By Mary Mungovan Senior Staff Reporter 
Over 800 students responded to the Student Life Council's survey on coed housing. alcohol and social life. SLC representative Ed Van Tassel announced yesterday after a meeting of the SLC. 
"The results are still being compiled at the Social Science Research and Training Lab, but they will be available following the next SLC meeting." Van Tassel explained. Over 1244 questionnaire were distributed to hall residents through their hall presidents, and additional questionnaires have been distributed off-campus at the Campus View Apartments. 
The questionnaire contained 69 items in three separate sections. Van Tassel and Marlyn Ritchie,. and Bonnie Katz of the Social Science Training and Research Lab formulated the "coed housing" and "alcohol" portions. John Reid and the Committee on Campus Life composed the section on "social life". 
next year," he stated. 
Professor Michael J. Crowe of the Rules and Regulations Commit­tee explained a revision of the University Disciplinary Code which was passed by the SLC. According to the student manual, du Lac, a student can appeal to the Univers­ity Board of Appeals by claiming innocence and providing new evid­ence. 
Under the new revision, Crowe stated, "a student can now make a direct for clemency to University President Fr. Hesburgh without first going through the Appeals Board, provided he admits his guilt." 
Bro. Just Paczesny, chairman of the Off-Campus and Community Relations Committee, outlined a letter that will be sent to off-camp­us students dealing with new zoning proposals. 
Student Body President Byrne introduced Peter Haley, newly elected south quad representative, and announced that Mike Gassman and the newly elected representat­ives will take on their new duties on April 15. 

Compiled by SLC 
Students respond to survey 

"The Planning and Policy Com­mittee initiated the survey in compliance with a recommendation from the Committee on Undergra­duate Life (COUL) that we investi­gate the advisability. need, prob­lems and advantages of coed housmg at Notre Dame," John DiPietro, chairman of the Planning and Policy Committee, explained. 
The committee is preparing a report with specific proposals for the implementation of coed hous­ing with the help of an ad hoc committee of community members including students, rectors, hous­ing and administrative personnel, according to DiPietro. 
"This report will combine the results of the student survey with a survey taken by John Salveson of the c~d housing situation at eight colleges and universities including Georgetown, Princeton, Boston Co­llege, Cornell and Yale," he contin­ued. 
•'The Board of Trustees will receive the report by the end of the year, but being realistic, I don't think we'll have coed housing by 
untversity of notre dome sf mary's college 
Vol. X, No. 103 presidential field with a victory over Alabama Gov. George C.
For '76-77 Observer Wallace. 
Ford pronounced himself over­joyed, but said it wasn't time to talk about eliminating Reagan from the
O'Neil announces new staff 
Recently elected Obsencr Editor in-Chief Tom O'Neil has announc­ed the selection of the Editorial Board for the 1976-77 year.· The new staff will take over for current Editor-in-Chief Terry Keeney and his staff after the upcoming March break. 

TOM O'NEIL 
Dan Sanchez, a junior from San Antonio, Texas will replace gradu­ating senior AI Rutherford as Managing Editor. Working with Sanct"-ez as Assistant Managing Editor will be Chris Smith, a senior from Denver, Colorado. Their duties will include the overall supervision of the production as­pect of the paper. 
Sanchez last served as senior night editor, while Smith served as Photography Editor for the past two years. 
Gregg Bangs will replace senior Jim Eder in the positon of Execut­ive Editor. Bangs, a junior from Setauket, New York, will supervise the writing aspects of the paper. He will also be in charge of workshops and supplements. This year Bangs served in the positions of associate features editor, copy reader and senior staff reporter. 
Val Zurblis, a juniorfrom Mart­insvill, New Jersey, will also serve as an Executive Editor. She will be in charge of personnel as well as working with Bangs on supplement. Zurblis last served as senior staff fall to incoming News Editors Kathy Mills and Mary Reher. Mills, a sophomore from Bergen­field, New Jersey has served as senior staff reporter and copy reader the past year, while Reher. a junior from Downers Grove, Illinois, has served as a senior staff reporter. 
reporter,  night  editor,  and  wire  
editor.  
Her duties  as  wire ~ditor  will  

The new position of Executive News Editorwas created to allow the addition of two subordinate news editors who will work under the executive news editor. 
Present News Editor, Bob Mader will move up to this position of Executive News Editor. Mader, a junior from Fairview Park, Ohio, will be in charge of the overall running of the news department. Working with Mader will be a sophomore from Richmond Heights Missouri, Maureen Flynn. Flynn will retain her present position of Campus Editor. In the past she has served as senior staff reporter . assistant night editor, and day editor. 

AL RUTHERFORD 
Junior Don Reimer from Hamil­ton, Ohio, will replace graduating senior Ken Bradford as Copy Editor. Reimer will oversee the work of his copyreading staff. This past year, Reimer served in the capacities of senior staff reporter and copy reader. 
MIAMI (AP) --President Ford won the Florida presidential pri­mary election Tuesday night, deal­ing a major setback to Republican challenger Ronald Reagan. Geor­gia's Jimmy Carter vaulted back to 
Wednesday, March 10, 1976 the vanguard of the Democratic 
contest for the GOP presidential Taking Mary Janca's place at St. nomination. Mary's Editor will be Marti Hogan, 
And Carter said he saw no a sophomore from Orem, Utah. candidate ahead of him now in the Hogan will supervise the overall Democratic race. He said he didn't 
input of stories coming in from St. think the Florida outcome dealt 
Mary's. Hogan served as a night Wallace out of the presidential editor, staff reporter and Assistant campaign--even though the Ala­St. Mary's Fditor this year. bama governor was beaten in his 
(continued on page 10) own neighborhood. 
Sen. Henry M. Jackson of Wash­ington, running third among the

.. Democrats, said he was satisfied to wait and fight another day, con­tending that Carter can't win the big industrial states the Democrats will need in November. 
That will be tested later. The arithmetic of Florida made Reagan, Wallace and Jackson a company of losers. 
With nearly 90 percent of the precincts counted, Ford was gain­,..,, ing 53 percent of the Republican
1 
vote, Reagan 47 percent. It was 
TERRY KEENEY 
their second direct test, and Ford has won both. Campus dealers Carter was polling 35 percent of the Democratic vote, Wallace 32 to be arrested percent, Jackson 22 percent. "I'm just overjoyed with the 
The Notre Dam;.: Dean of Stu-results,'' said Ford, emerging from dents disclosed yesterday that local a speechmaking appearance at a law enforcement agencies are plan-Washington hotel. ning to issue affidavits soon for the But he said he wouldn't get into arrest of students involved in the question of whether Reagan campus drug traffic. should quit the campaign. He said 
James Roemer told the Observer Tuesday was the night to thank his that he has learned th~' tt••dercov_~r. __ people for support, not to talk agents have purchased drugs from about his rival. Notre D~me students and that Ford's campaign manager, anests w11l probably be made when Howard H. Callaway, said in .ne affidaviis are finally issued. 
The local agents were working entirely on their own and received no help from University personnel in the drug investigations, Roemer noted. He added that the Univer­sity will not participate in any of the arrests. 
Roemer expressed his concern that Notre Dame students are apparently involved in the drug traffic. He said it would be wise for such students to realize that under­cover agents from local agencies are constantly attempting .to buy drugs from campus dealers. 
Washington that he would not speculate on Reagan's political future after primary wins for the President in New Hampshire, Mas­sachusetts and now Florida. Reagan campaigned only in New Hampshire and Florida. 
"It is not up to me to say what Mr. Reagan will do," Callaway said. "We intend to go right on through every primary." 
Callway also said he wasn't ruling out the possibility Reagan might ultimately become the vice presidential nominee on a Ford ticket. But he said vice presidential decisions won't be made until convention time. 
The jubilant Carter said in Orlando that his victory was hard to believe. He said he's ready for his next test, in the Illinois primary next Tuesday. Wallace was cam­paigning there on election day. 
So was Reagan, in Rock Island, 
Ill. 
"I think it's obvious our success here in Florida against Gov. W at­lace, who carried the state in 1972, is a major step forward for us, .. said Carter. He won after a year-long campaign and more than 30 vote-hunting missions to Flori­da. 
Wall ace suffered a setback that could be his undoing as a national candidate, for it was an area that had been part of his political base. From the South, he had reached out to campaign in alien territory to the North. 
But coupled with his third-place finish in the Massachusetts pri­mary last Tuesday, the defeat seemed to leave him without a political place to call his own. 
Jackson won the Massachusetts primary with 23 percent of the vote; Carter had run fourth there. The up and down course of the Carter campaign, which began with victor­ies in New Hampshire and Ver­mont, showed what can happen in a campaign through 31 presidential primary elections. Florida's was the fourth. 
Inside: Observer supplement on Coeducation-­four years later 
****************************** 
This is the last issue of the Observer before spring break. The next iss·ue will be March 23. 
.. 
' I 
. ' .. the observer Wednesday, March 10, 1976 
~--Neu,s Briefs--......_. 
InternationaltReds infiltrating 
SALISBURY, RHODESIA--Rhodesia reported escalating infiltra­
tion by Soviet-trained guerrillas along the entire length of its 
800-mile border with Mozambique and said it was strengthening its 
counter-insurgency forces. 
The white minority government has beefed up anti-guerrilla units by 60 percent since January and settled nearly 200,000 African tribesman along the frontier to resist infiltration. 
I~================~~===National 
Explosion traps miners 
WHITESBURG, KY.·-An explosion trapped 15 miners in a 
Southeast Kentucky coal mine Tuesday afternoon, but it wasn't 
known if the men were alive or dead. 
Rescue workers were reported deep in the Scotia Coal Co. mine, 10 miles north of here, where the explosion occurred. About 150 men had been working in the mine. All the others made it out safelv. 
L--.On Campus Today----.... 
9 a,m. 
11:30 a.m. 
I"'"p.m. 
I 
12:15 p.m. 
2:00 p.m. 
30 p.m. 
30 p.m. 
I 
·30 p.m. 5:15p.m. l :00 p.m. 
I 
7:00 p.m. 
7:00 p.m. 
7 :30 p.m. 
8:15p.m. 
9:30p.m. Midnight 12 :15 a.m. 
bicentennial festival, "moral aspirations in american literature by professor alfred kazin, city university of new york. CCE 
bicentennial  festival,  reception,  n.d.  and  s.m.c.  student  
poetry reading. CCE  
seminar,  "mediators  of  delayed  hypersensitivity"  by  dr.  

samuel salvin, drpt. of microbiology, university of pittsburgh medical school. room 278, galvin auditorium 
mass, lenten mass, Iafortune ballroom 
bicentennial festival, "science, technology and american goals" by professor i. bernard cohen, harvard university. CCE 
seminar, "the aerodynamic fluctuating pressures of trailing edges" by william k. blake, department of navy, naval ship research and development center, bethesda, maryland. room 303, engineering building 
bicentennial festival, open house, architecture building 
colloquium, "charm particles--plot thickens" by dr. j. rosner, university of minnesota. room 111, nieuwland science hall 
vespers, evensong vespers, log chapel 
auditions, "who's afraid of virginia woolf?" by edward albee, conducted by n.d. lab theatre. main auditorium 
auditions, "beyond the horizon" by eugene o'neill, conducted by n.d. lab theatre. washington hall 
lecture, "integrated disciplines in petroleum exploration" by dr. daniel a. busch, american association of petroleum geologists distinguished lecturer. room 101, earth sciences building 
hockey playoffs, western collegiate hockey association playoffs. applications are now being accepted. home ice to be determined by weekend game. ACC 
bicentennial festival, n.d. and s.m.c. choral ensembles, samuel adler premiere. o'laughlin auditorium 
talk, dan devine, Stanford-Keenan Chapel 
album hour, wsnd. 640 am 
nocturn night flight, the best in progressive rock, jazz and blues on wsnd 88.9 fm. tonight's host: tom paulius. 88.9 fm 
Mardi Gras top raffle prize still unclaimed by winner 
The Mardi Gras committee is having trouble getting rid of its top 1 ..1ii'. 1rize, a 1976 Chevrolet Nova. 
Spellman said, "but if Floyd is not found, the $3000 which would have bought the car will be donated to charity with the rest of the Mardi Gras profits. 
The committee has also been unable to find the identity of the student who sold Floyd the tickent, although the ticket was among the numerical series assigned to Zahm Hall. 
Spellman said the committee feels badly about not being able to find Floyd and said that anyone who may have sold· the ticket, or who knows of Floyd's whereabouts, should contact Spellman at 234­6352. 
********************************* 
: THE HOUSE OF SOMETHING BETTER# * * 
*~ HHelp increase your stamina and endurance with *# 
: high protien and vitamin # * * 
~ supplements from Joe Weider, # * * 
: Bob Hoffman, and Viobin" # 
* *
* * 
*# 1612 S. MICHIGAN *# # SOUTH BEND Phone 287-5310 : 
* *
* * 
********************************* 
SMC basketball to play in tourney as state runner-ups 
Last week was a pretty good week for the St. Mary's basketball team. 
They were featured in a huge story in the Chicago Tribune. And then they placed second in the state tournament in Terre Haute. The women whooped it up Saturday night, thinking that their season had come to a successful end. 
It had--at least, until the team was invited to participate in an eight-team tournament in River Forest, Illinois. Competing in the tournament will be the state champs from Indiana, Wisconsin, Ohio, Illinois and West Virginia. 
St. Mary's will open the tour­nament on Friday at 2 p.m. against the second-place team from Wis­consin. Coach Monica Doyle, who prides herself on her team's quick­ness and defense, noted, "Now this team is only one step away from national competition.'' 
As a freshman guard Diane Kluka said, "We have everything to win and nothing to lose." 
St. tviary's went into the state tournament as a relative unknown. As they entered the gymnasium Friday night in Terre Haute, they were asked if the team was composed of nuns. 
But St. Mary's showed that they could win by swamping Franklin College. 63-42, behind Kathleen Cullen's 14 points. 
Goshen College was not as cooperative on Saturday, however, 
and  the  "Smick  Chicks"  lost  a  
Iaugher,  49-38.  Goshen  had  a  
21-point lead  in  the  second  half  

before SMC crept back within eight with six minutes remaining. Meg Holland led the team in defeat with ten points. 
In the game for second place, SMC overtook Marions College, 66-58, behind Cullen's season-high 26 points. 
~The Observer 
f .~ight Editor: Winifred Pooh 
Hogan 
Assistant Night Editor: Debo­
rah "T-bird" Dahrling 
layout Staff: M. Leigh Tuna­kan, Karen L. Chiames, Paul 
Schappler, Julie R. Pel Iettiere 
Day Editor: Marianne Schulte 
Copy Reader: Kenneth 'Stud' 
Bradford 
Editorials: James Commyn, 
James Stevens 
Features: Gregory Bernet 
Bangs 
Sports: William Brink, Frede­
rick Herbst, Thomas Powanda 
Typists: Martha Fanning, 
Zenon Bidzinski, Hank "10-5" 
VanDyke 
Night Controller: David Rust 
Ad layout: Thomas Walrath, 
Sally Dentz 
The Observer is published Monday through Friday and lrWekly during the SUI1'111er session, except during the exams and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of the lkliv. of Notre Dame and St. Mi!ry's College. SubscriptionS may be purchased tor S18 ($10 per semester> fro-n The Observer, Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46.556. Sealnd Class postage paid, Notre Dame, IN 46556. 

·~ 
8 
~~~-o-~..r..r-ooooccoooo 
riCk===>~~,.~c::P=E::::M~JC:,. E=S><~c::k="l
IA=L=>><ul'cR=A~~~c::" 
'~ f~g~ ~6~~Z  ~  
~ Dri~~~~~~~o~~o~~~nly  ~  
n $129/week plus gas  n  
U No charge for first 1000 miles  U  
n Renter nwst pay for gas. Can; DDist be picked and  ~  
U returned to South Bend Hertz office, 710 N. Niles Ave. n Models will be rented on a "fli'St come, fll'St served"  
U basis. Call 232-5871  ~  
~ HERTZ RENT -A-CAR  ~  
n "The Superstar in Rent-A-Car"  n  
U 710 N. Niles Ave., South Bend  U  
b)()(==>~>ck >C)(  
Acareer in law­ 
WithOUt laW SChOOl.  
What can you do w1th only a bachelor's degree?  
Now there is a way to bridge the gap between an  
undergraduate educat1on and a challenging. respon­ 
Sible career. The Lawyer's Assistant is able to do  
work traditionally done by lawyers.  
Three months of intensive training can g1ve you  
the skills -the courses are taught by lawyers. You  
choose one of the seven courses offered --choose  
the c1ty in which you want to work  
Since 1970. The Institute for Paralegal Train1ng  
has placed more than 1200 grnduates 1n law f1rrns.  
banks. and corporations in over 75 cities.  
If you are a senior of high ac<.~dernic standmg and  
are interested in a career as a Lawyer's Ass1stant.  
we·d l1ke to rneet you.  
Contact your placement office for an interview with  
our representative.  
We will v1sit your campus on  
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 24  
The Institute for  
Paralegal Training  
:'3t:> Suuth 1lth Slrt•Pt Ptlll<!dt>lphiil Pennsylvanr<t 19103  
(<'15) 732-6600  


. ..'~ .. ~, ~ :~ 
'•,".·..•-.. <~ .• _... ._ ' ... l •.··,.­
',. t\ ,··'1"·:_:,; ~( __._~.J ~· :' ·• l .. ., a • -... ' • 
\ . 
Pipes Papers 
~·Etc. 
newstand and qeneral store 113 w. monroe st. 



~ 

129 north michigan street, downtown south bend 
OPENING THE WEEK OF MARCH 15 
Appearing soon: Sugarfoot, Max Bunster & others Fri., Sat., March 19, 20 The Bluegrass Alliance Thur., Fri., Sat., M•rch 25, 28, 27 Collegiate Jazz Festival Fri., S•t., April 2, 3 
c;~ANO OPEN1NC1 CELE~~TION~ A?RlL Cf,10 
·with the string band of Martin, 3ogen, and the Armstrongs featuring blues harpist Big Walter Horton Sat., April 9 
~EAL .M.USIC~ t'OOD .AND DRlN~. 
Homemade Food, Popular Prices & No Computers 
-



i ... -••! !' ,Jr "'"J •• .. (' • .. : 
'" f 
Suggested at HPC meeting Wednesday, March 10, 1976 the observer 3 
......COIJitrtratefnities help lacking NO social life? 
by Phil Cackley Senior Staff Reporter 
Section leaders from several resi­
dence halls caned for the creation of fraternities on campus to allevi­ate the lack of social activities at Notre Dame, Elton Johnson, HPC . chairman, said at last night's meeting of the Han President's 
Council in Sorin Hall. 
The suggestion was made by a 
group of about 15 section leaders at 
a "Round Table" discussion meet­
ing Monday night. The Round 
Table meetings are sponsored by 
the HPC twice a month for the 
purpose of getting feedback from a 
source closer to the students. 
Monday's meeting was the fourth 
since the program's inception. 
The HPC last night also awarded 
the November Rockne trophy to 
Howard Hall and Johnson an­
nounced that elections for the 
chairmanship of the HPC will take 
place in four weeks. 
Johnson told the presidents that section leaders present at the round Table meeting Monday night complained that the residence hans do little to provide social activities for students and that ·there are few other centers of social life on campus. 
This lack in the residence halls forces students to go off campus or up to Michigan for social life, the section leaders said. Johnson pointed out last night that hall councils can only sponsor so many events before they run out of ideas and begin to repeat themselves. 
The section leaders proposed that the HPC make a comparative study of an average residence hall at Notre Dame and an average fraternity on a similar college campus elsewhere. If the ND hall did not compare well with the fraternity, the section leaders said the HPC should ask the Adminis­tration to bring fraternities on campus. 

Elton johnson at HPC meeting last night. [Photo by Paul Clevenger] 
Some of the hall presidents present at last night's HPC meet­ing asked whether the University would allow the creation of fraterni­ties on campus. Others said this year's scarcity of social activities could clear up next year with the hopeful passage of an 18-or 19-year old drinking bill. 
Johnson also reported that the section leaders proposed that a newsletter be sent to Alumni Clubs around the country to inform them ments to the Student Government constitution which will be suggest­ed to Student ·Body President Mike Gassman at a meeting in the future. 
Johnson said the amendments would help to correlate features from both the new Student Govern­ment and HPC constitutions and improve communications and rela­tion 
The proposed changes included: a student board to review Student Government effectiveness, the at­tendance ofthe SBP or his repre­sentative at HPC meetings once a month, a report by the SBP to the HPC explaining the appointment and actions of the new Student Director, and the use of the newly-created public relations of­fice by both Student Government and the HPC, to improve efficiency in this area. 
of the student view of problems on cam pus. The section leaders hoped 
f-WHYPAY50cONC~PUS?l 
the alumni would be able to apply pressure to the Administration 
t 
"from the top" and achieve results on student problems. t 
Rockne award goes to Howard t The Rockne Trophy for Novem­
t
ber was awarded last night to Howard Hall for its excellence in 
t
hall activities. Joanne O'Rourke, HPC secretary, cited Howard for ·t organizing a number of parties for hall members and the initiation of t four ·hall athletic activities which 
t 
involved over 100 students. Chris Bogan, newly-elected Howard t president, accepted the award. 
t
The award is presented monthly 
ALL CIGARETTES 38¢ PACK+ TAX f 
CARTONS 85 mm $3.49 plus tax f CARTONS 100 m~ $3.59_ plus tax f WE ALSO CARRY THE FOLLOWING t HARD TO FIND SMOKES f 
Gauloises Caporal .. $.60 pack f La Corona Whiffs !1.15 pack 
f 
Baikal Sobraine $ .95 pack 
Getain Filters $ .60 pack t 
MAR MAIN PHAR\1\ACY t 
to the hall which sponsors the largest number of successful activi­
L-~~~~~~~~~l~~~~-J ties with the largest scope. The award was initiated by the HPC this year to encourage hall activi­ties. 
Johnson announced the election for next year's HPC chairmanship which will take place in four weeks. 
He urged those present to think about applying for the position. In other business, the HPC 
Saga requests 
Fine German Food and Draft Beer
return of dishes 
by Brigid Rafferty Our Speciality Staff Reporter 
In an effort to replace the Dining Hall's missing china and silverware 
Hans Hnus 
St. Mary's Food Committee has placed collection boxes in each of 2803 Suuth Mich1gan Street Phone 291-552;
the dorms for students who have 
"borrowed" dishes Cluring the 
Gem;dn FoQa Our Specialty
year. 
Created WJih l."d Won,-t Atmosphere. SpecializingThe Food Committee is also in German df"ld A.merican Foods. posting signs in the dorms and on tables to bring the cost of each item to the students' attention. "They are rather startling costs," stated 
• South Bend's Finest Banquet Rooi'T'ti
Charlie Flaim, manager of Saga 
The Alpme & Bavarian RoomsFood Service. "Replacement ex­Open lO:.JO a.m. to 10:30 P.m.-Closed Sundays and 1-iolldays 


penses between breaking and re­placement of dishes will run $8000­$9000 for this year. Some students may have four or five pieces in their rooms. With an average cost of one dollar and up for each piece of china, it really adds up." 
"I go through the supply of dishes at least twice a year, and set the par level in September. If we don't have enough a few months later, I have to order some more. But now, the minimum replace­ment time of china is at least 3 months," he said. 
Flaim noted that the program for returning dishes will be going on until the end of the semester, wtth an emphasis on the students not taking things in the future. "The importance of this has to be brought to their attention," he said. "It will only be as good as the kids make it. We get a substantial amount of dishes back in May, when the dorms are cleaned, but the problem is now. We're responsible for getting the equip­ment for eating, but we need the cooperation of all the students.' • 
HESEARCH 
FREE CA TALWG! 
Write or call for your copy of our latest catalog of over 5,000 re­search studies. These studies are designed to HELP YOU IN THE PREPARATION of: 
• Research Papers 
• 
Essays • Case Studies 

• 
Speeches • Book Reviews WE ALSO DO CUSTOM WRITING 


MINUTE RESEARCH 1360 N. Sandburg, lt1602 Chicago. Illinois 60610 
312-337-2704 
Tom McMahon General Agent 

, 

Karen Wentland Agent 

Diane ong Agent· 
'Tearafter ,·ear" Isen1ester·after sernester" the College Master frorn Fidelity 
Union Life lias heen the nu,st acceptt'tl" rnnst popular plan on carnpuses all o\·cr Arncrira. 
Find nut why.
• 
Call the Fidelih· lJnion (~ollt'gc Mast'-"· 
..
rield Assot~iatc 111 ~·our area: 
1005 E. LaSalle 
South Bend. Ind. Phone 287-2327 
·~ 
(()llc~c;\ltl~lcr 
~ 


I 
3 

• 
Automatic thru-the-lens exposure control 

• 
PLUS ... total manual control option 

• 
Exposure "memory lock" 

• 
Control-center full-info viewfinder 

• 
Micro-touch shutter release 


FULL SYSTEM CAPABILITY WITH OVER 100 PROFESSIONAL COMPONENTS AND LENSES 
NOW ONLY 
$199.95 
COMPLETE WITH KONICA 50mm fI1.7AUTO LENS 
Cavalier Camera u.s. 31 At Bell Road Niles, Mi. 684-2640 
and SCOTTSDALE MALL 
i . ­
• 
>1. 1. • • ..S.• ~·
' . ...,. ~·' • ...: -< 


•. ' p f 
• • l;o • ~ , • 

The Observer 
an independent student newspaper 
Founded November 3, 1966 
The Observer is published by the students of the University EDITORI~L BOARD of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. It does not necessarily 
Terry Keeney Editor-in-Chief
reflect the policies of either institution. The news is reported 
AI Rutherford Managing Editor 
as accurately and objectively as possible. Editorials represent 
Jim Eder Executive Editor
the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Com­
Pat Hanifin 
Editorial Editor Bob Mader 
mentaries are the views of individual editors. Opinions, 
cartoons and regular columns express the views of their News Editor authors. Column space is available to all members of the Maureen Rynn ca,..,us Editor community, and letters are encouraged to promote the tree Mary Janca St. Mary's Editor expression of varying opinions on campus. 
Ken Bradford Copy Editor 
Val Zurblis Wire Editor Editorials: 28J-171S Ne.vs: 283-8661 Business: 283-7471 
Tom O'Neil FeaturH-Editor Business Manager Tom Modglin 
Bill Brink Sports Editor Advertising Manager Tom Whelan 
Dan Sanchez Senior Night Editor 
Wednesday, March 10, 1976 
P.O. Box Q 
Qp !•nI•0 n !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
Nashville Impressions 
__.__.iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiigregg bangs 
In several reviews and promos, "Nashville" was often called the movie ofthe Bicentennial. For many people, it was perplexing that the movie did not present anything associated with this nation's 200!h birthday---or what big business and the American capitalist system would want it to be. 
If they expected a story about America, they certainly received it. Somewhat different from what was expected, yes, but a story nonetheless. Perhaps one much more important than any Shell Bicentennial minute could ever give you. 
Nashville is a representative American city and music is its business, just as the car industry is Detroit's dollar maker. It is a metropolis with good and bad in its economic and social makeup. Director Robert Altman showed both of these elements in ,\\'\e movie. He didn't make any moral judgements--he just showed wnat he believed to be commonplace happenings in American society. 
Altman would focus in on members of the country music industry along with the good and bad that comes from them and to them. For instance, Ronnie Blakely plays a young singer who is manipulated by, and suffers a nervous breakdown at the hands of, an 
demands on our time and resources What is obvious is that the "understanding" boss, her husband. Henry Gibson is supposedly a we have, perhaps selfishly, refrain­anti-choice plank was railroaded in. super-patriot and leading citizen who can't stand any "longhairs"
Thank-you 
ed from engaging in the sort of Apparently they used the mock in his recording session. political activity needed to change convention to express their min­Altman zooms in on American society and shows it for what it is the oppressive conditions that con­ority views. worth. A seemingly insane British reporter looking to tell
Delegates 
tinue to exist at Notre Dame. "America's story" could have possibly been an amusing and
Thank God the Supreme Court has 
somewhat funny character except for the fact that her madcap and
Dear Editor: We believe any public discussion 
better judgement in these matters. 
We would like to address our of homosexuality, such as the inane reports often expose rather saddening facts about the USA. thanks to all the delegates at the interview recently published in the Her report about a junkyard almost sounds like a tribute to
Tim Mess America's waste.
Notre Dame Mock Convention held Observer, wilJ advance the struggle 
last week: against ignorance and prejudice. Her fanatic concern about the "stars" also points out an American fixation with people in the news, regardless of their true
The 1976 Mock National Political While we applaud Mr. de Ara­
Thanks nature. Perhaps the assasination points to this fact also. Instead of
Convention is over. Because of the gon's courage and forthrightness, 
murdering a third party candidate, the madman kilJer substitutes
great seriousness with which the we must, however, resist his Blakely for the candidate. Not as famous a person as the politico,delegates approached this activity, characterization of gay life as Dear Editor: but a name nonetheless.
it was a success. No amount of "whoJly promiscuous". If we are 
I would like to extend thanks 
work on the part of the executive to discover our identity as gay men from Sen. Humphrey and from Current sexual standards are also examined in the movie. Keith Carradine jaunts from bed to bed with seemingly no preference for 
committee could have insured it of and women, if our natural impulses myself to a11 those who made Sen. 
this outcome. For that reason, we and our social roles are ever to be Humphrey's nomination by the whom his female partner is. This is magnified in a scene with Lily Tomlin. Tomlin, married and mother of two, spends an evening in
would like to take this opportunity integrated, we must reject the Mock Convention possible. Espec­bed with Carradine. After making love and telling her his feelings to thank each and every one of you. negative self-image forced upon us ially to be thanked are Tim Hiniker, 
While this was a "mock" con­by society. The environment for her, Carradine is told by Tomlin that she must leave. As she fs
Rick Kresse, Harold Jara, Frank 
dressing, Carradine is seen on the phone looking for his next
vention, it was not a mockery. All created by the Gay Community of Faron, Chuck Wilson, the Black 
those who have attended a real Notre Dame, while far from perfect Caucus, and the Pennsylvania dele­"lover." Various other episodes point out the disintegration is no more or less promiscuous than evident in the institution of marriage. 
convention can attest to the great gation. 
any social environment found in What does this have to do with the Bicentennial? Plenty. As is a
degree of resemblance. If any­Jim Kresse common case with Americans, we have overindulged in and
thing, the debate on the platform straight society. The same can be commercialized something that could have once had somtwas carried out with an even more said of gay life in general. 
significant meaning. Uncle Sam and Betsy Ross are almost a~.
serious attitude than is usual. The It is not enought that we simply 
Impressed by
deadlock between candidates will admit, privately or publicly, we are popular with quick buck artists now as Santa Claus and the Easter Bunny. {Don't be surprised to see chocolate George Washington's
probably occur at the 1976 Demo­gay. We must discover ways to in your Easter Basket this April.)
de Aragon
cratic National Convention in New deal creatively with this aspect of 
York; Hubert Humphrey may our personalities or we will remain Dear Editor: True, the glorifying of our past is fine, to a point, but it seems emerge as the "compromise" can­the victims of hatred and ignorance I would like to address myself to embarrassing to constantly harp on a subject like "the winning of the west." This overemphasis on Amrican triumphs is to be
didate in much the same manner. Members of the Gay Community of Mr. de Aragon and say: 
Even though many of you may Notre Dame have found, through expected though, for it often covers up American injustices that
I read today with great interest 
not be whole-heartedly pleased contact with other gay people, the were responsible for these American triumphs. It might have been 
your interview with the Observer. 
with the outcome, everyone must means to realize a fu1ler humanity the manifest destiny that was responsible for our westward
While I myself am straight, I am 
agree that it was a great learning in ourselves. We have also found much intrigued and sympathetic expansion was "God-inspired." but in today's terms what we did to that gay life can be as fulfiHing as the Indians and Mexicans is known as "imperialism."
experience. We wish, therefore, to 
with the position you find yourself
thank Student Government and we are willing to make it. Shades of both honorable history and dark deeds aside,
in. There is, as you noted, a 
the Student Union for the provision Gay Community of Notre Dame seemingly un-Christian stance in Nashville makes us come to grips with the present and hopefully of funds for this event. Special ponder what lies ahead for us in the future. The morals, or lack
the Catholic Church, and such a 
thanks must also be given to Jim thereof, of the participants are representative of us all, as the city is 
stance can only be changed from 
Hammes Oldsmobile for their of other Americans towns. Similar to Nietzsche's doubting of the
within, by members of the Church. 
$1500 grant. Anti Choices· I am much impressed with your religious conviction of nineteenth century Germans, Altman seems to doubt the twentieth century American way of life. This is
Thanks are due, of course, to commitment ot the love of Christi­
perhap·s what scared people who were looking for the great
each and every one of you who anity, which is , as your describe it, 
helped us run the event. It is not Dear Editor, "a commitment of total love." Amertcan propaganda epic. It offers no security in our country necessary to mention your names, ourselves; in fact it threatens what little security the average
Such an offering of oneself to for the list is quite long. Special The Pro-Life or should we say Christianity (thru other people, the American has left. recognition must be given to Dr. Anti-Choice plank was adopted at Christian community) is to be open The prospect of analysing where we stand is desparately needed. Charles Rice for his aid to our the Mock Convention. The people to all men. Christianity also cans In a country so uncertain about its government, its moral stance and parliamentarian at 2:15 a.m. dur­supporting the anti-choice plank for one to be giving with no regard its overaU place in the world, a great deal of soul-searching on both ing the platform debate. like to call themselves Pro-lifers. for return, that is, a selflessness of the individual and collective level is imperative. 
Finally, it is impossible to mea­This term in itself is nebulous for sorts. Unfortunately, by putting An awareness of where we are going should be worked on for the sure the debt we owe to Dr. Paul C. who isn't Pro-Life? By using this oneself in a giving position is also sake of avoiding future Watergates and making Americans more Bartholomew, who initiated this term (Pro-Life) they would like to to open oneself for attack, especial­conscious ofthemselves and their country. How? By seeing movies event in 1940. imply that anyone supporting an ly in cases such as yours. such as NashvUie that point out the deficiencies and hypocracies of Everyone, thank you. opposing view is anti-life. This I wish you luck in your struggle, 1 American life and dare us to do something about them. By implication is totally wrong as is also recognize that your have been attending such programs as '• American: A Radical Perspective,''Sincerely, there title -Pro-life. A more active, at least internaUy, long or the current program of Bicentennial events. These events and Nancy A. Brenner and VInce appropriate title would be anti­before today. I hope that you movies wilJ hopefu11y raise questions in people's minds about where Moschella, Co-Chairpersons choice. For this anti-choice view continue to deny categories by we are going with this society of ours. The real spirit of the 
denies the right of another to hold living your life and loving it. Bicentennial deserves nothing less. an opposin~ view in a moral issue. Mark Grove 
Gays React 
Dear Editor: 
For the past two years, members of the Gay Community of Notre Dame have striven to deal constru­ctively with aspects for our person­alities which society has tradition­ally demanded we repress. To accomplish this we first felt it necessary to create an environment in which men and women could, by sharing and enlarging their experi­ences of what it means to be homosexual, give support to each other. 
Aware that maintaining such a group without official university sanction would place considerable 
DOONESBURY-
j !. o  ONe&A6/IIN ~ BAILEY HAMM&I?£[) fl)M& Ill~ K£Y M6lJMENT: MINI? CONTR!Jt. WA5 BEHINO PATTY5 ANTI-· SOCIA/... BaiAVIOR IN 71-IE HIB&RNIA BANI<.  
~  

P/?{}5Ga/lJR BRfJWN/Nfi WA5 CLEA!t..~Y INCREPfJLf)(}S. 'BI?AINIAIASHIN6?," He t..tiT£R SCUFW 70 ~TCRSJ "!JRIPPIN(J FAUCETS? cMoNI HE~ RANCt, 5TtPHEI'I /AI~ AO­
MIT5 PATTY HAS AL.WA>r; KNJP/N
{ -~ 
MfANUIH!~ HleW HIMSW II/AS 
PR£SitJIN6 OVeR. A HASTILY CA/.J.EO 
PR£55 (f)Nfa?ENCE TOPAY 7lJ {)ISCIJ5S HIS FORM&R. Lire /A/177-f 
~ AS ~V~AUP lN H/5 
NW BOOK, "tv6E/J'S-CYE VIetti.'' 
~ 
by Garry Trudeau 
ANO '"HN... 01/UJ-~ 
LIKe... SHe REACH&!? ~ 01/T ANO 70VCII&I? ~ 
MY PRiNCETON 
WIIR.M-IJP JACKET.. 
/ 
--~ 
********************************* ·­

' . 
.
..'.
' 
... 
Wednesday, March 10, 1976 the observer· 
.5 

Four years later: Time to set new goals 
Editor's Note: It is spring, 1976, and the first 
complete class to enter Notre Dame as a 
coeducational institution will soon graduate. It 
is spring, 1976, and time for a formal evaluation 
of the status of coeducation at Notre Dame, as 
recommended in the 1972 report of the Advisory 
Committee on Coeducation. 
It is four years since University President Fr. Theodore Hesburgh said that ''the task of coeducation is broader than some of us may have thought, and the implications are more far-reaching." In his "Musings on Going Coed," published in the spring of 1972, Hesburgh told the University community that "fundamentally, the healthy integration of women into Notre Dame depends on attitudinal adjustments and processes of communication." 
"This means," Hesburgh warned then, "that all of us connected with this traditionally male University are going to have to take a long, hard and perhaps critical look at our assumptions and presuppositions.'' 
This spring a committee will be appointed by the Office of the Provost to take a long, hard and definitely critical look at coeducation at Notre Dame. Sr. Miriam Jones, assistant to the provost, said she has already consulted with rectors, members of the Advisory Council of Women Students and others about areas of concern to them. 
Jones said she will submit a list of recommendations to University Provost Fr. James T. Burtchaell, "who, presumably, would appoint the committee. I would certainly think the committee would include several students, both men and women,'' Jones stated. 
Burtchaell could not be contacted for confirma­
tion 
"When you look back you really know we've 
come a long way," Jones added, in response to 
an article in the Notre Dame Magazine of April, 
1972. 
The article informed readers that ''some are 
even saying that women could participate in the 
required physical education courses for first­
year students, avail themselves of career 
counseling and participate in intramural athle­
tics...Meanwhile, male chauvinist cynics on 
campus are wondering if Badin's barber shop 
will be converted into a beauty salon.'' 
The coeducation evaluation committee will 
have far more important aspects of Notre Dame 
life to study, though. Admissions policies, 
housing, athletics and social life are only four 
broad topic areas of the greatest concern to the 
future of coeducation. 
It will be the responsibility of the committee 
to delve beyond the cattle drives, jock raids and 
dining hall beauty ratings to the heart of the 
frustrations of Notre Dame coeducational life. 
Then after the committee has studied, discussed and reached its conclusions, it will be responsible for proposing ways to solve or alleviate the frustrations. 
The last four years of coeducation have affected every aspect of University life: housing, academics, relations with St. Mary's College, sports and social relationships. In this supplement, the Observer staff has attempted to touch on some of the major aspects of coeducation. 
Looking back: the first year atNotre Dame 
By Jim Commyn Staff Reporter 
Women will like it at Notre Dame. 
Men have. 
Those lines appeared as part of an 
advertisement in the Notre Dame Magaz­ine early in the spring of 1972 announcing the coming of coeducation to Notre Dame after 130 years. During the summer of 1972 the magazine conducted a survey among several of the 355 women who would enter the University for the first time as undergraduates. Their initial responses show that one of the main reasons for choosing Notre Dame was a first-rate education. Janet Waltman, a transfer from St. Mary's, expressed her viewpoint to Notre Dame Magazine by saying, "Don't call me a coed, I am a student. I'm at Notre Dame to acquire an education, not to serve the ego of Notre Dame. I am serving 
myself, not statisticians. or the male female ratio, or socially deprived male students. I want to be taken seriously; I'm planning a career. not a wedding.", 
What was the first year of coedJcation like at Notre Dame? Sr. Jane Pitz, of Campus Ministry. and then Assistant rectress of Walsh Hall, called the first year an "adventure." Pitz summarized the year by saying she felt the whole world was watching, "waiting for women to jump into the main stream. All we could see was a puddle." 
Initial reactions 
Loretta Castaldi, a Farley RA who lived in W a Ish the first year, knew how hard the first year would be after coming to Notre Dame during the summer for the Fresh­man Placement Tests. ''I was walking toward the old business building when two men behind me asked in a very audible whisper if I was 'one of them?' I wasn't quite sure how to interpret that,'' she said. 
Castaldi went on to say she generally 
disliked her first two years at Notre Dame. 
''The world has been coed for several years 
now," she explained. "For me this was a 
whole new thing." She pointed out that 
because of her coeducational high school 
background she found Notre Dame's 
atmosphere "totally foreign and di~~ul~ to 
adjust to. I think I can grasp what tt ts hke 
being a member of a minority a little better 
now " Castaldi said. "The people wanted 
you ' to feel welcome, but weren't but 
weren't sure how to.'' 
Kathy Gwynn, a Lewis Hall RA who 
lived in Walsh the first year, explained her 
initial impressions of coeducation this way. 
"The whole thing of coeducation hit me on 
registration day while I was walking back 
from Stepan toward Walsh," she said. "I 
turned around and there were these three 
cameramen from CBS following me a­
round. They explained that they had 
followed me through the entire registration 
process. I was completely unaware of them," Gwynn added. "They interviewed me and one of their first questions was, 'Did you come to Notre Dame because of the guys?"' 
'Academic eggheads' 
Probably the most common phrase the women heard the first year academically was "let's have the woman's point of view, Miss X.'' 
''Sometimes I think some of the profes­sors tried a bit too hard," stated Sr. John Miriam Jones Assistant to the Provost. "In an effort to include women as much as possible they ended up spotlighting 
them.'' 
Ellen Freeman, a first-year Walsh resident, commented that she was the only woman in two of her classes freshman year. "You immediately notice the numbers," she said. "I remember walking into one class and being greeted by the professor 'You must be Ellen'." 
Former Badin resident Patty Culler also noted that in most cases Professor Emil Hofman seated all the women in his chemistry classes the first year on the aisles in the Engineering Auditorium. 
"I remember one of my initial images 
of the Notre Dame women," Culler addid. 
"I pictured them looking very studious 
with glasses and their hair tied up in a bun 
all the time." 
Gwynn added that she sometimes thought the first women at Notre Dame were picked primarily for their brains. "Too often, many of us thought we were here solely for academic purposes and that the St. Mary's women were always referred to as the beauties," she commen­ted. 
The women were often described as 
"eggheads" the first year. The 125 
freshman women were selected from O\•er 
1100 applicants. "You can get pretty· 
selective then," Jones said. 
Statistics compiled for the first year 
indicate that the grade point average of the 
first Notre Dame women during the Fall 
semester was 3.12, slightly above the 
University cumulative G.P.A. of 2.94. A 
survey compiled by Notre Dame Magazine 
in the spring of 1973, one year after 
coeducation began, found that the ratio of 
deficiency slips among women was one in 
seven. This also differed slightly from the 
University average of one deficiency report 
among five students. 
Hall life 
Of the 355 women who came the first 
year, 125 were freshmen. The women 
lived in two halls on the South Quad, Badin 
and Walsh. 
Even before the women arrived, admini­
strators and staffs searched hard to find 
some kind of foundation that would offer a 
smooth transition in accommodating them. 
''The challenge for us .is establishing a tradition and setting our own precedent. 
We have no example to follow. We are the .first in line," Joann Szafran, the first rectress of Walsh, stated early the ftrst year in an Observer interview. 
. . 
"Generally it was a quiet year," Pitz stated. "Doors usually were closed because most seemed afraid of guys wandering through to survey the country­side," she added. Noise became a problem, it seemed, when everyone was in 
the  hall  at  once.  "That's  when  the  
complaints  were  voiced,  anyway,''  she  
said.  

Castaldi noted that the upperclassmen in the dorms were just as new to Notre Dame as the freshmen were. "We really needed them then," she said, "some sort of stable influence. With the RA'sjust as new as we were, there was really no female on campus that you could go to and talk to." 
Badin resident Patty Culler described the situation in her hall a bit differently. "Badin was different than Walsh; it was much smaller, and seemed to have a more unified spirit," she said. "I knew everyone by the end of the year.'' Culler felt the nature of the rooms had much to do with it. "Since many of the rooms were singles and everyone was new, you were practically forced to come out and meet other people." 
The largest problem concerning hall life came in the spring of 1973 when Farley and Breen-Phillips were designated the third and fourth female residence halls. In an effort to ease the transition for incoming students and facilitate bringing the coedu­

Workmen fixing up Walsh Hall during the Summer of '72 in preparation for Notre Dames first women, due to arrive that same Fall. 
cational process to the North Quad, women from both Walsh and Badin were request­ed to move to the new dorms. There was a lot of bitterness toward the administration concerning their decision, all those inter­viewed said. 
Some of the men interviewed said that the South Quad has been coed for four years while the North has only been that way for three years. "It never seemed like I was going to to a coed school until I was forced to move to the South Quad mv 
sophomore year," said senior Frank Ten­nant. 
''Both men and women had to make sacrifices to make coeducation work,'' Culler said. Gwynn pointed out that some of the old questions that had been dealt with during the first year recurred all over again. "Even though the sophomore women knew they had broken the ground, many times we seriously questioned whether what we had done had meant anything after two years,'' she stated. 
The big hurdle: social life 
By far the largest hurdle the new women at Notre Dame had to scale was making inroads into an all-male type of social atmosphere. "There was no casualness about the social situation like there is now," Gwynn said. "You can have guys who are friends now, without worrying about the whole dating situation." 
"In many cases," Culler said, "it seemed as if the guys expected that you already knew how to handle the social situation here. Really we were just as 
scared and inexperienced as  they were.  
The  expectations  on  both  sides  were  
outrageous."  

Both Tennant and senior Mike George stated that they spent more time at St. Mary's the first year. Since that time they have not gone over to St. Mary's socially as much. All the students recalled incidents when women were dragged off to parties in the male dorms usually to improve the lopsided male-female ratio at the event. All agreed that the dating situation was much more rigid and formal then. 
Gwynn noted one other change that has occurred in the past four years. "Whenev­er you saw a woman in a dress the first year it was a big deal. We always wore jeans. Maybe it was just that it was the end of the jean cult era." She continued, "Quite honestly it wasn't worth the hassle to get dressed up the first year. You really felt out of place." 
Jones agreed. "Women wanted to blend 
·in and stop drawing attention to them­selves," she said. Gwynn continued by saying that most women tried very hard to be the same as their male counterparts. "Finally, after four years, I think the women can feel more comfortable looking feminine. The women are being accepted as different but equal rather than separate and eQual.'' 
._--~ 
.•
.. 
""t •• ' ' 


Wednesday, March 10, 1976 .( .
·the observer 
No quotas, coed dorms 
r 
Admissions, housing differ at coed institutions 
t . . courses in this area. "We don't really have 
! 
by Kathy Mills
I • Staff R 
Senaor eporter 
~ 
The national trend in coeducation during 
r 
i'l the late 1960's and early 1970's significant­ly reduced the number of single-sex colleges throughout the country. One of the last all-male institutions to be affected by this trend was Notre Dame, which, went
l coed in 1972. Among the institutions which changed was Wesleyan University, which admitted women in 1968; Yale University, Princeton University and Bennington College follow­ed in 1969; Farifield University, Johns Hopkins University and Vassar College turned coed in 1970; Lehigh University ancl Stevens Institute of Technology changed over in 1971 and College of the Holy Cross followed the trend in 1972. One of the main reasons college officials gave for the trend toward coeducation, according to U.S. News and World Report, was ,"women are playing an increasingly important role in the economic and political life of the nation and are demanding broader educational opportunities." Also, the officials found, undergraduates wanted contact with members of the opposite sex in a context other than a social one. "Officials at single-sex schools are finding it harder and harder to compete for students with schools that have coeduca­tional systems," U.S. News reported in 1968. It also noted college officials thought coeducation was "educationally desirable" and would provide a better social life and a "more stimulating intellectual environ­ment." ' Yale's efforts 
One of the more publicized efforts toward coeducation on the undergraduate level was that begun by Yale University in the fall of 1969. Prior to the admittance of women to the school, a possible merger with Vassar College had been considered. However, this plan was rejected when the Vassar College Board of Trustees voted to reject any idea of a mutual venture. Vassar began to accept male students in 1970. 
While the possibilities of coeducation at Yale were still under study, the Student Advisory Board proposed a co-education week to demonstrate the educational and social advantages of having women at Yale. As a result, 750 women stayed at Yale for a week in November, 1968. Encouraged by the success of this experi­ment, Yale decided to go co-ed. 
Yale had originally planned to hold a quota system for admission of women. Worth David, dean of admissions at Yale, noted, "In the fall of 1969, we planned to admit 230 women and 1,025 men for the class of 1973." 
However, Yale found the quota system was not helping coeducation; the ration of men to women was seven to one during the first year of coeducation, and women students were dissatisfied. 
Thus, in 1972, the Yale Corporation, a governing board, decided to pursue a "sex-less" admission policy with a set proportion of 60 per cent males to 40 per cent females. As a result of the 

implementation of this policy, women comprise approximately 40 per cent of the undergraduate population at Yale. This figure is equivalent to the total percentage of women undergraduate students in the nation. 
Admissions policies 
Another college with a set proportion of 60 per cent undergraduate men to 40 per cent undergraduate women is College of the Holy Cross in Worcester, Mass. Holy Cross made the move to coeducation in 
~. September, 1972, after having an• exclu­

1·: sively male undergraduate population for 127 years. Fairfield University in Connec­ticut, which went coed in 1970, also employs a no-quota admission policy. Fairfield has a student body with approxi­
mately 45 per cent women. Of the 20 undergraduate dormttones at 
. . . D fi , d Th
Accordmg to John Goldrtck, dtrector of Notre arne, tve are women s orms. e 
. . . . d
admtsstons at Notre Dame, sex ts "not dorms are currently restrtcte to rna1es­
· d" h 1· t · ·d d 1 d f 1 1
tgnore w en an app tcan ts canst ere on y an em a es-on Y. 
· · h u · · y 1 h 1 d h · f 'J't'
for admtsswn to t e mverstty. a e as twe ve coe ousmg act t tes,
· 'ff · h f h' h · · t d
''There ts a tremendous dt erence m the eac o w tc contams tts own s u Y 
· · d d' · h 11 F ·m ld · 
apphcant pull of men and women," lounge, hbrary an mmg a . at te ts 
· · f d · · II
Goldnck explamed. "In past years, the composed o seven ormttones--one a ­
" ... college officials thought coeducation was 
' educationally desirable' and would provide 
a better social life and a "more stimulating 
intellectual environment.'' 
applicants have been only 25 to 30 per cent women." 
Goldrick added, "I don't know if the applicant pull would give us 60 to 40 percentages." The current male-female ratio at Notre Dame is approximately four to one. 
Goldrick said resident space plays a part in the number of women and men admitted to Notre Dame. ''The Committee on University Priorities recommends the num­ber of undergraduates. It's more than just a housing consideration, but housing is part of it,'' he said. 
male, one all-female and five coed. All of the dorms at Holy Cross are coed. 
"All implications of admission to the University will be under consideration the coming months,"Goldrick pointed out. 
Women's studies and faculty 
Another aspect of coeducation is wo­men's studies programs. Three years after it went coed, Yale added ten women's studies courses to its curriculum. Like Notre Dame. neither Holy Cross nor Fairfield has structured programs in women's studies; rather, there are a few 
, H 1 C t d t 
any programs, one o y ross s u en
t d "B t th . 
commen e . u ere are some specta1 
. . , t d' , 
semmars tn women s s u tes.
-A t N t D th f It · t 
s a o re arne e acu y tn mos
d t t F ·m' ld . 1 d . t 
epar men s at at te as rna e-omma ­
d Th t' . F 'rfi ld' . 
e . e excep ton ts at te s nursmg
d h' h h tl
epartment w tc as mos y women
f It ' 
acu"Wey. don't have a lot of women faculty members,'' said one student from Holy Cross, "but a lot of the women on the faculty are tenured." Notre Dame has only two women faculty members who have tenure; both are in the theology depart­ment. 
Alumni support coed decision 
Richard Conklin, director of Information 
Services, said he thinks Notre Dame's 
decision to go coed was received better by 
its alumni than by the alumni of other 
schools. 
"We received much less flack, much less 
dispute, from our alumni than many other 
schools. Dartmouth and Princeton experi­
enced much more restiveness than we 
did,'' he pointed out. Conklin added 62 per 
cent of Notre Dame's alumni indicated in a 
recent sur bey that they ''strongly agreed 
or agreed'' with changeover to coeduca­
tion. 
How women have become a 
by Valerie Zurblis Wire Editor 
Four years after becoming a coeduca­tional institution, Notre Dame now boasts 1318 undergraduate women and 5497 men. 
Womer. are coming into their own, and more women are visible in responsible campus positions. 
Four of the 23 main staff members on this year's Student Government are wo­men; the Observer has three women on its twelve member editorial board; Student Union has two out of nine positions going to women; and the Ombudsman service has women filling three of its nine executive positions. 
But is Notre Dame truly coeducational? How can the situation be improved and exactly how are the women at Notre Dame fitting into the community? 
Women reply 
"Coeducation in the past four years was 
based on what the women needed, and the 
next four years should be based on what 
the men and women need, and their 
interactions with one another, "stated se­
nior Diana Merten. 
Merten is one woman who has become 
very involved in Notre Dame. As a 
sophomore, she was president of Breen­
Phillips and a member of the St. Mary's 
and Notre Dame (SMAND) council. She 
served on the financial subcommittee of 
the Committee on Undergraduate Life 
(COUL) and was responsible for the COUL 
follow-up report. This year she was a 
representative from Notre Dame to the 
SO+ 12 Alcohol Conference and helped 
coordinate the event at Notre Dame. She 
was one of the lobbyists for the lower legal 
drinking age in Indiana and is currently a 
resident assistant in Walsh Hall. 
Merten said that as the number of 
women has increased at Notre Dame, the 
atmosphere has become better. "How­
ever, numbers are not the only important 

thing," Merten added. "More interaction 
is needed between men and women on an 
informal basis.'' 
Identity crisis 
"Notre Dame women have been going 
through an identity crisis these past few 
years. They want people to know they are 
from Notre Dame and not St. Mary's," 
said Assistant Judicial Coordinator Mary 
Ellen Keenan. 
Keenan was co-chairman with Ed Byrne 
on the COUL subcommittee on residential­
ity, part of the student lobby for lowering 
the drinking age in Indiana, and is 
currently campus news director at WSND. 
Keenan emphasizes that St. Mary's was not a part of coeducation after the merger fell through and that it is not a part of it now. 
"Men have never had the problem of being called a 'Smick Chick' or something else they didn't choose to be associated with. The Notre Dame woman has a right to be known as a Notre Dame woman," Keenan continued, "just as the St. Mary's woman has the right to be known as a St. Mary's woman.'' 
"The idea that Notre Dame and St. 

SUSAN DARIN 
Mary's women don't like each other is a myth," senior Ellen Syburg commented. "The truth is that most women from either cam pus don't know each other. The rumor was perpetuated by the guys at Notre Dame." Syburg encouraged women of both campuses to try to dispel this image. 
Syburg, an American Studies Major, has been influential on campus in her four years here. She has been chairman of the COUL coeducation subcommittee, member of the Advisory Council of Women Stu­dents and program chairman of the Jazz Festival. 
Over the· years Syburg has sensed a change in tone from the administration and authorities such as haii staffs. "At first, they encouraged us not to 'rock the boat','' she explained. "Now women can come here and be students like everyone else. We have more freedom now." 
'Social pressure off' 
"Ombudsman" Briget O'Donnell said she thinks • 'the relationship between guys and girls is less strained and not always in a dating situation. The social pressure is off for men and women to live up to social 'expectations','' she said. 
O'Donnell has been a member of the Ombudsman organization since her fresh­man year. Last year she headed the Community Relations division ~md worked on 'Operation Brainstorm'. O'Donnell has also participated in University Chorus and has worked in the dining hall. 
O'Donnell said she thinks the social situation has improved and that more people of the opposite sex meet each other in casual situations. '• Some men also felt they couldn't compete with women when they came here, but that, too, has died down.'' 
''The atmosphere is more relaxed now. There was no busing brought up at Mardi Gras time and no other men's dorms have been given to women," said. junior Darlene Palma. "Fewer men complain ~bout the 
preferential treatment women have re­
ceived (in the past)." 
Palma was an SLC student representative her sophomore year and the Student Affairs subcommittee chairman on COUL. She was in Indianapolis lobbying for the lower drinking age and served on the Women's Advisory Council. She is currently the junior class vice-president. 
Palma stated that the ideal coeducational atmosphere "is starting," indicating that in the beginning years there weren't enough women on campus to serve as role models. "There were few women in positions at the University to relate to, and a lack of career counseling for women," Palma commented. 
However, she pointed out that things have been done to alleviate this situation, as witnessed by the Women's Advisory Council's program of women speakers. which featured female faculty members. Also. Palma said that the University has tried to increase the number of women on the faculty. 
The Student Director of Off-Campus Housing, Palma has been ''running the show" since the director Fr. Thomas Tallarida, stepped down in December. 
Palma said there were 70 women who lived off campus in the Fall of 1974, and in the Fall of 1975 the number rose to 118. , These figures include students living in apartments, houses and at home with their families. Palma also noted that more St. Mary's women live off campus than Notre Dame women. 
'Women give more' 
Susan Darin, first female editor of the yearbook, explained that a woman had to make her own way at Notre Dame at first because nothing was handed to her. "In the business world, women give out ten percent more effort, and here, too, women have to give out more," she commented. 
Darin, a senior American studies major, served last year as editor of the Dome. She has also been on the Lafortune renovation committee for four years and is now chairman of the committee. She is active in Walsh Hall's government and has worked with Sr. Miriam Jones. 
Darin emphasized that a woman had to have a sense of humor at first and not let herself be hurt. "As the guys who knew ND as strictly male are leaving and as more guys come who know ND is coed before they apply, women · will feel less like prisoners," Darin said. 
Sally Stanton, current editor of the Scholastic agreed with Darin that the increased number of women on campus and the graduation of the last all-male class have helped the coeducation situation. 
An RAin Farley,-and former member of the Arts and Letters Student Advisory Council, Stanton has also noticed that women have taken more of a leadership role on campus. 'Notre Dame is not a male place, but a people place," said Stanton. 
•'As women become a part of the 

A
' ' . . -~-: .~ 
Wednesday, March 10, 1976 the observer
St. Mary7 s reacts to the women 'across the road' 
by Marti Hogan Asst. St. Mary's Editor 
h was to be exptected that coeducation at Notre Dame would have significant ramifications for neighboring St. Mary's College, but in 1972 few could predict the 
direction the changes would take. That year witnessed both the revival and the demise of plans to unify the two schools, and resulted in the admission of women students at Notre Dame. 
Dr. William Hickey, vice president of academic affairs at St. Mary's, described relations between the two schools as "rocky" after the deunification. "There was a short period of bruised reputations and hurt feelings. But in a matter of months relations began to improve and have continued to do so every year," he said. General interest in developing academic areas exists at both schools, Hickey said. He cited the coexchange program as "probably the most effective program of cooperation.'' 
A free coexchange program was set up within the second semester of the year following deunification with a 3,000 credit hour limit per institution. "We have a combined , speech and drama department and we offer a coordinate maior for both 
part ~f the ND Colllmunity 
community, they can fulfill what they want to do. Women have become a part of the history of Notre Dame." 
Parietals unsatisfactory or real value? 
Despite the basic agreement among the women interviewed on coeducation in general, opinions on specific issues dif­fered markedly. 
The current parietals system is unsatis­factory to Stanton. She said that the students are not given as much responsibil­ity as they should be, and added that a 
ucoeducation in the past four years was based on what the women needed, and the next four years should be based on what the men and women need ... " 
sense of self-reliance can't be fostered by 
taking the power of decision away. Being 
adult means making your own decisions, 
even if you make mistakes,'' she said. 
Stanton also noted that parietal hours 
aren't stringently enforced in all the halls, 
and the enforcements aren't consistent. 
"There is a real value in being able to 
just be with men or women sometimes," 
said O'Donnell. "It is easier to have 
privacy respected if some limitations on 
visiting are enforced. And its not always 
that easy to have that privacy respected, 
even when guys aren't in the dorm. 
Merten would like to see the parietal regulations in the hands of the individual dorms. "Parietals is privacy for the residents and the hall community should decide the needs," she said. "I think a beautiful community would be created if the halls could form their own rules.'' Syburg, Darin and Keenan supported Merten's parietals position. 
Merten suggested that husband-wife teams run the dorms, but she pointed out that their n:arriages would have to be stable. However, Merten said that she asked University President Fr. Hesburgh about her ideas and he saw the dorms were not a stable situation because the staffs change every year and last year's staff rules can't be binding on a new staff. Merten said Hesburgh told her this could create a chaotic period in the beginning of the year. 
Coed dorm 'won't solve everything' 
Keenan's COUL subcommittee sugges­ted making Keenan-Stanford a coed dorm because it wasn't the "nicest" dorm and the men couldn't accuse the women of having "special treatment." 
Syburg is also in favor of coed dorms as an option to living in an all one-sex dorm. "It's not going to solve everything, but at least it will offer a variety," she said. 
0'Donnell points out that there are many ways to look at coed housing: by floors, wings, towers and rooms. "For some people it would be good," she said. "The value in living in a one-sex dorm would be to share situations and problems with each other that would be difficult to share with a guy living across the hall. People interested and sincere in making the coed situation work could see the coed dorm as an option," O'Donnell said. · 
Palma said that there was "a need for someway to assess a response to coed 
housing. "I think there are some people who want it and some who don't. Some would just like extended hours, but any process would be a long time,'' she stated. 
On-campus activities needed 
The women interviewed have number of suggestions for improving life at Notre Dame. 
Keenan suggested more on-campus activities to make the coeducation situation better. She mentioned bowling lanes under the bookstore, a pub in the LaFortune Rathskellar and said that the Nazz has been a good idea so far. 
Syburg is for more neutral space as an effort in the direction to make men and women more relaxed with each other. She 
schools in theology and religious studies. Students may take their core requirements in either department," Hickey explained. "There's no reason to compete,'· sata Stephanie Wernig, assis1.ant to the vice president of Student Affairs. She explain­ed that the two schools should not be 

.:ompetitive, but complimentary. "It's silly to duplicate courses because of the economy," Werni,g added. 
No classes are-closed "by policy" to students on either campus, Hickey said. However, "an individual professor at 
noted that a lot of people were "into 
studying'' and that for relaxation they 
would get drunk. 
Stanton suggests more hall-run activi­ties. "Working at any common project brings people together,'' and there are enough organizations on campus for every­ooe to join, she said._ 
Stanton emphasizes that "neutral space" is necessary. The University has to try to balance the ratio out to be on a residential campus." She notes that rela­tionships have become less formal and a lot more people are doing things in groups rather than on separate dates. 
O'Donnell agreed with the neutral space idea as an option to parietals hours. ''There is a need for places where guys and girls can talk. I would like to see more 1 guys' halls have 24-hour lounges," she added. 
Merten suggested activities like the recent square dance as those that can be attended without a regular date. She recommends that more activities be held outside if possible. "You have to help those people who aren't able to easily socialize," Merten stressed. "It is easier to stop by an open function than to commit yourself to entering a building for an activity." 
Merten added that most of the interact­ion between the sexes now is on a competitive basis, in classes and in sports. She would like to see Notre Dame women meet and know more St. Mary's women an d possibly see two women's dorms on campus sponsor an activity instead of pairing up with a men's dorm. 
Merten said, "Men and women have certain talents and should work together. Notre Dame is working toward that." 
This poster appeared in Notre Dame Magazine and throughout the country when one of the most traditionally male universities launched its first female recruiting program. 
~­
either institution may deny a student admission to his class. I'm sure not very many are like that," he said. St. Mary's is now using less than half of these alloted hours and Notre Dame would like to see expanded interest, Hickey added. 
"Part of the problem is scheduling," he continued. "A 10 a.m. class on one campus usually blocks out a 9 a.m. or 11 
a.m. class on the other." A modified class schedule is being considered to allow a greater period of time between classes to increase the number of coexchange hours used. "A more efficient bus system woulc' help," Hickey said, voicing a frequeat student complaint. 
Advantage for SMC sports 
Notre Dame's coed program also serves as an advantage for St. Mary's sports, according to Wernig. Otherwise, "it (SMC sports program) wouldn't be as developed as it is now,'' she said: She added that it would be more convenient if St. Mary's were allowed to use Notre Dame sports facilities. "That way we wouldn't have to rent pool time or tennis courts in South Bend." 
But she explained that even if St. Mary's did have access to Notre Dame facilities, ''we would still need our own sports center 
because we are a separate institution. Our 
sports program has nothing to do with 
Notre Dame," Wernig concluded. 
Although some people think St. Mary's 
regrets the non-merger, St. Mary's senior 
Leslie Wilson said, "It's not true. I think 
there is an attitude or feeling with the 
presence of women at Notre Dame that has 
helped to make St. Mary's an assertive 
institution." Wilson contended that there 
is no problem between the schools on an 
individual basis. "Who's to say Notre 
Dame women don't need . St. Mary's 
women just because the guys feel that they 
don't?" Wilson stated that most of the 
tension between the two schools is fostered 
by "Notre Dame men and thefr games." 
Although Wernig states it's "nothing 
official," many St. Mary's students feel 
they are being "phased out" of Notre 
Dame activities and organizations. Wernig 
views this "phasing out" as inevitable. 
"Notre Dame has the right to do that. We 
come from a history of cooperating, so 
people are surprised," Wernig said. 
Wilson seemed to sum up the general 
feeling of St. Mary's saying, "Women 
stayed at St. Mary's after the merger broke 
off because they wanted to be there. Those 
students entering now enter St. Mary's not 
as an appendage of Notre Dame but as a 
women's institution on it's own." 
Wilson's contention is supported by the American Council on Education's annual survey. The report shows that 80 per cent of the 1975-1976 freshman class did not apply to Notre Dame, and for 84 percent, St. Mary's was their first choice. However, the survey also shows that St. Mary's nearness to Notre Dame and the coex­change program offered between the two schools were among the most important reasons for their decisions. 
'Best of two worlds' 
"St. Mary's women have the best of 
two worlds," said Hickey. "St. Mary's students can participate in a university environment academically and socially." Hickey added that there are specialized offerings here that SMC students couldn't find in any liberal arts college in the country. Yet, there is a real opportunity for students to get to know the faculty well which, he added, is something not usually found in universities. 
The two institutions are in ''regular contact," with Hickey serving as a St. Mary's representative to Notre Dame's Academic Council and Dr. William Burke, assistant to the provost, serving as Notre Dame's representative to St. Mary's Academic council. "We don't wait until problems crop up," Hickey said. 

DR. WILLIAM HICKEY 
Hickey cited calendar differences as one of the problems to avoid. In the fall of 1973, St. Mary's calendar differed slightly from Notre Dame's by two days, giving St. Mary's students an extended week-end break which Notre Dame did not have. 
"We learned fast that a different calendar would cause all kinds of prob­lems," Hickey said. 1,"We put in our two cents about the '74-'75 calendar, making it clear we were not in favor of the proposed calendar, but to maintain cooperation, the calendars had to be identical." Hickey explained that the compromised Notre Dame calendar came closer to the calendar St. Mary's proposed than the calendar first proposed by Notre Dame. 
Notre Dame does seek the opinion of St. Mary's on events which effect both campuses. However, Notre Dame "always seems to override decisions for us," Hickey noted. He called Notre Dame a bigger and more powrful institution than St. Mary's but added that the relationship existing between the two schools is not unique. "This type of relationship exists within Notre Dame's own university, between administration and faculty for example,' • Hickey explained. "I'm never surprised at the responses we receive from Notre Dame.'' 

f.-:·: \!$¥f!-..-~:: 
-
..... 

r 
the observer· Wednesday~·Man:h.1:0., '1976
8 
Women change the image ofthe ND 1ock' 
by Gregg Bangs Senior Staff Reporter 
Title IX is going to have both a direct and indirect influence on women's athletics here at Notre Dame, according to two coaches of women's sports. 
Title IX of the Educational Amendment of 1972 formulated by the Department of Health. Education and Welfare states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any educational programs or activity receiving federal financial assistance.'' 
When the amendment was first passed, 1 a great deal of national speculation focused on the effects it might have on major sports. The media may have focused on this aspect, but Carole Moore, assistant professor of history and women's tennis coach at Notre Dame, states in a commen­tary appearing in Notre Dame Magazine, 
''Its effects will be more wide­spread. All levels of athletic programs are going to be affected in complying with Title IX." 
Both Moore and coordinator of Women's Athletic Astrid Hotvedt would like to see women's athletics at Notre Dame expand­ed this year by the granting of varsity status to the women's tennis and fencing teams. 
Are men's and women's athletic programs on a collision course? Title IX and recent HEW regulations have both sides fighting for their rights. The controversy at Notre Dame may come to a head this year as women's club sports apply for varsity status. 

"I would like to see a financial and psychological commitment on the part of the athletic department," Moore states. "It would be nice to create a climate where the value of sports on all levels is honestly believed in. At the present moment, they (the administrators) are taking half-mea­sures in trying to get around legal implications. Nothing comes out of this kind of attitude. They could prove themselves by giving fencing and tennis varsity status," she continues. 
Moore is presently chairing an ad hoc committee of the SLC on women's athletics which is a follow-up to the Committee on Undergraduate Life's recommendations. She finds that the interhall and corecrea­tional programs "are really good. The base level of women's sports is excellent. Of course, there's not much outlay of money," Moore points out. 
The program offered to women at the club level is also quite fair according to Moore. "It's doing well for club sports. This is not to get down on club sports," she adds. "They (club sports) are an important part of any sports program, but they're not the end we seek. Club sports are only stepping stones. We want varsity status and we have to prove ourselves, not with pats on the head but with the money given to varsity teams," she explains. "The grass roots have been accomodated, but where it costs, it hasn't. We do have talents and we need help just through varsity status." she continues. 

CAROLE MOORE 
Moore does not think her demands are outrageous, for the actual amount of money laid out would not be extravagant, she says. In a move seemingly geared to 
( test out the situation, the tennis team applied for varsity status March 1. "We are now at a point where it will be obvius if the Athletic Administration supports wo­men," Moore claims. "Now they have a chance to grant us varsity status; if they say 'no', they are in effect not supporting women's athletics--which is contrary to Title IX," she adds. 
Hotvedt is also hoping for the granting of varsity status to the fencing and tennis teams. If the tennis team had not filed for varsity status March 1, she says, she would have asked for it at the spring meeting of the Notre Dame Athletic Board, of which she is a member. 
"I would hope they consider at least two varsity sports in the order of fencing and tennis,' she says. "If the money figures going along with both are found within reason, I really hope both achieve that status (varsity) after thorough considera­tion of the facts presented,'' she continues. 
Unlike Moore, however, Hotvedt feel! the effects of Title IX are of secondar~ inportance compared to the growth ol women's sports on the national level. "Title IX has helped nationally, especiall)' in the high school level, "·she says. "Since it helps high schools, we'll have talented high school girls coming to Notre Dame who will be talented both scholastically and athletically,'' she explains. 
In an offshoot of this comment, Hotved1 commented that she would ''like tc encourage women athletes to come tc Notre Dame because of the possibility ol gaining a scholarship after admission." Hotvedt notes that since (at least at thE present moment) there are no revenue-pro· ducing women· s sports in any aspect, she would like to see any possible scholarships based on scholarly endeavors. 
Hotvedt's plans for this year are only a part of an overall ten year plan she has for women· s athletics at Notre Dame. ·The stages of this plan can be broken down into advances made after two years and five years. 
To gather ideas as to what kind of program would be best, Hotvedt has been studying athletic programs at schools that went co-ed at a similar time as Notre Dame. These schools include Princeton, Harvard, Yale, and Boston College. She is also looking at programs at several Big Ten schools. "I'm trying to look at the obstacles and successes at a school such as Princeton. Obviously, we'll take the best parts and try to avoid the obstacles," she points out. 
At a 'meeting of the Association For Intercollegiate Athletics For Women (AlAW) held last January 11-15 at Scotts­dale, Arizona, Hotvedt tried to meet the women in charge of the programs at these schools. "I tried to make an initial contact with these women,'' she says. "Some Had titles of assistant athletic director, others were somen's sports coordinators. Regar­dless of title, I made a point of meeting individually with these women and estab­lishing a first line of communication. I compared salaries, facilities, equipment and other such things. For instance I'd ask how a school would change an athletic building designed from guidelines meant for men to one that could facilitate women. Most training rooms are now located inside the men's locker rooms. This would have to be changed,'' she continues. 
From her own insights and the combina­tion ofthese studies and talks, Hotvedt has designed her ten year plan. 
In two years Hotvedt would like to have at least two team sports and two individual a varsity philosophy,'' she comments. 
sports recognized at the varsity level. This At the ten year mark, she would like to
would entail having to pay coaches, a see, among other things, a fully developed, 
manager system for women and a student trainer. The four sports mentioned are the balanced program of athletics by season aforementioned tennis and fencing which and related types of activities. This would would be joined by basketball and field occur on an individual, team and related hockey. level. The related level involves activities 
''These are reasonable requests; not all such as modern dance, drill teams and top dollar. To get a specific money figure synchronized swimming. for their cost, I would compare the 
Hotvedt would also like to have a 
program costs at other schools I mentioned determined number of varsity sports in (Princeton, Yale, etc.) and take the mean," team and individual sports, although she is she explains. 
not sure just exactly how many teams this 
Hotvedt would also like to see an will entail. She would also stay away from improvement in training facilities such as a major-minor set-up. "We would work lockerrooms, especially for the visiting hard to say one sport is not better than teams. another,'' comments Hotvedt. 
At the present moment, the visiting "I think I'm safe in feeling that in ten teams don't receive the best lockerrooms years women's athletics will be accepted because of the club status, not because with pride and respect along with complete they are women, according to Hotvedt. varsity responsibilities, in their respective 
sports,·' she says.
''The reason why football would always get the astroturf over the field hockey team She feels the climate is "warm to hot" was because we were a club, just like for one to two varsity sports next fall. lacrosse or soccer. With varsity status, ''They may not be funded with large there might be some scheduling problems, budgets. or even have the equal of the 
"Possibly the incorporation of women . into the collegiate athletic structure will help us return to a more balanced sense of what athletic participation should be--the development of grace, discipline and character." 
but there would be an equal sharing of lowest men's budget, but the status prime time,'' she points out. problem would at least start to be over,'' 
The only area Hotvedt would foresee any Hotvedt says. trouble in would be tennis. This would ~'Students need to see women athletes come about because of the shortage of perform," she ~hinks. "Once performance courts on campus. One of the ten year 1s seen, nothmg would be said. The recommendations would be the construe-skeptics need to come and watch." 
tion of 12 courts for both varsity teams. Hotvedt agrees with Moore when she 
At the five year mark, Hotvedt would says that women are working in women's like to be "firm on whether or not a team is world and not in a man's, therefore a varsity or club.'' She would also like to see women's program should be viewed seper­some sports started with the intention of ately. "I think in a women's program,just being varsity--such as volleyball. 
there would not be a women's tennis team, 
"Rather than have a sport like volleyball bot a tennis team," Hotvedt comments. 
start as a student organized club, it would be aided and developed into a varsity In her article, Moore suggest perhaps 
sport. There should be a growth based on yet another reason why women should be adopted into collegiate athletics: "Possi­bly the incorporation of women into the collegiate athletic structure will help us 
return to a more balanced sense of what athletic participation should be--the devel­opment of grace, discipline and charac­ter." 
Supplement Staff
f * 
editor Maureen Flynn 

athletic asst. editor Val Zurblis dept. 
graphics Sally Dentz 
~hotos Chris Smith 
) 
•• , , • ',J ' ...... 



.... 
"j .•. 
I .I ' 
There is only so much explaining you can do to a dear pet and favorite animal, when you are going to leave him and go on a trip. 
There are only so many times you can say: "Why explain anything? The dumb beast doesn't know what you are talking about.'' 
He pours it on heavy, that shameless little wretch. He plays all the puppy tricks that can break your heart, if you don't know the pretensions behind the mask. He has had his weekends away, as any campus policeman can tell you; coming back, 
theatre 
saroyan brings some new faces out 
My Heart's in the Highlands opened and closed last night in Saint Mary's O'Laugh­lin auditorium; one night was all it got. 
It brought to mind the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's Theater production of Fashion last December, and the real puzzle it is to stage for a college audience a melodrama that wants to be taken seriously as it reaches for a response that by rights we shouldn't feel compelled to give it. 
But Fashion, a considerable success at meeting this challenge, was one of the regular season's four plays. Considering that most of the theater veterans were tied up in The Crucible or in auditions for GodspeU, putting on a play like My Heart's in the Highlands, with a cast of newcom­ers, could be a disaster. 
But it wasn't. In fact, it was the cast that shone the brightest, a cast full of faces never before seen on O'Laughlin stage, or people who had never had leading roles at ND-SMC. They were a very large part of the success that Highlands turned out to be. 
The play itself is a curious, fragmented thing. Called a "theater parable" by its author William Saroyan, it was written in the 1930's about an earlier time in United States history, sometime during the latter 
Attention Observer Seniors!!!!! 
We, the Observer juniors, would like to thank the following graduat­
WELCOME 
ing seniors Terry Keeney, AI 
TO
Rutherford, Bill Brink, Ken Brad­ford. Jim Eder, Mary Janca, David 
THE REAL
Rust, Tom Whalen, Tom Modglin, Kevin Murphy, Craig Quinn, John 
WORLD
Kuhn, Jim Commyn, Mary Egan 
•
and Howard Halle for all the help'---"""'___. they've given us this year. Good luck next year from the Observer juniors!---Tom O'Neil, Gregg Bangs, Dan Sanchez, Chris Smith, Pat Hanifin, Val Zurblis, Tim 0' Reiley, Don Reimer, Bob Mader, Mary Reher, Fred Herbst, Mike 
Miller and Bill Nichols. 
Letters to a 
only so much explaining 
without explanations, looking jaunty and indecent, like an impenitent prodigal. Still I hate the guilt of shunting him off to the kennel. I dread the chore of telling him goodbye. I can't stand the despair in those dark, doggy eyes, watching me as I leave him leashed to a stranger's doghouse. 
There are sadder goodbyes I have said; maybe those sadder goodbyes are what I'm reminded of when I see the helpless hurt in my Darby's eyes. There are the hospital rooms where the dearest and best of one's family have been left, and their eyes have pleaded with you not to leave them. They cannot believe you would leave them in a 

.,,. >fp
>floC >floC WKioC==H>tJ< 
.. 
HAll goodbyes are filled with risks. No matter what fidelities we pledge to each other, there is a cosmic cruelty that can pia~ games with our liues." 
endure forever, it seems, andthose halls ot ivy grow venerable and immortal; on the quads, there will always be students inheriting the glory of the earth. Yet, for all its fixity, the campus moves like a train in a journey through time; whenever the semester stops, there are friends who get off, and will not be seen here again. We do not know which station is our station; we cannot be sure when all our ticket has been used. It's only when the conductor shouts "All Aboard!", and the train moves onward in its journey toward the west, that we can be sure that our reservations have been confirmed, and that some of us have not been left, disembarked at the station, 
waving farewell to the cars of the Super Chief. 
Tomorrow, Thursday morning at five o'clock, I will, God willing, be leaving with the Glee Club for the South; and for thirteen days, we will be seeing if it's true 
part of World War I when American society was still predominantly rural but the frontier was gone. Into this atmosphere Saroyan introduces a widower father and his young son, Ben Alexander and Johnny, played by Jack Campbell and Reginald F. Bain Jr., respectively. The father, a youngish fellow whose only profession is poet, seems at first to be a washout, a lazy non-provider who identi­fies too closely with his son and procures his food by coercing Johnny into making trips to the grocery to badger owner Mr. Kosak. He is dour and cynical, and believes the Atlantic Monthly's refusal to publish his poetry, while world war rages, is symptomatic of the evil of the age. His son, on the other hand, is bright and cheerful, possessed of boundless energy, a rapid learner and an accomplished little actor. Together father and son made the most engaging pair on stage. If Highlands were approached as a melodrama, they would be the poor, abused victims, the tear-jerkers, the total focus of audience sympathy--they cannot, for example, pay their bills, and they are subsequently forced out of their home. But they did not prove to be such 
"Shall I believe/ That unsubstantial Death is amorous/ And that the lean abhorred monster keeps/ Thee here in dark to be his paramour?'' 
This is a week for goodbyes to be said. There are desks to be hurried away from, books to be left behind, a campus seen as beautiful from a rear view mirror. We fling ourselves across highways, across moun­tains, across beaches. No wind or storm could scatter dust and seed as widely as we scatter ourselves. No matter how hard we try, some of us will forget to come back, and our campus world will never be as whole again. Grottos and golden domes
-
-
standard melodramatic figures, for two 
reasons. First, Saroyan's play is more than 
a melodrama--it is a compound of various 
and shifting dramatic ideas. This is not to 
mistake it for being deep, but it is broad. 
The second reason is the actors who 
played these two roles. Campbell was very 
fine as the sometimes vain, sometimes 
funny, sometimes anguished Ben Alex­
ander. Bain was extraordinarily good as 
his son, tumbling about on stage with his 
father or running back to fetch a bu~:1el 
basket to catch food from the neighbors. 
Together, they were a thing of wonder 
there was not the least stiffness or 
artificiality in their stage relationship, and 
they were the glue that held together this 
unwieldy play. 
It is difficult to choose from among the many acting standouts, but certainly Virgil Roth as Jasper MacGregor is a necessary choice. MacGregor the character, threat­ening to steal the show out from under the Alexanders' feet, is an actor and musician, an old f(\!ks home escapee who claims his "heart's iu the Scottish highlands," but who has finally no real link to Scotland other than his Scottish surname. 
Roth's crowning moment comes at a juncture that could easily have proven ridiculous: MacGregor, the old Shake­spearian actor, dies reciting lines froad King Lear as an audience of townspeople look on, believing they're only watching an act. 
T<, q.,ote Lear in a play like Highlands is a dangerous proposition, and might usually have to be played for laughs to save it from disaster. But Roth took the other route: he actually became King Lear, and for three minutes or more he succeeded in wrench­ing the audience away from the melodrama and forced them to stare abandoned old age in the face. Roth is an actor that can do it, and his "act" was perfect. 
This doesn't say much for the unity of the play, but it does fit into the general scheme of last night's performance: new actors and actresses exploring different possibilities on the landscape of a play that, today, could sustain almost any kind of variation, as long as it is done well. 
My Heart's In the Highlands was what they say about Dixie. During that time, there is a little dog named Darby I will be worried about. Despite his displeasure at kennels and his distress at being separated from the trees and squirrels of Dulac, he will, hopefully, be spared the "whips and scorns of time,/ Th'oppressor's wrong, the proud man's contumely,/ The pangs of despis'd love, the law's delay/ The insolence ·of office, and the spurns/ That patient merit of th' unworthy takes ... ", without making his quietus with a bare bodkin. 
Beasts, in their silliness, must be cared for; but the most we can give our friends, when we leave them, is our love, our hope, and our promise of prayers. I wish I could keep our world together, but people are not dogs to be chained in a kennel, though we can be as foolish as puppies doing mischief. Would it be sentimental to ask you to take care of yourselves? Would it sound too motherly Jewish to admit the fear I feel as each of you travels in separate directions with his or her own special beauty, leaving the lakes to brood almost alone? 
There is only so much explaining you can do to a pet or a person, when you tell them goodbye, but I would remind you: there are places where you belong, and Notre Dame is one of them. Because you are not tucked into a hillside, like a grotto, ·or perched like a statue on a pedestal of the sun, it does not mean you are not cherished as the chief treasures of this household of faith. I do not like the risks involved in being apart; I pray for the miracle that sees us together again. Then there will be the wordless pleasure of finding a red bowl for water anda bluedish for food; there will be the happiness of the bounce in a belled rubber ball. Then there will be content­ment in the dark eyes of a dog who, for all I know, may be planning a lost weekend of his own. 
dauid rust 
presented as part of the ND-SMC Bicen­
tennial festival, and by context forced 
perhaps a closer look at the Americana of 
the play. A good example was the study it 
made of the curious position of immigrant 
grocer Mr. Kosak, whose struggle to 
succeed in a new land was in direct 
contrast to his absolute importance for 
native Americans Ben and Johnny Alex­
ander. It is a particularly poignant moment 
when Kosak, under Johnny's verbal tor­
rent, feels finally forced to say, "This ain't 
China--everybody got to work in thL 
country." 
Kosak was played by Mark Amenta, who 
did a very believable job of creating a 
foreign accent, and of duplicating hunched 
shoulders and limp. 
Lisa Turco as Johnny's grandmother, 
Brooke Waling as Kosak's daughter Es­
ther, Dennis Doughty as Henry the 
newsboy, Peter Reiher as mailman Mr. 
Wiley, and indeed all of the cast, were fun 
to watch, and the 900 in the audience 
seemed to enjoy every minute of them. 
Reginald F. Bain (Sr.), creating for his actors ingenious dances, twists, runs, and his infamous "bits," did an able directing job. 
With sets swinging into place after the lights had gone down, people regularly walking on and off stage, a narrator (Sean Coleman) tying the whole thing together, right down to the red-shirted gentleman who strode on stage to try his hand at unobtrusively fixing a set of stairs that had come loose--all were evidence of the fact that Bain's direction was, among other things, an aim on an effect of informality. 
The half-hour curtain raiser, also a "theater parable" by Saroyan called Hello Out There, was perhaps less successful. Chris Kelly was likeable as the Young Man, but his death scene, unlike Roth's, was out-and-out comical, and the play left one with an uneasy feeling that someone had missed his mark. 
It wasn't bad, though. It was a challenge to put these plays on; but many who saw them probably left the auditorium grateful to those who put them on for the potential stars they introduced. It was a real gift for the Bicentennial. 

1Q the observer Wednesday, March 10, 1976 
----~~~~~~----------------­
·; ~ 
• 
\ ' } ,; O'Neil announces new Observer Editorial Board 
\ 
(continued from page 1) capacities of feature writers this Eileen O'Grady, a junior from uction Manager will be Martha
{ night controller and news secretary. 
Pat Hanifin will retain his pres­year. . Arlington Heights, Illinois, will fill Fanning, a sophomore from Milton Mike Miller, a junior from Cleve­1 ent position as Editorial Editor. Replacing senior Bill Brink as. the newly created oosition of Massachusetts. Fanning will over-~ land Heights, Ohio, will replace Hanifin, a junior from Honolulu, Sports Editor will be Fred Herbst, a Women's Sports Editor. O'Grady see the running of the production· 
Tom Whalen as Advertising Mana­Hawaii supervises the overall prod­junior from Blessvale, New York. has served as day editor, staff staff which consists of typists and ger. Miller will supervise a staff\ uction of the editorial page. Herbst has served in the capacities reporter and sports writer this night comptrollers. This year, 
which is responsible for procuring
\ Hanifin frequently writes news of sports writer, copy reader and year. · Fanning has served as assistant ads and displaying them in the ) stories. staff reporter this year. Replacing Howard Halle as Prod-editor, senior staff reporter. paper. 
Shop Town & Country!! 
"JUST ARRIVED" 
t~ Brand new shipment of ~rnJ[J1J~macrame beads & pendants. ~ni}~~--~:,·: Many unusual items. 
~~ .·1 -~~ 
/-~ ... ~~--~\ ~~\1"\)& 
2340 miracle lane
town & country . ~;::.f:~~ :t-'1'r" shoppmg center ~\L-J..;. mishawaka, indiana 46544 
219 I 256 . o111 
NEW TURQUOISE JEWELRY SHIPMENT!!!!! 
20% off on all turquoise jewelry ZUNI, NAVAJO, 
S SOME MEXICAN INDIAN
. \ four areas; $500 for student aid; $500 for faculty development; $500 for the professional development of individual faculty members; and $500 for any institutional use, according to Duggan. 
"We will apply the funds for faculty development and student aid to the humanities --our departments of English, history, philosophy, religious studies, and humanistic studies,'' Duggan said. 

Shell Companies Foundation was established 24 years ago to contri­bute to education, and the Shell Assists Grant program started in 1958 to provide money for faculty development. 
If you have never heard a scientist dte evidence in nature that I'TBl \NaS specially created 
YOU MUST HEAR 
DR HAROLD COFFIN 

Fri., ltAirdl 19: "lhe Watch a1c1 the Watd'lmaker"
1 
Sat., ltAir 20z; 
"Darwin's Mistake" 
Sun., Mar. 21: "F-ossil ReCDn:f and Earth History" 
7 :30 eadl evening 
SCHOOL AUDITORIUM 
1910 E Altgeld South Bend 
NO ADMISSION CHARGE 
F\Jblic Invited 
·~ 
\ 
~ 
l 
l 
Mary Egan, a senior from Ber­wyn. Illinois. will join the staff as a contribut;ng editor. Egan has served in the positions of copy 
reader. day editor, and staff(1 reporter. Tim O'Reilly will replace O'Neil as Features Editor. His duties will 
~1 
' { include procuring stories, laying out the page and maintaining a st.lff. O'Reilly is a junior from San Diego, California and has served in the capacity of night editor and ~ I . staff reporter this year. ' { ' William Nichols, a junior 
from Chapel Hill, North Carolina 
d. and Dominick Salomi, a sophomore from ~pringfield, Virginia will re­
! 
place Bangs as Assistant Features -, : Editor. Both have served in the 
H 
Shell Foundation
~ 
awards SMC grant 
Shell Companies Foundation has;) awarded St. Mary's College a 
$2000 Shell Assist Grant for 1976. John W. Ludwig, sales manager of Shell Oil Company's Indianapolis district, presented SMC President John M. Duggan with the check at the College last week. 
St. Mary's will use the grant in 

• 
WATCH REPAIR 

• 
CLOCK REPAIR 


•JEWELRY REPAIR 
• 
ENGRAVING 

• 
ANTIQUE WATCH 


& CLOCK REPAIR 
•TIMEX REPAIR 
MARK D. HIRTH ~.~ 
Licensed Watchmaker 
~ 
HIRTH'S JEWElERS 
913 W. McKinley Hwy. 
College Square Mishawaka, Indiana 
(219) 255-3817 (219) 287·9893 
Business Home 
~Ti-lE HEAD GALLERY-
millions of' imported beads 
JUTE~ WAXED LINEN-P()LYESTER TWINE-READYMADE & MADE T() 
()HDER-MACRAME JEWELRY C(lMPLETE ;
11, 
AINE OF MACRAME SUfPLIES 
._ 919A' W. McKinley Ave. __ __(_ne_xt to B<?O~ie _Records). _.J 
Now aBose Direct/Reflecting bookshelf speaker and its 
under $100. 
If you thought it couldn't be done, you don't know BOSE. Because the new BOSE MODEL 301 speaker is just that. A bookshelf speaker that provides reflected and direct sound performance in the tradition of the internationally-famous BOSE 901® and 501 speakers. 
It provides such astounding performance for its size that, frankly, it's hard to believe that this speaker costs under $100. But it does. And, it's easy to place and can be adapted to all room environments. 
Come in this week and ask to hear a demonstration of the new BOSE MODEL 301 Direct/ Reflecting® bcokshelf speaker system. You really 
won't believe it ... until you hear it. 
~'. 
SM { · 
1 ~ 
'iI-~ 
'r
Iz TOWN AND COUNTRY +SHOPPING CENTER • 
I RT.20 
GO IRISH!! 

FOR YOUR FAVORITE 
WINES-LIQUORS 
Both Stores Open Nights 'til 11 PM 
LIQUOR · WINE 
10% DISCOUNT WITH ND-SMC 1.0. 
.. 
BEER· BEST PRICE IN TOWN 
Come You Fightin' Irish 
TO TOWN &COUNTRY 
BEAT the BEARCATS 
VOLUME DISCOUNT 
FREE DELIVERY 
TWO  FREE  
LOCATIONS  DELIVERY  
Town & Country  
Shopping Center  
Phone 259-3262  


--~J '. .• ,. ., .-· 
•• . • I .~ 
\.~ f 
f , f 
... . " 
•· Wednesday, March 10, 1976 the observer 1 1 
"' 
Irish fencers host Great Lakes meet 
by Paul Stevenson 
This weekend the Notre Dame fencing team will host the Great LakesFencing Tournament, as the fencers sharpen their lances in preparation for the NCAA cham­pionship. 
Notre Dame, defending GLT champions, will be pitted against 17 Midwestern schools. Three major contenders for first place, aside from Notre Dame are Wavne 
State _Dniverstiy, the University of 
D~tr01t . and the University of 
Wtsconsm-Parkside. 
The competition in all three weapons (epee, foil and sabre) will be keen. Compeating with the foil is Greg Benke of Wayne State a three-time Great Lakes Tour~a­ment winner and twice NCAA foil champion. 
Benke will face Notre Dame's Mike McCahey and Pat Gerard. Gerard was fourth in last year's competition while McCahey was given Benko his toughestbattleall year, losing 4-5 and 3-S. 
Mike Sullivan of Notre Dame will compete against contenders like give the Irish a shot at number one Mary Ann Duika and Rose Hal­in the sabre. Sullivan's major comb of Wayne State and Denise competition will be from Yuri Holmes and Susan Nagerney of Rabinovich and Daniel Sliwa, both Case Western Reserve. Iris from Wayne State. .Gericke a finalist in the Jr. 
Sullivan split 1-1 in a previous Olympic Trials, and Jean Hess will bout with Rabinovich, the 1975 represent the University of Wis­NCAA sabre champion. That consin-Parkside. defeat marked Sullivan's only loss • "Notre Dame has great depth and of the season. if the NCAA finals were like a 
The weight of Notre Dame's r':gular match with nine contes­chances in the women's foil rests tants per team, we would have an on Kathy Valdiserri. Valdiserri excdlent chance at being national placed third in last year's competi­champs,'' DeCicco commented. tion and first in 1974. She will ''However, a school can only 
send one representative from each 
weapon. Thus the finals are based on outstanding individuals rather
Stanford wins IH hockey crown 
By Bob Brink 
Strong defense and superb goal­tending by Stanford goalie Jay Cassidy spurred Stanford to a 3-0 victory over Off-Campus last night to capture the Interhall Hockey 
. championship. 
The offensive star for Stanford was Bob Ryan, who scored two goals on the night. Ryan got Stanford to a quick start as he fired the puck past Off-Campus goalie 
~l 
Eric Schram at the 2:30 point of the opening period. Dan Cole and Ed Anderle picked up assists on the score. 
Stanford continued to apply the pressure, and only 90 seconds after his first score, Ryan again put the puck past Schram. Cole and Glenn Karlberg were credited with assists on the play. 
Off-Campus regained its poise after Ryan's second score, and managed to skate evenly with Stanford for the remainder of the period. The play during the period was clean and quick, as both squads gathered a mere two min­
utes in penalty time. 
The action picked up in the second period as both teams began to take more shots and gather more penalty minutes. But nobody managed to put the puck into the net for the first 14 minutes of the period. 
Kevin Duffy ended the scoring drought when his slapshot from 30 feet out sailed past Off-Campus goalie Bob Stackowiac, who replac­ed Schram at the beginning of the period. Jim Fredian assisted Duffy on the score. 
In the final six minutes Off-Cam-
WANTED 
One GA tix to NCAA final in Rlilly. Will payS. Call Bob 1479 
Ride to Jamesto\Wl New Vorl< for break. Call Bill 3314. 
StUdent Ute council secretary needed. 2-3 hours per week. S student with some secretarial experience preferred. For 
rrore information call 283-6111  (StUdent  
Govt.)  or  283-8411(office  of  StUdent  
Affairs)  
Need ride to Boston for break.  Call Bill  

after 6 pm 288-0088 
W<11ted: Ride to Chicago. Leave Thurs. Cdll Debbie 6661 . 
Need ride to M.S. U. (E. lilnsing or vicinity) March 12 can leave 12 noon-call Bill 6827 
Need ride to long Island N.Y. for MaiT:tl break. C<11 leave Thurs. after 6:00 pm Share$ & driving. Call after 6:00 Chris 1417. 
Need ride to Boston for break. Call Pete 234-6352 
Ride needed to l'bth Jersey (Union County) Can leave Friday Call Tom 1649. 
Ride for 2 needed to Annapolis ..-ea. call Anne 7836. 
Ride needed to Milwaukee Friday AM at 
11 :00. My Grandrmther expects me for dinner. Call Tom 234-8952. 
Desperately need ride to the "Home of the Ayers" Rliladelphia ..-ea. CM leave anytime Friday. Call Kathy or Cathy 8056 
than an outstanding team," he pus failed to spoil Cassidy's shut­Overall. Off-Campus added. attempted only 13 shots on goal, as
out, primarily because his team­The Notre Dame contestants who mates kept the pressure in the compared to Stanford's 23 shots on goal. 
will participate in the NCAA's are determined by an individual's over­all season's performance. Each weapon has been singled down to two individuals, the first one mentioned having a slight edge. 
In sabre, Mike Sullivan (53-1) or Sam DiFiglio (49-5) will represent the Irish. f.1ike McCahey (41-4) or Pat Gerard (43-6) will work with the 
foil  and Tim  Glass  (49-6)  or  Ed  
Fellows  (45-8)  will  be  the  epee  
entry.  

The NCAA tournament will be held March 19-20. The major concern now is winning the Great Lakes Tournament. The tourney will start Friday, March 12, in the north dome of the ACC. The tourney will run from 9 a.m. to 4:30 
p.m. 
on Friday, and 9 a.m. to 3 

p.m. 
on Saturday. 



Off-Campus zone. 
ICOLLEGE GRADUATES! I 
MAHOGANY 
TRAIN FOR A CAREER IN LAW WITH JUST
1 F 7:30, 9:45 '"' -Th 7:00, 9:15 Sat 2:30, 4:45, 7:30, 9:45 
12 WEEKS 
OF INTENSIVE PARALEGAL STUDY As a Lawyer's Assistant, you can move ahead in a challenging and growing field!
~ FIf~~~~E~~~~~o~~~N 
ROOSEVELT UNIVERSITY, a major university in downtown 
Chicago, in cooperation with The National Center for Paralegal
Sat 2:15, 4:45, 7:15, 9:45 
Training, now offers qualified college graduates an opportunity 
to become skilled members of the legal team. Courses are
r~c 1 ilt~r-llf~u~e r=lix 
taught by lawyers. 
• 
Day Classes. Train to specialize in one of the following: Litigation; Corporations; Real Estate and Mortgages or Estates, Trusts and Wills. A twelve week course. SPRING SESSION: February 23-May 14, 1976. SUMMER SESSION: June 7-August 27, 1976. 

• 
Evening Classes. Generalist course; a more broad back­ground in Legal Research and General Practice. A twenty-four week course. SPRING SESSION: March 16­August 28, 1976. 


For more information, meet our campus representative at the Placement Office on March 25 or fill in coupon.
--------·SEND TODAY!·-------­
:MARCH SPECIAL!!!!! : 
Lawyer's Assistant Program 528
• 
ROOSEVELT UNIVERSITY Phone: (312) 341-3882 
• 
: EVERY WED. g THURS. 5-7 PM: 430 South Michigan Avenue -~ Chicago, Illinois 60605 •Please send me information on Roosevelt's Paralegal Program.
: PIZZA BUFFET : 
0 Day Classes 0 Evening Classes 
Name--------------------------------------------­
:ALL. YOU CAN EAT$1.92 PLUS TAX : 
Address___________________________________________ 
• 323 E. Ireland, South Bend 
City_______________________:State______Zip____
•
• 2313 Edison South Bend 
• 
Roosevelt University admits students on the basis of individual merit
• 420 Nappannee, Elkhart 
and w1thout r .. ~~·rl to race, color. creed, or sex.
• 
Need ride east for break. NYC . L T area. CCI'l leave Thurs. 4 pm will share $ . driving. Call Joe 1066. 
Need ride to southeast Virginia or Western /11\i£.5. Please call 6359 
Need ride to NYC, Albany, or <11'1\Mlere in between for 2: Sun. Non ..or Tues. 4-5706 
Need ride to Ft. Lauderdale. call Tara 5449. 
Boston area We need a ride either way. Pat 1416, John 8712 
Need NCAA tix for South Bend Regional. Call Becky, 7960 
Need ride to l'llorth Jerseyfor Break. Call 8466 after 11 pm 
Need ride to COiurri:>us, OH for break. Will share expenses. Call Greg 8936. 
FOR SALE 
For Sale: 20 gallon fish tank. lndudes everything. $50.00 Call Daile 289-8837 
For Sale: 10 speed Huffy Olyrrpia $85. ca11 Dan 288-3025 
For Sale: Bdelon "Beau Mai<" 
Raquetball Racquet (metal) with oover. Just restrung with stautite, rubber grip. 
A!rfect CDI'ldition. S25 or best offer. 277-2306 
Texas Instrument . SR10 1 .,r. -make offer. 6722 
For Rent: tumished houses, f\W to seven 
bedroom  Available for  Septerrber or  
June.  Call234-9~  
:  ..._,  

professionally and prol'll)tly typed. IBIVI Selectric II a1d CDI'll)lete
Classified Ads Papers 
FOR RENT 
For Rent: furnished houses, t'M> to seven bedroom. Available for Septerrt>er or June. Call 234-9364 
2 rooms for rent $40 call 233-1329 LOST AND FOUND. 
LDst!OrgCI'lic and Bio notebooks in B1gi­neering AUditorium. Please return ­Midterms! Call Jim 1646 
Found: NO ring by stadium .:all 234-5605 after 6: Identify 
LDst: Blue jacket with :·:.D. aest from pa1y at Dillon lost Fri. nite call 1600 
LDst: Grey plastic binder oontaining irrportant material please contact Pat 1956 
NOTICES 
lllinoisa1s: Does it strike you as peculiar thm a arldidate from a state with : .undrects of colleges and hundreds of thousands of students has to a>me to Indiana to get c.arr1)aign wlunteers? It v.ouldn'T IF YOU KNEW Governor Walker's remrd on education. Mike Howlett wants -,ou to make an intelligent decision about the governors race and wte at home over break. Mardl 16. For infor call Pat 8403 
Typing -former exerutive secretary experienced in senior essays. Disserta­tionS. 232-5715 typing service. Call 277-2922 
Accurate, fast typing. Mrs. D>noho 232-0746 
IBllfl Selectric II typing. Manuscripts, Dissertation. Experienced. 289-5193 
Monissey LDan last day to take out loans isM..-. 12 
PERSONALS 
La Gala Guggenheim "An Artistic Expo­sition" Beauxs-Arts Ball fi/I,;Jtrj't 27 
G.R 
This is the end. No rrore late nights and mttee (tea) F.A. 
2 students need rides to New Jersey for break. (Near Morristown) will share driving and$. Please call 7130 or 8706 
To Ben Ft-anklin, Happy Birthday! BAB 
R Wade G. I am a v.oman of my \\Ord, and here is ~r personal. When will I be getting mine? 
Congratulations Why Not: For a thousand straight days of rriling. Keep on truckin. The guys frOm Z 
A. H. Your dark. aJrty hair drives me wild. Take me <~Nay from all this D.J. 
Ceil: Thanks for being our rrom. l.Dve, AI,Tery & bill 
Blue-eyes: This is the last time! (For c3'M'lile) Aboy 
All N.D. Students going to R. LAuder­dale, MEET at the big "Big Daddy's" on CoiTI'11ef"cial on Mardi 17th. Celebrate St. Pat's in style! 
PIJI-Yea-Z, and FeanDan Go, It couldn't have been better. BBarroo and Nikker 
Ted: Happy Birthday Tiny . Block; You're phenomenally ugly Jack. Reenie 
Angelo, Do what you feel, not what you should. M. 
BABUSHKA LDve Loves Noone For LDve is of itself. Happy 21st Birthday! 
Barmi 
Drop all your cares, Ter. lJrt go of Hal, AI. Stop mwring the drills, Bill. Just listen to me. 
Stop looking grim, Jim. lJrt down your hair, Mar(y) Just throw down your pen, Ken, And get yourselves free!!! 
Lost: Brown wallet. St. Mary's during dinner, Monday night. Very important. Reward. Call Kevin, 3443 any time. 
Have a 
nice 
break! 
.•., 

_... 
~· .. ,... "1-:.·-..-:-. 

12 the observer Wednesda~, March 10, 1976 
lri~i~k OPm!!!isvi~f.!'As against Bearcats 
~ 

Sports Editor 
The last time Notre Dame faced the Cincinnati Bcarcats in basket­hall. the game didn't mean any­thing. No one paid too much attention to Cincy's 95-87 win over the Irish in last year's Midwest Regional consolation game because hoth team-. were on their way home. 
But this year the two teams have c,·erything riding on the match as they square off in the first round of the NCAA tournament's Midwest Regional this Saturday in Lawrence, Kansas. 
Few remember last year's Irish­Bearcat clash. and likewise. few know much about Gale Catlett's cagers. Overshadowed by such Midwestern powers as Indiana and Marquette. they have built a 25-5 record (after last night's victory over Dayton) in relative obscurity. Last week they downed Georgia Tech and Memphis State to capture the Metro-Six championship and earn their tournament berth. 
"They've obviously got a good balldub. just because of the fact that they're in the tournament," says ND assistant coach Dick Kuchen. who scouted the Bearcats. "They've got good size inside and good depth in their backcourt. They use a lot of players, they'll throw nine or ten guys at us." 
Cincinnati's team is basically the same one which downed the Irish last year in the Midwest consola­tion game, and Catlett has made no secret of how he felt about the match-ups in that regional. 
"In the Midwest Regional last year. there was no doubt in my
BiII Brink .==================================================================================================================================================================================================================================== 
The Irish Eye 
'' ' 
===================:=====================:=:=:::=:========:======:==========================================:====:::=:======:=====::=:=:=:========:==:::=:========::=:============:============================: 
NCAA picks

No it's not true that they'll award the NCAA championship to whoever wins the Mideast Regional.
.( 
but that division is stacked to the brim with talent. And it typifies the tournament field as a whole this
'. 
year as the NCAA opens its annual extravaganza this Saturday afternoon with sixteen games. 
So strong is the Midest Regional, in fact, that it overshadows the fine teams in the other divisions. While people are talking of Indiana. North Carolina. Alabama and Marquette, other great teams stay mired in obscurity. But only one can emerge from the Mideast dogfight. and the other 24 teams will be looking to reach the final four, surface from their obscurity and prove that there were other Regionals in the tournament. 
So, as the Irish Eye makes its picks. you make yours. 
EASTERN REGIONALS 
Virginia vs. DePaul [at Charlotte]: Go with the hot team and you've got to go with the Cavaliers. Led by Wally Walker and Billy Langloh they swept through three upsets in the wild ACC tourney. and they'll sweep away the Blue Demons. Herbst: Virginia. VMI ,.s. Tennessee [at Charlotte): Although the Keydcts were over .500 for the first time in 48 years, they won't get by Bernard King. Ernie Grunfield and Co. Herbst: Tennessee. Princeton vs. Rutgers [at Providence): Rutgers already won the first version of this game earlier in the year. and though Princeton will be tough. Ru tgcrs· Phil Sellers and Mike Dabney will be~ tougher. Hcrbst:Rutgers Hofstra vs. Connel'ticut [at Providence]: UCONN was hoping for a tournament bid, but the NIT is more their '>tvlc. They'll beat Hofstra. but its academic, because it-will be-their last win of the season. Herbst: Connecticut. 
\11DWEST REGIONAL 
Wichita St. "\'S. Michigan [N. Texas St.] : The Wolverines are just glad to be away from Indiana. They'll be glad if they can get by Wichita's Bob Elmore. but with speedy Ricky Green and big Phil Hubbard. they should be smiling. Herbst: Michigan. Cincinnati vs. Notre Dame [at Kansas]: The Bearcats arc better than most people know. except for Digger Phelps and the Irish. who, if they play well. are better than the Bearcats. Cincy probably can't stop Dantley. and they don't have the super quick guards to beat us. so go with ND. Herbst: Notre Dame. Missouri "\'S. Washington [at Kansas]: This will be one of the best opening round games. Unheralded James Edwards leads a Huskie team which, but for two close losses to UCLA. might be playing out on the ~oast. Slick Willie Smith wiJJ try to counter for the Tigers with his 24 point scoring average. It could go 
were the best two teams,'' he said <~ at the beginning of this season. 
That may be a little strongly put, but Catlett does have a good case. He boasts a young. talented team which has notched impressive vic­tories over the likes of Louisville and San Francisco. Even younger than the Irish, Cincy starts four sophomores and one junior. 
Leading the Bearcats is 6'10" center Bob Miller. Miller's strong inside game has earned him 15.3 ppg. and a 10.9 rebounding ave. Joining him up front are forwards Mike Jones and Pat Cummings. Cummings is a Dave Cowens-type player who is strong inside and also owns a good outside jumper. He is hitting at a 11.9 clip and pulls down seven caroms per game. Jones is strong and a terrific leaper, and hits 9.3 ppg. 
Heading up the Cincy backcourt is 6'5" junior Brian Williams. Williams loves the corner jumper and has used it to maintain a 12.3 scoring average this year. Steve ~ ··ti Collier, averaging 7.7 ppg. this Adrian Dantley will lead the Irish into the NCAA T:urnament aga1'nst c· · · h
afternoon. mcmnah t is Saturdayyear. is the other guard. Two fine reserves will also see a Jot of tough week -of practice in prepara­backcourt action for the Bearcats. tiun for one of the top teams in the Gary Yoder. a 6'4" junior, and country." Garry Kamstra,6'2" and a senior, Notre Dame will be Jed into the are scoring 6.8 and 5. 7 ppg. playoffs by consensus All-America respectively. Mike Ardis and Hal Adrian Dantley. The 6'5" junior Ward strengthen the front line. forward finished .the season with a 
While the Bearcats spent last 28.6 scoring average and a 10.3 week fighting for the Metro-Six rebounding average. tops for the Championship, the Irish took last Irish in both categories this season. week off. "I think having the week ND's sixth man, Don "Duck" off helped us,'' says NO coach Williams. has come off the bench to Digger Phelps. "We've had a finish second to Dantley in both tendency to be worn down by the playing time and scoring. Duck is end of the season in the past. But hitting 11.6 ppg. Center Dave now we're going to have to have a Batton adds 9.5 ppg. and center-
either way. make it Missouri. Herbst: Washington Texas Tech vs. Syracuse [at N. Texas St.]: This is the sleeper of the Midwest. and whoever wins will soon be laid to rest. Tech has Rick Bullock and a home cro~·d. so they'll have their brief moment of glory agamstoff-and-on Syracuse. Herbst: Syracuse. 
MIDEAST REGIONAL 
Alabama vs. N. Carolina [at Dayton]: One of the blockbuster games of the Mideast. this one should go to the Tarheels. Though dethroned from the ACC crown, Phil Ford and Mitch Kupchak are the ones to lead North Carolina back to the top. Barna's Leon Douglas can't stop them by himself. and his help isn't that great. Make it the Tarheels. Herbst: N.Carolina. Indiana vs. St. John's (at Notre Dame]: The Hoosiers nipped the RedmeP at Christmas time in the Garden. and right now, Lou Carnesceca's boys are the least of their worries. They'll at least double their earlier margin. Herbst: Indiana. 
W. Kentucky vs. Marquette [at Dayton]: AI McGuire and his band of Warriors will be waiting for the Tarheels or the Hoosiers two weeks from Saturday in Baton Rouge. Western is just a stop along the way. Herbst: Marquette. Western Michigan vs. Virginia Tech [at Notre Dame]: Eldon_ Miller's Broncos were so impressive against the Insh that you have to go with them. Herbst: W. Michigan. 
WESTERN REGIONAL 
Pepperdine vs. Memphis St. [at Arizona St.): If you don't know who Pepperdine is they're the team which beat out San Fransisco in the WCAC. They're 21-5 and rely on big man Marcos Leite. Still, Memphis St. has been hot, despite their loss to Cincinnati in the recent Metro-Six tourney. and behind Bill Cook they should take a close one. Herbst: Pepperdine. San Diego St. vs. UCLA [at Oregon]: Once again the Bruins seem like sure bets to end up in the final four, and the Aztecs 16-12 record indicates they won't dispute that. Herbst: UCLA Boise St. vs. Nevada Las Vegas [at Oregon]: Bronco coach Bus Connor will be bussing his team back to Boise after Jerry Tarkinian and his sharpshooting Rebels get through with them. UNLV boasts the highest scoring offense in the country and Boise has neither the offense or defense with which to counter. Herbst: UNLV Arizona vs. Georgetown[ at Arizona St.]: Georgetown a long way from home and everything is stacked against them. most of all the Wildcats 6'10" Bob Elliot. Go with Arizona. Herbst: Georgetown. Cinderella Team: Watch Virginia. Who knows how good they might have been if they weren't in the grueling ACC Conference. We may find out. They're hot and they know it. 
forwards Toby Knight and Bruce Kentucky and UCLA. The Irish Flowers are scoring 7.5 and 7.9 have never made it to the final four, 
ppg. respectively. Swing-man Bill though. The past two seasons ND Paterno is notching over eight has won their opening-round gamepoints a game, and guard Ray only to lose their second games. to Martin, who has anchored the Michigan in 1974 and Marylandbackcourt all season, leads the Irish last season. in assists with 107. 
Saturday's game will be nation­
This will be Notre Dame's 13th appearance in the NCAA tourna: ally televised hy NBC-TVS, starting 
at 4:15 (EST).
ment, a total which is third to 
ND icers to open playoffs against Wolverines tonight 
by Chip Scanlon 
It's an uphill battle for Lefty 
Smith's Irish leers en route to the 
NCAA playoffs in Denver. Colora­
do, and the first encounter begins 
tonight when the Irish engage the 
Michigan Wolverines. 
The Yost Icc Arena is the home 
of some of the leagues' finest 
skaters and Notre Dame is well 
aware of this. In their last clash, 
the Irish split the weekend series 
by winning in overtime on Friday 
night but were thoroughly domin­
ated in the follow-up contest. losing 
by a 10-3 margin. 
This time a split won't suffice 
though as the WCHA playoffs are 
determined by the most goals 
scored in the two game stint. A 
close loss on the first night isn't a 
big disadvantage as an offensive 
showing the next night exceeding 
the margin of loss the night before 
will tip the scale in your favor. 
But just the same. the first night 
will determine the style of play for 
the following night. A big win for 
either team might cause the victori­
ous coach to employ a conservative 
game plan, much like what Digger 
Phelps does in the other dome of 
the ACC with a lead in a close 
game.
In any account, the Irish will have to keep their eyes on Angie Moretto, Kris Manery and Dave Lindskog. Michigan's high scoring first line. 
Moretto has only seen action in 23 games this year but has been quite effective, scoring 21 goals 
A.D. named Mvp 
Adrian Dantley was named Most Valuable Player of the 1975-76 Notre Dame basketball team tonite at the squad's banquet attended by over 800 in the Athletic and Convocation Center. 
Dantley, a two-time consensus All-America selection and the U.S. Basketball Writer's Player of the Year, won the award for the second ti~e in as many years. Dantley fimshed the regular season with a scoring average of 28.6 for the Irish who open NCAA tournament play Saturday at 4: IS EST against Cincinnati at Lawrence, Kansas. The 6'5" junior forward from Washington, D.C., also won the Father Tom Brennan Award for free throw accuracy after hitting . 773 from the line. 
and assisting on 14 others. Despite 
being 17 goals behind his last years 
pace. Moretto has used his 6'4". 
220-lb. frame to stay in the thick of 
things around the opponents crease. 
Along with Moretto is K.ns 
Manery, a junior forward whose 44 
points this year include 35 goals 
and nine assists. Coupled with 
second line Dave DeBol, the Wolv­
erines third leading scorer with 32 
goals and 20 assists. these three 
provide an awesome scoring threat. 
The last time the Irish goalies 
tangled with the Wolves, Len 
Moher fared the best, yielding four 
goals in an overtime victory. John 
Peterson, ND's other netminder, 
was not quite as fortunate in 
stifling Michigan as he was scored 
upon seven times in two periods. 
Michigan will counter against 
Notre Dame's netter tandem with, 
their all-American goalie, Robbie 
Moore. Moore is sporting a 4.4 
goals against, equaling him with 
Lenny Moher and giving him a 
slight edge over Peterson who lists 
a 4.5 mark. 
The Irish will be without the 
services of sophomore center Geoff 
Collier who damaged ligaments in 
his knee while over-extending his 
leg trying to check a Badger 
in Sunday's game. The 5'9" center 
had his line flying in recent games, 
accou~1tmg tor the balanced scoring 
the Insh have been enjoying. 
Collier will probably be replaced by Steve Schneider who will move over t0 center with Tim Byers and Terry Fairhom flanking him. The fourth line will be composed of Jim Augustine and Ray Johnson center­ed by Mark Olive who will be skating with a sore knee he picked up over the weekend. 
After dropping two to the Wisco­nsin Badgers. Lefty Smith put his team through a rigorous workout that had his icers concentrating on their backchecking and defense. Too many times opposing skaters were able to skate in on the Iri~, i net unaccosted on either partial or clean breaks. 
In playoff hockey short-hanc~f· i situations are to be avoided at 11l costs and this will be· anot!.er objective for Lefty's bunch. The Irish spent a lot of time in the penalty box over the weekend and this interrupted their offensive minded style of play. 
Tonight's game will be carried on WNDU and WSND with face-off time scheduled for 7:30. 

