
Voting ;today 
Elec1tions held for SMC Assembly 
untversity of notre dome st m.:Jry "s college ' 
\ Vol. XI, No. ,1:( 
/friday, September 17,_1976 

by Kathleen Horgan Staff Reporter 
elections for Student Assembly representative are to be held in the LeMans lobby starting at 10 a.m. today. 
Mary Ann Stolze, vice-president for Student Affairs, noted the significance of the representatives, as the assembly makes recom­mendations over important issues such as parietals. 
"Proposals will definitely be made about parietals," she ex­plained. "The c"tent of them and how far they will go before assem­bly and administration is !lP in the air at this point. This is why good people are needed in the assembly. 

Football and Education are strange bedfellows. Whether Notre The only way to get your voice 
Dame should Cast Off The Gipper's Ghost or give more dramatic emphasis to football is explored on today's editorial page. See page 4... 

St. Mary's considers .Formation of H·PC
. 
by Nancy Stefkovicb Staff Reporter 

The formation of a Hall Presi­dents' Council is currently being seriously considered by the St. Mary's hall presidents, which would mark the first time that such an organization has been attempt­ed at St. Mary's. 
Julie Pelletiere, president of Holy Cross, explained that an HPC would ''extend unity between all of the halls." 
Vice-President for Student Af­fairs Mary Ann Stolze stated that the purpose of such a group would be to "keep a line of communica­tion open between hall presidents and students. Everyone on campus wants fo know what's going on and the formation of an HPC is a step towards this." 
The proposed council, Stolze noted, is similar in function to the Hall Life Commission already out­lined in the St. Mary's student government. She commented that the HPC would have a more defined purpose. 
In addition to organizing activi­ties and acting as a source of information to students at St. Mary's, the HPC \\COuld help coordinate social activities involv-
Nazz hosts ND Jazz Combo 

This Saturday at 9:30p.m. the Nazz will host the return of the Notre Dame Jazz Combo. Past group members Neil Gillespie, Bill Boris and Steve Calonje will be joined by a newcomer on bass, Sedrick Williams. · 
The opening performance by the jazz combo will be followed by an open jam session, which will provide an opportunity for persons interested in a position with the combo to display their talents. Sponsors expect a fine evening of jazz performances. 
It is also probable that some of the more talented folk entertainers will also make an appearance. 
ing Notre Dame. Hall presidents from both campuses met at an informal dinner Tuesday to discuss the possibility of such develop­ments. 
Stolze indicated that the pro­posed HPC would not only provide social activities with Notre Dame men but also "strengthen the relationship between St. Mary's · and Notre Dame women." 
Regina Hall President Elizabeth Cutter stated that the first meeting between the St. Mary's and Notre Dame hall presidents has already improved their working relation­ship. 
St. Mary's hall presidents will continue to attend the weekly Tuesday night meetings of the Notre Dame HPC. Any possible formal linkage between the two councils will be delayed at least until the St. Mary's HPC becomes more organized. 
Stolze expressed praise for the hall presidents. "This shows good initiative. The hall presidents are speaking up for the students of St. Mary's and are trying to do the best they can for them." 
As of now, the HPC is going through its formative process. The hall presidents hope soon to define its goals and draft a constitution. 

heard", she added, is to vote for the candidate of your choice in the elections. 
Carla Iacona and Maria Magnannelli, co-chairpersons of the election committee, expressed hope that the elections would be conducted as efficiently as possi­ble. 
Students will have a choice of candidates in all halls except Regina, where Mary Garret runs unopposed. Pat Payne, Shelly Meditz and Ann Deighen will seek election in Holy Cross, while Claire Hatch, Mary Rukavina and Debbie Simone are opposed in LeMans. McCandless fields four candidates, Kathy Murphy, Ginny Nask, Lynn Roberts and Grace Restivo. 
i
/. 
MARY ANN STOLZE 


Could affect election · 
McCarthy gets spot on ballo1 
by Gregg Bangs 
Executive Editor 
Independent candidate for pres­ident Eugene J. McCarthy has gotten a place on the election ballot in only 16 states, according to a story written by Warren Weaver, Jr., that appeared in the Sept. 16 New York Timtls. However, six of the states are important ones that could affect the outcome in a close election. 
The New Y<[)rk Times took a nationwide canvas and found that the former Democratic Senator from Minnesota "still has time to make the ballot in eight states, has filed suit to bet on in seven others 
and the District of Columbia, but has been shut out in 19," Weaver the Libertarian Party-25 states; stated. Peter Camejo of the Socialist 
Some of the states which the Workers Party-21 states; Lester 1968 presidential candidate has Maddox of the American lndepen­gotten on the ballot are Illinois, dent Party (he also appears under Michigan, Massachusetts, Ohio, three other names)-14 states; Tho­Pennsylvania, New Jersey and mas Anderson of the American Wisconsin. He supposedly filed Party -14 states; and Gus Hall of petitions with more than 20,000 the Communist Party -13 states. signatures in New York, but re-In a report filed by the Associ­mains subject to challenge there, ated Press on Sept. 16, McCarthy according to the article. said, "It's easier to get married in 
McCarthy lost his bid to get on Vermont than it is is to sign a the ballot in California when he petition for an independent cand­could not come up with the idate." According to the report. necessary amount of signatures. McCarthy said he was harried by His subsequent lawsuit was also "crazy laws" which favor the major rejected. parties. 
Recent polls have shown McCar-He said he has up to 40 possible thy getting close to 6 or.., 'lercent of vice-presidential running mates in the vote in three-way contests with several states. However. he would Jimmy Carter and President Gerald. "trust the electors" to choose the Ford. He would get three times as right one if he wins. mnay votes from Carter as he His campaign is spending would from Ford. $500,000, but may have to raise "a 
Presumabley, if McCarthy does couple of million dollars" to stay in that well come election day, he the campaign. McCarthy thinks could take enough votes away from people are afraid to give money to Carter to insure Republican victory an independent candidate. "They in several big states. This might are afraid to go on the record." He p~t Ford over the hill. does not receive any federal elec-
At the present moment, McCar-tion funds and believes there is too thy does not have a mathematical much emphasis on financial disclo­chance of winning the election be-sure to end situations like Water-cause the number of electoral votes gate. according to the report. needed for election are 207; the "There was no evidence that states which have McCarthy on the they were corrupted by material ballot only amount to a total of 207. influence, byt they were by power 
The article states, "Some Demo-and their desire for power," he cratic officials believe, however, said in reference to the Watergate that the McCarthy vote will fall off conspirators. markedly if it becomes impossible McCarthy added he might seek for him to win 'the election." Secret Service Protection. Only the 
Besides McCarthy's, the names Democrats and the Republicans are of six other minor-party presiden-; protected by the Secret Service," tial will appear on the ballot in a \ he said. "Pretty soon, only the dozen or more states this Novem-Democrats and Republicans will be ber. They are Roger MacBride of allowed to vote." 

:;.::y_~:::::::::::::::::;:;:::::::::;:::::;:::;.:-x*:-;;;.;~;:;::::o;::::::-;-;-;-;::'$:::~~'$::-;::o_~.;s::o..:::-;..~~~".:$: 
On the inside ...... . 
Action Express debuts see page 10 
Fr. Griffin replies to Fr. Toohey see page6 
,The conclusion of 'In loco Parentis' see~ge 5 

't:===T=h=e=N=a=z=z=I=·s=l=o=c=at=e=d=in=th=e==b=a=se=m==e=n=t=o=f=th==e=L=a=F=o=rt=u=n=e==S=tu=d=e=n=t=C==en=t=e=r=.======================dJ~O:::::-;~::::::-;~:::::::~:~"'.~~-:-;::::::o;-;.:::::::::"«:::'$:~:::~:::::"'«.~-;:::::::~-;-&.;.s:<».~O::~~ 
.. 

In Zambia 


----News Briefs--­
t========================lntemational 
South Africa Riots 
CAPE TOWN, South Africa--Mobs went on a rampage of arson and looting yesterday in the Cape Town area, encouraged by a power failure that plunged much of the Cape peninsula into darkness. Police opened fire to quell rioters and two persons were killed. 

Refugees Passed Up 
BANGKOK, ThaUand--Ships on the high seas are tending to pass. up boatloads of distressed refugees as Southeast Asian nations grow reluctant to give refuge to people fleeing Communist Indochina. 
~~~~~~=======Nationru 

Martian Life 
PASADENA--Biologists studying Mars from afar got their first biology test results from the Viking 2 lander yesterday and said, in varying terms of uncertainty, that Martian soil may contain life forms. 

Women Priests 
MINNEAPOUS, Minn.--The Episcopal Church's governing body of laymen is considering whether to join the bishops in supporting the ordination of women as priests. 

American Independent Party 
ATLANTA--Accusing the national news media of "blacking out" his camp~ign and expressing his support for, white governments in Africa, American Independent party presidential nominee Lester Maddox formally opened his national headquarters in Atlanta yesterday. , 

Hospital Sues HED 
~~APOUS--The Indiana Hospital Association filed suit in U.S. Dtstnct Court here yesterday against the Department of Health, Education and Welfare, claiming Medicare payments do not cover the government's share of hospital costs. 
.,___On Campus Today-­
Friday 

4 p.m.-meeting of the st. mary's board of regents in the board room. 
4:30p.m.-colloquim, "focal sets of submanifolds" by dr. thomas e. cecil in room 226, computing center, sponsored by the math department. 
5:15 p.m. -mass and dinner at bulla shed. 
8 p.m.-bible study in the grace hall penthouse. 
8:30 p.m. -1 a.m. -release yourself armory party with music by "big funky deal", $3, buses will be leaving the nd circle and holy cross hall, smc. 
Saturday 

8:30a.m.-game time, pre-game picnic at holy cross hall, sponsored by the social commission. 
9:30a.m. -"c" team notre dame rugby vs. illinois state, behind stepan. 
10:30 a.m.-"a" team notre dame rugby vs. illinois state, behind stepan. 
11:30 a.m.-"b" team notre dame rugby vs. illinois state, behind stepan. 
11 a.m. -film, "notre dame in review" in washington hall, sponsored by the alumni associa­tion. 
1:30 p.m.-football, purdue at notre dame. 
7, 9:15 and 11:30 p.m.-film, "the way we were", in the engineering auditorium, sponsored by the nd management club. 
7:30 p.m. -meeting for the· society for creative anachronism in the Iafortune ballroom. the subject will be "pillage at notre dame." 
Sunday 

7, 9:15 and 11:30 p.m.-film, "the way we were", in the engineering auditorium. sponsored by the nd management club. 
8 p.m. -meeting for anyone interested in the juggler, scholastic office, top floor of Iafortune. 
8:15p.m. -english lecture discussion, presented by prof. alfred kazin, city university of new york graduate center, in the library auditorium. sponsor­t-d by the english department. 



Kissinger's time limited 
By Arthur Gavshon Associated Press Writer 
LUSA~A. Zambia (AP) Zambian President Kenneth Kaunda told U.S. Secretary of State Henry A. Kissinger yesterday that he has "days, not weeks" to succeed in his effort to avert a racial war in southern Africa. 
Kissinger replied, "President Ford shares your view that time is running out. We Americans have an obligation to all and you can be sure I am conscious of the respon­sibilities I face." 
Five times in his short speech after Kissinger arrived from Tan­zania, Kaunda said black Africans will fight if Kissinger fails to work 

Springstein to debut at NO 
by Jim Bowler Staff Reporter 
Tickets for the Oct. 9 Bruce Springsteen concert will go on sale 9 
a.m. Monday morning at the A.C.C, Student Uniou. ticket office, and all A.C.C. outlets. All lower-level seats are $6.50 and bleacher seats are $5.50. 
The concert, Springsteen's debut 
at Notre Dame, should sell out fast, 
according to Jim Speier, concert 
commissioner. "I think people are 
going to want to see what kind of a 
show he has," claims Speier, "and 
they are in for a pleasant sur­
prise." 
Sophomores Jim Kotorac and 
Terry Barret plan to "go down to 
the , ticket office Saturday night 
right after d;. .... We'd line up 
earlier, but wet;•. t find anyone to 
wait during the game:" However, 
the A.C.C. ticket area will not be 
opened till 6 p.m. Sunday because 
of other schedulings. 
Pt 'paration for the Springsteen concert is not the only business on the concert committee's agenda. A massive refund campaign is cur­rently underway in connection with the cancelled America concert. Refunds for America tickets are out a settlement between blacks and whites in Rhodesia. 

"You have only a few days, not weeks, to succeed, because we all have reached the point of no return," Kaunda said. "If you don't succeed, the alternatives will be too ghastly to contemplate. 
"Our stand is clear. For us there can be no compromise. But what alternative do we have left to achieve for the people of Rhodesia what we have ourselves?" Kaunda said. 
Kissinger said he agreed with Kaunda's list of the fundamental issues in the developing racial confrontation -''the dignity of man irrespective of color, justice for men regardless of their color, independence and freedom for all." 
Tanzanian President Julius Nyerere told Kissinger earlier he was pessimistic about averting racial conflict. But despite the gloomy assessments of his hosts, 
U.S. informants said Kissinger still rates his chances of setting up meaningful black-white negotia­tions on Rhodesia and Namibia at slightly less than even. 
Kissinger apparently expected a firm stand by Nyerere and Kaunda on grounds that neither was likely to yield until hearing the outcome of talks this week between South African Prime Minister John Vorster and Rhodesian Prime Min­ister Ian Smith. Vorster is reported­ly urging Smith privately to soften his stand on accommodation with Rhodesian blacks. 
Smith won the backing of his all-white Rhodesian Front party yesterday to seek a settlement with the country's six million blacks. But delegates made clear he must hold out against enforced racial integration and stick to land laws allotting half the country to the 270,000 whites. 
Nyerere and Kaunda, who met last week with the presidents of Botswana, Mozambique and Angola to set policy on Kissinger's mission, were opposed to Kissinger meeting with Smith. Such a meet­ing might take place in Pretoria, South Africa, where Kissinger is to confer Friday with Vorster. 
In Dar es Salaam, Nyerere told reporters ''Africans would not be very happy'' if Kissinger treated Smith "as a statesman." The black presidents view Smith as a white supremacist who has forced them into conflict and oppose any meet­ing that would enhance his impor­tance. • 
U.S. officials said that although Kissinger thinks a meeting with Smith on Kissinger's terms is unlikely, there is little doubt he wants to spell out to the Rhodesian leader the implications of a refusal by Rhodesian whites to yield power. 


ND law student dies after prolonged illness 
Notre Dame graduate, Robert Francis (Rusty) Long, 53385 Wallace Drive, South Bend, ~ied yesterday morning in St. Joseph Hospital following a long illness . 
Long received his undergraduate degree from Notre Dame in 1969 and was a law student here until last January when he withdrew because of illness. 
He is survived by his wife, Patti and a daughter, Allison. 
Services will be held this after­noon at 3 p.m. in Sacred Heart Church. Burial will be in Cedar 


still being accepted at the A.C.C. ••G•r•o•v•e•C•e•m•e•t•e.,;ry~.....~........------·R•O•B-E•R•T-LO_N_G___.,. 
ticket office. They can also be exchanged for Springsteen tickets Monday. 
According to Speier, promoters for America, ''will do the best they can to arrange a spring concert. If America goes on tour this spring," insists Speier, "N.D. will definitely
be on their schedule." . The committee is also actively organizing a series of "Stepan
Shows," concerts that might not 

SUNDAY MASSES 
(Main Church) 
5:15 p.m. Saturday  Rev. Robert Griffin, C. S.C.  
9:30 a.m. Sunday  Rev.. Joseph Carey, C. S.C.  
10 45:  a.m.  S d un ay  Rev.  j  h o n  F ·  L.ahey,  C S C . . .  
12:15 p.m. Sunday  Rev. William Toohey, C.S.C.  
Vespers  will  be  at  7:15  p.m.  in  Lady Chapel.  

have name bands, but should be Rev. John F. Lahey, C.S.C. is celebrant. extremely entertaining. 


"Our pur-------------':"'"--------------....1
pose," responded chairman Speier, "is not to make money on these shows, but to bring fine entertainment ot N.D." 

(*The Observer1 
Night Editor-Martha Fan­ning Ass't Night Editor-Katie Kerwin Layout-Maureen Sajbel Copy Reader-Barb Breiten­stein and Tom Byrne Day Editor~J ean Powley Editorials-Tom O'Neil Features-Gregg Bangs, Maureen Sajbel and Don Salemi Sports-Fred Herbst 
HELD OVER! FINAL WEEK "HARRY AND WALTER GOTO NEW YORK" 

"AN ABSOLUTELY DAZZLING FILM -N.Y. TIMES 
· Carmen F. Zollo presents 
Ingmar Bergman's 


!:~ c5MAGICGFElJT&­
A~"' ~(>d.,, A B Pro1uctM, •A Sl.Jf!.F>OGATE RELE_ASE [Qi~ 
FRI. 6:45-9:15 sA;.c::uN. 1:45-4:15-6:50-9:30 
Typists-Morey . Blindet;, 

IF YOU LIKED "SILENT MOVIE" .. DON'T MISS .. 

Nancy Cueroni, Mary Mc­


FUN 
Cormick, Marie McCarthy MEL BROOKS 1 Night Controller-Terri J \Harlan . 
The Observer' is published Nonday through Friday and weekly during the surrrner session, except during the exams il'ld vacation periods. The Observer' is published by the students of the Univ. of Notre Dame and St. lllli!ry's College. Sub5aiptions may be purdlased for ($10 per semester) fro, The Observer', Box Q, Notre Dafre, lndiil'la 46556. Second Class postage paid, Notre Dame, IN 46556. 
SHOWS 

FRIDAY and SA TU RDA Y MEL BROOKS' 
ft...-.1--· 
~MIDNITE 

RON MOODY-DOM DELUISE-' MEL BROo"KS-BIG CAST 
-~~--------------~~-----------------------------------------------­


Campus lighting improved 
by Greg Besio Staff Reporter 

Lighting the grounds of the Notre Dame campus is a "perpet­ual problem" according to Sr. John Miriam Jones, Assistant Provost. The problem became so serious that four years ago a consulting firm was hired to redesign the lighting plan for the University grounds. "However," Sr. Jones said, •'the University officials found the proposal overwhel­mingly expensive." 
The proposal involved removing the entire existing system before installing the new one. Rather than waiting for the funds necessary to build the new system before taking action, the University has been gradually improving on the old system. The problem is that the system is reaching the limits of its 
capability. 
Last year, Sr. Jones and a group of concerned students took a walk­ing tour of the campus in an attempt to locate any spots which needed immediate attention. This led to a study by the provost's office and the drafting of a plan of action. 
Subsequently, over the summer, additional lighting was installed behind the Administration Build­ing, near Lewis Hall, on the path which goes diagonally from Sacred Heart Church to Howard Hall, and on the North Quad. Some lighting was installed near Lyons Hall but it is felt that more is needed there. 
Another area of concern, the general area behind the ACC and the path the Campus View apart­ments has been illuminated by a street lamp. In addition to thes~ new lights, most of the old fixtures now have mercury vapor bulbs which are brighter and give a more even illumination than conven­tional incandescent bulbs. 
Sr. Jones added that even though improvements are not at an end, she believed that the main­tenance crews had "gotten at the worst." Some problems areas that still remain are the grounds near St. Ed's and on the road near the Grotto. 
So far this year only one com­plaint has been received by the Provost's _Office about insufficient lighting, in reference to the St. Ed's area. Sr. Jones emphasized that improvements would continue to be made until lighting was at a "satifactory level." 

Mansfield spends last day in Se11ate 
ByTomRaum tour of the Capitol offered to all Associated Press Writer tourists. 
Mansfield, who has decided not to seek re-election after 34 years in public office, plans to spend some time in the Senate today before leaving with Sen. John Glenn, D-Ohio, for a long-planned visit to the People's Republic of China. 
An acknowledged authority on Far Eastern affairs who once taught the subject, Mansfield will not be back in Washington until after the Oct. 2 congressional adjournment. He said then he will spend two weeks campaigning for Democratic 
' presidential nominee Jimmy Carter and Democratic candidates in Mon­tana. Mansfield said he isn't sure yet whether he wi.ll return to the University of Montana, where he's still listed on the faculty, or take 

one of the some 20 other offers he~~~~~;;;;;;~;;;;;;;;;~;;;~;;;;;;;;;;~;;;;;;~~;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;. 
says he's received for a teaching job.
Mansfield provided the Senate with low-key leadership in a period that spanned the administrations of four presidents -Kennedy, John­son, Nixon and Ford -as well as the war in Southeast Asia and the Watergate scandals. 

Sociology Club to rneet to plan improveme111ts 
by Terri Blazi would survey all sociology majors 
Staff Reporter on what influenced them to choose the major, their opinions of cour­ses. and their reactions to last year's club programs. 
Another acti~·ity planned is a careers program with lecturers from various graduate schools. Possible speakers include repre­sentatives from law schools, med­ical schools, a Masters in Business Adminstration program and a school of social work. 
Singer said that the club may also sponsor a sociology convention at which graduates and undergrad­uates from various schools would present papers on various areas of sociology. 

• 
TACOS 

• 
IIIIIIOS 

• 
EICIUtAS 

• 
TOSTAtOS 

• 
TAIIALES 

• 
TMO tOO 

• 
lfAI TACO

• 
IAIIEQIE TMO

• 
BAft TACO 

• 
SPAIISI lOt tOI 

• 
CIEfSEBIIIER



• 

MORE AND MORE : 
IIJHitlll., lit 161 rEIETA/1/AN$. •• • '­MEATlESS TMOS, TAIIALES, EICIIlAtAS, 11111101, lEAl TMOS, ul TOSTAHS Ill 


Friday, September 17, 1976 
3 

rver met Senior Bar last night to decide on the direction of student leadership the coming year. The meeting was meant to perscribe priorities to student issues on both campuses. (Photo by Jim Hofman) 
The Notre Dame Student Union Presents IN CQNCER
T 


BRUCE_ SPRINGSTEEN 
and the E STREET BAND 
SAT· OCT. 9 Tickets $6.50 & $5.50 At the Notre Dame ACC Tickets on sale, Monday, Sept. 20 Available at the ACC Box Office, the Student Union Ticket Office, and ·all ACC ticket outlets. Limit 10 tickets er erson. 

,_. 

sp 
the observer Friday, September 17, 1976 

The Observer is published by student~, of the Univer­sity of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of eitller institution. The news  ion of a majority of the Edito­rial Board. Commentaries are the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and letters are encouraged to  Thomas O'Neil Dan Sanchez Chris Smith Gregg Bangs Val Zurblis Pat Hanifin  Editor-in-Chief Managing Editor Asst. Managing Ed. Executive Editor Executive Editor Editorial Editor  
is reported as accurately and  promote the free expression of  Bob Mader  Exec. News Editor  
as objectively as possible. varying opinions on campus. Editorials represent the opin-Business Manager Tom Fronczak Advertising Manager Mike Miller Photo Editor Tony Chifari  Maureen Flynn Marti Hogan Don Reimer Tim O'Reiley · Fred Herbst ·  Campus Editor St. Mary's Editor Copy Editor Features editor Sports Editor  
Production Manager  Martha L. Fanning  

Thursday, September 16, 1976 


Com men to ryl!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
Shaking off The Gipper's Ghost 

iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii~ Thomas 0'N e iI 
Football and education have always the limelight based on their educational been strange bedfellows. Somehow they record. Ohio State could hardly survive at have found themselves at home at the all. without Woody Hayes and his side­American university, but whether or not show. 
they are at home at Notre Dame has been Our stand, haply, is this:· As tired and 
based on a popular and over-tired myth: redundant as the myth may be, Rockne is Notre Dame is Knute Rockne, and educa­part of the Notre Dame membrane. In fact,
tion and Catholicism are secondary to the we note, that despite the strange Bed­veneration of a popular American sport. fellows relationship, we, and Notre Dame,The question of coexistence must be are happy with the accommodation and raised in sympathy of Notre Dame's accept that the Gipper' s Ghost is1mmortal. contemporary reputation: we have been With this understanding we may rational­
saddened and indeed humiliated by a ize student disappointment with Dan football loss perpetuated by a national Devine, and hope that our football record broadcast. The question is watered down is 1 and 10. But our disappointment over a to this: either Notre Dame must strength­less successful football record must also be 
en its educational reputation or improve its understood. Notre Dame should neither gridiron performance. Whether or not we cast off the Gipper' s Ghost or Dan Devine·. should shake off the Gipper's Ghost in It should. cultivate the strange bedfellows 
favor of an educational reputation, or allow relationship by improving our performance 

P. 0. BoxQ
our notoreity to be dependent on our in the classroom and on the gridiron. It is 

athletic performance is the issue. Our only part of the Notre Dame tradition: to other option is that the bedfellows relation­maintain the coexistence and improve our Deu Editor: one fu-nction -to say "no" to any
ship be maintained, and that Notre Dame performance in the classroom and on the 

The following Ombudsman Op-student, faculty or (God forbid)improve its performance both on a:hd off gridiron. It is also, thankfully, part of our eration Brainstorm entry blank administrator who dares challengethe gridiron. myth: Notre Dame is nothing short of was not an award winner the status quo. This is done 
The University of Chicago chose to leadership in Football, Catholicism and but it does seem to contain a when innovative solutions are eliminate its football program altogether, Education. Strange as all these bedfellows message worth sharing with the offered for problems which may or 
Notre Dame community. It may not exist in the eyes of
and yet kept its reputation for leadership in are, they are part of our tradition, our 

bears the official sanction of no ND's "Powers that Be." Blaming
the educational community. Harvard and heritage and, hopefully, our future. 

organization but we do not Fr. · Burtchaell for his exception­
Yale have tolerated football, yet survive in 

belive the idea contained herein al ability at presenting and de­necessitates such sponsorship. fending the "no's" that issue from our powers that be is akin to
Idea: blaming the boxing glove forRename the "Office of the 

injuries incurred during a Bengal Provost" to move aptly describe Bout: such a placement of 
the actual function that position blame denies the existence of a fist within the glove -a crucial 
P. 0. Box Q 

serves and make clear its purpose error in judgment if one desiresto the uninitiated members of our
Deu Editor: we have found the waiters over­campus needs to institute a new a way to stop the
to findcommunity:bearing, boorish and intent on social tradition to rival the ever punishment.

us our in strong panty raid. "tl[8 .•,.,c OF INTRIGUE" 
Questions of sexism aside, Tim rushing through meal llo.rql Read "Powers that Be" to mean
Olympic record time. Given I do not intend to take away from 
O'Reiley's response (Sept. 13) any individual or group of in­
thru the maze of our particular
displays a lack of human decency O'Reiley's evident lack of sensitiv­the traditions of this legendary structure--Pro­dividuals whose proximity to or
bureaucratic the
and kindness which l--and, I am ity, it's no surprise that he felt right University, but would simply like to propose for this year and years to vost's office has been the most relationship with Fr. Theodore 
sure, many others--find extremely at home. M. Hesburgh causes his/her1their
come that the evening prior to the illusory and thus the most disturbing. Apparently O'Reiley last home football game be desig­effective addition to that structure opinions to be considered at the 
feels (if that isn't too strong a word) Alfred J. Freddoso nated N.D. GIRLS PARTY NIGHT. in the last decade. Exposing time Fr. Hesburgh's decision on a that respect for others as human Assistant Professor Basically, the night would oblige its true nature will mitigate that particular matter is made. beings, no matter what their the girls of the community to throw effectiveness considerably, (Anyone not in such proximity or 
weight, must take a back seat to his 

a section l'arty in their respective in such a relationship can be own desire to be titillated. Dorms with free admission and A sense of injustice has caused considered irrelevant any and all However, O'Reiley's letter did refreshments extended to all the me to expose our administration's policy making at the University
clear up one mystery, viz. his males on campus.

Dear Editor: clever ruse:. :r.'r. James T. of Notre Dame.)
favorable evaluation of the Boar's I know that changes come hard to ·NO bureaucratic device should
Burtchaell has been most mali-
Head Restaurant. On the three Through the means of many some, but this just may be the be allowed to destroy an indi­
ciously reassessed by this com­
occasions (only the tirst by our own conversations concerning the social thing we need to start the ball vidual's reputation as thoroughly
munity as a devil reincarnate,
choice) on which my wife and I conditions at Notre Dame, I have rolling as the position of Provost has 
[Name withheld by request.] lurking in our midst with only
have dined at that establishment, come to the realization that this maligned Fr. Burtchaell. To clarify the purpose of Notre Dame's DOONESBURY by Garry Trudeau administrative hierarchy and to 
• f• .. 


-----------~-----~· 

Burtchaell: Life With (out)" Father (cont.) 
in our gifts and our service. It is an A Jetter I received just this summer boy and Is still. He also worked say for now I'm at -----'---.---uncanny thing to try to be the father ?f from a mother of a graduating senior seven days a week to help pay for the studying PubUc Administration.[ The a 21 .year-old bo_vlman. Some men fall; also gave me much thought: tuition and clothes. You know there is great thing about being here as opposed others succeed; most of us do some of 
His father died when he was only two no student that would give seven dlays to N.D. is that at --------I'm both. There are as many styles as years old. BeUeve me. it has been a a week all summer in order to get an Bifferent. In discussions and seminars I fathers, and as many different needs as struggle for me: no on, no water, no education, but he did. 
A letter like this from a lady I don't find that what I contribute generally Is sons.
Ughts, no telephone, no car. I had to even know makes me proud for her, but unique and pecnUar from the offerings of Because we accept this larger charge.
wald for miles to gei anything, 
also reminds me of the professor who those surrounding me. People are genuine-the natural parents of our students demandrain, sleet, or snow. But I did it. 
ly surprised at what I have to way··I really much of us. All too often at FreshmanHis father was in the hospital for two has had to feed his nine children on don't think they've encountered many Orientation I sense fathers and mothers years before he died. I walked twenty 
powdered milk and eggs for quite a people who view sodial problems from a desperately hoping that in a few short mlles to work at night to work 12 few years and of the othet professor who spiritual viewpoint. 1 suspect they feel I'm years we shall somehow be able to undo midnight to 8a.m. in order to have once had to read gas meters during the a bit odd and eccentric. For these reasons I any negligence or failure they have been food and clothing for him. He is summer because his teacher's salary was guess Notre Dame is one of the last places I g"uilty of during the past 18 years. And one that has had it very bard, though so meager, and of the priests who spend want to be at now. I really feel what yon alumni--especially those wh_o have n?t yet I don't mind, I did not mind it in their li~es in a single r~om on this camous. constantly came back to in discussion about been sobered by having thetr own ch!ldren the least. Father, ever since he made \wo y'ears ago, one priest on campus Notre Dame--we were a rather unusual pass through these restless years. or ~ho the tour out to Notre Dame with the received a letter from a recent graduate group of people with something very have forgotten how ·it was, or have ratsed 
senior class here at -------­h unique and rare to offer those we their children entirdy differently than they 
continuing his studies elsew ere, a encounter... themselves were raised, and then expectHigh School, he wanted to go there. 
lttter not unlike that whicn parents us in some crazy fashion to be able toSo he said, "Mom, I want tO work to 'ght recei've from a son who has appre-It seems really strange that my reaction . h f
t 1

mi . impose upon their sons t e same s Y e oget some money to be able to go out dated home and family only after leavmg to graduation has been counter to what discipline they lived under 30 _yearsthere." So he had a push mower and he them. I expected. Instead of nostalgia an earlier--well, some of these alum~! canwent around and asked people to let I've many good things to say about melancholy I feel very happy and am at write some unreasonable letters at times. 
him cut their grass for $1.25 an acre 
my four years a Notre Dame •· typically ease. I've done some very good thingsin the blazing sun, May, June, July, they center on the people who teach0 this summer · not the least of which But let me not end on a note ot 
and August and some in September. He there. 1 owe much to you, Father, and I is to feel a degree of self-acceptance complaint. With God's grace and our got me to let him get a boat so he want to thank yon for your friendship that I've never felt before. effort we try as parents do to helpcould go oystering in the evening when 
and concern • I want to thank yon for your At Notre Dame we assume the burden-boys (and now girls) into manhood (andhe got home from school and on 
love. some task of standing in loco parentis • womanhood). This is no small ambition. 
Saturdays. Then some days he would 
These past weekdays I've been reflect-We need not. To assume the strictly After having made even a career out trim fences for people, dig ditches, and ing on the education I received art academic responsibility that most schools of what is most people's great work so forth, in order to get money to be N.D•• particularly in comparison to what do would spare us much wrangling, much in life, we would not, I believe, choose 
able to go on to college. So, _Father, his 
I'm doing now, [I'll explain the immedimte heartburn, even much disappointment. to stand elsewhere than in loco parentis • hard labor did work out. He began 
events of my life ... to v_e_t_we_t.~y._t_o b_e_mo.re__t_h_or_o_u_g_h_go_i_n_g__~G~o_d_h_e_l~p_u_s_.____________________~
luerr--·~sum c.e________ __ __ __ 
work when he was only 7 years old to try 
•

and help me to pay the many bills that I had. He has been a wonderfil 
UNITED STATES READING LAB OFFERS SPEED READING COURSE
P. 0.-Box Q 
AT NOTRE DAME 
Dear Editor: ity, a society is being created which will smother all basic freedoms, I see no reason why the Univer­suppress elemental rights and sub­
. If you are a student who would like toUnited States Reading Lab will offer a 4 
sity should pay an outside agency jugate the people under an all­
make A's instead of B's or C's or if youweek course iri speed reading to a limited
to remove its dining hall garbage. powerful police state. If this 
are a business person who wants to staynumber of qualified people at Notre
Neither do I see any reason why process is completed, we will be 
abreast of today's everchanging acceler­
Mr. Brown should be permitted to 
Dame.
lamenting the burial of democracy 

ating world then this course is an
pick it up and feed it to his pigs; 
This recently developed method of
in Latin America." A few of these when a third plan would· not only 

absolute necessity. 
governments' policies are: Argen· 

instruction is the most innovative and ef­
cost the University nothing, but 
These free special one-hour lectures
tina, 11 priests and seminarians 

fective program available in the United
would also provide a new source of were killed; Chile, 2 prominent 
will be held at th1 e following times andStates.
University revenue. 
lawyers were expelled because of 
places.

I suggest that the garbage be 
Not only does· this famous course
their defense of human rightscompressed into small blocks, 

reduce your time in the classroom to just
before the OAS; Ecuador, 17stamped with the Notre Dame seal 

NOTRE DAME MEETINGS
one class per week for 4 short weeks but it
bishops (including 4 from the U.S.) alumni are coming this weekend for were arrested, interrogated and and sold in the Bookstore. The 
also includes an advanced speed reading 
Tuesday: Sept. 21, at 6:30 p.m. and
the Purdue game--why not try it expelled; and Paraguay, between 
course on cassette tape so that you can 
again at 8:30p.m. 
out? April and May 2,000 people were 
continue to improve for the rest of your
MoFlynn .1rrested. 

Wednesday: Sept. 22, at 6:30 p.m. and
life. In just 4 weeks the average student
' It is only through such actions as 

again at 8 :30 p.m.
should be reading 4-5 times faster. In a
Dear Editor: your exposure of these inju_stices 
Thursday: Sept. 23, at 6:30 p.m. and
few months some students are reading
that we will ever be able to rid the 

again at 8:30p.m. 
I would like to express my 

20-30 times faster attaining speeds that
world of these inhumane regimes.

appreciation for the article that was 
Friday: Sept. 24, at 6:30p.m. and again
For this reason, I would again like 

approach 6000 words per minute. In rare
published on September 15, 1976 
at 8:30p.m. 
to thank you for the articles that 

instances speeds of up to 13,000 wpm
concerning Chile. As was well you have published in the last two 
Sunday: Sept. 26, at 2:30p.m. and again 
have been documented.

expressed in your article, these 
years denouncing repression 

at 5:30p.m. 
Our average graduate should read
incidents of torture and repression especially in Latin America. 
Monday: Sept. 27, at6:30 p.m. and again 

7-10 times faster upon completion of the at8:30 p.m. 
course with marked improvement in 
Martin Garate, C.S.C. 

comprehension and conce~tration. 
For those who would like ad<jlitional 
TWO FINALMEETINGS 
information, a series of free, one hour, orientation lectures have been schedules. 
Tuesday: Sept. 28, at 6:30 p.m. andAt these free lectures the course will be again at 8:30 p.m. 
explained in complete detail, including classroom procedures, instruction meth­ods, class schedule and a special 1 time only introductory tuition that is less than one-half the eost of similar courses. You 2915 Mishawaka Ave. 
THESE MEETINGS WILL BE HELD AT
must attend any of the free meetings for 
NOTRE DAME CENTER FOR CONTIN­
information about Nqtre Dame classes. 
UING EDUCATION
These orientations are open to the
to 

public, above age 14 (persons under 18 If you are a businessman, student,should be accompanied by a parent if housewife or executive this couse, which
No 
possible}. 

took ·s years of Intensive research to 
develop, is a must. You can read 7 · 10 times faster, comprehend more, concen­If you have always wanted to be a trate better, and remember longer.
speed reader but found the cost prohibi­
western 

Students are offered and additionaltive or the course too time consuming ... 
discount. This course can be taught to now you can! Just by attending 1 evening 
ticket, bus ride and tindustry or civic groups at "Group
per week for 4 short weeks you can read 7
refreshments s 19 rates" upon request. Be sure to attend
'to 10 times faster, concentrate better and whichever free orientation that fits best InCall: comprehend more. 
your schedule. 
Don at 289-2019 

orPa~-~283-7102.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 


are not isolated events but rather are part of institutionalized terror. 
Throughout Latin America to­day, a new type of military dictator­ship is emerging. These dictator" ships are based on the concept of the "national security state." The Executive Committee of the Chil­ean Conference of Bishops accur­ately described this phenomenon, "under the guise of national secur-
Uhe WinJjammer 
CREATIVE HAIR DESIGN FOR THE SEXES 
RElAXING ATMOSPHERE 
FREE HAm ANALYSIS RK RETAU.. CENTER 
1637 LWW ' 
So. Bend 
• _.>. 
232-6622 
Appt. only.\-::~::~ ··. 

r 
the observer Friday, September 17, 1976

6 
letters to a lonely God 
agame ofchess 
Reverend Robert Griffin 

I can't help it, she said, pulling a long face, It's them pills I took, to bring it off, she said. (She's had five already, and nearly died of young George.) 
The chemist said it would be alright, but I've never been the same. 
You are a proper fool, I said. Well, if Albert won't leave you alone, there it is, I said, What you get married for if you want children? 
A Game of Chess'', The Wasteland --T.S. Eliot 

I don't suppose that the Catholic Bishops of the United States would defend me, if I were under attack. If some promin~nt Catholic leader said of me, "The priest Griffin just blew it," I doubt that their episcopal reverences would interrupt their separate confirmation tours to even in­quire what it was that the priest Grif­fin had blown. After reading Fr. Bill Too­hey's Opinion column in Wednesday's Observer. I wanted to put in a word on behalf of the hierarchy, though they woulcl.n't do as much for me. I wanted so much to defend them, bumbling badly like a team of clumsy comedians, that just a few moments ago, I called Bill Toohey, to ask if he would consider me unfriendly or ungracious, if I publicly disagreed with his column, titled "Bishops Blow It." (The title was not of Bill's choosing, as the Ed­itorial Editor sheepishly admits.) Bill as­sured me that he would still be available for taking Darby O'Gill for walks, even if I did disagree with him. "It will be you, Griffin, I will not take for walks," he said. 
"Well," I answered, "you never did take me much for walks anyway.'' As far as Bill Toohey and I are concerned politics will never make us strange b:dfe_l­lows, but it will never make bad frtenc of us, either. 
Every once in a while, there are evils that confront us as human beings that sicken the conscience of mankind. There was the slaughter of the six million Jews in Germany, for example. There was the segration of Blacks in America. There were the napalm bombings in the Viet­nam War; today there are the horrors of World Famine. As horrifying, to me, as these other evils is the almost mindless traffic in abortions that is taking place in the hospitals-and clinics of America. I am not insensitive (I hope) to the fears and pressures that might drive an unmarried girl or an over-worked mother to the ter­mination 'of an unwanted pregnancy; but does it not seem criminal to destroy an unborn child because the parents had wanted a boy or a girl, and intra.-uterine tests indicate that the infant to be born will be of the other sex? Does it not seem like an endless escalation of the evil when 
the government, having allowed abortions is also expected to pay for them so that every woman can· afford the costs of 
an abortion? (If we are financing the equality of citizens before the law, why doesn't the government provide funds so that every couple can afford a baby, if they 
want one?) Does it not seem like criminal manipulation when some welfare workers insist that women have abortions against their will, if they are to continue receiving public assistance? . . 
It is not only the two or three mtlhon abortions that have taken place that upset The real nightmare is the millions upon millions of abortions that will eventually take place, until the fig~re re~ched makes the six million Jews ktlled m Germany, or the fifty thousand Americans killed in Vietnam, seem like an expendable handful in terms of human slaughter. 
In the second section of The Wasteland, a woman's voice tells the story of Lil, wife of Albert, who had an abortion. The entire scene is an image of life in the Waste­land where nothing lives or grows. It is a 'terrifying picture of life in ~he L~st Generation, as the Lost Generatton ptc­tured itself to be. Could it be any more terrifying than the statistic o! ~ million abortions a year? More terrtfymg than totaling up the slaughter in a de~a?e, til we come to the statistic of ten mtlhon; then 
,. 
adding the totals of the decades, til the number of deaths exceeds all the deaths in all the wars that mankind has ever fought~ Could we do such addition without reah­zing the ways ·in which America the Beautiful could become a Wasteland as landscaped in sickness as any that the poets can imagine? 
The problems, of course, are so complex with arguments to be made and points to be conceded, for and against the abortion issue. But when the smoke of argument clears away, there is the more-than-Gothic horror of a nation intent upon ripping children untimely from their mothers' wombs; and there is the bloody spectacle of a country that sins against its very own survival. My imagination works overtime, perhaps, but a country so thriving in its abortion industry seems to be at some final outpost of empire. We seem intent on dooming ourselves and our civilization to a moral shabbiness, through which any empire, grown so decadent, would fall into ruin. 
Is the solution, then, for the American bishops to force the presidential candidates to come, hats in hand, to explain the :Republican and Democratic attitudes on abortion to the Cardinal Archbishop of New York? Doubtlessly it is dumb of the bishops to expect any good to come from their review of the candidates, who wring their hands and twist their feet as they play political games with their eminences and excellencies. The outcome may be annoying, embarrassing, and even risky for American Catholics, for there are rednecks and intellectuals alike in the country who aren't really fond of the Cardinal Archbishop of New York, and they resent having anything explained ~o him by the potentates of ~tate. But thts much must be said for the Bishops: at least, they are making the candidates speak out an accountability of ~heir ow!l points of view; that is not everythmg, but tt is something. Is it an intrusion of the Church into politics? Sure, but what the hell of it? We railed against the Bishops for not getting into politics by .failing to condemn the Vietnam War. We criticized them for dragging their feet in the Civil 
~a•••aaaaaaaaaaaaooooaoaocoac 
' ... the more-than-
Gothic horror of a 
.-.ation intent upon 
ripping children untimely from their mo-..hers' wombs.' 
Rights Movement. We are still embar­rassed by our fear that the Pope tried to do business with Hitler, and especially that he remained too comfortably silent about the deathcamps for the Jews. Now that we're faced with an issue that maybe even more consequential than Civil Rights, Vietnam, or the Holocaust, I'm not really worried about the Bishops trying to put the screws on Jimmy and Jerry. In the abortion issue, we've hit an iceberg, for God's sake; let's not worry whom we have sent out for the mittens. 
With the Bishops running interference, need we fear that abortion will seem like a Catholic issue (Le, mostly important to Catholics) as well as the Catholic issue, (i.e., the deepest concern that Catho~ics have in the campaign, with everythmg else, like World Hunger, being seco~­dary?) Well abortion is the ~athohc issue but it is also a human tssue. Hyst~rically, I suspect that our nation is approaching a crisis. wit~ abort~on .that, being self-induced, wtll brmg the JUSttce of the gods crashing down on our heads. I think it threatens us more than the possibility of planetary annihilat~on through bombs, or the failure of ecologtcal systems. As 'for world hunger, I hardly think we will abort ourselves to death without trying to impose abortion on the over-populated countries as a means, of trying to solve their problems for them. So much of what we may attempt to do to help the suffering nations is contingent on our own practice of abortion. 
I think I have a very great fear of death. Perhaps that fear makes me o.ver-sensitive in my reverence and awe for hfe. It seems to me mandatory for people to have a very great care in the procreation of life. ~Birth control information is so easily available today.) It seems mandatory, once they have created life, that people should have a very great care of defending it. They can't rip it up as they go, and still preserve their 

own decencies. 

The abortion issue is, I think, an awful mess. Jimmy Carter isn't going to solve it, and Jerry Ford isn't going to solve it, but please, don't let us beat the Bishops over the head; at least, they are registering a concern. We have been bitter at them in the past for not registering a concern. They shouldn't be made the bad guys of the campaign, the fellows wearing the. black hats (unless they're in uniform). At least we now know that between Jimmy and Jerry, as far as abortion stanas are concerned, there is not really much of a choice between the lesser of two evils. 
Politically astute prelates might have supported a coalition of Jews, Protestants, and Catholics to make inquiries of the candidates; instead, the Bishops sent themselves. God bless them for it. Even if their little machinations back fire, we should give them credit for trying to be witnesses. I, for one, am only a little embarrasseed by them. 
Anyway, Bill Toohey, after this emotion­al outpouring, Darby and I would certainly appreciate it if you would come over, and take both of us out for a walk, and maybe buy us ice cream. English toffee, please: a cone for me, a cup for Darby. 
And if you don't mind by saying so, Bill, I don't think the Bishops entirely blew it at 
all.---------~-----~----------,
magnificient meals in michiana: 
the down under 
It is not very close to campus (in the Ireland Square, just west of Scotsdale Mall). It is somewhat expensive, with meals ranging from about $5.00-$14.00. But for formals, birthdays, and graduation, many Domers head to the Down Under for their gastronomic gorging. 
As the name implies, the restaurant itself is down under the bar, which features live entertainment. The Qining room is decorated in a nodescript manner, featur-, ing booths and candlelit tables, and two semi-private wings (One with shelves of dime-store novels lining the walls). Such a setting will not disturb the placid diner. 
A waiting on the table as a appetizer was a basket of warm, inviting garlic toast, plus another basket of crackers and a small bowl of a zesty cheddar spread. These went down very smoothly with the redoubtable rye and gingers (Canadian Crown, $1..25). The service was performed well and m a friendly manner, though the waiter did confuse orders a couple of times. 
For openers, we indulged in the soup, which came with the meal. Fellow food critic Fred Herbst chose the hearty beef barley soup, preferred in a small, quai_nt, pewter kettle, which kept the soup teemmg hot. (Every course is placed on the pewter service.) The french onion soup I selected merited a good, though not spectacular rating. 
For the salad, special guest gourmet Gregg Bangs sampled the dinner salad of mixed lettuce, tomatoes, and french dress­ing. all of which he judged excellent. ,On the manager's recommendation, Herbst and I ventured on the Caesar's salad, a $4.95 concoction serving two. Perhaps because of its promotion as a "maitre-d's choice," the greenery proved something of 

the week in entertainment 
ON THE TUBE 

Saturday, September 18 
2:15 pm, Channel 28: CoUege Footb.all: The Ohio State Buckeyes travel to Umver­sity Park to take on Penn State. The second-ranked Bucks demolished Michi­gan State last week while the Nittany Lions struggled to a 15-12 win over the Stanford Cardinals. Although Penn State doesn't appear to have as strong a team a~ in pa~t years, it would be nice to see the Ltons wm and even nicer to see Woody Hayes lose, just because he takes it so welL 
6:00 pm, 16: Ara's World of Sports: Ara Parseghian hosts this show, an instruction­al program on different types of sports aimed at children. This week's show concerns women's volleyball. 
by tim o 'rei ley 

a disappointment. Mixed at the table, the 
salad consisted of a large plate of 
less-than-crisp lettuce with croutons, Ital­
ian dressing and parmesan cheese: 
Filling, but not enrapturing. 
In selecting the main course, one must decide if he is to sacrifice a bit of privacy for a bit of showmanship. In ordering the steak Dianne (also a Maitre-d's choice at $8.95), we encountered another course that was prepared at the table. Certainly, James is most proficient at his craft of tableside cooking (he made the salad, too), and a most personable fellow. But try to enjoy an intimate meal with a date when you might be splattered with grease (as was Herb~t), or when a· 3-foot ball of fire might suddenly blaze out, or when someone is just standing there the whole time. It might prove difficult. 
Should you care more about the food than possible distractions, the steak Di­anne will not let you down. Two round cuts of beef, they are broiled to order by James ; chew ever-so-tenderly, but release greai billows. The steak is marvelously comple­mented by a sauce mixed from the meat juice, Belgian mustard, a heavy cream, and a liquire, plus bits of onion and mushroom. Bangs complimented the New York steak he ordered as, "a tad charred on the outside, though on the inside, cooked in a manner that befits a great cut of beef.'' (In cidentally, it was broiled in the kitchen.) Accompanying the entree was a choice of potato. 
Over the years, the Down Under has acquired its reputation around NO, per­haps because the relatively high prices imply quality to many patrons. My meal could have been better, and Herbst felt let down, but Bangs enjoyed his. So, for the price, it deserves careful consideration before making the trek south. 
by d~vid o'keefe 

9:00pm, 22: Rock Music Awards: Diana Ross and Alice Cooper host the second annual Rock Music Awards from the Palladium in Hollywood. Scheduled to perform this evening are Cooper, Rod Stewart, Jefferson Starship and Peter Frampton. 
Sunday, September 19 
3:00 pm, 22: NFL Football: The Chicago Bears, showing signs of returning to the days of the Mon.sters of the Mi?way in their impressive victory over the Ltons last week, take on the Forty-Niners, winners last week over the Packers. 
6:00 pm, 28: Cos: Bill Cosby returns to TV with his own comedy-variety show. Guests tonight include Gabriel (Kotter) Kaplan, Cindy (Shirley) Williams, Lynda (Wonder Woman) Carter, Bruce (Decathlon) Jenner and "Chicago." 
----~-------­
l 

I
Presidential debate highlights television week 
Monday, September 20 
8:00 
pm, 28: Monday Night Foot· baH: The Oakland Raiders, fresh from an upset win over the Champ­ion Steelers last week, set out to avenge last year's humiliating 42­10 loss at the hands of the Kansas City Chiefs. Frank Gifford, Alex Karas and Howard Cosell report from Arrowhead Stadium in K.C. 

8:00 
pm, 34: In Performance at Wolf Trap: Beverly Sills plays Violetta, the dying heroine of Verdi's masterful opera La Trav· lata. Henry Price and Richard Fredricks also perform in the tragedy that begins the third season of PBS's fine operatic series. 


Tuesday, September 21 
8:00 pm, 28: Rich Man, Poor .MilD: One of the most popular senes of last year's season returns with most of its original cast as well as some new faces. The story line may sound more like a blurb for a Harold Robbins novel, but this series is highly interesting and very well done. In the opening episode, Senator Rudy Jordache decides to bow out of politics. 
Wednesday, September 22 
8:00 pm, 22: All In the Family: Archie begins his seventh season in, of all places, another woman's apartment. It seems there's this flirtatious waitress at the coffee shop who takes a liking to Archie just as Edith is called away to take care of a sick relative. • 
9:00 pm, 28: CharUe's Angels: I have to skip this one without comment. -My -editor gets mad when I drool on the copy. 
Thursday, September 23 8:30 pm, 16, 22, 28, 34: President· ial Debate: A truly important event, the two Presidential candi· dates engage in the first of three debates tonight sponsored by the League of Women Voters. Ford and Carter wil field questions from a panel of as yet unnamed newsmen in the Walnut Street Theater in Philadelphia. 
ON THE SCREEN 
Boiler House I: Shadow of the Hawk 
Boiler House II: Survive, a low-budget flick based loosely on the story of the Andes survivors.
® 
Colfax: Aloha Bobby and Rose and White Line Fever 
River Park: The Great Scout and Cathouse Thursday, a rowdy Wes­tern comedy with Lee Marvin, Robert Culp and Elizabeth Ashley. 
Scottsdale: The Shootest, starring John Wayne, Lauren Bacall and Jimmy Stewart in a Western adventure. 
Town and Country: A double feature exploring different ap­proaches to womanhood: Academy Award Winner Ellen Burstyn in Alice Doesn't Uve Here Any More, and John Cassavetes' A Woman Under the Influence with Peter Falk and Gena Rowlands. 
Forum I: Harrv and Walter Go to New York, a Sting-like ripoff flick with Jimmy Caan, Elliot Gould and Michael Caine. 
Forum II: The Magic Flute, Ingmar Bergman's highly-acclaimed love 
Like.agood neighbor, State Farm 
is there. 
with help for your car, home, life and health insurance. 
.. 

-ON TAP 
Junior Class Happy H-aur: Today from 3:30 to 6:30 at ~23 Notre Dame Avenue. Sexiit Class Presi­dent Pat Flynn has set prices at 2! for guys but only a buck for girls for all you can handle. Beer, I mean. 
Armory Party: Another beer orgy sponsored by the Student Union Social Commission, tonight from 
9:00 unti11:00. Everyone must take the busses, which will leave from the ND and Holy Cross (SMC) circles beginning at 8:30 with the last bus leaving the Armory at 1:00 am. Music will be provided by "Big Funky Deal" from Chicago, tickets are only $3.00 and, in the tradition of past Armory parties, everyone has a good time. 
Vegetable Buddies: Tonight and tomorrow night, Earl Taylor and the Stoney Mountain Boys, the first Bluegrass band ever to play Carne­gie Hall, pick and fiddle for your entertainment. Monday night it's 
Oean Gene'• Rhythm and Blue• 
Band and on Wednesday and\ Thursday nights is Chicago Blues. 
ON THE AIR 
WSND's Album Hour, Midnights Monday: Bread and Roses by Judy Collins with D.J. Mark Wallace Tuesday: Boston by Boston with John Sparks. 
Wednesday: Tom Gettings plays The Legendary Christine Perfect Album by Fleetwood Mac's Chris·­tine McVee. Thursday: A Night on the To~"D by Rod Stewart, brought to you by Rich Spellman 
aaaa 
PARTY 
Sat. Sept. 18 
7:30 -?? 1001 Corby St. 
25 KEGS 
next to the car wash 

. G'•across faromPafl' 





I 8 the observer Friday, September 17, 1976 I Carter declares 
Ford's record own worst enemy 
FIRST 2 DRINKS ARE 1/2 PRICED 
friday& saturday, september 17.18 
EARL TAyloR&TltE STONEY MOUNTAiN boys 
monday nights FREE ADMISSION 
clEAN GENE's RltyrltM & bluEs EXpREss ~L,JVL. M.USlc!, ~001) .N\t'D 1J~lN~, 
by Walter R. Mears AP Special Correspondent 

INDIANAPOLIS AP-Democratic presidential candidate Jimmy Car­ter said yesterday that President Ford is running against his own record in the White House now that he has ''finally and somewhat reluctantly" taken the road to campaign. 
"Now we know why it took him so long," Carter said. The Georgian flew here from Saginaw, Michigan and at an airport news conference, issued a rebuttal to Ford's campaign opening speech at the University of Michigan Wed­
. nesday night. From here Carter was headed for Baltimore and finally Washington, there to meet with Greek-Ameri­cans and to address an Italian­American dinner-Ford also is to appear there, but their schedules provided that they wouldn't meet. Carter said here that Ford has endorsed programs that he vetoed when Democrats pushed them through Congress, citing as ex­amples bills to have the govern­ment supplement interest pay­ments so people can buy houses, public works and other bills. ''The Republican nominee is finally running, but it's his record that's his major opponent." Carter said. " ...It seems th,at the major 
Hearst to be sentenced 
By Bernard Hurwitz Associated Press Writer 

SAN FRANCISCO (AP) · Con­victed bank robber Patricia Hearst will be sentenced Sept. 24, more than a year after she was captured and her bizarre journey in the terrorist underground came to an end. 
U.S. District Judge William H. Orrick Jr. said yesterday that he will hear arguments from opposing sides during a morning session and impose punishment in the after­noon. 
Miss Hearst, 22, could receive as light a sentence as time served, or a maximum penalty of 35 years in prison. She was convicted March 20 of armed bank robbery and using a firearm in the commission of a felony. 
Defense attorney AI Johnson has previously said that he will file an appeal immediately after the sen­tencing. 
Miss Hearst has been under­going a court-ordered psychiatric evaluation at the San Diego Metro­politan Correction Center since April. That study was completed last nronth and submitted to Orrick. 
Miss Hearst's trial judge, the late Oliver J. Carter, ordered a 90-day testing at the request of the 
128 nor~h 
debate is going to between the Republican nominee and his per­formance in past years." 
Cart•.~r said the Republicans are underestimating the intelligence and memory of the voters. "Mr. Ford hopes to make this campaign a battle of promises ... " Carter said. "Facts will be the basis of our campaign." ­
He said he believes he can beat Ford despite public opinion surveys that indicate concern among voters about exactly what he "stands for, and added that the trust of the people can be measured only on election day. 
"My assessment is that the 
people do trust me adequately to 
win a good victory in November," 
he said. 
Ford had made "trust" the 
central theme of his Ann Arbor 
speech Wednesday night, saying, 
"It is not enough for anyone to say 
'trust me'. Trust must be earned.'' 
Carter issued a written state-· 
ment of rebuttal to the Ford 
speech, citing statistics he said 
show that Ford's pledges were 
empty ones. 
He said there are 2.5 million 
more people unemployed now than 
when Ford took office. "Mr. Ford 
talks about jobs but he vetoed 
every major job proposal that came 
before him," Carter said. 
U.S. Labor Department statistics show there were 4. 9 million unem­
defendant's attorneys. After Carter's death of heart failure in June, Orrick extended the study. 
The newspaper heiress, kid­napped by the terrorist Symbionese Liberation Army on Feb. 4, 1974, testified during her eight-week trial that she participated in the April 15, 1974, bank robbery in fear of her life. She said she did not surrender because she feared the SLA or the FBI would kill her if she 
did.  
She has  been in cu stody since  
her  arrest  last  Sept.  18  in  San  
Francisco.  

Community org. to hold meeting 
Community Services, a campus volunteer organization which oper­ates through the residence halls, will sponsor a meeting Sunday, Sept. 19 at 7 p.m. in the basement of Badin Hall for all students interested in participating. 
Projects for the current semester include tutoring, visiting the elder­ly, parish surveying, Parish Part­nership, coaching recreation programs and restoring run-down homes, all in the South Bend community. 
ployed in a work force of 91.1 when Ford took office in August 1974. Last month there were 7.5 million, in a work force of 95.5 million, an increase of about 2.6 million. 
He said Ford talked of concern about housing, but blamed ad­ministration policies for rising pri­ces, interest rates and un€mploy­ment in the housing industry. 
Carter cited specifically the veto of the Emergency Housing Act of 1975, which the Democrat said would have increased housing starts by 400,000, created 800,000 new jobs and provided federal 
subsidies to reduce mortgage rates. 

He said Ford's plan to decrease the down payment under the Federal Housing Administration to President Gerald Ford's. · 
program would affect only 10 per r----------....;....;.________________'\

cent of the hou'iing market. On health and medical care, 
The

Carter said Ford had attributed to him a $70 billion health insurance proposal "which I certainly never 
White proposed or endorsed." 
Carter has advocated a national 
House 

health insurance program financed by general tax revenues and payroll taxes as part of a drastic reor­Inn ganization of the American health care system, but has never put a 
price tag on it. ROCK & ROLL WITH THE BEST BANDS IN THE 
Earlier, in Saginaw, Carter urged Mexican-Americans -former MIDWEST NITELY (Except Tues) migratory workers now living in Michigan -to register to vote. THIS WEEK: 570 BAND 
"It's not important when we came to this country. The im­

The White House Inn 683-9842
portant thing is why we came and 

2839 No. 51th St. Niles
what we do when we are here," he 

Take U.S. 31 to Niles, North on 51, 3 miles. 
told them. 

PERK UP FOR PURDUE 
AT THE 

FREE PRE -GAME PICNIC 
IN FRONT OF HOLY CROSS HALL 
FREE HOT DOGS 

11:00 til GAMETIME 
BYOB-
Bring your own blankets??? 
Sponsored by Student Union Social Commission 
EVERY EVENING michigan street. downtown south bend, 234-1431 
Friday, September 17, 1976 the observer 
9 

******************** 
CAMPAIGN 
76 Ford opens campaign 
By Barbll11l Breitenstein Senior Staff Reporter 
President Gerald Ford suggests the government "ease the burden" on familie~ with children attending "non-public schools"and colleges, according to a story by Dave Riley 
P.9. of theh.Associat:d Press .<AP). h 1n ts campatgn-opemng speec

********************at the University of Michigan at
• Ann Arbor Wednesday, Ford 

Pr'·mary VICtOrS emerge. 
touched on aid through taxes for
J parents who send their children to parochial and other private schools. 

battles shape up "or Nov Ford suggests the government
I 1 
• "find ways through the tax system 
by Patrick E. Cole Political Writer 

Daniel P. Moynihan won the support of Bella S. Abzug, one of his opponents in the New York primary, in his campaign for Uni­ted States Senator from New York. 
According to a story in the New York Times, Moynihan will be out to win the seat from Senator James 
L. Buckley who kicked off his campaign by describing Moynihan as "to the left of the majority of New Yorkers on such basic issues as inflation and the economy and the extent of Federal meddling in our lives." 
The Times stated tat Moynihan received 327,478 votes to 317,905 votes for Abzug giving Moynihan a one percent winning margin in the five-way Democratic primary race. 
Buckley, the Republican defeat­ed Peter A. Peyser of Westchester County 234,138 to 98,517. 
In Massachusetts. Senator Ed-
to ease the burden on families who ward M. Kennedy and Represent-choose to send their children to ative Thomas P. O'Neil won the non-public schools and to help 
Democratic renominations despite families cope with the expense of a the anger over Boston's antibusing college education.'' issue, according to the Times. Kennedy got 54 percent of the city Dud in 'key' states vote while picking up a 70 percent margin throughout the state. Ford opened his campaign at his 
Hubert H. Humphrey easily won alma mater, according to aides, "to renomination of the Minnesota rebut symbolically the notion that Democratic party by defeating Dick he lacked the scope, depth and Bullock, a political unknown. Sen­foresight to be more than a ator Humphrey will be opposed by caretaker Chief Executive." Gerald Brekee, a Professor from According to a Sept. 16 story in Gustavus Adolphus College. the New York Times, "Mr. Ford 
In Utah, Dan Marriott, a political contended in his address that he unknown scored a victory in the had led the nation on 'an incredible second Congressional District the comeback' from the turmoil of war, 
Republican primary. He is a favo­recession and 'corruption at the 
rite to upset Allan T. Howe, a highest levels' that confronted him Democrat, whose campaign is two years ago." being hampered by a sex scandal. But, according to the AP, it was 
The Colorado race was high­not just because of these reasons or lighted by Frank E. Evans who beat that Michigan is his home state the former union leader in the Demo­Ford chose to open his campaign cratic primary race in the Third there. Michigan is also the only 
congressional District. "kev" state in which he is leading his Democratic opponent, Jimmy Carter. 

Ford's campaign is "being ruled by hard numbers," the Sept. 15 AP story states, that indicate (he) will concentrate his efforts in ten key states, and his strategists concede that the "battle is uphill." 
Jim Baker, Ford campaign man­ager. points out that these 'ten states will be where the ''final duel" between Ford and Carter will take place. 256 of the 270 electorate votes needed to win will be decided in these states. 
Southern strength noted 

While Ford workers are con­centrating their efforts in these-primarily northern and eastern states, the President's own poll­ster, Robert Teeter of Market Opinion Research, is finding unex­pected strength for the Republican candidate in the South. 
According to a syndicated col­umn by Rowland Evans and Robert Novak, a "secret President Ford Committee (PFC) poll shows the 
: -TIMM PARTY STORE : 
:oPEN: MON-SAT 9 am-11 pm! : SUNDAY 12 noon-11 pm •
• 

: COLD BEER, PACKAGE UQUOR,: : WINE, GOURMET FOODS ! : 3114 S. 11 ST. NILES, MICIDGAN: 
:1 MILENORTHOFIND.-MICH. STATE-LINEON U.S.31: 
president surprisingly ahead of Jimmy Carter in Virginia 43 to 41 percent," and the race in that state is being called "neck-and-neck." 
"With the South becoming a battle ground," the article contin­ues, "Souther Republicans are lobbying for more attention from the President and his running mate, Sen. Robert Dole." 
. The poll also shows that outside the South, Carter is leading the President by only four poi'hts in New York, one of Ford's "battle states, indicating, according to Evans and Novak, surprising Ford · support in the industrial North." 
However, Baker admits that Ford backcrs are disappointed in surveys from the border states. according to the AP. "particularly Tennessee and are 'less than ecstatic' about results from Ohio 
l
and Wisconsin, two of the 'swing' 
l
states." 
~ 
Ford returned to Washington 
I
following his speech at Ann Arbor 
I
and was scheduled to speak to a 
j
dinner of the Halo-Americana Foundation last night. • 

! 

Hoosier candidates face off 
by Marc Rosenwasser Associated Press Writer 

Candidates for Indiana's highest political offices toned own their criticism of one another yesterday just long enough to talk about the issues. But the day was not without its usual share of political barbs. _ 
Republican Gov. Ohs R. Bowen and Democratic challenger Larry 
A. Conrad, fresh from a sparring match over the state's tax struc­ture, turned their attention to mental health care; U.S. Sen. Vance Hartke spoke of the nation's declining economic growth, and former Indianapolis Mayor Richard Lugar addressed the question of federal estate taxes. 
Bowen said his administration 


.........
~ 
coupon • $1.00 OFF : Towards any plant t or accessory valued : $5.00 or more • 
• 

Good Sept 17 thru Sept 30.
• 
has concentrated its efforts on the prevention of mental illness and has taken a more localized ap­proach to the problem. 
''This approach is less dramatic than une which massively uproots, tears down, relocates and reorgan­izes, but it is also an approach which is capable of being reali­zed,' Bowen said. 
Conrad, who joined the governor at the Indian Mental health Asso­ciation's 1976 leadership confer­ence at Indianapolis, said the state must commit itself to a timetable for rapid completion of community health care centers. 
Taking aim at Bowen without mentioning his name, Indiana's secretary of state said, "We may innovate administratively, ~nd build physically, but until the governor takes the lead in advoca­ting programs and policies diagnose, treat and protect patients, Indiana will continue to offer less than the finest of mental health care." 
Hartke heard his praises hursday morning by presidential nominee Jimmy ter, who said the senator candidate "in whom I have dence" during a press <'nonf"""''""' in Indianapolis. 
Carter denied reports that he attempting to keep some distance between himself and the three­term senator, who is belived to be running behind. 
CLEARANCE SALE 
at the 
PLANTATION 
25%-50% off 
All Plant Accessories Decorate Your Room House or Office With Quality Houseplants From our Greenhouse 

2613 S. Michigan St. 
WE DELIVER 
288-7611 

ANY COLLEGE OF SCIENCE STUDENT INTER­
ESTED IN REPRESENTING THE COLLEGE OF SCIENCE ON THE ACEDEMIC COUNCIL SHOULD SUBMIT NAME AND BRIEF STATE­MENT OF PURPOSE BEFORE OCT. 8th TO: 
STUDENT CHAIRMAN 
THE COLLEGE OF SCIENCE 
STUDENT COUNCIL c/e THE OFFICE OF DEAN OF SCIENCE RM 229 NEIWLAND SCIENCE 
FRIDAY 5:15­MASS& SUPPER 
A very infonnal gathering of good p~~le, •t ~~~a-Shed, the CampusM1mstry Ad1v1fles Center, the little green house at the comer of Bulla Rd. and Juniper On the middle of the blo~ aaoss from Grace Tower and 
the Ubrary). 
Everyone welcome -new students especially! 
J 
! I 
l 
Friday, September 17, 1976

10 the observer 

Action 
Express 
Q. Is there any way to ~d out what's going on on campus? 
A. You can call the N.D. Newsline #2211. Also, the student government will soon be putting out a news letter listing the events going on on campus for the week. 
Q. When do tickets for the Bruce Springsteen concert go on sale and will the Student Union Box Office take a personal check? 
A. Tickets for Bruce Springsteen go on sale the 20th of September and, yes, the Box Office will take a check in payment for the tickets. 
Q. When will the Quickie start running? 
A. The Quickie, sponsored by the Social Commission, will start running September 24th. 
Q. What are the closest hospitals to campus? 
A. The closest hospitals are Memorial Hospital which is down 31 at 615 N. Michigan and St. Joseph's which is down N.D. Avenue at 2154 W. Mishawaka. The number for Memorial is 284-7458 and for St. Joseph's is 259-2431. 
Any question? Drop them off at the Ombudsman Office in the LaFortune Student Center or call us at 283-7368. 
HAMMOND, Ind. (AP) -A three-judge federal panel ruled yesterday a minor doesn't need parental consent to get an abortion within the first three months Of pregnancy, bringing the Indiana abortion law in line with a recent 
U.S. Supreme Court decision. 
In their ruling, 7th U.S. Circuit Court Judge Robert Sprecher and 
U.S. District Court Judges Jesse Eschbach and Allan Sharp also barred the state from enforcing that portion of the law. ' 
"It's good that the government recognizes that such a decision is a very serious, personal matter,'' said Dell Chumley, a spokeswoman for the Indiana Women's Political Caucus. 
"Abortion is something that a· person has to consider very ser­iously, and that certainly can't be done when someone else is making the decision for that person." 
Indiana Right to Life, Inc., an anti-abortion group, said the panel's decision was inevitable, based on the Supreme Court's July 1 ruling that states may not require a woman seeking an abortion to obtain consent of her husband or of 
St. Mary's tourguides recruited 

A "Punch and Dip" Party was held at Stapleton Lounge at St. Mary's for all SMC students inter­ested in being tourguides and hostesses for incoming freshmen. At the meeting approximately twenty-five girls were informed on tour procedures and were given background information about St. Mary's. 
"Tours are an important factor in a students decision to come to St. May's. For most, it is their first experience with the the school ...and they learn what college classes and dorm life are really like," commented Betty Miller, a member of the Admissions staff. The tour also enables these girls to ask questions that they would feel uncomfortable asking members of the faculty or Admissions Office. 
The girls who signed up to work as tourguides are excited and looking forward to meeting the upcoming, students and their par­ents. "It was a riot." commented a girl who gave tours last year. "I had the best time showing these girls around SMC...they really appreciate your. efforts." Another girl added that when she came 
down to visit, "everyone was so,....--------------------------~-~-----------~--------------. 
friendly towards me that I want to 
do the same for these girls." 
Ind. politicians 
discuss issues 
(continued from page 9). 
It was those economic issues that Hrtke addressed at a luncheon meeting of the Exchange Club in Muncie. 
''The disastrous policies of the Nixon-Ford Administration have resulted in depressed production and high unemployment rates and have produced federal deficits to­taling $242 billion," Hartke said. The senator also said he has sponsored legislation to create a permanent tax credit of 10 percent to stimulate plant investment. 
At a meeting of the Terre Haute Kiwanis Club, Republican nominee Lugar said, ''the existing estate tax system is seriously outmoded, years out of date with the realities o1 today's farm values." 
He praised a House-Senate con-1 ference committee report that recommended reductions in federal 1 estate .taxes, which, Lugar said, "have forced many young farmers to sell family farms just to pay unfairly high tax bills." .. 
I 

Parental consent not required 
Aba.rtion legalized for minors 
Members from the biology and to answer specific questions that chemistry departments were also the girls ask." present at the meeting. "The 
If any St. Mary's student is purpose of having members from interested in being a tourguide or avarious departments present at weekend hostess they can contactthese meetings," commented Eli..:a 
the Admissions Office. Tours willBrooks, director of Admissions, '·.. 
be given Mondays through Fridaysto enable the tourguides to b;;: at 10:30 a.m. and again.· at 1 p.m.
better informed ·on the variu1. s and on Saturdays at 10 and 11 a.m.
departments...and they will be ahle 
• 
: Any College of Engineering student .inter-•. 
ested in representing the College of e Engineering on the Academic Council e e should submit name and brief staement of e e purpose before Oct 8th to: e 
• Student Chairman • • The College of Engineering • e Joint Engineering Council e e The Office of Dean of Engineering, e e Room 22, Engineering building. e 

her parent or guardian if she's under 18. 
''The absurdity of the Supreme Court's ruling has come home to Indiana," the group said in a statement. "Parental consent is needed before a minor can have her .;ars pierced, but to get an abor­tion, she is strictly left to her own judgment." 
Judge Sharp said he signed the order ''with the greatest reluc­tance," adding that he thought the Supreme Court's decision was questionable. 
"One of the basic ideas of Western thought has been the sacredness of human life at all stages," he said. The decision, Sharp said, reduced the fetus to ''a non-person and deprives it of constitutional protection." 
Despite the federal ban on enforcing the permission section of the Indiana statute, Don Bogard of the Indiana attorney general's office said: "We haven't made any decision on that issue yet. We will take a look at the situation anc decide a course of action within 3C days." 
The panel's decision was based on a 1974 lawsuit filed in U.S. 
District Court here by the Gary­Northwest Indiana Women's Serv­ices, Inc.; its Hammond director, Dr. William Lewis; and three pregnant minors. 
Carter's mike shut off 
INDIANAPOLIS (AP) -Jimmy Carter's microphone shut off sud-· denly yesterday as the Democratic president nominee was• criticizing Indiana Republican Gov. 0tis R. Bowen for refusing to debate his opponent. 
It happened just as Carter was getting to the punch. 
"I think anyone who refuses to debate the issues in an important election like... " Carter said as the microphone went dead. 
He paused a few minutes as aides scurried to corrett the prob­lem, then said as the p'ower came back: "You can see what Republi­cans think about debates." ' 
The point, by the way, was that not debating was a sign of mistrust. 



1 BLOCK SOUTH OF HOUOAY I~N 




Retarded child dies alone, ignored by family 
MIAMI (AP) · It took three days to find Lisa's parents after she died at the Sunrise School for the retarded. She had been brought to the school four years ago and never had a visitor. 
Lisa died Sunday when she choked during breakfast. While she was eating prunes, she began to shake and choking sounds came from her throat. 
"When they carried her into the nursing station, she was uncon­scious," said school director Leslie Leech. "She had stopped breath­ing." 
A rescue squad failed to revive the 7-year-old girl. 
She had been carrfed to her breakfast that morning. School employees said what she had want­ed to do most in her troubled life was walk. 
"She could crawl around the floor, but she was trying hard to walk and whenever she took a step, her face would light up," said social worker Mary Miskey. 
looked sad." 
The school last heard from her parents in February, when it sent a routine federal form to their last known Miami address. The parents signed the form and mailed it back. There was no return address. 
When police checked the address after Lisa's death, the parents had 
Morrissey Loan Fund $20 . lSO, 1 day wait. 1 percent interest due in
Campus Briefs-..... 
Workers at Sunrise also remem­bered watching Lisa when other patients had visitors. 
"She would sit in her wheel chair and look at the visitors," one welfare worker said. "It was hard 
Notices 
to know what was going on behind her big brown eyes, but they often 
• For free delivery and low prices on kegs just call Chip. 288-7878 

Writing 
contest 
The Collegiate Creative Writing Con~est is now accepting short stor1es and humorous essays as entries in their annual competition. 
Winning entries can earn prizes up to $100. Nov. 5 is the deadline for all submissions. 
For rules and official entry form, send self-llddressed, stamped envelopeJ to International Publica­tions, 474'/ Fountain Avenue, Suite C-1, Los Angeles, California 90029 
Omaha Club 
Students trying to start an Omaha Club are looking for a faculty advisor to aid in the club's management. The faculty member should have lived in some part of Nebraska and have some interest in the state. 
The club will try to organize a baggage truck, rides home at breaks, a concession stand, parties and home newsletters. Any Neb­
·~aska resident will be eligible. 
Any faculty member interested in the job of adivisor should contact Larry Drahota at 1773. 
Egan Co-moderator 
Msgr. John J. Egan, director _of th~ _Center for Pastoral and Soc1al 
Mexican art 
A major collection of Mexican folk art, entitled "The Root Itself is the Flower," is on display at the South Bend Art Center through Oct. 3 
The exhibit features items such as ancient ritual dance masks and clay funeral processions. 
Young Dems 
The Notre Dame-St. Mary's Young Democrats will have their first organizational-meeting on Monday, Sept. 20, in room 2-D of LaFortune, according to chairman ~au! Falduto. The meeting is tmportant, Falduto noted. 
Kazin to speak 
Alfred Kazin, a New York born writer and a featured speaker at the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's Bicen­tennial conference last March, will return to Notre Dame for a public reading and discussion, sponsored by the English department on Sunday, Sept. 19, at 8:15 p.m. in the library auditorium. 
The former editor of The New RepubUc will read from the third yolume of his autobiography, now tn progress. Earlier periods of his life were covererl in the first two volumes, A Walker In the City, 1951, and Starting Out In the 30's 
1965. I 
Kazin began his teaching career 
at City College and Columbia University and has been a guest speaker at several universities in North and South America, as well as in Europe. His most recent work 

Mm1stry at Notre Dame, will serve . as co-moderator of the plenary IS Brigh~ Book of Life: American 
sessions of a conference next 
month in Detroit expected to set social justice priorities for the Catholic church in America. 
The Call to Action Conference, sponsored by the National Confer­ence of Catholic Bishops' Bicen­tennial committee, will be held October 21-23 and caps a two-year program of the American hierarchy emphasizing "Liberty and Justice for All." The program involved discussion in some 79 parishes as well as six nationally publicized hearings in various regions of the country. Some 1,200 delegates are expected in Detroit. 
Msgr. Egan, a Chicago arch­di~esan priest who is also a special assistant to Notre Dame's presi­dent for relations with outside church organizations, founded the Catholic Committee on Urban Min­istry in 1967 and has had a major role in the development of spec­ialized ministries within the church in the United States. His co-mod­erator will be Alexis Herman of Atlanta, Georgia, director of Mi­noqty Women's Employment Pro­gram. 
NoveUsts and StoryteUers from Hemingway to Mailer, 1973. 
Jameson honored 
Dr. Kenneth P. Jameson, an associate professor of economics at Notre Dame, will be honored this week by the Joint Council of Economic Education for outstand­ing achievement in the teaching of _economics. The award will be presented during the annual meet­ing of the American Economic Association in Atlantic City. 
A native of Salt Lake City, Jameson received an undergrad­uate degree in history at Stanford University and graduate degrees in economic development and eco­nometrics at the University of Wisconsin before joining Notre Dame's faculty in 1970. He is a member of Phi Beta Kappa and a former fellow of the Ford foun­dation. 
30 days. La-fortune Basement, M-F 11 :1S. 12:15. 
Building full of antiques and used furniture at Traders Village -13000 block of U.S. 20. Mishawaka. 2SS-0314. 
Flanner Records now open for _business. L.. P. 's in stock and on order. List $6.98. Our price $4.65. 8-tracks and casseHes also avial­able. List $7 .98. Our price $5.75. Ask for prices and information on car decks and' speakers, blank tapes, 
C. B.'s, and <Other accesories. Call 1492 or stop by 809 Flanner HaiL 
Student Health Insurance still avail­able. For info come to Room lOS Infirmary or call 6S74, 3:30 . 4:30, Monday -Friday. 
Gay: Having or expressing a joyous feeling. Gay community of Notre Dame. P.O. Box 206, Notre Dame, ln. 
Will teach flute in your spare time. 
Call Beth -8112 for more info. 
Accurate, Fast Typing. Mrs. Dono­ho 232-0746 
Greyhound Bus to Chicago. Leaves Main Circle every Friday at 4 :4S. Call Tome at 8338 for reservations and further info. 
For Rent 
Students 3 bedroom apartment for rent, sss per person. Lease arid deposits 2SS-J20S. 1134 Lincoln Way West, So. Bend. 
For Rent, furnished six bedroom home, two baths, fireplace, 2 blocks from Notre Dame in safe neighbor­hood. $22S a month plus utilities. Also four bedroom furnished, four blocks from Notre Dame $17S a month plus utilities. 277-3604 evenings. 
4 bedroom house for rent in ND area. $3SO plus deposit. Call Jim Zimmer, (616) 445-2471. 7 a.m. 4:30p.m. 
Lost and Found 
Lost: Gold watch by trad. No Band. Reward. Call Mike 3207. 
Glasses to go! Glasses to go! Glasses to go at McDonald's. But where are mine? Clear framed glasses lost in vicinity of bars. If found call Tom at 289-0114. 
Lost: 1 black wallet in either O'Shag or Haggar on Wednesday. Des­perately need valuable infor. Call 288-7:76­
Wanted 
Need three Purdue fix: Will payS 1o a ticket, no more (sorry) --Call Bob at 2SS-8660. If not in, leave message. 
EMERGENCY! 
3 G.A. Purdue Tickets. 
Will pay anything. 
Phone 284-4452, ask for Judy. 

moved, leaving no forwarding information. 
Finally on Tuesday, the girl's parents read a story in The Miami News about Lisa's death and claimed her body from the city morgue. Officials refused to dis­close the parents' names. 
Leech said workers at the facilitv 
Classified Ads 
Need 2 Alabama tickets. Please Help-Call Peggy: 4-4381. 
Purdue ticket -please, please! Call Hogie at 178S. 
Need two Purdue tickets. Call Jim at 277-0067. 
Need ride to Cincinatti area Oct. 1, will share driving and expenses. Call 16S3. 
Mr. Leo C. Hansen is hereby announcing he is seeking a Purdue ticket. Inquire 16SO. 
Need desperately 2 Purdue tickets, call Chris at 6864. 
Waitresses needed . Apply in per­son between 2 -S :30 p.m. daily at Vegetable Buddies. 
I need 2 people for interesting sales work, car necessary. Call 272-1966. 
Need Purdue tickets, Call Ron 89S8. 
Need two GA tickets for Purdue. Call Mary Kay 6874. 
Need 6 Oregon tickets, not neces­sarily together. Call Robb;e 8706. 
Need 2 G.A. Purdue tickets. Call S194, SMC. 
Emergency!!! I need 2 Purdue tickets! Please call Chril 6881. 
3 'BAMA' tickets needed-anything reasonable. 877S. 
Keep laughing, but 1 still need two 'Bama tickets, G.A. preferred. Paul, 11S4. 
Wanted: talented or untalentd, creative or not, we need willing workers for this year's Homecom­ing. ALL interested persons who didn't sign up at Activities Night, please call either the Social Com­mission 6244 or Nancy 1333. 
For Sale 

3-piece bedroom set-SSO.OO. Good condition. Call 272-2520. 
New London Lake condominium, 2 bedrooms, den, 2 car garage. $33,900. Sandy Stroes 272-77SO or 272-2696. 
Sale: 1 senior season ticket. Best offer. 287-4770. 
'74 Toyota, low-mileage. Excellent condition. Fair price. 272-2131 evenings. 
Mexican huaraches -all leather with tire tread bottoms. Sizes 3 to 11 (will fit guys and gals) For more 
1 
information call Tony at 8212 or come by 1028 Grace to see.. $13. 
62 Mercedes, 4-dr., fine condition, radials, stereo 8-track. $1100. 287-7693. 
Personals 

The JUGGLER will hold a general meeting for all interested ND/SMC students and faculty on Sunday, Sept. 19, at 8 p.m. in the Scholastic offices -third floor Lafortune. Call 8211 for further information. 
lnte·~sted in a Bible study or fellt:t.,ship group? Caii7S9l or3214. 
were deeply saddened by Lisa's death. 
"The people on the staff aren't in it for the money · they get $2.27 an hour," he said. "They are here out of a great devotion for the children. These are their children and if one dies, it's like losing one of their own." 
Happy Birthday, Jumpin' Joe­our young Clarence Darrow, Don't trop bu for your 20th 'Cause we don't have a wheelbarrow. Love, The Rater and Princess C. 


Tolkien tans: help celebrate Bilbo and Frodo's birthday, Sept. 22. For more info, call Mike, 3 280 or Greg, 3344. 
Rick, did you see that last personal? Looks like you keep good company, but then that's obvious by your choice of employment... 
Happy Birthday (belated) to Jan & Giselle (and early) to Apple. 
Thanks for being you, Mr. Gill. 
Remember me when you're a rich 
and famous writer. 
B.A.R. Waht are you doing reading the paper?? If you need suggestions for something better to do, see me!!!. Carpet. 
Wine-Basted hot dogs, apples and cider. Sociology club cncessions. Saturday, Badin Hall. 
On Monday evening, the Night Editor would be overjoyed if she had a staff of 40 or SO to help celebrate her birthday--Happy 19th, Debbie! Je t'aime. 
Hon, Happy 8th! Love, Bun. 
Kiffy, Chuck, Jim and Rich, I've got my fingers crossed for the weekend. Good luck. 
Tim, Happy 21st Birthday! Love, 
Mariann and Arg. 
The Wild Bunch Ill would like to wish Mr. Joseph Burns (hack) a most rowdy and debilitating birth­day. 
Beat Purdue Kegger Party!!! Campus View Community Center, Friday, Sept 17, 9p.m. Dillon Hall sponsored. 
Happy Birthday Thomas, Ace. Backseat Tom, Muppo, Quiet Tom. Mullet, Karl Malden and Tom · 
Moffitt, Tom Moffitt. We love your •I pies. 
Friends anc· relatives are cordially invited to the nuptials between St. Camille and Daniel J. MacArudy on Sweetest Day, Oct. 16, 1976. 
Dan, Congratulations, I'll be a good loser, Sweet P. 
aHention!!! My name is Jim Gor­man and I will be 21 this Sunday. Cards and gifts will be appreciated. 361 Cavanaugh. 
To the Blond goddess of Badin . No one in the Dillon GheHo Gang loves you more than MaN deSalvo. 

.... 

ND looks to rebound a ainst Purdue 
by Fred Herbst Sports Editor 

With the nightmare of Tony Dorsett past, Notre Dame hopes to awaken tomorrow against tradition­al rival Purdue in an attempt to redeem themselves from last week's crushing defeat. 
·'An opening game defeat can ruin an entire season if you let it," Irish co-captain Willie Fry said. "Our job is not to let this happen and we'll work as hard as we can in order to bounce back.'· 
While the Irish are faced with the prospect of bouncing back, Purdue hopes to keep rolling. Last week the Boilermakers trounced North­western 31-19. Furthermore, in 
their last ll games at Notre Dame,
the Boilermakers have won seven, the most recent a 31-20 upset in 1974 that ended an Irish 13 game winning streak. 
''Purdue has a veteran team that is hungry for success," Irish head mentor Dan Devine said. ''Their 
opening game victory means they'll be coming in here with momentum and confidence in both their of­fense and defense. Our job is simply to forget what happened this past week and treat this week's game as another beginning." 
For this week's "beginning" to be a success for the Irish they must eliminate the errors that plagued them against Pitt. ''Of course we made mistakes,'' Devine said, ''the kind of mistakes a young team will make. the kind that we simply can't afford to make again." 
"The biggest factor in our im­

provement is time," Devine com­mented. "We need time to get used to playing with each other. I think the more experienced we get, the better we'll be." 
Notre Dame's defense will re­main the same as last week with the exception of defensive tackle 
Jeff Weston. Weston was lost to 
the team for the season last week when he injured a knee. His loss was complicated by the suspension of Jay Case for academic reasons. 
Fred Herbst 
Ken Dike, who took Weston's spot last Saturday, will get the starting nod this week. "I must say that Ken Dike did a tremendous job against Pitt considering he'd never played a down before Saturday,'' Devine noted. 
Tony Dorsett is gone, but the Irish will again face a premier back in Scott Dierking. Dierking, Pur­due's leading rusher each of the last two seasons, ran for 151 yards on 27 carries against Northwestern last week. 
Dierking is joined in the Boiler­maker backfield by John Skibinski and quarterback Mark Vitali. Skib­inski rushed for 88 yards against Northwestern while Vitali connec­ted on 5 of 11 passes for 83 yards. 
Vitali's favorite target is split
end Jesse Townsend. Tight end Nigel Wirgowski and flanker Reg­gie Arnold round-out the Purdue receiving corps. 
Forming the front wall for the Boilermakers are John LeFeber and Dave Lafary at the tackles, Tom 
Gibson and Connie Zelencik at the guards and Jay Venzin at center. 
The Irish offense will also remain the same as it was last week. Jerome Heavens, who paced the Notre Dame offense against Pitt, will again be called upon to carry the bulk of the offensive burden. 
Purdue will counter with a defense that boasts Heaven's high school rival Cleveland Pittsburgh Crosby at tackle. He's joined at the other tackle by Chris Barr and at the ends by Blane Smith and Kim Cripe. The linebackers are Mike Burgamy, Bob Mannella and Ken Loushin. 
The secondary has converted wide receiver Paul Berry at strong safety, Pat Harris at free safety, Jerome King at one corner and 
three-year starter Mike Northing-ton at the other. 
Boilermaker linebacker Bob Mannella interestingly dates the older sister (Mitzi) of Irish quarter­back Rick Slager's wife (Kris). 
Tomorrow's game will be the 48th in the intrastate rivalry. Notre 

who didn't pick a rash of upsets. Top-ranked teams like Southern Cal, Alabama, Texas and California fell victim while mighty Nebraska was held to a tie by little-respected LSU in the first week of the season. 
Michigan, Ohio State and Pittsburg proved to be the powers that many felt they would be, each scoring convincing triumphs. In all it was an interesting week in college football. Despite the early season losses, no team is eliminated from contention for the top spot at the end of the season since it appears there's a good chance that this year'sNational Champion will have a blemish on its record. So with the help of the "Wizard of Vegas", Gregg Bangs, here are The Irish Eye's picks for the weekend: 
Alabama at SMU: The Bear didn't appreciate last week's performance by the Tide against Ole Miss. After an opening season loss to Missouri last year Barna rolled to 11 straght wins and you can bet that they would like to do it again. Look for the Tide to roll. Barna by 10. Bangs: Barna by 17. Arizona at UCLA: Arizona hopes to fare better against the. Bruin~ than their neighbors from down-the-road did last week, but UCLA 1s commg off an extremely impressive rout of Arizona State. The Wildcats are tough, but Jeff Dankworth is super. UCLA by 7. Bangs: UCLA by 10. California at Oklahoma: This promises to be one of the weekend's outstanding games. California was upset by Georgia last week. and needs a win badly to get on track. Oklahoma isn't the team that ~t was la~t season, but they're still awesome. On the strength of Joe Roth s arm, 1t s the Golden Bears by 3. Bangs: California by 3. South Carolina at Duke: The Blue Devils scored a stunning upset over a powerful Tennessee club last Saturday, so they're obviously tough. The Gamecocks, on the otherhand, have one of the most underated teams in the nation. Buoyed by two one thousand yard backs and a quarter?ack that picked the Georgia Tech secondary apart last week. South Carohna by 4. Bangs: Gamecocks by 14. Pittsburgh at Georgia Tech: The Yellowjackets were upset by South Carolina last Saturday at home and need a win badly. Notre Dame found out last week just how good the Panthers are. Tony Dorsett is on artificial turf this week and he's almost certain to get his one hundred-plus yards. Pitt might not be beaten all year. Pitt by 10. Bangs: Pitt by 10. 
Penn at Dartmouth: What could be better than a football showdown in the Ivy League? Just about anything. Penn is traditionally an Ivy contender as i~ Dartmouth. Watch for the play of defensive tackle Greg Robinson to lead the green andwhite,past the tigers. Big Greeri by 6. Bangs: Darmouth by 7. Ball State at Miami [O.]:As ifyou can't tell, Miami is the Irish Eye's "pet team." Each of the last two weeks the Redskins have been upset, last week by lowly Marshall. Still it's hard to say no to Miami. Ball State is tough, and they're improving constantly. In fact, Ball State has the longest winning streak in the nation with 8. Miami of Ohio by 7. Bangs: Ball State by 3. 
~;, 
'<" ~ 
l"r'' 'M;''<' .....:
~·...•· 
, · 
f ,l:li. • ..:o--. 
fit -1 ~ ~.,.--~~.·:r:iY · · ·.;~ 

,lit l ' ,~ 
Notre Dame's hopes for victory tomorrow hinge on their ability to contain 
leading rusher Scott Dierking. Dame holds a 28-17-2 advantage in the series that dates back to 1896. Since 1957 the game has been contested for the "Shillelagh" Trophy, with the Boilermakers holding a 10-9 edge in the last 19 years. 
Last season in West Lafayette, the largest crowd ever to see a football game in the state of Indiana (69, 795) watched Notre Dame shutout Purdue 17-0. The game was closely contested until Luther Bradley intercepted a pass and returned it 99 yards for a touchdown in the fourth quarter to break the game open. 
Dave Reeve moved closer to Notre Dame's career field goals mark with his 53-yard field goal against Pitt last week. The boot, an Irish record and the longest ever 
kicked in Notre Dame stadium, gives the junior 19 career field goals. Bob Thomas holds the school record, having kicked 21 in his 
career. 

Ross Browner is now within one Kickoff is set for 1:30 p.m. The fumble recovery of tying the Notre tilt will be broadcast over the Dame career mark held by Jim Mutual Radio Network by Don Stock. Stock recovered eight fum­Criqui and Pat Sheridan and locally bles in his three seasons with the by WSND. The game will also be Irish. telecast on WNDU-TV. 
With tomorrow's game the Irish enter into the "Big Ten" portion of .--------------­
their schedule as Northwestern and Michigan State follow Purdue for Notre Dame over the next two weeks. Overall against Big Ten teams the Irish are 147-68-13. 
p II f • hf 
ep f8 Y 0n1g 
There will be a pep rally at 
7

p.m. tonight in Stepan Center. Speakers will be Ross Browner, Jerome Heavens, Dave Huffman linebacker coach George Kelly and special guest speaker George Con­
nor. The band will step off from Washington Hall at : and it is
6 45

requested that all bicycles be removed from the pathways. 
r.===============================::;:=================================;==============================================================================================================================================================================================================================: 
The Irish Eye 

=====r~~=t~!~r~~~==~==~r~~i:~~!==i~~==~=6=;=i~e~=~i:~=~:=~~fi~~;=~~~~~~it~:~=~~~~~========~~i~==~r~~:==~==¥~~====rm~~tt=~:~~==~=~ p!C?c!?!~~!!s!:!e~~!s,
meanwhile are coming off one of their biggest wins ever, crushing Southern Cal last week in Los Angeles. It's doubtful that Missouri is for real but no one will find out tomorrow. Missouri by 14. Bangs: Missouri by 10. 
Nebraska at Indiana: Only one thing could be worse than playing against the awesome Cornhuskers, and that's playing them after th.ey've just been tied. Nebraska is out to prove that last week was a m1stake and Indiana will pay the price. Nebraska by 21. Bangs: Cornhuskers by 24. 
Syracuse at Iowa: Iowa is trying to rebuild, but it has been a slow and 
painful process for them. Syracuse is also rebuilding under Frank Ma­
loney and appear to be making considerable progress, despite last week's 
loss to Bowling Green. Watch for super frosh Mandell Robinson to begin 
earning that famous number 44 (Jim Brown, Ernie Davis, Floyd Little) 
that the Orange brought out of retirement for him. Syracuse by 3. Bangs: 
The Orange by 3. 

Baldwin Wallace at Lehigh: Savage John Matt led the Engineers to a con­
vincing triumph over powerful Kutztown State l~st week and he's ex­
pected to do the same this week. Lehigh is probably the best team in 
Division II and they won't be beaten by a Division II school this season. Lehigh by 8. Bangs: Lehigh by 14. Stanford at Michigan: The Cardinals gave Penn State a scare last week before finally losing by three. They'll do the same this week with Mich­igan, but the Wolverines are just too good to lose this week. In fact, it appears as if the Ohio State game may be their only test of the year. Mich­igan by 14. Bangs: Michigan by 20. 
Northwestern at North Carolina: Northwestern is an improved club, but not improved enough. North Carolina is beginning to look as if they're for real with two opening season wins under their belt. Tomorrow they'll have be 3-0. The Tarheels by 14. Bangs: North Carolina by 6. Southern Cal at Oregon: Southern Cal is a lot better than they appeared last Saturday night. Missouri is tough, but that was a fluke. Look for 1 
Ricky Bell and USC to take out their frustrations from last week on the Ducks. Trojans by 17. Bangs: USC by 14. 
UPSET OF THE WEEK: 

Ohio State at Penn State: Ohio State rolled last week over a demoralized 
Michigan State club. Still, ~espite t~eir lack. of. oppo~iti~n t~ey were 
impressive. Penn State wasn t overly tmpresstve m thetr ttlt wtth Stan­
ford. The Nittany Lions are young and somewhat inexperienced and 
shouldn't be too much trouble for Woody's bad boys. But while you may 
not always bet with Joe Paterno when he's at home, you never bet against 
him. He's probably the best coach in the country and if there's a way to 
win a game, ~~~find it. Penn State by 3. Bangs: Herbst, dream on. 
Ohio State by'!&. 

LAST WEEK: an impressive 6-8-1, 43.3 pet. 
Mark Mclane 
Captain's Corner 
Revisiting last Saturday may 
help us as a team, but will be 
even more helpful to the "great­
est" student body in America. 
The team, myself included, play­
ed poorly, as poorly as the 
students acted. Any fan who 
would boo a ballplayer on the 
.field is, in my estimation, show­
ing his/her ignorance. What kind 
of incentive is it to enter the game 
on your own 5 yard line and have 
the "home" fans booing? I realize 
there are many other fans besides 
the students, but the students do 
have a responsibility to support 
the team. 
Knowing the offense, the strat­
egy for the game, and the 
personnel, I realize the injustice 
of one player taking the blame for 
11 people when offense screws 
up. There were many assignment 
mistakes and offensive break­
downs that caused quarterback 
sacks and interceptions. Many of 
the mistakes were directly attrib­
uted to the quarterback. 
If the fans (students included) 
knew what the hell offensive 
football was all about, there 
would b<: no booing. Offense is a 
team game. Team discipline and 
coordinated work are the key to 
success on offense. I grant you 
the Notre Dame team did not play 
like Notre Dame, but, then again, 
the fans were not true Notre 
Dame, either. I always felt ND 
was above bush-league tactics. 
Since the winter of 1976, the team has been preparing for the season. The winter workouts, spring drills, summer workouts and the hell-like two-a-days, were all aimed towards Pitt. There are seniors on the team, who al­though they will never play, bust their humps for the good of the team. 
If those seniors can stick it out and work as hard as those playing, the least the students can do is to show some confidence in the team. I believe some sign of support is due the Notre Dame Football team. The years I've been at ND, the greatest sign of spirit has been the tunnel formed for the team as they enter the field. I do believe this student body is the best in the country, and I also believe they will rise to· the occasion. 
GOOD LUCK TO US ALL!!! 






