
...... .., ­
~
·-v-~~ ~ii'\ 
.. ~~\ 


_server,~ 

ln independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's 

Ford speaks in Indianapolis, raps Carter on economy, promises jobs for everyone 
by Barbara Breitenstein Political Writer 

President Gerald Ford brought his bid for re-election to Indiana yesterday morning. speaking to over 1000 supporters at the Scottish Rite Cathedral in Indianapolis. The 
-two hour visit to the city is the President's only appearance in In­diana since receiving the Repub­lican Party nomination in August. 
Notre Dame Student Body Presi­dent Mike Gassman and student leaders from three other Indiana colleges and universities met brieflv with Ford prior to his speech. 
They extended their personal endorsements to the Republican nominee. 
Ford's speech dealt with the economy. He challenged Jimmy Carter. Democratic candidate's stand on the economy and prom­ised a job for every American who wants one. 
"Of all the differences between Mr. Carter and me," Ford ex­plained. "none is more important than our differences over economic policy." 
Unemployment too high 

Citing figures taken in a poll of the National Association of Busi­ness Economists, Ford said. "Sixty percent of these professional econ­omists replied that a Ford admini­stration would be far more likely to pursue economic policies in the national interest," while only 14 percent said Carter would do so. 
Ford credited his administration with reducing the rate of inflation from 12 percent to 4.8 percent recorded last month. He also 
Happy Halloween! 

Witches are people, too ..•• too frighteningly fiendish, too heU-­ishly horrible, too unrelentingly repugnant to be anything but students after midterms!! WeU, creatures of the night hours, cackling alone in your rooms until dawn, this is your night!!! 
credited his administra-tion with putting ··America back to work." 
''Unemployment is still too high." Ford admitted. "However. the great increase in the size of our iabor force is a sign of renewed confidence in the health of our economy. 
"But I won't be satisfied until every American who wants a job has a job." he said. 
The President arrived in Indian­apolis yesterday morning from Pennsylvania, where he had been campaigning Wednesday. Before delivering his speech, Ford at­tended a "coffee and doughnut" reception. 
Over 2000 people awaited Ford's arrival and departure outside the doors of the cathedral. where the President's speech was broadcast over loudspeakers. Ford shook hands with the crowd after the speech. then traveled to Cincinnati for more campaigning. 
Several students from the Notre Dame-St. Mary's College Repuli­cans and Democrats for Ford also attended the speech in Indian­apolis. 
In his speech, Ford also com­~ared the U.S. economy to that of :Jreat Britain. "I read about the current crisis in Great Britain." he said. "and it was worse yesterday (Wednesday) than it was before. The government spending in Great Britain accounts for 60 percent of the entire British economy.'' 
Ford quoted British Prime Mini­ster Jim Callaghan. saying. "We used to think you could spend your way out of a recession and increase employment by cutting taxes and boosting government spending. 
That option no longer exists." he said. 
We must not let that happen tc 
the 'united States." Ford warned. 
"As long as I'm President of the 
United States, we will avoid it.·· he 
declared. 
Attack on Congress 

The R~publican candidate once again attacked the Democratic Con­gress in his speech, saying. "If Congress had been smart, they would have given you that type of tax relief that would have given you next April $1,250 more in tax exemptions. How could Congress be so stupid not to do it?" Ford noted the Congress had failed to pass a bill which he had originated which would have provided such tax cuts. 
Ford also mentioned brieflv his debates with Carter. He proposed that these encounters "ought to be institutionalized.'' 
Making his own observations on the debates. Ford quipped, "I hoped that Mr. Carter would answer his questions, and fhat I would question my answers." Ford was alluding to his statement on Eastern Europe in the second debate. 
Governor Otis R. Bowen in Indiana introduced the President. who was accompanied on the platform by actor Forrest Tucker. who acted as master of ceremonies, Richard Lugar. Republican candi­date for the Senate from Indiana, and William H Hudnut, Mayor ol Indianapolis. Joe Garagiola, sports and broadcasting personality and a Ford supporter. also attended the speech. 
Friday, October 29, 1976 
Either Halloween is coming or students are beginning to show signs of wear and tear. (Photo by Debbie l<rilich.) 

Inside the Observer 
Halloween 
Dr. Jeffry Russell looks into the origins of Halloween and the current upsurge inSpecial ... interest in the occult. ...on page 13 
Carter en visions possible tax break resulting from reform in structure 
by Gregg Bangs PoUtical Editor 

Democratic Presidential nominee Jimmy Carter said yesterday he would institute economic programs which would bring a substantial tax cut. 
According to a report filed by Dave Riley of the Associated Press, Carter talked about the proposed cut at a press conference in Erie, Pa. When asked how large the cuts would be, Carter replied, "I don't know.'' 
Tax reduction 

The former Georgia governor also mentioned the possibility of the tax cut in an interview held in Pittsburgh. He told a questioner that instead of raising taxes there is "a much more likely prospect of tax reduction in the next four years. I believe it is almost inevitable." 
·Earlier in the campaign, Carter said he would change the tax burden to give tax cuts to lower and middle-income families by shutting tax loopholes, reducing tax rates and throwing more of a burden on upper-income taxpayers. 
New York rally 

In a speech Wednesday night, Carter stated his plans could increase revenues by $60 billion. That money, he said, could be used "partly for a substantial tax reduc­tion." The revenues would come from balancing the budget, cutting employment and steadying the national growth rate. 
However, a Carter aide later said the former governor was not pro­posing a tax cut or saying he expects a tax cut. The aide said Carter's statement meant if the tax level rs changed, a reduction would be more likely than an increase. 
Earlier Wednesday in New York City, Carter travelled to the Seventh Avenue block between 36th and 37th Streets, the tradi­tional site of Democratic rallies at the end of Presidential campaigns. There, according to Frank Lynn of the New York Times, he spoke to what was probably the largest crowd of his campaign for the presidency. 
At the rally, Carter said New York "is a city with a great life and a great future" and vowed, ''I'm going to do everything I can for you when I'm elected." 
"November 2nd offers us a chance to affirm the principle that people who live in our large cities are Americans and that no Amer­ican, however humble his position, should ever be beneath the concern of the President of the United States," he told an audience largely composed of union members urged on by labor leaders. 
The Times estimated that the crowd was larger than the one Sen. George McGovern drew in 1972, but considerably smaller than the three block crowd that roared approval of John F. Kennedy in the 1960 campaign. 
Unaccustomed Unity 
The rally was held not only for Carter and his New York sup,• ' porters, but .~1so to show unaccus­tomed unity in the ranks of the 
Democratic Party and labor in New York. Many ranking politicans and labor leaders were on the small platform set up in the garment center. Those present included New York Governor Hugh Carey. New York City Mayor Abc Be a me. Democratic National Chairman Robert Strauss, and Daniel Patrick Moynihan. the Democratic Sena­torial candidate in New York. 
In his brief eight-minute speech. Carter accused President Ford of being "indifferent" to the city and pointed out various budget. cuts and vetoes by the President. The nominee, however, did not spell out any personal program dealing with the cities other than a general promise to be "an active and committed partner" for urban areas if h~.. is elected president. 
In response to the reaction he received at the New York rally, Carter was heard to comment, "This is an absolutely unbelievable outpouring of confidence." 
the observer 
,... On Campus Today 
fnday ­

12 1S pm -travelogue series, "east africa" by jack petersen, in galvin auditorium, sponsored by biology department. 
4. lO pm -nieuwland lectures, "approaches to the structure tran~1tion states in enzymatic reations" by professor mildred cohn, room 226 computing center, sponsored by math department. 
\ ; 
4 lO pm -colloquium, "difference sets" by professor irving i kaplansky of the university of chicago, room 226·11 computing center, sponsored by math department .,. 
~*-''
'i F, pill -mass and dinner, bulla shed. 
7. 9 ,\lld -film, "american graffiti," engineering auditoirum, 11 pm ~pon~ored by sophomore class. 
7 . lO pm -hockey, michigan state university at notre dame. 
H .(rn play, "jacques brei is alive and well and living rn nazz. 
9 pm -costume party, knights of columbus hall, for members and guests, guests 50 cents, members free. 
H lO pm -quickie's first run from circle. one-way: 50 cents, all night 7S cents. 
saturday-

H am -test, graduate mamgement admission test, engineer­ing auditorium. 
H am to 

-information program, fun and learning program for 1 prn children with learning disabilities, havican hall, sponsored by children's dispensary. 
11am to -ceramics show, second annual michiana area ceramics 8 pm spectacular, ace. 
1 Pill to -retreat, day of renewal, registration necessary, bulla 
9:30 pm shed, sponsored by nd chqrismatic group. 
1 \0 pm -football, navy versus notre dame at cleveland. 
• 

7, 4 and ,. ff 
-111m "American gra iti," engineering auditorium. 
11 pm ' 

7.30 pm -hockey, michigan state university at notre dame. 
8 pm -state presentation, "walk together children" with vinnie burrows, broadway actress, o'laughlin auditor­ium, sponsored by black studies program and nd/smc theater, tickets: $1. 
8 pm -play, "jacques brei is alive and well and living in parit," nazz. 
9 pm -beaux arts ball, architecture building, sponsored by architecture department. tickets $2.50 at the architec­ture library, $3 at the door. refreshments and live music provided. 
sunday~ 
1 

pm to -ceramics show, ace. b pm 
3 pm -recital, 1unior voice recital with gemma capozzoli in the smc little theater, sponsored by music department. 
4 7 and -movie, rashamon, for collegiate seminar, engineer­10 pm ing auditorium. 
-; pm -meeting, cila library auditorium. 
8.. 15 pm -lecture, "new themes of man, woman and community m african writing," dr. james e. stewart, architecture auditorium, room 201, sponsored by english depart­
ment 



Psychology Dep't~ offers grad advice 
The Department of Psychology will hold its annual meeting to counsel prospective graduate psy­chology students in Room 200 of Haggar Hall on Thurs., Nov. 4 at 7 pm.
Various members of the faculty will be available to offer informa­tion and advice on preparing ~ 
1

applications to graduate psycho!­ogy ptograms. • · 


Business offers more electives 
by Chris Datzman Staff Reporter 

The College of Business Admini­stration has announced the avail­ability of some business courses for non-business majors for the spring semester. 
The following courses will have available space: Basic Accounting, Manufacturing Management. Fun­damentals of Management Sci­ence, Administrative Law, Law and 
the Individual, Management Re-
Phone books distributed Friday 
Associate Director of Printing 
and Publications, Carl Magel. an­
nounced that the 1976-77 Notre 
Dame and Saint Mary's phone 
books will arrive Friday, No. 5. 

The directories include both 
Notre Dame and St. Mary's and 
will then be distributeds starting 
Monday. Nov. 8. 

The cover of the directory fea­
tures a color photograph of a 
landscape. 


Sophomore formal plans outlined 
Tickets for the SMC-ND 

sophomore class formal go on sale 
today in St. Mary's dining hall or 
through Notre Dame hall represen­
tatives. The price of the tickets is 
$6. 

The formal. scheduled for Sat .. 
Nov. 6 will be held in Tippicanoe 
Mansion. South Bend, and will 
feature "Surface." For further 
information, contact Terry Touhy, 
4387. 


Bureau to aid student funding 
The American College and Uni­
versity Service Bureau has begun a 
program to help students obtain 
foundation funds. 

Dr..Robert J. Boileau, Bureau 
dire.·tor, explained, "Millions of 
dolla s originally set up in foun­
dations to aid students in varied 
fields goes untouched each year. 
Qualified students do not know of 
the funds and in many cases have 
never heard of the foundation." 
The Bureau hopes to make 
contact with students, both grad­
uate and undergraduate, and make 
them aware of these opportunities. 
Students interested in informa­
tion bout participating in this 
program can write the American 
College and University Service 
Bureau, Dept. F, 1728-5050 Poplar 
Avenue, Memphis, Tn, 38157. 

*The Observer"""~ 
Night Editors: Dan Sanchez, Chris Smith Ass't Night Editors: Martha Fanning, Joe Bauer, Paul Shappler, Maureen Sajbel, Maureen Flynn Editorial Layout: Jerry Hickey Features Layout: Dominick Si:ilemi Sports Layout: Val Zurblis Typists: Nancy Cueroni, Mary McCormick, Dan Roos, Kathy Egbert Early Morning Typist: Terri Harlan Day Editor: Jean Powley Copy Reader: Tom Byrnes Ad•l.!ayout: Beth and Pat Photographer: Debbie Kriliuh 
NOTICE 
Because of the need to better serve you d~ri_ng the Ho_liday Seasons, we suggest A1rhne reservations and tickets be confirmed prior to your departure date. This will enable us to honor your personal check. · 
FIRST BANK TRAVEL ON CAMPUS 
BADIN HALL 283 -7080 
search Seminar. Social Marketing will fill available spaces. and International Marketing. Students who wish to register for 
Enrollment is open to all non­these business courses should re­business students, not just Arts port to the following rooms at the and Letters majors. No prerequi­time announced by the Registrar: sites are needed, although the· Accounting -room 254. Manage­college recommends students real­ment -room 224 and Marketing ­ize that Manufacturing Manage­room 255, all in Hayes-Healy. ment and Fundamentals of· Man­The College of Business Admini­agement Science are very "number stration will not be offering a oriented.'' These courses are course description booklet. 
particularly recommended for upperclassmen in the Colleges of Hayride refunds Engineering and Science. 
These courses will cover the available at Union 
same material and be taught in the same way as regular business Students who purchased tickets classes. The only difference will be for the senior class hayride which the presence of both business and was scheduled for last night, but 
non-business majors in them. The was cancelled, may receive their exception will be Basic Accounting refunds at the senior class office in which is solely for non-business the basement of LaFortune Center 
students. between noon and I p. rri ... today The number of courses available 
and Monday. is a significant increase over past years. This year five more courses Bus changes time 
have been added and the college The Friday Greyhound bus to
hopes to increase this number in Chicago will leave at 5:45 p.m.
the future. However, presently. 
instead of 4:45p.m. starting today. 

space is limited and most likely For further information. call Tom at upperclassmen. especially seniors 
8338. 





PLACEMENT BUREAU 
Main Building 
INTERVIEWS SCHEDULED FOR WEEK OF NOVEMBER 8 
Interviews are for seniors and graduate students. Sign-up schedules are in Room 213, Main Building. Int.<!rview times must be signed for in person. Law School sign-ups are at the Pre-Law Society Bulletin l\oards, O'Shaughnessy Hall. The sign-up period at the Placement Bureau will be from 8:00am. to 5:00pm., Mond·ay through 1hursday. 
NOV. 8 American Graduate School of International Management 
Mon All interested students. McDonald's Corporation B in all disciplines. Stauffer Chemical Company B in ChE and ME. 
NOV.8/9/l0 Arthur Andersen & Co. Mon/Tu/Wed B in Acct only. MBA. 
NOV. 9 Aluminum Company of America 
Tues BM in BA and EG. Aro Corporation BM in ME. Pneumatic Equipment, Air Tools, Pumps. For Design and Product Engr. Bryan, OH. Citizenship required. University of Rochester. Grad. School of Management l\ in all disciplines. 
NOV 9/10 Olin Corporation Tu/Wed BM in ChE and ME. MBA with· tech background. 
NOV. 10 University of Denver. Grad. School of Bus. Admin. 
Wed All interested students. Federal Highway Administration BM in CE. Procter & Gamble Paper Division (formerly Charmin) BM in ChE, CE, EE, ME, MEIO. MBA with B in Engr. 
NOV, '11 Analytic Scien~es Corporation 
Thurs MD in EE and AE. Harvard Graduate School of Business Administratio~ All interested students. Naval Surface Weapons Center 
'BM in EE and ME. Naval Underwater Systems Center BMD in EE. Steelcase Inc. B in ME, MEIO, Mkt, Acct. MBA with Acct. Mkt background or concentration Texas Instruments Incorpor~ted BM in EE, ME, Met, Engr. Sci, Chern, Math. 
U.S. Steel Corporation B in ChE, EE, ME, Met. 
NOV ll/12 General Efectri.c Company 
Thurs/Fri B in AE. BM in EE, ME, MEIO, ChE, Met. Haskins & SeHs B in Acct. MBA with Acct bkgrd or concentrn. 
NOV. 12 · Columbia University. Grad. School of Business 
~ B in all disciplines. Corning Glass Works BM in ChE, EE, ME, MEIO, Met, Chern, Physics. Haggar Company Cancelled. Westinghouse Electric Corporation B in EE and ME. Dean Witter & Co., Inc. MBA primarily. BRA if undergraduate has had some previous military or business exposure. 
LAW SCOOOLS NOV 8 McGeorge School of Law Mon All interested students. 
NOV 10 University of Akron. School of Law ~ All interested students. 
NOV 12 Harvard Law School 
F;:y-All interested students St. Louis University. School of Law All interested students University of Toledo. School of Law All interested students. 
PLEASE NOTE: Arthur Andersen interviews will be conducted at the Placement Bureau, Room 222, Admin. Bldg. 
Haskins & Sells interviews will be conducted in the Ballroom area, LaFortune Student Center. 
Employer Information. Alternatives. Teaching. Summer. Action/Peace Corps/VISTA. Federal Service. 
Room 213, Administrarion Building. 
10/28/76 


Response to swine flu shots termed good 
------------------------~~.------------------------------------------------------------~--~----------------------------------, -friday, October 29, 1976 the observer 

Volcano expert fired for correct prediction 
PARIS [API · Haroun Tazieff. one of the world's leading authori­ties on volcanos, has been fired from his post as head of a study institute after a dispute over a Caribbean volcano that was sup­posed to el(plode like an atomic bomb last summer -but never did. 
Claude Allegre. director of the Global Physics Institute, a branch of Paris University, said yesterday he had dismissed Tazieff as head of the institutes' · volcanology ser­vice. 
Tazieff. 63, who remains director ofthe National Center for Scientific Research, said he was fired be­cause the institute considered he left the French island of Guade­loupe before ·all dangt;!r o{ an eruption by the volcano, La Sou­friere, had disappeared. 
Other sources indicated the firing stemmed from disparaging comments Tazieff mrdc about French scientists whe considered the volcano to be more of a danger than he did. 
The move came as Guadeloupe authorities resumed full municipal services and refugees were allowed to return to their homes yesterday for the first time since August in the island's administrative capital of Basse Terre. 
About 70,000 people were evac­uated from an area around the volcano Aug.l7 after scientists said La Soufriere's eruption was inevi­table. They predicted it could have the force of several atomic bombs and posed the danger of "mon­strous" and "catastrophic" dam­age. 
The evacuaion caused substan­tial economic losses on Guadeloupe and the government has instituted an emergency relief program to help offset the impact. 
Tazieff told a reporter he be­lieves his dismissal was a "per­sonal settling of scores." 
He said the position of Allegre, the institute's director, was that "if I had stayed in Guadeloupe I would have been able to calm down <~the population and the government wouldn't have had to go ahead with the evacuation." 
"My answer is that if you ask an expert like me his opinion, he's not there to serve as a tranquilizer,' Tanzieff said. "From May to September I said four times that La Soufriere wasn't dangerous. It remains extemely moderate and no one should ever have spoken about an eruption." 

1976 Urban Ministry conference to convene at ACC, Nov. 7 
Ministry toward empowerment­-social ministry as a way of empowering others--will be the focus of th 1976 annual conference of the Catholic Committee on Urban Ministrv (CCUM). to be held at the Univer"sitv of Notre Dame Athletic and C~nvocation Center Nov. 7-11. 
This year's meeting marks the lOth anniversary of CCUM's founding in 1967 by Msgr. John J. Egan . then pastor of Chicago's Presentation Parish. When he joined the University's staff in 1970, Msgr. Egan brought the secretariat of the organization to Notre Dame. 
/ 

CCUM is a national network of priests. religious and lay persons who support each other in their social justice activities. The 1976 meeting is billed as a "demon­stration of that network of support." 
The expected 500 participants 
quickly. one of the rescue workersAdmiSSIOns based testi_fied yesterday. Dtvcr Fred Hurt was the first commercial diver called to the0 n aPpiI"Cant's race scene Oct. 20 after the Norwegian
"b" d tanker Frosta rammed and cap-
now prohI 1te sized the comn:t~ter fe_rry. 
State authonttes satd 72 bodies were recovered from the ferry. Six SAN FRANCISCO (AP) -The persons are missing and 18 sur-
California Supreme Court yester-..----------------------------•
day confirmed its decision to strike 
down special minority admissions 
SUNDAY MASSES 
programs in University of Californ­
ia professional schools, refusing a 
(Main Church) 
petition by the university to rehear 
the case. 
5:15p.m. Saturday Rev. Robert Griffin, C.S.C. 
9:30 a.m. Sunday Rev. Joseph Carey, C.S.C.
The action set the stage for a 
showdown in the U.S. Supreme 
10 :45 a.m. Sunday Rev. Edward Kilmartin, S.J.
Court over the issue of so-called 
12:15 p.m. Sunday Rev. William Toohey, C.S.C. 
reverse discrimination. 
Vespers will be at 7:15 p.m. in Lady Cahpel. a stay in implementing its Sept. 16 
The state court declined to grant 
The Celebrant will be Rev. Edward Kilmartin S.J. decision in Bakke vs. University of t============================:.l
California that minority admissions J 
programs violated equal protection rights guaranteed under the 14t Amendment. 
Modifying its original· opinion the court also ordered that All Bakke be admitted to the medical school at the University of Californ­ia at Davis. Bakke. 36, had con tended he had been denied adm sion because he was white. 
Special admissions using race as a criterion are now prohibited on all nine campuses of the state univer­sity system as a result of the court's decision. said Donald L. Reidharr. general counsel for the university's board of regents. 
Bakke applied for admission to the University of California-Davis. medical school in 1973 and 1974 and was rejected both years. 
will spend most of the five-day conference in "something-to-say" workshops on specific issues and ministries. which they will offer themselves for each other, and in workshops on community organi­zation conducted by professionals from community organizer training centers. 
Rev. Philip Murnion, newly elected chairman of CCUM's board of directors. will open the meeting at 8:15p.m. Sunday, Nov.7. with a 'State of CCUM" address. Father Murnion replaced Msgr. Egan, 

Precious hours passed before divers were called 
NEW ORLEANS (AP) -Some of the 72 persons killed after the ferry George Prince sank in the Missis­sippi River could have been res­cued if divers had been called 
The White House Inn 

ROCK & ROLL WITH THE BEST BANDS IN THE MIDWEST NITELY (Except Tues) THIS WEEK: STAR TROOPER 
The White House Inn 683-9842 2839 No. 51th St. Niles 
Take U.S. 31 to Niles_, Nort~ 011_~1, 3 miles: 
who resigned following his recent appointment as a special assistant to Notre Dame's president. Father Theodore M. Hcsburgh. C.S.C.. to coordinate campus programs in the service of the Church and to represent the University in rela­tionships with outside religious organizations. 
Requt;sts for additional informa­tion and applications should be directed to the Catholic Committee on Urban Ministrv. Univcrsitv of Notre Dame. Notre Dame. Ind-iana 46556. 
vivcd. 
Hurt told a Coast Guard board of inquiry that he was not Sl)mmoncd to the scene for at least two hours after the pre-dawn accident. 
He said some of the victims might have survived for some time by breathing air trapped inside the sunken ferrv -but not for two 
hours. ­Diving operatiom have been suspended. but small boats wait downstream from the crash site to recover any bodies that might float to the river's surface. 
by Chris Smith Asst. Managing Editor 

A steady stream of students, 
facultv and staff to Stepan Center 
yesterday led to what health officials 
termed a very effective immuni­zation program. 
According to Pat Paszkiet, di­rector of nurses for the St. Joseph County Health Department, "Be­tween 4500 and 5000 were vacci­nated. which is a good turn-out. We feel that 50 percent is good. and I think we reached that." 
"We got a very positive re­sponse." said Immunization Rep­resentative Loren Eck. "We felt that students would be turned off because this is a federal program; but they weren't at all hesitant." he added. 
I 
Eck explained that the usual hypodermic syringes were not used for this immunization program. "The vaccine is administered with a jet injector gun·. Pressure from a piston forces a fine stream of vaccine into the tissue." 
Overall reaction to the vaccin­ation was favorable. Most found the jet gun faster and less painful than the syringe and needle. 
Mike Karels, a junior, -com­mented. "It felt like a needle. only faster." Fr. Matt Miceli said. "It didn't even hurt." A senior. Sharon Carr. confirmed that there was little discomfort. 1 She was impressed that the whole proce­dure was quick. 
Bro. Edward Luther, a Red Cross volunteer and resident of Moreau Seminary, was on hand to admini­ster first. aid in case it was needed. ''About five students fainted.·· he said. " but after maybe IS minutes ·each case recovered.'' Bro. Luther cited apprehension as the probable cause of these cases. 
Perhaps the only mix-up of the program was confusion about how late health officials would be at Stepan Center. Joel Burian, stu­dent liason for the -health depart­ment apologized for the mistake. Burian recommends that anvonc still wishing to be vaccin'ated should go to one of the future sites at which the health officials will appear. 
RohPrt:~ Hoffman. Health Edu­cator for the St. Joseph County Health Department. outlined fu­ture places where local healtr officials will administer the flu vacci~oe. On Nov. 8. officials will be at the Town and Countrv Mini-Mall from II a.m. until 3 p.m. and Nov. 
10. thev will be at St. Man·'s. The vaccine will be given Nov. -IS a•. the tOO-Center in Mishawaka. II a.m. until3 p.m. The program at IUSB will run from Nov. II through Nm. 
17. 8 a,m. until 3 p.m. 
Pat Paszkiet focused on the plan~ to give immuni1.ations at Saint Marv's. "We will he at th•· Clubhouse on Nov. 10." she said. "but onlv for a half da\·. The time is not definite vet. but we will notifv The Obse~,-er... She urged that all Notre Dame and St. Man·, facultv. staff and ~tudcnl'>. a'> well as their familic., he vaccinated. 
Joel Burian warned that health department ofticials '>ll'>pect per sons under age 25 may need a11 additional vaccination or a hoo,tn to insure full protection from the flu. If this is found to be the ca~c. the public will be nntilicd through the news media 

Ford proposes plutonium controls 
WASHINGTON (AP) -President Ford proposed yesterday a new policy against the spread of nuclear weapons. turning sharply away from plutonium as a future atomic fuel for the world's power plants. 
The policy. announced by Ford in Cincinnati. Ohio during a campaign stop there. and explained by ad­ministration officials in Washing­ton. is similar in many respects to proposals made a month ago by Democratic presidential candidate .Jimmy Carter. 
Ford said the world must contin­ue to develop nuclear energy production using uranium as the fuel. But this process creates another dement, plutonium, which i~ a serious health hazard in itself and far easier to convert into nuclear weapons. 
"I have concluded," Ford 'tatcd, "that the reprocessing and recvcling of plutonium from spent uranium fuel should not proceed unlco.,s there is sound reason to c·onclude that the world community can effectively overcome the assoc­Iated risk of nuclear weapon prolif­eration." 
Ford said "the United States 'hould no longer regard reprocess­ing of used nuclear fuel to produce plutonium as a necessary and inevitable step." 
The new policy sends the Energy Research and Development Admin­istration -ERDA -back to the drawing board for a new look at its earlier proposal of government support for plutonium reprocessing plant, partially completed by pri­vate industry near Barnwell, N.C., Robert Fri, deputy administrator of ERDA. told reporters here. 
Ford ordered ERDA to "eval­uate" once mo're the idea of commercial plutonium recovery and to look into ways of recycling spent nuclear fuel into new fuel elements without separating out the plutonium that is so hazardous as bomb material. 
Ford's proposals included U.S. and international sanctions against the misuse of peaceful nuclear aid to develop nuclear weapons. and a series of efforts to gain internation­al cooperation in restraining the spread of plutonium production and reprocessing facilities to nations that do not already have them. 
Charles Robinson. deputy secre­tary of state, told the briefing that the United States has been in consultation with other nations active as suppliers of nuclear materials and equipment. includ­ing the Soviet Union, with encour­aging results. 
Robinson indicated that such 
talks also have included India and 
China, which are not yet major 
nuclear suppliers to other nations 
but which have already developed 
nuclear weapons of their own. 

Ford said the "supplier" nations should provide nuclear fuel serv­ices for other nations using atomic power, but should not provide the fuel-processing technology and equipment itself. so the user-nations would not be tempted to develop capabilities that could be 
co~~~~t~~:;o;:~:pons production. -A three-year moratorium on sales and transfers of plutonium
reprocessing and uranium enrich­ment technology from present supplier-nations to others. 
-Offering assurance of nuclear 
fuel supply to customer nations willing-to comply with safeguards against nuclear weapons prolifera­tion. 
-An effort to renegotiate existing 
U.S. agreements for nuclear aid to foreign countries, to tighten up anti-weapons safeguards, and a new emphasis on adherence to the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty or other international safeguards as a condition of new U.S. nuclear cooperation. 
-Deferral of commercial pluton­ium reprocessing in the United States. at least until it can be 





Erlichman requests prison ! 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Prefer­ring not to wait for S11preme Court review of his convictions. John D. Ehrlichman asked yesterday· to be sent to prison to serve his Water­gate sentences. Two federal judges agreed and ordered him to report to a federal work camp in Arizona by Nov. I. 
When he begins serving his minimum 30 months. Ehrlichman will become the first of the three men closest to Richard M. Nixon ­and the highest ranking member of the Nixon administration to date ­to be imprisoned. 
His lawyers could not be reached to determine whether Ehrlichman will now drop his intended appeals to the Supreme Court. 
Ehrlichman. Nixon's domestic counselor and his No. 2 aide. was convicted and sentenced in both the White House "plumbers" case and in the Watergate cover-up. His appeal to the U.S. Court of Appeals was rejected in each case. 
At his sentencing in the cover-up case. along with former Atty. Gen. .John N. Mitchell and former White House chief of staff H.R. Halde­
man, Ehrlichman expressed con­
trition. 

"It is clear to me from the jury verdicts ... that my public life was perceived in such a way that my peers tind me unworthy of their trust and belief," he said. "I have been found to be a perjurer, and no reversal on appeal alone can ex­pupge the stigma of these ver­dicts." 
As the boss of the "White House Plumbers." Ehrlichman was sen­tenced to 20 months to 5 vears for violating the civil rights of a Beverly Hills psychiatrist. The jury found that White House agents, under Ehrlichman's direction. broke into the Beverly Hills, Calif.. oftice of Dr. Lewis J. Fielding to rifle the files of a patient. Pentagon Papers figure Daniel Ellsberg. 
Then, he was convicted of ob­structing justice, conspiring to obstruct justice and multiple counts of lying under oath in the Water­gate cover-up. His sentence in that case was 30 months to 8 years. 
U.S. District Judge John J . Sirica. who presided over the cover-up trial. made the Watergate 
•
and plumbers case sentences con-+ 
current. meaning that Ehrlichman: 
will be eligible for parole after + serving 2 and a half years. + A provision in the law, however, + allows Sirica to reduce a sentence + within four months after Ehrlich-+ man goes to prison. Sirica has done + that on previous occasions, reduc-•• ing to time served the sentences of+ such prominent Watergate figures+ 
as James W. McCord Jr.. John W. + Dean, and Jeb Stuart Magruder. : A similar reduction in sentence was ordered for Charles W. Colson + 
by U.S. District Judge Gerhard A+
Gesell. who presided over the + plumbers trial. 
t 
Sirica and Gesell jointly issued 
Thursday's order, saying Ehrlich-+ man's lawyer told them that he+ "now wishes voluntarily to sur-i
render his personal bond and to begin service of the concurrent sentences.'' The former White House aide could not be reached for comment t 
in Santa Fe, N.M., where he has been li~ing sine~ his ~onviction. An+ 
answenng service said he was out 
proven that security and waste disposal problems can be safely solved. 
-A pledge to cut off U.S. nuclear cooperation from any nation violat­ing anti-weapons safeguards and to seek international sanctions against such violators. 
Carter has recommended that the United States refuse to sell nuclear reactors to nations which do not submit to "international safe11uards." He has recom-
Many ID pictures fail, students awal·t.·ng arr.·val 
by Kate Flynn Staff Reporter 

Approximately 1000 students will have to wait again for ID's due to a New York company's process­ing error which caused new cards to arrive without pictures. Com­plete !D's should arrive within two weeks of final photographing at Notre Dame if there is no delay in chemical processing or air freight service, according to Assistant Registrar Dave Kil. . 
Kil and Registrar Richard Sulli­van stressed ND is not paying for production errors an.d emphatically requested faulty ID s be corrected mended also that all nations submit to a voluntary moratorium on purchasing reprocessing technol­ogy. · 
In answer to a question, James Cannon, head of Ford's Domestic Council, said the timing of the announcement. only five days before the presidential election, was coincidental and followed a schedule of necessary steps which had nothing to do with the election campaign. 

..................................
~ 

• 
free of charge. 
Sullivan, who negotiated with the company for this year's con­tract, will continu·e to usc its services next year despite present production difficulties. He claimed lamination and photographing problems arose this year only because this is NO's first dealing with the company. With identifi­cation and improvement of the 
problems, next year's production should occur with no difficulty. he said. 
Sullivan explained that the com­pany was chosen because their !D's allow for extensive security use. He said they may be used in a detex capacity in the future. 

oftown. ..•••••••••••••••••••••++•+++•++••• 
•

$ 5 i
•
+ 

THAT'S WHAT YOUR I.D· CARD : 
+ IS WORTH W +
HEN YOU PURCHASE +A + N $18.95 METAL OR FIBERGLASS + + 
RACKETBALL RACKET AT : THE SPORT SCENE + + 
+ YOU PA O + 
. Y NL Y $13.95 PLUS TAX + ONLY 1Q WAL'KING MINUTES + +
+ EAST OF THE A.C.C. : + THE SROR SeEN .+ +
T 
+ + 
+ 

I : E + 
~ ' INC. + 2314 SOUTH BEND AVENUE SOUTH BEND, INDIANA 4bb35 •272 9171 : + 
• + 

TAKE THE MYSTERY OUT-OF SPEAKERS COME TO THE Audio Specialists 





LOUDSPEAKER SEMINAR 
WITH I.M. FRIED, SPEAKER DESIGNER 12-8 TODAY AT 
AUDIO SPECIALISTS 415 N. Michigan 

----~ ------------------~-~--~~ 

With a merry, "Hi, hun," another smiling face joins the Huddle staff. (Photo by Debbie Krilich.) 
Photo finish seen for California votes 
LOS ANGELES (AP) -Jimmy Carter's comfortable lead in Cali-· fornia over President Ford has melted to nothing. but Democratic leaders say "it's all coming to­gether" now in the Carter cam­paign. 
Ford. despite spectacular gains in voter preference polls, still has the registration figures stacked heavily against him in California whose 45 electoral votes give it the biggest clout of any state. 
The President was one percent­age point ahead of Carter in the latest California Poll. after trailing by 20 points two months ago. 
But in the same period, a registration drive has signed up three new Democrats for every new Republican. Democrats now out­number Republicans by about 2.1 million. around 58 percent to 36 percent. 
Leaders of both parties say the race for California's 45 electors may be decided bv·the size of the voter turnout and· the impact of a state ballot proposition pushed by farm labor leader Cesar Chavez. 
Ford said before his final swing through California last week that the state is on his must-win list. 
"There are a number of other combinations. but California has 45 electoral votes. That means Cali­fornia is the real key state in any realistic combination, .. Ford told newspaper editors. 
Carter underscored the emphasis he puts on California with plans to spend the final day of h:-two-year­long campaign for pre~rdent at get-out-the vote rallies in three California cities. 
"It can go either way now. and it's going to be voter turnout that decides it," said Republican state vice 
chairman Mike Montgomery. 
Earn TOP DOLLAR 
while wearing the 

latest in Rock Groups, 
Cars, Motorcycles, 
X -rated, etc. in 
TEE SHIRTS. 
Write for Complete 
Details to: 

"It will be close, with the r.emaining variable being the turn­out. .. said Grav Davis. chief advis­er to Democratic Gov. Edmund G. Brown Jr. "It's coming together. Yes. We will win ... 
. The first loyaltv of manv cam­paign volunteers· is still ·to the favorite sons who swept the Cali­fornia primary -former Gov. Ronald Reagan on the Republican side and Brown in the Democratic ranks. 
But Reagan's grass-roots organi­zation has provided manpower for Ford. And !oval followers of Chavet. who i~ closely tied to Brown. led a recent Democratic registration drive, signing up about 325,000 new voters since August. 
Reagan and Brown have kept a certain distance from Ford and Carter. But both have campaigned actively. 
Cycle Club meets again in Rathskeller 
The second monthly meeting of 
the newly formed Cycle Touring 
Club will take place this Monday 
Nov. 1, at 7:30 in the Rathskeller. 
The main event of the meeting will be short presentation on "Your Bike and You by Mark Herberlein. Topics to be discussed include buying and adjusting a bicycle to yourself and various conditioning exercises to help with cyling. 
The meeting will conclude with discussions on future bicycle trips, winter ideas for club activities, and the possibility of including cross-· country skiing as a winge club activitiy. 
Rip Off the I



----------------, 
VILLAGE INN 
I 
I

With A 
"Where Pmo •s A/ways in Good To1te.1" 

I "CRAZY COUPON C_APER':__ I 
We will accept any type of coupon you canJ find and give you $1.00 offon any I
I 

14" or 16" Thin Crust Pizza or any I
I 

12'; Deep Pan Pizza I
I 

I OFFER GOOD AT BOTH I I VIllAGE INN'S I 
I 

FROM NOVl to NOV 13 
I 

1401 N. Hickory (across from Town and Country) 1 31 North at Darden Rd. 
-I 

'O~en 1_1 am to 12 am . . limit 1 er customer . 

~~~.i.l.WD ra•••:•-~---~ 
-~--~-~---------------------~~----~---------..... 
Friday, October 29, 1976 the observer 
5 


Rhodesians hold meeting 
GENEVA Switzerland (AP) ­The black-white conference on the future of Rhodesia opened here yesterday in an atmosphere of deep pessimism. 
The formal opening session of the talks, bringing together Prime Minister Ian Smith and four black nationalist leaders. lasted only about 25 minutes. The next session was set for Saturday morning. when chief delegates will make opening statements. 
In a short welcoming address. British chairman lvor Richard said all five Rhodesian delegations had come to Geneva accepting the principle that black majority rule would be achieved within two vears. 
0 

The tirst meeting was delayed for several hours by black protests against Britain's handling of the conference -arrangements. 
Richard told newsmen before­hand the major problem was the "enormous depth of suspicion be­tween the two sides. One sees it, one can almost feel it in the air around this building and this town." 
Aim of the conference is to arrange peaceful tran~ition to black rule in the breakaway British colonv in southern Africa where black~ outnumber the ruling whites by0 6.4 million to 278.000. 
Two of the blal·k leaders delayed the formal start of the meeting in the PalaL'e of Nations with a demand that Richard, British ambassador to the United Nations, be given the status of a cabinet minister-
Black African sources said
was granted after Richard con­sulted with authorities in London ­
Now appearring 
Broadway performer Jerry Jar­rett will appear in Festival '77 Oct. 30 at 7:30p.m. at the CiviL' Auditorium. As the popu dairyman in "Fiddler on the Roof" Jarrett portrays Tevye and forms popular melodies from musical. 
The evening following Mr. J rett's performance, Festival '7 presents the Chinese Acrobats Taiwan on Monday, Nov. I at 7: 
p.m. 'On a retur~ tour of N 
America  after  last  year's  
acclaimed  performance.  the  
pany will  present  a  versatile  di  
play  of  acrobatics,  juggling  an  
kung fu.  

Tickets are available now at Robertson's, the Niles Daily Star, the Morris Civic box office and the Centurv Center office at 306 S. Notre Dame Ave. For more infor­mation on upcoming events or tickets. call the Century Center office at 284-9711. Discount rates are available to groups and stu­dents and senior citizens are eligio ble for a 50 percent discount rate on tickets left on the evening of the performa~ce, one-half hour before the curtam. 
bnt a second black demand was refused. 
The second demand was Smith's team be seated alongside the British delegation in order to underline w.hat the blacks regard as "British-Rhodesian political co­operation.·· 
The two last-minute demands were raised bv Joshua Nkomo and Robert Mugabe. who head the Rhodesian "Patriotic Front." 
A third bbck delegate arranged a symbolic demonstration against the Smith regime inside the confer­ence chamber. 
Bishop· Abel Muzorewa, a spokesman said. prepared two placards bearing names of close 

MAKE YOUR PLACE THE ROI\.A 219 Riverbend Plaza ltalamerican Food -liquor ENJOY THE 'NON PLUS ULTRA 'PIZZA CALL 234 -3258 FOR FREE DELIVERY 
Special Holy Day Mass 


ALL SAINT~ LITURGY 5:00pm 

Monday, November 1st Sacred Heart Church 

Celebrant : Rev. Michael Glockner, C.S.C. 
There will also be an All Saints Mass in Sacred Heart church at 11 :30 a.m. on Monday. Check hall bulletin boards for times of Mass in dorms. 
Write for free information-without obligation. Glenmary Missioners, Room S-22 Box 46404, Cincinnati, OH 45246 
Name ______ _____ Age ___ 
Address ___ City ____ 
-------------o---­
colleagues he charges have been jailed b~· Rhodesian security police. Muzorewa placed the placard~. with the name~ of Edson '\ithole and Enos Nkala. on empt~· chairs beside him. the spokesman said. 
At the scheduled midmorning starting rime. rwnL' of the four black dclcgatL·~ had appcarl'd. Smith was there but he 'O(l!l returned to his hotel. tl'lling re­porters. "The beggar~ the blarb have appealed against thL· light and so I am going bad to ha\ L' a L'UP of 
tea... To "appeal again~t the light" j, a crickcting term u-.ed whl'n pia\ can become too dangerou-. hccau-.L· of poor light. 
_____j 

~r---~:---t-h_e_o_b_s_e_r_v_e_r______F_ri_d_Q-.-~-o-b_e_r-~-.-1-9-n~-----~----------­
Cyanamid's Affleck views trade 
by Ginger McGowan Staff Reporter 
The multi-national corporation has become "an instrument for international stability and coopera­tion·' by investments at home and abroad, Dr. James Affleck, presi­dent and chairman of the board of American Cyanamid Company, de­clared yesterday. 
Speaking before ·an audience of approximately 200 faculty and stu­dents in the Hayes-Healy auditor­ium. Affleck commented on the role of the multinational corpora­tion in his address, entitled "View from the Bull's Eye: The Multi­national corporation in the Mid­Seventies." 

According to Affleck, multi­national corporations stimulate the world economy by capital invest­ment, expansion of employment, and the dispersal of technology. He stressed that ''we do this best when we do it apolitically." 
First, Affleck pointed out that 
U.S. multinational corporations directly invested $34.2 billion in developing countries at the close of 1975. American Cyanamid is a New Jersy based firm with 40 principal subsidiaries overseas. 
·'This is one feature of the American economy that tangibly demonstrates how U.S. multi­national companies 'help to pro­mote the general welfare'.'· he asserted. 
Secondly, employment of "mil­lions of men and women in the Americas, Europe, Africa and Asia" is created world-wide by the establishment of subsidiaries which employ local personnel, Affleck explained. ­
He noted that in Cyanamid's Brazilian subsidiaries, "all but a handful" of the managers, super­visors. scientists and technicians are Brazilians. Affleck characteriz­ed such local employees as being the leading edge of economic and social development. 
American multinational corpora­tions operate under governments ranging from military regimes and 

Carter supported in home state, 'Deep South' supports him, too 
ATLANTA (AP)-Jimmy Carter '>l'L'Ili" certain to pull his home state b,tck into the Democratic presiden­tial column for the first time in 12 \Tar-.. but not with the landslide he huilt to win the Georgia Democratic primar~· seven months ago. 
"I don't think there is any question that Gov. Carter will carry hi-, home state in the November general election." says Gov. George Busbee. who succeeded Carter two years ago as Georgia's chief executive. 
"However. I do not believe he will carry the state as handily as he did in the May 4 primary. nie polls show that President Ford is making inroads in the South and it would be foolhardv for Gov. Carter to take the South ·for granted," Busbe~ added. 
Carter collected 84 percent of the 
480.000 Democratic votes cast in the state's first presidential pri­marv in modern times. 
That was last May. A regional poll released during October said Carter's popularity in the Deep South took a I 0-point dive during September -a month which included the famous PlaJboy inter­view and the first presidential debate. but not the second or third debates. 
And, in the meantime. Georgia Republicans have reunited behind Ford after casting nearly 70 percent of their primary votes for former California Gov. Ronald Reagan. 
The state has not backed a Democratic presidential candidate since John F. Kenned~· in 1960. In 1964. Barrv Goldwater carried the state; in 1968, George C. Wallace; in 1972. Richard M. Nixon. 
Yet it is a state of deep Democratic traditions reaching back to the aftermath of Recon­struction. Every major state official and most local officials are Demo­crats. 
The poll conducted by Darden Research Corp. among 600 voters in the South showed that Carter's lead over Ford dropped from 21.7 

percent in September to II percent Georgia voters in 54 cities last in October. with Ford making gains weekend after the third presiden­among Democrats and independe tial debate showed Carter favored nts. Darden showed Carter with a by 59.8 percent; Ford by 30.4 49.5-38.5 over Ford in October percent; other candidates, 0.8 per­compared to a 53.5-31.8 lead in cent. and 9 percent undecided. September. Darden said that poll has an 
"In the Deep South, Carter is error factor of 4.4 percent either still comfortabl~ ahead,·· Darden way. said, "but Ford is rapidly gaining At Ford headquarters in on him." Georgia. Sam Tate, who ran 
That poll. he said, has an error Reagan's campaign in the state. is factor of about 4 percent e1thcr now the cochairman of the Ford way. campaign. "I think the vote is 
Both Darden and Charles going to be a lot closer than I Graves. the executive director of thought a munth ago. We don't the Democratic party in Georgia. have polls prcnse enough to tell us remarked that the poll was taken the standing right now, but Ford before the second debate. will take a number of counties in 
A Darden poll among 500 Georgia.·· 
U.S. sells computers as gesture of support 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The Ford Informed sources said Secretary 
administration has approved the of State Henry A. Kissinge'r 
sale of two advanced computers to pressed for the approval over the 
China as a gesture of support for initial reservations of the Pentagon 
the new Peking regime, govern­and some intelligence elements 
ment officials said yesterday. and ultimately prevailed. 
The sale, by a French subsidiary 

The first of the two computer of Control Data Corp .. still requires 
systems will be used by the clearance from Cocom, a grouping 
Chinese for oil exploration. The of the NATO allies and Japan that 
other. to be delivered later, prob­passes on business deals with 
ably will be used to help, detect Communist countries involving 
earthquakes. sensitive equipment. 
Wreckage located but no trace found of losr crew 
WOODS HOLE. Mass. (APJ -the outer arm of Cape Cod. Divers located the wreckage of the The Coast Guard planned to try tishing boat Patricia Marie on to haul the sunken vessel into Thursday. but found no trace of six shallower waters Friday. 
communist dictatorships to democ­racies, acknowledged Affleck. "This requires a multinational to comply with the national regula­tions of each country in which it opcntes,'' Affleck stated. 
Third, developing countries ben­efit from the technology that multi­nationals introduce, Affleck main­tained. Among the products Cyanamid's Brazilian subsidiary distributes are antibiotics, veteri­nary drugs protecting livestock and a protein supplement to assist the national government in improving the diets of children through a special school lunch program.. Ac­cording to Affleck, introduction of these pharmaceuticals into the market has promoted the general 
Affleck sees international trade as a universal link for understand­ing and agreement. "International trade often transcends political, religious and other differences, and is a positive basis for international relations," he stated. 
The board chairman considers the multinational corporation as a promoter of the American ideal. "We have taken the best qualities of our society ... and packaged and trnsplanted them elsewhere," he said. 
Affleck fielded questions from 
'Anastasia' 
denounces book 

CHARLOTTESVILLE, Va. (AP)­For 56 years. Mrs. John E. Manahan has said she is Anatasia. grand duchess of Russia. A new book contains arguments that could help her claim, but she's having none of it. 
"No, no, I don't like it. It's a put-together mess." the 76-year­old woman said about the book by two British journalists. 
One complaint against "The File on the Tsar" by Anthony Summers and Tom Mangold involves a photograph which she finds unflat­tering. 
Other complaints involve the authors' case. She says all mem­bers of the royal family -not just the women -survived an effort to kill them in 1918. She has not said how. 

The popular theory about the royal family's fate says all were slain in Ekaterinberg July 16, 1918. But the two journalists say they have new evidence that only the czar and perhaps his son died then. 
They  say  the  czarina  and  four  
daughters  survived  at  least  six  
months.  

the audience following his address 
and also at a press conference 
preceding his speech. 
He reaffirmed the apolitical 
stance of multinationals even in 
countries such as South Africa, 
although he revealed that they are 
under pressure from certain groups 
to remove their business from that 
nao.ion. 
Asked if he thought retaining 
subsidiaries in South Africa gave 
some kind of support, Affleck 
responded that it does, but the 
corporation did not have a duty to 
change the situation. 
Affleck also indicated that he 
views the multinational corporation 
as being overregulated by the 
government. 
"Business should be regulated 
so they don't do things that are 
patently against the public trust," 
he said, adding. "J;leyond that, the 
less regulation you apply, the 
better the result you'll get." 
Affleck noted that he has spear­
headed a new educational progran; 
to familiarize elementary and sec­
ondary school children to the free 
enterprise system with the cooper­
ation of I 00 companies. 
Dr. Affleck was sponsored by tht: 
Executive Lecture Series Comm\t­
tee and introduced by chairwoman 
Janet Kazmierski. 
~----~F~A~S~T~----1 
TYPEWRITER REPAIR 
E:J:I:fll·l 
2915 Mishawa~ ~~:­

PaaliiiiZi
•
RESTAURANT 41 0 fl Hill Street. 
South Bend-233-2267 
ALL NEW 
Leu thaa 2 Minutes fro• I.D. 01 I. Hll SL 
Delicious Italian 'Pood Elegant Atmosphere Cocktail Lounge
•
Open 4 p.m. lon. thra Sat. 
,_ ll..u:-S. &,.,... ...... 

Provincetown crewmen mtsstng 
since the vessel sank Sunday night, 
Cultural Arts Commission presents
the Coast Guard said. Divers from the National Marine 
The National Theatre Company production of
Fisheries Service searched the craft after it was found resting upright in JJO feet of wafer. three miles off 
CHARLIE &CO. 

-a new musical based upon the life and times of Charles Chaplin 

Opening soon, is now accepting applications 
from neat, well-groomed individuals. Positions available: hosts. hostesses, waitresses, wait­ers, bartenders, service assistants, cooks and 
Monday, November 1 8pm Olaughlin Auditorium 
dishwashers. 

52554 US 31 North 
$3 general admission $2 students 277-3766 
Tickets available at SU ticket office or at the door.
Equal OpPc>rturiity Employe; 
Friday, October 29, 197fi the observer 
7

Of illegal contributions 
Park is central figure in Justice Dept. probe 
WASHINGTON [API -Korean actions before inspectors read them 
significance o"f Park's list. particu­"And none of us can recall any kind admitted Mondav his wife accepted businessman Tongsun Park boas­said Donavan Working. former 
larly whether it meant Park had of contribution or gift of any kind a gift of $10.000 ·from Park in IQ7Jted in December 1973 he gave U.S. Customs district director for 
made any payments to the officials. from Park or anvbodv connected in after Edwards. then a congress­thousands of dolllars in campaign Anchorage. 
lnvestioators must still check out anY fashion with hin~." man. turned down Park's offer of a contributions to many prominent Later. a phone call to customs the list's meaning. the source said. The aide said Goldwater is a contribution to Edwards' guber­
American politicians including 
officials in Washington determined member of the posh Georgetown natorial campaign.
Most of the names on the list

$500,000 to then President Richard 
the papers could not be confis­Club. a private club here owned by The Korean government ha~
have not be.en made public.
M. Nixon. a customs official said 
cated, Working said. Park, but does not have ties with denied Pard was aL·ting on it~
Working said in addition to Nixon,
yesterday. 
Park himself. behalf.
Park then bragged the two-and he recalled that the names of Sens.
Park. a rice broker who is the key 

Park. who also owns an export-Before JQ74. it wa~ not illegal for figure in a Justice Department three-digit figures beside each Barrv Goldwater, R-Ariz., and import business here. is out of the foreigner~ to make contribution' to name stood for ·'thousands of Hubert H. Humphrey. D-Minn .. 
investigation of influence-peddling 
countrv. but his lawyers have said American political campaign,. Hutdollars" in contributions, which were on the list, along with thenin Congress by Korean agents. was he has· denied allegations he made it would be illegal for Park to
Rep. Richard T. Hanna, D-Calif.
carryinga list with U.S. politicians' had "Something to do with assis­illegal cash payments to any undertake anv lobhving activity in names and figures he said repre­tance from these officials with A spokesman for Humphrey said congressmen. Congress on behalf of the Korean sented campaing contributions some sort of a rice program that he yesterday. "There were no contri­Park reportedly has told federal government without registeringwhen he was searched by customs was involved in," according to butions to the senator from Park, investigators about contributions with the Justice Department under agents in Anchorage. Alaska. on Working, now district customs and he had no connection with Park he made to several congressmen. the Foreign Agcnh Regi~trationDec. 8. 1973. director in Laredo, Texas. or the Korean lobby." 
including former Reps. Cornelius Act. Park made frantic efforts to A government source said yes­
An aide to Goldwater said the Gallager of New Jersey and Hanna Park wa., ~earched bv l"U'tom-. 
recover or tear up the list and other terday Justice Department investi­senator had thoroughly checked his of California. Rep. John Brademas, agents in AnL·horage beQu~e the~· papers dealing with rice trans-gators have not determined the 
financi1l records back to 1964, D-lnd .. has acknowledged receiv-suspected he wa~ bringing an ing campaign contributions totaling expensive camera into the Unitl·d $4,650 from Park in 1972 and 1974. States as an undeclared gift. 
Louisiana Gov. Edwin Edwards Working recalled yesterdav.
Eskimos stranded by weather ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 
: -'fiMM PARTY STORE : 
SPENCE BAY, Canada (AP) -snowmobiles were being used in temperatures just at freezing. 
:oPEN: MON-SAT 9 am-11 pn1:
High winds and blowing snow have the rescue attempt because aircraft "We were hunting for all the delaved snowmobile-borne res­would break through the ice where meat we'd need for the winter," he •
: SUNDAY 12 noon -11 pm
cuers trying to reach 12 members the boat is stranded. If the ice had said. adding the group bagged 30 • of an Eskimo hunting party strand­reached midwinter thickness. air­caribou, several seals and a polar 
: COLD BEER, PACKAGE UQUOR,:
ed in the arctic off Canada's barren craft could land easily. he said. bear. north coast. officials said yester­The Eskimos were reported in But encroaching ice tore holes in dav. good condition. with a campsite their boat, he said. and arctic winds : WINE, GOURMET FOODS : 
Four snowmobiles dragging and fire alongside their icebound blew them off course. Thev were 
: 3114 S. 11 ST. NILES, MICHIGAN: 
sleighs full of supplies left the boat. declared missing on Oct. 2o but Northwest Territories outpost of David Nakahook, 19, one of those bad weather presented a thorough : 1 BLOCK NO OF IND.-MICH. STATE LINE ON U.S. 31: Gjoa Haven Wednesday on the who hiked out for help. said the search. There are about six hours 
I 00-mile mission to reach the hunting party left Gjoa Haven on of peak visibility in the area each ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 
caribou hunting Eskimos. Sept. 18 in mild fall weather -day at this time of year. 
The hunting party's 40-foot boat, battered and wedged between icc floes, is stuck on an island in Queen 
Ford-Carter confrontations 
Maud Gulf. The gulf is above the 
Arctic Circle. more than 1.200 
miles due north of Winnipeg. 
spur more local debates 
Manitoba. Three members of the group by The Associated Press The format of the debates hasremaining at the boat are women 
varied from state to state. Candi­and eight are children, two of them dates in Wyoming. Washington,less than two years old. Milk, tea, The Ford-Carter campaign de­North Carolina, New Hampshire,sugar and flour were dropped by bates have prompted an increased Florida. Delaware and Connecticutairplane late Tuesday after the number of similar confrontations at met in confrontations generallygroup was located. 
the local level this year. with paralleling the Ford-Carter ses­The rescue party first had to gubernatorial and congressional sions. with questions from a paneldrive 65 miles to a Distant Early candidates squaring off for fre­of reporters and a chance for eachWarning (DEW) line radar statio~ quent broadcast sessions. candidate to reply to his opponent'sat Gladman Point. reached by three 
Officials in a few states report
members of the hunting party 
debates are a traditional part of
Tuesday after a two-day hike for 
political campaigns. But an Assoc­
help. 
iated Press spot check shows there
The Royal Canadian Mounted 

was an upsurge of interest this year 
Police (RCMP) post here reported 
because of the first presidential
poor radio communications late debate<> in 16 years.
Wednesday because of high winds 
The local debates -some carried
and storm conditions. The rescue 
live and others relayed by delayed
mission is being coordinated by the 
telecast pro111pted fewer polls and
RCMP here. 
analyses than the presidential
Horace Callicutt, manager at the 

ones. ·there was no measure of
DEW line station, said the weather 
their impact available, although in
probably had stalled the rescue 
a few cases television officials said
party, forcing it to make camp and view reaction was minimal.
wait out the storm. 
Stan Cramer, public affairs
The RCMP said winds gusting to 

director of KCMO-TV in Kansas
35 miles an hour and temperatures 
City, said "The real factor in the
below zero had reduced visibility to 
increased number of debates is the
low levels. 
willingness of the candidates to
"It's the kind of situation in 

debate this year. That is where the
which we want to get them out in road block is usually thrown."
the next couple of days.'' an RCMP 
At the same time. Cramer said,
spokesman said. 
viewers seem apathetic. "My feel­
The rescue party was expected to 

ing is that they don't really care,"
stop at Gladman Point and pick up 
he said. "I think the people are still
the three members of the E~kimo 
making their choices on nonissues.
party. who could guide the rescuers 
I don't think the public under­
the remaining 40 miles to the 
stands the real issues in mapy of
isolated hunters. 
the races."
The RCMP spokesman said the 
Czech airliner hijacked 

MUNICH, West Germany [AP] -A young man hijack~d a Czecho­slovak airliner on a domestic flight Thursday evening, forced it to Munich, then surrendered to police as soon as the plane landed, airport officials reported.· 
The hijacker was identified as Rudolf Becvar, 26, of Czecho­
slo;~!iaSoviet-made this friday ana every
Ilyushin t8 

carried lOS passengers and six 
fn•day 5•.15 mass & 
crew members. It was on a scheduled flight from Prague to SU er Bratislava, in southeastern Czecho-~t::-oo;:::::--;:::-'~c-""""'"7"'7''7"'-7~==:~~~'""':-"'C""~r:J'"::::r:::7::;::;::::;ilt~ 
slovakia, and further east to ·..Cll4..:::.......:~..::::a,.::::..;;:::::::::::::;.~L..t::...Ldilil:lllo~~~~~:::.....::;..:;.-"'-"~~~~-Poprad. 
~~~ <lnlontal 'ancakt -oust 
Featuring a complete menu. Breakfast, Lunch & Dinner Your Host Bob Edwards N.D. '5,0 
E NEVER COMPROMISE WITH QUALITY I 

U.S. 31 (Dixieway North in Roseland ) Across from Holiday lnr,) 

fiNE blUEGRASS Music 
THE MO~GAN BJtOS. 
. , , · '· •: ·" '. clEAN G£NE'S RityM & bl~s ExpRESS SUO piTcltu. ,. ,.. 
IF YOU WERE SWEPT AWAY BY HER SEVEN BEAUTIES 
NOW YOU'll BE TAlKING ABOUT ... 
~ 
Starring Nrno Manfredi and Lucrana Palu.zz•· D"ected by L•na WertfTlu rer 
111111118lll1~~· 1 0AilY AT 7:00-9:00 P.M. (INC. SAT.SUN.) 
FRIDAY (PGJ 
AN EXPLOSIVE C»4EMA 
COMING FRI. NOV . .S WOODY ALLEN AS 
II I.H E. F.RQNT"' I ­

~~--~~~~~~.-~~~~~...-~~~--~~~~ 
_;._____ __ l 

*The Observer 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's 
The Observer 1~ publ1~hed by students of the University of Notn· Dc~nH· .1nd St Mary·~ College It does not necessarily rl'llt·< t tht• pol1cit·~ of e1thPr mstltution The news is reported .~~ d< cur.JtPiy dnd J~ obwctivPiy as possible Editonals 
• n·prP~t·nt tlw op1n1on of a maJority of the Editorial Board ( ·oll!IJH'nt<~rlt'~. op1n1on~ .1nd lettPrs are the v1ews of their .Jut lwr~ Column ~pc1c P " J_vailabiP to .all members of the < <>lllllllllllt\ . .1nd IPttPr~ an· t>ncouraged to promote the free t·\pr•·~~l<lll ol v.1ry1ng op1111on~ on campu~ 
Ilu~11w~~ M.JndgPr l om I ronuak /\cht·rt1~1ng Mc~n.Jger Mikt> Millt'r . l'hoto I d1tor 1ony C:hifari I'roduc t1on M,magPr Mc1rtha L. I annmg 
Box Q, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 Phones: (219) 283-8661 [ND] (219) 284-5365 [SMC] 
EDITORIAL BOARD 

Thomas O'Neil  Editor-in-Chief  
Dan Sanche?  Managing Editor  
Chm Smith  Asst. Managing Ed  
Gregg Bangs  Executive Editor  
Val Zurbli~  Executive Editor  
Pat Hanifin  Editorial Editor  
13ob Mader  Exec. News Editor  
MaurePn Flynn  Campus Editor  
Mdrtl Hogc1n  St  Mary's Editor  
Don Reinwr  Copy Editor  
Tim O'Reiley  Features Editor  
F re~l  HPrb~t  Sports Editor  

DOONESJ3URY 
IT'S NO US£3, 
ZONKD<! IF 
VeNTfJI<A'5 70 8£3 STOPPEl), ONt OFUSHA5TO 
BOW j 
by Garry Trudeau 
LACeY OAVEN­
8UT WHY PORT, Pl-EAS& ••. YOU?! IAIIIY ZONK£31<., I MUST IT JUST DON'T 
BE YOU?.' THe SUPPORI! 
( 
Friday, October 29, 1976 

P.O.BoxQ 
· The author (whose name I need "ho are content wllh the present 
not mention. since he ..,u'f!icicntlv situation. discredited it on his own) makes a 
Annoying 
Brian M. ClancycomparisLm which I c<tnnot help

Rah-Rahs 
but laugh at. by comparing the right to life groups to the wo­
Spina 

men'!> temperance league. Surely he would not seriouslv wish to 
Attacked 

equate an unborn child ·to a bottleDear Sir: of Hipple. or Chivas Regal for that 
Again 

matter. seriously,. folks~!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~~
We ''ould li~L· to address this He says only one thing with Dear Editor: letter to a ~mall group of Senior"> which I would care to agree. that

in sel'tion 2~. We refer to tho~e As athletes in defense of ath­
abortion is a moral issue. Hight
few Hah-lbh" "ho in~i!-.t upon letes. we feel it is time someone
you arc! So is murder. and so was 
Who Takes the 
annoving the rc~t of us b~ 
said something in regard to a few

slaven·. UnfortunatelY si'r, where~tanding throughout the home 
rash comments made by sports

vour inoral beliefs sec nothingfootball game~. 
"Tong with taking or restricting columnist Chip Spina. 
A~ rcspon~ihlc S...·niors "ho 
High Road?

the life of another man. then the It was bad· enough when ChiprcalitL' that we mu~t soon accept government has the right and the referred to the Cincinnati Reds, our status as Alumni. we direct obligation to legislate the protect­World Champions, as "overpaid, you to the peopil-on \'our right f<'r ion of the aftlil'ted. in this case overfed, and overpraised prima 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiOrt bu c hwaI d 
instrul'tion. You would note that the unllllrn d1ild. donnas." The way Sparky Ander­the propn wa\ for NO fans to He savs that he i-. di-.gustcd son, Joe Morgan and company

hehaH' is to arrive fa~hionablv 

with the. hara\smcnt of political 
acted before, during and after the

late and gcncraiJ\· intoxicated. WASHINGTON --It has been road, and that's where the votes
candidates which pro-lifers parti­
World Series was not indicative of a

Then L·arrv on various conversa­traditional in most presidential are."
cipate in. mer something which is 
prima donna and makes one

tion-., (prdcrahl~ business deals) campaigns that the men running
"not an clcL·tion issue." Docs he "Well, they're wrong," the cop
wonder about the nature of a

whiil' waiting for an appropriate for President take the high road
rcallv mean this'! Wasn't slaven·
time to return to the Morris Inn or person who would say such a thing. and their running mates for Vice said. "The American people
"an· election issue" in IHoO? 
Mr. Spina made quite an effort to expect their Presidents to take the
Winnebago for a post-game par­President take the low road. For
There were an awful lot of redeem himself in Tuesday's high road. That's why we went to
tv. Americ<•ns who thought so. Isn't some reason it hasn't happened 
· Should vou prdn to remain Observer by saying. "Maybe I was so much expense to build it.
1bortion "an election i~sue" in this year. 
dassilicd as a student (a condi­a little harsh on them back then Nobody likes to see the man they're
1476'! Again. there are an awful ·1 discovered this when I took the
tion no doubt brought on by being going to elect as their leader for the
(Very kind of you. Chip.)

lot of Americans who think so. high road the other day and found a 
on vour feet too much) vou could next four years throwing mud and
What he forgot to mention was that tak~· dircdion~ from ·the Bag­rocks at the other fellow. The low
He savs that "Congress and lonely traffic cop sitting in his ear. 
the states arc re~pons.ible for he predicted Danny Ozark's "You're the first person I've seen 
men. These self-prodaimed social amendments. The President has "hungry" Phillies to sweep the road was built for vice-presidential
up here since the presidential

leaders should he able to demon­candidates only. That's why we
little to do with the process." Reds. But this is another argument campaign started," he said.
strate to vou that the proper While I would agree that he has and an error any non-athlete could "Where is everybody?" I asked. didn't pave it." 

vic\\ ing po.sition i~ on ~·our post­verv little to do with the process. I make.

cnor. After wa,·ing their sack~ Mr. Spina has also sug­'·'I have no idea," he said. "You have a point," I admitted.
would not underc~timate his poli­
during the National Anthem thev ~·As a matter of fact, I came up
gested that Ken Holtzman's state­

tical pull in getting hearings on "They sent me up here after the
are reatlv-to \it at a moments here on the high road in hopes of
ment of playing the game just for

the is..,ue progressed. And come political conventions just to make 
_ notiL'L'. Who arL· \'llU to dispute getting a glimpse of Ford and
time for ratification of the amend­money is "only too indicative of the sure everything was all right. They
those truly das... v students'! Carter myself."
ment. I dare sav that a Presi­sad attitude which permeates the told m~ to expect Ford and Carter dential endorsement would weigh pro ranks today." I couldn't help
INames withheld upon ref1uestI and busloads of press and cam­Well, don't hold your breath,"
hcavih. but notice that Chip quoted a single paign aides and advance men. My the cop said. "I hear they're bothThe final statement which he man from a single team --a team job was to keep the traffic on the taking the low road for their thirdmade. (my personal favorite) with that lost; very easy for a loser to
Humorous high road moving along. But I debate. It's going to be messier
which I take exception, was "I say, very easy for a loser to write haven't had a thing to do." than a stock car race. Listen, I have mav be personally opposed but I about and relate to. Certainly the 
a police car radio stationed on the-~· 
Comparisons 

wili tight forever for the right of a pros play for money; it's their life. I looked along the high road and 
woman to choose." What a noble low road coming in."
But to say that money is all the pros it was completely empty. It was ange~ture! For my money. a man play for is simply writing without eerie feeling. "You mean t'o say "This is Car 99. The President'swho is personally opposed to
Ocar Editors: knowled!!e of the subject matter. neither Carter nor Ford has used limousine is coming through thesomething as crucial as the 
Let's let the sportswriters and 

the high road once?" muck. and Carter's limousine ismurder of an unborn child. but
One ut thL· great tragedies of broadcasters do the play by play
would fight forever for the right of now trying to pass him. Carter is
r'rcc pre~'· the fal'l that you "Nope," he said. "As far as I
and the athletes themselves--the

a woman to choose. is no man. I throwing a fistful of muckat Ford,
"letter~" page mu~t provide can tell from my radio they've both
Giffords, the Kalines, the Rizzutos, 

would suggest the author put his and the President has just picked
,paL'L' for people who have noth­taken the low road. I don't
the Garagiolas--do the analyzing.

name alongside of some of soc­up some mire to sling at Carter.
lllg to sa\. j-., manifc!>ted dail~·· understand it. The low road is
ietv's more notcable inverte­Only then is an athlete done Should we intervene?"
l'he latc-.,t and perhaps most made of dirt. It h~s ruts in it and is
brates: Ted Kenncdv. Birch justice.
hl.1tant example. appeared on Bavh. Jimmv Carter, a·ll men who Robert Cleary full of muck and mire. Why they'd Headquarters' voice came over
Ol'lnbcr 25. "Hates Pro-Lifers." Mike Stenger want to take it when we have a
are "per-;oi1ally opposed" but the radio. "No, Car 99, it's not our 
beautiful concrete highway up here business to interfere with the 

is beyond me." 
candidates. Just keep the low road "That's funny," I told the cop, clear so the television people can "because Ford insisted only last cover it." 

week he was taking the high road, "Roger! Dole is now throwingbut Carter was taking the low road. 
mud at Carter and Mondale, andThen Carter said he tried to take Mondale is throwing garbage atthe high road, but Ford wouldn't Ford and Dole and Nixon."

let him. I wonder if they even know ''We've got you, Car 99. Do you where the hig!-. road is." 
need assistance?" 

"Oh, they know where it is, all "Connally is throwing mud at right," the cop said. "In their Carter now, and Butz is throwing nomination speeches they both manure at anyone he can hit. We promised to take it. Millions of ;ould use some help.'' · people came up here to see them. Headquarters came over the But in spite of their vows neither radio. "Car 76, come in Car 76." man has seen fit to take it just "That's me!" the cop I was with once. said excitedly. "This is Car 76." 
"Maybe their aides won't let "Go down to the low road and them take it. Perhaps the people 
give Car 99 help."running Carter's and Ford's cam­
"What about the high road?" paigns have told them that if they 
the cop asked. take the high road no one will vote "It doesn't look as if we'll need for them. After all, there are a lot 
anyone up there--at least not until more people who live on the low after Election Day." 
\ 

Friday, October 29, 1976 
the observer 
9 

letters· to a lonely God 
the loneliness of being nobod~ 

Last week, travelling on the streets of Boston with the Glee Club, I met a man who whistled. He wasn't just a casual whistler, and he didn't whistle as a hobby. He didn't whistle merely to cheer himself up, as cowards are said to do when they walk past graveyards. He seemed to be a professional whistler, a serious musician whose instrument was the lips and the mouth, for whom whistling was an essen­tial commitment and kidney transplants are for a surgeon. He was, as Holden Caufield said of a classmate at Pennsy Prep, a really terrific whistler, and all of his tunes were patriotic. Four different times in two hours, I met him parading bicentennially through those Boston streets like a fife and drum corps, with a face that belonged on a Toby mug, looking so much like gin-and-bitters in an English pub that he might have been Liza Dolittle's" father. His notes preceded him and trailed after him, strong and confident as a Yankee Doodle Dandy; King George's American cousin. strutting and posturing in the Spirit of '76, marching to the beat of a different drummer on a wet October sidewalk in front of Jordan Marsh's department store. 
I wondered if the Yankee whistler was the Boston equivalent of the Tall Ships in New Xork harbor; a hireling of the Bicentennial Committee, operating on a reduced budget, who sent this patriot in tweedy mufti onto the Common, warbling Sousa marches, as an economy celebration of the Boston Massacre and the self-evi­dent truths that make Americans free. In good old Boston, they say, the home of the bean and the cod, the Lowells talk to the Cabots, and the Cabots talk only to God. But the little chap, I decided, was too beautiful to be an invention of either the Cabots or Lowells, in or out of consultation with the Deity. He was just a fellow who had a gift. a terrific talent for whistling. He would have preferred the Symphony to the sidewalks, I suppose. but the Sym­phony prefers Andre Previn. So, instead of confining his whistle to the closet, he took to Commonwealth Avenue and Boylston Street, and Beacon Hill outside the State House, and he whistles his heart out in melodies that make us brothers and sisters to the Founding Fathers. 


the week in entertainment 
ON THE TUBE 
Friday, October 29 
Hope's World of Comedy (7:00 pm, Channel 16): Twenty-six years of Bob Hope specials are condensed into two hours of memorable moments from the great comedian's shows. Lucille Ball, Neil Simon, Norman Lear and Don Rickles help Hope relive some of the funniest moments in television. 
Badlands (8:00pm, 22): Martin Sheen and Sissy Spacek star in this TV movie modeled after the true story of Charles Stark­weather, a 19-year-old who in 1954 went on a killing spree in Nebraska with his girlfriend that claimed 10 lives. Sheen is a tremendous television actor (The Execu· tion of Private Slovak, Pretty Boy Floyd) whose established talent in difficult roles niakes this a promising prime-time offer­ing. 
Midnight Special (12:00 pm. 16): K.C. and the Sunshine Band welcome Gladys Knight and the Pips, Rick Dees and his Cast of Idiots, Abba and the Bay City Rollers. 
"Nutty as a fruitcake," a policeman said of him, "and a showoff besides." 
"Not a fruitcake at all," I said, "but a Yankee making the best use he knows of the old-fashioned virtue that Emerson calls Self-reliance." 
But I have known the fruitcake types, the 
·sad characters who do their showing off in public places. You meet them, for example on crowded city streets, walking their dogs, stopping traffic as their put the animals through a series of commands to sit, roll over, say their prayPrs, and thump the ground with their paws in asimilitude of counting. The dogs are always beautiful creatures whom you want to steal or buy, or arrange to run off with. But you couldn't buy them, and you really wouldn't steal them, if you head a heart, because they are toQ essential to their trainers as an only treasure. The trainers. you feel. own those dogs as their single glory; all their identity comes from doing tricks with delightfully trained pets, with an admiring crowd as audience. They don't do it for money; they don't ask for money; they pretend not even to notice that a money­carrying crowd is watching. But day and night I have met them in a half-dozen cities, working out their dogs in the densest mobs. needing the mobs, the attention, the applause; yet playing the charade of being alone, as though they were a creature and his master frolicking in a pasture. Sometimes you feel !.orry for the over-worked dog; but you feel even worse for a man who must lean so much on a beast to find an identity. You wonder what they do when the crowds go home, and there is no one left to watch. They must fall asleep in a doorway, with the dog dreaming, perhaps. of a quiet field and a rabbit run. aAd the man dreaming of an audience that stays out on the street forever. 
Sometimes when I'm yelling after Darby O'Gill on the Quads, I am embarrassed that the. campus might mistake me for the kind of fruitcake ~ho steals an identity from his pet. But anyone who knows D. O'G. will recognize that that cocker spaniel only attempts tricking when there are rabbits and squirrels about. He is quite unwilling to shed any reflected glory on his 
Reverend Robert Grih:in 
master by pretending to be clever in public. 
Of all the faces ont· sees on a ctty sidewalk. the ones that are remembered best are those of the persistent betters who will not be ignored. the chaps who become famous for their performing dogs, and the man who whistles tunes on the streets of Bo~ton. We pity them as fruitcakes: we curse them as nuisances: we hate them because they won't roll over in their lonely corners and die quietly as decent fellows should. Perhaps the truth is, in thi~ anti-heroic age, they are the true heroes. In this generation of the zip code. the area code, the social security number, and the computer list, when all of us, for the sake of slick efficiency, are supposed to be as anonymous as the figures on a page. thev become remembered faces in the crowds that have no faces. They quarrel with the loneliness of being nobody. Grumblingly. we have to deal with them, even tt It ts onty to write them off in an unkindly way as fruitcakes. 
It is not just the sidewalk freaks we are writing off these days. In this Friday before the presidential elections, we are also writing off the political candidates. Nonentities, we call them: petty, lustre­less, ambitious little men with the stature of snails, striving for the office of Lincoln; we hate them for being less than anony­mous. But where are the leaders we could call charismatic: the lincolns, the states­men the messiahs? All of them dead by the assassin's bullets, or defeated by unworth­ies in the primaries? Or are some of them tucked away in the safety of the closet, like whistlers requiring a symphony to perform with, sniping at the silly figures that strut on the public sidewalk? Are they sniping at Jerry Ford? Yet he was the public servant whom his colleagues in Congress chose. expecting it would be his personal chore to restore the confidence of the nation and the world in the integrity of the government after Watergate: this certainly -was not a cheaply-won credential. Are they sniping at Jimm~· Carter? A nonentity. perhaps. but he cared enough to spend twenty-two months campaigning for the office from which he could lead us. Ambition may not be as precious as 
by david o'keefe 
Saturday, October 30 

NCAA College Football (12:45 pm. 28): The top-ranked and un .eaten Michigan Wolverines take on the Minnesota Golden Gophers. Unless they are emotionally discouraged after just h..ving been placed on probation, Tony Dungy and the Gophers could pull an upset. It will take a fine aerial attack to beat Bo Schembechler and the 
1 Gophers are probably the best passing team in the Big Ten. but I wouldn't bet my house on Minnesota.. 
McQ (8:00 pm, 16): John Wayne plays a Seattle cop who turns in his badge to hunt the man \\ ho killed his partner. Long on violence and short on story, this film was a box-office embarrassment for the Duke. 
Sunday, October 31 

NFL Football (I :00 pm. 22): The Minnesota Vikings battle_ the Bears in Soldiers Field in a rematch of their thrilling 20-19 victl·ry over Chicago earlier this season. A spec;al attraction will be the matchup betw e ~n Walter Payton and Chuck Foreman. two of the best running bacll.s in the game. 
The Big Event (8:00pm. 16): This week's entry in NBC's fine series of specials is Life Goes to the Movies. a three-hour history of American movies based on LIFE maga­zine's excellent book. The abundant film dips from Shirley Temple to Jack Nichol­son will please avid afficionados and casual moviegoers alike. Henry Fonda, Shirley MacLaine and Liza Minelli are the hosts. 
Live and Let Die (9:00 pm. 28): Roger Moore is a bit stilted as James Bond, but this revival of Ian Fleming's superspy is otherwise just as improbably and enter­taining as the series that featured Sean Connery. In this film, 007 travels to New York City, Louisiana and the Caribbean in search of the killer of three tellow agents. A spectacular speed boat-police car chase highlights the movie. 
MondaJ, November 1 
MondaJ Night Football (9:00pm. 21:\): Bert Jones leads the Baltimore Colts against the surprisingly tough Houston Oilers in a game that pits one of the stingiest defense in the NFL (Houston's) and the highest­scoring offense in the league. Howard Coscll reports from Baltimore while Frank Gifford and Alex Karra'> try to get a few words in edgewise. 
ON THE SCREEN 

Boiler House 1: BillJ Jack (7:00, 9:30 ­$2.50) 
Boiler House II: The Other Side of the Mountain (7:00, 9:15-$2.50) 
Colfax: The Gnome Mobile (7:30, 9:00 ­$3.00) 
River Park: The Ritz (1:\:05, 9:45 -$3.00) 
Town & Country 1: Alex and the G_ypsJ (7:45, 9:45 -$3.00) 
Town & Country II: Marathon Man (7:00. 9:30 -$3 ..00) 
Forum 1: Bittersweet Love (7:30, 9:30 ­$3.00) 
Forum II: Let's Talk About Men (7:00, 9:00 -$3.00) 
·Special Midnight Shows at the Forum theaters on Friday and Saturday nights at reduced prices: Pink Floyd and Slaughter­house Five. 
platinum as a qualification for election. and maybe Jimmy Carter's most offensive 1u5ting is his lusting for power; but he has sr .:cessfully quarreled with the loneliness .1f being nobod~·. and that by itself make~ him more of a hero than the rest of us who never risk an~·thing. 
Sometime, when you arc feeling di~­couraged about the future of the ,·nuntn. travel to Boston with a group like the Gll'l· Club. With a group like the Glee CI!Jb. \llll can sec beaut\· and talent performing on a concert ~tate. litcrall\' inspiring audi<'Tll'L'~ to a cheering cnthu~ia'>m for Notre Dame. During lunch'>tnp.., at McDonald'~. Ill the quiet moments bt fore going ,,n ''a.l!l'. Ill the evenings afr~·r the concert~ art· cl\ L'r and the beer is all drunk. on the bu~ 1\ hen the pillow fights ha\'C ended and thl' earth~· humor becomes men· \\ hi~pcr,. you can hear the C'lubbn.., talkin.l! "t thL· 
....­
hopes· and ambition~ ~·ou rccogni1~· ''' be their dreams; or \'OU '>ec or hear of them doing the thoughtful thing. tht· dt·c'l'llt thing. even the loving thing. tn bnng hl'lp. pleasure. or comfort to a friend or llL'I' acquaintance. Then you realize. 1f \OU art· tifty, that the torch. as it passe~. will he received into the hands of an intelligent and grace-tilled generation, of \1 hirh the Glee Club on tour is a microcosm. 
Then, go into the streets -in Bo'>!nn. or 
New York, or Nashua, New Hamp'>hirc. or 
Pittsburgh. or all points evcryw hnc for 
the Glee Club travels almost as much as 
Kissinger. and all of them who want to. will 
marry much prettier wives -anJ nn the 
street, if you arc lurky. ~·ou nJa\ meet a 
man who whistles. You mav IH'l care 
much for whistling. but you havi: lc' ad<nirc a 
man who carries his music with h1 . The 
Glee Club carries music with them. ~hat is 
one of the things that make . them 
beautiful. I wouldn't be surprist·' \-rrv 
Ford and .limmv Carter also hao_ o;il' 
in them that is. stronger than tf m 
their hearts. I have enough fa1 1e 
courage of men who quarrel 1e 
loneliness of being nobody to bt at 
the tunc of these political sc :s 
would. if sung by the Glee Club d 
in Boston. be both beautiful an. 
because the music I hear them 
despite the hum.drum and the I' 
are the notes of "God Bless An 
ON STAGE 
Jacques Brei is Alive and Well ani '.i· ::-~ 
in Paris: This unu'>ual musical . a--d '"' 
the works of French o;ongman Jacqu• --B· _I 
brings live t!watcr to the Na11 l' ''rid,11 
and Saturda~ nights. (1~:30 pm. S· ., · 
The Chinese Acrobats of Taiwa; The performance !'' thi'> troupe. nn th lirst tour of Amcri•..1, include.., tumbli ,tJ1d juggling acl'>. •ng-fu dt'nHHl'>tr..Jt. HI breathtaking ial al't'>. Tht'\ h,, ,.11 plea..,ing audit-L''> and LTitir'> alik IJlg the tour and o' ·r an opportunit\ a
'('t' 
rare form of e1· -rtainmcnt linch r ·-form· cd. (Monday :.lO pm. M1;rr: C'i\ it' Audi1orium. Cal, 2H4-ll711 or 232 -'-4 for tickets. which r• ngc fron: SJ.OO t• · --,()()) 
A Concert of ('hinese Cheng \tusk: Renowned CJ11, '>l' nHI'>iL·ian Liam• T~ai­Ping plavs Chi1 \l' piece.., in the ditlnt·nt "mollc'>" or In·.., on the "chl'!lg... a 16-stringed inst• umcnt that most t'lthch resembles a zith r. Chinc..,c mu..,i,· rnu~t h~· understood in it' ,·ultural context. in "' h1d1 it represents a '.'l'r\· revered ritual. (!\1Pn­day. 4:20pm. Libran· Auditorium. frcl'. 1 
ON THE AIR 
Notre Dame \'S, Na\y Ted Robinson and Paul "Frenchic" Hess report all the action from C'levclanrl's Munici-pal Stadium as the Fighting Irish meet the Middies. ( 12:55 pm, WSND 640 am) 
Notre Dame Hocke): The Irish leers open the 76:77 WCHA season this weekend with a pair of home games against the Spartam of Michigan State. Steve Garagiola and John Stenson report the plav-bv-plav. (Friday and Saturday, 7:30pm, WS.ND)­


-'---~---­
Nazi War trials go on 
by Da\·id Minthom Associated Press Writer 
DlJFSSELDOKf. West Germany tA \') -The war crimes trial ~f onL·timc New York housewife Her­mine Braun-.tcincr Kvan and other tkfcndants unma.,kL:d a'> former 1\Mi death camp guard., has loosed 
;1 lloqd of quc'>tion' from German tu·n-agcrs. 

I 
• Manv arc a'>king about the I -,Jow IlL''" of ju'ticc. Some arc 
' 
arguing the pros and eons· of

I 
digging up the past and c,mfront­

l i 
ing trail. eldcrlv defendants with frail. elderly at·l·users who have t troubk recalling each other or \Til\'> of ncar!~· two generations 
ago. , 

I• H.~·an \\a'> extradited to West 
I (inmam in 1473 after surrender­ing hn .American citizenship. She 
~ 
I I 
i-, one of lin· \\omen and nine men d1argcd \\ilh murder in connection with mas> 'hnoting'>. gassings, 

~ 10 
l 
h,lnging'>. fatal whippings and

I 
deadh injections of .Jewish inmates

I 
at Majdanek n•nl·L·ntration camp in

I 
lublin. Poland in 1441-44 . 

• ·1 h,· Majdanl'k trial. expected to he Wc'>l (il'l"mam ·.,last maJor case 1m·oh ing ,·amp guards. began II months ago in a courtroom jammed with journalist' and middle-aged '>pertator.,. Sinre then. media cov­nagc ha., waned and German high >rhool classes ha\T replaced the bulk of adult spcl'latol". at Duessel­dorf state rourt. 
The Austrian-hornKvan. 57. was the lir'>t U.S. resident to he turned O\l'l" to the West Germans for war nimcs prosecution. Seventy-three other aliens arc being investigated on similar charges. and the U.S. go\Trnmcnt has started dcnatural­italion and deportation proceed­ings again'>t '>even of them. 
Lh ing with the past 

"We can't clo.,e our eves to the past. The Nat.i era has t\; he rolled out so 11-c can under'itand ho11 it happened." said Peter Schweder­'>ki. 17. whose 12th-grade class at Duesseldorf'., Lessing High School attended the trial's 95th session this week. 
·'I'm not conlTrned that war -rimes trials arc glaring reminders >f Gcrmall\''s past that could hurt JUr image in foreign countries." 'aid Hdmut Weber. an 18-year-old 
:lassmatc. "To me it's a question
1f seeing justice done and learning 
()live with the past."
Their teacher. Dr. Walter Risch­.
T, said he dended to take his class 

Jf 24 to the war crimes trial 1L'cause it tit in with their studies of .ierman fasci~m in the 1920s and
1430s. Ki.,rhcr. Jh. and the other teach­
• 

,\·ill appear-in a solo performance of 'Walk together Children," a -ronirlc of the black experience in ;>oetry. prose and song at O'Laugh­
:in Auditorium Oct. 30. The Jrogram isa sponsored bv Notre Dame's Black Studies Program and .he Cooperative Department of :ipen·h and Drama, and tickets, Jriccd at $1, may be purchased at he door. 
A native New Yorker. Vinic 111ade her Broadway debut in a ,how with Helen Hayes and has '>ince performed on and off Broad­
•\ av with Ossie Davis. Raymond ~t. Jacques. Mary Martin, Eartha ~itt, l.Joorrey Lamondge and Hhers. ·Her career as a solo artist Jcgan in t%3 and her performan~ :es have included "Female of the Species," "Shout Freedom," 'Echoes of Africa." "From Swords 
.... :o Plowshares," "Dark Fire," ·Sister! Sister!" and the current how. 
In addition to a three-week .ellout stint in Philadelphia, Vinie tas taken "Walk Together Child­·en" to a Pan-African Cultural ers regard the trial as a good opportunity for young Germans born after World War II to confront the horrors of the Nazi regime. 
During a trial break, the students discussed controversies surround­ing war crimes prosecutions here, sue_h as the excessive lime needed to bring charges and complete trials. the scarcity of solid witnes­ses and the often intirm and elderly defendants. 
''Why did it take so long to bring these people to trial?" asked Thomas Lange, 18. "The prose­cutors said they needed the proper evidence hut this shouldn't take 13 vcars. . Wolfgang Jahn, 17, who was making his Sl'L'Ond visit to the trial. asserted. "It's inhumane and an imposition to ask former inmates to talk about incidents they've spent 40 years trying to forget. Witnesses I've heard can't even recall names of ramp guards or identify these defendants." · 
Kcimund Schmitt. 19, remarked, "One of the women complained she had already served a jail term in Poland but still they brought her here to stand trial a second time. She said it was unfair to punish the little people after most of the big shots escaped." 
Actually. 22 top Nazis were convicted of war crimes in 1946 hv the \!lied tribunal at Nuremberg and I I of 1hem were sentenced to death. 
"Crimes were committed and judgmenh arc necessary, but is jail a correct punishment for these aging defendants'!" another youth 
a~kcd.  ·  
Ryan's story  
Kvan.  a gaunt.  gray-haired  

woman. refused comment when approached during a trial recess. She was freed on $17.000 bail .last 
April after three years in  a West  
German jail.  
Rvan  was  convicted  bv  an  

Aus.trian court in I949 and sen­tenced to three years in jail for mistreating female inmates at Kavenshrurk concentration camp ­one of her three posts during the war. 
She met Ryan in 1957 in the Austrian Alps. They married a year later and· she emigrated by way of 
Canada. They settled in the New
York Borough of Queens, and in 19oJ she was given U.S. citizen-
sh;~· 1904. the Nazi crimes docu­
mentation center in Vienna tipped off U.S. officials Mrs. Ryan was a concentration camp guard. West German~· extradited her. Her U.S . 
citizenship was invalidated. on wounds s~e. co~cealed . her_ w.ar 
cnmes convtctron 111 applymg tor 1t. 
Mrs. Ryan, who wants restora­
tion of Austrian citizenship, says 
she will appeal any conviction on 
grounds the court has no jurisdic­
tion because she is not German and 
the alleged crimes occurred in 
Poland. 
According to the indictment, between 250,000 and one million Poles, Soviet prisoners of war and Jews were murdered between 1941 and 1944 at the camp. southeast of Warsaw. 
West German investigators drew up a list of 1,300 men and women who were guards and officials at Majdanke, but nearly 1,000 of them were dead or missing when charges were drawn up. Of the remainder. only 17 could be indicted on charges of personal involvement. Two were too ill to come to court 
~· ­
.
and one 73-year-old defendant, 

You think your room is small? Try rooming in an elevator. These Alice Orlowski, died after the trial 
McCandless residents di"d (but only for one day) as a protest started. 

against overcrowding. (Photo by Debbie Krilich.) 

IRA organizer killed in hospital 
BELFAST, Northern Ireland [AP] • 
Three youths assassinated IRA 
political organizer Maire Drumm as 
she lay in a hospital bed last night, 
police reported. 
They said the youths burst into 
Ward 3 of the Mater Hospital in 
Belfast, pulled out revolvers and 
shot Mrs. Drumm. Another 
woman patient in the ward was 
shot in the leg, police said. 
The youths then ran out of the 
ward and disappeared. 
Mrs. Drumm, 56, was former 
vice-president and principal poli­
tical organizer. for the Provisional 
Sinn Fein, the legal political arm of 
the outlawed Irish Republican 
Army's Provisional wing. 
The Provisional IRA is a mainly 
Roman Catholic movement fighting to drive the British from Northern Ireland and unite the province with the Irish Republic. 

Mrs. Drumm resigned her Sinn Fein post several weeks ago for health reasons. She entered the hospital, which caters to Catholic patients, for a cataract operation on her eyes. 
Mrs: Drumm was a fiery speaker and one of the best-known political figures in Ireland. She was arrested in September after a weekend of violence in Belfast that her opponents charged she helped inspire. 
On that occasion, she told a Belfast rally the city would be "torn down stone by stone" if the British went through with a plan to strip imprisoned IRA members of 
~\i_S-1111~ 
ti ~-' -~ 
...-..• EMPLOYER 
The Boar's Head ··s audl"t•"onl"ng 1 &2 pl"ece groups for OUr COCkta"ll lounge hOUrS 0 f entertainment run 8:00 pm to 1:OOam 
lues'thru Sat (soft rock & gul"tar & vocal) Apply ··n person for appt. between 2-4 pm M th F · A k f J"m Pa1"nter
on ru n s or I -manager 
**********************1c1c1c1c1c1c1c1c1c 
Black Stud1es Program ~ Honiecoming presents poetry chronicle ~ 
-tr Ticket package 
Broadwav actress Vinic Burrows Festival in Algiers, television spec­
~
ials in Bucharest and Amsterdam, and an amphitheater performance i{ Still Available on Friday, of 10.000 spectatores in Stockholm. 
The show was attended by more il October 29 than 50.000 Dutch youth during a 28-citY tour of Holland in 1971. .. ~ 
"Walk Together Children" re­calls the black journey from auction 
~Student Union Ticket Office
block to new nation time and uses taped music and slide projections of paintings, lithographs and 
~ from I~.~ 4 
photographs relevant to the black experience. Vinnie was a delegate and performer at the World Con· ~ $36 in_cludes: gress of Women in Berlin in 1975. 
,..2 Miami vs. N.D. Football· Jimmy the Greek ~ Tickets picks carter 6-5 ._2 Doobie Brothers Concert 
' 

LAS VEGAS, Nev. (AP) . Las 
Vegas oddsmaker Jimmy "the Greek" Snyder said Thursday he sees Democrat Jimmy Carter as a narr?w ':"inner _in next we~k's 
prestdenttal electton. 
ites~::re~;:;:i~:~a;0~~~­
6-5 favor· 

il Tickets 
...., 
~ C d bl f 1 
.. 0Up0n re eema e Or 
...., • k 
"special category" status that allowed them privileges not given regular prisoners. 
Mrs. Drumm was freed after nearly three weeks in jail. Pro­testants called the release "a downright disgrace." One Pro­testant militant said that "her statements contribute as much to violence in Ulster as the IRA volunteer who fires a rifle or plants a bomb." 


~ Homecoming Dance TIC et ..J~ ~ 7 • ~~,4 ""'
i' , .,, 3b~.-ir 
...*****************************1c 
· ~ 
Around ~ 
iC the world in i(
i( 80 days!!!! il 
.. 
~ ~ ~ 
il 
~ 
il 
-tr 
...., 
~
it 
~ ...., 


Friday, October 29, 1976 the observer 1 1 
-1

Defend immigrants' rights 
Bishops opposed to new iminigration laws l 
by Karen Hinks wish to immigrate to the United unfairly impeded in their efforts to very seriously why they have very humanly. The bishops became Staff Reporter States. organize. We also urge Catho!ics in rejected the document,'' Garate very aware of the needs of the "The new law eliminates the Labor, Management and Govern­stated. "The bishops have started Christian community. No one was 
Recent resolutions passed by the provision whereby citizen children ment to support these organizing this progressive process and we against each other. but instead National Conference of Catholic can petition for the immigration of efforts." hope the bishops will accept what worked together for an important Bishops and affecting Spanish­their parents," Garate explained. the people are asking of them." cause---the advancement of human 
''This means that either Spanish­Recommendation Two in the Bissonnette. pastoral action rights and social juqice." Bisson­
speaking persons were the topic of a press conference called yesterday speaking families will be disunited, document Humankind Defense of coordinator. explained that the nette emphasi.'cd. by three concerned delegates to or citizen children will be deported. Human Rights further states: "people of the conference know The three memhers concluded that meeting. The work provision of the adjust­"That the Church recognize that what it is like to be a Christian and with the affirmation that the con­
Rigelio Manrique, Fr. Martin ment of status section will further the issue of undocumented immi­a Catholic and more importantly. a ferences arc a part of a long Garate and Fr. Thomas Bissonnette impose an undue hardship on gration into the United States is an part of this conference.·· process. not one isolated moment. Spanish-speaking people by greatly international question and that He said that the people attending The conferences mark the L·limax of
explained that resolutions passed 
undocumented immigrants have were sensitive to the people of this a year of pario,h discuo,sions and of
last week in Detroit by the Call for limiting access to adjustment.'' Action Conference on Liberty and Garate said. the basic human rights to be free country who have become margin­national and local hcarin~s. !.!L'arL·d from economic and physical abuse a·lizcd. towards the formulation 'ot ·a fi1 c­
Justice for All have a direct affect on more than one-fourth of the by the United States government­"The people found a new year pastoral program to pnHnotL'
ERA supported

Catholic community in the United and private employers. In particu­capacity to speak person to person human righh and social justil'c. States. lar. the Church should condemn 
Manrique, director of the Mid­Some of the recommendations the physical abuse of undocu­west Regional Office of Spanish­which express the concerns of the mented women by supporting Business students elected speaking persons, explained that Spanish-speaking are contained in legislation which grants immunity the delegates attempted to identify the conference document on Work, to deportation where an abuse is 
to national honor society 
with issues of injust>e, suggested which presents some specific alleged while the alleged abuse is 
specific actions the Church as an recommendations: being investigated. We further Seventeen seniors have been institution, or people as Christians I. The recommendation on equal recommend that the Church also elected to membership in the Notre and Catholics can take to bring opportunity calls for equal employ­recognize that undocumented im­Dame chapter of BEta Gamma about a more just and free society. ment within the Church as well as migrants in the United States have Sigma, the national honor society 
Of serious concern to those providing assistance in the public a basic human right to sustain for students in the College of attending the three-day conference and private sector to bring about themselves through employment. Business Administration. accord­was the Eilberg Bill (H.R. 14535), equal opportunity. Because The Church should encourage ing to the club's president. Edward 
signed by President Ford Oct. 20. Spanish-speaking women are often legislation granting amnesty to all Murphy. The formal initiation will According to the member~. th~ law victims of unequal opportunity and undocumented workers in the take place April 5. is a major disappointment because exploitation. the sections asking for United States." They are: Cindy Buescher, it establishes a ceiling of 20,000 support of the Equal Rights patrick Cathey, Joseph Cheney, immigrants per year from Latin Amendment are of great impor­Timothy Collins, Joseph Coyne,
Workers must unionize

American countries. Mexico in tance. Barbara D'Aquilla, Colleen Har­particular will be limited to less 2. " ... That. Catholics encourage rington, Ralph Higgins, Steven than one-half its current number of and assist unemployed and unor­Garate expressed concern not Huff. Kevin Huston. Thomas immigrants to the U.S. (45.000 ganized workers, regardless of Lacny. Mary Laughlin. Catherine
only for immigrants. but also for farm workers. "I feel that it is very 
under the former yearly quota and immigrant status, to join or form Malkus, David O'Brien, Eric Ryan. 65,000 when special privileges unions to represent their common important for the people to address Thomas Sheffield and Stephen previously granted arc considered). interest and support legislation the issues and even more important Skiba. 
Delegates at the Call to Action which encourages such organiza­for the people to organize together Beta Gamma Sigma was founded Conference expressed resentment tiOn. Church-related social service so they can defend their rights." in 1913 to encourage and reward 
at the signing into law of the and social action agencies should Garate observed that the unioniza­scholarship and accomplishment in Eilberg Bill. Garate, editor of allocate a percentage of their tion of the workers enables them to the field of business studies, to CARA A CARA, a Spanish­personnel and resources to assist in address the issues by going into the promote advancement of education 
speaking Catholic commission, the organizational work as wanted camps and speaking to fellow in the science of business and to stated that the extreme limitation and needed by unorganized work­workers. foster principles of honesty and will add to the already lengthy ers and thereby direct their efforts. integrity in business practices.
A second bishops' conference is

waiting period and will further especially to workers presently Members are from the top ten
scheduled to take place in the
frustrate Mexican nationals who employed at poverty wages and percent of the senior class in the School of Business Administration. Memers of the top tive pcrLTnt were inducted last spring. 
Professor Howard P. Lanser of the finance department is the society's moderator. 
Grateful l)ead* "sEMI-LIVE" 
MARKET·SQUARE ARENA TAPE 
1\ath:ikeller 
SUNDAY 1:30pm
f
* ree

spring. Garatc said he hoped that ~----~~~~~~--~ the bishops would look at the requests and realize that they arc
Business seminar held 
the expression of the country and in particular an address to the Catho­
* 
lic community.
to celebrate 25th year 
"If the bishops reject part or 

*
The Supervisory· Development awareness of the human element in 
don't accept part of the document,
Program of Notre Dame's college the work situation. Members of the 
the people will expect them to think 
of Business Administration will Notre Dame faculty will join Bella 
THE
observe a silver anniversary when in the instruction of classes dealing the 1976-77 evening sessions begin with problerr. solving, decision AnthropologistNov. 2. To celebrate the event making, group dynamics, commun­
sponsors are planning an executive cation, conflict resolution, motiva­
named to fame
development seminar for leaders of tion and other subjects. firms sending employees to the Since the opening in 1951, the IN CONC-ERT 
•
NEW YORK (AP) -"Mv two

program. supervisory program has trained interests in awards." said a'nthro­
Directed by Dr. Salvatore J. more than I,700 men and women pologist Margaret Mead. "are to
Bella, Jesse Jones Professor of representing more than 330 firms Management, the series of 15 in Indiana and Michigan. The goal 
publicize an institution that's ••• Saturday Noven1ber 20 • 
important or to accept a tax-free gift I can then give to some other,
Tuesday evening classes are of sponsors is to promote healthy 
•

designed to develop skills of super­organizational relationships, achi­8:00PM
good cause."
visory em•ployees and to create an eve an understanding of the forces affecting the supervisor's job and 
So saying, she was inducted 

to sharpen the supervisor's sense
All for Schorr-­Thursday into the Women's Hall of NOTRE DAME ACCof res~onsibility toward his superi­Fame, in Seneca Falls. N.Y.. site of ors, hts fellow supervisors and his 
the first Women's Rights Congress
subordinates.
chances poor 
in the late 19th Century.
A fee of $175 for the program 
PRESENTED BY NOTRE DAME CONCERT •SCHENECTADY. N.Y. !AP)-A covers tuition, instructional mater­In the ceremonies at Carnegie 
COMMISSION

group of Schenectady area resi­ial, refreshments served at breaks Recital Hall. two women were dents has launched a campaign to dur.ing ·the 7 to 9 p.m. class named posthumously to the hall of 
•

enter the name of former CBS ~ TICKETS $6.50, 5.50 ON SALE ~ 
periOds, and the graduation ban­fameo. Abigail Adams, wife of 
-,... MONDAY NOV. 1 AT: ACC STUDENT -,...
correspondent Daniel Schorr as a quet when certificates are present­President John Adams and mother write-in candidate for the congres­er! to students. The executive of President John Quincv Adams; 
UNION AND ALL ACC OUTLETS. sional seat held by Samuel S. semi~ar is planned for a Saturday and athlete Babe Didrikson Stratton. mormng at the conclusion of-· the Zaharias. Stratton led the recent unsuc­program: cessful fight to h11ve Schorr cited for contempt for leaking a secret 
r-----------------.,,---------------------.*********... 
House report to the Village Voice, 
1 AUDIO OUTLET 1 JUGGLER 


the newspaper which published it. Stratton, who faces only token 
I Campus Sales I 
opposition for re-election next week, has dismissed the write-in 
I I 
campaign as "just a gag. Nobody in this district is going to seriously I ~~ u'}~ STEREO EQUIPMENT I vote for Mr. Schorr." 
Schorr, however, isn't even eli­I -: ·'' :J at guaranteed lowest 1 
gible to represent New Yorkers. 1 Contacted at his home in Wash­I ­ington, D.C., Schorr said he was I prices 20% 40% alf listI 
"flattered" by the group's action but that he had "no interest in running for office." I Jim Swartz 272 -39981 The group of local residents said 
I

they were entering Schorr's name Dave Pearse 277 08251 as a sympolic gesture to protest 
. I
Stratton's stance· in the Schorr 
controversy and his support of I IN CAMPUS VIEW APTS. I 
large defense. appropriations: ' 
~----------------~ 
Notre Dame's Journal of the Arts 
is now accepting for publication 
poetry, fiction, drama, photography, art,-design, criticism 

SUBMIT MATERIAL TO : JUGGLER, LaFortune Center 
-or-
ENGLISH DEPT. 356 0 'Shag 
DEADLINE : NOV. 4 
.. 



The 

Charlie Daniels Band Saddle Tramp 
•ncludtng 

Dt•oe On My Mtnd Sweet Loutstana W•chrta Ja•l Cumberland Mountam Number Ntne Its My L1fe Sweetwater Texas 
~~ 
RECORDS 
919 B College Square Mishawaka, Indiana 46544 Phone: 255-0266 (Across from T& C Shopping Center Mon -Sat 1 0 am to 9 pm Sunday Noon to 6 pm 
On McKinley) 
~e.R(J$~11jt 
Toys in the Attic 
tncludtng· Walk Thts Way No More No More Toys In The ANte, Sweet Emot1on You See Me Cry1ng 

--------------~-----~-------------------------------------......., 
ND professor explains derivation of Halloween, interest in occult 
by Steve Graham Associated Press Writer 

t 
SOUTH BEND IND. [AP] -To most persons, goblins witches and ghosts are tiny figures scampering about the neighborhood on Hallo­ween, but an increasing number of people are seriously delving into the occult, says a Univerity of Notre Dame professor. 
Dr. Jeffry B. Russell, director of the Catholic university's Medieval Institute, says the last decade has seen an "extraordinary revival of interest in the occult.': 
Russeii, 42, says motion pictures such as "The Exorcist" and "The Omen" have stimulated new inter-· est in the supernatural. 
"Scores of books have been written on witchcraft and dia­bolism," he said. "And in San Francisco, you can find Satanist churches listed in the Ye\Iow Pages.'' 
Russe\I has written his own book, "Witchcraft in the Middle Ages.'' 
''The worship of Satan is one ancient religion that has been repressed by Christianity," he said, but opined that Satanist churches tend to be more the result of opportunism than inspired fervor by their founders. 
''They have composed rites and 
ceremonies they happen to feel are 
attractive,'' he said. 
He said two women college 
students studying t~e history of 
witchcraft became imbued with the 
subject -almost to their deaths. 
"The two girls probably were 
unstable to begin with," he said. 
"They slashed each other's wrists, 
but fortunately they were found 
before they bled to death.'' 
The name Ha\Ioween comes from Ali Hallows Eve, or the night before All Hallows Day or All Saints Day. Russell said. · 
One encyclopedia says the dem­
onic diversions of Halloween came 
from an attempt by the Christian 
church in the Dark Ages to combine 
pagan ritual of the ancient Druids 
with Christianity. 
Russell said that theory doesn't 
entirely explain the phenomenon. 
·'The Druids get credited with a lot 
of things," he said. "That doesn't 
explain a lot of people running 
around in witch's costumes. In 
England where the Druids were 
they don't celebrate Halloween the 
way we do.'' 
The closest thing to our Hallo­
ween in England is Guy Fawkes 
Day where the British celebrate the 
anniversary of the day Fawkes tried to blow up Parliament in the early 17th century, Russell said. That day is celebrated in November. 
Russeii said the occult nature of such festivities could come from the fire rituals of the ancient Britons before they were converted to Christianity. 
The rituals, held in the fall as days became shorter and nights longer, probably were to signify the hoped-for victory of light over dark, he said. 
·'They are still celebrated at some places in England and Scot­land where they have been handed down for centuries," he said. 
History shows that interest in the occult in-creases in times of rapid cultural change and dislocation, he said. "It is no coincidence that over the past 10 years, Americans' belief in God has declined while belief i-n the devil has risen -no coincidence that church attendance lags while participation in occult societies booms.'' 
And do his own children ply the neighborhood in the best trick-or­treat tradition? 
"Oh yes," he said, "At least the two youngest ones do. The oldest two are kind of tired of the whole tl}ing." 
Robot unbeatable at poker table 
CHICAGO [AP], -Short, squat and ugly, he can play an unbeat­able hand of poker despite his rotten sense of bluff. But more important. the fat "man" soon may replace semi-skilled lJb,>rers· by the thousands. 
Series 10, ~o-called, is an ex­ample of a third-generation robot ­18 inches high, six feet in diameter and complete with "sight. sensors and two arms, that have fingers. 
Sweden wants tax payments from prostitutes 
STOCKHOLM. Sweden (AP) Swedish tax authorities want pros­titutes to declare their income, and some of the _girls in the world's oldest profession seem wi\Iing ­provided they get the tax-funded. social benefits, too. · 
A task force of the Internal Revenue Service which investi­gates sources of hidden income is engaged in the operation. 
"Because prostitution means in­come from business activity, pros­titutes should pay tax. If a woman has received more than three clients, she should be regarded as taxable, provided she prostitutes 
' herself with gainful intent and the income is not too small," a spokesman for the tax unit stated. 
grippers. wrist movement," says 
Bernard Sallot, executive director 
of he Robot Institute of America. 
A relatively simple model, the 
robot was on display this week at 
the first North American Industrial 
Robot Congerence. demonstrating 
its abili\ty to sort a deck of cars. 
The manufacturere. Auto-Place, 
Inc., of Trov. Mich., said the robot 
can be programmed to play poker 
"so the house would be unbeat­
able.'' but it said the cost to do that 
would be prohibitive. 
Counterparts, though. soon will 
replace thousands of semi-skilled 
worders -perhaps hundreds of 
thousands of them -in factory jobs, 
Sal lot said in an interview. 
In less than a decade, robots wiii be common in manufacturing, said Sallot, who predicts the robot industry_'s sales will increase from $18 million this year to as much as $50 million in 1977. 
Once found only in science fiction, robots have progressed rapidly since the early 1960's. In the United States, about 6,000 industrial robots perform such tasks as heavy lifting. welding, die-casting and paint-spraying in auto and electrical industries and other smaller businesses. 
"And that figure is rapidly becoming academic. There's a tremendous backlog of orders'' for the robots that cost from a few 
' 



" 
.., 
,, ' 
'
' ' 
' 
' ' ' 
' 
~ ' ' 
'·
" 
"" 
\ ., ' ' 
.~, \ ' ' 
'\ ,,
' 

' . ' .... '" 
' 
' 

... ' \ " 
' ' ' 
' 

.... ' ' ,'
' ' 
' ' 
·, 
"' 

thousand dollars to more than $100,000. Sallot said. 
Abroad. expecially in countries like Japan and Sweden, govern­ments have funded robot research. 
Today's most complex models possess "movement. sight or pat­tern recognition, the ability to identify certain objects by feel and the ability to respond to simple voice commands," said Sallot. 
Future roliots. he added, could completely automate factories. 
Tonv Connole, a retired United Auto Workers official attending the conference, said industry's use of robots in inevitable. "You can't stop technology. That would be a long-term mistake." he said. 
He said unions. with individual employers and government. should 
try  to  "minimize  the  impact  of  
displacement  of  human  labor  by  
robots.·'  

Sallot maintained labor leader·s. wary of potential job loss through use of robots. are "realists," 
"They recognize that U.S. pro­ductivity must keep up with pro­duction abroad." he said. "In the final analysis, financial benefits are shared by labor as· we\I as busi­ness. 
In another sen·-··, he said; the robot industry is 1;romoting use of mechanical men .n work that is notoriously hazardous, dirty, bor­ing. heavy and tir.i'ng." 
Fly off 

Friday, October 29, 1976 the observer 13 

The seco!"d annual Stanford Hall Pumkin Carving Contest was held l_ast mght. The Grand Prize Pumkin [shown above] was subm1tted by Tom Thompson. Thompson received a $25 gift 

certificate for his entry. Se,~eral other pr_izes were.also awarded for various categories. The. Most Femmme Pumkm" came from Jim Sullivan. Sullivan rece1_ved a red Stanford ~tud T-shirt for his creation. A green T :sh1ft was awarded _to B1ll Kresse. Kresse's pumkin, complete w1th Playboy Magazme, was named the "Most Studly." . . The "Most Origina~" pumkin was submitted by Mike Kelly. T1ckets to torJ)orrow mght's hockey game were awarded for this catPI!orv. 
8 elobwb_is sh?~n onf" of the many entries in the contest. (J'hoto

bY 0 e 1e Knhch) 
.. 

to something new... ' ...write for the Obsetver Editorial Page. 
We are trying to dig up some new columnists who are interested in commenting on the issues ofthe day We want people who can think and write clearly about campus, local, national and international issues. We want people who are not afraid to take a stand. 
For more information cal~ 1715 and ask for Pat. Or come up and see us at the Observer office (top floor of LaFortune). '\ ' \ ·~ '· 
\ 
' 
' 
' 
\ \ ' 
\ . \ 


Poisoning possible in legionnaires' disease 
disease. ~ubcommittee chairman said yes­search for a hacter'ial · or viral "I'm afraid that my remarks on ive because we also found 
WASHINGTON (AP) , A House investigation concentrated on a was "amazed at this quotation." some legionnaires were inconclus­
Murphy added, "the exposure-to terday "it is not inconceivable" disease rather than a toxic­nickel carbonyl must have been the possible role of nickel as a increased concentrations of nickel that legionnaire disease resulted poisonous substance, "the true causative fuctor of legionnaires' in some of the control specimens
introduced wilfully. because the from deliberate poisoning. but a cause mav never be known." sent to us by Pennsylvania authori­
quantity of nickel carbonyl found in disease rave been overstressed. medical authority cited as backing His report, labeled confidential, I've always emphasized that our ties. We couldn't rule out contam­
the tissues of the victims could not otherwise be explained.

for the theory said his conclusions was addressed to members of the findings of increased concentra­ination from stainless steel autopsy
Sunderman comMented that he

were misinterpreted. House Commerce subcommittee on tions of nickel in lung tissues of knives or specimen containers. 
.. 

consumer protection, of which he isRep. John M. Murphy. D-N.Y .. 
chairman. He said the subcommit­made the statement about the tee will conduct hearings nextdi~ea~e in a report sharply critical month.
of the invc~tigation of the outbreak 

Murphy's report said Dr. Wil­that left 2q person~ dead following liam F. Sunderman Jr. of thean American Legion meeting in University of Connecticut advoatesl'hiladel"phia in July. 
a theory that nickel carbonyl could Murph\ ...aid that because early be the ·toxic agent that caused the 
Debate rages on; vitamin C -cure or not? 
WASHINGTON (AP)-Terminal cam·cr patient'> live about four time., longer after receiving large d<>.,l''> of vitamin C. ~av~ Nobel laUJ'l';tll' Dr. Linu., Pauling. Other rewardiL'I''> -.av ht., findings look JH<>nti.,ing eriough to warrant furt hn '>llldv. 
A -.tudv n;nducted in Scotland by l'.lllling ·and Dr. Ewan Cameron .,a,., the mean -.un·ival time of 100 lh·ing cancer patients wa~ more than 210 da\., after thev were declared tllll~l'atahlc by ~onven­1iona! methml!-r. 
Thi.., compared with a mean ... urvival time of 50 da\·s for I .000 terminal patients who \~ere used as ..,tlldv controls becau'>e they did not get ihc vitamin. said ihe report in the Ol'lohcr issue of Proceedings of the National AcademJ of Sciences. 
Pauling. awarded the Nobel Pri1.c in chcmistrv 111 I%4 and the Nobel Peace Prize in 1qo2. has been at odds with much of the medical communit~· for advocating large vitamin C doses to prcvc?t and treat common colds. There sttll is no ovcrwhl'lming consensus on 
Notices 
I' type papers tor you. Call 4565. 
Greyhound Bus to Chica(lo leaves Circle Friday at 4 :45. Call Tom at 8338 tor further into. 
Tickets tor the November 11 Chi­cano Staduim concert with The Ea.gtes, featurin(l Joe W a Ish, and John David Souther are now on sale at the River City Review Ticket Outlets: Just for The Record (100 Center( and Boonie Records (Col­lene Square). · 
Seniors, N.D. lost and found de partment has three class of 1973 H inh School Rinns. Initials are F.i:::..w., J.B. and.thiru is from St. Francis Hi(lh. Describe and claim between 4 8 p.m. Mon. Fri. in 109 Ad. Buildin(l. · 
NO Club sponsors tour to USC . NO (lame plus one week in sunny Hawaii. Game ticket ihcluded. Deaprt Nov. 27 and return Dec. 6. $520 from Chica(lo. Call 1577 tor details. 
Will teach you flute in your spare time. For into, call Beth. 8111. 
Accurate, fast typin(l. Mrs. Donoho 131 0746. Hours: 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. 
Now available at Pandora's Blind Ambition by John Dean on sale now. 
Experienced f!Uitarist to teach be­'lonners call Jamie in Lyons 796?. 
Overeaters Anoymous information Write P.O Box 1165 Holy Cross Hall, S.M.C. 
Will Do Typing: Themes . Manu­scripts. Call 287-5162. 
Pandora's Books. has all used books on sale at one half price off the re'lular price. These new books on sale tor 25 percent off: Blind Ambition, Final Days, All The Presidents Men, Jimmy, I'll Never Lie to You, why Not the Best. 
For Rent 
Rent My Upstairs. 540 per month. Close to Campus. Call 233-1329. 
Lost and Found 
Lost: SMC Gold Class Ring en­C]raved with Mary Esther Hall B.S. '78 Reward Call 4-4514. 
To the blonde who picked up 2 girl 1ilchers Thur. nile before Oct. break 
, front ot Library bar. 1 left my '1.•·-,Y coat with plaid lining in your ',, Please return. Call 6922. 

that issue. 
Dr. Paul Chretien 'of the National Cancer Institute said Thursday there arc serious questions about the methods used to conduct the cancer stud~·. But the results still arc encouraging enough to indicate vitamin C ma~· be useful in conjunc­tion with other therapies in treating cancer. he said. 
"This study should prompt a repeat ~tudy of an identical nature that is controlled bv a statistician." said Chretien, L:hicf of tumor immunolog_v in NCI's surgical branch. , 
"There would be no question about the rc~ults if it had been done by random patient selection as a double-blind test in which neither doctors nor patients knew what medication was being given,", he said. 
In the studv, conducted at Vale of Levc~ Dist~ict General Hospital in Loch Lomondsidc. the research­l'r'> knew all patients getting vitamin C. The 1,000 control cases were drawn from the hospital'~ records over -the last I 0 years. 
Lost or Stolen from the area of 
Napolean Blvd. and Notre Dame 
Ave. An Irish Setter pup):>y. 
Approximately 30 lbs., 4 months 
old. Answers to Shamus. Reward 
for information leading to discovery. 
He is missed. Call Opie, 232-2819. 
Lost: Last seen on cafeteria shelves . Blue nylon pack·containing 5 books. Please call Pete 8337. 
Wanted 

Will pay top dollar tor 2 Alabama GA tix. Call 8401. 
Need 2 or 4 Alabama tickets. Call Claire 6833. 
1 Miami ticket and 1G.A. 'Bama ticket. Call 1060. 
Need Bama tickets will pay big bucks. Call 234-8891. 
3 G.A. tix needed for Alabama game. Call Bob 255-8660. 
Desperately need 2 -4 Alabama tics anywhere in stadium. Witt pay$$. Call Mike or Ann at 272-5884 after 7 p.m. 
Need 1 G.A. Bama ticket. Tony. 
288-5675. 
Need 2 G. A. Alabama tickets. N'eed not be together. Call 289-.1056.. 
Need Alabama tickets. Will pay good price. Call Martha 4819. 
Need 2 or 4 Alabama tickets. Call Pe(lgy 4 4381 
Addressers wanted Immediately. Work at home .. no experience necessary excellent pay. Write American Service Suite 132, Minn., MN 55426. 
Urgent!!! Need 2 Alabama GA's together!! manic Bama-hater will pay absolute top$$$. Call Dave 8518. 
Alabama tix (2,3, or 5) Will pay $25. Charlie 287-4931. (no answer, 1295 ). 
Need 2 Bama fix for parents who never have been to an NO game. Mary 8125. 
Trick or Treat. Either way for 4 BAMA tickets. Call Stan at 289­4740. 
Attention Northern New Jersey. Anyone have riders coming out for the Alabama game from NYC area who could take someone else, please contact Pete. 1056. 
Proxmire: Bid rigging has cost millions in taxes 
WASHINGTON (AP) Army investigators have uncovered evi­dence of irregularities involving South Korean contractors and some 
U.S. government personnel in the rigging of price bids on American military purchases, a Defense De­partment spokesman said yestcr­dav. 
His statement followed by a day allegations by Sen. William Prox­mire, D-Wis., that bid-rigging by Korean contractors has cost the American taxpayers up to $25 million a year. 
Proxmire contended that the Army has known about "strong· arm-tactics and collusive bidding tactics by Korean contractors since at least 1909 and perhaps earlier. · 
The Pentagon spokesman denied that the Defense Department and the Army had condoned price­rigging. collusion or any other improprieties. 
He said the U.S. defense estab­lishment has "been working on the matter since 1909" and some steps have been taken to correct the situation. 
However, the spokesman said, "we are using U.S. procurement procedures and practices in a foreign environment,'· implying that these practices may not be irregular in the eyes of the Kor­eans. 
The spokesman declined to dis-

Classified Ads 
Need 2 GA. Bama tixs. desperately. Call 1785. 
Need 1 to 3 Student tickets for Alabama or Miami. Frank 8705. 
Desperately need one ticket to Alabama. Call Bill 8764. 
Need 4 G.A. tickets for Alabama Football name. Have unlimited funds. Call Bob 1461. 
Need student or GA Bama tickets. 
Call 1487. 
Need 2 Alabama tickets. Call Martha at 1715 or 2116. 
Need 5 Bama tickets!! Please have pity!!Call Lisa 1343. 
Notre Dame 35, Alabama o Tom Clements, Wayne Bullock and Greg Collins need· many Alabama GA tix. Call 3300 or 3315. 
Please!!! I desperately need one Alabama Hx. Call Dave 1010. 
Heeellpppp!!Our' friends will hang us by our toes and tickle us to death if we do not r~et Miami and Alabama tickets. w·e don't need a good laugh. Call Terri or Diane at 7853. 
Foxy SMC·Chick needs 2 Chicago tix for herself and foxy friend from out of town. Decent padded or center bleacher call Mar 4397. 
For Sale 
·2 Navy tickets. Call 1060. 
6 Navy tix. A good buy. Call 1756, Chris or Mike 
Aloe cosmetics . A wide variety of products. 4565. 
Chevy Rally Wheels, used 1 season 
... 
by conservative accounting major. • Terry 288-2825. 
Boqk Shop. Used books. Students paradise. Open Wed. Sat., Sun. 9-7. Ralph Casperson Books. 1303 Buchanon Road. Niles, Mich. 683-2888. 
Mexican Belts: finest leather belts available only $10.00. Call "Big Money Murf" anytime at 234-8858. 
1 pr. B. t. 6 Formu Ia 6 speakers, 2 mos. old. asking $500. Call Bob 1382. 
Need Alabama tickets somethin' fierce. Call Martha at 4819. 

cuss specifics of the irregularities or individuals who may be in­volved, except to say that they were "primarily on the part of Korean contractors but there arc some instances of possible violations of 
U.S. government personnel. in­cluding both military and civilian" being involvec'. 
He indicated that ,investigating agencies are still gathering infor­mation ·on what other defense officials. indicated might be bribery and similar charges against a small number of U.S. personnel. 
Kastle Ski's. compound racing 175 em. Never used or drilled. 7160. 
For Sale: 2 married student tickets for Alabama and Miami games. Call 277-0353. 
Personals 
Students! Become more Aware ot your values and how they influence important life decisions. A life planning, vlaues-ctarification work­shop starts Saturday, October 30 at 9am in the Counseling Center. To inquire or Register, Call 1717. 
Job Hunters! Here is-a chance to enhance your communication skills for interviewing. A job interview skills workshop starts 7 p.m. Nov. J in Room 400 Administration Build­ing. To inquire or register, Call 
1717. 
The Dew Drop Inn is closed temp­orarily. Will re-open Monday in a new location. 
It's Mary Lynn Piha's birthday Sunday so call 6959 and wish her Happy Birthday. 
Yo there VRT '74, '75, '76, and '77. Can't believe you're a senior again. Another year of cokes, crazy nights and running around. Keep the van clean and your hair frizzed. Click. who else?????? 
Happy Birthday Maw!!! Love your (lirls, Mary My Helen Susi Jo Kansas Kay lzzy Mae Marilyn Joan Thersa Be Bethie Cookie Lou Little Pu. 
Murph . Here's a personal for you, no monkey business involved. 'hope you're happy!! · Love Annie, Jenni, Barb and Anita. 
Happy Halloween to Janet, Amy and Annet. Watch out for goblins and dropped courses that may be haunting. Tell them to go get planted! Gheulishly, Bev. 
David Schlaefer smells real sweet. Check it out!!! 
Super Lover-That big ding dong day is getting closer every day. We can make it for sure ... The Cleveland Bus Driver. 

THE ·QUICKIE IS RUNNING THIS WEEKEN-D 
"We didn't have any conclusive evidence that nickel poisoning was invobed in the causation of the disease. 
"I think this article quotes my comments entirely out of context and changes the emphasis and meaning of my discussions." 
He said he was questioned by Murphy and his staff Aug. 31 in Washington, at Murphy's request. 
A spokesman for the federal Center for Disease Control in Atlanta also disputed Murphy's statements. 
"The CDC considered from the outset that it could he toxic," spokesman Don Berreth said. He said the CDC agreed with Sunder­man's findings that there was no definite proof that nickel poisoning caused the deaths. 
The Student Plavers & ND Social Commission presents: 
Jacques Brei Is Alive And Well And Living In Paris by Blau and Shuman, Mu~ic By Jacque Brei 
At LaFortune Rathskellar, The Nazz Oct. 29, Nov. 5 & 6 admission: $1.00 
time: 8:30pm 
--~-~ 
~ 
"'"'"'Heilo you'"'aii!!!S.M., P.F.2, ~
'"'" K.H\\ 
and J. B. 
The B.C. Kid. 
Danny, Thanks for the ride back to school. You were great company. But I'm still mad about the money. I'll find a way to make it up to you .... S.M. 
Bowie, , No matter what anybody says about your new hair style, 1 still think you are the foxiest girl on campus. TheGranite State farmboy. 
Hey Everybody! Did you know that Mark Chain and Dick Howe of Morrissey are on diets!!! (boy are they ever fat!) ­
Girls, enroll in Buzz's School of New Dance. Learn his latest techniques. ·For information call 288-5858. 
Rose, just thought you might like your own personal to wish you a Happy Friday. A Friend. 
All you stick exotic things out there, beware!!!l shall start my serious hunting on Nov. 1. 
Spaceman. 
Sorry Folks . I was in bed!! 
Nerd and Terd, I'm not as mad as you think, but that personal wasn't from me!! Love, I'm not "one of the guys." 
Many thanks to Morgan's Cyclery (Bruce and Darlene) who went to a great deal of troupb to. help me get warranted replacement parts for a bicycle for which there is no local dealership .. i highly recommend them for any bicycle servicing. 
Happy Birthday Julie you D. F. 
Your roomey and friends. 
. You guys, Good luck at Kent Cross-Country on Saturday. 
Dear Midge, Sorry we're late, but we can still dig where you're coming from. Happy late Birthday!!! Madne, She-She, Mom, Cathone, and Snoops. 
Are you International? All I. S.O. members come to Get-Together and Boogie!! Sword-Conrad H ilion. 825 Notre Dame Ave......Saturday..7pm 
To the girl on the Balance-Beam. You're beautiful. How can I meet you? RSVP· Paul. 
E. Justin Barry is worth more money now than any AL student will see in his lifetime. 
~ 
the observer 15

Friday, October 29, 1976 
by Chip Scanlon Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame hockey team 

swings into action this week as they 
host the undefeated Michigan State 
Spartans. 
The Irish begin the season as one of the top contenders for the WCHA crown but several key injuries to the Irish blueline corp have made thi~ challenge more difficult. Head coach Lefty Smith has made several changes to offset these losses and no doubt Michigan State will be ready to test these 
defensive changes after scoring 16 goals against Ohio State last weekend. 
Michigan State returns 17 letter-' men with six defensemen and junior goalie Dave Versical high­lighting these returnees. "Mich­igan State lost a large portion of its offense to graduation,'' says Smith. "The loss of Tom Ross 
.. ... .. ....

Tony Pace 
~=:=:::=:=:::=:::::::::=:::=:::=:=::-:::======::==========::==-=::=:=:=:=:l:============·=·~·=·:·=·=-:::.>:·=·=·=·: 
The Carpetbaggers 
.-;;;:.·;·;·;·;·;·;·;·...·;:;·;o;o;·.·;:·:·:;:·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=-:·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·:;:;:;:·:·:·;->·=·=·=·=·=:=:s:::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:::. Dr. J
·-·'-"f"i;";~-~·-;;e·~·r·~··;igci." Jtiii"ti;;Erv-ing. signe-d.a· iiicrative, sever-year ~on_tra..::t with the New York Nets of the then American Basketball Assoc1atwn. With the consummation of the NBA-ABA merger, the Nets began to prepare for their first season in the NBA. With Erving as a top drawing card, the Nets should have become one ofthe biggest moneymakers in tl•e sport. . . 
But something happened on the way to the bank, as Ervmg IS now 
toiling for the Philadelphia 76ers. · 
What happened? Well, Erving discovered that he was no longer t, e 
highest paid player in the league in which_ he was competing. ~ven wo_ s . 
once the Nets obtained Nate"Tiny" Archibald from Kansas City, Ervmg 
was no longer the hnighest paid player on his team. He then demanded 
that his contract by renegotiated. Nets' owner Roy Boe adamantly 
refused, saying, rightfully. that a contract was binding for b~th sid~s. If 
Erving had been injured, Boe still would h~ve had t? fulfill h1s portiOn of 
the agreement. A seeming standoff? No, m total disregard for the fans 
who had supported the Nets during their difficult ~ear~. Boe took offers 
from other teams for the services of Dr. J. After hsten111g to offers from 
many different teams, Boe sold Erving to the Sixers for !3.S million. No 
players were involved. just cash. _ 
Why document this story? It's disturbing for several reasons. First 
there is the element of greed. · 
Erving's conract with the Nets called for a base salary of $23S,OOO per 
year and, through certain incentive clauses. he can earn up to $300.000. 
While others may earn more, this is most certainly a comfortable sal<> :y 
and he did sign the contract when he was of sound mind. Erving. howev~r 
is not the only party guilty of greed in this tra~sacti?n. In tht:~r 
advertisements. the Nets proclaimed "See Dr. J and T111y A 111 the NBA. 
(who holds a scoring record ot t1ve 
goals in one game versus the Irish), 
Steve Colp, Daryl Rice, Steve 
Moroney and John Sturgess 
accounts for a sizable graduation 
loss but a· 16-goal performance 
against Ohio State seems to indi­
cate that they've filled these holes 
effectively," Smith observed. 
One line that the Irish will have 
to be wary of it MSU's freshman 
line of Jim Cunningham, Russ 
Welch and Paul Klasinski. This 
trio scored six goals against Ohio 
State along with 10 assists, quite a 
productive outing for their maiden voyage. A sleeper for the Spartans may be Mark DeCenz0 who after scar­ing only two goals in 23 games last season started this year off with a hat trick in his first game. But even 
with these new faces Coach Amo Bessone has his hands full trying to offset the losses he suffered up 
front. 
Because of this ad. many fans were induced to buy season tickets, but t~e Nets never delivered Dr. J. General 
LoUis 4-~-~-~-·-~............
New York State Attorney 
Leftowitz is now investigating charges of false advertising on the part of the Nets. All of this detracts from the sports. Secondly, all parties involved ignore the fans' interests in this ~ituation. The Nets are the reigning ABA champs and most people would hke to s~·e how they stack up against NBA competition. The team that now ~lays 111 the Nassau coliseum is a ghost of the team that won the final ABA title last season. Also, ERving, who was the symbol of the ABA. is now on a team that has always been in the NBA. This dampens much of the rivalry that would have been present had the team's rosters remained intac~. The final reason for the consternation is the fact that Boe chose the S1xers over all the other bidders. Why a team in his own division, one that will be competing for the same playoff spot as the Nets? The only reason that ~n can think of, assuming that there were comparable from other teams, Is that he wanted to rub this in the face of the New York Knicks, to whom Boe must pay $3 million over the next three years. This payment is for moving into the Knicks' territory. , . Where does all of this leave us? Well, unless Larry 0 Bnen, the commissioner of the NBA interferes a Ia Bowie Kuhn, nothing will happen. There will only be posters and fan indignation to halt the carpetbagging practices of professional basketball. 

TO CHICAGO STADIUM FOR 
EAGLES CONCERT 
THURSDAY, NOV. 11 lntrested? Call 283 -7757 
••• ' • Jl ..... ,I "' Jo " •• " .. ' ,. J j ' ( • , ' ' ' •
.#. # 

One of the ways Bessone is· trying to adjust is by playing a physical style of defense and with seven blueliners stocking his bench, Bessone's strategy ·just might pay off. 
Leading the Spartan blueline corp is Pat Betterly, a man Bessone calls ''the finest defenseman in the WCHA." Along with Betterly are Jeff Barr, Dough Counter, Ron Heaslip and Tim McDonald who 
return to maKe tor one of the most physical Spartan defenses in years. . Add to these five Ted Huesing and Jeff Brubaker, two freshmen who constitute the starting defense for MSU and you have a formidable 
blueline corp. 
Backing up the defense is State's 

talented junior goalie Dave 
Versical. Versical posted a 
4.3-goals against last season and 
proved to be one of the most 
consistent netminders in the 
WCHA. 
The key for the Irish is their own 

defensive play. 
With All-American Jack 

Brownschidle leading the effort 
and such defensive stalwarts as 
Paul Clarke, Don Jackson and 
Roger Bourque ready for duty this 
goal is well within reach. Also on 
the blueline will be converted 
center Brian Walsh who will 
probably be filling in on defense 
until Christmas. 
Earlier in the week it was 

doubtful that Bourque and Jackson 
would be available but Bourque has 
recovered enough from the charlie­
horse that was bothering him and 
Jackson has found a way to fit a 
cast inside his glove so that he can 
shoot and stickhandle. They will 
form the third defense for the Irish 
and will receive spot duty in both 
g<Jmes. 
'1 the nets for the Irish will be 

eiu1er Len Moher or John Peterson. 
Both provide the Irish with 

considerable talent and havt 
proved to be twb of the WCHA's 
finest. 
Up front the Irish will be 

exceptionally strong. Clark 
Hamilton will lead his two fresh­
men linemates Greg Meredith and 
Ted Weltzin into their initial action 
• 
-


Notre Dame will be relying on Kevin Nugent to carry much of the offensive burden this season. in the WCHA. Backing up ... : 
Burke. Bob Baumgartner and Ra:-. Jol"l1son round out the offense.

front line will once again be Don F ceoff time for the Frida!· ancFairholm between Kevin Nugent Sat rday night contests is 7:3(and Terry Fairholm. The third unit p.n Tickets arc still available but will be AI Karsnia. Steve Schneidet a I· ·e turnopt is expected.
and Tom Michalek while Brian 
Yankee's Martin named 
1964.

NEW YORK AP -In the only Martin had 1641/1 votes to Her­managers' poll in which he could zog's ISS. Gene Mauch of Minne­vote. Billy Martin cast his ballot for sota had 20 and chuck Tanner ofWhitey Herzog as manager of the Oakland received lS 1/1. Earlier.
vear. 
Danny Ozark 9f Philadelphia wasDid Martin really think Herzog named the AP's National leaguevas the best manager in the Mamager of the Year.

merican League in 1976? "No, aut you can't vote for 
"Whitey's a good friend of yourself," Martin said. 

mine," said Martin, whose ciub · A nationwide panel of sports­won a trip to the World Series bywriters and broadcasters, agreed beating Kansas City in the AL with Martin's opinion, not his playoffs. "But I did the b~st_job,"

ballot. They named him The Associated Press' AL Manager of ''I'm a one-year manager only if the Year for guiding the New York the front office interferes with my 
Yankees to their first pennant since running the ballclub." Martin said. 
PH' SICS coURSES 
for Non-Science Majors 
The three courses described below will be offered by the Department of Physics in the spring 1977 semester. They are particularly well suited for non-science majors--though not restricted to them. 
Physics 204: Nuclear Energy: Its Physics and its Social Challenge -3 credits 
Basic ideas of modern nuclear science; nuclear radiations and hazards; weapons technology and control; power from nuclear, fossil-fuel, solar and gas thermal sources compared. No prerequisites. Instructor: ·Professor V. Paul Kenny (Extension 7451.) 
Physics 21 0: Descriptive Astronomy -3 credits 
A descriptfon of the motions, distribution, and structure of the planets, sun, star system and galaxies. Some observational work is included. A one-year introductory science course including at least one semestet of physical science as aprerequisite. Instructors: Professor James L. Shilts (Extension 7732) Professor Walter R. Johnson (Extension 7463) 
Physics 206: Concepts of Relativity -3 credits 
A discussion of Einstein's Sepcial and General Theories of Relativity. Concepts discussed include time dilation, causality, mass-energy equival­ence, curved space, black-holes, and cosmology. a one-year introductory physical science course is a prerequisite. Instructors: Professor Sperry e. Darden (Extension 7262) Professor William D. McGlinn (Extension 7095) 
..

Further information, as well as course syllabi, can be obtained either by contacting the instructors at the extensions listed above or by stopping in at the Depatment of Physics Office in Room 225 of Nieuwland Science Hall 
(extension 6386.) 

Irish look to romp over Midshipmen 
by Fred Herbst Sports Editor 

The question that concerns most Notre Dame fans about tomorrow's encounter with the Midshipmen of Navy is not what the outcome will h~·. it's whether or not the Irish will allow a touchdown --their first in 20 consecutive quarters. 
,Coach George Welsh's Navy ~quad,has been suffering through a dismal campaign. managing just one win in seven outings. Tomorrow· s battle in Cleveland i~n't expected to help th~ Navy record. 
"Navy hasn't enjoyed much ~Ut'Ce~~ bccau~e of its youth and llll'xperience, but that's precisely "IH '-' e'II approach this game as if t ht:\ \H'rc the number one team in tht· L'ountrv." Irish mentor Dan IlL'\ 1ne said. "With what is happL·ning in college football we '' Puld be in a perfect situation to
-<.!L't ,·aught napping if we didn't ""rk a~ hard as possible m preparation for this game. I'll makl' c'l'rtain that our players don't n·lax ment,dl,v or physically this 
week ... B~· allowing ju'>t two field goals in la~t Saturda~ ·., hard-fought win over the Gamecocks of South Carolina. Notre Dame has not pnmitted a touchdown to be scored against them in 20 consecutive quarter'>. That mark ties the school record set bv the undefeated 1946 National Ch~mpionship team. SiQcc their opening game loss to Pittsburgh. the Irish defense has allowed just four field goals, two to Michigan State from 49 and 29 yard~ awav and two to South Carolina fro~1 49 and 35 yards out in the last five contests.. During the same period of time. Notre Dame's offense has out­scored opponents 149-12. This, despite a series of injuries that have reduced the Irish to their third fullback in the last five games. 
With Jerome Heavens sidelined·for 
the remainder of the season and 
Terry Eurick still nursing a hip 
pointer, the Irish will be going with 
Willard Browner at fullback this 
weekend. 
While fullback is a question mark 
for the Notre Dame offense, half­
back isn't. AI Hunter, who had his 
finest day ever for the Irish last 
Saturday as he gained 181 yards on 
32 carries, will again man the 
position. Hunter's total against 
South Carolina was just five yards 
shy of the Notre Dame record held 
by Emil "Six-yard" Sitko. Hunter 
needs to average 87 yards a contest 
for the remaining five games to 
become the University's first 1,000­
yard runner. 
Navy is led by running backs 
Leon Miller (191 yards rushing), 
Joe Gattusa (179 yards rushing). 
and Larry Klawinski (175 yards 
rushin,g). John Kurowski and Bob 
Leszczynski share. the quarter­
backing duties. Kurowski has 
connected on 38.9 percent of his 
passes while Leszczynski has a 
completion rate of 42 percent. 
Wide receiver Ste~e Scott and 
Gattuso share the team lead in 
receptions, with ten apiece. · 
Middle guard Jeff Sapp leads the Middie defense. Sapp has 109 tackles for the season and has been in double figures in the category in every game, including 19 against Pittsburgh. Bob DeStafney is the team· s second leading tackler with 61, but was injured last week and his availability is questionable. 
A~ statistical comparison of the two teams shows what a mismatch the encounter shapes up to be. The Irish are averaging 389.2 yards a game total offense (237.2 yards rushing and 152 yards passing), while the Midshipmen are aver­aging only 221.5 yards a game total offense (149. 7 yards rushing and 
71.8 yards passing). The Notre Dame defense has allowed just an average of 230 yards a game total offense (105 yards rushing and 125 tiye meeting between the two yards passing), while the Navy schools. Notre Dame holds a 39-9-1 defense has given up an average of edge in the series. Navy's last win 

343.4 yards a contest total offense in the series came in 1963 as Roger (223 yards rushing and 121.4 yards Staubach led the Midshipmen to a passing). 35-14 triumph. 
Tomorrow's battle continues the The game will not be the first longest intersectional rivalry in the Navy-Notre Dame tilt played in nation, it being the 50th consecu­C1eveland's Municipal Stadium. 

Tt e teams met there nine times in a ::!0-year span from 1932 to 1952. The Irish hold a 7-1-1 edge in Cleveland. 
hickoff is set for 1 p.m. The game will be broadcast on the Mutual Radio Network by Don Criqui and Pat Sheridan and on WNDU-AM by Ted Robinson and Paul Hess. 

NFL kicking seems on decline 
Fred Herbst ====================================================================================re===============================================================================================::=:====================================================================== 
Football Predictions 
• 
The Irish Eye 

By Bruce wwitt explanation as well as the problem AP Sports Writer There has been a plethora of blocked or missed placeki.cks, both The kicking this year in the extra points and field goals, thus National Football League seems to far this season. The reason seems be lower ... and that might be the to be twofold -increasing profi-
After last week's upsets of Nebraskaand Oklahoma, one has to begin \Hllldcring if anyone is going to survive the college football season with an undefeated slate. A quick look reveals that there are only seven undefeated teams in the nation: Michigan, Pittsburgh, Texas Tech. Maryland. UCLA. Rutgers. and Colgate. (Please take note that four of the .,even arc from the supposed!\ weak eastern portion of the country.) 
But even with teams dropping all around them. Notre Dame is finding it difficult to make a major mmL· in the polls. Ranked 12th last week, the lri~h could on!~· move up one notch in this week's polls despite a win over an cxtrcmch· rugged South Carolina team. 
What Notre Dame needs is a week like the one that opened the college ~ca~nn. where there is a rash of major upsets without falling victim thcmsclvc~. 
So with that in mind and with the help of football marvel "Bullet Bob" Steinmetz. here are the Irish Eye's picks for this weekend: Alabama at Mississippi State: The Tide should be in for a battle with State. but that'~ about all. It'll be interesting. but the result will be the ~amc as alwa~s a'> Bear tunes up for his clash with Notre Dame in two "t•cb. Bam a b1· I0. Steinmetz: Barna by 9. ­Florida at Auburn: After Georgia beat Alabama. most fans assumed that 1he Bulldogs were the team to beat in the Southeastern Conference. But a look at the standings shows that Georgia is currently only third while Florida and Auburn are tied for the conference lead. Auburn's a fluke, hut Florida ma~· be the most talented team in the south. Look for the (;ators to win by 7. Steinmcl!.: Florida by 8. California at Southern Cal: It was California that started the Trojans on 1heir losing streak last season with a 28-14 upset win. The Bears have hccn somewhat of a disappointment this season while usc has bounced hack from an opening game loss to destroy five opponents in a row. Joe R<lth is tough. but Ricky Bell has a better supporting cast. USC by 10. 'ltcinmel!: USC by 14. 
Oklahoma at Colorado: After being upset last week the Sooners should be ready to kill. but they won't. The Buffaloes are just too tough for the Okies to roll over. The two clubs are tied for the Big Eight lead with Nebraska, Missouri and Oklahoma State, so this. is a key battle for both teams. Look for Oklahoma to choke under the rumors of a~other investigation (this one for illegal ticket sales by players). Buffs by 3. Steinmetz: Sooners by 14. Nebraska at Kansas: Nolan Cromwell was injured last week, and that real!:.: hurts the Jayhawk cause. If Cromwell could play, this would be an upset possibility. But ·since he can't, the Huskers should be able to sneak bv. Nebraska bv 4. Steinmetz: Huskers by 14. 
.. 
C:olumbia at Da~tmouth: Columbia's 2-4 on the year while the Big Green arc 4-2. besides having All-American candidate Greg Robinson. Robinson and the rest of the Dartmouth defense should make it a long day for Columbia. Dartmouth by 10. Steinmetz: Columbia by 1. 
Gettysburg at Lehigh: The Engineers get a break after a rugged five '' ceks against Division I competition. Lehigh boasts a fine 5-~ mark and arc still prime contenders for the Division II crown. Look for "Big John" Matt and his mates to romp. Engineers by 21. Steinmetz: Gettysburg by 
2. Just because Val Zurblis has a good friend there. Miami [0.] at Toledo: The Redskins finally got their first win of the season .last w~ek ~nd look to ,be ready to take off. The Irish Eye has yet to go .agamst Mtamt, so there s no reason to start now. . Redskins by 7. 
Stemmetz: Miami by 7 . 
Minnesota at Michigan: The Gophers have Tony Dungy, but that's about all. Michigan is far and away the best team in the nation right now. Wolves by 24. Steinmetz: Michigan by 28. Mississippi at LSU: This one will be a bloodbath. When these two teams get together the object isn't to win, it's to come out alive. LSU's record is unimpressive, but their still tough--especially on Saturday night in Baton Rouge. Tigers by 3. Steinmetz: Ole Miss by 3. Missouri at Oklahoma State: The Tigers are probably the most inconsistent team in college football, but have still managed a share of the Big Eight lead--as have the Cowboys. For some reason tomorrow should be a mean day for the Big Eight powers. Cowboys by 1. Steinmetz: Tigers by 3. Northwestern at Iowa: For those of you who though Chip Spina was too rough on Northwestern, just take note that the "Wildkittens" now have the longest losing streak in college football. Iowa shouldn't be any threat to their "su~cess." Iowa by 13. Steinmetz: Iowa by 8 in Futility Bowl. Texas at Texas Tech: The Red Raiders are undefeated, but haven't really played anybody. Texas is a proven team that should have beaten Oklahoma. Longhorns by 7. Steinmetz: Tech by 5. Notre Dame vs. Navy: This is a "home" game for Navy being played in Cleveland, but the only home field advantage that could possibly help them is if the contest were played on the high seas. The Irish haven't allowed a touchdown in 20 quarters and are looking better every week. This week they should get their chance to move up in the polls. Notre Dame expert Val Zurblis has made the Irish 41-point favorites --why, we'll never know, since she refuses to release her system of establishing point spreads for fear of putting Jimmy "The Greek" out of business. Who can argue with professionalism at its best? Irish by a whopping 41. Steinmetz: NO by 46. 
Upset of the Week 
Sytacuse at Pittsburgh: Is it trick or treat? Syracuse has been playing fine football over the past month, winning three of their last four. Pitt has been rolling along, but a questionable quarterbacking situation is due to catch up with them. Look for the Orange to pull off the season's most stunning upset by shutting down Tony Dorsett. Orange is the traditional Halloween color, but on Halloween night the Panthers will be sorry that they had ever seen it. Syracuse to shock the nation by a Dave Jacobs' field goal. Steinmetz: Pitt by 30. The Panthers won't lose a game until they play Penn State. 
Last week: IO:S, 67 percent; Guest Picker Morey Blinder: 10-5, 67 percent. 
ciency on the part of the blockers 
and decreasing proficiency by the 
so called "sidewinders," the soc­
cer-style kickers. 
The increase in blocks, Denver 
Coach John Ralston believes, is 
due "almost entirely to teams 
spending more time on that part of 
the game.'' 
And the Broncos' kicker, Jim 
Turner, who approaches the ball in 
the more traditional head-on style 
rather than from the soccer-kicking 
angle, says, "Absolutely the trend 
is to the conventional football 
kicker as we have known him in the 
past." 
The problem with the soccer­
styld kicker says Turner, is a lack of 
trajectory. The ball just doesn't get 
that high that fast as when a 
straight-ahead kicker kicks it. 
His view is confirmed by some­
one who views the ball from the 
opposite side, namely Pittsburgh 
defensive end L.C. Greenwood, 
one of the more proficient kick­
blockers around. 
"If you want to say one type of 
kicker is easier to block, it would be 
the soccer-style kicker because of 
the way he kicks," says the 
6-foot-61/2 Greenwood. "The con­
ventional-style kicker gets the ball 
up much higher much qiuicker." 
But Pittsburgh's expert in that 
department, sidewinding place­
kicker Roy Gerela, disagress. "I 
believe we get our ball up in the air 
just as quickly as anybody else," 
he insists.· "I don't think there is 
any reason to change or get excited 
about it because, if they block your 
kick, it's not your fault." 
Then whose fault is it? 
"The line," Gerela says of the 
men who block in front of him. 
"They just have to cut down the 
penetration, that's all." 
That penetration, Steelers speci­
al teams coach Paul Uram says, is 
the result of hard work. 
WNDU to~ air Notre Dame tilt 
WNDU-AM will broadcast tomorrow's Irish-Navy game back to the Notre Dame campus. Ted Robinson and Paul Hess will handle the play-by-play, and Observer sports editor Fred Herbst will be the halftime guest. Air time is 1 p.m. local time. 









