----~-~ 
~-
Sondej to end food collections; called 'most effective teacher' 
by Peter Arndt Notre Dame graduates. He lived based in New York City committed ! Staff Reporter modestly off-campus, simply work­to grass roots lobbying for the ing in the dining halls and doing hungry. Steve Coats, assistant to The most effective teacher on odd jobs. the director of the organization, campus, according to Fr. Robert His influence has not been said Sondej is a "phenomenal Griffin, C.S.C., is not one with a confined solely to the students of person." Coats continued, "For 
Ph.D. or any other degree. He's Notre Dame. According to Ed one person to collect so much in not a paid member of the faculty Wilson, Director of the Food Action two years by himself is a phenom­t staff, and yet he's taught so many. Center at the National Student enal thing in itself. Al's work has He has taught the difference a life Association in Washington, D.C., been what I think was a successful 
can make. "He's showed that the U.S. educa­attempt to bring together people to We've all seen him. He used to tional system, which is the richest work for hunger."
1
stand outside the North Dining Hall and biggest in the world, can give Fr. William Toohey, director of at lunch and at the South Dining so much without knowing it. It Campus Ministry. when asked Hall during dinner, every day, rain takes a lot of guts to do what AI about Sondej's departure. said: 
or shine. The word "used" is Sondej is doing." ''At first, you feel an immediate employed because after today, AI Of the 1,000 college campuses in impulse to say. 'Thank God. he's Sondej will leave his money collect­the nation with food coalitions, going; now we won't be bothered ing posts where in the past two Wilson said that Notre Dame has any more by having to give money
.. 
years he has collected over $25,000 one of the first and one of the best. every time we enter the dining 
•, for the hungry of the world, to go to and "AI Sondej is the embodiment hall.' But then you realize how 
I 
·~ Worldwatch, an organization which of that coalition. He's acted as the false this reaction would be; and works on feeding the hungry on a moral conscience of all the hunger you acknowledge how important it global scale. coalitions.'' has been to have him standing
~-Sondej graduated from Notre Sondej is also known at "Bread . (continued on page 2)Dame two years ago and stayed for the World," an organization
·-­
close to the University to work with AI Sondej, the now familiar figure in front of ND dining halls, will b~ 
the hunger coalition. He did not go collecting lor the last time today. During the past two years, Sonde) 
on to the good life after leaving has collected over $25,000 to aide the hungry. Notre Dame as is typical of most (Photo by Chris Smith) 

unrversrty of noire dome sl mary "s college 
Vol. X, No. 114 
Tuesday, April 6, 1976 

Stan Lee delights student crowd with insights into comic books 
~ hti(ll'l:$itu of ~11ft1' Ilam1' 
~Lllrr Jilmnr, ~ln11imut 1Li556 

Cllffirt of tfr• :j!Jreeibrnl <Cnbf• l'obbuu ",Dnfnc" 
April 2, 1976 
Mr. Thomas O'Neil The Observer Notre Dame. Indiana 
Dear Tom: 
I would like to join my voice to so many others who are saying a word of gratitude to AI Sondej. It's no small thing for someone to give up two years of his life to be a constant reminder of world hunger, a symbol of concern about it, and a means of doing something to bring food to the hungry. For having been and done all of that, I think all of us at Notre Dame and our alumni as well owe AI a sincere word of thanks. I like to believe that what is past is prelude and what we have seen ol AI thus lar is only a prelude to a long life of fruitful service to the forgotten, the suffering, and those in need. May we all join him in this concern and, as much as we can, In this kind of service, too. 
Ever devotedly in Notre '">ame, 

cAL)cl~ #,~ 7!_ -­
-. 
(Rev.) Theodore M. Hesburgh' .:.S.C. President 

The above letter from Fr. Hesburgh was sent to Observer editor Tom O'Neil for possible publication in thisby Pat Cuneo issue in light of Sondej's last day of collection.
Senior Staff Reporter 
Stan Lee can be best described 
Howard Hughes expires, 
a' MAHVELous. 
The famous neator. writer and arti't of several well-known super­h~·roe' such as Spi<krman, Fantas· 

leaves $2 billion empire 
lie hmr. Thor, Captain America and Sergeant Fury entertained a ddightcd crowd of 200 students al 
HOUSTON, Tex. (AP) -Howard Hughes gained financial success as Washington llall last night. Hughes, the pnantom financier a manufacturer of aircraft and oil 
".Ju,t what arc comics'!" began who ruled a business empire drilling tools. a major stockholder the current publisher of Marvel valued at more than $2 billion from in an airline. owner of a brewery comics. "Well. they're the oldest a series of secret hideaways, died and a movie producer. · form of communication since the en route to a hospital here for His contribution to the advance· time when cave men used to hit treatment Monday. ment of aviation. such as new each other over the head with Hughes, 70, was being flown designs and speed ranked him rol'ks,' · Lee answered his own from Acapulco, Mexico, where he with the outstanding air pioneers. l]lll'Stion. had lived since early February. He left Nevada Thanksgiving 
Lee went on to offer several "Today at 1:27 p.m. en route Eve 1970 after four years of aspects ot the comic book business from Acapulco to Houston by air, residence in a guarded Las Vegas in addition to relating the insight of Mr. Howard Hughes expired," hotel room for a similarly guarded several of his superhuman crea­Methodist Hospital Vice President t suite in the Bahamas, leaving tions. Ed McLellan said. 
behind orders to fire the boss of his The youthful looking Lee broke McLellan said Hughes was being gaming operations. into the comic business in 1939 at rushed to the hospital for treatment An ensuing court fight in which the tender age of IS. However, the when he died. The hospital his will prevailed and the firing big break in his career came in I 960 spokesman said he had no further was upheld provided a rare public when he revolutionized the stag­information to release. glimpse of his life. Aides testified gering comic magazine world by Stan lee touched on the creation of Spiderman along with Hughes built a family oil-drilling that Hughes lived in almost total introducing a new type of super several other of his comic strip characters during his speech bit business into a diversified seclusion, seen when necessary by hero. last night. lee entertained an audience of 200 in Washington complex that over the years includ­only five persons--young.dedicated Putting all outside interests hall. ed manufacturing of planes, heli­Mormons. aside. Lee explains. "We needed copters, spacecraft and electronics They relayed his orders to
ship to Reed wasn't of the Batman­strength of 100 men, can jump over something more than the static Robin type fame because Lee devices. others. Even loftiest executives of
buildings, and if he doesn't" feel 
hero and villain. The result was He produced movies and owned
insisted, "at the very least, people like jumping over the building he some of his major firms had never heroes with superhuman powers studios, owned airlines and became seen him. The one-time boss of his
would begin to talk." Lee main­can just pick it up,'' emphasized
yet set in the real world." tained that it was necessary to Lee. He added, "Bruce Banner a major economic force in Nevada Nevada operations said he had The Fantastic Four had been make his teenage creation a "real may not be the most well-adjusted with purchase of hotels, casinos, never met him. horn out of Lee's brainstorm, yet it land and mines valued at $300
teenager," and so he made him the individual, but fans liked his Hughes was married secretly in remained unresolved as to how he million.
pesky-brat type. 1957 to actress Jean Peters and she
style."
could make them super but still The last but most loved of the He began building his financial announced in 1970 that she was
Lee insists that Marvel does not 
"human." empire in 1923 when he inherited
characters, "The Thing," entered operate in the same way its seeking a divorce. Theyhad no Reed Richards, the leader of the the scene. Lee believes that three-fifths interest in the Hughes children. In 1971 she announced
competitors do. "In the beginning,
Four. was therefore given at everybody deep down loves a Tool Co., founded by his father and that she had remarried, having
I was writing all of the stories (forintelligent, stuffy. boring air abou monster. "He's a combination of valued then at $500,000. obtained the divorce.
all the different new characters)
him. However. he came full• Two years later, when he was 21. During the 1930's and 1940's
Jimmy Durante, W.C. Fields and and soon it just became too big a 
equipped with a beautiful giri Humphrey Bogart--out of phase chore. So I would give the artists a Hughes gained sole control. He Hughes was much in the headlines fri~·nd. a Ia l.ois Lane, but unlike used the Houston-based tool com­
with the times and possessing a lot brief idea of the plot and then after as a record-setting speed pilot in Superman, he loved her and the of problems--nevertheless, he's the they had drawn the episode I would pany as a nucleus and began the planes he built and designed or two were engaged. The third of the most popular of the Four," Lee job of building a $2-billion empire helped design. He squired some of
write the script," Lee stated. Fantastics, Johnny the humat cited. Spiderman originated when Lee which made him one of the world's Hollywood's most glamorous act-richest men.
torch, represented the teenager Another key Lee creation was the 
(continued on page 2) (continued on page 7)
according to lee. But his relation Hulk. "He has ~reen skin, Exhibiting a Midas-like touch, 
the observer Tuesday, April 6, 1976 

~--News Briefs--......... 
t==:::::::=:==================== International Mass demonstrations in Peking TOKYO--Chinese threw stones at security men and set fire to three motor vehicles as tens of thousands, in an unusual outburst, demonstrated in Peking's main square y7sterday to pr?test the removal of wreaths honoring the late Prem1er Chou En-la1, reports from the Chinese capital said. 
Callaghan elected prime minister 
LONDON--Foreign Secretary James Callaghan, a moderate who favors srrong ties with the United States, was chosen by fellow Laborites as Britain's prime minister yesterday. 
1::::=:==========================National Calley conviction upheld WASHINGTON--Former Army Lt. William L. Calley, convicted of murdering at least 22 Vietnamese villagers at My Lai in 1968, lost his appeal to the Supreme Court yesterday_ but will remain a free 
man . 
._On Campus Toda~'-----....~ 
12.15 p.m. --mass, Iafortune ballroom. 
3 pm 3 pm 
3:30 pm 
3 30 pm 
410 pm 
4:30pm ~.30 pm 
6:30pm 30 pm 
~ pm --tennis, univ. of wisconsin-oshkosh at n. d 
--seminar, "tradition as a source of breakthroughs" by a.w. busch, former southwest regional adminis­trator of the environmental protection agency and, vice president of environmental affairs for the southwest research institute. room 205, engineering bldg., sponsored by the civil engineering dept 
--computer course, "using the calcomp plotter" room 115, computer center/math bldg. 
--lecture, dc-Jign of humanistic work series. "what is business doing?" dr. david bowers, program director, univ. of michigan's institute for social research. hayes healy aud. sponsored by business administration and a grant from the sperry and hutchinson foundation. 
--informal discussion, a.w. busch on his experiences with the environmental protection agency and the present policies of that agency. room 112 law school. 
--speech, jimmy carter, stepan center. 
--seminar, "evn!utionary dynamics of animal domes­tication" by d1 charles a reed, univ. of illinois­urbana room 27 8, galvin aud. sponsored by biology dept. 
--meeting, ladies of n.d. meeting. library aud. 
--prayer meeting, charismatic prayer meeting. Iafortune rathskellar. 
--stage presentation, the waverly consort "las 
antigas de santa maria." o'laughlin aud. sponsored hy the performing arts series. tickets: $3.50 general, ~p students. 

8 & 10 pm -film, "west side story," engineering aud. spon­sored by cultural arts commission. admission $1. 
*The Observer 
Night Editor: Martha Fanning Ass't Night Editor Joe Bauer layout Drop in any time. ~opy Reader Pat Cole L.ay Editor Pat Cuneo Eoitorials: Jim Stevens Fea'ures Christopher J. Smit.1 Sporh· Paul Stevenson Typish Terri Harlan, Hank Van Dyl-.e, Mel Celeste, T.C. Night Controller Dave Rust Special tha 1ks to Chris Smith. 




St. Mary's accepting applications for three commissioner positions 
by Marti Hogan St. Mary's Editor 
St. Mary's Executive Board of Governance is accepting applica­tions for the positions of St. Mary's social commissioner, development commissioner and hall life commis­sioner until April 8, said Mary Lou Bilek, student body president. 
"Interested students should complete a statement why they think they are qualified and list any ideas they would like to incorporate as a commissioner," Bilek said. She added that any St. Mary's student may apply for a position. 
"We'll interview those interest­ed after they have submitted their applications,'' Bilek !n~icated. _The executive board cons1stmg of Bilek, Cathy Coyne, student body vice president and Mary Ann Stolze, vice president of Student Affairs will choose the new development commissioner and hall life commis­sioner. 
However, the social commission­er will be chosen by a committee composed of the executive board, Stevie Wernig, assistant to the vice president for Student Affairs; Mol­ly McKenna, incumbent soc_ial commissioner and another semor member of the social commission. 
Appointments will be announced before Easter break and will be­come effective immediately, Bilek said. 
One hall life commissioner will be chosen to serve all halls at ~t. Mary's, according to Bilek. "Her duty is to coordinate the hall presidents and direct communica­tion between the executive board and the hall directors," she added. Mindy Montesi is the current hall life commissioner. 
The position of development commissioner is new this new. "The position was created to aid the Development Office with fund raising activities and relations with alumnae and , the South Bend community," Bilek explained. Coyne held the position this year. 
Applications may be sent to P.O. Box 966 or delivered to room 434, LeMans Hall at St. Mary's. Stud­ents with questions should call Bilek at 5425. 

Marvelous Stan Lee entertains audience with Washington Hall comic book lecture 
Child development Be.~~h~e:~llections wouldn't have center may open been_rossible or successful without 
the kmd support of everyone at St. 

There is a possibility that the Mary's," he concluded. "It is all Early Childhood Development Cen-of you I wish to thank again and terwillbeopenthissummer,either again." 
(continued from page 1) 
.vas eight or nine years old, according to the comic sage. "I had always been mysticized with an old comic book character called 'The Spider.· He always used to punch villains in the jaw and leave 

Collections to end at dining halls 
(continued from page 1) 
before us, bombarding our con­
sciences. 
Toohey added that it seemed 
important to wonder how we were 
going to fill the void created by 
Sondej's departure. 
"Who is going to take his 
place?" Toohey asked. "~an ~e 
afford to be without nagg1ng wlt­
ncs~cs. like Al Sondcj. who refuse 
to let us forget that millions starve. 
and th~t at lea::.t some still care 
en-ough to give their lives for the 
oppressed'!" 
Greg Gramelspacher, who has 
been collecting for world hunger at 
the St. Mary's dining hall. will also 
discontinue his collections after 
tociav. 
"The students of St. Mary's 
have selflessly given over $3,000," 
he noted, "which proportionally 
matches that of Notre Dame." 
"We felt that it would be best if 
the Hunger Coalition took over 
collections at St. Mary's and that 
this would be a good time to make 
the transition," he said. Gramel­
spacher will remain in the South 

during the Notre Dame summer
session or during the entire sum­
· · t mer if there is sufficient mteres
and need. The center would be 'd' f II t f e prog
provl mg u or par-lm ­
rams for children between the ages of six and eight years. 
A h0 · · t t d 
nyone w IS meres e or
wants further information should 
The Observer is published Monday
through Friday and weekly during the sul'l'YTlel' session, except during the 
exam; and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students 
of the Univ. of Notre Darre and St.
/~Airy's College. Subscriptions may be purmased tor $18 ($10 per semester>
fro-n The Observer, Box Q, Notre Darre, Indiana 46556. Second Class
postage paid, Notre Darre, IN 46556. 
the imprint of his spider-ring on their jaw for two or three days," added Lee. 
Thor, the god of thunder. was Lee's classical plaything. In the early issues his dialogue was often blank verse supporting his archaic, stoic appearance. 
"I make it a point to make all of my characters scientifically sound," quipped the smooth-talk­ing Lee. He couldn't slide that past the audience as they retaliated with roaring applause. Continuing. he explained Thor's method of trans­portation and the thong at the end of his hammer which carries him through the air--"realism at its tines!." 
Lee touched on his characters, Dr. Strange, the X-Men, the Dare Devil and also Sgt. Fury and his Howling Commandoes. 
"I hate war stories. but we put it in the Marvel style of satire, philosophy and also craziness and it sold millions," said Lee. "We even had the first ethnic platoon--a Jew (lzzie Cohen), a black man. an ltlain, etc. And it still sold." 
One of Lee's greatest accomp­lishments was the rebirth of Cap­tain America. Captain America had flopped twice before since its collapse after World War II. However, Lee once again did the impossible. 
Captain America had fallen out of an airplane in his last issue, but Lee explained quickly, "When you're in the comic book business you can do anything." He added. "Sure, he fell out of an airplane, but he fell right into a cake of icc and was deep-frozen for 25 years." 
Currently, Marvel Comics con­trols 40 percent of the comic book 
industry  with  approximately  six  
million  comic  books  sold  per  
month.  


~~~~~~~~~~~~.-.~~~..-..--­
r.RMANDO IS NOW LOCATED NEAR CAMPUSf tTO GIVE YOU THE CUl OR STYLE YOU WANtl 
l 
c-1-wlc"l.lzLL/j_ 3a,L~::., ~,.( _l.fdi7. .J::,'t.LJL~ ~';;'-'/2 fff 
vPEN SIX DAYS A WEEK 
M· THHU FRIDAY 8 TO 5 30 ·-~TU'"'•\\ l< TO.; 

t PERSONALIZED SERVICE t 
i ARMANDQ FEMIA 143.7 N IRON'v\-OOD Df-1 t ' PHONE 277·06'5 SOUTH BEND INDIANA 
tFOR APPOINTMENT f 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
: iD'~f Qlplpnial : • ' k 3; • : anca t mpiJUJJt : 
II t FEATURING •e e LARGE, OVEN-BAKED e 
•


e APPLE PANCAKES •• •. -A REAL TREAT-\e• 
eWE NEVER COMPROMISE WITH QUALITY . • 
~ 

• U.S. 31 (Dixieway North), , . •• 
• (ACROSS FROM HOLIDAY INN)
e • 
c~a~ll~T~e~r~ri~K~M~ic~k~a~t~2~8~4;4~1~~~-===~~~~~~~~~~~~~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·••••••••••••••••••• 
'{EAJ.l,l)U/ W~i CAN'T you & 
LIKE C.i:o/?6£ 7 HE ri:V£N SENVS ~ouf. ARRo6ANT J ~ouR 
MARY {LOW£125. C.ONCElTED >AND I ..fen LlKE 
hstead of re-doing the serious TELUtJtJ you fX Acn..y WHAI approach we thought we might look '{OU CAN Uo W1;1-{ 11-lAT -p!::l into the lives of Harold and Carla 
l?a,K. yOIJ ~ AVE HE. 
four weeks after they found each 
c:ther. ----------~ 
y; 

Thnight all mixed drinks for fJfty :;; 
cents. 
Wed.--Once again the libraryoffers the country-western sounds of . "Worldngman's Talisman". The e!(citement this group has beenI creating nmst be experienced. . Stow up by 9:30 and get yourself a I



~~-~::~~-----..-.7,.-.~-~.~~--~--~~~~~~~~--~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
Tuesday, April 6, 1976 
the observer 
----------~---­
HPC alcohol proposal vetoed 




Paczesny's ruling elicits rectors' reactions 
by Don Reimer Copy Editor 
Discussion of the question of alcohol usc on the Notre Dame campus has been sparked once again by Vice President for Student Affairs, Bro. Just Paczesny's re· jcction of the HPC proposal to liberalize alcohol usc in the halls. 
In rejecting the proposal. Pac· zcsny pointed to a survey of the redors which he said showed them to be largely against the proposal which allowed for alcohol usc in common spaces in the halls and placed responsibility for guidelines on the hall councils. 
Keenan Rector Fr. RiL·hard Con· vcr., stated that he believed this is...ues was a good opportunity for di.,ru.,sion on campus. "There i~ a tantastil-issUL' about life at Notre [);lllll'," he .,aid. "Hut the ~tudent arc IL·tting it go bv without !<liking ;llllllll it ... 
hi Van Tas~cl. north quad 
Srudcnt l.ik Council repr'l''>L'ntative 
agrl'cd with Conyer'> stating that he 
felt till' proposal presented an 
opponunit~· for normalitation of 
rampus drinking. "This i., a 
dwnl'e to nornwlit.c drinking and 
rhc_v'rl' throwing it away." Ire ~aid. 
I k noted that PacJ.e),nv never 
prcsentl'd thl' proposal to. the SI.C 
for discu~'>ion. 
In reaction to these rriticisms PUl'll'~ny pointed to the passage in till' duLac Student Manual which ~tate-; that alcohol guidelines must be established bv the Oftice of Student Affuirs a~d subsequently approved by the SLC. He cmpha· sized that the guidelines must be established by his office but noted that he was open to suggestions. 

"I welcome some practical. feas­ible suggestions. in writing. so that my staff. the Dean of Students and the rectors can examine them," said Paczesny. "I would like input from students and rectors." 
Paczcsny said, however. that any proposal must conform to present state law which prohibits drinking by persons under 21 years of age. 
An Observer survey of rectors showed that of the 18 rectors contacted six were not in favor of the proposal. four did favor it, six had no comment. and two were undecided. Several of the rectors noted the need for very specific guidelines. 
Conyers felt that the HPC propo· sal could have been more articulate as to guidelines and regulations. l-Ie pointed out that the definition of "common space" could have been more spccitic. Places such as chapel~. hallways and stud~· lounge should not be considered common Sll<ICL'. according to Conyers. 
Also. noted Conyers. the role of hall start\ should b~ better dctined. 
"In Keenan." he said. "the hall stall wants to be involved." If hall staffs arc involved in the distribu­tion of alcohol. however, this may make the Universitv liable for student actions under-Indiana state law. 
Several of the rectors contacted said that the use of common rooms for parties was unacceptable. Jeanne Thomas, rectress of Breen­Phillips Hall, felt that use of common rooms caused gatherings 

No write-ins to be allowed in senior class elections 
by Paul Waller 
Staff Reporter Juniors voting today to elect cia~), officers for the I976-77 school ~-ear will have only the option of voting for or against current Junior Cia~ President l~ob Tullv, accord· ing to .John Reid, Stude-nt Affairs ortkcr in charge of class govern· ann· and rhccrlcadcrs. 
"No write-in votes will be count· L'd. · · HL·id ~aid, "because to he l•ligihil', the candidates had to apply hdorl' the Thursday deadline 
ot S pm.  Hob Tully  was  the only  
one  who  seemed  interested  in  
doing so.  If thcv write in 'Duke'  

then it won't be counted. 
Sinl'c the deadline for applica· tion~ to be on the ballot. at least two students have expressed an iutercst in running for the position of Senior Class President. Dave Faainuinu of Dillon Hall. began di~trihuting posters requesting stu· dl·nt)o to write in "Duke" on the ballot. Charles Moran of Flanner Hall made an unsucessful attempt to get his name included on the merit of a petition submitted a day after the deadline. 
Believing to be running unoppos­sed. Tully was caught off guard. "Hccausc of a misunderstanding between us and the election com· mille. we didn't carrv out our campaign plans." Tult'y stated. "The 'yes-no' type ballot was always there, but we didn't know about it until Sunday." 
Faainuinu is now pushing for 

Senior Bar holds Bahamian special 
All members of the Senior Trip to Freeport, Bahamas over Spring break are invited to a special "Bahamas Night" at Senior Bar tonight from 8:00 p.m. to 12:00 a.Ju. 
Included in the night will be Bahamian music and a slide pres· entation. The class officers encour­age senior trip participants to bring their show hats, pictures and tans to the Bahamian Night. 
Guests arc welcomed to come with members of the Senior trip. The charge for guests wi~h mem· bers is SO cents. 

students to vote "no" in order to force a new election. He said that upon discovering that Tully was running unopposed, he decided to run on a write-in basis. 
"I talked to Augie Grace and he told me thut a write-in vote would be counted,'' Faainuinu indicated. "But later he and John Heid called and told me that a write-in vote wouldn't be counted." 
Moran also decided to run after 

·seeing that Tully was running without opposition. However. he. too. failed to meet the deadline. "We fikd a petition the next day but due to the rules we couldn't be put on the ballot." Moran said. 
If another election is necessary, Moran plans to run with a ticket of Carol Miskell as vice-president. Mike Orlando as secretary, and John Martell as treasurer. Faainui­nu will run with Tom Faiver. vice president; Mark Stroble, secretary; and Jerry Graham, treasurer in the event of a run-off election. 
Tully stated that he felt that the failure of any other tickets to apply before the deadline was a show of approval of the job which they did this year instead of a show of apathy. "What we want is to push our strong points." Tully said. "If people are dissatisfied with the job we have done then they should vote 'no'. But if they're satisfied with this year then we hope that they'll support us." 
A vote of SO per cent plus one will be needed for Tully to win in this election. If he fails to reach this percentage then a new election will be held. Any junior who is able to obtain the required number of signatures will be placed on the ballot. 

to become too large. She favored section and floor parties over the larger gatherings. "Common rooms just haven't worked," she said. 
Fr. Matthew Miceli, rector of Cavanaugh and Fr. Bernard Prince rector of Morrissey. noted that there was no space in their halls which could be used as a common space for parties. Prince felt that the HpC proposal was "unfair" because not all halls possess equal facilities. 
In his letter affirming the Uni­versity's stance on alcohol use, Paczcsny inferred that a liberaliza­tion of the alcohol policy would "load the atmosphere with more alcohol''. 
Conyers stated that with enough guidelines he felt that the policy could be expanded without "load­ing the atmosphere" with alcohol. He said that if there was a relaxation of all aspects of Notre Dame social life there would be a more humane atmosphere about it. .. 
"If we legalize alcohol usc we might be able to do away with some of the bad effects," Convcrs stated He pointed to instances of desti'LIL'· tion and binge drinking in expres­sing his view that if a more relaxed atmosphere prevailed all of a person's energies would not be released at once. 
Conyers noted that in his opinion expansion of University alcohol guidelines was meant simply to provide the availability of drinking in an ordinarv social context. 
Howard Rector Fr. Eugene Gor­ski felt that if a party was properly planned and executed there was no reason that drinking could not become more sociable. "From a human and social point of view, at least in this hall. legalization of alcohol would contribute a great deal." Gorski commented. 
Fr. Thomas Stella, Rector of Sorin, stated that much of the question of alcohol usc at parties "depends on the situation." It is more than whether alcohol is legal 

Final Armory dance to be held 
The Last Chance Armory Dance, the ND Social Commission's final armory dance cf the semester. will be held on Friday night. April 9. 
Music  will  be  provided  by  
"Peech,' ·  a  Chicago  band,  and  
disco by "Catfish" Penn.  

As in past armory dances. all persons attending must purchase a ticket in advance and ride the free buses provided. Tickets, $3.00 each, will be on sale from Monday through Friday in the Student Union ticket office and starting Wednesday. in the ND dining halls between S and 6 p.m. and between 6 and 7 p.m. at the SMC dorms. Persons must show a Notre Dame or St. Mary's ID in order to purchase tickets. 
John Rooney, Assistant Social Commissioner, stated that more buses will be used in order to make it easier to get on, both at Holy Cross Hall (SMC) and at the Notre Dame circle. Buses leave from 8:4S to 9:4S p.m. 
Those persons interested in working at the dance are asked to sign up at the Student Union secretary's desk before S p.m. Tuesday. 
There are a limited number of tickets available so students should purchase them as soon as possible. 
~IDHIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIUIII.•niHHIIIIIII-MidHihllldlii-1111~ 
I  THE POSTER PLACE  i  
l100 llxl7 POSTERS only $10.00= i • • § •nsly·prlnls  i=-§ §  
~==_--­~  203 N. MAIN ST.  ~­ 
=  SOUTH BEND  289-6977  =  

noted Stella. The overall tone of a party has much to do with the usc of alcohol. 
"If people are meeting people. " Stella said.' 'then they get into that. but ifthey aren't then they do other things, like drink." 
Research that has been done in the area of alcohol use states that a proper atmosphere is very impor· tant to healthy consumption of alcohol. In a report to Congress published by the Department of Health, Education and Welfare. Morris E. Chafetz states. "that among cultures which use alcoholic beverages but are little troubled by alcohol problems, the general ten· dency is for alcohol to be sipped slowly, consumed with food, and partaken of in the company of others in relaxed. comfortable sur· roundings." 
"Drinking is taken for granted." he continues,"and given no special signitkancc. Moreover, intoxica· tion is abhorred." 
Chafctz notes that the Ameril:an pattern of drinking. in contrast. is rapid and usually done under tense circumstances. The end goal is to "get high". 
Peggy Barnum, akohol counsc· lor for Psychological Services. ag· rccs with Chafetz and notes that "if alcohol is part of a function people will have a more responsible atti­tude towards it." 
When a student has to borrow an ID to go out and drink he has feelings of •guilt before he has even had a drink. Healthy drinking must be relaxed and sociable, Barnum stated. if it's against the rules you only enjoy what you're getting away with. 
Conyers stated his belief that as long as there is a taboo on the use of alcohol there will be a vicarious satisfaction about its violation. 
Barnum agreed with this state· ment pointing out that "anything illegal is more desirable when one wants to rebel." 
Several rectors disagreed with the idea that a more relaxed alcohol policy would lead to more ~ol'iallv oriented drinking. Thoma), felt th..·t the situation was better at present She noted that liberalization didn ·, work in past year~ and she said thar 
smaller  gatlll'ring~  provided  th•  
opportunity for people to talk.  
"The way  of getting  mon·  re­ 

laxed is just more good group experience," she ~aid. 
Morrissey rel·tor Prince stated that the present mles cnl·ouragc more responsibk drinking. and Fr. James Riehle. rector of h111ghom felt that most students handle drinking pretty well now.'' 



rijl;tm ••m~ 7B ~ 
Man in the City: Confronting the American Dream 
WEST SIDE STORY 
Directed by Robert Wise & Jerome Robbins 
ENGINEERING AUDITORIUM 7 & 10 pm April 6, 1976 ADM. $1°0 
April 6, 1976 

TO: All Undergraduate Students 
at Notre Dame. 
FROM: The Search Committee for the 
Dean of the Freshman Year of Studies. 
H has already been announced that Dr. Enil T. HofnBn has applied for consideration for reappoint~nt as Dean of the Freshman Year of Studies. This develop~nt substantially changes the duties of the Seardl Cormittee which v.es eleded by the Academe Coundl on February 23. We are no longer ~rely charged with the task of recomnending a su~ssor to IRan Hofman, but also, in acmrd with the Notre ~~ Faa.llty Handbook, with evaluating the perlonmnm of the FreshnBn Year of Studies for the past five years. 
Hs_hould be errphasized that sinm Dr. Hofman has offidally res_1gned as dean he does not automatically continue in off_•m--as \Wuld be the case if ~rely a five-year review were bemg conducted. Other candidates for dean will be considered. However, sinm one of the candidates is Dr Hof~n,_an irJ1lOrtant aiterion which ~II be co~sidered in his <ase IS h1s perlonnanm for the past f1ve years m the Offim. 
No other University Offimr so dosely affects the lives of Notre ~~ Undergraduates as does the Dean of the FreshnBn Year. So~ of the finest state~nts which have been received by out Conmittee to date have co~ from Notre ~~'s rurrent ~~erg-:ac;tuates. Accordingly, the Search Conmittee now ~hats opm1ons from all students on the positive and negative aspeds of the Freshman Year of Studies. Your comnents should be sent to ~ in I1T)' capadty as Chaiman of the Search Cormittee. You can be assured that your comnents will be kept in strictest confidenm and rrsde available only to the ~rmers of the Comnttee and appropriate ~1gher adninistration officers. When the new dean 1s appomted, comnents and suggestions on irrproving the FreshnBn Year will be made available to himlAier without !he a~r(s) be_ing ide~tified. All of us are interested only in . 1rrprovmg the h1gh quahty of your Notre ~~ education in its rmst irJ1lOrtant year. 
Sinm we are wori<ing under a dose deadline, we ask that all comnentsbe made in writing no laterthan M>nday, April12. 
Thanking you for your moperation on the part of the Search Comnttee, 
Michael J. Murphy, C.S.C. (Dept. of Earth Scienms) Olainnan, Search Comnttee for the Dean of the FreshnBn 
Year 
Thomas Blantz, c.s.c. (History>
William Bula (Senior, Engineering College) Leslie Martin (English) Walter Ni~rski {General A-ogram of Liberal Studies) 
~IUIIHUWJUUIIIII--IIIIIIUHIIIIIII--WIEIIIIII.III..IIRii~ ,CiR>i>eiiiiiiiirtiiiiWiiiiiliilaiimsoiiiiiiniiii(Aiiccoiiiiiiuiintiianiiiicyiiii)iiiiiiiiiiiiiliiiiliiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiill 
r 
*T~d.QQ,~~rver
Founded November 3, 1966 
The Observer is publ1shed by students of the University of Notre Dame and EDITORIAL BOARD St. Mary's College It does not necessarily reflect bthe poill"cies of e~.~~er Thomas 0' Neil Eclltor-in-Chief 1nst1tut1on The news is reported as accurately and o wct1ve Y as possl e. Dan Sanchez Managing Editor Editorials represent the opm1on or a maJOrity of the F:d1tonal Board. G Executive Editor Commentaries are the views of individual editors. Opinions, cartoons and .vrf~g 8b~ngs Executive Editor regular columns express the views of their authors. Column space is r!t Hu:ni/i~ Editorial Editor available to all members of the community, and letters are encouraged to Bob Mader Executive News Editor promote the free expression of varymg op1n1ons on campus. Maureen Flynn Campus Editor 
Marti Hogan St. Mary's Editor Ed;torials _ Don Reimer Copy Editor
283 1715Nt•\\,; 2!\ l-8bb1 Business: 283-7471 
Tim O'Reiley Features Editor Fred Herbst Sports Editor 
Tom Modglin Advertising Manager Tom Whelan Mary Egan Contributing Editor 
Tuesday, April 6, 1976 


Thanks, AI 
Today is AI Sondej's last day of collection. The event marks the end-point of his two-year labor of conscience and service of love at Notre Dame. In those two years he has collected over $25,000 from concerned students which he has dispersed through seven different agen­cies to aid the millions of victims of hunger and other global disasters. As Fr. Hesburgh says on the front page, we all owe Al Sondej a sincere word of thanks. 
Sondej has asserted in the past that it is not himself who should be thanked, but the students who contributed money. Of course, the students deserve thanks, but no one else has endured the discouraging weather and the long hours Al has spent outside the Notre Dame dining halls. 
Sondej has said that he did not devote these many hours just to the problem of world hunger. He has worn a poster during collections which asked whether or not we are all equally children of God, and he has sympathetically pointed to the major problems which confront some people more directly than others. These problems include thirst, hunger, disease, exposure, violence, abortion, pollution and ignorance. Sondej will be leaving Notre Dame to deal with them all the more directly as an intern for the World Watch Institute. The daily ordeal of collection will be assumed by members of the World Hunger Coalition. 

Fr. Hesburgh, the Observer and, we are sure, the Notre Dame community, wish Al Sondej the best of luck. He has made students more aware of global concerns and has made the world a better, more equal, more Christian place by his pre­sence. 
Again, our thanks and appreciation. 
opinion~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
Candidate From Central Casting 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii john f. ha n Ie y 
Although the presidential pri­maries are not even one-fourth completed. many people have tag­ged former Georgia Governor Jim­my Carter as the "front-runner". Carter himself boasts that he is now "unstoppable" in his quest for the Democratic nomination which will be decided in New York three months from now. This is quite a claim from a man who is, at present. merely fourteen hundred votes shy of a sure thing. However. no one can deny that the strength of the Carter candidacy was an unexpected phenomenon. 
"Who is Jimmy Carter?". many people ask. In recent articles in The Atlantic Monthly and The New republic. Steven Brill and Reg Murphy. former publisher of The Atlantic Constitution and an old Carter foe. have attempted to bring Carrer's personality to light, albeit unfavorablv. Carter's own aides have not ·really counterattacked. but. instead. have done their best to keep any cohesive image of their man from emerging in this cam­paign. Still. no one really seems to know completely who this man with the frosty grey hair and the smile that stretches from Atlanta to Savannah and back really is. 
It seems to me that Jimmy Carter may be the perfect choice for president in the Bicentennial year in at least one respect. He looks and acts like the archetypal hero of one of our countries richest heri­tages: the social film. With that quiet. easy manner and that seem­ingly unassuming political stance, it would not be hard for Jimmy Carter to play the lead in a film by Frank Capra--a role which could easily have gone to Gary Cooper or Jimmy Stewart. However, as his opponents are hardly Edward Ar­nold or Claude Rains, Carter is also no Cooper or Stewart. 
Carter is running against Wash­ington, a fashioable thing to do this year. He presents himself as the non-politician. He wants to be the eternal boy scout in the arena of the jaded. This was the position of Longfellow Deeds, John Doe, and Jefferson Smith. They were all good ol' boys from down home who thought that they could bring virtue into government and business. 

Carter presents himself as a latter-day representative of these folksy protagonists who inspired the audiences of the 1930's. When he says, ''I'll never tell a lie," the American people desperately want to believe him because they've been lied to far too often in the past. But his critics such as Reg Murphy claim that Carter is guilty of "pathetic little lies". 
The problem with Jimmy Carter is a sense of self-righteousness. He does not explain himself be­cause he doesn't think that he has to. In this post-Watergate era. Americans demand that their poli­ticians be uncorrupted and uncor­ruptable. Carter's trouble is that he wants to come off cleaner than clean without ever going near the water. 
There is an inner peace to Jimmy Carter which comes from his fundamentalist religious backgro­und. Announcing that he is "twice born". Carter's campaign is as­sisted by his sister, Ruth Stapleton, who is a faith healer. It is this religious zeal which may provide the impetus for the Carter cam­paign and, also, it arrogance. Carter is ambiguous on the issues because he doesn't feel compelled to be otherwise. The religious self-righteousness of Carter fright­ens theologian Martin Marty who thinks that Carter. as president, might claim that he's getting "messages from God" while con­ducting public policy. 
A major flaw exists in comparing Carter with Capra's celluloid hero. The parts that Cooper and Stewart portrayed were truly innocents. Carter hasn't gotten to where he· ts without compromise and some dubious alliances. While running against "politicians". Carter has proven himself to be a consummate politician. He was cozy with Lester Maddox and Georgia racists in order to defeat former governor Carl Sanders, a more liberal candi­date. in the gubernatorial primary in 1970. His supporters saw the conduct of his administration as a betrayal of trust. Today, no one is really sure where Carter stood or where he now stands. 
There is a contemporary ana­Iogue for Carter in film which strikes closer to what the candidate is than what he appears to be. He reminds me of the appropriately unseen Hal Philip Walker of Nash­ville. People were amazed that the fictitious electorate of Nashville could be electrified by such politi­cal inanities as. "Does Christmas smell like oranges to you?", but how much different is that from a candidate who states nothing more startling than ''!love my wife more today than the day we were married"? Audiences saw George Wallace as Walker, but the con­nection is faulty. Robert Altman's bicentennial candidate has become a self-fulfilling prophecy in Jimmy Carter. 
The Carter campaign continues, but. even the most avid Carterites admit that their support is "soft". Most of the people who vote for Carter would prefer Hubert Hum­phrey. Still, Carter's soft-spoken spirituality enthralls many people. His message is simple and direct. He wants us all to love one another and return us to the simple truths that guided the Capra heroes. After all. weren't they vindicated in the end? This is the sort of thing that packed them into the theaters in the 1930's and may do the same for the weary populace today. Who knows? With Jimmy Carter as president, we might even have "dish night" at the White House. 
seriously folks!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 


'Was Georgetown Snickering?' 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiia r t bu c hwaI d 
WASHINGTON-My good friend William Saphire is a very rare bird in Washington. He is the only columnist in town who is still willing to defend his old boss Richard Nixon. Last week Mr. Saphire raged at all the Nixon-haters for snickering at the story in the Woodward and Bernstein book when President Nixon asked Henry Kissinger to get down on his knees and pray with him. Then the President broke down in tears and cried like a baby. 
Mr. Saphire, who constantly points out the excesses of Presidents Kennedy and Johnson to show that Mr. Nixon was guilty of no more wrongdoing, accused the Georgetown set of ascribing the praying and crying of Nixon to mental instability. 
As spokesman for the GeJrgetown set. I wish to assure Saphire 
that not one person in the area snickered when they read the story. The reason was, according to Woodward and Bernstein. Mr. Nixon had not only been praying and crying--he had also ben drinking. It is perfectly all right with the Georgetown set for a President to pray. even with Henry Kissinger. But it's another story for the Presdient 
of the United States to drown his sorrows in booze. 
The reason is obvious. The President of the United States. as everyone is aware. has his finger on the BUTTON. The fear of all of us was that a drunk President might decide in his stupor that if he had to go. he was going to take Georgetown with him. 
We had a nightmare of Mr. Nixon staggering through the White House mumbling, "Where's the button? Gatta push the button. I'll show those (expletives) that they can't push the President of the United States around. Pat, where's the button?" 
"I hid it. Go to bed, Richard." "You had no right to hide the button. It's my button and I can push it if I want to.'' "Please, Richard, you've had too much to drink.l'll tell you where the button is in the morning." 
"I want to know where it is now. As Commander-in-Chief, I order you to tell me where the button is. If you refuse. I'll have to assume you're one of THEM." 
"Please. Richard. Tell me again about China." "Don't want to talk about China. I want a drink, and then I'm going to find that ,button." 
"Richard. will you stop throwing my clothes out of the drawers! It's not in any of them. I didn't hide the button in the medicine cabinet either....No, it's not under the bed. Now why don't you go to sleep?" 
"It's gotta be somewhere in this house. I'll bet you AI Haig knows where the button is ....Operator, get me Haig.... AI, have you any idea where Pat hid the button? .... Yeh, THAT button .... What do you mean why do I want to know? ....Don't argue with me....Where the hell is it?....You don't know? ....Well, is there another button around? ....There's only one?....Dammit, there should be a spare one.... Suppose it got lost or something. AI, the first thing you want to do in the morning is put a button in every room in the White House....When I want to push it, I don't want to have to go looking all over for it....You wanna come up and have a drink with me? ....Ah. you're no fun. I don't know why I keep you around. 
"Operator. get me Kissinger. Henry, you got any idea where Pat hid the BUTTON? ... You don't, huh? .... Well, I think you're lying. As '· matter of fact, I know you're lying....! want to tell yo).l something, Henry. I don't like you. I never liked you. I don't like any Krauts and when I find that button and push it. you're going to be the first to go ... l don't care if you prayed with me or not. you got no guts. If you did you'd help me find the button.... " 
It probably didn't happen this way, but I have to tell you Saphire. that's the way we in Georgetown thought it was going on in those last days and that is why we aren't snickering now. We were scared stiff! 
As President Ulysses S. Grant once said at a party in Georgl'twon. "An administration that prays together stays together--but one that drinks together sinks together." 
DOONESBURY by Garry Trudeau 
AN/J IZI.. HAVG

NATvRAUY. 10 CAU STATe. 
tf/5 WGR£ I HAV&N'T RJ3Af)
I 

MJNf)GRJNf!J ANY OF THGIR 
WHAT 7HG 1/.5. 015PATCJ.I&S 
RJI.ICY tWIJW IN W&eK5J 85 H!i/?&.. 


--~-~ ~--~----------------------------------------------------------------------~ 

record reuiews 
Laura Nyro returns at last, 
Maria Muldaur heard from. 
Three years ago. for personal reasons, laura disappeared from sight. Now she's back -­back in our he,lrts. 
gregg b. bangs 
Take your shoes off, put your feet up, lean back and close your eyes here comes Maria. 
Tuesday, April 6, 1976 
the observer 

5 

Laura N\TO is back after a three vcar ah~l'nl'l' from thl' musil' world. It was an ah~L·ncl' that ~;m her do absolutely no touring or recording. As a matll'r of fact. \hl' di\appcarcd from public view. 
··Why did ~hl' ll'avc'! Where did she go'!" a\ked the intl'rvicwers. Well, she went to the orient to tour a little. and the reason ~he ldt can he!>! he cxplamect by listening to the third song on her new album. Smile: 
Money, money, money I feel like a pawn In mJ own world 

"Money" is a rellcetion on a financial power play she was involved in when she was renegotiating her contract with Colum­bia rcwrds four years ago. David Geffen was preparing to leave Columbia (and Clive Davis) to form Asylum Roeords and wa-. going to take Nyro with him. A series of hassles and emotional feuds followed and Nyro returned to Davis. She hasn't talked· to Geffen since and was forced to "bleed a little" for the emotional battles she went through. Her disillusionment with the financial aspect of the record industry led to her withdrawal. 
Now· she is back with 32 minutes of music that was recorded late last year with such accomplished musicians as John Tropea and Huey McCracken on guitar, David Friedmanon vibes and the fabulous Randy and Michael Brecker on trumpet and woodwinds respectively. The return was reported to be a very pleasant experience, acl'Ording to friends of Nyro. Perhaps this led to her entitling the album, Smile . 
The album itself is not a radical departure from the earlier albums of the late sixties. It is still a combination of folk, ja11 and a little blues. This combination was a hit out of place in the time period just mentioned, for cvcr~·body seemed to be into folk music then. However. with the turning of Joni Mitchell and Paul Simon to 
jaa and blues now. Nyro's work stands out even more than it did then. when she. and not Carole King. was the favorite female rock singer of New York City. 
A few of the individual songs themselves recount Nyro's experiences during her three year lay-off. "Money" is about her previously mentioned financial disillusion­ment and "Stormy Love" recounts the break-up .>f her marriage. "Smile," although not about any specific incident shows an Oriental influence which was studied during her eastern visits. as is "Child·of the Junks". 
Nyro recounts all of these actual or spiritual experiences in a beautiful, haun­ting fragile voice that tluctuates from high to low with seemingly no effort. The voice twists its way around a lyric and makes them all the more listenable and intri­guing. 
Although she accompanies herself nicely on piano and guitar. Nyro greatly enhances her recordings by the addition of the studio musicians she works with. particulary the Brecker Brothers. Randy helped make Bruce Springsteen's "Meeting Across The l{ivcr." the touching story of the urban jungle that it is with his haunting trumpet solo. He docs the same in Nyro's "I Am The Blues." It contrasts with Nvro's fragile voice to present a balanced effect. Brother Michael's saxophone work is the driving force behind "Money." Unlike many solo artists, Nvro allows her studio musicians a great deal of leeway. This freedom, especially with the Brecker Brothers. pays off. for their contributions arc tremendous. 
Nyro is now on tour. With this album behind her, she can borrow a line from "The Cat Song" to describe her tour. A fine album and a good attitude can only lead to a person who is on "her merry way." 
"Sprl'ad your joy around the world" is a line fmm "Sweet Harmonv." the title cut of Maria Mulduar's nc\\~ album. And ~ptTad her joy around the world is exactly what Mulduar docs in this thoroughly cnio.vahlc recording. 
Mulduar is primaril~· known for her rl'mrding of "Midnight At The Oasis." Although thi~ cut garnered her a large amnunt of attention in the AM singles market. her mark among musicians is in thl' !kid of jan and blues ~inging. While working solo or with her husband Geoff. Mulduar has gained the respect of both old-time musicians and jazz singers. She also wa~ known to be a great inspiration to singers such as Linda Ronstadt and Wendy Waldman, who wrote two of the songs on thi~ album. 
Mulduar and Ronstadt arc somewhat similar singers. Neither of the two plays an instrument (professionally at least) and neither of the two write their material. The di!Tcrcnec lies in the style of music they chooSL' to sing and in the way they present their product. 
Ronstadt operates out of the country style. although a lot of people also place her in the rock category. Evidence of this can he seen in the Playboy Reader's Music Poll where Ronstadt was named by readers as both best rock and best country female vocalist. Muldaur. on the other hand, chooses the aforementioned jazz and blues field. along with a reworking of older works. 
Muldaur has also been known to warbel a few sexy lines of her own. After all, "Midnighi--" is no fairy talc for kids. However. she possesses a fragile voice that can he used for even more purposes than Ronstadt. The sound is not as full or deep, hut the range is greater. She can sound earthy and enticing. as she docs on "Sweet Harmony" or pretty and innocent as Wendy Waldman's "Wild Bird" makes her sound. 
"As An Eagle Stirrcth In Her Nest," a bible song written by Rev. W. H. Brewster makes Muldaur sound as if she's been 
dragged out of the church choir--she's that authentic. One wants to join the band­wagon and clap alo-ng. 
Muldaur's most appealing song is "Back By Fall." another Waldman composition. While lamenting about how the city has gotten her down and how she'll have to leave for the summer. she conveys a sense of despair; one that can only be satisfied by an escape to the country. Vi Redd's sax solo compliments. but does not overpower Muldaur's fragile delivery. 
Muldaur also knows how to have a lot of fun with a tune. Harry Wood's "We Just Couldn't Say Goodbye" features Muldaur teaming with Ellen Kearney and Mary Ann Price to produce a Lennon Sister jaunt that sounds, if anything else. cute. 
Billy Payne's ragtime piano highlights 
John Herald's "Jon the Generator," while 
"Rockin' Chair" features Joe Harncll's 
jazzy keyboard work. In all. Muldaur make 
exccllant use of her back-up musicians; who range from guitarist Waddy Wachtel to bassist Willie Weeks to baritone Sahib Shihab. 
Maria Muldaur sounded like she was . having a good time on "Midnight at the Oasis.'' Sweet Harmony is an album where she sounds like she's having fun on all ten. The listener will agree. 


Read this! 
Writers of all kinds --comedy, culture, women's things, obituaries, and most any subject you can think of -­are wanted for the Observer's feature page [the page you are now reading]. If you are interested, call Tim O'Reiley at 8526 or 8661. leave a message if he isn't there. 
part two: conclusion 

the Forgotten 
Sacrament? 
fr. tom me nally, esc 
How do vou revive a "dying" sana­
men!'? · 

At Notre Dame and around the world. 
Catholics arc being asked to realize the 
value of the sacrament of Penance. which 
many have discarded in recent years. 
Spotlighted is the new Rite of Penance 
which has been introduced in some places 
already and will be in universal usc at the 
start of next Lent. 
The new rite, our procedure for receiving 
the sacrament. lists some changes in going 
to confession. Above all. however. it tries 
to change our thinking about such topics 
as sin. reconciliation and conversion. 
But even after considering new insights 
into topics like these. as we did yesterday, 
some nagging questions remain for many 
Catholics. In this final article we'll 
examine the questions and give the steps 
of the new rite of individual Penance. 
When exactlv docs the new rite of penance go int-;, effect here? At Notre Dame. the priests who are available for confessions in the evenings at Sacred Heart Church. in the Penance room described above. will be prepared to use the new rite after Easter. But if you prefer to confess in the "old" way. that's tine with them. In other places where confessors arc available on campus. the decision will he up to the priest and penitents during the next year. 
What arc the "steps" of the new rite? A 
penitent using the new rite for private 
confession makes the sign of the cross and 
then is invited by the priest to have trust in 
God. The penitent responds "Amen" to 
the short prayer of the priest and then 
listens while the priest reads a short 
passage from scripture. Perhaps priest 
and penitent may take a minute to discuss 
this passage. 

Then the penitent confesses his or her 
sins. receives counsel from the priest, and 
accepts a small act of penance. In the new 
rite. these penances are more apt to be 
prat·tical" rather than saying a few Hail 
Mary's. A penitent who has confessed 
insensitivity to her roommate, for example, 
might he asked to make a special effort 
during the next week to really listen to 
what her roommate is saying. 
After confessing one's sins. the penitent 
expresses sorrow in his or her own words 
or by using any one of a number of prayers. 
Then the priest extends his hands over the 
penitent's head. a gesture of healing and 
restoration, and recites the beautiful 
prayer of absolution. In conclusion, the 
priest says --"Give thanks to the Lord for he is good,'' to which the penitent replies -­"His mercy endures forever." Then the priest dismisses the penitent with a little prayer of peace. 
All in all. the procedure for going to 
confession is not much different than it 
used to be. What is important, however, is 
that we arc called on to change our 
attitudes about such topics as sin and 
forgiveness. If we can do this we will be 
making real headway, regardless of 
whether we usc the "old" or "new" rite or 
make up our own with the help of the 
priest. 

Why should I confess my sins to a priest? Many say they confess their sins directly to God and have no need of a "middle man." True, it's a very good idea to tell God often 1\L' arc sm-r~· for our ~in~. But it al''' nw~, .. sen\L' to conf<·,~ our s;n, to a prt<''t. Ihc1 · arl' 'cvcral rea,on' ,, hv thi' i' '"· 
Bccau'c our 'in' afkrt thv rommuntl\ then· i' a senw in whirh \\L' han· to b· "wckomcd hack" into the L'<lllllllUnit · after IH' 'in. Thv pril'~t ha' thi' rok; h· at'!' not onlv in the IHIIlll' of (jod but in th• name of the.communit.v. 
thmevcr. this dOL'' not l'xcmpt u~ lrn1• going to our neighbor and telling him ,.. her wv arc sorrv. A hu,hand who lw · quarreled violcn.tly with his wife i' 1111• doing enough if he simply confcs-.cs th•·· sin to a priest and does no mort·. He nHt'l also be reconciled with his wik whom h· has offended. 
Also. God usuall~· docs not deal dircL·tly with us from on high. He USL'' persons and events. In this sacrament he uses a priest to speak his word of counsl·l and forgiveness. 
From the penitent's point of view, there is value in revealing oneself to another person. By naming the negative forces in our lives, we can more easily ovcrconw them. If the confessor is a spiritual priest. drawing not only on human skills hut on prayer, he can help us stop deceiving ourselves and say things we find it difticult to say. 
Do I have to go to confession face-to­face? No, though the new rite of Penance encourages this. Behind the main altar at Sat·rcd Heart Church (in the alcove next to the one with the Plcta by Mestrovic), therl' is a Penance room which allows both options. You may go anonymously behind a s.:rccn or sit down in a comfortable chair facing the priest. 
Face-to-face confession has much merit It allows for a more open and informal cxd1angc between penitent and priest. Frequently. students come to the rooms of priests on campus for confession. 
How often should I go to confession? If there is no serious sin to confess, usc y01 ,. own judgment about how helpful it wou I be. Mass and the reception of tl Eucharist. the penitential rite at tl· beginning of Mass, communal pcna111 services --all these are just a few wa~ ..; outside confession that we can be rec01 . ciled. But Lent is a season wh<· '1 confession makes a lot of sense because " • are trying to put our lives on a high• r plane. 
What should I confess? Perhaps it s here that the biggest problem arises f, .r many. Where exactly docs sin enter n v life? · 
Not long ago penitents asked thcr . selves --"What have I done?" --and trit d to recall faults and infractions of the rule~ Nowadays the emphasis is on the questi< n --"What kind of person am I?" 
When penitents confront thcmselvc' with that question, they arc forced to sec if their lives arc heading in the right direction. So. students ask thcmsclvl'' about their responsibilities, question thctr fairness and honesty in relationships. and consider whether they arc always scnsitin· and considerate. In turn, these could lead them to explore their attitudes about such difticult areas as sexuality,. alcohol and other drugs, and classroom' cheating. 
It can he really llclplul to foeus on questions like: What habits and attitude' of sin do I sec in myself'! What patterns of selfishness? While concentrating on patterns. however. we cannot ovl•rloo~ individual sinful acts. After all. these ach now ncccssal'ily from the direction ou1· lives arc taking. We should still confcs·. serious sin and it's a good idea also '" mention shortcomings which are leas~ serious. Granted. there arc arguments about what consititutes serious sin. Nevertheless. most of us arc able to tell seriously sinful acts from those less serious. 
the observer Tuesday, April 6, 1976 



Curriculum offers fifty new courses 
by Jim Commyn istic vs. the Existential Novel, Economics will add one new offer six m1m-courses over the orary Latin American Poetry, Staff Reporter which will be taught by Professor course on the 300 level, Human course of the fall semester. Stud­MLSP 489. A new member of the Joseph X. Brennan. Another com­Resource Labor Markets. Other ents may sign up for any three of department, Paul Anderer, will the six being offered over the teach a new course in Japanese,
parative literature seminar entitled new courses include Stabilization course of the semester. One other Japanese Literature in Translation, Language and Silence will be Policy, ECON 465; Political Econ­EDITOR'S NOTE: For the first taught by Professor William Krier omics Methods and Theory, ECON new offering is History 301, Dom· MLJA 450. No new courses will betime in several semesters, no ination and Dependence. The offered in the German or Italianon Tuesdays and Thursdays at 515; and a Seminar if PraticumCourse Evluation Booklet will be course is a team taught course areas of the department.
2:45. Teaching, ECON 702. Mathemati·available to students for consulta­Two other courses offered for the cal Economics I has a new number, headed by Dr. Fredrick Pike .. No new courses will be offered in tion in selecting courses for the first time will be Sean Golden's ECON 437, and the graduate level Modern Irish I will be taught for either the Department of Speechupcoming semester. In an effort to ~ourse in Joyce, ENGL 494, and the first time in the Department of and Drama, or the Music Depart­
statistics course has changed its
fill this void, the Observer offers, John McDonald's course in Liter­number to ECON 591. Modern and Classical Languages. ment. The Music Department will as a service to its readers, a ary Criticism: Literature and Theo­Only one new course will be The course, MLCE 111, will be offer all its courses in its new two-part series featuring the new logy, open to graduates and ad­offered jointly with the English location, Hoynes Hall.
offered in Anthropology next fall,
courses to be offered next fall. 
vanced English majors only. The Sex Roles and Cultural Perspect· Department. Ancient Near East, A spokesman for the PsychologyToday's concentration Is on the course currently depends on the ives, ANTH 330. CLAS 304, will be offered jointly Department could not be contacted new courses offered in Arts and success of a grant application New course offerings in Sociol­with the History Department. to discuss its new courses.
Letters. Tommorrow's article looks McDonald is expecting. It will be ogy include Professor Barrett's Roman Comedy, CLLA 343, will Any additional information con­at the new courses in Business, return to the curriculum after a cerning any co!Jrses being offeredoffered to 20 students who are course Sexuality and the Law, SOCScience and Engineering. 
long absence. can be obtained from the particular willing to commit themselves to 202; eight new courses on current One new course will be offered department offering the course.
this possibility if it materializes. issues, three on the 300 level and on the graduate level in French. Registration within the depart­
Five new courses will be featured tive on the 400 level. Both Social 
Over tiftv new courses will be in the Philosophy Department. Psychology and Social Organization French 576, 20th Century French ment for majors continues through offered for the tirst time next fall by These include Foundations of have received new course num­Novel. will also be open to under­Wednesday. On Thursday, incom­the various departments of the Knowledge. PHIL 357; Religion bers. SOC 303 and SOC 304 graduates with four years of back­ing seniors will pick up their class Cnivcrsitv. The news courses ground in the language. cards for elective courses. On
and Art. PHIL 361. Classical Phil­respectively. Sociology 335. Irish, 
range fro-m tilm writing, co-taught Two new courses will be offered Friday, juniors-to-be will do the
osophy of Religion, PHIL 363; Italians and Poles has been restruc­
hy Hollywood producer Tony Bill, in Spanish, Major Latin American same. Sophomore registration will
Philosophy of Capitalism, PHIL tured from Ethnicity in American 
tn the newlv restructured course in Writers, MLSP 365, and Contemp-begin Monday, April 12.
371; and on the graduate level Society, a course offered second 
Civil Engizieering, Man and His Models and Metaphors, PHIL 685. semester last year. ...-;· -­Environment. which will feature The Theology, English and Phil­
The Department of Government the extensive use of computers. osophy Departments will be located and International Studies is offer­In the College of Arts and in the ballroom of the LaFortune ing only one new course on the 
B~jrE1{j~~~f~'~G·· ®
Letters. the English and Theology 
Student Center on Thursday and undergraduate level. It is Themes departments lead with the most Friday to distribute class cards. and International Relations, GOVT new courses offered. Two courses 
Several other new courses will be 437. It will be taught only on 
~~~~~~-----­
•are cross-listed between the two offered in Arts and Letters. In the Thursday afternoons by Professor 
UNISEX HAIR SULING 
departments, English 354A and Art Department, a new offering is Schmidt. Three new courses are Theology 369. Religious Themes in African Art History. 
being offered on the graduate level 
129 DIXIEWAY SOUTH ROSElAND
Western Literature. The course is Four new courses highlight the in the department.
taught by Ellen Weaver. The other Program in American Studies. In addition to restructuring its 
IN PORTAGE RfALTY BUILDING 277.0734
cross-listed course offered is Eng­Three new elective courses will be lish 424B and Theology 461, Bibli· offered. They are: AMST 453, cal Literature. The course is sched­American Film 1915-1950, and uled for Tuesdays and Thursdays at AMST 460, News in American Life. 
1:15 p.m. and will be taught by Both are taught by Professor Thomas Jemielity of the English Kolbenschlag. Professor Thomas Department. Schlereth will teach another new 
Other new courses in Theology elective course, AMST 488, The include THEO 208, Women and Historian and America. A new Man in the Bible; THEO 214, communications course is Tele­Christiam Mysticism; THEO 215, communications I taught by Harry 
Principles of Christianity; THEO Kevorkian of WNDU-TV. 
225. Christianity and Moral Life; Elizabeth Christman 1·oins the 
and THEO 240. Betrayal and faculty and will teach Writing for Forgiveness. team taught by Pro­Publication and a seminar in Cur­

fessors Gallen and Hughes. All the rent American Fiction. 
above courses are listed as tirst courses in the course schedule booklet and are open to any one, not just sophomores. 
Another new course offered will he THEO 271. Exploring Faith. Instead of picking up class cards in the Theology Department office~ registration for this course is being handled bv Sr. Jean Lenz and Fr. Thomas McNally. Anyone interest­ed in taking this course is asked to get in touch with Lenz or McNally at 7072 or 7232. Registration for Theology and Community Service, THEO 25 IN. is also being handled outside the department. Interested students can enroll in the course by calling Eileen Stenzel at 277-1250. 
Other new courses in Theology include Marriage and the Family. THEO 334; THEO 335, American Religious Thought; Prophet's Role and'Modern Man taught by Morton Kelsey, THEO 336; Psychology and Religion, THEO 453; and Death and Dying. THEO 454. 
The highlight of the offerings in English is English 304, Film Writ­ing, co-taught by Professor Donald Costello and Hollywood movie pro­ducer Tony Bill. This course was di~cussed in a separate article in The Observer earlier this semester. Admission to the course is limited to 20 students and applications must have been submitted prior to pre-registration and given subse­quent approval by the instructor. Credit is offered as Pass/Fail only. 
English 309, while keeping the 
'arne course number, takes on a 
different title, Writing Essays, and 
a shift in emphasis. The course is 
taught at 1 MWF by Professor 
James Robinson. Fr. Beichner's 
course in Arthurian Legends, Eng· 
!ish 33, which has been offered only 
once before, will again be featured 
in the fall. 

Other courses new to the English Department for the fall of 1976 are Modern British Literature I, ENGL 396; ENGL 405A, Seminar in Compative Literature: The Natural" 
•. •,.. • ~ T~ Y., ....,.'(.V.. . · _. . 
Our jet
fares to 
luropeare
less than
anJother
sclieduled 
airline's. $380 throug_h
June l&,anll 
JO&canbook


anrtime. 
If you are 12 to 23, our youth fare is made for you. $360 round-trip New York-Luxembourg, through June 15; $410 June 16through September 15. From Chicago,$401 through June 15; $451 from June 16through September 15. Direct flights from New York and Chicago to Luxembourg in the heart of Europe. Fares subject to government approval. See your travel agent, write or call: Icelandic Airlines, 630 Fifth Ave., N.Y., N.Y. 10020. 800-555-1212 
;? 
~ 

ICElANDIC 
tN 

$229°0 w/ f 1.8 LENS 
Hunting for Easter gifts and goodies? Join the Easter parade of bargains at the Greatest Place on Worth! 
CAVALIER CAMERA 
NILES AND THE SCOTTSDALE MALL PHONE 684-2640 
...... ~·~----~~----------..----------------·~'··-···----------------------------..~ 
Tuesday, April 6, 197& 
the observer 
Five positions still open 



SU commissioners named 
by Kathy Mills position of assistant director first, "I want to break the kind of 
News Editor and then come to a decision on elitism attached to the Student 
services commissioner.'' Union," Saddler stated. "We're 
Student Union Director Ken He also noted the Services just students working for students. Ricci announced yesterday four of Commission is the largest Student We need student ideas and student the nine Student Union commis­Union commission, and the ap­help." sioners for the 1976-77 academic pointment of its commissioner .in­"Anyone who wants to become year. volves more people to contact. involved can," Saddler emphas­
Joe Bury has been appointed In making the appointments, ized. "We need as many people as 
academic commissioner, Kevin Ricci said he talked with all the possible." He encouraged students Saddler will serve as social com­outgoing commissioners, Student interested in working on the Social missioner. Jim Speier will fill the Union director and assistant direct­Commission to get in contact with post of concerts commissioner and or and with all the applicants. ''A him. Maura Donohue will continue as lot of good people applied," he Speier, a freshman business cultural arts commissioner. pointed out, "but I think we got the intent from San Antonio, Texas, 
Ricci said he will announce the most competent ones." has wonked with the Concerts new comptroller. ticket manager. Saddler, a junior from Oakland, Commission this semester. "I assistant Student Union director Ca.. has worked on the Social worked mostly with the Uriah Heep and services commissioner later Commission during the past year. concert to see how things work,'' 
this week. He also said he will Commenting on his appointment, he explained. announce at the same time the he said, "I'm happy because it Speier commented he is ''real 
appointment of an administrative looks good for us not having to go happy" about his appointment. "I co-ordinator. Ricci explained this is through a Jot of problems we had want to get the best concerts I a new office and the person this year." can." h~ stated, noting he is 
selected to fill the position will "I want students to enjoy them­looking for a "big fall." work nHtinly on Observer coverage selves and interact in new situa­"Concerts arc a big thing to keep of Student Union and its activities. tions." Saddler emphasized. "I people happy.·· he said. He added 
Explaining why he chose to delay want to let everyone know that he thinks smaller-scale concerts arc 
the announcement of live appoint­we're ready to party." a "good thing for students." 
mL·nh, Hicci noted those he will Saddler said he plans to continue Burv. a senior with three vears' 
annoum-e later arc "staff-type the basic activities of the Social cxperfence working on the. Aca­
po~itio11~. with the exception of Commission. such as the Home­demic Commission, stated the 
Sl'rvice~ l'ommissioncr." coming and Armory dances. He main focus of the commission next 
"Some positions, like the com­also stated he wants to make the year will be to "get the type of 
mi~~ioncrs. must be tilled right off Quickie more visible. speaker of the quality and integrity 
the hat because of their nature." "It has kind of disappeared," he to attract more students." 
he continued. "Once these line pointed out. "A lot more people "We're looking to fultill the po~ition~ arc down, we t·an sec who can ride it than do. It can be more needs of students." he added. the commissio11er~ can better work of a service than it is." Saddler said Bury said he hopes to get an with." Hicci added the ncwly­he wants to get a regular work crew increase in budget to get more dw~en commissioncn, will "have so students can utilize the service prominent speakers to attract more some !>>IV" in the decisions on the more. students. He pointed out that the other ;q;pointment'>. Saddler al "' said the Social commission will conduct a student 
Ricci stated he chose to an­Commission next vcar will assume poll to lind out their preferences on 
lmuncL' the new services commis­more aetivities ai the LaFortune speakers. 
!>ioncr later than the other comrnis­Student Center. He noted the Naz He also noted the possibility of 
sinm'r!> because "a number of and Darbv's Place will be included the Academic Commission handl­
people who applied for services in thesl' ;ietivities. "We will trv to ing the films next year. 
commi.,sioner have the chance of utilize LaFortune more." he stated. Donohue. who served as cultural 
hemming as~i~tant director." He While the Social Commission will arts commissioner this semester. 
added. "I would like to till the also asumc the activities of the said she plans to maintain the 
social space committee. Saddler Cultural Arts Commission's major 
said the activities of Wacky Winter events, such as the Midwest Blues
Toudreau named Weekend and the dance marathon Festival, the Sophomore Literary 
arc "under question." "We prob­Festival. the Isis Student Gallery 
ablv won't do the dance marathon and the Collegiate Jazz Fcstivai.
Paul Harris Fellow 
bui we will do something for However, she noted there will he charity," he stated, suggesting flexibility within these activities.
l.oui-. R. Tondreau. Chairman of bringing back the basketball mara­Donohue said he appointment
thL' Ikpartment of Government at 
thon as a possible substitute. "We came as no surprise to her. "ISt. Man··., College. ha., been probably won't do Wacky Winter would have been surprised if Inamed a Paul Harris Fellow by the Weekend. It's too hard to organ­hadn't been chosen," she admit­Roseland Rotan· Club. Tondreau. 
ize." he pointed out. ted.
who according t~J a ritation from the "A lot of things can be done She noted the importance oforgani1ation. "t•xcmplilic~ the best between the (Student Union) com­interaction within Student Union.
principles of the Rotary." will have missions, Saddler said. ''I'm "Interaction has made Student$1000 donated to the Rotarv Inter­interested in doing a couple of Union a lot better." she said. "Inational Scholarship Foundation in things with the Concerts Commis­would like to see it continued andhb m11nl'. Other recipients of the sion, like an outdoor festival." imprqved. ·· award indud Fred Vaughan and 
However. Saddler noted he docs
Thomas Garvin. 
not know if the Student Union
Associated with Saint Mary's 


Classifie s
budget will permit this.
since lll51l, Tondreau was a mem­
Saddler added he would like to
ber of the Rotarv Board of Directors 
NOTICES
work with clubs and other groups
from Jll72-lll7S: During that time 
on campus. "We could help with
he served as the Board's Director 
Rugby shirts--ge11he same shirts as
their fund-raising." he said. 
1he cheerleaders in blue-gold, green gold, and red-blue for S13. Call Dave a1 277-0948. 
for International Relations 
SMC REIJGIOUS STUDID; COURSES 
Looking for a place to get away on Lake Michigan. For rent lodge and cabins during April and May. Only 30 min. from campus: Gintaras Resort. 15860 Lake Shore Rd. Union 
FORFAILI976 
211 Jesus in the New Testament 12 MWF, I MWF Weiss 
Pier, Mich. Ph. (616) 469-3298. 
Having a party? For the lowest prices on kegs and cases and free delivery, call Dave a1 277-0948. 
241 Sacraments & Christian life 10'ITI2 Reichert 
251 The Christian Tradition 1 TI'3, 2'IT4 Heaney 
Set your own hours and income selling our line of handmade Indian
271 Experiences in Christianity 9'ITI1 Malits 
jewelry. Free details, Bluebird Ma• nufacturing, 524 Bryn Mawr S.E.,
281 Religion & Art in the Christian West lMWF Heaney 
Alburqueque, N.M. 87106. 
Linda's Letters, dissertations, spe.
316 Early Christian Archeology 10MWF Weiss 
cialisls, typing al student rates, 289-5193. 
331 Contemporary Moral Issues 9MWF, 2MWF Krause 
Stereo Components, 20.40 percent discount. all quality namebrands.
381 Faith & .Hlilosophical Inquiry 3MWF Heaney 
RMS Audio, 321 S. Main, 288-1681. M F 12:00·6:00. 
420 Religious Education llMWF Janooski 
Accurate, fast typing. Hours 8 A.M. to 8 P.M .• Mrs. Donoho, 232-0746.
For SMC students, 200 level OOW'Ses fulfill oore requirements; 300-400 are electives. For ND students, 
Free puppy! 3 and-a-half months old, male, mixed breed. needs· a good home, for more information, 
200 level oount as Theo first ooW'Ses; 300-400 as Theo 
seoond OOW'Ses. 
call Lynda 7668 (9-5) or Mrs. Gardner at 272-6869 after 5. 
Morrissey Loan closes Tues., April
Registration Wed., April 7 through 14, 8:30-4:00 in Rl.ST 
13. All loans must be paid by then.
alcove, gmund floor, North Wing, Madeleva. ND 
Hours II :15-12:15. Call 7442, 8220
students nwst register in the Religious Studies Dept. for • 
or 81 OS. 
Rl.ST OOW'Ses. Order of registration will be strictly • observed; Juniors beginning W ednesday.i.. ~phorrores 
Typing-professionally done, thesis, 
• 
dissertations, resumes, term papers
beginning ThW'Sdayj f1'eshmen beginning .Niday. Identi­• •• 
Barb 259 ·4894 . 
fication will be cheCKe<I. •
•
• 

Hall presidents elected in most campus dorms 
by Karl Blette 
Late Reporter 

Hall presidential elections were held last week in most of the dorms on campus, and new officers have been busy taking over in prepara­tions for next year. 
Runoffs were necessary in seve­ral halls where no candidates received clear majorities. Candi· dates Kathy Kane and Sue Denis tied with opponents Pat Dermody and Sue Quigley in Walsh hall and a second election was won by Kane and Denis. 
Winners are listed in adjacent 


chart.  
Hall  President  
Alumni  Rich Rilcv  
Breen-Phillips  Nancy Siegler  
Cavanaugh  George Vclrich  
Dillon  Tom O'Neill  
Farlcv  Tracv Kec  
Fishc.r  Chut·k Schroer  
Flanner  Mark Eck  
Grace  Tcrrv Philhan  
Holv Cross  .loh1; O'Lcar  
Ho~·ard  Chris Hogan  
Keenan  Richard Hebert  
Lewis  Ann Thompson  
Lyons  Molly McGuire  
Morrissey  Mike Doyle  
Pangborr;  ELECTION TODAY  
St. Edward's  Wallv Evans  
Sorin  Da\'t; Bender  
Stanford  Kel'fc Montgomery  
Walsh  Kathy Kane  
Zahm  Virll'e Lavoi  


Hughes, recluse since SO's, dies en route to Houston 
later, in 1972. he left for the
(continued from page 1) Bahamas amid similar secrecv, also resses and was seen often in Los at night. · Angeles, Las Vegas, Houston and Nevada ofticials said privatl'ly New York. they understood he was disenchan­But he had alwavs been known ted with his investments in the as painfully shy.' and in the state and would never return. mid-1950's he simply dropped out Aides had said he intended to spent of sight. He maintained a walled the rest of his life tht•re when he estate in Los Angeles, hotel suites arrived. in various hotels. But his comings Hughes: a slender. good-looking and goings were always in secret. 6-looter wtth a neat mustache in He arrived in Las Vegas by train, his latest photos, was reputed to he at a wav station outside of town. in one of the world's wealthiest mt·n. the dead of the night. He was He and Jean Paul Getty, the oil' hustled in secrecy to the top floor of man, were often ranked one-two­a "Strip" hotel-casino. Four years take your pick. 
Extra, Extra: Las I Chance Armory Dance tickets on sale at SU ticket 

FOR SALE office. Get 'em while they last. '72 Fiat 124 Spider, 287·3059, ask FOR RENT 
tor Bob. 
LOST AND FOUND house and apartments, available for ' June or Sept. 
Milliken Rentals, 282·2069 233-5633 

Found: on shuttle bus, yellow tinted 
eye glass lens. Contact bus driver Summer houses and rooms for rent, after 6 P.M. real close to campus, furnished, ridiculously reasonable, 233-2613 or 
Found: one Indianapolis high school 232-7263. ring. Call Jack 3597. 
5 room house, two bedrooms for PERSONALS rent, fenced yard, gas furnace, garage, fire place near Notre Dame, The John C. Holmes tor President one block from St. Joseph Hospital, Committee, in coordination with the 
233 5991. Hillcrest Road Barbeque Club, an nounces its mid·week exercise in 
Summer Rentals, 4 bedrooms, 5 libation. Open to new members, call bedroom house, 1 bedroom apt., 3 289 8014, ask for Pipe. bedroom apt., all furnished, near ND very reasonable, 2~4·2626. Hi Wrathalwray, 
I hear you dance devine. Thanks for For rent next school term, 5 bed· a wonderful evening. rooms, 2 baths, all furnished, porch, K. Lee 
off-street parking, near N D 9 month lease, 234·2626. Bahama Mamas and Gents, the old tour director says: Bahama Night al For rent: 518 So. Falcon St., the Senior Bar tonight 8-12 p.m. completely furnished 6 room house, 
,. 3 bedroom, basement, drive-in, 
Dear Long Lost Lovers,closed yard. $150 a month, plus i.e. Mugs D'Aquila, Mary Murphy,
security and utilities, call 233-4425, Nora Finneran,approved by Off. campus Housing. 

How do you make a whipped cream float? Take 3 SMC chicks, whip cream them and through them in the4,5,6 bedroom houses, completely lake. Love, The Boysfurnished, extremely nice, real close P.S. We hope your wet dreams came to campus. Sept. 1976, 9 month true. it's not nice to fool 1he Alumnilease, 233-2613 or 232 7263. 
Boys. 
WANTED 

For Bill:
Jobs for seniors with skills in The bachelor life is throughBusiness, Education, Engineering, To a beautiful lass it's true,Languages, Fisheries, Biological His life it was lackingsciences, and Law. There's a job for But now he'll be flackingyou as a Peace Corps volunteer. 

And in K .C. we'll all have a few.
Talk to recruiters today at Memorial 

The Best Man and .A.ssoc . 
Library. 
Tuesday, April 6, 1976

8· the observer 

t 
r Notre Dame athletics,Title IX: ! equal opportunity for women 
by Eileen O'Grady Women's Sports Editor 

In the recent Chicago Tribune article, "Here Come the Smick Chicks," the author claimed that Notre Dame has recently stepped up its women's athletic program because of pressure from the federal government in view of the recent Title IX ruling. 
According to this law, unless schools provide equal opportunity for both men and women in all areas of education, including ath­letics, the government will take away federal funds invested in the ~chool. even in areas outside those being legislated against. Secondary and post-secondary schools have three years to comply. 
Athletic administration sources, ~uch as Fr. Edmund Joyce, execut­in· University vice president in du1rge of athletic affairs, and Astrid Hotvcdt, coordinator of women's athletics, deny feeling 
c: any pressure from the federal government and claim they would have developed women's athletics a~ they have with or without the law. Title IX is part of the education amendments first proposed in 1972 bv Sen. Birch Bavh (D.. Ind.). It v.:as not enforced ·until 1974 when the Health, Education and Welfare regulations concerning the law were published. Part of these regulations include what the department looks for when it considers whether a school is providing equal opportunities in athletics: whether the sports and levels of competition offered by the school accommodate the interests and abilities of both sexes, equity in providing equipment, supplies, scheduling of games and practices, and coaching. 
Joyce called the law "very ambiguous,'' but stressed Notre Dame is complying with "the spirit of the law and hopefully the letter of the law." "We're in a process of normal development and we hope that the women's sports will have a very healthy evolution," he added. 
But Joyce objected to the inter­ference of the law into private schools. "I for one can't figure out what possible justification there is for the federal government getting in the athletic program business and dictating what we should do when they don't spend a penny on it," he stated. "It's a serious encroachment, I think, on private freedom." 
''The key to everything is whether you have any money. The government just ignores that is­sue." he continued. "This is why if it ever comes to court, I don't see how any of these things are going to be upheld." 
Joyce stressed that he hopes the women of the University and the athletic board "would not be at odds" over the ruling. "What we'd like to do is have a natural, normal growth in women's sports.'' 
Women's athletics right now include five separate club sports: golf. basketball, fencing, tennis and field hockey; with women also participating in the already estab­lished clubs of crew, sailing and skiing. The women's tennis and fencing teams are presently apply­ing for varsity status. each for the second time. 
Hotvedt claimed the basic prob­lem between the athletic adminis­tration and the women's teams is the different interpretations of how the teams will evolve from club to varsity status. 
Hotvedt described both a high intensity varsity, where the teams would compete against only the top teams in the country and have complete backing of sports infor­mation, sports medicine and coach­ing, and a low intensity varsity which would only have minimum support. 
"I would hope that in ten years we would have a high intensity women's varsity," Hotvedt stated. "But right now, if the athletic staff remains the same, women's varsity status could only be minimal, because of an increased work load on an already worked staff. There­fore we will need increased per­sonnel.'' 
Part of the question concerning women's varsity status is whether the teams will receive some schol­arships. 
On this issue the law states: ''To the extent that a recipient awards athletic scholarships or grants-in­aid, it must provide reasonable opportunities to the number of students of each sex participating in interscholastic or intercollegiate athletics." 
Joyce called the question of scholarships "a very thorny one." "We would do the same thing (give 

Tennis, along with fencing, is applying for varsity status for the second time. 
scholarships) for the women if they money is coming from." sity sports. "We may get down to would have a sport that would fill He also added that in recent the point where we have no the stadium with 60,000 people," years the University has reduced scholarships at all unless the sport he explained. "Otherwise that's the number of scholarships for the itself can engender the money." he the only place that scholarship men's non-revenue producing var-said. 



Notre Dame netters down DePaul and Cincinnati; defeated by IU 
by Tom Powanda over DePaul at home on Friday. From the outset, the netters took The Notre Dame tenni~s team control as they swept all the picked up two victories this past doubles matches. Randy Stehlik weekend while suffering one de­and captain Mike O'Donnell feat. teamed together in first doubies to Starting off on the right foot, the beat Tom Tranter and Mike Mur­Irish picked up an easy 7-2 victory phy in two sets 6-1, 6-4. Brian 
Fred Herbst~:==========================================;;=======:::::::::::::::::::::::::::=:=:=:::::::::=:=:=:::::::::::=================:::=:::=================================================================================================================== 
The Irish Eye 

The major league b.1scball season is upon us. The !ega' hassles have 
been put aside (at least for the moment) and it's time to "play ball." 
A~ u~ual the National League will be boasting the top ·cams in the 
major league~ with Cincinnati. Los Angeles, St. Louis, t\ew York. 
l'ithhurgh and Philadelphia all being legitimate contender~ for the 
pennant. 

So coming off an "imprc~sive" showing in my predictions on tile NCAA 
tournament. here arc The Irish Eye's pick~ in the two National L·~ague 
di\isional race~ and the league playoffs. 
West: As ha~ been the case in recent historv. Cincinnati and "Los 
\ngelc~ can be expected to battle for divisiona' honors. San Francisco 
<lnd San Diego have improved considerably and figme to be the best of the 
re~l. while Atlanta and Houston just waste away. The way they'll finish: 
Cindnnati: The National League hasn't had a repeat pennant winner 
'ince St. Loui~ did it in 1967 and 1968. Even repeating in their own 
di\·i-;ion figures to be tougher for the Reds, who won't win 108 games this 
'ca~on and have a healthy Dodger club to compete with. Still. the Reds 
arc an offensive machine with excellent defense. Their pitching i~ we<!k 
Irom thestandpointof starters. but the Reds have a strong young bullpen. 
Look for the Reds to usc the bats of Bench. Perez and the rest to win the 
division in a close race. 

Los Angeles: It has to be frustrating for Walter Alston and the Dodgers to 
he· in the same division as the Reds. Over the past three years the 
lh1dg-.:-r'> have been the second most successful team in the majors, and 
tilL'\ 1)11!~· have one pennant and division title. The acquisition cf Dusty 
Ba"-er will help the Dodgers. Baker gives Alston the speed that he lacked 
11 ith .lirmm Wynn. and speed is what Alston's clubs thrive on. If Tommy 
.l<lhn can make a comeback. look for the Dodgers to rely on sound defense, 
~trong pitching (even without Andy Messersmith) and speed as they did in 
the mid-60'~. If the Reds stumble in the least bit. Los Angeles will win the 
di\·i-;ion. 

San Francisco: The Giants are quietly building a good club. Bobuy 
!VIun:er doc!>n't do anything to impress you. bl t somehow he always hits 
..lOO. Along with Willie Montanez and Gary Matthews the Giant:. have the 
nucleus of a strong attack. Add this to a pitching staff of fine yo wg arms 
led b~· John Montefusco and you have an up and coming team. Ti1e Giants 
\\ill be vastly improved, but not enough to seriously challenge either 
Cincinnati or Los Angeles. But next year is another story. 
San Diego: After six straight years in the basement, the Padres made 
great strides last season moving into fourth place. You've probably never 
heard of John Grubb. Dave Winfield and Gene Locklear. but they can hit 
a baseball. Coupled with 20-game v. inner Randy Jones, they ~ake the 
Padre~ a respectable team -but that's about all. 
• Houston: Once one of the most promi.-ing young tea.ms in the league a 
, kw years ago the Astrmcan 'tpromise anything but aheadacheto their fans now. The stat that best sums up the Asti'"lS is that their pitchers allowed more walks than any team in the majors. and walked more men than they !>truck out last season. 
Atlanta: In two years the Braves have managed to trade away their three .. best players (Hank Aaron, Ralph Garr and Dusty Baker) and that's 'lot 
something to be proud of. The Braves can thank God for the Detroit Tigers, because if it weren't for the Tigers the Braves would be the worst team in 
major league baseball (maybe the worst in the minors. too). East: The West may have the two strongest teams in the league but there's no doubt that the East is the most competitive division. St. Louis. Pittsburgh New York , and Philadelphia are all realistic contenders fur the di\·ision crown. Chicago is fighting its way to respectability and Montreal should give up. but even with the two weak sisters the East figures to be a dogfight. The way they'll tinish: Philadelphia: When the Phillies traded for Dave Cash three years ago they began building for this season and a divisional title. In his two years with the club, he has gotten over 200 hits (leading the league last year) and hit over .300 each season. More importantly. however. he's the team leader and the man who makes the Phillies go. Along with the Utica. N.Y. native. Larry Bowa. Mike Schmidt and Dick Allen form the best infield in the majors. The outticld of Ollie Brown, Gary Maddox and Greg Luzioski is a fine one. The acquisition of Jim Katt to go along with Steve Carlton. Jim Lonborg. Tug McGraw, Tom Underwood and some other good young arms gives the Phils a pitching staff that'll be tough. But despite everything the ·Phils have going for them, it'll be a rugged battle. Still. look for Dave Cash to lead the Phillies to their first post-season play since 1950. New York: When you have pitching like the Mets. you can do a lot to cover up your weak hitting. Already possesing one of the strongest staffs in baseball with Tom Seaver. John Matlack and dependable Jerry Koosman. the Mets added Mickey Lolich to batter themselves even more. But in doing so. they weaken themselves at their weakest spot. The departure of Rusty Staub leaves a void that the Mets can't fill-offense. A~ strongastheir pitching is, the Mets won't be able to win the division without some kind of hitting. But is the Mets find some offense, just a little. they could b·~ tough to beat. Pittsburgh: Know11 for their hitting, the Bucs lost over 100 hits last season from the previous year. Combine that with one of the most inconsistent pitching staffs in baseball and one of the worst defenses and the Pirates 
v. ill have their troubles this season. If AI Oliver, Richie Zisk and Dave Parker can all have good years the Pirates could make a run at the divisional flag. But that's the only way. St. Louis: The Cardinals have a formidable attack with Ted Simmons, Reggie Smith, Lou Brock and Bake McBride. However, Bob Gibson is gone and so is the Cardinal pitching staff. To make matters worst, the Cards have stone hands. But in the up and down East, the Cardinals have a shot is they can pull things together. Chicago: The Cubs are slowly but surely building a contender. The outfield of Rick Mondav, Jerrv Morales, and Jose Cardenal is an excellent one with Andre Thornion leading the infield as does Ray Burris wiht the pitching staff. This will be another rough season for the Cubs, but al least there's hope for Chicago fans in the future. Montreal: The Expos can't hit. they can't pitch and they can't field. The major competitron for the Exposwon't be with the Cubs for fifth place, it'll be with Atlanta and Detroit for the worst record in the majors. Pennant Winner: Cincinnati is experienced in post-season play. They're awesome offensively and they'll be tough to beat. But Philadelphia had been waiting for a pennant a long time and the acquisition of Jim Kaat and the play of Dave Cash will give it to them. 
Hainline and Tony Bruno then coupled to defeat Steve Wild and Joe Habes in the number two slot 
6-1, 7-5. A clean sweep of the doubles competition was had as Marty Horan and Dave Wheaton of the Irish soundly defeated Mike Farrell and Mark Wild 6-2. 6-3. 
In the singles competition, Steh­lik, playing number one for the Irish, defeated Tranter 6-3, 7-6. 
Horan in the number four slot easily beat Farrell 6-1. 6-1. Bruno took three sets to overcome Habcs 
6-J. 3-6. 6-1 and Wheaton closed out the match by beating Wild 6-J, 6-1. 
On Saturday the Irish took to the road as they traveled east to Cincinnati. Equaling the score from 
the previous day. the Irish came awav with another 7-2 victory. Aga.in all three doubles teams won 
with Stehlik and O'Donnell taking three sets to defeat Jim Gray and AI Matthews 7-6, 3-6, 6-4. Hainline 
and Bruno also slipped by in three sets beating Scott Irwin and Tim Praderades .6-3, 2-6, 7-6. Wheaton 
and Horan took just two sets for victory as they soundly defeated Steve Kohls and Mike Hager 6-3, 6-4. 
Closing out the weekend, the Irish traveled to Bloomington to take on the Hoosiers of Indiana. 
The travel and lack of rest proved too much for the Notre Dame netters as they were beaten by the 
Hoosiers 6-3. Hainline came back and showed no signs of a spill he suffered in his singles loss in the 
DePaul match. He came up with one of the two Irish victories in singles with a 6-4, 6-3 decision over 
Peter Osler. Producing the other victory in singles was Wheaton. in his number six slot he beat Tom 
LaSalle in -three sets S-7, 7-6, 6-2. The remaining victory for the Irish came from Stehlik and O'Donnell in 
the first doubles position. They defeated Tim McGloklin and Tim Crew in identica] sets 6-4, 6-4. 
The victories were the sixth and seventh of the season for the Irish while the defeat gave them their 
fourth blemish. With a 7-4 record Notre Dame now awaits the Uni­versity of Wisconsin (Oshkosh) th:s 
afternoon at home. The match will begin at 3:00 p.m. and will take place outside at the Courtney Tennis Center weather permitting. 





