
Fr. Griffin  
to say mass  
on Feast Day  
Vol. XI, No.27  an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's  Wednesday, October 6, 1976  Father Robert Griffin, Uni­versity chaplain, will celebrate a mass at the Grotto on Thursday, Oct. 7, at 10:30 p.m. Griffin is saying the mass in honor of the Feast of the Holy Rosary. The Glee Club will perform at the evening cele­bration.  

Digger Phelps, ND Varsity 
Basketb;III Coach, talked to stu­
dents in the basement of Fisher 
Hall last night, discussing topics 
such as scholastic adjustment 
and the importance of academics 
for athletes, the athletic role at 
Notre Dame, and recruiting. 
[Photo by Leo Hansen] 
Another crisis ends; pigs to get garbage 
by Thomas O'Neil Editor-in-Chief 
Notre Dame administrators and student representatives agreed on the Student Congress compromise yesterday which allows George Brown to resume pick-up of dining hall food waste to feed his farm livestock. 
Thomas Mason, vice-president for business affairs at Notre Dame noted that Brown will be notified by Edmund Price, director of Notre 

Dame· Food Services, as to when he body vice-president and Tom So­may resume the waste pick-up and ma. chairman of the food advisory as to guidelines agreed upon by council and director of special university and student government projects for student government, officials at yesterday's meeting. attended the meeting and found 
The guidelines accepted at the the resolution acceptable. meeting were: Gassman, however. noted that 
•that 
Brown will collect only the the Brown incident was ori'lv one of food waste from the evening meals many student concerns i~volving at the dining halls; food service management. He 

•he 
will have the necessary legal mentioned personnel problems as permits and licenses; an example of other student con­

•he 
will pick up the food wastes cerns. between 7:00 and 7:30pm from the Mason suggested that these dining hall docks. problems be documented by stu­


"We will use our best judgement dent representatives and sent to and out best effort to accomodate Price or himself for scrutiny. Mr. Brown," Mason said. ·'The system here operates on the 
The compromise agreed upon by Happy Family concept," he told administrators and student govern­the student representatives, "at ment officials was the result of a the same time there's a natural conflict between students and food hierarchy in terms of problem-sol­service management over whether ving. Brown should be allowed to dispose '·Some of these problems might of left-over food by feeding it to his be solved by food service manage­livestock or whether the food ment," he continued. "If not, we should be disposed of by sanitary would like to see those written disposals. as Price argued. down with student recommenda­
Student Congress drafted a com­tions for us to study." promise proposal last week and Price did not attend the meeting. sent it to Price and Fr. Hesburgh. Commenting on it and the outcome At yesterday's meeting which in­he said. ''I'm glad to see that the cluded Bro. Just Paczesny, vice­compromise was acceptable to all president for student affairs and concerned. As far as I'm con­Bro. Kieran Ryan, assistant vice­cerned. Brown can begin his pick­president for business affairs, the up immediately." proposal was accepted by univer­''I'm in the process of writing a sity administrators with the condi­letter to him now. I only ask that I tional guidelines. can meet with him soon, before he 
Mike Gassman, student body resumes the pick-up," Price ad­president, Mike Casey, student ded. 

Last night's HPC meeting in which members discussed the council's place in student govern­ment. According to Chairman J. P. Russell, tlle 
HPC searches for identity, watchdog role possible 
The  byTomByme Senior Staff Reporter Hall Presidents council  or agenda, no hall evaluations nor established procedures," he said. "We're a lot more organized, capable of dealing with added  to their halls to assess support for a measure recommending laundry reform. The proposal will be voted on. next week.  
(HPC)  met  last  night  and  con­ problems,"  Russell  continued.  
ducted  a  lengthy discussion  con­ ''The  question  of  what  we  are  Breen-PhllUps  
cernil!g the future role the group  doesn't  come  up  until  we're  wins Rockne  
should play in student government.  organized."  
The action was partly prompted by comments made by Dillon Hall President Tom O'Neill at the recent meeting of the Student Body Congress, in which he called for the abolition of the HPC. and the creation of a representative body to oversee student government. The issue was introduced with the report of the Standing Review Committee, presented by Walsh Hall President Kathy Kane. Speaking for the committee, she alluded to O'Neill's proposal,  Breen-Phillips Hall President Nancy Siegler countered the argu­ments of O'Neill and others by supporting the present status of the HPC. "We draw our power from being a separate entity," she stated. "It makes us equal. I don't think it's our role to be dealing with all kinds of problems. There are com­missions to do that.'' Kane reported that Student Body President Mike Gassman would be "eager to cooperate" with the HPC  In other business. Breen-Phillips was awarded the. Rockne Trophy for the month of September, sig­nifying the hall with the top activities program for that month. Russell commented the competi­tion for the prize had been vig­orous, and the originality of act­ivities sponsored by Breen-Phillips had earned them the trophy. Finishing second was Keenan, followed by Farley and Lewis. The council was also briefed by Executive Coordinator Keefe  
noting, "It's our job to start an investigation about what we're here for." She urged the council to determine "what areas we should..cover. O'Neill remarked that the HPC had little defined power, and advocated a role as a represent­ative body for the students, in order to supervise policy decision made by student government. "Do you want policy shaped by indi­viduals or by representatives?" he asked. "In terms of direct power, ours is the same as any student government commission." Sorin Hall President Dave Bender endorsed an alteration of the student government constitu­tion to allow the council to "review policy of student government.'' He disagreed with past HPC chairman Elton Johnson's notion of a "watchdog" body, nor formally affiliated with student government.  to establish a better working rela­tionship. Representation needed O'Neill reiterated his stand that a representative body is needed to '• discuss policy,'' which he asserted was now made by a small group of individuals within the student government office. Citing ·a "total lack of leadership" from past student body presidents, he indicated that the handling of the laundry situation was an example of the problem. "A really unified body could get the research done in a matter of days," stated O'Neill, relating that problem would probably not be cleared up now until January. "I think the reason they're not getting anything done now is because there's no heat on them," he maintained. "That's why a  Montgomery on the procedure for allocation of HPC money to each hall. Requests for funds by each hall will be reviewed by the budget committee, and each hall will send a representative to appear before the committee and answer in­quiries concerning their requests. "We're trying to be mutually beneficial to all," Montgomery pledged. Final recommendations of the budget committee will be voted on next week. Also present for the meeting was Student Union Director Ken Ricci and Rick Delaney, who are re­sponsible for the Quickie bus service. In response to a complaint by Sorin Hall President Bender, Delaney explained the failure of the Quickie last week. "We tried to schedule it to run last week," he said. "We had two buses lined up but they were used to go to the Grateful Dead concert.  
More  representative body is needed." Lewis Hall President Anne  It will fun this Friday." Charlie Moran of the  Student  
organized  Thompson  stated,  however,  the  Union also outlined plans for the  
HPC "could put on  pressure" to  Free University this year. Offering  


Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh accepts a tee-shirt from three Sorin Current HPC Chairman J. P. solve the laundry problem. "We no-credit minicourses to "anyone freshmen in his office. The tee-shirt reads "God made Sorin Russell remarked that the council's should work with tom (Soma). I who wants to take them," the Number One," referring to the hall's role in the development of progress thus far this year had think if he's going to get anywhere school is now seeking teachers for the university. The students originally planned to have the shirt read made possible consideration of he needs us," she explained. "Our "anything anyone can think of," "Sorin is Notre Dame," but dropped the idea in favor of this one, what role they should play. "Last role is to put pressure on to get Moran said, adding that a cata­which was a good idea according to Hesburgh who thought the other year at this time there was no HPC things done, not to do them." logue of the courses to be held will might have been "presumptuous." [Photo by Leo Hansenl constitution, no p1..blished minutes The presidents agreed to return be published later in the year. 
Wednesday, October 6, 1976
the observer 

r-News Briefs--------.. 
t==::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::== National 

Atomic fallout 

WASHINGTON-Slight radioactive fallouts from a recent Chinese atomic explosion are sprinkling parts of the eastern United States, but a federal nuclear official said yesterday there is no immediate need for concern. Reports of fallout came from federal and state agencies in at least seven states: Pennsylvania, New Jersey, New York. South Carolina, Maryland, Delaware, and Connecticut. 

Excess of contributions 

Republican Senate challenger Richard Lugar was identified Sund_ay by Common Cause as one of four Indiana political candidates to have received campaign contributions from the American Medical Association in excess of federal limits. Federal law limits the contribution by a committee to any single candidate for federal office to $5,000 for any given election. 
~On Campus Today_-----..~ 
3:25 pm ­
4:30 pm ­
5:15pm 6:30 pm 6:30pm 
7:00 pm --
-
lecture, "the static dielectric constant of wate;·" by dr. james w. kress, ii, post-doctoral research associate with dr. james carberry in u.s. -ussr exchange program. rm. 269, chem. eng. 
seminar, "host-parasite interactions in mycoplasma infections" by dr. michael gabridge, dept. of microbiology, university of illinois, galvin auditor­ium. coffee at 4:15 
mass, world hunger coalition, all faster invited. 
walsh hall 
banquet, founders day dinner for SOllth bend alumnae of smc. smc dining hall 
seminar, career information, "the career potential of 
· liberal arts students in the job market" by ron higgins, manager, corporate employment, st. regis co. new york. rm. 353 madeleva memorial 
-meeting, aeisec, 1st floor, hayes healy 
7:oopm -meeting, nd-smc young democrats, rm 2-d Iafortune. election of officers tonight 
7:00pm -meeting, celtic society, lyons hall, basement kitchen 
\ 
7:00pm -·lecture, "the mozambique revolution: one year after independence" by dr. william minter, correspon­dence african news service teacher, frelima educa­tional system. area studies reading rm., 12th floor in library 
7:30 pm -american scene, "the philosophy of play" by sheila o'neill gi_bson, '60, college of the holy names, oak 
cal if.  carroll hall  
7 30 &  
10 pm  - film, "ugetsu," eng. aud.  tickets $1  

8:15 pm -concert, turan-mirza kamal, classical guitar. tickets 
8:30 pm ­
12:00 mid 
$1 at door. library aud. 
presidential debate, viewed at carroll hall, madeleva classroom building [smc]. followed by refreshments and discussion 
party, in celebration of the 3rd yr. of darby's place and the 39th of griff. basement, Iafortune 
w



ERRATUM 
I 
The Kansas--Point Blank concert 
1­
NO
will be held on Sunday, Oct. 17th, and not the 27th, as previously reported in the Observer, in the Morris Civic Auditorium. 
SMC 
THEATRE
*The Observer 
O'LAUGHLJN 
AUDITORIUM
Night Editor: Chris Smith 
Asst. Night Editor: Frank 
Kebe 
layout Staff: Rosemary Mills 




Students have right to silence 
by Maey Ann Layden Staff Reporter 

Students can now choose to be heard before their rector or their hall judicial board on hall matters, announced Bob Bode, judicial co­ordinator and Chuck Biladeau, assistant judicial coordinator at the first meeting of the judicial board chairmen last night. 
Bode emphasized the need to make this choice known to all students. The Student Life Council approved the idea last spring, and it was written into the revised Student Judicial Board Manual. Before this change, the rector handled all cases and the student had no choice. 
According to the manual, a student or staff member writes the disciplinary ,report following an incident and files it with the rector or a "properly designated sub­stitute." The rector then meets with the person against whom the report was filed to correct dis­crepancies between the student account and the written report. Then the new administrative pro­cedures state that, ''the student 
' will be offered the hearing agent options and respond in writing to indicate a choice. If the student opts for the judicial board, the 
SMC freshmen to vote today 

Voting for St. Mary's freshman officers will take place Thursday, Oct. 7 in the LeMans Hall lobby from 10 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. The voting will continue from 4:30p.m. .to 6:30 p.m. at the St. Mary's dining hall. Students are urged to vote at one of the locations. 
CDC sponsors career lecture 
Ron Higgins, manager of St. Regis Paper Co. New York, will speak on the "Career potential of Liberal Arts Students in the Job Market" tonight at 6:30 p.m. in Room 353, Madeleva Hall at St. Mary's. 
The lecture, which is open to everyone, is co-sponsored by the St. Mary's Career Development Ceflter, the Notre Dame Placement Bureau and St. Mary's Business Club. 
l ht> Obst>rver IS publ1sht>d Monday through Fr1day and wPPkly dunng thP summPr SPssion, extPpt during the exam and vacation pertods The Observer is publ1shed by studPnts of the Un1versity of Notre Dame and St Mary.'s College Subsmptions may be purchasPd for $20 per year ($10 per semester) from The Obser­ver, Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 Second class postagE> pa1d, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press All reproductiOn rights are reserved 


Heartbreak House 
G. B. Shaw's prophetic comedy. 

Oct. 1, 2, 7, 8, 9 at 8':00 p.m.. 
All seats $2.50 ($2 Std-Fac"Staff) Special Rate 4 P!ays
Phone: 284-4176 

Editorial layout: John 
THE LOUDSPEAKER
Murphy Biblical Consultant: Rev. 
CASSETTES-8 -TRACKS LP's $5.29
Robert Griffin w. Stempel Nichols 

COMPLETE STEREO SYSTEM
Sports layout: Ray O'Brien Typists: Martha Fanning, 
Ideal for your dorm room 
Leigh Tunacan, Mel Celeste, Anne Giere 
INCLUDES 
Night Controller: Don Roos 
KLH 32's, Sherwood~ BSR or Garrard
Day Editor: Joe Gill Copy Reader: Pat Cole 
Ad layout: Pat Russell Photographer: Leo Hansen 
.A.<;~9~~ (ro~,.Ha~i~ Sh~~~ .~ear Fat Wally~. 
rector will contact the chairperson of the board." 
Now students also have the right to remain silent in judicial board hearings. A student must be 
proven guilty as in a criminal court. 
Bode· stressed that judicial board members inform students, especi­ally freshmen, of the purpose and functions of the judicial board. The judicial board chairmen also pro­posed having regular meetings to discuss new services that the judicial board could provide. 
This year, the judicial board will also run the hall, class officer, student government and Student Life Council (SLC) elections in connunction with the Ombudsman. The judicial board will enforce election rules and run the hall ballot boxes, but the Ombudsman will still establish election pro­cedures and count the votes. 
Another new provision in the judicial board manual is the selec­tion process which recommends that residents should be appointed 
Guitarist to play 
Classical guitarist Turan-Mizra Kamal, hailed by many critics as the next Segovia, will be presented by the Notre Dame Music Depart­ment in concert tonight at 8: 15 
p.m. Tickets for the Memorial Library Auditorium event will be available at the door and are priced at $1. 

The 23-year-old Kamal is Russ­ian Tatar by origin and Spanish in education and training. His teach­ers have included Segovia, Ortega and Pujol in Spain, and John Williams and Julian Bream in Great Britian. The New York Times described Kamal in a recent review "an artist showing the instincts of a sophisticated musi­cian, especially in his sensitive probing of the Baroque." 
The Notre Dame concert will· include music of the Elizabethan Lutenists, John Dowland and Daniell Batchelar, the Baroque and classical music of Bach and Fer­nando Sor, and the lively Spanish and Latin-American music of 
Society store.
Ponce, Barrios and Albeniz. 

--=---­
MEMBER AMERICAN GEM SOCIETY (r~-,)
FAST ~ 
1




TY~~~r~TER J 
v.~.!ttP,~N~:{f,.co. 
lJiJJJIWJuiJ ..... 7totdJeS_")fi~:elrlJ 
CC>IIvemen' Credit Term• · 
2915 
Mishawaka Ave. 234-2919 
Cinema 77 presents: . Mizoguchi's Venice Film Festival Winner 


UGETSU 
Tues. and Wed. OcL 5,6 7:30 & 10:00 Eng. Aud. $1. Patrons free. 

PLUS PARTS, 
MOST CARS 
SPECIALISTS IN ENGINE TUNE-UP, BRAKES, AIR·CONDITIONING 
Yz BLOCK SOUTH OF MISHAWAKA K-MART 
WiSH 


259-6391
8ANKAMERICARO 

OPEN MON.-SAT. 8-5
w;w 
to the hall board for the length of 
their stay in the hall "in order to promote continuity of polic~ .and procedure, and to foster a sptnt of competency." 
The following students are the 1976-77 hall judicial board chairmen: Alumni, Mike Mullen; Badin, Norma Reyes; Breen­Phillips, Kathy Horwath; Cavan­augh, Bill Murray; Dillon, Bill Carmichael; Farley, Judy Rupprecht; Fisher, Pat Coveny; Flanner, Peter Arden; Holy Cross, Jim Bielunas; Howard, Jay Gendron; Keenan, Rudy Morales; Lewis, Robin Jenkins; Lyons, Adelia Malvezzi; Morrissey, Glen Sturm; Pangborn, Jim Isley; St. Edward's, Guy Wroble; Sorin, Mark Tovey; Stanford, Jim O'Hara; Walsh, Sue Gretkowski; and Zahm, Kevin Butler. 
'i)ont trust to luck 
An Ordinary 58 cut Diamond 

... when buying fine jewelry. Know your jeweler... and know him well by lhe emblem only selecled, pro­. fessionally trained jewelry experts may display-that of the American Gem Soc1ety. This proves your jcwcle.r cared enough about his reputation to undertake a study of diamonds and colored stones. It also means, that you receive full value for every purchase you make at a Member American 6em 

Wednesday, October 6, 1976 the observer 
Candor expected 
by Richard E. Meyer Associated Press Writer 
SAN FRANCISCO (AP) -Like gamblers studying their hole cards, President Ford and Jimmy Carter spent debate eve yesterday weigh­ing how blunt they can be in their foreign affairs face-off without inviting international misunder­standing of U.S. policy. 
The world will be watching when the two contenders for the presi­dency meet in the second round of their Great Debate, at 9:30pm EDT tonight in this city's Palace of Fine Arts. All networks wil broadcast the confrontation. 
Foreign diplomats by the score will cable home their interpreta­tions of Ford and Carter positions on international affairs and nation­al defense. As important to the candidates, American voters will carry th eir own impressions to the polls. 
For each contender, the gamble is t? show enough strength in foreign and defense policy to win the debate without being blunt enough to endanger the fragile esoterica and euphemisms upon which U.S. foreign understandings are built. 
Carter, who boned up in seclu­sion at the Sheraton Palace Hotel has said he'll be more direct in hi~ attack on Ford than he was during their first debate on Sept. 23. He has indicated that he expects the President to be more forthright, too. 


SLC reports progress 
by Joe Gill from now on, executive sessions will be held only by a majority vote
Staff Reporter of the members, and said that they would occur rarely. 
The Student Life C.ouncil (SLC) .Pitt Club meeting opened yesterday with progress reports from individual sponsoring committee chairman and a promise to continue committee work im­chartered bus 
mediately. The Pittsburgh Club will sponsor
Planning and Policy Committee a chartered bus agter the OregonChairman Ed Van Tassel spoke of game, October 16. The bus will the Co-ed Housing Committee. 
leave from the CCE at 5:00 pmsaying it will . ·"finish off Saturday, Oct. 16. 
its work." 
Reservations will be taken on 
''We have surveyed the students Thursday, October 7 in the LaFor­and are thinking of surveying the 
tune Lobby at 6:30 pm. One way parents, the rectors and members trip is $15 and round truip bus fare ofthe administration," Van Tassel is $30. Payment in full must be stated. He also said his committee 
made with reservation. For more would explore the area of academic information call 7443. 


selection of University Judicial Board members, and an evaluation 

Freestvler Wavne Wong 
and discussion of the SLC as the primary concern of her committees. 


Thursday. Oct. 7, 8 pm
Campus Life Committee Chair­man Pete Haley said his committee 

THE ELKS LODGE is still in the planning stages and hoped to review the reports and 

3535 McKinley Ave. 
minutes from last year to get the committee started. A motion passed last week that set up a ten minute "executive 

Tickets Available {j) tQost
session'' at the beginning of each meeting was changed yesterday 


at the door 



~company
after the planned ten minutes stretched into 45 minutes. Mike 

$1 DONATION 100 Center Mishawaka
Casey, Chairman of the. SLC, said honesty. 
Off-Campus Committee Chair­man John Steinham said his com­mittee talked primarily of "the problem of communication with off-campus students." , He sug­gested setting up campus infor­mation boards at various s-ites in SouthBend, organizing an off-cam­pus newsletter, and holding a town meeting for all Notre Dame and St. Rmary's off-·campus students. 
Rules and Regulations Chairman Sally Duffy cited work on . the 
PRESENTING 




to dom_inate next debate 
"I think it will be a much more free-whelling, much more aggres­sive exchange,'' Carter said during preparation at home in Plains, Ga., before arriving here Monday. "I have more of a sense of equality, of 
aggression  as  a  debatiflg  oppon­ 
ent."  
Ford  spent  yesterday  at  the  

home of attorney John Sutro, a member of an old Bay Area family and chairman of Ford's northern California primary campiagn. His only public appointment was with Republican U.S. Senate candidate 
S.l. Hayakawa to talk about Califor­nia politics. 
Ford's press secretary, Ron Nes­sen, has said the President will carry inhibitions into the debate arena because his every work ''will 

Frosh to receive midterm grades 
by Gerry Delgado Staff Reporter 
This year marks the change in the freshman year from the previ­ous system of deficiency reports to a mid-semester grading system. 
Most of ·the problems occured because "only a very small percen­tage of professors would actually gi give out deficiency reports," accor­ding to Dr. Emil T. Hofman, dean of the Freshman Year of Studies. Hofman mentioned instances of freshmen not knowing of their progress in a course until they received a D or F grade on the final report card. 
Emphasizing the importance of freshmen contributing to the teach­ing-learning process and the sub­mission of work, Hofman said, "These conditions point out weak­nesses and strengths to young people at a crucial time in their education. The new system will serve primarily as a guide to the student while in the freshman vear and will not become a part of his or her permanent record." 
The new system should encour­age the teachers to help the students to get involved in the courses, while serving as a guide or 
evaluation of the student's abilities in the course. Members of last year's Freshman ADvisory Coun­cil, Hofman said, "reported that many of last year's freshmen thought that meaningful mid-sem­ester grades would provide relief rather than added tension." 
When asked of h is expectations of the new system, Hofman men­tioned three points. First, it should encourage the student's involve­ment in the courses. It should also enable the student to recog­nize any deficiencies or problems the student may be having in the course and to take steps to correct them. Finally one should also see an improvement in grades. 
Hofman hopes that the system will provide a genuine benefit to the freshmen and looks for the system to be continued after the one-year trial basis. 
be interp~eted by foreign Iea.ders as reflecting American policy." Nes­sen said. Carter "does not have that restraint." 
But that applies only in the technical sense that Carter is not the incumbent. As far as foreign observers are concerned, the words of a would-be president might be as important as Ford's since they could signal significant s hifts in future policy. 
Yet for all the rhetoric the presidential candidates are likely to deliver during the foreign policy portion of their debate, few subs­tantive differences are expected to crop up between them. .. 
Both Ford and CArter claim devotion to the concept of a bipartisan American foreign policy, and they share the same general strategic and intenationalist ap­proach to global politics. 
Secretary of State Henry A. Kissinger, who helped Ford with debate preparations before the President left Washington, has said in hte past he could live with Carter's foreign policy. 

Carter, for his part, has suppor­ted the Ford administration's veto of Vietnam's admission to the United Nations, Ford's tough stand against North Korea, and Kissin­ger's effort to arrange a · ettlement in southern Africa. 
Carter has not yet spelled out what he would do differently than Ford to maintain a "rough equival­ency" he uses Ford's term with the Soviet Union in military power. 
The Democratic candidate also has yet to offer any proposals to change basic U.S. nuclear weapons strategy. 
Ford is expected to announce new policies soon to restrain the spread of nuclear weapons. inclu­ding international control of spent atomic fuel and sanctions against nations violating anti-weapon safe­guards. 
Acareer in law­




withoutlaw school. 
Wh:~t can you do with only a bachelor's degree? 
Now there is a way to bridge the gap between an undergraduate education and a challenging, respon­sible career. The Lawyer's Assistant is able to do work traditionally done by lawyers. 
Three months of i:;tensive training can give you the skills-the courses are taught by lawyers. You choose one of the seven courses offered-choose the city in which you want to work. 
Since 1970, The Institute for Paralegal Training has placed more than 1600 graduates in law firms, banks, and corporations in over 75 cities. 
If you are a senior of high academic standing and are interested in a career as a Lawyer's Assistant. we'd like to meet you. 
Contact your placement office for an interview with our representative. 
We will visit your campus on 
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 4 
The Institute for Paralegal Training 
235 South 17th Street, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19103 (215) 732-6600 Operated by Para-Legal, Inc. 
AC-0035 

and Special guest THE EMOTIONS 
Friday Oct. 15 8:00 PM Notre Dame ACC Tickets $6.50 Main floor and all padded seats 
5.50 Bleachers 
On Sale now at: ACC Box office, Robertson's, 
St. Joseph Bank and Branches, First Bank 
(Main Branch-only), The Elkhart Truth, Just 
For The Record (1 00 Center), Suspende.d 
Cord (Elkhart), The Record Joint (Niles), 
Boogie Records (Mishawaka). 

and· Notre Dame Student Union 
[ 
I 
I'I r 



The Happy Family 
DOONESBURY by Garry Trudeau 
Box Q, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 ~ 
Phone•(219)283-8661 [ND]

~%The Observer 
(219)284-5365 [SMC] an independent student newspaper 
serving notre dame and st. mary's EDITORIAL BOARD 
The Observer is published by students of the University of 
Thomas 0'Nei I Editor-in-Chief

Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. It does not necessarily 
Dan Sanchez Managing Editor

reflect the policies of either institution. The news is reported 
Chris Smith Asst. Managing Ed.

as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials 
Gregg Bangs Executive Editor

represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. 
Val Zurblis Executive Editor

Commentaries, opinions and letters are the views of· their 
Pat Hanifin Editorial Editor

authors. Column space is available to all members of the 
Bob Mader Exec. News Editor

community, and letters are encouraged to promote the free 
Maureen Flynn Cam'pus Editor

expression of varying opinions on campus. 
Marti Hogan St Mary's Editor 

· Business Manager Tom Fronczak Don Reimer Copy EditrJr
Advertising Manager Mike Miller 
Tim O'Reiley/ Features Editor

F:wto Editor Tony Chifari FrPd Herbst Sports EditorProduction Manager Martha L. ~""anning 
-------------------------------------~· Wednesday, October 6, 1976 ~ 

iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii-. art bu c hwaI d 
WASHINGTON--Just as people ''The President has tried to give were getting over the shock of the impression he is always work­Jimmy Carter having given an ing in the Oval Office of the White interview to Playboy magazine, it House. Now we know that while we was revealed that President Ford thought he wa~ reading position had permitted himself to be inter­papers on Rhodesia, he actually viewed by TV Guide, a magazine was watching Police Woman. He that panders to heterosexuals and had nothing to gain and everything people who are titilated by the boob to Jose going public with his private tube. thoughts on this sensitive subject. 
Most Americans believe one's in-In one of the frankest statements ner thoughts on television is a ever made by a President, Mr. private matter between a person ~ord confessed to watchin~ televi-and his TV set. By making a st~n two hours every e~c;mng ~nd national confession of his program satd he prefers shows that gtve preferences, the President has 
me a total change from what I do all 1 shaken the confidence of some of day long. I either like humor or I his most ardent followers." like--and this gets into treacherous 
field, I know--I happen to like Over at Ford Campaign Head­Kojak and Police Woman." quarters, officials were trying to make the most of a bad situation. 
Unlike Carter, President Ford One worker told me, "I don't think did not say whether or not God the TV Guide interview will hur.t 

forgives him for watching televi­the President that much. He was 

sion, but he did' admit he has being honest and frank about a friends who leave their wives to subject that people don't like to talk watch TV and he forgives them for about. Most men in their hearts 

it. The President also confessed have thought about Police Woman to liking Mannix and Cannon which many times, but very few will are now off the air and also admit it openly."

Columbo, another crime show. He also said he gets work done Another Ford campaign official during commercials. was not as optimistic. "I'm afraid the TV Guide int~r­
Many political experts believe view is going to haunt us for the that by granting an interview to rest of the campaign. Instead of TV Guide, Mr. Ford made a the reporters asking questions momentous political blunder. As about tax reform and unemploy­one Carter campaign official put it, · ment, they're going to tackle the "Although he will deny it, Mr. President on his strange TV tastes. Ford chose a magazine to express If I had been asked I would have his views that, for many years, has vetoed the interview. It just associated itself with lascivious doesn't look right for a president to layouts of The Waltons, hedonistic be in the same magazine that articles on The Wonderful World of publishes photographs of Mary Disney and salacious cartoons Hartman, Mary Hartman and All in about Monday night football and the Family." leave nothing to the imagination. 
'"What about the President's "I believe that the question the choice of language in describing his An:terican people are going to ask is program preferences. Do you think 
do they want a President who the public will be shocked by it?" watches Kojak and Police Woman, "President Ford, in private con­but not the commercials,?" versation, always speaks like that. 
"Do you think Mr. Carter will I personally ~hink it makes him make an issue of President Ford's more human." interview in TV Guide?" "No, Mr. Carter feels the inter­In order to be fair I called Ron 
view speaks for itself. But it Nessen to get a statement from him certainly has changed Mr. Ford's on the President's TV Guide inter­image." view. He .refused to return my 
-"In what way?" call. 
Thomas Mason told student government yesterday that "the system here operates on the Happy Family concept.'' 
Mason is new to the Notre Dame "family." He replaced Fr. Jerome Wilson as vice-president for business affairs only a matter of weeks ago. If Mason was just unfamiliar with our family feuds or if his concept was simply an ideal for the existing family, we might simply have set it politely aside. But, oddly enough, it worked well yesterday: George Brown's pigs got the garbage and student govern­ment got the results it asked for. 
Mason insists that if the existing decision-making apparatus fails through bureaucratic bumbling or dangling red tape, students can always sit across from their "parents" and settle their dif­ferences informally. This has occasionally been done but if adopted as a generally­available option for despairing student leaders, it would fit well into the frame­work of in loco parentis and would suit us 
all quite comfortably. In the instance of George Brown and his pigs, student government and the food service management reached an impasse. Price was arguing for the sanitary disposal of left-over food, and the students for its useful and sanitary disposal. Once the discussions between them deadlocked, other members of our "Happy Family" stepped in and made further committee­work unnecessary. They accepted a compromise on behalf of Mr. Price. 
Although there may not be -a happy ending for every conflict in the Happy Family, we may be. thankful at least that the option of informal discussion exists. Our administration has shown us that compromise is possible and that it is also possible to keep most factions of the family content. We hope that the policy is applicable elsewhere. 
After all, we are stuck with in loco parentis, God help us. Our family might as well be a happy one. 

No Vision 
"Without vision the people perish." (Joel 2:28) 
It is uncommon for The Observer to agree with anything that a top adminis­trator says, but Fr. Hesburgh had a powerful point in his interview published yesterday: America definitely needs Leaders who can inspire us with vision. Disturbingly, neither President Ford nor Gov. Carter show any signs of inspiring anyone. 
There seems to be a widespread, though vague, desire for someone.who would be a "leader with vision" -whatever that might mean. What it does not mean is a necessarily "charismatic" type: that much abused term could refer to anyone from Hitler to Kennedy. It does not mean an extremist type, like Goldwater or McGovern who frightened the voters away. It emphatically does not mean a man who will come riding up on a white horse to save us from ourselves. 
If ''a leader With vision'' means any­~hing, it refers to a man with a clear idea of what America should be; a man who can ~all the country back to the principles of liberty and equality on which it was founded. It refers to someone who can illSpire the central majority with his vision and can form a working political coalition ~o get his programs adopted, programs which transcend the old conservative­iberal divisions. Ideally, leaders with VISion can unify the nation's diverse factions to make common efforts for the ~ommon good. 
Neither Carter nor Ford have shown any >f these characteristics. Rather than ackling the fundamental problems the 1ation faces -poverty, education reform, 1 renewed consensus on foreign policy, :!tc. -both retreat to canned phrases and ;tock answers. Rather than dare Amer­
icans to make the hard choices on the 
energy shortage, the threat of world 
famine, the spiritual challenges of wealth, 
both try to please everyone by vagueness 
and promise-them-everything economics. 
It is true that neither are extremists but 
botlf fail to realize that the middle of the 
road is not a place to sit. 
One cannot blame common men for 
simply drifitng with the current political 
realities. The basic problem lies with the 
American people. In the long run a 
nation gets the kind of government it 
deserves. Most voters apparently do vote 
their personal pocketbooks. Most do not 
want to face hard choices; they will vote for 
the man who says whatever they want to 
hear. Most are too lazy to carefully judge 
on the issues. Hesburgh suggests the 
candidates replace their slick commercials 
with two hour speeches; how many voters 
would watch them analytically? 
Yet there is a chance for vision. Several times in American history there have been "critical elections" when great leaders were able to inspire majorities with renewed ideals. Jefferson did it in 1800, Roosevelt in 1932, Kennedy to some e~ent managed it in his brief term. Many Americans are disenchanted with the whole political system (perhaps half will not even bother to vote). The old coalitions are slowly disintegrating, giving a dynamic leader the material for a new and lasting majority. 
It is the paradox of democratic leader­ship that while the people get the government they deserve, they can some­times be persuaded to transcend purely personal interests and elect . visionary leadership rather than mere cautious representation. That is not happening this year. But there is still hope that it can someday be said again of America: "Your young men shall see visions and your old men shall dream dreams.'' 


---------~---------~------------------------~--------------------""'1 
-. 

"We watched the service of dinner," wrote the vistor to Notre Dame's South Dining Hall in 1928. "The doors opened at 
11:55. A thousand students marched in, and each took his allotted place at the table, standing at his chair. At t,welve o'clock a bell signal called all to attention. A r,riest said grace. A bell struck, and all sat down. A red Iight flashed in the dining hall and another in the kitchen, this signaled the waiters to bring in the soup. One hundred student waiters brought in the soup in silver tureen11. each to his alloted table, and the soup was dished from the tureen at the table. Again the light signal flashed. It was the signal to bring in the dinner. The waiters came with meat on silver platters, potatoes in silver dishes, a vegetabw in silver vegetable dishes, and salad on silver platters. The tea and coffee were brought in in silver pots, each holding 9tl'ounces.'' 
'"Within eight minutes after the first bell had rung all were served. We watched the thousand young men eat. They seemed to all be hearty and to enjoy the food." 
"In twenty five minutes ft:om the sounding of the first bell, the dinner was over. Meanwhile all students kept their seats until the tap of the bell, when they rose, a priest gave thanks, and they filed out of the room," our friend from the past continued. 
"That was long ago," said Bernard Mehall, the assistant director of the food service. "Things have been turned 360 degrees around since then. The students can smoke in the halls now and they don't have to wear coat and ties anymore. They can have seconds now and we pipe music from the local pop radio station. When I first came here, the only music we were allowed to play to them was classical music." 
"It would be nice to serve people sitting 
down. There's no question about that," 
said Food Service Director Edmund Price. 
"But the labor costs have gone up a lot 
since those days. But what is the purpose 
of the food service, to provide a balanced 
meal or to serve tables? I think that the 
investment could be better spent.'' 
Price likes the present set-up at the South Dining Hall. "The scrambler is an efficent and fast way to handle the students. Especially better than the cafeteria line which replaced the sit-down service in 1943. The students use to have to zig-zag through the hall standing in line. 
You would be sitting down eating and there would be somebody standing right behind you in line still waiting to be served. -The scrambler might not be what you call refined, but it is a much faster system." 
The dining system was first located in the Administration building. Two dining rooms each able to seat 350 people were in the basement of the two wings where the admission and accounting offices are presently located. There was a separate two-story kitchen building that was located behind the main building, build in 1848 and used until 1927. Here the brothers and sisters of Holy Cross prepared the food before it was hauled into the dining halls in carts pushed by students. 
The quality of the food declined over the years till in the 1900's, a cafeteria was leased to South Bend restaurateur O.A. Clark where he operated a pay-cafeteria. A student could choose between paying $350 a year to eat at the main building, or buying his meal daily at the cafeteria in the basement of Badin Hall. 
The South Dining Hall was built in 1927 to relieve the food problem. Built where the university once had its farm buildings, the hall could boast of the very best equipment available. at the time. 
One true story involves the committee formed to buy all furnishings and equip­ment that the new hall would need. The committee narrowed the choice on what chair to buy from over thirty models to just three on the basis of design, strength and 
·price. But the committee could not decide which one of the three to buy. So Brother Columkilles, who was the master carpenter in the area, took the three models to the top of the rotunda in the administration building and dropped them the five stories. 
The one that landed on the first floor unbroken was the one that the committee bought from the Phoenix Chair Company, at $6.30 each. 
"Those chairs cost us fifty dollars each three years ago when we remodeled the South Dining Hall. We replaced all the chairs in the public cafeteria and we did't have enough chairs left, so we had to buy new ones." said South Dining Hall's manager Robert Smith. 
"We stripped the dining halls and tore out the old serving lines that the navy put in. And we put in the scrambler then too." 
"We are conscious of cost, but we try not to let finances effect us in decisions on quality," Price said. "We are like' a housewife, everything is a trade-off like budgeting expenses at home. If we give more to one thing, we have to take away from another." 
"I look at the costs." said Michael Yuhas, head of the purchasing and cost control office. "We determine what to order by our requisition and re-order systems. We usually use about 800 items and we always try to have them in stock. When their level falls off to a certain point, we know to re-order. Requisitions for special events are usually put in two weeks in advance. I look at the menus and see what we don't have and what we need. Then we put out lists for bids. Everything is on a bid basis." 
''And we have standards for everything. We don't go for anything but the best," said Yuhas. "We meet the students three times a day. It is our duty to please them three times a day. It is a difficult duty number-wise.'' 
According to Yuhas, they spend about $2,000,000 a year on food. The students consume 33,000 loafs of bread a year, 720,000 buns, 175,000 gallons of milk, 583,000 pounds of meat, 768,000 donuts, 475,000 pounds of potatoes and 3500 crates of lettuce. 
"We would have more lettuce there,but we have an agreement to buy only U. F. W. goods and it is sometimes pretty hard to get them. Four or five years ago, tht~ students voted to only buy U.F.W. There are no exceptions," Yuhas said. "We are not presently buying grapes.'' 
Yuhas gets almost SO calls a day from salesmen. "The Notre Dame account is prestigious. A student asked at a food meeting why we didn't have Mr. Pibb at the dining halls. At the time, nobody knew what Mr. Pibb was, so I called up the local Coke-Cola distributer and asked him if he had heard of it. He did, but he didn't have any. So he called Chicago, which in return called Coke U.S.A. and said that Notre Dame wants Mr. Pibb and within two weeks, we had Mr. Pibb. Our number one goal has always been to get the best 
' possible product.'' What foods are decided fit for student consumption? "We taste various products all the time to see what brand is 'the best,'' said Dietitian Phyllis Roose. "The students never gets anything directly from the shelves. We label each sample with a letter or a number, so its a blind test. You do not know what brand it is. The products are scored for eye appeal, taste, flavor, and texture." ­''I think that this is something that has to 

Wednesday, October 6, 1976 the observer 
5 

The Dining Halls 
Better Foods or 
Bigger Johns!" 
by Drew J. Bauer and Barb Langhenry· 
be done," said Mehall. "It has to be done As Director of the Food Service, Price is objectively and it has to be done right. I responsible for a great many areas besides only wish that there would be student the North and South Dining Halls. These members of the food advisory council there include· Corby Hall. The Huddle. the when we do it." vending machines, catering and the con­
"Our aim is to make the Notre Dame cession stands at the ACC and the student as happy as possible," said Stadium. Mehall. "We want to serve the best ''I'm the co-ordinator at the food possible food, and we want to have the best service," said Mehall. "You can't ha\ e possible service. And to what I have seen everybody going to Price. That would he at other schools, I think that we have done impossible. Once we have established an excellent job.'' policy. it is my responsibility to sec that it 
But all the students are not happy. "I is carried out." know that its hard for them, what with Mehall explained the policy of not taking everybody coming here after always get­food out of the dining halls. "We don't ting good home-cooked food from mom," care about how manv seconds somcbod\· said Ric Haley, one student who disagrees. has in the hall. but we doh 't wat{t 
"But really. some of the food that they somebody to try and take out ten peanut· serve ... it's like there are little elves behind butter-and-jelly sandwiches in their coat. those kitchen doors pushing a button of a· If we allowed this. we would have to machine and producing this food that just increase the L~osts of the program.·· is not like anything I have ever seen Mehall called attention to one recent before." student trying to bend--the rules. "On 
"I was a watch-fixer before I became a Mondav. a student came in here with one cook," said South Dining Hall's cook of those duffel bags. and inside it he had George Warrick. "IEever really cooked an empty gallon container. He went over to before I came here, just 'some jobs in small the milk machine and started to fill the restaurants." container up. But we got to him before he 
"I don't let student criticism bother got much ... Mehall concluded. me," continued Warrick. "I know that the Besides worrying about spoiled produce, food here is good. I'm proud of the food. If milk ranglers. bad cooks and food riots. you don't like one thing, there is always Price and his colleagues also have two something else to eat. . It's not like St. other matters to worry about: the long Mwry's where they watch the costs, not the lines and the menus. quality of the food." ,;There is no way to push the kids 
According to Price, the cooks are one of through lines faster because they all come his problems because it is hard to get at one time," said Price. The food service qualified people in the food service occasionally times students to see how long because of the heavy demand. Butin order it takes to be served. Price found that to upgrade the service here, Price teaches hardly any student has to wait in line for such courses as sanitation and food more than 10 minutes. production to the sta1'f. "I remember having to stand in line 30 
In 1968 there was a food riot caused by to 45 minutes at the south Dining Hall... over 400 cases of diarrhea, the result of a said Yuhas who went to Notre Dame in the bad supper one night. The next day the early fifties. ''And when we finally got rumble could be heard across the campus served, it seemed that everything would as students gathered.. picketed, and de­always be cold. And on week-ends, the nounced the food service. That night at only thing that we would get for supper supper, the students in the North Dining were cold cuts." 
Hall engaged in a cream-puff food-fight The menus are drawn up by the dietitian that resulted in broken glasses and and looked over by the officers of the food overturned tables. The students carried service. "We must be able to co-ordinate signs into battle demanding "better food the menus with what we can do," Price or bigger johns." The administration said. Some of these conditions are the -responded by asking food employees to availablity of food, the price, ease of wash their hands. serving and the menu cycle. 
"They say that its tradition," said "All the nutrients that you need can be Mehall who has weathered several food­found in our menus, .. said Roose. "But fights during his 15 years here. "But I say, that doesn't mean that if you-eat here. you No way! But that's what people say. It is a would get a balanced meal. You just have waste, and a frighting experience for the to choose the items of the four major employees.'' groups that you need every day.'' 
"It's just not justified," Mehall con­In 1889, students didn't have much of a tinued. "If there is a complaint with the choice. The menus from that period food, go through the channels and means prescribes one big meal a day, not lunch for handling causes like these. There is no but breakfast. Such items as mock turtle need for damage. It is just a way to take soup, boston baked beans, liver & bacon, things out of their proper perspective." beefsteak, fra-nkfurters and pork chops "The food service has never been better were available to the early riser. Lunch 
than it is now under Mr. Price," said was mainly made up of either roast beef .of Brother Kieran Ryan. the assistant Vice­mutton and supper was solely dependent President for Business affairs. Ryan stated on cold meat. that his office only concerns itself with the food service staying in its budget, and does And what of today's food? "I try to eat not involve itself in the actual running of most of my meals here." said Price. "I 
the halls. "We don't tell Coach Devine find it hard to walk past the food without 
how to run his football team, and they having any, there is so much food and it is 
report to us too." all so good! " 
I·• 



r-------------------------------------------­
the observer Wednesday, October 6, 1976 
At Stepan Center: 

Rally for elderly scheduled 
~~­
by Steven Gray Staff Reporter 
fhe Northern Indiana Older Adults ~egislative Forum, an organization .hat brings together senior citizen ~roups in the five northern counties >f Indiana, will have a rally in itepan Center on Thursday, Oct. 7, 1t 1 p.m. 
The forum is a non-partisan >rganization that attempts to unite Jlder adults and to address itself to ~overnment officials as well as political candidates. The forum is :oncerned with the problems and needs that face the older popula­tion of the country. 
The purpose of the rally is to nake politicians. and even older :itizens themselves, aware of the >roblems and injustices imposed m the older adults in our society. l'he :;;sues the Forum will focus on tt the rally include mandatory ·etirement, adequate annual in­·ome and Title XX of the Social ;ecurity Act. 
Father Schulamen, legislative ·hairman of the five northern 
~0-SMC Repubs to aid campaigns 
The Saint Mary's and Notre )arne College Republicans will be 1olding an important meeting this fhursday, October 7th at 6:45 pm 
n the Memorial Library Auditor­
um. , 

Topics discussed will be plans for 1iding local and national Republi­:an campaigns along with plans for 1 campus canvass. All interested 
ndividuals are welcome to attend. 
Carroll to host lebate discussion 
The St. Mary's Student Govern­nent and the Notre Dame and St. 1ary's College Departments of iovernment Studies present the econd televised presidential de­ate tonight in Carroll Hall of 1adeleva at 8:30 p.m. 
The viewing of the debate which 
oncerns foreign policy will be 
ollowed by an informal discussion 
nd refreshments. 
Gibson lectures Play philosophy' 
Shelia O'Neill Gibson, professor f philosophy at the College of the ioly Names, Oakland, California, :ill speak on The Philosophy of 'lay Wednesday, Oct. 6 at St. 1ary's College. The lecture. cheduled for 7:30 p.m. in Carroll lall, Madeleva Memorial Build­lg, is ·part of the 1976 American cene series. 

Gibson, a 1960 graduate of St. vlary's, received her M.,A. and .,h.D. degrees from the University ,f Toronto. She has been associ­ted with the College of the Holy 
lames since 1966. 
The lecture is open to the public 
ithout charge. 
Young Demos seek petitions 
Petitions for nominations for the ,otre Dame/Saint Mary's Young Jemocrats Club musL be m by noon n Wednesday, Oct. 6. The etitions must be turned into acting resident, Paul Falduto, at 225 1orrissey (phone 3527). 
The offices consist of president, ice-president, secretary, and tre­sJrer. The petitions are a eclaration of interst and intent to un and fullfill the office obliga­ons.! 
There will be a meeting of the oung Democras at 7:00, Wednes­ay in room 2-D of LaFortune. At 1is meeting officers for the year hall be elected. 
counties, related a typical problem older people face, "When a person is 65, we have a retirement party for him, give him a wrist watch and a pen, tell him what a great person he is and how much he did for the company; then we tell him to go sit on the sidelines and we pat him on the head. This is age discrimin­ation. The people at the age of 65 have a lot of years left." 
Father Schulamen went on to say that such retirements drastically reduce the income of many elderly couples, most of whom are still capable of earning a decent living. He also pointed out that for more than SO per cent of the people on soda! security, the sole income is a soc1al security check--which aver­a~es about $200 per month. 
Schulamen continued by adding that the most important issue is that of Title XX of the Social Security Act. Title XX, signed into law by President Gerald Ford in Jan. of 1975, is funded with 75 per cent federal monies and 25 per cent of state or local re-venue. In Indiana, the state funds are not 


Park bench of the week. [Photo by Leo Hansen] 
TRANSPORTATION PROVIDED ANYWHERE IN U.S. 
By Paddy's Wagon Vans Inc. 
THIS WEEK NEED DRIVERS TO 
SPRINGFIELD, ILL. 
provided. Therefore, the elderly go without important services. 
Under Title XX, the elderly would have the following services: infor­mation and referral, chore and housekeeping, friendly visitation, nutrition services, day care for older adults to reduce or avoid institutionalization, special trans­portation, homemaker. home health care and legal services. The rally will attempt to bring Title XX and other priorities to the attention of area legislatures. 
Some of the keynote speakers for the rally on Thursday will be Bishop Joseph Crowley, who will say the invocation, Lt. Governor Orr (Rep.), U.S. Representative Brademas and Rabbi Elliot Rosen­stock, who will say the benediction. 
There will also be a panel that will answer questions. Members of the panel are Bob Ducomb and Dick Bodine, both state representatives, and Les Fox, a member of REAL Services. The master of ceremom­ies will be Don McNiell and the 
general chairmam of the forum is Frank Gootee. 
BUNCH-OF-LUNCH 

11 a.~~~,!~:~OCp~~~ _T7oD~~s~~eek $216 1Snigbt1)
Pizza-Chicken-Spaghetti-Salad ~~~' 
Ages 10 and under 20c per year 

MEN'S HAIRSTYLING 
!'lEW CONCEPT in llllisex hair~tyling for Men and
ALL MAJOR SPORTS 

HAIRCUT_ $5.00 M•., loc·atRd on our lowt>r lt>\1'1. ' SIP COFFEl. b} tht> filvplat·e in a n>laxt•d
ON 7FT T.V. 

BLOWSTYLING-$4.5C atmosrhm. 
CO 'VI PLETE PIU\ .\('\' in our indhidual HAIRCUT AND stylinl( •mits.
LIVE MUSIC 

BLOW STYLING ~ F-\ST SEP\'10. for l'arvln·p ··ut> &nd FRIDAY AND SATURDAY NIGHTS COMINATION-$8.50 w~b·~;::i'~~~~ 1tK produ!'ts. 
PERMANENT WAVING BY
BEER AND WINE 7 DAYS AWEEK NATURAL MAN $25 
~uttn'~ ( agtle
54533 TERRACE LANE Tues., Wed., Sot. 6:30 · 5:30, Thurs. & Fri. 6:30 · 6:30 PHONE 277 . 1691 

SENIORS!!! 
PLEASE RETURN YOUR SENIOR PICTURE PROOFS THIS WEEK! 
FOLLOW THE INSTRUCTIONS ACCOMPANYING THE PROOFS AND MAIL YOUR SELECTION TO 
DELMA STUDIOS. 
CALL BETSY 
6232 


Tom McMahon 
General Aqenl 

John Wahman 
Agent 

. 
Karen Wentland 
Agent 
'~-­
f.'~r,_ 
.,,~\ 
Diane Long
AgenT 

'1l·araftt·r 'l'ar. 
Isl'mt•stl'r 'aftl'r 
sl'ml'stCr~ thl' 
( 'olll'gl'l\ Iaster 
from Fidl'lih 
l'nion I jfl' ti{ts 
ht'l.'ll thl' most 
al'l'l'ptl'tl. most 
popular plan on 
rampusl'S all 
( ,, er America. 
Find out" In. 
Call the 
Fidl'lit\ l. nion ( 'ollege:\ lastt'r . Fil'ld Assodatl' 
m \our arl'a: 
•i15 E. Cedar South Bend, Ind. Phone 287-2327 

935 -5111 or 936 -4840 
<Zrbr 


Wednesday, October 6, 1976 the observer 
Notre Dame nine splits doubleheader with Indiana 
by Tim Bourret Sports Writer 

The Notre Dame baseball team had two major faults last season. The Irish hurlers had a combined earned run average of 4.66, far from the desired yield, and the 1976 team also committed a sloppy 92 errors. But, in Sunday's doublehead split with Indiana State is any indication of things to come, the 1977 squad should improve significantly on last year's 16-24 campaign. 
The Notre D,ame pitching staff did not give up an earned run on this rare perfect baseball weather day at Kline Field. Jim Sholl was the most impressive of the Irish pitchers as he heldl the Sycamores to only four hits in Notre Dame's 7-0 opening game triumph. Sholl was especially effective with his off-speed deliveries as he forced the Indiana State hitters to wave aimlessly at many of his slow curves. In all Sholl fanned seven and walked only one in his 79-pitch paformance. The Irish defense was solid behind the senior hurler from Oakwood, Ohio, as they committed only one error in the swiftly played one hour 52 minute contest. 
Rick Pullano, Notre Dame's dim­inutive star shortstop, had an outstanding afternoon at the plate. In the opener the sophomore from Skokie, Ill. went three for three and scored two runs to key the offensive explosion. Mike Gallo­way also did his job as the offense's table-setter by drawing four walks and scoring two runs. 
The Irish put the first game out of reach with a five run fifth. Indiana State reliever Randy Rohr­man put himself in a hole by walking the first three men he faced before senior catcher Tim Pollack, who had a pair of singles in the game, then singled to left to 
Hockey tixon sale 
Season hockey tickets will be available to students beginning next week. 

These tickets will be on sale on a first-come, first-serve basis at the #3 Ticket Window on the second floor of the ACC. Notre Dame students may purchase their tickets on Tuesday, Oct 12 and Wednesday Oct. 13 from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m; St. mary's students may purchase tickets on Thursday, Oct. 14 from 9 
a.m. to 4 p.m. Each student map present only his own ID. Students wishing adjacent seating must purchase-their tickets at the same time. 
There are three types of student tickets available to students this year. There are eight two-game series this season. A ticket for all 16 games costs students $16 and a student's spouse $24. Students can also purchase a first~game-of-the­series ticket or a second-game-of­the-series ticket which would enti­tle a student to see either the first game or the second game of each of the eight home series. Each of these tickets are $8 a,piece for students and $12 for a student's spouse. 
No season game tickets will be sold after Oct. 14. Single game tickets are $1.50 for students with

2 
presentation of an ID card.

3 4 
drive in a run to give the Irish a comfortable 3-0 lead. Bob Cleary and Rick Greenwell -also had run­scoring singles in the productive stanza. 
Indiana State came back strong in the second game and shut out the Irish 6-0. In the nightcap freshman Mark Carney made his first appearance in a Notre Dame uniform. The right-hander from Elmhurst, Ill. pitched well in his four and on-third inning stint, but contributed to his own downfall with an untimely fielding error and , wildness. Carney did not give up an earned run and walked only one, but a wild pitch and a wild toss to first that resembled an Adrian Dantley jump shot led to three of the four runs the Irish surrendered when he was on the mound. 
Jim Ridenour and Mitch Over­myer combined for Indiana State's two-hit shutout victory inthe sec­ond game. Rick Pullano was the only ofensive weapon for Tom Kelly's squad with two more hits giving him a 5-7 afternoon. 
Freshman Tim Handrich and junior Joe Karpowicz also pitched well in relief for the Irish giving coach Tom Kelly some reasons for an optimistic attitude toward a position that was believed to be the primary problem for the 1976 squad. 
Notre Dame continues their fall 
schedule next weekend with four 
contests. The Cincinnati Bearcats 
travel to Kline Field for a twin bill 
this Saturday beginning at 1:30 
pm. On Sunday the Irish journey 
southward to Terre Haute for a 
return match with Indiana State. 
Sports staff meet tonight 
There will be a meeting for both male and female Observer sports­writers tonight at the St. Mary's office located in Regina North at 
7:30. The Observer van will be leaving from LaFortune at 7:15 for anyone needing transportation. This meeting is mandatory for anyone who would like to write! 
Soccer club wins 
by Kevin ConnoUy Sports Writer 
.:rhe Notre Dame Soccer Club 
extended their winning streak to 
four games last weekend with two 
shutout victories. The wins im-· 
proved their season record to S-3. 
The Irish got their first shutout of 
the season Wednesday as they beat 
the University of Chicago, 6-0. 
Kevin Buckley scored a hat trick 
and Terry Finnegan, Paul Dever­
eaux and Jay O'Laughlin added 
singlt;: goals for Notre Dame. 
Roger Kelly earned the shutout 
with some spectacular play in the 
nets. 
On Friday night, the Irish cap­
tured another victory on the road as 
they shut out the University of 
Michigan, 1-0. Co-captain Tom 
Mulvey notched the tally that 
proved victorious and Mark Klein 
repelled every Michigan threat on 
the goal. 
Notre Dame looks to extend their 
winning streak today in an away 
game at Goshen College. 

5 
6 
KEN'S DEN 

HAIR STYLING -­MEN &WOMEN ACROSS FROM 1 00 CENTER 
{LINCOLNWAY WEST IN MISHAWAKA) PHONE 255-6500 APPOINTMENTS PREFERRED 
I

...•.•,.'.'' .. ' ,, .., ' .. ',,,,,, ~' 
NOTICES 
Accurate, fast typing. Mrs. Donoho 232-07 46 
FREE!!! 10-week old kitten (male) Call Terry 3888 
Greyhound Bus to Chicago Leaves Cirte Every Friday at 4:45. Call Tom at 8338 by Midnight Thursday for Seat Reservations and further info. 
Will do Typing Themes, manuscripts. Call 287­5162 
ATTENTION-The Northem Indiana Older Adult Legislative Forum is a group designed to become a political force in Indiana. They will meet at 1 
p.m. in Stepan Center, Thurs., Oct 
7. Come and attend 
Forming an Overeaters Anonymous group on campus -more information later. 
Experienced pilot will fly 2 or 3 passengers to destinations with in 250-mile radius of N.D. weekends or for Breaks. Return flights can be arranged. Call Jon Reyniers M BIO 3396 days, 684-5867 evenings. 
WHY PAY MORE? FLANNER RECORDS HAS $6.98 LIST L.P.'S FOR $4.65. CALL 1492 OR STOP BY 809 FLANNER HALL 
BEER Kegs, Free Delivery and Low Prices 288·7878 Chip 
ADIDAS -Shoes (57 Varieties), shirts, bags, etc. Quick orders. See Catalog GS Farley. Chris or Mary 39112 
Pitt bus after Oregon game. Sign up Thurs (tomorrow) night LaFortune Lobby. 6:30 p.m. 
FOR RENT 
Single rooms, 511 N. Frances. Call 232-8712. Must like dogs. 
LOST AND FOUND 
Lost: Brown Corduroy jacket at SMC Club House Party Friday. If found call Lou 6818 
Found: Hunting knife left in car by hitchiker. Friday night. Call 255­8496 
Lost: Light-brown wrap-tie rainco:Jt. Reward! Karen 6994 
LOST-Leather Key Chain with 8 keys. Gold initial "N" on leather. Call 8066. 
WANTED 
Need 6 GA Oregon Tickets 
Call 7128 
Need ride to BUFFALO for October break. Call Chris 6881 
Rider needed to Boston for break. Approximate weight 100 pounds! Must like small foreign cars. For appointment call Jeff or the Coon at 3451 
Need desperately two Alabama GA tickets. Will pay SS. Call 4-5237 
Need 4 Oregon tix GA Call Cole 288-5667 
Lots of Tix wanted-any home game. Call Tom 287-3689 
Wanted: ride to Youngstown or vicinity on Oct 15 or 16. Cathy 4-4770 
MONEY-will pay nicely for 4 G.A. Oregon tix Leslie 8135 ­
IJSFSA Figure and-or dance pofes­sional. Call Mrs. Myers Michiana Figure Skating Club. 287-4524 
Ride to Toledo this Firday. Call 
Peggy8125 
Need 2 Bama tix for parents who have never been to an ND game. Mary8125 
Roll-Tide Got some extra GA tix you wanna get rid of fast? Call Mary 8125 

Addressers wanted Immediately! Work at home--no experience nec­essary--excellent pay. Write Amer­ican ·Serivce, Suite 132, Minneapo--­lis, Mn 55426 
Desparately need ride to Columbus, Ohio weekend of Oct 9. Call Gary 1785 
Need 2 G.A. Bama ·tix desperately. 
Call 1785 
Help! Need 2 G.A. Oregon tickets. 
Call Gregg at 1650 
Wanted: Pair of Oregon tix for mom and dad! Call 3429 
Need 7-Oregon tickets. 259-0631. 
After 5:00 p.m. 
I need two GA Oregon Tickets. 
Please call 1010 and ask for. John 
Need 2 Gen. Adm tix for Oregon game. Phone Bob. 255-8660 

Classified Ads 
Needed: one ticket for Oregon game. CAll TGex 289-1431 
Will treade 2 section 26 Oregon tix for 2 BAMA tix. Call Steve 287-6823 
Associated Cleaning Service needs one male to work on campus from 9 
p.m. to 1 a.m. 5 days a week. Pay reate $2.40 an hour. Responsible individual only. Inquire at 232-7441 
Desperately need guitarist who can read music for production of Jaques Brei Call Lou 6818. 
Need ride to Long Island N.Y. Oct Break. Leave Firday afternoon. Share$ and driving Chris 288-9768 after 6:30 
4 GA Oregon tickets needed for loving parents. Joan 1334 
Need 2 Oregon GA tickets. Name your price. Call 6733 or 233-4222 
Millionare Irish fan from Minnesota must have 4 GA· BAMA tix. UNLIMITED FUNDS!! Call, Dan 1420 
I want you to sell me 3 or more GA tixs to Oregon. Karen 6737 
Need riders to Bloomington. (Nor 
mal, ISU). Ill. Oct 8. Call 272-2401 
Desperately need up to 5 GA tickets for Miami game for Mom, Dad anc:: the Kids. Call Peg or Rose at 4682 
Need 2 Oregon GA Tickets. Call Kevin 289-6929 
Julio's carry-Out. Part-Time deli very guy wanted. Must have own car. guaranteed $3.00 per hour. Call 233-2354 after 4 p.m. 
Riders needed for Toledo this Friday Call Bev 287-2219 
FOR SALE 
2 Springsteen tickets Low number padded seats Sec 10. Call 1197 
For Sale-71 Pinto Good transporta­tion. Call Bill, 288-5972 
NEW LONDON LAKE CONDOMI· N IUMS. 2 bedrooms, den 2-car garage. $33,900. Sandy Stroes 272­7750 or 272-2696 
For SAle 2 Married Student Tickets for all remaining home games. 272-9799 
--;--------------­
PERSONALS 
Happy 2oth Matt! Want to go dancing? How many guys get a last tango in Paris, with 6 girls? Happy Birthday from the six of us 
Zeke, Bitsy, and Block: Not every Bod has such Keen K idz. You made my semi-centennial 
Dear Pinko-
We're not tired of you yet.. (yawn l Don't button your overalls so fast next time. 
the Smith Sisters 
P. S. Happy 2oth! 
Mattieu, 
Ton anniversaire! Et "vous etes le 
meilleur"! It's "Pulitzer" coming 
your way to punish you today! 
Some call you Big Spender 
Some Call me Space Cadette 
And what's a birthday without 
a pun? 
(Just wait till you're 21 !l 
Rose D'Angers 
M.P.R., 
Won't you please "Come out To­
night 
Rosalita 
One month has not alto-ed our friendship, Co! Happy 2oth -the girls 
Congrats and Best wishes to Annie and Rich. From last years crew from 2nd floor LeMans 
Matt-
A toast to crushes-whomever they 
may be. Have a happy day! 
Zahlen Bitte 
Con-Matt-ulations on your 20th· -Band Aids 
So who's AQ? 
Today is your birthday, Matt. 
Better enjoy it thoroughly. 
If not, you'll be in tl)e dog house 
And then you'd be Kennelly 
Love, the 
Instigator 
(Puns are catching) 
Andrea! I was delighted an intri­
gued when 1 met you last Saturday 
at that Dillon party. I'd like to learn 
more about you. Give me a call. 
John (7096) 
P.S. Thanks for introducing me, Pete! 
Happy Birthday Dianne 18 years Don't let it bring you down. Don 
Matt, 
What's playing in London this 
weekend? The show ends in time to 
make he 10 o'clock ferry. 
Emily 
Who is this guy Matt Kennelly? 
''

'---------------------------------------------------------~--------------................~~ 
Durty Nellie­
1 know you were a girl scout but did you forget Brownies? If you run out of cookies you can always go to Chuck's Steak House. It's the Annex of the Cheeta. 
Jim's Brother 
___________(Jlig_QgWjvl 

Kathleen I love you Happy 2oth Birthday Ron 
Terry, Here it is Happy almost4 Ric 
Matt, May your green & white always keep you warm 
Day Tripper P.S. Happy 2oth 
Thans for bike repairs, articles clipped, rides around town and your charming company. Froehliche Geburstag & Heureuse Anniversiare, Matt. 
Love Your Farley Friends 

MATT Please don't have another birthday on the day after my day to type next year 
the typist 

Hey Ric and Terry. Have a happy day Jene, Tim and Drew 
Doughead wants some pencil era­sers to nibble on 
Just want you to know Your Birthday's not im-matt.terial! Space C., Princess, & W iII y Won ka 
Matt is so cheap! Oh, hi Matt. Happy Birthday from Foot-in-Mouth 
To F.a. I like your Haircut as much as I do you your classmate 

Our apologies to the aftemoon typist -Matt's friends 
Your forgiven me 
Woan ... Frank, Happy B-Day. Sweet 20 and never had it kissed 
B. Dick 
Dear Buck: A dollar and a note from your mother will get you swenson's, guess who? 
Matt, 
What can I say? Happy Birthday! Love, the Flan (The Eloquent) 
CHRIS SMITH IN HIS 7TH SMASH, YEAR, The entire smc staff hopes you recover soon! 
Love, Sis and the gang 
To Chris, 
In his seventh smashing year. Please stick around for the comple­tion of it. 
your subordinate 
John, 
Take it easy, "chief," and get back in shape so you can have "fun" and "a repeat performance!" The chicken soup will be there soon. 
Je t'aime, Debbie 
Michael, You're a very special person indeed. You never cease to amaze us. Happ) Happy birthday. 
J.J. and Leigh 
Needed urgently! One or two housemates (male or femalel for an old house near comer of Hill and Napoliean; 3 bedrooms, complete bathroom, well insulated, gas heat nice neigborhood. Please call me now, Bill, 7437 till 5 p.m. weekdays. 
Matt. Did Sun. nite scare ya? We really are sane sometimes. Happy Birthday. 
Wobble Wobble and Stroke stroke 
P.S. Love those eyes!· 
Matt-are you cute or should you smoke a pipe or both?? Aappy Birthday in any case, 
from Confused Personals reader 
Happy Birthday, Matt! We love you, even if we can't say you last name right. 
To, Arnie, Tony, Pat, Bill, John, Mike, Lou & Matt. Thanks to~ all you help ., last Thursday night! Lasagna Din ner soon ! ! 
Very important Senior Advisory Council meeting. Wednesday, Od­ober6, 4:15 in 124 Hayes-Healy 
Mandatory Bag Meeting at the BAG INN at I :00 tonight. • Membership policy to be discussed. Meeting will be short so we don't bag Jimmy and Jerry (Farah wher-. are you tonight?) 
Pumpkin­
1guess lreallyHarvested from this weekend. Let's do it again some­time 
The Decorator Beth:------------­
Thouoht I'd give you another personal-just to surprise you with 
something!! , Guess who?? . 
(• 

-=8__--'-'th:....::....:=e--=o~b=-s=-e.:::...:...r....:.v~e:..:r~_wednesday!.._o_ct~b_e_r_6,_1976 
Notre Dame icers hol'd hockey expo
' 
y p c on oc ey. IS area IS qmte s1m1 ar ..,
b Chi s ani h k Th' . . . . 'I "i Ill'"~ ~-f.. ' 
Sports Writer to breaking a full court press in L " A 
basketball and is the first step in -··--~ '1 If you're in doubt about what setting up a scoring opportunity at ­
rT R ( 

really goes on during the course of the other end of the ice. I ..: \,\ 
a hockey game, wondering about The Irish will also show the ···'f.'fi\\ -·--,.....-:::..~;:: 
what kind of hockey team the Irish fundamental methods of setting up .•,,·.,~.tl;ftf;'ff,\,\. l~ ~-:-' L ­
are going to field this year, or just dying to get a free autographed team picture of the 1976-77 Irish ·_leers. then the answer to your lsecret thought and desires is the first annual Notre Dame Hockey Expo held at the ACC Thursday 
night at 7:00 p.m. 
Thursday head coach Lefty Smith, assistant coach Tic Schafer and their Notre Dame hockey team wiil demonstrate the rudiments of hockey, scrimmage for one period under game conditions and then sign free team pictures for those attending the Hockey Expo. The team will also be available to pose for pictures with those fans bring­ing along their cameras. "What we hope to do," comments Lefty Smith.. "is to orient the fans to the game of hockey. Although it may appear complicated to a spectator viewing a hockey game for the first time, once you grasp n:rta !?asic situations the game is very easy to understand." 
The first order of the night will be the demonstration of the key situations in a hockey game. The Irish skaters will show different methods for breaking out of their own zone, one of the most basic means of strategy in the game of in the opposition's zone and 'the varied forms of attcking the net. These include shots from the defensemen stationed at the blue-line, from the center icemen set up in the slot in front of the net or from 
the left and right wing who will be closing on the net from the corners ~f the zone. 
·'Other areas basic to the under­
standing of hockey are the short­. handed penalty situations and the ·man advantage power play situa­
tions. The short-handed situation will be explained in terms of defensing the opponent's power play situation. This is done by going into a box defense in front of your goalie while trying to keep opposing players from entering the boxed area. 
The power play situation will bemonstrate how the man advan­tage is used to its best advantage. This usually means working for the best possible shot on goal while being cautious not to get too 
offensive  minded  and  allow  the  
opposing  team a short-han ded  
goal.  

Common infractions· such as icing, offsides and other frequent penalties will be demonstrated by the skaters with comments being 
l~t~OUIII 
'U•'•'•~~\~•~}
~~'f'll'f.l ...l 
.4~0U•'a'~~ 
I .~f!f,Jl/).,~
", "«~ l'rl 
f{~\~~Jk~!j
__r
t" ,, '·J.'~'Y.II 
J J il/1. 
/.( t (f,,,!~·:"&;
(~.fjf l,,.,,,.t,,, 
· 

made by coaches and Schafer. 
At the conclusion of this demon­stration the Irish will scrimmage for one period while the coaches continue to point out situations and make insights involving the finer 
Ted Robinson •===========================================::=================:-.=======================================================================================================================:=========== 
Who's best in the A.L. 
:::==================================================:=:::::::=::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;;;:;;;;:;=~=~=~=~=;=i=;=;=;=;=;=;=;=::=:=;;:=:=:=====================================================================================~ Yanks ? 
An old baseball adage cites a productive farm system as a necessity for molding a winning team. A study of the New York Yankees, who will oppose the Kansas City Royals in the American League Playoffs, repudiates this adage. Of the twenty-five Yankee players, only two are home-grown products. The man responsible for forming the present team through trades is President Gabe Paul, who acquired nine quality players since the end of last season. The names are Figueroa, Jackson, Ellis, Alexander, Rivers, Randolph. Holtzman, May, and Gamble; every one of them having played an integral part in the Yankees' success. 
Meanwhile, the Royals will field twelve players who came up through their own farm system. For years, the Royals have spent enormous amount of time and money to mold the most elaborate scouting and instructional facilities in baseball. The agonizing wait for the big payoff is over, but, ironically, Cedric Tallis, the man who deserves the credit for assembling the Royals organization, is now Gabe Paul's assistant in New York. 
So, when these teams square off beginning Saturday, the two major theories on how to build a winner will be put to the test. Here's how the match-ups look: 
Hitting: The Yankees offense is the more explosive, and in a short series, this could be a big difference. Only California hit fewer home runs than the Yanks. Moreover, John Mayberry, f\ansas City's only legitimate long· ball threat, has hit just 13 this year. Both teams get tremendous run production from the middle of their lineups, so a key factor should be the leadoff men. The Yankees possess the league's best leadoff combination of Mickey Rivers and Roy White. Rivers, had he not been hurt for the final two weeks of the regular season, would have scored 100 runs, stolen 50 bases, and driven in 70 runs. Those figures make him baseball's best leadoff man. Right behind him is White, the Yankee unsung hero, who after twelve years will be playing in his first post-season series. The Royals have been unable to find a duo that can reach base as often as the Rivers/White team. This is evidenced by the fact that neither Hal McRae nor George Brett, the American League·~ two top hitters, had driven in as many runs as Rivers at the time .of his injury, despite their lower batting positons. If the Royals can't come up with an effective leadoff pair for the playoffs, the burden will fall upon Mayberry, whose stats were helped by hitting behind Brett and McRae. It's very difficult to rely on one man in the playoffs and win.
.. 
Edge: New York 
Fielding: The Royals are a solid fielding team with the exception of the Buck Martinez-Bob Stinson cat~hing tandem and the platoon of Jim Wohlford­fom Poquette in left field. They possess the American League's three best fielders at their respective positions with Fred Patek at shortstop, George Brett at third and Amos Otis in center.. Otis is most valuable to the Royals as he helps cover up the left field deficiency. You can be sure, however, that the Yankees won't wait long _to test the arms of 
Martinez and Stinson. 
The Royals will also be running. but against the AL's best catcher in Thurman Munson, the spearhead of the Yankee defense. However, the Yankees have other serious weaknesses. Willie Randolph should be one of the top second basemen in the game within two years, but he is making the typical rookie mistakes. Freet ~tanley has yet to prove that he is a bona fide major league shortstop, but he plays because Jim Mason is his backup. Mason raised his batting average 30 points this year to a resounding .184. His fielding percentage wasn't much better. Finally, when Lou Piniella plays right field, the Yankees field the worst trio of throwing arms in recent memory. The Royals should hold a track meet running against White and Rivers. 
Edge: Decisively Kansas City Team Speed: On paper, the Royals have a decisive edge with 7 players who stole 20 or more bases. However, the Yankee team speed is vastly under­rated. Rivers covers more ground than any other center fielder, slightly compensating for his weak arm, and he circles the bases faster than anyone except Bake McBride. White and Randolph are other 
legitimate threats to steal.  
Edge:  A Slight One To Kansas City.  _  
Pitching:  Here is where the Yankee's hopes lie,  as  
the top two staffs in the AL collide.  

It's amazing that the Yanks won so easily with the mediocre year posted by Catfish Hunter. Hunter and Ed Figueroa, a legitimate Cy Young candidate, will be the first two starters. After that, Billy Martin has problems choosing from a deep starting rotation. Lefty Ken Holtzman will probably get the nod over Dock Ellis or Doyle Alexander due to previous playoff experience. 
The Royals probably wish they could find Steve B,usby a new right elbow, and Paul Splittorff a new left hand. Without these two, their starting staff is decimated. Splittorff may hurl joining Dennis Leonard and converted reliever Doug Bird as the series starters. However, the Royals' pitching burden will be felt by their bullpen core of Mark Littell and Steve Mingori. Littell is the ace, but he has a history of control problems. The Yankees counter with a fine duo of Sparky Lyle and the much-underrated Dick Tidrow. Yet, if their starters pitch up to par, the relievers won't be needed. 
Edge: With The Starting Staff, New York. Summary: In McRae and Brett, the Royals have the top two hitters in the AL for average, but without Mayberry driving in the runs, they are severely handicapped. Chris Chambliss, a clutch hitter all year, will be a key figure for the Yanks. 
Ano,ther point to remember is that Kansas City is the only field in the AL with an artificial playing surface. This represents a defensive advantage for their infielders. 
Both cities are starving for a champion. The Royals are the first winrier of any kind for Kansas City, in over 20 years of major league baseball. For Yankee fans, 1964 seem!i like ages ago. 
Defense is just as importatn as anything else in a short series, but pitching has always been decisive in the past. For that reason, I'll take the Yankees in five. 

points of the game. "We'll be have such a fine facility for hockey 
making comments involving the and is even more fortunate to have 
finer points of hockey pertaining to one of the finest teams in the 
situations and occurences that country. Hockey Expo is an 
hockey fans sometimes miss during attempt to introduce you to this fine 
the course of the game,'' states sport and the Notre Dame hockey 
Smith. team so that when hockey season is 
Following the. scrimmage the upon us you'll know what all the 
Irish will be handing out free team excitement is about. 
pictures and will be available to 
autograph these 11 x 14 portraits. 
Heavens goes
The team will also be available to 
pose for pictures taken with their 
under the knife
favorite Irish leer. 

Hockey is probably one of the What was originally diagnosed 
fastest, most action-filled sports in as a bruised knee on Jerome 
the world. Its ranks are growing by Heavens has been discovered to be 
leaps and bounds with more com­torn cartilage. Heavens underwent 
munities building hockey arenas surgery yesterday and is not ex­
every day. Notre Dame is lucky to pected back for at least six weeks. 
B-ball tickets to go on sale 
Season basketball tickets will be 
available to students beginning 
Tuesday, Oct. 12. The cost of a 
reserve seat season ticket will be 
$32 for the lower arena and $24 for 
the bleachers. There is a limit of 
one ticket per student. These costs 
average out to $2 per game for a 
lower arena seat and $1.50 per 
game for a bleacher seat as 
compared with the public reserved 
seat price of $4 and $3. Approxim­
atly 5,000 seats will be held for 
students. 
Those Notre Dame students who 
made a deposit in the spring to 
reserve a ticket for the basketball 
season can obtain their ticket at the 
Ticket Sales Windows on the 
second floor of the ACC from 9 
a.m. to 4 p.m. (including the noon hour) on Tuesday, Oct. 12 through Friday, Oct. 15. 
Upon presentation of a student IDthe "Balance Due" will be collected and the student will receive his ticket. Seating priority was determined at the time of deposit in the spring, so the time and day that a student obtains his ticket will not affect where he is seated. The Ticket Office will accept only one ID and one payment from one student. 
If a student does not obtain his ticket before Friday, ct. 15 that student will lose his seating priori­ty. All unclaimed· tickets will be offered for sale be_ginning Wedne­sday, Oct. 27.The student's deposit will either be refunded or applied toward purchase of a bleacher seat. 
Any students who did not make a deposit last spring, but would now like to purchase a season ticket may do so after midsemester break. Seniors may purchase tickets from 9 a.m. to noon on Wednesday, Oct. 27; juniors, law and graduate students on the same day from 1 p.m. to 4 p.m.; married students and sophomores on thurs­day Oct. 28, from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m.; freshmen on Friday, Oct. 29, from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. .These hours 
include the noon hour. Married students desirous of purchasing adjacent tickets for 
their spouse must waive their class priority as stated above and wait until thursday, Oct. 28. Tickets for 
the married student will $24 plus $28 for the spouse's tickets, only bleacher seats are available. 
St. Mary's students will also have an apportunity to purchase tickets according to the above schedule. The price for St. Mary's students will be the same as the Notre Dame Students, $24. Howe­ver, only bleacher seats will be available for sale. 
Notre Dame & St. Mary's stude­nts wishing to sit together must purchase their tickets consecutively according to class priority. The Ticket Office will accept one ID and one payment from one individual. 
AP top twenty 
The Top Twenty teams in The Associated Press college football poll, with first place votes in parentheses, season records and total points. Points based on 20-18-16-14-12-10-9-8-7-6-5-4-3-2­
1:  
1. Michigan (52)  4-0-0  1.182  
2. Pitts (3)  4-0-0  992  
J. Oklahoma (3)  4-0-0  914.  
4. Georgia (2)  4-0-0  870  
5. UCLA  3-0-1  658  
6. Nebraska  3-0-1  648  
7. Maryland  4-0-0  500  
8. Kansas  4-0-0  500  
9. Missouri  3-1-0  389  
10. Ohio St.  2-1-1  324  
11. So. Calif.  3-1-0  314  
12. Florida  3-1-0  207  
13. Boston Col.  3-0-0  165  
14. Notre Dame  3-1-0  142  
15. Texas Tech  2-0-0  106  
16. Texas  2-1-0  43  
17. Texas A&M  3-1-0  27  
18. Arkansas  3-1-0  22  
19. No. Carolina  4-1-0  20  
20. Louisiana St.  2-1-1  17  


•) 


