
server 
Vol. XI, No. 31 an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's Tuesday, October 12, 197& 
No complaints voiced about 8 a.m. exams 
by Diane Wilson students or the teachers have to go Staff Reporter on Tuesdays and Thursdays. Although there are some prob­lems with the new scheduling most 

With midterms upon Notre of these can be worked out by the Dame, one of the most notable student and his teacher. When a changes has been the time of the conflict arises it should be worked exams. There will no longer be any out with the teachers involved. If a evening exams. All exams will now solution can not be worked out the be scheduled 8TT10. that's Bam on student should go to student affairs Tuesday and Thursday. This has or to the Provost for help. caused some scheduling conflicts According to Gassman, the new as some students have more than exam policy will "benefit the stu­one exam scheduled on the same dents" but will cause more work day. for the faculty. Teachers will now 
According to the Registrar's have to work harder on exams to Office there has been no student make them the right length cover­feedback concerning over sched­ing the right material. If a student uling of exams. Mike Gassman, takes a test that is so long nobody student body president. hasn't had comes close to finishing and a any feed-back to the student gov­curve is not adjusted to this fact ernment. Although there have then the student should report this been some problems, there have to student affairs or the Provost. not been enough to cause any real Fr.·James T. Burtchaell, Univer­worry. Most of these are worked sity provost, was the founder of the 
Candidates receive criticism,
out between the student and his new exam system. Burtchaell says professor. the system will "be kept all year" The exam schedule is under· its and then evaluated. He claims that first test with midterm exams. there is no way to make any 

praise on Columbus holiday
There were several reasons for the accurate appraisal of the policy change. First, by having exams in after such a short time. Gassman A major ethnic holiday domina­. Midwest. Soviet Union. the morning. the evenings are free noted that many of the people who ted the campaign movements of At a wreath-laying ceremony at a Carter went to a Columbus Dav to the students to study, relax and are complaining are upperslassmen President Ford and Jimmy Carter statue of Christopher Columbus mass in Chicago with Mayor Rich­join in extracurricular activities. who have not given the new system yesterday as they continued a quest outside Washington's Union Sta­ard J. Daley and various Italian­Second, by having the tests in a set a try. "Half of one semester is not for votes among immigrant families tion, Ford declared that "the American political leaders, and was time slot--presently one hour--they Iong enough," he said. "If they and their descendants. Ford, in a people of the Old World still look to a feature attraction of the city's can not be excessively long. This would use more time to test the published interview, accused his the New World as the champion of Columbus Day parade. will mean shorter tests for students new system they would have a Democratic opponent of "pure human rights. America has been Daley gave Carter another ring­which will "benefit the students" more accurate idea of how the demagoguery" in recent campaign their hope and their help and we ing endorsement, praising him as a according to Gassman, although it system works and many of the attacks. will never let them down." president who would eliminate will be more work for the teachers problems would be worked out." Each candidate used a special He made no mention in his brief "leadership without direction" and to make shorter tests. The third According to Gassman the sche­Columbus Day event to attempt to speech of the Eastern European heard Carter declare a joint com­reason midterms have been moved duling of exams is an administra­gain favor among predominantly nations which have occupied a mitment by himself and Democrat­to the morning is to encourage tive decision. It is not the decision Catholic ethnic blocks of voters, central place in recent campaign ic leaders could "restore our more teachers to give tests during of the Executive Council, and it viewed by some observers as a key oratory. following Ford's remark in people's confidence in their own class. rather than out of class. If should be left up to the Administra­to winning some populous industri­the debate with Carter last week government." the tests are given in class neither tion. al states from the Northeast to·the they were not dominated by the Ford's attack on Carter appeared 
in the San Francisco Examiner. whose editor, Reg Murphy. inter­viewed the President in Texas over the weekend. Ford accused the Democratic nominee of impugning his integrity by raising questions 



0-C robberies down from last year 
by Mary Mungovan ted. vandals because they live in low-in­last Tuesday to discuss' the· problem · 
about his past campaign finances Senior Staff Reporter ''So far there have been no come areas. have many portable of off-campus crime. and relationship with lobbyists.complaints of a failure of police valuables like stereos, TVs, calcu­"South Bend police informed us Carter has demanded Ford hold cooperation,'' she explained. ''Po­lators and typewriters, and come they are putting increased foot 
a formal news conference to answerSouth Bend Police report ten lice normally respond quickly to and go at predictable times. patrols into the 'five-points area' questions about a 1973 audit by the off-campus student residences calls. On their arrival, their just south of campus," Gassman Internal Revenue Service whichwere burglarized during the month procedure includes checking for Gassman talks to Pollee announced. "Squad car patrols said in 1972. Ford used money from of September, Darlene Palma, 

fingerprints. determining the had already been increased for this 
a home town bank account inoff-campus housing director, an­..

method of entry. pinpointing the Student Body President Mike area. Michigan which contained somenounced yesterday. Palma noted time, and talking to neighbors. Gassman and vice-president Mike Gassman indicated the foot pat­political pay
this figure was somewhat lower contributions to for 
They will also call in detectives if Casey met with . City Attorney rols will be primarily concerned some clothing and a family skithan the fourteen robberies repor­
these procedures produce no Brunner, South Bend Police Divis­with the prevention of burglaries vacation.
ted in September, 1975. 
leads." ion head Ford, Captain Gisch of the and assualts, while regular patrols The audit report said Ford"Most of the city's burglaries Palma noted that students are a Midnight Patrol and Captain will still be handling most alcohol agreed to count the clothing ex­occur in areas of high concentration "good target" for neighborhood Thompson of the evening patrol and nuisance problems. penditures as personal income and of student or elderly housing, •' she "Because the foot patrols aare pay tax onthe amount. The auditindicated. · voluntary," Gassman advised, indicated Ford reimbursed theThe highest incidence of thefts "students should not try to hassle account for the vacation.
occurred in census district 10 (just officers or aggravate residents with He also said Ford should explainsouth of campus, bordered by Hill, drunkenness or rowdy parties if the IRS finding that he got along onMadison, Twick.ingham and Edison they want the extra patrols to stay $5 or less per week in pocket money streets) which reported 16 burglar­around." during ·1972. The IRS acceptedies. Residents in census district 6 Palma suggested off-campus Ford's explanation, which was that(west of the river between Lincoln­many expenses were picked up byway West and Portage) reported 12 
students should take the following others.
burglaries; district 19 (north of precautions: Carter, while not accusing Forddowntown) reported 11; distr;ct 7 --install locks on doors and win­of any wrongdoing. has criticized(between Portage and the river) dows. 
long-term federal officials whoreported 10; and district 8 (just --report all burglaries immediately develop close friendships with lob­south of Notre Dafle) reported only (students can dial 911 for a direct 1 

byists. as Ford acknowledges hav­four. line to the police). 

ing done. 

l
The highest concentrations of -vary their schedules, ·trying not to 
students occur in census districts leave residences vacant at predic­"l personally resent this attack six, seven, eight, nine and ten, table times. on my integrity." Ford was quoted according to Palma. -not leave valuables like jewelry as saying inthe interview. "He 
Police _have apprehended one and cash lying around. knows the charges are not true. suspect who is allegedly respon­"If students plan on leavin~ the1r They are pure demagoguery.'' sible for four or five of the student residences over break, they should In a statement issued Monday, robberies. The suspect is reported­try to leave vah:ables either on Carter also assailed Ford for trying ly a minor and had only a small campus or with their landlord," to take credit during the foreign 
amount of the stolen property in his Palma advised. policy debate for signing a bill that possession at the time of the arrest. "Students can also notify South imposed tax penalties on U.S. firms "Most of the burglaries have Bend police if they ever plan on that cooperate with an Arab trade been fourid to be committed by leaving for a short period of time boycott against Israel. neighborhood youths as opposed to and patrol cars will make periodic "He fought tooth and nail professional thieves," Palma sta-checks," she added. [rontfnued on page 6] 

Hall. Entertainment included a juggling act and a choral presentation of "She's too Fat for Me." [Photo by Anne Frcrtel] 


~--------------------------------------------------------------------­
~-----~~~N=M=R=E=D~AM~~E-S~A~IN~T~·M~A=~=,s~T=H~~~T~R~E=~: ~UD~TGOVERNMENT t 
2 the observer Tuesday, October 12, 1976 
,....News Briefs____.......,_.. 
~=====================================World 
Mao's widow arrested 
LONDON 1 Chairman Mao Tse-Tung's widow, Chiang Ching, and three other ultraleftist Chinese Communist party Politburo members have been arrested by authorities in Peking on charges of plotting a coup, the Daily Telegraph reported yesterday from the Chinese capital. 


Jet crash kills 89 
NEW DELHI,lndia-An Indian Airlines Caravelle jet en route to Madras crashed yesterday .just after takeoff from Bombay's Santa Cruz airport early Tuesday, killing all 89 passengers and stx crew members aboard, India's national news agency reported. The three-engine jetliner crash-landed at the end of the runway after one of its engines caught fire. 

t=-=========================== National 


FAA member fired 
WASHINGTON -Former Federal Aviation Administrator· Alexander P. Butterfield said yesterday that President For took ofticc with a mandate to fire him. Butterfield, who first revealed the existence of the White House taping system in congressional testimony, said that when Nixon left office there was an agreement that Butterfield would be dismissed. 

t=-===-=======--=-=============-=-====-===-· Local 


The toll is for thee 
INDIANAPOLIS -Despite greater availability of gasoline and an increase in traffic, the Indiana Toll Toad Commission has no plans to lower tolls that have brought in a record $26 million this year. 
The price motorists pay for using the 156-mile toll road across northern Indiana was raised to a maximum of $3.50 during the height of the energy crisis. And state officials are seeking federal authorization to continue collecting the tolls indefinitely to pay for increased maintenance costs. 


,_On Campus Today_---... 
12:15 p.m. english lecture series. "apuleius, pater, and the 
4:30p.m. 7 p.m. 7:30p.m. 7:30p.m. 
7:30p.m. 10 p.m. 

Blazing Saddles 
bites the dust 

Due to difficulties in the mail, he film Blazing Saddles will not be 
~~~w~o~s !~~~~~le~~d T~~c~ov;~ 
possible film dates for the semester 
have been filled, the Junior Class 
:!~t"~~!~:fe~~soringamovieuntil 
The Observer IS publ1~ht>d Monday through f rrday and weekly durrng the summer se~SIOn, except during the exam and vacat1on perrods The Observer I~ published by students of the Un1versity of Notre Dame and St Mary's College Subscriptions may be purchased for $20 per year 
($10 per semester) from The Obser­ver, Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 Second class postage paid, 
Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 The Observer 1s a member of the Assocrated Press All reproduct1on 
rrghtsarereserved 
bildungsroman" by eugene brzenk, n.d. room 220 O'shaughnessy. sponsored by the english dept. 
faculty meeting. father hesburgh's annual address to the faculty. washington hall. 
organizational meeting. collegiate jazz festival. staff and interested newcomers. Iafortune ballroom 
charismatic prayer meeting. Iafortune 2nd floor room d. 
meeting. head start orientation for all interested students, knights of columbus meeting room. 
panel discussion. rev. ernan mcmullin, n.d., john roos, n.d. library lounge. 
knights of columbus meeting in council chambers. refreshments will be served in honor ~columbus day. 

-ANNouNcEs TRYouTs + 
A DELICAfERBALANCE  :  
Tue~.  by Edward Albee Od. 12 & Wed. Od. 13 -7:30 p.m. Uttl~ Theatre  • •  
Callbacks OCt. 14-7:30p.m.-O'Laughlin Audition informat1"on available in Speech  • •  

~,_._a_n_d_D_r_a_ma_o_f_fi_ce_Rm_._1_1o_.'_M_o_re_au_H_a_II,_S_a_in_t_M_a_rv_'s_.: 


Th Wh H I
e ite ouse nn 
• T on,ight 
,
Pitcher Beer Nite wi"th -F-ai"th 
2839 No. 51th St., N.Hes1 
Take U.S. 31 to Niles, NQrth on 51, 3 miles. 





Oct. 28 swine flu vaccinations to be available at Stepan Center 
by John Moran Staff Reporter 
An injection of the swine flu vaccine may be one of the first things to greet Notre Dame-St Mary's students upon return from midsemester break. 
The shot will be available free on Oct. 28 at the Stepan Center to all students, faculty and family mem hers who desire it. 
Vaccination day here is a part of 

the nationwide effort toimmunize all story, was to have issued a state­
Americans 18 and older against the 
swine flu virus. The project began 
here yesterday with the administra 
tion of a special dosage of the 
vaccine to certain high risk groups. 
This phase of the program will 
continue through the remainder of 
this week. 
The vaccination effort was initi­
ated following the outbreak of 
swine flu at Ft. Dix, N.J. las 
January. The virus was respon­
sible for one death and was tl1e firs 
known occurence of the disease 
among humans since the 1920's. 
Advocates of the program have 
cited the possibilities of a recur 
renee of a nationwide .influenza 
epidemic similar to those ·experi­
enced in the winters of 1957-8 and 
1968-9. The '57-8 outbreak of 
Asian flu was responsible for the 
deaths of 70,000 Americans and 
resulted in a loss of some $3.9 
billion due to lost person-hours. 
*The ~bserverl
r 
Night Editor-Debbie Dahrling 
Asst. Night Editor-Leigh Tun­
akan 
Layout Staff-Marti Hogan, D­
enise Persinger, Joe Wheaton, 
Maureen Sajbel 
Editorial Layout-Chris Smith 
Features Layout-Tim 0'Reiley 
Sports Layout ·Ray 0'Brien 
I
Typists-Kittv Conkli~, Susan 
1 
Shell• nburger, Mel Celeste, Kath·.' Egbert 
Early Morning Typist-Karen 
Chiames 
Day Editor-Mary Pat Tarpey Copy Reader-Fred Herbst 
l Photographer-Anne Frazel ) 
......
....___,_ __ -­
~ t Oct. 12, 13 1 ~ • showing of j 
q 

~ • BLAZING t 

4-SADDLES~··------------~----------------­~~:NCELLED/ :: , ......++++++++++... 
1 problems t • + ALL SMC CLUBS AND : 

=-•~: :oRGANIZATIONS WHO WAN"Il 
~ 

The '68-9 epidemic Hong Kong flu claimed over 30,000 lives and was responsible for an estimated $900 million worth of damage. The total cost of the immunization project has been projected at $135 million. 
The program has, however, met with opposition from some medical authorities. Many contend that there is little reason to fear a major outbreak of the disease. The Indiana State Medical Association, according to an Associated Press 
ment which "gives strong evidence against massive swine flu immuniz­ations.'' 
Other difficulties have centered about an unwillingness of vaccine manufacturers to claim liability for possible side effects resulting from the vaccine's administration. In 
response to this Congress promptly ,..._El---~---r-----,--------....._ 
passed legislation making the gov­ernment the mediator of any legal action filed in regards to the vaccine. Nevertheless the dispute seems to have generated a wide­spread fear that the swine flu shot 
may do more harm than good. 
But according to Joel Burian, student intern at the Notre Dame Student Infirmary, this fear is largely unfounded. The vaccine was administered Oct. 1 to some 6,000 persons in the Indianapolis area, and, Burian reported, as of 


Gauloises Caporal $.61j pock Gitane Filters $.60 pack 
La Caron a Whiffs $1.15 pack Exports A's $.70 pack 

• 

• . ' • • 
• 
• 
• 
• 
++++++..++++++++++++ 
77FUNDS FOR THE.l976 - +i  
SCHOOL YEAR  •  
'·  

MUST SUBMIT A PROPOSAL • 

TO P. 0. BOX 1028 LE MANS: 
BY • 
•

FRIDAY OCT 15
' • • • • 


QUESTIONS •• CALL LAURIE AT 4946 • 
. 
last Tuesday there were no com­plaints of harmful side effects. 
Also, in a government testing of the vaccine it was reported that Jess than 2 percent of volunteers injec­ted with the regular dosage (200 units a--New Jersey--76) felt any side effects at all. These ranged from sore arms to slight fevers, both of which lasted 24 hours ~r less. 
The vaccine may, however, ad­versely affect some people. It is recommended that persons with a known allergy to eggs receive the vaccine only under special medical supervision. Persons with a fever . should wait for it to pass before receiving the shot. Also, the swine flu shot should not be given for at least 14 days following the adminis­tration of anv other type of vaccine. 
11 
Barber & Hair 
a 
Style Shop Open six days a week 
Sat 8 to 3:00 
1437 N. Ironwood 
South Bend 
0

Appointment o~y 
27706 5 -1·' 
S 
Close to Campus 



!_~esday, October 12, 1976 the observer 
3 




Gassman lists campus-wide cable TV proposals 
by Marian Ulicny Staff Reporter 

Mike Gassman, student body president, has initiated action on last year's preliminary studies concerning a campus-wide cable TV hook-up. 
According to Gassman, Jordan Equipment Co. of South Bend did a preliminary report on Feb. 27, 1975. The report listed three proposals with various ranges of operation. 
The first proposal would route cables to all campus rooms. This would expand the entertainment system to include Chicago and South Bend stations. This system 
.::=so;t=::::::::=t===:b=::::W~=::Jb::::~~>!~~­
· ·· · 
• • h /d r6 

J~or passage

0 pt'm'sm e 
require no special license because 

Of lowered lnd drl.nkl·ng age o! it~ 
retention within the close~­
• c1rcutt system. Gassman stated tt 
' • . , by Bob Varettoru cs~ ~nd analyzmg other states Staff Reporter d.r~~kmg laws. . . We are trymg.. to _do a_ll the 

By January fake ID's and the homework we can, s~td Kltnge?­
weekend· exodus to Michigan may 
berger. He added, We are tn be a thing of the past for Notre 
good shape.. Last y_ear we mad~ a Dame and St. Mary's students. really ~ood tmpressmg. the legtsl-The bill to lower .the Indiana 
ators ltked us. We h~ve a talented drinking ageto 19 has a good 
?unch of_ people_and tf we have the chance of being passed next year, t~formatwn ~.thmk we can get the according to Jerry Klingenberger, 
btll through; . . co-ordinator of the ND Student Last year s lobbymg effort, Kim-Lobby. genberg(fr stated, suffered from 
"I'm optimistic," Klingenberger 
inexperience. He ~ai~ the Stud~~t said. "and I was pessimistic last Lobby g~t~ered dnnkmg and ~rtvt­year. Last year, I was surprised we ng stattsttcs . from the nattonal got 47 votes." 
Safety Counctl only to find that A year ago the same bill came 
those st.~tisti~s were "not goodfour votes short of the 51 needed 
enough._ This y~ar, t~e Stud~nt for passage. Supporters withdrew Lobby ts gathermg mformatwn the bill before the actual vote in from within the state. order to prevent its defeat. Klingenberger said this year's "This year," Klingenberger said, election, including the governor's "the time is right." race, should not have an effect on The new• assembly will not the outcome of the bill. He said convene until Jan. 6, 1977. The most legislators would like to see 
Student Lobby, however, has been the lower drinking age bill passed. working on the drinking age probl­The Student Lobby also sponsor­
em since the summer. Since then, ed the voter registration drive in according to Klingenberger, mem­September, and in the future will bers have been researching the sponsor a "legislative visitation voting records of legislators, com­program." There are 22 members piling drinking and driving statisti-of the lobbying staff. 

HAIRCUT. $5.00 
, 
BLOWSTYLING-$4.5C 
HAIRCUT AND BLOW STYLING ~ COM I NATION -$8.50 
u . . . 
"r. , r ..., •. RK produ1 t,. 
PERMANENT WAVING BY NATURAL MAN $25 

aueen'~ (agt{t;~
54533 TERRACE LANE Tues.. Wed.. Sat. 8:30-5:30. Thurs. & Fri. 8:30-8:30 PHONE 277-1691 
<lrbr 
JSnigljh"i 
MEN'S HAIRSTYLING 
'E" CO!\CEPT in llllisrx hair~tyling fnr Mrn and 'h.,lo•·au•d on ourlu\<Prh·>rl. SIP COHl-:J b) th~ fin-pla•·e in a rt'laxt•d atmosrht-n-. Co:'\1 PLETE PIU\ \n in uur indi\idual 
't~1ing •mit~. nsT SEP.nn. fnr lan-fn•t• I'Ub ~nd 
~~~.: ;'Tt~t
1~R\ 
would cover FM radio as well as TV stations. 
The second proposal outlined a closed-circuit system which would distribute amplifiers and tie-in points across campus. A camera could be hooked up within the loop to broadcast network programs or events at a specific point on campus. 
The third proposal would add a tie-in with the library to provide audio-visual reference material and education aids. 
Gassman sees many advantages in campus cable TV. He maintains that installation would be relatively easy to handle with the tunnel system already in use for heating pipes and phone and electrical lines. 
Cable TV could solve the prob­lem at WSND, Gassman added. Federal Communications Commis­sion (FCC) decision is pending to cut WSND's power from 200 to 20 milliwatts. "There's a very good chance of it going through," Gass­man noted. "If it does, it would do away with the AM station. That's just not enough power." 
A closed-circuit system would open two possibilities. A student­sponsored FM station could be established, offering progressive radio programming similar to WRBR. Gassman stated. It would not need a new FCC license because the programs would be transmitted solely on camous and not through the air. Advertising could be reduced with the station's cost primarily covered with instal­lation. 
A student -oriented FM station would parallel the existing WSND­FM. which is directed toward the fine arts. Gassman explain_ed a current ·controversy revolves around possible ho_ckey coverage on the classical FM station. "This coverage is really not compatible with that kind of program." he stated. "However, that wouldn't offer much service to the students of the Notre Dame community." Two stations would be able to split the areas of broadcasting empha­sis. 
Closed circuit system 
A second possibility would be organizing a student-run TV sta­twn. This set-up would also 
would be difficult to operate stu­dent programs daily, but "it would be practical for evening." He listed workshops. athletic events, meetings. interviews and student news shows as possible areas of coverage, adding, "it's just unlim­ited what they could do." According to Gassman. lecture classes with large attendance could be shown at their daily times. allowing students unable to attend to audit in their rooms. Lectures with overflow attendance could be split up into several rooms with TV monitors. "This would be helpful in business courses," Gassman said. "More students would be able to sign. up. Feasibly, non-bus­iness-majors could be placed in the overflow rooms with moni­tors.·· The closed-circuit system would provide more backing for the University communication arts, he added. It would provide immediate 


THE HEIDLEBURG INN 
US 31 IN NILES MICH. PHONE 683-6515 
*ANNOUNCES BIG SAVINGS* ON 
PIZZA & PITCHER NITES 
EVERY TUESDAY & THURSDAY 
REDUCED PRICES 
9pm-lam 
Try us for lunch Daily 11:am-lam Take the Quickie to Dinner the Heidleburg
Sunday 11:am-Midnite 
programming and production ex­perience for broadcast journalism students. 
Gassman stated the set-up could also benefit the security system. A sequenced monitor in the security building could shift focus from various cameras placed in high-sec­urity locations across campus. 
"The entertainment side really isn't the whole of the idea," Gassman stressed. "It should take a back seat to ~the educational aspects of the , system. The ultimate of such a system would be providing access to a computerized microfilm reference section in the library." 
The main disadvantage is the cable system's cost, stated Gass­man. The approximate figure of the closed-loop system in the 1975 report was $500,000. "However, this is something spread over a long period of time." Gassman stated. "It would service the University on a permanent. long­term basis. Hopefully. it would be 
I 
PREPARE FOR: 
MCAT• OAT• LSAT• SAT 
GRE • GMAT • OCAT • CPAT • VAT 
Over 31 YNU of experience 1nd succeu. Sm111 cluses. Vol· umlnous home study m1ter111s. Coursesthll 1re const1nt1yUPdlted. Centers OPen CSIYS C. WHkends 111 ye1r. Completet1pe flcllltles for review of c1111 lessons 1nCS for use or supplementlry mltltl"llls. M1ke-ups ror missed lessons 11 
our centers. 
ECFMG • FLEX 
NAT'L MEDICAL & DENTAL BOARDS 
Flexible Programs & Hours 
Our broad range ot programs provtdes an umbrf'lla of lf'!>ltnQ kno.. how that enables us to otler lhP bE-st prrparat•on ava•tat'llt· lurTht•r tmprovrng the tndtvtdual course vou vt> !!.Pie>ctrar1 
(812) 339·1127 
~:::::~~:·,~~:~ol;s also 
Other campuses Most clAsses-8 weeks before exam 
Outsrde NY StatE' Only 
~:k~rH 800-221-9840 
CpntPf, '" Mt101 US C•tlf'1 
done with University funds and not cost the students anything." If the need for additional funding arose. the charge would be approximately $5-$10 per student per year. 
Two maintenance engineers ac­quainted with the system's opera­tion would also be necessary at all times for repairs, Gassman -stated. 
According to a student sune\ taken in 1975. 49 percent definite)\ wanted cable TV. while JO percent were interested to a lesser degree. Gassman interpreted the high!~ interested percentage as those will­
mg to pay tor the sen·tce. 
He added. "'When the survn was taken. the cable TV idea wa\ looked at ju~t from the side of entertainment TV, not educational. 
Now, the educational \·alue realh outweigh~ the entertainment \ai. ue. 
Gassman stated all propo~ition' will be discussed and a deci~iun reached at-a meeting Oct. 25 \\ith Dr. Jamc~ Frick. \·icc-president for public relations and development. 


~ir 1~ichard's 



Award Winning State Hairstyling 
HAIR STYLINGMember of 1976 
Stylist
FORMEN& WOMEN 

129 Dixieway South (31 N in Roseland, half mile N. of Campus) 
277-0734 
l ~N-H.
MPI.III 
EDUCATIONAL CENTER 
TEST P~EPAAATION 
SPECIALISTS SINCE 1838 
Box Q, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 


Doonesbur
Phone•(219)283-8661 [ND)

*The Observer 
(219)284-5365 [SMC] 

an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's 
EDITORIAL BOARD 
The Observer is published by students of the University of Thomas O'Neil Editor-in-ChiefNotre Dame and St Mary"s College. It does not necessarily 

Dan Sanchez Managing Editor

rPflect the policies of either institution The news is reported 
Chris Smith Asst Managing Ed. 

a~ accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials Gregg Bangs Executive Editor
repre~Pnt the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. 
Val Zurblis Executive Editor

Comnwntanes, opinions and letters are the views of their 
Pat Hanifin Editorial Editorauthor'> Column spaQ' is available to all members of the Bob Mader Exec News Editorwmmun tty, and letters are encouraged to promote the free 

Maureen Flynn Campus Editor

Pxprt·~'iton of varying opinions on campus. 
Marti Hogan St. Mary's Editor 
l~u~irwss Manager Tom Fronczak 
Don Reimer Copy EditrJr Adverti'>ing Manager Mike Miller Tim O'Reiley Features Editor 
1':10to Editor Tony Chifari FrPd Herbst Sports Editor Production Manager Martha L. r=:anning 
----------------------------------~· 
Tuesday, October 12, 1976 
Come, let us reason together 

Fr. Hesburgh's idea of calling a sentatives of the government (Carter conference at Notre Dame on abortion. an favors this); representatives of religious idea he advanced Sunday during Carter's groups; rational representatives of the visit, is excellent. It might inject a opposing viewpoints. Such a conference much-needed element of reason into a could penetrate the simplistic ''murder'' debate notable for its irrationality. vs. "privacy" arguments to examine 
It is painfully obvious by now that the their presuppositions. It might even find abortion battle produces fanatics the way some common ground on which to base a a decaying log fosters maggots and rational resolution of the battle. fungus. The anti-abortion group often The conference could not pull abortion appears to be a band of religious fanatics. from the political sphere, contrary to 
Yet it, more than anything, needs broad Carter's remark that it would "help to support from non-committed and loosely remove the political tension from the committed citizens. The Su­discussion.'' The issue involves what the preme Court's abortion decision can be laws should be and what the goverr ment over-ruled only by the Court itself should do; it will not become non-po itical (extremely unlikely) or by a constitutknal however much Carter and Ford wish to amendment, which needs broad and avoid it. But it is the boast of a persistent support to be adopted. democracy that free men can rationally 
Fanaticism on the pro-abortion side and peacefully decide how they will run also substitutes for serious thought. their lives; it would be tragic if America "Pro-choice" advocate~ seldom pene­failed to live up to that boast. trate beneath their own rhetoric of Notre Dame would be a fine place to women's rights to deal with the question C.iscus~ abortion in the spirit of de­of whether the woman is really the only mocracy. As the nation's leading person involved. Hence they at least risk Catholic university, it claims that reason favoring mass homicide (not "murder" and faith, a commitment to free discus­which implies knowledge that human life sion and a commitment to fundamental is being taken). They also fail to face the eithical principles, not only can co-exist potential social hazards arising from the but can also support each other. It would changing laws and morals. be appropriate that this University be the 
The two groups lack a common ground one to send out the )ld Biblical call, and seldom bother even to look for one. "Come, let us reason together." Starting from contradictory, often unex­amined principles, they cannot carry on a rational discussion with each other, and so resort to the only alternative· an 
%Observer 

endless shouting match. It is no wonder that politicians avoid the battle likt swine flu, hedging and dodging on the issue to avoid the wrath of either side. 
Hesburgh' s suggestf!d confer­ence could help change all this. It should 
Editorials 

ideally include scholars; ethicists; repre­
......
c: 
0 
...c: 
Q..
·­



0 
"1 W~T YOU To ~oW 1\.\~T PULUN' il-!IS 1110RN 0JT OF MY PAW AIN'T 
~~~~~~~'( GOIN' ro fJ\RN YOJ M< UN'DYIN' GRAriTlJDE, BABY•.. II 
REALLY?tlf~U, SEE IF-'f(){J CAN RNO (){/T fAJHYSH&'s RUINING IT FOR. 8f/TH Or~ aJIY SHE'5SPOIL­IN6 THEOlECH/WC£ /IT 
YOU HfARPHeR.! JDANJe, ~ 60! 8RIN6 lJ5 NOT MY RE­
A R8PORTI SPONSIBIUTY. 
\ 

seriously, folks!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
Do they really? 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii art bu c hwaId. 
WASHINGTON--My friend Ros­But immediately the blacks for­
enfeld has a wild theory that. based gave him and he was still in the 
on what is going on in the race. 
presidential carnpaign. both men In the meantime Gerry Ford 
are trying to throw the election. could not avoid his party's pleas 
"I don't believe either man that he run for the office again. He 
wants the job and that's why was dispirited and Betty cheered 
they're trying to out-goof each him up. "Don't forget you have to 
other." campaign against Ronald Reagan 
"That's hard to believe," I said. and if you put a really bad 
"Think about It," he said. organization together he can beat 
I thought about it and came to you." 
the conclusion Rosenfeld could be Ford put his campaign organiza­
right. tion together. started to campaign 
It probably all started when and almost lost the nomination. 
Gerry Ford first came to the White But Reagan goofed and Ford 
House as President and said to squeaked through. His only hope 
Mrs. Ford. ''I said I wouldn't run was that the Republican Party was 
for President in 1976, but how can I in such a shambles after Kansas 
make people believe it?" City that he wouldn't have a 
"Why don't you pardon Richard chance. The polls confirmed this. 
Nixon?" Mrs. Ford suggested. Carter was terrified and went to 
"That's a good idea. If I pardon Miss Lillian and said. "What do I 
Nixon, the press will have to accept do, Ma? You know I don't want to 
the fact that I have no intention of go to Washington." 
running for a full term." His wise mother said "Your have 
Ford pardoned Nixon and every­to do three things. Announce 
one said he blew his chances to be you're going to raise taxes on 
elected in '76. But several months people· s median incomes, attack 
later the rumors started up again President Johnson and give an 
that Ford had aspirations to stay in interview to Playboy telling them 
the White House. "What can we what's really in your heart. It will 
do to stop the rumors?" he asked kill you in the polls.'· 
Mrs. Ford. As usual Miss Lillian was right 
"Why don't I go on the Sixty and Jimmy Carter started going , 
Minutes show and say I wouldn't downhill fast. 
be surprised if Susan had an affair Mr. Ford was horror-stricken 
before she was married? The and said to Mrs. Ford. "Carter is 
American people would never out-goofing me. What do I do 
stand for it." Now?" 
"That could do it," the President Mrs. Ford said, "Why don't you 
said. disclose that you played golf on 
Mrs. Ford went on Sixty Minutes weekends with lobbyists. That 
and the· reaction to her frank could hurt you." 
remarks was more than even she The President leaked stories 
had anticipated. Gerry Ford looked about his weekends with lobbyists, 
safe. but it had no impact at all. and the 
Then the Democrats started hol­polls showed him neck and neck 
ding their primaries and Jimmy with Carter. 
Carter who was just running be­He was desperate and confided 
cause he had nothing else to do, to Mrs. Ford, "I can't understand 
found himself out in front. No one it. No matter what I do I still have a 
in the Carter family could believe chance of winning." 
it. Jimmy went to his mother, Miss Just then the phone rang. Mrs. 
Lillian, and said, "Ma. if I keep up Ford answered it and said to the 
the way I'm going I may win the person on the phone, "Thank you, 
nomination. What am I going to I'll tell the President." She turned 
d0.?" to Mr. Ford and said. "It's good 
"You have no choice, son, but to news. Earl Butz just told a terrible 
talk about 'ethnic purity.' THat sh ethnic joke on an airplane and Ron 
should kill any chances you have of Nessen said it could ruin us.'' 
getting the nomination." 
Jimmy brought up "ethnic puri­For the first time in weeks the 
ty" in his next speech and there President smiled. "Good old Earl. 
h. .. 

was such a hullabaloo about it that He's always there when you need .Carter was certain he was out of it. 
tm. 

Tuesday, October 12, 1976 the observer 
Columbus Day Special 
Did the Irish Discover America? 
By Susan O'Rourke 
Ask any school-child why we celebrate Columbus Day, and he is sure to reply, ''Because he discovered America." 
For years. this morsel of information had LePI accorded the station of inviolate educational dogma. No loyal American questioned it, and those who spoke vaguely of a certain Leif Erickson were regarded with healthy suspicion. A few historians and intellectuals might debate the possibil­ity of a Viking predecessor to Columbus. but for the rank and file of Americans, there was no replacing a legend. 
Across the Atlantic Ocean, on the wild west coast of Ireland, the natives beach their graceful curraghs as their ancestors did .from the time of Christ. Ask them who first ~et foot on American soil, and you will find that in this, as in most things, the lri:>h hold their own intense opinion. 
It was St. Brendan the Navigator. they say. with the aid of God and a sturdy crew of sailor-monks, who sailed to a_ distant shore so beautiful that he called it th·::! Land of Promise of the Saints. 
Born of convert-pare-nts in 484. when the Christian faith was still a noveltv in Ireland. Brendan was placed under the tuiorage of Ere MacDeaghadh, a former Druid turned priest and a man renowned for his wisdom and learning. The young boy soon evidenced a voracious capacity for reading. and his teacher was obliged to keep him cons!amly ~upplied with bO<,ks: 
Not all these volumes were of a devotional nature, for one day Brendan occupied himself with the Imramha, a secular geography that described in fabu-· lous detail the exotic lands supposed to lie to t~e west. In a fit of impetuous disgust at such nonsense, the boy flung the book into the fire, only to be sternly rebuked by his tutor. who was acquainted with the author and swore to his credibility. As a penance, Brendan vowed that he would visit each of the islands listed in the text. 
Many years necessarily had to pass before Brendan could fulfill his promise. In the intervening time he was ordained a priest and established several monastery­schools of fine reputation. But living as he did on the coast of Kerry. with the sound of the sea as a constant reminder. he gathered in 545 fourteen of the brethren who were skilled in nautical crafts. to build a large curragh sturdy enough to withstand a prolonged voyage. 
Over the slender wooden hull thev stretched a covering of animal skins. daubed with pitch to render it waterproof. A triangular sail. also of skins. was secured to a simple crossbar mast. and six short oars rested iii oarlocks on either side. For provisions, the travellers packed dried fruit. nuts, salt meat and skins of water. 
The voyage lasted seven years, in the course of which they visited many islands. describing them so accurately that 




AI Stewart-­tThe Year of the Cat' 
By Jim Coyne 
After seven albums (four imports; three released in the states), one would •hink that AI Stewart would be enjoying the fame and fortune. as do other contemporary music superstars. The only problem is , unless you hail from England, Philadelphia or scattered East Coast cities, you've probably never heard of AI Stewart. With the release of "Year of the Cat," AI is trying very hard (and very brilliantly) to change that situation. 
For those unfamiliar with Stewart, he is an excellent. guitar and keyboards player, besides being one of today's most poetic writers of song lyrics. He composes all of his own songs, and is backed by some of the best session men in the business, including Peter Wood on keyboards, and scholars have been able to identifv most of them. These include the Faroe Islands off the Danish coast. where the ruins still stand of an ancient church called Brcnd;:,n­svik, and the Vestmanneajar (literally. "Irishman's) Islands ncar Iceland. 
Tim  Renwick  on  guitars.  In  1969,  
Stewart's  "Love  Chronicles"  L-P  was  
voted best folk in Britain.  

From there Brendan and his companions continued due west. sailing a long time on the open sea. until they came to a snowy land, which, because of the manv· icebergs. they approached with great difficulty. Historians believe this was NeV:·foundland. their conjecture supported by the discovery of Celtic forms of decorative art in this area. 
Brendan believed he had come to a large island. so when he sailed south in an attempt to get around it. But a viok·nt storm blew him much farther in that direction than he had intended to go. When the sea calmed and he recovered his bearings. Brendan found himself in a tropical land where "frail trees hung with pendant branche-.. red cranes !lew in abundance and the air was tilled with the sweet scent of sun-warmed apples.·· Modern scholars suggest this was Florida, 
Record Releases 
Although rock is now his musical pre-occupation. it is a mellow type of rock. His first American release. "Past. Present, and Future," contains the legendary "Roads to Moscow," which is the number ' .te AI Stewart song at his concerts. "Modern Times." his second US release is his largest selling album to date. 
"Year of the Cat" continues to exempli­fy the talents of Mr. Stewart. There is a slight departure from format, in that no song on the album is over six minutes long. 
Stewart in the past has been known for marathon recordings. The music on "Year of the Cat" is as good, if not a slight bit better than previous efforts. The band is tight. and produces a sound that is recognizably English and undeniably wor­thy of much praise. 
Most of the songs tend to be on the soft rock side. "If it Doesn't Come Naturally, Leave It" is the lone exception. There are three songs that deserve special mention, because they capture Stewart at his best, mu~ically and lyrically. "Sand in Your Shoes" might be the song that 'makes Stewart known to the rest of the country. With its Dylanesque chord progressions, it could be more acceptable to the general public. "Flying Sorcery" and the title tune, "Year of the Cat" are the other two. "Year of the Cat" offers some of the best lyrics anyone has written recently, while the melodic music shows the band at its best. 
As stated in "Year of the Cat,": 
"On a morning from a Bogart movie In a country where they turn back time You go strolling through the crowd like Peter Lorre Contemplating a crime Sh(. .:omes out of the rain in a silk dress running Like a watercolor in the rain Don't bother asking for explanations She'll just tell you that she came In the year of the cat." 

Perhaps this will be Stewart's movie. and like Peter Lorre he'll steal the hearts of Americans, finally attaining the attention and recognition he so deserves. 

Daryl Hall g John Oates-­'Bigger Than Both of Us' By Jim Coyne 
With the release of this, their fifth album, Hall and Oates seem to have found the musical plateau they have been searching for over the past three years. "War Babies" was thought to have been a real declaration of what kind of music the boys wanted to play, but even the production of Todd Rundgren couldn't save 
the  album  from  being  a  critical  and  
commercial disaster.  
The  Philly duo warmed  up their  fans  

once more with their debut album (or RCA, simply entitled ·~oaryl Hall and John but to the huddled little hand. bred on thl' rol'h greY coast of Kern. thi~ wa~ Par;;disl' o.n earth. the legcnclar~· land of Promi~L' of the Saints. 
It was with the greatest reluctance that thcv turned their curragh east. to "~cck the-land of Ireland. wh,ich thcv obtained again in a twelvemonth·~ time . .-. 
'Brendan's unassuming original acL·ount soon pro\-c immense!~ popular with hi-. medieval audience. Since it was re-written manv times. it aL·cumulated a wealth of fabulous additions and theological symbol­ism along the wav. A-. a result. manv -.cholars ~cgard il'>. credibility with a goo~l deal of skepticism. but it i~ no mean faL't that Columbus himself studied Brendan'-, 
travelogue  very  thoughtful!\·  before  his  
own departure.  
Few  people  would  adopt  Brendan·.,  

cause so ferventlY-as to demand that we repaint the Admit;istration Building murals or rename Columbu~. Ohio. But i-. it too much to suppose that our famou-. football n~. "Here come the Irish!" had its origin in the mouth of some sixth-century inhabitant of Newfoundland'! · 
Oates." Released in August of 1975. it wasn't _until late April that the hit single from thts album "Sarah Smile". the album sold well, and Hall and Oates started to enjoy a wave of popularity. 
It's hard to classify the music that Hall and Oates perform. There are traces· of jazz, soul, and rock. The most prevalent ingredient, however, is the soul. Some call it Motown. others call it the Phil~· sound. (Hall and Oates themselves despise this label. claiming that they don't sound like the O'Jays). but whatever you call it. ~·ou can't deny that it is an integral part of the music of Hall and Oates. 
On "Bigger Than Both of Us." this soul is easily recognized in "Crazv Eves" (which should be the next hit sin-gle). "Rich Girl". and "Kerry". There arc a couple of songs ("Room to Breathe" and "You'll Never Learn") that arc more experimental and rock oriented. but for the most part the album deals with the light rhythm and blues sound that is now a Hall and Oates trademark. 
The fact that Hall and Oates are be_coming more accepted nationally is evidenced not only in the airplay given their songs. ("She's Gone." from "Aban­doned Luncheonette" has been rc-rcleas­ed) but in the increasing number of concerts they are doing. 
Hall and Oates are definitely two of the most talented and creative musicians in the business today. It would be a shame if success stymied their creativity and put an end to their search for the perfect musical fusion, as it has with other artists. With the progression of sound through their first five albums, it seems very unlikely that Hall and Oates will lay down and die now. 
"Bigger Than Both of Us," while not as consistant as "Abandoned Luncheonette," is supportive evidence that Hall and Oates will not lay down and die, but rather move on, to bigger and better things. 


the observer Tuesday, October 12, 19~ 

Student Union explains rock concert booking 
by Chris Datzman Staff Reporter 

Every year rumors circulate the campus concerning concert appear-· ances by rock groups. Rumors of engagements by The Who, Grate­ful Dead and Peter Frampton ~merge regularly but according to Jim Speier, concert commissioner, Jften times he doesn't even know months in advance which groups Nill be appearing. 
Holiday politics 
continued from page 1I against such a bill," said the Carter statement. whtch lncludeii a copy of a letter from Treasury Secretary William E. Simon to Sen. Abraham Ribicoff. D-Conn.. a member of the Senate Finance Committee. criticizing such legisla­tion. 
"It is time that Mr. Ford told the American people the truth--that he· has done nothing meaningful to l:>reak the back of the boycott--that 1e has opposed every effort to declare the boycott illegal. .. " Car­ter said. 
Law schools hold Oct. interviews 
Three law schools will be conduc­
ing interviews during the week tmmediately following the October mid-semester break. 
A representative from Suffolk University Law School. Boston, will hold interviews on Monday, Oct. 
25. Representatives from Boston College Law School and Washing­ton and Lee School of Law. Lexing­ton, Va. will conduct interviews on Thursday, Oct. 28. 
Sign-ups are outside Room 101 O'Shaughnessy. Students should sign up before the mid-semester break. 
GOING HOME FOR BREAK? 
Why not surprise the folks (and yourself) with a handsome hairstyling 
from the Windjammer? 
Hair design for the sexes 
Uhe 

-----------------~----
WinJjammer

1637 LWW SO. BEND PH. 232-6622 

·oNCE 
PRESENTS 
HURRICANES 
Oldie's Night 
$1.00 ALL NIGHT 
EVERY TUESDAY 
"I can't give you any hints as to continued. "If a group cancels it's who's coming," Speier said. for a good reason. We'll try to get "Hints are worthless in this busi-them back for the spring and ness. I hear the rumors too, but if I negotiations will be made to pro­don't know then who does?" -vide compensation for the cost 
Speier explained that difficulties advertising." At the present no arise when days set for concerts replacement for Seals and Crofts don't coincide with tour dates or has been announced. 
when .a group ~ust cancel at t.he Procedure for booking a group is last mmut.e. Thts was the case wtth long and complicated. First, the the Amenca and. Seals and Crofts A.C.C. provides the Student Union concerts. .Amenca cancelled be-with first pick for concert dates, cause of tllness and Seals and four in the fall and four in the Crofts .because of a conflict with a . spring. This year, according to recordtng date. Speier, dates were chosen to Speier continued to say that in coincide with football weekends. these cases there is nothing the After reserving the A.C.C., the Student Union can do. Concert Commissioner tries to find 
"Confirmations are tentative un-a group on tour at that time that til contracts are signed,'' Speier will go over well with Notre Dame 
Trigiani-Baldy ticket wins SMC freshmen elections 
by Teresa Casiano Staff Ret.orter 
The final election of the St. Mary's freshman officers was held Mondav. Oct. II. Thewinners were the ticket of: Pia Trigiani-presi­dent, Betsy Baldy-vice president. Cathy Loftus-secretary and Mary Beth Horne-treasurer. 
"The Y.eshmen seemed to be interested and involved in their election," said Carla Iacona, elec­tion commissioner. Seven tickets ran a tight race in the primaries. Out of a class or 600, 329 students voted. The two tickets who received the highest number of votes were then selected for the run-off election. The opposing ticket consisted of Debbie Roberts, Julie Marous, Clare Theisen and Kay Spakowski. The winner was chosen by 287 girls. 
According to lacona, "All of the girls followed-the rules and every­thing went smoothly." lacona, who was the main person in charge of the clection. also had a lot of help from Maria Magnanelli, who will take over her office at the end of the semester. 
Class ring orders this week for SMC 
Joe White, representative of Herff Jones Ring Company, will be in Lemans lobby Oct. 13-14 from 9-4 p.m., to take S.M.C. class ring orders. "This year's class rings are less expensive and are avail­able in a wider variety of styles than last year," said Terry Tuohy, sophomore class President. Order forms are available now in the Lemans lobby where the ·selection of rings is on display. 
For futher information call Terry Tuohy at 4-4387. 

students. appeared. 
Speier said, "Last year we had a Speier considers the past Bruce lot of complaints because we didn't Springsteen concert a success, have enough concerts. But when though only a little over 4,000 groups don't tour, we can't bring tickets were sold. them." "We look at it as a success," 
Besides the big-name groups in commented Speier. "We knew the A.C.C., the Student Union also that it would be good and those sponsors several concerts in Stepan who went agreed that it was. With Center during the spring. These a performer like Springsteen its concerts are not geared toward difficult though because he's only making a profit but toward pure popular in certain areas." enjoyment. The smaller location When asked about a rumor provides an opportunity for first-concerning a possible date by Peter rate but unknown talent to per-Frampton, Speier responded, "I form. In the past such people as have no idea but I'll try my best to Steve Goodman, Billy Joel, Robert get him. I thought we had him but Klein and Seals and Crofts have then he changed his tour." 
....................... • 
: ! 
I : 
I 
Special 10% Discount .• 
• On All Merchandise To Notre Dame • 
e & Saint Mary'~ Students. e
....................... 
Acareer in law­

withoutlaw school. 
What can you do with only a bachelor's degree? 
Now there is a way to bridge the gap between an undergraduate education and a challenging, respon­sible career. The Lawyer's Assistant is able to do work traditionally done by lawyers. 
Three months of intensive training can give you the skills-the courses are taught by lawyers. You choose one of the seven courses offered-choose the city in which you want to work. 
Since 1970, The Institute for Paralegal Training has placed more than 1600 graduates in law firms, banks, and corporations in over 75 cities. 
If you are a senior of high academic standing and are interested in a career as a Lawyer's Assistant. we'd like t.o meet you. 
Contact your placement office for an interview with our representative. 
We will visit your campus on 
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 4 
The Institute for Paralegal Training 
235 South 17th Street, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19103 (215) 732-6600 Operated by Para-Legal, Inc. 
AC-0035 
9 -12 
*.25 DRAFTS 
•.25 MIXED DRINKS 

Live Country-Western entertainment Wednesday night! 
Tuesday, October 12:.!..'_:1..:._9_76______:t__:_h~e=--o=-=b~s::_e::::__:_r__:V:....::e~r 
Farley, Walsh, Lewis post victories 
by Win Palmer Sports writer 

Lewis Hall cruised past Walsh Hall 36-16 Thursday night in a showdown for first place and Lyons Hall bested Badin Hall 28-16. Sunday afternoon Farley Hall top­
ped Breen-Phillips Hall 12-0 Walsh defeated Badin 22-16 double overtime.  an in  
Farley 12 Breen-Phillips 0  

The first half was a defensive struggle. Each team put on several drives but each time turnovers or penalties killed the drive. At the end of the half Breen-Phillips put on their biggest drive. Kate Sarb completed a 31-yard pass to Beth Conlisk and BP moved inside the Farley 20-yard line. But then Nancy Cox recovered a Breen-Phil­lips fumlbe and the half ended with no score. 
Early in second half Chris Datz­man of Farley completed a halfback option pass to Carol Lally. Sharon Gallagher then tossed a 43-yard touchdown pass to Lally and Farley was ahead :>-0 as the extra point was no good. On the ensuing kickoff BP fumbled and Farley fell on the ball. However, Cathy Schneider picked off Datzman' s pass. Neither team was able to move the ball efficiently until late in the half when on a fourth and 22 play from their own 36-yard line Farley elected to go for the first down and they made it as Gallag­her completed a long pass to Lally. The two teams exchanged fumbles and then Gallagher hit Lally at the 7-yard line. With just 32 seconds remaining Datzman ran the ball in for the TD. 
Walsh 22 Badin 16 

Walsh evened their record with Badin this year at 1 and 1 in a double overtime game reminiscent of their triple overtime game earlier this year. Walsh scored quickly in the game as Anne Eisele connected with Jay Decio for a SO-yard TD pass. The extra point attempt was no good. Badin struck back as Julie Walters carried the ball for 36 yards. Diane halliwell ran the all down to the 2-yard line where Walters plunged in for the score. Badin went ahead 8-6 as Walters carried over the two point conversion. Walsh was on the move again as Eisele completed 
Notices 

Typinr~ -35cents a par~e. Call Dan, 272-5549­
Notice: Fat Wally's now deliverinG pizzas and sandwiches, Monday ­Saturday, 8 till midniGht. Minimum order $3.00. Phone 277-0570. 
NO Club sponsors Tour to USC-tND game plus one week in sunny Hawaii. Game ticket included. Depart Nov. 27 and return Dec. 6. $520.00 from Chica(lo. Call 1570 
9 
Call 1579 for detai1S. 
Greyhound Bus to Chicano leaves Circle every Friday at 4:45. Call Tom at 8338 by midniGht Thursday for seat reservations and further info. 
MORRISSEY LOAN FUND-$20 ­$150. 1 day wait. 1 percent interest. Due in 30 days. LaFortune 
basement. M-F, 11:15-12:15. 
Accurate, fast-typin£1. Mrs. Donoho 232-0746. Hours: 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. 
Will teach you flute in your spare time. For info. call Beth, 8112. 
Hotel or motel room needed for parents Oct.-15 and or 16. Please call Anne, 1362. 
Adidas -shoes (57 varieties) shirts, ba£~S, etc. Quick orders. See catalo£~, G5 Farley, Chris or Mary, 3982. 
Free !!!!10 week old kitten (male) Call Terry 3888. 
For Rent 

For rent, furnished six and four bedroom houses, couple of blocks from No.tre Dame also sin(lle rooms. 277-3604 even in(IS. 
Furnished apartment for rent. 2 bedrooms, utilities furnished, pri­vate bath and entrance, No Pets, quiet adults, deposit. Forest Ave. off Porta(le. 291-0556. 
long passes to Decio and Becky Thornton but Chris Burns interc­cepted a pass in the end zone for a touchback. Later in the half Walsh was intercepted on the Badin 2-yard line by Julie Breed. However Walsh caught Julie Wal­ters in the end zone for a safety. After Badin kicked off from thier 20 Eisele moved Walsh into scoring territory once again and this time she threw a 23-yard TD passs to Decio. Eisele ran in the exta point and Walsh led 16-8 at the half. 
Decio was the defensive star for Walsh in the second half as she picked off two passes to thwart Badin drives. But late in the game, after Chris Burns had intercepted a pass and returned it to the 23-yard line, Walters carried the ball to the 7-yard line and then Halliwell scored a touchdown. On the crucial extra point Walters swept around left end to force the game into overtime. 
Neither team scored in the first overtime so they had to play a second overtime. This time Walsh scored as Thornton carried the ball into the end zone. The Walsh defense toughened and Badin was unalbe to get the ball into the end zone from their 10-yard line in their alloted four plays and Walsh had revenge for their earlier defeat. 
Lyons 28 Badin 16 
In an exciting game Thursday 
night at the astroturf field, Lyons Hall topled Badin hall28-16. Lyons started the game off by scoring on their first possession. A 72-yard reverse by Michelle O'Haren. the first of he-r three touchdown Lyons ahead 6-0 as the extra point attempt was no good. O'Haren also set up the second touchdown for Lyons. A 33-yard reverse moved the ball deep into Badin territory. Two plays later Kathy McCann swept in from the six. Again the extra point attempt was no good. 
Badin struck back late in the half. With just 17 seconds to go Judy Temple completed a 15-yard pass to Chris Burns to move the ball to the 15-yard line. Then, as time ran out in the first half, Julie Walters scampered into the end zone. Mary Jo Basera added the extra point and the score was Lyons 12 Badin 8. 
Badin, aided by two holding penalties against Lyons, drove down to teh 23-yard line early in the second half. From there Julie Walters scored her second touch­down of the game. When Diane Halliwell added the extra point Badin was ahead 16-12. They did not score again in the game as Lyons defense held steadfast. 
Michelle O'Haren scored both the touchdowns for Lyons in the half. The first was on the 49-yard 
reverse  and  second  came  on  a  
fourth and  10  play  from  Badin  
12-yard  line.  Each  time  Kathy  

McCann ran in the extra point for lYons. 
1 

lewis 36 Walsh 16 
In the highest scoring game of the year, Lewis gained a two game lead in the standings over second place Walsh. Walsh jumped out ahead early in the game when Anne Eisele passed a pass to Jay Decio that went for 65 yards. Eisele ran in the extra poing. Two plays later Decio intercepted a pass and returned it to the Lewis 15-yard line but the play was called back because of a clipping penalty. Walsh could do nothing with the ball and they were forced to give it up. 
With about 6 minutes to go in the half Lewis turned the game around. A Walsh punt from the 7-yard line actually ended up the line of scrimmage and Pat Meyer ran the ball in for the score. Several plays later Meyer intercepted a pass and returned it to the Walsh 23-yard line. On the next play Erin Burns 
SMC ANNOUNCES 
Copies of '7 6 yearbook and old pictures available 
.--c,~----------(1-.-<f~ 

Also, a perfect time to order
' -<.'~~-'Oq,( <;>,_ ('
~;1f~0Q TO LOOK YOUR .s,-,o_:l!',.. c:; BEST TRY US. 
Mon-Sat 
9-9 

Several easy chairs, bars, trunks,·sofas, chests of drawers and other items remain unclaimed from Student Union Summer Storage. If owners wish to continue owning these items they should pick them up at Stepan Center Wednesday, Oct. 13 or Thurs., Oct. 14 , 
Call Services Commission at 283-6244 

Ride needed-near New Hampshire -Massachusetts -Vermont border Oct. break. Please call Ed. 1160. 
Help! Need ride to Oklahoma City or thereabouts. Promise to provide (lOOd food, jokes, drivinn and$. Call Gre(l 8856. -
Millionare Irish Fan from Minnesota must have 4 ga bama tix. Unlimited funds!!!Call Dan 1420. 
Desperately need up to 5 GA tickets for Miami Game for Mom and Dad and the Kids. Call Pe'l or Rose at 
4682.  - 
Need one Alabama Robbie 8706.  ticket.  Call  
Need four Ore<1on Debbie 4728. ·  tickets.  Call  

Wanted; Two GA Alabama tickets. 
Call Ron 1203. 
Need ride to Central New York near BinC~hamton or syracu~e preferable. Can leave Saturday p.m. Call Mary Kay. 687 4. 
Need 7 G.A. Orenon tickets. 
259-0631 after 5p.m.­
Experienced (luitarist seekinG to form Rock and Roll Band with other students.' Must be experienced also, and have own equipment. Call Bob at 1487 _ 
Ur(lently need a Bama ticket for a returnin(l Domer!! Call Maureen at 4829. 
Wanted: Help wanted, waitresses, full, part-time, must be 21. Apply Fat Wally's, 2046 South Bend Ave. 4-7 p.m. 
sexist needs 5 ga Oregon tix. Call 7471 now!!! 
Need ride from Kansas City return­in(! -from Oct. break. Call Jane, 4427. 
Need two tickets for Elvis concert_ Call 232-2429. 
Wanted: 2 G.A. tickets for DUCKS $$$. Call Dennis 8164. 
Will do typing, themes, manuscripts Call 287-5162. 
Wanted: Ride to NYC-Westchester Please call Katie 4-4214. 
Need ride to Kansas City, K S or Glenvnle, w. va. for Oct. break. Please call Matt at 3386. 
For Sale 
For Sale: 1972 BMW 2002 siiver, sun roof, 4 spd., rebuilt trans. head. No rust!!(Sou. car) Ansa exhaust. $32501afr. Call collect, (616) 471 6765. 
4 GA Oregon tix for sale at cost. 
Joan 1334. Personals 
Delchinski . I want some cookies or no ride. Pup. 
Bri(lid -you shamed me into puttin£1 this in but Happy Birthday anyway. 
Jay, Happy Birthday. I hope now you will try to (lei into the bars with your own id's. 
Greenie Stick'em Caps. Wherever you are, have a Happy Birthday. Zipper. 
Happy Birthday to the Greatest Mother in the World. Bear. 
Chris: Happy Birthday.... If the bar were open, I'd buy you a drink. Hope you have a (lood day. 
Happy B-day to Crissnider 
Eat Dead Burnt Bodies! Re(lards from Buzoo, Nork, Murpy, Gump, Salomi, Bert, Willie, Speed, Carl, Mr. Muller, Roxanne, O'Whora, and Ted the Head. 
Dearest Honey, Remember the Royal Inn and then John Sebastien (and the test I flunked the next day!! l 2 years today and I still love you! Happy Anniver­sary. All my love 
"Poo_psie" Lost: Blue jean jacket with fur lininr~. Call Pitz at 6970. 
Lost: Glod St. Mary's class rinr~. EnC~raved with Mary Estes Hall, BS, 
78. Reward. Call 4524. 
Lost: Gold initial rin'l. "GVO" in Oh'sha<:J. last year. -Call Gre(lory 8856. 
Lost: 2 rinC~S in vicinity of ROTC buildin£~S. H iC~h school (lreen stone, and turquoise with mother pearl. Reward offered. Please call Kevin 233-4222. 
'Let a smile be your umbrella on a rainy day, but I need my liC~hl brown wrap-tie raincoat. Reward. Call Karen -6994. 
Lost: Texas insturments SR-11 in or(lan ic lecture 'bout 2 weeks a(lo. Please help me keep my head above the risinG physics -infested waters. Call 291-8329 after 5:00p.m., Mark. 
Can identify it. 
Lost a Blue jean jacket at the Library Bar on Sat. Jim Stronn 31077. If found please call 233-2608. It's the warmest thing I have. 
Lost:  Black  lab  puppy  - call  Bill  
3137.  
Wanted  
Desparately_  need  2  GA  tlx  for  

Ore(lon. Call Mary Pat or nan 6789. 
2 (1 iris desperately need ride to Washington D. C area (one way) for Oct. break. Willing to leave any time And will share drivinG and expenses. Call 6561 or 7995. 
Help, ride to Pittsburgh needed. Call Nick after 11 p.m. 8382. 
Millionaire Minnesota NO Fan's billionaire uncle demands 2 Alabama GA's. Unlimited -er funds!!Call Uncle-Dave 8528. 
Two need ride to Baton Rouge. Call Terese 7879 or Anne 7848. 
Classified Ads 
Need ride to Ft. Lauderdale 
W. P. B.  area  October  break.  Tim  
1868.  
Need riders to Quad-City area.  Oct.  

16. Call 272-2401. 
Need ride to WashinGton, D.C. or vicinity over break. Share expenses, Call Stacey 4412. 
Field Interviewers Male or Female. Must have car and be willin'l to work eveninC~s and Saturdays. no sell inn­draw available if you are r~ood. Call Mr.slade at 277-3191 for appoint­ment. 
Ride needed to Wash. D. C area for Oct. break. Call Donna, 8112. 
Help. Need 2 GA Oregon tickets. 
Call Greg(! at 1650. 
Need 2 GA Bama tixs. Desperately. 
Call 1785. 
Addressers wanted immediately!! Work at home --no experience necessary --excellent pay. Write American Service, Suite 132, Minn­eapolis, MN. 55426. 
Need 2 Bama tix for parents who have never been to an NO game. Mary 8125. 
Ride to Toledo this Friday. Call Pe(l(IY 8125. 
Need 2 GA Orer~on tix. Call Dick 1204. 
I need a ride to Minnesota tor Oct. break. Call Steve 1478. 
----,---------­
Need ride to Binghamton or Ithaca NY for Oct. break. Will share drivinG and !!. Please call Jill 1333. 
HELP!! Need ride to Danbury, Conn. for break. Will share. Mark 3481. 

your '77 Yearbook. From 1 0-5 In LeMans 
Summer Programs 
~ 

LONDON ( May 24-June 24) 
Travel: Ireland, Sootland, England and France. Or 
ROME ( June 23 · July24) 

France, Germany, Switzerland and Italy. Sponsored by S.M.C. Courses Available in Art, Archeology, History and Theater. 
the observer Tuesday, October 12, 1976 
Irish nine win two, lose two 
by Tim Bomret minute contest. show up in the boxscore," said Sports Writer Jim Abbatiello, tim Pollock and Kelly. "Mental errors hurt us Bob Bader supplied the offensive badly against Indiana State, but 

The Notre Dame baseball squad punch for the Irish in Saturday's overall we learned a lot over the looked like two different ball clubs second game. Abbatiello had two weekend. We played as well as we last weekend as they split four hits and scored two runs. Pollock did all last season on Saturday." games. The Irish played a flawless connected for a pair of hits and In Sunday's first game with the doublehader against Cincinnati Sa­RBI's, and Bader cracked Notre Sycamores three Indiana State turday as they swept the Bearcats Dame's first homer of the spring; a Hurlers held the Irish to three hits 3-2 and 4-0. On Sunday they were towering blast over the left-center and a seventh inning run. Jay far from impressive as they dropp­field fence. James supplied the power for State ed a twinbill at Indiana State 6-1 In Saturdy's opener the Irish with a homer and a single. and 9-8. scored two runs in the bottom of In the nightcap Notre Dame 
the seventh to give Mike Bobinski vaulted to 6-0 lead in the firstSenior righthander Jim Sholl was his first win of the fall. Coach Tim inning behind six walks and athe outstanding performer for Not­Kelly made many key moves in the single. Indiana State countered re Dame over the weekend as he decisive inning, as two pinch-hitte-with three in the bottom ofthe first

stifled the Bearcats in the second rs lashed extra base hits and a pair but freshman Dan Voellinger gavegame of Saturday'_s twinbill. Sholl, of pinch runners scored the tying Notre Dame a commanding 8-3who struckout eight and limited and winning runs. Tim Pollock lead with a long home run in theCincinnati to but four hits, pitched began the uprising with a double to top of the second. But, the younghis second consecutive shutout of left. One out later Tom Szwak, an Irish pitchers could not hold theirthe spring. The secret to the unknown sophomore from Levitto-lead as Indiana State scored whatOakwood, Ohio native's success wn, Pa., knocked in the tying run proved to be the winning runs withhas been his outstanding control, with a triple off the top of the left a two run sixth. Ricky Pullano, who as he has walked only four oppon­field fence scoring pinch-runner has been the most consistent hitter ettls in fourteen innings. He John Stephens. With one out and in the Notre Dame lineup increased needed only 81 pitches to quiet the the winning run ninety feet away, his torrid on base percentage with 
a hour

Cats in one thirty-five Cincinnati intentionally walked Rick -ahit, a walk and a hit batsman. He Pullano and StanBobowski. Dave has connected for at least one hit in B-ball tryouts DeFacci then knocked in the decid-every game this fall. ing run with an infield sin~le. Notre Dame concludes the fall to be held Kelly's club did not commit a portion of their sched~le this 
single error in the double defeat of weekend with two games with Basketball try outs for all students the Bearcats, but Sunday's contes-Xavier Ohio. The two teams will will be held at 4 p.m. on October 15 ts with Indiana State were not as meet Friday afternoon at 3:00 p.m. in the auxiliary gym of the ACC. neatly played. "We made a lot of and Saturday morning at 10:15 
mistakes on Sunday that don't a.m.

Ted Robinson t:=======::::::::====:=======================================:=======:=:===========================::::::========:=================================:=:=====:=============================:===::::::: 
Contenders for the Cup 

::=============================:=====:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:===========================:=:=:=:=:=:===:=:=:=====::::::====::::::======================================::===:::::=====:::::: NH L Preview 
The National Hockey League lack of aSOgoal scorer. It's hard to lenge. sneaked up on everyone and start­win the Cup without the big gun to ed its 60th season last week. rely on in the clutch. If anyone has DARK HORSE® Professional sports' most lovable the potential to do it, it's Clark ST. LOUIS: Made crucial mistake buffoon, Clarence Campbell, is still Gillies. Anyway, the Flyers better in hiring Emile Francis to run the the league's commissioner, despite watch it. show. Nonetheless, they are rated repeated attempts to find his BOSTON: Can win it all if Gerry in this category because of some of successor: Franchise changes have Cheevers comes back to his old their young players; Chuck Letley, put new teams in Cleveland and form. They strenghtened their Bob MacMillan, and goalie Ed Denver. Fragile-kneed Bobby Orr offense with the acquisition of Rich Staniowski. If Emile doesn't mess is now trying to lead the Chicago Middleton, a potentia! SO-goal sco­up too much, they could have a Black Hawks out of the doldrums, rer. Even without Bobby Orr, their chance. althoughhis former employers are defense remains solid. Dallas MINNESOTA: Ted Harris did an not happy about it. Smith has proved himself to be one admirable job considering his hor­
The absurd playoff structure of the steadiest defensive players rendous talent. Again, a few young adopted by the league reduces the in the game. And, you can still players make this team on to be regular season to a meaningless look to the left of the net on the watched. Bill Hogaboam, acquired exercise. Therefore, one should Bruin power play, and see 41 from Detroit, rapidly developed not follow the divisional races with year-old John Bucyk back for one into the team's best offensive much interest, as most of the teams more !urn. player. This year, Olympian Steve make the playoffs anyway. Jensen, Tom Younghans (U. of 
Here's a breakdown of the CONTENDERS: Minnesota) and Alex Pirus (ND) teams as they should contend for CHICAGO: Any team with Bobby look to bolster the offensive output. the Stanley Cup: Orr has to be considered a conten­Pete LoPresti is a rising young EUTE: der. They are still the dullest team goaltender. A real darkhorse and a MONTREAL: Once they get a hold in hockey, not even Orr can change team for the future. of the Cup, their grip on it tightens. that. Their lulling style of play ATLANTA: Any team with a goalie The "Cincinnatti Reds" of the caused them to lose their TV duo of Phil Myre and Dan Bouch­NHL, they are the closest thing to a contract this year. They don't have ard has to be given consideration. perfect hockey team seen in recent enough forward depth to make a Steady defensively, but Tom Lysiak years. A fundamentally sound run at the Cup. and Curt Bennett represent their team, they skate and execute as if PITTSBURGH: They'll continue to offense. They need more output the_y've played together for years. play their 10-8 games. Syl Apps, from Eric Vail. They are three deep at every Jean Pronovost and Lowell Mac­INEPT iTEAMS TO NOT MAKE position except goal. And withKen Donald will all score close to SO PLAYOFFS]: Dryden there, they have no need goals, but Denis Herron will see N.Y. RANGERS: John Ferguson's for an accomplished backup. dreams of Kansas City floating first full season, and the Rangers Without going into detail, it suffic­through his head. won't be walked over. They es to say that, barring serious LOS ANGELES: If anyone from sacrificed Rich Middleton to get injury, they should easily defend this group can make a serious run Ken Hodge, who is supposed to their crown. for the title, the Kings will be the bring Phil Esposito back to life PlllLADELPHIA: The two-time team. They have to keep Schultz but, they are defensively lacking. Stanley Cup champions were emb­tied in the locker room, however. VANCOUVER: A franchise . in arassed by Monreal in the finals Goalie Rogatien Vachon proved his deterioration. Bright young goalies last year. They were shown that worth in the Canada Cup tourna­in urt Ridley and Ken Lockett, but sound skating hockey wins, rather ment this fall. If Whitey Widing need offensive punch desperately. than the cheap shots they have can make a comeback on offense, Maybe Mike "Shaky" Walton will practiced for years. It seems as if the Kings can make it interesting. help. the Flyers were convinced. Dave BUFFALO: Any team that can WASHINGTON: Their ace goalie Schultz now wears a crown on the start Gerry Desjardins in goal is off Bernie Wolfe had a 4.15 goals-aga­front of his jersey, while Bob Kelly to a bad start. Their defense is inst average which is like winning is gaining splinters. Their real poor, but could be saved by Jim 20 games for the California Angels. problem is in goal where Bernie Schoenfeld. They can score with They should play in the WCHA. Parent is out until Thanksgiving, the best of them, but without DETROIT: It's a shame that a class and Wayne Stephenson is under defensive help, they are destined to guy like Ed Giacomin has to close suspension. It's doubtful they can be playoff also-rans. out his career in a problem area like last long with Jerome Mrazek in TORONTO: One of the fine young Devecchio has created in Detroit. goal. teams in the league. They had one CLEVELAND BARONS: Formerly 
N.Y. ISLANDERS: In just four of the league's most productive California Golden Seals, they are years, they have gone from the lines in Darryl Sittler, the NHL's the best of these 6 teams. If they worst team in NHL history to most underrated player, Errol Tho­could find some scoring punch, legitimte Stanley Cup contenders. mpson, and Lanny McDonald. they might contend. Gilles Meloc­A strong defensive team, they Defense is improving with Swedish he is a top-rate goalie and Dennis finished a close second to Montreal import Borje Salming maturing. Maruk was the second-best rookie in the Vezina Trophy competition. Wayne Thomas, rescued from the in the NHL last year. Chico Resch and Billy Smith form Montreal exile, turned in an excell­COLORADO ROCKIES: Best na­the best goaltending duo in the ent year in the nets. A vastly me in the NHL. Worst team in the league. Their lone weakness is the improving team that could chal-NHL. 

by Monte Towle Indiana during morning action. 
Sports Reporter Meanwhile, Purdue was surpirsed by an Indiana State team, the loss eliminating them from title conten­tion. 

The Notre Dame tennis team Notre Dame clinched its unde­successfully defended its 1975 title feated record by turning back the of its own fall invitational tennis Boilermakers by 6-3 margin in tournament by defeating all five afternoon action on Saturday by opposing teams at the Courtney virtue of winning all three of its Tennis Center over the weekend. doubles matches. At the same The tourney, which began Friday time, Indiana wrapped up second morning and ended Saturday after-place with a S-4 win over Illinois noon, included a field of midwest-State while Indiana State gained ern schools competing on a round third with an identical S-4 win robin basis. against Northwestern. 
Although tied with Purdue after The Hoosiers were actually tied Friday's action, the host Irish with Indiana State in the final squad maintained its superior play won-loss standings but was award­despite a chilly Saturday inwinning ed the runnerup slot because of matches against Northwestern and Indiana's victory over State in their 
encounter. The same ruling gaveND WOmen netfefS Purdue possession of fourth place over Northwestern. COme UP WinleSS. Coach Tom Fallon was obviously 
elated with the play of all of his by B.J. Lavlns netters. Senior captain-Randy Sports Writer Stehlik rebounded from an early loss to capture the remainder of his The women's varsity tennis team singles matches. In addition, 
dropped its second match of the Stehlik teamed with freshman season last Saturday afternoon Chris Fallon to outclass all of their to Eastern Michigan by the score of opponents in doubles competition, 
5 to 4. On Sunday the team including a dramatic come from travelled to Ft. Wayne, Indiana, behind victory in their final match with the hope of defeating Indiana against Purdue. and Purdue Universities at Ft. Brian Hainline and Tony Bruno Wayne in vengence for Saturday's played exceptionally well as the loss. They didn't succeed, though, second and fifth singles players, as the match ended in a 4-4 tie after Hainline winning four of his match­being called on account of dark-es while Bruno took three. Other ness. Irish netters contributing numer­
The entire match against East­ous wins to the cause were Chris ern Michigan was closely contested Fallon, Mark Trueblood, Carlton and as Coach Cathy Cordes said, Harris and Bob Koval. 
"It was on of those type of Besides the duo of Stehlik and situations where it could have gone Fallon, other Irish doubles teams to either team." Indeed, the match were composed of Hainline-Harris was decided in the final match of and Bruno-Koval. Both of these 
doubles competition when the duo pairs posted four victories to the from Eastern Michigan defeated championship effort. Sue Flanigan and Mary Joe Cushi­
ng 6·2, 6-2. 
Team captain Jane Lammers AP top Twenty was cited by Cordes as being particularly outstanding in the loss The top Twenty teams in The as she accounted for one half of the Associated Press college football team's total points. In singles poll, with first-place votes in paren­comptition she edged out the theses, season records and total opposition 7-5 in the first set and points. Points based on 20-18-16­then had to use the tie breaker in 14-12-10-9-8-7-6-5-4-3-2-1: her 7-6 victory in the second set. During the doubles competition 1. Mich 57 5-0-0 1,194 Lammers joined forces with Mary 2. Pitts 3 5-0-0 1,056 Shukis. They lost their first set 4-6 3. Neb. 4-0-1 848 but then came back to win the next 4. UCLA 4-0-1 834 two sets by the close scores of 6-4 5. Maryld 5-0-0 660 and 7-5. 6. Okla. 4-0-1 611 
The match against Indiana and 7. M'souri 4-1-0 485 Purdue Universities at Wayne, 8.. S. Calif 4-1-0 418 which ended in a tie, might have 9. Ohio St. 3-1-1 406 proven victorious for the Irish had 10. Tex Tech 3-0-0 309 darkness not settled in. They were 11. Georgia 4-0-1 302 leading 4 to 2 at the end of singles 12. Florida 3-1-0 203 competition and only dropped the 13. Texas 2-1-1 174 two matches in the doubles compe­14. Notre Dame 3-1-0 158 tition after it was dark and the 15. Kansas 
4-0-1 130 teams were rushing to finish. 16. LSU 3-1-1 42 The team will be in action again tie Miss. 4-2-0 42 this afternoon when they host 18. Ark 3-1-0 37 Valparaiso and on Thursday when 19. Houstn 3-1-0 28 they take on St. Mary's College. 20. 18
Ala. 3-2-0 








