

Yesterday's Dillon Run resulted in extensive damage to halls across campus. According to ND Dean of Students james Roemer Dillon residents will have to pay for repairs. (Photo by jim Hofman.) 
MaoTse~ungdies~~~~~~~~~~ 
TOKYO. (AP)-Chairman ~ao 
Tse-tung dted Thursday, plungmg 

~~~~~~~~ole~~i:gn~e;~~gp~~;~c~~
the le!!dership of the world's most populous natwn. As if anticipating a power strug­

• ~~~:i~:::t~a~~~~~~i~e;:;:~
tssued an appeal for umty. 
In a statement, the committee pledged to "carry on the cause left behind by Chairman Mao," found­er of the People's Republic of 
China in 1949 and its leader since. 
The No. 2 man in the party has been Hua Kuo-feng, 57, regarded as a compromise candidate be­tween the quarreling radicals led by Mao's widow, Chiang Ching, and the moderates led by followers of the late premier Chou En-lai and his protege, ousted vice premier Teng Hsiao-ping. 
But the succession to the chair­manship was uncertain and severe jockeying for power had already been going on for some time. The official Peking People's Daily recently hinted of "armed strug­gle" between the two factions, although no reports of bloodshed have surfaced. 
The 82-year-old Mao died at 
12:10 a.m. (12:10 p.m. EST Wed­nesday), the Hsinhua news agency said: He had been ill for some time and had acted more as a mediator in China's affairs than a day-by-day boss of the country. 
Hsinhua said no foreign govern­ments or groups would be invited to send representatives to a mass memorial for Sept. 18. 
The news agency did not give the cause of death or say where Mao died. American and other recent visitors to China reported he was frail and had trouble speaking. Medicai experts who studied films of his recent appearances said he showed symptoms of Parkinson's disease. 
President Ford, who conferred with Mao for almost two hours last December, said in Washington that his death was "tragic," and called him "a remarkable and very great man." The Soviet Union sent brief condolences, but had no praise for the man who regarded the Kremlin as his chief ideological enemy. 
America's China watchers made their initial assessments of the effect on the world of Chairman Mao Tse-tung's death and one 
~fO:'-'":t"""""~-,.
_./ \~, 


H-,.
~~;t ..,...,__,. f'W"'"""' "• ~ -~· -~ 

-> . · · , 
{t'·. ..... ;\ ~p 
---·~"''y l }-"'~ ·~ / ', ......_~, 
_./#A-IZ\, .,, -~~~" u """ ,__ 
''·-~~' J 
'--~w~\~ ~ 
r,B, ~~ '1-"' 
,_ 

MAO TSE-TUNG 
pattern emerged: nobody really 
knows what that effect will be. 
Would China, for eJCample, now 
move to mend its rift with the 

Soviet Union? 
Yes, said Dr. Thomas W. Robin­

son of the University of Washing­
ton, a former Chinese foreign 
policy analyst for the Rand Corp. 
No, said Prof. Lucien Pye, of the 
Massachusetts Institute of Tech­

nology. 
"The death of Mao is not good 

news for the United States," said ·Robinson. "It was Mao's idea to improve relations with the United States and Chin's opposition to the Soviet Union was his. It's likely to cause some movement back toward the Soviets and some movement 
against us." 
But Pye said: "Anybody who 

talks about reducing tensions with 
the Soviets runs the risk of being 
accused of going against Mao's 
thoughts.'' 
Griff plans mass after Pitt game 
at the Grotto 
Father Robert Griffin will be celebrating a Mass at the Grotto after tomorrow's Pitt game at 6:15 
p.m. Griffin stated that the Mass was for "the convenience of the people who want to go to Mass before they hit the road." 
This mass is in addition to the Mass that he usually celebrates in Sacred Heart at 5:15. There will be a grouQ for the glee club singing at the Grotto Mass. 

To Wednesday's panty raid
Rl·ce & Roemer· ml·xed reactl•ons• 
by Sue Ballman 
andTomEder 
Staff Reporters 

A panty raid staged by about 1500 chanting students Wednesday night has drawn official ractions ranging from relief to irritation c_oncerning the conduct of the annual episode. 
"I couldn't believe that Christian men and women could behave that way," declared Kathleen M. Rice, dean· of Student Affairs at St. Mary's. 
"I wish the students could find more creative and meaningful ways to talk to each other," commented Rice. "I thought panty raids went out in the Middle Ages," she added. 
James Roemer, dean of students at Notre Dame, was pleased with the behavior of the students partic­ipating in the raid. "I am very happy about the way the Notre Dame students were disciplined and stayed off the buildings at St. Mary's," Roemer stated. "There were only two students who tres­passed on St. Mary's buildings and they will be disciplined according­ly," the dean continued. He also added that he received no reports of injuries or damage to property at St. Mary's. 
Prior to the panty raid, Rice had the hall directors request that the RA's police the exists and try to prevent the women from encourag­ing the men. "The RA's did an excellent job of keeping the situa­tion under control. The men didn't get in or run around breaking things, so relatively speaking, it 
was  a  controlled  panty  raid,"  
observed Rice.  
Although  two  people  were  

caught for trespassing and later released, Anthony Kovatch, direc­tor of security at St. Mary's was relieved. "There were no arrests and the crowd was pretty orderly and didn't break anything." 
He also noted that no one was hurt. "The safety ofthe students of both St. Mary's and Notre Dame is our greatest concern," stated Kovatch. He also stressed that people climbing up on buildings concerned him because .there is always a chance that someone can fall. 
Kovatch also noted that there is no real way to stop a panty raid. Security can only control it. I 
"They're going to come over no matter what we do. If they don't want to be stopped then they can't ' be stopped." 
Leslie Wilson, assistant Hall Director in Regina also felt that . everything was relatively calm. I "There was no damage, no rough­housing. and nothing really excit-i ing happened," she stated. 
Candidate Mondale arrives, tours South Bend factory 
SOUTH BEND, Ind. (AP) -Sen. Walter Mondale pumped hands and greeted workers at the Bendix Corp. plant here as the Democratic vice-presidential nominee made his first campaign trip to Indiana. 
Secretary of State Larry A. Conrad, the partys nominee for governor, greeted workers in steady drizzle for over an hour as he waited for Mondale to arrive. 
Mondale, 48, was accompanied by his 18-year-old son Theodore. 
Theodore Mondale was asked if he gets kidded about his employ­ment at Vail, the Colorado resort community whe:re Republican Pres­ident Ford and his family often vacation. 
"No. They are only there part of the time. I live in Vail all of the time," he grinned. 
Mondale, a supporter of organ­ized labor, was warmly greeted by the workers, most of whom are members of the United Auto Wor­kers union. 
He is the second member of Democratic presidential nominee Jimmy Carter's campagin team to hit Indiana this week. On Tuesday and Wednesday, Rosalynn Carter stumped in Fort Wayne, Lafayette, Indianapolis and Evansville. 
While Mondale campaigned in South Bend, GOP State Chairman homas Milligan told an Indiana­polis press conference that Ford would not visit Indiana during the campaign. He said vice presiden­tial nominee Robert Dole would visit the Hoosier State, as would Ronald Reagan, who whipped Ford in the State's May primary. 
Milligan said that the GOP figured Ford would win in Indiana, although he probably would trail Gov. Otis R. Bowen. 
Mondale spent the night in South Bend after having dinner with the Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, pres­ident of the University of Notre Dame. 




---News Briefs--­
t==================lnternational 
British Pound Drops 
LONDON--British seamen refused pleas Thursday that they call off a threatened weekend strike that sent the British pound down sharply. The Bank of England stopped supporting the battered 
currency. 

·==========:::::==============National 
Russian Pilot Arrives in U.S. 
NEW YORK--Former astronaut Frank Borman vowed Wednesday to remain as head of a special panel probing West Point's cheating scandal despite allegations that his son had been bribed to fix a case on the cadet honor committee in 1973, 

Astronaut's Son Accused of Bribery 
LOS ANGELES--The Russian pilot who flew his supersecret jet fighter to Japan seeking asylum in the United States arrived here Thursday night aboard a commercial airliner from Tokyo. He was immediately whisked away by officials. 
Defense Department and State Department officials refused to talk to reporters about travel plans of the Soviet air force flyer. 

1 Pollution Deadlines Delayed 
~ 
PIPESTEM* W. Va--The Ohio River Valley Water Sanitation Commission has called on Congress to delay the water pollution deadlines for cities and industry along the Ohio River. 
The commission passed a resolution sayi~g it was impossible for all cities and industrial plants to be in compliance with federal guidelines by July 1, 1977. 
..,____On Campus Toda!J'___. 
friday ­
9 a.m. ­
10 a.m. • 
12 noon­
.3:30p.m. 
4:30p.m.­
7 and 10 p.m.· 8 p.m. 7 p.m.­
8:30p.m.­
9 p.m. to 1 a.m.­saturday­11 a.m.­
3:20p.m.­
6 p.m.­
6:15p.m.­
7:30p.m.• 
sunday ­
10:45 a.m.­
2 p.m.· 
12:30 p.1;11. ­
7, 10 p.m.­
7:30p.m.­
8 p..m.­8 p.m.­
meeting, college of science advisory council, room 150, cce. 
campaign appearance, senator walter mondale democratic party vice-presidential nominee, stepa~ center. 
meeting, national alumnae board, board room, le mans hall. 
lecture, "aquinas on friendship" by prof eugene fairweather, keble professor of divinity, toronto trinity college, room 715, memorial library. spon­sored by the medieval institute and theology dept. 
student-faculty welcome, "carney '76" picnic and carnival, south quad. sponsored by student governmer.t. 
film, my fair Lady, in the engin~ering auditorium, $1. bible study in the grace penthouse. 
pitt rally in stepan center. 
fireworks behind stepan center. 
student union dance in stepan center. 
film, "notre dame in review" in washington hall. sponsored by the alumni association. 
football, pittsburgh at notre dame. 
alumnae cocktail party, regina north lounge, st. mary's. 
mass fr. griffin, at the grotto. 
meeting, society for creative anachronism, Iafortune ballroom, you don't get rid of us that easy! 
opening mass, official opening of the 1976 school year. rev. theodore hesburgh, c.s.c., principal cel~brant. re~,_james t. burtchaell, c.s.c., homilist. sacred heart church. 
reception, president's reception for new faculty and spouses, cce. 
knights of columbus first degree initiation. 
film, "my fair lady," eng. aud., $1. ' senior career orientation i~ stapleton lounge at St. 
Mary's. karen o'neill, director ·of development center, will speak.  the  career  
st. mary's club.  
meeting, to clubhouse.  discuss  parietals  at  st.  mary's·  




Prior·ities set for financial aid 
by Mary EDen Keenan Staff Reporter 

Lack of communication with the 
numerous independent campus or­
ganizations has been cited as the 
major criticism of the new Financial 
Aid Office policy to give em­
ployment priority to its students. 
According to policy set last May, 
only those students who have been 
cleared through the Financial Aid 
Office receive top priority for 
campus employment. The policy 
applies to new student employees, 
with exceptions granted to fulfill 
specific job qualifications. 
Mrs. June McCauslin, Director 
of Financial Aid, stated "necessity 
dictates" that funds which the 
University apropriates for student 
employment be given to those who 
show financial need. In the past at 
Notre Dame, her department could 
only recommend students for the 
available jobs. While the "great 
majority" with need were placed in 
campus jobs over the past years, 
McCauslin noted, there has never 
been enough financial aid to help 
those students who depend on it to 
stay in school. . 
The controversy over this policy 
stems not from the theoretical basis 
for the decision; rather, it is found 
in its application. 
Shelia O'Brien, one of the coor­
dinators of the South Dining Hall, 
believes that too centralized a 
system was instituted. 
O'Brien claims that it was a 
mistake for the Financial Aid Office 
to promise students the opportunity 
to make a specified amount of 
dollars per semester in all campus 
jobs. The promised pay~ent 
schedule, the coordnator stated, 
will not work on a long-range basis 
in the dining halls because of their 
established seniority system in 
scheduling employees. 
According to the seniority sys­1 tern, students with the longest 
!Service record get the mosthours. 
Thus, the 12 required hours per 
week needed to receive the full 
$798.00 annual allotment has not 
*The Observer 
Night Editor -Chris Smith Ass't Night Editor -Katie Kt·rwin & Frank Kebe Layout -Steve Odland, Mary Ann Pelczar & Barry Tillis Copy Reader -Barb Breiten­stein, Tom Byrne Editorials -Pat Hanifin Features -Tim O'Reiley Sports -Fred Herbst & Paul Stevenson Typists-Nancy Cero_ni, Marie McCarthy, Mary McCormick, Morey Blinder Night Controller-Terri Harlan Photographer -Jim Hofman 
The Obser\ler is pvbl ished Monday through Friday and ~kly during the sumner session, except during the exams and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students Of the Univ. Of Notre Dame and St. !IAary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for ($10 per semester) fro"ll The Obser\ler, Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second Class postage paid, Notre Dame, IN 46556. 
been available to the new workers cleared by Financial Aid. 
O'Brien noted that due to their necessity to earn the full work­study all~?tment, there is an insuf­ficient number willing to accept fewer hours at the dining halls. This will create a shortage of workers during some peak meal periods because there will not be a full supply of substitutes. Student Coordinators are worried that the large number of seniors currently working in the South Dining Hall might skip some of their shifts during football season. 
O'Brien emphasized that the dining hall coordinators, as well as representatives of other campus organizations, should have been contacted by the Financial Aid Office last May to discuss their particular employment needs. 
In the past, students worked at the dining halls because they were not eligible for financial aid as­sistance."To deny anyone who has the willingness to work," O'Brien noted, "is a dangerous poltcy ... 
Gary Marmontello, Coordinator of Hourly Personnel, has found students "understanding" about the Financial Aid decision. He emphasized that the policy isn't a "lock-in" arrangement; the de­cision is a priority statement, not an exclusive arrangement. Even­tually, after all with financial need are placed, the other students will 
Plane hijacked to Pakistan 
INDIA (AP) -An India Airlines 

Boeing 737 en route from New 
Delhi to Bombay was hijacked 
Friday morning to Lahore, Pakis­
tan, Indian authorities said. 
The plane, with 77 passengers 

and six crew members aboard, 
later landed safely at Lahore air­
port after a lone hijacker ordered 
the pilot to divert the plane, 
authorities said. 
be considered. The ability to work when needed is a prime consid­eration when students are placed in campus jobs. If students on financial aid can't arrange suitable schedules, then others will be hired, according to Marmontello. 
There has been an increase in the number of financial aid appli­cations this semester. McCauslin cited three factors which have contributed to this increase: students now having to prove need before obtaining campus employ­ment, the general economic sit­uation, and the $300.00 increase in tuition, room and board. 
Hookers and politics 

Q. What could be worse than a film about the sordid life of Xavier Hollander? Q. A second film about her on the same bill. 
The Western Drive-In has both of them this weekend in another hard-R program. Along with "My Pleasure Is My Business" and "The Happy Hooker,'' we have "linda lovelace for Presi­dent.'' (You wee expecting maybe Jimmy Carter?) Fail­ing to get Marilyn Chambers for the lead, qirector Claudio Guzman reluctantly had 
Miss lovelace portray her­self in what surely is her most demanding role to date. The only redeeming social value in all of this is I.Qnri Redgrave as the H.H. The Western is located on St. Rd. 2, six miles west of Main Street. The driver will be admitted free with this ad. Passengers pay $2 each. 
rld 


GOOD LUCK FOR THE COMING YEAR! 
10% Discount on all purchases with 
~aint Mary's  or  Notre Dame 1.0.  
BEDSPREADS,  NORTH VILLAGE  
COMFORTERS  MALL  
IN STOCK ALL SIZES.  us 31 DARDEN RD. 277-3330  






'Dillon Run' results in destruction, violence 
byTomByme 
and Neal Mongold 
Staff Reporters 
Approximately 150 Dillon hall residents staged last night what Dean of Students James Roemer has since assured was the last Dillon Run. The incident resulted in an undetermined amount of damage to several of the residence halls, and in minor injuries to some of the participants. 

Roemer, who had previously granted a cautious permission to the Dillonites, declared last night that he was "extremely upset." 
"This was the kind of thing we were trying to prevent," he remarked. "I'm disappointed that kind of effort would result in this type of destruction of property." 
He also indicated that he was "encouraged by the kind of conver­
******************** 
CAMPAIGN 
P.B. 

******************** 

Time & place set ftJr debate by candidates 
by Gregg B. Bangs Executive Editor 
The League of Women Voters announced Wednesday that the first campaign debate between Jimmy Carter and President Gerald Ford will be held the night of Sept. 23 in a 167-year-old theatre in Philadelphia. 
According to a story by Warren Weaver Jr., that appeared in the Sept. 9 New York Times, the League, which is sponsoring the debates, also released more details on the format of the debates. 
Just over 1,000 people have been invited to the Walnut Street The­atre to observe the 9:30 p.m. start of the first of three presidential debates. There will also be a fourth debate at the vice-presidential level between Democrat Walter F. Moo­dale and Republican Robert J. Dole. 
However, at practically the same time, the candidates of one of the minority political parties that have not been invited to participate in the debates filed suit in Federal District Court to stop them. The American Party, who filed the suit, said that limitmg participation to the ''two major parties violated the communications and election laws." According to the article, more suits are expected shortly from other Presidential candidates -Eugene J. McCarthy, an inde­pendent; Lester G. Maddox, of the American Independent Party, and Peter Camejo of the Socialist Workers Party which is a Trotskyite group. 
Under the approved format, neither of the two candidates will be allowed to make opening oom­ments. but each will be allowed a closing statement of up to three minutes. Neither Carter nor Ford will be allowed to bring prepared notes into the debate, but each is allowed to take notes during the debate to refer back to. 
Three journalists will ask ques­tions of the two candidates. These panelists will be selected by six officials of the league. The article said that, "Under the format approv,ed for the first session but not necessarily for subsequent ones, the reporters . will have an opportunity for a follow-up ques­tion with a two-minute answer and the opposing candidate will then have two minutes to comment." 

President Ford planned to do "a great deal of study and preparation for" the Sept. 23 debate. He denied, however, that White House aide would play the role of Carter during rehearsals. 

'Disservice' to Dole, admits Gulf Oil 
by Barbara Breitenstein Senior StaH Reporter 

Republican vice-presidential candidate Robert Dole yesterday accepted a public apology from former Gulf Oil Corporation lobby­ist Claude C. Wild, Jr., who had accused the Kansas senator of receiving illegal campaign funds, according to a story in the Sept. 9 New York Times. 
Wild said that he was "confi­sation that took place" during an extended meeting with the Dillon hall government and staff late last night. 

"I'm looking for Dillon Hall to face up to the responsibility," said Roemer, who added that small groups of Dillonites will "slip unobtrusively into the halls" and clean up shaving cream, torn posters and other damages. 
"At any objection they will immediately leave," he explained. Leaders in each group will be depended on to remedy any con­flict. Roemer also stated that he expected much of the cleanup to be completed by Friday morning. ' 
A damage assessment will be made, according to the dean, and Dillon will take financial responsi­bility. He suggested that some type of special event might be necessary to raise sufficient funds. 
Most halls visited 

The Dillon Run began shortly after seven p.m., with a group of 150 students, mostly freshmen, visitng each hall with the intent of generating enthusiasm for the Dillon pep rally, according to Dillon president Tom O'Neil. 
Most halls visited by the run­ners, however, were touched by some form of damage, as posters were torn and shaving cream was sprayed on the walls and doors. 
Fr. Richard Conyers, rector of Keenan, reported that his hall suffered substantial amounts of 
minor damages. 
"The most serious damage was a broken light fixture, two broken exit signs, two bulletin boards, and a dresser in the corridor," said Conyers. "Extensive damage was done by shaving crea, which stains the paint on our doors," he added. 
Conyers also noted that one of the perpetrators had cut his hand on the broken light and sought attention for his wound in Keenan. 
Zahm was also victimized by the "run," suffering damaged bulletin boards and walls decorated by shaving cream. 
Alumni reported overturned trash barrels, destroyed posters, and other havor created by shaving cream and eggs. Fisher and Badin apparently also incurred minor damage. Hall staffs of Stanford and Pangborn prevented the group's entry there. 
Dillon takes responslbillty 
"We take the responsibility," said O'Neill, "but not the total blame. The intent was to have a pep rally, not to cause trouble." 

O'Neill suggested that much of the damage was a result of the hostility the Dillonites were con­fronted with when they arrived. Saying that it was "nothing like in the past,'' he contended that the runners met with fisticuffs and dangerous projectiles last night, contributing to the situation that led to much of the damage. He blamed ''poor supervision for the affair, and voiced Dillon's desire to prevent any undersirable relations between halls. 
"Dillon must face responsibility for the damages,'' affirmed Roemer, who personally surveyed Zahm and Keenan before confer­ring with Dillon Hall officials last night. He added, '_:Any future attempts to visit halls in groups will no longer be tolerated." 
Roemer also noted that students in other halls who greeted the runners with violence were partly responsible. He added that "vig­


orous student disciplinary action" Minor among the Run's destruc­will be taken should his investiga-tion was this example of a use for tion show that individual students shaving cream. (Photo by jim created physical violence. Hofman) 

~:n;:·iJh~! ~~:;~~:~n0~r~~r~::~~ !****************************~~ 
1970. He explained that since a~ Student Union Social Commission wants you to come to our iC 
series of press interviews Monday ~ in which he said he gave Dole the ~ money, he realized that he had ~ 
actually put the $2000 in a safety~
deposit box. ~ The "mistake" came, according 1C to Wild, when he was "questioned~ unexpectedly, and before I had~ time to review my records of 1e something that allegedly happened~ six years earlier," he said. "After~ 
looking at the records and mater-~
ials I have, I am confident I have~ 
~=~~ j~neer;o;er~:~s ~~~::r~~~:t!~! 
Senator Dole:'' ~ In his ori~inal statement to the 1e press on Monday, Wild claimed to~ have a letter to support his conten-~ tion the money had gone to Dole.~ 
Wild said yesterday that he could~ 
~~~~. ~ 
Wildfailedtomention, however,~
his January grand jury testimony in~ 
which he stated that"he had passed. 
$5,000 to $6,000 to Dole in 1973. ~ 
Dole has denied these reports. ~ According to the Times, Dole~ -called the matter an "unfortunate'1' 
. incident" and added, "Let's get on~
with the campaign." He also said~ that the "statement made this '1' morning (Thursday) by .Mr. Wild, I~ think, clarifies the situation very ,:t dra~~tically. We are satisfied to-1" 

day. 
~ ~ 
~
BLOc·K ~ ~ 
. . · 1e 
~ ~ ~ ~




PARTy, , , ~ 
~ 
~ 
• • • ! 
~ 
~ ~
1e 

Sat Sept 11 9pm -1 am ~ 
·' ~ ~ 
St C t CELEBRATE Q R C ~ 
epan en er U VI TORY I I I I I 1« 
FREE 

M by·. FAWN
US ic 

* SALOONS 
....., 
~ 
1e 
~ ~ 
FIREWORKS DISPLAY ~ 
'1'
1C 
~ 
*COKE ~
1e 
the observer
4 

lnPIRG plans extensive year despite low operating capital 
Nazz and Nazz Deli set to re-open soon 

Reid, Assistant Director of Studentby Kate Smelser Activities, are involved in planning StaH Reporter 
the new semester for the Nazz and Nazz Deli.
This semester will bring the Since the aim of the Nazz isreopening of the Nazz, and with it, primarily to furnish entertainment,the return of the Nazz Deli. 

specific plans for providing foodAs last semester's month long must wait while Fanning schedules experiment, the Nazz ~eli offered appearances for musicians andwaitress-served sandwtches and other Nazz performers. Reid alsobeverages, while students enjo~ed stated that the semester outlook for Nazz music. A sub-sandwtch the Nazz should be more definite in dubbed "The Nazzwich," and sold a few days.
by the inch, proved the most According to Reid, the Studentpopular item on the menu. 

Life Council sensed a need for 
Favorable response from Nazz students to find relaxed entertain­patrons made possible the reopen­ment and a sociable atmosphere ing of the Deli. Pat Fanning, head outside their dorms. "The goal of of the Nazz. Tom Grogan of the the Nazz Deli," said Reid. "is to 
University Food Service, and John bring students together.'' 
long distance calls from the privacy of your room, and at direct-dial rates. That's a lot easier and more economical than any other way. Besides, there's no waiting in line, and 
you keep the change. To get your STUDENT 
BILLING CARD just call 237-8182. 


@Indiana Bell 
,, 

·••••r:••••••••••••••••wlflfiWI''''''''''' 
by Jack C. SUhavy StaH Reporter 

In spite of a lack of funding, the Indiana Public Interest Research Group (INPIRG) of Notre Dame will be very active this,year. 
They are a public service group investigating problems of the Notre Dame community as well as South Bend. The ND chapter is part of the state-wide organization based in South Bend. 
INPIRG's five main. areas of concern this year are environmen-. tal protection, consumer study projects, health, safety and con­sumer rights and protection. Projects within these areas will be decided upon at their next meeting, Sept. 22. 
Last year funds were raised by putting a $3 charge on students' bills and individuals not wanting this charge simply sent back an enclosed card. A total of $15,000 was raised this way. This year, however, the system was changed at the administration's request. Students filled out cards if they did want to contribute. 
Only about $500 was raised this year. InPIRG chairman Julie Engle­hart said that she heard many students say that they forgot to return the cards. 
"Even with a change in funds we are not dead," Englehart com­mented,"We're just as much alive as ever.'· 

The Consumer Product Safety Commission granted InPIRG $2300 this year for a series of public , education programs. The focus will be on child care, nursery and outdoor power equipment. The programs will be held at hospitals and other public organizations and try to "reduce potential for ac­cidents." 
Another thing InPIRG is looking into is an action line set up with the South Bend Tribune. This would serve the ND and South Bend communities. Plans are not yet finalized but Englehart thinks it would be a good idea, saying that the ND manpower and telephone service would be an advantage to the Tribune. The Tribune offers a vast source of information gather-
women's b-ball to begin soon 

Notre Dame women interested in trying out for the Notre Dame women's basketball team are encouraged to participate in a_ conditioning program beginning Thursday, Sept. 16, from 7-9 p.m. in Gym 1 of the ACC. 
This conditioning program will include scrimmages every Sunday, Monday and Thursday from 7-9 
p.m. Official tryouts for the team will be in October. 
If there are any questions, ': contact Sally Duffy, Lewis Halltrector, at 7514. 
Junior class 
sponsors trip 

to Northwestern 
The ND-SMC junior class is sponsoring a bus . trip to the Northwestern football game in Evanston, Ill., on Nov. 25. Tickets are $19~and include the game and bus tickets and beer on the bus. 
The trip will be opened to the entire student body on Sunday, Nov. 12. There are now only 100 tickets left, according to SMC junior class president Nancy Mogab. 
Buses will leave Saturday morn­ing at 10 a.m. from the Morris Inn and will return that night after a party for the class given by the Notre Dame Alumni Club of Evanston. 
For tickets and more informa­tion, call Mogab at 4527 or any .bth«<r jun~qr class officer. 
t 


ing services in return, she noted. 
"In addition, InPIRG would like to work closely with Student Gov­ernment this year. We think it will be beneficial to both groups," said Englehart. 
"lnPIRG has two goals on cam­pus this year,'' said Dave Carlyle, an InPIRG director:•one is to be a vehicle for social action and the other is to be educators. To a great extent we want to educate, meaning education through in­volvement as well as information given to the students," he said. 
Other projects for this year include a guidebook to the voter, and a consumer ha:ndbook for the student. 
A handbook was distributed last year to aid students in choosing where and for what to shop. It included pharmaceutical items and groceries as well as banking ser­vices. The same things will probably be included this year. 
"We try to hit as many areas as possible/' said Englehart. "It's not that these things are dreamt up. They're real things we're working on.'' 


Right now InPIRG is contacting organizations looking for projects. They believe that they do not need to go looking outside the area. "Many organizations need or want help with their present projects," Englehart commented. "These organizations will probably be sending out questionaires to each faculty member asking for ideas on future projects. They will also ask for any contribution in time or background knowledge." 
Englehartstated thatthe ND and SMC chapters are working towards a merge. This would increase man and project power. 
The first general meeting of InPirg this year will be held Sept. 22 in LaFortune at 7:30 p.m. Students can then choose projects they would like to work on and form committees. 
... this card will let you call long distance from your room faster and at less cost than any other way. 
If you live in a residence hall, making a long distance call can be a hassle. 
You either have to call collect (and that costs extra), or wait in line at a pay phone with a couple of pounds of change in your pocket. 
Well there's a way around all that. Get your 
free STUDENT BILLING CARD from Indiana 
Bell. A Student Billing Card lets you make 
• ~ ~ I I . I ." • . . ' • . I I ./ I I . I I 

---·-----------------------------------------------~--------------~~----~--~----~~--~ 
5 

Chair-holder Craig to be honored 
Dr. George B. Craig, Jr., the first Clark Professor of Biology at Notre Dame, will deliver a lecture entitled "Mosquitoes, Enceph­alitis, and Notre Dame" at 3:30 
p.m. Friday (Sept. 10) in the Center for Continuing Education auditor­ium. 
The public is invited to attend the lecture, which is part of inaugural ceremonies honoring the holder of the George and Winifred Clark Chair in Biology. The chair was created in 1971 from a fund for distinguished professors establish­ed in 1954 by Mr. and Mrs. George 
C. Clark and a bequest from the estate of Clark, who headed the George C. Clark Metal Last Com­pany, Inc. in Mishawaka until his death in 1960. 
Director of the Vector Biology Laboratory at Notre Dame, Craig is internationally recognized for his pioneering research in mosquito DR. GEORGE B. CRAIG 

America, Executive Committee member of the World Organization for Biological Control and director ofthe World Health Organization's International Reference Centre for Aedes mosquitoes, located at Notre Dame. 
Speech and debate Team formed, j 


seeks new members , plans year 
The Notre Dame Speech and Michigan State and Bowling began in July. The national topic Debate Team, operating under a Green. for debate, Consumer Product new organizational structure this Beginning last year the team Safety, was received during the year, is inviting any students who shifted its base of operations to the summer, and Phil Burksaze, presi­have had any background in speech Speech and Drama department, dent of the club, and Ed Caldwell, and debate, or anyone who might and appointed a new advisor, vice-president, have been be interested to join jn on the Frank L. Zink. The team is now researching the topic. Burksaze, activities. prepared to expand its programs to who placed 26 out of 250 at the 
The debaters will be competing offer involvement to all students National Speech Contest last year this year in the areas of original who are interested. "The programs at Cal Tech Fullerton says that oratory, Dramatic Interpretation, at the University of Michigan and participation in the team's activi­Persuasion, Extemporaneous Michigan State," Zink says, "had ties is beneficial to the student not Speaking, and Impromptu speak-a great appeal to many students. only because of its team spirit but ing as well as the traditional debate We would like to get that kind of because of the way it can help contests. program started here at Notre increase self-confidence. The ex­
Planned meets for the team this Dame. There are over 150 fresh­posure to different people from all year include the Ohio State Invita-men alone with some kind of over the country in competition. tiona!, the Georgetown Invitational background in debate, and we Burksaze points out, "is a tremen­and the Niagara Invitational, as emphatically state the openness of dous aid to understanding yourself, well as tournaments at Appalachia our program to these people." and how you communicate with State and the University of Ken-Planning for this year's meets others." 
genetics and medical entomology. Craig joined the Notre Dame tucky. .-----------------------.--------------------------.
The team will be sponsoring an 
He is a member of the National faculty in 1957 soon after obtaining 
Invitational at Notre Dame on Nov. 
Run For Student Assembly!

Academy of Science's Committee his doctorate from the University of 
5,6, and 7. Last year, the tourna­
on Innovative Approaches to Pest Illinois. His undergraduate degree 
ment waS' won by the University of
Control, governing board member in zoology is frQm Indiana Univer­
Iowa with strong showings from 
Representatives for Holy Cross, McCandless,
of the Entomological Society of sity. 
Regina, or LeMons! Also for Off-campus SMC students!



Stand assignments to be by lottery 
by Maureen O'Brien the Pitt game and we have already Concession stands may not be staff Reporter notified the clubs which have a sublet to any group.or individuals. 
Nominations are open until Sept. 11th. 
concession stand," he said. Health regulations for food must be Concession stand assignments The organizations which have obeyed. 
Campaigns run from Sept. 12th to Sept. 16th.
for the Notre Dame-Purdue game concesssion stands ofr the Pitt A complete list of the regulations will be determined by lottery this game are: Sorin Hall, Glee Club, for football concession stands can morning, but organizations that Pitt Club, Swim Team, Chicago be obtained at the Student Activi­
Sept. 17 th is ELECTION DAY!

have not yet registered with the Club, Pre-Med Society, St. Ed's ties office. Student Activities office will be Hall, Graduate History Club, Soccer eligible for concession stands at the Team, American Society of Civil other home games. Engineers, Lewis Hall, Handball 
Submit nominations and platforms to
John Reid, assistant director of Club and the Knights of Columbus. 
FAST

student activities, announced yes­''All organizations must fill out a 
Carla Iacona,

terday that a second lottery will be request for this year to be eligible 
TYPEWRITER
held Tuesday to allow more organ­for the remaining four home 

413 LeMans
SERVICE

izations to participate. Any interes­games," Reid stated. "There are ted club, organization or hall must 13 available concession stands and 

Ph.4728



11:1:1:'6·1 
contact the Student Activities office the Knights ofColumbusalways has 
2915 Mishawaka Ave. 
by midnite S 11th

by 5 p.m. Monday. one of the stands since they are a 
We would like to clear up non-profit organization,.. he add­whatever confusion exists regar­ed. "Every organization that ap­ding the concession stands," Reid plies is assured at least one of these stated. spots," Reid said. 

The Fireworks .Festival! 
''Some organizations put in a bid All proceeds from the stands last year for a concession stand for must go to the club organization. 3 da)Cs of music, food, refreshments and fireworks 
Friday September 10-rock and roll featuring 
HELD OVER.. JAMES. CAAN 
ELLIOT GOULD-MICHAEL 
CAINE-DIANE KEATON .. IN 




BROWNSVILLE STATION 
and the electric blues of
!.HARRY~ WAI.:tER 
COTO NEW YORK LUTHER ALLISON a~d MAGI 
W EEKDA YS-7 :00-9:30 SA T.SUN.2 :15--4:-40-7:00-9:30 P.M 
Sunday September 12

Saturday September 11 
"THIS MOVIE IS A ZINGER AT HEART"-LIZ SMITH 
country & westernrock from Detroit 

11th WEEK-MEL'S BEST TO DATE" -NEWSWEEK 

NARVEL FELTS

FRIJID PINK
MEL BROOKS DOM DELUISE 

and formerly of Ides of March and South Bend's own
MARTY FELDMAN 

South Shore

Weekdays ~,LE..-.(PGJ Jim Peterik 
7:15-9:20 ~J ~ \ .. 

and Finals of
Blackstone,

SAT.&S.UNilg~~,~
1:50 5.15 ~ y 
Battle of The Bands 



, and TOUCH
3:-40 7:15 ~. 
9:20 ~ ,~ 

battle of the bands 11:00 a.m. -7:00 p.m. daily! 

liDhUY Fireworks Display corn Roast/Sausaae/Retreshlents 
Tickets: S7.SO for three day pass; $4.00 for Friday and Sunday individual day tickets; $3.00 for Saturday tickets and now on sale at the following River City Review Ticket Outlets: Just For The Record (Mishawaka), Boogie Records (Mishawaka), Record Joint (Niles), Suspended Chord (Elkhart & Goshen), Notre Dame Student Unicn, Pandora's (South Bend), Jennifer·s (Scottsdale Mall), World of Sound (Plymouth) and Cripe's Home Entertainment Center (Nappannee). Stay tuned to WRBR for further details. 
Outdoors at Wander Conservation Club 13040 Day Road· M is haw aka 
Directions from South Bend: Edison Rd. East to dead-end at Grape Rd. North 1 block to Day Road. Take Day Road East 4 miles. Gat~s open 4:00 p.m. Friday, 11:00 a.m. Saturday and Sunday. 

6 

WHERE TO FIND IT ON THE FIRST FLOOR OF THE HAMMES NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
1. 
ENTER 14. SCHOOL SUPPLIES 

2. 
NOTRE DAME 15. ART GALLERY SPORTSWEAR 16. BRIEF BAGS 

3. 
JACKETS 17. PICTURES & PLAQUES 

4. 
CAPS 18. RELIGIOUS JEWELRY 

5. 
BLAZERS 19. FASHION JEWELRY 

6. 
IMPRINT SHOPS 20. NOTRE DAME JEWELRY 

7. 
COPYING 20. PENS 


2 

8. 
NOVELTIES 21. CALCULATORS 

9. 
INSIGNIA WARE 21. UP TO BOOK DEPARTMENT 

10. 
GREETING CARDS 23. PARCEL CHECK 



ll n s 

11. 
RECORDS 24. 12 CHECKOUT STATIONS 

12. 
HEALTH & BEAUTY AIDS TO BETTER SERVE YOU ...... . 

13. 
STATIONARY & NOTES 25. EXIT ONLY 


Ju 

Please use this WEST entrance ~
0 ~
1 
11 . 




DDCE:EC 
13 
sl

23 rEF~l--i t -a
D 
DD


D ·10 
I~I -r--------rlI Ef B 
0 ~$~
0 9 

WHERE TO FIND BOOKS ON THE UPPER LEVEL OF THE HAMMES BOOKSTORE AT NOTRE DAME 

ECOLOGY/NATURE 
POLITICAL SCIE~~~IGION SOCIOLOGY 

EE==:t=~;EI~~±±==t=l~~~l 
FICTION COOKING 
REFERENCE 
DRAMA 


I I I 

FILM N D PRESS GAMES MISCELLANEOUS MUSIC 
BIOGRAPHY PSYCHOLOGY 
I I 
NEW PUBLICATIONS 

HUMOR TRAVEL 


1. ENGLISH 25. BIOLOGY 33. LAW
9. MUSIC 17. ENGINEERING CORE
2. COLLEGIATE SEMINAR 26. EARTH SCIENCE 34. ART
10. FINANCE 18. ARCHITECTURE
3. GENERAL PROGRAM 27. CHEMISTRY 35. MET ENGR.
11. ACCOUNTING 19. AEROSPACE ENGR. 
4. 
GOVERNMENT 28. PHYSICS 36. MILITARY SCIENCE 

12 MARKETING 20. CHEMICAL ENG.

5. 
SOCIOLOGY 29. PHILOSOPHY

13. MATHEMATICS 21 CIVIL ENG.

6. 
AMERICAN STUDIES 30. PSYCHOLOGY

14. MANAGEMENT 22 ELE~TRICAL ENG.

7. 
MODERN LANGUAGES 31. THEOLOGY

15. M.B.A. 23. UNIFIED SCIENCE 

8. 
HISTORY 32. SPEECH & DRAMA


16. ECONOMICS 24. MICROBIOLOGY 
The Bookstore will NOT be open after the game. on Saturday. S~ore hours : Monday -Saturday 9 -5 
• I '
.. ' 
' • '', 4 ' 



Friday, Sept. 10, 1976 
the observer 
7 






Ford announces stand on abortion 
By Frank Cormier Associated Press Writer 

WASHINGTON (AP) -President Ford opposes a constitution ban on abortion but hopes to persuade Roman Catholic leaders that he is more sympathetic to their anti­abortion views than Democratic presidential candidate Jimmy Carter. 
While House Press Secretary Ron Nessen said Thursday that Ford does not favor a proposed constitutional amendment banning abortion but does favor a constitu­tional amendment that would per­mit each state to set its own policy on the controversial medical procedure. 
One Catholic cardinal, three archbishops and two bishops had an appointment with Ford today to discuss the abortion issue and any other topics of mutual interest that might come up. 
Those meeting with Ford today were Archbishop Joseph Bernardin of Cincinnati, president of the National Conference of Catholic Bishops; Archbishop John Carberry of St. Louis, vice president of the group; Terrence 
Larry Conrad blasts Gov. Bowen 
INDIANAPOLIS (AP)-Secretary of State Larry A. Conrad, Demo­cratic nominee for governor, accused Republican Gov. Otis R. Bowen Thursday of delegating too much of his responsibilities to aides. 
Conrad replaced Bowen for the taping of this week's syndicated television show, "Report from the Statehouse." 
Conrad had accused Bowen of using the show for political advan­tage and that the governor's semi­weekly appearances violated federal standards. The Democrat demanded either equ::> time or that Bowen quit appearin~;;. 
Later Thursday, Conrad said in Elkhart, "Indiana has a Republican governor who appears to surround himself with highly paid executive officials. They in turn are the ones who investigate problems that erupt in the Bowen administration. 
"It is the executive officials in the Bowen administration sur­rounding the governor's office who presumably speak for state govern­ment when problems develop in the prison system, the Real Estate Commission or conflict of interest develops in Gov. Bowen's Public Service Commission, which has been imposing record-high utility rates on Indiana consumers." 
Cardinal Cooke of New York City, · 
Archbishop John J. McGuire of 
New York, Bishop James W. 
Malone of Youngstown, Ohio and 
Bishop James S. Rausch. 
The session recalled a similar one Carter held here Aug. 31 after which a spokesman for the bishops expressed disappointment in the Democratic nominee's position on abortion. Carter refused to endorse a constitutional amendment ban­ning abortion. He said he person­ally opposes abortion and any use of federal funds to pay for abor­tions. 
Archbishop Bernardin said "personal opposition is not enough." 
Ford caused some confusion at a news conference Wednesday by endorsing the idea of letting each state decide, but also firmly embracing the Republican party's platform plank on abortion. 
That plank states that the GOP "supports the efforts of those who seek enactment of a constitutional amendment to restore protection of 
the right to life for unborn child-PRESIDENT GERALD FORD ren." This had been commonly interpreted to mean support for an amendment that bans abortion. 
Conrad also termed Bowen a "fair weather administrator" who appears when it is assured that controversy is not associated with an event. 
A spokesman for WTTV, product of "Report from the Statehouse," noted that Conrad was invited for this week's 30-minute segment as secretary of state and not the Democratic nominee for governor. 
Conrad appeared before the same panel of newsmen who interviewed Bowen two weeks ago. 
Bowen took his campaign to Fort Wayne, Thursday, telling a ban­quet of the 12th District Indiana State Medical Association the state could follow other states into financial distress if elected officials do not meet their responsibility to manage government prudently. 
"We believe Indiana state gov­ernment has an enduring commit­ment to work prudently in the best interest of every Hoosier, and that's why we work so hard to see to it that government does its proper part, so that the free enterprise system and the best­trained, hardworking free labor force in the world can do their part," he said. 
The governor said when the 1973 recession hit, Indiana was able to 
USE OBSERVER 
CLASSIFIEDS 
DAILY 

SUNDAY MASSES 
(Main Church) 
5:15 p.m. Sat 
Rev. Robert Griffin, C.S.C. 
s~J.';! !!o,nq ~IOU~

9:30 a.m. Sun Rev. Edward O'Connor, C.S.C. 
SlllCC yuu ve been gone Doc Pterce·s Saloon ha::. opened tts doors to lavish stamed glass ~verywhere

10:45 a.m. Sun SOLEMN OPENING MASS 
Dark woods set the mood for live entertainment 
six nights a week. A lavish menu that boasts of

FOR THE 1976 SCHOOL YEAR 
prime steaks and shrimp steamed in beer And we Rev. Theodore M. He·sburgh, C.S.C 
certainly can't fail to mention our house specialty Three. original portions that come in 32 ounce doses is

-Celebrant 
bound to cure anything that ales ya' For lunch. for dinner. or after the game, Doc Pierce's

Rev. James T. Burtchaell, C.S.C. 
is like no physical you've ever had. Delicious' -Homilist 
Just ten minutes from campus. 

ride out the storm with the help of its '<onstitution debt prohibition while less fortunate states had delays, cutbacks and abandonment of programs. He said economic policy has changed from the de­pression era when Americans learned from their experience. 
Senior trip reservations now being taken 
The Senior Trip Committee will begin taking reservations and $50 deposits from any senior who wishes to be placed on a new waiting list for the California trip. 
As of now, there ar_!! a limited number of openings remaining for the trip. Notre Dame seniors may sign up in the LaFortune ballroom and St. Mary's seniors in 168 LeMans Hall on Monday Sept. 13, and Tuesday Sept. 14, beginning at 1 p.m. 
The committee also announced that the final price for the trip has been set at $246, which is nine dollars lower than the figure an­nounced last year. Final payments, which are due on Oct. 3 through Oct. 8 must be made by these dates. 
Those who have not paid will be removed from the original list and their $50 deposit will not be reimbursed. However, their names will be placed at the top of the waiting list. Those on the waiting list who do not get on the trip will be refunded their $50 deposit. 
'NDAiumni Assoc. to hold meetings Directors of the 55,000-member Alumni Association of the Univer­sity of Notre Dame will attend a series of informational sessions here this weekend. the first under the direction of Tobert E. Dowd, Cleveland business executive and 1976-n president of the group. University executives will brief the group at meetings extending 
•
through Saturday night in the Center for Continuing Education. Speakers include Rev. Theodore 

M. 
Hesburgh, C.S.C., president. who will give a general review of the University programs. Rev. James T. Burtchaell, C.S.C., pro­vost, Br0ther Just Paczesnv, 

C. 
S.C., vice president for studeill affairs, Dr. James W. Frick. vice president for public relations and development, and Dr. Emil T. Hofman, dean of the Freshman Year of Studies Program. 


has hRrr>8neJ Ill m!rJ-town Ml~hawnh.a 

12:15 p.m. Sun Rev. William Toohey, C.S.C. Vespers will be at 7:15 p.m. in Lady Chapel. 

'AM..,.tetW~ ~ 
.·· •JUST DOWNWIND FROM BALL BAND

Celebrant wi.ll be 
120 W. Main St., Midtown Mishawaka 25G-7737 

Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C. 

*T~J~~~~r,ver
The Observer is published by students I of the Univer­sity of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opin­ion of a majority of the Edito­rial Board. Commentaries are the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members ofthe community, and letters are encouraged to promote the free expression of varying opinions on campus. 

Business Manager Tom Fronczak Advertising Manager Mike Miller Photo Editor Tony Chifari Production Manager Martha L. Fanning 
Friday, Sept. 10, 1976 






P.O. BoxQ 

this campus. So I wish Crossroads 
Park could be fast obliterated, or 
left to fall down and overgrow at 
what is assuredly going to be a fast 
pace. 
Leslie H. Martin
Associate Professor 

P.S. Was there a special on red bricks? 
•1
0 1 ReI ey 

seXist 

Dear Editor: h' 
So, The Observer is branc mg out this year, reviewing restau­rants. I just might have been impressed but it was a shame that your on the scene reporter, Tim O'Reiley' was not quite ready to leave "D~mesvil!e" and venture 
out there, m pubhc. 
. I refer to the statemen~. oh so 
Thomas O'Neil Editor-in-Chief Dan Sanchez Managing Editor Chris Smith Asst. Managing Ed. Gregg Bangs Executive Editor 
Val Zurblis Executive Editor 
Pat Hanifin Editorial Editor 
Bob Mader Exec. News Editor 
Maureen Flynn Campus Editor 
Marti Hogan St. Mary's Editor 
Don Reimer Copy Editor Tim O'Reiley' Features editor 
Fred Herbst · Sports Editor 
_vital to the ~estaurant ~evlew, ~f the because it's "crude" or juvenile, 
SIZe of~e waltr7sse~. It!~ one thmg but because everyone concerned to .not,!ce their s1ze. upon en-had a great time. tenng , but somethmg else en-For all the men here at Notre tirely to warn readers not to be Dame 1 thank all the girls at Saint 
scared away. If this is cruci_al for Mary's and those here on campus you Tim, eat your meals m. an who participated. And a special
airplane where they have weight thanks from Grace Hall to all The regulations, or politely excuse Tower Girls of LeMans who must yourself by saying, "I'm sorry, have donated their next three food just doesn't taste the same weeks worth of clothes to the served by a fat waitress." I cause. 
My suggestion to you is to go eat at the Boar's Head, an all time ' favorite of domers and their par-' ents, get served by a Boar's Head boy and ask for the table nearest U.S. 31. 
Mary Kane 

Editor's Note: See facing page for instant service. 
Panty Raids 


Praised 

To Dean Roemer: 
Even though I don't know you, sir, I feel compelled to write this after reading your statements on panty raid policy in The Observer. I feel further qualified to write on this subject after having been an active participant in these raids on Wednesday night. 
I believe that I speak for most of the campus when I say that we realize that the position you occupy is a difficult one. Trying to keep the Peace in any institution is not _an
h 

easy job, nor one t at you rece1ve many thanks for. But I differ with you on what is "degrading," or 
"not worthy of Notre Dame men." 1 am a freshman and that's not the easiest thing in the world to be this time of year. College is a whole 
different ballgame than high school, and at times it gets to be a little lonely. especially when all you have staring you in the face is 100 pages of work that has to be read by•'the next day.
The panty raid is something that most freshman men look forward to to break up the monotony of the week before the big game on Saturday. It was a great way to blow off steam, meet new friends, and get a few new phone numbers. 1 think that everyone who partici­pated in it would do it again, not 
Kevin Wltaslch Class of 1980 
Cruelty 


to Pigs 

Dear Editor: 
I must express my support for Mr. Price's recent humanitarian activities. He was absolutely justi­fied in refusing to allow this sadistic pig farmer(?) from picking up our garbage and feeding it t~ his livestock. I would never cons1der forcing pigs to eat dining hall food. If pigs could talk, I am sure they 
I would all thank you Mr. Price, for the significant improvement in their cuisine. 
Yours in Nausea, MlchaelMcLarnon 

DOONESBURY 
MR..~ I ~ cer<TAINtY APPRECI­: ATG YOtJR. 7JlK!Nf3 • 71113 TIME 7lJ COI1~ ~ /JOWN //EiRE 70 
--~ME! 
TOO tFT~ WE STIIT£S­
MEN T!WO 7() FOR6£3T 
7HAT IQ~ Mt/ST Ht£0 THE 
R45T IF W& ARE 7lJ 
AVOIO MAK!Ne 711& 
SM-1~ MISTAKES IN 
-7HE R/llJRe! 
by Garry Trudeau 
YOf/R. IN51GH75 INTO f0R£16N POLICY AR&MOST PROVOCifTIYE_ E3P&CIAUY 
71105& PCI?TlUNIN6 7() / Ot/R RECENT PAST! 
Just Have Fun 


iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii~iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii joe giII 
When it comes to turning over a 

new leaf or making vows to reform 
old ways, New Year's Day can't 
compete with the beginning of 
September in the life of a college 
student. 
Since returning to Notre Dame, aspirations like "No more al_I­nighters" have filled academic conversations. Stringent schedules have been adopted, replete with fixed hours of .class, study, and relaxation. Students are ready to · begin anew, and the old habits of last semester have been thrown off, as old clothes that no longer fit the 
new physique of a growing man. 
I, too, have made these vows, 

but in a different way, one that 
concerns attitudes rather than time 
slots. I've decided just to have fun. 
During the summer, I read "The 

Fires of Spring" by James 
Michener. It was an enjoyable 
novel, and I found that Michener 
had many valuable insights into 
life, and a smooth style to carry 
them over. Not only that, but the 
book itself was almost 500 pages 
long, and just completing it was an 
accomplishment. A feeling of self­
satisfaction quelled within me back 
then, a strange feeling, because all 
I had really done was read a book, 
certainly no mean feat. But looking 
back, I think I know why I felt that 
way. 
When one completes a job or a 

project, there is usually some s~n~e 
of achievement. But when It IS 
something that doesn't have to be 
done, that is not a requirement in 
any way, shape, or form, then the 
reward is even greater. H one 
chooses to build a model airplane. 
then the laborious hours and the 
painstaking care in which the parts 
are assembled are both a reflection 
of the amount of satisfaction at 
finishing and a tangible symbol of 
that person's work. 
Or is it a symbol of his time at 

play? 
I thoroughly enjoyed reading 

''The Fires of Spring,'' yet, ifit had 
been required reading for school, I 
don't think I would have relished it 
half as much as I did. Hit had bee:t 
required, I'm sure that I would 
have labelled it as "work," but 
because it was of my own volition, 
it almost has to be called "play." 
In the same breath, though, there 
were books that I read for the 
school year that I took great 
pleasure in reading, and they to 
me, certainly were not work. 
But perhaps the resolution to the "work or play" dilemma isn't found within the framework of why 
something is being done, but 
rather, in that person's attitude 
toward it. A concrete example of 
this is found in Mark Twain's 
"Tom Sawyer." Tom has just been 
given the undesirable job of white­
washing the fence, and as he 
began, "life to him seemed hollow, 
and existence but a burden ... He 
began to think of the fun he had 
planned for this day, and his 
sorrows multiplied.'' 
But then, as Twain writes "~­spiration burst upon him!" Tom had decided, as the reader later realized, to make what seemed to all but Tom dull and dreary work, something that appeared to be fun. Tom hoped not only to have the fence whitewashed, but to enjoy doind it, and' in this way lure his friends into doing it for him. 
Ben Rogers, Tom's longtime crony, proved to be his first victim. Ben came skipping by, and stopped when he noticed what Tom was doing. He could not resist taunting Tom, who was forced to be working on a beautiful Saturday, when "there was cheer in every face, and a spring in every step," and especially, when there was no school. Ben mordantly remarked, "Say, Tom, I'm going in a-swim­ming, I am. Don't you wish you could? But of course you'd druther work--wouldn't you? Course you would!" 
Tom contemplated the boy a bit, a~d said: "What do you call work?" 
Ben replied "Why, ain't that work?" 
Tom resumed his whitewashing, and answered carelessly "Well maybe it is, and maybe it ain't. All I know, is, it suits Tom Sawyer." 
B~u said, sarcastically, "Oh, ' come, now, you don't mean to let on that you like it?" 
With that remark, Ben was hooked, and finally had to trade an avple with Tom for the chance to v·hitewash the fence. And every oi:her boy that came along had to barter with Tom to get a chance to paint. Tom had discovered that one way to make work desirable is to define it as being fun. 
So it was with myself. Perhaps this year, I can use this principle in dealing with my schoolwork, for it is only a preparation in dealing With my schoolwork, for it is only a preparation for my life's vocation, and if I don't enjoy it now, how am I supposed to enjoy it in the future? 1 After all, who wants to work for a living, anyway? 

---~-~-----------------­
It was a mistake to ask her to have a drink at one-thirty in the afternoon. She had already tole me that she hadn't had breakfast. It was now one-thirty, and we were seated in McBell's for lunch. To be gracious, I suggested that she have a Bloody Mary. "As an eye-opener," I said in a phase borrowed from clever menus, "have a Bloody Mary." She would really prefer a Brandy Alexander, she said. Did I mind if she had a Brandy Alexander? Of course I didn't mind, I said, though privately I have always considered that the Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire began with Brandies Alexander lapped up on empty stomachs in the noonday heat of the Quirinal. 
So we sat in McBell's Irish pub on Sixth Avenue under a photograph of a New Orleans trolley, the Streetcar Named Desire, her sipping the Alexandrian punch (she eventually had five of them, though no one was counting) and me nursing a gin and tonic, and we talked about the street people , on the sidewalk outside. She was a lovely young woman, intensely committed as a Christian, professionally trained as a Jesus worker; and if I mention the drinking, it is only to explain how things were in Glocca Morra that fine day. 
"The street winos are beginning to bother me," I said. "The ones in front of the rectory are constantly out of control; always mindless, never knowing or caring what they're doing; frightening the 
--------~------------------------­
Friday, Sept. 10, 1976 the observer 
------------~~~~~~~~----~ 

Letters to a Lonely God 
si Ia jeunesse sauait 


women with their panhandling. After a while, -l find myself brushing past them, when they ask for money as though they were non-persons." It bothered me to treat human beings as though they were non-persons and mere obstacles cluttering the street. 
"Don't you see, Bob," she said, not knowing that I despise being called Bob by women half my age, ''Don't you see: They are us; we are them. If they are out of control, we are out of control. If they are non-persons, we are non-persons too. Cosmically, we belong together, and they are us; we are them. 
I'm talking about the winos on Sixth Avenue," I said. "They use the rectory do9rway as a urinaL. They throw up on the steps of the church. They steal the brass nameplates off the fronts of our buildings. Right now, during the hours after mid­night, they are attacking the grill work on the front door, twisting it off. They get about five bucks for the metal they steal, and it costs us two or three hundred dollars to replace it." 
''The meanest insect that crawls,'' she said, "is part of God's own life. Read Chardin's essay on the Divine Energy." 
"They've resigned from the human race," I said. "They've drugged their brains until they don't know what they are doing. They've given up being respon­sible. It makes me sad that I can't be worried about them, but there are too many other people -old, alone, helpless, 



the entertainment week 
dauid o'keefe 
on the tube 
Friday, September 10 
8:30 PM, Channel 22: C.C. and Company: For those of you who appreciate fine acting and object to actors and actresses appear­ing in films solely for their sexual appeal, forget it. Joe Namath and Ann-Margaret star in this mangy motorcycle movie. 
Saturday, September 11 
3:00 PM 28: College footbaU: The fighting Irish of the University of Notre Dame, their band, the students, their mothers, the Catholic Church, the Subway Alumni, Father Hesburgh, Officer Dan McCarthy and God take on Pitt and a guy in a panther suit. 
Sunday, Septhember 12 
12:00 Pm, 16: Pro FootbaU: NBC starts its schedule of regular season games with either Denver at Cincinnati or the Steelers at Oakland. 
12:30 PM, 22: Pro FootbaU: CBS kicks off the season with the Detroit Lions against the much-improved Chicago Bears in Chicago. 
Monday, September 13 
3:30 PM, 28: Dinah Shore: I don't get overly excited about Dinah Shore, but I think that the programs she's running through Thursday of this week deserve mention. Stepping out of her role as a straight talk-show hostess and all-around sweetie, Dinah will have as her guests on these four shows celebrities and prominent political figures who have all been at one time or another alcoholics. Some of her guests will be Shecky Greene, Doc Sever­ensen, Congressman Wilbur Mills and his wife, and actor Ralph Waite. 
8:00 PM, Monday Night FootbaU: The Miami Dofphins take on the Bills at Rich Stadium in Buffalo. 
6:30 PM, 22: Chitty Chitty Bang Bang: Dick Van Dyke Dyke, Sally Ann Howes and Ralph Nader in this musical about a flying car. 
Tuesday, September 14 7:30PM, 28: Charley's Angels: This show has a lot of potential. Their names are Farrah Fawcett Majors, Kate Jackson and Jaclyn Smith and they play three detectives or police women or something. That isn't really all that important. From the com­merci~ls I've seen it looks like they go around wailing on people. What a way to die. 
9:00 Pm, 16 Bob Dylan's Show: The poet laureate of modern music makes a rare TV appearence in this all-too-short one hour· special. 
9:00 PM, 22: CBS NEWS Special report: This documentary tells the story of the Israeli raid on Entebbe Airport and the rescue of the hostages from under the noses of Ugandan president Idi "Fatso" Amin. 
Wednesday and Thursday, aU times, aU channels: Nothing interesting. 
on the air 

WSND's Album Hour, Midnight Monday: Mark Wallace plays TurnstUes by Billy Joel. Tuesday: John Sparks plays FlrefaU by Firefall. (Get it? Sparks and Firefall?) Wednesday: Tom Gettings spins Wired with Jeff Beck. If it works Wednesday night their going to join the circus and spin_ wired together under the Big Top. Thursday: Rich Spellman plays Amigo by Arlo Guthrie. 

on the screen 

Boiler House 1: One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest Boiler House II: Hazel's People Starlite Drive-In: The Teacher and The Pom-Pom Girls Town & Country 1: Tunnel Vision Town & Country II: Gone With the Wind: David 0. Selznick's epic Civil War movie starring Viviam Leigh and Clark Gable. Scottsdale: The SaUor Who FeU from Grace with the Sea: A highly erotic and romantic film, this movie has received mixed reviews, Kris Kristofferson and Sarah Miles star. Forum 1: Harry and Walter Go To New­York: This movie isn't even getting mixed reviews; it's getting panned. Despite an exceptional cast (James Caan, Elliot Gould, Michael Caine and diane Keaton), Harry and Walter are just another one of those slick pairs of pals out to rip someone off, The formula should have died with The Sting and Harry and Walter should have stayed home. Forum II: Sllent Movie: Mel Brooks has done it again with this story of Director Mel Funn, a reformed alcoholic who needs a big success to reassume his place as a great Hollywood filmmaker. Hilarious gags, good performances by Dom Deluise and Marty Feldman, and clever cameos by Ann Bancroft, Burt Reynolds, and Liza Minelli make this film a lot of fun. 

on tap 

Vegetable Buddies Tl!e Piper Road Spring Band play friday and Saturday nights and blues harmonica player Billy Branch performs Wednesday. 
Reverend Robert Griffin 
sick--who need mv concern." 
"We could be them, Bob," she said. "We could be the winos and junkies living in the street. It could be us. Maybe it is us. Who am I to judge my brother? Maybe it is u~ already." 
"I'm talking about drunks who use the rectory doorway as a urinal," I said. "I have never used the rectory doorway as a urinal. I've never been temped to use church property as a toilet, unless it is intended to be a toilet" 
"Not yet," she said. I wanted to tell her not to be disgusting, but I'd met her for the first time that day. You can't tell people not to be disgusting on the first day you meet them. Anyway, I was angry because she had stolen the Malcolm Boyd line. I am used to taking the Malcolm Boyd line myself. 
She was wearing one of those POW-MIA bracelets. "Would you like to see what name I have engraved here?" she said, stretching her arm across the table. 
"It's too dark for me to read," I said. McBell's is like that. Candles flicker on the tables but you can't read by them. McBell's is small, half-lit Irish pub with a bar in front, tables in th-e back. On the walls there are old playbills, and the Declaration of Independence, in Gaelic, of the Republic of Ireland, and a front page, dated 1927, from the New York DaUy News with the headline: "Lindy Fifes Alone." You can get great corn beef and cabbage at McBell's, and unforgettable Irish soda bread, but it is not a place to go read. 
She told me the inscription on the bracelet: "MIA-POW ... Jesus Christ, 33 A.D." 
"We must be following different creeds,'' I said, thinking of the party line at Nicaea. "Just because they didn't find the body doesn't mean He's missing in action. You know where He is." 
"Don't you see, Bob," she said softly. "He was our first casualty. Someday we are going to get Him back again, and He'll gather the winos and the junkies and you and me into His Kingdom of love, and my dog Poochie and your dog Darby will be there together." 
"The winos and junkies, I accept," I said. "You and me, I hope for. But Darby and Poochie will have to shift for them­selves." 
"Why?" she said. "Isn't Darby a person?" 
"Actually," I said, "he's a cocker spaniel. That's all I've ever required him to be." 
"Oh, Bob," she said as though I didn't .hate the name, "look at how he loves you, and waits for you at night, and grieves when you don't come home." 
"Dogs are like that," I said, "Especially cocker spaniels, but there's no need to sentimentalize them into human beings." 
She then insisted that dogs are human, because of the human things they do, but I refused to argue the silliness. Finally, after three hours, our luncheon was over. She checked into the restroom while I paid the check. As I waited for the change, I noted a mean-looking little man about sixty, dressed as a sailor, looking at me from the end of the bar. His accent, when he spoke sounded British. "Are you a priest," he said. 
"I am a priest," I replied. 
"You should read D.H. Lawrence," he said. Somehow I got the impression that he thought he was insulting me. 
"I have read D.H. Lawrence," I said, "several times." 
"I'm from the North of Ireland," he said, "from Ulster." I felt sure I was supposed to recoil from his admission. 
""Possibly I'm descended from a long line of Ulstermen myself," I said. 
"Up Oliver Cromwell," he said, as though the words stood as a curse between us. 
I had some upping of my own I was tempted to suggest, but by this time, Alexander's dragtime girl had come back to the table. "Let's go," I said. As I reached the door to the street I realized she wasn't behind me. Then I saw she was at the bar saing goodbye to the North of Ireland. Why she was kissing him (except that he probably asked. her to as a harassment to the One, True Faith) I couldn't imagine. But she was kissing him, and she kept on kissing him, until Mr. McBell came rushing out of the kitchen and told them to break it up. I said to mysetf: "It has something to do with the meanest insect that crawls being part of God's own life. I must go home and read Chardin's essay on the Divine Energy." 
McBell's is not the most famous res­taurant in Greenwich Village, but people meet there to talk with ordinary honesty. There are no infallible sides of the table at McBell's, not even when a cleric dines there alone; no one diner has more or less grace than anyone elxe. If I share with you _ the table talk --faithfully reported and in no line imagined--from McBell's, it is not as a putdown to the anti-establishment types. We were that day both campus ministers, you see; but she was twenty-­five, and I am twice that age. For a little while, I knew how the Establishment feels. Being Established felt very good, and being old felt very wise, and not being Malcolm Boyd felt like being very im­patient with the practitioners and preach­ers of the sentimental Gospel. 
Sl Ia Jeunesse savaJt ••• 
Sl Ia vieillesse pouvaJt. 

magnificent meals in michiana 



the boar's head 

tim o'reiley 

There has got to be something, and usually a lot of things, right with a restaurant that is full on a Tuesday night. It is even more remarkable that such a place could be found amidst the quandry of fast food factories in Roseland. But if you pick carefully through the neon signs between the !urnpike and Howard Johnson's on 
U.S. 31, you can discover a dinner worth looking for at the Boar's Head. 
Long a favorite of Domers and their parents, its intimacy provides a pleasant relief from the stockyard atmosphere from the dining halls. A fireplace and partitions lined with wine bottles make the dining room appear smaller than it is, with a bar-lounge on one side (Happy Hour 4-6 pm on weekdays, 2 for the price of 1). The friendly service completes this aura of ease, so essential to fine dining. 
For openers, I sampled a cup of clam chowder, a hearty and tasty soup, though not quite in the class of the coastal chowders. The salad bar, however, was stocked with a bountiful vareity of temp­ting salads and dressings, almost enough to upstage the main course. Add a glass of sangria (Paul Masson) with a slice of lemon, and it becomes a challenge to the chefs to top the preliminaries. 
Fortunately for Muhammad Ali, they stayed out of boxing, since they met the challenge superbly. Fellow food critic Fred Herbst exuded nothing but praise about 
the "Innkeeper's Choice," a pallette­teasing ribsteak cooked over a charcoal grill (no microwaves here). Its tenderness matched that of Shakespeare's Romeo and JuUet, Herbst noted. An adequate but uninspiring portion of rice accompanied . the meat, hardly affecting the thorough 
enjoyment of the steak. 
Though poultry and fish entrees are 
included or. the menu, the Boar's Head 
calls itself a steak and spirits restaurant. 
To that end, I ordered the "Grand Duke's 
Strip," a thoroughly marvellous New York 
steak with baked potato. It was cut to the 
thickness of any great New YOrk, and 
cooked precisely to specifications, with 
succulent mushrooms to accompany it. A 
hefty loaf of warm bread afso coq1es with 
the dinner. 
Again, it must be emphasized how 
essential the good service was to this 
fabulous feast. The waiters and waitresses 
did not rush or drag the meal, but kept it 
progressing at the customer's pace. No 
wish was left unattended to. 
Dessert consisted of a small selection of 
cakes, pies, and ice cream, which we 
passed over in favor of a slow savoring of 
the sangria. Sated by the superb cuising, 
and sitting under the guise of a Rem­
brandt, there just didn't seem any need to 
rush back to campus and end a delightful 
evening at the Boar's Head. 

10 the observer Friday, Sept. 10, 1976 


Sondej seeks campus support against hunger 

by Kate Flynn ' Staff Reporter 
AI Sondej, two-year Hunger Coalition veteran, led an informal iiscussion in the Library Auditor­
urn Thursday evening to inaug­Irate his "Campus-A-Day" tour. 
The aim of the "Campus-A­)ay" project is to promote 1rganized campus concern with the ·ood and energy crisis through nitial work with various campus ninistries and continued support 
y student hunger groups. 
Sondej estimates a third of miversities across the nation have uch groups. According to the ~ational Students' Association :ood Action Center (NSA), Notre >arne and Yale lead the nation in 
•rganized action. Activities include lining hall fasting programs, re­earch development and possible urriculum changes. 

ND is Sondej 's first stop on the tour. He hopes that the Notre Dame students' response to Hun­ger Coalition projects will be an inspiring example to other univer­sities. 
"Notre Dame should start the ball rolling," he explained. "The primary purpose of collections is . not to get X amount of money, but 
to  let  students  experience  the  
greatest  joy  of  all,  the  act  of  
giving."  

This summer Sondej interned as a research assistant with the Over­seas Development Council (ODC), chaired by University president Fr. Theodore Hesburgh. 
The ODC plays what Sondej described as an educational role, informing the public, particularly governments, of food, energy and trade problems. The orgamzation sponsors numerous publications, conferences and surveys to call attention to the plight of the Third World. 
Since his internship with the ODC, Sondej has learned that the hunger problem is best confronted both economically and politically. 
According to Sondej, Notre Dame can respond in numerous ways, including "hold-the-jug" collections, mass correspondence drives and dining hall programs. 
A regular collection by Hunger Coalition members will begin Sun­day on Notre Dame and St. Mary's campuses. 
Sondej also suggested emphasiz­ing the immediate problem with a slogan: "A penny a day buys a bowl of porridge and your letter can do much more." 
As AI began his crusade two years ago, a penny bought three bowls of porridge. 
3etter storage service noted; but problems still ~bound 

by Mary Pat Tarpey 
Senior Staff Reporter 
The summer storage program rranged by the Notre Dame tudent Union was much improved ver last year, according to Walt ing, Student Union Associate tirector. However, some students ~main dissatisfied with this year's ervice. 
Ling reported th~:~t the Student inion was pleased with the out­Jme of the storage program which as handled by U.S. Van Lines of 1diana, a subsidiarv of Bekins rucking Company. "We've had a ~w complaints here and there but I ·as pretty happy. Compared to .st year it was 100 per cent 
~tter." 
A representative at Bekins aimed that she wasn't aware of a ·eat volume of complaints. She ided that she couldn't be sure of 1e amount of complaints because e claims haven't been processed 
~t. 
Student Complaints 
Certain students were not as eased. Brian Shoenrock stated, It's ridiculous. They've been ving me the run around for a eek." Brian went on to say, "It's Ld, they've stepped on so many 
~ople." 
Schoenrock lost a refrigerator in orage. He explained that he titially had checked Wednesday :ternoon at theAlumni Hall drop-off oint. The attendant told him to • Jme back the next day at which me he was sent to two other laces. He has, since that time, · tiled Bekins three times. Schoen­lCk said as of September 8, his roblem remained unresolved. 
Schoenrock has notified Notre arne's Legal Aid Society and ans to sue if he isn't reimbursed. 


Uhe l'PinOjammer 
CREATIVE HAIR DESIGN FOR THE SEXES 
RElAXING ATMOSPHERE 
FREE HAm ANALYSIS RK RETAIL CENTER 

~· li:.::~"t::. · 

''I'd just as soon sue them. I've got two hundred dollars into this already," he said. 
A senior in Farley received her couch without one of the cushions. "We checked some other places and we came back and asked the man what we should do," she stated. "He said to look and see if one around there looks the same size." 
A sophomore in Stanford picked up his chair with a leg damaged. Another student had a damaged bookcase and another is still mis­sing a couch. 
Junior Charlotte Peterson said that no one from the company was even there to take her receipts. "I just walked out there, found my couch and took it. There was no one there," she said. Genny Burke noted that there were many students who were satisfied with the service. Burke also added that the Student Union advised students not to store items of value last spring. 
Students offered carpet 

Other students reported ques­tionable behavior on the part of one Bekins employee. Three students from Alumni claim that an em­
ployee  on  the  truck behind their  
dorm  offered  to  sell  them  two  
carpets.  

Michael Treemarcki explained, "My roommate and myself went to get our stuff from storage. There were carpets in the back of the van. 
I don't think thay had names on them. Instead of putting them out where people could claim them, they kept them on the truck." Treemarcki added, "The man said, 'I got a deal for you. You give me two dollars and I'll give you two rugs.' " 
rugs.' " Treemarcki said he did not buy the rug. He later heard the man offer the carpets to two other students. 
When contacted in regards to the 
claim, a Bekins representative 
replied that her company was AL SONDEJ 
unaware of the situation. "This is..--------·------------------.. 
the first I've heard of this," she stated. 
Ling said Student Union plans to contact Bekins and investigate the charge as soon as possible. 
Bekins to send adjuster 
Services Commissioner Genny
Burke explained that Bekins will be sending over an insurance adjuster 
to take care of claims sometime 
~~~ Clolonial 

Jlancaltr -11u.at 
Featuring a complete menu. 
B kf t L . h & o· 



rea as ' unc tnner 
Your Host Bob Edwards N.D. '50 

next week. students will deal WE NEVER COMPROMISE WITH QUALITY
directly with Bekins. Burke also said that items be-U.S. 31 (Dixieway North in Roseland longing to Notre Dame students are A f H I'd 1
still in the warehouse. "They have .._~___c_ro_s_s_ro_m__ 0_•_a.;,y_n_n_______-= 
quite a few things, especially couches, carpets, bikes and bars," said Burke. These are items that students didn't pick up at the drop-off point or at Stepan Center. The Bekins warehouse is on the 19000 block of Auten street. 
The storage program is offered as a service to the Notre Dame's students. Ling commented, "We feel we have to provide storage. There's no place at all on campus to store anything." 
Previously Student Union pro­vided a storage service. Two years ago, Student Union decided to hire . an independent storage firm be­cause of the lack of space in the Field House and the lack of student labor. 
Bekins handled Notre Dame storage last summer. At that time there were many problems con­

cerning storage. However, ~::=====~~==::::iiiiiiiiiiiiiii!iiuiiii.!
problem was a result of the ~ 
(U

unexpectedly large volume of mat-
Ling explained that Student Un­ion chose Bekins again for two 
reasons. "After we checked with a lot of other companies Bekins could offer us the best deal. Also they were very willing to help us." 
~­
~~~~~' 

SMOKE STACK 100 CENTER MISHAWAKA 
SPECIALIZING IN QUALITY PIPES, TOBACCO & SMOKERS' ACCESSORIES IF YOU CRAVE FOR IMPORTED CIGARETTES, LOOK NO FARTHER ROTHMAN, DONH ILL EXPORTS AVAILABLE. 
15% DISCOUNT ON ALL PIPES , .. WITH ND-SMC ID., , . 
._ l·~·~,L ...._.. ~~~t: ?~~:-... ·~~ ~j 
GOOD FOOR AT MODEST PRICES! Steaks • Chops . Fiied Chicken . Sea Food Closest Chinese Carry-Out to Campus 


Take Home Sevice • 232-5841 
OPEN DAILY 
11:00 a.m. 'til 9 p.m. SUNDAY 
11:30 a.m. 'til 9 p.m. 
br·
1S 'giJt




nt. . lJI ~ 

MEN'S HAIRSTYLING 
lEW COICEPT ia hliratylin& fer 111H 
t 
LOCATED 011 Hr lower ltYII wilh lb· ewn Jrtw•ll ••tr~~~e~ w•r HAIRCUT. 
$5 00
COMPUTE PIIYICY ill ow indiYWul ' IIJiil& uaitl BLOW STYLING-$4.5 SIP COFFEE ltr the fireplece il • \ H 
I 
reluetlabnosphere AIRCUT AND FIST SERYICE for carefree cuts BLOW STYLING and blow strles COM INATION • $8 50 

WE FEATURE RK products I '1 
PERMANENT WAVING by NATURAL MAN
<ftueen '~ /~.~~-·.·. 

(![astle 
54533 TERRACE LANE 
• 
, .r... ~~ s.t. 1:30-$:30 
· n.ra., fri. 1:30-1:30 
PHONE 277-1691 


~--------------~~~~~~~~------­




Mary Lou Bilek, SMC student body president, was present at the inaugural board meeting. [photo by Jim Hofman.] 
Observer establishes first St. Mary's bureau 
The Observer Editorial Board met last night in the new SMC bureau. [photo by Jim Hofman.] 
milestone for tne relationship of the by Marti Hogan SMC-ND community in general," St. Mary's Editor O'Neil commented. Ideally, St. Mary's students will be able to do 
St. Mary's bureau of the . more reporting with the facility Observer officially opened last located on their campus, he indi­night serving as the site of the first cated. 
· Observer editorial board meeting St. Mary's Student Government of the 1976-77 school year. has also acted on an Observer 
This year St. Mary's responded request to make the $3 Observer to a frequent Observer request for fee mandatory for, all students. office space on St. Mary's campus. "It's always been an act of faith on The office is located in room 8, the part of St. Mary's," O'Neil Regina South, a former wood bin. explained. "But it came to the 
"So far we've spent $600 on point where I thought St. Mary's facilities for this office," said Tom students should contribute as Notre O'Neil, editor-in-chief. St. Mary's Dame students have been doing all supplied the furniture for the office along." while the Observer paid for the In return, St. Mary's Student construction of the room. This Government has put some requests construction included carpeting, a to the Observer, including telephone, a suspended ceiling and increased St. Mary's coverage, a other necessary equipment. St. Mary's advisor to the advisory 
"The St. Mary's bureau is a board and an additional St. Mary's 
'Career orientation' to be presented 
Dame caree11 program begins on Staff Reporter by Beth Welch 
Tuesday, and we want the seniors to know what companies to direct 
Saint Mary's Career Develop­their attention to," explained Cal­ment Center will present a senior lahan. "At Sunday's meeting we career orientation program this · will organize the first set of Sunday at 7:30 p.m. in Stapleton sign-ups in the program." 
' Lounge, according to Cindy Calla­"I'd like to see as many seniors han, SMC Senior Class President. 
as can take advantage of Sunday's The program has been jointly program and future career develop­organized by the SMC senior class ment plans because it's a good way 
and the director of the SMC Career 
to prepare for interviews and a Development Center, Karen good way to become familiar with O'Neil. . the Career Development Office," 
"It is the first of this semester's said Callahan. "Participation with CDC programs planned specifically the CDC will be a good way to for seniors," said Callahan, "We 
settle in the seniors' minds the hope to explain the uses and panic of what to do next year. The purposes of the CDC as well as Center provides a positive way to inform the SMC seniors of the take action in what they're con­
cooperative recruiting program this cerned about." 
year with Notre Dame." Callahan also added, "Students O'Neil and the CDC staff will are always welcome to drop in at explain what services the Career the Career Development Center if 
Development Center provides to­they can't attend the meeting, or wards helping students review 
see Ms. O'Neil personally." 
career alternatives. "Ms. O'Neil will answer questions about on­campus interviewing, graduate du Lac pick-ups 
record exams, and registration Off-campus students may pickcredentials," explained Callahan. 
up a copy of the 1976-77 du Lac"The CDC will advise students student guide at the Student Gov­about such things as the recruiting ernment Office in the LaFortune •program here at Saint Mary's, how Student Center, today from 9 a.m. 
to fill out a resume, and how to to 5 p.m. _ prepare for an interview." 
Other services of the CDC include guidance in nursing and education placement, information Debators desired about graduate school applications, 
All those interested in represent­and suggestions about preparation ing the University at speech andfor LSATs. The CDC also has a 
debate tournaments this year
library of information on corpora­tions and businesses with career 
should contact Phil Burksaze or Ed possibilities. Caldwell at LaFortune Student "The SMC program is scheduled Center on Activities Night, Sept. ' for this Sunday because the Notre 13. 
representative  to  the  editorial  was vetoed by an 8-5 vote. "We do  year," O'Neil assured.  
board.  not  have  a  qualified  St.  Mary's  "Dr.  Rice,  Dr.  Duggan  and  
Tom Williams, national editor for  staff member at this time," O'Neil  Stevie Wernig have been extremely  
the South Bend Tribune and jour­ explained.  cooperative  with  our  efforts,''  
nalism professor at St. Mary's, has  Mary  Lou  Bilek,  St.  Mary's  O'Neil  commented,  saying  it  
been  appointed  to, the  Observer  student body president,  was  also  should continue to be a reciprocal  
advisory  board.  O'Neil  also  be­ present at the board meeting. Bilek  relationship.  
lieves that "St.  Mary's coverage  indicated that she understood the  The  Observer  is  now  actively  
has increased substantially."  board's  decision  not  to appoint  seeking students for the St. Mary's  
The  request  for  another  St.  someone simply to fill the position.  staff. If you are interested, call the  
Mary's representative to the edi­ "We  expect  to  add  another  St.  St.  Mary's  bureau,  5365,  Marti  
torial board was put to the board at  Mary's representative to· the edi­ Hogan, 4687, or Debbie Dahrling.  
the meeting last night. However, it  torial  board  during  this  school  4291.  

Classifieaf\as 
Notices 

Will trade 2 Purdue tickets tor 2 
Willing to swap 2 Pitt tix tor 2

Oregon tickets. Call Jim 8794.
Plitt Discount movie tickets tor Alabama or Purdue fix. Call collect Scottsdale, Town & Country, and (314) 227-8673, ask tor Jim. State and Riverpark theaters are 
Desperately need Two Purdue tix ­available at Student Union Ticket 
Call Russ at 8764. Office from 12 :00 -4 :00, Monday For Sale thru Friday. 
Mr. Leo C. Hansen is hereby announcing he is seeking a Purdue 
Purdue game . 5 tix, 40 yard line. Final copies of the 1976 Mock Call 233-2882.
ticket. lnquire 1650. Convention Platform are available to any interested student at the Stu­Desperately need 1 Pitt & Purdue 1972 VW Campmobile. Pop-up top-
dent Gov't. offices on 2nd floor ticket. Please call JoAnn -5489. 2 spare tires, bargain. Call -Lafortune. Ask the secretary tor a 234-1592. copy. 
Desperately need 1 Pitt fix. Will pay top$. Charlie, 6813. 
Mexican Belts: leather, leather1/aMorrissey Loan Fund $20 -$150, 1 suede with wooden or leather buck­day wait. 1 percent interest due in Desperately need 2 tickets to Pitt les. All sizes only $10.00. Cally30 days. Lafortune Basement, M-F, game. Call Joe 283-1007. "Big Money Murt" anytime. 11:15. 12:15. 234-8858.
1 or 2 Pitt tickets. Call Sue or Teri. 1880. 
Plants for sale. Reasonable. prices.

SK 1 ASPEN Xmas break. Low low 920 Notre Dame. 232-5164. 
group rates. More into, call in Desperately ned oneGA Pitt ticket. afternoons 2-4. John 288-2613. Contact Chuck 1376. 
For Sale. 1973 Chevy Van, interior finished. $2,000.00. Call inBEER, BEER, BEER For the best Desperately need 4 G.A. Pitt tickets. 

afternoon 2-4. 288-2613.

buys on kegs and cases Call Chip At least two together. Money is no 288-7878. object. Call Dick 1657 or 233-1115. 
:reac Cassette Deck, $315 or make Will tea.ch flute in your spare time. General Admission tix needed tor otter. Loft, 580. 1689. Call Beth -8112 tor more into. Pitt game: call 6153. 
For sale: 2 GA Pitt tickets, will take Accurate, Fast Typing. Mrs. Dono­Needed: 5 G.A. Tix for Purdue. best otter. Call 4-4006. ho 232-0746. Call Tim 1802. 
wanna sit with the Wildcats? Give Babysitter Mon . Fri 9:00 . 1 :30. 'em a liHie Irish grief? Sit on the For Rent 233-8822. Northwestern side Sept. 25 and pass 
a few up, tor tickets, call Mary 311 North Cushing -Ready now$ 3 Need one Pitt ticket. Call Mary 8125. . bedroom furnished house in excel­1280. lent condition. Call 234-6688. Used books and paperbacks. Large 
Tickets Desperately needed!! Any stock of general reading material 4 Bedroom house for rent in NO and all games S$ student and and o.p. books. Bring this ad & area.' $350 plus deposit. Call Jim general admission. Call John in receive one tree paperback with any Zimmer, (616) 445-2471, 7a.m. -afternoon, 2-4 288-2613. $1.00 purchase. The Bookstack, 112 4:30p.m. W. Lexington, Elkhart. 293-3815. 
Desperately need 4 Pitt tickets. Call 35 min. via U.S. 20 to downtown Roomate needed own room. 62.50 Colleen 4-5170. Elkhart. mo. plus utilities.. 702 Howard St. No phone yet so come by. Robert. Desparately need one Pitt ticket for 
favorite Hoosier farm girl. Call Personals
Tom, 8684. Lost & Found 
For Sale: Sony 7015 Stero receiver

Needed! Football tickets to any 
15 waNs per channel. 6 wks. old.

Lost -Kubiak's 8'.-81 -t Cross pen, N.D. Home Games. Call 6616, Ask S170 new. Sell S115. Call Davegreat personal value -Reward, Call il tor Mark. 
283-8810.

Pat 683-0956. Need 1 Pitt ticket, desparately. Call 
WELCOME BACK LEMON BA­

$25!!! To the lucky finder of a clear Mark at 1079. 
BIES!!! Can't beleive you're sen­

framed pair of glasses, lost in the iors! Ready for anothe year ofvicinity of the bars. Thomas Babysitter needed for 1, 2 or 3 tuff studying? Well, at least you'll beW larath 5-76, is imprinted on frame. days per week; in our home; must able to go the Senior Bar --after allIf found call immediately -my eyes have own transportation. S 1.50 per those long dry years of waiting. Andre going bad!!! Tom 288-0088. hour. Phone 283-6619 or 288-9892. 
the cow jumped over the moon. J. & 
J. in CA.

Brown wallet containing student 10, Need 2 GA tickets for Oregon. Will Maryland driver's license lost at pay SSS. Call Steve 3185. 
Yo there, The above ad was placedSMC. Reward offered for return. 

by Dlugolecki, fellas. VRT.

Call Lou (259 Alumni, 1154). Must have 2 Purdue tix for (tuition paying) parents. Please help! 3540. Male Kitten -8 weeks old. Needs Wanted Need 1 Pitt ticket. Call Jim at good home. Call 234-9189. 
277-0067. Refriderator, regulation room size. Hey F.A.! The Harvard boy has a To buy or rent 85115. Desparately need 1 Pitt fix, GA or birthday! Love, G. R. 
student. Call Mark at 8330. Needed many GA tix's tor any home WELCOME BACK BEYALL AND game. Call 4168 . SMC. In dire need of 2 Oregon tix -Call 
STEINYI1 --MELDon at 8183. 




RICHARD NIXON 
Nixon gives eulogy about life of Mao 
SAN CLEMENTE, Calif. (AP) -standing not only of the problems Mao Tse-tung was a unique leader of his own people, but of the who had a profound understanding objective realities of the world of his own people and of the need situation. The new relationship for China and the United States to· which we established then was a 
communicate, former President tribue to this farsighted vision on Richard M. Nixon says. his part. 
Nixon, the last American known "He reaffirmed that vision in my to have met with Mao, visited him last meeting with him on Feb. 23 of in China earlier this year as a this year. I am confident that 
private citizen. whoever succeeds Chairman Mao 
In 1972, Nixon was the first will continue to work toward the American president to visit Mao's goal of improving relations China, breaking through a diplo­between the People's Republic of matic barrier of nonrecognition that China and the United States of the United States had maintained America and helping to build a since the country's Communist structure of peace for the Pacific revolution after World War II. and the world. 
Mao died Thursday of an undis­"Mao Tse-tung was a unique closed illness. man in a generation of great 
In a statement issued from his revolutionary leaders. He was a >easide estate here, Nixon said, totally dedicated and pragmatic ''Chairman Mao Tse-tung's long Communist, but he was also a march through life has now ended visionary poet deeply steeped in with his death at the age of 82. He the history of the Chinese people. was a man of immense physical "Some years ago he wrote a courage and ideological deterrnina­poem that began: 'We had much to tion, who worked up until his last do and quickly. The sky-earth spins days. and time is short. Ten thousand 
"As leaders who represented years is long, and so a morning and totally different philosophies and evening count.' views, we both recognized when we ''Historians will assess his met in Peking in 1972 that Chinese­career and his impact on the American friendship had become Chinese people and the world. indispensible to the interests of There can be no doubt that he both our nations. made his morning and evening 
Nixon lauded Mao as a leader of count in working for the vision he China, saying, "I was particularly saw and for the principles in which impressed by his profound under-he so strongly believed.': 
Billing cards mailed late 
by Barb Langhenry Senior StaH Reporter 

fhose students who have not received their student billing cards should receive them today, accord­ing to Virginia Hahn, commercial manager for Indiana Bell Tele­ohone Co. ' Hahn stated that the first group )f student billing cards was sup­Josedly mailed before school start­~d and due to reach the students Nhen they arrived at Notre Dame. 
At registration a number of students complained that they had not received their billing cards and 
'student contact started hitting late Monday, Sept. 5," she con­tinued. 
Indiana Bell then contacted the Notre Dame Post Office and the South Bend Post Office in an attempt to trace down the lost ~roup of cards. H~hn stated that :hey have wol'ked looking for the ~o.rds every day since Monday. 
"Early this morning (yesterday), .ve found that it was a human error md this first grbup had never been mt through the U.S. Mail," Hahn 
~xplained. 
The cards were then sent to the 

'fo~re .P.aP!~ -~"i't ·.Qffice-.aad .th~· ,' "Cerrter.•••.• ': ••• post office will distribute them to the halls as regular mail today. 
"We regret the inconvenience and thank the students for their help in notifying us," Hahn stated. 
Block party after f-ball game this Saturday 
by Missy Hanneber StaH Reporter 

A post-game block party spon­sored by the Student Union Social Committee will be held this Satur­day night at the Stepan center basketball courts. 
The festivities begin at 8:30 p.m. with a fireworks display, followed by a dane at 9 p.m. featuring Fawn, a rock group from Chicago. Fawn also entertained Notre Dame crowds last year at the Armory Dance and Bicentennial Ball. 
All ND-SMC students are invited to attend free of charge, and complimentary soft drinks will be available. In case of rain, the party will· be moved indoors ~o Stepan 




SMC revises R.A. program 
by Denisa Lynk StaH Reporter 

The Resident Advisor Program at St. Mary's has undergone a gradual period of revision during the past two years, according to Gail Ritchie, Assistant Director of Counseling at St. Mary's. The R.A. Program is headed by Ritchie and 
Dr.  Suzanne  Areson,  Director of  
Counseling.  
The  basic  difference  between  

this year's R.A. program and those· in past years is the format, Ritchie explained. This year the R.A. 's are required to take a two-credit, two-semester psychology which was optional in previous years. 
"There are fifteen veteran trained R.A.s," stated Ritchie. They are Seniors who were R.A.s last year and have already taken the psychology course. The class for the new R.A.s is too large, Ritchie said, so they have been divided into six groups of six and seven R.A.s each. "Each group is co-led by one staff professional and one trained veteran R.A.," she added. 
Another change in the format is the teaching of "theory and prac­tice" together, rather than separ­ately. "At each class period there is a lecture demonstration of spe­cific skills to the entire groups, and then each R.A. practices the skill in her individual discussion group, where she can receive individual feedback," Ritchie explained. 
According to Dr. Kathleen Rice, 
~t. Mary's Dean of Students, the ···········•4SAVE••••••••
1dea to Improve the R.A. program .. •• . --,r,,. 
and also to hire an extra counselor 8 
was former St. Mary's Vice-8 President of Student Affairs, Dr. 8 Mary Alice Cannon's. Rice also stated that at the end of the year. 
"the counselors are going to eval-• . uate ~he entire course and R.A. • .
experience." Ritchie added that the R.A.s will • 
also have to evaluate the~~elves at •••••••••••••••••••••••• 
the end of the year, and 1t IS hopedthe students in their sections will .~XM:::IOI:::IOI:IOaoccccocaoc:~:ao:aor,:,or,:,occcciOC~:aQ:IOI.X'OOOCOC• 
tell the R.A.s what they think of the job they have done. 
The professional group leaders in the R.A. program are. Dr. Suzanne Areson, who is also co­lecturer in the course; Mary Laverty, hall director of Regina Hall; Mary Fran Burt, hall director of LeMans Hall; Diane Benjamins, hall director of McCandless Hall, and Les Malkiewich, a third year doctoral student at Notre Dame and also a part-time counselor in the St. Mary's counseling center. 
"We are fortunate that the 4ll~~lliilll'llwii'IIW~--~IPifl~.,._~~.,y~~~~,._~~~~~~~~~W'IIWI~!I.
people assisting Dr. Areson and myself hold Masters degrees in College Personnel and Counsel­ing," Ritchie noted. 
Both Ritchie and Rice have hopes that the R.A. program will be a successful one this year. They feel that in some instances a student can offer more help to a student than a member of the faculty can because she is closer to the situation. "I view the R.A. as a person to go to," stated Ritchie, and also as a "strong advocate of 
Like agoodneighbor, State Farm 
is there. 
with help for your car, home, life and health insurance. 
See me. 
800 E. Jefferson South Bend, Indiana 46617 
Bus. Phone: 288-4718 

STATE FARM 

Res. Phone: 
INSURANCE 
234-5380 

STATE FARM 
lnsuran~.e .Cor:npanie.s,. 
· HomeOftice·s: BloomfngtoM, Illinois 
Voter's Registration 
Mon., Tues., & Wed. North & ~outh Dining Halls Register in Indiana and have a voice 
in the issues affecting you! 

community rights.'' Ritchie stated that there is a 
Rice said that she was impressed national trend across the country with this year's R.A.s and that they for the expanding of the role of the are a "highly responsible group of R.A. She is hopeful that the St. people. "I'm very proud of them," Mary's community will realize this. she added, "and of the way they "I have developed respect for my handled themselves in the bit of a staff," stated Ritchie. "I really feel raid that we experienced W ednes­we can have a strong program this day night." year.'' 
Soviet spy-in-sky rocket falls to earth in Monta'na 
WASHINGTON (AP) -A large rocket section from a Soviet satel­lite came down in Montana earlier this week, Pentagon sources re­port. 
The rocket body from the Soviet Cosmos 54 has not yet been recovered by U.S. officials who say it was tracked by radar. 
Sources said the descending rocket body probably looked to spectators like a flaming comet as it passed over Washington state, Idaho and finally fell in Montana south of the Canadian border. 
According to military sources, debris from Soviet space vehicles drops on the United States from time to time but usually in small pieces. The rocket section from Cosmos 854 apparently was larger than most that have fallen onto 
U.S. soil. 
There is some question as to how much could be learned from study­ing the rocket section because it 
ACTIVITIES NIGHT 
All club leaders who missed 
meeting on Monday; MUST call Jodie 1333 today if they wish to participate in 


Activities night 

MILANO'S WELCOMES BACK ND-SMC STUDENT 10% discount on all pizzas this 
Fri., Sat., & Sun. Sept 1 0,11 &12 

WE DELIVER 

256 -1853 815 W. McKinley 
-·;·•\i,, 
· 
MAKE 
W • ITH COUPON • 
3 GAMES • 
FOR PRICEOFONE-EXP10-3-76 8 306 W McKinley, Mishawaka 259-4171 • 2 blocks E ofT & C Sh · C t 
. oppmg n . • NEW FRIENDS PLAYING PUTT-PUTT • 
burned as it came down through the atmosphere. 
The Soviet Union generally de­scribes Cosmos satellites as scien­tific vehiCles. ·But U.S. intelligence officials say many of the Cosmos satellites are reconnaissance vehicles equipped with sensitive cameras, infrared sensors and other electronic devices. 
Cosmos spy satellites normally 
remain  aloft  for  about  12  days  
before  the  Russians  bring  them  
back down to earth.  

The United States also maintains secret spy satellites in orbit over Russia, mainland China and other areas of interest. 
But the United States uses a different method of recovering photo capsules. They are plucked out of the air by specially equipped planes permitting the satellites to remain in orbit longer. 
TONY'S SHOE SHOP 
QUICK SERVICE& 
REASONABLE PRICES HYWASTETIME& MONEY IN TOWN. 
BEHIND BADIN HALL REPAIRS ALL TYPES OFLEATHERGOODS& SELLS ALL STYLES OF SHOES & BOOTS 


----~--­
by Paul Stevenson 

Rick Slager will be assuming the controls at quarterback tomorrow, when the Irish gridders debut against the Pittsburgh Panthers. 
The 1976 season finds Slager returning to the confines of Notre Dame for his fifth year. He has gained another year of eligibility this season, due to a shoulder separation suffered in the spring of his freshman year, preventing him from logging any playing time as a sophomore. 
Last season, the studentbody may not have been fully behind Slager, the man the coaches designated as the number one quarterback for the majority of the season. 
"It would be nice to know that the students are 
behind you, but that's not what's important," 
Slager commented. "The important thing is that 
you're playing for the team and the school, and 
when you're in the game you just try to do the best 
you possibly can." 
Many Irish football fans wanted to see Joe 
Montana as the Irish signal-caller. 
"It's great knowing someone as competent as Joe (Montana) is behind you," Slager mentioned. "The quarterback's responsibility is to move the team and score. H one of us was not doing the job, the other would take over and try to spark the offense." 
The weekly dilemma of who was going to be the starting quarterback for the upcoming game was not the only question facing the Irish last season. The rapport between coaches and players was also questioned. 
"Adjusting to a new system is very difficult," Slager recalled. "I experienced the same thing in high school, changing football coaches during my ' junior year. Although the plays may be the same, the terminology is different, something which takes time to learn 1' 
A major transition that Slager has undergone in · the past year is that from bachelorhood to marriage. "I believe marrying my wife, Kris, in January helped my performance during the spring ses­sions,'' Slager noted. 
"Not having to worry, as I did in the past, if I'd be able to see her over the weekenQ., enabled me to A rejuvenated Rick Slager must take control of the offense if the Irish are to start the season on a winning note. 

This Week 
in the NFL 
Sund1y's games 
Detroit 11< CHICAGO, 1 p.m.Baltimore 11 New England, noon. Denver 1t Cintiftnatt, noon. Los Angeles 11 Atlanta, noon. Minnesota at New Orleans, 1 p.m.
N.Y. 
Giants et Washington, noon. 

N.Y. 
Jets at Cleveland, noon. PhiladelPhia at Dallas, 1 p.m.St. Louis at Seattle, 3 p.m.San Diego 11 K1nsas City, 1 p.m. San Francisco at Grffn Bay, 1 p.m.T1mpa Bay at Houston, 1 p.,m. Pittsburgh at Oakland, 3 p.m. 


Mondav's gameMiami at Buffalo, I p.m. 


HUNGRY? n~ need to go far LOUIES EVERY NIGHT KITCHEN OPEN TILL 3:AM  
The J-BOARD NEEDS YOU!! For info and applications see the Student Government secretary today!  

OFF CAMPUS FOOTBALL FINAL SIGNUP DATE SEPT. tO THAT'S TODAY! CALL 283-7668 or SIGN UP IN STUDENT GOV'T -0 FFICE......... . 
NEW 
RELEASES 










SALE 

FROM $4.25 Large Jazz & Cut-out Selections 
. The Record Joint 

Belle Plaza 1038 NOes, Mich. 1 mDe1 N. of Shula's 
G83·55a , • 

relax more and perform better,''' he remarked. 
Although taking the plunge into married life may be relaxing, not having the services of the inj ued Joe Montana will stress the importance of Slager's performance. 
"It's nice to have a guy with experience behind you, so that if you're not performing well, he might add the necessary drive to the team," Slager stated. 
"There are so many talented and qualified players· that could fill any position, it's just a matter of experience. I think it hurt me last year having only 18 minutes of previous experience before the season," he said. "Experience is the best teacher, and that's why I'm looking forward to this season, being more confident having had that experience." 
Last year was a period of transition for the Irish, a chance to gain experience. "The first year is always tough, on both the players and the coaches," Slager acknowledged. · 
"Once that transition year is past and everyone has 'become accustomed to the :;ystem and gained confidence, it's easier to build. I think that after losing three games last season there's even a greater confidence and desire in the teat 1 for winning," he noted. 
A major question this season will l'e the productiveness of the offense. A defense may be stalwart, but if forced to participate in a majority of the game due to a sputtering offense, it too will eventually slow down. 
"Material-wise, our offense has great person­nel,"Slager remarked. "They're all great guys with a tremendous amount of talent. The line is big and our whole starting backfield is returning, so I think the offense will be more of a contributing factor this season." 
Performing like a well-oiled machine is something that the offense will gain after some valuable playing time together. Each player knows what facets of his game need improvement. 
"I've been working on fakes and spending two hours a day throwing all summer, something which I felt needed improvement and which has improved due to this practice,'' Slager commented. 
Rick Slager and the remaining Irish gridders have had a year to adjust to the system and gain their experience, changes which hopefully will haVt~ been made by tomorrow's kick-off. 

-------~---~-------~~----~------­
'/love this environment': Devine 
by Chip Scanlon 
"You only go through life once 
and Notre Dame is the best stop so 
you might as well take it," express­
ed Irish head coach Dan Devine 
when asked what motivated him to 
take over for Ara Parseghian two 
years ago. 
At other stops along Devine's life 
he has been able to accomplish 
such achievements as a 27-3-0 
record at Arizona State, become 
the second winningest coach in 

Mis~ouri history, be named NFC 
··coach of the Year" as well as Pro 
Football News "Man ofthe Year." 
But when Devine takes the field as 
the head coach of the famed 
Fighting Irish , the lust that ND 
fans have for winning overpowers 
these accomplishments .. 
Devine entered coaching be­cause like many he enjoyed athle­tics during his post-service colleg­iate career. After directing a hockey team at Minnesota-Duluth Devine entered the football world at East Jordan High School. From there his talents led him to Arizona State where in his third year his squad was undefeated. "In 1956 I almost left Arizona State and then in 1957 we were undefeated and nationally ranked for the ' first time," confesses Devine. 
But even an undefeated season couldn't keep Devine at Arizona State; even to his own amazement. "My move to Missouri was kind of a surprise to me," recalls Devine. But it must have been a successful one for in the next 13 years Devine coached the Tigers to a 93-37-7 record including four bowl game victories. 
•'The Big 8 was just starting to be a strong conference when I took over at Missouri and we had a history of playing the tough te­ams," recounts Devine. "I made the present schedules at Mis­souri," Devine said and the fact that the Tiger's schedule will have them opening up with perennial power USCas one of their non-con­ference games points to Devine's affinity to "play the best teams," asituation he finds himself already surrounded with at Notre Dame. 
Then after the 1970 season Devine decided to make another change and this one led him to the pro ranks and the Green Bay Packers. Through his four year's.in the pro ranks Devine compiled a 25-27-4 record and Jed the Packers to an NFC Central Division champ­ionship. 

"By 1974 I had made up my mind that I was going to leave Green Bay," states Devine, "and I knew that Notre Dame was a fantastic opportunity." So when Ara Parseghian decided to leave Notre Dame for health reasons Dan Devine became the 23rd Irish mentor. 
Although knowing very little about the personnel, Devine accep­ted all the rigors that go with coaching at Notre Dame, a pres­sure that can only be appreciated after experiencing it. Along with that unknown, Devine inherited a group of players who were used to playing for a different coach. 
"I inherited one of the best captains I've ever had in Ed Bauer," acclaims Devine. With other candidates such as all-pro Andy Russell, JohnnyRQland, Ray Nitzscke and Bart Starr this is quite a compliment for Ed Bauer. 
Using Bauer's and Jim Stock's leadership abilities and the exam­ple set by the "courageous Steve Quehl" as Devine states, the pattern was set for what Devine wanted and expected. 
"I expect a Notre Dame man to act like a Notre Dame man both on and off the field," commands Devine. "This means he should conduct himself like a gentleman off the field and a football player who never quits on the field.'' And that never quitting attitude was forever present on the field for the Irish in the 1975 season. 
Despite an 8-3 season, a season with three more losses than any true Notre Dame fan wants, the team was in every ballgame to the end, rallying against Air Force and North Carolina for two of the most spectacular comebacks of the col­lege season. Enduring rumors and criticism during last season, De­vine dismissed this pressure as the"so-called pressure that exists at Notre Dame, as well as any other school." 
And though the environment seemed hostile at times for the head coach, Devine continues to be grateful to the many friends he has in the Notre Dame family. 
"I love this environment, I'm 52 years oldand am looking forward to the Pitt pep rally as much as anyone on campus," confesses Devine. "The support I've received here is tremendous and I'm sure it will continue this year." And because ofthis support Devine has a tone of confidence that was sometimes lacking in his first year at the helm of the Irish. 

"I know many ofthe players on a much closer basis and I have seen the way the school functions," relates Devine and this will no doubt make decisions easier for the second year taskmaster. 
Another insight which Devine attributes his ease with is that "in the last ten years players have changed and even though they are still as dedicated and talented they've changed along with social changes. Because they do their own thing off the field it is sometimes hard for oldtimers like me to recognize that change is not for 'the worse. I'm still as demanding but maybe I do it in a little different way.'' 
Whatever the way, the note of confidence in Devine's voice ex­tends to his hopes for his squad for the upcoming season. "We have a few new wrinkles on offense and defense and will try to operate more efficiently," notes Devine. "I'm really pleased with the devel­opment of the younger players and the continued development of the older players. With this team we'll be able to do more finesse things." 

The road ahead for Devine is not an easy one, butneitherwas the one he traveled last season. Last year six Irish opponents posted winning records, a schedule that Parsegh­ian teams never had to play in Ara's 11 years. Pittsburgh starts off the Irish season this year coming off their finest season since 1963. Prior to 1973 the Panthers manage"d only 23 wins in nine seasons , a stat that this year's coaching staff won't be able to enjoy. 
Whatever the case,Dan Devine looks with optimism to the 1976 Irish campaign. The pressure to win will still be there when he resumes his coaching duties ag­ainst Pitt, but a new confidence can be observed in this season's out­look. 
"Before we start the season I want to say one thing,'' quipped Devine at the first fall meeting for football, "If we get invited to a bowl game this year ... we're going. 
*ObServer 
Sports 

Tony Dorsett: an Irish nightmare 
by Ray O'Brien 

Notre Dame figured their troubles with a one man nemesis were over in 1974 when a superstar runningback nicknamed "A.D." graduated to the professional football ranks. But then came along another runningback prophetically named "T.D." Tony Dorsett has made the Irish's past troubles look diminutive. 
Dorsett already possesses three marks in the Notre Dame record books. His single game rushing total of 303 yards (breaking his previous total of 209 yards) which he set last year will most likely never be topped. With one more performance to come Dorsett has the most rushing attempts in a career (74) and most net yards gained rushing in a career (573) against the Irish. This breaks down to nearly seven and a half yards per carry. These marks may also never be erased. 
The 5-11, 192 pound halfback has been an All-American since he was a freshman. Dorsett has figured in the Heisman ballotting each of his three years. Two of those three years he outrushed the Heisman Trophy winner (1973-1975). This year, barring injury or other uncontrollable catastrophes, he should capture that prestigious award that has alluded him in the past. 
The Heisman Trophy is just one of several awards Dorsett f:!Ould earn this year. He needs only an average of 94 yards per game this season to become the all-time leading rusher in NCAA major college history (passing Archie Griffin's total of 5,177 yards). This would mean his average could drop over 40 yards per game from last year's mark of 140.3 yards per game. 
Dorsett needs only two more 200 yard games to hold the career NCAA mark for 200 yard games. He is thecountry'sleading returning scorer with 222 points. Ifthe Panther star can notch that fourth 1,000 yard season, it will be first in NCAA history. Along with these national marks Dorsett owns seven Pittsburgh rushing records. 
Dorsett possesses power, speed, and most important of all, great judgement. Last year he embarrassed a Notre Dame defensive line that boasted one of the top linemen in the country. This year Joe Yonto and Dan Devine will have to come up with a plan to keep this one man attack from turning the corners where he becomes impossible to stop. Regardless of his performance in Saturday's game, Dorsett is truly a 
'~~~~e,~~ .r~~n.e.r if not ~~e best college runner. . . ,,/ 


.. 

Mclane and Fry captain 1976 Irish 
football than just Saturday afterno­by Tom Powanda on and as captain the athlete's 
responsibilities do not remain at 
To play on a Notre Dame football the field or in the locker room. team is an honor itself but to McLane describes the honor as a captain such a team is a true sign of type of ego boost because the an athlete's physical ability and captains are elected by the memb­leadership qualities. In 1976 this . ers of the team. It shows token of esteem has been given to tremendous respect for the indivi­Mark McLane and Wiilie Fry. dual by his peers. It is truly a 
What does it mean to be a leader demanding role for any person. of a team with such a winning This year's captains however exce­tradition? It places trememdous ed not only the category of ability pressure on the individual who but also in their leadership qualiti-

must now not only carry out his es. 
duties as a member of the team but McLane attended Salesianum Hi­he must also act as a liaison gh School in Wilmington, Delawa­between the players and the coach­re. It was there that his dream to es. · There is more to college play football at the University of 
St. Mary's
and Irish football 
Debbie Dahrling and Theresa Richeson 
When in the course of human events it become necessary to expound on the merits and athletic prowess of the Notre Dame football team, let us stop .. .lest we forget the tears and the cheers and the endless support of the women of St. Mary's. For where would you be without our ringing soprano voices to "wake up the echoes, cheering her name?" And wouldn't something be lost without the colorful and artistic banners we wave proudly proclaiming to every corner of the nation "The Irish are Devine! (Hi, Mom1?1' 
St. Mary's is allotted 1500 tickets to the Notre Dame home games each year. Throughout the season, dorm walls are covered with signs by students frantically searching for any extra tickets. And whereas Notre Dame student ticket costs are covered in their tuition, St. Mary's students pay a general admission price of $6 per game. 
The only difference between ourselves and the general public is that we are assured a seat at each game. Due to the increased enrollment at both St. Mary's and Notre Dame this year, many students were put on waiting lists. According to Mike Busick, ticket manager at Notre Dame, around one hundred students at St. Mary's alone are without tickets and anxiously awaiting news of any extras. 
The first burst of spirit during the football weekend is the pep rally. The spirit is contagious as the Band of the Fighting Irish strikes up the first notes of the fight song. The band consists of 176 members, nine of whom are St. Mary's students. 
Karen Peeler, a sophomore at St. Mary's, is beginning her second year as a member of the band, and is one of only two female percussionists. According to Peeler, "It is a great feeling representing St. Mary's, for once not as a 'Smick chick', but simply as another member of the band." Peeler says the practices are demanding and "sometimes you wonder why you are there. But when you're in the tunnel before the game and everyone is going bananas, the work seems all worthwhile." 
lifadditlon to banlfmembers, St. Mary's is again represented on the cheerleading squad, this year by Michelle Gilson, a junior from Pittsburgh. Gilson feels it shouldn't matter which school you are from to be a cheerleader. "I am not a token Smick girl," says Gilson. "B~ing a cheerleader is a great honor and it is a glamour job. But mainly it is a public relations job for both schools. I just try my best.'' 
The enthusiastic support of St. Mary's is not limited to buying tickets, playing in the band, or cheering with the squad. We also take part in the pre-game and post-game activities. These activities range from selling programs, attending tail-gate parties, victory parties and any other party which may be going on. 
St. Mary's is proud and grateful to be an active part of the spirit of the Fighting Irish. We are always behind the Irish 100 percent and ready to cheer Notre Dame on to victory. 
And besides fellas, without St. Mary's, where would you go for your infamous "panty raids?" I 
Notre Dame began. In February of his senior year McLane decided to attend Notre Dame. Good things have happened ever since. 
As a sophomore, McLane did not play much but highlighted his entire career by scoring a touchd­own against Alabama in the Oran­ge Bowl. "Besides being elected captain, that has to be one of the most memorable moments in my career." says McLane of the expe­rience. His only other touchdown for Notre Dame came against Northwestern last season. 
Although a key to the Notre Dame backfield, McLane's job does not necesitate him to carry the ball. 
His mainstays are his great hands and tremendous blocking ability. Not overly big at 6-1, 204 lbs., his success is due mainly to his determination and hard work. 
And of course, complaints are rare from McLane. He is satisfied with his contribution to the team, out of the limelight of Jerome Heavens and AI Hunter. "It is a team effort and if I can contribute in the least way even if it means not carrying the ball or sitting on the bench then that is how I'll do it, " he explains. 
Those who know Notre Dame football can tell you that is imposs­ible. Behind Jerome Heaven's 73-yard gallop against Georgia Tech there was a Mark McLane block. It was McLane who threw a block to spring AI Hunter on the second play of the day against Southern California for a 52-yard touchdown run. 
McLane of course does have the ability to carry the ball when called upon by Coach Devine. In the first game of the year against Boston College on national television Mc­Lane rushed for 63 yards in just 7 carries and averaged 4.2 yards a carry each time he rushed the ball for the Irish last season. He is truly an all round athlete and an import­ant part of Notre Dame's 1976 gridiron program. 
Another important ingredient to success in South Bend comes in a little bigger package. At 6-3, 236 lbs., Willie Fry anchors not only the front four but the entire defensive team. 
Graduating from Northside Hi­
gh School in Memphis, Tenn., Fry 
accumulated many awards. Athle­
tics were not his only accomplish­
ments as he was selected Outstan­
ding American High School stude­
nt and Outstanding Teenager. of 
America besides being a member 
of the National Honor Society. 
League Leaders 
AMERICAN LEAGUE Player, club G AB R H Pet. McRae, KC 126 440 65 152 .345 
G. Breit, KC 135 549 81 182 .332 Corew, Min 1:U 526 84 174 .331 Bostock, Min 111 406 5I 132 .325 LeFlore, Dtl 130 527 90 167 .317 Garr, SOX 115 448 54 140 .313 Lynn, Bsn 121 471 69 146 .310 Rivers, NY 125 554 88 171 .309 Munson, NY 131 530 70 160 .:102 Carty, Cle · 130 472 59 142 .301 Home Runs 
G. Nettles, N•w York, 25; L. May, Baltimor!, 24; Banda, Oakland, 24; ReJackson, Baltimore, 22; Hendrick, Cleveland, 22. 
Runs Batted In 

L. May. Baltimore, 94; Chambliss, New York, 89; Munson, New York, 89; ReJackson, Baltimore, 16; Ystrztmski, Boston, 85; Mayberrv, KanSis City, 85. 
Pitching [12 Decisions) 
w. CamPbell, Minnesota, 15-4; Gar· land, Baltimore, 16-6; D. Ellis, Ntw York, 15-4; Leonard, Kanaa! C_lty, 16·7; BibbY, Cleveland, 11·5; E. Folu­eroa New York, 16-8; Fldrych, Dttroll, 15•.; Tanana, California, 15·9. 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 
AB R H Pet. 

Morgan. Cin. 411 103 140 .341 
Madlock, CUBS 4.44 59 150 .331 
Johnstone, Phi. 3'12 56 125 .J:u 
Griffey, Cin. 486 101 163 .335 
A. Oliver, P1h. 416 " 131 .332 
G. Maddox. Phi. 469 " 154 .321 
Rose, Cin. 565 11 a 112 .322 
G. Foster, Cin. 503 10 157 .312 
Geronimo, Cin. 429 52 133 .310 
J. Crvz, Htn. 371 43 115 .310 
Home Runs 

Kintmln, Ntw York, 34; Schmidt, 
Phlladel!lllia, 33; G. Foster, Clncinnltl, 
29; MondiY, CUBS, 28; M0111n, Cl~ 
cinnati. 27. 
Runs latlld In 

G. P'Oster, CIRclnlllfl, 1151 M~rttn, CinciMIIi, 105; WlfMR, HWifell, 89; Schmidt, PbllldiiPhll, IIJ. Ldlllllll, 
P~iiiU!Phll,' U. 
Pitching 

AICIII, Clncinnail, 11·31 lti!Odtn. Los 
AJiftlll• 11-3; Ctri!H, PllllldiiPhl• 
16-5; Norlftlll, CIIICIRnatl, 12-41 CH· 
dtltrla, PII!Hurth, 14-5; Dtlllery, """ 
lllr9h~ 1o-4; ZKh"' CIIICIIIRIII, 12·11 
Koosman, Ntw Yilt. 1f.l. 
Among his other awards were outstanding scholar-athlete in his high school coupled with all-state and All-American awards in footb­all his senior year. 
Another of his awards was being elected captain of the 1976 Irish football team. This however has a special significance over McLane since Fry is still only a junior. He is the first junior to be elected captain pressure to the quarterback. Fry also came up with 2 fumbles and a blocked kick to aid Notre Dame's big play defense. 
As for this weekend, both Fry and McLane are looking forward to Pittsburgh. No one needs to remind them of an embarassing 34-20 defeat to the Dorsett-led-Pa­nthers. Fry remembers clearly how the Pitt offense totally humiliated 
Co-captain Willie Fry must gu a young defensive unit besicles 

sacking quarterbacks from his end position. 
in ten years. the then strong Irish defense. In 
Hampered last season by a nose that game alone Dorsett rushed for injury and ankle problems, Fry still over 300 yards. managed to be fifth on the team This year Dorsett is back but so with 78 tackles besides leading the are Willie Fry and Mark McLane. team in tackles for losses with 14 Many feel that it is a revenge for a total 100 yards. match for Notre Dame. When 
Fry's biggest asset to the Irish numbers 94 and 22 lead the rest of however does not show up in the the Irish on to the field however statistics directly. As a team last they do it not for revenge. For each year Notre Dame intercepted 13 it is a sense of pride, pride in their passes. Fry and the rest of the school, their team and themselves. front four caused many of the They are winners in every way both turnovers by applying constant on and off the field. 
Fred Herbst ~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=====~====================================================================:=:=:===:==::::===: 
-Extra Points 
:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=====:::::::::::::::::::::::::;The opening game 
When Notre Dame takes to the field tomorrow afternoon to meet the Pitt . Panthers, they may very well be doing more than just opening their season. They may be making their season. 
The Irish are coming off their worst season in terms of a won -lost record in recent years. But more importantly, they're coming off a season filled with controversy. There were rumors of dissention on the team, of Head Coach Dan Devine's failure to know the plays, of his poor treatment of the prep team, of his removal and finally of the team turning down a bowl bid rather than play another game for Devine. 
Were any of these rumors true? We'll probably never know for certain. But that was last year anyway, it doesn't matter now -right? Wrong. 
Last season is still fresh in the minds of the media and most fans. Critics of Notre Dame are waiting for:..a reccurence of the rumors, Irish fans are praying that there is no such reccurence. The entire situation is unfortunate. 
Obviously, such rumors are detrimental to the Irish football program. They distract the team from the job at hand, winning football games. They create a tension on the squad that puts everyone on edge. Such rumors destroy the cohesion of the team. 
Notre Dame is the most successful, famous and legendary of all college football teams. The Irish established their footbaJI tradition on the gridiron, not by being embroiled in rumors of team dissention, coaching changes and other sorts of controversy. The rumors that followed the Irish last season didn't die with the Miami game. Those rumors can only be put to rest by plaCing emphasis where it belongs -on the field. 
Controversy is always more attractive than the ordinary, so for the Irish to squelch last season's rumors they have to do something extra-ordinary. 
Matching last year's mark won't do the job. Another 8-3 season, or anything less, and the air will be full of rumors again. Rumors that will tarnish the Notre Dame image. 
So the Irish need to have an excellent season this fall. That puts a lot of pressure on the team, but at Notre Dame that's nothing new. 
The Irish are a young team, but one that has tremendous potential. All they need to produce a great season and kill last year's rumors is some experience and a good start. 
Getting off to a good start won't be easy, Pittsburgh is here to see to that, but it's nonetheless essential. No coach is foolish enough to place so much importance on an opening game as to make the remainder of the schedule meaningless should he lose. A loss to Pitt would by no means be the end of the season for the Irish. But with rugged teams like Purdue, Alabama, Southern Cal, Georgia Tech and South Carolina coming up, a loss tomorrow would certainly put the Irish in a position where it would be extremely difficult to better ·last season's 8-3 record. 
Irish tackle Pitt in season opener 
by Fred Herbst Sports Editor 

"It was the most embarrassing moment in the football careers of most of our players and coaches, I know it was certainly mine." 
That's how Notre Dame Head Coach Dan Devine summed up last year's battle with the Pittsburgh Panthers that saw the Irish fall 34-20 and Tony "T.D." Dorsett run wild through a hapless defense for a record-shattering 303 yards. 
Almost a year later, the Irish will attempt to ease the sting of that loss when they take on Pitt tomorr­ow in Notre Dame Stadium. 
The Irish defense will receive a stiff test from one of the most experienced and explosive offenses in the nation. Head Coach Johnny Majors is blessed with two experi­enced quarterbacks to call on. Matt Cavanaugh, who led Pitt against the Irish last season, and Bob Haygood, who was MVP in the Sun Bowl, are. battling for the number-one job. Majors has said that he won't name his starter until gametime. 
Speedsters Gordon Jones and Willie Taylor team with tight end Stone, guards Tom Brzoza and Jim Corbett to give whoever is Matt Carroll, and center John throwing three excellent receivers. Pelusi. 
Despite an ankle injuiry, fullback But the man who makes the Elliott Walker is expected to play Panthers go is Reisman Trophy tomorrow. He had his cast candidate Tony Dorsett. Dorsett, removed Wednesday and "should who needs to average only 94 yards be ready to go'' according to per game this season to become the Majors. . all-time NCAA rushing leader, has 
The front wall is manned by made a habit of abusing the Irish. tackles John Hanauser and Joe In three games against Notre 
Fred Herbst 
'===============================================================================================================: 
The Irish Eye 
==========================================;===============================================================Football Picks 
Another college football season is upon us. It seems as if every year competition becomes better and there are more and inore "upsets" that aren't really "upsets." This is all very good for college football, but it doesn't help the Observer sports editor who is required by tradition to make his "picks" every Friday of the season. To open the season, here are The Irish Eye's Top Ten: 1) Arizona State 2) Michigan 3) Nebraska 4) Southern Cal 5) California 6) Pittsburgh 7) Oklahoma 8)0hio State 9) Texas 10) Miami of Ohio 
Here are The Irish Eye picks for this week: Alabama at Mississippi: Bear Bryant's charges aren't expected to be the power that they have been in recent years. Still, they'll be good enough to win another SEC title. Barna by 14.
• 
Texas at Boston College: BC is starting this season the same way they started last season, with a big game at home. Texas is a power to be reckoned with, unfortunately for BC, who isn't. The Longhorns by 17. Bowling Green at Syracuse: Bowling Green is probably the second best team in the MAC. Syracuse is rebuilding under Frank Maloney and are headed for a return to their glory days. Syracuse by a Dave Jacobs field goal. Oklahoma at Vanderbilt: The Sooners have been demoted to the ranks of mere mortals by graduation, not that Vandy will be able to notice. Oklahoma by 30. Stanford at Penn State: Joe Paterno is known for producing quality football and this year won't be any exception. Stanford is a tough opponent and there is a realistic possibility for an upset here. Penn State by 7. Duke at Tennessee: As usual the Vols will be rugged and the Blue Devils will be up and do\\<n. .Tennessee's defense should have no trouble crushing the Duke offense. Tennessee by 10. Georgia at California: Georgia has a good club, but Cal has quaterback Joe Roth. Roth, who has no peer in the college ranks at quarterback, will lead the Bears to their best season in years. Cal by 10. Kutztown State at Lehigh: Kutztown is a tough little school, but Lehigh is the defending Lambert Cup Champion. Behind the savage defensive play of John Matt, the Engineers are a good bet to win the NCAA division II title. Lehigh by 25. Miami [0.) at Marshall: The Redskins are probably the most underrated team in the nation. It's just remarkable the way they turn out excellent football teams. Regardless of their schedule they deserve credit. Look for Miami to rebound from last week's upset loss to North CaJolina. Miami by 
30. Wisconsin at Michigan: Michigan may be the class of the nation, Wisconsin isn't even the class of Madison. Wolves by 20. Michigan State at Ohio State: This game may be the highlight of the day. Michigan State won't win, it won't even be close, but they might kill Woody Hayes. It couldn't happen to a nicer guy. Ohio State by 18. Southern Cal at Missouri: Dan Devine couldn't even help the Tigers here. Look for the Trojans to roll by 14. Nebraska at LSU: LSU is incredibly tough in Baton Rouge, as Notre Dame found out a couple of years ago. Still, Nebraska is one of the class teams in the country. Huskers by 7. Pittsburgh at Notre Dame: Pitt has a better team, they're more experienced and much faster. Dorsett is the best bac~ i~ the country an.d it's doubtful that he'll be held under 100 yards. But Pttt ts known for thetr slow starts and the game is here. ~otre Dame by 3. 
UPSET OF THE WEEK: Georgia Tech at South Carolina: Pepper Rogers has a Tech club that he can be proud of, they won't lose many this year. But South Carolina has two 1,000 -yard backs in Kevin Long and Clarence Williams. The Gamecocks are a good club and are mQre than capable of upsetting the Yellowjackets. Carolina by 4. 

Dame, "T.D." has rushed for 573 
yards, the most ever gained by an 
opponent against the Irish. 
Notre Dame will counter with a 
young but experienced defense. 
Potential All-Americans Ross Bro­
wner and Willie Fry will man the 
ends while Jeff Weston, who twice 
gained wire service "Lineman of 
the Week" honors last season, and 
Mike Calhoun, who will fill the void 
left by Steve Niehaus, will be the 
tackles. 
The linebacking corps is especi­
ally young with junior Doug Becker 
and sophomores Steve Heimkreiter 
and Bob Golic. Heimkreiter and 
Becker will play the outside positi­
ions while Golic will fill the middle. 
All-American candidate Luther 
Bradley will team with former 
split-end Ted Burgmeier at the 
corners. Safeties Randy Harrison 
and Jim Browner, an ex-fullback, 
round out the secondary. 
The Panthers return seven regu­
lars from a defense that scored 
three shutouts and limited oppone­
nts to one touchdown or less in six 
games last season. "Pitt has such 
a great ·offense that the tendency is 
to overlook the defense," Devine 
said. ''But I can assure you that 
Pitt not only has an excellent 
offense, but a very strong defense." Ends Ed Wilamowski and Cecil Johnson, tackles Don Parrish and Randy Holloway, and All-American · middle guard AI Romano form the 
Panther defensive line. 
Arnie Weatherington and James 
Cramer will man the linebacker 
spots. 
The secondary will field James 
Wilson and Leroy Felder at the 
corners and Bob Jury at safety. 
Jeff Delaney will play the monster. 
Again this season, Devine has 
ND-SMC 

Weekend Sports 
Friday: 
7 p.m. Soccer, N.D. vs. Purdue at Cartier Field. 
Saturday: 
9 a.m. Tennis, St. Mary's vs. Ind. 
State at SMC 
11 a.m. X-Country, N.D. vs Purdue at Burke Golf Course 
3:20 p.m. Football, N.D. vs. Pitt. at N.D. Stadium. 
Pep rally tonight 
The pep rally for the Pittsburgh game will be held tonight, Sept. 10, at 7 p.m. in Stepan Center. 
been forced to build his offensive line around a single returnee. Guard Ernie Huges will provide the experience for an otherwise inexp­erienced line. Joining Hughes will be either Mike Carney or Elton Moore at the other guard, Harry Woekenberg and Steve McDaniels at the tackles and center Dave Huffman. 
All-American Ken MacAfee will return to tight end for the Irish while Kris Haines will start at wide receiver. Rick Slager woh the starting nod at quarterback with impressive spring and fall perfor­mances. However, the injury to Joe Montana has cost Notre Dame valuable depth at the position. Gary Forystek and Rusty Lisch have moved up in line to backup Slager. 
Last year's leading rusher, fullb­ack Jerome Heavens, returns to his spot in the backfield. He is joined there by co-captain Mark McLane and speedster AI Hunter at the halfback slots. 
The Irish will field one of its youngest teams in history tomorr­ow, starting no seniors on the 
defense and only three on offense 
(Slager, McLane and Moore). 
"I'm thrilled to death. to be 
playing Pitt," Devine said. "I'm 
realistic enough to see our inexper­
ience, but I'm still very excited 
about playing a team that is so 
tremendously experienced and tal­
ented." 
The Pitt-Notre Dame series dates 
back to 1909 and the Irish hold a 
28-12-1 edge in the win column. 
Since Johnny Majors has joined 
Pitt the games have become a lot 
more interesting, the Panthers 
trailed only 17-10 in the fourth 
quarter in 1973 before the Irish put 
them away 31-10; Notre Dame had 
to knock down a fourth-down pass 
to win 14-10 in 1974; and the 
Panthers won 34-20 last year. Pitt 
had lost 11 straight to the Irish 
before last year's win . 
Both teams are ranked in the top 
20 in both wire-service preseason 
polls, the Panthers ranking ninth in 
both while the Irish are 11th in the 
AP rankings and 13th in the UPI 
poll. 
Pitt, winners of last season's Sun 
Bowl, wound up 15th in the AP poll 
and 13th in the UPI last season 
posting an 8-4 slate. Notre Dame 
was unranked by the AP and were 
17th in the UPI last year posting a 
8-3 mark. 
Dan Devine enters his 18th college 
campaign tomorrovy with a 127-44-6 
record. The .732 percentage places 
him seventh among active coaches. 
Notre Dame enters its 88th football season tomorrow with an overall record of 571-153-38, a .774 percentage. The Irish have a .933 record on opening day since the turn of the century. The Irish have dropped but three opening game!!, the last to Wisconsin in 1963 (9-14), and have tied four times, a 7-7 tie with the Badgers in 1952 being the last. 
Kickoff is set for 3:20 p.m. 
E.S.T. The game will be broad.cast by Don Criqui and Pat Sheridan on the Mutual Radio Network. The . game will also be broadcast by Kevin Deighan and John Stenson on WSND. The battle will be televised regionally to 85 percent of the nation by ABC. Keith Jackson and former-Notre Dame head coach Ara Parseghian will handle the tilt for the national network . 
Jimmy '' The Greek'': Irish by 4 
by Fred Herbst Sports Editor 
Just by his mere presence on the field, Tony Dorsett is worth three points to the Pittsburgh Panthers in their showdown with Notre Dame Saturday afternoon according to Jimmy "The Greek" Snyder. 
In an exclusive telephone interview, the noted Las Vegas-based prognosticator said, "Dorsett doesn't have to gain a yard, just by being there he means three points for his team." 
''Stopping Dorsett is the key for the Irish,'' Snyder said. "There's no question about it, Pittsburgh is only as good as Tony Dorsett. The fact that he'll be running on natural grass hasn't affected my view of the game at all. Quality runners can run on anything, he'll run just as well on grass as he does on turf." 
But who is the favorite? According to Synder's composite ratings of college football teams, on a neutral field, Pittsburgh is ~o point, better than the Irish, so there'sPitt by two. Snyder then gives the Irish nine points since it's their home opener, so there's Notr~ Dame by seven. He then gives Pitt three points for having Tony Dorsett, so there it is. Notre Dame by four. 
Synder is quick to point out however, that the odds of Notre Dame winning by exactly four points are 30 to 1 against. 
"It's important to remember that I don't make predictions or point spreads," Snyder said. "I study and analyze games in order to establish an equalization figure." The "equalization figure" is what is commonly known as a point spread." 
What about the rest of Notre Dame's season? 
"Notre Dame is definitely a 9-2 team," according to Snyder. "Pitt is a big game for the Irish, a loss there and they'll go 8-3. Southern Cal is in Los Angeles so there's a loss. Alabama is in South Bend so that's a toss-up. Purdue appears to have the best shot at an upset." 
Snyder pointed out that Notre Dame's excellent assistant coaches give the Irish the advantage in many games that would normally be rated as even. 
Finally, Snyder mentioned the effect that rumors, such as those that circulated about Notre Dame last year, have on a game. · "Rumors like that can cost a team up to three points a game," he remarked. ''And actual dissention or trouble on a team can cost them seven or more points a game. Togetherness is the most important factor of all.'' 




