--------------------------------------------------------------~~~~~~~~~~~~~~----~~~-------_-_-_-_-t_~h~~-~-o~~-s:~-!:_-'!__:_-~-r_--__-_-_--3----~.-•l• 

by Paul Hess for those people whose lives were 
Staff Reporter in some way or another marred by 
the never-ending strife that Freyer 
On sabbatical from the land of described O'Casey as "an Irish 
the real Fighting Irish, Dr. Grattan Dickens." He concluded that "it's 
Freyer delighted his Haggar Hall almost too bad he was a play­
audience last night with his lecture, wright," suggesting that the liter­
"Literature and Violence in 20th ary world was deprived of a great 
century Ireland.'' novelist. 
Adding yet another American But what most pleased the crowd 
university to a list of more than fifty was Freyer's account of what he 
at which he has spoken, Freyer, termed the ''black humor'' of 
sporting a silver-gray beard, offer­modern Irish literature. In the 
ed a rare insight into the troubles besieged world that so many Irish 
that have beset his native land now find themselves trapped, one 
throughout the present century. outlet for their frustration has been 
His method of doing so was the appearance of "a rather sick 
through studying a handful of sort of humor," as the Irish Ireland's most prolific twentieth speaker put it. Freyer gave exam­century writers because, as he put ples of such humor to his unsus­it, "most of them have been closely pecting listeners, who in turn related to our history." chuckled. 
Irish history, particularly in the Although detached and witty at last hundred years. has been times, the noted lecturer's face 
turbulent. as Freyer was quick to reddened and voice quivered as he 
point out. "The endless struggle read the following quote from 
for independence has been a O'Casey's June and the Paycock: 
constant source of themes for Irish "No man can do enough for 
writers," he said, "and such Ireland.'' 
writings have had a great effect on Brian Inglis, well-known Irish 
the Irish people." The people of historian and television commenta­
Ireland have seemed to accept the tor, will conclude the two-day works of such authors with a series tonight with a lecture entit­religious-like fervor, and this was led "In the Shadow of the Gunmen: one of the lecturer's most interest­Individual Rights and Northern 
ing topics. Ireland," at 8:00 p.m. in the Law Starting with the poetry of Building. Room 101. William Butler Yeats, Freyer pro­ceeded to demonstrate how vio­lence and rebellion arc as much an 
Griffin celebrates 
integral part of the heritage of Ireland as any other country on the face of the planet. "Our political May Mass in Grotto life. like American political life," he was later to point out, "has been 
Fr. Robert Griffin, University an extremely volatile one." 
chaplain, will be celebrating his Another Irish writer, the play­annual May Mass in the Grotto this wright Scan O'Casey, was also Sunday, May 2, at 5:00 p.m.
cited as an example of the close ties Members of the Glee Club will be 
between violence and the writer. 
present to sing. In previous"He'd seen the suffering," Freyer years Gi-iffin has celebrated the noted, "and his resultant intense 
mass on May 1 but he has decided compassion for the human condi­to shift it to Sunday the second this 
tion is manifest in his writings." 
year. All members of the Universi­
So profound was this compassion ty community are invitPn 
ri~~-;-;;~;~:~~::1 
Tuesday, April 27, 1976 
Gassman sketches future 
Student Congress held 
by Karen Sikorski councils. 
Council-and its potential for the
Staff Reporter --Establishment of a strong student 
coming year. The most important
lobby in the state legislature to 
accomplishment by SLC members,
Coordination and cooperation are work toward lowering the drinking 
Byrne noted, was increasing the
the objectives of the new Student age in Indiana. Gassman pointed 
effectiveness of the group itself. 
Body Congress, according to Mike out that this lobby will develop a 
"We redefined the SLC and added 
Gassman, Student Body president. relationship with legislators which 
to its legislative ability, which is, of 
Gassman addressed last night's could be used to influence voting 
course, tempered by Father Hes­
introductory meeting of the con­on other issues affecting the Uni­
burgh's hand," he said. 
gress in the LaFortune amphi­versity. 
Byrne named several activities of 
theater. Vince Moschella, execut­--Further attempts to change parie­
the SLC, including the LaFortune 
ive coordinator of Student Govern­tal, party and alcohol policies. One 
remodeling and the student life 
ment, presided over the meeting. plan, Gassman said, calls for 
survey. He said that the SLC was 
The purpose of the assembly, bringing alcohol rules to the hall 
chosen to follow up the COUl
Gassman said, is to bring together level rather than the University 
reports because the original com­
the various student government level. 
mittee got a disappointing re­
organizations in one group, "where --Improved cooperation between 
sponse from the trustees. "The
all the factions can work together student government and the alum­
COUL reports have been deified,"
toward their goals." ni and board of trustees. 
claimed Byrne, a former COUL 
The SBP outlined several specific A cabinet will be formed within 
member. "They fell short of our 
objectives of student government the congress made up of represent­
expectations."
in the coming year: atives from student government 
The trustees told COUL mem­
--Continued work by the SLC on the groups, plus members with special 
bers to take their recommendations 
Committee on Undergraduate Life duties such as a press secretary 
to the administration, and it was
(COUL) reports. and a representative of the Om­
decided to have the entire SlC deal
--Improved relations with the facul­budsman. 
with proposals in the reports.
ty through the student representat­Past SBP Ed Byrne spoke about 
(Continued on page 6)
ives on academic and college the progress of the Student Life 

1  of course!  1  
II  Name.  II  
1  I will come to the barbecue.  I  
I  I will come to the evening party.  I  
I \  I want a T -Shirt. Size. Now ya know who loves ya.  IJ  

~---------------' 


129 north michigan street, downtown south bend tuesday, april 27 
chicago blues 
featuring Big Red, John Rencher, Chico & Rich wednesday, april 28 
russ hunt 
friday & saturday-SON SEALS 
R..EAL .MUSIC~ FOOD AND DR1NK,. 
Homemade Food, Popular Pnces & No Computers 
-·-· .... ...... .. ~ .... ' . .... , '""" ---­


*~J.~~~~rver 
Founded November 3. 1966 The Observer,., publ"h"ci by studt·nts ot thE' Unov!'rsotv of Notrt' Dame anci EDITORIAL BOARD '>I Mar\·, College It does not nE'C!'ssarolv r!'flpct the poloue> ot !'othPr 1hom,,,() ...,,.,1 
I dotor·on·Choet
""totutoon ThP nPws "'rPport!'d as acturatPIY anci obwctov!'ly as possobiP lJ.Hl ',.ooH ht>t 
Mt1na~ong Edotor
1 dotorodl' reprt>,t'nt thP oponoon ot a mdJOrotv ot tht' f ciotoroal Board cr..gg Jl,ong, I "'' ut ovt' 1:-do torComm<'ntariP' MP thP voPVos of onciovodual Pdotor' Oponoon>. cartoon; and 
\'t~llurbl" I "'' utove Edotor
n·gul.u <olumn' expre>> the vopws ot theor author' Column >[ldC<' " 
f'.ot Hanoton I dotoroal f-ciotor 
'" ,11l,ohlt· to all nwmbPr> ol thP communot\. anci IE'ttPr> ar<' PncouragPd to 
Bob ,'V\,odPr I ,,., utov•• Ne"' f do tor 
prumot•· tht• trt't' expr!'S')OOn of varyong oponoon> on campu> 
.\.1,oun•t•n I h nn C,11npu' Edotor ,\.1,,rto Hog.1n St Mary'' Fdotor Don Kt>lllll'r Cop\ E.dotor 
'-• '\\, .'H \ Hhh 1 lom 0 KPoiP\ I t'tltur<'' 1· do tor I n•d lkrh't Sport' E dotor M.or\ I g.on C:ontrobutong [ dotor
1om ,'.-1odglon 
Tuesday, April 27, 1976 
P.O.BoxQ 
di,turbing: homoscxualit:,· per se is immoral.
opinion~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
If one can intclli.:L'IItll discuss the issue of homosexuality only in the context of Hun'~ana~· Vitae, then the validity of his statements can hardly be que~tioncd. Homo~cxuality, .contraception. and 
p: L'·marital ~c'x arc all cnndcmned h1 the teaching of the Church, \\ hctlll'r or not thL fl,h:k b in acnlt·d. and regardlcs~ of their practiL·c. Hut can llumanac Vitae hl· the conte:-.t for issues that 
Notes On A Pig Farmer 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiidon brittn a cher involve pcnpil' of all rcligiom and beliefs? How are we to account A fnend of mine raises pigs up in the hard realities of farm and strange and distorted concoctions for the ''ide variet\' of moral code!>. and how are we to lind a northeastern Wisconsin. He has family. He tempers these visions from air and hearsay. The truth is reference. point for. saying that one moral code is preferable to two long sheds divided into family with minor miracles--a new silo, hidden from view, rendering pos­another? stalls and a wide, fenced-in pigyard the marriage of a daughter, his sibly fruitful encounters sterile. Mr. Rice is free to accept the rulings of the Church. but he is not for community romps. He feeds his wife's election to the school board. free to call this "obkctive." A simple cross-cultural examination pigs twice a day, and they are Pretension brings down his wrath; Another thing that separates will show a variet1 nf moral beliefs in different societies. Have we watered automatically thru a float­this farmer has no room for fat people is pretension. People spend the right to say. r;,r namplc. that in a South American tribe which pump mechanism. The sheds are congressmen or baroque furniture. their breathing hours looking for condones honw~cxualit1·, their behavior is immoral. or unnatural? cleaned twice monthly by hand, My friend hates Indians and something genuine. The spirit Our right to impn~c ,·,ur uw11 moral code upon them is highly with his sons providing the labor. Blacks. He hates Indians because alights and delights on a thing quL·qionahk. Prices are sometimes fickle, but he has to give money to the Indian which stands proudly on its own While the aL'L'Cptance of the Catholic Church and the teachings of my friend works hard and is proud missions on Sunday, and the two feet. A phoney facade event­the pope i~ a question of choice, homosexuality is not. and must be of his farm. He attends meetings Indians on the reservation just to ually crumbles like a sand castle dealt with in a contc\t larger than that of Humanae Vitae-A moral regularly and knows most there is the north of his pigfarm are always before the sea, leaving an empti­code generally has universal implications, and I am not certain that to know about pigs. He likes his at the bars when he's driving thru. ness where strength and beauty the Church, representing only a pot tion of mankind, is in a position place and spreads happiness to his He hates Blacks because he's never were once thought to have been, to make such a code. family and neighbors. He cusses and a tinge of bitterness.
met one. 
only when he has to. A relationship depends less With few exceptions, religious philosophies have been formulat­
I have learned two lessons from on 
Neighbors are fond of this pig­this man: smiles than on truth, less on beauty ed and elaborated by men who believed a life void of any sexual man because his actions are honest than on character, less on timing expression is morally superior; thus the promotion of celibacy, and genuine. His illusions of One thing that separates people than on depth. abstinence, and asceticism. Sex became fully acceptable only when 
grandeur whinny and tug softly in is ignorance. The mind plays These things I have learned from practiced at certain times, in certain ways, and with certain the hack of his mind, yet succum to games with the unknown, brewing my friend, who raises pigs. motivations. 
Ou, ~ex laws and customs derive largely from Jewish codes. Much of the punitive, restrictive nature result~ from moral arguments found in the Talmud, written just prior to and during the time of carlv christians. Prohibitions were devised against partinllar ani;nals. particular foods, and sex relations with persons of a particular social status. There arose a newly formulated purposive concept of sex; it was strictly for reproduction. All other
unprepared for the job become most helpful; hopefully with a few u~,·~ were said to be against nature. Purposiveness became thedirector of the Rome program? I minor change~ here and there. this
Rice is Right 
rationale for limiting sex and strengthening asceticism.
am sure that she will have a good event will become a tradition at An 1~ hctcro~L'\ualitv nature's intent? Docs nature seem to allow antime. The students, however, will Tostal time.
Dear Editor: cx,·,·ption to the orientation of the majority? A look to hiulogy might 
suffer. David J. Young 
hL· helpful. (lhc objcctii'C moral code j., said to be founded in I thought Rice's cool, clinical human nature, and surely biology can tell u~ something about our
Thomas R-Sykes
objective article concerning Hum­natut '· ) In lower mammals, sexual behavior is dependent upon
Lecturer in History, 1971-75 
'Apology'
anae Vitae does justice to it. He spccic-.,-dcvcloped cues. referred to as "instinct;" these animals
Saint Mary's College Rome 
certainly clarifies the confusion for rely un !>pccilic physiologic control!>. At higher evolutionary levels, 
Program
those who misunderstand and mis­sexual patterns arc dependent upon individual learning. In human represent its teaching. He points Dear Editor: beings, hormones do power sexuality; but they do not control the out the distinction between the In regard to Thursday night's direction of it. Sexual direction is derived from what is individually
Thanks for
objective and subjective orders catastrophic disaster at the conclu­learned and experienced in personal and social settings. Is it according to authentic Catholic sion of the Mr. Campus Contest "natural" that we should all learn the same thing? Is it even moral teachings. when hundreds of onlookers were desirable? In the evolution of mammals, the control of sex has Rice speaks straight-forward on sprayed with a fire extinguisher moved from glands and reflexes to the heights of cortical
'Mr. Campus'
the homosexual issue. The object­from the third floor of Sorin, we management. The choice of sex object stems from each individual's ive wrongness of this act arises Dear Editor: must humbly "apoligize." We are elaborate sexual value system. Heterosexual responses are not from its violation of the objective At this time I would like to thank writing this "apology" in lieu of innate. Most people have been geared by their upbringing to moral order, rooted in the un­everyone associated with Gentle ''getting hung by the -----'' by expect and to want to be heterosexual. changeable essence of human nat­Thui·sday for making "Mr. certain members of the Sorin Societies and moral codes which suppress homosexuality most ure, which order exists whether Campus" a "successful" event. In Family. actively usually do so on the basis of broad moral suppositions one recognizes it or not. He particular I would like to express We have been forced to realize which put more constraints on heterosexual behavior than emphasized that the affirmation of my appreciation to Bob Quaken­that fire extinguisher spray is more homosexuality ever would. A moral code might be correct in the objective wrongness of homo­bush, Don Opel and his crew, Mary lethal than flying grapefruits, beer seeking to determine appropriate forms of human behavior, but sexual activity does not involve any Siegel. Jim E. Brogan. Sorin Hall, cans, and buckets of water which only those which it can rightfully control --rape and promiscuity judgement as to the subjective cul­the Barbershop Quartet from the were all part of the festivities at the might be given as examples. But sexual orientation. which is not a pability of any person. Glee.Ciub, Mark Grove. the Bana­prestigious affair. Fr. Stella, rector cunsciou., choice in its origin, cannot realistically be governed by 
I urge a careful and reflective na Band and the 2 students of 125 of Sorin, feels that the only possible abstract rules. reading of both Humanae Vitae and Sorin who loaned us their room for solution to this desgrace of Sorin's If one a,·cepb the tenets of the Catholic Church, honw~cxuality Rice's article: Homosexuals Un­the evening ( they actually studied dignified reputation is to ''make might be seen as immoral along with pre-marital sex and natural (April22, 1976) to the Notre during the whole affair in an this into a big deal." Well, this is contraception. If one is aware of the developments in modern Dame community. adjacent room). the Big Deal of the Day: a $25.00 socilllogy. expecially in the area of sex research, and in modern 
Finally. a special note of appre­fine each in American currency, psyrhology. it is difficult to embrace Church policy. Any resolution 
Brother Don Fleischhacker, C.S.C. ciation is due to Nathan Stone for and this letter of "apology." must be a personal one. One is free to accept the pope as Vicar of loaning me his tux and being so Christ, as does Mr. Rice, and on this basis accept his undcstanding after that pic in the Regretfully submitted, pronouncements. But it is not reasonable to consider homosexuality
Defend Rome 
face episode ( the tux was covered Mike Carney which spans all cultures and all beliefs. in the narrow context of with whipped cream). You all were Tom Gullickson Catholic teaching alone.
Future 
Dear Editor: 
A~ a former faculty member of the SMC Rome program. I am writing to protc~t the appointment of the new director for 1976-77. 
I cannot imagine that a 63 year old assistant librarian. with no academic preparation whatsoever, qualified to become director of the SMC Rome program. 
The administration, however, has appointed such a person. 
It is time to end the practice of giving the aged ladies a vacation in Rome. 
I urge alumni of the Rome program to defend its future. Why should a person who is totally 
ANY/1/AY, JIM, TH/5 11/fll, I'P ~HAPPY 70 ~ ISCWETEWRC [)ISCUSS IT WITH HlfR.,::> CANOIOATE, ANO ZONKER. TliUM&-15m ANYSUPPORJ YOO 511£ RUNNING ON THE 
CAN 6/V& HCR 11101/t/J 155Uf5 OR ONH&R.
ffl 
{ 8& GREATLY I CHARACTeR?
z 
APPI?£C/ATl/J! 
/BOTH!
0 
0 
0 ro 
opinion~~~~~~~~~ 
Sex Morals Subjective 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiipeter kort h 
In a l'l<'L'llt a1ti,k puhlished in The Observer, Charles E. Rice dL<olt 11:1 11 the i~~ue ol homosexuality, attempting to make a di~t ilh t it:il hl'tll l'L n <he ohiL'c·t ive and subjective orders. The .. ,, l<>llc;ll<''' .. or humuscxualill. he fecb. is a purely objective m;tl tcT. ;o:1d qe111-., from thL 1 i<llatiun of an objective moral order. Hi·,,;,." oJllil•t j, ;o1 noH'l' rcfn·'llo'l..; and di~tressing; he did not claim hon""'· \·u.J!io<· tc: !h · 1.Jl10ralun tile grounds ,,f promiscuity. He did IH" ... p,·;o~ ··: ;t ,,, a · ;kknes~ ... perhaps kno\\'ing that the American "· . ''i.olloL A~,uc.ation has cca,l'd to view it a~ such. While these f.och ao'L' rcfrc~hing. l:is arpnlach is much more direct and 



university of notre dame -st. mary's collegeVol. X, No. 124 Tuesday, April 27, 1976 
Nearly 64 percent of the students Social atmosphere who were surveyed drink less than five cans of beer per week. The The results indicate that many breakdown of the beer drinking is students are dissatisfied with the
Gassman declines position in 
as follows: 29 percent never drink social environment. This is indicat­during the week, 35 percent drink ed by the 71 percent who believe between one to four cans per week; that a healthy man-woman relation­
Reagan campaign structure 
IS percent drink S-8 cans per week; ship does not exist at Notre Dame. 10 percent consume eight to twelve This figure varies greatly betweenparently approved by Gassman honorary title.
by Barbara Breitenstein cans of beer and S percent drink the freshmen women and the
before being forwarded to the AP. "I was shocked when I heard
Senior Staff Reporter from twelve to twenty-six cans per senior women, as nearly half the
Gassman, however, had misunder­that there was some report that week. "Another S percent," Van freshmen believe in healthy relat­Because of a misunderstanding stood what his position would be Mike (Gassman) didn't know any­Tassel points...out, "are fish. They ionship compared to a mere 7between Mike Gassman, Student and what it would entail. Gassman thing about the whole thing," go off the scale." Of those who do percent of the female seniors.
Body president. and officials in the had originally agreed to the job, as Coren revealed. "I thought we had drink, the majority drinks in small, One-half of the women feel that
Indiana State Citizens for Reagan reported. talked it all over and everything 
mixed groups. Notre Dame offers a beneficialcampaigu office, Gassman was As Youth for Reagan chairman, had been straightened out before.'' 
Where do you find these beer environment. Forty-three percentalmost named Indiana Youth for Gassman was to have been respon­Coren thought at first the confus­
drinkers? of the men agree that Notre Damelkagan chairman. sible fllr coordinating the activities ion was that Dr. Dennis Nicholas, The majority claim that they offers a beneficial environment.
The appointment was announced of college and high school students state chairman, had made the drink mainly in their own dorm. Furthermore, the freshmen areyesterday morning in a story across Indiana who support Ronald appointment instead of Coren, who Forty-six percent occasionally drink more favorable to the social envir­reported by the Associated Press Reagan, Republican presidential had contacted Gassman. 
in a friend's dorm, while 40 percent onment than the upperclassmen.
!AP) and announced all day on candidate. Due to a lack of time at The story was originally reported drink in the South Bend bars. The results from the SLC surveyWSND. the campus radio station. the end of the semester, Gassman here by WSND newsman, Rick Thirty-seven percent of the fresh­will be handed over to members ofGassman. who was "confused as to is unable to fultill the duties of the Kresse, who was the first to contact men frequently drink in Michigan, the Administration. Van Tassel
exactly what was going on," im­position. Gassman about the appointment. 
while 30 percent of the seniors mentions that the conclusionsmediately denied the story. However, Gassman's name will Gassman told Kresse that he knew 
never drink there. reached from this survey couldA press release announcing be used in support of Reagan's nothing about the report. 
The reasons given for drinking possibly have some influence inGassman's appointment was ap-stand on abortion for releases and "It was all just a misunderstand­are diversified. Twelve percent future consideration of co-ed dorm­informational purposes. ing," Buchignani stated. 
frequently drink because they wish itories. 
"It's an honorary title," Gass­man explained. "The Reagan cam­paign will use my name in support Andrei Grechko of Reagan's stance on abortion as being in good Christian character and good personal character be­
Soviet Defense Minister dead 
cause he is willing to take a stand. They will use my name only in MOSCOW AP--Defense Minister Grechko, a burly, 6-foot-2 vet­now IS men in the politburo. relation to the abortion plank of Andrei A. Grechko, reputed to have eran of World War II, had a The leading contenders for Reagan's campaign," he stated. first opposed and then organized reputation here as a forward-think­Grechko's job, in the eyes of Reagan has endorsed the Human 
the Soviet-led invasion of Czecho­ing general who constantly pressed Western experts in Moscow, arc Life amendment against abortion 
slovakia in 1968, died in Moscow for big military spending and Marshal Ivan I. Yakubovsky, the and is the "only viable candidate yesterday, Tass reported. modernization of equipment and 64-year-old commander-in-chief of for President who has taken a 
In 1953, as commander of Soviet strategies. the Warsaw Pact forces, and Viktor strong pro-life stand," according to 
forces in East Germany, he was He became defense minister in G. Kulikov, 54, chief of the Soviet Leo Buchignani, St. Joseph County believed to have personally engin­1967, replacing Rod ion Malinov­general staff. Both are first deputy Youth for Reagan chairman and a eered the suppression of the revolt sky. defense ministers. 
MIKE GASSMAN 
of East Germans. One Western diplomat said Grechko, who stood ramrod Gassman's involvement with the The death ~f the 72-year-old Grechko was "dragged into deten­straight and rarely appeared on the senior at Notre Dame. 
RONALD REAGAN Reagan campaign began last sum­marshal, apparently due to a heart te," at least as far as it threatened Moscow diplomatic cocktail circuit,
""'~~:I 
attack, left vacancies in both the growth of the Soviet military bud­
...... t 
mer when he wrote a letter to the presided over one of the most 
Soviet military and political estab­get. dramatic arsenal buildups in peace­
national headquarters supporting Reagan and offering his assistance lishment. No successors were According to official Soviet fi­time history. 
~f 
"' 

in the campaign. Mike Coren, a immediately named. gures, the 1976 defense budget of The Soviet navy, particularly, national field man responsible for Grechko was a member of the 17.4 billion rubles $23.4 billion is grew under his administration. working with Indiana youth, not­all-powerful Communist party pol­just the same as last year's budget, Strategic missile forces may have 
itburo. Just four days ago, General though Western experts have their received somewhat less attention Indiana to begin the youth cam­of the Army Sergei M. Shtemenko, doubts. as the government continued its paign and contacted Buchignani. the chief of staff of the Warsaw Yet Grechko was seen mainly as policy--begun before Grechko--of 
"We talked to Mike Gassman, Pacts forces, also died in Moscow. a follower of politburo orders and backing away from Nikita S. who had just been elected Student No Effect On Forces highly reluctant to push his 3.5 Khrushchev's heavy emphasis on Body president at Notre Dame," But Western observers in the million soldiers, sailors and airmen intercontinental missiles. Buchignani said, "and Mike Coren Soviet capital expected no immedi­into military adventures. By some The ruddy faced marshal, a close handled it from there on." ate effect on the abilities of Soviet accounts, he initially opposed the friend of Communist party leader 
Gassman contacted Coren yes­iced the letter when he arrived in 
and East European forces. Czechoslovak invasion that crushed Leonid I. Brezhnev, was an expert terday afternoon and explained his 
"I don't think there will be a the liberalizing policies of Alex­at squeezing appropriations from confusion. Coren then agreed to 
ripple in ongoing plans or poli­ander Dubcek. his civilian superiors. cies," one specialist said. With Grechko's death, there areuse Gassman's name only as an 



.... -... 
·" 
Notre Dame senior civil engineers, Mike Lombard and Brian Kelly, vainly attempt to paddle to victory in the annual Concrete Canoe Race sponsored by the American Society of Civil Engineers held at the University of Illinois last weekend. Notre D.1me finished far bt>hind in the field, with the University of Akron, Illinois and Purdue claiming the top spots. [Photo by Tom Paulius] 
Student Life survey results: we want co-ed housing 
by John O'Donnell co-ed living, while only 9 percent of to be part of the "fighting, drinking Staff Reporter' the senior males and 15 percent of Irish." Forty-one percent drink Results from the Student Life the senior women refused. beer because there is "nothing Council (SLC) survey released "It is interesting to point out," better to do at Notre Dame." indicated a strong majority of Van Tassel observed, "that of the Another 60 percent drink in order students in favor of co-ed living. 45 percent who have had first-hand to become more sociable. Sixty· 
According to Ed Van Tassel, experience of co-ed living, the nine percent frequently drink be­chairman of the Co-Ed Housing students who are in favor of co-ed cause they enjoy the taste. Finally. Committee, nearly 80 percent of dorms outnumber the students who 40 percent drink in order to become the 700 people surveyed favored are against by a ratio of 8 to I.'' "mellow," while 35 percent admit some kind of co-ed living arrange­Along these lines, a total of 94 to drinking in order to get drunk. ment. The males showed a more percent agreed that co-ed dorms Eighty-two percent of the stud­liberal preference in the co-ed would promote interaction, with 81 ents indicate that they drink more 
. ...,.... . ­
breakdown, with their primary percent indicating that co-ed dorms 
--­preference being a room by room would present a more natural living arrangement among co-eds. Fe­situation. males were more in favor of a Concerning the religious aspect, floor-by-floor type of arrangement. approximately one-fifth of the stud­
ents felt that co-ed dorms would be Most favor co-ed living inconsistent with the Notre Dame Catholic behavior. However, 60 Overall, 79 percent of those percent of the females said they surveyed would choose to live in a would enjoy greater personal safe­co-ed dorm. Nearly 25 percent of ty. In addition, 69 percent of the the freshmen males and 33 percent students felt that damage would 
refused decrease and male-female relations be enhanced under co-ed living conditions. 
Twenty-nine percent of those surveyed admitted that parents would be opposed to co-ed living. Concerning other items, 65 percent felt that Notre Dame should have a wider variety of choices of where and how to live. Nearly 80 percent approved a twenty-four hour visit­ED VAN TASSEling schedule between sexes. In addition, 63 percent said they or less the same since coming to would like to see husband and wife Notre Dame. Nevertheless, 80 per­teams designated as rector!> of cent do not feel obligated to drink, halls. yet 83 percent agree that the Notre 
Dame students place a high value Drinking results on drinking. 

the observer Tuesday, April 27, 1976 
---News Briefs--­
1=:::::::::=:::::::=::::::::::-===-::-:::::-==----International 
New assembly, new constitution 
BANGKOK, Thailand--National Assembly members who were elected in Vietnam Sunday will meet within 60 days to adopt a new constitution and ratify the reunification of the North and South, according to Vietnamese officials. The South fell to the Communists a year ago in a military collapse described in a new report by a top North Vietnamese general, Van Tien Dung, as having startled the Communist legions by its suddenness. 
Ouster of Communists 
LISBON, Portugal--The way was open yesterday for ouster of Moscow-line Communists from the Portuguese government for the first time in two years, following parliamentary elections. Pressure mounted for a center-left coalition under Socialist leadership to counter political instability threatened by the results of Sunday's vote and all major parties rejected any coalition with the Communists. 
Face the issues 
LUSAKA, Zambia--Secretary of State Henry A. Kissinger took his 
African tour to Zambia today and said it was time to face the issues . 
of independence, majority rule and racial justice in southern Africa. 
1:::====::::::=:===::::::=::::::::=::::::::=:============National 
Mine hearings resume 
WHITESBURG, Ky.--A U.S. Interior Department panel was to resume hearings today in its probe ofthe Letcher County, Ky., mine disaster in which 26 men were killed last month. The panel, headed by federal Mining Enforcement and Safety Administration 'chief Robert Barrett, is investigating the cause of two explosions at the Scotia Coal Co.'s No. 1 Black Mountain mine at Oven Fork. 
Democrats campaign 
PIDLADELPIDA--Rival Democrats Jimmy Carter, Henry M. Jackson and Morris K. Udall wooed Pennsylvania voters at subway stops, factory gates, the lunch table and the Liberty Bell yesterday, the eve of a presidential primary election that could shape the rest of the campaign. Each man said he would do well enough to help his quest for the Democratic presidential nomination. 
Bill to expand Dunes 
WASHINGTON--Legislation was introduced in the Senate yester­day to expand Indiana Dunes National Lakeshore along the lines of a House-passed measure. Indiana's two Democratic senators, Birch Bayh and Vance Hartke, co-sponsored the Senate legislation to expand the existing boundaries of the area by more than 4,650 acres. 
~-On Campus Today-.. 
12-3 pm 1 pm 1:30pm 
3:30 pm 
4:30pm 
4:30 pm 
6 pm 6 pm 
7 pm 
J1 9 
--senior class trip deposits, Iafortune ballroom 
--baseball, ball state at n.d. double header 
--lecture, "monument in landscape: the design of the national capital," by james dougherty, n.d., sponsored by n.d. forever learning institute and south bend panel of american women, forever learning institute, 107 greenlawn ave. 
--meeting, college of engineering college council meeting, room 150 cce. 
--seminar, "the littoral flora and metabolic stability in freshwater systems" by dr. robert g. wetzel, kellogg biological station, michigan state univ., sponsored by biology depL, galvin aud. 
--lecture, "worker management in economic devel­opment: peru," by peter knight, cornell univ., sponsored by economics dept., library aud. 
--play, "the balcony," administration building. 
--concert, varsity band lawn concert, sp~nsored by music depL, rain date is May 2, lawn m front of administration bldg. 
--film, "the spook who sat by the door," sponsored by black studies dept., library aud. 
& --film, "young frankenstein" sponsored by student pm union, engineering aud. 
7 :30 pm  --meeting, rathskellar  charismatic  prayer  meeting,  Iafortune  
8 pm  --recital, vocal trio recital, rust-mcginleysponsored by music dept., little theatre  -sullivan,  

8:15 pm --cameo recital, prof. sue h. seid, organ, maria parnell viola call 6211 for reservations, room 204 hoynes' hall ' 
midnite --the album hour, wsnd 640 am 
12:15 am --nocturne night flight, wsnd 88.9 fm 
Hearst undergoes 
treatment for collapsed lung 
REDWOOD CITY, Calif. (AP)­Patricia Hearst was transferred yesterday from the hospital where she had undergone treatment for a collapsed lung she suffered in her jail cell two weeks ago. 
There was no immediate word where the convicted heiress was taken. 
Miss Hearst, 22, was removed from Sequoia Hospital by federal marshals shortly before 11 a.m., associate administrator Arthur Fap Faro said. 
Doctors for the young heiress said last week it was doubtful she could travel by air for another 30 days. She had been scheduled for transfer to a federal corrections facility in San Diego for 90 days of psychological tests before her final sentencing on the bank robbery conviction. 
the top ten  
1. BEPPO GUIDO  49,313  
2. "Ace" Harris  32,675  
3. J.J. DeCoursey  21,064  
4. Mike Sazdanoff  20,  
5. Jim Augustine  7,470  
6. Orest Deychakiwski  7,260  
7. "Hips" Presley  7,096  
8. Annette Grande  5,975  
9. "Howdy" Castellini  5,871  
The ugliest man on campus.  
10. "Moose" Mulcahy  5,060  


UGLY MAN 
As promised, the U.M.O.C. Committee herewith submits the list of Notre Dame's ugliest. "Congratulations" and thanks to Plaque Winners Beppo Guido, "Ace" Harris, J .J. DeCoursey and Mike Sazdanoff, and all you other ugly-men. ' 
Academic Council votes to end graduate education department 
by Mike Villani Staff Reporter 
The University has discontinued the Department of Graduate Stud­ies in Education effective August 31, 1977. 
The Academic Council's decision was made last night along with a 
decision  to  transfer  the  depart­ 
ment's  counseling  psychology  
program  to  the  Department  of  

Psychology. The vote of 40-13 was based on high costs of instruction, a narrow­ness of program and a quality and quality of prospective students insufficient to sustain a graduate program up to the University's standards. The merger of the counseling psychology program with the De­partment of Psychology has been under discussion since March 1974. The merger will locate all psychol­ogy programs in a single depart­ment. It will provide ''for the retention and academic strengthen­ing of a doctoral program in counseling psychology that has been approved by the American Psychological Association.'' Professor Robert E. Gordon, vice-president of the academic council, commented, "In many respects, the situation that led to the department's discontinuance was regrettable. However, the council's decision was in the best interests of the University. Advocating the dismissal was 
Dr. Isabel Charles, dean of the
College of Arts and Letters. "Any alternative to re-establish the De­
partment of Graduate studies in 
Education would be too costly for the academic council to advocate," Charles said. 
She further cited that the theol­
~!~n~e!a::~~~td~~~11~:~h:e~=~h~~ 
(*The Observer1 t ~:o~-~~~;o~~5MIA ,;g~T~ ~RE~NDW~~~~A~RA t 
Night Editor: Martha fFOR APPOINTMENT f Fanning 
Ass't Night Editor: Bill Rivard Layout Staff: Mike Massetti ~---------------~ 
Day Editor: Mary Mungo­van & Bobo Copy Reader: Pat Cole 
!* 1
1 Who loves ya, 1
Editorials: JS Sports: Paul Stevenson Typists: Mel Celeste, Tess 
1
l 
Clemens, Night Controller: TJ _Harlan) 
I 
The Obserller is pubIished N'o'lday through A"iday aid .....eekly during the surrmer session, eXCEPt during the exam; aid vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of the Univ. of Notre Dame aid St. MaYs College. Subsaiptions may be purchased for S18 ($10 per semester) fro~ The Observer, Box Q, Notre Dame, lndii!IUI 46556. Second Class postage paid, Notre Dame, IN 46556. 
I
I I
1 
I 
\ 
ic character of the University as it the Department of Psychology ex­was done in the education depart­cept for Professor James. M.Lee ment. who will be on terminal leave from 
The University said that students the University for one year. Lee now completing M.A.'s and Ph.D's was not available for comment. in the department will be able to With the department's dismissal finish their degree work. came the suspension of its publica­
· The faculty of the dismissed tion, The Notre Dame Journal of department will be absorbed into _Education. 

f
tt'RMANDO IS NOW LOCATED NEAR CAMPUS JO GIVE YOU THE CUl OR STYLE YOU WANTt 
• 
't c::!fvnando'1­ 3a'tb::'l  ~  ~--lfcli'l  d)tuL~ J  Sf;oj2  f  
v PEN c:; IJ-. DAYS A WEEK PERSONALIZED SERVJC£  ~ f  
t  t  

baby? 1 
The Observer is having a staff barbecue 
I 
next Saturday afternoon, 2:30 to 6 pm. 
I 
That same evening, at 9 pm, we will hold our annual staff party. 
I 
Also, we are ordering staff T-Shirts. 
I 
T-Shirts will cost $2. Use the clip-out on the right 
I 
to RSVP for THE BARBECUE or THE PARTY, or to order T-Shirts. 
I 
Just because we love ya. 1 
~---------------' 

South Bend fliers flyUnitedfrom Michiana Regional ort. 
-
5
Tuesday, April 27, 1976 the observer 
Rubberworkers vs. 'Big Four': checkmate 
CLEVELAND (AP) -Negotia­tors resumed talks yesterday after a weekend recess in efforts to end a six-day strike by 60,000 rubber 
workers  against  the  nation's  big  
four tiremakers.  
But union officials said  no  im­ 

mediate settlement was in sight and the two sides still were far apart on wage issues and a cost-of-living adjustment based on inflation. 
Jake Miller, chief negotiatorfor th e Firestone Tire & Rubber Co. section of the United Rubber Workers, said the company would offer some revisions and new proposals on pensions, insurance and hospitalization. 
But Miller added that "we're still a long way off" on the $1.65 cents an hour wage increase the union is demanding in the tirst year of the contract and the $1.15 Firestone had offered over a three­year pact. The URW selected Firestone as the target for obtain­ing an industrywidc settlement. 
UHW wages average $5.50 an hour plus $3.55 in fringe benefits for a total of $9.05. The URW has asked that the package be increas­

measurments will be taken for 
CAPS and GOWNS 
Tuesday April 27 
and 
Wednesday April J.S 
between 
9:00AM­4:30PM 
ed by 42 percent. 
Talks resumed for the first time without the presettce of Peter Bommarito, international URW president, who was in Geneva, Switzerland, for a conference with the International Federaton of 
Chemical  and  General  Workers  
Unions(IFC).  
That organization  was  mapping  

worldwide strategy in support of the strike against Firestone, Good­year Tire & Rubber Co., B.F. Goodrich Co. and Uniroyal Inc. 
Under discussion at the two-day meeting was a two-pronged plan that includes an immediate end to excess overtime work and measur­es to prevent replenishment of U.S. stockpiles from abroad, said ICF Secretary General Charles Levin­son. 
Levinson said the international labor group also planned boycotts of the Big Four's products in some countries. 
Levinson said Brazil, Mexico and Australia affiliates of the six million member organization already com­mitted themselves to whatever action might be decided formally at the meeting. 
The affiliate in Brazil, he saki, 
• already has complained about a sudden increase in overtime in subsidiary plants of Firestone, Goodyear and Uniroyal, which he said was "obviously for the pur­pose of stockpiling." 
In Tokyo, about 40,000 Japanese rubber workers planned to strike today for higher wages in a move a spokesman said was unrelated to the U.S. strike. 
As the negotiations resumed, Firestone and Goodyear, in what was described as an unprecedented move to put economic pressure on the union, announced they had suspended Supplemental Unemp­loyment Benefits to about 1,400 rubber workers who were laid off before the strike began at midnight on April 20. 
·'This is a pressure tactic, we arcn 't denying that," said Mort Leggett, a spokesman for Good-· year, "but so is a strike." 
Meanwhile, automakers said yesterday they were sticking to the robust production schedules set for ·this month and next, adding they still have two to three weeks' supply of tires and other rubber 
Experienced 
South Bend residents who fly a lot can tell you. Taking off from Michiana Regional Airpot1 is a better idea than driving to Chicago's O'Hare Field. 
To begin with, the average South Bend home is so much closer to Michiana than it is to O'Hare. So your trip is that much shorter. Those extra minutes can make a big difference when you're on a tight schedule. 
Flying from right here in South Bend can save you money. too. Because air fare to United's 
components. 
"If we do run out of certain rubber parts, it still won't shut us down," a Ford Motor Co. spokes­man said. "We have the flexibility to juggle operations." 
But a prolonged strike was expected to force the carmakers to curtail production at some point at a time industry sales are booming and the economy in general is recovering from a recession year. 
Goodyear announced yesterday its sales set a record in the first quarter and produced about twice the profits of the first three months of 1975. It said earnings totaled $43.7 million or 60 cents per share on sales of $1.45 billion, compared with 1975's first-quarter earnings of $22.1 million or 31 cents per share on sales of nearly $1.24 billion, the previous record. 
The URW said earlier it expected strong first-quarter results and it felt the companies could afford the cost-of-living adjustment the union failed to win because of the federal wage-price controls in effect during the 1973 negotiations. 
Goodrich, which announced its results the dav before the strike began, reported the past first quarter earnings nearly tripled 
those of 1975 
While talks centered on Fire­stone, the No. 2 U.S. tire producer, negotiations continued with Good­rich in Columbus and Uniroyal in New York. 
~--THE 
RESUME PLACE 
2 5 8 112 X l l 
~/\(; BOND Only $2.55 
insty-prints 
203 N. MAIN SO.BEND, IND 
289-6977 
cities in the East is less from Michiana than it is from O'Hare. And only a few dollars more from Michiana to the West. Even parking fees are lower here in South Bend. 
For reservations. call your Travel Agent. The travel pro who can give you all the figures, help you plan your trip. and book you a flight to any one of the 61 cities United serves from South Bend. Or call United at 232-4811. Partners in Travel with Western International Hotels. 
The friendly skies ofyour land. 




-------------·--­
A look inside the CIA 
by David C. Martin Some of the recommendations, 
Associated Press Writer such as creation of new executive branch committees to oversee intel­ligence operations and formally 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The approve all sensitive activities, United States is spending billions already have been put into effect as of dollars on spy operations, inclu­part of President Ford's intelli­ding some that are self-defeating, gence reorganization plan. have misled the public and have The committee also recommen­threatened the independence of ded passing laws barring CIA use churches, universities and the of American journalists and clergy­press, the Senate Intelligence Com­men and urged that no scholars be mittee said yesterday. used for intelligence purposes 
However, the committee backed without the knowledge of senior off from revealing the exact amount university officials. of intelligence spending after hear­The panel stopped short of ing a last-minute appeal from CIA recommending a ban on all covert Director George Bush that disclo­operations, saying instead the Uni­Dr. Isabel Charles and professor Donald Barret presented awards to 
sure of the figure would damage ted States needed to maintain such students last night at the Sociology and Anthropology Banquet. 
national security. The panel voted a capability for use in the event of r·-a~~ Seventeen students received Alpha Kappa Delta Honor Society 
6 to 5 to Jet the full Senate decide grave threat to national security.Certificates. (Photo by Chris Smith) 
whether to disclose the figure. Ninety-seven additional recom­mendations are to be issued by the 
~ GoLF ~NTER '! 
Report Concluded panel when it releases a separate 
report on domestic intelligence
Sociology Dept. 
~ .. 
In a 651-page report climaxing a operations later this week. IS-month investigation, the commi­
~0 
i
ttee said it found "duplication, 
"NIGHT LIGHTED''
hold awards banquet 
waste, inertia and ineffectiveness 
9 HOLE • PAR 3 GOLP tOURS!
in the intelligence community,'' by 
Drl"'n• llon11• II Hole Mlnlofvre
is becoming increasingly competi­
by John Pandolfi but at the same time emphasized 
' Open Down Til 10:00 PM ~ 
tive.
Staff reporter that ''it found much that was good 
LOCATED us 33 AT IRONWOOD 
I
Despres further commented on and proper."
the lack of guidance afforded 
The report, also revealed the
Sociology majors at tlte present
The first annual Sociology and CIA: 
I'=all.!.~!'!! I I
time. He added that students
Anthropology Banquet was held --Has conducted some 900 major
should be taught to pursue opport­
~
last night at Morrow's Restaurant covert action projects around th e 
17U LINCOLN WAY EAST SO. liN~ unities which exist in the job .......................
in Mishawaka. world since 1961; ~ ~. market.
Ed Singer, president of the --Has been responsible for the Sociology Club which sponsored Following Despres' speech, Dr. public:ation of more than 1,000 r-NOWOPEN Isabel Charles, Dean of the College
the banquet, acted as master of books many of which were reviewed 
KELLEY'S
of Arts and }etters and Professor
ceremonies for the evening. The and marketed in the United States;
Donald Barrett, undergraduate di­
first guest speaker was Dr. Leo --Has planted stories in foreign 
SPORTLAND
rector of the Sociology Department, 
Despres, chairman of the Sociolo­publications that have ben unwit­
presented Ed Singer and 16 other
gy-Anthropology department. tingly picked up and circulated by 
U.S. 31 NILES
students with Alpha Kappa Delta
Despres commented on the job American news organizations;
Honor Society certificates. They ...............................................-....-.....•
possibilities for Sociology and An­--Until recently used about SO 
also named Katherine Blatz as the
thropology majors. His talk emph­journalists and other employees of • •
outstanding Sociology undergradu­• •
asized the necessity of a college U.S. news organizations along with 
education for the social science ate student and Michael Lakour as a handful of American clergymen •• •• 
fields. "Not only does a degree the outstanding Anthropology und­and missionairies as secret agents • •• open the way for job market ergraduate student. abroad; •.. • opportunities," he said, "but also After the presentation of these --Is currently using several hund­• •
•
aw3.rds, Singer made a special
it provides a strong basis for red American university administ­• 
knowledge in the specific career presentation to Barrett for his help rators, professors and graduate ••and encouragement in the forma­
one wishes to enter.'' He also students for intelligence and propa­• stated that the opportunity market tion of the Sociology Club. ganda purposes, and •• • TUESDAY 27 & WEDNESDAY 28 --Operates a network of business 
• 
ENGINEERING AUDITORIUM
enterprises with assets totalling • $57 million to provide cover and 
logistical support for agents a­
Student Congress 
'············································· 
broad. 
APPLICATIONS NOW BEING
Committee Makes 
holds first meeting 
Recommendations 
ACCEPTED FOR '76-'77 
objectives for next year, including 
The report also made 86 recom­
(Continued from page 3· centralization of ticket distribution 
SMC SOCIAL COMMISSION 
mendations designed to increase
for all t:ampus functions. He also
At the-end of Byrne's talk, which the efficiency and accountability of 
described a plan to purchase 
Positions Open Are:
he described as "my last opportun­U.S. intelligence activities. 
refrigerators for student rental, aity to speak in public," he thanked change from the past policy of the student government representat­

SECRETARY-TREASURER 
Student Union acting as a rentalives for getting involved. "If you agent for another company. If can understand the system, you implemented,Ricci said the opera­
SPECIAL EVENTS DIRECTOR 
can work to change it," he said. 
tion would greatly increase Student J.P. Russell, chairman of the Union revenues. 
MOVIE COORDINATOR 
Hall Presidents Council, spoke about his organization and its relation to the congress. He de­
PUBLICITY MANAGER 
fined the HPC as ''an open, 
~--~ ~ir 'Richard's ®
service-oriented organization.'' 
f"> BARBER STYLING 
HALL REPS. 
Russell pointed out that students with complaints often come to their hall presidents first, and said that 
For More Information
~~~~~---------­
UNISEX HAIR STYLING
working with the congress will help 
Call Mary at 4-4419 or 4-5192
hall presidents refer students to the proper groups and will avoid 
129 DIXIEWAY SOUTH ROSEt.ANO 
APPLICATIONS MUST BE SUBMITTED
duplication of effort. The final presentation came from 
TO LE MANS BY MIDNIGHT
IN PORTAGE RfALTY BUILDING 277.0734 






....................------------------------------~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~:T:u:e:sd:a:y:.:A:p:ril:2:7:,:1~9-7:6:::::::::t:h::e:~-o~--b~s:-e~-~r:v~~~~----~7 ---...., 
UAW vice-president 
,_. 
to speak on labor 
Classified Ads 
NOTICES 1966 MGB-GT tan, 4 speed, radio,
Irving Bluestone, Vice President the National Quality of Work 
wire wheels with knock-off. Good
of the United Auto Workers Inter­Center in Washington, D.C. 
Washington, D.C. Club Baggage Babysitter wanted for summer to condition, rare collector's Item.
national, will speak on "The De­Since beginning his career as an 
Truck to Bethesda, Maryland care for 3 boys, age 7 to 9. Good pay $1200 or best offer.
sign of Humanistic Work: What employee with the Hyatt Bearing 
Deposit required before May 5. Call and close to N.D. Hours: 7 am. 4
Can Labor Do?" in room 122 of the Division, General Motors Corpora­
Rob 233-1797 (3 :00 pm . 6:00 pml or pm, Mon-Fri. If interested, call Smith Corona electric typewriter.
Hayes-Healy Center tomorrow at tion in Harrison, New Jersey, 
Monica 287-8506 (6 :00 pm . 9:00 Kevin at 8593. Auto. return. Ex. condition 1 1'!11 yrs
3:30p.m. Bluestone has held a variety of 
pm) 
old. 5 yr. guarantee. Call 284-4744.
His presentation concludes the positions in the UAW. He was 
Wanted: ride to Toledo this week­
series on Humanistic Work Design active in the Local Union 511 as 
RUGBY SHIRTS IDENTICAL end. Call Peggy, 6661. Must sell stereo, one month old.
which has been sponsored this year Chairman of the Bargaining Com­
SHIRTS AS THE CHEERLEADERS
by the College of Business Admin­mittee, Chairman of the Educa­
Pioneer SX-950 PL·l12D, Omega FOR $13.00 · IDEAL FOR GIFTS. 4-way speakers. Call 1623.
istration under a grant from the tional Commitee and Editor of the 
FOR RENTALSO, FOOTBALL T-SHIRTS IN
and H Foundation. local's newspaper. In 1961, he Educated at the City College of became Administrative Assistant 
NAVY OR YELLOW FOR $3.50. 
Homes completely furnished rang. PERSONALS 
CALL DAVID BOSSY 277-0948.
New York and the University of to Walter Reuther, a post which he 
ing from 2 to 7 bedrooms. Call Mrs.
Bern in Switzerland, Bluestone is a held unti11970. Mr. Bluestone was 
Humbarger, 234-9364. Dear Mrs. Whelan,Accurate, fast typing. Hours 8:00
member of the National Trade named Director of the UA W Gen­
I understand you only read the am to 8:00 pm. Mr~. Donoho,
Union Council for Human Rights, a eral Motors Department in 1970 
personals. This is my last day on the4 bedroom suburban house 3 miles
232-0746.
lifetime member of the NAACP, and Vice President in 1972. 
job so I thought I'd better put one in
from N.D. Completely furnished,
President of Detroit's educational The address is open to the public 
for you to read today. Say "hi" to
available for one year beginningSTEREO COMPONENTS, 20 · 40
television Channel 56, and a mem­free of charge. 
everyone at the office. JoeJune 1st, 1976. Rent $350. Callpercent discount. All qualify na."le 
brands. RMS Audio 321 S. Main. 
ber of the Advisory Committee of 
283-7215 or 272-6970 (evenings). 
M.F. 
288-1681 M-F, 12:00.6:00. 
II could be worse. It could be May
For Summer Rental. Super 4 bed­17th. 
dissertations spec­room fully furnished house near
Linda's Letters · Jdf-Eddy. Washer, dryer, all util­
ialists, typing at student rates. 
Is your club interested in a conces­itie!> $175. 234-1972.
287-5193. 
sion stand during next fall's football season? Call Student Activities,
Typing professionally done . thesis, 2 rooms $40 a month. 233-1329. 
7308, now. 
dissertations, resumes, term pap. 
ers. Barb, 259-4894. Milliken Rentals, 282-2089, H.O. Felts, Happy 19th! Willy,
233-5833. Houses and apartments 
Tom, B, Borge I & II, Lus, Zimm,
Typing 35 cents a page. Call Dan, available tor June or Sept. 
Charlie, Joe, Jerry, Tom, Mark,
272-5549. 
Dave, Dan and Mike. 
2 to 7 bedroom houses for 3 month 
Typing wanted . pick up and summer rentals. All furnished. Call 
A. Hun and Associate: you success­
delivery. 683-7759. 288-6359 after 6 pm. 
fully completed debaucery 153. Care to register for 253, to be held at the Sailors openings for two exper­Student Housing off-campus. Close 
Dunes? Prerequisites: whipped
ienced crew members to help race to Notre Dame. House at 1225 E. 
cream and coke. Eve & Associate. 
winning 34 foot sloop on Lake Campeau St. 5 bedrooms, living 
Michigan. Racing at Michigan City room, kitchen, bath, fully furnished, Allan, Hope you feel lots better! 
most Sundays from May 15th to washer & dryer, trash removal, Keep smilin! Luv, L.A. 
Labor Day. Call 234-1056, Mon-Fri. security. Call after 4 pm. Phone 
232-7180. Winter or summer stud­ND-SMC Council for the Retarded.
YEAR END SALE AT FLANNER ents. Banquet Fri. 6:30-9:30. We need
RECORDS! Purchase any order
Quick starts. Sure stops. 
help. Tom Harbin 287-6673, Kathyalbum for our everyday low price of House for summer rent. Excellent
Nimble-footed security in the 
McGlynn 288 4315.
$4.55 and you can buy any stock condition. Call 1292.
style of the pros. PRO-Keds. 
album for only $4.05 or buy any 
K. of C. spring p icn lc lhis Saturday.
stock album for only $4.30. We have House for summer. Rated superior, Sign-up lists and further details at
the new America, Seals and Crofts, furnished, W & D, very cheap. Call the Council. 
Wear PRO-Keds Court King-
Paul McCartney, Led Zeppelin, and 1760.
• Lace-to-toe design for 
Peter Frampton, and more! In
firm, adjustable fit 
Happy birthday, M.P. You Frenchstock!! Come to 807 Flanner or call SM C professor desires 1 or 2
• Sturdy, long-wearing 
horror.
1488. bedroom home or apartment to rent. 
army duck uppers 
Please call 284-4095 8-5. 
Richard 'Dick' Duffy alias Junior
• Flexible shank 
N.Y. Met Club Baggage Truck to Froggy wears pantyhose. S. F.
• Reinforced toe guard 
Long Island . Loading May 8,9,10. 3 bedroom furnished apartment,
• Ventilating, large 
Send $5.00 deposit to Doug Schu­half of a duplex, deposit. lease, for Hey Seniors, want to "Get Lucky"
lacing eyelets 
macher, 1315 Elwood Ave., South fall term. Call 255-3205. ask a date to the Senior Class
Bend 46628. For info call 288-0498. Formal. Monday, May 10.
Summer sublet. 1 bedroom unfurn. 
Play better tennis! Rackets restrung ished apt. Rent negotiable. 288-9646 Class of 1977 -vote Korhumel,
to desired tensions, with nylon $7, 
Storino, Hyde, Mellinghausen!!
gut $13. Picked up and delivered. 6 bedroom and 3 bedroom furnished 
Vote Wednesday!
Call B.J. 289-8948. houses. Contact Mr. Gatto, 234-6688 
Lemans Hall: Vote Jaworski and
Will do typing, experienced. Term Near campus 1 large apt. 2 or 3 turn.
COURT KING 
Libert. president and vice preident,
papers, etc. Call 233-8512. utilities. Two kitchenettes 1 person, 
April 28th.
$10.95 
turn. utilities. Summer only, morn. 
ings or evenings. 272-6174 LOST & FOUND Fifth year student looking for house
NOTRE DAME 
and housemates off campus in fall.
Furnished house near campus tor 3 Lost: a Longines Jubilee watch with Charlie 8698.
or 4 available for Summer and Fall
BOOKSTORE 
leather band, regarded as a keep­272-6174. Apt. call mornings or 
sake, has engraved on the back "To Susan Foley wears boxer shorts.
evenings.John, from Aunt Helen, June 1974" Call 1612, 138 Dillon. Reward Need a place to stay in Chicago this offered. June, July & August. Any informa
FOR SALE lion will help. Call Gregg at 1615. 
Lost: Gold watch between Grotto
PRO-Keds 
Furniture for Sale! Furnished apt. at and Grace Hall or student parking Am leaving the University, and not I
Turtle Creek . must sell furniture. lot. Call Ann 4-4343. alone, no tenure. I want to say
You can store it at fieldhouse till goodbye to the best student body in 
next year. Call 277-0103. 
Lost: Ladies silver watch in vicinity the world and tell the faculty that 
of Nickie's. Great sentimental value. whenever the doors of Auschwitz 
BASKETBALL 
Need a refrigerator for next year?Please call 57 41 or 5368. open for one of us little people they
Still have plenty left for a super
Drop-ins 
open tor them, too. P. Fenelon,
price! Call Biv 6891. Lost: light brown wall!, between pay Reference Univ. Library. 
cafeteria and 2nd floor library, 
For Sale . Dual l229Q changersometime last week. It found please Big Blue Eyes, How about it! S. T.
$180. Call Len 289-8990. Less than 1 return, I need I D, license, etc. Call Me 
yr. old · excellent condition. Bob, 234-0267. 
Red Bud Music Festival
1973 Fiat 128 SL for sale. 29,000 Found: pair of glasses by the lake. Sat, May 8th, 10 hours of Bluegrass,
miles. ! 1 ,300 call 277-2420 after 7 :00 Scott on stem. Call 1715. R & B, and soft rock. 8 bands from 
pm. Chicago, Kalamazoo, E. Lansing, 
South Bend. Consessions and beerFiat 128 4 door '73, as new. Call 
WANTED with ID's. RBF on 200 acres 2 miles
Fernando after 6 p.m. 277-0188. 
north of Buchanan, Michigan on 
Wanted: one small refrigerator. Call R. B. Trail. Tickets 3.50 advance,
For sale: two matching bedspreads · 4104. 4.00 date. Availabile thru Boogie,
blue, green, yellow and white Records, Record Joint, Vegetable 
..
striped muslin. Machine washable. 
Need ride to Phil. or N.J. area May Buddies, Suspended Chord.
ROYAL 
Excellent condition. Call Moor Jean 10 or later. Call Cathy 4-5349.
LOCUT 
. 4-5486. Attention, men of Notre Darnel CR, 
specially Imported from Louisville,
Wanted: one soul strutting partner Brown and gold shag perfectly cut will be available In South Bend for 
$12.95 
tor Becky. tor Regina single. Also good for any 
only 3 more weeks! Absolutely no
NOTRE DAME 
other small room. Call 4-4226. 
.. I
offers accepted alter May 12th.
BOOKSTORE 

8 
the observer Tuesday, April 27, 1976 
Robert Cahill retires as NO's athletic business manager 
by Paul Stevenson new people all the time." responsible for athletic activities The familiarity Cahill gained in with regards to accommodations, 
Notre Dame Stadium did not his six years at Notre Dame proved travel, etc. exist when Martin Robert Cahill, beneficial in his final semester of Since 1969, Cahill has been retiring business manager of ath­his senior year. His chance came in serving as business manager and letics, arrived in South Bend. That 1934 when Elmer Layden replaced has been an aid in the development was 48 years ago when Cahill Hunk Anderson as head football of the Notre Dame community. emerged on campus via the South coach. Herb Jones, assistant ath­' Although he is preparing for retire­Bend trolley. letic business manager at that ment, Cahill is also preparing for 
Cahill came to Notre Dame in time, had taken a liking to Cahill, this fall's football season. Cahill is July of 1928, just having graduated and Jones mentioned Cahill's name responsible for insuring that all from high school in Dixon, Illinois to Layden, when it came to his accommodations are made for this at the age of 16. He hoped to fill a attention that Layden was search­season. summer job at the University ing for a secretary. ''Getting ready for football is before enrolling for the fall semes­Layden hired Cahill, and Cahill something that we usually do about ter. put in ten hours a day during his this time of year," Cahill remark­
That summer job materialized final semester at Notre Dame. ed. "Doing things now will also into two full years working as a After his graduation in 1934, the save my successor a lot of trouble.'' secretary to the registrar. "I was Four· Horsemen hired Cahill full­CahiJI's replacement has yet to only 16 and had never been away time. be named, but that is a task that from home." Cahill stated. "I was In 1941, Layden moved on to will take a great deal of contempla­scared; I had some experience as a become the first Commissioner of tion. Cahill's responsibilities are so typist, but had a very limited the National Football League and diversified that someone who is background as a stenographer. asked Cahill to join him. At the well versed in his duties will have 
Then in the fall of 1930. Cahill same time, Jones was appointed to be found. began his freshman year financed business manager and he asked Robert Cahill will be hard to 
.... through a University scholarship . Cahill to remain as his assistant. replace, a man that has done a lot '·I was very lucky to have been on Although Cahill decided to re­for Notre Dame. He is a past scholarship. being in school during main at Notre Dame, he did so after president of the College Athletic the depression," Cahill reflected. a brief stay in the service. Cahill Business Managers' Association, "I still had to work part-time, but I served in the Navy from December and was named Business Manager was able to attend school, and that of 1942 to October of 1945, starting of the Year, the highest honor was what was important. My as a lieutenant junior grade and bestowed by the organization, in parents could not afford to support finishing as a lieutenant command­January of 1974. Cahill is also a and he has thoroughly enjoyed I couldn't be happier." me. so the money I received from er. past president of the Notre Dame them. "I consider myself a very This Saturday, May 1, Cahill's my part·time employment I sent Cahill's position under Jones Alumni Club of St. Joseph Valley fortunate man to have been assoc­friends will present a "Salute to home to help them." was that of ticket manager, a and was selected by this group as iated with as great an institution as Bob Cahill" dinner honoring him. 
Cahill lived in many halls during position which he retained for 29 1963 "Notre Dame Man of the Notre Dame all these years," The dinner will be held after the his stay at Notre Dame. "We had years. Then, in 1969, when Jones Year.'' He received the same honor Cahill remarked. "I sort of fell into annual Blue-Gold game. and will 
to change halls, because we were died of a heart attack, Cahill was in 1971 by the Notre Dame Rock my career by chance. I majored in give Cahill's friends and associates put in them according to class," appointed to the title of business River Valley Club. foreign commerce, thinking I might a chance to pay tribute to Robert Cahill mentioned. "I enjoyed living manager. The years Cahill has spent at work in L'ltin America. As it turned Cahill for all he has done for Notre 
in a different atmosphere, meeting As business manager, Cahill is Notre Dame have been rewarding out, I never got off the campus. But Dame. 
Irish netters defeated by Ohio St.
*Observer 
by Tom Powanda Shahee, 6-3, 6-0 while number six the second set 7-6. Slager's victory saw Dave Wheaton take the first came at the hands of Houghton as 
The Notre Dame tennis team set in a 7-6 tie-breaker against Ron he won in straight sets, 6-3, 6-4. suffered its sixth loss of the season Sch~ake but easily win the second The final victory of the afternoon on Saturday as they were soundly 6-1. for the Irish came as Bruno defeated by Ohio State 7-2. The In the doubles action the Irish defeated Rick Ericksen of Iowa 6-2, 
Sports 
loss prevented the Irish from met with much the same success as 6-2. winning the triangular meet held Stehlik and Slager won by default The Irish record now stands at with Ohio State, Iowa and Notre over Ballard and Lambert in the 15-6. The next meet for Notre Dame. number one slot, Hainline teamed Dame is today as they travel to East 
The two winners for the Irish with O'Donnell to take number two Lansing, Michigan to face Michi­came in the second and third doubles 7-5, 7-6 over Coggins and gan State. The Irish return home on singles slots as Brian Hainline Ballard and Bruno partnered with Thursday as they will host IJJinois.
Tracksters await final meet 
continued his winning ways by Horan to defeat Bracci and Sha­Starting time will be 3:00 p.m. beating John Botica and captain heen easily 6-1, 6-2. The Irish tracksters divided their this weekend." Mike O'Donnell defeated Pedro In the afternoon, Notre Dame ND sailing team 
roster this past weekend. with six Saturday's meet at Michigan Gonzalez. Losing the first set, faced Iowa to complete the triang­members making the trip to the State is the final scheduled compet­Hainline took the second set in a ular match which had started the April competition Drake Relays and the remainder of ition for the Irish until the Central 7-6 tie-breaker and easily swept the da·; before. The Irish started where 
The Notre Dame sailing team has the squad going to the Ball State Collegiate Conference champion­third set 6-2. O'Donnell on the they had left off in the morning been busy this past month. On the 
Relays. At the Drake Relays, Notre ships later in May. other hand took the first set easily match as they went on to a 6-3 10-11 of the month, they went to Dame's four mile relay team posted 6-2 and then faltered by the same victory. 
Annapolis where they placed fifth 
a time of 16:49, only three seconds score in the second set. He clinched The Irish swept the doubles in a field of nine boats. This a victory with a 6-4 win in the third action never Iowa
off the school record. Jay Miranda Purdue out-races and gave a regatta, the Kennedy cup, was 
led off the Irish with a 4:09 mile set but the Irish could not come up chance to come back as Stehlik and boats. It was the
sailed in 44 ft. 
and was followed by Bill Allmen­NO womens' crew with any other victories and lost in Slager again took the first slot, national big boat championship.
dinger in 4:13. Jim Hurt in 4:14 and the final tally. defeating Rick Zussman and Jeff The Irish team, headed by Bill 
Jim Reinhart who anchored the It was a different story for the Schatzberg in identical sets 6-2,
by Eileen O'Grady Kostoff on the foredeck and Bill 
relay with a time of 4:13. Irish on Sunday, however. In the 6-2. O'Donnell and Hainline took
Women's Sports Editor Schneider on the wheel, ended up
Meanwhile at Ball State, several morning, NO took on Eastern three sets to defeat Doug Browne as the top team from the midwest. 
outstanding performances were Michigan in a dual match and shut and Jim Houghton losing the first Yale won in some very close racing. 
Notre Dame's women's crew
turned in by Irish thinclads. Pole­out the neighbors to the north 9-0. one 6-1 but taking the next two 7-5, On Easter weekend NO travelledteam travelled to Lafayette, Indi­Randy Stehlik soundly defeated
vaulter George Matteo cleared 6-4. In third slot Horan and Bruno to Ohio State where they captured aana last weekend, where they were
14'6" in tying for the lead while Cornell Ballard 7-5, 6-0. In the also won in identical sets as they third place. Both John Goodill both Jeff Anderson and the dis­defeated in a 1000 meter race by second singles slot, Hainline beat defeated Mark Morrow and Tom and Paul Makielski turned in some 
tance medley team notched second the Purdue team. Brian Lambert 6-1, 6-2. Third Kendziershi 6-4, 6-4. 
good light air racing performances. 
place finishes in their events. Due to a Jack of equipment at singles saw O'Donnell ofND defeat Stehlik and Slager also came up OSU took advantage of their home Anderson's came in the 1 00-yard Purdue, only the women's varsity Jeff Coggins 6-2, 6-4 while Rick with single victories with Stehlik waters to easily place first in a field dash with a time of 9.9 seconds team was able to compete, leaving Slager of the Irish was the victor in playing number one and Slager of 15. Miami of Ohio was second. 
while the medley crew of Jim the novice team on the shoreline. his match against Bob Bracci 6-1, playing number four. Stehlik de­This past weekend the hard core Zavertnik, Jerry Wills, Dan Horgan The Notre Dame boat grabbed 6-4. In the fifth slot, Tony Bruno feated Zussman 6-1 in the first set of the team was at Michigan for and Joe combined the lead at the start of the race. By gained a win as he defeated Rich before needing a tie-breaker to win
Strohman for area A elims. In some blusterythe 250 meter mark, past most ofsecond place. Distance runner Den­weather and a little rain they took nis Vanderkraats continued his the rough water, the Irish were Womens' tennis loses to Kalamazoo, second behind Michigan St. qualif­
ahead by one-half a boat length. As
string of sterling performances, ying for the midwest champioshipthey began to hit stronger headturning in a third place finish in the downs Wittenburg at Bowling Green which will be hosted by Notrewinds, the Purdue team moved up3,000 meter steeplechase. 
Dame at Eagle Lake next weekend. 
and began to challenge the Irish.
The Notre Dame track team by Anne Kelly Number one singles player Bet­Buzz Reynolds and his crews, Lou
They remained even until the
resumes its schedule this coming sey Fallon defeated Robin Ulsamer Krug and Bill Ryan, were superb inhalfway point, when Purdue seized 
Saturday as Coach Joe Piane and This past weekend, after losing 6-4, 6-0. In other singles play, Kam the "A" division as they tied John
the lead. Notre Dame challenged
his thinclads head to East Lansing to Kalamazoo on Friday, Notre Amato was victorious over Kim Walton, an All-American from
them at the sprint at the end, but
to face the Spartans of Michigan Dame's women's tennis team trav­Landon 6-2, 6-2 in straight sets. Michigan St.
the Boilermakers kept the lead and 
State. This will be the Irish's first eled to Bowling Green for a Sunday's match with the Univer­This weekend the top threewon the race by four seconds, with
dual meet of the season and is tri-match with Bowling Green and sity of Toledo was also canceled teams qualify for the collegiatea time of 4:12.
scheduled to get underway at four Wittenburg. due to rain. This Friday the team nationals on Island
held LongThe Irish will try to retain their
in the afternoon. Although the team was hurt by will play St. Mary's at St. Mary's Sound at the end of May. The
title this weekend, when they
Going into the dual meet, Piane rain interruptions and the loss of starting at 3:30. Saturday they will teams participating will be the
compete in the Midwwest sprints,
is confident of his team's chances second singles player Jane Lam­travel to Chicago for a match with best from the midwest and there 
against the rival Spartans: "We to be held in Madison, Wisconsin. 
mers, they managed to defeat Northwestern and on May third, should be some top-notch racing. 
For the last two years, they have 'iO I'm looking forward to some been the Midwest lightweight out in mid match with Bowling a match against Chicago 
l. fared rather well this past weekend Wittenburg 3-2, but were rained they will conclude their season with However, with home waters and 
home some experienced skippers, Notre solid performances to be turned in champions. · Green. 
State. Dame should have an advantage. 


