
server 
Tuesday, September 14, 1976 

Ford's abortion stand encourages Bishops 
by Barbara Breitenstein amendment that will give the Senior S~ Reporter maximum protection possible to the unborn' and protested the 
Although not "totally satisfied" acceleration of federally funded with president Ford's position on abortions during the Ford adminis­abortion. Roman Catholic officials tration." are "encourageq" after meeting The White House announced with Ford last week, a marked after meeting with -the Bishops that difference to the "disappointment" Ford had ordered a study by his 
felt with Carter after a similar domestic council to determine how conference two weeks a~o. to reduce the number of abortions performed with military, Medicaid
"The specific difference," Arch­and other government funds, to thebishop Joseph L. Bernardin of minimum required under SupremeCincinnati, spokesman for represe­Court Rulin~s. the Times reported. 
ntatives of the national conference "You have to remember that this of Catholic Bishops who met with goes in steps,·· Hernardm said.
both candidates states, "is an "that a constitutional amendmentunwillingness, at this time, on the does not come about overnight.
part of the Democratic candidate to First of all, there has to be somesupport any kind of constitutional support for the concept. There has amendment and a willingness on to be some initiative in order tothe part of the Republican candida­convince Congress that such ante to support_an amendment.''
last night, various student organizations attempted to beg, borrow or steal new members during amendment should come into exis­Activites Night held in laFaortune. [photo by Anne Fraze!] However, Hernardin stated that tence. After that you begin to talk an outright constitutional ban was about the specific kind of _..amend­
"A better approach" than either ment," he stated. 
candidates' stand, but said that the Bishops would make no endorsem­
"In saying that we are encoura­ent in the presidential election 
ged this does not mean that we are totally satisfied," Bernardin con­Ford stated in the meeting with cluded.

WASHINGTON (AP) -The National to be prepared for action, and Aerosol spray cans accounted for Bernardin, Terence Cardinal Cooke 
Academy of Sciences said yesterd­aerosol spray cans containing fluo­74 percent of the nearly 1.5 billion of New York and four other President Ford was reported to ay fluorocarbons in aerosol sprays rocarbons be labeled so that cons­pounds of F-11 and F-12 Du Pont bishops" that he opposes a constitu­be "pleased" with the conference. are damaging the earth's ozone umers would avoid them if they Fluorocarbons consumed worldwi­tional ban on abortion but does The Bishops' reaction is seen as a shield and may have to be regulat­wished. de last year, the report said. favor an amendment which would "clear asset" in Ford's attempt to ed or banned within two years to Aerosolized hair sprays and antip­permit each state to set its own win the Catholic vote in the "key"
The Du Pont Co., the major
guard against higher skin cancer erspirant-deodorant sprays alone policy. Carter has stated that he Northeast and Middle West states,
fluorocarbon manufacturer,and the
rates and potentially serious clima-consumed 58 percent. would not support any amendment votes which have been described as
Aerosol Education Bueau, which 
te change. · "vital" to the President's campai­
represents the aerosol spray can "The impact on the world of on abortion. Other candidates 
gn. .

"Selective regulation of CFM industry, both applauded the pan­waiting a couple of years before have said that they are privately (chloropluoromethane or fluorocar­el's recommendation to delay reg­deciding whether or not to regulate opposed to abortion. Ford remained at the White bon) uses and releases is almost ulatory decisions until more studies the uses and releases of F-11 and According to a story in the New House this weekend, preparing for certain to be necessary at some on the ozone problem have been F-12 is small although we are York Times dated Sept. 10, the the official opening of his campaign time and to some degree of conducted. uncertain just how small," the bishops urged the President to ''go at the University of Michigan
completeness," said a new acad­(continued on page 2) on step further, to support an tomorrow.
"We think they made the correct emy report. 
decision in saying that there is no 
Two academy panels concluded significant risk to taking 18 to 20 fluorocarbons are destroying the months for more research," a Du ozone umbrella highabovethe earth Pont spokesman said. "There is that shields out dangerous ultravi­ongoing research by industry and 

Armory dance scheduled 
olet radiation. The said excessive government to make a fuller asses­radiation could increase the rate of sment of any possible need for by Liindy Declo traditional beer throwing which The dance will go from 9 p.m. to human skin cancers, depress food regulation within two years." The Staff Reporter caused a serious accident (last 1 a.m. and busses will begin production and seriously change research is costing up to $20 million year) when a girl slipped on beer leaving St. Mary's Holy Cross and the planet's climate. a year. and damaged her teeth. Notre Dame circles at 8:30 p.m. 
"Everyone must take the busses to Academy President Philip Hanl­"Release Yourself," the theme of The co-organizers of this year's

Ban Considered and from the dance." Orlando
er told the White House in a this year's armory dance is an armory, Mike Orlando and John added.
transmittal letter the rate of ozone appropriate title for those who have Martell are stressing that this
If regulatory action proves to be
reduction is relatively small at attended previous armory parties. year's armory is a dance and a Tickets will go on sale Wednesd­
necessary, the panel recommended 
present and "a one or two-year According to Social Commissioner social gathering rather than a beer ay and Thursday nights in the
the government first ban fluorocar­
delay in actual implementation of a Kevin Saddler, "The annual armo­throwing contest. Orlando noted North and South dining halls and
bons in most consumer aerosol
ban or regulation would not be to ry dance scheduled for Friday, "B.F.D.(Big Funky Deal) is an St. Mary's cafeteria. Students can
sprays and impose controls
unreasonable." September 17 might be the last one exceptionally good eight piece bra­also purchase tickets at the Student 
prevent release of fluorocarbons if the behavior of the students ss band." Union.
One of the panels recommended, from auto air conditioners. Oregon the government immediately over­has banned fluorocarbons in aeros-doesn't change." 
haul its legal regulatory machinery ol sprays effective March 1, 1977. Saddler was referrin~ to the 
Innocent pleas entered regardingconspiracy to murder Kennedy 
by Martin J. Waters Kennedy had no immediate com­to determine their competence to Associated Press Writer ment, though a spokesman for the stand trial. He was scheduled to SPRINGFIELD, Mass. (AP) senator has said of the alleged plot, report to the court today. Three persons pleaded innocent "It didn't seem like ;ny big thing." 
King told reporters White asked 
yesterday to charges they conspir­A police official who asked not to him to join the plot and said the ed to murder Sen. Edward M. 
be named said the incident might payoff would come from sources inKennedy. Investigators meanwhile be "idle, drunken talk." New York. Under the plan, he tried to determine whether the trio 
said, he would disable elevators at 
actually intended to carry out the King told reporters, Sunday he 
the hotel and White would shoot 
alleged plot. had been offered $30,000 to help Kennedy. 
..
The three, in Springfield District kill Kennedy when the senator Court for arraignment, were as­appeared Saturday at a fund-rais­Mrs. Rondeau, a waitress at the signed lawyers and the case was ing breakfast at a Springfield hotel. Springfield hotel, "was supposed continued until Sept. 20. King went to police with his story to serve breakfast and Mr. White 
to right
After the hearing, two of the of the alleged plot. was supposed walk in 
behind her." King said. "He was
defendants -Sandra R. Rondeau, "We believe they believed it," 
going to shoot Kennedy while he
37, of Westfield, and David J. 
said Detective Lt. Walter Rooke. 
had breakfast. 

King, 31, of Springfield -were "King and White believed it." But
released on personal recognizance. "I wasn't to do the killing. He
the officer said police had no
Robert E. White, 42, of Spring­was to do the killing. All I was
evidence or witnesses to support
field, who authorities say was supposed to do was to keep the
King's story. 
behind the alleged scheme, was freight elevator ready for him and held on bail of $25,000, reduced After the court session, a psy­make sure all the other elevators from $50,000. chiatrist examined White and King were not working," King said. 

Aerosols come under attack 

the observer Tuesday, September 14, 1976 
----News Briefs--­
t=========lntemational 
South Africa Riots 
JOHANNESBURG, South Africa -Thousands of black workers boycotted their jobs yesterday and police fired birdshot and tear gas at demonstrators in the black township of Soweto. To date at least 336 persons have died since race protests began June 16. 
~=========National 

Brooklyn Bridge Jump 
NEW YORK -A distraught teen-ager dangled by one hand from a cable on the Brooklyn Bridge and threatened to jump before two policemen inched their way out on a pipe 260 feet above the water and brought him to safety. ­

Auto Strike 

DETROIT -The United Auto Workers conceded yesterday there was virtually no chance of averting a nationwide strike at Ford Motor Co., despite new concessions by the firm on a key demand for reducing work time. 

~On Campus Toda!J'-­
4 pm 4:30pm 4:30pm 5-6:30pm 6 pm 
6:30pm 7:30pm 7:30pm 
10 pm 
12 am -meeting, american studies senior meeting. library lounge. 

-scholarship meeting. east west institute scholar­ships. 105 o'shaugnessey. 
-seminar. "history of theoretical ecology" by dr. 
robert p.  me intosh, n.d. galvin aud.  
-n.d. world hunger coalition, evening fasts, dining halls  sign-up  for Wed.  
-meeting.  notre  dame  karate  club,  beginner's  

classes, new enrollments accepted. wrestling room, ace. 
-placement night, for seniors and graduates in arts and letters engineering aud. 
-meeting. charismatic prayer meeting. Iafortune student center. 2nd floor rm d. 
-panel discussion. "the harvest of the seasons" with theodore j. crovello, n.d., irwin press, n.d., and william storey, n.d. library lounge. 
-meeting. knights of columbus. council chambers of the k. of c. hall. 
-music hour. (640). john sparks plays fii·e fall's debut album "firefall" in its entirety. 


Sen. Mondale's talk stirs mixed opinions 
I 
by Mark Friedan PoUtical Reporter 
Members of the Notre Dame community entered Friday's spee­ch by Democratic Vice Presidential nominee, Senator Walter Mondale, with very low expectations of hearing a major policy statement. Although the members of the audience stressed different issues than Senator M6ndale, they seem­ed to like what they heard, and despite claims of not having made a choice, seemingly embraced the Carter-Mondale ticket. 
Senior Candy Fankovelgia found it, "disappointing that the Senator 

Night Editor • Debbie Dahrl­
ing Six days to go!!! 
Ass't Night Editor • Leigh 
Tunakan 
Layout -Denise Persinger, Tracy McAuliffe, Theresa Ric­heson, Cindy McKiel, Richard O'Malley 
Copy Reader -Cathy Nolan 
Day Editor -Mary Pat Tarpey 
Editorials • Pat Hanifan 
Features • John Calcutt 
Sports -Ray O'Brien, Fred's 
Flynn 
Typists • Mel Celeste, Kathy Egbert, Susan Shellenburger, Kitty Conklin 
l Night Controller-Karen Chi-J _ames _ .• ~ 

avoided mention of abortion or the 
ERA, but it se911ed to be a very 
good crowd rea~tion." 
Others also expressed interest in the Carter-Mondale abortion posit­ion, but only . from a personal viewpoint. No ori~ spoken to felt it was an issue to base a campaign upon. St. Mary's freshman, Janet Moriarty~ commented, "A bortion really has no place in a national campaign. I think Carter has a very rational position, the position Ford has taken is simply a cop-out." 
The issue of the economy, and 
more specifically, the need for jobs 
was the major concern of the 
audience. John Thompson, 75, or 
rural Granger spoke of this, "I've 
watched elections for a number of 
years and the Democrats always 
seem to do us more good. I'm 
retired from Ball Band in Mishaw­
aka now and I would like to see 
inflation controlled also.'' ' 
St. Mary's Freshman Ann Dum­
as echoed these thoughts, but 
added a concern for a return of 
honesty in government and a 
reduction of bureaucratic red-tape. 
"Carter showed what he could do 
in Georgia, I see no reason why he 
couldn't continue to cut red-tape in 
the White House." 
Mondale Issues Coordinator Ste­, ve Engleberg summed up the mood 
of the crowd and the campaign 
from the Mondale perspective, 
when he said, "The purpose of this 
campaign is to return America to a 
decent and just society." 
On Friday the crowd in Stepan 
Center seemed to agree with the 
candidate on what needed to be 
1 

done; that they believe the Carter­Mondale team can perform the task is still up in the air. · 


Ozone shield threatened 
(continued from page 1) academy report said. "The impact on industry of a ban on uses of F-11 of F-12 in most types of spray cans would be appreciable.'' Against a background of a possible, although very small cha­nge in world climate, however, the industry impact does not loom large," it said. Less than one percent of the ozone layer has been depleted by fluorocarbons so far, the academy said, and it will be 40 to SO years at present fluorocarbon releases bef­ore half the maximum damage of about seven percent ozone depleti­on occurs. But once the ozone layer is significantly damaged, it added, repair will take much longer. Drs. Mario J. Molina and Frank 
S. Rowland of the University of California said in 1974 computer studies showed fluorocarbons tur­ned into chlorine that destroys ozone. 
Commenting yesterday on the academy's report, they said, "It's just very reassuring for us to find out that they think the problem is 
serious enough to do something about.'' 
No rooms for Purdue weekend 
The Farley Hotel is filled for the Purdue weekend. The Hotel will be accepting reservations for other weekends up to two weeks in advance. The rate is $2.00 per person per night and must be pre-registered and pre-paid. 
O.C. STUDENTS INTERESTED IN PLAYING INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
ThiS FALL MEET AT GREEN FIELD across from senior bar) 
6 P·M· TONITE!!! 
.,-r;,;;·§·~··., 
! difference!!! : 
: ,.,.,I'Oit : 
: MCAT ~:~:;r:.:: i 
: DAT ...,'':"" • 
: lSAT :
S!NIIclnu"t-: 
: G R E •
Yolu:.JIOul IIOIItt 
: GMAT ''""' ,11,,..,, :, : QCAT Cou": 1~11 lit : 
: ( p A T 
con•l:llr updlltd :· 
• VAT l1pt IKohlou lor : 
e ftWIIWI Ol CIIU e
s

• AT ltnon1 1nd lot uu •
• flEX Olluppltontnl•"' •'
. '"'''"''' .

: ECFMG • •·
• Mlh UPI lor :. • on111td itiiOIII •
! NA T'l MED BDS : : !'J~ Trl.D~~T.B~S.-: 
• Most t'!aues uart 8 ~ek' • • pr1or to E•am • • Spnng & Fall compacts • 
• Some course1 offered on e • Ma1o• Campul8s e 
• Stanley H. Kaplan Ed. Center :· : 831 Park Square Drive • • Bloomington, lndian(l 47401 . • 
• (812)339-1127 .• 
: CHICAGO CENTER : • (312), 764-5151 • 
i~11 \l




l ~···"-"'" ~:,;,•
~-F=:.~:.r!J 
Molina said he saw no need for panic and believes that the ozone layer can be restored by the turn of the century if tight regulations are put into effect to 1978. 
Serious Concern 

The academy report expressed "serious concern" the damage to the ozone shield could raise Earth's surface temperatures and change the cycle of rainfall and evaporatio­n. 
"Such changes could lead initia­lly to a general shift of the earth's climatic belts, and ultimately to a significant melting of polar ice and a worldwide increase in sea level, the report said. Damage to the ozone layer could lead, "perhaps in a century or two, to climatic change in drastic proportions," it said. 
In terms of huma health·, the academy said increased ultraviolet radiation resulting from a thinned ozone shield could increase the incidence of malignant melanoma, a type of skin cancer that kills one third of its victims and basal and squamous-cell skin cancers which are more frequent but less serious, although they cause medical expe­nse and sometimes disfigurment. 
The American Cancer Society 
The Observer is published Ntonday through Friday and weekly during the surrmer session, except during the exams and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of the Univ. of Notre Darre CSld St. Mary's College. Subscriptions rnay be purchased for $18 C$10 per semester) trr11 The Observer, Box Q, l)lotre Darre, lndiCSla. 46556. Second Class postage paid, Notre Dame, IN 46556. 
says there are almost 300,000 new cases of basal and squamous-cell skin cancer cases each year and almost 9,000 new cases of melano­ma cancers. 
A member of the academy panel, Dr. Thomas B. Fitzpatrick of Harvard Medical Schoo1, said the incidence of melanoma is rising five to 10 percent annually. 
The United States accounts for somewhat less than half the worl­d's fluorocarbon consumption the report said, and it will have to take the lead in reducing fluorocarbon pollution just as it took the lead in pioneering the uses of fluorocarbo­ns in aerosol sprays, refridgeration systems and in the manufacture of plastic foams. 
Soph. Advisory 



Council meeting 

The Sophomore Class Advosory Council will meet tomorrow night at 7 p.m. in LaFortune Student Center. A class party, formal dance and the possibility of selling class t-shirts will be discussed. 
Duke Law school holds. interviews 
Duke Law School will be conducting interviews at Notre Dame on Friday, September 17 from 9:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m. Sign-ups and information are in front of Dean Waddick's office at 101 O'Shag. 
For persons planning internships, research, work-study, etc. locally: 
Background Information on South Bend 

TUESDAY, SEPT 14 7pm, 115 law School Urban Studies Institute. 
*INTRODUCING* 

OLD FASHIONED 




IIAIDUIUIEBS® 
402 Dixieway North Sun-Thurs 10:30-10:00 South Bend Fri & Sat 10:30 ~ 11:00 
FASTEST CARRY-OUT IN TOWN!!!!! 
20c off WENDY'S CHILI 
contains approx 114 lb of hamburger 
Coupon expires Oct. 2 
l5c off WENDY'S FROSTY 
a thick chocolate shake you must eat with a spoon 
Coupon expires Oct. 2 

~-~~-----------~-~-------~ 
Tuesday, September 14, 1976 the observer 
3 

Senatorial candidate Lugar states views 
by Katie Kerwin Staff Reporter 
Republican Senatorial candidate Richard Lugar outlined his position on major issues ranging from the defense budget to employment at a press conference last Friday in South Bend. 
Lugar spoke to a Riley High School government class, answer­ing questions from students and representatives of the news media. 

The candidate began by announ­cing his support for televised coverage of Congressional debates. 
"There can no longer be any justification for hiding the delibera­tions and decision-making of the legislative branch from public vi­ew,"Lugar declard. 
He added that similar legislation has been buried in the past and pledged to try to resurrect the proposal as a senator next year. Lugar cited first-hand observation of the governmental process by citizens as an advantage of TV debate coverage. 
"It would allow people to see what goes on on the floor of the Senate and the House, to notice who attends sessions and to ob­serve the quality of the debates. Improved attendance would pro­bably be another positive result.'' Lugar added. He stressed, how­ever, that coverage should· be selective. "Day-in, day-out cover­age would not be interesting to the viewer." 
Lugar opposes busing to ·achieve 
Voter registration through on-campus sources will be availab­le until Saturday, September 18, 1976. Students who wish to register after Saturday will have to go to the County City Building in downtown South Bend. 
Registration facilities will be present at the North and South Dining Halls tonight and tomorrow evening. If the turnout is good, the registration may continue until Friday, Sept. 17, 1976. 
Deputies eligible to register vot­racial balance, saying it leads to "a weakening of the fabric of educa­tion in cities where it is employed." 

He would favor an amendment in cities where it is employed." He would favor an amendment bann­ing busing. "I don't think there is a solution through the Federal government for attaining integra­tion." Lugar would prefer a voluntary program. He said that, having two sons in city public schools, he is particularly close to this issue. 
Lugar also said that he is against abortion and would support a constitutional amendment banning it. 
It is in the best interests of our foreign policy that Iran should be well-armed, Lugar asserted, and therefore he approves of sending arms to Iran. 
If we don't sell to them, he noted, they would probably just purchase the arms elsewhere. Armaments is a "burgeoning in­dustry which keeps hundred!) of thousands of Americans employ­ed," Lugar declared. 
Regarding the investigations of police corruption during his term as mayor of Indianapolis, Lugar said, "I think we did a good job cleaning out those who ought to be cleaned out. . .. 1 think it's a continuing problem and a very serious prob­lem. I took it very seriously then and I do now." He went on to say that after all the investigations there were only two police officers indicted. 
Voter registration held 
ers include Mary Giel, secretary in the Campus Ministry office room 103 of the Main Library and Paul Faldutio, 213 Morrissey. An estimated 1000 Notre Dame stude­nts have been registered so far this year. 
Students have until October 2, 1976 to register at the voter Registr· ation office in the County City Building, located on the corner of Lafayette and Jefferson. The office is open 8 a.m. until 4 p.m. Monday through Friday. 
Lugar opposes the Humphrey­Hawkins bill because he doesn't believe the federal government is capable of hiring the number of people the bill proposes. "I am convinced it would cause such an inflationary spiral in our economy that private industry would go into a server recession." 
He added later, "My feelings were that the Humphrey-Hawkins bill is not in fact, a measure for putting very many people on the payroll. It's a very expensive measure and I would gather, primarily, a debating tool as op­posed to a serious proposal." 
"I believe that the $104 billion proposed for federal defense this year is an appropriate sum of 'money," Lugar stated. "It's not a question of taking it away from welfare or food stamps, it's a question of Congress determining how much money is necessary to begin with to defend this country." 
If we lose our supplies of imported natural resources, Lugar cont­inued, the national economy will suffer too. 
Lugar does not favor the Senate bill for divestiture of oil companies because, 'I am inclined -to believe that substantial competition exists in the oil industry and I'm not inclined to believe the divestiture bill would lead to anymore." He favors development of renewable energy sources, such as solar and tidal energy and a gradual deregu­
1lation of oil and natural gas prices. Without federal price controls on gas and oil, solar and tidal energy would be more competitive econo­mically. Promotion of world trade has a 
· direct effect on job security in Indiana, Lugar noted. O­ver 300,000 people are directly involved in world trad, and elimina­tion of exports from income flow in Indiana would affect all or most of these people. Exports are a "substantial part of the dynamic growth of our economy and our best hope of maintaining close to full employment," he said. Lugar will face his opponent, Senator Vance Hartke, in a televis­ed debate on Oct. 13. 


LSA T applications still accepted 
by Kathy McEntee Staff Reporter 
Regular re gistration for the Law School Admission Test (LSAT) closed as of Thurs. Sept. 9. Students wishing to take the test can still submit an application until Thurs. Sept. 16, according to Dr. Grande, campus representative for the Educational Testing Service which will administer the LSAT. A late registration fee will be requir­ed in addition to the regular test fee of $13.00. 
Applications for the test are available in Dr. Grande's office in the Freshman Year building and in Dean Waddick's office in O'Shaug­nessy. The completed form will then be sent to the Educational Testing service. 
It is also possible to register, Dr. Grande noted, as a walk-in candid­ate on the test date. In this case a $10.00 additional fee is required. Whether the student is able to take the test will depend on the availab­ility of sufficient test supplies. 
Students taking the LSAT are requested to report at Stepan Center, by 8:30 on Sat., Oct. 9. Dr. Grande estimates that approximat­ely 275-300 students will take the test if this year follows the trend of 
past years. subject to change. Students taking 
The date of the LSAT coincides the LSAT are encouraged to appro­with the Saturday class day. ch their professors and inform Because it is a nationally-administ­them of their intention of taking the ered test, the test date is not test. 



california 
CHARTER FLIGHT AT X-MAS: ANYONE INTERESTED IN FLYING ATTEND 
MANDITORY MEETING: WED· SEPT 15 
7:00-S:OOpm 
IN THE LIBRARY AUDITORIUM 
OR CALL: JOHN 8679 ANYTIME .. 

rid 

GRAND OPENING SALE! 
STARTS SEPT. 16 10% Discount on all purchases with 
Saint Mary's  or  Notre Dame I.D.  
BEDSPREADS,  NORTH VILLAGE  
COMFORTERS  MALL  
IN STOCK ·ALL SIZES.  us 31 DARDEN RD. 277-3330  

N. D. Karate Club 
Master instructor: Raymond Sell, 1973 World Champion 
TONIGHT ONLY ! --$5 off membership fee. --Free training· manual. 
6:00 to 8:00 p.m. in Wrestling Room, ACC. For more information contact Jake Thomson at 1846. 
PRESENTS 
'1 
j 
~ 
HURRICANES 9 -12



Oldie's Night 
'.25 DRAFrS
$1.00 ALL NIGHT 
1 1 
l 1 
1

EVERY TUESDAY 
•.25 MIXED DRINKS 
~ 
100 Oldie 45's to be given away 
j 


f­
' 
The Observer is published ion of a majority of the Edito­by students~ of the Univer­rial Board. Commentaries are sity of Notre Dame and St. the views of their authors. Mary's College. It does not Column space is available to necessarily reflect the policies all members of the community, of either institution. The news and letters are encouraged to is reported as accurately and promote the free expression of as objectively as possible. varying opinions on campus. Editorials represent the opin-
Business Manager Tom Fronczak 
Advertising Manager Mike Miller 
Photo Editor Tony Chifari 
Production Mana er Martha L. Fanning 
DOONESBURY by Garry Trudeau 

Tuesday, September 14, 1976 Thomas O'Neil 
Dan Sanchez 
Chris Smith • 
Gregg Bangs 
Val Zurblis 
Pat Hanifin 
Bob Mader 
Maureen Flynn 
Marti Hogan Don Reimer Tim O'Reiley Fred Herbst Editor-in-Chief Managing Editor Asst. Managing Ed. Executive Editor Executive Editor Editorial Editor Exec.' News Editor Campus Editor St. Mary's Editor Copy Editor Features editor Sports Editor 

'. 
The Power to Give or Withhold Life 
Dear Editor: · about the care that our families each skipped meal (75cents), i.e., 

have shown in nurturing us as we we're getting ripped off. (Even 
The World Hunger Coalition is now have the chance to show that though guest meal tickets cost as again this semester sponsoring its same care to others. In the words much as $2.75, the student pays fast from one evening meal each of Flannery O'Connor, "The life much less. Considering fixed week. The purpose of the fast is you save may be your own." costs such as labor and mainten­two-fold: it enables we students to ance, which exist whether or not express our solidarity and concern Ginny Faust people fast, we feel that the dining for the hunger majority of the world' hall is giving us an extremely good as we voluntarily go without food deal.) for a short time. The fast is also a 3) People who should be fasting way to raise money for the volun-end up eating at the Huddle or food teer agencies which have been Dear Editor: sales. (Can't argue very much with researched by the Coalition and this one. Some feel that the have proven to be effective and Back in the Lent season of 1975 esoteric reasons for fasting are not efficient distributors of the funds. when the fasting program was first worth considering as long as their 
Much has been written about the initiated, the goal of the World abstention is monetarily rewarded. extent of famine and the conse-1Hunger Coalition was not primarily If the symbolism of fasting is quences of too little food for too :to raise money, but to give students ignored, why shouldn't these many people. We have all read the 'an opportunity to symbolically people also ignore the symbolism statistics and seen the pictures of show their concern for the poor of· in liturgy? Maybe they do.) hollow faces and distended sto-the world, by experiencing in a' 4) Why should 75o/o of the rebate machs. It is easy to take all this in small way the hunger that most of money go overseas when there is 
and yet remain untouched by it as the world faces each day. There is still much poverty in America? (I. campus an as opera e WI ou 
we pursue our own I.

tves so really no yardstick by which we can personally believe that the differ-removed from it. We protect measure how much "conscience-ence in poverty levels in the U.S. ourselves by thinking that there is ness raising" this program has and Bangladesh, for example, is nothing that one individual can. do. produced, but if one looks only at like the dtfference between a mild 
It is true that the money ratsed the number of participants (700-vitamin deficiency and the Black by fasting and the inconveniefce of 800 last semester) and the amount Plague. I do not look at poverty in being hungry for a while is on y one of money raised (more than $9000 nationalistic terms.) 
small drop in an oce.an of suffering, last year), then one is inclined to 5) The rebate money ultimately is but we cannot let thts deter us from say that it has been successful. paid by parents who have so say int acting as we can. It is only by an For some, the decision onwhe the matter. (If people are worried accident of birth and by the grace ther or not to fast one meal a week about what Mom and Dad will say of God that we are not the hungry will be very easy to make, one way then I suggest they ask permission and the sick, and that those who or the other. For others, a little before embarking on such a radical are not in .our poskition. Itfisthour .thought will be required, and course--and while they're at it they 
responsibihty to ta e .c~re o . ose possibly some wrestling with instil-should mention to the folks how around us --our famthes, friends, led values might occur. Many much of their money was spent las~ and all whom we meet, and we· students have put forth some week at Corby's, Nicki~'s, Brid­must Ie;~.rn to extend this responsi-good, and not so good, reasons for get's, etc.) 
bility to everyone on this earth. We their lack of participation (to which Believe it or not, this fasting must not shut ourselves to all that I wil respond in parentheses): program has helped put N.D. on is around us. As we are all equally 1) The money received from the map for something other than 
chil{iren of God, we must share in' fasting is only a drop in the bucket ~ootball and archaic parietal rules. our plenty what our sisters and compared to what is needed. So please consider the pros and brothers are lacking. . (True, but last year we came cons of participating, and be thank-
We have in us the power to giVe $9000 closer to filling the bucket. 1 ful that you are able to choose or withhold life, and let us choose Anyway, most of us vote in the whether or not you eat on Wednes­to give. We will be enriching belief that it will count. Why day night. ourselves as well as those around shouldn't the same reasoning apply · us. When the pledge forms are here?) Chris Brlnegu
handed out today, please think 2) Not enough money is given for World Hunger Coalition 
'-------------...;,.____....;;________~----~-"-."'-~---.-'currently involved in this. 
If Mr. Price Judges a book only-. Navone the iocation is not; the 
by its cover, might then a sanita­

Price's 

tion ·company's uniforms and trucks surpass overalls and an old Chevy Pickup? Should students 
· financta· 11y support th'ts " .orm of superficiality? ' 

Pride 

Dear Editor: 
Sounds like the classic agricul­
· · d · I' d b ·

turtst vs m ustrta tst e ate, tragt­ca11y pa thettc. m· 1't resoIut'ton. Does the technological hierarchy reign supreme once again, with "profes­sionalism" as its insubstantial excuse? 
Under the assumption that both 
·

objectivity and accuracy !Prevailed . perplexed, for example, by his in the Observer's ~nterview Tues-PreSUmptUOUS complainta.bouttherednessofthe 
day, September 7, ts Mr. Edmund Price the industrial lord in the George Brown episode? . I Fancy
Mr. George Brown, a Michigan Jig farmer, performed both .an :cological and. econo~ic~l service 0 the University by ptckmg up, at 10 cost, both dining halls' waste. :his was done individually by Mr. Brown every evening, after hours, 10 .. "fU;._, ..u~ responsible manner. ls this not professionalism? 
We are deeply disturbed by this seeming unjustice and ask Mr. Price to illuminate his rationale.
His statement, "I won't be pushed around by anybody" is neither reason nor excuse. 
Mary Scheller Ron Frerlch Hugh Sullivan 

Dear Editor: 
Although I am loathe to disagree with my good friend and articulate colleague, Professor Martin, I was 1 startled by his unequivocal con­·demnation of Crossroads Park in Friday's Observer. A Piazza 
fo1intain was obviously not wrought by Bernini; and the Huddle is less elegant for ice cream on sunny d.ays than the terrace of the Tre Scahne. Nevertheless, the Park does repre­sent an attempt at an outdoor amenityherefor which many of us are grateful. And I am deeply appreciative of those students who worked so hard (I watched them in 
h
my indolence) through long ot days to fitms· h the space " .or the pleasure of others. 
Certain irregularities of cons­truction perceived by Professor Martt'n's eagle eyes are no doubt 
worthy of notice. But I am 
bricks. Should they resemble, maybe, lapis lazuli? And the description of the jetting fountain as '1a tame, phallic squirt" strikes me as presumptuous a~ademic fan­cy--unsuitable, at least, for .co!'l· mon, latter-day mortals so dtmtn­ished in capability from the golden age of heroic aspiring. 
y truh· 
Jours~;(' DuJi 
osep • · 

A Part of N.D. 
f k fh. 

iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiipe er or 
On Friday, September 10, the Gay Community of Notre Dame applied for official University re~o­gnition. This group has, in the past, maintained a low profile on 
d h t d 'th t 
assts· ta nee from the Unt'verst'ty· 
Why has this 'step been taken? The group has not been politically oriented, and has not participated in the banner-waving of many gay liberation organizations. There is 
h .. d' I" 
no evidence that sue ra tea activity shall be undertaken. The reasons for desiring a University charter, perhaps fall under one simple motivation: the·group is of the University, that is composed of members of the academic commun­
tty, and should therefore be recog­nized by the University. 
For most campus organizations obtaining University recognition is a fairly simple procedure. The 
f h G C 't 
application ° t e ay ommum Y is without pre.cedence; and the University will not accept it immed­iately. As a Catholic university, and as a Christian community, the issue deserves careful considera­tion, . and the gay students are 
ffi .
assured that University o tela1s are 
Recognition from the administra­tion is but one facet of the Gay Community's plans for the coming 
ear. A very important encounter
Y lt'es between G.C.N.D. and the student body as a whole. The 
students have been made aware of the organization in the past, and have known it to be anonymous and 
secrett've. The group feels that this 1·s a phase that must end, and university recognition is the essen: tial step that will allow G.C.N.D. to assume an open role in the activit­
ies of Notre Dame. What does the Gay Community of Notre Dame have to offer the 
University? The focus of the group 
is largely educational. The partici-\ 
. pation of the gay students in student activities does not make the statement "gay is good"; more correctly, it acknowledges that 
members of society, a good many of them, are homosexual, and that they must be neither outcast nor isolated from society as a whole. 
It would be impossible for any person to go through their lifetime without dealing with the issue in ­
some context. Nearly every field of academics is touched by homosex­uality in one way or another; sociology, in questions of society and family; theology, in examina­tions of morality; literature and 
history, in the examination of literary and historical personages; and the list continues. It is only practical and sensible for a univers­ity to deal with homosexuality as an issue and homosexuals as members 
of its community. 
The Gay Community of Notre Dame would like to hold open meetings on campus; to invite 
1 educators to speak on homosexual­ity as it relates to their field, be it Marxist theory or moral philoso­
phy. 
' The group wants to be accessible . to the Notre Dame community, to b t f 't d t part
e seen as a par o 1 an no a 
. from it. Any. university has as tts
-, 
goal not only to have students of academics, but students of life: Homosexuality is but another issue that must be reflected upon by a
Th G 
truly educated person. e ay ,Community of Notre Dame is grateful for the consideration being given by the University administra­tion, and is hopeful that it will soon b bl t h 't wt'th
e a e o s are 1 s concerns
· the University commumty as a. 
whole. 

Are You Mad? 
If you want to pounce 

on something, do it on 
The Observer's editorial page. We need columnists, cartoonists. 
Tuesday, September 14, 1976 the observer 
A Reporter's Life on the Campaign Trail 
Editor's note: Kenneili Reich, a senior poUtlcal reporter for the ws Angeles Times, foUowed the Walter Mondale campaign to South Bend last Friday. He discussed his life on the campaign trail with Executive Editor Gregg Bangs, Features Editor Tim O'ReUey, and Senior Staff Reporter Pat Cole. 
Observer: Could you teD us your past experience In journalism? Reich: I've worked for the ws Angeles Times since 1965, and before that I worked for Life magazine for 2 years, mainly on civil rights stories, and 1Y2 years before that with UPI. Observer: How long have you been covering politics for the times? Reich: Since 1966. I went to work for the Times in 1965 as a suburban section reporter out in West Los Angeles, and I came down to the main city room in 1967. Then in the fall of '67, George Wallace came to town to solicit signatures to get on the California ballot in 1968, and I was assigned to cover that for a month. From that, I was assigned to cover the McCarthy campaign in 1968. I followed his campaign from New Hampshire to the Democratic Convention. So that's how I got into it. 
I covered the Mayor's race in Los Angeles in 1969, and I went South for the Times in 1970. I covered a good deal Of Southern politics there. Then, in 1972, I became a full-time political writer. But actually, my background in political writing goes back to 1962, when I covered the Nixon gubernatorial campaign for UPI. Observer: What, from your experience, have been the best run cBDlpaigns? For instance, the Carter organization Is always highly touted. Reich: I think Carter's staff is given more than its due. It has not grown gracefully. It was a good staff when he had a few people he could trust, but as they've added to the staff, I think they've lost efficiency rather than gained it. They necessarily had to grow larger, but it is not as sensitive a staff now as earlier. I think that part of the problem that any campaign had, that like Carter's had small beginnings, is that the people who have been there from the start are so anxious to guard their own position against newcomers, that they don't broa~­en themselves like they might have. I think they wasted a lot of time this summer when they should have been working hard on Carter's weakenesses, and they could have done it. 
If you were to ask me the most effective campaign I've ever seen, I don't know. I could tell you about the most exciting or impassioned campaign but I would really hesitate to reach a judgement on the most effective. I would be tempted to say the Nixon campaign in 1972, but of course they engaged in all sorts of criminal activities, so maybe that's why they were so efficient. 
The most interesting campaigns I've covered have been three: one being the race for mayor of L.A. between Sam Yorty and Tom Bradley in 1969, in which Yorty waged a very racist campaign, second, the race between Albert Brewer and George Wallace for the Democratic nomination in 1970, and third, the Florida primary this past year, where Carter beat Wallace. I think in all three, there was real issues, they vigorously and ably fought on both sides, and turnout was good in all three races. I think that problems tend to take care of themselves if real issues are under debate, and if there is a meaningful choice, I think the people will turn out in large numbers, but you can't expect, with two candidates who don't stand for very much, to have a very good turnout. Observer: What kind of schedule do you keep during the course of a cBDlpaign? Reich: Of course, when you are travelling with a candidate, you are beholden to his s~hedule. Some candidates campaign more hours than others. Carter has great stamina, and I remember one day in Florida when we left at 7:00 am, then didn't arrive until 1:00 am the ·following morning. Nobody had any food. When we problem for ilie candidates? Reich: Yes, it is for some more than others. I thought, for instance, that one of Birch Bayh's major problems was his lack of stamina, or any ability to know how to pace himself. He'd come into Los Angeles, and one of the most difficult things a candidate has to do is to cross time zones in a jet, and he'd arrive at midnight (3:00 am in the east), and then have to get up for an early breakfast. So, it wasn't too surprising that he wasn't in the best mood. 
In fact, he deteriorated, physically and every other way during the course of the campaign. Observer:, How much Influence does the Washington bureau have over the content of your stories? Reich: I must confess, that I'm not too fond of Washington D.C. I've never wanted to go to Washington myself, and I've always preferred living in Los Angel­es. We have a large Washington bureau that does many good things, but I've seldom been to Washington in this or any year. Observer: Do most papers have a reporte1· cover a candidate all the way through the cBDlpailgn, or are writers switched from candidate to candidate as you have been. Is this switching poUcy new? Reich: No, we've done this several times in the past. This year, I've covered Carter from January through March, Reagan in April and May, Carter in June, July and. August. Now, someone else is on Carter, and I'm on a two-week trip through the mid-west and Texas, and will file a number of stories on the political mood of these two regions..The plan now is for me to go back 
by Gregg Bangs and Tim O'ReUey 
In the interview surrounding this article, Kenneth Reieh describes· his life as a political reporter for the ws An~eles Times. Besides showing an enotU"mous amount of knowledge of the current political scene, he also expressed genuine interest in the opinions of the people he talked with at Notre Dame, no matter how closely they followed. politics. 
However, at Senator Mondale's speech, he looked disinterested, if not downright bored. Why would a man wh~se' career depends on politics be that way? After spending just one morning covering Sen. Mondale's visit, we could sympathize. 
Not that the day was boring; on the contrary, it was quite interesting and enlightening. However, th!'!re are certain aspects of the campaign routine that could drive a reporter to a state of disinterest. 
The first item was breakfast, if you could call it that. For a mere $25 a plate loy_al 
to Carter in October. So what we have here 

, is not a constant accompaniment of a candidate, though an emphasis on one. Observer: After the election, how wiD th.e Times allocate Its. coverage? 
Reich: The Washington bureau will cover most of the national politics until the next election, while we have a four-man bureau in Sacramento that will cover the state affairs, and I will cover the Mayor's race in L.A. (April '77). 
I have kind of a four-year cycle. The first part of the year follo'Ying the presidential election, I cover the Mayor's race in L.A., which sometimes lead to a runoff, so it sometimes lasts five or six months rather than three or· four. Then I cover the mid-term elections and governors race and then the presidential race. In between them, I do some investigative reporting of one sort or another. During '73-'74 there was a great deal of Watergate reporting, since a lot of the people lived in California, and returned there when they were fired or resigned. It gave me a lot to do, a lot of San Clemente stories. All of Nixon's tax pres~iures. He does not always have to be in a good mood like the candidate is expected to be in. He has not got his phone ringilrtg night and day when he finds hims·elf resting. .Some reporters have it harder than others. I think this year in parti,~ular, the TV reporters merit the high salaries that they receive by the simple being-on-the-scenes reporting that they do. This summer in Plains, Ga., the newspaper people would have to write one story a day, if that, and had a pretty relaxing summer. But the TV reporters had bosses in New York that were anxious to get anything they could. So they would have to go to Plains at 7:00 am, on the off-chance that Carter would go to one of his farms or something. It varies, but I don't think it is a particularly hard life by and large. There are certainly things that can happen unexpectedly. If the President much more inconstant. They shift people around because of ratings. I got to know a woman reporter when I was in Plains, Judy Woodruff of NBC,.she was transferred off of Carter after doing months of work, I think, simply because she didn't dress well enough, not because of anything being wrong with her thought processes. Observer: Bow great Is ilie danger of "pack journalism" presenting a distorted view of the candidates to the readers? Kelch: I think there is pack journalism to this extent: when ·something comes up such as Carter and the abortion issue, where the candidate is somewhat jostled about, then the reporters all write about that, on an issue where there is a great flurry of interest. I think the saving grace is that even when they are all writing about the same topic, they generally write some differ!'!nt things. There are some serious 

is shot in Dallas, reporters are certainly differences among reporters and what they 
going to have a rough time, working day and night. At conventions, it is the same thing, you need your stamina then.· But othe1wise, I think that the rigors are often exaggerated. 
Hunter Thompson is by no beams a typical reporter. Typical reporters stay with a candidate for a month or more. Thompson would come in for five days, take a powder, write a peice, so I would hesitate to take him too seriously. Rather than being physically demanding, it is a glamorous assignment that most people 
· would enjoy doing. Obs~:rver: Do you have a family back In L.A.'? Reich: Yes. Obs~·rver: But doesn't being on the road! 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 

Evaluation: 




What's so exciting? 
South Bend Democrats could feast on a shot glass of orange juice, two flavorful, fruity danishes that were the size of triscui.ts (butter graciously included), and coffee that hit your stomach harder than South Dining Hall donuts. Even more startling, few people, save starving report­ers bothered to eat this mouse-size meal. Perhaps the people who skipped the meal were veterans of the fund-raising circuit and had eaten breakfast at home, knowing exactly what wa:> in store for them when they t~ntered the Monogram Room. No matter to the three Observer reporters who ate the equivalent often untouched place-set­
tings of food. 
Next came what everybody was waiting 
for: s:peeches that were more stale than 
the coffee. After the usual overdone 
introductions, Sen. Mondale rattled off the 
usual line of "original" jokes. They were 
all right at the time, but after hearing them 
all over again a mere two hours later, th:;v 
were digested '[continued toJmge 71 
from . HoUday Inn .to HoBday Inn, and eating on the rubber chicken circUit, put a straiJ11 on your domestic life? Reich: Let's separate the two. The family life is a problem. If I were doing this all 
the time, like some national reporters in Washington, it would severely hurt my family life, and in many such cases it has led to divorce. In my case, I do :this only one out of every four years. The other thret~ I'm around town. Even when I'm covering state politics, you can take-off from L.A. in the morning, anyplace in the stat(:, and be back by nighttime. This year, I've done several things to soften on my wife and family. When I was assigned to Plains, they came in June for a week and in August for 2 weeks. It cost quite a bit of money, but it was worth it. I also got my wife full-time help to free her from constantly being around the house since we havt: two small children. So there are 
problems in that area. 
On the question of the rubber chicken 
dinl1lers; reporters working for major 
newspapers or TV stations have liberal think about something. Pack JOurnalism 
does exist, but not as much as some people 
say. There is no conspiracy among 
reporters, along the Spiro Agnew lines. 
Observer: The book, IBoys on the Bus. portrays editors as being conservative in , accepting stories that say things different 
from other newspapers. How much do ·your editors control your stories? 
Reich: Well, we do have discussions with 
the editors. For today, I talked to my 
editors, and told them that we should not 
emphasize the foreign policy story since he 
has said it all before. Rather, I would 
accentuate his appeal to voters not to vote 
on the basis of accent or religion, and he 
agreed with me. If UPI came up with an 
arresting that I didn't, I suppose they 
wo~daskmewhy. Butonmynewspape~ 
at least, there is not very stringent editorial control. Observer: A recent article In TV Guide indicated that third party candidates are probably not getting the covenge they deserve. Do you agree? Reich: No. If you take the percentage of vote that these people are going to get, we ought to spend our time on those candidates who stand a reasonable chance of getting elected. Some, like Lester Maddox, are off on ego-trips, and other minor candidates are not going to affect the outcome. I think, for example, Eugene McCarthy has gotten coverage. far out of proportion with the vote he is going to achieve in the election. I am not one who believes in wasting time on these people, except in the few instances, such as socialist Norman Thomas, who have no hope of winning, but are trying to raise serious issues. Observer: I seems Uke there Is a love-hate relationship between the press and the American people. After the revelations of Watergate, It seems Uke the people are a bit more skeptical about the press. 
Reich: I think there has always been skepticism about the press. People ought to realize that it is written with point of view, it is a subjective process of what to write and what not to write. People should read an artide and decide whether they agree with it or not. But I think the public sympathy for the press has increased since Watergate broke. Observer: Many people charge that the press tries to manipulate pubUc opinion. Bow much do you work over the wording of an article? Reich: Most of my articles are written rather quickly because of deadline pres­sures. Sometimes, I think the next day that I would say something differently. But I think the capacity of the press to minipulate public opinion is easily exag­gerated. · Take a look at the marvellous cynicism that people in a country with a controlled press view the newspapers. And I think that cynicism is as valid in a free society as in a controlled one. It has happened, but I don't think it is a major problem. 
Observer: Many countries, especially in Western Europe, look lipon our elecdons as somewhat like circuses.Do you have any suggesdons for inllprovement? 
arrived at the DuPont Hotel in Miami, all the restaurants were closed, and Carter simply said, "They'll be serving breakfast in the morning." 
When you are on your own, like I am now, I just got off the Mondale campaign, then you sort of set your own schedule, according to what there is to do. I try to take a day off once a week, because I find that if you do work all the time, you do get stale, you're not as effective as if you rest one day a week. Observer; Do you think staleness Is also a accountants lived in L.A., and there was a constant stream of things to be written about. But I don't think too far ahead about these things, I don't know what I'll be doing in the latter part of '77. Observer: People, such as Bunter Thomp­son, describe the reporter's life as being alniost as tiring as that of a pro basketbmll player's. HIt's true, how do you keep yotu stamina up? Kelch: I don't think it is as tiring for the reporter as it is for the candidate. In the first place, the reporter is under far fewer expense accounts and seldom eat chicken, 
unless they like it. Observer: Have · you ever thought of switching from print to TV? Kekh: I've done a little TV when I've been invited to appear as a guest on discussion programs, but it does not appeal to me as mu<:h as newspaper work. I kind of like the permanency of print, and it's· the way I prefer to express myself. I've never given mu<:h serious consideration to a TV job. 
I don't envy the TV people. It's a much better paid than newspaper work, but it is Reich: The elections could be shortened up .some, with the conventions in the last two weeks of August, for instance. It does go on too long to really hold people's attention, and unfortunately the key decisions are ~ade when not too many people care. The turnout in the very important, early primaries are cast some­times by only a minority of the people, so things could be shortened. But in a country as diverse as the United States, I don't know how you could restrict the process otherwise. 
~-------~-----­
6 

the observer Tuesday, September 14, 1976 
Republicans planning active campaign 
by Mark Frledan November election. people's ability to judge moral The series of debates beginning The collegiate Republicans is 
Political Reporter After the general meeting Chad issues for themselves. Tiedemann on Sept. 23 between Carter and open to any student. The next Tiedemann, vice chairman, and and Estrada split on the issue of Ford were seen as cricial by meeting will be a 7:00 on Sept. 21 Frances Estrada, St. maryls treas­Carter'a charismatic religious beli­Estrada, commenting, "People can in Room 1-C, LaFortune Student
Working with the belief that, urer discussed some issues to be ef. Tiedemann referred to it as use the debates to take a stand; Center. For more informatjon call"Every single Republican vote raised in the fal campaign. the "somewhat frightening" while Es­Carter won't be able to continue Kevin Richardson at 3506 or Bethcounts this year, for the good of the primary issue of this campaign is trada was not bothered by Carter's with his generalities on the issues.' Cutter at 5254.

cause, our children, and children's the employment situation, accordi­children." Kevin Richardson unv­ng to Tiedemann and Estrada. The

eiled his plans for the collegiate Republicans (CR) during an organ­

Democratic social programs were stand. 






·······················a
also discussed with Carter being
izational meeting held recently. Ford democrats • SMC SOCIAL COMM. :
portrayed as a "Southern-Fried 
In a meeting attended by 60 McGovern." who would push for a REpublican students, Richardson continuation of New Deal and Great form committee • PRESENTS • outlined a system of committees Society programs. 
The Democrats for Ford 
students may sign up for to aid The catholic issue was plyed committee is being formed and is Republican candidates this fall. down by both Tiedemann and 

looking for interesting people. The 
These committees are: telephone Estrada. emphasizing instead the committee was beguq,._ by several : AMERICAN GRAFFITTI : contact, circulation of position pap­

participants in last spl'rng's Mock 
ers, membership, and coordination 

Democratic convention, who preferof activites. Red Cross President Ford to Jimmy Carter.$ •e Wed Sept 15 Thurs Sept 16 •• 
Richardson also urged students The Committee is chaired by Jim
needs volunteers
to sign a petition being circulated Kresse, who was the successful 
: 7:15 and 9:30 :
calling for senate passage of Joint The American Red Cross needs campaign manager 'or Senator Resolution #108. This bill will volunteers for Sunday afternoons Hubert Humphrey at the Mock 
e O'LAUGHLIN AUD -SMC e
amend the constitution, making it 1:00 to 2:30 p.m. The volunteers Convention. mandatory for the federal budget to will help admit patients at Memor­Any interested Democrats (or 
• d . . $ •
be balanced every year. Richards­ial Hospital in South Bend. Anyone indepdents) can call Jim Kresse qat • a miSSIOn 1.25 • on is seeking students to help in a interested in working for the Red 272-2909; Bill or Rick Kresse at campus-wide canvass prior to the Cross should call 234-0191. 8725 or Harold Jara at 1074. 

Economical basics. Powerful slide rules. And, a programmable powerhouse. 
TI-1200 TI-1250 'fl-1600 Tl-1650 

Goes where you go. Adds, sub­Everything the Tl-1200 has-plus. Super slim. Hig•i-styled. Four func­Super slim. Powerful 4~key tracts. multiplies, divides. Per­Full function memory: add. sub­tions. P~rcent key. Automatic con­memory. A change-sign key. Press centage, too. Automatic constant. tract, recall or clear with a single stant. 8-digit display is easy on the the keys just as you would state the Full floating decimal. 8-digit dis­keystroke. Also, a change sign key. eyes. Use it 3 to 5 hours before problem. Fast-charge battery off­play. Replaceable battery. Optional Replaceable battery. Optional recharging. AC adapter/charger ers 3 to 5 hours continuous use. adapter available. adapter available. and carrying case. Adapter and carrying case 
included.
$995* $1295* $2495* 
$2995* 


The classic slide rule calculator. Even more power. Three user-ac­Saves working with books of tables Sufi1er slide rule that's program­Algebraic keyboard and sum-of­cessible memories. Least square and charts. Financial and statistical mable. A powerhouse. 10 memo­products capability with single­linear regression. Factorials. Ran­operations are preprogrammed. ries. 100 program steps. 9 levels of function keys. Versatile memory: dom numbers.. Permutations. Handles: annuity, simple and com­parentheses, 4 levels of subroutine. add. store, or retrieve data. Set Mean, variance, and standard de­pound interest, sinking fund, amor­AOS (Algebraic Operating System) angles to degrees or radians. Cal­viation. 20-conversions. And more tization, cash flow, cost control lets you handle complex problems culates to 1~-digits. display rounds -plus, everything that can be done and depreciation-and more. AC naturally, left-to-right. Battery to 10. Operates on rechargeable on the SR-SOA. AC adapter/ char­adapterI charger and carrying case pack, AC adapter/charger and Ap­battery pack. ger included. included. plications Library.
$5995* $7995* $4995* $10995* 

Special SR-56 $10.00 rebate. 

-----------------------------------------~-----------------------------------, 
Texas Instruments will rebate $10.00 of your original SR-56 purchase price when you return this coupon and your SR-56 customer information card post­Name marked no later than October 31, 1976. To apply: 
Address
1. 
Fill out this coupon 

2. 
Fill out special serialized customer information City State Zip card inside SR-56 box 


University
3. Return completed coupon and information card to: 
Special Campus Offer Name of SR-56 Retailer P.O. Box 1210 SR-56 Serial No. (from back of calculator)
Richardson, Texas 75080 Please allow 30 days tor rebate 
L---------------------------------------------·-~------------------------------------~ 
TEXAS INSTRUMENTS
"Suggested retail price. C1) 1976 Texas Instruments Incorporated 
INCORPORATED 
''.. '4 .
'' '. 


Tuesday, September 14, 1976 the observer 



Faculty boasts quality and quantity 
Fifteen academic administrative appointments, some of them anno­unced previously, have been made by the University of Notre Dame's Office of the Provost for the 1976-1977 academic year. Rev. James T. Burtchaell, C.S.C., also announced 99 faculty appointments. 
Administrative appointments wi­thin departments, programs and institutes include Dr. George A. Brinkley, who continues as acting chairman of the Department of Government and of the Institute for International Studies as well as becoming chairman of the Commi­ttee on International Relations; Dr. John E. Derwent, chairman of Mathematics; Dr. Raymond C. Gutschick, acting chairman of Mil­Gutschick, acting chairman of Ear­th Sciences; Lt. Col. James A. Musselman, chairman of Military Science; Dr. John B. Ryan, associ­ate director of the Murphy Liturgi­cal Center; Dr. James I. Taylor, 
Viking 2 project delayed 
PASADENA* Calif. AP · Scientists tried desperately yesterday to unj­am a mechanical arm on the viking 2 robot that was delaying the experiment most likely· to show whether there is life on Mars. 
Three biology experiments abo­ard the lander were properly cranking away, meanwhile, appar­antly having received their regimen of Martain soil, scientists said. 
But the search for organic mate­rials-carbon-based molecules found 
Political reporting: harder than it seems 
[continued from page 5] as well as the coffee and danishes. 
For example: 

"I think I'm the first Norwegian to visit Notre Dame since Knute Rockne." 
"Since we feel so close to the 

people, you are all invited to the 
Inaugural on January 20, and 
(Rep.) John Brademas will pay for 
it. 
"Vance Hartke believes in the principle of half-and-half, half for Indiana, and half for the rest of the country." 
Seemingly in self-defense, Reich 

and his fellow reporters make up action is as routine as assembling standard jokes of their own. The cars. People who have seen it all best of the lot came up when the before, like Reich, probably know discussion centered on Indiana the script as well as Mondale. politics: •'There are two senators However, it seems to keep all the from Indiana --Sen. Bayh and Sen. pec'!Jle happy, which is what the Bought." show is all about, isn't it? 
in every living thing on earth­stopped dead in its tracks. 
Viking 2's telescoping arm deve­loped problems after scratching the rocky Utopis surface.and delivering a clump os soil to the tiny biology laboratories Sunday. 
· The arm was to have delivered the remainder of the soil to an X-ray probe, but the delivery ,was never made. 
"We have what's called a 'no-g­o,"' said Jim Martin, manager of chairman of civil Engineering and Dr. Richard J. Thompson, acting director of the collegiate Seminar Program. 
Incoming faculty members on the College of Engineering include Pratul K. Ajmera, Daniel Graupe, Yee Chuk Richard Kwor and How­ard B. Demuth, electrical enginee­ring; Esmee C. Bellalta and Jaime Dellalta, architecture (fall semest­er); Andrejs Atrens, metallurgy; James I. Taylor, civil engineering. 
Joining the College of Science faculty are Jerry L. Artz, Vincent P. Coletta and Arthur G. Schmidt, physics; Thomas E. Cecil, Paul L. Chabot, Leon Harkelroad, Frank 
W. Owens, Andrew C. Palm and Bruce J. Rose, mathematics; Chie­nkuo Fred Chang, Samuel B. Salvin and Shoji Yamazaki, microbiology; Conrad J. Kowalski, Edwin T. Mertz and ames J. Worman, chemistry, Richard W. Fessenden, Robert H. Schuler and Haim Leva-
Unfortunately, the same jokes and introductions started popping up at the speech itself. John Brademas was called the ablest congressman in the country so often, his head must be the size of a pumpkin. 
The reception that immediately followed the speech was obviously not geared toward discussion of the issues. For quite like the break­fast, the conversation never got past the "Hi, how are you?"stage. 
Although the day's procedures ran smoothly enough to look spe­cially geared to South Bend, the 
· non, chemistry and radiation I abo­ratory; Paul R. Grimstad, biology, and Robert J. Horodyski, earth sciences. 
New in .the college of Business Administration are Ronald P. Bea­ulieu John Hollenba·~k. John A. Ruh; andRobertP. Vecchio, mana­gement· John A. Halloran, Hames 
M. Johnson and Le:e A Tavis, finance; James F. Gae~ner, accou­ntancy, and Saeed Samtee, marke­ting. 
New facuUy in the college of Arts and Letters are Joan Aldous, Wendy Carlton, Davi,d M. Klein and Guy r. Muto, sociology and -anthropology; Loretta K. Jancoski, Ellen Weaver LaPorte, James W. McClendQn, Jahn B. Ryan, R~v. 
Robert Taft, S.J., Herold D. Wetss, ·studies, and Winfried Seelig, hist-William F. Drury, C. S.C. and John H. Yoder and Arthur E. ory. Mathilda B. O'Bryant, library. Zannoni (Purdue Program) • theol-QCIOC:IIOI::IOICIOOCIOCIOC::IOICIOOCIIOC:IIOI::IOIDCIOCIIOCIOIIIODCIOC•IIOIXIOCIOCIOC~ 
ogy; David B. Bayless, Richard F. Foley, Alfred J. Freddoso, Mark MacCarthy and Ames W. Garson, 
the billion-dollar Viking Project. "We don't known exactly what the problem is.'' 
A "no-go" is a built-in command that halts the arm when something out of the ordinary occu1rs. 
Similar difficulties developed w­ith Viking 1's sampler arm when it first scratched the surface of Chry­se, 4,600 miles away. As it was pulling back to deliver its second soil sample, it jammed. Scientists ordered the arm to extend itself again and it came back properly. 
A group of troubleshooters cro­wded around a working model of the lander here at Jet Propulsion aboratory, trying to re,:reate the situation of Viking 2 and fiture out how to get the arm working again. 
NOTICES 
Morrissey LDan Fund $21)-$150. 1 day wait. 1';4 interest. Due in 30 days. Lafortune basement, M · F 11:15 . 12:15. 
Building full of antiques and used furniture at Traders Villa9e · 13000 block, U.S. 20, Mishawak<~. 255-031 
Wll1eadl flute in 'l(II!IB'e time. Call Beth. 8112 for lll)re info. 
ACXlJrate, fast typing. Mrs. Donoho 
232-0746. 

FAST 
TYPEWRITER 
SERVICE 
':I:'=R'·II 
Call Chaps 287-3975.

Classified AdS -R·;;;;:;;;te-;;;-eded. 0\Ml bed~m. 

FOR RENT 

311 North Cushing-Ready now! 3 bedroom furnished house in ex­cellent condition. call 234-6688. _ 
'12 BEDROOM HOUSE FOR RENT 
IN NO area. $350 plus deposit. Call Jim Zimmer, (616)445-2471, 7 a.m. -4:30 p.m. 
LOST AND FOUND 
Bro....., wallet containing student ID, 
Maryland driver's license. Lost at SMC. Reward offered for return. Call LDu, 259 Alurml, 1154. 
WANTED 

Need GA tix for Purdue game; call 
Chris at 8336. 

In dire need of 2 Oregon tix . Call 
Don at 8183. 

Must have 2 Purdue tix for (tuition 
paying)parents. Pleasehelp! 3540. 
Need 2 GA tickets for Oregon. Will pay SS$. Call Steve 3185. 
Babysitter needed for 1, 2 or 3 full days per week; In our horne; must have O\Ml transportation. S1.50 per 
hour. Rlone 283-6619 or 288-9892. 
Need 2 Tix to Puraue. Will pay ! Call 291·-3075. · 
Need ride to C incinatti area Oct. 1 · will share driving and expenses. Call 1653. 
Football tickets, tv.o together, multi­ples thereof. All NO home games. Call 287-3021. 
Refrigerator, regulation room size. 
To buy or rent. 8585. 

Needed, many GA tix for any home 
game. Call 4168 . SMC. 

Will trade 2 Purdue tickets for 2 
Oregon tickets. call Jim 8794. 
Mr. Leo C. Hansen Is hereby announcing he is seeking a Purdue ticket. Inquire 1650. 
Needed: 5 GA tix for Purdue. Call 
Tim 1802. 

Needed! Football tickets to any NO home games. call 6617, ask for 
Mark. 

Need one Purdue ticket. Call Greg. 
288-0088. 

Waitresses needed· apply In person betMen 2-5:20p.m. daily at Vegeta­ble Buddies. 
philosophy; Paul J. Anderer, Nan-New members of the Law School cy L. D'Antuono, David J. Lando-faculty include Peter W. Thorton, uceur and Virginia E. Ori, mode.rn Larry D. Soderquist, Rodolpho and classical languges; Sandra Sandolval, Philip F. Postlewaite, Harmatiuk, Steve Katz, James E. and Melvyn A. Silver and Myron B.' Stewart (spring semester) and Je-Sokolowski (fall semester). Other rome E. Thorton, English. new personnel with faculty rank .Also in the college of Arts and include Daniel M. Chipman, V. Letters are Michael J. Carter, Madhavan, Pedatsur Neta,Larry K. Susan B. Carter and Gene Ellis, Patterson, Henning Paul,Shanjen economics; Elizabeth A. Christman Sheng, Juan Scaiano, and Edward and Harry J. Kevorkian, American A. Ulicny, Radiation Laboratory; Studies; Dian L. Hawfield and Hames H. Toner,CollegiateSemin-David J. Weber, speech and dram-ar; Capt. Daniel T.Davis, aerospace a; Adrian Bryttan, music; Kathleen science, Capts. Chris E. Brown, Ann Cordes, physical education; Robert B. Clemens and John J. Linda C. Ferguson, General Progr-MacNeill, Military Science; Angie am of Liberal Studies; Carol R. R. Chamblee, Mary Kathryn Jurus-Glass, psychology·; David C. Leeg-ik and Mark E. Kronholm, Fresh-e, government and international man Year of Studies; and Brother 
Voter's Registration 
Mon., Tues., & Wed. North & South Dining Halls Register in Indiana and have a voice in the issues affecting you! 
SENIOR PICTURE RETAKES retakes... 
Reminder:· A fee of $5.00 for resits 
and $10.00 for first sittings is being collected at the time 
of the sitting .. 
% GA Purdue tix needed tor family · 
utilities, living, bath, kitdlen. $67.50. Connie 8491 days. 289-9110, 255-7571 eves. 
1 need two people for interesting sales -.wrk, car necessary, call 272-1966. 
FOR SALE 
% PIECE BEDROOM SET +!W. ??. Good condition. call 272-2520. 
Purdue game · 5 tix. 40 yard I ine. Call 233-2882. 
TEAC Cassette Dedi. $315 or make offer, LDft $80. 1689. 
1'1aSenior season ticket. Best offer. 287-4770. 
USED BOOKS and paperbacks. Large stock of general reading material & o.p. books. Bring this ad & receive one free paperback with 
any $1.00 purdlase. The BOOK+ STACK, 112 W. Lexington, Bkhart, 293-3815. 35 min. via U.S. 20 to 
do\Mlto\Ml Elkhart. 
A truedlariot of the gods! 1971 VW super Beetle. Absolutely divine condition! $1200. 272-1639. 
PERSONALS 
Hey Red · How about a big birthday kiss? 
WB..COME BACK LEMON BABIES! Can't believe you're seniors! Ready for another year of 
studying? Well, i!l least you'll be able to go to the Senior Bar .. atter all those long dry years of waiting. 
And the oow jurTlled over the moon. J & J in CA. 
YO THER~E ABOVE AD WAS PlACED BY DLUGOLECKI, FEL+ 
LAS. 
VRT. 
Won't you pledge 'tOUr Wednesday evening meals? Details available at dinner on Tuesday. 
Tolklen fans: Help celebrate Bilbo llll'ld Frodo'S birthday, Sept. 22. For more Into, call Mike, 3280 or Greg, '3344. 
, Do you need S25.00? I need me i glasses. Clear tnwnes with Thomas Walrath imprintedoolnside frame. Luckily I couldn't see the Pitt game ibut -.wuld like to hillle them bilck by . Southern Cal. Use )OUr eyes to SiiVe 
mine. If found, call Tom at 
~88-0088. 


----~ 
the observer Tuesday, September 14, 1976 




Kelly assembles Irish nine for complete fall schedule 
by Bob Keen weather conditions and a long miss the services of Bob Strata, winter," Kelly stated. Further-who batted .347, led the team in more, since the final semester ends runs batted in with 35 and in home 
For the first time in history the in May the team is forced to play a runs with four. 
· Notre Dame baseball team is cramped schedule containing many · Junior Don Wolfe' heads the playing a fall schedule consisting of doubleheaders which puts an enor-Notre Dame pitching staff which six h'ome and six away games. mous strain on the pitching staff. Kelly feels will be the key to the Their season begins Sept. 25 at Kelly is blessed with a fine team's success. "Pitchng is the Bradley, with their home opener on nucleus of returning starters from most important aspect of baseballat Oct. 3 against Indiana State. last years team whose strength the collegiate level,'' Kelly stated. 
Notre Dame finished with a disap­runs through the middle of the Last year Wolfe won six games pointing record of 16-wins and 24 diamond at catcher, shortstop, while losing only three. He com­losses last spring. Second year second base and center field. The piled an excellent ERA of 2.97 and head coach Tom Kelly, however, The people at these positions have led the staff in strikeouts with 46. displays reserved optimism, "I was the greatest amount of playing Unfortunately, Wolfe will not be very pleased with the season's experience. available to the team until the latter stages, because the kids This year's team is solid at spring season. Other returning never gave up and we managed to catcher with the return of senior pitchers induce senior Bob Hughs, win 9 out of our last 13 games. Our Tim Pollack who batted .292 and sophomore Mike Bobinski and major problem was youth and junior Dave DeFacci who hit at a · junior Jim ScholL inexperience last year." This team .268 clip. Kelly expects them to The other starting positions are seems to have similar problems. equally share the catching respon-relatively wide open. These incude 
Tryouts for the team began last sibilities this season. They are first base at which there are no week with approximately one hun­both good defensive catchers as is returning players experienced at dred candidates. Kelly was ext­suggested by the fact that they that position. Sophomore Bob 
• remely pleased with the interest made only five errors between Cleary was a late season starter at and enthusiasm shown by the them during last season. third base, however, he is being players, especially the freshmen. Retl!rning at second base is hard pressed by a variety of "Although we have had only a senior Tom Fiascki who was the players. The outfield lost two out couple of practices it looks like our leading hitter on the club last year of three starters. Fierce competi­freshman people will help us right with a .365 average. Rick Pullano tion has already developed for the away," stated Kelly. played shortstop last year, batted these positions during. the early Kelly is restricted by very limited .325 and also led the team in walks. practices. Both senior Mike Galla­recruiting. ''I never have to worry Senior captain Bob Bobowski way and junior Bob Bader saw about losing players for academic should anchor down the outfield, limited action in the outfield last probation," he quipped. Kelly playing center. Although hurt for year hitting .266 and .200 respect­plans to make his first cut today but most of the season he still managed ively. he hopes to keep as many people as to hit .302 in the 16 games in which Interestingly, collegiate baseball seems feasible. Normally, the he played. Kelly is counting on has acquired the designated hitter squad consists of 33 players with an Bobowski to provide leadership by rule which allows more players to 18 member travelling team. example in the upcoming season. participate in the games. Senior 
"Notre Dame has reasonably Last year the Notre Dame base-Jim Abbatiello saw some action good facilities for baseball, how­ball team lost nine players through last year as designated hitter and ever, we are handicapped by irratic graduation. The team will severely batted .269. 
*ObServer 

by Patti Ruocco 
By winning all six of its singles matches against Indiana State last Saturday, the SMC tennis team 
won the match before the doubles 
players could even warm up. As it 
was, the only losses SMC suffered 
-I were in two tightly fought out doubles games. SMC tennis coach Mark Peterson had no complaints about the match . 


Sports 
at all. "We had been really worried since last year. We tied them (ISU) for third place at 
Irish thinclads nipped by 
Purdue in season opener 
state." Friday Peterson had given the team the day off except for by Gregory Solman accomplished something.'' directions to practice hitting for an 
As for his own personal victory, 
hour. "Apparently that's exactly The "luck of the Irish" was not Reinhart was convinced that his what they did,'' Peterson grinned. 
too evident last Saturday at the personal unbeaten string would not Hitting especially hard were the Notre Dame Golf course when the last long, but added with a smile, 
undefeated six ofthe singles' play. 
Varsity Cross-Country team lined . "Itcertainly felt good to win. I just Barb Timm and Louise Purcell, up against a strong Purdue Team. hope that I can work harder in the the number one and two players The Irish dropped their first meet future to have a chance of placing won their sets 6-3, 6-1 and 6-1, 6-0 and home opener 29-27. in the national trials." respectively. "Barb and Louise 
Notre Dame Captain Jim Rein­played well," commented Peter­hart, however, might have found son, "but they haven't quite peak­
ND soccer team
his "pot of gold" in his race ed yet, though they'll try to for victory, hopefully indicative of state." good things ahead for "Reina" and drops opener Noreen Bracken the number Coach Joe Piane. three player ''played beauti'fully,'' 
Reinhart, who jumped to the by Kevin Connolly according to Peterson, winning her top of the heap early in the race, sets 6-3, 6-3 while Ann Daniels held the number one spot under number four in singles garnered by strong pressure from two Purdue The Notre Dame Soccer Club her coach for bei'ng "one heck of a 
runners throughout most of the began its season Friday night with tennis player" who had "over­contest. Entering the final half­a disappointing 3-2 loss to Purdue­powered her opponent as did Marie mile, though, Reinhart pulled a-Calumet., Mckee (the number six singles -head to win by forty to fifty yacds. The first half was scoreless as player)." Daniels won her sets His 24:58.01 time paced him ahead the play belonged to the defenses. with scores of 6-1, 6-1 and McKee of two Purdue runners, as well as turned in winning. scores of 6-1,
The Irish started the second half 
teammates. Dennis Vander Kraats, 6-3.
scoring with a beautifully executed 
who polled fourth, and Dan Horgan ''Tami Griffin had a really close
corner kick from co-captain Tom 
who placed sixth. match at the number five match,''
Mulvey to Terry Finnegan. 
Piane had praise for all three of stated Peterson, when Griffin pull­
Purdue then scored twice on a
his top runners, but reserved ed out a 7-6 set and went on to win
misjudged throw-in and a kick that
special acknowledgement for fresh­6-3 in the second set.
barely eluded the hands of goalie
man Mark Novak and Kevin Kenny Doubles play featured ISU's use
Roger Kelly. 
who placed seventh and eleventh. of a new rule in tennis this year "I was particularly pleased with Purdue took a 3-1 lead a few which allows coaches to repeat the performance of Mark and minutes later as a result of some their singels players in doubles Kevin" said Piane, "They showed good teamwork. matches. Playing number two that with added experience they Notre Dame put a lot of pressure doubles, Lynn Griffin and Kathleen wiii be a force to reckon with.'' on the Purdue goal in the 'last few Bracken were barely defeated 6-4, 
Reinhart too was methodical minutes and got a goal with a little 6-4 by ISU's Lili Dorsett, a singles about the teams narrow defeat. more than 2:00 to go. Jim repeater, and Zalene Van Allen. 
"The whole team ran extremely Moellering took the ball out of a Lisa Donovan and Maura Finneran well," he commented. "Our goal crowd in front of the net and fired it won by the large margin of 6-0, 6-1 this year is simply to have everyone in to narrow the margin at 3-2. But in third doubles. running to their fullest potentials. the rally fell short as that was the The longest battle of the after­Ifwe can do that, than I feel we've final score. noon however was the first doubles 
( 

Coach Kelly eyes over new prospects who will hopefully lead the 
Irish to a successful fall campaign. 
Notre Dame needs a great deal 
of improvement this year in all 
aspects of its game in order to 
have a successful season, accor­
ding to Kelly. Their line-up is filled 
with question marks and inexperi­
ence. 

Kelly has taken a big step 
forward by arranging a fall sched­
ule. He explains, "there are no 
good substitutes for game condi­
tions and pressure." He contin­
match which went into a tie-break­Both coahces agreed that the er when SMC's team of Karen game had been one of the friend­Midock and Kelle Boogger came' liest matches they had ever seen. 
back 6-4 after having lost the first Indiana State coach Doris Breiten­
set 6-2. Unfortunately for SMC, feld commented that she was 
their rally didn't hold as ISU's pleased with her girls performan­Carrie Darning and Dana Wiley, ces especially after having had to the number one and three singles . 
play Valpo the night before. ''Theyplayers respectively, downed them showed improvement today as far in the final set. 

as individual play," she added.

Peterson's mam train of thou­
.The ISU coach also had words ofght now lies on the state tourna-' praise for the SMC team statingment which he is optimistic about. 

that "SMC has a fine team andThe State Tourney line-up is set up much depth. There were some finefor the four single spots. In the one plays and very nice rallies by allthrough four spots respectively are: players."

Barb Timm, Louise Purcell, Nor­een Bracken and Ann Daniels. In SMC's Mark Peterson returned doubles SMC will take advantage accolades to the ISU team and of the new rule by pairing up offered a reason for why the ISU Louise Purcell and Barb Timm for team wasn't as strong as expected. the first doubles spot and Anne "They drove in last night right Daniels and Tami Griffin for the after their Valpo match and it hurt second. them,' he explained. 


ND women's tennis team impressive in varsity debut 
by B.J. Lavins nents 6-1,6-1. The opposition, 
however, scored a victory when 
they crept by Shukis and Callahan 

Last Saturday the women's ·var­9-11. sity tennis team opened its season Coach Kathy Cordez said of the by routing Indiana State 7 to 2 in a opening victory, "I think that this puissant demonstration of tennis at signifies a good season. We the St. Mary's tennis courts, defeated convincingly a more ex­
Sophomore sensation and num­perienced team, and even the two ber one player, Mary Shukis, losses in this match were close." demonstrated her adroitness by There are 15 women on the team vanquishing her opponent 6-3, 6-1. and they gained their birth by The number two player, Jane surviving a four day tournament. Lammers, followed suit by rolling Players on the team, other than over her opponent 6-1,6-2. Diane those mentioned above, are Ann Shillingburg then won 6-4, 6-4, and Gardner, Kathy Juba, Mary Beth Ellen Callahan was edged out 6-7, Leonard, Ginger Siefring, Mary 5-7 in a spirit stirring match. Singer, Linda Sisson, and Monica 
Freshman Paddy Mullin in her Stupke. Robin Kilpatrick is the ifrst set outduelled her opponent manager, and another will be 7-6. She then demonstrated her named at a later date. ability to pommel the ball as she The tennis team will participate overwhelmed the opposition 6-0 in in nine matches this season and 
the second set. Sophomore Mary three tournaments. They compete Joe Cushing continued the trend by today at Franklin College against ripping her opponent 6-3,6-2. Franklin College and Indiana Cen­
In doubles competition Lammers tral. Their three tournaments and Shillingburg teamed up to include: the Ball State Tourna­crush the opposition 10-4. Sue ment, the Indiana State Tourna­Flanigan and Sharon Sullivan then ment, and the Millikan Tourna­got together and beat their oppo-ment. 




