Hesburgh: still in control after twenty-five years 
SOUTHBEND, Ind. [AP] · Practic­ing the virtue of humility, the Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh submits his resignation as president of the University of Notre Dame once a year. 
But it hasn't been accepted yet and isn't likely to be accepted soon. 
Now in his 25th year at the helm ofthe nation's best-known Catholic university, Hesburgh qualifies as dean of university presidents a­cross the country. 
''The cemeteries of the world are full of indispensable men and women, but somehow the world goes on. So does the world of colleges and universities," he said recently. 
Still, while other university pres­idents have come and gone during the last quarter-century, Hesburgh 
remains in firm control at Notre Dame. And the 8,800-student university, once known almost 

0exclusively for its football program, is now an academic institution of growing prestige. 
Pulitzer Prize-winning auth­
Vol. XI, No. 48 an independent 
"' 
c
or Norman Mailer, a Jew, was Q, 

cr
~
quoted in 1974 as saying he would were all but dormant before Hes­
send his 10-year-old son to the burgh assumed cqntrol. 
Catholic school ifthe child were the Perhaps that is why he dismisses proper age. with a puff on his pipe and a smile "It's a great college," Mailer George Bernard Shaw's statement said. "I can usc the word 'soul' that "a Catholic university is a there and they don't snicker." contradiction in terms." It just So while Knute Rockne's reputa­isn't so any longer, the Notre Dame 
tion still may be alive on the president says. 1,200-acre campus located incon­Consider the writeups the school 
gruously in northern Indiana -a has received in recent years: 
state where Catholics make up only -From The New York Times: 
13 percent of the population -so to­"As an educator, Hesburgh has 
are social science departments that brought Notre Dame from the forefront of the nation's football factories to the forefront of the nation's universities." -From The Wall Street Journal: "Many scholars are .now saying that Notre Dame not only has become a fine Catholic university, but also appears on the verge of being a fine university, period." -And from Change Magazine: He has changed Notre Dame "from a good denominational college with a seminary-like outlook and life­style into an outstanding university free of juridical links to any church authority, an institution that for the first time has given Catholic higher education respectability." Hesburgh. now 59, has earned those plaudits without shrinking from the public sector. 
Off-campus activities 
He has served as chairman of the 
U.S. Commission on Civil Rights and the Overseas Development Council; as president of the Asso--­ciation of American Colleges; as the permanent Vatican City repre­sentative on the International A­tomic I:nergy Agency; as a member of the Carnegie Commission on the Future of Higher Education; and as a director of the Chase Manhattan Bank. 
At one time, in fact, he w_as 



Variety of 'practical, unusual' classes listedat ''Free University'' 
by Alicia Denefe Staff Reporter 
A variety of practical and unu­sual courses will be offered this year at the "Free University." Students and faculty will teach courses ranging from life insurance to beer-making and pinball. "At this point,'' said Special Projects Chairman Charlie Moran, the 'Free University' is the most successful it has ever been. Tht~ largest we know of was in '68 wher: 30 courses were offered. 
Bro. John Benesh, director of student activities, is teaching a macrame course designed for be­ginners. "I've been interested in it for two or three years," comment­ed Benesh. He is particularly interested in making plant hang­gers, and in addit1on, makes small belts with nylon, and waJI hangings with hemp and yarn. The course will work on basic macrame knots. 
A course on the basics of 
insurance will be taught by Dr. Charles Reddy, im.urance officer at ND. "This will be a very practical course," commented Reddy, "and it will not be at all technical." 
The course will teach the student how to purchase 01: choose his own life insurance, automobile and home-owner coverage. "There are too many incompetent people sell· ing insurance," commented Red­dy. 
Mike Gassman, an electro-en­gineering major, will teach a course on basic repair of consumer items such as radios, stereos and tele-Yi­sions. Gassman has worked in a T'-' shop for six summers and · IS license-d in his home town of Kansas City as a technician. 
A course dealing with the finer 
points of playing pinball and a look 
at a pinball machine from the 
inside will be taught by Terry 
Buczkowski. Buczkowski is a senior 
and the manager of the Flanner 
gameroom. He was named the 
"Pinball Wizard" his freshman 
year in a pinball competition in his 
hall and has been playing for about 
six years. 
Dr. Sheridan McCabe, director 
of the Counseling Center, is teach­
ing a course on the techniques of 
making beer. "I've been making 
beer for about 15 years," said 
McCab~. 
He learned from a recipe in a book, and admits, "My first batch was terrible." Howev€r, McCabe has read other books on the subject and has perfected his technique through "trial and error." 
McCabe plans to start a batch of beer at his home before the class starts because the process normally takes about seven weeks. The course will be a "lab" held at his home where students will help his in the final processes. 
Dan McCormick, an Aerospace Engineering major, will teach a course on flying. "My father and I built an airplane about three years ago," said McCormick. 
His course will deal with the funaamentilis of flying, the qualifi­cations needed, and the procedure for getting a., license. McCormick plans to fly his plane to South Bend and have it accessible at the airport. He said he hopes to be able to take each individual student flying. 
A course on personal decision­making will be taught by Dr. Kathleen Rice, dean of student affairs at St. Mary's. She plans to spend six weeks discussing three aspects of decision-making, "con­sideration of personal values; com­ing to an understanding of the subjective nature of the informa­tion; and risk-taking characteris­tics. 
Dr. Rice teaches workshops at SMC in decision-making and also taught an entire semester of the same course in Boston. 
Other courses offered at the "Free University" include "The History of Comic Books in Ameri­ca" taught by Susan O'Rourke, "The Art of Bartending" taught by Tim Dunne, "Introduction to Mod­ern Jazz Appreciation" taught by Michael Dillon and William Boris, "Auto Mechanics for Beginners" taught by ' Charlotte Single and "Self protection and Self Defense for Women" taught by Sgt. Denis Demeter and Sgt. Joe Wolvos, of the South Bend Police Department.~ 
Course description bookh;ts will be distributed by mail Monday, Nov. 15. Off-campus students and those wanting extra booklets can pick them up in the lounge area of LaFortune Student Center. 
Registration for the "Free Uni­versity" is Nov. 18 and 19 in the Student Union offices, second floor of LaFortune. The courses are open to all students, faculty and staff members and are scheduled to start the week of jan. 23, 1977. 
"The average class size will be from 15 to 20 students," said Moran, "and registration will take place on a first-come, first-serve basis. After course has been filled extra students will be able to sign an over-flow sheet. "If there are openings, we will call the student." said Moran, "or if there ar~ enough interested we will try to teach another session." 
involved in so many off-campus 
"0 :a. (/)
activities that some students creat­
:I
ed a joke about his extensive 
~ 
travels. It went: Question: "What's the differ­
"' ~ 
II; 
"0
ence between God and Father 
~ 
... m
Hesburgh?'' Answer: "God is everywhere. 
II> 
"'.,
Father Hesburgh is everywhere but 
~. 
:I
Notre Dame.'' 
IJC 
Hesburgh is not apologetic for 
:I .,
his involvement outside the univer­
~ 
., 
II>
sity. Nor has his outlook narrowed 
Q,
in the face of criticism. 
II; 
Since 1952, he has invited the 
3 
II>
presidential and vice presidential 
II;
candidates of both major parties to 
:I 
Q,
speak at the the school -Jimmy 
~
Carter and Walter Mondale spoke 
this year-and he has proposed that 
3 
II;
.,
Notre Dame host a national confer­
--<
ence on the abortion controversy 
early next year. 
"' 
During a recent interview with The Associated Press. for instance. he pointed with satisfaction to his work in some of the world's 
.,
underdeveloped countries and a­bout plans he and others have to formulate a public lobbying group to promote world peace. 
And when he talks about import­ant things Notre Dame's students are doing these days, he quickly 
Monday, November 15, 19Z6 mentions their involvement in local 
hospitals and old age homes and a great mora·! crisis,'' he said reminds the listener that the 
during that same speech. "But I school's students were involved in 
have found few decisions that did disproportionately large numbers 
not have a moral dimension that during the early years of the Peace 
could only be ignored with consid­Corps. 
erable risk. not just for oneself. but Social issues particularly for justice whose final It is typical of Father Hesburgh's 
spokesman all presidents are." concern about social issues. "The president's situation is During the speech commemorat­unique." he added. "Presidents ing his 25th anniversary as pres­must please their conscience. ul­ident of Notre Dame, Hesburgh timately God." said. "One would hope that beyond He is aware too. however. that competence in doing something to the university president is at the earn a living. students would · e­,center of a group -of competing merge froin our institutions with interests, all of which he must try some con1passion for and commit­to please. ment to the impr<:.vement of the 
The university presidentlarger, less favored world around 
them. 
Quoting Clark Kerr. forl)ler pres­
"If we, as presidents. do not 
ident and chancellor of the Univer­show these concerns in our own 
sity of California at Berke lev. lives and works, then I doubt that Hesburgh says: . our students will take any of our ''The university president in the words very seriously.'' 
United States is expet·ted to be a 
That, in turn, reflects Hes­
friend of the students, a colleagueburgh's larger concept of amoral 
of the faculty. a good fellow with world-a concept. he believes, the 
the alumni, a sound administrator university president should advo­with the trustees, a good speaker cate and advance. with the public, an astute bargainer
"Every decision is not, of course, [continued on page3] 


0-C addresses published; dissatisfaction expressed 
by Kate Flynn addresses be unlisted and filled out

and Mary Ann Moorman 

the forms on time, now have theirStaff Reporters addresses published. 
Many off-campus students are "The Registrar's Office docs not dissatisfied that their addresses have our cards on file." claimed were published in the ND-SMC one student, "Therefore. there· s phone directory, because they no proof that we ever turned in the claim they requested that the cards." addresses be _unlisted. Another student added. "If we 
In response to the complaints, were supposed to have gotten a the Registrar's Office repeated its computer card. we did not receive previous statement: "Students who one. The whole system is wrong did not want their address and or because it is an open invitation to telephone number to appear in the thieves to rob student houses, published University directory, especially during breaks." were to report to the Office of the "We have to take everything Registrar by Tuesday, Sept. 7. home over break, and it causes a lot 1976." of trouble," complained another 
Mrs. Jurgonski of the Registrar's off-campus student. Office, said that the publication of Some suggest that only tele­the addresses was not an oversight phone numbers and not the ad· on the office's part, and that the dresses, be printed. . • office staff was surprised to receive "This would be one 'means bv only SO requests for-address dele­which the University could help tion. Last year's requests totalled prevent robberies in the off­
150. campus houses," one student re­
To the few stragglers who re­marked. "The University just quested deletions of address after doesn't take care of its off-campus the deadline, Mrs. Jurgonski ex­students." plained that the office no longer University operators will keep had control of the matter. address information of present 
However, many students who unlisted students confidential upon said they requested that their request. 

the observer Monday, November 15, 1976 

~On Campus Today--. 
1 p.m. --career workshop--"decision making" by dr. Kath­leen rice, smc rm. 170, lemans hall, sign up in career dev. center, spons. by career dev. center. ' 
2·1S p.m. --seminar--"a survey of hydrogen embrittlement" by dr. i. donovan, savannah river lab, dupont co., rm. 5 eng. bldg., spons. by metallurigical eng. & materials science. · 
l p.m. .--career workshop--"job search" by karen o'neil, smc, rm 107, lemans hall. 
l.2'i, 4 30 --accent of man series--"World within world" eng. 'i4'i p.m. aud. spons. by college of sci. 
4 lOp m --lecture--"some contributions of soc. to the econ. theory of demand" by john newton, univ. of colorado, rm 120, hayes-healy center, spons by econ dept. 
4 lO p.m. --reilly lecture series--"thermal rearrangements" by prof jerome a berson, dept. of chem., yale univ. rm. 123 nieuwland sci h~ll. spons. by chem dept. 
7 p.m --meeting--n.d. alcholics anonymous group meeting, lib. lounge. 
7!0& --film"the gunfighter", eng. aud., spons. by cinema 10 p.m 77, $1 
l:l p.m. --lecture--"after five seasons at heshbor: archeology and our christian past" by lawrence t. geraty, andrews univ., carroll hall smc, spons. by religious studies. 
With fasting, Mass 



St. Mary's to select turkeys 
by Beth Welch Stasff Reporter 
In celebration of Thanksgiving, St. Mary's junior class is sponsor­ing a First Annual Turkey Contest, this week, according to Maureen Morris, SMC junior class secretary. 
''The contest is open to the whole college apd a turkey will be elected . from each class,'' explain­ed Morris. Students and faculty may nominate any student from any class to be a turkey by filling out a nomination card in the SMC dining hall at dinner on Monday, Nov.· 15 and Tuesday, Nov. 16. ''Lists of the turkey nominees will 
rhl' Ob"•rvPr 1\ publ,~h··d Monday 
throu~h [ riddy Jnd· WE'l'kly dunng thP 'umnwr '""'on, PX<l'pt dunng th1• Pxam and vatatHm pPnod' T hl' ObwrvPr '' publ"hE'd by ~tudPnh of the Un1vPr"t\ of NotrP Damp and St Mdry·, Collt•gp Subs<nptiOn'> llldY bP pur< h,I~Pd for $20 pt>r YPdr ($10 rwr <>ernP~IPr) from ThE' Ob,Pr· ver. Box Q. Notrt• DamP, lnd1ana 4b'i'i6 5l'(Ond cia's postagP pa1d, NotrP Danw, lnd1ana 46516 
Tht> ob,Prver '' a member of the A"o< ld!Pd PrPss All rPproduct1on nghh Mt' rt'~l'rvPd 
SMC to observe Hunger Day 
by Marla Frfgyesi Staff Reporter 
Better understanding of the 
world hunger problem through 
personal involvement is t~e goal of 
World Hunger Day, Nov. 22, at St. 
Mary's. The St. Mary's division of 
the World Hunger Coalition will 
sponsor the evening of fasting, 
with the proceeds going to the 
poverty-stricken people of the 
world. 
Fifty-five cents will go to the 
Hunger Coalition for each student 
who gives up her dinner. Seventy­
five percent will go to overseas 
organizations that the Coalition 
supports, including CARE, UNI­
CEF, and Catholic Relief Services. 
The remaining 25 per cent will go 
to the poor people at South Bend. 
St. Mary's students can sign up 
to participate in the program pn 
Nov. 15, 16, and 17 outside the 
dining room Each participant for­
feits the regulat evening meal and 
is expected to attend a rice and tea 
dinner in the dining hall snack area 
between 4:30 and 6 p.m. that 
evening. Otherwise, the proceeds 
cannot go to the Colaition. 
Three SMC teachers will speak 
on various aspects of poverty, 
global injustice, and the underpri­
viledged at this special meal. Dr. 
McDonnell of the philosophy de­
partment will speak on the philo­
sophical side of global injustice, 
Ms. Kemp of the biology depart­
ment will discuss the nutritional 
aspect of the hunger problem, and 
Fr. Kraus of the theology depart­
ment will talk about the moralistic 
viewpoint. A discussion of the 
different aspects of the problem 
will follow the three talks. 
The monetary contribution to 
hunger relief organizations, reflec­
tion and awareness of the present 
social prlblem, and an emphasis on 
the educational aspect of the 
situation are the three main pur­
poses of the project, according to 


(::~d~.,~~s":~kverl 
Asst. Night Editor: Rosemary 
Mills 
layout Staff: Paula Carroll 
Editorial layout: Mike Richter 
Features layout: Chip Spina 
Sports layout: Chip Spina 
Typists: Gwen Coleman, Mary 
Ann Keefe, Karen Chiames, 
Stephanie Urillo 
Night Controller: Martha Fan­
ning 
Day Editor: Maureen O'Brien 
Copy Reader: Katie Kerwin 
Ad Layout: Tom Walrath· lPhotograph~r: Tony Chifari 
J 

the Hunger Coalition. that would make the U.S. a 
The Coalition stresses the im­participant in the World Food portance of carrying out the pledge Program. This program would set once the student has signed up to up a food reserve system that participate. Abuse of the program would retain funds to be used for only leads to confusion and contra­food in emergency or crisis situa­
diction, according to Judy McVan, tions. As a result of a nationwide a Coalition member. A mass will offering of letters las! year, re·' be held in the Sacred Heart Church questing that U.S. policy include at Notre Dame 10 p.m. the night of the right of each individual to a the fast, offered by Fr. Theodore nutritious diet, Congress is con­Hesburgh, University President. sidering the adoption of the World At this World Hunger Mass, an Food Program bill. 
"offering of the letters will be McVan urged students to show 
made.these are letters that stu­their awareness of the problem, dents have written to Washington by active participation in the World D.C., in support of the "World Hunger Day fast, rice and tea meal Food Reserve Resolution," a bill and discussion, and mass. 
Plimpton tells adventures 
[Continued from page 3] Berstein allowed him to play the· gong for the fourth movement of Tchaikovsky's Second Symphony. After a previous fiasco, in which he had enraged Bernstein with his bell-playing for Mahler's Fourth, he , said Bernstein briefed him tediously on the exact cue for his gong solo. Plimpton said Bernstein sardon­ically told him to watch him continuously, since he couldn't read the score anyway and kept turning pages at the wrong time. Plimpton said he hit the gong so hard that all the orchestra turned around to see what was going on, and that Bernstein, so rocked by the gong's vibrations, had to pause before cuing the violins. He said Bernstein approached him after the performance and said, "If Tchaikovsky could have heard you, and I am sure he did, he'd be delighted." Plimpton showed his sense of humor in telling his pitching for the All Stars in Yankee Stadium. He said he was relishing his power, on the mound until the crowd got out of hand. His next pitch was to Frank Thomas, who, he said. hit the longest. home-run ever. in Yankee Stadium. With characteristic flippancy, Plimpton explained, "I said to myself, what a feat of engineering­look what he and I have done together." Plimpton said that one of his more novel experiences was dab­~ling in the circus as a "flyer" in a trapeze act. ''The timing of flying is almost as exquisite as the Philharmonic's," he said. Plimpton told how TV producers scheduled a live performance of the circus act to per&uade him to sway by his feet in mid-air. . He quipped about his visit to a 
Philadelphia hospital for a pain shot to ease his hemmoraging shoulders right before the trapeze performance. 
"I arrived when Philadelphia workmen were getting flu shots, wearing a raincoat over leotards. The doctor asked me who I was. I said I was a flyer, which much dismayed the doctor. As I was standing there in these pink tights, the doctor said, 'No shot'­because the human body is a cathedral and you have desecrated it." 
Darby seeks help for holiday bash 
Darby O'Gill, celebrated campus canine, issued a nationwide plea yesterday requesting funds to sup­port aThanksgivingDay dinner and movie at Darby's Place. 
In a prepared statement released through -spokesman Fr. Robert Griffin, University Chaplain, O'Gill stated that he "would like to treat all his campus friends staying during Thanksgiving to a sump­tious meal of ham and turkey, but I need a little money." 
He then asked -that any "extra savings bonds, expense accounts, stocks or hard cash" be contributed to this "worthy cause." Donations should be sent to 101 Keenan Hall in care of Griffin, whom O'Gill terms as "my favorite human, although he does stay up awfully late sometimes." 
O'Gill then announced a possible double-feature film to be shown after the banquet, with the musical 1776 as a "definite showing" and OUver as a possible second feature. 
be posted in the dining hall by Wednesday, Nov. 17, so everyone can see who is running." added Morris. 
Votes will be taken in the dining hall at dinner from Wednesday until Sunday, Nov. 21. "It doesn't cost anything to nominate a turkey, but votes cost 1 cent ·apiece and students may vote as many times as they like." said Morris. 
Nancy Mogab, SMC junior class president, will announce the win­ners from each class at the Thanks­giving Banquet on Tuesday, Nov. 
23. "Though we won't say what the prizes are yet, the winners may be asked to come forth and be publicly hailed as turkeys," said Morris. 

Turkey candidates may campaign during the voting days Nov. 17-21. "They have that time to prove thier turkiness in any wav they wish," Morris said. "This is an opportunity to really be original. Maybe they could come to the dining hall dressed as a turkey," she suggested. ''This is the first time we've tried this, but we think it should be fun!" added Morris. 


GRE's to gain new section 
The GRE Aptitude Test may 
include a new section within the 
year. The additional test would measure analytical skills and would suppplememt the traditional verbal and quantitative tests. 
Like the verbal and quantitative 
tests, the analytical section would 
be taken by all students. The 
proposed new mesure reflects the 
GRE Board's concern for broaden­
ing the scope of the Aptitude Test. 
A recent GRE Board question­
naire showed that a majority of the 
faculty, administrators and 
students who responded favored 
adding a measure of abstract 
reasoning skills to the aptitude 
test. A majority also favored 
shortening the verbal and quanti­
tative te~ts to make room for the 
new measure. 
Tired of getting ripped-off? Come to the Off-Campus meeting Tuesday night, Nov. 16, and let the exper1s tell you how to avoid burglaries and housing problems. 
Guest speakers include South Bend Police Dept. and Off-Campus Housing. 




lj 
j 

Monday, November 15, 1976 
the observer 

As professional amateur 



Plimpton relates adventures 

by Kate Flynn Staff Reporter 

Perhaps George Plimpton sum­med up his own style of life last evening during an informal talk and slide-show in Washington Hall, when he quoted a high wire artist with whom he-has worked, "'Oh, but you don't understand. To be on the wire is life-the rest is \Vaiting." 
Plimpton is best known as a "participatory journalist." In a series of anecdotes he told an enthusiastic N.D. crowd of his personal experiences as an invader of the strongholds of professional football, baseball, golf, film and even symphony. 
A graduate of Harvard, where he wrote for the Harvard Lampoon, and of Cambridge, a member of the jet-set and professional amateur, Plimpton has played tennis with Poncho Gonzales, golf with Sam Snead, and bridge with Oswald Jacoby. 
He fought three rounds with ArchieMoore, who gave him a bloody nose, pitched to a seemingly endless line-up of major-league All Stars, was last-string quarterback for the Detroit Lions for exhibition games, swam against Don Schol­George Plimpton, the professional amateur, related his personal lander, and made a film with John 
experiences as a participatory journalist to an enthusiastic crowd Wayne. 
_in Washington Hall last night. [Photo by Tony Chifari]. 
SMC startssummer job program 
by Marti Hogan St. Mary's Editor 
Tired of working at McDonald's every summer? 
Well, tlhis year St. Mary's Career 
Development Center (CDC) and St. 
Mary's Parents Council are co­
sponsoring a Summer Job Program · 
for St. Mary's juniors "to offer job 
opportunities a student wouldn't 
ordinariJy. find on her own," ac­
cording to Karen O'Neil, CDC .director. 

r . "The program is particularly for hberal arts students with specific care·er goals in mind 'but with no actual experience," O'Neil explained, adding that it will act as a supplement to the student's major. 
According to O'Neil, the pro­gram will serve two purposes. It will teach students how to tind summer jobs as well as provide actual summer employment. "We have found that it's easier for students to get jobs if they've had some substantial experience before hand," she explained. 
The Parents Council is working closely with CDC to locate summer jobs around the country. "We're sending out letters to parents, 

Hesburgh career reviewed 
[continued. from page 1] 
with the foundations and federal 
agencies, a politician with the state 
legislature, a friend of industry, 
labor and agriculture, a persuasive 
diplomat with donors a champion of 
education generally, a supporter of 
the professions particularly law and 
medicine, a spokesman to the 
press, a scholar in his own right, a 
public servant at the state and 
national lt~vels, a devotee of opera 
and football equally, a decent 
human being, a good husband and 
father, an active member of the 
church. Above all, he must enjoy 
traveling in airplanes, eating his 
meals in public and attending 
public ceremonies." 
He should also be: 
"Firm, yet gentle; sensitive to 
others, insensitive to himself; look 
to the past and the future, yet be 
firmly planted in the present; both 
visionary and sound; affable yet 
reflective; know the value of· the 
dollar and realize that ideas cannot 
be bou~ht; inspirlrig 'in h'iS•vlslons: ·· 

alumnae and industries to explain the program," said Joan Adams, junior CDC business intern and co-ordinator of the program. "If they are interested in helping, they may return the card enclosed in the letter and we'll send follow-up letters." 
"I'm hoping there will be all kinds of openings," O'Neil said. She indicated that CDC was con­centrating on social service agen­cies, businesses and hospitals. Students are asked to indicate skills and career goals, as well as location preference, when they register. 
Registration cards and profile forms will be available at the junior class meeting Tuesday, 7 p.m. in Stapleton Lounge and at CDC after the meeting. Adams indicated that the program will take all juniors who register. 
''The process is to register the student by Christmas break,'' O'Neil said, "and over break we'll solicit and receive the jobs.'' In January and February, CDC will try to match the student with the jobs and location she has incidated on her registration card. The student will then be given the information and will be expected to pursue the job on her own. ''Unless the company asks us otherwise, the 
yet cautious in what he does; a man of principle, yet able to make a deal; a man with broad perspe~e who will follow the details con­scientously; a good American, but ready to criticize the status quo fearlessly; a seeker of the truth where the truth may not hurt too much; a source of public policy pronouncements when they do not reflect on his own institutions." 
If that sounds like an impossible task, then perhaps it is not so surprising that a list of college presidents Hesburgh composed in the 1950's and still carries with him on a tattered yellow slip of paper, is full of crossouts and substitutions. The most recent estimates put the average college president's tenure at 4-1/2 years. 
Many of the educational leaders 

who were deposed in the late 
1960's were Hesburgh's personal 
friends -and his anger at their 
troubles drew him into sharp 
•. .J>J,· · '[~nditded on page 6] 
company prefers the student to make her own contact to show initiaitive," O'Neil explained. 
CDC will try to find jobs in the areas in which students show the most interest. "If the majority of the students will be in Chicago for the summer, we will direct our efforts there," O'Neil said. 
According to O'Neil, the only requirement for the program is that the student complete all the CDC 
;~~~s~:~· ~;~~e~f tj:~\thi~ ~~~ fV~f<~Xf'~~'
wants, and how to follow up on it, and how to prepare a resume -the S 0 S N 

~~:~~g~£E~!;!~~;;~~1f~!.~:!
gtstermg for the program. \¥'iP At the present, the program is only open to juniors. "If we have ~ 
more jobs than juniors whore-~
gister, we will open it to _so~ho-~ mores and freshman, but Jumors Ul have first priority," said O'Neil. ~ 
The workshops, however, are~ 
~f~~;~ :~~:!u~fif~~~ ~:~o~~:::;~ ~ 
offeredthissemester,butmorewill~ 
be scheduled between January and~ spring break. ~ 
According to O'Neil, summer ~ employment is an important step in mi theprocessofcareerdevetopment,"" 
serving as an intermediary tween format education and world of work. ''The main intent of 
the program is not to get a permanent job, but to get exper­ience now and make the student more qualified for later," she 
concluded. 
For more information, contace Adams or Gretchen Obringer at 4712. 
Brademas funds itemized 
WASHINGTON [AlP] • A congres­
sional committee has released a list 
of campaign contributions to Rep. 

John Brademas, D-lnd., by Korean 
businessman Tongsun Park. 
The list itemized nearly $4,700 in 
contributions in 1972 and 1974 
which were reported under federal 
law. 
Also included was a 1970 contri­
bution of $500 which was not 
reported at the time because the 
law then did not· require such 
reports. It was disclosed, publicly 
in Octob.er, however, by Brademas. 
On Saturday The Associated 
Press erroneously reported that 
this contribution had not previ~l;l~ly 
been made public. · · · 

His experiences are recorded in his books: Tbe ."aper Uon, the best selling sports book in history, "hich was later made into a movie; Out of My League, about his pitching to the" All Stars in Yaokee Stadium: and the Bogey Man, telling of his swinging with the golf set. Plimpton has entertained readers for years with his writings for Sports IDustrated, Ufe, Bar­pers, Bookweek, etc. 
Plimpton termed himself a "Pro­fessional loser" who enters other people's occupations for books and TV. You have to know to write hte said, which explains why he has Jet himself be out-matched in a series of competitions. 
In explaining his role as an amateur among professionals, Plimpton expressed his admiration for the 'spontaneos,' the Spanish daydreamers who become posses­sed by the bull fight, but who, "for one blinding instant, play out their daydreams." 
He said the "oddities" in his­tory, like the Mrs. Florence Postel Jenkins, an amateur singer who hired her way into Carnegie Hall only to bray at a laughing audience for one-and-a-half hours, gave him an incentive to live out a sport or skill before writing about it. 
"Environment may well be the key to performance. Mrs. Jenkins s~?. she and thf audience had a 





·rnichael.!-5 · 
hair st~LinQ
etc. 

FOR APPT. CALL: 272-7222 18381 EDISON RD. AT SO. BEND AVE. 


CHRsolonSsorTsthMeA-S ~;) 
~

BAZAAR ~ 

D 7 8 & 9 ~ 
mi

ec ""~ 
-• ' '• • ~ 
Anyone Interested Ill havtng d a booth Call -4833 " or "" ~ 
"'' 

W . p Q B .d)
nte . . ox 1221 HC ~ 
good time and she went on to give 'six years in a row of that concert-at 
scalper's prices." 
Plimpton told the story of his 

start as a participatiory journalist, 
from its beginnings with hisinitiation 
rite for the Harvard Lampoon. He 
had to run the 26-mile Boston 
Marathon, not from the start, but a 
block from the finish. 
"1 entered right behind the leading man before the finish line. When he heard the pounding of sneakers coming along from no­where behind him, and saw me. fresh as a daisy. he made an extraordinary fifteen-or twenty­yard desperate sprint and won." 
Plimptor. said that when he was 

ushered into the press tent and 
discovered as an imposter, the· 
winner, a Korean who had onl) 
been in the U.S. for three weeks. 
tried "to pop him one" but wo.s so 
exhausted he couldn't lift his arm. 
From that outrageous start in the 

marathon on Commonwealth Ave­
nue. Plimpton said he vowed he 
wouldn't lead a mundane life after 
college. 
Plimpton described his mo5t frightening episode. when he play­ed in the percussion section of the New York Philharmonic. because in music, unlike sports, he says. there is no room for mistakes. ­
He told of the time Leonard 
[~ntinued on page 2] 

*The Observer 
anindependentstudentnewspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's 
The Observer is published by students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's Col1ege. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials reprPsent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions and letters are the views of their authors Column space is available to all members of the commun1ty, and letters are encouraged to promote the free Pxpression of varying opinions on campus.·.. 
Business Manager Tom Fronczak Advertising Manager Mike Miller Photo' Editor Tony Chifari Production Manager Martha L. Fanning 
Box Q, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 Phones: (219) 283-8661 [ND] (219) 284-5365 [SMC] 
EDITORIAL BOARD 
Thomas O'Neil Dan Sanchez Chris Smith Gregg Bangs Val Zurblis Pat Hanifin Bob Mader Maureen Flynn Marti Hogan Don Reimer Tim O'Reiley Fred Herbst 
Editor-in-Chief Managing Editor Asst. Managing Ed 
Executive Editor 
Executive Editor Editorial Editor Exec. News Editor Campus Editor St. Mary's Editor Copy Editor 
Features Editor Sports Editor 

Mond~y, November 15. 1976. 





A Waste of Time 
The student government presentation to the Board of Trustees' Student Affairs Committee was nearly a complete waste of time. The presentation by the Gassman regime was marked by disorganization, spoiling one of the students' few chances to deal directly with trustees. 
Frvm an on-the-scene report, The Observer has learned that this disorgani­zation took several forms. There were too many student speakers during the two­and-a half hours allot!ftd to them. Each SG speaker was dealing with his or her speciality, and some tended to ramble on too long about their pet projects. Gassman left his biggest proposal, a campus cable television system, until last. So, because of the long-winded earlier speeches, he never had the time to present it in detail. 
One particularly useless proposal was Gassman's idea to change the name of parietals rule to the "visitation rule," because "parietals" has a negative and sexual connotation. It acquired its negative connotation because the rule is unpopular with the students. The admin­istration--whatever their recent public statements-~insisted on the rule because they are afraid that 24-hour "visitation" would lead to sex. "Visitation" would quickly gain the same negative and sexual connotation as "parietals." There are severe problems with the rule, but simply making a new name for it--even as a political move--is like treating leprosy with make-up. The proposal wasted valuable meeting time. 
Organization is crucial to the success of a presentation to the trustees. The Board has considerable influence on University policy (though it is not directly a policy­
making group) and it can greatly assist the 
student body. Its support for creating the 
Committee on Undergraduate life in 1974 
is evidence of this. 
But student government has direct 
formal access to the trustes only twice a 
year and then for only a few hours at a 
time. It has to make that time count. 
Further, many of the trustees are top 
business executives who are not going to 
be impressed by rambling speeches. One 
trustee even labeled an especially vague 
comment "an insult to the Board." 
The student presentation to the board 
should have been made by only three or four speakers who coordinated their argu­ments around a few main points. The points and requests should have been .presented in descending order of impor­tance to insure that the crucial messages 
got across before time ran out. 
The meeting was not a complete loss, however. Student government did get a chance to explain the need to revive the hall judicial boards and the trustees appeared to be impressed by the work of the student drinking lobby. But in trying to cover too much ground with too little organization SG lost most of a rare opportunity: the Board will not have a regular meeting until May, after Gass­man's term ends. At least some trustees will return in January and March so Gassman and Co. will have a chance to see them again. SG will, we hope, be more organized by then. 
The Gassman regime began with high hopes; it still has great promise. But it cannot let this presentation to the Board set the standard for its other efforts if it is to fulfill that promise. 

P. 0. Box Q. 
Dear Editor: 
The article by Robert Jacques about "The Myth of Notre Dame" wan an interesting little piece. He made some good points, I guess, but what really hit me was the reeling of bitterness in his article. Specifically, I think he goes a bit Jverboprd in his generalizations 1bout ~s students. Maybe I'm ;Jrejudiced, but I don't think I'm ''obnoxious, immature, naive and ;ocially impotent." And, by look­
ng around my section here, out of !5 people I can count only 2 mmature people, 3 naive ones and !1/2 socially impotent people. 
In other words, there are some Jeople at Notre Dame whose mmaturity is unexcusable (like the erk who threw the bottle at Albert (ing), but I think most of the ;tudents here are good people. fowever, wherever you go in this vorld you will find "obnoxious" 1eople. Was Mr. Jacques hoping or a utopia when he came here as a reshman? And I don't know why acques includes "naive" in his list f adjectives. Everyone is naive to 
degree,  but  I suppose  that  is  
it-picking  on  one  word.  Sorry,  
.obert.  

Also, while I am ashamed that I .on't run five miles every day like I sed to, I feel that I a~ not quite a "pot-bellied disgrace to the species." And I don't write on bathroom walls, either. 
I can sympathize with Jacques' belief that knowledge is something regurgitated on paper. This is often true here at Notre Dame, and grades are an obstacle to learning, but this is not a problem uniqne to Notre Dame. Everyone must struggle to get a worthwhile educa­tion. I cannot agree with his statement that "understanding is an unnecessary superfluity" here. Maybe this is what Jacques be­lieves, but I don't want anyone to tell me what is superfluous and what isn't. I have learned and have 
~ 
:J 

fa m 
z 
0 
0 
c 

come to understand many things while I have been here, and I don't consider this new knowledge either superfluous or unnecessary. There is a possibility for growth but it doesn't come easy. It never does. 
I believe that Jacques article was stimulating but obsessed by a certain bitterness about life at Notre Dame. I cannot accept someone accusing me, as a mem­ber of Notre Dame, of perpetuating "fraudulence and deception." You go your way and I'll go mine, but meanwhile let's refrain from over­generalizations. 
BID Fogarty 
?HAT'S 
5TRANGf3... 
JOAN!£'5 NOT HOM£•. 
ATS&VaJIN 711&. MOJ?NJN,'f?' 

commentory!!!!!!!!!~!!!l!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 


Open Letter 
'iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii~iiiiiiiiii-gregg b. bangs 
Throughout four years of living 
in the Notre Dame "Christian 
Community", there have been 
incidents which seem to cast doubt 
on the sincerity of the administra­
tion's belief in the student body 
they take money from, provide an 
education for and supposedly care 
for. 
Most of the incidtnts dealt with 
specific individuals running afoul 
of the school's policies. The Dean 
would then say something to the 
effect that the student was not 
"good" for the community and the 
offending party would be banished 
off-campus, suspended for a sem­
ester or kicked off permanently. It 
seemed the underlying justification 
for the punishment was that this is 
a private university which can 
enforce any niles it wants and if a 
student does not like it, he can 
simply enroll at a public university. 
This year though, the incidents 
have not been few and far between; 
they have been highlighting the 
pages of this paper nearly as often 
as the recent political campaigns. 
Perhaps reading does not get 
one totally involved with student­
administration transactions. There 
is always a tendency to pass off the 
incident because you might not 
know about the people involved or 
"there might be more to this than 
we know. •• 
"In the case of myself, it took one incident to make me wonder if this University really gives a damn about their students or if they just care about the appearance of doing a good job. The Saturday night riot (and there is no other word for it) affected quite a few people. But it seems the only action to come from the University was their banning of any more "community-campus" events. Although Dean Roemer was not present Saturday night, he said (given everything he knows) security did an adequate job. As Janet Carney said in her letter, "--that's just the point. There was so much more that should have (been) done, had there been proper resources and foresight." 
But what makes the University's passing off of a few of their students getting attacked (on-earn­pus) even more disturbing is the realization that there are _other incidents to show the administr­ation is neglecting the safety of their students. Add the militaristic decisions made this semester by rectors and deans, and a student gets to wondering: What's going on around this place? A few cases in point: 
Rape. Like riots, they do occur on the Notre Dame campus. However, all one ever hears about them is that they occured. Where are they occuring? Is security doing something about them other than putting a few lights up? (And lights don't do a damn thing--most of the people beat up on Saturday night were by the bus station, which has the best lighting on campus.) It would be nice if this crime did not occur on campus, but since it does, I'd like to know what is being done about it? 
Off-campus housin_g. The Uni­versity seems to respect its off­campus student as much as a pain-in-the-neck. They originally booted students off because there · was no room on campus. Now, they kick off the "bad ones." Regardless of why students go o-c, they don't get much help. The off-campus housing office is a disgrace. Even after widespread robberies over the last two years, it appeared the University did no­thing to look into the well-being of the students they ''care so much about.'' One would think the University would appreciate their o-c students ---they have donw much to better community-Notre Dame relations than any football game ever did. 
"Care so much about." Why is. it that Notre Dame seemed to jump at the opportunity of kicking four freshman out for a semester? Regardless of what they were doing, you would think Roemer would remember these are fresh­man they are dealing with. Where 

is  the  parental  understanding  I  
hear so much ab out?  
Speaking  of  understanding,  I  

would like to congratulate the Dome for being gracious enough to give the recently expelled Sorin Seven all of four days to find off-campus housing. For some reason, neither the offenses com­mitted by the aforementioned par­ties seem as serious as rape or a beating. But it seems the Univer­sity has taken a hell of a lot of action against their students than for them. 
Which rules are more important? It seems as if the University is beginning to think their own rules are more important than those of the outside world. Most of the decisions made by the dean's office have been concerned with parietals 

. or ''hall behavior." On these issues, the University is quick to act. And when they do, they always keep the students'""offense in abstract terms--such as "parie­tals." Yet the University will look theotherway at kids simply getting drunk (assuming there's no keg of course) or smoking dope. It seems the administration cannot admit to the world that they think their students are doing wrong (that's assuming staying past parietals hours is a crime, but that's another issue). Once again, public image seems more important than the parental attitude that is (literally) a put on. 
These cases hopefully show that there is some inconsistency in the dealings of the administration. Granted, this is not the most impartial rundown of events, but after the runaround the University has given this particular student since the riot, it is not meant to be. 
I overheard a conversation under the Dome earlier this eyar in which an administrator remarked that "Things have never been better around here." Things have ap­peared to have gone downhill and I hope that particular person realizes it. I hope the same person, and other administrators, realize their inconsistancy is alienating quite a few people. I hope they realize their secrecy is offending students. And I hope they realize their "Christian" attitude has lost a few, members to the other side. 
RICK's? YOI/7H!Nk YEA!£ Yat~ SHE AND RICK .. I<18HT-7RY 
7H£ HOSP!TJ/L..
..NO.. NO, CLYIJ£, 

CAN'TB~! \ 


~------------------~-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
/ 

In the transitory world of popular music, 
·few bands have sucessfully escaped the curse of fadism to become seemingly permanent fixtures. These few have "always" been around and one of their songs is always being overplayed on AM radio. High school bands usually abuse their well-known and loved songs. Two copies of their latest album are usually given to you by your maiden aunts at Chrismas time. Chicago is one of those bands and their performance at the ACC last Saturday evening gave us a good reason for their longevity. . 
The first hint came upon entering the ACC and seeing the technical preparations for the concert. Custom-built speaker cabinets hung from the ceiling with 24 Phase Linear amps to power them. An elaborate web of theatrical lights was suspended over the stage, while neon signs punctuated the different stage levels. The set-up wasdefinitely slick, expensive and 
prof~~ssional. 
The band came on stage congratulated Notre Dame for ''beating the hell out of Alabama," then slipped right into "Begin­nings'. That was indicative of how the band handled themselves throughout the evening: talking. jiving, then sliding into the next song. They followed the opening song with some old biggies like: "Does Anybody Know What Time It Is?". "Together Again''. "Make Me Smile.". "Memories", and a rather nice "Make me Smile/Color My World" medley. Both of the night's sets basically consisted of this collection of AM hits. 
Thankfully, Chicago did break-up this onslaught of "Chicago's greatest· hits" with some new and/or non-Chicago mater­ial. Their new song "Uptown" showcased their expanded rhythm section of Danny Serphine (drums) and relative newcomer Laudis DeOiivera, on congas, tympanii and wood saw. The increased rhythm influence 




Chicago 
gives their older material a moreupdated (ie: Disco) sound. It also fortunately drowned out Terry Kath's miserable imitations of Ted Nugent on guitar. Another surprise was their version of the Beatles song. "Gotcha Get You Into l'.:fy Life", which actually sounded very good. 
. They tried the "Notre Dame Victory March", but I don't think they can hold a candle to the Marching Band's version. Other than that, it was a solid onslaught of ' biggie hits from Chicago II to Chicago X albums. 
Musical ability-wise, it was an off night for the band. Occasionally, the brass section of Pankow, Parazaider and Lough­nane would solo brilliantly, but they would, more often than not, lose track of the time or be off-key. Peter Cetera's bass usually wavered between inspired and indifferent, while guitarist Terry Kath experimented with feedback technology and terminal fuzzipess. Only the drummer, percussion­Mon~ay, November 15, 1976 
the observer 5 
ist and keyboardist did not succumb to the 
sloppiness that afflicted their fellow music­
ians. 
They told the crowd that Saturday night 
was a "unofficial tenth anniversary" for 
them. Obviously, though, they are not the 
same band that played .at Shula's back in 

[Photos by Tony Chifari] 
William S. Nichols 
August and September of 1967, having learl)ed quite a bit from being on the road for ten years. Chicago has become a slick, production-wise, show band, with the ability to keep things moving on stage at an entertaingly fast rate of speed. They please the audience through James Pan­kow's stage jive, their cheerin~ of the crowd and their well-known music. This clever stage craft has long kept them on top of a very competitive industry. 

The problem is that their well-known music is so well-known. it all sounds the same. No song stood out in my mind because they all sounded alike, just like this performance sounded like last year's performance, which was like the perfor­mance two years earlier. 
They have existed this long through professional showmanship, dedication and hard work. But somehow, they have lost their creativity. Saturday night's perfor­mance displayed that sad fact. 

An Undefeated Classic 
Director: Henry King 
Starring: Gregory Peck, Helen Westcott 
For the past twenty years, the dominant figure in Westerns has been the anti-hero. The leading characters in Westerns are no longer simple, honest cowboys and sheriffs who always do what's right and always win. Complex, troubled men, who often would have been portrayed as blackhearted villaind in previous years, are now the heros, or more accurately,· the anti-heros. Perhaps the first Western to display this new type of protagonist was henry King's The Gunfighter. 
The Gunfighter received little attention in 1950, when it was initially released. Shane and High Noon received the credit for introducing the anti-hero to the Western. However, as time went by, more people recognized that The Gunfighter not only started the trend, but was of the same high quality as its better known antece­dents. 
The plot of The Gunfighter will sound familiar to those who have seen many Westerns. A famous gunfighter, Jimmy Ringo, rides into a small town, hoping to be reunited with his wife, who left him and moved to this town eight years ago. Ringo has little time, and hes wife doesn't want to see him. to add to his troubles, a young gunslinger wants to have a showdown with him, the citizens want the sheriff to get rid of him, and a man with an old score to settle wants to kill him. All of these are stock situations for modern Westerns, but they were relatively new in 1950. 
More important than the specifics, however, is the in which 

I ~ 
I 
tragedy, with great success. skillful composition, photography, acting, King manages to inject an ever­growing sense of the tragic possibilities inherent in this story of a man trying to escape the pase he has made for himself. 
The enivronment in which King sets The Gunfighter is gloomy and cold, a total departure from previous Westerns, in which the sun always shone and winter never came. Shadows and coldness seem entirely proper in the context of the film. however, as they accentuate the loneliness of Ringo's position. King constantly shows Ringo as a man apart. Ringo spends much of the film sitting alone in the corner of an almost deserted bar. Ringo's friend's try to help, but it is as if they were living in a different world. Unless Ringo can escape his past, he is doomed to loneliness ending in death, and he realizes it. Gregory Peck gives one of the finest pertormances of his career as Jimmy Ringo. He is quiet and restrained, but has a great deal of depth to his character. Peck 
depicts the prototype of the strong, silent outcast, a character type that recurs constantly in modern Westerns, from Shane to Clint Eastwood. Peck exudes a sense of quiet des~ration and shows a full realization in makmg us feel sympathy for someone who has always been regarded as unsympathetic, the professional killer. 
King's supporting cast is also excellent, led by Helen Westcott as Ringo's wife. The cast also includes a number of familiar faces, such as Karl Malden, Ellen Corby of The Walton&, Alan Hale, and Richa!d Jaekel. 
The Ganflahter is, beyond doubt, one of the best Westerns ever made, and certainly the least known of the great Westerns. Anyone who has never seen it before should take the opportunity to see this underrated Western classic:. 
--· ----------------------------------------­
Monday, November 15, 1976
the observer 


Hesburgh discusses 25 years at Notre Dame 
[continued from page 3] 
conflict with some of the Notre Dame students. 
In 1967, he said "Notre Dame will not have its undergraduates making policy decisions." A year later. he threatened to expel 1,000 students before permitting girls to visit the dorms. 
And, in 1969, he said that anyone substituting "force for rational persuasion" would merit 15 min­utes of "meditation," followed by suspension. 
"Campus disruption was very hard to take, as the moving vans which stopped at so many homes of the university and college pres­idcnh amply demonstrat­ed." wrote George N. Shuster, a historian and one of Hesburgh's c·olkagucs. . 
"It was not easy at Notre Dame. There were days. I'm sure. when Father Hcsburgh. too, would have liked to-chuck the whole thing," Shuster continued. 
However. Hesburgh didn't "chuck it in." And toward the end of that turbulent era he seemed to adopt a more sympathetic attitude toward the student protesters and some of their causes. 
Hcsburgh has always been a staunch advocate of civil rights, speaking. for instance, on the nation's bicentennial of the "need to get more people from minority groups involved in the American dream." 
In 1970. when the Notre Dame football team made its first appear­ance in a post-season bowl game, Hcsburgh used revenues from the game to step up the school's minority recruitment drive. And today. during conversation, he makes frequent mention of the fact that the overwhelming majority of the world's population is non­white. 
1 If you don't save 25¢
·--------~ 
I on anxs~~~~a~~~rchase 1
I I
St. Mary's Collerre 




llat~thlsJ ~~~!!!~1
1when you can spend it.l 
I 
FOOD VALUE OF THIS COUPON 
I 
CELLULOSE FIBER.S Roughage 1000\ SDSR' 
CRUDE PROTEIN C•udeness 500\ SOSR WATER Chlorme 065\SDSR

I 1 
ASH D"edNtcor.netS7\SDSRJ 

I 
INK Indelible Dye 125'\SDSR LIGNIN Natural Jaundtce Color 
L:::ir_ 250\SDSR 
AIR FORCE ROTC The facts of the matter. 
With something as important as your future being discussed. it's very urgent that you get and un­derstand all the facts. Air Force ROTC can be an important part of your future, and we'd like to take this opportunity to outline some of the main facts of that matter and invite you to look further into the subject. 
The U.S. Air Force needs highly qualified dedicated officers. Both men and women. and we need people in all kinds of educational disciplines. Air Force ROTC of­fers 4-year, 3-year and 2-year scholarships with $100 monthly tax-free allowance. and cootrary to what some people think, there is no military obligation during the first two years of the Air Force ROTC. 
Upon college graduation you'll receive a commission in the U.S. Air Force and the opportunity to compete for a challenging job with advanced educational op­portunities. 
Let's get together and discuss Air Force ROTC further. We'll give you all the facts and clear up the fictions. It could be one of the most important talks you've ever had with anyone. 
For information, contact Capt. Davis 283'·6635; · 
' < ~ ;. ' • 

. . .... .. .AirForceRO.TC.' .. ' . . . ..... ,. . .·.-_ 
Still, it came as something of a shock when, in late 1969, as chairman of the U.S. Commission on Civil Rights, Hesburgh said the Nixon Administration had "ac­quiesced passively to prejudice" on housing matters. 
At about the same time, he issued a statement saying, "every kid in the country stands up and says, 'One nation, under God, indivisible.' with liberty and justice for all.' But for the Negro, there's neither liberty nor justice." 
He later resigned the position under pressure from the Adminis­tration. 
In the spring of 1970, after the United States intervened in Cam­bodia and after the shootings at Kent State and Jackson State had occurred, Hesburgh was the main speaker at a massive protest rally at Notre Dame. His speech that day was circulated among South Bend's townspeople ·and 26,000 persons signed petitions endorsing it. 
Coeducation 
His opposition to coeducation also dissolved and the change was effected in 1972. Today, he says, "having women on campus has had a settling effect. It helps make the guys less rowdy." 
Coeducation is perhaps the se­cond biggest change carried out during Hesburgh's tenure. The biggest was in 1967 when control of 
the school was handed over to laymen by the priests of the Congregation of the Holy Cross. The change had repercussions in classrooms at Notre Dame and, 
perhaps,  'in  classrooms  at  other  
Catholic  universities  around  the  
nation.  

Because during that same year as president of the International Federation of Catholic Universities, Hesburgh was creditied with draft­ing a statement by the group that read: 
"To perform its teaching and research functions effectively, the Catholic university must have a true autonomy and academic free­dom in the face of authority of whatever kind, lay or clerical, external to the academic commun­ity itself." Representatives from 600 Catholic schools from around the world attended the conference at which the statement was com­posed. 
Remarks made by one Notre Dame professor in the late 1960's reflected the changes that follow­ed. 
"Everybody knows," the pro­fessor said, "that you can't charge $3,000 a year and graduate a lot of people who love the Blessed Virgin but don't know enough physics to get a job with IBM. I remember when they read the papal encyclicals in an economics course. Those days are over." 

The school has since been active in its recruitment of young and highly regarded doctoral recipients and, by all accounts, the quality of education has improved drama­tically. 
Development programs 
In pursuit of academic. growth, Hesburgh also has headed up three successive development programs that have generated more than $100 million. Some 25 new buildings-including a 14-story, $9 million library and a $2.2 milllion radiation research center -have been constructed during his ad­ministration. 
But, in the final analysis, Hes~ burgh insists that Notre Dame will 

feedgasto 
yourcar,coinstothe tollbooths, and tsums to 
O'Hare parkingpeople? 
Alot of you fly west for vacation break. But many are in the strange habit of taking the toll road to O'Hare. Or roller skating, or something.We don't know. 
We're surprised that more beleaguered students don't take the easy way out: your handy local airport, right here in South Bend. Flying from South Bend isn't just quicker and easier. It's no more expensive. 
For example, one-way Coach air fare from South Bend to Los Angeles is only $4.00 more than the same ticket from Chicago. Now, unless you're stuffing a Volkswagen or know a way to make tolls, gas and parking disappear, it's probably going to cost')'ou at least four bucks to drive to O'Hare. It11 also cost you time and hassle. 
So take the easy way out of South Bend: United Airlines. For Friendship Service to 59 cities from South Bend, call your Travel Agent. Or call United at 232-4811. 
Partners in Travel with Western International Hotels. 
FlytheAendlyskies ofUnited. 
ViouniTec AIRLines
... '~ ' c • 
... 

' ,..... t ........ --.................. i. , ....,.,"" oloi'................ oj:"l." ~.-... ~-,~a-·-~·· ."\ ...~-
'·' 
remain a Catholic university. And he believe there is still the need for the teaching of values, even if old rules, such as requiring attendance at Mass, have been dropped. 
"The president," says Res­burgh, "should be deeply concern­ed that his students . . . have a sense of values and judge their world by reason and justice with love and not by blind emotional instinct.'' 
It is statements like those that leave Hesburgh almost alone a­mong his peers. But he almost assuredly is comfortable in that position. 
'-'The uncertain,'' says Res­burgh, "alway~ walk in a crowd. The leader most often finds himself marching single file at the lead of a think column." 


Attention Students!-­Monthly Rates Are Available at a Very Reasonable Price. For lnformationJ Contact Lenard l~uszkiewia 52939 U.S. 31 North South Bend, Ind. 46637 (219) 272 .. 1500  

~-------------~~ --~ 
... 

Monday, November 15, 1976 the observer 
score. 

Week 
Chicago turned two Green Bay fumbles into first quarter touch­

NFL roundup for season's tenth 
downs and the Packers never caught up. 

times for 141 yards to lead the list,by Alex Sachare followed by Franco Harris andAP Sports Witer 
Rocky Bleier of Pittsburgh, each of whom gained 110 yards, HarrisNew England, Pittsburgh and St. 
on 22 carries and Bleier on 20.
Lows strengthened their playoff The others were Walter Paytonhopes with big victories in Sun­of Chicago, 18 for 109; Sonnyday's National Football League Collins of Atlanta, 31-107; Mikeaction. 
Thomas of Washington, 24-106;The Patriots climbed within one Clark Gaines ofthe New York Jets,game of first-place Baltimore in the 27-103, and Chuck Foreman ofAFC East by stunning the Colts Minnesota, 17-100.
21-14 as quarterback Steve Grogan Payton became the first
ran for two touchdowns and the J runner 
New Elgnand defense held Balti­to go over 1,000 yards for the season, raising his total to 1,008 for 
more's high powered offecse score­the year. 
less for the second half. Baltimore is now 8-2 and New 
Grogan acored the winning touchdown for New England on a
En~land 7-3. Even if the Patriots don t catch the Dolphins, they are in three-yard run late in the second quarter following a roughing-the­
a good position for the AFC wild kicker penalty against Baltimore oncard bid. 
a missed field goal.
Also in the running for that wild Two interceptions by rookie Mike card spot are the Pittsburgh Haynes and a fumble recovery bySteelers1 6-4 after beating Miami Same Hunt helped the Patriots14-3. It was Pittsburgh's fifth stifle the NFL's highest scoringstraight victory· during which time team over the final two quarters.
the "Steel Curtain" defense has Pittsburgh's Harris scored on anot allowed a touchdown. Miami, 21-yard run in the second quarter,S-5, is in trouble as fara as then Reggie Harrison clinched itpost-season play is concerned. 
with a one-yard plunge in theThe Cleveland Browns and Den­
fourth period following a 63-yard
ver Broncos are also in that AFC wild card scramble with 6-4 marks. 
pass play from Mike Kruczek to Frank Lewis. 
Cleveland whipped Phlladelphla The Steeler defense had their24-3 and Denver defeated San string of three shutouts snapped,Diego 17-0. 
but has now given up just nineSt. Louis, meanwhile, squeaked points -three field goals -in its last 
past Los Angeles on Jim Bakken's third field goal of game, a 25-­five games. 
Brian Sipe completed 15 of 21yarder with four seconds remain­passes for 198 yards and twoing. That lifted the Cards, 8-2, to touchdowns and Ron Bolton re­within one-half game of first-place turned an interception for a fourth­Dallas in the NFC East and put quarter touchdown as the Brownsthem in a commanding position for posted their fifth victory in sixthe NFC wild card. 
games.
Los Angeles, 6-3-1. now feads Although Bakken's kick won theSan Francisco by just one-half game for St. Louis, it was the'game in the HFC West. The 49ers passing of Jim Hart that led thawere beaten by the Atlanta Falcons -way against the Rams. The veteran 
21-16. 
quarterback hit 20 of 33 passes for In other NFL games, the New 324 yards in outduelling LosYork Giants climbed out of the Angeles' young Pat Haden, whowinless column by upsetting Wash­
completed 10 of 17 for 172 yards,Ington -12-9; the New York Jets passed for one TD and ran for
dealt winless Tampa Bay its fourth shutout of the season, beating the 
another. Atlanta turned two fourth quar­
Bucs 34-0; Minnesota topped Seattle 27-21; Chicago beat Green ter fumbles into touchdowns on 
passes of 34 and 21 yards fromBay 24-13; New Orleans nipped Scott Hunter to Alfred Jenkins asDetroit 17-16 and Oakland downed the Falcons stunned San Francisco, 
Kansas City 21-10. Buffalo is a Dallas in the Monday 
handling the 49ers their third consecutive loss and costing them a
night game. It was a big day for running 
chance to climb over Los Angeles into first place in the NFC West.
backs around the league, with eight 
gaining over 100 yards. Don Joe Danelo kicked field goals of 30,26,and SO yards, the last with
Calhoun of New-England carried 24 
e 1v 17 eNov 17 eNov 17 eNov 17 eNov 
z 
0 
< < 
....... 
•z • ~ z 
...... 



MANDATORY 0 z 
...... 
0 
0
< < 
....... 
....... 
...... ......


Senior 
·-z •z
0 
0
< < 
....... 
.......


Trip
...... 
• 
...... 
0 
0
< < 
....... 
....... 

z MEETING •z 
...... 
......
•z •z
0 
0

< WEDNESDAY < 
....... 
....... 
...... 
......
•z NOV. 17 7PM •z
0 <
< ....... Washington Hall 0 ....... 

....... 
...... 
Complete itenerary of trip
•z •z
0 
< 
& distribution of trip packages 0 < 
....... 
....... 
...... 
...... • ,v ·17 ••Nov 17 • Nov 17 eNov 17 eNov • 
Warren Capone ran one yard for just 4:32 to play, as the Giants Dec. 4, 1963, and dropped Tampa a touchdown after recovering a snapped their nine-game losing Bay to 0-10 for the season. fumble by Detroit punter Herman streak. The winning boot was the Fran Tarkenton completed 26 of Weaver in the fourth quarter, 11th field goal attempt of the 31 passes for 274 yards against the giving the Saints their upset of the game, tying an NFL record, with spunky Seahawks, including the Lions. Mark Mosley accounting for all of game-winning touchdown on a Denver shut out San Diego for 
the Redsins' points on kicks of four-yard pass to Stu Voigt with the second time this season. Steve 41,31 and 32 yards. 4:52 to play. Ramsey completed 19 of 33 passes Joe Namath, seeing his first Cincinnati, 8-2, kept its two­for 224 yards, including a 59-yard action in three games, came off the game lead in the AFC Central as touchdown to Rick Upchurch. bench to trigger a first-half scoring Ken Andt;rson hit Isaac Curtis on a Oakland raised its record to 9-1 . 
burst that accounted for 17 points 43-yard touchdown play with 42 best in the NFL, with its fifth in a little over a period. The seconds left to beat Houston. straight victory behind Ken Stabler shutout was the Jets' first since a Anderson passed for 253 yards and who threw two touchdown passes 
17-0 blanking of Kansas City on three TDs and ran for a fourth to raise his season total to 20. 


ND icers split pair with Michigan 
[Continued from page 8] the two Michigan penalties in the second of the night to even the Kawa, and Kip Maurer before Ray 
score once again. But the turning
game, Clark Hamilton deflected a Johnson got his first goal of the Brian Walsh shot to bring the Irish point of the game came when Kris year. Kris Manery continued his within one. Terry Fairholm follow­Manery put Michigan up 6-5 with hot play against Notre Dame and ed with .his fourth goal of the year scored with less than a minute left
3:38 remaining. and the Irish were right back in it With 1:18, Smith pulled goal­in the peroid to cut the Irish margin 
at 9:45 of the middle period. tender Peterson for an extra at­
to 4-3. Kris Manery, the eventual first tacker and lost the gamble when In the third period, Gary Morri­star of the game, beat Len Moher Biii Thayer got what turned out to son and Brian Walsh exchangedbe the game winner at 19:06.
less than two minutes later, but goals in the first 15 minutes, but Jack Brownschidle got his first goal With the extra attacker on the ice Kip Maurer got his second goal of and after Jack Brownschidle turned 
of the season before the period the game to send the contest into ended to even the score going into away a good scoring opportunity sudden death overtime. Michiganthe third period. with a save that kept things alive goalie Frank Zimmerman had some 
At 15:48 of the second period, for the Irish. Geoff Collier scored anxious moments in the waningNotre Dame lost netminder Len with 14 seconds remaining but it 
minutes of the third period when a 
wasn't enough as the Irish ran out
Moher to the penalty box for Clark Hamilton slap shot rang off 
of time and ended up the loser, 7-6.
conversing too much with the the post, but that was as close as linesmlln over a goal which was Saturday night Brian Walsh the Irish got to winning it in kicked in by a Michigan player past aided Notre Dame with his second regulation.
hat trick of the season and the sixth 
Moher. The goal was eventually Then with 2:54 gone in overtime, disallowed, but John Peterson had of his career as the Irish won in Steve Schneider flipped a shot by to enter the game cold, a big overtime,6-S. Sophomore center Zimmerman to give Notre Dame disadvantage for a goalie. Peterson Steve Schneider split the W olver­the victory. The overtime win gave 
responded with several saves from ine defenlJe to give the Irish a 6-5 
Irish goalie Len Moher a 7-0-2 this point to keep things going for win and a split of the series. record in overitme sincd his fresh-Notre Dame. Notre Dame was out in front, 3-0, man year. • 
The final period continued in the on a goal by Terry Fairholm in the Notre Dame takes on Michiganfirst period and two by Brian
pattern of the first two with Tech this Friday and Saturday at Wheeler 'scoring for the Wolverines "Duke"· Walsh. But Michigan home with game time 7:30 p.m. 
before Clark Hamilton got his roared back with goals by Ben Friday and 8:00p.m. Saturday. 

lnterhall b-ball ·*observer meetings set 
An organizational meeting for men's interhall basketball will be held on Tuesday, November 16 at 
4:30 in the ACC Auditorium. All 

coaches and captains must attend. Also, anyone interested in offi­•




sports 
ciating at interhall basketball games, a paid position, should report to the ACC Auditorium at 
4:30 on Wednesday, November 17. 
Notices 

Texas Instrument SR-50 for sale. Half year old. $45.00. Call 1196 Tickets for THE J. GEILS aAND.'cz 
evenings. JAMES GANG concert Friday Nov ember 19 at Kalamazoo's Wing~ BOOK SHOP. Used books. Student~ 
QSSJi/l.Je ·d Ads 

Stadium are now on sale at the Rive paradise. Open Wed., Sat., Sun City Review ticket outlets: Boogi 
9-7. Ralph Casperson Books, 1303 

Records (College Square) and Jus . . 
Buchanan Road. Niles, Mich.

for the Record (1 00 Center). To the bstd. who stole Calif. license 683-2888 . 
---------------plate 565 JMV I want it back! Call . MORRISSEY LOAN FUND 1747. 
FOR SALE: Sherwood S-7225 stereo

$20-150. 1 day wait. 1 percent --------------­
receiver, Realistic Lab-14 turntable,interest. Cue in 30 days. LaFor-Lost: At Campus View apts. Fri. 

2 MC-1000 speakers. stereo headtune Basement. M-F 11:15-12:15. nile, Nov. 5, a light tan suede winter phones, and cabinet. S250 or bes 

---------------coat with white sheepskin lining. If 
offer. Call Curt at 8711 after 5:00.

Accurate, fast typing. Mrs. Donoho fount, contact Jim (3210) no ques­232-0746 Hours: 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. lions asked. Reward . 
Excellent opportunity for NO stu­dent business-Record Shop sold Do you walk to school or carry your LOST: SMC gold class ring engrav­complete. Unbelievable price. Call 

lunch? If the answer is yes then you ed with Mary Esther Hall, BS, '78. 232-0000. need a Pizza Sagle made to yout Reward if found. Call 4524. specification. Tonight 8-11 p.m. SMC's Snack Bar. 
Personals

Wanted Will do typing: themes, manu­
Klucks, Happy Birthday. Love,scripts. Call 287-5162. Girlfriend needs ride from N.J. to Tea De Bear

NO for Thanksgiving break. Call Any senior interested in working on 3408. RNG, Quit abusin!l our roommale!! the St. Mary's and Notre Dame G & B ­
Senior formal committee should Need ride to Colum\Jus, Ohio over attend the Senior class meeting Thanksgiving break. Can leave as To it concern Happy
Hu(lh mayWednesday at 4:15 p.m. first floor early as Tues. (23 I share driving & 19th Birthday!!-! Your Southem 

Hayes-Healy. expenses. Call Tim at 1658. 
Comfort 

Free kitten-S mo·. old. Box trained. Needed: 2 tickets to Doobie Bros. 
The "Indiana Banana" is comin[l.
Call Janet 8113 . The Indiana Banana is of no relat•on Call 234-9666 . 

Need ride to Iowa, Dubuque-Cedar 
to our beloved Bananovic. 
For Rent Rapids area, for Thanksgiving break. Will share expenses. Call 
Killer Klucka, Happy Birthday,

Will rent my upstairs. $40.00 mo. John 1723. PattyGirls only. Call 233·1~29. Miami football (GAl tix wanted. 
Happy Birthdat (Baby), Theresa 

Need two or three roommates for 5 Need block of 4-6 tickets. Phone Ray bedroom house with fireplace. 288-2323. 
Watch for the coming of the 2100OPENNING immediately or for next CLUB to Notre Dame. 

semester. $40.00 monthly plus utili!-· Desperately need 2 GA tix 'for ies. Call 288-5661 alter 6. Miami. Call Peggy 4-4381. 
Ecco, Jenny! How's your g.string? Casey Boys.
Need ride to MSU on Friday Nov. Lost & Found 19. Call Nick 8225. 
I'll blow you a million kisses toni!lhl honey. Love, Care 

LOST: between Farley and D-1 4 barmaids for the GRANO OPEN· J)arking lot. A gold and purple lNG of Notre Dame's 2100 CLU8 
A belated Birthday wish to the

~~i~.:__~~~s~~~a~_5~~~~8 . Comic Keeper at Campus Ministry. Lost: A brown shoulder bag, in the Help! I'm homesick! Going my way mlf South Dining Hall, West Side. Call for Turkey Day? Syracuse, New 
Karen 7951. Reward. York. Call Karen 6737'. Today Is Francis Fleclderman'i 
(Farley's "Miss Southern Com­If you picked up the wrong camel fort,") birthday! Give her a kiss or hair jacket by mistake at Morris­For Sale 18 birthday spankings. She's ex­sey's Campus View party, Sat. Oct. pecting.to be thrown .in the lake, so this Sat. Call Carl 3038. 
30, please call Shannon 5150 SMC. Miami GA fix for sale. Kevin or Jack let's not dis appoint her. 
I've got yours-reward for mine back. 1816. ,___________ -­
Happy Blrttlc:tay Fr.., 


.-----------------------~-----------------------------------------------------------­
.. 
8 the observer Monday, November 15,,1976 Irish on top 7-0. 11, 21-10. ponded with two crucial runs to 
by Fred Herbst On their next possession Slager The tide narrowed the deficit to keep the Irish from being forced to Sports Editor 
led Notre Dame down the field 60 21-18 on the first play of the fourth punt from deep in their 6wn yard, using the running of Vagas period when quarterback Jeff Rut­territory. The plays allowed Notre Ferguson and AI Hunter, to a ledge hit Newsome on a 30-yard Dame to maintain control of the

IRISH 
Like a man clinging to a ledge on touchdown as Hunter scored from scormg pass and Newsome ran for ball, and importantly the clock. 
the hundredth floor of the Sears two yards out. That gave the Irish the two-point conversion on an end Ferguson gained 107 yards rush­Tower for his life, Notre Dame 

a 14-0 with nine minutes to play in around. ing for the Irish in his first startSTEM~~~~g:! t~v~~~~~~~;~~~rday for a the first half. From then on, it was just a ever, and first game at fullback. He Stu the Crimson Tide ans-uestion of whether or not the Irish had been a halfback until this week 
After roaring to a 14-point ad­vantage, the Irish were hard-pres­sed to turn back the surging Tide in the second half. It was the fourth 

BAMAh~~s;a~r~~v~og!:~et~a~o~~~~o~~~~ 
the second half. In fact, the Irish have only managed a single field oal in the second half of those four 
games. 
"The fact that we've not scored in the second half in our last four games doesn't concern me in the slightest,'' Notre Dame head coach Dan Devine said. "We've just had 



TIDE 
bad field position in the second half and we haven't been 5etting the breaks. Besides, we've won three of the four." 
The Irish opened the scoring· the on the first play of the second
21-18 
quarter as quarterback Rick Slager 
connected with Dan Kelleher on a 
56-yard scoring strike to put the 

Chip Spinat::::i:::::,:·:;·;~:::;.:::::::::::::=:=::==:::::::::;:==========================================-================== 
A Win is a Win 
What do we eat? What do we eat? Bear meat! Bear meat! 
The following conversation is fictional to the extent that neither person really exists. However, the topics and opinions involved reflect those heard around campus after Saturday's thrilling Fighting Irish upset of Alabama's Crimson Tide 21-18. Rah-rah: Hey, what did you think of that game today? Great win for the Irish. eh? Skeptic: Yeah. I'm sure glad we hung on to beat Bear Bryant. But I'll tell you, we were awful lucky. Rah-rah: Oh, come on. We destroyed them in the first half. Why, except for those two little mistakes we'd have been ahead 31-7. And we out-gained 'em 365 yards to 147 in the half. Hunter had 71 yards and Slager was 12 for 19. They were lucky to be in the game. Skeptic: I'll admit we were awesome for those first two quarters. But that's the thing. It's been that way for a month now. We look great for the first half and fall asleep for the next 30 minutes. We only gained 119 yards to 'Barna's 254 in those last two quarters, Hunt only got 19 more yards and Slager and Lisch passed only six times after the passing game had gotten us 208 yards for that first 30 minutes. Rah-rah: Well, we won anyway. And a win is a win. 
Florida oranges, Texas cactus 


We play 'Bamajust for practice wered on their next possession. could hold off the rolling Tide. in practice. Hunter added 90 yards 'Barna quarterback J,ack O'Rear Later in the contest Alabama drove on the ground while Lisch piced up used the optionplay to perfection as deep into Notre Dame territory. 37 on four carries for Notre Dame.
Rah-rah: That was Coach Devine's biggest win here. He did a great job, he kept the ball four times_ for 39 Rutledge passed to Thad Flanagan Slager was 15 for 23 and 235don't you think? 
yards, but the highlight of the drive for 14 yards to the 'Barna 34. Tony yards for Devine's charges. andSkeptic: I think it was a total team effort that won the game. They was a 24-yard pass from O'Rear to Nathan then broke loose for 18 to was voted ABC's offensive playeronly had pride going for them today, but it was enough. Why, that Ross Ozzie Newsome to put the ball on the Irish 48. Rutledge then of the game. Rutledge was 13 forBrowner looked possessed, chasing down those 'Barna players. I've never the Irish 11. Irish defender Luther connected with Newsome again, 24 and 207 yards for the Tide. 
seen him so quick. You know he got the ABC Defensive Player Award? 
Bradley was called for interference this time on a 37-yard bomb to put Ross Browner led the NotreAnd how about Jimmie Br<?wner's game-saving interception? And Vagas on the play. but Newsome made a the ball on the Notre Dame nine. Dame defense with 12 tackles as hehad 107 yards rushing. And MacAfee had six catches for 92 yards ... 
remarkable catch that allowed the Suddenly the Irish were in was named ABC's defensive player Rah-rah: Yeah. but Coach Devine performed a miracle, bringing them Tide to refuse the penalty. Three serious trouble with just over four of the game. Browner also claimed back from that loss to Tech to upset tenth-ranked Alabama. 
plays later, O'Rear kept around minutes to play. the all-time Irish record for tacklesSkeptic: Well, I'll tell you what I think. I think that old Bear outcoached right end from the one to cap the On second and goal from the for losses as he recorded his 20thDevine. Why. if that Jeff Rutledge had looked to his right on that play in 77-yard drive and Alabama was on seven, Rutledge's pass over the during the tilt.
the fourth quarter Bryant would be a winner right now. They had a guy 
the aboard, trailing 14-7. intercepted
wide open in the end-zone. Rutledge's miscue saved Devine a lot of grief. middle was by Jim While the win was an importai}t 
the prove

And maybe he deserves it. Because he sat on that lead again. And I'll tell Notre Dame came back immedi­Browner and the game belonged to one to Irish, it may 
ately to score as they drove 72 Notre Dame. On the play, halfback costly. Rick Slager, left the gameyou.those people in the stands were very apprehensive at halftime about yards in 10 plays to re-take a Pete Cavan had cirled out of the with what was feared to be athe lead and they were right. I've never seen such conservative football. 
14-point lead on Ferguson's 17-backfield and was wide open in hte shoulder separation. It was laterFour games in a row he's tried to sit on that lead. We've scored three yard dash to paydirt. The half right corner of the endzone, waving found to be a severe shoulderpoints in the last four games in the second half. Even Paul Hornung on ended, surpisingly, with the Irish frantically to Rutledge. Rutledge bruise, but he is still a -veryTV said he couldn't believe the way we play in the second half. I don't like 
in command 21-7. never looked his way, and Notre doubtful starter for this Saturday'sit. I don't think it's very smart. It cost us a game last week, and almost "We played like we were child­Dame came away the victor. game. Offensive tackle Ernieone again this week. 
ren in the first half," 'Barna "I tried to force it," Rutledge Hughes suffered a sprained ankleRah-rah: Quit complaining. Like Devine so often says, last week was last mentor Bear Bryant said. ''It said. "I didn't see Pete Cavan. in the game, and is also doubtfulweek and this week is this week. We won, and that's all that matters. 
looked like a dummy scrimmage." Everyone told me he was wide for thi'i weekend. 
Nobody thought we could, but we did. We showed you non-believers. 
If looked "dummy I to get

Who cares how much we won by? It's the thrill of victory that's important. it like a open. tried to Thad 
scrimmage" in the first half to Flanagan. It was my fault."
Why, we might even get a bowl bid out of this_. You just got to love the Bryant, it had to look that way to While it was Slager who gave the way we put it to old Bear. I'm happy for the team. I'm happy for the Devine in the second half. Irish their lead, it was reserve The win was the third in as manycoaches. And mostofall I'm happy for us because we were all able to rise Midway in the third quarter, quarterback Rusty Lisch that held it outings against the Crimson Tide foto the occasion and whup up on them Dixie boys. 
Barry Krauss intercepted a Slager for Notre Dame. After Slager was the Irish, as they have won theSkeptic: Hey, don'tget me wrong. I'm just as glad as you are for the win. 
pass to set up a 38-yard field goal forced to leave the contest with an games by one, two and threeBut if our coach doesn't wake up and realize football lasts 60 minutes, our by Bucky Berrey to close the gap to injury, Lisch came on and res-points.
luck is gonna run out like it started to last week. I don't know. But 
we'll find out where we really stand in LA in two weeks. · Rah-rah: Yeah, I can't wait for that one. We're gonna ring Ricky's Belli Skeptic: We'll see, we'll see... I sure hope so. 
ND icers travel to Ann Arbor, 

Go back, go back, go back to the woods Your coach Is a farmer and your team Is no good 
split weekend series 6-7, 6-5 
by Cblp Scanlon his head. Notre Dame was whistled perennial Irish nemesis Dave Debol 

"'''"'''''''''"''''"'''''' 
Sports Writer for 10 penalties including two 10 scored the first of two pretty tipins And just to conclude this weekend of m\racles, those Wildcats (yes, minute misconducts to Don Jack­he collected in the game.

they're the Wildcats again) of NU utterly blasted MSU's Spartans 42-21. 
Notre Dame's Irish leers showed son and Len Moher. Early in the second period with 

John Pont probably won't have to fire himself now, and the team's record number-two ranked Michigan that It was a seesaw battle Friday Ray Johnson in the box for highsurges to 1-9. So much for the 15 game streak. Looks like High and Inside they are a team to be reckoned night with the lead exchanging sticking, Debol got his second goal will need a new klutz team of the week. Well done, Northwesterners. with as they split at Ann Arbor this hands five times. Brian Walsh of the night on the power play. But And for those of you in our illustrious student body who can't take a weekend, 6-7, 6-5. scored for the Irish half-way a little over four minutes when 
joke, rumor has it that a new course, Learning a Sense of Humor, will soon Friday night the Irish were through the first period to erase a Greg Matale was sent off for one of be offered. Seems there's an awful lot of people who just don't like to involved in an odd game that still 1-0 Michigan lead. But before the laugh around here. Too bad. They should try it, it's fun. has head coach Lefty Smith shaking period could come to an end, [Continued on page 7] 

Ross B~owner ~ad a great day and got ABC's Defensive Player of the Game Award while Bear Bryant cm~ged h1s way thru the afternoon proceedings as the underdog Irish dumped Barna's Cnmson T1de 21-18. [Photos by Paul Clevenger] 
\:•_· .
;,. ··-.,,' 
·· ..~ 
..JI 





