
Filipinos hijack DC-8 

WASHINGTON (AP) -.Jimmy C;trtcr picked up 17 Democratic national convention delegates over the weekend to widen his lead in the race for his party's presidential nomination. 
The gain at district conventions in Iowa Saturday gave Carter a total of 2S8 delegates to 177 for Sen. Henry M. Jackson of Wash­ington. wl{o did not receive any of the 40 Iowa delegates chosen. 
Ten of the delegates went to Rep. Morris Udall, D-Ariz., to bring his total to I2q, and II of those sclcl'lcd were uncommitted. Former Oklahoma, Sen. Fred Har­rio,;, who has stoppl·d active cam­paigning. won two of the delegates to give him a total of IS. 
It takes l.SOS delegates to win the Democratic nomination. 
On the GOP side of the ledger Mississippi Republicans selected 30 delegates Saturday but these 
M. . . 

ISSIOO. ~~V 
.()0 S  survey of Notre Dame's social life in today's issue. Your mission, readers, if you  
~""  choose to accept it, is to complete  
"\..~  this survey, found on page 3, and return  
~  it to the Observer via the dining hall ballot  

boxes, or via the mail. As usual, readers, i{ any of you are caught or killed, the Observer will disavow any knowledge of your activities. This page will self-distruct in 10 
seconds. Turn to page 3. Good luck, readers. 
UANGKOK Thailand (AP) ­Three Filipino Mo~lcms holding 10 ho~tagc~ flew out of Bangkok aboard a Philippine Airlines DC-8 jet Monday morning. and author­ilk~ said thcv were headed for a stopover in karachi en route to l.ibva. 
Thai oflicials said the jet took off 
at 10:41 a.m. and that the !light to 
Karad1i would take three hours. SO 
minutes. 

The gunmen, using their hos­tages as shields, walked across about 500 vards of runwav from the 'hort-r;tnge HAC-Ill jet to the waiting long-range DC-8. Armed Thai police reportedly stood by ;tbout 80 yards from each of the two ain:raft. Nt·wsmcn were forbidden to go ncar lht• transfer point for 'l'curity reasons. 
The ofticials said the hijackers 1hen rcll'ased I 0 of the hostages setted wht•n they took over the plant• Wednesday. They kept only the chid pilot of the BAC-111 and th_e . vice prcsidt•nt of Philippines Atrltne~ (PAL), along with eight lTl'W members of the DC-8 which had flown in Sunday night from Manila at the demand of the hijackers. 
The take-off ended 71 hours of negotiations. waiting and unsuc­cessful stalling tactics at the airport here. 
Philippine Ambassador Manuel 
T. Yan told newsmen he under­stood Karachi officials would let the DC-8 land and that there was no flight plan beyond that. 
Yan said that Libya, where the hijackers insisted ori being flown, had given no assurances of a haven. 
Yan told newsmen Sunday night that the gunmen had pulled pins on two grenades to demonstrate their seriousness before the PAL DC-8 was flown in for them. 
He had said earlier that the DC-8 would stop in Calcuta to refuel after leaving Bangkok. 
The hijackers had seized -the BAC-111 during a flight over the southern Philippines. They claimed they were Moslem mcrnbcrs of the Morn Liberation Front. 

Carter ga1ns 1n Iowa 
were all uncommitted so totals in that nomination race remain un­changed. 
President Ford is on top with 2SI delegates while challenger Ronald Reagan has 84 and I% are uncom­mitted. It takes 1.130 delegates to win the GOP presidential nod. Among the Democrats a number of favorite sons and others have also collected delegates, as has Sen. Hubert H. Humphrey. al­though he is not a declared candidate for President. Humphrey has six delegates, while Illinois Gov. Daniel Walker has four, anti-abortion candidate Ellen McCormakc. 2: Pennsylvania Gov. Milton Shapp. I; Idaho Sen. Frank Church, 2; Indiana Sen. Birch Bay h. I; and Illinois Sen. Adlai Stevenson. 85. California Gov. Edmund Brown .Jr. has yet to win any delegate support. 
s<J..v<v ...~;~~
NotreDame. The Observer has a 

15,000 already dead 



Moslems extend cease-fire 
BEIRUT. Lebanon (AP) -Leftist Moslem leaders agreed last night to extend the shaky cease-fire until the end of April to give more time for a political settlement in Leba­non's year-long civil war. 
Overall Moslem chieftan Kamal Jumblatt made the announcement as mortar and grenade explosions thundered over Beirut's downtown hotel district and sporadic clashes flared elsewhere in the country. Police said 56 pesons were killed and 25 persons kidnapped through­out the day. 
J umblatt earlier complained two more Syrian battalions had entered Lebanon's mountanous border re­gion, bringing the total Syrian commitment here to 5,000-6,000 troops. Previous estimates have out the number at about 2,000. 
The troops arc believed to be trying to prevent arms from reach­ing the warring factions As­syrian President Hafez Assad pres­sures for a settlement of the year-old civil war that has killed IS.OOO persons. 
Jumblatt said he has demanded an explanation for "excessive Syr­ian military presence" in Lebanon from special U.S. peacemaking envoy L. Dean Brown. After long warning against Syrian military intervention, Washington has tacit­ly backed Damascus' limited mili­tary moves so far. 
Jumblatt called for a "freeze" in Syrian, French and American med­itation at least until parliament elects a replacement for President Sulciman Franjieh. The Syrian­imposed truce was to have ended at noon today. S a.m. EST. 
"But even then, the cease-tire can never be endless.'' said Ibra­him Koleolat, leader of Junblatt's largest leftist militia, the Ambush­ers. "Unless Franjich's replace­ment is completed shortly, we will have to decide the situation on the basis of a vistor and a vanquished.' 
Parlaiment amended the consti­tution Satuday to allow immediate election of a new president. But Franjieh, a stubborn Maronitc Christian, has yet w sign the 
amendment as required by law and 
has given no public indication 
whether he will actually step down 
even if parliament elects a replace­
ment. 
Reliable reports say the Syrian soldiers · some disguised as Pales­tinian guerrillas from the Syrian­backcd Saiua group -arc helping to set up an arms blockade against leftist Lebanese Moslems, their Palestinian allies and Christian private armies. Syrian gunboats arc known to be patrolling the coast to prevent arms deliveries by sea. 
"No one asked the Syrians to intervene," .lumhlatt complained during a television interview Satur­day night. "But the Svrian armv did, at a timl' when we ;;re nearing a solution and our Svrian brothers arc supposed to hcip us rather than escalate trouble." 
U.S. President Gerald Ford said Saturday no party in the Lcbane~c conflict has taken anv "rash action indicating at least ta~·it U.S. accept: anec of the growing Syrian involve­ment. 


un1versity of notre dame sf mary's college Vol. X, No. 118 Monday, April 12, 1976 
Emphasizes counseling 

CAP implements programs 
by Cathy Nolan Staff Reporter 
To increase its value and rele­vancy for the students. The Com­mittee on Academic Progress (CAP) has implemented several changes in the program, according to Professor Gerhardt Niemeyer, CAP chairman. The change, stressed Niemeyer, is a return to the program's original conception. 
The program was originally de­veloped as a 'device to unfold the potential of excellent students." The program eventually grew to be a counseling service and advisory facility for the students, Niemeyer 
stated.  
"In  the  source  of the  years,"  
Niemeyer  said, "the  various  de­ 
partments  in  the  college  have  

initiated advisory programs, simi­lar to the service offered by CAP." The increase in advisors available to the students has diminished the effectiveness of CAP. Micmcyer explained. 
The need for change in the program was made evident to the CAP steering committee with the resignation of three CAP advisors. ·'When three professors, all of whom were doing excellent work, resigned as advisors. it was clear to us that change was necessary," Niemeyer commented. 
The CAP steering committee. which meets twice a year. selects the CAP faculty. Members of the committee include the deans of the College of Arts and Letters and several faculty members. Mem­bership on the committee is per­manent. 
The goal of the committee, Miemeycr said, is twofold. First, the committee plans to reduce the number of faculty members and students in CAP. Presently there arc sixty advisors and seventy students in CAP. secondly, the committee hopes to intensify the counseling relation­ship between the advisors and the students. "Many students no longer consult with their advisors about their program of study," Niemeyer stated. "The only time they would go to sec their advisor is when they had to have their form-50 signed.'' 

One of the functions of CAP is to help the students with pre-rcgiatra­tion. Previously, the CAP advisors would ask the Arts and Letters departments for a list of courses which tended to close out quickly. They asked that a percentage of cards be set aside for CAP students 
"We began to realize," Niemey­er pointed out,· 'that simply be­cause there is a great demand for a class, the class will not always be worthwhile." The departments often overlook many good classes because there was no demand for them, Niemeyer continued. The committee is now asking the de­partments for a list of "worthwhile classes", regardless of popularity. 
To strengthen the advisor-stud­ent relationship, the student must now consult with their advisor before choosing classes. The students will no longer receive a 

Bleier returns to ND 
Senior Class Fellow Rocky Bleier will appear to speak and receive a plaque in honor of his award from the Class of '76 tonight at 8:00 in Washington Hall. The ceremony will highlight a day of activities planned for Bleier's visit. 
After a noon arrival, Bleier will 

list of approved CAP classes. The 
list. compiled by the Arts and 
Letters departments, arc sent only 
to the advisors. 

If a student fails to meet with his advisor before preregistration be­gins, he will be dropped from the program. "Students will not be able to have their form-SO's signed without having discussed their plans with their advisors,'' Nie­meyer said. 
For the first time, Niemeyer added, students who study abroad sophomore year will be admitted to CAP . In the past, these students were eliminated from joining the program. even if they had the necessary qualifications. 
Also, CAP students will now receive student advisors as well as faculty counselors. Juniors and seniors, selected by the CAP faculty members, ~ill counsel freshmen and sophomores about CAP and the university in general. Niemeyer stated. 
(continued on page 5) 
have lunch with the Senior 
Fello 
committee, the Senior Class offi 
cers and university officials. 
lowing lunch, Bleier will tour 
Logan center, which he 
create while a student at 
Dame. 
Bleier will eat dinner South Dining Hall at 5:30, to allo the seniors to meet their choice. 
Following the presentation of th Senior Fellow award, a reccptio will be held at the Senior-Aiumn· club, and a plaque engraved with the names of all Senior Fellows will be presented to the club's manage­ment. 
Senior Class President Augie Grace praised the work of the s~nior fellow committee, headed by Brll McCauley. Grace indicated that he was "very pleased" with the choice of Bleier, and cited substantial voter turnout as evi­dence of the committee's fine work.. 

• f 
the observer Monday, April12, 1976
2 
$24.8 billion paid out 

---News Briefs--......_. 



Family welfare rises in '75 

=======================================Nation
' 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The na­The department has the annual welfare families headed by unem­tion's family welfare expenditures figures available but did not issue ployed fathers, a program now in soared by 21.4 percent last year. them as it had in past years because operaton in 28 states.
,Strikers appeal to candidates 
I 
partly because of the growing of the political sensitivity of the About 30.000 unemployed-father NEW YORK--Newswriters, technicians and other employees on 
ranks of jobless fathers, the gov­welfare issue in an election year, families joined AFDC rolls in 1975. strike against the National Broadcasting Co. appealed yesterday to 
ernment said yesterday. informed sources said. HEW said, for a new total of all political candidates not to appear before the network's earners 
A record $24.8 billion was paid In response to a query, HEW 120,000 families with 527,000 re­out in 1975 for Aid to Families with said a cumulative total of 266,000 cipients.

• and microphones and to deny NBC a place at their pressIconferences and briefings. 
Dependent Children. AFDC, Med­families were added to AFDC rolls Families headed by mothers still icaid for the poor and relief in 1975, an 8.3 per cent increase to formed the bulk of the AFDC rolls. programs run by state and local nearly 3.5 million families. however, The government said


Ford influential 
governments. The number of individual AFDC there was a cumulative increase in recipients increased by 479,000 . a that category of 236,000 familiesWASHINGTON--A survey of 1,400 distinguished Americans 
The Department of Health, Edu­
4.4 per cent increase to more than with 361,000 new welfare benefici­conducted by U.S. News & World Report has ranked President Ford 
cation and Welfare issued a news 
11.3 million persons, indicating aries. most of them childrem.
the nation's most influential person. 
release focusing on family welfare 
that the average welfare family of General assistance programs.
statistics for last December which 
today has fewer members. run by state and local governments
rose over the previous month but a 
The biggest jump was the 33.6 without federal matching funds,


Callaway testifies 
<~.! a lower rate than the same 
per cent increase in the number of added 145,000 families last year.
month a year earlier. 
That was a 27.8 per cent increase toWASHINGTON--Howard H. Callaway, who resigned as President 667,000 families with 965.000 re­Ford's campaign manager, testifies today before a Senate 


Patty Hearst rna;' testify 
cipients.
subcommittee investigating whether he improperly influenced the The HEW figures showed theForest Service to expand his ski resort. 
nation's total public assistance


against her fugitive friends 
outlavs rose from $17.7 billion on

Half a million perish 
SAN FRANCISCO (APJ-Patricia He said Miss Hearst's main 
1973 · to $20.4 billion in 1974 and Hearst. facing a maximum penalty concern now is that she might $24.8 billion in 1975 . 
.'JEW YORK--Half a million Cambodians have perished since the today of 25 years in prison for receive a long prison sentence. The largest inneases in theKhmer Rouge regime took power in Cambodia a year ago, Time 
armed bank robbery, is willing to "She's apprehensive. concern-spending figures were 34.8 permagazine said yesterday. The number of persons who have been testify about the criminal activities ed. worried that the judge might cent to $43.9 million for paymentsexecuted or died of disease or starvation amounts to about one-tenth of he~ one-time fugitive associates sentence her to an institution." to families headed by joblessof Cambodia's population, the magazine said in a report compiled in order to lighten her sentence, Johnson said. 
fathcr5, a 34 per cent increase to sources said. He said he and partner F. Lee $1.5 billion in general assistance . Miss Hearst's attorneys declined Bailey will stress Mis Hearst was 
rrom accounts of refugees. 
and a 23.7 per cent increase to

~tunice defends Joan 
yesterday to comment o~ her future originally a kidnap victim of the $13.9 billion in Medicaid health as a prosecution witness but said terrorist SLA in asking Carter for a care for the poor.
WASHINGTON--Eunice Kennedy Shriver has taken to the they will stress her poor emotional light sentence. 
The unemployment rate last year1ewspaper to criticize published accounts of the personal problems and physical health in seeking her "We feel that she has been averaged 8.5 pe1 cent compared"her sister-in-law, Joan Kennedy. Writing in yesterday's edition immediate release on probation. punished enough already." John-with 5.6 per cent in 1974.
the Washington Star, Mrs. Shriver said the wife of Sen. Edward The 22-vear-old heiress "is emo-son said. ..We're talking about a AFDC cash payments exceeded1vf. Kennedy had been at an institution run by Alcoholics 
tionally a~1d physically drained," life which for all intents and $9.2 billion last year, up 16.3 per·\nonymous, a worldwide organization that helps alcoholics and said attorney AI Johnson, indica!-purposes has been ruined. There's cent. Monthly payments averagedheir families deal with drinking problems. 
ing that h~r mental state has no purpose in incarcerating her $220.22 per family and $67.75 perdeteriorted since her conviction on further." recipient. up from $204.97 and March 20 of willingly helping the Miss Hearst has served seven 
$60.82 respectively in 1974.

-On Campus Toda~~--.. 
12:15 pm -mass, Iafortune ballroom 
2:30pm 
-meeting, college council, college of science, rm 150 cce 
5:15pm -evensong vespers, log chapel 
7&10 pm -film, "king lear," with paul scofield shakespearean film festival, engineering aud. 
7:30pm -discussion, dr. jan r. reineke, "billings method of birth control slide presentation, holy cross hall 
8 pm -speech, rocky bleier, senior class fellow, washing­ton hall 
12 am -album hour, wsnd am 640 
12:15 am -nocturne night flight, tonight's host: mark sullivan, wsnd 88.9 
Symbionese Liberation Army rob a months at the San Mateo County The state and local generalHibernia bank. Jail since her arrest Sept. 18. That assistance programs paid an aver­
time would be used as a credit to age of $141.96 per family and He declined to elaborate. reduce the length of time she must $98.14 per recipient last year.Other sources said Miss Hearst's serve if Carter orders her to prison 
depressions and anxieties have on Mondav. 

Movie applications 
been reported to U.S. District Meanwhile. sources said Miss Court Judge Oliver J. Carter. Hearst is resentful of terrorists she being accepted whose sentencing options range believes are responsible for her 
from a maximum 25 years in prison predicament. They said she has Applications are now being taken a minimum simple probation. given authorities some information for clubs wishing to sponsor a ·r may consider recommenda­and has offered to tell all she knows movie nest semester. Any legiti­

., from. Miss Hearst's probation about bombings. murders and mate clubs interested should stop ..1ticers and from the U.S. attorney members of the radical under­bv the Student Union offices and in passing sentence. ground network who protected her ti.ll out an application by Sunday. The sources said Carter also has during more than a year and a half April 23. Clubs who had a movie received confidential memos from as a fugitive. this semester and all residence at least one psychiatrist treating It was unlikely Mics Hearst's halls are ineligible to sponsor one Miss Hearst at the SanMateoCounty promise to act as a -'lsecution next semester. If necessary. a Jail and a report from Dr. Elizabeth witness would be me11.ioned in lottery will be held to determine Richards. a psychiatrist appointed open court today. but attorneys who receives them. If there are any to treat the defendant for psycholo­could tell the judge about the offer questions, contact Cathy Malkus at 
gical disturbances early in her privately, the sources said. 7757 or 1992. case. Johnson declined to comment on

TV classics to run (*The Observer1 t••••··~·~·~·..·~·~·~·..·~·~·.....i
whether those reports had been tonight and Thurs. Night Editor: Val Zurblis submitted or what might be con­tained in them.
Asst. Night Editor: John The old TV classics will run again 
Calcutt and Thursday evening in layout Staff: Kevin Walsh ERRATUM 






i SBAEBT'S i
ortune ballroom at 7:30 and Day Editor: Mary Pat Tarpey 
m. This week's features Copy Reader: Tom Byrne There was an error in Friday's _,, -: "Leave it to Beaver," "I Editorials: Martha Fanning issue concerning the recent elec­
: WORLD'S GREATEST PIZZA S 
__ove Lucy" and "Amos and Andy." Features: W. S. Nichols tions in the College Republican 
Admission is 75 cents. Free Sports: Chip Spina, Fred Club. Winners for secretary and t OPEN fl:OO A.M. -7DAYS AWEEK t 110pcorn and soda will be available. Herbst treasurer were misreported. 
ohe Observer is Published Monday · tnrough Friday and v.€ekly during the ~ surl'Yrel' session, except during ltle I exams and vacation periods. The1Observer is published by the students .of ltle Univ. of Notre Dame and St. 
/VIary's College. Subscriptions may oe
I
purdlased for $18 ($10 per serrester) 
Fro, The Observer, Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Sealnd Class postage paid, Notre Dame, IN 46556. 
Typists: Terri Harlan, M. 
In aduality. Frances Estrada was 
: BACK AGAIN! SHAKE.Y'S FAMOUS :
Keefe, Karen Chaimes, H. elected treasurer, and Laura Pres­
Van Dyke tine was elected secretary.

Night Controller: Howard 
• BUNCH-OF-LUNCH • 
Halle • 11 A.M. to 1:~0 P.M. 7 Days a Week • Special thanks go to J. Straub, 
ERRATUM t Pizza • Ch1cken • Spaghetti • Salad t
T. Heilmann, J. Flahavan, J. 
Commyn, V. McGowan, K. Women's Athletic Banquet will All You •••
Hinks, and M. Kane for be held Tuesday, April 20, NOT Care to $ ~'!') 1 6 Plu~ a~~cUn~~r making today's issue what it Tuesday. April 21. Eat! ...£ Tax 20c per year
i

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
t r;Bl4IIJI•Hii:lt:JiiiiiHI;sJJ:II:Iol'fln
f Call for Appointrrent t 259-6391 AN UNTUNED ENGINE WASTES GAS! 
t 
$19.95 
PLUS PARTS,
t 
MOST CARS 
t 
MILEX ELECTRONIC TUNE-UP SAVES GAS! 
INCLUDES:

f RUSS & Ll BERTY DRIVE 
'

f MISHAWAKA f (1 BLOCK SOUTH OF K-MART)  , 40 Step Engine Analysis , Electronic Carburetor Adjust , Calibrate Timing  
f MON-SAT 8-5 P.M.  , 30 Step Tune-up , Guarantee Parts & Labor 6,000  
miles-120 days 
• 291-7500 I BRAKE ' + 231 ia~·:~s~ RD. ' •·· + -~!.u!.._..J 


f _Specialists in Brakes, A-C cr~d Electrical Servic:e! 
~~~ ....~~~----~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
... I: 

~~~ ~~ 
WITH THIS COUFONf 


7 FT. COLOR TV
RECEIVE f 

t 
f gEER ON SUNDAYS
$5.00 t 
• SHAKEY'S fAMOUS
OFF ' • SUPER SUPPER 
Regular Ric:e • 5 to 7:30 Mon.-Tuc5. • \Ved. ' : Piua • thi::kcn • Spaghetti · Salad
MILEX PRECISION ' t t ~~r!~~ $216 Plus a~aeu~~~r 

t 
' • Eat! Tax 2.0c per year 
I 
ELECTRONIC t TUNE-UP • 323 E. IRELAND RD.
t 


' 
Monday, April12, 1976 the observer 3
Sen. Jackson criticizesr-------------------------, 

~~AN~!:s~:P~Th:!,t~,~.!~WE~~~ifi!,¥.'1 * Questionnaire I 
for the Democratic presidential to show strongly. I I 
nomination "will get down to two Jackson attempted to draw a people," according to Sen. Henry clear line between himself and I The following questionnaire deals with the condition of social life at Notre Dame, and should I 
M. Jackson. Carter on labor, saying. ..I'm not be filled out by either St. Mary's students or Notre Dame freshmen. Also, only one "It's Carter versus Jackson or proud of my labor record. I'm I questionnaire should be submitted per qualified student. I 
The completed questionnaire can be deposited in the ballot boxes located in the lobbies of 
Jackson versus Carter," the Wash-running against a right-to-work I either of the Notre Dame dining halls, or can be mailed to The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre ington senator told some 200 candidate in the name of Carter. Dame, Ind. (Through the campus mail service or the u.s. Postal service). Results of the I supporters Sunday night. Let's lay it on the line. That's an I questionnaire will be published inThe Observer after Easter Break. 
.Jackson criticiwd the former issue." 
1 
Georgia governor on a wide range In an allusion to criticism that I I 
of issues, resuming his attack on Carter is not tirm enough on the Have you notic;ed a decline in social life at Notre Dame?, Carter's " ethnic purity" refer-issues, Jackson said, "I don't have 1 ___ No, 1 have not noticed a decline in social life. I ence, implying that Carter wavers to go around apologizing and I Yes, I have noticed a decline in social life. I 
on the issues and drawing a changing my position every two More specifically... contrast between his own and minutes. I think you want a More Less Same
I I 
Cartl•r's support of the labor candidate who is steady, who can I 
There is more, less or the same amount of social activity (i.e., parties, informal 
movement. Carter took pains to stand up and debate the issues and social interaction, etc.> with in the dorms this year (question for on-campus students woo the Indiana Labor Coalition know that when he takes a stand, I only) 1 during a visit here last week. he'll he there to maintain that There is more, less or the same amount of social activity off campus than last year I 
· · · 1 f" " I (for off-campus students only).
"1 will be a candidate in this pos1t1on wit 1 some 1rmness. I
There is more, less or the same amount of social interaction with St. Mary's women 
state on the basis that I will not The Washington senator con--+---+--this year. have to go around llpologizing for tinued his longstanding, two-1 There is more, less, or the same amount of social interaction between dormitories I making statements that insult any pronged attack on the GOP, ex-I (for on-campus students only). group.. any nationality, or anyone's pressing dissatisfaction with both There is more, less, or the same amount of University sponsored social activities I national origin," .Jackson said in an economic and foreign policy stan-this year. I obvious reference to the "ethnic ccs adopted by the Ford Adminis­11lll'l·ty" ''lllllllll'Ilt. !ration. I If b 1 I
~ you e ieve that there is a decline in social life at If yu believe there is an increase in social life at lk continued reCl'!lt efforts to I Notre Dame over last year, answer the following Notre Dame over last year, answer the following
"I want a real detente. I want a
expand hi~ support into minority section by placing numbers before the given section by placing numbers before the given I · I II · I . world of peace. But I'm tired of explanations as to why (1, most important reason explanations as to why (1, more import ani reason
1
HrL·a~. s:~ymg ll' wout Win nc I-Nixon-Ford-Kissingcr detente of etc.) Leave blank those which do not apply to you etc.) Leave blank those which do apply to your I 
ana·~ May 4 pre~identi:~l primary 1 particular beliefs. beliefs.
give-away. When we give some-I I
by con~trul'ting :~ broad-based coa­lition. Sud1 a L'llalition, he said. led thing we want something in re-Because of less student interest to involve Because of more student interest to him to victories in New York and tum... he declared. He also said themselves socially with other students. involve themselves socially with other I
1

Ma~sachusetts. the "centerpiece of a .Jackson Because of the 21 year-old state drinking students. "We formed in Massachusetts Adminbtr:~tion will be a back-to-I law. Because of the adequate amount of I and in New York. in those big work Amcric:~," adding "the num-I Because students are studying more. neutral (soc1'al) space at Notre Dame · Iher one job is jobs." (F t d t 1 )
indu~tri;ll state~. and grand coali-or on-campus s u ens on Y (For on-campus students only) tion that J{oosevdt started with ''I'm going forward with a $20 I Because of less permissiveness on the Because of more oermissiveness on the I part of individual hall rectors in allowing part of individual hall rectors in allowing
labor. with business, with the billion publics works program to I hall parties, etc. In particular (which I 
· 1 'II 1 1 1 h h · 1 hall parties, etc. In particualr (which)
prok~sions. with tI1e vanous na-m1 c t 1e sc 100 s. t c osp1ta s, rectors) tionalities, ethnic and religious rebuild our railroads and take these I ------------I groups all coming together," he young people between 18 and 25, said. saying the same kind of especially for the minorities...and I Because of a lack of adequate neutral other I 
combination which sweep him to give them an opportunity to work." (social) space at Notre Dame. 
vil'torv here. he said. Other
1 

1
Thl:re arc 75 delegates up for .lat·kson outlined the creation of a I I grabs in the Indiana primary--a special job corps. similar to the one contest held on the same day as instituted bv President Franklin D. primaries in Georgia and Alabama, Roosevelt ir; the 1930s. 
I I
GENERAL BACKGROUND QUESTIONS 
I 1) Do you drink alcohol? Yes ---No I
Schlesinger reveals 
I 2) Do you have a girlfriend or boyfriend at Notre Dame, St. Mary's or in South I 
::nd? Yes no YesChina aid programs I Do you frequent the student bars off-campus No 1 WASIIINGTON (AP) -Former arc prepared to respond,·· he said. 1 4) Male Female 1 Schlesinger said he did not favor
Defense Sccrctarv .James R. Schlc­
a cutoff of aid to the Soviet Union, I 5) Are you a Sophomore Junior Senior 1.,inger says U.s: military aid to 
"but my uudcrlying premise is that
China ~hould not be rejected "out I 6) To what college do you belong I
in each of our dealings with theof hand" and that China is a 
Soviet Union. there should be a 
7)

"quasi-ally" of the Uuitcd States. I To what hall do you belong I 
quid pro quo."

Schll·~inger revealed Sunday I Off Campus I
Schlesinger said the record
tlwt while he was in office Ameri­a) Are you invovled with student government. SU, publications on campus, I
peacetime defense budget that
can ofllcials speculated about giv­I volunteer services and-or interhall, intermural or collegiate sports Yes No 
Congcss is likely to pass will enableing arms to China. But it was only 
I 9) Job on c< '1pus Yes ___ No __ Ithe United States "to arrest whatspeculation, he stressed. 
have been vcrv adverse trends" in Off-Campus Yes No
"There was speculation on this 
subject. but there was never a its balance of strength with Russia. I 10) What approximate percentage of Fri.-Sat. nights have you spent studying this 1 SchlesiRger declined to endorse I year? I
formal addressing of the issue of any presidential . candidate, al­
militarv assistance to China," he I percent more than last year I 
though he said his views have been
said o~ C'HS' "Face the Nation." percent less than last year----­
close "for many years" to those of
Asked if he favored such aid, he 
1 11) What percentage of weekday evenings have you spent socializing this year? IDemocratic Sen. Hcnrv Jackson.
replied. "I think we would have to 
His advice has been 'sought this I percent more than last year I
look at the specitic circumstances 
year by Jackson, Ronald Reagan. percent less than last year
and arrangements. I would not the Ford administration and a­
reject it out of hand." 
L 

tente 'and adopted the motto ambitions, Humphrey said, "I'm 
~U No charge for first 1000 miles ~ 
"pL·ace through strength." for Vance Hartke, period. He's Peace through strength is "very served his state well and deserves dose" to what used to he called the to be reelected." ~ Renter must pay for gas. Cars must be picked and
I GOLF.· C~ENTIR ~~ ~ ~ 
Cold War, Schlesinger said in However. Humphrey admitted 
~ ~ ~ 
nother candidate he declined to
It is "odd" for the United States 
name, Schlesinger said.

to provide technological and eco­nomic assistance to "our major potential foe," the Soviet Union, 
HHH endorses

while denying such aid to China, "a quasi-ally" that has helped restore "the political military bal­Senator Hartke ance around the world," he said. 
Schlesinger disclosed later Sun­INDAINAPOLIS (AP) -Sen. Hu­d:~y that he will visit China this bert H. Humphrey has endorsed summer. the renomination and reelection of 
Schlesinger. a critic of U.S. Indiana Sen. Vance Hartke. detente with J{ussia, was tired by Taking time out from a discus­President Ford last fall. Ford sion of the nation's economy and recently disavowed the term de­the status of his own presidential 
response to a question. he didn't know who Hartke was 
"DL'tcnte has undergone gyra­running against in the May 4 tions in the course of the last three Democratic primary. YL'ars. Its meaning has shrunk, "he Humphrey. who spoke at a press added. conference preceding a keynote 
"I would hope that there would address at the Indiana .Jefferson­be a tempering of those of the Jackson Day fund-raising dinner. passions of the Cold War period," later said Hartke is the kind of s:~id Schlesinger, but he added that leader who "stands up for those Americans must be prepared to who cannot stand up for them­"maintain the deterrent." selves." 
"We should not iudulge in Philip H. Hayes, a tirst-term unilateral disMmament or weapons wngrcssman, is challenging the lags on the hopes that the Soviets three-term senator in the primary. 


--------------------·---~~ 


--~~ r=S~IA~-RA~~=l 
FROM HERTZ U FOR YOUR 
WSND-AM NEEDS PROGRAMMERS If you have a good 


knowledgeof a variety Drive any car on our lot for only 
Call~~ ~~~c~;-6400 n $129/week piUS QOS 
returned to South Bend Hertz office, 710 N. Nlles Ave. ~b Models will be rented on a "first come, fU'St served"
I n "NIG~ LIGHTED" ill U basis. Call 232-5871 ~ 
9 HOlE • PAR 3 GOlP COURSI! 
I ~ ~ 
Driving Range 18 Hole Mlnlalu,....:! 


HERTZ RENT-A-CAR 
Open Down Til 10.00 PM I LOCATED us 33 AT IRONWOOD ~
I 

Call 1 288-0033 1 "The Superstar in Rent-A-Car" ~ If No Ana call 282-2366 710 N. Niles Ave., South Bend 
1715 LINCOLN WAY EAST so. II!NDJ X 
._..._..._.._,.....cw~ ~~»<:::::=>~x:::=::::>c,. "tc:==::>~x:::=::::>csc==::::tc \.f.~~.•, I~'/,.:. f~-,·, t·J.'-'".~-~ ..:·: .L:· ~~·.i~.·~·(. ::{··..~"··.;.r.!"'r.:l
,·..

.....,.,...·, 'fa'/ •.••. , • t ·~' ...... · ' ... ' \" ' . •. • . .;·).• •... I'' '• \.t'·• .._. ·~·J. '• 111. '• .1. '• rf.. ~ 'l j'! ,,, I J. ..lo (' 
the observer Monday, April12, 1976 

Gunmen take $50 million from Beirut city banks 
and Moslem militias took effect and ·BEIRUT. Lebanon (AP) -Gun­lasted about six weeks, the sourcesmen roaming the battle-ravaged 
said.

urban jungle of Beirut's financial district have pulled off three of the 
Safe deposit vaults were report­biggest bank robberies of all time, ed cleaned out at two more majorescaping with at least $50 million, banks -the Banco di Roma andaccording to officials. 
Bank Misr-Liban -amid renewed fighting last week.
In the first of the three robberies, bandits blasted open the vault of 
"The identity of the malefactorsthe British Bank of the Middle East is known to all," claimed Raymond and rifled the safe deposit boxes, Edde, a prominent Christian presi­where sources say jewelry dealers dential candidate and lawyer forand wealthy Lebanese stored large the Banco di Roma. He did not amounts of gold, jewels and cash. 
elaborate, but his comment was taken to support the near­
That robbery occurred in Jan­unanimous belief that the robbers uary, before a Syrian-mediated are radical Palestinian guerrillas. truce between warring Christian Lucien Dahdah, a former finance 
12,000 evacuated 
N.D. town threatened 
MINOT, N.D. (AP) -Hundreds of ice about IS feet thick clogged of volunteer workers joined Nation· the gates at Lake Darling Dam, al Guard troops yesterday as efforts reducing the water tlow. The corps continued to smoothly evacuate the sent two cranes to the dam to break tlood-threatened town of Minot. up the ice. and the tlow was 
About 12.000 persons must be brought back to normal. he said. evacuated bv Thursday because of Ofticials continued to monitor ice anticipated · record high waters on the lake. but Ruyak said from the Souris River. The swollen additional problems were being Souris. which winds through Mi­caused by debris tloating down the not. is expected to crest on April river and clogging at bridges. 
19. Furniture from many homes was 
··we will move out about SO being hauled to the Minot Civic families today," said James Wahl­Auditorium for storage since the berg. who heads the evacuation mass exodus in Minot began project. He said 30 families were Fr.idav. moved out on Saturday. If the Souris crests as predicted, 
About two-thirds of the residents it will be the fourth flood of the in the tlood plain will move without river at Minot in seven years. assistance, he said, while others receive help from volunteers and 
Sophomore class 
the National Guard. Heavy equipment was brought in 

balf.Jtting today
to haul dirt to earthen dikes in some parts of the city under Ballotting for sophomore class supervision of the U.S. Army Corps officers will be held for the third of Engineers. A spokesman said time tomorrow, following the in­
some of the huge dikes were 25 feet validation of Thursday's run-off high and an additional three or four election, due to the inadvertent feet would be built. closure of a voting box at one of the 
James Ruvak, chief of construc­residence halls. 
tion for the .corps. said the diking Tickets headed by Reed King effort was progressing well. On and Mike Clancy gained a position Saturdav. he said nearly 200 acres in the run-off by defeating three 
other tickets last Tuesday. 

An Tostal to have Senior Class president Augie Grace, who conducts the elections, cited the closeness of the race as
Recess 176 again 
the reason for having another 
Because of the overwhelming election, as the irregularity could sucess of Recess 101 last year, the have affected the outcome. Frivolous Friday An Tostal commit­Running with Clancy are John tee is planning to make it even Ryan as vice-president. Kristin bigger and better this year. Quann as secretary, and Rav Rai as 
To be held in the North Dining treasurer. On King's ticket are Hall, Recess 176 will be set up with Terry Gerth as vice-president, all your favorite kid games so you Mike Mullen as Secretary. and as can return to your childhood, even treaurer. Dane Taylor. though only for one night. New Voting will be held in the games added to the event this year residence halls from 11 :30 to 1 :30 will be musical chairs, marbles, and from 5:00 to 6:30. Off-Campus and a pillow fight. The old and ever students may vote in the Student popular games of 4-square, hop­Activities office from 1:00 to 5:00. 
scotch, hoola-hoop, jump rope, ,.._,,,,,,,,,,......,. 
finger painting, and tricycle races can also be played. 
~ Graduating Seniors ~ 
Farrell's, last year's winner of th~ James E. Brogan Award, will ~ Congratulations! After 4 ~ be here again to pass out free 
~ years of hard oork you ~ 
sundaes to all those who attend. We are asking for your help to ~ deserve a new car. No ~ make this event a success. Tricyc­
~ payrrents until August. ~ 
les, wagons and feather pillows are needed. If you can check at your 
~ i
home for these items during Easter ~ Call or See Art or Jad< at:·~ we would appreciate it. Also, don't 

~ Metro Unmln-mera.ny ~ 
forget to bring your roller skates. 

~ Mishawaka, Indiana ~ 
Any questions, call Keefe Mont­
~ 256-0211 ~ 
gomery at 8702 or Tina Sordyl at 
1330. .,,..,..,..,................................ 
·····························~~




: ar~r <llnlnnial . . :
i Ja,cakt ifnu.st ' ~ 
• FEATURING... • : LARGE,. OVEN-BAKED : : APPLE PANCAKES : : -A REAL TREAT-: :,WE NEVER COMPROMISE WITH QUALITY I : • U.S. 31 (Dixieway North) • 
:. (ACROSS FROM HOLIDAY INN) : 
························~~····~ 
minister and chairman of the Other bankers here agreed $50 robbery the largest in history. The holding company of Almashrek, million was a very conservative Guinness Book of World Records one of Beirut's largest banks, said estimate for the total stolen from all says the theft of the German 
$50 million was stolen from the three banks. National Bank's reserves, $10.3 British bank's vault, but another One bank source said he had million in gold and cash, at the end source said that an absolute mini­been told one box in the British of World War II is the greatest mum of $20 million in valuables bank contained $8 million in cash robbery on record. had been stolen. and jewels, and another box, Sources said robberies at the 
"Only the owners knew what mangled but overlooked by the Banco di Roma and Bank Misr­was in the safe deposit boxes. It robbers, still held $400,000 in Lebanon last week were more could be $50 million or it could be Lebanese pounds when found by professional than the heist at the 
$100 million or more," said Gabriel bank officials. British Bank, where the bandits Badaro, vice president of Beirut's The $20 million figure, if accur­used crowbars on safe deposit Chamber of Commerce. ate, would make the British Bank boxes after blowing the vault open. 



More die from Miami arson blaze 
MIAMI (AP) -Two more people have died from burns suffered in a fire that gutted an old. wood frame hotel in downtown Miami a week ago, bringing the toll to nine. 
Fire Chief Don Hickman said Saturday authorities are convinced the blaze at the A von dale Hotel was deliberately set. 
"We feel very firmly that it was arson." Hickman said. "We feel somebody went in and set it.·' 
One of the latest victims of the post-midnight blaze was Millie Sutton. an aged resident of the hotel found lying on her charred bed nearly four hours after the first firemen reached the scene. 
Burned over 100 per cent of her 
C9 C9 
Eyeglasses-Contact Lenses-Sunglasses Sport Goggles -Binoculars-Magnifiers 
HOUSE OF VISION 
Expert repair service -lenses duplicated The Sherland Building, 132 South Michigan Street-232-1468 
. ·_·.-. -_ ·..•·. ·•· .-J 
'. -­Monday, April12, 1976 the observer 
Harvard's Derrick Bell sees no end to racism 
by Patrick Cole Senior Staff Reporter 

Dr. Derrick A. Bell. Jr.. profes­
sor at the Harvard School of Law, 
expressed little optimism. in the 
complete elimination of the racial 
problem in America in the Center 
for Continuing Education Auditor­
ium last Friday afternoon. 
"On a proil·ity scale, the elimin­
ation of racism would rate only a 
~tcp or two higher than .the 
campaign to end the senseless 
slaughter of the oceans' great 
~h:llt·s." he asserted. 
His lecture was the last of a 
two-part series entitled. "Reform­
ing f{acial Strategies for Survival 
ami Accomodation." 
"Black children find themselves 
~till a~signcd to black schools little 
changed in quality over those their 
parcnh attended prior to the 
Brown v. Board of Education 
dv,·i~ion." he said to the group of 
K:i people. 
nodrinl' of .-ada! realism 
lh-11 indicated that the effective lunctinning of black~ and non· 11 hitl'~ in ,·h·il rig hi'. would be lurtlwrcd lw hi~· "Doctrine of hi~torkally-Fnlightened Racial lkali~nt." 
The doctrine ha~ five main points ha~cd on the notion that blacks ~impl_1· cannot afford the '· Ameri­can luxur~· of refusing to learn from hbtorv'': -We r~lllst recognize and accept the truth ;about the nature and extent of naci~m and probable permanence. -Strategies for progress should be pragmatic and llcxiblc. -The quest for racial equalit~· cannot be delegated. No one can free black people but themselves. -Legal rights arc not synonymous with substantial racial progress. -Racial equality cannot be pur­chased with integrity, dignity and sense of pride in race and self. 
Bell indicated that there was a fear of integration by blacks be­cause of the belief that white people represent a higher and better order of humanity than do blacks. He suggested also that America is a white country in which nourishing black institutions arc "unnatural and not to be encour­aged." 
"Consider. for example," the Harvard profesor pointed out, "the adverse public reaction to a basket­ball team that fields an all-black starting five. an Afro-American Studies Deparment with an all­black facui ty. or even a college dining hall table filled with black !>ludcnts." 
Suggestions l'or ci\'il rights strategy 
A reassl'ssmcnt of the usage of kgal rights and voting is necessar~· for those who plan and carr~· out rivil rights. Bl·ll sugge~ted. 
"Legal right~ ma.1· he pursued. hut cannot be relied on to either improve or protect the black com­munitv." he said. 
Cor~cerning voting. Bell conclu­ded that it "remains an elitist activitv. 
The. potential political effect of voting for blacks can be under­mined by low socio-economic status short-term disappointments, apa­thv or harrassmcnt. Bell stated. 
·"For these reasons, government voting officials do not consider a district 'safe' for the elction of a black representative unless the black voting majority is about 60 to 

Dr. Derrick A. Bell 
65 percent," Bell revealed. 
However, Bell noted that there are more blacks registered to vote than ever before and there arc more black elected officials includ­
ing  black  Congressmen  than  at  
anytime in the United States.  
:'There  arc  black  mayors  in  

several cities including Lo~ Ange­les. Detroit. Washington, D.C. and Gary Indiana, and the number of blacks in elected positions of 
importance is likely to increa!>e," Bell stated. 
"But those blacks elected will likd~· find that black political power will bc diluted and discouraged before it can play more than a subsidiary role in the decisions that most affect blacks." he added. 
Beyond ci\'il rights: social justice 
To increase effectiveness of black interests, Bell urged that the nation must move beyond civil rights to what the Rev. Jesse .Jackson called "social justice." 
"All of these reforms would benefit for. more whites than blacks," Bell emphasized. "But because a disproportionately large percentage of the victims of social of racism is not extinguished neglect are black. race has played a automatically when the schools arc corrosive and pervasive role in the racially mixed,'' Bell argued. rationalization of policies of in­"Someone needs to make this action.'' argument forceably to the courts in 
''According to Robert Heilbro­school desegregation cases." ner." Bell added, "he said that 
There is "ample evidence" that programs to improve slums arc 
white parents will send their child­
seen by many as 'programs to 
ren to a heavily-black shcool if thesubsidize Negroes. Fear and school is regarded as educationally
resentment of the Negro takes 
effective, Bell said.

precedence over the social problem "A difficult task? Obviously,"­
itself. The result is the entire 
he stated. "But how much more
society suffers from the failure to spiritually uplifting is this goal forcorrect social evils." 
black parents seeking an integrated 
In the event of a cns1s, Bell school than loading their children predicted that poor whites will not on buses headed for hostile sub­take the problem to city hall. but urbs where black students arc they will head for the nearest black treated like unwelcome visitors." community seeking revenge if the 
Bell contended that opportunit~
cunent economic situation wor­sens. 
with dignity for blacks and not forced association with white~ 
The lecture concluded with Bell should be the goal. criticizing the school desegregation Bell's Fridav lecture l'Oncluded efforts. He referred to former the Fifth Ar~nual Notrl' Dame Chief Justice Earl Warren's feel­Center Civil Rights Lcctlii'L' Sl•rie!>. ings that inferiority was generated The program wa!>. ~ponsorcd by the 
by enforced racial separation. Notre Dame Law Sdwol in l'lHlpera­"But we know now that racial tion with thv Notre Dame (\·nter subordination which is the essence for Civ,l Rights. 



CAP makes changes 
(continued from page 1) closer relationship between stud­
Kim Kittrell. senior CAP student ents and advisors." Ching stated. favors the changes in the program. "The pr'ogramis really beneficial to She cited the "shift back to the those students who want to pursue strong advisory role" as "good and an area of study not offered in the very much needed." Sophomore structured university programs," Barb Frey concurred with this she continued. opinion, commenting that her ad­·'I think there should be greater visor "really helped her" in select­contact between the advisor and ing classes. the student." said Junior Debby 
Cori Ching. sophomore CAP Grady. "The main problem with student. agreed that changes in the CAP now," Grady added, "is the program were needed. "I would limited selection of courses avail­like to see the development of a able to the students." 

--dip and save--================================================::::;'1  
HOLY WEEK SERVICES  
Wednesday of Holy Week  
6:00-7:15 p.m.  
8:00-10:00 p.m.  Special Holy Week Confessions  Sacred Heart Church  
10:30 p.m.  Fenitential ServiCE  Cavanaugh Chapel  
Homilist: Rev. Matthew M. MiCEli, C.S.C. (Follovved by Mass)  
Holy Thursday  
12:15 p.m.  Mass Celebrant: Rev. Robert Griffin, C.S.C.  LaFortune Ballroom  
5:00p.m.  Mass Celebrant: Rev. William M. Le~rs, C. S.C. Homilist: Rev. Jerorre J. Wilson, C.S.C.  Sacred Heart Church  
6:00 p.m.-6 :00 a.m.  Traditionally a watch is kept at The Altar of repose after the evening Mass of the Lord's Supper. The church will be kept open all night.  Sacred Heart Church  
8:00 p.m.  Mass Celebrant: Rev. Robert Griffin, C.S.C.  Keenan-Stanford Chapel  
11 :00 p.m.  Mass Celebrant: Rev. Daniel Jenky, C.S.C.  Dillon Chapel  
Good Friday  
3:00p.m.  Celebration of the Lord's Passion Celebrant: Rev. Jarres T. Burtchaell, C. S.C.  Sacred Heart Church  
3:15p.m.  Good Friday Servia:  Keenan-Stanford Chapel  
3:15p.m.  Good Friday ServiCE Celebrant: Rev. William Toohey, C. S.C.  Walsh Chapel  
11 :00 p.m.  Stations of the Cross  Cavanaugh Chapel  
Holy Saturday  
11 :00 p.m.  Easter Vigil Celebrant: Rev. Eugene F. Gorski, C.S.C.  Saaed Heart Church  
11 :00 p.m.  Easter Vigil Celebrant: Rev. Matthew M. Miceli, C.S.C.  Cavanaugh Chapel  
11 :00 p.m.  Easter Vigil Celebrant: Rev. Jarres T. Burtchaell, C.S.C.  Di lion Chapel  
Easter Sunday  
9:30a.m.  Mass Celebrant: Rev. Joseph Carey, C.S.C.  Saaed Heart Church  
10:45 a.m.  Mass Celebrant: Rev. John C. Gerber, C.S.C.  Saaed Heart Church  
11 :00 a.m.  Mass Celebrant: Rev. Oliver William;, C.S.C.  Dillon Chapel  
11 :00 a.m.  Mass Celebrant: Rev. Matthew M. Miceli, C.S.C.  Cavanaugh Chapel  
11 :00 a.m.  Children's Mass Celebrant: Rev. Robert Griffin, C.S.C.  Keenan-Stanford Chapel  
12:15 p.m.  Mass Celebrant: Rev. William Toohey, C.S.C.  Saaed Heart Church  
4:30p.m.  Easter Day Vespers Celebrante: Rev. Jarres T. Burtchaell, C  Sacred Heart Churdl  


Founded November 3. 1966 

The Observer is published by students of the University of Notre Dame and EDITORIAL BOARD St Mary's College It does not necessarily reflect the pol1c1es of either 
Ed1tor-1n-Chief1nst1tu!lon Thf' news is reported as accurately and obJf'Ctlvely as possible. bhon~as 0~ Nf'il Manag1ng Ed1torf d1tonals represent the opiniOn or a majonty ot the f:ditonal Board. ,m anl e1 Executive EditorCommf'ntanes are the v1ews of individual editors. Op1n1ons, cartoons and Cregg Bang> regular columns express the v1ews of their authors. Column space is Val Zurbl1s 
Executive Editor Editorial Ed1tora\adable to all members of the community, and letters are encouraged to Pat Hanlf1n Executive News Ed1torpromote the free expression of varying opinions on campus. Bob MadPr 
Maureen F1ynn Campus Editor Mart1 Hogan St Mary's Editor Bus~ness 283-7471 Ed•tonals 28]-171 'i Don Reimer 
Copy Editor
!'."'" !H Hlhb1 
T1n1 O'Reiley Features Editor Fred Herbst Sports Editor Tom Modglin AdvertiSing Manager Tom WhPian Mary Egan Contnbuting Ed1tor 
Monday, April12, 1976 



Father Knows Best? 
for their own good. 'i'his paternalisticFr. Burtchaell's decision to require that attitude is often clothed in the archaicall departmental exams be held at 8:00 phrase "in loco parentis", and can be most a.m. on Tuesdays and Thursdays (rather easily seen in the imposition of such sillythan in the evenings) is another example of and unpopular rules as parietals.
the needless difficulties which the Admin­The exam decision, true to this pattern,istration's "Father knows best" attitude was made without the representation orproduces. 
approval of the students and faculty--i.e. ofThe decision would be absurd no matter the people most invovled. An opinionwho made it or how it was made. Eight in survey &~lowed the students opposed thethe morning is a ludicrous hour to do idea but it was disregarded in the finalanything, let along take a test which decision. In any case, there is a majordetermines a large part of your course difference between asking someone's aidgrade. Most students (even most fresh­in rationally considering a problem andmen) are on a late-to-bed, late-to-rise asking him to check off one or twoschedule; they would hardly be at their pre-arranged alternatives.
intellectual peak at such an early hour. 
"Father knows best" decision-making is The new plan will not give students likely to result in poorer decisions, since more time for social and cultural life since only a few people can effectively contribute they will have to spend Monday and ideas and information. Even if theWednesday nights cramming for exams. 
decision itself is good, it implicityly denies In fact, many will be tempted to pull the ''Christian community'' which isall-nighters. The fact that less time is supposedly the basis of life at Notre Dame. 
available for the tests may mean more There is nothing either Christain or tests and more tension among test-takers. 
communal in the concept that students and 
Burtchaell's plan must be dropped, but faculty are ignorant children. Students 
even if this were done the underlying and faculty know they are not children and 
problem would remain. There seems to be know that they do have a right to strong 
a wide-spread feeling on the part of voices in decison-making. Treating them 
administrators that they know what is best as infants only prompts feelings of anger, 
for the students and faculty, and that frustration and suspicion--feelings inimical 
therefore there is no need to worry about to "Christain community." 
what students and faculty think. In twenty Fr. Burtchaell has called himself an 
years the children will understand it was expert at making difficult decisions. That 
Of course no one likes taking depart­is not true in this case. Here he has shown 
mentals. But if you have to take them, the himself an expert at making decisions 
evening is a much better time. You are difficult. Such difficulties are needless, 
fully awake. You have had some sleep the but they will persist until the present 
night before and still have had time for "Father knows best" attitude is replaced 
final studying in the afternoon. You have with a more rational, more democratic, 
more time for the test and hence less more Christian way of running Notre 
tension. 
Dame. 


(P.O. Box Q) 
international scene and gave rise to broom closet instead ot an advi­a powerful symbol of furtive entry sor's office and he found out aHildebrand's into the inaccessible gates in a janiotr nipping a bottle. who lest he nocturnal ploy niftier than the should be found out, hastily admit­quarterback sneak, called the Tro­ted that he was a faculty advisor) jan Horse. Bloop could have found out, hastily
B'oop 

Notre Dame, eat you heart out! If about Franklin Roosevelt and his Bloop had not been sheltered by an clandestine trysts in Lover's Lane Dear Editor: unworthy curriculum advisor he in the back seat of an automobile-­
Considering Hildebrand's bold would have touched onto the thus identifying with succeedinga5>sertion in your thought-provok­theology department and could generations of 16 year-olds with ing article, I want to say that it have been edified by a powerful wheels. must have taken a great deal of church authority who forthrightly 
If all this ain't enough, he could courage and heartfelt (visceral? took a stand like his. Pope Alex­have found a friend who could tell 
genital?) sincerity for him to take ander VI, who lest the truth of his him that all work no
and playhis position. It should be helpful in living lust for the opposite sex 

makes Jack a dull boy and engagedbringing others to a self-under­should be lost from the eyes of a in a little extra-curricular activity
standing. However, shame on sinful multitude, appointed the by finding his way to Nicky's
Notre Dame for letting him go illegitimate fruition of his hetero­Corby's, or Fat Wally's any
on 

through a lot of mental anguish in sexual drive, Cesare Borgia, a night and discover that it's not only vain. If he had been introduced to Cardinal, thus further countenanc­socially acceptable, it increases history, theology, indeed to the ing his act and Bloop's act. 
exponentially with the number of student bodv (I sort of think he But we need not go back so far in pitchers consumed. 
lives in the· 1:);:11-tower of Sacred history; more contemporary and for Now, one good thing for Hilde­Heart) he woufd have found similar Bloop's appraisal is the valiantly 
brand to keep in mind is not to stands taken by innumerable and courageous heterosexual assertion imitate someone else's style when respectable predecessors--Abra­that touched the hearts of the world he wants to do his thing.
ham, Muses, King David. and shook the Church of England in Remember, Bloop. when you imi­If Hildebrand had not been shield­Edward VIII who gave up his kingly tate somebody's syle, you end uped from the Arts & Letters, he crown in order to become the other cramping you own and your reallycould have read with relish about half of a heterosexual duke and ain't doing you own thing. Take-­others that confounded the system duchess team. The epitome of the heart, Hildebrand, you have no­by asserting his position. Paris, American ideal, the presidency, thing to lose but your innocence. 
erstwhile lover of the opposite sex has been opened to the scandal of Best of luck in journalism. 
in the person of Helen of Troy, attraction to the opposite sex. asserted himself so provocatively, In history (really, I think that Name withheld by requesthis stand launched a thousand someone pulled an April Fool joke ships. His affair became an on Hildebrand and sent him to a
. . 

opinion!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~~!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~~~!!!!!!!!!!! 


Beyond the Law 
According to a front page article in The Observer of April 8, Dean of Students James Roemer suspended three students suspected by the South Bend Police of possessing and delivering a controlled substance. According to The Observer the decision to suspend these students was made on the basis of two sections of the "University Rules and Regulations." 
1. 
"Rules" (7) Providing for others, by sale or otherwise, marijuana or any dangerous drug, is considered a serious violation. 

2. 
"Disciplinary Procedures (Section 3 Paragraph d) In emergencies where the Dean of Students judges there to be imminent danger of serious harm to persons or property, or serious obstruction of University life, he may summarily suspend and even expel students. 


The Dean, by citing these two provisions of the "Rules and Regulations" as his rationale and justification for these suspensions, has established the standard by which we can judge his action. If it can be shown that the rule and procedure upon which he relied in making his decision do not, in fact, apply in this case, then it follows both that he should be willing to reverse his decision and that an injustice has been done. 
If the students are found innocent of the violation of the criminal code then they must also be innocent of a violation of Rule 7. Or does the Dean think it is within the jurisdiction of the University to oveeride a court decision? The Dean must await the determination of tr:! courts before he can consider taking any action. They have been disciplined and punished even though they have not been convicted of any crime whatsoever. 
However, there really is a prior question. The argument above assumes that the innocence or guilt of these students is in fact relevant to the question of their suspension. A reading of the 
f{u]es and Regulations" clearly and obviously shows that it is 1 i. Even if it should be proven, or even if these students should aumit that they have violated a controlled substances law (and therefore have violated a University rule), it does not follow that suspension is warranted or allowable under the "Disciplinary Procedures" of the "Rules and Regulations." The commission of a "serious violation" under Rule 7 is simply not grounds for suspension under Section 3 Paragraph d of the "Disciplinary Procedures" which the Dean cited as his rationale and justification. . There a;e quite definite limits to what will count as an interpretation of "3d." At a certain point an "interpretation" of certain kinds must be judged a "revision." It is clearly true in this particular case that any "interpretation" which would make it applicable to this case must, in fact, be a revision. "3d" requires that there be a state of emergencvy in order for suspension to take place. There is not now, nor was there, a state of emergency. On this ground alone, "3d" is not applicable to this case. Further, Rule 7 ("serious violation") applies only to violations in the past, while "3d" refers to the imminent danger of harm to persons and property in the future. 
Finally, there is neither imminent danger of serious obstruction of university life nor was there such obstruction in the past. There are many and frequent events and activities on the campus and in the halls which represent more of an obstruction of university life than the alleged off-campus activities of these students. 
If those in authonty are to be trusted, if they are to have authority in both name and fact, they must be willing to be responsible for what they say. They must be willing to engage in reasoned discussion of decisions made or pending and the grounds for these decisions must be both reasonable and public. The Dean of Studer.ts stated that the above rule and procedure were the grounds for his decision and therefore of the justice of his action. We have shown that the rule and procedure do not apply in this case and that therefore an injustice has been done. 
Legitimate authority depends upon reason and trust -not on power alone. If the Dean of Students is to be trusted and if his authority is to be legitimate he cannot now change the reasons and grounds for his decision. To do that would transform the Notre Dame community from a community of trust and reason into a 
society founded on power arbitrarily exercised. 
DOONESBURY Trudeau 
UffiU, I THINK I'VG HAO HONG~ m.t.. YOU /1801/TAU-711£ INTCRNATIONAL­IA/Hirr-/..GT's KNOCK OFF R!3lA!lONS I CAN TAKG Fa< FOR 7HcAFTl:RJ.K){)N, JINlJ ON& IAJJRKtN61?AY-ESP&C!AUY TAKE: A 8{JT7"t£ OFMAO WITH A!Kml#?. BANQU&TCIJMIN6 7111 (}(JT 7lJ 7HG SIIMMGR 
UP TONIGHT.. PAtAC/3!
\ 
"'­



Dotted throughout the backwoods of the "New South" arc hundreds and even thousands of nightspots that are aptly named "beer-and-boogie bars." These arc the working class bars in which the long-haired laborers and rednecks drink their beer and chase their women. The discos are looked upon as somehow foreign 
(i.e. Yankee) and the Bump is the only disco dance that is even attempted. When the redneck wants to step out on the town, he (!.he) goes down to the local "beer-and­boogie" bar and starts drinking. When he (she) has consumed a goodly amount, they will stumble out to the dance floor and start to dance. And the music that gets them dancing is not the sophisticated music of the disco but the raunchy and raw sound of rock and roll. Snarling and gritty vocals and loud guitars arc the trademark of such hands and the king of this realm of Southern music is Lynryd Skynryd. 
The hand comes out of Doraville, Georgia. which is about as backwoods as it can get. They have spent their good share of time in those "beer-and-boogie" bars and have lived a near-legendary life of wildness on the rock circuit. Every picture of the band members has either a beer can ot a guitar in their hands, and that is meaningful for those two items fully describe their music and their new album; Gimme Back My Bullets. 
The first side of the album be_gins with the title song".Gimme Back My Bullets, "a typical gut-rattling rocker of the ZZTop variety. The next cut is the countryish "Every Mother's Son" which, although the piano player(Billy Powell) and vocalist Ronnie VanZant turn in admirable perfor­mances, is not quite enough to make the song a winner. Things arc not helped by the fact that the song sounds like a rip-off of Pure Prarie League. However, as the Peter Principle said. things can and will get worse. The next,'Trust"ts an excellent example of a technically excellent song that has absolutely no taste. The guitarists, Gary Rossington and Allen Collins, play with speed and accuracy but with no polish or feeling for the music. They just play faster and faster and louder and louder. At the bottom of the side is also the lowest 
quality song. Their version of J .J. Calc's 
song, "I Got the Same Old Blues", is memorable only in the miserable attempt at slide guitar that haunts the whole song. Whoever played that track should go back to his pick-up and listen to his 8-track of Duane Allman again. 
By this time, the record was beginning to give me a head-ache, just like when I drink too much beer. Things got a little better with the opening of the second side, "Double Trouble". It's a typical booze, blood, and bars song that Lynryd Skynryd actually does rather well. The soul back-up section is a nice balancing touch to the song. Things started deteriorating again with "Roll, Gypsy, Roll", another non­descript song about life on the road. The next song, "Searching", is probably Lynryd Skynryd at their best. Their rhythmn section of Leon Wilkerson and Robert Burns put down a foot-stomping bottom line and the guitarists lead the song around rather well. However, things doesn't sound filled-in and that is where they miss Ed King. their former third lead guitarist. His lead playing provided a good counterpoint to the dual leads of Rossing­lon and Collins and provided a distinct "sound" for the band. Without King, they 

sound just like Bad Company or Arrow­smith. The album is closed-out with "All I Can Do Is Write About It", a country rocker that pulls at the heartstrings of any Southerner who has the misfortune of being stuck north of the Mason-Dixon line. 
To be quite honest, the first few times I listened to this album, I was not impressed or even happy with it. However, that was when I had just gotten out of classes and rock was not the thing to settle down to. Later in the evening, after hitting some of the friendly neighborhood bars. I listened to it again, liked it, and was even moved by it! That is an excellent example of how Lynryd Skynryd is much like the beer they drink. In small amounts, they only slightly satisfy; in large quantities they produce euphoria and headaches. Like beer, they are straight-forward and un-diluted but they will get flat if left out too long. They are excellent party music but horrible when listened to alone and shouldn't be mixed with other kinds of music. Simply speaking. Lynryd Skynryd is the cheap beer of rock music and Glmme Back My Bullets is their beer spcci?l. 
-
record courtesy of Mac's Record Rack 

Opinion 


·,/ ''Permissiveness'' 
I have nevn felt very comfortable with 
the word "permissiveness." It always 
remind~ me of Spiro Agnew, and some of 
tho~c god-awful speeches he used to give. 
And vet I l'an't totally shake other 
recollection~. too. · 
I recall. for example. many young people 
ll'IIL'ountct'l'd as a prison chaplain several 
YL'ar~ ago. who were victims of a certain 
kind of permissiveness. They were the 
ylntng~tcr" who were neglected and aban­
doned. ncvn supervised. disciplined. or 
conft·onted with their f<tilurcs; and I 
di~cO\'l'tTd again and again how such 
betrayal mntributcd to scriously-dclin­
qut·nt behavior. 
I wa ... reminded of all thb hv a recent 
new~ item. recounting the IlL'\~· program 
l''-fHlUSL'd b~· the Rev ..Je~~L' .I ackson. "This 
might break a favoratc habit of your~." he 
told a high sdtool audience recently. "hut 
~illl'l' the place ha.~ a roof on it. and since 
it'~ \\arm in here -why don't you young 
llll'll ju~.~1 take your hats off." 
Tlwre wen: some sign~ of giggling, some applau~L' (particularly from the teachers and parcnh), and some embarrassment. But cvcrv hat came ofT. and the director of Operatio'n PUSII, and former associate of Martin l.uthcr King . .Jr.. was in control. Thi~ control was essential to his other mission: getting young blacks to develop the sclf-rcspcl'l and discipline he believes necessary for academic success. 
.I ackson is ~howing himself as a man with great faith in the "old values"; and he also reveals he understands the power of symbols, of which doffing hats is one. Rev. Jackson has been devoting almost all his time speaking to students not about revolution but about their responsibility as civilized human beings. 
Jackson has been promoting lO points that he heliL·ves will lead to the restoration of discipline and academic excellence in the sdwols. Their essence is self-respect and sl'lf-control. This civil rights radical is old-fa~hioncd enough to think that one ~ourcc of dbciplinc problem is that the sdwols arc too informal. He wants tougher high school policies against students who wear hats, carry radios and play cards and dice; a more rigid dress code; a more formal atmosphere in schools. including periodic addresses by principals; more parental participation in the educaitonal process. 
lie would have the city ofticials proclatm weekdays between 7 p.m. and 9 p.m. as a "citywide study hour" as a means of hl'lping parents to tear their children away from the TV sets. "And somewhere around 10:.10 ought to be bedtime," Jackson adds. "If Johnny can't learn because he is hungry. that's the fault of poverty. But if Johnny can't pay attention because he's sleepy. that's the fault of parents." 
kcv. Jackson's comments about urban cduL'ation needing "more parents willing to give their children care, motivation and 
Fr. \\ illiam Toohey 
chastisement-the will to learn," prompted me to re-read sections of Midge Deeter's provocative hook, Liberal Parents, Radical Children. 
Deeter begins with an open letter to the youth of America, in which she makes a number of challenging observations. She dairns, for example, that young adults today arc to a serious degree "incapable of facing. tolerating, or withstanding difti­cult:v of any kind." She also states that it is her belief that young persons today arc more than usually self-regarding. She explains the classification as follows: "No one who has dealt with you. neither parent, nor teacher, nor pllfitical leader. nor even one of the countless panderer~ to or proliteers from your cyclonically shifting appetites. can have failed to notice the sercnitv -the sublime. unconscious. un­blinking as~urancc -with which you accept their attentions to vou. A thinker, or a bonk, with ideas to i.mpart that you do not already understand and agree with is immediately dubbed 'boring' or 'irrele­vant' ami must immediately thereby forfeit all claims upon you. For some reason, it seems never to occur to vou that a failure to comprehend. to appre-ciate, to grasp a subtlety not already present in your own considerations might be a failure of your own. 
Mrs. Deeter's intentions arc not to lay a guilt-trip upon students, nor just to describe them alone. She very honestly speaks about herself and all the members of her generation who, as parents. contri­buted so profoundly to the formation of the very children about whom she speaks. 
We parents, Deeter writes, "imagined, and taught you to believe. that pain and heartache and fear were to be banished from your lives. Wc refused one of the central obligations of parenthood: to make ourselves the final authority on good and had, right and wrong. and to take the consequences of what might turn out to be a lifelong battle. It might sound a paradoxical thing to say -for surely never has a generation of children occupied more sheer hours of parental time -but the truth is that we neglected you. We allowed you a charade of trivial freedoms in order to avoid making those impositions on you that arc in the end both the training ground and proving ground for true independence. We pronounced you strong when you were still weak in order to avoid the struggles with you that would have fed your true strength. We proclaimed you sound when you were foolish in order to avoid taking part in the long. slow, slogging effort that is the only route to genuine maturity of mind and feeling. Thus, it was no small anomaly of your growing up that while you were the most indulged generation. you were also in many ways the most abandoned to your own meager devices by those into whose safekeeping you had been given." 
Films 

One Good-One Bad 
The Bad News Bears which is 
now playing at the River Park, is a 
pleasant comedy starring Walter Matthau 
and Tatum O'Neal. about a hapless little 
league baseball team and its equally 
incompetent manager, and it should be the 
hit of the summer. It's unfortunate that 
the same cannot be said for Alfred 
Hitchcock's Family Plot at the Forum II. It 
is a dull and slow moving film that offers 
little of interest except for the cinematic 
scholar who could use it as a basis for 
comparison in studying the deterioration of 
a great directoral talent. 

Perhaps the major reason that the Bad News Bears is such an engaging and enjoyable film is that it is unpretentious and entertaining. Unlike the Hitchcock film. the characters though a little over­drawn, hold our interest and manage to invoke our sympathies for their plight. The tilm like most pictures dealing with sport relics heavily on the hackneyed theme of the underdog never giving up hope and through hard work and determination ultimatey succeeding against all odds. Still this kind of thing does happen in real life (remember the '69 Mets?), and the film succeeds in spite of this thematic obstacle through its somewhat downbeat ending and the outrageous peformances of the kids · 
'fhe children's performances are natural· ly the most entertaining in the film. being the most easily exploitable. Their outra­geousness, and lack of refinement and discipline provide the most comical mo­ments in the film: there is the 200 pound catcher who eats candy bars without taking off the wrapper, the incorrigible little boy who takes on the entire 7th Grade when he's insulted and the black kid whose idols are Hank Aaron and Mohammed. Yet the funniest thing of all is the whole team's unabated rage at themselves and each other for not even being able to make the most elementary plays in the field. 
Attempting to mold this outfit of losers into a contending team is Morris Butter­maker played by Walter Matthau. Buttermaker is a former AAA pitcher who now works as a pool maintenance man. As the apathetic coach, Matthau is wonderful playing his favorite part of the middle aged man who uses his gruff exterior to protect his innate sensitivity from any damage. He unselfishly underplays the role, leaving center stage to the kids and their woeful exploits on and off the field. 
Buttermaker's seeming disinterest in his team turns into concern when he realizes that as an "expnsion team" he and his boys aren't wanted, and when the Bears are deliberately humiliated in their open­ing game, he decideds to help them. Buttermaker convinces Amanda (Tatum O'Neal) Whurlizer the daughter of a girl he almost married and who has a wicked curve and spitter to pitch for him and then gets 

Dominick Salemi 

an 11-year old JD who smokes cigarettes 
and rides a Harely-Davidson, to play 
center when he becomes attracted to 
Amanda. Their relationship as well as her 
raport with Matthau take the film beyond 
the level of the typical sport tilm. · · 

Family Plot is not an entertaining film, 
and unbelievably. is an even more boring 
picture than his last effort, the very 
overrated Frenzy. It is a typical Hitchcock­
ian melodram with the usual pair of 
innocents stumbling into a dangerous 
situation that they only gradually come to 
realize. Yet unlike Jimmy Stewart in 
Vertigo or Cary Grant in North by 
Northwest the characters hold no charm of 
interest for us. 

Barbara Harris as Madame Hlanche a 
fraudulent clairvoyant and Bruce Dern as 
her taxi-cab driving boyfriend play the 
bumbling couple who arc offered a reward 
of $10,000 to find the missing heir of one of 
Blanche's customers. While doing their 
detective work, they stumble into an 
unbelievable situation that involves politi­
cal kidnapping. paricide and extortion. All 
this of course is the sinister work of the 
missing heir who is hiding his sinister past 
behind the seemingly innocent guise of a 
Park Avenue jeweler. When our heroes 
accidentally bungle onto his trail, the 
jeweler (William Ucvane) and his girl­
friend, played with startlingly lifelike 
woodenness by Karen Black, attempt to 
get rid of them. 

Despite all the complications the aud­ience never really cares. The kid I was sitting next to got up five times to go to the bathroom and I found it hard to hear the dialogue most of the time because of all the rustling and muttering in the audience. To say the crowd's reaction was apathetic would be an understatement, it felt more like blatant hostility to me. This inevitable feeling of resentment was a result of Hitchcock revealing the situation early and then watching as Dern and Harris slowly discover what we've known all along. If the characters had been more well develop­ed the inevitable confrontation between the two parties wouldn't have been so anticli­matic. In sacrificing character for dramatic complexity Hitchcock cannot hope to hold our interest by keeping the situation a mystery only to the characters involved. The complications that arise on both sides as a result of Harris' and Dern's search end in vacuous situations and an all too predictable conclusion. 
The best that can be said for Farnlly Plot. finally is that it will only be playing for another two weeks and that the truly frightening and thought provoking Taxi Driver is following it. It is sad to say that Hitchcock's cute detective dramas are no longer exciting or even interesting. The last great film he made was Psycho and that was in 1960 so it would be incongrous to say that he's slipping; at 74 he seems to be out of it completely. 
-----~~­


Monday, April12, 1976
the observer
8 



STEREOLPS SERIES 6.98 ONLY••• 
~II 

I 




EAGLES 
Their Greatest Hits 1971-1975 
PLUS MANY MORE TO CHOOSE FROM! 
. -.., ·• "'v •••• # '• • '• ,. •• • • ­






$3.99 $5.99 
PICTURED ITEMS ON SALE. 

CHICAGO'S"' GREATEST HITS 
including: Just You 'N' Me/Colour My World Saturday In The Park/25 Or 6 To 4 (I've Been) Searchin'So Long Wishing You Were Here 
COLUMBIA 

PRICES GOOD THRU 4/15/76 
NOTRE DAME 

W'ANTEDT 

THE OUTLAWS 

PLUS MANY MORE TO CHOOSE FROM! 
Monday, April12, 1976 the observer 
9 

I 

Richard T. Sullivan 
John T. Frederick 
( 



1\ 

\ 
~ 
I 
I 
/ 
) 


In hi' address. Pope Paul said .lc,U\ "places himself in the main­
~~rr::'; i::la~::::::u:a::lar:.c '~:Literary prizes to honor professors 
stream of civilization and divides it walked the 20 vards from the Two new undergraduate literary years at Notre Uame and also Sullivan is well known as a writerinto two di!Tncnt and often oppos­thrcshhold to a j1oint inside the prizes will honor former Notre served administratively, as chair­in the South Bend t•ommunity anding current~. basilica where he was taken in his Dame English Professor John T. man of the English Department in the nation. He is one ofportabll' thorne to the altar. 
Frederick and Professor Emeritus and as a member of the Library America's major Catholic authors"On one side. the current of Richard T. Sullivan. Council. At his retirement in 1962. of the mid-centurv. Six novels. ;tAfter the mass the Pope went totho~c who arc poor of spirit. of The John T. Frederick Prize will Notre Dame conferred upon him an collection of shori stories. and atiJO.\c who arc seeking the kingdom the window of his studio overlook­be awarded annually for excellence honorary doctor of letters. book on Notre Dame arc among hising St. Peter's Square and againof God. of tho~c who believe in in literary criticism, and the Rich­Frederick was also an important most famous works. He has alsoaddressed and blessed the crowd.
eternal lik; on the othL·r. the ard T. Sullivan Award for tiction man of letters in the midwest. He written radio plays and tilm scripts.
rurrcnt of tho~c who arc selfish and 
writing. Cash awards will be grant­founded The Midland, a prestig­and he has for years been a regular\\ lw seck an carthl_v kingdom. With vesterdav's ecrcmonv the ­
ed in each case, and the Frederick ious "little magazine" which is still book reviewer for The Chicago
tlwsc who~e trust is in time along.. Pope siartcd a· busy wc~k of 
prize will include an inscribed published, and was moderator of Tribune and The New York Times.
.that make force and aggressive activities. On Holv Thursdav he plaque. the radio program Of Men and and opprc~sivl' revolution the blind will celebrate the L;lst Supper Mass The Frederick Prize has been Books. He helped midwestern writ­The Sullivan Prit.e has been rca'>on for thL' dc~tinics of people... at the St. .lohn Lateran Basilica 
established by an anonymous don­ers find publishers for their works, established by the faculty of the
and will wash the feet of 12 
or to commemorate one of Notre and he introduced at Notre Dame Department of English at Notre 
pcrsons. a ceremony recalling Je­Dame's most distinguished teach­some of the nation's first Univer­Dame, where the author has taught
Oreffice to speak 
sus' washing the feet of the ers and men of letters. A poet, sity courses in contemporary litera­tiction writing. playwriting. dram­Apostles. Usually the persons novelist, short story writer, and ture. After retirement from Notre atic literature, and world literature.
chosen arc either poor. or young

on free enterprise 
scholar of American literature, Dame, he taught at the University He will retire in May after 40 yearsstudent priests.
Paul F. Oreffice president of Frederick taught for more than 30 of Iowa until his death last year. of teaching. 
Dow Chemical U.S.A. and a tlirec­On Good Frida~· the Pope will
tor and executive member of The participate in a night procession
Dow Chemical Company. will prc­through the scenic ruins of the
\l'nt an Executive Lecture Series 

Gulf to auction Alaskan ocean floor
Colosseum.
talk of "Free Enterprise or Control­led~" in the Memorial Lihrar~· on Environmental Qualitv to name
On Hoi~· Saturday the Pope will ANCHORAGE, Alaska (AP) -Court of Appeals in Washington
Auditorium at the Univn~ity of Notre Dame at J:IS p.m. Tuesday. attend a vigil in St. Peter's Basili­More than a million acres of Gulf of today to delay it. one, abo have criticiz~d prcsalc ca. Alaska waters and ocean floor go List Tucsd:l\'. U.S. District Court government propcrations.'' he
A rwtivc of ltalv and a 1949 on the auction block tomorrow in Judge Joseph C. Waddy rejected a said.
l'urdue Univer~ity graduate. Ord­
The heavy papal schedule of what many experts predict will be state bid for a two-or-three-yearfin· joined Dow in I9SJ and was al'livitics will climax on Easter the largest offshore lease sale in moratorium on the sale. The state Officials say there may be up tonamed Mediterranean Sales Man­when the pontiff will celebrate a the U.S. historv. argued that the sale should be I 0 billion barrels of recoverable oilagl'l' in 1955 and organi1.cr and mass in St. Peter's Basilica. After Interior Sccr~tary Thomas Klep­postponed because of environment in the storm-tossed gulf. But manager of Dow Chemical of Bnt1.il 
the mass he will deliver his Easter pe has ctimatcd up to $1 billion considerations. unlike Prudhoe Bay. there has beenin 19Sh. Later. in Spain. he was message and impart the Urbc ct may he offered by the 70 major oil State Attv. Gen. Avrum Gross little exploration and no develop­awarded the Order of Civil Merit Orbi--To the Citv and To the and gas companies which have said Friday ·the appeal of Waddy's ment activity in the sale area. Onlyfrom the government for disting­World--blcs!->ing from the main signed up to bid for more than I~0 ruling will be based on the state's one test well has been drilled 
Pope appeals to youth in Palm Sunday mass 
On Wednesday. leftists iauriched

VATICAN OTY (AP)-Pope Paul 
a tire bomb attack on the Justice in St. Peter's Basilka yesterday 
VI. celebrating Palm Sunday mass 
Ministry. and police shot and killed called on young people not to follow 
one of the raiders. On Thursday, the path of "force...and oppres­
extremists launched another tire sive revolution." Vatican sources 
bomb attack on the headquarters of the ruling Christian Democratic
said the appeal was a clear reference to a week of political violence in 
party. Saboteurs and arsonists also Italy. 
destroyed industrial and commer­cial property across the country. The 7H-ycar-old pontiff spoke to 
Before the mass the Pope blessed a crowd of 20.000. most of them the palms and olive branches on young. as he led millions of Homan the threshold of the large basilica.
Catholics throughout the world in The pontiff carried an olive branchHoly Week celebrations. 
himself as a sign of humility instead 
lli\hnl ~cn·il'e and signilicant con­
balcon~· of the basilica. 
tracts invovlcd. contention that the judge "placed
tribution~ to the dc~cloprncnt of 
If that estimate proves accurate. too much credence on the federal
the Spani~h d1emical and pla'>tics 
bids in this sale would eclipse the government's arguments."
industric~. 
Co-exchange 

$900 million put on the auction
lie wa~ named general manager "Their environmental impact
table in 1969 by companies rushing
of Dow Chemical Latin America in 
statement contained erroneous and
to be continued 
to develop Alaska's oil-rich Prud­
I%5 and president of Dow Chcrni­incomplete information and we
hoe Bav.

rallnteramcrican in 1%7. Oreflicc 
St. Mary's College and the have to remember that other
A 79~-mile steel pipeline is
moved to the Midland, Michigan University of Notre Dame have federal agencies. like the Council
midway complete to transport near­
oftit·e in I%9 where he became there--by Tenneco Oil Co. in 1969. 

NOW OPEN 
KELLEY'S SPORTLAND 

U.S. 31 NILES 

agreed to continue their student ly I0 billion barrels of oil from • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •
dirertor of financial services and co-exchange program for the aca­• • lirwncial vice president in 1970. He demic year 1976-77. according to a Prudhoe to a southern port on • 
FRESHMEN •
Alaska's coast. From there, it will :. :was cleL·ted to the board of din•c­
joint statement signed by Dr. John 
be shipped to the lower 48 states.
tors in 1971 and has served as M. Duggan, president of St. 
president since last August. Mary's and Rev. James T. Burt­The turn-on date for the pipeline •. INTERESTED IN JOINING :
is scheduled for July 1977 at a
Ordlit•c is a director of the First chaell, C.S.C., provost of Notre • • N;ttional Bank and Trust of Midland Dame. construction cost of $7 billion. .• FES TJI1"L COMMITTEE •
When the crude begins to flow, V .f"t
thl' Uow Badischc Company. Dow­The agreement retains features ell Srhlurnbcrgcr. European­
Prudhoe Bay's reserves will repre-:. SOPHOMORE LITERARY
first adopted in 1972-73 and in­
sent one-fifth of the nation's
American Bank and Trust Co. and cludes a ceiling quota of 3,000 
the Europcan-Amcrkan Banking domestic production. : 1976 1977 
hours at each institution. The The state of Alaska has objected • -.
Corp. He is president of Dow student co-exchange between the 
to the Gulf of Alaska sale, and : SIGN UP ROOM 309 O'SHAG
Chcmiral Investment and Finance neighboring institutions was start­officials said Friday they would file : BY WEDNESDAY APRil l4Co. ed in 1965. 
a motion with the U.S. District •• •• •••••• • • • • •• • •• • ••• •••••~~ ••~'i. •••••••••• 
~Eh>'iNNDOCKSiDE~~~~
I I
SPRING DINNE~ SPECIALS :::: Mon. & Tues. · Date Night . ~ j~~: Bring your wife or girlfriencf &'she receives anything on ~~l i~l~ menu at Y2 price -Gentlemen pay full price ~l~\
I Wed.:A~~~~m;r~m~!i:~tfish you can possibly eat I
all 

:::; for $4.50 (Let's see who con eat the most.) ::;:
I I 
::::: All specials include a trip to our famous salad bar, choice of ::;: ~~~~ potato, coffee or teo -22 lb. wheel of cheese & garlic toast. ~ 
~ Open 7 days a week for dinner & lunch ~ ~~~ Located on beautiful Diamond Lake, 
~=: ~:: East of Cassopolis, Mich. on highway M -60: 
Just 20 miles from Notre Dame 
~~:::::::::=~==~::::::::::::o;::::::::::-;:~'!.:::::::::::::::~::::::::~~~~~-=====:::::.:;,:~~ll'dll-•••••••;,
L

·, ...... ' .....•.•.·.·.·.···4·.~ ....·.•.· ~ .•.,,. •.• ..... "........ ,.. 7~ -...... ,. ·. ·'
0 0\. t o.' • O' O ."" • , • • • O O • O ~ , ~ • • 0 O 0 0 • .. 0 .. o 0 o 0 0 I 0 , o o 0 0 •' 

6 0 0 0 0 
10 the observer Monday, April 12, 1976 
•

Humphrey says that he'd w1n if nominated 
INDIANAPOLIS (AP) -Hubert ready." son-Jackson fund-raising In turn, Humphrey seemed to Republican mismanaged economy Humphrey, sounding like a well­Humphrey also indicated he is dinner, Humphrey denied that a downplay the significance of Car­all across this nation," he said. tested political race horse champ­letting up on his effots to keep recent appearance in Pennsylvania ter's early successes in the early Humphrey said workers' real ing at the presidential bit, says uncommitted delegates from an­was intended to draw attention primaries. wages have been driven back to he'd win in November if a dead­noucning for him and said he would away from the announced candi-•'These primaries are very un-1965 levels given a "40 per cent cut 
not let the schedules of announced
locked Democratic convention nom­dates. usual elections. You must not in ppurchasing power" and cited inated him. "I don't want anybody's candi-equate primaries with general elec­an increasing number of bankrupt­
presidential cndidates dictate his own political appearances.
"If I'm a candidate I'll win. dacy to determine where I'm going tions. Primaries are not general cies. Twelve-thousand businesses"In every state, there is someone
Make no mistake about it," the to appear. Simply because a elections. They're parochial. went bankrupt in 1975, he said. Minnesota senator declared. who wants to file as uncommitted candidate is in a state is not a They're limited. Frequently, He also accused the Administra­Humphrey said he is not "seek­friendly to Humphrey. And I go reason for Hubert Humphrey to they're one-issue oriented. Often tion of neglecting the unemploy­ing" the nomination. "I am not a around telling them 'please don't cancel his appearances. I don't times, they depend on how well ment problem. declaring. "Young candidate and I have said I am not. intend to be governed at all on that you're organized in a particular people by the millions are without
do that. Please don't do that.' Now I just simply say. 'Look if you
Bv that I mean I am not seeking the basis." area." jobs. A whole generation is being 
nomination fo;· the presidency... The former vice president. em-Humphrey endorsed the idea of ignored in our cities.
want to do it, it's your business. 
However. he added: "I have l'v~. got my business. I'll carry phasizing party unity. denied a regional primaries, saying they on.
said should my party need me at personal rift with front-runner would enable the candidates to the convention, I would consider it Speaking at a news conference Jimmy Carter, saying: ''I'm not better discuss the issues. Circle K named an honor to serve the party...I'm Saturday prior to the annual Jeffer-going to say one unkind word about His address to over 2,200 Demo-
Mr. Carter. I know him. I like him. crats at the Indiana Convention­
'Club of the Year' 
I just think Mr. Carter ought to Exposition Center was dominated.• es be awfully careful about wha~. he by a discussion of economic mat-For the second consecutive year 
says about Hubert Humphrey. ters. a subject Humphrey says is a the Notre Dame Circle K Club was Although he refused to clabo-Democratic issue in I976. named "Club of the Year" in rate, Humphrey was apparently "I am not going to let 'Mr. Indiana. The award was presented 
Cullinane proposes theor 
An industrial worker slows down percent) are impossible to perform referring to Carter's comment that Republican' talk about the recovery at the annual Indiana Circle Kand often makes more mistakes under. 
the Minnesota senator cannot win. and forget the casualties of the Convention in South Bend.
''hen his body must cope with very Investigations have shown that Circle K is a social service
hot working conditions. according an extremely conscientious worker to Dr. Thomas P. Cullinane, assist­or one motivated by high incentives Congressman Hayes to meet org.anization rcpre~cnt~ng t.he col­
legiate branch of K1wams, theant professor of aerospace and may try to continue with a normal 
mechanical engineering at the Uni­wo;k ioad in spite of the heat 
-Senator Hartke in debate ~~~~~~.sional men·s service organi­
,·crsitv of Notre Dame. stress. But. Cullinane continued. 
Among the 1975-76 school yearCu(linanc has studied the effects "the involuntary reactions of his activities of the club were a picnic
of industrial stresses, particularly body defending itself against dam­Congressman Phillip Hayes is Senator Hartke. Hayes' opponent high temperature-high humidity age will cause him to work at a scheduled to meet Senator Vance in the May 4 primary, calling him a at Warren Dunes with juveniles environments, on a worker's health lower rate and give less concentra­Hartke in a debate in the Library representative of special interests. from the Family and Children's 
Center in Mishawaka, year-long
safety, and productivity, and he ted attention to his job." Other auditorium at 7:30 Wednesday, Citing that the Hartke scat is suggests that the industrial engi­studies have shown that such April 14. The public is invited to viewed as especially vulnerable by volunteer work bv club members in neer must. by definition, be con­highly motivated workers show a come and meet 35-year-old Cong­Republicans, Hayes stressed the the swimming ind mobile devel­
opment programs at Logan Center,
cerned with the worker's environ­much higher deterioration in per­ressman Hayes, listen to the stands fact of history being on his side. ment. formance under thermal stress on the issues presented, and to ask For the first time is 48 years the newspaper sales for their annual 
Kiwanian drive, a fund-raising car"When a steel worker becomes than non-incentive workers. questions on any points left uncov­'cut-off' and 'turned-out' groups wash. bingo at Healthwin Hospital.
uncomfortably warm, he· cannot The engineering professor said ered. have a chance to express their simply sit back in the shade of the that the obvious cure. air-condition opinions on who they would like to Christmas caroling at three South 
Congressman Hayes brought his Bend nursing homes, assistance at
blast furnace door and drink frozen ing. is not always possible. For see as their Senator, Hayes 
"JUST PEOPLE" campaign to a local South Bend church in
lemonade," Cullinane said, but example, he said, in the weaving claimed. He then referred back to 
for the United Stated senatorial 1970 when he raised a campaign preparing Thanksgiving baskets,the victim of industrial heat stress industry, certain yarns are most 
nomination to South Bend last and a collection on campus for
will attempt to relieve his distress easliy handled under very warm, fund of $500 compared to his 
Friday night. Speaking to a small. ''Shamrocks for Dystrophy.''
in whatever way possible. "He moist condidtions. But he empha­opponent's $5,000. Hayes said he 
responsive crowd of party workers, learned that issue dominance takes The club is presently planning amay work more slowly hoping to sized that some kind of concession 
Congressman Hayes was intro­Blood Pressure Clinic at Scottsdale
relieve the heat stress by reducing must be made, even if it means precedence over money. so he has 
duced by State Representative Mall on April lOth and lith. Club
the amount of physical exertion, or allowing the worker to leave limited all contributions to nof 
Richard Bodine. Bodine called more than $100 and has spoken out members will be available from 1-5he may attempt to remove himself a high temperature area so his 
Hayes "a man of guts when guts p.m. at the Mall to take blood
from the stress entirely by taking body can recuperate. He also on the issues instead. 
weren't popular" for such actions pressures, referring those indivi­
frequent breaks,'' Cullinane said. suggested devices such as dehu­Hayes plugged for the variety of 
as his support of the ERA and for interests represented in the crowd. duals with abnormal blood prcs­"In both of these cases the quantity midifiers. fans. and protective clo­
of work output declines." thing. helping put an end to the seniority asking for their time, not their surb to seck a check-up with their system. Bodine then blasted physician.
For the majority of people, temperatures from 95 to 105 de­grees with the relative humidity at 
;: ++-:o+.~C·~~·~"T"T..,...,..,...,...,...,...,..
90 percent may be considered 
\HE * _. 
/1

intolerable, the Notre Dame pro­
NOW OFFERING 10 & 15%
fessor said, and one study shows 
~\\~\)QS'T l~ADINt; Co. : 
that for a marching task army of 
.. 
DISCOUNTS ON

enlisted men. temperatures and 
ROSS COUNTRY _.
relative humidities of 100 degrees 
.. 

F (88 percent) to IOS degrees F (68 
CASES OF WINE/liQUOR.
EQUIPMENT : RENTAL : 
100 

~r;;;7s·~···~ 
HOURS: 

$6.00 DAY
Center ~
: difference!!! \ 
MON-SAT

$8.00 WEEKEND :
: ,_M/ItE 1'011 : 
9:30-MIDNIGHT
• MCAT 

Our l!lrtan • 
Freeon Wednesd ~
• of llllflltnct • 
~----;;;;;:;;;;;;;;;;;;;;~ . '
: DAT ..,.\~t"' ! 
: LSAT S...,llclm•• • 
•. GRE • •. 
KEN'S DEN
WolurnoiiOul holftt 
: GMAT ''"dy "'a'""'' : 
HAIR STYLING -­
: Q(AT Courst~ thllart •
: . (pAT 

contl:llr u.,Uttd : 
MEN & WOMEN 
: VAT Iapt IKohlou lor : 
rtvotwl ol CIUI t 
ACROSS FROM 100 CENTER
: SAT 

ltnons and lor uu •
• FlEX of suppltrntntary • 
mattroall • 
(LINCOLNWAY WEST IN MISHAWAKA) 
: ECFMG • :
• Wa•e upt lor 

PHONE 255-6500 
• monrd ltuons • 
APPOINTMENTS PREFERRED
: NATl MED BDS : 
: NAT'L DENT BDS: 
Motr clal&et start 8 Wf'eks : pr1or ro Exam • 
Sprong & Foil compacn : Some courses offered on • Ma1or Campuses 
• 
• INDIANAPOLIS 
6620 Greenth.re Onve 
lnd11napolos. lnd 46220 13171 842-1267 
: • CHICAGO CENTER. 
•
• (312) 764-5151 
• 

i~~!ll
:. TlST"'fP,t.llt.&TKJN • e SP'I.CIAliSTS $1Nrf 11:. : 
.. --. ..,.............,_,,. .. ··~
l••... .....~~aJ!!..~ ~..... .• 
~~

............... 
-itCATF.RING 
FREE DELIVERY
: SPEtiALLy ~TO THE (with $15.00 minimum purchase.) 
_. ND-SMC ~COMMUNITY PHONE: 259·0261 ~ 
~···························••+••••• 
··············~-~~·---·· 
.>.o.J
• 
Budweis~r® 
·~
+o 

·~ ~ eagleJ~
·~ 

·~ ~ori« 
·~ 100 CENTER COMPLEX
·~ 
+m

··~ 
any regular ·~ OFF priced item
.~ 

with this ad. 
@
·~ 

:BUSCH® MICHELOB~ A&Eagle
• 

'' • ' • I f • • ~ • .. • 
. .; ....... -. 

• -~ • ~ l • • -1 .....~ 
., 

:·.· 
,. ·t -., ' ( I " It • ' -~ .r \ ·'(• • 
.... ~::~·'·'·'··' ··.--.. ·.·\··•; _1' • ' ~. 
.. ~.-:-·.r~~~--.... ~ .... ', '.;, :"' 0 • 0 0 • ~ 0 • 0 : 0 •: : ! ~--::..·'>-... •'I. .. • • 1, V '\' \c • ,j. ~· \.' .,. •' ·.: :.. 'o. • \ 
~-----·------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Monday, April12, 1976 the observer 1 1 
Red army 'to deal resolute blows' 
Ousted VP's followers threatened ..............................................
. 
TOKYO (APl -China's army vowed to "deal resolute blows" to sup­porter~ of ousted Vice Premier Tl·ng Hsiao-ping. as mass rallies condemning him spread to live Chinese provinces, Peking broad­ca~t!-> ~aid ve~tl·nla v. 
"From t;flices h; barracks. from sea islands to frontier outposts. a revlutionary atmosphere of unity in ~truggle now prevails in these People's Revolutionary Army units !>tationed across the countv." the oftirial 1-lsinhua news agcnc~· said. 
The agency added mass rallies against Tcng were held in Shansi. Honan. Shen~i. Yunnan and Shan­tung provinces in the past few davs. attended hv workers. sol­dier~ women anct" peasants. As many a~ .100.000 :~ttcnded ~nn!C 
Energy Coalition to hold meeting 
The Cititcn:-. Energy Coalition of St. Joseph County will sponsor a loc:tl puhlil· hearing at the South lknd Lihrarv Auditorium from 7:00 
p.m. to 9:.1(l p.m. The purpose of thi.., public hearing is to provide a public forum where the local cus­tomer~ can express their views on the proposed JJ'Y., rate increase by Indian:~ & Michigan Electric Com­pany. 
I&M has petitioned the Ptrblk Service Commis~ion (PSC) for a rate increase, which if approved would increase the bill for the average residential customer by $H.hh :1 month (excluding fuel cost adju'>lmcnt). The proposed rate <,da·dull' would increase the bill of a residential customer using 870 kilowatt hours of clcctricitv a month--the average consumpti;m of I& M cu<,tomers--from $26.05 to $.14. 71. 
NOTICES  
W dl do typing, experie nced.  Term  
papers,  manuscripts,  etc.  Call  
233 8512.  

Nominations for SMC class and hall olficers and Student Assembly open Thursday, April 8. Platforms due to Room 298 LeMans by midnite Wednesday, April 14. Questions call Mindy 4849. 
Typing, s.j5 per page, call Dan 272 5549. 
Morrissey loan closes Tuesday, April 13. All loans must be paid by then. Hours 11:15-12:15, call 7442, 8220, or 8I05. 
Rugby shirts, get the same shirts as the cheerleaders in blue-gold, green gold, and red-blue for $13. Call Dave 277-0948. 
Linda's Letters, dissertations spe­cialists, typing at student rates, 289 5I93. 
Stereo components, 20·40 percent discount. all quality name brands, RMS Audio, 321 S. Main, 288 I681, M F 12 :00 6 :00. 
Accurate fast typing. Hours 8 A.M. to 8 P.M., Mrs. Donoho, 232-0746. 
Typing wanted. pick up and delivery reasonable. 683 7759. 
Anyone interested in babysitting for faculty and staff members, please call the Ombudsmen Service ext. 7638. 
Having a partyY For the lowest prices on kegs and cases and free delivery, call Dave at 277-0948. 
FOR SALE 

For Sale: 1 blue-gold ND lacket, real cheap, 287-5218.
.______________..., 
My father Is liquidating lllpDI._ store. Must sell 50 retrlg"'*"­will sell for unbelievably low prldll Call Biv 6891. 
waterbed.king size double S35 call Frank 8656. 
For sale: 10.speed Huffy Olympia bicycle, $60 or best offer, Dan 288 3025. 
rallies, the agency said. 
The broadcast quoted Liu Hsing­yuan, commander of Chengtu units, as saying the struggle would go on to a greater depth, meaning there still were backers of Tcng's policies to be won over or purged. 
The reference to victory meant Chairman Mao Tse-tung's·removal of Tcng from all Communist party and government posts and his elevation of 1-lua Kuo-fcng to full primier and party tirst vice chair­man last Wednesday. 
Hadio Peking reported late Sat­urday pro-Tcng demonstrators kil­led one person in Chcngchow in I-Itman province during last week's protests pr<"ceding the purge of Teng. It was the first word that the demonstrations were not contincd to the e;~pital. 
It was also rqwrtcd Saturday. by Hsinhua. that President Ford had written Hua congratulating him on his appointment as premier and advising him that the United States b determined to complete normali­zation of U.S.-Chinesc relations. Ford said Thomas S. Gates, the newly-appointed American envoy to the U.S. Liaison Oftice in Peking, will be going there in May. 
Teng has been accused of ignor­ing Mao's ideological struggle against bourgeois influences and concentrating on economic advan­ces, even if this meant using experts who were not ideologically pure. 
The official press said these policies would have meant the restoration of capitalism and ex­ploitation of the workers and peasants in China. 
Hsinhua said Wang Pi-cheng, conmwnder of Kunming military units, declared the army "will never tolerate sabotage and disrup­tion by a handful of counterrevolu­tionaries." 
"We will obey orders from Chairman Mao and the Party Central Committee in all our ac­tions, resolutely smash the enemy's sabotage and carry through to the end the struggle to beat back the rightist-cleviationist attempt.'' 
Sociology Club plans dinner 
The Notre Dame Sociology Club is planning a dinner for Sociology and Anthropology majors on Mon­day. April 26 at Morrows Hcstau­rant. The agenda will include a review of the events of the past year in the department, and plans for the upcoming fall and spring semesters. 
Among the topics to be discussed will be the Sociology Convention held on April 2nd and Jrd. AKD (Alpha Kappa Delta) membership and ccrtillcatc presentation to pre­sent majors. and graduate schools. 
Classified Ads 
Stereo for sale AU-7500 Amp Ken­wood K T 6005 Tuner, Garrard Zero 92 turntable Pioneer 3 way speakers call Frank at 234 6535. 
Dual 1229Q changer, $180 call Len at 289 8990, less than 1 year old, excellent condition. 
Under· Pioneer car stereo cassette 
player used, 6 months, auto reverse, 
$60, call Tom 3579. 
1973 Fiat 128 SL, 29.000 mites, $1,300 call 277·2420 after 7 P.M. 
Mazda, 1973 RX3, 34,000 miles, new tires, air conditioning, $1,000, call 234-5939 evenings. 
FOR RENT 

House, 3·people, $150 plus utilities, 914 Notre Dame, 234-5646. 
3·bedroom Duplex also four and six bedroom houses available for Sept. completely furnished, call 234·9364. 
4 and 6 bedroom houses for Sept. 1976, good neighborhoods near NO, reasonable rates, contact MR. Gallo 234 ·6688. 
Summer houses and rooms for rent, real close to campus, turn ished ridiculously reasonable. 233-2613 or 232.7263. 
5·room house within walking dis­tance of NO 233·6438. 
For summer rental, super 4 bed­room fully furnished house near Jeff.·Eddy. Washer, dryer, all utilities, $175. 234-1972. 
Milliken Rentals, 282-2089 233-5833 House and apartments, available for June or Sept. 
WANTED 

Need ride for two to Milwaukee, leave Thurs. after 2:30. Call Kathy 1272. 
Need ride for Easter, anywhere around Ph illy after 12:30 Thursday, wilt pay, drive, etc. Call John 1061. 
2·7 bedroom houses for 3 month summer rentals. All furnished. Call 288·6259 after 6 p.m. 
Following the discussion and certificate presentation, Dr. Isabel Charles, Dean of Arts and Letters, will deliver remarks to the group. 
It is hoped that a good turnout will encourage the Sociology and Anthropology majors to become more involed in activities within the department's student organiza­tions. 
For those interested in attending contact Mark 1776, Joel 1787, or Eel S793 for reservations by Wednes­day April 14. It is important to call early. since reservations arc limit­ed. 
Need ride to Chicago for break, call Mary 4438. 
Two girls need ride to Columbus, Ol1io for Easter, will share driving and money. Call Anne 4·5325 or Kathy 4·4202. 
Ride to Boston for Easter leave anytime, or a ride back from Boston, Steve 1771. 
Driving to Los Angeles, April 15, will share expenses and driving. Keith 234·2960 (home) 237-2698 (work). 
LOST AND FOUND 
Lost: female Irish setter, call 287­5218. 
Lost: 1 pair of men's black framed bifocals on campus. If found. call 8661 after 5 P.M. call 232-3217. Reward. 
Lost: one large copper brass and silver twist bracelet. call Duff 1470. 
Lost: beloved earthenware coffee mug in library basement seminar room G236, after noon on Monday, April 5. $5 reward. 234-9386. 
PERSONALS 
Our Ziggy Baby says: She's never fell so loose--Is that true Tobin? 
Nobody ever had a rainbow baby until he had the rain-.Keeches 
Bonehead, Your eyes are bad, your hair is kinky, you have a Iettish for action in the shphinky. 
L.J. (the incredile Hector) 
Kelley, Happy 21st birthday, and many more!! PeeWee 
There was a young CAMEL 
Who liked to drink brew. 
She had so many suitors 
She didn't know what to do. 
To the Rugby team 
She was their queen 
And the men of Lacrosse 
Though_! her to be really boss. 
But time will tell 

This young lass' fate 
For one more cross on 'the boys' 
And It wilt be too late. 
THIS WEEK 
1

MONDAY ALL DRINKS /2 PRICE WEDNESDAY DRINK 'N DROWN THURSDAY PITCHER BEER NIGHT 
DANCE TO 

COMMON PEOPLE THE WHITE HOUSE INN 
CLOSED TUESDAYS 
2839 N. 5th ST. NILES 683-9842 
Quick starts. Sure stops. Nimble-tooted security in the style of the pros. PRO-Keds. 
Wear PRO-Keds Court King­
• 
Lace-to-toe design for firm, adjustable fit 

• 
Sturdy, long-wearing army duck uppers 

• 
Flexible shank 


• 
Reinforced toe guard 

• 
Ventilating, large lacing eyelets 


COURT KING 
$10.95 

·NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
PRO-Keds 
BASKETBALL 
Drop-ins 


NOTRE DAME 
BOOKSTORE 


12 the observer 
Second team shines in scrimmage
by Ray O'Brien the second team offense. Bonder connected on six of 15 passes for . . . . . . · · +~f" ..,.,.,"~-~--1--""" again trudged out most of the 104 yards. Bonder ran well for the . · .. ~-~·· F· -. _ 

The Irish gridders went through yardage in the 40 yard drive. second team picking up 63 yards on "' -::•:·• a two and a half hour scrimmage Palazola connected with Knott for 17 carries. Knott added 22 yards Saturday in a big step toward the 17 years and then came back and on the ground and 90 yards on six Blue-Gold game which is less than hit wide receiver Dan Kelleher for receptions. three weeks away. nine more yards and the score. The entire second team second-
The lengthy practice allowed Rick Slager, starting at quarter-ary played well throughout the both the offense and defense to back for the first team, didn't waste scrimmage. Linebacker John Du­work on fundamentals and work out much time picking up a touchdown. benetsky had the big play of the any major flaws. The team's great Jerome Heavens and AI Hunter day and drew applause from the depth and the close rivalries going took turns carrying the pigskin crowd when he picked off an errant on for starting spots initiated down the field. Slager took the ball Slager pass and raced 65 yards for spirited and competitive play be-in himself on an option play from a touchdown. tween the first and second teams. four yards out. The first team offense looked The second team managed to score The next time down the offense much improved although they still for times which was one more than was not as successful as the second fell victim to costly mistakes during the first team's total of three team defensive secondary knocked long drives. Slager finished five for touchdown drives. down Slager passes. Kicker Dave 14 for 44 yards in the passing 
Gary Forystek, starting at quart-Reeve came in and showed good category. Montana hit on seven of crback for the second team, engin-early season form by splitting the 13 passes for 74 yards. cered two of the four touchdown uprights from 36 years out. Hunter and Heavens ran super-drives. Forystek split the first Joe Montana then came in to bly throughout the scrimmage. team's secondary several times direct the first team offense. Heavens carried 15 times for 49 during the afternoon, although Hunter and Heavens did all the yards while Hunter broke for 78 high gusting winds hampered any damage on five straight runs that yards on the same amount of aerial attack. covered the 20 yard distance. carries. Steve Schmitz added 24 
The tirst score for the second Heavens scored this time as he yards to the running attack and team was a Forystek to Dan Knott plunged in from the one yard line. pulled in four passes for 21 more pass for 18 yards. This combina-Montana hit runningback Steve yards. tion was successful many times as Schmitz several times during his The first team defense was hot Knott managed to get open after second drive for good yardage. and cold throughout the day. The coming out of the backfield. The first team offense finally front line was penetrated several John Dubenetsky's big plays led the Irish second team defense 
The second team offense tallied showed consistency on the last times but they always seemed to in its stellar performance during Saturday's grid scrimmage. again later on with a SO yard drive. scoring drive of the day. Slager come up with the big play. Ross [Photo by Chris Smith] Frank Bonder ran well in this series used short passes and plunges up Browner and Tony Zappalla looked scnmmage as he commented, "It missing captain Mark McLane and of plays breaking through the first the middle to pick apart the good from their defensive end was a spirited workout. I am Terry Eurick from the backfield. team's defensive line for gains of defense. He connected on his last positions. Outside linebacker Ste-pleased with the spirit exhibited by The defense played without captain 10 and 13 yards. Forystek did an three aerials of the day. Kris ver Heimkrieter played outstand-the team but we will need work. defensive tackle Willie Fry. excellent job of mixing up the Haines, starting at wide receiver ingly for the first team. We need to improve our skills." The next scrimmage is Wednes­ground and air attack to keep the for the first team, pulled in two Devine was satisfied with the Devine noted that the offense was day at 4:30p.m. on Cartier field. defense guessing. A 25 yard pass Slager passes for 16 years and from Forystek to Knott did most of All-American tight end Ken Mac-the damage. Bonder crashed Afee hauled in the third pass. through from the one yard line for Heavens scored for the second time the score. as he swept right for four yards and 
Holy Toledo! Irish blasted 
Jay Palazola and Rusty Lisch the touchdown. 
by Rich Odioso received further bad news Sunday games not one has been charged tosplit the rest of the quarterbacking The second team played well all when a doctor's examination re-freshman shortstop Rick Pullano..
duties for the second team. day. Forystek topped all quarter-Like a drunk after a three-day vealed that center fielder Stan Tom Walbrun is also doing a tinePalazola directed the third score for backs in passing yardage as he bender the Notre Dame baseball Bobowski will miss at least two job with the glove in Iefttield. . team finds itself a little groggy weeks with a strained knee...It Bob Stratta and Catcher Tim
Bookstore b-ball reaches 
today after a lost weekend that saw should be noted that among Notre Pollock had homers in Saturday's them drop five games. Dame's 23 errors in the last six first game. . . . ....'Scintillating 64' sectionals The Irish beat themselves in the Fred Herbst===========================::=====:============:=:======·==·=:================:=:======:==·=======:::;::::::;;;;. a scare breaking open from 14-12 to 
first two games and then were
by Rich Odioso 

content to let the opposition do it in 
turn back Riders of the Apocalypse. 
the next three.
21-15. Apocalypse. a group ofThe Fifth Annual Bookstore Bas­
Notre Dame fell three times in 
As Time Goes By
Moreau Seminarians, was led byketball Tournament is down to its 
Peoria against Bradley 8-5 on
"Monk" Malloy, a three-year IrishScintillating 64 with 32 games to be 
Friday and 11-10.7-1 on Saturday.
varsity starter in the early '60's,
contested this evening in the 
Back home yesterday on glacial
sectional semi-finals. who pumped in 7 baskets. none ·=·:·=·=·=·=·=·=·=v=-=·=·=·=·=·=·=·~x=·=-=-=·=·=·=·=·=·:·=·=·:·=·=·=·=·=·=·=.=·w.: The second unit 
from less than 25 feet. Jake Kline Field, Toledo tore into ..-Sonietlilng. iiniq"ue""Ii~'{ii)ened" "a( Saturday's football scrimmage -theSunday's action saw a pair of the Irish 13-3, 11-3.
Bill Laimbeer and the Poseidon second team beat the first team. The odds that the second team wouldvarsity player's teams bite the 
Notre Dame was never in either
Adventure may be slipping. They beat the first team are about the same as the odds that the Chicago Bears
dust. Unsung Jim Budde put the 
game Sunday. In the opener
posted their second 21-4 win. this will win the NFL Championship this season, but none-the-less itdefensive clamps on Bernard Ren­
Toledo scored four unearned runs
time over the Cunning Linguists, happened.
cher limiting Nardo to 10-28 shoot­
in the first inning and moved to a
but Sunday it took them all of 17 For those who have been watching the Irish gridders workout thising and blocking three Rencher 
9-0 lead before the rish stirred to
minutes, five minutes longer than spring, Saturday's scrimmage wasn't any great surprise. The secondshots as Boogie Fever upended the life.
in Thursday's opener. Laimbeer team offense and defense havebeen playing well throughout the springSkidders 21-15. Budde also cleared 
In the nightcap starter Joe
set a Bookstore record with 7 session, and Saturday they played exceedingly well.
12 rebounds while Tom Crudele led 
Karpowicz lasted only five batters
blocked shots but only dunked Led by the hard running of Frank Bonder and the line play of Vincethe Boogie Fever attack with 8 
and did not retire a man as the
three times. Klees, Kevin Hart, Tom Gullickson, Ted Horansky, Rey Pattillo and Johnbaskets. 
Rockets notched a six-run inning.
For the second day in a row Driscoll the second team offense moved the ball consistently well against""The" with Randy Haefner was 
The Irish now 5-12

SWAT started its contest with only the first defense.
the other upset victim falling to the four players and again jumped to a host Bowling Gre~n in a 1 p.m. But while the offense was impressive, it was the second defense thatKardiac 5, 21-14. Kardiac is the 
doubleheader on Tuesday.
5-0 lead before Toby Knight show­shined. Behind John Dubenetsky's interception and 65-yard touchdownonly four year team in the tourney. 
ed up. Knight still scored seven return of a Rick Slager pass the second squad totally thwarted the firstOtherwise though it was things 
IRISH ITEMS-Coach Tom Kelly
baskets as his team SW A Ted the team offense. Linebackers Tom Eastman, John Likovich and Dubenetsky
as expeded. 

Silk Torpedoes 21-2. joined with Gene Smith, Ron Crews, Don Rodenkirk, Mike Calhoun, TomAverage White Team had a bit of 
TILCS went SWAT one better WSND announces Flynn, Tim Simon, Ross Christensen and Ronnie Cullens to practically starting their game with only three manhandle the first offensive unit.
Ara designates new sports staff
players but still led 3-1 when Dave When it was all over the second team had four scores while the first Kelly showed up. It was 8-1 when The Sports Department of WS­team had managed only three. Just keeping the scoring close is a victory
All-Star coaches 
John Dubcnetzky arrived but short­ND has announced the appoint­for the second team on most occassions, but to actually out-score the first 
Former Notre Dame head foot­ly thereafter Tom Kirby pulled up ment of its new sports director and team is unheard of. Afterall, in last season's Blue-Gold scrimmage the ball coach Ara Parseghian Saturday with a bad knee. TILCS still won assistant sports directors for the first team trounced the second team. named an eight-man coaching staff 21-8 over the Student Managers as coming school year. The recent The question is, how did this happen? Is the second team that good or to a~sist him in preparing the Bill Sahm went for 12 baskets. appointees assumed duties on is the first team that bad? Almost certainly the answer lies someplace 
College All-Stars for their game Dave Batton was content with 3 April I. between. "·ith the world champion profes­hoops but blocked 6 shots. Outgoing Sports Director John It's about time that people realized that Notre Dame's second team is an ~ional Pittsburgh Steclers on July First Round Elimination advanc­Vozzo has named Ted Robinson to excellent one. The players that compose the second team at Notre Dame 23 in Chicago's Soldier Field. ed to the third round with a 21-19 fill the directorship. Robinson, a could be stars at any number of other schools in the country. In fact, they Heading the staff are five of upset of the Golden Drones. FRE sophomore American Studies ma­could be stars at Notre Dame given the opportunity, but that opportunity Par~cghian's former Notre Dame is the only team with women (2) left jor from Rockville Center, New is hard to come by at a school with so many excellent football players. aids. They are Paul Shoults. Tom in the Scintillating 64. This York, will be in charge of all sports Despite the fact that the opportunity to play on the first team is hard to Pagna. George Kelly. Greg Blachc eveining they'll play Ashad Mar­programming. personnel and play­get and that the players on the Irish second squad aren't well known, they and Mike Stock. Shoults and Kelly had and the Cream Co. at 5:30 on by-play production. do have two things going for them. First, they're excellent football 
are' still members of the Irish staff Bookstore 9. Paul 'Frenchie' Hess has been players. Secondly, and probably more importantly, they all have a great while Blache has moved to Tulane In games on the Bookstore 10 selected to assume one of the deal of pride in themselves and their abilities. C niversity, St~ck to Wisconsin and championship court this evening: assistant sports directors positions. Anytime you have this combination, what happened Saturday is a 
Pagna has retired from coa.:hing to The Poseidon Adventure and Bill Hess is a sophomore American distinct possibility. The first team was off, and the second team took ,.. ork for Ara Parseghian and Laimbeer takes on the Rough Studies major and claims Cincin­advantage of it to show just how good they are. Associates. Riders at 4, powerful Black Prince natti, Ohio as his home residence. It's one thing to be on the second team, it's another to accept it. How 
Rounding out the staff are Sid and the 4 Knights meets Boogie His duties will be related to the good is a football player if he's satisfied with being on the second squad? Gillman, who coached Parseghian Fever. upset winners over Nardo's coverage of all campus and club Every player on the second team is out to prove that the coaching staff is in college at Miami of Ohio and has Skidders at 4:45, and Capons, with sporting events. wrong about him, that he should be starting. No one can blame a player a total of 17 years experience as a Rick Slager and Russ Korman, The other assistant sports direc­for that. head coach in the pros; Harold takes on Stash and his Cold tor is to be Mike 'Monte' Towle. All of this isn't meant to criticize the first team. In fact, it's to the credit Raymond, head coach at Delaware Showers at 6:30. In the feature Towle is also a sophomore Ameri­of the first team that they've been able to move ahead of the talented and a graduate of Michigan; and game of the night Average White can Studies major and hails from players on the second squad. Dave Levy. assistant athletic direc­Team is confronted with upset­Richford, Vermont. His area of Just don't underestimate the value and ability of the players on the tor at Southern Cal and former minded Reggie Jackson and the concerns will revolve around wire second team. A few more scrimmages like last Saturday and they might assistant to Johl} McKay. Ki.ss My .'/Jt.s O's at 5:30 editing, and producing interviews. not be second team anymore. 









