
by Mary Mungovan p.m. in the Hayes-Healy Auditor­"Over 700 students are participat­in 7 departments which deal iwth Bowler are editors of the news­Senior Staff Reporter ium. Speakers will include James ing in the Wednesday Night Fast third-world development and glob­letter, a national publication which Sterba, professor of social philos­Progrm this semester, which will al injustice. will be distributed three times a 
The Notre Dame World Hunger ophy; John Lyon, professor of bring in close to $7,000," Allen included a grocery price survey, an semester beginning next fall. Coalition and lnPirg will commem· General Program; and Animesh announced. environmental education seminar Coalition members also took over orate national "Food Day" today Ghoshal. professor of international According to Greg Gramelspach­and a consumer handbook," he the daily collections outside diningwith "a seri~s of cortsciousness­finance. er, research chairman, 75 percent added. halls from AI Sondej (Notre Dame) raising events,'' Doug Allen, Coal­Fr. Frank Quinlivan. director of of the money will go to overseas In addition to Food Day, other and Greg Gramelspachcr (St. ition coordmator announced yes­the South Bend Justice and Peace relief agencies (OXFAM. CARE, Coalition projects for the current Mary's) ye:;terday. Some 42 terday. Commission, will celebrate mass at UNICEF, Catholic Relief Services semester include the publication of members will collect one night a 
Today's activities will include a 10 p.m. in Sacred Heart Church, and Churcn World Services) select­a newsletter, daily -collections, the week at six Notre Dame and St. food bazaar, a seminar, a rice and concluding the day's events. ed for their "low administrative Dining Hall Fast Program, a lec­Mary's dining hall positions. tea meal. a panel discussion with ·'We hope to make people more costs and proven efficiency in ture by Nathan Grey of OXFAM "We hope to carry on the line Notre Dame faculty and a campus­aware of the food crisis and help self-help development." The re­and a course evaluation booklet. tradition of selflessness and con­wide mass. people to regain control of the maining 25 percent will go to the cern which AI and Greg have 
"Food Day" begins with a fond pricing. quality and availability of poor of South Bend. Newsletter distributed begun," Allen declared. bazaar from 11-3 on South Quaq food." Joe Turek, campus lnPirg The final project for the semes­Since Sondej began in Sepll'lll directed by lnPirg's Steven Spiel. director, declared. ter. undertaken in conjunction and The Coalition distributed the first ber, 1974, he has collected over Various health food stores, ethnic the Program on Non-Violence, is issue of its newspaper, The Global $25,000. Sondej plans to work for groups. nutritionistsandothers will Food Day's Sel·ond Year the compilation of a course evalua­Citizen, last night in the dining World Watch in Wachington, D.C. set up booths to give out food tion booklet describing 41 courses halls. Mary Hesburgh and Mike beginning this summer. samples and information. Food Day is in its second year as 
"Faculty and students who have a national event. "On Paril 17, lived in third-and fourth-world 1975. the first national Food Day 
Faculty Senate in opposition to
countric~ and witnessed global was celebrated with teach-ins, injustice" will participate in a workshops and fasts nationwide," seminar discussion. "Personal ex­Allen explained. "This year, after 

elimination of evening exams
pcricnl'CS in Underdeveloped a declaration from the mayor, manyCountries" from 2:30 until 4 in the South Bend parishes and commun­by Maureen Flynn In response to the policy an­
library auditorium. according to ities arc also participating." According to Burtchaell, no
Campus Editor 
nouncement made Monday by Uni­classes are scheduled for the 8TTIO 

Allen. The Notre Dame World Hunger 
Rice and Tea Meals will be held versity Provost Fr. James T. period, although the course selec­
Coalition: Students for World Con­

The Faculty Senate last night 
Burtchaell, the Faculty Senate

on both campuses: from 5 to 6:30 in cern was begun in November 1974 tion book currently lists two fresh­
passed a statement which effective­
passed the following resolution:

the Knights of Columbus building to educate the campus and South man chemistry labs, several lan­
ly opposes an administrative pol­
"The Faculty Senate supports

and from 4:30 to 6: IS at the St. Bend communities about global guage sections, and an advanced
icy change that eliminates evening 
the right of departmental teaching

Marv's snack bar. "At both meals, injustice, research solutions and to engineering course at that time.
departmental examinations. Ac­
faculty to determine the best times

Coalition members will present raise funds, according to Allen. cording to the new policy, tests in for administration of their
slide shows and distribute litera­The Coalition has approxomately own Suggest teacher trustees
multi-sectional courses will be 
examinations, according to aca­

ture about the food crisis," Allen ISO members. 
scheduled at 8 a.m. on Tuesdays 
demic needs."

explained. AI Sondej and Greg lnPirg is a student-based con­In other business last night, the
and Thursdays, and the 8TT10 
In discussion preceding the vote, 

Gramcspachcr will speak at the St. sumer advocacy organization with Faculty Senate passed a recom­
class period will be eliminated from 
Senate members cited student polls 

Mary's meal. approximately 125 members. "We the regular class schedule. mendation to the Board of Trustees 
taken in their various departments

Prof. Basil O'Leary, ·director of are a rcsearl·h group concerned that at least two of the Board's
The decision, which takes effect 
which indicate overwhelming pre­

the Program on Non-Violence. will with fair employment, consumer members be serving concurrently
next semester, also places a max­
ference for evening examinations. 

moderate a panel discussion entitl­and housmg practices," Turek as full-time members of a Univer­
imum time limit of one hour and 
Some members also said that the sity faculty, without major adminis­ed "An Unequal Contest" at 8 stated. "This year's projects five minuteson such examinations. present flexible time allotments trative responsibilities. 

serve to relieve some of the "In order to assure that the 
pressure on students taking exams. 
constituency represented by these

Lowenstein lectures on abuse 
When contacted last night, Burt­
trustees is learmng Itself, rather chaell explained the policy change than any particular local interest,"
by saying, "We're basically trying the recommendatfon states. "we


of power, Kennedy shootings 
to unclutter the evenings for stud­recommend that the (nominating) ents. We found that freshmen and committee seek the best candidates abuses of power by agencies of the audience as a sensationalist, but

by Dave O'Keefe sophomores have so terribly many available, without restrictions 
Staff Reporter federal government. "Some of it is was very candid and direct. He did 
tests. It would be a shame if they based on their current academic so grotesque," he said, "that you say that these activities have 

had to wait till they were juniors to affiliation." AI Lowenstein, former Demo­may thing it was made up." "jeopardized and jaded our free­attend their first concert or lec­
The Senate also selected from 

from He spoke dom in a way we never understood
cratic Congressman Long of the unsuccessful ture, Burtchaellcontinued. "And if lists of interested faculty. nominees 
Island. spoke last night on "The efforts of the CIA in preventing the before.'' they have the whole evening, on the Student Life
for positionsaccession of Salvador Allende in Lowenstein then moved to the

Abuse of Power in America and the they're less likely to stay up all Council and the Academic Affairs
Chile as well as the agency's subject of the Kennedy and King
Kennedy Killings" to an interested night." 
Committee of the Board of Trus­

and responsive audience in the cooperative attempts with organiz­assassinations. He spoke at length One possible result of the change tees. Dr. Sheridan P. McCabe,
ed crime to assassinate Cuban about the difficulties he encounter­
LaFortune Ballroom. may be a decrease in the number of acting chairman of the DepartmentLowenstein was a personal friend dictator Fidel Castro. ed in trying to find out the truth tests given. Burtchaell comment­of Graduate Studies in Education,Lowenstein also cited various about the killing of Robert Ken­
of Robert Kennedy and one of the ed, "That might be good, but we'll was unanimously elected to the 
principal founders of the "Dump incidents of violations by the FBI. nedy. He cited discrepencies in leave it up to the teachers to He pointed to J. Edgar Hoover's eyewitness testimony, and doubt as (continued on page 3)
Johnson·' campaign in 1968. It decide." 
letter to Martin Luther King, Jr. to the number of bullets fired in the was Lownstein who persuaded 
kitchen pantry of the Ambassador
RFK to run for the nomination, and urging him to commit suicide it was Lownestein that Kennedy rather than accept the Nobel Peace Hotel as two difficulties in the 
University suspends last 

case pointing to Sirhan Sirhan as
was going to call from California Prize, and other abuses by the shortly after he delivered his bureau aimed at "poisoning the the lone assassin. 
Lowenstein spoke
victory speech the night of June 6. public mind against the groups that also of the week's arrested students 
the government didn't like." shootings of John F. Kennedy andLowenstein began his straight­
When acts, Marting King,
forward presentation by catolog­describing these Luther but was careful not to say each killing was by Tom O'NeU serious violation."
ing a number of examples of illegal Lowenstein never appealed to his the result of conspiracy. "At this Editor In Chief "The students will have the 

point anyone who doesn't believe opportunity to appeal the decision that conspiratorial murders occur of suspension before the Appeals in this country hasn't thought it The three Notre Dame students Board," Roemer stated. "But I do out. This is clear. It isn't a arrested last week for possession not believe that the action I have 
question of whether or not conspir­and delivery of a controlled sub­taken will prejudice their trial." atorial murders occur," he added, stance have been suspended from The three students, senior Chris­"but which ones are conspriator­the University, according to James topher Cannon, junior Thomas ial." Roemer, dean of students. Flynn and sophomore Michael 
"It doesn't make sense to be­Roemer stated that the decision Kohlmiller could not be reached for lieve that everything is conspir­which was announced yesterday, comment concerning whether or atorial any more than it doesn't was made in consideration of a not they will appeal the suspen­
make sense to believe that nothing university regulation on disciplin­sions. is." ary procedure which states: "In Kohmiller has been charged by 

Lowenstein had opened his re­emergencies where the Dean of South Bend authorities with de­marks by saying. "It is no longer Students judges there to be im­livering 4.326 grams of ampheta­possible to go back to the sense of menent danger or serious harm to mines to a police agent on January innocence in the United States that persons or to property, or serious 30. we have grown up with and obstruction of University life, he Flynn faces charges of delivering cherished.'' may summarily suspend and even 23 grams of marijuana and 0.125 
But he concluded on an optimis­expel students." grams of amphetamines to a police tic note, telling his audience that Also considered in his decision to agent of Jan 25. they arc heirs to the nation and left suspend the students, according to Cannon has been charged with 
them with the warning, "If we Roemer, was a university rule delivering 6.517 grams of amphet­


Former Democratic Congressman, AI Lowenstein, talked last night don't make an effort to find out which states: "Providing for others amines to a police agent on Feb 5. about the abuse of power in America and the Kennedy assassinations about these things, it's like eiving a by sale or otherwise, marijuana or All three will be pleading "not in the LaFortune Ballroom [Photo by Tony Chifari]. ' license to accept whatever hap­any dangerous drug is considered a guilty" in court. 
pens." 
the observer Thursday, April 8, 1976 


,_-----News Brief 
J=====================lntemational 
Two hostages released 
MANILLA,The Philippines -Three hijackers holding 73 hostages aboard a Philippine Airlines jet agreed this morning to free a mother and her child, air force ingormation officer Lt. Col. Pablo Gonzales reported. 
--On Campus Today-~ 
8:30am --seminar, "emerging women in society," spon­sored by women's management club and business administration, cce.  
9 am  _ 5 pm --workshop, painting workshop by don king, western  

michigan university, fieldhouse. 11 am -3 pm ·bazaar, food day bazaar, booth on south quad. 
12:15 pm 2:30pm 
3:30pm 3:30pm 
4 pm 
4 pm 
4:30pm 
5 pm 
5:15pm 7:30pm 8 pm 
8 pm 
8 pm 
8:15pm 10 pm 
--mass, Iafortune ballroom. 
--seminar, "personal experiences in underdevelop­ed countries," sponsored by world hunger coalition, library aud. 
--computer course, "using the calcomp plotter," room 115, computer center-math building. 
--coffee hour, n.d. faculty women wi II host a coffee hour for all n.d. graduate women, library lounge. 
--lecture, "direct and prompt indirect ionization of chloride and sulfate ions in H20 and D20 by pulse radialysis," by dr. william h. hamill, sponsored by radiation laboratory, n.d. conference room, radiation research building. 
--colloquium, ''a home-based program for a pre­school aged behaviorally disturbed child with mother and father as therapists," by m.r. johnson, ph.d., n.d. sponsored by psychology dept., room 119, haggar hall. 
--colloquium, "real closures of commutative rings and algebraic varieties," by prof. manfred knebush, univ. of regensburg, germany, sponsored by math dept., room 226, computf~r center-math building. 
--meal, rice and tea meal, sponsored by world hunger coalition, knights of columbus bldg. 
--evensong vespers, log chapel. 
--basketball, harlem globetrotters, ace. 
--panel discussion, "an unequal contest?" with profs. animesh ghoshal, john lyon, james sterba and basil o'leary, moderator, sponsored by world hunger coalition, hayes-healy auditorium. 
--civil rights lecture, "bicentennial dangers and civil rights values" by prof. derrick a. bell, jr., harvard law school, sponsored by civil rights center,, cce. 
--recital, student piano recital -anne france, ~ponsored by music dept., little theater. 
--recital, student piano recital -denise taliaferre, sponsored by music dept., library aud. 
--mass, tr. trank quinl1van, celebrant, sponsored by world hunger coalition, sacred heart church. 

(%The Observer1 Sen. Har_ris _stops 
Night Editor: Bob Brink Ass't Night Editor: Paul 
Sd~·::~ppler 
layout Staff: Laura Beth Hart, Claire McCarthy Day Editor: Mary Mungovan Copy Reader: Barbara Lang­henry, Mike Villani Features: Tom O'Neil Sports: Ray O'Brien, Paul Stevenson Typists: Terri Harlan, Sue Shellenbarger Night Controller: Bob Stein­
• ~etz 
J 

\,Photographer: Tony Chifari 
campa1gn1ng 
WASHINGTON AP-Former Ok­lahoma Sen. Fred Harris has decided to withdraw from active campaigning for the Democratic presidential nomination, sources said yesterday. 
Harris will remain a declared candidate and will continue to seek the nomination at the Democratic National Comvention in New York in July, the sources said. 
But they said all of his active campaigning for votes in the re­maining Democratic primary elect­ions will cease. 
'""' 
... 
At Civil Rights series 




Bell to talk on racial remediation 

Harvard Law School Professor Derrick A. Bell, Jr. will be the featured speaker at the Fifth Annual Civil Rights Lecture series this week. He will speak on "Racial Remediation: A Re-analysis of Motivation and Benefit" tonight at 8 p.m. at the Center for Continuing Education Auditorium and Friday, Apri\9 at 2 p.m. at the same place. Thursday's lecture will be on "Bicentennial Dangers and Civil Rights Values" and Friday's on "Reformulating Racial Strategies for Survival and Accommodation." 
The lecture series is dedicated to ~ ·r. Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C. president of Notre Dame and former chairman of the Civil Rights Commission, who will introduce Bell. 
Bell is the fifth distinguished lecturer of the annual lecture !>cries. Past lecturers were former 
Carberry to lecture 
thrOUgh Germany b~rgh 
Branch of the NAACP and w1th the NAACP Legal Defense Dr. James J. Carberry, professor and Educational Fund. Here Bell of chemical engineering at the participated in several precedent University of Notre Dame, will making civil rights cases and was present a plenary lecture on "Ex­involved in the litigation of school perimental Determination of Reac­desegration cases th roughout the tion-Reactor Parameters" at the South. Sixth International Symposium on In 1966, Bell joined the depart­Chemical Reaction Engineering at ment of Health, Education and Heidelberg. Germany, this week. 

Welfare as deputy special assistant to the secretary for civil rights. He also served as director of the Western Center on Law and Pover­ty. 
In 1969 Bell was appointed as lecturer on law to the Harvard University Law School faculty and became a professor in 1971. 
Besides writing numerous arti­cles on civil rights and constitution­al law, he authored the widely adopted civil rights casebook, Race, Racism and American Law. 
HAPPINESS IS A JOB 
Our high quality re­sume can help you find that job. Send for our free resume form­-it might make you happy. 
Print, etc., P.O. Box 606 Bennington, Vt., 05201 
Please send me your resume form 
Name ............................ . 
Address ......................... . 
Clly/Siale/Zip ................... . 
Following the symposium, he will visit several European univer­
FRI. 7:45 ­


GOOD-BYE 
sities to lecture on recent results of 
9:45
research in surface catalysis he has 

1 BRUCE LEE
conducted with Dr. George C. Kuczynski, professor of metallurg­
SAT. & SUN. 1:45-3:45-5:45-7:45-9-145 ical engineering. Beginning April 
12. Carberry will lecture at the Rijksuniversiteit-Gent, Belgium; 


UNDERCOVER 
the Max Planck Institute, Stuttgart, Germany; the University of Erlan­
~ 
FRI., SAT., & SUN.-7:30-9:30 HERO Milan, Italy, and the University of Naples, Italy. 
gen, Germany; the Politecnico, 
IJ(!ile~ llf)use t=lix
A graduate of Notre Dame, Carberry received his doctorate in chemical engineering from Yale Un iversity. He was senior research engineer at the DuPont Experimen­

tal Station before joining the Notre •
•
Dame faculty in 1961. 
•
• 

O'Briain captures : 
•


chess tournament:
•
The sixth annual Observer Chess Tournament came to a close this weekend with Padraig O'Briain finishing in the top position with an undefeated record. 
A graduate mathematics stu­dent, O'Briaincompiled a record for three wins and a draw. Jay Polk, a law student, came in second with a 3-1 record. Senior Jerry Mondello finished third, followed by Jeff • Bowe, John Newcomer, John Mas­novi, and Tom Lucid. 
The Obsel"\\ee" is publ is/led /II'Onday through Friday and weekly during the sumner session, except during the exaiT'6 and vacation periods. The Obsenier is publiShed by the students of the Uni1. of Notre Darre and St. Mary's College. Subsa-iptions rray be purdlased for $18 (S1 0 per semester) fro-n The Obsenier, Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Sealnd Class postage paid, Notre Darre, IN 46556. 
Chief Justice Earl Warren, Sen. 
Philip Hart, Sargent Shriver, and 
Rev. Jesse L. Jackson. 
Bell is the leading black law professor in the United States. He will discuss the continuing struggle to eliminate the heritage of slavery and discrimination from the lives of blacks and other minority citizens in America. He will analyze ·the current status of civil rights and suggest those strategies, both legal and political, which offer the best prospect for removing current in­justices from our society. 
A native of Pittsburgh, Pa.. Bell earned an A.B. in political science at Duquesne University in 1952. He graduated from Pittsburgh Law School and was an associate editor of the Pittsburgh Law Review. Bell has worked with the U.S. Depart­ment of Justice in the Officer of Legal Counsel, Conscientious Ob­jector Section, and in the Civil Rights Division. 
He served one year as the executive secretary of the Pitts­

•
•
•
•
•
: 


•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
• 
MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM APRIL 19, 1976 -8:00 P.M. 
SPECIAL GUESTS TO BE ANNOUNCED 
Tickets, $5.00 In Advance, $6 00 At Door 
Outlets· Mom~ Civl(. N. D. Student Unton. Booq1e Records Just for the Rt:cord The R~ord Joml & The Su5pendrd Chord (Elkhart) 
C \IIIII'\ \I.'~ I'IIOIH CTIO'\~ 
PLEASE! NO SMOKING. OPEN FLAMES o, ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES. 


\ 
~ • .. ~ • .. • .. • ' 1 • • • • • • • 

• • , • , 'l • 
0 
.. ~ '\ ' ' • 0 0 ~ • 0 f ' 0 I 0 o I 


Thursday; April 8, 1976 the observer

In Pennsylvania primary 






Candidates preparing for possible showdown 
Jimmy Carter, Henry M. Jack­son and Morris K. Udall--the candidate who woke up a loser-­plunged without pause yesterday into the campaign for Pennsylvan­ia's presidnetial primary, a contest that could be their Democratic showdown 
There are other candidates wait­ing to test them later, and there is Sen. Hubert H. Humphrey, biding his time and looking for running room after the primary season is over. 
But it is evident now that the Pennsylvania balloting on April 27 will sort things out among the current crop of primary contenders. 
Carter won Tuesday's Wisconsin presidential primary with 37 per­cent of the vute, edging Udall. who held a premature victory celebra­tion election night. Early yester­day!, late-counted ballots turned things around. 
Carter had gone to bed in 
Milwaukee talking as though he 
had been defeated, although he 
never conceded. He got up to tell 
his supporters: "We're No. 1" and 
to wave a newspaper with a banner 
headline saying he had been .~pset. 
··And we won anyhow. the 
former Georgia governor said. 
For Udall. it was a night of 
disappointment. "Oh. how sweet 
O'Neil announces new photo editor 
Tom O'Neil, editor-in-chief, ha~ appointed TonyChifari to replace Chris Smith as photo editor of The Observer. Tony, a junior American Studies major, has been a staff photographer since last October. 
"I hope to give underclassmen 
more exposure than in previous 
years ... said Chifari. "Other than 
that· I'll ~~lst have to see how things 
develop. 
every event on campus. This will
Moore eIected DOME edltor ' h~l~ avoid the po~~!bility 
of con­
• •t

I00kS fOr more creatlVI y 
by Gregg B. Bangs Executive Editor 
Lisa Moore was elected editor-in­chief of the 1977 edition of the DOMt:. the Notre Dame yearbook. Moore. a junior from New Phila­delphia. Ohio was elected by a majority vote of this year's DOME editorial board. 



rnictlae~s 
hair st~LinQ
etc. 

FOR APPT. CALL: 272-7222 18381 EDISON RD. AT SO. BENDAVE. 
taining the ''journal of the past year's events" format that has been characterized by the last two yearbooks. 
Next year's book will be organ­ized by sections, unlike the last two editions which were in chronologi­cal order. "The chronological order has not worked. so we're going back to sections such as seniors. sports and student life," Moore said. 
She also stated that the student life area would be broken up into more areas. One reason for this break-up is to increase the number of people working on the book. "Right now, we only have four or five section leaders. With more sections, we can get more people involved in the book," she com­mented. 
Moore plans to work in conjunc­
tion  with  the  Observer  and  the  
Scholastic  in  areai:-.such  as  the  
sharing of photographs.  

She has worked on the yearbook for three years and has worked in the positions of student life editor and organizations editor. 

it it,'' the Arizona congressman had said when he was leading in the partial vote count and pronoun­ced the winner in the projection of ABC and NBC. It would have been his first primary victory, in a state he had made a major target with campaign money and time. But the sweetness didn't last. 
Stopped bandwagon 

Nonetheless, Udall said that he had stopped the Carter bandwagon with his 35 percent of the vote, just behind Carter. 
"It was practically a dead heat in Wisconsin," he told United Auto Workers Union officials in Detroit. 'lf Carter had his way, his people 

Student Union committee names five new officers 
by John Pandolfi and Barb Langhcnry Stafl Reporters 

Ken Ricci, student union director and a special committee of the Student Union has announced the names of five new officers, two tilling newly created positions. 
1he new ~erv1ce Lommlssloner is Genny Burke. As Service Com­missioner, Genny is in charge of Student Union events including summer storage. on-campus mail and the freshman register. Genny said, ''Most of the work for the Services Commission comes at the beginning and end of each sem­ester." Genny was previously the chairman of advertising and distri­bution for the Services Commis­sion. 
Marianne Morgan will be the new Student Union Comptroller. As comptroller, she must keep a record of each committee's finan­ces. She also maintains all financial control of the Student
• 

would have wiped me out. But there are still 22 primaries to go. 
This election is going to be won or lost in the big industrial states, and Carter's record is not great in them," he said. "The Carter landslide has been stopped.'' 
Jackson won a commanding, 104-vote share of the Democratic delegates awarded in Tuesday's New York primary, and he said he would have more votes from nom­inally uncommitted delegates. Udall supporters captured 70 nat­ional convention seats, uncommit­ted entries won 65 and Carter had 35. 
The New York system offered a test among delegates, listed with their candidate preferences. But 
Union. Marianne has been Assis­tant Comptroller for the Services Commission for the past two years. 
Chris McCabe was appointed llS the new ticket manager. His duties ('oncern running the ticket office. 
Aside from these offices, two new positions were created. Mary Charchut was appoimed as Admin­istrative Coordinat,,,. and Charlie Moran as Adminstartive Assistant. 
The Administrative Coordina­tor's office, which was dropped two 
years  ago, will  be  resumed  this  
year.  The  coordin ator  has  four  
basic  roles.  The  first  is  the  

publishing of a Student Union Information Booklet, which will be available during the first two weeks of next semester. 
The second role is to coordinate the activities of organizations such as the Student Life Council, the Hall Presidents' Council and the Student Union. 
A third role is to acquaint the Notre dame student body with the activities of the Student Union. As a final role, the coordinator must maintain a calender for planned activities which will list 
tl1ctmg dates for d1fterent events. 
The role of Administrative Assis­tant will be to take charge of all special projects concerning the Student Union. 
"Students are encouraged to help in the efforts of the Student Union by getting m touch with either Ken Ricci or Genny Burke. Your help will be greatly appreciat­ed," stated Ricci. 
Sunday is Family Day at The Boar's-Head! 
from Noon ti1110:00 p.m. on Sundays 
COMPLETE HAM or CHICKEN DINNER 

$3.95 


there was no direct test of the 
presidential contenders since the 
three major entries had varying 
numbers of delegate entries. 
Jackson said in an interview that 
the New York outcome means a 
tough, three-way contest in Penn­
sylvania, which will have 178 
Democratic convention votes. In 
addition, there is a presidential 
preference primary, matching the 
candidates themselves in pennsyl­
vania. 
President Ford won the Wiscon­sin Republican primary, easily outdistancing challenger Ronald Reagan -and sweeping the state's 45 Republican nominating dele-


Starring 
PAUL NEWMAN 
ROBERT REDFORD 
April10 & 11 7, 9:15, 11 :30 Admission $1 ENG. AUD. 

50th ANNIVERSARY SEASON!!! 
~w 
7:30 P.M. A. C. C. :\"',,
~~.\ 
Tickets Ticket Prices: .. on Sale •...,, ----------Sl.OO : Loww lr1111 t ·' 
Daily At the (End Court)-----·--$4.50 .-k ~ Loww lr1111 0 _.·;·:·_~~
7




s~~~~:{sF~C~~;~.-55~()f/(

AND STAFF $1.00 . . l 
OFF ALL TICKETS \,L---_ 
~~~~ 
.~~~~~ 

TONIGHT ~~r:EE~ ~ 
gates. Ford is entered in Pennsyl­
vania, which will have 103 Republi­
can votes, but Reagan is not 
running again until the May 1 
Texas primary, which now looms as 
his make or break test. 
In addition, 151 uncommitted 
Republican delegates, considered 
likely to wing up with Ford, were 
chosen in New York. reagan 
supporters ran for only 12 seats and 
won three. 
Ford said yesterday the Wiscon­
sin victory gave him a big lift. He 
also said it "fully justified my faith 
in Henry Kissinger," the embattl­
ed secretary of state who has been 
under Reagan's campaign attack. 
STUDENT UNION PRESENTS 



THE STING 



I 4 the observer Thursday, Aprils, 1976 r Bleier to arrive Monday 
Senior Fellow Committee announces plans 
by Frank Tennant Staff Reporter 
Rocky Bleier, newly elected Sen­ior Class Fellow, will visit the campus Monday, April 12, for a dinner with the senior class. Jim Ferry of the Senior Fellow Com­mittee announced the visit yester­day. 
Bleier will arrive by plane around noon and eat lunch at the Morris Inn with the Senior Class officers, the committee, and university offic­ials. At 2:00 p.m., he will visit Logan Center for a tour and spend the remainder of the afternoon visiting campus friends. 
The dinner will take place in the south dining hall at 5:30 p.m. The committee urges all interested seniors to attend. All north quad seniors wishing to attend should call 7308 and leave their name and meal number before 2:00 friday. Off-campus seniors must pay the regular price of $3. They can purchase their tickets at that time, Ferry explained. 
Bleier will speak in Washington Hall at 8:00 p.m., monday. The entire ND-SMC community is in­vited. John Reid. advisor to the senior class, said the talk will primarily be directed toward sen­iors. A reception at the Senior­Alumni club will follow the talk. 
Bleier will return to Pittsburgh Tuesday morning by plane. Ferry noted, "In the past the 

$500,000 given 
Ricci speaks to presidents; SU-HPC cooperation asked 
by Joe l.opina Staff Reporter 
Ken Ricci, Student Union direct­or, called for more understanding and cooperation between Student Union and the HPC. Ricci addres­sed the newly-elected Hall Pres­idents' Council Tuesday night in the basement of Zahm ,Hall. 
"In the past there has been a lack of communication between us but I intend to change that," he stated. Mary Charcet, newly-ap­pointed administrative co-ordinator of the Student Union defined her 


Li!w School receives gift 
A half-million dollar matching gift to the University of Notre Dame Law School by Chicago attorney Kenneth F. Montgomery was announced April 1 at a dinner of Notre Dame law alumni at the Chicago Bar Association. 
Notre Dame's Law Dean David 
T. Link said the gift, to be matched dollar-for-dollar by other contribu­tions, would permanently endow the Kiley Fellowship Fund begun in 1968 by Montgomery. 
The Kiley Fund, which offers tuition support and stipends to outstanding law students at Notre Dame, was named after Judge Roger J. Kiley, a 1923 Notre Dame law alumnus who became a mem­ber of the United States Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit, where he served until his death in 1974. A close friend of Montgom­ery's, Kiley was active on Chicago Bar Association committees and in civic groups such as the National Conference of Chri~ti<>n~ <>ntl lPws and the Catholic Interracial Council There are now seven Kiley Fellows in the Notre Dame Law School, the oldest legal education facility under Catholic auspices in the nation. 
University President Rev. Theo­dore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., stated that "the Montgomery gift repre­sents an important contribution to a new era for the Law School. Notre Dame's Law School has traditional­ly offered a strong academic pro­gram and has concentrated on training competent and compas­sionate attorneys. The success of this program is evidenced by the Senior Fellow was not accessible to the students. We want him to be able to meet the people who elected him.'' This was a reason for the innovation of the dinner. 
Bleier was a 1968 graduate in business administration and lived in Dillon. He played halfback and was a football team captain at Notre Dame. 
While at Notre Dame, Bleier was a leader in the program to supply volunteers for the Northern Indiana Children's Hospital near the cam­pus. Reid said, "Bleier helped initiate the Logan Center program volunteer their time as tutors, swimming instructors and coun­sellors for the retarded children." 

Bleier entered professional foot­ball and was the only National Football League player to serve in Vietnam. He was wounded in action but overcame the crippling leg injury to win a starting assign­ment with the world championship Pittsburgh Steelers. 
Reid is glad Bleier was chosen for being more than just a football player. "He lived around the corner from me in Dillon and I 
Bar Association statistics, our Law School has the highest percentage of graduates on the bench of any major American law school. 
"Despite its past accomplish­ments," Hesburgh continued, "o­ur Law School today must do even more. The Jaw profession general­ly and legal education in particular cry out for new ideas and strong leadership. It is important that a Jaw school with Notre Dame's background and philosophy take a more active national role in fulfill­ing these needs. 

where students today continue to remember him as a good person 
job as a "constant liason" between Student Union and all other student organizations. Some of her respon­sibilities as administrative co-ordi­nator include plotting a master calendar of events to avoid conflicts and fostering communication to help consolidate activities. Charcet also plans to put out a booklet to explain relations between student organizations. 
from the first day we met. I didn't find out he played football ·until later in the year," said Reid. 
By choosing Bleier , Reid be­lieves the students showed the same ideals put forth by the committee. They felt the esteem of the award had gone down in recent years. he explained. Lead by Bill Macauley. the committee's first action was to set guidelines for the award. 
Ferry said they wanted a man or woman whose influence extended outside his field. Bleier won because he war more than a football player. It made him a more attractive candidate," Ferry claim­ed. 

Reid cited increased student interest as proof of the award's growing esteem through the efforts of the committee. Sixty percent of the senior class voted in this election whereas only twelve per­cent voted last year. 
In order to further the tradition of the award, Reid said a plaque, with the former Senior Fellow listed , will be placed in the Senior Bar. As future fellows are elected their names will be added. Bleier will also receive a plaque. 
Bleier won in a landslide over the other candidates: John McKay, former Southern Cal football coach, Hunter Thompson. New Jorkjourn­alist and Geraldo Rivera, investiga­tive reporter. 

Fo r 2ign a r · o . 
) Ports & acc:essories for imported car:.· 
,....;-for all makes at lowest prices.
Ra1ional 
Pootr.butor *******272 _7187 ********* 
:For NO Students, Fac.ulty & StattJ*10 percent:discount with I0 & * ! purchase of $ 10 or more. * 
**•**********i~*********t 

"Concerning all-star football llii;...liiiiil;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiUiiiiiiiiiiiiiiil games planned for this spring, they've been cancelled"_ stated P.'-'-'-'-'-'-"-'-'-'-'-'-'-'-'-'-'-'-'-'-'-'-'-~· 

Elton Johnson, HPC chairman. 
The men's game was cancelled because the players would by uninsured by the school. Since the game would not be included in their insurance policy. The Wo-men's game was scratched because 
Saint Mary's College failed to elect an all-star squad. 
Because of the ineffectiveness of the athletic commission, the HPC abolished it and added the HPC sport committee, which will be 
composed of seven male and all five female hall presidents. They will determine the rules for inter-
hall sports. 

Also, a l?roposal to choose HPC representatives from the council members and former hall presi­dents was passed to provide conti­nuity and consistency on the coun­cil's viewpoints. 
THE 

l\nigiJts 

~ r "> ~ ·. l>'~ ~~ • 1'\;. 0 1) (h ~ ~"' ~"' l'" " .,"' Ill!V -1 ~~~-ec " "'. . ~ ce Italy ~ ~ " u '~~~kne ,~ 
1111! ~ 
~ Th B • u h ~1111! 
~ e oar s ' ead now as available opportunities for fulltime ~ summer help, reduced to parttime this fall to accomodate students. ~ 1111! Applications will be accepted between 2-4, Mon-Fri., for the Ill! ~ following positions: Waiters, Waitresses, Bartenders Cashiers ~ 1~ Kitchen Help, & Hostesses. [The Boar's Head is' an EquaJ ~ ~ Opportunity Employer) ~ 
1111! .. 
k'-'-'-'-'-'-'-'-'-'-'-'-'-'-'-'-'-'-'-'-'-'-'-... 
..,.IOIIXIC~IIOOCIOC:IOIIOII~~--IOII~C.DCI-•ICIC:IOI::IOOCIIOCIOI~I:IOQI 
The University of N tre· 0 p d/
o ame ress prou y announces the publication of 
THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 

A Portrait of Its History and Can1JJUS 
Thomas J. Schlereth 
Traces the growth and developrmnt of the Universit'' 
in a way that enables the reader to re-aeate and to 
understand Notre Darm as it appeared to successive 
generations. lndudes over four hundred mustrations. 
The Ideal Gift. A great addition 
to your ovvn library. 

Now available at the 





Food Day 1976: Purposes and Goals at Notre Daine 
by Barb Robinson 

On Thursday, April 8, the Notre Dame World Hunger Coalition will be joining the efforts of numerous groups across the country to com­memorate Food Day 1976. Begun last year primarily by individuals interested in nutrition, the event became a catalyst in the formation of a number of organizations concerned about this issue and hunger on a global scale. A Food Day office has been established in Washington, D.C. to support these efforts nationwide. 
The purpose of these activities is two-fold. American patterns of consumption have.. become domin­ated by the interests of large corportions, namely agribusineses, within our country. If this is to change at all, Americans must first become cognizant of the value of nutritional education and secondly, seek a national policy to regulate these developments in the future. 
Initially an agricultural nation in which individuals were nearly self­sufficient for their foodstuffs, our country has drastically changed its living patterns. Most Americans have exchanged rural living for an urban setting. Consequently, food production has become a massive industry, not unlike other profit­making entities. A mere fifty food­producing manufacturers control this market. Like their counter­
parts. th~y also seck to influence govcJnment officials and consum­ers through political lobbying and advertising techniques. It is the individual who suffers, paying higher prices and losing control to a powerful conglomerate having little or no concern for health matters. Within a global context, the dom­ination of American power on trade regulations, foreign assistance, and world-wide patterns of con­sumption is a fact which many governmental officials realize, but 
which  must  be  discerned  by  
citizens  themselves  if  such  an  
imbalance can ever be altered.  

Those of us promoting Food Day arc attmepting to bring to public attention the need for a national policy on hunger and justice­related issues. We have such policies (or ar least strong urgings by public officials) for other issues considered crucial to our nation's welfare. With the growth of corporate interests and lobbying efforts in Congress, our country needs a ~regulated food industry to insure the best interests of those being served. 
The U.S. government can, and should, be persuaded to regulate the corporate impact on food processing, and seek other controls over agribusinesses that will pro­mote our nation's health, not the profit-making ventures of a min­ority. It can also directly affect the hungry. both here and abroad, by 
changing eligibility requirements for food stamp recipients. and 

Food Day Schedule 
providing at least 1 per cent of our GNP for developmental assistance abroad. 
Clearly, Congress and Executive Branch must be pursuaded to confront this challenge. If change is to occur. it must be initiated by caring citizens, and brought to the attention of leaders who can in­fluence policies. 
Educating ourselves to the guidelines of nutrition and the need for a national policy is a prelimi.­inary step, however. The Notre Dame World Hunger Coalition will be sponsoring activities for Food Day on April 8, in conjunction with INPIRG. We have chosen to look at these issues within the global context of inequality. It is fruitless to seperate the existence of hunger from the presence of related con­ditons, i.e. inadequate medica~ services. Similarly, we cannot view our own existence without realizing that there are many affected by our actions, many who will suffer tremendously if we choose to ignore the lifewithin them.. 

the 








Global 


ND-SMC World H~o~nger Coalition:
C. e 
coalition for world .concern.
ltlzen 
Apr1l 8, 1976 

--11:00 a.m.-3:00p.m. The Notre Dame World Hunger Coalition will have a booth set up on the south quad as part of the food day bazaar being sponsored by INPIRG. This booth will have free literature and other materials explaining the food crisis; food day; other aspects of global injustice; and a list of things you can do to help alleviate this global suffering. 
--2:30 p.m.-4:30 p.m. In the library auditorium. there will be a seminar with a discussion follow­ing. The topic will be "Personal Experiences in Underdeveloped Countries." The speakers will include teachers and students who have witnessed global injustice and inequality on a first hand basis and are willing to share their exper­iences with the entire campus. 
--5:00p.m.-6:30 p.m. Knights of Columbus, Rice and Tea Meal, includes films and slides concern­ing world hunger. This meal is opt!n to all those on campus who 
would like to come. 
--A panel discussion will be held in the evening. beginning at 8:00 
p.m. in Hayes-Healy. The discus­sion will center on the more factual aspects of global injustice; where our world is heading; and how we as humanistic people can help to shape our own tomorrow. 
The discussion title is ''An Unequal Chance." Participants in­clude James Sterba, Prof. of Social Philosophy; John Lyon, Prof. of the General Program, and Animesh Ghoshal. Prof. of International Finance. The moderator will be Basil O'Leary director of the Pro­gram of Non-Violence. 
--A campus-wide Mass will be celebrated at 10:00 p.m. in Sacred Heart Chruch. the celebrant will be Fr. Frank Quinlivan, head of the Justice and Peace Commission here in South Bend. The mass will have Food Day as it main focus. What better a time to be concerned 
with  the  world's  hungry  than  
during  Lent,  and  only  a  week  
before Easter!  


lnPirg Plans Bazaar, Tea and Rice Dinner 
lnPirg at Notre Dame is planning dinner will be held at the Knights two major activities for Food Day of Columbus building at 5:00p.m. on Thursday April 8. Plans are Admission will be SO cents with all underway for a Food Bazaar on the proceeds going to hunger relief. South Quad from 11-3:00 p.m. lnPirg. along with Notre Dame's Various groups. e.g. health food World Hunger Coalition, is spon­stores, ethnic groups. nutritionists, soring this event to increase our the World Hunger Coalition, Real consciousness of the widespread Services. and more; are being starvation and malnutrition that contacted to set up booths to pass exists. out information, sell cultural and 
Both events arc being publicized health foods. and to answer ques­to the South Bend community astions. This event, although festive well as St. Mary's--Notre Dame. Inin nature, should also educate us conjunction with the Hunger Coali­about the nutritional, ethnic, and tion, lnPirg wants to make Food·
economic aspects of Food Day. Day, 8, a day
April 1976, toHopefully, the Food Bazaar will remember --a day that will sparkprovide a myriad of sights. tastes, action on the many problems thatand information to all participants. 

this area encompasses.
Later in the day, a tea and rice 

Hunger Coalition:Where It's Been, Where It's Going, What It's Doing 
but one aspect of the large spec-optional payroll deduction plan forby Kathy Carrigan 
trum of global problems. ND faculty and staff was initiated Background by Professor Peter Walshe. This The publication of its first news· plan raised $14,000 in its first year, paper gives the ND-SMC World 
Fr. Don McNeill served as and is expected to do even better Hunger Coalition: Students for initiator and advisor to the group in this year. Speakers of nation-wide World Concern a chance to look the beginning, preparing it to grow fame, such as Dick Gregory and back at its tenuous beginnings, · under total student control.· That Senator Clark came to campus to ·and to assess its _pro~ress. Our first group of thirty concerned talk about the national commitment 
organization was formed in October students and faculty members has to global inequality. 
1974. at the suggestion of Fr. grown in the past year and one-half The 1975-76 year started with the Hesburgh, with a goal of finding 
to an active membership of 152. first elected officers, who brought ways to focus the love and concern During the 1974-75 school year, 
dedicated, concerned, and enthu­within the ND-SMC community to they sponsored campus-wide rice­siastic leadership. A major project 
world problems. We are concerned 
and-tea meals, encouraging parti­of first semester was an offering of with gathering information. pro­cipants to skip their normal meal letters drive, organized by Barb posing solutions, and raising funds and join together to think and talk Robinson. Over 500 letters from 
to combat the global inequality and about world hunger. They organ­
the ND-SMC community reached injustice paralyzing third and ized the first Wednesday night Washington, D.C. as Dart of a fourth world countries. Hunger is fasts in the ND dining halls. An 
nation-wide effort to urge Congress to vote for increased fore!,gn assis­tance. Throughout the1_country, hundreds of thousands ·of letters were sent. The Wednesday even­
JJove.MbeP30 Ing fast in the dining halls, initiated by Doug Allen, had continued success. This semsester over 700 students have pledged, and should raise close to $8,000. Arrange­ments are being made at St. Mary's to start a similar program. The Coalition has also sponsored a variety of speakers in conjunction with Student Government and CILA. 
Dally collections are conducted in front of the dining halls at both Notre Dame and St. Mary's. AI Sondej has collected an estimated $30,000 since his collections began last year. Collecting at St. Mary's
Lovt. 
this year, Greg Gramelspacher has brought in $3,000. The coalition 


has also realized a surprise dona­tion this year from the community ofSteubenville_. Ohio. Jack Daurora 
raised 55,000 there for our cause. In November of 1975, the Coali­tion sent four representatives to the 
National University Conference for One of the more inspiring letters submitted in the offering of Hunger held in Austin Texas. This letters campaign for the Right to Feod resolution conducted by conference was an ego-builder and Bread for the World last fall. (contiDued on page 3) 

Editorial Page 


Food Day '76 
f_ Today is Food Day! Because of famine, the ensuing world food msis and the inception of a group called the Notre Dame World Hunger Coalition (and perhaps even the beautiful spring day), last year's Food Day was very meaningful and relevant for many of us here in this community at Notre Dame. Perhaps Food Day '76 doesn't seem as irrp>rtant. But yet there is still the injustice, the inequality and, yes, there is even stll a lot of hunger in our world. And we must emphasize that it is our world, with all its joys and sorrows and, indeed, with its responsibilities. In our Bicentennial year, we the people of the United States and, more specifically, we the people of the Notre Dame community, face a crucial challenge requiring critical decisions. For, you see, a world is only as well off as its inhabitants are and, unfortunately, the majority of our brothers and sisters around the globe are not very well off at all. The question then becomes: How much longer can this world of ours exist if all this inequality, suffering and death is to continue? We all know how easy it is to forget about the larger community to which we belong which is called humanity. Some­times the tempation of withdrawing from this global community into a world of our own "with all the comforts of home" is very great. But yet, many have told us that it is a cold, cruel world out there. We all think with much anxiety about going out into the "real" world after we must leave Notre Dame. H only there were some way in which we could make that larger world like that world of our own. H only we could be confident in entering into a world that was less cruel than today' s world. There is a way. In order to respond to the needs of human beings suffering from injustice and inequaltiy throughout the world, we must first learn to see them for what they are: our brothers and sisters. They are not just figures in a picture in a newspaper a magazine or on a telveision screen. They are people, like, us, who have many of the 
same thoughts, desires ano emotions as we do. More than a few of us have had the Qpportunity and good fortune to come to know some of these people as our friends. Except for some remarkable and perhaps even miraculous circumstances, these friends could have easily died in vain unbeknownst to us. The thought of this happening to the ones we now love as if they were members of our own family makes us shudder and vow that we will do all we can to stop any needless suffering throughout the world. Yet, our brothers and sisters, people like us, are dying of starvation and are suffering from gross injustices and inequalities! 
But this is not a fanatical appeal. Once we can really feel for these people, once we can concretize the situation in our minds, then we must sit down and decide what we can do. Thus, our intellect as well as our emotions must play a part in our response. 
It is our hope that people at Notre Dame and throughout our country can make global injustice and inequality a key issue in this Presidential election year. And it is also our hope that people here at Notre Dame, motivated by their own concerns, can go along way in providing dedication and concrete solutions to this challenge. And already it is happening. Many members of the student body, the faculty and the administration as well as others who are associated with our community are deeply involved. And the ranks continue to grow as more continue to respond wholehe-artedly as a result of events and experiences such as the Wednesday fasts and, hopefully, today, Food Day '76. 
As we close on this note of hope, the editors and st 'if would like to make it known that this ublication is dedicated to AI Sondej who, while with us at Notre Dame, has provided tremendous inspira­tion and dedication for which we and, most importantly, our brothers and sisters throughout the world are eternally grate­ful. Thank you All 
the editors 

A Hungry Atnerica 
============================Jlmcoyne
In the United States itself, there and then proposes, in his 1976 
are almost 40 million people in 
need of and eligible for food 
stamps. Less than half are 
receiving them. 
Not a single other wealthy, 
industrialized nation, east or west, 
tolerates the kind of slums, the 
persistent unemployment, the lack 
of medical coverage, or the hunger 
that still characterize the United 
States. 
Every year, United States citi­
zens use 3 million tons of fertilizer 
for non-food purposes--lawns, golf 

courses, and cemeteries. 
These facts, from a recent Bread for the World fact sheet, help exemplify one of our country's most ignored problems--hunger. When most of us think of hunger our minds are immediately foe­ussed on India, or Africa, or some other foreign country. People are 1'lrgely ignorant of the fact that 
•lUnger exists in the land of the free. It seems that those who are not afflicted by this stifling malady just do not care. I say this when the radio announcer tells me that 95 million tons of food are wasted annually in Tusconl, Arizona, and that the United States schools 
throw out 2.5 million cartoons of milk per day. I say this when the president of our country has to be pressUred ~-allowing .1 of 1 o/o of our nation's money to be shipped overseas to feed starving people; budget outline, to cut back welfare programs, medicaid, medicare, and social security, in major pro­portions, crippling worse those already afflicted. 
It ~eems that a nation celebrating its 200th birthday would be concerned about those at the party, and make sure they all had enough to eat, just like any gracious host. But not America. We spend millions of dollars installing colon­ial cobblestones on modern streets while small children with wasted bodies and empty bodies and empty bellies are dying from 
1 
hunger in Arizona, in South Caro­lina and in the slums of New York City. Lavish new hotels and apartments buildings are erected, and present ones renovated, while in a small town ·in Mississippi, a starving family struggles for exis­tance in a dark, windowless shack. There is a colossal celebration with hundreds of onlookers as the Liberty Bell' is transported across the street, while the loss of potentially productive American citizens to brain damage due to malnutrition goes virtually unno­ticed. 
Who are the hungry in the United States? 
1) the elderly who live on fixed incomes. Police flies across the country indicate a growing tenden­cy on the part of senior citizens to shoplift food. 
2)school and pre-school children 

whose family situation denies them 
a nutritionaltv adeguate diet. A 
nutrition study of six primary 
schools on Manhattan's Lower 
East Side discovered that of the 619 
children tested, almost 3/4 re­
ceived less than half their daily 
requirement of vitamins, and that 
one in six exhibited excessive 
leanness and prominent abdomens. 
3) urban slum dwellers whose numbers swell as rural farm work­ers continue to be driven off the land. 
4) the rural poor, who constitute one ofthe largest "underdeveloped countries" in the world. This reflects the continued policy on the part of the government to subsidize and provide favored treatment to large corporate farm enterprises and to squeeze out the poor farmer and farm worker. 
5) Migrant workers are among those hardest hit. They rank among the worst housed, the least protected by law, and the hungri­est. Said one farmer on a 1960 documentary, "Harvest of Shame: "We used to own our slaves, now we just rent 'em!" 
6) Native Americans, who, ac­cording to federal statistics, suffer the most malnutrition, the most illness, and the highest, infanl­
(continued on last page) 

We'd like to thank AI Sondej for the time and effort he has put into collecting at the dining halls for the past two years. Al's last collection will be on Tues., April 6. Members of ND-SMC World Hunger Coalition: Coalition for World Concern will continue the collections for the rest of this semester and next year. (Photos by Chris Smith) 

A World of 
Linrlted Resources 
terry barrett 

Today four billion people live on also-limited recharge rates of 
this planet. This figure will reach renewable resources. The hydro­
six and one-half billion by the year logical and biogeochemical cycles 
2000. 20% of the world's popula-operate on a limited rate of return. 
tion uses 80% of the world's These cycles provide essential re­
resources. The demand for re-sources such as water, nitrogen, 
sources increases every day. The oxygen and carbon. 
supply of these resources de-The supply of resources is both 
creases. If the human race is to limited and necessary for human 
have a future it must find answers , existence. According to the 
to these problem today. The major National Academy of Science, if the 
problem deals with the distribution world's resources were being used 
of resources. The resources I speak only ,to fulftll .human n~eds, the 
of are finite and therefore cannot earth s theoretical carrymg capa­
be used for only the benefit of a city would be around 33 billion 
minority of the people if the entire people. H?wever only one billion 
human race is to continue. If we people ca'l be supported at one 
agree with the moral belief that all time at the ~~~sent United States' 
people to have a right to live, we sta~dard of hvmg. _ . 
must actively seek a solution to the Ltfe has been a m~Jor c~mcern of 
world's problem of unequal distri-man th~oug~out hts extstence. 
bution of resources. Where ts thts concern when the 
The natural resources that the poor majority live twenty years less 
world possesses today must pro-and h~ve an _infant mortality r~te 
vide for life tomorrow. The five times htgher than the rtch 
demand for these resources is maj<'rity? A basic reason for this 
increasing due to increasing per inequality is the dis!ri.bution of 
capita consumption of the rich resour~es ..Of t~e 60 mtlhon p~ople 
minority and the increasing popula-tl:!.at ~til dte thts year,. 20 mtlhon 
tion of the poor majority. By this I will dte because they wtll n?t have 
mean that not only are the rich enough to eat. Along. wtth the 
minority consuming the majority of deaths . due to starva~t~? many 
the resources, they are also de-more will suffer malnu!rtho!ll su~­
manding more resources. cent to permanently tmpatr thetr 
The demand grows on the other resistance to disease, mental 
end of the spectrum as well. In growth and ability to help ~hem­
poor countries the governments are selve~. I~ a fundamental behef of 
not providing security for their m~nkmd ts that we are all equally 
aged. In order to "insure"their old chtldre!l of Go~ and we all have an 
age the people of these countries equal ~tght to hfe, ~hen we must act 
have children. When the parents accordmgly. By thts I mean that we 
reach an age where they can no must act in. su.ch a way as to help 
longer provide for themselves they the poor maJo~tty help then;tselves. 
rely on their family for their needs. Th~o.ugh soctal, economt.c and 
Due to the high death rate in these P.ohttcal ch~nnels we can .•mprove 
countries it becomes necessary to •lle educatt.o~al, economtc . and 
have many children in order that health condtttons of the p~r. there will be enough around to . To solve ~he problem of mequal­support their parents in their tty .~n an mterdependent planet, parents in their old age. This need t~e ~~c~ must conserv~ and share for support by descendents in-the hrmted resources wtth the poor. creases the population, according Those resources that supply our increases the need for resources. wants could be used to supply The growing population demands thetr needs. Through a better more and more of the world's understanding of the world as it is resources. today we can prepare for the 
Although the demand for the children of tomorrow. world's resources increases, the supply decreases. A limited supply "It-is my hope that if we develop of non-renewable resource supplys a new world view, really under­the world's energy and minerals. stand our current situation on this Oil, for insta~ce, is a major source troubled planet, we will begin to of energy, yet the supply of oil is create a better world as America's decreasing and coming dangerous­200th birthday and the earth's 
ly close to being exhausted. Along second millenium approa<:h." with a limited supply of these --Reverend Theodore H. Hesburgh, eon-renewable resources, there are esc. 


r 


The daily collection at the Notre Dame and St. Mary's dining halls is being continued this semester by AI Sondej at Notre Dame, and Greg Gramelspacher at St. Mary's. The money collected is being sent to five international relief and development agencies. The agencies are: Catholic Relief Services, CARE, UNICEF, OXFAM, and Church World Services. These agencies were selected because of their low administrative costs and their proven efficiency in self-help development projects. While trying to provide for the immediate needs of the poor in emergency situations, these agencies concentrate their resources toward long-term development projects. These projects consist of integrated programs dealing with all aspects of development including food and nutrition , agriculture, family planning, health, and education. 
Since the collection began in September, over $13,000 has been <:ontributed by the Notre Dame-St. Mary's Community. 
Food Day Summary 
II :00 am-3 pm--Booth on south quad/Food day bazaar 
2:30pm-4:30pm--Seminar discussion entitled, "Personal Experiences in Underdevolped Countries" in library auditorium. 
5:00 pm--6:30 pm--Rice and tea meal open to the campus at Knights of 
Columbus building.  
8:00pm-­ Discussion, "An Unequal Chance" in the Hayes Healy Building.  
10:00 pm-­ Campus-wide Mass in Sacred Heart Church  


Food Day and Food Policy 
by Doug Allen 

For most of us, food policy is something dished-out from on high: by distant government, impervious grocery chains, and fabled multi-national corporations. Helping set food policy-the rules of the game that regulate the supply, distribution, quality and price of food in other cities and towns, in response to our own needs, can teach us what years of school probably failed to teach: that policy is set by people; that it is written to serve somebody's in­terest; and that it might as well serve ours for a chance. Food Day, to be held on April 8th, is a day for participation, and through it, win­ning back control. 
On April 17, 1975, the first Food Day was celebrated nationwide with teach-ins, workshops, com­munity gardens, fasts and other consciousness-raising efforts. Last year the Notre Dame World Hun­ger Coalition sponsored a rice and tea meal, Mass , and speakers on the campus level. and helped organize many community action and consciousness-raising projects in the South Bend community. 
We expect Food Day '76 to be observed throughout the nation in a manner similar to last year and the Notre Dame World Hunger Coali-. tion: Coalition for World Concern, has planned a number of cons· cious-raising events for April 8th. 





"No Strings Attached'' 
EDITOR'S NOTE: The following article by Fr. Theodore Hesburgh, President of the University of Notre Dame, was published in the New York Times on Feb. 4. 
Fr. Hesburgh Is chairman of the board of directors of the Overseas Development Council in Wash­Ington. 
SOUTH BEND* Incl.--Ambassador 
from the United Nations gives an 
opportunity to re-examine a basic 
issue: Should the United States 
determine its foreign policies on 
the basis of whether they are right 
and just, rather than merely polit­
ically expe(,iient? 
The Administration's decision-­
which apparently originated with 
Ambassador Moynihan--to use all 
United States aid, including devel­
opment assistance, to punish or 
reward poor countries that vote 
against or support us in the United 
Nations seems to have been trig­
gered by the United Nations vote 
linking Zionism with racism, a silly 
and stupid resolution that deserves 
little more than to be condemned 
and summarily ignored. 
In any event, the new policy is a major setback for United States foreign relations. Indeed, it is both immoral and counterproductive: Immoral because it subordinates the survival and well-being of millions of suffering human beings to winning votes on transistory political issues, counterproductive because it may well achieve the opposite effect. 
Simply put, development aid cannot be used both to buy another country's support and to finance its economic and social development. To buy support, aid would have to be turned on and off as reward or punishment. 
But development requires a reli­
able flow of aid over a period of years to support long-term changes. Once aid is cut off, techniques are brought home, re­search work of many years is teminated, construction projects are closed down, and university-to­university programs must be sev­ered. All momentum is lost, and even if the aid is later renewed, the effort must begin again almost from scratch. Those who argue that we have a right to demand support for our objectives in return for economic assistance miss the whole point of development aid. It is not some­thing we do for other governments. Rather, it is, or ought to be, an investment we and they make together to solve certain human problems that our children and those in poor countries will other­wise inherit. It is a small investment that an appropriate regard for posterity and the well-being of humanity demands that we make. If the administration wants a political slush fund, our current programs of security assistance provide just such a tool. For my part, I will have no further interest in supporting bilateral develop­ment aid if it is to be used for political manipulation rather than for the improvement of the human condition in the poorest countries on earth. Ironically, the new policy is not simply immoral: It won't work. Anyone who has lived or traveled extensively in the developing world knows how really unlikely it is in this moment of rising nationalism that aid can be used to achieve short-run political ends. Indeed, the public unveiling of this policy has made it good politics for a developing-country leader to op­pose any United States position in international forums to prove his 
country's independence from "U. 
S. Nco-imperialism.'' 
How will we apply this new policy? Will we punish countries like Iran, Brazil, Egypt, Pakistan, or Nigeria--all of whom voted for the Zionism resolution? The news from Washington implies the oppo­site. Their raw materials (espec­ially oil) and political influence arc too important to us. 
Rather, it will be the Guyanas and Tanzanias of the world that suffer our wrath, because they can't fight back. Our country will be the neighborhood bully, picking only on those small kids who can't defend themselves. What a tragic Bicentennial stance for a country thar began as a small powerless nation daring to declare itself independent from the abuse of power! 
This is not the kind of foreign policy I want our country to pursue. 
Not, I trust, do our people endorse such a bankrupt and unworthy policy. Perhaps our only hope now rests with Congress. 
In recent years Congress has more and more strongly favored humanitarian and developmental uses for our foreign aid, resisting the traditional executive-branch propensity to use aid for political purposes. Last year, Congress even legislated limitations and specifi­cations for allocation our foreign assistance among countries by reserving the greater proportion of aid for countries and peoples most in need. The new State Depart­ment policy violates that standard. 
In this Bicentennial year our citizens of conscience throughout the country should reaffirm our committment to the universal, in­alienable rights to life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness--and make it good politics for Congress and the executive branch to repre­sent these great American ideals. 
Hunger Coalition: 
Past, Present, Future 
(continued from front page) inspiration for our coalition mem­bers as they realized Notre Dame's position as the oldest and most advanced University global group in the U.S. We are one of two schools with curriculums dealing in global problems (Yale is the other). Current activities The Education division, under the direction of Tim Beaty and Terry Barrett, have launched an important project this semester. They\orgamze education workshops and have trained about thirty coalition members to speak on global issues at grade schools, high schools, churches and businesses. Chris Brinegar is their liason with the schools. Forty-five students in Basil O'Leary's class in Food Population, and Energy will also have speaking engagements as a part of their coursework. Work­shops are conducted by Barb Robinson, AI Sondej, and Kitty Warner under the direction of Professor Basil O'Leary. They 
STAFF BOX 
Editors: 
Mary Hesburgh Mike Bowler 
Staff: 
Sue Augustus, Kathy Carrigan, ) irn Coyne, Tim Hiniker, ) anet Longfellow Scott Uhler 
Special thanks to: Tom O'Neil Martha Fanning Chris Smith 

consist of movies, handouts, and 
personal accounts of experiences in 
the Third World. Workshops are 
open to all coalition members and 
others interested. Anyone inter­
ested in attending should call Kitty 
Warner at 1328. 
The coalition would like to join 
together once a month to shape 
ideas and share concerns in a 
Vegetarian meal. The first meal 
was held March Sth, and organized 
by Rayne Carroll-Quinn and John 
Kenwood. It was great to gather 
people together who work separ­
ately on very diversified projects, 
to enjoy such delicacies as quiche­
lorraine, wheat-berry casserole and 
carob brownies. 
Jill Pascuzzo. Coalition secre­tary, needs help with a major project. She is compiling fact sheets and brochures describing our organization, in hopes that this information might help other simi­lar groups to form. Ginny Faust is investigatmg the posstblhty of a vegetarian line at the dining hall, and working with dieticians on recipies for bulk quantity vegetar­ian food on the regular lines. She also communicates on the national level with those knowledgeable in the field of a vegetarian approach to over-consumption of food. Kitty Warner and Jill Pascuzzo have received the support of many coalition members with the Action Reservoir. Whenever there is a sudden need for help with any coalition project, they have a reservoir of fifty volunteers of various talents to help them. Mary Hesburgh and Mike Bowler are editors-in-chief of our newspaper, with a staff of six. They hope to publish one newspaper each sem­
ester, at Thanksgiving and at Food Day. The biggest long-range project at hand is the preperation of a booklet 
to be distributed at pre-registra­
tion. Coordinated by Doug Allen 
and Mike Bowler, this booklet will 
be titled "Man In the Ecosphere." 
It will contain a compendium of 
course listings and course descrip­
tions of all Notre Dame and St. 
Mary's courses that confront global 
issues. This is to facilitate the 
choosing of electives in one clump 
or area of concentration. They are 
investigating the possiblity that a 
student would be able to earn a 
Global Studies Certification, or a 
minor in Global Studies in the years 
to come. 
St. Mary's has become increas­ingly involved in the coalition this year. Their thirty-six members, with SMC commission-er Barb Aste are working on such projects as dining hall contributions for a Wednesday night fast, and ini­tiating an optional payroll plan for SMC faculty and staff. To mark Food Day, on April 8th the dining hall has agreed to contribute a donation to hunger for each student who fasts. This fast is being coordinated by Mary Kay Schlos­ser, Mary Brassel, Mary Grogan and Kathy Carrigan. 
The ND-SMC World Hunger Coalition:Students for World Con­cern owes its success to many people. Doug Allen and Barb Robinson, co-coordinators, work a combine total of sixty hours per week. 
..

Publicity is a big part of any organization, and expecially impor­tant in a group as diversified as our coalition. This important job is done by Ceyl Prinster, Ted Slaugh­ter, Julie Breed, and Mary Gfoaan. 
Much grateful thanks also aoes to Tom Reid, advisor, and BasU O'Leary, Faculty advisor, who bring clear minds and much wis­dom to solve each day's impossible problems. 
.. 

•
• 

.... 


World Hunger: Current Legislation 
The Senate Agricultural Committee Because of the relation between by Sue Augustus 
has reported a food stamp reform hunger and unemployment we bill to the floor of the Senate which should be following the progress of The ND-SMC World Hunger would cut benefits to low working the Hawkins-Humphrey full em­Coaliton wants to keep you inform­families and recently unemployed ployment bill. The bill requires the ed on the latest developments in while doing nothing to help the government to generate employ­Congress concerning hunger-relat­poorest take advantage of the ment for all U.S. citizens seekinged legislation. This is especially program. Write your senators and jobs, through public works and important in our minds. Here then congressman urging them to sup­other programs. Under this bill the are several issues currently being port amendments which (1) elimin­P1 esident is supposed to reduce debated which can be influenced by ate the purchase requirement so unemployment below 3 per cent writing key legislators. 
that more of the poor could within 4 years. Write your senators 
The debate about what to do with participate and (2) raise the income and representative asking them to the food stamp program is a very eligibility guidleines to assure as­vote for the bill when it comes to important and controversial issue. sistance to all who need it. 
the floor for a vote. Despite the numerous letters 


Facts and Information 
from people all over the country the Right to Food resolution has not reached the floor as it is still tied up in various committees. Contact Rep. Charles Diggs (Chairman subcommittee on International Re­sources, Food and Energy) and Senator Hubert Humphrey (Chair­man, Senate subcommittee on For­eign Agricultural Policy) urging hearings on the resolution (H. Con. Res.393, S.Con Res. 66). For senators the address is U.S. Senate Office Building. D.C. 20510 and Representatives can be written to at the House of Representatives, Washington D.C. 20515. 
For those of you concerned about hunger and poverty and in in­fluencing legislation in these areas you may want to join Bread for the World which puts out a monthly legislative report (Bread for the World, 235 E. 49th Street, New York, New York 10017, annual membership is $10.) 
Bread for the World, a Christian citizen's movement on hunger and poverty which enlists ordinary citi­zens to contact their members of Congress and other government leadrs regarding U.S. policy mat­ters that vitally affect hungry people, now offers a $5 student membership and a $25 campus group plan. The latter will place up to five students on a special mailing lists allowing each to receive all BFW communications (newslet­ters, quickgrarns, phone calls and special updates) regardless of their congressional distict affiliation. (Regular members receive com­munications gearred to one CD, their own.) This enables the five­person nucleus to inform other students when support is needed from their particular states or congressional disticts. Students can then organize along CD lines at low cost. 

Hungry America 

(continued from Editorial page) 
mortality rate and the lowest life 
espectancy of any group in the u.s. 
In the midst of the ignorance and 
seemingly nonchalant attitudes 
there are attempts being made to 
help alleviate the misery of our 
nation's hungry. Two such pro­
grams are the school breakfast 
program and the Meals on Wheels 
program. Under the breakfast 
program, each state is required by 
law to start a school breakfast 
program in every school that 
applies and give a free breakfast to 
every child whose family income is 
under the poverty line, and supply 
schools in low income areas with 
equipment, storage and transporta­
tion costs. The Meals on Wheels 
program operates in New York 
City, one of more than 200 privately 
and publically sponsored programs 
serving hot lunches to 30,000 
elderly people daily. 
Although these programs are 
helping the hungry, much more 
needs to be done. One of the 
biggest pr" 'blems today is making 
people aw< :e of the situation, and 
getting th.. n interested enough to 
help. In th ! future, you need not 
look to India or Africa to see 
starving pe•>ple but perhaps only 
right next L 10r. 

.. 
GLOBAL POVERTY FACTS AND FIGURES 
In developing regions of the world, 38% to 44 % of the population are under 15 years of age. In North America, 25o/o of the poulation are under 15 years of age. 
More than 85% of the rural population in developing countries have no access to safe water sources. 
Diseases such as diarrhea, cholera, typhoid, paratyphoid fever and amoebic dysentary are the main causes of sickness and death in the developing countries. Safe water sources can significantly reduce the incidence of these diseases. 
Over SO% of deaths in some developing countries are among children under age five. 
Many food taboos result in nutritional deprivation. For instance, in some countries women are not allowed to eat eggs or fish. 
Severe malnutrition in early childhood (age 1-5) can lead to such irreversible physical impairment as stunted growth, blindness and permanent brain damage, with resultant learning disabili­ties. 
In 2/3 of the world, 90% of rural women and 60 % of urban women are illiterate. 
In developing countries, many people use 80 % of their income just to buy food. How are they expected to manage with a 20% or more increase in prices? 
In 1974, India and Bangladesh were short 10 million tons of grain. Compare this with the fact that in the U.S.* 146 million tons of cereals were fed to animals. 
Fertilizer shortages are leading to export constraints in developed countries which increaes the price on the world market. FAO estimates a shortage of 2 million tons in 100 developing countries. In the U.S. we use 2 million tons a year on lawns, cemeteries and golf courses alone. 
177 million Indian cows are valuable resources. They ... 
a. 
Feed on forage and waste vegetation. 

b. 
Supply a large quantity of milk. 

c. 
Provide "tractor" power for farmers--especially now that fuel in India has quadrupled in price. 

d. 
Produce 8000 million tons of dung used for plaster in home building and as the main form of cooking fuel. 

e. 
Supply large amounts of badly needed fertilizer. 


Over 87% of the grain used in this country are fed to our meat producing animals. Since 1950, the average U.S. citizen has doubled his/her consumption of beef. 
200 million bushels of protein rich grains used to brew beer and distilled spirits in the U.S. 
The difference between average life expectancies in the developed countries and in developing countries is 20 years. 
Cost of food grain imports to developing countries this year is expected to top 8 billion, four times the total of just 3 years ago. 
Nations of the world spend $240 billion a year on armaments. 
One million tons of fertilizer are used on U.S. lawns and flower gardens a year. One pound of fertilizer can produce an additional 5-10 pounds of grain in a developing country. 
Poor nations must pay to import fuel for essential uses--irrigation pumps, farm-to-market transport, heating and cooking. Cost of oil has risen from 3 to 12 billion dollars per year, since 1972. 
The U.S., with 6% ofthe world's population, consumes at least 35% of world's resources. 
40% of all Americans are overweight as determined by medical standards. 
There are basically 5 kinds of meat and poultry compared with SO kinds of commonly eaten vegetables, 24 peas and beans, 20 fruits, 12 nuts and 9 grains. Vegetarian cookery is different, exciting, nutritious and tasty. Americans consume twice as much protein as they can use. The rest is used as energy or exceted, since our bodies cannot store protein. 
Harris survey found 75 % of the Americans polled are willing to go without meat 1 day a week in order to send food abroad to help nations with food shortages. 
Rich countries transfer 3 million metric tons of cereal protein to poor countries each year, but recieve 4 million metric tons of protein from poor countries in the form of oil seeds, oil seed products and fish meal. 
3V2 acres of land are needed to produce a meat and milk centered diet for 1 person. liS acre of land is needed to produce a diet based on plant protein for 1 person. 
An anthropologist's study of Tuscon, Arizona's municipal garbage estimates residents throw away $500,000 a year in steak alone. 
UNICEF INFORMATION CAPSULES 
UNICEF, the United Nations Children's Fund, is a non-political, humanitarian organization that provides aid for hundreds of millions of children in Asia, Africa and Latin Amrica, regardless of their race, sex or religion or the politics of their parents. 
The lives of 60% of all children in developing countries are seriously threatened by malnutrition and curtailment of vital services caused by current economic conditions. As advocate for the world's children, UNICEF seeks to reverse these trends by assisting developing nations' programs to improve health, nutrition, education and social well-being of their children. 
Every dollar contributed to UNICEF for children's welfare is more than matched in goods, services and manpower by the developing countries that receive assistance. 
To help curb the rapidly increasing migration of poor families from rural areas to the cities' slums and shanty towns, UNICEF last year trained over 13,600 village leaders in 30 countries to encourage self-help projects for the improvement of local water supply, sanitation and health services. 
In its efforts to attack the basic causes of child malnutrition in developing countries, UNICEF advocates breast-feeding of infants and development of simple nutrition services based on the use of locally grown nutritious foods. 
UNICEF assists developing countries in meeting the essential needs of their children by helping establish packages of basic social services at the village level. These services for children and mothers include programs in interrelated fields of food and nutrition, clean water, health measures, family planning and basic education. 
The entire amount that UNICEF received in 1974 to help the desperately needy children ofthe world--about $115 million--was less than the world spent on armaments in five hours. 
UNICEF* the United Nations Children's Fund--is making special efforts to help child welfare in the world's poorest countries-­those with a yearly income, per person, of $80 or less. 
In many developing countries, 25 or 30 percent of the children die before their fifth birthday. In some areas, the mortality rate is as high as SO to 70 percent with lack of proper food the single biggest cause. UNICEF is helping countries provide food supplements, vaccines, antibiotics and other needed medicines to lessen this tragic toll. More than one-third of the world's children receive no education, and many of those wo do are unable to complete primary school. UNICEF--the United Nations Children's Fund--is helping more children get to school in Arica, Asia and Latin America. 
UNICEF--the United Nations Children's Fund--is currently aiding projects in over 100 countires, with a child population of over 850 million. Increasingly it concerns itself with specially vulnerable or disadvantaged groups--the very young, girls, children in slums, shantytowns and deprived rural areas. 
In Southeast Asia alone, 100,000 children go blind each year as a result of lack of Vitamin A. The price of a small bag of potato chips or candy bar--donated to UNICEF--can provide the Vitamin A capsules need to protect three children from blindness for an entire year. 
In 1974, UNICEF stipends helped to train over 86,000 child health and nutrition workers throughout the world. 
Only one-third of the world's babies are delivered in the presence of a trained attendant or midwife. UNICEF helps to train midwives and provide them with equipment, so that this proportion can be increased. 
Many of the contagious diseases so often fatal to undernourished infants in developing countries--diseases like cholera, typhoid, dysentery and worms--are caused or carried by contaminated water. UNICEF--the United Nations Children's Fund--provides drilling rigs, tube wells and other equipment to drill safe water wells. 

-------------,
---~~-------------~ --~~­
Thursday, April 8, 1976 the observer 
5 




Sweeney's is closing 
For years it had been a gathering place for returning alumni and Notre Dame students 

Swccnev's Shamrock has celebrated its last St. Patrick's Day. The famous Irish Har, rich with its Notre Dame history, will be closing sometime in the next few months, according to its owner, Mary Sweeney Looney, because of South Bend's Urban Renewal policies. 
The lease expires on August I, and Sweeney's should be closed sometime before then. The threat of Sweeney's possible closure has been around for the past eight years, she explained. The city of South Bend building inspectors, after surveying the building. have determined that repairs would be necessary or else the building would have to be condemned. The owner of the building. who lives in Florida. is uninterested in putting in $10,00 to $15,000 to make the necessary repairs. Therefore. the building will be torn down. lt is expected that a parking lot will replace the building. 
Sweeney's however, has enjoyed an important place in Notre Dame's history. 
For decades, it has been a meeting place for NO Alumni and students. Mary Sweeney Looney recalls that often young men would come in and tell her that their fathers had told them to stop at Sweeney's
whenever they were in town. "There are no other bars with our tradition," she explained, "People come in here from all over the country and keep coming back. It's the sort of place you come back to." 
It has been claimed that Sweeney's was 
the originator of green beer on St. Patrick's 
Day. and the first place in the city to serve -------------------------------------------------------1 
Thomas O'Neil  
and Mary Sweeney to purchase the other  
half of the business from Mcinerny's  
widow, and to rename the place Sweeney's  
Shamrock. Sweeney himself died in 1958.  
His wife married Charles Looney in 1961.  
Mary recalled the war years when  
servicemen made up a large number of  
Sweeney's customers. Anyone in uniform  
was eligible to buy liquor, she explained,  
and whenever a serviceman left his name  
and address with her, she would send them  
cigarettes and candy each Christmas.  
"It was during the War that we first had  
an organist play regularly here," Mary  
recalled. "Roy Gravcel was the original  
organist, and he was responsible for  
installing the complex sound system we  
used." Graveel. however, was blind, she  
noted, and eventually committed suicide a  
few years after his beginning at Swee­ 
ney's."  
South Bend's City Hall had been next  
door at one time. Mary recalls the times  
she would call the policeman from the  ed with pictures of past NO football stars.  today. They can be identified by  the  
Police Station in the City Hall's basement  The Four Horsemen presented Mary  missing apostrophe in the name." Today  
to help her tap a keg or assist in other  Sweeney Looney with an autographed  the shirts are sold for $6.50.  
matters. "We were kiddingly refered to as  photo of themselves which is displayed on  Sweeney's in general, hovever,  has  
the Democratic Headquarters," she ex- the wall, and a large blow-up picture of the  suffered a decline in popularity over  the  

---------------------------------------------------~ 
It's beginnings go back to the period shortly after Prohibition, and a few years after Rockne's death ... It's original name was ItMcinerny and Sweeney's"... 
beer in pitchers. It's beginnings go back to the period shortly after prohibition, and a few years after f{ockne's death. It was founded by Mary's first husband, Paul Sweeney, and a friend he worked with on the South Bend News-Times, Bob Me­lnerny, who each put $500 towards its founding. It's original name was "Me­lnerny and Sweeney's," and about its possible failure as a successful business enterprise, Mcinerny once commented, "If we can't sell it, we can always drink it." 
But it's eventual popularity is history now, although Mcinerny's death a few years after the bar's opening, caused Paul plaincd, "since so many of our customers 
were politicians and policemen." 
The old South Shore used to empty 
nearby also, and in the days when Notre 
Dame visitors were forced to find lodgings 
further into South Bend area, Sweeney's 
became a meeting place for Notre Dame 
Alumni and fans throughout the city. 
"Our most crowded times in the past have been on home football weekends when the Alumni gather here to meet old acquaintences, and on St. Patrick's Day," Mary explained, herself being a Notre Dame football fan who has missed only two home 
games in the past thirty-five years. 
The walls inside Sweeney's are decorat­
grinning Rockne hangs on the wall behind 
the bar. 

Concerning other decorations in the bar, Mary related the story of how the enormous drawing of a Leprechaun was stolen from the premises while a crowd of Marquette fans tilled the bar during the NCAA play-offs a few years ago. The incident took place shortly before St. Patrick's Day, and the SB Tribune ran a story on how Sweeney's famous Lepre­chaun will not be spending St. Paddy's Day at home in Sweeney's. After a great deal of searching, the Leprechaun was located in a bar in Milwaukee and was eventually returned to Sweeney's. 
St. Patrick's Days have been an impor­tant and enduring tradition at Sweeney's. The number of people who would attempt 
to crowd the inside eventually necessitated the use of a pass to be admitted. The passes were usually uncommonly designed by Mary herself and kept the number of patrons at the capacity level. 
She recalled an incident, however, of when a number of students scaled a tree in the back of the building and managed to 
~ lind a way in without a pass. About Notre Damer students, she men­tioned a group of students who, in 1965, 
had frequented Sweeney's so often that they neglected their studies and failed to graduate on time. After the conclusion of., the additional semester, a mock graduation ceremony was conducted in the bar, complete with Sweeney's diplomas. "One of those students still has his Sweeney's diploma mounted on his wall at home, and can't remember where he put his Notre Dame one," she commented. · Sweeney's general popularity, however, is often said to be illustrated by the famous Sweeney's T-shirt. The original idea of having them made up, she explained, belonged to a Notre Dame student, Mark Weidner, back in 1964. The shirts are similar to jerseys in their durability and are made of 100 percent cotton. "We've sold thousands of them to people all over the world," she explained. "The original12 shirts are collector's items 
years despite the continued popularity of it's shirts. Multiple factors have been responsible for the decline, the most 
notable  being  the  lack  of  advertising  
outside  the  bar and  the lack  of upkeep  
within.  Urban redevelopment has threat­ 

ened to close the bar every year for the last 8 years, and Mary saw no need to invest more money in its existence in view of its possible, and indeed most probable. closing. 
There has been a marked decline in the numbers of Sweeney's patrons since 1968. The other factors contributing to this are its distance from campus and the nearness of its recently-sprung competition--such pia­ces as the Senior Bar, Nickie's, etc .. Lastly. Mary Sweeney Looney has confess­ed her wish to retire. 
"There is a hope I have that Sweeney's will not be closed forever." she noted. "I have placed the ownership of Sweeney's up for sale at a very reasonable price in hope that someone might buy the name and all the property inside the bar and move everything someplace else. I would like to see some students take it up and continue a wonderful tradition." 
For the present, however. no one has agreed on the purchase of Sweeney's. For months now some of its patrons have voiced their disbelief or disappointment at the possibility of this Notre Dame-South Bend "Institution" being closed forever. 
As she spoke about the history of Sweeney's Mary occasionally paged through old photographs and other assort­cd memorobilia she has collected from being a part of Sweeney's Shamrock so long. Among her keepsakes arc some Notre Dame yearbooks signed by the graduating seniors of a particular year who belonged to those who frequented Sween­ey's. 
"Some of the boys still send me flowers on either Mother's Day or St. Patrick's Day,'' she said. 
"It's going to be hard for me not to be sentimental about losing the place," she concluded, "But I suspect I'll always miss it a great deal."


,. 
J 


-----~-----­
the observer Thursday, April 8, 1976 _ 

Action 

Express 


Sponsored by the OMBUDSMAN SERVICE Monday thru Friday 9:30a.m. to 5:00 p.m. Monday thru Thursday 9:00 p.m. to midnight Sunday 9:00p.m. to midnight phone 283-7638 
Q. Is there any place on campus where I can get my bike repaired? 
A. No. there's no place on campus that repairs bikes but there are several good bike repair shops in South Bend: Hone of Bicycles on 
E. McKinley (679-4992) and Ray's Bike Shop on Western Ave. (287-0111) are a couple. 
Q. Why aren't there any course description booklets for registration? Is this being discontinued permanently? 
A. There were a lot of complaints about the course description booklet~ last time they were put out. In response to these complaints. an article was put in The Observer asking for people who were interested in working on the booklets. There were no responses. At the present time. the. booklets are going th_roug~ a revamping process and will be pubhshed for the next rcgtstrat~on pcrio.d If you &re interested in helping with this, contact Mtke Fcord at 320b. 
Q. I am confused about when I'm supposed to register for next ~emester. What exactly are the dates for registration? 
A. Pre-registration for majors is taking place this week. Registration begins Thursday, AprilS for_seniors only. _If you will be a junior in the fall, you can regtster on Fnday 9 and sophomores-to-be can register on Monday 12 and Tuesday 13. 
Any questions? Call 283-7638 or drop your questions off at the Ombudsman office on the second floor of LaFortune. 
ND campus considered one of nation's prettiest 
by Jim Hershey Staff Reporter area, which they agreed to do. 


Graduate Student Union announces future activities 
by Mary Rathburn solved. I cannot think of one issue ~raduate students have more input Staff Reporter in which the university has refused mto departmental decision-mak­to respond," said Grounds. .ng."In an interview yesterday out­. This year's GSU program ends
Despite near collapse last year,

going Graduate Student Union :<Ith a I~cture on Apr. 21 at 8 p.m.
thisyea(s GSU program has been
President Margaret Grounds and tn the Library Auditorium. Father
vigorous, Grounds stated. Activitt­
Vice President Don Roy urges James T. Burthchaell, university
ies ranged from picnics and beer
graduate students to submit the provost, will speak on the role of 
names of their departmental repre­socials to a lecture series and the graduate student at Notre sentatives before April 15. GSU workshops on job-hunting. GSU Dame. 
officers and Vice President for
by-laws allow each department one 
Advanced Studies, Robert Gordon,
representative per 20 graduate 
students. also procured social room for lnPIRG applicantsgraduate students near the town
New representatives will attend weekly meetings beginning April 
house project on Bulla Road. "The 15 and will elect next year's officers GSU has committed $3,000 and the receive positions
Office of Advanced Studies has
by May 5. Grounds announced that stud­lnPIRG at Notre Dame did not
allocated $12,000 for this meeting ents interested in running for the hold elections for its Board of
room," Grounds said. She antici­pates that the room .will be used to
offices of GSU president, vice Directors on April 6 as planned.
expand informal education among
president and secretary-treasurer There were seven positions avail­
graduate students.
should submit their names to Gail able on the Board of Directors, and Herndon, elections committee only seven applications were re­
Looking forward to next year,

chairperson or to a departmental ceived.
Grounds and Roy hope to see a
representative. The following persons will com­
repeat of an orientation for new
Reflecting on the improtance of prise InPIRG's Board of Directors
graduate students. Last summer a
active representatives and officers, for 1976-1977: Dave Carlyle, a
committee published a booklet with 
Grounds said, "The GSU is the junior from Denison, Iowa; Joseph
information about the campus,
only representative body that grad· Turek, a freshman from Glenview,
housing, stores and recreation in 
uate students have to state their Illinois; Julie Engelhart, a sopho­
the community.
views. Roy added, "The main more from Flossmoor, Illinois; problem is not the administration Commenting on the role of Timothy Hake, a junior from Ft. but many of the graduate students graduate students in their depart­Wayne, Indiana; Ed Zagorski, a who are not willing to work for ments. Roy remarked, "Philosophy freshman from Chicago, Illinois; 
programs that would benefit them now has graduate students present Cress Hizer, a junior from Kewan­atrectly." at interviews of potential faculty na, Indiana; and Chris Nickele, a Both officers stressed the need members. We would like to see freshman from Chicago, Illinois. 
for graduate students to inform representatives of their concerns. 
''LADIES' NIGHT" 
"We can take their proposals through channels to get problems 
TUESDAY & THURSDAY 
DANCE THIS WEEKEND TO
Deprived children 
SOUTH SHORE 
MICHIGAN'S TOP ROCK


need volunteer aid 
NIGHT CLUB! 
The St. Joseph Big Brothers-Big Sisters County Chapter is looking for volunteers from the ND-SMC 





i4eaiiiy··
community. The county chapter, in their drive for volunteers, has 
22 WUT ""'"'"'". M"HAWAKA ,
designated as big brother -big sister month. The only requirement for volun­

Another aspect of the spring teers is that they take an unselfishThe campus grounds have been 
work is the Dutch elm clean-up. and mature interest in the children. 
undergoing spring clean-up recent­
The university hires a private Volunteers are matched on aly under the supervision of Donald company to cut down the dead one-to-one basis with children,Swain, supervisor of grounds main­wood from these elms in the aged 7-17.
tenance. 
Involved in this spring work, spring. The volunteers provide guidance among other jobs, is repairing the Also involved in maintenance of and friendship for young children damage done by snow plows. The the Dutch elms are two sprayings. deprived of a normal home life. A maintenance crew resods spots that The dormant spray is applied when social worker matches each person were torn up by the plows. Also the branches are bare. After the with a child who shares his-her during the spring, the crew resods leaves are fully grown. the main-interests. 
tenance team applies another sp­
some areas to improve appearance ray. Swain said that they do as The activities of the volunteersfor graduation. They also reseed 
much as possible to preserve the and their children vary from foot­paths that have been worn across Dutch elms, which are the target of ball to tutoring to picnics. The aimthe lawns. 
the dangerous Dutch elm disease. of this relationship is to provide aSwain remarked. "If students Swain said. "Notre Dame is growing and rewarding experience would not walk on the grass, we generally considered among the for both volunteer and child. Forwould not have to reseed so much. 
top three campuses in the country more information about Big Brot-We feel that students have other 
in terms of beauty.'' The other two hers
places to play sports, but they still 
play on the quads," he explained. 
are Stanford and Penn State. Big Sisters of Notre Dame and St. Swain mentioned that Morrissey The crew maintains all of the Mary's, and how to become a Big Hall voted to stop walking_ across campus grounds but does not Brother or Sister, contact Diane maintain the athletic fields, the golf Kuknyo, 137 Breen-Phillips, tele-
FaCUity Senate course, and the cemetery. phone 1675. 
~~~~~~~~~~~~.--.~~~~~ 
opposes change t-RMANDO IS NOW LOCATED NEAR CAMPUSt of departmentals ?O GIVE Y~U T~E ~Ul ?R STYLE _:'~U yY('Ntl 
~-17.manJo .1 0a7.b::7. ~ ~--lf..li7. ~h;LE ~fzc..'f2 t
(continued from page 1) Advanced Student Affairs Commit· 0 pEN c; 1;..., o A y s A wEEK -f 
tee. MC..' THRU FRIDAY 8 TO 5.30 S'ITUfHJAY f:J TO 4 ' 
By a vote of the Senate, a t Q S ' 
committee will request a meeting a PERS ~VALJZED ERVJCE & with members of the administra-' ' tion in order to discuss the Univer-• ARMAN 0 0 FEMIA 14 3.7 N. IRON Vv 00 D DR 
t 

sity retirement plan. According to ' PHOr.JE 277·06'5 SOUTH BEND INDIANA a recent report presented by the fFOR APPOINTMENT t 
Senate Committee of Retired Faculty, Notre Dame's retirement ~----------------~ program compares unfavorably ~---.-------------­~~~~s~hose of other Indiana univer-, BULLA SHED --f 
Offi<eBioboolocted 

'EVERYONE WELCOME~ 
The Senate adopted an amend-• a ment to it bylaws, which includes ' 
the immediate past-president :t THIS FRIDAY ANO EVERY ' 
(chairman) of the Senate as an ' 
... 
official member of the Executive ·f f Committee, providing he is still a. FRIDAy AT 5: J5 p.m. ' 
member of the Senate. ' ' 
The Faculty Senate will hold its A A final meeting of the year Tuesday, ' ' May 4, at which time the officers f f and chairmen of the standing t Mass rollowed by dinner f 
~~~~i~ees~i.~l·b'"e;.:I:~t~~.fo:.~~~t·-~-:--------~--_,.-..,.._ ,., 
'.'.~.. 


Thursday, April 8, 1976 . the observer 7 

Gridders inconsistent in scrimmage 
by Tom Powanda Rick Slager to wide receiver Dan 
Kelleher. Slager then completed a 
Playing without many of their play-action pass to halfback Steve starters on both offense and de-Schmitz covering the final 4 yards fcnsc, the Notre Dame football for the score. team held their second scrimmage Tom Eastman and Tim Simon of the spring season yesterday. sparked the defense as they both 
Starting out with what looked to came up with interceptions off the be his second team backs, Dan arm of Slager to put an end to Devine's offensive attack took a offensive drives. Also playing solid resemblance to that of last year. defense was sophomore Steve The Irish offense could not sustain Heimkreiter. Heimkreiter came up a drive against a defense composed with some big tackles in key of both second and first team situations. players. The secondary was the The second score for the offense most noticeable spot as neither came as AI Hunter broke a sweep Luther Bradley nor Ted Burgmeier around left end covering 39 yards participated in the contact. The and Jerome Heavens found a big defense also looked like that of last hole on a dive play picking up 17 year's coming up with the big play yards. From the five yard line it to stifle any offensive threat. took the offense four chances 
The tirst score was set up by a 40 finally scoring on a fourth and goal 
On the next play the offense yards in 8 carries. scored again as Slager found Coach Devine seemed pleased Kelleher wide open down the left with the scrimmage considering all side of the defense. The play the players missing either due to covered 70 yards and was the final injury or advanced registration for score of the afternoon. next semester. "Under the circum-
In summary, the rushing game stances it was not a wasted day,'' looked good for the Irish. AI said Devine of the scrimmage. Hunter picked up 68 yards in 8 With the absences, Devine and his carries, the majority of which came coaching staff had adequate time to on his sweep leading to the second look at his bench strength for next score for the offense. Heavens fall. looked as quick as he did last Devine also released yesterday a season picking up 27 yards in just statement concerning the health of three carries. Slager threw two co-captain Mark McLane. McLane touchdown passes but was also suffered a pinched nerve in prac­intercepted twice. The receivers tice on Tuesday and remained in for the Irish could not seem to the hospital yesterday under obser­handle the ball as numerous passes vation. He will not participate in by both Slager and Joe Montana any further spring practice but were dropped. Schmitz ran well for ~.hould be ready for the fall the offensive. Besides his two campaign. 
yard pass play from quarterback option by Schmitz. touchdowns. Schmitz picked up 32 The next scrimmage for the Irish
Tony Pace ::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::======;:;:::::::::=:::::=:::=:=:::::::::::=:::=:=:::::::::::::=::::::::::::::::::::::::=~=~=~===~=========:=:=:=========:=:=:=:===================;=========:::::::::::::::::::::::::::===========:=: 
First Round Picks 
This morning at 10 a.m. in New York City. the National Football League 
began its annual draft of collegiate players. Coaches. scouts. players. and 
draftniks. people like myst'lf who compile their own player lists as a 
hobby. have been preparing for this day for more than a year. This year's 
draft was shifted from its normal date in late January to April because of 
variou~ legal issues. 
Many people speculate upon what will actually transpire, but there arc always surprises. Here's my view of what could happen in the first round of !()(lay's draft: 
Tampa Bay begins the tirst round by selecting LeHoy Selmon, as had 
hl'L'n expected. Oklahoma's Selmon is the rock around whom John McKay 
can build his defense. 
Seattle thl·n pulls a mild surprise by selecting Pete Brock. the mammoth 
center from Colorado. Jack Patera has taken a page from Paul Brown's 
hook. d10osing to build his offensive line before his backfield. 
New Orleans. choosing third. quickly tabs Chuck Muncie of California. 
Mum·ic should tit in well with Archie Manning and the Saints' young 
offense. 
The S;t•J Diego fans arc still upset at the fact that the Chargers failed to 
-.ign Johnny Rodgers two years ago. In an attempt to appease their fans. 
the C'hagers sl'll'l't Ard1ic Griftin of Ohio State. 
New England. picking lifth. selects Mike Haynes of Arizona State. 
Hayne-.. a cornerback. should help shore up the weak Patriot secondary. 
Then the New York Jets tab Grambling's James Hunter, a super 
cornerback and a -.uper athlete. 
Cll'Vl'land. looking for a runner to pair with Greg Pruitt. decides upon 
Mi-.souri'-. Tony Galbreath. Bear Bryant still remembers the game 
G:dhreath had against the Tide last September. Detroit. after seeing their 
aging offensive line, picks Hay Pinney, a center from Washington. This is 
one of Detroit's two tirst round picks. 
The Atlanta Falcon~· turn is next and they choose Larry Gordon. a 
lindHll'ker from Arizona State. The Sun Devils' defense was excellent this 
year. and the fact that they have had two players selected in the first nine 
picks bears this out. 
Chicago's glorious Bears arc next and General Manager Jim Finks tabs 
Penn State linebacker Greg Buttlc. He will be reunited with former 
teammate Mike Hartenstein. a Finks selection of a year ago. 
Cincinnati has the Eagles pick and Paul Brown opts for Bennie Cunningham. the Clemson tight end. He did not have a great senior season but Brown sees him as a replacement for Bob Trumpy. New England's Chuck Fairbanks then quickly grabs his former star Joe Washington. With an inside runner like Sam Cunningham the Pat's offense should now be set. 
My favorite. the New York Giants, not known for their astute drafting, 
finally get wise and select Notre Dame's own Steve Niehaus. The Giants 
desperately needed a stay at home defensive tackle and Niehaus fills that 
need. 
Kansas City picks the tirst quarterback in the draft. San Diego State's Craig Penrose. The Chiefs have had their share of poor picks in recent years. Denver's John Ralston then selects a local boy, Colorado State's Kevin McClain. McClain should play middle linebacker, moving Randy Gradishar to the outside. 
With their second pick in the first round the Lions tab Purdue's Ken 
Novak. The pros love Novak's size but his desire has been questioned. 
Don Shula then will usc Miami's first pick to strengthen his secondary, by 
choosing Tim Fox. an Ohio State safety. 
With Buffalo's three man line. the nose man is important. UCLA's Cliff 
Frazier is ideal for this position. Shula then opts for big Joe Devlin, the 
Iowa offensive guard. Bob Kuchenbcrg's demands to be traded probably 
forced this pick.
,............................................... !1975 Freshman Registers $2.00~ ~ 975 Telephone Directories~ : $.25 •• • On sale this week and nexf.
• Services Office 3-5 MWF. • •• •
2nd Floor LaFortune .•• • 
• 
•' 
• 
•

~ : • 
~-­
...............•...............................:• 
-. _, 


NFL Draft 

The Baltimore Colts now find out that the only problem with a winning season is a late draft choice. Joe Thomas decides upon fullback Larry Gaines of Wyoming. Dallas also needs a running back and picks Bubba Bean of Texas A&M. The Cowboys shied away from Sonny Collins 
WANTED 

Need to leave early for Easter break. can you share a ride to either of these places: Breezewood, Pa. exit, Wash. D.C., or Baltimore. Will share money and driving. Call Mary Ellen 8098. 
Two girls need ride to Columbus Ohio for Easter. Will share driving and $$. Call Anne 4-5325 or Kathy 4-4202. 
Wanted: One small refrigerator. Call 4-4104. 
College Campus Representative needed to sell brand name stereo components to students at lowest prices. High commis­sion, No Investment Required. Serious inquiries only! FAD Components, Inc., 20 Passaic Ave., Fairfield, New Jersey 07006. Arlene Muzyka 201-227-6884. 
Ride needed to Kalamazoo on April 8th or 9th. Call Mary 5384. 
FOR SALE 

Rlr Sale: Waterbed -king size double $35. Call Frank 8656. 
Stereo for sale . Sansui AU-7500 amp, Kenwood K T 6005 tuner, Garrard Zero 92 turntable. Pioneer 3-way speakers. Call Frank 234-6535. 
Must sell Sony TC·640B Reel-to-reel and tapes. 287 0885. 
Rlr Sale: Dual 1229Q changer-$180. Call Len 289-8990. Less than 1 yr. old ­excellent condition. 
FOR RENT 

Rlr Summer Rental. Super 4-bedroom fully furnished house near Jeff-Eddy. Washer, dryer, all utilities. $175. 234­1972 . 
Milliken Rentals 282-2089, 233-5833. House apartments .available for June or 
, Sept. 

Summer houses and rooms for rent . real close to campus. Furnished ridiculously reasonably. 233-2613 or 232-7263 . 
5-room house, h111o bedrooms for rent, fenced yard, gas furnace, garage, fire­place, near Notre Dame, 1 block from St. Joseph Hospital. 233-5991 . 
Summer Rentals. 4-bedroom, 5·bedroom hOuse, 1-bedroom apt., 3-bedroom apt. All furnished. Near N.D. Very reason­able. 234-2626. ------------------r 
Rlr Rent next school term . 5 bedrooms ­2 baths. All furnished, porch, off-street parking. Near N.D. 9-month lease. 234-2626. 
Rlr rent -518 S. Falcon St. Completely furnished 6-room house. 3-bedroom, basement, drive-in, closed yard. $150 per month, plus security and utilities. Call 233-4425. Approved by Off-Campus Hou­sing. 
4,5,6, bedroom houses. Completely fur­nished. Extremely nice. Real close to campus. Sept. 1976 9-month lease. 233-2613 or 232-7263. 
5-room house within walking distance of N.D. 233-6438. 
NOTICES 

Limited number of Last Chance Armory Dance tickets available in SU ticket office and Dining Halls during dinner. Don't 
miss the Last Chance.  
Typing  professionally  done  thesis,  
dissertations,  resumes,  term  papers.  

Barb 259-4894. 
DC in an AC world? Gay "':ommunity of Notre Dame. Hotline 8870 Fri. & Sat. 8-10 p.m. Or write box 206. 
Will do typing, experienced. Term pap­ers, manuscripts, etc. Call: 233-8512. 
Have dinner with the Senior Fellow! Rocky Bleier in South Dining Hall, 5:30 Monday. North Quad Seniors call 7308 before Friday afternoon. OC seniors welcome to taste again the delights of the Dining Hall. 
Typing wanted: pick up & delivery, reasonable. 683·7759 . 
Having a party? For the lowest prices on kegs & cases & free delivery, call Dve 277-0948 . 
Looking for a place to get away on Lake 
Michigan Rlr rent . lodge and cabins during April and-or May. Only 30 min. from campus: Gintaras resort 15860 Lake Shore Rd., Union Pier, Mich. Te. 616-469-3298. 
will be conducted Saturday after­noon. No starting time has been set for the event. 
Golf team wins over Aquinas 
The Notre Dame golf teatn opened its home season yesterday on a good note, downing Aquinas 
College  by  a  24-stroke  margin,  
385-409.  
Freshman  Tim  Saurs  led  the  

Irish. turning in a 74 on the par-71 Burke Memorial layout. Saurs had nines of38 and 36, scoring birdies o on the second and seventeenth holes. 
Senior captain Paul Koprowski continued to show why he has earned the nickname "Mr. Consist­ency" as he fired his fifth consecu­tive round in the seventies with an eighteen-hole total of 75. Koprow­ski negotiated the first nine in 40. but returned in even-par 35. aided by birdies at 14 and 17. 
The Irish golfers arc 1-0 in dual meets this season. and will host Tri-State on Friday. Both the Irish Gold and the Irish Blue teams will be in action. Tee-off time is slated for2p.m. 
Rugby shirts . get the same shirts as the 
cheerleaders in Blue-Gold, Green-Gold, 
or Red-Blue, for $13.00. Call Dave 
277-0949. 
Set your own hours and income selling our line of handmade Indian jewelry. Free details. Bluebird Manufacturing, 524 Bryn Mawr S. E., Albuquerque, N.M. 87106. 
Linda's Letters, dissertations, specialists, typing at student rates. 289·5193. 
STEREO COMPONENTS-20-40 percent discount. All quality name brands. RMS Audio, 321 S. Main, 288-1681. M-F 12:00-6:00. 
Accurate fast typing. Hours 8 a.m. to 8 
p.m. Mrs. Donoho. 232-0746. 
Morrissey LDan Closes Tues. Apr. 13. AU loans must be paid by then. Hours 11:15-12:15. Call 7442, 8220, or 8105. 
LOST& FOUND 

Lost -two piece pool cue. No questions asked. Reward -Call 5148. 
Lost: One large copper, brass and silver twist bracelet. Call duff 1470. 
Rlund: One Indianapolis High School Ring. Call: Jack 3597. 
Lost: 1 pr. of men's black framed bifocals on campus. If found call 8661 ; after 5 
p.m. call 232-3217. Reward. 
PERSONALS 

Party at Dave Kelly's Thurs. Nile. 
Bonehead, May a diseased aardvark sit on your face. 
LJ. 

Eat your rice drink your tea Come to food day AI the K of C. 
Dimmle and L..ayhe . Want to go get ice? The Bthooys 
~----------------------' 
-
... 

the observer Thursday, April 8, 1976 
--------------------------------------------------. 
Irish track program on the move 
by Monte Towle 
When one looks past the revenue sports of football, hock·;y and basketball at Notre Dame, an entourage of varsity sports is seen to supplement a university sports program that carries a reputation of the highest esteem. 
However, some critics may ques­tion whether or not these "other" varsity sports carry their share of the weight in enhancing Notre Dame's sports reputation. Our fencing teams of recent years undoubtedly point to an affirmative vote of support. But, how about the track program, for example? It made a similar positive contribu­tion at one time, but its present status demands a second look. 
First-year track coach Joe Piane is readily aware of the situation and offers some of his own views: 
"The Notre Dame track pro­gram of the 1960's was an excellent one. getting its share of the national spotlight. At the present though. we are a very young team in the middle of a rebuilding stage." he said. 
Apparently, a substantial change in the Notre Dame track program has taken place in recent years, one involving a decrease in the quality of the program. "The number of grant-in-aids allotted to the the Notre Dame track program is below the current NCAA limit of fourteen. 

In order to attract more good athletes, it is necessary to give out more grants-in-aid.,'' Piane stated. 
Another view is added by Jay Miranda, a freshman from Cleve­land who has established himself as a middle distance runner of note for the Irish. He puts forth his reasoning concerning the status of Notre Dame track. "I came to Notre Dame realizing that the track program is turnining itself back around and beginning to rebuild," he said. "It is difficult to turn a program around because one bad recruiting year can have a snow­balling effect for subsequent years. 
This seems to be the case at Notre Dame. To entice the good athlete to come here, we must present an attractive program image. We are starting to do that now." 
A veteran of four years, senior co-captain Jim Hurt fuses both previous ideas into an insightful perspective. 
"In my first three years here, the track program went downhill every year. Several years ago, the number of grants-in-aid available to us was cut in half, thus cutting down on the number of good, available tracksters need to sustain 
Soccer club rolls to wins 
by Chip Scanlon 
The Notre Dame club soccer team continued to dominate its opponents this weekend as it rolled over Illinois Benedictine, 8-1. The club downed St. Meinrad College last weekend by a margin of 7 to 2. 
After a scoreless three minutes the Irish exploded for three goals in a little over a minute and from that point on the game was never in doubt. Jim Donovan tallied first and was quickly followed by team­mates Tom Mulvey and Roman Klos. The score grew as Mike Volberding dribbled in unaccosted on a breakaway and put Notre Dame up 4-0 at the half. 
The only thing that was in jeopardy in the second half was Mark Klein's shutout as the de­fense, led by cocaptain John Thorn­ton continued to turn back scoring threats. Roman Klos. Tom Mulvey and Randy Wittry finished with two goals apiece for the game. 

-
N.Y. gets Csonka 
NEW YORK AP -Star fullback Larry Csonka returned to the National Football League Wednes­day. signing with the New York Giants for a reunion with Coach Bill Arnsparger. 
Arnsparger had been an assis­tant coach with Miami when the star running back helped the Dolphins to consecutive Super Bowl championships in 1973 and 1974. Since then, both had left Miami--Arnsparger for New York and Csonka for the ill-fated World Football League. 
The announcement by the Giants Wednesday night ended a bidding war for the one-time Dolphins' star and returned to the NFL the biggest name the WFL ever had. 
The terms of Csonka's contract with the Giants were not immed­iately known, but it was known that he --or his agent, Ed Keating --had been demanding a multiyear con­tral"t worth in the neighborhood of $250.000 a year plus a variety of cash bonuses and fringe benefits. 
Crew regatta set 
The Notre Dame Rowing Club will compete in a regatta at 1 p.m. this Saturday on the St. Joseph River. The Irish will face crews from Wayne State University, Grand Valley and Culver Military Academy. The crew bus will pro­vide transportation to the racing site at 12:30 p.m. from the main 

... 
circle. Spectators will be able to see the finish of the race from the Bittersweet Bridge. 
Illinois Benedictine finally tallied with 40 seconds left as coach Bob Connolly sent in the second unit including goalie John Kirby. 
Last weekend the Irish opened up by outplaying St. Meinrad by a score of 7-2. With a 3-1 lead by virtue of goals by Roman Klos, Bill Hagerty and John Talbot, the Irish coasted past St. Meinrad. Second half scoring was done by Roman Klos, Bill Hagerty, Jay O'Laughlin and Bob Gildea. 
The Irish face DePaul and North­western this Saturday and Sunday in Chicago with both games getting underway at 1:00 p.m. 

the level of our program," he noted. ''This has resulted in an inability to compete favorably with national track powers because of a lack of depth." 
"This year, I have become aware of a significant change.'' he contin­ued. The program is on the upswing thanks to good organiza­tion and an improved mental attitude. In addition, the freshmen we brought in this year have really built a foundation to grow on and the future is indeed looking quite bright. 
The aspect of the academic element at Notre Dame is influen­tial in the success of maintaining a strong track program. "Our aca­demic standards here are an as­set," he said. Naturally we do lose a percentage of potential track stars who can't meet these stand­ards, but a majority of today's athletes realize the importance of a good education and are willing to come to Notre Dame to attain it. Anaddedattraction is the quality of competion on our schedule." 
Indeed, the Notre Dame track team does face a schedule of powerful competition that will con­tinue to lure track stars wanting to prove themselves. 
''The only way for us to improve is to go up against a share of the strongest competition in the coun­try," said Miranda. "A school's sports schedule ranks high among the considerations mulled over by high school prospects when select­ing a college as was the case with me and Notre Dame. I've been quite satisfied with the quality of competition when I realize that we've faced teams like Wisconsin and Penn State, with Vilanova and the Drake Relays among others yet to come.'' 
Hurt adds, "We have faced, by far. some of the best track powers in the country. We make it a point not to shy away from major comptetition. We are not in a league with a Michigan or an Alabama, although we are current­ly competitive in the middle and long distance running events.'' 

Track coach joe Piane is hopeful of building a strong track program at Notre Dame. [Photo by Tony Chifari] 
"Within 3 or 4 years, we should be on a level with these national powers." he continues. "Besides. the NCAA has decreased the maximum number of grants-in-aid allowed for each university's track program and when this goes in effect, it will give Notre Dame a boost in achieving equality." 
It would appear that the Notre Dame track program is on a return route to national prominence al­though Coach Piane restrains him­self from being over optimistic. Cautiously he adds, "We're look­ing ahead to the future and are set in developing the track program to a greater extent. We do have a long way to go." 
Piane's guarded optimism is justly waranted, but one can look 

Mike Maloney 
Red Sox to repeat? 
ahead to the years lying not far away when the Notre Dame track program regains the respect that has diminished in the last few years. However recognition is needed. 
Miranda states, "We are not a money-making sport so it is harder for the campus to regard track as a major sport. It doesn't bother me too much that we have to take a back seat to the revenue sports. We do get our share of recognition, here and there." 
Hurt offers a more critical look, "Overall, the track program is regarded as a minor sport. The passive attitude of the local media is a major reason. Improved publicity can only benefit our track program. 

OnP of the two eccentric geniuses. Bill Veeck. claims that to win a pcnn:-.nt you need either speed or power. Even though Ve·~ck should be rt. nning out of imaginative ideas, this is one of the fundamental keys. Yd the key weapon is pitching. particularly relief pitc.1ing. So natura:ly after adding these C')mponents, it is simple to contem;Jlate the teams to beat. 
The signif,cant t: attern in the divisional setup. p trticularly in the East, is that nne ba I month often decides the race. Two years ago the Rd Sox went int 1 one of those nightmarish h•.tting and more importantly s.:oring -lroughts in September. Thus, th•· Orioles on a hot >treak wiped out a s ~ven game lead and won the flag. Last season the Yankees. pla.~ued l y Bobby Bonds' leg injury, won only six of 26 games in July to drop from the race. So staying out of a major slump is 
mportant for 111 of the teams in the league. Here are I•1Y picks for 197tJ in the Americm League 
East 
Boston: The Ferguson Jenkins deal should bolster an already solid pitching staff. Jenki11s, 32, has won 20 or more games seven out of the last nine yean (seven with the Cubs and the last two with Texas). Joining the Canadian ace will be the 36-year-old Dominican Dandy, Luis Tiant who won 1d games last season. Rick Wise and Bill Lee round out the starting staff. The Sox are strong in the bullpen with sidearmer Jim Willou~ by and : outhpaw Tom House acquired from Atlanta for Rogelio Mo.·et. Outside Yankee Thurmon Munson, catcher Carlton Fisk is the best recei"er in the circuit. Paced by Fred Lynn, Jim Rice. Cecil Cooper. Rico Petrocelli and Carl Yastrzemski the Red Sox can't bt stopped at t 1e }late. Baltimore: With Jim Palmer, Ken Holtzman. Ross Grinsley and Mike Cuellar the Birds bolster one of the strongest staffs in baseball. Grant Jackson is a go•Jd left-handed reliever, but they're short on the right side. The Orioles' defense is the best there is, but even with Reggie: Jackson their I-itting is inconsistent. The weak bullpen and their in :onsistent hitting will keep the Birds from taking the Sox. New York: Cathh Hunter is the best pitcher in the game, and if Dock Ellis, Ken Brett and Ed Figueroa can stay free of injuries they could bring a pennant to the Yankees. As good as the starting staff is, the bullpen isn't. In fact it's pathetic. The defense is strong in the outfield with Roy White. Elliot Maddox and Mickey Rivers, but it's weak up the middle. The Yankees have a number of strong singles and doubles hitters. but are"' eak on power. The addition of Rivers gives the Yanks a 1 00-steal threat. Cleveland: The pitching is still a question mark. Can Dennis Eckersly continue to pitch like last season when he was the top rookie pitcher in the league? Can Pat Dobson win 20 games again? here are just too many question marks to tell how good this club is. 
~~~~AmericanLeaguePk~Detroit: Inexperience is the problem on this promismg young staff. John Hiller is an excellent reliever, but the rest of the Tiger pitchers are untested. On defense the infield is solid. but the outfield lacks range. The addition of Rusty Staub has to help this club. If the Tigers can't improve on last year's 57-102 mark. they'd better fold. 1\Jilwaukee The Brewers' pitching and defense are adequate anrl promising. despit.:! being along ways from being good. Outside George Scott and a fading Hank Aaron, the Brewers are one of the worst hitting tean1s in b; seball 
West 
Oakland: Charlie 0. shocked everyone in the baseball world with his Jackson-Holtzman trade. but he knows what he's doing. The deal leaves the starting staff somewhat depleted, but still strong with Vida Blue,Stan Bahnsen and Mike Torrez. The Oakland bullpen is the best in the 5ame with Rollie Fingers leading the way. The A's hitters don't impress you with their averages, but they're clutch hitters. Add this to a good defense and you have another Oakland divisional flag. l~ansas City: The Royals have a strong pitching staff with the possible exception of a southpaw in the bullpen and a great defense. But for the Royal.;, the name of the game is hitting and they are led by John Maybary, the neo-McCovey. You can look for the Royals to win at least s:. games this season, but it won't be enough. California: The pitching is strong up front with Frank Tanana, who's another Koufax. But the relief pitching is shallow and the defense is weak. Led by Lee Stanton, Bobby Bonds and Bill Melton, the Angels have improved themselves at the bat. The single most important factor to this club is speed they can run on anyone and do. If the Angels can find a fourth starter to join Nolan Ryan, T;,_nana and Hassler, and add some help in the bullpen, this club could ~urprise some people. Minnesota: The Twins starting staff is strong, but the bullpen is pitifuL 
The defense is we1k and their speed is almost non-existant. But Minnesota's hitting is second only to Boston. Gene Mauch will improve this team, but not enough to challenge. Texas: The pitching situation for the Rangers outside of Gaylord Perry looks grim. Bill Singer is just a shadow of the great prospect that he once was and the bullpen is weak. The Rangers can't run or hit. Look for Texas to battle with Chicago for last place. Chicago: 1he White Sox have a young and promising staff. Wilbur Wood will more than likely return to the bullpen to join Rich Gossage to give Chicago a strong relief corp. Cleon Jones and roadrunner Ralph Garr will aid Jorge Orta at the plate, and the palehose should be pesky Overall the Sox are relying on the young and inexperienced, and the pressure of a long season will be too much to bear. Playoffs: After the dust has cleared, the A's will have beaten the Red Sox in five games. The Sox just don't have the baserunners to take the revenge-minded A's. 







