
From Gulf Oil 


Dole accused of accepting funds 
by Barbara Breitenstein report of a contribution from Wild tied that Senator Dole had no 
billion to federal spending in fiscai Senior StaH Reporter or any other Gulf employee. knowledge of any such contribu­year 1979." Ford has promised a tion, if indeed they did exist," he balanced budget by the year 1978,
Dole acknowledged that he had 
stated. while accusing Carter of not beingtestified before a Federal grand 
able to fulfill this task until 1980.
Senator Robert Dole, Republican jury on the charge March 8, but vice-presidential candidate, is re­that he had volunteered to do so. Ford takes on Carter, South In another facet of the campaign. ported to have accepted an illegal Ford angrily ordered not to concede 
•'They were concerned about
corporate contribution in 1973, While running mate Dole denied the South to Carter, and promisedwhether I had received any money
according to a story in the New accusations of illegal campaign to fire any campaign official whofrom Gulf Oil, and the answer was
York Times dated Sept. S. The gifts, President Ford accused Car­talks about writing off that region.no," Dole said.
accusation came from a lobbyist for ter of supporting programs that the Chicago Tribune reported ye~­the Gulf Oil Corporation while President Ford "was aware of would add $100 billion to federal terday. testifying before a Federal grand the allegations concerning possible spending. The statement came "It absolutely is not so," Ford jury. illegal contributions from Gulf to inan interview with U.S. News and emphasized by pounding the table Senator Dole" before Dole was World Report and was reported by when Sen. John Tower complained 
According to the report, Claude 
chosen as his running mate, a the Associated Press wire service. about reports that Ford plam toWild, Jr., Gulfs former chief 
White House spokesman said,
lobbyist, testified under a grant of In the interview, Ford said the ignore the South because of Car­according to the Times. ter's strength in his home area.
immunity from prosecution last major difference between himself January that he passed on$5,000 to "White House aides reviewed and Carter is that "he wants more; But at the same time, some uf $6,000 in illegal corporate funds for his campaign reports," the spoke­I want less." Ford gave no figures SENATOR R. DOLE-the Presideat's top aides were still 
Dole's 1973-74 campaign for the sman continued, "and discussed to support the $100 billion figure he is ''totally unnecessary,'' accor­privately conceding that there is no 
U.S. Senate. However, a New York the matter personally with the used, but offered as an example ding to Ford. reason to waste their limited cam· Times survey of Dole's financial Senator. After reviewing all this, Carter's support for creating a paign funds in their opponent·~
"When you add up all the
report for the campaign found no the White House aides were satis-consumer protection agency, which strongest area.
programs that he (Carter) is advo­
by Marian lliicny Students may sign up for specific dates for these activities will be position where the garbage must Price has refused to let Brown StaH Reporter interview times Sept. 27-0ct.l. and announced later in the year. be picked up by a professional pick up dining hall garbage in the the interviews will begin Oct. 4. trash removal service and sent past, but changed his decision due 
The schedule for Placement
A series of Placement nights is The registration. sign-ups, and down disposals. Many dining hall to student pressure. "This will not 
nights is as follows:
being planned by the Notre Dame most of the interviews will be held employees see the removal of happen again. I am not one to be
Arts & L-etters 
Brown's services as a mistake.
Placement Bureau to acquaint se­in the Placement Bureau, 213 (Sears Roebuck), Sept. 14, Engin­pushed around," Price comment­niors and graduate students with Administration Building. eering Auditorium, Engineering "George was saving the Univers­ed. 
employment interview procedures. and Science (18M), $ept. 15, ity money,'' commented one dining Dining hall employees find the
In addition to the interview hall employee. "George's method situation ironic. The food service is According to Richard Willemin, services for graduating students, Engineering Auditorium, Business of disposal is both ecological and concerned with waste. They en­Placement Director, the idea be­the Placement Bureau is planning a Administration (Miles Laboratories economical because the waste is courage students to "Take what 
hind the activities is "to orient our series of career information nights. and Alexander Grant), Sept 16, recycled through the animals," he you can eat and eat what youstudents 'to prepare for employer These informal gatherings, held in Center for Continuing Education 
added. take." 
interviews as well as they possibly conjunction with St. Mary's Col­Auditorium, and MBA, Sept. 21, "We miss the daily pick-ups,'' Price commented that the stu­
can--what an interview is, how to lege, will focus on the future job Hayes-Healy Amphitheater. Each another employee went on to say. dents are doing remarkably well. conduct themselves during it, what interests of undergraduates. The presentation begins at 7 .p.m. 
"The garbage disposals are break­"I am amazed at what little food is to say, when to ask questions." 
ing down. They just don't seem to now wasted. Yet this waste is be able to handle it all and the going down the disposal," PriceThe various employers will' ex­
ND World HunJger Coalition 
University is now paying a trash. remarked.
plaim the procedure their compan­ies use for interviews. The explanation will include charts and 

to begin annual activities 
candidacy rating scales detailing the amount of paperwork and by John Moran year will continue the work of oneinformation required of an appli­StaH Reporter of the persons involved with itscant. Such information as academ­
early development, AI Sondej.
ic and extra-curricular achieve­
Sondej colle.rted donations outside
ments aid the company in its search Aiming at greater awareness and the dining !halls; while attendingfor a particular type of job candi­concern throughout the Notre Notre Dame. The funds hedate. 
Dame and St. Mary's communities collected were used to aid the work 
Two actual interviews will be for the hungry and the poor of the of some of the organizations men­conducted each night with the world will be one of the objectives tioned above. visiting company representatives of the Notre Dame World Hunger 
By making himst-.. one of the
and student volunteers. In order to Coalition. 
more well-known persons about the 
present accurate interview situa­Co-ordinated this fall by Mike campus, Sondej was able to createtions, the students will not have Bowler and Kitty Warner, the an increased awareness of worldmet the employers or heard their Coalition will continue its fund-rai­hunger situation.
preliminary remarks. A critique sing activities, most notably the The World Hunger Coalitionperiod with a question and answer Wednesday evening fasts and daily began iii November of 1974. Sincesession will follow these inter­collrctio,ts outside the dining halls. then it has conducted extensiveviews. 
hynger awareness drives. The
Included again among the organ­
''Their purpose is to show the coalition has supplied films, lectur­
ization's recipients are the Catholic 
students the need to prepare for an ers, and literature to schools,
Relief Services, CARE, Church
interview and to understand the parishes, and organizations
World Services and UNICEF.
differences in interviewing tech­throughout the South Bend area. It
Coalition recipients are chosen on
niques due to the differences in the also sponsored Food Day activities
the basis of how efficiently their
philosophy of the company and in last April and a letter drive in
funds are utilized.
the personality of the person doing support of "Right to Food" legisla­the interviewing," stated Wille­In addition to these organiza­tion. min. tions, the coalition will continue to This year's activities, according 
support the more isolated efforts of. to co-coordinator Mike Bowler, will An open house and registration persons throughout the world, begin with the Wednesday evening is scheduled for Sept. 22 and 23, including several Notre Dame fast. For each uneaten meal the1-4:30 p.m., for students to official­graduates, who are working to aid University will contribute 75 centsly register in the program. A the poor and hungry. Also aided to the coalition. Last year somegeneral information manual is be­by the organization will be the 13,000 meals were offered by Notre 
Fencing coach Michael De­ed a short presentation bySouth Bend Justice and Peace Dame students, and through theiring pr~pared for distribution which , Cicco was among several the coaches of the varsityincludes an interview transcript, Center, a diocesan service group efforts $9,800 was raised for the coaches wllo spo'e last sports, as well as teamsguidelines for correspondence, and run by the Holy Cross Fathers. world's hungry. Pledge forms for 
night at St. Mary's sports that will be initiated this 1night. The evening includ-year. 
the schedule of visiting company 
recruiters. The coalition's activities this · (continued on page 2) 


e server 
university of notre dame -st. mary's college Vol XI, No.6 
Tuesday, September 7., 1976 
By employers 

Interviewing hints offered 
cating or are included in the Ford plans to organize the Democratic platform," Ford com­"Georgians for Ford" and .to tra\cl mented, "my fiscal advisors tell me in the South to prove that he will that it would add at least $100 not ignore that region. 
Free garbage removal cancelled by dining hall 
By Karen Hinks removal service." 
and Edmund Price, director of food 
Bill Barnes services informed Brown he could 
StaH Reporters no longer perform the service. "I 
stopped him due to 'people prob­
Student dining hall employees lems' in the best interest of the returned this semester to find an University," explained Price. "It old friend missing. After ten years, is a matter of professionalism." George Brown, a Michigan pig Price explained that he based his 
farmer, no longer makes his daily decision on many years of personal visit to the dining halls. experience in food services. 
At no cost to the University, Sources felt that Brown's dismis­Brown relieved the dining halls of sal was due to Price's personal non-consumable food to feed his feelings against him. "I would not pigs. The refuse was mixed with let any personal feelings affect my costly grain and fed to the hogs. judgement, I like George," Price 
The University is now in a said. 

the observer Tuesday, September 7, 1976 
~--News Briefs--.......,. 
~============~~Na~ 
Hint of new offer 
DETROIT -Ford Motor Co. hinted yester­day it may soon make a new offer to the United Auto Workers in order to get currently stalled contract negotiations mo­ving again before the Sept. 14 strike deadline. 

Migrants' sit-in 

WARREN, Ind. -Dissident migrant farm workers staged a brief sit-in yesterday morning at the offices of the Morgan Packing Co., plant here. The migrants refused to leave when company officials would not answer their questions as to why there were no jobs for 22 workers who said they had been promised employment. The workers left when company officials said the jobs had been eliminated. 
.,__On Campus Today----...~ 
-seminar, "hormonal regulation of ovarian 4:30pm 
development in mosquitoes: a model" by dr. mortons. fuchs, n.d. galvin aud. coffee at 4 pm. 
7 pm -lecture, "role of women at notre dame" given by sr. john miriam jones, asst. provost of notre dame. lewis hall rec room. 
7:30pm -panel discussion, "lower than the_ a~ gels" with james o. belis, n.d., manone so. kinsey, n.d., and a. peter walshe, n.d. library lounge. 
7:30pm -meeting, faculty senate meeting. room 202, cce. 
-meeting, ski team meeting room 1-c7:30 om 
Iafortune center. all nd-smc skiers invited. 
7:30pm -meeting, charismatic prayer meeting. Iafortune student center, 2nd floor rm d. 
midnight -album hour, wsnd, 640 am, new release run in its entirety. 


Reefers, books highlight Student Union activities 
by John Simari sed response next year. Anyone Staff Reporter with problems concerning a rented refrigerator should contact · the 
Student Union. The refrigerator rentals and the 
The Services Commission alsostudent book exchange highlighted 

sponsored the student book ex­Student Union Services Commis­change. According to Burke, thesion's work this month. 
response is "getting bigger everyFor the first time, the commis­year." Anyone who has books orsion bought their own refrigerators 
money to pick up may do soto rent to students. According to Wednesday, Sept. 8 and Thursday, Service Commissioner, Genny Sept. 9 from 6:30 to 9:30 pm on theBurke, the response was overwhel­second floor of LaFortuqe.

ming and all 300 units were soon 
leased. Burke stated that the 

Freshmen who have not received commission hopes to have more the Freshman Register should con­refrigerators to handle the increa-tact the Student Uni9n ~ecretary. 
1he Observer is published Monday through Friday and Yoeekly during the

l 
SUITYl'lel" session, except during thet 

exarrs and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of the Univ. of Notre Dame and St. flllary's College. Subsaiptions may be purchased for $18 ($1 0 per semester) fro"Tl The Observer, Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second Class postage paid, Notre Dame, IN 46556. 
ND student clubs & halls interested in 



(*!he Observerl 
n-campus concess10 
Night Editor-Debbie Dahrling 

stands for football 
Ass't Night Editor-Leigh Tu­

Saturdays must be
nakan, Paul Schappler 

registered with
Layout-Paula Carroll, Betsy 
Masana, Tracy Mcauliffe, Ju­

Student Activities 
dy Byrnes,Patti Doyle, Denise 
Persinger, Drew Bauer 

by Spm. Wednesday 
Copy Editor-Kathy Nolan 

Sept.8
Day Editor-Mary Pat Tarpey 
Editorials-Pat Hanifan 

Call Activities Office 
Features-John Calcutt 

at 7308 or stop in, 
Sports-Ray O'Brien 


irst floor La Fortune 
Typists-Kathy Egbert, Mel 
Celeste · 

Night Controller-Karen Chia­l mes J 



HEY! 

Faculty senate to convene 
by IJndy Declo interesting barring the usual form­every teacher. A study of these alities of the first meeting of the questionnaires was done this sum­
Staff Reporter 

year. mer and the result should be in the 
Grade inflation and the Teacher/ The problem of grade inflation report. Course Evaluation sheets will be will be discussed in a report given Another topic that will be discus­the most important topics discuss­by Professor Robert Kerby on the sed at tonight's meeting is the ed tonight at the first meeting of Committee of Student Affairs. value ofthe Teacher/Course Evalu­the Faculty Senate. According the Research for this report began last ation sheets that students fill out Chairman Professor James Danehy, winter when questionnaires con­twice a year. Professor Bob Farrow tonight's meeting should be very cerning this problem were ~ent to on the Committee for Faculty 
Affairs will report on the helpful­ness of these evaluations to the teachers. 
Professor Danehy explained that 
there are other topics on the (continued from page 1) Bowler also noted that AI Sondej agenda for tonight's meeting, but the fast will be distributed early will be visiting the University this the problem of grade inflation and next week. Thursday in his Campus a Day the value of the Teacher/Course 
Over and above the financial efforts. He will hold an informal Evaluation sheets will be of the benefits of the university-wide fast, talk Thursday evening in the most interest ot students and Bowler exp.Jained that the program Library lounge in which he will faculty. The meeting will be held st creates "an awareness of the poor discuss his experiences with the 7:30 in the Center for Continuing and hungry, along with a feeling of Overseas Development Council. Education. 
Benefits of 'fast' explained 
solidarity among the participants." ______....:..._________________--'= Bowler described the coalition's Close to Campusessential goal as ''an effort to brin , to Notre Dame and St." Mary's NOTRE DAME AVENUE APARTMENTS 
more closely-knit atmosphere, and · to provide opportunities for com· 2 bedrooms • Completely Furnished
munity response.'' 

$260.00 per Month
ERRATUM 
In yesterday's summary of Cin-

Up to 4 Students 
ema '77 we neglected to mention ~~~'~n(~~~~3g~ri~~-~).ries, Day for 233·6363 Or '234·6647
............................~ 
+ TAKE THE + : GREYHOUND BUS SERVICE : 
: TO CHICAGO There's an : 
• DIRECTLY FROM CAMPUS! '",~~sier way!!! + 
.• .•
~~ 

• Leaves Main Circle every Friday at 4:45 • • Arrives Downtown Chicago at 7:00p.m., • 
• f!!~i!0Do:town Chicago every Sunday • • at 7:15 p.m. • • Arrives ND campus at 9:20 p.m. • 
• Tickets will be iold at the circle • • Every Friday at 4:30 p.m. • 
• One-way: $6.75 • Round trip: $12.85 [Save $.65 •
• compared to 2 one-ways] 
: ~~::;,....'83;a·:=:..•;';:".!.·.:~ldntght ,;~: ""~""'~ : 
• every Thursday ~ make your seat reservations. • 
*The Obs~rver 
REPORTERS'/ 





~~~J!~P~T!VE )
Freshmart or Graduate Student '"­English major, Pre-med or Bio-physicist ' 
Introductory meeting tomorrow night at 10 / for anyone interested in writing for "-... 
The Observer ' If you can't make it call Bob or Maureen at 8661 ~ or come up to The Observer office anytime , 
TOMORROW!!! 
.J 
:;1 
. 
L I 

Tuesday, September 7, 1976 the observer
•••••••••3 
SMC Law Society expands ••••••••••• 
by Marty Hogan dent in her decisio~ to pursue a "We also had a chance to Mary's Career Development Cen­
St. Mary's Editor career in law. "St. Mary's Law participate in some legal matters," ter head, has been a great help to Society can do just that," she Raccuglia said, referring to the Law th~ society in this task." explained. Society's involvement last year They will also be dtstributing a 
Interest in law has grown enor­Some of the aspects the Law with the Equal Rights Amendment. booklet this semester to students 
mously in the past few years Society covers are the women's role "We went to different meetings describing the society and what according to Cindy Raccuglia, pres­as a l~wyer in society, pre-legal and discussions concerning ERA students need to know concerning ident of St. Mary's Law Society. education, law school admission with an ERA committee who later law. "Deans from various law "The Law Society has been here for requirements, paralegal profes­went to the legislators," she exp­schools will be here interviewing five years but it's growing now sions and choosing a law school. lained. "Because of this valuable perspective law students during because today women in law are To supply some of this information, experience,'' the Law Society is the course of the year also," more prevalent than they ever the Law Society last year invited planning a program on women's Raccuglia stated. were," she said. noted speakers from the area who equal rights next semester. Raccuglia works in conjunction 
••are 

St. Mary's doesn't have a pre­are involved in law. The Law Society has many with Dr. Deanna Sokolowski, facul­law program per se, so Raccuglia "Most of them were women who activities planned for this year ty advisor for the Law Society; stresses the importance of an have been successful in their legal including visits to court, a speech Donna Berndt, vice-president; Tel­::needed!:: organization that can help a stu-careers," Raccuglia noted. by a Notre Dame law student and a ena Stokes, secretary; Rosemary 
specialty seminar. "For this Bruckner. treasurer and Mary Pat seminar, we would like to get Butler, publicity chairman. 
:·. The Observer needs •• 
attorneys, preferably women, in This year the Law Society plans 
people to deliver the •• different aspects of the law to hold to hold monthly meetings. An • • papH. If you have ••-a panel discussion and a question orientation meeting is planned for •• any days where you •• 
and answer period," Raccuglia Sunday, Sept. 12, 6:30 p.m. in 
Bomb explosion calls 
•• have no classes ••
for FBI investigation 
stated. room 161 LeMans. "All students 
St. Mary's Career Development interested in law as a career. or •• ••
LOUISVILLE, K . (AP) _The FBI . He said police assume the bo~b-would like to earn a 
. y · · f mg was related to the busmg Center is aiding the Law Society otherwise are encouraged to •• quick $5, come up to ••
has entered th~ mvesttg_atton o a dispute and thus could constitute a this year with the development of a come,'' Raccuglia stressed. 
• • the Observer, top ••
predawn bo~bmg at a htg? school violation of the federal court's law. students "We're excited about this year
section on There floor of LaFortune
here. Desptte the bombmg and d t' d 
d. . h . d' t' b esegrega ton or er. may get information on LSAt's, because we have many activities •• Center, or call8&61 .•• 
spo_ra ~~ mg tttme tsrup tons y FBI officials did not comment on law school admission, financial aid planned and we've seen a great 
•• Ask for the editor. ••
anttbusmg protesters, school offi-h . . t' t' ther than to say and ·~other pertinent information." show of interest. The benefits from
. . t etr mves tga ton o 
ctals satd classes would resume on he were tr in •'to determine if ''Two students from the society St. Mary's Law Society for students s~thedule Tuesday throughout the ~he~e has b{enga violation of the will keep the section up to date," desiring a career in law will be 
_ct y. The bomb that went off early Monday morning at Male High School in downtown Louisville had been placed beside a radiator in the lobby of a gymnasium, police said. The bomb blew the radiator from the wall and blasted a hole about 2 feet in diameter in the floor. However, a police bomb squad officer said it did no structural damage to the building. ­The bomb went off about 10 miles from the area in southwest­ern Jefferson County where police used tear gas Sunday night to disperse about 800 antibusing de­monstrators who threw bottles and light bulbs at police. Eighteen persons were arrested. It was the third night of unruly protests since the opening of schools in Louisville and surround­ing Jefferson County. The unified county-city school district is operat­ing for the second year under a federal-court ordered desegrega­tion plan. But the protests have all been in the evening, well after school hours. Classes have been conduct­ed without disruption since open­ing day and the school buses have moved through the streets without interference. The bomb squad officer said he had talked to district school of­ficials who said classes would be held on schedule Tuesday after the Labor Day holiday. 
FBI officials and bomb squad members on Monday swept up broken glass and other debris around Male High School and sent it to an FBI laboratory in Washing­ton. 
''They will check for various chemicals and try to determine what type of fusing was used," 
·the officer said. "Preliminary evidence is that the explosive tentatively appears to have been dynamite.'' 
FAST 
TYPEWRITER 
SERVICE 
291 s Mishawaka Ave. 

~·PllltNtt''lI GOLF CENTER . ~ 
~ {{1'~ ~ 
~ . ~
. 

~ 

"NIGHT LIGHTED" ~
I 
9 HOLE • PAR 3 GOLF COURSE ~ 
-OriYing Range 18 Hole Miniature~
J ~ ·
Open Dawn lil 10,00 PM 

' LOCATED US 33 AT IRONWOOD ~ 
: Call ' 288-0033 ] ~ 
1 f
If Nn Ans Call 282-2366 

.........................................,. 

~

*lJ~deQ~~~~~Y£~~itm-;n-Cb;d
The Observer is published ion of a majority of the. Edtto-Dan Sanchez Managing Editor 
by students of the Univer-rial Board. Commentaries are Chris Smith Asst. Managing Ed. sit of Notre Dame and St. the views of ~heir _authors. Gregg Bangs Execut!ve Ed!tor Mrr 's College. It does not Column space ts avatlable. to Val zurblis Ex~cu!tve E~ttor nec:Ssarily reflect the policies all members of the commumty • Pat Hanifin Edttortal Edtto~ of either institution. The news and letters are encourag~d to Bob Mader Exec. News_Edttor · rted as accurately and promote the free expresston of Maureen Flynn Campus Edtto.r • ts repb~ t" 1 as possible. varying opinions on campus. Marti Hogan St. Mary_'s Edttor 
as o _1ec tve Y . Don Reimer Copy Edttor 
Editortals represent the opm-Tim O'Reilly Features ~ditor Business Manager T~m Fr~nczak Fred Herbst Sports Edttor 
Advertising Manager Mike Mt_ller. Photo Editor Tony Chtfart . Production Manager Martha L. Fannmg 
Tuesday, September 7, 1976 
commenfary~!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
Those Endless Lines Are Getting Me Down 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii tom o'neiI 

"You all see, Jimmy beard that Davy Crocket grinned a 'coon out of a tree." 
seriously, folks iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 
It's the Law 
art buchwald 
Standing in line is what college is all about. 
The on-campus student must wait in line three times a day to eat, and sometimes in the dorms just to use the shower or the toilet. The off-campus student shares som~ lines with the on-campus student. Both wait in line to register, to pre-register, to buy books, to cash checks, to get concert or athletic tickets and so on. Otherwise, the off-campus student has his indivi­dual experience of the gr,ocery store line to contend with. 
Coming back to school after a 
, three month vacation from ND­SMC only to meet with the Ion~ an_d :liscouraging lines of college hfe ts llmost unbearable. Wednesday, :he line just to get into the N~ Bookstore was so long that tt ~extended out onto the South Quad. fhe line inside to purchase books -was not so long, but equally 
chaotic. At St. Mary's student government hoped to decrease the line for books by helping out the bookstore staff. Their charitable effort was well-appreciated but SBP Bilek and others found that little could be done to alleviate the problem. Nice try. 
Granted, some standing in line is unavoidable, as the SMC Bookstore example points out, but a Iarg~ part of it can be avoided. At regtstra­tion, for instance, on-campus m~Ies must stand in as many as fou~ hnes to get their laundry numbers, cards coupons and bags. It would seem' to be more efficie_nt . t_o combine the purposes of the mdtvt­dual lines, and then to break up the long line into smaller ones. 
Football ticket distribution caus­es more lines. Having to get up hours before the ticket windows open in order to get a good ticket is bothersome. Standing in line half-asleep at dawn, one won~ers why the University' d~esn't. JUst give each of us a sectton ticket, based on class, at registration. Students don't bother with seat designations anyway. They gener­ally sit where they want to. 
Ironicaly, it seems, are a part of the Catholic mentality. As Cat~ol­ics we stand in line to recetve Communion. Protestants, in gen­eral, remain seated in the pews and are served. It also seems to be pa~ of In Loco Parentis. St. Mary s freshment wait in long lines each night to sign in at their halls. 
Not having to stand in stud_ent lines, University or College offictals may overlook the ord~al of the individual student. Umverstty or College officials should caref~lly review the purpose of each !me, then try to discover way~ . t~at student frustration can be mmtmtz­ed. But I doubt if they will be lining up to do so. 
P. 0. Box Q 
Hesburgh Closet Sexist? 

Dear Editor: 
I am appalled and thorough!y disgusted at Father Hesburgh s answer to the "blonde vs. bru­nette" question in the Observer interview. This is 1976; Father Hesburgh is president of an all_eg­edly coeducational university. I~'s obvious that the carefully nonsexist language employed by unive~sity officials is, at best, a memortzed skill. When a non-rehearsed answer creeps out, the lack of understanding is blatant. 
Connie M. Smith 
Students 
Not Guests 

Dear Editor: 
Over the last two years I have watched countless administrators make countless decisions without regard to the wants and ~eeds. of the students. Your intervtew wtth Father Burtchaell has finally re­vealed to me the "justification" for the frustration by administrators of student desires to help m~ke decisions concerning our educatton 
WASHINGTON--One of the most important legal decisions of the last SO years was made in Washington, D.C., last week. U.S. Dist. Judge Charles Richey ruled that employees whose continued on submission to the sexual advances of their supervisors may sue their bosses for sex discrimination. 
Judge Richey, in his opini~n, said that, while the case before htm involved a female subordinate em­ployee and male boss, the situation could be reversed--and a finding of discrimination could be made whe­re a female supervisor made sexu~I advances to the male employees tn her office. 
However, Judge Richey ruled, sexual discrimination probably cou­ld not be raised as an issue if the supervisor was bisexual and made demands on employees of each sex. the reason the -ruling has such far-reaching implications is that it sets new guidelines for how bosses can behave during and after office hours all over the country. This is probably how things will go now. 
"Miss Roseberry, That's a beau­tiful sweater you're wearing to­day." , 
"Thank you, Mr. Novak. 
"And that's a lovely shirt you're wearing, Mr. Callihan." "Thank you, Mr. Novak." . "Would you mind staying late 
tQnight and helping me with my report, Miss Roseberry?" 
"I-I-I-guess so, Mr. Novak." 
"You too, Callihan." 
That night. 
"Well, that seems to do it, Miss Roseberry. We got the report finished. What say we go out for a nice dinner?" 
"I don't know, Mr. Novak. think I'd better go home." 
"Oh let's relax. You know I've got my' eye on you, and there is a promotion coming up in the de­partment and I think I . kn_ow someone who might be gettmg tt. Heh, heh, heh. "· 
"Well, all right, as long as we make it an early evening." 
"You coming, Callihan?" 

"Gee, Mr. Novak, I've got a 
date." 
"Well, break it if you want to 
stay in this job." 
"Yes, sir." 
A small French restaurant. 

"You know, Miss Roseberry, my wife doesn't understand me. 
You're the only one.who knows the 
pressure I'm under." 
"I do, too, Mr. Novak." 

"When I want your opinion I'll ask for it, Callihan. Just eat your soup and shut up." 
"Yes, sir." 

"People think being a supervisor · is all peaches and cre~m. ~ut under this tough extertor, Mtss Roseberry, beats the heart of a man with all the same desires and needs for love and affection as anyone else." 
"If you· hold my hand, Mr. Novak, I can't eat my soup.'' "Sorry about that, Mr. Calli­han." 
Two hours later. 

"Well, Miss Roseberry, here we are at your apartment. Can I come in for a drink?" 
"Oh, it's so late, Mr. Novak.·: 
"Remember what I said about that promotion, Miss Roseberry.'' ''All ri8ht, but just one drink.'' "Good night, Mr. Novak." "Get in here, Callihan. You 
don't leave until I leave." 
"But I'm tired, Mr. Novak, and I have to review all those applica­tions tomorrow morning." 
"Who isn't tired? You think it's fun having to worry about being sued every time I take someone from the office out for dinner? You cna take Miss Roseberry anywhere you want to . But if I take her out I have to take you, too. I don't make that kind of money, Callihan.'' 
"I guess it does take the fun out of being a boss, Mr. Novak." 
"Oh, forget it. Why don't you get into something more comfort­able, Miss Roseberry? ... You too, Callihan." "Why me, Mr. Novak?" 
"Because, dammit, it's the law!" 
and our lives here at N.D. 
Our most beloved Provost con­tends that this university must be run by the "senior people" (who are they?) and that students are merely "guests". 
His argument is patently false. His notion that we are "guests" is ridiculous on its face. How many people charge their guests for roor_n and board? How many send thetr guests an itemized list of vario~s fees that must be paid by a certam date? I suspect that the good Father has lost track of the real meaning of the word "guest" and has adopted, instead, the language of hotel-motel operators who call their paying customers "guests." 
But my counter-argument ex­tends beyond a debate over seman­tics to the idea of a university itself. 
A university, if it is anything,_ must be concerned with educatton--a complicated process that involves the interactions of-students, faculty and administrators. To claim, as Fr. Burtchaell does, that stude~ts are merely "guests" is to clatm that they are not really an in_tegral part of the process of educatiOn. 
It's high time that we finally approach this matter as adults recognizing that students, faculty, and administrators each have an equally important role to play and each deserves an equal votce m the decision-making process. Without students, the University would die--not only from lack of funds, but also from a lack of purpose. 
Karl Kronebusch 


DOONESBURY by Garry Trudeau 



-------~~-------------------------------------------~-~ --­
Tuesday, September 7, 1976 ~t~h~e~o~b~s~e:..:.r..:..v~e..:..r__S
•

·B,ook rev1ew: 
Why not the best? , Where is the rest? 
by Paul Lewis by Chip Spina 
Jimmy Carter the man is finally revealed 
Although Jimmy Carter's "autobiograp­600,000 people in Georgia..." and that in his autobiography, Why Not the Best?, hical book" Why Not the Best? has been on ''Although I , did poorly among black
;c 'f: I~ IIISOWX WORIJ!S
which hit the bookstands early this year. the book racks for several months, I, like citizens in the Democratic primary, I did
i ·~ THE OXI.Y BOOK Tll \T ~E~'E.\LS
Carter is shown as more than just a many others, did not feel an urge to read it well in the General election. With a last 
~ ~· ms un:.ms m~uu-s.
presidential candidate. We see him as a until after the former Georgia governor had minute surge, we won the election handily'.' navy officer, a nuclear specialist and a become our Democratic presidential nomi­The entire book follows along these struggling young businessman as well as a nee. lines. Little in the way of hard information fledgling , politician battling the party or solid facts and figures appears.
If ,VJJ..TYLiit'l' machine. As campaign biographies go, Once his coronation was completed in Basically, we are told that Jimmy can be Why Not the Best: stands out from others mid-July, however, it seemed only logical trusted, Jimmy is honest. Nowhere does
,t'l'lll~ ICI~ . ~! 
as one that truly reveals something about to seek out the real Jimmy Carter, to he back it up with facts. the man under study. J llli .) I.:tl'll" 4·~\11'1'1 :1~ discover as much as possible about the; Gov. Carter flashes through his childhood,We see a shaken Jimmy Carter admitting j 
man who may become the 39th President of 
his military career, his return to to Admiral Rickover, a man Carter respects the United States. I naturally presumed the Georgia peanut farm and his entrance highly, that he did not always try his best; that there couldn't be a better source than into politics as if they were only of a marriage proposal rejected and finally the horses mouth, so to speak. But after secondary consideration in the book. We accepted; a young submarine officer reading the book, I am still searching for learn as little of his record as Georgianarrowly escaping death at sea; and finally the real Jimmy Carter. 
governor as we did of his prior life. As it is 
the mature Carter carefully conducting a I precisely that area which would give the skillful campaign for governor. i As he seems to have done so often best evidence of how he would perform as 
Perhaps the greatest moment of interest in the book occurs when Carter recalls, with exciting detail, the incredible tale of his election of the Georgia Senate. This one moment alone describing the fas­cinating downfall of a corrupt political clan makes reading the book well worthwhile. 
The majority of the book deals with Carter's life in a somewhat confusing hodgepodge manner. At one point, in the middle of a description of his naval life, Carter suddenly tells us, "I seldom saw my new bride." He never even told us he was married, let alone who his wife is up to this point. Later on he is nice enough to relate to us his courtship and marriage to Rosa­lynn. 
The book provides an interesting account of childhood life in the Depression but again is confusing. After going on for a few pages about how rough farm life was ("my life on the farm during the Great Depression more nearly ressembled farm during his campaign, Gov. Carter in his president. When the entire 179 pages are book continually reverts to that nebulous completed, the degree of familiarity is only never-never land of his "beliefs" and minimally increased. Rather, we are "faith". While speaking of what he means beseiged with page after page of Jimmy's to America and what our nation means to love for America and his "simple and him, Carter ignores the purpose of a effective" way to restore the government biography. ~owhere can a cl~ar, ~nambi-to the people. guous, _flowmg story of hts hfe _and It is unfortunate that a man plagued by accomphshments_ be fou~d. ~hat_ mtgh· charges of vagueness must himself rdnfor e have been an mformattve, mtelhgently that description in his own autobiogra­prese~ted lite_rary work on his unknown phy. The book may have been a smart past ~nstead ts one of the most _loosely political ploy while Mr. Carter was the orgamzed, poorly structured and manely unknown darkhors'e in the primarv race. 
life of fully 2,000 years ago than farm life written biographies in press. The book is · today"), he tells about the tennis court pure political expediency at its best. In retrospect, however, the book leaves a they had qn the farm! blot on the slate of a supposedly intelligent, 
The introduction and closing pages A case in point: while Mr. Carter speaks thoughtful man. In the long run the provide the best compilation of Carter's about his successful run for the governors­literary worth of Why Not the Best? is not 
views on America yet in evidence and hip in 1970, nothing is said about his much greater than the value of one of should not be missed. Why Not the Best? platform, his opponents, or any concrete Jimmy Carter's famous smiles. It seems is the best of the, many Jiinmy Carter campaign information. We are only told we may never kHew the real Jimmy Carter. biographies now out and should not be that "Rosalynn and I in that time He should have entitled the book Where Is 
missed by any voter. personally shook hands with more than the Rest? 
JJ~;:;:;:::;:::;:=:·}:::::::::::=:~:==~=~=~:;:;:::::::::::::::::;:;:;:::::::::::;:;:?.=:;:;:;:!:!:!:~:~:!:~:~:·:!:~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~;::~:!:::~:~:~=~:·~·.::~:;:;::::::-;:=:=:=:=:=:=::.::c:~::::::::::::::::::~:=:=:=:=:::::::::::::;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 
~ ~ ;:;: ;:;;:::::;;:  su~m mer Notes.  Dame a number of times, is back in the news. This summer Novak published The Joy of Sports, in which he gets a bit carried away, theorizing that sport is, somehow, a religion. Novak calls a football field "the green oval floor of the amphitheatre" and  apologize, never explain.' " ~~ ***** ~: By far the m~st traumatic events at * Notre Dame thts summer were the ~,; student deaths. It was Ci\'erwhelming for t:people to have to bid farewell to Farley's ~;  
:;;:;  makes hot dogs and popcorn  smell like so  Cynthia Cole one day (she  was  buried in ~;  
~~:  much incense.  Old George Blanda gets  the  campus  cemetary  on  Notre  Dame :::;  
::;: ;~i :;~:::: ?.?.  Fr. s·lll Toohey  likened to Ulysses, if not Hercules; the words "ritual, myth, and legend" are painfully overworked; the "grace" takes on awesome double-meaning. In callingsports a religion. he overrates sports or  avenue), and then travel the very next day :;:: to Milwaukee for the burial of Margie ;;:; Eisch. ~:;'~:­I was very moved by the love and ;:;:  
;:;: ~.~.~._;. (E~itor's Note: With this issue, Fr. Toohey begins his fifth year as an Observer  He noted that youth today tend to be in the silent minority. "The impressive minority  underrates religion, or both. Melvin Maddocks, writing  about  No- tenderness of the student-friends of both :;:; dCynthiBa and Margie during those painful ~~11 ays. utI was even more deeply touched:;::  
~=~  columnist.)  in that student minority," he pointed out,  vak' s  book  in  The  Christian  Science  by the parents of the two.  Rarely have I :;::  
:;:;  "the articulate editors of campus papers.  Monitor, had this to say:  "Why must an  ever been privileged to come into contact :;;;  
;:·:::··;:·':::' ;:;: .. ~:;:  Participants of last spring's Sophomore· Literary Festival may have thought theyh dgot a knife in the back when _they ear about Jorge Luis Borges' comments about  leaders of religious groups, concerned­'maJ·ors,' regularly rue the acute apathy that has supplanted chronic apathy as well as the momentary late-'60s tantrum one  intellectual always have to have a reason( h ) f h' If h h'or t ree or everyt tng. e turns tm­f 1 h b · sel loose on pop cu ture, e ca,n e JUSt hopeless, since he has to elevate every- with such faith. They were truly amazing! ::;:Th b · 1 h d · h ···· ey were o vtous y crus e wtt sorrow; ::·t th Jd · d hye ey cou n t o enoug to compas-;::·· t 1 · · t t 11 h h h d ···· 0 0:~o~a e 't ;mms er a t ose w s are :;::  
:;::~-::::.::1.:!: college students, once he was safely back home after his three-month lecture tour of U.S. campuses. Borges was clearly a big hit at Notre Dame. But this summer he  found on campuses. These students complain of a .kind of campus hedonism blended with inordinate career conscious­ness among the many. My hunch is that  thing to high significance. No subject is more treacherous for the intellectual than sports. What he likes, an intellectual must also admire. Why else would he like it?  etr gne · 1i?. · After it all, when I was still struggling to ;:;: make some sense out of the tragedies. I ;~ suddenly realized how I had grown to ;~:  
;j:;  announced flunking grades for the "extra­ordinarily ignorant" Yankee students.  we have only returned to the normal, natural state of things after the '60s, with  How will the intellectual honor his newly discovered love? He will make sports  appreciate what it means to be a parent of a ~ Notre Dame student. There seems to be ;:§  
:;:~ j~l1 ....  Said he:· "They read only what they must to pass, or what the professors chose. Otherwise they are totally dedicated to  its celebrities and momentary crowd-pleasing heroes. But if the young are to represent passion and pursuit, their own  intellectual--make it one of those Important Subjects he is forever brooding upon. He will-run, jock, run!-develope a theory.  something they share in common ... a =:;; special affection for the school. an unusual ~ dedication to the Christian life, a profound §j  
l;.:r.:  television, to baseball and to football."  leaders are the first to suggest that the  Novak is at his best when he simply likes  love for their children. I realized that. aftl'r :·  
.... :;::  *****  graffiti of the '70s survives: -,I am neither tor nor against apathy.' "  what he likes. Pity the poor intellectual! If he wants to slum he should be allowed ~to  thi~ summer, I would never again take ~n .... many women and men for granted ... thou-*­ 
~;~~ :;:;  Dr. Martin Marty, of the University of Chicago divinity school, recently reported  *****  slum, just like everybody else. On his typewriter ought to be~ pasted the motto:  sands of whom never went here. but ;:;· without whom the place would never hl' it  

·i:::~:~::~~;,;~;:~~~;:;~~~:~::~:!::~!~::~;;:::~::~::~~::::::::~~~~::::::~~r.;~;:~~:;~~:~:~::~:~~~~:~:~:::~!:~::::::~::;:~::~:::~:~:~::::::::::;::::~::~::~!~::::~;::;~:~::~:~:=:~:~~~~~~!=!~::::::::~=z~=:~:::::::::::::::::~::::::::::::::::::::::::j 
Passenger, Nicholson open Cinema '77 Season 
Dom Salemi 
Michelangelo Antonioni's 1974 ftlm, Passenger is the despairing study of an apathetic man, who views life as a tedious and meaningless ritual with death as its only certainty. Antonioni's bleak portrait serves as an anguished comment on the nature of the human condition in the 20th century. His conception of the world, as seen through his protagonist's eyes, is that of an unfeeling place where life and death are inextricably entwined while individual pursuits have little, if anv meaning. 
From the very first shot of the arid and stifling atmosphere of coastal Africa, Antonioni enforces the feeling of desola­tion and sterility. Thedepressing white on white interiors of the hotel, and bare furnishings seem to reflect the individual spirituality of the inhabitants before we have even been introduced to them. 
Jack Nicholson is the occupant of the room. A photographer on assignment, has been in Africa for over a month apparently accomplishing little during his sojourn, while caring even less over his failure to fulfill his assignment. The nature of his "assignment" is never made very clear, because when his neighbor is killed in the adjoining room, Nicholson assumes his identity. 
Nicholson puts the body in his room, then with his friend's passport and appointment book, attempts to start a "new life.'' He shortly finds himself in great danger when the appointments he 
keeps turn out to be meetings with saboteurs, who are using the Nicholson "character" as an intermediary in their dealings with Third World African nations. Nicholson, with the help of a girl he picks up in Europe (Maria Scheider), tries to get by with the impersonation, but he knows he will be found out and eventually killed. 
Yet the photographer seems not to care. Antonioni instills both his characters with the sense that they are performing a meaningless ritual that at present offers him momentary satisfaction. Nicholson travels throughout most of the beautiful capitals of Europe, moving closer and closer to death, but determined to immerse himself as completely as he can in another man's life. 
Throughout the. film very little is explained; but Antonioni captures our interest as we are forced to watch the mystery of another man's life slowly unfold. Nicholson's bewilderment and gradual realization of his situation are beautifully enacted in a series of hauntingly 
personal scenes. The end of Nicholson's "little fling" is an unforgetable scene, that is filmed with a chilling sense of control leaving the viewer frightened and amazed at Antonioni's art. 

-~ -~­

6 the observer Tuesday, September 7, 1976 
Wait for Viking 2 confirmation 
Scientists indicate life on Mars highly likely 
I 
PASADENA. Calif. (AP)-Viking 1 popped," Soffen said. animal and human process on they ran a control experiment to was best to wait for the results of has indicated there is life on Mars, Even scientists here at the Jet earth. The test was run, and the test the results. 
the more complex pyrolitic release and Viking 2 can prove it by finding Propulsion Laboratory who had tracer material was found, but ''There are too many nonbiologi­
probe, which was "supposed to any organic compounds in the soi: thought Martian life was possible scientists wanted to be sure, so cal explanations for the results~" give an unequivocal answer" to theof the Red Planet, Viking's chief were shocked by the test results. was a phrase often heard at JPL. It question of life, said Soffen. 
I 
Economical basics. Powerful slide rules. And, a programmable powerhouse. 
Tl-1200 Tl-12:>0 't'J .. JfOP TI-Iti:>O 

Goes where you go. Adds, sub­Everything the Tl-1200 has-plus. Super slim. Hig•1-styled. Four tunc:-, Super slim. Powerful 4-ke'y tracts. multiplies, divides. Per­Full function memory: add, sub­lions. Pnrcent f.ey. Automatic con­memory. A change-sign key. Press centage, too. Automatic constant. tract, recall or clear with a single · stant. 8-digit display is easy on the the keys just as you would state the Full floating decimal. 8-digit dis­keystroke. Also, a change sign key. eyes. Use it 3 to 5 hours before problem. Fast-charge battery off­play. Replaceable battery. Optional Replaceable battery. Optional recharging. AC adapter/charger ers 3 to 5 hours continuous use. adapter available. adapter available. and carrying case. Adapter and carrying case 
included.

$995* $1295* $2495* $2995* 
SH-5(L\ SH-5L\ Tl B usint•ss Analyst SH-56 

The classic slide rule calculator. Even more power. Three user-ac­Saves working with books of tables Super slide rule that's program­Algebraic keyboard and .sum-of­cessible memories. Least square and charts. Financial and statistical mable. A powerhouse. 10 memo­products capability with single­linear regression. Factorials. Ran­operations are preprogrammed. ries. 100 program steps. 9 l~vels of function keys. Versatile memory: dom numbers. Permutations. Handles: annuity, simple and com­parentheses, 4 levels of suqroutine. add. store. or retrieve data. Set Mean, variance, and standard de­pound interest, sinking fund, amor­AOS (Algebraic Operating System) angles to d~grees or radians. Cal­viation. 20-conversions. And more tization, cash flow, cost control lets you handle complex problems culates to 13-digits, display rounds -plus, everything that can be done and depreciation-and more. AC natural.ly, left-to-right. Battery to 10. Operates on rechargeable on the SR-50A. AC adapter/ char­adapterI charger and carrying case pack, AC adapter/charger and Ap­battery pack. ger included. included. plications Library. 
$5995* $7995* $4995* $10995* 
Special SR-56 $10.00 rebate. 
-~---------------------------------------------------------------------------. 
Texas Instruments will rebate $10.00 of your original SR-56 purchase price when you return this coupon and your SR-56 customer information card post­Name marked no later than October 31,1976. To apply: 
Address 
1. 
Fill out this coupon 


2. 
Fill out special serialized customer information State Zip card inside SR-56 box 


University
3. Return completed coupon and information card to: 
Special Campus Offer Name of SR-56 Reta1ler P.O. Box 1210 SR-56 Serial No. (from back of calculator)
Richardson, Texas 75080 Please allow 30 days for rebate 
L-------------~---------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
TEXAS INSTRUMENTS
·Suggested retail price ,. 197.6 Jexas Instruments lncorporatell .•• , ....... INCORPORATED 
.''•~ ·~ 

I scientist said yesterday. "It's too much, too soon to be The discovery of even the sim­true," Soffen had said when theI plest organic compound -inextric­first biology probe transmitted Carney Clues 
I 
ably assudated with life as we positive results. 
know it -"wnuld do it for us," said "All these lovely results," Sof­t Dr. Gerald Soffen. fen says now, "they sure are First clue to finding the AmericaI Viking 2, sitting on Mars' Utopia different than what we anticipated. tickets hidden somewhere on cam­
plain 4,600 miles from Viking 1, We anticipated it would be kind of pus. Additional clues will be given I will reach out and scoop up some a slow, pokey thing. throughout the week in the Observ­soil Saturday and the results of the "But the cork literally popped er. You will have a chance to guessI organics experiment should be when Levin's experiment the label­the hiding place Friday night at known by Sept. 20. ed release experiment went soaring Carney '76 at 6:30 by placing your
I 
I 
"Nobody ever said it would be up." name in a box which will be on theI easy,'' Soffen said. referring to the The labeled release experiment, stage. If your name is pulled,frustrating positions scientists find developed by Dr. Gilbert Levin, you'll have the opportunity to themselves in after the latest data was designed to detect molecular venturt; a guess as to where theI transmitted by Viking 1. life by injecting a radioactive tracer tickets are.I For the past month, the Viking 1 in some Martian soil, and checking ~ robot has been telling earthmen, in later to see if it had been digested Clue#1I essence, that it has discovered life and released by Martian organ­t ;m Mars. As results from each of isms. To .get to the America tickets,I the life-searching biology experi­The test looks for life that you must meet at the crossroads, ~ ·nents came in, "the corks literally survives through metabolism, an but don't get wet.I I I 


FIGHTING IRISH 
SKI TEAM MEETING 

TONIGHT 7:30pm Room 1-C LaFortune Center ALL ND-SMC SKIERS INVITED 
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Tuesday, September 7'L1..:..:9::..:.7~6____:tc_:_h_:_ce~o=-=b:....:s:.._e=-..:.._r_:.v-=e::_:r;___---'-7
ralks with Prime Minister 
Kissinger's negotiationS with Africa fruitful 
by Kenneth J. Freed Associated Press Writer 

LONDON (AP) -Secretary of State Henry A. Kissinger said yesterday his talks with South African Prime Minister John Vor­ster were very "fruitful," with progress made toward negotiations with black Africa. 
At a news conference in Zurich, Switzerland, marking the end of the three-day talks on the racial conflicts in Africa, the secretary said, "I believe progress was made toward the objectives'' of moving a negotiating process forward with the leaders of black Africa. 
The secretary, who later frlew from Zurich to London for further consultation with British officials, said, "We are moving toward a position where we will be able to point out to the leaders of black Africa the ways by which these objectives" can be achieved. 
He said not all details have been worked out but he expected the process to move even faster now. 
Te next step will be a Kissinger trip to black Arfica, probably early next week. First he intends to return to Washington after consul­tations Monday and Tuesday with British, French and German lead­ers. 
Kissinger said he would send hi" assessments immediately to the black leaders currently holding a summit meeting in Dar Es Salaam, Tanzania. 
Kissinger said there was prog­gess in the two main areas of the Vorster talks-Rhodesia and Nami­bia, which is also known as South-West Africa. 
The Namibia issue concerns negotiation of the independence of that territory from South Africa. Rhodesia involves the transfer of power from the existing white minority government to the coun­try's six million blacks. 
Kissinger said his talks with Vorster resulted in progress on the substantive issues as well as the procedural manner in which the upcoming negotiations should be handled. He did not elaborate, saying it· was inappropriate to comment before his negotiations start with the black Africans. 
Three main objectives of the peace efforts were identified by the secretary as independence, major­ity rule while protecting minority rights, and finally economic prog­ress for all elements involved. 
Kissinger said these goals "are attainable with patience, good will and dedication." The process planned by Kissinger resembles his strategy for the Middle East. A senior U.S. official told newsmen on the flight to London that the secretary will try ·first to solve U.:! easier problem, Namibia, where fewer parties are involved, and the conflicts are not so violent. 
Once there is movement in that area, Kissinger hopes that the momentum will carry over to Rhodesia, a considerably more complex problem. 
Kissinger intends to review the situation with key black leaders in Africa beginning next week. Assuming they reach some under­standing, the secretary would then fly to South Africa. 
Then he is likely to move back and forth between South Africa and black Africa until some specific agreement is reached. 
FOR RENT Roommate needed. Own room. $62.50 mo. plus utilities. 702 Howard. No pohone yet so come by 
-Robert.  
S bedroom house,  furnished,  East  
tlavarre Street,  South  Bend.  Call  

259-6021. 
House for rent. Between Logan Hosp & Nickies Baron 1018 N. Eddy -Partially furnished -excellent condition. Walk to N.D. -5 bedrooms, 2 bathrooms, -very reasonable price -good for group of college kids. Call 233-2613 between 8:00p.m. and $0:00p.m. 
1 SIX BEDROOM HOUSE WITH FIREPLACE FOR RENT. Com­pletely furnished and just 2 blocks from campus at 1034 N. Eddy. No security problem. Listed with Notre Dame Housing Office. Also, 4 bedroom, completely furnished house, real close at 1126 N. Hill. Completely safe, good neighbor­hood. Call 277-3604. Best time, 6 -11 p.m. 
4 bedroom house for rent in NO area. $350 plus deposit. Call Jim Zimmer, (616)445-2471, 7 a.m.­4:30p.m. 
LOST AND FOUND 

Lost at Kubiak's on 811i1, one Cross pen, great personal value-reward. Call Pat 683-0956. 
WANTED 

For sale, refrigerator, large, regu­lation room size. In excellent condition. Contact 233-3721. 
Desperately need 1 Pitt tix. Will pay topS. Charlie 6813. 
Desperately need 1 Pitt and Purdue ticket. Please call Joann-5489. 
Mr. Leo C.· Hansen is hereby announcing he is seeking a Purdue ticket. lnquirte 1650. 
I will pay top dollar for G.A. Pitt tickets. Call Tim 1868. 
Have 2 Pitt tickets to trade for 2 Oregons. Call Anne 1362. 
Bass guitarist, experienced, equip­ment, lights, looking for band. Call Mike, 8622. 
Desperately need 2 tickets to Pitt game. Call Joe 283-1007. 
Roommates needed: 1 oe 2 room­mates to share beautiful 4 bedroom house at 1128 N. Clev-eland Ave. $50 per mo. and util., close to campus. Inquire evenings or weekend. For info call 283-8356, ask for Ed or Terry. 
Desperately need two Purdue tix ­call Russ at 8764. 
Will trade 4 Pitt for 2 Purdue and 2 Oregon -all G.A. Paula 6354. 
Need 3 or 4 roommates to share house on E. Colfax. Low rent ­good neighborhood. 284-5726. 
Part-time, evenings and week­ends. Should have knowledge of cameras and photography. Apply Mon-Fri, 9-5, 'Niles KMart. 
Need one Purdue ticket. Call Jack 3493. 
House for rent: 1011t· N. Eddy (near Logan Hospital) walk to campus. Five bedrooms, partially furnished. 9 mo. lease. Very reasonable rate. Good for college students. Call 233'-21613 between 7 p.m. and 10 
p.m. 
Willing to swap 2 Pitt tix for 2 Alabama or Purdue tix. Call collect 
(314) 227-8673, ask for Jim. 
-~------------­
Need 4 fix for America, preferably padded seats. No ripoffs, please. Call 289-1431. 
Classified Ads 
Babysitter Mon-Fri, 9:00 -1 :30. 
233-8822. 
Please help me find Pitt tickets or my parents will abandoin me! Call 1329. 
Need one Pitt ticket. Call Mary 1280.$ 
Tickets desperately needed!! Any and all games. $$Student and gen. admission. Call John in afternoon 2-4 p.m. 288-2613. 
FOR SALE 

MEXICAN BELTS: Leather, leather snod wityh wooden or leather buckles. All sizes only $10.00 Call Big Money Murf anytime. 234­8858. 
Trumpet -king, silver, excellent cond., with mutes and deluxe case. $150. Call Mike, 8622. 
Ladies 3-speed bicycle excellent condition. $50. 272-7360.. 
Plants tor sale. Reasonable prices. 
920 Notre Dame. 232-5614. 
'64 Dodge pick-up. Runs. Needs work. $200 or best offer. 272­7360. 
3!4'/a'MERCEDES, VERY GOOD CONDITION, RADIALS, STEREO --track, electronic ignition. $1200 or offer. 287-7693. 
For Sale: 2 rugs 10' x 14', dark green: 6 month old albums, must be sold, perfect condition. Call Jim 3333 after 6:30p.m. 
1f&.J/4'i'aVW Bug $265. Call 272-5435 between 3:30 and 5 p.m. 
-For sale: 1973 Chevy Van. interior 
finished. $2000. Call in afternoon 
2-4 288-2613. 
Wanna sit with the Wildcats? Give 'EM A LITTLE Irish grief? Sit on the Northwestern side Sept. 25 and pass a few up. For fix call Mary 1825. 
Notices 

First meeting Gay Community of ·Notre Dame September 9. Informa­tion P.O. Box 206 Notre Dame. 
Interested in 1 0-speeds? Help is needed to organize a club at ND-SMC. Call Russ. 288-5192. 
Morrissey Loan Fund. $208$150. One day wait. 1 percent interest. Due in 30 days. Lafortune base­ment, m8f, 11:15 8 12';15. 
Doc Pierces Saloon & Restaurant is hiring full or part-time now. Bartenders, waiters, waitresses, busboys. Will schedule around academic commitments.. Apply in person between 2 and 4 p.m. at 120 North Main Street, Mishawaka. Phone 25587737. An Equal Opportu 
nity  employer.  
Accurate, fast typing.  Mrs. Donoho  
232-0746.  

SKI ASPEN. Xmas break. Low low group rates. More info call in afternoons 2-4, John 288-2613. 
BEER BEER BEER For the best buys on kegs and cases call Chip 288-7878. 
personals Congratulations to the gimpy glock player in the Oreo cookie shoes! Roomie To Julie-Woolie and her Jewish mother Csgt.) Thanks for a great weekend! The Commuter 
Desperately need 4 Pitt tickets. Call CoHeen 4-5170. 
I need a date. Call Priscilla-5140. 
Lost: Used Underwear. Call Bill Lloyd Stanford Hall. 
LOST: Set of keys on NO football key chain -sometime Friday between Business Building and LaFortune: Reward. Call Cole at 288-0088. 
Rewar(l: Will pay bigS to finder of a pair of clear frame glasses with 
Thomas Walrath 5-76 printed on · inside frame. LOst in vicinity of the 
bars Friday night. If found please 
contact Tom at 288-0088. 
BOOK EXCHANGE SELLERS MAY PICK UP MONEY AND UNSOLD BOOKS. 
Wednesday---Sept. 8 Thursday-----Sept. 9 from 6:30 9:30pm. 
2nd Floor LaFortune 
!CINEMA 77 PRESENTS Michaelangelo Antonioni'~ 
THE PASSENGER 
starring 
Jack Nicholson& Maria Schnieder 
Engineering Auditorium Admission $1.00 Tuesday & Wednesday Sept. 7,8 
7:30 & 1O:OOpm 
PATRON CARDS ON SALE AT FILM FOR $5 
GOOD FOR ALL TEN FILMS 
Tile Fireworks .Festlwall 
muall:, food, refr•hmenta and fireworks 
Frldey September 10-rock and roll featuring 
BROWNSVILLE STATION 
IUid the electric blues of 

LUTHER ALLISON a~d MAGI 
Saturday September 11 Sundlly September 12 rock from Detroit country & western _ 
FRIJID PINK NARVEL FELTS 
and formerly o' Ides of March and South Bend's own 
Jim Peterik So1t~ Sltore aad Fiaals of Battle of Tale hads 
· 7:00 p.m. daily! 
llhUJ Flreworls OISPIIJ CIMI IBBSl/SIUIIIB/IetreShllnts 
Tickets: $7.50 for three day pass; $4.00 for friday and Sunday individual day tickets; $3.00 for Saturdl.)' tickets and now on sale at the followins River City Review Ticket' Outlets: Just For The Record (Mishawaka), Boogie Records (Mishawaka). Record Joint (Niles). Suspended Chord (Elkhart & Goshen), Notre Dame Student Unicn. Pandora's (South Bend). Jennifer's (Sc:ottsdale Mall), World of Sound (Plymouth) and Cripe's Home Entertainment Ce•ter (Nappannee). Stay tun~ to WRBR for further details. 
Outdoors at Wander Conservation Club 13040 Day Road·Mishawaka 
Directions from South Bend: Edison Rd. East to dead-end at Grape Rd. North I block to Day Road. Take Day Road East 4 miles. Gates open 4:00 p.m. friday. 11:00 a.m. Saturday and Sunday. . · 


the observer Tuesday, September 7, 1976 
New SMC athletic facility to be completed in March 
by Debbie Dahrllng SMC Sports Editor 

Students returning to St. Mary's this fall were greeted by a long-aw­aited addition to the campus. The arriving students were able to see the first completed stages of the new athletic facility being built north of McCandless hall. 
The ground-breaking ceremonies were held on June 22, 1976, and considerable construction has tak­en place in the past two and a half months. The construction work is on a schedule and running very smoothly with an expected comple­tion date of March, 1977. Two weeks ago construction began on the second level with the pouring of concrete for the locker room. 
,. 
Cheerleaders ready for season 
by Chuck Dressman 

In addition to an explosive football matchup, this Saturday's Notre Dame-Pittsburgh game fea­tures the debut of one of America's most highly rated cheerleading squads. This year's version of the 1976-1977 Fighting Irish squad has been practicing between 15-20 hours w~ekly in hopes of maintain­ing or improving last year's num­ber two ranking. 
The members of this year's Irish rooters are: Becky Bracken, Candy O'Connor, Patty Kulik, Chele Nas­hart, Michelle Gilson, Sue Olin, Joya Defoor, Hank Carrico, Pat Bergin, Doug Stevens, Jim Ingram, Jim Clouse,· Dave Schlaefer and leprachaun Joe Cosgrove. 
While the cheerleaders may deserve every bit of their national acclaim, senior Becky Bracken, captain of this year's squad, cau-· tions the crowd not to expect anything overly fancy this Satur­day. "We do plan to introduce new novelty stunts and mounts which are more spontaneous and hopeful­ly will generate greater crowd excitement. But we've only been practicing for two weeks,'' she added. "It will be mainly the basics for Pitt." 
r: ~-~~~~·.,... 
itf' 

... 
The tri-Ievel facility will house the athletic offices, one basketball court, two tennis courts (which can also be used as volleyball courts), and two racquetball courts. A 60' x 120' addition which will house facilities for fencing, gymnastics and dancing has been added to the original plans. This multi-purpose area will be located on the first level with the remaining athletic facilities on the second and third levels. 
Many new innovations, such as synthetic flooring have been incor­porated into the facility. "We looked at many schools throughout the Midwest trying to find the most suitable flooring," said Stevie We­rnig, Assistant to the Dean of Student Affairs. According to Wernig, this new synthetic flooring form a Pep Club this year. For all There can be no denying that a those interested there will be acheerleader is in a glamorous meeting at LaFortune this Wednes­position at Notre Dame. Bracken is day evening at 8:00.
quick, however, to play down this aspect of cheering. "I really don't think about the national expo­Sailing club wins sure," she commented. "If you dwell on that too long, you 'II either 
The sailing club got off to a brisk have a big head or get scared to start this season with. a first placedeath. Our only purpose for being finish in the Gino Ponzini 470 

down on the field is to get the Regatta held in Madison, Wiscon­crowd to cheer; that is my only sin. Skippering for Notre Dame concern." 
was Paul Makielski who took a firstBracken feels that there have place in the A-division and Johnbeen some definite advantages to Goodill who placed a close secondbeing a cheerleader. She lists in the B-division. The series of 14gaining a sense of confidence, races was held in excellent sailingmeeting people, and travel among weather with the wind blowing at them: 25 knots. Wisconsin placed second But she also noted some disad­and Purdue finished third in the vantages, the foremost of these field of seven.

being the stereotype that most people place on cheerleaders. "It's leer meeting to very difficult to shake that pre-con­ceived image that many people 
be held today

have about us," Bracken stated. "To me, the purpose of cheerlead­The first hockey meeting of the ing is merely to lead the crowd in year will be held on Tuesday, cheers not to flaunt yourself or to September 7 at 4:00 p.m. in the be in the limelight. Ideally I would ACC auditorium. Anyone interest-like to see this image changed, yet ed in trying out should report. realistically, I don't believe such a Physicals are to be taken on radical change could occur in one Wednesday, September 8 at 8:00 year." p.m. in the ACC. 
In with cheerlead­
conjunction Seahawks in exchange for an team. . ......................... ing, an attempt will be made to Chip Spina·===============================~====================================================================================~============::=====================================================================·=·=~: 
Boring Baseball 
,·~============================~====================================================================================================================================================== High and Inside· 
A casual fan of the national pastime in all likelihood views the current baseball season with about as much excitement as he would a bicentenial celebration on July 5. The noticeable lack of knock-down, drag-out pennant races (until rece­ntly) and the absence of any superstar statistical performances has dampened the enthusiasm for the sport of the boys of summer. But, oh joy, all is not lost, for beneath the dull exterior, baseball events on and off the field have shown a true sportaholic that the game still has some spark of brilliance from the yesterdays of ~rnie Banks and Hank Aaron. For mstance: 
Bowie's Follies took to the stage as that acknowledged intellectual high priest of baseball, Bowie Kuhn stumbled through more dec­isions than a flock of Jerry Fords could. The cancellation of Charlie Finley's firesale cost the Red Sox a run for the pennant and Charlie a bundle of cash. But even worse, old Bowie ruled that the junior circuit's designated sitter (sic) rule would be used for both the National and American League teams in the World Series. This struck another blow at us traditionalists who love the game as it should be played. Hopefully, though, the commish is a multipurpose surface in contr­ast to the traditional wood flooring used in most basketball courts. This flooring also requires less maintenance and upkeep than wo­od. 
Another new and different feat­ure is the type of material to be used for the outside walls of the building. The walls will be constructed of a translucent mater­ial that allows heat and light to pass through, yet cannot be seen throu­gh. This will conserve energy by decreasing the o~puts from the heating and lighting systems. However, the building will be air conditioned during warm weather. 
In addition to the indoor facilities there will be a softball diamond and field hockey field just north of the new building. 

the NL in quality players or teams, baseball's lesser league figured it could go one, no make that two better by expanding for next seas­on into Seattle (Mariners) and Toronto (Blue Jays). With nickna­mes like that they're sure bets to lose 100 games each. And as a result, look for your favorite AL team to lose some key players in this winters expansion draft. The 
NLwisely sat pat. 
Several individuals have popp­ed up out of the pack at different times this year and deserve menti­on. Ray Burris of the we-haven't-­won-a-pennant-in-31-years-Cubs has gone from 3-10 to 13-12 over the past two months (no small feat). To offset this surge, Randy JOnes 'of the Padres has slipped from a Cy Young shoo-in 16-4 to a more Padre-ish 20-11. Dave (K for striKeout) Kingman was taking a run at Hack Wilson's home run record with 32 by July 4, then broke his hand while performing with his usual fielding prowess. 
Jerry Kapstein, players' agent, had better not find himtlelf alone with a team owner without a gun after representing 57 players exer­cising their options and going the Hunter-Messersmith route. One result may have been the long awaited Major League Players Construction is under way on St. The building is scheduled to be Mary's new athletic complex. completed by next March. 
*Observer 

Sports 
Former Irish gridders cut 
Veteran quarterback Terry 
Hanratty was cut by the Pittsburgh 
Steelers and signal caller Bill 
Munson sent to from the Detroit 
Lions to the Seattle Seahawks MOnday as National Football Lea­gue teams continued to shape their 
rosters for the upcoming season. Hanratty, a member of the two-time Super Bowl champions · since 1969, had been relegated to stand by service in the past few seasons. He played only one game in 1976 and only briefly in three of the Stee\ers' seven preseason ga­mes this year. He was one of five Pittsburgh players cut. Also trimmed were wide receiver Freddie Douglas, linebackers Charles Hung and Jim Rosecrans, and defensive end Ed McAleney. Munson was shipped to the 
the true character of this season in the persons of Mark "The Bird" Fidrych and Bill Veeck (as in wreck). While almost singlehand­edly turning around the Detroit Tigers, the 21 year old Fidrych may receive a Nobel Peace Prize for using his on-field antics to quiet turbulent Detroit when Mayor Col­eman Young couldn't. Meanwhile, Bill Veeck made the Chisox look like the sandlot team they play like by outfitting them in Bermuda shorts during the summer. The weather must have been hot, because their play sure wasn't. 
And one can't overlook the departed. Thus, we pay homage to the brave leaders wlio helped cause J,uly unemployment figures to eli­mb--1975 Manager of the Year Darrell Johnson of the Bosox and Dick Williams of the ever rebuildi­ng never winning Angels Look for them to soon be joined by Karl Kuehl (who?) of Montreal and ancient Bill Rigney of the Giants. 
Finally, my fearless if not prem­ature playoff predictions. Cincinn­ati, home of Sparky Anderson's 
. overpaid, overfed, overpraised pr­ima donnas will drop three of four to Danny Ozark's hungry Phillfes. The Yankees, meanwhile will retu­rn the World Series to the remode­led House That Ruth Built, crunch-
undisclosed future draft choice in a deal that surprised Seattle coach 
Jack Patera. "I didn't think 
someone of his caliber would be 
made available to us," he said. It ws a day in which big names joined small in the ranks of the 
traded or cut. The comeback 
careers of running backs Duane Thomas and Ron Johnson appare­ntly ended when they were waived by the Dallas cowboys; receiver Jack Snow, who gained 6,612 yards in 11 years, was waived by the Los Angeles Rams; the 'Chicago Boars dropped wide receiver Bob Grim; the San Diego Chargers picked up placekicker Toni Fritsch then cut wide receiver Dwight McDonald and safety Maurice Tyler. Among the Minnesota Vikings cut was veteran running back Dave Osborn, who had gained more than 4,000 yards in 11 years with the 
Patti Kulik, a Notre Dame, junior up to the regular cheering squad will be back practicing law for next Agreement which modified the ing KC in three. And for the Cubs from Ft. Monroe, VA, has moved after serving as an alternate last season. reserve clause. and all others in the same boat, it year. With the AI unable to match But history will fittingly record will be wait 'til next year. 



