------~-----------­


server 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's Thursday, October 7, 1976
Vol. XI, No. 28 

Foreign policy subject of debates as Ford, Carter meet in Round 2 
SAN FRANCISCO (AP) -President been a two-way exercise. beneficial between the candidates than dur­
ford and Jimmy Carter argued to the United States. ing their first encounter in Phila­foreign and defense policies Wed­Carter slapped. too. at Secretary delphia two weeks ago. nesday night. the President insist­of State Henry A. Kissinger who, Ford, by virtue of a successful ing there can be no debate about he said. has operated as "the flip of a coin. had the last word. the "experience and results" he President of this country" in "As we have seen tonight, for.:ign has achieved. Carter contending foreign affairs. policy and defense policy are that America's strength. respect "Mr. Ford and Mr. Kissinger difficult and complex issues, " he and moral stance have faltered have continued on with the policies said. "We can debate methods. we under the Republicans. and failures of Richard Nixon," can debate one decision or another. 
The Democratic presidential 
Carter said. "Even the ican but there are two things which we nominee accused Ford of abdicating cannot be debated -experience and foreign rolicy control to his secre­results.·· 
tary of state, and said at one point Ford said he offers both. "Amer­
that Ford has "always shown a ica is strong. America is free. weakness in yielding to pressure" America is respected ... America is from foreign powers. at peace with freedom." 
Ford countered that he had Carter repeatedly criticized the negotiated foreign policy success­administration for a course he said fully, from a position of strength wa at odds with traditional The President als0 used the these issue'>: that would be undercut by defense american values. He said that was televised debate~ forum to disclose -Carter said the United Statco, spending reductions Carter has shown sharply by administration that Soviet Foreign Minister And­has become "the arm., merchant of advocated. handling of the Arab boycott rei Gromyko had indicated the thw hole world ... He said he wouldplatform has criticized the lack ofOn two points. Ford showed the against companies dealing with Soviet Union is interested "in tf\' to make the nation the world's
leadership in Mr. Ford." · 

political power that lies with the Israel and in some cases against narrowing the differences" to seck b~cadbaskcdt inMead.
Carter was referring to language

incumbent: he disclosed that the firms with Jewish directors. progress in the stalemated SALT II -Both Ford and Carter \'Oiced
inserted in the platform by backers 

Soviet Union has signaled readi­He said it is ··a disgrace that so negotiations on strategic nuclear commitment to seeking normaliza­
of Ronald Reagan, who opposed

ness to narrow differences and far Mr. Ford's administration has arms. tion of relations with Communist
Ford for the Republican presiden­blocked the positive legislation·· Ford said such an agreement China, but not at the expense oftial nomination. 

that would force disclosure of must be reached by Oct. 3. 1977. to ·Taiwan.
The Democratic candidate said companies that have heeded the avoiri "an all-out nuclear arms -Carter was critical of a foreignFord and Kissinger have func­

boycott. and thus would prevent it race. policy he said is carried out behindtioned in secret. excluding the 
from continuing. Carter countered sardonically closed doors. He said many deci­American people from the shaping Ford said Carter was inaccurate that Ford has been president fo.r sions and commitments made inof foreigh policy. Carter said that on that subject. He said he was the two years and there has been no secret often have been disclosedFord and Kissinger would have first President to act against the progress toward a new strategic later "to our embarrassment."
started another Vietnam in Angola. 

Arab practice. and announced that arms limitation agreement. -Ford was asked if he had denied had they not been stayed by public the Commerce Department will Otherwise. the debate was that the Russians usc Easternoutcry. 
publicly list the companies involved essentially a review of the positions Europe as part of their sphere ofRe~ponding to a question that on Thursday. "The Congress failed and criticisms both men have influence. He replied that such shape "a realistic and sound listed the foreign policy successes 
to do it and we intend to do it." he sounded before. nations as Yugoslavia. Romania compromise" for a new agreement of the past two years Carter said: 
said. The candidates also touched on (continued on page 4)
to limit strategic nuclear weapons. "I think the Republican admini­and he said that on Thursday the stration has been almost all style administration will announce the and spectacular. and not sub­names of companies that have stance." He said that as President. 

Walsh angry at 'private dealing' 
participated in the Arab boycott he would bring openness and 
against Israel. morality to American policy. 

by Kate Flynn
Again and~ again. Carter said At the outset. Carter said "our 

Staff Reporter 
Ford has failed to provide leader­country is not strong any more, 
ship: Ford repeatedly said Carter we're not respected any more." 

To assure themselves of a
apparently did not know the facts. But later in the debate. he said 

single room in the annual process
Each accused the other of misstate­"militarily. we are as strong as any 

of room picks. upperclassmen in
ments. nati0n on earth." 

recent years have invited under-
Carter said the administration The 90-minute match in the old. 

classmen to share a quad. ~ 
has been outbargaincd by the ornate Palace of tine Arts was 

The upperclassman. by virtue of
Soviet Union: Ford said detente has sharper in tone, with more crossfire his higher room pick due to seniority,· may offer a larger or perhaps better-situated suite to underclassmen with lower lottery picks. The underclassmen. in turn. consent to splitting the suite into a 

Budget committee to speak 

before the Faculty Senate 

single and a triple. Though all the members of the 
by Peggy Schumaker sional areas. They are elected for quad may find this a satisfactory Staff Reporter three year terms enabling a one arrangement. there are those hall third turnover each year. residents who would rather that The Faculty Senate will meet Faculty Senate meetings are such "private dealing" not trans­
tonight at 7:30p.m. in Room 202 of held monthly and are open to all pire. 

the Center for Continuing Educati­interested persons. Some Walsh residents. in par­on. ticular. protest the quad break-ups Aside from the usual treasurer's and are in the process of forming a and chairman's report there will oe SMC frosh class committee to investigate more a report by the Executive Committ­suitable procedures for room-picks. ee. This committee meets with the to hold elections Those most unhappy about the top administrators of the University quad-splitting procedure are Walsh to discuss topics considered impor­The primary elections for St. sophomores anrl iuniors who think tant for the governing of Notre Mary's freshman class officers and they are forfeiting their chance for Dame. off-campus Student Assembly rep­a "good quad" to underclassmen. 
The Budget Priorities Committee, resentatives are being held today. They claim, that in permitting an found. the committee will present A few quad and triple splittings Students may vote in the lobby of underclassman to be taken vnder the proposal to either the hall occur in othcf halls. cspccialy in
a branch of the Executive Commit­tee which researches priorities for LeMans Hall from 10 a.m. until the wing of upperclassmen. who council or the hallresidents for a the older ones like Alumni. Lyons. 
budget allocations rather than act­4:30 p.m. and in the dining hall can easily get a quad, their own vote in an ~effort to institute a Morrissey. and Dillon. all of which from 4:30p.m. until 6 p.m. lottery number is devalued. change before the May lottery. The house m~ny adjoining rooms. RA 's
ual figures for allocations, will also 

One Walsh resident also claimed objective is to find an alternative at these halls report that no action
report. There are seven tickets running that quad-splitting forces four strict .enough to be effective and yet has been taken against the few thatfor freshman class officers. TheyVerbal reports on course and friends to break up for Jack of desirable to a vast majority. ac­do. however.

are headed by: Carrie Britt, Stephteacher evaluations and grade infl­

available suites. cording to committee members. Rectors say residents are per­Hof. Anne Duffy, Kim Kelly.
ation will be presented with written The Walsh committee, compris­Eighty seniors live in Walsh. fectly legal in splitting quads asKathy McGrath, Debbie Roberts,reports to follow.. in a few weeks. 

ed of fifteen students, co-chaired which houses only thirty-two offic­long as doors between the roomsand Lucia (Pia) Trigiani. 
Other topics to be discussed will be by Virginia Dwyer and Dianne ial singles. According to hall pres­are not blocked off. This is athe AAUP statement on Academic 

Mary Ann Stolze, vice-president Lapeyre, plans tQ examine other ident Kathy Kane. this is the first university law.
Freedom and a proposal from the of Student Affairs, said that the two hall lottery policies in an effort to time Walsh has faced such an According to Morrissey rectorThird World Relief Fund. tickets receiving the most votes will formulate a possible alternative to uneven class distribution. She said assistant Timothy Collins the prac­
The Faculty Senate is composed compete in a runoff election, but if the quad-splitting system the com­
the committee wants to alieviate tice is not encouraged in Morris­of SO members elected on a one slate receives SO plus one mittee also plans to review sugges­the undesirable tension among sey. however. Single room rates representative basis from each of percent of the vote in this election it tions from Walsh residents. residents which is coused by room­are charged to residents there who their respective colleges or profes-will be declared the overall winner. If a suitable alternative can be picks. split a quad and inherit the single. 




the observer Thursday, October 7, 1976 Swine flu 
~--News Briefs--........ 

t==:::=::=:::=::=====:::=::=:::=::=:::=::==========National 
Patty unrepentant 
SAN FRANCISCO -Arguing Particia Hearst remains unrepentant, the heiress' prosecutor went into court yesterday to oppose bail and a new trial for !he convicted bank robber. U.S. Atty. James Browmng said not only does the 'one-time kidnap victim "fail to acknowledge her guilt but. . .she believes that her conviction was unjustly obtained by the government." 


lcohol and impotence 
BOSTON-Medical researchers say they have found the first direct evidence in non-alcoholic males that drinking alcohol reduces the production of testosterone -the hormone that gives men masculine characteristics. It has long been known that men may be relatively impotent after drinking. and alcoholics completely impotent -even after they stop drinking. 
1 pm 
4 pm 
l30 pm 5pm 
7,<J& 
11 pm 
7:30pm 
7:30pm 


On Campus Today_____,_. 
forum, northern indiana older adults legislative forum, stepan center 
seminar, "resonance raman spectroscopy with tunable lasers" by dr. gilbert h.k. hond, nd., sponsored by radiation laboratory, conference room, radiation re­search building 
meeting, junior class open discussion, Iafortune theatre 
women's conditioning program, for notre dame women, rockne building 
film, "longest yard", sponsored by student union, engineering aud. 
reading, by steve katz., n.d., reading of recent short fiction, sponsored by juggler, Iafortune theatre 
meeting, faculty senate, room 202, cce 
7:.30 pm. lecture, "the world of german expressioni;m" by prof. bruno schlesinger, smc, n.d. art gallery 
8pm concert, faculty keyboard recital with five steinways on stage, sponsored by music department. little theatre 
8pm play, ..'heartbreak h.ouse", o'laughlin aud., smc 

Women forming rugby team 

The Women'sRugby team is now forming. Anyone interested in becoming a member of the team or requesting information, call Rhon­da Newsoll\e at 277-3114. 
1he Ob-.•nt•r" publ"bed Mondav through I nddy and Wt:>t:>klv dunng the summt>r "'~"on, t'X(l'pt dur'rng tbt:> exdrn and varatron pt:>r!O(h The Qb,ervt>r r~ published by 'tudt>nts of the UnrVt'r"t\' of Notre Dame and St Mary·' Col\egP Subscrrption' may be purrha~t:>d for $20 per yt>ar ($10 pt:'r spmester) from. ThP Ob~er­ver, Box Q. NotrP Dame. Indiana 46556 Second clas~ postagP pard, NotrP DamP, Indiana 465'i6 
The Ob-;erver rs a membPr of the Assocrated Press All reproductron 





L:h;~~.,~~:::~:,~l 
Asst. Night Edi•or: Paul 
Schappler, Giacomo D'Aurora 
layout Staff: Denise Persinger 
Steve Odland, Barry Tillis, Joe 
Wheaton, Roseanne Wallace, 
Leigh Turakan, Joe Bauer, 
and Drew Bauer leading the 
food fighters. 
Features layout: Chris Smith 
Sports layout: Paul Stevenson 
Typists: Gwen Coleman, Su­
san Shellenburger, Kathy Eg­
bert, Stephanie Urillo 
E.M.T.: Morey Blinder 
FriendotE.M.T.: Fred Herbst 
Day Editor: Mary Mungovan 
Copy Reader: Barb Langhenry 
Don Reimer 
J 

Vaccinations will be given 
by Kathleen Horgan Staff Reporter 
Dates for swine flu vaccination 
shots to be given at St. Mary's and 
Notre Dame will probably be 
announced early next week. The 
colds that seem to be going around 
SMC-ND campuses are said to hav­
e no relation to the swine flu. 
Officials hope to have the innocu­Iation program completed by mid­November, well before the onset of the flu season. Officials also stated that they anticipate problems with persons suffering side effects from the shots. 
In an article in the South Bend Tribune Dr. William McCraley of the county Health Department said he is particularly worried about the 18-25 age group and the persons allergic to eggs. Most of the reactions to the shots in a prelimi­nary test run were in the 18-25 age group, he explained. Also, the 200 unit vaccine dose sometimes is not sufficient for the younger age group. 
Epidemic may never materialize 
Dr. McCraley admitted that a swine flu epidemic may never materialize but he indicated that he favored the program anyway. He said the illness could be wide­spread overnight. People have no natural protection from this partie· ular strain. 
Swine flu is a highly infectious strain of flu which poses a potential 
FAST 
TYPEWRITER J
REPAIR 
l:l:l:ffl·' ' 
2915 Mishawaka Ave. 
Uhe 

fPit~janzmer 
CREATIVE HAIR DESIGN FOR THE SEXES 
RElAXING ATMOSPHERE 
FREE HAIR ANALYSIS RK RETAIL CENTER 

1637 LWW 
' So. Bend 

-.> 232-6622 
Appt. only.

-~ :__·,-­
study showed that swine flu has an attack rate of 100 percent. 
It is thought to be similar to the strain that killed 500,000 Ameri­cans in 1918-19. Dr. Jonas Salk, developer of the Salk Polio Vaccine recently said in San Diego that public fears over swine flu shots are groundless. 
threat to millions of Americans. A ally the same as other types of flu. 
Symptons of swine flu are basic-
HELD OVER! 

INGMAR BEP.GMAN'S "FACE TO FACE" 
-----lta"'"9----­
LIV ULLMANN iR 
Weekdays 
6 :45-9 :15 Sat. & Sun 1:45-4:15 6:45-9:15 
. 



THE HEIDLEBURG INN 
US 31 IN NILES MICH. PHONE 683-6515 
*ANNOUNCES BIG SAVINGS* ON 

PIZZA & PITCHER NITES 
EVERY TUESDAY & THURSDAY 

REDUCED PRICES 
9pm-lam' 

Try us for lunch Daily 11:am-1am Take the Quickie to 
Dinner th~ HeidleburgSunday 11:am-Midnite 
this Fri. & Sat. 
The swine flu vaccination shots are said to give milder side effects than flu s~ots of the past.· Of the thousands of people who volunteer­ed for the shots in field tests, less than two percent had side effects. The only side effects expected at this point are a sore arm for a few days and in some cases a slight 
fever. 

f 




WIND&FffiE 

and Special guest THE EMOTIONS 
Friday Oct. 15 8:00 PM Notre Dame ACC 
Tickets $6.50 Main floor and all padded seats 
5.50 Bleachers 
On Sale now at: ACC Box office, Robertson's, St. Joseph Bank and Branches, First Bank' (Main Branch only), The Elkhart Truth, Just For The Record (1 00 Center), Suspended Cord (Elkhart), The Record Joint (Niles), Boogie Records (Mishawaka). 
and ~otre Dame Student Union 

• • Pizza King 
We invite you to try our delicious 
pizza, hot sandwiches and tasty salads. BEER Special Monday nights. 
Pitchers of Budweiser $1.50 Michelob $1.75 Tues. nite after 4pm--$1.00 off 
on all large pizzas. 

'! 

~hursdayLOctober~7L,~19~7~6______~t~h=~e~o~b~s~e~rv~e~r____~3 



Radiation lab expan~s with addition 
saturday-after classes & LSAT
ND law schooI sponsors program* *
pre-springsteenlf. HAPPY HOUR 3-6 BEERS 5 for $1. _ • 
about street-law for HS students ••••••••••••••••••••· 
by Drew J. Bauer Staff Reporter 

Those hard-hat warnings and that oile of mud bv the south side of the Radiation Research Building are there for a reason. A $100,000 underground vault ts being con­:>tructed to house a second Van de Graff generator. 
The 3 million volt Van de ~~aff generator is part of the one mtlhon dollars worth of equiment that the 
U.S. Energy and Development Administration (ERDA), which runs the lab, is transferring to Notre Dame from Carnegie-Mellon University at Pittsburgh. 
"It will provide for a better exchange of id~as," said Dr. Neta 


The Radiation Building is undergoing expansion to additional equipment from the dispanded CMU lab in Pittsburgh. (photo by Paul Clevenger) 
by Marian ffiicny Staff Reporter 

The facultv and advanced law students of the Kresge Law School of Notre Dame have organized a pilot program to expose South Bend high school students to "street law." 
According to program supervisor Dr. Charles Crutchfield. assistant professor of law, the purpose of the "street law" program is to "train law students to teach law in a practical sense to high school students." He added. "It's really designed to give high school stu­dents a practical course--not to make lawyers out of them--but to inform them of their rights and to titter down to the family level." 
Emphasis is areas such as crilr­inal. consumer. family. housing individual rights. and environment­al law will be offered by the program. Its goal is to develop a more positive attitude on the students' part as citizens who must deal with the law and its methods of enforcement. Additional bene­fits would be a decrease in anti­social behavior and an exposure to possible vocations within the legal profession. 
Crutchfield explained that the pilot program was originated in 

Washington, D.C., by the George­
town University Law Center. It is 
now taught in-all 15 District of Columbia schools and has been expanded to a number of adult and juvenile correctional institutions where students receive clinical credit for their work. 
The South Bend program in­volves four area schools: John Adams, Washington. St. Joseph and the Whitney M. Young, Jr. Street Academy. 
A unit approach is used bv law student teams at Adan• . a11d Washington where the law subjects arc included within the structure of a previously established class. An introduction to law has been insert­ed into a Washington Career Ca~ict class. Criminal law sections have been introduced to Washington and Adam~ American Government classes. Crutchfield noted that the new subject matter "is not l'ltcndcd to substitute for any part of the course. We trv to work in those parts of the subject v. itt. the law unit as requested by the school." The unit is restricted to a total of nine teaching days under the pilot program. 
At St. Joseph and the Street Ac tdemy. the program has set up elective courses distinct from pre­exi~tin:;: ones. These electives are tau~-o ht by two and three student 
t. 'IllS 

who came with the equipment from 
the CMU lab. "ERDA decided to 
combine the two efforts and since 
Notre Dame had the larger facility, 
it made sense that we should be the 
one to move, especially_ when you remember that ERDA owns this building while at CMU the univer­sity owned the lab." 
The second Van de Graff genera­tor will allow the lab "to examine 
individual and chemical reactions
that are present for a millionth of a 
second or even less." according to 
Lab Director Robert. Schuler. He 
added that it would be "used for 
very special experiments that we 
would not have been able to do with 
our two million generator that we 
have now.'' 
Notre Dame has been involved 
with ERDA and its predecessor the ~ Atomic Energy Council since 1946 * when Prof. Milton Burton made""'­arrangements with it to do experi-~ m~~tat research..T~e present 2:3 * 
mtlhon dollar bUtldmg was bUtlt ""'-· · with ERDA funds and completed in ~ e 1/f' 
1963. ERDA pays the university *sento r ar*
1.75 million dollars towards the ""'-'"'­
annual lab budget. The land that ~ 1/f' the building is located on is • 
* 
leased by Notre Dame to the ERDA ...&... friday (no happy hour) Special 10-} '"'­for SO years, after which the ~ • d d · k . 50 ~ building becomes the property of * mtxe rtn S. •
* * 
The pilot program involves 21 second and third year law students who meet for a weekly two-hour seminar to go over the sections they will cover in their respective classes. They use a "street law" text and a teaching manual to acquaint them with knowledge of the applicable law and effective instruction techniques. 
The program has already begun at the Street Academy and St. Joseph and will start next week at Adams and Washington. "So far. the program has gotten good billing." Crutchticld stated. "It's off to a good start.'' 
The program is funded by a $25,0('() grant from the Lillv En­dowment: Inc. of lndianap~1lis. Additional financial support ·comes from the Public Welfare Founda­tion of Washington D. C. and the Cummins Engine Foundation of Columbus . Ind. 
First junior class meeting today 
There will be an open junior class meeting today at 4:30p.m. in the LaFortune auditorium, first floor. Finances and future plans will be presented and opened for discus­sion. This will be the first of bi-weekly class meetings and will last 20-30 minutes. 




ARNING 
Any Senior who has NOT PAID the balance due on the California Trip by Friday, October 8 will LOSE their place on the trip AND th~ir $50.00 deposit. The payments are being collected from 1-5pm in LaFortune Ballroom & 168 LeMans 
the university. 
"Basically the university oper­ates the lab for the ERDA." said Schuler. 
"It's a real advantage to Notre Dame that this laboratory is located here," said Dean of Science Ber­nard Waldman. "Without these graduate programs, the only thing we would be a four year college. 
You have to be recognized.''
********************
* • -senior bar presents a week of. s * 
'"'­

""'­
~ 
......_ 
~ 
• ""'­
~ 
'"'­
~ peCJaiS every wed. & fri.--dance to the diSCO ~ sounds of TONY AMENTA and '"'-~ ART MARGIOTTA * 
1 k
thursday--ive entertainment every wee * ~ 9:30-12:30 this week: •
. . '"'­
musiC provtded by DAVE SHAHEEN ::: 
~ 

and GREG MANDOLINl *

b '"'­
"Notre Dame is the only university with a radiation chemistry research program," Waldman added. 
· Schuler said that the vault and the installation of the second 
1generatorshould have been com pie-ted by Spetember l. He now feels that the new additiOn shoud be open by January. 

A very informal gathering of good people, at Bulla Shed, the Campus Ministry Activities Cente·r, the little green house at the comer of Bulla Rd. and Juniper (in the middle of the block, across from Grace Tower and the Ubrary). 
Everyone welcome -new students especially! 

Former teacher: media reports about South Africa inaccurate 
according to Minter, saiCt people period.
by Bob Varettoni 
.StaffReporter were not receiving adequate health Minter added the new govern­care under the new Mozambique ment "gives a high priority to basic Americans should be more skep­government. production of foodstuffs. Everyone tical of news releases from South grows food for themselves. Armies
Minter said under Frelimo, the Africa, according to Dr. William leadership party in Mozambique, grow food, schools grow food." Minter, a former teacher in a Minter has written several books
health care had actually improved.
Mozambique secondary school. about the development of African
"Before independence," he noted, 
Minter last night addressed 30 nations. He is also a correspondent
''there were 400 doctors in Mo­people in the Area Sutdies Reading zambique, 300 in the capital city. for the African News Service. Room of the Memorial Library. In a They served first and foremost His lecture was the third part of 
lecture entitled "The Mozambique those who could pay the most for the South African symposium Revoltion One Year After Indepen­medical services." sponsored by the Program of dence", he said news sources African Studies and the Program "Now," Minter said, "doctors of Black Studies. In the future the
under the white regimes in Rho­are distributed around the country symposium will include two filmsdesia and South Africa had not in terms of need rather than in on South Africa and a lecture aboutgiven Americans a true picture of terms of where they would get the African literature.
the situation in Mozambique. 
Mozambique, on the southeast most income." He added, "In ·r·-"'!""'-----------­


·a·rm

coast of Africa, boarders both Rhodesia and South Africa. When Portugal decided to free its African territories, Mozambique became  some districts more. people have ' been vaccinated than what the , _Portuguese thought the entire pop­ulation of the district was."  
independent on June 25, 1975. At  Minter said the Mozambique the  
,Dr. William Minter, a former teacher in Mozambique, discussed the naticm's underdeveloped state last night in the library. (photo by Paul Clevenger)  that time, most of the white population, inculding technicians and doctors, left the country. Rhodesian news sources,  Portuguese left behind was "an extremely undeveloped country." He also said the Frelimo govern­ment was still in a transition  

Faculty favors Carter, forms support group 
by Katie Kerwin Republicans, as well as traditional amoral practices of his appointer,
ter and about 20 percent by Ford.
Senior Staff Reporter Democrats. Richard Nixon," Shaffer continued
Shaffer siad he based this state­
The group called for support "and we firmly believe that Jimmy
ment on a report from the U.S.
Sixty-four ND-SMC faculty mem­from the Notre Dame -St. Mary's ~arter's candidacy holds the prom­
Catholic Conference (USCC) which
bers and administrators have form­academic community. Membership ISe of a new era of fresh leadership
compares the Democratic and
ed The Jimmy Carter Committee at is open to all faculty, students, and fair policies to face the many
Republican party platforms with
Notre Dame, a-spokesman for the staff, and administrators. challenges which confronts us as a
usee positions submitted to both 
group announced Tuesday. Shaffer emphasized that the nation."
parties at convention time.Former Law Dean Thomas L. endorsement of Carter does not The report shows Carter's stand
Shaffer, chairman of the organiza­imply an official position by the w
to be in accordance with the U.S.tion, stated that it "is committed to University, but added that he felt it Catholic Conference position -on Ithe election of Jimmy Carter and to be "representative of the major;­major issues including health care,
Walter Mondale as our next Presi­ity here." I­
NO
employment, income policy, hous­dent and Vice Presdient. The committee hopes to meet ing, education, human rights, and
"We assert that their policies with Carter while he is on campus G. B. Shaw's prophetic
the Panama Canal. 
and the principles they stand for this Sunday. comedy.
The committee looks to Carter to 
are best for our students and their 
Faculty endorsement of a presi-"restore to our government the Oct. 1, 2, 7, 8, 9 at 8:00P-m.
SMC
families, for our University and l dential candidate is not a new thing essence of caring, moral leadershipCollege and for our country," he 
at Notre Dame, Shaffer noted. Such which has been so badly missed THEATRE 
All seats $2.50

said. 
support groups date back to the under our two most recent Republi­
O'LAUGHLIN ($2 Std-Fac-Staff)
The membership list includes: Adlai Stevenson campaigns in the can presidents," Shaffer's state­AUDITORIUM 
Special Rate 4 P!ays

Fr. David Burrell. C.S.C., chair­'SO's. ment said. 
Phone: 284-4176 

man of the Theology Department; Shaffer said that when he sought "It seems evident that Gerald ____ 
Dr. Phillip Faccenda, University members of the commitl<!e, "some Ford has failed to redirect our 
Vice President and General Coun­declined to sign because they were 
sel; Dean David T. Link, Dean of Republicans or they disagreed on 
the Law School; Sr. Elena Malits other issues, but I didn't have a 
··"o~~·~;~:;e ,~~~··· r-SHARE.THERiiE.lC.S.C., Director of the Department Isingle one decline because of the of Religious Studies at St. Mary's abortion issue," according to an College; and Dr. James A. Roemer, Associated Press story. 
advocate fund1ng i S HS :
Dean of Students. 
"Gov. Carter's position on abor­Also endorsing Carter are: Prof. tion is quite consistent with my :
co~t~~~~;m:~u~~t~oe:g~t· ~~t~eof WITH U T I : 
Edward Vasta. chairman of the own," Shaffer said. He added that 
English Department; Fr. Francis although he had formerly favored a 
~~7~~a w~~ ~~~res:;~l~h~r~~~~zeo1 : i 
Quinlivan, C.S.C., director of the constitutional amendment to res­
Advocates for the Arts Committee. + WEEKEND +Justice and Peace Commission; trict abortions, he now thinks that This na_tional organization c~ncen-+ . + and Dean Fernard N. Dutile, possibility is "a dead issue." trates 1ts efforts on secunng a : + Assistant Dean of the Law School. 
Shaffer also said he did not run Schaffer said that membership into a 'Catholic problem' with ':

~i;t~~~a/~vne~o~~:~~~~~~h!olrt~~e AND GET 0N : 
has increased to about 80 persons Carter while organizing the com­A division of the Associated + + 
since the list was printed. He mittee. He stated that about 80 Councils of the Arts, headquarter-+ : added that they are receiving percent of traditional Catholic support from Independents and teachings are represented by Car­

~~si~ni~=~d~~~ro~:;re·_i:r~rvn~~~~~~ : TO AGO0DTHING :
and program coordmatton for men + + and women volunteers who wish to + • +Candidates debate SALT support federal legislation affecting ++ + 
the arts. Its chairman IS Louis t 
U.S. role. Harris of the Harris polling organi-: Us means Greyhound. and a Jot of your fellow students +(continued from page I) 
and Poland are auronomous and -The President said the admini­zation. + who are already on to a good thing. You leave when you + 
not controlled by Moscow. stration does not condone repres­Bergin also serves as national + like. Travel comfortably. Arrive refreshed and on time. sion in South Korea, but recog­chairman of the Artists in Schools 
i

-Ford said Cruise missiles, the Committee of the National Endow-You'll save money, too. over the increased airnizes "the very delicate situation"nation's newest weapon, could be 
ment for the Arts. fares. Share the ride with us on weekends. Holidays.
faced by the South Koreans be­covered by a SALT II agrement, but 

cause of their hostile relation with : Anytime. Go Greyhound.
only if the Soviet Backfire bombing 
North Korea. 

Springsteen tix
is also included. 
-Carter said he would never cede

-Carter said Ford's nuclear pro­
•
control of the Panama Canal Zone

liferation policies would lead to an are still available i
though he would consider sharing

increase from tive to 20 in the 
jurisdiction over the zone and Good tickets are still available for
number of nations who have nuc­
might consid~r reducing the U.S. the Bruce Springsteen concert,
lear bombs. 
military presence there. Student Union Concert Commissi­
-Ford said morality of U.S. 
Ford said negotiations over the · oner Jim Speier announced yester­
foreign policy was evidenced by 
canal zone should continue under day. The show is Saturday, Oct. 9
current efforts for settlement in _ 
guidelines that have the United at 8 p.m. Because all tickets are
southern Africa, where, he said, 
I
States maintaining complete access positioned in front of the stage late
there would have been an "acceler­
to the zone and maintaining the ticket buyers will not be disappoin­
ation of the bloodshed'' without the 
ability to defend it. ted with the location of their seats, -Carter and Ford agreed that the Speier said. United States should veto any The entire show will be played by
Griffin to offer 
Grotto Mass 
effort to admit Vietnam to the Springsteen and the E Street Band United Nations until there is a ful and will be one of Springsteen's accounting of Americans officially few appearances in the Midwest. 
Barber & Hair 
a 
St 1 Sh 
Y e 0 P 
Open six days a ·. week 
Sat 8 to 3:00 
1437 N. Ironwood South Bend 
Appoi~tment only 0 
277-0615 ' Q Close to Campus 0 




Heartbreak ·House. 

GREYHOUND SERVICE 
ONE-ROUND-YOU CAN YOU TO WAY TRIP LEAVE ARRIVE 
Chicago, 11. $6.75. $12.85 9:20am 11:15 am Cleveland, o. $18.20 $34.60 9:00am 4:20pmDetroit $14.20 $27.00 2:35pm 9:00pm Toledo $11.10 $21.10 3:00pm 7:10pm Milwakee $11.20 $21.30 12:35 pm 5:45pm 
Ask your agent about additional departures and return trips. 
GREYHOUND AGENT ADDRESS PHONE 
:
: 
+ 
•: 
i· 
+ 
: 
+ 
~ . 
: 

Father Robert Griffin, University listed as missing in action in Student Union feels that as the first chaplain, will celebrate a mass at Vietnam. Student Union concert of the the Grotto on Thursday, Oct. 7, at Ford and Carter shook hands after semester it will be a classic 
• 

10:30 p.m. the cameras clicked off. ''I'll see production of the unique entertain­





GO GREYHOUND i
Griffin is saying the mass in you in Williamsburg," Ford said. ment that Springsteen is noted for. honor of the Feast of the Holy That is the site of their final debate, Speier added, ''This concert is a 
...and leave the driving to use i 
Rosary. The Glee Club will on Oct. 22. "Okay," Carter re­perfect remedy for those who will 
perform at the evening celebration. plied, smiling. be sick from Saturday classes." ................................. 
Thursday, October 7, 1976 
the observer 


~lreiai1J-today-.. 
ANDREAS O'CEALLACHAIN 
Editor's Note: The present strife in Northern Ireland constitutes something of an undeclared war, one that has been dragging on for six years. One of the main catalysts of the continued bloodshed has been the Irish Repl:blicans,whose political wing, the Sinn Fein, sent Mr. Andreas O'Ceallachain to Notre Dame and other places in American to explain their cause. 
Observer: Could you explain the backgro­
und of the Sinn Fein, starting with the 
name? 
O'Ceallachain: The name Sinn Fein mean 
:·we o~r~elves." The significance of that 
IS that tt tmplies self-reliance, because we 
of Sinn Fein have always believed that the 
problems of Ireland will ultimately be 
solved by the Irish people themselves 
com!ng to grips with those problems, and 
solvmg those problems themselves rathet 
than waiting for some external Me~siah or 
relying on anybody outside Ireland namely 
the British. ' 
The Sinn Fein. and the Republican 

movement of today see ourselves in two 
says: first of all, as the latest link in the 
historic resistant to British interference in 
Irish affairs. but also Republicanism today 
tS a very revolutionary thought. It has a 
very definite ideas about what Ireland 
s~ould be like in the future. and how the 
lnsh. people should shape their own 
destmy. This is consistent with a 
democratic understanding of how the problems of Ireland should be solved resting on the will of all the Irish ' Observer: What is the role of Sinn Fein in the IRA? O'Ceallachain: Since the Sinn Fein was found~d !n 1905. it has been a political org~mzatton. After the 1916 rising and du:mg the War of Independence. the Sinn Fem embraced the IRA as the official army of the 32-county republic that had been proclaimed ?Y Pierce and Connolly and had been establtshed by the democratic will of all the Irish people. So Sinn Fein has remained the political wing of the IRA It is legal. both in the North and So~th, although many of its members are impris­oned. On the other hand. the IRA is a ~ecret ~n.d militar.y o:ganization. Sinn Fein ts a ctvtl orgamzatton, so there is no problem in talking about it. If one is a member ~f th.e IRA, he doesn't go about broadcastmg tt. Observer: You were advertised as a fugitive from the British. How did that come about? 
~'Ceallachain: The British Army has the td.ea that ~nyone prominent in the political wmg on Smn Fein is prominent in the IRA as well. That's partly the reason. Also, 1 ry to spen a lot of time in the North as
t d
well. Believing a 32-county republic any time I go into the North. I seek t~ 
h 'd 

promote ~ e. t e~ of a 32-county republic,and. that ts m dtrect opposition to British po tcy. · e most recent attempt is when
I Th
they made an attempt to arrest both myself and Joe Stagg, who died recently on a hun.!j:er strike. They sealed out the 
t h 
par tcu1ar area w ere we were holding a rally, but we managed to skip out in the crowd. It was no great problem. 
Other than that, you don't have to be militarily active in the north to be wanted 
b th B ·r h A M 
. y e ~~IS rmy. ost of the people mterned m 1971 had no military committ­ment at all, they were not terrorists. Observer: Do you work out of Belfast? O'Ceallachain: I live in Dublin; that's 
w ere my ~me is,' that's where my
h h
brothers and ~tsters live. I'm a university 
An interview 
want to talk to somebody. 

Observer: What brings you to America? 
O'Ce~ac~ain: My main purpose in 
A.mer~can ts .to exchange ideas, just as we 
dtd thts evenmg. You know, I don't believe 
that everything 'I say in the United States is 
going to be accepted as the Gospel, and · 
that's not my objective. My objective is to 
put the conflict in Ireland into some kind of 
broader perspective. And 1 think one of the 
reaso~s people become so dispirited .and 
despatred about the conflict in Ireland is 
that ~he m~dia makes no attempt to come 
to gnps wtth the causes. You just hear 
"Five p~~ple killed in an explosion," or 
about Bnttsh officers killed in an ambush. 
~nq .e~eryb~dy s.~ys, "Isn't it shocking,.. 
Isn t tt ternble, and of course it is. My 
who!~ point is explaining to people that 
~h~kmg.your head and saying it's shocking 
tsn t gomg to cure it. What we need to do 
is examine the· causes of it. That's the 
purpos~ of my tour, not for propaganda, 
but to hsten to people and try to explain the 
causes o~ the conflict, to give them a little 
perspective. 

Observer: Since this Is largely an internal 
matter within the United Kingdom why do 
you consider is important to edu~ate the 
American public about Ireland? 

o·~~allachain: First of all, although the 
Bnttsh government claims it is an internal 
matter. the fact is, that the Labour 
Government, which is in power at the 
moment, recently held their party confere­
nee and Northern Ireland was not a subject 
of discussion. 

At t~e same time Ireland doesn't get the 
attentton as betng a major international 
issue. for a number of reasons. On the one 
hand, it seems to be a conflict between 
Catholics and Prostestants, but they have 
the same language and culture. So you scratch you head and then think, "What the hell are they fi,ghting about over there?" That's part of the problem. · 
The other reason, I believe, is the 
b:oa~er issue of injustice affronting human 
dtgmty. whether in Ireland or anywhere in 
the. wor~d .. I.f you. believe in justice, you 
belteve m .tt m Chtle. the Philippines, you 
an~whe~e ~n the world. 1 may be a bit naive 
or tdealtst~c. but if I weren't fightjng the 
problems m ~reland, I would be doing it 
some.wher~ m. the world. Anywhere 
confltct extsts m th~ world, 1 believe you 
must tackle the baste causes of injustice. 
Observer: Arc you also seeking sources of 
financial support here? 

O'Ccallachain: The organization in the 
U.S. called Irish Northern Aid, which has been opera~ing for a number or years and, of course, ts registered with the Treasury ~ept,. .. that organization has been engaged m ratsmg money to support the families of the _nearly 2,000 political prisoners in E.ngltsh and -Irish j.<l:ils. The funds are paid~trectly to the fam!lt~s. and the whole thing ts carefully scrutmtzed by your security forces. and Irish security forces because everythi~g is handled through th'e banks. 
.There ts a lot of talk of guns coming from thts country. But in no case has it everbeen p~oven that funds sent through Northern Atd have gone to buy guns or has gone in any way to illicit activities. The IRA would be in a very poor state, indeed. if it was to depend ~otall.y, or to any great extent, on funds raised m the United States. Support comes from both within Ireland and other 
parts of the world as well. ~bserver: How did you first become mvolved with Sinn Fein? O'Ceallachain: At first, 1 became interest-
d · h 

e m. t e 1rish people and culture. I was
h 

astoms ed, coming from a family that did't 
speak Gaelic, at the tremendous wealth of 
culture that. the Irish have produced over
th.e cen.tunes. And was bt'tterly
1
d

tsappomted that our own people did,i'•. see:n to appreciate the beauty of our own hentage, .that we seemed to be a people, a~m~st Wlt~out an identity. Many people
dldn. ~ reahze that we have a great literary
tradttton back to the Gaelic times. h
0

· n t .e other hand, we had a government m Dubltn that was always saying that they wanted .to see ~ united Ireland, but they 
never dtd anythmg about it, except make
s~eeches. I became very interested in Irish 
h. tstory, and. how we almost became d d 
1920

m epen ent m · We were to achieve total economic and political indep­
endence, or as much as possible, tod eve1op our own resources. But I r~alized 
Eamon DeValera reviewing an IRA contingent [1921]. 
myself .. I came to the conclusion that one of the reasons for the violence was that we failed to achieve an independence in the past, and failed to build an independent Ireland. I decided that if the problem wasn't solved now, that it would only be worse in 20 or 30 years. 
I came to the conviction that we would have to build new institutions for all Ireland, because the institutions had failed in the South just as much as in the North. There is a great class distinction in the South, a great lack of opportunity for the poo~. and I c~m~ from a working class famtly myself; tt ts an awareness of these economic factors, plus the political factors I already mentioned, that makes me believe 
only a total revolution in Ireland could change things. 
At the same time, I think the new institutions should not be modeled on the Soviet Union or any other totalitarian regime. We do not believe in a Communist 
dictatorship. or any other kind of dictator­ship. We do ~eli~ve .that the Irish people can produce mstttuttons that will insure social change, as well as preserve individ­
ual freedom. Observer: Ireland, for the most part, is portrayed as the serene, idyllic Emerald 
• ·., In this kind of setting, do you think you can build a broad, popular base for your revolution, or will people want to keep things as they are? O'Ccallachain: I would say that the IRA does not have the support ofthe majority of the electorate, but at the same time, nobody ha~ ever c~nducted a poll askingtha~ questton. It ts a fact, that in any soctety. past of present, only a minority of the people are politically aware. It's true that in tin.1~s of con~ict, more people become ~oltttcally consctous, but apathy is a very btg problem. We feel somewhat helpless. because people do tend to opt out of politics. 
What I would say to you is this: the si.tuation in Ireland today is not really dtfferent from any other conflict of this nature. You have those who are active in nature, who analyze and study the situati­on and then set out, by sheer stamina and education. to bring about the changes for the general good of society. 
While saying that, I must point out that as late .as 1968, the IRA was almost totally non-extstant. It had altogether about three guns in Belfast. The IRA grew out of the state reaction to the civil rights movement. It was when this movement was forced off the str~ets that.people decided we can go on gettmg our skulls bashed in, stay in our homes and forget about it, or else we can defend ourselv~s. T~ose who support us went for the thtrd optton. Observer: The latest run of violence has lasted for six years, and from this side of the ocean, looks as though it will never end. What can you see as a possible solution to the conflict? ~'Ccal~achain: That is really a very1mposstble question. Somehow the people 
could stomach the violence, if they could see that it was leading somewhere. But in the ~.S., .one gets the feeling that we 
aren t gettmg anywhere. The reason for
h' · h

t. ts, ts t a.t it is presented to you as one 
ltttany of vwlence. There is no attempt to cut th.rough that into the political climate of 
th t Th 

e tme. e reason is that it is probablymuch too ~omplicated, and it is much 
· 1 d

stmp er an '!lore facile to present justanother bombmg, or shooting. or killing. and nothing about political conditions. War is an extention of politics. You 
d 't ·1 fi 

on necessar1 y stop 1ghting because you can't see the end of the tunnel, but you ~ee~ on because you think your cause is JUStified. When Britain offers us peace, we 
must ask if it is going to be like the peace of th I t tift . . 
e as t y years, or ts tt going to be a new peace, based on justice? So I can't say that ~ext .week, or next year, or whatever, there ts gomg to be an end to the conflict. What I can say to yo.u is that if the IRA were to put
11th

away a etr guns and ammunition there still wouldn't be peace. Without basic 
Observer: What constructh·e role can violence play In remoYing the British? O'Ceallachain: I don't believe that violence is constructive in anv wav ... it's destructive: Wh~n the Allies decide(! to go to war agamst Httler. tt was a destructive policy. but aimed at a constructive objccti· ve. and that's the point. So the IRA campaign. to that extent, is destru-ctive. But remember. England is occupying Ireland. and the means. which \'OU asked about is forced upon us. If the Ir.ish people were occupying part of England. I would expect the English to tight against us. The means. of violence as you called it or resistance as we would .:all it. is aimed at making British rule in Ireland impossible. 
Observer: What is the ultimate goal for which your moyement has been struggling for so long? O'Ceallachain: We believe that Ireland has tremendous potential--economically, politically and in many other wavs. One of the tremendous tragedies of pa.rtition has been the tremendous concentration of the symbols of freedom·-the flag. the national anthem, while the public has paid little attention to what we call the bread and butter issues--housing. education for the poor, the question generally of the wealth of the people being plowed back into the economy. rather than siphoned off into Swiss or British banks. We want to see wealth held in Ireland and invested in Irish industry. There is more land 1\'ing barren and undeveloped in the south fhan there is in all of the six counties in the North. and we want to see this land developed for agriculture. We believe that real problems concern the land, nation-building. how to restore the economy. But as long as the basic injustices continue, it will be hard to harnes~ the strengths of the people to these tssues. When the British leave, that's when the real work begins, not the solving of the problems, but the beginning of tackling solutions. Observer: Upon British withdrawal, what would happen to the Prostetants In the North? O'Ceallachain: What we would hope is that in a new Ireland. and we no longer use the phrase "united Ireland," since that 
conjures upimages of the South taking over the North. we would hope that the Pr_otestants wouldjoin with us in building thts ne"": Ireland. Y~u should not forget that dunng the Amencan Revolution. vou had many Loyalists who were at first opposed to independence, but later switc­hed allegiance. I think we can convince our fellow Protl!:stant countrymen that a new I:etand has a tremendous economic poten­ttal. and we could develop it together to win the admiration of the world. The main issue in this whole conflict is not religious. but how to restructure Irish society without British interference. ­
Observer: Would you then agree with the old Irish prophesy, that an Ireland dh ided will never be an Ireland at peace? O'Ceallachain: That, by and large is true. Observer: Thank you, Mr. O'Ceallacbllin. 

student pursumg a course of studies at the that .most of my aunts and uncles had changes, all the splendid peace marches national University. e!llmlgrated to other parts of the world and all the political organizations would M t f smce 1920, that the great dreams of the t h · 
os o my time is taken up travelling revolutionaries of 1920 had failed. come o not mg. that is why Britain must 
a?out t~e cou.ntry organizing branches of extricate itself from Ireland; so that the The General Post Office, Sackville St. Smn Fem, domg a lot of public speaking 1 was only 14 in 1969 when the North Irish people can come to grips with their DiJblin, was the site of the uprising of d th' l'k h A l ' erupted. I followed the events closely and bl If
an mgs 1 e t at. !so, generally deal studied the history, then went to the North pro ems. someone would show me 1916, which began the Revolution that _wjth people who come from abroad and myselfj'ust to see what a h . f another way that worked, I would be open led to independence from Britain. • 
•.,...,.._IIW,._ •-...·•-w s appemng or 
to it . 

·• W ~F -wr .., "JwVS w 'O#W .., '"lrWS .., ...,. .., ...,.,. -.sarA • a. LA-:::w
.~.... --... ..r. """"Jir! _..,.,. .,._,.,. .. -•-4 ft.oo ·-A. ·-·-u. .,'&........ w,... ......
-ft-~ 
-------~--­
the observer Thursday, October 7, 1976 
I 


SMC Republicans conducting telephone poll 
explained Beth Cutter, Chairman a1ways accurate. Many students' year that the St. Mary's group has group conunue, and not fall apart
by Anne Bachle 

of St. Mary's College Republicans. numbers have changed since the acted independently of Notre after the elections are over. "Now
Staff Reporter 

"We'd also like to see what kind of directory came out, so we've had to Dame. that we're organized we nust keep Republican support there is on get these from housing." "The meetings were always it going," she said. She would also The St. Mary's College Repub­campus, as a basis for our cam­An effort has been made to try at held at Notre Dame, and girls like to see the group become more 
licans are currently taking a tele­paign." least twice to contact each student, never found out about them," involved in local politics, especially 
phone poll of all St. Mary's Those polled who were undecid­but it is expected that a certain Cutter explained. ''Many girls since many students are registered students, in order to determine ed may receive literature, and Ford number of students will not be didn't even know we (St. Mary's in Indiana. "But," she pointed out, how they will vote in the upcoming supporters may be asked for help in reached. "This is supposed to be a College Republicans) existed." "our main interest is in national 
presidential election. campaigning here on campus. blitz," Ames emphasized. This This year, however, the group is politics, since that'a what the The students are first asked if "The main thmg is to get students means as many students as pos­working separately from the Notre students here are most concerned they are registered to vote, and if thinking seJ;"iously about the cam­sible are contacted within a short Dame Republicans. with." so for whom they will 6e voting. paign," Cutter said. time, in this case between Monday There are currently about twenty Cutter viewed the Jack Ford "We hope to have the results The Student Telephone Direct­night and Thursday. when results active members in the group, and reception held last week with tallied ay Thursday night." stated ory is being used for names and of the poll will be tallied. at least twice that many are listed mixed feelings. "The price was Suzanne Ames. who is in charge of phone numbers, with each of Although the St. Mary's and as members, which Cutter views as really too high," she agreed. but the poll, ·along with Amy Kerston. twelve volunteers taking a page, Notre Dame groups have always very good. "We never had enough Yound Republicans set it and she "The purpose of the poll is to see which is about ISO names. "We're had different charters under the support before now," she noted. was unable to persuade them to how many students are registered, trying to call everybody," Ames Indiana Federation of College Re­Cutter would lige to see the lower it. and how ti-\Pv look at the election," explained, "but the directory isn't, publican Clubs, this is the first 
r couPoN-· -I N D I b k c t I VITANUN c 500MGM. TABlBS I 
I I I

c.~~~' o~~~·~d,.~~~;~~~~~~":.~~: '~:;~~:~~~~-~~~'~!~, :~,.' iI (LIM~ 1 5lB~fT~~Ot4~~~J~ON) I 
I 

President. will speak Sunday., Oct. on a first-come, first-served basis out tickets, and will provide Carte-AMERICA'S BEST BRAND AT I 10 at 12: IS p.m. at Notre Dame in to any Notre Dame student or r's talk on loudspeakers outside the the Center for Continuing Educati-faculty member. main entrance to the Center for the SOUTH BE D'S I 
on. Carter's talk is sponsored by In addition. the Center .will set convenience of the University co-I N LOWEST PRICE 
I 
I

k~k~:~~~2:,l~~~:~::.:::: (i~f':<£15"d~;;;li;;" ~d;~;;•l public. Ill ll.l£,11 I I
by Third District congressman 

~~hnF~.ra1~:~~r;il~~e ~~:~~~~~~ for student teaching forms I MAR MAIN PHARV\ACV I I 
president of Notre Dame and I 
former head of the u.s. Commissi-Seniors at Saint Mary and additional information may call the 426 N. MICHIGAN I
t 
on on Civil Rights. Notre Dame who plan to s,udent Department of Education, Saint 
Due to the sponsorship of Carter' teach in the spring semester of the Mary's College, Notre Dame, 284--(N;~~~-~gP-onald~1!~l~J__J s Address, the University will give 1976-77 academic year must apply 4120. preferential seating opportunity to for student teaching forms and the staff of the Center for Civil complete them before the deadline, Rights and the faculty and students October lS of the LawSchool and the Departm-Forms may be obtained at the ent of Government and Internatio-office of the Department of Educa­nal Studies. tion, Saint Mary's College, Rm. 
From 10 a.m. Thursday to noon 320. At this time, Sister Maria C. · on Friday, tickets to the talk will be McDermott , acting chairman of available for faculty and undergra-the Department of Education, will duate and graduate majors in the review with each prospective stu­Department of Government and dent teacher the requirements for International Studies in the office certification before signing the of that department's chairman and formal application. to the faculty and students of the The information is necessary so .aw School in the office of its dean. 1 that Mrs. Grace McGuire, super­fhe director qf the Center for civil visor of student teaching. may ·ights Dr. Donald Kommers, will begin to place each student accord­jistribute tickets to his staff mem-ing to his major in an appropriate Jers. secondary school in the Michiana 
These tickets will guarantee area. No student will be guarante­;eating within the auditorium. ed placement for student teaching fickets will be given out on a who has not completed registration first-come, first-served basis, and by October IS. wy unclaimed by noon Friday will Those who have questions con­oe brought to the Information Desk cerning their status or have need of 
l 
( REMEMBER [ Nickies for Lunch Bunch Friday 12-6pm 
Pitchers $1.25 
Monday & Tuesday BEER Specials 
1Opm -Midnight $1.25 Pitcher 
3 Stooges on T.V 
here everyday at 3:30 




Thursday, October 7,1976 the observer 
------~~--------~------------~ 
Irish golfers capture invitational 
*Observer 
Notices Typing . $.35 a page. Call Dan, 272-5549. Gay Hotline: Friday and Satur­day, 10:00 to 12:00 pm. 283-8870. G. C. N.D. P.O. Box 206 Notre Dame ADIDAS-shoes (57 varieties), shirts, bags, etc. Quick orders. See catalog G5 Farley. Chris or Mary 3982. EXPERIENCED PILOT will fly 2 or 3 passengers to destinations with in  Wanted Needed urgently! One or two house, mates (male or female) for an old house near corner of Hill and Napolean; 3 bedrooms, complete bathroom, well insulated, <Jas heat; nice neighborhood. Please call me now, Bill 7437 till 5 pm weekdays. Wanted: Two GA Alabama tickets. Call Ron 1203. Need four OreClon tickets. Call Debbie 4728. ,  Classified Ads Help! Need 2 GA Oregon tickets. Call Gregg at 1650. Need 2 GA Bama tix. Desperate. Call 1785.  Personals ' Fr. Griffin, Despite it all, 1 still believe you might be redeemed. HAPPY BIRTHDAY! Lorenzo d'Medici P.S. See you in heaven. Griff, Happy Birthday to the only Observer columnist with tenure. Dear Fr. Griff: Have the happiest of all Happy Birthdays... Mary (J) and Dan (S)  Gus: In boxing you're tough, In lnterhall you're rough, So in admiration I say have a Happy B-day. Candy Kevin, Happy belated birthday! Come see us sometime. Remember. we still love you! 218 Big Man, You're the No. 1 writer, person, & Priest in my book! Love, Gillsby P. S. Happy Birthday!  
250-mile radius of N.D. weekends or for breaks. Return flights can be arranged. Call Jon Reyniers MB10 3396 days, 684,5867 evenings. ATTENTION. the Northern Indiana  I WANT TO GO HOME!! Urgently need ride to and from BERGEN CO., NEW JERSEY or NEW YORK CITY AREA. Will share expenses and driying. Call Mark 1200.  Desperately need ride to Columbus, Ohio weekend of Oct. 9. Call Gary 1785. Addressers wanted IMMEDIATE­LY! Work at home--no experience  Barbie, Hide the toothpaste! Griff+Happy Birthday to my favor. ite Biblical Consultant. Pat H.  Hey ROTC, You Mother! Thanks for telling us it was your birthday. The only recompense acceptable is the showing of either your birthday suit or your ROTC suit!! Happy Birth­day, US in 218  
Older Adult Legislative Forum is a group designed to become a political force in Indiana. They will meet at 1  Need one Alabama Robbie 8706.  ticket.  Call  necessary--excellent pay. Write A­merican Service, Suite 132, Minne­apolis, Mn. 55426.  Happy Birthday Griff, with from your baby, Darby O'Gill  love  P.S. TACOS are great! WHO'S BEEN ABUSING  THE  
PM in Stepan Center, Thurs., Oct. 7. Come and attend. Greyhound Bus to Chicago leaves Circle every Friday at 4:45. Call Tom  Julio's Carry,out part-time delivery <JUY wanted. Must have own car. Guaranteed $3.00 per hour. Call 233-2354 after 4 p.m.  ROLL TIDE-got some extra GA tix you wanna get rid of fast? Call Mary 8-125.  JD, We need some more ferns!! Me Griff-Happy Birthday to the Univer­sity Maine . iac  RILES??? -JDG, You're cute too!!! GEC 8936 and 8938, The joke was tunny  
at 8338 by midnight Thursday for seat reservations and further info. FREE!!! 10-week old kitten (male). Call Terry 3888. Accurate, fast typing. Mrs. Donoho. 232-0746. Pitt bus after Oregon game. Sign up Thurs. (today) night LaFortune Lobby. 6:30 p.m. Lost & Found Lost: Gold watch and watch band. Perhaps around St. Mary's Regina Hall. Band had links missing and face cracked in three places. If found, please call Jim 272-6075. Lost: Leather key chain with 8 keys. Gold initial 'N' on leather. Call 8066.  Need 2 Oregon GA tickets. Call Kevin 289-6929.------;------!1...._____ Desperately need up to 5 GA tickets for Miami game for Mom, Dad & the kids. Call Peg or Rose at 4682. Need riders to Bloomington (Nor­mal, ISUJ. Ill. Oct. 8. Call 272-2401. I WANT YOU to sell me 3 or more GA ticx to Oregon. Karen 6737. MILLIONAIRE Irish fan from Min­nesota must have 4 GA BAMA tix. UNLIMLTED FUNDS!! Call Dan 1420. Need 2 Oregon GA tickets. Name your price. Call 6733 or 233-4222. --------------­4GA Oregon tickets needed for loving parents. Joan 1334.  Need 2 Bama tix for parents who never have been to an ND game. Mary 8125. Ride to Toledo this Friday. Call Peggy 8125. MONEY-will pay nicely for 4 GA Oregon tix. Leslie 8135. Wanted: ride to Youn<1stown or vicinity on Oct. 15 or 16. Cathy . · 4-4770. Riders needed for Toledo this Fri­day. Call Bev 287-2219. Need 6 GA Oregon tickets. Call 7128. Need ride to BUFFALO for October break. Call Chris 6881. Need desperately two Alabama GA  Are you Happy Birthday, Griff?---------1-------­Dear D.O. of Dakota, I appreciate the truce on abuse. However, future personals won't even be enough to make you choke on your Coke (I mean Pepsi). As a remed-y I propose my greatest creative literary endeavor: "True Confessions of the Debacherous Domer". To be printed complete and unabridged in th" final issue of the semester (to help you resist the temptation to retaliate). Extra cop·ies containing this thought-pro­voking V>'Ork of non-fiction will be available for you to pass around. · Poison Pen of PA Happy Birthday Griff -The Lonely God P.S. Who said I moved & left no address?  guts, but you best be careful! 1hope Candace 0. and 17 did not take it the wrong way or else! I owe you one. The Real "Yankee Mike" P.S. Spell FARRAH m"'ch. To Crackers, JBM, RNG. c, and "The Guys", You guys have to start coming up with new material. I can't be clever and witty all the time (although 1try). G Guts, Seebs & Monty are gonna have a party tonight! Hey! Thursday night! Sunrise & Beer. 606 N. St. Peter Street. "Mutters" Mark. Froelicher Gebur­tstag. von deinem lievender Zim­mie, Hans. und auch die schoene Sylvia. Ireland, I've got another newsweek. I'll never tell.  
Found: Hunting knife left in car by hitchiker Friday night. Call 255-8496.  Need ride to Long Island, N. Y. Oct. Break. Leave Friday afternoon. Share$ and Driving. Chris 288-9768 after 6:30.  tickets. Will pay$$. Call 4-5237. 2 rides available to and from Washington, D.C. area for break. Leaving Wednesday, Oct. 13 after  Fr. Griffin-Happy Birthday and Happy Anniversary at Darby's. Thanks for your present to the University two years ago.  To the Weurtz "study" lounge: Thanks for the terrific time on the Green Field. 01-4 are great odds!) Love, Bad Girls of Badin  
Lost: Brown corduroy jacket at SM C clubhouse party Friday. If found call Lou 6818. -Let a smile be your umbrella on a rainy day, but I need my light brown wrap-tie raincoat! Reward. Call Karen . 6994. Lost: 2 rings in vicinity of ROTC buildings. High school-green stone; and turquoise with mother of pearl. Reward offered. Please call Kevin. 233-4222.  Associated Cleaning Service needs one male to work on campus from 9 p.m. to 1 a.m. 5 days a week. Pay rate $2.40 an hour. Responsible individual only. Inquire at 232-7441. Will trade 2 Section 26 Oregon tix for 2 Bama tix. Call Steve 287-6823. Need 2 GA tix for Oregon. Phone Bob 255-8660. Need 7 Oregon tickets. 259-0631 after 5:00 p.m. Wanted: Pair of Oregon tix for mom  classes. Call Dave 8810 or 3697. For Sale NEW LONDON LAKE CONDO, MINIUM. 2 bedrooms, den, 2-car garage. $33,900. Sandy Stroes 272­7750 or 272-2696. For sale: 2 Married Student tickets for all remaining home games. 272,9799 For Sale: '71 Pinto. Good transpor­tation. Call Bill, 288-5972.  You make our nights fun and all our days sunny. Happy Birthday, Rain­maker, our Notre Dame Honey. -Sargent & Big Bad Happy Birthday Griff. En joy it. Love, MLF Happy Birthday to Dick Conyers . Come down to the lake tonite and see what a big splash he makes around here. Ex-Keenanite Son or Gar: It's your birthday! Hope you have a good day! a friend  P. S. Any effects from the baby oil brownies?! Hey yo,yo-let's play tonite!! Zeke, Bitsy, and Block: Not every bod has such keen kidz. You made my semi-centennial. MPR, I want to liberate you, confiscate you, 1 want to be your... "Someday we'll look back on this and it wil all seem funny." Me. Casey, Happy 21st. You're an official woman now! Love, M, C & K  
and dad! Call 3429.  

Sports 

Hockey team to hold Expo 
Thursday, Oct. 7 at 7pm head coach Lefty ~mith, assistant coach Rick Schaferand their Notre Dame hockey team will demonstrate the rudiments of hockey, hold a scrim­mage and give away autographed team pictures at the first annual Notre Dame Hockey Expo. 
"What we hope' to do," com­ments Smith, "is to orient fans to the game of hockey. Although it may appear complicated to a spectator viewing a hockey game for the first time. once you grasp certain basic situations the game is very easy to understand." 
Beginning at 7 o'clock Smith and Schafer will be describing the basic hockey skills and fundamental stra­tegies as they are demonstrated by the Irish skaters. These fundamen­tals will include the correct shoot­ing technique, position play, pen­alty and power play strategies and common infractions. 
ND tennis team to hos,t tourney 
The fourth annual Notre Dame Fall Invitational tennis tournament will be held this Friday through Sunday. Six schools will take part in the round robin tournev which will begin at I 0 am at the Courtney Tennis Center behind the ACC. The schools entered include North­western. Indiana State. Purdue, Illinois State. and the host Irish. 
Notre Dame, defending Eastern Collegiate tennis champion, has twice captured team honors in the fall classic, including its victory in 1975. Irish Coach Tom Fallon anticipates a strong balance down 
Immediately following this pres­entation the Irish will scrimmage under game conditions for one period while coaches Smith and Schafer comment on the play. "We will be making insights involving the finer points of hockey p~taining to situations and occur­rences that hockey fans sometimes miss during the course of the game." states Smith. 
At the conclusion of the scrim­mage the Irish will be available to autograph complimentary team pictures as well as to pose for pictures with those fans bringing their own call)eras. 
Go,ing hand-in-hand with this Hockey Expo, the Irish staff has produced a slide presentation depicting hockey situations and strategies basic to the ga'l1e. This presentation will be available to any club; group or team by calling 283-8488. 
/ 
the line of his singles players. Senior captain Randy Stehlik should hold down the number-one position while Junior Brian Hain­line is the favorite for the second slot with the remainder of positions 
up for grabs. 
Included in the battle for these berths arc Seniors Marty Horan and Bill Sturm. Junior Tony Bruno, Sophomore Mark Trueblook and a pair of Freshman in Chris Fallon and Carlton Harris. 
Fallon is also quite optimistic about the three doubles teams that will represent Notre Dame. The 

by Tom Desmond Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame golf team captured the third annual Notre Dame Golf Invitational yesterday on the Burke Memorial Course besting runner-up Wisconsin-Mil­waukee by seven shots. 
Freshman John Lundgren lead 
the  way  for  the  Irish  firing  an  
even-par  71  to  take  individual  
honors.  The  Minnesota  native  

commented afterword that he "worked hard" in shooting his round, making long birdie puts on the first and seventh holes and then holing a birdie putt on the final green for the even-par round. 
Senior Bob Belmonte registered one birdie in shooting a 74 while Tim Saurs fired a one-under par 34 on the back nine to finish at 75. Freshman Dave Knee and Indiana Intercollegiate runn~r-up Biv Wad­den rounded out the Notre Dame scoring at 373 with 76 and 77 respectively, 
Sophomore Dave Richert scored three birdies enroute to a 72, leading the non-scoring Notre 
Dame blue team to a 377 total. Mike Gennette, a monogram win­ner from last spring, toured the front nine in even par and closed at 74. 
Yesterday's convincing victory was the Irish's first in their own 
pairs will include Stehlik and Hainline. Fallon and Harris and the duo of Bruno and Horan. 
Competition among the six schools is expected to be fierce. Indiana boasts several transfer St!Jdcnts from San Diego and is also represented by Jeff True, a high school product and current city champion of South Bend. 
Conventional scoring methods will be replaced by eight-game pro sets to allow for near simultaneous conclusion of all matches. When at deuce. the next winning point will automatically decide the game. 
invitational having finished second 
two years ago and third last fall. The victory was also the first 
tournament victory for head coach Noel O'Sulli-van. In his fourth year, O'Sullivan has seen his team take second at the Northern Intercolle­giate and Notre Dame Invitationals as well as last week's Indiana 
•

SMC volleyball team WinS 
The St. Mary's Volleyball team played Huntington College Tues­day night in a best of three match. The A team won their set with a final game score of 15-8. while the B team downed Huntington in their first game 15-4. but lost the following two games. 15-4 and 15-13. 
SMC played a hard game without wubstitutions. "For a fairly inex­perienced team we did a great job 
iJ~r Clolonial 
'ancaltt lfnust 
Featuring a complete menu. BreakfAst, Lunch & Dinner 
Your Host Bob Edwards N.D. '50 
E NEVER COMPROMISE WITH QUALITY 
U.S. 31  (Dixieway North)in Roseland  
(.!~cross  from Holiday Inn)  
~·  ----------~------------------­ 
~  ~ir 1Zichdrd's  
Member of  1976  HAIR SULING  Award Winning  
State  Hairstylin<J  FOR MEN & WOMEN  Stylist  
129 Dixieway South  

(31 N in Roseland, half mile N. of Campus) 277-0734 
against the powerful offense," savs Kim Nicodemus. B team member. Patti Trippe shares the team en­thusiasm, "Even·bod~· plaved \Trv well. The closeness of the game' was great for morale." · 
The next game is ~chedulcd tnr Thursday at St. Francis. The team's first home game will he played Tues.. Oct. 12th. at the Newlan Center. SouthBcnd. Game time is set for 7p.m. 
Intercollegiate Championships. 
Commenting on his first coach­ing title and the successful season, Coach O'Sullivan noted, "Our win today will give us, both players and coach, a quiet confidence for the coming season. Our success this fall will give us the feeling that we can have a big year in th,e spring." 

.. 
8 
the observer Thursday, October 7. 1976 

Season injuries plague ND harriers 
by Gregory Solman 
Sports Writer 
Imagine our Notre Dame basket­
ball team suddenly missing two of 
the starting five. Think of where 
the football team would be if nine 
of the starting players were sud­
denly unable to play.. Coach Joe 
Piane of the Notre Dame Cross­
Country team has done more than 
think about it this year--he has 
experienced it, losing three of the 
teams top runners to unexpected 
injuries. 
The loss of three men, Jay 
Miranda, Bill Olmendinger and 
Steve Welch, has greatly affected 
the teams performance in their first 
two seasons meets, and it is not 
difficult to see why the Irish have 
dropped both. 
"I don't know of any team 
around that has the depth to lose 
three of their best kids," commen­
ted a bewildered Joe Piane. "Look 
at it in this light--we've lost 40 
percent of our best talent." 
Strangely enough, Piane claims 
that the sport of cross-country isn't 
normally prone to injuries. "You 
have to anticipate some sore knees 
and feet and perhaps some tendon-
Tim 


Junior Ed Kistner has been unable to run to his fullest capacity for three years now. Kistner still trains with the team almost daily, and runs as much as he possibly can competitively. His loss mujst also weigh against Notre Dame's scales. 
"Ed would have been one of the top runners on our team," com­mented Reinhart. 
It's hard to imagine how good this team might have been had they not been plagued with this rash of injuries. One can only guess. "I believe we would have soundly beaten Purdue, and we would have had a good shot against Michi­gan," said Pian e. "As for the Notre Dame Invitational, we were shooting to place in the top three. Now, realistically, we're looking to 
The Notre Dame cross-country team, despite injuries to key players, has performed respectably due place a Iitle lower.'' 
to excellent team morale. 
itis, but what can say about a broken ankle?" he asked. "All we can do is pray that we don't get 
them." 
Pray as they did, the injuries came. If fact, captain Jim Reinhart claims that there is hardly a member of the team that isn't presently afflicted with a minor injury of sorts, including Reinhart himself, who has been putting ice-packs on his knee after meets for a nagging knee ailment that has been bothering him for two or three years. Luckily, the problem Rein­hart has had is minor. The problem is still painful, but as his doctor put it, Reinhart would have to either 

Reinhart agreed with that asses­live with the pain or give up ment: "That's awfully hard to say, cross-country. Fortunately for the but if you go strictly by potential, I team, Reinhart chose to run--not think we would have been a lot only because he is the best ND tougher." runner, but because Piane has had If Piane can take heart in enough problems to contend with anything, it is the realization, that, this season. barring further injuries, all of his 
Steve Welch, a former top run­men should be healthy for the ner, developed a serious knee upcoming track and field season. problem that ended his cross-coun­Miranda already has his eye set on try endeavors for the season. Bill qualifying in the half mile for the Olmendinger broke his ankle, and NCAA's, and Jim Reinhart has set though he is out of his cast, will his goals at the four minute mile. miss the rest of the season in all Bill Olmendinger has his cast off, probability. Jay Miranda, a former and like Steve Welch, is starting NCAA qualifier, developed a seri­training again. For now, however, ous case oftendonities in late June, the worry is cross-country, and running a 24-hour relay. things have little hope of impro­
For Miranda, the problem has ving. been nagging him since his junior "Usually injuries hurt morale year of high school. Miranda is more than anything,·' concluded now training to run the last few the Irish mentor, "but incredibly, races in cross-country, but sees his .in all the years I've been here, I've 
t contribution to the team as being never seen the morale better." minimal. He has only been And that is indicative of a good running for a week and a h~lf now. team--winning or losing. 
SMC tennis team defeats Butler, competes Saturday 
by Patti Doyle another victory for her team 6-1, 6-2. Playing in the number six 
As St. Mary's tennis team winds singles position was Marie McKee up the last few matches of their who finished up the singles compe­season, they boast another win tition by defeating her opponent against their latest opponent, But­6-J, 6-4. In doubles. Griffin and ler University. Monday afternoon Brogger competed in a tight match Butler traveled to SMC only to but failed to finish victorious, the leave defeated; the final outcome of final score being 2-6. 7-6, 6-4. the match was 8-1. Barbara Timm Finneran and Donovan won their 
easily handled her opponent 6-1, match boasting scores of 6-4, 6-2. 
6-1 and Louise· Purcell turned in Bracken and Lynn Griffin, co­winning scores of 6-1, 6-0. captain, teamed up for number Kathleen Bracken came back to win three doubles to win 6-3, 6-0. in the last two sets of her match The team is looking forward to 6-4, 6-3 after losing a tight first set taking on· Eastern Michigan this with a score of 4-6. Number four coming Saturday. A match against singles player Daniels continued Notre Dame at ND the following 
the winning trend with scores of Thursday will conclude the tennis 6-2, 6-f. Sue Starck chalked up yet season for SMC.
Eileen 0 'Grady====================::============================================================================== 
Women's lnterhall 

Women's Interhall football is looking good, or so the fans thought Sunday night at the big double headet on the astroturf; Walsh against Lyons,_and Badin against Lewis. Surprisingly enough. most of the stands were filled for both games. And it seemed they came to see some good football games, instead of for a good laugh, as was traditionally the case. 
There are several reasons for this improvement. The obvious reason is experience. As women's interhall begins its fifth year the girls are no longer pla-ying scrap football. Many of them are four year veterans and skilled at flag football. Evidence of this is seen in the much more accurate passing, more blocked passes and generally more intricate plays than ever before. 
During these past four years, the sport has become quite popular with the ladies, so much so that this year, Lewis hall entered a roster of 65 women for their team. All the teams are larger this year and all have at least two coaches, excepting Fr. Lally who solely coaches all of Walsh's team. 
Another reason for the improvement is the astroturf. For the first time the women are playing on the well-lit field, and the new setting definitely psyches them up. 
The better officiating also adds professionalism to the game. This year most of the games are called by at least three officials. Rich Hunter and his crew must be commended for not only their expertise, but comic relief as well . 
In any event, it all adds up to some good football. Sunday night in particular saw some fine action as Walsh barely edged out Lyons 18-16, and Lewis stunned Badin 18-6. Look for more action under the lights Thursday night as Badin and Lyons compete at 7, and Lewis and Walsh at 
8. 
Bourret·===========================================:=:========:=======================================:================================================================================================================= 
Who's the class of the N.L.? 

For those of you who enjoy basketball games that end with both teams scoring in the 140's, and foot­ball games in which the combatants combine for over 1000 yards in total offense, the National League Playoffs will be a spectical you won't want to miss. 
The Philadelphia Phillies and the Cincinnati Reds are the most explosive teamsin baseball and one need only look at the major National League . offensive statistics to predict the type of contests that will be played in this series. Five of the top eight batting averages, the top four run-scorers, four of the top five run producers (RBI's), and three of the top five homerun hitters will all be in attendance for the opening of the playoffs in Philadelphia on Saturday. Those of you planning on keeping score should bring at least three extra score sheets. It'll be a statistician's nightmare. 
It is difficult to predict what facet of the game will Qe the key to this series. The Phillies and Reds will not be able to rely on just their hitting strengths 
when they confront one another. Here is a look at the key strengths and weaknesses of each team in the important departments. 
PITCHING In a series in which the artificial turf is liable to turn red from the repeated scorching singles of Rose, Morgan, Cash and Schmidt, it will be o;urprising if anyone can go the distance. Pat Zachry of the Red is the only starting hurler with a sub 3.00 ERA for either team. Zachry's probable opponent in Saturday's opener will be Steve Carlton, who has a most impressive won-loss record and strikeout mark but a mediocre 3.21 ERA and a iendency to give up the long ball. 

I 
Tom Underwood vs. Fred Norman would be an excellent second game match-up if both could pitch in their respective home ball parks. Underwood was 12-1 last year in Vet Stadium but only 2-~1 on the road. This season he had a 10-5 record w1th a 3.35 ERA. but was hammered again on the road. Norman 
also loves the friendly atmosphere of his home parkl and will probably get a start in a fourth or fifth game, 
I 
if there is one. Gary Nolan, who is the youngest ten-year veteran int baseball. led the Reds in wins with 15. He was one of ~ seven Reds with ten wins or more, a major league record. Santo Alcala was a big surprise for sparky Anderson's club as he finished second in the league in a won-loss percentage. Anderson can call on many to eithef'start or put 
I 
the fire out in the late innings, as he has the most versatile staff in the league. Jack Billingham who had the second worst ERA in the league, Don Gullet, and Alcala could either start or finish games for the 
• 
Reds . The Reds may have a slight edge with their 
multitude of starters but the Phillies are blessed with three solid releivers in Tug McGraw, Gene Garber and Ron Reed. All three were ranked in the top 15 of the Fireman of the Year race. Reed, who still holds some Notre Dame basketball records, led the staff in saves with 14 and was fourth in the league in earned run average. 
The Reds will counter with Rawley Eastwick who led the league in earned run average and was credited with a league high 25 saves. But, in this series the bullpen performances will be the key, and Rawley can't face the pressure day in and day out. He has not 

... gotten the help rom Will McEnaney that was expected. EDGE: Phillies gain slight edge here. 
OUTFIELD: With so many sonar shots to be fielded on the pastures of Riverfront and the Vet defense will 

.. 
be a necessity. Cincinnati has the best in Caesar Geronimowho also had his best year by far offensively as he hit 310. Ken Griffey can also fly over the artificial turf and was the surprise hitter of the league finishing second in the batting average derby. George Foster carried the Reds the first three months 
of  the  season  and  coasted  to  a  29  HR,  and  
league- leading  121 R BI season.  ,  
The  Phillies  also  have  plenty  of  power  in  the  

outfield, but leave the defensive chores up to Gary Maddox. Maddox finished third in the league with a .330 average and is the defending centerfield Gold Glove winner. But Greg "the Bull" Luzinski does about an 8.4 forty and plays so close to the left-field fould pole that any shot up the left field alley is a sure double. Luzinski hit a solid .304, but hit only two of his 21 homers the .last month and a half. Jay Johnstone, who usually platoons with Ollie Brown, hit 
a .318 but only against right-handed pitching. He still made almost 500 plate appearances which shows how much the league respected the Phillie right side power. Ollie Brown had an off year hitting .254 and only went "downtown" five times. EDGE: Reds hit more consistently with power and possess a superior defense. 
INFIELD: Last season, Dave Cash aQd Larry Bowa became the f1rst second base-shortstop combination to hit over .300, but this season they failed to continue that consistency. Cash hit .284 including 9-11 at season's end, while Bowa fell to .248. both continued their excellent fielding however. The Reds keystone duo may not be as slick fielding, but have all-around talent. Joe Morgan is the most complete player in baseball as he ranked among the league's elite in six of eight key offensive areas. He was the first second baseman to knock in over 110 runs in 26 years. Dave Concepcion hit a solid .283 and drove in close to 70 runs. 
At the corners the Reds have Tony Perez, who is the only man in the last ten years to knock in over 90 runs each season, and Pete Rose, the team leader and the team's MVP. Rose Jed the league in runs, hits, doubles and head first slides. the Phillies counter with Mike Schmidt who Jed the majors in homeruns for the third consecutive year with 38, and Dick Allen, who hit 15 homers in an injury-suspension riddled season. EDGE: Reds have consistent offensive production at every position. 
SUMMARY: A key to this series will be the 
performance of , Johnny Bench, who hit an a,JCmic .237 with only 16 homers and 75 RBI'S. He is notorious for coming through the clutch and could salvage a disappointing year with a solid playoff. Ron Boone of Phillies got off to a hot start, but cooled off as the doubleheaders piled up. His ability to keep the Reds honest on the base paths could make or break the Phillies hopes. 
Another key is the all-important intangible team unity. Sparky Anderson runs a tight ship. He is also blessed with the finest team captain in baseball in Pete Rose. Danny Ozark is not as fortunate as his team leader, Dave Cash, is playing out his contract. Disatisfied players can ruin a team, just ask the Boston Red Sox. Ozark must also contend with Dick Allen, the Art Best of the major leagues. 
The Reds have been in the playoffs four of the last six seasons, and have basicafly the same team that went all the way last year. Although the Phillies won 17 of their last 22 games they blew 12 games of a 15 game lead between August 24 and September 17. Look for Cincinnati to paint the Phils red in one of the most exciting four game series in years. 







