
Du~ing Student Government election 
Off campus ballot boxes to be opened longer 
by Mike Kenahan residents and from noon to 6 p.m. from off-campus and two from the president and vice-president, tne bound to appear at any. The right Staff Reporter for off-campus students. North Quad. primary is scheduled for Mon. Feb. to appear at a debate is completely 23, and the run-off contest for
Keeping the ballot boxes open Pete Gottsacker. chairman of the Students are expected to vote for subject to the approval of the longer for off-campus students is Election Committee, in outlining one candidate from the quand they Gottsacker did not leave out the individual candidates," stressed 
the procedure stressed his hope for now live on; students who currently possibility that a run-off might not Gottsacker.
the only change in this year's elections for representatives to the all students to vote, especially live off-campus should vote for the be necessary in some cases. He Thus far there are three debate~· 
those off-campus. "Unfortuantely, off-campus representative. noted, "If a candidate gets SO per
Student Life Council (SLC) and for scheduled, all on Sun. Feb. 22. A1 
. in past elections, the off-campus cent of the ballots cast, that's· it.
student body president and vice Elections for the off-campus 7 p.m. one will be in the Grace Hal\ president. vote has always been very small in representative will be on Mon., He or she is automatically elect­pit. At 10 p.m. Zahm will sponsor a 
Each person votes in his respect­proportion to the number of possi­ed." 
Feb. 23. Voting for the representa­debate for both SLC candidates and 
ive hall; off-campus students vote ble voters," Gottsacker noted. tives from the North and South Mentioning debates, Gottsacker student body presidential and vie 
I
at boxes in the Huddle. The ballot In this year's elections, nine said that now it is a very difficult presidential candidates. Finally.
Quads will be conducted on Wed., 
,
boxes, which the Ombudsman Ser­candidates are running for postions Feb. 25. situation. "There are some there will be the traditional Stan­vice runs. arc open from 11:30 a.m. on SLC. There are three candidates debates scheduled, but it must be ford-Keenan debate, scheduled fm to 1 p.m. and 5 to 6:30 p.m. for for the South Quad position, four In the elctions for student body known that the candidates are not II p.m. 
i 
1 
j 
1 1 
j 
1 
1 

un~versdy of nofre dame sf mary's college Vol. X, No. 90 Friday, February 20, 1976 
Poet May Sarton reads from her works 
at Sophomore Literary Festival gathering 
by Jane Neff an lauging audience. She then 
wone various awards and honors 
Staff Reporter went on to describe Rose and 
throughout her career and has also 
May Sarton read selections of Harriet the two women running the 
received several endowments and 
her prose and poetry to an enthu­home as "mountains of flesh" with 
fellowships, including the National siastic crowd of over 400 in the no nursing experience. However, Endowment for the Arts in 1966. Library Auditorium. Sarton noted did work in
one an snails,
After writing a poem on You're the most lovely. wel­insane asylum, and the audience 
Sarton was initiated as an honorarycoming audience, and I'm so glad again laughed. 
member of the Snail Watchers' to be here," began the only female Jumping throughout the book', 
Society. This poem about snail's author to appear this year. She Sarton explained what she did not 
reactions to music particularly
then explained that her book, As read': All passages overflowed with 
(Continued on page 3)

We Are~ow, was written in a "fire irony and emphasized her grim of passion." theme of how dismal old age can 
This work, from which she read be. for the first half-hour of her When the elderly would not eat a presentation. relates the treatment disgusting lunch, Harriet and 

COUL recommendations released 
of old age in America. The setting Rose disposing of the untouched is a nursing home existing in New . food, decided that they should 
byChris Hopkins 

Hampshire. really keep a pig. They even tions have been proposed for those
Staff Reporter

"1 saw it, it's real." she said and explained to a visiting minister that recommendations which have not then went on to explain that their work was done out of "pure A progress report on the Com­yet been acted upon. Standish. a main character in her Christian concern.1' mittee on Undergraduate Life The most significant effect of the book was modeled after Pearly Throughout the book, Caro keeps (COUL) stated that 27 of the 34 COUL, according to this report, has Coc:a hiredman who helped build her sanity by listening to music and recommendations "have been im­been people on all levels realize her New Hampshire farm. He died poetry in her head. She cannot plemented". according to Ed that students, faculty and admini­in this home to which she refers. read much. as burning lights Byrne, student body president. strators are concerned about the Office of Student Affairs should Sarton read, vocally expressing wastes electricity. "Little by little Byrne explained when a recom­changing Notre Dame to make it a be accomplished.
each character's emotions while the spirit gets broken here," Caro mendation has been ''implemen­better place. They also realize only -The head staff of each hall her hands a<;tcd out the. parts. Her wrote in her journal. An Standish ted" this means, "people on the a concerted effort and concern will should meet regularly with Student book. written as a first-person expresses Sarton's ideas when he committee who originally voiced enable such change to occur. 
Affairs personnel to consider the

journal, tells of the life of Caro, an wails, "God bless me? God concern no longer feel any opposi­The following are some of the needs of students. t'ldcrly woman placed in the doesn't have he address." tion must be voiced." He added, more significant recommendations 
Finance Committee:nursing home by a brother·and his When her reading concluded, "in other words, the people are that have been implemented. 

-Future endowment fund cam­new wife. Sartori proposed a shift into satisfied with the recommenda­Residentlallty. 

paign should give special attention''I'm not mad. only old," Caro another world. She described tion." -Rectors and hall staff need to be and increased aid to students.

explains, "I'm in a concentration poetry as timeless, placeless and This progress report is based on selected according to carefully -Student government should take camp, for the old." She then always there. "It helps people in the COUL report presented in May, defined criteria which detail as an active part in helping studentsdescribes the home as a place concentration camps whether 1975 which represented the efforts accurately as possible the expecta­find jobs.
wherepeopledump their parents or they're nursing homes or other of administrators, faculty and stu­tions held of them. 
A controversey arose from the relatives exactly as if it were an kinds," she explained. dents to objectively evaluate Notre -Well-qualified educators could progress report when Jim Eder,ashcan. Her first poems concentrated on Dame's academic and social be encouraged to join the staff. 

Academic Committee representa­Although Sarton was describing light, happy moods. "February environment. The committee indi­-Regular evaluation of Student tive, stated five or six of hisdeplorable conditions, she kept the Days," written in New Hampshire cated then many of the reports Affairs personnel with student committee's recommendations hadaudience's attention by intersper­during that snowy month, spoke of were preliminary in nature and input should be done. 

not been implemented. However,sing bits of comedy. "The trouble being as drowsy as a turtle in thus would require further efforts Coed Housing: this fact did not disturb the figureis that old age is not interesting till winter living on light and shadow on the part of a tripartite group. 

-Office of Student Affairs began Byrne quoted. There are 27 of the 
and their changes. Final report the necessary _planning ·starting 34 recommendations which have 
Then she told of writing "Bears Furthermore, the reports labeled with the 1975-76 academic year so been implemented , according to in a Waterfall" to describe a huge "final" were complete only in the as to implement a coeducational the progress report. However, four brown bear in St. Louis that she sense that those issues considered student living program. of six of the Academic Committee's watched sitting on a fountain had been researched to the satis­Students In Off-campus Communi­recommendations had not been cooling his rump. "When he got faction of the members of the ty: implemented. 
up, he set free a geyser," she committee. COUL does not feel -The heads of neighborhood Concern for Business Collegeexclaimed to the audience's de­that the report is finished or ever groups should be mailedwithnames The most significant recommen­light. 
could be finished. and addresses of students in their dation of the Academic CommitteeSarton, born in Belgium in 1912, While COUL is satisfied with the area. is concerned with making a serious was the daughter of George Sarton, report and its initial effects on the -Separate alphabetical listings effort to alleviate the overcrowded,the renowned historian. Her family community, it feels the report is not should be drawn up for off-campus understaffed condition of the Col­emigrated to the United States in sufficient as it now stands. students to enable them to contact lege of Business Administration, so1916 to escape the German in­If the Notre Dame commitment other students in their immediate that it might better serve studentsvasion, and became naturalized to establishing "an environment area. both within and outside the college.
. citizens In 1924. 

which fosters personal growth in Disciplinary Logie: Edcr explained he met with Dean Sarton was educated in Massa­the Christian ideals" is to be -A Jetter be sent to the Dean of Ryan of the Business College lastchusetts and went into the theater realized, then some vehicle for Students' Office declaring that October to discuss the areas ofafter completing her education. 
continued evaluation is necessary, removal from campus is no longer concern. Eder has not beenShe has held a series of teaching according to Byrne. an acceptable sanction fordisciP._Iin­contacted by anyone since then.
positions at various colleges. 

The follow-up of the COUL ary offenses. Eder explained the greatest con­She has written some 30 books of report indicated action has already Student Affairs: cern lies in the number of profes­both poetry and fiction. She has been taken in regard to many of the -The creation of student groups sors being hired by the Business gained prestige and fame through recommendations. Furthermore, to act as advisory and consultive College, if any, for next year. Also her numerous works. Sarton has tentative plans and possible solu-bodies to the departments within 
(eontlnued on page 6) 






Friday, February 20, 1976
the observer 
---News Briefs--­
~~~~~~~~~=Nation~ 
Patty invokes fifth 
SAN FRANCISCO AP-Patricia Hearst invoked her 5th amend­ment privilege against self-incrimination five times Thursday during a heated legal argument over whetehr jurors could hear about a mysterious year in her underground travels. 
.,__On Campus Today-.. 
friday, february 20, 1976 
9 am-4:30 pm 
2 pm 3 pm 3:30pm 
4:15pm 
4:30pm -colloquium, "new automorphic cusp forms for orthogonal groups of indefinite signature," by 
prof steven rallis,  rm 226, computer center  
5:15pm  -mass and dinner, bulla shed  
7:30pm  -hockey, "michigan  state at  notre  dame,"  ace  
8 pm  -1976 ice capades, ace  

8 pm -world travel series, "expedition peru," by john ebert, o'laughlin aud, tickets: $2 8 pm -sophomore literary festival, "stanley jasspon kunitz," library aud. 10 pm-1 am -nazz, dave shaheen, al rabideau, paul hatem, mike ball 
saturday, february 21, 1976 
12,4,8 pm -1976 ice capades, ace " 7·30 pm -hockey, "michigan stat~ at n~~re dame,. ace , 8 pm -sophomore literary festival, galway kmnell, 
poet and fictionist, library aud. . 10pm-1am -nazz, steve paspek, bill carey, mana costello 
sunday, february 22, 1976 
2,6 pm 

3 pm 4,7, 10 pm 6 pm 
;; pm 8 pm 
A. A. meeting is *The Observer 
slated for Monday 
The first open discussion of the subject of drinking at Notre Dame University is scheduled for 7:30 
p.m. 
Monday, Feb. 23 in the ACC auditorium. A Michigan State University official known as "Red" 

K. 
will speak. 



The meeting's sponsors hope it will be attended by all persons with a concern for drinking problems, their own or those of a friend. Other campuses where similar meetings have been con­ducted report success with the program's discussion format. 
The ACC auditorium is located between Gates One and Two on the ground level and is generally used by athletic teams to view game film!i_. 




Itnigljts 

NEW CONCEPT in hairstyling. for Men IOCATED on our lower level with Its own private entrance way. COMPLETE PRIVACY in our individual styling units. SIP COFFEE hy the fireplace in a relaxed atmosphere. FAST SERVICE for carefree cuts and blow styles. WE FEATURE RK products. 
MANICURES for men  $4  PRECISION CUTS  $5  
HAIRCUTS  $4  BLOW STYLING  $4.50  
PERMANENT WAVING by NATURAL MAN  $25  

$1.00 OFF A PRECISION CUT WITH BLOW STYLING WITH YOUR NO OR SMCID. 

en'~ (a~tlt
54533 TERRACE LANE 
Tues., Wed., Sat. 8:30 -5:30, Thurs. & Fri. 8:30 -8:30 
PHONE 277 -1691 
" ... • • t •• • p • t • t • ~ "· ... ' • I • ~I ...., ... t f'.;~...... ' " I' • ' t ........ t 
-interview and slide presentation, lay volunteer program in Utah, career development center ­stnc 
-workshop, galway kinnell and stanley kunitz, library lounge 
-workshop, galway kinnell, library aud. 

-philosophy perspective series, "is the method C!f conjecture and refutations the method of SCI­ence?" by dr. adolph grunbaum, library aud.. -lecture "the impact of married women on familyincoiT]~,'' by robin bartlett, denison univ., rm 105, law bldg. 
-1976 ice capades, ace 

-lecture, "ami peterson, on stoneware," isis gallery -film "black orpheus," engineering aud. -mee'ting, "state chairs and credential commit­
tee '' rm 127; nieuwland -lect~re, "will peterson on lithographs," isis gallery -seminar, "women in ministry," sponsored by advisory council of women students, library aud. 
Night Editor: Dan Sanchez 
Assistant Night Editors: Mary Janca and Chris Smith 
Blessed layout Staff: Neal Mongold, Paul Schappler, Joe Bauer 
Day Editor: Marjorie lrr 
Copy Readers; Kathy Mills and Mary Egan 
Features: Val Zurblis, Gregg 
B. Bangs and W.S. Nichols 
Sports: Fred Herbst, Paul Stevenson and Tom Kruczek 
Typists: Camille Arrieh, Mary Tobin and Morey Blinder 
Night Controller: Martha Fanning. 
THE 
... . 

-to··~ .... ; ........ ~ ........~..... -·-~ 
ir....................
,. 
~ HOW ~ ~ STRONG ARE ~ 

WWW festivities I YOU!?! 1 kick off at Kubiak's IFIND ouT IN AN J 
:~~e~:r 
p 

Wacky Winter Weekend will commence today at 3 p.m. at Kubiak's where the ND-SMC junior classes are sponsoring a happy hour. 
Other events for today, "Good Friday," include a disco dance and the Wacky Wabbit contest. The weekend will be hightlighted by the appearance of comedian Robert Klein Saturday night in Stepan Center. "Prizes · for Saturday's event winners are Distillery gift certificates,'' emphasized Chair­man John Rooney. 
''A total of $285 worth of these 
can be won," he added. 

Tonight's disco dance, spon­
sored by the St. Mary's Social 
Commission, will be held in the 
LaFortune ballroom from 9 p.m. to 
1 a.m. The disco will be emceed by 
WSND's "Mama Cocoa," Bonita 
Bradshaw, and Carl "Catfish" 
Penn and will also feature dance 
contests. WSND will broadcast live 
from LaFortune after the hockey 
o~mP. 

The week-long Wacky Wabbit 
contest will climax at the dance. 
Those wishing to guess the Wab­
bit's whereabouts will be asked to 
place their names in a bin. A disc 
jockey will draw a name and that 
person will guess hte mystery 
location. 

This process will continue until 
someone guesses correctly. If no 
one guesses the Wabbit's location 
correctly, additional clues will be 
provided. 

Free hot dogs and cokes will be 
served for "Sinful Saturday" after­
noon in the vicinity of Notre 
Dame's Holy Cross Hall. 

At 1 p.m. a te!lm comprised of 
Notre Dame hockey cheerleaders 
and other women will face a team 
of off-campus men in a makeshift 
hockey ·game on the field next to 
Holy Cross. The men will use 
brooms and the women will use 
regular hockey sticks to guide a 
tennis ball around the field. 

An ice cream eating contest is 
scheduled to follow the t, JCkey 
game. The first 25 people to sign 
up will compete to see who can eat 
a half-gallon of ice cream in the 
shortest time. 

A sack race, an egg toss and a 
basketball dribbling race are also 
planned for the afternoon. 

The final race for the afternoon 
will be a "dog-sled race" by 
four-man teams. Competing teams 
must supply their own vehicles for 
the race. 

The Observer is published Monday through Friday and weekly during the sumrer session, except during the exam; and vacation perioas. The Observer is publiShed by the students Of the Univ. of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $18 ($1 0 per semester) fro'll The Obserwr, Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Sealnd Class postage paid, Notre Dame, IN 46556. 
: SCHOLASTIC'S EDITORIAL BOARD ! * * 
: PROUDLY ANNOUNCES THE : 
* *
* *
* * 
a1 09th SPRING ELECTION GALA! 
* * 
a GRAND PRIZE: ONE v·EAR'S a! TENURE AS i 
* *

! EDITOR-IN-CHIEF i 
: IN'I'ERESTEilCONIEiTAN'IS ARE INVITED : 
:  TO SUBMIT RESUMES TO SAlLY STANTON  :  
:  BY 5 P.M.  ON FEB.  27, 1976,  AT  THE  :  
: :*  SCHOlASTIC OFFICE. FOR FUR'IHER INFORMATION, CONTACT SAlLY AT 7419  :*  
OR6728.  :  




~ ARM ~ 
~ WRESTLING ~ ITOURNAMENT! I ~ Soonsored By ~
I CAUSE, I 
~ An Organization ~ ~To Aid The Elderly~
if...................... 
PHONE 232-791 





JULIO'S 
NOW HAS 
PAN 
, , ,


PIZZA... 

Wa~er N\atthau & George Burns "'NeilStmoris -The Su,!1Shtne Boys"·o "'"''""~ Richarq_Benjam1n 
SPECIAL SPRING SALE 

IKodakI 
INSTAMATIC200UTFIT 
INCLUDES CAMERA, MAGICUBE. MAGICUBE EXTENDER. FILM, 
WRIST STRAP, INSTRUCTIONS. 
SPECIAL 

$24.75 
LIST $39.95 
AULT CAMERA CO. 127 S . MICHIGAN SOUTH BEND 

233-6145 

SinQers, musicians, dancers, technicians, maQiclans, banjo players, acrobats, pianists, puppeteers, novelty acts •.. It takes all kinds of talent to entertain Cedar Point's 2,500,000 summer QUests, and the search Is on. So, check the audition schedule, polish up your act and come show us your talent. Technicians, come tor an Interview with Cedar Point's Live Shows. 
Open only to registered college students and graduating high school seniors. 
AUDITION AND INTERVIEW SCHEDULE 
Pittsburgh, Pa.-Fri., Feb. 27, 1976 William Penn Hotel Mellon Square Tech Interviews 4:00 Auditions 5:00 
Cincinnati, 0.-Sun., Feb. 29, 1976 Stouffer's Cincinnati Inn 150 W. 5th Street Tech Interviews 3:00 Auditions 4:00 
Louisville, Ky.-Mon., Mar.1,1976 Sheraton Inn-Louisville East 1-64 at Hurstbourne LaPe Tech Interviews 4:00 Auditions 5:00 
Live Entertainment, Cedar Point, Sandusky, Ohio 44870 
Indianapolis, Ind.-Tues., Mar. 2, 1976 Stouffer's Indianapolis Inn 2820 North Meridan Tech Interviews 4:00 Auditions 5:00 
Detroit, Mich.-Thurs., Mar. 4,1976 Sheraton-Southfield Hotel 17017 West Nine Mile Road at 1-696 Tech Interviews 4:00 Auditions 5:00 
Sandusky, 0.-Sat., Mar. 6, 1976 Cedar Point Centennial Theatre Tech Interviews 10:00 Auditions 11:00 



Friday, February 20, 1976 
the observer

Four vie for position 





Off-campus SLC candidates outline platforms 
by Barb Langhenry 
Staff Reporter 
The Student life Council (SLC) elections are approaching with primaries scheduled for Monday. Tom Digan, John Kinney, Len Moly and John Steinman are contending for the off-campus representative spot. 
Tom Digan, a junior, states, "The SLC is currently discussing social space. I believe that there are more important things an<;! that the SLC should deal with things more fundamental to the stu dents." 
Digan continued, saying that he was not sure of the possibility of changing parietals, or instituting co-ed dorms, "but these things must get started." 
U.S. radicalism to be examined at American Future conference 
by Katy McEntee Staff Reporter 
The Student Committee on the American Future has organized a conferent·e entitled "The American Future: A Radical Perspective" to take place Mon., Feb. 23, Tues., Feb. 24 and Wed., Feb. 25. The conference consists of a series of lectures and panel discussions ''to revive the traditions of radical America and inspire a hope for the future." 
The Academic Commission of Notre Dame's Student Government, St. Mary's Student Government, 
May Sarton reads poetry at Library 
(Continued from page 1) pleased the audience. 
Two poems on Greece followed, then Sarton asked, "I have six more poems that will take 20 minutes. Can you bear it?" A round of applause answered. 
She read "Letter To An Indian's Friend" and explained she was getting to be the Indian's age and also watched the sun rise each 111orning over the sea. 
,ln her linal poem of the night, 
"A Recognition for Pearly Coe," 
she spoke of Pearly and Brancusi 
and their talents as farmer and as 
artist. "They unclouded the 
doudt·d vi~ion, ''she said, referring 
to her friends. 
After a linal standing ovation, 
Sarton moved to the Library 
Lounge to answer questions. She 
autographed books and spoke to 
a~piring writers. 
.................... 
t 
:•: 
•
: 
:: 
: 
•+ 
: Available Fri. afternoon at : 
+ SU ticket office and + 
+ Sat. at the door. ., 



~••••••••••••••••••• 
W W W PRESENTS t 
COMEDIAN :
•


ROBERT KLEIN : 
•

SATURDAY , FEB.21 : 8:00PM : 
. 

Stepan Center :
•

Tickets $2.00 : 
Digan cited the possibility of a student strike as an exhibition of students' power. "I wonder what the reaction of the adminstration would be," he said. "The SLC should be the thorn in the side of the administrlltion," he continued. 
John Kinney, sophomore, stated that he is most concerned with making sure there is a good means of communication between on and off-campus students. He said off-campus students are "left out and do not get the same and all of the necessary information." 
Kinney proposed the formation of an off-campus committee with a regular staff that would meet on a regular basis. This committee, he said, would integrate on the off­campus students by being open 
CILA and the Third World Fund will· sponsor the conference. Representatives of each of these groups compose the Student Com­mittee on the American Future which has organized the conference under the direction of faculty advisors including Fr. Claude Po­merleau and Dr. A. Peter Walshe. 
Walshe, director of African St­udies said, ''The conference is designed to recognize 
that there has been a long radical tradition in America." He pointed out. "Even the Constitution in its time was viewed as radical." 
Walshe beli~ves the American people should not forget about this radical tradition in 1976, but rather "build from that past a hope and direction for the future." 
Walshe stated the real tensions in present society are the result of a conflict between "America's hope for an egalitarian order and its economic injustices such as mal­distribution of income and unemp­loyment" 
Walshe believes these problems are coupled with an atmosphere of 
BARAERS & HAIRSTYLISTS 
FULl. SERVICE UI\JISEX SHOP 
ROCCO'S ROCCO'S ROCCO'S ROCCO'S 
531 N. Midligan 

233 4957ROCc0 Is 
and allowing both types of student to come and express their views. 
"The off-campus students are the most neglected and the SLC should make more policies concerning them," stated Len Moty , a junior. As an example, he said the university should look into ob­taining apartments in areas not so suspectible to crime, possibly on campus, but where parietals and rules are not involved. 
Moty stated the students should 
be more informed about what the 
SLC is doing. "They should also 
know that they can have a definite 
input by submitting a petition 
signed by SO or more students.'' 
Also featured in his platform are areas for students to gather in the early evening, like the Nazz and 
"psychological malaise" in a cul­
ture dominated by consumerism. 
He defined the core of the conference as asking "a very big question--What do we mean by the good life? What is our hope for the future?" 
Scheduled guest speakers for the conference are Harvey Cox, prof­essor from Harvard Divinity Sch­ool; Rosemary Ruether, professor of Histori~al Theology from How­ard University; Finley Campbell, director of Afro-American Studies at the University of Wisconsin; Lester Thurow, professor of Econ­omics from M.l.T.; Sheldon Gellar, assistant professor of Political Sci­ence at Indiana University; and Carl Estabrook, doctoral candidate in Historical Theology at Harvard. 
Advisor Walshe called these lecturers "speakers in the proph­etic tradition who will criticize the existing order and plot new direc­tion," which he feels is 'the thoroughly American thing to do.'' 
Walshe said the conference is not "an alternative ·to the official Bicentennial programs, but rather as a supplement" because "it looks to the future and not just the past." 
Darby's, but not as late at night 
have a communication problemwith parietals. ''They may be because students are spread apart.
a long time coming,'' Moty noted, "This,"he continued, "results in ''but the SLC and students should what seems to be apathy."continue to apply pressure for 
He commented the communica­co-ed dorms and eventually elimin­tion problem is three-fold among
ating parietals." the campus, the off-campus area Junior, John Steinman, stated 
and the off-campus students them­the off-campus people seem to selves. 

i··riMM·p·iRrY·sf<5ifE···! 
!OPEN: MON-SAT 9am-11pmi : SUNDAY 12noon 11 pm : ! COLD BEER,WINE, LIQUOR, ! : GORMET FOODS : : 3114 S. 11 St. NILES, MICHIGAN: 
• "BIGGEST LITTLE : • LIOUQR STOR~ IN MTrJ.Il('! AN" •
···•••••1f•••••••••••••,.·~•·~'\¥~1 ~'''~······ 
SUNDAY MASSES (Main Church) 
5:15 p.m Sat. Rev. Robert Griffin, C.S.C. 
9:30 a. m Sun. Rev. Dan Jenky, C.S.C. 
10:45 a.m. Sun. Rev. :&lward A. Malloy, C.S.C. 
12:15 p.m Sun. Rev. Bill Toohey, C.S.C. 
Evensong will be at 4:30 p.m in I.Aldy Chapel. 
Homilist will be Rev. :&lward Malloy, C.S.C. 
1 HEARTS OF THE WEST 
7:30 9:30 M-F 1:3o 3:30 s:3o s-s 
~ L;~!;:~ ~? ~~o~~~~N 
l~f;iler-t-ic )use r=lix 
255 -9575 
---------~-----------------------~­
the observer Friday, February 20, 1976
4 


SlF--Iast but not least 
stanley kunitz 
"His is the art of creating poetry for poetry's sake." Stanley Kunitz, the poet's poet with an imagination of the highest pitch, was born in 1905 in Worcester, Massachusetts. Graduating summa cum laude from Harvard in 1926, he received his masters the following year from the same university. Since this point Kunitz has distinguished himself not only as poet but as essayist, editor and translator 
Throughout these years of slow, careful production. Kunitz's poetry has been described as feminine and lyrical, full of tenderness and a delicacy of feeling. Yet it has been labelled savage and, more recently, marked by disturbing honesty. The poetry appearing in Intellectual Thin_gs (1930), his first book, is among the earliest to concentrate on the raw, solipsist self. It explores the self as it relates to the frustration and chaos of this age. These early poems are concerned with the unknown inner of infinite proportions. Passport to the Wars, published later that year, is concerned with the power of a mechanical environment over mind. This problem of corruption is constant in Kunitz's poetry where "under the pressure of one failure, energies that might have been concentrated upon service of human­ity of the love of God are dissipated in frustration and hysteria." Selected Poems 1928-1958 with its subtleties of perceptions won him the Pulitzer Prize for Poetry in 1959. His latest collection is I~ Testing Tree (1970) 
Kunitz sees himself as a eitzen of the world and leaves moral responsibility to the individual in his writing. The human element emerges through imagery of earth, season, vegetation. Kunitz sees the self threatened and in " Night Letter" tells us "I suffer the twentieth century." The self must employ the act of writing to 
'-combat the disorder and chaos of twentieth 
records 

When the endless servitude of woman will be overthrown, when she will live for herself and by herself, man • hitherto abominable, • having given her her release, she will be a poet, she also! Women wiD discover some of the un­known! Will her worlds of Ideas differ from ours? . She will discover strange unfathomable, repellent, delicious things; we shall take them, we shall comprehend them. Arthur Rimbaud-Lettre Du Voyant 
Patti Smith is a young poet who has emerged from the New York underground to become a major rock and roll star. Her first album, Horses, is a beautiful mixture of loud, agressive music and evocative poetry. The poetry is the most important aspect of her work. Though the musical influence of Lou Reed and much of the city's underground runs through much of her work it is of secondary importance. · The music would simply not be possible without the words and realizing this producer John Cale always keeps Patti's vocals in the foreground. 
Horses owes most of its poetic influences to Arthur Rimbaud, the revolutionary French poet who lived during the latter half of the 19th Century. Like much of Rimbaud's poetry, Patti's is often surreal­istic and hallucinatory. In songs like "Birdland" and "Land", disparate images merge in an evocative poetic landscape to create visions that suggest several mean­ings. Her poetic visions are parallel worlds in which one experiences a deranging of all the senses· a hallucinatory trip on words. Patti is able to do this by splitting reality in her songs between the real and the fantastic, dazzling one with her continual movement between them. 
Along with the continual flights from reality to fantasy, other motifs occur frequently in Horses. These include splitting of personality as a means of transcending reality ("Break It Up", "Birdland", "Land"), suggestions of les­bianism and homosexuality ("Gloria", "Redondo Beach"), death and rebirth ("Eiegie", "Land"), hope and despair, love and religion. The songs are thus so dense and complex that any attempt at a simple explanation in a 500 word review century experience. In more recent work there is a new open style. A separation of self becomes evident. 
In response to criticism that his poetry is obscure, Kunitz re-establishes the role of poet. ''A poet cannot concern himself with being fair to the reader. Time will tell. All poems contain a degree of mystery, as poetry is a discovery of one's hidden self.... Poetry is not concerned with communication; it has its roots in magic, incantation, and must be idealistic and selfish, independent of his audience, but "true to language --.true to man himself." 
In addition to his writing, Kunitz's works as editor include several collected bio­grap!-Jies and since 1969, the Yale Series of Younger Poets. He has lectured widely, including an extensive lecture tour of the Soviet Union and Poland under the auspices of the US-USSR cultural exchange agreement. He has translated and has filled the role of professor and poet-in-resi­dence on a string of American campuses. Kunitz is presently at Columbia University 
where he is an Adj\mct Professor of Writing at the graduate level. Kunitz gives his aim in teaching: "Essentially what I try to do is to help each person rediscover the poet within himself. I say 'rediscover' because I am convinced that it is a universal human attribute to want to play with words, to beat out rhythms, to fashion images, to tell a story, to construct forms.... The day is always in hili possession: what prevents him from using it is mainly inertia, the stultification of the senses as a result of our one-sided educational conditioning and the fear of being made ridiculous or ashamed by the exposure of his feelings." 
by 


dilly tante 

would not only be ridiculous but an 
injustice to the artist. The songs/poems 
must be experiences as a step into a poetic 
consciousness that will not only reveal a· 
greater insight of the work, but an 
understanding of one's own consciouss­
ness. For in Horses Patti Smith's lyrical 
creations are glances into our own disor­
dered minds. The structures, tones and 
imagery often reveal a conflict between the 
poet's dreams And reality, joy and despair, 
love and death. Here the words and the 
way they are used function in counterpoint, 
the one diametrically epposed to the other. 
We find that our own minds work in very 
much the same way. 

The music however, is the element that draws the listener's immediate attention on first listening. Sparse yet forceful it contains most of the primitive elements of the New Y{)rk underground. This is not at all surprising when one considers the fact that Patti has surrounded herself with members of this circle. All of the original music on the lp was written or co-written by either Richard Sohl, Ivan Kral and Lenny Kaye of her band (Kaye the lead guitarist and a former critic for the Village Voice ), Alan Lanier, the keyboardist for Blue OysterCult or Tom Verlaine of Television (an avantgarde NY band already drawing comparisons with the Velvet Underground). Finally, the producer of Horses, John Cale, was an original member of the Velvets which has long been considered the most influential NY band. 
Two of the most interesting songs on the lp are Patti's interpolations of the rock classics, "Gloria" and "Land of a Thous­and Dances." In "Gloria," Patti turns a simple teenage love song into a sensuous clelbration of eroticism. With Richard Sohl's pounding piano backed by Kaye's monotonously churning guitar, Patti cuts into the song with a frenzied and passion­ate vocal. "Land", the most complex song on the album, starts with a story of a locker room assault. Patti is backed only by a repetitive two-chord drone on lead that grows louder as the confrontation leads to either an ambiguos murder or homosexual rape. As the boy "crashes against the locker'', he sees images of horses. This 


galway kinnell 
Galway Kinnell, a contemporary Ameri­can poet and translator, will be reading at Notre Dame on Saturday, February 21, in conjunction with the Sophomore Literary Festival. His works have been widely published and he is well known for his dynamic style of presentation. 
Kinnell was born in Providence, Rhode Island, in 1927. He was educated at Princeton and the University of Rochester, and was a Fulbright Fellow in Paris in 1956-1957. He has been poet-in-residence at several universities since then and has won many awards and fellowships for his poetry, including a Guggenheim fellow­ship, the Cecil Hemley poetry prize, and the Brandeis University Creative Arts award. 
Kinnell has been active in political and social reform. In 1963 he was a member of the Congress for Racial Equality and a field worker with CORE. He was jailed for civil rights activities in Selma, Alabama. He was also strongly against the Vietnam war and was one of those active in the anti-war poetry readings of the 60's. 
Kinnell's outlook on life has been described as Sisyphean; that is, he feels man finds his triumph in the struggle of life, not in any tangible accomplishment. Reflecting this attitude, his poetry is 
· serious, almost grim; but there may be found in it elements of hope for the endurance of mankind. He concentrates on themes of nature, time and death and works with them to produce very personal and haunting poems. 
Although his early works were written in a traditional rhyming style, Kinnell has since stated his opinion that free verse is the only possible medium for an American poet. He has said that " ...the real value of getting rid of rhyme and meter is to throw the responsibility for the poem wholly on speech itself.'' Therefore, he doesn't agree with poets who arrange their poems on the 
page in unconventional forms. He feels this 
is nothing but a new device instead of the 
old ones, and that one cannot face the 
shortcomings of the poem's language with 
this camouflage. 
The Book of Nightmares, published in 
1971, is Kinnell's latest book. It is a series 
of ten interrelated poems and the subject 
of most of them is death. A review of The 
Book of Nightmares in Poetry magazine 
said, "(Kinnell's) nightmares are recoun­
ted here with an eye for awful detail." 
Compared to the mystical quality of The 
Book of Nightmares and Body Rags 
(published in 1968), The Avenue Bearing 
the Initial of Christ into the New World is 
varied in style. Avenue takes selections 
from 1946 to 1964. Thus it is possible to 
trace the development of Kinnell's style in 
this volume. 
In the title poem, Kinnell gives us a view of life along Avenue C on the Lower East side of New York City. He also gives us an insight into his view of God. 
Children set fires in ashbarreis, 
Cats prowl the fires, scraps of fishes 
bum. 
A child lay in the flames. 
It was not the plan. Abraham 
Stood in terror at the duplicity. 
Isaac whom he loved lay In the flames. 
The Lord turned away washing 
His hands without soap and water 
IJke a eommori houseUy. 
The Avenue Bearing the lriitlal of Christ Into the New World, as well as Body Rags and The Book of Nightmares are now on sale at the bookstore. 
by 

evvi sandeen , 



thorses' --hallucinatory trip on words 
section is ominously chanted with the drone getting louder and the im:1.gery more fantastic until it segure into an explosive rock and roll dance number that asks us if we know how to pony. Sex, death and experience all merge until we are only left "dancing to the simple rock and roll sound" in a "sea of possibilities." 
This is a difficult and important album.
· 

•.: ~asJeland 
Next week's offerings from the networks start out strong but faulter pitifully by Thursday. For you blood-and-guts people, the master of police . bruitality, Clint Eastwood, will be again reducing the population in "Dirty Harry" on Saturday night on channel 16. It has been successfully argued that Clint Eastwood is the finest screen psychopath since King Kong and"'Dirty Harry"is state's evidence #1. ABC counters brilliantly with 
S. W.A.T. but for you fortunate people with cable TV,there is a respite in the form of a "Monster Concert", a PBS special with 20 pianists. The rest of the night is condusive to bar-hopping or tiddly-winks playing or whatever. Nice Errol Flynn movie at 2:10 
a.m. on channel 9 for you high-freaks out there. 
You can sleep late Sunday morning, that is unless you want to hear what Oral Roberts has to say or what some half-baked politician doesn't have to say. The good stuff starts later in the evening with a Jacques Cousteau special on whales (chan­nel 28, at 7) and comes to a head with the highly acclaimed movie, "The Last Detail" 
In it, Jack Nicholson and Otis Young are two Navy "lifers" that are assigned to take Meadows, a sweet, naive 18-year old to prison for slugging an officer. Deciding that the boy will need some memories to keep him going for his 8-year stretch, they show him the town. 'After 3 days and 180 
1 beers, they get him to the brig. A salty but 
• emotional winner. 
~ 
dominick salemi 
Its release immediately finds Patti Smith at the vanguard of rock with Bob Dylan, John Cale, and Brian Eno; artists who are establishing important new directions in popular music. Horses is as masterful a work as Blonde on Blonde, the third Velvets lp, Layla, and Berlin. like those albums it must be considered as one of the finest rock and roll albums ever made . 

==· ·v···~aeo ~ ;·~;;,i,~i: ···;;0:::::::::::;::::0·:h:·:.::::•== 
half of ''In her Majesty's Secret Service," 
one of the later James Bonds flicks (8:30 on =·· 
channel 28). "Rich Man, Poor Man" follows and Monty Python is opposite it on Channel 34. Tuesday's offerings range • from soul-searching to soul-raising with : "M.A.S.H." closing out their fourth year with a poignet story about a TV newscaster coming to the 4077th to do a documentary about how these soldiers feel about the war. The show was filmed in black and white to simulate a 'SO's documentary and the actor's responses are largely impro­vised and impromptu. The devoted followers of "Star Trek" will be pleased to hear that Moonbase Alpha will nearly be blown out of space in this episode of "Space 1999" on channel 9 at 8 pm. 
Try to miss Wednesday night altogether if you can, unless you really want to see ~oy Rodgers and Dale Evans on the "Tony Orlando and Dawn Show", (8 pm on channel2). Have they no pity for us? Thursday might be brighter if "The Lindbergh Kidnapping Case" is well acted. (8 pm on channel16). Otherwise, you are doomed to an evening of cop shows and war movies. Perhaps the bars tonight. 
Friday ends the week in the utter pits of videodomwith ahalf-witted love story· (this time, they both die), an unbaked roasting of Dean Martin, and an -rancid version of "Jaws". The intellectu.J high-point of the night is "Austin City Limits" on 34 at 10 
p.m. so you can see what kind of night it will be . Maybe, the bars again tonight. 
All in all, the week offers the TV viewer an excellent change to catch up on all the : schoolwork that they have been putting off • until a slow week. Well, the slow week has : come, kids. : 
I 
j 

Friday, February 20, 1976 
the observer 5 ~ I

Letters 
to a Lonely God I 
l I

it was a lovely way to spend an evening I I 
j 

There was a girl friend I had once: a warm, lovely girl, whose body always seemed to glow with light as though she had slept with the sun. Being shy, I never touched that body much, though I wanted to, but l always dreamed of the firmness I would find under my fingertips, as though my hands were playing with the shapes of ripened fruit. Her name was Jane, and l was in love with her, l guess; I hoped that she was in love with me. From the first moment I met her, I thought her a doll, because she had the kind of beauty that doll makers like to use as a pattern. There 
were blue eyes, of course, ·and there was the soft. braided gold of her hair which she wore in a crown like a princess. Her face was not the least bit like a flower, but it was so full of sunshine that golden chrysanthemums could have been her handmaids. Her nose needed freckles to be perfect, I always thought; I would have imported those freckles, if I could have; it was the least that a lover could do. But there was a war on, and girls' faces that season came only in peaches and cream. 
The year was 1943, and Jane worked after school as a Campfire Girl selling war bonds and stamos in a booth at Wool­worth's. Girls in those days were impor­
tuned in a popular song not to "sit under the apple tree /With anyone else but me"; "me" being some G.!. Joe off in the war-zones. But for two years, until I started college, I was the kid that Jane sat under the apple tree with, though, for a while, I suspected she would have pre­ferred me as a Marine she could have knitted sweaters for. On our first date, we attended a Frank Sinatra movie, and the big song was, "This Is A Lovely Way To Spend An Evening". Afterwards, we walked for miles on the summer grass of the Promenade and the Boulevard, and \ carried her shoes in my pocket as she went 
nShe belongs to the dream I had of being ordained; she is part of the mystery of my uocation." 

why can't women be ordained? 
For years lay women were content with the ·interpretation of their role in the Catholic church--sitting in the pew, running bake sales, directing the parish choir. Sisters obediently taught religious classes and visited the sick. But as a result of the feminist movement and the emphasis of the Second Vatican Council on personhood, 
womenare questioning these stereotypes. They want leadership positions in pastoral ministry and the sacramental rights which bless them. This growing awareness forsees women doning priestly vestments and consecrating bread and wine as the complete fulfillment of their role. 
To examine the scope of women's rise in the church, the Advisory Council of Women Students is sponsoring a panel discussion, "Women in Ministry" Sunday, Feb. 22. 8:00 in the library auditorium. Sr. Cathline Hu~hes of the Murphy Center for Liturgical Research will moderate the panel consisting of Dr. Elizabeth Fiorenza, Dr. Josephine Ford, and Dr. William Storey, associate professors of theology at Notre Dame, as well as Msgr. John Egan, director of the Center for Pastoral and Social Ministry. 
"Ordination will come about not through a wild revolution but through a peaceful on-going dialogue. It is our duty to keep this dialogue alive," says Sr. Cathline Hughes. Sr. Hughes attended the nation­wide ordination conference, "Women in the Future Priesthood Now" which was held last November in Detroit. She feels that women have the ''right to test" the vocation to which they feel called. 
"Women had more of a role in the .church of the Middle Ages then they do now," barefoot. It seemed so natural for her to be the barefoot child of summer; but for me, barefoot would have been merely clumsy; so I scuffed along beside her in my Tom MeAns', cursing the fate of having fat feet. It she felt like Ariel dating Caliban, she never mentioned it; and at the end of the walk, we said to each other: "If this is puppy love, what can the real thing be like?" It was, indeed, a lovely way to spend an evening; and in all the years afterwards, it has been my most perfect memory of the time when l was young, and the world was seventeen. 
commented  Dr.  Storey,  head  of  the  
Graduate  Progra m of Liturgical  Studies.  
•  

I was thinking of Jane at quarter past four this morning as I trudged home through the rain with Darby from the Club O'Gill. Seven hours earlier, in a meeting with some Freshmen in one of their colloquia, a young man had asked me the question of myself: · 
"Why the priesthood?" 
I answered: "Why not the priesthood?" 
"Celibacy," he replied. 
If you have-wa.lked under a June moon with a girl who reminds you of noonday ...if you have smelled the perfumes in her hair, and you have almost touched with your fingertips the laughter and the caring in her warm flesh; and her hand touches your hand as though she thought your being shy and clumsy were signs and promises that you could be trusted not to hurt her, ever ... if you have known a summer walk when the sun has danced in the darkness, and the stars are singing of the lovely ways to spend an evening .. .if you have done some of these things, or all of these things, or none of these things, but others just as good ... then celibacy, by contrast, must always seem like a denial of life. 
These were my thoughts as I walked home with a soggy dog at four o'clock this morning. If the young man who ques­tioned me thought of celibacy as a denial of 
I I

Reverend Robert Griffin I 
life, he never said so. But my friends long ago thought of celibacy as a denial of life. and my family thought so. Whenever I 
spoke  of  the  priesthood,  their  instant  
objection  was:  "But  you  can  never  
marry."  From that day  to  this,  it  has  

always troubled me to be regarded as a juiceless, joyless vegetabl'j who rejected marriage. It makes me defensive, as though I were thought to be incapable of accepting a basic human arrangement 
intended for the fulfillment of flesh and blood, like some poor. pale ghost who grooves on incense instead of consumma­tions. 
In the excitement of entering a semi­nary, you don't really reject anything. You just accept the possibility of other arrange­ments. When you enter a seminary, you don't know if you're going to become a priest or not. You may hope to become a priest; you may say prayers that you'll be ordained. But others have prayed for the same thing: they left, and you may leave too. You may say: "I won't leave until they throw me out"; but you say it fearfully, knowing that better men than you are. have been sent packing. Ordina­tion, if it comes, is a special arrangement in which you trust God to be your portion and your inheritance, and He trusts you to be His witness in a discipline requiring you to be celibate, just as religious brothers and sisters are celibate. Marriage, too, is a special kind of witness, even for some ·priests in union with Rome. and it may be a better arrangement than celibacy even for the one who has chosen to be celibate; but both marriage and celibacy, under God's blessing, are roads leading home to the 
Kingdom. 
IfI write dithyrambs about girl friends in the moonlight, it is not as a declaration of "Me, tooism" to be included among the folks who are affirmers of life. Marriages as well as celibacy are made of sterner stuff than moonlight in my true love's hair. But I think that there is a romance that leads each one of us to his commitment, and all romance begins with a hungPr in the flesh for loving and being loved. 
I cannot begin to tell you what an honor it is, and has been, to be a Roman Catholic priest ordained into the membership of the religious community of the Congregation of Holy Cross. On the morning I was ordained, when the Bishop spoke the 
I 

I words: "I call you now not servants, but l friends," the joy in me was so intense, so 
I perfect, so overwhelming, that I thought I I was breaking apart inside. "I am a priest 
I 
j

forever," I kept thinking to myself; "a priest forever and ever and ever ... " I "Fairy tales can come true--It can happen to you--If you're young at heart," 
I 

says the song. Maybe being a priest I 
j

forever is a fairy tale; but it is a fairy tale that is as substantial in its beauty as the I berry brown feet of a girl in the summer I grass. Maybe the priesthood is a trick like I moonbeams that hope plays on the heart. I Maybe it is a boy's dream turned by age I into metaphysical longings. Maybe it's the I Arabian tales of Schcherezade turned I Jewish and come true for a Thousand and l One Nights. I 
But maybe--just maybe--the priesthood l is a gift that will be young for a thousand I years after the moon and the stars and the t-1 sun have fallen from the sky. 
I said goodbye to Jane in 1954 when I 
l 

went away to college. By then, both of us knew if we had lovely evenings to spend. 
l 

we would not be spending them together. I 
i I 
was already determined to become a priest, and she started going out with my best friend. Three years later, I went home to her wedding. The night before the j marriage vows were exchanged, we walked together for the last time in a summer 
1 
night. In the week I was ordained in 1954, 
~ 

she had her first child. It was a boy, but she didn't name it after me, as l hoped she might. By this time, you see, she had 
~ 

forgotten about not sitting under the apple tree with anyone else but me. I never forgot it. I haven't forgotten it yet, after nearly twenty-two years as a priest. 
None of those twenty-two years would have been the same if there had never been a girl so golden that I was afraid to touch her worth. She belongs to the dream I had of being ordained; she is part of the mystery of my vocation. 
I still feel clumsy when I think of her, as thought I were walking beside her on overweight feet. I feel clumsy when I write of her, as though I were treading on very thin ice. I would never write of her at all if a freshman, last night, hadn't asked me about the priesthood. I want him to know that the priesthood includes not only a man's best hopes, but also the memories of a dream he has never denied himself. 
"In the past, women served as deacones­ses and abbesses. Some abbesses were so powerful that they had jurisdiction over bishops." 
Having received a B.A. in philosophy from the University of Western Ontario, and an 
M.A. in philosophy and a Ph.D. in Medieval Studies from Notre Dame, Storey's prime interest is in the medieval history of the church and the development _ of liturgy. He disagrees with the Catholic Church's appeal to sacred tradition as a defense. 
"l don't understand the argument that just because women haven't been priests they shouldn't be," Storey said. He believes there are no theological reasons why women should not be ordained. 
"I conceive of the church as being an agent of liberation but in this instance it is an agent of oppression,'' Storey concluded. 
With an 'Ordain Women Now' button gleaming on her door the office of Dr. Josephine Ford is distinguishable from 
. other paculty offices in the library laby­rinth. Dr. Ford brings an English perspec­tive to this issue as she was raised in Nottinghamshire, England and received degrees from Nottinham University and King's College, London. As a student she became committed to the.women's ordina­tion movement and she remembers the exact date as if it were a moment of conversion. 
"On January 3, 1961 I was at a meeting of the St. Joan's alliance where I met a 70-year-old woman. During the conversa­tion she confronted me, 'Give me one reason why women can't be ordained.' At first I said they just shouldn't but as I continually reflected on it, I realized that all of my misgivings were emotional." 
Dr. Ford has been.. involved ever since. 
.. 

Among her seven books, and 70 some articles is a book on women in the Pentecostal movement. Published in 1969, Spirit In the Human Pel'SOn discusses the paternali§'t:ic way the church treats women and the handicapped without full minister­ial responsibility. ' 
By teaching at the University of East Africa in Uganda for two years, Dr. Ford became sensative to the religious restric­tions which "frustrate educated women in the third world.'' 
She attended the November ordination conference but believes that the strategims it discussed were not agressive enough. 
''The general atmosphere of the confer­ence was gentle, unthreatening, prayerful. We are expected to be good girls, meek and mild. I think the time has come to take an agressive approach," Ford believes. "We have a right to ordination." The button on her door attests to that. 
Dr. Elizabeth Fiorenza also attended the ordination conference and formally replied to one of the given speeches. 
"I argued that if women are to be admitted to the deaconate then they must also be ordained priests and bishops. They must be allowed to participate at all levels.'' 
Dr. Fiorenza's interest in the women's movement in the church was a concern of hers as a unversity student. She recevied her licentiate in Pastoral Theology from Wueburg, Germany and her doctorate in New Testament Studies from Munster, Germany. In 1961 herthesison lay women in the church was published. "It was at a time when there was nothing on the issue," she said. Besides her book, Ministry of Women and the Church, she has had feminist articiles published in Theological Studies and the International 

christie herlihy 

Journal Concilium. 
''The growing pressure to acknowledge women" has become a deep sincere interest in America, she notices. In the United States the issue is regarded as a theological one which involves deep pene­tration into Catholic doctrine. In Germany, however, the movement is viewed as concerning women's entry into positions within the church. 
Dr. Fiorenza is also credited with introducing a new course; "Women tn the Church" into Notre Dame's theology curriculum and she has plans for another course concerning women in the Bil?le. 
The ordination of women is a justice issue with which Msgr. John J. Egan, is well aquainted. Director of the Center for Pastoral and Social Ministry, Egan has taken an active interest in this issue and he attended the November ordination confer­ence. He is also chairman of the Catholic Committee on Urban Ministry (CCUM) which in its annual convention held last fall devoted discussion to the women's ordina­tion issue. CCUM invited Sr, Elizabeth Carrol, one of the leaders of the movement. 
Graduated from De Paul University and St. Mary of the Lake Seminary, Egan was ordained in 1943 and is currently a senior fellow of the theology department of the Institute for Urban Studies. 
In 1973, Egan was the recipient of Notre Dame's first annual Reinhold Niebuhr A ward for distinction in the area of social justice in modern life. 
The role of women in the church is a pressing issue today as Notre Dame's own theologians agree. The panel discussion ~unday should explore the diverse implica­tiOns of the movement from the Vatican in Rome to the· neighborhood parish Friday, February 20, 1976
~6 •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••
the observer 

: ili~r Ghdnnial -:
I -For frosh and sophs . ' .


: 1faucakt i;nust ' : 
: FEATURING... •
~ St.•y~~~~s off~~~ m~~~:.~.~.~~~~?,~~~..!~~~~~ 
Staff Reporter Neil, "should be in something you p.m. Feb. 24 in 243 Madeleva. • LARGE, OVEN-BAKED : The Career Development Center like and something you are good Two St. Mary's alumnae will of St. Mary's College is offering a at." Too many students narrow explain how their liberal arts : APPLE PANCAKES : Career Planning Series to freshmen themselves down to what they educations led to positions at Ohio 
: -A REAL TREAT-:
and sophomores who are undecid-think is most practical, she added. Bell. ed about majors and how they Path is a textbook geared especially A presentation for juniors and :WE NEVER COMPROMISE WITH QUALITY : relate to careers. for the liberal arts student. It gives seniors will follow this from 3:30 to 
The first of the six-session series usable suggestions on how to 4:30 p.m. and will focus on job • U.S. 31 (Dixieway North) /A J • will be held Tues., Feb. 24, in the translate your talents and interests opportunities and how to handle an : (ACROSS FROM HOLIDAY INN) .W. : St. Mary•s Snack Shop from : to into a meaningful career, she said.
4 30 interview. 6 p.m. It is open to both Notre Freshman Dean Rosemary Do-
Karen O'Neil outlined the things
Dame and Saint Mary's students. herty and Vice President for Aca­
freshmen should be doing to begin # ..................~ 
A textbook entitled Path, by demic Affairs Gail Mandell will be 
their career planning. "First they
Howard E. Figler will be used and present at one session to answer should do reading about their field t SUMMER JOB + can be purchased in the St. Mary's specific questions on courses and 
of interest," she stated. The 
bookstore. Attendants are requir-majors. 
library of the Career Development
ed to read chapters one and two Following the six-week series, ONE OF AMERICA'S OUTSTANDING BOYS' CAMPS, LOCATED IN NORTH-•
Center contains this data, she • 
ERN WISCONSIN, ANNOUNCES A LIMITED NUMBER OF OPENINGS ON THE
prior to the first session. participants may join an Intake 
noted. STAFF FOR THE 1976 SEASON. DATES ARE JUNE 21 -AUGUST 11. •
Karen O'Neil. head ofthe Career Session at the Career Development •
''Then the student should meet COMPENSATION INCLUDES SALARY OF $425-600, ROUND TRIP TRANSPOR-Development Center, will co-teach Center and obtain a personal TATION, LIVING QUARTERS, BOARD, AND LAUNDRY. THIS IS AN •
and talk with a person actively t
the seminars with Rooney O'Neil, a counselor from a staff of Indiana UNUSUALLY ATTRACTIVE SUMMER JOB. CONSEQUENTLY, ONLY MEN
involved in their field. We set up 
• WITH THE HIGHEST CHARACTER AND INTEGRITY WILL BE CONSIDERED. •
sophomore intern in the depart-University graduate students. This 
interviews with people in the city or
ment. service is open to all students by 
provide the names of alumnae to 
• FOR COMPIEI'E INFORMATION, WRITE: •
The series will deal with such visiting Room 174 of the Student 
whom the students can write,"
problems as how to make Affairs Wing, LeMans, from 9 a.m. • D.C. BROADBRIDGE •
Karen O'Neii pointed Qllt.
decisions. how to choose a major, to noon, and 1 to 4 p.m., and Finally, Interview Prep Sessions • 2863 SHANNON COURT • 
relating your major to what is Tuesday and Wednesday evenings. NORTIIBROOK, llL 60062 .
are given on Fridays through
available in the job market. and The Career Development Center March 12 to aid in interview skills ~..................#
getting a summer job. is also offering a workshop for 
and improving your impression. 
Role Play interviews are conducted · 



it••·································COLLEGE EDUCATION
in pairs.

COUL reports progress on i
Also, a Resume Clinic is held every two weeks to facilitate the identification and presentation of * ~ corner of Logan and Jefferson * ~academic recommendation skills an employer is seeking. 
Questions can be referred to 
* * 
(Continued from page 1) residence halls should be encour­Karen O'Neil, Career Development ~ FINEST ~ the fact that the area of require­aged by the Administration. Office, at 4431 or Rooney O'Neil at -ments for entrance into Business -Formal and informal education­
5484. 

: 24 HOUR RESTAURANT : 
College courses should be re­al programs should be developed searched and changed to allow under the leadership of the hall students both within and outside to rectors with the assistance of the 
$ IN MICHIANA a 
be better served. faculty and hall staff. The two recommendations that One other significant recom­
* * ~
~ catering to
STARTS TONIGHT
have been implemented in the mendation, concerning Student Af­
academic area are: fairs, that has not been acted on is: 
: ND-SMC LATE NIGHT NEEDS :
-That there be an internal eval­

Forlbur 
Pleaau"'···
-That the January 1973 commit­uation of the Office of Student 
* * 
JOHN 
~ FEATURING COLLEGIATE SPECIAL · ~
tee on Advanced Registration re­Affairs as to the identity of the 
WAYJICI: 
commendations that form SO's be various departments within; to the 
ILU'IIIUUJ!IE 
IIEI'IWIIN
color-coded by class and tighter clarification of needs met and those 
* "JACK OMELET" * 
control of pre-punched computer not answered; to the suitability of 
lllOQST1!;ll. ~~· 
* *
''""~'~"""""'*'""''" ....,.,.,.,.,..(............. ~)'/Jj,
cards be implemented. the ,persons charged with particular 
* * 
-Academic courses both with and responsibility; to the evaluation of 
* Daily Lunch Special Hamburgers * 
without credits offered in the stated goals met or not met. 
PHONE 288-8488 
* * 
* * 
~ BREAKFAST SERVED ANYTIME ~
FOR TIMES

Nixon China trip is today 
~~~~~;:~~~:;s~ 
*•••••••••••••••••••• •••* 
LOS ANGELES AP -Former numerous advisers and swarm~; of President Richard M. Nixon dep­
newsmen who reported his 
arts Friday for Communist China, move. 
where he went four years ago a& America's chief executive to open On Friday morning, Nixon. his relations between the two count­
wife and two aides iwll board a ries. Chinese jet airliner at an out of the 
This time he travels as a private way hanger at Los Angeles citizen as the guest of Communist national Airport. A boeing China. 
from mainland China was serviced at Vancouver International AirportIn February 1972 Nixon. the on Thursday and will take the one-time fervid anti-communist, Nixons first to Anchorage, Alaska, landed in Peking on his official and then to Tokyo before the final 
visit. He was accompanied then by leg to Peking on Saturday. 
BULLA SHED 
a warm spot on a cold day! 
·~ 
JOIN US -meet new people ­especially if you have never come 
This Friday and every Friday Mass_-Dinner 5:15 pm 

Frid~y, _!'ebruary 20, 1976 the observer 








Racquetball sweeping ND campus 
(Continued from page 8) off-hand" scares a lot of people .tern, four had a co-ed match going the Rock now." Both Van Effen Most students play the sport any degree of encouragement, begin-from handball to racquetball. on. Mark Lucas, a jtJnior, and and O'Hearn do not rely solely on time during the day they have ners can learn quickly. Another big However, his reason for switching senior Shayla Keough meet twice a racquetball for their recreation. available. However, most of the thing is that you don't have to to racquetball was somewhat dif-week for a racquetball match. Prof. Gatto started playing rae-staff and faculty members qucs­modify the sport. In tennis, you ferent. "Ara (Parseghian) and I Lucas, who started playing last quetball for what it is, perhaps, the tioned play either at lunch ot at learn step by step. If you don't played handball for twenty-five year, also plays a lot of basketball most unique reason. "I used to night. Coach Shoults, when he's have a serve in tennis, you're sunk. years. However, when you reach bu Keough depends primarily on play handball regularly with a not out of town on recruiting t• ·ps, 
Here you play the whole game all that fifty mark it's hard to keep racquetball for her recreation. As friend. But this friend had to have plays "right at 12:00 during l•.nch at once and the serve is not quite as going in handball. Racquetball is a matter of face, she plays five an operation on one of his hands hour." important," she said. not quite as strenuous and it's .a times a week. K;eough also just and is unable to use it in handball Although a lot of students, 
Mike Pinter, a Research Admin-little easier. I really enjoy it," he started playing regularly last year, anymore. So we switched over to faculty and staff 1 melllbers arc istrator for the university, thinks commented. but became familiar with the game racquetball wher.e you only have to contributing to the sport by their the need to be ambidextrous in All of the aforementioned help to in freshman year phys. ed. use one hand," he recounted. actions on the court, junior Mary handball sways a lot of people over make this a very popular co-educa-Juniors Kathy van Effen and Sue Diane Wilson, Assistant Director Reher contriL<•tcd to racquetball's to racquetball. "It takes a Jot of tiona) sport. "It's a game that a O'Hearn also learned to play in of Information Services, plunged cause above the court so to speak. time to learn to use both hands, girl can hold her own with a boy," freshman gym class. Both played wholeheartedly into the sport. "A "I opened the door t•) climb down whereas all you need in racquetball Fallon said. "It lends itself to handball too, but thought racquet-friend got me interested and I the ladder, but I didr 't notice the ts a forehand and backhand," co-educational sport," he said. ball was easier to pick up. Van bought a racquet even before I ladder was up," she recounted. Pinter stated. When walking by the courts at Effen plays an average of twice a played," she said. Wilson enjoys "As a result, when I grabbed the 
Assistant Football Coach Paul the Rock, it's evident that a lot of week and "loves the game." the sport for many reasons, one of ladder I went straight down and Shoults played handball for twenty-students concur with both Fallon "I've played in the co-ree rae-which is its attractiveness to play-landed on my foot." Reher's foot is five years and also thinks the and Gatto. Out of the seven courts quetba11 tournament twice," she ers of varying quality. ''I'd have to now in a cast, !Jut she is rcsponsi­dilemma of having to use "the that had racquetball players in said. "But this year we had to say it's almost a slob sport. People ble for a recent addition to the forfeit our match because we with different degrees of compe-handball-racquetball courts--the couldn't reserve a court before the tence can play. You can either take signs read: "Caution, Make sure
Ir------------~------------, 
deadline day. The courts are so it easy or have a very fine edge," the ladder is down before enter-

RADIATOR I 
crowded that there are even lines she explained. ing." 
r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,
I ~~ I 
I 1'-.t'pairing I 
I I
I "WE CAN HANDLE THE TOUGH ONES" I l GENERAL STORE ~ 
I SINCE 1922 I 
t "SALE DAYS ARE HERE!" t
I 289-SBSO I 
I I 
I I : FEATVRING: FADED GLORY I 
I I 

I l ALL MEN' WINTER COATS 40% OFF : II t SOME SWEATER & SmRTS 20% OFF t 
I 

: OPEN· 10 to 9 MONDAY THRU 



,-------1

"TOUGH GUY'" 
Welding ·Heaters I 

r:eet Tr .. ck Contracts Welcome 
I t SATURDAY t t 
SAME DAY SERVICE 
I 

I 12 to 5 SUNDAY

l l I 
1136 MISHAWAKA I 
I 
I

"IF YOU HAVE A ROUGH TRIP AHEAD I t 1621 SOUTH BEND AVE· ' t ' t OF YOU, CHECK OUT THE I 
L (BEIDND LINEBACKER) : :
'TOUGH GUYS'." 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~
~~----------------________J 


WANTED 

Need 2 GA Marquette tix. You name the price. Call 8321. 
Desperately need ride to Rlrt Laudeniale spring break. Call 4430. 
Delivery per.;on wanted. Must have O\M'l car. Guaranteed average $3.50 per hour. Apply in per.;on, Julio's Carry OL•t, l.inrolnway West. 
Need Marquette tix. Call Brian, 1606. 
Need 2 GA Marquette tickets. Call .John, 1818. 
Need ride for 1 or 2 to Chicago Friday, Feb. 20. Call 8386. 
Need 4 Marquette tickets for old alurmi ­willing to negotiate $$. Call 3258, 9-12 pm 
Need up to 4 Marquette tix. student or GA. Will pay any priCE. Call l'l'!te, 234-6352. 
Need 5 Marquette tickets. Call Eileen or Marion, 6798. 
Need GA and Student tickets for fv'IN· quette badly. Aease call Pat, 1654: 
Wanted: 2 Marquette fix. Aease call Terri, 287·6638. 
Need 2-4 GA Marquette tickets. Will pay your price. Call Tom. 8334. 
-----~---------­
Need many Western Mich. tix!!! Call 233 9841 after 10 pm 
Desperately need 1 Marquette ticket. Big rroney call Mike, 8720. 
Wanted: Tickets for Western Mid1igan game, 4 GA & 2 students. Aease call Jim. 6931 
FOR SALE 

House for sale: Edison Park. 3 bedroom. full basement. fenced yard. Call: 233­8512. 
Rlr Sale: 1967 Olds Delta 88. Aged M!ll. Best otter 289-8032. Keep trying. 
Rlr Sale: Used Harrrony guitar, $20. 289-8849. 
Rlr Sale: Mayline drawing board, 24x30, Call Joe, 1130. 
Rlr Sale: Blue-Gold NO Jacket.$ or will barter for drugs. Call 287-6758. 
Rlr Sale: 1968 Dodge Charger 318, automatic, poM!r steering. Great rond, snow tires, & Mag wheels included. $600.00. Call 272-1710 or 272-4777 after 5:30pm. 
Disneyland Murals from Mardi Gras for sale. Call 1348. 
Brick rand1 within walking distance to Notre DAme, 2-3 bedroom;, fumisiled basement. Automatic sprinkle~. garage door opener. Air-ronditioned, and many extras. $42,000. Call 232-0780. 
Rlr Sale: Blank 90 min. Merrorex 8-track tapes at very reasonable price. Call Lisa, 8089. 
FOR RENT Furnished Houses, tvw to seven bed­room;, available for Septerrber or June. Call 234-9364. 
Next school year 9{nine) rronfh lease. TIM:l furnished ho\JSes . 4 bedroom and 5 bedroom near NO. Call 234-26_2_6_.__ 
2 ROOMS FOR RENT, $40. Call 233­1329. 
Rlr Rent: Furnished tvw bedroom horn.,. Corrpletely redeoorated. Wall to wall carpeting, draperies throughout. Special deal to end of semester. Call 283-7595, 283-8722, 233-1374, or {after 6 pml 272-1965. 
NOTICES Will do typing, experienced, term pa­pers, manuS<Tip~. etc. Call 233-8512. 
Send a girl to Rio. $50 per half hour, Call 1311. 
Some of our best friends are straight Gay Corrm.mity of Notre Dame. Hotline 8870. Fri. and Sat., 8-10 pm or write 
X 206. 
Classified Ads 
RICH MAN, POOR MAN available at the 
Book Bam. Call and reserve a ropy, 
272-5520. 

'village Voice with the CIA Report leaked 
by Daniel Sd1orr. Now at Pandora's 
Books, 937 S. B. Ave. 
Freshmen: Last Chance to buy a '75 i:Xlgbook! If you'd like one, rome to Student Union. 1-3 pm. MWF, $2. 
Accurate, fast typing, M~ Donoho. 232-0746. 
LOST& FOUND 
LOST: Ladies' silver wrist· watch on center quad. Call 7621. 
LOST: Keys No. 511, 1067 and 2 small keys. Reward -Call 5754. 
Rlund: Near North door to Huddle, St 
Mary's Academy class ring 1967. Call 'Mike, 288-1237. 
Picked up bro\M'l ski jacket identical to my OWl in Fat Wally's Sat. nile with glasses in pocket. Need my O\M'l bro\M'l jacket back desperately. Call Dennis or Mark, 8944. 
PERSONALS 
Little One, Have you ronsidered it? Good-bye Blue 
Jesse says: Cuddle up my pretty duck! 
Snowball, Thanx for the Valentine, but I think you'd make a better Morrmy! Dr. Kris 
To Our Secret Admirees: RSVP or you'll break our hearts. xxoox 
"Winning Pants" please clarify. 
Today is ll.Jdwig Boltzmann's birthday. 
If not for the fact that he rorrmitted suicide because his life IMlrk was rejected by the scientific romrrunity, he might still be alive today. Maura -enjoy his 132nd birthday. 
Rick, Big & bad, Happy 19th birthday. W& L 
"Streaking across the quad, it's a gilded blur with the light of a thousand suns . it's the Golden Drone!" Starting Monday on WSND-AM between 7 and 8 AM. 
Uncle Charlie is fired of the charade. Next week is the week for the secret if hush rroney is not paid. What will they do so that no one will ever know the secret???? 
To everyone \Mlo knows D. C. Nokes... his birthday was yesterday. 
PARTY: The Rlnz says everyone is invited to an 8 kegger at Bossy's Saturday night after the Mid1igan St. game. Held in Carrpus View Comrrunity Center from 9pmto2am. 
Secret Admirer, 

How nice it IMlUid be to thank you in person. 
Nancy · 
IWNOISANS: CAN YOU SPARE A WEEK-END TO HELP IN GOVERNOR WALKER'S CAMPAIGNING FOR RE­ELECTION? TRANSPORTATION, LOO. GING, AND MEALS PROVIDED. FOR DETAILS, CALL THIS WEEK, CATHY 284-4103. 
Got a question about drinking? Red K. of Michigan State Univ. will have some ansM!~ at the open diSOJssion rreeting of Alroholics Anonyn-ous, 7 :30 pm, Mon. Feb. 23, Athletic Dept. Aud., ACC. Everybody M!ICDme. For rrore informa­tion call 8809. 
Help! Help! Would the per.;ons IM'lo "borro\Ned" the resume books from the Aacement Bureau please retum them Other students are waiting, 
Charles-
You might as M!ll know, before this goes too far, you weren't the intended subject of this travesty, dear. 
FLASH 
Wanted: 2 Marquette tix. Mary, 1285. 
WACKY WABBIT CLUES 
THE NAME OF THE HALL IS KNOW"' TO ALL 
WACKY IT'S SAID IS IN A PLACE WHOSE NAMESAKE IS DEAD. 
ALTHOUGH ALONE IN HIS FLIGHT GHOSTS GIVE WACKY NO FRIGHT. 
THE PLACE REALLY IS AWAKE BUT IT'S NOT AROUND A LAKE. 
SCIENCE AND ART ARE NOT FAR 
APART BUT AS YOU CAN SEE. WACKY IS STILL FREE. 
7 AND 3 MAKES IT EASY TO SEE. 
THE OLD AND THE NEW ARE ON ALL 
SIDES, PLUS THE WABBIT'S HUTCH IS SUP­PORTED BY A CRUTCH. 
SOUTH OF THE DOME IS WACKY'S TEMPORARY HOME. 
ANAL CLUES TO THE WHEREA· BOUTS OF WACKY WABBIT CAN BE HEARD TODAY ON WSND-640 AND TONIGHT AT SUPER-DISCO, LAFOR· TUNE BAUROOM, 9-1, FREE ADMIS­SION. 

, I l-' I # p , ' • o f , ""• I
.. . ::.... ; ·.. --.-:. ..·... ......~ _,. -..:...
" 
.. 
Friday, February 20, 197b

the observer 
Cagers slam Rams, Dantley shines 

points pulling down 17 rebounds. Ray Martin, known for his defensive play, broke loose for ten points in Notre Dame's win over Last night was the 13th time the The candidate for Player of the Fordham last night. (Photo by Chris Smith) Irish have scored over 90. Year in the collegiate circles, from four key men. Rick Dunphy, two nights ago. have won eight of Frank McGuire, one of collegiate Bruce Flowers has scored two converted on 10 of 19 field goal tho.big Ram forward who departed there last nine. Furman s!lapped basketball's most reknowned points since his career-high 27 attempts, and 13 of 17 from the Pro"vidence for Rose Hill, scored a USC homccourt record wh1ch had wizards has put together another point output versus West Virginia, charity stripe. season-high 24 points. Guard reached ten. South Carolina had last exciting squad. Silkly smooth two games ago. 
They weren't able to box me Kevin Fallon netted 18 points, lost at home versus Marquette, shooting Alex English paces the LJU beat Manhatten 98-71 in the out," said NO's All-American. "I while Frankoski came on with a late 68-65, last season. South Carolina attack scoring just first game of the doubleheader. was too strong and able to read the ball on he rim pr,etty good all game. 

=~~~~::tnt~r~~o:ew~:·th~e~~~~~ lrl·sh tangle Wl.th Spartans
Fordham was a tough team Ram in double-figures with 12. . though.·· After a 46-35 Irish margin at he 
The 19-4 Irish were in command half. the teams battled evenly and by Chip Scanlon faced MSU they wound up frus-the Irish hope to capitalize on. all the way. With Dantley, Duck with Dave Batton's short jumper trated in the goals department. This weekend is a crucial vne Williams and ~ay Martin leading from the lane, the score was 58-46 Last weekend Smith's squad sat because in a few short weeks the the charge, Notre Dame jumped off with 14:37 left. out 32 minutes in the penalty box, WCHA playoffs begin and the to a 25-12 lead with just over eleven It was here that the Garden The Michigan State Spartans not their worst night in the box, but second season starts for Irish minutes played. Scoreboard faded out, as did the bring their potent scoring machine certainly a sore spot with goalies skaters. When this begins thl· only 
Martin, one of the many Notre stadium's public address system into the ACC this weekend and Moher and Peterson. Fortunately thing that matters is that you be Dame players playing before home­and local television and radio lines. Lefty Smith's icers are ready to the Irish were able to nullify all but winning and have the momentum town partisians was especially ef­After a short delay the system was meet them with all graciousness of three man disadvantages on the on your side. All it will take is one fective on defense. Martin held reset and the game continued. the Austrian police force. strength oftheir penalty killers and good performance in the playor;. to Fordham's leading scorer, Stan Last year after a similar Like everyone in the WCHA last this weekend exceptional duty will wipe out a slump, but right now Frankoski, scoreless for most of the occurence at the ACC, with 7:24 weekend, Michigan State split their be needed again. momentum is what the Irish need. first half. Offensively, Martin shot left in the first half, Notre Dame series last weekend to hold onto "We're going to have to cut off Michigan State will no ooubt five for eight on the night and the caught fire and reeled of 24 points second place. A 16 and 10 record the MSU power play by applying bring enough supporters to fill the junior guard has now hit on 65% of to the Rams five. But this year gives them a slim on... point lead pressure just as we did last week," ACC with their cheering and 
his field goals in the last five 
Fordham hung tough and the Irish over third place Minnesota, four remarked Lefty Smith; and the key carrying on. It will be hard enough games. outscored the Rams by only one in over Michigan and six over the will be the skating of th Mark Olive for the Irish to play the Spartans on The Irish boasted four players in 
the second half. Irish. North Dakota surprised the and Pat Novitzki along with Don the ice, but having their fans double figures including Martin South Carolina is next up for the Spartans with a 6-2 win on the first Fairholm and AI Karsnia. dominate off the ice could be the and Bill Paterno and ten points Iri§h who are in the midst of their night of the series, but State used Olive and Novitzki usually start downfall of Lefty's bunch. apiece, and Toby Knight with longest road trip of the season. Jeff Addley's two goals to out as the first set of suicide Last weekend the hockey team 
fourteen. 

The lS-7 Gamecocks, who were trounce Dakota 7-1 on Saturday. jockeys, bearing the brunt of the was ecstatic with the crowd res­~pset by Furman, 83-77 at home Michigan State boasts three of opposition's offensive threat. ponse to their heroics and hopefully The Fordham output also came 
the WCHA's top six scorers in Tom Against a team the caliber of they will feel the same way at the Ross, Steve Colp and Daryl Rice. Michigan State who list three end of this series. The fans can beThe newest racket. around­Ross and Colp both work at the forwards in the top six of the like another skater at times, and center position and will be out to WCHA scoring, the threat will no this weekend might be the dif­test the balanced attact that Notre doubt be for an entire two minutes ference. Tickets for Friday and
.. racquetball at Notre Dame Dame has been receiving from. its and once again depth is the asset Saturday's 7:30 games are still own slot specialists, Don Fairholm available. 
by Gregg Bangs team sports has gone down," pat Novitzki
and Brian Walsh. ~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 
Hotvedt continued. With such high caliber skaters Thomas Fallon, Tennis Coach facing off against each other the Question: What sport on campus 
and Director of the Rock, concurs effect they have upon one another is now one of the most popular with Hotvedt on several points. may be a neutralizing one and this Excitement returns
rotations every in freshman physi­"All racquet sports are growing. may tip the scales in favor of the cal education classes in addition to In the east, .especially around Irish. Notre Dame's third line being the sport that requires one of Connecticut, a sport called plat­(Steve Schneider and Terry Fair­the longest waits for a court? 
form tennis is becoming very holm centered by Geoff Collier) has If you answer tennis, you're popular. Right here, handball is been especially efficient since they As the Notre Dame hockey team entered this past weekend serieshalfway there. If one thinks it's still as popular as ever and rac­have been backed by blueliners against Michigan Tech, I for one sensed the excitement and enthusiasmhandball, you're even closer, as quetball is doing very well," he Paul Clarke and Jack Brownschidle that was building up for our faceoff against the Number One team in the you would be if you think it's said. and this could be the difference country. It reminded me of our regular season meeting with the "Bigsquash. However, the sport in But why racquetball? What this weekend. Red" of Wisconsin my freshman year. We didn't have the sucess that we question is a unique combination of makes it different than handball or Last weekend Schneider, Collier did then, but the caliber of hockey was the same. Even tough we didn't all three--racquetball. 

squash? The fact that the racquet and Terry Fairholm accounted for sweep the Huskies this past weekend, we proved to ourselves that we can 
The game is becoming very is somewhat similar to tennis two goals and three assists for a play with the best of them. popular at Notre Dame, as it is all racquet does not seem to have that total of five points, certainly a It was the student body that enabled the Notre Dame basketball team to over the country. Evidence· of this much to do with it. "I play and respectable showing accomplish that come-from-behind victory over UCLA at the ACC in statement can be found by looking enjoy both sports," says Joe Gatto, against the number one January of 1974. It was the same student body that nearly produced the at the court reservations at the Assistant Professor of Modern team in the country. And the Irish same feat in the north dome of the ACC last Friday night. As we entered ACC or by scanning the lines at the Languages, "and they are quite didn't lose too much defensively the third period of Friday night's game we were down S-2. The situation Rock. An average weekend crowd different. In tennis, you have to when they were on the ice either. looked rather discouraging for the team, and also for the· second largest willfind quite a number of people in keep your wrist straight while in According to head coach Lefty crowd to witmess a hockey game thus far this year (the largest was line for a court holding what looks racqetball, you have to snap it." Smith ''the team has been gaining Saturday night, when we beat Tech 9-S).However ,a quick goal in the early to be a shortened tennis racquet or Gatto, who also used to play character over the course of the minute of the final period summoned the crowd to its feet. It was this an •enlarged squash racquet. handball, thinks racquetball is not season and they really show this student body support that enabled us to eventually tie the score at sill. 
Another indication of its popular­as punishing as handball. "If with last weeks play against both apiece with about forty seconds to play. Unfortunately, a lack of mental ity can be found in the increased you've every played handball, you Bowling Green and Tech." concentration on our part enabled the game to slip away from us, as a number of freshman taking it in know it is an extremely punishing Donny Fairholm and his line­Tech player turned the red light on in the final seconds. We, as players, gym classes. "Over the two years sport to the upper half of your mates of Kevin Nugent and Allen were looking forward to the overtime-thinking that the fans would be the that I've been here, it's becoming body. Not so in racquetball. It's Karsnia have been making things extra attacker on the ice. We won't let it happen again with your support. one of the more popular sections," very unique and enjoyable," he happen wherever they are on the I can't forget the addition of the Notre Dame Band at the games this explained Astrid Hotvedt, Coordi­explained. ice. Friday night Nugent and year. It really is a thrill for us to hear the Victory March being played after nator of Women's Sports. "A lot of beginners play rac­Karsnia tallied for the Irish and we score a goal. It adds another dimension to Notre Dame hockey. 
"The popularity of racquetball is quetball to increase their tennis Saturday night was an even more As for this upcoming weekend, we are hosting the Spartans from definitely a national trend. The skills, but they quickly find they're plentiful night with all three Michigan State, who are presently ranked as the third best team in the universities are the center of this two different games," Hotvedt scoring at least once. country. All of the rivalry and enthusiasm that exists on the gridiron of a popularity because they have the remarked. ''One good thing about Of course the performance of ND-MSU game is evi'dent at an ND-MSU hockey game also, and you can best facilities in which to play,'' racquetball that might appeal to Notre Dame's premier scoring line bet that there will be plenty of green and white migrating south for the she said. ''The publicity tennis the beginner is that you don't have has continued to carry the Irish weekend contests. It is a series that we must sweep for us to gain the gets has helped all racquet sports. to waste time running after stray along while Walsh, Hamilton and home ice advantage in .the playoffs. We as a team feel that the "hockeyThe trend for what we (physical balls." More importantly, Hotvedt Pirus stay in the top 25 of the fanatics" deserve to see the WCHA playoffs return to the ACC after two education dept.) call "leisure life­feels that a starter can find "easy WCHA leading scorers. This long years of absence. 
.. 
time sports" has been growing success" in the sport. "With some weekend will be another test for We need that extra attacker on the ice for both Friday and Saturdaywhile interest for participating in (Continued on page 7) them because the las£ time they night's games against State. See you there! 








