
CONCORD, N.H. (AP) ·· Republican challenger Ronald Reagan and President Ford battled last night to a near stalemate in a long count of the ballots in New Hampshire's leadoff presidential primary elec­tion. Former Georgia Gov. Jimmy Carter strode past a crowded field to win the Democratic primary. 
Ford said he expected to win in the end. Reagan said he had "far exceeded our expectations" in his first test against the President. 
'"I feel what's happened tonight is a victory," Reagan told a post-midnight news conference. He said he didn't know whether it would be a moral victory or an outright one. 
While Carter and his supporters were rejoicing in victory, the Ford and Reagan camps were worrying through a slow count of the Republican vote. 
With 67 percent of the anticipated vote tallied, the percentage was even and the count was Reagan 40.418, Ford 40.201. 
First it was !<eagan. then it was Ford, then it was Reagan as the slow count wore on with a handful of ballots separating the man who is president by appointment and the man who wants to deny him the White House nomination. 
But Ford's strategists were counting on ballots from Keene, a southwestern city where he campaign­ed per~onally and where he figured to do well, to boo-;t his tally. 
In Washington, meanwhile, Ford's top ca~paign offkials said that if Ford loses to Reagan, R1chard Nixon's trip to China may be to blame. 
ford's campaign manager, Howard Callaway, told reporters there is "rough evidence" th.at the momentum which he claimed the Ford campa1gn had during the last week in New Hampshire stopped abruptly on Saturday when the former president left for China. 
Ford's deputy campaign manager, Stuart ~pencer, said flatly, "If Pre~idcnt Ford loses m New Hampshire. Richard Nixon will be the reason_." 
Spencer said Nixon's trip was "the on_ly thmg that 
happened in the last three days. We feel1t was on the 
people's minds." 
Callaway said that before Nixon's departure, callbacks by the Ford campaign to undecided New Hampshire voters showed that far more of them were going with Ford than with Reagan. 
"We really had momentum going," Callway said. But he said it changed over the weekend. "We got a feel that the Nixon trip just took a lot of the edge of the enthusiasm away,'' Callaway said. 
Among the Democrats there was no doubt who won. A beaming Jimmy Carter said his victory in the New Hampshire Democratic primary on Tuesday showed that being a Southerner is not a campaign liability. 
JIMMY CARTER 

Administrators, rectors view RAs 
by Patrick Cole Senior Staff Reporter 
EDITOR'S NOTE: This Is the first of a three-part series examining the role and responsibilities of resident assistants. The first two parts wlll look at resident assistants from the viewpoint of the administration and the rector. The third part will discover how the resident assist­ants look at their role. 
*
Observer 
Insight 
At Notre Dame, the letters, 
R. A., represent more than just two letters of the alphabet. 
An R.A. or resident assistant is "a senior or graduate level student who is a member of the residence hall staff and Department of Stud­ent Affairs" according to the 83-page Resident Hall Staff Man­ual. There are 123 resident assist­ants in undergraduate dorms on campus this year with at least one living on each floor. 
Record year for applications 
This year. there have been 575 applicants for approximately 80 resident assistant positions for the 1976-77 academic year. This is the largest pool of applicants ever. 
Why so many applicants? 
"It is a prestigious job," said Fr. Terrence Lally, assistant vice­president of student affairs. "Th~ financial aid involved has made It more attractive in these times." 
A resident assistant receives free 
room, board and laundry for the 
academic year. 
Assistants to the rector in resident halls at Notre Dame have existed since the beginning of dormitory life. However, the name of the title was different. Until 1970, resident assistants were referred to as "prefects." The prefects were religious and priests who lived on each floor of the dorms. Thery were responsible for each floor. 
"But now a metamorphosis has occurred," Fr. Lally commented. ''The prefect was changed to a resident assistant. Then there was a gradual change to laymen." 
The change to laymen occurred when •'it was difficult to get the clergy for the position," according to Fr. Matthew M. Miceli, the rector of Cavanaugh Hall for four­teen years. "There aren't many priests or brothers available now for the position." 
The selection process 
In order to apply for the resident assistant position, the applicant must be either a senior, graduate or law student. The candidate must have a 3.0 grade-point average or better and have at least three recommendations from rectors or employers. 
"If he is a good candidate, then 
we set him up for an interview," 
Fr. Lally said. 
During the interview, the selec­
tion board considers the characteri­
stics of the candidate. He is asked: 
What is your idea of the job? What 
qualities does an R.A. need? What 
is the most difficult part of the job? 
Other qualities considered are 
the applicant's leadership experi­
ence and his religious motivation. 
The interviewers rate these qualit­
ies on a scale from one to nine. 
"But it depends on the inter­
viewer," Fr. Lally continued. 
"Some interviewers will not give 
the candidate less than a seven rating. But if an applicant gets a high rating, he will get another interview," he said. 
After the interview process, Fr. Lally told that the "interview process starts over again" by making a list of acceptable resident assistants. The approved resident assistants go to the halls of their choice requesting interviews from rectors. 
Brother Joseph J. McTaggart, 
C. S.C., assistant director of Cam­pus Ministry and an assistant rector of Fisher Hall, talked about the selection process or resident assistants for Fisher. 
''The specific needs for the hall changes from year to year," he commented. "So for searching for 
(continued on page 3) 
"In NewEngland,even m Massa­chusetts next week, being from the South was not the handicap" others said it would be, the former Georgia governor said in an NBC television interview. 
Carter said it was "interesting" 
that he and Reagan, the leading 
candidates, had no ties with Wash­
ington. 
"I don't know if it is particularly 
significant or not," Carter said. 
"Whether it is a prediction of 
things to come, I can't say." 
Rep. Morris L. Udall of Arizona, 
who was running second to Carter, 
called the primary a boost for his 
campaign effort because he was 
leader of what is considered the 
more liberal group. 
"Our goal was to emerge out of this contest as the leader of the progressive center candidates and we reached that goal," he said. 
"Tonight with the help of the 
voters, the Udall campaign took 
off." 
Udall congratulated Carter for a strong campaign and said: "I will see him in Massachusetts." The Massachusetts primary is next Tuesday. 
The other major Democrats in the New Hampshire race, Sen. Birch Bayh of Indiana, former Sen. Fred R. Harris of Oklahoma and 1972 vice presidential candidate Sargent Shriver, were unavailable for comment. Alabama Gov. George C. Wallace and Sen. Hu­bert H. Humphrey of Minnesota each had a handful of write-in votes. 
Among nine minor candidates, only Ellen McCormack of Bellmore, 
N.Y.. the anti-abortion candidate, showed up in the rankings, with two percent. 
Burtchae/1 announces expanded curriculum 
By Matt Kane Staff Reporter 
Fr. James Burtchaell told the HPC last night that as many as six business courses will be opened to Arts and Letters majors in a one and half hour long question and answer session. 
However, the six courses have not been determined yet. 
Fr. Burtchaell said he will en­courage the College of Arts and Letters to open up more electives to business students. He hopes this will relieve the overcrowding in the Col.Jege of Business Adminstration. 
More Arts and Letters electives will enrich the business student's education, according to Burtchaell. 
When asked why more money was given to the Business College to expand their faculty, Burtchaell said, "We have not increased the University faculty since 1970. Prior to 1970 the University opera­ted at a deficit for two years. Only by curtailing faculty expansion could we increase faculty salaries." 
Burtchaell went on to say, "Mo­ney used to increase one depart­ment must come from other depart­ments. But because of faculty tenure, salaried positions don't shift as easily or rapidly as students 
"It would also be unwise," thought Burtchaell,"to vacate a department which has built up a national reputation on account of student preferences which change rapidly." He then cited engineer­ing as an example. "First it was very popular in the sixties, then the collapse of the space program frightened students away. and now companies are looking over seas for people to fill the jobs." • 
Burtchaell thought a quota sys­tem for the College of Business Administration, as one member suggested, would be impractical-. The only place where the Univer­sity could control enrollment was with transfer students. "Usually they have their major already determined," he said. "But if we publish the fact that we are looking for certain kinds of students. they could enroll where they think they could get in, ten minutes later they could change majors. 
Burtchaell thought "the best way to relieve academic pressure was to have fewer but more challenging tests.'' He thought the constant treadmill of tests was perhaps a greater cause for grade anxiety than grade inflation. He believes grades are a valid way to evaluate a student. 
He thought the average acade­mic load gave a student a well balanced curriculum. The possibil­ity of giving mini-courses exists, according to Burtchaell. "A program existed since the begin­ning of the year but no professor has created a course to fit into the program." 
(continued on page 7) 

Teri Heimlich, john lane, Cathy Coyne, Mary held in April. Anyone interested in helping byMcMahon and Mary Gallagher look up telephone looking up numbers contact Cathy Coyne at numbers of St. Mary's alumnae across the 4-4985. (Photo by Chris Smith) country in preparation for a Phon-A· Thon to be 

Wednesday, February 25, 1976
2 
the observer 
News Briefs-­
~~~~~~~~~=Nationru 
'Alternative personalities' 
San Francisco-A defense psychiatrist told jurors yesterday that 
Patricia  Hearst,  fighting  for  survival  in  ca ptivity,  adopted  
"alternate  personalities,"  becoming  first  the  revolutionary  
"Tania" and later a woman named "Pearl".  

.,_Qn Campus Today_. 
noon 
12:15 pm 
1:15 pm 
3:30 prn 
4:15pm 
4:30pm 
4:30pm 
4:30pm 
6:30pm 
6:30pm 
6:30pm 
7:30pm 
8 pm 
8 pm 
8 & 10 pm 8:15pm 
--workshop, hour-long workshop for graduate stu­dents presented by richard willemin, n.d. advanced students lounge, Iafortune. 
--seminar, "a novel receptor for secretory compo­nent on porcine mononuclear cells" by dr. thomas 
m. setcavage, memorial sloan-kette~ing cancer Genter, new york city. rm 278 galvin auditorium. 
--american future series, "humanity's global crisis: america's responsibility," by r.osemary ruether. 
washington hall. 
--lecture, "engineering education in developing nations," by dr. jafar sabbagh, cornell university. rm 303 engineering building. 
--lecture, "the hydrogen spillover connection," by dr. eugene petersen. radiation laboratory confer­ence rm. 
--american future series, "learning curves, the duration of employment and the benefits of on-the-job training," by lester thurow. rm 105 law building. 
--music forum, the composer serebrier with jose serebrier. little theater. 
--colloquium, "application of neutron scattering to solid state physics," by dr. wallace koehler. rm 115 nieuwland science hall. 
--campaign '76, "bayh, shriver, carter, udall, wallace," rm. 122 nieuwland. 
--meeting, sailing club, rm. 204 engineering bldg. 
--basketball, nd-smc women's teams, ace auxiliary gym (pit) --come and cheer for the team of your choice. --zoning conference, "zoning and the right to association," with profs. francis beytagh, ronald weber, and edward malloy, n.d. cce 100-104. 
--informal discussion, father hesburgh, stanford hall 
chapel.  
--american future series, "multi-racial battle against campbell. washington hall.  200 rac years ism,"  of by  secret finley  

--film, "jules and jim," engineering auditorium. 
--concert, william cerny piano concert, library auditorium. 
SMC presents teaching award 
by Karilee Clark Staff Reporter 
Sr. Cecelia Ann Kelly, associate professor of art at Saint Mary's College, has been named the first recipient of the Maria Pieta Award for excellence in teaching. This award focuses on the quality of teaching done in courses for fresh­men and sophomores. 
A monetary gift and plaque was presented to Kelly at a reception in Stapleton Lounge Friday by the . Board of Regents, who made the announcement at their spring meeting on the campus this week. 
Nominations for the award were sought from students, faculty and administrators. A special commit­tee. composed of five students, three faculty members and two administrators, screened the nomi­nations submitted and presented a slate of three nominees to the Academic Affairs Council. 
To be eligible for the award, the 
ERRATUM 
Bill Walsh's comments in yes­terday's Observer have been misin­terpreted. Walsh said Gassman was very successful in establishing "experience in leadership as the main issue." He added that he hoped students will support Gass­man's new administration. 
*The Observer 
Night Editor: Marti Hogan Ass't Night Editor: Debbie Dahrling layout Staff: J .L. Bauer, Julie Pellettiere, Leigh Tunakan, Jim Commyn, Paul Schappler, Matt Kane Day. Editor: Marianne Schulte Copy Reader: Gregg B. Bangs Editorials: Martha Fanning Sports: Bill Brink Typists: Mel Celeste, Hank 
Van  Dyke,  Neil  Viii,  Karen  
Hinks  
Ad layout:  Sally Dentz, Tom  

Walrath, Pam Coolidge, Mike Miller, Tommy Whelan Night Controller: David Rust 
The Observer is published Nlonday through Friday and weekly during the sut1"Yller session, except during the exarr5 and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of the Univ. of Notre Dame and St. flllary's College. Subso"iptions niay be purdlased for $18 ($10 per serresterl fro-n The Observer, Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second Class postage paid, Notre Dame, IN 46S56. 
t:ecipient must have been at Saint Mary's College for at least three years as a full-time teacher and must have taught at least one lower division course each semester of those three years. 
Dr. William Hickey, vice presi­dent for Academic Affairs, stated that, "Sister embodies all the virtues one looks for in a lower division teacher. Her work inspires her students as much as her dedication in the classroom. She is deeply committed to her students; she is an excellent choice as the first recipient of the Maria Pieta Award. 
Kelly joined the Saint Mary's faculty in 1970, after teaching at Dunbarton College in Washington, 
D.C. She received her bachelor's degree in art from Saint Marv's and holds a master ·of fine arts degree from the University of Utah. 
Since coming to Saint Mary's, Kelly has exhibited her drawings and paintings extensively in the South Bend area and throughout the Midwest. 
Sister Maria Pieta, after whom the award is named, entered the Congregation of the Sisters of the Holy Cross the year after she graduated in 1922. 
At Saint Mary's she has served in many capacities: teacher of journalism, dean of women, head of the theology department, direct­or of the staff-student program, vice president of the College and alumnae-college coordinator. She retired in 1969 and now resides in the Sisters infirmary at Saint Mary's. 
Pipes Papers 
'Etc. 

newstand and qeneral store 

German FoQO Our Specialty 
Created WI it"> Old Wonci Atmosphere. Specializing in German and 1\merican Foods 
• So~th Bend's Finest Banquet Rooms 
The Alpine & Bavarian Rooms Open 10::>0 a.m. to 10:10 p.m.-Closed Sundays and >-iolldays 
Tom McMahon s;eneral Agent 
Manny Avila Agent 
'•""
Karen Wentland Agent 
'Tearafter year.I semester 'after semester. the College Master from Fidelity 
llnion (jfe lias ht•en the most acceptt'<l. most popular plan on campuses all mer Amerka. 
Find out win. 
Call the Fidelity Union Collt.·gcMaster rield Associate 
m your area: 
1 005 E. LaSalle South Bend. Ind. Phone 287-2327 
,~:; 
(()llc~c;\b-,Lll•• 
' 
---------~--­
Wednesday, February 25, 1976 the observer 
Graduate students voice complaints 
by Jim Flahaven storm windows were put on earlier 
Staff Reporter this year, the rooms were so cold in 
one part of the dorm, "you could 
"To put it bluntly, graduate see your breath.'' Another student resident life is unimaginative, rest­added, "If four people take a trictive, and depressing," accord­shower for one half hour, there is ing to a group of Carroll Hall no hot water left for the rest of the graduate students. The students, day." who wish to remain anonymous, Father Charles Weiher, Carroll 
charged that Notre Dame in gene­Hall rector, responded to the ral and Carroll Hall in particular charges. Weiher stated that if have failed to met the graduate anyone was cold, it was that students' needs in three areas: student's own fault. According to housing and services, social activit­Weiher, no one had ever complain­ies, and student government. ed to him about the rooms not 
being warm enough. "I can give . 
Housing and services Inadequate you an oath," said Weiher, "in the 
past, anytime anyone has complai­
The students complained there · ned about the heat, I have acted were no kitchen facilities, lack of immediately." heating in some rooms, lack of hot Weiher acknowledged the water water and no vending machines. heater had been a source of chronic 
According to one grad, before problems in past years. He said the 

An enthusiastic, yet small, crowd showed their support for the ND Women's Basketball Team in Farley Hall basement. The rally celebrates the ND-SMC rematch to be held tonight, at 6:30 p.m. in the ACC pit. (Photo by Chris Smith) 
Task force to announce new owner for closed A&P 
by Cathy Nolan Before the A & P moved in, Staff Reporter Quigley noted, there were only one or two major grocery stores in the 
An independent grocer will pro­South Bend community. The A & bably assume ownership of the P, Quigley added, was important in former A & P grocery store at Eddy thm: it setved many Notre Dame and Howard street, according to students and faculty members. Arthur Quigley, member of the 
Quigley cited the "big store" South Bend Grocery Store Task trend as the reason for the A &'P's 
Force. 
decision to close the Howard Street 
The Task Force, organized by the location. A & P has closed approxi­Common Council of the City of mately a thousand stores in the last South Bend, has been looking for a year, claiming the smaller stores do new owner since the A & P's not make enough profit. closing in January, 1976. The new 
The Task Force, in their searchstore owners will probably be for a new owner, contacted theannounced by the end of the week, Chicago division of A&P Foodsaid Quigley. 
Stores to promote the need for a William F. Miller, Indiana direc­store in the area. Peter Koukos, tor of the Small Business Administ­division vice-president and general
ration (SBA) .,,.;tj a proposal, manager, said the Chicago A&P seeking SBA l!.i.<!, was "being division has drawn up a sublease worked on actively." The proposal, for the Howard Street sto-re. The submitted Feb. 13. requested the A&P, stated Koukos, will coopera­SBA to underwrite a bank loan. The te fully with anyone interested in Task Force is optimistic the SBA running the store. will guarantee the loan by Friday, 
Quigley outlined the TaskFeb. 27. Quigley stated. 
Force's major goals in their effort The Task Force was established to reopen the A&P store:
by Common Council president, Roger 0. Parent, in an effort to -To work closely with the A&P provide the northeast neighbor­management to find a new owner. hood with another grocery store. -To make connections with food The A & P store played an wholesalers. important role in the community, -Try to raise money and assist Quigley commented. It was the the prospective owners in obtaining first store of its kind in the area. a bank loan. 
water heater had stopped working raised funds. But Wilson emphas­social functions and athletic events 
earlier in the month, but is work­ized that every case was different. as undergraduates do. "In additi­
ing now. Weiher said repairs were "We try to find a way, we just on, the academic calendar often 
made as soon as possible, but were don't say no." affects the grads as much as 
not done until he himself had Dean Winter, head of Notre anybody else." Since this is so, the 
discovered the problem. No stud­Dame vending, explained that he grads wondered why they were not 
ents came and told him of the had only a limited number of allowed to participate in the Hall 
problem. machines available, and they had Presidents Council. 
The yearly projects recommen­to be placed where they were most Elton Johnson, chairman of the 
ded by hall rectors are kept on file often used. "But I am always open HPC, said there was nothing in the 
in the office of Father Wilson, to suggestions," said Winter. He new HPC constitution that restrict~ 
vice-president of business affairs. hopes to have a cigarette machine the council to undergraduates. "If 
This year's maintenance requests in Carroll Hall by summer, and there was such a push, it is quite 
from Carroll Hall did not include a promised to look into the possibility possible grad students could be 
request for a new water heater. of also installing other machines. brought into the HPC" according 
Weiher said he had made a request Weiher added that proposals for to Johnson. 
for a new water heater in the five a new student lounge, a typing Weiher, however, stated the 
years previous to this one. Since area, and new furniture, are tentat­Graduate Student Union had foun­
there was no action taken in ively planned for next year. ded Carroll Hall with the purpose 
previous years, and the water to keep graduate students free
Student government desired 
heater was working when he made from undergraduate influence. "In 
the annual requests, Weiher drop­"At the college where I did my fact the hall is considered off­
ped the water heater in favor of undergraduate work, there was campus by the University. If we 
other projects. The other projects always competition between the want to throw a beer party here we 
included the storm windows and fraternities," said one law student. can." Weiher also said that to get 
renovation of two of the hall "But I found that everybody is part involved with the HPC was a two 
bathrooms, this year, and the other of the total community here at N.D. way street, and graduates would 
two next year. Everyone, that is, but graduate never have the freedom they now 
According to Father Wilson a students." have. 
kitchen would most likely have to Another student said that the Inside Carroll Hall there is no 
be at least partially from student-graduate students attend the same (continued on page o) 
.SLC discusses COUL timetable 
by Gregg Bangs tee. tee has almost finished summariz­
Associate Features Editor That will be the followup to the ing results on the alcohol policy 
and COUL report for this year. The study. They are waiting for the 
Robert Mader trustees will get a readable and Hall Presidents Council (HPC) to 
News Editor updated summary of student con­get feedback on their open letter to 
cerns in the 1975-76 school year. University President Hesburgh re­
The timetable for the Committee garding alcohol regulations.
The meeting was also held to 
On Undergraduate Life was discus­
make sure that the committees set Lenz and Professors Sexton and
sed at yesterday's Student Life 
deadlines and to clarify the process Crowe will prepare a flow chart of
Council (SLC) meeting. 
of preparing reports. John Dipe­disciplinary actions for hall and 
Tentatively, the final reports will tro, planning and policy committee university offences and show how 
go to the executive committee next chairman, said the survey will be the SLC fits in. 
week after the various standing out today. Ed Van Tassel is in The flow chart will be in Du Lac 
committees have met. The stand­charge, and the results are expect­next year. It will be an easy-to­
ing committees wi'll tell the chair­ed to be out by the weekend. read summary of what happens in 
persons how far the respective ad Sr. Jean Lenz pointed out that regard to disciplinary matters and 
hoc committees have progressed in the rules and regulations commit-the associated position of the SLC. 

April 15. The standing committees will then tie the ad hoc committee 
r-------~--------~--------·
reports together and: explain the results; explain the conclusion; and 
I PUBLIC I 
suggest priorities. 
The twenty to twenty-five ad hoc 
I DISCUSSION I 
committee reports will be tied together in the final reports and IZoning and the Right to Associate I 
will be preceded by an introduction written by the executive commit-
IPANELISTS I 
Rectors speak on I Rev. Edward Malloy, C.S.C. I 
RA positions 1 Single-Family Dwellings: Moral I 
(continued from page 1) 1 Perspectives I a resident assistant, I may have two or three priorities for the good I Prof. Ronald Weber I of the hall." 
1 Communal Living: Utopian 1
Br. McTaggart said that most rectors know their halls and "after 
I Perspectives
room picks, they know what the needs are." · I Prof. Francis Beytagh "Therefore, the rector puts the 
1 Zoning and the Right to Live
resident in the section where he can be utilized best.'' 
I Together: Legal Per~pectives
''The cohesiveness of the stud­ents within a section will determine 
I SPONSORED BY THE 
the resident assistant chosen," he 
1 Center for Civil Rights of Notre Dame
continued. "Also the talent of the person applying is considered." 
I AND THE 
Br. McTaggart revealed that the 
1 League of Women Voters of South Bend
present resident assistants, the assistant rectors and hall staff give 
I TONITE'7:30 p.m. ot the Center for 1 
input to the final selection of the resident assistants in Fisher Hall. l.-~~.l!~~'2i-.~~~.!!2.'!.~~j_~,g,tr.~!2.CLrlJI..! 
their findings. From this, a timetable will be set up for the completion of the report. It was also decided that the executive committee will set up a schedule for the rest of the year next week. 
Define the problem 
The ad hoc committee will pre­sent their findings in a two-to three-page summary which will follow a standardized form. They will: define the problem; list the recommendations and explain; list the best explanation, explain in detail, say why it is the best, and then submit it to the SLC. 
The SLC will go over the sugges­tions and alter them by April 6 because the final report is due 
8 mi. N. of State Line Take 31 to Niles then North on 51, 3 miles. 683-9842 

*l:J~deQ~~~rver
Founded November 3, 1966 
The Observer is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Com­mentaries are the views of individual editors. Opinions, cartoons and regular columns express the views of their authors. Column, space is available to all members of the community, and letters are encouraged to promote the free expression of varying opinions on campus. 
Editorials: 28J-1715 News: 283-8661 Business: 283-7471 
Business Manager Tom Modglin Advertising Manager Tom Whelan 
EDITORIAL BOARD Terry Keeney Editor-in-Chief AI Rutherford Managing Editor Jim Eder Executive Editor Pat Hanifin Editorial Editor Bob Mader News Editor Maureen Rynn ca""us Editor Mary Janca St. Mary's Editor Ken Bradford Copy Editor Val Zurblis Wire Editor Tom O'Neil Features Editor Bill Brink Sports Editor Dan sanchez Senior Night Editor 
Wednesday, February 25, 1976
r 
~ 
r r 
r 
r Congratulations! 
Mike Gassman and Mike Casey deserve to greater say in the running of this place. be congratulated on their landslide victory in They still must confront the same issues that the student body elections. They polled a this year's Student Government faced: the larger percentage of the primary vote than any COUL recommendations, the future of the other SBP in recent history, including Dave SLC, and parietals regulations. Krashna who totalled 63 percent in 1970. We wish them well in their new positions. 
It is unfortunate that a good campaign does We hope that the students who worked on their not necessarily a good Student Government campaigns work as effectively in their admini­make. Gassman and Casey will still have to stration. Gassman and Casey would be wise to confront the problems of an apathetic student consider some of the ideas of the other body, a student body that turned out to vote in candidates in next year's plans. fewer numbers than last year. Gassman and Casey should be congratulated 
They still must confront the same frustration yes. But they should also realize that the encountered by every other Student Govern-honeymoon will soon be over and they will soon ment in the past in convincing administrators have to live up to the confidence given them by to give students greater responsibility to have a the student body Monday. 
More Congratulation~ 
Agaili' the members of the Sophomore literary Festival should be congratulated. From the beginning the festival suffered from the non-attendance of those literary celebrities that were so important to its past success. Nonetheless, the student and faculty attend­ance of this year's festival paralleled that of past successes which featured such notables as Mailer, Miller, Potok, Ferlinghetti and others. The festival enjoyed a collective crowd of more than 3,000. It showed selection of speakers (five of whom were poets) the committee members, especially Chairperson Michelle Quinn, should be proud of their success. 
P.O. Box Q 
Delegates Come Forth! 
Dear Editor: 
The Mock Convention is a week away. I wonder how many people who read this rag regularly just said "Thank God for small favors!" 
To those who have been less interested in the convention than I am, the donkey in our articles has come to signify something other than the Democratic Party. As an Executive Committee member, I've been working for the better part of this year in getting this thing going. Those of you who have worked on functions like the Sopho­more Literary Festival or Junior Parents Weekend know that you don't put a major University event together overnight. 
Now is the time when the delegates should be becoming in­volved. The delegates, those 756 of you who have been saying since you signed up at Activities Night "Oh, yeah, the mock convention, I'm doing something for that...but I'm not exactly sure what, yet." NOW is the time to find out. Your state delegate chairman should have a meeting this week. If he doesn't call you, call him and find out what's going on. There's convention rules to be given out, the proposed platform is ready for distribution, and there's a straw vote on the Presidential nomination which must be conducted. 
I'm particularly concerned with that last activity. I'm the campaign co0rdinator and it's my job to see to it that the ten students who represent the Democratic Candi­dates conduct an enthusiastic cam­paign based on the issues, while reaching the delegates to inform them of their candidates' stands. 
One of our many functions designed to do just that was held Monday night. Oh, so you hadn't heard about that, right? Well if the delegate chairmen had told you about it as they were instructed to two weeks ago and had the Observer run a promotional inter­view one of their reporters had written in Monday's issue instead of devoting half the issue to the SBP elections, you couldn't have helped but know about it. Never­theless, there was a blurp about it in "On Campus Today", and we did get a two paragraph "want ad" on page 3 which was dwarfed by the SLF article (go back and look, it's there). And there were posters up all over campus. 
Now acting as an Observer reporter, since one was not assign­ed to cover the event, I must say the turnout was abominable, 20 people at the most, and not more than 10 of them were delegates. It went about as well as did the Platform Committee Public Hear­ings, held for the general public's and the delegates' benefit. 
Okay, so you have tests, papers. other lectures or movies you'd rather see, or maybe you just don't feel like going. These are valid reasons for not attending, but can we as delegates afford not to? If we as delegates are not aware of the issues of our platform, or the stands of the candidates, platform ratification will be based on ill-in­formed preconceived notions and the Presidential nomination will be nothing more than a beauty contest we could even elect a candidate whose policies are not in line with our platform, a sign that the work done by these two committees had failed to reach the delegates and had meant nothing. 
Another panel discussion is sche­duled for tonight. The representa­tives of Jimmy Carter, Birch Bayh, Morris Udall, Sargent Shriver, and George Wall ace will discuss the. issues amongst themselves and with the audience, delegates and non-delegates alike. It's a chance to learn the issues without having to read about them and a chance to confront the programs each repres­entative presents. Hayes-Healy, Room 122, 6:30 tonight. Come on out for an hour and participate with us. Learn something about this year's issues. As a voting member of this year's electorate, you can't afford to be ignorant! 
Harry Capadano 
Byrne and the SLC 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii..._bob ke r by 
The Observer's editorials for 17 and 18 February prompt this brief reply. Both editorials continue the Observer's wearing harassment of Mr. Ed Byrne's performance as SBP and SLC chairman. As a faculty member of the SLC, who has had the opportunity to observe some aspects of Mr. Byrne's performance, I wish to register a dissent from the Observer's editor­ial stance. Since I may be Mr. Byrne's chief ideological adversary on the SLC, this dissent may surprise him more than it does anyone else. 
The reason why the SLC is now beginning to show some "signs of life," and the reason why these signs of life offer some realistic promise for the accomplishment of projected objectives, is the fact that Mr. Byrne has done a good job of orchestrating the SLC's affairs. He inherited an SLC which was, as we all know, a farce; even the Obser­ver questioned whether there was any point to the perpetuation of the Council. 
He also inherited an SLC mem­bership which was, apart from the students and one or two others, not at all enthusiastic about serving -I was perhaps most guilty of this, and hence the criticism is aimed first at myself. Mr. Byrne's tenure as Chairman started with zero assets and zero prospects, and he had less reason to hope than anyone else that the SLC could accomplish anything. 
During the first few meetings of the SLC, a period which the Observer considers to be a waste­land, Mr. Byrne made, implemen­ted, and stuck with certain essen­tial, basic decisions. He made the point -against a fair amount of opposition from administrators and faculty -that the rules of procedure mandated by the SLC bylaws would be observed; and since then he has not been reluctant to gavel down a rambunctious associate professor or two. 
Mr. Byrne has done a lot of homework. and indeed has made homework a regular feature of SLC service. Homework takes time. But the result of homework well done is the generation of positions and proposals that are thorough, decis­ive, and relatively vulnerable to criticism. 
The Observer seems to be disap­pointed that Mr. Byrne did not go out to tilt a few windmills as soon as he was If he had, 
DOONESBURY 
t5T /1~ ~XPLAIN WHAT:S HAPPtiNIN6, MR. [)(JK£. TH/3 5C&N/3 IS IAT/3 /U!ZIMN IN TH~ YIMEN6 MOfJNTA!NS, 7H~ TINY, t!BfRATEO V!UA&& OF 
YIHO 61<£~75 TH~ !?AlAIN. 
....._,_ 
CHARM/Mi. 
{){/IT~ 
CHARMING. 
I 
the windmills would have won. Instead, he assigned homework, lots of homework, and kept his committees working. Homework is never very romantic, hardly the stuff of which headlines are made; but it can get things done. 
If, in the words of the Observer, the SLC's recent actions regarding social space and the student survey are "the first promising step along the obstacle course since the COUL Report first went to the Trustees," the fact that the step is promising is attributable to Mr. Byrne's home­work assignments. Mr. Byrne is not primarily interested in winning vast ideological struggles. He is interested in getting things done. 
While all the rest of this has been going on, Mr. Byrne has made significant initiatives designed to insure that the SLC's contributions continue. It is simply unrealistic to expect every vision, every hope, every desire and every whim to be satisfied in a few weeks or months. Mr. Byrne knows that he cannot do everyting solo; traditions and habi­ts are not changed overnight -nor should they all be. 
One great deficiency of the SLC is its lack of continuity from year to year, a mortal weakness for any legislative body. Almost unnoticed by the Observer, Mr. Byrne reco­mmended and won aproval of certain changes in the SLC bylaws which promise to provide a meas­ure of continuity from year to year. Some of these reforms may not be implemented for another year; but the necessary foundation for them has been adopted. 
I suspect that Mr. Byrne has a greater ambition than the simplist­ic desire to be acknmyledged as a Big Man On Campus. His ambition appears to be the hope that the precedents which he establishes may reap a harvest in years to come, years after the Observer has forgotten who he was. 
I think this is the firs-t time I have ever written a fan letter for a student. I am sure it will not beguile Mr. Byrne into the error of imagining that I w.ill vote with him at the next SLC meeting, for I shall probably continue to be the SLC's archfanatic conservative, fighting every idea he has to the death. But were Mr. Byrne one of my political historians instead of a philosophy major, I suspect he would be earning an "A". The student body could do worse than to elect a successor with his finesse. 
by Garry Trudeau 
ANI? 7Hl3 ARMY UNIFOR/15 TI-/EY'R/3 IA/EiARJN6 OPFCR. 8A51C YIN A N!C/3 [{)(}NTEI?.-ANO YANG, 
MI<..OUK/3. 
Wednesday, February 25, 1976 the observer 
5 
Campus crime problem diminished 
by Mike VIllani Staff Reporter 
Burglaries have been at a mini­
mum on campus over the past three 
months, according to Chief of 
Security Arthur Pears. "The crime 
rate on campus is at a low with the 
exception of random larcenies oc­
curring in the ACC locker room, 
campus parking lots and a few 
on-campus residences,'' said 
Pears. 
Locker room robberies of bill­
folds arc a most frequent type of 
burglary and occur in the late 
afternoon. Pears attributed this to 
poor judgment in leaving lockers 
unsecured. Twelve cases of locker 
room burglaries at the ACC have 
been reported in the last 60 days. 
The Rockne Memorial has no real problems with this due to a security system which includes checking identification cards at the 
door. 
Nine cases of automobile break­ins that resulted in C.B. radio thefts have been reported over the past two to three months. This follows a national trend of such robberies. The only means of prevention are the existing secur­ity patrols of campus parking lots. 
On-campus dorms rate last on security's list of larcenies. Accord­ing to Pears, this is due to "a fairly good watch system on the part of most residents, and good encour­agement to students to keep doors secure whenever absent from rooms." 
However, the room of two stud­ents in Farley was burglarized Monday evening. Feb. 16. Two watches, one ring and small change were reported stolen. One of the residents explained, "The door was left open while my roommate left the room. When she returned she noticed the missing change." 
That same evening between lO and 12 p.m., Sr. Jean Lenz, rector of Farley, had her purse stolen. Security was alerted in both cases. pears commented, "Right now we have no leads to go on. These sneak-thief burglaries could better be prevented if more students would lock their doors after leaving the rooms." 
James E. Murphy, R.A. at 
Morrissey Hall, noted. "Since the beginning of the school year, thefts .have not presented any major problems to the residents here in 
Morrissey." 
The least of all affected halls is Corby. Superior Fr. John Gerber attributed the hall's good record to "few visits, minimal traffic and a stringent locking system." 
A few cases of stolen televisions and stereos have occurred where halls are wide open and rarely locked. 
Final SLC elections set for today 
By Chris Hopkins Staff Reporter 
All three voting districts of tht. Students Life Council (SLC) will participate in today's election due to the fact no candidate received a majority of the vote in Monday's primary. 
Jeff'limnickand Peter Haley will clash for the South Quad seat while Mary Charchut and Ed Van Tassel gained today's secondaries without opposition in Monday's run-offs for the North Quad. The Off-campus scat will be between Len Moty and John Steinman. 
Simnick reached today's finals with 42 percent of the South Quad vote in Monday's election while Haley pulled 32 per cent of the vote. Both candidate.s eliminated Pat Husscl from the contest in the primary. 
Simnick said, "The main thing is 
to lind out why the SLC is running 
into such a blot·k. The SLC is 
raising a lot of questions, but not 
accomplishing too much," he add­ed. 
Simnickexplained that the SLC's 
treatment of the Committee on 
Undergraduate Living (COUL) and 
the off-campus housing was good, 
but there is a need to generate more student interest in the SLC. Simnickhopes to appoint students to ad hoc committees in order to 
increase student involvement. 
After Monday's primary, Simnick 
stated, "I maintain my previously 
expressed opinions and ideas and if 
elected I will do my best to live up 
to the expectations of the students' 
Haley believes that the SLC has no power and to attain power it must receive the respect of the administration. Haley explained that there is too much emphasis on certain issues that are closed and the council should look into practi­cal aspects that can become reali­ties. 
According to Haley, "The only way to gain power is through success. If we look at practical aspects of what we can do and gain 
Parents weekend plans set 
by Kathy McEntee Staff Reporter 
The scheduled agenda planned 
for this coming weekend's Junior 
Parents Weekend will include a 
wide variety of activities. according 
to Nancy Cueroni, chairman of the 
event. 
Friday night's hockey game in 
which Notre Dame faces off against 
Minnesota-Duluth will serve as the 
opening event for the weekend. 
Following the game the juniors and 
their parents can visit with mem­
bers of the faculty and administra­
tion at a cocktail party in the 
concourse of the ACC. 
Collegiate workshops presented 
by the colleges of Science, Busi­
ness, Engineering, and Arts and 
Letters will be held on Saturday 
morning in Haggar Hall, Hayes­
Healy auditorium, the Engineering 
building lobby, and Washington 
Hall, respectively. 
On Saturday afternoon there will 
be a presentation of "Notre Dame 
Review," a slide show compiled by 
the Alumni Association. Several 
ND-SMC presents 'The Crucible' 
The Notre Dame-Saint Mary's 
Theatre will present The Crucible 
Feb. 27 and 28, and March 4, 5, 
and 6 at 8 P.M. in Saint Mary's 
O'Laughlin Auditorium. Directed 
by Frederic W. Syburg, associate 
professor of the Notre Dame-Saint 
Mary's speech and drama depart­
ment, the play features performan­
ces by Matthew McKenzie as John 
Proctor, Bridget Ragan as Eliza­
beth Proctor, and Lisa Colaluca as 
Abi~ail Williams. 
General admission tickets for the 
performances are $2, and may be 
obtained by calling 284-4176. 
shows will take place in the Library auditorium between 12:30 and 4 p.m. The Junior class Mass will be 
offered at 6:30 p.m. in Sacred Heart Church. After the mass the President's Dinner will be held in 
Stepan Center during which Fr. 
Hesburgh, president of the Univer­sity, will speak. Cueroni also pointed out that "buses will be 
running from Sacred Heart to Stepan so that juniors and their parents will not have to walk." 
The North Dining Hall will be the 
site of the closing breakfast on 
S d · t 8 30 D' 
un ay mornmg a : · tgger
Phelps, head coach of the basket­ball team, will be the guest speaker at the breakfast. 
success in these areas we will gain the respect of the administration and then power." 
Mary Charchut, a North Quad candidate is stressing five areas in her platform: communication bet­ween the SLC and HPC; responsi­bility of the student organizations to report their activities to students more social areas; more double listed courses and more student participation in the SLC. 
Charchut has worked for Busi­ness Review, Ombudsman and as hall co-ordinator of the social commission. She believes that she has experience that could be more important to the SLC because they need representation from all areas. 
Charchut stated, "There should be more student input into the SLC." She also stressed that freshman should be made more aware of the SLC and this aware­ness should continue throughout the four years to achieve a sense of continuity. 
Ed Van Tassel, Charchut's op­ponent, believes that he has the. invaluable experience that is a very importantfactor. TheSLChashad a problem with returning leader­ship from one year to the next, and 
this continuance of leadership and ideas is good. Van Tassell thinks that the SLC has dealt effectively and compre­hensively with COUL recommenda­tions. He said, "This year the SLC 
;IIIII~
PI! 
has done the best job ever for the He !
students since its inception."  
added, "The SLC has come to grip  PI!  
on  all  issues.  I do  not  promise  ~  
catchy phrases, but I do promise  :;11111  
the hard work that has brought the  ~  
SLC's suc~ess."  PI!  
In the off-campus primary elect­ ~  

Other misdemeanors reported on campus include harassing tele­phone calls to women. Pears stated, "Indiana Bell is coopera­ting with us on this problem and we are getting some good results." 
Also, two vending machines at the Galvin Life-Science Building and the Computer Center were vandalized during the past few months. 
The culprits usually include ju­veniles who frequent the campus, Pears said. Such individuals were prosecuted for gas-syphoning of parked student cars and thefts of car parts, he noted. 
The few dorm thieves arc un­known because they arc probably weekend walk-ons and the stolen property is hard to trace, he remarked. Pears added, "A num­ber of 'break-in and entering' cases have witnesses or informers that will not testify because they ju~t don't want to get involved, and this is to our disadvantage in solving crimes." 
Music Dept. plans summer workshops involving liturgy 
Notre Dame's Department of Music, in cooperation with the campus-based Murphy Center for Liturgical Research, plans two workshops this summer for persons involved in the contemporary cele­bration of Mass and other services. 
A goal is to provide substantive ideas in line with the demand for excellence in selection and realiza­tion of music for the living liturgy. 
The five-day workshops. June 27-July 3 and July 18-24, will focus on new musical liturgies, hymn festivals, recitals by professional artists and classes directed to evaluation of current publications. choral reading, parish liturgical 
commission, folk liturgy and re­hearsal techniques. 
Workshop leaders will include Rev. John Gallen, S.J., director of the Murphy Center; Sue Hender­
son Seid, University organist and director of liturgical music; Rev. Charles Faso, O.F.M., specialist in developing programs of music and liturgy in parishes and dioceses and Rev. Daniel Coughlin, editor of Liturgy 70 and president of the 
Federation of Dioc;es::a:n:_:L::,it:.:u::.r:gi:.:c.::.a:_l-==========:....::=:::::;:; 
Commissions since 1975. David Clark lsele, director of choral activities at Notre Dame. is direct­ing workshop arrangements. Sponsors say the workshop se~­sions will be especially helpful for choir directors, organists. cantor~. vocalists. instrumentalists and all who wish to participate in the activities of prayer. music and dialoguing together. Additional information may be obtained by writing to Music and Liturgy Workshop, Center for Continuing Education, Box W, Notre Dame. Ind. 46556. 
ARCHITECTURAL & MODEL SUPPLIES STRUCTURAL SHAPES 
BALSA WOOD 
~~'~ 
"l 
HOBBY SHOP INC. 713 NORTH MAIN ST. MISHAWAKA, IND. 
46544 
PHONE 255-8111 
~ NJ-·)
f--­
SMC 

All Seats$2.00 (Std Fac. $1.50) Alone: 284·4176 
THE CRUCIBLE 
Arthur Miller's povveriul dra­
ITB examining events sur. 
rounding the Salem witch 
hunts. 
Feb. 27, 28, Mar. 4, 5, 6 at 8:00P.M. OlAUGHLIN AUDITORIUM (St. Mary's) 
,..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.....~~~~~~~~...­
Management-ort"ented ~ 
PI! 
:;11111
Sales Trainees ~ 
! 
PI! 
PI! Ed Fanning Chevrolet, located in Aurora, illinois (soon to ~ be the second largest city in the state of illinois), will be on 
:;11111 
campus Tuesday, March 9, 1976 to recruit manage~nt-ori-~ 
Berkeley professor to speak I ::a::~~~:::~ on into manage~nt positions and beco~ I
• 1 • • ~ The personnel we are seeking should have the desire for an PI!
about chemlca engineering ambitious career ~ch would lead them dealership !
to 
ions, Moty and Steinman reached ~ ented sales trainees who would be interested in a career ~ the secondary elections by defeat-PI! opportunity with outstanding growth potential in the retail PI! ing Tom Digan and John Kinney. ;IIIII ;IIIII
PI! autom:>bile business. We are interested in voung, PI! 
Steinman tallied 51 votes, Moty • al " ~
:;11111 
received~~· Digan 24, and Kinney ~ aggressive S es personnel who will have the knowledge and j@ the remammg 13. ~ ability to grow with the future plans of the company, who will ~ 
Dr. Eugene E. Peterson, profes­sor of chemical engineering at the 
University of California at Berk­eley, will deliver two Peter C. Reilly lectures at the University of Notre Dame this week (Feb 25 and 26). The public is welcome to attend the lectures, which are sponsored by the Department of Chemical Engine~ring. 
Petersen will discuss "The Hy­drogen Spillover Connection." 
Wednesday (Feb. 25), in the Radiation Laboratory Conference Room at 4:15p.m. in the Chemical Engineering Bldg., room 269. 
A specialist in kinetics and combustion, catalysis, and heat and mass transfer, Petersen has taught at Berkeley since 1953 after earning his doctorate in fuel tech­nology from Pennsylvania State University. 
He is a consultant to the Stauffer 
. manage~nt-ownership. PI!
Chemtcal Co., and he belongs to 411( iillll several professional organizations -..~~~~~~~~......~~~~,....._~~'''~~~.. 
in eluding the American Chemical Society, American Institute of ChemicalEngineers, and American Institute of Aeronautical and As­
tronautical Engineers. 
RESEARCH 
FREE CATALOG! 
Write or call for your copy of our latest catalog of over 5,000 re­search studies. These studies are designed to HELP YOU IN THE PREPARATION of: 
· • Research Papers 
• 
Essays • Case Studies 

• 
Speeches • Book Reviews WE ALSO DO CUSTOM WRITING 


MINUTE RESEARCH 1360 N. Sandburg, #1602 Chicago, Illinois 60610 
312-337-2704 
~------­
,THE NOTRE DAME-SAINT MARY'S
THEATRE 
announces auditions for GODSPELL by Tebelek and Schwartz 
Singing Auditions: 
Sun. Feb. 29 at 1:00 P.M. Clld 7:00 P.M. Washington Hall ::;tageActing Auditions: 
Non. Mard11 at 6:00P.M. Washington Hall Lab Theatre (Use Rea-Stairway)To be CDnsidered for a role everyone rrust attend both singing Cl1d acting auditions. M.Jsical preparation is required. Audition materials available at lb>m 110, Nueau Hall 
--~-~-----~------------------------, 
Wednesday, February 25, 1976
the observer 

Ql. If my tax liability is less than $30 can I still use the $30 tax credit for dependents? 
A. No. Your tax credit will be limited to the amount of your tax Iiabilitv. However. you may be eligible for the Earned Income Credit-if: (a) your earned income is less ~h~n $8,000 and (b) y~:m maintained a household and (c) you are clatmmg a dependent chtld on vour 1975 return. 
Q2. 1 live in another state but earn income in Indiana while I'':fl in school. Do 1 have to pay tax in my home state on the lndtana income? 
A. This depends on your home state. In ~orne states all income is taxable. In other states, such as Indiana. mcome from out-of-state is not taxable in the home state. 
()3. 1 am doing post-graduate work and receive a fellowship for this. Is this taxable? 
A. The fellowship is not taxable is it is related to activity (e.g. research, teaching) which is required for yo~r. de_gree. . 
The fellowship is taxable if the related acttvtty ts not requtred as part of a degree program. 
Arts & Letters presents program 
that Dr. Isabel Charles, dean of the program are open house visits to College of Arts and Letters, will the colleges. Open houses are now make general remarks regarding being held for the College of the good points of a liberal educa-Science and the College of Arts and tion. Letters will have them next week. 
"I will then give the nitty-gritty, Information about their times and such as course requirements and locations is available in the Fresh­college procedures," Waddick con-man Learning Resource Center. tinued. Richar{) J. Thompson, Videotapes and pamphlets on assistant dean of the College of education and careers in the vari­Arts and Letters, will follow outli-ous areas related to the programs ning special programs such as Arts in Arts and Letters are also and Letters Pre-Professional and available in the Freshman Learning Arts and Letters Engineering. Resource Center this week. 
John Lyon, chairman of the On March 5. there will be a General Program of Liberal Stud-question and answer period about ies, will highlight the General the Arts and Letters programs. Program of Liberal Studies, which This will be held from 4 p.m. to 5 is different from Arts and Letters. p.m. in room 184 of O'Shaughnes­

by Barbara Ann Langhenry Staff Reporter 
As a part of the "spotlight" program, which is designed to aid freshmen with the transition into sophomore year, the College of Arts and Letters will present a talk and discussion period tomo:row in Washington Hall at 7 p.m. 
··Education in the College of Arts and Letters." will feature the deans of the college. Robert J. Waddick. assistant dean of the College of Arts and Letters, stated 
Carroll students relate problems 
(contmued from page 3) student government. Weiher has one assistant, a student given the title of "Hall Manager" and appoi­nted by Weiher. In the last year there has been some antagonism between the Hall Manager and a group of students in Carroll Hall. There have been efforts by these students to remove him and replace him with an elected student gove­rnment. . Weiher said "They are unrealist­
ic. because the enormous hunk of people (at Carroll Hall) are too busy to participate." Weiher added that the number of students working for a new hall government was a small hard core group. "The basic prob­lem as I see it is a personal feud between a few students and the hall manager. 
The group of students say that that is not the case. They assert many of the foreign students at Carroll have expressed a desire for student government privately, but since they are in the country on visas, they don't want to get involved in any sort of controversy. 
In a statement to The Observer, the dissatisfied student stated: ·'This life has a negative reflection of American life on the foreign students. The graduate life reflects how the foreign students will view America.
.. 
There was a general consensus on the part of both Weiher and the students that the social activities for graduates are almost null. Although they did not see eye-to­eye on how to fund various activit­ies, both parties felt there was a general lack of social space for the 
.graduate students. 
Beytagh talks on law school 
by Sue BaUmann Staff Reporter 
Professor Frank Beytagh of No­tre Dame's law school discussed legal education and applying to law school with St. Mary's Law Society in LeMans Hall. 
"The student must ask himself if he really wants to commit himself to law school or if he is using it to delay making decisions on career choices," stated Beytagh. 
Beytagh noted, ''There are qua­ntitative tests such as the LSAT to measure academic potential, but there are no tests to measure motivation." He added, "Writing a paragraph on why you want to got to law school doesn't always pro­duce the real reasons. 
"Although Notre Dame has a high percentage of government majors in its law school, no specific major is necessary for law school,'' Beytagh stressed. He recommend­ed history because it "provided the necessary background in writing and expressing problems." 
-LSAT controversy 
Beytagh continued the discus­sion. commenting on the contro­versy over the LSAT's, "Once the student reaches a certain score, say over 600, there is a question as to whether there is much difference between a 600 and 650." 
"Some schools have a predicted first year average," he observed, "using a combination of the LSAT and the grade point average. He noted that this type of prediction is "fairly risky because a student might have a high grade point average and a low LSAT score.'' In this case the prediction does not reflect the high grade point aver­age. 
Beytagh also touched on the subject of law school interviews. Although N.D. admissions com­mittee supports the idea of interviews for those who want them, Beytagh personally opposes them. He feels that "interviews tend to exclude prospective stu­dents, rather than include them. They build up false hopes." He continued: "Students often spend a great deal of time and money for a trip and are given a ten-minute interview." 
He feels that law schools should feed one another and exchange information on applications. "Mo­st schools have to overadmit in order to get the right size class. However, many accepted students don't give the school indication in the allotted time as to whether or not they plan to attend. This. in turn, causes many other students to be rejected.'' explained Bey­tagh. 

Radical Perspective series Wednesday, February 25, 1976 the observer 
7 
Thurow gives exam on incomes to audience 
integrated welfare with taxes, gave the Humphrey-Hawkins Bill now Staff Reporter analogy of a game. "No one would 
incentive to work and had adminis­under consideration. play the game of economic advanc­trative costs of 2 per cent whereas "The bill is not a very ROOd one 
by Frank Tennant Thurow put his major idea in the 
Lester Thurow treated the audi­
ement if they were not sure of welfare costs 30 per cenr. but the principle behind it is ence to an unexpected exam at the 
During the question period Thu­important," Thurow said.
getting a minimum prize." hebeginning of his lecture, Income 
listed three aspects of the game. row added the negative income tax lhurow satd believing in theInequality: Causes and Cures, 
First, men must decide there will had been tested in New Jersey with Puritan work ethic and not guaran­yesterday afternoon. 
teeing everyone a job is "like the
be a "fair distribution of prizes." good results. "The people who
The talk was part of the Ameri­
paid it did not retire to the beach Church telling you to go to mass on,Next, they make up a set of rulescan Future, A Radical Prespective and worked just as hard as the Sunday and then locking the chur­for all games must have rules.
lecture series. Thurow, Professor 
control group." ches on Sunday."
Finally, they must determine a fairof Economics at M.I.T., Economic 
The second technique is the The next lecture will be given bystarting point.
advisor to McGovern in 1972, and 
guaranteed job. Thurow predicted,­Rosemary Ruether today at I: 15 inThurow said "the revolutionaryauthor of numerous books, was ,'this will be the dominant issue in Washington Hall. Finley Campbell fore-fathers believed in 100 perintroduced by Charles Wilber, the upcoming presidential cam­will conclude the series with a talkcent inheritance taxes becauseProfessor of Economics at Notre paign." This technique is found in at 8:00 tonight in Washington Hall.
being able to inherit gave someoneDame. 
a head start." It made the gameThurow gave the audience of unfair and fairness is the "key300, mostly students, the exam to 
Serebrier to visit SMC
ingredient." After outlining the game, Thu­
bring out many facts about wealth 
and income in America which most Foundation Award, the YoungThe St. Mary's College Depart­
row listed two techniques to change 
people do not know. To the ment of Music is sponsoring a Composer's Award from Broadcast 
surprise of the audience, the facts the distribution of income. three-day residency of Jose Sere­Music, Inc.. and a State Depart­
The negative income tax insures
showed the extent of unequal brier, an internationally-recognized ment Fellowship. The recipient of 
a minimum prize to all. He said it THUROW
distribution of wealth. conductor and composer, Feb. two Guggenheim Fellowships. he 24-26. During his residency, Sere­became. at 19. the youngest fellow brier will participate in two forum in the history of the Guggenheim discussions and in a music depart­program. He also received two
Burtchaell addresses HPC 
ment concert. Dorati Fellowships from the Uni­versity of Minnesota. as well as the(continued from page I) Monday's election. He tried to more no room charge. He suggest Serebrier, born in Uruguay . 
Pan American Union PublicationFr. Burtchaell thought the HPC . clear· up problems in communica­strongly that halls secure buses made his conducting debut in 1949 Award. a Harvard Musical A!>socia­.. 
ha!-> taken some of the initiative tion that existed. (Some halls did with a $35 deposit. The hall would at the age of II. In 1955. Aaron tion Award and the Ford-Fnunda­away from student government. not know when the election were get its deposit back with any Copland invited him to study at tion Peabody Institute American"There is to some degree competi­being held) The election was additional profit going to Ombuds­Tanglewood. Since then, Serebrier Conductor's Project Award. 
tion between the two groups, which supervised by Ombudsman with man. has studied and worked w.ith such Screb.rier will participate 111 is good. though the HPC would hall coordinators supervising each He also announced the Armory masters as Pierre Monteux, Leo­A forum. entitled. "Thenaturally concern itself more with hall. Dance for April 9 and one for the pold Stokowski and Antal Dorati, Composer, Serebrier." is set for hall life:" Charlie Moran of the Student Irish Wake during An Tostal. and was selected to be Composer­4:30 p.m. Wed., Feb. 25. in the Asked about the SLC. he thought Union Social Commission said the The HPC ended the meeting In-Residence of the Cleveland Little Theatre. A Department of the organization he helped esta­committee due to problems with early by forming a committee on Orchestra. 
Music concert, featuring ,itt' musicblish in I 908 was not as effective as the police the Hidelburg has been University Laundry service and a 
of Ives and Serebrier, will begin atit once was. Originally it was a closed to hall parties. As an review committee to submit a 
8 p.m. Thurs. Feb. 26 in the Little forum to bring conflicting opinions alternative he suggested Four Flag report for the incoming HPC this Theatre. 

together." which has $45 kegs, six kegs or spring. 
Asked for a description of a rectors responsibilities he said a rector has to be responsible for everything. He then went on to say, he has to be aware that Notre Dame is an educational community defend the common good, be fair and tolerant, have previous ac­quaintance with Notre Dame, and have the time the job requires. 
Pete Gottsacker, chairman of the election committee under Ombuds­man. reported that 57 per cent of the on-campus population voted in 
WANJB) 
Ride needed to D. C. Baltirrore <W'W. Spring vacation. Will dri'-1'!, pay il'ld bring chodate chip axJkies. call 7820 
Desperately need ride to Holly.MJOd A.A. <nXl 0\/l!r spring break. Rease call 3279. 
Need 2 GA Nlil'quette tix. You narre price. Call 8321. 
Need 2 GA Nlil'quette tix. /Wry 1285 
Need ride to A ttsburgh Fh Feb. 27 CalI em 8729 
Desperately need ride to california for spring breakCillleave cnytirre Rease call Olir1ie 8822 
Ride to East la1sing !MSU) for this ~needed. Calll<lse 4-4698 
As rrmy Western Micnigcn tickels as ')QJ ere wiling to sell. call Fhil 289-9164 
Desperate! y need 2 GA M:l'quelte tix. 
call Werd 1697 
Need 3 M:l'quette tix call ~ 287-3897 
Need 2 GA Nlil'quette tix call lim 8685. 
Need ride to Bloorrington or Louisville for ~. 28th Feb. ecn leave Thur!.. after 4 pm call 7920 
Help a )OUI19 gir1 find happiness l-'1der the Golden D>rre. 2 GA Nlil'quette tickels Aeas$$ Olristie 6800 
Wcnted: Desperately need 1 or 3 Mrquette GA tix at ')QJr price. call GYy 3326. 
Need ride 1o Illinois State U'liv. Feb. 27 
call 4773 carrille. 
Need Mrquelte tix. call carrille 4773 
Ride needed to KaiCI1'fllOO, 2-27-27 call !Wry5384 
-~~· 
~ir Richard's 
BARBER STYLING
~ w ~ 
~~~~~-------­
UNISEX HAIR STYLING 
129 DIXIEWAY SOUTH ROSEtAND IN PORTAGE REALTY BUILDING 277..0734 

---------.
!
presents  
I  JULES AND JIM  I  
I III  TONIGHT AND WED. ENGINEERING AUDITORIUM  I III  

·L-------!~~~;!~~-!_1..;.~-------J 
Classified Ads  
4 girts need rides to Houston, Sen Antonio,  2 room; for rent $40  call 233-1329.  
or cn.,.-..tlere South of there for spring  LOST& R:>UND  
break.  Will  shcre driving,  gas.  call  Sumrer houses il'ld room; for rent-real  PERSONALS  
~ieat6798  Lost in ACC lod<er room -1 gold braided  dose lo carrpus.  Furnished ridirulously  
ll\€dding  ba1d.  Rew:rd  offered  .  no  reasorni:>le.  233-261~ or 232-7263.  
Must ha'-1'! 3 Nlil'quelte tix.  call  John  questions askro 277-1568 or 283-7516  IWNOISANS:  CAN  'IOU  SPARE  A  
1462.  4,~.6  bedroom houses  cnrrpletety furn­ WEEK B'jD TO  HElP IN GOVERNOR  
R:>RSAL.E  ished  extrerrely  nice.  ~I  dose  to  WALKER's ca-rpaigning for reelection?  
Need Nlil'quelte tix.  Call J:>e at 287-5113.  rugby  shirts.  carrpus. SepterrtJer 1976 9 rronth lease. 233-2613 or 232-7263.  TRANSFORTf>,TION. MEALS PROVIDED.  LDDGJ,NG, AND R:>R DETAILS,  
Desperately need GA M:l'quelte tix. Tom at 7781.  call  Why pay rrore?? Get ')Q.Jr green&gold, blue&gold or red&blue rugby shirt for $13.00. call Qlve 277-0948  NOTICES  CALl. THIS WEEK, CATHY284-4103 SMC ND~mrer progra-n; l.a1don  
(fo.Nry \8-J\Jne 18) l<lrre (JI.A1e 17-~ly 16)  
Wcnted Need desperntely as rrmy M:l'quette tix as possible call ~Y 6896 Need GA end student fix for Man!tJefte  l'«lusefor Sale B:Jison Rrk3 bedroom full baserrent fenced y.rcJ call: 233-8512  lYPING: 35 cents per pg. Ack-up & [)!til.1'!rY s2.oo ca11 em 272-5549  College credits avail. ~ intor. call A-of. A. R Black 284-4938 (ofl or 272-3726 (Hon-e) •  
badly. Please call flllt 1654. Wcnted: 2 Nlil'quette tix PLS call  Terri  Rred­rrust sell stereo CXlfTl)OI1erlts 259-8447 6-S pm  18/IA Selectric II typing. dissertation. Bq:Jerienced.  IWrlusaipts, 289.5193  H~ 21st Birthday, Scndy. Having a A:rty? c.Jil <:eM!  for  low  
287-6638  ~  Sale  ND!IiMC Council for the retcn:led.  cmce  dismunts in kegs il'ld cases.  free deli1.1'!rY­ 
Need'M:I'quette tix.  call 8'icn1606  ll.Jal1218 Cilfl1)1ete wth at 13 ea artridge Ste\.1'! 1024  Wed. 7:30 to 10:00 Questions Tom Hil'bin 287-6673, Kathy McGlynn 288-4315  277-0948  
t'leed 2 GA Nlil'quette tix. call John 1818. Desperate! y need 1 GA Nlil'quelte tix Call  Disneytcnd M.Jrals from fv\cnji Gras for sale. Call 1348  Acwrate, 232-0746  fast  typing,  tvrs.  OJnoho.  H. T. il'ld T~lings ,Take us to Toa:l TOIII.er!! Your.; Toa:lty, T. N.D. R N.  
stcK:v 6893  ~  sate  Rich  IWr1  Rxlr Ntal  rmv at  Ardara's  Get ps)Uled hot dog!  Let's be high point  
Need up to 4 M:l'quette fix. student or GA. Will Aiv any price. call R!te, 234-6352.  1968 [):)(jge Olarger 318, autorratic. pcM€1' steering. Great Cllnd. srcm tires o& rrB;J Vlkleels included. $600.00 call  Books. daily.  937 So.  Bend A'-1'!.  10:00-7:00  SCXJrer! l..!ll.1'!, Sunshine Sony, no per.;onats this~  You nissed  
~ .2 M:l'quette tic.  call  81een  or  272-1710 or 272-4777 after 5:30 pm  Greyhound Bus lo Olicago leaves JIAain Cirde el.1'!rY Fi'iday at 5 :45. call Tom at  ~re chcnce last tirre!  R R  
Naion 6798.  ~Sale: 1967 olds delta 88,  AQed 1M!!I.  8338 for seat reservation.  It looks as if things rrav be pid<ing up for  
Need 2 Nlil'quette tix.  Student or GA.  Best offer 289-8032. Keep trying  Traveling during spring break?  Cut rosts  ')QJ Big Ter. D:lR' t let il get ')QJ dow1. They're only Cffitles burning!  
Narre price. Jim 3252. Need ride to F\Jrdue this ~! call 4954. Desperate! Need ride to''A. L.auderdale for springbreak.. call 4-430.  Must sell, 1973 super beetle, orcnge 32,000 niles, amfrn. defogger, excellent tires & interior, rea:nt tune up, phone orteave rressage for Beni 234:2101 ext. so 9 am6pm 289-8111 9pm12..n asking $2150 or beSt otter.  of getting there! Vans il'ld ca-s to rrmy points in U.S. A. call Auto Di\I61WIY. 232-1414. 11-fE AMERICAN RJT\JRE: A RADICAL I'ERSI'ECTlVE TODAY Rl:lsenHy Rllelher 1:15 pm Washington  UMOC 'is coning About that problem: hiM! ')QJ thought that mr,1:le alcohol IS the problem? call Alggy Bimum 8809, alcchol <IlUilselor,  
1\w gins need ride to Olicago ilnlil Riday.  R:>RRBfl ..ext SChool .,_-­9 rronth  tease.  TY.o  Hall RnleyCiln1Jbell8:00 pmW~ington Hall  Classified  
Call Miry 4537 or 4438.  furnished houses.­4 bea-oom end bedroom nea-N.D. call 234-2626.  5  MEETlNG-Mass. N. Nex. W.Va. & Del.  Ads  
Need IWrly Western 233-9841 after 10 pm  Mien  tix!!!  call  Furnished houses, tv.o to ~ bedroom  delegations 111. 6:30 Keenan basem!nt.  Get  
Available for Septen1Jer or June.  call  
234-9364.  Results!!!!  

.. 
.. 
., 

8 
the observer Wednesday, February 25, 1976 
Digger hoping to win first at Dayton 

John Albers registered an impressive victory over Mike Orlando in the first round of the Bengal Bouts last night. (Photo by Chris 
Smith) by Fred Herbst 
Digger Phelps has never done it. Johnny Dee never did it before him. In fact, Notre Dame hasn't beaten Dayton at Dayton in their last four attempts. 
Phelps has never beaten Dayton on the road, losing both games that he's coached there. The Flyers beat the Irish 86-74 in Phelps' first season as Notre Dame was on its ­way to a 6-20 record. Phelps returned to Dayton in 1974 boasting 
a nationally-ranked squad with a record of 25-1. only to be upset by the Flyers 97-82 in the season's finale. 
Needless to say, Phelps and his Irish hope to reverse this trend when they invade Dayton tonight. The Flyers enter the contest with a record of 12-11. and are coming off a 71-66 win over Akron last Saturday. 
Dayton is led by All-American candidate Johnny Davis. The 6-1 guard is averaging 20.1 points per game and is the main man in the Flyer attack. Davis is joined in the
.. 
backcourt by Leighton Moulton, a 
6-4 senior who is scoring 11.2 
points per contest. 
Jim Paxson starts at forward for 
Dayton, and is the team's second · their best basketball of the season. leading scorer with an average of In last Saturday's win over South 
13.0 points per game. Erv Giddings Carolina, the Irish placed five (6-7, 12.2 p. p.g.) starts along with players in double figures in their 
Murphy KOs Harbert in highlight of opening round Ben-gal Bouts 
by Rich Odioso One second Phil Harbert was controlling his ISS-pound bout with Kevin Murphy, seemingly well on his way to starting a successful defense of his two Bengal Bout titles. The next second he was staring face down at the canvas, inches away. In between the two ticks of the clock was Murphy's quick punishing right-hand. · Afterward, a dazed Harbert commented, "I didn't see it. First think I knew I was down. Was I really down for ten seconds?" However long Harbert was down, his legs wobbled when he got to his feet and a knockout was declared SS seconds into the third round. Murphy confessed afterwards, "I was very surprised by the KO. I
• ... would have lost the fight otherwise. 
Roland Chamblee in my corner told me to throw the right before the third round. Then he yelled during the round again, 'Throw the right,' ·and I did. His guard was down; I guess I got lucky." 
Although one defending champion is out of the way, Murphy conceivably must beat two more to claim the title in 155, the Bouts' best-balanced division. His next opponent is veteran John Albers, another champion last year, who looked sharp in besting Mike Orlando. Matt McGrath, the third returning champion in the division, easily handled Marty Fahey while Joe Cooler stopped 
.. 
Mike Shaw with a third round KO. 
All told 25 bouts were contested last night as Dominick J. "Nappy" Napolitano's 45th Bengals got un­derway before 3,675 fans at the ACC. Not all of the matches were artistic successes but a good num­ber were interesting. 
Possibly the best-contested fight from beginning to end came in 165 when speedy Randy· Payne rallied for a unanimous decision over hard-hitting Pat .Concannon. There were numerous multi-punch flur­ries with Concannon gaining a slight advantage prior to the final round. Then Payne won the fight backing Concannon into a corner early in the round and utilizing a lightning left jab to keep Concan­non at bay thereafter. 
Another good fight saw hustling Peter Cannon split decision gutsy Kerry Moriarity in a 160 bout. The feisty Moriarity decked Cannon with a quick left late in the first round but Cannon controlled the rest of the match with a long. quick, stabbling left jab. 
The best match in the 175-pound category saw grizzled veteran Dan Ruettiger slug out a split decision over John Thornton. "That man's tough, isn't he?" breathed Ruetty after the fight. "I was really worried about him. I felt I landed more punches, though it was some fight." Ruettiger will meet Tom Plouff who rallied in the final round to best a tiring Gus Cifeli. Casey Land handled Chip Brink in the Paxson at forward for the Flyers. 
Center Tony Wells rounds out the starting line-up for the Flyers. The 6-9 Wells, prone to foul 
trouble,  scores  at  a  rate  of  6.9  
points per tilt.  
Giddings  leads  Dayton's  
rebounders,  pulling  down  12.2  

boards a game. He is followed by Wells, who averages SA rebounds per contest. 
Coach Don Donoher has serious problems when he is forced to go to his bench. Donoher seldom substi­tutes, but when it is necessary he has reserves Fred Eckert (6-10, 
5.4 p.p.g.) and Terry Ross (6-9, 3.0 p.p.g.). 
"Dayton's a good ball club," Dick Kuchen, assistant Notre Dame coach, said. "Their major asset is that they're one of the quicker teams that we've faced in the last five or six games." 
While the Flyers are primarily a man-to-man defensive team, Kuchen expects to see some zone from them. "The South Carolina game was a great game. We proved that we can play against a zone and we communicated really well," Kuchen said. 
Notre Dame enters tonight's game with Dayton playing some of best team effort offensively of the year. 
Adrian Dantley continues to lead the Irish in . scoring with a 28.5 average, but Bill Paterno, Duck Williams and Dave Batton have all been scoring more of late. 
While Dayton is 12-11 on the 
other 175 bout. 
In· a reversal of Bengal form, 
crowd disagreements with the offi­
cials' decisions were relatively few. 
Most of the crowd reaction was 
reserved for Bob Wails' unanimous 
decision over Pat Landfried. 
Neither fight did much damage in 
the contest with the judges appar­
ently disenchanted with Landfri­
ed's unorthodox style. 
Only one of the two returning 
champions saw action in the 135­
pound weight class. Dave Tezza 
was very impressive as he shred­
ded Pat DeMay's reach advantage 
and landed whirling punches to the 
face and shoulders throughout. 
. Class-by-class summary 
125 --In the only bout of the 
night, Terry Philban won a cautious 
split decision over Tom Thanas. 
135 --Tezza and Diamond the 
winners with byes going to Dave 
Reyna and Mike Healy. Thurs­
day's bouts are Diamond-Reyna 
and Healy-Tezza. 
145 --Not an especially impres­sive division. The best bout saw Greg Bachman use his reach to outpoint Mike Mullin. Pat O'Con­nell won a sloppy split decision from John Talbot while Mike Murphy and Bob Jeanguenat were easy winners over Joe Ferrarai and Jack D'Aurora respectively. 
150 --Jim Quinn won the Red 
Cross Award for the night, drawing 
a gusher of blood from George 
Nalley for a second-round TKO. 
Landfried won the close decision 
over Walls while Kevin Ricotta took 
a solit decision from Dan Lackner. 
ISS --Already covered above. 
Thursday's semi-finals match 
Murphy vs .. Albers and Cooler vs. 
McGrath. 
160 --In addition to Cannon's 
win, Tom Brennan, Kevin Smith 
and Mike Thomas were winners in 
a series of desultory fights. 
165 --Matt Ratterman sent blood splashing onto ringside spectators as he did a nose job on Mike Corcozan enroute to a second­round TKO. Tom Kelly won a hard-hitting slugfest from Jim Harig. Brian 
Temme won a cautious fight from John Ricotta. 
175 --Thursday's semis are Land vs. Jeff Bartlett (bye) and Ruettiger vs. Plouff. 
Action also gets underway Thursday in the exciting 185 and heavyweight divisions. The semi­finals start at 8. 
*Observer 
Sports 
Lyons captures womens' interhall championships 
by Eileen O'Grady 
Lyons emerged the victor in the women's interhall basketball tour­nament Sunday, after beating pre­viously unbeaten Farley 40-24 . 
The game opened with a very frustrating first quarter, as the teams battled to a 2-2 tie. Defenses were tight, but the teams were plagued by continous fouls. 
In the second quarter, both offenses started clicking. Mary Hadlock, playing forward for Far­ley, led their offense scoring six points. Kathy McRae did the same for Lyons, also connecting for six points. The half ended in a 14-14 tie. 
The second half ws a different story. From here on out, it was Lyons' ball game. 
Late in the third quarter Kate Dickinson, playing forward for Lyons, hit a streak and scored eight consecutive points on fast break lay-ups. All tolled, Dickinson connected for 12 points in the game. Susie Augustus. playing 
Irish sixth in recent poll 
AP 
1. Indiana (55) 2J.Il u;n 2. Marquette (21 2'1-1 l.f)((l •3. Rutg!'rs (I) 23-0 7f<i 4. North Carolina ~~-2 762 ~-Ne\'·Las Vegas (I) 2.l-1 691 6. Notre Dame 211-4 ii07 7. Alabama 1\1.~ 446 8. Washington 21-:l 3!1-1 9. UCLA :!6-4 371 10. Maryland 1\1.5 35.'i 11. Tennessee 18-4 269 12. Missouri 22·3 254 13. MIChigan 1i-5 20ti 14. St. John's ~3 133 
15. N. C. State 111-5 1!4 IS. W. Michigan ~I 54 17. Oregon 17·9 43 
18. Cincinnati I~ :w 19. Cmtenary 22-4 :!9 20. Texas A&M 20-5 2!1 
guard, also made her move in the second half, racking up 14 points for the game, making her high point scorer. Their combined efforts gave Lyons the lead for good. Part of Lyons' success was due to their fine defense. Using man-to­man throughout the game, their continous pressure eventually wore Farley out. Although Farley had more height, Lyons won the game on speed. They were quicker and hustled more for loose balls and steals. Lyons also had a better percentage at the free throw line. Farley entered the contest with a 6-0 record, ending the regular season undefeated and beating Walsh in the playoffs. This same Farley team also went undefeated last year, eventually winning it all. This is their first loss in two years. 
Ski team enjoys fine weekend 
The Notre Dame ski team enjoy­ed another successful weekend as they competed in one of a series of MCSA races. Despite the fact that their van blew up and they had to travel around in a·. U-haul, the skiers managed to capture third place in the women's contest and fourth place in the men's competi­tion. 
In the women's slalom race, Sara Bartzen finished 4th and Ann Hawkins 6th to capture points for ND. Nora Duffy, a freshman from St. Mary's, took Sth in the Giant Slalom and Bartzen placed 7th. 
A second-place finish in the Giant Slalom by Pete Rowland headed the men's performance. Pat Stenger was sixteenth in that event. Pat Gleason was tops for NO in the slalom event with an 8th place finish. 
season, they are 9-3 at home. Despite their lack of success in Dayton, the Irish hold a 6-S lead in that series. 
After tonight's contest, Notre Dame returns home to close the season against Marquette on Sat­urday and Western Michigan on Monday night. 
Tonight's game wilJ be televised on the Spoelstra Sports Network, WGN-TV (channel 9 in Chicago) and can be heard on WNDU, WSBT and WSND radio. 
Tip-off is set for 8 p.m. 
