
server 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's 
Monday, December&, 1976

Vol. XI, No. 59 
Police raid nets criminals 
bv Chris Smith Anticipating that many off­efforts, she advises students not to Asst.-Managing Editor campus students have items among call the police station next week. those that were received by the "If you aren't contacted this A dramatic scene unfolded in the police at their fencing operation, week," she advised, "then give the 
pre-dawn hours last Friday morn­Associate Off-Campus Housing police a call at 233-1123." The 
ing. Dec. 3. as over 200 police and Director Darlene Palma has offered caller should, if possible, be able to 
FBI agents began arresting sus­to assist in returning the goods to provide descriptions and serial 
pects who sold stolen property to a their owners. numbers of stolen articles and the 
police-operated fencing operation. Palma advised that the police date of theft. 
This was only the climax to nine will be contacting owners of the Police noted that only Items 
months of undercover work. during merchandise during the coming stolen during the last nine months 
which policemen bought stolen week. To avoid hampering police are likely to be recovered. 
goods to gain the evidence they needed to arrest their suspects. 1976. Over the next nine months, typewriters and CB radios. more than 400 purchases were Among the items received at the A Storefront Operation made from over ISO persons. storefront were 58 typewriters The police estimated that the stolen from Concord High School in According to FBI Agent Robert total cost of the operation was Elkhart earlier this year. Radde. a storefront, manned by about $65,000. That money was Many guns, ranging from hand­FBI agents and the state police, used for equipment involved in the guns to rifles, were also purchased was set up at 719 LaPorte Ave. At operation and to buy stolen mer­by agents. Among the weapons is this location. they purchased stolen chandise which was brought to the a rifle inlaid with mother of pearl, merchandise that was brought to storefront. valued at $5000. Several of the 
them. According to officials, nearly one weapons have been traced to The store opened last March, million dollars in stolen goods were crimes that occurred earlier this and the first purchase of stolen purchased. The items included year. property was made on March 3. luxury automobiles, motorcycles, The merchanidise that police ~ bought over the nine-month opera­
tion of the storefront is stored in warehouses while police try to identify and locate the owners. Officials expressed hope that 90 percent of the property will be returned to the owners. 
A small fraction of the items will be retained for use as evidence against those arrested during Friday's raid. 
Details of the raid 
Preparations for the massive raid began last November, when county and federal grand juries handed down more than 150 indictments against almost 80 persons. The evidence for the indictments was taken from police testimony. video recordings and tape recordings. all gathered since March at the store­front operation. 
On last Thursday night, police held a "party for their best customers." This "party" was a ruse used by police to draw forth their most dangerous suspects. 
As the invited suspects arrived at the "party," they were arrested. In all, 16 suspects were taken into 
[continued on page 8] 

Radical change forseen 
W ASIDNGTON [AP] When six­Congress. Albert was a leader with practicalities of Boston politics and foot-three Thomas P. O'Neill takes a strain of personal shyness and by long legislative experience, over the House speaker's chair one willing to go to extra lengths in including the speakership of the which five-foot-four Carl Albert search of consensus among Demo­Massachusetts House. He knows occupied for six years, there will be crats. that, while the speaker may be the more to the change than meets the most powerful member of the
O'Neill has said: 
eye. national House, he cannot, in 1977,
''I think the speaker of the House 
be all-powerful.

With no opposition in sight, the in Congress should be like the O'Neill, more gregarious thanbig white-haired Massachusetts Massachusetts speaker, all­his immediate predecessors, is aDemocrat appears certain to be powerful. He should appoint jolly, story-telling 240-pounder who chosen for the top leadership post committee chairmen and remove likes gatherings, Irish and other­
them if they stray from the party
today when the Democratic caucus wise, poker and golf.
meets to organize the House it line. He should be answerable only He worked loyally with Albert asdominates. to the caucus, which can remove ~party whip and leader, punctilioushim at any time. 
O'Neill, now majority leader, not to steal the limelight but
"I'd throw the seniority system 
appears equally certain to bring a occasionally showing signs of rest­
out on its ear... " 
new style to the speakership. iveness when decisions seemed to
That was said three years ago, 
be delayed.

Going by his record, he will be well before Albert announced his When evidence against Presi­more outspokenly partisan, more retirement and while O'Neill's own dent Richard M. Nixon was accu­available to the media as a spokes-· speakership was still a long-range mulating and some members were man for his party and Congress, goal. As the caucus election going off on their own with more willing to lay down the law to approaches, O'Neill, evercon­impeachment resolutions, O'Neillhis colleagues on Democratic scious that Albert is still' speaker used his persuasive powers topositions. and that as majority leader he is convince the other leaders they
only number two, has consistently
"Vacillation is always a problem should accept the inevitable, fore-·
refused to be interviewed on his
in leadership," he once said, "but stall the hotheads and prepare
views of leadership. 
it's not going to be mine." methodically for the proceedings His will not be the low-key style Moreover, O'Neill is above all a that led to impeachment articles of Albert, who is retiring from realist, schooled in the complex voted by the Judiciary Committee. 


by Marian Ulicny Staff Reporter 
Student Union's board of direc~ tors met for the first time this year to define its' role in guiding Student Union policy. 
According to the Student Go­vernment constitution, the Student Union board of directors "shall determine the policies of the Stu­dent Union and be responsible for its smooth operation." The board is comprised of Ken Ricci, Student Union director and board chair­man, Walt Ling, associate director, Mary Ann Morgan, comptroller, Mike Gassman, student body presi­dent, Mike Casey, vice-president, Eric Ryan, treasurer and Brother John Benesh, representative of the Office of Student Affairs. 
Student Union officials expres­sed differing opinions concerning the revival of the board and its function. 
Ling stated that the board ''has always been there, just never used. 
The feeling has been that there's no need for its use, not as long as there was constant communication between the Union and Student Government. Because the Student Government board of commis­sioners gives us our money, we are responsible to them." 
According to Ling, communica­
tion between the two organizations 
has decreased. "The Student 
Union director was making· the 
decisions a board was supposed to 
be making," he explained. "This 
was holding loosely to the consti­
tution in the past, but, of course, 
it's very vague." 
Ling stressed the board ''should 
not meet to discuss every little 
policy issue, just define major 
policy such as concert ticket blocks 
for dorms, possible hiring and firing 
of upper Student Union officials, 
and purchasing, rather than rent­
ing, refrigerators used on campus 
as a money-making project for the 
Union." 
In addition, Ling saw an advan­
tage to the board in producing 
group decisions. ''A group can 
easily take in all the facts, give a 
wide range of opinions and vote on 
it. If it doesn't decide, at least it can make recommendations," he added. 
The first goal of the board is ''to look at the constitution and say, 'What exactly are we supposed to be doing?" Ling stated. "We will work to come up with a proposal of what the board of directors should be responsible for. After it is discussed and approved, the Stu­dent Government Board of Com­missioners will form a constitu­tional convention to vote it into the Student Government constitution." 
Ling stated the role of the board of directors should be "more explicit." "It should be responsi­ble for giving the Student Union direction and re-evaluation. It will make it easier on future adminis­trations concerning policy deci­sions." he added. 
According to Ricci, "Nobody knows the exact relation of the board to the Student Union. Up to now, we've been executing what's been in the constitution. It never says, 'Meet.' It doesn't require meetings." 
Leo Garonski, Student Union 
recording secretary, stated the 
board "has never really been 
implemented before, but some 
people feel it's appropriate now. 
Its purpose is never clearly defined 
in the constitution. The language 
is extremely ambiguous." 
Ricci does not view the board as 
a means of decentralization but as 
''tatiq the brunt of decision­
mating higher." I'd see the board 
pointing direction, but others 
would see them playing a more 
active role. That's the point we're 
at now," he explained. 
''The gist is how much power the 
board should have," Garonski 
noted. "That's the conflict. Peoplt 
want the board to review the 
decisions made by the director. 
Some see it more as a decision­
making body rather than setting 
general policies," he added. 
According to Ricci, "We're 
starting from scratch. Even at the 
first meeting we had to begin with 
the preliminaries of how to record 
th,. minutes and vote." 
''Something should be organized, 
he concluded, "In the future, we 
hope to set up some guidelines 
about policy that are not presently 
written down." 


2 the observer Monday, December 6, 1976 
---News Briefs -­
t:::=::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::== International 
·Gaullist party dissolved 
PARIS -The Gaullist party dissolved itself yesterday at a political rally it called the biggest in French history and reorganized into a national movement. The new leader said it was aimed at blocking "the reall threat" of a left-wing rise to power. Members of the old Gaullist Union of Democrats for the Republic (UDR) botcd itself out of existence by a 13,184 to 123 margin and proclaimed the birth of the Rassemblement Pour Ia Rcpublique (Rally for the Republic) with former Premier Jacques Chirac as president. 
LDP gains early lead 
TOKYO -Japan's ruling Liberal Democratic Party (LDP), torn by dissension over the Lockheed scandal and facing its stiffest election challenge in decades, gained an early lead yesterday as votes were tallied in traditionally conservative rural areas. Prime Minister Takco Mikl of the LOP easily won his seat in Japan's parliament. Former Prime Minister Kakuei Tanaka, a key defendant in the Lockheed Aircraft Corp. payoff scandal, also won re-election running as an indepen­dent. 
--On Campus Today----.. 
9:30am­4:30pm 

benefit, annual sale of unicef cards, calenders and gifts, sponsored by ladies of notre dame, lib. lounge 
Controversial baby doctor to talk about difficulties of child-raising 
Dr. Benjamin Spock will speak on raising children in a difficult times in Washington Hall at 7:30 tonight. 
Author of Baby and Child Care, Spock was once called the "father of a whole generation'' because of hi" book's effect on child rearing. A pediatrician and psychiatrist he has also been the pediatric colum­nist for Redbook magazine 
Spock made headlines in 1968 when he was charged with conspir­ing to counsel young men to evade the draft. Since then he has also become a critic of war, obscenity, welfare systems, and prejudice. 
Art lecture tonight 
Robert Barnes, professor of art at Indiana University, Blooming­ton, will present a slide lecture at 8 tonight in the Notre Dame Art Gallery. 
The talk is open to the public and is part of a one-day visit to the campus, most of which will be spent in discussions with art ma­jors. Identified with the Chicago School of the earl • 960's, Barnes will exhibit seve;al of his works which start as abstract and become figures in spacial interiors. 
ERRATUM 
In the Friday, Dec. 3, Observe• story on "Bump City," a quote was incorrectly attributed to events organizer Mike Kammerdiener. 
Kammerdiener actually did not make the quote and was not contacted by the Observer on the story. The story was prepared by Student Union Events Commis­sioner Kevin Sadler. 
*The Observer 
Night Editor: Paul Schappler Asst. Night Editor: Rosemary Mills layout Staff: Paula Carroll, Dan Meuleman Editorial Layout: Mike Richter Features layout: Chip Spina, 
Sports layout: Fred Herbst, Typists: Karen Chiames, Rusty Espinosa, Gwen Coleman 
Night Controller: Don McRoos Day Editor: Maureen O'Brien Copy Reader: Katie Kerwin 
~Ad Layout: Tom Walruth Photographer: Janet O'Carney 
T hP Obo;<>rvpr " pubI"h"d Mond<1y through F ndoy dnd WP!'k lv dunng thP ~ummPr ~P'>~Ion, PX<Ppt dunng thP Pxam and vacation pPno<h T hP OthPrwr ~> publ1~hPd by ~tudPnh of tlw Un1wrs1t\ of NotrP Dame and St Mary·~ Colleg<> Subscnpt1on~ mav l:lf' purrh<I~Pd for $20 pPr yedr ($10 pt•r sPmester) from The Qb,Pr­ver, Box Q, Notr<> DamP, lnd1ana 46556 Second clas~ postagP pa1d, Notre Dame, lnd1ana 46556 
Th<> Observer IS a member ot the Associated Pre~s All reproduction nghh arP r<>~Prvt>d 
He feels ''the problems of poor people, black people, and. people who want peace ... are all part of the same problem." 
Spock; whose appearance at Notre Dame is sponsored by the Student Union Academic Commis­sion, was born in 1903, is a graduate of Yale (1925) and Co­lumbia (1929) and has published such works as Baby and Child Care, A 'Baby's First Year, Fe­eding Your Baby and Child, Dr. Spock talks with Mothers, Pro­blems of Parents and Decent and Indecent on morality and obscen­

ity. 
Dr. Benjamin Spock 

Special Holy Day Mass IMMACULATE CONCEPTION 
5:00 p.m. Wed, December 8th Sacred Heart Church 
Celebrant: Rev. William -Toohey, C-S-C· 
There will also be a mass in Sacred Heart Church at 11 :30 a.m. on Wednesday. Check hall bulletin boards for times of Masses in the dorms. 
There's nothing wrong with a little materialism. 
We'll admit it. One of the selling features of Army ROTC is just plain cold cash ... nearly $2000 during your junior and senior years of college. There's also the opportunity for full-tuition scholarships. And a $10,000 a year salary as an Army officer when you graduate. 
But we've got other good things to offer you, too. College courses which challenge you both mentally and physically. Management training and experi­ence you'll find valuable in civilian as well as military jobs. And instant leadership responsibil­ity in your first job after college. 
Ifany of this interests you,. check out Army ROTC. And even if you enroll just for the money, you'll graduate with something worth a lot more ... gold bars of an Army officer. 
ARMY ROTC. LEARN WHAT IT TAKES TO LEAD. 
For more information, contact: 
Captain John J. MacNeill 283-7332 
' 
'· t 1' 
0 I. 
I •' 



by Jean Powley Staff Reporter 

In September, 1974. St. Mary's needed additional housing facilities and the college· s seniors wanted additional freedom and responsi­bility. so the north end of Augusta Hall was leased from the Sisters of the Holy Cross and it became an all-senior residence hall. 
Now. two and a half years later, although life in Augusta has be­come more of a small group experience than the originally con­ceived community experience, it has remained a hall where the residents solve their own problems while abiding by all college rules. Residents have their own keys to the dorm's front door and come and go as they please without any hall director or resident advisor super­vision. Visitors must use the phone outside to call their hostess in order to gain entrance to the building. much like and apartment complex. 
Fifty-five students live in Augus­ta at present, but since its opening. the number of residents has ranged from 50 to 62. Two of its current occupants are juniors who were permitted to live there because fewer seniors wished to move to Augusta than in the past. Life there has lost much of its glamor, according to Stevie Wernig, vice president of student affairs. New things are always popular at first, but later. interest in them wanes. she explained. 
There are several disadvantages to living in Augusta Hall. It is 
NEW!! 
''HAIR IT IS'' 
STYLING & HAIR CARE CENTER ~'· FOR A~ 
~· GUYS 'N GALS 9'~ 
~~ $2.00 off for complete style -~ 

~with this ad!! Expires After Christmas .•~~ 
•

W~'RE CLOSE TO CAMPUS!! 
''HAIR IT IS'' 
IS LOCATED AT: 
isolated and inconvenient and has 
not tunnel connection to the other 
buildings on campus, and if a 
resident loses her key it is difficult 
to have replaced. Wernig _added 
that, "Augusta has become a dorm 
of many cliques. Although other 
dorms have the same problem, it is 
much more apparent in a small 
situation like the one at Augusta." 
Although the hall's residents 
admit to some disadvantages, such 
as a limited hall budget and 
substandard kitchen and lounge 
facilities, they seem to feel that 
Augusta's good poi,pts far outweigh 
its bad points. 
According to Augusta's co-chair­men. Liz White and Happy Rey­nolds, who jointly cast the hall's one student assembly vote, it is the huge rooms, senior atmosphere, community spirit, privilege of go­verning themselves and quiet which are the dorm's main attrac­tions. 
Augusta Hall may in the not-too­distant future become a regular dormitorv with a hall director and RA 's, however. due to overcrowd­ing on campus. In fact, St. Mary's administration considered putting a part-time graduate student and a few RA · s in Augusta this year but decided against it. according to Wernig. "Anything is conceivable concerning Augusta. It is an old building. though. and would need to be fixed up quite a bit. Since it is owned by the convent, anv renova­tion would have to be approved by them." she said. In any event Augusta will always ren;ain th~ college's smallest ~esidence hall, she added. 
r---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Monday, December 6, 1976 
the observer 
3 
Driver injured 

Shuttlebus collides with truck 
by Paul Hesse Staff Reporter 
A shuttlebus to St. Mary's carrying about 40 Notre Dame and SMC students, collided with a truck in the northbound lane of U.S. 31 on Friday afternoon's 3:30 shuttle run. The driver of the bus, Will A. Surratt, 27 of South Bend was the only person injured in the mishap. 
Surratt was taken to St. Joseph's Hospital and treated for minor injuries, which included a cut forehead and a badly bruised knee. 
"I was sort of towards the rear of the bus, when I heard the driver hit his horn," reported Charlie Weis, a rider on the bus. "I looked up as he slammed on the brakes, and saw this truck coming into the front of the bus. Then glass went flying all over the place, and everyone was sort of panicky. I was worried about the people in the front." he 
said,  "and I  was  afraid  the  bus  
driver  might  be  in  pretty  bad  
shape."  

Others who had been on the bus 
voiced similar views. Pam Iammar­ino. a St. Mary's freshman and a regular on the 3:30 shuttle, was on her way back from a class at Notre Dame. "I kind of got thrown around," she explained, "but I really wasn't too worried about mys~lf." Instead, her first thoughts were also of Surratt. "I had visions of him being crushed or something." she said. "I was really surprised -and really happy ­when I saw that he was all right." 
The damage to the bus was extensive. The front windshield shattered ·almost completely on impact and the instrument panel ended up in the street. St. Mary's senior Mary McMahon recalled, '·All I kept thinking was what would have happened had we been a foot or two farther out into the street. I guess we were really lucky." 
. The driver of the truck was Jerry Glisson, 23. of South Haven, Michigan. He was headed north on Route 31 and. according to wit­nesses.failed to observe· the traffic signal at the intersection of U.S. 31 and St. Mary's gate road. The bus was travelling west and had just entered the intersection when the accident occured. Glisson was uninjured and his truck was virtual­ly undamaged. However, he was cited for negligent driving. 

Traffic on-U.S. 31 was slowed for over an hour. Weis and another bus-rider channelled the north­bound traffic into the left-hand southbound lane. "Then we just directed traffic for a good half hour or so," Weis said, "until the police 
O'Laughlin Auditorium 
got there." 
Weis, Iammarino and McMahon were all somewhat critical of the police response to the accident. "I was surprised how long it took the police and ambulance to arrive." said McMahon. "Thev were kind of slow." Weis was -a bit more outspoken. "You can blame the weather conditions all vou want." he concluded. "but if am·one had been seriouslv hurt. thcv would have been in trouble." ­
All seats $2.50 ($2 Std-Fac-Staff) 


CHRISTMAS 
WILL BE HERE SOONER THAN YOU THINK···· SO DO YOUR CHRISTMAS SHOPPING AT THE 
CHRISTMAS BAZAAR 
Dec. 7,8,& 9 in LeMans Lobby 
by C ial Commi 
U·S· 31 NORTH (ROSELAND) 
Leanord imoy
ONE BLOCK NORTH OF RANDALLS INN 
(Mr. Spock) of ''STAR TREK''
rking in rear. Call for appt. 272-5345 
Tues..Dec. 7, 7:30pm
Hours-Mon. & Sat. 9-5 
STEPAN CENTER 
Tues. thru Fri. 9-9 
sci-fi classic ''The Day The Earth Stood Still' 
WE CARE ABOUT YOUR HAIR! 

,_.*The Observer anindependentstudentnewspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's 
The Observer is published by students of the University of NotrP Dame and St. Mary's College. It does not necessarily rt>flt>ct thP policies of either institution The news is reported as accuratt>ly and as objectively as possible. Editorials rPprPsPnt thP opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board Comnwntanes, opinions and letters are the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and letters are encouraged to promote the free t>xprPssion of varying opinions on campus. 
Business Manager Tom Fronczak Advertising Manager Mike Miller Photo Editor Tony Chifari Production Manager Martha L Fanning 
Box Q, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556.., Phones: (219) 283-8661 [NO] (219) 284-5365 [SMC] 
EDITORIAL BOARD Thomas O'Neil Editor-in-Chief Dan Sanchez Managing Editor Chris Smith Asst. Managing Ed. 
Gregg Bangs Executive Editor Val Zurblis Executive Editor Pat Hanifin Editorial Editor Bob Mader Exec. News Editor 
Maureen Flynn Campus Editor Marti Hogan St. Mary's Editor Don Reimer Copy Editor Tim O'Reiley Features Editor Fred Herbst Sports Editor 

Tuesday, October 26, 197ft 
opinion 

Sarcasm and Hyperbole 
DOONESBURY 
LACEY, THeRE'S A Tei.EVISION mLOIAI HEJ?e 10 sa ya; A801/TAN !NTCR­
V/eM/. "-.. 
by Garry Trudeau 
£¥CK, NOW, I TOL() 8UT, 
YOU J.¥JW I FEEL ABOUT tACEY! 
7JilStSIUYEJ£C/JiWC H&'s FI!JJM 
POP STAI?S! I REFUSE PUBliC 
70 5UFFE!R. 7HE INOIGNI7Y OF•• 
" 
Last year I authored :: moder­ately successful column that took a humorous view of life here at Notre Dame. Recently some people have asked why the column has dis­appeared from these pages. I can only presume these inquirers either enjoyed my column or are afflicted with some form of masochism. I have refrained from offering an explanation in print only because I thought it was so obvious. But perhaps an explanation is in order. 
I believe The Observer should concern itself with the serious issues of the day like the food co-op or the bus shuttle and allow a minimal amount of space to frivo­lous endeavors like my columns. And I feel the space allotted for humor in The Observer is being most adequately handled by the pen of "Chip Spina." I must admit I was not one of those who readily appreciated the force of "Spina's" satire, but now I'm one of his biggest fans. And I think you will be too, after I let you in on the joke behind "Chip Spina's" column. 
First of all. there is no real life person called "Chip Spina." Rather. it is a clever pseudonym for an ingenious first-year graduate student named Rufus Willington. Willington does graduate work in philosophy here at the university after previously pursuing his un­dergraduate studies at North­western. In fact. Willington ("Spina") worked as a student manager at Northwestern and is a good friend of football coach Johnny Pont. So now you under­stand that everyone at Northwester realizes when they read a column by "Chip Spina" it's really Rufus Willington pulling their leg again. Why else would The Observer print such classless insults unless they were meant in a spirit of jest? 
But that's just a trivial insight. Let's get to the real essence of "Spina's" humor. 
At the beginning of the year, Willington ("Spina") set. out to satirize. in the sports section, the bench-jock attitude so prominent at Notre Dame. You know who Willington means: the guys who act as if they scored the TD, they intercepted the pass; who act as if they personally received an invita­tion to the Orange Bowl. And how brilliantly "Spina" cultivated this fertile ground for parody. 

For example consider Willing­ton's ("Spina's") remarks after Notre Dame's openning loss to Pittsburgh. 
"At another school. a game such as Saturday's could be shrugged off. But at Notre Dame, football, winning football, seems to be the center around which all else re­volves. It stopped revolving Satur­day. ND no longer has winning football." 
I mean, how funny can you get. What better way to satirize the over-zealous portion of our student body than to put into print what many of them were no doubt thinking. 
Two weeks later the Notre Dame Football team tried to soothe it~ bruised ego by running up the score on an undermanned North­western squad. Willington anger­ily watched as the students from Notre Dame rubbed it in on the despondent Northwestern fans. "How can I capture this brutality in print," Willington thought. He hit upon the idea of insulting the Northwestern team with an as­sortment of "cheap shots" in his column to represent the fanaticism of the Notre Dame fans at the game. He was gratified when The Observer received many letters protesting his continued insults proving to Willington that not all Notre Dame students condoned such classless activities. 
But now a problem arose. Perhaps Willington had been too blatant in his critical satire. People were beginning to suspect that "Chip Spina" was not who he claimed to be. For a time, many on The Observer staff thought Will­ington had blown his cover. 
john zygmunt 
Willington. however. rebounded magnificiently. He had "Chip Spina" send a letter to The Observer defending his columns! The fictitious "Spina" not only refused to acknowledge any error but accused his detractors of having a poor grasp of the English language. The following is an excerpt from "Spina's" hilarious reply to his critics. 
"Now just because certain illiter· ate clements of the student body are unable to recognize sarcasm and hyperbole (know what they are?) when they read doesn't mean that I should cease using these techniques.'' 
After reading that passager I angerily went up to The Observer office to confront "Chip Spina." As chance would have it, I ran into Rufus Willington, who. after lead· ing me on a bit admitted "Chip's" columns were all meant as satire. Willington explained he would stop writing the column "till things cool down" but assured me "Chip Spina" would reappear. 
And indeed he has and as funny as ever. All year "Spina" has wailed on about The Observer's sport section and their promise to tell it like it is. Willington, of course. realizes just the exact opposite is true. 
Willington portrayed this-inde· cisivcness in The Observer Sports Department by having "Chip Spina" write about Notre Dame's controversial win over Alabama without having Spina give an opinion about the game! Instead, Willington. using his background in philosophy, modeled his column after Gralieo's "Diaologue Con­cering 
the New Science," so two stand-ins represented the two sides of the question freeing "Spina" from any responsibility about what "the skeptic" and the "rah-rah" said. Brilliant. 
As the football season draws to a close. I would like to thank Willing­ton for teaching me the true meaning of satire and parody. 
seriously, folks 
The Georgetown Watcliers 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii art b u c h waI d 
WASHINGTON -You have probably all been following Jimmy Carter's transition efforts with interest. One of the headlines that keeps cropping up is "Georgetown Awaits Carter People." 
There is a myth in Washington that "Georgetown" controls the country and what is said at George­town parties affects the lives of every man, woman and child in the United States. 
The first place the Carter transi­tion people go when they arrive in Washington is Georgetown. They stand around holding a glass of white wine in their hands hoping to find out what is happening in the nation's capital. The truth of the matter is that Georgetown over the years has lost its influence 'and most of the power brokers in this town have moved up to W esl.ey Heights and Cleveland Park. 
The reason for this is quite simple. The houses in Georgetown are all bunched together, and the walls are so thin that whatever is said in one house can be heard in another. There are no secrets in Georgetown but the press people -­always the last ones to get the word --still keep covering Georgetown as they did in the Sixties, when the 
Kennedy  folk  used  to  hang  out  
their  laundry  on  each  other's  
clotheslines.  

It's true that there are some opinion makers who still live in Georgetown. Kay Graham, pub­lisher of The Washington Post, has her home there. Joe Kraft still lives in Georgetown as does Rowland Evans, but his partner, Robert Novak, lives in Maryland. Jack Anderson is in Bethesda and Scotty Reston lives in Kalorama. Ben Bradlee, editor of The Wash­ington Post, moved out of George­town long ago, and Woodward and Bernstein live next to "Deep Throat," wherever that is. 
So what you get in Georgetown are really leftovers from the "Camelot" years. 
I was at ..a cocktail party in Georgetown last week and the conversation went something like this. 
"I hear there is talk at the agency that the Cuban exiles might land at the Bay of Pigs." 
"Bobby Baker is in real trouble and may be indicted bv the Grand Jury." : · 
"Billie Sol Estes is going broke in Texas." 
"Arthur Schlesinger is writing a book exposing John Foster Dulles." 
"The White House is thinking of sending Vice President Johnson to Berlin." 
"The CIA is tapping Dean Rusk's telephone." "Krushchev is fighting with the Politburo and may be out any day.'' 
"Robert McNamara is going to Vietman to find out what the story is over there." 
"Jackie Kennedy is thinking of redoing the White House." 
The Carter people kept writing everything down in large black looseleaf notebooks which eventu­ally would be turned over to the President-elect. 
I tried to point out to one of them that if they wanted fresher news on Washington they should go to a cocktail party in Cleveland Park. 
But the poor fellow said he didn't know where Cleveland Park was. 
Besides, he said, Carter was very interested in what they were saying about him in Georgetown. 
The only place in Georgetown where you can still get up-to-date news about what is going on is Doc Dalinsky's Drugstore on 0 Street. The reason for this is that while many of the power brokers have moved out of Georgetown, they still come to Dalinsky for their prescrip­tions. I suggested to one of Carter's transition men that if he really wanted the straight poop on Washington he should go to Dalinsky's coffee klatch on Sunday morning. 
But the Carter man shook his head. "I was told to stay with the cocktail circuit in Georgetown. They say that's where it's all happening." 
A man came by at that moment and said, "Did you hear Lynda Bird Johnson is getting married?" 
The Carter man wrote it down in his big black book. 


P. 0. Box Q 
whomever might be concerned that a real Christmas tree with a few 

Christmas approacheth as do lights would lend a welcome cheer­finals and the halls will soon be iness to the campus if placed in the festively decorated with artificial fountain basin in Crossroads Park? shrubbery and 'Jieary-eyed stu­Merry Christmas. dents. Might I suggest to Student Government, Student Affairs or Name withheld by request Dear Editor: 
Monday, December 6, 1976 the observer 5 
"Well. here's Christmas--at our throats again!'· This cry of the cynic manifests an attitude that is shared by many who are fed up with the mad commercialism of this season. Advent seems to be a question of just so many shopping days until Christ­mas, a time for office parties, gift selecting and card sending. It is hard to penetrate through the tinsel and fat Santas, the reindeer and candv canes. the mistletoe and "chestnuts roasting on the open fire," to discover the real meaning of it all. 
Almost everyone has a different rcac­iion. Ask the clerk in the store what this season means to her and she'll tell you. .. An avalanche of wild shoppers." For the cop on the corner it means a nightmare of snarled traffic; for the mailman it means an aching back; and for Notre Dame students. the pressure of papers and exams. 
There docs seem to be some general agreement. however. that Advent is a time of preparation. But too often this has meant a rather silly pretending that we arc awaiting the birth of Jesus. as though he hasn't ah-ead\· come. T. S. Eliot mav be right: "Hu~wnkind cannot bear ,-;uu:h rcalitv." But if we lose the sense of rcalitv. we a'rc ripe for the easy m\'thology of liturgical·ycar gamesmanship. Ycar after year people act as though Christ is about to come as a bab\' (some churches even have the tasteless J~racticc of sending a plater 
Letter from Mexico 
Christmas and Beyond 
Jesus-doll down a wire. strung from the choir-loft. to land in the crib precisely at midnight on Christmas eve). Frequently. children arc taken to Christmas mangers and told to pray to the infant Jesus. Sentimentalists may get terribly upset, and yell "Scrougc!" but still the plain truth reveals that there is no infant Jesus. There was. But he grew up. died. rose on the third day; and he remains with us now in his gloriticd presence. 
It has not been helpful to youngsters (and those not so young) to have them play games with the trut~. The church. which has not always had perfect grades for being in touch with realitv. shows her wisdom bv not allowing even o.nc ofticial prayer that i:-; addressed to the infant Jesus. Prayer is meant to be realistic; it is for the here and now. as things are !">ere and now. None of this should be interpreted to mean that the Christmas crib is out of place. Quite the contrar~·! But the crib scene calls for some authentic understanding. It necessitates a realization that there is a difference between rctlccting on the past and the rcalit~· of the present moment. The 
Dedication of a new Basilica 
Most foreign studies programs otfer continual travel. a new culture, and a different language to students who venture a year abroad. The Mexico program, however, added another touch to these benefits this year. It offered students a spot in its history. 
On October 12. as more than 600,000 people crowded around the new basilica to see its dedication to the Virgin of Guadalupe. two Notre Dame sophomores, Dave Leibowitz and Brian Hogan, played a vital role in the event. . 
"Basically," said Hogan. "our job was to welcome representatives and dignitaries from 33 different countries, and on the day of the dedication itself form a protective wall around the bishops and cardinals so that they could leave freely after celebrat­ing mass... The three day function climaxed with 500 cardinals, bishops. and priests concelebrating a mass in the new basilica. Among them was John Cardinal Krol from Philadelohia. 
According to Leibowitz, besides ·senUlu~;; invitations to reliigious figures, officials also sent 11,000 invitations to dignitaries throughout the world, even though the church itself only holds 10.000 people. 
Leibowitz was also confronted with the huge crowd. and on one particular occasion slipped an invitation to a man who had walked for a month in order to see the dedication. 
This demonstration offaith on the part of the Mexican people evolves from their strong religious beliefs concerning mira­cles. One such miracle involves the Virgin of Guadelupe. 
On December 10, 11. and 12 in 1531, the Virgin of Guadalupe appeared to the Indian Juan Diego on the hill Tepeyacac, and a series of churches were established at the bottom of the hill until 1695 when the current standing basilica was completed. 
Since this basilica had slowly sunk into the ground at an awkward angle and was dangerous to visitors, engineers started construction on a new basilica about a year and a half ago. By the time of its dedication. the modern basilica located at the side of the old one was nearly completed. ' 
As workers frantically tried to prepare the church for the dedication, Hogan and Leibowitz also began preparing for the event. Selected from a group of more than 300 volunteers, they met with 48 other collegians almost two months beforehand under the direction of Mayu Gutierrez in order to acquaint themselves with the basilica and its history. "During one meeting in particular we spent three hours touring the old basilica so that we could inform the visitors," Leibowitz noted. 
According to Hogan, each person had a different assignment. ''During the first night I was stationed at the Fiesta Palace, a hotel on Reforma, to welcome the visitors and representatives. Then, on the follow­
ing  day,  both  Dave  and  I  met  the  
dignitaries  when  they  arrived  at  the  
airport."  

At six o'clock on the morning of the twelfth, Hogan, Leibowitz, and the other collegians led the cardinals, bishops, and 
John Dilenschneider 
priests to a bus, and then rode to the basilica where they arrived at eight o'clock. 
On the way the students used a microphone to give a spontaneous speech to the representatives concerning this history of the basilica and the Virgin of Guadalupe. 
"When we got there officials were all over the place to keep order," Hogan explained. "Some ofthe people (represen­tatives) went to the old basilica to prepare for the procession, while others went directly to the new building.'' 
At 10 o'clock the doormen began to take invitations, and swarms of people gathered to see the procession from the old basilica. In the procession the dignitaries wore their national wardrobe and carried their country's falg. 
The purpose of the procession was to carry Juan Diego's white cloak on which the image of the Virgin Mary miraculously appeared 445 years ago from the old basilica to the new basilica where it was to be situated on the wall behind the altar in plain view. 
After the procession, mass started. Speakers had been placed outside the church to enable the people without invitations to hear the singing and the mass itself. 
"During the mass I was stationed on the balcony and tried to keep the people in their seats," said Leibowitz. "Sometimes though they got too anxious and started climbing over each other like animals." 
Meanwhile, after taking invitations, Hogan had seated himself near the altar in order to assist the religious figures during their exit. 
At the offertory 15 children brought up gifts of wine, corn, grapes, beans, and flowers to the altar. All these offerings were typical Mexican foods, and had a symbolic meaning to the people of Mexico. 
"They set up two large screens on both sides of the altar," added Hogan, "and sometime around two o'clock, after the offertory, the people were able to see a televised message from the Pope." The message's theme focused upon the idea that the Virgin of Guadalupe is special to the latin American people, and acts as their go-between in relation to God. The Pope also emphasized the undying faith of the Latin American people. 
Around 2:30, 100 priests pushed out into 
the crowds which waited outside to give 
communion to 500,000 people. The mass 
ended a half an hour later, and the 
religious group that had stood around the 
main altar filed out the side aisles 
protected by the group of students. At that 
time the people waiting outside were 
allowecl to enter the new basilica to look 
around and bring up offerings. 
Following the mass the dignitaries 
proceeded to a banquet held at ~he 
Hacienda de los Morales, an exclustve 
Mexican restaurant. "We also had to 
accompany the visitors during the concert 
held on the afternoon of the following day 
at the new basilica," said Hogan. "And 
then that completed our role in the event." 
Both Hogan and Leibowitz were im­
pressed by the event, and formulated some 
Fr. Bill Toohey 
Christmas manger would have us meditate 
on the past (without getting stuck in 
sentimentalism). but also. and most impor­
tantly. would have us see that the 
Christmas scene is meant to point us 
beyond itself. to what it promised. 
Thus the crib can give us the kcv to understanding what Christmas is all about. Christmas loses its significance if it doc~ not lead us to what it initiated. It is a bit like a senior from Farley who will go home this Christmas and receive an engagement ring. In later vears. she mav commemor­ate' the occasi~n she received that ring of promise; but its fulfillment. the wedding itself. will be much more important. ­
Christmas is like that for each of us: It marked the day the tina! phase of our redemption began. It initiated the last stage in the Father's strategy for rescuing us; it was the time mankind's hope and longing for salvation was brought to the 
high·st pitch of int··nsit,·. 
Even the first Christmas pointed bevond itsclt: "I bring you tidings of great joy; there has been born to ~-ou a Savior.·· The crih scene would move us beyond the 
sentimentalism of Christmas cuteness and 
"that warm feeling" that doesn't even 
ncrcssitatc faith. and would remind us of 
the great love that was behind it all. which 
reached a crescendo at Easter and touches 
ll'> c\·cn now. 
In a verY true sense. this Sl'ason would 

draw us f~om the Christmas tree to the 
Christmas cave. Reality dcpirt'>. not the 
roo,~-scene of dcpartmcnt·~tore windm1~ 
(Hallmark-card thcolog~·; a doll \\armed b1 
the breath of adoring animal~; Bin.L: Crosb1 
humming in the background). Christmas is 
God born poor. homclc.,.,. rold. reiL·ctcd. 
Chri . .,tmas remindo, uo, of NO\·\i. Thi., same God io, still with us. That'~ \\hat thr name they ga\T him lliL'ano, --"Em­manuel" --God with U'>. He 11ould. thi-. Chrio,tmas. have u., cxpnicnLT hi~ prt'· scnrL' and know hi'> pt'at·e. But he would also add hi~ tire: He would ~i\L' u~ a burning inrcnti1 c not to hoard hi., Spirit. For thio, samL· God io, -.till Ill a L'oi\T (hllt!IL'· k'>s. cold. rcierted. lonch ). joined. a' he told us he i~. to ht'P'IJn-. ·ami .,:~tLT~-\nd tht'\' arc to be 1<11tlld in Cakutta. in orphanage'>. in S<Htth \friL·a. Chik. Har­km. ao, well a~ L, "i'. Dillnn. l.1nn' and Campuo, ViL'\\. 
Chri~tma~ dra'" u~ 111 tilt· prt·~tnt nwntt•nt. God hnt· and Ill"' ,-..nit''> tn th. li1·c~ within u-.. ur!.!t·~ 11, 111 ,IJ<trt· "Fmntanul'l" 11ith oth~T~. \la1 \\L ht· thi-. kind of gift to t·adt othl'r thi-. < l1ri~tm.t-.. 
···························································~ 
: Lisa Moore Nicholas Durso : • 
•
• 

• A Not-so Delicate Balance
•
•

! Edward Albee's A Delicate Balance, as 
• 
performed by the ND-SMC Theatre. leaves, : one wondering at the department's moti: 

• 
vation for choosing this drama. To produce : an Edward Albee play with . college 

• 
students is ambitious--to produce it well with college students (and in the vault of O'Laughlin Auditorium) is next to im­possible. This second production of the season is marked by a number of flaws: problems which are ten percent the locale, thirty percent the cast, thirty percent the director and thirty percent Edward Albee. 


Manv times audiences and actors have 
• 
remarked alike during intermissions and : rehearsals that the lack of a useable theater : at this university is more than an injustice 

• 
to both producers and audiences: it should : be an embarrassment. The low quality of 

• 
facilities i.nherently cramps any produc­: tion. : Portraying a middle-aged character in 


any rer.listic play is inevitably a difficult task for a seasoned college-age actor and an insurmountable one for an inexperi­enced performer. The sic-character cast of A Delicate Balance exhibits a frustrating lack of depth as a result, brightened only the performance of two veterans: Matt McKenzie as Tobias and Shevawn O'Connor as his alcoholic sister-in-law, Claire. McKenzie captures the .character of Tobias, a middle-aged passive husband "plagued" by three witches in the caul­dron of his own home. It is a difficult role, but McKenzie's experience and talent keep him floating and allow this performance to achieve believability. Shevawn O'Connor is a born comedienne, a one-woman show 
• 
and a delight. She exhibits total express­ion, acting with both her voice and her body in a rare display of dramatir: communication. Her vigor_ sends tht: audience laughing with a walk, a simple gesture and an accordian concert handled naturally and with a perfect timing and sensitivity. 

Agnes, the imperious head of the household, is likewise an ambiguous role and the directorial interpretation in this case remains questionable. Agnes' "madness" opens and closes the play, but she is portrayed by high-pitched Anne Christine Massulo as madness that is anger rather than lunacy. This matriarch, whose xonstant preoccupation it is to 

• 
maintain the family's delicate balance in a social malaise, needs to be played subtly and carefully. She, like the play she inhabits, exists in a state of delicate balance between sanity and frenzy and serves as the chorus of the play. This performance has the subtlety of a train wreck and never achieves a delicacy of any kind. 


Likewise, Ann Kenny, who plays an but she never fully portrays that deep internal tension which haunts the four-time divorcee. We see her only as a victim and not as the torturer she sometimes is and only as a child and never as a woman. 
This lack of subtlety is characteristic of the entire production. Albee's language is: rich with suggestion and insinuation. but: the directorial concept expresses none of • this gentleness. The players act as if they: are saying something. but we are never• quite sure what is being said. The Terror: that Edna and Harry flee from is never• 
defined;  we  never  hear  the  details  of:  
Teddy's  death;  the  script  embodies  a•  
hatin.ess  and  an  ambiguity  that  the:  

production fails to illuminate. Unless we: arc to place the entire blame on Albee, it ise clear that the flaw lies in the production. : The inexpressible Terror must be under-• stood indirectly and serve as a mirror to: articulate the fears ofthe entire household. • This production fails to convince us that: anvthing lies either inside or outside the• world that the characters inhabit. : 
Lou St. Ville as Edna is the most• convincing as a middle-aged character. : She has some fine moments in her: rambling speeches. Gary Aumiller.• however, is flimsy and unconvincing as the: husband Harry and never lifts his head• juring the entire two and one-half hour: production. • Costuming creates still another problem.: 
It is impossible to believe that Harry and• Edna, who wear leisure suits and house-: dresses and probably go bowling one Wednesday nights, are best frieds and! belong to the same club as Tobias and: Agnes, who wear velvet pants. smoking• jacket and flowing caftans. Moreover.: wigs are useful to create a new charactcre but they should look like hair. and not like: wigs. • 
Dramatic production demands consist-: ency in all aspects. The setting of this! production is an expressionistk design ofe cold black shapes scattered around an: elevated black platform. A Delicate• Balance is a realistic play and anything but: a realistic setting opposes a fundamental• aspect of the script. : 
Some fine moments are created in this• production--some fine moments are: destroyed--by the intrusion of someone·s• idea of complementary music. Music: should also be subtle and unobtrusive. not: sharp and distracting and certainly it• should not give us a sense of English: drawing-room comedy. • 
A Delicate Balance shows a valiant effort! in a production lacking in direction. It is an• interesting evening. however, for it tests: one's appreciation of the dramatic product-• ion and provokes considerations about both: a successful American playwright and the: 
awkward Julia has a sense of the character potentials of college theatre.
•..........•...................................•...........~ • 
opint«ns from their experiences. ''I achieved a better understanding of the psychology of power," Hogan said. "Every time a person saw my badge, he knew that it meant authority.'' 
Leibowitz, however, was more im­pressed by the people. 
Both Leibowitz and Hogan agree that the event was one of "historical importance," and they're not liable to forget it ... especially when they have a constant reminder hanging in their closets. Each got to keep the blue suit and striped tie they were given to wear at the dedication. 

---~--------------. 
the observer Monday, December 6, 1976 
~--~~~~~~~~~--­
Police bust fencing operation 
[continued from page 1] 
~ustody between 8 p.m. and 2 a.m. 
Police lured the alleged criminals to the "party" by telling them that :ountcrfeit money would be 'landed out to be spent over the ~-hristmas holidays. 
The next. and biggest phase of he raid took place at the Fraternal )rder of Police Lodge on State {oad 23. All of the more than 250 mliccmen involved in the raid met here for a briefing. 
At about 5:4S a.m., teams of S or 

• police started their raid. sweep­n~ anoss St. Joseph County. In .Ill. more than 48 adults and five ll\ cnilcs were taken into custody 
..... the raid proceeded throughout Frida~· morning. 
Federal and local police involved 

I 
State Police Superintendent ~obcrt DeBard described Fridav's 
ND professors! win fellowships 
~ by Mike Humpal l Staff Reporter 
I• The National Endowment for the Humanities has awarded two Notre Dame professor~ fellowships for ndcpcndent study and research. 
t Professor Ralph Mcinerny of the 
I· 
~ kpartmcnt of Philosophy and t'rofcssor Eugene Ulrich of the Department of Theology were mwng 179 of the applicants chosen 
o be fellows. There were I.719 
ndividuals who applied for the 'cllowships. 
Professor Mcinerny was granted 1is fellowship in order to complete 1 book he is writing on Boethius. -fe will now travel to Rome. where 1c will continue his research in the /atican Library. Professor v1clncrny was awarded a Fulbright :cllowship in 19S9, during which ime he traveled to Belgium and •-rotc his first book. Since then he 1as also been to Rome on sab­·atical. 
Professor Ulrich was granted a 

•llowship to complete research on 1e Biblical scrolls which comprise 1c Book of Samuel. He will be in harge of editing the scrolls with 'r. Frank Cross of Harvard. rofcssor Ulrich has been working n the scrolls since he wrote his isscrtation and is now trying to 1mplcte a critical edition of them. 
Professor Ulrich will work here ith occasional trips to Harvard. /hen tinished. he will travel to 
•rusalcm to compare the finished ·itical text with the actual scrolls. rofcssor Ulrich has previous!) .-cn to Germany on a Sheldon raveling Fellows.hip in 1972. and 
t • Israel on a Pfeiffer Fellowship. The National Endowment for the 
t umanities fellowships arc worth a aximum of$20.000 for a full year. ·he actual amount of the fr"llow­lip is determined by the rccip­nt's salary while he is doing his search. 
Dinner planned for Dec. grads 

Seniors graduating in December ho would like to attend the dinner ~ing held this Thursday, Decem­·r 9, 1976 should contact Fr. 1bert Griffin, The University 1aplain, as soon as possible. n approximation of the number' 
guests that will attend the ·lcbration is rrecdcd in order to wlize plans for the event. 
The dinner is scheduled to take ace in the University Club. A 1cial hour will begin at 6:30p.m., llowed by the dinner at 7:30p.m. 
mass is also planned for the actuates, to be held in the eenan-Standford Chapel prior to e social hour, at 5:10p.m. Students can contact Fr. Griffin 
room 101 Keenan, anytime after 30 a.m. 

St. Mary's Admissions Office is 10nsoring an open house Tues­
•Y· Dec. 14, from 2-4:30 p.,m. All 1stesses and tour guides are 
Notre Dame-Saint Mary's Theatre 
TRYOUTS FOR 
THEY 

By Stanislaw Witkiewicz Dec. 6 & 7 at 7:30pm. (callbacks Dec. 8) O'LAUGHLIN AUDITORIUM 
OPEN TO ALL ND-SMC STUDENTS 
Grit plans community tree 
Plans are underway for a University Christmas Tree. Fr. Robert Griffin, the University chaplain, initiated the project yesterday. "In the wake of the 
' criticism of the OSHA bans last week, it occurred to me that we do not have an official tree," commented Fr. Griffin. 

The University Chaplain cited several cities which include a Christmas tree in their festivities as precedents for one at Notre Dame. "It would be a tree that everyone could contribute to and take care of," he noted. 
So far the individuals consulted by Fr. Griffin have been favorable to the plan. A collection was taken at Fr. Griffin's S:OO p.m. Sunday mass and approximately $100 was donated toward the community tree and decorations. · 
A possible site for the tree is Crossroads Park. The University Chaplain hopes to have the tree set up by Thursday, December 9, 1976. At II :00 p.m. that night the tree would be blessed by the highest available cleric, officially lit-up, and then carols sung. Fr. Griffin intends to invite one of the campus choral groups to perform at the ceremony. The event would be followed by hot choco­late and donuts at Darby's Place. 

raid as "the largest operation the state police have ever participated in." Off-duty policemen from every state police post north of U.S. Highway 40 participated. 
In all, more than 2SO officers took part in the raid. This number included about ISO South Bend policemen and more than 100 from state and county forces. An estimated SO FBI agents also participated in the arrests. 
South Bend Police Chief Michael Borkowski commented that South Bend Police will be watching the number of burglaries and arrests that take place in the near future, to see how effective a deterrent last week's arrests have been. 
Borkowski also threatened to use operations of this type in the future, because of the apparent success with which stolen goods are recovered. With the police competing with other fencing operations, burglars are less sure of being able to get rid of stolen property. This in turn. according to police officials, should cut down the number of burglaries. · 
'rnicliaE!L!s 
hair stl.ILinQ
etc. 

FOR APPT.CALL: 272-7222 18381 EDISON RD. AT SO. BEND AVE. 


feed gasto 
yourcar, coins to the toll booths,and atsums to 
O'Hare parkingpeople? 
A lot of you fly west for vacation break. But many are in the strange habit of taking the toll road to O'Hare. Or roller skating, or something.We don't know. 
We're surprised that more beleaguered students don't take the easy way out: your handy local airport, right here in South Bend. Flying from South Bend isn't just quicker and easier. It's no more expensive. 
For example, one-way Coach air fare from South Bend to Los Angeles is only $4.00 more than the same ticket from Chicago. Now, unless you're stuffing a \'<)lkswagen or know a way to make tolls, gas and parking disappear, it's probably going to cost you at least four bucks to drive to O'Hare. It1l also cost you time and hassle. 
So take the easy way out of South Bend: United Airlines. For Friendship Service to 59 cities from South Bend, call your Travel Agent. Or call United at 232-4811. 
Partners in Travel with Western International Hotels. 
Flythe -hlendlyskies ofUnited
f.JiiJ uniTED AIRLines 
vited,. _ . •' '--------------------------------------------~-...., 
-------·------------­
Monday, Decem':!_er 6,_1_97_6____t'""'h..:...;::.e___;;;o_b;;_s---'-e_r_v_e::...c.r__--'-7 
Notre DamecagerswhipValparaiso 
by Ted Robinson Sports Writer 

That wasn't really a college basketball team in those brown and gold uniforms Saturday afternoon in the A.C.C. They might have been a high school team flown in for a special appearance. The only problem was that a more suitable opponent would have been the St. Louis Zips. 
Nevertheless. the team that wore Valparaiso on the front of their jerseys took one on the chin Saturday. Notre Dame hardly broke a sweat in a sleep-inducing 93-56 victory. 
"The first five or six minutes is what killed us. I thought it was awfully important to stay close early in the game and we didn't do that," said Ken Rochilitz. Valpo's head coach. Perhaps he meant the first five or six minutes of the warmups because his team was out of it from the opening jump. 
It was very hard to judge the Notre Dame performance as they were not forced to put forth an inspired effort. 
Rich Branning's game was not hard to judge. The 6-3 freshman guard. whose middle name is becoming "Blue Chip," had 18 
Cage Results 
Adriln 10, Cue Wulern 71. Amherst 70. Bowdoin 51. ApJala<~ian Slalt 72, Ltnelr RhYnt 
114. Arklnus 91, Southern Color•• 43. Arklnsas Stat• 69, Central Oklahom1 
St. st. Army 65, Upsala 51. Augusta 89, Sr. P1ut's 75. AUIUIIona [50] 61, Norllltrn 47. llabson 91, Conno<ticur Col. 56. Btntdlct 11. Fran<is Marion IS. hnllev. 84. Woruster TKh 71. Berry 108, U.S.A.·Startlnburt 19. Bluefield St. 97, Lynchburg [ Vo.J 89. lloston Col 75, Hanard 71. Boston St. 94, Rhode Island Co. 11. 
llowling GfHn 98, Findlay "· Brandeis 73. Wesleyan 63. Bridgeport 76, Central Conn. 72. llro~ 72, Davidson 67. 
rtaco 12;t1. Lawrtn<a 71. Johnson St. 65, New 9nglend 64. Juoiato 69, Lycoming 61. Kensas 74, Cent. Mi<souri 52. Kf!SIS St. 103, So. Methodist 15. Ky. WosleYOn 67. C•mpbollsville 62. Leb•non Valley Sf, W. Maryland SO. LIYingstone 61. llelmont Abbey 61. Louisiona TKh 11, Mercer 75. M•nkalo St. 83, Gustav AOIPhUS 69. Mari>n 90. Indiana Toch 73. Mari•lla 11, BethanY W. V1. 67. Marvland 51, Prlncoton 45. Mus. 80, New Hampshire 67. Medgar Evers 102, Federal Clly 11. Messiah 113, II rld9twtrer 72. Mi>mi. Ohio 113, <:ltyefand Sl. U. Michigan 71. Fordllllll rt. Mille,.ville 110. SoulhtiSiern 101. Milliun 78, Kint 68. Mii';kin 75. Franklin find. I 66. Minnesota 1~. Detroit 10. MississiPPI 61, Texas, Chris. u. Mo,...held St. 96, Mar<hall 10. Musklntum 55. Wellash 51. 
Nny 71. Penn 67. Nln54• 6\ Sl Peltr's 61. S<r~n .. 1 u~rn1 u. ShelbY State t2, A...ln11 n. So. Illinois 96, Mlssouri-KC 71. Steubenville 90, WIISh 81. Svr1cuse 76, L.ulsvillt 75. TlnlltsiH 69. No. caroll na-ChtrloHe 
67 (0.). Ttnn. Tllll,lt It, Cltarw1t1r 50. TtXIS Lutheran 51, Howerd Pavnt 49. Ttxas Tt<h 13, SDOUTH Carolina 75. 
Trinity 60, MIT 47. Tri·SHH !ln•.] ~. AIIIIINI SJ. TaHs tO, WIIIIIIIIS 76. Virginia 62. P'llhburlh 61. VI. MilitarY 71, 1!. Ctrollftl 67. Vil'llin'a St. 103, No. Cor. Central M. Virtlnil TKh 14, Ohio 51. 77. Voori!IH U, DtiiNrk Ttdl 67. Wish. & LH 96, &rnory & Ht11ry SS. Wut Cllllftr st. Ttlll,lt n. 
Wtst Virotnle 102, St. Jo•eph's (Ind.]
74. 
W.V1. Sl.tt 63, W.Va. TKh 51. While P'talns 73, St. Rose 67. Wl~lner IS, Wllhlntl•n Ct. 53. WiHtnlllrt• 45, Htldtlblrll. SJ, 
Notices 
MORRISSEY LOAN FUND $20-150. 1 day wait. 1 percent interest. Due in 30 days. LaFor­tune Basement. M-F11:15-12:15. 
Need typing? Professional Typing Service · Top Quality . Convenient Location 232-0898. 
Accurate, fast typing. Mrs. Donoho. 232-0746 Hours: 8 a.m.. 8 p.m. 
ANYONE FROM N.Y., N.J., CONN., OR MASS. INTERESTED IN TAKING AMTRAK FOR CHRISTMAS BREAK, PICK UP FORMS IN STUDENT ACTIVITIES OFFICE, LAFORTUNE BLDG. IMMEDIATELY. REDUCED GROUP RATES AVAILABLE. 
Typing. Call Carolyn 232-9061. 
MEDICAL SCHOOL in Mexico ac­cepting American students. Practice in the US, WHO listed, HEW approved, 4 year course, loans available, for December appoint. men! in your area, call (219) 867-4331. 
For Rent 
Roommates wanted tor ND apt. Starting Jan. 1. Call288-4113. 

points, five assists and four steals in only 20 minutes of action. The smoothness with which he directs the offense lends credence to his California buildup as a young Jerry West. 
Combine his totals with the nine points and four assists logged by Dice Martin and you have potent production from the point guard position. Incidentally, Martin's now made eight consecutive shots from the floor covering the last two games. 
With Dave Batton sitting out the game due to a 104-degree fever, Toby Knight and Bruce Flowers carried the slack underneath. Knight shot 7-11 from the floor, as he compiled 17 points. Knight seems to have mastered the role of the big man in the Irish full-court press that has been missing since the graduation of Peter Crotty. 
Flowers had his second consecu­tive strong game under the basket. With 14 points and 12 rebounds, he completely dominated any center Valparaiso could throw in the game. 
For the capacity crowd of 11,345, the game's most exciting moments came during the appearances of Notre Dame's now famous SWAT team, or as Sports Dlustrated terms them in their upcoming issued, a self-named hit squad. 
The identification of the student body with the walk-ons led to the final basket of the first half, a row-H bomb by Billy "Hawk-Eye" Sahm. It seems as if Digger Phelps may have found a new crowd­pleaser in the SWAT team, and the walk-ons certainly can't complain about the playing time. 

,W'3'Wi!~i!~'3'W~'3'"W\ 
~ THE LIBRARY ~ 
~ is having a ~ 
kHRISTMAS PART~ for information about the ~ IJll Notre Dame Catechumenate ~ TUESDAY NIGHT ~ Program 
tlti 9-12 
t·----------------"""1 
~ All Drinks Half-Price!!!! ~1 NOTICE 1 
~ 
~ 
~ 
tJj7 
t:~ 
~ 
~ 
~ ~ 
~ We will be giving
t away 100 albums & T-shirts! 
~ So. come and ~join in the Christmas Spirits! 
~ ~ ~ 
tt 
~ 
~~~~"fJ~~ll~t!~~~ 
CAMPUS MINISTRY WEST offices ground floor of Badin 

student operated from 8 p.m to midnight 
Early in the afternoon, before many of the late-arriving fans settled in their seats, the dunk made its real debut in the A.C.C. Knight showed the fans the nearest thing to Dr. J that college basket­ball can offer. A flying slam dunk with a 10-foot takeoff provided a glimpse of what the game has been missing for years. 
In those early minutes, the game was settled when Valpo missed close to a dozen shots of 10 feet or less. Their high-scoring guard. Nolan Petties. missed six of those. and in the process the Irish took an 18-6 lead. 
As Valparaiso connected on only 29 percent of their first-half shots. Notre Dame widened their halftime lead to 37-18. The second half set the stage for the women's basket­ball arne that was to follow. 
The two home games that Notre Dame played in the past week can serve only as a partial barometer of the true potential that this team possesses. If a team only plays as well as its opponent's potential. then this team has its best moments ahead of them. UCLA and Indiana in the span of four days could show some of those moments. 
Before the Irish take off for Los Angeles, they entertain the North· western Wildcats Tuesday even­ing. Northwestern brings with them their All-American candidate. guard Billy McKinney. 
For Digger Phelps. Saturda~ served one purpose. "This game was another step towards our goal of an NCAA bid... It served nu purpose f•Jr the Crusaders of Valparaiso Univcr~it1. 

Do you want to be 
A CATHOLIC? 
Please call 283-6536 or 283-382 
~ ALL THOSE WHO DROPPED OUT OF THE 
1

~I SENIOR TRIP AFTER PAYING THEIR I ~ DEPOSIT OR FULL PAYMENT MUST ~I SUBMIT A WRITTEN STATEMENT WHY I ~I THEY HAD TO DO so TO EITHER NOTRE I F DAME OR ST. MARY'S STUDENT ACTIVI­~I TIES OFFICE BY WED., DEC. 8 TO HAVE I
tst I I
THE RETURN OF THEIR MONEY CONSID­
~pg~~----------·

~ 

MEN'S HAIRSTYLING 
NEW CONCEPT In balntyllng for Mea I..OCA'lED on our lower lewel wltJI llli owo prfv~ eulniK'e wa,y. COMPLETE PRIVACY In our hullvldual styling uolts. SIP COFFEE by the fireplace In a relued atmosphere. FAST SERVICE for carefree cuts ud blow styles. .• WE ~ATURE RK products. 
MANICURES for men $4 BLOW STYLING 
$4.50 PRECISION HAIRCUTS $5 . 
PERMANENT WAVING bv NATURAL MAN /$25 
HAIRCUT AND BLOWSTYLING COMBINATION $8.50 
uttn's ( a~tlt 
54533 TERRACE LANE Tues., Wed., Sot. 8:30 -5:30, Thurs. & Fri. 8:30 -8:30 
PHONE 277 -1691 



Lost & found 
Tom, your glasses are safe. If you want to see thru them again, raise 
the reward  to $50.00.  I'm serious.  
No cops.  
Jumper cables  at  St.  Joe  Airport  

Monday morning; call 287-5655. 
Found: on senior trip in hotel, man's watch. Call 8068. 
To person who took Death and Dying notebook from Bookstore on Tuesday afternoon . Please return! Call 272-8581, or leave at Math Library (Rm. 200, Math building). 
Wanted 
Wanted: 1 package of student B-ball tix for the reaminder of the season. Call Mike at 288-0088. 
Wanted to buy: 1 good 35mm SLR camera. Call Mark 259-3446. 
Need one housemate tor spring semester. Own unfurnished room in seven room house. $50.00 monthly plus utilities. Call 287-2702. 
Need housemates 4 miles; good neighborhood; furnished, color TV, pool table. $60 includes utilities. 233-2706. 
Classified Ads 
Missed plane for Senior Trip. Need ride to San Diego on about 20th. Call Tim at 1715. nights. 
Riders needed to Ft. Lauderdale . Miami tor Christmas break. Must leave Friday, Dec. 17. Call Bob. 1419. 
Need 2 Indiana B-ball tickets. Call Jim at 8610. 
I need a student package of B-ball 

tix!!  Willing  to  pay.  Call  Mike  at  
288-0088.  
For Sale  

BANKRUPTCY SALE! Dual 1219 automatic turntable. Low miles ask· ing $120.00. Call Chet after 6:00 p.m. 287-4513. 
AUDIO OUTLET: top name stereo equipment. WHOLESALE. Call 283-1181. 
For Sale: 1 GA Gator bowl ticket at price. Call 8125. 
Skis, Hart Freestyle, 195 em., excellent condition, call 277-3762 nites till midnight. 

BOOK SHOP. Used Books. Students Paradise. Open Wed., Sat., Sun. 9-7. Ralph Casperson Books, 1303 Buchanan Road. Niles, Mich. 
683-2888. 

'73 Vega GT Hatchback, new en­
gine, new tires, new exhaust sys. 
tern, A-C, Best offer, Call 287-5655. 
For Sale: Philips GA212 stereo turntable. SHURE V-15 Type Ill cartrid(le. 6 months old. Call 7122 Paul. Asking $150. 
Personals 
Do you have a package of B-ball tix you now feel you won't get the full use out of? Do you need some quick cash for Christmas? I desperately want and need a package for the rest of the home season. Call Mike at 
788-0088. 

Mike -Happy St. Nicholas Day. 1 love you. Your Christmas Anpel 
The war is over. The debt is paid. My adversary, however wants $3 to sign the ...... armistice. To my paid assasin: hang him high. 
Campus Ministry West offices • gi'Qund floor of Badin -now student operated fl'llm 8 p.m. to midnight, , Sunday through Thursday. .. 
Do you want to be a Catholic? Please call 283-6536 or 283-3820 for infor­mation about the Notre Dame Cafe. chumenate Pro(lram. 
VAL. This year could have been extremely memorable. Please call if you still care. KEVIN 
Georpe · Who'd have ever thought that e(lgno(l would be the start of somethin(l? Happy Anniversary, hon. SVEN 
Yesterday was Di..,I!'S birthday, but call and wish her a happy one anyway. (79721. 
Joe, See page 2. 
T.LG.F.R. If you encounter some­thing that you really want, you have to TACK it down. Titmouse 
Everyone knows 
Life is Mo fun 
With Mo Reynolds. 
To Nancy Cuel'llni's roommate Kitty conklin: I ssssuppose men are equal to women, but can women handle overtime... 
Barbara . Baby Roo? . anywat 1 didn't write anything about Barbie Dolls, but I thought of you anyway. Have fun on Bunny Hills? Christ­
opher Robin 
_____._ __­

the observer Monday, December 6, 197& 
Notre Dame pucksters sweep CC 
by Ray O'Brien when a frustrated Mike Haedrich Brownschidle. Sports Writer went off for roughing at the IS As the game began to get minute mark. monotonous, Donny Fairholm 
The Irish leers pulled off their Notre Dame carefully took their stepped in and created a little firstWCHAswccp of the season by time setting up the power play and excitement. With one Notre Dame downing sixth-ranked Colorado as fate would have it. Walsh, the player in the penalty box Fiarholm 
College 7-2 and 6-2 this weekend at man who was roughed in the picked up an errant Colorado pass, the ACC. infraction, slapped home a re­shot by all defenders and lifted a 
Fast skating. hard forechecking. bounding Clark Hamilton shot to shot by Mitchell who by now must smart defense and persistence put the Irish ahead 2 -0. The goal have felt like a dart board. characterized Notre Dame's play was W a Ish· s eleventh of the season "Fairholm is so fast, watching him this weekend as the Irish put and Notre Dame's twelfth power skate is almost worth the price of together two brilliant performances play tally in II games. admission," plauded Smith. This to capture their first sweep in the Much credit has to be given to was the second straight game in WCHA since their last home stand the Irish defense who were greatly which the Irish scored on a short of the 1975-76 season against responsible for this goal and sever­handed situation. Minnesota-Duluth. al others throughout the weekend. 
Colorado picked up one more
The Irish didn't wait long before "The defense has been playing 
goal when Wayne Holmes took a
getting the action going. With very well in the past few games and 
perfect lead pass from Dave Fcam­
harcl~· three minutes gone in the with the return of Paul Clarke who 
ster and beat Moher who had come 
lir~t period Friday night. freshman was injured the defense has picked 
out to cut down the angle.

-;tandout Greg Meredith broke free up. "explained Coach Lefty Smith. pa~t Colorado·~ defense and skated Notre Dame tallied again with 22 
Fifteen seconds later the Blue 
in one-on-one again~t goalie Paul seconds left in the second period by and Gold struck back as Kevin 
Nugent made good a rebound off a
Mitchell but threw one fake too taking advantage of sloppy Colora­
Donny Fairholm shot. Browns·
man~· as the Tiger nctmindcr made do play in their own end. Karsnia chid!~ closed the scoring with
a stick save. However. the Irish picked up an assist as he dumped 
another power play goal with
came right back on the next rush as off a pass to All-American defense­
assists going to Walsh and Fair­
senior co-captain Dukie Walsh man Jack Brownschidle who lifted holm.
tired a perfect lead pass to his line the puck by Colorado's Mitchell mate Allen Karsnia who let go a giving the Irish a comfortable 3-0 Saturday night's game was very roping shot that found the upper lead. similar as Colorado continued to 
[Photo by Janet Carney] 

right hand corner of the net at 4:46 Colorado finally got on the board rack up penalties and Notre Dame of the first period. when Don Jackson went off for capitalizing on the man advantage. our shots during those power topped all scorers with atotal of 
This was onlv an indication of slashing with I :38 gone in the final Notre Dame scored first again plays." explained Coach Smith. seven points.what to come as both teams came period giving them the man advan­which seemed to be a key to the "We should have blown them out to life. Each team had excellent tage. Jim Warner ruined Mohers team's new found success. This in the tirst period." While being slashed. held and 
-;coring opportunities in the open­bid for a shutout when he lined a tih1e Donny Fairholm started Although Smith's squad contin­roughed (mainly by Magee who ing period but neither club could screened shot on target from the things for the Irish when he ued to dominated play. Colorado picked up ten penalty minutes in <,lap it home as both goalies came the series) the Irish rapped up the
blueline at 3:01 gone. Moher later rebounded a Nugent shot in heavy tied up the game early in the 
scoring with goals by Hamilton andup with key saves. commented on the situation. "I traffic in front of the net at the 9: 13 second period. Dave Delich lined a 

the Steve Schneider and assists going
Colorado took control of wasn't looking for the shutout I just mark. shot off the pads of John Peterson 
game in the early going of the wanted to win. A shutout would to Tim Fairho\m and Geoff Collier. 
and an alert Rick Pracht lifted it second period as they kept the have been nice but they are hard to It was a long wait for the next past the Irish goalie to make the "I was very proud of the discipline 
goal as both teams played fairly our team showed during the nu­pressure on goalie Len Moher. The come by in the WCHA." score 1-1. 
even. The Irish had many oppor­
Notre Dame defense would not The Tigers initial goal served to Karsnia answered for the Irish merous penalty occurances.' · add­
crack and a recently hot Moher wake up the dormant who tunities to score as Colorado con­ed Smith.
Irish with his second goal of the series a
tinually sent men to the penalty box
responded with excellent saves. responded minutes later with roping 20 footer from straight on The Irish move into fourth place
but they could not turn the red light
Colorado came very close to Walsh·s second goal of the night. putting the Irish back in the lead. 
in the WCHA as they evened their

on. "We were too deliberate with
tying the game at times but the The Irish· s fourth goal of the game The Irish never went behind in the record at .500 on the season. Bothluck wasn't with them. This was another power play goal with weekend series. This allowed them 
the offense and defense skatedeventually led to their downfall assists credited to Meredith and to play more open and agressively. superbly. Colorado's goalies could 
Kiley claims cup 
Colorado tied the game for the have gotten sunburned necks as Jay Kiley won the annual last time as Feamster beat Peter­the goal light went on 13 times in Donnohue Cup Regatta held last son on the left side after the Notre the two games (another season weekend at Notre Dame. This Dame goalie lost sight of the puck. 
high for the icers ). Overall Notre event is sponsored by the Notre With the series "Bad Boy," Dame outshot their opponents over

*Observer 
Dame Sailing Club and is open to Dean Magee, off for slashing the the weekend 160-115. 
all first year sailors in the club. Irish co-captains went to work. 
Held in cold. snowy weather, Walsh threaded the. needle on a The hockey team will break Kiley proved that consistency is the pass to Brownschidle who beat a during exams and take their mo­mark of a winner as he finished dazed Scott Owens in the goal for mentum with them as they travel to first four times. and never lower Colorado to make the score 3-2. Boston to take on Har"vard and than fourth for a total of II points. This duo teamed up again less than Boston College on Dec. 19 and 20.
Sports 
Martha Boyle finished second with a minute later for another power 20 points, and Bob Jehle and Ken play goal. The Brownschidle goal Kress tied for third with a total of was his fourth of the series. Walsh 
Swimmers third 

23 points each. also fmished with four goals and ·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:-::::;.;:;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::.:-:-:-:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:::::.:·:·:::::.:::.:·:·:·:·:·:·:::::::::::::::::::::::::::.:·:·:·::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
Fred Herbst The ND swim team placed third in the Notre Dame Invitational Relays Friday night at the Rockne Memorial Pool.
Basketball at its Finest 
Drury College of Springfield, Mo., won the event for the fourth 

::::::::::::::::::;::::::::.::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:::::::::::::::::::::::;::::::::::::.:::;:::.:.:.:.:.:::::.:::::;:;:;::::::;::::::;:::::::::::;:::.:.:·:0:-:·=·::;.;::::::.::::;::::::::::::;:·:.:;:·:·::::;::::;:::::·:.:·:.:.:.:.:.:;:0::;::::::::·:·:·:·:.:-:::~: ~ :-:·::::::::::::::::: Banana Oil 
consecutive year with a total of I03 It was all there -the color, the pagentry, the excitment. It was college Dame -they eat sh...redded wheat." You have to admit, it's cute. St. points. They captured first place in basketball at its finest. Well, maybe if you have an incredible imagination Mary's cheerleaders gave them what Notre Dame lacked-personality. I'd five of nine events. it was. In actuality it was a farce. rather have personality than a win any day. Bradley University finished There were missed layups. numerous turnovers and just more mistakes So with the exception of the cheerleaders from St. Mary's, everything second with 92 points with four in general than one could ever think pos~ible. But if you saw Notre about Saturday's game was bad. If you get the impression that women's first-place finishes. Dame's women's basketball team beat St. Mary's last Saturday, you know basketball and I don't agree, you're right. Somehow basketball that Oakland was fourth with 47 just how many blunders are possible in a single basketball game. features more jump balls than points doesn't appeal to me. points, Wayne State was fifth with In fact. things got so bad that statisticians lost track of the number of 40 points and Valparaiso placed turnovers. When asked how many turnovers there had been, one sixth with 23 points. observer replied. "I really don't know. I lost count at 999,999.999." A Notre Uame opens its dual meet seemingly absurd answer to be sure. but it's probably as close as anyone schedule this afternoon at Cleve­could guess. -land State. They return home to Not even the scoreboard operator could keep things straight. Fans who host Western Michigan Friday were trusting enough to believe the scoreboard went home convinced that night at 7. the final score was 55-35. Actually the final score was 56-35. The officials were altogether another story. Certainly they can't be accused of favoring either team. they were consistent -consistently 
Tickets available 

terrible. They must have learned their basketball in the midwest. 
What game would be complete without coaches? St. Mary's coach just Ticket Manager Mike Busick has !>at passively on her bench and watched her team get blown away. Either announced that a limited number of she just didn't know how to turn her team around, or she just didn't care tickets have become available for enough to do anything. On the other hand was Notre Dame's coach, Sally Princeton (Jan. 3) and Villanova Duffy. She was like a little kid, jumping up and down clapping her hands (Jan.S) basketball games. Both whe~ things went her way and pacing nervously, biting her fingernails games are road games. when they didn't. Tickets for the Princeton game 
Amid such circumstances. the game itself never had a chance. It was are priced at $3 apiece and tickets close until Marge Meagher hit two consecutive bombs late in the opening for the Villanova tilt are $5 each. half to put Notre Dame on their way. The Irish led 20-13 at the half. Tickets are available at the Gate 10 
Carol Lally paced Notre Dame in scoring, with 16 and 13 points ticket window of the ACC. respectively. Carola Cumming added seven points for the winners. Busick has also announced that Martha Kelly paced St. Mary's with 10 markers while Kathy Cullen and refunds are still being issued to Nancy Nowalk each chipped in six points. students who paid a deposit on 
The highlight of the entire event was without a doubt the St. Mary's season basketball tickets last cheerleaders. Unlike the loud, obnoxious chants of those who believed spring and failed to pick up their themselves to be Notre Dame cheerleaders, the cheerleaders from "the tickets this fall. These refunds can other side ofthe road" provided the fans with some rather original cheers be secured by going to the Ticket that made the game somewhat bearable. Manager's office on the second 
"We eat Wheaties, we eat Wheaties, we are fit. Notre Dame, Notre floor of the ACC. 




