

-----------------------------------~-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Two positions added 
Cheerleading dispute ended 
by Jim Commyn staff. A separate set of regulations decision included Benesh, Fr. Bill Staff Reporter drawn up by the student activities Matthews, Tom Reid, Fr. Tom staff will govern the tryouts. They Stella and Bro. Charles McBride. 
Two more cheerleading positions will be released to the candidates John Reid exempted himself from wiII be added to the 1976-77 for approval and consultation early the group because he had partici­checrleading squad. Brother John next week, according to Benesh. pated in the earlier tryouts as one Benesh, director of student activi­The original controversy resulted of the judges. ties. announced the decision Friday from certain violations in the The plan chosen is one of three after nearly two days of deliberat­cheerleaders constitution govern­options that were considered by the ing among the Student Activities ing tryout procedures. A petition staff. The proposals were formu­staff on the controversy which was circulated among several hun­lated after lengthy discussions on questioned the original selection dred students demanding that new Wednesday with concerned stu­process. tryouts be held. Eight violations dents, the cheerleaders. contes­
"At first we thought we were were cited. four relating to the tants and judges. Reid offered his fan·d with a nearly impossible tryout procedure itself and four own observations to the group on ta~k." Benesh said. "We see this charging "moral and ethical" vio­Thursday in another meeting. solution as the fairest possible for lations. One option considered, but re­
all parties concerned." Benesh The major points of contention jected by the panel. was to admit poinlt'd out that the one additional concerned isolation, impartiality that the selection could have have male and one female cheerleader and qualifications of judges, as well been an unbiased one. despite the will he for the 1976-77 school year as the ratio of outside judges to best efforts of the I 975-76 cheer­onlv. These additional cheerlead­judges connected with the cheer­leaders. because seven of the er~·will he selected from among the leading squad this year. The eleven original judges had been on nine female and five male candi­fairness of the point system and the the squad this year. This option date~ who were not selected on interview questions used in the called for a complete rescheduling 
April CoJ. hut had made the final cut evaluation process were also con­of the tryouts from start to finish to that point. tested. with a new board of all "outside" Tryout~ arc tentatively sched­After a two and one-half hour judges. The proposal was rejected uletl for next Wednesday. April28. meeting and discussion in the on the grounds that it would seem Five to seven judges will make Black Cultural Arts Center Monday to solve only the problem of the thl· selection. All will be from April 12. the issue was referred to insufficient number of outside jud­The Student Activities staff decided to add two more cheerleaders to out~ide the University. None will the student activities staff for ges. 
next year's squad, thus ending this year's selection controversy.he Notrl' Dame students. faculty or discussion. The staff making the (continued on page 6) (Photo by Chris Smith) 

server 

untversity of notre dame -st. mary's coliege
Vol. X, No. 120 Wednesday, April 21, 1976 
SLC survey results delayed 
By Barbara Breitenstein 
policy. rules and regualtions and the number of checkmarked cour­Senior Staff Reporter steering committees. These re­ses. Recommendations made in ports were compiled last weekend these reports will be passed on to Due to a lack of time. the by Byrne and the final report for next year's SLC. analyzed results of the Student Life the trustees will be presented to 
Mike Casey, Student Body vice­Council (SLC) questionnaire on the SLC for tina) review at a social president. was voted to serve as social space, alcohol and co-ed get-together this week. 
acting chairperson to call the housing will not be released until Included in the reports arc Council to their tirst organizationalnext year. according to SLC Chair­changes which were implemented meeting in the faiL Cuscy is the man Ed Byrne. 
by the social space committee this student body president Mike Gus~­I 
The raw data from the survey has year. including improvements in man's "permanently designated
been compiled and broken down. LaFortune student center, a report representative" to the Sl.C. but the process of analyzation has on women's athletics. which urges Kathy Kane. Walsh Hall pres­Ricri listl•d "furniture, rugs dnd old girlfriends" objects foras not yet been completed. This
euhdngl' in the fled market planned for next week. varsity status for some women's ident. was also introduced to the 
process will be done over the sports, and· a description of prob· SLC as the new representative from summer or in the fall. and the final 
lems relating to registration pro­the Hall Presidents' Council for 
results will be referred to next cedures, which suggests reducing next year.year's SLC for consideration. The questionnaire, which was 
Student Union outlines new 
goals for upcoming year 
distributed to 1200 students by the SLC in February, was an attempt to 


SMC sets elections 
by Margie lrr different storage company.'' he survey student attitudes on those Staff Reporter added. three areas of student life. The 
by Ann Barnard Katie Cinnamond, Kathy Groskopf.
In addition to the regular stor­results of the survey were to be Staff Reporter and Julie Pelletiere head tickets inThe long-range goal of the age, the Services Commission has submitted to the Board of Trustees Holy Cross Hall, while Eli1.abeth
Studl·nt Union for the coming year worked out an arrangement with an at their regular meeting in May, the only candidate
St. Mary's general elections will Cutter will beis to broaden community aware­airline to transport lockers and but this report which would have be held next Wednesday, April 28. for Regina Hall president.
ness of the Student Union's func­large cartons by air freight. Ling been part of the final SLC report to Class officers, dorm presidents and Elections for Student Assemblvtions, according to Kenn Ricci and noted. "The air freight service will the Trustees this year, will now be vice-presidents will be chosen from were also scheduled for Wednes­Walt Ling. recently appointed di­be 'door-to-door' and will be espe­delayed until next year. 
a large number of declared slates. day. Only four people -Cindyrector and associate director. Ricci dally offered for seniors who won't In the last regular business A special get-together on Sunday Shirack, Judy Eckelkamp, Maryand Ling discussed activities and be storing." meeting of the year last week, the night, April 25, will allow St. Pat Wilson, and Mary McMahon · services to he offered this spring Ricci discussed what he sees as SLC approved committee reports Mary's students to meet informally submitted nominatin.g petitions.
and next year. an obstacle to be overcome and for this final report to the Trustees, with the candidates. Short present­Since at least Ib representatives,First on the agenda is a flea how the new directors and commis­passed a new Judicial Board Man­ations will be offered by each slate, one for each 100 people in everymarkl'l in the Observer. Students sioners plan to do it. "There are a ual. and paved the way for the new and questions will be taken from hall, must be elected, the electionwho wi~h to exct.:mgc or sell goods lot of people who don't know what SLC to take over next year. 
the floor. for student assembly will probably
can do so by placing an ad at the Student Union does. We're at­The new Judicial Board Manual The candidates for class ofticers be rerun in the fall.
Studt·nt Union office before Friday. tempting to make people aware of provides instructions for procedure may run only on a ticket of four
Th(' ads will run in the Observer all that we offer." he explained. in hall disciplinary action and nl'Xt week. "It's a great opportu­Ricci observed that the lines of defines ethical standards for judi­people -president. vice-president. nity for seniors who have junk to communication between Student cial boards. According to the new secretary. and treasurer. The get rid of before they leave," said Union and the students must be manual. the student accused of a 
senior class race will be between the tickets headed by presidential
Ricci. "Furniture. rugs and old used to their fullest advantage. violation must be given written girlfriends" were a few items "We want to establish closer ties notitication of his violation and the candidates Cindy Callahan and which Ricci and Ling named for with the Observer and with the Hall time and place of his hearing. This Karen Korhumel. probable exchange. Presidents Council." he stated. notification must be given at least The slates topped by presidential 
Summer storage. handled by the Ling added that he and Ricci four school days prior to his hopefuls Mary Garrett, Nancy Mo­Servkes Commission under Casey would attend future Hall Council scheduled appearance before the gah, and Leslie Stalker will vie for Nolan. is being expanded and meetings. "We want to be board. the junior class offices. The improved this spring. Ling ex­available on request and try to keep The student may now be pro­sophomore class will choose among plained why last year's storage in touch with the students," said vided with board members' names, tickets headed by Laura Beth Hart. Election Commissioner Mindy re!.ultcd in losses to students as Ling. which were previously often kept Jerri Plumb, and Terry Touhy. Montesi is very pleased with the well as to the company. In order to directly inform stu­secret to protect members. The Dorm officers will run on a slate number of candidates for the 

"The company misjudged and dents of Student Union functions, a accused student will also be given a which includes president and vice­upcoming elections. The election 
didn't send enough trucks to student manual will be compiled written summarization of the boa­president. Vying for the LeMans will be held next Wednesday from handle everything. They ended up and distributed next fall. "I think rd's decision. presidential post will be Michele 10 a.m.-6 p.m. in LcMans lobby. losing about $2,000 worth of the last time Student Union put one As their final action of the year, Jaworski, Claire Hatch, and Rita All students arc urged to attend the goods." said Ling. "This year out was in 1973," said Ricci. "The the SLC also received reports from Probst. In McCandless Hall. the meet-the-candidates session on Su­we'll increase the number of pick­new one will be updated, of course, the campus life, off-campus and tickets are headed by Karen Bickel. nday night in Reignbeaux (LeMans 
up spots and we've also got a (continued on page 6) community relations, planning and Susy Gauthier, and Sherry Senese. Lobby). 

----~ 

the observer Wednesday., April 21, 1976 
----News Briefs--­
t=====================Intemational More attacks expected 
KUALA LUMPUR, Malaysia --Increased attacks by Communist guerrillas trying to topple the pro-Western government in Malaysia are expected following Communist admissions of a split within the movement and fighting for control of recruits, officials and diplomats said yesterday. They did not consider the fighting at this time a major threat, but the government is concerned. 

Martha breaks her arm 
NEW YORK--Martha Mitchell, who has been under treatment for a painful bone cancer since last fall, now is a patient at the Hospital for Special Surgery. She was admitted after breaking her arm. 

Last-minute effort 
CLEVELAND --Federal mediation chief James Scearche met with United Rubber Workers president Peter Bommarito late yesterday in a last-minute effort to avert a nationwide strike against the rubber industry's Big Four. Scearce said before entering the discussion with Bommarito he was optimistic about prospects for a settlement. 

Attacks on vessels investigated 
WASHINGTON --President Ford's spokesman said yesterday the United States is investigating reported attacks on Cuban vessels in the Caribbean Sea and action will be taken against anyone under 
U.S. jurisdiction who was involved. 
Expanded probe ordered 
INDIANAPOLIS  -­ The  FBI has been ordered to  conduct  a  full  
investigation  into  circumstances  surrounding  Rep.  Morris  K.  
Udall's  failure  to  qualify  for  the  May  4  Indiana  Democratic  

presidential primary ballot. 0. Franklin Lowie, agent in charge of the FBI bureau in Indianapolis, said the U.S. Justice Department ordered the expanded probe after a preliminary investigation showed possible violations of federal election law. 

---On Campus Toda!J'--' 
12:15 pm 
1 pm 
6:30 pm 6:30pm 
7 pm 
7 pm & 10 pm 7:30pm 
8 pm 8 pm 
8 pm midnight 
12:15 am 

-seminar, "herpes vir us gene expression in transform­ed cells" by dr. patricia g. spear, university of chicago galvin auditorium 
-baseball, gerris ~tate college at notre dame. doubleheader 
-meeting, sailing club, room 204 engineering building 
-slides and discussion, "life in a chilean village" by mr. james ward mundell, president of the chol-chol foundation for human development library lounge 
-job interview, skills workshop counseling center, main building 
-film, "amarcord" engineering aud;torium tickets: $1 
-humanistic lecture series, "the immigrant and the 
bicentennial·  the boston experie'lce" by dr.  thomas  
brown,  university of massachusEtts,  boston.  carroll  
hall  

-psychic demonstration, the amazing kreskin washing­ton hall 
lecture, "the role of the graduate student in the university community" by reverand james t. burtchaell lrbrary auditorium 
-concert, spring choral concert o'laughlin auditorium -album hour wsnd 640 AM a new release album wi II be featured in its entirety 
-nocturne night flight wsnd 88.9 FM the best in progressive rock, jazz and blues. tonight's host: tom pauli us 
Senate candidate at ND 


Hayes attacks Hartke1s conduct 
by Karen Sikorski 
Staff Reporter 

Indiana Congressman Philip Hayes attacked the political con­duct of Senator Vance Hartke in a campaign appearance in the library lounge last Wednesday. 
Hayes will attempt to unseat the three-term Senator in the May 4 Democratic primary. 
The appearance, sponsored by the Student Union Academic Commission, was planned as a debate between the two candi­dates. Hartke never gave a definite answer to the invitation, according to the organizers. A chair was reserved for him next to Hayes, but he did not appear. Hayes said Hartke's absence showed that the senator ''isn't interested in discus­sing the important issues of the campaign.'' 
Hayes also criticized Hartke's involvement with special interest groups and use of Veterans Affairs committee funds for travel. Hayes claimed Hartke received large campaign contributions from truck­ing companies which handle mov­ing for military personnel. The connection, according to Hayes, influenced the senator's stand on a bill which would limit government payments to the movers. 
Hartke's recent signing of a Senate Right to Life amendment was called a "sudden revelation" by his opponent. ''After 17 years he is finally interested in securing the aproval and support of the Right to Life organizations in this state," Hayes said. adding that Hartke's stand was "strictly a political move" and probably wouldn't help the senator's cam­paign. 
Hayes said if elected to the Senate he would "support but not sponsor" a Right to Life amend­ment. Other issues such as capital punishment and euthanasia must be considered in discussing a constitutional amendment, Hayes said, because "we have an obliga­
(*The Observerl 
Returning from the St. Mary's 
Country Club 
Night Editor: Marti "Evert" 
Hogan 
Ass't Night Editor "Billie 
Jean" Dahrling 
layout Staff Karilee Clark, 
Leigh TunaKan, Julie Pel Iet­
tiere, Frank Kebe, joe Bauer 
Day Editor: Marianne Schulte 
Copy Reader: Barbara Breit­
enstein, Cathy Nolan 
Editorials: Jim Commyn 
Features Gregg Bangs 
Fumbling W.S Nichols 
Sports: Pat Cole, Fred Herbst 
Typists: Karen ("I love 
sports") Chiames, Neil Viii, 
Karen Hinks 
l 
Ad layout: Tom Walrath, Sally Dentz J 
~ight Controller: Dave Rust 
The Observer is published /1/'ooday through Friday and weekly during the sui'TJ11el" session, except during the exams and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of the Univ. of Notre Darre and St. /~Airy's College. Subsrriptions rray be purdlased for $18 ($10 per semester) Iro-n The Observer, Box Q, Notre Darre, Indiana 46556. Second Class postage paid, Notre Darre, IN 46556. 
tion to make a statement about what life means.'' 
The small audience of about 20 listeners, mostly students, was no surprise to Hayes, who said, "Pol­itics is a big turnoff, especially for your age group." He blamed the way campaigns are run for making politics "a grinding, slumbering
,......................................, 
~ Graduating Senio~! Congratulations! After 4  ~ !  
~  _years of hard \M>rk you  ~  
~ ~  deserve a new car. No payrrents unti I August.  ~i  

~ Call or See Art or Jack at: ~ ~ Metro Unooln-mercury ~ ~ Mishawaka, Indiana ~ ~ 256-0211 ~ 
...........,.......,........ 
THIS WEEK 
bore.·· 

Hayes said he had wanted to debate with Hartke because it would have made the senatorial campaign more interesting. ''The issues of the primary must be considered in the context of being Democrats," he pointed out. 

RESEARCH 
FREE CATALOG! 
Write or call for your copy of our latest catalog of over 5,000 re­search studies. These studies are designed to HELP YOU IN THE PREPARATION of: 
• Reseatch Papers 
• 
Essays • Case Studtes 

• 
Speeches • Book Reviews WE ALSO DO CUSTOM WRITING 


MINUTE RESEARCH 
1360 N Sandburg. 111602 
Chicago, IllinoiS 60610 
312-337-2704 

MONDAY  ALL DRINKS  1/2  PRICE  
WEDNESDAY  DRINK 'N DROWN  
THURSDAY  PITCHER BEER NIGHT  



BRUCE CARR 
THE WHITE HOUSE INN 
CLOSED TUESDAYS 2839 N. 5th ST. NILES 683-9842 




'Tearafter' ear.I semester ·after 
Tom McMahon 
semester. the 
General Agent 
College Master from FidelitY l'nion Life has ht•en the most acCl'pted. most popular plan on campuses all mer:\nll'rica.




NOBODY THROWS A FROliC LIKE THE IRISH!!!!! 
,~N TOSTAL PRESENTS: APRIL 24th
THE 
9:00p.m.-1:00a.m. 
Tickets Available 






IRISH 
This Week In The Dining Halls--$3 per person. 

WAKE 
A Great Irish Mournin On Saturday Evening... 
Agent 

·" 
Karen Wentland Agent 


t\~;, 
Diane Long Agent 
Find out "In. ('all the Fidelity l ·nion ( 'ollt•gl.·\laster ril'ld Associatt' 
m ~our area: 
915 E. Cedar South Bend, Ind. Phone 287-2327 
.~ ... 
,~, 
( Z)llc~C.\ h\Lcr 
' 

Wednesda~,~pril 21, 1976 the observer
Exam committee appointed 


HPC to investigate morning exam decision 
By Don Reimer Copy Editor 

The Hall President's Council ( H PC) last night appointed a Sports Commission Board and a commit­tee to work with the Student Government Academic Commis­sioner in investigating the recent proposal for 8 a.m. exams. Newly­elected H PC Chairman J.P. Russell presided over the meeting, the first 
attended by all of the new hall presidents. 
The committee to look into the exam situation was established after one of the council members noted that several students had inquired about the situation. The committee will deliver their report at next week's HPC meeting.. 
Russell explained that the exam committee of four hall presidents 

Newly-elected HPC president J.P. Russell met last night with new hall presidents .md An Tostal Chairman Bo~.-Q._:___u_a_ke_n_b_u_s_h_._____ 
Are YOU the ugliest man? 
by Virginia McGowan Staff Reporter 

Alpha Phi Omega is sponsoring 
the annual Ugly Man on Campus 
contest during An Tostal as their 
tina\ fund-raiser of the year. 
Starting at noon .tomorrow, 
voting will 

begin to seck out and honor the 
Ugly Man on Campus (UMOC). 
Booths will he set up at both Notre 
Dame and St. Mary's dining halls. 
Unlimited numbers of votes can be 
purchasL·d at a penny a vote during 
mcab and throughout the Irish 
WakL· on Saturday night. Tl.e ugly 
winner will be announced at the 
end of the Irish Wake. T-shirts 
fl-aturing the Ugly Man face will he 
'old for $4 at the voting booths. 
An·ording to Harry Bainbridge, prc..,idcnt of Alpha Phi Omega, proceL·ds from the UMOC contest will go to Sr. Marita's Primary Day S..:hool in South B<.•nd. "Sr. Marita i.., our main charity." Bainbridge notes. "Any money we get goes to her aside from costs.'' 
Alpha Phi Omega is a branch of a national service fraternity associat­ed with the Boy Scouts. In keeping with their motto "Be a leader. be a friend, he of service," APO spon­sors charity projects such as the UMOC contest which involves the Notre Dame and SMC community. 
Bainbridge lists the Shakespeare readings. held on South Quad for four football Saturdays, and a Christmas party for Sr. Marita's children, as among last semester's activitcs. Upcoming events will include an Easte~ egg hunt at the school, and a Mav Dav celebration. 
t:OHKY SIEt;EI, BLACKSTONE BlJCK HOHN 

l)U MUSIC ~ Sat. May 8 ~~ 
~v 

-~ ""
-
::c -~ 
'f) 
:=:­
lla.m. to dusk 
a nANn~ t:oNt:EsstoNs 2 STAta~s BEER jW/I.D.) ON 200 At:RES 2 mi. n. of Bu('hanan 
was instructed to work ·with the Academic Commissioner in order to avoid duplication of effort. He stated that next year the HPC would use the available committees and Student Government offices to investigate such topics as the exams. 
A Sports Committee Board was selected to replace the sports commisioners from each hall. The board, consisting of presidents of seven men's and six women's halls, will work with Dominick Holy Cross hall president, ex­plained that his goal for next year's HPC was simply to accomplish the things it was especially suited for. "I would like to help the HPC to realize its potential as a represen­tative of the students," he said. 
He explained that the HPC was a group of 22 people elected directly by the students in each hall and therefore this body could serve as a "tremendous hub for communica­tion.'' Because the HPC is close to what is going on in the halls, it is 
especially suited to do many little things such as the recent selection 
of interhall all-star teams,  as  well  
as  major  events  like  An  Tostal,  
Russell noted.  
In other HPC business,  Russell  

expressed hope that the HPC' surveys on the Observer and the player eligibility rule for interhall athletics will be completed by the end of the semester. The Ombuc!­sman will compile the surveys as soon as the hall presidents return them, Russell said. 
Napolitano, director of Non-Varsity I!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~ 
Sports, in dealing with all interhall sports. 
The presidents of Keenan, Flan­ner, Holy Cross and Grace on the North Quad and Sorin, Morrissey, and Pangborn on the South Quad will serve on the men's board, 
while  presidents  from  all  six  
women's  halls  will  sit  on  the  
women's board.  

The voting for the HPC Execu­tive coordinator was postponed until next week because all applicants could not be reached. Mary McCormick was elected as HPC Secretary by a unanimous vote. McCormick. who has worked for 
the HPC in several functions previously, will assist the chairman and the executive coordinator in carrying out the business of the HPC. 
Russell, who this year served as 
Tickets 3.50 Advance. 4.00 Day of Available thru Boogie Records, Record Joint, Vegetable Buddies, Suspended Chord 
MARTIN HO(;MAN & TilE AHMSTRONES BRll<:E <:ARR SHOW 
APO, although a service organi­"Initiation is a big, long rite zation, is required as a national explaining to the prospective fraternity to hold initiation rites members the symbol of the crest 

and flag, etc., what the organiza­tion stands for and what's expect­ed,·' commented Paul Starkey, 
A PO historian · 
Initiates joining the present 24­member organization are taken into a closet and blindfolded. Led into a darkened room, club officers un­blinbd the initiates and light a candle as each APO objective is read. Initiates are then required to repeat the APO pledge invoking leadership, friendship and service. 
With approximately half of their members graduating in May. APO ofticers encourage any interested 
each semester. A recent initiation individual to join. took place last Sunday at Nicola'~ For more information, restaurant. contact Harry Bainbridge at 3288. 
·~~::1=:1<=-!I=L:::..tl.::.l 
Fine German Our Speciality 

Huns Huus 
2803 South Mich&gan Street Phone 291-557.;. 1 
Gerrr;dn FoQU Our Sp£JCialty 
Created wlih Old Wonrl Atmosphere. Special& zing in German a'1d American Foods 
• SotJth Bend's Finest Banquet Rooms 
The Alpme & Bavarian Rooms Open 10:30 a.m. to 10:30 p.m.-Closed Sundays and Holidays 


BLACKHAWK 
LINE OF KITES 

NeWs 
& General Store 113 West Monroe St. South Bend 






'• -. 


-. 

.,..a ~ 

lliiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiil•iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiill 

PRATI &WHITNEY AIRCRAFT 
REPRESENTATIVES WILL BE 


ON PUS 
APRIL 22, 1976 
to interview for 

ENGINEERING POSITIONS 
in East Hartford, Connecticut & West Palm Beach, Florida 
Consult your Placement Office. for degree and field of study requirements 
PRATT&WHITNEY AIRCRAFT (.\II1''·' . ' 
UNITED TECHNOLOGIES 

An Equal Opportunity Employer I Male & Female 

r 
r 
~ 
r 
r 
r 
r 

Founded November 3. 1966 

The Observer" publ"ht·d b\ studt·nt~ ot tht> UnJVP"'l\ ot Notrt> Udnw dnd '>t \\.~r\ , Collq~t· It dot'' not nt><f''>\drti\ retiPct thP poll<"'' ot P1th..r ""t•tut1<1n 1ht• "~'"'' "rt•portt>d d' auurd!!'lv ond obwctJvt>i\ a> po\\1blt> 
·I dJt«n.tJ, rPprt'"'nt tht• op1n10n ot d f11diOrlt\ ot tht' f d1tondl Boord l «lllllH'nt.trJt'' .trt> tht' '""'" ot Jndi\Jdu<ll t'd1tor' Opm1on' Cdrtoon' dnd 
n•gul.tr u!l_LIIlHh t'\prt'" thP VIP\\' ot tht>1r duthor' Column 'fld<t' " 
,1\,lll.!hlt• to .til nH•mtw" ot tht• tOJnmunJt\ dnd IPttP" drt' Pn<ourdgt•d to prtH1ltllt' tht• trt't' t•xprt".. .,ton ot \df\lng o'plm-on!-t.On ~~~1pu.., 
,, \\ ., _'h { hlltll 
1<1111 \\ fwl.1n
lorn ,'\1odgllll 

U.S. Role in Rhodesia? 
john ssemanda 
Of late. Henry Kissinger has warned Cuba and the Soviet Union to avoid involvement in the internal affairs of Rhodesia either by taking side with the Zimbabwe African Peoples Union (ZAPU) or with the Zimbabwe African National Union (ZANU). In most of the African countries, objection from the U.S. and Britain in the recent Angolan political situation, was seen as reasonable and understandable. However. the objection to help the black movement in Rhodesia is very likely to be received with less ease and it might create negative feelings towards Kissinger and 
U.S. in Africa. 

It may be that the Africa of today 
has not made much impression in 
the U.S. as it has done in Europe 
and Asia. At least it can be said 
that the impression has lacked 
some accuracy and updatedness. 
Since the "Scramble for Africa" in 
the last half ofthe last century, and 
especially since the colonial times, 
Africa has received a lot of good 
from the European countries and 
the U.S.A., and in general realizes 
an obligation to be grateful. Never­
theless, there are many values 
which have been sacrificed and in 
some ways much freedom and 
happiness has been lost by the 
African people. Even today, in 
some countries like Rhodesia, an 
African is being required to sacri­
fice himself or herself either direc­
tly or indirectly to the well-being of 
the invaders, their children. and· 
their children's children. 

For so long, Africa has expressed her various complaints and ap­pealed to the 'first world coun­tries', especially to the U.S., for help. Most of the help given has been in medical care, educational assistance and ammunitions to the various ruling fronts. Very little has been offered so as to enable the helpless victims to overcome the state of agony to which they have been condemned. 
The Soviet Union and Cuba, although they could, and are in actuality being suspected to, have some other goals, are being looked at as friendly countries that have recognized the urgent and serious social and political problems the blacks in Rhodesia and South Africa are facing. Kissinger's ob­jection to the Cuban move could be seen as indirect approval of the malicious and inhuman practices of the white Rhodesians and the white Soutb Africans; and, this might lead many Africans to look at the 
Americansas agents of the torturers rather than viewing them as their brothers and sisters, even though Kissinger claims to be operating on an international diplomatic policy basis. 
Ten years ago, Ian Smith and the ruling Rhodesian Front illegally declared independence from Britain. Since then, the ruling Front has become worse than the colonialists which preceded it. Time and time again, the black majority from within and without Rhodesia have demanded immed-
EDITORIAL BOARD 
l h<lllld' ()  ....... ,J  I d,tor·J11·Ch~t·l  
[),111 '>,IIH ht•f  J\1.tndgll1g f d1tor  
Crt•gg ll.II1L!'  I  "'' utl\t' f d1tor  
\dl /urhl"  I  "'' utl\t' E d1tur  
J',1t H,1111IJn  I <lit<lrJ,Ji I d1tor  
lloh ,\\.tdt•r  I \t'LUtl\t' N~'"''  I d1tor  
\\.Jurt•t•n I linn  C,11npu' I d1tur  
\1t~rtt  HuL!dll  '>1  M.tr\  '  I d1tor  
Il< >11 Rt'1111t'r  Cop\ f d1tor  
11111 () RPiit•\  I t·.ttun•' l-d1tur  
I r•·d Hvrh,t  '>port' f d1tur  
,\\M\ I g.ll1  Contnhut1ng I d1tor  

iate maJonty rule. The consistent reply from the Rhodesian rulers has been not only silence and 'do not bother us, we are busy' but also more inh~man oppr~ssion. 
The whtte Rhodestans, who.n?m­ber about a quarter of a mtlhon, enjoy a high standard of living, and their standard of living . can -hardly 
be equa_lled anywhere 1.n the ~ .S.~. Rhodestan urban :Vhttes hve m detached houses m segregate_d suburbs; many houses have thetr 
own swimming pools. For example, in Salisbury alone, there are 6500 swimming pools with a white population of 122,000. Each white Rhodesian family has at least one servant, who is of course black, and whose monthly wage is about $9 or less. Their children go to white-only government schools, and every white receives medical treat­ment in 'whites-only' hospitals. 
For the black Rhodesians, life is different altogether -composed of agony, hardship, oppression, injus­tices, poverty and exclusion from their rightful role in the political life of the country. The economic situation for the blacks is extremely bad; about 75 percent of the blacks are employed with incomes below subsistence level. There is very little most Africans can do since dialogue has been rejected once and for all, and it is the whites who possess the guns. Thus unless the 
U.S.A. shows positive empathy and 
acts, the black Rhodesians will continue suffering the inhuman oppression and Kissinger's objec­tion to Cuban aid will very likely break the hearts of many black Africans. 
Ifindeed the developed countries consider themselves developed, they should feel a mission of service to the developing countries. 
Th Rh d · d S h Af · 
e o estan an out ncan political and social situation is the most serious and most urgent on the continent of Africa. The Bicen­tennial celebrations for the U.S. should be an occasion to reflect on how much the U.S. is dedicated to the helpless of the world and to those struggling to obtain liberty and justice. There can hardly be love, justice, order and tranquility in Rhodesia or South Africa unless the present situation is changed; and, to change the situation the U.S. hand is very vital. The whole world is waiting tosee how much the U.S. can do to counteract a conscious, systematic pattern of human oppression in South Africa. It is a pattern whereby 19 percent of the whole population have excluded the 81 percent of their fellow citizens from all political power at the national level. This small minority has the ownership of over 80 percent of the land and has arranged the econom­ic and educational system to keep the blacks within the country apart from the almost unparalleled afflu­ence and also ensuring that the 
black majority does not escape from the condition of inferiority to which it has been condemned. 
tucU, IT's CERTAIN­
YES, SIR. WE ALWAYS 

LY 50McTHIN6 Ya' 
UK& TO PlAY THE. NA-
7/Vc Ml/5/C OF VISITING

fXJN76CT TO HeAR 
EVCRY OAY-A G/1­
FORB6N 0/GNITAR/£5-VGRY 

N&SE BANO 
TO MAK/3 7H!3M F/3131-THOUGHT­IJYI~i/H 'l'.lfl&fF. fJW TH/3 
RI&HT AT !lOMe! R/l..
I I 

HON£Y, tuHAT 00 I'M AfRAI!J YOU SAY WE 60 7HATMXJI.J} IE 
seriously folks!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 


Anyone For Slavery? 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiOrt buchwald 
WASHINGTON--The ethnic issue has become a major one in this year's campaign. Every presidential candidate, in one way or another, has assured his audiences that, while he is not for ethnic purity, he doesn't believe the government should get into the business of ethnic impurity. 
I have a black colleague who is very nervous about the direction the campaign is taking. 
"They don't talk about unemployment, corruption in government or tax reform any more. They're all tripping over themselves trying to explain that, while they think blacks should live anywhere they want to, the government should not do anything to hurt the neighborhood." 
"That's reasonable," I said to Wilson. "If you're a candidate, the ethnic vote is very important in this country and it would be political suicide to get those people mad." 
"I agree. But what worries me is that some reporter is going to ask a candidate what he thinks about slavery. Suppose the newspaperman says 'Are you in favor of repealing the Thirteenth Amendment?' What's the politician going to say?" 
''I'm certain he 'II say he's against bringing back slavery," I said. 
''I'm not too sure," Wilson said. "The South is very important to the election and most of the candidates might waffle on it, just as they have on ethnic purity." 
"What do you mean?" 

"Well, one candidate might say, 'Everyone knows my record on slavery, and I don't believe in it. At the same time I do not think it's Washington's job to say to people they can't own slaves if they want them. I think each area should make its own decision on whether they think slaves are good or bad for the community.' '' 
"I can't believe that, Wilson. Every one of the candidates is an honorable man and there would be a furor if a candidate even hinted he was for slavery." 
"Maybe. But then what would happen after the furor is that the candidate would apologize and say he didn't mean it the way it came out. The bad thing is that it would become an issue in the campaign and the reporters would ask all the candidates where they stood on slavery." 
"Wouldn't they denounce it?" 

"Not during the primaries. There are a lot of states where the proslavery forces could swing an election. What would happen is that one candidate would say, 'I do not believe in slavery per se, but with the high unemployment in the country we shouldn't discard it out of hand.' Another candidate would attack his opponents for raising the slavery issue, but would go on the record as saying, 'The economy comes first, and if we can reduce the welfare bill in thi c country by bringing slavery back I think it will benefit a, Americans, of every race, creed and color.' " 
Wilson continued, "The best we can hope for is a candidate saying, 'I am not prepared to discuss the slavery issue at this time, but if I am elected President I will a~point a commission to look into 
it.'" 
"Wilson," I said, "I think you're overreacting. I don't believe slavery will become an issue in the campaign. There are so many other important issues like the Panama Canal that I can't conceive of that becoming one." 
"What about 'ethnic purity'? No one thought that would be an issue, but when it came up the media ran with it like O.J. Simpson. By the way, where will you stand on it if it does come up?" 
"Well, I don't like slavery any better than anybody else," I said. "And I wouldn't vote for anyone who comes out for the repeal of the Thirteenth Amendment. At the same time. if it could bring down the price of cotton and tobacco and increase our balance of trade with other nations, I don't see ; :1ything wrong with having a pilot program to see if it would work. But it should be done on a local level. I would hate to see the Washington bureaucrats get involved with it because they would only screw it up." 
PAY A VISIT ON IMPOSS!BtE. SIR. MONTHS fAINSTAKIM'it.Y SC/?JJTI/ti/ZING YGS, 51R!
SMOKING

l 01-' Tffl6-SEc TENG 15 NOW THE /?H&TORICAl NUANCES OF &VERY PISTOf._? /?AMWWT 
~ HOW He'sMAKIN' tuORJ<JNG ONA MAJOR 7EN8 SPGECJI OF THE LA~ R&VISIONISM-' MAY 4TH FAI?M! RVE YEARs/ KMJI.I/MIAT7HfYfOfJN!J? I 
I
>-\ 

0::: "' 
::> 
1:0 
V) 
w 
z 
0 
0 
0 

I 711/NK YOU'lL. LJK£ Tll/5 N&XT PI&C&, 700, 511<. IT's ''ROCKY TAK£Mc lA/HAT I 813/../EVc MOfiNTAIN NO~IJJRO. 
YOUCAU A HIGH." "STANOARo.':. I
I
I 
AS A MATT!iR OrrAG; A TMM OF TOP MARXOtotJISTS HA!J SP£NT 
A 


concerts 
pure prairie league plurally pleases patrons 
gregg b. bangs 

There were two different wavs to view 
Monday night's Pure Prairie League 
concert at Morris Civic Auditorium. and 
luckily. both of them proved to be 
enjoyable. 
On the surface level. the six-man country rock hand played a short. but very competent and enjoyable set comprised of sixteen songs. including one encore. Most of the songs were from the group's last two album~. Two Lane Highway and If The Shoe Fits. Many people thought the show would last longer because the group has put out a tota-l of four albums to draw ma tcria I from. 
This is where the second aspect of the show comes in. Pure Prairie League has lived two lives since its inception in 1971-72. The current band is in the unfortunate position of having to live up to a reputation largely based on the success of their first "life." To be more specific, PPL's growing reputation is largely based on their second album. Bustin' Out, and the singles "Amie" and "Early Mornin' Riser", both of which were written and sung by ex-lead guitarist and group founder Craig Fuller. 
The group broke up after Bustin' Out, but came back together when RCA rcrclcased "Arnie" and found it had a hit without a group. However, due to some internal hassles. Fuller didn't join the band. Some legal battles ensued over who owned the name Pure Prairie League. and no love was lost between Fuller and his ex-mates. As a result of these battles, Fuller receives practically all the royalties of the hits he wrote. while PPL is faced with having to present them in concert sans Fuller. 
This dilemma particularly plagued them when thcv toured after the release of their lir't rctu~n album. Two Lane Highway. With so little new material to play, PPL played all of their new disc and a lot of older material. which was mostly Fuller's. 
After the release of their latest lp. If The Shoe Fits, PPL found they had enough of their own material to sustain a show without having to rely on older material (namely Fuller's). 
PPL did play "Amie", which is still their most popular song, and "Early Morning Riser." which Reilly dedicated to a "good friend" who had to be Fuller. with enthusiastic results from the audience. Bassist Mike Reilly sang both vocals in Fuller's place. His voice is not as smooth as Fuller's, nor is his delivery, but the crowd didn't seem to mind the difference, if indeed they even were aware of it. (Several spectators asked Reilly after the show why he didn't sing more of the songs he wrote on his first two albums. He took it in stride and said they're too slow, even though he knew the questions pertained to Fuller's material.) 
More importantly. Reilly sang them with his own deep. country oriented delivery. which is more the current PPL style. The omission of older, more famili~r Fuller tunes might hurt them now but will help them in the long run to gain a solid, non-schizophrenic identity. 
This identity will be based on the clean, generally up-tempo oriented country-rock tunes presented at Morris Civic. Most of the songs presented were geared to the instrumental interaction of Lead Guitarist Larrv Goshorn, Pianist Michael Connor and Steel Guitarist-Banjo-Slide player John David Call. 
Call is the centerboard of Pure Prairie League. Practically every song of their new rcpitoirc depends on him to hold it together. which he does easily. From the opening bars of the opener, "Kansas City Southern". where he gets his steel guitar to sound like a railroad engine, to ''I'll Fix Your Flat Tire, Merle," where he matches his clean pickin' with any Nashville studio musician. Call was fasCinating to watch and listen. 
Aside from the Fuller tunes and Gosh­orn's "Two Lane Highway," "Pickin' To Meet The Devil" was probably the most well-received song of the night. Call and pianist Connor were the reasons. Calls' banjo picking set the way for an imagina­tive and lively solo by Connor. 
Larrv Goshorn gave several tine solos on both lead and acoustic guitar. His acoustic solo on "Amie" is better than Fuller's and his loud. blaring solos on electric guitar sounded more at home in concert than they do on their recordings. In general, most of PPL's material sounded better live. There are several reasons for this. First off. Goshorn's previously mentioned electric guitar solos have all the tact of a butc~er's knife. The cutting, loud and sometimes raucous solos seems to have no place in some of PPL's records because they are a sharp contrast to the group's laid back­country approach. On stage, the lively atmosphere welcomes a loud guitar. 
Hence. Goshorn sounded better. 
The stage also gives a person the opportunity to watch Call and Connor perform. Many people are probably not aware what a steel guitar can do, and arc not impressed by Call on record. In concert. he gave a convincing promotion job for the steel guitar. Connor did much of the same with his piano filler work. 
The crowd seemed appreciative, but only showed extensive vocal support for a few tunes. In fact, the concert reminded this particular viewer of a similar concert in the 
spring of 1974 when a group with a few hit~ and two albums came to play at Morri~ Civic. The half-tilled auditorium loved the hits but sat still through the new material. The new material was otT an album calkd On The Border, and the group was the< Eagles. Things kept getting bettn f1w them and if PPL keeps building up thctr new identity they might encounter sonll'­what similar success. 
Improbable, one might say. But the Eagles heard the same comments in '74. You can never tell. PPL is a lighting band...they have no right being together now. After a lot of adversity. they're going places and they have no intention of stopping. Monday's show was a fine example of the music they're basing their climb on. 

personality profiles 
william krill---enjoying the l~te night life of a notre dame security guard 
Unfortunately the only way some stu­dents may meet a potential friend like William Krill is in an awkward moment when the security squad car lights "catch" them "in the act". Sgt. Krill, who has enjoyed 56 years as a law enforcement ofticer. including the last four years with Notre Dame security, understands stu­dents. He appreciates their tendency to play pranks yet also senses the point at which foolish play turns into inconsiderate danger. 
"I understand that students get cooped up for three to four days studying and they just want to spread their wings and do things for excitement. But it's the little seemingly harmless things which add up." Krill cautioned. 
Climbing to touch the hallowed dome of the administration building. taking a moon walk over Stepan Center and the A.C.C., rollng boulders in the middle of the street, and stealing portable stop signs arc examples of Notre Dame's infamous traditions. • 
Sgt. Krill regards Notre Dame like a small city. "Instead of county, state, or city rules. it's campus regulations which we must enforce." Since graduating from the South Bend Police Academy, Krill has served with the civil defense unit of South Bend for I 6 years He was captain of the St. Joseph County police force. After an interim period spent working as a teamster he returned to his law enforcmg career as chief of police in Constantine, Michigan. 
"I just wasn't helping anyone as a truck driver," Krill said. Believing police work to be his "vocation", Krill devoted hs energy to alleviating Constantine's serious drug problems. He feels that in his one year there he did make a successful beginning. 
"I got thes young adults to come down to the station to just talk. I'd ride bikes with them, talk with them, invite them down to the station to visit." Krill said he still writes to a young friend in Constantine who was on hard drugs. He brings that accessibility and paternal concern to his job at Notre Dame. 
"I like to talk with students straightfor­wardly. I'm not a psychologist. Some say that I remind them a lot of their dad. Just so they don't talk mathematics or psycho! ogy we can communicate well," Krill chuckled. Part of this easy skill in communicating came not from the police academy training but from dealing with three sons now married who also did a lot of foolish things too. 
Believing that "nobody in their right mind would make the effort to climb the dome or steal stop signs". Krill attributed the motivation for such traditional stunts to drinking and answering a dare. 
"They do it because it's the "in thing" to do," Krill shook his head. They get in a group and decide, 'Let's rip off the gates at security'. They are just pranksters. They want to be able to tell their sons that they did something. If you're a goody-goody the whole time at college." Krill chuckled, "you've got no adventures to tell." 
Krill believes that the state of Indiana is making too much out of lowering the drinking age. He condones hall drinking rather than driving to Michigan bars and the potential traffic accidents it may cause. He advocates putting the emphasis on moderate drinking rather than age limit. 
Although life as an ND security guard may not be as intriguing as Cannon or as exciting as Kojak, Krill says he enjoys patrolling the road, checking on hall security personnel, and doing ambulance work. "I'm not looking for excitement. I'm satisfied with the mediocre, with just enough events to make life interesting." While working the night shift, Krill has had his share of interesting moments. 
"Although I had heard a lot about it, I hadn't seen any streakers on campus until one night , just as I turned off the lights of the squad car I looked up and saw a jaybird running around in sneakers just like that song they play over the radio. It really surprised me." Last fall Krill also tracked down a pair of streakers who tripped over some lines in their flight and ended up drenched in a mud puddle. 
"The guys were in real trouble since they had no means of identifying themsel­ves. They had no place to carry an lD card that's for sure," Krill smiled. 
"We've had cases of guys and _girls going swimming in the lake nude at night," Krill .said, harping on the dangers of swimming without a lifeguard. "We take them down to the office. They get embarrassed.'' Krill agreed that after such an experience, the offenders arc less likely to do it again. . . . 
The administratiOn bUJ!dmg can also be 
christie nerliny 
the highlight of a midnight patrol. Krill happened to look up on a routine check to see a guy "who I could tell had been really drinking" swaggering across a plank suspended from the dome 7<Jtto I 00 ft. above the ground. "I was frozen. I didn't want to yell for fear that I would distract him, so we had someone climb up the other side and bring him down." 
Student craftiness always keeps the security on alert. "I'm continually amazed at the way students arc able to put up signs and banners. They always seem to know when we aren't there," said Krill. He agrees it's like a grown-up game of cops and robbers. "We patrol all night. we arc confident that we arc doing a good job and the next thing you know you look up and there's a sign. It's not frustrating, it's funny, "Krill laughed softly. 
In dealing with students one must take in to account that they arc in the process of maturing, Krill emphasized. and his method in dealing with offenders is to "treat them like kids, not like the adults they should be." This docs not involve spanking but rather a talk with Mr. Pears. director of security. Krill praised Pears for his wise dealing with students. Only the case of serious offenses arc violators referred to the Dean of Students. 
"Some parents ship their kids to college just so they will grow up. They arc put together with peers who have been around more than they. In an environment like Notre Dame students grow up. I've talked with some students and they seem ready for the world." 
Krill discussed some ways that Notre Dame security could b-e improved. Although the -lighting on campus has helped, Krill would IikC' to sec more lights around the lake road and dctexcs placed on men's dorms as well. He docs not feel, however. that the security force should be increased from the prese-nt staff of ten 
"If you have many more officers. it would look like you are trying to show force," Krill said. "The students know they are here to study and I'd much rather wave hello than to chase after them for some little thing." 
With a philosophy like that the Notre Dame campus is in good hands with Sgt. Krill. 

r-6 
the observer Wednesday, April 21, 1976 
Cheerleade~ expand ~ fourteen members 
1 (continued from page I) or to the 1977 tryouts next spring, the student activities staff. Work I A new controversy would arise if The panel stated that this revision on the revision will begin as soon as 
··announced" cheerleaders did not must provide for outside judges, possible, according to Benesh. I make the squad a second time only. They would be selected by Interest students, faculty and staff I' even though they had been previ-members and as well as the I ousl_y s:tected by the proce~s Orientation meeting ~heerlead~r.s and both be involved 
I outlined m the cheerleaders constt-m the revtswn process. 
I tution. Lack of time in this t f S d Both Benesh and the other I semester to conduct another com-se or un ay members of the panel noted that I p\::te set of tryouts was a factor the option selected was not meant against this proposal. On Sunday April 25 at 1 P· m. · to be a criticism of the cheerleaders
I 
The panel also considered to l·he Campus Freshman Orientation themselves or those who had been
I 
uphold the selections made on Committee will hold a mandatory judges during the earlier tryouts. April 9. They acknowledged that meeting for all Freshman Orienta-Benesh agreed with Reid that they
I 
the 1976 cheerleading selection tion Hall representatives in Farley process was an improvement over Hall's basement. The purpose of Bike-a-thon slated 
tryouts in previous years, but that the meeting is to reveal plans for !laws still existed in the process next year's freshman orientation to bene.&l"t retarded 
and that these would be corrected schedule. I' before the scheduling of the 1977 Hall representatives are asked trvouts. This option was rejected to come to the meeting ready to The fourth annual "Ride a Bike <111 the grounds that it did not critique last year's orientation pro-for the Retarded" will be held this ans,,·cr the problems currently had, gram. The meeting will be short. Sunday, April 25, beginning at 1 
but only offered a solution forfuture If a hall has not selected an p.m. at Logan Center. \Tars. orientation chairperson, the hall Proceeds for the 25-mile ride will 
In addition to scheduling the oresident should make sure a go to the St Joseph County Council special tryouts for the two new ~presentative attends the meet­for the Retarded and the Indiana checrleading spots. the chosen ing. If there are any questions, Association for the Retarded Citi­proposal also calls for a revision of please contact the Student Gov­zens. the cheerleader's constitution pri-ernment otTice. Persons who wish to ride in the 
bike-a-thon must obtain pledges from sponsors for each mile ridden

SU needs student input, 
before the ride begins. Check points are placed along the route to mark the actual riding distance. Riders may begin the route at any

according to new director 
(nmtinued from page I) handled through the central ticket of these checkpoints.
and explain the various activities, oftice next year. 
Registrations for the event, whi­c\·ents and services offered by the Ricci and Ling concluded by ch is sponsored by the local chaptercommissions," he added. 
emphasizing the need for student of the Indiana State TeachersRicci is enthusiastic about next input for a successful Student Association, are being taken now.
vear and said, "We have a good Union and inviting those interested A "Bash" will be held in the~lpportunity for success. Last 
to get involved. Logan Center gym after the ride.
~·car's group (1975-76) did a good job. especially with the budget. They were left with a $41.000 debt 
Cinema '76 presents:
from the year before." "We came in with a budget 
FREDERICO FELLINI'S
surplus. We just bought some new equipment machines for the cam­pus press. Part of the excess will probably go towards the machin­








HAMARCORD"
es.·· he explained. Final figures on the Student Union budget for this school year will be published in the 
Wed. & Thurs.

final issue of the Observer. Student Union's fall schedule 

Engineering Auditorium 
includes: the Free University and four concert dates. All tickets for 
8 & 10 p.m. $1
Stud~nt Union functions will be should be commended for their wrong, not the individual judgesefforts to develop a selection involved. I think it's good that the process that is fair and just for faults in the process were caught 

everyone. early and that they will be Bracken commented, "In looking corrected early so that the system back I can see the flaws with the can be corrected entirely and all are 
process. The system as it stands is treated equally.". 
April 23,24,29,30, May 1 at 8:oo P.M. Stepan Center (Notre Dame) 
$2.50 General Admission 
$2.00 Students, Faculty & Staff For Reservations Call 284-4176 

THEATRE 
1975-1976 Our 10th Joint Season 
(Show Nights Call 283-7559 > 
Quick starts. Sure stops. Nimble-footed security in the style of the pros. PRO-Keds. 
Wear PRO-Keds Court King­
• 
Lace-to-toe design for firm, adjustable fit 

• 
Sturdy, long-wearing army duck uppers 

• 
Flexible shank 



NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 


Wednesday, A:..!::p.:....ri-'-1_21....:,_1_9_76____t_h....;.....;;ce__:;o_b_s_e_r_v_e.o.._r___7 

Pepsi-cola remains Russian novelty 
MOSCOW (AP) --Three years Ministry in Moscow. Pepsi, priced people per year. In June 1974 the company signed 
be in contrast to plans for the after the Soviet Union bought the at 41 cents a bottle, is sold now only In April 1973, when Pepsico a long-term cooperation agreement Russians' own soft drinks in the 
right to enter the Pepsi generation, on the resort-studded Black Sea president Donald M. Kendall sign­that covers joint development of 
next five years. The 1976-80 the American soft drink is still a coast and in limited quantities in ed a I0-year contract with the nutritional foods, processing of tea 
economic plan calls for a doubling rare commodity in the workers' Moscow. Soviets, he said he saw the country products and production of bever­in soft drink output, which amount: 
state. With a population of 250 million "in the long term as one of the ages, but not including Coca-Cola. 
ed in 1975 to 700 million gallons. At least three million bottles of and the Novorossiysk plant capa­greatest volume markets that we Balashov linked Pepsi growth in 
Pepsi roll off a West German-made production line at Novorossiysk on the Black Sea every month, and trucks loaded with the soft drink roar regularly around the country­side of southern Russia. 
But it's still a rare Russian worker who can regularly knock off a hottic of Ihe cola drink after a hard day fultilling the plan. 
"It's still like a souvenir drink to us." acknowledged Vladimir E. Bala~hov. who heads the drink department of the Soviet Food 
Observer names two for awards 
Executive Editor Gregg Bangs annottnl·ed last night that the first Obscr\'cr writing incentive awards were presented last week to Phil 
Cackley and Paul Waller. Cackley, a fre~hman from Hinsdale. IIi., rel·eived an award for his overall l'ovcrage of news events second ~cmcster. particularly his accounts of the Mock Convention. 
Waller. a junior from Belleville, Ill .. merited the award for the news story he wrote concerning the senior class election complications. 
The writing incentive awards have heen set up to award any member of the Observer news. fl•atures, sports and editorial de­partments. The award is deter­
mined once a week hv members of the Executive Editor,.s staff. 
Kre~kin. the internationally fa­m<HI" ml·ntali..,t. will dcscencl his p~~·dw on the Notre Dame audi­l'nl'l' at H p.m. this evening in Wa... hinglon llall. 
Kre~kin. who describes himself a~ a h~·ptT..,L'n"itist and a mental 11 itard. u"e~ the ingredients of 
conjuring. thought perception, tel-l'pathic phenomena, subconscious 
~l'm.itivity. suggestibility and humor to baffle participants and onlookers during his concerts. 
({iding the crest of contemporary interest in explorations of the mind and psychic phenomena, Kreskin has con1c into his own after nearly thirty years of developing his mentalist performance and "influ­encing other people's thought with his own." 
As a popular mentalist. Kreskin has performed in nightclubs. col­leges and special concerts on a 
NOTICES 

HAVING A PARTY? LOWEST PRICES ON KEGS & CASES & FREE DELIVERY. DAVE 277-0948 
RUGBY SHIRTS IDENTICAL SHIRTS AS THE CHEERLEADERS FOR $13.00 IDEAL FOR GIFTS. ALSO, FOOTBALL T-SHIRTS IN NAVY OR YELLOW FOR $3.50, 
N.D. SMC Council for the Retarded: 
Dance Wednesday 7:30 10:00, Any questions call Sue Maude 277·1182 or Jim Scott 1745 
Unsure of plans after graduation? Try Volunteer work. Drop in al Volunteer Services office (1.5 LaFor­tune) or call 7308 for info on the many volunteer projects open across the U.S, & Abroad. 
Will do typing. Experienced. Term papers, etc. Call 233-8512. 
Accurate. fast typing, Hours 8 :AM to 8PM Mrs. Donoho 232.0746 
STEREO COMPONents 20percenl­40percent discount. All quality name brands. RMS Audio 321 S. Main 288.1681 M F 12:00·6:00 
city at 60 million bottles a year, production statistically works out to one bottle for every four people per year. When a new plant opens before the end of the year at Yevpatoriya in the Crimea, there will be two bottles for every four 
have." 
Pepsi's sister beverage, Coca­Cola, was long scorned in Soviet propaganda as a symbol of the pleasure-seeking West. Now Coca­Cola has also made inroads into 
Russia. 

JEFF SMITH, a freshman from 3rd floor, north, won the 2nd annual Mr. Keenan Contest last night in Washington Hall. Before a crowd which exceeded 300, contestants participated in a talent contest and modelling of bathing suits and formal attire. 
"I wish Jeff the best of luck," said master of ceremonies Rick Thomas. "I think this year we'll win the Mr. Campus Contest. Also, Rin Tin Tin finally ot in." (Photo by Paul Cleven er) 

Mentalist Kreskin to psyche crowd 
national and international scale, in addition to conducting business seminars. He once practiced as a professional hypnotist in the psy­chology community. 
Krcskin has made national tcle­vision guest a11pearances in the past with such personalities as Johnny Carson. Mike Douglas,
Dinah Shore, Steve Allen. Merv Griftin and Phyllis Diller. Kreskin now has his own regular half-hour television series known as "The Amazing Kreskin." 
For skeptics in the audience, Kreskin has posed a standing offer of $20,000 to anyone who can prove 
he employs prearranged confect-crates in the audience to achieve 
his startling results. 
: • : : 




MOVIE BIDS
• 

<:LUBS AND ORGANIZATIONS WISHING TO.••SHOW A MOVIE NEXT SEMESTER MUST •
•
•

APPLY BY FRIDAY. APRIL 23. 
•
•

2nd FLOOR LaFORTUNE • Halls mav not snonsor movies. • 
................. ......~ ................... • • 
Linda's Lellers. dissertations spec­Ialists, typing at student rates 289 5193 
Typing professionally done thesis, dissertations, resumes, term papers. Barb 259 4894 
Typing 35 cents a page. Call Dan. 272 5549 
Typing wanled pick up and delivery 683·7759 
Sailors, openings for two experi­enced crew to help race winning 34 sloop on Lake Michigan, Racing at Michigan City most Sundays from May 15th to Labor Day. Call 234 1056 Mon Fri, 
LOST & FOUND Found girl's watch between Zahm and Keenan Monday 19 April. Call Tezza al 17 41 
Gold Wire rim glasses by takes over Easter lost. Call 288·0060 
FOR RENT 2 rooms $40 a month 233-1329 
Milliken Rentals 282-2089 233-5833. House or apartments available for June or Sept. 
Classified Ads 
For Summer Rental. Super 4 bedroom tully furnished house near Jeff Eddy. Washer. dryer. all utilities. $175, 234-1972 
Summer houses and rooms for rent . real close to campus. Furnished ridiculously reasonably. 233-2613 or 232 7263 
4 &6 Bdr. Houses for Sept. 1976. Good neighborhoods near NO reasonable rates, conlact Mr. Gatto 234 6688 
House J.people 150.00 & ull. 914 
Notre Dame 234-5646 2-7 bedroom ho"uses for 3 month summer renlals, All furnished. Call 288-6259 after 6 pm, 
FOR SALE 
Dual 1229Q changer -$180 call Len 289-8990 Less than 1 yr. old-excel­lent condition. 
1973 Fiat128 SL29,000 miles $1.300 call 277 ·2420 after 7 pm 
MAZDA 1973 RX3 34,000 Ml New Tires, air conditioning $1.000, Call 
the Soviet Union to Soviet deliver­ies of Russian champagne, cognac, vodka and wine to Pepsico for sale in the American market. 
Asked why Pepsi wasn't expand­ing more in the Soviet Union, he said: "It depends on there being a demand by Pepsico for our produc­tion." 
Balashov said the Russians will be paying the equivalent of $2.7 million for bottling equipment and the soft drink concentrate in the first five years of the I0-year contract. 
If production of the American beverage docs not expand. it will 
NOW OPEN 
KELLEY'S SPORTLAND 
~Th;;·;s·~···~ 
: difference!!! : 
: ,_,_,.EfOif : 
C T ()w., ]~ '"" •

• M A 
or fi!MIItnct • 

: DAT ••u~crn : : LSAT !
S...,llcl""' 

: GRE Volum~IIOus '-• • 
: GMAT ''""';''"..'' ! 
: Q(AT Cou•su 1~11 ort • 
: (pAT :
con•l:lly u~ltd 

: VAT loptiK•Iol•u lor : 
rtw•t•' of clUI •

: SAT 
ltuons ond lot u11 e

• FlEX of suppltmt~hry •
•: ECFMG  moltlllll ...h:slo•  • :  
:  '"""d lu•on•  :  
:  NAT'L MED BDS  :  

: NAT'L DENT BDS: 
••M:., (~ ••.:,.,:, R_:,,. ·: 
• pr1or to EJtam • 
.,.,"~~~~~~ • Spr.ng & Fell comp11rU 
~ ,p,LAT-LANU ;IIIII : Some coututl oH~red on :
i GOLF CENT~ER i i · · ~·~n·. c.:pu~· • • •i
... I 
INDIANAPOLIS 

~ · ··
... 
~ 

!I , ... 
... ~ 
~ ~ 

"NIGHT LIGHTED" 1J111! 
9 HOLE • PAR 3 GOLF COURS! ~ 
J.Drlvlng Range J8 Hole Miniature~ 
~ Open Dawn Til 10:00 PM ~ LOCATED US 33 AT IRONWOOD iltl 
~

I.., Call I 288-0033 I ~ 
II'! If Nn Ans Call 282-2366 
i

~171~ LINCOLN WAY EAST SO. BEND irJ1 
~,......,......................
~. 

• 6620 Groon~h"• Drov• :
..• 

tnd••n•pol,., lnd •6220 •. 13171 8-42-1267
..... ... . ..
: 

CHICAGO CENTER : • 13121 764-5151 • 
: ~ 






NlJ!: :

e 'j\ e 
: .,. 
e ... e 
• UlUCATIO,..Al CE,..TfA • 
~~~:,r;;,•,:;,':;~''!;',. • 
~'1" ..., --;';;;"',_."'; • ' IIIW e 
•• ..,.,,.., • "''"' ,, ~ ~·•·•• e•
............. . 
FOR MORE INFO CONTACT: 
MARY 6923 JOHN 1376 SAM 1600 
234-5939 evenings. 
10-speed Huffy Olympia bicycle $60 or best offer Dan 288-3025 
Under-Pioneer Car Stereo Casselle Player used 6 monthS, Auto reverse call Tom 3579, $60 
FIAT 128 4 door '73, as new. Call Fernando after 6 PM, 277-0188 
PERSONALS 
U, 

red-eyes are pink ralpher gets purple, The broad on the beach Says you're hung like a gerbil. Bonehead 
P.S. Up her shphinky with Hector­dinky 
Bonehead, Everybody knows You're a louse Nobody knows You're hung like a fieldmouse 
L.J. (2001 . A Hog Odyssey) 
PARTY AT DAVID BOSSY'S THIS SATURDAY NIGHT -CAMPUS VIEW CENTER 
lr h Wake Tix now on sale Wed, Fri., at Stud, Union Tix Office and Dinning Halls, 
The 1976 MBA Class and Fisher Hall congratulate Michael J, Paulius on his secret engagement and upcoming wedding this summer. Best Wishes! 
To T. 0, Grace So handsome of face 
You smell like a rose To offset our bows A warm loving friend Special without end This a good birthday wish From the duck, with a kiss Happy Birthday\ 'Quack-quack Deep!' 
Candles and rainbows are in order for H.C. Rm. 149! 
Julie Happy 19th SHOOSH! Can you dance! 
Mabell, this is my personal to Wis. for you. From the shores of SMC & your little buddy 
Ride-a-Bike for the Retarded. This Sunday, 2Sih. There'll be prizes, refreshments and Good times. 
-=8_____:_t.:....:h~e:__:o:...::b=--=-s~e:...::r'-v=--e.::::_:_r_______:__w:..:e~d~n.e~c!_~, ~ri 1 21, 1976 
Rocky Bleier: he keeps coming back 
by Patrick Cole 

A comeback can mean two things in the life of Robert "Rocky" Bleier. 
Last week. Bleier, star fullback for the World Champion Pittsburgh Stcelers, 1968 graduate of Notre Dame and Vietnam veteran came hack to visit. There were many d1anges for him to see. Most importantly. he was not just a number among the other 50,000 alumni. He came back to his alma mater as the 1976 Senior Class F,·llnw. 
"l was back two years ago also," !ilL' muscular athlete stated, "for tht· spring game. But from 1968 11 hL·n I graduated, there were many ,·h,mges in the landscape. Now thnc's the ACC and two new dorms, Grace and Flanner Halls." 
l:llcicr. a management major 11 hile at Notre Dame, lived in KL'L'nan Hall his freshman year, in Dillon Hall the next two years and in Sorin Hall his senior year. He believed that the students today arc basicallv the same: they think about the same things that a Notre Dame student would eight years ag<.l. He noted that many rooms ha\T been converted to suites unlike the doubles of which he only knew. 
"Nmv there are women at Notre Dame and students can have cars," hL added. "When I was here, one could not have a car until the \ccond semester of the senior \'l'ar. · Bleier noted the changes in the Notre Dame football program. "Obviously, the biggest change in the football program has been with the coaching staff," Bleier remark­ed. "When you have changes in the coaches, there are changes in the program's philosophy." 
The road to Notre Dame for Bleier began in Appleton, Wiscon­sin while attending Zavier High School. He earned letters in three sports: football, basketball and track. His senior year, he earned All-America honors in football and All-Wisconsin recognition in bas­ketball. 
Why did he choose Notre Dame? 
"Notre Dame was in an all-male surrounding," Bleier commented. "I like the cohesiveness among the student body. Notre Dame was not a large school, so you weren't looked upon as a number." 
Former Notre Dame Head foot­ball Coach Ara Parseghian, was an important int1uence in his decision. 
''I met Ara and he approached me in a straight. business-like man­ner. "Bleier said. "I knew that athletes get taken advantage of in other places, but I did not sense that here. Ara said a football grant-in-aid was essentially an academic scholarship. not an athle­tic scholarship. One's performance on the football field did not determine whether the scholarship was still in effect." 
So in the fall of 1964, Bleier came to Notre Dame. He played as a member of the varsity squad from 1965-67. He started at fullback and was team captain his senior year. 
Bleier has the distinction of playing on a National Champion­ship team in college and a World Championship team in the National Frotball League (NFL). He was on the field during the final minutes of the 10-10 tie with Michigan in 1966 when Parseghian chose to run out the clock rather than play to win. ·'The 1966 season was the high­light of my college career," Bleier admitted. 
After his senior year, Pittsburgh seasons later, Bleier was not in as good as any team," he said. drafted Rocky in the 16th round Japan but at Lambeau Field in 'The players--they must keep in and he made the team. However, Green Bay, Wisconsin. There last shape and sometimes we say to the United States Army drafted season, he gained a personal high ourselves, is it worth it? But these him also and he was enlisted into of 163 yards against the Packers. are things we have to face. We the infantry as a grenade launcher ·'That was my most memorable would like to be the first team to in December of 1968. He willingly achievement," Bleier mentioned. win the Super Bowl three times in a accepted the draft like thousands of other men and without bitterness. He was the only man in the infantry with a college degree. 
In fact, Bleier was the only professional athlete as well as football player to go into combat in Vietnam when he went in May of 1969. Little did he know that his duty in Southeast Asia would last for-only three months. He was wounded in both legs. A grenade nearly blew off his right foot. 
"I spent the remainder of my military service in a hospital." the Vietnam veteran told, recalling his experiences he wrote in his book, Fighting Back, published by Stein and Day last year. "I suffered a small firearms injury; a hand grenade exploded and injured my left thigh." 
After Vietnam was the comeback to professional football. "In 1970, I went back to the Steelers and was cut," Bleier said. "I was, how­ever, placed on the injured-reserv­ed list." 
In 1971, Bleier came back to the Steelers only to be cut once more. He was placed on the taxi squad. But in 1972, he got his break. He became a regular member of the Pittsburgh Steelers. By 1974, Notre Dame's Rocky Bleier is an unusual and inspiring success story. 

Bleier became a regular starter in ·'It was the best game in which I the Steelers' backfield. had performed. But no doubt For Bleier, it had been a painful being on a World Championship 
struggle from the hospital in Tok­team two years in a row is a most yo, Japan where he lay six years memorable achievement also.'' ago recovering from casualties Bleier looks forward to the 1976 
suffered in the jungles of Da Nang. Steelers' season. "At the begin-But he did not quit. And five pro ning of the seawn, our chances are 
Poseidon, TILCS among 'elite eight' 
by Rich Odioso Like the ship in the movie. it looked like Poseidon Adventure was about to go under for the final time. They had just blown a five-basket lead to trail SWAT 18-17 and their big man Bill Laimbeer was lying on his back after lo~ing a vicious battle with a basket stanchion. But unlike the actual Poseidon, Laimbeer was able to right himself and went on to lead Poseidon to a 22-20 heart-stopper and a place in tonight's Elite Eight quarterfinals of the Fifth Bookstore Extravanganza. Among the other teams advancing were tourney co-favorites TILCS and Average White Team. but Firin' Myron was an upset victim 21-18 at the hands of Act 5. Laimbeer was dominant force in the Poseidon-SWAT games. impressing the raucous S.R.O. crowd with 12 points (8 of 10 on field goals, 4 ur 4 from the line). 14 rebounds and 6 blocked shots. Po~eidon jumped to leads of 8-3, 11-8 at the half and 17-12 but then .a S\\ arrning SWAT press and some nifty scoring by Luther Bradley made It dose. In Fact, SWAT had a 20-19 lead. but Billy Sheehan missed a game-winning free throw and after that it was all Laimbeer. . Like a fine wine, Average White Team seems to get better w1th age. A WT rolled over White Heat 21-13, hitting a marvelous 60 percent from the field, almost unheard of at the Bookstore. Kurt Horton hit 6 of 8 and Kevin Dohertv went 7 for 12 as Billy Paterno was content to play a supporting ro(e in this one. . TILCS withstood a furious rally by Mo Fandsome to wm 21-14. Mo Fandsomc trailed 20-5 at one point but nearly pulled it out with nine straight baskets. Dave Batton topped a balanced TILCS attack with 7 points. Irate about published reports of his alleged shooting inaccuracy, 

John Dubenctzky has hit a blistering 9 for 18 in TILCS' last two contests. 
Firin' Myron and the Bad A's were caught napping early and it proved fatal to their title chances. Rusty Lisch hit 6 for 6 in the first half as Act 5 broke to an 8-0 lead and went on for a 21-18 triumph. Myron Schuckman scored 8 for the losers but was ineffective inside while Joe Montana and Tom Monaghan were unable to hit from outside on the gusty Stepan court. 
Lisch had no wind problems, hitting 9 hoops while Ross Christiansen added 6. 
The Nutmeggers continued their stealthy march towards the title with a 21-17 win over Kardiac 5. The Meyer brothers Mark and Mike combined for 13 Nutmegger points. 
The Marxists, representing the law school. hammer-and-sickled Boogie Fever 21-19. Tom Schoaf hit 9 and Brian McAuliffe went for 7. 
Paul Martin hit 8 baskets as Goat Ropers downed Rebel Yell 21-15. Rebel Yell was plagued by sloppy ball-handling, 29 percent shooting and its inability to contain the elusive Martin. 
In the day's biggest rout, Heils Hoops shot a miserable 23 percent as they fell to A and the 4 Holes. Dave Kuzmicz hit 9 to pace the Anal attack. 
TONIGHT'S SCHEDULE 
[all games at the Bookstore] 
Average White Team vs. the Goat Ropers at 4:45 --AWT is playing great team ball with good rebounding, a blistering fast break and outstanding shooting. Their team strength should offset the brilliance of Goat Ropers Paul Martin. RICK'S PICK--Average White Team, 21-16. 
Ass and 4 Holes vs. Nutmeggers at 5:30 --Nutmeggers is one of the tourney's unsung teams but they have already beaten Bruce Flowers and the Butcher Brothers. They have good outside shooting and play well as a team. Big names for A and the 4 are Dave Kuzmicz, a leading candidate for the Hoosier Award. and Steve Niehaus. RICK'S PICK--Nutmeggers 21-19. 
Poseidon Adventure vs. Marxists at 6: IS --Laimbeer is clearly the dominant force here but he does have some help in the form of Hump Charles and Jim Fritsch. Slimmed-down ex-All-America Greg Marx is the most noteworthy member of the balanced Marxists. "We have good outside shooting, that's how we have to win," Marx says. "We know Laimbeer is good; we'll just have to figure a way to stop him." RICK'S PICK--Poseidon Adventure, 21-17. 
TILCS vs. Act 5 at 7 --Batton, Dubenetzky, Dave Kelly, Billy Sahm and Tom Kirby is the potent lineup for TILCS. Dubenetzky is a big addition from last year's quarter-finalists. Rusty Lisch is the big gun for Act 5. RICK'S PICK--TILCS. 21-16. 
LAST NIGHT'S BOXSCORES TILCS 21 (Kirby 2, Kelly 4, Batton 7, Dubenetzky 3, Sahm 5); Mo Fandsome 15 (Lynch 2, Popovich 2, Connors 3, Polidori 2, Costello 5). Goat Ropers 21 (Stock 5, Jurkens 2, Martin 8, Conaty 4, Zipf2); Rebel Yell 15 (Burke I, Murphy 2. Thinnes 6, Humphreys 4, Henseler 2). Poseidon Adventure 22 (Fritsch 4, Charles 2, Laimbeer 12, Vangrinsven 2, Arminio 2); SWAT 20 (Knight 8, Knott 1, Tobias 3, Sheehan 2, Bradley 6). A and 4 Holes 21 (Niehaus 4. Kuzmicz 9. Labenski 1, Hogan 3, O'Brien 4); Heils Hoops 9 (lgoe 2. Peruchietti 1, Garcia 1, Balliet 2. Mokris 3). Average White Team 21 (Horton 6, Doherty 7, Paterno 3, Pohlen 1, Sullivan 4); White Heat 13 (Gary 2, Caron 3, Hyland 0. Klos 3, Jacobs 5). Marxists 21 (Marx 0, Schoaf 9, Kemp 4, Mooney 1, McAuliffe 7); Boogie Fever 19 (Powell 7. Budde 4, Spangler 2, Crudele 4. Askins 2). Act 5 21 (Christensen 6. Harrison 0, Lisch 9, Hilmer 3, Burke 3); Firin' Myroli and Bad A's 19 (Schuckman 9, Montana 2, Mayor 0, Ewald 3, Monaghan 5). Nutmeggers 21 (Howard 2, Mike Meyer 5, Mark Meyer 8, Powers 4, Pink 2); Kardiac 5 17 (Gorecki 4, Thompson 5, Daileader 5, McCoulough 3, Jagger 0). 
row. 
Without hesitation, Bleier attri­
butcs his steady performances to 
the Notre Dame football program. 
''I thought it was a good program,·· 
Bleier said. "I think Ara had a lot 
to do with it. The techniques I 
learned were beneficial when I got 
drafted by Pittsburgh." 
Bleier continued, "Many times an athlete •.·omes out of school, but he may not have the techniques and coaches to enable him to one day play pro ball. To play in the NFL, you can't be a 'dummy.' You have to have the experience and the intelligence. I think the players coming out of Notre Dame have an advantage over other players.'· 
During the off-season, Bleier is involved in an investment-banking firm in Pittsburgh, Aietllo-Zappala. lnc.Hc continues work with the tirm during the season on a part-time basis. Also he works with the Association for the Retarded Child­ren in Pittsburgh. 
So Bleier was back again. Back to Notre Dame as an alumnus and Senior Class Fellow and back as a Vietnam veteran. But what can a man say who was the only profes­sional athlete to be chosen among thousands and sent to fight in a war that could have ended his career or even his life? 
"Vietnam taught me to put my life in the right perspective," he emphasized. "One didn't know if he would make it to see his family again. In Vietnam, living was day to day." 
And Rocky Bleier's day to day journey from his crib to the backfield of the Pittsburgh Steelers is one of the most unusual but inspiring stories in the history of sports. 
Irish nine drop sixth in a row 
The Notre Dame baseball team heists Ferris State in a doublehead­er at 1 p.m. this afternoon on Kline Field. The Irish lost yesterday to Northwestern 12-9 to fall to 7-19 on the year. 
ND has lost six straight after dropping three at Illinois State and two at Western Michigan over Easter. Rick Pullano, Frank Fi­ascki and Bob Stratta have led a good Irish hitting attack, hut pitching woes continue to plague the Irish. 
The Irish are also home Saturday for a 1 p.m. doubleheader with Bethel. 






