
DASHING THROUGH THE SNOW-NO Students, despite heavy snowfalls and University policy, play a round of football on the North Quad. Photo by Debbie Krilich 

by Mike Towle 
tro-enteritis,'' Thompson
Staff Reporter explained. "Its symptoms, which include inflammation of the stom­
There is no campus flu epidemic ach and or bowel, are short in according to University Physician duration. It might best be des­Robert Thompson, despite the cribed as 24-hour flu, but lacks the frequent incidence of a viral ail­chills, fever, headache and coughment known as gastro-enteritis. 
which usually accompanies influ­"Since the week preceeding the 
enza." 
Pittsburgh football game, we have Thompson added that this recur­had a constant flow of students into rent sickness is not related to swine 
the infirmary suffering from gas-flu and should begin to decline in frequency as long as the cold weather persists. There has been an average of 5-12 such cases each week with the greatest number of incidents ordinarily reported in the early fall and spring. 

Thompson remarked that the 24-hour sickness is not only a result of many people living together in a close community, but also is attrib­utable to a lack of rest. 
"About SO percent of gettin2 over this viral infection is getting enough rest," he said. "In fact, lack of rest is a major contributor to the onset of this sickness which is rather abrupt." Thompson noted that another characteristic of the illness is its pattern of occurrence during each week. The number of gastro-enter­itis cases is generally greater in the first part of each week than towards the weekend. 
The sickness is not confined to the Notre Dame campus, but is also common in the South Bend area according to Thompson. The trans­mission of the virus is apparently enhanced by the size of the South Bend and Notre Dame commun­ities. 
Thompson advised that anyone experiencing the symptoms of gas­tro-enteritis, get plenty of rest and maintain a clear, liquid diet. After the sickness, one should return to ' the normal diet gradually over a period of 48 hours. 
"" 
Academic Council approves a.m.. exams 
by Kathy MlUs New Editor 
The Academic Council voted in 
yesterday's meeting to continue 
the current morning examination 
schedule and evaluate the policy at 
the end of next semester. 
By a vote of 27 to 21. the Council 
moved to table a Faculty Senate 
proposal to suspend the morning 
examination policy until a study of 
faculty and student reaction to the 
schedule could be made. The 
policy, announced last April by 
University Provost Fr. James T. 
Burtchaell, prohited evening 
departmentals and relegated to the 
8TT10 period. 
An hour-long discussion prece­ded the vote, and discussion cen­tered on student and facuity exper­ience with the new exam policy. The vote favored those who argued that an additional semester is necessary for adequate assessment of the policy, especially since the morning examination period will be lengthened next semester from SO to 80 minutes. 
"Obviously, this wasn't what I wanted to happen," commented Faculty Senate Chairman James Danehy. "The Faculty Senate plainly voted to have the new executive order of the provost suspended." Danehy added he does not think it is wise to test the policy to see how well it works. 
However, Danehy pointed out, Fr. Theodore Hesburgh, University president and chairman of the Academic Council, instructed the executive committee of the Council to arrange for a study of the policy in view of the amount of discus­sions on both sides of the issue. "Some of us tried to get this (the suspension) through and we lost one," Danehy continued, "but we look forward to participating in the evaluation of this executive order." 
James Robinson, member of 
both the Faculty Senate and the 
Academic Council, said he had no 
comment on the Council's action. 
Burtchaell could not be reached for 
comment. Patricia Tack, Student 
Government academic commis­
sioner, also was not available for 
comment. 
Tracy Kee, Farley Hall presi­dent, is working on a survey of student reaction to the 8 a.m. exams with Nancy Cox, Farley academic commissioner, and Mike Gassman, student body pres.ident. Kee said she was hoping the Councii would vote to suspend the .policy so "we would have time to discuss the pros and cons of it ... She also noted that professors were not really consulted on the decision to implement the morning exam 
policy. 
Kee said they are still planning 
to take the survey at the beginning 
of next semester. She added that a 
preliminary survey taken through 
the Hall Presidents' Council indica­
ted that the majority of students 
are not in favor of the morning 
examinations. 
Gassman remarked the system of having examinations in the morn­ing needs to "have a chance to run through for a while" and time to obtain faculty and student reaction. However, he said two problems with the current system is that "8 
a.m. is a bad time for a test" and the faculty must take care not to make the tests too long for the time periorl. 
Robin Lavender, student repre­sentative from the College of Science, said she voted against the motion to table the proposal but "in a way, it worked out alright" because Hesburgh arranged for the 
study. "I just didn't want to see the matter of studying it dropped," she added. 
(continued on page 3) 
SMC students retreatin& to warm quarters after 1 snowy landscape. 
Photo by Debbie Krilich 

,_· 
;.. 
.. 
... 
.. 
Friday, December 3, 1976
the observer 
On Campus Today 
friday 
10 am­
-exhibition, park chambers sculpture installations 5 pm isis gallery. ' 
12:15 pm -travelogue, "forestry in oregon", by kathy 
~ullivan, sponsored by biology department galvin auditorium. -' 
12:15 pm -advent mass, celebrated by rev. robert griffin Iafortune ballroom. ' 
1 -4:30 pm-wi~ter bike storage registration, gate 14, football stad1um. 
3:30pm -perspe~tive lectures, "in praise of cognitive t>mot1on~ , by 1srael scheffler, sponsored by philosophy department, library lounge. 
3:30pm -computer course, "pi/I", room 115, computer center. 
4:15 pm -symposium, "america as seen through the life and mu-;1c of woody guthrie", by donald richards, nd graduatt> stu.dent, sponsored by history department, Iafortune rathskellar. 
5:15 pm -mass and dinner, bulla shed. 
6 pm -reception, international students library auditor­ium. ' 
7 pm ~ dinner and dance, ladies of nd, music by eddie Jarrett, elks club. 
7 'land 
-film, "four musketeers", sponsored by student 11 pm union, engineering· auditorium, $1. 
7:30pm -hockey, colorado college at nd, ace. 
8 pm -dramatic performance, "a delicate balance" directed by diana hawfield, sponsored by nd/sm~ theater, o'laughlin auditorium, $2 for students. 
8:30pm -quickie, $.50 one way, $.75 all night. 
saturday 
8 am -test, law school admission test engineering auditorium. -' 
10 am --exhibition, park chambers sculpture installations, · 5 pm isis gallery. 
12:15 pm-advent mass, celebrated by rev. robert griffin, Iafortune ballroom. 
1 pm -basketball, valparaiso at nd, ace. 
6:30pm -dinner, madrigal dinner, regina north, smc. 
7, 9 and -film, "four musketeers", sponsored by student 
11 pm union, engineering auditorium, $1. 
7:30pm -hockey, colorado college at nd, ace. 
7:30pm -. meeting, society for creative anachronism "decline and fall of practically everybody", rath: skellar. 
8 pm -performance, "a delicate balance", o'laughlim auditorium, smc. 
'sunday 
10 am­-exhibition, park chambers sculpture installation',
5 
pm isis gallery. 
12:15 pm -advent mass, celebrated by rev. robert griffin Iafortune ballroom. ' 
4 pm -meeting, alpha phi omega, keenan hall basement. 
4 and -concert, advent and christmas choral concert 
8:15 pm sponsored by music department, sacred heart church. 
6:30 pm -dinner, madrigal dinner, regina north, smc. 
7 pm -meeting, cila, all invited, room 117, haggar hall. 

nghts are resPrvt>d 
r*The Observerl 
Night Editor: Tom O'Neil1 Ass't. Night Editor: Katie Kerwin, Bob Brink layout Staff: Rosemary Mills, 
Editorial layout: Pat Hanifin Features layout: Tim O'Reilet 1 
Windjammer-Handsome stylin 
Sports layout: Tony Pace 
at a sensible price. 
Typists: Nancy Cueroni, Mary 
McCormick, Stefanie Urillo, 
a
1_ _ Hair design 
Morey Blinder 
EMT: Terri Harlan ne for the sexes 
Day Editor: Jean Pawley 
Copy Reader: Tom Byrne 
Ad layout: Pat Russell 
WitWiamme.r 
-•, •,
~ Phot9g~ap_h~r~ .O~QQie .Kr:ilic) 
'637 LWW SO. BEND PH 232·6622 
Gilmore's mother asks courts to postpone son's execution 
SALT LAKE CITY (AP) -Attorneys representing the mother of con­victed murderer Gary Gilmore asked U.S. Supreme Court Justice Byron R. White and Utah state courts yesterday to postpone Gil­more's execution. · 
Bessie Gilmore of Milwaukie, Ore., has said she opposes capital punishment and does not want her son to die. But Gilmore, who says death is better than a lifetime behind bars, suggested earlier this week that persons trying to save him should "butt out." 
Gilmore has persuaded Utah officials to let him die and is scheduled to go before a firing squad at sunrise Monday, which should make him the first person executed in this country in nine years. 
The request to White was made by Anthony G. Amsterdam, Stan­
. ford law school professor who said he had been retained by Mrs.. Gilmore. 
A Salt Lake City attorney, work­ing with Amsterdam, Richard Giauque, filed petitions in the Utah Supreme Court and in the lower court where Gilmore was tried. 
The petitions; seek a stay of execution from each court so the attorneys could file a petition for a writ of certiorari with the U.S. Supreme Court. That action would seek a review of the Utah Supreme Court's Nov. 10 order withdrawing a previously granted stay of execu­tion for Gilmore. 
The Utah Supreme Court with­drew the stay after a personal appeal from Gilmore, who has fired the two court-appointed attorneys who obtained the stay against his wishes. 
Giauque also said he planned to file a petition in U.S. District Court. A hearing was scheduled for 2 p.m. today. 
"The need for a stay of execution ... is obvious," Amsterdam told White. "Such stays are commonly grarated in death cases. Indeed, the only t ·:tor that makes this applica­
•ion unusual is petitioner's asser­tion that he wishes to be execu­ted." 
The request said Gilmore's 
desire must be weighed against procedural safeguards in the Con­stitution. 
White, who represents the court in urgent matters for the lOth U.S. Circuit that includes Utah, planned to refer the matter to the full court for consideration. A decision did not seem likely before the court's weekly conference today. 
Mrs. Gilmore is reported bedrid­den with arthritis. She has been unable to visit her son at the prison, but letters written by Gilmore to his girlfriend this year referred to his mother warmly. 
T ht> Ob,PrVt'r "puhl1~ht>d Monday through I ndav and WPt>kly dunng tht> ~ummer se~~um. PX< Ppt dunng thP exam and vac a tum pPnod~ The Oboerwr 1~ publ1,hed by ~tudent' of the Un1wr"tv of Notre Dame and St Mary's CoiiPge Subscnpt10ns mav bP purrhawd for $20 pPr year ($10 pt>r ;pmestt>r) from The Qb.,er­wr. Box Q. NotrP Dam!', Indiana 46556 SPtond clas' po;tagP pa1d, Notre Dame. lnd1ana 46556 
The Observer 1s a member of the Associated Press All reproduction 
Attorneys representing other opponent& of the execution also 
indicated· action was imminent. They met privately yesterday at the office of American Civil Liberties Union (ALCU) lawyer, Jinks Dab­ney of Salt Lake City, who predict­ed the U.S. Supreme Court would view the situation as "a circus." 
Attorneys for other convicts on Utah's death row also have indicat­ed plans to intervene, as has the ACLU. 
Warden Sam Smith of the Utah State Prison said he was attending to details in preparation for Gil­more's ~xecution by firing squad at 
7:37 a.m. MST Monday. That execution time, decreed Wednes­day by 4th Distrect Court Judge Robert Bullock after the state pardons board declined to lessen 
SUNDAY MASSES 
MAIN CHURCH 
5:15p.m. Saturday Rev. Robert Griffin, C.S.C . 
9:30 a.m. Sunday Rev. James Flanigan, C.S.C. 
10:45 a.m. Sunday Rev. Joseph W. Hoffman, C.S.C. 
12 :15 p.m. Sunday Rev. William Toohey, C.S.C. 
Vespers will be at 7:15 p.m. in Uldy Chapel. The celebrant will be Rev. Joseph W. Hoffman, C. S.C. 
Notre Dame's 
ERA OF ARA 
Tom Pagna and Bob Best 
Will Be On The 
SECOND FLOOR BOOKSTORE 
To autograph copies and discuss the book 
SATURDAY MORNING 
9:00 -10:00 only 
the penalty, is less than five 
months after the slaying of which 
Gilmore was convicted. 
If carried out. it would make Gilmore the first person executed in the United States since 1967. a Texas murderer, Robert White, 30, is scheduled to die four days later, but his attorneys have appealed to the U.S. s·upreme Court even though White says he wants the 
.execution carried out. 
Under Utah law, condemned persons choose between the firing squad and hanging, and tradition has seen those choosing the firing squad strapped into a wooden armchair with a hood on their heads. 
But Gilmore· told Bullock. "I don't want a hood on my head. I'd like to stand and not wear a hood... 


Academic Council votes to continue morning exams 
(continued from page 1) 
Kathleen Riordan, student rep­resentative from the College of Business Administration, said she also voted not to table the proposal. However, she said she understands that the Council "just wants more feedback.'' 
In another action, the Academic Council approved a proposed amendment to the Academic Man­
• ual increasing the size of the Faculty Senate to 53 members. One of the new Senators will be elected by and from the ROTC staff and two by and from retired emeriti faculty. This recommendation now goes to the University's trustees. The item on the agenda to revise the Academic Code's definition of "academic good standing" was withdrawn for later consideration. The Council also elected five faculty members to serve on its executive committee. They are Frederick Crosson, O'Hara profes­sor of philosophy; Isabel Charles, dean of the College of Arts and Letters; Sr. John Miriam Jones, assistant provost; 0. Timothy O'Meara, Kenna professor of mathematics; and John Borkowski, professor of psychology. Hesburgh in addition appointed three members to the committee. These are Br. Leo Ryan, dean of the College of Business Admini­stration; Fernand Dutile, associate professor of law; and Albin Szew­czyk, professor of aerospace and mechanical engineering. The two ex-officio members of the ten-member committee are Burtchaell and Fr. Ferdinand Brown, associate provost. 
Hesburgh also named two obser­vers to attend the meetings of the executive committee. hey are Rob­ert Gordon, vice-president for ad­vanced studies, and Student Gov­ernment Academic Commissioner Pat Tack. 
Burtchaell delivered his "state of the campus' address to the Aca­demic Council, noting that it will appear in tis entirety in a forth­coming issue of Notre Dame Report. 
Very Personal 
Send your Christmas loue uia an Obseruer Classified 
... 
··.;. .\ 
Friday, December 3, 1976 
Holiday events set 
by Michelle Leahy Staff Reporter 
A variety of activities are plan­ned to celebrate the holiday season at St. Marv's, beginning tonight at 10:4S with-"Christmas on Ice" in the ACC ice rink. 
The event is cosponsored by the 
Notre Dame and St. Mary's junior 
classes, and is free to those who are 
in costume. For others, the admis­
sion is SO cents. 
Festivities continue on Sunday, when the freshman and junior classes will decorate the Christmas 
Connally favors TV executions 
SAN ANTONIO, Texas [AP] 
Former Texas Gov. John B. Conna­lly says the execution of convicted prisoners should be nationally tele­vised to serve as a deterrent to crime. 
"I just happen to believe the death penalty is a deterrent and the more dramatically it can be demon­strated, the more dramatic is the deterrent,'' Connally said in a radio interview Wednesday night. 
Connally said that if death row convicts are not executed, the should be imprisoned until their natural deaths. 

• 
~w1ns, 

can 
win! 
Whenever the Irish win a home basketball game, all 
the ticketholders to that game win Real Onion RingsTM 
at McDonald's: · 
It's McDonald's way of thanking Irish fans for cheering 
the team on to a victorious '76-'77 season. 
Buy your basketball ticket today at the ACC. Every ticket or pass from a Notre Dame home basketball victory wins you Free Real Onion Rings at McDonald's. Just show your pass or ticket within 48 hours of the game at any participating McDonald's. 

nald"s
• I® of Mic:hiana We do it all for youQl) 
To really ring in a victorious Irish basketball season. 
Limit one per ticket or pass. 
Cash value 1/20thl!. 
Tree in LeMans Hall, starting at l 
p.m. Refreshments will be provid­
ed by the Alumni Office. A mass for the junior class will be held at 
10:30 Sunday night in Stapleton Lounge.
On Tuesday, the Notre Dame Glee Club will serenade the resi­dence halls beginning at 10:30 p.m. The Animal Walk, a tradition of the junior class. will be held next Wednesday starting at 8:45 p.m. when the juniors will congregate in the Snack Shop. The ceremony involves a procession to every floor of each hall, in which participants furn the stuffed animals that each student has placed outside her door in a direction not facing the Church of Loretto. Faculty, students and adminis­trators are all invited to Thursday's Christmas Banquet in the dining hall. To reduce confusion, there will be four half-hour seatings. beginning at 4:30p.m. The dinner will be followed by a dessert in the
Snack Shop and a Christmas Mass._____________,. 
1 at 6:30 in Stapleton Lounge. 1 anywhere on either the Notre Dame The schedule will be highlighted 1 or St. Mary's campuses. The by the Christmas Bazaar starting sophomore class will sell pictures ' next Tuesday and continuing for of Santa for SO cents each and the 
three days. The affair will be freshmen will sell candy canes. 
situated in LeMans' lobby and will The bazaar will also offer a 
feature booths sponsored by each variety of homemade articles for 
class. The seniors will sell mistle-sale. such as leather belts and 
toe, while the juniors w.ill sell Christmas tree ornaments. In addi· 
Christmas stockings filled with tion. popcorn balls will be ~old by 
candy, which will be delivered LeMans Hall. 
the observer 
Vance likely 
to succeed 
Kissinger 
PLAINS, Ga. (AP) _ President­~teet Jimmy Carter has selected Cyrus Vance to replace Henry A.
f Kissinger as secretary o state, sources close to Carter said early
today. Vance is a former deputy under­secretary of defense in the Johnson 
administration and  was  a  ranking  
foreign  policy  adviser  to  Carter  
during the campaign.  

Carter was scheduled to an­nounce the Vance nomination at a news conference here this after­noon. He also was to announce the appointment of Atlanta banker Bert Lance as his budget director. 
Vance was the president-elect's house guest ~ uesday night, a visit that stirred speculation that Vance would be named either secretary of state or secretarv of defense. 
Vance's nomination is subject to Senate confirmation. 
the observer 
Ford's brother ·dies in automobile crash 
dent was a college student, does
LEBANON, Tenn. [AP] -Leslie 
not plan to attend the funeral, the
Henry King, President Ford's half­
White House said. The service wiii
brother. was legally drunk when 
be conducted Saturday in Cooke­
he was kiiled yesterday in the 
ville, Tenn., where King lived. 
head-on-collision of his car and a 
King and Ford were sons of
truck, state officials said. 
Leslie L. King. Ford's mother and
King. 53, was driving the wrong 
the elder King were divorced in
way on Interstate 40 at the time of 
1915 when Ford was 2.
the crash. . A routine test by the Tennessee 
Ford's name originally was Les­
Highway Patrol of the blood alcohol 
lie L. King Jr., but it was changed
in King's body registered 0.14 
to Gerald R. Ford Jr. when his
percent, said Jim Henderson, the 
mother remarried.
state Safety Department's inform­
The accident which claimed
ation director. Under state law, a 
King's life occured five miles west
reading of 0.10 percent is consid­
of Lebanon, near the intersection of 
ered legally intoxicated. 
Interstate 40 and Tennessee I 09. 
Henderson said there were 12 
The driver of the truck, Billy
fifths of wine and liquor in the car 
Hudson, was not injured.
and an empty half-pint of scotch 
King, who owned an auto parts
whiskey on the floor. 


store in Cookeville, was alone in
Ford. who did not know his 
the car.
half-brother until the future presi-
Leonard Nimoy to speak 
Actor Leonard Nimoy, who star­fiction television series "Star •• 
red as Mr. Spock in the science Trek" and was nominated for three successive Emmy awards, wiii speak in Stepan Center on Tuesday at 7:30. •• Admission for the event, which is sponsored by the Student Union, is SO cents. As an added attraction, • the science fiction film The Day the Earth Stood Still will be shown. After appearances in several •• ftlms, Nimoy was spotted in an ' episode of "The Lieutenant" by producer Gene Roddenberry, who,.. cast him in the role of the • half-human. half-Vulcan science officer of the starship Enterprise. Since the demise of the series, he •• has appeared in several plays and numerous films, as well as in the series ''Mission Impossible.''

All THE PRESENTS IN THE WORLD CAN'T SHOW YOUR FEELINGS AS WEll AS AN OBSERVER 
CHRISTMAS CLASSIFIED 
1 0 words for $1 .00 




We take off~·· :.', and put'on lots ofextras everywhere we fly. 
Whenever you take off on Continental, we'll take off 28% from the cost of a regular round­trip Coach ticket to all our mainland cities with our Economy Excursion Fare. It's a great way to keep your money in your pocket. 
Then sit back and watch Continental put on a show. 
We've put the Pub on our wide-bodied DC -tO's, with electronic Pub Pong games and free popcorn. Plus exclusive specially condensed double feature films, old-timtr'newsreels and your favorite-animated cartoons. You can also put on the feedbag for only a dollar with our Good Times Snacks. 
On our spacious, wide-look 72Ts you can put on your headset and enjoy the free stereo entertainment. There's overhead storage plus a middle seat in Coach and Economy that folds down when unoccupied so you can relax or spread out the books. · · 1 
Call Continental or your Travel Agent and ask for our 28% Economy Excursion Fare. 
Continental will provide informati.on regarding specific nights and number of seats available. Purchase your ticket at least 14 days prior to depanure, and stay 7 to 30 days. Our 28% discount applies from September 16, 19'76 to January 31, 19'77. Fares and savings subject to change without notice. The Coach Pub is available on all Continental OC-tO's excluding-Hawaii through service. 
CONTINENTAL AIRLINES 
The Proud Bird with the Golden Tail. /~ 
. ·.-.'·.".'+t,l
' .. • .. -r-~ ·. 
-------------------------------------------------------~--~~.-~--·..--~----~----------~~------~~ 
singa1ong 1u n K!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~ 
~ 
Box Q, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 Phones: (219) 283-8661 [ND] (219) 284-5365 [SMC] 
The Gift of Time 
EDITORIAl BOARD Thomas O'Neil Editor-in-Chief Dati; Sanchez Managing EditOr 
joe gill 
\ 
"*The Observer · an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's 
The Observer is published by students of the University of Notre Dame and St Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions and letters are the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and letters are encouraged to promote the free expression of varying opinions on campus. 
Business Manager Tom Fronczak Advertising Manager Mike Miller Photo Editor Tony Chifari Production Manager Martha L. Fanning 
Chris Smith  Asst. Managing Ed.  The final three weeks of the first  
Gregg Bangs Val Zurblis Pat Hanifin Bob Mader Maureen Flynn Marti Hogan  Executive Editor Executive Editor Editorial Editor Exec. News Editor Campus Editor St. Mary's Editor  semester are paradoxically three of the most beautiful religious weeks of the year, with the season of advent and the spirit of giving culminating on Christmas day, and also three of the worst academical·  
Don Reimer Tim O'Reiley Fred Herbst  Copy Editor Features Editor Sports Editor  ly, with tests, assignments and papers culminating during finals week.  
Everywhere you look, there are  

songs proclaiming holidays in the
Friday, December 3, 1976 
snow, bells chiming in the streets, children anxiously awaiting the arrival of Mr. Claus. Everywhere you look, the decorations are hanging as reminders. Christmas cards are arriving in the mail. people are joyfully proparing for
Parietals Case Can, 
the coming of the Lord. Every­-vhere, that is, except on a college :ampus, where students seem too busy studying and working dil­igently to notice.
Sl1ould Be, Appealed 
Here at Notre Dame, the two 
Dean of Students James Roemer's address to the HPC Tuesday night raises three major questions about the suspen­sicm of four freshmen in October. Why is there confusion about what rights the four students waived? Are there grounds for appealing Roemer's decision? Was the penalty really too severe? 
Roemer claimed Tuesday that he neither asked for, nor received, a waiver of the students' right to appeal to the University Appeals Board. Merely those rights useful only in a University Judicial Board hearing were waived. However, The Observer learned from sources close to the case that the students and Judicial Coordinator Bob Bode (who entered the case after the waivers were signed) all understood that the only way to appeal the case was up the administrative hierarchy to Bro.· Just Paczesny, Fr. James Burtchaell and Fr. Theodore Hesburgh. 
We reported three weeks ago that this was the only appeal left. According to Roemer we reported incorrectly. This is possible--we po sometimes err. Yet Roemer never contradicted our report until last Tuesday even when he discussed the case with our Editor during informal meetings after the story was published. Further, our sources reconfirm their 
' original stories. The four students and the Judicial Coordinator may have misunder­stood the waivers, but why did Roemer ..._wait so long to correct the misunderstand­ing? In any case, recourse to the Appeals Board is still possible. But Roemer claims that there are no grounds for ·appeal~ According to du Lac (Roemer's "Bible") the case could be appealed on the claim either that there is new evidence or that there was ''abuse of discretion.'' No one is claiming to have any new evidence. Roemer claims that "abuse of discretion" means only personal prejudice or handing out a penalty beyond the Dean's power 
(e.g. flogging). 
But clearly Roemer used his own discretion to decide how serious the offense was and again in deciding what penalty to give. If he deemed the offense more severe than it was, and if he gave too harsh a penalty, then he abused his 
~ 
:::> 
m 
en 
w 
z 
0 
0 
c 
IJHR£HAV5 
AU 77-1& FI.IJIIHS 
ecw&'! 7IIE t.£64cr 
()=A 7/Jl/P 15 COM-"A~~ POST FOR EI?IC SliVMt!P'G FEf(Jltc IMAGINATION. 
f 
aspects of the season really don't
discretion. 
jive, probably because it is some­Roemer counters by claiming that a what difficult to care for your complaint about the severity of the roommate or friend on the eve of an 
Emil exam or when writing and
sentence is not grounds for appeal. In 
typing ten-page papers due the
effect he depends on an analogy with the 
next day. But even so, the spirit of 
criminal courts; there the judge's sentence 
the Christmas season is such that it
is not grounds for appeal. But, as the should not be lost merely because Administration never tires of reminding of location or workload. There us, the disciplinary proceedings at Notre must be some way to forget the 
books and prepare for the Lord's
Dame are not a court. ''Abuse of 
coming. There must be....
discretion" is not specifically a ground for 
Perhaps decorations are needed.
appeal in the criminal courts. Further, the 
You know--·"Deck the halls with
proc¥ures here specifically give the boughs of holly." Maybe a students the right to appeal the penalty Christmas tree (an artificial one, of alone directly to Hesburgh. course: the Administration 
But was the penalty so severe as to Scrooges have banned real trees 
because they are fire hazards)
constitute ''abuse of discretion''? Roemer 
would do it, along with red ribbon,
told the HPC that "drop-kicking the 
ornaments, candy canes, and holi·
parietals concept and combining it with 
day music. And for those men on 
drinking violations" would merit suspen­campus who aren't "nerds," a sion. From what we have learned from our little mistletoe might even be nice. sources Roemer thought this to be the But then again, this would all 
cost money, and more importantly,
case. 
waste precious and valuable time
It does seem reasonable that staying for 
that could be used to study.
several hours into parietals period is worse 
How about going Christmas car­
than staying only five minutes. But no such 
oling in South Bend? A few
distinction appears in the rule. Roemer 
Christmas songs sung in unison byagain used his discretion, as shifting from snow-covered studertts in warm 
merely being ''an enforcer of the rules and 
regulations" (as he told the HPC) to comm en tary!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! adding to the rules as he thought best. Granted, we cannot and should not have mandatory penalties for all violations, but 
The OSHA that
the current rules are so vague that administrators can and do shift back and forth at will from legalistic "thou-shalt­nots" to claims of parental concern. 
Stole Christmas 
The penalty was too harsh for the 
offenses the four were charged with--over .._.._.._.._..__._pat han if in 
drinking, sleeping into parietals hours, 
In the great tradition of Ebenezer The fact that students had
and making enough noise to get caught. 
Scrooge and the Grinch, Dean of Christmas trees in dorms for years
This was all that was admitted, charged Students James Roemer has de­without causing fires has not and proved; any suspicions or rumors creed that you will have to make do stopped the Central Committee obviously should not count. If the case was with artificial Christmas trees in from protecting us from ourselves. 
the dorms because the natural kind 
decided by rules, the rules were distorted. I wonder, then, why they stopped 
could cause fires. Roemer is follow­with banning natural trees. No one
If it was decided by "parental" authority, 
ing the recommendation of a group seems concerned about the ever­
it amounts to child abuse. Since the 
calling itself "the OSHA Central green advent wreath topped withdecision was made by Roemer at his Committee of the University." The candles sitting in the wooden 
discretion the students can claim "abuse last "central committee" I heard interior of Sacred Heart Church. of discretion'' and the case should be of is part of the Soviet Communist But in future years we may see Party but the local one is apparent­many other "dangerous" Christ­
heard by the Appeals Board. 
ly a branch office of the federal mas customs banned by Dean or
All students here should be concerned 
Occupational Safety and Health bureaucrats:
with this case. If these four students were 
Administration which sent out a Singing Christmas carols will be
mistreated, it could happen to anyone. similar national order a couple of 
banned as too noisy and because 
winter coats, along w1th hot choco­
late and doughnuts afterwards, 
would do much to raise the holiday 
spirits. And if things get boring. 
there's always Farley or Lewis for 
warmth and shelter. 
But again, this would also take time, and when preparing for final exams, it is essential that the hours be measured and the minutes be conserved. 
Why not buy a gift for a roommate or close friend. in ap­preciation for their friendship dur­ing the semester? If he or she is tired of merchandise marked with the NO emble.m. there is alwavs a bus or car available to go ·into towna dn shop. Certainly. a small gift. so characteristic of the Christ­mas season, would go a long way in cementing relationships and show­ing those you love that vou do indeed love them: · 
But this. too. would cost moncv. and after all. who has the time to go Christmas shopping anyway? Time is so damned important around here; there are certain hours allotted for eating. sleeping. and especially for studying. and God forbid that these hours should be disrupted. God forbid. for time is the almighty tool that spells the difference between an ··A'· and a "B", an extra hour of sleep as opposed to an extra hour of studying. 
But wouldn't it make a great gift? Wouldn't five or ten minutes to a friend in need, to the guy across the hall, to the kid you haven't spoken with since last October be a wonderful and valu· able gift? Wouldn't the giving of something that is most precious to you be the perfect way to celebrate Christmas, here while still on campus? 
A warm smile and ten minutes, ten precious, beautiful minutes of conversation and support say more than any decoration or song could ever say. Why not say it? Why not make time your gift to others, and have a merry, merry Christmas? 
Today. 
IT151/AIQ) 70 114/16/NE JUVE IN 
fAJIJ6HI~t4/fTI/OVTB.J.EWI. J.IE 
KNiiAI fJAL.4AICE. HE~ FORM. ANOCAGIGPRJN6, HIS LOVE 1/FFAIR.tmH VIIJIUJNT; IIJA5~1UTH f./JVt"./IUlJ.'.It:I'I.'.Z 
THAT11/(JVIJ)1/A'.Eu:urM!l;v 
AL£J'ANJE!e
,­
MJ~-71JOIIY7HCIIH!eiKXI5& 
64KPeN IS fflJlEN ANO IIJ('J(W 
IN 51t£NCE. 11HJ CAN MEASUI?& 
7N& 6tfeATNE$ OF A 51N6tc ft/){IJ!R?JINP/U-{()/UitL/?£M&M8ER 
~ THE !SNJtUSHAV!iFlf..IB)1115 71NY IKU liEFI?A611£ liWt.6 IT CNCE CONTAINEO? 
f 

o. 
carolers might catch cold. OSHA might follow the lead of the Chicago consumer commissioner who has just banned rubber squeak toys because the squeaks are too loud. Hanging stockings on chim­neys will doubtlessly be banned as a fire hazard and some committee will have to keep us from eating too much Christmas candy. Perhaps the Central Committee will prohibit , sending Christmas cards so we will · not get writer's cramp or clog the 
mails. 
We could probably live with all 
this. But what will the children 
think when we have to tell them 
they will get no presents this year 
because OSHA has declared 
Santa's sleigh unsafe and clitnbing 
down chimneys unhealthy? 
---------------------------~-------~-----------~ 

the 0 bS~e~r~v~e~rc______F_r_id_a...:.y...:.,_D_e_ce_m_be_r_3_,_1_9_7_6
6 
letters to a lonely God 
The Man~-Splendoured Thing 
Reverend Robert Griffin 
She was a lovely, sweet thing; I could tell else I'll die. If you don't help me, there's him out of trouble?" either felt better, or stopped being afraid? 
that, though I had never met her; though nobody else." Love told her she must listen Promising was the easiest thing I did in When I was unable to give her attention,all I knew of her was her voice on the to him. Love can do everything. She really those halcyon days of my Messiahship. 
she wrote letters to the Bishop announcing 
phone, and her words told me of her care believed this; she had heard it in church. "Your honor," I said, "I promise." that giving the
she was up Catholic 
for a troubled, wounded, selfish, bullying, Priests really know a great deal about love. Thus began my troubled stewardship of Church; she was God for
renouncingtyrannical friend. She never said that her I was once a priest who knew a great deal the life of the unfortunate Richard. Two having priests so neglectful of the flock. Of friend was a bully or a tyrant; she spoke about love. Those were the years when I months later, he got into a fight over all my fallen sparrows, only the unloved only of his wounds and his suffering. She knew so much about love that love had me money with two men who beat him up and waif was lifted, through the help I couldcould never forget his wounds and his living on a Messiah complex. I was a little sent him to the hospital. The doctor give him, onto the strength and flight of his 
suffering. She could never forget his more than ten years ordained, and I would patched up the head wounds, and hoped he own sure wings.wounds and his suffering; he wouldn't let tackle anything. Was there an unloved waif would recover; but there were other her forget. "You must help me," he said, from the streets of Boston needing family? wounds, inner wounds, the doctor did not As I mentioned before, she was a lovely, "or else I'll die. If you don't help, there's Send him to me, and let me play the father. notice. Those wounds festered internally; sweet thing; I could tell that, though I had nobody else.'' So she became his nurse, his Was there a faculty wiaow in need of and within a week, Dick had peritonitis. never met her. I wanted to tell her: maybe wound-dresser, his slave, because she was sobriety? Send her to me, and let me play Three days later, he died. it's true that love makes the world go too kind and loving to know any better. the son until whiskey wouldn't be needed, There were two mundanely transcendent 'round; certainly it's a many-splendoured From hearing her talk of him, I knew and need never again apply. Was there a circumstances about Dick's dying which thing, and can do everything. I wouldn't better, and I hated the petty tyranny that wretched girl from the streets who got his widow and I clung to as comforts--very want to knock love, not in the Advent uses kindness to establish a bondage. drunk and threw eggs at a convent until slight comforts, indeed--that gave kind of a season approaching Christmas; but I also 
"Love is not enough," I wanted to say. she got arrested? Let me educate her into dignity to the death: in his last hours, Dick should have said: Love does not make But, of course, she knew better than that. innocence until she hates eggs and loves thirsted unmercifully and was denied commitments it cannop keep. It does not "Love makes the world go 'round," she convents and admires nuns more than the water; and like Jesus, he was also a make rash promises. 
would have said. "Love is a many­street people who get her drunk. There carpenter. These symbolic accidents made "Trust me, and I'll do good things for 
splendoured thing, and it conquers every­wasn't a bird with a broken wing that I ever us try to see if Dick's death could have you, even if to make you happy means, to thing." There are times when love can't do heard of that I didn't try to grow new wings been redemptive. To tell the truth, I am leave you to yourself," writes Rod anything but wear out its practitioner. I for, until I was even sending messages to a still trying to see Dick as the Good Thief McKuen. think of the times when as a human being, murderer in the Charles Street jail. The who had more in common with the Saviour It is hard to believe that doing good a Christian, a priest, I have hated love: in a saddest of all the crippled birds I knew was than the evidence would have made us things for someone could mean leaving him family, for example, where a woman cares my friend Dick. suspect, though the evidence convinced me to himself, especially if that someone is a for a hopelessly sick father with his mind Dick was a man about my age whom I there was mostly good in the man. tyrant willing to claim all our world. gone, who would be much better off in a had known for six or seven years. He had However much of Christ's grace might Sometimes, even if it h; not a good thing, it nursing home, heartless though that may been in and out of jails since he was have been in Dick, there were little of His is the best thing, the only thing, we can do. sound. There is a husband who needs this eighteen; before that, he had a history of wisdom in my decision to interfere in the All other ways are injunous to others, and 
woman's laughter; there are children who being shut up in reform schools. His life destructive to ourselves.
life of a ne'er-do-well who was better off in need her gentleness; but all they ever find, had been affected by a number of the major prison. There he m1r.ht have lived and To her, such words would have sounded for a period of two years -now, is her torments: dope, liquor, a broken marriage. found help and grow·n into a peaceful like the metaphysics of selfishness. It weariness. She never allows herself a He seemed to have been born under a middle age where his wife could have been would have seemed I was saying: "Don't 
moment of relief from the watching and tragic star; but his worst bit of luck was proud of him, and his children could have get invol"ved." Somehow, at Christmas, it waiting, on the chance that the wandering getting paroled by a Fall River judge into His wife had married him, does not seem likely that the celestial
adored him. mind may return to its shell, and so should my custody. He was standing trial on a knowing his failures, after he had spent Father could have ever said to His not find itself among strangers. charge of grand larceny; with Dick's thirteen years behind bars. She also only-begotten Son, "Don't get involved." 
"Take care of yourself," I said to the criminal record, his lawyer was certain he Later, on Good Friday, He could never
thought she could help him, and she was sweet voice on the telephone. "Remember, would get a minimum sentence of seven sure her love could heal him. have chided Him with: "See what a mess years. you got yourself into by getting involved?" 
In the end, I helped nobody. Dick died 
In the courtroom, the lawyer offered no because I couldn't give him the constant If Goq could not have said that, how can I defense. He merely told the judge that say words that sound like "Don't get
care he needed to keep out of trouble. The 
there was a priest present who wanted to involved" to a girl who sees, as in Dante's
wretched girl went back to the streets,
say a word on Dick's behalf. The judge said vision, Love as the force that moves the
more embittered against life than ever; for 
to me: "Will you promise to keep an eye on stars?
all I know, by now she and her eggs may
this man, and straighten him out, and keep For answer, I can only think of the souls I 
have terrorized every convent in Massa­chusetts. The faculty widow, sometimes have hurt by becoming involved myself: drunk and sometimes sober, began invent­
the wretched .street girl, embittered be­ing excuses to make me come to see her. In 
cause I didn't keep her; the faculty widow, the middle of the night, I would receive denying her Church and her God; and phone calls: alone in her apartment, she 
Dick, the carpenter, dying in thirst from said, she had fallen; could I come over and 
wounds inflicted by violent men. 
left in the studio is "Magnum Opus," At what point does heaven claim anyhelp her up? Or, she feared she was havingwhich reminds one of a band back stage, in part of this? 
a heart attack; could I say with her until she the final moments of rehearsal for a concert. Among this collection of musical 
Magnificent Meals in Michiana
debris, there is, believe it or not, two bright spots. "The Wall," a song that is currently receiving a considerable amount 
Doc Pierce's Saloon
of FM airplay, is not that bad of a song. It is a mellow piece for Kansas, and vocals 
By Tim O'Reiley
are clear, determined, and bearable to listen to. There is a fine mixing of For the important food critics, such as anchovy, tomato, sliced egg, and a mix of keyboards and synthesizers, and the music the Michelin Guide, the Mobil Guide, or chopped and large-leaf lettuce that had 
doesn't overpower the singing. If Kansas The Observer, Mishawaka stands as "mama mia" written all over it. But if could put this much effort into all of their nothing more than another stoplight on the these fine dishes aren't enough, there are compositions, they might enjoy a larger way to Chicago. Sure, the truck drivers numerous other salads from which to following. The other cut which stands out may like the place, but what is left for those choose, ranging from $1.25 to the "Tif­is "Questions Of My Childhood," mainly of us who don't have cast-iron stomachs? fany" ($2.35). 
because of the song's lyrics. Here lies We need only park our appetites at Doc The menu includes about ~ dozen proof that Steve Walsh and Kerry Livgren Pierce's Saloon (120 N. Main St.) to delve sandwiches of rather moderate price, of can write good songs, as evidenced by this into a three-star, five-star, or constellation which I chose the "Prescription" ($2.45), a
Leftoverturei 
small sampling: dinner (depending on which expert's roast beef sandwich which has the succu­"I don't need to face a world of standards are followed). lence in the meat that the dining halls lost. 
Kansas 
disillusion Certainly the interior cannot be down­Embraced by a fresh, sesame seed French By Jim Coyne I've come to one conclusion that I know graded. A Gay-90's motif, that can often bun and accompanied by large though not you know is true look like the backroom of a junk shop, is crisp french fries, the "Prescription" can The new album from Kansas, "Left­In the game of silent searching the cost arranged very tastefully and in good boast the versatility of being both a fine 
overture", sounds exactly like its title, of love is rising proportion by Doc's. It features wood lunch and dinner entree. leftover. There is nothing fresh or And I'm just now realizing I'd be Meanwhile, Mr. Gasior went the full
paneling, globe ceiling light, and a few 
innovative about the group's latest of­better off with you." 
Tiffany-windows in a manner that can be dinner route by selecting the "Double fering; in fact, it borders on boring. 
It is a shame that the talents of these two believed and enjoyed. As a garnish to this Dose" ($5. 75), a plate of fried shimp with 
The instrumental portions of the songs are hidden, and only brought out twice on laudable decoration, Doc's has eliminated baked potato. "Dey don't come no bedder are too long and drawn out and fail to add the album. Actualy, Kansas should muzak in favor of music, ranging from Billy dan dis, not even back home in Loozy­anything to the piece. The lyrics, which concentrate on their strengths, and pro­Holiday to Tchaikovsky, an unconfined anna,'' he exclaimed as he tossed aside his are, for the most part, screamed instead of mote the, rather than being content with tonal treat. fork to lunge at the shrimp with his fingers. sung, often sound forced and laden with their weaknesses, and producing them. In But since the object is to eat the food, not He also made quick forays into the basket 
cliches. (While on the subject of lyrics, I a dying age of strictly hard core, gut of warm slices of bread. Needless to say,
the ornamentation, soup quickly became don't see why Kansas included a lyric ripping 't'"Ock and toll, Kansas is trying the main order of business. Remembering he did not regret passing up the other sheet; there are many discrepancies desperately to establish themselves as one my mother's advice about winter, I chose items on a menu that includes steak,
between what is printed and what is sung.) 
of today's foremost bands. You must the soup de jour ($0.85), chicken noodle, to chicken, pizza, and another shrimp crea­Kansas' music sounds similar throughout 
pause and wonder just how hard they ARE ward off the nip of the cold wind. Indeed tion fried in beer and lemon. the album, while there is not experi­trying after li~tening to "Leftoverture." this rich, almost creamy broth warms with Lest we forget, this is a saloon with a 
mentation with style, and no variations of Although not miles away from reaching long bar serving up a smorgasbord of wine, 
a flavor that practically flaps its wings in form. 
respectability, they cannot continue to the mouth. Special guest gourmet and beer, and mixed drinks. Pina Colada, Pink There seems to be desire among the churn out music like this and expect to Southerner Jon Gasior chose the clam Squirrel, Grasshopper, and the Velvet 
band members to sound like "Yes," and at 
make it big. chowder ($0. 75) about which he noted, Hammer, which goes down like velvet but times they almost succeed. I say almost Don Kirshner, the little wizard that "Mmmmm, dis is gude ... and dey sho hits like a hammer lead the cast of alcoholic because they go a bit overbaord with the brings us Rock Concert and the Rock Music don't skimp on de clams." beverages in fine fashion. use of keyboards and synthesizers. One Awards is the man responsible for bringing Likewise, both salads were prepared in All this, topped by courteous and 
example of this is in the song, "Cheyenne 
Kansaslo the record industry. This album masterly fashion, in volumes that over­attentive service, didn't leave any room for Anthem," where the use of these instru­convinces me he should have stuck with whelmed the mundane chlna plates. The dessert. Nevertheless, the overall quality ments in the fashion employed by Kansas 
Thelfvlonkees and The Archies. dinner salad was simple yet flavorful, of Doc's is nothing but impressive. The would bring shame and disgrace to any topped with croutons that were still warm next time you reach that stoplight called Indian that had the misfortune of hearing ~lbum courtesy and not of the usual tooth-cracking Mishawaka, the only thing to do is stop at it. hardness. My "Italian Invigoration" Doc's to -see the one thing that that 
An<iher song which should have been ($1.85) was aggregation "downtown" has to offer.
of Mac's Record Rack an artistic of 


--------~--~-. -.. ·~~­
The Entertainment Week 
By Dauid 0 'Keefe 
ON THE TUBE 
Friday, December 3 
The Terminal Man (9:00 pm, Channel 22): George Segal is Harry Benson, a man who has electrodes implanted in the control centers of his brain to repair the damage that is causing him to black out. Something goes haywire, however, and Benson is transformed from a regular Joe to a monster of sorts. A pretty good try at sci-fi from the same author who gave us The Andromeda Strain. Smash-Up on Interstate 5 (9:00pm, 28): In the never-ending quest for newer, more harrowing disasters, our cameras take you to a modern highway, where half of Hollywood is involved in a chain-reaction collision. 
S110day, December 5 
Catch-22 (9:00 pm, 28): Mike Nichols directed this inside-out look at the upside­down Army, a sharp and insightful satire that exposes the military for what it is: an institution that appeals to man's primal aggressive instincts and crushes all who oppose it. Alan Arkin is brilliant as Yossarian, the man who maintains his dignity, if not his sanity, in the middle of all the craziness. 
Monday, December 6 
Cat on a Hot Tin RO?f (9:00 pm, 16): An 
ND Jazz:Growing Bigger and Better 
By Scott Appleby 
Increasingly popular in its fifth straight year on campus. Notre Dame jazz is swiftly becoming one of the most competent, highly respected musical entourages in the area. 
Under the direction of Fr. George Wiskirchen. C.S.C., the ND music prog­ram now includes two big bands and three combos, indicating a substantial growth of interest over the past two years on the part of the student body. Such heightened awareness has indeed proved lucrative: last year, the ND Jazz Comb~opped top honors at the highly competitive Collegiate Jazz Festival held here on campus. 
The big bands, usually around nineteen or twenty in number, are comprised of a large brass section revolving around a nucleus of four "bread 'n butter" musi­cians (bass, electric piano, percussion and guitar). In the smaller combos, these quartet rhythm sections are abstracted from their role as melody maker and are often pitted against one another as each instrument demonstrates its own remark­able range and virtuousity within the given framework of the song. Initially, the combo performs in unison. laying out the basic melodic boundaries and riffs of the number; gradually, each individual musi­cian taKes his turn at improvisation within the theme. 
In an exhilirating performance at Veg­etable Buddies last night, the four-man ND Jazz Combo was accompanied by Dennis Bamburg on sax and alto sax. The Notre Dame music professor all but stole the 
FAVORITE 
BED-TIME 
STORY 
IS FINALLY
AURANT 418 l Hill Street. 
A BED-TIME 
SOIItl ltH-233-2287 
STORY ... NOW OPEN 
REGULAR FOR LUNCH 
PRICES' 
SPECIALS DAILY 11am to 2pm MON. THRU FRI SERVING DINNERS AT Spm 
Delklous Italian Food· !legant Atmosph~re Cocktail Loun .. 
honest-to-God all-star cast (Laurence Olivier, Maureen Stapleton, Natalie Wood. Robert Wagner) star in Tennessee Wil­liam's magnificently unhappy study, which won him a Pulitzer Prize in 1955. 
Tuesday, December 7 
Happy Days (8:00pm, 28): I'd like to take time out here to lament the death of what used to be a very funny television show. The producers of Happy Days, apparently heady with the success they met in their first few seasons, now insist on taping in front of a live audience. That may sound like a very minor change, but what it'~ done is reduce the level of real humor whik raising the noise level beyond bearable limits as mobs of teenyboppers go ga-ga over Fonzie. It gives dumb a bad name. 
Wednesday, December 8 
Save the Tiger (9:00pm, 22): Harry Stoner (Jack Lemmon) has had it; his business is slowly going bankrupt, his wife is becom­ing more boring as she rapidly grows older, and ballplayers today are nothing more than overpaid prima donnas. The story follows him as he tries to combat the loneliness and despair that he can't seem to escape. A very fine film is made all the better by Lemmon's Oscar-winning perfor­mance. CharUe's Angels (10:00 pm, 28): The story of a boy and his dog. 
ON THE SCREEN 

One of the ND jazz bands. 
show during piano player Neil Gillespie's two original numbers, "Handle with Care" and "You Can't Stop it Now, Kid" which closed the set. The former, originating as a slow-moving, closely measured melody, was transformed midway by Bamburg's high-energy professionalism on sax into a rousing. up-tempo rocker which left heads nodding in approval and feet tapping in time. The funky "You can't stop it now, Kid" was successful due to Gillespie's deftness at creating a '~wah-wah" effect with his Fender-Rhodes electric piano; however, it was again Bamburg's over­whelming expertise, this'time on alto sax, which transformed an entertaining, routine number into an exciting, soaring musical statement of sorts. 
Bill Boris, the guitarist for the combo, 

EWORLD'S 
Huikr House 1: M*A*S*H (7 and 9:15, 
$2.50) Boiler House 2: Futureworld (7:15 and 9:30, $2.50): A sequel to Westworld, about a futuristic resort where one can release one's inhibitions on robots programmed to obey commands. Colfax: WUdemess FamUy (7 and 8:30, $3.00) 
, Forum 1: The Front (7:30 and 9:30, $2.50): Woody Allen stars in a seriocomic role as a schlemiel who fronts for blacklisted televis­ion writers during the McCarthy era. Forum 2: Allee In Wonderland (6:45, 8:15 and 9:50): The X rating should give you a good idea of what the Cheshire Cat was really smiling about. Soft porn from the makers of Flesh Gordon. Not recommend­ed for a date unless your date is Linda 
. turned i~ an impressive performance all night: his nimbleness on the bouncy, be-bop "Yardbird Suite" added an exira dimension to the melody, as did his work on his own number, the Latin-flavored, "T.V. Bossa." 
"Mr. Magic," a jazz-rock number made famous by Grover Washington, benefited from the driving bass of Cedrick Williams who, at seventeen, is the youngest member of the combo. Williams was obviously enjoying the number; as a result, the seemingly mundane role of the bass player took on a brighter. more vibrant aspect. 
Steve Calonje, hailing from the home of jazz--New Orleans--provided feverish back­up on drums, bongoes, and congas. Other than a noticeable timing mix-up on Boris' ''Write a Tune,'' he displayed an excellent sense of rhythm and an abundance of energy. 
The ND Jazz Combo, along with the big bands, turned in a two night performance at the Nazz on Wednesday and Thursday and plan to appear regularly at Vegetable Buddies for the remainder of the year. 
With such an abundance of student talent, coupled with the wide-ranging opportunity and fine instruction provided by a busy music department, it would certainly seem that jazz is here to stay at Notre Dame. As Fr. Wiskirchen put it, "Their only weakness, if they have any. is the inexperience of some of the musicians who have recently joined the band. With a little playing time under their belts, they will turn out just fine." 
7 
Warren Beatty holds Julie Christie at dryer point in the movie "Shampoo." 
Lovelace. And if that'' the case. you've got no business W<t,ting v.•ur time at the movies. River Park: Carrie (6:30. 8:15 and 10:00. $3.00): Brian de Palma (Obsession) directed this rather me~sy tale about a girl (Sissy Spacek) who uses her telekinetic powers to avenge herself on her tormentors in a frightful ending. Bloody but interest­ing. Scottsdale: Two-Minute Warning (7:00 and 9:30, $3.00): Sniper loose in the L.A. Coliseum poses problems for Charlton Heston and John Cassavetes. Town & Country 1: Gable and Lombard 
(7:45 and 9:45, $3.00): Weak depiction of the Hollywood duo whose love affair captured the nation's fancy for a moment. Town & Country 2: Marathon Man (7:00 and 9:30, $3.00): One of the best films of the year features Dustin Hoffman as a collegiate type who gets dragged unwit­tingly into an international intrigue precipi­tated by a Nazi fugitive (Laurence Olivier). 
ON CAMPUS 
A DeUeate Balance (Friday and Saturday, 
8:00 pm, O'L.aughlin. Call 284-4176 for ticket information): "Men's concerns are so simple--making ends meet until they meet the end." So it is with Edward Albee's study of the delicate balance between man's pursuit of loneliness and his obligation towards others. Matt Mc­Kenzie, Shevawn O'Conner, Ann Messullo, Ann Kenney, and more, under the direction of Diana Hawfield. Down to the Nlghtclub•••Bwnp City (La Fortune Ballroom, Friday and Saturday, 
/ 8-1, Free): The rather exotic name stands for the goings-on this weekend as the ballroom becomes a real swinging spot, replete with foosball, pinball and air hockey. If you really want to meet a girl, break her hand playing air hockey. The Four Musketeers (Friday and Satur­day, 7, 9, 11, $1, Engineering Auditorium): Richard Lester's bawdy and funny retelling of the classic story. Leonard Nlmoy (Tues. 7:30, Stepan Cen­ter): He of the pointed ears will speak to the assembled masses of his days as Mr. Spock and more. Dr. Benjamin Spock (Monday, 7:30, Wash­ington Hall): The famed baby doctor, who is indirectly responsible for us being happy and healthy today, will speak about, well, being a famed baby doctor, I guess. Shampoo (Tuesday and Wednesday, 7, 9, 11, $1, Engineering Auditorium): Warren Beatty does to Lee Grant, Julie Christie and Goldie Hawn what mortal men only dream of doing: their hair. 
this friday and every friday 5:15 mass & supper 
!DELICATE BALANCE 
:Edward Albee's Por1rait of disintegrating love. 
Dec.••4,9, 1 0,~ 
·ate :00 p.m. All-seats S2.50 1($2 Std-Fac-Staff)
i 

-------~--~----~-~----~----~ 
For early delivery 
Deadlines approaching for Christmas mail 
(AP)-There are 19 shopping days left until Christmas, but the dead­line for getting your purchases in the mail is today if you want them to arrive by the holidays. 
The Postal Service has moved up the deadline because of the strike of East Coast employees of United Parcel Service-the nation's largest Jrivate package carrier. 
Millions of parcels normally car­ried by UPS now are being sent through the mails. More than 9,000 extra employees have been hired by the Postal Service to handle the crush, but officials say they will have serious problems if people wait until the last minute to mail holiday gifts. 
The deadline for mailing first­class items such as cards is next 
\.OCI(s, LIQUOR WoR\.0 
South Bend Ave. 277-3611 
BAR KESSLER
BUSCH 
6 Pack 
vooKA AMERreAN 
$1.59 
. 12 Pack ROSE $29 WINE Fifth
$2.88 
LITE 
6 Pack 
$1.68 
CALVERT$369 
GIN Fnth . 

TEACHER'S CALVERT ·SCOTCH EXTRA 
$639 $3~; 
IROTHERS$499 
RANDY fill 

CHICAGO . (AP) -Consumer Sales Commissioner Jane Byrne took on Santa Claus yesterday. She sent a force of 80 toy-squeezing agents through Chicago stores to track down rubber animals that are breaking the noise ordinance by squeaking too loud. 
Byrne this spring took on the city's entire taxi fleet to enforce an ordinance that drivers must wear uniforms. She won her point after a hot controversy and the cabbies began sprucing up. Now she's putting the squeeze on loud toys. 
"It all started when one of our inspectors took home a rubber lion for his small daughter,'' said Byrne. "The child rolled over on the toy and the squeak was exceptionally loud. The inspector measured the noise and it was 100 decibles. So now· we are cleaning off the counters toys not only considered dangerous but also too loud." 
The citv noise abatement ordi­Friday-Dec. 10. 
Postmaster Gen. Benjamin F. Bailar said yesterday that the public was not mailing packages and cards as early as had been hoped. "We wouldn't want to give the public the feeling that we're not going to deliver their Christmas mail be Dec. 25, Bailar said. "But it would sure help us to do our job if they would mail early,'' he told reporters. 
Bailar said that a quick strike settlement "would have only a fairly minor influence on our vol­ume of Christmas mail." He noted that it would take time for United Parcel -to get back to normal operations and added: "Most of their customers have already made arrangements to have their mater-
Squeeze toys responsible for city decibel violations 
nance provides for a maximum 
sound level of 85 decibels one foot 
away. 
Byrne said her inspectors are 
armed with decibel-readers and 
will test the squeaks on the spot, 
bringing the violators to the con­·sumer lab for further testing. 
The culprits mainly are pigs, 
cats, dogs, clowns, lions and lambs 
ranging in size from five to eight 
inches. 
There were indications yester­
day, an assistant said, that 
merchants voluntarily are remov­
ing the questionable merchandise 
from their shelves. He said there 
could be thousands of the loud 
squeakers involved. 
Byrne said two toy firms appar­ently made the squeakers larger so they could be more securely anchored in the toys to prevent children from pulling them loose and swallowing them. In doing so, the manufacturers also made them louder, she said. 
ials delivered by others.'' 
Bailar repeated his assurances that Post Service so far is handling the extra volume with little trouble. He said that parcels are being delayed up to three days in the eastern half of the country. In the western half, delivery is close to normal, he said. 
First class mail has been influ­enced only slightly by the extra volume. "We will not divert any resources from first class to parcel post," Bailar said. 
The strike by the Teamsters Union began Sept. 15. It directly involves 17,000 employees in 15 states and indirectly affects anyone who wants to ship something to or from the struck area. 
Sources in Washington, where negotiations were being conducted, said a settlement hinged on agree­ment over local issues. 

-
HE BEST OF THE DOOBIESON WARNER BROS. 
ROD STEWART­A NIGHT ON THE TOWN ON WARNER BROTHER 
ELO-ANEW WORLD RECORD ·ON UNITED 
ARTISTS 
STEREOLPS SERIES 6.98 
3.99 
PICTURED ITEMS ON SALE. 
NOTRE DAME 
BOOKSTORE 

---~-~­

''Bump City'' comes to ND 
The Notre Dame Social Commission pledges to transform the L'liFortune Ballroom into "Bump City" both tonight and Saturday night from 8 to 1. 
The Ballroom will be equipped with pinball machines, foosball, and a disco dance floor. The commission had planned originally to include air hockey but was unable to do so because of size limitations. 
"We wanted to set this up so everybody would have an alternative to the bars as finals get closer," said events organizer Mike Kammerdiener. "It should be a good time." 
"Bump City" will also feature Disco dance lessons throughout the night, taught by Mike Narsete and Vickie Lopez. In addition to the dancing lessons, there will be a foosball team competitio" as well as the selection of the pinball wizard of Notre Dame. All contestants must register by 5 p.m. today in the Student Government offices. Several prizes will be awarded, including Christmas stockings. 
Steel rate hike questioned 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The has exhausted the avenues open to Council of Wage and Price Stability him in trying to persuade the said yesterday it is concerned that companies to rescind the increases. steel companies are trying to Carter yesterday rejected an "jump the gun" on possible wage offer for a meeting with the steel and price controls by raising prices industry, concluding there is now. nothing to hold back steel price 
But the council said the purport­ed strategy might backfire by forcing other companies to raise 
~ ~ 
~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 
..~ 
~ 
.. ~ 
.. 
-tc 
: 
------------------------~---~-----------­
Friday, December 3, 1976 the observer 
Inflation rise, larger deficit forecasted 

By R. Gregory Nokes Associated Press Writer 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Congress must accept higher inflation and a larger budget deficit if it .wants to get the economy back on track in 1977, the director of the Congres­sional Budget Office said yester­day. 
Alice Rivlin told the congres­sional Joint Economic Committee that Congress will be unable to meet its economic goals next year unless it reopens its budget to allow for tax cuts or increased spending. These goals are for an 
Darby thanks 
feast helpers 
Darby O,Gill, noted campus proprietor and leaf-chaser, yester­day expressed his appreciation for those who aided in preparing the Darby's Place Thanksgiving Day Feast. O'Gill cited Pat Keating of the Knights of Columbus for spec­ial recognition, saying, "Pat's a fine, soft-spoken Irish lad who really went out of his way to manage the whole affair. I really appreciate it." 
O'Gill also wished to thank those who contributed to the affair, including the Office of Student Affairs, Campus Ministry and Observer staff members Pat Hanifin and Martha Fanning. Fin­ally, O'Gill noted that Rev. Robert Griffin, University chaplain, was "of some help, and generally good to have around." 
ERRATUM 
A misprint · in Wednesday's 
paper indicated that anyone seek­
ing information about winter bike 
storage should contact Bob Ellis or 
Paul McDonnell after 4 p.m. at 
3134. The correct phone number is 
3431. 
Students wishing to register 
their bikes should bring them to the 
stadium at Gate 14, between 1-4:30 
p.m. 
today or between 2:30-4:30 

p.m. 
on Monday. 


prices and creating "an environ­THE ND -SMC JUNIOR CLASS PRESENTS 
ment which would invite the very kind of government behavior that business seeks to avoid." ''CHRISTMAS ON ICE'' 
Democratic Rep. William Moore­head of Pennsylvania, who said his SKATING PARTY House subcommittee will investi­
Friday, Dec.3
gate the increases, voiced a similar conclusion. Industry officials have 
ACC Ice Rink
repeatedly denied such motivation. 
Admission $.50
Meanwhile, the press spokes­
Skate rental $.50
man for President-elect Jimmy 
Carter, who has advocated standby FREE with Christmas Costume authority to impose economic con-"i"lnr'"'lr"'lt"'r'Y"'llrr~'"'lr"'lc-r'lrlra-:.:-x'"lnc-r'lrlra-~'"lnlr"lr"'nrr'lnl:-.r.K"X"X'i'nl' trois in an emergency, said Carter
********************** 
DOWNTOTHE 
NIGHTCLUB ... 
aTY 
FREE ADMISSION 
Fri. & Sat. DEC.3&4 
Fantastic Sounds Pinball Air Hockey Foosball Dancing Lessons 
LaFortune Ballroom 
8pm to 1am Both Nights 
Two-Man Foosball com­petition One on One Air Hockey Pinball Wizard of Notre Dame Contest 
PRIZES PRIZES PRIZES PRIZES 
All Foosball Team Captains, Air Hockey Contes­tants and Pinball Wizards must register by 5 pm 
_ CALL 7757 
average unemployment rate of 6.5 percent and economic growth of about 5.5 percent. 
"Without the additional stim­ulus, the consensus among fore­casters clearly would be for a growth rate below five percent and an unemployment rate in excess of seven percent," she said. "Infla­tion would be about 5.5 percent." 
Rivlin didn't actually recommend stimulus, nor did she indicate whether she would prefer a tax cut or increased spending. 
But she said forecasts also "suggest" a significantly weaker performance for the economy in 1978 than previously predicted, unless something is done. 
"The economic lull which began 
MAKE YOUR PLACE THEROMA 
Dance to our disco band 'Isaiah' 
and enjoy our famous pizza call 234-3258 for delivery we wish you happy holidays
-.-=.--............... ....•..•.. .. 
. 
•--TIMM-PA:RTY-STORE .• 
. ­
:oPEN: MON-SAT 9 am-11 pm! : SUNDAY 12 noon-11 pm : : COLD BEER, _PACKAGE IJQUOR;: : WINE, GOURMET FOODS .: : 3114 S. 11 ST. NILES, MICI{J;G~: 
: 1 BLOCK NO -OF IND.-MICH. STATE LINEON~~-·S• 3l: . ·····~·· ~
...................... 
The White House Inn 
ROCK & ROLL WITH THE BEST BANDS IN TH MIDWEST/NITELY (E~cept T~es) THIS WEEK~'SHATTER STAR 
The White House Inn 683-98-42 2839 No. 51th St. Niles 
Take U.S; 31 to ·Niles, North on.Sl, 3 miles. 
I • I • -. I • , , • 1 ., I ' • '' ' ' • • I I I I '
~:*·***·*-***********·***·*******••· 
L-----------------------------------------------------------------~------------------­
this spring has been deeper and more prolonged than forecasters, ;ncluding ours, expected," she said. 
She and Paul O'Neill, deputy director of the Ford administra­tion's Office of Management and Budget, agreed that the economic slowdown will increase the 1977 budget deficit by $5-10 billion more than Congress approved to a total of at least $55-60 billion. 
It appears the government could end up with a 1977 budget deficit ~qualing or even exceeding the 
•ecord 1976 deficit of $65.6 billion. if the figures are correct and if Congress should enact a multi­billion dollar program of stimulus. 
------COUPON -----­
$1.00 off 
any 
14 inch Pizza 
713 E. Jefferson Expires Dec. 23 
limit 1 coupon per piuo 
------COUPON -----­
$.50 off 
any 
10 inch Pizza 
713 E. Jefferson 
~Ires Dec. 23 
limh 1 coupon per piuo 

-----------------------------------------~----------~-~--------~---------­
------------~--------~---­
Art Gallery to expand 
Notre Dame has received $2 million from the Snite Foundation of Chicago for a major addition to its Art Gallery, it was announced yesterday by Rev. Theodore M. Hcsburgh, C.S.C., president of the University. 
The expanded gallery, which will have three times the exhibit space of the current one, will be named in honor of Fred B. Snite of Chicago, founder and retired chairman of the board of Local Loan Company. The <}2-year-old Snite, known as "Ct;lonel" to his associates. partic­ipated in a ground-breaking on campus today, along with his daughter. Mary Loretto. and her husband. Terrence J. Dillon, a 1932 alumnus of Notre Dame and vicc chairman of Local Loan Company: his daughter-in-law, Mrs. Fred B. Snitc, Jr., and a granddaughter, Mrs. Stanley Williams. 
"All of the Notre Dame commun­it:v is grateful for this gift, which will keep on giving over the years to succeeding generations of stu­dents and gallery visitors," Hes­burgh commented. "The Notre Dame Art Gallery has been an educational resource for the Uni­versity and an aesthetic resource for the surrounding community. The generosity of the Snite Foun­dation will allow us to display more of our permanent collection and provide more room for teaching and gallery supportive activities." 
Snite, whose previous benefac­tions to Notre Dame include $50,000 toward construction of its Memorial Library in 1963 and the donation -of more than 40 Old Master paintings to the Art Gal­lery, founded Local Loan Company in 1908 with $11,000 in borrowed capital. The firm, which was acquired by Mellon National Bank in 1976, now has 125 offices in 12 states. Snite is also honorary chairman of the board of the Commercial National Bank in Chicago and owner of the Elmhurst (Ill.) Country Club. 
Long active in Catholic and charitable activities, Snite was for many years chairman of the board of St. Francis Hopsital in Miami Beach and is a member of the boards of three other hospitals and three universities, including Fu­Jen University in Taiwan. He has also served as chairman of the Community Fund of Chicago and the Red Cross Drive, and has been on Notre Dame's College of Busi­ness Administration Advisory Council for 18 years. In recognition of his service to the Church, he was made a Knight Commander of the Holy Sepulchre by Pope Pius XII. 
The addition to the Art Gallery, originally built in 1952, will extend the structure south, giving it a 
• Special orders filled promptly! 
·---~ECORDS 
Get In The 

909-B College Square CHRISTMAS SPffiiT Mishawaka, Indiana 
Buy Yourself:
(across from Town & Country) 
*LP's (Weekly specials on Rock, Jazz, & Soul) *BONGS * ASSESSORIES *T ·SHIRTS *CLOTHES *BUCKLES * 8-TRACKS 
*JEWELRY 
*BELTS Special on Jewelry this week New hours through Christmas Mon-Fri lOam -JJpm
919 I Collttt St~n rt Mishwaka, ldi11a 46544 Sun 12-6pm 
more visible public entrance, and connect it with the Ivan Mestrovic Sculpture studio, which will be converted into a gallery for the exhibition of that artist's works. The gallery has 6,000 pieces in its collection, which is valued at $10 million. 
"With 37,000 square feet of exhibition space, we will be able to hang many pieces from our collec­tion permanently," said Dr. Dean Porter, director of the gallery. "At present, 90 percent of our collec­tion is in storage at any given time, depriving us of a valuable educa­tional tool." 
The expansion will also provide modernization of research, teach­ing, and study facilities. Added will be classrooms: seminar rooms for the study of graphics, ceramics and 
photography: conference rooms, a gallery library and an auditorium. Notre Dame's art collection has been built by benefactors. There 
Observer photographer Debbie had been a small group of paintings 
has its disadvantages.
at the University almost since its founding, but the first large acqui­sition, 136 paintings, was not made saved many works from certain loss 
until 1917. Eight years later, the as well as brought to life several collection had grown to some 224 works hidden beneath years of dirt works and was housed in four and overpaint. The Fisher bequest 
rooms of the former library, called (1951), the Kress Foundation Study 
Wightman Memorial Art Gallery in Collection (1961), and the gifts of honor of a major donor. In 1952, a G. David Thompson (1962) arc wing of the new O'Shaughnessy among the significant gifts over the 
Hall was set aside for a gallery and past quarter-century. the Notre Dame collection for the A profile of the collection, which 
first time was placed in a controlled now includes more than 4.000 environment and under profession­works, would include strength in al care. the Italian periods from the 14th b' 

Since coming to O'Shaughnessy, 
the 18th centuries, 17th and l8ih ).,~;;.:,~~~~=~~~~~~~;;,;~~~~~~~~~
century French, Flemish and Eng-
the collection has grown and devel­oped through careful selection and lish, as well as a recent expansion rejection. A systematic program of into the 20th century, both cleaning and restoration has also European and American. 
Commission recommends Congressional salary hikes 
WASHINGTON (AP) -A special The commission recommended commission recommended to Pres­that members of the House and ident Ford yesterday a raise in Senate receive $57,500 annually, salaries totaling $129.5 million for compared to the current $44,600. the new Congress, U.S. judges and The vice president, the speaker top federal personnel, including of the House and the Supreme Cabinet members. Court chief justice would each get 
But the commission also made it $80,000, up from $65,600. 1 clear to Ford that it hopes to link Salaries of other Supreme Court the salary hikes with a commitment justices would go from $63,000 to by the three branches of govern­$77,500 and that of Cabinet mem­ment to come up with a stricter bers from $63,000 to $67,500. code of conduct on outside income The annual total cost of salary and financial disclosure. increases recommended for 2,496 
Using the recommendations as top people in the executive, legis­background, Ford will put the exact lative and judicial branches would rates of pay he thinks advisable amount to $37.6 million. 
into the budget submitted next But the ripple effect would mean month. Unless either the House or more money for 20,365 other career Senate vetoes the proposals, the federal employes. Estimated total new rates would go into effect increase in salary of these employ­about February. es would be about $81 million. 
Krilich discovers that taking pictures of the snowy landscape Photo by Debbie Krilich's friend 
luddill 
'234-1431 
downtown south bend ·1across from the bi9 hole 
FRI. & SAT., DEC. 3 & 4 CHICAGO'S LADY OF THE BLUES 
KOKO TAYLOR 
FIRST DRINK ONE HALF PRICE 
SPECIAL: WED.* DEC. 8. SOUTH SHORE 

FALSTAFF OLDMILWAUKEE 12PACK I I 12 PACK 
-~~.=22.J L!~:22.
----, r-------·
BLATZ I I BALLANTINE 12PACK 12PACK 
$2.79 II $2.69 
-------~~------­
-------,~------­
OLD STYLE I I BUDWIESER 
12 PACK I I 12 PACK 
$2.79 II $2.99 
·-------------· 
Quarts of Beer -Case$7.30 
10 Percent Disoount with ND-.'SMC 
I. D. On other Vodkas, Bourbons, Sootchs, Gins, Rums, Blends, Tequilas, Wines, and Uqueurs 
FOUR LOCATIONS 
12th St. uquor Store A»rtage Pdrfy Shop 12th St. in Mishawaka 826 Portage Avenue Phone 259-8634 Phone 232-8858 
Town & Country 
Shopping Center 
Phone 259·3262 Phone 289·3868 
ALL STORES OPEN NIGHTS 'TILL 11 PM 
:i ••••• ·' .. '' 

ND-SMC women's hoopstersc.;day,De<embe•J..•7 
• 
prepare for big encounter 
by Debbie DahrUng varsity-level season with a mem­are home games, before district _..c. Sports Editor bership of 13 girls, seven of which play begins on February 25-26. 
are returning players. Coming off
"='''. 
The outlook for the season looks
a 12-3 regular season record last 
promising with the initial game to
The first of two exciting battles year and a second place title in the 
be a prediction of the future
between the rival St. Mary's and state tournament, the team is 
season. The traditional St.
Notre Dame women's basketball anxious to defend their record. 
Mary's-Notre Dame match could
teams will be executed tomorrow 
possibly be the most tension-filled
afternoon at 3:30p.m. in the ACC. "We are a potentially stronger 
game of the year for the team
The season opener for the St. club this year," Rape explained, 
which should definitely make the
Mary's team should prove to be a "and for a relatively young team, 
game worthwhile for the
worthwhile event to witness. as is we are equally balanced. The team spectators.
all competition between the two is extremely quick and a big factor school. Bonnie Rape, the assistant for us this year is that we have the ''I'm confident of our team's coach of the team, explained the necessary bench strength to keep ability," said Rape. "our quick­team's feelings for the upcoming the opposing teams running. With ness will be a big factor, but we'll game. "You don't have to work on out quickness we want to control beat Notre Dame on our skill." being psyched for a Notre Dame the tempo of the game. If we can 
Due to a recently recognized
game. All I'm worried about now is do that. we will be able to run the 
need for them, women's athletic
if the girls get over psyched." other teams off the court." 
programs have been steadily im­
This year's team for St. Mary's is The team this year has a season 
proving. This can be witnessed by
prepared for the school's second schedule of 14 games, five of which the vastly improved caliber of play in women's varsity sports. If you have a chance. drop by the ACC on
Big Ten All-Stars 
Saturday and watch this contest. You may be surprised.
CHICAGO (AP) -Michigan's Big Ten in the Orange Bowl, Rose Bowl-bound Wolverines, led landed five players on the defen­by running back Rob Lytle and sive team which included four McRae top DH flanker Jim Smith, dominated the repeaters from last year and four 1976 All-Big Ten football team others who were unanimous NEW YORK AP -Hal McRae, selected by The Associated Press. choices. whose hitting led the Kansas City
Smith, a repeater from last The repeaters were tackle Nick 
Royals to the Americn League 
Robinson, Observer sports editoryear's team, and Lytle were unan­Buomomici of Ohio State, end West Division title in 1976, was Fred Herbst, and sports columnist Scores imous choices on offense along Blane Smith of Purdue and defen­
named Thursday as the AL's 
Chip Spina will joint host Joe
with running back Scott Dierking of sive backs Pete Shaw of North­outstanding designated hitter. Kentucky 103 .·cu 53
Donnelly lO p.m. Sunday night on
Purdue. western and Tom Hannon of Mich­
The award is presented each 
"Speaking of Sports." The show
Michigan landed four others on igan State. year to the league's most valuable Columbia 85 Rutgers 75
features a phone-in format andthe offensive unit including quar­Unanimous choices were end DH. McRae, who led all desig­questioners are urged to chip in on
terback Rick Leach, tackle Bill Bob Brudzinski of Ohio State, ·nated hitters with a .329 average, Maryland 49 LIU 45
the conversation.
Dufek, center Walt Downing and tackle Greg Morton of Michigan 
received 53 first-place votes from a guard Mark Donahue. and linebackers Calvin O'Neal of panel of sports writers, broad­Murtaugh dies Rhode Island '78 Brown 74 
Rounding out the offense were Michigan and Scott Studwell of 
casters and public relations direc­CHESTER, Pa.. AP -Dannytight end Mike Cobb of Michigan Illinois. tors in the AL cities. Rico Carty, Murtaugh. the "Whistling Irish­Miss. St. 96 S. Miss. 72 State, wide receiver Scott Yelving­The other three players on the formerly of the Cleveland Indians man.. when he played for the ton of Northwestern, tackle Chris defensive unit-all from Ohio State­Oral Roberts
and now with the expansion Toron­Pittsburgh Pirates and unflappable 106 Tulsa 62 Ward of Ohio State and guard were middle guard Aaron Brown, 
to Blue Jays, was second with 18 dugout stoic when he managedConnie Zelencik of Purdue. Illinois linebacker Tom Cousineau and first-place votes. them, died Thursday at age 59. Wisconsin 82 St. Mary's (Cal) 76 place kicker Dan Beaver was defensive back Ray Griffin. 
Previous winners of the award, Murtaugh, who retired as Pirate selected to the team-for a second Selected as the punter for the sponsored by the league and the manager at the end of last season, Kansas St. 87 Cal. Poly. 68 
second straight season was Ohio
straight year. Manchester, N.H., Union Leader, died at Crozier-Chester Medical While Michigan dominated on State's Tom Skladany. were Orlando Cepeda in 1973, Center where he had been in the Duquesne 100 Wheeling 70 ofeense. cochampion Ohio State's Cousineau and Leach were the Tommy Davis in 1974 and Willie 
intensive care unit since a stmke 
Buckeyes, who will represent the only sophomores to make the team. Horton in 1975. Wyoming 80 Northern Calif. 58
Tuesday afternoon. 
The biggest basketball game on campus this weekend involves two women's teams, not the Notre Dame varsity. 
Sports Talk 
WSND sports director Ted 
Notices 
Anyone from NY, NY, Conn. or Mass. interested in taking Amtrak for Christmas Break, pick up forms in Student Activities office, Lafor­tune immediately. Reduced group rates available. J' 
Neat accurate typing of term p~manuscripts. Call 287-5162. . 
Accurate, fast typing. Mrs. Donoho 232-0746 Hours Bam to Bpm. 
Need typing?' Professional typing service . top quality -convenient location. 232-0898. 
Free . baby gerbilS. Call 272-0495. 
MORRISSEY LOAN FUND $20 "'150. 1 day wait. 1 percent interest. Due in 30 days. LaFortune Basement. M-F 11:15-12:15. 
Riders needed to all destinations. 
For info call, Bruce 8906. 
Typing. 35 cents a page. Call Dan ­272-5549. 
For Rent 
Roommates wanted tor ND apt. starting Jan 1. Call 288-4133. 
House close to campus -5 bedrooms tor 3 to 5 people. Call 233-2613 after 5:30p.m. 
Lost and Found 
Jumper cables at St. Joe Airport, Monday morning, call 289-5655. 
Found: Cross pen in front of LaFortune. Call 4-5234. 
Lost NDRing. white gold, light blue faceted stone. Initials J.E.C. '78. If found, please call Jay -3457. 
Wanted 
Need one housemate for spring semester. Own unfurnished room i in seven room house. $50.00 monthly plus utilities. Call 287-2702 
Need housemates 4 miles: good neighborhood; furnished, color TV, pool table. $60 includes utilities. 233-2706. 
Wanted: Friends of the Zoo. Apply in person, Fri. nite. 
Classified Ads 
Doc Pierce's Saloon & Restaruant is hiring full or part time now. Hostesses, bartenders, waiters, waitresses, busboys, line codes, prep cooks. Will schedule around academic committments. Apply in person between 2 and 4 pm at 120 North Main Street, Mishawaka. Phone 255-7737. An equal oppor­tunity employer. 
Missed plane for Senior Trip. Need ride to San Diego on or about 20th. Call Tim at 1715, nights. 
Riders needed to Ft. Lauderdale ­Miami for Christmas break. Must leave Friday, Dec. 17. Call Bob, 1419. 
Desperately need ride to Chicago areatodayafter4pm. Call Tim 1818 
Need 2 Indiana B-ball tickets. Call
Jim at 8jJ,II6..LIIo___ 
1 need a ride to Ft. Lauderdale for Christmas. Can leave on Sat., Dec 
18. Call Mike 8701. 

Wanted to bu : 1 
camera. Call 
ForS.Ie 
For Sale: I GA Gator bowl til•• price. Call 8125. 
Sk~.-;.;t-~~;;~:-195~ 
excellent condition, call 277· 
nites till midnight. · 
Book Shop. Used Books. StudentS Paradise. Open Wed., ·sat., Sun. 9-7. Ralph Casperson Books, 1303 buchannon Road. Niles, Mich. 
6~ttes-. 
'73 Vega GT Hatchback, new engine new tires, new exhaust system, AC, Best offer, call 287-5655. 
1 Pair lge. Advents-unopened. 
$225.00. Call Ed at 1492. 
For Sale: Philips GA212 stereo turntable. Shure V-15 Type Ill cartridge. 6 months old. Call 7122. Paul. Asking $150. 
Bankruptcy sale!!Dual 1219 auto 
matic turntable. Low miles askinr 
$120. Call Chester Zwork after 6:0! 
pm. 
Audio Outlet: top name stero equipment, wholesale.Call 283-1181 
Personals 
Mary, Welcome back Birthday Girl! Dan 
Dear522, 1126 (Holiday Inn) Seven & Sevens don't taste good unless mixed in California! Zoom, Schwartz, & Profigliano tell us that the average family has 2.1 children. 
We miss you & Calif. 1427 (Holiday) 
Dear 816 (Holiday Inn), I believe that I have more than just the key to your heart. 
Love, Khalua & Cream 
Cheryl-Hope you get what you want for your birthday. (dirty laugh, dirty laugh). But I thought you liked your bananas plain!! !MPW 
Doc, First Elton, now BTO. Have you no class!Happy Birthday. 
ASH 
Congratulations Duff and Michele. The·Brenlovie Duo 
Karen Murano­I'd walk barefoot through snow, over rocks and glass, over moun­tains, and across rivers just to step on your grapes. Mosely "Hotlips" Morepepper. 
Because she wa human, you idiots. Helen Keller could only have babies Goats have kids. 
Happy Birthday to you!!!. 
Peter Sweeny, Women are not inferior to men! ...... 
Peg, Mary, and Deb-Thanx for the wonderful birthday. 1 had a great time .. I think. 
Valerator. 
Pumpkin-l'm glad you're reading now. Hope this Christmas isn't too tacky. 
Duncan 
Last chance to get on Santa's "Nice'1'1ist! Save me from a blood (money)-thirsty Greyhound. Need ride to St. Louis Dec. 22. Just off Highway 40 on Clayton. Call Maureen 6825 or 1715. 
Fonzie says congratulations to Mi­chele and Duff • 
STUDENT UNION IS TENTATIVELY PLANNING TO PLANNING TO CHARTER A ... FROM N.D. TO O'HARE 
PO. 
CHRISTMAS. INTERESTED STU­
, DENTS SIGN UP WITH S.U. SEC· RETARY 2nd FLOOR LAFORTUNE BY DEC. 7. 
Scott: Frohliche geburtstag meine kleine Lieblingspeise! Deine lmmer, Lyssa 
Do you want to be a Catholic? Please call 283-6536 or 283-3820 for information about the Notre Dame Catechumenate Program. 
Happy Birthday, Looker. 
Today is Pam Jurgen's (heir to the hand lotion fortune) birthday. Call her up at 4-4137 and burp. 
·...ahaaaa! !! !.............................. 
With all best wishes to Kevin and Michele. Stanford Hall 
Zoo Day is here! Greet your favorite Zoo member. He should be easily recognized. 
Dear "Kelly Green" George, Georgie porgie puddin 'n' pie, "the girls" kissed him and made him cry. 
So when "the girls" came out to play, Goergie porgie ran away! Don't run too fast George, we're trying to catch you. 
We love you "the girls" 
Howdy, Howdy, Howdy!!! 
CLUTCH WURZEL. CAPT. O'REILEY & ALL OTHER PARTY POOPERS +THE FORCES OF THE UNKNOWN WILL BE MADE KNOWN TO ALL THOSE WHO FAIL TO ATTEND GROUP FUNC­TIONS. SEE YOU SATURDAY NIGHT. 
Snow White, alias Cheryl Tibor: Bumps or humps occupy a camels back. Has this anything to do with your birthday? Who knows? Blackhawk knows. Happy Birthday. 
Dear Michelle, While I'm at it...Thanks for your thoughtfulness, you helped make my day. Do you think there's a chance? I'm game for negotiation. 
An "old" friend Happy Birthday to you Happy Birthday to you Happy Birthday dear Squat, Happy Birthday to you 
...
Dec 
Dear Walsh, Why have you foresaken us? we·re 5 well-dressed juniors in a Stude­baker with nowhere to go. Waiting and available. 
JHPHCEBCJW 
Liebe Doc, Stink-furtz-popo du kannst heute ein heisses bad haben. Heute ist deiner geburtstag. Happy Birthday. 
Ovne 
Duff, Well good buddy, it looks as though you'll be moving on to a bigger and better life. Thanks for all your concern, unctent.-.ding, and mainly just putting up with me. (how did you do it??) My congratulations to you and Michele and I hope all your expectations, hopes, and dreams will be fulfilled in the years to come. 
Your almost to be: ex-roommate, Koeb's. 
Happy Birthday to Rosie B. Who drinks more coffee than anyone else in 'D' I've thunk & thunk with all my might But I can't be 'punny• in the middle of the niCJht. Happy 20! · Love, the Tremendous Triple 
U.G. LEE Happy Birthday, roomie! Now that you're 21. you're really nice (and legal) Now that it's 12-5, you don't have to fake 5-12 (get it?) See you later on your day, maybe??? Your ugly sister roommate. 
Liebe "Doc", Gluck zum Geburtstag! Ou bist jetzt einen allen mann. (Zwanzig, ja?) Vie I Spass! Deine in Ewigkeit 
"pr.ecious" 
Lyons-Dillon Co-Ree Team: Life is a lot of opposites, so lets keep out of the lane and put the ball in the hoop. See you Sunday at 3 :00. 
The Agitator 
Barbara-May Baby Roo have fun on the slopes without landing on her tail too often. 
Tigger. 
• '. i. :',, . ·,·,:
·, . • ,,., ...... ,·,.I .. ',·,. 
.THE QUICKIE RUNS TONIGHT!!! 
' 
12 the observer Friday, December 3, 197& 
Dorsett, Browner top All-Americans 
NEW YORK AP -Tony Dorsett, Pittsburgh's record-breaking Heis­man Trophy winner. and three other great runners were named to The Associated Press 1976 All­America college football team Thursday as part of a five-man backfield. 
Joining Dorsett and pass-happy quarterback Tommy Kramer of Rice on the offensive unit are running backs Ricky Bell of South California, Rob Lytle of Michigan and Terry Miller of Oklahoma State. It was considered impos­sible to choose among Bell, Lytle and Miller. 
The AP All-America team will be seen on Bob Hope's Comedy 
"Christmas Special on NBC-TV, Monday. Dec. 13. from 8:30-10 p.m., EST. 
Dorsett made first team All­America in 1973 -the first fresh­man so honored in 29 years -third
.. 
team in 1974 and second team a year ago. But the only 1975 repeaters on the first unit are Bell and split end Larry Seivers of Tennessee. Joining Seivers at end is Michi­gan's Jim Smith. a clutch receiver and shifty kick returner. The offensive tackles are Georgia's 253-pound Mike "Moonpie" Wil­son and Oklahoma's 275-pound Mike ·u.s.s." Vaughan. The guards are a pair of 250-pounders, Ted Albrecht of California and T .J. Humphreys of Arkansas State. The center is 245-pound John Yarno of Idaho, who was named Offensive 
Player of the Year, in the Big Sky 
Conference, an unusual feat for any 
offensive lineman. 
The defensive line consists of 
247-pound Ross Browner of Notre 
Dame and 224-pound Bob Brudzin­
ski of Ohio State at the end, 
268-pound Wilson Whitley of 
Houston and 250-pound Eddie 
Edwards of Miami, Fla., at the 
tackles and AI Romano, Pitt's 
225-pound middle guard. 
The linebackers are Robert Jack­
son of Texas A & M, Brian Ruff of 
The Citadel and Jerry Robinson of 
UCLA, while the deep backs are 
Bill Armstrong of Wake Forest, 
Gary Green of Baylor and Dennis 
Thurman of Southern Cal. 
Pitt, Michigan and Southern Cal, 
1-2-3 in the final regular season AP 
poll, were the only teams to place 
two players on the first team. All 
but four members of the 23-man, 
first unit are seniors. Miller, 
Browner and Thurman are juniors, 
and Robinson is a sophomore. 
Dorsett finished the regular sea­
son with an NCAA single-season 
record of 1,948 yeards. His 6,082 
career yards is another mark, along 
with his 356 career points. 
Bell, who missed setting a 
single-season record last year by 
six yards when he finished with 
1,875, settled for 1,417 this year 
after missing one game and playing while hurt in a couple of others. He carried 51 times against Washing­ton State lor an incredible 347 . yards , just three short of the 
all-time record. 
~ 
Tony Pace 
Pace's Picks 
This is the next to last week of the regular season in the NFL and the quality teams are slowly emerging from the pack. Because o.f a somewhat dreary schedule of games this week, I am tempted to p1ck the teams on the basis of their nickname. A trend that may be noticeable is my favoring teams that have animal nicknames; after all. today is Zoo Day and I would not want to disappoint my Grace Hall Sectionmates. 
SATURDAY AFTERNOON 
LOS ANGELES over Atlanta by 14 points-While Falcons could give Rams a good fight in nature, these football birds are do<:ile. The Rams though, will be looking for bigger prey. STLOUIS over Baltimore by 1 point-The Colts must journey to the Redbirds natural habitat, this could lead to an air battle where the Cards will flourish. 
SUNDAY AFTERNOON 
MIAMI over Buffalo by 10 points -Even with The Juice's 273-yard performance against the Lions, the Bills still lost. After some roug.h water in recent weeks, the Dolphins may finally be able to pop their heads above the waves. Chicago over SEATTLE by 7 points -The Seahawks have been struggling to get off the ground, but they are better t~a~ your average expansion team. The Bears may already be thmkmg of. next year. Dallas over PHILADELPHIA by 17 points -Though the Cowboys may be complacent after their big turkey day victory, the Eagles will not press them. Detroit over NEW JERSEY GIANTS by 3 points -Without RB Larry Csonka and tackle Tom Mullen, the Giants will have little offensive firepower. The Lions have one of the btst defenses in the NFL, despite what The Juice did to them on Thanksgiving. MINNESOTA over Green Bay by 14 points-The Vikings want the homefield advantage in the playoffs and they must win to get it; the Vikes usually get what they want. CLEVELAND over Houson by 7 points -The Browns still have an outside shot at a playoff berth and they need this win to keep that opportunity available. The Oilers are in the planning stages of next season. Kansas City over DENVER by 3 points -After beating the Giants by one point two weeks, Jim Turner said that the Giants were almost as bad as the Jets. Considering the fact that the Broncos lost to the Patriots by 24 points last Sunday, I wonder if he can now tell us how bad the Broncos are. NEW ENGLAND over New Orleans by 20 points -The Pats are a playoff contender and they are not going to let the Saints stand in their path. . San Fancisco over SAN DIEGO by 3 points -For these two teams, 1t is beginning to look a lot like Christmas. PITTSBURGH over Tampa Bay by 30 points -The Steelers need help from either the Raiders or the Jets in order to make the 
·playoffs. The Buccaneers should pose no pro~lem. Washington over NEW YORK JETS by 10 pomts-For the last few weeks, the Jets have jumped ahead in the first quarter; too bad the game last four. 
MONDAY NIGHT 
Cincinnati over OAKLAND by 3 points • All Steeler fans will be looking at this game with more than a passing interest. Kn~wing the Raiders love for the Steelen, I wonder bow bard they will be playing. 

Miller rushed for 1,541 yards, second best ever by a Big Eight Conference runner. He was sensa­
tional in league games, gaining 81 against Kansas, 137 against Colo­rado, 159 against Oklahoma, 228 
against Missouri, 149 against Ne­braska, 221 against Kansas State and 199 against Iowa State. He had 
two other 100-yard games outside the conference and was named Big Eight Offensive Player of the Week four times in five weeks. 
Lytle, who played both tailback and fullback, is rated by Coach Bo Schembechler as the best running 
back he has ever coached. Lytle was remarkably consistent and went over 100 yards eight times, 
including 180 against Michigan State, 175 against Indian, 172 against Northwestern and 165 a­gainst Ohio State in the Rose Bowl showdown. His per-carry average of 6. 9 yards was the best of the four All-America running backs. 
Kramer led the nation in total offense and pssing. Although opponents knew Rice was going to 
throw the ball most of the time, Kramer still completed 269 of SOl passes-24.5 completions per game -for 3,317 yards and 21 touch­
downs. He threw only 19 inter­ceptions, just one in every 26.3 passes, and finished his career by connecting on 27 of 52 for 409 yards against Southwest Conference champion Houston. 
leers prepare for Tiger invasion 
by Ray O'Brien Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame leers seem to 
have found the groove in their last 
three games and have picked up 
some needed momentum as they 
ready for this weekend's series 
against Colorado College. 
After a hard fought split with a highly touted Wisconsin squad, the Irish returned home and demol­ished Bowling Green who was ranked fifth nationally at the time and had tied Notre Dame in the exhibition season. The Irish seem to have settled down into a more patterned offense and the defense has come alive in the past three games only allowing five shots to crease the net. 
This organized attack must con­tinue this weekend if Coach Lefty Smith's squad hopes to come up with a much needed sweep in WCHA play. Colorado College will prove a tough opponent as they boast fifteen returning lettermen from last year's squad that posted a 15-16-1 WCHA record. 
The Tigers of Colorado are led by sophom-re center Dave Delich. Delich, last year's Rookie of the Year in the WCHA, topped Color­ado in scoring last season with 23 goals and 49 points. Delich posses­ses both speed and strength at the center slot. He was contacted last year by the Minnesota North Stars after his tremendous freshman season. 
Setting up Delich from their wing positions are veterans Jim Warner and Rick Pracht. This combo totaled 34 goals and 37 assists between them during the 1975-76 campaign. Also contributing from the wing is junior Mike Haedrick who added 15 goals to last year's output. 
Defense is the key to the Tigers success. This year Colorado is without the services of their two time Ali~American Eddie Mio who was lost to graduation. This has left an inexperienced Scott Owens in front of the net. 
However, all is not lost for the Colorado defense as senior Greg Smith controls the action from his blueline position. Smith tallied 18 goals last year which helped earn him a second team All-WCHA selection. This tough player is sure to stir up some excitement as he totaled a team high of 123 penalty minutes as a junior. Backing up Smith from their defensive spots much needed consistency that will be two highly regarded fresh­seemed to be lacking in earlier men in Mike Knoke and Dave series. 
Feamster. Notre Dame has outscored their After a rough opening season the opponents by only two goals thus Irish are moving into full swing. far this season with a total of 46-44 "We've won three of the last five (not including play outside of the games and are really d'eveloping as WCHA). The Irish have continually a team," commented coach Lefty come out cold and lackadaisical as Smith. "The team performed well they have been outscored in the in Wisconsin and is really starting first period 14-7. In the past three to move the puck. A .500 league games this trend has not persisted. percentage is certainly well within The icers success this weekend reach for us by Christmas." could hinge on their ability to grab 
One reason the Irish have begun an early control in the game. to come around is the play of Face-off time for the Colorado­senior winger Clarke Hamilton. Notre Dame matchup is set for 7:30 
Hamilton scored his first career hat EST. Tickets for the contest will be trick against Wisconsin last Friday on sale at Gate 3 before the game. night. The entire front line has 
Face-off time for the Colorado been skating better with more Notre Dame matchup is set for 7:30 agressive checking. EST. Ticketes for the contest will 
The defense has finally started be on sale at Gate 3 before the 
shaking off mental lapses that game. This will be the last time to characterized earlier play. The play see the Irish in action before of All-American defenseman Jack Christmas vacation as they travel to 
Brownschidle and the stingy net­Boston to take on perennial East minding of Len Moher and John Coast powers Boston College and Peterson have given th( Irish that Harvard. 
Swim team set to host invitationals 
by Ted Robinson Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame swim team opens the 1976-1977 season hosting the 13th annual Notre Dame Invi­tational Relays Friday evening at 7 
p.m. in the Rockne Memorial Pool. The other participating schools include Drury College, Bradley University, Oakland University, Wayne State Universtiy and Val­paraiso Univeristy. 
The Irish will be trying to end a three-year winning streak for Drury in the Relays, the last Irish victory coming int 1972. Drury, members of Division II in the NCAA, returns twelve All-American swimmers from last year's Nationals. 
For Coach Dennis Stark, this season holds many exciting pros­pects as he has 11 returning monogram swimmers. The 1976-77 Irish tankers are a young but experienced group of swimmers, and Stark is looking for a return to the 11-1 form of the 1974-75 (Notre Dame's best team). 
This year's squad will be cap­tained by Bill Scott of Indianapolis, only the second junior in the history of Notre Dame swimming to be awarded the honor of team captain. 
Scott is an extremely versatile 
swimmer who will perform in the 
freestyle events. 
Also returning is Ed Fitzsimons 
of Mt. Prospect, Ill., last year's 
Most Valuable Swimmer, in the 
spring freestyle. Pete Kinsella of 
Ladue, Mo., returns in the back­
stroke where he set a varsity record 
in 1976 at the lOO~yard distance. 
Bob Ebel of St. Louis, Mo., is Notre 
Dame's top diver and was the first 
Notre Dame representative in the 
NCAA championships two years 
ago.. 
New swimmers to watch are 
Scott Jessup, a graduate of Jackson 
High School, in the freestyle, Matt 
Dalton of Cumberland, R.I. (free­
style), and Tom Hartye of West­
field, N.J. (freestyle). 
After the relay meet, the Irish ­
take to the road to meet Cleveland 
State next Monday at 4 p.m. 
Ara's authors 
Bob Best and Tom Pagna, the · :1t1-•r" ·1f The Era Qf Ara will appear tomorrow in the Notre Dame bookstore from 9 a.m. to 
10:30 a.m. to autograph their book. 

