
------~------------------------­

server 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's
Vol. XI, No. 30 Monday, October 11, 1976 
Carter cites need forvoluntarism, new committment to civil rights 
by Gregg B. Bangs We'll use the structure of existing Carter revealed tht the U.S. PoUdcal Editor agencies and stress the using of spends three-tenths of one percent imd private volunteer programs." on foreign aid while other countries Patrick Cole Carter said he would use these spend five to seven tenths of one Political Writer volunteers to help in areas such as percent. He suggested that the schools, health clinics and Indian U.S. should spend more on foreign reservations. He would use people aid although he did not say how 
Democratic Presidential nominee of all ages to work in these much. Jimmy Carter called for voluntar-programs. "Retired people and Carter believes if all countries 
ism among the American people students, in particular, are vast would work together, we could to achieve a renewed commitment untappedresources, " he stated. "alleviate deprivation wherever it to civil and human rights on both exists." the dom~stic and international Calls for international commitment Hinting tht he is not pleased with levels in a speech yesterday at the the current policies on foreign aid, Center for Continuing Education Carter said the U.S. should "use Carter quoted United Nations En­(CCE). its power to alleviate suffering voy Richard Gardner, believing 
Speaking in a brief, 20-minute around the world.'' Gardner is ''not in favor of taxing session to nearly 400 people, Carter "Let it beknown that any nation, 'poor people in rich countries if we called for a new era of voluntarism -whatever its political system is, if it are continuing to give to rich to help others. "We spend deprives people of any basic right, people in poor countries.'' countless hours on idleness and that this fact will help shape our However, Carter denounced for­personal diversions," he said. own people's attitude to that eign aid being equated with mili­"What's needed is Presidential country," the Democratic Presi­tary arms sales. Restating his leadership to encourage and honor dential hopeful emphasized. comments of last Wednesday's service.'' "If other nations want our debate, Carter said we are be­
He said he wants to bring a "new friendship and support, they must coming the "arms merchants" of spiritof optimism, patriotism and understand we will want to see the world. He labeled this policy as self-sacrifice" as was seen under basic human rights respected," he cynical and dangerous, repeating the administrations of Franklin D. continued. the sentiments of his running mate, Roosevelt in 1933 and John F. Senator Walter F. Mondale, when Kennedy in 1961. Calls for more foreign aid he spoke here last month. 
Carter said in the recent past Carter also referred to the recent Jimmy Carter made a short talk more voluntarism [Photo by there has been "a lack of motiva­Carter said he does riot want all revelation that major corporations at the CCE Sunday, calling for Janet Carney] tion." If he became President, he foreign governments "to be like have been bribing major foreign very important, to broader con­elections, he will ask David T. Link,
would make "every effort to us," but wants all citizens to be governments. "We have seen the cepts of human rights. I hope this dean of the Notre Dame Law 
change idealism into good work," free from torture, have a right to disgraceful spectacle of our go­will be done expeditiously, and I School, to organize a conference on he said. form majority governments, the vernm¥nt condoning, sometimes 
will help it if I'm President to be a abortion. The purpose of this ''It is not enough to call for right to emigrate and the right to even encouraging, multi-national beacon of light to other countries of conference would be to "work for 
volunteers, a President must create worship. Carter indicated that "we corporations engaging in bribery of the world for constant assessment better solutions tha_n what we have climate, " he explained. "We have a deep commitment to allevi­foreign dignitaries. This is a today."
of what can be done in a world we
rlon't need a federal bureaucracy. ate suffering." dis~race to our country and it After his presentation, Carter
"lcknowledgement to be imper­
shouldn't be allowed to continue," 
'ect." was greeted at a private reception he said. 
held in his honor at the Morris Inn. Summing up his comments of Hesburgh suggests abortion Carter's presentation marked the 
Senior Formal Committee 
foreign aid, Carter said, "There 
conference second time the Democratic Presi­
are many things we can do. 'I want 
dential candidate appeared on the 
thisCenter (the Civil Rights Center) In his opening_ comments, Fr. Notre Dame campus. He last 
to shift their goals from strictly Theodore Hesburgh, University appeared in April 1976 during the 
domestic civil rights, which are still president, said that after the Indiana primary campaign. by John Tuskey Albert Pick Hotel, South Bend; the Staff Reporter South Bend Armory; the Mono­Reactions varied 
gram Room, Plamer House Hotel, The Senior Formal Committee Ambassador West Hotel and the has distributed a survey to the Conrad Hilton Hotel, ~II in Chi~ago 

distributes class survey 


Saturday classes not crowded 
senior class on a number of options for next spring's formal. Jay Pittas, Formal Committee by Alicia Denefe mented that she has a job and was go to .classes. One student com­
The survey lists possible loca­Chairman stated the survey has Staff Reporter unable to take the day off from mented that Udidn't interrupt hertions for the formal, along with the been distributed to almost all work. day to attend her one scheduledprice, distance, and capacity for seniors living on campus. How­class.
each site. It _is noted that capacity ever, he said distribution among A varit:tY of student opinions
Walking through the corridors of Most students added that the
is an important factor to be off-campus seniors has been more were voiced concerning the Satur­
O'Shaughnessy last Saturday, one Saturday classes didn't interfere
considered because there are ap­difficult. day classes. Many students felt the 
might not have realized classes with their Friday evening activities. 
proximately 2300 seniors at St. Pittas also noted that there have classes were an inconvenience.
were being held. The normal Kathy Kane, junior, said, "The
Mary's and Notre Dame. The been some complaints about bias in Some students had made previous
weekday bustle of acitvity was not bars were just as crowed as any
committee estimates that at least the wording of the survey. But, he commitments, and others said
apparent. other Friday night and parties were 
one third of the"class will wish to felt the survey gives all seniors an merely that Saturday was a day of
The decision to hold the Saturday still scheduled." 
attend the formal. opportunity to voice their opinions relaxation for them and it was
classes, said Dr. William Burke, English Prof. Richard Slabey
The possible locations the com­on the site of the formal. bothersome to attend classes an
Assistant Provost and a member of summed it up saying that althoughmittee has come up with are: The results of the survey are extra day.
the Academic Council, was made it was extra work, the upcomingHoliday Inn, St. Joe, Mich.; Holi­expected to be known by W ednes­because the University wants to The contrary view was that it vacation made it seem more pain­day Inn, Ramada lnp, and the day, according to Pittas. 
keep approximately a 40.-class-day wasn't that much of a problem to less. semester schedule. He noted that students are paying for their educa­tion and the students are the 
Archbishop Sheen speaks
sufferers if class days are omit­ted. Burke feels it "makes good sense" and it "doesn't cut short 

at Eucharistic Holy Hour
class participation with the profes­sors." . . 
Fr. Thomas. Blantz, Associate by Cral& I.embudl a )divine being with infinite powers Professor of History, and also a S~Reporter who had to assume the limitations member of the Academic Council, Archbishop Fulton J. Sheen de­of mankind. stated that the Council's decision livered a homily entitled "Jesus, Sheen also discussed the pro­was a "matter of our professional The Bread of Life" at the 33rd blem of those who did not attend obligation to education." He also annual Eucharistic Holy Hour at mass. He felt they did not realize noted that when the idea was the A.C.C. yesterday afternoon. the potential good which can be 
proposed, the majority of students The sermon was an e:~:planatiotJ derived from a "holy hour" witlt were in favor of it. 
of the significance of the ·Eucharist Christ. This "holy hour" could be
A number of professors, how­and a "recentdiscussion of the a mass or time ispeot in prayer. 
ever, make it apparent that they 
devaluation of the life of Christ." He demonstrated the possibili­
wqe -not happy with the added 
The benediction which was pre­ties by recalling two past ell:·
class day last week. Many stu­
ceded by a Sacred Concert of the periences. In each case, a girl,
dents said professors cancelled 
St. Matthews Cathedral Choir, was whose life situation was despon­
individual classes on Saturday. 
sponsored by the local Deanery dent, was convinced to spend some
Consequently, students with a full day of 'classes might only have had Council of Catholic Men, an as­time with Cluist. 1Cc!_llSeC)ueotly 
sembly of organization and church they both found a better way to · 
to attend two or three. Many students who did attend 
leaders representing 23 parishes five. classes noted that classes were not within the South Bend-Fort Wayne The Archbishop COQcluded "the nearly as full as on a normal diocese. closer we get to the Lord the more weekday. Many reasons are •p­in his sermon, Sheen described He lives for Ill. 'We will never be parent for the smaller than usual Jesus' life as a "life of humilia­truly in peace until we retum to laundrv service this weekend by hall. [Photo by Janet Carney] attendance.. One student com-tion." !le explained th.t J~sus was. the Lord,.. he said. 

the observer Monday, October 11, 1976 


~---News Briefs----­
I=========International Rocky's wife in Moscow 
MOSCOW -Happy Rockefeller, wife of Vice-President Nelson Rockefeller, arrived yes­terday in Moscow on what officials described as a private sight seeing tour. Mrs. Rockefeller, who was accompanied by her daughter, Wendy Murphy, and a cousin, Mrs. Marguerita Iselin, arrived in the Soviet capital after spending four days in Helsinki and Leningrad. 
~~~~~~=========Nationru 
Humphrey doing well 
NEW YORK -Sen. Hubert Humphrey was descried as "doing very, very well" yesterday. Dr. Willet F. Whitmore, who operated on the Minnesota Democrat for the removal of a cancerous bladder Thursday, called him a "model patient." 

Carter's. big mistake 
DES MOINES• Iowa-Ruth Carter Stapleton says her brother Jimmy Carter is making a big mistake in his campaign for the presidency. "he is not getting enough sleep sometimes,'' she said Saturday, adding the lack of rest occasionally causes him to be less alert than when he's well-rested. 
.___On Campus Today_. 
3:25, 4:30, 5:45p.m.­3:30p.m.­4 p.m.­
4:30p.m.­
7 p.m.­

asceat of. man film series --"the starry , messenger," engineering aud., sponsored by 
students of college of sciecne 
computer course--"vsbasic" rm. 115 math 
bldg. ' ' 
seminar --"recombination chemilumines­cence" by viktor 1. talroze, deputy director, rnsrtute of chemical physics, academy of scrence, u.s.s.r., conference room, rad. res. bldg. spons. by rad. lab. 
lecture-"an engineering approach to physio­logrcal systems" by dr. james randall indiana 
univ., galvin aud.  '  
meeting  -­ Chess  club,  rm  326,  math  and  
comp. center.  

by Alicia Denefe Staff Reporter 
Notre Dame professors Gene Bernstein of the English Depart­ment and Thomas Schlereth of the American Studies Department have been invited to present papers at a Bicentennial conference Oct. 13 and 14 in Terre Haute, Ind. The title of the conference is "Fictions and Facts: Dramatic License of the American Past" and will deal with the recent upsurge in fictionaliza­tion and dramatization of American history. 
''A lot of history has come forth in this Bicentennial year,'' noted Schlereth, and the purpose of the conference, he explained, is "to 
., bring together historians like my­self and people interested in liter­ary studies and people in film and television to explore how different media explore the past." There will be two different kinds of participants featured at the conference: people who teach at colleges and universities around the country and people in the media who create historical pro­grams and adapt them to forms other than history textbooks. The first group will produce "a set of academic presentations ex­ploring how ... dramatic license has been taken with the past," said Schlereth. The second group. he continued, will conduct their formal presentations through panels and discussions in an attempt to ex­plore "the way in which the American past has been used by novelists, playwrights, screen­writers, etc." Schlereth's presentation com­pares two historical novels dealing 
1hP Ob~erv..r 1~ pubiiShPd Monday through I nddy and Wt'l'~ly dunng thP <oumnwr ~P'>\IOn, !'XCPpt dunng thP !'Xdm dnd vacat1on pPnod~ ThP Ob-,Prver" publi'>hed by ~tudPnts ot thP UnlvPr\lt\· ot NotrP Dam!' and St MMy'' CoiiPgt' Suh'>< nptlon~ mdy hP purrhasPd for $20 ~wr yPar ($10 pPr SPillE''>tPr) from l hP Ob'>Pr­ver. Box Q, Notre Ddme, lnd1ana 4655h SPcond class postagP pa1d, NotrP Danw, lnd1ana 46556 
The Obserwr is a member of the AssonatPd PrPss All rpproduct10n nghts ar!' resNved 

ND professors to present papers at Indiana Bicentennial meeting 
St. Mary's girls desire ACC use 
by Honey McHugh Staff Reporter 
At present, only members of the 
Notre Dame faculty, staff, .and student body are permitted to use the A.C.C., but Notre Dame stu­dents are allowed to use the St. Mary's tennis courts. Therefore, St. Mary's students feel that they sltould be extended the same courtesies. 
''I'm not aware of the fact that Notre Dame students are using St. Mary's tennis courts," remarked 

Mr. John Plouff, managing director to use the facilities, according to of the A.C.C. According to the St. Plouff. The same policy holds true Mary s Security Staff, however, for the Rockne Memorial Center. "Notre Dame students are only "There's hardly enough room for permitted to use the courts when Notre Dame students", com­accompanied by a St. Mary's mented Ed Kazmiercak, supervisor student. They are guests." "Our of the "Rock". "Right now, we 
problem is free play," Plouff usually have a two-hour wait for the stated. St. Mary's has asked for racquet ball courts." use of one of our gymnasiums for "You need a Notre Dame J.D. 
varsity basketball practice and number to use the athletic facili­provisions have been made. The ties", stated one member of the St. 
A.C.C. has always maintained an Mary's student body. "Sometimes exclusive policy which does not in there's no problem at all, we just any way allow St. Mary's students sneak in after gym classes, but it's 
a hassle." 
~-------------------------------------------------, 
"If Notre Dame students can be our guests on St. Mary's tennis courts, why can't we be their
Concessions sites set 
guests in the A.C.C. ?" another St. Mary's student asked. the ND football home game 
"No policies have been made, as concession stand assignments for 
of yet, regarding outside groups the Oregon game, on Oct. 16, are 
using the St. Mary's athletic center as fellows: 
to be completed in the early spring of next," stated Stevie Wernig,organization site assistant dean of Student Affairs at SMC. "Until an athletic director 
Alumni Hall Sorin has been appointed and the build­ing has been completed, no decis­Breen-Phillips Hall Alumni ions will be made." 
Sorin Hall Dillon 
AIChE Crossroads 



r!~~d:o,~~sB:~kverl 
Asst. Night Editor: Joe Bauer Layout Shff: Paula Carroll Af!!. Chern. Soc. Cav/Fieldhouse 
Keenan Hall B-PI Fieldhouse ~ditorial Layout: Mike Richt~r 
Fe!'tures Layout: Chris SmithClass of '77 LaFortune Center Sports Layuut: Fred Herbst 
Typists: Gwen ColemanOass of '78 Law Building Stephanie Urillo -' 
1
E.M. T.: Martna Fanning,
Holy Cross Hall O'shag Stadium Rusty Espinosa 
Copy Reader: Maureen · 
Physics Club Eng. Building 
O'Brien · Copy Reader: Barb Breiten­Oass of '79 So. Dining Hall 
stein Math Club Badin Hall 
1Ad Layout: Tom Walrath J \;Photographer: Janet Carnet with events in the 1870's: Henry Adams' Democracy, published in 1880, and Gore Vidal's 1876, published in 1976. 
Because both books explore the prominent figures and relate the main events of the same period, Schlereth's purpose is to compare the method and style of writing historical fiction in the 19th and 20th centuries. Lastly, he wants to discuss Centennial and Bicenten­nial America. 
The result of his presentation, Schlereth said, is to show what can be done with historical fiction that can't be done with historical bio­graphies, and visa versa. 
Bernstein takes a slightly differ­ent approach in his presentation entitled "History and the Film Medium in 'Buffalo Bill and the Indians' '' which is based on the movie "Buffalo Bill and the Indians or \Sitting BuB's History Lesson." Bernstein explains that a11 we know of the history of the West is through Wild West movies, and wants to discuss whether or not it is possible to have a faithful verison of history through the media. 
"The movie de-mythologizes Buffalo Bill and other heroes like him." said Bernstein. Well-known actors in the movie are used to produce audience expectation of roles they normally play. However, the characters they portray are a parody of these other roles. 
The purpose is to show how "show business has dictated reali­ty," said Bernstein. The movie is in three parts, he explained. The first part is an honest depiction of Bufal.o Bill and his times, the second part is distorted sligthtly and the third part is a complete fabrication. 
The presentation will ''raise questions about how accurate his­tory is" and how it is the"natural tendency to distort history" said Bernstein. 
Both professors, along with others interested in the conference, submitted abstracts this summer of what they would discuss if they were invited to attend. Notification of acceptance was received by Bernstein and Schlereth at the end of the summer. 

FREE!!! 

Soft drink with 3 items 
• 
TACOS • BABV TACO 

• 
IIRRITOS • TAMALES 


• 
EICIIlADAS • TACO DOO 

• 
TOlTADOS • BEAN TACO 

• 
IARBEQUE TACO 

• 
SPAJIISI HOT DOO 

• 
CHEESEBUROER 




Specializing in vegetarian Foods. 


Wednesday, Oct. 13th 7:30pm -Morris Civic Auditorium 
South Bendrlndiana '.­
-,;;:\' -~ --. 

ADV. Tickets $5.501 
Morris Civic Auditorium Box Office and all River City Review Ticket Outlets! 
Coming OcL 17: Kansas & Point Bl~n.ld! !!' 




BRUCE 
by W.S.·Nichols 
photos by mark ricca 
As both a music a~nado md a critic, I often have to classify musicians in a short, abreviated collection of interesting facts and outstanding styles and ideas. I had Bruce Springsteen nicely capsualized, representing the best that the New Jersey beach clubs had ·to offer. Until Saturday night, that's all that this "savior" offered to me. 
Now, I think that I have some re-arrang­
ing to do to my filing system ... 
The ACC was comfortably half-filled, 
limited by Springsteen to about 7,000 
people. It didn't feel like the usual fishtank 
of crazies that evening. The band was 
fashionably late, wandering on stage about 
half an hour late. 
The attention of the crowd was captured 
by the openers, "Night" and an unknown 
number emphasized by some righteous 
drumming. The old-time cultists were sent 
into ectasy by "Spirits In the Night," from 
the old Greetings From Asbury Park 
album. Here, we met the crazy people 
that make up Bruce's typical, lower-mid­
dle-class, urban childhood, as presented by 
some of Bruce's present friends, like "Big 
Man'' Clarence Clemmons (sax) and 
"Miami Steve" VanZant (guitarist), some 
of the principal members of his E.-street 
Band. 
The night was pervaded with blazing sax, 
solos dominating the songs, while re­
markably fast and tasteful guitar licks filled 
in some of the quiet parts. This threesome 
then went on to a spacey guitar solo, 
reminiscent of the Sixties. 
Following this, Bruce just talked about 
his father sitting in a dark kitchen, 
drinking, while his mother slept in front of 
the TV. The narrative became emotional 
when he talked about his fights with his 
father about coming-in late. The mesmer­
ized crowd was led right into "It's Mv 
Life," a moldy-oldie made famous by the 
Animals back around '65 or '66. Bruce 
Springsteen set the stage, and nobody else 
could resurrect an old Animals tune, 
making it as emotional to a 1976 crowd as it 
was to a 1966 crowd 
Why? Basically Bruce Springsteen and 
his E-Street Band put all their energy into 
their performance. There was not a 
moment of inactivity. 
The band followed him perfectly, through each improvised turn of the songs. That was a big part of the concert because 
BRUCE SPRINGSTEEN 
(Brooz Sprwing'steen) n. 1. a punk from Red Bank, N.J., 27-years-old going on 17, play rock 'n roll. 2. the savior of rock music, the new Bob Dylan. 3. a gangly greaser, up from the Jersey beaches with a gritty, sung-out voice, has hyped his way into the cover of both Time and Newsweek (in the same week!) 
the songs that he sang on Saturday night and the recorded versions of the same songs are not the same. In his versions of "She's the One," "Growing UP," "Rosalita," he added at least one stanza to each st>ng. ­
All this time, Springsteen is jumping, bumping, screaming, begging, and playing a guitar. Yes, Springsteen can actually play that old Telecaster that he has strung around his neck. In fact he often traded guitar lead with VanZant, and he did them well. Bassist Gary W. Tallant followed his six-string counterparts well, periodically throwing-in fast riffs to prove his compe­tence. 
Pianist "Professor Roy" Bittan flowed through each song, soloing perfectly at each quiet spot on a piano that had been broken that afternoon during set-up. Organist Danny Federici provided the excellent but mysterious vibes that seemed to be an integral part of each song. He also played the first accordian I have seen since I quit watching Lawrence Welk. 
The "Memphis Sound" was provided by the super slick "Miami Horns, suits by Mr. Maietta" that sat in with the band for a couple of songs. 
-·~·~~ 

*Observer :_

Features 

The whole group mirrored Springsteen, showing an infectious eager energy for their music while presenting it in a flawless grace that comes only by playing too many nights in too many nameless bars. What Springsteen did was very simple: shake the crowd up, get'em back in their roots and. get'em on their feet. Moving, dancing, and loving every minute of it. 

From this oldie revival, he then went into the rocking "Thunder Road" and then a savage version of "She's The One". Then followed three songs from his successful Bom to Run album. ('·'Backstreets," "lOth Avenue Freeze-Out," "Jungleland"), one from the Greetings album: ("Growing Up"), and one soultul number that I don't know anything about, ("Something In The Night"). Each song was as energetic and as driving as the one before it. 
I should have known what was coming when he started talking about his "dog­chewed high school yearbook" but the blazing bersion of "Rosalita" caught me completely off··guard. This gem from The WUd, The Innocent, and The E-Street Shuffle prqvided a vehicle for the introduc­tion of the band and it was supposed to be the high-powered climax to the evening. At least, it was supposed to. 
The shattering crescendo at the end of the song was followed by an even-more deafining wall of cheering, stomping, clapping, waving and lit matches. The thoroughly-tired band returned to their instruments and cranked-out: "Fourth of July, Asbury Park" and "Raise Your Hand," two oldies that showed their rhythm and blues heretige. Springsteen also tried to lead the crowd in a E-Street chant but his voicl! gave out. He closed out the first encore, screaming to the crowd: "You wuz good, you wuz good!" He left completely drained and some house lights came on. But the crowd continued to chant and stomp and would not give up. 
Springsteen and the band came out once again. He could barely S{leak and the band looked like they had JUSt finished the Boston Marathon. The next song, "The Promise," is going to be on the next album, whenever that will be. It was peculiar in that the only intruments were a lonely piano (played by Springsteeen) and vibes. This quiet "car song" was then followed by the very familiar "Born To Run," as the band blasted-out one final song. It was interesting to note that Clemmons gave a powerful sax solo that seemed to give strength to Springsteen because his voice became stronger and he went on to take a guitar solo. You knew that Springsteen had given it his all when you heard his voice crack as he screamed: "Tramps like us, baby we were born to run!" and then, you knew that you had taken part in a complete performance. 
I know that I sound overly-lauditory in this review and I know that reviewers are supposed to be cynical and cutting in their summaries. But there is nothing to cut about this performance. It was pure rhythm and blues inthe real, live sense and it was pure emotion. That band worked hard at giving us the best concert, and they gave us a generally error-free concert. But it was that energy that Springsteen radiated on stage that made the perfor­mance that I saw on Saturday night, the most electrifying and driving concert that I have everseen. 

...... ______________
Monday, October 11, 1976 the observer 
5 

,~ . 
The God Who Gets 
1Too Close 
\I 
Right from the start the difference was B Fr B*ll Tooh I 
apparent. When Jesus made his appear-y . I ey 
I 
I I 
ance, the major emphasis was not on grim I warnings about perdition waiting just I around the corner. Instead, his words had a us with that of a man and woman coming sense of urgency, revealing his great together after an estrangement, and II desire to be with people. In that tremen-rekindling their Jove. In this context, God is I 
dous scene with Zacheus, we note the not father, he is husband. Hosea speaks of II astonishing thing he says. Not, "I might a lover seeking his beloved, and making I condescend to visit you," or ''I'm slum-plans for a wedding --a divine espousal: I ming this week and it's your turn today." "I will espouse you in love and mercy; I No, he says, "I must come to your house." will espouse you in fidelity." I I 
There is a sense of longing; he considers it Jesus, of course, d?Cs not help m~tters I I a favor if this man will offer him by using the same tmage of mamage. hospitality. Jesus, the manifestation of a God who I ­I 
Jesus reveals that our God is not would establish with us the most intimate I confined in churches, in sacraments, in the of ties, comes into our lives and proposes.• words of preachers or the high places of in the deepest sense of that word. He I heaven. He is the lover of persons, eager to proposes a love that is marked by a desire I dwell in the dwelling places of his people: that seeks union with the beloved. He their hearts. refers to himself as bridegroom, seeking I I 
A God like this seems to threaten a lot of intimate union with his bride, the church. I people. They would feel much more We can immediately see what a problem comfortable with a God wbo stays in the this causes. In our cufture, for example••I sky, who is mostly transcendent, who is our unfortunate Anglo-Saxon fundamen­I 
I 
remote and distant. We can deeply talist heritage makes it difficult for us to II appreciate the fact that God is love, that acceiJt adult-to-adult love in our spiritual-l love is the motivation behind all that he has ity. On the contrary, it seems most of us I done, from creation to the sending of his are comfortable only when we can deai son. We also rejoice in realizing the import with Christian love that is either parental I of the various images of God's love we find or child-like. I in the bible. It is like that of a father Devotion to the Baby Jesus or to the (''When Isreal was a child, then I loved Infant of Prague is a manifestation of I I 
him and called my son out of Egypt"); it is parent-to-child religious love. It is easy for like that of a mother ("Can a women forget others to belittle such an unbalanced 1 her nursing child, so as not to have pity on spirituality, writing it off with a comment
• 

I 
I the son of her own womb? Even should this like, "There is no longer a baby Jesus, and 1 be possible, yet I will never forget you"). there never was an infant of Prague." But Quite understandably, we are moved by what about the reverse concentration: a II this. We exult in the fact that God is a child-to-parent religious love? If God is seeker of women and men, the "Hound of only father, then we can never be 
1 

I 
Heaven." He is always making the first spiritually mature adults. II move; always pursuing; always trying to The Christian mystics and saints have draw closer. The lsrealites thought God's recognized the truth of this. Christian love II love was so marvelous they sang of it as a is not only brotherly or sisterly, fatherly or I miracle. motherly; it is also the love of the spouse.• The problem comes when we begin to We are called to "know" the Lord; and grasp what kind of a response he desires when the bible uses that word, it is the I from us. In reaction to hjs presence of love, same one employed when speaking of we may revere him, respect him, admire marital union ("Adam knew his wife, and II ]lim. But none of that gets at the heart of she was with child"). II the matter; for he is asking for something The famous Greek author, Kazantzakis, I quite different. The question (as Peter tells a true story of the occasion when he I tound out) is: "Do you love me?" God visited a saintly monk on a remote island. wants a return of love from us. Why should The author asked the monk: "Do you still. 
• 
anyone be surprised at this? This is the wrestle with the devil, Fr. Makarios?" expectation we hold when we offer our own "Not any longer, my child. I have· grown I 

• 
Jove to one another. Why should God be old and he has grown old with me. He limited to someting less? doesn't have the strength. I now wrestle I


• 

This is really what the word "religion" with God." "With God!" Kazantzakis I
I means. It comes from a word that means exclaimed with astonishment. ''And you "to bind together," "to establish a bond or hope to win?" "No," the monk answered.• covenant." To say it another way, religion "I hope to lose!" When I first heard that, I
• 

I 
I 
l is a relationship; a relationship of love. thought how revealing it was of my own I This may appear threatening enough (or attitude: I have been fighting God for a exciting enough, depending upon your long time --fighting him off! He shocks us I point of view), but there is more. The with the intimate nature of the love nature of the relationship of love is not just relations~ip he asks for. He boggles our I that of child to parent. Both the old and mind with an offer of a love that is I
Inew testaments put the relationship in unconditional. But perhaps the_ strangest terms of marriage. Hosea, for example, thing of all is his refusal to stop pursuing • yarallels the relationship between God and us, despite all our rejections. 1 
~-------------------~ 

I 6 the observer Monday, October 11, 1976 
Traffic deaths rise 
r 
t 
' 
~ 
l-

Swine flu vaccination avai·lable in two weeks 
vaccine has been prepared from by John Moran two types of flu virus. The first Staff Reporter protects against the A/New Jer­sey/76 strain, better known as Swine flu shots are to be made· swine flu virus. The second available to the general public of protects against the A/Victoria/75 the South Bend area starting today, strain. A minor epidemic of this according to Dr. Robert Thompson second strain occured here last 
of the Notre Dame Student Infir­winter, af(ecting about 300 N.D. ~!U'Y. But the vaccine is still two Students. weeks away for most Notre Dame­Thompson stressed that the spe­
St. Mary's students. cial vaccine would be given free to 
The shots given this week will be those desiring it, but that it will be a special "double dose" of the available this week only. vaccine for certain high risk groups The normal dosage of the vac­only. For most persons a case of cine, consisting of the A/New the swine flu would mean little Jersey/76 strain alone, will be more than a week of bedridden available in South Bend beginning fever, aches, pains, and missed next week. The vaccine inay be classes or absence from work. For obtained by ND-SMC students and others, however, the virus can be faculty at the Stepan Center upon serious to be life-threatening. return from mid-semester break. 
For persons with diabetes, heart, The vaccine for high risk groups 
lung or kidney diseases, or the will not be available on campus. elderly, the flu can easily lead to The following locations are those complications which can lead to nearest the campus where the shot 
fatalities. Therefore, a special may be obtained: 
Monday The Senior Citizens High Rise 12:30-2:30P.M. 500 Lincoln Way East 
Tuesday Cardinal Manor 9-llA.M. 118 S. Williams 
Wednesday Howard Park 12:30-2:30 604 East Jefferson 
Thursday Gospel Missionary Church. 12:30-2:30P.M. 930 30th Street 
Friday ~otrheast Neighborhood Center 12:30-2:30P.M. 803 North Notre Dame Ave 

Sixteen die in Indiana traffiC 
AP-At least 16 persons died in Authorities said a Whitestown Dick D. First, 52, of New Castle, traffic accidents in Indiana this man, Harold Giles, 24, was killed died Saturday morning in a two-car weekend, including four in a sin­Saturday night when he lost control smash-up at the intersection of gle-car wreck outside of Muncie. of his car and slammed into a tree Indiana 109 and Indiana 234 nfear 
The weekend fatalities bring the on a Boone County road near Wilkinson. first failed to heed a 1976 traffic death toll to 990-116 Lebanon. stop sign and red flasher, authori­more than at this time last year. Abner Mamers, 63, of rural ties said. 
State police said four Muncie Pierceton, died Saturday when his Two Cedar Lake men died Satur­residents were killed Friday night car ran off U.S. 24 and struck a day morning when their car struck when their car struck an unknown bridge railing near Wolcott in a utility pole along a Lake County object on Indiana 32. Authorities White County. nfear Lowell split in half and burst believe the object may have fallen Benton Allred, 34, of Chesterton, into flames. Authorities identified out of a truck traveling along the was killed Saturday morning when the victims as Ronald R. Rain-· highway.-his pickup truck turned into the a water, 26, and Craig Lee Arm­
The victims were identified as bridge abutment on Indiana 130 in strong, 28. William Benedict, 52; Floyd Tay­Porter county. Richard E. Van patton, 54, of lor, 52; Ray Finch, 59; and Emma Police said Virgil Jarvis, 43, of rural Oakton, was killed early Finch, 54. Waveland, was killed early Satur­Saturday when the truck in which 
Two cars traveling along Indiana day when his pickup truck turned he was riding crashed into a car on 45 near Bloomington Saturday into the path of a semi-trailer on a Knox County road four miles west afternoon crashed head-on, killing U.S.36 near Rockville. of Sickness. both drivers. Dead are Peggy A Chicago woman, Theodora W. An lnianapolis infant was killed Murphy, 27, of Lawrenceville, and Gianakis, 39, was killed Saturday early Saturday when the car her Randy Bonham, 21, of Blooming­morning when the car in which she fatehr was driving ran off a Boone ton. was riding· ran off a curve on County road five miles west of 
Indiana 47 near Crawfordsville. Zionsville. Police have ordered an 
UMW president Police said she was thrown from autopsy to determine the cause of the car when it flipped over end five-month-old Rebecca Martin's over end. death.
denies allegations 

WASIDNGTON AP-United Mine Workers President Arnold Miller said yesterday that charges that his 

BROTHER RICE 
dismissal of two aides was political­ly motivated are "absurd and totally without foundation in fact." 

HIGH SCHOOL
The dismissal was based on my "assessment of their job perfor­mance. It was not based on who they support for union office," 
Chicago, Illinois 
Miller said in a statement. 


CLASS OF'77
Belfast mob attacks leaders 
presents
of Irish women's peace group 


HOMECOMING '76 
BELFAST• Northern Ireland, AP­Iiams' husband, a seaman, and found in an alley in the Protestant The 'tWo\ top leaders of the wo­Ciaran McKeown, a former Dublin town of Baltvmena. The deaths men's peace movement in Nor­editor now devoting . his time to raised to at least 1,634 the number thern Ireland narrowly escaped organizing the peace movement. ''LOOK INTO THE 
killed in Ulster's more than seven
injury IJte yesterday from a club­

The four managed to get safely . years of strife. 
swinging mob that wrecked the 

inside. A taxi driver who was at the· Leaders of the peace movement FUTURE''cars they had been riding in. 
meeting and had his cab at the back in Londonderry called a downto;>wnBetty Williams, 32-year-old of the hall later drove them home rally for this afternoon to protest a founder of the movement, and safely. recent surge of violence in Nor­Pep Assembly Friday, October 15, 11:45 
Mairead 1Corrigan, 23-year-old co­

thern lrland's second-largest city. 
leader, were rushed by the mob The mob has earlier attacked a 
Mrs. Williams and Miss Corri­
.vhen they arrived for a meeting at British patrol in the district, seek­Friday, October 15, 8:00
gan flew to the United States under Sock Hop a community center in a Roman ing to avenge the death of a tight security last ~eek and filmed 
Catholic district of western Belfast. 13-year-old boy whose skull was 
an appeal to Americans for the
fractured by an army plastic bullet Public Broadcasting Service to halt Football vs. De La Salle Sunday 1:00 Several hundred persons, some last week. 
brandishing clubsand sticks, were financial contributions to the Irish Semi;.formal Dance Republican Army (IRA). 
waiting outside the hall when the Brian Stewart died yesterday in a 
Sunday, October 17, 1976
women drove 'up in two cars. They hospital, and the severely beaten 
Respondiqg to their campaign,
vere ,accompanied by Mrs. Wit-and burned body of a man was the IRA ordered followers to step up propaganda against the peace movement. The Roman Catholic

'nterhall football dominated 
bishop of Londonderry accused the IRA yesterday of a "smear cam­paign'' against the peace move­

by defense, low scoring 
ment. by Chuck Dressman 
with only a minute left to play. 
The Most Rev. Edward Daly,
Sports Writer Olivk also ran for the extra point. 

speaking in County Donegal in the 
Cavanaugh's stingy defense was
lnterhall football moved into the Irish Republic, denied claims in the 
led by linebacker Ralph Miranda
third week of the season with three IRA's propaganda drive that the
and. noseguard Joe Scally. Mean­
typically hard hitting, defensive "peace people" are protesting only 
while, middle-guard Rick Roche 
games on Sunday. In the opener, IRA violence and not attacks by
spearheaded the defense which BUNCH-OF-LUNCH 
2

Flanner whipped Holy Cross 14-8, Protestant extremists or British
stymied Cavanaugh's attack des­
Zahm followed suit by upeuding occupation troops in Ulster. 1
pite the workhorse efforts of half­
Keenan 8-3 and Stanford shutout 11 •.~ .!~~oc.~~ _T,oo~:!~•••·$ 1~ 
back Larry Morris.
Cavanaugh 8-0. 

Pizza-Chicken-Spaghetti-Salad ~:~s 
Zahm 8 • Keenan 3 Flanner 14 • Holy Cross 8 Ages 1 0 and under 20c per year 
In one of the season's hardest A hard fought defensive game 
hitting games, Zahm edged Kee­turned into an exciting offensive ALL MAJOR SPORTS nan, 8-3. The victors scored first in show as Flanner scored twice in the 
ON 7FT T.V.
the initial period on the strength of fourth quarter to defeat Holy Cross 
an 80-yard sustained drive. The 14-8. The first three quarters were touchdown came when Mark Wur­dominated by the defenses with zel recovered teammate Pedro Flanner'$ Chris Lunning and Rich Pujal's fumble. Wruzel, the game's Neville continually making the -=­


Sunday Beer!
~-FRAN SAYS
offensive standout, then ran for the big plays. , 
/ _!. LESSON IS:
two point conversion to give Zahm Flanner brok.11Jhe deadlock early 
an 8-0 lead. · in the fourth period when Paul Gil­Rock 'N Roll 
BEER AND WINE 7 DAYS AWEEK 
From that point, it was a bruising lespie sprinted 35 yards for a score. 
AT 

difensive struggle which featured Phil Volpe followed with the con­
NOTRE DAME 
the aggressive play os Zahm's Ron version to gove Flanner an 8-0 lead. 
LAFORTUNE BALLROOM
Tucker, Mike Stenger, and Steve Reserve quarterback Chuck Sullenick. Keenan's defense, play­Nowland then entered the game for ON i 
ing equally as well, kept the Holy <::ross and got the offense MON. EVE flt8ClT ft1 outcome in doubt. However, the moving with some nifty funning. 7 P.M. SHARP .17(a offense couldn't get untracked, and Npwland scored on a sneak and 
A LESSON EVERY MONDAY
the losers only points came on a ailded the conversion to tie the 
$2 EACH LESSON
37-yard field goal by Ed Danko. score at 8-8. 
Flanner responded with an 80­
ALWAYS A BEGINNER
yard drive, highlighted by a 50yardStanford 8 • Cavanauah 0 LESSONpass from quarterback Mark Coons 
In a dramatic finish, Stanford to back Chris Nagle. Nagle then OVER 100 NOW IN CLASS turned back Cavanaugh, 8-0 on a scored the winning touchdown on a COME ALONE, GROUP . 30-yard pass from quarterback 20 yar~ toss from Coons with only 
:>DATE ---· 
Dom Garda to halfback Ray Oliv two minutes remaining. ­
Monday, October 11, 1976 the observer 
1Demos for Ford' survey 


Notre Dame prefers Ford 

by Mary Anne Tighe Staff Reporter 
Fifty percent of the students at Notre Dame would vote for Gerald Ford if the presidential election were held now according to Jim Kresse, chairman of the Notre Dame-St. Mary's Democrats for Ford. 
At a recent meeting, Kresse revealed the results of a random 
· telephone survey, which indicated that only twenty five percent of the students polled would vote for Jimmy Carter. Four percent said they would vote for Eugene McCar­thy while twenty-one percent would vote for someone else or were undecided. 
In a surprise· announcement, Kresse also disclosed that Mike Gassman, Notre Dame 'student Body President.. would support candidate Ford. 
The purpose ofthe meeting, held last Friday in LaFortune audi­torium, was to discuss the results ofthe survey, which was conductt'd 

RA selection criteria revised 
by Mary Ellen Keenan Staff Reporter 

Fr. Terry Lally, Notre Dame Assistant Vice-President of Student Affairs, has announced major revi­sions in the resident assistant selection process. 
The changes involve procedures for letters of recommendation and the overall student evaluation. In addition, proof of financial need must be shown in order to receive the hall staff position. 
The resident assistants serve as hall staff members in the twenty dorms and receive credit on their financial accounts equal to the room and board fees. There are 117 resident assistants at Notre Dame, creating a student-R.A. ' ratio of approximately SO to one. 
Fr; Lally believes the revised methods will improve the R.A. selection process and is not worried that qualified candidates will be rejected by the Financial Aid Office. Their approval is required because of the recent administra­tion policy decision to ·give campus employment priority to those stu­dents who have financial need. 
Lally stated that June McCaus­lin, Director of Financial Aid. told him most sutdents would be able to ' show financial need. However, Student Affairs plans to institute a process for special consideration of those candidates deemed ineligible by McCauslin's office. 
In addition to this new policy, the evaluaton criteria and letters of recommendation procedures have also been revised. 
In the past, candidates submit­ted recommendations from hall staff members, professors, and fellow students. However. Fr. Lally stated that a level of objecti-
Beloit College 

vity has been difficult to maintain in these letters because frequently the professors really do not know the student involved and a candi­date will ask a good friend to write the recommendation. 
Such evaluations are "useless," Lally declared. For the 1977 applications, evaluations by teach­ers and students have been elimin­ated. Three recommendations are still required, though, and they must be completed by head staff members and previous employers. These people will be asked to relate an incident in which the candidate exhibited some of the qualities upon which he has been evaluated. 
The final revision 1n the R.A. selection procedure is the shift in the decision-making process from the Office of Student Affairs to the individual hall staffs. Candidates must now list dorm preferences and these halls will conduct the 
R.A. interviews. 
One change in the application procedure which was not put into effect this year was required psychological testing. The idea was not approved, Lally stated, because they feared such testing might prove too threatening to candidates. Also, many profes­sionals have devalued the impor­tance of such tests in recent years, thereby making their long-range value questionable. 
With the announcement of these procedural changes, Fr. Lally also establidhed a tentative timetable for the entire R.A. selection pro­cess. 
Applications for resident assis­tantwill be available late this week in the Office of Student Affairs. Students have until Dec. 1 to complete the applications and se­cure the letters of recommenda­tion. 
The list of approved candidates will be released by Feb. 1, 1977, and hall staffs will then conduct interviews with the applicants. Final decisions will be cleared through the Financial Aid Office and announced by March 1, 1977. 
Fr. Lally concluded by stating the reforms in the R.A. process are/ 
a "definite improvement". However, Anne Eisele, a resi­
. dent assistant in Walsh Hall, was concerned that the recommenda­tions by previous employers would place undue emphasis on profes­sionalism. She stated that an employer could not necessarily evaluate the personal qualities of a candidate because of thlilo limited job contact. Fellow students are much more aware of a candidate's total personality, Eis 

Cancer Institute criticized for delaying fund usage 
The National Cancer Institute is then refuses to provide a mere $3 under attack for its failure to million for a program to protect pursue research into suspected workers from cancer-causing cancer-causing industrial chemi-agents, even when directed to do so cals. Rep. David Obey (D., Wise.) by Congress," Obey said. says the Institute has refused to Ob~y charged that a number of heed legislation requiring it to research efforts have been delayed 
spend $3 million on occupational or cut back by the tie-up of funds, \h H b h cancer research. including a follow-up of examina­t0 0n0r es Urg . NCI has long been criticized for tion of kepone workers to deter­its concentration on research to mine the long-range effects of their ~ather Theodore M. Hesburgh, find a cure for cancer, rather than exposure to the pesticide. Job Umversity President,will be honored to discover and eliminate carcino-Health News Service reprots that 
by Beloit College in Wisconsin this 

Thursday, Oct. 14. 
Hesburgh is one of four d:stin­

guished Americans Beloit College 
has chosen to honor as part of a 
campus observance of the Bicen­
tennnial. 
Along with Hesburgh, U.S. At­torney GeneralEdward H. Levi, ant~ropoligist Margaret Mead and busmess woman Catherine B. Cleary will receive doctor of hu­mane letters degrees and address faculty and students at the convo­
cation. M~rtha Peterson, president of Bel01t College, discribed the hono­rees as "individuals representing by his or her life and work the quest for excellence consistent with the college's traditional goals and edu­cational programs." 
gens (cancer-causing agents) from other research affected included the environment. "It's hard to studies to determine methods now believe that with a $775 million available to protect workers from budget, NCI spends less than six cancer causing substances in foun percent on its own carcinogenesis -dries, smelters and textile fi­program for testing chemicals and nishing operations. _
T-.....;;;.._____..;;;...._________..;;_..;~---...::;..-----, 
NOTRE DAME-SAINT1MARY'S THEATRE ANNOUNCES TRYOUTS FOR 
A DELICATE BALANCE by Edward Albee 
Tues. Od. 12 & Wecl. Od. 13-7:30 p.m•. Utne Theatre
--. Callbacks Od. 14-7:30p.m.-O'Laughlin 
Audition information available in Speech 
and Drama OHice Rm. 11 0, Moreau Hall, 1Saint Mary's 
on Tuesday, Oct. 5, and Wednes­
day, Oct. 6. According to Kresse, 
there has been an interest in 
determining the outcome of the 
impending election. With a ninety 
nine percent accuracy, the poll 
shows that Notre Dame students 
clearly prefer President Ford over 
Jimmy Carter. Kresse also noted 
the significance of Gassman's en­
dorsement. 
The factqrs of sex, party affilia­tion, geographical region, and po-• litical spectrum were taken into consideration throughout the pre­sidential preference poll. Jimmy Carter led ·only \n two c~tegories -­among liberals and Uem·l~rats. President Ford led among both sexes, and the four geographical regions of the nation which Notre Dame students are from. Ford was a favorite among Independents and Republicans, as well as moderates and conservatives. 
Kresse was pleased that the survey also showed that eighty­seven percent of the Notre Dame student body plans to vote in the November elections. Only eleven percent of those interviewed said that they would not vote, and two percent were undecided. 
The survey was conducted before Wednesday night's debate be­tween Carter and Ford. Kresse acknowledged that the results of the debate might have changed sentiments somewhat, but not ·sig­
nificantly. 
TYPEWRITER REPAIR 
2915 

The subject of abortion was raised as a possible reason for student's preference of Ford over Carter. However, this issue was not discussed during the telephone survey because abortion was not as big an issue as assumed during this campaign. 
The Notre Dame-St. Mary's Democrats for Ford Committee was organized in September. The group consists of active Democrats who prefer President Ford to Jimmy Carter. 
Chad Tiedemann, head of Notre 
Dame-St. Marry's College Repub­licans, was also present at the LaFortune meeting. His group plans to cooperate with the Notre Dame-St.Mary's Democrats for Ford limiting most of their activi­1ie~ to the campus. 
Cleveland Club cancels bus 

The Notre Dame-St. Mary's Cleveland Club will not charter a bus for the mid-semester break, ,due to a lack of interest. 
25¢ 
BEERS 
AT LOUIES MON·-THURS· all night pool-pinball-pizza 

michaeL:s 
hairsta..,LinQ
etc. 

FOR APPT. CALL: 272-7222 18381EDISON RD. AT SO. BEND AVE. 

_and _Notr_e Dame Student Union 
opin ion :!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
Box Q, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 Phone•(219)283-8661 [ND] 
(219)284-5365 [SMC]
"*The Observer 
Freedom's End
an independent student newspaper 
serving notre dame and st. mary's 
Tile Observer is published by students of the University of Notre Dame and St..Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and as objectively. as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions and letters are the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and letters are encouraged to promote the free expression of varying opinions. on campus. 
Business Manager Tom Fronczak 
Advertising Manager Mike t?tiller 
F:wto Editor Tony Chifari 
Production Manager Martha L. ~='anning 
1\----­1 Monday, October 11, 1976 
EDITORIAL BOARD Thomas O'Neil Editor-in-Chief Dan Sanchez Managing Editor Chris Smith Asst. Managing Ed. Gregg Bangs E:xecutive· Editor Val Zurblis Executive Editor Pat Hanifin Editorial Editor Bob Mader Exec. News Editor. Maureen Flynn Campus Editor Marti Hogan St. Mary's Editor Don. Reimer Copy EditrJr Tim O'Reiley Features Editor Fred Herbst Sports Editor 

~P.O.BoxQ 
LIFE! 

Dear Editor: 
The problem of the legality and morality of abortion, if indeed they can or should be separated, has spawned mountains of commentary in all forms of communication media, expecially with the coming presidential election. The ques­tions raised are usually valid ones and typically reflect a conflict over the right of a woman to control her own body and the rights of the unborn child. Certainly, a woman has the right to control her own body, indeed, a duty. But is the fetus part of her body? 
Both of these areas of concern, as well as many other tacks often taken by pro-and anti-abor­tionists, evade or neglect, per,haps purposely or unavoidably, what I believe to be a basic question too infrequently asked. That is, what does it mean to be a human being? Hopefully, few would deny the humanity of a new born baby or that of its septagenarian grand­parents. Yet there are awesome differences between them reflected in the status of their physical and intellectual development. How different, then is a fetus in the second of third trimester from the embryo of the first other than their physical and, perhaps, intellectual 
development\? What is apparent, hopefully, is that from the moment of fertilization to that of death, and perhaps beyond, human life is a series of developmental events shaping an individual into just that,' the unique expression of her or his own potential, a potential which lessens as the toll of time is realized. 
While the use of tools, communication, and abstraction might no longer be .CQ!lsidered characteri_stic traits of endeavors, to control not only who and what we are but also who and what.we might become. That is, to control our evolution, our biological and intellectual potential. A human being is then an individual capable of controlling the reali­zation 'of its own biological and intellectual potential, and of in­fluencing that of others. 
What then of abortion? Should that human potential, established at conception, be allowed to realize itself? And what of the woman who has her own potential to realize, yet might not due to an unwanted pregnancy? As our world popu­lation overtakes its ability to ·feed itself, do we dare add to the number of hungry mouths? Then, too, dare we risk the loss of the human potential? 
I may have done little or nothing to answer the problem of abortion. Indeed, I may only have added to that mountain of commentary. Sorrowfully, for many of you I have succeeded only in boring you as you stuffed your\faces. But I dare you to try to answer, satisfactorily, for yourselv.es, just what does it mean to be a human beingl Good luckI 
LaWTenceJ.~o~ 

Disgusted 
·by Ford 

Dear Editor: 
Nearly 20 years ago this month my parents and I .es~aped from Hungary. So strong was our desire to break away from the tyranny and oppression of the Russi~n-backed Communist regime that we were willing to ·escape at the risk of our lives. In light of this background, as well as with subsequent visits to Hungary, I must express my dis­agreement and disgust with Ford's assertion that the Eastern Bloc nations are autonomous and free of expatriates have maintained for years: that the governments of these particular nations derive their strength not from the consent of their governed, but by the force of Soviet arms. 
President Ford's statement is an affront to all Americans who hr.ve relatives there or are descended from the nations involvfd, 
Russia's colonial empire in Eastern Europe is a world disgrace, and as such should be the object of open criticism, not denial. 
Leslie Farkas 
Disgusted 
by 

Oberserver 
Dear Editor: 
The published reactions of some 
· ND-SMC professors to Mr. Ford's Eastern European blunder (Oct. 8 ObserverO prompts my' reaction to the Observer's slovenly reporting. Surely the presidential campaign has not become so oppressively tedious as to demand such concern over precipitous statements on the part of either candidate. The main repercussion of Mr. Ford's blunder is that ''it will overshadow every­thing else," reports Ms. Breiten­stein. Why? Because such analyses as those · in the Observer will appear, ad nauseam, for the dura­tion of the campaign. 
This is the type of irresponsible journalism which, at worst, causes droves of voters to don blinders and regard gaffes as issues; at best, it stimulated ~tnewed apathy among tripe-weary citizens. I beg of you, ladies and gentlemen of the press, spare us the in-depth commentary on Mr. Carter's Playboy philoso­phies and Mr. Ford's nervous inanities in your future election year coverage. 
robert jacques 
In reference to the anarchist philosophy of the late 1800's Bar­bara Tuchman writes, "It was the last cry of individual man, the last movement among the masses on behalf of individual liberty, the last hope of living unregulated, the last fist shaken against the encroaching State, before the State, the party, the union, the organization closed in." · 
Tuchman is correct. This cen­tury has seen the rise of the organization man and, with it, the loss of not only true individual freedom, but also the hope of ever regaining it. To have their wills done men are foredoomed to buy stock in groups for the price of their freedom and the hidden cost of · their hope. The matter at hand is the loss of men's very souls and all semblance of self-respect. 
This must certainly seem unlike­ly in an age of the loosening of normative shakles, the burning of societal contracts, the idolatry of individuality; when its foremost thinker cries, "Man is condemned to be free." 
But consider modern "anar-, chists." Now called terrorists, all work for organizations. After a bombing, the claim for the deed is not made for the freedom of men, but for the group who sponsored the bomb and bomber. Even the non-terrorist, now-sacrosanct stu­dent uprising of the late '60s were dominated by structures such as the SDS. The individual's good has taken second place to that of the group. Red China (The People's Republic of-note the name) exem­plifies this trend. 
This impotency goes far beyond terrorism. It pervades every aspect of life. For every reason, for every cause, for every change there is a group to get it done. If someone wants phosphates taken out of detergents, he forms a group complete with officers and a name (usually some hideous acronym). When the cause is achieved, the group disbands. 
The advantages are overwhelm­ing. There is power in a group, expecially one with a letterhead. It can't be pushed around or ignored. It unites otherwise diverse people for a cause. It provides shelter behind which each person can hide so as to . maintain security and · anonymity. 
The last is the key. People fear revenge and retribution, even a challenge to their beliefs, to where it becomes an unconscious obses­sion. They want to be left alone in their own little houses where 
DOONESBURY · 

security "and sterility flourish hand in hand. So extensive and inten­sive is the "Don't-rock-the-com­munity mentality" that they prefer to curse under their breaths from behind a curtain at a neighbor's dog on their lawn, and then take a bromo. They have their dreams ­dreams of power and the self -but these too are sterile and pathetic. 
This all seems absurd-this per­vasive sense of impotence-consid­ering that never before has man had such great knowledge of his world and his past, and never before has he had such technologi­cal supremacy. Never before has there been such diversity of endea­vor nor such power behind them. Yet, ironically, these creations of strength are the very causes of weakness,_ 
As the knowledge of the world has become · more minutely de­tailed, the organizations have be­come larger and more domineer­ing. Government becomes larger and more impersonal, sticking its hand into everyone's pocket and life. Corporations become larger and fewer, reducing the number of choices to make. Retail chains come to treat customers as unfor­tunate necessities. Suburbs grow larger and ever larger lawns, thus incrasing the size of buffer zone to the unknown next door. 
People have become little more than objects or parcels that are bandied about by the forces of a rigorous civilization. The results are problems not unlike those felt by the Jews before Jesus' birth; the responses also take on a religious air. A person can accept Christian­ity and vie for a better life after death. He can grasp a program like Marxism and struggle for the imminent overthrow of the exploit­ative forces. He can leap into an aspect of life, thereby blinding himself to the problems of reality and creating his own, little world. He can see life as hopeless absurd­ity, as if it were a bad cosmic joke, and laugh at and ridicule it as well as himself. Of course, suicide is always a viable alternative. 
These choices will proably be available until a massive revamp­ing of society and thought occurs to remove the feeling of forsaken hopelessness. Again, China is an example of such a possibility, even though it means are unpalatable to most "free" people. 
In such an undersirable position as most people find themselves today, it is at least some consola­tion that they are free to choose the means by which they can face their lack of freedom. 
by Garry Trudeau 
11/A!TU I IA/Ett., 7RY70 TelL THE l.AfJS BE HOME BY /JOUJN Jrr 71-IE FOfJR, /JFAI?£5Tl!1/{)(fBONSO­fVE INVIT£!1) THE CIETY 701JAY! PRJNTMEOIA 
" 
FOR TEA!/ 
Blll; L.ACEY/

OICJ<, I WANT MY 
SPIEETE5Tl

JlJST THE CAMPA16N COVERAGE 
NO ONE lA/lNS

PRiNTMEOlA? 70 BE 016NIFIED! I'M 
WITHOUT

NO TEl£-eotN6 7lJ URtiE THE 
TEt.EVISION!
V/5/0N? PRES5 70 WRJT£3 
\
\ SHOKT, TASTE:RJL
'J ES5A)S/ 

Homo sapiens alone, singularly, we Cordially,
· Soviet influence. 
appear to be attaining the capabili­.-Such a position is contrary to John A. Banllng, '77 . ties, through social and scientific wh'\t innumerable travelers and 
-..:r ,.. 

NFL Summary 
Saints romp 

NEW ORLEANS AP -New Orleans Saints linebacker Jim Merlo picked off a pass at his own 17-yard-line and returned. it 83 yards f?r a touchdown, starting a landslide that ended w1th a 30-0 victory over the Atlanta Falcons. 
Skins beaten 

WASHINGTON AP -Quarterback Mike Living­ston's "flea-flicker" 36-yard pass to Larry Brunson in the final seconds gave the Kansas City Chiefs their first victory of the season, a 33-30 win over the favored Washington Redskins. 
Livingston handed off to Woody Green, who gave the ball to wide receiver Hnery Marshall, who turned and lateralled to Livingston, who fired the ball to Brunson on the eight-yard-line and ran it in with 1:04 remaining. 
Bears fall short 
BLOOMINGTON, MINN. AP -The undefeated Minnesota Vikings built a 17-0 halftime lead, then fought off a ferocious second-half comeback by the Chicago Bears for a 20-19 National Football League victory Sunday. 
The Bears suffered a blocked extra point and placekicker Bob Thomas missed another that would have tied the game 20-20 in the fourth quarter. 
Giants still winless 
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. AP-Dallas quarter­back Roger Staubach completed 13 of 15 passes and the unbeaten Cowboys capitalized on numerous New York mistakes to record a 24-14 victory Sunday and ruin the Giants' National Football League debut at the sparkling Giants Stadium. 
Pack rallies 

MILWAUKEE AP-Lynn Dickey passed for 215 yards, including 66 to Steve Odom for a touchdown, while Bartv Smith rushed for 84 yards and two other scores to rally the Green Bay Packers to a 27-20 victory Sunday over winless Seattle. 
Oilers win 

HOUSTON AP -A determined 14-yard touch­down run by Fred Willis and Skip Butler's 18-yard field goal allowed the Houston Oilers to overcome missed. scoring chances and defeat the Denver Broncos 17;3 Sunday in a National Football League game. 
Raiders win by 10 
SAN DIEGO AP -San Diego's dreams ofrevenge against Oakland fizzled Sunday as quarterback Ken Stabler tossed three touchdown passes to lead the Raiders to a 27-17 National Football League victory. 
Cards bomb Philly 
ST. LOUIS AP -Jim Hart threw a 49-yard touchdown pass to Mel Gray and the opportun­btic St. Louis Cardinals took advantage of a series of Philadelphia Eagles' mistakes for a 33-14 National Football League triumph Sunday. 
The Cardinals, boosting their record to 4-1, fell behind by 7-0 in the opening quarter before taking advantage of the first of two fumbles by Dave Hampton. 
Patriots upset 
PONTIAC, MICH. AP-Greg Landry threw three touchdown passes, two to rookie tight end David Hill, as the Detroit Lions surprised the New England Patriots with a 30-10 National Football League victory Sunday. 
Steelers lose again 
CLEVELAND AP-Don Cockroft kicked four field goals and David Mays a World Football League refugee quarterback playing in place of the injured Brian Sipe, directed the Cleveland Browns to a third-period touchdown and a 18-16 National Football League upset of the Pittsburgh Steelers. 
Jets gain win 
NEW YORK AP -Pa-t Leahy's 38-yard field goal with 48 seconds remaining lifted the New York Jets to their first victory of the National Football League season Sunday, a 17-14 triumph over the Buffalo Bills. 
A spectacular 67-yard punt return by Keith Moody, a rookie from Syracuse, of Buffalo with four minutes left to play had tied the score 14-14. But the Jets drove 69 yards in eight plays to set up the winning kick. 
Colts trimuph 
BALTIMORE AP -Quarterback Bert Jones completed nine consecutive passes on four straight Baltimore scoring drives leading the Colts to a 28-14 victory over the Miami Dolphins i:-~ a National Football League game Sunday. 
Jones ran for one touchdown and passed 10 ) ards to Glenn Doughty for another as the Colts, 4-1, broke a tie with New England, which lost 30-10 to Detroit, and took over first palce in the Eastern Division of the American Conference. 
.-,...
Monday, October 11, 1976 the observer 
7 

Season hockey tickets to be available to students 
present only his own ID. StudentsSeason hockey tickets will be wishing adjacent seating mustavailable to students beginning purchase their tickets at the sameTuesday. 

time.

These tickets will be on sale on a There are three types of student first-come, first-serve basis at the tickets available to students this#3 Ticket Window on the second year. There are eight two-gamesfloor of the ACC. Notre Dame series this season. A ticket for allstudents may purchase their tickets 16 games costs students $16 and aon Tuesday, Oct. 12 and W ednes­student's spouse $24. Students canday, Oct. 13 from 9a.m. to 4p.m. 
also purchase a first-game-of-the­St. Mary's students may purchase series-ticket or a second-game-of­tickets on Thursday, Oct. 14 from 

the-~eries-ticket which would enti­

9a.m. to 4p.m. Each student amy tle a student to see either the first game or the second game of each of the eight home series. Each of these tickets are $8 apiece for
%Observer 
students and $12 for a student's spouse. No seas<m tickets will be
Sports 
sold after Oct. 14. Single game tickets are $1.50 for students with presentation of an ID card.

,................... 
t ALL SMC CLUBS AND : 
:oRGANIZATIONS WHO WAN-.: 
: STUDENT GOVERNMENT : 
: FUNDS FOR THE 1976-77 : 
: SCHOOL YEAR : 
: MUST SUBMIT A PROPOSAL ~ 
: TO P. 0. BOX 1028 LE MANS. t BY •
. :
t FRIDAY, OCT. 15. 4 
: QUESTIONS : 
: CALL LAURIE AT 4946. • 
...................~ 
Let a smile be your umbrella on  a  
Notices FREE!!! 10-week old kitten  (male).  rainy day, but I need my light browr wrap-tie raincoat! Reward. Call Karen -6994.  Need ride to Ft. Lauderdale-W. P. B. area October Break. Tim 1868.  
Call Terry 3888. ADIDAS-shoes (57 varieties), shirts, bags. etc. Quick orders. See catalog  Lost: 2 rings in vicinity of ROTC buildings. High school-green stone; and turquoise with mother of pearl.  Classified Ads  Two need ride to Baton Rouge. Call Terese 7879 or Anne 7848.  To the Walsh Shower Singer-You'll live 'till you die and it may be soon! Morning Crabs  
GS Farley Chris or Mary 3982. Hotel or motel room needed  for  Reward offered. 233-4222.  Please call  Kevin  Going south for break? Desperately need ride to Southern Illinois, Indiana or thereabouts. Call Missy,  Gumby . Sooner or later you bend my way. Pokey  I'll make  
parents Oct. 15 and-or 16. Please call Anne 1362. Will teach you flute in your spare time. For info call Beth 8112. Accurate, fast typing. Mrs. Donoho 232-0746. Hours: 8 am to 8 pm. Morrissey Loan Fund $20-150. l day wait. l percent interest. Due in 30 days LaFortune Basement. M-F 11:15-12:15. Greyhound Bus to Chicago leaves circle every Friday at 4:45. Call Tom at 8338 by midnigh-t Thursday for seat reservations and further info.  Lost: Gold initial rin<1 "GVO" in O'Shag last year. Call Gregory 8856. Lost: Gold St. Mary's class ring. Engraveq with Mary Ester Hall, BS, 78. Reward. Call 4524. Wanted Help wanted: waitresses, full, part­time; must be 21. Apply Fat Wally's, 2046 South Bend Ave. 4-7 pm. Urgently need a Barna ticket for a returnin<l Domer! Call Maureen at 4829. - Help! Need ride to Oklahoma City or thereabouts. Promise to provide good food, jokes. driving & $$. Call Greg 8856. Ride needed-near New Hampshire­Massachusetts-Vermont border. October break. Please call ed-1160. HELP! Need ride to Danbury, Conn. (break) will share. Mark 3481. 1have 4 GA Ore<1on tix. Must trade tor 2 GA Barna tix. Call Kevin, 1183. Need ride to Bin<1hamton or Ithaca, NY for Oct. break. Will share  3750. Millionaire Minnesota ND fan's BILLIONAIRE Uncle DEMANDS 2 ALABAMA GA'S. Unlimited-er funds!!! Uncle Dave 8528. Help, ride to Pittsburgh needed. Call Nick after ll :00 pm. 8382. For Sale For Sale: 1972 BMW 2002 silver, sun roof, 4 spd. Rebuilt trans. head no rust! (sou. carl ansa exhaust. $3250 or offer. Call (616) 471-6765, collect.  Gunman has returned. Morrissey's Bert Reynolds . When are you gonna pose for the center­fold of the Harvey W alshbanger? South Dinah Hall Fans Anyone not going home for Oct. break who wants to stay in Chicago call Debbie at 4-5758. AAS How were the do<1s after I left? Also. ROTC Jock, how were the pies?? G Attention Regina North: The Merek has returned.  
ND Club sponsors tour to USC.ND game plus one week in sunny Hawaii. Game ticket included. De­part Nov. 27 & return Dec. 6. $520.00 from ChicaC]o. Call 1577 for details. · NOTICE: Fat Wally's now deliver­ing pizzas and sandwiches, Monday­Saturday, 8 till midnight. Minimum order $3.00. Phone 277-0570. For Rent For Rent: Furnished six and four bedroom houses couple blocks from Notre Dame. Also single rooms. 277-3604 evenings. Furnished apartment for rent. 2 bedcrooms, utilities furnished, pri­vate bath & entrance, no pets, quiet adults, deposit. Forest Ave. off Portage. 291-0556. Lost & Found Lost: Texas Instruments SR-11 in Organic lecture 'bout 2 weeks ago. Please help me keep my head above the rising Physics-infested waters. Call 291-8329 after 5 :00 pm, Mark. Can identify it.  Experienced guitarist seeking to form Rock and Roll Band with other students. Must be experienced also, and must have own equipment. Call Bob at 1487. Need 7 GA Ore<1on tickets. 259-0631 after 5:00 pm. · Need ride to central New York, near Binghamton or Syracuse preferably. Can leave Saturday pm. Call Mary Kay 6874. Wanted: two GA Alabama tickets. Call Ron 1203. Need four Oregon tickets. Call Debbie 4728. I WANT TO GO HOME-urgently need ride to and from BERGEN CO. NEW JERSEY or NEW YORK CITY A REA. Will share expenses and driving. Call Mark 1200. --------------­Need ONE Alabama ticket. Call Robbie 8706. Desperately need up to 5 GA tickets for Miami game for Mom, Dad & the Kids. Call Peg or Rose at 4682. MILLIONAIRE Irish fan from Min­nesota must have 4 GA Barna tix. UNLIMITED FUNDS!! Call Dan  driving & $. Please call Jill 1333. I need ride to MINNESOTA for Oct. break. Call Steve 1478. Need 2 GA Ore<1on tix. Call Dick 1204. -Ride to Toledo this Friday. Call Peggy 8125. Need 2 Barna tix for parents who never have been to an ND game. Mary 8125. Addressers wanted Immediately! Work at home--no experience nec­essary--excellent pay. Write Ameri­can Service, Suite 132, Minne­apolis, Mn. 55426. Need 2 GA Bama tix desperately. Call 1785. Help! Need 2 GA Oregon tickets. ·Call Gregg at 1650. Ride needed to Wash. D. C. area for Oct. break. Call Donna 8112. Field Interviewers Male or Female. Must have car and be willing to work evenings and Saturdays. No selling­draw available if you are good. Call ·Mr. Slade at 277-3191 for appoint­ment.  Personals Happy 20th Birthday Hinkle-Dinkle! You're a legend! Love. The Pimps. C.J.C. MICHELE JAWARSKI is 21 today. For a B-day kiss you'll never forget. congratulate her t, --.ight at the Library. Dear Blond in History, You are gorgeous. Dave and Dave Delch inski-1 want some cookies or no ride! Pup Hey Steve, Comparative Anatomy Lab this afternoon. If "Ya wanna get lucky" be there!! Happy 21st. M, S & K Dear ~.>uys, Do you realize that Diebles only went in the lake once on his B-day??? I'm disappointed! G Nurse Michelle, If all nurses were as pretty as you, The world would be a nicer place to get sick in. My thoughts will be with you Friday night. Love, A "patient" admirer  Hey Julie, uan't bag it! 1 really do like you. The Birthday Boy MUNCH, HAPPY 20th. This calls for a new broom and dustpan! Love, "VanGo" and ,the "Port-a Party" Poor Richey! You had a bad head­ache. But was that any reason to LEAVE me like you did? Mike was mad at the mess we lett in his back seat. Chic 0' Peama Room 005 Pangborn is being thor­oughly abused. Hi Boo Boo, Should 1 chame the net? Yogi · -Today is R. Mazzei's 20th B-day. All those wishing to abuse him meet tonight at Nii::kie's at ll pm or call 6939. Bare, Hope it was "the best." Okai, fine! Naked Joes Dear Toads, Thanks for making my B-day great! But you forgot the alfalfa!! Love. Dingle-Dwarf (alias Farrah-with Fat Lips??) Joanie dear, have a great birthday. Love, your 5 dwrafs  l  
Found: one Rockwell calculator. Identify where lost and model and its yours once more. Call 291-8329  1420. Associated Cleaning Service needs one male to work on campus from 9  Need ride to Washington D.C. or vicinity over break. Share expenses. Call Stacey 4412.  Joe's sooo slow.... Ed · Why do you look pictures than in real  bigger in life? We  Would you like fo realize wIzard? Call Sheila 7967.  the  
after 5 :00 pm. Mark  pm to l am 5 days a week. Pay rate $2.40 an hour. Responsible indivi­ Need riders to Quad-City area Oct. 16. Call 272-2401.  thought cameras didn't lie. . lusioned & Disappointed  Disal­ 
clual only. Inquire at 232-7441.  

-• 8 the observer Monday, October 11, 1976 
WSND hockey coverage put on ice 

by Paul Steven110n the University and hockey ~ives us take feeders from other stations." 
Sports Writer the opportunity to be creative." The situation presented is that Home games will be aired on whoever does broadcast the gameWSND-AM. However, the AM will probably not be from the Notre 
The Notre Dame hockey season 

broadcasting can only be heard on Dame community. Thus, by taking is just weeks away from opening, the University proper and not in the feed from other stations, an accur­and many followers may be expect­South Bend area, so sponsorship ate and unbiased evaluation of the ing to hear the play by play of the cannot be found for hockey cover­game will be hard to attain.
Irish icers on WSND-FM. How­

age on AM. The 'main idea is whether or not
ever, don't tune in your radio the University has the right to tellprematurely, because you won't be "The campus along with the the station what they are allowed to 

hearing hockey. town seems to be very excited broadcast. ''The main objective the about the hockey program, asLast year, WSND-FM broad­University tried to establish is thatevidenced by the turnout at the first casted 34 out of 37 hockey games, the station's r,urpose is to broad­Hockey Expo,'' Sports Information the only matches not aired being cast fine arts, ' Fr. Terrence Lally, Department student assistant inthree games during Christmas a representative for the Universitycharge of hockey Chip Scanlonbreak. This year, due to restraints commented. "Hockey has limitednoted. "It's a shame, that with the administered by the University, and educational value, qualitiescaliber of the team, that they willnone of the contests will be heard which are desired in the station."
not have the deserved publicity." 
over the station. The Irish icers appreciate any
An argument posed by Robinson WSND received a letter from the publicity they receive. "The hockeyis that the hockey coverage willUniversity last Friday stating that program is interested in studentonly use five hours out of thetheir FM station would not be and town support, and one of the 
allowed to broadcast any hockey weekly 116 that WSND is on the most helpful methods is througp
confrontations. The major reason air. Hockey is the only sport which media,'' Head Hockey Coach LeftyWSND-FM has broadcasted and
cited for the decision was that FM Smith stated. "We would be most

the total time it takes away fromis basically a fine arts station and happy to have WSND broadcast our 
the fine arts portion is minimal.
that WSND was filling this need in 

games, however I'm not familiar the South Bend Community. The major problem is that if with the policies of the station and 
"If WSND decided to broadcast WSND-FM does not broadcast the regulations of the University." hockey, the University would re­hockey games, then coverage will There is definitely a conflict of lease our station manager and cut be next to nothing. WNDU may interests between the University off the station from the University cover some away games on AM. and WSND. Although many be­broadcasting funds." stated Ted "We are working on a schedule lieve that Notre Dame does not Robinson, sports director at which will allow us to cover a have the right to control the WSND. limited amount of away games," broadcasting of WSND, the situa­
"There is no communications Charles Lindster, program director tion still remains. Unless a change major at Notre Dame and WSND is for WNDU-AM/FM radio revealed. is made, fans will be hearing home the only way to Jearn the radio "We don't really have anyone that Irish hockey games on WSND-AM industry," Robinson added. "We is qualified to cover the contests, so and a limited number of contests are billed as the creative sound of there is a possibility that we will via WNDU-AM. 
Royals bounce back, tie playoffs 
KANSAS CITY AP -Left-bander h1ts as the Royals came from Splittoriffs last victory had come Paul Splittorff, Ninless since July, behind for the victory. on July 22. Five days latter, he was came out of the bullpen and pitched Rookie Tom Poquette drove in hurt, and for the next six weeks the the Kansas City Royals to a 7-3 vic-two of the Kansas City runs with a Royals had to get along without 
clutch single and double, and John him. It was a major loss because tory over the New York Yankees 
Splittorff had become the mainMayberry snapped a 0-for-23'Sunday night, tying the American starter for Kansas City followingslumb against the Yankees withLeague playoff series at one victory the loss of Steve· Busby. 
another key RBI single.
apiece. But most of all, this vital victory When he was reactivated in 
The best-of-five series moves to September, he pitched only three

belongs to the left-bander, who
New York for Game Three Tuesday times and was ineffective in each of 

spent six weeks this summer on the
night. those appearances. But he wiped
disabled Jist, suffering from ten­Splittorff hurled shutout ball for dinitis in the middle finger of his out those bad memories with 5 2-3 innings, permitting just four pit~hing hand. Sunday night's performance. 
Wisconsin wins 

ND invitational draws 40 teams 
by Gregory Solman victory. Shoemaker of Ball State· team scoring was Edinboro in andRorem of Eastern Illinois Un­second place, University of Mich-
Sports Writer 

iversity placed fourth and fifth
The Notre Dame Invitational was igan in third, Ball State in fourth
respectively.
run last Friday at Notre Dame, and and Bowling Green if fifth. Notre a field consisting of · forty Dennis ·vanderCraats was the Dame finished 13 in the field of 40 collegiate teams provided what Joe first Irish daler to cross the finish teams. 
Piane described as being "a very line. VanderCraats placed twenty­In the Notre Dame invitationalinteresting meet." fifth out of the field of two hundren open meet, Mike Larson running
In the collegiate race, the first of and sixty-four runners and beat out independently, won the meet with three meets that was run at the golf the team captain, Jim Reinhart, a 23:40.2 time, and broke the course, Greg Meyer of the Univer­who ran a very strong thirty-sec­former record for the race. 
sity of Michigan paced the field at a ond. Coach Joe Piane said that Dike Stirrett of Eastern Illinois
23:24.02 clip. Second in the race Reinhart had probably, "ran out a University came in just eleven was Mark Johnson of the Univer­little too hard." He also noted seconds behind Larson, and was 
sity of Wisconsin, who, along with 

VanderCraats fine performance. followed by Hallop of Saginaw, Jurt his teammate Lacy, who polled of NDTC, and Behnke of UCTC. 
third, led Wisconsin to the team Placing behind Wisconsin in 
Pat Holleran, a graduate student here at Notre Dame, inelligible to run in the collegiate meet, placed seventh in the open meet. Holleran was also seventh in this year's U.S. Olympic Trials in the 5,000 meter event, and presently helps mem­bers of the Notre Dame Cross.. Country team train. 
Joe Strohman was the big sur­prise in the open meet, as he placed 46th in the field of 143. His time of25:38 was better than five of the seven Notre Dame Harriers that were entered in the collegiate race. The plucky sophomore stun­ned everyone with his perfor­mance, including Piane,. who com­mented, "I thought I had put my best seven runners in the collegiate race, but Joe proved ine wrong. It is very hard to predict who is going to run strongly on a given day." 
In the are11 high school invita­tional, Elkhart Central palced first ahead of Plymouth and John Ad­ams. Elkhart was led by first place finisher Poalillo and followed by Fox of Plymouth, Butterworth os South Bend Riley, Szajko of South 
.. 
Bend Adams and Boener of Ply­mouth. The Irish harriers will next be in Notre Dame finished 13 in action on Saturday in a dual meet with Loyala. 
the field of 40 teams entered 



able to do hockey due to a decision llanded down to .them by the University. [Photo by Tony Chifari] 

Irish women netters win 
1he women's varsity tennis ,team After· Shukis' close second set
shutout Manchester College in a victory senior Ellen Callahan ad­match held last Thursday afternoon roitly disposed of the opposition 6 at Manchester College. 
to 2 in the first set and 6 to 4 in the Captain Jane Lammers paced the second set. Her 6-4 victory in theIrish victory by beating her oppon­second set was to be the closest ent 6 to 2 in the first set and by that Manchester College came topommelling her 6 to 0 in the second victory for the rest of the day in set. Mary Shukis, the number one singles competition. Freshmanplayer, hand a more difficult Paddy Mullin was one of those who time in earning her talley, as she proved this point as she routed her defeated her opponent 6-4, 7-5. 
opponent 6-2 and 6-1. 

Richie 'call me Dick' Allen errs, Reds ahead by two 
PHILADELPHIA AP -First base­bander Jim Kaat in the 3:15p.m. 
man Dick Allen's critical, bases­EDT, game. 
loaded two-run error on Tony Jim Lonborg, an 18-game winner 
Perez's liner in Cincinnati's four­and two-time v1ctor over Cincinnati 
run sixth inning gave the Reds a during the regular season, was 
6-2 victory Sunday over the Phil­working on a no-hitter and 2-0 lead 
adelphia Phillies and a command­betbre the roof caved in on him and 
ing 2-0 lead in their National the Phillies in the sixth inning. 
League playoff series. 

The Red,s, defending world' champions and easy winners this B-ball tryouts year of the Western Division title, can wrap up the best-of-five series 
Varsity basketball tryouts for all Tuesday in Cincinnati. They will 
interested students will be held this Friday, Oct. 15, in the auxiliarysend right-hander Gary Nolan ag­gym of the Athletic and Convoca­ainst the Eastern Division champ­
ion Phillies, who will start left­tion Center. 
Tix on sale tomorrow 
Season basketball tickets will be nesday, Oct. 27. The student's available to students beginning deposit will either be refunded of Tuesday, Oct. 12. The cost of a applied toward purchase of a reserve seat season ticket will be bleacher seat. $32 for the lower arena and $24 for Any students who did not make a the bleachers. There is a limit of deposit last spring, but would now one ticket per student. These costs like to purchase a season ticket may average out to $2 per game for a do so after midsemester break. lower arena seat and $1.50 per Seniors may purchase tickets from game for a bleacher seat as 9a.m. to noon on Wednesday, Oct. compared with the public reserved 27; juniors, law and graduate seat price of $4 and $3. Approxim­students on the same day from ately 5,000 seats will be held for 1p.m. to 4p.m.; married students students. and sophomores on Thursday Oct. 
28, from 9a.m. to 4p.m.; freshmen Those Notre students who made on Friday, Oct. 29, from 9a.m. toa deposit in the spring to reserve a 4p.m. These hours include theticket for the basketball season can noon hour.
obtain their ticket at the Ticket 
Married sutednts desirous ofSales Windows on the second floor purchasing adjacent tickets forof the ACC from 9a.m. to 4p.m. 
their spouse must waive their class (includiilg the noon hour) on Tues­
priority as stated above and waitday, Oct. 12 through Friday, Oct. 
until Thursday, Oct. 28. Tickets for 15. 
the married student will be S24 
Upon presentation of a student plus $28 for the spouse's tickets,lD the "Balance Due" will be only bleacher seats are available. 
collected and the student will St. Mary's students will also receive his ticket. Seating priority have an opportunity to purchase was determined at the ttme of tickets according to the above 
deposit in the spring, so the time schedule. The price for St. Mary'sand day that a student obtains his 
studllflts will be the same as the 
ticket will not affect where he is No~ Dame students, $24. How­seated. The Ticket Office will ever, only bleacher seats will be accept only one lD and one avallable for sale. 
payment from one student. 
Notre Dame & St. Mary's stu­If a student does not obtain his dents wishing to sit toget.lter must ticket b~fore Friday, Oct. 15, that purchase their tickets consecutively 
student will lose his seating P.rior­according to class priority. The 
ity. All unclaimed tickets will be Ticket Office will accept one ID and offered . for sale beginning Wed-one payment from one individual. 
... 
_.; 









