

FROM AMONG HUNDREDS: THE TYPICAL DELEGATE. (Photo by Chris Smith) 
unrvf>rsrty of notre dame sl mory's college Vol. X, No. 107 Friday, March 26, 1976 
Roemer warns: Undercover state agents patrol in bars 

by Frank Tennant Staff Reporter 
Dean of Students James Roemer said local authorities informed him that three Notre Dame students would be issuod affidavits for their arrest. The three sold drugs to local undercover agents. 
Roemer yesterday clarified state­ments which appeared in the Observer prior to break. He does not know when the sales occurred or what substance was sold. 
The affidavits have not been issued yet. The agents usually remain undercover for tive or six months and all affidavits arc held for this time, according to Roemer. Once an affidavit is issued, the agent becomes knowm. 
Roemer revealed the purchases were not made on campus and that the undercover agents were not on campus. 
Asked about the agents on campus, Roemer replied, "I will cooperate with authorities 100 per­cent if informed that authorities knew students were selling drugs on campus." This could mean bringing undercover agents on campus. 
Roemer explained the procedure used by law enforcement agencies. Thev use new recruits on the force who arc not known as law enforce­ment officers. and they patrol the local bars students attend. Roemer warned that undercover agents blend in with college students as they are usually in the same age group. 
The only agencies able to enter campus are the Indiana State Police and St. Joe County Sheriffs. Roemer said they need not ask permission to come on campus. South Bend Police jurisdiction does not extend to Notre Dame. 
The three agencies listed all conduct constant undercover oper­ations according to Roemer. They have full time vice squads. 
"I have no sympathy at all for students apprehended and con­victed of selling drugs," stated Roemer. "People who break the law are on their own." 
While Roemer may help a stu­dent in trouble with local authori­ties in other situations, he said he would not help in the case of drug violations. 
"It would mess up his case if I kicked a guy out of school before he was tried.'' He will await the court decision and then abide by it. 
Selling drugs is a felony. Roemer pointed out the difference between a felony and a misdemeanor is that a felony is punishable by a state prison sentence. He added, from his experience as City Attorney, the prosecutor in South Bend always treats sale of drugs as a felony. 
Roemer hopes the publicity makes students more aware of the seriousness of what they are doing. He warned students to think of their futures before engaging in drug activity. "I don't know of any law school or medical school who will accept a student convicted of selling drugs," he said. "Jobs are equally hard to get when one has a record." 
Survey of delegates to Mock Convention brings up surprises 
by PhU Cackley only 10 percent said they had five 
Senior Staff Reporter or more such courses. One reason 
for this could have been the large 
In a survey of the delegates to percentage of freshmen and sopho­
the Mock Democratic Political Con­mores who were delegates.
vention taken the week before the Freshmen accounted for over, 26 
convention the delegates said they percent of the delegates, while 23 
would vote for a candidate first if percent were sophomores. Only 18 
he supported their personal views, percent of the delegates were 
second if he supported their consti­seniors, and the largest total wa~ 
tuents and lastly if he was "Elect­held by juniors with 32 percent.
able." 
The survey clearly contradicted Women Involved 
the outcome of the convention, held 
March 3-6, where Sen. Hubert The delegates were 64 percent
Humphrey was nominated the male and 46 percent female, show­
Presidential candidate on the sixth ing the increased involvement of 
ballot as a "compromise candi­Notre Dame women in this year's 
date" and the "only man who can event, which was the first ever with 
win it for the Democrats in Novem­a coed student body.
ber." Reynolds said the statistics 
About 43 percent of the delegates underscored female participation in responded to the 20-question poll the convention. He noted two of the which was part of a sociology largest delegations, New York and project conducted by Mark Fried­Pennsylvania, were chaired by en, the convention's press secre­women this year. tary. The poll was intended primar­Mark Frieden, conductor of the ily as a ''study of the attitudes and poll, pointed out the fi_gurcs the the earliest political socialization the delegates' political party align­processes of the delegates." ment match up well with national 
A number of interesting facts figures. Democrats accounted for and attitudes were brought to light 45 percent of the delegates while by the survey. These showed the the nation claims to be 44 percent delegates rated themselves some­Democratic. what above average in political Republicans had 17.5 percent of interest and activity, most fellow the delegates and have a figure of political events "regularly" and 21 percent nationally. lndepen­"pay much attention" to political dants were 35 percent of the events and the majority have never delegates, which is the identical taken a government course. level for the nation. 
There appeared to be a contra­
Typical delegate diction between the degree of the 
delegates' political involvement 
The survey showed the average and discussions and the amount of delegate to be a male freshman or attention the delegates pay to junior, either a Democrat or an political events. Independant, most apt to discuss A large percentage of the dele­politics with friends some of the gates, 66 percent, discuss politics time--rather than a great deal--and "some," while 28 percent discuss never to have taken a government it a "great deal". Friends and course. family members were listed as the 
The average delegate also would two highest groups with which to not be a member of a voluntary talk about politics. In addition, a group (such as Knights of Colum­relatively low figure of 5.5, on a bus), feels the Federal government scale of one to eight, was the rating has some influence on his life, of political interest and activity for thinks it is possible to influence the average delegate. political processes to some extent, At the same time, delegates who and rates his political interest and said they paid "much attention" to activity at about 5.5 on a scale of political events numbered 65 per­one to eight (with eight being the cent, with only 31 percent claiming most active). to pay "little attention" to politics. 
One of the biggest surprises A comparable number of dele­was the large number of delegates gates--56 percent--said they follow with no government courses, while politics regularly. 

Prime-minister not elected; British to hold run-off(s) 
by Frank Coleman least two years in which to prepare 
Associated Press Writer for the next election which must 
come by 1979. 
LONDON AP-Britain's govern­Under the British system the 
ing Labor party failed yesterday, as ruling party chooses its new leader 
expected, to elect a new prime and he or she becomes prime 
minister on its first ballot. . minister with the virtually assured 
Left-wing Employment Secretary assent of Queen Elizabeth 11. Labor 
Michael Foot got 90 votes, the most chooses its leader with members of 
in the initial poll, but senior Parliament voting by secret ballot. 
political sources predicted the next In Thursday's balloting, Home 
prime minister will be James Secretary Roy Jenkins placed be­
Callaghan, the middle-of-the-road hind Foot and Callaghan with 56 
foreign secretary, who came in votes followed by Energy Secretary 
second with 84 votes on the first Tony Benn, 37 votes; Chancellor of 
ballot. the Exchequer Denis Healey, 30 
The winner needs more than half votes, and Environment Secretary 
the Labor votes in Parliament to Anthony Crosland, 17 votes. 
win. There are 317 Laborites who Because the ballot was inconclu­
can cast ballots in the House of sive, a second vote will be taken 
Commons but three Scottish nat­Tuesday and a third if necessary, 
ionalists who broke away from the on April 5. 
party are abstaining. This means Under the party's rules, Crosland 
the winner needs at least 158 of the as bottom man was eliminated. 
remaining 314 votes to get the Bcnn and Jenkins dropped out. 
prime ministership. The second round will have a 
The political sources, including a maximum of three candidates be­top strategist behind outgoing cause now new contestants can Prime Minister Harold Wilson's enter the race. successful election campaigns, said Sources predicting an eventual they rrow expect Callaghan to win Callaghan win said before Thurs­on a third ballot scheduled April 5. day's result was announced that he Wilson stunned the nation last would need at least 80 votes in the week by announcing his resigna­first round for "plain sailing" and tion after two years in office. He would be in trouble if he got less wanted to give his · su'ctessor at than 70. 



Friday, March 26, 1976

2 the observer 


-On Campus Today-----. 
12 a.m. -10 p.m. --show, antique show. ace. 
12:15 
p.m. 

12:15 
p.m. 


3-6 p.m. 
3:15p.m. 
4:30p.m. 
5:15p.m. 6:30p.m. 
7,9,11 p.m. 
8 p.m. 
8 p.m. 
8:15p.m. 
9-11 p.m. 1 'a.m. .,s a.m. 

q a.m. 
12-10 p.m. 7,9,11 p.m. 8 p.m. 
8 p.m. 
12 a.m. 
12:15 a.m. 
sunday 12-5 p.m. 7 p.m. 
7:30p.m. 
8:15p.m. 
2 a.rn. 
12 15 a.m. 
*The Observer 
Night Editor: Chris Smith Assistant Night Editor: Joe Layout Staff: Frank Kebe 
Day Editor: Kathy McEntee 
Copy Readers: Don Reimer, 
Kathy Mills, Jack D' Aurora, Editorials: Jim Eder Features: Clytemnestra 
Sports: Bob Brink, Etc. Typists: Camille Arrieh, Terry Harlan, Morey Blinder, Marie McCarthy Night Controller: Martha Fan­ning 
Ad Layout: Tom Walrath & 
Sally Dentz 
The Observer is published Nooday 1t1rough Friday and \1/eekly during the surrrnet" session, except during the exam; <Wld vacation periodS. The Observer is published by the students Of 1t1e Univ. Of Notre Dame and St. Miry's College. Subscriptions may be 
r 
purd\ased for 518 ($10 per semester) fro-n The Ob!;erver:, Box Q, Notre Dame, indi<Wla 46556. Sealnd Class postage paid, Notre Dame, IN 46556.
~ 
--mass, Iafortune ballroom. 
--travelogue, "japan" by paul weinstein, room 278 galvin auditorium. sponsored by biology dept. 
--happy hour at kubiak's, sponsored by stanford hall and mccandless hall. 
--colloquium, "does language matter in philosophy" by richard rorty, princeton univ. library lounge. sponsored by philosophy dept. 
--reilly lectures, "mechanisms in plasmacytoma­genesis" by dr. michael potter. room 123 nieuwland science hall. 
--mass & dinner, bulla shed. 
--banquet, midwest history of science banquet with guest speaker prof. edward grant, indiana univ. "some reflections on aristotelianism and the historical problem of medieval science." center for continuing education. 
--movie, "the gambler" engineering aud. sponsored by student union. tickets $1. 
--"the star spangled girl" presented by the Nazz. 
--smc coffeehouse, 9 -rex delcamp, mike tsuboda; 10 -jeanne riphey. 
--world travel series, "kentucky-tennessee exper­ience" by jee adair. o'laughlin aud. sponsored by south bend lions club. tickets $2. 
--concert, nd concert band, ace. 
--the album hour, wsnd 640 am. 
--"george the friendly mainstream" wsnd 88.9 fm, the best in jazz for you. 
--meeting, midwest history of science society, center for continuing education. --show, antique show, ace. 
--movie, "the gambler", engineering aud. --concert, we together singers. o'laughlin aud. tickets available at the door. 
--"the star spangled girl" presented by the Nazz. --the album hour, wsnd 640 am. --nocturne night flight, wsnd 88.9 fm. the best in 
progressive rock, jazz, and blues. tonight's host: jorge lopez. 
--show, antique show. ace. --memorial program for the late rev. martin luther 
king, jr. sacred heart church. reception following in law school lounge. --concert, uriah heep. ace. tickets $5 (bleachers 
only). --concert, nd glee club. washington hall. --the album hour, wsnd 640 am. --nocturne night flight, wsnd 88.9 fm. the best in 
progressive rock, jazz and blues. tonight's host: 
dave szymanski. 

NEW CONCEPT In balrstyUng for Men lOCATED on our lower level with Its own private entrance way. COMPlETE PRIVACY In our Individual styUng units. SIP COFFEE by the fireplace In a relaxed atmosphere. FAST SERVICE for carefree cuts and blow styles. WE FEATURE RK products. 
MANICURES for men  $4  PRECISION CUTS  $5  
HAIRCUTS  $4  BLOW STYLING  $4.50  
PFRMANENT WAVING by NATURAL MAN $1 .00 OFF A PRECISION CUT WITH BLOW STYLING WITH YOUR NO OR SMC 10.  $25  

ueen'~ ( a~tlr ,~JG~~~ 
54533 TERRACE LANE Tues., Wed., Sat. 8:30 -5:30, T,hurs. & Fri. 8:30 -8:30 
PHONE ~77..: 1691 



Junta strengthens control; Argentine media censored 
by Alfonso Chardy Associated Press Writer 

BUENOS AIRES, Argentina (AP) -Many of deposed President Isabel Peron's ministers and aides as well as political leaders and union officials were reported under 
arrest  yesterday  as  the  military  
junta consolidated po wer.  
The  45-year-old  Mrs.  Peron,  

ousted early Wednesday in a bloodless coup after 21 months in office, was said to be still held in a resort area nearly 1,000 miles from Buenos Aires. 
The junta, which did not say how many persons were under arrest, named one of those seized as Mrs. Peron's private secretary, Julio Gonzalez, considered the power behind the presidency, and her main bodyguard. 
The junta also raided the metal­workers union headquarters and stormed the Communist party of­fice, arresting a number of per­sons, one of whom reportedly was wounded by gunfire. 
A brief anti-coup walkout was staged in the city of Cordoba and 

Happy hours at Fat Wally's... 
The Junior Class will recelebrate St. Patrick's Day in a happy hour at Fat Wally's this Friday, March 26, from 4 -6 p.m. A 21 ID is required for entry to this celebration, which will feature disco dancing, Irish dancing, hot dogs for 25 cents and 
pitchers of green beer for $1.25. 

...and at Kubiak'S :wE NEVER COMPROMISE WITH QUALITY! : 
Stanford and McCandless halls 

• U.S. 31 (Dixieway North) IA) • 
are sponsoring a Happy Hour at 

· Kubiak's from 3 p.m. to o p.m. : (ACROSS FROM HOLIDAY INN) ..... : today. Pitchers will cost 51.50. 
f ~teen bands set~********************************** 
. I ~ 
for Jazz Fest1va * 
The 18th annual Collegiate Jazz ** Festival will be held next Friday : and Saturday, April 2 and 3, at * Stepan Center. Sixteen college* bands from across the midwest and * east coast will perform in the* Festival. * A special performance will be * given by the Eastman School of* Music Jazz Ensemble and by Lew * Soloff, former trumpet player with~ Blood, Sweat and Tears. Judges for this year's Festival include: ~tan # 
Getz, Bob Jame~, Dave R~mmmg-******************~**************** 
ton, Lester Bowte, Malacht Favors 
and Dan Morgenstern. 
This event promises to be an exciting and valuable musical ex­perience. Many performers in past festivals have entered in the pro­fessional jazz field. Bob James, for example, is a former college partic­ipant in the Festival. 
THE 



1\nigljts 
three bombs exploded there. No casualties were reported. 
Junta's activities 
Meanwhile, the junta imposed strict censorship on the local media, dissolved congress, banned political and labor union activity, seized control of the main labor federations which made up the backbone of the Peronist govern­ment, and installed military gover­nors in the provinces. There was no apparent censorship of outgoing dispatches. 
Airports and theaters were al­lowed to reopen and radio and televisinn stations returned to nor­mal programing after a day of martial music and communiques, but banks and schools remained closed. 
Traffic was normal and no curfew was in effect, although the junta urged people to stay at home at night. Embassies and public buld­ings, including the pink-painted Government House, were guarded by soldiers in battle fatigues. Tanks guarded key areas. 
The junta i!. led by army chief Gen. Jorge Videla, SO, who is considered a devout Catholic and 

: i~r Qlolontal : : Jlancakt -oust : 
: FEATURING... • 
• LARGE, OVEN-BAKED : : APPLE PANCAKES : 
: -A REAL TREAT_ : 

·············~...·~~...~ 
•

J%Observer J : Chess Tournament : 
: April 3rd&4th : in the basement of LaFortune • 
• Sign up in the Observer office (Jrd floor of Lafortune) • • Entry Fee $2.00 Prizes and trophies awarded • 
For more information call • John Newcomer 272-1913 : or Jim Stevens 8610 • 


SPRING CONCERT ~ 
-~ 
·f
NOTRE DAME CONCERT BAND ~-~ 
~~ 
~-· FRIDAY MARCH 26 ~.· 
~­Athlet.IC and C C i(~
onvocation enter ol
* 

University of Notre Dame *
'* 
Admission Free : . 8:15 m # 
an anti-Communist. The other members are the navy chief, Adm. Emilio E. Massera, and the air force commander, Brig. Orlando R. Agosit. 
The junta has said a president will be named later and some observers expect Videla to be installed. The junta also promised an eventual return to "republican democracy" but set no timetable. 
Peron's whereabouts 
There has been no official dis­closure of Mrs. Peron's where­abouts, but military sources say she is staying at a luxurious rest compound at El Messidor, 900 miles southwest of Buenos Aires. 
News reports said a number of guests there left for other hotels on military orders. The reports said the only guest now is Mrs. Peron. 
She arrived in a car from the lake and ski resort of Bariloche, two houro; awa: by road, the reports said. 
They added that her ar~ival was marked by a spectacular display of soldiers who surrounded the com­pound, a Swiss-style chalet with lush gardens located in scenic mountain country. 


~ --~~------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
'" ~ < 
•• J~ ':;.~ •, 

Dillon Hall members displayed their response to a letter which appeared in yesterday's Observer. That letter, written by Stanford interhall hockey team members, accused their Dillon opponents of 
.--------------------------------------------, persons whnse brains would never 





Campus briefs 
since his retirement as head of
Ramada voted 
Notre Dame's Medieval Institute in 1975.

for Sr. formal 
The results of the Senior Class Formal poll indicate that a substan­Black Students tial number of seniors perfcrrcd the Ramada Inn site over the Stude­of NO hold forum baker Mansion. The linal vote resulted in a solid 3 to 2 margin. The Black Students of Notre 
Comments from voting seniors Dame yesterday encouraged partic­indinttl·d that the sit-down New ipation in the first Notre Dame York strip steak dinner. lower price Black Student Forum to be held and large dance tloor were the most here tomorrow. inlluential factors. The primary objective of this 
The Senior Class Officers in initial forum is to initiate a feeling conjunction with the Formal Com-of community among black stud­mitiel' wish to thank all those who ents in the University and in the partil'ipatcd in the poll. "You South Bend high schools. It is to inade an cxtremelv difticult dcci-provide black high school students ~ion a little easi~r for us." a with information designed to en­SJ)(>kcsnwn said. hance their n~otivation towards a 
Moredctails will be announced in college education. 
the immediate future. Any lJUes­tion'> '>lmuld he referred to either .Jim Landshcrt (12lb). Rich .John· son (8392) or the Senior Clas~ Oflkns. 
G b • 1 • 
a rle reCeiVeS Freneh a war d 

Prof. Astrik L. Gabriel, an inter­nationally known medievalist at Notre Dame has been appointed to the rank of officer in the Order of the Legion of Honor by the Presi­dent of France, Valery G. D'­Estaing. 
Gabriel has also been honored by several other countries. He is a corresponding fellow of the French and Bavarian Academics of Sci­ences, a fellow of the Royal Hi!.torical Society and of the Med­ieval Academy of America, and has been decorated by Italy. 
A native of Hungary, Gabriel studied in Paris and Budapest. He was director of the French College in Hungary in 1938 and a professor at the University of Budapest until 1947. From 1947-4!l he was guest professor at the Pontifical Institute of Medieval Studies in Toronto and then joined the faculty at Notre Dame. From 1950-S I he was a member of the Institute for Ad­vanced Study at Princeton, N.J., and he held the Charles Chauncey Stillman guest professorship at Harvard from 1963-64. He is cur­rently president of the Interna­tional Commission for the History of Universities within the Interna­tional Congress of Historical Sci­ences. 
For several years Gabriel has been microfilming and photograph­ing the art treasures and scientific manuscripts of Milan's Ambros­iana Library for the Frank M. Folsom Microfilm and Photograph­ic Collection, located in Notre Dame's Memorial Library. He has directed the Folsom Collection 
. · <'· , ' , ··~ , H .• t/r, .'cr. v\ -c~c, ..1/ l'j . .'.~;· 1:•.-(:c 'l:.':'t·
•'.•, .,. ~!.• :t.~ ' .• , •• , ~ . 
Registration for the forum will be 
held from 12-12:30 p.m. in the 
Memorial Library Lobby, fo~lowed 
by opening remarks from Dtrector 
of Black Studies Dr. James Stewart 
and Co-ordinator for Black Student 
Affairs Mrs. Bernadette Merluzzi. 
Formal group presentations will 
follow at I p.m. Both events will be 
held in the Library Auditorium. 
Informal group discussions are 
scheduled from 2-3 p.m., to be 
followed by campus tours and a 
"Soul Chicken Feast" from 4:30­
6:30 p.m. 
A disco dance will be held in Stepan Center from 10 p.m. to 2 
a.m. Admission to the dance, sponsored by the N.D. Black Law Students, will be $1.50 in advance or $2 at the door. 
Promoters of the forum said, "We feel that as black students we can more clearly define the prob­lems facing black students, un­cover solutions to these problems, and ·implement these solutions. 
The theme of the forum is "Things won't get any better if we just let them be!" 



Award presented to Air Force 
,The nation's top award for preventive law activities, the Emil Brown Fund Award, will be pre­sented to the United States Air Force at ceremonies scheduled for the University of Notre Dame campus Saturday, March 27. 
Major Gen. Harold R. Vague, judge advocate general of the USAF. will accept the award during a dinner ceremony in the Morris Inn which follows the daylong Client Counseling Competition being held this year at Notre Dame. 
Preventive law and client coun­seling activities have gained in­creased attention in recent years from legal educators who believe that many costly and court­
~ : ~ 
.~ ' . 
. . ........}"' 
", 
bad conduct at a heated match between the two halls. Dillon obviously has something to say about that. See today's editorial page. 
(Photo by Chris Smith) 

clogging trials can be avoided by face-to-face counseling sessions with a plaintiff or defendant in advance of formal legal actions. 
The Emil Brown Award honors a former University of Southern California law professor who estab­lished an annual award of $1,000 for writing or other activities promoting the concept of prevent­ive law. 
A reviewing board for the award include David F. Cavers, professor emritus at Harvard and president of the Council on Law-Related Studies; Alex Elson, Illinois law­yer; Frank R. Kenison, chief justice of the New Hampshire Supreme Court; F. Dodge O'Neal, former Duke University law dean, and Felix F. Stumpf of the National College of the State Judiciary, Reno, Nev. 

Glee Club show 
The Glee Club will present its annual spring concert Sunday, March 28 at 8:15p.m. in Washing­ton Hall. The program for the concert will feature a medley of show tunes, the Notre Dame Fight Song. "Blow Ye Winds," "Song of Peace," "This is My Country" and the Our Father. Dr. David Clark Isele will conduct the _group. 

lnPIRG elections 
Nomination forms will be avail­


'.:''(i / ..~. ~ '~ ~~--~ :. ; ~ :ti\\·~.; ~~~~(~ ~·· ~ ~ ~ ~ ,.~. ~' ~ ~·: ~. ·~ \ ~~ ~~.:~:.".~ ::.~ ... ~ ~. ~ 
Friday, March 26, 1976 
the observer 
3 


Conviction appealed for 12-year-old in murder case 
WASHINGTON AP-The lawyer for a 12-year-old boy convicted of first-degree murder said Thursday he will appeal the conviction since the elderly woman victim died only 
after  her  doctor  turned  off  a  
life-sustaining machine.  
"My  client  is  innocent  of  the  

murder charge," Robert W. Michels said in a telephone inter­view. 
The boy. whose name was kept secret because of his age, was convicted in D.C Juvenile Court Wednesday in the death of Gladys 
H. Werlich. 85, a Washington socialite in the 1920's and 1930's. 
Mrs. Werlich suffered a skull fracture .Jan. 13 when she was knocked to the ground by four boys who were trying to steal her purse. 
But she did not die until .Jan. 19 when DR. Michael W. Dennis of George Washington Hospital shut down the breathing appartus keep­ing Mrs. Werlich alive. 
The case has aroused special interest because of the age of the defendant and because of the 
· current controversy over whether 
again function normally should be kept alive by artificial means. 
The controversy was touched off by the case of Karen Quinlan. the coma-stricken New Jersey woman whose parents have unsuccessfully sought a court order to turn off the machines keeping her alive. 
Dennis said he turned off Mrs. Werlich 's machine after consulta­' tions with her family because a part 
changes the legal status of my 
client," he said. 
The boy, weighing less than 89 
pounds and less than S feet tall. 
could he sentenced to two years in 
a juvenile detention faciliiy, with 
the sentence extended evcrv two 
years until he reaches 21. ­
The sentence will be pronounced 
after recommendations from '>ocial 
workers. 
The three other youths charged 
with murder, two aged IS and om· 
18, have not yet comL· to trial. 
Gutman returns from Mid-East trip 
FORT WAYf',;E* Ind. 
AP-Outgoing Indiana Senate Presi­
dent Pro Tcm Phillip R. Gutman 
returned from a trip to the Middk 
East Thursday. saying a market 
exists in Saudi Arabia for the 
state's pre-fabricated housing in­
dustry. 
Gutman, who is not seeking 
re-election. said the Saudis have 
allocated $100 billion for building 
as a result of many persons moving 
to the cities. 
The trip by state oflicials and 
businessmen was billed as a pro­
motional trip for Indiana's pre­
fabricated housing industry. al­
though nonwe of the businessmen 
who went along was directly con­
nected with the industry. 
Gutman declined to say if the trip 
resulted in any orders, but said the 
businessmen would have to follow 
up on their opportunity. 
Bomb threat tried at Purdue 
LAFAYETTE* Ind. AP -F0ur buildings at Purdue University were closed yesterday when police received an anonymous bomb threat. officials said. 
Officers said the Purdue Police Department received a call at (l 
a.m. that a bomb had been placed in the Life Science. Math, Electri­cal Engineering and Memorial Union Buildings. 
The caller said the bombs werl' set to off between 8 a. 111. and !l p.m. 
No Bomb went off by the appointed time and the buildings were reopened, police said. 
A spokesman said the call was traced to a residence. but it was not determined who had placed it. 


~-. .... ' 
J,..,...,..~ ~.A•---•.r~•·•·•·· .............~ ...-~ ....., ~ 


r-------------------------------------------------------------------------­
4 
the observer Friday, March 26, 1976 

The resolution--proposed by B­Tuesday before the Security Coun­

with--MONTROSE and SKYHOOKS 
Despite warnings 
Senate lets Concorde land 
by Jay Perkins 
Associated Press Writer 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The Sen­ate yesterday refused to prohibit the Concorde supersonic jet from making scheduled flights into all 
U.S. airports. 
Bv a 50-31 vote, the Senate rejected an amendment that would have added the Concorde ban to a bill authorizing $4.7 billion over 10 years to fund airport development. 
The Senate then considered an amendment allowing the Depart­ment of Transportation to take $800 million from the airport trust fund to quiet existing jets that make more noise than allowed by federal regulations. 
The Senate ban on the Concorde, if it had passed, would have been permanent and would have applied to all U.S. airports. The House already has passed legislation pro­hibiting the Concorde, but the House bill would only ban the plane for six months. 
In addition. the House measure would not affect Dulles Interna­tional Airport outside Washington, 

U.S. vetoes U.N. Council vote; would have rebuked Israelis 
b_y Serge Schmemann negative vote from the west bank of strators, some wearing prayer sh­awls. protested Scranton's address
Associated Press Writer Jordan. 
one of the two airports where the plane is scheduled to land. 
Transportation Secretary Wil­liam T. Coleman, Jr.. on Feb. 4. authorized Air France and British Airways to use the Concorde on two daily flights each into John F. Kennedy Airport in New York and on one daily flight each into Dulles Airport for up to 16 months. 
Coleman said this test period would allow the federal govern­ment time to determine if the plane were environmentally sound. 
The Port Authority of New York-New Jersey has banned the plane at Kennedy Airport, how­ever, and the airlines are challeng­ing that decision in court. 
Sen. Lowell Weicker, R-Conn., told the Senate that admitting the Concorde would be a step back­ward in the nation's effort to improve its environment. 
The plane, he said, produces far more noise on takeoff and landing than conventional jets, creates more pollution around airports than conventional planes and could harm the earth's ozone layer that protects human life from poten­tially cancer-causing ultraviolet rays. 
Sen. Howard Cannon, D-Nev., argued that attempts to ban the Concorde were similar to attempts by some in the first years of flight "to characterize airplanes as creat­ures of the devil." 
Cannon noted those early oppon­ents of aviation are viewed today as eccentrics. Such individuals still are around, he said, but now they "have wrapped themselves in the Robin Hood-like cloak of environ­mental considerations." 
Sen. Charles Percy, R-Ill., also urged the Senate to reject the Concorde amendment, saying the issue had become "a litmus test in Europe as to whether the U.S. is playing a fair game." 
Percy noted Europeans nations had accepted U.S. jet aircraft when those planes were first developed even though the jets were far noisier aircraft than those in use. He said the country should admit the Concorde so that it could learn how a better version could be built. 
HERE'S HOPING THAT GOOD WEATHER PREVAILS! And so, as another Hoosier spring ~rifts in, we can once again catch some rays, play THE GAME and nd ourselves of winter colds. 
(Photo by Mike Kron) 

UNITED NATIONS* N.Y. (AP)­The United States vetoed a Security Council resolution Thursday night that would have rebuked Israel for its entrenchment in Jerusalem and its administration of other occupied territories. 
All the other 14 members of the Security Council voted for the resolution. which was proposed by a group of nonaligned nations. 
The veto cast by U.S. Ambassa­dor William W. Scranton was the 14th by the United States in the Securitv Council and the fifth dealing with the Middle East. 
It killed a resolution that had been carefully designed to avoid a 
Fair endorsed by Hatcher for May governor's race 
GARY* Ind. AP-State Senate Minority leader Robert J. Fair of Princeton has picked up the en­dorsement of Gary Mayor Richeard 
G. Hatcher for Democratic nomina­tion for governer in Indiana's May 4 primary. 
Hatcher's endorsement was con­sidered a major boost for Fair since it guaranteed him the active backing of the Gary political mach­ine. 
It was the Fair's first major endorsement. He is running against Secretary of State Larry A. Conrad and State Treasurer Jack L. New. 
Gary. the state's thrid largest city. is the largest under Democra­tic administration. 
Hatcher. a third-term mayor, called Fair an "able candidate" and friend of Gary since he helped push through the 1976 legislature a hill authorizing construction of a downtown civic center in Gary. 
"When I make a judgement like this. it'~ because he's the bestg person,·· Hatcher told about ISO persons. mostly city workers in the city council chamber. 
By supporting Fair, Hatcher lined up opposite Lake County Democratic Chairman Robert A Pastrick, the East Chicago mayor who has been Hatcher's main rival for party power in Indiana's north­western corner. Pastrick favors Conrad for the nomination.D 
Hatcher and Pastrick have b een patching up their differences, and both had endorsed 17-term Rep. Ray J. Madden for renomination over State Sen Adam Benjamin Jr. of Gary. 
''There is an argument for political expediency. for at some point morality has to enter and you have to support the man you think enin formerly Dahomey, Guyana. Pakistan, Panama and Tanzani­a--expressed "deep concern" over the ·changes Israel has made in Jerusalem and over the resettling of Israelis in occupied territories. 
It "deplores" Israel's failure to stop changing the status of Jersa­lem. and calls on the Israelis to refrain from taking measures a­gainst Arab inhabitants; to ''re­spect and uphold the inviolability" of holy places, and to "desist from the expropriation of or encroach­ment" on Arab lands. 
At the U.S. mission across the street from U.N. headquarters. about three dozen Jewish demon-
is the best candidate," Hatcher said. 
He said he would campaign around the state for fair and other candidates. 
Fair said Gary has been ignored by state government, but said, ''As governor, I would see that that didn't exist. Gary would get the recognition it deserves.'' 
Fair also said it was shameful that it took a federal court order for Indiana State Police to actively recruit more black troopers. There cil. 
"We know what evenhanded­ness means." Rabbi Saul Berman of Stern College shouted through a bullhorn. "It means Arabs yes. Jews no." 
The reference was to Scranton's oft-quoted 1968 recommendation for a "more evenhanded" U.S. policy in the Middle East. 
In his address Tuesday. Scranton termed Israeli settlements in occu­pied territories illegal and an obstacle to peace in the Mideast, and he said the annexation of east Jerusalem "cannot be considered other than interim and provision­
al. .. Angered by what they viewed as an American betrayal. the Israelis officially complained about the speech to the State Department. 
U.S. officials said the speech contained no views that had not been stated before. 
The Israelis made clear what really angered them was that the speech came during a debate in which Israel was already on the defensive against a barrage of attacks. 
Reports from Tel Aviv said State Department officials had reassured the Israelis that despite "some unfortunate expressions" in Scra­nton's speech, Washington had made no change in its Mideast policy. 
PLACEMENT BUREAU 
Main Building 
I~TI~VI~WS SChEDULED FOR WZEK OF APRIL 5 
IrJtcrviews ar~ for seninrs and rraduate students Girn-un acheclulcs. are in ~{OO.ii ~13, :Jain J3uildiur-. Inter;ie"-' time~ :~~st be s1cned for in perfion. ~i1e si~n-up period at the ~lacen-ent bureau will Le from L:~O a.n. to 5:00 ~.m • 
.onday tnrourh ThurGJny. 

Action/Peace C~r~s/Vista, B"! in 3.11 disci)lines-:-­Prudential Insurar1ce Co 
~ in li.L~ ~~A, .ia.th. For Acctine, Auditina, und.er-wr1tP.r:1, Lo.cation: Prililaril:r ··errillville, IN, (Approx, 10-15 ni, south of Gary) Perm ~esident Visa required. ' • 
,APR, 7 Bloch's 

~ L in ~!~t, '1kt. Rec.ail l)ept. Gtore For 
}~rchantiisi.~t~ :'ct. ':rrainee,. Lac: indJiapls, 
~N. Per~ •.1es, 1isa rec~ired 
Union Car~ide Corn, Daiterv ;roducts iliv, 
All "Ill\, 
AF!{, "(/8 

Lincoln !lational Corp, 1\/eJ/Thurs B in AL n.ncl ill\, 
I 

APR, G 
Armour " Co. 1S:'!1urs. 
B i~ 'kt; ..eat froducts, !or: Sales leadinp to -~~t_, ...; ,,ales .,{:t. i.Joc: Cbicapo area incJudin~ S?~t;l L-~n~ to ;aaon Cit:r, IA. Citizenship rc~. 
C~ [JO.-Ge1 1;:-: CorTI, 
!J i~1 ~..~~tt, -~i!A 1;i:h :tkt bltp:,r~ or cone, D in 3iol 
ror . ._,ales nen, uocation: l~ld.West, CitizenshiJl 
re~. Prefer (r~ds with bkf~rd and/or workin~ 
l:no.uled[:'e of far~inp or R.r,ricul ture, 
;~·iP.:LQYLI{ Itli'OTI -lATIO;~, AL7l::J1:!t.'l'IVLS 'rEI'.Cliiii'";. ACTI·Ct!/Pj~ACL. CO~P~.>/V·IS?/i.. r'L~r·~,or c·woviCF ROo::. 213. l~D:lil!IS'l'~ATIOIJ .. ~t}~L;~~t;, .• 
·f· .. 

r 
t ~ Friday, March 26, 1976 
1he observer

Next primaries April 6
t Candidates keep stumping for primaries 
Sen. Henry M . .Iackson of Wash­
ington sougllt urban backing in 
New York with a plan to save 
America's cities, while former 
Georgia Gov. Jimmy Carter looked 
for farm support in Wisconsin with 
criticism of President Ford's agri­
cultural policy. 
The locations and issues were 
different, but the two candidates 
for the Democratic presidential 
nomination had the same goal: 
votes in April 6 primaries. 
On the Republican side, Ford's 
campaign strategists were still 
weighing the effect of Ronald 
Reagan's victory in North Carolina 
-his first of the campaign season. 
And the former California gover­
nor was working at home while his 
aides negotiated for television time 
for a nationwide address next 
Wl'Ck. 
Of the six Democratic primaries 
so far, Carter has won five and 
.I ackson one. Former Oklahoma 
St•n. Fred Harris, U.S. Rep. Morris 
Udall. D-Ari1... and Alabama Gov. 
Georgl' C Wallace arc still looking 
for vit·torv. 
The ot.hcr two active major 
t·andidates in the Dl•mocratic field. 
Sen. Frank Church of Idaho and 
Gov. Edmund G. Brown Jr. of 
California. have not yet tested the 
primary waters. 
Aid (or cities 

In New York City. Jackson urged 
increased federal aid for urban 
areas. "It may be fashionable for 
politicians to run against Washing­
ton and to argue for reduced 
federal role. but anybody who 
knows anything about it, knows the 
cities cannot survive without sub­
stantially increased federal aid... 
Jackson said in an apparent refer­
ence to Carter, who has been 
sharply critical of the Washington 
power structure. 
Carter defended his attacks on 
the federal government. denying 
that they arc attacks on programs 
for the poor and the cities. "It is 
time for a fresh approach to be 
brought to Wa~hington to phase 
out those things that arc unman­
agl·ahk." he said in Wisconsin. "It 
need not be a cause of fear in 
Washington to sec bold changes 
made." 
.Jackson said he would try to cut 
the uncmploynwnt raiL' now at 7.6 
Penn Central RR ordered to repair old Indiana tracks 
INDIANAPOLIS AP-The bankrupt Penn Central Railroad has been ordered to repair deteriorated track that forces rerouting of the James Whitcomb Riley and Floridian pas­senger trains in Indiana. 
U.S. District Court Judge Wil­liam E. Steckler issued an order late Wednesday giving the railroad two years to complete an estimated $22.7 million rehabilitation pro­gram to bring the track b<tck up to llJ71 quality. 
The order was issued after 
Amtrak sued Penn Central for 
breach of llJ71 contract giving 
Amtrak the right to run its passen­
ger trains over Penn Central track 
in Indiana. 
Amtrark said Penn Central's 
failun· to maintain the track forced 
it to reroute passenger trains to 
avoid dangerous track running 
from Indianapolis to Louisville, 
Cincinnati and the Chicago area. 
Fla. via Louisville and its James 
Whitcomb Riley passenger train 
from Chicago to Indianapolis to 
Wa~hington via Cincinnati. 
The Floridian was routed around 
Indianapolis because of poor track 
in January 1972 and the Riley was 
detoured around the Hoosier capi­
tal in October 1973. 
William Watt. Gov. Otis R. Bowen's rail expert. said the maintenance program would in­volve major replacement of rail ties and as much as 45 miles of track and grade·c'rossing improvements·. 
a 

ington senator did not say how agreement was reached to stabilize Kissinger has refused specitical-persons who have qualified to run 
much the programs would cost or the size of the U.S.-Soviet grain ly to rule out a U.S. invasion of as convention-delegates candidates 
where the money would come from. trade. Cuba if its troops intervene in other in caucuses around the state Satur­
He said generally that tax revenue Carter said in a statement that he African nations in addition to day. generated by a recovering economy was dissatisfied with Ford's agri­Angola. The refusal earlier Rules of the national party give 
percent. to 3 percent. The Wash­It was lifted after long-term this area." state party leaders by rejecting 390 
cultural policies and would lire
would finance his program and no brought sharp criticism from Car-presidential candidates the right to tax increase would be needed. Argicultural Secretary Earl Butz if ter. disapprove delegate candidates, 
for elected president.
Jackson also called federal The Fair Campaign Practices but the state party chairman Ann funding of welfare, passage of a Committee fromally opened its Cramer said the Carter-Jackson national health insurance program, Other areas biennial campaign to clean up action was "not in keeping with th.: increased federal aid to education elections, with chairmen of the four spirit or intent" of Florida's dele­and establishment of a public In other developments: congressional campaign commit-gate selection plan. works program like the Depression­Harris said trusted sources have tees signing the pledge in a Capitol Carter won the Florida primary, Era Civilian Conservation Corps to indicated to him that the Ford ceremony. The committee's code Wallace came in second and Jack­create jobs for young people. administration is planning a block-pledges candidates to refrain from son came in third. Wallace has not 
ade of Cuba if its troops engage in slander, whispering campaigns, rejected any of those seeking to he 
Mrs. Carter campaigns further intervention in Africa. falsehoods. appeals to prejudice his delegates. 
Harris did not identify is sources. and to reject support from anybody Washington Gov. Dan Evans. 
Jackson wasn't the only one He called for immediate public who does these things. the nation's senior Republican campaigning in New York City. hearings on "Ford-Kissinger plans Florida Democratic leaders met governor, announced in Olvmpia Carter's wife. Rosalyn, also made which could lead to war." to decide whether to press their that he will not ~cck an uni>rccc­several appearances -in the city. In White House Press Secretary dispute with Jackson and Carter dented fourth term. He said he an interview on the WNEW-TV Ron Nessen, asked if Ford was over their rejection of some indivi-loved the state and its people. 'Midday Liv<:" program. she considering contingency plans rc-duals who hope to go to the .. But because I Jove my familv spoke about abortion, marijuana, garding Cu?a, replied, "There a;e national convention as delegates. more. I have decided not to seck and the problems of a presidential a number of matters under study 111 Carter and Jackson have angered reelection." campaign. 
As for abortion. Mrs. Carter 
said. "I don't like it personally, but • • 
I'm not changing the constitution." 
: An :
On marijuana she said, ''I'm not 
•
for legalizing it, but for decrimin­
alizing it." And on political cam­
: Observer: 
paigning. she said she's learned "to grow a thick skin." Her husband. meanwhile, was in 
: rkshop:
Madison. Wis., where he was asked 
about Jackson's proposal to use 
: on copyreading.:
American grain as a bargaining tool in dealing with the Soviet • Union. : Will be held this • 
"I would not single out food as a • • weapon." Carter said. "I do not • ·------Tuesday, March 30, : intend to single out food as the bargaining weapon." : at r:30 p.m. in the first floor LaFortune theatre.: 
Carter said the U.S. farmers were hurt when Secretary of State 
: $peakers include: George Scheurer, university copy: 
Henry Kissinger and Feil-d ·"did single out wheat." • He apparently referred to last :reader and Ken Bradford, past Observer copy editor: 
year's temporary embargo on graift ~ 
. 

sales to Russia. The embargo was 
:All Copyreaders must attend and the general public• 
imposed after some consumer and labor union ieadcrs said sates to the 
: is invited. Refreshments served afterwards!! :
Soviet Union would drive up prices at home. 
What college women are being pinned with. 
As a woman ROTC stu­woman enrolled in the paid ... textbook costs re­dent, you'll compete for AFROTC 4-year program is imbursed ... plus $100 a 
your commission on the also qualified to compete month allowance, tax-free. 
same footing as the men in for an AFROTC college A woman's place is def­
Contact: 
¥OUr class. scholarship which will initely in the Air Force and 
There are 2-year, 3-year, cover the remaining 2 or 3 our pinning ceremony will Capt. M.L. Stockdale, and 4-year scholarship pro­years she has as a cadet. be the highlight of her co._ Asst. Professor of grams available. A young Tuition iscovered...all fees lege experience. 
Aerospace Studies 
6635
Put it~ all together in Air Force·.ROTC:·· · · ...:. ~ ......?83­
. 
'I 
*1-~d.~§~r,ver
Founded November 3. 1966 
The Observer is published by students of the University of Notre Dame and EDITORIAL BOARD St. Mary's College It does not necessarily reflect the policies of either Thomas O'Neil Editor-m-Chief 1nstitution The news is reported as accurately and objectively as poss1ble. Dan Sanchez Managing Editor Editorials represent the op1n1on or a ma1onty of the f:dltonal Board. c B Executive Editor 
· f · d' 'd I d't 0 · · s cartoons and · regg angs
Comnwntanes are the v1ews o 1n lVI ua e 1ors. PiniOn • . Val zurblis Executive Editor regular columns express the views of their authors. Column space IS Pat Hanifin Editorial Editor avddable to all members of thfe community .. and letters are encouraged to Bob Mader Executive News Editor promote the free expression o vary1ng opmlons on campus. Maureen Flynn Campus Editor 
Marti Hogan St. Mary's Editor Ed;torials: 283_ Don Reimer Copy Editor
1715News 2!H-8661 Business: 283-7471 
Tim 0' Reiley Features Editor Fred Herbst Sports Editor Advertising Manager Tom Whelan Mary Egan Contributing Editor
Tom Modglin
Bus1rwss Manager 

Friday, March 26, 1976 
P. 0. Box Q 
A person can create his own morality while holding any sexual
Unfounded Steppin' A/on~
orientation. A gay bar could be seen as a sad or enjoyable, depend­ing upon the attitude that one went
Assumptions 
there with. A "commitment of 
Toward God 
total love" can be mde within the Dear Editor: context of any sexuality, if one Dear Editor: 
chooses to make it; and it is not I would like to thank the Observer more guaranteed in heterosexuality Within the past couple of days. for devoting tirr.e and attention to a than it is in homosexuality. most everyone has been returning subject that has often been neglect­Any one can "live free" and to the campus from spring break. ed in the past. • The issue of "belong" to any organization si­Some returned from home, others homosexuality is undoubtedly de­multaneously. from the Bahamas. and still others serving of investigation in a com­from Florida. etc. For the seniors munity that is striving towards Peter H. Korth this was their last long break as 
Christian ideals, and of particular undergraduates at Notre Dame. In concern to those of us who are May. the class of 1976 will become Catholic. 
alumni of Notre Dame. While I was glad to read the 
Dillon Hall When I think of graduation and interview with Mr. deAragon in the of leaving all the dear and close March 4 edition of your paper, I am friends that I've come to love and
Strikes Back
concerned that some of the views cherish. I get kind of an empty projected are so personal as to stomach. I get sad and at times 
prove misleading. While Mr. de tears fill mv eves. It even seems as Aragon is entitled to hold whatever Dear Editor: though my ·happiness is being opinions he chooses, many readers taken away. might not be well enough informed A recent letter (3-25-76) exag­But then I must ask myself the to pierce objectively through some gerated, and to a greater extent inevitable question--where does o­of the generalizations found in fabricated activities surrounding find true happiness? I don't
ne the article. the Dillon-Stanford interhall hoc­
think we should look for true I wondered too, at Mr. de key game. The activities described happiness in ephcrmal or passing Aragon's statemehts concerning arc not only ficticious but abhorent. things--like human relationships homosexuals at Notre Dame. Rather than dignify their gloating and friendships can be. Rather Many of his remarks appear to be letter with an issue by issue these things should serve ..as the of a rather dubious value since he response. I invite any and all steps that help us to climb closer to stated: "I don't know a single interested members of the NDSMC our God since we are all made in person who is gay on campus. Love community to contact me for an His image and likeness. Coming to 
is more important to me." If he accurate account of the situation. know and love our friends is does not associate with them, he coming to know and love God can hardly claim to be aware of Tom O'Neill better. their situation and their activities, President of Dillon Hall Manv times when we climb a and he has no right to imply that 
tlight of steps we turn around to love is not important to them as 
sec what we've climbed, and we're thankful for having gone that far.
well. 
I would question, too, his remark Dear Editor: And so it is with our relationships that he is "atypical" in having and friendships. 
"quite a developed philosophy." I About the letter in yesterday's The important thing to remem­can see no justification for assum­Observer concerning the conduct of ber, I think. is to look at the steps ing that most homosexuals do not. Dillon Hall fans at the hockey game which are to come. If we look back It would seem to me that an equally between Dillon and Stanford, we too much and live the past we accurate statement could be made agree that Dillon is loud, obnox­might stick to those steps and for heterosexuals; how can one ious. offensive, repulsive, gaudy, worse yet we'll never climb those to suppose that either orientation is rowdy and boisterous. And we come. Somehow this thought lifts more likely to have a "developed wouldn't live anywhere else. my heart when I'm feeling down. philosophy?" Sexual orientation is Many thanks to all of you who but one facet of a nature that makes Bill Shults have beens-steps in my life--steps 
us all human beings. John Geppert which have brought me this far, 
I fear that many of Mr. de J. Piano steps which have helped me to Aragon's opinions are of a negative Pat Flynn come to know and love my God flavor that is entirely unnecessary. Mike Conaty more· Joe Corpora 


HUMPHREYBIRD ..... 
) : I( I .' .' i ~ .f '' I I I .., I I , 3 'J I '· 

DOONESBURY by Garry Trudeau 
NO, YOIJ OON'T KNOW 
W&U, A5 A MATTeR OF Me, 8IJT I SAW YOU 
fACT, I AM LOOKING /JtaARE ON ?He Tl/Be 
FOR A M&fJIA PeRSON­lASTN/6HT, ANO I IUA5 GSP&C/ALL-Y 50M/30NeWONIJ£RJN6 If YOU N&eO­WITH EXP&R/ENC/3 IN EO ANYONE 7lJ Hfit.P YO// 7!3/..EiV/SION •.. OIJT WITH PR&S5 I'VIooo,..,.,.,...,.., 
\
' 

HARRiS. YeAH, 
HAV& ANY SIJOI 00 YOIJ 
I WATCH ABOIJT AVfi HOIJR5 A 

opinion !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 

Poisonous Bottle 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiijmichae1 vii/ani 
The federal Food and Drug Administration has slid through another consumer product of questionable safety with its recent approval of a plastic bottle made of possibly carcinogenic vinyl-cyanide. 
Vinyl-cyanide or acrylonitrile is a chemical compound with identical structure to that of vinyl-chloride except that it has a cyanide molecule instead of a chlorine atom. This chemical substance falls in the shadow of vinyl chloride in that it too has questionable effects on man. As vinyl chloride is under attack by consumer interest groups, particularly the National Resources Defense Council, for its involvement in causing liver cancers, so is acrylonitrile for its damaging effects to the adrenal glands and endocrine system. Such evidence is the result of toxicity studies in vinyl-cyanide done at Harvard Medical School by Dr. Sandor Szabo. 
Unfortunately, however, according to Business Week, October 13, 1975, this d~IJ·atable new product, made by Borg-Warner Chemical Co., is good news for bottling and packaging companies. The plastic bottle is attractive to food processors for its low weight and low breakage properties. For example Coors brewery will save 25 per cent in shipping costs in reducing the container weight of its products by using this plastic bottle. Coca-Cola Bottling Co. will avoid the great expense of collection and sterilization procedures with the elimination of return/deposit bottles when they incorporate this new and questionable plastic bottle into their organization. Several other large food processors are expected to go this criticized route beginning this month, and I am sure if alcohol didn't dissolve plastic, we would see major distilleries doing the same. 
The point, however, according to Jeff Cox, Executive Editor of Environmental Action Bulletin, is that "capital interest is taking precedence over human health." The FDA approved this bottle with no evidence of its safety except two 90-day feeding studies by Monsanto Co. that showed nothing. In fact, the FDA is also basing its approval of this bottle on an inadequate 30-year-old scientific study done by P.E. Tullar at George Washington University in 1947. The study consisted of a small sample of single-sexed animals fed acrylonitrile. Based on today's more extensive and available lab procedures I would consider such a study outmoded. 
Dr. Szabo daims, on the basis of long-term, low-concentration studies of this problem, that "In high doses, the acute effects of acrylonitrile are severe shocks to the adrenal glands, including adrenal failure. Plus, the substance damages the endocrine system. It also causes intestinal ulcers. Rats given high doses die within a few hours." 
With such medical evidence it seems outrageous that the FDA should make such approvals. The pattern over the years shows that the FDA doesn't look deeply into the medical dangers involved with the incorporation of new chemical products into our food system. They should better police such manufactures before allowing anything to become part of our bod supply. 
The chemistry behind the dangers of the acrylonitrile bottle consists of the vinyl-cyanide molecules that are not completely held into the plastic. Therefore, some loosely held parts of vinyl-cyanide leak out of the plastic and into the foodstuff contains in the bottle. Furthermore, in an environmental sense, the nondegradable plastic contributes to our country's waste load, requires more energy to manufacture than glass bottles, when burnt it sends toxis gases (hydrogen cyanide, used for executions in gas chambers) into our atmosphere, it is constructed from our already limited petroleum supplies, we lack any real substance of reports on the long-term effects of acrylonitrile and hydrogen cyanide on man, and most startling is the fact that, at one time, acrylonitrile was considered to be ten times more toxic than vinyl chloride. 
At present the National Resource Defense Council and Environmental Defense Fund have filed suit against the FDA for th~ir unconcerned approval to market a compound that is obviously dangerous to our health. One should seriously consider the effects that such a product could have on man if put on the national market in the form of soft-drink bottles. Lastly, our congressmen should be made aware of the great implications that could arise from this severe show of FDA deficiency in approving a substance having no concrete evidence for .its. safety... '· ,. .. 
Friday, March 26, 1976 
Letters to a Lonely God 
ah, m~ foes, and ,oh, m~ friends 
Reverend Robert Griffin 


There arc some years when I feel! won't care if I never see another frisbee. This lovely, warm afternoon, I have sat in my office with the drapes drawn. A moment ago, I looked out, and sure enough, there was a kid outside my window throwing frisbees; in the autumn, they arc always throwing footballs. I wish they would go away. I don't dislike kids, I bear no grudges agianst frisbees; but kids throw­ing them make me restless. The very sight of them causes absurd images to spring up in my mind. I think to myself: I wish I were a frisbee thrown by the hand of Christ. I wish God would send me skimming high over the earth into the path of the sun, spiralling me in an arc so graceful that observers might almost think that I had wings. It is silly for a man to wish he were a frisbee, but I don't think it is silly for a man to wish that God would do graceful things with that man's life. 
I don't suppose a frisbee ever wishes it were a man sitting in an office behind closed drapes. Especially, I don't suppose a frisbee ever wishes it were a man sitting in an office, wishing he were a frisbee thrown by the hand of Christ. Frisbees are just dumb plastic discs, helpless to have any life of their own without the skill of schoolboys who give them the motions of birds. Priests, too, need the touch of the Master's hand; otherwise they arc just great, lumpish. earthy things who can 
never aspire to brush the heavens. There is another kind of restlessness that comes with the frisbees in the springtime; it is the restlessness of knowing that a school year is nearly over. when you will be off to adventures in the City. In summer, from morning until evening, there arc kids 
throwing frisbees in Washington Square Park in Greenwich Village. City kids can teac..·h Notre Dame students a trick or two 
about throwing frisbees. New York frisbees do spins that living creatures would need feathers to duplicate. But town frisbees or c..·ountry frisbees, those frisbees link the spring to the summer and the summer to the spring. It is only the presence of a certain kind of grace that separates the April frolic_s on the Quads from the games of August 111 the Park. 
I remember a summer evening of frisbee watching. in Washington Square, when a young girl suddenly handed me a lighted candle. When I asked her why, she simply said, "It's a gift." It was a charming gift, reminding me of Edna St. Vincent Millay, a Village poet, born in Maine, named in the middle after St. Vincent's Hospital. which was only a frisbee's throw away from Washington Square. The only appropriate words for blessing a candle are the words 0f her poem: 
My candle burns at both its ends. 
It will not last the night; 
But. ah. my foes. and oh, my friends. 
It gives a lbvcly ltght. 
1 walked around the Village that even­ing, repeating those words, carrying that candle like an altar boy in search of a Mass. I swear that at the sight of me, candles were lighted in the faces of the people I met. I was greatly admired that evening, and I admired myself for lighting a candle (or keeping it lit) rather than cursing the darkness. 
After a little while, I gave the candle to a young man who became so ecstatic that he seemed, like Simeon and Anna, to have been waiting all his life for a gift of light. He organized a religious procession around that flickering taper, as though he were a roving grotto. He wandered off through the streets, chanting the Hare Krishna, and there was a crowd of people chanting the Hare Krishna behind him. A few moments earlier, that same crowd nearly had their heads split in a near-confrontation with the Tactical Police Force, summoned in sup­port of the park constables who were forcing a man to come down from a tree. That crowd decided that candles were more fun than billy clubs, which is an insight they could have shared with moths. 
There has been a lot of poetry written about candles, but no poetry at all written about frisbees. On behalf of candles Shakespeare wrote lines like these: "Lo, how the little candles throws its beam. So chines a good deed in a naughty world," or, "All our yesterdays have lighted fools/ The way to dusty death. Out, out, brief candle! Life's but a walking shadow... " Could he not have written lines for the frisbee that say it "Like to the lark at 
dear dyt~rnpestra 
...................................... 
the entertainment week 
Dear Clyde. 

My roommate is driving me craLy. 
For one thing he makes queer noises. When he wakes up in the morning he makes grunting. sniffling and puking noises. When he's reading or sitting he makes bird noises. 
He changes his clothes about once a wc..T k·. He has BO which could kill a horse. Ever.vthing in the room is a shelf--the tloor. the couch. his desk~ the beds. Books. 
socks. his robe. typewriter. paper. used Klccnexcs, half a dozen pairs of shoes. pants. coat~. and records arc scattered all 
over the room. If I clean the place up. he can return the room to its original condition in under IS minutes. 
He listens to music which is so ancient it bn· t even classical. It's some Dark Ages stuff with a lot of tlutes and drums and falsetto yelling. 
He farts in his sleep. 
He goes to bed about 4 a.m. and complains about my "early to bed. early to rise" habits when I want to go to bed a·t 2. He eats with his mouth O]Jen. He loves to look at porno magazines but he hasn't had a date for over a year. 
He can't hold his liquor. . 
He verbally abuses all the girls I date. He wouldn't know how to physicallv abuse them. · · 
He has the tact of a punc..h in the----. 
He is extremely ugly. 
What should I do? 

Disgusted in Keenan 
ON THE TUBE 

Jubilee (Ch. 16 at 8:30 PM): Bing Crosby, Liza Minelli and a host of stars in would you believe a musical tribute to the IOOth anniversary of the telephone. The Lords of Flatbush (28/9:00 PM): The 
talc of a gang of greasers in New York City during the ever-popular SO's, worth watch­ing if only for the novelty of seeing Henry (The Fonz) Winkl.:!r in a dramatic role. 
Midnight Special (16/ I :00 AM): A salute to composer Jimmy Webb features Little Richard. Eric Carmen and Gordon Light­foot. Helen Reddy is hostess. Again. 
Saturday 

NCAA SemiRnals ( 16/2:00 & 4:00 PM): Michigan, who defeated the Irish in the regional semifinals, meets Rutgers in the first game followed by Indiana vs. the Bruins of UCLA to determine the finalists in the Tournament. 
A Moon for the Misbegotten (34/10:00 PM): The outstanding Broadway cast (Jason Robards, Colleen Dwhurst and Ed Flanders) brings Eugene O'Neill's stirring play to PBS, unfortunately at an hour that is inconvenient for many. 
Sunday 

Leave It to Beaver (16/9:00 AM): Wally learns a hard lesson about credit when he goes into business for himself as an ice-cream salesman. A must for BA's. 
The Valachl Papers (28/9:00 PM): A somewhat heavyhanded account based on the confessions of a Mafia thug turned informer. Charles Bronson stars. 
Monday 

NCAA Flnals(l6/8:00 PM): The winners of Saturday's games square off to deter­mine college basketball's king. Dick iive from the Spectrum in Philadelphia. 
John Denver and Friend (28/9:00 PM): John Denver is a little squirt with a dutch-boy haircut and glasses who sings about mountain and sunshine. And friend is the absolute King of Sing himself, Frank Sinatra. I guess you do have to take the good with the bad. Some fine big-band music should make this well worth watching The 48th Annual Academy Awards (28/ 
10:00 PM): ~egardless of how you fell about the Oscar ceremony, it is always interesting. The nominations this year demonstrate a somewhat higher level of sophistication on the part of the Academy than has been evident in recent years. 
Tuesday 
Liberty (16/9:30 PM): David Brinkley hosts this unusual and insightful documentary that examines the evolution of freedome throughout American history. 
The Red Badge of Courage (16/8:00 PM): One of the finer films of the made-for-TV genre, this is a rendition of Stephen Crane's classic about a young Union soldier in the Civil War. Richard Thomas does a fine job of communicating the more human side of Henry Fleming that was the highlight of the novel. 
Thursday 
Slaugherhouse-Five (16/9:00 PM): A faithful adaptation of Kurt Vonnegut, Jr.'s best-seller about the time-travels of Billy Pilgrim. One of the best TV offerings this week. 
Helter-Skelter (22/9:00 PM): An unpre­viewed TV film b~sed on Bugliosi-Gentry best-seller about the Tate-LaBianca mur­ders. Part II will be aired tomorrow night, 
Enberg and C~~. ??~?r .r~l?<?l'!.t~c; .a~~i?'!· •••• ,s.aee._~i.!"~! ~~~; .s.t~ti~n. 
dauid o'keefe 
ON THE SCREEN 
The Man Who Would Be King: John 
Huston has been waiting a long tim~ to 
make this movie based on the writings of 
Rudyard Kipling, and it was well worth the wait. Sean Connery and Michael Caine, two of the United Kingdom's best actors, star as a pair of Britons who go to India to rule the natives. Nominated for four Oscars. (Forum Cinema I, adult ticket: $3.00) 
Gable and Lombard: Time has called this movie dull banal and exploitation. In fact not many people are saying very many nic things about this "biography" of film star 
Clark Gable and Carol  Lombard.  (Tow1  
and Country Cinema ll, $3.00)  
One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest:  Abol  

the only person who is unhappy with thi film is author Ken Kesey, whose novel ha been turned into one of the best movies c the year. Both Jack Nicholson and Louis Fletcher have earned Oscar nomination for their performances, as has the film fo ~est Movie. It does get a bit gross a ttmes, so be forwarned as far as it possibility as a date is concerned. (Scots dale: $3.00) 
ON TAP 
Happy Hour: Junior Class tonight at Fa Wally's. Pitchers are $1.25, hot dogs are quarter. You must be 21. Tee hee. 
On the Air 
WSND Album Hour (12:00 PM) Monday (special): Kinks-Preservation Act I and II (11 :00 PM) Schoolboys In Disgrace (12:00 PM) Tuesday: Genesis-A Trick of the Tale Wednesday: Phoebe Snow-Second ChlL hood 
•Thursday.~:, KingOsh ,., •> . 


b_reak of day arising/ From sullen earth, smgs hymns at heaven's gate"? He could have written lines like that for the frisbee, but of course, he didn't. Frisbees don't sing anyway. Sometimes priests wishing they were God's frisbees don't sing much either, though hopefully, at heaven's gate, they will someday sing hymns. 
In the meantime, there is the restless­ness of springtimes to be lived through, and right now, one feels inadequate to that gift of glory. Everywhere, soon, it will be April, and you still feel as shabby as a worn winter coat. April, it is 5aid, is the cruellest month but then, ;f ever. the forsythia comes, when it seems that the earth itself is a young girl giving candles away to everyone. With the forsythia to charm us, we don't need to sail like the frisbee into the pathway of the sun, because the sunshine has come to us on every yellow shrub. At least, that's what I keept telling my~elf, in a fit of bad poetry and lousy logtc. Otherwise those kids with their plastic toys outside my window would really drive me to drink. 
Dear Digusted, 
I have it on good authority that you're 
not exactly a cuddly kitten yourself. But we 
won't get into that here. 
Remember, that beauty is in the eye of 
t~c beholder•. so try a new pair of glasses. 
II that docsn t work. I know a 1ailor who 
makes great straightjackets, in case you 
really do go crazy. 
P.S. W:~trh th" n:~nlC'. Bonnie. Dear Clydcmncstra, 
I am writing to you because I have no one 
else to turn to. This is the first time I have 
ever written to a service such as vours. and 
I am really" so emharassed. · 
My problem concerns my roommate. 
Whenever we split a pizza from rood sales. 
he never pays for his half. I am the one 
who always calls and orders the pizza; and 
I_ am always the one who runs down, pays 
lor the pizza and brings it back to the room. 
But my roommate never offers to pay me 
b~c~ for his h~lf ?f the pizza. I am really 
atr~td to ask tum for the money. because he 
wetghs 100 lbs. more than I do. and he 
might explode into a rage and belt me. 1 
don't think he really means to cheat me out 
of my money. I think he just forgets to pay 
me back. But. as I have said. I am afraid to 
approach him for repayment. Can you 
help me solve my dimemna. and live the 
happy life I once lived? God bless you, Clydcmnestra, Dear Pizza, Pizza F 
Come up to my room sometime, and we 
can take care of your embarrassment then. 
In the meantime, add a little kaopectate 
to the pepperoni and cheese. After a 
co~ple of_ weeks he sould lose plenty of 
wetght, smce he seems full of something 
besides pizza. 
Then collect. 
Dear Clytemnestl'a, 
I am a bewildered freshman and after 
consulting every other counselor I know 
and getting no satisfaction, I've decided to 
write to you. 
My problem is I don't know what I want 
to be. It wasn't until four years ago that I 
stopped wanting to be a fireman, and I 
gave up on being the president after Nixon 
was forced to resign (it destroyed all my 
dreams about the office). 
When I came to Notre Dame last 
semester I had decided I wanted to be a 
drama major. But around November I got 
real interested in nuclear physics. My 
problem is I can't do math and am 
presently Dunking Calc lOS. 
My parents want me to become a 
business major or a premed, my counselor 
says to go into the general program in Arts 
and Letters, my girlfriend says to jump in 
the lake, and my dog bit me when I went 
home for spring break. 
Can you please tell me what you think I 
should do? Thanks a whole lot. 
Bewildered freshman 

Dear Bewildered, 
Anyway, have you thought of forgetting everybody and becoming a dining hall CQef? You can do anything you want in there, and somebody will eat it. . • 
! 
~ ~-­
J •. ". ','.
8 the obser'Ver'' Friday, March 26, 1976 
I I New postal equipment destroys 
I 
~ packages entrusted to the mails
l t I WASHINGTON AP -Postal offi­had been torn loose from their At the heart of the system are 21 
~ cials said vestcrdav thev didn't wrappings. centers with new machinery de­~ realize that. new michineiy would "I didn't take into account that signed to reduce the need for I also provide a new way to break up with new machines we have a new manual handling of packages. I packages because they were study­way of breaking up packages," Wilson contends that the mach­~ ing the wrong statistics. Dorsey said. "We overlooked an inery has damaged millions of 
I 
Chairman Charles H.Wilson of obvious problem and we did not parcels. the House Postal Facility subcom­react fast enough." Dorsey told the subcommittee: l mittee told postal officials that the Dorsey also acknowledged that ''the magnitude of the damage I nC\\. centers for handling bulk mail mail had gotten mixed in trash at problem is large percentage wise 
I 
arc a "management blunder of the bulk mail centers in Washington and certainly it is a temporary tirst magnitude." and Memphis and been taken to problem which can be corrected, I Both Senior Asst. Postmaster the dump. He said the agency is but we recognize that the results to I l;cneral E. V. Dorsey and Asst. now examining trash before it is date are unacceptable." I Postmaster General Edgar S. taken awav. Once these "start-up problems" I Hrowcr said they were unaware of Wilson said he believes the bulk are corrected, he said, "we will be I the damage rate until Wilson made mail centers ''will cost the Ameri­able to provide quality service at I a ~urprise visit to the Detroit center can public millions of dollars while reasonable cost to the American 
! 
and found thousands of damaged lowering the quality of mail ser­public.'' parL-cls. vice." Rep. William D. Ford. D-Mich 
Thev said thev had been fol­Postal officials disagreed saying said. "The Postal Service in its ilm ing statistics-on how many the$1 billion system will "show a wisdom may have designed an
I 
I 
I parcels' wrappings had to be return on investment of 10 per Edsel and now it is insisting we I repaired by the Postal Service. But cent" per year ov~r what contin­don't have an Edsel. I'm totally they said they had failed to follow uing the old system would have unsatisfied with the nature of the 
the statistics on how many items cost. management .·' 
Public Service Commission controversy threatens delays for approval of increases 
INDIANAPOLIS AP-A squabble as ISO percent. a particular utility in the future." at the Public Service Commission Powers said he hasn't decided Powers said. 
over Indiana's controversial fuel whether his new policy against He acknowledged the commis­adjustment clause threatens to adjustments will go into operation sion still could approve fuel adjust­delay approval of future increases. immediately or in 90 days, when ments with yes votes from Chair­
One of the three commissioners 

Wednesday's order upholding ad­man Larry J. Wallace and Commis­who set rates and grant fuel justments takes effect. sioner James Plaskett. adjustments for Hoosier utilities But ironically. included in the 29 But he said his action would announced Thursday he would no fuel adjustment requests now delay approval of adjustments on longer approve fuel adjustments. awaiting his decision. are. requests c:}ays when one of the other The commissioner, William B. by Indiana and Michigan and · commissioners was absent. And it Powers. dissented from a PSC .Northern Indiana ·Public Service also would mean that in cases order Wednesday upholding the Co. to decrease the average 'cus~ where one of the other commis­
:··riMM·p·iRrY·s·f<5ifE···!
validity of the state'·s fuel adjust­tomer's monthly bill by 29 cents sioners dissented, the adjustment ment clause. which allows electric arid 10 cents respectively. · would be denied. utilities to pass on to consumers "It's my belief we don't need "It's not a personal protect," he !OPEN: MON-SAT 9am-llpm! increases in the cost they pay for ·"fuel ~tdjustments now," Powers said. "I'm just marching to a • • 
fuel without a full scale rate said. '"Fuel prices have stabi­different drummer." : SUNDAY 12noon -11 pm : hearing. lized." Powers said the fuel adjustment In his dissent. Powers called for "Since I voted against the fuel was 1974,
necessary in 1973 and i COLD BEER,WINE, LIQUOR, i an end to residential customer fuel adjustment clause in the main case when coal and gas prices were 
adjustments. which have boosted Wednesday. I don't see how I can skyrocketing. "at the time. it was ! GORMET FOODS ! some monthly electric bills as much vote for it in an individual order for needed." he said. 
But Powers said stabilized fuel ! 3114 S. 11 St. NILES, MICHIGAN i prices, abuses by utility and the 
: "BIGGEST LITTLE : 
complexity of the fuel adjustment
Principal locked in office 
formula made him chaQge his : LIOUQR ST·ORE IN Mtrulr-llN" :
•••••••~•••••••••••••••••~·•a\~~~ ~'''~•••••
mind. 
by Arthur Everett pupils are on strike, boycotting Associated Press Writer classes and marching outside, wav­Rubinstein has ~·················¥·················
ing signs that read "No Hurwitz, * 
NEW YORK (AP) -With the No School," and chanting "With­89th birthday : COLLEGE EDUCATION t 
support of parents, teachers and out the 'Doc' We'd be Sick." striking students, a Long Island In his 40 years in the city's public PHILADELPHIA (APl -Two : * corner of Logan and Jefferson : * 
bakers rolled out a piano-shaped
principal is in the third day of a school system of 1.1 million pupils, 
birthday cake after Arthur Rubin­
sit-in at his own office to resist his Hurwitz has gained a reputation as 
* * 
stein's .concert at the Academy of
suspension by the Board of Educa­a strict disciplinarian, in an era in : FINEST : 
Music to commemorate his 89th
tion for dismissing a teen-aged girl which many of the city schools have birthday.
whom he labeled a chronic trouble become pits of student rebellion. 24 HOUR RESTAURANT
Rubinstein. who made his A­: : 
maker. Last year he was engaged in a 
merican debut with the Philadel­
·'I will not leave unless I'm controversy with the board over his 
phia Orchestra at Carnegie Hall in 
i IN MICHIANA i
arrested by the police,'' Howard censorship of the student news­
New York. played selections from
Hurwitz said yesterday. "I won't paper. 
Beethoven, Ravel and Chopin at
resist. but thev'll have to take me The current showdown between : * catering to : * 
the Wednesday night concert.
out of here in handcuffs. It will be the 60-year-old principal and his 
Plagued by failing eyesight,
highly visible." superiors began building March 5 
: ND-SMC LATE NIGHT NEEDS :
Rubinstein has indicated he prob­
Since Tuesday. Hurwitz has when he suspended a 15-year-old 
ably will not play much more after
defied the board's efforts to sus­girl for abusing and threatening a * * 
this concert reason. His wife,
pend him by barricading himself school secretary. He said the girl : FEATURING COLLEGIATE SPECIAL · : 
Aniela. joined the pianist on stage
in his office with the aid of a had a record of discord dating back 
and received roses.
~tudent-parenHeacher sit-in in the to kindergarten. : "JACK OMELET" i hallwav outside. However, a local antipoverty A state Supreme Court hearing agency, Qualicap, obtained a law­
* * 
50¢ BOOK SALE
l'or yesterday was postponed until yer for the girl, charging that her 
* Daily Lunch Special Hamburgers * 
next Tuesday in hopes that a rights had been violated. 
Ll BRARYCONCOURSE 
** * ~
compromise can be worked out. A Hurwitz was ordered to reinstate 
MARCH 29 cr1d 30

board spoke~man said he doubted the girl. When he refused, Schools 
i BREAKFAST SERVED ANYTIME:
"that any attempt to have Dr. Chancellor Irvin~ Anker suspended 
sponsored by n.d. library assoc. Hurwitz removed by police would him from his $35,000-a-year post, 
* 

be made before the next court with pay at first, later without. 
*••·········~·······················
date." At 4:30 a.m. Tuesday, Hurwitz 
t----.------­
Meanwhile, the school's 3,000 went to the office he has occupied for 10 years and barricaded himself
Post Office inside. "I don't want to be a dictator andloses body I'm willing to compromise with the 



129 north michigan street, downtown south bend
The Postal Service has lost the board." he declared. "But I don't ·.Tcmated remains of a man sent feel that I should be forced to go 
OPENING THE WEEK OF MARCH 15 
Appearing soon:
through the mail for burial at along with an arbitrary and capric­
Sugarfoot, Max Bunster & others Fri., Sat., March 19, 20 The Bluegrass Alliance Thur., Fri., Sat., March 25, 26, 27 
,\rlington National Cemetery, offi­ious order.'' 
cials say. Admitting insubordination, 
Collegiate Jazz Festival Fri., Sat., Aprll2, 3
Hurwitz said that ''if I were in theMary Pickford Army and ordered to shoot down 
c; R-AND OPEN'lNc; C:E LESRA.T ION's APR1L <l 7 lO 
women and children, I wouldn't 
with the string band of Martin, Bogen, and the Armstrongs
to receive Oscar obey orders either." 
featuring blues harpist Big Walter Horton Sat., April 9 
LOS ANGELES-''I've had a won-Supporters in the hallway out­derful life," says Mary Pickford, side have brought Hurwitz food 
R,EAL .M.USIC~ FOOD AND DR1N~.
"America's Sweetheart" of silent and other necessities and have films who will be honored next turned back board officials and 
Homemade Food, Popular Prices & No Computers 
week with a special Oscar from the lawyers trying to serve eviction '1!:::~~~~~!!!~" Motion Picture A~:ademy.• · · · • · • · • oFaeis'ori;flie',Pfmcipat: •• ! ·.' .• .• 







.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 
lv started down the path of irrcs­l;on~ibility" by organizing a haras~mcnt ~:ampain. He said 
protl''>t~ Wl'rl' lodged in Moscow and Wa~hington. 
The United States warned that 
I a 1 tha It I
~udr harra~smcnt l'otrld jeopardize Amnil'an-Soviet relations, already I ~ ~traint•d following Soviet interven­tion in Angola. ~ I 
The formal proteo;t was the first I ~ daim that ofticial Soviet groups 

~ I
were involvt·d in harassment. The prote!->t followl·d a U.S. letter the 
I ~ 
day before which said some tcle­ph.onc calls had threatened "the 
~ I 
)~hooting of individuals" in the 
emba)lsy. ~ WHEN YOU BUY THIS REALISTIC® ! 
Funseth said the callers "seemed to be reading from a 
paper." I STEREO COMPONENT SYSTEM ~ 
The U.S. protest said all possible 
~ I
measures were being taken to protect the lives and property of Soviet . citizens working in the United States. 
But the Soviets have lodged 
I o~~;~;~~~s 26995 I
three formal protests since Feb. 29, claiming American "hooligans" and "Zionists' ' arc getting off scot-free after demonstrations and ! ~ violence at Soviet establishments in ~ COMPLETE SYSTEM INCLUDES: I New York City. 
! •Realistic STA-47 AM-FM Stereo ~ 
A pipe bomb was found yester­
~ Receiver with Built-In Quatravox ® ~ 
day in a stairwell between floors occupied by a Soviet trading agen­! •Two Realistic Mini-1 0 Walnut ~ 
cy in a New York Office building. Offices on four floors were being ~ Veneer Bookshelf Speaker Systems ! evacuated for two hours while the 
! •Realistic LAB-12C Changer with i
homh was removed. Sources said last night that ~ Base and $12.95 Value Magnetic ~ Ambassador Walter J. Stoessel Jr. 
~ Stereo Cartridge ~ 
was told to come to the Soviet Foreign Miuistry Monday to re­
I ~ 
ceive another protest believed to involve the security of Soviets in 
~ I 
the United States. 
The embassy spokesman said I ~ yesterday's bomb scare was the iir'>t at ·the cmbassv since 1971, 
~ I 
when Americans in ·Moscow were 
I ~ 
harrasscd after violence against Soviet oflice)l and citizens by 
~ I 
militant .Jews in New York. 
The spokesman said an unidenti­I ~ lit•s man speaking unal·cented Eng li~h called the embassy's security desk and said a four-pound block of "C-4 plastic explosive with detona­
!~ cHAHGE'IJ ~~~·~ o [) r ,, !I 
000 (, •
tors" would go off at 12::27 p.m. The man said the dcviec would be 
! U ~
At Radio Shack 
in ofliccs on the ground floor of the 25-vcar-old. I 0-lloor embassy ~ -i g 
I 

building on Tchaikovsky Street. embassy sources reported. ! ftad1e ~ About SO American and Russian staffers in ground-lloor offices and 
14 nursery school students were ~ SCOTTSDALE MALL ~ I 
~ ~ 
$135 million campaign 
Flu vaccine for everyone 
WASHINGTON AP-Government he enough time to produce vaccine nation." 
health oflit•ials t:oncedcd yesterday to immunize everyone, they said. Secretary David Mathews of 
that the $135 million t:ampaign to "It's a choice between gambling Health, Education and Welfare 
give flu shots to almost every with money or gambling with said there had been no disagree­
American next fall is a gamble, but lives," reporters were told by Dr. mcnt with the President's position 
they argued it is safer to risk Harry M. Meyer, director of the from any of the outside advisers to 
doliars than human lives. Bureau of Biologics at the Food and the Foocl and Drug Administration 
There is no way to be absolutely Drug Administration. and the U.S. Center for Disease 
certain that the swine flu virus, White House Press Secretary Control, i10r from scientific, medi­
which killed 20 million persons l{on Nessen told reporters ycstcr-cal, pharmaceutical and other or­
worldwide in a 1918-19 epidemic day that none of the scientists at a ganizations polled before the White 
and then lay dormant almost half a m~eting Wednesday could predict House meeting Wednesday. 
L'L'nturv. ~-ill become the next the probability of an epidemic or But scattered dissent was heard 
global· intluerwt epidemic, they how deadly one might be after the yesterday over the need 
~aid. flu strain showed up in New Jersey for mass immunization on a scale 
But if that doc~ occur next fall last month. never before attempted in the and winter. and no advance pre­''This is an insurance policy,'' United States. paration~ arc made there wouldn't he said. "Yout:anncver prove that In Geneva, the World Health 
it is the right thing to do." Organization, WHO said it was 
If there was an epidemic next surprised by the U.S. decision, 
year and no vaccination program which will have worldwide implka­
undcr way "we'd be in the soup," lions. A WHO spokesman said he 
Threatening calls 
in Moscow 

Nessen said. knew of no other country consid-
Hc said President Ford told the ering similar program, and thatblamed on Reds health authorities at the meeting there had been no evidence that the 
what he planned to do and that swine virus has spread outside of 
none objel'!cd. Ft. Dix. N.J. 
MOSCOW AI'-The United States 
Ford, in announcing his intention In Oklahoma City, Dr. Armand accused Soviet officials vesterday to ask Congress for a special $135 Start, the state epidemiologist, said of organizing a series <;f threat­million supplemental appropriation the $tJS million plan might be ening late-night telephone calls to to pay for production of swine flu "overkill" but would be appealingll.S. Embassy employees here vaccine, acknowledged that "no in the election year.
and a lunchtime bomb threat that one knows cxactlv how serious this Suggesting that Ford's proposal ~ent cmba~sy stallcrs spilling from 
threat could be.,; might be politically motivated, their ofliccs. 
"Ncvcrthl'less," the President Start said, "What better way to 
State Department ~pokcsman added, "we cannot atTord to take a show the administration is pro-
Robert Fun~th ~aid in Washington, chance with the health of our tccting the health of the nation?" 
"Soviet authorities have apparcnt­,... 
Friday, March 2b, 197b . 
tt-.e observer 

SUNDAYMASSES (Main Church) 
5:15 p.m Sat. Rev. Robert Griffin, C.S.C. 
9:30 a.m. Sun. Rev. Edward Malloy, C.S.C. 
10:45 a.m. Sun. Rev. Mark Searle, O.F. M. 
12:15 p. m Sun. Rev. Bill Toohey, C.S.C. 
Evensong will be at 4 :30 p.m in Lady Chapel. Professor William 

I CHICAGO TRIBUNE.NOW! HIGHEST RATING 
SUN TIMES 

1111Bman WhoWould BB King•• 
D 
JACKanclthe BfMSDU.K .~
""" ....... 

FRI.S :00-6:45-8 :JO.Sat.Sun.l :00-2:50­
·6 :45-8:30 


HE WAS A GOOD COP .. ON A BIG BIKE..ON 

~ 

evacuated while the area was Most 1tems also avaolable 
;IIIII at Rad•o Shack Dealers. ~ 
searched. No bomb was found and ~ Look for th1s s•e:n ~ on your neighborhood. ~ 
normal work resumed. ...~~~~~.....~~~,..,...............................................................................................................................................
'' 

Shop
Exceeds national rate V) * * 
0 ~ 
* NEW LOCATION
T

Indiana crime increases "GRAND OPENING" * 
INDIANAPOLIS AP -Serious crime in Indiana's six largest cities increased 14.9 percent last year, sharply above the national average, the FBI reported today. 
The national jump was 9 percent. 

The figures indicated that crime increased faster in Indiana last year than it did in 1974. while the increase slowed significantly on a national level. 
In 1974, the state crime index was 10.2 percent higher than 1973, compared with an average national increase of 18 percent. 
The preliminary FBI report re­leased today showed the biggest jump in Indianapolis. the only one of the six Hoosier ciaties to report an increase in each of the seven categories. Overall, the Hoosier capital saw a_22.5 percent jump, including 20 more murders than L l'r'4. 
Evansville registered an 11.2 percent drop. mainly due to fewer reported property crimes. 
The other four Indiana cities in 

the FBI listing reported increases ­
19.2 percent in Fort Wayne, 14.2 percent in South Bend, 12.9 per­cent in Gary and 10.2 percent in Hammond. Garv had 18 fewer murders than in 1974, an 18.9 pcrl'ent decrease. 
Overall. the violent crives of murder, forcible rape, robbery and aggravated assault increased 16.3 percent in the six cities, compared with a 5 percent national jump. 
Councilman sues to show movie 
ROCHESTER. N.Y. (AP) -City 

Councilman Christopher Lindley 
has gone to court to win the right to 
show the movie ''All the Presi­
dent's Men" to pay off his cam­
paign debts. 
Lindlev. a Democrat, said he had 

planned -to show the movie April 7 
and has sold 390 tickets at $10 each 
to pay $3.500 in debts left from his 
successful election campaign last 
fall. 
Warner Bros .. however. told him 

he could not show the movie. he 
said. because it had an agreement 
with actor Robert Redford not to 
allow usc of the movie for political 
purposes. 
Lindley's lawyer. Thomas Dig­

man said he phoned Redford in 
Utah, but couldn't get him to 
change his mind. 
"He is a very decent. forthright 

guy." Digman said. "But he's 
antipolitical this year and said the 
movie was made for the people." 
An order issued Wednesday by 

the state Supreme Court directs 
Warner Bros. and Jo-Mor Enter­
prise~. the local theater operator, 
to show cause Monday why the 
picture cannot be screened. 
Udall files motion to stay on ballot 
CHICAGO AP-Democratic pres­
idential contender Morris K. Udall 

asked a federal appeals court 
vcsterdav to allow his name to 
remain .on the Indiana primary 
ballot. 
Udall. an Arizona congressman. 

was ruled off the ballot a week ago 
for failing to obtain the required 
500 voter signatures in one of the 
'>tate's congressional districts, 
though he met the requirement in 
the other 10 districts. 
A U.S. Distric Court in Indiana­
polis rull'd Tuesday against Udall's 

,·omplaint that the signature regu­
latiun was unconstitutional and 
di~LTiminatcd against the rest of 
the Indiana voters. 
The motion tiled yesterday askes 
the 2nd U.S. Circuit Court of 
\ppeals to certify Udall as a 

candidate in the May 4 primary and 
to notify Indiana's county clerks to 
leave space for his name on the 
ballots until the appeal is heard. 
Named as defendants were In­

diana Gov. Otis Bowen, Bowen 
aide William Lloyd.lndiana Sec. of 
State Larry Conrad and Indiana 
Board of elections members James 
T. Neal and Thruman De Moss. 
The defendants were ordered to answer the motion by noon Mon­day. 
c, •..•...•.•. 

Property crimes of burglary, and assault both climbed 17 per­0 z larceny and vehicle theft were up cent in Indiana and 5 percent w < * * * 
14.7 percent in the Hoosier cities, nationally. compared with 9 percent national­Assault was the only category * 
WE HAVE MOVED BUT
n ~ 

ly. serious crime that increased in all There were nine more murders six Hoosier cities. 
::E STILL OFFER THE SAM 
in the lndiuna cities, a 4.2 percent Burglary increasesd 14.4 percent increase compared with a 1 percent in Indiana, 7 percent nationally; 
& DELICIOUS PIZZAS 
decrease nationally. Rape, which larcent-theft 17.9 percent in In­increased 1 percent nationally, rose diana, 12 percent nationally, and 
c

8. 7 percent in Indiana, with 52 vehicle theft 9 percent in Indiana, 2 more than in 1974, while robbery percent nationally. 
"JUST ARRIVED" t~ __ Brand new shipment of ~(ID [1il ~macrame beads & pendants. 
~~~~;:_~},,,, Many unusual items. 
,.. :{:"'-\~\ \ \\\..\' 
2340 miracle lane
town&country ~i~'lir-t" 
shopping center ~\!_.. mishawaka, indiana 46544 219/256-0111 
NEW TURQUOISE JEWEL.RY SHIPMENT!!!!! 
20% off on all turquoise jewelry 
ZUNI, NAVAJO, ~ SOME MEXICAN INDIAN 
• WATCH REPAIR 
MARK D. HIRTH 
·A"

Licensed Watchmaker " ~ 
• 
CLOCK REPAIR 

• 
JEWELRY REPAIR 


HIRTH'S JEWELERS 
t!'.
SM {l

• ENGRAVING 
913 W. McKinley Hwy.
• ANTIQUE 
Coli ege Square
WATCH 
If ~ 

Mishawaka, Indiana 
& CLOCK 
'i 

REPAIR 
(219) 255-381 7 (219) 287-9893 
-+-SHOPPING CENTER •
•TIMEX REPAIR 
Business 
Home 
~~ 
I RT.20 

SANDWICHES YOU HAVE ENJOYED OVER THE YEARS. 
815 W. McKINLEY (COLLEGE SQUARE) MISHAWAKA OPEN 11 :00 AM DAILY 
PHONE 256-1853 
Now a Bose Direct/Reflecting bookshelf speaker and its under $100. 
If you thought it couldn't be done, you don't know BOSE. Because the new BOSE MODEL 301 speaker is just that. A bookshelf speaker that provides reflected and direct sound performance in the tradition of the internationally-famous BOSE 901® and 501 speakers. 
It provides such astounding performance for its size that, /rankly, it's hard to believe that this speaker costs under $100. But it does. And, it's easy to place and can be adapted to all room environments. Come in this week and ask to hear a demonstration of the new 
hear it. 
· 


Come You Fightin' Irish 
TO TOWN &COUNTRY FOR YOUR FAVORITE 
WINES-LIQUORS 
Both Stores Open Nights 'til 11 PM 
LIQUOR • WINE 10% DISCOUNT WITH ND-SMC I.D. BEER · BEST PRICE IN TOWN VOLUME DISCOUNT FREE DELIVERY 
FREE 

GOING TO A PARTY?? DELIVERY 
••I•'"'"' ,,...,,-..r,,...,,.. ......... • • a·• ._,.,..,.vt•l'' · • I • ~ ~ · -""'~~" .. ,..,.,.. ... ,.,•.• ,,,.,.,,.s•••••·••••• .lrt'ri...,,,,_.,..,.......,._...,.._..,,.. ....................~ .. ,...,~..-~-·"'.,..,...._,. • .-._... . ..,._._.J-._,.'#'""'""-"J>'~'-"''f
rfft, 


,. -. ... 
t I 
Leave Angola by Saturday 
South Africa withdraws 
CAPE TOWN, South Africa AP­South Africa announced yesterday it will withdraw all its forces from southern Angola by Saturday, thereby defusing the possibility of a clash with Cuban troops in the region. 
Defense Minister P. W. Both a said the withdrawal of between 
3.000 andS,OOO troopsguarding the multimillion-dollar Cunene river hydroelectric and irrigation project was taking place following A.1golan guarantees to protect South Afri­ca's border interests. 
His statement confirmed a gov­ernment announcement over the weekend that South African troops would get out ot Angola once the government was convinced the guarantees would hold. 
It also came on the eve of a debate at the United nations in which South Africa probably would have been branded an "aggressor" in southern Angola. There are an estimated 12.000 Cuban troops in Angola. 
Soviet Foreign Minister Andrei 
A. Gromo. winding up a three-day visit to London said the Kremlin 
Lebanese President flees ruined palace; vows to rule until his term is over 
BEIRUT. Lebanon AP-Moslem shcllfirc forced Christian President Suleiman Franjich to abandon his shattered palace yesterday, but he said he would continue in office. 
Savage fighting raged unchecked through the Beirut area and Chris­tians called for reinforcements. 
The 65-ycar-old president. who had sworn to leave the once-ele­gant glass and stone palace "only if they carry me out dead," took refuge in the Christian town of Jounieh 12 miles north of Beirut. 
Christian and Moslem militias continued artillery and rocket bar-
AIM man fights extradition 
SANDIEGO(AP)-DennisBanks says 500.000 persons in California have signed petitions asking Gov. Edmund Brown Jr. to deny South 
Dakota's application for extradition of the American Indian Movement leader. "My life may not be worth 20 minutes after I cross the state 
~~~f~~en~:n~ed~:~da;~ ~en::~ 
,-----------~--------------------~--------------------------------------------------------------------~y 
WANTED 

Need ride to Pitt. April 2. Call Bob, 3665. 
Need ride to Toledo Friday. Call Peggy, 6661. 
Need ride to Cleveland, Friday, 26th, for one or two. Call Mary Kay, 4338. 
Need ride to N. Detroit suburbs area. Southfield, Birmingham, etc. Leave Fri, 
3 26. Pay !!. Call 8466 after 11 p.m. 
FOR SALE 

For sale: dual 1229 turntable with base, dust cover and Shure V 15 cartridge. S260. Call 1924. 
Must sell quality stereo components. Call Ron at 287 0885. 
FOR RENT 

For rent next school term: 5 bedrooms 2 
baths  all  furnished,  porch,  off  street  
parking.  Near  ND.  9  month  lease.  
234 2626.  

Summer rentals, 4 bedroom, 5 bedroom house, 1 bedroom apt., 3 bedroom apt. · all furnished. Near ND. Very reasonable. 234 2626. 
4, 5, 6 bedroom houses. Completely furnished. Extremely nice. Real close to campus. Sept. 1976, 9 month lease, 233 2613 or 232 7263. 
Summer houses and rooms for rent real close to campus. Furnished ridiculously reasonably priced. 233-2613 or 232-7263. 
Furnished houses, two to seven bedroom. Available for September or June. CAll 234 9364. 
rages against each other's posi­tions. and spread terror with random shelling in residential areas of both sides. 
Police said at least 217 persons were killed and 366 wounded in the Beirut area Thursday. The toll was incomplete because ambulance crews could not enter battle zones. Hospitals throughout Beirut ap­pealed for blood donors. 
The death toll boosted past the 
1.000 mark the number killed since the last cease-fire ended March 11. when the Moslem commander of tlw Beirut garrison declared hin;­
he expects to achieve his goal of one million signatures by April 3. An extradition hearing is set for 
April 7 in San Francisco. Banks, who has yet to be sentenced after being convicted of riot and assault in Custer, S.D., in 1973. He is free 
on $5,000 bond pending the extra­dition hearing and another $100,­
~~~ar~~sn~ha~;es ~~p~~:~on.federal 
and Britain are working for an Angola settlement and disavowed any Soviet designs on Rhodesia and Namibia. Namibia, also know ans South-west Africa, is a former German colony held by South Africa despite repeated United Nations demands that it get out. 
British Prime Minister Harold Wilson told the House of Commons in London that a "new and ex­tremely serious situation" would arise if Cuban forces were to intervene in any other territory in southern Africa. ''This is some­thing we have made clear to all concerned in recent weeks." he said. 
South Africa's interior and in­formation minister. Connie Mul­der, told a Paris news conference that dialogue between South Africa and certain unnamed black African countries is "going well" and semi-official or private contacts will continue. He said there were more of these contacts than generally believed, but did not elaborate. 
American intelligence specialists in Washington said another white separatist African government, 
NOTICES 
Happy Hour, Kubiaks, Friday, 3-26. Presented by Stanford and McCandless Halls. Let's get rowdy people! 
Concert March 27 O'Laughlin Aud. 
8:00 pm. Students $1.00. We Together Singers of South Bend plus Faith Unlim­ited from Canada & Spirit. Inc from Iowa will share their gift of song. Join us. 
Accurate, fast typing. Hours, 8 am to 8 pm. Mrs. Donoho, 232-0746. 
STEREO COMPONENTS+'!• ?-t'h? PER CENT DISCOUNT. All qualtiy name brands. RMSaudio, 321 S. Main, '288· 1681, M F, 12:00 6:00. 
Papers professionally and promptly typed. IBM Selectric II and complete typing service. Call 277-2922. 
Will do typing, experienced. Term pa­pers, manuscripts, etc. Call 233-8512. 
We are your roommate, your professor, your sister, your priest. Gay Community of Notre Dame. Hotline, 8870, Fri and Sat. 8-10 pm. Or write Box 206. 
FOREIGN STUDENTS: Shipping abroad? Low rates. Free information. internation­al Activities Corporation, Call (312 (-595-­7310. 
LOST & FOUND 
Our son lost his class ring ('77) at a Pep Rally not long ago. It had a sapphire stone and we are unable to replace it. The ring means a great deal to us. Could the finder please contact the editor of the 
Observer for positive identification of the ring? We would be extremely grateful. 
Lost: Pipe, around Lafortune or Archy Bldg. Call 287-0742. 
Reward tor return of Vivitar flash attachment,,lost Sat, ·J;'Ilb,.'~l· C,aii6B34 or 
1715. 

that of Rhodesia, cannot survive a guerrilla war with black nationa­lists even if Cuba does not inter­vene on the side of the revolution­aries. They also said there now appears no option to a war in Rhodesia unless Prime Minister Ian Smith reverses his position and yields control to the black majority. 
A summit in Lusaka, Zambia. on the unification of the guerrilla movement in Rhodesia and the escalation of guerilla war against Rhodesia ended with a still divided African National Council. The council is the organization that attempts to speak for Rhodesia's black majority. Political talks between the council and Smith last week 
Smith, opening a new bridge in western Rhodesian town of Gwaai River, denied rumors that he had sold his farm and bought land in South Africa because of the guer­rilla threat. "You can be assured that I still have my cattle and my farm and that I own no land outside Rhodes:a and that I have no intention of leaving Rhodesia," he said. 
self provisional military governor of 
~:!;~~~io~~d called for Franjieh's A radio station controlled by Franjieh's supporters said the pres 
~~=~~~~r ~rt~ew:esat ..~f ~~~p;::;r. dency because shellfire had made work in the palace impossible." "President Franjieh will greet all personalities in Jounieh beginning
Thursday afternoon and will return to Baabda as soon as this becomes possible," the station said. Baadba 
is the site of the palace, over­looking war-torn Beirut from a knollfourmileseastofthecapital.
A television station controlled by Franjieh quoted him as saying, "Even if parliament elects a new 
president, Iamremaininguntilthe last day of my tenure." The term ends Sept. 24. 
Franjieh's forced flight was a great morale boost for leftist Mos­lems who have been demanding his resignation. It left Lebanon's 
Christian minority more isolated than ever and further complicated 
:n.;; !~~~~i~~ ;~r~~fo~.1-month civil 
LOST: Complete works of Shakespeare, (Sometime before break), family heir-­loom. Reward. 3378. 
Lost: a blue nylon N D jacket at Burke Golf Course, Monday around 5:00 pm. Please call 3574. Thank you. 
PERSONALS 
Terry: 
Happy 22nd Birthday!!! 

Mary, Mary, M indie, Shevalon, Patti, Mary & Katie 
ATTENTION ALL LAST YEAR'S 5th FLOOR LEMANAICS. TOMORROW IS Linda's Birthday. 20 units of an alcoholic substance will be consumed in her name. Join us Saturday night. 
-Capt. Kirke 

Tex, Oh Sho, yeah rah the posse don't want no more ABUSE. so just shut up! Rangers 
Uncle Charlie has retired from public life. 
Seeber Happy Birthday! One year closer to the big inning. Love, Vege 
SMC GIRLS!! NOVEL IDEA!! Section 9-C, Grace Hall, due to an impulsive idea, wishes to get together with floor or sections of girls who wish to meet INTERESTING people. Informal Party -please call to help arrange, details :6775, 6756 or 6764. 
Come celebrate and meet your vacational friends at the Dillon Derilicts "W elcom Home" kegger. !Friday, Mar. 26 at the Campus View Community Center, 8·2. 
ALL THOSE PERSONS INTERESTED IN WORKING IN STUDENT GOVERN+ MENT AND STUDENT UNION PICK UP APPLICATIONS AT THE STUDENT GOVT. OFFICES, 2nd FLOOR LAFOR· TUNE FROM 9-5. 
.. . 
....•. ,. 
':I .i I 

Friday, March 26, 1976 
1 1 

Americawilling to talk with Vietnamese govt. 
WASHINGTON AP-The United States has sent a carefully worded message to Hanoi through foreign government, probably France, that it is willing to sit down with Communist Vietnam and begin talks that could eventually lead to a normalization of relations. 
U.S. officials said last night tht the first order of business would be setting the fate of Americanas missing in the Indochina war. A response from Hanoi is being awaited. 
The feeler follows a report to Secretary of State Henry A. Kis­singer by Rep. G.V. Montgomery, D-Miss .. who headed a congres­sional team that went to Paris and 
nr.. .. .. A..t.. te..n" tl•o.... n.....i'· .... Htc~ 
U ~ 
~ .
Applications are now being
d fi h l • d ~ 
~ accepte or t e sa arle 
"' • •
'"'OSltlOn O' .f••
.t" 'J 
~ 

Business Manager o·'J.f h Qb .f. 
~t e serl.Jer ,or next year. 
•

4
~ .1-tCCOUntlng ma,·ors only. Send 'JI'esume to . 
1  ,  
7'1 .1. 0 m  ~A 1 Y.l 0  d /•.g l n  • p Q  BQX  Q~  
;:::::=::)U•  ..­ "f!O  ..;  :_  • Htc  "X::::  

*Observer 
Classified Ads 
Typing $.35 a page. Call Dan, 272 5549. 
DaFonz, 
Does everyone have everything? Well you never had it so good. Stick it in your ear. 
The LeMans Forgetfuls 

Golden Lady, 
Seems like our sleeping love never really awoke. Remember late night telephone conversations, parking lot pic­nics, poetry (Louis Simpson), Scottsdale days, Daquiri nights. Remember Boz. 
Packing  my  saddle  bag,  movin'  on,  
empty,  so  is  half  of  souls.  Be  Happy.  
Happy Trails.  
The Kid  

To the SMC Saga Employee who swiped my N D Band Jackel before break: Keep the jacket if you must, but please return the keys and ID. 
La Gala Guggenheim!! 1976 Beaux Arts Ball, Architecture Building, Saturday, March 27, 9 pm. 3 pm. Music by Stratus, tickets available in Arkie Libr<~ry, $5 per couple. $3 single. DECADENT!! 
. 

Dear Dad, 
Rip off the varitype and return John-. ny's I D. You're not getting better. you're getting oldert 
Mo(mJ, Aunt Kate and 
the Kids (the Hat( 
Hanoi last December for informa­tion on mJre than 800 missing Americans. · 
Paris is considered a prospective site for the talks. 
While the fate of the missing Americans would be the first item on the agenda, it is understood the talks could easily move beyond that to Hanoi's relations with Thailand and its other neighbors in South­east Asia. 
State Department spokesman Robert L. Funseth confirmed the overtures to Hanoi, saying: We arc prepared to meet with the Vietna­mese to discuss all of the Vietna­mese-related issues. That includes the missing in action." 
.. 

Kelly -looking forward to first season 
by Bob Brink and graduate intramurals, both indoor and outdoor," said Kelly. Kelly cited execution and ag­gressiveness as importantaspectsof 
It's been six years since Tom his approach to coaching. "Essen­Kelly served as an assistant base-tially, baseball is a game of ball coach to Jake Kline. Now he's execution," Kelly said. "Preparing back in the game, this time as head a team the best you can is what coach. and he's looking forward to coaching is all about. We try to his first year coaching. stress a combination of fundamen­
. 'I never felt too far removed tals and situations. Also, I think from coaching," said Kelly, "be-baseball has to be played some­cause I was connected with the what aggressively. You have to athletic department. But the return make things happen." to coaching has been a good Despite the team's 3-6 record experience. It's been a challenge, during the spring trip to Alabama, but it's really been enjoyable." Kelly was pleased with the team's 
Kelly took over the position of performance. "I guess you could head coach last spring when Kline say we got off to a slow start, but I retired. Kline, a member of the really thought it was a good trip. I college baseball Hall of Fame, led think we played well, and we got the Irish to 552 victories against better as the week went on." -136 defeats in his 42 year career. "I think our pitching looked very 
Befort· his appointment as head good," Kelly added. "They got in a coach. Kelly served as assistant good solid week, which I think you director of non-varsity sports. Des-need when you're facing competi­pite the added demand of coaching, tion such as ours.''
-Kelly continues to fulfill this posi-Kelly was equally pleased with tion. the team's batting. He pointed out "I am primarily involved in the that although in most of the games administration of men's, women's, they faced the opposing team's '::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::Fred Herbst 
The Irish Eye 
:=:=:=:=:=:::=:=:=:::::::::::::::=:=:::::::::::::=:::::::::=:::::::=:=:::::=:=:=:=:::=:=:::::::=:=:::::=:::::::::::NCAA 
Picks 
It's the long awaited bicentennial year and the city of Philadelphia is the focal point of the nation. Any event worth having will be held in Philadelphia this year, and the NCAA basketball tournament is no exception. 
While there haven't been any major upsets, which is an upset in itself, the tournament has been interesting and unique in its own way. When Michigan (24-6) tackles Rutgers (31-0) and Indiana (30-0) meets UCLA (26-4) tomorrow afternoon, it will mark the first time in the history of the national tournament that two undefeated clubs have advanced to the final four and the first time that two teams from the same conference have reached the national semi-finals. 
Only twice before have two undefeated teams entered the tournament in the same year. In 1971 Marquette and Penn fielded unbeaten squads only to be eliminated in regional play. St. Bonaventure and Houston entered the tournament with unblemished records in 1968, but St. Bonaventure was beaten in regional play while Houston was beaten by UCLA in the national semi-finals. 
Rutgers and Indiana are hoping to become the seventh team in history to go undefeated and win the national title. UCLA managed the feat four times and San Francisco and North Carolina each did it once. Nine teams have entered the tournament undefeated only to be beaten in tournament play, with Indiana being the most recent, doing it last season. 
So with only four of the 32 teams that entered the tournament remaining, here are The Irish Eye picks in tomorrow's semi-final games and for the national championship on Monday night. 
Michigan vs Rutgers: For those fans who enjoy "run and gun" basketball this is a dream game. With Ricky Green leading the attack, Michigan races up and down the court at breakneck speed. The only team in the nation that can match the Wolverines' overall speed is Rutgers. The tilt should be a match of speed, quickness and shooting that if nothing else should delight fans. 
Phil Sellers is the big name for Rutgers, but he's far from being the only player on the Scarlet Knight's club. Hollis Copeland, Jim Bailey, Abdel Anderson, Ed Jordan and underrated Mike Dabney are all excellent ball players. Rutgers has been criticized for playing a weak schedule and many feel that their undefeated record is a fluke, but as Coach Tom Young says, "People ask who we've beaten, and I tell them 'Everyone we've played baby, everyone.· How many other teams can say that?" 
Sellers hasn't had a good game (a good game for Phil Sellers) in the tournament yet, and he's due to explode. But the key to the tilt is the Green -Dabney matchup. Green 's a super player; he's quick, fast and can shoot with the best of them. But Dabney is a ball player to be reckoned with. Those who haven't seen Mike Dabney will go away impressed. Look for Dabney to take Green . and look for Rutgers to take Michigan by four. 
Indiana vs UCLA: A rematch of the game that opened the season in St. Louis in November. In that one the Hoosiers came out burning and destroyed the Bruins. Four months and 30 games later the two teams that started the season are ready to do battle in a game that many feel will determine the national championship. 
Gene Bartow's Bruins have a new look since their earlier loss to Indiana. Clumsy Ralph Drollinger has departed from the UCLA lineup and has been replaced by freshman David Greenwood. Since Greenwood has moved into the lineup, the Bruins have won 12 of their last 13. Another starter to enter the lineup since the loss to the Hoosiers is Ray Townsend, 
.. 
a quick little guard with a deadly shot. Richard Washington, MVP is last season's tournament, is back again and figures to be a dominant force. UCLA has improved vastly since the early part of the season and are just now reaching their peak. 
The officials will be keys in tomorrow's game. If the men in striped <>hirts let Benson act like the animal he is, Indiana will be tough to beat. But if Benson and his Hoosier teammates are forced to play basketball they could be in for a long afternoon. 
UCLA needs to win the remaining two games to avoid its worst record in I 0 years. The Bruins have won an amazing 47 of their last 48 NCAA tournament games, losing only a double overtime thriller to David Thompson two years ago. Look for the Bruins to make it 48 of 49 and Bobby Knight to kill Jimmy Wisman. UCLA by six. 
1976 NCAA Champion: UCLA has the tournament experience that so often tells in big games. The Bruins have won all 10 championship games that they've played in. Monday night they'll be 11 for 11. 
best pitcher, there were only 40 strikeouts in nine games. and that only seven of these were called strikeouts. 
"In both of those last games we were playing very good baseball, and if we maintain that I think we'll do very well the rest of the season," Kelly said. 
Considering their opposition and their grueling schedule, the Irish must play very well indeed. Start­ing with their home opener on April 4 against Northern Illinois, they must play 36 games in 31 days. They must face teams from the Big Ten and the Mid-American Confer­ence, which Kelly considers the best conferences in the area. They must also play some of the better independent schools in the area, such as the University of Detroit and the University of Cincinnati. 
Kelly feels that the long layoff 
between the spring trip and the 
season opener is a mixed blessing. 
"From one standpoint we're taking 
a chance with the weather," said 
Kelly, referring to South Bend's 
unpredicable weather. "But from 
the other side we get a chance to 
practice and sharpen up on our 
weaknesses." 
Whatever the future holds for 
the Irish ballplayers this season, 
Kelly is happy that he'll be a part of 
it. "I've been fortunate that I've 
got a good bunch of players to work 
with," said Kelly. "Everybody's 
really responded well this spring." 
"That's what coaching is a1l about,'' said Kelly, ''working with young people who want to work and to win." 
Lacrosse Club 
sweeps foes 

on Florida trip 
by Tom Bingle 

The warmth of the Florida sun 
proved beneficial to the Notre 
Dame Lacrosse Club, as the stick­
men handily defeated their oppon­
ent& on three occasions during their 
annual pilgrimage to the Sunshine 
State. 
In the opening game of the 
season, the Irish were pitted 
against their toughest competition 
of the southern swing, the Univer­
sity of Miami. The Hurricanes, the 
defending Southern Florida La­
crosse Conference Cham pions, 
brought an impressive record of 9-1 
into the contest and were aiming to 
pin a loss on the Irish. 
But the Irish would have nothing 

to do with the Hurricane hopes, as 
the stickmen scored a convincing 
11-7 victory. Pacing the Irish 
offensively was Club President Bob 
Thibodeau, who pumped in 5 goals. 
In a supporting role, co-captain 
Don Trabert and attackmen Pat 
Clynes added 2 goals each, while 
Jay Williams and Tim Walsh 
garned single tallies. 
Propelled by this boosting tri­

umph, the Irish went on to defeat 
Florida International University the 
following day, 11-6. Clynes and 
Trabert took over the scoring reins 
as they scored 4 and 3 goals 
respectively. Thibodeau main­
tained his scoring rampage with 2 
markers, while midfielders Mike 
Kinsella and Thad Naquin, on 
blistering shots, collected single 
goals. 
In the final game, the stickmen 

had to rally in the second half in 
order to overcome a stubborn St. 
Michael's of Vermont team, S-2. 
Balancing scoring was the Irish's 
forte in this game, as five different 
players netted goals. Those break­
ing into the scoring colummn for 
the first time included Mark Flan­
agan, J.P. Marchand and Jim Rice, 
while Jay Williams and Pat Clynes 
supplemented their earlier totals. 
The victories could not have been 
realized without the expertise 
play of the defense. Co-captain John Fatti, Mark Carberry, Chris Bowe, John Mandico, and goalie Steve Martinez all performed well for the "forgotten heroes," as they · held the opponents to a mere five 
goals per game. 

Coach Tom Kelly preparing his team for the grueling.sche~ule 
that lies ahead (Photo by Chns Sm1th). 
Bill Brink Who's No. 1? 
:=:::::::==================================:::=:::::=======:::=:::::::=:::::=:::::=:======:======:::::::=:::::=:=::;::============:::: Indiana 
Indiana is like God-they're everywhere. 
I've seen the Hoosiers three times in person; against the Irish in a 
thriller, and against St. John's r.vice; once in a thriller before the largest 
crowd ever to witness r. college basketball game in Madison Square 
Garden, and in the opening round of the Mideast Regional here at Notre 
Dame, which the Hoosiers won in a rout. I've seen them on TV four times, 
all close games; one against UCLA an easy eai-Iy-season win, two against 
Purdue, both close wins, and a nip-and-tuck overtime victory over 
Kentucky. I've heard them on the radio, I've heard the results of their 
games broadcast over the loudspeaker at other games. I've even read 
"The Hoosiers are Number One" written on the wall of the men's room 
in the South Bend bus station. 
The men's room may be a fitting place for anything from Indiana, but it 
also shows just how widespread the Hoosier fame is. And many 
reluctantly admit now that Bobby Knight's crew has more than earned it's 
number one status. They've beaten everyone you could ask them too, and 
now people are asking them to beat teams again, UCLA and maybe 
Michigan, for example. 

Before the Mideast Regional the Hoosiers had barely earned their 
build-up. 'J.'hey had made a habit of escaping from a series of extremely 
close calls. Losing coaches came away muttering "they're human, they're 
not invincible, they can be beaten." Meanwile, they received the most 
press East of Patty Hearst. During the New York Christmas Tournament 
Indiana made headlines in all the area newspapers each day. They were 
made out to be indestructible gladiators. "Whoever scheduled us against 
Indiana,'' said Columbia coach Tom Penders, whose team had to meet the 
Hoosiers in the opener of that tournament, "must be the same guys that 
scheduled Custer against the Indians." As another coach said, "if 
someone beats them there should be an investigation." 
If someone does, maybe there will be. But don't count on someone 
beating them. I was one of the ones waiting for someone to come out on 
top in one of those Hoosier thrillers, but nobody did it. And that despite 
some unforgettable opportunities, such as when Kent Benson saved IU 
with no time on the clock against Michigan. They do it every time, and 
there's no reason to think they'll stop now. There isn't a team as tough in 
the clutch as Indiana is. 

After thirty games I'm ready to believe that if the Hoosiers are in the 
game in the waning moments, they'll win it. Mostly because of Scott May 
who though he isn't the individual athlete that Adrian Dantley is, is 
certainly more valuable to his team than any player in the tournament so 
far. But the impressive thing about Indiana is that they'll beat you with 
May on the bench, or with Benson on the bench. They beat you with 
defense, and they beat you physically. They beat Marquette with all of 
these. 

The guy who pulls all the switches is Knight, as good at coaching as the 
Hoosiers are at playing. He had AI McGuire outcoached at the opening 
tip-off, and he has the edge in Philly: 
I hate to give credit to anything from Indiana, but they have the best 
team and they deserve it. When you look at their schedule-St. John's, 
Alabama, Marquette, UCLA, and then Michigan or Rutgers-you say "no 
way." But take each game one by one and the Hoosiers are the favorite in 
each one. They'll beat UCLA in a much closer game than their last 
meeting (but then, IU excels in close games), and then they'll beat 
Michigan in an all Big Ten final. The worst part about it is having to listen 
to the natives boast of their team, but then, what else does the state have. 
***** 

_The Irish, meanwhile, must wait patiently again. One has to feel for D1gger Phelps, who must be wondering just what he has to do to, how good a team he has to have, to reach the final four. In his del'ense, he made no outstanding errors in Louisville. You can't fault strategy when turnovers and errors prevent us from ever seeing that strategy. 
A lot depends on the big forward, Adrian Dantley. Because if Dantley came back, and Bill Laimbeer was back in the lineup, and ND picked up a couple good freshman, where would you rate the Irish. There's always 
hope. But for now everyone has to sit back and watch the best, which the final four in Philly may or may not be. Only the Hoosiers are sure. 




