~--------------------· 
SLC initiates four committees to provide new input in University 
by Karen Hinks Staff Reporter 
The Student Life Council (SLC) recently initiated four standing committees to serve as a base for ad hoc committees, a vehicle for non-council input in the University, explained SLC Chairman Mike Casey. 
The four standing committees include: Campus Life, Planning and Policy, Rules and Regulations, and Off-campus. 
''The general feeling of the council ast year was that we were getting too hung-up with one specific issue," Casey stated. "We were unable to accomplish as many things as we wanted because we spent too much time discussing when we could have been taking action." 
Casey explained that with the addition of the standing commit­tees, more actioon can be taken and as a result, more things will get done. 
The committees are made up of one student, one faculty member, and one administrator from SLC. The remaining members are cross­sections of students from thP 
campus Life Committee 
Campus Life Committee 
Peter Haley, chairman of the Campus Liff Committee described the committee as being concerned with six major areas of interest to student life. 
··An ad hoc committee concern­ing club sports has been organized to seek alternative ways of fund­ing, Haley said. "It is not presently clear whether club sports can receive aid from the University. Under consideration is the possibil­ity that for every dollar indepen­dently raised by the club, the university will match the total." 
Social Spa..:e is viewed as an 
important and effective ad hoc 
committee by SLC. Haley stated 
that the main function of the 
committee is to name and define 
the need for a relaxed situation 
where students and faculty can 
meet. 
"After the purpose has been 
clearly defined, each building will 
be surveyed to decide whether an 
academic room can be established 
where machines can be installed 
and where students and faculty can 
sit naturally between classes," 
Haley said. "The rennovation of 
LaFortune is the result of such a 
committee." 
The Social Space Committee is 
also looking for alternative for 
organized social events in the north 
dining hall and the pay cafeteria. 
"We'd like to see the pay cafeteria as an alternative to the Huddle," commented Haley. "The pay cafe could be used as an area for students to get together to talk and study.'' The Memorial Library has also been under consideration. "Many students have complained that the second floor space has become a gathering place," Haley stated. "The prablem arises when the noise level becomes such that students studying are disrupted." 
The committee is presently seek­ing other areas of the library that can be used as a lounge area. 
Another Campus Life ad hoc committee is Hall Fellows. Haley explained that the committee is a carry over from last year and is designed so that faculty member is assigned to a dorm. The faculty member is invited to social hours, talks, and gatherings. The purpose is to encourage students and faculty to meet on a personal level artd develop better interpersonal relationships. 
The Freedom of Speech ad hoc committee was described by Haley as naving an ambiguous name. ''Baiscially, we are concerned with the underlying hostilities that exist between the students and the administration," he said. "It is a problem that is not clearly defined. We mainly investigate the reasons why students feel this way. We just want to define the problem and then find ways to relieve them." 
The final ad hoc committee is the t:ommittee to delineate responsibil­ities and jurisdiction between stu­dent organizations. 
Haley defined the function of the committee as clearly spelling out the purposes of the Hall Presidents Council, Student Union, Student Government and SLC. 
''There has been a substantial amount of overlapping of responsi­bilities between organizations," he said. "Once the definitions are clear, students will be able to send suggestions throught the proper channels and better implement them." 
Policy and Planning Committee 
Ed Van Tassel, SLC co-chairman 
and chairman of the Policy and 
Planning Committee, emphasized 
to students that the committee wil 
be getting underway after Thanks­
giving break. Important projects of 
the committee are co-ed housing, 
academic honesty, and over­
l"rowding in the Business College. 
"We are also working on the usefullness of grade inflation, mas­sive testing, and the possibility of lay-rectors in the dorms," Van Tassel stated. "We want to inves­tigate the possibility of an alterna­tive to co-ed living such as Notre 


Dean Roemer supports actions of campus security last Saturday evening. tphoto by Debbie Krilich] Dame and Campus View Apart­ments. 


Van Tassel and the committee hope to investigate the possibilities by sending questionnaires to stu­dents. 
Rules and Regulations Committee 
The Rules and Regulations Com­
........ .....__)r_.';·,~mittee is chaired by Sally Duffy, rectoress of Lewis Hall. 
~-­

"Our committee basically con­
For story on student ID's 

cerns itself with what our name implies," Duffy said. "Any rule or 
. See page 2 

regulation that is cited as needing 
consideration for change is .chan­Off-campus Committee, stated that neled through our committee for the committee was more of a consideration, presented to SLC, reflective body. the sent to Fr. Hesburgh for his ' ''The Off-campus Commission approval." and Off-campus Housing of the 
administration take care of the Off-Campus Committee majority of the off-campus student needs. We would like to see more John Steinman, chairman of the information given to the off-cam­

pus student. This can be facilitat~ by placing bulletin boards in stra­tegic locations on campus," he explained. '·Most of this is being done presently." 
"Off-campus Housing takes care of legal-aid to students. landlord relationships and findin11 housin~. 
(l-onlinued on pagt> 81 

The 


0 
server 
an independent student newspaper sen1ing notre dame and st. mary's Vol. XI, No. 46 Thursday, November 11, 1976 
Roemer says Campus Security acted adequately last Saturday 
by Gregg B. B1111gs Executive Editor 

Pertaining to the Saturday night riot, Dean of Students James A. Roemer would follow the same procedure exercised by Notre Dame Security, given the informa­tion he knows. 
"Basically, we would do the same thing we did Saturday night. If there was any situation where we could have worked faster, we would improve on it. But I have no facts that state the judgements or deci­sions were taken care of in the wrong manner,'' Roemer stated in an interview held yesterday. 
Roemer said one of the few complaints he's heard regarding the activities of Security that night was that one Security officer did not leave the gatehouse to help control the crowds. "Art Pears (Director of Notre Dame Security) has told me that guard did the correct thing in staying at his post. If he had left, he would have been in deep trouble with Pears," Roemer said. 
"That guard has a large role to play in the gatehouse. He is a vital part in the communicatiouns sys­tem of security, just as the person at the main switchboard is. If he leaves, he is deserting an impor­tant post," he continued. 
Outlines Security Procedure 

Several students voiced com­
plaints that Security would not 
handle their calls regarding being 
attacked until Monday morning. 
Although none of these students 
were seriously injured, they felt 
their reports should have been 
taken immediately. , 
"It's not like I was complaining 
about a parking ticket or some­
thing," one source, who wished to 
remain anonymous, said. "I had 
just finished being attacked by a 
gang and they said to 'call back on 
Sunday.' Then, when I called 
Sunday, they tell me to call back 
Monday. I didn't believe they 
would handle a matter as serious as 
a riot like this," the source continued. 
Roemer thought that "when you run into a riot situation, you have to establish a sense of priorities. First, you should go to the scene of the crime, or riot in this case, and break it up." 
"Second, if anybody is hurt, Security should transport them to health facilities. Third, they should try to initiate, as soon as possible, a written report on the things that took place--particularly on the events (and people) that required medical attention," he said. 
"People calling about being assaulted but not injured is a lesser priority, period," he stated. "The people of Security had twenty pages of single-spaced security reports when I got there. I would imagine they had one heck of a time getting it down. In the case of a person who was assaulted and not injured, their judgement was to wait till the normal staff was in on Monday." 
Security Works In Three Shifts 
Roemer explained that Notre Dame Security works in three shifts. The daytime shift, as well as special events such as football games, is looked over by Arthur Pears, director of security. There is an evening shift, covered from 3 
p.m. to II p.m.) and a morning shift. that is covered from II p.m. to 7 a.m. Each shift has a person in charge who is responsible for making decisions about, among other things. calling in outside sources in the case of fire or the need for police support. 
"For security reasons," Roemer did not disclose how many people work on the security shifts. He would also not relate if any members of the department carried firearms. He did say that "our security carry walkie-talkies and are in constant contact with the main switchboard and the gates." 
Deputy Sheriffs at Wortune . 
Roemer related there were two off-duty St. Joseph County Deputy Sheriffs working at the Black Cultural Arts Center's dance. "If somebody desires to have security at their dances. they can call Arthur Pears and heeither will get off-duty St. Joseph County Deputy Sheriffs or South Bend Police Officers," Roemer said. Roemer stated that both of these types of officers are required to wear fire­arms 24 hours, seven days a week and should function "as if they were on duty.'' 
In lieu of the S8S damage that resulted at the first dance spon­sored by the Black Cultural Arts Center. it was suggested that security guards be hired. 
When trouble broke out at the dance Saturday night, these two deputy sheriffs called security. although they had the option of calling the County Sheriffs office. "At the time, there were no assaults in LaFortune or personal injury, so they called security." Roemer explained. 
He said the reason why everv­body centered around L~Fortu~c was because that was where the initial disturbance started. "Per­haps security should have known the crowd would float south. buth they also went in other directions." 
When the crowd did float south, outside help was called in the form of seven St. Joe Sheriff cars and two Sout~ Bend Police squad cars. 
Although there is no official estimate for the amount of damage done to LaFortune Student Center. Roemer's perosnal estimate runs around SSOO. The Black Cultural Arts Center will pay for that damage. However, they will not pay for the windows broken at the Engineering Building. 
''They hold the responsibility to pay for LaFortune, but not for the Engineering Building because don't think it would be fair to hold them responsible for the damage they caused to other buildings after they left the sole one the sponsor­ing group was responsible for. 

Thursday, November 11, 1976
the observer 

,..---News Briefs--­
t-r-----------==Iritemational Syrians occupy Beirut 
BEIRUT, Leb~on AP • Syrian tanks and troops descended on cmbattl~d Be1~ut from three directrions Wednesday in a swift 01.:cupat10n des1gned to extinguish the 19-mollth civil war. 
Morocco invites Jews 
RABAT, Morocco AP -T'•e Moroccan government -acting alone in tht· entire Arab world -has embarked on a campaign to persuade some 230.000 Moroccan-born Jc\\ .s to return from Israel. France, the United States and other countries to share in the future prosperity of their "real homeland." 
----=::::::=====National 
r·land grenade siren 
CHICAGO, AP · Two Chicago men. Bo Jaremus. 53, and Manuel Goodman. 81. think their hand grenade will be the fashion hornh~hcll of the season. When a woman pulls the pin, it sets off a shrill. piercing wail. It's a defense against muggers and strong-arm men. the inventors said Tuesday. 

---On Campus TodaY'---­
3: ~o -.-lm · take home exam, "our knowledge of our psycholog­
ical states," by prof. c.f. delaney, 336 o'shaugh­nessy 
10 am-exhibition and sale, original oriental art from marson 4 pm ltd. of baltimore, with representative present to answer questions, art gallery 
1:15pm· demonstration, "visiting artist in photography," dye transfer printing by charles swedlund, graphics room 
110 p m -computer course, "command procedure (clist) programming in mvs" (for experienced tso users only), room 115, computer center/math bldg 
4 pn · seminar, "time-resolved esr studies of radicals produced by pulse radiolysis," by r.w. fessenden, n.d., sponsored by radiation lab, radiation research building 
4:30pm -colloquium, "deformation of sheaves" by prof. gunther trautmann, univ. of kaiserlautern, germany, sponsored by math dept., room 226, computer center/math bldg 
7 pm -workshop, assertion training workshop, first meet­inf of a four-session workshop, sponsored by counseling center, (283-1717), room 400, adminisb·a· tion bldg 
7· 30 pm -exhibition, "visiting artist in photography" show opening and slide presentation, by charles swed­lund, isis gallery 
7 .40 pm _ musical performance, prof. linda ferguson and her husband, sponsored by general program, for general programs students only, library lounge 
7:30pm-meeting, "fall nostalgia," members of n.d. glee club will be performing, sponsored by ladies of notre dame, o'shaughnessy hall 
7:30 & film, "only angels have wings," sponsore by smc 10 prn -social commission, carroll hall, smc 
8 pm · lecture, "the right to privacy in a technological society" by edward m. goldberg, calif. state univ., sponsored by center for civil rights, room 101, _law bldg 
8 pm-film and faculty panel discussion, "last grav~ at dimbaza," sponsored by program in african studies and black studies, audio visual aud 
8 pm _ concert, ulian bram, guitarist and lutenist, spon­sored by performing arts series, o'laughlin aud 
. --·.'.ft', ,·:· \'.-, \''t''4.">1~'-1'tt, 1'1~'., 1 1,~,. .\J1 ~11 11 ;"'·/ • 1 1 111'/ 1~1·/'1 .\' (.ll-t/ 1'./.1'1 ,·.,· •, 
Registar sees no relief 




ID cards still bogged c!own 
by Mike Towle Staff Reporter 

The Registrar's Office announced two weeks ago that new student identification cards would be ready for distribution this week. Yet, the cards have not arrived and David Kif, assi-stant registrar, hesitates to guess an arrival date. 
"The new ID cards have been sent off from the printing company, but they haven't arrived as of yet, " Kit stated. "We were informed that it would take ten days to process the cards before they could be sent back. I can't fix a date for their arrival." 
Among the different problems that have arisen are the chemical destruction of photos and the breakdown of cameras during the re-taking of these photos. 
"We didn't anticipate all of these things happening at once, but they have happened. Between the Registrar's Office and the printing company, there are many chances for error," Kit explained. 
The Assistant Regestrar added that he'd rather have the company take its time in processing the ID's 
(*The Observerl 
Night Martyr: Paul Schappler Asst. Night Martyr: Giacomo D'Aurora 
layout Staff: Barry Tillis, roseanne Wallace, Drew Bauer Editorial Martyr: Drew Bauer Pat Hanifin Sports Martyr: Paul Steven­son. Greg "Journal" Solman Early Morning Martyr: Morey Blinder Day Editor: Marv Mungovan 
Copy Martyrs: Barbara Lang­henry, G.B. Hangs Photography: Debbie Kriltch (b•' sure to come to the pt~rty!) A tfe score from the Senior Ear Pinball Machines: Herbst: 8,350 
lBiinder: 150,630 

r '"" ( lh,t•nt•r" puhl"ht•d ,'1.\t -nda\ lhr-tllJgh f rt<ld\ .111d "'Pt·~h dunrig th• 'unHnt>r "''·-ton P~ct•pt dunng tht> t·xam and vat .:!ton !Jf•nod' 1he ()b.,pr \ er ,., publr.,hed b\ .,!ud•·nh of thP L!n 1\'N'>IIV ot r>.otrP IJamP and St M.trv ' [nllegP Subsnrptrons nld\' lw purchd'>t>d for SlO J>t'r YPM I$1P rwr ~<>mP'>IPr) trom lht' ()IJ,t>r­vt•r. Bm Q. "lotrt-DamP. lndtana 
,,,-,C,t. St><.ond cia.,., po'>tagP pard. 
~otre Dame. lndran.t 4b~~h Tht> Observer rs a member ot the \'>SOndtPd PrPS'> .... 'I rpproductron rrght' Mf' n --·n.-d 
to awid error instead of doing it J he Keg1strar s Office d1d sw1tch quickly and making mistakes. This printing companies this yearfor the would add reason to the late arrival eicpanded capabilities of the new of the new cards. Kil continued by company. Kif noted that one major saying that should a card come advantag~ ofthe new ID style is the back with errors on it, it would only computenzed tape on the back mean additional waiting time. which 'allows for more information When asked to comment on wheth-to be coded. Should the University er his office planned to exert ever de~ide t? install the proper pressures on the company which is electrontc equ1pment around cam­located in Boston, Kil stated that it pus, the new ID could be used as a would not be feasible at this time. detex card. 
In addition, the new style of ID 

"I can't put the blame on the card was considered in part to company at this time," Kil assert­discourage those students under 21 ed. "We are only now in the years of age from changing their 
process of compiling information. birth dates to comply with the 
Once we gather it, we will act on it minimum drinking age. Kif stated. 
appropriately." 


Vest II ... Oacron/Cotton in blue or tan. (ripstop nylon Inner) 
Snaps and down filled flap 
Cargo pockets with snapped closure 

To get one on -drop In ... 

CAMP7 


Bus Trip to the Eagles Concert ___ Bus Trip & Ticket--$16 
All interested including those who signed up must purch~se their tickets at the S.U. Ticket Office by 4pm TODAY. 
Remaining tickets will be sold at the main circle 

Busses leave the main circ~e at 5:30 
... t • -•.•• I.. 

~--­

Emil T. Hofman tells Fisher audience that the traditio;1al pre-med cut throat does not exist at N.D. [photo by Debbie Krilich~ 
Will not affect NO 
by Bob Barettonl making good grades," said Hof­
Staff Reporter man, "and maybe these things do go on someplace. But I do not think it 12oes on here." 
Cheating on the Notre Dame 
The discussion on "Academic 
campus is not as widespread as 
Integrity" marked the formal pre­
most people think, according to 
sentation of the St. Thomas More
Emil T. Hofman, dean of the 
Award to Hofman. Fisher students 
Freshman Year of Studies. 
voted the honor to Hofman last
In an informal discussion in the 
spring. The annual award goes to
basement of Fisher Hall, Hofman 
the person they feel provides the
said the percentage of ND studentr 
most leadership to the ND com­
who would cheat on tests under 
munity.

ordinary circumstances· is very 
Hofman opened with remarks
low. 
about the nature of undergraduate
· .. we hear about the cut-throat 
education in general. He told the 20
competition in which st.1dents at­
Fisher students that the traditional
tempt to keep other students from 
image of the pre-med cut-throat is nm true. "Frequently," said Hofman, "there might be a little jealousy on 

Sorin pep rally





Ethnic quotas ruled illegal 
on their PSAT /NMSQT tests and
bv Drew J. Bauer ·staff Reporter 

excellent high school records. This is later followed up by personal 
A recent decision by the Califo: letters and :applicants ; and visits nia Supreme Court to strike down f;om the Alumnt Schooi Committee special minority admissions pro­in the student's area. grams at the University of Califor­
The Offi~e of Admissions also

nia will not affect Notre Dame's pays for several visits to therecruitment of minority students, ""mom: by potential candidatesaccording to Director of Admis "'.h_~ could not otherwise afford tosions John T. Goldrick. 
visit. These funds come from either"We do not admit people by ~he Provost Office the the Dowrace," Goldrick said, "but we do Chemical Comoanv.
have a program to search out talented ethnic students that might "These min-ority students that want to apply here." we do accept have to meet hte same 
This program includes sending qualifications as any other student. letters to approximately 2000 mi­I do not believe that letting people nority seniors who had high scores in just because thev are a minority 
ND insurance salesman explains different policies 
bv Chris Smith Asst.-Managing Editor 

An article appearring in The 
Observer last Tuesday warned that 
"hungry insurance salesmen" are 
scouring campuses all over the 
country. 
Tim Rippingcr, a Notre Dame student who sells insurance for State Mutual Life Assurance Com­pany of America, commented that the article was too general. "There are companies and salesmen who specialize in the college market," he said, "but that doesn't mean that they're bad." 
A Consumer Reports article quoted in Tuesday's Observer arti­cle warned against ~ying deferred payment insurance. Rippinger agreed, explaining that this plan delays payments until the policy­holding student graduates, then hits him with steep payments plus interest on the deferred money. 
"I agree that students do not need a great amount of insurance." added R1ppinger. "However, a small policy is a good idea, if it includes guaranteed insurability." 
Guaranteed insurability, he explained, enables a student to buy a small insurance policy at this time, and convert it to a larger policy later on. "Buying insurance while still in college," Rippinger continued, "entitles the buyer to the low rates given this healthy. low risk age group." 
Accordmg to Rippinger, guaran­teed insurability enables a policy­holder to increase his life insurance at any time, even should his health fail. Without this type of policy, he warns, a company would have the right to refuse additional insurance to someone who became a bad risk, even if he alreadv owned a oolicv. 
"In a good policy," added Rippinger, "the. guaranteed insur­ability option can be exercised by the holder at any time during the lif of the policy." 
Rippinger also explained ·the difference betweeq term insurance and life insurance. "Term insur­ance has a limited policy life and is cheaper," he commented. With this type of insurance. the buyer 
gets back nont: of the money he nas paid in premiums. Life insurance, however, always returns money to the holder, but is more expensive. 
"If you are approached by an agent," warned Rippinger, "always ch-:!ck out his company with the state insurance commis­sion, the Better Business Bureau. or a magazine similar to Consumer Reports." 
Child beaten to death 
YAKIMA, Wash. AP A three 
year old boy died because he was 
beaten about twice a day for four 

months by members of a religious 
cult trying to beat the devil out him 
him in a crude form, of exorcism, 
the jury was told Wednesday. 
Yakima County Prosecuting Atty. 

Jeffrey Sullican said that each time 
the boy was asked, "Do you have 
love in your heart?" Sullivan said 
the boy was beaten no matter how 
he responded. 
"They figured it was the devil 

talking," Sullivan told the jury in 
opening arguments at the trial of 
five persons cahrged with assault 
and manslaughter in the boy's 
death. 
Charged in the death of David 

Weilbacher are Ed war Leon Cun­
ningham,Sl, a self-proclaimed pas­
tor and "prophetofGod"; his wife, 
Velma, 45; her daughter, Carolyn, 
27; Lorraine Edwards, 20; and 
Debra Marie Weilbacher, 20, Da­
vid's mother. 
The boy's mummified body was 

found Sept. 19 wrapped in a sheet 
on a cot in the sealed back bedroom 
of his mother's home just outside 
the Yakima city limits. The coroner 
said he had died of a series of 
beatings two months earlier. 
Carolyn's mother is the only 

defendent r;ep,resented by an attor­
ney~·the others. chosittg to put their 
faith'in ·God.' .1,:, .• · ·.'.' • ; ,·• ·.:· ,-_.·.' 
Thursday, November 11. 1976 ___:t~h.:..e=---o-=--=b:...:s:::...e:=..:..rv~e:....:r~--_;:;_3 

Hofman reports 
Cheating is not widesprea~ 

ton.IQht
is good if they do no! have the 
slated for

records. This does not help anyone. It sets the group apart at the Sorln Hall will bold an Alabama ··People who cheat on tests no"beginnings by geing unequal." 
pep rally tonight at 11 p.m. on the will not. sometime later in life. beuOIOnck stated. 
front porch of the ball. The special able to filp a switch and automat­The California Court's actions guest speaker will be Officer 11m ically become de~ent and honor­came from a suit by Allan Bakke, 
McCarthy of tbe Indiana State able.'
who claimed that he wa~ denied 
PoUce. Other speakers will Include 
admission by the Universitv of The Fisher Hall Academic Com­
Head Basketball C.O.Cb Digger
California Medical School in -1973 mission sponsored the discussion.
Phelps, Linebacker C.O.Cb Georae 
and 1974 because he was white. Terence Joiner. the hall a~ademic
KeUy, defensive back Ted Dura­
The court also ordered that Bakke commissioner, prc~ented Hofman
meier and placekicker Dave Reeve. be admitted to the school. with his award.
The cheerleaders will al110 be The decision sets the stage for a present.showdown in the U.S Supreme Court over the issue of so-called reverse discrimination. Goldrick said that he does not believe in quotas tor mino(ity students. "I do not think that we should have a quota, although we 
Your Source for the Unusual ir. 
should try harder to get quality 
Diamonds and Precious Gems 
minority students. Ethnic students 
Platinum and Gold Jewelry
provide a tremendous diversity that 
is lacking at Notre Dame." You'll find untold treasures of the For the 1976-77 freshman class, 
finest quality brOl,JQht to you by the eye of 
a total of 371 minority candidates applied for admission, I79 were an expert. • accepted and 94 tin:tlly enrolled. 
And sold with the care of a professional • 
Of this total, J4 are black Americans, a drop of 19 from the 
Insurance appraisals and purchases of fine dtamorrds 
vcar before. The 34 blacks includ•·d 
and estate jewelry provided. 
eleven who are ,)n athietic grants 
"Graduate Gemotog•st
in-aids and 12 who arc Notre Dame 
Gemolog•cal lnst•tute of Amenca 
;Scholars. 
"Fellow Gemmologrst The drop was attributed to the Gemmolog•cal Assoc•at1on of Great Br•ta.n • 8 A lnd1ana Un•vers•IY
great demands for quality blacks among the nation's universities 
Lobby
and that most of the blacks that did 
St. Joseph Bank Building
not come to Notre Dame went to a 
South Bend. lndtana
better school, according to the 
• Telephone: 287-1427
"1976 Ethnic Minority Enrollment Report." John M. Marshall's 
The report also said that other universities provided a great{·t amount of need-in-aid to the st•J­dents than Notre Dame, which only has a $3 million endowment fund for this purpose. 
1 
1 
] 
the part ot some of the students who do not have long range goals yet. When they say pre-med stu­dents would do anything for a grade, I have to ask where these students are. I don't see them here." 
Hofman said he did not think a ~method like televised surveillance during exams would stop students from cheating. He said students would be challenged by this to more novel ways of cheating. 
The mutual respect between teacher and student i:, the be~t deterrent, according to Hofman. He added that it isn't only the students who cheat. 
"The fact:lty member who is not competent in his field is ~heating everybody," s•...d Hofman. He added that universities usually do not do enough to maintain. the .level of competence. 
Hofman answered questions fnr almost half of hi!> hour long talk. About cheating in general, he said. 



-~----------~ ------­
• '•:l During October br~ak
'• • 



Faculity business seminar held
Armory party starts 
by Jack Pizzolato Staff Reporter


Alabama weekend 
"The Night the Tide Died," is the theme of this year's second armory party. The pre-victory celebration, spon­sored by the Notre Dame Social Commission, will be Friday, Nov. 12. 
of certain future goals and objec­tives," stated Bro. Leo Ryan, dean· of the College of Business Admini­stration. 
The seminar, held at the Geneva Center in Rochester, Ind., ran from Sunday Oct. 17 to Tuesday Oct. 19 and· was attended by most of the Business Administration faculty, several students of the college and members of its Advisory Council. 
Ziegler used a "futures-inven­tion" approach, bil!ed as a "a new process for long-term, comprehen­sive, participatory planning." Indi­viduals were asked to project themselves 25 years into the future and to imagine the world ang the role that Notre Dame and the College of Business Administration will play in the year 2000. 
Small groups were formed to discuss and clarify the various 
The party will feature beer an·l pretzels, with music by Awakening, a popular Chicago 
_based group. The dance will start at <J p.m. and last until I 
a.m. 
Buses will leave St. Mary's Holy Cross and Notre Dame circle starting 8:30p.m. and running continuously. according to armory orga~­

C. 
• 



are expected to submit a report and 
• analysis of the results around Thanksgiving. and to organize further discussions to refine and
Hornung to speak tonight 
establish a set of realistic alterna­
by Ginger McGowan Staff Reporter 

Heismann Trophy winner Paul Hornung will speak tonight at 8:30 
p.m. in Cavanaugh Hall's study lounge. according to Cavanaugh president George Velcich. 
Hornung will accept the 1976-77 Cavanaugh Hall Fellow award fol­lowing film highlights of the 1956 football seasor.. The former quart­erback will then address the stu­dents. 
Hornung wore the "famous number 5 jersey" during his foot­ball career from 1953-57. Nicknam­ed "The Golden Boy", he received All-American status and the Heis­mann Trophy in 1956. 
Hornung was drafted by the Green Bay Packers in 1958, and remained with them until 1967. He is currently a free-lance sportscast­er working for C.D. Chesley Co. and CBS. 
"We haven't had a hall fellow in ·a few years now," commented Velcich. He noted that Hornung was "overwhelmingly chosen" by 
********** 
iC BOILER HOUSE FLIX .. 
: 100 Center Mishawaka ~ iC special • iC MIDNITESPECIAL ie iC 12 a.m. fri. nov. 12 'iC .. MEL BROOKS .. 
• in .. 
.. ""SILENT MOVIE'' iC 
.. .
iC iC
all seats $2.00 

100 CENTER ie ~ MIDNITE MADNESS ~ 
..iC ********• 
• friday nlte ~ 
iC all shops open 9 p.m._-12. a.~ 
1 iC apeclal sales , , -fC 
! I •-•*******~ 
'· , ~•. ' • , ' t , ( ·~ . t I ', t • 't I f 

. ' 


outside the business field m service "but we spent too much time organizations and public admini tooling up and going through the stration. motions. We easily grasped the Ryan has defended the experi­idea, and I think we became a little 
ment as something different and impatient with Mr. Ziegler's meth­out of the ordinary. ''The seminar odology." accomplished a lot more than its Jones, however, was enthusi­original purpose," Ryan said. astic abouth the outcome, calling
"the faculty finally got together, the futuristic approach both 
crea­and we found out more about -tive and daring. "It was a great
where people stood than we could opportunity to get to know have through any other method." people," she pointed out, "and I Management Professors John think we found some direction." 
Hollenback and Ronald Beaulieu a 
Another student who attended drawing up a formal evaluation of was junior business major Ken the seminar. "There were a lot of 
Ricci. "There was a cohesiveness differing opinions as to its effec­
and a sense of community there," tiveness," said Beaulieu. "Bob he remarked. "It a relaxed
was Vecchio's survey (Professor uf atmosphere in which we could all get together; students, deans, pro­
Management) revealed a wide fessors, young and old, really. share range of viewpoints at the tiem." 
ideas."

"There were a variety of degrees Ricci, also felt that towards theof satsifaction," assured Ryan. 
end of the seminar many of the''Some accepted it with enthusi­participants became upset aboutasm. otheres resisted; it was to be the workload. "We put in aboutexpected. You can't put 65 experts 

together and expect them to be 
sixteen hours on Monday, and unanimous. It's healthy to have a 
people were tired and taxed." pluralism of viewpoints," he con­Ricci noted too, that Ziegler tinued, "You need a. diversity of created some tesnion. "He kept ideas." throwing out a lot of controversial things; I sure hope it was only his
"It was a good way of getting ..t technique. And his assistant, she_faculty thinking," commented In­was just aggravating.''
formation Services Director Rich­"This was de~oigned as a prelim­ard Conklin, who attended the last inary," pointed out Ryan, "open­day of the seminar. "It seemed ing up a whole 1:mge of dimensions better to have an outside, detached which we will still be working on.
source. " But we've done something definite"I thought we could have had a and from the people I've talkedbetter idea of what to expect," said with, I would make an upbeat

srnior business major Cindy assessment."
Buescher, one of the four students •'The business school had gotten to attend the seminar. ''I'm glad I stale," concluded Ricci. '.'At lea.>t
went. It· was beneficial to get to one tribute to Bro. Ryan is that heknow the professors and to interact wants new ideas."
with them, but it sort of dragged .towards the end and might have 
p--------1

been a bit shorter." Buescher also 
I • 

sugge!>ted that Ziegler himself may N D Students I not have been prepared to handle a ~ I group of this type. BRING THIS COUPON TO "He didn't read the .. kind of IBELLE PLAZA. PARTY 
I 

gro~p he had very well, aw~ed STORE FOR CASE DIS-· Asststa~t Provost, Sr. John Mmam COUNTS ON COLD BEER Jones. We could have done some 
I I 

of the individual speculation be-& WIN E. forehand and gotten much farther. 13rd STOPLIGHT NORTH I The idea of divesting yourself of 'tOF STATELINE ON U.S. 
1

problems and jsut trying to develop 1 · I a plan is a good one," she said, -------­
izers, Mike Orlando and John Martell, "Everyone must take the buses to and from the dance for insurance reasons." 
Tickets, which will include the dance and transportation, are $3 and go on sale tonight 

Warren Ziegler, director of the Syracuse Research Corporation, conducted a three day business seminar over October break. "Our purpose was to break away from what the faculty was familiar with, and to •answer' the question of where do we go as a college in light 
and tomorrow night in the following occuassions: North and South Dining Halls. St. Mary's Cafeteria and the Notre Dame Student Union. 
Orlando and Martell stres­stcd that the event is a "chance to relax and meet people, not a beer throwing contest.'' 
•

=; 
ideas, and these units were gath­ered into larger policy teams which attempted to work out possible collective agreements about goals, strategies and actions. 
Each of those teams presented a "scenario" of the future at the closing session which was reviewed and critiqued. 
Ziegler and his Syracuse group 
hall vote for the award over Officer Tim McCarthy. Ara Parseghian. Tom Pagna, and Fr. Robert Griffin. Hornung was a Cavanaugh resi­dent for one year. 
"This award is a method of recognition," Velcich explained. "It's a good way for us to recognize tives for the Business School's future. 
Despite wide reaction to the particular way in which the seminar was handled and to its effective­ness, there was some general agreement about what the business school would emphasize in , the future. 
''There was an excitementpast members and a good way for the University to hear an interest­ing speaker.'' 
He invites all students to attend. 
Concert today 
by guitarist 
at St. Mary's 

Julian Bream, English guitarist and lutenist, will appear in concert today at St. Mary's. The per­formance, scheduled for 8 pm in O'Laughlin Auditorium, is part of the 1976-77 Performing Arts Ser­ies. 
For ticket information, contact the SMC Programming Office at 284-4176. 



' ... 
'· 
1 .4 I I· II I. I I•' I 
~ 
., 


---~---------~--~--~-­
--~--~---------~-------., 
Thursday, November 11, 1976 the observer 
5 

Action 
Express 
Q. Where can I pick up On-campus mail If It hasn't been delivered 
A. If your hall clerk hasn't been hoarding it, check the mail room in the basement of the Administration Building where the hall clerks pick it up or call at 6274. 
Q. I live off-campus and want to know where to pick up my permanent phone directory when It comes out. 
A. When they come out, the off-campus residenh will have to pick the directories up at the Registrar's Office.· 

Q. I missed the swine flu shots the Drst time around. Is there any where In the IU'ea where I can get one? 
A. Swine flu innoculations will be given at the Town 


Meany open to talks with Carter 
b)' Robert A. Dobkin AP Labor Writer 

WASHINGTON AP -AFL CIO President George Meany says labor leaders are willing to discuss voluntary wage-price guidelines if proposed by President-elect Jimmy Carter. but Meany reamins ada­mantly opposed to mandatory con­trols. 
''I'm quite sure when the time comes we'll be ready to talk to him about it." Meany said, referring to voluntarv restraints. 
At a news conference Wednes­day. the 82-year-old labor chief jokingly said he expects to play the role of "elder statesman" in the new administration. 
Meany also said that when he has problems affecting workers. he expects "to have that problem considered by Gov. Carter when he becomes President." He added ·'that is the only commitment Carter has made to me -that any problems we have he will give them immediate consideration." 
Sen.  Robert  Dole.  President  
Ford's  vice  presidential  running  
I  

South Bend man acquitted of one of two murders 
ST. .JOSEPH. Mich. AP -A South Bend. Ind.. man charged with murder won a major legal victory Wednesdav when a Berrien District Court judge ruled that the state had insufficient evidence to prove a murder had been committed. 
Gerald Libertowski. 34. is charged with murdering Janis K. Sanders. 24. of Niles -although no body has been found. 
Libertowski was acquitted in South Bend in August of killing another woman -whose body also 
\ was never found. Judge Ronald .J. Taylor, in a hearing to determine whether suf­ficient evidence exists to bring Libertowski to trial. ruled that the prosecution failed to prove that Mrs. Sanders was dead or that she met her death by foul play. Dcpuly Prosecutor Jeffrey Long said he would appeal the decision to the Circuit Court. 
The prosecution said Mrs. San­ders' wallet was allegedly found under Libertowski's South Bend home. Libertowski admits that Mrs. Sanders lived with him. but says they broke up before her disappearance. 
The prosecution also presented witnesses that said they were·seen together in Niles 'before Mrs. Sanders disappeared in 1975. 
Defense attorneys said the evi­
dence dido't prove that Mrs. · Sanders was murdered -or that she was murdered in Michigan. 
Under Michigan law, the ruling 
· · blocks testimony by Myron Huns­berger wbo claim~ lip€rtow5iki .con, .. _.• fessed to him. Hunsberger was the · state's prime witness in the South mate. often charged during the campaign that a Carter victory would make Meany the rca) presi­dent. Meany said Dole cost Ford votes because the Kansan came across like "a brand new Dick Nixon." 
The new administration's first order of business. Meany said, should be to provide jobs and turn the economy around. A tax cut may be a needed stimulus, he said. However. e4conomic statistics issued last week raised the possi­bility that inflation may be more of a problem than Carter thought, forcing him to resort to special anti­infaltion measures such as wage and price restraints. 
Carter said during his campaign he would like to have standby authority to impose wage and price contrls. if needed. but he didn't think they would ever be used. Some of his advisers and congres­sional Deomcrats have speculated the President-elect mav seek to establish voluntary guidelines for wages and prices. _ 
Meany said "we will be there" any time Carter wants to call business and labor together to talk 
Bend trial. Libertowski says Huns­berger. a former associate. mur­dered the woman. 
Taylor said he had the "strong­est suspicion" that Mrs. Sanders was dead but "this court must follow the law." 
Sl1etl sttllle li!lllf •••• \T•••••· f••f•••·e
. 
After college, what will I do? 
That's a question a lot of young people ask themselves these days. 
But a two-year Air Force ROTC scholarship can help provide the answers. Succes­sful completion of the program gets you an Air Force commis­sion along with an excellent 

For lnfo~Watlon contact Capt. Davis, 283-6635. 
·Airl¥ce leTt~ ...... Gate\\'DY te a t;reat Way ef l~lfe . ~. 
starting salary, a challenging job. promotion opportunities, and a secure · future with a modern Air Force. If you have two academic years remaining, find out today about the two­year Air Force ROTC Scholarship Program. It's a great way to serve your country and a great way to help pay for your college education. 
about curbing inflation. 
On other matters. Meany endor­sed John T. Dunlop to be Carter's labor secretary. Dunlop quit the post last year in a dispute with Ford. 
The AFL-CIO chief credited labor. black votes and other minori­
t_ies with helping swin_g t~e election • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • I
for Carter. but he dtdn t respond I when aske~ if he ~cit C~rter owed •COuPON SAVINGS I
1

labor anythmg for tts effort. 
Meany showed no ill effects of I ~is long bout . with re~pirat~ry I tllness that hospttahzed htm twtce I earlier this year and prompted him 
to contcmJ?lat_c rctiremc~t. He said I 
he was thmkmg about It but had 1 not made a decision. 
Logan Center needs Miami tix 
The ·Notre Dame-St. Mary's Coun­cil for the Retarded has requested I that students donate their tickets 1 for the last home football game, 
against Miami-, Nov: 20, to the I supply Council, in order that_ clien~s fr?m 1 lasts L~gan Center may see the Ftghtmg I only!
lnsh play. The Council is hoping for 250 I • • 
tickets a~d-will be collecting tickets 1 HALF GALLON• SEAGRAMS 
at the dmmg halls that Saturday. I 
Nov. 13. during dinner. Since the Miami game is the final home 1 
game of the season, students will I not have to worry about having their tickets returned. I 
The Council hopes that the I students will be considerate in this regard as it would mean a lot to the I 
clients from Logan Center. 
1 
I I I 
I HALF GALLON • VODKA
I I I .-, I 
I r 
I 
I '.!:--~ 
-II•~~
.......,..

I . I I 
~I,-. I

I 
I --I 
I" Good Thurs.,
... 939 
I coupon only • ,.., F"o~~-at. 
I I •••••••••••••••••••••
4 LOCATIONS-OPEN TILL 11 P.M.
I 
• Ton &C0111try c.tre • hrttp P.t, a.,
I 
lclilltJ It Hlcbry Rd. Ul Pll'llp A1t1111
I Phone 259-3262 Phone 232-8858 
I • liter Ptrk Lill•r • 12111 SL Lill•r sa.. I
)_I··.. Mit .........lit:··-· ._.. .. '1753 1211111., .... I 
Phone 289-3868 <~one, 259-8,634 , . • 
..
·················--···· 
and Country Mini Mall on Nov. 8 and at St. Mary·~ on Nov. 10. 
Q. Who do I contact about joining the Ski Team? 
A. You can call Nora Duffy at 284-4981. 
Any questions? Drop them off at the Ombudsman Office in the Lafortune Student Center or call 283-7631i. 
7CROWN :~~:~i:nly 9~proof 
HALF GALLON 
JIM BEAM 
With this 
g&s

coupon only 
THREE ALL I
1

DAYS fOUR 
ONLY STORES I
I 
Whl 
1 
. 
new 

WOLFSCHMIDT :~~:~i:nly 81!,._, 
'\\I 
~la;;;~lil~!/lii 

HALF GALLON • BLEND 
CALVERT EXTRA 
All Coupon•
With this 
New a<der 1ust OrTived. While supply la>h only. 

*The Observer 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's 
The Observer is published by students of the University of Notn· Dame and St Mary's College It does not necessarily rPfiPct the policies of either institution The news is reported <l'> anuratPly and as objectively as possible. Editorials n·prP.,Pnt thP opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Comnwntaries, opinions and letters are the views of their author" Column space is available to all members of the rommun1ty, and lettPrs are encouraged to promote the free t•xpre~slon of varying opinions on campus. 
Bu~mess Manager Tom Fronczak Advertising Manager Mike Miller Photo Editor Tony Chifari Production Manager Martha L Fanning 
Box Q, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 Phones: (219) 283-8661 [ND) (219) 284-5365 [SMC] 
EDITORIAL BOARD 

Thomas 0' Neil  Editor-in-Chief  
Dan Sanchez  Managing Editor  
Chris Smith  Asst. Managing Ed.  
Gregg Bangs  Executive Editor  
Val Zurblis  Executive Editor  
Pat Hanifin  Editorial Editor  
Bob Mader  Exec. News Editor  
Maureen Flynn  .Campus Editor  
Marti Hogan  St. Mary's Editor  
Don Reimer  Copy Editor  
Tim O'Reiley  Features Editor  
Fred Herbst  Sports Editor  

DOONESBURY 

C'MON, GINNY, BcLIEV/3 M/3, IT'S BeeN A CLY0/3, 1'0LOV£ UJNG NIGHT. TO. 8tJT TH/35E 
I..ETj; GETOt/T EXPENO/TU!<EOFH/3Ri3, REPOI<TS HAVE \ TOBC/N BY 
\ NOON! 
by Garry Trudeau 
WHY DON'TY()(} 
CAU BWNOIE TO 
H&lP Y()(}? SHe SIIOUW 8t UP BY NOW. 
I 
Thursday, November 11, 1976 

A Cheerless Welcome to the Board 
This weekend, Notre Dame's Board of has been practiced, has treated us like Trustees will be meeting on campus. One children rather than the adults we think we purpose of this meeting will be to discuss are. student affairs. Because of this, a group of The adult-to-adult relationship stressed representatives from student government in Burtchaell's of in loco
Fr. theory seriC?usIy foI ks !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
and the campus media have been invited to parentis is practiced by a mere handful of address the trustees, and give their the rectors. Most have chosen to rule on perspectives on student life. We welcome disciplinary matters without consulting 
Satirist's
the Trustees and wish to give them our student rights, as outlined in du Lac., the views on student problems under the student manual. Dome. This manual sets up a system of justice 
Con.vention
We, the students, are proud to be a part whereby cases may be heard before hall of the great institution that is Notre Dame. judicial boards as an alternative to 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii art buchw a I d 
We are proud of the education of both judgements by the hall rectors. The choice mind and soul that is offered here. We of rector or j-board is to be given to each W ASHINGTON·-A meeting of the he's no Rockefeller." consider the family-type relationship student accused of a hall offense. At American Society of Humorists, "You can say that again," a 
Satirists and Political Cartoonists columnist said. "But then again
among the students, faculty and admini­present, many rectors choose to ignore this 
~s held in the basement of the Rockefeller was no Agnew.''
stration to be essential, and we wouldn't right, dispensing instead their own swift 
First Baptist Church of Washington "You can say that again."
want it any other way (insofar as it is idea of justice. last Wednesday morning to discuss "What are we going to do with possible in a 10,000 member community). Even more mutual distrust results from the effects of the election of our Mondale?" a cartoonist asked. profession. Another cartoonist said, "When
However any organization, if it is to the vagueness of the du Lac rules. 
we draw him we'll have to write on

remain alive, must periodically take stock, Students and administrators sometimes 
his coat, 'Fritz Mondale, ViceEveryone was bullish about the

examine its priorities, and make changes interpret the same rule in widely varying 
results, believing that Jimmy Car­President of the United States."' 
where they are needed. We feel that the manners. There is even considerable ter would provide us with excellent "Dole was easier. All vou had to time has come for Notre Dame to do this. disparity among administrators when it material for the next four years. do was draw "a guy who iooked like 
Nixon, holding a hatchet in his

As Student Body President Mike Gassman comes to enforcement. We would like to (Our society always asks what our 
country can do for us, not what we hand, and everyone knew who he
puts it, "We have lost the vision that once know where we stand. was." · 
can do for our country.)

guided us." Perhaps the greatest contributor to our "Any guy who says 'I will never "I don't want to throw a wet There is, we think, a crisis of confidence feeling of loss is the quality of Notre lie to you,'" said one cartoonist, blanket on this meeting," another 
"can't be all bad." cartoonist said, "but do you realize
here. The administration's confidence in Dame's social life. At a university where 
''I'm 'iorry for Gerry Ford," said we're not going to have Henry
the students seems lately to have been relationships among people are stressed, 
another cartoonist, "but I needed Kissinger to kick around any
lost. And partly as a result, the students the opportunities for the relationships to more?"
Carter's teeth. No one ever knew
have lost much confidence in the admini­develop are too few. Student Union, whom I was drawing when I "I forgot that," someone said. stration. Student Government and some hails have sketched Ford." ''What are we going to do without 
Kissinger? He was great for _

A disturbing example of this was the put on programs to liven things up but A political satirist said, "The 
beauty of Carter is that he's the laughs."
recent censorship of WSND-FM, the there is still a long way to go. 
first President we've had that we "And so easy to draw."
student radio station. After rejecting what One part of the problem is the lack of I said, "I'm sick about losing
know lusts after women in his it took to be a mild suggestion to end the social space. Opportunities for students to heart. That in itself is a big plus. Henry. He put bread on our table.'' 
"There'll never be another Kis­

six-year practice of broadcasting hockey mingle are seldom. provided. Another part We've had Presidents who did it 
and Presidents who didn't do it. singer,'' someone said.
games, the station was told by the of the problem is the linking, by the 
But this is the first President we'll A stand·Uj> comedian tried to
administration to take the ''request'' as an administration, of the sexuality and pari­ch•eer us up. "Forget Kissinger.
have who doesn't 'do it but thinks
order or be closed down. In effect they etals rules. Too often parietals violations about it a lot.'' We've got Pat Moynihan and S. I. were told that the administration did not are automatically equated with sex, and "What I'm looking forward to," ' Hayakawa in the Seante. They even trust them to pick their own treated too harshly. said another political satirist, "is could make up for Henry. We never the family. Billy Carter, Jimmy's exjpected Kissinger to last for­
programming on as minor a matter as Many students seek housing off-campus ever."
brother, Miss Lillian and Amy, his
hockey. as a means of bettering their social life. daughter, should keep us in busi­"It's funny. I did," I said. Upon investigating the incident, the Unfortunately many find they encouter ness for a year." The president of the society stood up. "Can we get on with the
other campus media encountered only worse problems, e.g. crime. A political cartoonist said, "And 
don't forget we have Sunday school business of this meeting? I propose
closed doors and closed mouths. Formerly This is not a very cheerful welcome. 
and Plains, Ga., to work with. All we send a telegram of congratula­
open-armed officials are now unapproach­However, we present these problems to tions to Jimmy Carter and wish him 
we have to draw is a peanut and a
able. The effect upon us can only be a loss you, the trustees, not merely to complain, Bible and everyone in the country well and tell him that if he makes as of confidence in those over us, for without but to ask your help in solving them. We will know whom we are talking many boo-boos in the White House 
about." as he did in the campaign, he'll get 
communciation, there can be no trust on are not seeking "change for the sake of 
"Carter's Administration could no complaints from us.''
either side. change," but instead we are looking for 
be a Camelot for humorists and "I second it," someone said. 
The loss of confidence, seems to result family support to help us overcome what is cartoonists," someone said. ''All those in favor say aye. in the refusal to give the students any presently troubling us. Perhaps, then, we "Of course, we're going to miss Opposed? The ayes have it. Herb 
Block will now lead us in the

responsibility in determining their own will once again have the vision we need. Rockefeller," someone else said. 
"Fritz Mondale is a nice guy, but closing prayer."
affairs. The policy of in loco parentis, as it 
.,...... 

~!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~ p . 0 . B0 X Q --­
choice cleaned each week. The supplement it. Also have the
Laundry 

laundry can't even perform this profits from the student-fed mach­humble suggestion that it serve as
Give us

measfy service to the men's satis­ines go to the student union. The an invocation for classes: 
faction. To add insult to injury the Laundry doesn't need it, they "Our Carter whou art in the Gear Editor: Laundry continues to perpetrate launder enough money over there, White House, hallowed by Thy
Ripoff thy· Carter? 

The Notre Dame Laundry Service this fraud under the guise ()[giving its the clothes they can't clean. If Plains. Thy kingdom having come, . ws done it again! The males of a livelihood to 160 South Bend the laundry finds that it is not what on earth will be done?--as it his campus have been taken to the residents. It has never been fully needed by the students then I think Dear Editor, was before in Georgia? Give us this 
leaners once more by this in· explained why only men can enjoy we ought to set up a bonafide In light of recent political devel-day our daily grits; and forgive us idious pseudo-service. The alarm­this charitable act. assistance program for the workers opments, and the necessity to our tax system, as we forgive those ng twist is that the student union -I say make the laundry optional and let the whole student popula­re-orient our perspective to em-who have elected you. And lead us 1as been sucked into this scheme. for both males and females. Have tion support them ihstead of those brace the religious aspect of our not into Penthouse, but deliver us / 
The facts are simple. Males are on-campus pay machines for those unfortunate males with a twice­new leader, I offer the following from Mondale. Amen? ... " ·arced to pay $2.60 to have their who don't opt for the laundry paid-for, non-service,service. accomodation for your publication mderwear and a shirt of their program or for those who ne.ed to David M. Roos in The Observer. With it goes the Bradford P. Bauer 
-~--------------~---­
,~-----------~-~---­
... 

U.S. agribusinesses battle with Third World peasants over land· 
by Partida F1ynn Paclfic News Service 

Fmm Guatemala to Mexico to the Philippines, U.S. agribusiness giants are c11ught in a simmering war with the hndless peasants of the Third Worlci. At s ...ke is a large part of their $30 billion in overseas investments. 
Over the last l.J years firms like United Branc'~ formerly United Fruit, Castle & Cooke, which bought Standard Fruit aud Dole, and Del Monte, have tripled their investment in the rich lands of the underdeveloped world. 
But in the process, they have driven thousands of peasants off theri land. sparking repeated waves of resistance. 
And judging from disclosures made at a recent Del Monte annual meeting, followed up by a detailed 
sutdy  from  the  North  American  
Congress  on  Latin  America  
(NACLA),  the  tactics  used  by  

American corporations to meet this resistance have included intimida­tion, political play-offs and a var­iety of subtle methods to skirt the law. 
Del Monte, which came under attack for such practices from dissident stockholders, church and public interest groups at its Sept­ember meeting, is the world's largest canner of fruits and vegeta­bles. Though it refused to reveal the esze of its vast plantation system in Asia, Africa, and Latin America, its annual sales of more than $1.2 billion indicate its mam-1'-vi:I nature. 
One of the most recem contro­versies surrounding Del Monte has come in the Philippine region of Minanao, where Del Monte. United Brands, and Castle & Cooke, lured largely by the Japanese banana market, are all expanding their operations. 
The result, in an area where land was already in high demand, ahs been a bitter confrontation with the local peasantry. 
According to CatholiC priests on the scene, Del Monte agents have threatened small landholders that unless they lease their land it will be encircled by Del ~!onte and all access will be ~cut off. 
The priests also report that local officials have facilitated the land­grab by refusing to process dispu­ted land titles unless the owners agree to lease to the company. Many who have resisted the pres­sure have seen their lands fenced , in and cattle driven onto their fields by Del Monte employes and armed guards. 
"They bulldozed people right off the l:lnd," said Father Ed Gerlock, who was arrested for helping pleasants resist. "Now they're using aerial sprays, harming famr animals and giving people terrible rashes." 
The luckier of those forces to lease are now working as hired labor for Del Monte on their own lands. Others remain unemployed, trying to subsist on the rent they receive from the company. 
Most of Del MOnte's plantations in the Philippines are public lands leased from a government corpora­tion. For decades, Philippine na­tionalists have complained that the agreement violates the Philippine constitution, which prohibits for­
eign control of plublic lands in 
excess of 2,253 acres. 
The nationalists aLnost achieved 
their goal in 1972, when the 
Philippine Supreme Court handes 
down a ru~ing that would hvae 
limited U.A. land ownership. But 
almost immediately President 
Ferdinand Marcos declared martial 
law and quickly rescinded the 
decision. 
Del Monte has always been on friendly terms with Marcos, host­ing him several times at its plantation mansions. 
A similar conflict has erupted in northern Mexico, where more than 100 peasants have been killed over the past year seizing adn defending land they claim is rightfully theirs. 
Their targets have been large landowners, many of them Ameri­can, who have circumvented Mex­ico's 247 acre ownership limit by becoming partners or contracting with local farmers. Many of the locals, in turn, distribute their deeds, each for 247 acres or less. among their relatives. 
Del Monte and a handful of other 
U.S. corporations, including Car­nation and Campbells have virtual­ly reshaped the Bajio Valley, one of the country's most fertile regions. Through its contracts with local farmers, which it gets by offering attractive credit and technical c.id, Del Monte is able to dictate which crops will be produced, on how many acres and at what price. 
While Mexico uses scarce for­eign exchange to irrport corn, the main staple of the Mexican diet, thousands of fertile acres prud.Ice an American "luxury" variety of corn for Del Monte. 
Researchers fromUCLA who have visited the Bajio also reprot that most of the farm workers in the fields contracted to Del Monte are paid about $3 a day, 25% below the Mexican legal minimum. But be­cause the corporation does not directly hire the field hands, it is not technically violating Mexican law. 
As in the Philippines, many these same laborers were originally · peasants, driven off their lands by the pressures of corporate agricul­
ture. 
The most fanous battle between 
American agribusiness and Third 
World nationalists, however, was 
the Central American banana 
scandal, which eventually led to the 
suicide of United Brands President 
Eli Black. 
In 1973 the banana companies 
were fighting the formation of a 
cartel of banana-exporting coun­
tries and the impostition of a 
$1-per-bix tax ib banana exports. 
Publicly they threatened to cut 
production and tried to convince 
some countries to pull out of the 
cartel. 
But privately, United Brands 
paid Honduran President Lopex 
Arellano a bribe of $1.25 million. 
When it was discovered, Arellano 
lost his job and Black jumped from 
the window of his Manhattan 
office. 
Meanwhile, demands for agrar­
ian reform. aimed principally at 
foreign companies like United 
Brands and Standard Fruit. had 
accelerated into massive land inva­
sions, armed conflicts between 
growers and peasants and wide­
spread arrests by the government. 
But the pressure from U.S. 
agribusiness proved at least partly 
effective. Only Pnama went 
through with the full $1 tax, though 
Guatemala imposed a 44-cent-per­
box tax after a bitter debate in 
Congress. 
Del Monte had its own ''banana­
gate" in Guatemala in 1972, when 
the company attempted to buy 
United Brands' banana plantations Jhere. 
The Guatemalan government re­
fused plermission fo.-the $20 
million purchase for more than a 
year because of legal limitations on 
foreign land acquisition, then sud­
denly reversed its decision. 
Under pressure from the U.S. 
Securities and Exchange Commis­
sion (SEC), Del Monte was forced 
Teacher slain in class 
. DETROIT AP -Seven year old Laura Denomie and 35 other child­ren just started their English lesson in Betty McCaster's first grade class. A man entered, exchanged a few words with the teacher, then shot the teacher. 
"Miss McCaster w scream­ing," Lasura recalled later. "She reached her-hand out and tried to push the gun away but bullets hit her and she fell against the table." 
Miss McCaster,46, was fatally shot in the head Wednesday in her classroom at Burt Elementary School on Detroit's northwest side. 
"We were screaming, and we all ran out of the roiom," 'Laura told polic. "He shot her three or four times from this far," she-said, indicating a distance of about five feet. 
Hours later, police arrested Miss 
McCaster's estranged hus­
band, 
Most classes were cancelled tor the rest of the day at the school where Miss McCaster had trans­fered only,three weeks ago because police said she was afraid of Lewis. 
Her sobbing pupils fled the scene and clustered in a first tllor classroom. Their parents waited anxiously in the corridor while police tried to piece together the youngsters' confused stories of what happened. 
Police and school officials said a man had come to the school, inquired .vhere Miss McCaster's classroom was, and entered it just as s;1e \,egan an English lesson. 
Pupils said the two exchanged a few words before the man pulled a gun. When Miss McCaster's told one child to go to the principal's office for help, the children said, the gunman became infuriated. 
The Detroit Free Press reported in today's editions that Lewis had for the past two months been trying to get public school officials to fire his ex-wife. Lewis called the newspaper several times, claiming he could prove Miss McCaster had stolen school equipment. 
The newspaper said Lewis called a reporter Monday and said he had signed himself into Doctors Hospi­tal and expected to be there three weeks. A hospital spokesman refused to say what kind of treatment Lewis had. He signed himself out Tuesday nig:ht. 
School principal Wllbut Klein said ·Miss McCaster's husband, whom, he knew slightly, had come to the school a few days ago and demanded to see his wife. The principal said he told Miss McCas­ter, but she refused to see Lewis. 
___tt'l~ observer 7 

•l 
l 
•I 


I l I l I 
' I ~ 
j 
' 
•l I 
~ 
j 
I 
l
Cao.pus Ministry celebrated the opening of their new offices in Badin 
l
yesterday with an open house. Celebrations will continue at 4:00 to 
I
r;:JO m. tod 
secretlv 
paid a well-connected 
"consultant", later identified as a 
man close to Guatemala's presi­
dent, half a million dollars to 
change the president's mind. 
Corporate chairman Alfred 
Eames contends the consultant fee 
was not a bribe since it wasn't paid 
directly to a government official. 
And the SEC never brought 
charges because Del Monte had 
been careful not to violate the 
technicalities of the law. 
But sources with ties in the 
government in Guatemala have 
said that a large part of the 
consultant fee was passed on to 
President Arana. as is widely 
o b Debbie Krilich 

I assumed in Guatemala. I 
Guatemalan nationalists sttll l claim that Del Monte's purchase l was illegal. sinl'C the country·!'. I constitution forhids the sale of I lands on the border to foreign j corporations. j 
Although Del Monte now own~ j about 56.000 acres in Guatemala. it I has only 12,000 acres under cui~ j tivation: The rest of the land is I used to graze company cattle --not ~ to produce meat, hut, as a compan) I official admitted in an intervi('W. "' I keep peasant squatters off the j land. Del Monte may also hope w i keep the Guatemalan government I from labeling the lands idle. which j is justification for expropriation. 
• 

Thursday Live Disco Music Again! Post '74 Sugar Bowl Films 
Beers-$.25 10-12 Hot Dogs $.25 10­Drink Specials 9-1 Hurricanes-$.50 Friday Happy Hour 4-8 Mixed Drinks $.50 Beers 5 for $1. 
iht tnlunial 
Fantak£ Ions£ 
UR SPECIALTY 

OVEN-BAKED APPLE PANCAKES 
"You'll be back for more" US 31 (Oixieway North) in RosP.Iand <Across from Holiday Inn) 
10 percent disc:ount to all N~SMC students with I. D. 

FEATURING FINE EQUIPMENT BY: 
Ampeg  • Guild  
• Marshall  • 5. L  Mossman  
• Gibson  • Swede  
• Musicman  • M.X.R.  
• Yamaha  • Blessina  

Band instruments and accessories Drum center now open ~ 
home of professional and future professional musicians finest selections of guitars, amps and accessories 
50921 U.S. 31 North, South Bend, Indian. 277·3850 

Convicted murderer has 4 days till death 
by Bill Beecham Associated Press Writer 

SALT LAKE CITY AP -Garv Gilmore. a convicted murderer · who a~ked the Utah Supreme Court 
11> lei him "die like a man," wit' fa<'t' ,1 !Iring squad Monday barring .tppca]., for a secofld ~tay of \. \Ce.:utiun. 
'he cxenllion. .,cheduled for Ha.m. 111, ill'.' l'tah Slate Prison ground., 
•1tl mile'. .,outh of ~alt lake ( irv, '"ntl<i b~ the tirst in the L'.S. ,in.-c I .11-. """'Monge died in a CohJr: .:o 
._,., d·amhc·r 1111 June 2. 19t,7. 11.·t· are mot • th.an .tOO men and '·'·! '' :. ·"' .tittrt,; possible execution 
1.1 llL;1tl1 !{,,"., aL-ro~s the nation. 
hl'lirinl.! lith Calvin L. Rampten 
a ... upportl'l' of capital punishmcut. 
~ani he would studv Gilmore's 
L'a~ed and i.,sut· a statement toda~·. 
The gmernor can stay an execu­
tion until the next meeting of the 
State l3oard of Pardons. That 
would nol he until Two clays after 
(oilnwre i'> .,l·hn1ukcl to die. 
Gdnwrc. wearing pri~on garb 
and red. white and blue tennis 
o,hol'"· rold the live Supreml' Co: 
jt;slict''-o Wcdae.,day: 
·t hc·ilcve I was given a fair trial. 
and I think the sentence was 
proper. and I'm willing to accept it 
like a man and wish it to he carried 
out without dday." 
The justices..in a four to one ruling. then vacated a stay they had granted Monday by a three to two vote and agreed to let Gilmore be ~hot on schedule. 
liilmore's role in the case left groups oppo...ed to c·apital punish­ment in an awkward position. JJut Shirley Pedkr. dtreetor of the Utah l·hapter of tht American Civil l.ihertie~ Union..-i<lid her group was considering at least two possible lines of last-minute appeal. 
She <;aid one \.\a~ to appeal the constitutionalitvut>f the Utah law to the U.S. Sup~emt,? Court. which ruled earlier this year that capital .Junishment was not inherently 
tnl'On~titutional. 
The other pn.,sihility. she said ''a... lo ask the court~ to forbid usc:, ot tax money to pay for a•1 unconsilutional execution. 
htch of five volunteer member;, ol !Ill' tiring squad would ea: 11 )17,<;, 
The po.,sihilitv of other litigatioP leading to a stay was rcaised !-_; David Kendall. an expert on capit<J 1 punishment for the National Ao,;o;o ,·iation for the Advancement of Colored People. 
Kendall said there were report... rhat Denis Boat. Gilmore's new California law~·er and might have a contract to write about the case.· Tlti.,, he said. might represent a nmtlict of intcre.,t. 
.. M~· client understands his :·I). .,oltlle ri,l:ht to an appeal. but he dm·., not wish to take it." Bo.. z told rhc ... tate high court on Wednesday. 
"Thi., is not .a suicide pact or pl'n erst· death wish." 
Btll F·.r·l;n in a telepht,ne inter­'il'\\ af• 1 Wednesday's decision ~a;d he i ." K~ a sui,·ide nwti\T ''is 
Good turnout 
for swine flu 
shots at ~MC 

Swine flu shots were given 
vesterdav to St. Mary's students 
;tnd fac~I!:y in the St. Mary's 
Clubhouse. 

··we don't know the exact 
number of students yet. but I 
thought it was a good response. 
There was probably SO%, but 
that's just an estimate," said 
Verna Woods. director of Student 
Health Services. 

According to Woods, that is 
about the same response the shots 
have been getting elsewhere. 
No immediate reactions to the 
shots have been reported. 
Woods said, ''The reactions 
would occur over a period of 24 a very real possibility"for Gil­moprc's behavior. 
Esplin said the convict once told Pim, "lftheydon'tdoit, 'I'm going to spend the rest of my life in prbon. 
liilmore. who would be 36 Dec. 

4. was convicted of first degree murder for fataly shooting Bennie Bushnell. 25. last summer during rhe robbery of a Provo motel. Gilmore said he ordered Bushnell to lie on the floor, put a pistol to his head and pulled the trigger. 
(jilmore. who had been on parole ·>inL'C April CJ from Illinois prison, hao, 'it't'lll I H years in prisons for mhht·t ~ . car theft and assault. 
He abu IS charged with the fatal shooting the ni~ht before Bush­nell's death of a Brigham Young Univcr~itv law student who worked as a part·time gas station atten­
dant. 

Utah Stall Pri'~on Warden Sam­uel Smith .~atd he ha<, had no shortage t'f volunteers for the firing squad. \\hil-h was last used in JCJ60 0 to exn·uk James Rodgers for t~.e murder nf a fellow miner. 
L'tah ·gi' e~ conden111ed prisor•er a choice hL•twcen hanging a.1d ll1e firing squad. the latter a survival from territurial davs adn Mnrmt"11 adherence to the .biblical tenet of blood atmtc.·ment. Gilmore h;ts ·;adi he prdcr~ to hL' ~hot. 
ND co-ed in auto accident 

Shar~n Voyles, 21, of Farming­ton, Mtch., suffered minor head and leg injuries last night when the car in which she was riding as a passenger collided with another on Juniper Road next to the Library Circie. · · 
According to St. Joseph County Patrolman William Goss, Bruc~ Shafer, 22. of South Bend and Voyles were heading south on Juniper Road at 8:20 p.m. when Burdette Shouse. 64. of Osceola, failed to yeild the right of way and made a left hand turn into the Library circle. Shafer collided broadside with Shouse. Sahfer's 1963 Nolkswagon received exten­
sive damage to the fromt end. Shouse's 1975 Oldsmobile was s~ightly damaged on the passenger stde. 
According to a spokesman at St. Joseph County Hospital, Voyles' :·:juries were not serious. 

American Studies 
conference 
forthcoming 
A conference of the Ohio-Indiana chapter of the American Studies Association wit be held at Indiana University East on April 22 and 23 and anyone may submit a paper for the conference. 
The theme of the conference is "From Rags to Riches': The Self­Made Man in American Culture." The theme is to be interpreted broadly. 
One or two "debut" panels will be organized, depending upon ~ubmissions. These panels will lnc~ude papers by' authors who have not yet published their first article or read a paper at a convention. 

Three copies of the paper or outline must be submitted and "debut" papers should be identi­tied as such. The manuscripts or other inquiries should be post­marked before March 4 and are to be sent to Prof. Thomas Clark, 
hours. However, the perc~nta.&e of 'American. Studies Program, lddi­
~· reaction~. i,s. very low ·a~cor~~ng: ~o:-, .ana ·Unive:~it,Y, .~-~~h-,.~if~'P~d. •:·.ihe.County.·.Health Sel'vtces.-q .• .• ..-.·Ind. 47J'z4:.·: :~· .: ,: ·.· ,• •· •' •' •' ···~ .• 

Because of space limitations all the events of the invitation only, University officials said Wednes­weekend dedication of Crowley Hall of Music, day. [photo by Paul joyce] including Friday night's musicale, are by 
Due to court order 
Restaurant hires waitress 
NEW YORK AP-The posh "21" Club. known as one of those restaurants where everyone who's anyone is sure to turn up. has hired its first waitress and coined the term "waitperson" to cover all its serving staff. 
Jeanne King, 30, a college gr_aduate and professional wait­ress. has started work as a part-time apprentice and will begin waiting on tables by herslef in two weeks. 
Miss King was hired as a result of an out-of-court settlement by by the American Civil Liberties Union on behalf of Miss King and Cathryn Smith, also a professional waitress. The restaurants named in the suit were all alleged to have rejected employing the two only because they are women. 
The suit is still pending against such restaurants as Lutece. La Cote Basque and the Four Seasons. 
The "21" Club agreed in the settlement not only to hire Miss King, but to pay her an undisclosed fee and to pay to ACLU for legal fees. 
Terry Dinan, a member ot the "21 "management team said the practice of hiring only male servers was a longstanding tradition among New York's restaurants. 
··n s hard to he the first to break 
a'traditionk" Dinan said ina inter­
view today. "It takes a hig person. 
Well. we're a big restaurant. and 
we've broken that old trad1tion. 
Dinan said all "saipersons" will wear the same uniform worn in the past by male waiters--dark skaks and while jacket at lunch and a red Jacket with bow tie for dinner. 

"21" in a suit charging it and--~-~---=-:------------------'----~--'­


seven other well-known New York 
<;ity res_taurants with discrimina­
tton agamst women. . 

The "21" Club. just off fashion-
a?Ie Fift_h Avenue. is kno"':U for_ its 
htgh prtces as well as tts htgh 
societv. When President-elect Jim­
my Cartf.r lunched there with 
business leaders last summer. hi~ 
well-publicized hamburger cost 
about $9 with tax. 

Like other quality restaurants. 
"21" uses European tahlesidc 
service. Food comes from several 
different serving area~ in jh( 
kitchen. with the entree delivered 
either in a casserole or silver 
serving dish. Vegetables. side 
dishes and garni~hes all are served 
separately. 

The suit is a class action_ started 
Students ne£:ted 
• 

for committees 
lcontmued from page ll 

We want to represent tne off-cam­pus student by considering their 
needs.

All four of the chairmen stressed 
'le need for student involvement. 
1n Tassel urged all those who 
have an interest to contact the 
r,.sepective chairmen. 

"We want students with specific 
interests and students with specific 
e~pertise," Haley ~mphasized. 
anyone interested in assisting with any of the ad hoc committees, can contact Mike Casey in student government, 7417; Peter Haley, 1157; Ed Van Tassel, 3282; Sally Duffy, 7514 and John Steinman 232-6035. 
-~­
'~-. 

-WHY PAY SOc QN CAMPTil 
. · . 
ALL CIGARETTES, 38' PACK+ TAX 
CARTONS 85 mm $3.49 plus tax 
CARTONS 100 mm 
$3.59 plus tax 

WE ALSO CARRY THE FOLLOWING HARD TO FIND SMOKES 
Gauloises Caporal $.65 pack Gitane Filters s.6o pack 
La Carona Whiffs $1.15 pack Exports A's $.70 pack 

--------------------------------------------~­
Balkan Sobraine $.95 pack l<oiaks $1.09 pack 
MAR-MAIN PHARMACY 
CHARLES SPIHER, PHARMACIST 426 N. Mkhi~a.n ~~\~


S th 8 d I ~ 
. ~ 4u.. • OU en 1 n lana.JI'Nti ~~~~ -lolL ill ~·~ _,. · 234-3184 '"'~~ ~ -~ 
-;::::::::::::::::~~~::::::~~::~~~~~~::::::::~:::; 
j 

SENIOR TRIP 
INFO NIGHT 

Thursday, November 11, 197& the observer 9 
~------~~~~~~~~~----~­
l ~
Capital punishment is reinstated across world 
PARIS, Nov. 8 --In the early dawn of a midsummer morning, a steel guillotine blade ended the life of 21-year old convicted murderer Christian Manucci --the first criminal executed in France in more than two years. 
As the U.S. prepares for its own first execution since 1967, the July 28 beheading of Manucci may signal a similar new spate of guillotinings in France. 
And in Great Britain, West Germany. Switzerland and Italy, sharpening debate over the death penalty indicates a P<JSsible resur­rection of capital punbhment as an attempted criminal deterrent. 
Spain is the only West European country besides France now im­plementing the peacetime death sentence, though in Spain it is reserved for case~ of political terrorism of military misconduct-­not common crome. 
·Five Spanish revol u tionarit>s were executed in September 1ens. for example, for the assassination of policemen during the waning days of the Franco regime. 
Manucci's execution was the first in France under President Valery Giscard d'Estaing, indicat­ing that Giscard now intends to follow his predecessors. Gen. Charles de Gaulle and Georges Pompidou, in priserving capital punishment. 
Giscard had professed his ·"pro­found aversion" to the death sentence as a presidential candid­ate in 1974. And on two occasions since he had signed reprieves 
SMC graduates participate in Alumnae Career Week forum 
hJ Donna Berndt Staff Reporter 

In conjunction with Alumnae Career \\•eek. St. Mary's senior class sponsored a Forurn on Car­eers with SMC alumnae last night.· The three graduates discussed their place in society today and various aspects of a career. 
Sarah Earley, '71 explained her movement from a B.A. at St. Mary's to a sales representative for Xerox Corporation. She stated that she did not immediately move towards a career and spent the intervening time working as a secretary and obtaining her 
M.B.A .. 
Earley's intent was to explain interviewing techniquest to the 
Hall decoration contest to be held for this weekend 
There will ba a hall decoration contest as a part of Homecoming '76. The theme is "Around the World in 80 Days" and the judges will be members of the University staff faculty and students. 
A first prize of $100 will be awarded to the hall which best represents the theme and $75 will be awardi:d to the second place hall. 
Judging will take place from 3 
p.m. to 4 p.m. on Friday Nov. 19 and prizes will be awarded at the Homecoming dance. The hall pres­idents will be notified on Friday afternoon and invited to the dance. 
The Cheerleaders, Student Union, and Social Commission are also sponsoring a poster contest. The posters are, to be in keepin~ with the homecoming theme .and the first place prize is $30. 
The posters cannot be obstruc­tive to hall decor or "uncouth" and judging will take place at the same time as hall decorations judging. 
Applications can be picked up the Student Government offices. 
commuting death sentences into life imprisonment. But the French president solemnly announced that an example had to Je set in Manucci's case, especially since it involved the murder of a young girl. 
Recent polls in France show that S8o/o of voters favor capital punish­ment and that a retreat from the death penalty could cost Giscard up to one million votes in the next election. 
Following is a look at four other West European countries where the captial punishment issue is stirring heated debate: 
In Britain, the pro-capital pun­ishment movement has gained momentum with the spread of Northern Ireland-related violence -­pub explosions and letter bombs -­to England, Scotland, and Wales. 
Lobbyists are calling for the death sentence to deal with IRA members blamed for such acts, and recent polls indicate that 88o/o of the British agree. There is also strong support for dealing harshly with the killers of policemen, though less so for common killers. 
The death sentence was abolish­ed in Britain in 1965 except for certain wartime crimes. 
In West Germany, which abol­ished the death penalty in 1949, support is growing within the law-and-order Christian Democrat­ic party to revive capital punish­ment as a deterrent to political terrorists like the Baader-Meinhof group and the Palestinians who attacked the Olympic Village in 1972. 
In Switzerland, where capital punishment was abolished in 1942, except for wartime crimes of trea­son, mutiny and surrender, a May 1976 poll showed that more than half the population advocated the death penalty for crimes ranging from murder to drug dealing. 
In Italy, as in West Germany, rising crime rates and acts of violence are spurring calls within the ruling Christian Democratic party to reestablish the death penalty. I Most West European countries eliminated capital punishment decades ago. 
The Duchy of Liechtenstein was one of the first to drop the penalty in 1798. San Maring followed suit in 1848; Belgium in 1863; Holland in 1870; Norway in 1905; Sweden in 1921; Denmark and Iceland in 1930 and Finland in 1949. 
The Vatican scratched capital punishment from Its books in 1969. Until then, attempts on the Pope's life. massacres and a few other crimes called for execution. 
In Eastern Europe. Poland is the only nation actually to have an­nounced, in 1956, the end of the death penalty. 
A govermnent sounct> in Hun­gary said hi!> country no longer applies the death penalty for murder of economic crimes. But in the Soviet Union, East Germany, and Yugoslavia, the death penalty is apparently used regularly. 
According to Amnesty Interna-· tiona!. about 30 persons are con­demned to death every year in the Soviet Union for acts ranging from 
group. She c~plained how to obtain interviews. the legality of question­ing and personal attitude. She felt that it wa!> most inl'portant to maintain.a positive and confident. outlook during the interview. 
Mary Lou Gorno, '72. is present­ly working on her M.B.A. at the University of Chicago. She has taught secondary school and acquired her M.A. in journalism. 
SHe was conce-rned with the opportunities available to women' in the business world. Gorno ex­plained that an arts and letters degree is highly respected in the l11rgc:r corporations, as companies :••·e more concerned with person­.tlity and talent. She further ex­plained that most major corpora­tions have intensive training pro­grams to prepare the employee for their position. 
Rose Dilenshneider, a 1954 grad­uatc and now a mother of ten explained her movement from les· son plans and grade keeping to 

· secretarial work and finally to her present role a~ a volunteer worker!> and mother. 
Dilenshncidcr emphasized that­throughout her various occupa-tion~ 
she gained skills that will  aJwavs  
enable  her  to  gL·t  a  joh  if  she  
needed to.  

She further explained the value of a liberal arh degree, not only as a preparation fm a career. but a~ an outlook on life .. Dilcn~hncider felt that such a degree made one a fuller person a-; well a., expanded one's interest!>. 
In closing. the three '>peakers­commented on St. Mary's speci­fically. They explained the advan­tages of atending a woman's college. that "one learns to work and understand other women." 
robbery to World War II crimes, though there is no information suggesting execution for political crimes. 
Western reports indicate there have been at least 200 executions in East Germany since its founding in 1949. In Yugoslavia, three Croatian terrorists were executed in 1973 for killing a policeman. 
Press Raises Sentiment 

The French debate has taken on new impetus with the mid-October arrest of 28-year-old Joel Matcncio, the accused kidnapper and mur­derer of at least two persons in Grenoble. 
Supposedly connected with a radical political group called the "Rde Brigade 666." Matcneio. who evaded poli ~ detection for almost four month had been labelled by most of the French media eve~ before being t·harged as the ''ruthless killer" of several young people. 
The press 1campaign which virtually condemned the suspect to the guillotine as he rode to t·ustody in a police van, has helped sway the public into taking a much harder line on the death penalty. 
Now, large numbers on intellect­uals. politicians. editorialists and 
need resumes in a hurry? 

\~"~ 
~­
cO~ 

insly·prints 
the wi.z of the printing biz! 
rag bond 

25 -81/2 X ll $2.55 203 N. Main So-Bend 289-6977 
lawyers are JOllllng in passionate arguments both for and against it. 
In a nationwide television debate on capital punishment in October. the far right politician Jean-Marie Le Pen of the Front National PLartv declared, "With onlv one exet·u·­tion a year or so for the rising number of crimes committed. a firmer hand must be shown." There are now about 2500 murder'> a year in France. 
Critics of the penalty here point to the pervcr'iions of justice that occurred during the Nazi..._orcup.t· tion, when re'ipectable judge,_ some still on the bench. ~crJt plrisoners 1t1 their death~ ttl ... uit political demand'>. often 1)n trump· ed·up char5e~. 
France mtrnduced the L!Uillntinc in 170~. when the \\!lod ;tnd ,tec•l '>tnw:ure \\a., '>ard It> "hurnanilc" c~.l'.-ution~. and it -,oon · hL'< a me Jl"pular during the I'L'Iolutit~n. 
~pain. on the othn hand. fa1or~ the medieval garn>te. an iwn di1ice used hl kill l·ic·tim'> h1· rurninl! a screw that c'lentualll. break, 'the cer1ical vertebrae. Spain·, rhicf executiont•r. kmm n only a' ..\nton· io, says the garn>te ''make, one suffer Ie,s th;m the· clcctril-d1air or hanging". though he adrnih one 
victim  took  20  minute'>  to  die.  
rather than the n ormal fe11  minute.,  
or seconds.  

arm 
Qarber & Hair 
a_ 
Style Shop ­Open six days a 
nd
· week 
Mon-Fri 8 to s:30 Sat 8 to 3:00 1437 N. Ironwood South Bend 
~ppointment onl} 0 
277-0615 ' Q Cl1·"e to Campus 0
-

~·PARTY 
.'J SHOPPES 

.. . ... 

OF SOUTH BEND -.,. 
This weeks specials!!! 
Pabst Blue Ribbon $2.88 /12 Pack Gin & Vodka $3.~8/ Quart! plus more unadvertised specials! 
KEG BEER 
IN STOCK 
AT !RONWOOD PARTY SUOPPE CALL IN ADVAN<:E TO ORBER/HESEH\'E 
FREE DEliVERY $10 minimum 287-7744 
IRONWOOD 
PARTY SHOPPE 
1725 N. Ironwood 272-7144 
Near Thrift Mart 

Two-Year Scholarships Now Available The Navy will pay the tuition and furnish books plus $100 a month subsistence for your Junior and Senior Years at college, if you can qualify for one of our special 2-year NROTC Scholarship pro­grams. For further information, no obllgation·of course, call 283-6442. , . 
·~ f •
J 

---·-··­
Udall advises Carter to push bills that Ford neglected . . 

New medical problems stems out of fetus living in body of dead women 
by C.C. Miniclier Associated Press Writer 

DENVER AP -Doctors face legal, ethical. and moral questions in tr~·ing to save the life of the unborn child of Linda Irene Culbertson. Machines are keeping the 29-year­old woman's body functioning, but her brain is dead. 
A spokesman for the American College of Obstetrics and Gynecol­ogy in Chicago told Colorado General Hospital officials yester­day that the college has no record of such a case. 
Mrs. Culbertson suffered head. neck and internal injuries in an automobile crash on Monday. Des­pite the lack of brain activity, her body has been connected to respir­ators and other machines sim.>e then because of a IS-week fetus 
ND alumnus appointed NOAA director 
Notre Dame alumnus Cdr. John 
W. Carpenter was appointed col)lmanding officer of the Whiting. the Commerce Depart­ment"~ National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) announced last week. 
Carpenter, who received a B.S. degree in engineering science from Notre Dame in 1960, will command 



Cdr. John W. Carpenter the ltd-foot. 760-ton hydrographic sunev vessel. The $1.8 million ship_-which conducts nautical charting surveys in coastal waters, is based in Norfolk. Va.. and carries a normal complement of 36 ofticcrs and crew. An officer of the NOAA Corps. Cdr. Carpenter served on the Whiting in 1970-71 as Executive Officer. He has seen service aboard the Pierce and the Surveyor, has been chief of three geodetic field parties and was the ·~···. r ·''"''"'i"<:innrr1 nffit·er to <;erve 
doctors discovered after the acci­
dent. 

In expanding the doctor's dilem­ma, hospital spokesman Ted Wrenn said: 
"You have a heart beating inside another body that for all intents and purposes is dead. What do you do? It raises a whole series of problems." 
Doctors say the fetus cannot be removed from Mrs. Clubertson's body until it becomes viable at 20 weeks of gestation, and weighs at least 500 grams, or a little over one pound. 
"We don't know if the body can support the growth of the fetus," said Dr. Janes Ogsbury, chief resident of the surgical intensive carr. unit at CGH. 
·'A whole host of folks are studying the medical, legal and ethical questions" 
Ogsbury said it would be a day-to-day decision whether life support is maintained. 
Doctors say that the lack of brain activity prccludess Mrs. Culbert­son's survival if the life support machinery were removed. 
Ogsbu~y said the case is not related to that of Karen Ann Quinlan of New Jersey. whose parents won a court battle to have their comatose daughter removed from life-support machinery. Rath­er, he said, it is related to the question of abortion, which the 
U.S. Supreme Court has ruled is a decision to be reached between a woman and her doctor. 
Mrs. Culbertson's husband, Vaughn, a pharmacist, has refused to discuss the question, but a 
member of the family said, "We have hot made any decision yet. It is a very traumatic moment for us." 
The couple's child, Shannon who is 6 months old, suffered a fractur­ed skull in the auto accident with her mother and is reported in good condition. 
Colorado law does not define when a person is legally dead. When doctors determined that ~ Mrs. Culbertson's brain had died, they acquired legal documents permitting her to be an organ donor, but organ transplant plans were cancelled when the fetus' heartb~:at was detected. 
Artist hits gold mine by painting hot dog pictures 
CHICAGO AP--Gustav Korn, who 
studied painting in his native 
Budapest, Hungary, and dreamed 
of perhaps becoming a great artist, 
now has hundreds of his paintings 
displayed--an hot dogs. 

Korn, 62. came to this country 20 years ago and went to work for a sausage company, curing corned beef. In his spare time he painted landscapes. 
Two years ago one of his bosses noticed Korn 's painting at an art show. 
''And the next day I had a new job with the company, a sign painter," said Korn. "I paint hotdogs with and without mustard; Jr with relish and mustard, or with Jnions, relish and mustard, most often in a bun. 

•'But sometimes I paint just the naked weiner or sausage; The colors can be just as exciting as those in a landscape." 
He says no two hotdogs are ali~e. 

There are variations in their curve, shape and color. "Each one is a new challenge. I have as much fun painting hot dogs as I do painting landscapes," he said. 
Korn said his weekly production 
may be as many as a dozen signs, 2 
bv 3 feet in size. 

-"It's not a job I can rush or be 
pushed in. For instance, Polish 
sausages·e 20 inches long and are 
·•• •n r-~rt 'vf,. naintinps <;how the 

The signs are distnbuted by the company in a seven-;,tate area for use at hot dog stands, restaurants and delicatessens. 
~ Italy trip data 
Students who want to spend three or more weeks in Italy during the Christmas holidays have the opportunity to do so through the offerings of the Study in Rome Programs. 
Tuition for the three weeks is $200 and the scheduled departure dat.e is Dec. 1, but students may arnve at a date after that. 
Registration forms may be ob­tained by writing to Study in Rome Programs, P.O. Box 611, Coconut Grove, Miami, Fla. 33133. 
NO's Bob Golic 
[continued from page 11] Does Saturday's game with the Crimson Tide lose any lustre because of the fact that bt th teams possess 6-2 rec<•rds? "No, because I think we stil' have a shot at a major bowl 1 :arne if we beat 'Barna." The ·rest of the Notre Dame Commu1 tity hopes so. But despite the outr orne, Bob Golic will 
,. 
"Carter to the very end was not all that specific on the issues," the Arizona Democrat said. 
"I suspect that by the middle of next year there are going to be some loud yells and some com­plaints." 
The consumer groups believe he is on their side and many bu'iiness people supported him because they believed he would back their side, Udall said. 
"One or the other of these groups may be disappointe--1 as he has to define himself by making up budgets and by making tough decisions and you're going to see a reaction in the Congress," Udall said. 
There will be trouble if, for instance, Carter recommends con­
~~nc~i;~:~~s B·l·a~~~~;r :~opifpi~ge 
increase for the Defense Depart­ment" in his first budget a year
from now, Udall said. 
d Hut Carte~ M~~s off wtth a btg a ~~t~ge, etsat · "d t f .e v~ g~h~ p~est en T~ o~r party m t e tte ouse. ere s 
a strong disposition to work with him, a disposition to give him the benefit of the doubt, a disposition to help him out wherever we can and make his presidency a suc­cess."' 
Udall said he believed initial reports that Carter would have trouble with Congress were over­blown. Whatever, fault there was, he said, was because of inexperi­ence and an Atlanta-based cam­paign which took pride in not heine: 
In Washington. . But he said Carter will need 
people who know about. C?ngress 
and the influence of special mterest 
groups if he is to avoid big 
mistakes. 

r"'...,..~~..._~......,,....._,......,..,.._~..._~,......,,....._,......,..,.....~~_,......,,,.._,. 

CLUB ORGANIZERS and all others wanti.ng to sponsor films for the Spring 1976 -1977 semester, applications are available in the 
Student Union office, 2nd floor LaFortune and are due by November 19, 1976. 

BRING THIS COUPON, BUY A WHOPPER, FRY AND COKE, AND WE'LL RECEIVE SOc. 

dllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllimfd _ 5 f Notre Dame
;; UppOr Women's Track ~ 
=Bring this Coupon Buy a Whopper, E : Fry (regular) and : : Coke (medium) 
Jla.ve;.,. : 
6 

= and Burger King b : -will donate 50c to the ~....._.. = 
= ~!URGER = 
Women's Track Team KING = 
= ~ ®=­
IIUIGIR GOOD ONLY SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 1976 ;;:ft KING ,1111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 KING® 
E-AMA FLIC-FEST 
THURSDA1 Y NIGHT 
9:00 LaFortune Ballroom 

SEE '66 & '73 FOOTBALL STARS IN ACTION 
FREE 
sponsored by: 
l .~.-':~.__ ,.....,....,....;~1 ,....·""'"'rn1c.~1n~ 
rhe United Way luncheon held yesterday SMC turned out to be sulress. lphoto by Debbie l<rilich] 
WASHINGTON AP-Rep. Morris Udall says Jimmy Carter could get 
off to a quick start in the presidency by pushing for passage of some of the bills that were never enacted or fell victim to President Ford's 
vetoes. 

"If I were he," Udall said, "I would take the half-dozen most outrageous Ford vetoes of bills that have been debated and finely 
toned and say let's do these in February and March. Pick some­thing that has been pawed over and is finely tuned and is ready to roll and put it on the road and move it. 
"People like a winner and people like a mover and shaker and this more than anything else would put him in charge in Washington if he can find a quick agenda for that 
tOO days." Udall said in an interview.
Udall, who was runner-up to Carter in the race for the Democra­tic nomination, said Carter's rela­
tionship with Congress is not yet clear. 
-------------------------------------------------------~ 
Thursday, November 11, 1976 the observer 11 
Keenan and OC victorious in IH plaY
by BemJe O'Brien Sports Writer 

The field of contenders for the 1976 Interhall Football crown was narrowed to three last night on Cartier Field as the teams from Keenan Hall and Off -Campus scored victories over Zahm and Morrissey Halls respectively. With their win over Zahm, Ke :nan now advances to the North Quad championship game against Grace on Sunday, with the winner of that contest meeting Off Campus for the .::ampus title next Thursday even­ing. 
In the first game last night, Keenan relied on a sound running attack and an impressive defensive showing to trounce their neighbors from Zahm 23-0. In the first quarter, Kee,an wasted little time getting on the board grinding out 65 yards in 12 plays. Mark Mulli­gan capped the drive with a two-yard plunge. Ed Daink.J added the extra ooint kick to put Keenan ahead 7-0. 
Oniy moments later, after foro:· ing Zahm to turn over the ball, Keenan started again from their own 46 yard line. Following a brilliant 38 yard jaunt by Fran~. Hopke down to the Zahm 4 yard line, Keenan scoted again a~ Hopke crashed in from 3 yards out. With the PAT by Dainko, tht· Keenanites led 14-0 without throw­ing a single pass. 
For the remainder of the first half. Zahm managed on only one occassion to find an opening in the otherwise impregnable Keenan defense. The big play came mid­way throught the second quarter when quarterback Jack Kearney found Steve Cicciarelli open for a 35-yard gain, setting up Zahm with an ideal scoring opportunity at the Keenan 4-yard line. 
But the Keenan defense failed ttt bend any further, rising up to stop Zahm tor no gaih on their next rwo 
Notices 

An American Studies Happy Hour will be held at Bridget Maguire's this Friday at 4 
p.m. Be there. 
Pitt Club ThanksC~ivin'l Bus SiC~n-up Sunday Nov. 14, 6:30 p.m. LaFor­tune. 
Notice: ALL persons who purchased Homecominn Packanes. The Dance coupons M i.JST be-redeemed for dance tickets. Redeem at S. U. ticket 
office this week.  
Having a kegger? delivery & low pr288-7878.  For ices  free beer call Chip  
AUDIO  OUTLET:  All  top-name  

stereo equipment. Wholesale. Call 283-1181. 
Tickets for the J. Geils Band-James Gang concert Friday November 19 at Kalamazoo's W in'ls Stadium are now on sale at the River City Review ticket outlets: Boonie Records (Col­leC~e Squareland Just for the Record (l 00 Center)_ 
MORRISSEY LOAN FUND !11•?-WW. 1a DAY WAIT. '•a PER-t
1 

CENT INTEREST. Due in 30 days. LaFortune Basement. M-F 11 :15· 12:1-5. 
Accurate, fast typinCJ. Mrs. Donoho 232-0746 Hours: 8 a.m. to 8 p_m_ 
Gay Community of Notre Dame. Cat: 283-8870 10:00 to 12:00 p.m. Friday and Saturday, or write: P.O. Box 206 Notre Dame. 
For Rent 

Will rent my upstairs $40 mo. Girls only. Call 233-1329. 
GaraC~e for rent. Call after 5:15. 287-5718. 
Need two or three roommates for 5-bedroom house with fireplace. OPENNING immediately or for next semester. $40.00 monthly plus utilit­ies. Call 288-5661 after 6. 
Lost and Found Lost & Found: If you picked up the wronC~ camel hair jacket by mistake at Morrissey's Campus View party, Sat. Oct. 30, please call Shannon 51_50 SMC. I've got yours-reward for mrne back. 
LOST: Camera and attachments from occupant's room in Old Field House (Art Dept.) over October break. Film in camera is important. Owner would greatly appreciate its return. Call 1354 or 4-4820. 
To the bstd. who stole Calif. license plate 565 JMV I want it back! Call 1747. 
-----------:...,....--­
Lost: calculator (SR 50A) between the circle and the Library on N D Ave. Thurs. night Oct. 28. Please return. Call Ben 233-4222. 
Lost: At Campus View apts. Fri.' 
nite, N9v.. ~-A, .li(lQt, ti!n S!Jed,e_ winter coat with whtte sheepskin lining. If found, contact Jir:n (3210) no questions asked. Reward. 
plays from scnmmage. 1 he Keenan defense then sacked Kear­ney for a seven-y~d loss to end the lone Zahm sconng threat of the half. 
Keenan continued to dominate play in the second half of the contest, recovering a fumble on the Zahm 30-yard line late in the third quarter to set up a 10-yard field goal by Dainko. Leading 17-0 late in the fourth quarter, Keenan tallied its final points. The score 
came when second stringer Nick Molinaro rushed for 75 yards in two plays to ice it 23-0 . 
The second game of the evening proved to be much more clo~L'I~ contested, with Off-Campus riding the arm of basketball walk-on Bil Sahm to score a come from behind sudden-death victory over Morris­sey Hall. 
In the first half of play, neither team was able to sustain an appreciable drive, with both defen­sive units closing up the ground passages as well as the airwavs quite effectivdy. What the first halflackedin excitement, however, the second half made up for tenfold. 
Morrissey was first to attack, recovering an Off-Campus fumble on the latter's 35-ya•d line. Six plays later. quarterback Jack Mc­Carthy ..,cored from four yards out to put Morrissey on top ll-0. In-what would p~ove to be a fatal mistake, Morrissey faked the l kk for the PAT and went for the two-point conversion anti failed. 
Only two plays into the final stanza, Off-Campus was provided with their scoring opportunity of the game by recovering a fumble on the Morrissey 36-yard line. But quarterback Bill Sahm, whose throwing game had bee•• upset al evening by tipped passes and a strong Morrissey rush, was again unable to move the offense. With slightly over nine minutes remain­
attempted to ear up the clock while Without the servtces of a place-keeping the ball on the ground. It kicker Off-Campus was forced to go was at this point that Off-Campu~,. for the two point coversion. but down but not ~mt, staged thetr failed when Sahm fumbled the comeback. Forcmg Morrissey fo snap from center. With the score 
punt the ball after onIy thrtc deadlocked at 6 6 . • the gamt· was downs. OC set up on the Morrissey forced into sudden death. 4~ with only a little over fiv~ High School rules were employ­mmutes left in the game. Finally. ed in the overtime period, provided Sahm came alive. After passing for each team a chance to score from two first downs, Sahm found Kevin ten yards out in 4 plays. Off Bolyard open up the midd.e for 3J Campus was given the ball first, yards and a touchdown. with Sahm finding Tony Miller open in the enazone tor a tbree yard touchdown. Sahn once again .. connected with Miller fo the two-point conversior givin~ l)ff. 
Campus a 14-6 edge. 
Morrissey was then given the same opportunity to score, a -.mc­ing to the three vard lin-"tth only one play rem~ining. 1' the final play of the game. quart -rn.~ck Jim Edwards lost hi~ footir-!< .1nd fell to the turf. taking with hin . the Morrissey pla~·off hopes. 

Bob Golic follows Irish traditio'J 
by Tony Pace Sports Writer 

Since the davs of Sam Huff. the position of middle linebacker has been the most glamorous on the defensive side of tlhe line. The man who has the distinction of playing this spot for the record-setting Notre Dame defense is Bob Golic. 
The Notre Dame defense i~ struCtured to allow Golic to play 
either  the  traditional  linebacker  
spot  or  drop  into  a  three-point  
stance as nose guard.  What does  

he think of the dual role he must play'! Golic says, "I like the position I'm in now because it gives me the variance of being either a down lineman or a linebacker. But, I think I like playing linebacker better because it gives me a lot more freedom." 
Though the Willowick, Ohio native is not trying to model himself after any particular player, he is not unaware of the rich tradition at the middle linebacker position. "I always liked to watch the linebackers, like Dick Butkus and Mike Curtis. Butkus ws big and fast, and he was great. Curtis, he was almost a nui." 
Golick states. however, that one need not be crazy to play his 
ing Morrissey got the ball back and position. "You can be blocked 
Lost: SMC nold class rinn ennraved wilh Mary-Esther Hi<--; BS, '78. Reward if found_ Call 4524 _ 
Wanted 

Must have 2 GA tix for Alabama 
will pay_ Call John at 3019. 
Will pay $20 for two nood Chicano tix. Call Chris 288 9768. · 
Barna tix needed 1 or more student or GA-name your price Joan 1334. 
Desperately need 2 GA Barna tic­kets. Call 5154. 
Need 2 GA Alabama tickets. Call Gary-3075. 
Need GA tickets for Alabama or Miami. Call 6617. 
Need up to 10 Barna fix_$$ Call Jim or Kevin 234-8083 after 5. 
Need Alabama tickets somethin' fierce. Call Martha at 4819. 
Need 8 GA Alabama tix. Call Chris al 8336. 
SKI FOR FREE! 15 min. from Notre Dame. Are you a Certified Ski Instructor, or just an ardent skier yvflo w~uld enjoy ins!ructinC~? Apply rmr:tedtately Royal Valley Ski Resort Matn St., Buchanan, Mich. 616­695 3847­
Need 2 GA Alabama tickets. Call Claire 6833. 
Typ_ing wanted picked up and delivered. Reasonable. Diane 683-7759. 
Will pay dollars for 2 GA Alabama tix. Call Tom 3693. 
Need 6 Alabama tickets. At least 2 GA. Call Bev 287-2219. 
Must get 4 or 5 Alabama tickets or 1 will be disowned by family. Call Stan 289-4740. · 
Need two Alabama tix.. Call Nancy1276. 
Please HELP!! I desperately need 3 
.., GA Alabama tickets for parents and a priest. Call Stephanie 1364. 
Need 2 GA Alabama tickets. Call 
John 1757 _ 
Need GA tix for Alabama. Call 6153 _ 
Need ride to MSU on Friday, 11-19. Call Nick 8225. 
Desperately need 2 Ga tix for Miami. Call Pe(l!JY 4-4381. 
Wante'Q·: · 1 Alabama ticket. Call Mike at 8376. -L-·------------­Need ride to Purdue or Indy Friday,Nov. 17 ,._.., 0 '~<Penses. Call 79P 0 
Classi ied Ads 


Need 1 or 2 Alabama GA tickets. Call 1571. 
Need 6 Barna tix, l:liC~ money Ga or student. Kevin 1657 
Need two 'lOOd Chicano tickets. Desperate! Please call 7745. 
2 GA Ala tix wanted. Call Friday after 9 a.m. 233 5373. 
Desperately need Barna GA or student tix. Call Ron 8685. 
For Sale 

2 student Barna tickets. Call 5154. 
FOR SALE: 2 STUDENT (SENIOR) TICKETS FOR BAMA & MIAMI GAMES. CALL 8042 OR 1755. 
Texas lnslrumenl SR-50 lor sale. Half year old_ $45.00. Call 1196 even inns. 
BBOK SHOP. Used books. Students paradise. Open Wed., Sat., Sun. 9-7. Ralph Casperson Books, 1303 Buchanan Road. Niles, Mich. 683-2888 
Two Chicago fix together, padded seat. Call Tom 1022. 
-----·----------­
FOR SALE: Sherwood S-7225 stereo receiver, Realistic Lab-14 turntable, 2 MC 1000 speakers, stereo head­phones, and cabinet. $250 or best offer. Call Curt at 8711 after 5:00. 
Swiss wrist watch (day-date), ornate indian bedspreads, neckties, etc. Call Ed 288-0018, 8 :30-1 o:00 any night. 
Personals 

SKR, Thanks for the visit. 
C& G 

Poor Jan, Sweet 18 and never been ... Happy Birthday anyway. 
-----~:_:~~!:_Y~~~~~ng 
Sorin 7 Housewarming party Friday 
4 :00 on. 10 kegs_ 11 houses north of nickies. 
Al'ldre, BONNE ANNIVERSAIRE! Je pense toujours a toi et tu me manques! 
Je t'aime, Tracy 

trom any angle and you must be willing to sacrifice your body; ym. need a sort of controlled era­ziness. 
Considering the fact that Golic is only a sophomore. it seems a~ though he would have a definitt· chance to be named as an All­American before he graduates. He r:omments. "All through my life I have set rather high goals for myself. In high school I tried to be All-State by my senior year and I succeeded. 
"I have always realized that setting high goals makes you \Htrk harder to achieve then·.. I have thought about All-Am.:rican. it is something I can work for and it makes me better for trying. Whether I make it or not remains to be seen, but I will work harder to achieve it.·: 
Has Golic set any other goals for himself? Yes, he would like to play professional football. His father played for seven years in Canada. so this is something of a family affair. As Bob says, "I've always wanted to play pro. It appeals to me that I can do something I love and get paid for it." With his 6-3, 240 pound frame, the pros will be more than happy to have him. 
Besides playing middle line­backer for the football team, Golic 
DEEBLES, 
HOW DID YOU GET YOUR 
NAME? 
C & G (we won't tell) 
AAJ, 
For _one year we've been lo,ether I 
want to say I love you and I thank 
you for the time we've had lo,elher 
Love and Kisses_ Love. 
Bushki 
Welcome back triple domer (l 0 yrs. J 
Dr. F. Newton Underwood, 
B.S.A.E., M.S.A.E., PhD. Capl.

USAF. . 
FAST EDDIE, 
I really will be your friend or pal, but 
not your buddy!!! 
109 CCC 
Peter, you rascal. Happy B day. your women on 3rd South 
Tony C. & Kevin H., 
Did you CJUYS C~et lost on your way 
back from Cleveland? 
CCC 
Bush k1 bear, 
One year of bliss_ Happy Anniver 
sary' 
Love, 
Babushka 
Deebles, JD, & G, I had a nreat time Tuesday ni'lhl. Thanks. 
c 
Look up in the sky the "Indiana Banana" 
Bananovic, Are Czech or Polish??? 
Joycekin, hurry up and get well! We miss all your strange concoctions at dinner: Sally, Driz, Diane, Barbara, Mitzi, Joan, Sheila, Connie, Eve, Robin, Kathy, Nancy, Jane, Pat, Dan, Dave, Brian, George, Vince, John and everybody else (sorry if I missed anyone). 
Bobo, 
I like cherries, peaches and nuts_ 
Love, 
Patty 
It didn't say anythin'l in my contract about typing obscenities. You know how embarassed I get_ 
There once was a nirl with no 
guy, ­Who said Oh-my goodness oh my! There's a dance by B. P_ That's just made for me. Sadie Hawkins-the answer-no lie! 
Del. 225 staff HAVE A NICE DAY Cadet CCC 
Girls, this is a once in a four yearchance. 
Bye bye to the Bobsey twins. Here comes curlylocks. · 
·o-e--;r"Err;,;'d:;;ih~.----..,.­
Meet me across the Mason-Dixon ltne. Richly Si(Jned (poor). Melvin G. Hardage 
also wrestles the hcavyweigl~: po­sition for the Notn· Dame wn·<tr n~: ream. In fact. he was undefea···•l in intcrcollegiaie l·omp:tition :J" season. Becau~e t.f this record h~ 
vas invited to grapple with 'ht­i~ussion national champion in Fl.tr­ida last spring. 
In Bob's own word~. "The 111:·· _.;, started at about 8:30 and wa~ . ·. u by 8:31." It should be n• t•:d however that h.: wa~ in tht: irdir­mary unti1the day before the Pl.ltL·h and his Russion oppo.tent hc.·a !Ill' the Olympic ch~mpion in Mnntrc·al this past summer. 
Golic find~ that hrs wrc!>tling atd'> his football ana vice ver'>a. "In watching the film~ after the game I have noticed myself making move-. to evade blockers that arc t'\sen­tially wrestling moves. Both gJme!> involve pretty mU\:h the ~amc thing. controlling someone or evading somenne. For me the sports l'lln~pliment one another " 
Bob is living proof of what otncr coaches choose to call the lliotrc Dame mystique. ThOugh he vi.,ited five schools bcstdes ND. he never really considered another insti­tution. "I looked at other sch· ><>Is because I felt that I owed 1t to myself. I really always wanted to play for Notre Dame." 
!continued on pag. 101 
JJ 266 You have suth ctood tas• 
how did you ,et stucl<. W<fh a roon 
like lhat? 
So he had a rotten room p•ck. Yo<. can't always be lucky 
Welsome home Terry Chel'ks and Daddy AI. Love. Bitsey 
Brink. too. 
HELLO SAILORS! 
JBM, We really think the ROTC BLDG is a nice place. don't you? RCGJ 
I feel incrim•nated 
1223 People· No more ,oodie~ until you start to pay for them. 
The Donu• Man 
'<NG, 11 more shopp.n, days_ CCC 
How sad, C, how sad'' 
DC C~rad, 
Little Golden Bedr neneral mo•e••n ., 
under the apple tree to watch the 
reflection of the sunr,st• 1n !he 
windows. Blue noSt' requ•red t 1~ 
lh at arfs"y?' 
N D undenr·•d 
P.S. I don't want 10 be practical' 
RNG. Did it really ,row back !v.. ._ •. as bi'l? 
I can't cope. don·• ask. and why an 1 <ncluded in thest• d-s-tust•n, th<n ~~? G 
Opey. Hope th•n,s-are 'loin'l Wl'll d' Sorin Love, Tr<xie 
Welcome to lhe Barna Gdtn<'. Post & Emil (class ol 1976!. CCC 
How are the crazies a• u_ ot J? G 
W "''-Hope the bars surv<vf' your celebration Happy brrthday!' Love, Nano, Mary & Molly 
Nose, I know this is 2 w...£'k5 ld!e. but. hey who's coun!in·t? ho~ppy Belated B•rthday. Love, Liples. 
Deebles, Please tell your roommatl' & fnend that I'm not usually crazy' • (don't for'lef I C~et a ride in your Jehicle!l C 
Don't you believe it. nuys! 
Hans, Tom, & John, Here's your personal so stop complaininrt Any more noise and 1 won't dance with you. Twink1e Toes 
Happy Birthday (earlyl Pat 
Dermody!! Us k1dS in Or'l. 
M_J_ O'M Stop complain•n'l'! Stop worryin'l!! And here's thai personal you've been asking about_ MGM 
Good-ni']ht Liftte Eskimo P•e 
.... 
~-­

.:__:::_____ _:_:_=~ 

Many criteria determine bowl bids 

game is key for both teams involved. 
"We've always liked Notre Dame," acknowledged Executive Director Wilbur Evans. "Notre Dame is the number one team in the country as far as following is concerned. They have a charisma that no other school has.'' 
Charisma or not, the Irish record still stands at 6-2. Unless Notre Dame comes through with a victory this Saturday, the closest they will get to the Cotton Bowl is by watching the game on television. 
The chance that Notre Dame will receive an invitation to a major bowl may seem dismal now, after last week's loss to Georgia Tech, however, bids are not announced until Nov. 20. The Irish still have a chance to redeem themselves, while at the same time praying for other college favorites to be 
knocked off this weekend. 

Another bowl that may not have the reputation of tht"big three, 'tiut has been gaining in popularity over the last few years, is the Gator Bowl. 
The Gator Bowl will also be looking at the petformance of the Irish. It seems unlikely that Notre Tom Clements guided the Irish gridders into two consecuttve bowl Dame would accept an invitation to appearances against Alabama in 1973 and 1974. In both contests, this "lesser" of a bowl, unless Notre Dame emerged victorious over the Crimson Tide. they'd be playing a high nationally ranked' team. 
Some say that the Irish have no 
Rugby players romp
chance for an invitation to one of the three major bowls. One thing is 
by Lorraine Ehrline ball at the end of the half after afor sure, if any of the bowl Sports Writer serum went for five yards to up thecommittees are still considering Notre Dame margin. Byrne added
Notre Dame, their chance for an conversion along
the once againinvitation lies on the balance. 

Despite we tther conditions U\lfit with a penalty kick in the secondThis Saturday could tell us what for man nor beast nor rugby half to finish the scoring for thethe Irish will be doing around New 
players, the Notre Dame kugby Irish.
Year's. A good showing this Club romped past Purdue. 19-6. The Rugby B-team "Piggies"Saturday might enhance their The perennially tough Irish were also victorious in this week­chance of visiting Dallas this defense was call ~d upon in the ends action, downing the PurdueYuletide season. A loss would early minutes of the game when B-team 11-0. Led by captain Tomsurely mean the Irish will be Purdue was threatening the Notre Coyne and Tex Keffler. the "Pig­spending another Christmas at Dame goal line. The Boilermakers gies" outhustled Purdue through­home. 
used physical size to push the Irish out the game. Kevin Dieghan 's back to their doorstep but a recovery of his own kick and TedDeposits refunded defensive stand turned things Howard's 30-yard scoring gallop around 011 Purdue. Notre Dame led the Irish with Mike Roohanfor b-ball tickats moved with ease on the Boiler­adding a penalty kick to finish off 
makers and eventually scored when the Boilermakers. Any student who made a deposit Mark Tovey fell on the ball after a The Rugby team will resume on a season basketball ticket last serum put the ball in the end zone. action in the spring. 
spring, and failed to pick up their 
Then, with momentum on their 
ticket this fall, can have their side, Notre Dame flyhalf Tonydeposit refunded by going to the 
(Jose) Mendolio took a pass froM 
B-Ball scrimmage

Ticket Manager's Office on the 
Mark Tovey and eluded Boiler­
second floor of the ACC between 9 maker defenders to run into the The Notre Dame basketball team 
a.m. and noon, and 1 p.m. and 5 endzo~ unaccosted. will hold their first intersquad 
p.m. before the end of next week. Tom (Sweet B) Byrne added the scrimmage Friday night at 8 p.m.This is the last opportunity that on the main floor of the ACC.
conversion for the Irish but more 
students will have to have their 
was to come from the potent Irish There will not be an admission deposits refunded. attack. Bob Olsen fell on a loose charge. 
Soccer seeks varsity status 
by Fred Herbst interhall team, so a varsity team ''All we would need is transpor­Sports Editor should receive the necessary sup­tation, locker room facilities, a port from the student body." coach and a trainer," Austgen The athletic program at Notre "Varsity status would also serve said. "We already have uniforms Dame .::onsists of m0re than j•.;st to attract better quality athletes to and the basic equipment. I think varsity sports. In fact, var·.ity play soccer here," Austgen con­we coJid compete on a varsity level 
sports compose only a small part of tinued. "Not too many high school for $2,000 a vear. the athletic programs available to soccer players want to come here to The women's varsity fencing and students, the rest being intra­play on the club level when they tennis teams reportedly receive mural, interhall and club sports. can play varsity somewhere else." $4,000 a year for their respective 
The club sports are probably in The team's schedule would also programs. Austgen is quick to the most interesting situation of improve according to Austgen if point out that the soccer team isonl)' any of the athletic programs at the tile team was awarded varsity asking for half that amount. University. Unlike intramural and st 1tus, since other varsity teams Austgen admits however, that 
interhall teams, clubs are expected \\ ·. ·uld be more willingly to play the team could only last two or 
·to compete against other schools. them. three years on $2,000 annually. Unlike varsity teams, clubs don't Better coaching would also ben­"This is a cut program, " he get total financial backing. This efit the squad should they become emphasized. "But maybe by going puts the club sports in a different a varsity sport he added. The club on a crash program we can demon­position, faced competing on president points out that the mone) strate to the University that it is the collegiate level with limited the team would receive as a varsity viable to grant us varsity status. It ·budget. sport would allow them to have a would only be two or three years 
Soccer is such a club sport, but professional coach, their first ever. before expenses would increase, the members of the club are hoping Currently, Bob Connolly, a law before we'd need new equipment. that they won't be one next season. stt1dent, coaches the 'A' team <W.niforms, etc. After we're estab­
According to club president Dave while John Kirby is the mentor of lished, we're going to need $8,000 Austen, the soccer club will peti­the 'B' team. Kirby, at 21, is the to $10,000 a year." tion the athletic department for secong youngest licensed coach in "In being realistic, our chances varsity status for next season . the nation. for getting varsity status aren't 
Austgen cites a number of The club presently has an active good," Austgen conceeded. "But reasons that, to him, justifies membership of SO, that composes we are getting better organized all varsity status for the team. both the 'A' AND 'B' teams. the time and maybe we can succeed "Soccer is becoming a big thing." The outcome of the club's peti· next year or the year after. he said. "Notre Dame is one of the tion for varsity status almost cer­Organization is the key, and we're few schools in the midwest that tainly hinges on the economics of getting there." doesn't have a varsity soccer team. such a move. How much would it The soccer team concludes their Also, the interest is high on cost the athletic department to season Friday night against Xavier campus. Every dorm has an support a varsity soccer team? University at 7:30 on Cartier Field. 
by Paul Stevenson Sports Writer 

A post-season bowl game · the ultimate goal of a college football power. The essential criteria for a bi-d: h1gh national ranking, respec­
table  season  record  and  large  
school drawing power.  
"We  have  a  meeting  every  

Monday morning and evaluate what happened over the weekend in college football," stated Gil Sloan, Information Director for the Orange Bowl. 
"After our evaluation, we issue a most wanted poster. Our current most wanted teams are Maryland, Pittsburgh, Michigan, Ohio State, USC and UCLA." 
The Orange Bowl has a four year contract with the winner of the Big Eight conference. The agreement cxpir.:s in 1979 and is subject to renewal. The other participant is open to any school. 
··Notre Dame has been on our list for half of the season,'' Sloan added. "Just because they're not on it this week, doesn't mean the~ won't be listed next week." · 
Whoever does receive the open invitation, which at this point looks like Pittsburgh ·Nill receive close to one million dollar". for their partici· pation. 
The Sugar BoJwl committee fol­lows a similar procedure. The members have visitation commit­tees which are sent out each week to certain "key" games. Most of the visitation committees are com­posed of executive board members. 
The various committees are as­signed to certain areas of the country. The visitation committees relay what they have observed to the executive board. Mike Smith, a "'otre Dame alumnus, covers the Irish battles and reports his findings to the executive com­mittee. 
When the bowl invitations must 
be announced, the executive com­
mittee reviews their briefings and 
votes on a team. 

"We're still looking at Notre Dame," remarked Executive Di­rector Captain Joseph T. Katz. "We love Notre Dame and they have a great followin~. They have drawing power; we never count them out until the very end." 
Even though t l1e Irish have a great following, their performance last week leaves their chance for a bid on edge. Katz did mention that Notre Dame's batt!~ with the Crimson Tide this Saturday is very important. 
A good showing against Ala­bama, plus a lot of upsets in college football, plus a little Irish luck and Notre Dame may have a chance for a bid. Even though Notre Dame may have more fans than most schools in the country, if their record is below par, an invite seems out of the question. 
The Sugar Bowl committee is also watching Pittsburgh, Mary­land, Ohio State, Michigan, USC, UCLA and the Big Eight runnerup. With such highly regarded compe­tition, the Irish chances for a bid grow even slimmer. 
The Sugar Bowl committee will not be the only ones represented in South Bend this Saturday. The Cotton Bowl committee will also be present for the 'Barna clash.· 
. The Cotton Bowl members are 
still interested in the Irish along 
with those colleges tJreviously 

mentioned by the other bowl 
committees. However, the Cotton 
Bowl members will also be evalu­
ating the play of Alabama. This 
Ted Robinson ~================::::==========================::===================================================::-. 
Football in Perspective 
I • 

:~=====================:===================:~&=========:=:~:~=:~=:~~=:~=-~<<--:c: one man s vtew 
It seems to get lost in t~.o:: sl.uftle of wins and losses, of bowl bids and of pride and tradition. When Notre Dame and Alabama take the field Saturday afternoon. the students should remember that they are seeing mme of the best college football in the country. 
I 
After the events of last year and the past week, this fact seems t0 be ignored. It's natural at a school where football is emphasized so heavily to tall into this trap. but a new perspective is needed. Disappointment will set in "<:hen a loss occurs. but the rash of pessimistic literature attacking 
the la..:k of pride and tradition on the team is unwarranted and proves
r 
nothing. 
So. this past week,as I'veseen the Notre Dame football program treated .s if this was a professional organization, I can't help but think back to a loothall game I saw over October break. It was Division Ill tootball, a far ~TV from what will be seen on the field at Notre Dame stadiun·. thi!> ·,aturday. The game pitted Hofstra and Fordham, a monumental clash roctween two titans of EasTerr.t college football. What I saw only made me •hink: 
Hofstra was one of the first schools in the country to install an Astroturf ourface in their stadium in the late 60's. Their stadium seats 10,000 and is 1sed by many high schools on Long Island. Unfortunately, they no longer :se the stadium for their home games. It seems that complaints mounted 
•bout the rising number of injuries. So, while a 10,000 seat stadium -.;tands empty. Hofstra plays their home games on a grass field hidden in 'Ie back of the classroom buildings. 
The field itself looked as ifthe U.S. Air Force (which previously owned :IC land and still owns the adjacent area) had done some recent test ombing. The area was not meant for football and Hofstra had done their :st to try and convert it. 
There were bleachers seating about 3,000 on the Hofstra sideline, while . :te visitors' side had only one bl~acher seating maybe 300. The rest\\ t:re Jared. A person with great wisdom placed the scoreboard on the face of . building which lies in the path of the sun's rays, making it impossible for 
•e spectator to see it. The makeshift "press box" was the roof of a nearby building, some 100 rds from the field. The public-address announcer was• forced to use nocu\ars, butit'smattered little because the sound system was barel·­
:tdible. 

When Notre Dame players take the field, an elaborate tunnel is formed ving the feeling of warriors preparing for the contest. When Hofstra 'ayers take the field, they have to dodge program hawkers, ticket takers, 
d kids with Cokes or, in some cases, beers in hand. As the game starts, the first mention is made of the Hofstra Marching 1zoo Band seated in Section 29. A halftime show at a Hofstra game 1tures a group of Professor Irwin Corey lookalikes marching on the field a melodic rendition of the Notre Dame Fight Song. The group also likes lend a vocal tnuch to the atmosphere. After a holding penalty against e Flying Dutchmen, the leader rose and led the group in a rousing cheer . "Castrate the ref!" The crowd becomes happier as the game progresses but not because of 
... 
'tat is happening on the. field. For some reason, empty wine bottles 
. gin to litter the sideline, and the vocal level increases. In that respect, s not unlike Notre Dame. Hofstra won the game 23-21. Everybody, including Fordham 
:.pporters, has fun. I wonder how much fun will be had Saturday if the 
•>re is in favor of the Tide. Not much, which is expected. But if more 
·ople saw games like Hofstra-Fordham, we'll appreciate the product ren if the outcome isn't pleasing. 



