
hut only Carter and Wallace have comeback to gain the political 
university of notre dome sf mary's college
made significant campaign efforts, headway--and the campaign contri­
Vol. X No. 104 Tuesday, March 23, 1976 and the rest of the field is expected butions--to keep going that long. to tr_ail far behind them. Reagan suggested in Asheville 
Fiberboard housing tested during Guatamala fieldwork 
by Phil Cacklcy mark Habicon Foundation will and ~ little bit of the b~ilding 
Senior Staff Reporter spend the next one to two weeks mater~~ls--.wc let ~hem take 1t from showing the Guatemalans how to there, M11ler sa1d. . . construct the housing units made of "It's a self-help. labor mtens1ve
Three Notre Dame architecture 
heavy duty cardboard covered with effort for the Guatemalans in which 
students and two ND alumni travel­
a wax-like coating for weather-we provide the materials," Plesa
led to Guatemala over the spring break to build temporary shelters prooting. explained. 
"This is the first big thing that The Anjomark Habicon Founda­
made of cardboard for victims of 
we're doing," Plesa said in an tion was founded in December for
the recent Guatemala earthquake. 
interview before he left. "In the rcsean·h, development and
This is the first practical test of 
Guatemala, cardboard housing can distribution of low-cost corrugated
the cardboard housing which is 
be observed in its reality. It's not cardboard housing. The foundation 
being researched on campus by the 
just an idea in an office. We're was formed from the Anjomarkk
Anjomark Habicon Foundation. 
making the jump from the lab to Research Company. a non-profit

The foundation was formed last 
the field." organization headed by Jack De-
December with the merger of the 
The shelters will only last for line, '61, who originated the idea of

Anjomark Research Company and 
about six months, Canavan said. cardboard housing. Habicon was a
Habicon, a campus organization. 
The prime concern is to give the campus organization connected
Steve Plesa and Davis Leonard, 
homeless some temporary shelter. with Anjomark which wanted to set

:;: 1975 graduates of Notre Dame, 
Permanent housing in a more up a village of cardboard houses on

went to Guatemala City two weeks 
coherent village plan can be con-campus. The project was turned

ago to present the idea of low-cost, 
.., --,., ---
cardboard emergency shelters to structed later. "The idea is to get down by the Board of Trustees last them out of the rain and give them semester.
the government. They were joined
Notre Dame students and alumni journey to Guatemala over break a home " Canavan said. The foundation which is based in

over the weekend by architecture
to test corrugated fiberboard structures. The cardboard was used 
The 'educational aspect of the Denver, plans to locate an office on

students Chuck Canavan, Hank
to erect temporary shelter for victims of the recent Guatemala Miller and Allan Ward. foundation was emphasized. "We (continued on page 7)

earthquake. 
The five members of the Anjo-bring them the idea, the knowledge
---·--------­
Campaigning to begin 

SMC studentelections next week 
to run because I see student president for academic affairs, by Pat Payne government as a viable organiza­pointed out that her previousStaff RcportN tion between the students and student government experience 
student government," she said. will aid her if elected. '"I have 
St. Mary's student body election When asked about her platform, worked with Dr. Duggan and Sr. b slated for Monday, March 29, Bilek stated, "We left our platform Ellen Dolores as a member of the with one party presently on the general because we want ideas to committee on Development to the ballot. 
come from the student body. St. Board of Regents and as Develop­
.Junior Mary Lou Bilek is the Mary's is small enough to that ment Commissioner. This will be a unopposed candidate vying for communication should occur easily great benefit to me serving as student body president. Also between student government and vice-president for academic 
running with her are junior Cathy the students. Ideas will have affairs," she said. 
Coyne for vice-president for acad­greater strength that way." Coyne also stated that she's emic allairs and sophomore Mary Bilek did, however, express de­concerned about the future of St. Ann Stolze, candidate for vice­sire for change over the present Mary's. She added, "I want to president for student affairs. student government. She said, "If hear the students' voices. They are 
To be elected, the ticket must elected, we will initiate a student in the classroom every day, theycollect SO percent of the total votes government newsletter that wasn't see what's good and bad about cast. plus one vote for the majority. implemented this year. It will each department and in return, Votes cannot be cast as split ticket. come out every two weeks and they sec how things can be Campaigning will take place contain progress made on student changed for the better." during this week. assembly and the board of gover­"As vice-president for academic 
"Let's move ahead" is Bilek's nants. Hopefully it will be a affairs," Coyne continued, "I'll campaign slogan. She presently remedy to the lack of communica­hear about changes in senior comps holds the position of vice-president tion between student government and minor requirements and will be Storage bins made from corrugated fiberboard demonstrate the 
for academic affairs. Rilek stated :~nrl thf' ~tnrlf'nt borlv." versatility of the product. Protective coatings can also be applied to 
In presidential primary 


North Carolina votes 
RALEIGH, N.C. (AP) -Republi-Wallace set out from Charlotte to that if he did drop from the race, can f{onald Reagan and Democrat campaign in five small towns on his Ford would no longer face pressureGeorge C. Wallace campaigned way to a windup rally in Fayette­to take positions acceptable to against the odds Monday, battling ville. "We feel good about this conservative Republicans. He said for up!>cts but insisting that defeat primary and after this primary Ford has done so only because of in the North Carolina prc!'!idential we 'II be involved in others," he his primary opposition. primary election would not be fatal said. "If I withdraw. will he keep to their faltering White House , Wallace has taken an increasing­moving that way, or will he revert campaigns. ly hard line against Carter in an to form?" Reagan asked. 
The favorites, President Ford effort to cut down the frontrunner Ford made his final campaignand former Georgia Gov. Jimmy in a normally conservative state. appearances Saturday, after sayingCarter. left their campaigning in "He has been found out all over the that he really doesn't care whether the hands of organizers and volun-country because he talks one way Reagan quits the race. tcers working on telephone drives today and another way tomorrow Democrat Carter wound up his to get out their supporters Tuesday and he is a warmed-over McGov­North Carolina campaigning Fri­in the sixth of the presidential ern," Wallace said. day. He was in Miami for a primaries. But at the same time, Wallace fund-raising appearance Monday.
Ford is five for live, and Carter made some attempts to amend his He and Ford were the favorites has lo~t only once, to Sen. Henry ·Jwn image, saying at one point that in the reckoning of North Carolina 
M. .Jackson of Washington, who is he is "a part of the New South" politicians and analysts. not campaigning in North Carolina. too. The primary awards 54 Republi­
On the eve of the North Carolina Reagan hopped from Asheville can national convention votes and balloting. Sargent Shriver, who to Charlotte, Greensboro and RaJ­61 Democratic delegates, to be never came close to the leaders in eigh, in a series of airport news shared by the candidates in his Democratic primary efforts, conferences designed to gain elec-proportion to their popular vote announccd in Washington that he tion-cvc newspaper and television showings. is withdrawing as a candidate. He coverage in the state's major cities. !>aid he was releasing his deleg-Reagan refused to say what atcs--11 of them. share of the North Carolina vote be 
Wallace, in Charlotte, said he expects to get. would not be "dispirited or panic "I will say, however, that how­stricken'' by another second place ever it turns our, I intend to linish in Tuesday's primary. continue in this campaign," he 
"I think we have a chance," the said. "There is almost a half a year Alabama governor said. But he to go until the convention in August said his opponents arc better in Kansas City, and I believe that organized now than four years ago, we arc approaching other areas... when he easily won the primary where we have greater opportuni­with a shade ov('r SO percent of the ties than we have ahd in the states vote in a divided field. where we have been campaigning 
There arc six names on the so far." Dcmonatic ballot this time, too, Reagan will have to fashion a 

M.my Notre Doters and Smic-types flocked South for break. South Bend, meanwhile, threw a snow storm, and a good time was had by all. See page 5 for story and photos about the senior class' 
Bahamas trip. (Photo by Erik jardstrom) 




The annual Multiple Sclerosis Dance Marathon will start soon. See Student Government or the Ombudsman for registration forms. (Photo by Zenon Bidzinski) 
~On Campus Toda!J'­
12 15 p.m. --in house lecture, "the celtic mode in modern poetry" by prof. sean golden, room 220 O'shaughnessy. sponsored by english dept. 
12:15 p.m. --mass, Iafortune ballroom. 
1:30pm. --seminar, "alloys as catalysts" by dr. j.j. burton, conference room, radiation research bldg. 
3:30p.m. --computer course, "p1/1," room 115 computer center-mathematics bldg. 
4 p.m. --colloquium, "early intervention: research and reha­bilitation programs for the culturally disadvantaged" b y dr. craig romy, child development center, univ. of north carolina, room 119 haggar hall. sponsored by psychology dept. 
4 p.m. --lecture, "frogs: shortages and blood parasites" by dr. norman levine, univ. of illinois-urbana. room 278 galvin aud. sponsored by biology dept. and parasitology training program. 
4:30p.m. --lecture, "the new development economics" by james weaver, visiting professor, u.s. agency for international development. library aud. or lounge. sponsored by economics dept. 
7:30 p.m. --meeting, charismatic prayer meeting, Iafortune rathskellar. 
8 p.m. --lecture, the vietnam amnesty program by larry baskir, general counsel to the amnesty board, library aud. 
8 p.m. & --film, "the devil is a woman" engineering aud, 10 p.m sponsored by cinema '76, tickets $1. 
9:30p.m. --meeting, an tostal committee, Iafortune aud. 
midnight --"album hour," wsnd 640 am, a top new album will be featured. 
12:15 a.m. --"nocturne night flight," wsnd 88.9 fm, the best in progressive rock, jazz and blues. tonight's host: dave 
Multiple Sclerosis benefit 

Dance-a-than begins March 26 
by Cathy Nolan Staff Reporter 

Any frustrated dancer who has ever dreamed of being another Fred Astaire Ol' Ginger Rogers will have the chance to display his talents this weekend at the South Bend Multiple Sclerosis Dance-a­thon. It will be held in the LaFortune Ballroom beginning Fri­day March 26 at 8 p.m., continuing until 6 p.m., Sunday March 28. 
The Dance-a-thon is open to all Notre Dame and St. Mary's stu­dents as well as anyone in the Michiana area. All couples must be sponsored by an organization such as a school or club. An organization may sponsor more than one couple. 
The registration fee per couple is .$5.00. The sponsoring organiza­tion may contribute by making a straight donation or by pledging a certain amount of money per hour. 
Meals for the couples have been donated by various restaurants in the Michiana region, including the Ponderosa Steak House, Dunkin Donuts, Burger King and McDon­ald's. The food will be served to the couples on the dance floor. Couples will be expected to con­tinue dancing while they eat and drink. 
Music will be provided by seve­
ral bands. According to Social 
Commissioner Charlie Noran, the 
commission has already obtained 
three bands and hopes to have at 
least four or five perform through­
out the weekend. WSND will also 
be on hand to broadcast portions of 
the dance and to provide records. 
A prize will be awarded to the 
winning couple. The prize has not 
yet been determined. but will 
probably be a gift certificate. "The 
whole purpose of the dance-a-thon 
is to raise money for multiple 
sclerosis, not to win a prize," 
Moran stated. The couple who has 
collected the most money and is 
still dancing at 6 p.m. on Sunday 
will be designated the winner. 
The participants must observe 
several rules. The couples must 
remain on the dance floor during 
the three-hour dance period. The 
couples are allowed a 20-minute 
break after the three-hour dancing 
period. Violation of these rules will 
result in the couple's disqualifica­
tion from the Dance-a-thon. 

Cots will be provided for the 
dancers. The couples will be 
allowed to sleep four hours each 
night, from 3 a.m. to 7 a.m. 

The Observer is pub I ished N'onday through R-iday and weekly during the surrmer session, except during the exams and vacation periods. The Observer is pub I ished by the students of the Univ. of Notre Dame and St. M;yy's College. Subsa-iptions may be purchased for $18 ($10 per semester) fro-n The Observer, Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Secnnd Class postage paid, Notre Dame, IN 46556. 
The contestants must complete a Admission for non-participants is registration form and sign a health free. "If anyone wants to come release statement to participate. over and watch or dance, they are The forms are available in the always welcome," Moran com­Student Government and Ombud­mented. "The Dance-a-thon can sman offices. The forms, along be more than just a fund-raising with the $5.00 fee, must be turned project. It can also be considered a in by 4 p.m. Friday March 26. social activity," he said. 
I 
tSir Richard's 
BARBER STYLING 

~~~~~-------­
UNISEX HAIR STYLING 
129 DIXIEWAY SOUTH ROSEtAND IN PORTAGE R£ALTY BUILDING 277..0734 


SPECIAL SPRING SALE 
AULT CAMERA CO. 
n S . MICHIGAN SOUTH BEND 




a lenten talk on 
FR. JIM BURTCHAELL, CSC FARLEY HALL CHAPEL 
WEDNESDAY, MAFICH 24 
10 P.M. 
celebration of mass following the talk and discussion 
The talk will be repeated 
next Wednesday in 
Morrissey Hall Chapel. 


~----~ 
Tuesday, March23, 1976 the observer 



King Sr. to speak on campus 

At 5 cents a cone who could resist the Huddle's Happy Hour? From 6-8 p.m. students sampled the 32 flavors now offered. (Photo by Mike Kron) 
Christians step down 
HEIIWT. Lebanon (APl -Lehan­Police said nearly 2.000 rounds C~l' politicians agreed on a face-sa­were fired in the Christian barrage ving resignation formula for the and withering responses by Mos­ddiant Christian president Mon­lem mortar and artillerv batteries, dav a~ Chri~tian and Moslem lighting the early morning sky and gu.nnwn fought the heaviest artil­sending people running for cover 
Rev. Martin Luther King Sr. will Invitations have been extended to School. Hesburgh and Link arc participate in a memorial program several of his fellow leaders in the co-sponsors with BI.LSA of the for his late son, a noted black rights Southern Christian Leanership program. leader, at the University of Notre movement. Charles CarpenteJ, a second Dame em Sunday, March 28. George Arnold, a membc r of the year law student fr•>m Memphis, Sponsored by Black American Law labor relations staff at the Bendix Tenn., is president ff the Midwest Students Association (BALSA), the Corporation, South Bend, will read Regional of BALSA md general ch program begins at 7 p.m. in Sacred excerpts of some of Re-r. King's airman of the program. A dinner Heart Church. most memorable addres;es. Also for visiting officiah and sponsors 
A feature of the memorial prog­participating will be Rev. Theodore will precede the Sacred Heart ram will be the appearance of M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., the presi­program. The dit.ner will be by several lawyers who were·· associa­dent of the University and former invitation only. The public is ted with Martin Luther King, Jr. head of the U.S. Con1mission on invited to the rec~ption following before his assassination in Mem­Civil Rights, and Dr. D lVid T. Link, the program in the Law School phis, Tenn., on April 4, 1968. dean of the Notre Dame Law Lounge. 
Aviation Officers Wanted 
The Navy needs some ven' special college graduates who aren't afraid to find out how good they really are, who can complete our demanding training program and who can meet the most exciting challenge of their lives. The challenge that leads to an exciting future as a Naval Flight Officer flying in supersonic Jet aircraft. If you think you've got what it takes to be someone special, write or call collect (312) 657-2169. 
Aviation Placement 
NRD Chicago 
Building 41 
NAS Glenview, IL 60026 
ll'l'\' battle of the civil war, infor­llll;d ~outTl'~ said. 
l'rc~idcnt S·.11t'iman Franjich. wllll~l' rc~ignation is d;:mandcd hy leader~ of :1 Moslem army coup and nwtT than two-thirds of the mem· lll'r~ of parliament. participated in till' Cllmpromisc negotiations hut gave no puhlil· promise to abide hy the formula. 
Informed Lcabancsc sources said lmwl•vcr. he pledged to President Hafa; A~~ad of S)Tia to give up his struggle to remain in oflicc after a dl'la.v designed to make it appear he wa~ stepping down of his own accord. 
lkirut radio said rranjieh. a Mar,mite Christian. gave his ac­cord to the rc~ignation scenario at an emergency cabinet meeting with Mo~km Premier Rashid Karami at the Haabda presidential palace east of Hcirut. 
Leftist Moslems fought tierccly to rl'lain Beirut's shell-pocked Hoi· iday Inn hotel. partially reoccupied bv Chmtian militiamen behind a niurdcrous hail of rocket. mortar and artillery lire. 
OK given for Frosh cars 
Notre Dame freshmen arc allow­
l'd to bring tht•ir automobiles back 
to l'ampus after the Spring break 
annoum'l'd .lames A. Roemer. dean 
of students. 
To receive the permission. fresh­men must have attained a 2.0 grade point average for the tirst semes­ter. Also he must have no midsl·mester deficiencies this scm­estt·r. 
The cars must be registered with the Security Department within 48 hours after they arc brought to the campus. Proof of ownership and insurance arc required of the ~tudcnts. 
The Security Department is loca­ted in the Fire Station. opposite the Power Plant on the North QJiad.­
throughout the day. 
~++~ ~~~··TT~···~···
~ ./'I 
: // . NOW OFFERING 10 ~ 15% 
~ /, '\ :t / J ~ DISCOUNTS ON 
.,. l< \
: ( . ~~--~ CASES OF WINE/LIQUOR.
EQUIPMENT 
~ ~~.......~ RENTAL 
100 
HOURS:



! ,,~~·
$6.00 DAY 
MON-SAT



Center 
$8.00 WEEKEND 
~ ~~~z; 
9:30-MIDNIGHT 

• ·I ~:;::::::::::::::::::~ ~ I
~CA TF.RING 
FREE DELIVERY

~ SPEtiALL Y 
KEN'S • DEN 
:TO THE (with $15.00 minimum purchase.) 
~ ND·SMC
--HAIR STYLING -­
~COMMUNITY PHONE: 259-0261 ,..
MEN &WOMEN 
~························•••••+•••••
ACROSS FROM 100 CENTER (LINCOLNWAY WEST IN MISHAWAKA) 
·················~-·­
•
+..w
PHONE 255-6500 
APPOINTMENTS PREFERRED 
·~
+a 
'.f) 
• ~ 
·~ 
.u 
+::3 
100 CENTER COMPLEX

·~ 
0U I UU,JN·INIUI 
.(U
STORAGE TROPICAL 
··~ 
any regular
GENERAL & IOUTIQUE, PlANU'~ DOli.S, GAMES I AMUSEMENTS. FESTIVE DfCOIIATJVE. l'liRSONAl JTEI,\5 1 ~ OFF priced item NOVELTJES. DECOIIATIVE l'lllOWS, WOODENWARE I IOXES .. .. 'SE 1 INCENSE IURNEJIS, CANDlES I CANDLE HOLDERS, SM,.."ote'flet 1.. AC, CESSORJES, IEDSP'READS I SOFT GOOOS, VASF• enS V '). b IELLS, c8 
with this ad. 

DfCOIIATJVE MfTAlWAIE. FJGUIINES I ••i II ott\ \ • ,,<JOD NATUIAl MATERIALS. DECOIIATJVF r· f}.u ~ SU\\~ ...tCOR. WHITE P'ORCELAIN, DINNERW • • \\ '"e \O • q .~tRAMJC MUGS, 
BUSCH® MICHELOB R A&Eagle
SEIVICE ITE.MS, GlA~• " ..,,et \ c...,'\ • • \JIIINK SEIVICE GLASSWARE. •. II\ (.e•• • ~"' SERVICE. l'I.ACEMATS I
J 
'TAILE TOP A\Ov.,ll. ~0\\• ..cl'l UTELSILS. P'OTS I P'ANS, n"''""''"• MISC _NOUSEkEEI'ING I ,dUES. ACCESSOIIES. OAIIDEN TOOLS I SIJP'f'UI!IIt 






;+·····························..·················l 
: Tues. Mar. 23 Thurs. March 25
~'\t UBllA l)p •. 
A Welcome Back Special!! ~IJtf.l(,-Comic strip starts again
l "\.'\\ 
: $.05 Beers 8·9 ···~ ~··· $.25 7&7 Special : 
•. $.50 Drinks All Night Sat. March 27 •. 
Try Our NEW Kosher Dogs + Or Polish Sausage Live entertainment + 
• Workingman's Talisman +
+ Wed. March 24 +
+Another Drink And Drown Party Be sure to check ++A Good Time To Show Off Your Tans Th L"b ' + 
1

+Live entertainment "Workingman's Talisman" . e rary s new remodeling. + 
1··~·············~·····································t. ..~ 
*Tmd.QI2,~~r,ver
Founded Novemoer 3, 1966 
The ObwrvN 1!. published by the students of the Umvers1ty of Notn• Dame and St Mary's College lt doe'> not necessarily reflt>ct tht> pol1ne!> of Pllht>r ln5tltutlon The nt>ws IS reported as an:urah•ly a~d objecl•vely .h po!>sible Ed1tonals represent thP opm1on of a ma1unty ot tht• Edltonal Hoard Comment<~r1es are tht> v1ews of md1v1dual echtor.., Opm1ons. cc~rtoons and rt"gular column!> express thP v1ews of tht>1r .tuthors Column space IS available to all member'> of the community. and lt•tter~ are encoura~wd to promotP the free expre~smn ut vary1ng opm•on!> on campus 
News 283·8001 Busmt•ss 283·7471 
Bu..,mt""" M,mager Tom Modglin 
Adwrt1..,Hlg Man.lgt'r Tom Whelan 
EDITORIAL BOARD 

Thomas O'Neil E::d1tor-m-Ch•et 
D.1n Sanchez Mdndglng Editor 
Gregg Ban~'> ExecutiVE' Ed1tor 
Val Zurbl1s Execut1ve Editor Pat Ha.ndm Fdltonal Editor Bob MadPr Executive New::. Editor Maureen Flynn Campus Fd1tor Marti Hogan St Mary'::. Ed1tor Uon RP1mer Copy Editor 
11m O'Redt>y h•atures Editor rred Hl3 rb~t Sports Editor Mary Egan Contnhutmg Ed1tor 
Tuesday, March 23, 1976 
P.O. Box Q 
The Dean Obiects 

Dear Editor: 
I take exception to the fact that The Observer has printed an interview with an individual in this community and has publicly lab­eled him as a homosexual. I believe that this public identifica­tion is wrong and is harmful to such an individual despite the fact that the individual freely chose to be so identified. 
I think that this kind of labeling will harmfully affect a person's relationships with many members of the entire community since they will tend to see that person as a homosexual rather than the total person he is. 
In the current March issue of Psychology Today, Dr. Sagarin states that, ''The ultimate freedom of a human being is to become what he chooses and wishes to become, restrained only by forces that are genuinely beyond his control. There is no alcoholic. heterosexual. ur homosexual identity. There are only people who behaYe in a given manner, at times of their lives, in some cases over an entire lifetime. The behavior is real, but the identity is an invention. It is an invention believed in so thoroughly by some people that they have become what they were improperly tagged as being.'' In the opinion of Dr. Sagarin, it would "offer infini­tely greater freedom of choice to individuals in their development, if our language implied change, or at least changeability, rather than permanence and immutability." 
The author also notes that War­dell Pomeroy wrote about the early work at the Institute for Sex Research. "In Kinsey's files were records ... of more than eighty cases of men who made a satisfactory heterosexual adjustment which ei­ther accompanied or largely re­placed earlier homosexual experi­ence." 
People do change. Labels make it very difficult for them to do so. 
The Observer article plants too strong a brand on such an individ­ual in all his relationships in a community. I regret that The Observer did not show more con­cern. 
James A. Roemer 
Dean of Students 
Thanks from Udall 
Dear Editor: 

We would like to thank all those at the Mock Political Convention who supported Morris Udall with both time and effort. We appreci­ate very much the interest shown in him and the effort expended in trying to get Udall nominated. 
Naturally, we are disappointed that he did not emerge as this convention's nominee, yet we are proud of his overall showing. If nothing else, we got people looking at him, which was one of our primary goals in this convention. 
Once again, we would like to thank all those who supported Udall, and the convention in gen­eral. It was good to see people get actively involved in the politics of 1976. 
Scott Brinkman Laura Campbell 
A Great Convention 
Dear Editor: 

I would like to take this opportu­nity to publicly thank Vinnie Mos­chella, Nancy Brenner, and the entire Executive Committee for bringing to the Notre Dame cam­pus the recently concluded Notre Dame Mock Political Convention. I found this four-day event to be one of the most educational, enjoyable, and enriching experiences I have had i• my three years at Notre Dame. 
Since the Mock Convention oc­curs only once every four years, the convention organizers had virtually no experienced hands to rely on for guidance in setting up such a large-scale project. However, through their ingenuity, perserver­ence, and endless hours of hard work, the convention was a huge success 
In conclusion, I would once again like to express my sincerest thanks to this small dedicated group of individuals, and only wish Notre Dame had more events and student of this kind. 
Michael Pesce 
Hubie's the Best 
Dear Editor: 
What happened at the Mock Political Convention last Friday night has been recounted many times: Hubert Humphrey was no­minated at a late hour as a compromise candidate. 
Well. I am one person who voted for HHH, and not merely because of the time. To me, he w~s a much better choice than Udall. Carter or Brown and so he got my vote. He is not too old, contrary to what backers of other candidates said. he is electable, and he has a solid background in the political world. 
No one knows how many people moved away from the Humphrey vote when it became apparent on the first few ballots that he didn't have sufficient appeal to capture the nomination, but I for one think that the convf'ntion acted wisely in nominating him. 
The reason may indeed have been the lateness of the hour, but I think that Humphrey is more than a compromise candidate. he is the best possible candidate for the job and I sincerely hope that the Democratic Party realizes this when it holds its nominating con­vention. 
Carl Oswald 
·• 
.' 


DOONESBURY by Garry Trudeau 

seriously folks~~~~~ 
It Isn't Our Fault 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiaQrt buchwald 
WASHINGTON--Just when I got my latent male chauvinist pig feelings under control the new fashions come out and I'm back to where I started. Last week's cover of Time magazine of a girl in a black bathing suit made me forget the intensive consciousness-rais­ing sessions I had attended all winter. 
The trend for this year, if I understand it, is toward the pajama look with the see-through fabric placed in areas you're not supposed to see. The backs are bare and in many cases the midriffs are exposed. There is even a rain suit that zips down to the nav~l. 
One has to assume that these clothes wouldn't have been designed unless the manufacturers thought women would buy them. And, if this is the -.:-Lse, where do we men who have been trying to stop thinking of women as sex objects stand? 
It is a terrible dilemma and one I don't think the Women's Lib people are facing up to. For example. the other night I went to a dinner party in Washington prepared to behave as the perfect liberated male. I was going to treat my dinner partners as human beings who had minds of their own and opinions on the subjects of the day that should be listened to. 
Unfortunately, the person on my right ws wearing a black net pajama top with a neckline that plunged down to heaven knows where. The blouse was held up by two tiny straps that looked as if they would break at any moment. 
The person on my left was wearing what appeared to be a sheer scarf wrapped in such a way that her bosom was pushed up and out halfway across her soup plate. 
Now you have to admit it's pretty difficult to discuss President Ford's tax-cut plans when you're faced with this kind of situation. 
My heart said,' 'These women have brains. Find out what they're thinking." But my eyes kept wandering down to other areas than their heads. 
I wanted to talk about Jimmy Carter's chances in California, and Scoop Jackson's hopes for New York with the person on my right, but all I kept thinking was, "I wonder what would happen if one of those tiny straps broke while she was reaching for a piece of roast lamb from the tray." 
Then I turned to the person on my left to get such evil thoughts out of my head. I was going to ask her if she thought we should send wheat to Russia but I noticed that the scarf she was wearing had shifted and there was even more cleavage showing than when she sat down. 
I was so ashamed of myself, because I forgot all about Russian wheat which I'm sure she would have been delighted to talk to me about. 
I turned back to the person with the two itty-bitty straps. She had her back to me which was bare all th~ way down to her lower spine. It just didn't seem to be the right time to talk about food stamps. 
"How," I pondered, "can I show these people that I am interested in their minds when I have to little to work with?" would have given anything to have Gloria Steinem at my table to tell me what to do. 
As I looked around the room I noticedthat all the other men were having the same trouble. We were trying to make up for years of injustice and ignorance in our male attitudes toward the opposite sex, and they were doing everything to thwart us. 
God knows we've all ben sinners and most men are trying to change their attitudes toward women. But when you have nothing but hare backs and cleavage ~o stare. at ducing.dinner, how on earth cah any ma.n keep his mind on Henry· Kissinger? .....•.•.•.· •..... • '·' '·' , • 
--------------.. 

• 
Yeshhh...... . A Good Time Was Had 

By All. 
Photos by Mike Kron 
Grab yourself a snack Biking to out of the way spots 
by John Pandoll1 round-trip transportation ami hotel accommodations on the island.

Staff Reporter Many of the seniors took advan­A Hum and Swizzle party wel­tage of motorbike tours. which comed the 250 Notre Dame and came to be one of the most popular Saint Mary's seniors who made this activities on the island. Popular too year's jaunt to the Bah,jimas. It was were sailing. snorkelling and a felicitous start for what turned horseback riding. while the week's out to be a very fine week-long constant sunshine provided perfect vacation. weather for sunbathing and swim­The $285 package included ming. Night life proved to be all the seniors had expected it to be: "Sultan's Tent" and "Casino" were two of the most visited night spots. Most said they spent between $120 and $200 during their stay. Much of this money changed hands Gambling around the clock
at the International Bazaar, where a large number of imports were sold. and where the most purchas­ed item for visiting Domers was the straw hat. 
The senior contingent celebrated St. Patrick's Day in typical Irish fashion by thrnwing a party at a hotel poolside, where a band played from 9 o'clock 'til midnight. 
Seniors agreed <>t vacation's end that the trip had been well worth the cxpcn~c. and not simply be­cause they had spent it in the Hahamas. "You could have put us all in the Sahara Desert." said one enthusiastic senio;·, "and we still 

St I'.Jtty's D<~y would have had a fantastic trip." Secluded Taino beach 



You have something to share with the people of the rural South and Appalachia-yourself. Find out about the opportunities open to you as a Glenmary Prif'.st, Brother or Sister. 

For tre'1 Information about OPP')r­tunities with Glenmary Home 1'\11is­sioners. write GLENMARV. Room 132 Box 46404 Cincinnati. Ohio 45246 
0 Also please send free 17" x 22" God Made Me Poster. Shown Above 
0 Send free poster only. 
Name----------­
Address________ 
City·______state·---­
ZiP----_..,..-Age_____ 

Mechanical and civil engineering offering full scholarships. All offering majors ... aerospace and aeronautical $100 a month allowance during the last engineering majors ... majors in elec­two years of the program. Flying oppor­tronics ... computer science ... mathe­tunities. And all leading to an Air Force matics. officer's commission, plus advanced 
The Air Force needs people ... many education. with the above academic majors. And If you'd like to cash in on these Air AFROTC has several different pro­Force benefits, start by looking into the grams where you can fit ... 4-year, Air Force ROTC. 3-year, or 2-year programs. Some 
CONTACT: CAPT. M. l. STOCKDALE ASST. PROFESSOR OF AEROSPACE STUDIES. 283-6635 
-'~<~.· -~ Put it all together in Air Force ROTC ... ,..,~.;,_. 
•!)')''; ~i--~·: ·;·i 1'. ·:·I'L·.!J.L~-;t.!,;f·:.,.··~..J..:.!........:..·~··:..:.;··~·~~-'..;."..;.·--------:----------::::::-:-::-::-::-::-::-----------------....J 
..~..,~~---·--.aAAr"' .-.-~­

•. ...................t
6 the observer Tuesday, March 23, 1976 
=~~~~'~'=nTh~~~ ~~,,~~•~m;~~.~.;.~,~~~ I 141 i
al matching funds faucet turned off Gov. George C. Wallace of Alaba-nwney. • • for presidential condidates Monday rna, who has received $2.79 milli-In addition to candidate funds. • WORLD'S GREATEST PIZZA • 
with a final million-dollar splash as on. President Ford, Ronald Reag-the FEC had earlier awarded Congress ll'issed a Supreme Court an, Sen. Henry M. Jackson and SRoO.OOO to the Democratic Nation-• 
deadline for reconstituting the jimmy Carter each received bet-a! Committee for its national con-• Federal Election Commission ween $1 million and $2 million. vcntion and $750,000 to the Repub­(FEC). In order to qualify, candidates lican National Committee for its • 
Hm\ long the infusion of govern-had to raise $5000 in donations of convention. ment money into primary camp-$250 or less in each of 20 states. Each party is entitled to $2.18 • aigns might be held up depends Then all donations of $250 or less, million, but can't now collect any • 1ww on when--or whether--Congr-including that first $100.000, were more until the FEC is reconstitut­c·~s and President Ford agree on eligible for dollar-for-dollar match-ed. Since each is dependent on the •• legislation rewriting federal elec-ing. funds for financing its convention, tion law. While congress works on revis-a lengthy delay could throw arran-The court. after ruling Jan. 30 ing the law, the commission will gements into a late scramble. • that the FEC was unconstitutional-continue to accept and do staff In the general election, each I~· appointed. twice gave Congress work on matching fund applications major party is to receive $21.82 • a chance to pass new legislation. so that final certification can be million for its candidate's cam-• Attempts at simple revision of the made with as little delay as paign on condition that no private law bogged down in disputes over possible at such time as the funds be used. • 
:~l:;~~l~~e:;~;:~;~~:;~~:no~~!~allysig-Recent Supreme Court .• 
tkadline ticked awav. no motion for 
As the final hours before the 

decisions QO 'tOO far' :
further extension had been filed. And simply from a procedural '>landpoint. Congress couldn't act • 
before midnight Monday. by Pat Hanifin strong terms for taking on "issues 
The Democratic National Com-Editorial Editor crying for redress" such as racial : mittee and the campaign commit-discrimination. legislative reappor­lt'l'> of sc\·cn Democratic presiden-The Supreme Court is the great-tionment and criminal justice. The tial aspirants asked the Supreme est safeguard of liberty but some of legislative and executive branches • 
Ct,urt mondav afternoon to extend its recent decisions have gone too refused to act so the court had to • ItS previous order to April 21. far. said Prof. Henry J. Abraham. step in to protect constitutional A court official said there was a one of the nation's leading experts rights." • yue'>tion whether the committees on the Supreme Court, during a According to Abraham the Bur-• had legal ~tanding to make such a lecture.. ger Court, despite its conservative • request, since they were not parties In the speech, which was given image, has continued the activist tn the original suit challenging the to a small audience in the Civil trend of the Warren Era except in • c·ampaign act. Rights Reading Room at the Law the area of rights for criminal • The question was expected to be School, Abraham discussed the suspects. decided after the Court had an role of the Court in drawing lines This is particularly notable in the • opportunity to review the papers between claims of society and abortion decision, in decisions re­-..uhmitted by the committees. claims of the individual. lated to welfare and poverty, and in • The commission and its staff will "The Court's role is 'line-draw-the expansion of the equal protec-• remain in business performing ing' which involves legal, govern-tion clause to almost totally ban 
.various informational, record-keep-mental and political responsibili-legislation using "suspect categor-• ing and compliance functions not ties. It is the arbiter of minority ies" such as race and possibly '>Cx. • barred by the court ruling. rights and of liberty under law," he 
The holdup in matching funds explained. • will be the most immediate change Abraham strongly defended the An TOSfB/ 0 
resulting from the commission's Court against charges that it makes 
gr Up 

new status. laws and sets wide-ranging social f f f • hf In a final special certification policies under the guise of deciding 
0 mee Onlg

meeting before the deadline, the cases. "I don't know how to draw There will be a meeting for the
c·ommission awarded $980.266 to the line between legislating and An Tostal committee tonight at12 candidates. That brought the adjudicating,'' he said. ''To judge 9:30 p.m. in the LaFortune Thea­total awarded so far this year to is to legislate and to legislate is to ter. All members are encouraged$12.62 million. shared by 14 candi-judge." 
to attend.
jates. He 
~······~·····~· 
r_.·-!here IS a •._ : difference!!! : 
• lfiiiWNlfE flllOif e : MCAT o.rr )!)'"" : 
e olflf)tlotnct • 
: DAT •
MIIU!CIU 
•
: LSAT :
SNIIclmn 
Volur""IOUI hooftt
•. GRE • • 
: GMAT ''"ely;'''"'1' : 
: Q(AT :
Courm lhllllr
• (pAT 
<OOI!Infly updl!td :
•
•. VAT hpl !Krlo!ou !or • 
rn!IWI of CIIU e
: SAT 
leuons 1nd lor uu e
• FLEX of suppltmrnhry e
'"'''"'t' . • : E ( F M G M••• :PI lor : 
• mourd lruons : 
: NATlMEDBDS: : NAT'L DENT BDS ; 
• Moll class.e1 start 8 Wflt!kl • • pr1or to Exam • e Sprong & Foil compacll • 
: Some courset offered on e 
• Ma1cH CampuMl\ e 
: INDIANAPOLIS : 
• 6620 GreenthHe Dr•ve e e lndo1n•pol11, lnd 46220 e • 13171 842-1267 : 

: CHICAGO CENTER • !Jhe :Jiutjtle. irulf lun:djZJIJn • (3121 764-5151 • 
r})t/w bean r:.J r'((Jt:erl ,_,.:;~, ;i/mlinrl
=~-tt!: :Jtl7!M'. '///1"' l.i~,-nch (·hat~n, 126'.
iUPIAN : (/" 
OPEN J1 00 A A W • 
: .M. -7 DAYS EEK • BACK AGAIN! SHAKEY'S FAMOUS • 
BUNCH OF LUNCH • 
11 A.M. to 1:30 P.M. 7 Days a Week : 
p· Ch" k S • S 1 d 
IZZa • IC en • paghetll • a a 
• 
All You $21 6 Ages 10 • 
Care to Plus and Under 
Eat! Tax 20c per year • • 
• 
7 FT. COLOR TV : [ BEER ON SUNDAYS : 
• • 
SHAKEY'S FAMOUS 
SUPER SUPPER • • •
5 to 7:30 Mon. • Tues•• Wed. 
• 
Pizza • Chicken • Spaghetti • Salad • 
All You $216 
Care to Plus Ages 10 • 
and Under • Eat! Tax 20c per year • 
323 E. IRELAND RD. 
291-7500 • 
• 
2313 EDISON RD• 
289-5555 • 
• 


SHA NANA 
WITH SPECIAL GUESTS 
ACE 

AND MARTIN MULL 
MONDAY APRIL 5, 

7:30 P.M. AT THE ACC 
: EDUCATIONAL CENTflli : 
t(Sl "''I!UIAIIJAHOH • \IIICIALISl!J 51Nr( 11• • 
TICKETS GO ON SALE
• ,.,• ._, ___,_., IIlii • 
• 12121,..... • 

TIFFANY&Co. TOMORROW AT 9:00A.M. AT
•·•"'<P'el " "••or v~ ":·•••• 

: MCAT SOON: CHICAGO ACC & STUDENT UNION 
715 NORTH MICHIGAN AVENUE • ZIP: 60611 • TEL: (312) 944-7506 
Add two dollars tor shipping and handling plus sales tax where applicable ~ ·.. .. .~ '' . ..' .
·:::.','.'.'' .. .-$5, $4, & $3 
....... .... '!., ...... ,.". 

, ,. . · American Express • BankAmericard
i--~~~~t~r.~~.:~-4' 
-·, 


Sponsored by SMC 
Natural art course offered 
by Marjorie lrr Staff Reporter 

Docs a two-week session of 
intensive art work after spring 
finals sound like a fun start for 
summer vacation'? It will be for the 
40 students and four instructors 
from St. Mary's College who will 
attend the Second Annual Red Bud 
Trail Workshop ncar Buchanan, 
Michigan from May 17-29. 
Jim Raymo of St. Mary·~ art department desl-ribcs Red Bud as an art work~hop in a camp setting ''with students and faculty living and working together in close harmony with natun·." "This approach offers an alternative to the classroom learning situation." hL" adds. 
Raymo detailed the format of Hed Bud. "There was four areas of Ullll'l'ntration: raku ceramics. nat­ure photography. drawing and painting and fibre and natural dyeing." Raymo said. Each stud­l"nt chooses an area and spends two weeks involved in it. Last sum­mL"r' s workshop allowed only one area of conL·cntration. 
"This summer. there won't be 
the real stiff categories." Raymo 
stated. "We'll open up to combine 
the a~~as and offer intermediary 
work. 
Ficldtrips, films and visiting artists provide a variety of topics for the group discussions included in the workshop. At the end of the session. the participants will hold an exhibit in the camp. 
According to Jim Paradis, assoc­iate professor of art at St. Mary's, Raymo is responsible for originat­ing the Red Bud Workshop. Kate McDonnell. Moreau Art Gallery director, is this year's program director. Instructors at the upcom­ing session will be: McDonnell, Raymo. Paradis and Jean Battles. Ten students will be accepted into each of the four areas. 
According to last year's partici­pants. the Red Bud Workshop is both rewarding and fun. "They were two of the most productive weeks in the four years I've been here." said Debbie Gits. a senior art major at St. Mary's. Gits is returning this year "just for the experience." 
Raymo noted that he has seen 

Fiberboard houses provide 
shelter for quake victims 
(l"ontinucd from page I) 
campus where engineering tests and cultural research can be under­taken. The research will be done by the Departments of Architecture and Government and International Studies. 
Housing made of cardboard is not the onlv usc of the material. Storage co;llaincrs for food anci water can he made a!> well. Plcsa said they plan to usc such storage containers in Guatemala. The hous­ing strul"turcs arc made with I x 2 
SMC students start campaingns 
(t"ontinucd from page I) able to pa~~ these changes on to the 'tudcnh bl'forc it'~ too late." Stolle, who is running for vice­president for student affairs. com­mL·ntcd on her reasons for choosing to run. "I want to try to generate 'orne enthusia~m. Instead of silting bad and not doing any­thing. I hope I can motivate somebody somewhere. I want to motivate some action on campus." she remarked. Stolze. acting Regina Hall presi­dent. asserted. "I intend to make su1T that I am aware of what the 'tudents want done by keeping close wntact with the hall and class 
councils. and to make sure they know what's going on by distribut­ing ·~.calendar of events to every­
one. 
All three candidates stated that they're willing to work. "We thought it over carefully," Bilek said. "Student government is my priority for the next year. It was a decision I had to make." 
meter panels of corrugated board stapled together with large. heavy dut~· staple guns. Four persons can assemble a single unit in one hour. 
The foundation docs not sell the housing units and the Guatemala trip will hn11g no profit. It is DeLine who is the foundation's only source of tinancial support. DeL-ine has provided the fund~ for transporta­tion costs and has donated a shipment of cardboard panels. 
Another major project is being undertaken by the foundation in May whcr. a demonstration village will be set up at the United Nations Habitat Confcrenct> in Vancouver. British Columbia. 
send your letters to: 

great progress in freshmen. "With an intensive situation like that, beginning students can push farther than they can in the whole semester," he observed. 
The camp is at the Red Bud Trail Retreat owned by the First Presby­terian Church of South Bend. It is located on the St. Joseph River in what Raymo termed "a very nat­ural environment." 
"It's primitive. but adequate," Raymo added. "When the artists are not hard at work, they're hard at play. Various sports and activit­ies are a part of the camp." 
Through the Red Bud Workshop. a student earns three credits. Tuition. room and board cost $270. The work is intensive and Raymo said that students can be found working at all hours. "We found that people worked much more than the required hours," he said. "The different situation made people want to work." While participants need not be art majors. Ravmo said that the amount of woi·k might be difficult to maintain for non-majors. 
The natural surroundings of the camp arc essential to the types of work done at Red Bud. Kate McDonnell explained that the students actually usc what they lind in the environment. "They go out and dig the clay from the earth for ceramics.·· McDonnell said. "They pick berries to usc as dye for fibre and natural dyeing." 
Haymo said the workshop in the outdoors is "an attempt to place ourselves in the immediate envir­onment we're working with." 
·'The c~vcryday class situation is an unnatural one. It makes more sense to get into nature.'' Raymo noted. "With everybody getting together. there's a real sense of community and from that, there is a natural ilow of creative energy." 
McDonnell urged interested students to apply. Applications and a downpaymcnt of $25.00 arc due by March 24. For more information <·;II McDonnell at 5717 at St. Mary's. 
Dear Clytemnestra 
Tuesday, March 23, 1976 the observer 
Classified Ads 
NOTICES 

Will do typing, experienced.  Term  
papers,  manuscripts,  etc.  Call  
233 ·8512.  

Papers professionally and promptly typed. IBM Selectric II and com­plete typing service. Call 277-2922. 
FOR RENT 

Furnished houses two to seven bedroom, available tor September or June. Call 234-9364. 
LOST AND FOUND 
Reward for return of Vivitar flash attachment lost Sat., Feb. 21. Call 6834 or 1715. 
PERSONALS 
Concert--March 27--0'Laughtin Au­ditorium--a :00 P.M.--Students St. We Together Singers of South Bend plus Faith Unlimited from Canada and Spirit, Inc. from Iowa will share their gift of song_ Join us. 
Countess, It is good to be back with royally. The good news is in, so let's celebrate. The steak is my treat this 
time. The Baron 
A ttenfion Bahamians with Dirty 
Laundry: Contact the Biz Bag, in care of lnila Drink, Room 213, Castaways 
Bahama Mama, Thanks! 11 was real. 


La Gala Guggenheim! 1976 Beaux Arts Ball, Architecture Building, Saturday March 27, 9 p.m.-3p.m., music by Stratus, tickets available in Arkie Library, $5 per couple, $3 single DECADENT! 
Joanne, 
Well you finally made it to the big one! Happy21sl! Yourroomie 
Knights of Columbus Meeting tonite at 10:00 P.M. 
THE POSTER PLACE  
=  =  
~ 5 §= ~  100 11x17 POSTERS only $10.00 insty-prints  ~ 5i = ~  
§!  203 N. MAIN ST. SOUTH BEND 289-6977  ~ !  

..JIHDIIJJIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIll;fiiiiHIIIIII......_IIIIDihllllllllllldlfillllillllllllll!
I I 
SiliiiliiiiiiiiiiiiiUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHII..IIHIIIHYIIIIillillllldllllllldllllllliE 
~~~~~~ ......._.~~ ....... ---~~..-..--....-. .... 
f.RMANDO IS NOW LOCATED NEAR CAMPUSf tTO GIVE YOU THE CUl OR STYLE YOU WAN"rl 
! 
.:::::4-'lm.w._fo'j_ 3,nL~.::'l ¢:.-i" _1/<~i'l ._2,~i_t;L~ ___)';;._,/!. f! 
vPENSIXDAYSAWEEK ' 

M(. THRU FRIDAY B TO 5 :30 '-~TUIHII\\ ll TO 4 
t PERSONALIZED SERVICE t 
'ARMA.N00 FEMIA 143.7 N.IRONWOOO DR j ' PHOr.E 277·06'5 SOUTH BEND INDIANA ' 
tFOR APPOINTMENT f 
;78---------------,;, 
presents I
• .j I I
I 

THE DEVIL IS A WOMAN I
I 
I 

IIMARCH 23 & 24 8 & l 0 P.M. I 
I ENGINEERING AUDITORIUM 
I 

I ADMISSION $1.00 I 
L---------~-----·····-----~ 
A new career for college graduates ... 


Consider your opportunities as a 
LAWYER'S ASSISTANT 
You may qualify for thi~ intensive, 12 week, post-graduate cour~e oHercd by the UNIVERSITY OF SAN DIEGO in cooperation with the National Ccntcr for P,trJicgal rr,tining. 

By spccialiLing in one of the following fields-­Corporations; Litigation; Est,tte~. Tru~b .•md \Vilb; Public Service L,tw; Real E~tdtc ,tnd Mortg,tgc~-­you can prepare yourself for a re~ponsibil' po~ition as a skilled member of the k·gal tc ''1. 
Applications arc now being accepted fur 
Summer, 7976 Fall, 7976 Spriny, 1977 

For Free Brochure--and information rcg,,trding application procedures, program dates, fin.tntial aid, employment opportunities--contact: 
LAWYER'S ASSISTANT PROGRAM UNIVERSITY OF SAN DIEGO Alcala Park 
ill
San Diego, CA 92110 (714) 291-6480 Ext. 247 
SD.. 



--------~---------------------­
8 the observer Tuesday, March 23, 1976 
Irish cagers suffer semi-final blues 
Win thriller over Cincinnati on last second tip; edged by Michigan, 80-76, in Louisville 
by BiU Brink 
Notre Dame in the regional semi-final:. It's like putting Daniel in the lion's den. If they could only let the Irish skip the second game of the NCAA tournament, and play two regional final games, or something like that. Anything! 
For NO coach Digger Phelps and his team it gets more frustrating every year, because for the third straight year they have won their first NCAA tourney contest only to be ousted in the regional sem1-finals. And if you mention the word Michigan around the ACC you really strike a nerve because for the second time in three years the Michigan Wolverines have eliminated the Irish. this time by a score of 80-76 last Thursday night in the Midwest Regional semi-final game in Louisville, Kentucky. 
Two years ago Notre Dame seemed destined for the final four when the Wolves upset John Shumate, Gary Brokaw and co. in Tuscaloosa. Alabama. This year's game was not an upset, but it was a heartbreaker for the Irish. It was particularly distressing because NO had won such a thrilling opening game. edging Cincinnat' 79-78 on Toby Knight's tip-in with 2 seconds left in the game. 
''Michigan played well,·· said a despondent Phelps after the game. "They had two great comebacks. We shot SO per cent, which is good for us, controlled the boards and still lost. That's a tribute to Michigan and their 



aggressiveness. They had a job to do and they did it well.'' 

For Digger Phelps it was disbelief, for Adrian Dantley it was disappointment, and for the IrishNot without some help from the Irish though. The story and their fans it was wait until next year (Photo by Ed Brower)of the game was turnovers. Notre Dame finished with 23 
turnovers, more errors than a freshman calculus test. turnaround and a steal and score by Tom Staton. NO's Don beat his man down the right side. But as he went up the Errant passes. traveling violations and more errant passes Williams, otherwise known as Second-half Duck, began to ball slipped out of his hands, bounced off his chest and killed NO when it counted. In the last several minutes turn in his late-game heroics again. He hit a driving layup rolled out of bounds, dragging Notre Dame's chances of an 
when the Irish were scrapping for the lead it was miscues to bring the Irish within two, 73-72, with 2:20 to go. But NCAA championship along with it. Michigan's Rickywhich sealed their fate. 
MU's John Robinson stole another pass, and though his Green added two free throws to set the final score at 80-76 . ..Our turnovers really hurt us," admitted Phelps. "And breakaway lay-up attempt was blocked, he took a pass The Irish had appeared to take command in the first 
our defense broke down. You just can't hold a good team from trail man Steve Grote to notch a three-point play, half, going up by as much as II points, but Michigan spedlike Michigan down forever. They have good personnel 
making it 76-72 with 1:07 left. up its offense and raced back to within one, 41-40 at and use them well." Duck came right back for the Irish, making it 76-74. ha:Jftime. 
"These kids just never quit," said Wolve coach Johnny Orr of his players. ·'The key things in the game for us were that we played more aggressive defense in the second half and held our own on rebounds--that's pretty good for a bunch of little guys." 
His little guys were also very fast little guys. Several times late in the game they streaked in front of some careless Irish passes and raced down the court for scores. After Adrian Dantley's spinning layup had given the Irish their last lead. 70-69, with 4:04 left in the game, Michigan came back with four straight points on a Phil ~ubbard NO's Dice Martin then stole the ball from Staton, and was fouled on his attempt for the bucket, but he missed the foul shot and Michigan's Steve Grote converted on two free throws to put the Wolves up by four, 78-74 with :27 remaining. Dependable Duck came through again six seconds later, and NO's fierce pressure caused the Wolves to throw the in-bounds pass to Dave Batton. Notre Dame called time out with sixteen ·:~.:onos left, down by two. 

Then came the play which Irish players, coaches and fans must still sec in their nightmares. And it came from, of all people, the Duck. Duck took the in-bounds pass and 
"I've been to three straight regionals and four overall and haven't gotten out of one," lamented Phelps. "Naturally you're always trying to think of ways to improve. You only hope you can find something for the future." 
Part of Notre Dame's future depends on what Adrian Dantley's future is. But the All-American forward says he still hasn't made up his mind. that it's "still SO-SO." 
The Irish finish the season with a 23-6 record, their best record since 1973-74. 
*Observer 
Sports 

Irish fencers' national title hopes pierced, finish third 
by Paul Stevenson finals. Glass lost two bouts S-4 and another 5-S. In the match that was 
The Notre Dame fencing teams tied 5-"5, Glass was edged out by a for the national crown were doused single touch. this past weekend at the NCAA Mike Sullivan of Notre Dame Championship in Pennsylvania. finished third with the sabre. Brian NYU captured the title with 79 Smith of Columbia University cap­pts.. edging out Wayne St. (77 pts.) tured the gold, while Yuri Rabino­and Notre Dame (76 pts.) vich of Wayne State finished 
The Irish. who were undefeated second. Sullivan and Rabinovich going into the NCAA's, performed were tied for second, but Rabino­superbly in seizing third place, only vich retained the standing because a few touches made the difference. of a greater amount of touches 
In previous matches, Notre scored. Dame defeated Wavne State twice Greg Benko of Wayne State took and NYU once (15-12). Once victory the honors with the foil, going over Wayne St. was in the Great virtually undefeated. Benko be­Lakes Tournament. which Notre came the first person to win the Dame won the weekend before the gold for three consecutive years in NCAA's at Notre Dame. NCAA history. Notre Dame's 
"In a regular match. nine team entry. Mike McCahey, who was members are used, three in each outstanding throughout the season, weapon (epee, foil and sabre)," was eliminated in the quarter Head Coach Mike DeCicco stated. finals. "In the finals, each team is only "Mike Sullivan was the man that allowed three representatives, one contributed the most," DeCicco in each weapon. So instead of remarked. "He performed excel­having great depth and a strong lently as a freshman, being in the 
team, as Notre Dame does, a team NCAA's for the first time." must have one outstanding per­Sullivan, Glass, and McCahey former in every division." will all return next year to lead the 
The individual standings were Irish. Foil Captain Mike Sazdanoff extremely close, mattering only by and Sabre Captain Sam DiFiglio mere touches. Randy Eggleton, the will be the only two losses to the epee specialist from the University Irish's starting team. The remain­· of Pennsylvania took the gold ing seven starters will be joined ... medal. The Irish's Tim Glass with the great talent and depth of 
•1· •1•.-•. 1\T,..~,...,... n'ln-lf" fr>nrf"'r<: :1~ 
leers eliminated by Wolves 
utes left. Walsh began the scoring, tally­
by Ernie Torriero Hamilton and Moretto scored 
two more second period goals. In ing on one of the most exciting the final stanza, Don Fairholm gave ANN ARBOR. March I 0-11: In a plays in sports--the forgotte-n pena­Notre Dame a 4-3 lead. DeBol tied lty shot. Walsh received the
prelude of what was to follow a the score once again setting up 
charity shot after he picked up a
week later in basketball. the Notre Hamilton's game winner. 
loose puck near the red line and
Dame hockey team was eliminated IRISH ITEMS: Notre Dame from the WCHA playoffs by Michi­strode toward an expectant Moore. finished up with a 19-17-2 overall When two Wolverines got too close record, their best finish since
gan. 

for comfort, Walsh slowed up and a 1972-73. The Irish were 16-16-2 in
The Wolverines won the series 

Michigan player overreacted trip­
on total goals by a score of 12-7. the WCHA. 
ping Walsh to the ice.
Michigan trounced the Irish the The series featured sensational 
When pia~· resumed with the
first night by an 8-3 margin. Notre goalie play. Robbie Moore made Dame came back to post a S-4 win crowd standing and Moore looking 52 saves in the second game for a the next night. very lonely at the other end of the series total of 88. 
ice, Walsh circled toward the
Indeed it wa~ the first game Michigan went on to Michigan
awaiting goalie. Seconds later,
which sealed the Irish fate. Tech where the Wolves lost the
Walsh faked. Moore held stead­
Michigan's Dan Hoene startled the series after a game delay due to a
fast, and the diminutive center
Irish and goalie John Peterson, snowstorm. Minnesota beat Michi­
lifted the puck over Moore's left sh
scoring a quick goal with just 44 gan State in a close series, winning
oulder.
seconds gone. the finale 7-6, in three overtimes.
Moretto tied the score early in
Alex Pirus came back to knot the Brown and Boston University
the second period, Pirus rekindled
score, ramming home a power-play will represent the East in the
Irish hopes with his 25th goal at
goal at the 3: IS mark . Three NCAA Championships this week in 
the I 0:25 mark and Dufek doused
minutes later, Hoene connected for Denver. Michigan Tech will face
those spirits 32 seconds later,
. his second tally of the period and Brown and Minnesota will tackle
knotting the score at two.
Michigan was up by one after one. Bll. 
Three second period Michigan goals by Pat Hughes, Don Dufek and Angie Moretto, bolted the Wolves to a 5-1 advantage. 
Brian Walsh cut the margin to 5-2 with just 36 seconds remaining. 
Less than a minute into the third stanza, Clark Hamilton belted a line drive past a surprised Robbie Moore and suddenly Notre Dame was just two goals down. 
But Michigan exploded for three more goals. Moretto got one after Peterson was hounded by a barrage of Wolverine shots. Kris Manery added another less than a minute later and Dave DeBol capped off the night's scoring after stealing the puck and waltzing in alone on Peterson. 
Nofre Dame entered the second night of play with the unenviable task of trying to outscore the hometown Wolves by five goals or more. Though they lost the war, the Irish won that last battle, S-4. 
The game was tied on four .~;ff,..~"nt nrr~~ion<; until Hamilton 








