Closing the club: 
There were parties there 
once... 
by Drew J. Bauer Staff Reporter above his head. ''Alright, what is the bid for this, the carved Boule­vard Room plaque." Below the man, the crowd continued in its tide, going from one box to the other, looking at the merchandise and then moving onto the next. 

"This was once a great club," said Albert Harres, maitre d' at the Indiana Club for eight years until it closed in March, 1975 due to financial difficulties. "It was the oldest chartered club in Indiana, founded in 1893. All kinds of people made their way through these doors." 
Albert worked for 27 years at the club, starting first as an extra to help at the big banquets and later becoming a full time waiter. "We had a monopoly on big banquets for a long time, all different kinds of people. We were really booming in the 40's. We had a lot of famous people here: Bob Hope, Ronald Reagan, Pat O'Brian, George Jes­se! -they all performed here.'' 
AI made his way out of the 

There were parties there once when shafts of light scattered from the club's windows, lighting up the sidewalks with the dancing anima­tion of gay colors tinted slightly with the faint and incresent music that slowly drifted out on the warm summer evenings. The orderly rows of limousines would empty their sparkling cargo of silver ladies in white gloves and large hats and bronzed gentlemen in black ties and close-cropped hair. The small and laughing groups would sweep their way gently into the ballroom to spend an evening under the two golden chandeliers. 
The crowd that went to South Bend's Indiana Club yesterday was a different crowd from those of yesteryear. Yesterday's crowd was big. jousting and moisy, making its way like a river into the old and run-down ballroom for the first day of the two-day auctioning of the club. 
A man stood in the middle of the chaos holding a prized object far 
---------~--------------------------------.,.. 
•1 
ballroom and entered the lounge. There were deep set sofas and easy chairs, old murals decorated in autumn colors and portraits of old sullen-faced gentlemen on the wall 
"Reagan was here cour1esy of the G. E. Theatre. This was when he was an actor, not a politician. We have had all kinds of politicians here. Bobby Kennedy when he was running for president came here and then he went next door to talk to a bunch of kids from Notre Dame and Purdue. I took him some food so that he would have some­thing to eat. What's-his-name was here too, that guy who ran in 1964. Goldwater -yeah, Goldwater. He ate here. And when President Ford ate at Notre Dame a couple of years ago, he ate at one of our tables. Notre Dame asked us if we had a certain size table, and we did. So that's what Ford Ate at." 
AI left the lounge and went upstairs, past the private dining room for the members and into a small paneled room full of oak tables. 
''The members used to eat lunch here while playing cards. They had those little white buttons near the tables so that they could call the waiters anytime they needed them." 
''I was an honorary member of all the ladies~ bridge clubs here. They used to have only 79 members so that everytime they played, they would get men and I would fill in as the extra, moving among all the tables. 
''And these,'' AI said as he pointed to some framed card hands on the walls, "These are perfect cribbage hands. Four fives and a jack. They are going to auction these off too. I don't know who would want to buv these kinds of 
things." · 

''Are we going to sell every­thing?Of course we arP. l' :hen· a tomorrow?" Col. Dun i..:ambL)l of the Midwest Auction Service 
(continued on page 4) 



server 
")/7 an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's 'vol. IX, No.l9-Monday, September 27, 1976 

Th~ fighting Irish football team closed out the Northwestern series with a convincing 48-0 victory over the Wildcats. For details, see page 8. (Photo by Tony Chifari) 
Pig fracas still goes on; students speak with Price 
by Jim Bowler registered with the Observer and Staff Reporter Price himself. Tom Soma. director of the Food ·Services Advisory Council, and one
Several concerned students will 

of the students who will attend the
meet this afternoon with Mr. 
meeting. said that. "Mr. Price
Edmund Price. Director of Notre 
wants to meet with the students
Dame food services. to discuss 
and clear up the issue."
student reaction to the halting of 
Originally the council planned to
free garbage removal by a local 
address the problem at their first 

farmer. 
The controversy began a few weeks ago, when Price announced that George Brown, a Michigan pig farmer, could no longer make his daily visits to the dining halls. For 10 years, at no cost to the University. Brown hauled away non-consumable food to feed his pigs. Student reaction against Price's decision was extremely strong. as letters of protest were 
On Mississippi riverboat 

Ford campaigns in South 
by Barbara Breitenstein Senior Staff Reporter 
In the first major travelling effort of his campaign. President Ford toured the Mississippi by riverboat Saturday. stressing tax reform. and contesting Jimmy Carter in his native South. 
The President campaigned along the levees at several river landings during the seven-hour cruise, stat­ing '"We're coming down here to prove that we want the South to be with us." 
Ford said his trip into the Deep South is intended to demonstrate that he is a national candidate and that he is not conceding any section of the country. according to an Associated Press (A P) story by Dave Rilcv. "I don't concede a single vote." Ford said. declaring that he believes it is now possible he will det'eat Carter in all 50 states. 
"It's our distinct impression that we are on a big upswing." Ford said. "We're going to do better and better.'· 
The President and Mrs. Ford flew to New Orleans Saturday to board the Natchez. a stern-wheel riverboat. in which he made the first paddlestop campaign of mo­dern times. Crowds of several thousand people met Ford at ea~;h stop. 
"Nov. 2 is a very critical date," Ford told the people ,at Destrehan, La. ·'It makes the difference whether America is going to keep moving forward. I want your vote on that day so America will keep moving .. .'' 
"We're going to keep America No. 1. period," Ford promised, calling for strong national security. 
On the issue of tax reform, Ford repeated his recurring theme of reduced federal spending through tax cuts and "tax reform that makes sense--makes sense to you.'' 
"This President believes the federal government spends too much money," Ford stated. He continued that, if elected, "we will recommend another tax reduction" next year. 
After his riverboat excursion, which ended in New Orleans, Ford was to have travelled to Mobile, Ala .. by motorcade through Louisi­ana, Mississippi and part of Ala­bama. 
Ford was then to have met with former Governor George Wallace 
Student Government allocates $87300 
by Tim Creagan Staff Reporter 
Yesterday, in a nine-hour meeting in LaFortune Student Center, a Student Government Committee allocated funds for twenty-two clubs and organizations on campus 
The bulk of the $87,300 allocated went to the Student Union, $51 ,000; the Student Government, $18,200; and the Hall President's Co~ncil, $12,100. 
'The remaining $6,000 went to the following organizations: 
Baltic............................................................................$50 Celtic Club .....................................................................$50 C.l.L.A......................................................................$1000 
World Hunger.............................................................$250 Community....................................................................$35 WSND........................................................................$700 
A.I.A. (Architecture)........................................................$25 
I.E. E. E. (Engineering).....................................................$50 Mecha (Spanish-American Club).....................................5350 Karate Club...................................................................550 Tae Kwon Do Club (Karate) ...............................................$50 
Sociology Club ..............................................................$100 Neighborhood Study help Group....................................$1000 Dancing Irish...................................................:............$300 Black Cultural Arts.......................,................................$800 
International Students Union...........................................5950 Finance Club ...................................·...............................S25 Circle K.......................................................................$115 , Sailing Club.................................................................5100 
Presidents of the clubs and organizations must call the Student Goverment Treasurer's Office (7417) sometime this week for further instructions. 
The Observer will publish more details concerning the allocations in tomorrow's paper. . 
meeting, this Wednesday. But because of the unpredicted reaction by students. Price invited Soma and several other students to discuss the issue this afternoon. 
The meeting will be held at 4 
p.m. in the South Dining ijall offices and although the meeting is notclosed,Soma requests that only "those students with a serious · concern" should attend. 
yesterday. Wall ace has stated he is proud of Carter as a fellow south­erner and a fellow Democrat. 
Carter has been critical of Ford for "hiding" in the White House, saying the Republican candidate is afraid to face the voters to account for the actions of his administra­tion. according to the AP story. But Ford advisers now say more travel is planned, including a trip to California for the next debate. scheduled for Oct. 6. 
Ford has left the White House for only two other campaign trips-­a one-day trip to the Univcrsit~· of Michigan to open his campaign. and a trip to Philadelphia for the debate last Thursday night. 


----------, 
the observer Monday,~eptember 27, 1976 
~----~=-~~~~~------­
Off-campus students receiving
,._--News Briefs--­


services from ND Housing Office
I:==========International 
Open road for negotiations 
LUSAKA, Zambia-Presidents of the five "front-lines" black African states rejected yesterday Prime Minister Ian Smith's terms for the surrender of power to Rhodesia's black majority but apparently accepted the principle of interim government to prepare the way. The State Department declared in Washington, "The road to negotiated solution is now open." 

Commando team takes hotel 
DAMASCUS, Syria -A Palestinian commando team captured a Damascus luxury hotel yesterday and held about 90 hostages until Syrian troops blasted them out in a bloody three-hour battle. The government said one terroist and four hostages died and 34 hostages were wounded. 
a..---Qn Campus Toda!J'--­
6 30 p.m­
7 p.m -­
7 p.m.-­
7:30p.m.-­
8:15 p.m.-­:00 p.m.-­

world hunger coalition meeting for SMC women i"n: carroll hall (madaleva hall -SMC 
chess club meeting in rm 326 at math and computer center 
organizational meeting for AIAA in rm 12 aerospace building, sponsored by aerospace engineering department 
organizational meeting for neighborhood study help program volunteers. 
chicago symphony quartet (with william cerny, piano and patrick maloney, tenor), lib. aud., admission $1 
meeting for world hunger coalition collectors who missed thursday's meeting in lafortutne little theater. 
also provides model leases for use specifically by students. Pamph­lets for both student and landlord, explaining state requirements and legal obligations of both parties, are available in the Housing Office. 
According to Father John Mulcahy, director of Student Housing, these services are rela­tively new. 
"A few years ago the Off-Cam­pus Housing Office consisted of a list of houses and apartments," he remarked. "Then Fr. Tallaritia took over some two years ago and began to develop these various programs." 
Before his resignation in Decem­ber of 1975, Tallarida instituted the use of student aides. Under their new titles of Associate Directors of Off-Campus Housing, Darlene Palma and ·Mark Nishan are con­tinuing to expand the programs for students. 
One main concern of students living off-'campus is the possibility of burglaries. As part of their inspection, the directors check for various safety precautions. Last year programs designed to help the students safeguard their homes were not met with much response. 
"We tried one program, Project Mark, where students mark their valuables with diamond pointed pens. These were available in the office but very few people used them," said Palma. 
Besides attempting to prevent
,·. . 
break-ins, the Housing Office keeps in touch with the police for news of any burglaries of off­campus student residences. Also, if a student should need any type of legal assistance, arrangements can be made through the 0-C Office with Legal Aid. 
"Students usually come to us when they have trouble, like bur­glaries or landlord problems," Palma said .. "But for the most part the majority of students don't have many problems." 
In its role as mediator the Housing Office handles complaints both from and about students. In disputes between landlord and tenants, Housing tries to intervene to find a workable solution. 
Mulcahy commented, "Just last week we had a complaint from some neighbors about a loud party next door in a student's apartment at 2:30 in the morning. These are the type of complaints we usually get." 
Beginning his fifth year as Housing Director, Mulcahy was optimistic about the growth of. the Off-Campus department. Accord­ing to him the joint operation of both housing divisions should prove very effective under one director. 
Students seeking assistance from the Off-Campus Office can go to Room 311 in the Administration Building from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. Monday through Friday. 
by Chris Datzman Staff Reporter 

The Off-Campus Housing, now incorporated into the Housing Of­fice, still offers the same services as before to off-campus students. Among these servicers are house inspections, crime prevention measures and mediation between landlords and tenants. 
For prospective· 0-C students, Housing prepares a list o.f available houses that have been· inspected and ·approved by the University. Homes not on ·the list can be inspected upon request. The office 
ISIS art gallery. seeking arti.sts 
ISIS., the student art gallery, will exhibit the works of 8 major artists this year. The Student Govern­ment Cultural Arts committee in 
conjunction with the Notre Dame Art department is sponsoring the program. 
The committee is now consider­ing nominations for the 8 shows and are open to any suggestions from students, faculty and adminis­tration. 
ISIS will also sponsor 8 minor art shows this year. In a minor show, work of prospective faculty mem­bers and students will be shown. Nominations for the minor art shows are also being accepted now. 
Any student wishing to nominate an artist should submit the artist's name, address or phone number, state where the artist has previous­ly shown his work and in what media the artist works. The nominator should also submit his name and major. 
Drop off suggestions or nomina­
tions at the Art department office,


ND Design Dept. invited to 
or contact Tim Taylor, head of the organization, for further informa­tion.

Armco firefighting seminar 
by Mike Shields firefighting. not fire prevention. A 
l fi,. Ob<>Pr\Pr" publi'-lwd Mond<~v Staff Reporter twelve-member team of students 
through I mid~ and "''<'~h dur~ng tht• '>UnlnH'r "''"on. t'X('t'pt dunng
Notre Dame's Department of has been selected to work on the 
the P\dnl ,md va< Jtll>ll pt•nod'> The
Industrial Design has been invited project. Armco will equip the team 
()b,prwr" pubJI'>hPd by '>tUdPnh o( 
to participate in a project to design with all needed reference mater­
thP LlnivPr'>itV o( Notre DamP dntl new methods of firefighting to suit ials. and experts will visit the 
St Mar~·, Collegp Sub.;,c r~ption'> the changing needs of our society. campus to advise and critique. 
ma~ bP purrhd'>Pd tor $20 pH ypar ($10 JJPr wmester) trom The ObsPr­
The project is being sponsored by Armco will also furnish financial 
vE'r, Box Q, Notre OamE', Indiana
the Armco Corporation. support for materials and the 
46156 St>cond class postagP pa>d.
This is Notre Dame's first invita-construction of a mock-up. 
NotrE' Dame. Indiana 46556 tion to the Armco program, which Professor Heckman said that the 
ThE' ObwrvPr is a membPr of thP has been in existence since 1968. team will examine areas on campus 
A5sociated Press All rPproduction nght5 arp rpservPd
Three other schools, Cornell, West vulnerable to fire. and formulate Virginia. and Bringham Young. have devices and systems to combat fire. also been invited to participate in In late March. the team and the the project that Professor Frederick model will be flown to either Dallas Beckman calls a "fantastic oppor-or New Orleans, where the model 
tunity." Beckman considers it "an will be displayed to various insur-
I. I 

honor and a privilege to have been ance companies and group..s such as 
selected." the National Association of Fire­
~ ~ 

The topic of the project is fighters. Mark Arens, an Assistant Direct­
1":.:1
=


(:*The Observerl '
or in the Industrial Design Depart­ment. calls the project "realistic," 



' I ~ Sl
Night Editor: 741084382 and notes the worth of the project 
......, 

.iiiiiiiiiiiii'
Asst. Night Editor: 741036757 to graduating students who will 
1:3 

layout Staff: 741618652, 207-enter the business world soon. 422817, 315641697, 393601598 According to Arens, the project is Features layout: 741265355, "no ripoff." The devices will not 731706859 be patented by Armco. 
Not Merely a Graduate
Sports layout: 731872563 Sue Hart. a junior involved with 
./·

Typists: 741148946, 73145605, the project, thinks the program is a 73129435 ~ "real good idea," offering good Night Controller: 741265355 experience. 

Level Engineering Program 
Day Editor: 741687519 Many people will benefit from Copy Reader: 741468272 this program: students, Armco, 
The Navy Nuclear Power Program is a total systems approach to .problem
Ad layout: 731947306 and most importantly, the people 
solving. Admiral H. G. Rickover implemented this program to train 
L
Photographer: 731368502 J whose lives might be saved thro­
intelligent men to address complex problems through knowledge and 
~-~O:n:e:::u~p:o:n:::3:1~4:6:6~9:8~9~4::::::~-~_:u~g~h~t~h:_e~t:_ec~h_:nical advances made. 
understanding rather than rote compliance to set procedures. This is the most selective and highest paying Engineering specialty in the Navy. In addition to full pay and benefits, it includes a $1,500 bonus for completion of Nuclear Power School and a $20,000 four year continuation bonus.





rnictlae~s 
hair stl.ILinQ
etc. 

The Navy needs some very special Notre Dame Graduates who aren't afraid to find out how good they are. · 
FOR APPT. CALL: 272-7222 

NAVY ON CAMPUS
18381 EDISON RD. AT SO. BEND AVE. 
OCTOBER 6-8 
MAKE APPOINTMENTS W ITH'PLACEMENT OFFICE 
Right now, up until Oct. 31st, you can fly roundtrip from 
New York to Luxembourg for only $360. · 
That's $106less than the youth fare you'd pay on anyother scheduled airline. (From Chicago you pay $401 and save $113.) All you have to do is be under the age of 24. , 
There are no booking restrictions. And no skimping orl meals or service. Because we give you the same service . you'd get from other airlines, without the same highcosts. So, if you're planning on Europe, fly with us on Icelandic. We'll give you more than the lowest youth fares. 
We'll give you the best deal. 
See your travel agent or wnte to IcelandiC Alflmes Dept,;; CN, 630 Fifth Avenue, NY. NY 10020. Oreal/ toll free.· (800) 555-1212. Fares subject to chaoge. 
SaveSJ06 on jet fares 
to Eutop·eand book 
anyttmeyou.want. 




Icelandic
LOWESTJET ..'ARES TO EllROPE 0 ..'ANY SCHEDllLED1\IRLINE. 

~.---~--­
' 
Student volunteers hold meetin~ 
by Mauri Miller 
Staff Reporter 
MANAS::;A, the student vol­

lunteer division of the mental 
health association, will have a 
statewide meeting next weekend, 
according to Joe Wells. MANAS­
SA President. 
The meeting wiii be Friday 

night and Saturday, October 1 
and 2. at Marion College in 
Indianapolis. 
Wells said anyone interested in 

attending the meeting should 
contact him at 3682 or any of the 
officers of the organization. The 
other officers are John Cushman, 
vice-prepident, and Ste,ve San­
filippo, secretary-treasurer. 
The meeting. which will host 

all the MANASSA student chap­ters in Indiana, -will feature such speakers as a member of "Make Today Count", a group of per­.sons suffering from terminal illnesses. who will discuss the meaning of life to her group. a former patient of a mental insti­tution in the state of Indiana. who will speak on life in a mental hospital, and a speaker who will talk about the causes and pre­
vention of suicide. 
Also included will be a work­

shop on "The Mind and-Body". 
The registration fee for the 
meeting will be $3, with an 
additional charge for lodging 
accommodations. Wells said 
transportation for all those inter­
ested will be provided. 
ND Chess Club issues challenge 
The Notre Dame Chess Club will challenge the South Bend Chess Club Wednesday, September 29 at 7 p.m. at the South Bend Public Library. This is the third annual match between the two clubs for possession of the Donald Brooks trophy. 
MANASSA. which is not an acronym for the name of the organ-ization, but is sanskrit for mind. "provides volunteer ser­vices for three institutions in South Bend," according to Wells. 
At Memorial Hospital, volun­teers serve on psychiatric and alcoholic wards, helping with short-term and emergency psy­chiatric patients. The volunteers who chose Memorial H0spital take patients on outings so "they are not always confined to the wards". 
Training programs are also held at Memorial Hospital. are taken by each of the members of MANASSA. The next training session will be tonight. covering such topics as depression, listen­ing skills and how to deal with alcoholics. 
The second institution served 
by the MANASSA workers is 
the Northern Indiana State Hos­
pital. where the volunteers work 
on a one-to-one relationship with 
the mentally deficient children at 
the institution. The staff of the 
hospital sets a certain goal at the 
beginning of the program. which 
each session of volunteer and 
child attempts to reach. 
In previous years MANASSA 
dealt entirel:y with the Northern 
Indiana State Hospital. but. ac­
cording to Wells. it is expanding 
this year, focusing on "different 
avenues of drawing on volunteer 
capacities.·· 
The Half-way . House is the 
third area of service for the 
group. This involves many of the 
same services as the mental ward 
at Memorial Hospital. with the 
patients being former members 
of mental institutions. Services 
provided include outings such as 
concerts. sporting events. and 
"just becoming friends with the 
people." 
The volunteers in MANASSA are required to attend a training program. and to give two hours of service per week. The organiza­tion is intended primarily for the benefit of pre-medical or psycho­logy students who wish to gain some practical experience in their field. Anyone interested in joining the organization or atten­ding the training session tonight, should contact any of the officers. 

SMC sophomores discuss alcohol 
by Janet Miller Staff Reporter 
The Sophomore Council met last night to discuss the presence of alcohol at Sophomore social func­
. tions. 'ltevie Wernig, Vice-President of Swdent Affairs, told Terry Touhy, Sophomore ,Class president, that any member of the Freshman, Sophomore. or Junior class (and any senior un9er 21) cannot have alcohol at any school function in '11diana, and that they would have 
o plan any social activities. picnics. dances, etc .. without the alcoholic bevcerages. 
"I agree totally with Stevie and will comply with her and any other member of the administration on this issue." Touhy said. 
The idea of going to Michigan for such activities was brought up. but Kathleen King. secretary of the Sophomore class, said "It is almost impossible to get transportation. 
i.e. busses. to get to Michigan and until we can get transportation it is going to be hard to plan anything up there." The subject then switched to the planning of a Sophomore dinner at 

company by a steady rain. (Phot' by Leo hansen) 
St: Mary's. This dinner would replace the Sophomore picnic which has been cancelled twice this year because of difficulties. It would be just for St. Mary's 
,tudents because it was stated by some of the Notre Dame sophomore class officiers that "the attendance from ND would not be too high without alcohol." 
Activities for the Sophomores before the October break were briefly discussed, and an effort to return to the "traditional St. Mary's". the council is going to plan a semi-formal, Sunday after­noon tea with Notre Dame some­time late October (black tic and white gloves). 
Touhy and the other officers ended the meeting with the resolu­tion. "The sophomore class at St. Marv's does not have to rely on alcohol to have a good time at any social function''. 
SMU law rep 


to visit campus 
A representative from Southern Methodist University School of Law will be on the Notre Dame campus Thursday, Sptember 30. He will discuss the SMl1 Law School's program in room lOS O'Shaugh­nessy Hall at 7 p.m. 
Southern Methodist's Law school accepts about 225 students each year from approximately 1200 applicants. SMU Law School candidated have. as an average, a 
3.4 GPA and score about 619 on the LSAT. The Law School offers four graduate programs: Comparative Law, Doctor of Science in Law. Jurid Doctor and Master of Law. 
All students are welcome. 


PORK CHOPS center 
cut rib 


$1.09lb. 

center cut loin
PORK CHOPS $1.19lb.

SUPER 7 
-1016 HOWARD,' SOUTH BEND CORNER ACROSS FROM NICKlES 
2 percent 
3 lb. bag

MILK ~a~: $1 .09 DEL· APPLES 
8-16 oz. btl.. & Dep. 
lb.

BANANAS 19¢ NEHI or R·C· COLA 
. HOURS: MON. thru SAT. 8 A.M. to 9 P.M. 
SUNDAY 10 A.M. to 5 P.M. 

the observer Monday, September 27, 1976
_::.___~=--=~~.:....=:.:....__ __:..:..::..:::..:.::::: ----­
Indiana Club auctions belongings, memories 
(continued from page 1) 
asked. "The· club's president 
appointed us to auction off the . personal property, nothing else . 
They had an appraiser come· in and 
look at everything and he said that 
the stuff was worth about $100,000. 
I don't think that we'll get that. We are shooting for about half of that." 
Whv would one of the most private clubs in the state close and have to sell trinkets to stay out of court? "For purely economic reasons, like so many other private clubs in the country," said club attorney William Voor, Sr. "We couldn't operate with the amount of traffic that we had. But we are not bankrupt. I'm tired of people saying 
that we are. Yes, the building has been transfered to the banks because the mortgage was too big, but aside from that, we are in sound condition. Whatever debts that we have we have assets to pay 
them  off.  That  is  why  we  are  
'having the auctio n."  
The  building  that  the  Indiana  

Club has occupied since 1939 was 
transferred to the four banks that held the mortgage last year, ac­cording to club president Rolland 
W. Goheen. One of the four banks that voluntarily took over the building was The National Bank, for which Goheen is presently the director. 
''The building was really a ritzy place," said Candy Bulland whose parents and grandparents were members of the club. "It was really snazzy and elegant. It was the kind of place where when you went as a child you knew that you better be on your best behavior. It was gracious and relaxed, like the old picture of the old English men's club." 
Candy remembers Albert fondly. 
"He knew everybody, even the names of us kids. He was reallv helpful and gracious, polite and always smiling. He was the perfect maitre d'." 
Albert continued,"We had a lot of affairs here from Notre Dame and St. Mary's over the years. At 
f1rst we would only have threr balls here a year. Of course people 
Irish down Wildcats 
(continued from pa~e 8) 1-vmts for Notre Dame. Freshman Willard Browner and LeRoy leo­pold, sophomores Tom Domin and 
Russ Lisch. The whole traveling squad saw some action save three men. 
Willard Browner contributed 28 yards rushing s well as receiving three passes for 36 yards and one 
SMC Warriors 
(continued from page 5) division, who have suffered several casualties due to alcohol and the "other room." Weapons primed they ,·ommence the second siege hopeful of a quick surrender-a-date the next night. 
The night exits and the morning comes in. The battle continues to wage but more and more of the troops are seen staggering in with their casualties. It has been a long hard battle with limited-success. They had met their opposition bU't the opposition was not yet theirs. 
· "Take heart." exclaimed the war crazed commander, "There's al­ways the library and Nickies tomorrow night!" 
While sitting in her room lis­tening to the soft sounds of Linda Ronstadt, a war sick veteran . drinks her beer and wonders. 
touchdown. He also threw a pass for a two-point conversion. 
"Willard has been impressive the last two weeks,'' commented Devine. "We worked with passes by Willard all week and he's been throwing it very well." 
Browner was playing in the place of Jerome Heavens. Heavens bruised his knee at the end of the first quarter. The injury is not serious and should not effect his playing next Saturday. 
Hunter ran for 88 yards and two touchdowns, while Eurick added 69 yards. Ross Browner recovered his ninth fumble of his career, tying the school record held by Jim Stock for most fumbles recovered. 
"losing to Pitt might have been the best thing that could have happened to us," said Ken Mac­Afee. "We decided to pull together after that and to say 'the hell with everything else, let's win."' 
And they certainly did thar Saturday. 
change during the years. The students were more formal then. They are more full of fun now. Last year we had a guy dressed in a tux with a Charlie Chalpin derby and tennis shoes on his feet. They would have never donlt, that in the 40's." 
"It used to be much easier then. Last year there was a hall formal here and I was expecting to get the check from a male student. But when the dance committee came in at the beginning of the evening, they were all girls. I forgot that Notre Dame was co-ed." 
"It was really a nice place, we really liked it," said Nancy Siegler, president of Breen-Phillips Hall. "It could hold a lot of people. There were other places where a hall could have a formal, but it seemed that everybody liked the Indiana Club." 
They treated the students really well," said Keefe Montgom­ery, Stanford Hall president. "J thought that it was a really good place. I just wonder why they closed it." 
"In the 60's, some members left the Indiana Club and formed the Summitt Club in the American National Bank building," answered Albert. "After that, the ACC was built and that took business away from us. Then no new members joined the club. The club never became tacky, but money got pretty short and they couldn't do everything that had to be done. It closed a year ago last March." 
"It was a dumpy place, it wasn't that great," said Beth Marren, last year's vice president of Holy Cross Hall at St. Mary's. "I had to fight them last year to turn on the air-conditioning. It's definitely not a luxurious place anymore. It's more like a V,F.W. place." 
"We are not a dead organiza tion," said Goheen. "Nobody is going to be able to say that they lost any money on the Indiana Club. We still have our liquor liscense and if the auction turns ou: good, well maybe in two or thre<.~ months the membership might get together and decide whether we still have a furute." 
''The last party held here was for me," said AI. "The members gave it for me on July 1. My wife and I got picked up at our home by a limousine and had a police escort right up to the building. The building was really fixed up nice, too. It was the last party here. It was really a great night.'' 
AI looked down and said that the crowd was moving out now. The first day of the auction was over, but they all would be back on Monday for the second and last day of the auction. There was once a magical kingdom here, a world where people lived in black ties and charm and beauty and soft, grace­ful movements. But like the people who once made their way through the doors of the club, that kingdom and its world have long been gone, lost under the hard light of the modern world. 
ND-SMC Hotline sets up this week 
The Notre Dame-St. Mary's Hot­line will have an_ organizational meeting Tuesday, Sept. 28, at 7:30, in room 2C of Lafortune Student Center. 
This program formerly St. Mary's S.H.A.R.E.* is a telephone line service in which students help other students with problems re­lated to drugs, sex. academics, roommates, or just boredom or discouragement. All phone calls remain confidential. 
Students are needed to organize and help in this program. Anyone interested may attend the meeting or call Mike Donovan at 8273. 


UNITED STATES READING LAB 
I 


OFFERS.SPEED READING COURSE AT NOTRE DAME 
United States Reading Lab will offer a 4 week course in speed reading to a limited number of qualified people at Notre Dame. 
This recently developed method of instruction is the most innovative and ef­fective program available in the United States. 
Not only does this famous course reduce your time in the classroom to just one class per week for 4 short weeks but it also includes an advanced speed reading 
' course on cassette tape so that you can 

Oct. 1, 2, 7, 8, 9 at 8:00 p.m. 
information, a series of free, one hour, orientation lectures have been schedules.
All seats $2.50 
At these free lectures the course will be
O'LAUGHLIN ($2 Std-Fac-Staff) explained in complete detail, including
AUDITORIUM Special Rate 4 P!ays Phone: 284-4176 
classroom procedures, instruction meth­ods, class schedule and a special 1 time only introductory tuition that is less than one-half the cost of similar courses. You must attend any of the free meetings for information about Notre Dame classes. 
These orientations are open to the public, above age 14 (persons under 18 should be accompanied by a parent if possible). ·



VIEL VERGNUGEN 


If you have always wanted to be a speed reader but found the cost prohibi­tive or the course too time consuming ... now you can! Just by attending 1 evening per week for 4 short weeks you can read 7
SPONSORED BY 

to 10 times faster, concentrate better and comprehend more.
SMC SOCIAL COMM. 

,_ 
J 
continue to improve for the rest of your FAST I 
life. In just 4 weeks the average student should be reading 4-5 times faster. In a
TYPEWRITER 
few months some students are reading 20-30 times faster attaining speeds that ~ REPAIR 
fJ:I:I:W.! 

approach 601)0 words per minute. In rare 2915 Mishawaka Ave~­
instances speeds of up to-13,000 wpm have been documented. Our average graduate should read

Heartbreak 
7-10 times faster upon completion of the course with marked· improvement in

House 

comprehension and concentration. 
G. B. Shaw's prophetic comedy. 
For those who would like additional If you are a student who would like to make A's instead of B's or C's or if you are a business person who wants to stay abreast of today's everchanging acceler­ating world then this course is an absolute necessity. ~ 
These free special one-hour lectures will be held at the following times( and places. 
~OTRE DAME MEETINGS 
• Tuesday: Sept. 21, at 6:30 p.m.·and 
again at 8:30 p.m. Wednesday: Sept. 22, at 6:30p.m. and again at 8 :30 p.m. 
Thursday: Sept. 23, at 6:30 p.m. and 
again at 8:30p.m. 
Friday: Sept. 24! at 6:30 p.m. and again at 8:30p.m. Sunday: Sept. 26, at 2:30p.m. and again at 5:30p.m. , 
Monday: Sept. 27, at6:30 p.m. and again 
at 8:30p.m.  ,  
TWO FINTuesday: Sept. again c3t8:30 p.m.  ALME28, at  ETING6:30  S p.m.  and ,  

THESE MEETINGS WILL &E HELD AT NOTRE DAME CENTER FOR CONTIN­UING EDUCATION 
If you are a businessman, student, housewife or executive this cause, which took 5 years of intensive research to devE:Iop, is a must. You can read 7 -10 times faster, comprehend more, concen­trate better, and remember longer. Students are offered and additional discount. This course can be taught to tindustry or civic groups at "Group rates" ·upon request. Be sure to attend whichever free orientation that fits best in your schedule. 

Monday, September 27, 1976 
Camara at Notre Dame 

,­

fr. bill toohey 
Editor's Note: Today's column is an adaptation from Fr. Toohey's latest book, Fully Alive, to be published this fall. 
Before we get too far along into this new 
school-year, an event that occurred at 
graduation deserves some comment. Dom 
Helder Camara, the archbishop of Recife. 
in impoverished northeast Brazil, wa~ 
invited to Notre Dame last May to receive 
an honorary degree. 
Camara has been called ''the mos 
influential Latin American churchman O• 
this century." Many also consider him < 
saint. One thing for sure: He is a man thor· 
oughly hated by the oppressive govern 
ment of his own land. 
He has been constantly harassed by hb 
enemies: threats of death, anonymous phone calls, slanderous attacks against him that have been delivered to the Vatican. The ·''Squadron of Death.'' a para-military group that is tolerated by the government. has t\\o~ce made attempts on his life. On one occasion. machine-gun bullets riddled his , home; on another, a student he knew was shot in the spine and paralyzed for life; and a friend and helper was hung. his body pierced through with bullets. Helder Camara cannot even speak or say Mass at the Jesuit University; it would lead to the arrest of the Rector on the charge of 
cooperating with a subversive. 
For years Camara has been struggling, 
against unimaginable odds, for the poor 
and oppressed of his country. He has 
courageously denounced the corruption 
and violence of his government, document­
ing in great detail the tortures administer­
ed to those who champion the cause of 
social justice. 
But he is truly a prophet not accepted in 
his own countrv. He has been effectively 
cut off from ch.urch, country and friends. 
His continuing "temptation in the desert" 
is the enticement to go along with the 
status quo, for this would put him in favor 
with the power structure. As government 
officials have admitted. "If Camara would 
just· shut up, he would be revered by 
country and church alike." As it is, 
however, espeCially with the majority of 
the clergy pro-govc;rnment, the archbishop 
is marginalized and neutralized --forced to 
travel outside of his own country to 
continue his efforts for the poorest of the 
poor. 
Meeting Camara at Notre Dame was a 
moving and unforgettable experience. One 
is immediatdy struck by the gentleness of 
the man. With his soft voice and fragile 
appearajlce, there is an incredible power of 

The SMC Gladiators 
Therese Richeson 
Preparations began early that Friday afternoon. The platoon was assembled for. its final briefing and detailed maps and time schedules were handed out before the syncronization of watches. Revisions and adjustments had been made since the previou'i Monday until all was in order. It was an important mission. Nothing could go wrong. 
7:00 
p.m. Time to begin. Specific camouflage was required for this mission 

v. 
ith special emphasis to the dark colorings around the eyes. High shoes and three­piece suits were recommended for those serving as decoys while rugby shirts and painter's pants were acceptable for those who wished to blend easily into the crowd. Fluffy hairstyles and contac lenses com­pleted the disguises making the attackers virtually unrecognizable to the untrained eye. 


Zero minus thirty minutes. Shivering in the cold, the troops paced up and down practicing their lines and gestures. Each knew that it was a difficult game of espiona,gy that they were about to play. The schedule was interrupted temporarily due to the unexplained tardiness of the bus which was to take them to their appointed stop. 
No matter. The time could be made up elsewhere. Piling onto the bus, careful not to smudge or tear, they talked from front to back in high tones with the veterans giving added tips and advice. 
Zero hour. The battle begins. Arriving at the circle the platoon is divided into various groups which immediately pan out to the various sector divisions. Each group is comprised of at least ten members; never breaking off into smaller groups than two. group A has instructions to invade Grace first. With reinforcements every hour from groups D, U, and M. They are then to report in ·sequential order to Alumni, Stanford, and Sarin, where attacks are also presence; he is so attentive to your every word, you feel he is entering right into you. He tot11-lly captivated all who were privil­eged to be with him; and had a few surprises for many. He traveled the 4,000 miles by himself; he wore a plain black cassock with a simple wooden pectoral cross; he insisted on carrying his own luggage; and, in humble deference, was always the last one on or off elevators. One of my friends knelt to kiss his episcopal rin_g and was doubly surprised: First he found no ring, then he discovered the archbishop kneeling on path knees before him! 
At the special President's Banquet the night before graduation, each dignitary offers a toast. Finally it becomes Helder Camara's turn. After thanking his col­leagues and praising the university and its president. the archbishop offers a toast to "his special favorites"--the cooks, waiters and waitresses who had been doing the serving. 
That seemed to be a typical Camara gesture --provoking the consciousness of the rich and powerful and influential. But the way he did it is also typical. His gentle manner manifested no sign of contempt for those who do not feel the way he does or live his humble style of life. For example, he spoke about the difference between alleviating the results of oppression and the elimination of the causes. He said: "To give money to alleviate poverty is to be a hero.lt's when you struggle to eliminate the causes of poverty (evil systems and oppressive structures) that you become an enemy. 
''I once spoke to Archbishop Sheen about this question," Camara continued. "I had wondered why he hadn't spoken out more about the war and the social evils so rampant in much of American society. He told me that if he did, he would immediately be written off by countless people who would no longer contribute to his charitable causes. I could respect him for that. I must realize that not all will see things the same way I do." 
Helder Camara's gentle and sensitive nature does not inhibit his prophetic championing of the cause of justice. In remarks prepared on the occasion of the reception of his honorary degree here, he forthrightly challenged America in this Bicentennial year: "The liberation from all totalitarianisms will not come bv the use of totalitarianism! The liberation from all empires will not come from the extension of an empire. The liberation of the oppressed a-nd those suffering injustice will come from the small. the weak, the poor. I 

'JOt-/ 
RTV 
being waged. With a camouflage touch-up in the first floor restroom, Group A makes its way calmly and collectedly to the third floor. Entering the designated rooms they immediately bring out their weapons and begin to fire. 
"Oh, I just love the way that your paneling caves in there. Oh, your room­mate got mad and kicked it instead of you? How cute." 
''That poster of the rattlesnake is just adorable. Where did you get 'it? I must run right out and buy one for my room." 
"Would you happen to have any more beer? I've only had five and.well, I just get SO thirsty when there are 250 people when in a single." 
"Excuse me, could you tell me who that guy with the blond hair is? He really is cute. Jeff? Thanks." 
"Yoo-HooJeff, remember me? It's been a long time hasn't it?" 
Ammunition exhausted, the Group makes a hasty retreat to the next rendez­vous where they relieve the battle weary 
(continued on page 4) never tire of repeating the fact that in all countries, in all races, in all religions, in all human groups, there exist small but solid groups dedicated to the promotion of liberty and justice for all (and not only for the privileged individuals or privileged countries). 
"Who made these groups to spring up throughout the world? Some individual: Some institution? Only the spirit of God was able to make this happen. And the God of love. without a hint of hate, the God of the humble with only poor resources will use these weak instruments to raise up a union of the dispossessed from rich and poor countries. For there is an overwhelm­ing hunger for justice as the supreme condition for peace. 
"The God of the weak, of the small. of the poor, will work the marvel of 'llakine­force give way to weakness. Humanity is 
Movies 

Growi_ng out of a lifestyle 
Anna Monardo 
Allee Doesn't Live Here Anymore is just the kmd of movie that makes you feel good about things again. It is about a woman and her son as they share the agonizing experience of growipg up. In the end they succeed. 
The movie follows Alice through a few revolutionary months of her life. At first we see her as an opppressed, dissatisfied housewife trying hard to keep things pleasant as her miserable husband and her 
vise-mouthed kid constantly wring each 
1ther's nerves. 
Then one day, just as Alice is saying to 
1er friend that she would have no problem 
iving without a man...didn't care if she :~.ever saw one again, there is an ironic ring 1fthe telephone. The tears begin as she is ,old that her husband has been killed while iriving his Coca-Cola Distributing truck-;-­:;uddenly she realizes that she'll never tave it so easy again. 
Alice is forced into making good her >tatement that she can live without a man. She packs up her car and her son, Tommy, and heads for Monterey, California be­cause she had been happy there at age 19, 
:nd hopes that the city would work its same 
.venders at age 35. 
Along the way they stop twice to set up housekeeping in cheap motels and Alice beats the pavement looking for a job. In the first town, she finds a job as a singer in a cocktail lounge. There. she finds a few unexpected problems as well; the worst being Ben, a 27-year-old unfaithful hus­band who is just charmed by her singing (so he says). Alice sees Ben as a gentle little teenager and they have a brief affair until Ben <;tarts smashing windows and 

The Shootist 
Maureen O'Brien 
The most remarkable thing about The Shootist is it doesn't seem like a John Wayne movie while you are watching it. 
The all-star cast features John Wayne, Lauren Bacall, Jimmy Stewart, Ron How­ard, Scatrilan Crothers, Hugh O'Brien, Richard Boone, Harry Morgan and Bill McKinley, Richard Lenz, John Carradine, and Sheree North. The Paramound picture was produced by M. J. Frankovich-William Self and directed by Don Siegel. 
The plot is clean and western. Famous shootist John Bernard Books (John Wayne without an eye patch) is dying of cancer. He goes to Carson City in search of Doc Jimmy Stewart and a second opinion. He finds Ste;wart, gets bad news and decides to live the remaining days at the widow Rogers' (Lauren Becall) home. 
Everyone floods the Rogers' home in search of the Shootist. Newpapermen wnat to write books about him. An old girlfriend wants to marry him for his name, his money and for publication royalties. Strangers want to gun him down. Enemies want to gun him down. (Even Lauren Becall would like to gun him down for disrupting her Christian household) The town mortician wnts to display him when he's dead. The barber wants to sell his hair for profit. But all J. B. Books wants is a hero's death and to exchange a few lines with the widow and her son, Gillam (Ron Howard) before he dies. 

tired of wars. of racism, of hate: or the. excess of so-called 'progress' which suf­focates life. Mankind is beginning to understand, and will come to understand more fully, that liberty and justice will truly exist only when it exists for. all. And that is why your Bicentennial celebration has so much meaning for you and for all humanity.'' 
The citation for Helder Camara's honor· ary degree doncluded, "Although he ha~ found that the life of a peacemaker can often be surrounded bv violence. nonethe­less, his faith is iri the trarliti,,n ,,f non-violence and in the Chri-,t:.. 1 1>: .n:, ,l' that the meek shall inherit the earth." Thus Dom Helder Camara join~ thn~e other great women and mer. of hi~tm~· "·ho preach to us a contemp,1rar~ \'l'l",inn of the same gospel fir'>! announced by one the.' called the "Nanrr>ne." 
snapping switchblades, forcing Alice and Tommy to make a narrow escape to the 
next town. 
Here Alice finds a job as a waitress at Mel and Ruby's H.estaurant. She hates her job, , dislikes her co-workers. and is miserable with her "manless" state of affairs. To add to he problems, ·as Tommy grows more and more bored, he gets more and more irritating. But finally. Kris Kristofferson makes his delayed entrance as David, a customer at Mel's and both Alice and Tommy learn to laugh again. 
Ellen Burstyn is very believable in her role as Alice, and Kris Kristofferson is very appealing as the bearded ranch owner. Tommy has a mouth that never quits and he does become rather obnoxious; however he's got some of the greatest lines of the movie. and its fun to watch him growing up. 
The movie has some really funny moments; for example, the chaotic scene when Marian, the erying waitress, tries to handle a restaurant full of hungry people while Alice and the other waitresses sit In the bathroom smoking cigarettes and philosophizing. Don't expect much in the way of photography and scenery -just a lot of neon sil?ns and desert. 
Alice Doesn't Live Here Anymore deals with the serious and at times pathetic problem of a woman growing out of her conventional lifestyle into a world for which she had never been prepared. After the crises and the hard times. Alice learns to assert herself and define herself in terms of goals and destinations. Ultimately every­one, Alice, Tommy and !;>avid. become aware of the potential within them to grown and change. 
How does J.B. get out of this mess? Enter Movie Promotion Slogan. please. "He's got to face a gunfight once more, to live up to his legend once more, to win just one more time." So J .B. arranges a gunfight and there is a bitter-sweet ending. 
The all-star cast and the cancer twist alleviate some of that plethora-of-John­Waybe feeling which some of his earlier westerns seem to have. There are less than ten shoot-em-ups in this film, which is a ·pretty low mortality rate for a western. The outdoor scenery of Carson Citv is beautiful and the indoor scenery. of Burbank is believable. 
The plot moves quickly and there is plenty of action to please the die-hard western fans. The lines are good, or perhaps they are just delivered well. 
The acting is good. Becall is sedate. but occasionally stormy. Ron Howard is the classic All-American boy. Wayne winces with pain just right. 
Although The ShootJst throws some curves, there are still plenty of western motifs to satisfy any cowboy pallet. The mountains are J.B.'s church. Books never killed a man who wasn't asking for it. And the tears really come when the ol' gunfight er has to part with not only his horse, but his gun, too. 
Western fan or not, see The Shoodat for a pleasant surprise. 
the observer Monday, September 27, 1976 
Latin American program seeks to share experiences 
by Jack Pizzolato Staff Reporter 
For Notre Dame senior, Matt 

Keifer. third world poverty and 
mi-.cry arc more than just statistics 
in a book; they arc still a vivid 
memory. 
Keifer spent his junior year in 

~antiago. Chile. one of five stu­
lknl'> to complete the university's 
llL'W Latin American Program for 
f'xperiential Learning. (LAPEL). 
LAPEL is a concept that allows ~tudents to take a year off and work with Hoi~· Cros-. fathers in Chile and Peru. Students. while gaining \\ork experience. also investigate and research a specific area of interc-.t concerning Latin AmeriCa. Hut the program's real purpose hegins only after the student returns to the Notre Dame campus. "This is more that just a year abroad." points out Keifer. "In other programs, you go and then your done. but here that's just the beginning, The idea is to come back and share what vou 've learn­ed with other students. increasing 
Vinton refunds available at ACC 

Ticket refunds for the Bobby Vinton show will be made Tuesday, September 28 from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. 
Refunds can be obtained only at the A.C.C.. Gate lO. 
Bobby Vinton was scheduled for September 24 and was to be sponsored by St. Joe Valley F.O.P. Lodge 36. 
Herbert Butler, Conductor 
Saturday 

LEONARD PENNARIO
October 23 

"One of the world's finest . he has attained full at 8:00p.m. motvriry brilhant .. mosterf~.'' -Milwaukee Journal. 
Sunday Oboe Soloist November 14 
RAY STILL
at 4:00p.m. 

A solo oboiSt Since I 954 with the Chicago Symphony. 
A Christmas Spectacular
Saturday 

December 4 PITTSBURGH BALLET 
The ,.nt1re family will thrill to "The Nutcracker.·· A
at 8:00p.m. 
Chnstmos classtc. 

Violin Soloist
Saturday 

February 5 EUGENE FODOR 
First western world top prize winner of the Tchoikov­
at 8:00p.m. 
sky violin competition. 

Sunday SOUTH BEND 
March 20 

SYMPHONIC CHOIR
at 4:00p.m. 

Under the direction of Robert W. Demaree. 
Saturday 

TO BE
April 16 at 8:00p.m. ANNOUNCED 1 ORDER TICKETS BY MAIL TODAY. 
~c;-111=~~:-~~::~~;;o-~~E~E~ J
I 6 COIICEIT SERIES PRICES: ADULT STUOEIT BOX SEAT I
I ~ain Floor & Mezzanine ___ -~21 ~ 1 0 S2S I
Ftrst Balcony _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 16 8I Second & Third Balcony_ _ _ _ _ 1 2 6 I I encloseD chtck C money order lor 5----·-·------lor ...... ______ , tickets. I D aduti D stu~ent D box Mail tickets to: I Name _________ ---·---------------.---------.----------.---------------I 
1 Address ____ ------.------------------------.-------------·-·--------·--1
City _·-· ____________________ ._. __ State ___ --______________ Zip ___ -_-__ _ 
._ 

---------------·-------· 
their awareness of the problems and through them, the university's awareness. "That's why this isn't a program for graduating seniors." 
Keifer's own experience has reinforced his concern over the existence of what he terms, "an exploitative social structure." 
'I chose to live with one of the 
poorer families," he explains. 
"There were II people in a three 
bedroom house; we had no hot 
water and rarely had meat. It's 
pretty tough--you have to face the 
issue of poverty.'· 
Aside from talking to student groups and individual classes, and preparing others interested in part­icipating in the program, the five who returned are also involved in various service acttvttles. They each spend several hours a week in South Bend, working with Spanish­speaking residents and helping at the community's Justice and Peace Center. 
LAPEL was initiated in 1974 by Rev. Claude Pomerleau. C.S.C. and the program's present director and advisor, Rev. Don McNeill, 
c.s.c. 
"We originally had three goals when we inquired about a program in Latin America," notes McNeill. "We wanted to let students exper­ience people from a different culture and class, to see their dependence, their despair, and then to ask questions about the 
U.S. and its relations. We wanted students to experience the church in a different way. to learn why the Holy Cross priests are there, and lastly. we wanted students to learn through working; to pursue inter­ests and share experiences with 
proudlr presents its 
1976/1977 
SEASON 
at tile MORRIS CIY:C AUDITORIUM 
Piano Soloi1t 

The Antique show held at the ACC this weekend' attracted many students as well as local 
treasure seekers. (Photo by leo Hansen) 
each other so that they could raise the awareness of the students and faculty back at Notre Dame. We were getting the university involv­ed in questions of global justice." 
At present, LAPEL has three students in Chile and another two in Chimbote, Peru. Those in Chile arc teaching under supervision in elementary and high schools, while the program in Peru involves working with handicapped child­ren. Both programs begin the first week of July and last until the first week in May. 
McNeill is confident of LAPEL's future and hopes to expand the concept of experiential learning. "Students could possibly take off a semester to work in poverty areas in the U.S." 
Originally. students on the pro­gram received no credit, but due to the amount of writing and reflec­tion demanded, they are now given partial credit in certain subjects. 
LAPEL is a rigorous program, requiring thorough training and a sound commitment. McNeill ex­pects students to have had some prior involvement in community service activities, as well as exper­ience with people whq live in poverty areas. If not, however, the program is ready to help students acquire the necessary background. 
"We're looking for students," says McNeill, "who are dedicated to learning Spanish, who have the appropriate motivation, are sensi­tive to religious and political is­sues, are skillful in understanding inter-cultural experiences, and qu­ite simply. are willing to live poorly." 
"This program is a challenge to rethink your lifestyle and the way the church and Christians face the question of social justice. It will effect your whole life." McNeill hopes that LAPEL students will go on to pursue these interests after college and get together with others who share similiar ideas. He feels it is also important for students to be aware of the vital work of· "the great Holy Cross priests who are dedicating their lives," and to develop "an under­standing of them and their mis­sion." 
McNeill urges those interested in the program to contact LAPEL before the end of this week. Students can pick up information at the Student Activities office in LaFortune. 
"We need to get N.D. students involved," concludes Keifer, 'be­cause the people who graduate from here will be the people forming the policies of the future." 


SUNSHINE PROMOTIONS & BILLY SPARKS PRESENT: 
EARTH WIND 

FffiE 
and Special guest to be announced Friday Oct. 15 8:00PM Notre Dame ACC Tickets $6.50 Main floor and all padded seats 
5.50 Bleachers ' 
On sale now at: ACC box office. Boogie Records, '. Robertson's-South Bend & Concord Mall, St. Joseph Bank & branches, First Bank Main branch only, The Elkhart truth and Suspended Cord in Elkhart, 
and the Record Joint in Nile~. 

Monday, September 27, 1976 the observer ___P_O_N_T_I_A_C_,_M_k_h_._A_P_--C~hud~m~~~~a 
,., cooker 32-yard field goal with three seconds left to play 
r-
NFLRoundu 
ft·~~-~·---~·-~-~D~A~~~~~r~A~~~-~a~w~~~.~~~~·:~n·~~r~;·:-k~~~~·m-a~,~~-s-u_re 
PITTSBURGH AP-Steve Grogan passed for two touch­downs and ran for another, leading a second-half surge that rallied the New England Patriots to a 30-27 vktory 
~~~i~~~o~~~t~:~~f~~abgl~!gl~~=~ Pittsburgh Steelers in a 
It was the second upset in a row for the Patriots. Last week, they scored a 30-14 triumph over Miami that also was spearheaded by the 6-foot-4 Grogan. 
\ 
SAN DIEGO AP-Dan Fouts passed for three of San Diego's four second-period touchdowns, two ofthem going to wide receiver Dwight McDonald, and the unbeaten Chargers upset the St. Louis Cardinals 43-24 Sunday in National Football League play. 
It was the first loss for the defending National Conference East champions, who helped the Chargers by fumbling four times and giving up an intercepted pass. San Diego, winner of only tow games l~t season, is 3-0 
__ttow. 
Notices 

Information: Hit and Run accident 
1100 block Notre Dame Ave.. 1:30­
2:30 am Friday. Automibile respon sible may be white camera (1971 7 4 ), blue or dark top -now has dent and red paint on ri:~ht front fender. Please call 232-7521. 
V'l ill teach flute in your spare time., Call Beth 8112 for more info. 
Morrissey Loan Fund $20-150 1 day wait. 1 percent interest due in 30 days. LaFortune Basement, M-F 11:15-12:15. 
Accurate, fast typin:J. Mrs. Donoho 232 07 46. 
Trader's Village Open 10 4. Used turn. Antiques & Collectables 255-0314. 13000 blk. McKinley, Mish. 1 blk north Frat)ces St. 
Pre-Law Society On Tuesday, Sept­ember 28, there will be an 8 p.m. meetin'l in the South Loun'le of W a Ish Hall for all women interested in the law profession. Dean Waddick and three women law students will be speakin'l and fieldin1 questions concernin'l law school imd related topics. 
Gay Hotline. 8870. October 1 and 2, 8:00pm to 10:00 pm. G. C. N.D. P.O. Box 206 Notre. Dame. 
Lost & Found Lost: one black wallet last week in either O'Sha'l or Ha'l'lar HaiL Need important info. Please call 288 7276. 
Lost: Mana:~erial Econ., Data Pro cessin'l and Plato books outside cashiers office on Wednesday. Call Dave _____________ 234-8611. _
.....~.... 
Lost: 1 hi'lhschool rin'l says Benet Academy. Red stone•. yellow :~old Sellon . .,, 1974 rin'l, initial~ PAR. 1St. Mary's class rin'l; traditional dia­mond chip, 1978 'rin:J, .initials PAR BA :~old antiques settin'l. Lost somewhere between N D & SM C. Call Patti 4 5723. 
Nei~h~orhood Study .Help Pro~ram begins fall semester with organizational meeting Mon. Sept. 27 , 7:30 La Fortune Ballroom Any questions call Tom 272~ 4965 
Mary 284-4405 Maggie 284-4964 

PLUS PARTS, MOST CARS 

SPECIALISTS IN ENGINE TUNE-UP, BRAKES, AIR-CONDITIONING 
V2 BLOCK SOUTH OF MISHAWAKA K-MART 
.,,. 259-6391 
!IAHKAioiEAICARD 

OPEN MON.-SAT. 8-5
*IW 
Wanted 

CJ rt•
Ty~inC] 

wanted. picked up . and I delovered, Reasonable. Diane 683-7759. 
Girl seeks housin'l ur:-~ently. Prefers separate room. Call Annalisa 6584. 
Help! Need 2 or 4 GA Miami tix. Call Mary 4694. 
Go West!! In search of Ore'lon tickets. Call Gre:-~:~ at 1650. · 
·-Desperately need ride to Columbus, Oh oo weekend of Oct. 9. Call Gary1785. 
Need 2 GA BAMA tix desperately.Call 1785. 
Need 4 Ore:~ on fix. Can be 2 and 2. • No thieves need calL Call Cole 288 5667. 
Alabama tix student or GA needed. $Will pay$. Charlie 287-4931. 
Farley Motelees: Apt. furnished, utololoes, 1 win:~, kitchen, bath, own room. $67.50. Connie 8492 days, 289-9110, 255-7571 eves. 
WE WILL TRAIN YOU. Part-lime or full-time. We will train and provide steady employment to honest, de pendable person_s who are will in1 and able to learn. we are a lar1e company involved in the inside cleanin'l and housekeepin'l of build­on'ls. Apply at ITT Buildin'l Ser­vices, 1608 Commerce Drive,' South Bend, Ind. Applications accepted on Tues., Wed. and Thursday between 9 11 AM and 1 :30 to 3 PM, and on Sat. from 9 11 AM. Equal Oppor tunity Employer. M F 
Need Ore-,on GA tickets. Call Kathy, 4418 . 
Need four Ore'lon tix. Can be 2 & 2. No thieves need call. For friends. Call Cole 288 5667. Thanks. 
Pizza Delivery Help Wanted. with car, Fat Wally's 2046 South Bend Ave. 
Sunday to lift the Cowboys to a pulsating 30-27 vktory ove th B If C It · · t f N t" 1 F tb 11 L
0 0 00
e a tmore s m a JOU a wna a eague
unbeaten teams. . Pe-:~~n1?0 st~C:~d~t~o play ~taub~~~ agtain ctonthnectted wfith
1 0 e 5

a tmore -yar me se age or
Herrea's heroks. . 
KANSAS CITY AP-Rookie running back Tony Galbreath squirted nine yards through the middle of the Kansas City C_h~efs defense with less than 2'12 minutes left Sunday, 
gtvtng Hank Stram and the New Orleans Saints a 27-17 vktory over the National Football League team that fired Stram 21 months ago. .· 
HOUSTON AP-Oakland quarterback Mike Rae, filling in for injured Ken Stabler, hit Cliff Branch with touchdown passes of nine and 33 yards, and the Raiders patchwork defense frustrated Houstan Sunday for a 14-13 National Football Le~gue victo~y over the Oilers. 
lOSSI zed Ads 
Waitresses wanted. Must be 21 Apply 4 7 PM Fat Wally's 2046 South Bend Ave. 
Wanted Assistant Householder for psychiatric hall way house facility. Primarily weekend work involvin'l overni'lht stay. Room, board plus small salary. An excellent exper ience tor anyone interested in social 
services  work.  Call  234 1049  for  
further information.  
Really need  "Cryan'  Shames"  al  

bum A Scratch in the Sky" call 4 5236. Will pay bo'l $$ 
PLENTY OF CASH for 3 GA Ore'lon tickets. Gus 6726. ­
Roll, Tide -got some extra GA fix you wanna get rid of fast? Call Mary 8125. 
For Sale 

For Sale. Mich. Sl,. Tix. Call 289 8316. 
'67 Mustan'l Conv., classic, verY 'lOOd condition, new top, new tires, 289 en'l. $1100 287 7693. 
'62 Mercedes 220. 4 dr.. stereo, radials, fine condition, $1100. 287 7693. 
Factory sealed· Maxell VD XL 90 min. cassette tapes $4.75. Call 1182 
Directors chairs personalized. All color & finishes. $22.50. Great Midwest "T" Co. 289-5941. 

Earn $100 a month arid a Marine Corps commission through the Platoon Leaders Class. 
Eligible college men can ~arn $1 00 a month each month of the regular school year. It's like a $900 annual scholarship. 
p~~!~i!~~BBII!Ii!IIBB~m.~m.~BBBI---· 
THE MARINES, Rm 319, 536 S. Clark, Chicago, II 60605 ,.,II Please provide me witti information about Manne officer programs. . 
I M~ 
I

Ms. Age 
Address 

RUGBY JERSEY RUGBY JERSEY RUGBY JERSEY Exactly like Book­store. Our price $11.00. Great Midwest "T" Co. 289-5941. 
N EW LON DO N LA K E C 0 N DO MINIUM 2 bedrooms. den, 2 car 'lara'le. $33,900. Sandy Slroes 272 7750.272 2696. 
Good condition Oldsmobile F 85 year 66. Call 289 4736 lor inlorma lion 
1972 Honda 450 excellent condition, $650 or trade for car. Call Charlie 277 0692 after 6 PM. 
Personals TPA Je t'aime toujours. GEC 
Many, many thanks to the guy who payed my bus fare Monday! The next one's on me. 
· Sempre ti amo Rainbows close. No lon'ler carryin'l puddles around! 
Happy Birthday Uncle Willy. 
North Keenan 

Happy Birthday Susie Capparell! 
M. R., 1 have all of Sprin:~sleen's albums. Come up and listen to them sometime. 233 
Call Rick to wish him a Happy Birthday. Rick's 19 today. 7 8105. 
Did Crackers ever 'let her dessert? Check Thursday to find out. 
What about JD's Roman or'ly??? 
And did JD ever meet GC in the ferns? The continuin'l sa'la of these and many more in Thursday's 
· Personals. 

The PLC also offers a few good men the chance to lea; n to fly free. The Corps pays the entire cost of civilian flight instruction ...worth about $800. 
ti d d tve-yar raw play on the first play of the fourth period to snap a 3-3 tie and Minnesota survived two late scares to
nip the Detroit Lions 10-9 Sunday in a National Football League contest. With 2:0S left Detroit quarterback Greg Landry hit Charlie Sanders with a one-yard touchdown pass, but the 
Lions muffed the extra point attempt. 
TAMPA AP-Buffalo quarterback Joe Ferguson hurled two touchdown passes and led the Bills to a 14-9 National Football League victory Sunday over the Stubborn Tampa Bay Buccanneers. 
CHICAGO AP-Dewey McClain recovered a fumbled punt early in the fourth quarte~. and three plays later Haske! Stanback scored from the three-yard line, giving the previously winless Atlanta Falcons a 10·0 victorv Sundav over the Chicago Bears in a rain-soaked Nationai Footbail League _game. 
To the Bobber Happy Btrthday!! 
Con:~radulations on the Bt'l 17 Tom and Bi'l AI. 
Capparell is le:-~al today. Where will she be toni'lhP 
GIRLS! For very personal answers to your very personal questions, lislen. as EJ the DJ. W SN D. and TID's -TAP present ROOLO'S HEAVIES, Tues and Thurs. at 5:15 on 640 AM, or Call Rollo at 2153. 
Aunty Barb and Friends, Don't thank us. We scalped the lockets. P S. Only kiddin'l. We'll think of somethin:~ for you. Pete, Jim, Mike and Dick. 
Be a political hack' Lowensteon con:~ressional campai:~n. See won derful New York City durin'l Oct­ober break Contact Tim 6701 
Happy Birthday, Mary & Jay! Here's lookin' at you. Love, Erratic, Ma & Lea's friend 
Happy Birthday Gooney Bird. Love, Collie,_ Bu:~s, & Bear 
Brian McMenamin: We think you'.re cute but you ou:~ht to smoke a pipe. S & S P.S. Mall K., you are too! 
Debbie, I suppose mercy is one of your under exposed qualities. 
Things are gelling wrose!!! 1 drove to Bloomington and watched Indiana play Oshkosh (I thought we lost). Help find those glasses-clear framed lost near bars. Call Tom 289-0lU. 
N~~~M~~B~d~a«~~g 
mounts on his 21st birthday at Nickies. 

All PLC leadership training takes place during-the summer when it can't interfere with your college career. Upon graduation PLC members are commissioned Second Lieutenants. 
.. 
_
.. 
8 the observer Monday, September 27, 1976 
-=-----'--.C:. ------­
! by Val Zurblis 
EVANSTON, 01. -It was one of those days when you knew the Irish were going to win big. And they did. What else can you expect from the Wildcats? 
The biggest obstacle to an em­harassing annihilation of North­western, however. wasn't the Wild cats. it was Notre Dame. The Irish fumbled six times. once in a crucial play at the one yard line in the ~ccond quarter. 
.. Any time early in a game you're going to get fumbles, guys arc nervous and trying too hard." said quarterback Rick Slager. 
But the Northwestern game gave the Irish a chance to pull everthing together. Notre Dame's total var·dagc was 562 to 232 for North­~,'L"~tcrn. That averages eight yards per play. Rick Slager completed 12 out of 14 passes for 231 yards and the defense completed its eighth

... 
~traight quarter without letting the other team score. 
'"The defense has been togeth­er." Slager observed. "Today we pulled offensively. We started out with a line with just one returning starter. We've been molding together and today we got there." 
The first quarter was unimpres­sive. Notre Dame kicked off to Nortlw. estern and had the ball three minutes later. The first drive was stopped by a clipping penalty, and the second drive by a fumble. 
In the second quarter Notre Dame started on the 32 yard line and three plays later had their first touchdown as Hunter ran off right tackle for 16 yards for the score. Dave Reeve's kick was partially blocked by corner Neil Little, and was wide to the right, leaving the Irish with a 6-0 lead. 
With seven minutes to go the Irish almost scored again as Joe Restic punted 55 yards from the 45 yard line where strong safety Pete Shaw tried to field the punt on the one yard line. Surrounded by Notre Dame players, Shaw fumbled in the endzone and then recovered his own fumble. It appeared to be a saftcy. but the officials ruled it a touchback. The explanation was that the impetus of the ball was 

Irish bid fond farewell to NU, 48-0 

Rick Slager completed a record 12 of 14 passes for three touchdowns Saturday as the Irish took to the road and mauled Northwestern's Wildcats 48-0. (Photo by Tony Chifari) 
Fred Herbst~aaaaoc:u::.aac=ccaaaaaaaaaaaaaaac 
Team Unity 
IOaaao=aaaaaaaac:aaa:aaaaccaaoa Pressbox_ View 
EVANSTON ILL. -Saturday's Notre Dame-Northwestern game was a good one for Dan Devine's Irish. In fact, it was a great game for them. 
Rick Slager had is greatest day as Notre Dame's quarterback hi.tting on 12 of 14 passes and setting a school record for single game completion percentage. Freshman Willard Browner subbed for the injured Jerome Heavens and scored his first touchdown for the Irish as well as passing for a two-point conversion and rushing for 28 yards. Reserve back Terry Eurick established a career personalxushing mark (69 yards), including a brillant 59-yard run that saw him break five tackles before being pulled down from behind. Ross Browner made eight tackles and recovered a fumble. Freshman LeRoy Leopold intercepted a pass and returned it 57 yards for his first Notre Dame score, and only the. second score in his entire football career. 
h was a game that saw all of the Iris~. except three play and play well. In all. it was definitely Notre Dame's best performance of the still young season-perhaps of Dan Devine's tenure at the University. What brought it about? The answer is unity. 
"This is the best team effort we've had in the last two years," Ken MacAfee said. "Right now the team has more unity than we've had in the last two seasons. All of last year's controversy, the loss to Pitt, every­thing. it's all behind us now." 
Slager agrees. "The defense has been together," he said, "today we pulled together offensively. We started out with a line that only had one returning starter. We've been molding together, and today we got thei·e." 
Untiy is a key factor in any team's performance. A team with faith in each other can overcome a disadvantage in overall talent while despite tremendous talent, a team lacking unity is in serious trouble. The Irish realize this now. 
"Losing to Pitt mig,ht have been the best thing that could have happened to us," MacAfee said. "We decided to pull together after that and to say 'the hell with everything else, let's win.' When you lose one, you find out how it feels and you don't want it to happen again." 
Losing again is something the Irish obviously hope to avoid, but it's no easy task. Despite some ballhandling problems early in the contest Saturday, the Irish were awesome. 
Some might attribute Notre Dame's showing more to the weakness of tJ·e inept Wildcats than to the power of theIrish, and to an extent they're right. But the important thing isn't Notre L.tme's improved execution or Slager's tremendous showing, it's the fact that the Irish are united in a common purpose -an all-out effort to win. 
"We mostly play as a family, what happens to one of us happens to all of us," Ross Browner said. "I think this is our greatest asset, playing together." 
And so it is. 

from the kick not from Shaw that 
made it go in the endzone. 
The Irish got the ball back and 'drove 62 yards to the one yard line 
where Slager tried a quarterback 
sneak but fumbled the ball away to 
Wildcat defensive end Dave Ogen. 
A quick four plays later Notre 
Dame had the ball again and Slager 
passed to Mark McLane for a 
thirteen yard completion. Shaw's 
hit on McLane caused a fumble 
that was recoved by Northwestern 
on their 29. 
Notre Dame bounced back with less 
thaq a minute to go in the -half 
when Slager shot one to Dan 
Kelleher for 38 yards. The next 
play Slager passed to Willard 
Browner for eight yards and the 
second touchdown of the game. 
The conversion was completed by 
the halfback option pass, Slager to 
Browner to Kelleher for the two 
points. With a 14-0 Irish lead at the 
half. it seemed unlikely Northwest­
ern would rally in the second half. 
The Irish played superbly scor­ing on their first four possessions in the second half. In all, Notre Dame notched touchdowns five of the seven times they touched the ball in the half. One highlight was Slager's pass to sophomore Tom Domin for 70 yards and a touch­down. "He (Doinin) was starting to get out of my range as a passer or was getting close to it, and I just threw it as hard as I could and he caught it," Slager related. "It was a super effort by Tom." 
Another four plays later Hunter ran around left end from the Northwestern 37 for a touchdown. Less than three minutes into the half Notre Dame was leading 28-0. 
The Irish regained possession and with six minutes to go junior Terry Eurick broke five tackles and ran up the middle on a determined effort for a 59-yard gain. Neil Little made the touchdown saving tackle at the 22. 
"I was just I ucky," exclaimed Eurick. "I just kept trying to spin for extra yardage and all of a sudden I was stunned to see all of that green in front of me. It sure felt JOOd." 
Slager completed the 81-yard dive by flipping a pass to Ken MacAfee raising the score to 35-0 
The Irish touched the ball for the fourth time in the half at the start of the fourth quarter. Russ Lisch, sophomore quarterback from Bel­leville, Ill.. made his first appea­rance this season replacing Slager and in three minutes ran off left tackle for four yards to give six points to the Irish. It was his first score of his Notre Dame career. With the score 42-0 people began to wonder how high Notre Dame would run up the score. 
The next drive was stopped by freshman Vegas Ferguson's fum­ble on the 45, but Notre Dame jumped right back with another freshman-LeRoy Leopold. He in-· tercepted a pass at the ND 43 and returned it 57 yards for a touch­down. This was only the second touchdown of his high school and college careers. 
"I was keying my man and I looked and there was the ball." Leopold said. "I was just in the right place at the right time. 
Notre Dame preserved the shut­out with freshman Dave Wavmer's interception on the two and return­ed it 24 yards to wrap up the game. Wayne played both offence and defense for the second game in a row. 
Slager broke a school record completing 12 of 14 passes in one game for .857 percentage. The old mark was set in 1949 bv Bob 
Oregon ticket distributionbegins 
Notre Dame and St. Mary's students desiring a ticket to the Oregon football game for their personal use may obtain them at the #1 and #2 Ticket Windows on the second floor of the ACC 
be~otinning 
Seniors may pick up-their ticket on Monday, Sept. 27; juniors, graduate and law students on Tuesday, Sept. 28; sophomores on Wednesday, Sept. 29; and fresh­men on Thursday, Sept. 30. Married students desiring tickets for themselves and spouses will be · able to procure tickets with· their class. 
The ticket windows will be open from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m., inclu~ing the · noon hour, each of the four days. 
When reporting to the ticket window, students must present' their ID card alo>1g with the 4-game season ticket that they were issued earlier in September. At that time students will fill out an application to present with their ID. One student may present four ID cards and submit four applications for adjacent seating. 
There will be no charge for Notre Damt: undergraduates. However, St. Mary's students will be charged $6 for their ticket while Notre Dame graduate and law students will be charged SJ as will the spouse of a Notre Dame student. 
No Oregon student tickets will be issued after Oct. 1'. 
Williams, who completed 13. out of needed to make some adjustments 
16 for .813 against Michigan State. to the type of defense Northwes­
·'The record part of it doesn't tern was using." explained head 
make much difference," com­coach Dan Devine. "I have no 
mented Slager. "The winning is personel feelings of vindication 
the important thing. Still the with Rick Slager's personel perfor­
record is nice." mance. I am happy for Rick but I 
Of the 12 completed passes, don't know if it is necessary for him 
Slager only threw to two wide to feel vindicated either. He is a 
receivers. The rest were all to dedicated Notre Dame man." 
backs and tight ends. "The reason Four players made ·their first 
we used so many backs coming out (continued on page 4)of the backfield was because we 
Chip Spina ooaooooaocaoacoooaaaoocccaccacaco 
Goodbye,· Northwestern 
cacccaaaaaaac=c...aaaaccooaOI High and Inside 
EVANSTON, 01.-0n the north side of Chicago, in this quiet suburb with tree-lined streets and ivy-covered houses lies a privately owned institution of higher learning. It's student body is nearly the same size as Notre Dame's. 
At this point the comparisons should stop, lest they stray into athletics. Saturday's 48-0 demolition of John Pont's chess team masquerading as a football squad was a fitting demonstration of the actual disparity of the schools in the area of sports. Over the last 11 years, the Fighting Irish have so completely dominated the Wildkittens of NU that the Anti-Cruelty Society has asked the series to be ended. It can aptly be called euthanasia. 
Thus, as the Irish leave Evanston for the last time, I leave a suggestion for the shell-shocked athletic department at Northwestern. Perhaps, along with dropping ND from their schedule they would be better off leaving the Big 10. And maybe joining the Illinois High School Athletic Association. They might be able fo score there. Or even, heavens no, win a game. But only a sado-masochist would clear-consciously allow this plundering to continue. ND, being good Catholics, fittingly put the NU corpse to rest over the weekend. 
In cloudy Evanston last Saturday, the Irish were awesome. Besides rolling up the biggest winning margin in three years, setting a school passing mark, and completing their second straight shutout, the gridders also went ahead of the leagJ}e with a 2-1 season mark and rekindled memories of the slaughters of yesteryear. And what a way to do it. 
AI Hunter continued to improve each week. His darting and weaving yesterday left him with two long TD runs and 88 years total rushing. Young Hunt definitely is showing the old pizzaz again. 
Willard Browner demonstrated the great depth of the Irish backfield , replacing the injured Jerome Heavens and running, receiving and passing his way to instant and widespread recognition. What a future this guy hasi A note to that Browner football factory in Ohio. Keep it going ! 
George Kelly's defense was superb to say the least. Two consecutive shutouts over Big 10 oppositionis impressive,even if they are NU and Purdue. This is especially significant when you consider that in each of the last two games, the bad guys had a first and goal, only to find the swarming ND defense ready and able. Each time, ND forced a turno~er. Randy Dean was ef:ectively shut down by an ever-improving secondary. All this with a platoon now playing without two of the eleven original starters, lost through injury. 
Of course, Rick Slager performed the miraculous, doing his Bob Griese imitation and connecting on 12 of 14 for 231 yards and three touchdown passes. No Theisman,Clements, Huarte, Hanratty,nor Hornung ever did better on a Saturtlay afternoon. It had to be a welcome performance for the much-maligned ND signal-caller. 
For those who are not satisfied with less than perfection, the game was not entirely fault free. Someone should tell the coach to stop passing out sticks of butter before the game--six fumbles with four lost could have been fatal had we not been playing a Sesame Street team. Maybe John Pont had the balls greased, figuring that was one of the few equalizers available. The other may have been a little one-sided officiatingby the refs which an Irish fan could be convinced was also the case. Both contributed to make the score closer than the play indicated. 
But lets keep the complaining to a minimum. We haven't had a game this one-sided since the national championship year. Now on to East Lansing anda shutout ofthe Big 10 in 1976. As for NU, they had better put in a three digit scoreboard for the Michigan game. 
The Fourth Strike-t couldn't overlook the fine job done by Woodrow Wilson Hayes in Columbus, Ohio Saturday. Perhaps it would be a nice gesture of our esteem to send congratulations to that personable old gent. Missouri 22, OSU 21. Ha, ha, ha. It couldn't have happened to more deserving guy. 










