
~----------------------------------------------~~! 
Mock Convention adopts anti-abortion plank 
by Phil Cackley ary schools and against the use of Anti-abortion speakers Caucus, said that Minter had Senior Staff Reporter busing to achieve racial balance in emphasized that life begins at informed him that only eight An anti-abortion plank was schools. A minority plank was also conception, because of the human persons were present at the accepted last night in a vote of 2 to accepted in support of busing. genetic make-up of the cells and meeting at which the Woman's I by the Platform Committee of the The planks will be presented to said that abortion not only has Caucus decided their position. He Mock Democratic Convention. the Mock Convention as part of the consequences of "immediate death asked how the Caucus could claim 
The decision came as the climax entire committee report. The for the unborn child," but also to represent the 4,QOO women of to an emotional one and a half hour delegates will then vote on whether poses danger to the mother. the ND-SMC community. consideration of the issue, which to accept the planks for the Maternal deaths due to abortion Joe Corpora addressed the com­included a dramatic roll vote and Democratic platform. have increased since the legaliza­mittee in favor of the anti-abortion speeches by members of NO Right The abortion issue was the final tion of abortion, one student said. bill, although the delegates were to Life, the ND-SMC Women's plank decided on at the meeting Pro-abortion speakers claimed somewhat unruly as he spoke. Caucus and the Black Caucus. last night. Two hours were spent the matter is one of personal choice There was a period of open debate 
A second proposal, described by discussing and voting on he matter, for the woman, said that unwed after the speakers were finished. its supporters as a "Pro-Choice" three tmes as much time needed mothers should not have to be The vote came after a short bill. was later adopted as a minority for any other plank. subjected to social pressures recess during which the delegates plank. Eleven speakers addressed the Ellen Minter, chairperson of the were given time to make their 
The committee also accepted committee in favor of the anti­ND-SMC Women's Caucus, pre­decision. The room was silent as planks to limit the use of electronic abortion bill and seven spoke for sented the Caucus' support in favor the suspenseful roll call vote was anti-abortion bill the crowd broke surveillance, to support financing the other bill during a one hour of the pro-abortion bill. Gene taken. When the decision was into sustained applause. 1f rivate, elementar and second-eriod of debate. Barry, a member of the Black announced 28 to 12 in favor of the (Cuntlnued on age 2) 



server 

university of notre dome -st. mary's college
Vol. X, 
1976 
Alcohol issue highlights 'Meeting' 
passed, he would look forward to a liquor license if the Indiana about enforcing the present sta­said that the Huddle would 
be having a "great bierstube in the drinking age were lowered. Fa­tutes." extended out over the pool room 
by GreJu~ Bangs 
Senior Staff Reporter 

Rathskellar." "If people drink in In the same vein, Student Body
ccenda said the University could and that a restaurant serving full Fr. Hesburgh would welcome the moderation, then it's good and I'm apply for a liquor license for the President Ed Byrne outlined a new plate dinners would be set up.
idea of having a bierstube or all for it,'' the university president Huddle now, but doubted it would plan to give hall councils jurisdic­Paczesny then held up an artist's 
winecellar in the Rathskellar if stated. "It would be a good place be passed because • 'the majority of tion over a public room in each hall conception of what the completed
there were a drinking law in to drink and nobody would get students on campus are underage to use at their own discretion. This project would look like. 
Indiana allowing eighteen-year­drunk. Like anything else, drink­and many Indiana legislators would would allow students to throw hall Fr. Hesburgh would welcome the 
olds to drink. ing in excess is bad," he added. think a eighteen-year-old would be parties but force them to accept idea of having a bierstube or Speaking at the town meeting, Hesburgh's comments followed able to sneak a drink." total responsibility for all damages, winecellar in the Rathskellar if held last night in LaFortune ball­University Counsel Dr. Phillip Fa­
A student raised the drinking he said. there was a drinking rule in Indiana 
room, Hesburgh said that if an ccenda's remarks that the Univer­issue in the opening minutes of the Earlier in the meeting during his which would allow 18 year-olds question and answer period, which statement, Paczesny announced to drink. was the second part of the town two news items regarding the Another news item brought up meeting's agenda. The first part Huddle. The first item announced during the meeting was that of consisted mainly of three minute was that during March Break, an Dean of Students James Roemer's statements given by members of ice cream counter stocked with policy of handling instigators and the Notre Dame faculty, student "the thirty-two flavors of Baskin­participants of food fights. "I find body and administration. The Robbins" would be set up within it obscene that two hundred stu­statement dealt with how the Notre the confines of the present Huddle. dents in celebration of a basketball Dame community could be better­The second item dealt with the victory have to pitch food at one 
ed. The affair, which was future of the Huddle. Paczesny (Continued on page 3) moderated by Faccenda, was then turned over to the 90-person aud­ience for the question and answer period. 
Br. Just Paczesny, Vice-Presi­dent for Student Affairs, answered the original question and turned to University Counsel Faccenda to explain the legal ramifications of drinking on campus. He said that the considerably more liberal drinking rules of two ye~~s .. ago "were completely wrong. We were lucky nothing happened then, because our policy of trying to have wider usage within the campus bounds would have gotten us into trouble,'' he pointed out. 
Faccenda said the efforts made last year in Indianapolis to push for a lower drinking age had gotten "our foot in the door." However, since nothing happened, the Un­iversity had to watch itself because the "state had shown it's serious 
St. Mary's party policy discusse 
by Mary Janca 

endering experience....
ident for Student Affairs Stevie 
St. Mary's Editor Wernig contends that the ban 

and refers only to parties with alcoholic couldn't make the prom because he ' Margie lrr beverages. 

had to go to San Diego as a finalist
Ass't St. Mary's Editor However, a majority of repre­
in a science contest. The day of the 
Besides the ban on parties. sentatives present at the meeting prom I came home from work .~oAssistant LeMans Hall Director said that the minutes, as they 
find a large chrysanthemWl bush
Cathy Matthews announced at last stand, are conect. 
with a note from my date. A littleSunday's Hall Council meeting that Discussing the ban, Huber not­
odd, I thought, but sweet. But
she and LeMans Hall Director Nina ed, ''I'm not announcing anything when my date called me that nightHuber will patrol the hall during new. As far as I've seen, the only to apologize again and 1 thankedparietals hours, looking for parties. parties that exist are parties with him for the chrysanthemum bueh.
If they discover a party, Mathews alcohol, and they have never been he told me that he had orderedthreatens to suspend parietals in allowed.'' 
yellow roses! His mother called the 
LeMans for the rest of the semest­Concerning St. Mary's party and florist to correct the error and iheyer. parietals policies, Wernig said 
Although the minutes of the "parietals are set up for small meeting fail to distinquish between gatherings. They are not up f?r a ban on parties where alcohol is parties. However, the system. IS served and one on parties in flexible enough so that the parties general, Assistant to the Vice-Pres-are allowed." 




·.., . ..:. . 
,., 

-the observer Friday, FebruaryU;-1976 
----News Briefs For Dining Hall workers 

b=================Nation~ 
Tear gas added 
VATICAN CITY -The Vatican has added tear gas bombs to the arsenal of the Swiss Guards, the colorful 90-man force that is the last of the papal armies. 
Their arsenal already includes submachine guns, rifles with 
bayonets and halberds, a combination spear and battle-ax with which they stand guard at the Bronze Door, the Vatican's main gate. 
._On Campus Today----... 
frldaJ, febl1lal"y 13, 1976 

12:15-1 p.m. -travelogue, "illiniois valley archaeology" by claire gordon, rm 278 galvin life sciences center. 
7 p.m. -meeting, women's soccer club, all welcome, Iafortune rathskeller. 
7:30 p.m. -hockey, nd vs. michigan tech, ace. 
8 p.m. -talent and fashion show, "black extravaganza," spons. by black cultural arts festival, stepan. 
8 & 10 p.m. -film, "sounder," spons. by black cultural arts festival, eng. aud., !1. 
9 p.m.-4 a.m. -coffeehouse, 9-p.m., jeannie o'meara and mike ball; 10 p.m., bill mahon; 11 p.m., joe klockenkem­per; 12 a.m., pete snake, smc snack shop. 
saturday, february 14, 1976 1 p.m. -basketball, nd vs. w. virginia, ace. 
7:30p.m. -hockey, nd vs. michigan tech, ace. 
8 & 10 P.m. film, "all the kings men," spons. by soph. lit. fest., 'eng aud., $1 
8:30p.m. -concert, "midwest chamber orchestra": violinists' showcase, featuring cora gordon, o'laughlin aud., $4.50 general, $2.50 students and sr. citizens. 
sunday, febraury 15, 1976 
9 a.m. 

exhibition, antique guns and artifacts, by northern -5 p.m. indiana gun club, ace $1. 
2 p.m. exhibitl~:u opening, "history of notre dame in art and photographs,'' notre dame art gallery. 
3 p.m. voice recital, by joan t. dwyer, smc Uttie theater. 
7:30p.m. -meeting, mock convention credentials comll).ittee, for committee members and state chairmen, 127 nieuwland. 
8 p.m. -'sophomore Uterary festival, jorge luis borges, 
washington hall. 

Today is deadline for registraion fee 
All undergraduate students pre­sently enrolled who plan to return to the University for the fall semester of 1976 must advance register at the Office of Students' Accounts, room 102 in the Ad­
*The Observet 
Night Editor: Dan SancheZ 
1
Assistant Night Editors: Mary Janca and Cbs:is Smith 
Layout Staff: Neal Mongold, Paul .Sdi"appler and_.Q~ie Joe Bau~ · ·. 
Copy !leaders: Mary Egan ~d 


Co-ed Hockey League is begun 
by Sue Lang staff reporter 

Paul Main, a graduate student at Indiana University and an emp­loyee at St. Mary's cafeteria, along with three other Indiana University graduate students, recently formed a coed ice hockey team among St. Mary's cafeteria employees. 
Main undertook this project to enable cafeteria employees to part­icipate in an extra-curricular act­ivity which their work hours other­wise prohibited. 
Main posted a sign-up sheet in the St. Mary's dining hall and was surprised at the number of enth­usiastic persons. He said at last count there were 48 interested, including 26 girls. While all the women attend St. Mary's, the men attend both Notre Dame and I.U.S.B. 
From the 48 participants, Main has drawn up four 12-person teams, captained by Laurie Cost­anzo, Paul Main, Nora McGrath 
and David Putnam.  These teams  
plan  to  hold  one  practice  on  
February  25  from  9:15p.m.  to  

10: 15p.m. and then stage a three week tournament amongst them-
Abortion highlights mock convention 
The committee spent another hour debating on the final form of the plank. 
The plank called for the adoption of a right to life amendment to the constitution as a last resort if all other legal methods of changing the present law fail, and the passage of legislation by Congress declaring the unborn child a person from conception on under the protection of the 14th amendment. 
Forced busing to achieve racial balance is well intentioned but misguided, according to the plank on busing. The plank called for increased neighborhood control of schools, redoubled efforts to im­prove education in poorer schools, and several other actions. 
A plank on privacy called for limitations to the use of electronic surveillance. 
About 75 persons attended the meeting which lasted four hours. 
The Platform Committee 'will meet today at 5:30 p.m. in room 127 Nieuwland to deal with the final issl'es of family planning, woman's and minority rights, re­habilitation, gun control, drugs and the Mid-East. All delegates are asked to attend. 
selves. Both practice and tourn­ament will be held in Howard Park on Jefferson Street in South Bend. 
After this tourney, which will be played under NHL rules, Main has expressed a desire to challenge Notre Dame's hall teams. 
He ultimately would like to raise funds from these challenges by either charging $.50 for admission 
or collecting donations.  Proceeds  
would go  to  the  Notre  Dame-St.  
Mary's commmunity.  

Main invites all Notre Dame and 
Town &country 
the best film of the year! 
TOWN COUNTRY II "NO DEPOSIT, NO RETURN" 
1:45 3:45 5:45 7:45 9:45 
SCOTISDALE CALl.. THEATRE 291-4583 
St. Mary's men and women to 
phone him (232-3796) ifinterested. 
He added that no previous exper­ience is necsessary, and only the enthusiasm and desire to play are required. Also, skates are not needed, since they can be rented for $.50. You must supply your own hockey stick. Transportation to Howard Park will be provided by Notre Dame students. 
The group still needs referees. 
qualified should contact 

BULLA SHED 
a warm spot on a cold day! 
ministration Building, during the 
Fred Herbst 1\\Mii~,;,.·.. ·~· 

JOIN US -meet new people ­
week of Feb. 9 to 13. Students at 
The Observer is published Monday
Day allor: Maureen Flynn 

through Friday Cl1d v-A!ekly during the
this time are required to make a 
Editori•l Page layout: Jim 

surrmer session, except during the
$50 deposit. 

especially if you have
exams Cl1d vacation periods. The
Eder1 \\•*~'' 

Observer is published by the students
The Office of Student Accounts is 
Features Page .layout: W. S. 

of the Univ. of Notre Dame Cl1d St.
open from 9 to 11:30 a.m. and from 
never come
Nichors-and Val Zurblis 

Nlary's College. Subsaiptions rrey be
1:30 to 4 p.m. 

purdlased for $18 ($10 per semester)
Typists: Marie McCarthy, 

This Friday and every Friday
fro"l'l The Observer, Box Q, Notre
Any student who advance reg­
Mary Tobin, Morey Blinder, 

Dame, lndiCI'la 46556. Second Class
isters after this period will be 
postage paid, Notre Dame, IN 46556.
Tom O'Neil and Martha 

Mass -Dinner 5:15 pm
charged a $10 late fee. 

,....................--......."-.Jf•••••••....••• r--------------------------,
1 COLLEGE EDUCATION iii GENERAL STORE I 
1 ,corner of Logan and Jefferson! ;l ''SALE DAYS ARE HERE!" l ; FINEST ; ~~ i 
... ... "t FEATURING: FADED GLORY t
: 24 HOUR RESTAURANT ii IN MICHIANA 1'I ALL MEN' WINTER COATS 30% OFF j 
: cateringto : rt SOME SWEATER & SJHRTS 20% OFF fr ,,-ND-SMC lATE NIGHT NEEDS i 'l OPEN: 10 to 9 MONDAY THRU ~-----1 
: FEATURING COLLEGIATE SPECIAL· : ,'t SATURDAY t t f,~,,t'J "JACK OMELET" J: 12 to 5 SUNDAY : 
*~''.'' * ·t t
! Daily Lunch Special Hamburgers i !t 1621 SOUTH BEND AVE· t f ~ BREAKFAST SERVED ANYTIME i I (BEHIND LINEBACKER) l I 
............................................ L-------------------------­



Friday, February 13, 1976 
the observer 



Off-campus burglaries show marked decrease 
by Bob Brink "I was surprised by the low A total of 19 student residences campus. This area has an extreme­area also has a high concentration Staff Reporter number of robberies over break," have been robbed during Decemb­ly high concentration of students; of students, but unlike the area 
Only nine off-campus burglaries said Palma. "As far as I new er and the first half of January. in the past it has shown an surrounding the local bars, it has occurred this year during the students were not leaving valua­Although the exact amount stolen extremely high burglary rate. not been the scene of many semester break, according to in­bles with faculty members or with is unknown because many students Three robberies occurred on Notre burglaries in the past. formation gathered by Darlene any organization, and with the high were unsure of exactly what was Dame Ave., one occurred on St. The other three robberies did not Palma, student director of off­concentration of students in certain taken, the Off-Campus Housing Peter St., and the fifth occurred on occur in areas of high student 
campus housing. areas I expected more robberies office estimates that over $5,000 St. Louis Blvd. concentration. because the students were gone." dollars worth of valuable was stolen Burglars also broke into a house So far this year 48 student
This number shows a marked Palma was unsure of the reasons during the month and a half span. on Cleveland St., which is located residences have been burglari:~ed.
decrease in the total burglaries 
for the decrease. "I can only to the southwest of the campus During the 1974-75 school year awhich occurred over the 1974-75 speculate," she said, "that maybe Five houses that were burglariz­beyond to St. Joseph's River. This total of 87 burglaries occurr,•d. 
semester break. Last year during 
students are using better crime ed during break are located in thethe Christmas break approximately prevention methods." nearby southern vicinity of the20 off-campus houses were robbed. 
THE 
1\nigf)t~
Minter defends pro-abortion plank 
NEW CONCEPT In hal.rstyllng for Men by Tom Byrne the community," stated Therese community. IOCA'JED on our lower level with Its 
own private entrance way.
Staff Reporter Bush, a leader of the local Right to "I wasn't aware of any poll about 
COMPU;TE PRIVACY In our Individual
Life movement. abortion," she declared. "Many styling units. Ellen Minter. head of the ND­Minter described the pro-life people make the mistake of SIP COFFEE by the flrepla~e In a n-laxed SMC Woman's Political Caucus, views as perfectly legitimate" thinking that a group like us is atmosphere. FAST SERVICE for ~arefree ~uts and
stated yesterday that the issue of adding, "they have a right to their supposed to be representative." 
blow styles.

abortion was "not very important" own opinion." she indicated that If accepted at the convention, the WE FEATURE RK products. 
to the group and asserted that their she had not received much nega­minority plank will become part of stand has been "misrepresented tive feedback personally as a result the final platform,. MANICURES for men $4 PRECISION CUTS $5 by the coverage in the Observer." of her group's stance. University 
HAIRCUTS $4 BLOW STYLING $4.50
Their position, however, was officials have not contacted her 
adopted as a minority plank last with regards to the matter. PERMANENT WAVING bv NATURAL MAN $25
Town meeting 
night at the Mock Convention According to Minter, the $1.00 OFF A PRECISION CUT WITH BLOW STYLING WITH YOUR NO OR SMC 10.
Platform Committee meeting. Women's Caucus consists of about (Continued from page 1)Opposition to the stance of the 25 members, with additional dele­
another," he stated. "The peop](
women's caucus last night was gates "sometimes wandering in." 

uttn'~ ( a~tlr ~v~~
who participated in these food
spearheaded by representatives of However, only 10 members of 
fights will not be threatened with 54533 TERRACE LANE ~ 
the ND-SMC Right to Life organi­this group, all from St. Mary's, being thrown off-campus, but will Tues., Wed., Sat. 8:30 . 5:30, : ..
zation. After lengthy debate the were present when the group voted clean out garbage cans," he an­Thurs. & Fri. 8:30 · 8:30group succeeded in having the on their platform. Eight of these nounced.
Platform Committee reject the ten voted to adopt a position in PHONE 277 -1691
In his opening statement, Assoc.
viewpoint of the Woman's Caucus favor of abortion, citing constitu­
Gov't Professor Peter Walsh hoped 
and incorporate an anti-abortion in tional and moral reasons. their proposed platform. Minter noted that the stand of for a decentralization of the Uni-




r•••---------------------. 
I don't think the position of the the caucus was not intended to be versity in a attempt to get away I RADIATOR iI' caucus is at all representative of representative of the views of the from a corporate model. Walsh said this breaking away from the I~ ~e ?at."rt."n.g
corporate model would have to take place in the halls. "Co-education is Saint Mary's Law Society non-issue. 1 I
a The quality of the I community is much more import-I uwE CAN HANDLE THE TOUGH ONES" I ant," he said. It is for this reason I SINCE lS22 I
to conduct officer elections the ''future of Notre Dame is in the II _ II 

by Karen Hlnks Staff Reporter 

The St. Mary's Law Society will conduct their elections for new officers on Feb. 29th. Positions for president, vice-president, secretary, treasurer, and publicity chairman, are presently open. Any St. Mary's student interested should submit her resume to Mozelle Delong by Feb. 20th. 
Resumes must contain general background information, G.P.A., campus activities, and extra-cur­ricular activities. 
The election committee consists of two senior officers and Deanna Sokolowski, assistant professor of St. Mary's English department. The committee will carefully review and evaluate each resume. They will then select individual planks and submit them to the society members will then elect the off­icers. 
''This process of evaluation is necessary", stated DeLong. "We need to insure some type of control because of the services we provide for the students", she added. 
According to DeLong, the St. Mary's Law Society allows its members to decide whether or not they want to apply to law school by exposing them to the avenues open to graduates. 
Women's soccer 
There will be a meeting for all tho.>e interested in joining the Women's Soccer Club, Fri., Feb., 13, at 7 p.m. in Darby's Place. 
halls. Unfortunately, right now 289 5850
It presents women with the 
they are nothing more than dorm-I 1 opportunity of becoming aware of 
itories, " he continued. I 1 the careers available by bringing 
Walsh thought that hall gov-both men and women lawyers in to ernment, which is currently run I I 
answer questions. Women speak 
solely by students, should also I ·I of the advantages and disadv­become a concern of the faculty. In I I antages encountered in their prac­this way, the students and faculty I I 
tice as lawyers. 
(Continued on page 5) I 

• CLEANING • RECORJNG I the chance to prepare for the LSAT 
The society also offers women 
• GAS TANK REPArRJNG
Three Stooges Follies 
I

and advises when it should be 
"TOUGH GUY" taken. In addition, members are 

Weldinq ·Healers I Starring /1/v:Je, t...arry, Curly 
6 Classic Shorts 

counselled as to which courses are 
Fleet Truck Contracts Welcome 
I

Ff\ & Sat. Feb. 13th& 14th 
good in preparation for law school. 7, 9, & 11 p.m. Morrissey Hall Chapel 
SAME DAY SERVICE I
Delong emphasized the fact that 50 cents
St. Mary's tries to get as many 
I 

deans as possible on campus for 
1136 MISHAWAKA I
interviews. She also stated that 
II

students from the Notre Dame law school attend meetings and speak 
"IF YOU HAVE A ROUGH TRIP AHEAD 
to the society about their various experiences. 
OF YOU, CHECK OUT THE I 
St. Mary's has a law library 
I 'TOUGH GUYS'." I
containing catalogues of over 160 
.._____________.. 
~----.-~---------=··------J.
law schools and are updated yearly. Those interested may contact President Mozelle DeLong 2-4354 

WANTED!!! 
Starts Friday 

Editor-in Chief of Dome '77 
"HUSTLE" 
Burt Reynolds 

SUBMIT APPLICATIONS (EXPERIENCE & 
Katherine DeNeuve 
PERSONAL STA.TEMENT) TO DOME OFFICE, Call Theater for 
3rd FLOOR LAFORTUNE. 
Times 

For More Info, Call Dana: 7524 OR 8067~
288-8488 

~~~~~~~ 

. ... ·-... --... ­

CALL ~P.''""~ 
:..'''-..:1 

FOR ~ 
APPOINTMENT IJIM HAMMES PLUG &POINT SPECIAl~
I $23 95 *
REGULAR ~
Off.er I PRICE S3&.2B •.. NOW • Plus Tax ~ 
explres I ln.sta~l New S~ark.Piugs, Points and Condenser, Retime Engine, Restrobe ~ ~ n1stnbutor. Pnce mcludes Parts and lbbor on 8 Cyl. Cars. ;.II ;.II lulll • 0~ lllltls •rrlct ~. V•r._• Otller labs ~
Ma rch 1St ............................................................,,,,...,. 

--~---~---~ 
Friday, February 13, 1976

4 the observer On science and ethics 
Bender participates in workshop 
Mike Villani 

Staff Reporter 1
Dr. Harvey A. Bender • Notre Dame geneticist and professor of biology, participated in a workshop on "Ethics and Human. Value Implications of Science and Tech­nology" last month at Lake Placid, New York. 
The meeting was organized by the Tissue Culture Associations W. Walton Jones Cell Science Center for scientists and administrators who are concerned about the use oi human tissue for research. Bender, who has a strong interest in biomedical ethics, joined other Ieading members· of the philosoph­these factors should be a determin-1 ant. In obtaining fetal tissue for research, Bender said, ''therapeuti abortions allow for such and the strictest controls and methods are used in acq'uiring them; 1 / 
Fetal tissue appears to be "very useful of great importance, and uniqu~ in human researc.h," acco~­ding to Bender. He attnbu~es thts; uniqueness to its. expenmentall value. In a genetic sense, fetal tissue is capable of a maximum SO passages, whereas human. tissue! only 15-20. Passages are dtfferent, and successive generations. Each. generation allow~ the scientist more study matenal. Due to fetal tissue's unique qualities, certain 
ical, legal and scientific c~m~u~i-1 advances in medicine were attained 
ties to analyze the sctentlst s • responsiblilities in obtaining and using human tissue for resea!ch. The topics discussed and Ideas shared concerned fetal research, informed-consent, and wete at­tempted to bring the.cross-disciplin­ary thinking of these three pro~es­sions together on these ongomg issues. 
On the subject of fetal research, Bender referred back one year to 
when he investigated human ex­
perimentation ~nd fe~al research while a moratonum existed on the subject. Questions he dealt with 
concerned when a fetus is non-liv­ing, how to obtain them for tissue research, and for what purpose 
would they be used. 

A broad study of these questions resulted in his conclusive opinion that a combination of factors deter­minewhetherornotafetusisalive.
He claims, "a consideration of heart-pulse, E.K.G. readings, res­piration and other deciding factors 
together are necessary to deter­mine a fetus functioning state." He stressed that not just one of 
Bender cites, •'the development of polio vaccines and the discovery of RHOGAM to immunize a child with a negative RH blood factor against the dangers involved with such. 
The scientists at the workshop all agreed with Bender that it is critical to do experiments and use fetal materials for the benefit of superior results in medical re­search. The ethicist faction felt an increased sensitivity to what's go­
ing on in fetal research, the moral
questions involved, and the ques­
lflfJf.Jf.Jf.Jf.Jf.Jf.Jf.lflfJf.JflfJf.Jf.lfJf.
* * 
*GRACIE *
* ' * 
* * 
! Hr .Ap•ny : 
lt ./1 r
* JUL Y ]7th f':: 
lt • * 
:-LO' 'E v.oU!!·:­
:: V, .1 1 ::
1

* * 
~ KEVIN ~ 
.,... .,... 
lt * 
*••••••••••••••••• 
~----------------,


i FRYE i iBOOTSi 
I I 
II YES, II 
I I 
IWE CARRY WOMEN'SI
I AND MEN'S I
iFRYE BOOTS i 
I I ti I
1 the best se ec on 1I in South Bend I 
I I 
I COME IN ,~
I' AND SEE I 
I • OUR SELECTION • I
I I 
I I 
I I, 



I ADLER'S i 
I Town & Country I 
I Scottsdale Mall I Open daily 10-9 Sun. 12-5 .I
' J L----------.-----­
tion of who decides what research is justifited. 
The legal concern arises with the :liscovery of new scientific ad van­~es and the problems that arise from such. These problems come about when medicine confromts our society with new situations that we've never faced before and must 
make sense out of. Our govern­ment can't anticipate these n.ew issues that need laws governmg their methods and purpose. 
According to Marshall S. Shapo, an attorney present at. the.work­shop, "there is very httle m the way of what a~orn~rs would call Jaw on the subject. The profes­sionals at the workshop grappled with this question and came to nO real decision because no. .real definition exists. Is it self-dectsto~? Is it a person's approval to have hts body explotied? 
According to the Nuremberg Code, adopted in the German War crimes trials, the subject. of exper­imentation "should be Situated as to be able to exercise fr.ee power. of choice, without thew mterventwn 
of any deceit, 
element of force, fraud, duress. 

-------------------------------..._ 



SUPERSTAR SALE 


On Columbia Records and Tapes. 
• Special orders filled promptly! 
919 B College Square

·---~ECORDS 
Mishawaka, Indiana 
Phone 255-0266 {across from Town & Country) 
•···cOLUMBIA." MARCA REG. 


MFSB PHILADELPHIA
FREEDOM 
including: The Zip/Get Down WithThe Philly Sound South Philly/FerryAvenue WhenYour Love Is Gone/Brothers And Sisters 

VALENTINE SPECIAL SKI WITH YOUR LOVED ONE 
SAT. 14th 5 P.M. TILL 9 P.M. 
COUPLES LIFT TICKETS $8.00 REGULAR $14.00 LESSONS -$2.00 PER PERSON IN GROUP OF 10 -REGULAR $4.00 
MICHELOB BEER -20¢ PER CUP FOR EVERYONE HAVING A LIFT TICKET AT 
ROYAL VALLEY SKI RESORT. 
FEATURING 11 RUNS, T-BAR, J-BAR, 5 ROPES ONLY 15 MILES FROM N.D. 
MAIN ST 

BUCHANAN, MI. 
BILLY PAUL WHEN LOVE IS NEW 
Including: 
People Power/America(We Need The Ught) I Wttnt 'Cha Baby/Let The Dollar Circulate Let'aMakeABaby 


) $4.99 ) RECORDS 
$6.29 TAPES 
TheO~ays 
Family Reunion 
including: Ilove Muaic/Livin' For The Weekend 
Unity/YouAndMe 


including: TSOP (The SoundOf Philadelphia) Free Ride/living For The City When Willi SeeYou Again/love Train 
liD I 

·~­
€AmH,WINDbA~ 
Gratitude 

Slngasono/~~':/~/Devollon 
~ 
Friday, February 13, 1976 
the observer 5
.:_c......::_.:.....___--=._ 

S.B. City Council advised by two ND Law Grads 
Their one year contract, effective by Jane Neff Feb. 1, retains them,in addition tostaff reporter 
the City Attorney's Office, to respond to the City Council'sTwo women graduates of Notre needs. "We'll draft ordinancesDame's Law School were recently and resolutions and give legal advice retained by South Bend City Coun­in many areas such as fire andcil to aid in its legal work. 
police, pension programs and ins­Kathleen Cekanski and Jeanne urance," commented Cekanski.
Schwartz, attornies in the firm of She previously served as DeputyCekanski and Schwartz, founded City Attorney and feels this exec­South Bend's first women's law utive experience will benefit her infirm in 1975. 
Faculty speak at meeting 
(Continued from page 3) 
would become closer. 
He would also have a student's 
academic requirement undergo a 
drastic revision. "I would have one 
quarter of the student degree in 
seminars and tutorials," he ex­
plained. "A student would also 
take four courses of four credits 
each instead of five courses of three 
credits because the present system 
makes the student carry a very 
heavy burden," he added. 
In the question and answer 
session. Walsh explained that by 
having a better faculty-student 
relationship. the series of issues 
raised at the meeting could be 
better dealt with. 
Carole Moore, vice-chairperson 
of the SLC and Asst. Professor of 
History, thought "Notre Dame has 
to remember why it's here. We 
shoul~ not be antagonistic towards 
each other. Instead we should 
work to be a community," she 
commented. 
She said that group's "are 
always confronting each other, 
whether it's faculty-administration, 
administration-student or boy­
girl." Examples given by Moore of 
the boy-girl confrontation were the 
way in which dormitories have 
been allotted and the way women's 
and men's athletics seem to be at 
odds. 
Diane Merten, a member of the 
COUL committee, also concerned 
her statement with co-education. 
She thought the focus of education 
should be explained to affect both 
men and women. Merten thought 
there were too many barriers 
seperating men and women .at 
Notre Dame and suggested many 
of the formal and informal stopgaps 
be broken down. One suggestion 
given by the Walsh RA was a 
lessening of security in residence 
halls" to make it easier for people 
to drop in and visit." 
The subject of parietals was 
mentioned as one of the barriers 
that could be broken down. Byrne 
said that students wanted "the 
experience of enforcing a timetable 
of our (students!) own." Hesburgh 
doubted that the parietal issue 
would be looked at favorably if 
brought before the Board of Trust­
ees again. "The hours have 
changed four times in the last six 
years. I doubt they'll be changed 
a~ a in for awhile." he commented. 
Hesburgh , the last to make a 
statement in the first phase of the 
program, thought he'd like to see 
the University to be a "caring 
place.'' 
Hesburgh had only one bad 
recollection of the present year. "I 
was disappointed that the most 


JULIO'S 
NOW HAS 
PAN 


PIZZA!!! 

excited arguement a student could give me was about the calendar issue. I should hope we can care more about other things in the 
SUNDAY MASSES 
(Main Church)  
5:15 p. m  Sat.  Rev. Robert Griffin, C.S.C.  
9:30am Sun.  Rev. L.'harles Faso, O.F.M.  
10:45 a.m  Sun.  Rev. James FlaniJ:?;an, C.S.C.  
12:15 p.m Sun.  Rev. Bill Toohey, C.S.C.  

Evensong will be at 4:30 P.· m in lady Chapel. Homilist will be Rev. James Shilts, C.S.C. 

,-----------------------------------·
i 
I I I I I I 

i 
I 

II 
II I II 
1
I 
I
I
1
1
I 
I
I 
I 
I 

PHONE 232-7919~ 
advising City Council, the firm's igates the status of women within largest client. the community and attempts to 
In addition to the Notre Dame, promote women in city govern-women, Mayor Peter Nemeth and ment, according to Oifford. the City Council have appointed 11 During his mayoral campaign, other women to serve South Bend Nemeth promised to make a con-in government capacities. Sr. scious effort to place women in Raphael Marie Oifford, decision-making positions. He chairperson of the Community feels he is fulfilling this goal and Relations Committee of the South states, "In the future, as positions Bend Commission on the Status of become open, women will be Women, explained that the Com-favorably considerec:!_." 
mission provided roster blanks td r---....~;jpiiiiiii~···P-~....~~·~ 
any woman interested in serving in city government. 
After accumulating thirty-five completed rosters, the Commission presented these forms to the when vacanc;ies arose. Now Paula Auburn, the city's new personnel manager, handles these rosters. The Commission invest­





a1lhak i 
I I I I I I 




$65.80 i 
I STEREO EXCELLENCE 1 BY REALISTIC® I FOR THE MUSIC-MINDED I 
COMPONENTS SOLD SEPARATELY ... 554.80 

.;~'....,~,to. 
...:~

SYSTEM 
!',,!.. ..,,
() i()' 
• 
Realistic STA-90 AM-FM Stereo Receiver with Two Tape Monitors

• 
Two Realistic Optimus-2B Walnut Veneer Bookshelf Speaker Systems

• 
Realistic LAB-12C Automatic Changer with Base and $12.95 


Value Magnetic Stereo Cartridge 
cHAHCE'IT ··!.~
At Radio Shack 

Dr. Lillian Stanton, a member of South Bend's Police Merit Board feels officials are making a start towards hiring women for city government positions. "Not many," she commented, "have top level jobs though." 
Recent posts filled by women include memberships on the Board of Public Safety, Area Planning Commission, and Task Force on Drug Abuse. 
J NOW SHO~~~aris2024.J
UZA GENE MJNNEI.JJ BURT 
a future youll probably l1ve lo r.ee 
;:~~\
-. {1..: . ..)!,>
~GJ • ~o.IJ.-. ·.~ 't<: 
Weekdays . 7 :00· 9 :20 Sat.Sun.-2 :15-4:40-7:10 
Sat.Sun.-1 :45-3:45-5:45 
9 :40 (Sorry no passes) 7:45-10:00 p.m. 
SPECIAL MIDNITE SHOWS-FRI & SAT ..ME FoNdA 
~ 
DO HER THING I 
REDUCED PRICE! 
II
I 

'~ ... ' ... ---··-----­
fro\' 

~~:.. ! .....:.~--~···~......~ 
It " • ll • • "' ,,. •••• 
,ttl)

""""'•....__,_.......,_~_..u,, ___,-,.._. • 
•...,., i:>:#:...:·· 
II
• {\) .. 00 . 
I I 




SCOTTSDALE MALL ;; 
I
I I
1
1 
~ 
I
I 
I 

0:::§"~ 
....._____________ 

Frida 


a VD remembrance of those disasterous proms 
I'm not Mar!J or Chris 

The foUowlng Is recounted with the permission of the vUiain: 
Last year my date for the hall spring formal turned up already drunk and past the gregarious stage. So much so that he wouldn't mingle at the pre-prom party, but insisted on sitting out in the hallway and talking about his late grandfather. On the way to the , dance, we stopped by his room to· pick up his overcoat, but before we 1 left he insisted on reciting all twenty-seven stanzas of "Elegy Written in a Country Churchyard" by Thomas Gray. 
My date became very depressed at the prom and, with tears in his eyes, told my how much he missed everyone in his hometown. He also insisted that a girl from his high school was sitting over in the corner of the room. "She's not really there, I know--but she's laughing at me!" 
About midnight my date asked me, "Mary, do you have a ride home?" My name is not Mary, I live on campus and we were in the ACC. He apologized for the mistake, but fifteen minutes later he asked, "Chris, how are we getting back to St. Mary's?" My name is not Chris and I go to Notre Dame. About then I decided it was 
time to go home. "Mary Chris" 
Chocolate pie fight 
In Louisville, Ky., they have nice normal plans like everywhere else, but oh not mine! Little did I know what awaited me. After parking the car in the nearest garage, and toasting the night with champagne, my date and I headed for the prom. Suddenly, at the entrance to the garage, she screamed "look out," 
and I looked up to see a chocolate­cream pie. 
As I ran up floor after floor of the garage, I didn't believe that sht had picked this night to pay me back for the pie I had thrown I had thrown at her some time back. Fortunately, near the top of the garage, I found some stairs that exited on the main street, and I was able to escape. I really looked ridiculous running up the middle of Broadway in my tux and sqeaky, patent-leather shoes, but I felt victorious for I had escaped. 
At the hotel, I expected to find my date waiting for me, but she wasn't there. But moments later she came walking up covered with-­guess what?--chocolate-cream pie. She was crying and I really felt like a non! 
After she got most of the pie off of her hair and halterdress, we actually laughed at our misfortune and enjoyed the rest of the dance. 
Tall date 
I used to go to this really snooty girls' school which had a co-ex program with an equally snooty boys' school. I had a class at the other school, so I used to ride this b 
bus back and forth. There was this 
one guy I would see on the bus all 
the time and we used to talk until 
he had to get off. One day he told 
me that his class formal was 
coming up and he wondered if I'd 
like to go. I said yes, and we talked 
about it until he had to go. A few 
days later, I saw him for the first 
time someplace other than the bus. 
I had never stood next to him 

felt when I found I was seven inches taller than he was!!! Poor-Posture Prom Date 
Tough date 

I usually had trouble finding 1 up with one of her friends for prom dates in highschool and a · insurance. When we got to the couple of my attempts were real ball, my friend and I got together classics. One time I called this guy with another friend of ours to find to ask him to a christmas· formal and company in our misery. When we he told me he couldn't go that night , got the chance, we snuck out of the 
before, so~ can imagine how I


r··riMM·p·xRrv·s·raifF!···!
!OPEN: MON-SAT 9am-11pmi : SUNDAY 12noon -1 1 pm : i COLD BEER,WINE, LIQUOR, ! i GORMET FOODS i : 3114 S. 11 St. NILES, MICHIGAN:
! "BIGGEST LITTLE : :••••J...I9.tls:lfi.~1.9.1Sf..IJi.M~Y.IiiQAt\: ••••; 
because he had to help a friend of his mother's decorate her tree. I had to resort to the fix-up committee in the end, and they scrounged up a classmate's cousin 
who went to college in Nebraska. The morning of the dance, one of 
the girls called to tell me that the Midwest had been hit by a blizzard and my date's flight had been 
cancelled until the next day. Jane 
Driues crocked Mom 
My date's mother drove us to the Junior Prom because I only had a Jr. Operator's license (I couldn't drive after 8 p.m. without a licensed driver in the car) and my date didn't have any. While we were at the dance, though, my date's mother waited in the rest­aurant's bar. By the end of the dance, she was so thoroughly crocked that I had to drive her home. (The law does not stipulate that the licensed driver be con­scious.) 
DaHawk 
Real jock 

I went to a prom that was a real disaster--for the girl I was taking. We had been going together for a long time, but we broke up the week before her Sr. Ball. I still took her, but I fixed one of my friends 
ballroom to my car, sat and drank. The more we drank, the more miserable we got and the fewer reasons we could think of for hanging around. So we left. We went driving around looking for a lake to go swimming in and finally found one. We took a very short and very cold dip and then decided to go play basketball. changing our tuxes for sweats, we grabbed the basketball I had in my trunk and headed for the schoolyard. It turned out the schoolyard was just a couple of blocks from the house where they were having the after­prom party, and some people on the way there saw us in the schoolyard. So there we were at 
3:30 in the morning, having a great time, when these three girls come storming into the schoolyard... 
Da Hawk strikes again 

·~---~--==-...,~----"':"'.:....--::-;--:--:;:-----,
E .tor .I n ch.I ef
I • •
Th Qb • •
e server IS accepting
applications for the post 
The Observer Editorial Board an·d Night 
Editors will elect the next editor-in-chief 
on Tuesday Feb. 17 Interested students may submit resumes to Terry Keeney at The Observer office, 
too floor LaFortune Student Center OeadlineTODAYFeb. 13 at 5 .m. 
Classified Ads 
WANTED 

Need 3 Marquette tix. Jack, 3597. 
Three girls need ride to lndia"Japolis, Feb. 20 or 21. Call 4662. 
Need tw:> West Virginia Basketball tix. Call Joe, 6740. 
Salesmen, part-time, irrmediately. In· tangible sales, conmissions. Call AIMS 277-2922. 
Need rniYlY WMU tix!! Call 233-9841, after 11 pm. 
Desperately need 1 GA ticket for W. Va. Call Mary, 5480. 
Desperately need  Marquette  tix,  Call  
Dorothy,  277  
1838.  

NNED WORKERS FOR MOCK CON+ VENTJON. to print poster . replicas of old political buttons-for Stepa1 walls. 
Need IMlrkers trom now until Marm 1. If ~u Cil1 help, call Na1cy, 1365. 
Need 4 GA West Virginia tickets. Call Maggie, 5408. 
Need t1Ml West Virginia tickets. Mary, 1285. 
Desperately need one or 2 GA Marquette tickets. Call Bob, 1214. 
Desperately need 1-4 GA Western Midli· ga"J tickets. Good rroney. Call Dan, 3526. 
Need 6 GA West Virginia tickets. Call Tom, 3527. 
Need GA a1d student tickets for Mar. quette badly. Aease call Pat, 1654. 
WANTED: GA tickets for Ma-quette. Call Tom at 7781. 
Need one or tw:> tickets to Saturday's KC Valentine's da1ce. Call Tim at 288-4217. 
FOR SALE 

For Sale: 8 GA Ma-quette tickets. Best offer.;. Greg, Jim, 1578. 
Nikko rmat FT2, 50 rml-fl.4, $275; TEAC 360·A Cassette deck with Dolby, $170; 234-6535. 
FOr Sale: 1968 Dodge Charger, 319, automatic, po~M!r steering. Great condi· lion. Show tires a1d Mag v.kleels incl. $00.00. Call 272-1710 or 272-4777 after 5:30pm. 
FOR RENT 

SUI"TlTEr rental . super rates for houses or rooms. Real close to caf"TlluS a1d furnished. Call 233-2613. 
Five and six bedroom houses for rent . for next sdlool yeCI". Excellent condition, close to carrpus. Cof"Tllletely furnished. Call 233-2613. 
LOST& FOUND 

Lost: 10 card, 731 226 637, call1340. 
LDST: BLUE 3-JRJNG BINDER NOTE+ 
BOOK. Call 28&-2618. LDST: 1973, Lake Superior State College dass ring behind law Building. Yellow gold, Fraternity syrrtx>Js on stone, inside initialsofW.J.A. Call Bill AITnitrong, at 288-4349 or law Building. 
Large reward for retum of Rockwell Slide Rule Calculator taken from Arkie Bldg. Mike, 8859. 
NOTICES 

TYPING: $.35 per page. Ack-up a1d delivery, $2.00. Call Dan, 272-5549. 
IB/1!1 Selectric II typing. Ma1uscripts, dissertations. Experienced, 289-5193. 
MORRJSSEYLDAN:$20-150. 1 day wait. 1 percent interest. LaFOrtune, M-F, 11 :125· 12:15. 
Accurate, tast typing, Mrs. Donoho, 232-0746. 
Fbsitions open · Student Union. !W:>vie Orga1izer. Apply to secretary, 2nd floor LaFOrtune. 
WOMEN'S BASKETBAU. GAME: TO­NIGHT, FRIDAY, IN THE AUXlUARY GYM. EVERYONE COME OVER AND GIVE THE GIRLS THE SUPPORT THEY DESERVE. 
PERSONALS 

LET YOUR LDVE RDWER!! Rowering plants for Valentine's Day delivered to their door.;tep on cai'Jl)Us. South Dining Hall, MWF, 5-6:15, North Dining Hall, TT, 5-6:15. 
Got a question about alcohol? Or a problem? Call ~gy Barnum, 8809, Alcohol Counselor, University Infirmary. 
Did ~u see that picture in the O:lgbook? If ~u didn't get a 0oogbook a1d \Mluld like one, come to the Student Union, MWF, 1-3 pm. $2. 
Some Of our best friends <re gay. Gay Coll'l"TJ.Jnity Of Notre Dame. Hotline, 8870, Fri. a"Jd Sat, 8-10 pm. Or 'Mite, 
P.O. Box 206. 
the Quickie runs this Friday night from the Main Circle, 8:30, 9:00, 9:30, 1 ;:00, 11:00,12:00.12:30,1:00,1:30. $.75toran all night pass. 
MOCK STOCK MARKET-Feb. 2 -Feb. 
27. Old Business Bldg. 10 am-3 prn Mon. thru Fri. Win $100, $50, $25. Sponsored by the NO Finance Club. 
Fra1 Demarko Says: Any FreshrniYl, Sophorrore, Junior, Senior, wishing to continue with dance lessons may do so. Classes every Tues. eve. -7:30-9:30. $2 eacn dass. 
Unde ChCI"I ie says that there is rrore that there is rrore going on in 336 Walsh than ever,-one thinks. O:J ~u know v.klat that 
is????? 
Weight Watmer.;' Of Notre Dame have a lot of dead 'Neigh! lying around. Meeting every night at 12 midnight tor free counseling, pasta. CAll Mama "B" 
6798. ' 
,.-------------~-~-1 








LOVE NOTES 
Loving sediments to my herrless albino
I' low you wittle girl. wittleboy 
trout. Dear K.O. Mepu MoiM): To the Cutest Rhino 1'\le ever seen. 1may not want to be your husband. l.DIIe,Ms. M.S. want to be 'JQUr Valentine instead. KittyDear Hotdog, Greetings from the U.N. You're next! LD~~e, Thanks for everything. Happy Valen­Your 500 friend A-eppy Oh Goofy Clementine, tine's Day. Would 'JQU believe I'm not 
Won't 'JQU be mv Valentine? hungry? HE: Plt·tobagganing-Ansia. McKuens­
Wizard, XXOMartino LDw, We've only just begun! Loving 'JQU rrore I love carrots, especially hot one. HUD. 
THE 

s. each day ... Love, Dear Toots, 
Her Bunny I'll meet you on an Alpine hill for a Dear Sugarplum. Valentine's kiss. Would 'JQU canoe with me on Valen­Val, 
Nancy & Debby, John 
tine's Day? You are so beautiful. 
Beel no forget Valentine Cl<ly. He sayLow, l.DW, 'JQU don't pay him no mind. Happy Miss Becky,
OBSERVER
The Eiagle Bay Kid Stew Valentine Day, Honey! Be my Valentine forever! I Beel l.DIIe, I 
Country Girl, Kathy, 
the tresh guy from Kewanna Happy Valentine's Day. Thanks for the My life has rome to a stop. Be my 
Mike-

lessons. Valentine. 
Thanks for all. To Mitdl the Bltdl, Peanut Butter Kid Nick Hap V Day. 
Happy Valentine's Day to the studious How Injun, Rick Lane, 
WISHES John 
Uma jufTl)ing bean (jufTl)ing Uma Be my Valentine or me scalp 'urn.. I want 'JQU and need 'JQU. Amy, bean?)! SeaJnd.hand nets dleap. Chief Wannamarryme LDw, Get well quidr. Lots of love. Barefoot dancer Mom 

"Zeus", 

Hey Dude· Happy Weekend, low. Thedlase is on. Motormouth, To all my Nixes: Think lhtlat 'JQU 
:I
Here's to 'JQU, as good as 'JQU are, and Mary Shelley I'll always be listenin' 'cause there's missing. that's good enough for me . (take it for always the fear that if 'JQU're not smilin' 
WER lhtlat it's oorthl. Happy Valentine's Day. Jane, I'll get doused with a beer. 
LDw, Thanks for catdling me on the stairs in You're numero uno, boab. HAve a Graaaate 24th year. Pizza's on 
YOU 

L..aHerrtJra Badin last spring. 1see the light. Will "The Great Ustener" me tonight. 
P.S. You may be easy, but 'JQU're not 'JQU be my Valentine? ,AP dleap! LDve,C.D. Kathy, Margo, Sue & Carol, Haven't seen ya in alhtlile. Come up­Peoria GM, K.R, K.A., S.O., J.T., LM., Bets, to the 'brary & see me some time. Happy Helius must go East, too. 
THANKS FOR EVERYTHING YOU The only thing better than ire aeam Valentine's Day! But patience is a virtue. HAVE OONE FOR ME +WOULD YOU and popmm is a good night kiss. A friend Lover No.2
A 

ALL PLEASE BE MY VALENTINES? Meldlor Ocampo Happy Valentine's Day, Midlael Charles. WITH Y'ALLON MY SIDE. HOW CAN I " I'll always be 'JQUr honky-tonk ooman. Happy Birthday, Reb! HELP BUT MAKE IT THROUGH. Dear Goofy, 
Love Princess Sparkle, sparkle with JB! 
LOVE. Your smile is Hubblic. Happy Valen. ren and rerrby MM tine's Day. Happy Valentine's Day, Jirrmy. Hubbll, toad, diester Love and Kisses, I ain't lookin' to mmpete with 'JQU, beat 
Tom Moffitt, Fadoe or dleat or mistreat 'JQU, sifTl)lify 'JQU, I was good for a Ripper, dassify 'JQU, deny, defy, or crucify 'JQU. ---, wasn't I? What's the smop on the poop? Be mine Happy Valentine's Day to the men in my All I really wat to do, is, baby, be friends 
Madame X Debit life: Joe, Ardlie, Waldo. with 'JQU. Camille Wehrman, .Love, Signed, I think I'm in low. "Wishin' 'JQU were PUerile Pete, Vicki Mr. Mystery & here'~. When can I see 'JQUr curly hair? Happy Intrigue Jr. ClodMonit VD! Teacher, The Virago Will 'JQU be our Valentine? Howdy · HI, Tirrmy. Marshmellow, DifTl)les and the turtle If 1stick one in 'JQUr ear, will 'JQU follow f«lger Ramjet, W. Skeffington Higgans, me anylhtlere? Be mine for calesthenics at 6:45. Ceil, After 4 years the answer Is YESI Handsome Sugarplum Happy Valentine's Day, Mom We Sally & LDretta miss ya. Take are & rome back soon. Jello, Dear Snooks, The Observer Staff. Hey LG.F.N.J. There's always room for 'JQU and '~Qur Happy V. Day, Hope to see 'JQU at UNC It'll take 4 weeks to the Lee Shore. Happy oonstant wiggle. next year. BANShEE TRix. Valentine's Day anyway. Handsome Love, Aops Happy V. D.! Whidl Bard? M·A-N. (Sound the keg I I DEB: MPO: There once was a wry wild Tigger Happy Valentine's Day to the Blue Pig . CONTINENTAL WON'T HAVE ME.•• 
Happy Valentine's Day! I've still got lhtlose friend for 2 years was a jigger with the pink tail. WILL YOU?? that free drink mming and I think 'JQU still lhtlen out of the blue The little orange dog with LOVE. need a Count of Monte Gritzbe Sand· came '~Qung Baby lbl the pink bow TOM IM1 len (with lots of strawberry jam). and made his horizons ail that nnudl O:ln R·R. Hey Snookurn;, Think we muld get together on this? bigger Beeber. I guess this is the only Valentine you'll 
Be my Valentine. 

get from me before The Event OCXlJrs, so SnarfflesThis is only the beginning! 
k.c.n. dlerish it. I will still talk fo you. HappyTo all of my Lemon Babies (Cute, A"etty, -Verge Christina.
Valentine's Day.LDvely,Sexy, Marvy, ... ): Of all the ladies . 
Bilm, me 
Of all the lasses . To my fair Lady Alire, Happy valentine's DAy! 'Cause 'JQU're so cathy and Colleen; Of all the queens .
A special thanks to a beautiful person. 'I shall stay thy dragons special. Qooh. v.tlen do I rolled the A day for princesses, I'd pick youll
Happy VD cutie! 

LDw, Snoopy
If thou shalt be my Valentine v.Day kisses? OK, enough tooling and muntesses and kings, TheSUndMce 
Your Knight in Shining Arrrour around; now back to studying. You're the spireWho Sse?-.----------Dear Julie,
P.S. Great Bagels 

Of all those things. Butdl and Sundance 
Happy Valentine's Day to fT'II' Best To the government major, Cavanaugh Trash babies: 
Buddy. TO DARLA IN SEARCH OF DIOGENES, We love 'JQUr strictly low rent lounge To the Belgian: LD~~e, John The Countess requests the honor of CAPT. AMERICA, JOHN THE BAPTIST act. Come get 'JQU SP4M. "Can't get True love has found a way being 'JQUr valentine. AND A REAL HUNK: WAKE UP AND enough..." But it's a auel bend of fate Son of Leon . SMELL THE COFFEE. That you'll structurally mange Yes, I really 00 like IM'IIskey sours. Sincerely, LOVE US THIS WEEKEND FOR REAL?) Cathy Lee, While I'll depreciate. Every night is Viking night with the 
The Thoroughbred TOM Wear a different dress on Saturday! Your ACXDUiltant Queen. Happy V. D. Low, To the llliiKfnnum. Duck Dear Harold, Jol!nle 
B.A. B. You're nun"ber 1. Happy Valentine's 
Tell your daddy that this Is his last Baby Blue Eyes, Mary Beth, Day. Patrida, dlanre to get his daughter In a fine You're the cream in my coffey. Happy Valentine's Day from me. (Only LDw, Agnes If EC., Todd, and The Eiagles can't romance 'cause the dining hail gave me a HVD I know of level 6). make It Milly 14th, don't despair. There's huge advance. Sweetie, always Hope <and Mldlael). Happy 
V-day.

Happy Valentine's DAy You're v.tlat's happening 1 Happy Val­
Dearnm B.,

Low, entine's Day. Love, ''Feartess''
Happy Valentine's Day!
TO THE RED-HAIRED KID-++

Ben Love, Your lblmie
LDw, Next Semester's Newslady 
I HAVEN'T FORGOTTEN YOUR FACE. Spumoni Lady, I'll take a lifetime supply of yours.
Babushka, A SECRET ADMIRER Happy Valentine's Day. I low you. s.
Dear VIrgo, 

O:ln't be stubborn? Be my Valentine! 
I wnder if the moon still shines so bright Barri>i
Low, Aries 
Dear ~II. Food memories the years will span Captain Wrongo, Happy Valentine's Day to the IT1)5t 
O'er the hog farm late in the night. 
Dear Brian, 

of the night that I VAN and I VAN and I Radio free lewis broadcasts Valentine's Thanks for listening, helping me, You must be doing something right. beautiful, sincere, caring girl 1haw ever Happy Valentine's Cl<ly. knovln. You haw surpassed all of my
VAN greetings to all cavanaugh turkeys Valentine! 
Your Jem dream;. Ooohhll I low you
Low, Crazy 
P.S. What do you think about that? W. Harold Sweetheart, 
Hot CoCo, 

Judy, Ding,
Moose, You are not only a fine person, but a
No question, I low you What are the CHANCES of our getting You're the girl my heart desires. Now,
Old friends never die. fine friend as well. 
together? you've got to keep It that WilY.
O:luble D they just get lazy (me) H.V.O. 
Love, SnoMo 
R"'lnk 
P.S. Where's the rups? To the Madlo Man,
Dear 1022 w. 26th, 

Happy Valentine's Day! Love Y'alll Chip, 
Happy Valentine's Day. You will Let's celebrate tonight! Sorry about ... Meet me next year lhtlen they're gonealways be dose to my heart.
My D.S.I.A. & W, the Trucks for a little "sports". Till then, HappyLow, "Breakfast in Bed" 
Valentine's Day.

1know It's no big mange, but I'm stili Betty S.P (my fawrite late night sweet­
psydled. No rrore petals, just one Snarffles: Waiting In Antidpation
heart): Ex-Con in 215 Farley:
blushing rose. Cyahclga.s~t means 1 When do you want fo elope? Happy
It really Is Spring.

low you. Valentine's Day! Bnie,
One of these nights there will be a knock HappyV.day 
Low, Snookurn; Got any rrore good stories? If you do, on the door ... late at night of murse! 
P.S. How will you feel at 3:10 this I'll buy you a beer at Corby's and even
YOUr!iOO Candyre,
afternoon? Honey Bunny, throw In some pretzels. Heeven. Happy
LD11e that "Southern Hospitality".
Your oorthv.tllle Let's watdl some sports together soon. Valentine's Oily.
Happy Valentine's Day and many rrore. are to A A1end of a Aiend
T.T. My teeth adllng for something
LD~~e, Biwer
f\llax & Shirley: bite. Happy Valentine's Day, Sugar­Happy Valentine's Day to my too cakesI (O:ln't folllet )001' glovlesJ. There once IMIS a girl namad ~yre.
Love,

fawrlte people. Can't wait to see 'JQU. P.W.V. Who had quite a fine alto wire,
MPO: 
This Valentine's Day weren't together. 
She purred In my ear,You gi11e me Ul'lder.itanding, warmth and Let's stay that way forever. 

SOftness and help me to believe that the Dear lblmies, Dearest Trlsh: And v.nat I happened to hear, I'8IISOfl for life Is for each one of us to For Valentine's Day -Late Night LDw forever, Happy Valentine's Day to the dasslest fl/lilde me think she IM!IS a "real fine"
Bles., G819 
grow In low. I low you Bltertainment Featurig: Top of the girl on CiiiT1JUS. dlolce. Kalz World (our newest), My Analyst Told Me Love, Gr"eet c.
Bisrult, 

My Darllnlcs, As Benihana says, It rarey johns
and our old fawrite, The Way w Were! 
Dear Anne Renee, If you ll'e bad, a freak will 5\\00p lor Isthe Singer 
Ji..a: awared and oore medals, yarn, jade, You'll always be No. 1 on my roster. then is next stop Diego? 
P. S. Aerosol cans don't f11a1<e good Happy Valentine's Day, Miss CarTllus It scoop?) dowl on you. miaophones. 
Celebrity. If you ll'e good, )011 will all get flowenSkraz Anagram ThUI'T1lef (thanks to hanS).
Love, Coffeypot 
OBS, AP, SKIZ, MT, GUI, AERO+Debbie, SPACE. CHUGGER. MO, il'ld all the
LOVE NOTES CONT. 
Happy Valentine's DAy to mv s\Wef­others that have made mv life \Mlat it is
heart. 

Wittleboy today--thanks a lot! il'ld Happy Valen­To the ITiil'l with the apple tabacx:D and his The Wednesday Night Rlil'ltom. tines Day, too. In case ~u don't Suzia, rute lttle side kick. the date eater. Ntay all Your soft lips are red, Moans: understand, here's a due: the audience is 
"Dime buzi?" mv god-dlildren be CDITI.Ipt to the state of Suggestive of love, There's a girl I know... En joy -,oor still someiMlat offended. Marek oblivion! It makes life that mud1 rrore But, we've got the notion weekend. 2-14-76 fun. Much love to -,oo both il'ld thanks for You're pure as a dove Your toothbrush friend all the good times. Love Sundil'\ce, 
Yogi The Pang Gang To the ITiil'l with the size 9 ski boots: -,oo After all the sin we've had I was hoping 
Baine Boyte, mght as well give up on the boots--they The E Tree hopes the K. Bear's feasts re You make Child Psych v.orth don't even have the right phone number
that we'd tum bad. I don't Wil'lt to be too pert, 
happy and jo~us forever. attending! anyrrore. Happy Valentine's Day, il'ldMikhail But this gal's d~CII"Tlte in a skirt. 
don't let an~e get -,oo drunk under the She's quite a good eager, 
A-end Bwish R&C a HV il'ld hope A, T AnAdmrer pretence of a Valentine's dinner pcrty.
Konie, Also double-major. We're just f'Ml lost sould swirrming in Those legs belong to Mert. 
rroves to SB, 1soon. a fish bowt, yeer aft~ veer. wish -,oo Happy Valentine's Day Bobby, Bernie, Tex & "Rush,"
T, To Ken G. of Keenan:
were here. By the way IMlidl one is pink? Rum. water, spices, il'ld egg Your very ov.11 personal Valentine from 
Tioyd Breaking up is fun! Let's do it again. Here is ~ur 0v.11 personal Valentine to
an old buddy. Hope -,oor day is full of
HappyV DAy put ~u one up from last ye;rs oount.
To Daffy, hearts & shaving aeam. 
A Show this the guys in Keenan! 
Kathleen?? A secret admirer has emerged. Have a There are ITiil'lY mnfusing things in life happy Valentine's Day. From a Neutral Space friend <r~d ~u ere one of them. Happy V. D. Love, Wally Wil'lted: Female Student to be mv All nighter
VAlentine. (Object-love or any facsimile Roses ere red, violets are blue, Miry T.
The Guiter Mil'\ Believe ~u·re magnificent Beer-With love,
thereof) we still love ~u. Call Dave 1057 3C
Rita, You're better than any eucalyptus leaf! a oompletely newexperience Are ~u really Jewish? Happy Vdlenti­Teehee! ne's 
Day. K. Beer Ridlard "Madlo" Bergmean: Tom, 
Be my Valentine or ~u'll never see Roses ere red, ~ur wife alive again Violets are blue On Valentine's Day I'll be thinking of ~u. Wooden Nickel Golden Lady Sometimes love is only sleeping Deer Belligerent: Happy Vlentine's day DEAR Residents of 3C (the building next All the v.orld's flo~ oouldn't equal door,): Don't forget that ~u still owe me ~u. Love, one ·~u know\Mlat'. I may need it some Selfish The Kid day! Please don't let another rronth go by before ~u show up at mv 3C(the 
C. B., Folks, building next door).
Nil'lcy, K.R.·
If ~u carry me off to San l..1Jos Obosbos Hope the city warms ~u on this day of
Happy Valentine's Day to my fiMlrite You always brighten my days (& beter
we can be happy forever. love. Dear Maggoooooos Sisters, 
roomie (right now). yet, my nights)
Love, ~urs in hearts, Happy Valentine's Day to mv substitute
L.uv,Judy -J
M. SOULS sister$ LDve,aero
Love to all my friends in Student Mom and Gram.
PaJaMaS, DEAR Daniele, 
Government il'ld Student Union. Happy Happy Valentine's Day May the happiness we shere never Happy Valentine's Day to a good Rome Happy Valentine's Day Max and Shirley, 
Valentine's Day. Love,
end. And may myclov.11ing forever make buddy. (You too Jack! ( 
wait see ~u. for ~u smile. JA
''Senior Partner'' Kevin Christopher Casey Nolan CiYl't to Thanks 
everything.

Love, LMS 
Love, A. 
Unda · HAPPY HEARTS, LEWIS LOVELIES! Things happen. But not like we did. Espcially first <r~d third floors. 
Jenni,

Happy V-Day. xoxoxoxoxoxoxoxoxoxoxoxo 
I can't stand Ken anyrrore. I am
capt. Kirke 
ALLAN and PETE (the Wrecking Crew) ooming home to see ~u. Happy Valentine's Day.
To Ketterer-to-be-Marys. 
Lee
Don't Wil'lt to make Mcrtin jealous, Nice to have ~u back. just Wil'lt to wish ~u a happy day. Oscar Heinroth 
Kim,The Southern Snowbird AAAAGGHH! Can't stand it any

MY DEAR CHRIS, 

longer. Gatta see ~ur face. I'm ooming
To the Aying L il'ld POssible Domer -We can't return; To my late night friend, home today. 
Hope this day's the greatest!! We can only look-No, I've never been invited to St. 
Steve
The Cheap Rebel Behind from \Mlere we came, Mary's. But I hear the private parties And go 'round and •round and 'round there are intelligent, enlightening ... You Dear R"ier Dan & Brother Jim: 
Maria: In he circle game. v.ouldn't mind, v.ould ~u? If so, not Happy V.D. minus the pink balloons 
1am taking this time to say Not Yet? enough to stop ~u. right? 
and perfume. Anxiously awaiting the
1thought of -,oo on this day Stretdl: Happy Valentine's Day. Let's Love A Crazy, Loony Airt Holiday Inn-Wink. wink. nod, nod!!!!!
Butdl start a fire in the oven Saturday. Love, Princess 
Bless ~u my son. Be mine, Valentine! BiSOJit. 
To the Augusta Girls (i.e.), 
Truly ~urs in peace and lore­G.R, Julie K, Patti 0, Julie D, Miry V, Denise The Sisters f'Ml File this boy under L for Love. Be mv Happy 6th Valentine's Day to mv one and S, Collen M, Barb H, Anita, etc. Valentine il'ld a 7&7 will be mnsumed in only Crundl. Happy Valentine's Day! Th<r~ks for the To the F.W. Club: 
~ur honor. LDve~u. b-day card. I've still got some cake for Since BIC is gone this weekend, maybe 
F.A. Buster I'll run for the GUN. Say \Mlat?? 
~u. Next time, the drinks are on me. 
Kathy & Mil'\, Wes, k.c.n.------------Robert B.­You've got to Boogie on do\Nn! Roses ere Red, To my f'Ml Sweethearts in 233 Farley, Someone loves ~u!! The Mofo\1.11 Madv.oiTiil'l Violets are blue, Happy Valentine's Day. (This ad is Me and bagels redeemable for : hugs, kisses and an s.b. Vic, To Chipper, Will always be true. on the beadl. ) Happy Valentine's Day. With m.Jdl love from the teadler. (And Lena sends her love, too) l..!>ve,
Kiddo 
Happy Valentine's Day! Love, Snail Robin, from River Bend ~·•b Lake-Side Bunny, A dinner for four Snookydoodle, TODAY IS THE DAY R Ragazza: is all that we ask My love is ~urs, today and forever, I'd normally day We've been disoovered!! We've got to Unda il'ld M;rgerette Valentine. stop meeting like this. Love ya anyway. 
llike~u. 

Is that sudl a task? Love, the 2-and-a-half yeerold But if I may Your not-so-secret admirer 
Butdl il'ld the Sundance Instead I'll day Warmest regards to Miss Shayla and HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAY Marguerite, Miss Ginny, our Valentine derlin's. A message from ~u instructor:

Weloome back J.P. and Happy V. D. A Ukeable Wizard Beauregard and Lee A fine perform<r~ce Tequila, Urnes and 
Winning Pants EMCC ooadls and MP, 
~u never tasted so good. Amigo-The Dakota Kid
Dear Kathleen, Happy Valentine's Day Even though I "hedlo" have a Happy 
Hope ~ur feeling better The Fancy Diver Valentine's Day anyways! KING,
Have a Happy Valentine's Day

With love­Happy Valentine's Day with "a little
Love Ron Usa, Your nagging Mom Happy ltallian Valentine's. The sun bitty teer" and m.Jdl love. Fl:>lcey-hasn't shov.11 since -,oor left. queen Willow Jim. "Time Out" -Let's go to the West Cove greg I can only say 1love -,oo. 1can never Deer Teri, 
and do away with that last lf2 of an indl.
Mom. say how mudl. For a THING ~u sure have nice legs.
We'll bring some cigcrrettes over to Mrs. 
Deer Lover,Happy Valentine's Day Morewine
G.

All Our love, How about a little card g;rne?
SLC(PGOC) . The Wizard of Oz
Be by recruit for Valentine's Day
The Three D's Happy Valentine's Day.
Sais -tu que je t'alme. 

Love Sem-california Girl 
Love, 
Genny,Buzz, Bubby Happy Valentine's Day. Beware: The
Happy Birthday Doug

E!Kcited about the future. Love '100 
C. Creighton, Blue Pig.
Thinking of -,oo-always-
To Cheeks, Fat Head, il'ld Ccrrot Top: 
rrore everyday. You're Irish il'ld -,oo're beautiful. Love,
Mc:Cil'\dless Gang
Your Valentine Although we were raided,
Your Seaet Admrer, Tom. 
Your smles never faded. 

J.O. 
Deer 721479346:

Happy Anniversary, Kiddo! So happy V-day to myfavorite 
Jerry M.,
Roses are red

Smile, it's good for the environment rrouseketeers, Cil'l't wait to see ~u!
VIOlets are blue

il'ld me too! From. the tag-along kid. 
Love il'ld ...
I have lots of favorite people 
Love, The Kid 
OUVIA
But mv rrost favorite is -,oo. 
LM.M. Midlael, 
You've gotta watch it \Mlen -,oo mx Happy third Valentine's Day. Love '100 JDF-potatoes and wine! LDtsa love on 
You always brighten mv days (& better 
Valentine's Day, spud,ITl.ldl! 
yet, mv nights)

Mail~ S.S.I . 
. J 
COokie Mugoo, 

To the spirits of Lewis (Badin(---Joil'\ne,
Thanks for the exciting, c:a-ing, il'ld Hey B. B.,
Sue, Donna, Jane, Janet, Mary, Sheila,
beautiful times! Lellow-Biue! Buona Festa, finalmente. mv heart
Jenny, MLP & Corrpany. Lad<. of time 

socrs like a hawk.

and abundence of space has kept the
Romeo cassani, Johnny Angel Sellick: Orner
visits dov.fl but the spirit is still present
Fonzie has cx:ml)etition -be ours! 
with this traveller. Happy Valentines
Love, 'Iii' Hustler and "Z". Honeybeer-
Day!! 

We have so mum in oomrron, evenLove,
Grad Student: though we rome from places far apart.
TheW ILO Bundl II minus four
You may look like one and I may look You are the best thing thats ever Sister Miry and Father Tom. We've been or
17, but I love ~u anyway. Happy happened to me. Remember "Disney granted a dispensation for tonite. I'll Valentine's Day! Girls" and that nothing has too mudl
Tl, RK, BF, & gang: Hope -,oo find many The last of the Ghetto Dwellers meet ~u at the s~agogue of Reverend 
B. Valentines at the end of -,oor RAINBOW, Wally.
signif;cance. And rrost of all, remember GEESH-JH & MO the Rabbi 
that I love ~u. Happy Valentine's Day.
AI ~u·re a pal. Happy Valentine's Day
V.B.McQ. · Chas No matter \Mlat happens to Tuesday's There is a hot tuna in Keenan from another al. Cheedl and Chong, 
mild, roffee il'ld gold main have made it Who comes from Kentucky, a tree ITiil'l Love to love ~u . all v.orth it. 
• 
He swims through the sea Ster Spangled Girl, Tv.o Sex Kittens of 2-Nort S.P What? $50! 1don't even know ~u. But Happy Valentine's Day. Wouldn't it be 1 need -,oor West Virginia ticket. call And should know that~ •II are his fil'\5! will ~u be mv valentine? nice if... ? ETA at LAX? Belgian waffles? To the Yellow Persuasion, 
''Sunshine'' I can't wait. Kodlam Cie forever and ever. Decrest Uglies, MrAdam; Bunny 
Tom 272-8060. 

Thanks tor the greatest nine rronths Will ~u be a good girl on Valentine's ever! From the grotto to the ghetto, is au Occupant-Bldg 1621 Apt.6, Big C & -squad, Bushkl Baby, Day? been a trip, Love ya lots · let's hecr it for the Bunny of the Yecr Happy Valentine's Day. Have a good 1Wil'lt to dlew ~u. 
Miss Mousie, 

Toudlingly, H.V.D. time & try and stay sober --for once! Bill Your last dU~ndum Toad k.c.n. Babushka 
My shoulder il'ld neck will be waiting. . Cute kisses, 


,. 


, ----,.. 
Tony & A!ggy,J Making It last for one year rres1s we'll Isee .,ou thIs surrmer. 
Happy Annlller.ioY)', Mlrty a-Id Mllrybeth 

Andrea, You plll1M!d rre. But I still like .,ou. AAAAHHI 
Burrmed on S.Day, 
Happy belated 8-day. I'm sony the presents late but I was tied up at the Gym. Rease be my Valentine. 
"Ma-y Bien" 

A good name is rather to be chosen than great rimes. and loving fiMlr rather than silver and gold. 
B.M. W.A.S. O.N.C.E B.C.I.N.P.H. 
To my Valentine, Rerrember this weekend requests get preterence. Be with ~u then. LDve, B.P. 


Kevin, Naht reippah em sekam gnihton uoy fo selromem Yadretsey erew esohy yahy gnin onk dna Uoy evan lilts II'I v.orro mot dna Happy valentine's day (one day early) 
LDve, Barb 

FtrlNRIV Aanc.ee, This Is going to be a big weekend, LDve, Pat 
o my date, 
The Bitcn Is Back. glad ~u·re here! I LDve, 

c.c.c. 
1------------­
1 
· 
Anniversary and Valentine's 
Jerry 

~--------------------­
SEAN 
.,our observer kids 

ear, dear Martha: 
You really do grace our everyday 
ves with all the little things you do. 
ou truly care, whidl is hard to find 
ese days. Thank you, and be our alentines. Chris and Tom 
Za-Grovpie, ~u'retheoven that heats up my lbli. appy Za-lan-tine's Day. LDve, H. the Bo><rT1<11 
~a. 
face It, ~·re stuck with rre. Happy alentlne's Day. LDve, Worthless 



guessv.tlo 

For Marion-The Irish Lass with a lot of dass. Happy Valentine's Day!! PR 
Happy Valentins Day to all my Aances: 
hate to keep ~u all hanging, bu the elimination rounds are almost over. Anal ists will be announced In 1\'10 years. I love ~u all as I could never love an~e else. 
Mo. 
SCHEMA: Shayla Sue, Focl'lella, Karen Lee, and Taddy LDu -Happy Valentine's Day in Jewish. 
~X.~. Russ:  
LDve  
The 0' Briens  

My Dar! inks, If ~u are bad, a freak will SIMXlP (or is II scoop) do1M1 on ~u. If ~u are good, ~ will all get flowers. (thanks to Hans) Happy Valentine's Day 
Chas. 

Fmple so seldom say I love ~ ... and then It's either too late ... or love goes... so vo.tten I tell ~u I love ~u ...it doesn't mean 1know ~u'll never go, only that 1 wish ~u didn't have to. 
Honey Bear 
My dear, sweet Bobo: 

How I v.ould love to run my fingers thru ~ur soft, cuny blond hair, and stroke ~ur tall, ~uthful body. How I love to get stories from ~u. I yearn for 
~u  but  I am  shy and  my  love  is  
unrequited.  
a secret v.orsh ipper  

To Aynn & Company: 
How do we tolerate thee Let us count the ways : Antics in the dining hall Bruises from a racquetball lnnertubing in the slush But cut the crap and all this mush... We still love ~u anyway! (Stumpy this rreans ~u. too. Happy V.D. 

Hugs and Kisses, 
M. L, T.J., UKr, Dot 
For a Valentine's Wasted Weekend­Late night entertainment --featuring: Top of the Wor1d (theme song of the '0. D.), My analyst told rre, and our lod fiMlrlte -The Way We Were! Happy V-Day. 
The Singer 
P.S. Aerosol cans don't make good microphones! 
She shutters to think vo.ttat could have 
been, 
But it Is now all under the rug, 
She sits eacn night in deep remorse. 
Now that the liner has lost her tug. 

-Anom. 
Happy St. Valentine's Day, Bruno, Yours in humanism Thomas /\lore 
To Bro1M1-Eyes at 135 BP, 

R'Om NO to Algauer's, from Neiman­Marcus to Gstad? I'll believe it if ~u will. Yours always, The LDser 
P. S.Aure ~u sure they're green? 
Judy A., 

1 kept my promise. Here's ~ur Valentine. Happy V-Day and here's to Virgil. 
Neutral Space 
To Jonathon­

' miss ~ur great sound effects and my game of mess stinks. Rease corre horre & remedy both. 
Your "Intended" 
To Lynda & LDuise, You may be taken but we don't care. 

To  have ~u as Valentines we'll  go  
anyvo.ttere.  
SGandSU  

Rick walked around in his BVD's, Tom & Ben put on quite a show, Trix got Suzanne to stay with him. but in the end, she still said "no". 

-Anom. 
Benji's Mom.  please corre horre.  We  
miss ~u.  
Benjl and Benjl's Dad  

All my love to-Laura Beth, Claire, Dede and Ann Marie. Happy V-Day. 
Dear Blue-eyes, As long as we play It "mixed-doubles" any "sport" is okay! Your 2 SMC lovers 
Tomas, Te quiero! MJH 
LOST: 1 valentine by simple twist of fate In ~rre. Italy. nswers to Sweet William. If ~usee him, say "Hello." 
. Tangled up in blue 
Stacy,  
Happy Valentine's Day!!  
LDve,  
. Dan  

Jean, Jean roses are red but carnations 
are  rated  higher.  Happy  Valentine's  
Day!!  
Alan  

Ozzie, 

Happiest of Valentine's Days. I love ~ur face (and all else that goes with It)!! Much love, Harriet 
Said the pretty pianist named Sahron, 

"No way! Hot snails are ready for eatin'. We'll dance the night i!NiaV As candlelight plays 
lkltll that damn stroke of twelve we're hearln'. 
I say, pretty pianist named Sharon, 
This bloke's got a question for askln'. I'd tee! mighty fine If ~u'd be my Valentine 

And talk sorre politics tomorrow evenin'! Over the hill at 20. 

Having tried in vain all these years, My inability I have Cursed, I really want to thank ~u Terri, For giving rre -my first. 

LDve, Bobby 
I went before the court once more, Rlr trying to have some fun, And once again they found rre guilty, In Q. B. 31. 

-Hoagie 
JOAN, . You're sud! a treasure, 
Wor1<ing with ~u is a real pleasure. 

Anon. 
After enjoying ~u from head to toot, I know ~u are no fake, I sa110red those nights in 011 Sorin, I miss yQu so -toe blake. 

Gillesp 
Big Deb, 

My one and only Valentine. LDveya, Big dave 

George: Letty and Right both want to be ~ur 
valentines.  We all  love  ~u and ~r  
friend, too.  Muncn, munc n.  
Doris  

B'est,  
Happy Anniversay!!  
LDve.  
Hb  

Ulfle Merry Sunshine, You brighten up my days, too. 

JJ 
Dear Margie,  
Happy Valentine's Day.  
LDve,  
''~tc:ee''  

There once was a pianist named Sharon, 
Whose stereo was always a blarin'. Her many gir1friends Said lfum do1M1 the din l 

Before the party for 1\'10 gets too darin • ! 
Padre, Happy Valentine's Day. With love, kisses and licks. 

o.s. 
11 resembled Ma-y & her little IIIITb. Though Chutie wasn't fleeced, But the way he folio~ Uz around, I'd have sv.om she had him leashed. 
-Anom.
J 

The lineup was the same as ever, At the plate stood jumping Joe, 
But Judy struck him out once more, And maintained the status quo . 
but then a rumble from the crtl\W, As a new man entered the game, A football star of days gone by, Would make his bid for fame. 

The Sorin boys watcned in shock. A tougher pitcner he'd never face, But the cro\M:I was even more surprised, When Russ made it to first base. 
Happy Valentine's Day Greg, Sorry ~u didn't like the haircut; Just keep those nlck.ela ha-ldy. The Trolls(poof) Bena, .You're a special kind of person. TheSuncWlce 
A.T&T. Nothing is better for thee than rre. Be my Valentine. The Bashful Bruin 
M.E Thanks for asking, the nod's on rre. I love~. 
T.M. Do ~ wanna dance? It's leap year. LDve~ 
To the Queen's Asher-men: Merry rruggings on Valentine's Day. l1N, The Regina Women 
SAR-Good things DO corre in small packages. HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAY. 

MB 
Huntzy, Saw-eee but ~u still mow more. LDve, Huntz 
I'm telling ~u straight jelly bean, And my meaning should be dear, You can tell that I love ~u 
Because the clog is always here. HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAY. 
Valentine's Day love, I have for the obScene poet. But for 

J. K. on this day all I have is salt in my heart. 
73$30$436­Happy Valentine's Day. "831". 741957339 

F\mkin,  
Anally,  ~ur OIMl  personal.  Be  my  
valentine.  
love?  
Brian  

Happy B. D. TO D. B. ON V. D. 
M.Q. Happy Valentine's Day. The 0vserver Staff 
Gert-
Miss ~­ Come by soon.  LDve, Oscar  
Q.T.S.  

Happy Valentine's Dllyll Voulez \OUS coucnez ... 

Dorothea, I've always loved ~u and always will. HappyVD. 
GayT. 
To A.W.T.S. Happy VD. With love and kisses, deep from my on-yun. N.B.R 
To the Jet: 
When do we tell?? Your Cute Thing 
O'calculfa-Your very OIMl Observer Valentine. How appropriate. The Boss 
Steph, 
I hope we can get something straight between us; rerrember, one in the bush Is v.orth 1\'10 in the hand. Be my Valentine? 
Steph 
''MCT'' 
Happy Valentine's Day, T.J. "It's been real" and here's wishing~ health and happiness for all days to corre. 
T. K. -The short kid across the street 
Kevin, Jeff and Jeff, Happy Valentine's Day! I LDve and Kisses, 202Walsh 
JOHN & COL. Happy Aniversary. Just remember ~u 
owe II all to rre. LDve, Pattie 
Tigger, 
I don't have to tell ~u vo.ttat I'm thinking. You IG1ow. happy Valentine's Day! 
Your Baby Roo 
Thorn. 
Of course skiers make better lover! Thank ~u. Happy Valentine's Day. 
LDve, 
Ma-y 
Gator: 
Your the ugliest!! Happy V. D. 
Thomo. Vedo a ~rna. Te amo. 
Dear Beautiful Ladies, 

You are the most beautiful I have ever seen. I only have eyes for~-Happy Valentine's Day! the flowers are coming. LDve, Hans 
PAJ, Happy Valentine's Day. When will .,ou keep ~ur promise? MlJry 
-,. .-
Lerron Babies: What v.ould I be without y'all? Just a poor MACKERB... with no place to go. 
Happy V-DIIy  a-Id  may  happy  hours  
always exist.  
LDve,  

Tunam 
SBP76 Happy Valentine's Day. M Bl.JTW, Salt Lak.e City 
The Stripper Th~r~ks for everything-~·re cool. The Foreigner 
Ma-y E, 
I've always loved ~-Wish ~ were with rre. TEX 

Nora,  
409's always open to ~u.  
Corne soon.  
LDve,  
War1  

lbl Dileo, You was right. The grass is so nicea on ~ur side of the fence. Lets mellow yellow. 
Mark. It's been beautiful. will ~u oorre over and sign my guestbook. LDve always, Bomb-shell 
To .Joanie Caucus,  
It was just a joke.  
LDve,  
Andy  

To .Joanle Caucus, No It wasn't. 
I.Jlon 
Happy Valentine's Day to my best girts: Mom. Heanrnarle, Jolrl, and Kathy. The Chief 
Great Wizard, You've captured my country bu"1)kln heart. Dumb Eltn'ly. 
IWJ, oa noose boss loves ya. What v.ould I do without~? 
To my "Bell of St. Mary's" (get It? ­"Ring my ...", "bell") Oh well, Happy Valentine's Day. 
B. 
DearM.D.R, Happy Valentine's Day to ~u and Mistletoe. LDw, K.G.M. 
Antonio's Rua Plrlor, Happy Valentine's Day. LDve, Beth & Helen 
J.C. You make every day Valentine's Day 

for rre.  Thanks for always being .,ou. LDve, Ml!ryanne  
T.M.B.  

You're a sweetheart and I hope ~·re always my sweetheart. H.&M.H.P. Cheryl & Monica, H.V.D., love, Schrregan 
IX>B, HVD!. .. UOO<X; G, B & M 
HVD TO K.F.C., A.M., MK, DB, etal INHERE'S Blair?? -.._ ~.., -' 

c~~ 
fl · ,v 
Bufu, 
You're better than Big White anytime. 
LDIIe, Me. 
Brl~r~ McCurdy, 
Happy St. Valentine's Day. 
For \'OUI" Valentine I'll buy .,ou lolotllte wine No need to give back As there's lllfle I lack But should .,ou Inquire What I do desire I'd say with a grin That I only Vlellt gin 


) 


Wme9StvirQii1i8 to test Irish cagers 

by Fred Herbst 
man Bernard Rencher has scored in 
' ( Notre Dame concludes a four­double figures in each of Notre game homestand tomorrow as they Dame'~ last three games. Dave entertain the Mountaineers of Batton, Bruce Flowers, Ray Martin West Virginia University in the and Bill Paterno have also shown ACC. signs of coming to life offensively West Virginia enters the contest to help Dantley and Don "Duck" coming off an impressive 85-72 win Williams. over Pittsburg on Wednesday night Dantley, who tied his season that upped their record to 11-9. scoring low of 18 points against While their record isn't very im­Villanova, is still leading the Irish pressive, their schedule is. The in scoring and rebounding (29.1 Mountaineers have played against p.p.g. and 9.4 r.p.g.). He is such top teams as Wake Forest, shooting 61.5 percent from the 
New Mexico, California, Virginia floor and 74 percent from the free 
Tech, Rutgers, Purdue, Virginia throw line. Williams follows and Syracuse. They beat New Dantley in scoring, hitting for Mexico, Virginia and Syracuse and about ten points per game. 
only lost by ten points to unde­West Virginia and the Irish share feated Rutgers. four common opponents. The Irish 
The Mountaineers, bidding for defeated St. Francis (Pa.) 103-73, their second consecutive berth in while the Mountaineers scored a the ECAC Souther Division Play­67-59 win over the Red Flash. offs which could qualify them for Notre Dame beat Pitt 77-66, while 
the NCAA Tournament, is led by West Virginia split their two games forward Stan Boskovich and guard with the Panthers. The Mount­Tony Robertson. Boskovich, a 6-6 aineers edged Davidson by four, senior, leads the team in scoring while the Irish routed the Wildcats. with an average of 18.3 points per Notre Dame beat Villanova last 
game. He is followed by Robert­Wednesday, while West Virginia son, a 6-5 junior, who is scoring at a Adrian Dantley leac.s the Irish in rebounding. Notre Dame has out-rebounded all of their lost the Wildcats by 17. clip of 16.2 points per game. BoskOMbnQOfd this tilusdoar{Piloto lill»t<tbnisa&lsitN. game. be playing another team like Notre After tomorrw's contest, Coach 
Center Warren Baker (6-7) leads second leading rebounder gather-Russell Chapman (6-7, 6.3 ppg), Dame. It is just another team in Phelps' Irish go on the road for West Virginia in rebounding pul­ing in 5.7boards a contest. He also Bob Huggins (6-3, 5.8 p.p.g.), Sid the top 20!" Gardner said. "But games with Butler. Fordham, South ling down 7.5 a game. He also averages 5.9 points per tilt. Guard Bostick (6-6, 4.3 p.p.g.) and Dana against Notre Dame we will have to Carolina and Dayton. They return contributes 9. 9 points a game to the Earnest Hall (6-0) rounds out the Perno (6-2, 2.6 p.p.g.) are Coach mentally and physically peak if we home to face AI McGuire's Mar­Mountaineer attack. Maurice Rob­starting line-up and serves as the Joedy Gardner's top reserves. are going to have a prayer of quette Warriors on Feb. 28 and inson (6-7) starts at forward with Mountaineer's playmaker, handing "It's really no big thing for us to winning. They have a tremendous close out their regular season 
home court advantage and a fellow against undefeated Western Mich­named Dantley." igan on Mar. 1. Adrian Dantley will of course Tomorrw's tilt with the Mount­
ND icers to host number one 
once again lead Coach Digger aineers will be televised on the Phelps' cagers into tomorrow's Spoelstra Sports Network, WNDU­game but the present homestand TV channel 16 locally, and will be has seen improved play on the part broadcast on WNDU, WSND and

Michigan Tech in crucial series 
of many of the Irish and more WSBT radio. Tip-off is scheduled 
by Tom Kruczek point out however that beginning 39 helpers while Lyle, a left winger evenly distributed scoring. Fresh-for 1 p.m. with Bowling Green, the skaters has 31 goals and 29 assists. Notre Dame's hockey team faces face "a hell of a challenge." Neither of them can compare to its toughest challenge of the season In just over two weeks, Notre Steve Letzgus ,however, in one 
U.S. speed skater captures 
this weekend, when the Michigan Dame will have faced the top three particular category. Letzgus is the Tech Huskies come to the ACC for teams in the country. Bowling main bad-boy on the team, as in 28 Friday and Saturday games. The Green, is ranked third, while next games, he has picked up 70 

gold medal at lnnsbruck
Huskies are number one in the weeks foe Michigan State is ranked minutes in penalties. WCHA and number one in the second, and Tech is on top. All good teams have top goalten­lnnsbruck(AP)-Speed skater Peter 21-year-old Mueller. He had hoped country, posting a 18-6 mark in Tech also is primed for the ding material and Tech is no Mueller shaking off an earlier poor to win the 500-meter race Tuesday
conference and a 22-7 record 
weekend series coming off a dram­exception. In goal will be Bruce showing, gave the United States its but finished fifth. Not even his overall. atic sweep against the Wolverines Horsch. The sophomore netminder second gold medal of the 12th fiancee, Leah Poulos of North­
Notre Dame, as has been the of Michigan. The Huskies, playing who last year had a 9.7 goals Winter Olympic Games Thursday brook, Ill., who won a silver medal 
usual fare this year, is coming off a before a record crowd of 9,131 for against average, this year has a 3.9 in speed skating last week, would
and the young U.S. hockey teamweekend split. The latest spliter the two-game series, scored three goals against average in 22 total closed in on a bronze medal as the console him. came against Denver, with the Irish goals in the final 1:32 Friday, then games and one shutout. Americans continued their strong "Don't worry, just be yourself,"losing Friday night 3-2 but coming overcame Michigan's Dave Debol's This year's Tech team, while showing. Coach Peter Schotting told him. 
back to take the second game 4-2. 59-second hat trick in the second being probably the only team in the Mueller, a 21-year-old whiz from Schotting put him in the first of 
Coach Charles (Lefty) Smith was period on Saturday with four league with an assured home Meqoun, Wis., who had finished three groups of skaters. as is the very pleased with his team's perfor­unanswered goals of their own to play-off spot could be better if this fifth in the 500 meters on Tuesday, coach's privilege. The track was mance seeing the Denver games win both games by 6-4 tallies. hadn't been an Olympic year. The flashed to victory in the 1,000 fast for that group but then the sun and the Bowling Green game of In examining the particulars of man in the goal for the U.S. team is meters in course record time. He came out, the ice got softer, and in l'ucsday that the Irish won S-4 in the series, Smith feels that the Irish none other than Jim Worden, the became the first man to win a resurfacing the rink. the organizers overtime, as very important tune­have to concentrate on forecheck­starting goal-tender for last year's Winter Olympics gold medal for left too much water on it. 
ups for Tech. ''I'm very pleased ing. and backchecking, which are Husky squad. They were counting the United States since Terry No one could catch him. "We with the way that everyone played two of the main strengths of the heavily on his return year, McDermott won the 300. meters in decided it was
this best that I go out at Denver and we are coming off a Huskies. The other strengths are however when he did decide to take 1964. early and give it all I had,'' Mueller 
good week of practice and a good named Juke, Ostlund and Lyle. a sabbatical for a year, Horsch The U.S. hockey team whipped said. "I was lucky." 
game at Bowling Green. I think Mike Zuke is the leading scorer stepped in and has done admirably Poland 7-2 and can clinch the The American hockey team built that this will give us the needed for MTU with 30 goals and 37 guiding his team to 16 wins and just bronze medal by beating West a 4-1 lead early in the second impetus for Michigan Tech." assists. Zuke as a center has one of 6 losses while he is in the cage. Germany Saturday. period and coasted to victory over 
Smith discounted the fact that the best shots in the WCHA and Stever Jensen, one of their top-goal Meanwhile, the Russians contin­the Poles. Steve Jensen of Middle­the Irish may be tired going into also has to be looked at as a getters from last year joins Worden ued to pile up medals, winning the ton, Wis., and Bob Dobek of the weekend, even after a midweek penalty-getter, having12 penalties in Innsbruck for the games. women's 20-kilometer 12.4 miles Taylor, Minn., each scored two 
game. "No, I don't think will have 
for 26 minutes. The Irish will go into this series cross-country ski race in the day's goals and goalie Jim Worden of to be concerned with fatigue factor 
Stu Ostland and George Lyle with everyone healthy. The lines only other final event. And the Altadena, Calif., made 42 saves. because we work harder in prac­comprise the other portion of the also will remain the same with the Czech hockey team was deprived of 
Jensen scored first at 4:48 of the tice than we do during games, so I scoring threesome, Ostlund is possible exception of Ray Johnson its victory over Poland because its opening period on a short shot from don't think we'll be tired." He did also a center and has 22 goals and and Tim Byers alternating the right captain had taken forbidden drugs. 
the left side. Poland connected justwing spot on the third line. John With just three days of competi­12 seconds later, but defensemanPeterson and Len Moher will split tion remaining in this 12-day Gary Ross of Roseau, Minn., linedthe goal-tending chores, with­extravaganza, the Soviets have a 60-foot shot into the net from theSmith unsure who is going to start won 11 golds and 24 total medals­blue line at 9:14, putting the
which night. an unbeatable margin. East Ger­Americans ahead to stay.
What it comes down to then is many is a distant second with six U.S. won two
The now hassimply a case of the Irish having golds and 14 total. 

straight games after losing tothe challenge presented to them, Mueller's victory boosted the Russia and Czechoslovakia. "Weand now we watch. The Irish United States into third place with came back against the Finns andposition wisein the standings are in two golds, three silvers and four that got us into position for afifth place all by themselves with 24 bronze for a total of nine medals. 
medal." said Warden. "Now thatpoints. Michigan is just 2 points Dorothy Hamill of Riverside, we beat the Poles rather handily, Iahead in fourth and Minnesota is 5 Conn., goes for another gold Friday think we're going pretty strong."
points ahead in third. Michigan in the freestyle finale of women's a
State is 15-9 in second place and figure skating and is a prohibitive Miss Hamill, who scored just 6 points away from the Irish, so favorite barring an attack of ner­sensational victory in the women's the league is still knotted up with ves. The U.S. also stands a chance short program Wednesday and the top four spots and a home-birth of earning medals when Mueller became the favorite for the gold 
for the play-offs still up for grabs. races again In the 1 ,500-meter medal, fell in practice Thursday but her coach, Carlo Fassi, brushed off 
Game time for both nights is 7:30 event and Cindy Nelson goes in the 
with a Friday night pep rally the slip: "It means nothing. John
women's giant slalom, both Friday, 
planned for 6:30 outside of gate 3. when Bill Koch in Curry fell in practice the day before 
competes the There will be speakers, the band SO-kilometer cross country ski race he got his gold." 
and theNotreDame cheerleaders in Curry, also one of Fassi's pupils, 
Saturday and in hockey.

attendance. There are plenty of !won the men's gold medal for his
Mueller was timed in 1:19.32 in
tickets left for both nights, student native Britain Wednesday night
the 1,000 to 1:20.45 for silver 
tickets are $1.50 with ID in a with what Fassi called "one of the 
medalist Jorn Didriksen of Norway. 1
special section for students behind best four or five all-time skating
The Notre Dame hockey team hopes to llteain their drive for home ice 
the band. It was not the favorite race of the \ perf?rmances.'' 
advanta~ in the WCHA playoffs with a sweep over Michiaan lech this 

weekend. (Photo lily Tom Paulius) 






