

LaFortune expansion recommended by SLC 
by stating that the proposed im­Staff Reporter 
by Barbara Breitenstein 

provements were designed to work around the schedules of the Nazz The improvement of social space and Darby's Place. facilities on campus and question­
The need for social space is also nairesinvestigating three areas of part of the questionnaire approved student life were among proposals by the SLC. Other areas which the approved by the Student Life 
survey will cover will be the desirability of coed housing and the Council (SLC) yesterday. 
drinking habits of Notre Dame places "where students may go to 
In a report stressing the need for 

students. relax after studying as well as to Questionnaire to show support
socialize," the social space com­mittee of the SLC proposed thirteen improvements in existing facilities. The questionnaire, which will be 
The Council voted to support distributed at random to 1200 twelve of these recommendations. students within about a week, will 
The expansion of Lafortune be used for the development of Student Center was the main proposals for submission to the proposal approved. This expansion Board of Trustees. "Right now we would consist mainly in the con-just need to be able to show student struction of a restaurant "based on support of the SLC proposals," Ed the concept of good food and Van Tassell, North Quad repre­relaxing atmosphere" and the de-sentative, stated, "and that is one velopment of the area adjacent to purpose of the questionnaire." LaFortune as a "park-like set-A proposal to convert the sec-ting." ond-floor lobby of the library into a 
Other proposals of the report lounge with carpeting and sound­included the installation of a sound proofing was the one recommenda­stystem in the main lobby of tion •·ejected by the Council. The LaFortune, 24-hour availability of question was deferred to a commit­the Rathskellar, which include tee of the SLC already working on prepared foods supplied by the the problem. University Food Servtce, use of the To provide continuity on the dining halls during .n~~-me~l SLC, the Council also passed a hours and weekly acttvtttes m provision which will provide for LaFortune ballroom. two-year terms for two student 
"Our one goal," John Reid, representatives. According to this social space committee chairman, plan, to be implemented by the stated, "was to have activities spring elections next year, the centrally located and to work with two-year ter~ will be rotat~~ to existing organizations and to be apply to vartous s~udent postttons supportive to them.'' He continued (contmued on page 2) 
Committee man accused of Mardi Gras booth damage 
by Ken Bradford not informed him that the hand was Copy Editor to be saved and that it was and standard procedure for Mardi Gras Matt Kane committee members to dispose of 
Staff Reporter articles unclaimed by the halls. Spellman added that the entire 
Three hall Mardi Gras commit­situation has been worked out and tees have accused a Mardi Gras that reparations have been made to committee architect with exceeding Morrissey. He said he couldn't his powers and destroying booths understand why Morrissey was operated by the halls. making such a big deal over a $26 
Booth workers for Alumni, plaster-of-paris hand. Walsh and Morrissey halls have Morrissey had violated several reported that Robert Walker dam­Mardi Gras regulations throughout aged at least two booths without the 11-day event but the committee proper authorization. They claim­was nice enough to rescind their ed that Walker broke down the fines, Spellman noted. facade of the Morrissey booth, Morrissey booth chairman Mike ruined a giant plaster-of-paris Doyle reported that the destruction hand, threw a crap table on top of of his booth took place while he was the Junior Class booth and ruined counting his booth's receipts Sun­some light fixtures. day afternoon. He said Foran came 
Peggy Foran, Mardi Gras com­to his booth and told him that mittee member, called the situation someone was tearing his booth a "misunderstanding." "I refuse apart. to condone what happened there, "I ran out to see the damage and but you have to be there at the end left Peggy with our money," Doyle to understand what goes on when stated, • • and asked Spellman who the Mardi Gras closes," Foran was responsible. Spellman said he noted. "This is the first year in my didn't know." three years on the committee that Doyle said he learned from Mardi Gras people have been Alumni worker Jim Ryan that criticized for tearing down Walker had done most of the booths." damage. "I confronted Walker but 
Harry Spellman, he wouldn't admit his responsibil­chairman, said (continued on page 10) 
untversify of noire dome sl. mary's college Vol. X, No. 83 Wednesday, February 11, 1976 
Halls to be patrolled 
Parties banned in LeMans 
by Marti Hogan "We allow se~tton parties if dent. "The party up here was Assistant St. Mary's Editor everyone in the section is willing," really nice. The girls thought it Wernig said. However, Wernig was really nice to entertain here LeMans Hall Directors Nina prefers students to use St. Mary's instead of al111-ays having to go over 
Huberand Cathy Matthews, banned Clubhouse to avoid infringing on to Notre Dame." future parties in the hall and plan others. Although 'no real parietal viola­to patrol the halls in search of such Matthews refused to comment tions occurred" according to parties during parietal hours as a saying, "I'm not going to tell you Huber, Sunday parietals were sus­result of a parietal mix-up Saturday anything. Isn't that too bad?" pended for LeMans residents. night. "We wanted to give everyone a 
The Saturday night inctdent was 
rest and make them think about

According to several LeMans a "clerical not social problem" what happened," Huber said. 
R.A.'s, the directors told them they 
explained Paula Vasquez, LeMans' 
Parietals will be reinstated thismust enforce this new rule banning 

R.A., in referring to the confusion 
weekend at LeMans. However,.,earties or they will be inunediately 

which resulted when approximately 
Huber did not want to \speculate onreplaced. 150 Notre Dame students were the remainder of the year. 

Huber explained that parietals asked to leave the party. Vasquez .J'oad McDermot, St. Mary's weren't designed for "mass group­said, "It wouldn't have happened if Student Body President and stud­everyone didn't have to come down
ings," such as occurred Saturday, ent representative to the Board of 
at once.''
but for a "one to one" system. Regents, doubted that parietals However, there is no regulation "They're making it a social will be an issue at the upcoming stating how many male visitors a problem now by banning parties," Board of Regents meeting on woman may have during parietal said Janet Thiroway, LeMans resi-February 20. 
hours. 
regulating the number of guys that may visit one room because of the variety Stevie president of Student Affairs said. However, original purpose of parietals is for "one girl to bring up one guy" for a more provided for in the hall lounges. 
alcohol," Wernig said in keeping with Affairs parietal letter which was printed in the October 13, 1975, Observer. The letter stated drinking parties are illegal, but it did not mention non­drinking parties. 

by PhD Cackley  Ryan  said  it  was  part  of  a  signments for nert fall.  "We're  
Senior Staff Reporter  program initiated last year to turn  letting him see what are the kinds  
over the chairmanships more regu­ of  duties  he'll  have,"  Powell  
Dr. Robert Williamson will as­sume the chairmanship of the Accounting Department of the College of Business Administration Sept. 1, replacing Dr. Ray Powell who has served as chairman for the past 16 years.  larly. In the past, department chairmen in the college have held their positions for long periods, some over 10 years. In the other colleges of the University, Ryan explained, chair­men hold their posts for a threeyear term, which is renewable once.  stated. Williamson is already attending executive committee meetings of the College of Business Adminis­tration, and is chairman of the Curriculum Revision Committee, the chairman added. The choice of Williamson as  
Williamson· s appointment marks the fourth change in chairmanships in the past several years, according to Bro. Leo Ryan, C.S.V., dean of the College of Business Adminis­tration.  Two chairmen were appointed last summer and another had been appointed a year before. With Williamson's term beginning in September there will be staggered terms of office for the chairman,  chairman was almost unanimous on the part of the faculty, Powell said, commenting that he felt William­son was a very good choice. "Mixed feelings"  
Ryan noted. Ryan praised Powell's work as chairman, saying, "He has been a leader in developing an exception­ally qualified research and teaching faculty.'' Powell has done an excellent job in student placement in the accounting profession, Ryan added. "Chairmanships are regarded as more of a burden than an honor," Ryan commented. He explained that the position is usually given to tenured professors, in order to Q:ive the'" administrative experience  Approaching the job with ''mixed feelings,'' Williamson, who is a· specialist in financial and managerial accounting, said, "There is a lot of work involved but it is an important opportu­nity." Williamson said he had nothing specific he wanted to change in the department, but would try to deal with problems as they came up. Asked to comment on the prob­lem of overcrowding in the Ac­counting department and the Col­lege of Business Administration,  
Wlillamson as "understudy" During the spring, Williamson · will work with Powell as a sort of "understudy," Ryan said. This ''participation of the chairman-elect1 in the planning process" will involve him in the decisions he will have to implement and administer next year, Ryan explained.  Williamson stated, "It's a problem we'll have to work with. There are no magical solutions unless things change drastically soon, and I ddh't see that happening." He said it was a matter of making gradual changes, that in the short run the department would use the certain number of faculty available to the best advantage, and that in  
Powell said Williamson has al·  the long run more resources should  


Morrissey's Mardi Gras booth was one of three reparations to Morrissey for the damage. ready taken over some of next be obtained from the University. booths destroyed by a Mardi Gras committee by Kevin McGuire) year's duties, by helping with "We have to keep trying to architect. The committee man l~ter made course changes and faculty as-(continued on page 8) 

·, Fear of execution 

i 
i ! 
!•• I 
•! 
~ 
l f 
---News Briefs--......,.. 
t=:::========Intemational 
Americans not affected 
MOSCOW--Residents of the American community in Moscow were told yesterday they are not being exposed to radiation hazards, ostensibly from Soviet surveillance equipment, on the ground floor of the 10-story U.S. Embassy. 
Embassy officials would not say if any danger existed on the remaining nine floors~ They also declined comment on reports that Russian listening devices are beaming potentially dangerous rays into the embassy building. 
=============Nationa1 
Evangelist has relations 
NEW YORK--Four of his male students and one coed have claimed 
that conservative evangelist Billy James Hargis had sexual relations 
with them, Time magazine reported this week. 
The Rev. Mr. Hargis, SO, who has a wife, three daughters and a son, has crusaded against illicit heterosexual and homosexual relations. 
1lme said Hargis blamed his behavior on "genes and chromosomes.'' 
'Beer and chips' 
ST. LOUIS--The son of a St. Louis potato chip executive was shot to death early yesterday at the south St. Louis County mansion of August A. Busch Jr., president of Anheuser-Busch, Inc. 
David Leeker, 123, son of A. Elmer Leeker Jr., president of So Good Potato Chip Co., was killed when a .357 magnum revolver held by Peter Busch, 20, accidentally discharged, a Busch family sookesman said. 
Top religion award presented 
1\ffiW YORK The world's top award for progress in religion goes his year to Joseph Cardinal Suenens, Roman Catholic primate of 'oJgium and a leader in causes of church reform and Christian 
uHity. 

He was chosen for the $80,000 Templeton Foundation Prize, set 1p four years ago to honor those distinctively advancing the knowledge and love of God, comparable to the N<?bel prizes for 
l-Jievements in science and literature. 
-On Campus Today-.. 
12 pm-­
3:30pm-­
4:15 pm-­
6:30pm-­
6:30pm-­6:30pm-­
6:30 pm-­
6:45 pm-­
7, q:15 & 1 0 pm-­
7:30 pm-­
8 pm-­8 pm-­
8:15 pm-­

workshop, hour-long workshop for graduate students, by richard willemin, n.d., advance students lounge, Iafortune. 
seminar, "gaming, simulation and decision-making" by prof. paul e. torgersen, dean of engineering, virginia polytechnical institute and state univ., room 303, engineering building. 
lecture, "technical and social 'change in egyptian agriculture: 1890-1914" by alan richards, univ. of wisconsin, room 105, law building. 
wrestling, western michigan univ. at n.d., auxiliary gym, ace. 
meeting, sailing club, room 204, engineering building. 
meeting, mock convention platform committee 127 
nieuwland.  '  
meeting,  mock  convention  black  ·caucus  black  
cultural arts center.  '  

rosary, feast of our lady of lourdes, grotto. 
film, "the last pictureshow,'engineering aud., $1. 
dancing, folk dancing with free instruction, Iafortune ballroom. basketball, villanova at n.d., ace. concert, claude kipnis mime theater, o'laughlin aud., 
tickets: $3.50 general; $2 students. concert, woodwind quintet concert, sacred heart 
church. 

*The Observer 
Night Editor: Marti Hogan. Asst. Night Editor: Debbie Dahrling. Layout: Paul Schappler, Leigh 
Tunakan, Joe Bauer. Copy Reader: Gregg B. Bangs Day Editor: Marianne Schulte. Editorial Page: Ken Girouard. Features Page: Maureen 
Flynn. 
Sports Pages: Bill Brink, Tom Kruczek, Ernie Torriero. Typists: Camille Arrieh, Neil 

Viii, Jim Commyn. Night Controller: Dave Rust. Ad Layout: Sally Dentz, Tom 
Walrath, Mike Miller, Tom Whelan. 

!Patty comments on bank· robbery 
SAN FRANCISCO (AP) -Patricia Hearst, once a kidnap victim, smiled easily Tuesday as a teen­aged witness spoke of her as his kindly captor who comforted him while loading her gun. 
Thomas D. Matthews, an affable 19-year-old obviously pleased to see Miss Hearst again, testified that he remembered vividly .·her skillful clicking of a bullet in and out of her rifle while he watched. 
Miss Hearst swore in direct testimony Monday that she never handled a gun near Matthews. But under further questioning, she said her memory was cloudy and "it's possible" she loaded a rifle in his presence. , 
Matthews' recollection was far from cloudy as he told again and again of Miss Hearst's concern for his comfort during his 12 hours of 
Kennedy saves woman's life 
Washington (AP) Senator Edward Kennedy, D-Mass., recently saved a young woman from serious injury or death, columnist Jack Anderson reported yesterday. 
Anderson's column said that the woman, Carol Chealander, was entering a crowded elevator at the Capitol on Jan. 22 when the doors closed around her neck, trapping her. 
The elevator operator froze and the doors began to crush her neck, Anderson said. Kennedy twice told the elevator operator to let go of the handle and when there was no response the senator knocked the operator's hand off the control, allowing the doors to spring open, Anderson said. 
A spokesman in Kennedy's of­fice said he believed such an incident took place but had no details. The woman could not be reached. 
Anderson quoted the woman as commenting: "If Sen. Kennedy ""dn't kept his head, I'd be dead." 'he hasbeen out of work at the .:~te Republican Policy Com­
•.llttee since the incident, Anderson 
said. 
captivity by the Symbionese Liber­ation Army. 
"She patted me on the head and asked me if I was all right," he said. "I know she did this at least twice, but it might have been four or five times." 
Matthews testified during the second day of a hearing outside the jury's presence to decide whether key pieces of government evidence should be placed before the jury in 
U.S. District Court. 
The government planned to call to the stand three witnesses who met Miss Hearst in her role as "Tania" of the underground. 
The witnesess, it was learned, were neighbors in the predominan­tly black section of San Francisco where Miss Hearst lived for several months. 
Invited to meet her by SLA chieftan Donald "Cinque" DeFre­eze, the three reportedly have said Miss Hearst looked happy and spoke openly of her exploits as a revolutionary. 
Matthews, recalling his night on the run with the SLA, said Miss Hearst told him openly that "she was a willing participant'' in the bank robbery with which she is charged. 
He identified Miss Hearst's co­mpanions of May 16, 1'J74 as 
William and Emily Harris and said neither of them urged Miss Hearst to ,speak of the robbery. 
Matthews said Miss Hearst told her story after she and the Harrises had commandeered Matthews' van, takin~ him along in their frantic search for helpers in their flight fr9m the law. 
"I asked why they had robbed a bank," Matthews recalled. "Willi­am Harris stated they needed money. They were fighting guerril­la warfare and it wasn't easy. 
" ...Patty said she'd read in the 
paper how her hands were tied 
during the bank robbery and that 
SLA members were pointing guns 
at her," she said. "She said this 
was absolutely false." 
SLC Progressing 
(continued from page 1) 
on the Council in successive years. 
Thus, in one year the North Quad 
will elect a representative for two 
years and in the next year •the 
South Quad will elect a repre&ent­
ative for two years. 
In a statement made prior to the regular business of the mee~ing, Ed Byrne, student body president, reported on the progress of the SLC this year. "We have finished over two-thirds of the Committee on Undergraduate Life's \'COUL's) re­commendations and two-third of our own," he said. "I think we're doing much better than people think we are." 

for the millions who should not take aspirin...* 
TYLENOl: 
ONLY 

acetaminophen tablets 
88C 

safe. fast pain relief... without aspirin 
MAR-MAIN PHARMACY 426 N. MICHIGAN (NEXT TO McDONALD'S) 234-3184 
newstand and general store CALL 259-5209 _ : 113 w. monroe st. • * 1121 W. 8th• St. Mishawaka :.• 
-~~~XQ~~~~~~~xoox~~~xo~~~••••••••••••••••••••...............~ 
..,.. '\.. 

K~nitz to spe~k at : TOBY'S l 
Literary Festival t t Robert Penn Warren, scheduled a FIRST ANNIVERSARY f 
as a main speaker for the Sopho-' more Literary Festival, has inform-A A GALA EVENT f 
ed Festival organizers that a pre-' A vious commitment to speak in New t FEB 9 to 14 ' England has forced him to cancel · f his Notre Dame engagement. t II f A Festival organizers have also ' PLANTS specie y grown or our ' announced the addition of another ' 1 A speaker for the program, Stanley ~ anniversary Of SpeCiO priCeS ' 
Jasspon Kunitz,poetry. an editor andwill S'!l"l"'LES G' "'LORE",•• •
lecturer on Kunitz ~ M f deliver his lecture on Friday, Feb. t •t t soo/ ff f v I ' 
20, in the library auditorium. I ems up 0 lo 0 or your a entine t 
!~~H~GAN 289-1711 RI~f:z!END t 
~~~~-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
,.***********************************~ ~ 
* ~
i REGAL LANES ~ 
* * 
: is organizing : 
* * 
: a St. Mary's -Notre Dame : : "mixed doubles league" this spring.·: : We hope to make this a tradition : 
* * 
~ for our ND -SMC friends. : 
,. ** Meeting at Regal Lanes at 8:30 P.M., ** : * February 12th i* 
: for further information !
i 


i.,·,,. 


----~-------------------~---­
Wednesday, February 111 1976 the obse.Ver 
Communist-backed army overwhelm Angolans 
By The Associated Press 

Communist-backed forces in An­gola rolled over Huambo, adminis­trative capital of the Western-sup­plied National Union, and began menacing Silva Porto, its key military headquarters, on Monday. Britain acknowledged that many of its citizens, apparently mercena­ries, have been killed in the embattled southwest African state. 
U.S. officials in Washington said National Union-UNITA-and Na­tional Front-FNLA-troops pulled back to Silva Porto and were fighting "a rear-guard action" against Popular Movement-MPLA­forces after the collapse of Huambo 90 miles to the west. Full-scale fighting is expected to resume in mid-March after the rainy season ends. 
An estimated 6,000 Cuban troops closed in on Huambo from four directions Sunday after being airlif­
ted by helicopter to the UNITA capital, and Soviet-built tanks later rolled into the citv. according to UNITA intelligence sources. 
A downcast Jorge Sangumba, UNITA•s foreign minister, confir­med the fall ofHuambo and told a news conference in Lusaka, Zamb­ia ''there was indiscriminate killing of men, women and children by the advancing MPLA." British corres­pondents in Angola reported refu­gees were streaming toward Silva Porto from HuamJ>o. 
State Department officials in Washington, trying to explain the loss of Huambo, said the UNITA and FNLA forces "just don't have the weapons to match Soviet rock­ets and tanks." 
The MPLA, which has nearly completed its sweep of northern Angola, is now concentrating on the central part of the country, where Huambo and Silva Porto are. 
It is also pressuring Luso, further eastward on the Benguela railroad, 
In London, Prime Minister Har­old Wilson told Parliament that many Britons, apparently mercena­ries, have been killed in "warlike operations" in Angola, and that reports 13 or 14 were executed by their comrades for refusing to fight appear to be true. 
The executions were said to have occurred in northern Angola last week on orders of a Greek-born mercenary named "Col. Callen", who since has been reported slain, either by other mercenaries or FNLA agents. 

Byrne complains about Observer 
by Gregg Bangs Associate Features Editor and Matt Kane Staff Reporter 

Although the HPC went into closed session for part of their meeting last night, SBP Ed Byrne did not keep what was on his mind from the people in attendance. 
Byrne complained about the Observer emphasizing the failures of student government and treating the accomplishments as not being newsworthy. He plans to write a list of accomplishments and report on the current status of programs that student government has been working on this year. This list would be published in the Obser­ver. The HPC also expressed a desire to have a few stories published in the campus daily. 
The open session of the meeting was highlighted by a question-and­answer period with Fr. Terrence Lally, Assistant Vice-President of Student Affairs. Lally answered questions pertaining to the selec­tion of RA 's and the management of the senior club. 
Lally said that this year's total of 630 applicants is the largest amount ever for the 84 to 85 available resident assistant posi­tions. "Because of the volume of applicants, we cannot accept appli­cations of those other than semors and graduate students," Lally said. 
Lally hoped that financial need would not bias the selection pro­cess. 
Lally's greatest problem is get­ting the rectors and assistant rectors to conduct the interviews. "This is their greatest headache," Lally said of the rectors. "They are constantly being bothered at all hours." 
He summed up the anxiety of the selections by stating, "There seems to be some sort of game going on. The applicants want to be notified as soon as possible and the selectors want to notify as late as possible." 
Selection of Senior Club man­agement is made through Lally's office in conjuction with the present Senior Club staff, which conducts interviews. When appraising a candidate, Lally first looks over honesty and integrity. Secondary requirements are managerial and 
(continued on page 8) 

HPC proposes alcohol policy 
Dear Fr. Hesburgh, 
In the past two years hall life on the Notre Dame campus has un­dergone a considerable change. This alteration was brought about by the 1973 court ruling concerning liability in regard to underage alcohol consumption. Because of this ruling, we of the HPC have seen student migration to off-cam­pus activities. This trend has encroached on hall life and brought about a decline in hall spirit. As the elected officials of the twenty­one dormitories on campus, the members of the HPC feel it is our responsibility to do our utmost to alleviate this unfortunate situation. 
In response to this duty, we have addressed the problem and at­tempted to bring forth a workable solution. 
There were a number of ques­tions and factors primary in our determinations. Among these was the place of alcohol in the social life of a student. It would be untrue to say that alcohol is necessary or indeed wanted at every social activity. On the other hand it is equally erroneous to contend that alcohol doesn't play an important role in the social life of a young adult. We feel that the student body has in the past shown itself capable of responsibly and mature­ly coordinating alcohol consump­tion with social functions. There is no reason to believe that this trend will change. 
Another consideration we dis­cussed was that of University Policy. After talking to the University Insurance representa­tive, we were assured that no adjustment in our premium would be necessary if the campus alcohol policy were to change. Regardless of this, we must recognize the distinct possibility of a civil suit being levied against the University in the event of some accident cqncerning alcohol. Previous to 1973 this possibility was as preva­lent as today, if not more so because of the absence of the 
Faccenda Bill. We can hardly 
believe that the University was 
unaware of that danger previous to 
1973. Yet the administration saw 
fit to allow a much broader use of 
alcohol during those years preced­
Ing the 1973 court ruling. At this 
time we are puzzled as to why the 
reversal In policy. 
Indeed, we must realistically admit that-the danger of civil action against the University is present under ANY policy that the Univer­sity should decide upon. In e&sence, we feel that it is possible that the liability clause is being used a~ a smokescreen to cloud the real issue. 
A final topic of discussion in our meetings was the image of Notre Dame, and the relationship be­tween that image and. the p_resent alcohol policy. Notre Dame is an excellent school. It has done an amazing job of allowing individuals to find and develop their own interests. Notre Dame has an excellent reputation for its athletic accomplishments. Notre Dame is ranked eighth in the nation for academic achievement. The Ad­ministration in recent years has worked hard for bettering student life. Notre Dame has fused all of these in a rather successful man­ncr..lt would be a shame to make a conscious effort to change this working relationship. The ever-present grapevine is stocked with rumors about efforts by the Admi­
1 

nistration to· turn the University into an academic factory. Indeed, 
the present alcohol policy has often been pointed to as the first step in that direction. In the opinion of the HP{:•.~uch an orientation would be ruinous to the whole concept of Notre Dame. It would be ruinous to any attempt at revitalizing the social situation on campus. And it would be ruinous to any attitude of social awareness that might now inhabit the student body. 
In conclusion, we of the HPC recognize that the present alcohol policy is detrimental to campus life. 
We have studied and analyzed the situation. We sincerely hope that the administration will help us confront this problem facing our community. With this in mind, we have attempted to propose a policy which finds a compromise between the present situation and that of two years ago. The policy has met overwhelming approval of the HPC and it is our solution to the problem of the decline of social interaction on th_e Notre Da'?e campus. We promt~e _our contt~~ed effort~ ~nd opt6mtstt~.ally anttctp~te_ a st_mtlar effort by you the Admtmstratton. 
The Hall Presidents Council 
HPC PROPOSED ALCOHOL POUCY 
In the following guidelines we have a workable outline by which individual hall governments can structure their own alcohol policy. The need for a non-specific University policy is quite apparent. The make-up and facilities of the halls on campus vary considerably and what might be successful in one hall could fail in another. 
Each hall government would be responsible for any social interaction in its hall. At the beginning of each year, the hall council will compose their working regulations for the upcoming year. These individual guidelines must then by approved by the HPC. If a gathering is to be a hall-wide function, the direction, organization and supervision of the function will come under the auspices of the Social Commissioner in that hall. The Social Commissioner will use these guidelines formulated by the HPC in planning each function. 
Among the components necessary in the guidelines of each hall are: 
1. 
Maximum number of people that can be gathered in their public facilities; 

2. 
Amount of alcohol, if desired, for each person; 

3. 
Method by which party will be supervised (by hall members); 

4. 
How function will be advertised; and 

5. 
Where functions will be held, i.e., over a certain number the function must be staged in a public room. 


Any individual or group of individuals wishing to use a public room in the dormitory must complete a Party Form like that attached to the back of this proposal. Such a request must be submitted at least a week in advance of the scheduled date of the function. Ifthe hall council approves the request the gathering may be held. 
All section parties must also be approved by the Hall Council using the same format as outlined above. No hall sanction is necessary for private room parties. (Incursions on guidelines will be HJS l;llatters.). · · 
to gain stronger military and Wilson said "from all the facts political advantage. available, it appears probable that tragic incidents including the loss
Both Zambia and Zaire, which of life of a number of recruitedsupport UNITA and the FNLA mercenaries have taken place."
respectively, need the railroad for He said there was no doubt "thethe copper trade and have suffered substantial numbers killed in war­economically because of the loss of like operation...are very considera­the railroad link to the Atlantic. 
ble indeed."

Some Western observers believe Wilson declined to elaborate, butthe MPLA simply may isolate said he will make a full statementLobito, Angola's main port and the 
Tuesday and that his government terminus of the railroad with may act to stop the recruiting of nearby Benguela, if it can take "free-lance soldiers" in Britain for Silva Porto and Luso. the Angola civil war. 
.............................................., 
:: SENIORS!!! .i 
! SENIOR TRIP Balances will be ! :collected STARTING Monday, Feb 2: ! Mon-Fri 12-1:15 p.m. ! 
• 

: LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER ii (outside Student Activities Office) : 
i FRESHMEN i 
! SOPHOMORES ! 
i ANDJUNIORS i 
! There are a limited number of i i seats avaliable for ! ! THE SENIOR TRIP i i TO FREEPORT ! ! see a senior class officer or drop off i i a $50.00 desposit at the : ! STUDENT ACTIVITIES OFFICE ! 
!DEADLINE is Feb 11 i 
~-···········································-' 
'.---------------------------------~--~~~--~----~ 
'learafter year~I semester after semester~ the ( ollcgeMaster from Fidl'lin· 
Union IJfc lias lx.>cn the most acceptt'<l. most popular plan on campuses all oYerAmerit-a. 
Find out why. 
Call flu.• Fidl'lih·lJnion ('ollt.•gcMastcr t'icld Associatt• myour area: 
1005 E. LaSalle 





South Bend. Ind. Phone 287-2327 
1~:, 
·~ 
(()llc~d\l1slcr' 



------------~----------~----­
Panel centers on racial, athletic stereotyping 


by Maureen O'Brien Staff Reporter 

Black athletes pointed to athletic and racial stereotyping as an obstacle in their academic lives in a presentation at the Library Audito­rium last night. 
Speaking to a small audience of about twenty-five people, black athletes Randy Payne, Willie Fry, Danny Knott and Eugene Smith joined Ms. Paula Downing, fresh­man counselor, Mr. Oscar Brooks, asst. professor of economics and Mr. Larry Thomas, asst. professor of philosophy, in a panel discussion entitled ''Academics and Athletics for the Black Athlete." 
The presentation was one of a 
series being presented by the Black 
Cultural Arts Festival committee 
from February 8-14. 

Boarding costs s2 on grounded SST 
KISSIMEE,, Fla. (AP) -Fly­
ing to Europe at supersonic 
speeds aboard the Anglo-French 
Concorde will cost about $700, but 
you can board the American SST 
for just $2. The difference is that 
the U.S. plane isn't going any­
where. 

Displayed to curiosity-seekers 
like some prehistoric animal, a 
red-white-and-blue mockup of the 
now-scuttled American supersonic 
transport draws about 90,000 visit­
ors each year to a roadside museum 
in this central Florida Town. 

"We get quite a few visitors who 
were involved in building the 
SST," museum Director J.E. Jacks 
said. "They all feel it's a shame 
that the program was scrapped.'' 
Congress shelved the American 
SST program in 1971, in part 
because of environmentalist's fears 
the plane would be too noisy and 
dirty. And the environmentalists 
objected last week when Transpor­
tation Secretary William Coleman 
approved a 16-month trial for 
Concorde flights to New York and 
Washington from London and 
Paris. 

Even as the $60 million Concorde 
zooms into the United States, 
aviation buffs can still find artifacts 
of the American program. 

The SST mockup, built by the 
Boeing Co. of Seattle, as part of the 
more than $1 billion U.S. develop­
ment program, was purchased by a 
Syman, Neb., promoter who paid 
$31,119 for it at a Federal Aviation 
Administration-FAA-auction in 19­
72. 

The promoter, Mark 0. Morri­
son, shipped it to this site on nine 
train cars and opened the SST 
Museum for tourists en route to 
and from nearby Disney World and 
the Kennedy Space Center. 

Under the same roof is a proto­
type of a Pratt & Whitney engine, 
which was built for theaircraft under 
a $50 million contract but later was 
rejected in favor of a General 
Electric engine. 

Lockheed also built an SST 
mockup-which lost out to the ·Boeing model-that the FAA used for passenger evacuation tests, but it is no longer available for viewing. 
"It was parked outside and the 
weather got to it," said FAA 
spokesman Mark Weaver at the 
agency's experimental center in 
Oklahoma City. "Finally it was 
trucked away to the graveyard." 
Our 49th Anniversary! Spatial Prices thru Feb. 12 ALL SEATS $1.00 
Danny Knott was the first to suggest that black athletes are often slotted into an "only athlete" slot at many football schools. According to Knott, Notre Dame is not as bad as other football schools. 
Randy Payne reiterated on the athletic prejudice. "Kids look at you, see you're black and decide you're an athlete," he said. 
Payne then gave another examp­le of athletic stereotyping. "I remember one time when I was a freshman," he said, "a friend and I went into the bookstore. We were checking out and the saleslady asked my friend if he played football. When he said "no", she asked him if he played basketball. Again he said "no," so she asked him exactly what he played. My friend said, 'golf and tiddly­winks.''' 
Ms. Downing explained two major obstacles which freshman, black athletes have to conquer management of time and ego modification. 
According to Downing, most athletes and students, for that 
JJ _ Macrame Beads & Supplies ~U Shop and compare before you buy 
•oa~~ 

Genuine amber beads-E 11 ~A~J~f! . -Egyptian Scarab~,~litf ··-~ goat bone jewelry.
'~ ·, 

town & country · ' . ~ .-. . 2~0 miracl_e l~ne shopping center . . ' · mishawaka, 10d1ana 46544 
219/256-0111 
Come You Fightin' Irish 
WE'RE BEHIND THE IRISH 
matter) do not know how to budget their time effectively. 
"Athletes spend twenty hours on the football field. Then they spend twenty to thirty hours per week on academics. So obviously, they have to learn how to use their time," she said, 
Ego modification 

Downing also pointed out that black athletes must learn ego modification. She said the football (or basketball) popularity is not necessarily transferred to the class­room and the athlete must be able to adjust to this. 
Eugene Smith agreed that ego modification is an obstacle. "By the time you get to Notre Dame," he said, ''your ego is already developed and you become pretty well-known. Sometimes this works against you. When you miss a class, you're definitely missed." 
Prof. Brooks pointed out that sometimes it is a letdown for an athlete to o into a classroom as 
TO TOWN & COUNTRY ·FOR YOUR FAVORITE 
WINES-LIQUORS 
Both Stores Open Nights 'til 11 PM 
LIQUOR • WINE 10% DISCOUNT WITH ND-SMC I.D. BEER· BEST PRICE IN TOWN VOLUME DISCOUNT FREE DELIVERY 
opposed to going onto the field. Brooks added that he has never and would never give special academic consideration to an athlete just because he is an athlete. 
"I would, thongh, give special consideration to any student with a special concern," Brooks added. 
Prof. Thomas said he would be sensitive to an athlete's concerns. He was careful to distinguish between patronizing an athlete and being concerned with an athlete. 
Profs pressured 
When asked if he felt any outside pressures to give athletes special consideration, such as national or university-related pressures, Prof. Thomas said that he felt them but wouldn't bow to them. 
NowaBose Direct/Reflecting bookshelf speaker and its under $100. 
If you thought it couldn't be done, you don't know BOSE. Because the new BOSE MODEL 301 speaker is just that. A bookshelf speaker that provides reflected and direct sound performance in the tradition of the internationally-famous BOSE 901 ® and 501 speakers. 
11 provides such astounding performance for its size that, frankly, it's hard to believe that this speaker costs under $100. But it does. And, it's easy to place and can be adapted to all room environments. 
Come in this week and ask to hear a demonstration of the new 
hear it. 
~, 
'SM I iii 
I~ 
-+
TOWN AND COUNTRY 
SHOPPING CENTER RT.20 
"How can one not feel the pressure when three different peo­ple call one during the day to ask for a progress report on one of the athletes?'' he said. 
Willie Pry pointed out two things about black athletes: they should seek counseling if they need acad­emic help and there are smart athletes. 

"We had to go through the S.A.T.'s and have a 2.0 G.P.A. just like everyone else," he said. 
Pete Cannon, Kurt Robinson and Ted Howard opened the presentat­ion on behalf of the Black Cultural Arts Committee. They pointed out that it was time for appreciation of black culture by both blacks and whites and that black athletes are not just a black concern, but a human concern. 
FREE DELIVERY 
431 No. Hickory Rd. So. Bend 
~· 


Editor's note: Tax Tips is a weekly feature in the Observer as a service to its readers in filling out their income tax forms. Questions may be sent to the Observer, Tax Tips, Box Q,LaFortuneStudent Center. The questions and answers by Professors Kenf'.leth Milani and James Wittenbach of the Accounting Department will be printed in the Observer. 
Q. I live In the Notre Dame Apartments and have classes when the Tax Assistance Program Is offering Its aid on campus. Is there another time and place where I can go for help with my tax return? 
A. Yes. You can go to the Northeast Neighborhood Center at 803 Notre Dame Avenue for help between 5 p.m. and 8 p.m. on Monday evenings. Students who live in the Campus View Apartments c_ati. receive assistance at the Clay Neighborhood Center, 18254 Warrtck Street, on Tuesdays between 5 p.m. and 8 p.m. 
Q. l am a faculty member and I pay an annual fee plus monthly nnance charges on my credit card. Are these deductible? 
A. The annual fee is not deductible as interest expense because it is not interest. However, the monthly finance charges are deductible as itemized expenses. The annual fee can be deducted if you can verify that it relates to income-producing activity away from university (e.g., consulting, book publication, etc.) 
Q. I have heard that certaln people quality for a low-income allowance. What Is this, and how do I flnd out If I qualify? 
A. A low income allowance is designed to give low income taxpayers a tax free allowance. This will remove many taxpayers from the tax rools. For 1975, the low income allowance amounted to $1,600 (for single taxpayers) and $1,900 (for married taxpayers tiling joint returns). 
The low-income allowance is built into the Optional Tax Tables which accompany your 1040 A or 1040 package so you do not have to worry about meeting any qualifications ... unless you have a substantial amount of unearned income (e.g., dividends, interest). 
Women's caucus includes pro-busing platform stance 
by Kathleen McEntee Staff Reporter 

Last night at a meeting of the Notre Dame-St. Mary's Women's Caucus the group decided to adopt a pro-busing position to be inclu­ded in their platform for the Mock Political Convention. The caucus also heard representatives of th major Democratic presidential can­didates outline the views of their respective candidates on various women's issues. 
Chuck Wilson. head of the Black 

Caucus, addressed the women's group on the many facets of the busing issue. He also promised the support of the Black Caucus for proposals submitted by the Wo­men's Caucus. Following his talk, the Women's Caucus voted by a three-fourths majority to include a pro-busing stance in their platform 
for the convention. 
Nancy Brenner, co-chairperson 

for the Mock Convention, then 
outlined for the group the rules for 
the convention's proceedings. 
The rest of the meeting was 
devoted to hearing representatives 
of Birch Bayh, Jimmy Carter, 
George Wallace, Fred Harris, and 
Morris Udall present their respec­
tive candidate's position on areas 
that concern the Women's Caucus 
such as the Equal Rights Amend­
ment and the abortion issue. 
At the conclusion of the meeting 
the members of the Women's 
Caucus were told of an invitation 
from the Platform Committee for 
the Mock Convention to attend 
their Thursday gathering when 
they will decide on their formal 
.,lance on various women's issues. 

NANCY BRENNER 

Wednesday, February 11, 1976 the observer 
5 

Planks voted by convention 
by Karen Sikorski Staff Reporter 

Continuation of detente with Russia and research into new energy sources are among the polic y stands adopted last night by the Mock Democratic Convention's Pl­atform Committee. 
Several bills were debated and amended on a variety oftopics. The following planks were passed by the committee: 
Energy: Increased research in solar, geothermal, oil, nuclear, and coal energy, with attention to the long-range effects each method will have on the environment. Develo­pment of more efficient public transportation. 
Transportation: Improvement of railroads through a Rail Trust Fund from the federal government. Aid for road building, airport improve ment, and development of rural transportation systems. 
Environment: Strict enforcement of the Clean Air and Water Acts, and regulation of the sale of and use of pesticides. Reclamation of areas affected by strip mining. A minority plank proposes banning of the SST from U.S. skies. 
Western World: Reform of NATO to go beyond military aims. Cooperation with Western Europe on economic policy and world-wide full employment and low inflation. Encouragement of democracy in Portugal, Spain, Italy, and Greece. USSR: Continuation of detente and a military balance between the U.S. and U.S.S.R. At the same time, the 
U.S. should attempt to prevent the expansion of totalitarian spheres of influence in the world. 
Progress made in search at UK for biological clock 
by L. Abraham Rowe, Jr. Staff Reporter 
Scientists at the University of Kentucky are making progress in the search for the "BIOLOGICAL CLOCK". Recent evidence indi­cates that the day is approaching when they will be able to pinpoint the area of the brain which houses the "clock". 
Dr. Christine Beiswanger, of the University of Kentucky's School of Biological Sciences, spoke ·to the Notre Dame Biology Department Tuesday, explaining her recent work with slugs "Umax maximus" and circadean rhythms. 
Circadean ryhthms are biological processes which follow a diurnal cycle, that is, they repeat them­selves approximately every 24 ho­urs. The "biological clock" is the controller of these rhythms. 
"Limax" was chosen, according to Dr. Beiswanger, because they have a "distinct locomotive ryhthm which is easily modified". Limax shows very little movement during the day, but shows greatly height­ened activity at night. 
In a series of experiments, Dr. 
Beiswanger subjected "Limax" to ·light and dark periods of varying lengths and frequencies. In each case the animals altered their rhythms to that of moving in the dark periods and remaining still in 
the light periods. 
Dr. Beiswanger then surgically 
removed the slug's eyes, or more 
accurately, photo-receptors. The 
animals were still capable of alter­
ing their ryhthms as the periods of 
light and dark were altered. This 
indicated that perceptions of light 
1976-77 STUDENT BODY PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 
Prospective Presidential & SLC Candidates 
Mandatory Organizational Meeting 
TOMORROW 11 pm 
STUDENT GOV'T OFFICES 
Petitions, Procedures to be explained 
CALL 
0 ff.er 
eXpIres 
by the eyes was not necessary for the "biological clock" to function properly. 
By conducting the experiments on animals which have had portions of their brains removed, Dr. Beis­wanger is attempting to locate the section of the brain which contains "the clock." 
I 
I I 
I 
I 

1 
1 

1 
I 
~ 
I I I I I I I I I I I I I 
5uPPLY LIMITED 
2.2.8 MAlN ST. 
NO 


Hans Haus 
2803 South Michigan Street Phone 291-6521 
Germ8fl FOQd Our Specialty 
Created with Old World Atmosphere. Specializing in German and American Foods. 
• So\lth Bend's Finat Banquet ROOf'na 

The Alpine & Bawari8n Rooms Open 10:30 a.m. to 10:30 p.m.-Closed Sundays and Holidays 
n you 
shoulder it? 
A Lieut•nant of Marines. Command a Marine platoon or pilot a multi-million dollar Phantom jet. At your age that's 


more responsibility than moat men will ever know. Can you shoulder It? You begin leadership training to earn your lieutenant's bars next 
summer. No training of any kind Is required during the school year. If you can handle the Job, the Corps will make you a Lieutenant of Marines the day you graduate. Introduce yourself to the Marine Officer who visits your campus. 
TheMarines 
are looking for a few good men to lead. 
.. --~ ·... . . . ... .. .
~,.,.,.,.~ -...,.,.,.~ 
~ COUPON VALUE ~ 
FOR ~ -, J APPOINTMENT IJIM HAMMES PLUG &POINT SPECIAl~ 

China: An open attitude toward negotiations, with attempts to pr­

l
omote pro-West sentiment in Chin­

1
a. Contnued support of Taiwan as a separate nation. A minority plank advocates the role of the U.S. as a mediator between the Republic of China and Taiwan. 
Third World: Support of nation­al airlines and shipping facilities, and opposiiton to imperialism by naitons and corporations. Grain shipments to help alleviate hunger problems. 
National Defense: Support for a sufficiently strong military, cuts in waste, and a stronger navy. Debate on this plank will continue tonight. 
Topics to be debated at tonight's meeting include campaign financi­ng, lobby reform, and health care. 
~E[Nl}.:. ~.,. 
SH l RTS ARE IN. 

I REGULAR $23 95 * J
1 PRICE S3&.21 ••• NOW • Plas Tax I 
~ Install New Spark Plugs, Points and Condenser, Retime Engine, Restrobe ~ ~ Distributor. Price includes Parts and tabor on 8 Cyl. Cars. ~ 
I I I I I I I I I I I I I I 
I 
I 
I I I I I I I I I I I I
• 




*1~J.QI2,~rver
Founded November 3, 1966 

The Observer is published by the students of the University EDITORIAL BOARD of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. It does not necessarily 
Terry Keeney Editor-in-Chief reflect the policies of either institution. The news is reported AI Rutherford Managing Editor 
as accurately and objectively as possible. Editorials represent Jim Eider Exealtive Editor the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Com­Pat Hanifin Editorial Editormentaries are the views of individual editors. Opinions, cartoons and regular columns express the views of their 
Bob Mader News Editor authors. Column space is available to all members of the Maureen Rynn Campus Editor community, and leHers are encouraged to promote the free Mary Janca St. Mary's Editor expression of varying opinions on campus. Ken Bradford Copy Editor Val Zurblis Wire Editor Editorials: 283-1715 News: 213-1661 Business: 283-7471 
Tom O'Neil Features Editor Business Manager Tom Modglin Bill Brink Sports Editor Advertising Manager Tom Whelan 
Dan Sanchez Senior Night Editor 
Wednesday February 11, 1976 


faculty staff appointees to Seminar. a platform advocating abortion. 
opinion 
Shuttle's Not Bad 
Compared to the 
Real World 

iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii._pottie cooney 
In memory of the hours I wasted going back and forth between 
LeMans and The Observer: 
So you think the shuttle bus is undependable, and that the bus drivers are_ maniacs. Just wait until you have to rely on public transportatiOn to and from work everyday, week in and week out. 
At least you are all aware there is a shuttle bus schedule (even if the driver isn't); it is just a question of remembering 'Does it come at a quarter to or a quarter after, ten to or twenty after?' You may be late for your classes but sometimes not late enough. If you're waiting behind Neiuwland your feet may become attached to the block of ice you are standing on, but you know it is just a matter of 
minutes. 
I have come across a bus route in Chicago that is more unique and unpredictable than the shuttle. Like any other CTA bus, the Broadway 36 runs like clockwork in the morning and runs helter skelter in the afternoons and evenings. In the evening they run not at all or four together, with the first two racing by, while you wave frantically, and the second two competing for the same stop. 
The first thing I noticed about the people who ride the "36" at night, is that no one sits next to the windows. Everyone sits in the aisle seats and the left overs stand in the aisle. The logic behind only sitting is aisle seats is to make a quick exit but is defeated by people not brave enough to crawl over someone to sit down. 
Another unique aspect to the evening passengers on the "36" is that each seems to be inclined to make animal noises of various types pig, cat, bird, dog, lion, .etc. There are also some who sing or speak for the benefit of their fellow passengers. 
It is no wonder that the drivers of the Broadway 36 often just disappear off the bus at the corner of Broadway and Foster. At least you know that if a shuttle bus driver is not in sight, he is either . in the SMC Coffeeshop or the ND Library basement. Once a driverThe reading list for Seminar is Abortion has become the most disappears off the "36", he is gone for good.
homogeneous, with room for enou­common type of elective surgery in Weekend commuters on the "36" often bring their pets with them Sem's O.K. gh flexibility to allow the instructor this country, and the fear of on the bus. One Saturday I sat next to a lady and her pet snake. Ito assign for discusion and dialogue legalized abortion on demand has must admit the snake was in a box, complete with grill and seemed at most two selections per term of been realized. 
well behaved. However, snakes are not my favorite creatures, so Iher or his own liking. Thus your It is apparent that we have 
Dear Editor: statement that reading lists (sic) adopted a very clinical attitude beat a hasty retreat off the bus four blocks too soon. vary appreciably is a mis-statemen­towards the horror of abortion and 
Not long ago an elderly woman seated across from me turned to me
To me, both the spirit and the t. we have become insensitive to the saying: "In our religion men do NOT touch women until marriage 
purpose of Seminar have not However, your comment that violence that abortion perpetrates. "strayed far from its original students "scramble" to register for No one can afford te be neutral there is none of this sex business, Now on Tuesday nights you can mission to provide serious academ­sections with little or lax requirem­when basic foundations of human bring your beau to our meeting, sing the first hymn together, then 
ic discussion of the classics.'' To ents is conceded but this is a existence are threatened. We must you must separate. Everyone is allowed one chicken coop, and with the contrary, my two sections of perennial University-wide problem not compromise on the issue of each good deed you perform a bee cell is added, to your hive," Seminar, I feel, are open and reflective of utility-maximising and abortion because we feel intimidat­So the next time you are waiting for a shuttle be glad that most of 
enlightening discussions of books cost (effort)-minimising students. ed by the liberal attitudes of the your fellow pasengers are relatively normal (except on Friday and about which students might have (This calculus by Seminar registra­anti-life people. Saturday nights or the night of an Elton John concert) and heard but would not have read but nts occurs half as frequently than in As women, especially, we must remember that it is just a matter of fifteen minutes or so, and that 
for Seminar. I consider my role as other Department course offerings, not be led to believe that abortion is you can probably walk to your destination, if you are not already something more than a night since the Seminar staff roster is necessary in order to secure equal frozen, or soaking wet (weather permitting). 
watchman, casually and diffidently published only for Spring registrat­rights. Why must we deny equal 
moderating discussions. Rather my ion.) As far as "some" academic rights to the unborn in order to 
DOONESBURY
function is more active than that. I advisors "counseling" their stude­secure them for ourselves? attempt to draw out students' nts to avoid Seminar "as a waste of comments, criticisms and evaluati­time," they are to be questioned as Helen Gallagher ons of the assigned reading materi­academic derelicts. MariaGarvy 
YOU'R£3 I'M GAY,
als. Since the Renaissance man has 
WHAT, JOANIE,
An educated person ought not be succumbed to the specialist in the 
ANOY? 6AY. 
prevented from reading and discu­multi-versity, staff requirements 
I

ssing Aristotle simply because that for Seminar ought to continue, not 
Cheery

person has no intention in becomi­by default but by design, to draw ng an Aristotelian scholar. Philoso­on the talents of the non-specialist, phers possess no monopoly on to serve as seminar leaders. Aristotle; an educated person is But before the hastily and ill­Folks entirely capable of explication. And diagnosed maladies of Seminar are that becomes much more exciting allowed to terminate an essential and intellectually rewarding when program, serious thought must be Dear Editor: students from varied disciplines directed to preserve Seminar, at interface with one another in least as an optional course availabl­
With all the complaints about 
Seminar. Academic elitism overp­e to all University students and as a ~~ings on campus (albeit, justified), owers and crushes the idea of a free forum in which the great ideas of tt s about time we recognizeduniversity when inter-disciplinary the past are discussed by particip­something nice. I think one brightintercourse is proscribed. ants of diverse disciplinary perspc spot on campus is the Huddle· in Your comment on the quality of ctives. That is the university tradit­particular, the employees behind the Seminar staff is both calumnio­ion. 
the counter and register. 
us and demeaning, particularly in 
They always greet you with a bigreference to law and graduate Richard D. Trainer smile and a "How are ya, hon?",
student instructors. Not only are even at the ungodly hour of 8:00 these law and graduate students a.m. on those dreadful winteryhighly qualified in their respective Shocked South Bend mornings. They make academic fields at the University, it seem so easy to be pleasant. I but some can account for prior once asked one of the ladies
by Caucus

experience in education. (I am serving coffee how she managed to presently an Assistant Professor of be so cheery all the time. She Economics at another college from 
Dear Editor: replied, "Isn't it better than being
which I am on leave of absence grouchy?" I think it's a nice way to while studying economics and law We were shocked and disappoin­look at things. 
at Notre Dame). Nothing need be ted to learn that the ND-SMC said about the high calibre of full 
Women's Political Caucus ad~pted J.Makowski 
by Garry Trudeau 



----------------------------------------. 
Wednesday, February 11, 1976 the observer 
7 




sophomore literary festiual 1976 

LOUIS SIMPSON Louis Simpson, the official poet for the 
U.S. Congress, was born in Jamaica of a Scottish father and Russian mother and was educated in proper British style. And yet, one critic has commented, it is hard to remember these facts, "so involved in the American writer's traditional search for a specifically American mode of experience is Louis Simpson." 
Simpson came to the United States in 1940 at the age of 17 to continue his studies at Columbia University. but left to serve in the army, where he earned a Bronze Star and two Purple hearts. Simpson's poems about World II are considered modern classics. 
From 1950-1955 Simpson held the posi­tion of associate editor with the Hobbs­Merrill Publishing Company, and later became a professor of English at Columbia U niversitv. He has also taught at the 
University of California at Berkley and is currently on the faculty of the State University of New York at Stony Brook. 
In 1904, Simpson was awarded the Pulitzer Prize in Poetry for his book At the End of the Open Road. He has published six volumes of poetry, one novel and several volumes of essays and criticism. Simpson has most recently been acclaimed for his book Three on the Tower, a critical study of the lives and works of Ezra Pound, 
T.S. Eliot and William Carlos Williams. Of his work, Simpson explains, "I have written about many subjects: war, love, American landscape and history. I believe 
that poetry arises from the inner life of the poet and is expressed in original images and rhythms. The language of poetry," he 
says, "should be closely related to the language in which men actually think and speak." 
Simpson will share his work and his insights with the Festival audience Wed­nesday at 8 p.m. in the Library Auditor­ium. 
GALWAY KINNELL 

A prolific writer, as well as an author of 
recognized talent, Galway Kinnell has 
published six volumes of poetry, one novel 
and several translations from French 
writers since 1960. In that time he has also 
served for one year as a CORE volunteer 
and been jailed for his Civil Rights 
activities in Selma, Alabama. 
Kinnell's poetry is direct, occasionally 
violent. The poems are statements of 
realities suffused with images of time, 
death and movement. His poem "The Last 
River" is a visual description of his 
imprisonment and the activities from which 
it resulted, and yet it avoids the many 
cliches inherent in ideological reflections 
on the rights of man. 
The Book of Nightmares, published in 
1971. is usually considered Kinnell's finest 
volume of poetry. The ten poems of 
numbered units evolve around the theme 
of the omnipresence of death in life. 
Kinnell was born in Rhode Island in 1927 

and graduated from Princeton University 
of Rochester. He received a Fulbright 
Fellowship in Paris in 1955-1956, and while 
living abroad he taught in France and Iran. 
Kinnell was awarded a Guggenheim 
Fellowship and the Longfellow Foundation 
Award after the publication of What a 
Kingdom It Was in 1960. 
Kinnell's other honors include a grant 
from the Rockefeller Foundation, the 
Brandeis University Creative Arts Award 
and an Amy Lowell Traveling Sc"olarship. 
He is currently teaching at St. Laurence 
University and living in New York City. 
Kinnell will close the Festival Saturday 
with a presentation at 8 p.m. in the Library 
Auditorium. 
sunday, februarr 15, 1976 
through 

saturday, february 21, 1976 
JOHN GARDNER John Gardner has been hailed by some for rescuing the American novel from a premature death. Moving from ancient Greece through early Britain to contemporary America, Gardner approaches his subjects from innovative angles, experimenting with form, character and plot. When compiling Jason and Medeia from the scattered episodes of the Greek hero, Gardner resurrected the homeric epic form. In Grendel, perhaps his wittiest novel, the author retells the British epic Beowulf from the antagonist's point of view. The hero of Gardner's recent 
best-seller Nickel Mountain is a fat, ugly, 
middle-aged man who marries a pregnant 
teen-ager. 

Born and raised in Batavia, New York, Gardner studied chemistry for two years at De Pauw University and then switched to Washington Unive~sity in St. Louis with 
MAY SARTON Acclaimed by the New York Times Book Review as one of Ameica's three most genuine writers of the century, May Sarton has published 11 volumes of poetry, 14 novels and seven other books oh'llixed prose. She has received numerous awards and honors, including a Guggenheim fellowship, a fellowship in the American Academy of Arts and Sciences and a $10,000 grant from the National Founda­tion of the Arts and Humanities. Sarton's early works reflect a love for her birthplace and her early life in Belgium. Born in 1912 to a Harvard historian of science and an English artist, Sarton left 
her homeland to escape the armies of 
theKaiser and came to the United States with her family. 
She entered Vassar at the age of 17, but dropped out of college to join a theatre repertory. company. The theatre company failed during the depression of the 1930's, so Sarton turned to teaching creative 

"How can the books be broken to yield the dynamic answer, 
And we embody thought in living as does the dance, the dancer?" --W.S. Yeats 
the Intention of becoming a great poet. Transferring once more to the State University of Iowa, Gardner said he "worked hard and wrote worse than in my childhood. Became, by accident, a medievalist.' • 
During those years of academic musical chairs, he earned a Ph.D. and Woodrow Wilson and Danforth fellowships. Gardner has also been honored by the National Endowment for the Arts and has been named a Guggenheim Fellow. He cur­rently teaches Old and Middle English at Southern Illinois University-Carbondale. 
Gardner will give his presentation at the Festival Monday at 8 p.m. in the Library Auditorium. 
writing and choral speech and writing poetry. Her first volume of poems, Encounter In April, was published in 1937. 
"A major theme of my novels,"Sarton writes, "has been how the singular man or woman may find his identity and/or fulfillment through an art or profession." Sarton herself has never married, but has led a varied life as lecturer, writer, teacher and one-time script writer of propaganda films for the Office of War Information. 
Her novels and prose works include As We Are Now, Crucial Conversations and JournaJ of a Solitude. 
Sarton will read from her poetry and prose and open herself to discussion with the Festival audience Thursday at 8 p.m. in the Library Auditorium. 
ROBERTHASS 

Robert Hass once said, "I began writing seriously when I found that I could write about myself and the world I knew ... in a fairly direct and simple way." 
"For a long time I felt a compulsion to direct myself to large issues," Hass said. 
While teaching English at the State University of New York in Buffalo, Hass wrote a great deal about war and alienation. It was the time of student unrest and, as faculty advisor to the campus Students for a Democratic Society (SDS), Hass was subpoenaed to appear before a grand jury investigating anti-war activities. 
Hass has also addressed himself and his poetry to social issues. Two of his best-known poems are entitled "Lament for the Poles of Buffalo" and "The Pornographer. • • 
In gentler moments, Hass writes of 
nature. He is particularly drawn to his 
native West Coast and the surrounding 
mountains. The published volume of 
Hass's poetry is entitled Field Golde and is 
published in the Yale Series of Younger 
Poets. 

Hass received his B.A. from St. Mary's 
College in Oakland, where he currently teaches English. The recipient of Wood­row Wilson and Danforth fellowships, he obtained his M.A. from Stanford in 1965. Hass is currently involved in teaching and in writing new poetry which is published in such periodicals as Nation, Poetry and Choice and in several literary anthologies. 
Hass will appear at the Festival Tuesday .at 8 p.m. in the Library Auditorium. 
JORGE LUIS BORGES 
Recognized as one of the greatest writers 
of international stature alive today, Jorge Luis Borges has distinguished himself as a poet, critic, essayist and creator of the remarkably compressed, emotionally com­pelling short fiction for which he is most 
famous. 
Borges has been described as "a citizen of everywhere and nowhere;" his special­ties include Old Norse. the tango, gaucho poetry, Dante, Cervantes, Schopenhauer 
Emerson, De Quincey and Chesterton. 
Borges was born in Buenos Aires. Argentina in 1899. He received much of his education in Europe. where his parents settled at the outbreak of World War I, but returned to Argentina in 1921. A notorius political figure as well as noted man of letters, Borges was demoted by the Peron regime from director of the National Library to chicken inspector. Borges resumed his former post when the Peron government was ousted in 1955. He has served as professor of English literature at the University of Buenos Aires and has lectured at many universities in the United States. 
Borges has received honorary degrees from Columbia University, University of Oxford, University of Jerusalem, and the University of Los Andes in Colombia. In 1971 he was made an honorary member of the American Academy of Arts and Letters and the National Institute of Arts and Letters. 
Borges has been awarded the Gran Premio Nacional de Literature (1957), the Prix Formentor (with Samuel Beckett in 1961), and the Inter-American Library Prize (1970), as well as other awards and honors. 
His works in English tr-.n<:lation include two prose collections, Labyrinths and Ficciones. 
Borges will open the Festival Sunday at 8 
p.m. in Washington Hall. 
STANLEY KUNITZ Stanley Kunitz, recognized for his talents as an essayist, editor and transla­tor, is most widely-acclaimed for his achievements in poetry. Winner of the Pulitzer Prize for Poetry in 1959, Kunitz is the current chancellor of the Academy of American Poets and is a member of the National Institute of Arts and Letters. He is currently a member of the graduate teaching faculty at Columbia University, where he "tries to help each person rediscover the poet within himself. I say 'rediscover'," Kunitz explains, "because I am convinced that it is a universal human attribute to want to play with words, to beat out rhythms, to fashion images, to tell a story, to construct forms. •• Kunitz graduated summa com laude from Harvard in 1926 and received his 
M.A. a year later from the same Univer­sity. For a time he was a Sunday Feature writer on his hometown newspaper, and then became editor of the Wilson IJbrary Bulletin. He served for two years as a staff sergeant in the army, where he edited a news magazine for servicemen. 
Kunitz published his first volume of poetry,Passport to the War, in 1944. In 1946, he returned to the American campus scene as professor, poet-in-residence and editor. Kunitz has served on the faculties of Bennington College, Brandeis Univer­sity and Potsdam (NY) State Teachers College. 
In addition to his Pulitzer prize, Kunitz has been awarded a Guggenheim fellow­ship, a Ford Foundation grant and number of university and literary honors. 
Kunitz will appear at the Festival Friday at 8 p.m. in the Library Auditorium. 


Hass 

Lockheedadmitswidespread bribes 
Lockheed Aircraft Corp.'s admis­ed a three-man commission to touched off by it produced these COLOMBIA -President Alfonso to a local contractor. An opposition sion that it paid S22 million to investigate allegations that Prince reactions in other countrtes: Lopez Michelsen ordered an official parliamentary group asked for a 

foreign officials and businessmen Bernhard, the 64-year-old husband threatened the future Tuesday of of Queen Juliana, received $1.1 the Japanese government and the million of the Lockheed money. He Dutch monarchy and hampered has denied the accusations and said efforts to form a new Italian he welcomes the inquiry. cabinet. It also set off official Reporting the payments to pro­inquiries or calls for such inquiries mote aircraft sales, the Soviet news in Colombia and Turkey. agency Tass said the "scandalous 
The leading Japanese opposition machinations" of Lockheed were party, the Socialists, demanded linked to the desires of the U.S. that a former prime minister be military-industrial complex to make added to the eight men already "fabulous profits" and enrich the summoned to testify under oath government treasury. before a committee of parliament. "It is easily understood that 
The Socialist chairman said Prime other, including moral, considerat­Minister Takeo Miki's Liberal-De­ions are relegatedto-the background mocratic cabinet would be forced to when such profits are involv­
resign if the Lockheed affair was ed," wrote a Tass commentator. thoroughly probed. Testimony coming out of a U.S. The Dutch government appoint-Senate subcommittee and reports 
Gov't spending too much­Reagan, Ford inagreement 
CONCORD, N.H. (AP)-When Soviet detente. But that doesn't 
Ronald Reagan uses his mousetrap seem to be a major concern in New 
line or President Ford jokes about Hampshire, judging by the ques­
the price of government beer, the tions asked of the candidates. 
Republican rivals are aiming at the Question-and-answer sessions 
same target; Washington, and a are the basic format of the Reagan 
federal government they agree is campaign. He calls them Citizens 
too big and powerful. Press Conferences, meaning that 
They differ on what to do about voters, not newsmen, are permit­
it. But on a good many points, the ted to ask questions. 
President and his challenger could Ford held one news conference 
trade speeches and go right on and two question hours, in Concord 
talking. and in Durham, during his week­
For example: end in New Hampshire. He did it 
"Freedom is today misinterpre­Sunday night at the University of 
ted by too many to mean the instant New Hampshire, facing down 
equalization of everyone's social hecklers and drawing cheers from 
and economic situation at the most of the 3,500 people in a field 
public expense through the machi­house crowd. Reagan takes his turn 
nery of the federal government.'' in the same arena Tuesday night. 
That's Ford, not Reagan. In Nashua, Ford noted that the 
Or: area has attracted industries inclu­

"Balancing the budget is like ding a brewery thatemploys some 
protecting your virtue; you have to 400 people. 
learn to say no." "But I hope no one will contend 
Reagan. that the cure for the unemployment 
Both candidates are telling the is to build government breweries to 
voters that private enterprise, not brew government beer," he said. 
government, has to produce the "Quite honestly, I don't think that 
jobs to cope with unemployment. the United States government 
Both favor a constitutional amend­
could make beer for less than $50 a ment to permit prayer in public six pack.'' schools. Both are advocates of nuclear power development, which Williamson reacts has become a state issue because of controversy over a long-delayed (continued from page 1) $1.6 billion plant proposed for 
increase the teacher-student ratio,Seabrook. 
but that's a college-wide prob-
Reagan favors a constitutional tern," Williamson added. 
amendment to ban abortions unless Williamson mentioned that a 
the mother's life is at stake; Ford number of students and faculty 
supports a different amendment members were concerned by the 
that would leave that question to fact that a number of seminars 
the states. were cancelled. This was to avoid 
Both advocate a strong national having faculty members teaching 
defense--with Reagan suggesting small seminars and immense lee­
that Ford's ouster of James R. ture classes. "It's not fair to the 
Schlesinger as secretary of defense faculty members," he said. 
casts doubt on administration devo-The dropping of the seminars 
tion to that cause. gives the opportunity for schedul-
They differ on foreign policy, ing reasonably sized classes, Wil­
given Reagan suspicion of U.S.--Hamson explained.
************************************
l Feb. 9-11 l 
* * 
investigation and said he will askITALY-Premier-designate Aldo for copies of U.S. congressionalMoro, working feverishly to put records after Bogota newspaperstogether a new minority Christian published what were purported toDemocratic cabinet and end a be Lockheed documents showing34-day government crisis, was that two former Colombian air forceunder pressure to drop Luigi Gui, commanders asked kickbacks frominterior minister in the caretaker Lockheed. 
government. Gui, a former defense minister, was named by several TURKEY -Defense Minister Italian newspapers as a recipient of Ferit Melen branded as "an insidi­Lockheed money. Gui, who has ous affront'' to the national presti­denied it, asked the state prosecut­ge a report form the subcommittee or to investigate. that Lockheed paid about $1 million 
full probe by the national assembl­y. 
In Japan, Yanosuke Narazaki of the Socialist party told the budget committee of the lower house of the diet that Kakuei Tanaka, when prime minister, allegedly was invo­lved in a 1972 government decision to switch from a plan to produce anti-submarine patrol palnes dom­estically and import the Lockheed P3C instead. Japan has not import­ed any P3C's. 

HPC talks over interhall sports, laundry 
(continued from page 3) compatibility abilities. Lally leans more toward business majors than applicants from the colleges of Arts and Letters or Science. Committee members complained about the "excess charges" levied against the residence halls for damages. Many presidents would like to see Director of Interior Maintenance Jaworski at the next meeting to answer questions on the 
Mock _convention hearings held 
The Mock Convention Committee will hold platform hearings on Thursday, February 12 at 6:30p.m: in 127 Nieuwland. The topics of school finance, busing, abortion, minority rights and women's rights will be discussed. 
'JULIO'S 
NOW HAS 
PAN 
PIZZA!!! 

PHONE 232-7919 
subject. Complaints about the interhall sports was conspicuous.quality of se_rvice in the dining halls The committee wished to have would be worked in conjuction with questions answered on: (1) receiv­Joe Corpora of·the Food Advisory ing the ACC basketball courts for Council. inter-section games, (2) coopera­
The committee was divided ac­tion with the North-South Quad 
cording to sex on the question of All-Star game, and (3) Off-Campus whether women's halls should students' eligibility in playing in open up their laundry rooms to former halls' teams. 
men. The. males want a quick 
solution to their dirty laundry and Dave Walters addressed the the women worry about adding to HPC with the idea of organizing an already overcrowded facilities. arm-wrestling contest. The finals Both s-;:xes finally decided to push would be held during halftime~ of for laundry facilities for men on the Marquette basketball game. 
campus. Walters hopes to have a two-dollar The absence of Dominick Napo­entry fee and have a number of litano, assistant athletic director for weight classes. 
Are You Graduating Soon? * Are You Eligible to Teach in High School? * Are You Willing to Help Young People Through Education7 We Are The Christian Brothers* We Are a Roman Catholic Religious Order of Teaching Brothers We Have a Live-In Program for You  
* You Will Become Actively Involved with Us: -In Our Living of Community -In Our Educational Service * You Will Have an Excellent Opportunity to Sea if Religious Life Is for You. BROTHER LAWRENCE PORRETTA. F.S.C. Director of VocationsWrite or Call for More 200 De La Salle DriveInformation: Lockport, Illinois 60441GIVE IT A TRY!! (815) 838-8900 • Ex. 68  

i CLAUDEKIPNIS a : MIME THEATRE ~ 
* *
* : presented by * : 

There will be an instructive
* * *
presentation at 7:30 pm,

* * 
: N.D.'sCAC,SMC,&IUSB : Wednesday and Thursday, 
February 11 & 12, in the LaFortune* * TV Room I Auditorium. Note that
* Wed, Feb. 9, 8 p.m., Performance * this is a date change from the original one-day-only scheduling.
* * 
The presentation will be held for

*: Olaughlin Aud. *: 
two days, not one. 

* * 
: Tickets on Sale at N.D. Student Union : 
** Ticket Office * 
* * 
: $3.50Genera1Admission : 
Come and be turned-on to dynamic layout design Refreshments will

*'*********\~~2.~~ii~~f~~l~*******'* be served. 


Wednesday, February 11, 1976 
the observer 

Bayh outlines plan to revive housing industry 

.. 


.· t 
."' .............. "" ..... ,. ..

1 • '\ ~.-:;: '\ ....... '... • •.• c • • ... 
'· 

International students speak on American life 
and technology available here. Fr. tion is the norm there everyday. It in the Phillipines. It is still basis. Many of them have basic Lawrence Kanyike noted that the is a struggle to obtain food, shelter difficult for a woman, but the reading problems, which must be Ugandan government sent him or even drinkable water in India. situation is improving." overcome before they are issued a here in an effort to train natives to Here, even when the economy is Luis Carballo summed up the diploma recognized by the state of 
assume the teaching positions that bad, you can have decent shelter objectives of the international stu­Indiana and colleges. The academy 
Europeans now hold. William and food on the table." dents in coming to Notre Dame. is now funded by the Urban Kwadwo Darley of Ghana cited the Another inquiry brought wo­"The facilities in my native Colum­League, National Education Asso­
U. S. leadership in world business ciation, and the South Bend Public 
men's lib into the discussion. bia are very poor. I have come 
as his reason for earning his MBA Schools.
Egypt, said Rosy Elias, has no here to learn as much technology as at Notre Dame. women's rights movement as such, posible, so that I can take my skills Fr. Daniel O'Neill, director of the 
In response to a question of but women there are allowed to home and put them to good use for Notre Dame International Students whethertheUnited States deserves work according to their abilities. my people." Program, hopes to continue the its reputation as the "land of Maria Sala, though disavowing the The Street Academy consists of discussion programs in the future. plenty," Lokesh Patel illustrated goals of women's lib said, "Wo­about 150 students, who returned He cited them as being useful the conditions in India. "Starva-men can hold responsible positions to school entirely on a voluntary educational tools. 
Governors taking hard-line on spending 
By The Associated Press reases." night?" he asked. "Must we fear Colorado Gov. Richard D. Lamm,Milliken said the "constraints on being blown apart at an airport
The nation's governors are tak­a Democrat, said the state's econ­ing a hard-line approach to fiscal spending need not mean const­terminal or grabbed in an alley or omic condition "is healthier than 
raints on creativity" and he pro­robbed and beaten on the way to
problems this year in state of the the condition of the nation as a 
posed a "tax base sharing" plan to work ... ?"
state messages that stress holding whole." 
channel revenues from growingdown taxes and spending. Several communities in suburbs and otherchief executives also call for trim­areas to central cities like Detroit.
ming government bureaucracy. 

Bentsen takes hat from ring Illinois Gov. Daniel Walker, a
An Associated Press spot check Democrat, renewed his pledge toshowed many of the state messages block new taxes and urged legisla­echoed President Ford's State of AUSTIN Tex. (AP) -Sen. Lloyd Sanford announced last month thattors to resist demands for higherthe Union and budget addresses in Bentsen withdrew as a national he was withdrawing because ofspending. "To those who say wewhich he warned that the country contender for the presidency today, financial problems in his campaignshould spend money we do notfaces "hard choices" on spending. saying he would confine his campa­and was returning to his job ashave, to those who demand more,"The state of our Union is better, ign to his home state. president of Duke University.more, more, the answer must bein many ways a lot better, but still 
no, no, no.'' ''After studying the results ofnot good enough," Ford said. He The governor took note of the the early caucuses, I do not think it 
proposed a $394.2 billion budget, E1JR~PE
Bicentennial in saying that crime would be either useful or producti­representing an increase of 5.5 per control would be one of his critical ve to continue campaigning across tc~s Jlo CCM~"mycent over the $373.5 billion spent in 
goals for 1976. the nation," the Texas Democrat thdn I ~iii~ fdre !
fiscal 1976. ~· 60 day aDvance payment requ•red
"After 200 years, must we be said in a statement.
The bare-bones budget theme was most evident in the highly afraid to walk through the park or "I will no longer campaign for 7~ .._. ;;?i1lree 800-325-4867 
take public transportation late at the presidency outside of my home ~ Un;Travel Charters industrialized states that have been state," he said. "Rather I willhardest hit by the recession. 
concentrate my energies on servingSouthern and Western states gene­
ARCHITECTURAL & on seeking election to a secondrally have fared better, although Students must Texas and the nation in the Senate; 
their governors also warned that 
MODEL SUPPLIES

advance register term as a senator from Texas, andthe days of easy spending are over. 
STRUCTURAL SHAPES

on pulling together a united deleg­ation from Texas to the Democratic Gov. William Milliken's address "All undergraduate students pres­
to Michigan legislators was typical. ently enrolled who plan on return­
BALSA WOOD "We are going to need restraints ing to the University for the fall 
convention in New York City." the likes of which you and I have semester of 1976, must advance Bentsen, who will be -55 on not seen in this capital," the register at the Office of Students' Wednesday, said he would be on 
~o/!4

Republican governor said. Accounts, Room 102, Administra­the presidential "ballot in Texas 
HOBBY SHOP INC.

Promising no tax increases, Mil­tion Building, during the week of and in Texas only." 
713 NORTH MAIN ST.

liken said: "Now is no time to add February 9 to 13, from 9:00 to 11:30 He became the second announc­
MISHAWAKA, IND.

to the burdens of individual taxpay­a.m. and 1:30 to 4:00 p.m. ed Democratic presidential aspira­
46544

ers. Now is no time to add to the Students at this time are required nt to withdraw from the race. 
PHONE 255-8111

tax burdens of business. The to make a $50.00 deposit. Any F~rmer North Carolina Gov. Terry 
condition of Michigan's economy ... student who advance registers 
r;;;; . .,........
is so delicate I do not want to see it after this period will be charged a 
jeopardized by ill-advised tax inc-$10.00 late fee." 
m 
~ir Richard's 
BARBER STYLING

FDA ban pn dye delayed 
WASHINGTON (AP)-The U.S. market or in the process of being 
~~~~~~-------­

Court of Appeals on Tuesday manufactured with the dye, altho­
UNISEX HAIR SULING 

continued its delay of the Food and ugh those products would be in the Drug Administration'splan to ban marketplace for the next year or 
129 DIXIEWAY SOUTH ROSEtAND
Red No. 2, the second most widely two, he said. 
used dye in foods, drugs and The FDA decision was based on 
IN PORTAGE RfALTY BUILDING 277.0734
cosmetics in the United States. a statistician's report, on a rat-fee­ding study, which counted only
A three-judge panel said the stay cancerous tumors and found aissued Monday would remain in "statistically significant" increaseeffect while it weighed the merits in tumors among rodents fed No. 2of an industry appeal. 
as 3 percent of their diet, the The attorney representing two attorney said. Ifthe statistician had dye manufacturers, a trade associa­counted both cancerous and benign tion and a soft drink concentrate tumors, he said, there would have maker argued that the FDA could been no significant difference. 
not ban Red No. 2 without a finding ­-The Justice Department attorney 
that the public health is endanger­OPEN 11:00 a.m.-7 DAYS A WEEK
presenting the FDA's case said the dye industry had the burden of But the proposed ban would not proving Red No. 2 was safe, and 
ed. FEBRUARY 
apply to products already on the failed to meet it. 
SPECIAL

Editor-in-Chief 
WEDNESDAY-THURSDAY 
The Observer is accepting 
EVERY 5-7:30 p.m. 

applications for the post 
PIZZA BUFFET 
ALL YOU CARE TO EAT
of Editor-in-Chief. 
PIZZA (SEVERAL KINDS) 
The Observer Editorial Board and Night 
&SALADS

Editors will elect the next editor-in-chief on Tuesday Feb. 17 
1.92 PLUS TAX 
Interested students may submit resumes 
AGE 10 YEARS & UNDER 15~ 
to Terry Keeney at The Observer office, 
PER YEAR

top floor LaFortune Student Center 
·323 Ireland Rd. 291-7500
Deadline Fr.iday Feb. 13 at 5 p.m. 
2313 Edison Rd. •289-5555 ... 
by Tim 'l'.HeUey Staff Reporter 

Often noting the relative abun­dance of American life, six Notre Dame international students dis­cussed their home countries with fifty students of the Whitney Young Street Academy yesterday. 
The Academy, a school for dropouts from public schools, spon­sored the event as part of their Ethnic History Week. After each of the students gave a short talk explaining various cultural, geo­graphic, and demographic aspects of their native countries, the as­sembly was opened to questions from the audience. An informal discussion followed this. 
The international students came from six different countries, span­ning three continents. The panel comprised a wide variety of back­grounds and native life styles. 
The students all said they came to America and Notre Dame be­cause of the superior opportunities 
Walker pays dorm 
(continued from pagt; 1) ity. I then took down our lights and left in disgust." Ryan said Walker first came to the Alumni booth and tried to dismantle it before he was convinc­ed to go elsewhere. "Then Walker and his crew went over to Morris­sey. He tored down the big hand and stomped on it in the middle of the floor. After that, he threw the crap table." 
Doyle said he presented a bill to Walker for the damages and that Walker refused to pay. Spellman later offered compensation from Mardi Gras funds but Doyle de­clined, stating he didn't want to take the organization's funds for the misconduct of a few individu­als. 
"My friends and I left Stepan Center, but just as we were about to enter Morrissey, Walker drove up with Spellman and paid us out of his own pocket," Doyle reported, "but he would not apologize or admit his euilt." 
Spellman attributed Walker's conduct to the stress of working hard on Mardi Gras for three consecutive weeks. 
Walker was unavailable for 
comment. 

Spellman also said much of the 
damage to hall booths was done by 
other halls, singling out Grace Hall 
as the main culprit. 

Grace Hall booth chairman 
Schaefer P. O'Neill said his hall 
workers played a major role in 
cleaning up after Mardi Gras and 
may have participated in some 
destruction. He added, however, 
that all of the serious damage to 
booths was done Monday afternoon 
by intruders into Stepan Center. 
Grunbaum lecture third in series 
01'. Adolph Grunbau: 1, philoso­
phy professor at the University of 
Pittsburgh and a specialist in the 
philosophy of science, will present 
the third series of Perspective 
Lectures at the University of Notre 
Dame February 16-20. Sponsored 
by the Department of Philosophy, 
the lectures are open to the public. 
"Is Falsifiability the Touchstone 
of Scientific Rationality?" will be 
Grunbaum's theme for the three 
talks. The first at 8 p.m. Monday, 
Feb. 16, in the Galvin Life Science 
Center Auditorium is entitled "Is 
Psychoanalysis Proof Against Dis­
proof?" 

"Can a Theory Answer More 
Questions than One of its Rivals?" 
is the topic of the second talk at 8 
p.m. Wednesday, Feb. 18 in the Galvin Auditorium, and "Is the Method of Conjecture and Refuta­tions the 1 Method of Science?" will be discused at 3:30p.m. Friday Feb. 20 in the Memorial Library Auditorium. ,.... , -...... . 




--.._' ~ Wednesday, February 11, 1976 the observer 1 1 
amill in position for gold medal 


INNSBRUCK (AP) • Dorothy established herself as the medal favorite in women's skating, young Dan Immerf­a bronze speed skating for his cheering, flag-waving the U.S. hockey team Finland Tuesday as the 
Americans continued to surprises at the Winter Games. 

hockey team became the for the bronze medal with a 
upset over Finland in a game which had the Austrian crowd roaring "USA USA." The Ameri­cans fought off a frantic finish by Finland, and got an assist from a Russian referee who disallowed a Finnish goal that would have tied the game at 5-S with two minutes left. 
And 18-year-old Philip Mahre of White Pass, Wash., turned in a surprising fifth-place finish in the men's giant slalom ski race. 
The day's other major surprise was supplied by two Swiss brickl­ayers, Heini Hemmi and Ernst Good, who won the gold and silver medals in the men's giant slalom. Their victories sent Italian ace Gustavo Thoeni storming off the slope, pushing his wife aside and eluding newsmen. He had held a firm lead after Monday's first round. 
Meanwhile, to no one's surprise, the Russians and East Germans dominated the rest of the day's medal victories. Soviet Raisa Smet­anina won the tO-kilometer wo­men's cross-country ski race and 
Complex convention in St. Louis 
(continued from page 12) "From an administrative standpoint," says Colonel Stephens, "it would be extremely hard to administer. The NCAA would have to have a larger staff to handle it and it would be hard to enforce properly." Joyce's and Stephens' argument stresses that it would be nearly impossible to achieve equity in determining need for every student. They point out the ambiguity of annual incomes and tax returns. "A family income of $10,000 in a small Texas town is not the same as a $10,000 family income in Chicago," states Joyce. He also sees it as a great temptation for both coaches and families to skirt the regulation. "The families would hate to go through it," he asserts. "It would be hard for them and possibly embarrassing. The coach might be tempted to say 'forget it, I'll take care of it,' and I have always fought for honesty and integrity in our sports programs." The split caused by the "need' controversy points toward an impending reorganization of the present NCAA structure, primarily in football divisions. The power football schools want autonomy, to be free to make their own regulations independent of smaller schools with different concerns and problems. "Schools with major football programs should have the opportunity to discuss problems and debate them, then establish their own rules within the NCAA organization," says Joyce. "It would give schools with the same philosophy and same kind of program 
Russian Evgeni Kulikov won the men's 500-meter speed skating event while fighting the flu and a high fever. 
Miss Hamill gets the jitters and' admits a fear of falling. She fell in the short program phase of the World Championships a year ago and Miss de Leeuw, who lives in Los Angeles but skates under the Dutch flag because of dual citizen­ship, won. 
If she doesn't make mistakes, Miss Hamill figures to top Miss de Leeuw in the important freestyle skating. The short program, which counts 20 percent, is Wednesday. The compulsories counted SO per­cent. 
Immerfall, 20, of Madison, Wis., 
the chance to make their own regulations and not be outvoted by schools whose interests are totally different." 
Joyce is possibly looking ahead to future years when proposals such as the need factor may be enacted. This year it was deadlocked at a 119-119 vote before a speech by Joyce himself swayed some representatives and resulted in a 120-112 defeat on a subsequent vote. But if the present economic crisis continues in intercollegiate sports, some type of economy measures are sure to be passed, and the major college powers want to be free of them. 
The reorganization itself intensifies the complexity. 
There would be debate over which schools should be included in the top division and which should be relegated to lower divisions. And what, if any, authority the NCAA would have over this division is still unclear. 
But the future of intercollegiate sports seems to have the problem of straddling a chasm. The NCAA must attempt to save the small, Jess wealthy programs on one side while appeasing the financially independent programs on the other. The diverse interests and needs raise complexities that make this task even harder. 
So though the NCAA is clearly moving, as it must, the how's and the why's and the when's remain vague. And it is their unfortunate, difficult task to kick up the dust some more until it can finally settle into place for good. 
won the bronze medal in men's 500-meter speed skating while his widowed mother, who works two jobs to support his skating and music training, cheered and waved an American flag. She rushed onto the ice in her long, black fur coat and embraced him when the raee ended. 
Immerfall's father died of multi­ple sclerosis when Ian was nine. Since then, Irene Immerfall and her son have concentrated on his two loves. 
"Winning this medal makes it all worthwhile. We both have put so much into it," said Mrs. Immerfall. 
"Ever since I was a little kid. I wanted to make the Olympic team," said Ian, who kicked his heel and almost fell early· in the raoe. 
"Winning a medal is the higl point of my life," he said. "Thi~ one's for Mom." 
I MICHIANA TAX 
SERVICE 
gets you more $$! We 
do out of state returns 
84-6063 Or 289-519 

************************************ 
: NOTRE DAME WED. FEB. 18th !
* Athletic and thru it 
: eo~:=on SUN. FEB. 22nd i 
: 
Jt­
:
*
* 
* :
* 
Jt­
* 
Jt­
*
* 
Jt­
* 
*
* 
lt­lt­
~ 
..­
lt­
*
* 
*
*
*
*
*
* 
*
*
* 
: 
+ WED. NIGHT SHOW ~ 
ABicenttMill Ctltlll'1tion S,.cill it 
(All TICKETS HALF PRICE) ~ 
..
PRICES: it 13.00 14.50 15.50 8 PERFORMANCES : 
All Slits l ...rwll tWED. II'.M. it 'lz Aice Tidcets for (All ticktta hiH ll'ict) itjND-SMC Students on THill$. 1:00 I'.M. -it 1llese f'et1onnllnces: FRI. 1:00 I'.11. it WED. 8:00p.m SAT. 12:00 • 4:00 ·1:00 it THURS. 8:00p.m 51111. 2:00 1INII:GO 1'.11. ~ 
SAT. 12:00 noon :; SUN. 6:00p.m ~ SHOWS ONLY :; Tlcket1 on 1ale: it NOTRE DAME A.C.C. it BOX OFFICE it MON.-SAT. 9 to 5 it ROBERTSON'S ! 
Soutll a..,d ond Concord Moll '?' 
ST. JOE BANK it 
ond-... 
ELKHART TRUTH it 
...
• 
... 
...
• 
..•
• 
.. 
**************: 


WANTED 

Desperately need 1-4 G.A. Western Midligan tickets. Good IW1ney. Call Dan 3526. 
Desperately need 1 or 2 GA Marquette tickets. Call Bob 1214. 
Need ride to Penn State weekend of Feb. 
13. Call Jan 6859 
Desperately need 5 Marquette tix. Call Sleen 6798 
Ride Needed to Colurrbus Ohio Feb. 13, 283-6954 
Need 6 GA West Virginia tickets. Call tom 3527. 
salesmen, part-lime irrrrediately. Intangible sales, mnmissions. Call AIMS 277-2922. 
Need many WMU nxl Call 233-9841 after 11 p.m. 
Ride needed to Kalamazoo Feb. 13. Call MMy 5384 
Wl!lll to sell my place in Bahamas trip. Asking $45.00. Mike 3363. 
Desperatelyneed 1 G.A.IicketforW. Va. Call Mary 5480 
Desperidely need Marquette fix, call Dorothy, 277-1838 
APPLICANTS OVER 21 for part-lime derklng etc. Applu 11 :00-6:00 p.m. 
PARTY SHOPPES OF SOUTH BEND office 913 Clover St. 
Must sell space on senior trip to EW!amas. Discoont. Jim 1703. 
NEED WORKERS FOR MOCK CON+ 
VENTION. To print poster.; · replicas of old political buttons · for Stepa-~ Center walls. Need \Mll1(ers from now until fVvrd1 1. If ',()U Cl!l1 help, call Nancy, 
1365 Wanted: 1 NDor SMC Art student to do cartooning, <Duple hours per week, $$, call Rick at 233-1115 betv.leen 4pm-7pm. 
Wanted: TYoO G.A. Marquette tix. Call 6804 
Need 4 G. A. West Virginia tickets. Call Maggie 5408. 
Want to buy . used refriger.ltor in good condition. Call 233-8579 after 5 pm 
Wanted tickets for Marquette game or any other saturday game. Call Tom 1795. 
Need ride to Milwaukee area Feb. 13. Call Debbie 4-4844. 
Need 11M:> West Virginia tickets. Mary 1285 
Needed 2 non-student fix for Villanova game. Chuck 1211 
Ride needed to Pittsburgh for Feb. 14th weekend. Call Nick. 8370. 
Need ride to Rilla this weekend Will share driving & expenses. Call 6825 after 12. 
Management Trainee to $14,000 Ready for a new career? WE are interviewing for a management training program that Will allow ',()U to earn $25,000 or rrore in 5 yea-s IMllle 
representing our top team of financial specialists in Equities,fv'oortgages and 
Tax Shellers. Send ',()Ur resume to: Charles M. Newbanks 120 w. Lasalle suite 906 South Bend, IN 46601 
FOR RENT sunmer rental . Super rates for houses or rooms. Real dose to Cilll1lUS and furnished. Call 233-2613 
Rve and six bedroom houses for rent · for next school year. Excellent CXllldition, dose to Cill1'1lUS· CoO'l>letely furnished. Call 233-2613 
Classified Ads 
FOR SALE 

74 Javelin AMX 21,000 miles All options Call Da-M1 272-3236 
For sale: Univox Sectrical guitar. Nice Sound and good action. Call Bob at 1487 
NIKKORMAT FT2 SOMM Fl.4 $275; Teac 360-A Cassette Deck with Dolby $170 :234-6535 
LOST AND FOUND 
LOST: PLEASE Help me find: 1 Man's silver bracelet With inlaid turquoise of great senfint!ntal value. Lost at North Quad Pllrly. Reward. Call Sam 3304 
Lost: Blue 3-ring binder notebook Call 288-2618. 
Lost: ID Card, 731 226 637. Call 1340. 
Found: Silver necklace in LeMans lobby. Call Camille, 4773. 
Found: rroney on cai'1'1JUS Call Tom 288-3819 or 277-1076 
NOTICES 

TERM PAPER +THESIS +LETTER A UTTL.E OR A LOT +WE CAN HELP 
A <DO'l>lete typing service 
207 Dixie Way North 
South Bend, Indiana 
277-2922 
Greyhound Bus to Chicago. L..eaves Circle every Friday at 5:45. Call Tom at 8338 for seat Reservation. 
R>sition open . Student lklion. rrovie organizer. Apply to secretary. 2nd floor 
LaFortune. 
Monissey Loan $20-150. 1 ctay wait. 1 per cent Int. LaFortune,M-AI :15-12:15 
IBM Seledric II typing. Manusaipts, Dissertation. Elcperienced. 289-5193 
Need a tune up? You buy the pcrts. I Will install plugs, points, CXllldenser and set timing tor $8. Cali Bob 8610. 
Accurate, fast typing. Ntrss. Q:lnoho 232-0746 
·PERSONALS 
August 5th, 1972. I'll remerrber ',()U all my life. Special thanx to Alexander Bell. Without ',(lur help the Window washer may have finished the job unintemJpted. 
Dick T. Dunmie 
Please rome home. 
Love, [))t, Mac, Kat, Sam. 
We're talking pizzas! We've only just begun!! The Turlleys. 
Did ',(lu see that picture in the [))Qbook? If ',()U didn't get a [))Qbook and YoOUid like one, rome to Student lkllon. MWF 1-3 p.m. $2. 
To the Count, Thanks for not using phony lines Casey 
KLEPTO -MOUNTFORD, Please thank Bcmabys for their kind donation to our seasoning mllection. In Gratitude, J. K. 
Happy Birthday Susie Solnoky! 
Mx:k Stock Market . Feb. 2 thru Feb. 27. Old business Bldg., 10 al'n.-3 pm. Na1. thru. Fri. Win $100, $50, $25. Sponsored by N.D. Finance Club. 
Got a question about ai<Xlhol? Call Peggy Bcmum 8809 . AI<Xlhol Counselor, lkliversity Infirmary. 
Rowering Plants for Valentine's Dlily. Delivered to their doorstep on Ci11111US. South Dining Hall MWF 5-6:15 North Dining Hall TT 5-6:15 
.. 

. -·-.. ! 
T11ere once was a laddie narred Tom Who muld not find a date for the Prom. He seardled the whole town, But they all turned him down, So he ended up taking his Mom! A-om Disaster 
BOXQ Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
Dear Bunny Rabbit! I Thinking of ',()U I lhe REd Bllron 
"Lllr.K uws Lllr.K Knows'' 
----------All, 
See ',(lU at the prayer meeting In Rathskeller at 7:30 tonight. 
Darling John, If the per.;onal doesn't please, ',(lU get straight lime juice at the Tequllla party. Marquerite 
Big Deb & Big Ter, It has taken me long enough, but th"'ks for everylh ing I Love, Oinks! 
Freak out tonight at the Opium Uen. Dress appropriatly, please. The reporter turned freak. 

.... 
Deadline for Observer Valentines is 
5 p.m. Today 



C.....-­
12 the observer Wednesday, February 11, 1976 
Although he's playing against two of his high school teammates Duck Williams maintains it's just another game. "It's an important game because we have to win but 
Larry Herron, a junior, is a year otherwise it's nothing special. It's older than his brother. He stands not like UCLA or Maryland." But 6-8 and plays a power forward Duck may care more than he lets position. Larry's status for to­on. His career high up until his night's game is questionable due to 24-point outburst against Davidson 
Don (Duck) Williams will face his high school teamates tonight against Villanova. (Photo bya sprained hand. Keith is 6-6 and last Saturday was the 20 point!.· he 
Chris Smith) 

plays a outside forward-guard. scored in Notre Dame's 125-90 win through a lot together. They team­Catholic Tournament at Cumberla­But now they are on oppositeThey battled for the Villanova over the Wildcats last year at the ed with Larry to lead Mackin to an nd, Maryland, including a big win sides, Duck for Notre Dame and the scoring leadership a year ago with Palestra. 
outstanding season in 1973 only to over Kenny Carr, Hawkeye Whitn­Herrons for Villanova. Tonight willfreshman Keith nosing out his "Keith may be a little more lose twice to Adrian Dantley and ey and DeMatha. Duck sums it all determine if a bird in Notre Dame's older brother 17.9 to 17.8. They intense and a little quicker than DeMatha, once on a buzzer basket. up when he says, "Keith's like a hand is worth more than tWo inteam with junior center John Olive Larry,'' says Duck in comparing his Then with Adrian Dantley and brother to me." Villanova's bush. 
(12.1) to form a young front line high school teammates, "but I do 
DeMatha, once on a buzzer basket. 
which Irish 'coach Digger Phelps know this for sure, they can both 
Then with Adrian and Larry off in 
feels has the potential to be shoot the ball." 
college, Duck and Keith sparked
outstanding. 

Duck and Keith have been 
Mackin to a win in the National 
*Observer
What's going on in the NCAA? A convention of complexities 
by BID Brink 
Sports
adopted last summer were reviewed. This took the 
Sports Editor 
first day and a half, leaving two and a half days more 
to achieve something positive in the direction of 
The dust from the latest NCAA convention has 
preserving the economic balance of many institutions. 
cleared and settled, but the controversy and debate go 
Indeed, this was so crucial that nearly 100 college 
on. What seems clear is that the NCAA is inevitably 
presidents attended the conference, an unprecedent­
headed into new territory, though how and when it 
ed number. Fearing that the NCAA and athletic 
ND hockey team defeats 
will arrive there is still very much up in the air. 
officials did not realize the seriousness of the problem 
If the convention, which was held in St. Louis this 
and would not take efficient measures to correct it, the 
Bowling Green in overtime
past January, had one overall characteristic, it 
presidents were determined to make their feelings
probably could be summed up in the term 'complex­
clear. Several presidents made subtle threats, hinting 
by Ernie Torrlero victim of a goal that was as much aity'. This is not surprising considering that nearly 
that if the NCAA and athletic directors didn't do 
fluke as the Falcon tally. 

1,500 people gathered to debate and vote on 
anything to cut costs, they would. One college 
BOWLING GREEN --Brian Irish defenseman Pat Novitzkiapproximately 300 proposals in just four days. Twelve president stated that if the athletic officials "fail to Walsh's twelfth goal of the season, grabbed a pass just over the center years ago there were just twenty-two proposals, put their house in order,'' that the presidents will step two minutes and forty-eight sec­line· and dumped the puck into the mostly perfunctory ones, which all passed. Just the in and do it for them. onds into the overtime, powered offensive zone. The elusive rubber idea of such a large, diverse group of people The great concern for curbing the economic crisis Notre Dame to a dramatic S-4 seemed to have eyes for the goal asconsidering such a vast amount of material seemed to created a debate which basically split the convention victory over non-conference rival the disc landed on its side and hamper the convention from the start. 
into factions representing different philosophies of Bowling Green. The tally, Walsh's curved in past the stunned Luit. 
Colonel John Stephens, Assistant Athletic Director collegiate athletics. The general tendency was for second of the night, ended a The Falcons scurried out to a at Notre Dame, describes the meeting as "a kind of contest which featured exciting two-goal aQvantage with less than
smaller non-powers to favor measures which would 
Tower of Babel. There was a lot of trouble trying to comebacks and aggressive play. seven minutes gone in a second
tone down all athletic spending. This ranged from 
administer' the conference," he explains. "People Walsh took an Alex Pirus feed frame. Forward Rich Nagai tipped 
small cost-cutting proposals to the share-the-wealth 
were wondering just what we had to do to get this just inside the blue line and in a Mike Newton drive at the
plan submitted by Dr. Stephen Horne, president of 
thing going." slammed the puck'past a readied AI goalmollth at the 3:48 mark. Less
Long Beach State College. The major powers balked 
Fr. Edmund Joyce, Executive Vice-President in Sarachman. Sarachman never than three minutes later Jack Laine 
at being subjected to regulations made by and for 
touched the puck and the Irish had as
charge of Athletics for Notre Dame, agrees. caught the Irish napping, the
schools with different interests than their own. 
win number 13 sealed.
"The problems are so complex," he asserts, "and speedy junior wheeled around the
This debate came to an ideological head in the 
it's extremely difficult to really debate fully the "I yelled over at Pirus," Walsh back 'of the Irish goal and back­
consideration of proposal #100, the highly-publicized 
explained, "and he looked over to handed the puck between Moher'simportant problems. You have so many people with 
"need factor." This proposal suggests that tuition 
me and caught me just right. I hit ;legs.
so many different interests that nothing gets done. 
and mandatory fees be granted outright to a 
the shot full stride and it just went Tim Byers woke the Irish up byThere was some frustration at not resolving some of 
student-athlete, but that room and board be granted in." 
stopping a clearing pass, waltzingthe most critical issues." 
on the basis of financial need. The argument was that 
Overall, the Irish are now 14-12-2 in on Luit. and ramming the puckThis administrative frustration typifies the general this measure would (1) cut down grant-in-aid on the year. Bowling Green, a through him for his fourth goal offrustration in collegiate athletics as it gropes for some expenses, the most costly athletic expense, and (2) team ranked third in the nation in the year with exactly eleven min­way to handle the economic crisis \which grips hig~er put an end to the feeling that an athlete was a special one hockey poll, now falls to 16-5-1. utes showing on. the clock. 
education institutions. As the burden -of supportmg person given special consideration apart from other "We really played excellent Thirty-four seconds later, de­full-scale athletic programs threatened their financial 
students. hockey," Notre Dame coach Lefty fenseman Donnie Jackson powered stability, many schools clamored for the need for new Smith concurred. "This was a real
The division between the philosophies of the power down the left side and let go a blast 
legislation which would cut costs. big win and it really gives us a
schools and the rest of the colleges became clearly which caught Luit on the far side 
The NCAA's first attempt to enact such legislation boost going into Michigan Tech and propelled· Jackson· into the
represented during this debate. The entire Ivy league 
was at a special convention called last August in this weekend." boards. Quickly the game was
voted for the need factor, as did the entire 
Chicago. The meeting was a reaction by many schools Very early in the game it looked knotted at three-all.
Mid-American Conference. Northwestern of the Big 
to the sudden, omin\lus realization athletic expenses as if luck was not on the side of the The Irish made it three goals
Ten voted for it. But the entire Big Eight Conference 
could not continue at their present rate, and that Irish, as Bowling Green tallied a within a span of 1:21 as Walsh
voted against it, as did the Western Athletic 
alterations must be made to save the athletic goal before the teams had barely fielded a Zuit rebound and lifted
Conference, most of the SEC, Big Ten and major 
worked up a sweat.
programs themselves. Thus, much of the regulations the puck over the sprawled goa~ie.
independents. 
Sophomore Dave Easton picked After two, the Irish held a slim 4-3they passed proved to be rather hastily-conceived, not 
In essense, the big-time football schools defended 
up the puck in back of the Irish net lead.
particularly sound, and certainly very unpopular. 
their heavy recruiting policies, and thus the need for 
and spotted a Falcon defenseman Sarachman replaced Luit in the"The mood of the August convention," says 
the traditional full scholarship. They contend that 
out on the point. But when the pass nets when the teams skated out for Colonel Stephens, "was to go all-out to save money. 
athletes in football and basketball more than pay for 
came out, Irish goalie Len Moher the final frame. For the first fewAnd it's conceivable that some of what was passed their grant-in-aid by helping produce revenue which tipped the puck with the back of his 
-
minutes Sarachman and Moherwas done a little hastily and possibly was ill-conceiv­. keeps costs down for the individual student. stick and the rubber flew behind a exeh~nged brilliant saves as nei­
ed." 

"I can't giving a grant-in-aid to an athlete unless very surprised Moher. The Falcons ther team could muster·a tally.
It was clear that the NCAA must act, but they had they pay for themselves," says Joyce. "In the case of had a quick 1-0 advantage at the Then with 8:44 gone and eachlearned that the problems are so intricate and footbaiHmd basketball, they produce a lot of money. 32-second mark. team skating a man shy, freshmancomplex that a good deal more thought was necessary We have to recruit blue-chip athletes to do this, and · "I was cutting across in front of Mark· Wells took a pass from the than they had put into the Chicago meeting. So their we're going after them, they're not coming to us. I tl!e net," Moher explained, "and defense and lined a shot which 
first task at the recent meeting was to undo what they the puck was deflected in. 
don't think it's at all realistic then to go on a need ·caught Moher's right pad before 
had done before. The travel squad limits and home basis." Just over a minute later the gods bounding into the net. The teams 
dress squad limits were rescinded, recruiting dates evened things out, as Bowling remained deadlocked at four into
(continued on page 11)
were made more realistic and many of the proposals Green goalie Mike Luit was the the overtime period. 




