


Quakenbush reveals plans 
It's almost An Tostal time! 
A free concert outdoors will provide music through
by Joe Staub Staff Reporter the evening. There will be a most unusual object contest. a Find-your-mate contest, and a Funcathalon, in which a variety of amazing feats demand the best of
i:loh Quakenbush. chairman of the 1976 An Tostal contestants. A dunking booth will feature campus
Executive Committee, announced preliminary plans for celebrities, and a phone booth stuffing contest roundsthis year's spring festival. The event will run from out the cvenin,g.
Thursday April 22 through Saturday April 24. the first week after students return front Easter break. The highlight of Thursday will be the Mr. Campus An Tostal starts in the dining halls with an Irish lunch contest. The various contestants, representing their 
on "Gentle Thursday." consisting of green food. halls, will be judged by their performance in the Balloons will be distributed and ladies will be given the eveningwcar, swimwear and talent competitions. opportunity to buy tlowers for the persons of their 
Frivolous Friday choice. 
Frivolous Friday will feature a giant sackrace, an egg
There will he a trivia contest, the Trivia Bowl. and a 
toss. a jcllo toss. a water balloon duel, a car-stuffingjacks-vs.-girl~ basketball competition. The semifinal 
contest. a wet clothes race, and a keg toss. · rouud of the Bookstore Basketball Tournament then One of the festival highlights is Friday's impersona­determiues which four teams will tight it out for the tion contest, in which contestants can imitate anythingchampionship. 
or anybody, living or dead, ranging from egg beaters to Gentle ThursdaJ sports announcers to old ladies from Little Silver. Montana. For informatiou of any kind about the 
On Thursday night An Tostallaws go into effect. For impersonation contest, call Mary Mulvihill at 8148, or a yuarter, An Tostal jailers will throw the person of .Juli Pcllcticri at 4217. your choice into jail. The prisoner can either bribe his Friday night the Amateur Hour will showcase talent way out for SO el'nts or submit to being a target in the of any sort. Prospective contestants can call Mary pie-throwing contest. (continued on page {) 
WHAT AN AIM! Mary Seigel demonstrates the new An Tostal Assassination service, better known as "Pie in the Eye, Inc.," on chairman Bob Quakenbush. For a small fee, you loo may have a pie delivered to the face of your favorite victim on Sunny Saturday. fPhoto by Chris Smith) 
Teamsters may strike 
ARLINGTON HEIGHTS. II. (AP) Also at issue arc additional -Early results of weekend voting mileage pay for long-haul drivers by 400,000 Teamsters indicated and cost-of-living adjustments. overwhelming authorization for a In Detroit, where members of strike that could bring the nation's Local 299's cartage division voted trucks to a halt, union officials said 898 to 24 and steel hauling divisionumversily of nofr e dame sf mary ·s college 
yesterday. members voted 160 to 18 to Vol. X, No. 108 Monday, March 29, 1976 
Bargaining in the trucking talks authorize a strike, truckers predict­was suspended late last week until ed almost unanimous rejectionIn memorial program tomorrow but both industry and nationally. 
union sources were hopeful of a Long-haul drivers of Local 337. settlement before midnight Wed­also in Detroit, spurned the offer qq nesday when the current National to I. while construction site Team­

Hesburgh praises black lawyers 
Master Freight Agreement ex­sters of Local 24 7 voted 38 to 5 pires. against the offer and for a strike. The pact covers drivers that Members of St. Louis Local 600
tion m America. Carpenter said. 
move nearly 60 percent of the followed suit. turning down the
"There has been change, much 
country's manufactured goods. offer by a margin of more than 9 to
change. but there is still a long way 
Rank-and-tile truckers meeting I, union ofticials said.
to go." 
at union halls across the country, Although the government Js
In an emotional speech, George expected turn
however. were to certain to seck a Taft-HartleyD. Arnold, Senior Labor Relations down what they consider a meager injunction for an 80-day cooling offSpecialist ot: the Bendix Corpora­industry offer of 85 cents more an period in event of a walk-out. sometion. South Bend division. echoed hour and an $11-a-week hike in Teamsters said wildcat actionsthe speeches. dreams and philos­fringe benefits over 39 months. 
were possihle.
ophies of the Rev. Martin Luther Industry and union negotiating King. Jr. Arnold was the keynote teams. headed by Teamsters Pres­Fitzsimmons. up for re-ch:ction at speaker of the program. ident Frank E..Fitzsimmons and the union's June convention. has 
Arnold made reference to Wash­Trucking Employers. Inc. president committed himself to a "no con­ington Irving's legendary charac­William G. Mcintyre, currently tract, no work·· posture but also is ter. Rip Van Winkle: "The most differ by 90 cents in hour salary, under pressure to arrange a set­
striking thing about Rip Van Wink­sources say. tlement to compensate for mem­le was not that he slept twenty The employers' package bers' money losses due to inllation. years. but that he slept through a 
amounts to a 20 percent increase in The average Teamsters member.
revolution." Arnold continued. 
wages and benefits over 39 months union sources say. lost SO cents an
"People tind themselves through 
but Teamsters. demanding $1.75 
hour in 1974-1975 because of an II
great periods of moral change. 
hike in wages and $17 more in cent an hour cost-of-living ceiling
People arc sleeping through a 
pension and health-welfare bene­in the 1973 contract. For that
revolution taking place today." To 
tits. want an increase of at least 30 reason. a cost-of-living rlause has
remain ''awake'' through the revo­
percent over three years. Wages been bargaining
lution, Arnold advised, "We must a critical point,
for truckers now vary from $7.18 to 
with Teamsters demanding no cap
continue to affirm the immorality of 
$7.33 an hour. 
on the allowance.
racial segregation. We must make clear that we are through with 
-~ ~~ ~: ·~ ~·t·· 
segregation now, henceforth, and
r~ 1i'-~-...''""· '"11,Jt. '1li1 Academic Council to meet
forevermore." Rev. M.trtin luther King, Sr., called for thought, sense and ability 
Arnold has participated in some 
to solve .America's race problem last night. (Photo by Chris Smith) 
thirty-five programs honoring the Committee would be appointed by
bJ John Pandolfl 
hJ Edward Rosini stood in the middle of two opposing late Dr. Martin Luther King. Jr. the Executive Committee in such a
Staff Reporter
Staff Reporter forces: complacency and bitter· He has shared the speakers plat­manner as to ensure substantial ness. King, Link said, took the form with such notables as Rev. continuity from year to year in its
The Academic Council will meet 
Fr. Theodore Hcsburgh called path of an extremist. Link rciterat· Jessie Jackson. President of Opera­membership.
this afternoon at 3:00 p.m. for the late IJr. Martin Luther King "a cd the words of King: "The tion P. U.S. H .. Rev. Theodore Hes­The second proposal concerning
consideration of two issues. 
great martyr for human rights" in a yucstion is not whether we will be burgh, C.S.C., and most recently the termination of the Department
The tirst is a proposal from the 
f11,•morial program in honor of King extremists. but what kind of ex· Mr. Arthur A. Fletcher, Deputy of Graduate Studies in Education
Executive Committee of the Coun­Sunday evening in Sacred Heart trcmist we will be." Assistant to President Ford for cil to establish a Standing Commit­was placed before the Graduate 
Church. Link's message for black law urban affairs. Council which has given the meas­
tee of the Academic Council on the The presentation was organized students was to "be creative Rev. Martin Luther King, Sr., ure a vote of unanimous approval.
Academic Manual. The second 
by the Midwest Regional Black extremists with the law. work closed the presentation with a An associated proposal to transfer
item to be discussed will be a American Law Student Association harder, prepare more, and win the moving speech reflecting upon his the program and faculty of counsel­
proposal to discontinue the De­
(H.A.L.S.A.l with members from case; and when an administrative trying times during his life. He ing psychology to the Department
partment of Graduate Studies in thirty-tivl' law schools in the Mid­body will not budge. work and pray spoke of his wife's and son's of Psychology was referred to the
Education. 
western area. until it budges. When one is a assassinations, and quickly retort­to the proposal College Council and approved by a
According to Hesburgh stated that the black creative extremist." Link proclaim· ed, "I refuse to stoop low enough unanimous vote.
establish a Standing Committee of 
lawyers of America arc going to be ed. will hate anybody...anybody who Provost James T.
"that dream, that vision, to the Council this committee should University 
"the champions of things ahead." become a reality." hates is blocking traffic ...don't you Burtchaell, in his own letter to the
be charged with two things:He added that the people of the Charles E. Carpenter, third year hate anybody. I am every man's Academic Council said that
I) to receive and consider all 
United States should spend their law student at Notre Dame and brother." The elder King said that "should the Academic Council
proposals for changes in the Man­
lives as best they can so that they B.A.L.S.A. Regional Director, as­a misplaced emphasis has pervad­discontinue the Department of
ual and transmit such proposals, may live up to the dignity that serted that the strength of anything ed America's values and ideolo­together with the Committee's Graduate Studies in Education, all Martin Luther King died for. lies in the youth of America. gies. "America has taken the instruction would be terminated at
recommendations, to the Academic 
Hesburgh cited the three great civil Carpenter explained, "We are here wrong road in life,'' King asserted. the end of the present academic
Council. rights leaders of modern times: to revive the philosophy of Martin "You've got to use some thought, year." Burtchaell further noted,
2) to recommend to the Academic 
Mahatma Ghandi. Pope John Luther King, Jr." Carpenter some sense, some ability to solve "Supervision and examination of
Council such changes in the Man­
XXIII. and the Reverend Martin described King as "a spokesman this race problem." King clectri­ual as the Committee deems neces­dissertation work would be contin­Luther King, Jr. for the demands that arc given to fted his audience, who in return ued a reasonable time to allow the
sary so as to be consistent with David T. Link, Dean of the Notre us by our constitution." shook the church with thundering completion of degrees in prog­
legislation passed by the Council. 
Dame Law School, noted that King In referring to civil rights legisla-applause. ress."
The proposal also states that the 
Monday, March 29, 1976
the observer 

,.---News Briefs--­
NEW YORK --More than 4,000 transit workers voted without dissent yesterday to authorize a strike against New York City's subway and bus lines. 
The vote came at a Manhattan Center rally, setting the stage for a possible walkout against the Transit Authority at 12:01 a.m. Thursday. 
--On Campus Toda!J'_. 
10 am· 5 pm 
12:15 pm 
3 pm 3:30pm 
4:30pm 
7 & 10 pm 
7 pm 7:30pm 
7 30 pm 
7:30 & 9 30 pm 
8 pm 
8 pm 
11 pm 
12:15 am --book sale, n.d. library assocation, proceeds go to rare book room, all books 50 cents, library concourse 
--mass, Iafortune ballroom 
--meeting, academic council, rm 100-104 cce 
--lecture, cardinal o'hara lecture series, "business ethics and government regulation" by leonard m. savoie, vp and controller, clark equipment company, library auditorium 
--colloquim, "integral representations in several complex variables" by prof. andrew c. palm, univ. of connecticut, rm 226 math bldg. 
--film, "othello" with sir laurence olivier, engineer­ing auditorium 
--meeting, chess club, rm 227 math bldg. 
--lecture, cardinal o'hara lecture series, "inflation accounting" by leonard savoie, rm 121 hayes-healy center 
--meeting, north and south quad all-star football teams. Iafortune lobby 
--films, tv classics, 75 cents admission, free popcorn and coke, Iafortune ballroom 
--concert, chamber music, sponsored by music department, little theater, moreau hall, smc 
--lecture, "the catholic character of the university" by rev. theodore m. hesburgh, c.s.c., library auditorium 
--radio, "the album hour," kinks--"preservation act I and II," wsnd 640 am 
--radio, "nocturne night flight," the best in progressive rock, jazz and blues, wsnd 88.9 fm 
• t • 




ND Laetare Medal winner named 

Paul Horgan, novelist and Pulit­zer Prize-winning historian known for his imaginative recreations of the American Southwest, has been awarded the University of Notre Dame's Laetare Medal for 1976, it was announced Saturday. 
"In more than four decades of writing, Mr. Horgan has achieved distinction by his ability to con­vey in both historical narrative and in fiction compelling evocations of people, place and belief," com­mented Notre Dame's president, Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., in announcing the award, which annually goes to an out­standing American Catholic. "In our Bicentennial year, it is fitting to honor a man who reminds us anew that the history of our country is essentially a story of human aspir­ation." 
Horgan, who is emeritus profes­sor of English and writer-in­residence at Wesleyan University, Middletown, Conn., was born in Buffalo, N.Y., in 1903 and moved to New Mexico when he was 12 because his father was suffering from tuberculosis. He was to live in New Mexico for half a century, becoming absorbed in the region and its history. 
His first published novel. "The Faul of Angels," won the Harper Prize in 1933, and his fortieth work, "Lamy of Santa Fe," the widely praised biography of the first bishop of Santa Fe, was published last year by Farrar. Straus & Giroux. Among his better known novels are "No Quarter Given," "Far From Cibola." "A Distant Trumpet." "Things As They Are," "Whitewater," and a collection of previously published fiction, "Mountain Standard Time." Per­haps his most celebrated work is "Great River," the story of the Rio Grande in North American history and winner of the 1955 Pulitzer and Bancroft Prizes. 
The atmosphere of the High Plains and Rocky Mountains--with their rivers. mesas. deserts. moun­tains and stretching sky-­
permeates Horgan's writing. and
Leonard Say0 1e 0 g1yehe is co~side:ed as imp~rtant to the 
perception of the Amencan South-

f• I o'H I t 
west as any historical figure who
Ina are ec ure advanced its material progress. His 
Leonard M. Savoie, vice pres­ident and controller of Clark Equipment Company, Buchanan, Mich.. will present the final Card­inal O'Hara Memorial Lecture of the spring semester today at 3:30 
p.m. in the Library Auditorium. The topic of his talk is "Business Ethics and Government Regula­tion." 
Before joining the Clark firm in 1972. Savoie was executive vice president of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants and had been a partner in the firm of Price Waterhouse & Co. 
He is a graduate of the Univer­sity of Illinois and a member of the school's foundation and advisory board for the department of ac­countancy. He is also a member of the advisory board of the Paton 
%The Observer 
Night Editor Val Zurblis Ass't Night Editor John Calcutt 
Editorials: Martha Fanning Features: Jack D'Aurora Sports Fred Herbst, Chip Spina 
Copy Readers Tom Byrne Don Reimer Day Editor Mary Pat Tarpey 
Typists: Marianne Keefe, Hank Van Dyke, Karen Chiames Night Controller: Dave Fe0
2 

The Observer is published 1\f\onday through Friday and ~kly during the surrrrer session, except during the exams and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of the Univ. of Notre Dame and St. Mays College. Subso'iptions rmy be purdlased tor $18 ($10 per semester) fro'Tl The Observer. Box Q, Notre Dame, lndiil'la 46556. Second Class postage paid, Notre Dame, IN A6556. 
Accounting Center at the Univer­sity of Michigan and has served as SU announces a Dickinson Fellow on the faculty of Harvard Business School. 
White Sox trip

Active in business and civic affairs. he is a member of the The Student Union will run a bus American Institute of CPA's. trip on April ninth to the Chicago American Accounting Association, White Sox season opener against New York Society of CPA's, and is the Kansas City Royals. The cost the author of several articles on of the trip is $9.50. which includes business and accounting subjects. transportation and a ticket to the He is a trustee of the International game. Reservations can be made Center for Research in Accounting at the Student Union ticket office. at the University of Lancaster, England. 
~IJR~PE ·· 

The Cardinal O'Hara lecture series, open to the public without t;r~}/2 f!~tG~lY ­charge, honors a former president '1:. 60 day advance paymen1 reqwred 
at Notre Dame and the first dean of 1 
--~ ~?i lree 800-325·4867
the College of Business Adminis­
\::1 UnaTravel Charters
tration.

r .. A"ite~tiOn {!! .. ""~ ~Applications are now being~ naccl!I?ted for the salaried n UPOSltlon of: U ~ Business Manager of ~ ~the Observer for nextyear.~ 



~ Accounting majors only. ~ 
~ Send resume to: ~ ~~ T~':' ~o~gli~: P:?· !.lo~~~ 
unusual twin success in the genres of fiction and history is illustrated by the link between "Great River" and "Lamy of Santa Fe." The sketch of Archbishop Jean Baptiste Lamy (the central figure of Willa Cather's "Death Comes to the Archbishop") was originally writ­ten for the river study but with­drawn and fleshed out with 20 years of research to complete the full-length portrait published in 1975. A methodical worker, Horgan filled 5.000 note cards with mater­ial on Lamy's life. He also visited archives in Lamy's native France, in the Vatican Library and at Notre Dame, observing, "Sometimes you travel 500 miles for a sentence." 
Horgan has been chairman of the board of the Santa Fe Opera, a member of the National Institute of Arts and Letters, a member of the National Council on the Human­ities. and a member of the editorial board of the Book-of-the-Month Club. He has received 13 honorary degrees, including one from Notre Dame in 1958. 
The Laetare Medal. the oldest and most prestigious award of its kind in the United States, was first P:~sented in 1883 to bring recog­nttton to Catholics who had achieved distinction in their chosen fields. Its name comes from the fact that its public announcement oc­curs on Laetare Sunday. the fourth Sunday of Lent-and traditionally an occasion of joy in the Church·s liturgical year. 




;··················i
i SBAUT'S i 
: WORLD'S GREATEST PIZZA t • OPEN fl:OO A.M. -7DAYS AWEEK • : BACK AGAIN! SHAKEY'S FAMOUS : 
: 1~A~~~~;9.! •7~~y~a~~ck : 
• Pizza • Ch1~ken • Spaghetti -Salad • 
• All You • : Care to $ 2 16 Plu> a~imn~~r •
i '"" 7 FT. CCL;~ '~·~·· ,... 
: 
: [ !mR ON SUNDAYS 
SHAKEY'S FAMOUS 

SUPER SUPPER 
!i to 7:30 Mon. • Tuc~--Wed. Pizza • thi~kca -Spachctti -Salad All You $216 Ages 10 
• 
Care to Plus a~d Under Eat! ' Tax 20c per year 
323 E. IRELAND RD. • 291-7500 


2313 EDISON RD. I •'' 289-5555 
Monday, March 29, 1976 
the observer 
3 



Court order reveals FBI break-ins of early 60's 
by Margaret Gentry Associated Press Writer 

WASHINGTON (AP) -The FBI burglarized offices of the Socialist Workers Party (SWP) and its youth affiliation as often as twice a month for a total of 92 post-midnight raids in the early 1960's according to newly disclosed FBI documents. 
Two other FBI burglaries were conducted at the homes of party members in Hamden, Conn.. and Los Angeles. 
The documents show that FBI agents photographed at least 8, 700 pages of party tiles, including financial records and personal let­ters, during the break-ins. It was not clear from the FBI files whether agents only photographed or whether they physically removed some papers from the offices. 
In compliance with a court order, the FBI provided the party with 354 pages of files describing burglaries at the New York office of the party and the Young Socialist Alliance (YSA) and the two house-breaking incidents. 
The files were provided in re­sponse to the party's specific request for "All documents relat­ing to any intelligence-gathering burglaries perpetrated by or with the knowledge of the FBI against 
At Youngstown Sta.te 
Youngstown, Ohio--The nine of special American patterns. and institution-; of higher learning in the third stage. which reaches to the Colonic~ in 1776 were already the present. has been one of tran~forming a European traditio~ enrichment and growth." 
of ~dwlar~hip into a pattern for education in America. The Revolutionary War institu­Thi~ wa~ the conclusion of Notre tion's goals combined "family ed­
Dame·, Dr. Astrik L. Gabriel. an ucation (piety). scientific discovery international expert in the history (doctrine) and democratic civil of mcdiL·val education. in a com­society (liberty)." according to mcnccmcnt address delivered Sat­Gabriel. It kept the faith with the urday at Youngstown State Univcr­humanistic classical tradition. even sit~'s sixth annual winter gradua­in the face of the utilitarian tion cxen.:i~cs in Beeghly Center. practicality a new country demands "The college of 1776," Prof. from education, he said, and in Gabriel noted, "fell into the second doing so presaged a willingness to 
stage of the American educational accept the heritage of other groups, system. The first, from 1630-1750, races, and societies in melding its ~as a period of transplanting own culture. 
knowledge from the Old World to the New World. The second, from While growing intellectually in­1750 to 181>0. saw the construction dependent of Europe. the new 

An Tostal's coming soon! 
(mntinut>d from page 1) 
Haughton, 1254. or Bryan Mulvoy. I 074. The climax of the evening will be Recess 176, whil·h is an advanced edition of last year's most popular new event. 
Sunn_l Saturday Sunnv Saturdav will be a day filled 11; the brim ~ith competition'. including a team tug-of-war over a mud pit, a road rally, a scavenger hunt, a pic-eating contest, a 2-man human 'Pidcr race. and a touch football game pitting men against women. The mud vollcvball tour­namL·nt final' will al'o b~ held. To enter. rail Steve Slater at 3172. rhc Llglic't Man on Campus L·llntc,t, at a pl·nn~· a vote. will providL· monL'Y for charity. Keen­an·, Mike Sa;danoff. winner two ll'ar' in a row. figuring to be a favorite. not having become any nwrL' hand~omc. 
Dome '77 editor applications due 
Applications for Editor-in-Chief of 
Dome '77 will be closed at 5 p.m. 
on Tuesday, March 30. Anyone 
interested must submit a resume 
and personal statement at the 
Dome office on the third floor of 
LaFortune. 
Applicants should possess lead­

ership qualities and a good know­
ledge of the Univcrsity, according 
to Dana Nahlcn. current editor of 
the yearbook. 
Each applicant will be interview­ed by the Dome editorial board. The ·decision will be announced later in the week. Previous experience on the Dome is not a requirement for consideration. 
For further information on the po~ition, call Nahlcn at 8067. 

Try out the food in the other dining hall 
A Co-exchange program will begin between the North and South dining halls on Tuesday, April JOt h. 
Tickets will be available from 

9:00 to 4:30 from the Student Union secretary. The program is in effect for lunches only, and the tickets may be obtained only one day in advance. 
The An Tostal Bcn-Hur Chariot Race, featuring chariots of original design and manufacture, will be held Saturday afternoon. Anyone wishing information about the race should call Mike Hcllinghausen at II HI. In addition. the An Tostal As~assin Service, better known as "Pic in the Eye, Inc.," will deliver a pic to the face of anyone siPgled out by the customer as a target. 
Al-;o on Saturday there will be an 1\n Tostal picnic 1)n the north quad for whirh the south dining hall will be closed. An Irish Wake closes the 1\n Tostal festival that night with an armot)' party. 
If anyone has questions about An Tostal. thcv should call Bob Quak­enbush at :1.165, Don Opal at 1176, or Mary Siegal at I 342. 
the SWP, the YSA or anyone have acknowledged. suspected to be a leader or member The FBI told the Senate Intelli­thereof.'' gence Committee last September 
that 238 burglaries were carried out Government agencies sued against 14 domestic organizations during a 26-year perioq ending in 
The party is suing the FBI and April 1968. other government agencies for $27 million in damages for allegedly New York offices burglarized unconstitutional harassment of legal political activities. The Polit­The files show that the SWP and ical Rights Defense Fund, which is YSA offices in New York were financing the lawsuit, made the documents available to the Assoc­

For lit contests 
burglarized 18 times in 1960, 16 times in 1961, 14 times in 1962, 16 times in 1963, I I times each in 1964 and 1965, and six times in 1966. 
!'he break-in at the Los Angeles home of James P. Cannon, then the Socialist party's. national chairman, took place April 30, 1960. The raid at the Connecticut home of party members Dan and Elisa Morgau occurred on March 10, 1960. 

iated Press. The material suggests that burg­


Writing due Apri/15
laries were conducted far more 
often than FBI officials previously 
Entries for the literary contests sponsored by the Notre Dame English department must be sub­
mitted in room 309 O'Shaughnessy by 5 p.m. on Thursday, April IS.
Gabriel speaks of colonial S C h00IS Prizes are aw::.rded for the best 
American schools. Gabriel remind­ed his audience, successfully raised money in Scotland. England and Germany for back-home scholar­ship. One university official. he observed, collected 23.000 pounds in the British Isles and elsewhere. "becoming. so to speak. the found­er of the present Mendicant Order of Presidents." 
Drawing on extensive research he did on American universities founded before 1800 for the Inter­national Commission for the His­tory of Universities, the Notre Dame medievalist said early Amer­ican universities struck a balance between being hidebound and be­ing duped by novelty. "Education for our forebearers," he stressed, "was not only incorporation of new information but also assimilation of everlasting values," and, he add­ed, important among the latter were religious liberty and a spirit of tolerance. These beliefs and convict.ions which go to make up a culture's traditions will be the lasting benefits of education, he stressed. 
A native of Hungary who studied in Budapest and in Paris, Gabriel came to the University of Notre Dame in 1948 and retired last year as director 'of its Medieval Insti­tute. His scholarship has been honored by France, Italy, Bavaria, and England. in addition to the United States. He now directs the Folsom Ambrosiana Collection at Notre Dame which contains micro­tilnb and photographs of the art treasures and scientific manu­scripts of Milan's Ambrosiana Li­brarv. 

As a college sophomore, you may be eligible for a tuition-paid Navy ROTC Scholarship through your junior and senior years. The Naval Reserve Officers Training Corps has a special 2-year college program for sophomores that helps you financially and helps you get started on a challenging and rewarding career. 
In addition to full tuition, the Navy ROTC Scholarship pays for all books and fees, and pays you $100 a month living allowance. 
To qualify, you must have completed one semester each of calculus and physics, or two semesters of calculus. Don't pass up this oppor­tunity to start shaping your future today! For more information, contact: 
Lt. Bob Nelson 
NROTC Unit 
283-6442 
writing done in the areas of poetry, playwriting, fiction and essay. 
Entries must be submitted in triplicate with a card bearing the author's name and address. En­tries will be judged anonymously by faculty members of the Univer­sity. 
The specific awards are as follows: 
The William Mitchell Award for Playwriting-Fifty dollars is award­ed to the undergraduate who submits the best original play, one act or longer. 
The Samuel Haze Poetry Award ­Fifty dollars is awarded to the undergraduate who submits the best poetry. Entries are limited to a maximum of 5 poems. 
The Richard T. Sullivan Award for Fiction Writing-Fifty dollars is awarded to the undergraduate who submits the best short story or chapter from a novel. Only 'one submission per student is allowed. 
The Academy of American Poets <\wards -One. hundred dollar-; is given to the Notre Dame student. graduate or undergraduate, who submits the best group of poems. Undergraduates may submit the same entry for both the Haze award and this award. 
The John T. Fredrick Prize -A new award given for the best essay in literary criticism. The prize i~ $30 and an inscribed plaque This prize was recently established by an anonymous donor in honor of the late John Fredrick, former faculty member and chairman of the Notre Dame English Depart­ment. All undergraduates are eligible for this award. 
Winners of the awards will be announced around May I. Please contact Prof. Sniegowski if any further information is required. 

COLLEGIATE JAZZ 
FESTIVAL 
STEPAN CENTER 
FRIDAY APRIL 2  7:30 P.M.  
SATURDAY  12:30 P.M.  
APRIL 3  7:00P.M.  

ALL SESSION PASS $6.00 

$3.00 

$2.00 $4.50 

f/1 (/t(; 6ean r:J caJ'Hnl ,..:JI :J.(fFJr/iJ~(/ 
:JtltreY. '1/;>;; l:i incit (.ftat:n, 12l. 




TIFFANY &CO. 
CHICAGO 

715 NORTH MICHIGAN AVENUE • ZIP: 60611 • TEL: (312) 944-7506 
Add two dpllars tor shippjng and handling plus sales tax where applicabla American Express • Bani<Amerlcard 
---------------------------------------------------------~ 




%T~d.QQ,~~cver 
Founded November 3. 1966 

The Observer 1s published by students of the University of Notre Dame and St Mary's College It does not necessarily reflect the poliCies of either 1nst1tut1on The news is reported as accurately and ob1ect1vely as posslbJe. Ed1tonals represent the opmion or a ma)onty the F:ditonal Boar n
01 

Commentanes are the views of 1nd1v1dual editors. Opinions, cartoons a d regul.11· columns express the views of their authors Column space IS avadablt' to all members of the communitY .. and letters art' encouraged to prqmotL· the free expression of varymg opmlons on campus. 
N<'" c; 28 l-8bb 1 

Tom Modgl1n Advertis1ng Manager Tom Wht->lan 
Monday, March 29, 1976 

Isabel and the Junta 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii~c Ia ude pomerIe a u 
It finall~· happened as expected. The Argentine military decided to take over the government and straighten out the muddle. Isabel M<trtincz de Peron. with nothing ldt but the name. was forced to gi1 e up the office she has filled 11 ith little grace and less talent since 1974. Last year, the military forced Isabel to take a vacation at a mountain resort outside Cordoba. On the edge of a nervous break­down. Isabel announced at that time that she would hang in the main square rather than abandon her post. The military appeared to be embarrassed by such boldness. Suddenlv. a visit to a Cordoban resort b~came more appealing to Isabel's political sensibilities than a tasteless (for her. anyway) display in the Plaza de Mayo. Eventually, Isabel found her .;.ay back to the Casa Rosada. This time. the military were better organized. Isabel is gone and will not hang. Nor will she return to office! 
This coup was carefully organ­ized. It was publicized in the mass media. It has already been called the best publicized coup in history. The point is. of course. that a coup is a combination of politics. intimi­dation and public spectacle. Ar­gentine coups have always been public. political. and dramatic--the onh· e\'l·nt to draw a bigger crowd tha·n soccer. The present coup was carred out via TV. Military maneuvers were staged for the ma'>s media rather than according to the canons of conventional militan· strategy. 
Argentina\, military command­er~ "ill now trv to redefine the 
jWhtkal  game . according  to  a  
prcmrangcd  script.  Just  about  
c1 L'rnmc cl'>e  has given it  a  try.  

inc·lt;ding the militar themselves frnm \'-lhh to 1(}73. Tl: 'Vall failed. The militarv wanted another try. No one i'> in·a position to stop them. 
l~ahcl ha'> not been conspicuous­lv ~liLTCSsful in the complicated t·a.,f-of political juggling and coali­tion-building among Peronists sin­ce her accc·ssion to the presidency nc<trh two years ago. All the same, tr~·ing tu keep political groups in some <.,ort of equilibrium had become the most entertaining act in South America. With savage ll>~·tut-c and institutionalized re­

~--------------------------~ r------~~~~----~~~~--, 
.... .... ~?vt./'~Pi,i_ 
~,_....,~·.•.Jfr."'!~T,.O..: ;~w._ 


c{~( 

'WELL, NKOMO, HOW GoES THE REVOLUTION? HA H.~ ...' 
pression in Chile. Paraguay, Uru­guay. Bolivia. and Brazil ( all bordering on Argentina). Isabel's antics provided a form of comic relief. mixed with grim political entertainment. With the comedy at an end, Argentina's new political leadership can now get down to the serious business of economics, torture and repression. 
A political cyclone has been forming in Argentina for the past 30 years. Although society is relatively tranquil (Portenos watch kidnappings and coups from side­walk cafes), politics have been stirring deeply and occasional!) reaching the proportions of a devastating storm sweeping every­thing in its path. 
The first time that the polity came close to disintegration was in 1(}55 when Peron was removed with much bloodshed and violence. He had suddenlv decided to throw in his lot with the revolution--after 9 years of resistance. Again. in 1969, strikes and violence in Cordoba threatened to spread throughout the country. Eventually, the military dictator Ongania ~as sac­criliced in appeasement. But in vain. 
It was the hope of many Argen­tines that the return of Juan Peron would bring some order to a political machine run amok. Peron's second coming in 1973 did not produce the expected political kin­gdom. His death in the summer of '74 placed his third wife babel into the executive office. The Peronist labor union (the CGTJ began to disintegrate into feuding. deadly factions. l~!,lation soared beyond 200 percent. Guerrilla groups increased their attacks on the militarv and select civilian targets. Once the army had deployed in TuC'uman and exterminated the guerrilla forces it was discovered that the guerrillas were really working out of the factories and not just out of the countryside. 
Turning from the violence and deceptive drama of those days. one was struck by the openness and fluidity of the political system. The collection of political actors was as complex as any in this part of the world. There were political parties galore. from the traditional to the exotic. During the 1960's, when 
EDITORIAL BOARD 
E:lusiness 283-7471 Ed;torials 283-1715

Thomas O'Neil  Editor-In-Chief  
Dan Sanche7Cregg Bangs  Managing Editor Exf'cutive Editor  
Val zurbls1Pat Hanifin  Executive Editor Editorial Editor  
Bob Madt'r  Executive News Editor  
Maurt'<'n Flynn  Campus Editor  
Marti Hogan  St  Mary's Editor  
[)on Reinwr  Copy Editor  
Tim O'Reiley  Features Editor  
~red Ht'rbst  Sports Editor  
Mary Egan  Contributing Editor  

parties were more or less legal, there were over 150 of them. The armed forces were split into mult­iple ideological factions; labor u­nions produced constantly shifting coalitions but were still probably more representative than Congress the many political factions and formations were operating in every imaginable arena. Minor ideologi­cal contlicts took on major political proportions. Conflicts were played out in churches. in congress. in the streets. in the countrvside, at mountain retreats. in p;esidential residences. in businesses and in markets; and finally but not least, in the militarv barracks. 
A major political problem is the large variety of subgames and minicontlicts played out simultane­ously in all arenas without anv political consensus or fundamental rules of the game. The armed forces have sought to restrict the wide open political arena. They have arrested the clergy. banished Peron and outlawed his followers. controlled and cancelled and fixed elections. banned and condemned parties. jailed politicians, tortured and murdered guerrillas and recal­citrants of all stripes. At times they have monopolized the government itself. None of these strategies were effective. In the earlv 1970's. the armv admitted det'eat and "released" the political system. 
During his br-ief political come­back. Peron worked intermittently to restore a working political coali­tion and to reduce the broad range of political activity. This time. however. he was too old to enter­tain the crowds and too exhausted to resist the political whirlpool. The average Argentine soon be­came exhausted and turned away from the political circus. A new compromise and a scaling down of politics was badly needed. 
The military leaders believe they know what they are doing. In this they are like the civilian leaders. One of these days they will succeed. And Argentina will join her barbarian neighbors. Unfor­tunately. political exhaustion is hardlv the best framework for politi~·al imagination and modera­tion. But it's ideal for extremist politics. 
DOONESBURY by Garry Trudeau 
IUUL, GVY5, [ 5UPP05& YOIJ'V& 
AU H£AR1; 7J.IROlJGH TH& (j!i?JIPe­VIN& BY NOW 7HAT I'M TAKIN6 OFF S(X)N/ 8t/T YOII'R£ NOT 7D 
IAD<RY -M!K& H~ HA5 Ga.J­
cf?tlJSt.Y 
AFTeR. YOU! 


t/XJK! I WANT NOMORt OF yOIJR.II/IIJNIN6!A5 
OF THIS MOMfNT, YOU 
ARE OFF!CIAUY IN 
MIK&'S CAR£/ "D: " 

seriously folks!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~ 



No One Bribes The U.S. 
--------iiiiiiiiiiiiiii---~art buchwald 
WASHINGTON--One of the big problems in a national election is money. Most of the presidential candidates who have dropped out have said they did it because the well ran dry. Maccabee. a friend of mine, is very bitter about the system and blames our allies for 
this. "Whenever a foreign country has an election the United States gives their politicians money. Why don't they give us money when we have an election?" "Well. for one thing. Maccabee, it's against the law." "It's against the law in their countries. too, but that doesn't seem to stop the CIA from financing elections all over the world. Look at Italy. The CIA has poured millions of dollars into Italian elections. You would think Italy would show its gratitude by giving our politicians some money in exchange. After all. friendship isn't a one-way street." "I d~n't think you understand." I said. "The reason we support politicians in Italy is so that the country won't go Communist. It's to our interest to see the wrong government doesn't get in. Italy has nothing to fear from us no matter which party win!>, so there is no reason for her secret service to bribe any of our candidates.·· "That's just an excuse. I think the ltalfans are cheap. They don't want to spend a nickel on our elections. All their politicians know how to do is take money form us. But when the shoe is on the other foot and our candidates are going broke they look the other way. I think we should pass a law which says that we don't interfere in any country's elections unless they're willing to interfere in ours." "That's not fair." I told Maccabee. "Most of the politicians we've supported in other countries have accepted money from the CIA on the condition they wouldn't have to give it back. How would we look if we went to a foreign dictator and said 'Look. we've put you in office. Now it's your turn to give us the wherewithal to put one of our people in power."' Maccabee said, "What's wrong with thaJ? Look what we did in Chile. We made it possible for a bunch of unknown army officers to take over the country. Without our dough they might never have been able to do it. They're riding high now. The least they could do to show their gratitude is finance our presidential elections in 1976." "But it would be wrong." I protested. "If Chile financed our presidential candidates they would be interfering in our domestic affairs. You don't want that do you?" "We interfere in their domestic affairs. I'll bet you there hasn't been an election in the free world that the United States hasn't tried to swing with money. I'm not against it, all I'm saying is there should be a 'quid pro quo'. If we help them get elected they should help our people get elected. That's what allies are for." 
"The only thing wrong with your argument," I told Maccabee. "is that intelligence agencies of these countries don't have money to throw around the way the CIA does. A million dollars to bribe 
one of our politicians is a lot of money for them to spend." 
"I don't buy that argument," Maccabee said. "You know what I think? Most of our so-called friends don't give a damn about our elections. Oh, they may pay lip service to them, but when it comes to putting their money where their mouth is, they pretend we don't exist. The United States has been the most generous country in the world. Whatever a foreign politician asks for we give him without question. But when our politicians run out of money not one foreign intelligence agent says, 'Is there anything we can do for you?' I tell you, they're all playing us for suckers." 
''I'm sorry you feel that way, Maccabee," I said. ''I'm not the only one," he replied. "A lot of Americans are getting sick and tired of bribing foreign politicians and getting nothing back for it in return." · · · 
Monday, March 29, 197b 
Observer makes Oscar Picks 
The Observer is getting a reputation for bdng as accurate in its picks for the Academy Awards as it is in picking the Student Body President. Our percentage last year was only about 70 percent. but that matches the percentage from the sports desk for the national collegiate games, and it beat all but one of the student projections entered in the Obscr­''cr contest last year. We intend to do better this year. The Oscars arc on television tonight at I 0 on Channel 28. 
The award for Best Director could go to either Robert Altman for Nashville or to Stanley Kubrick for Barry Lyndon. Neither of the ·dircl·tors have won in the past, and both arc directors of notable distinction. hut the award this year will go to Kubrick for tyndon, The innovations and visual perfection of his movie earmark him for long-overdue recognition. Besides that, Nashville was choppy and uneven. and Fcllini. who will also be considered for the award. cannot win. The Academy only nomirwtcs directors for 'artsy' foreign films. They never go as far as they should, being commercially minded. Milos Fore­man will not win for One Flew Over the Cul·koo's Nest because he doesn't deserve it, So it's Kubrick by a process of logistics. 
Logic. however. never applies to the selel'lion of Best Picture. The only thing the Academy has managed to be fairly l'lmsistent with is in giving the tilm with the Be~t Director distinction the Best Picture award, Since I%7 they have deviated from that only twice. But the Observer believes they will do it again. 
One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest will be 

named Best Picture for 1975. Historically, 
if thcv do choose Kubrick. the award 
~houlti go to Barry Lyndon. hut the word 
from Hollvwood is that this is the Ycar of 
thl' Cuck-oo. Cuckoo's director Milos 

Uriah Heep: 

Foreman won't win the director's award simply because he's overtly out-classed, and Barry Lyndon could win Best Picture, especially in view of the consideration that Tom Jones. a film of the same nature, won it in 1963, but the Observer maintains its confidence in Cuckoo's Nest. 
The other tilms nominated for Best Picture are Jaws. Nashville and Dog Day Afternoon. Jaws and Dog Day Afternoon have no chance for the big cookie. Nashville. however, could do it, while Altman could take the director's award and therefore keep the Academy consistent. but it simply won't happen. 
The Best Actor Award will go to Jack Nicholson for Cuckoo's Nest. This is the fifth time he's been nominated for an Oscar. and the odds arc in his favor this time around. Besides all that. his performance is the pick of the crop, The other nominations are: Walter Matthau for The Sunshine Boys, AI Pacino for Dog Day Aftcrnoon. Maximilian Schell for Man in the Glass Booth. anCI James Whitmore for Give 'em Hell, Harry!. Some critics are speculating that the votes for Nicholson and Pacino may cause a split and someone else's victory. namely Matthau's, but don't 
count on it. Isabelle Adjani will be awarded the Best Actress prize. Glenda Jackson won't win because she's won twice in the past. and Ann-Margaret won't win because she doesn't deserve it. Carol Kane (nominated for Hester Street) is a nobody. Adjani's only competition is with Louise Fletcher. the bitch nurse from Cuckoo's Nest. Adjani was magnificent in The Story of Adele H. and the Observer believes the Academy is neither blind nor altogether stnpid. The awards for the supporting cast are more diflicult to pick. Either George Burns 
disappointing performance Dom Salemni ~ Vicki Warren 
Rock returned to the ACC after a four-nwnth absence, and what a return. The evening opened with an appearance by an apparently sexually frustrated band, Skvhooks. The csscnsc of the band could bl: found in their lewd lyrics and suggestive 
~tanl·e~, 

They provided perhaps the highlight of the evening with their no doubt soon-to-bc­hit-~inglc "You Only Like Me 'Cause I'm Good in Bed," Dressed like escapees from an asylum, they played an entertaining half-hour, their leaving the stage bringing hardy cries of disapproval even more obSl'Cnl· than those unleashed on stage. 
Not ll'tting the intense level of excite­ment die down. Montrose took to the stage after a mere three-quarter hour wait. Shy and unobtrusive, Ronnie Montrose shoud surely he commended for his ability to withstand bright spotlights for hours at a time. Another point of interest was their novel usc of a multi-faceted globe to rctlcct the spotlight into thousands of tiny piece!i of light. It was a pleasantly innovative technique sure to catch on among groups of lesser talent who could usc it to distract the morons from perceiving the ineptitude of their performance. 
The set Montrose turned in was loud, undistinguished rock 'n roll accented only by Mr. Montrose's paradoxically pious pyrotechnics. An obvious comment on their performance is the fact that the best tunc performed was "Oh Lucky Man." which was not written bv the band. 
The effects of the ~ongs were often rendered impotent by Ronnie's unselfish attitude in giving the crowd the benefit of his peerless prowess on the guitar. These frequent forays may have entertained Ronnie Montrose's sexual fantasies, but to the audience it appeared to be only an cxccrise in facial contortions. 
After Montrose left the stage, the nearly hysterical mob thrashed about in eager anticipation of Uriah Heep's momentary arrival, a reaction Montorsc mistook for approval. Their subsequent return to the stage hushed the expectant crowd. This hugh built to a crescendo as the Uriah Hcep roadies took a leisurely hour to set up. 
And then it happened. Uriah Hcep took the stage in total darkness. Taking advantage of the crowd's exuberant mood, lead singer David Byror refused to lead the band into a sound explosion, instead opting to explain internal problems, that being the perils of rock stardom. It seems that their clumsy bass player found out the hard way that water anhtectricity don't mix; the failed experiment resulted in him being thrown from the stage. suffering torn ligaments. 
After recounting this tragic tale, Byron brought the crowd out of their doldrums with an evangelistic power, merely by asking that infamous rock cliche, ·'Are you feel in· alright?" The now responsive mass thrilled to the histrionics of Byron. groaned to the wailing of Box's guitar. and gasped at the injur·cd bassist's game attempts to pick himself up off the floor after continually falling from his stool. 
In between these theatrical maneuvers. the band churned out several abrasive and obnoxious numbers that did little to detract from the goings-on onstage. 
Thomas O'Neil 
(for The Sunshine Boys) or Burgess 
Meredit~ (for Day of the Locust) could take 
it. Both arc old men deserving token 
recognition for historical careers, but count 
on Meredith winning. He gave the most 
magnilicent performance in Locust that has 
snuck out of Hollywood unedited in years, 
and he could win for his engulfing smile if 
for no other reason. Burns. however. could 
also do it. It'll depend on who has more 
friends in the sea of 3,000 odd-ball 
Hollywood voters. 

The Best Supporting Actress award is a free-for-all. Sylvia Miles (Farewell, My Lovely). Lee Grant (Shampoo). or Lilv Tomlin (Nashville) all have an equal chance. Miles. however, docs little more than manage to be beautiful throughout Farewell. The final vote will be decided as it was in 1970 with Goldie Hawn's win, bv Tomlin's popularity or even by Gran{s professionalism. The Observer trusts in the commercialism of Hollywood. Lily Tomlin. . 
The tina! all-around vote may very well go as the Observer predicts, but the likelihood is that we will be 30 percent wrong. as we were last year. There is no sure-proof way of guessing how Hollywood 
the observer 5 


I 
l 
j 
l 
l 
I 
l j 
I 
I 
I 
people will vote. The '"sleeper~" al~ll 
have a chance. The' arc: Barn LJndon for Best Pkturc, Altman for Bc~t Director. Pacino or Schell for Best Actor Jackson or Kane for Best Actress, Burn· for Best Supporting Actor. and Lee Grarll for Best Supporting Actrc~~­
On a final note, if we had tning~ our wa1. the vote would go this wav: Barn I.mdo;1 Best Picture; Stanley Kubrick. Be~t Direct or; Nicholson, Best Actor; Adjani, Best Actress; Meredith. Best Supporting Actor: and Grant, Best Supporting Actress. 

•.--------------------------------...;.---=-~--"' 
,(· 




tNashuille' and Babylon 
I 
'·­

Fr. B.ill Toohey ~A 
You will soon know if I'm right or not. But I strongly suspect that when the Best Picture is announced at the Academy Awards tonight. , Nashville is an also-ran. Many critics believe Nashville -deserves 
to  win;  but  it  should  be  no  surprise  to  
anvone  if  it  doesn't.  After  all.  the  
Academv  members  have  never  had  the  

reputati~n for letting questions of art interfere with their selections. made so frequently in the past out of sentiment or because of various pressures skillfully applied. 
There is good reason to suppose the Academy will pass up Robert Altman's film: he clearly is a threat to them--a man they can't control, can't even understand. When he first started in Hollywood, for example, powerful movie mogul, Jack Warner. was heard to rage: "That guy Altman is so dumb he has all his characters talking at the same time." 
"Nashville is, as you know, a political allegory disguised as a comedy-drama about the Country & Western music business. "a metaphor for America." as Altman calls it. He suggests that our country is going through a kind of recurrent nightmare, with no apparent end in sight; he depicts feelings of estrange­ment. apprehension and demoralization that arc unresolved and unhealed. and probably arc destined to remain that way. 
If Altman's reach exceeds his grasp. if his ambition to present an American allegory doesn't result in a fully realized work of art, it is still an important film, worthy of serious consideration (and it will be discussed long after "Jaws is long forgotten). 
There are powerful elements of truth in what we vies in "Nashville." In Altman's melancholy percetion of the State of the Union, there arc growing signs that this is an apocalyptic time and that America qualifies for the classification as a Babylon. 
Altman's perspective is fatalistic, gloo­my. pessimistic; his world is a world of shattered dreams and broken hearts. He is heartbreakingly effective in presenting people who thirst for life, for a small "place" where they are valued. The characters of "Nashville" hope that the sentimental poetry and repetitious harmo­nies of their music wit: fill the void in their lives. But of course it doesn't. They seem to know this, too; but it's the only solution they can fashion. so they keep hoping it will be different the next time around. 
Altman's view of America was echoed by Professor Joseph Duffy. in his essay in the last Scholastic; and interestingly enough. Mr. Duffy makes explicit reference to 
Nashville . He insists that our system has not v.orkcd for a long time. He cotes Gerald Fore as "an emblcm of the dominant absence or emptiness in our society," he laments our indecent society, with ite pertifyingly materialistic capital­6m, its militarism and games of death. its racism and intransigent suppression of l11man rights. Duffy says that "the c:mptiness we feel, the absence we try to ceny, the prehension that menaces -­hcse occur because we live in a prtson 
luund in the bondage our society will 
aways impose on its inmates... . 
There arc a good many others around ~ these days who feel the same. Some . describe the world as without a furutc. An : author like Professor Robert Hcilbroncr. 1for example. concludes that we would have • to pay a fearful price to change _and improve our society; an? ~'C won't. 1 hus there is no basis for opt1mt~m. 
We arc reminded of St. Paul. He once wrote, "All creation groans and trcvails in' pain." But St. Paul didn't say just that. He insisted that there was more to the story: the full reality opf our present, painful moment includes also the presence and influence of God's kingdom. There is something more. precisely because God has not left us alone. He says: "I am a God rich in mercy; I love you s(J much that I have given you my only Son." The Father doesn't condemn the world; he is present in this fallen world to do battle against the 
forces  of  death  and  dchumani7.ation  all  
around us.  
His  presence  becomes the  remedy  for  

the human isolation and desolation in all' our "Nashvillcs." And there is a bit of "Nashville" in each of us. .Jesus would, teach us how to exist in the midst of 
Babylon. Dependent upon grace in the face I of death. receiving life as a gift and not a payoff. we can be led to become more fully alive. 
If this were not so, despair would by now be the only sanity. and we could count the person smartest who beat the hastiest retreat to a serene island or desert hideaway. I can't help but think God would have us look reality straight in the eye; and realize that. first of all. we ha\'c countless signs for pessimism. Pessimism follows from statistics. and they arc pretty grim. We know the sad litany. As Joseph Duffy put it. our present structure "punishes the poor -young and old. white and black-a~ minimal consumers, enthralls the middlt' class with dreams of endless con!.umption and pays homage to the nwmagcrs hy conferring power and riches 011 those blank idols." 
But the Christian, looking all of this right in the face. in one who is convinved that it is not only possible, but indccs absolutely necessary for us to he simultaneously pessimistic and hopeful. One docs not cancel out the other. Statistics lead up to pessimism, hut man docs not live b~, statistics alone. There is more that the tangible, measurable facts we sec around us. We also sec signs of God'sprcscncc in the land, and his powerful Spirit. We sec people--people coping with evil. the tragic. the corruption and the suffering; and still holding on to their irreducible humanity, to their grace, and their sense of humor. 
Consequent!\. in the midst of the pessimism that we arc led to by the statistics mounting all around us, we arc also led to hope. Not only permitted to hope, but impelled to hope-to have a 
for the lc. 

~ ~6o:___~t~h~e~o~b~s~e~r~v~e~r~--~~~M~o~n~d_a~y-,:....M_.~a-r~c_h~2~9~;'-1_9_76 ­
I I 


I I~ Indian officials favor sterilization
I I 
NEW DELHI. India (AP) -Indian nouncement of a plan to penalize officials. intensifying their drive to ,esidents of the capital and gov­curb the birth rate in the nation's ernment employes who do not limit capital. are sending teachers and their families to two children. mobile medical units into this city's To stimulate the drive, thous­poorest areas to encourage steriliz­ands of teachers have been told to 
ation. convince at least five married 
The sterilization drive, part of a persons to voluntarily undergo national effort to prevent India's sterilization operations during the population of 600 million from month of March, according to B.S. growing to one billion by 1990, is a Nakra. deputy family planning followup to last month's an-director for the capital's adminis­
tration.
SG, SU accepting 
Old Delhi focus 


76-77 applications 

''The focus of the campaign is 
Applications are still being ac­the walled city of Old Delhi,'' 
cepted for positions in Student Nakra said in an interview. 
Government and Student Union. "I should call Old Delhi a big 
The deadline for acceptance of slum. It is over-populated. over­
applications for Student Govern­congested. the lowest socio­
ment positions is Tuesday at 5 p.m. economic group," he said. "They 
Applications for positions in are most in need of this service." 
<;tudent Union will be considered The sterilization campaign of the 
for another week. Delhi administration, which gov­
"We arc especially looking for erns the federally-controlled terri­
people r,, work in the areas of 
Public Relations and Special Pro­


Officer petitions 
jects." Mike Gassman. SBP-elect. 
.,aid. "We need people who are 


now available
eager and\\ ho can offer a variety of 
talents.·· 

Petition forms to qualify for class "The opening of the special officers may be picked up at theprojects area will be mostly on an Student Government offices start­experimental basis.'' Gassman ing this afternoon at I :30.
noted. "The people involved will 

Voting for Senior. Junior andwork on helping to lower the state Sophomore class officers will bedrinking age. and in doing basic held on Tuesday April 6th. Runoffsinvcst.i~ativns and trouble-shooting will be conducted on Thursday·.·:crk. 
April 8th. if necessary. ­The positions of Judicial Coordi­Each ticket must submit at leastnator. Academic Commissioner, fifty signatures and I.D. numbersand Executive Coordinator also in order to be placed on the electionhave to be filled, Gassman noted. 
ballot. Any questions should beOther positions open are the Direc­directed to any of the presenttor of Freshman Orientation and Senior class offficers. 
the commissioner positions within Student Union. ·'There are a variety of positions 

Jazz meeting
open in Student Government," 
Gassman noted. "We are mostly Anyone wishing to help conductinterested in getting people involv­the Collegiate Jazz Festival in someed in positions from which they can capacity should attend a meeting

do the student body as a whole the night at in
Tuesday 7:00 the most good.·· 
Rathskellar. or phone Dick Garrett Applications can be picked up at at 232-8532. 
the Student Government offices on 
the second tloor of LaFortune. 


became a national prionty m the mid-1960s. but the results have been mtxed. 
The current birth rate is about 37 per thousand population, meaning 22 million births a year. With 13 million deaths annually. the overall population growth is about 13 million a year. 
The Delhi plan, which was announced last month and is expected to be put into effect shortly, denies pay raises. govern­ment housing and a range of benefits to couples who refuse to limit their families to two children or refuse to agree to sterilizing one partner if t~ere are already more than two chtldren. 

tories of both Old and New Delhi. has received wide attention in the Indian press. 
But neither the focus of the drive nor the directive issued to teachers has been reported. 
Nakra said that in the past three months 10,000 of the city's nearly 5 million residents have undergone either vasectomies or tubectomies, matching the total recorded for the previous nine months. 
Nakra refused to specify the targets for the richer areas of the 

lnPIRG board POSitions open 
I. t' c c I PIRG'
App tea wn 10rms tor n s
Board of Directors will be available .~.._..._..._.,,,,,..._,..._._.,...,,...._...._...._.,...,...,...,......_.,..._ 
today at the InPIRG office, on the ~ ATTENTION' !
' 

~ ~ 
city, where the mobile units visit less frequently, but he acknow­ledged that the target of five in Old Delhi was the highest. 
For those teachers who do not meet their goal there will be no penalty, Nakra said. 
Rewards 
For each person he persuades to accept a sterilization operation, a "motivator" receives 10 rupees, about $1.25. Each "acceptor" re­ceives 40 rupees, about $5, and perhaps a bonus of a blanket or a bush shirt. Delhi officials said. 
Such mobile camps have been used in India since family planning 
. 

2nd tloor of LaFortune. Seven directorships are open for ~ the 1976-1977 school year. The ~G 
s h 
elec~ion ~ill be .held.on T~esday, 7eor.ge C euer.
:i11111 

Apnl 6, m conJunction wnh the !:j ' class elections. ~ • • t cop
It is the responsibility of the ~ universi y y Board of Directors to supervise all ~ d local chapter projects, to maintain :illlll an the local office, to care for the local !:j tinances, and to repres~nt Notre !:!Ken Brad-ford 
Dame InPIRG at statewtde meet-~ 'J 1 ' ings and in statewide projects. ~ • t Ob 
' InPIRG's projects this year have ~pas server copy e I tor' ~ 
mcluded a survey of. a.rea day care :illlll ~ centers, grocery prtcmg surveys, !:j 
d 
~n environmental educa~ion sem-!:!will speak at anObservercopyreadin 
mar. and a consumer gutde hand-~ book which ranged from auto repair ~ k h th• T d ~ 
tips to pertinent information for ~ wor s op IS ues a y' March 30 ~ student renters that was extensive-:illlll '~ ly distributed on an.d off c~mpus. !:1 at 7:30 p.m. in the first floor :illlll 
Presently, InPIRG ts workmg on ~ !:j activities for Food Day, redlining, ~L F R ~ and a nursing homes study. ~ a ortune theatre. efreshments ~ In order to expand its activities ~will b ~ and projects, lnPIRG needs an e Served afterwards :illlll
:i11111 

energetic and imaginative Board of !:j • !:1 Dire~tors. Anyone interest.ed in !:j AJ.l copyreaders must attend !:j 
runnmg for a Board of Dtrector ~ ~ 
posi~ion.must fill out and return the ~ and the general public is . "t d ~ 
apphcatwn to the InPIRG office by ~ InVI e . ~ 
5:00 p.m. Thursday, April 1. If ~ ~ 


~~~::ct[fsa a~~lici~:!~i~~~-6~~~:~~ ~ ATTENTI0 N!! ! ! 
287-2176. ................................................................................................. 

year 



you could be on scholarship. 
You have something tc st.are with the p!..:!ople 

An Air Force ROTC 2-year scholarship .. Which not only pays your tuition, 
of the rural South and Appalachia-yourself. 


but also gives you $100 a month allowance. And picks up the tab for yourFind out abo~t the 
opportunities open to 


books and lab fees, as well. 
vou as a Glenmary Prif.~t. Brother or Sister. 


And after college, you'll receive a commission in the Air Force ... go on to 
For fre ; 1nformation about opp•A­tunities w1th Gi<:onmarv Home Ms­


further, specialized training... and get started as_alJ Air Force officer. There'll 
sioners. write: GLENM/,RY. Room 1n 


be travel, responsibility, and a lot of other benefits. 
Box 46-.(04 Cincinnati. Ohio 45246 


But it all starts right here ... in college ... in the Air Force ROTC. Things
lJ Also please send free 
17" x 22" God Made Me 
Poster. Shown Above 


will look up ... so look us up. No obligation, of course.
D Senu free poster only. 

CONTACT: CAPT. M. l. STOCKDALE 
~<ame _________ 

ASST. PROFESSOR OF AEROSPACE STUDIES. 
Address _________ 

283-6635 
•:=lty______State_____ 


Put it all together in Air Force ROTC.
Zip,______Age_____ 

• ' • • .. • ./ • • • • • ' • > t '' • ~ • • • ~ ~ ' f . < '· ••••• ~ ......... . 
• • ~ ~ 
:illlll 
!:j
r d ~ 
ea er, ~ 
~ ~ 
:illlll 
!:1 
~


d• ~ 


_M_o_n_d_ay.:..:,_M_ar_c_h_2_9:...'..:...19=--7....::6____~t..-..:h~e~-o~b~s~e::'...'r!....v~e~r___
7. 



Reagan changes campaign approach to TV 
Freeon Wedn ~ 
Yolu.,utoul hoMt

• GRE • : 
: GMAT ""dy ;·'~~ ..,, : 

~~~=;;;;;;;;.;:cArF.RING FREE DELIVERY~
• Q(AT 
Cour111 lhllllt • • con111nlly u!HIIItd • 
KEN'S DEN :SPE<..IALLy ;: : CPAT • • 
! JO THE (with $15.00 minimum purchase.) * 
• VAT ''P' 'I('''"" ror : 
HAIR STYLING --~ ND-SMC t
e rrwttw' of CIIU e
• SAT 
ltUOlll aftd lor uu e 

! COMMUNITY PHONE: 259-0261 t
• fLEX ol luPP'•"''"''"' •
• ...,,...1, • 

MEN & WOMEN ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••+•••••
!ECFMG ...~. :p, lor : 
ACROSS FROM l 00 CENTER t ++++++++++++++++~•~.,.
• "''"'d leuon1 : 
{LINCOLNWAY WEST IN MISHAWAKA) •
: NA T'L MED BDS : : NAT'L DENT BDS: 
PH0 NE 255-6500 t ..JJ 



Budweiser® 
• Mott clos&et start 8 wpek\ • • prtor ro E•am • 
APPOINTMENTS PREFERRED : ~ 
e Sp11ng & Fall comp&cll • 
'f)

: Some coursat off,red on e 
• ~

• Ma,or Cempuwu e 


~ eag:,leJ 
: INDIANAPOLIS : 
.:::;
·~ 

• 6620 Grcurntht't!' OrtvP e 
• lndoanapolol, lnd 46270 e 
~~oritt~
• 13171 842·1267 : 
'v
• ('!) 

100 CENTER COMPLEX
• CHICAGO CENTER •
•: 1312) 764-5151 •• teD 
UOPICAL 
··~ 
any regular
GENERAL & 
. ·~ ~ 

IOUTIQUE, 'LANTEIS, DOLlS, GAMES I AMUSEMENTS. FESTIVE DICORATIVE. I'IRSONAL ITEMS 
.rg OFF priced item 
NOVELTIES, DECORATIVE I'ILLOWS, WOODENWARE I IOXES .. .. 'SE




i~~~~ 
INCENSE IURNEIS. CANDLES I CANDLE HOLDERS. W""a.fe'flef 1,
e · u.c•auS'!t , ......r ,,. e 
CESSOIIIES. IIIDSP'READS I SOFT GOODS, V ASJ• -'S V b co with this ad. ,•.
....,..,___,......... . 
DICOIIATIVE M[TALWARE. fiGUIIINES I 'T' IIO'Ct\"" \'l" 
e llUI,._._. e 
NATURAL MATERIALS. DECORATIVF '\:. o\~ ~q S""~ o>ECOR, ••r,,..• "Uatoo US ':•1•" 
.WHITE P'ORCElAIN, DINNUIIII" • t\ ,,,e \1\ • .~tRAMIC MUGS, 
SEIVICE ITEMS, GlAS• • t\~ef \ r.o~. \1 • oJIIINK SEIVICE BUSCH® MICHELOB~. A&Eagle
GlASSWARE, • ;_n (.e • ~ ~ 5ERVICE. I'I.ACEMATS I TOP' A\VV•.,II. "Qt\• ..cl'l UTElSilS, P'OTS I P'ANS, Oll'rnt'>n• ltOUSEkEEI'IHG I .rr'UES, ACCESSOIMS. GAIIDEN TOOLS I alll'-rulll!'ll 
! MCAT SOON :­
l•.. Register Now.;;j
~•...........••• 
by Doug Wills 

ballot in only one of the three Associated Press Writer 
scheduled next month, the April 6 Wisconsin race. And at least LOS ANGELES (AP) --Ronald temporarily the former California 
Reagan is changing campaign tac­
governor is trying a new approach.tics after his North Carolina victory Reagan will spend up to $100.000 over President Ford, turning to 
this week for a 30-minute nation­television, the medium he knows 
wide television address. 
and uses best. 
"let's just say that we feel at Reagan is entering a lull period 
times maybe the governor should in the primaries, appearing on the talk directly to the American people 

AKD plans convention 
b}· Tim Hellmann Strain in Residence Hall Govern­
Staff Reporter ment." 
These subjects will be the topic 
The First Notre Dame Convent­of interest for thirteen discussion ion for Graduate and Undergrad­groups. which will be chaired by uate Sociological Research will be faculty members from the various 
held this weekend in LaFortune participating institutions. The Center. group sessions will be held be­
Sponsored by the local chapter of tween 3:00p.m. and 4:45p.m. on Alpha Kappa Delta (National Socio­Friday, April2,and from 9:00a.m. logy Honor Society). the convention to 4:30p.m. on Saturday, April 3. is the first of its kind in the Program participants will also Midwest. Graduate and under­attend a convention luncheon as graduate sociology students and guests of AKD. where the main fat·ulty members from colleges and event will be a presentation and universities in a five-state area discussion by Professor J. Milton have been invited to attend. Yinger of Oberlin College, presi­
Students were asked to submit dent elect of the American Socio­their best papers as topics for logical Association. Yinger will discussion. The papers arc grouped speak on "A Middle Start. or Is under thirteen subject areas: Social Kindergarten Too late?" Psychology (2 groups). Urban Seg­Twelve sociology students from regation and Community Change. Notre Dame and one from St. Sociological Theory (2 group~). The Mary's will participate directly in Sociolog~· of law, Urban Sociolog~·­the sessions. which arc open to the Worncn'~ liberation. Population. public. The Sociology of Education. Re­tirement and Death. Industrial 
Vespers said daily 
Sociology. and Education Organ­it.ation. 

in Log Chapel, SH 
Papers cover such themes as Vespers is celebrated on Mon­"Svmbolic Interaction in a Bar." 

days ;1nd Thursdays at S: IS p.m. in .. S~·xual Stereotyping in Children's the log Chapel and on Sundays atLiterature." and "Organizational 4:JO p.m. in the lady Chapel of Sacred Heart Church.
Farley reunion 
Although the practice has long been associated with the images of

planned tonight 
chanting monks, the earliest Ves­pers werl' ;1 part of everydayat Senior Bar scnrlar religious life. Vespers is a chance to end the day with sung 
All Farle~· residents, past and pra~;cr and rctlcction. 
prc~cnt. arc invited to a reunion at the Senior Bar tonight, beginning at l'ight. The reunion is spon~nred lw the la~t da!->!-> of males to rve in 


Shop the
Farlcv. All Farlev residents arc urgc(i to attend. · 

~~;;·§·~···~ 
: difference!!! : 
100

•~-,.f 1'011 •• 
:e MCAT 1~'"" •
O.ll :
of IIJieiiiiiCt 




Center
: DAT ..,.'':"" : 
: LSAT ~~~ ,,,.le\ : 
instead of filtering it through the media," says campaign spokesman lyn Nofzinger.  But the plans bring tC> mind an earlier Reagan television address in another presidential campaign,  partisan politics until Republican Barry Goldwater's campaign for President in 1964.  
First in campaign  an address that overnight trans­formed Reagan from an actor to a  On  Oct.  27. 1904,  Reagan  ap­ 
major political figure.  peared  on  national  tclc\'ision  for  
It  will  be  the  first  nationally  half an hour.  The speech  wa~  too  
televised address in his campaign  A Democrat until  1962, Reagan  little and  too late for  Goldwatl'r·~  
against  Ford  for  the  Republican  had been giving speeches extolling  failing campaign. but was a st·n~a­ 
nomination.  Campaign aides say  free enterprise for General Electric  tion  in  Republican circles,  and  it  
that it will be a  "major address,"  during the years he was host of GE  was  a  major  factor  in  making  
declining comment on what Reagan  Theater on national television.  But  Reagan  a  credible  candidate  for  
will talk about.  he had very little connection with  governor of California in 19oh.  

Classified Ads 
NOTICES Lost: set of keys on Friday, March 
26. Possibly lost in someone's car There once v. as a l<lSSi<' named K,, coming back from Nickie's II found Who would scheme a! 111e drop ol
Papers professionally and promplly 
typed. IBM Selec1ric II and com 
please call Craig at 3336. hat.
plete typing service. Call 277 2922. 
She'd connive and consp1re. FOR RENT And never would lire,Stereo Components, 20 40 percent discount. all quality namebrands. 
Of sticking a knife in your back! Summer houses and rooms for rent, Nirvana she says is a dink.
RMS Audio, 321 S. Main, 288 1681. M F, 12.;00 6 :00. 
real close to campus. Iurn ished And Pipe Man she claims is a f1nk ridiculously reasonably. 233 2613 or She triPd to dump Weasel. Accurate, fast typing. Hours 8 A.M. 232 7263. But like Evel Kneivel, to 8 P.M. Mrs. Donoho, 232 0746 She's lhe one who ended up in lhc 4,5,6 bedroom houses, completely drink. Typing $.35 per page, call Dan, furnished. Extremely nice real close So here's a warninq to all of the 272 5549 
to campus. Sept. 1976. 9 month boys, lease, 233 2613 or 232 7263. Don't foil for this g1rl and her ploys. LOST AND FOUND A cream pie or two. Summer rentals, 4 bedroom. 5 May come flying at you, 
Lost. two male Labrador· Retreivers. And we'll have to l,lke away all her
bedroom house, I bedroom apt .. 3 one black, other black with white 
bedroom apt. all furnished, near toys. ches1, 6 months old. Recent surgery, 
NO, very reasonable. 234 2626. require medication. Reward offered. There once was a fellow named Put Call 232 1557 or 283 3193 or 283 
For ren1 next school term, 5 bf'd Who suddenly developed a gut 6151 rooms, 2 baths, all furnished. porch. Though the din1ng hall he clerked, off street parking, ncar NO.9 month He ate more than he worked. 
LosI: o blue nylon NO jacket at lease, 234 2626 And is now known al Put tile Glut • Burkl' Golf Course, Monday around 5 P.M. Please call 3574, thank you 
Furnished houses two lo seven Pul, never cross the q1rls!! 
bedrooms, availoble lor September LosI: Complete Works of Shake or June. call 234 9364. The Dancin' Irish (ilnd her room spcare (sometime before break) mates) wish the Bazoom Woman family heir loom. Reward. 3378. 
FOR SALE Happy 20th Birthday! 
Must sell quality stereo components Peaches, Arclly Bldg. Call 287 0742. C111 Ron at 287 0885 "If I could make 1he days last forever, Our son lost his class ring ('77) al a 
Lost: pipe, around LaFortune or 
TEAC 1600A reel 10 rf'el. $195, call II words could ma~t· wishes come pep rolly nol long ago. It hod a 
Cltris 3485. true, sapphire stone and we are unable to I'd save everyday like a treasure and replace it The ring means a great PERSONALS then, dC'ill to us. Could lhe finder please I would spend them with you. 
contact the editor of the Observer Bull Moose Party thanks: Happy 6 month annoversary. And 
to: positive identification ol the St1ane Carew. Mark Eck, Paul the best is yet to come. this is only ."IIHJ? We would be extremely Gillespie, Mike Hammel. Michelle the beginning. I lovP you. Cutes. :)rilfeful Jaworski. Steve K ruis, Judy Mardo 
ian, Rick Mazzei, Joe Lrciardello, Countess, Lost. poir of glasses. brown plastic Molly McKenna. Your work made it Here's to more nights ol rotten trn111e5, f1nlcd lense~, brown case. a success. Special thanks to Pat movres. Whatever happened to the Ci!lt Doug 8858. Mooney. good ones? 
~ ~ ~ NOW OFFERING 10 &15% 
~ ~ 

~ DISCOUNTS ON CASES OF WINE/liQUOR.
EQUIPMENT ! ~ 
RENTAL ! 
~ HOURS: 
$6.00DAY ~ 
MON-SAT

$8.00 WEEKEND ! 

~ 9:30-MIDNIGHT 
the observer 






Cautious Dan Devine opens drills 

,Jwuld pay di1idcnds this season, offensive line coach, but has also 
Dan Devine begins his second season as Notre Dame's head coach this afternoon as spring
, 'L'll thnugh I'm cognizant that we been named as coordinator of 
practice starts. (Photo by Chris Smith)
h.t1c' to ~nh L' -,omc problems on recruiting for the Irish. ,,tkn'>c 11·ith the graduation of four for I .150 vards and seven touch­in the last game of the season. our veterans and try to develop our The team has only 20 days of 111terior linemen." he said. downs last vear. and halfback AI Restic set a Notre Dame record for younger people this spring," De­spring practice including the an­
The team has lost 12 monogram Hunter. who added 558 yards and punting average with a 43.5-yard vine said."We'll be experimenting nual Blue-Gold game. so Devine is "inner' from last year's squad, eight scores last fall. will be looked mark. with some new formations and with anxious to have the team begin ;ndudinl! seven starters, four on upon to carry the bulk of the Ken MaeAfee, a first-team All­shifting some people to different contact drills as soon as possible. ·•lkn'>L' ~and three on defense. burden in the Irish ground attack. American last season, will return at positions. Of course you hesitate to As in the past. Wednesdays and 1-hm ever. all four of the offensive Thev will be joined by co-captain tight end. Dan Kelleher and Kris talk about shifting players because Saturdays will normally be scrim­pla1 ,·rs lost due to graduation were Ma~k McLane·. Terry Eurick. Steve Haines are vying for the split a kid may lineup at one position on mage days. depending on the ~tarting offensive linemen. Center Orsini and Dan Knott. receiver's position. one day and at another on another weather. Stc1 c Quehi. guard AI Wujciak and The quarterback situation, un­On defense Devine will have the day depending on how he works The 20-day spring session will tackles Ed Bauer and Pat Pohlen settled for most of last season. task of replacing All-American out." Two changes that Devine conclude with the Blue-Gold game ha1 c all departed, leaving Devine remains unsettled as the drills Steve Niehaus at tackle. Jim Stock will attempt to make are the shifts on May I at 2 p.m. in the Notre -,nrcl~· lacking in the offensive line begin. But at least this season the at linebacker and Tom Lopienski at of Jim Weiler from halfback to tight Dame Stadium. with only guard Ernie Hughes Irish have the added advantage of cornerback. His job will be made returning. Consequently, Devine the experience gained by Joe considerably easier by the return of will have much the same problem Montana and Rick Slager last year. ends Ross Browner and co-captain this vear as he did last year Montana and Slager will again be Willie Fry, tackle Jeff Weston, building an offensive line. in competition for the starting linebackers Bob Golic and Doug 
Devine is much more fortunate in berth, but they are expected to be Becker, cornerback Luther Bradley the offensive backtield where all of challenged by so;;homores Joe and safeties Randy Harrison and last season·s top ballcarriers re­Palazola, Russ Lisch and Joe Mike Banks. turn. Fullbacks Jerome Heavens Restic, who played in the defensive "We hope to lind replacements and Jim Browner. who combined backfield last year and at halfback for our graduated seniors, polish 
Michigan meets IU for title 
10 minute~ in the first half and foul line.
b~· Fred Herbst 

when we lost out poise we lost the, Kent Benson was the game'sSports Editor 
game. high _scorer with 16 point~. May 
Michigan and Indiana used out-John Robinson led Michigan on contnbuted 14 ~nd Qumn_Buckner 
,tanding dckn~c to notch win!. in offc·n'><' hitting for 20 points. Phil collected 12 for the wtnners. 
'>aturday·~ NCAA semi-final con-Hubbard and Ric~ey Gre~n each The storv of the game as far a<; 
IL' .:·,and qu~lit\ tn meet each other added !o markers for the wmners; UCLA was 'concerned might best be 
tnr the nat tonal champtonslllp to-Hnlhs ( ope!an~. the only Rutgers told in the Bruins' 34.4 shooting 
night in ~hiiadelphia. . player to hit with any co~1s1stency. percc:ntagc from the floor as com-
For Michtgan It wa~ the dete~l~-letlthe loser~ w1th IS pomts. . pared with a seasonal average of 
ilL' play of forward Wa1man Bntt, Iom Abernathy a~d Bobby W1l-S0.5 percent. Indiana shot 44.1 
,1 ho hl'ld Rut~crs' All-American ker~on tnggcred _Indiana to a 65-51 percent from the tloor for the 
Phil Selin~ to Jllq three pomts in w11,1 over ~letendtng NCAA cha_mp game. 
'ill' fir~t half. that paced the UC L.A. fhe unbeate_n Ho~sters Indiana will meet Michigan 
\VnilerinL·~ to t~<'_ir lio-70 trouncing scored theii: Jl~t str:1g~t ~~ctory tonight in an all-Big Ten final. The 
Finding a replacement for All-American Steve Niehaus will be one "' the SL·arl_et 1\.ntght!-,.. \lith the atd o_t Abcrr.lath) s 14 game will mark the first time t~at 
of Dan Devine's primary goals this spring. 
.\ftcr tailing behmd tn the early [Will!'> and Wilkerson s 19 re-two schools from the same contcr­1-!''ing. Mic·higan broke loose mid-hounds. . ence have met for the national title. 
Netters win two, drop one
1< a1 through thl' first half and UCLA .Ju_mped to _an ea;Iy ?-2 The Hoosiers beat Michigan twice "J'.trtccl to a 46-24 lead at t_hc . k<~d on Rich Washmgton .s five during the regular season, once in b T p d Slager winning 6-3, 3-6, 6-2 and 1ntc-rmi"'IOn. [{utgers shot incred1-point'> and held the lead untd Scott Ann Arbor80-74 and a second time Y om owan a O'Donnell teamed with Hainline to hh Jo11 with 27.5 percent from the May tied the game at 15. Afte~ an when the Wolverines forced India­
. 11 p k M d th squeak out a tough one 6-7. 6-3, 
. Co ege ar , ary1an was e 4_
IJ,.nr in the fir'>! half and ~ever exchange ot baskets. the Hoost~rs nato make a tip at the buzzer to put 6_ ,·.,uld get back mto contentwn. went to work, outsconng ~he Brums the game into overtime before s1te of the Cherry Blossom Tourn-The George washington match \\'hilc the Scarlet Knight_s_' shoot-17-'l to take _a 3~-26 halft_1me lead. losing 72_67 at Bloomington. ament where the Notre Dame . t t f th I · h netters' 
· · k d · . was a rue es1 o e ns 
in'-' improved to respectabthty, they Indiana _mal~tamed ~hetr advant-. . . , . . tenms team p1c e up two vtctones d th Sl t t 1·th arm
· . ep as ager sa ou w 
Cttiild do no more than play even in age un!ll SIX remamed as the T1p-otf for to_mgh~ s fmal IS_ set whlle suffermg one setback. bl T B d Da e 
. trou e. ony runo an v 
th,· ~cl·nnd half. Bruins closed to within six at 52-46. for 8:15. The ttlt will be telev1sed Maryland handed the netters thetr Wh . k d b' · t r'es 1·n 
. . . eaton p1c e up 1g vtc o 1 
·ob1 iouslv we were embarras-But UCLA could get no closer as nationally by NBC (channel 16 only defeat m a 6-3 dec1s10n. John fit' h d · th · 'th Bruno
· . . 1t an s1x smg1es w1 
,l·d." Rutgc·r.,· coach Tom Young the Hoosiers went into a stall and locally) with coverage beginning at Lucas. Maryland s All Amencan on . · d Wheaton 
h. wmnmg 6-.3, 6-1 an 


'>aid. ·"vVc [O!-,t our poise for about built theur final margin from the 8 p.m. 

NCAA Semi-Final Box Scores 
Indiana UCLA FG IT TPMkhigan FG Ff TP Rutgers FG Ff TP FG Ff TP 
Britt 5 1-1 II Sellers 5 1-3 II Abernethy 7 0-1 14 Washington6 3-4 IS Johnson 6 0-1 12
l~obinson 8 4-5 20 Copeland 7 1-1 IS May 5 4-6 14 Hubbard 8 0-3 lo Bailey I 4-6 6 Benson 6 4-6 16 Greenwood 2 1-2 5 Green 7 2-2 Io Jordan 6 4-4 16 Wilkerson 1 3-4 5 2
Townsend 0-0 4 Grote 14 Dabney 5 0-1 10 Buckner 6 0-1 12 McCarter 2 0-0 4
4 o-6 

. 
Drollinger 2-2 2
Baxter 2 1-2 5 Anderson 3 0-1 6 Crews 1 2-3 4 0 
Staton I 2-2 4 Conlin 2 0-0 4 Totals 26 13-21 65 0
Holand 0-0 0 

Bergen 0 0-0 0 Hcfele I 0-0 2 Spillane 0 0-0 0 Thompson 0 0-0 0 Totals 30 10-16 70 Smith 3 0-0 6 Schinnerer 0 0-0 0 
Hamilton 0 1-2 I Hardy 0 0-0 0 Vroman 0 0-0 0 Jones 0 0-0 0 Lippert 0 2-2 2
.. 
Olinoe 0 0-0 0 Totals 21 9-13 51 Lillard 0 0-0 0 
Totals 35 16-21 86 

Halftime: Michigan 46 Rutgers 29 Halftime: Indiana 34 UCLA 26 
Total fouls: Michigan 20, Rutgers Total fouls: UCLA 21. Indiana IS '2 Fouled out: UCLA, McCarter Fouled out: none A: 17,540 A: 17.540 
the basketbaII court, proved IS I' . b 'th 7 5 6 4 t · mph
excellence on the tennis court and s tpp~ng YWI a -· -nu · set the pace for the rest of the Ram shortened the final contest match as he defeated Notre Dame's so Horan and Bruno played_ a pro first singles player Rick Slager. s~t to s_ettle the match. The1r 10-3 Lucas' quickness and overall better victory 1ced th~ wm for Notr~ Dame play were decisive as Slager went and ~n_ded th~lr southern tnp. down in straight sets 6-3, 6-3. . Hatsmg then record !o 4-3, the 
Randy Stehlik in the number two In?h .netters now awa1t Western · H · · · Mtch1gan at home on Thursday
spot and Bnan amhne playmg the f 11 d b D p F · d 
1

fourth spot picked up victories in oPo/we Y e au/ on n ayd. singles while Slager avenged his 8nS re ease defeat as he and Stehlik teamed to 
for An Tostal 

beat the Atlantic Coast Conference do_ubles champs Lucas and Fred 
11JOCkS''-girlS tilt 
Wmkelman. 
The Irish's two victories came at Plans were announced yesterday the hands of Colgate and George for a tournament to determine who Washington. In the Colgate match, will play the Notre Dame men's Stehlik continued his winning ways varsity basketball team in the 
as he defeated Bill Danzell in annual "Jocks"-girls basketball straight sets 6-4, 6-3. Mike O'Don­game in An Tostal '76. nell, the Irish captain, pulled out a Any group of women from either victory against Dave Dubin in three Notre Dame or St. Mary's is sets 6-4,4-6,6-3. Hainline won eas­eligible. No team may have more ily at the number four spot 6-1, 6-1. than three women varsity players. 
To secure a victory in the match the To sign up for the tournament, Irish needed two out of the three call Judy Shiely at 6872 or Patty doubles spots. They got it as both Coogan at 6826. Sign-ups end went to three sets with Stehlik and Wednesday. March 31. 







