

an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's Vol XI. No. 56 Wednesday, December 1, 1976 
Dean Roemer addresses HPC; explains disciplinary procedures 
by Tom Byrne Senior Staff Reporter 
Dean of Students James Roemer appeared before the Hall Presi­dents Council last night and at­tempted to clarify his standard procedures for arriving at decisions regarding disciplinary matters. 
Roemer was invited to speak at the meeting by HPC Chairman J. 
P. Russell at the request of several hall presidents who expressed concern about apparent incon­sistencies in recent disciplinary actions. 
"I don't at all resent the fact that you have questions," he told the council. "I work for the entire community. I hope to demonstrate by answering your questions that I am responsible to you too.'' 
Describing the University regu­lations listed in du Lac as "my Bible," Roemer noted that he was not able to discuss specific cases. He instead outlined "how I norm­ally handle a case." 
Waiver is standard procedure 
Roemer explained that most disciplinary matters come to his attention "when somebody calls me up." These calls are usually from either campus security or one of the hall staffs. In a typical instance, Roemer possesses most of the facts before he summons the student to his office. 
At the initial confrontation with the student, the dean commented that he is cautious not to establish a "counseling relationship," so he will not be liable to accusations of deliberate deception to gain in­formation. "I explain my re­sponsibility as an enforcer of the rules and regulations of the Uni­versity,'' he said, adding that he emphasizes that the student "is in a serious relationship with the Uni­versity." 
After his first meeting with the student, Roemer indicated that he calls for a second conference after a two-day waiting period. During this interval, he prepares "a docu­ment stating the facts of the incident." The lapse also gives the student an opportunity to seek advice on the matter. 
By signing this waiver drawn up by the dean, the student consents to have Roemer assign the appro­priate disciplinary action. As an alternative, the student can request a hearing before a University official appointed by Roemer, or before the University Judicial Board. 
"I offer the hearing if there is any question about how the facts have been written," remarked Roemer. He stated that the students usually decline this option. 
He noted that this elaborate procedure is used only when deal­ing with serious matters. "I'm not going to go through all that if I'm just going to wind up saying, 'don't do it again,"' he said. 
Roemer added that a University official is always present when the waiver is taken to ensure that the · student involved was not coerced into signing. 
Drawing an analogy with the proceedings in a civil court, he expressed his objection to students who wish to appeal to the Uni­versity J-Board when they are dissatisfied with his decision. "You can't go to a different court because you don't like the deci­sion,'' he declared. 
Grounds for appeal 
"No waiver I've ever taken has ever waived the right to a hearing by the Appeals Board," said Roemer. He emphasized that a belief that the prescribed punish­ment was too severe did not constitute grounds for a legitimate appeal. 
The Appeals Board is composed of one administrator, one student and one faculty member appointed each spring by the Student Life Council. Beyond this group a student may appeal to the Uni­versity president for a final ruling. 
"A penalty itself is not a proper grounds for appeal in du Lac," said Roemer, "unless you could· show some violation of student rights, substantial new evidence, or some personal prejudice." 
In response to a question from Planner President Mark Eck, Roemer explained that the punish­ment in a particular case depended on several factors, including the number of previous offenses. 
He indicated that for the first parietals offense, "all by itself," some type of work assignment was arranged for the violator. A second offense usually warrants expulsion from the residence hall. Dismissal from the University results when transgressions are repeated or flagrant, such as "drop-kicking the parietal concept and combining it with drinking violations." 


HPC Secretary Mary McCormick stated that inconsistencies between the halls had resulted in an often erratic disciplinary policy. "Many rectors and rectresses handle Uni­versity policies in different ways," she said. "Numerous situations have never even gotten to you (Roemer). I'm not saying they necessarily should, but there's an injustice there." 
Roemer responded that he was "very muc.h aware" of the situa­tion. "It does bother me," he said, adding that he had sent the rectors a letter earlier in the year remind­ing them of their responsibility to 
[continued on page 3] 
Hesburgh hinted for HEW post 
by Chris Smith Asst. Managing Editor 
A list of candidates, including University President Theodore Hesburgh, for secretary and under­secretary of Health, Education and Welfare (HEW) in President-elect Jimmy Carter's cabinet, appeared in last Thursday's edition of the Washington Post. 
Thus there is speculation that the Notre Dame president might receive the appointment to the government post. 
The article also mentioned Rep. 
John Brademas and eleven others 
as candidates for the job, and 
revealed the names of fourteen 
possibilities for secretary and 
under-secretary of Housing and 
Urban Development (HUD). 
When asked about the rumors 
that he would be offered the HEW 
post, Hesburgh declined to 
comment, saying there had been no 
offer as of this time. 
A South Bend Tribune article 
yesterday quoted Hesburgh as 
"not even thinking about" the 
possibility of an appointment. 
An article last Friday in the Tribune said that Hesburgh would have to end his more than 24-year post as Notre Dame's president. The article further stated that Hesburgh would be reluctant to do this because of a forthcoming fund-raising drive in which he will be a key figure. · 
Last week, Hesburgh met with President-elect Carter to discuss what Hesburgh called "a special project.'' The nature of this project was not disclosed. 
At that ·meeting, Hesburgh presented Carter with a list of people he would recommend for cabinet positions. It is from this list and lists submitted by eleven other advisors that the persons named in the Washington Poat article were chosen. 
University information officials refused to comment on the possi· bility of Hesburgh becoming HEW secretary, explaining that the post hasn't yet been offered. 
Roemer has ordered that natural evergreen trees or branches wm


NO TREES 
not be allowed in campus bnild­ings in accordance with "tbe policy recommendations of tbe OSHA Central Committee of the University." 
The Committee, according to Roemer, has suggested the use of fireproof artiftcial trees and trimmings as an alternative. 
There are other traditional decorations at Christmas time which constitute an increased Ore hazard, such as candles and Christmas lights," Roemer's directive read. 
These safety measures must be observed to avoid a "tragic loss of life'' or personal injury,'' the directive continued. 
continues ~n the new St. Mary's athletic facility, scheduled to becompleted this year. [Photo by leo Hansen] 

League of Cities endorses decriminalization of drugs 
proved without dissent. DENVER (AP) -Strong support Hatcher said city officials are has emerged from the nation's more and more frustrated with biggest group of municipal officials law-enforcement efforts to curb to decriminalize all drugs, inclu­drug traffic. The proposal he ding heroin, as part of a vigorous guided through its committee tests attack on the stteet terror that illicit on Monday reads: drug trafficking brings to Ameri­"Whenever feasible. alcohol and ca's cities. drug abuse should be decriminal­
Decriminalization, the removal ized and handled as a behavioral of criminal penalties for possession health problem, as long as persons and use of narcotics, was endorsed are held fully accountable for any this week by the key committees on deviant or criminal actions while policy and resolutions of the Nat­under the influence of these sub­ional League of Cities. The stances." 
proposal goes to the league's Hatcher said he could not guess 3,000-member Congress of Cities whether the full Congress of Cities today. will approve the proposal but 
"The increase in drug-related added, "The giant social cost of crime and drug-related deaths are drug traffic--the burglaries, the an insufferable burden on urban robberies, the terror," may finally economies," said Mayor Richard lead the city officials to take "this Hatcher of Gary, Ind. who shep· giant step." herded the proposal through the Barbara Ackerman, council committees. member from Cambridge, Mass., 

If the congress approves the said the proposal should be secon­resolution, decriminalization would dary to efforts to define and become official league policy. eliminate the reasons drug addic­League staff members in Washing­tion continues to spread across the ton could lobby for federal laws United States. implementing the policy. Hatcher agreed but said: "We 
The league is a group of mayors are not suggesting that heroin be and other elected city officials. Its put on the market at the comer 
annual meeting ends Wednesday, drugstore," only that it be treated 
with the expected election of the as a health problem rather than as 
52-year-old league's first woman a criminal problem.
president, Seattle council member He said decriminalization would 
Phyllis Lamphere. remove the financial incentives Lamphere chaired the Resolu­from drug trade. "This is a tions Committee session in which big-bucks operation, and we want it 
drug decriminalization was ap-stopped cold,'' Hatcher said. 

--~~----~ -----­
..-------------------­
_2__.......:...th:..=...::e:.....::o:..::b:::..s:::..e=-.:...r...:.v~e:..::r~_..;.:.Wednesday, December 1, 1976 
,..News Briefs ____......... 
1==:::::::::======================= National 
Gilmore's sentence upheld 
SALT LAKE CITY-The Utah Board of Pardons ruled yesterday it would not commute the death sentence of convicted murderer Gary Gilmore, who says he prefers execution by a firing squad to a lifetime in prison. Gilmore sat calmly and thanked the board after Chairman George Latimer announced the decision. Gilmore had no comment for reporters as he walked from the room in which the board had heard almost two , hours of testimony. Latimer said he and board member Thomas Harrison voted in executive session after the testimony that the death sentence "will not be commuted or lessened." 

Steel exec defends prices 
PLAINS Ga. -The president of a major steel producer Tuesday proposed that steel industry leaders meet with President-elect Jimmy Carter to discuss recent steel price increases, but a Carter spokesman suggested the meeting might be unnecessary. Thomas C. Graham, president of Jones and Laughlin Steel Co. of Pittsburgh, the nation's seventh largest steel produces, volunteered to lead a delegation of steel executives to Plains to "review in detail the reasons the increases are needed." 
,...On Campus Today_ _, 
9:30am benefit, annual unicef sale. library lobby. 
10 am-5 pm show, isis gallery, park chambers sculpture installa­tions 
12:15 pm daily advent mass, celebrated by rev. robert griffin, Iafortune ballroom 
colloquim, "international implications of the green 
revolution" by animesh ghoshal and thomas patrick
3:30pm 

n.d. library lounge. ' 
3:30pm computer course, "pl/1" room 115, computer center/ math building 
3 30 pm meeting, college of arts and letters college counci I meeting, rm 202 cce. 
4:30pm seminar, "effect of chemotherapy on the growth of primary tumor and metasta ses of two transplantable agnogenic adenocarcinomas in lobund wistar rats" by dr. gary burleson, n.d. galvin aud. 
5:15 pm mass, for all world hunger coalition tasters, walsh chapel. everyone welcome. 
6:30pm meeting, aiesec, Iafortune. 
7:30pm  lecture,  transcendental  meditation  program.  109  
o'shag.  
7:30 &  

10 pm film, "Day for night" eng. a_ud. tickets $1 
7:30pm american scene, "the energy and food crisis" by prof. walter corui, indiana univ., bloomington. carroll hall. 
basketball, cal. state poly at n. d. ace8 pm 
8 pm lecture, "the social control of market power" by dr. willard f. mueller. rm. 122, hayes healy. 
8 pm perspective lecture series, "vagueness and precision" by israel scheffler. galvin aud. 
concert, adrian bryttan, violinist. lib. aud.
8:15pm 

concert, jazz in the nazz, 3 o'clock combo, 1 o'clock
9:30pm 

combo and tuesday night big band. basement of 
Iafortune. 

, _______...-...':.·---•·,;,·.;.·_....,....._ .....................,.,__;.·o.·..._,. 





Senior Class Fellow chairman calls for enthusiastic response 
given to an individual who the class personality of the recipient. Past by Val ZW'bUs feels has performed some worthy fellows include Senator Eugene Executive Editor endeavor of social merit. McCarthy, Rev. Robert Griffin, Ara The criteria for this year's fellow Parseghian, Congressman Allan 
Nominations for Senior Class was determined at an open meeting Lowenstein, and Rocky Blier. Fellow open today and will conti­held Nov. 25. The nominee must Seniors may nominate a Fellow nue until Dec. 8, according to have done something significant in by dropping off his name and Senior Class Fellow Chairman Ron his or her field, and their lifestyles phone number, the nominee's Hathaway. and accomplishments should em­name and accomplishments, and 
Any senior can nominate an body the "Notre Dame" spirit. It five co-signers, at the collection individual prominent in the fields was stressed that the Senior Fellow boxes in the North and South of science, entertainment, litera­Award is not an honorary doctor­Dining Halls, in the Huddle, or on ture, sports, news media or politics ate. Personality, interest, enthu­the second floor or the library. to represent this year's senior siasm and personableness are all Nominations will also be accepted class. part of the award. at Senior Bar both Wednesday 
The Senior Fellow Award has Traditionally the Fellow attends nights. been a tradition at Notre Dame a weekend of activities in the Letters will be given to all since 1969. It is an award annually spring that centers around the seniors tonight with all pertinent 
information and ballots. Off­campus students may pick up a form in the Tom Dooley Room of La

Safe-deposit boxes rifled 
Fortune. Any Senior may phone in a nomination and the information


in $5 million Milan robbery 
requested by calling 8288, 8788, or 3700 between 6 and 8 p.m. anyMILAN, Italy AP -Burglars who The bank doors were found weekday through Dec. 8.

stole an estimated $5 million to $6 undamged when employes reopen­On Dec. 9, the Senior Fellowmillion in gold jewels and money ed the bank Monday, leading police Committee will select a manage­from safe-deposit boxes at a Milan to speculate that the gang had able group of nominees that meetbank had their own generator to duplicate keys. 
the criteria, and they will beprovide lighting and to power ''The thieves must have spent printed in The Observer. Then anelectric drills, police said yester­several hours inside as they left open forum will be held for anyone

day. behind empty bottles and partly wanting to add or delete persons"The underworld is increasingly eaten sandwiches. They acted at from the list. Hathaway noted that resorting to technologically ad­ease," said Chidt Pagnozzi. 
a strong group will be needed tovanced equipment against which Investigators said the burglars support any additional candidatestraditional anti-theft devices are left no fire clues in what could be at this time. Next, personal lettersuseless,'' said Police Chief Umber-the largest bank theft ever in Italy. 

will be sent out to the nominees to

to Pagnozzi. ' "We can only hope that a see if they can attend if elected.
The burglars believed to number member of the gang takes a false Finally, there will be anotherbetween six and ten, broke into the step," said one investigator. 
election of those who accept to beLombardy Province Savings Bank Most of the box holders will get the Senior Class Fellows of 1977. 

over the weekend and looted about little compensation as the bank had Last year 55 people were nomi­450 safe-deposit boxes. Police said each box insured for only $1,200. 
nated. Hathaway considers this athey got through the bank's outer Only a few customers had insured small response and added "I woulddoors, possibly with duplicate keys, the contents for larger amounts like to see alot more enthusiasm.

then used blow torches and drills to because it involves a lot of red tape, Every nomination will be seriouslyget into the armored room. A including frequent checks by a considered."
generator was among things left at ·notary, bank sources said. the site. Bank officials estimated the value of the haul at $5 million to $6 
LJ..J 

million. 
I

"The loot could be higher. But we 
DELICATE 

wiii never know for sure. Contents 
1­
NO

of boxes are secret and many 

BALANCE 

customers will never disclose what 
Edward Albee's portrait

they have lost," said Giorgio 
of disintegrating Jove.

Bassetti, a bank officer. 
SMC

Two similarly audacious raids 
Dec. 3,4,9, 10,11 

were made on safe-deposit vaults 


THEATRE 
atS:OO p.m.

of branches of a French bank last 
O'Laughlin All seats $2.50

summer in Nice and Paris. What 
($2 Std-Fac-Staff)

has been dubbed the "sewer 


Auditorium 

Alone: 284-416 7 sewers of Nice in rafts in mid-July and tunneled into the vault, then spent a weekend rifling an estima­gang" made its way through the 
*******************~ 
ted $8 million to $10 million worth *Cinema 77 presents ~ of cash and valuables. r 
A month later, a gang used the * Francois Truffaut's ~ same technique to take about $5 million from safe-deposit boxes at 



~ Day for Night ~ 
the Societe Generale branch on the lie St. Louis in Paris. It was a mystery how the thieves 
**Tuesday & Wednesday Nov. 30 Dec. 1Jt~ 
entered the Milan bank, known in Italian as the Cass di Risparmio 
~ 7:30 & 10:00. pm Admission $1.00 lfo
delle Provincie Lombarde, and how they remained unnoticed during what must have been a long sta,y. '
* Engineering Auditorium 
*The Observer 
******************** 
-

Night Editor: joe Bauer Asst. Night Editor: Frank L. Kebe, Jr. Editorial Layout: john Murphy Sports Layout: Ray O'Brien Typists: Mel Celeste, joan Martel, Martha Fanning, Anne Giere Night Controller and Fatigued Person: Don Roos Day Editor~ Gill Copy Reader: Pat Cole Ad Layout: Pat Russell Photographer: Leo Hansen 
J 

_Artist: John Murphy _
l 
The Observer IS published Mondaythrough Friday and weekly dunng the summPr session, except during the exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by students of the University of Notre Dame and St Mary's College Subscriptions 
AN X-RATED MUSICAL COMEDY 

may be purchased for $20 per year ($10 per semester) from The Obser­ver, Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 Second class postage paid, 
Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. The Observer is a member of the 
Associated Press All reproduction 
. 
rights .i!r.~reserved~. . , 


it 



-

~--~ 
Roemer regrets inherent 


inconsistencies 
[continued from page 1] 
direct violations of University regu­
lations to his office. 
In answer to another question, 
Roemer praised the performance of 
Student Government Jucidial Co­
ordinator Bobe Bode, who accord­
ing to the dean serves as "attorney 
for undergraduate students," as 
specified in duLac. "He's done a 
conscientious job of finding out 
what's going on," he said. 
Defends use of waiver 
Roemer also discussed the numerous complaints and negative publicity aimed at him concerning recent controversial decisions he has issued. 
Citing "the waiver that has caused so much difficulty," Roemer remarked that it woulrt be "unfair not to reduce to writing what's going on at that time." He noted the drawbacks of an oral summary of the facts before ren­dering a decision. 
In his position as dean of students, Roemer explained that he receives considerable feedback from students and administrators. 
He related that a professionally embarassing episode had occurred when the Most. Rev. William McManus, bishop of the diocese which includes Fort Wayne and South Bend, had attempted to drive on campus to celebrate mass last week. Security, which falls under the jurisdiction of the dean of students, refused to admit the bishop, who did not identify him­self, and directed him to park at Stepan Center. According to Roemer, McManus "got his crozier and bags," and walked to Sacred Heart Church. 
"It's a real tribute to the kind of 
guy he is that he would do that," 
said Roemer. 

HPC Chairman J. P. Russell remarked after the meeting that ·the dean's appearance was "valu­
able for the hall presidents." 
"He explained-a lot of ambigu­ous things that are quietly assumed by the students," said Russell, who added that he hoped the council members would return to their halls with this information. 
Also in attendance at last night's meeting was Student Union Direc­tor Ken· Ricci, who outlined a new program which would allow halls to cosponsor events with his organiza­tion. 
Ricci indicated that the Student 
Union is presently undergoing 
re-evaluation of its operations, and 
hopes to "better coordinate" their 
activities with those of the halls. 
"In this reorganization, we're 
freeing up some money from 
events that we feel are no longer 
useful," said Ricci. "We're willing 
to cosponsor events with the 
halls." 


McKeown 
presents bargaining bill 
Dr. Michael D. McKeown;·-direc­
tor of higher education for the 
Indiana Stat~ Teachers Associa­
tion, has presented to Senator 
Robert Kovach (D) of Mishawaka, a 
bill designed to secure the right to 
bargain collectively for professors 
in Indiana's public colleges and 
universities. 
The bill. which Kovach has 
pledged to consider seriously and 
perhaps sponsor, calls for secret 
ballot representation elections, 
good faith negotiations between 
trustees and professors and bin­
ding arbitration in cases of com­
plete impasse. 
McKeown said the new higher 
education bargaining bill is the 
product of a careful study of similar 
statutes in twenty-four other states 
and will "in the final analysis rank 
with the best of them.. " "' . 

--~-----~-----­



Demeter discusses burglary prevention 
by Chris Smith Asst. Managing Editor 
Sgt. Denny Demeter of the South Bend Police advised a group ot students about preventing burgla­ries last night at the Northeast Neighborhood Community Center. 
The students who attended the meeting learned the basic mea­sures recommended by the police to discourage the most common type of burglar, the young ama­teur. 
"People often say that burglars will get in if they want to," Sgt. Demeter said, ''but this is simply not true." Because 85 percent of the burglars are between 16~ and 22 years old. and inexperienced, he explained, most of them are ner­vous and can be scared away by a few simple precautions. 
The most common way that a burglar enters a house, according to Demeter, is by breaking glass in a door or window, then unlocking and opening it. The breaking glass makes noise and is likely to upset the burglar. Therefore, if the burglar is unable to open the windows and doors. he will tend to be scared away to find another house that is easier to enter. 
Demeter recommended that stu­dents follow the "systems approach" to protecting their house. In other words, different procedures should be combined to protect a house. 
The one-inch dead bolt, double cylinder lock is the best means of securing doors. This type of lock can be locked and unlocked from either side of the door only with a key. The bolt of the lock penetrates the door frame by a full inch. The only way a burglar can use the door is by breaking it down. Sgt. Demeter indicated that this takes time and makes noise, and is likely 
UNICEF 
Xmas cards 

on sale 
UNICEF Christmas cards are on sale in the lobby of the Memorial Library weekdays until Friday, Dec. 10, from 9:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. 
Included in the sale will be calendars and gifts. All proceeds will help UNICEF provide urgently needed food, medicine, equipment and school supplies (or children iq over 100\countri~s. · · · ' 
• ' . • ' '. ~ " ~ " ' :0 ·', )-;·~ 

Wednesday, December 1, 1976 the observer 
3 


Academic Council meets · to consider morning exams 
1 
to upset the burglar. 
Windows can be painted or nailed shut, or Demeter suggests, they can be pinned shut. This involves drilling a small hole through the wooden frames around both panes of a window. A nail inserted into the hole will then secure the window and is incon­spicuous enough that it can not be seen. 
Darlene Palma, associate direc­tor of off-campus housing was at the meeting and advised that shrubbery be kept trimmed to a height of no more than two feet. This eliminates a possible hiding place where a burglar may break in unnoticed. 
Demeter added that further pro­tection is possible if lights placed high off the ground illuminate a house. "A burglar is more likely to rob a poorly lit house," he said. 
He also suggested that lights inside the house be left on when no one is home. 
"Every precaution is a further deterent," Demeter said, "and 

TAKE THE QUALIFYING EXAMINATION WITH NO OBU­GATION FIND OUT IF YOU CAN LEAD THE FINEST THE THE OFFICER SELECTION TEAM IS INTERVIEWING CANDIDATES FOR AN OFFICER'S COMMISSION IN THE UNITED STATES MARINE CORPS ON CAMPUS...'LA FORTUNE STUDENT CENTER t AM to 4 PM NOV. 
30-DEC.l .. 
' . 
by Jack C. Sllhavy Staff Reporter 
The Academic Council will meet tomorrow to consider the Faculty Senate resolution to suspend the 8 
a.m. exam policy until a "compre­hensive factual study of affected faculty and student reaction'' to the policy can be made. 
University Provost F. James T. Burtchaell originally initiated this policy to free students' evenings for study and campus activities. The plan has recently come under heavy fire from both faculty and students. 
In a unanimous decision on Oct. 7, the Faculty Senate agreed that the practice should be suspended until the issue could be observed from student and faculty points of view. 
Academic Code Revised? 
Also on tomorrow's Academic council agenda is the consideration of a recommended revision of the University Academic Code. 
The proposal aims at making a student more aware of individual grade deficiencies and of correcting action early enough to graduate on time. 
This Academic Code proposal points to the conflict between academic good standing being on the basis of semester averages while the graduation requirements are on the basis of University average of 2.000. The revision would put good standing also in reference to University averages. 
In addition to these two contro­versial issues, the Academic Coun­cil is scheduled to consider the Faculty Senate proposal to add thre members to that body. The council will also elect five members to its Executive Committee. 
The Exe~utive Committee de­cides what proposals or issues will be put on the agenda for discussion by the Council. 
Interesting debate 
"It's going to be a very interes­ting debate and meeting in gener­al," commented Pat Tack, academ­ic commissioner of Student Govern­ment and academic council mem­ber. "This should be one of the best meetings of the year." 
Tack stated that both the 8 a.m. exam issue and the Academic Code change proposal are strongly con­tested. Sht said most of the Administration were probably bac­kers of 8 a.m. exams while students would be likely to support their abolishment. Most faculty arc not affected by the policy, she added. 
When the Faculty Senate propo­sal was made. many of its members claimed the Prov~st's policy was confusing because they did not know if it was restricted to dcpart­mcntals or if it extended to all classes and exams formerl\· held in the evenings. ­
Other professors complained that the 8 a.m. classes overlapped with classes or other exams. 
Tracy Kee, president of Farley Hall, is presently conducting a survey of student reactions. She told that without all the results compiled it appears that thereis no clear-cut student view. Opinions vary cosiderably and many stu­dents are indifferent. 
The Academic Code proposal will be challenged because the motiva­tion behind it is not clear to most people, Tack stated. 





Youcantoo! 
CaD: (219)234·3515
·What yooliear may Change your life' 

'*The Observer an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's 
The Observer is published by students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions and letters are the views of their authors Column space is available to all members of the community, and letters are encouraged to promote the free expression of varying opinions on campus. 
Business Manager Tom Fronczak Advertising Manager Mike Miller Photo Editor Tony Chifari Production Manager Martha L. Fanning 
Box Q, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556...., Phones: (219) 283-8661 [NO] (219) 284-5365 [SMC] 
EDITORIAL BOARD Thomas O'Neil Editor-in-Chief Dan Sanchez Managing Editor Chris Smith Asst. Managing Ed. 
Gregg Bangs Executive Editor Val Zurblis Executive Editor Pat Hanifin Editorial Editor Bob Mader Exec. News Editor 
Maureen Flynn Campus Editor Marti Hogan St. Mary's Editor Don Reimer Copy Editor Tim O'Reiley Features Editor Fred Herbst Sports Editor 
Wednesday, December 1, 1976 


In Defense of Idealism 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii~d oug aIIen & jack d 'aurora 
In regard to Mr. Majuka's letter 

in the Nov. 23 issue of the 
Observer, certain faults are found 
in the contentions he makes in that 
Ie~ter. It appears that Majuka, 
though apparently cognizant of the 
problem of world hunger, does not 
clearly see what the Hunger Coali­
tion is trying to accomplish, nor is 
he himself aware of the signifi­
cance of pragmatic idealism-­
through which the Coalition func­
tions. 
To begin with, Majuka criticizes 

the fact that Congress has recog­
nized the right of every individual 
to a nutritionally adequate diet, on 
the basis that it is, apparently to 
him. but a mere lofty aspiration, a 
notion to be contrived by idle 
dreamers. 
This starting point for the recog­nition of world starvation is only a senseless thought of no pragmatic value, implies Majuka, who then tries to turn the "Right to Food" resolution into a ludicrous proposi­tion by enumerating several other resolutions that the U.S. should adhere to, resolutions that are certainly impossible to become reality in the near future (believe us, if there was a way to guarantee happiness for everyone in the world, as Majuka suggests, we'd be all for it . 
If we actually understand what the resolution in question stands for. it would seem impossible to be able to find fault with it. The foundation behind the Coalition is simply that every person in the world, by mere virtue of his humanity, is entitled to a nutrition­ally adequate diet. The Coalition in trying to make such a goal reality, tries to involve the ND-SMC com­munity in its work. 
In an attempt to involve the whole U.S. in this project, a letter drive was carried on last year (through the organization Bread for the World) to implore Congress to accept th~elief that no one in the world should have to starve to 
death. The result was that Cong­
ress recognized the idea through its 
formulation of the "Right to Food" 
resolution. 

Just as every individual who contributes to the Coalition does so through an adherence to such a belief, it was felt that Congress must also proclaim such a belief, in a very visible way (a formal resolution} if it is to later act in more tangible ways in the elimina­tion of hunger. Such a resolution had to be initiated in order to provide the intellectual framework for Congress to handle the very concrete idea of a grain reserve-­the subject of the second national letter drive. 
Now as to the grain reserve, Majuka contends that the distribu­tion of the grain will be problemat­ic, so problematic, in fact, that Majuka envisions another Vietnam resulting from this altruistic ven­ture (a slight stretch of the imagin­ation we would have to contend). Majuka questions as to how the grain will be distributed--by an international system or by individu­al governments. Majuka quickly pawns off the fin,t alternative as resulting in a "United Nations for Food," as if there were something inherently sinister in an internaj­tional cooperative venture. Yet, how else could equity and stability be maintained? 
Majuka then jumps to the second alternative, suggesting that inade­quacies and inequities would arise, thereby provoking the direct inter­vention by governments (that is, another Vietnam). We can quickly resolve such fears by simply posing the question, "Whoever suggested that grain distribution be handled unilaterally?'' 
As a last point of contention, Majuka implies that through the "Right ~o Food" resolution and the formulation of a national grain reserve, the U.S. would be incorpo­rating very unstable propositions in its foreign policy. It's hard to see as precarious, the fact that Cong­ress has recognized the problem of world hunger and is called on to initiate a grain reserve to help defeat the problem, especially when a prime objective of the grain reserve is that other countries will follow suit with similar reserves. 
Majuka contends that such an attempt to influence the world is wrong: "To enlarge the wrongs of the U.S. policy so as to constitute world policy merely multiplies the evils.'' The essential question here is how can such an analysis be accurate, especially when those to benefit are the starving masses of the entire world. 
Lastly. in one regard we have to agree with Majuka. Believing that every single individual has a right to eat an adequate diet is a lofty aspiration, in fact, it's a damn lofty aspiration, if not a dream. But we have to dream. Either we dream or we go nowhere in life and stagnate. 
If people didn't dream, how many parents would be able to summon the close to $20,000 necessary to send their children to this institu­tion? Better yet, if people didn't dream how could Martin Luther King have hoped that something like the Civil Rights Act of 1964 would be enacted? 
Majuka likens this idealism to 
Don  Quixote,  who,  though  well  
intentioned, erringly  causes  more  
harm  than  good.  Majuka,  

. however fails to carry out his analogy to completion, as it is Quixote who gallantly charges out singlehandedly to right the wrongs of the world and eliminate injus­tice. 
The question we have to ask ourselves is: "Is recoginzing then rectifying the problem of world hunger a solvable, albeit difficult. proposition or something so far beyond the realm of reality that we should just retreat into the solitude of our own comfort and let 460 million wretched souls suffer with­out interference?" 
DOONESBURY 
11/l.. SIIN/JtRSON, 

;i
YaJn-Bl38V ASSISTANT 

64~E!l. HERE AT mE MillE HOUSEl»!-... IN6 mE E/6f.IT Y&M'S 1 ~1111' 
8. J. E/){J'f tvA5 HEAP If:::= ~ 71/t/P. HO«< 00 YOU 
-FEEt ABOUT HIS LE/IVIN6? 
/ 
by Garry Trudeau 
WElL, P&RSONAUY, £[), I'M ~ 
REAL SO!?l<Y 70 SEE HIM 60. 
8. J. IJN/JCRSTOOO THATA 
R./JIA/ER THm mr60oo /.{)()KB)t300IJ, 50 HE WENT '~ 7() GREATPAINS 70 KEEP q[/J.~ 
UP MORALEANI? 600// HIJ-~ MOR tJV THE 61<01JNPS. j" 
Mil.. NIXON ORJl!R£1) 
lHM CUT OOIUN, OF (l)(JRS£, BUT TIE GAR1JEN WA5 IN 5TITCHES FOI?. 
/A/E£1(5/
f 1-/eE,f./e&!
711AT'S 6REAT' 


seriously, folks~!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~ 




Catering to the New Elite 
----------~art bu c hwaI d 
WASHINGTON 1Washington is in 
a terrible tizzy. Nobody has any 
idea who anybody is and there is 
nothing that upsets this town more 
than not knowing who is in charge. 
It's gotten so ,bad that anyone 
who has anything near to a 
Southern accent is treated with 
deference and respect, just on the 
off chance he might be a member of 
the Carter transition team. 

A friend of mine told me what 
happened in his federal building 
the other day. A young man 
wearing jeans, boots and a blue 
denim jacket walked into the 
building chewing on a piece of 
straw. 

The alert guard at the desk 
immediately called upstairs. "I 
think it's one of 'them" 

"How do you know?" the man 
on the tenth floor demanded. 
"He's looking around, and he's 
writing names down off the list of 
people in the building." 

Oh, my gosh," the man on the 
tenth floor said. "I didn't think 
they'd get to us this early. I 
thought they wouiQ deal with State Treasury and Defense first.'' 
"You can't tell about that guy 
Carter," the guard said. "He 
might even show up here himself." 
"Well, send the man up. Just 
don't let him stand in the lobby." 
The guard went over to the boy 
in the jeans. "The man wants to 
see you." 
"What man?" 

"You mean he ain't going to be 
the man any more?" 

"I don't know what you're talking about,'' the boy in the jeans said. 
The guard winked at him. "I dig 
you, man. But I'm civil service so I 
got nothing to worry about. The 
man on the tenth floor, he's a Ford 
appointee, but he's hoping you'll 
keep him on." 

"Mister, I don't have no idea what you're saying. Ah'm just looking for a job." 
"That's a good cover," the guarc. 
told him. "Say you're looking for a job and people will tell you what's really going on around here. Anyhow, the man on the tenth floor wants to see you." 
"Why does he want to see me? 
It says here 'Personnel' is on the 
seventh floor." 

"You have to go to the tenth 
floor. Please, sir, follow me." 

They arrived on the tenth floor 
and the man was waiting at the 
elevator with his staff. He shook 
the boy's hand vigorously. "Glad 
to have you on board, sir,'' the man 
said. "CARSTAIRS HERE IS MY 
RIGHT ARM. He's moved out of 
his office so you can use it during 
the transition." 

"That's mighty kind of him," 
the boy said. "I wasn't expectin' 
my own office this early in the 
game. I was willing to start on the 
ground floor." 

''Anything you need from the 
ground floor we'll bring up here to 
you. This is Miss Wedlock, Elfin's 
secretary. She's been assigned to 
you .. Just tell her what you need 
and it's yours." 

"Could someone get me a Coke?" Within two minutes five people were giving the boy Cokes. 
The man said, "Now I want you to know we're not making any major decisions until President Carter takes his oath of office." 
"That's damned decent of you," the boy said, drinking one of his Cokes. 
"We want this transition to be a 
smooth one. Would you like to see 
the budget for 1977?" 

"Not particularly. I thought I'd start in the mailroom." 
"I'd like to explain about the mailroom foul-up," the man said. "We put in this $400,000 mail sorter, but because GSA changed the size of our forms from an S18 to a W16 we had to change the envelopes, and then make modifi­cations in the mail sorter of $300,000. But it wasn't our fault. Here is all the correspondence on it. You'll see the overrun was not made by our department.'' 
The boy said, "You want me to read all this correspondence?" "No sir. We can get someone to read it for you." "Good idea. What time can you go to lunch around here?" 
"It's ready now, sir. Why don't we go into the executive dining room?" 


Wednesday, December 1,.1976 the observer 

Export program 'fumbling' according to Carter 

PLAINS, Ga. [AP]-President­elect Jimmy Carter, saying the government has had a "fumbling" export promotion program, called yesterday for an aggressive drive to boost farm exports to help the economy at home and build "a good base for permanent world peace." 
In a speech delivered by tele­phone to the New Orleans conven­tion of the Southern Seedmen's Association, Carter noted Mon­day's federal report that the nation had a foreign trade deficit for the fourth straight month. 
He said greater coordination is needed among government, agri­culture, business and labor to boost sales overseas. 
The Commerce Department re­. ported Monday that the United States imported $4.1 billion more james Balkcom spoke in the library Auditorium last night about his experiences fighting the Ku than it exported during the first 10 Klux Klan. He has spent 25 years opposing them in various ways, including infiltration of their months of 1976. It said foreign meetings. [photo by leo Hansen] trade was $695.9 million in deficit 
in October--the ninth month with a deficit this year. May was the only month with a

Klan fighter relates experiences 
foreign trade surplus. 
Mike Moses Staff Reporter 

James Balkcom, an opponent of the Ku Klux Klan for the past 25 years, spoke to over 100 students last night in the library auditorium, about his experiences in fighting the Klan. 
The owner of a small-town movie theatre in Georgia during the 1950's, Balkcom was intimidated by the Klan for allowing blacks into his theater. "One night I had a visitor who came back during intermission and told me that the Klan would like to sit, in a body, in my theater." 
After another threat, Klansmen began riding into town on the weekends, in large numbers. Finally, leaving his theater one night after closing time, Balkcom was met by hundreds of hooded figures. After being chased by the Klansmen, Balkcom escaped by hiding behind a church which, during the Civil War, had sheltered Sherman's troops in his march to the sea. 
In 1965, Balkcom told the House Committee on Un-American activi­ties of how he had clandestinely entered a large Klan meeting after donning their familiar robe and hood. There he acquired know­ledge of a Klan "training school of violence" where instructions were given on everything from the assembly of the M-1 rifle, to the fashioning of small bombs from 

AFROTC cadets take trip 
Fifty Notre Dame Air Force ROTC cadets. three staff officers, and four University faculty mem­bers will depart at 1 p.m. today from the Michiana Regional Air­port for a visit to Patrick Air Force Base. Florida. 
The trip is part of the AFROTC Base Visitation Program. The program is designed to introduce cadets to the day-to-day activities at a typical Air Force installation. 
While at Patrick. near Cocoa Beach, Fla .. the cadets will tour the 
U.S. Air Force Eastern Test Range at Cape Canavaral and the Ken­nedy Space Center Complex. Several of the cadets will be allowed to fly in an 0-2 "Skymas­ter' · aircraft on a forward air control operational mission. 
Notre Dame faculty members participating in· the trip include Dean Richard J. Thompson and Professors Alan Dowty, Robert A. Leader. and Joseph C. Sequin. 
According to AFROTC detach­ment officers. base visits such as this offer the cadets a unique opportunity to view Air Force operations at the grass-roots level. It also allows them to meet and talk to active duty Air Force officers in career fields in which the cadets are interested so that they can best determine what careers they would like to pursue after they enter the 
Air Force. 
Violin recital 

Adrian Bryttan, an assistant pro­fessor of music at Notre Dame, will perform a violin solo Wednesday, Dec. 1 at 8:15 in the Library Auditorium. William Cerny, chair­man of the busic department. will accompany Bryttan on the piano. 
Bryttan, also the concert mana­ger for the South Bend symphony. will perform compostions by Dvor­ak, Tartini, Ravel and others. There will be no admission charge for the event. 


Carter's call for more farm 
dynamite. 
exports is similar to his recommen­dation during the campaign that Ray--not alone "we should have a program of 'active salesmanship' to promoteToward the end of his informal the sale of American agriculturaltalk, Balkcom claimed to have commodities, and there should be information pertaining to the death strong sales efforts on the part of of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. He temporary overproduction." 
said that he does not believe James During the campaign, Carter Earl Ray was totally responsible for promised that "vigorous, constant King's assassination. "I think and aggressive efforts to build someday it's going to come out that dependable world markets will be a the F.B.I. had a large part to play key feature of our program."
in the death of Dr. King." 
In his speech today, Carter said Balkcom said that it is possible that in Eastern Europe, in the he may be testifying before the Soviet Union and even in such a 
House Committee investigating tiny country as Bulgaria those King's assassination. When asked promoting exports"speak with one by someone in the audience what -voice"--which he contrast6{1 with information he had, Balkcom said 
what he termed the often-fu~blingthat he was not at liberty to divulge 
efforts of this country. 

it. 
Greater farm exports, Carter Balkcom has also appeared on said. not only would help the the NBC "Today Show," as well as domestic economy but would ''helpCBS' award-winning documentary. 
insure peaceful relations" with "The Invisible Empire." 
other countries. 
Speaking with pride of his own role as a seedman--about 10 per cent of the peanut crop he proces­ses goes into certified seeds--Car ter said, "It's been a long time since we've had a full-time farmer in the White House." 
He guessed That Thomas Jeffer­son might come closest to being the most recent. However, Joseph Nathan Kane, an authority on presidents. lists J cfferson as a lawyer and writer. Kane says the most recent farmer president was George Washington, whom he describes as a surveyor and plan­ter. 
Promising to work closely with agricultural interests and expres­sing a com iction that what i~ good for farmers is good for con~umcr-. in the long run. Carter said he i'> seeking a secretary of agriculture with on-the-farm experience. 
South Bend volunteers needed 
The Office of Volunteer Services 
is in need of students to fulfill the 
various requests volunteers from 
the South Bend community. These 
volunteer opportunities include: 
-tutoring a first grade girl in reading 
-tutoring a 20-year-old girl in accounting who attends Michiana College of Commerce 
-helping the YWCA with a Christmas party for their retarded girls club -helping the YWCA with their Inner City Basketball League as officials and scorekeepers -helping ·the Christ Child Center load a truck for their Christ Child Center load a truck for their Christ Child Bazaar on Friday, Dec. 3, from 8 to 11 a.m. 
Any students interested in fulfill­
ing any volunteer opportunity are 
welcome to stop by Volunteer 
Services at 1.5 LaFortune or call 
Joan Griffin or Pete Wolf at 7308. 

If you enjoy working with people; p on are looked to as a leader; have 




eop e 
a flair for organization, 
A Retail Maoagement Career Could Be For.YOU! 
OSCO Drug, a major retailer operating over 250 stores in 19 states. needs people to run things. Managers. Inquisitive. imaginative people who like people. and who are interested in decision-making responsibility, buying, marketing, merchandising and all the other aspects of retail store operations. 
We're large enough to offer you rapid advancement but we maintain the close-knit, small company approach to individual career development. Your future is not preprogrammed into the structure. You can expect change. growth. more change' 
If you'd like to learn more about how you can use your education and leadership skills in management, fill in the coupon and mail it to 
r--oi;ci;~;ic~~ue-R;~nini,C>sco·o~9i~c~i818-----------------------------------1 
1 Swift Drive, Oak Brook, Illinois 60621 
1 Name~-~-~_ 

I School Address Phone___ _ 
I 

I HomeAddress _ --~~--__Phone---~-­I School_ -----~-__ _____ Dateof Graduation ______ _ 

Major Please Check One Box: • Contact me for campus interviewing in Dec. 76 
~~~:~~e~~;::go i;De~~ber~or J~n~-ary-, ~~~---~--~ ~ like to arrange an Interview. Date preferred ___________ ~ ~--_____ _ Sprmg Grads, Be Sure To Sign Up At Your Placement Office For OSCO· Turnstyle Spring Interviews. 
L-------------------------~~-~!L0~R~~~ai~t~Q~~W--------------------~----------~ 

! I 
I 
t 
t 
! I 
I 
the observer Wednesday, December 1, 1976 
6 

Hawaiian Renaissance 

Native Hawaiians seek change in image 
byMikeYuen Pacific News Service 
Like American Indians, native 
Hawaiians regard their history 
since the coming of the white man 
as the story of strangers in their 
midst gaining control of the bounty 
of their land -and depriving them 
of their identity and self-esteem. 
Once. native Hawaiians, descen­
dants of the original Polynesian 
settlers here, nearly succumbed to 
white man's diseases. Now, they 
are replenishing not only their 
number but their sense of ethnic 
pride -which they hope will lead to 
regaining the fruits of their land. 
The Hawaiian ethnic pride move­
ment -known simply as the 
Hawaiian Movement or the 
"Hawaiian Renaissance" -is 
rooted in increased self-respect for 
the spirit and traditions of being 
Hawaiian. 
And out of this growing "con­sciousization". Hawaiian Move­ment leaders believe. will come practical benefits as well. "Due to a resurgence of pride in being Hawaiian, more has happened socially, politically and culturally in the Hawaiian community during the past five years than happened during the past five years than 
·happened during the previous SO", 
says a high-ranking Hawaii judicial 
official. 
Native Hawaiians now occupy the bottom rung of Hawaii's socio­economic ladder. They account for 
about half of all welfare recipients, 
about half of the adult jail popula­
tion and about 60 percent of the 
juvenile correctional inmates. 
Less than 15 percent of the 
native Hawaiians ever graduate 
from high school. And native 

Hawaiians own just one percent of 
the state's privately owned land. 
"I grew up with the idea that 
Hawaiians are lazy and non­
achievers," says Davianna 
McGregor, a young Hawaiian 
teaching in the University of 
Hawaii's ethnic studies program. 
"I want to combat that idea." 
Today, "pure" and part Hawaiians are the fastest-growing ethnic group in the state -now numbering 150,000 or about 19 percent of the population -because of highly productive outmarrying. 
Of these 150,000, only 50,000 have one-quarter or more Hawaiian blood. But part-Hawaiians usually consider themselves more Hawaiian than whatever their other ethnic derivations. 
The past five years have seen a rebirth of native Hawaiian lan­guage, arts, music and crafts. At the University of Hawaii, for example, recent enrollments have zoomed in Hawaiian language classes. 
Hawaiian studies are still ham­pered by inadequate finding and a shortage of qualified instructors. however. "The educational system never questions the support of distant foreign languages such as Russian and German," says Uni­versity of Hawaii language in­structor Larry Kimura. "But it always questions Hawaiian." Kimura is one-fourth Hawaiian. 
Land claims 
Hawaiian activists have concen­
trated their energies on what they 
regard as the true embodiment of 
their people -the land. 
"So much in Hawaiian culture 
centers on aina (land) and the spirit 
of the land," savs Walter Ritte, a 
30-year old Hawaiian activist. 
"The kupunas (old people) 
began telling up the legends con­
nected to the land, and teaching us 
its value. Everything Hawaiian 
was dissipating and it occurred to us 
that any regeneration would have 
to be through the land." 
Ritte recently led the occupation of Kahoolawe, a small and barren island in the Hawaiian chain, which is used as a bombing range for the 
U.S. Navy. Activist Hawaiians want the island returned to civilian use and contend that the Navy has even marked forgotten ancient Hawaiian temples as bombing sites. 
On the island of Molokai, the Hui Alaloa (Group of the Long Trails) has challenged the powerful Molo­kai Ranch Co.'s policy offorbidding public right-of-way to the sea on old Hawaiian trails that cut across. the ranch's property. 
According to Hui Alaloa, the 
18th-century Law of the Splintered 
Paddle protects the rights of the 
common people to use the 
Hawaiian trails. 
And in the land battle with the 
highest stakes, the 30,000-strong 
Aloha Assn. is seeking reparations 
from Congress for Hawaiian lands 
taken by the U.S. after the over­
throw of the monarchy. 
Aloha's demands include a 
settlement of $1 billion, the control 
of 2.5 million acres of land -now 
valued at $34 biooion -originally 
owned by the monarchy and the 
creation of a Hawaiian native 
corporation to administer the bene­
fits of the settlement for the 
Hawaiians. 
Says Arthur Kinney. 72, presi­
dent of Aloha: "Hawaiians would 
rather have the land than the 
money. They can relate better to 
land than money." 
Strangers in their own land 
The Hawaiian Movement was born in 1970-71 in Kalama Valley. 15 miles east of Honolulu, where the Bernice Pauhai Bishop Estate evicted valley residents to make way for a housing development. 
As a result, the Hawaiian com­munity found itself caught in a Catch-22 situation: The Bishop Estate was evicting valley resi­dents, who were mostly Hawaiians, from its land to generate money for 
Kamehameha 'School -an insti­
tution for Hawaiian children and 
sole beneficiary of the estate. 
Then, in June 1971, with the 
memory of Kalama Valley still 
fresh, the Hawaiian community 
voiced a storm of indignation over 
the appointment of a Japanese­
American to fill a vacancy of the 
Bishop Estate. 
Hawaiians contended the spot 
should have gone to someone ot 
Hawaiian blood who understood 
first-hand the needs of Hawaiian 
people. 
A Hawaiian community leader, the Rev. Abraham Akaka, con­cluded then that his people had become "strangers in their own land". 
Their history bears this out: There were an estimated 300,000 native Hawaiians when Capt. James Cook arrived in 1778. By 1893-when a handful of Americans linked to the Hawaiian sugar industry overthrew the Hawaiian monarchy -Hawaiians numbered about 40.000, most of whom were only part Hawaiian. The white man's diseases had taken their toll. 
Gradually, the haoles (Hawaiian for whites, pronounced "howlies") most with missionary or trading backgrounds, gained control of Hawaii's land, often through man­ipulation and deceit. 
Later, upwardly mobile Chinese and Japanese immigrants rose from plantation laborers to become the well-heeled bourgeosie of present-day Hawaii. 


WNDU-TV show receives award 
The Chicago International Film Festival has awarded WNDU-TV's "Beyond Our Control" its Grand Prix--a Gold Hugo--in the Televis­ion category of its Twelfth Annual Competition. 
The Junior Achievement Televis­ion Company. producers of "Be­yond Our Control." were compe­ting with professionally-produced programs from other local stations and major networks. 
Representatives of the program were in Chicago this weekend to accept the top award of the Festival on the stage of the Biograph Theatre at the Festival's annual Awards Presentation. 
The Chicago International Film Festival. ·one of the nation's most prestigious; annually attracts films 
friday. [Photo by leo Hansen] 
Store bikes 

in stadium 

A winter bike storage will be supervised by Security once again this year. Paul McDonnell and Bob Ellis, two Notre Dame students, are in charge of the program. 
Students wishing to register their bikes should bring them to the football stadium at Gate 14, on Friday, Dec. 3, between 1-4:30 
p.m. or on Monday, Dec. 6, between 2:30-4:30 p.m. 
In order to store a bike, the bike must be registered with Security. If the bike is already registered, there is no charge for the winter storage. 
However, if the bike has not been registered with Security, the student will have to register his bike when he brings the bike to the stadium for storage. 
In order to register the bike, the ~tudent should have: 
-the serial nember of the bike. 
-his social security number. 

-any type of hometown registra­don (or license) for the bike. -a one dollar fee for the registra­:ion. 
If anyone has questions, they can ~ontact either Bob Ellis or Paul \1cDonnell ~fter 4 p.m. at 3134. 
------------~-----------, 

KEN'S DEN 
HAIR STYLING -­MEN &WOMEN ACROSS FROM 1 00 CENTER {LINCOLNWAY WEST IN MISHAWAKA) 
PHONE 255-6500 
APPOINTMENTS PREFERRED 

. ~ . .' . " ... ' ' '\ \ ' \ \ \ " \ ,· ' \ \ \. \ \ \ 
from throughout the world, entered for competition in categories such as Features, Short Subjects, Anim­ation and Documentary. The, Television category judges entries from networks and local stations, awarding · various certificates of merit. plaques. and Bronze, Silver and Gold "Hugo Awards." 
The Gold "Hugo", a symbolic statue encased in Plexiglas, is the Festiv!il's top award, reserved for the outstanding entries in each category. 
Accepting the award on behalf of WNDU-TV were advisers Dennis Laughlin and Dave Williams, and student representative~ Ellen A-

John Wahman 
Agent 

nd 



Diane Long 
· Agent 
kins and Dave Simkins. Presenting Festival Awards were the Pulitzer Prize-winning film critic Roger Ebert and film history writer Arthur Knight; Chicago commerci­al produc,er Ken Nordine hosted the ceremonies. 
"Beyond Our Control is current­ly at work at WNDU-TV, beginning production of its 1977 season, which debuts Saturday, Jan. 29 at 6:00p.m. on Channel 16. 
The award-winning special. a compilation of ··Beyond Our Con­trol's" best. \\ill be telecast on Sunday, Jan. 23 at 4:00 p.m., kicking off the show's Tenth Anni­versary Season. 
'Tt•araftt·r 't>ar.I "il'flll'Stl'r'aftl'r "it'mt•stt•r. tlw ( 'ollt·~t' \ Jastt•r from Fiddih 
l'nion I .ifl' lias het·n tlw most an·t·ptt'tl. mc•st popular plan on rampu"il'S all m t•r Anwrka. 
Find out\\In. 

Callthl' Fidelif\ l 'nion {'ollt.•gt•\la"itt.•r ~-idd Assodatt• m 'our area: 
915 E. Cedar South Bend, Ind. Phone 287-2327 Wednesday, December 1, 1976 

the observer 
7 






Irish icers trounce Bowling Green 
by Gregory Solman consin. Paul Clarke picked up two 
Sports W rlter goals and an assist, and Dukie 
Walsh had a goal and two assists to 
It may well have been close in lead the Irish route. the preseason battle between these Clark Hamilton, who scored a hat two clubs, but at the ACC last night trick last weekend, looked as if he the Irish had little trouble defeating was going to extend his scoring the Bowling Green Falcons 6-1 streak when he received a Kevin before a meager, yet enthusiastic Nugent centering pass right in crowd. front of the net. As it turned out, it 
John Peterson played a tine was merely the first test of what game in goal, stopping 31 Falcon would be a long night for AI drives. Lenny Moher didn't dress Sarachman, the Falcon net minder. for the game as he was shaken up At the other end of the ice, 
in last weekend's series at Wis-however, John Peterson was put to 
Cont :::·:·:·:·:::::::::::::-:-:-:-:-:·:·:·:::·:·:::::::::·:·:-:-:::·:-:-:-;:;:;:;:;:;.:-:·:·:·:·:·:-:-:-:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::·::::::;:;:;:;:;:;::::·:::·
• 


King of the hardcourt 
:;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=:=:=:::::::::::::::::::::::::::=:=:=:=:::::::::::::=:::::::=:=:=::::::::::::::::::::NO 7th 
But the Warriors will have a good season, because the less publicized players will have outstanding years. Butch Lee, who destroyed the U.S. Olympic team and Phil Ford with 35 points in the summer games for the Puerto Rican team (despite the fact he left the country three days after his birth), is the leading returning scorer. Bernard "Looney" Toone will finally be turned loose offensively after hitting 57 percent of his shots in limited action last year. Ulice Payne, Joe Montana's running-mate at guard in high school, may take Walton's spot. Jerome Whitehead, McGuire's "aircraft carrier," is a strong. underrated center, possibly the only center in the country who can compete with Benson physically. 
S. MICIDGAN -Many experts pick the Wolverines to take it all. The rationale seems to be that Indiana can't possibly repeat after losing four starters, three of which were among the top ten NBA draft selections. Michigan was the runner-up losing only a 6-2 starting forward, so they seem to be a likely successor. But, Johnny Orr's squad did lose seven games last season, and did not recruit anyone of consequence as the recruiti.ng strategy of the Wolves back-fired when Stuart House of Detroit departed for Washington State. Orr does have the quickest quard in America in Ricky Green, who was primarily responsible for ending Notre Dame's campaign three games early. Phil Hubbard, the only sophomore on our Olympic team, is a star of the future if not the present. But, he would be far more effective as a quick forward instead of his present center position. Steve Grote, a four year starter, is the hustling floor coach that provides Johnny Orr with the same assets Quinn Buckner gave Bobby Knight in his four seasons as the Hoosier's quarterback. 
6. 
INDIANA -The Hoosiers were 108-12 during the Buckner years. (Scott May and Bob Wilkerson played inter-hall their freshman years as they did not qualify for competition under an NCAA ruling that requires a scholar athlete to predict a 2.0 on the basis of his high school performance in the classroom.) Kent Benson is by far the best player in America. He and the coaching of Bobby Knight will carry the Hoosiers far, but the star system does not reach championship plateaus. The star system will get you as far as the second round of the NCAA tournament, but that's it. Knight had an excellent recruiting year, but some of his prize catches have been hit by injuries. Glen Grunwald, a 6-9 forward from Illinois, was expected to start immediately, but ran into knee problems. Mike Woodson of Indianapolis has performed the best of all the freshmen. He connected for 37 points in a recent scrimmage and 16 points vs. South Dakota Saturday. Mike Miday, Butch Carter and 6-10 center Derrick Holcomb, Benson's likely successor, will all play early and often. However, Indiana could be the San Francisco of 1976-77. 

7. 
NOTRE DAME-No one knows how good the Irish can be this year, but if Saturday morning is any indication of things to come "Digger" Phelps' squad will surprise a lot of people. Many feel the constant reliance on Dantley last season was a mistake. Batton, Knight, Williams, and Paterno all proved they can be relied upon this season after their fine performances in the Maryland cliff-hanger. 


The Irish could be compared with the Cleveland Cavaliers of the NBA. There does not appear to be one outstanding star on this year's team, but the combination of each player's assets makes for a winner. Rich Branning and Toby Knight provide instant offense off the bench a Ia Austin Carr and Campy Russell with the Cavaliers. Bill Hanzlik and Ray Martin also made major contributions last Saturday giving Notre Dame eight starters, basically. 
But Notre Dame's most important asset is their patience on offense and defense. Phelps has a disciplined, controlled offense, something the Indiana Hoosiers have used to rack-up over 60 regular season wins in a row. The Irish schedule is rough, however, and it will be difficult to retain a lofty rating, but by season's conclusion ND will once again gain a berth in the NCAA tournament. The Irish are hoping the Thursday night jinx will not strike again. 
8. 
LOUISVILLE-Denny Crum's Cardinals are another team with a lot of talent, but suffer from inconsistent performances. Wesley Cox is the Art Best (or should I say the old Art Best?) of college basketball. This 6-5 senior has all the tools to become a great player but only plays up to his abilities when he is motivated. Ricky Gallons is a 6-10 center with a fine outside touch, but is far from a rugged rebounder. The addition of Darrell Griffith, already a sixth team All-America selection by Street & Smith's Magazine, could give Louisville the added offensive and defensive explosions the squad needs. This team needs defense to best the Cincinnati Bearcats in the Metro-Seven. When the Cardinals meet UNLV on February 12 you'll need a computer to keep score. It will be like watching a handball match. ~ 

9. 
MARYLAND -The turtles of "Lefty" Driesell finished a "disappointing" 22-6 last season. They will be led by Steve "Bear" Sheppard who shot an incredible 58 percent last year. Junior College transfer Mike Davis, one of only a handful of JUCO's selected for an Olympic tryout, will help out the Terrapins in the middle. Brad Davis is a solid ball-handling guard, but is the second most overrated player in the country behind Bo Ellis. Jo Jo Hunter, who witnessed the Bookstore Finals last spring (and was apparently unimpressed) will see a lot of action as Davis' running mate once he gets over his knee problems. Despite Saturday's loss, the Terrapins are still a team to be reckoned with. 

10. 
CINCINNATI -This team came within a Toby Knight tip-in of advancing to the Midwest Regionals last season. They return everyone, including a helathy Steve Collier, who was the team's MVP as a freshman two years ago. Bob Miller, a 6-11 center, is the key to the season. The Bearcats play a tough schedule, but an impressive record will be academic if they can't win the ACC Formated Metro-Seven tournament at the 


season~s , • , # • ~ ~ , , ~ _ ... , ·,. •
conclusion., , ••.. , . , , , , f 
the test by Mike Hartman when he tried to jam the puck underneath his pads. Peterson was able to force a face-off, but seconds later, Hartman again picked on a Peter­son rebound and this time the puck bounded in for what was to be the Falcon's only goal of the night. 
Just thirteen seconds later, Dukie Walsh answered with an unassisted goal, as he found him­self open in front of the net. Walsh's first shot was stopped by Sarachman, but the Falcon net­minder left the rebound in front of the net and Walsh snapped it into the upper right hand corner to end the scoring in what eventuated into a slow period. 
Greg Meredith moved the puck beautifully while killing time in a shorthanded situation when Dukie Walsh collected the Irish's first penalty. Meredith set the tone for the night, as the penalty killing unit turned in an outstanding per­formance, holding the Falcons scoreless in nine penalty situations. 
In the second period, Notre Dame asserted itself along the boards and on the scoreboard. The Irish started off the four goal barrage on a powerplay. Jack Brownshidle, working the point, passed to Paul Clarke, who thundered off a slap shot that bounced off Sarachman and worked its way out in front to Greg Meredith who slid it under the falling goalie's pads. 

Jack Brownshidle, playing another excellent defensive game, made a nice sliding poke check on John Markell, when he cruised in on the left side and Bowling Green started putting pressure on in their own zone. Both Dave Easton and Byron Shutt had glorious opportun­ities in front of the net, but were denied by Peterson, who stopped 
15 shots in the eriod. 
The final Irish goal and the last of the game came at 16:35 when AI Karsnia took a Walsh pass and slapped it into the strings from the point. 
The win increased the Irish record to S-6-0, 4-6-0 in WCHA competition, and Coach Lefty Smith seemed satisfied with the performance. Smith said he had "no complaints" on the goal­tending of John Peterson, and added that he was "helped out by the goalie's best friend," referring to the first period slap shot by Tom Thomas that hit the crossbar and caromed off where it was cleared. 
Most of the praise naturally went to the penalty killing team. 
'''The sho~1-handed goal was very much a catalyst," said Smith, "but the real catalyst was the killing of the S-3 situation. I think Paul's goal simply added to that." 
The Irish take to the ice again this Friday night when they will begin a two game series with the tough Colorado team. Face-off time at the ACC will be 7:30. 

. l 
Wrestlers shine 
The Notre Dame wrestling team opened their season in Terre Haute, Indiana, over Thanksgiving while competing in the Indiana State Invitational. Strong indivi­dual performances for the Irish were turned in by Mike Padden, first place at 167, Pat Landfried, second at 158, and Bob Dreger, third at 177. Padden, who after a year layoff while studying aborad, looked outstanding for the Irish by registering two pins, including one late in the third period of his finals match. 
This Friday the team travels to Rochester, New York, to compete in the RIT Invitational. 
PERSONAU 
VALERATOR -It's the day after your birthday and if you feel Dea1t1 Coming On remember 0-A-B-D-A. Happy Birthday 1 day late. Love, Deb, Peg and Mary 

Stephan Urillo, By and large have a great 21st B-Day allight: Love, BroDerick 
Zoo: n, a collection of terrestrial and extra-terrestrial creatures. 
Val-Even though it's your 21st you still have to wait until graduation for that kiss. 
Love, 
D.A.K. 

Sabrina, 
It was a super week and I'm really happy to be back home to you. Next time you'll be with mel Skillng anyone?? 
BROKE 

Ride to Toledo needed Friday, Dec. 3rd. Call Peggy at 8125 
Do you want to be a Catholic? Please call 283-6536 or 283-3820 for information about the Notre Dame Catechumenate Program 
STUDENT UNION IS TENTATIVE­LY PLANNING TO CHARTER A BUS FROM N.D. TO O'HARE FOR CHRISTMAS. INTERESTED STU­DENTS SIGN UP WITH THE S.U. SECRETARY 2ND FLOOR, LA· FORTUNE BY DEC 7 
LAST CHANCE TO GET ON SAN­TA'S "NICE" LISTII SAVE ME FROM A BLOOD !MONEY) -THIR­STY GREYHOUND. NEED RIDE TO ST. LOUIS DEC 22. JUST OFF HIGHWAY 40 ON CLAYTON. CALL MAUREEN 6125 or 1715 
INITIATION FOR OBSERVER STAFF WHO EXPRESSED INTER­EST IN SIGMA DELTA CHI IS TOMORROW NIGHT. CONTACT OBSERVER FOR DETAILS 
I can't believe I'm NOT In LA. or California. How sad to be bac:k In South Bend for this glorious 21st . Happy Birthday v.z. 
To the NURD that took 3 notebooks and CALCULUS book from M Library Tuesday morning. Please leave them In the Ubrary Lost and Found before Thur., Finals era hereII 
•
Rosas are Red, 
VIolets are Blue: 
We got four, 
And they got onel 
HA HA HAll 


NOTICES 
TYPING · $.35 a page. Call Dan 272-5549 
Neat accurate typing of term papers, manuscripts. Call 287-5162 
MORRISSEY LOAN FUND $20-$150. 1 day wait. 1 percent interest. Due in 30 days. LaFortune Basement. M-F 11:15. 12:15 
Free -Baby Gerbils. Call 272-0495 
Need typing? Professional Typing Service -Top Quality . convenient location 232-0898 · 
Accurate, fast typing. Mrs. Dono­hue, 232-0746 Hours 8 AM-8 PM 
ANYONE FROM N.Y., N.J., 
CONN OR MASS, INTERESTED IN 
TAKING AMTRAK FOR CHRIST· 
MAS BREAK PICK UP FOIIMI IN 
STUDENT ACTIVITES -IIPIC 
LAFORTUNE BLDG. 1M 
LV. REDUCED GllO AVAILABLE. 
FOR RENT 
3 room furnished apartment. Call 288-9533. Utilities furnished 
LOST AND FOUND Found: Cross pen in front of LaFortune. Call 4-5234 
WANTED 
Need housemates 4 miles; good neighborhood, furnished, color TV, pool table, $60 includes utilites 233-2706 
Wanted: Friends of the Zoo. Apply in person, Fri. nlte. 
Need one housemate for spring semester. Own unfurnished room In seven room house. $50.00 monthly plus utilities. Call 287-2702 
Wanted to buy or copy: the 1974 and . or 1973 organic tests. WIll pay reasonable asking price. Karen . 6994 
1need a ride to Orlando Florida area for Christmas. Share driving and expenses. Call Doug 1612 
Doc Pierce's Saloon and Restaurant is hiring full or part-time NOW. Hostesses, bartenders, waiters, waitresses, busboys, line cooks, prep cooks. WIll schedule around academic committments. Apply In person between 2 and 4 pm at 120 North Main Street, Mishawaka. Jltlone 255-7737. An equal oppor­
tunity employer. 
With the Irish· two men short and Bowling Green picking up steam, Lefty Smith put out Geoff Collier, Jack Brownshidle and Paul Clarke to kill the penalty, and kill it they did. The Irish used what some· times is the best defensive strat­egy: offense. After clearing the puck down the ice in their own zone, the Falcons got sloppy in their own end, and Geoff Collier nearly found himself cruising in alone, but was stopped before he could get a shot off. The defense failed to clear, however, and Paul Clarke, alertly forechecking, inter­cepted a clearing pass, sailed in alone, and whipped the third Irish goal of the night into the right hand corner. 
Five minutes later, Sarachman was the victim of a bad bounce, when a Walsh shot caromed in back of the net, bounced off the boards out in front where Kevin Nugent alertly slammed it home. Donny Fairholm also picked up an assist on the powerplay goal. 
Greg Meredith was the worst victim of the roughness that char­acterized the game, when he was checked hard into the boards as he waited out in front of his own net. Steve Douglas was thrown off for interference, and Meredith skated off shaken but uninjured. 
With seconds left in the middle period, Paul Clarke collected his second goal of the night when he. received a Terry Fairholm pass, skated in on Sarachman's left and blasted a slap shot past his stick side. 
The third period, producing many scoring opportunities but only one goal, saw tempers flare and ten penalties amassed, includ­ing a ten minute misconduct to Byron Shutt who got called for charging and complained once too 
ILEARWAMH 
IN LAW and ENGINEERING ... one and two-year posiitions available all over the United States. Benefits include transportation, monthly liv­ing allowance, housing, medical, paid vacation and more See VISTA (Volunteers in Service to America) recruiters Nov. 29 . Dec 2, 9-5, in the Placement Bureau and in the Lib· rary Concourse 
Several two-year positions available overseas for qualified volunteers. All transportation paid, living allow. ance, medical benefits, housing and termination allotment. For more info see Peace Corps recruiters Monday-Thursday, 9-5, Placement Bureau or Library Concourse 
TEACHERS SCIENCE AND MATH· Needed for two-year positionS' overseas. From primary to college level. Volunteers receive paid round-trip transporta. tion, monthly living allowance, housing and more. For more information on these and other overseas job openings, see Peace Corps recruiters Monday. Thursday 9-5, In the Library Co·•r.ourse or the Placement Bureau 
PEACE CORPS OVERSEAS JOBS · Many openings in many areas for qualified volun­teers. For more Information on lobs and benefits offered, see ~ Corps and VISTA recruiters Monday 
Thursday 9 am -5 pm In the Placement Bureau or the UbrwyConcourse 
FOR SALE 
For Slle: One small lriDi ...... boy (Not toilet-trained). C.....l ..
... 
P.S. Who the hell Is Mllbel?t 
For Sale: One used housem.te. Fairly good condition, toilet-trained. $6. CAll Pat 1715 
Book Shop. Used books, students paradise. Open Wed., Sat., Sun., 9-7. Ralph Casperson Books, 1303 Buchanan Road., Niles Mich. 683-2888 
For Sale: 1 pair large Advents ­unopened $225.00. Call Ed at 1492 

. ._ 
' 
the observer Wednesday, December 1, 1976 

Dorsett runs away with Heisman 
by Herschel Nlssenson son of an Aliquippa, Pa., steel mill "Not too many people get an AP Sports Writer worker, carried each of the opportunity to win the Heisman country's five voting regions -­Trophy. It only comes once in a NEW YORK [AP] -Before he East, South, Midwest, Southwest lifetime, except for ArchieGriffin." ever played a game for the Uni­and Far West--and received 701 of But the Heisman Trophy, the versity of Pittsburgh, Tony Dorsett 863 first-place votes, 112 seconds, single-season record of 1, 948 wanted to quit. and 30 thirds for a total of 2,357 yards, the NCAA career mark of But, says Coach Johnny Majors, points. Twenty voters left his name 6,082, the all-time scoring total of "he never backs away from a off their ballots. The voting is 356 points --all could easily have challenge." tabulated on a 3-2-1 basis. been nothing more than a string of Dorsett didn't back away from Ricky Bell, Southern California's zeroes if Dorsett had had his way.this one, either, and it paid off star running back, finished second "I was sick and tired of foot­Tuesday when he won the 1976 in each region but polled only 1 ,346 ball," Dorsett said. "The first time Heisman Trophy as ''the outstand­points on 73 firsts, 485 seconds and I wanted to quit was at a highing college football player in the 157 thirds. In third place was school all-star camp for the Big 33 United States." another running back, Michigan's game in Pennsylvania. There were It was a runaway for Dorsett, Rob Lytle, with a total of 35-85-138-a Jot of other things I could be almost as easy as his romps 413. doing instead of getting my bodythrough Pitt's 11 victims this year "I guess this makes up for last all banged up, but if I had I'd for an all-time NCAA record of year,'' said Dorsett, who thought probably be just another person out 1,948 yards. he should have won the 1975 on the concrete. The second time The 5-foot-11, 192-pound senior, Hesiman, but finished fourth. was after training camp my fresh­
Tim Bourret :=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=;=;=·=;=·=·=·=·=·=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:= man year at Pitt. The transfer from high school to college really did it to me. 
"I'm basically a quiet person. It was hard for me to even go out and 

King of the hardcourt 
make friends with my own team­mates. I was ready to quit school. My mom told me if I quit it would 

===============================================================:=:========================================================== 
Michigan? 
have broken her heart, but the
The 1976-77 college basketball season promises to be the ~ost _exciting 
person I'd probably be hurting the

campaign in over a decade for two reasons. For the first time m years 
most would be myself.

there does not appear to be a clear-cut favorite for the national 
"She didn't really have to do too

championship as the season commences. La~t year's undefe~te? Hoosiers 
much talking to get me to go back

of Indiana have lost four starters. Last year s runner-up, Michigan, does 
and now I'm sure she was right. I
not appear to have the heighth or the depth to go all the way. Perennial 
don't even dare think what would

champion of the past, UCLA has its usual plethora of talent, but ~acks 
have happened to me if I hadn't
leadership. Even the national polls are in disagree~e~t as to the nat~on:S 
gone back. Aliquippa's a small
top team. as the Associated Press has selected MIChigan as the nati_on,s 
town --some people call it the Little
top squad, while rival United Press Internatio_nal feels AI McGmre s 
Apple --and it's easy to get off on 

Marquette Warriors are the supreme college qumtet. me break a lot of tackles I couldn't 
the wrong foot." freshman to a 165-pound sopho­
Further excitement will be generated by the return of the dunk shot. previously," said Dorsett.
Instead, Dorsett tackled football more to a 180-pound junior andFinally we can see the Nate Davises, Marques Johnsons and Bill _Paterno at Pitt "like a man possessed in his finally a 192-pound senior. Dorsett will receive the trophyjam a break away with titillating authority. What a shame_ for _Irish fans 
dedication," said Majors. He ''The excess weight helped next Thursday night at the annualthat the rebirth of this exciting rule has been withheld until ~his season, started working with weights and make me more durable and helped Heisman banquet.
for two of Notre Dame's greatest "would-be" dunkers (Adnan Da_ntley and Bill Laimbeer) have departed in search of higher wealth and higher grades. However, many feel Laimbeer will return to th~ ACC's hardw~d for the authoritative stuffs he demonstrated durmg last season s Bookstore Bonanza. 
Pitt still holds number one 
Here is an account of my top ten teams. It is a prognostication of the rankings on April 1. 

(AP)-All season, coaches have to fifth with 747 points after edging Nebraska and Texas Tech held onto 1. KENTUCKY-Here is a team that was as hot as any other at season's been saying there may not be a Georgia Tech 13-10 on a last­ninth by crushing Arkansas 30-7end last year. The Wildcats won their last ten games and an ~IT 
super college football team in the 
minute field goal. 
but Nebraska fell from lOth to 13th.
championship. The NIT has a tendency to give a team confidence headmg 

country. Houston clinched the host spot in Replacing the Cornhuskers in lOthinto the following season. Notre Dame's 1973-74 team came off an Johnny Majors of No. 1-ranked the Cotton Bowl --the Cougars will place was streaking Texas A&M, aoutstanding performance in the 1973 National Invitation Tournament and Pittsburgh has a different opinion. meet Maryland -· with a 42-20 rout 27-3 winner over Texas.
might have won the national championship had it not been for an out of "I think we're an outstanding of Rice and rose from seventh place The Second Ten consists of Ohio sight Campy Russell performance on a Thursday night in Alabama in the 

team, yes, I do," he said Tuesday to sixth with 526 points. Idle UCLA State, Colorado, Nebraska, Okla­NCAA tournament. 
after the Panthers held onto the top dropped from sixth to seventh with · homa State, Notre Dame, Ala­Kentucky returns just about everyone, including a healthy Rick Robey 
spot for the fourth week in a row, 
510 points. bama, Rutgers, Baylor and Northwho sat out 18 games last season due to injury. With Robey and Mike this time in The Associated Press' Oklahoma remained in eighth Carolina, with Mississippi StatePhilips up front there won't be enough room for any opposing center to 
final regular season poll. place with a 20-17 triumph over and Penn State tied for 20th.
operate, including the big guy at Indiana. Jack Givens is a gunner, but is 
"I think we're the best team in unstoppable when he is on. Coach Joe Hall has also add~d Jay Shidler, a 
the country," Majors continued. 
hotshot from Illinois who broke all the tournament scormg records last 
"We have all the ingredients of an winter and was selected MVP of the much-heralded Dapper Dan Classic in 
outstanding team. 
Pittsburgh. Another plus for the Wildcats is that the Mideast Regional 
"If I've told the team once I've will be held on their new homecourt, the 22,600-seating Rupp Arena. 
*Observer
told them a thousand times -only
But the SEC members better make the most of this season, because a 

one team can beat this team; you're strict NCAA probation penalty might be on the way due to some 
the only team that can beat you if overzealous recruiting of among others, Notre Dame's Dave Batton. you play like you're capable of 
2. NORTH CAROUNA -The North Carolina Olympians (their new 
playing.nick-name) return four starters from last season's 25-4 team that closed 
"Championship teams find a the season with its annual choke. Dean Smith's boys swept through the way to win and we did. One week 
regular season without much problem but were snake-bitten in the ACC's our defense did it, the next week it 
Sports
Chinese Fire-drill Tournament at season's end by Virginia, whose would be our offense, the next tournament victory must be compared with the accomplishments of the week our kickers, and we won three 1969 Mets. straight games with a third-string 
Phil Ford, who quarterbacked the U.S. Olympic Team this past summer quarterback. I know this sounds is an All-American. His late season injury problems prohibited North really, really corny but I really Carolina from advancing past the final 32 in the NCAA tournament. Tom believe we're a team of destiny." LaGarde, another gold medalist, is a strong, hard-working center who will However, Pitt's next destination is be more effective now that Mitch Kupchak has departed for the fortunes the Sugar Bowl on New Year's Day, of the NBA. They seemed to get in each other's way at times last season. where the Panthers will face fifth­Walter Davis, a third gold medalist on the starting unit is a fine all-around ranked Georgia in an attempt to player who can play guard or forward. Freshmen Mike O'Koren, Dave nail down their first national Colescot and Steve Krafcisin give this team that has finished in _first ?r championship in 39 years. second place in the tough ACC the past ten years, the depth champ_10nsh1p Pitt defeated arch-rival Penn teams need. The Tar Heels bit the dust in the finals of the B1g Four State 24-7 last Friday night and Tournament Saturday against a surprising Wake Forest team, but will be wound up with an 11-0 regular 
near the top by season's end. . ...• 
season record. That earned the 
3. UCLA -Gene Bartow breathed a big sigh of relief when7 Marques Panthers 45 first-place votes and Johnson, the prodigal son of college basketball, withdrew his name from 1,128 of a possible 1,160 points the NBA's hardship list about an hour after the dealine. "The Cadillacs from a nationwide panel of 58 turned into Volkswagons after the merger," commented Johnson upon his sports writers and broadcasters. decision. The 6-6 senior has never realized his potential. He will be The national championship poll especially effective and exciting with the new dunking rule. David will be released on Tuesday, Jan. Greenwood, who paid a visit to Notre Dame one rainy weekend in April of 4, following the post-season bowl 1975, will start at center. The other forward slot is wide open, but should games. go to senior sharpshooter Gavin Smith or 6-9 giant Brett Vroman. The Behind Pitt, runner-up Michigan Bruins had as much talent as anyone last year, but appear to be widened its lead over third-place unorganized offensively, demonstrating a run-and-gun oriented offense at Southern California while unbeaten times when a mechanized pattern attack might have been in order. Maryland slipped past Georgia into 
fourth place and Houston inced
4. MARQUETTE-This team may be overrated, but everyone is ranking 


them in their top five. Bo Ellis will be the star of this team according to ahead of UCLA for the sixth spot. Coach AI McGuire, who has not had to purchase toilet paper for his family 
Michigan, which finished its since last year's Notre Dame contest in South Bend. Ellis may be the most regular season a week ago, re­overrated player in the country, just look at his statistics (12 P.P.G and 9 
ceived eight first-place votes and R.P.G.). The loss of Earl Tatum's 18 points a game and Lloyd Walton's climbed from fifth to fourth with 

183 assists will hurt this enigmatic team more than most of the experts 749 points. The Terrapins passed 
I,raul Clarile scored two goals for the Irish as they skated by Bowling 
believe. [continued on page 7] Georgia, which skidded from fourth 
,Greet~, 6-1. Story on page 7. [Photo by leo Hansen] 






