------------------~------------------------------------------------­

Mock Convention underway 
Delegates get down to business 
by Phil Cackley Senior Staff Reporter 
The delegates of the Mock Convention rolled up their sleeves and 
got down to work last night, beginning the process of approving the 
platform. 
Also accolmplished last night was the election of a permanent 
chairperson and the approval of the reports of the credentials and 
rules committees. 

Ten planks were passed by the delegates, but not without l'Onsiderable debate. The platform was not originally on Wednesday's agenda, but platform chairmen Rick Littlefield and Mike Meissner made the decision to begin the consideration to avoid an overly extended session tonight, due to long debate on certain planks. 
The more controversial issues are to be considered tonight, including abortion. women's rights, gun control, busing and school financing. 

Only one major change was made in the platform, the acceptance of the minority plank on labor relations and standards. The minority plank was not the main plank presented by the platform committee to the delegates, and is more conservative than the majority plank. 
The decision to accept the minority plank came after a long roll call 
vote. the only one of the evening, in which the vote was 397 in favor 

of the minority plank, and 351 favoring the majority. 
There was considerable debate on the labor relations plank and numerous ammendments were proposed. Most of the planks dealt with last night were am mended in some way, and there was debate on nearly every plank and ammendment offered. 
Other planks approved were on national economic policy and management. tax reform. farm labor, assistance to farmenr, export produce, national energy policy, national transportation policy, environmental protection and foreign policy on Western Europe. 


Ten Planks were passed by the delegates last night but not without considerable debate. Most of the planks were passed by voice vote alone. 
Ron Hathaway was elected per­manent chairperson for the conven­tion early in the evening. The credentials committee. which ap­proved all of the delegates present, was accepted, as was the rules committee report. 
The election of the chairperson and the credentials report came ahead of the main speaker, Robert Strauss, National Democratic Party Chairman. who was late. The rules report was dealt with after Strauss' speech and the platform was 
considered  for  the  rest  of  the  
cvenin);!.  
Platform  chairman  Rich  Ltttle­ 

ficld commented last night that "Things went rather well, but judging from tonight it's going to go late tomorrow. 
All delegates and alternates have been requested to attend tonight's session, which is devoted solely to the platform. The NO Jazz Band will play from 6:30p.m. to 7 p.m., and Congressman Don Reigle of Michigan, will be the Keynote speakers. Visitors are encouraged to attend. 

Politicians deliver opening speeches 
by Maureen O'Brien "mock conventions are a serious Strauss then began his speech Strauss pointed out what is Staff Reporter thing." but could not speak being interrup­
wrong in government is not the A gavel bang, cheering and "The man you nominate and the rupted by applause ·before the end American system of laws and Vincent Moschella opened the platform you select better reflect of each sentence. After being institutions, but the managementninth Mock National Convention at what this country is about or what it interrupted for a third time by of them. Strauss said the nation Stepan Center last night. is intended to be about," Hesburgh audience laughter, Strauss stopped should "roll back the power of About Boo people listened to stated. and said, "Now wait a minute, government." "Least governmentMoschella, co-chairperson of the that's not funny." The audience is best government," he stated. 
progress of civil rights 
Mock Democratic National Conven­.laughed and Strauss continued Strauss took several digs at thetion, offer some salutory words. Hesburgh then talked about the without interruption. 
Republicans. particularly NixonMoschella then turned the podium progression of civil rights in Amer­Strauss said the Democrats have and Ford. 
over to Fr. Robert Griffin. Univer­ica. Hesburgh pointed out civil come a long way since 1972 and "What we must do is re-estab­sity chaplain, for the invocation. rights have made "slow. uphill were about to enter the home­lish faith and belief in both our progress'' during the past two stretch. 
leaders and American institutions. 
After the singing of the national hundred years, but there now are "Tonight we begin the final The nation starves for leadership,"anthem, Fr. Theodore M. Hes­about 16000 elected blacks in the test--this convention and its ac­Strauss said.
burgh, University president, deliv­country. He said a series of events tions and conduct will be our Strauss, concluding his speechered the official opening address. in American history brought the mid-term examination, and elec­with a quote from the speech which 
"Delegates, contrary to public country close to Jefferson's ideal tion night in November will be our John Kennedy prepared but never myth, I'm not running for office," that "all men are created equal." final exam," Strauss said. The delivered inDallas, 1963, called for Hesburgh began. Hesburgh's After the performance of "This phrase "mid-term examination" people in America to stand togeth­speech focused on the importance is My Country" by the Glee Club, drew boos from the audience. cr. of the mock convention and civil Peter J. Nemeth, mayor of South rights. Hesburgh told the audience Bend, offered some welcoming 
remarks. 
Sen. Bayh searches 
''I'm the third best politician here," Nemeth said. "Fr. Hes­burgh and Fr. Griffin are better 
for way out of race 
politicians than I am," he added. Nemeth compared South Bend to By Walter R. Mears progressives have. the Democratic party, saying both AP Special Correspondent 
Republican side were for the people. Nemeth then Sen. Birch Bayh, a candidate 
welcomed the delegates to South with no way to go but out after his On the Republican side, Presi­bend and extended ''best wishes drubbing in the Massachusetts dent Ford won the Massachusetts for a successful convention." presidential primary, conferred and Vermont primaries on Tues­with his strategists Wednesday, day, but a spokesman for Ronald Speech Interrupted apparently to look for a graceful Reagan predictably discounted the way to the Democratic exit. victories. Neither Ford nor Reagan 
Robert S. Strauss, chairman of "There's no other decision for campaigned in Massachusetts and the Democratic National Commit­Bayh to make," a top aide said as he was not on the ballot in tee, then delivered the keynote the Bayh command met in Wash­Vermont, where he got about 16 address. Strauss received a stand­ington. per cent of the vote on write-ins. 
ing ovation as he walked to the A spokesman said Bayh would Florida's Democratic president­podium. Like Hesburgh and make an announcement Thursday ial primary, testing Jackson against Nemeth, Strauss opened with an in New York. Alabama Gov. George C. Wallace anecdote. Sen. Henry M. Jackson of Wash­and former Georgia Gov. Jimmy 
ington savored his triumph in the Carter -who had a short flight as 
"I'm Teminded of a story," Tuesday voting, which put him front-runner but ran fourth in Strauss began. "Once there were atop the field with 23 per cent of Massachusetts · is next on the two Texans (applause from Texas the vote in a splintered, nine-way polling place itinerary. delegates) going through a grave­contest. The President and his conserva­yard at night. One would hold a Rep. Morris K. Udall of Arizona tive GOP challenger face their next lantern up to each gravestone and was rejoicing, too, at a second all-out contest in Florida in a week. the other would write on a piece of place showing that marked him the But Udall is not campaigning paper. They came to a gravestone top man among liberal Democrats. there. So for now, his campaign which neither of them could read. Udall's task now is to convince arena will be the reform equivalent The one Texan wanted to bypass it liberal Democrats that they ought of the smoke-filled room, trying to but the other Texan insisted they to coalesce around his candidacy, broaden his base with old-line wipe it off to see the name. These and he worked at it by arguing at a party stalwarts, labor and black guys have as much right to vote as New York news conference that he leaders. 
anyone," Strauss said. is now the only champion the (Continued on page 3) 
Thursday, March 4, 1976

the observer 
---News Briefs--­Record destroyer named for prize 
CIDCAGO -A Chicago nurse convicted for destruction of draft records has been nominated for the 1976 Nobel Peace Price 
Jane Kennedy, who in 1969 scrambled napalm formula tapes at a Dow Chemical Co. plant in Michigan and destroyed Selective Service records at a draft board in Inidanapolis, was called a "prisoner of conscience" belonging to "the world community of political prisoners" in the nominating letter. 
Ms. Kennedy, as she prefers to be disignated, was assistant head of nursing and research at the University of Chicago's Billings 
Hospital before her imprisonment in the Detroit House of Corrections. 
--On Campus Today-
mass, Iafortune ballroom ­12:15 pm -­
1·30 pm-bicycle pick-up, from winter storage, gate 14, stadium, 
4:15 pm --also march 11. 
computer course, "cocol" room 115, computer and
3:30 pm -­math bldg. 
4 pm --colloquium, 'S'mediators of social attraction in the rat," by Lr. sloan, phd, room 119, haggar hall. 
mock convention, congressman don riegle, stepan, also 
6:30pm-­
march 5,6. 
7 pm --discussion, assertiveness training with jill soens and sharon kish, women's career center, south bend, iibrary aud. 
discussion, "collective bargaining in higher educa­7 30 pm -­
tion," by joseph schwartz, university club. 
7:30, old tv classics, .75 ticket, free popcorn and coke,10 pm --
Iafortune ballroom 
8 pm --drama, drama, arthur miller's 'S'the crucible" by nd/smc theater, o'laughlin aud, tickets: $2 general; $1.50 students,faculty, staff. for reservations and tickets call 284-4176. also march 5 and 6. 
8 pm -­lecture, "figurative ceramics from north-east nigeria in a global context," by prof. arnold rubin, from ucla, architecture aud. 
8 pm -­recital, valerie manzie, senior, voice recital, little theater. 
the album hour, wsnd 640 am, tonights's feature new
12 am-­
album: ozark mountain daredevils: "the car over the lake." 
12:15 am--nocturne night flight, wsnd 88.9 fm, the best in 
progressive rock, jazz and blues. tonight's host: brian . shanahan. 
*The Observer 
Night Editor -AI Rutherford Ass't Night Editor -Paul Schappler layout-Claire McCarthy, Laura Beth Hart Copy Reader-Kathy Mills Day Editor-Eileen O'Grady Editorials -Jim Stevens Sports -Earl Monroe (sure, Fred) 
The Observer is published .Monday 
SATURDAY, MARCH 6
through Friday and 'M!ekly during the sumner session, except during the 9-1 STEPAN CENTER exams il'ld vacation periods. The Follows Mock Convention Observer is published by the students of the Univ. of Notre Dame and St. REFRESHMENTS: TICKETS: Mary's College. Subscriptions may be 1 Bread and Cheese $3.00 couple purd'lased for $18 ($10 per semester) COKE 2.50 de legates fro., The Obset"vet", Box Q, Notre 7·Up & Dame, lndiil'la 46556. Sealnd Class Orange alternates postage paid, Notre Dame, IN 46556. 1'/U(f:TS sold wni{l/11 ;, thf' IJining_ Hall 
.___________~I MUSIC by FAWN SEMI·FORNAL 
SPECIAL 10% DISCOUNT ON AL MERCHANDISE TO NOTRE D & ST. MARY'S STUDENTS 

Yearbook calls for junior pix 

Any juniors who have not made arrangements for their senior pic­tures for DOME '77 can do so immediately by calling 3557 bet­ween 9 a.m. and 4 p.m. Appoint­ments are daily during the same hours in the basement of La­Fortune. 
There is no charge if the picture is taken now. The student will receive proofs and have the options 
of ordering pictures. If no pictures are ordered, a pose should be chose and it will be forwarded to the year­book staff. 
If a junior waits until the fall to have portraits taken, there will be a non-refundable sitting fee of at least $10. The DOME will accept absolutely no pictures for publica­tion that are not taken by the photographer from Delma Studios who is on campus specifically for this purpose. 
Proofs should be received by students within four weeks of their sitting a~~intment. All juniors who hav~ready had their port­raits made are reminded to return their proofs to the photographer in the basement of LaFortune begin­ning March 8. 
Juniors who are totally dissatisfi­ed with their proofs can make appointments for resittings by call­ing 3557 between 9 a.m. and 4p.m. There will be a $3 charge for this service. 


Bicycle pickup begins today 
Students who stored their bicy­cles for the winter in the stadium can pick them up this afternoon from 1 :30 to 4:15p.m. at Gate 14 of the Stadium. Students are request­ed to bring the storage receipt and student Id card. 
The bicycles will also be released 
from 1:30 to 4:15 p.m. on Thurs., 
March 11. 
For further information, contact 
Bill Brewka at 3431. 

THE CRUCIBLE 
Arthur Miller's po~rful drama examning events surrounding the Salem witch hunts. 
Mar. 4, 5, 6 at 8:00 P.M. OlAUGHLIN AUDITORIUM
(Std-Fac. $1.50) Alone: 284-4176 (St. Mary's) 



"LADIES' NIGHT" 

TUESDAY & THURSDAY DANCE THIS WEEKEND TO SOUTH SHORE MICHIGAN'S TOP ROCK NIGHT CLUB! 


~-l41tJiiiY'I 
22 WUT ARST•notn • MOSHAWAKA , 
tBOi[A-SHED~~----, 
tEVERYONE WELCOME~ 
t t t THIS FRIDAY AND EVERY t t t
t FR/DAYAT5:15p.m. t t t~ : Mass followed by dinner : 
MAHOGANY
1 F 7:30, 9:45 M -Th 7:00, 9:15 
Sat 2:30, 4:45, 7:30, 9:45 


~ F~:~~~~E~~~~~o~~~N 
Sat 2:15, 4:45, 7:15, 9:45 
l?f!iler-llfJUSe t=lix 
255 -9575 

~ND 
SMC 
T H [ __ ;~ T+< [-~ 
All Seats $2.00 
,. J ~· < p ~ I • I 
--· .-----.. --.,_ # ------oP-_. --:::. ... .... ---~ ........ -••• 

\ •. \'I. 1 t • '.I I I If I I I I' 

Thursday, March 41 1976 the observer 




White House denies secret pacts 
Udall hopes for Bayh 's support FENYOUNGPROMOTioNSffiE~;T~ 
(Continued from page!) · If Udall's next move was opera-primary there. f -IN CONCERT -t "It's going to be what I call tion outreach. Bayh's appeared to Todoit,he'llnccdanassistfrom ;F~ t
A

operation outreach," he said. be operation out. He ran seventh, Bayh. Under the complex New ' ""1.1 
Jackson was moving on to the got 5 per cent of the vote. and said York primary system, candidates A ~ ~ l Florida campaign while insisting it on primary night that he would field slates of delegates by con-' • y ' wouldn't be a decisive test. He said have to reconsider his role in the gressional district. But the names f .,.. t New Yo_rk, whi~h holds its p.rim~ry effort to elect a Democratic presi-on the ballot arc those of th_e & • on Apnl tr. wtth 274 nommatmg dent. would-be delegates, not the prest-' votes at stake. would be the next Udall obviously hoped that role dential candidates. & & rt·al measurement of Democratic would be an endorsement of his Bayh had been better organized ' ' candidates. candidacy. "There are only three in New York, with slates entered in t f 
people this morning who have a all but one of the 39 congressional A & Carter needs win serious shot at the nomination," he districts. Jackson also had 38 ' ' Carter. who won Tuesday's said. "Their names are Jackson, slates. Udall supporters were ent-& A
A 

Vermont primary saw that Carter and Udall." ered in no more than 23, and he ' 1 · ' 
his initial New Hampshire victory H 1 B h f h & -t... . t
uickly overtaken by the Massa-owever. a source c ose to ay wasn't quite sure o t at. ' A. . _.,
q 
raised doubt that the Indiana But the delegate entries can MQ S C 
chusetts verdict, was campaigning senator was prepared to throw in switch allegiance any time before & RRI IVIC AUDITORIUM & in Florida. h U ' ' 
The Massachusetts returns left wit dall. the primary, and a Bayh dropout & THURSDAY , MARCH 11 -8:00 PM & 
The Arizona congressman said could give Udall the makings of a ' ' him badly in need for a win there, if that Carter, who looked invincible statewide campaign for that big f TICKETS ON SALE NOW AT BOX OFFICE t
he is to re-establish his ranking at D
to many emocrats one week ago, delegation. the top of the field. is "extremely vincible," with Jack-& 11 to 5 PM $6.50 -$5.50 -$4.50 -Reserved f
He was beginning a swing son now the front-runner. Jack Quinn, Udall's national ' through 24 Florida cities, saying campaign director, said in Boston A MAIL ORDERS TO: M.C.A., 211 NORTH f that campaigns centered on opposi-Udall, who stopped off in New that his candidate and Bayh prob-' MICHIGAN STREET, so. BEND, 46601 tion to busing are basically nega-York, said he would make a ably will meet privately in the next f STAMPED ENVELOPE FOR PROMPT RETURN _f 
tivewith''connotationsofracism.'' maximum effort in the April 6 dayortwo. ----------------­
1tU (NOV/1 ,,.-TAKES A &16 61JY 'TO SE.AI 
, '1ME He'LL ouT o.f HE. • .. IT 1)411>1 "F ­"fjja:e HIM iONf:J, &Jr.., 

WASHINGTON AP -Despite White House insistence that "noth­ing was kept secret" in the Sinai accords, several members of the Senate Foreign Relations Commit­tee said Wednesday they knew nothing of agreements described by Egyptian President Anwar Sa­dat. 
Sadat told a weekend news conference there were three "sec­ret agreements." He said the United States guaranteed that Is­rael would not attack Syria, pled­ged to do all it could to see that the Palestinians would have a role in 
.. 
., ­
• 
t 
' 
any settlement, and vowed to try to bring about another disengage­ment agreement on the Syrian front. 
Senate Majority Leader Mike Mansfield, D-Mont., a member of the Foreign Relations Committee, said: "We were told there were no secret agreements." 
Mansfield said he thought the panel ought to investigate the matter. He said the committee staff ought to "make appropriate inquiries at the Sate Department." 
A spokesman for Sen. Clifford Case, K-N.J., senior Republican on 

DlJST TO DlJST. The beginning of the lenten season yesterday was symbolized with the administering of ashes. During lent, Mass will be celebrated daily at 12:15 by Rev. Robert Griffin in the la Fortune Student Center. (Photo by Chris Smith) 
Wants NY delegates 
the committee, said Case did not recall being told of any agreements such as those described by Sadat. 
Nothing secret At the White House Press Secretary Ron Nessen said, "Noth­ing was kept secret in the consulta­tions with Congress . . . Any understandings of agreements were spelled out in great detail." State Department spokesman Robert Funseth said, "We have not withheld any secret agreements from Congress.'' Sen. Hubert Humphrey, D-Minn., said the agreements des­cribed by Sadat were familiar. He said the committee was told by 
Secretary of State Henry Kissinger that the United Staes "would encourage the Israelis to talk to the Syrians." 
He also said it was understood 

the United States would attempt to f,;ill-------"-lU!.-""""-ll~L.!.!.:'-!.!.!.!.!.!~~~..!::...!7~~~=-~~~~--t;:;ll 
have the interests of the Palestin­
ian!. represented in any govern­
ment. 

Humphrey emphasized that the 
understandin_g applied to the Pales-
Arm wrestling tournament 
All hall directors of the CAUSE Arm Wrestling Tournament are asked to have completed their hall playoffs by Friday. Hall champions from each weight division will meet for round one eliminations at 2 
P.M. Sunday in the Grace pit. Spectator admission for Sunday's pairings will be $.25. 


SU sponsors TV classics 
Student Union will sponsor "Old TV Classics" tonight at 7:30 and 10 
p.m. in Lafortune Ballroom. 
The program will feature the best clips of such shows as Ozzie and Harriet, The Honeymooners, The Lone Ranger, Groucho Marx, Superman, and Amos and Andy. Tickets will be 75 cents and this will include free popcorn and coke. 
Wa~er fv\atthau & GeQ1'9e Burns ,Ne1l Simons "The Sunsh1ne Boys-.. \!...... R~eharq_Bentamln 
WEEKDAYS. 7:00-9:10 SAT. SUN.· 1:20-3:20-5:20 7:35-9:45 P.M. 
~~STON'S TIIBIDan Who Would BB Kin 
FOR GROUP SALES AT REDUCED PRICE DIAL 277-1371 


rnlctlae~s 
hair st~LinQ 
FOR APPT. CALL: 272-7222 18381EDISON RD. AT SO.BENDAVE. 

tinian people, not to the Palestine Liberation Or~anization. Deceived 
Sen. Frank Church, D-Idaho, said that if Sadat's version is true, "Congress and the American peop­le were once again deceived in a manner reminiscent of the Nixon years." 
Kissinger testified before the committee in closed session last October when the administration was seeking approval to send 200 American technicians to the Middle East to man surveillance stations in the Sinai. 
Members of the committee questioned him closely about whet­her there were any secret agree­ments. 
After a seven-hour session with the committee, Kissinger emerged with Church and the Idaho senator told reporters that Kissinger "told the committee this afternoon that all of the commitments that have been made by the government of the United States that are regarded as binding in character by the administration have been submitt­ed to the committee." 
An aide to Sen. Hugh Scott, R-Pa., said, "I've not seen any­thing along those lines" when asked about the Sadat statements. 

. L.mlncK lfOt 
~~i.:B~· 
~ .. _ JL.-~



(~At·~~ 
WEEKDAYS -7:30-9:20 
SAT.SUN. · 7:15-9:20 
(ONE KIDDIE MATINEE) 

*1t~d.QJ2,~~rver
Founded November 3, 1966 
The Observer is published by the students of the University EDITORIAL BOARD of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. II does not necessarily 
Terry Keeney Editor-in-Chief 
reflect the policies of either institution. The news is reported 
AI Rutherlord Managing Editor 
as accurately and objectively as possible. Editorials represent 
Jim Eder Executive Editor
the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Com­
Pat Hanifin Editorial Editormentaries are the views of individual editors. Opinions, cartoons and regular columns express the views of their 
Bob Mader News Editor authors. Column space is available to all members of the Maureen Rynn Campus Editor community, and letters are encouraged to promote the free Mary Janca St. Mary's Editor expression of varying opinions on campus. Ken Bradford Copy Editor Val Zurblis Wire Editor 
Editorials: 28J-1715 News: 283-8661 Business: 283-7471 
Tom O'Neil Features Editor Business Manager Tom Modglin Bill Brink Sports Editor Advertising Manager Tom Whelan Dan Sanchez Senior Night Editor 
Thursday, March 4, 1976 ~ 


P.O. Box Q. 
-,.-.--~ -, 
DOONESBURY by Garry Trudeau 
J'[) APPR£CIAT5 IT 

6RE3ATL-Y IF Ya!'P TH&OfAIR­UPtAIN TO TH/3 MAN SAYS OIAIRMAN TI-IAT HGCAN'T I'M NOT OAV/0 t3&TOV5R 
&/S5NfiOW£R! 7H&RESEM­
/ BLANC/3.
I 


tunities and activities for students, be sought in a Senior Fellow. Two
Where's My 
faculty and staff to gather in main characteristics were decided informal social settings. Several of upon. First, the person should be our proposals for better use of the one who has performed outstand­"social space" around campus ingly in their field, as well as Dear Editor: have already been approved by the contributed above and beyond this, Once again this year the Senior SLC. These include: installation of in other areas of social concern. 
Fellow Committee should be com­a sound system and TV in LaFor­Secondly, the person should be mended fer their outstanding work tune; having the Nazz open nightly well-known by the seniors and in limiting student input for the with food served at both the Nazz appealing to them. This popularity 

Guy? 
commen ory~~~~~~~
selection of the Senior Fellow. and Darby's; having the Rathskel­is essential since it is ridiculous to Last November Bill Macauley, ler opened 24 hours a day; opening give an award to someone that the Chairman of the Senior Fellow the Pay Caf in the evenings for use seniors want to honor and who 
Committee, encouraged seniors to with pizzas and hot sandwiches supposedly represents them, if 
participate by submitting their being served; expansion of LaFor­they do not even know who he or 

Abortion: 
recommendations; so as "to ensure tune to include a restaurant and a she is. the worthy tradition of the Senior park-like setting nearby. With these well-thought out, Fellow Award." However, in the definite guidelines in mind, the
We are hopeful that many of past few months, this same com­these will be implemented at least committee narrowed down the 53 

More Questions
mittee arbitrarily and unjustly nar­on a trial basis, shortly after Spring nominations to 25, among them rowed the fifty-three nominees of Break, Already we have sponsored Daniel Moynihan, Gary Trudeau, the senior class down to a select and Bill Cosby. This was essential
a square dance in conjunction with 
Wacky Winter Weekend. Begin­few of 20 choices. According to the for logistic reasons, as well as to iiiiiiiii part two'iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiipO f h0 njfjn Observer of Monday, March 1, maintain the high standards neces­
ning tonight, a series of TV and Yesterday, in the first part of this commentary on abortion, we
sary to make this award meaningful 
1976, "This year's choices rep­movie classics will be presented. 
discussed some of the questions which need to be answered toresent a push by the Senior Fellow These films, made up of old TV and and sought after. By including such decide the status -human, non-human or otherwise -of the fetus.
Committee to establish a precedent movie show clips (Superman, Star nominations as Johnny Wadd, Dak Today the conclusion will consider some of the questions aboutfor high quality candidates." Trek, Ozzie and Harriet, The Lone Rambo and Farah Fawcett the ethics and the role of government -just the questions, not theMy questions to Bill Macauley Ranger) will be shown twice a award would be seen as a joke and answers.
and the Senior Fellow Committee week, on Mondays and Thursdays no longer as an honor. 
Only after we have settled the question of fetal status can we
Th~ committee sent letters to 25
are: Why were thirty-three can­in the LaFortune Ballroom. Each move to the level of general ethical principles -where moredidates disqualified by the Senior week's theme wiil be different, of the 53 nominees. Out of these questions await us. If we decide that the fetus is definitely human atFellow Committee? Couldn't they only five were able to accept the
ranging from movie out takes to some stage we must then ask, Is this a case in which a human lifeequal the high standards of distin­gangster films to movie orgies award and appear on campus if can be taken? When, if ever, can one take. human life? Theseguished men such as Hunter (G-rated, of course!) and with the they were to be elected. These questions cannot be passed over with a quick and absolute negative 
people not only meet the qualifica­
Thompson or Captain Kangaroo? emphasis on humor. Admission to as the pro-life advocates are inclined to do, unless we are willing to
tions but appeal to the many
When the election is over thir, each showing is only $.75 and free espouse total pacifism and renounce self-defense.
interests of the Wide spectrum of
year, let's not scream voter apathy. popcorn and coke will be served If we decide that the fetus is potentially or partially human our
people in the class, rather than only 
Many seniors, such as myself, took during intermission. 
next question will be When, if ever, is it proper to take that sort of
to a small group. The Senior Fellow 
the Senior Fellow Award seriously So, come and join us tonight and life? Even if we decide that the fetus is non-human we must ask
award reflects class preference, not
and submitted names to the com­every week for film classics -you whether the woman is the only person whose rights are involved: itpersonal preference. 
mittee for consideration. But my can't beat it! 
is conceivable that the prospective father should have something tonomination, along with thirty-two Kathy DePauw say in the matter. Further, is there any other principle besides the
Senior Class Fellow Committee 
others were eliminated on the basis Judy Arenson Ken Girouard protection of human life which would make abortion immoral in atof the committee's personal pref­Jim Brogle
Kevin Kenney least some instances. 
erence. How can anyone take this Susan Darin John Reid Seniors Having come to our conclusions on the moral issues we wouldelection seriously when the field of turn to the legal issues. Ifwe decide that the fetus is not human and candidates is arbitrarily limited by Intentions Saluted that only the mother's rights are involved we would then have to a select few? Why can't open aske about the proper role of the state in such matters. Is it true thatnominations be a part of this year's Clarified Dear Editor: the government should not interfere with a person's actions whenSenior Fellow Award? Who knows; No mention of their names was they will hurt no one else?
Dear Editor: if trends continue as they have in made in the Observer. They were Pro-abortionists are fond of talking of the issue in terms ofthe past few years, less than 200 not honored in a pre-game cere­"choice": allow the woman to decide the moral issue and whetherSince Senior Class Fellow elec­seniors will vote this year. But, can mony, as in past years. Therefore or not to have an abortion. But they fail to note that there are two you blame them? tions are taking place today, the we can only hope that the applause distinct kinds of choice involved. We may state the claim for the firstcommittee would like to clarify our which Roger Anderson and Myron kind of choice in this way: When no one but the deciding person canintentions and method of handlingAndrew Bury '76 Schuckman received, when they be hurt the person should be able to decide by herself what to do.
this year's proceedings. 
entered their last home game with The second claim may be stated as: the deciding person should beThe Senior Fellow Committee
SLC: Come 17 seconds left, wiii serve to show allowed to decide whether or not she is the only one who may be
has put forth much effort to 
the appreciation which many of the hurt.
revitalize the Senior Fellow award,Join Us not only by providing for increased students have for their efforts. The first claim arises indirectly from the principle that the 
government should stay out of one's solely personal affairs. Thus, if 
Dear Editor: student input, but also by estab­you drink alcohol you may be hurt but no one else will be. So theWe would like you to join us! We lishing a set of guidelines which government should stay out of the matter and let you decide. Butare hoping to provide more oppor-would enumerate .the qualities to 
the government can, under the first claim, interfere if you drive while drunk since you will be endangering others. However, under the second claim you would also be allowed to decide whether or not you were endangering anyone else; if you decided that you were not, then the government would have to allow you to continue driving. 
The claim to make solely personal decisions free from government interference is generally accepted in America (except in certain backward area where in loco parentis stiii reigns). But it is the society which usually decides whether the matter is really an entirely private one in which your actions will not hurt others, or whether you are violating someone else's rights. 
But one may ask whether the usual practice should be followed regarding abortion. The First Amendment properly prohibits any American government from passing legislation based on religious belief. But to what extent can society legislate a philosophical belief. (Of course many philosophical beliefs are implicit in existing laws: e.g. legislation against segregation implies strong philosoph­ical beliefs about the equality of men.) Does it make a difference that divisions of opinions are so sharp and that the numbers of people on both sides are roughly equal? 
These are all questioils that need to be answered if we are individually and collectively to come to the right decision about abortion. They will not be answered by screaming fanatics. Only calm, rational people aware ofthe complexities they are getting into 
'AND NOW THE DEFENSE CALL~ THE P.:;\'CHIAlRISTS... I 
will have a chance of coming out with the truth. 
the observer 
5 

Conversations with a Campus Homosexual 
~~Christianity condemns hypocrisy, therefore I will not liue in the shadows" 

t;DITOR'S NOTE: The following interview was conduded by two OBSERVER editors with Cliff Dearagon, a ND student who has ret•ently admitted his homosexuality. The text of the interview begins with a prepared statement by Deargon • 

DEARAGON: No man can live apart, yet I am pressured by an act of institutional violence to live by standards that are not mine; standards that crush my indididual­ity. personality. and force me to live outside of my feelings, outside of myself. which is ultimately a form on insanity. and causes me ultimately to lose touch with myself and reality. Therefore I declare my individuality. my integrity, my devotion to truth and goodness in saying publicly that I am a homosexual. I have known for some time that by the grace of God I am well balanced. whole, trustworthy. and be­cause of this. I cannot take a position different from the church of which I am a 
member. of the society I live in without reverentially saying that it is false, hypocritical. baseless, and immoral. Objectively. though. this calls for pru­dence. Christianity condemns hypocrisy, therefore, I will not hide in the shadows. I call for the end of the church's and society's double-standard, well-intention­ed though it may be. Christianity censures immoral behavior, therefore I declare that what I do is not immoral. but that the attitude of the church and society as 11 whole is immoral. To insinuate that I am corrup.t, base, objectively evil. is an evil thing to do. OBSERVER: How long have you been a 
homosexual, and Is there something defin­Ite that made you declare yourself public­ly? 
DEARAGON: I am a deliberate person. and I've known since I was a child. but about age ten years ago I became involved with the homosexual life and I actually practiced it for live or six years. I stopped...at that time my mind was completely clouded. I didn't value myself. I didn't value society's norms. I turned a lot of dispicablc attitudes in toward myself. .. I just felt like a worm. By a process of drugs and searching out eastern religions, I came to know that God is my saviour. i thought that now I must lead this existence totally. and I did--my last experience was in 1969. I naively believed I was cured. I prayed, I went to prayer helped me to determine to take this stand for myself, though I'm late in doing this. But I feel I understand my position much better now. 
I am of the same basic position I was before I decided to take this step. before I 
espoused Christ, and followed the Church. 
when I attacked homosexuality and tried to 
persuade homosexuals to change their 
ways and I am in· the same position now. 
My basic position remains Catholic, Christ­
ian. and conservative. 
OBSERVER: How do you plan to react to general social opposition? DEARAGON: Case by case, and as things happen. I hope I would be able to react well. I'm not an exceptional person, just 
your ordinary Joe Blow. I'm not filled with pOise, repartee, and other natural defenses 
that arc going to help me. I just hope that I can respond in a way that people react towards me. Before I stated my position, I felt an inner turmoil. I didn't know what I was fighting. I'd rather know who is against me and who is for me. OBSERVER: You mention christianity quite frequently, yet the established Catholic attitude toward homosexuality is quite negative. So what brought you to Notre Dame? 
DEARAGON: I had no internal turmoil when I came to Notre Dame. I got here, and was quite ready to accept the Church's stand on homosexuals. I came here because I am a religious person. The help I hoped to receive is the help of my religion, the help any person expects to receive, and I had to pray because my conscience was taking a position contrary to the Church, and my conscience saying to me you are an integreted person, a whole and entire person. So I had to take a long look at what I was doing. I prayed a lot over Christmas vacation. After six or seven years of no experience, I would stop by the Grotto and ask Our Lady to keep me safe on a trip to Chicago; don't let me do anything. We!!. it didn't work out that way. I did have an engagement with two people. If that hadn't happened, I might not have had to confront the issue. But I did confront the issue, something I put before the Lord in 
prayer.  
OBSERVER:  How has thi s affe cted your  
family life?  
DEARAGON:  The  same  way  it  would  

affect your family life, I suppose, if you wrote home and said "I'm a homosexual." My mother and three sisters live in Phoenix, my father is dead. She probably wouldn't understand, and my sisters would love to spout off about how the Catholic Church is wrong, and give credence to the 
photograph of a homosexual. surface of things, what is the conscience and unconscious. Psychologists say the 

unconscious is feminine, so that puts me in touch with the feminine. One myth I would like to put rest is that homosexuals, or haptic persons, like to behave like a woman. If I have to suppress anything, the only instinct I have to suppress is being chauvanistic, machismo, the same as any other male. And my being a very feeling person gives me an insight into what is happenning underneath the conscious level, and to sec trends in society on a deeper level than most people experience. If our society was right, which I think it isn't, I feel I would be protected from worrying about my sexual proclivities at a!!. I would be a valuable person in society. As it is I feel my role is denied, but I have a role. Women's role is to be earth-people, to nurture life in some way, not just in the womb. Men tend to abstract the principles of what things are about. We all have a role. I would have preferred not to have played the role of publicly defending myself as one categorized as a homosexual. As one who is now a spokesman, I would have preferred to be in a position of just 
~~I used to go to gay bars--1 don't like them, I think they're the saddest places-· I would go home and be filled with desire, and I couldn't understand why." 
groups, I was prayed over, and I was "cured," because now I realize the only thing I had to be cured of was my lack of character which led me to accept other people's norms. In that sense, I was cured. But as for being changed in my sexual orientation, I was rea!!y not true to myself. Because I fell in love with a _girl, I felt that I was whole. I used to go to gay bars I don't like them, by the way, I think they're the saddest places --and I used to trv to persuade the people to go straight. Then I would go home and be filled with desire, 
and I couldn't understand why.! would do this night after night, and I was just dccieving myself. I lived under this delusion. I came to Notre Dame and I was stripped of all my defenses. Then I came to realize the vulnerable position that I was in. Seeing Sgt. Leonard Mat!ovich on TV rca!!y helped me, because here was a person who was completley sane, good, healthy, of moral character and integrity, and I identified with him strongly as a person who was strongly indealistic. This 
myth that the Church marries homosex­uals. It hasn't affected my family life at all, because I'm not communicating with them. OBSERVER: Could you define your sexual morality; do you practice sex exclusively as an extentlon of love? DEARAGON: I cannot define it apart from love. In fact my experience over Christmas was enough to make me want to part with gay morality. I'm not -gay, I don't even like the term. I 1escribe myseif as a "haptic" person. someone who tends not to go by logtcal standards, but more by feeling and by wanting to experience something through his own feeling rather than by logical deduction. I am a happy person. 

OBSERVER: Sexually as well? 
DEARAGON: Though I seem illogical, I feel that in the total picture I am logical, some science we have not yet discovered. I fee! I have a definite role in society, not just as someone longing to be free, I believe God made me that way in order that I mav discern what is beneath the being 6-3, 2501bs., and being able to punch anybody in the mouth if they said anything I didn't like. I feel I know my role well, because I have had to look at it again and again and again, forced by Church and society. OBSERVER: Are you a member of Gay Liberation or have any affiliation with It on campus? DEARAGON: No. My personal philos­ophy is to live free. Because of my 
philosophy, I don't tend to belong. 
OBSERVER: You don't feel a greater 
responsibility to••• DEARAGON: I feel I am exercising my 
responsibility in as much as I can as well as a liberationist, because they haven't dared to come out in public and say who they are. Part of Notre Dame is very much a separationist creed, from society. NO is very exclusive. Gay Liberation is also very exclusive. I stand for myself. I don't know a single person who is gay on campus. Love is more improtant to me. I will never have a relationship apart from love. Now 

j 
j 
I 
l 
I 
I 
I 
I 
l 
l t t I I I I I i 
l 
I I 
l 
I I I ., I 
j l I 
j I 
that I have declared myself, it doesn't 
mean that I will have any affairs. 
OBSERVER: So you don't see yourself 
psychologically imbalanced in any way? DEARAGON: No. 
OBSERVER: Ifyou had a choice between a 
homo-or herersexuallife, which would you 
take? 
DEARAGON: Now you are putting things 
into categories. There are only people. I 
don't want to be other than what I am, 
what I was meant to be. 
OBSERVER: You seem to have quite a 
developed philosophy. Do you think this 
typical of homosexuals? 
DEARAGON: No, I would say I'm rather 
atypical. 
OBSERVER: Do you have any concept of 
what would constitute the typical homosex­ual attitude? DEARAGON: The typical attitude is a lack of identity, though homosexuals arc coming more into their own in the community. But they are wholly promis­suous. If I make a commitment, It must be a commlttment of total love, and could not be promiscuous In any way, therefore, I could not easily move in gay life, because promiscuouty Is assumed. The heterosex­ual is enhanced, held up for his sexual exploit, but the homosexual is looked down upon, as if he is some evil force. So 1must, 
in justice, fight this. OBSERVER: Now that you are openly declaring yourself, what do you see as your future? 
DEARAGON: It's going to be touch-and­go. I can't see what is ahead, I don't know how things are going to hit me. I will probably receive the most flak from my own department, the Physics Department, because people in science tend to be most rigid in their thinking. I am much more than just a haptic person. I am a person that wants to make the world better for this generation and generations to come. I'm the type of person who wants to love as a Christian. And so I expect many favorable things to happen as well, many people who will be extremely gratifying and enjoyable. 
1see myself as a human being. A human being, with intelectual, with much creativ­ity and positive value. The fact taht I feel well about myself made me impelled to do what I'm doing. OBSERVER: Then you are not apprehen­sive at all? DEARAGON: I may lose friends, I may have serious repurcussion with some people 1really depend on, but I may gain friends. I will really know who my friends are, whereas you may never know. OBSERVER: Thank you, Mr. Dearagon. 

,./
.•• []\0 
the observer Thursday, March 4, 1976 

Lockheed loses business because· of bribes 
TOKYO AP -A big Japanese resigning "to take responsibility" trading firm trying to repair an for Marubeni's coming under pub­image hurt by the Lockheed payoffs lic criticism, but Marubeni officials scandal shuffled its top executives said this did not mean the company 
Wednesdsay and said it would not was involved in alleged payoffs by do any new business with Lock­Lockheed Aircraft Cort. 
heed. A spokesman said Marubeni, Hiro Hiyama, board chairman of previously Lockheed's sole agent in Marubeni Corp., said he was Japan, will not sign any contracts 
ND-SMC Phi Beta Lambda held first state conference 
by Terry Kerley Mr. Future Business Executive; 
Staff Reporter Gary Woods of Notre Dame, Busi­
ness Administration; and Mollie 
The N D-SMC chapter of Phi Beta Murphy of St. Mary's, Ms. Future Lambda. the honor society for Business Executive. business students, hosted its first The winners of these contests are state conference Feb. 20-21. now eligible for competition in their Participating in the conference areas at the national conference, to "ere Indiana Central and Ball State be held in Washington, D.C., June University. as well as the SMC-ND 27-29. group. The local chapter of Phi Beta 
Events of the weekend included Lambda was founded last year by a ~tate contests and a talk given by small group of St. Mary's and Ed\\ ard Burakowski. assistant di­Notre Dame students. Its purpose rector of the national chapter of the is to promote the development of 
Phi Beta Lambda organization, on business capability in the college .. How Phi Beta Lambda Can Bene­
student. 
fit You... 
Dr. Joseph Sequin of the 
The meeting closed with an Managemnet Department at Notre awards luncheon at the Morris Inn, Dame is the group's advisor, and where Jerry Miller. former mayor 
Joe Bury is its current president.of South Bend, was the featured Any member of the ND-SMC 
speaker. community interesred in joiningWinners of the state contests the Phi Beta Lambda can contact were Bob Craigie of Notre Dame, Bury at 8214. 
Moot court finals Saturday 
The  final  rounds  of the  Notre  
Dame  Law  School  Moot  Court  
competition  will  take  place  this  

Saturday night at 8 p.m. in the Library Auditorium. Thi~ year's case is an anti-trust 
action. An alleged ·agreement between banks to buy a .certain type of automated banking ma­chine encoding device has fore­closed Petitioner from the automat­ed teller machine market in the state of Pacific. Petitioner brings the action under the Anti-Trust Laws. 
The problem was devised for the National Moot Court Competition held this fall. In that competition, the Notre Dame team finished fourth out of over 200 competmg teams. 
The Moot Court Program is designed to perfect appellate advo­cacy skills. The arguments are conducted in the same manner as arguments held before the Sup­reme Court of the United States. 
This year's distinguished panel of judges will be the Honorable Tom C. Clark, Retired Associate Justice of the Supreme Court; Honorable Thomas E., Fairchild, Cheif Judge of the United States Court of Appeals, Seventh Circuit; and Honorable Edward F. Hennes­sey. Chief Judge of the Massachus­etts Superior Court. 
image likewise will be damaged by the case. 
The party's deputy secretary­general, Jyushiro Komiyama, said wednesday that recerit surveys showed support for the party averaging 40 per cent before the scandal and 15 per cent after it was revealed. 
Meanwhile, sources said the Liberal-Democrats have agreed with the opposition parties to hold further parliamentary hearings on the case. 
The sources said it had not yet been decided whether further hear­ings would be held in the budget committee or in a special select committee. 
to promote new Lockheed products but will keep existing contracts to deliver parts and other services to clients. 
At a news conference, officials said that to "improve checks and balances" at the executive level, the once-powerful office of pres­ident had been replaced by four secretaries and four directors, who are to share administrative respon­sibilities. 
Directors testify 
Two weeks ago, two managing directors of Marubeni resigned after testifying in parliamentary hearings that they had signed receipts for Lockheed for "pea­nuts," "pieces" and "units" with­
out knowing what these represent­ed and without receiving any payments. They and Hiyama all denied allegations that they had suggested or handled Lockheed payments to Japanese government officials in efforts to boost Lockheed sales here. The parliamentary hearings were aimed at learning the names of any Japanese government officials 

8 mi. N. of State Linewho received bribes. 
Testimony and reports by Lock­heed to a U.S. Senate sub-commit­tee last month acknowledged pay­
Take 31 to Niles then North on 51 
I

offs of more than $12 million in 
Japan since the early 1950s. Lockheed officials said some of the 
3 miles. 683-9842 
ese government officials. 
One sign of Marubeni's image problem came when Mayor Takeshi Itavaki of Sapporo. capital of 
Japan's northermost is land of Hokkaido, said the city government would refuse to let Marubeni contract for Sapporo public works. He said it would be improper to maintain connections with a company under public criticism for its business practices. 
Party Image damaged 
Prime Minister Takeo Miki's probe into the case is motivated in part by fears by his Liberal-Demo­cratic party that the entire party's 

Counselors for Petitioner are Kevin Gallagher of Illinois and June Gottschalk of Ohio. Counsel­ors for Respondents are Dennis Bonucchi of Michigan and Kath­



$AYE
leen Comfrey of Massachusetts. The counselors are all third year 
law students. WITH THESE 
MONEY SAYING 
COUPONS THRU 
MARCH 14 
3 LOCATIONS TO SERVE YOU 
710 W. McKINLEY AVE.-MISHAWAKA (Town & Cour:ltry Shopping Center) 
1702 S. MICHIGAN -SOUTH BEND 
1807 LINCOLNWAY EAST -SOUTH BEN 

-------~--~~-~--~----~----------------------­
_I 
Thursday, March 4, 1976 the observer 
7 




Mozambique prepares for war with Rhodesia 
footmg. The move follows a "hot bique has made clear its intention the Rhodesian war, in which 732 ambique, with its criucal economicMAPUTO Mozambique AP ­of doing this. In our view, the step guerrillas and 84 Rhodesian troops problems under Machel's Socialistpursuit" raid into Mozambique last The revolutionary Marxist govern­they have taken emphasizes the have been killed in three years. revolution, is ready for an all-out
week by Rhodesian troops chasing guerrillas. Machel called the raid 
ment of Mozambique closed its gravity of the situation for Rhode­Such a move has been rumored war. However. Mozambique has a800-mile border with white-ruled sia," a spokesman in London said. for weeks and unconfirmed reports battle-hardened army of 10,000·an act of war. 
Rhodesia Wednesday and put the In Washington, White House said Soviet tanks were being un-which fought a 10-year guerrillanation on a war footing. 
Press Secretary Ron Nessen said loaded at the Mozambique port of war against Portuguese colonialEconomic sanctions President Samora Machel an­
President Ford "is concerned Beira. forces until the nation was gramednounced the closure of the frontier about the situation in Southern Many observers doubt that Moz-independence last June 25.
Machel said communicationsin a radio broadcast from the 
Africa." He said Ford hoped any 
with Rhodesia would be cut and ~IDDIIIHIDDIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIHIIIIIIIII-LIIWMinillliliihlltiUICII~
presidential palace and said all 
declared that his impoverished political changes in the regionRhodesian property and assets East African nation was applying could be "bought about peacefully 
i THE POSTER PLACE i
here would be seized. 
without resort to violence." Machel. whose country provides landlocked former British colony. i ~ sanctuary to thousands of black Well-placed sources here viewed Economic impact !§ 100 11 x17 POSTERS only $10.00 § 
full economic sanctions to the 
Rhodesian guerrillas fighting the the move as a saber-rattling ges­regime of Prime Minister Ian ture rather than a signal for The closing of the border, gate­5ii § 5 Smith, said a "state of war" exists way for between 25 and 40 per cent
all-out shooting war. 
with Rhodesia and urged the Britain, which recently stepped of Rhodesia's imports and exports, =_!_ 
insty-prints 1 
country's 8.5 million people to up pressure on Smith to move is expected to have a serious begin building air raid shelters. toward black majority rule in impact on Rhodesia's already ailing 203 N. MAIN ST. I 
The Ministry of Information later Rhodesia, welcomed the economic economy. But a Rhodesian spokes­S E 
man in Salisbury said it would hurt ~ SOUTH BEND 289-6977 isaid Machel had not declared war sanctions. 
Mozambique even more. = = but simply put the nation on a war ''Since independence, Mozam-
How far Machel is willing to SiliiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiUIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIHIIIIHIIIMIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII~ 
support Rhodesian guerrillas in their hit-and-run war with the

Accomplished voice major 
white minority government was not clear. 
Some 3,000 black nationalist guerrillas are poised on the west­
Valerie Manzic. an applied voice Choir. and the Madrigal Singers. ern border for attacks inside Rhod­major at St. Mary's College. will Manzic has performed leading esia and 10.000 others are reported present her junior recital on Thurs. roles in the Opera Workshop .. training at bases in Tanzania to join March 4. at 8 p.m. in the Little She has studied a the American the units at the border. Theatre. located in Moreau Hall. Institute of Musical Studies in He called on all Socialist" coun­
The program will include songs Graz. Austria, for the past two tries to come to Mozambique's aid, by Pepusch. Schubert. Wolf. Cop­summers. While there she was an apparent reference to the Soviet land. Debussy. and Donizctti. Kit coached by Kurt Equilloz. leading Union and China. Birskovich Fisher. a 1975 graduate tenor at the Vienna Staatsoper. It was also not clear whether -as of Saint Mary's and part-time in Angola -Machel plans to bring instructor in music will accompany She performed on the Concert Soviet arms and Cuban troops into 
on the piano and harpsichord and Studio under the direction of Herr John Fisher, instructor in music. Professor Hermann Reutter of Stu­will accompany on the alto record­ggart. West Germany. 
cr. Manzie is the daughter of Dr. A member and soloist with the and Mrs. Michael Manzie of Indi­Women's Chorus. the Collegiate anapolis, Indiana. 

to hold recital tonight 
ND-SMC social commissions to sponsor dance ma~athon 
The Notre Dame and St. Mary's among the numerous awards given social commissions will sponsor a throughout the marathon. dance marathon for Multiple Scler­Meals for the dancers are being 


~~~D 
SMC 
THEATkt 
William Saroyan·~ 

MY HEART'S IN THE HIGHlANDS 
With HEUO OUT THERE as ontain raiser. 
{In ron junction with the national Biam­tennial Festival-"An Alrmst Chosen ~pie") 

Tuesday, Mardl9 at 8:15 P.M. 
O'LAUGHLIN AUDITORIUM St. Mary's ADMISSION FREE BY TICKETS 284-4176 
osis March 26-28 in the La Fortune donated by local merchants. 
PLUS MORE TO BE ANNOUNCED 
Ballroom. 
The registration fee is five "The main purpose of the mara­
IN CONCERT dollars per couple and must be paid thon is to raise money for Multiple at the Student Government office Sclerosisi," Charlie Moran, mara­

Sunday March 28 ACC 
by 4 p.m. on March 26. Rules and thon chairman. said. "We want the dancing schedule will be distri­students to take the attitude of 
Tickets go on sale at A CC and Student Union 
buted with the application forms. helping fight MS. not just to enter Winners will be determined on for the prizes." 
$6 & $5 Student Union & Sunshine Promotions 
the basis of total hours danced and Additional information is avail­~ the amoun of money received from able from the Notre Dame Social Commission.
~ _ _thcl, "'"'n'o". A'"h p•i>c will be 


Classified Ads 
YPPAH YADHTRIB, WANTED Let's go Flo!PartY902 N.D. Ave. Sat. O'NEILL. EVOL., MAL. Ride needed to around, nearby, or 
Mano:h 6. Ladies with sunglasses in
Summer houses and rooms for rent­
even in the area of CHAPEL HILL, 
free. To Boris & Vladimir:
Ride needed for two going to real close to campus. Furnshed.
N.C. for spring break. Will provide 
Why do you call me?

Daytona Beach. Call Bill or Chris Ridiculously reasonably. 233-2613 or
usual demands for transpo. 288­ISH A 
6815. 232-7263.
8417. 
LOST & FOUND Coming attraction:
2 rides to and from Massachusetts For rent: furnished houses, two to
Desperately need ride to Indian Mea Ferrara's B-day, Sunday,
for spring break. Call Sally 7942. this Friday, seven bedroom, available tor Sep­
apolis return Sunday. 
Keys lost, Flanner B. B. courts, Call March 7. · 
tember.or June. Call 234-9364.
Call 4067. 
1026.

Give me a ride to Champaign, Ill. on Dear Addidas, size 8 (narrow),
Fri., March 5. Call Pal 1956. For Rent: 4-bedroom home. N.D. 
Lost -a N.D. '77 class ring Thurs. t need a hint. You say "Chris­
area. $350 per mo. & utilities. 
nile between Bengal Bouts and tlopher" was close? Love ya,
Wanted: one rider to El Paso, Texas 616-445-3543. 8 am-5 pm.
FOR SALE 

Senior Bar. If found call Lou Name-dropperfor spring break. John 8850. 
272-3816. Dear Campus, et al,
Ride needed to Pittsburgh Tuesday, For Sale: Ektelon "Beau Mark" 
Lost -2 St. Mary's school rings. It I love my baby bear and my baby
March 9. Call 6979. NOTICES
racquetball racquet (metal) with 
found call 4394. bear loves me. How can 1 make her cover. Just restrung with staytite, 
understand?

Wanted: ride to Minnesota (St. Paul) rubber grip. Perfect condition. $25 Keys lost: vicinity of Library bar. 
on Wed. March 10th. Tom 6898. Typing · former executive secretary
or best offer. 277-2306. 
Call 289-9790.

experienced in senior essays, disser­Need ride to Tidewater, Va. for tations. 232-5715.
Florida forEaster?Avoid the airlines ~~in-Acc~;;ct;-;0~:-;;ld\ 
HEY SC-SC-SC-SC-SC-SC-SC­

spring break. Will help with ex­strike and ouy a '68 Buick LeSabre 
braided wedding band. Reward SC-SC-SC-SCUM BAGGIO!!!
penses. Call Tom 8938. A Very Natural Thing. Gay Com­
in good condition. Call 233-5030 7 offered no questions asked. 277.
munity of Notre Dame. Hotline 8870
pm . 12 pm for details. 
1568 or 283-7516.

WANTED: 2 RIDES TO LOUIS­Fri. & Sat. 8-10 pm. Or write P.O. 
Happy birthday Peter! We hope

VILLE FOR BREAK. CALL CAROL Box 206.
For Sale: Blank 8-track 90 min. 
Lost: 1 gold Bulova watch, inscrip· Harold Hill has a wonderful day.
OR MAUREEN, 6834 or 1715 
Memorex tapes at a bargain price. 
tion on back. Reward. Call Dave Thanks for being our favorite
Attention Minnesota Club
Call Lisa, 8089. 
1633. "Music Man"!
I need a ride to Boston for spring members· anyone who has or needs break. Will share driving and ex­a ride contact me....TDro 6898. 
Love, The InfernoDisneyland murals from Mardi Gras Lost· gold men's Benrus wristwatch penses. Call Sheila 1253. 

tor sale. Call 1348. 
in front of Walsh. 1875.

Accurate, fast typing. Mrs. Donoho, 
Shall we dance? Waltzing party,

Want ride to and from Denver over 232-0746.
For Sale: 1971 red Mustang. Good Found: black umbrella at the bas­March 6, 7:30 p.m. LaFortunespring break. Will help drive and 
cond. Call 8678. ketball game last nile. Call 1185. ballroom. Tix $1.50 NO Music Dept.
pay for gas. Call Jim 3258. Late Stratus: Quality Rock 'n' Roll at evenings or at lunch. reasonable rates. Neil 289-9763. 
Anyone interested in participatingFOR RENT in the Mock Convention as a

Desperately need to buy vehicle able 1BM Selectric II typing. Manus­PERSONALS delegate or alternate contact:to transport. Less than $60.00. Call cripts, dissertations. Experienced. 
1108. For rent next year . 5 bedroom, 2 289-5193. Mary Beth Miracky, 7813. All states bathroom furnished home, 9-month ---------~----­
welcome. Kathleen (or is it Michelle??),
Desperately need any NCAA tix. lease, near campus. Call 234-2626. Earn $250.00 per thousand stuffing, 
Why don't you come by for some Party · 
Call Laura 4264. Any Price!! addressing envelopes at home. Send 2 rooms for rent $40. Call 233-1329. $1.00 plus self-addressed envelope good music some time? Just leave All /OU SMC babes Are invited to the tapes at home. the Campus View celebration Friday
Ride wanted to Lombard, II. Friday to Heskey Associates, Box 821 FZ. 
Jim Beam !light.
March 5 or Saturday. Call Carol at 4,5,6 bedroom houses completely Covington, Ky. 41012. 6888. 
furnished. Extremely nice, real Miracles beware 1! Party-Heeyyy, come catch a bun at
close to campus. September 1976, Morrissey Loan -last day to take out 
You are now in a jungle. Bossy's pre-break 12-kegger at
Need ride If Dayton for 2 this 9-month lease. 233-2613 or 232-loans is Mar. 12. 
Y.S. Campus View Community Center.

7263.
•week•~nd P:-"asecall K.B. at 4--~~?7. 
Friday night 9 till 3 a.m. 



~--~-----------~ -­
( 
the observer Thursday, March 4, 197_6
8 



-" Batton not a big name, but making the big play for ND 
by Fred Herbst score when called upon. being at the top of the key gives me As the season progressed and a running start towards the offens­He's not the star of the team. He Notre Dame encountered more and ive rebound." While he enjoys his doesn't get a lot of publicity. But more zone defenses designed to outside role, Batton doesn't mind Dave Batton is an important man to stop the strong inside game of playing under the basket when the the Notre Dame basketball team. Dantley, Batton was moved out to situation dictates. "I don't mind 
More than a few times this season the key area where he could better playing underneath, the part of myBatton's play has been instrument­utilize his outside shot and relieve game that needs work is taking the al in Irish wins. some of the pressure on Dantley ball to the basket , " he said. "l see myself as the guy who is underneath. "In order to break 
the all-around type of player," he open the zones we played against, I field, Pa. is pleased with the play of savs: "1 try and get the ball to the had to hit those shots," he ob-the team this season and is eager to op-en man. and when Adrian (Dant­serves. 
start play in the NCAA Tourna­
lcy) is being double-teamed I can Batton enjoys his role against ment. that we
"We're confident 
score.·' Luckily for the Irish, Batton zone defenses. "I like to play can go to Philadelphia and win the 
owns a fine outside shot and can outside," he remarked. "Besides, NCAAs," said. would
he "We have been a lot more confident if we'd beaten Marquette, but good teams don't stay down." 
Batton hasn't set many goals for himself while at Notre Dame. "You can't set that many goals like scoring and that when you have a guy like Adrian Dantley in front of you." he pointed out. "I just go out and play to the best of my abilities and give 100 per cent. That's my only real goal." 
Not being a big-name player has hurt Batton somewhat. He would like to play on the Olympic team this summer, but as of yet he hasn't received an invitation to tryout. "If I get an invitation I'll tryout, but I don't think I will," he said. "I'm just not known well enough." 
Despite his lack of publicity. he is confident of his ability to play the game. Batton feels that he is capable of playing pro basketball and would like to give it a try after graduation. "I think I can play professional ball," he said. "If I get an opportunity I'll give it a shot. I've always wanted to, every kid that plays basketball dreams of becoming a pro. 
Dave Batton considers himself to be an all-around ballplayer and works If Batton doesn't receive a lot of hard on his defensive play. (Photo by Chris Smith) credit for the success of the Irish
Rich Odioso 
·:=:===============:=:=:=======================:===================:=================:=:===================:=:=========:=:=:=:=:=:=======================:=====:=======================:=======:=====:=:=========:==== 

Extra Points 

A segment of the Notre Dame community is up in defensive player but no on who shoots as he does (or arms over the selection of Indiana's Scott May as doesn't) shouldneverbe even a third team All-America "Sporting News" Player of the Year. A number of G-Andre McCarter, UCLA-Something was lost in subscription cancellations are already in the mail and his transcontinental journey from ''best since one student was heard to mutter, "If C.C. Johnson Chamberlain in Philadelphia" to "worst point guard 
Spink were here, I'd throw punches." at UCLA in years." 
Statistically the argument for A.D. seems ironclad. ALL-UNDERRATED-The reverse of the AII-Repu­Over the last two seasons Adrian Dantley has scored taion, these are players whose abilities have never more points than any other player in college been properly appreciated. basketball. Yet he is not a gunner in the classic Pete F -Mitch Kupchak, North Carolina -The peopleMaravich sense of the word. A.D. is averaging just who have watched the ACC all season voted him, not over 17 shots per game. He has rebounded at 10 per Phil Ford, John Lucas or Kenny Carr as the league's 
game, improyed his assist total and plays a rough, MVP. effective, yet foul-free defensive game. His scoring F -Mike Dabney, Rutgers -He's played in the average has not been achieved against McNeese State shadow of Phil Sellers all fours years at New and the like. In Notre Dame's eight biggest games Brunswick but it's he, not Sellers, who tops the of the year (UCLA 2, Maryland, Marquette, Scarlet Knights in scoring.Kentucky, lndjana, DePaul, Western Michigan) his C -James Edwards, Washington-This :7-footer is 
average is 27.4. His team has won 22 games, the the best center in the Pac-8 but no one's heard of him. third highest victory total in its history. G -Willie Smith, Missouri -Maybe it's his name 
But in order to understand what little logic there is but this 24.4 point scorer gets lost in the shuffle. behind the "Sporting News" selection, one must He's a great clutch scorer. realize the nature of the electorate that selects the G -Tate Armstrong, Duke -It was Armstrong, not Player of the Year. The SN Player of the Year is the Brad Davis, Mo Howard, Walter Davis or Tree one who gets the most votes for the SN All-America Rollins, who made the ali-ACC team and bumped
Squad. The voters are the general managers and John Lucas to forward. He hits 22.9 points per game. scouts of the two major professional leagues. So what ALL-NAME-These are the great names in collegeScott May has actually won is not "Player of the basketball, and the Southern Plains dominates the Year" but "Best Pro Prospect of the Year." team. The five winners are Otis Birdsong, Houston; Notre Dame has depended on Dave Batton's offensive play this season 
to ease the burden on Adrian Dantley. (Photo by Chris Smith) basketball team, it isn't because he With two years remaining you can isn't a good ballplayer. Anyone look for Dave Batton to become a playing on a team with an Adrian leader of the Notre Dame team. Dantley is going to be an unknown. and known. 

*Observer · 





Sports 
Irish icers ninth UPI All-America 
The 1975·76 United Press Intern•·
Notre Dame's hockey team has 
tlon1l AII·American college basktt·
been ranked ninth by the latest UPI 
b1ll ttlm:
poll. The Irish boast an 18-14-2 
HI. Class slate and close their regular season ScoH Mar, tndia.oa 6-7 Sr. 
Adrian Dantler, Notre Oomt 6·.5 Jr. 
on the road this weekend against John Lutas, Moryitml 6:3 Sr. North Dakota. Rich Walllintfon, UCLA 6·11 Jr. Ktnt BtnsDfl, Indiana 6-10 Jr. SKOnd Tum-PIIIl Sellen, Rul!trs; Phil
W. L. T. Pis. 
P'onl, North Caralln.; Bernard King, Ttn­
1. 
Michinn Ttch 1tl 27 I o 9~ 


ntlltei Milch Kupchtk, North Csrolina;.
2. 
lloslon u. [1 J lO 3 0 IS 

EITI Tatum, Morqutlll. 
s. Michilln 51. 20 14 1 77 
Third TNm-Ernit Gru,..d, TonntSSH;
4. Ntw Htm"h"t 13 5 0 64 
LtDft Douglos, Altbtmu ' nrrr Furlow, 
s. Minnuota 22 13 1 St 
Mldli1111 St.; Ktnny Carr, N. C. Slott; Ron
6. Srown 11 S o 47 
LH, Ortton. · 
7. Michiun 19 15 o 46 
HONORABLE MINTiON: Mar~uu 
I. Bowlin• Gre~• 21 1 29 
Johnson UCLA; Robtrl Parrilli, Centenary;
t. Notre Dam• ·a 14 7 ?6 
Quinn Buckner, Indiana; RitD'I Grttn,
10. [till Ciori<son 11 11 ' 10 
Michlun; Bo Ellis, Marquette; Eddit
(fit] Cornol' 11 o 1 10 
Owens, Lts Vtgas; Willit Smith, Missouri;
First JIKe vof!s in papn1tlr~i!i '" Un1fE:ti 
Lloyd Wtilon, Morquellt; Mike Dobnty,
Pnss lnttrnlti,.na: ro'l 
RUIIIII; Chucklt Willltms, KanSII St. 

May was the only unanimous selection for the team. Hercle (Poison) Ivy, Iowa State; Lafayette Threatt, 

Obviously some general manager or scout bought the ....................................................,,~
Oklahoma State and the dynamic duo-Jerry Jingles£
old argument that Adrian Dantley is not big enough to and Calvin Natt of NE Louisiana. Honorable mention 
play forward in the NBA. Or that A.D. can't shoot goes to Sinclair Colbert, North Carolina A&T, Boyd 
well enough form the outside to be an effective pro. Batts, Nevada-Las Vegas; Marcos Leite, Pepperdine, 

I,.. PRE-CANA !These may be valid arguments, they may not. DeCarsta Webster, Indiana State; Cedric Maxwell, Obviously Scott May is a great college basketball UNC-Charlotte and Tad Dufelmeier, Chicago Loyola. 
~ I
player and a sure fire pro star. But he is not the best Rookie of the year is split between Bernard (Looney) player in college basketball this year. Toone' of Marquette and Reggie Thuess of UNLV. 


I A special program for those I
A deluge of All-America teams are about to be ALL-Irish Opponent Team -These are the players selected but here are some other teams that should be who turned in the best performances against Notre 


I Notre Dame students and their I
released. Dame this year. ALL-REPUTATION-These are the prospects tagged F-Greg Sanders, St. Bonaventure (30 points, 13 of with can't miss labels, who somehow have. Not that 20 from the field) • 

Ipartners preparing for marriage. I they are bad ballplayers, just that their ability is F -Alex English, South Carolina (32 points, 11 of 19 vastly esceeded by their reputation. from the field) 
ISign up in the Campus Ministry I
F -Bo Ellis ,Marquette -More like the "Bombay C-Richard Washington, UCLA (averaged 27 pointsDuck" of college forwards than the Secretariat in two games, combined 24 of 33) F -Wesley Cox, Louisville -Cox has all the talent G -Johnny Davis, Dayton (38 points) 

I Office in 103 Memorial Library I anyone could ask for but he goes on vacation for 30 G -Lloyd Walton, Marquette (17 points of 7 of 8 minutes every game. from the field) 

I before Spring Break. I
C -Dave Corzine, DePaul -The best part of his Second team-F -Scott May, Indiana, and Jeff Tyson, game is his hairdo. Western Michigan; C-Rick Robey, Kentucky; G-John i I 
G -Quinn Buckner, Indiana • A pretty quick Lucas, Maryland and Butch Lee, Marquette. 

""~.... ......a............~:~.................il
~~~ 





