



Lindower named controller 
by Marti Hogan 
St. Mary's Editor 
Jason D. Lindower has been named controller at St. Mary's for this year. He replaced Sr. Rose Marie Canty who resigned July 1 as chief financial officer of the college. 
"Particularly I find the job challenging and interesting," said Lindower. The duties of the Controller include anything to do with fiscal resources and the ad-­ministration of college facilities (buildings and grounds). Although the title has been changed, "it's basically the same job as it was previously," he said. 
Lindower indicated that he does not anticipate many changes in his department. "I believe in evolu­tion, not revolution," he said. "One or two departments may change but nothing major." 
Prior to ·his appointment at St. 

Mary's, Lindower was assoctate professor of business adminis­tration and director of the under­graduate program in business at Indiana University Northwest in Gary. He served at St. Mary's from 1969-1973 as director of financial management and later as fiscal affairs vice-president. 
In 1973-74, he was the Assistant Eastern Operation Controller for Associates Financial Services Com­pany, Inc. He has alos been assistant professor of business administration and business office 
director at Elizabethtown College, Elizabethtown, Pennsylvania, and a tax accountant for Arthur Young and Co. in Toledo. 
A native of Toledo and a 1957 graduate of Manchester College, Indiana, Lindower received his MBA at Indiana University in 1959. 
"I'm very pleased to be back, " 

Carter seeks wide-ranging support 
by Gregg B. Bangs Executive Editor 
Democratic presidential nominee Jimmy Carter says he is seeking a convincing mandate that would "strengthen his hand if he reaches the White House," according to a story that appeared in the Septem­ber 5 New York Times. 
"I think it's important for us to win," he said, "to win with a broad base of support. I would rather have a 6 per cent victory in all the states that have a 15 per cant victory in 15 states and lose the rest of them." 
In accordance with that philo­sophy, Carter says he will try to avoid campaigning only in large 
• 
by Kevin M. Walsh Staff Reporter 

Since the spring of 1976, prices in the Huddle have risen, but according to Mr. Edmund Price, Director of Food Services at Notre Dame, the increase was unavoid­able due to the rise in the cost of food and labor. 
Price stated that the Huddle tries to be competitive with area stores in the prices charged for goods as well as the profits obtained from them. 
"We don't try to gouge anybody, but rather, we try to make the place as business-like as possible," Price said. He pointed out, however, that ''the Huddle must mark up things and act in a Ibusiness-like, way." 

In comparison with area super­markets, the Huddle prices are, in some cases, as much as seventy percent higher. But Price stated, "We try to keep prices slightly below what they are on the outside." 
For example, a 15 ounce package of Oreos at the E and L Supermar­ket on Eddy Street and at Thrifty Mart on U.S. 31 cost 93 cents. The same size package of Oreos at the Huddle costs $1.03. 
The difference in price between Dannon yogurt at the Huddle and at these supermarkets is even greater than that of the Oreo cookies. For an eight ounce container of Dannon yogurt, the Huddle charges students 60 cents. The same yogurt at Thrifty Mart costs 39 cents, and yogurt of a different brand name at the E and L supermarket costs 33 cents. 

Cigarettes are another item that costs more at the Huddle. Smokers pay 60 cents for a package of cigarettes at the Huddle which is a ten cent increase over last year. In comparison, most area super­markets are charging 55 cents for the same brands of cigarettes. 
Price, however, emphasized the fact that all profits from the Huddle benefit the students. 


Catholic vote could be vital 
by Barbara Breitenstein Carter, Ford aids believe, because Southern Baptist may be antithe­
Senior Staff Reporter of his stand on abortion and tical. 
because Carter is an outspoken Ford's strategy will include not 
The Roman Catholic vote could Evangelical Southern Baptist. only courting Catholic support, but prove to be the hinge to the "Carter clearly has a Catholic also, according to the Times, "A Presidential race this year, or so weakness,'' one Ford aide re­delayed-fuse, low-profile, come­Ford campaign strategists are pre­marked, and a Ford campaign from-behind bid by the President; dicting, according to a New York counselor added that being a an exploitation of the Ford-Carter Times story dated Sept. 5. strong Catholic and being a reborn debates, particularly the first of the 
The , President's strategy will include a concemrated attempt to win the vote of several m-illion 
******************** 
working-class Roman Catholics in the crucial battleground states of the East and Middle West, in­
CAMPAIGN 
cluding Michigan and Indiana 

This emphasis on the religious aspect is so crucial to Ford's strategy that Ford had considered opening his campaign at Notre Dame, but decided a kick-off speech here would be too blatant. 
.Ford will formally begin his cam­paign with a speech at his alma mater, the University of Michigan, on Sept. 12. while Carter will keep with tradition by opening his 
P.9.
campaign today, Labor Day. Catholics, ususally a core Demo­
******************** 

cratic group, are hesitant about 

senlOr p1cn IC 
Beer, hot dogs, great weather and the return 
of 'old friends combined to "l-ake the Senior 
Class Picnic last Friday an overwhelming 
success. 
Photo · · 
states when the official start of his 1976 Presidential campaign begins today in Warm Springs, Ga., the vacation home of the late President Franklin D. Roosevelt. According to the article, only the prospect of defeat would persuade Carter "to narrow down our focus." 
Regarding the type of campaign he will run, Carter said, "I want to get back into exactly the same campaign style and technique that I used in the spring, as much as possible, you know, with my new role." He will do extensive cam­paigning "in the shopping cen­ters" and at the factory gates. And although he is the supposed leader of the Democratic Party, he said, "I have to make sure that I don't assume the responsiblity for every­thing the Democratic Party has ever done n the past.'' 
According to the Times story, Carter said he had committed himself to politically difficult and controversial pledges, such as "re­organization" o( the Federal bur­eaucracy. He also said that the "mandate that's crucial to me" in carrying out quickly such promises could come only ''from a wide­ranging success among the elec­torate that would convince a reluctant Congress and bureaucra­cy that Carter got a firm base of support" throughout the nation. 
Carter also seemed to disagree with people who read the political situation. His own polls, which are conducted by Patrick H. Caddell, found that he was not as strong in the South as commercial polls published by newspapers and other media sources might indicate. However, he was "detectably" stronger in the rest of the country than the commercial polls found him to be. For this reason, he said, 'he could not slight the South and should not slight the rest of the country,'' according to the article. 
three, in-an effort to foster the  
perception of the incumbent as the  
more 'Presidential' of the two  
major party nominees; and the  
development of a 'flexible' staff  
and strategy, able to channel  
resources into states that develop  
as targets of opportunity as late as  
Oct. 1."  
Public and private opinion polls  
show that the contest is "so fluid it  
is unbelievable," Stuart Spencer,  
the President's political director,  
commented in the Times, and,  
accordingly, only tenative decisions  
are being made until after asses­ 
sment of the first Ford-Carter  
debate, scheduled for Sept. 23.  
"The overriding thing in this  
campaign is not the issues, " a  
senior Ford strategist commented.  
"but the perception of the two men  
as they deal with the issues. That's  
why the debates are so important.''  
Still, the abortion question could  
be important in dealing with the  
Catholic vote. - 
Ford's position on abortion is  
only a little more agreeable to  
church leaders, but the issue was  
not seen so much as helping Ford  
as hurting Carter.  
''Abortion,'' one aide com­ 
mented, ''is an issue that has made  
Catholics refrain at least temporar­ 
ily from automatically going to  
Carter." Ford supports an amend­ 
ment permitting states to regulate  
abortion.  
According to the Times story, the  
Catholic share of the total potential  
votes in ten key states is significant  
in that it involved states tenatively  
targeted for priority attention by  
the Ford campaign and that a  
sweep of all of them would give the  
1  
I  
J  


Monday, September 6, 1976
the observer 

~--News Briefs--­
t=======================lntemational 
South Africa Talks 
ZURICH Switzerland -More progress was reported Sunday after 4Vz hours of talks between South African Prime Minister John Vorser and U.S. Secretary of State Henry Kissinger on racial troubles in southern Africa. 


t-==::=:::==--=::=:::::=:::::=:::=========National 
End Surgery Mistakes 
RESTON Va. · Dr. H. Barry Jacobs says he wants to end bungled surgery by setting up a nationwide network of medical personnel to ride herd on doctors. 

Mule Wins Horse Race 
SACRAMENTO Calif -The winner of the Great American Horse Race, billed as the longest race of its kind in history, was a floppy-eared mule, named Lord Fauntleroy. 
With Vir! Norton of San Jose aboard, the mule galloped into the California state Fair on Sunday after a 3,200-mile canter from Frankfort, N.Y. Norton spent 315.47 hourrs in the saddle. 

Police Stop March 
LOUISVILLE Ky. -Riot-equipped police stopped a march of about 1,000 peaceful antibusing demonstrators as they approached Louisville's city limits Sunday night. The only incidents reported were the setting of several smal fires near the highway. 

FBI Director to Wed Ex-nun 
Kansas City-Clarence M. Kelley, who gL vote of confidence as FBI director Saturday from President Ford, announced over the weekend that he plans to marry a former nun sometime this year. 

Miss America Pageant 
ATLANTIC CITY N.J. -All women are created nearly equal at the Miss America Pageant, at least according to their physical measurements. 
The contestants are battling for the title of Miss America with its $15,000 scholarship and an anticipated minimum of $50,000 in bookintgs. The new Miss America will be chosen this Saturday night. 

Candidate Hit By Pie in Face 
NEW YORK 1 Daniel Patrick Moynihan was hit in the face with a mocha cream pie Sunday while he was campaigning for the Democratic nomination for U.S. Senate. 

Martian Earthquakes 
PASAIENA Calif. -Viking 2, at rest in the plains of Martian Utopia, began ''feeling'' the rocky slopes for signs of marsquakes Sunday. 
...,_.__On Campus Today----... 
7 p.m.-prelaw meeting, li~rary auditorium 
Catholics vital· 
(Continued from page 1) 
President 238 of the :nO electoral votes needed to win the election. 
"In the mathematical and demo­graphic election composite de­signed by Mr. Ford's aides, 'Ca­tholics are very important,' one Presidential aide acknowledged." 
"We think they're up for grabs," a senior campaign official concluded. 
The Observer is published /V1onday through Friday and weekly during the surrmet"" session, except during the exam; and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of the Univ. of Notre Dame and St. Ma-y's COllege. Subscriptions may be purdlased for $18 l$10 per serresterl fro11 The Observer. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Sealnd Cli!SS postage paid, Notre Dame, IN 46556. 

SMC Assembly 





Frosh cookout dates ~ighlight September activities schedule 
by Barb Langhenry Senior Staff Repor:ter 

The Freshman Year of Studies Office will be hosting a variety of activities for the freshmen this year. Emil T. Hofman, dean of the Freshman Year of Studies, stated that the activities provide a sodal outlet for the freshmen enabling them to meet people in addition to those in their dorms and classes. 
Cookouts are scheduled for the Fridays Sept. 17 and Sept. 24. They will be held in the courtyard behind the Freshman Year of Studies Office and will begin at 
8:30 p.m. Several professors of freshman courses will be present. Dean Hofman stated that this will allow the students to meet with their professors in ·a less formal 
Nevv faces 
dot hall staffs 
by Mary Reher News Editor 

With the arrival of seven new rectors and eleven new assistant environment than the classroom. 
October will brin,g two trips to the Dunes of Lake Michigan. On the Sundays of Oct. 3 and Oct. 10, 
buseswiiJ ~eave from Stepan Center 
at 11 a.m.' and return at 6:30 p.m. 
Lunch and dinner will be provided. 
On the morning of the Notre Dame-Oregon game, Saturday, Oct. 16, a continental breakfast will be served at an open house for the visiting parents of freshmen. Faculty members and members of the Freshman Year of Studies Office will be availble to meet with the parents. This event will begin at 9:30 a.m. and last until I I :30 a.m. 
Dean Hofman also said that he is hoping to hold other events near the end of the first semester and in the second semester. There are tentative plans to show old movies, such as the Andy Hardy films, and feature juke box dances. 
Tickets for the cookouts and dunes trips may be picked up in the Freshman Year of Studies Office from Monday through Wednesday of the week prior to each event. 

Close to Campus NOTRE DAME AVENUE APARTMENTS 2 bedrooms -Completely Furnished $260.00 per·Month Up to 4 Stude~ts 23.3-6363 or 234-6647 
rectors, Assistant Vice-President~------:;:========================:;
for Student Affairs Fr. Terrance 
Lally called this year the "most 
drastic changeover in hall staffs." 
"What was really helpful in selecting rectors were the inter­views with the prospective rectors by committees composed of five to seven staff members and stu­~ents •." Lally stated. After being mtervtewed by the committees, the candidates for rector were ques­tioned by Lally and then approved by Vice President for Student Affairs, Brother Just Paczesny, Provost, Fr. James T. Burtchaell and University President Fr. Theo­dore M. Hesburgh, Lally said. 
"This year I wtll oe mucn rreer ttl selecting rectors,'' Lally observed, "since I have been given the sole responsibility for the hall staffs. However, the selections will still be subject to the approval of Frs. Hesburgh and Burtchaell,'' Lally added. 
Last year's interviewing commit­
tees consisted of more staff mem­
but I doubt that we would,'' he 
said. 

Regarding the hiring of a mar­
ried person as a rector Lally stated, 
"I am very interested in this. The 
bers than students, he pointed out. . Next year he hopes to get more students on the committees. 
"What we look for in a rector is a person receptive to students con­cerns," Lally said. "He or she must be fond of students and show care and compassion toward them. To do this the rector must have 
good self-assurance," he added. "Whether or not we would hire a non-Catholic or not, I don't know, (Continued to page 7) 
FAST 
TYPEWRITER 
SERVICE 



Tile Fireworks .Festivall 
musiC, food, refreshments and fireworks 
Frldey September 10-rock and roll featuring 




BROWNSVILLE STATION 
and the electric blues of 
LUTHER ALLISON a~d MAGI 
Sunday September 12 country & western _ Saturday September 11 

rock from Detroit 
NARVEL FELTS

FRIJID PINK 
and formerly of Ides of March and South Bend's own 
Jim Peterik 
Sout~ S~ore 

a1d Fi1als of and TOUCH 
Blackstole, 
Battle of The h•ds 

battle of the bands 11:00 a.m. · 7:00 p.m. daily! 
•anuy Fireworks Display corn IOast/Sausage/Relreshments 

Ticketsc 57.50 for three day pass; 54.00 for Friday and Sunday individual day tickets; $3.00 for Saturday tickets and now on sale at the foUowing River City Review Ticket Outlets: Just For The Record (Mishawaka). Boogie Records (Mishawaka), Record Joint.(Niles), Suspended Chord (Elkhart & Goshen), Notre Dame Student Unicn, Pandora's (South Bend), Jennifer"s (Scottsdale Mall), World of Sound (Plymouth) and Cripe's Home Entertainment Ceater (Nappannee). Stay tuned to WRBR for further details. 
Outdoors at Wander Conservation Club 13040 Day Road-Mishawaka 

Directions from South Bend: Edison Rd. East to dead-end at Grape Rd. North I block to Day Road. TaJte, Day Road East 4 miles. Gat!'s open 4:00p.m. Friday, 11:00 a.m. Saturday and Sunday. · 
SENIORS!!!! This is it!!! 
YOUR LAST CHANCE TO. StGN UP 
FOR SENIOR PORTRAITS AND RETAKES WILL BE nilS WEEK, SEPT. 6-10, fN BOTH DINING HALLS DURING THE DINNER HOUR. 

(*The Observer1 members needed r~'Lll-rNtr'''l Nominations will be open from ~ GO.LF CENTER ~ Night Editor -John Calcutt September 7th to September 11th ~ 



{(1. '­
Asst't Night Editor • Joe for Student Assembly Representa-~ .. ~ ~ Bauer tives for McCandless Hall, Holy ~ .. layout -Rick Crane~ Cross Hall, Regina Hall, and Le r. · . ~ Copy Reader-Katie Kerwin Mans Hall. Three representatives ~ r. Day Editor -Sue Ballman are needed for McCandless, f~ur "NIGHT LIGHTED" ~ 
Editorials -Pat Hanifin from Holy Cross, two from Regtna .. 
· S b 9 HOLE • PAR 3 GOLF COURSE P.
Features-Tim O'Reiley North, one from Regtna out • one ~Driving Range 18 Hole Miniature~·\ Sports -Chip Spina 
~om LeMans, and two representa-~ Open Dawn Til 10,oo PM ~ Typists -Gwen Coleman, 
tives for off-c:'-mpus. . . LOCATED US 33 AT IRONWOOD .. 
Mary Anne Keefe, Rusty The deadline for nommations ,: 
SIGN-UPS FOR OFF CAMPUS
Espinosa and platforms is mi~night, _Sep_tem-. C ll I 288-0033J ~ 
Night Controller • Martha ber 11th. To submit nommations, 1 a ~ SENIORS WILL BE IN LA FORTUNE Fanning contact Carla Iacona, 413 Le Mans; J If Nn Ans Call 282-2366 · ~ LOBBY FROM 11 :00 A.M. TO 1:00'· Writer of the JNeek • Pat) ph. 4728. The eJections Will be t 171-' LINCOLN WAY EAST SO. IEI'iP ., 
P.M.
September 17th.... . ......,.,,.,..,..,..,.,.,.,...,.
• Hanifin 



.-. 
Graduate women moved into their new townhouses last Burns) week, unencumbered by par-
Monday, September 6, 1976 
the observer 

Townhouses open; no parietals 
by Cathy Cannon Staff Reporter 

The Notre Dame Townhouses for graduate women will have no parietal hours according to rector Sister Maria Garlock. 
"It's no big deal. It's an apartment-type situation rather than a dorm," she explained. 
Garlock said she thinks of the parietal rule in terms of protecting privacy in the dorms rather than as an instrument of enforcement for the university's stand on sexual morality. 
"In the townhouses, there is a living room and a half-bath down­stairs, so tnat it is unlikely a man would interfere with anyone's pri­vacy," Garlock indicated. "Fur­thermore, because the women live in small groups, there is more interaction between them. If someone feels her privacy is being infringed on. she .:an talk about it with a group," Garlock said. 
She hoped the complex will become a center for all graduate students. 
"When we moved'out of Lewis the students objected because there was no common room for socializing" Garlock stated. "We do have a common room here, and a larger room in back that will be fixed up and used for larger get togethers and liturgies. I hope a spirit will develop between people that will be different from life in an apartment house." 
The thirty-six units house four students each with the exception of two units equipped for the handi­capped. The units include a living room, completely equipped kitchen and half bath downstairs with four bedrooms and a full bath upstairs. Students pay $810 for a nine month school year. 
The two units for use by handi­capped students have a ramp leading to the door and an extra bedroom and specially equipped bathroom on the ground floor. 
"It's fantastic," said MBA stu­dent Mamie Anthoine. "The furniture, the kitchen. everything is a whole lot nicer than I expected . I haven't heard any complaints about anything." 
The director of Summer Session 
and Graduate Admissions, Re~. 
Robert Austgen, assigned women 
to the townhouses. He made the 
assignments on the basis ol a 
combination lottery and quota sys­
tem suggested by the Advanced 
Student Affairs Committee. 

"Since admissions letters from 
the different schools are sent out at 
different times,-this is the onlv fair 
way to do it." he explained. :.The 
quota was based on the number of 
single women in the law school. 
MBA program. and graduate 
school departments so no one 
single group would predominate ... 
Because of increased enrollment 
Austgen was unable to place all the 
women in the townhouses who 
wanted to live on campu~. 

Pollsters needed 
Anyone who desires to help poll 
voters for Democratic candidates . for the upcoming November elec­tions should contact Paul Falduto at 3508 or 3527. Falduto. a deputy registrar, will also register anyone who wishes to register to vote in 
room 225, Morrissey. 

Patching, painting proceed at ACC 
The renovation of the ACC roof will be completed in about four 
weeks, according to John Plouff. the Managing Director of the ACC. The roof is being painted for the first time in six years because of excL·ssive discoloration. 
Robert Loeffler. the Manager of Operations at the ACC. said the material being used is a type of plastic coating. Under a contract with the Clotex Corporation. the ACC staff has been testing several different paints. The result is a plastic protective covering which should be satisfactory for many years to come, according to Loettler. 
The process of renovation has been underway for four weeks, The work men first stripped off the old co~ting with a material known as "strip-ease". a highly effective paint remover. They are now patching the seams in the roof that have· holes or possible faults in them. Finally. the entire roof will be washed down and painted with two coats of the new protective plastic. 
-The approximate cost of the 
· operation is $40,000. according to a story published in the South Bend Tribune over the summer. 


America tix to be Carney '76 prize 
by Sue Ballman Staff Reporter 

Tickets for Carney '76 will be on sale for off-campus students in the library lobby Monday. September 6 through Thursday, September 9 from 1 p.m. to 4 p.m. and from 6 
p.m. to 9 p.m. They will also be sold from I p.m. to 4 p.m. on Friday, September 10 and when Carney opens that evening accor­ding to Nanette Buffalino of the Orientation Committee. 
Tickets for the picnic will be $3.15 per person. The picnic will include cold fried chicken. foot long hot dogs, potato chips. baked beans and watermelon: The picnic will start at 5 p.m. and food will be served until 6:30p.m. 
Father Hesburgh is scheduled to speak at the picnic. The Broadcast­ing Company Band will play on the South Quad from 7:30 until dusk. 
The Committee also has two America tickets to give away. Contestants must guess the loca­tion of the tickets by reading the clues presented in the Observer from Tuesday through Friday. There will be a box on stage in which contestants may drop their names. Names will be chosen from the box to guess the location of the · hidden tickets. 
.•. this card will let you call long distance from your room faster and at less cost than any other way. 
If you live in a residence hall, making a long distance call can be a hassle. 
You either have to call collect (and that costs extra), or wait in line at a pay phone with a couple of pounds of change in your pocket. 
Well, there's a way around all that. Get your free STUDENT BILLING CARD from Indiana Bell. A Student Billing Card lets you make long distance calls from the privacy of your room, and at direct-dial rates. That's a lot easier and more economical than any other way. Besides, there's no waiting in line, and you keep the change. To get your STUDENT BILLING CARD just call 237-8182. 

@Indiana Bell 
. ,•...: 
·.· 

..-----------------------------------------------------------------------------~---·------·­
*lJ~dQt;?.,~~rver 

Thomas O'Neil Editor-in-ChiefThe Observer is published ion of a majority of the Edito­Dan Sanchez Managing Editor by studentl. of the Univer­rial Board. Commentaries are Chris Smith Asst. Managing Ed. 

sity of Notre Dame and St. the views of their authors. 
Gregg Bangs Executive Editor Mary's College. It does not Column space is available to Val Zurblis Executive Editor necessarily reflect the policies all members of the community, Pat Hanifin Editorial Editor of either institution. The news and letters are encouraged to Bob Mader Exec. News Editor is reported as accurately and promote the free expression of Maureen Flynn Campus Editor 

as objectively as possible. varying opinions on campus. 
Marti Hogan St. Mary's Editor 

Editorials represent the opin-Don Reimer Copy Editor Business Manager Tom Fronczak . Tim O'Reilly Features editor Advertising Manager Mike Miller Fred Herbst Sports Editor Photo Editor Tony Chifari Production Manager Martha L. Fanning 
Monday, September 6, 1976 
Grand Re-Opening 
Darby's Place, that "clean.. well­lighted place" for late-night conversation and study, will re-open tonight in the La­Fortune Rathskeller. Although it was founded less than two years ago, it has already become a valuable addition to Notre Dame's social life and a spot particularly appreciated by night people, such as we who put out The Observer. 
Open from midnight to four a.m., Sunday through Thursday nights, Dar­by's is not merely a study hall for those who have procrastinated to the point of an all-nighter. Proprietor Darby O'Gill, Notre Dame's urbane and learned philo­sopher-in-residence, hosts a night-spot notable for its conversation and com­radeship. 
O'Gill himself is somewhat reserved (though his ocasional comments often have profound implications) so the talk is usually' sparked by the wit of his spokesman, Fr. Robert Griffin, who is also University chaplain. 
It was Griffin who originated the idea of Darby's Place and carried it to completion with the help of the Ombuds­man Service, then directed by Bill Mc­Lean, the legendary Wizard of Om. Cur­rently, coffee, doughnuts and soft drinks are provided by a dedicated volunteer staff headed by Joe Gill, O'Gill's protege and assistant leaf-chaser. 
The Place is an excellent example of what a "student center"should contain. Much effort and money, and even more talk, has gone into'the seemingly endless renovation of LaFortllhe. But that effort will be wasted if the fine new student center fails to attract students. What will make the renovated LaFortune a success are more operations like Darby's and its early-evening counterpart, the Nazz. 
more about you. Don't be turned 
off if things seem a bit more formal 
right now. People will get to know
Campaigl') Coverage 
The final phase of Campaign '76 gets underway today, with democratic nomi­nee Jimmy Carter making a speech at Warm Springs, Georgia. Republican incument Gerald Ford will kick off his campaign with a speech at his alma mater, the University of Michigan on September 12. In addition to the presi­dential race, there are hundreds of races being contested on the local, state and national level. 
But just how many people will know enough about the election c·ampaigns and views of the contestants to cast a responsible and presumably intelligent vote come election day this November 2? Although quite a few students subscribe to newspapers and weekly periodicals, the influx of political information to campus is still minimal. 
In. an effort to supply the Notre Dame-St. Mary's community with infor­mation about various campaign news and 
issues, The Observer has set up a politcal writing staff. Drawing on sources that range from newspapers to people to political campaign press releases, the staff will regulary produce articles on both presidential camps, Indiana politics on both the state and local level, various nationwide points of interest, .opinions of local leaders and scholars and interviews with both candidate, and political scho­lars. 
Most of these stories will not be fast news articles--they are not intended to be. In fact, most will be summaries designed to make political news available to students who want to take advantage of it. We hope many students will. 
you only if you let them. As a fellow student, I would like to take this opportunity to welcome you freshmen, and give a few insights I have had occasion to notice in my two years here. Most of the things I say here you will have to learn for yourself, but I hope that by reading this you may become a bit more aware of what's going on, so that you might be better prepared for the situation if it arises. 
Warning: 'the Notre Dame in­feriority complex. This develops when you see 15 people who can do whatever you thought you could do very well (and indeed, you probab­ly can do it very well), and do it 15 times better. Some upperclassmen won't help. They believe that they are too experienced, or too mature, or are too happily settled in their routine to be bothered by new faces, and fresh outlooks (yours). 
Luckily these people make up only 
the minority, and can be avoided, 
or ignored. The complex seems at
Crossroads Park 
Crossroads Park, constructed south of LaFortune during the summer, is a suc­cessful and concrete result of the LaFor­tune renovation project and of the Stu­dent Life Council's follow-through on the report of the Committee on Undergrad­uate life (COUL). 
The Park provides a pleasant spot for sitting and talking. It was designed by 1976 graduate Palll Linehan as a thesis project and was suggested as part of the slowly-developing LaFortune renovation. Bro. Just Paczesny and the Social Space Committee helped push the idea toward 
DOONESBURY
Creators 
Wanted/ 
The Observer editorial page needs columnists and cartoonists. Call )715 or come up and see us 
sometime. 
I 

the standards, and impr6vjng upon them, you will evolve and bloom as a person. You will get th~ personal, but sensational high that comes ·from knowing you have set your goals, and accomplished what you set out to accomplish. 
You must take time to find the opportunities to get involved, keep busy, and stay reasonably happy. Not all of these opportunites re­volve around sex or booze; those are "easy" short cuts that run out in the. long run. Use your imagination. We needmore imagi­nation around herec 
I know that the music depart­ment is already under full steam, the band, the choirs are now practicing and auditioning. Other clubs, volunteer services, and or­ganizations of all interests, from chess to sailing, hot-line to Logan Center, will be offering you1 infor­mation, and a chance tb get involved on Activities night, Mon­day, September 13. Watch for it. All these people will be in one place at the same time, and that doesn't happen too often around here. 
As I am sure you have learned in high school, any club experience.is­a horizon-widening process. Al­though it takes time, you'll dis­cover after the initial shock of college studying, that you will have time to give. You'll find that your personal growth and satisfaction dividends will far exceed your initial investment. 
So welcome aboard freshmen . As a student, I have come to love Notre Dame. It has much to offer, but it is not a one-way street by any means. Students here have much to offer Notre Dame. It is not always easy, it always takes work, but fresh ideas are needed here. Freshmen, you can give new ideas. 
Have faith in ypurselves, believe in your ideas, and please, do not be afraid or too unsure of yoursleves to join us already here in making our traditions a little better, more kind, more open, more loving, moreselfless, at this place we call Notre Dame. 
reality. The committee created as part of the SLC's work on the COUL Report, was partly made up of SLC members and was chaired by John Reid. The SLC, having agreed to the plan, was then instrumental in getting the Board of Trustees to allocate the needed money. 
We have sometimes been critical of the Student Life Council for talking too much and doing too little. But in this case, the Council, along with the Trustees, Paczes­ny andLinehan, have helped bring about a lasting improvement in the appearance and social life of the campus. 
Freshmen, Hello! (Again). 
I am sure by now you have been welcomed in many different styles, by many different poeple: the rector (rectress), the R.A. and the people around you. 
This profusion of welcomings, though friendly and well-inten­tioned, is official. It is always hard until people get to know a little bit 
. times unmanageable, expecially 
when you're tired, face a hard 
night of study, or when you'te just 
plain lonesome or homesick. · 
Inferiority feelings are naturar 
for newcomers here. They may 
ring strange, but it is true. When 
you face such high standards, it 
will be tough for you to realize that 
you are a part of all this. You are 
now. 
The high standards here may or 
may not be lived up to (it's not 
always necessary to live up to these 
standards to pass, some are not 
even academic); but by meeting 
1/t.t TH& af?R/..0 WHY THifT SON OF 
I OON'T KNOtU 

NE&IJS IS A /..OT fr/()R&UJWI IF 7HERf3 Y£5,
MIN& NEE{)S &XPe/QS YOU IS THEf30VE­
Y&5, MA:4t.f. 



WAS fri()Rg toV0/U3 MA'AM. 
JIMMY's OIJT THANK70 ?Et.L HIM WHAT's HAve? 

/JI()(J/..I)N7HAV~ ANY 
BACK, CATC/I!N' YOU; MA'AM.
JURONf3 WITH THe

IIJRHOM&? 
I 

Vltm/AI>'l OR 1/?Ei.ANO., /
I 
IJJO!WJ/ IV& KNOWN 
--fROf3S. 
__...FOR Yt:A/l.Sl 


Monday, September 6, 1976 
the observer 
5 

john wayne to japanese peasants --cinema '77 
dauid o'keefe 
The Cinema '77 Series of the Cultural Arts Commission begins its first-semester schedule tomorrow night with Michelan­gelo Antonioni's The Passenger, a provo­cative study starring Jack Nicholson and Maria Schneider. In this movie, Antonioni again demonstrates the reason why he is considered the master of the visual media. In the tradition of his earlier efforts (I' Aventura, Blow-np], he combines stun-· ning visual effects with interesting socio­psychological studies. 
Cinema '77 stands apart from other films shown on campus this semester because it attempts to coordinate a number of movies into one unified program in order to accomplish a goal. That goal, according to series chairman Sean. Coleman, is "to help foster an appreciation for film not only as a popular medium but as an art form as well." 
Coleman continues: "Film is not only a source of entertainment but also_ an 
,..-educational tool. This is the perspective the program offers-a more in-depth and comprehensive examination of film. A quick glance at the list of movies in the program gives one a good idea of just how. comprehensive a study the series offers. Actors from Buster Keaton to Walter Matthau, directors from Vincente Minelli to Francois Truffaut, and films from Japan to France to America. The schedule: 
Meet Me in St. IAiuis [Sept. 28-29]:This highly colorful musical is as idyllic and sentimental as a family photo album. Indeed, there are elements of family involved in this film as Vincente Minelli directs the girl he eyentually married, Judy Garland. While a bit thin on plot, this movie was intended as a vehicle in which Garland could showcase her musical talents. With the support of a strong score, she does so delig~tfully, 
Ugetsu [Oct. 5_-6]: If your only encounters with Japanese film have been B-class monster movies, you mig!Jt be pleasantly surprised by Mizoguchi's story of two Japan·ese .peasants who leave their homes and families to seek their respective fortunes. The fable is a bit heavily , moralistic but artistically the film is beautiful and simple, visually reminiscent 

of the lightness and sensitivity of Japanese painting. 
Our Hospitality [Oct. 26-27] : No film series would be complete without a great . silent fim star, and Cinema '77 offers one of the very best, Buster Keaton. Keaton's brand. of humor is timeless and Our Hospitality is Keaton in his prime. He portrays a New Yorker who inherits a Southern estate and becomes involved in a Hatfield-McCoy-style feud. Keaton liked to do his own stunts and was almost killed filming the waterfall scene in this film. He was taken to the hospital where they pumped water out of his lungs for two days. He was released from the hospital only to go back and finish the scene. Keaton is a favorite on college campuses and this film will be one of the most popular in the series. 
Thieves Like Us [Nov. 9-10] Robert Altman is one of America's best contempo­rary filmmakers. But with such films to his credit as M* A *S*H*, Nashville, and Brewster McCloud, he is also very difficult to classify. Thieves Like Us fits this non-pattern well. It is the story of two young lovers whgse lives are played as casual tragedy against the grays of Depression America. It is an intense and emotionally charged work and stars Keith 
Carradine and Shelly Duvall. 
Red River [Nov. 14] : Howard Hawk's classic begins the Series' weekof American Westerns. John Wayne (who else?) and Montgomery Clift play a father and son who seek to tame the land they own, only to find themselves in constant conflict with it and, eventually, with each other. Not just another shootemup Wayne Western, but a good solid study by a unique American director. 
The Gunfighter [Nov. 15] : Gregory Peck plays the paradigmatic Western hero, the gunslinger who tries to hang up his six-shooter only to discover that you can never really escape what you once were. A very strong cast rescues this film from what would otherwise be the depths of cliche. 
Sharie [Nov. 16] : It is too bad that these two films run on consecutive days because Shane so far outclasses The Gunfighter and is so similar in its story that students will probably save their dollars to see Alan Ladd, Van Heflin and Brandon DeWilde in this great Western classic. Marvelously executed in all respects, Shane will be coming back for years to come. 
The Man Who Shot Liberty Valance [Nov. 
17] : John Ford directed this somewhat didactic but nevertheless interesting story of a politician (Jimmy Stewart) who promises to clean up the territory and with is Liberty Valance (Lee Marvin), only to 
.ve his plans screwed up when gunslinger John Wayne shoots Liberty himself. Nevertheless, Stewart takes credit for the killing. A well donefilrnwith an interesting plot, this movie's strongest point, as one might guess, is its superlative cast. 
IAinely Are The Brave [Nov. 18]: Kirk Douglas plays John W. Burns. the Last American Cowboy trapped in a world of modern technology and struggling ·to maintain the vestiges of a dying 'indivi­dualism. This film has established for itself an enormous cult following over the years, much in the same way that Billy Jack has. It is a fitting conclusion to a week of excellent Westerns. 
All films in the program will show at 7:30 and 10:00 p.m. in the Engineering Audi­torium. Patron Cards entitling the bearer to admission to all eleven films will go on sale sometime this week for $5.00 in the dining halls and the Student Union ticket Office. Cards will also be available at The Passenger. 


exploring the many media of art 
Three different collections repiesenthg three different moods and eras opent.:d the fai~exhibition at the Notre Dame Art Gallery. which is scheduled to run until mid-October. 
In the Main Gallery. the most recent works of the Notre Dame faculty are on display in a show designed by Professors Don Yogi and Doug Kensy. A wide variety of media have been-included in this exhibit, ranging from soft sculture and pottery, to photographs and sketches. The works represent the past year's efforts of Kensy, Vogel, Moira Geofferion, Thomas Fern, Joe Rushton, Bill Kremen, Dick Stevt!ns, and . Frs. Flanagan and Louck. Some of the pieces are being offered for 
1\ sale on a first-come, first-serve basis. On (pan from D. Thomas Bergan. the Gallery has the privilege of being the. first museum in the United States to display an outstanding collection of draw\ngs anJ etchin~s of the German Expressionist 
ings. and political cartoons from both European and American ~\rtists. The biting social commentary Honore Duamier high­lights the collection, with many of his scenes for turn-of-the century are also featured, along with one small portrait of Rembrandt. Also in the room is part of the gallery's permanent display of small statues. 
The quality of the show was indicated by the unusually large turnout for the opening of the show on Sunday, Such exhibits help bolster the gallery's reputation as being one of the finest in the area. movement. After this unique show, assembled by Notre Dame graduate Mich­ael I<.asperzak, leaves here, it will travel to a dozen other campuses and municipal galleries ·throughout the country. The catalogue will become available affer November 1,. 
Through the eyes of such artists as Max Beckmenn, Ludwig Meidner, and Edward M~nch, a broad outlook on the Espress­sionist era is presented. This marked a unique time in German history, a period of confusion and conflict during the thirty years before the rise of Adolf Hitler. Many of the drawings and etchings reflect the intense and sharp feelings as Germany fought World War I. then wandered through the Weimar Republic in almost chaotic fashion. The spontaneity of featured artists Meidner and Gustave Klimt are also important for understanding the Expressionism. 
In the Masterpiece Room, the Gallery offers the Fred Hopkins Collection on loan from Mrs. Robert Hayden. Contained in the exhibit are lithographs, wood engrav­vings, and political cartoons from both European and American artists. The ~iting social commentary from both Honore Daumier highlights the collection, with many of his scenes for turn-of-the-century life in France. 


featured artists of exhibit: 
daumier (far left) , kirchner (left), grosz (top) 

~--·--­
r Monday, September 6, 1976 orably for a October 9 appearance Ricci.6 the observer 
of Bruce Springsteen and a Nov. 13 
There are also plans for a few
by W.S. Nichols appearance of Seals and Crofts." He Stepan Center concerts this fall.

Assoc. Features editor 

I 
also stated that a December ap­
Comedian George Carlin, jazzman
t Concert slate . The Student Union is lining up a pearance of Peter Frampton is still Maynard Furgeson and singer­large number of concerts for this possible if a private promoter will composer Billy Joel are some of the upcoming semester, according to take financial responsibility for the artists that are being mentioned. Ken Ricci, Union Director. He said concert. a November concert by the Ricci stressed that most of these John Sebastian, Silver and America Beach Boys was vetoed because the appearances, excepting Americafilling up have been signed to appear at the group was asking for too much and the Doobie Brothers, have not 
ACC on Sept. 18 and that the appearance money. "I don't been signed and are not definite. 
Doobie Brothers will appear there believe that the common college He also said there are only roughly 
on Nov. 20. student is willing to pay $9.50 to 100 bleacher seats left for the
with big names 
Negotiations are continuing fav-$10.50 for a concert ticket," said America concert. 
Hewlett-Packardwrote the bookon advanced pocket calculators. 
And it~ yours free! 
Hewlett-Packard built the world's[irst 
advanced pocket calculator back in 1972. And 
led the way ever since. 
If you're about to invest in your first 
pocket calculator-one that will serve you 
through college and beyond -you'll need all 
the information you can get to make a wise 
decision. That's why Hewlett-Packard's put 
together an objective, informative 24-page 
guide entitled, "What To Look For Before You 
Buy An Advanced Calculator:' And it's 
yours-Free! 

In it you will find such helpful informa­tion as: A survey of types of calculators available; Programming; Logic systems; Appli­cations; Functions; Fe.atures; Construction; Accessories; Memory; Service 3:nd much, much more. 
Get your free copy of''\Vhat To Look For Before You Buy An Advanced Calculator:' at your campus bookstore or telephone 800-538-7922 (in Calif. 800-662-9862) toll-free for the name of your nearest dealer. 
HEWLETT-PACKARD PRESENTS THE FIRST FAMILY OF ADVANCED CALCULATORS. 
HP·21 Scientific. New low price. $80.oo~': 
The HP-21 makes short work of the technical calculations even so-called "non­technical" courses require. If you need a cal­culator for more than simple arithmetic -this is it-especially at its new low price. 
• 
32 built-in functions and operations. 

• 
Addressabie memory. 


• 
Performs all standard log and trig functions (in radians or degrees). 

• 
Performs rectangular/polar conversion, register arithmetic and more. · 

• 
Two selectable display modes: Fixed point and scientific. 

• 
Lowest-priced HP Scientific calculator. 


HP-22 Business Management 
$I65.oo~·: 

The HP-22 easily handles the kinds of calculations you face in business courses today, in management tomorrow. Breeze through business math calculations. Build existing statistical data into reliable forecasts. If you're going into business administration, this is the calculator for you. 
• 
Combines financial, mathematical and statistical capabilities. 

• 
Performs complex time-value-of-money computations including interest rates. 

• 
Performs rates of return and discounted cash flows for investment analysis. 

• 
Performs extended percent calculations, accumulated interest, amortization, etc. 

• 
Ten addressable memories. 

• 
Full decimal display control. 



HP-25C Scientific Programmable with Continuous Memory. 
$20o.oo~·: 

The HP-2 5C is our keystroke progrrim­mable. It can solve automatically the repetitive problems every science and engineerin~ student faces. What's more, its Continuous 
Memory capability lets you retain programs 
and data even when it's turned off. 
• 
Continuous memory capability. 

• 
72 built-in functions and operations. 

• 
Keystroke programmability. 

• 
Branching, conditional test and full editing capability. 

• 
Eight addressable memories. 

• 
We also offer the HP-25, (without the Con­tinuous Memory feature) for $145.00:' 


HP-2 7 Scientific/Plus 
$2oo.oo~': 

The HP-27 is for the science or engineer­ing student-whose course work extends into business administration. The reason: It features every pre-programmed scientific function we've ever offered, plus comprehen­sive stat and financial functions. That's why we've dubbed it our Scientific/Plus. 
• 28 pre-programmed exponential, log and trig functions, 15 statistical functions, 10 financial functions-53 in all. 
• 10 addressable memories-20 memories in all. 
• 
6 selective clearing options give you flexible use of memories. 

• 
Fixed decimal, scientific or engineering display formats. 


What to look for belcft you buy an advanced calculator. 
HEWLETT¢@ PACKARD 

MANLJF'ACTURl"lfS RlPliTAfl(IN 
Sales and ><·rvice from 17 2 offices in 65 countries. Dept. 658G. 19310 Pruneridge Avenue. Cupertino, CA 95014. 
..................................................................1-i"i~w ''·!\!1fil-( 
*Suggested retail price, excluding applicable state and local taxes-Contif\.et:t~l U.S., Alas~lJ,3rfQ'Hawaii. .. . l '' 616129. •
'. 
.~ ·' .' ' .. . .. . ... . . . ' . 
Monday, September 6, 1976 
the observer 
7

Pick-ups at laundry 
Clean laundry requires longer walk this year 
will be ready to be picked up three distributed until September 30 working days later. from the old laundry pick-up site in Keenan Hall basement. Clothing· 
Summer storage pick-up may be picked up any weekday, between 7:30 a.m. and 3:55 p.m. Cakruzewski stated taht clothing After September 30, articles may 
stored for the summer will be be moved to another outlet. 
!CINEMA 77 PRESENTS 
Michaelangelo Antonioni's 
THE PASSENGER 
starring 

Jack Nicholson& Maria Schnieder 
Engineering Auditorium 
Admission $1.00 

Tuesday & Wednesday Sept. 7,8 
7:30 & 1O:OOpm 


by ·Chris Smith Ass't Managing Editor 
Notre Dam* students will have to travel across campus to pick up their clean laundry this year. Dis­tribution of laundry bundles, for­merly handled from the basements of Badin and Keenan Halls, will now take place only at the St. Michael's Laundry. 
AJ.IIaundry must be picked up at door three, on the west side of the laundry building. This site will serve as the pick-up and drop-off point for all dry cleaning, and will take laundry bags from those who missed the pick-up at their resi­dence hall. St. Michael's Laundry is located behind Sacred Heart Church, next to Lewis Hall. 
Adolph Keglovits, director of the laundry. attributed his change in procedure to the increased enrol­lment of women. "We have less student bundles to handle, so we have to reduce our forces.'' 
"prices will be the same as last year," added Keglovits. "There will be less handling of the bun­dles. They got banged around in the trucks when we had to transfer them to Badin and Keenan. We hope to offer better service." 
Lil Cakruzewski, supervisor of bundle distribution, echoed Keglo­vits' projection of better service. "The new system will be a more convenient, faster service. We don't have to call over to the plant when bundles are missing. I think the students will be happy.'' 
· The former Badin hall laundry facility has been renovated, and will be additional office space for Campus Ministry. Plans for the Keenan basement site could not be found. Bro. Kiernan Ryan, who has charge of University buildings, could not be reached. 
New pick-up schedule 
Starting the week of September 
17. laundry will be picked up from 
Rector changes 
(Continued from page 2) thing stopping us right now is we don't have the proper physical facilities for housing. The only place we could feasibly do this right now would be the towers." "However, the room conversions 
ould cost a lot," he said. "The pie would need more room and more privacy which would involve 
into the survey, Lally said. Therefore, Student Affairs decided 
El to. make the survey voluntary for each dorm. 
A 
Only four dorms actually con-
El ducted the survey last semester, Lally stated. It was given little or no weight in the actual selection of rectors although it proved helpful 
El for the rectors to see their own weaknesses and strong points, he noted. 
New rectors include Barbara 
El Schmich of Badin, Sr. Vivian Whitehead of Breen-Phillips, Sr. Kathleen Madden of Lyons, Rev. 
El Raymond Holtz of Morrissey, Rev. Mario Pedi of St. Edward's and Sr. Kathleen Rossman of Walsh. 
Hesburgh to say £1 
o~~~.~~~m~:~:. nowa 
academic year at Notre Dame willEl be Sept. 12 at 10:45 a.m. in Sacred Heart Chursh. 
University President Fr. Theo­
dore . M. Hesburgh will be the a 
principal celebrant at the mass at 
which all faculty will march in 
procession. Fr. James C. Burt­
chaell, provost, will be the homi-.. 
list. W the residence halls on, different days. The new schedule calls for Keenan, Stanford and Alumni laundry to be picked up on Mon­day, and Morrissey, Pangborn and Planner laundry on Tuesday. Laundry from Howard, Zahm, Sor-
Classified Ads 
Wanted 
Desperately need 1 Pitt S. Purdue ticket. Please call JoAnn-5489. 
Desperately need 1 Pitt tix. Will pay top$. Charlie 6813. 
Desperately need 2 Purdue tix. Call Russ at 8764. 
Will trade 4 Pitt for 2 Purdue and 2 Oregon · all G.A. Paula (6354). 
Need 3 or 4 roommates to share house on E. Colfax. Low rent· good neighborhood. 284-5726. 
Need one Purdue ticket. Call Jack 3493. 
Wanted: Telephone extension. Call John or Dave 1081. Wanted A faculty ildvisor for the Sailing Club. If interested, call 1325 or 5408. \ 
Sailors needed. No experience necessary. Club meetings every Wednesday at 6 :30 Room 303 Engineering Building 
Part-time, evenings and weekends. Should have knowledge of cameras and photography. Apply Mon.-Fri. 9-5, Niles K-Mart. 
House for Rent: 1018 N. Eddy (near Logan Hospital) walk to campus. Five bedrooms, partially furnished. 9 mo. lease. Very reasonable rate. Good for college students. Call 233-2613 between 7p.m. and 10 p.m. 
Willing to swap 2 Pitt tix for 2 Alabama or Purdue tix. Call collect 314-277-8673 ask for Jim. 
Roommates needed: 1 or 2 room­mates to share beautiful 4-bedroom house at 1128 N. Cleveland Ave. $50 mo. & util., close to campus. Inquire evenings or weekend. For into call 283-8356, ask tor Ed or Terry. 
Desperately need 2 tickets to Pitt game. Call Joe 283-1077. 
·Bass guitarist, experienced, equip­ment, lights, looking tor band. Call Mike, 8622. 
Have 2 Pitt tickets to trade for 2 Oregons. Call Anne 1362. 
I will pay top dollar tor G.A. Pitt tickets. Call Tim 1868. 
For Sale For Sale: 2 rugs 10' x 14' dark green; 6 month old albums must be sold, perfect condition. Call Jim 3333 after 6:30 pm. 
'62 Mercedes 220, very good condition, radials, S-track,
knocking down a wall and thereby · decreasing the number of student rooms." 
Last year a survey was distri­buted to students to evaluate their 
stereo electronic ignition. $1200 or offer. 287-7693. 
'64 Dodge pick-up. Runs. Needs work. $200 or best offer. 272-7360. 
in and Brownson will be picked up on Wednesday, St. Ed's, Carroll, Holy Cross, Grace, St. Joe and Old College on Thursday, and Dillon, Cavanaugh and Fisher on Friday. 
Laundry trucks will pick up each hall's laundry at noon. Laundry 
l"or sale: couches, chairs, misc. l"ree delivery to campus. Call Mrs. Delphine Cooper at 272-3004. 
Plants tor sale. Reasonable prices. 920 Notre Dame. 232-5164. 
Ladies 3-speed bicycle excellent condition. $50. 272-7360. 
Trumpet-King, silver, excellent cond., with mutes and deluxe case. $150. Call Mike, 8622. 
Notices 
Morrissey Loan Fund $20-150 1 day wait. 1 percent interest clue in 30 days. LaFortune Base­ment, M-F 11:15-12:15. 
Doc. Pierce's Saloon & Restaurant is hiring Full or Part-time NOW. Bartenders, Waiters, Waitresses, Busboys. Will schedule around academic commitments. Apply in person between 2 and 4 pm at 120 North Main Street, Mishawaka, Phone 255-7737. An Equal Oppor­
~~!Y.E.'!P~~r.:_ _______ 
Interested in 10-speeds? Help is needed to organize a club at ND-SMC. Call Russ 288-5192 
Accurate, Fast Typing. Mrs. Donoho 232-0746. · 
First meeting Gay Community of J\lotre Dame September 9. Infor­mation: P.O. Box 206 Notre Dame. 
For Rent 
House for Rent: Between Logan Hosp. & Nickies Bar on 1018 N. Eddy Partially Furnished -ExceiiPnt condition. Walk to N D 5 bedrooms, 2 bathrooms Very reasonable price. Good for group of College kids. Call 233-2613 between 8:00 PM-10:00 PM. 
Garage for rent. Call after 5. 287-5178. 
5 bedroom house, furnished, East Navarre Street, South Bend. Call 259-6021. 
1-six bedroom house with fireplace for rent. Completely furnished and just 2 blocks from campus at 1034 N. Eddy. No security problem. Listed with Notre Dame Housing Office. Also, 4-bedroom, completely furnished house, real close at 1126 N. Hill. Completely safe, good neighborhood. Call 277-3604. 
MEXICAN BELTS: Leather; Leatherl/iuede with wooden or leather buckles. A II sizes only $10.00. Call 'Big 'Moeny Murf' anytime. 234·8858. 
Persona15 
Is your life empty? Order the Chicago Tribun~. Call 8670. 
Desperately need 4 Pitt tickets. Call Colleen 4-5170. 

hall rectors. However, controversy arose when some rectors suggested they should have had some input 
aaaaaaaaa 
ATTENTION!! 13 
ALL Leaders of 
13 

CLUBS & ORGANIZATIONS 
13 

If you wish to have your club 
13 

repr~sented at 
ACTIVITIES NIGHT, 
to be held Sept 13~ please attend a 
13

short meeting Sept 6, in LaFortune Ballroom at 7:30 pm. 13 
Thank ~ou 
13 

aaaaaaaa 
13 13 



the observer Monday, September 6, 1976
8 
The Browners: an ND family affair 
by Patrick Cole 

How do three brothers end up at the same school, to play the same sport at the same time! 
For Ross, Jimmie and Willard Browner, it takes talent and hard work. Most importantly, the Browner brothers are a close-knit group. The three live in the Towers: Ross with Jimmie in Flanner Hall and Willard in Grace Hall. 
"We do ah-ltost everything together," Jimmie, the sophomore safety, said about his brothers. 
Ross Browner, the junior All-America defensive end and oldest of the brothers agreed with Jimmie. "I used to go out with Jimmie and Willard a lot," he said. "And since we used to be out together with some of my friends, they grew up in an older atmosphere.'' 
Willard Browner, the freshman fullback currently on the second team, is making the transition inot college football just as his brothers did. "We practiced and played together," he said thinking about their childhood days in Warren, Ohio. 
In fact, it was during their childhood that the Browner brothers began, like most great athletes, to build their athletic careers. Willard began playing baseball in the fourth grade. Jimmie became inter­ested in sports in the fifth grade by running intramural track. Surprisingly, Ross waited until the eighth grade to play football. 
''Our parents wanted us to play sports rather than be in the streets," Jim,mie said. "So they put us in the YMCA and other sports sp programs." "We knew we had to achieve in sports because we realized that our parents could not afford to send us all to college,'' Willard added. 
Ross stated that one of the important concerns of their parents was to get an education. He also admits that his mother was quite hesitant about his playing sports. "My mother thought it was a risk to play football--she thought I was too small," Ross said. "Actually, in junior high ·I was 6'1" and 175 pounds and could do the 40 yard dash in 5.0 seconds. · 
So then came high school for the Browner brothers which produced many jimmie, Willard and Ross Browner form a family football tradition which is 
year, Ross earned high school All-America honors including membership on the Super Eleven team designating the best eleven high school football players in the country. Ross was also a track standout registering a 21.4 time in the 220 and a 47 second clocking in the 440. He also pole vaulted. 
"We worked together," Ross pointed out again, "and our coaches wanted us to have quickness and agility. We also did weight work.'' 
Jimmie and Willard played together as fullback and tailback combining for over 200 yards--over 100 yeards each--during Jimmie's senior year. Jimmie exceled also in track and basketball. By the time Jimmie and Willard had graduated a year apart, they had achieved All-America honors in football. 
Ross, who had considered schools such as Ohio State, Michigan and Nebraska, chose Notre Dame because of the football tradition. "Also I talked to guys like Eric Penick and Wayne Bullock about the 

Why did the younger brothers, Jimmie and Willard, chose to come also? 
Jimmie, like Ross, had offers from schools of all parts of the country such as Michigan, Washington, Georgia Tech and UCLA. Yet he stressed the academic program at Notre Dame as well as the athletics that lead him to come to the same school. 
"Here at Notre Dame, you can get a good diploma," Jimmie emphasized. "For example, a degree from Ohio University may not be as impressive as a degree from here." 
Jimmie felt that Notre Dame was a good place to come to get national exposure. "I think that this is the best place to come if you want to get picked up by the scouts," he said. "Also I was impressed with the ACC. I had never seen anything like it before I came here. 
However, Willard admitted that he didn't want to be different from his two brothers in his final decision. "We learn a 

Coach Digger Phelps' fielding-perfor-' softball game Saturday convinced him to mance in the basketball team's annual stick to the hardwood court in the future. 
Marchibroda quits Baltimore Colts 
MILWAUKEE AP-Baltimore Colts owner Robert Irsay said Sun­day he has accepted the resignation of Coach Ted Marchibroda follow­ing a dispute over how to run the National Football League Club. 
Marchibroda expressed his con­cern about the Colts system of running the football club and also requested that the system be changed . or otherwise he would resign, Irsay told The Associated Press. "Based on his request for a change of the entire Baltimore Colts sys­tem, I accepted Mr. Ted Marchi­broda's resignation." 
Marchibroda was the National Football League's Coach of the Year in 1975 after Baltimore won its last 10 games following four defeats to open the season. The Colts won their first two preseason encounter.> this year, but have dropped the last four. 
lrsay said he met with Marchi­broda and Colt General Manager Joe Thomas here Sunday for six hours. The club owner said he had intended to meet with them Tuesday in Baltimore. But lrsay said he scheduled the meeting here where he was a guest at the Mil­waukee Yacht Club because Marchibroda insisted on getting together Sunday. 
Irsay stormed into the Colts' dressing room Thursday night after they lost 24-9 to Detroit and verbally lashed into Marchibroda and the Baltimore players. He had also burst into the dressing room after the Colts lost to Atlanta last week, ami lambasted the team. 
After arriving back in Baltimore, Marchibroda issued a statement in which he expressed regret over the resignation. 
''The players here are a fine group of men, dedicated to win­ning," Marchibroda said, "and they don't deserve the internal bickering that has existed here between the coach and manage­ment. 
''Any coach, in order to lead his men, must have the authortty to call the shots. This differs from ownership and management's posi­tion. I couldn't tolerate the interference I was getting. The situation started at the end of last season.'' 
Marchibroda said he was proud of the team's feat of posting a 10-4 regular-season record last year after going 2-12 the previous year. 
The 45-year-old coach, who ser­ved as an assistant in the NFL for nine years and was a rookie head coach in 1975, said, "I will always be indebted to the Colt manage­ment for giving me my first opportunity at a head coaching job in the NFL.'' 
tvfarchibroda met with his former assistants at the teams training camp Sunday night and also met with players, who have scheduled a meeting of their own early Mon­day. 
There has been no indication what fate is in store for hte assistant coaches. 
Cordes assumes role of women's tennis coach 
by Eileen O'Grady ND Women's Sports Editor 
Notre Dame greets a new varsity coach this year: Kathy Cordes, coaching women's varsity tennis. 
Cordes comes to the team with excellent credentials. She played varsity tennis for Indiana Univers­ity for four years, graduating in physical education. Working for her masters at Ball State, she was the head tennis coach there for one year. 
At ~anover College, in Madison, Indiana, she also served as head tennis coach, while working as a physical education instructor. Be­fore coming to Notre Dame she was athletic coordinator for one year at Spalding College. In between all there, she served as a tennis pro for various indoor tennis clubs. 
However, Cordes' talents range far beyond tennis. Among her other duties, she has also coached golf, volleyball, track and headed a modern dance department at Ball State. 
At Notre Dame, Cordes plans to start a badminton club for women, and help coach the women's golf team, along with her duties as a physical education teacher. 
Right now, all Cordes talks about· is the tennis team. "It's a very 
. excellent start for a varsity pro­gram," she stated. "We're get­ting full cooperation." 
Presently, the team is conduct­ing a round robin tournament to narrow down the 45 women who have come out for the team. 
Always a fierce competitor, Cor­
des already talks about Notre Dame's biggest rival. St. Mary's: "In the past years, St. Mary's has always had a strong team, and 
As for the season, which starts this Saturday against Pittsburgh, the Browner brothers have a few things to work on to improve their game. 
"I have a little problems with low blocks," Ross admitted. "But my outlook on this season is to shoot for the national championship. I feel we have the players and the coaches to do the job." 
"Pittsburgh will be a good game since it was a most embarrassing game last season," Ross continued. "It will give us more incentive for this season and a good outlook on the rest of the season." 
Jimmie hoped to improve his man-on­man coverage at the strong safety position. "I get by on what I do, but I want to get better because the coach (defensive secon­dary coach, Paul Shoults) wants me to do better. 
Willard, adjusting to the new style of college football, noted the differences he has been facing the past three weeks. "You have to push yourself more," he said. "Everybody is talented and there's someone who can take your place at any time." 
The Browner brother have started a family football tradition at Notre Dame similar to that of the Selmon brothers at Oklahoma University. And there are three more Browner brothers left in th family as well as two sisters. There's Keith Browner, 15: Joey Browner, 16: who already stands 6'3" 185 pounds, and Gerald Browner, 12, who stands 5'11" and weighs an awesome 235 pounds for his age. 
"They all play various sports and have won a lot of trophies," Jimmie com­mented. "And I think the younger ones will be better than us. The only thing is that there will be a lot of pressure because of our name. Everyone expects them to excell too." 
"Gerald can dunk, and he is the home run king in Little League--he can throw a baseball with either hand," Jimmie noted proudly. 
"We always helped each other along," Ross stated. "And we do this for our younger brothers.'' 
With this togetherness, certainly Ross, Jimmie and Willard will not be the last of the Browner brothers. 
since they look forward all
Lu returning players, I definitely anti­
cipate another strong team." 

Notre Dame will first met 
Mary's at a tournament at 
, . 
State on Sept. 18. Their first home 
match-up will be Oct. 9 against 
Eastern Michigan. 

Cordes is definitely excited about 
Notre Dame's tennis team. "I'm 
really looking forward to workiung 
with the girls," she stated. " I'm 
very impressed so far." 

The women will begin their fall 
season this Saturday morning at St. 
Mary's 'against Indiana State. 
leer meeting to be held Tuesday 
The first hockey meeting of the year will be held on Tuesday, September 7 at 4:00 p.m. in the ACC auditorium. Anyone inte­rested in trying out should report. 
Physicals are to be taken on 
Wednesday, September 8 at 8:00 
p.m. in the ACC training room. 
ND women to 
have sports rally 
The Notre Dame Women's Sports Rally will be held Wednes­day night, Sept. 8, at 8 in the library auditorium. Speakers from each of the fall sports, both varsity and club, will explain their pro­grams and try out procedures. 
At this time, women may also sign up to be managers, hostesses for visiting teams, statisticians or trainers. Sports included will be field hockey, varsity tennis, golf, track, crew, sailing, basketball, volleyball and badminton. 





