
Editorial 
St. Mary's to receive Observer next year? 
It has been decided by The Observer editorial board that unless the St. Mary!s student body pays the mandatory fee of $3, The Observer will not be distributed to the St. Mary's campus in the Fall. Over 95 percent of Notre Dame students pay for The Observer, while less than SO percent of the St. Mary's students have paid for this publication each year. Only once, in 1973, did the St. Mary:s 

..
subscription percentage exceed SO percent. It occurred m February 1973, and only after The Observer susp:n~ed circulation to St. Mary's because of the low subscnptton rate. It is this editorial board's decision that St. Mary's should finally pay for The Observer as Notre Dame does_ or simply not receive it. For too long Notre Dame has earned the financial burden for St. Mary's. 
The Observer has been justifiably criticized in the past for a lack of St. Mary's coverage within its pages. This lack of coverage, however, is entirely due to a shortage of St. Mary's reporters, rather than any malicious intent of ours to keep St. Mary's coverage at a minimum. Despite frequent recruitment drives, only a handful of St. Mary's students have been willing to write for The Observer. To add to an already difficult situation, the St. Mary's reporters we do have have been confronted with t_he frequent refusals of St. Mary's officials to talk openly wtth them on the issues we try to cover. Furthermore, SMC administrators have skirted our continued requests for office space on the St. Mary's campus. 
The Observer feels strongly that unless St. Mary's cooperates in part by at least paying for this newspaper as Notre Dame does, it should no longer receive it at all. It is our intention to continue St. Mary's reporter drives and, by increasing the size of the St. Mary's staff, increase the amount of St. Mary's coverage. But only after a successful response to a reportorial drive will we be able to upgrade 
SALT LAKE CITY AP -A hand­
written document purporting to be 
the will of the late Howard R. 
Hughes was delivered to a Nevada 
court clerk yesterday. 
More than half of th -estate was 
left to medical research and chari­
table institutions, according to the 
document, and the rest was left to 
Hughes' .two former wives and two 
two other individuals. No over-all · 
figure on the value of the estate 
was given. 
An envelope containing the pur­ported will was delivered to the Clark County clerk by Jeus Christ of Latter-day Saints Mormon, one of the beneficiaries. 
The document, dated March 19, 1968 -two years before the late billionaire left Las Vegas -was release by church officials here. 
The lined sheets were yellow with age and stained. It read, in part: "Last will and testament. I, Howard R. Hughes, 
In 
Today's 


Observer 
The football team stages a preview of next seasons action in tomor­row's Blue-Gold game, see page 9. 
Seniors, do you remember you first concert at Notre Dame? On page 
12. Reminisce. 
Father Griffin and David O'Keefe 
wrap up this year's Features on 
page 12. Observer 
Father Griffin and David O'Keefe wrap up this year's Observer Features on page 12. 
Notre Dame's Student Union is in excellent financial shape according to its Director, Ken Ricci, the details are on page 13. 
being of sound and disposing mind and memory, not acting under duress, fraud or the undue influ­ence of any person whomsoever and being a resident of Las Vegas, Nev., declare that this is to be my last will ... " 
The document leaves "one fourth of all my assets to the Hughes Medical Institute in Miami one-eighth to be divided among the University of Texas, Rice Institute of Technology, Houston, University of Nevada, University of California, one-sixteenth to the Mormon Church, one-sixteenth to establish a home for orphan children, one­sixteenth to the Boy Scouts of America, one-sixteenth to be div­ided among Jean Peters of Los Angeles and Ella Rice of Houston, one-sixteenth to William R. Lum­mis of Huston, one-sixteenth Melvin Du Mar of Las Vegas." 
Noah Dietrich, Hughes former right-hand man, was named execu­

the SMC coverage. It has been suggested by St. Mary's officials that, granted we conduct further reportorial drives and possibly add some SMC professors to our advisory board (which we ;ntend to do), the fee will either be mandatory or we will only be obliged to deliver as many issues of The Observer as are paid for by St. Mary's students. Our position, 
tor in the document. Dietrich had 
however, is this: unless this newspaper is equally
said earlier that he knew Hughes 
supported by both Notre Dame arid St. Mary's, it should
had prepared and signed a will, 
not be distributed to both campuses. A partial distribution 
leaving much of his fortune to 
research and the Mormon Church. to St. Mary's does not justify the presumption, written Hughes surrounded himself with under our masthead, that we are a Notre Dame and St. Mormons during his last years of Mary's newspaper. We would be forced to become a 
seclusion. 
Notre Dame newspaper exclusively, to remove the St. 
The document was included in a 
Mary's women from our editorial board and to omit all St.
series of papers delivered to the 
Mary's coverage completely.
Clark County clerk in Las Vegas. A 
Mormon spokesman said the Our hope is that St. Mary's officials will finally include Church did not know if the will was the $3 subscription fee on the Fall bill, as has been the "a hoax or not." practice at Notre Dame. Once that cooperative effort has "Jerry Cahill, director of press been made, The Observer can work to upgrade its St. 
relations, said an envelope with 
Mary's coverage and to improve what has often been 
papers was delivered to the clerk 
termed the last visible and sustaining link between the two
by Wilfred W. Kirton Jr., counsel 
campuses. We are wholeheartedly in favor of doing so.
for the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints Mormon. Our own financial situation, however, has forced us to ask 
The envelope had been delivered the same of St. Mary's as we have received from Notre to the church headquarters here, Dame all along--namely, the revenue needed to continue but Cahill said officials did not 
this publication.
know how or by whom. "The circumstances surrounding the de­livery frankly puzzle us " he said. ; 

Commencement is 131st 
by Marianne Shulte The 131st Annual Commence­Halls. 
Senior Staff Reporter ment weekend will officially open Actual graduation ceremonies with a lawn concert on Friday May will begin at noon in the Memorial 14 by the University band at 6:30 Library Auditorium with the distri­
After four years of sweat by p.m. on the Memorial Library Mall. bution of diplomas to the graduate parents to meet tuition costs and by The musical "Godspell" will also division of the College of. Business students to meet the demands of be presented by the ND-SMC Adminstration. Distribution of professors. parents of graduating Theatre at 8 p.m. in Stepan Center, Bachelor's and Master's diplomas students will again be coming to for which tickets may be purchased will start at 1 p.m. in the ACC and Notre Dame for the weekend of in advance. may be attended by onlythe grad­May 14-16 to see everything except Activities on Saturday, May 15 uates themselves. their sons and daughters receive will include ROTC commissioning The graduates will march from their diplomas. in the Athletic and Convocation the south to the north dome of the 
As in recent years, recipients of Center, Phi Beta Kappa installation ACC with thek diplomas in the 
Masters or Baccalaureate degrees in the Memorial Library Audi­Academic Procession at 1:30 p.m. will not receive their degrees torium, and a University Reception Vernon E. Jordan, Jr. of the individually during the commence­by the Officers of the University in National Urban League of New ment · cermony. Due to the size of the Center for Continuing Educa­York City will deliver the Com­the graduating class, only Doctor of tion. The Academic Procession of mencement Speech to the grad­Philosophy degrees will be confer­graduates at 4:45 p.m. in the ACC uates and their parents and friends 
red individually at the Commence­will be followed by a Baccalaureate following the Academic Procession. ment Exercises. Mass. The Valedictorian of the Class of 
All other diplomas will be distri­Following the cocktail party and buted privately, immediately prior buffet supper in the ACC, for which 1976 has not yet been announced. to the Academic Procession pre­tickets must be .purchased in The Law School Diploma Cere­ceding the Commencement and advance, a concert by the Notre mony will conclude the weekend Conferring of Degrees Ceremony. Dame Glee Club will close the activities at 4:30p.m. in Washing 
At that time these degrees will be evening activities of Saturday. ton hall. officially .conferred simultaneously Sunday brunch at 10:30 a.m. will The University will offer on­on all of the graduates of each be a box lunch, available by ticket campus accomodations for parents 
college and school. from the North and South Dining and friends of graduates. 


> ,• -ll' r.:F 
........,.. "-. 
2 
The Observer Friday, April 30, 1976 
~On -Campus Today___,..,_ 
friday, april 30 
12:15 pm-­
4:30pm 
5:15 pm-­7 & 10 pm-­
7:30 pm-­8 pm-­
8:15 pm-­9 pm-­
10 pm-­12 am-­
12:15 am 
travelogue series, II around the world in 45 minutes," by Leonard munstermann, sponsored by biology dept., galvin aud. 
recital, student recital, sponsored by music dept., _little theater, smc. 
mass and dinner, bulla shed 
film "camelot," sponsored by student union, tickets: $1, engineering aud 
meeting, campus crusade for christ, lewis hall ·parlor 
play, "godspell," stepan center 
cameo, 'prof sue h. seid. oragan; marie parnell, viola, call 6211 for reservations, rm 204 hoynes hall 
square dance, spons. by foster grandchild program, nd social comm., sorin and farley, free, but donation bins available, behind bookstore 
nazz 10 pm-marie costello, billcare; 11 pm-pat russell; 12 am-Martha Paulding, j.r. paulding, rath­skellar album hour, wsnd, 640 am 
nocturne night flight, tonight's host:"george the friendly mainstream" best in jazz just for you, wsnd 
88.9 fm 
saturday, may 1 
10 am 
2 pm-­7 & 10 pm-­
8 pm-­10 pm-­
12 am-­
12:15 am-­
sunday, may 2 
1 pm-­to 5 pm-­2 pm 
2 pm-­
3 pm-­
7 & 10 pm-­
12 am-­
12:15 am-­
ceremony, annual naval rotc awards ceremony an dl review, guest speaker sr_ john miriam jones, stepan center field, in case of rain, wash. hall 
football, blue and gold game, memorial stadium 
film* "camelot," spons. by student union, tickets $1, eng. aud. 
play, "godspell," stepan cener. 
nazz, 10 pm-dan bishop; 11 -1 am-mark hopkins michael bradley rathskeller 
albumhour, wsnd 640 am 
nocturne night flight, the best in progressive rock, jazz and blues, tonight's host: jorge lopez, wsnd 88.9 fm 

Dunes trip ignites Senior Week 
open house, st mary's college campus 
poetry reading, profs. john matthias and ernest sandeen will be reading from their newly published books of peotry, spon by eng dept. haggar hall auri_ 
recital student recital, spons. by ladies of n.d., lib aud 
music review,"American reiview", spcns. by music dept, o'laughlin aud. 
film, "taming of the shrew" with richard burton ad elizabeth taylor, spons. by eng dept., eng. aud. 
album hour, wsnd, 640 am 
nocturne night flight, the best in progressive rock, jazz and blues, tonight's host dave szymanski, wsnd 
88.0 fm. · 

Saturday May 8th begins the long awaited Senior Week. The festivities will begin early Saturday morningat the dunes, according to Betsy Call, senior class secretary. ''Plans are not complete as to what the entire event will entail,'' Call said, "but we hope to have a picnic.'' 
Canoe races will be held at 
Campus View at 1 pm, Sunday, 
May 9th. In the past, teams have 
competed in beer races while 
sitting in canoes, according to 
Call. "Anyone wishing to become a 
participant in the race should sign 
up at Senior Bar where rules and 
regulations will be available," Call 
said. Following the canoe race 
there will be a Senior Night at 
Kubiak's, "where it all began," 
starting at 8 pm. 

The Senior Formal will be held at the Ramada Inn on Monday. The formal will be centered around the theme, "As Time Goes By." Cocktail hour begins at 6:30, followed by dinner at 7:30, and the dance at 9:30. Music will be provided by the Don Crone band. 
Tickets are still available through the Student Union Office. Call stated that the cost of the total package is $26.50, but those want­ing to attend the dance only, can purchase tickets for $9.00. "We anticipate the senior formal as being the highlight of the week," Call said. 
A post-formal picnic will be held the next day. Seniors attending are urged by the senior class officers to bring softball equipment, frisbees and the like. The location will be announced at a later date. 
An awards night will also be held that night in Washington Hall at 
7:30. Awards will be issued to sutdents from the various depart­ments of the University. A slide presentation will accompany the awards featuring the seniors and events from the four years they have spend at ND/SMC. A Senior Bar reception will follow. 
The final day, Wednesday, will begin at 9 am with a mixed couples alternate golf tournament, accord­ing to· Call. Those wishing to 
*The Observer 
Night Editors: Dan Sanchez & Chris Smith Assistant Night Editors: Joe 
Bauer and Chris Smith  
layout  Staff:  Mary  Janca,  
Marti  Hogan,  Anne  Reilly,  
Frank Kebe, Mo Flynn  

Day Editors: Kathy McEntee and Sue Ballman Copy Readers:J ack D'Aurora, Matt Kane Editorials: Jim Eder and pat Hanifin Features: Tim O'Layout and Carograph icsl ina Sports: Fred Herbst Typists: Marie McCarthy, Mel Celese, Camille Arrieh, Morey Blinder, Cregg Bangs, Mo Flynn Night Controller: Martha participate should sign up at Senior Bar. Awards from the tournament will be given at a Senior Bar picnic beginning at 6:30. 
''The picnic and awards will be highlighted by an 'Outdoor Movie Orgy' beginning at 8 pm", Call said. she went on to say that cartoons and Three Stooges films will be shown by the Schlitz Beer 

Hall 
Alumni-Dillon 
Fisher-Pangborn 
Lyons-Morrissey 
Howard-Badin 
Walsh-Sorin 
Holy Cross (NrD.) 
At S.M.C. 
LeMans-Hol_y Cross 
Hall 
Flanner-Grace 
B.P.-Farley 
Keenan-Stanford 
Cavanaugh-Zahm 
Time 
' 10:00-11:30 11:30-12:30 1:30-2:30 2:30-3:00 3:00-4:00 4:00-4:30 
4:30-5:30 
Truck #3 & 4 North Quad 
Time 
10:00-11 :30 11 :30-12:30 1:30-2:30 2:30-3:30 Co. In case of rain, the movies will be held in the Engineering Auditor­ium. 
Carroll; St. Ed's; Lewis; Brownson  3:30-4:00  
At S.M.C.  
Regina N.-Regina S. McCandless  4:00-4:30 4:30-5:00  

"The week should be exciting and will be a chance for everyone to get together before graduation,'' stated Call. "We hope everyone C'an attend the events.'' If there are .my questions, contact the senior class officers. 
Trucks wiD be: 
Behind Dillon 
Behind Pangborn 
Behind Lyons 
Behind Badin 
Behind Walsh 
At Holy Cross 
Behind LeMans 
Trucks will be: 
Between Towers 
Behind B.P. 
Behind Keenan 
Behind Zahm 
Behind St. Ed's 
and at Lewis 
In b~~tween N & S In front 
Please have refrigerators clean and defrosted to avold the $5.00 cleaning. fee. 
. 

:: 




by Joh~ Delaney and Matt Kane parking lot on May 5-12 from 9 Staff Reporters a.m. to 12 a.m., 1 p.m. to 4:30 
p.m.• and 6 p.m. to 7:30p.m. 
Students wishing to store goods Prices will be posted, but Ling during the summer will be given estimates that it will cost $22.00 to numerous options, according to ship a 100 lbs. trunk to New York. Student Union associate Director Students with questions should call Walt Ling. Ling has developed a Casey Nolan, 283-8995. program that will allow the stu­dents either to store in the South 
Other optionsBend area or at Home. 

Bekins Van Lines will provide storage for on-campus students Ling also recommends that stu­despite last year's poor service. dents use the services offered by Last year Bekins unloaded storage South Bend storage companies. He and left before actually turning it describes these companies as over to the students. Ling said "good and willing." He warned Bekins misunderstood their obliga­students, however, to remember tions and the misunderstanding that they are dealing on their terms has been cleared up. when dealing with the companies 
This year. however, he company The companies are Woodworth will have their own personnel Storage and Transfer, 233-1111; checking the students receipts. Wiltfong Movers and Storage. 
Pick-up procedures will be the 259-8554; Marycrest Standard Ser­same as last year's. Trucks will vice, 289-1122; and Michiana South pick up storage behind the dorms Lock Storage. on May 5-7 and May 10-11. Bekins The last option that Student will not be responsible for damage. Union provides for students is a However, insurance will be pro­joint effort between Student Union ' vided. Students must declare the and the Ombudsman. The idea is value of each item. called "Mini Warehouses". Mas­
Ling advised students not to ter Centerprizes Reality (M.E.R.) store small, expensive items such will rent a garage type storage area as calculators, and radios and to that will range in price from $15 to pack their items carefully. Student $50. U_nion will circulate storage forms Students can store anything they to be filled out before pick-up. Ling want in these areas, but the advised students to hang-on to management is not responsible. their receipts for convenience. M.E.R.is located two blocks from 
th\! Indiana border in Niles. Ryder Truck Rentals can provide trans­United port to the garage. Questions should be referred to Joe Turik or 
Unitet Airlines will deliver stu-Sam Schpok of Master Enterprises dent pt ••perty anywhere in the Reality at 683-1959. continental United States this sum-Finally. Ling urges students to ?1er. Trucks will pick-up student use their common sense in pack-Items in the in the Bookstore aging and storing 
~-----------~-~-~ 
1I Who loves ya,l ' 1 baby? 1 
I The Observer is having a staff barbecue 1 
next Saturday afternoon, 2:30 to 6 pm. II That same evening, at 9 pmI we will hold our annual staff party. 
Also, we are ordering staff T-Shirts. 1 T-Shirts will cost $2.
I 1
1 Use the clip-out below 1 to RSVP for THE BARBECUE or THE PARTY or to order T-Shirts.
I I 
\ Just because we love ya. 1 I)-=.-=.-.==-----··••(\

• 0 MY NOTRE DAME ·F
1 The Observer,! Vote For1 of course! 1 ''LITTLE JOE'' 
~~ Name. 
I II, I ZAPPIA 
I will come to the barbecue. _______ 
DEMOCRAT FOR
·,1 I will come to the evening party. J I want a T-Shirt. Size.
II \ Now ya know who loves ya. J·I I 
~---------------~ 
Friday, April 30, 1976 The Observer 
3 

Mello named valedictorian 

by Mar_y Pat Egan Contributing Editor 

St.  Mary's  has  announced  the  
valedictorian  for  the  graduating  
class of 1976.  Barbara Ann Mello  

who achieved an overall grade point average of 3.895 with a major in business administration and economics, will deliver the valedic­tory address at the 3 p.m. com­mencement 
"I don't think I'm smarter than most people, I just apply myself. Everytime I meet goal I set a new one for myself," Mello stated. 
A native of South Bend, Mello transferred to St. Mary's from Miami University, in Oxford, Ohio her sophomore year. Having a concentration in accounting, she has accepted a position with Peat, Marwick, Mitchell and Company after graduation. 
"I hope the seniors can take these last couple weeks to reflect on our education thus far, what it has meant to them, their expecta­tions and disappointments with it and renew their commitment to actualizing their individual poten­tial." Mello said. 
There are other plans for the week of graduation: The senior class will attend a concelebrated mass Thursday. May 13, at 10 a.m., in the LeMans Chapel. After the mass, the Alumnae will wel­come the graduating seniors into their association at the Alumnae Senior Brunch at 11:30 a.m. 
High-schoolers program aired 
Area high school students who have completed the junior year are eligible to participate in a six-week summer program in environmental health engineering at the Univer­sity of Notre Dame from June 14 to July 23. 
There is no tuition charge for the Student Science Training Program, which is sponsored by the National Science Foundation and conducted by the University's Department of Civil Engineering. Classes will be held Monday through Friday from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. 
In a project combining group study and individual rese(!.rch, students will investigate the effect of sewer discharges on river water quality. The group study will demonstrate approaches used for engineering and scientific investi­gation through direct involvement in planning. data collection, analy­sis and report preparation. 
Each student also will conduct an individual investigation --labora­tory. field or computer-oriented -­into some narrow aspect of water pollution problem 
The program will be taught by Dr. Lloyd H. Ketchum, Jr., project director and assistant professor of civil engineering. and Dr. Robert L. Irvine, associate professor of civil engineering. 
Interested students may direct inquiries to Ketchum at the De­partment of Civil Engineering, University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556, or phone· 283-6173. 
3rd DISTRICT COMMISSIONER 
On May 4 ~ast Your Vote For "LITTLE JOE" 
Friday. Seniors and their parents may see the ND-SMC Theatre production of Godspell at 8 p.m. in Notre Dame's Stepen Center if they wish. There will also be a cocktail party Friday from 8 p.m. to midnight in the Regina Hall lounges. Admission to this recep­tion is by ticket only. 
Seniors and their families will attend a Baccalaureate Mass Satur­Day, May 15, concelebrated by the Most Reverend Leo A. Pursley, D., Bishop of the Fort Wayne­South Bend aera, and the Fr. Thomas White. White will deliver the homily. 
The 129th annual commence­ment exercises will begin at 3 p.m. in the court of LeMans, weather permitting. After Mello's valedic­
tory  address,  the  Lumen  Christi  
Award  will  be  given.  The  
Academic Affairs  Council  selects  
the winner of this award  from  

nominations by the student body, and the announcement is made at graguation,_ 
Dr. William A. Hickey, vice pr~sident of academic affairs. will then give the honorary degrees. Afterwards, Mrs. Gail Pat Man­dell, assistant to the vice president for academic affairs, will announce the degree candidates. 
President John M. Duggan will confer the degrees, after which the· Honorable John Brademas will address the graduates and all those present. 
i··riMWfPXRTY.STO~tt:···~ 
!OPEN : MON-SAT 9am-llpm! : SUNDAY 12noon 11 pm : ! COLD BEER,WINE, LIQUOR, ! : GORMET FOODS :• : 3114 S. 11 St. NILES, MICHIGAN: 
: .,BIGGEST LITTLE : :••••J..I9.llflfi.~J.9.1Jf..Ili.•~\~.IJJ~At\~ ••••; 
STUDY IN 
SCHOOL FOR SUMMER AND CONTINUING  CJ C3  
EDUCATION  ~  
m  

BARBARA ANN MELLO 
Senior class trip 
.. 
There are approximately 35 places left on the planes for the senior class trip to the Southern California football game. Seniors­to-be who wish to go on the trip can bring their $50 deposits to the LaFortune ballroom between noon and 2 p.m. today. 
Today is the last day to sig!:l up for the trip in the ballroom, but any seniors who wish to go and have not signed up by 2 p.m. today can see the secretary in the student activities office. 
No additional planes will be arranged for the trip, but there will probably be some space left next fall, according to Rob Tully. 

-, 

'~ 
WASHIN~TON, D.C. DURING BICENTENNIAL SUMMER '76 
SUMMER SESSIONS­
Pre-Session ­May 24-June 11 First Session ­June 14 -July 17 Second Session ­
July 19 -August 20 
For Catalogue & Application, Write or Call 
SCHOOL FOR SUMMER AND CONTINUIN' EDUCATION 'EORCiETOWN UNIVEISITY WISIIInrtH, D.C. 20057 (202) &25-3001 
GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY is an equal opportunity/affirmative action institution in employment and admissions. 
a 
~ 
z 
c 
-z 
m< 
~ 
-_, 
~ 


Deluge of Rules 
t 
by terry keeney
I As Graduation '76 approaches and Senior
' 

W cck brings the free flowing of beer, it is appropriate in more than one way to recall the prayer of Alcoholics Anonymous: ''God grant me the power to change the things that must be changed, the patience to accept those things I cannot change and the wisdom to tell the difference." 
Besides the obvious reasons for now remembering this often-used prayer, there is another reason. After four years at Notre Dame, the seniors have acquired a certain wisdom about things that must be changed at Notre Dame and the things that cannot be changed. 
Maybe the most obvious complaint about i this place is that there are simply too many
'( 
rules. The much misunderstood concept of in 
,I 
loco parentis has been translated into rules 
! 
'( and regulations. There is an overconcern with the legality -for example, the Dean of} Students is a practicing attorney. ( For Fr. Hesburgh and Fr. Burtchaell, in loco parentis means a very real and deeply-felt desire to form the values and characers of Notre Dame students. They would argue (and be correct) that at very few universities and colleges throughout the country are faculty and administrators so concerned about the personal development of students. But somehow that personal concern has been buried under a deluge of rules and regulations. In the dorms the rectors and 
I RA 's have often become the student's adversaries. Administrators have often played the role of routinely saying "no" to student leaders on important student issues.
t 
The Student Affairs office is seen as a hindrance to students rather than a help. 
The philosophy of the University is that strict enforcement of rules and regulations maki·s students better persons. The flaw in this philosophy is that strict enforcement of rules leave little room for persons to grow and 
~I make their own discoveries about how to live. 
i 
' 
--·---­
. . ~-~~.:.·-~"':· ~ -..~~ _· ...~ . 
i 
f 
( 
)" _· ~·-.i.~-~. . . ~ .... 
f 
f 
( 
i 
{ 
r 
I 
{ 
f 
Unfortunately in loco parentis and its accompanying rules are not likely to change. It is too much to expect an institution like Notre Dame to abandon suddenly its rules on drinking, parietals, and discipline. Notre Dame has only recently entered the twentieth century. Alumni on campus this week can tell you how recently students had to make bed-check at 10:30 p.m., wear suit coats to Sunday dinner and attend daily mass. For the current administration this was the Notre Dame they knew when they first came here. How can students expect an administration to approve co-ed dorms when mere visitation hours are a relatively new thing? 
Notre Dame is a very conservative institu­tio~fl. It is very concerned about its reputation as the leading Catholic university in America. In some sense this must be a real concern. At a time when private universities are folding under economic pressure, Notre Dame must retain much of the old traditions that provide great nostalgia for contributing alumni and friends. 
But this provides no reason why students and faculty cannot have more of a say over the quality of their lives. Both students and faculty are feeling the frustration of decisions handed down from on high. One need only look at the academic calendar issue. A lot of trouble could have been avoided if students were actively involved in the decision-making from the start, instead ofreactingto seemingly arbitrary Academic Council decisions. The same is true of the problem of basketball ticket prices and the decision to abolish evening departmental exams. 
This view of Notre Dame may seem uncharacteristically cynical to some. But Notre Dame is too good a place to have good people suffer. It is too good a place to allow arbitrary rules or decisions to hurt the good people that live, work and learn here. 
So, as Graduation approaches. not only seniors. but undcrclass students as well, should remember the Alcoholics Anonymous prayer: Many things need to be changed; many things need to be given new justifica­tion; many things need to be accepted.. 
May God grant all of us the wisdom to see the difference. 
Taking some 
When I was first asked to write a farewell column, I immediately balked at the idea. My past experience with reading them, all filled with sentimentality and nostalgia, had con­vinced me long ago that I would not write such a thing. Certainly, there would be time enough among friends to rehash old memories isn't that what all the graduation festivities are for, anyway? And as for recapturing past memories, any attempt would be feeble at best; the memories that each of us take with us from here are as varied as are the individual seniors and their experiences. 
Above all else, I disliked the idea that this was to be a farewell column. Even though we may be graduating, we are not just leaving this campus for leaving's sake alone but we are going out of here to other places, other worlds, whether they be jobs, professional or graduate schools, volunteer work, marriage, whatever. In addition to looking behind us, we must begin, more importantly, to rook into the future and see where we are going. We are not just saying goodbye to the old and familiar but are also opening ourselves up to the new and not-so-familiar. 
Further, to a great extent, we are not leaving this campus behind us. Like it or not, we are taking a good deal of it with us: in our friends, and in memories of them, of good times, of disappointments and of frustrations. Each experience changed us, made us somehow just a little different than we were before. We are not the same now as we were 
when we first came here as freshmen. 

In much the way that we have changed over 
the past four years, Saint Mary's has changed 
as well. When we entered the college as 
freshmen, the first year after the un-merger, 
critics said that the school was destined to 
failure, now that Notre Dame had gone co-ed. 
Relations between the schools have gradually 
begun to strengthen: A co-exchange program 
for both courses and dinner has been in effect 
for the past three and a half years. Social 
events such as An Tostal are jointly sponsored 
by both schools, and many campus organiza­
tions, such as the band and The Observer 
recruit from both sides of the road. 

Ironically, the critic's predictions have not . come close to reality; enrollment for the last 
two freshmen classes have been the highest 
enrollment in the history of the College. 
Plans to begin construction of a $1.5 million 
sports complex are underway. 

Still, just as the years after college become 
a period of "settling down" for a new 
allumnae, so also the next few for St. Mary's 
must be a time of stabilization. With few 
exceptions, the entire administration of the 
College has turned over during the four years 
in which we attended it. There have been 
three Presidents in the past three academic 
years. And this year, four key adminstrators 
have resigned. If leadership of the college 
does not stop changing hands, its direction 
The lost revenge 
by ray ramirez 

I wondered what my final column would be like after four years, and now I'm not too sure. One would think it would be very caustic, but I would'veconsidered that base, and I'm not really sour enough on life here to be acidic and bitter. What I would like to do is give some quick flashbacks of my experiences at and impressions of Notre Dame. 
1972-73--I arrived here as innocent high school graduate, ready to set the world on fire. I was soon extinguished by a most frightening barrage of events and circumstances: calculus tests, chemistry quizzes, overcrowding, coed­ucation (or so it was labeled) ar.d a campus job to top it all off. I was wor·.1 to a frazzle (obviously a semi-formal frazzle). Between living with eight roommates and cleaning mice cages at the life-science center I was 
·going crazy. But I'm going to miss those guys--the mice, that is. 
1973-74--Through constant novenas and failing calc grades I discovered that biology was not the major for me, so I skulked off into English. Not that I felt any loss of ego, it's just that I really missed those mice. It was in this year that I also submitted my first Observer article, which happened_ to be on practical jokes (the medium as the message). Three years later people are beginning to realize that the joke lay in the fact that it was printed at all. 
1974-75--I was a full-fledged English major now and I tried hard to look the part. I was disheveled, read obscure authors and used "thus" in everyday conversation, but I soon tired of this sport and became a normal student soon thereafter. This was also the year I certified my ineptitude through forgetting my room-card and ended up staying in a maid's closet (but at least I had a sink). Just before summer I got a chance to visit the mice again, and I took them some cheese. Ah yes, those were the Gouda-old days! 
1975-76--Which brings us to the present, such as it is. I no longer am trying to set the world on fire: I flame only for personal warmth, and my ego had been reduced to an easy to handle size. Since I plan to take my act on the road to grad-school, a job is not my immediate worry. My immediate worry is beer money. But senior year is not all frivolity. After four years here I have left my maker (though the maid promises after three or four vacuumings no one will notice a thing), and I have had a _good time. · 
(None of the apostles in the painting of ''The Last Supper has six toes on any one foot, though there is one that has only four fingers on one hand.) 

Friday, April 30, 1976 The Observer 

~ ~ Observer Sports 
B I ~~~M~ Gqt~a~r.gdclm,!~ge~Jig~!=lS spring driIIs 
Sports Editor 
After 19 days of practice, num­erous injuries and just about every extreme type of weather imagina­ble, the Notre Dame football team will conclude spring practice to­morrow with the 46th annual Blue-Gold Game. 
''This has really been a rough spring session because of the lack of continuity due to the weather, injuries, late classes and tests that forced players to be late or miss practice at one time or another," Irish Head Coach Dan Devine said. "But what people we've been able to get on the field I've been very satisfied with..'' 
Devine and his staff faces much the same task as they did at this 
expertenced defense, the Insh are once again forced to rebuild the -offensive line, where only one starter from last season returns. This, along with an unsettled quarterback situation, is Devine's 
main concern. 

Before spring workouts began on 
March 29, Devine said that he 
hoped to name a number-one 
q1.1arterback for the upcoming seas­
on at the end of the session. To 
date the head coach has been 
unable to reach that decision. Rick 
Slager, Joe Montana and Gary 
Forystek are all in the running for 
the starting job, although Slager 
appears to have the advantage thus 
far. as he has been working with 
the first team most of the spring. 
"Slager has had three just great 

BiII B r in k ::============!!=======:.':===========::==========:=~:.=====================================:==============:===~=::i8.~=~=~·:!~=:~i=~~~~==~!~~=~~~~~r:==~~=~=J;~==~~;;==~~=~~:::::=f:~~=~:~::::::=:=:===== :::::~:::=:=:=:=:=:=::::::..-:x:::x:::,:::s::~ ~, 
The Final Choices 
.·.~··········:..·.:,·.~.-...~~~~··'-····":!.·•····....···········),· •.,., ..·.!_~·-...,"' •••••••,., ,~,.~,.."' • ·~ • ~~t$.S•• •,_ ••••• •J!, • .... v ••••••••••, • •JJ .,., •••• •.y~, • "._. •••
.•.-.-.·...·.·r,..·.·~.r.......-.4f.•.•.-_.••_•......,.........•.•...•.~:·..·=·=·=·-·.-=--·~...:·=·=·=·:.r_.,.,,:.,?,-,,..,».,:.:.: • ··~·.•!•!-.!·!·:":·•..:·:•;.!•:..-··········x·······:-:··«-=-:-·.-.·.·v•..-......~·~:;·•...-.-..-,..·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:.-.-:·:·:<-~·J-Z•:-:*!~"=·!'.~·~~;J::·:.;·~=--:~:·:·:·!·!·:::·:·:·:·:·:· 
It.will probably take months, perhaps years of reflection before I figur~ ... out Just what four years at Notre Dame means, just how it will affect me. Therefore, I'll leave the touching farewells to the more verbally eloquent writers around here and concentrate on what I pretty much can figure 
out--sports. 
Of course, it's all personal, and I don't deny it. So as I list some of my opinions, you seniors think back over your four years here and formulate yours, and you underclassmen keep an eye out for what yours will be in the future. 
IDGHLIGHTS: 
1. 
23-14 victory over USC in 1973. This is the game that everyone had been waiting for, that had the campus more turned on than any time during my four years. It made the rest of the season, the Sugar Bowl and National Championship possible. 

2. 
71-70. The magic numbers of a magical game, when the Irish broke UCLA's 88 game winning streak. The thrill, drama and pure crowd frenzy made this one unforgettable. 

3. 
The 24-23 Sugar Bowl victory over Alabama in 1973. A classic contest that gave us the only national championship in our four years here. 

4. 
The 13-11 repeat victory over the Crimson Tide in the 1975 Orange Bowl. This one's notable mainly for being a fitting farewell to one of the greatest college football coaches ever, Ara Parseghian. 


S. The second half of the 1972-73 hockey season, when the Irish rebounded from a slow start to narrowly miss the finals. 
LOWLIGHTS: 
1. 
Say the numbers SS-24 and any Irish fan will wince. Called the "Rock bottom of my life" by one ND student, the humiliating 1974 loss to USC will always be a sore spot. Remember, the Irish were one half away from a national championship. 

2. 
The 1973 Orange Bowl defeat to Nebraska was no joy either. 40-6 and we were lucky to get 6. 

3. 
Who can forget the one-point last second loss to Virginia Tech in the 1973 NIT. Losing on a garbage shot made it all the worse. 

4. 
The best Irish hoop team ofthe last four years carried a 25-2 record into Tuscaloosa two years ago and seemed headed for the finals. But Shumate, Brokaw. Clay and Co. got tripped up by Michigan. 


S. The 1973-74 hockey season. With players like Eddie Bumbacco, Ray DiLorenzi, Larry Israelson, Steve Curry, Ian Williams and many other talented players, much better things were expected of Lefty Smith's icers. 
BEST NOTRE DAME PERFORMERS: Football: Dave Casper. He's proved himself in the pros. Basketball: Tie between John Shumate and Adrian Dantley. Both were uncanny offensive performers and super under the boards. Hockey: Bill Nyrop could do it all, and often did. Baseball: Jimmy Smith was often dazzling (and erractic) at shortstop and he was perhaps the best slugger we've seen here. Fencing: Mike Sullivan, a freshman this year, is destined for stardom, if any more is possible. Swimming: Jim Kane set all kinds of records last year and led the swimmers to their best season of the past four years. Tennis: Rick Slager may never know how good he would have been had he devoted himself to tennis instead of football, but he was the best we had. 
we 11 watt to announce our number-one quarterback about a week after the Blue-Gold Game." 
Most Irish fans wouldn't even recognize the first team backfield of Jerome Heavens, Steve Schmitz and Tom Domin. More frequently used backs, such as Mark McLane, AI Hunter, Steve Orsini and Terry Eurick are injured. Only Heavens has managed to stay healthy and retain his first-team status. 
Ernie Hughes, the only returning starter from last season's offensive line, has been hurt this spring but has now returned to his spot on the first team. Joining Hughes in the first-team line are tackles Elton Moore and Steve McDaniels, guard Mike Carney and center Dave Huffman. Ken MacAfee returns at 
tight  end,  where  he  won  All­ 
American honors last sea son.  Kris  
Haines  is  working  with  the  first  
unit at split end.  

The defense is far more settled, with eight starters returning from last season's squad. The front four is composed of Ross Browner and Willie Fry at the ends, and Jeff Weston at tackle. Mike Calhoun and Jay Case are fighting for the spot vacated by All-American Steve Niehaus. Fry is injured and will miss Saturday's contest; he has been replaced by underrated Tony Zappala. 
The Irish may have more depth at linebacker than Devine originally suspected. Steve Heimkreiter, Bob Golic and Doug Becker have all had a fine spring with the first team. Veterans Tom Eastman, Pete John­son and John Likovich are close behind, as is John Dubenetzky, who was converted from strong safety to linebacker this spring. 

in the likes of Ted Burgmeier and Jim Browner. Burgmeier was moved from split end to defense back this spring, and Browner was shifted from fullback to strong safety. They are joined by Luther Bradley and safety Randy Harri­son. Browner injured his hand during a karate demonstration over the weekend and will not partici­pate in Saturday's game. He will be replaced by Mike Banks, a starter last season. 
The first team will oppose the second team in Saturday's tilt. Joe Montana, star of last year's Blue­Gold Game, will be at quarterback for the second team. He will be joined in the backfield by Frank Bonder, Dan Knott and Steve 

w;e~-tlin~; -G~i-d sta~· B~b. G~ii~:.~i~~ j~~t ; . f;~;h~~~:. io~k~-to. b~· ~ ~;~~t one. Track: Tom McMannon was the NCAA indoor champion in the 60 yard hurdles in 1972. ­Golf: There are no standouts, but Jeff Burda is as good as any. 
BEST OPPOSING PERFORMERS: Footbali:There's not much more that Pitt's Tony Dorsett can do to the Irish after twice breaking the record for most yards rushing against ND in a single game. He is spectacular. Basketball: My personal favorite is Keith Wilkes of UCLA. He was cooly superb, graceful yet agressive. And he's making his mark in the pros. Hockey: Michigan State's duo of Tom Ross and Steve Colp have plagued the Irish for the past several years. 
DIRTIEST TEAM: In any sport this goes to Michigan State, who, as it has been proved, will stop at nothing. 
BEST PLAY: Erick Penick's 85-yard burst against USC, and Dwight Clay's corner jumper against UCLA were both picture perfect plays, but the honor has to go to the Tom Clements to Robin Weber pass that clinched the Sugar Bowl and the National Championship. 
MOST VALUABLE BOOKSTORE PLAYER: Aside from the varsity hoops players, this award goes to Mike Bonifer, whose 31 club twice won the championship, with 'Bonnie' winning the MVP of the tourney in 1972. 
MOST TYPICAL FORGOTIEN IDGH SCHOOL STAR: It happens so often here at Notre Dame. But senior Kurt Horton is a typical example of a high school star who sinks into anonymity amidst the great competition here. A great all-around athlete, Horton spent most of his high school career connecting with Pete Demmerle at New Canaan High School in Connecticut, earning all-state honors. At ND his talents have gone unrecognized. 
MOST MISPLACED ATHLETE: AI Hunter. His great talent, which bursts through every once in a while in plays such as his Sugar Bowl run, goes virtually untapped here. The Irish's present three-play rushing offense makes little use of his speed and his moves, whereas the I-formations or wishbones of state schools might. 
FUNNIEST ATHLETE: The clown prince of Notre Dame jocks, Tom Parise, whose humor kept the complex controversy of the past football season in perspective. 
BOLDEST LINE: This easily goes to ND basketball coach Digger Phelps, who, on the Monday morning after the Irish football team had been ravaged for 376 total yards by Pitt's Tony Dorsett, walked into the football office and said to the coaches, ''Hey, you guys going to bring your defense along to Miami this week?" 
THE "NOW THAT YOU'RE GONE, WE KNOW HOW GOOD WE HAD IT WHEN YOU WERE HERE" AWARD: Respectfully, this goes to Ara Parseghian, a legend in his own time, and a man who epitomizes class and distinction. Let's hope we all get out of here the way he did, with our head up high. 
The second-team offensive line has Tom Gullickson and Ray Pattil­lo at the tackles, Dave Vinson and Howard Meyer at the guards, Vince Klees at center, Kevin Hart at tight end and Kenny Harris at split end. 
The second-team line is com­posed of Don Malinak and Ron Crews at the ends, and Ken Dike and Jay Case at the tackles. The linebackers are Pete Johnson, John Dubenetzky and Tom Eastman. The secondary for the second squad has Ron Cullens and Tom Flynn at the corners, Ross Christ­ensen at strong safety and convert­ed quarterback Joe Restic at free safety. 
While the injuries have mounted during the spring, with 19 players currently being listed as injured, Devine has been able to find a bright spot. ''You hate to see injuries," he said, "but at least they've allowed some of our other players a chance to get some good experience that'll help in the fall." 
Despite being satisfied with the team's spring workouts, Devine is not ready to say that this fall's Irish are sure bets to go undefeated. "I'm guardedly optimistic," he said. "We've got a good bunch of kids. a tough schedule and a big challenge ahead of us. I'm anxious for September and the Pittsburgh game to roll around. I think that the team feels the same way.'' 
Tickets for the Blue-Gold Game will be on sale until S p.m. today at Gate 10 of the ACC and will be sold tomorrow starting at 12:30 p.m. at Gates 5,10 and 14 of Notre Dame Stadium. Prices are $2.50 for adults and $1 for youths under 17. Notre Dame students will be admitted free of charge by showing their student J.D. All proceeds from the game go to the academic scholar­ship fund of the Notre Dame Club of St. Joseph Valley. 
Kickoff is set for 2 p.m. 
Women tracks~ers capture first place 
The Notre Dame Women's Track team concluded their season on a winning note with a victory Wed­nesday evening over St. Francis and Huntington Colleges. 
The entire team set individual recards, gaining the majority of their points in the field events. 
Mary Hums placed second in both the javelin (91 '7") and hand discus (82'5"), and Bonita Brad­shaw placed one-two in the long jump with jumps of (15'4") and (14'8") respectively. The team poled 14 points in the field events. 
In the track events, the relay teams were outstanding. Notre Dame won three out of the four telays; the mile relay of Bonita Bradshaw, Mary Hums, Peggy Hester and Helen Weber, the 880 relay of Bradshaw, Hums, Hester and Joya Defoor, and the 440 relay of Bradshaw, Defoor, Hums and Sue Behnke. 
After a full team effort, the Irish walked away with 52 points and a first place trophy. ­


lQ_ The Observer Friday, April 30, 1976 
1975-76: a year to forget ND sports 
by Ernie Torriero and 
RJcb OdJoso 
There will be no flags lowered to half-mast to mark its passing. Black armbands will never be worn to commemorate its existence. Salutary columns will never be written about it. For hardly a reference will be made to the athletic year 1975-76 at Notre Dame. As soon as the year evaporates, it will be quickly forgotten. 
The Irish football squad stumb­led through its worst year since the defeat-plague 1 days of Hugh De­Vore. Notre Dame's hockey and basketball teams ended their res­pective seasons at the same point in the playoffs where they were eliminated the year before. In 
minor sports, the baseball, track, wrestl.ng, tennis and swi · 'ming teams drove competitively ward
L 
mediocrity. Only the fencing team, on top of the nation for most of the year before faltering in the national finals, could manage to adhere to the high standards characteristic of the Irish athlet­ics. Here then is a last look at 1975-76, a page of Irish history scarred by controversy and change. 
FOOTBALL 
Anyone who has ever taken Professor Fischer's Film as Insight course probably is all too familiar with the expression "the pain of change." Yet no expression can better sum up the 1975 Notre Dame football season. It all began on December 16, 1974, two days after the Ara Parseghian bombshell had rocked the sporting community. Speculation had been brewing hourly since Ara's resignation as to who would replace "the Man." ''Fr. Joyce and I went through the list last week," Athletic Director Moose Krause said, "and therP. he was...the guy who was right ne • cto Ara 11 years ago.'' 
When Notre Dame came knock­ing on Dan Devine's door for the second time in just over a decade, the Irish were not denied entrance. Devine was concluding his fourth year with the professional Packers and the times were bellicose in Green Bay. When Notre Dame came with a five-year pact in hand, Devine readily accepted. 
On December 17, Devine was introduced to the Notre Dame community in a twin press confer­ence with Parseghian in the ACC. "Don't fumble it," said Ara as he handed Devine the football for photographic purposes. Never was the contrast between the two men more evident. It was a rare, if not the only, public appearance toge­ther. · 
Devine's first spring practice seemed to go smoothly. He quickly sought ot replace a graduation-dec­imated offensive line and to find a field general to replace Tom Clem­ents.. Frank Allocco separated his s boulder and the quarterback battle would be fought between little­used fm:rth-year man Rick Slager and untested sophomore Joe Mon­tana. By opening night in Boston, Slager had won out. 
The transition seemed to be going surprisingly well, as the Irish won their first three games. This was in spite of a schedule change which forced the Irish to play Boston College in a nationally televised Monday night game and then travel to Purdue a mere five days later. 
After a desultory first half, the Irish scored twice to down B.C.'s gung-ho Eagles 17-3. The Irish started a freshman at fullback and Jim Browner responded with over 100 yards in his varsity debut. 
The following Saturday under sullen skies at Purdue's Ross-Ade Stadium, Luther Bradley streaked 99 yards with a pass interception early in the fourth quarter and the Irish became the first team to shut out the Boilermakers in West Lafayette in over 20 years, 17-0. 
Those first two victories promp­ted Sports lllustrated to place quarterback Slager on the cover with an insert picture of Devine and the title "Devine Week for Notre Dame." It was a proud moment for Devine and his Irish. 
The Sports Illustrated iinx and a Northwestern lineman combined to send Slager to the sidelines in the season's third game. Slager was shaken up with the Irish trailing 7-0 late in the first quarter. Montana completed the drive Slager had started and guided the Irish to 24 more points and a 31-7 victory. 
Montana was the toast of the town that night. But when Mon­day's practice dawned, Slager was back with the first unit. Everyone wondered who would start at quarterback but Devine said he was mainly worried about Michigan State. 
In the pre-game introductions Slager's name was introduced as the ·starting quarterback. But Devine decided on a last-second change and it was Montana who raced out onto the field with the offense after AI Hunter returned the opening kickoff 47 yards. Slager was to return late in the first half, after the offense moved well, but suffered critical breakdowns. 
Not a touchdown was scored until unsung hero Tyrone Wilson caught the Irish defense out of position with 4:08 remaining. Bradley delayed the inevitable 76 yards later. On the next play, Levi J .. ckson canced into the end zone from the Irish four and the Spar­tans had a 10-3 win. 

After what was to transpire in the next two weeks, only the Jefferson Starship would more firmly believe in miracles than Notre Dame would. The bare facts are enough to describe it. Against North Carolina, the Irish trailed 14-6 with six minutes left. But two · last minute touchdowns, the final tally coming on an 80-yard square­out pass to Ted Burgmeier, would see the Irish win 21-14. 
Things looked bleaker the next week as the Irish entered the fourth quarter trailing of all teams, Air Force, 30-10. Three touchdowns later, the Irish pulled off an amazing comeback for a 31-30 win. Hunter's 43 yard run with three and half minutes left set a one-yard plunge by Jerome Heavens for the winning score. 
Both. of the miracle wins were engineered by Montana coming off the bench after the Irish had fallen behind with Slager at the helm. 

The first, of what was to prove many, rumors which inn undated t he media concerning Devine's fu­ture at Notre Dame came to surface through KDKA-radio in Pittsburgh the Friday before Air Force. Announcer Bill Currie reported that Parseghian would immediately succeed Devine and that Don Shula, Miami Dolphin coach would. come to Dulac in 1976. Immedia­tely the preposterous proposition was accepted by many with a "War of the Worlds'' eerieness. 
When Devine learned of the report after the Air Force game he "broke down." University officials quickly denounced the rumor as "Vicious, malicious and thoroughly unfounded." 
This was not the kind of atmos­phere which usually prevails before a Notre Dame-Southern Cal garr.e. Somehow the Irish, at least on the defensive side, managed to put together a strong performance for the nationally televised clash. Yet the Herculean efforts of USC tailback Ricky Bell proved too much. 
The Irish struck first as Hunter raced for a 52-yard touchdown in the first quarter. But after that the Irish offense managed only six first downs in the entire contest and the defense was forced to spend most of the game on the field. Eventual­ly they wore down. Bell and Mosi Tatupu penetrated the tiring Irish for a fourth quarter score that gave the Trojans a 24-17 win. Bell finished with 165 yards rushing an<' the next week the Trojan bubbk would burst. USC lost their next four gan1es. 

In a year of comebacks, the Irish straigl homecourt defeat of UCLA Wisconsin on the last weekend of rebounded strongly against the 95-85. Other important victories play. next two opponents. The defense came over DePaul 89-68, Western A bad game at a bad time caught seemed to be gelling as they stifled Michigan 95-88 in overtime and the Irish in game one of the Navy 31-10 and Georgia Tech, 24-3. road wins at South Carolina 90-83 playoffs at Michigan as the Irish 
The defense was particularly and Da~ton 85-79. lost the first game of the two-gameincredible against Tech, limiting The Irish battled many of the total goals series, 8-3. Yet Notre the Ramblin' Wreck Wishbone to nation's best teams on nearly even Dame came back the next night to 143 yards on the ground. terms only to come up just short. end the season on a high note, S-4. 
With two impressive wins the Maryland and Marquette were Statistically, the Walsh line con­with the rest of college football fru'strating six-point home court sisting of Brian Walsh with wingers going through an off-year, the Irish losses. NCAA champion Indiana Hamilton and Pirus, scored almost bowl hopes were rekindled. That was a narrow 63-60 victor over the 160 points between them. Walsh is, until they ran into Pittsburgh. Irish in Bloomington while NIT led th ~ team in scoring with 65 Or should it be said, Pittsburgh ran titlest Kentucky was a 79-77 win­point~ into them. ner. Defensemam Jack Brownschidle 
303 Tony Dorsett yards later, the For the third straight year Notre was named Notre Dame's third Irish bowl aspirations lay buried Dame's NC t\A tournament was an all-America while also making every beneath the turf of Pitt Stadium as advertisem nt of Wide World of other all-star collegiate hockey the Panther flayed the visitors, Sports. Tht.: Irish knew the thrill of team. 34-20. E~actly what happened that victory when Toby Knight's timely Notre Dame loses seniors Jim day has never been fully explained. tip-in toppled Cincinnati 79-78. Augustine and Tim Byers at the 
As bad as the Pitt game was, it But the Irish also knew the bitter wing slots and Pat Novitzki on was only the beginning of one of agony of defeat when Michigan defense. With the addition of some the most controversial weeks in bounced them in the regional fine recruits Smith is very optimis­Notre Dame history. First, nobody semi-finals for the third straight tic. is certain if the Irish were offered a year 80-76. "With the steady improvement bowl bid and if they indeed turned Notre Dame's leading player, of our club has shown this year, we one down. The story was that course, was Adrian Dantley whose expect to be prime contenders to before the Pittsburgh game, the awesome statistics only partially the WCHA title next year," Smith Irish were headed to Dallas for the reflect his skill as a basketball said. Cotton Bowl, but whatever happen­player. Dantley finished with a ed, the Irish never went. 28.6 scoring average on 58 percent OTHER SPORTS 
Then came a numbing succes­field shooting and 78 percent form sion of articles critical of Devine the line. He topped the team in It was not a banner year for most starting with a "Sport" magazine rebounds with a 10.1 average and of the other Notre Dame varsity piece on his Green Bay troubles, was a skilled passer and defender. sports with the exception of fenc­continuing with a Washington Star He deserved every bit of his ing. article on anti-Devine feelings at unanimous All-America status and Coach Mike DiCicco's swords­Notre Dame and further assertions had a strong case for Player of the men posted a glittering 26-0 regu­about widespread gossip on cam­Year honors. lar season mark and won the pus by the Chicago Daily News. With everyone back and a full prestigious Great Lakes Champion­
The situation hit low ebb when year of experience behind them ship for the second consecutive 
Jim Crittenden, a Miami sports Notre Dame's future looks bright year. A scoring system that per alizes team depth caught the Irish in the nationals where they placed third. Mike Sullivan, Tim Glass and Ed Fellows were Notre Dame's best fencers. 
Bob Golic's trip to the NCAA

*Observer 

finals highlighted a disappointing wrestling season. Bad fielding hurt the Irish baseball team as they struggled below .500. It was a rebuilding year for Denny Stark's swimmers and Noel O'Sullivan's golfers. Jay Miranda in the middle distances led the improving Irish track team. 
************ 
In 1972, Notre Dame's football team lost three games. Rumorseditor described an interview· with with or without Dantley. Although flew that the coach had "lost it."

Devine as disjointed, profane and we're not OMNiscient, look for The basketball team lost a heart­frequently contradictory. The Notre Dame in Atlanta next year. 
breaker in post-season play to endscript read like "The Final Days." 
the season. One year later both theBut the rumors remained rum­
HOCKEY 
football and basketball teams hadors as the administration let the . 

earned the number one ranking.

matter die quickly out of sight. "At the beginning of the year, HISTORY CAN REPEAT.
Following a 32-9 dumping of Miami we· expected this season to be a ALOHA.
before the smallest crowd to see rebuilding one," explained Notre the Irish in thirty years, the team Dame coach Lefty Smith. "But went home to ponder its 8-3 
midway through the season, the Cavs edge Bullets season. 
players really started to believe. in 
In the winter, Devine went out themselves.'' 

a

and posted strong recruiting This newly found confidence The Cleveland Cavaliers beat the season. Names like Speedy Hart, helped Notre Dame to a 1 9-17-2 Washington Bullets 87-85 last Vegus Ferguson and Kevin Muno record, their best finish since the night to win their best-of-seven are counted on for the future. icers came in second in theWCHA\n NBA quarter-final playoff series. Whatever happens, the turbu­1972-73. The Irish were in conten-Cleveland now advances to the lent year of 1975 is over. tion for fourth place for most of the semi-final round to meet the win­season before losing two games at ner of the Boston-Buffalo series. 
BASKETBALL 

•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••. 
Sometimes success can only be •·
• -•
measured in relation to something 

• YEARBOOK •
else. Was the 1975-76 season successful for Coach Digger Phelps • •
•
and his Irish? On the plus side the Irish posted 

a 23-6 record, a winning percent­• • PICKUP • 
age of nearly .800. The 23 wins • •• was the second highest total for a • Notre Dame team in 60 years. The 
• All undergrads may pick up their :• 
Irish became one of only five teams • in the country to qualify for the • • NCAA tournament each of the last 
:1976 DOME on the 2n~ floor Lafortune: : 
three years. The team defeated one member of the NCAA Final 
Four and lost to two of the others : Thursday, May 6 : 
by a total of seven points. It led the nation in rebounding margin and • produced a consensus All-America • ~ 
for the third year in a row. • Friday , May 7 • 
So yes, by most statistical indic­• • es, 1975-76 was a successful seas­on. But what most fans, the 
: ]Jam-4nm :
players and probably Coach Digger 

• r' •
Phelps will probably remember is how close the Irish actually were to : CPA students only; Thursday May 13 : 
a sensational season. The regular season had its : 1 · 4pm Dome office highlights most notably. a third 
•..........•..................:• 
PuhiJ Callahan selected Friday, April 30, 1976 The .Observer 1 1 
St. Mary's names '76-'77 Blue Mantle editors 
by Marti Hogan 1975-76 yearbook while Callahan, a laid out differently, Callahan stat-said. "Since the '75-76 yearbook Puhl also announced the selec-_ 
St. Mary's Editor junior history and humanistics ed, "and we're also changing the went in the red, an amendment had tion of Patrick McKenrick of 
studies double major, served a:s book's way of explaining life at St. to be made to assure that it would Cincinnati, Ohio, as the yearbook's 
layout editor last year. Mary's. be paid for this year," she added. senior photographer. "He'll be 
St. Mary's Publications Commit­"We've already chosen our The budget for the 1976-77 Blue Students, however, may choose here the first week of school next tee has selected Suzi Puhl and cover and theme for next year's Mantle has been set at $12,000. to "opt out" of this fee after they fall to take senior pictures," Puhl Cindy Callahan to serve as editor­book," Puhl said. "Now we're "This money come only from the have paid it. If they choose to do so, said. Sign-up sheets for seniors will in-chiefs and associate editor of the working on the ladder.'' The sale of the books which cost $12 the $12 will then be returned to be posted in the dining halll next 1976-77 Blue Mantle. They will ladder, she explained, concerns the apiece." In previous years, buying them mext fall. "It's optional that Monday and Tuesday. Puhl added replace Cindy Catino and Linda ordering of basic layout in the the yearbook was optional, but now you don't buy it, not optional that that senior pictures will be in color Seymore, co-editors of the 1975-76 yearbook. the price will be included in student you do," Callahan explained. next year. yearbook. The new editors also plan to fees starting next year. "We've • Another result of the '75-76 "We've also chosen a few mem-
Puhl, a sophomore sociology make changes in the format of the tried to include the Blue Mantle fee yearbook's financial difficulties is bers of the editorial board, and we major' was sports editor for the yearbook. "The sections will be for a couple of years," Callahan the addition of a faculty advisor to will make the rest of the appoint­
the staff. Dr. James Heaney, ments before school is out," Puhl 
religious studies professor, has said. Those already chosen are Ann 
accepted the position of advisor to Gunert, senior editor, Barb Dodge, 
N D students urged to cast votes 
the Blue Mantle. "We've never photography editor and Patsy 
had a faculty advisor before, but Jones, business manager. The 
by Maureen O'Brien Joseph Cosgrove, Paul Falduto and Bro. John Lavelle, Democratic since they went into the hole last different section editors and copy 
Staff Reporter Mary Giel are running for the · · year, the administration thought editor remain to be chosen. 
precmct commttteeman, suggests ' Callahan concluded sayt·ng any-
position of delegate to the Indiana that students vote for McCormack: we might need some faculty super-The Indiana Democratic primary state convention. Giel, however, is "Ellen McCormack is a journalist vision," Puhl said. She also added one interested in working on the will take place Tuesday, May 4. not running in the Notre Dame who writes a pro-life column. She is that Heaney has had experience as yearbook should contact her at 4679 Notre Dame students will be able to ·precinct. running in the primary to make a high school yearbook advisor. or Puhl at 5269. vote in the Administration building Also running on the Democratic people aware of the pro-life issue." f e • • • • .~. • • e_. ~ • • ft • • • • • • • • • • 4j j ~•-J 
on the ground floor. The polls will primary ticket are Larry A. Conrad, 
Cosgrove encourages people to • ' iJJt.t CIJOIDnial ·.· · be open from 6 a.m. to 6 p.m. Robert J. Fair and Jack L. New for get out to vote early. "Young I • ~r ·-•. 
Four Democratic presidential governor; R. Vance Hartke and people have a place in politics. We • , ' k J; · ~ •:candidates are running in the Phillip H. Hayes for United States 
primary: Jimmy Carter, Henry M. senator and John Brademas Ed­;::::,~;~t~Tc~~.~gh~~"J!~·· apathy : ant a t mpiiU.llt ~l ~ : Jackson, Ellen McCormack and 
ward J. Malo and Lawrence• D. Lavelle suggests that students go e FEATURING '· · •
George Corley Wallace. Vandewalle for Representative in early to vote in order to avoid the • . _ _ . . • • • ---. I 
Three Notre Dame students, Congress. 
last rush hour. • 
LARGE OVEN-B-AKED : 

Research administrators meet : APPLE PANcAKEs ;:
• I d. . :. -A REAl TREAT-':
here for reg1ona 1scuss1ons :wE NEVER coMPROMisE. WITH ouALITY : 
The Midwest Section of the Donald P. Kommers, director of Research. .. U.S. 31 (Dixieway North).-~ • Society of Research Administrators Notre Dame's Center for Civil . N~tre Dame_Pers~mnel pat!icipa-• (ACROSS FROM HOLIDAY INN) • (SRA) will hold a regional meeting Rights; Susan Fratkin, director of tmg m the sestons mclude Rtchard • • • • • • . ----• in the Center for Continuing Edu­special programs for the National W. Clemens, director of current' • • • • •· •--• ~ •--~-~ ~!. .... 9:~• ._._....... 
cation, Mon., May 3 through Wed., Association of State Universities funds, restricted, meeting chair­
May 5. Governmental and higher and Land-Grant Colleges, and a man; Dr. Joseph C. Hogan, dean of 
education officials will speak at representative of a governmental College of Engineering; Dr. Morris 
sessions on themes of improved agency. Pollard, director of Lobund Labor­
participation and communication. Dr. Richard Stevens, assistant atory; Fr. Jerome J. Wilson, vice­
Following opening addresses by director of University and Man­presisent for business affairs, and 
University President Fr. Theodore power Programs, Energy Research Dr. P.M. Kobayashi, assistant Vice 
M. Hesburgh, and Clarence Berg, and Development Administration president for Research and spon· University of Minnesota, midwest (ERDA) will discuss university sored programs. SRA president, delegates will hear programs supported by the succes­a panel dicuss "Affirmative Action: sor to the Atomic Energy Commis-
Where Do We Have To Get and sion. Faculty seminar Where Are We Now?" Other speakers will include Dr. Moderated by Joseph F. O'Brien 
Syndney S. Wagner, generala dir-held fhi•S SUmmer
director of personnel at Notre ector of the Candadian Office of ' 
Dame, panelists will include Dr. Science and Technology; Dr. 
Charles Hauer, deputy director of An interdisciplinary facult: 
the Division of Intergovernmental seminar on the scientific ancEmil T. chosen Science and Public Technology, technological heritage of Western 
CALL NOW FOR 
and Dr. Edward P. Todd, deputy culture will be held at Notre Dame to receive award assistant director of the Directorate this summer with the support of a 
GRADUATION PARTY RESERVATIONS.

for Astronomical, $5000 grant from the Uniroyal. 
Dr. Emil T. Hofman, dean of the Earth and Ocean Sciences National Foundation. Freshman Year of Studies, was Science Foundation. selected as the recipient of the Todd will be joined by Dr. 
second annual St. Thomas More Suzanne S. Stimler, acting director Award by the residents of Fisher of Biotechnology Branch of Divi­Hall. sion of Research Resources, Nat­The award is given to a member ional Institute of Health, faor a of the Notre Dame-St. Mary's discussion of "NIH/NSF Bio and community who exemplifies the Physical Technology Resources".at virtues of honesty and integrity of a Tuesday session •' NIH Labora­St. Thomas More. Hofman will tory Animal Resources'' will be a 
receive a $25 cash award and a topic for Dr. Charles McPherson, NEW CONCEPr In ; hairstyling for Men 
' ,..."'

plaque next week. director of the governmental 
lOCATED on our lower level with Its 

Other nominees for the award branch. 
own private entrariee way.

were Dominick Napolitano, director Final day session, focusing on. 
COMPLETE PRIVAC-Y In our individual

of non-varsity sports; Fr. Robert ''IndustryINon-Profits/University Griffin, University Chaplain; Joe Interfaces," will feature talks by styling units. Corpora, Notre Dame senior and G .A. Griess, director of scientific 
SIP COFFEE by the fireplace in a relaxed

chairman of the Notre Dame Right liaison for Dow Chemical; Dr. 
atmosphere..

to Life League; and Fr. Jerome Marvin Krasnow, industrial rela­Wilson, vice-president for business tions coordinator at the University FAST SERVICE for carefree cuts and affairs. of Illinois, and Dr. Robert Hender­blow styles. . ... Last year's recipient of the award son, executive director of the 
WE FEATURE RK products.

was AI Sondej. Indianapolis Center for Advanced 


SUNDAY MASSES 
(Main Church)  
5:15p.m. Saturday  Rev. Robert Griffin, C.S.C.  
9:30a.m. Sunday  Rev. Dan Jenky, C.S.C.  
1 0 :45 a.m.  Sunday  Rev. Leon J. Mertensotto C.S.C.  
12:15 p.m. Sunday  Rev. Thomas Stella, C.S.C.  

Evensong at Lady chapel, 4:30 p.m. Rev. 
John Lahey, C.S.C. will be homilist. 
SpecialS p.m. mass Sunday at the Grotto with Rev. Robert Griffin, C.S.C. 
MANICURES for men $4 PRECISION CUTS $5 HAIRCUTS $4 BLOW STYLING $4.50 
!PERMANENT WAVING bv NATURAL MAN /.$~5 $1.00 QFF A PRECISION CUT WITH BLOW ! STYLING WITH YOUR N-0 OR SMC lb 
' 


54533 TERRACE LANE Tues., Wed., Sat. 8:30 -5:30, 1·§i~ Thurs. & Fri. 8:30-8:30 
PHONE 277 -1691 
__-e:; . • ......... ~-­
1 


12 The Observer Friday, April 30, 1976 


Letters to a lonely God 
the young at heart 
Reverend Robert Griffin 
As I have mentioned before, the whole, sweet adventure called the Ordained Life began for me on June 5, 1954. What delights me in this twenty-second Easter­tide since ordination is how young it feels to be a priest. As ancient as God may seem by human calendars, His eternity keeps Him young forever. There is neither line nor wrinkle in the face of Christ; and when ten thousand springtimes have frolicked from April to August across the everlasting 
. I 
hills, His beauty will be as fresh as the violets that awoke with the daybreak. Christ will always be younger than the budding year; and through all the graces of ministry that link His life with mine, I am His contemporary. At the age of ninety, the patriarch of the Holy Cross community, Father Hagarty and I are as young in our eternal priesthood as the youngest cleric ordained for service in ceremonies as Sacred Heart Church last Saturday even­ing. 
God, how I love the beauty of this time, this place, these people. I love the beauty of the campus, the students, the faculty, the staff. I love the beauty of my brothers in Holy Cross who imposed hands on the new priests at the ordination ceremonies last week. You could sense the love and strength in those imposed hands, and the intensity and seriousness with which everyone, from the Archbishop down to the Youngest Member, communicated his share of faith and grace and experience in ministry to Douglas and David, whose shepherd is the Lord of Love. I love the beauty of those two young men who committed themselves, through blessings and anointings, to being witnesses of a fellowship whose best analogy is the vine and the branches. 
I remember the afternoon of the day I was ordained, walking down the streets of Washington, D. C., on the outlook for accidents, auto collisions, or other traged­ies that might require the absolutions and comforts of a priest on duty. I had heard as a seminary lesson of how one newly ordained priest had to crawl under a street car to attend a dying man. How the dying man got under the street car, I will never know; but he was there, and he was dying; and a priest I knew of had to take care of him. On ordination day, swinging along the streets of downtown Washington, I wanted a street car and a dying man of my own. I wasn't grim enough to wish for accidents to happen, of course; but if motor men were going to be careless, and if elderly people were to stumble under oncoming wheels, I was anxious, to be pressed into service. It didn't happen; and for twenty-two years, I have wondered what it would be like to shinny up the trolley tracks under a tram with the pyx and oil stock of the sacraments clenched between my teeth. The distance I imagine shinnying is always the full length of the street car, with oil dripping in my face and all over my new black suit. I have always feared that at some point, some part of my enormous self would get stuck and I would have to stay there forever, until I either starved to death or got thin enough to move. 
My first sick call, when it finally came five weeks later, was to anoint a man who had fallen off a ladder. He was already dead when I got there. I remember trying to comfort his widow and waving off summer flies that buzzed around his head. I felt numb all over, seeing how quiet death 
the entertainment week 
ON THE TUBE 
Friday Basketball (8:00 PM/ Channel 22): NBA playoff action pits the Buffalo Braves against the Boston Celtics from the Boston Garden. Boxing (8:00 PM/ 28): Muhammad Ali takes on third-ranked Jimmy Young at the Capital Centre in Landover, Md., as heavyweight boxing returns to live televis­ion. Howard Cosell (who else?) describes the blow-by-blow from ringside. Midnight Special (12:00 AM/ 16): Sarah Vaughan (who?), Freddy Fender (why?), the Cate Brothers (who again?), and the Bay City Rollers (c'mon, you're kidding) 
join guest host Ray Charles.  ·  ·  
Saturday  
The  Kentucky  Derby  (4:00  PM/  28):  

Honest Pleasure and Bold Forbes head a field of eight in the 102nd annual run for the roses live from Churchill Downs in Louisville. Theater in America (9:00 PM/ 34): Anne Shropshire, William Prince and the Hart­ford Stage Company perform Edward Albee's All Over, a stirring drama centered on the family of a man who lies dying as they wait. 
Sundav 
Issues. and Answers (11 :00 AM/22): It should be an interesting program this week because the guest is Vice President Nelson Rockefeller, . who will probably end up spending most of the time explaining his outrageous charge that certain members of Senator "Scoop" Jackson's Congressional 
staff are Communists. Columbo (8:00PM/ 16): This series strays from its "howzhegonnaketchim" format to a real whodunit in the final episode of the season and, according to Peter Falk, his last. We don't know who killed the yacht-building millionaire Commodore Swanson until Columbo does. California SpUt (8:00/ 28): George Segal and Elliot Gould star as two gamblers who have just as much fun with a pair of dice as they do with a pair of ... , well, whatever. It's either about that or else it's a documentary on the San Andreas fault. I'm really not sure. The Fortune Cookie (10:30/ 16): Walter Matthau plays a shyster and Jack Lemmon is his brother-in-law in this 1965 Billy Wilder satire about two men who bring a 
david o'keefe 
phony lawsuit against the football player who ran into one of them during a game. 
Monday True Grit (7:30/ 28): John Wayne is a delight a·s he shoots. swaggers, guzzles and slugs his way through the West while chasing the murderers of a young girl's father. Kim Darby and Glen Campbell are innocuous enough in their supporting roles, but Wayne's Rooster Cogburn, for which he won the oscar, steals the show. 
The Keegans (8:30/ 22): From the people who brought you Rich Man, Poor Man about an Irish-American family that mobil· izes to try to prove the innocence of one of its members a professional football player accused of murdering his sister's attacker. 
Tuesday Indiana primary: The Hoosiers go to the 
polls. All the major networks will break in 
with coverage during the evening with 
complete coverage beginning at 11:00 PM. 
Wednesday 
No TV-study for finals. 
Thursday 

No TV-still study for finals. 
ON THE SCREEN 
Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid: 
Robert Redford and Paul Newman star in 
this highly· acclaimed tale of two despera­
dos in the Old West. Starts Friday at 
Boiler House II and for nature lovers at 
the Moonlight Drive-In along with WW and 
the Dixie Dance Kings and M*A*S*H. 
Dumbo: Relive your younger days at the ·Town and Country II as Dumbo the Elephant, Timothy Mouse, Jiminy Cricket and two awesome vultures star in this incisive study of the evils of prejudice. 
ON TAP 
Vegetable Buddies: Son Seals, a blues band from Chicago, appears Friday night and Bluegrass Alliance plays from Wed­nesday through Saturday at this increas­ingly popular new bar. The Library: Penny beers from 10:00 PM to 10:30 should provide a nice study break on Monday and Tuesday nights. Appear­ing Saturday night will be Workingman's Talisman. 
can be. I wanted to cry, partly, I think, because there was so little I could do to defeat the sadness. A crowd gathered around the death scene, and some police­men came. I got a little excited when one of the cops called me aside. I thought to myself: "He has something important to tell me." His news was to say that my fly was open. At the rectory, it seems, I had changed quickly into my clerical uniform, and I had overlooked this detail of careful grooming . 
In the weeks after ordination, there was a crisis of sadness in my life: a sadness coming from a fear that at an early age, I had already lived through my most wonderful day. I had looked forward to ordination for so many years; I had dreamt so long of saying that First Mass. Ordination and the First Mass, when those first days came. were extraordinarily moving and joyful, as though the happi­ness were distilled into wine so rare that I could never hope to taste its equal again. Thus I feared that life, forever afterward, would be an anti-climax, its finest mo­ments already over, and I was only twenty seven years old. 
Whether an amnesia has set in or whether I have grown wiser, I'm not certain. I have forgotten what the special happiness that day, and a conviction that 
all  other  joys  had  converged  on  this  
occasion,  then doubled and  quadrupled,  
until  the  moment  came  when  language  

failed; and tears, that language of the heart, began. 
Sometimes now, in a quieter way, I feel again those speechless emotions. As the years pass, I understand that ordination was the gateway to a life filled with the beauty and goodness of people, who are themselves ministers of Christ bearing sacraments of caring and mercy, changing the day into April, the world into spring­time. I hope that David and Douglas find, as I have always found, that the priesthood is a life in which the minister is ministered unto. The Lord said of Himself that He came not to be ministered unto, but to minister. Christ, in His wholeness, could say that of Himself; but with His profes­sional Christians, He is more gent1e, recognizing in them the restlessness of sons tempted to be prodigal, noting the wounds left by brigands when we travel the Jerusalem road to Jericho. 
Last evening, dear friends gave me a prose poem about the ministry of animals. As a watchdog of, the flock, as the servant of the Shepherd, I see in it lessons for myself, as well as a tribute to my own little hound of heaven, Darby O'Gill. 
God summoned a beast from the field and He said, Behold man, created in my image. Therefore adore him. You shall protect him in the wilderness, shepherd his flocks, watch over his children, accompany him wherever he may go--even unto civilization. 
To do these things, God said, I endow you with these instincts uncommon to other beasts: faith­fulness, devotion, and understand­ing surpassing those of man him­self. Lest it impair your courage, you shall never forsee your death. Lest it impair your loyalty, you shall be blind to the faults of man. Lest it impair your understanding, you are denied the power of words. Let no fault of language cleave an accord beyond that of man woth any other beast--or even with man. Speak to your master only with your mind, through your honest eyes. 
Walk by his side, sleep in his doorway, forage for him, ward off his enemies, carry his burdens, share his afflictions, love him and comfort him. And in return for this, man will fulfill your needs and wants--which shall be only food, shelter, and affection. 
So be silent, and a friend to man. 
Guide him through the perils along the way to the land I .have promised him. This shall be your destiny and immortality. So spake the Lord. And the dog heard and was content. 
"Be a friend to man. Guide him through the perils along the way to the land I have promised him. This shall be your destiny and immortality." For an eternal priest­hood, there can never be any ultimate words to describe the service of caring that Christians must exercise towards each other. 
God bless you, Notre Dame. Thank you for letting me be one of your priests for the past year. Thank you for the ways in which you are priest to me. I am looking forward to September when once again hopefully we will be the young of heart in Christ, living the springtime of faith. If you are in New York, come and see me at St. Joseph's Church-in-the-Village. 389 Sixth Avenue, Manhattan-telephone 212-741-1274. Re­member. Darby and I never said we didn't love you. ' 


Your first concert at N.D. was Seals ~ Crofts at Stepan on Sept. 15, 1972 
(Nobody had heard of them and it was only $2.50 at the door) 
1 .............

-·-·~., 
-.. ...... ~-.. ~ ~ . 7 
••~+·~••&m~..·•·'·I?YII'..?...sm•..._.. 
Student Union finances 
"Thanks to the administration of sion made money this year; last former Student Union Commis-year it lost. The Services Commis­sioner Tom Birsic, Student Union sion made more money this year lowered the budgeted deficit of than it did last year due to the films $50,000 to $40,000 this year," said it sponsored. present Commissioner Ken Ricci, The following chart explains the yesterday. expenses and revenues for each 
'commission. Ricci noted that capi­
,'A total cash flow of $750,000 tal expenditure included $8,000 for took place in Student Union activi-new press machinery, which has ties this year," said Ricci. Various paid for itself, for campus press. departments improved financially T}le figures were prepared by this year. The Concerts Commis-Comptroller Marianne Morgan. 
Expenses  Revenues  net  
Academic Commission  15,299.04  -0­ [15,299.04]  
Cultural Arts Commission  40,0786.67  26,932.16  [13,146.51]  
Concerts Commission  192,788.05  197,522.()()  4,733.95  
Social Commission  19,457.55$  11821.07  [7,636.48]  
Services Commission  34,090.92  40,009.44  5,918.52  
Union Administration  2,63994.80  38.00  [2,599.45]  
Campus Press  23,994.80  17,263.10  ~"7,317]  

Projected outstanding charges [&0000.00 Total 328,346.48 293,595.77 [40,760.71] 
Friday, April 30, 1976 The ~observer 
13 

SMC offers linguistics workshop 
St. Mary's is offering two ses­and languages, who will be teach­linguistics, emphasizing their ap­sions of a three-week linguistics ing the course. Although the plication in the classroom. The summer workshop for teachers and course is open to all students, phonologic, morphologic. syntactic prospective teachers majoring in Berberi urges students to take and semantic analysis of language elementary education, English or advantage of the summer sessions. in general will be made with foreign languages. The first ses­The class will meet Monday English as the focal language. sion will run from June 7 through through Friday from 9 a.m. to For more information or registra­June 25. noon. tion, contact Gail Mandell, assis­
"There are no prerequisites for Berberi will introduce the princi­tant to the vice president of this course," said Dilaver Berberi, ples and techniques of structural Academic Affairs, room 136, Le associate professor of linguistics and generative-transformational Mans Hall. 

129 north michigan street, downtown south bend friday and saturday, april 30-may 1 
son seals 
next week: BLUEGRASS  ALLIANCE wednesday-saturday  
MUSIC~  
 
Homemade Food. Popular Prices & No Computers  

St. Mary's holds 
'open campus' 
by Brigid Rafferty Staff Reporter 
"Spring on Campus," the fourth annual social and academic open house initiated by the Community Relations Council, will take place at St. Mary's Sun., May 2, from 1:30 to 4 p.m.· . 
Open to the entire Michiana community, the event will feature an ice cream social at the dining hall, tennis matches near McCand­less Hall, a sale of student artwork, and tours of the library, church, languaJZe labs and LeMans Hall. 
' . ~ ! 
Also included will be a display of crafts made by staff members of St. Mary's, free blood pressure tests sponsored by the Nursing Depart­ment and a Music Department presentation of scenes from Amer­ican musicals and operas. 
Displays by local artists and by the academic departments will also be part of the program. A reception at Stapleton Lounge, LeMans, will allow visitors to meet college president John Duggan and members of the administration and faculty. 
•'This is a chance for people in the Michiana area to see the St. Mary's campus. meet people in­formally, and see how we run things," explained Mike Reynolds,· director of Public Information. 
· ·;~hey receive a map of the c,ampus · .. when they arrive, and then are free · :. t9 dowhat they want. The reaction ~.., ~···from townspeople has been good at 

-· No longer can you store your trunks and other personal 
. . . .... ~ effects on campus, over the summer. So somehow, 
. . '• 

~ ,..:.... -~ 
. . you've got to get it all home. How? 
. ··:· . . _, .~ · . . ~> .( 
-.. ·._ .._ 

,.. _ . The Great South Bend Airlift 
. 

. . . 
• c, 
' 
. 



-. ··past open houses.l•. · .··. ·' . · 
-.. ~ .. ·':. .... --. ' 
..-. 
For your convenience, a special United Airlines truck 
l • ~-... ~
~More information abou"t .. Spring __. on Campus'' can be obtained at the will be parked right on campus to accept your shipn1ents : . .-Public Information Office, 105 Le­
. -._.,, ........ ... _: . .._-··:~_ ·::· ~-.~-anq whisk them to the airport. . 
... ·, Mans, 284-4854. 
' -:'t. ... ~ -. ~ ...
. 
-A student .agent will be·there to help you. 
·-Griffin celebrates 
' 

•. annual May Mass If destination is not one of United's 113-·cities, we'll make all arrangements with the .other airlines. 
Fr. Robert Griffin, University chaplain, will be celebrating his annual May Mass in the Grotto this Where: In front of the Campus Questions? Phone Casey Nolan, Sunday, May 2, at 5:00 p.m. 
Book Store · · N.D. #.8995,
Members of the Glee Club will be present to sing. In previous years 
or 

Griffin has celebrated the Mass on When: Daily-Wed., May 5, May 1but he has decided to shift it United Airfines, 
through Wed., May 12. .. .
to Sunday the second this year. All 
232-8241.

members of the University com­Hours-9 a.m.-noon ~­munity are invited. . -.. ' 
1 p.m.-4:30p.m. ... . .. . . .. 
.. ~ --. . .ERRATUM 6 p.m. -7:30 p.m. ..... .. "; 
0 •• 
..... 
..

Yeserday, the Observer failed to 
-: -· 

note that Howard Hall had nomin­ated Tony Zappia for the Ombuds­No.1intheus.skyman award. The award was presented to Diana Merten and 
UniTED AIRLinES CARGO
D.C. Nokes. 

-~­
--,· ­

J' 

----~~~----------------------------------------­



'! 
J 

'' 
I 
I 
·f 
f 
I 
I 
I 
I 
f 
( 
1 
' 
} f 
I 
( 
'I 
-: 
~ 
I 
r 
:( 
I 
I 
J 
i { 
{ 
I 
( 
The Observer 
on independent student newspaper 
Founded November 3. 1966 
Tht> Obser~er IS publ1shed by students ot the Unlwr'>tt~ of Notrt' DamP and St ,\.1an ., Collt'ge It does not necessanl\· rpflect the poltCIPS of ettbhlt'r m'>t1tut1on Tht' nf'ws 1s rpported as accurately and obhwctf1vdely as pSss1 de
1

1 rhtorlal-. rPprP'>f'nt the opm1on or a maJOrity ot t P : 1tona oar 
Comnwnt.u•e' are the Vtf:'\\hs of mdlvtdualhed•tors h Opm•ocn\ cartoons and regul.u mlumn-. PxprPS'> t e vtews ot t e1r aut or'> o umn '>pace ts ,1, ada hie to a II members of t~e communttV. and lettt'r'> are encouragt'd to promott> tht> trt't' pxpresston o varvmg op1n1ons on campus 
f d•tonal~ 2K \-171'1 
,,.,,, 2Hl Khbl Bu'>lnP'>S 28~-7471 
Advt>rtt'>mg Man<.~gt'r Tom V\'ht·l<.~n
1om ,•.t\odglln 
Friday, April 30, 1976 
EDITORIAL BOARD 
Thonld., 0 Nt•d 
D.w S,uH ht•t 
_ B ~::r~~rh~~..g., p H 
1
n:~~ .~,~~~~ 
,'V\,wrt•t>n ll\nn M •• rt• Hogan Don Rt>1nwr 
l1m 0 Rt>tlf'\ ~ rt'd Ht>rb-.t ,\.1M\ I gan 1 d•tor-•n-Chtt>l 


Managmg Ed•tor 1 \Plut•ve E:dttor f xt><Utlve Edttor 

1 dttonal 1-' d•tor F xt>cut IVf' News Edttor Campus Ed•tor 
St Mary·s 1-'d1tor Copy Edttor I Paturf''> E::d11or Sport'> [d•tor Contnbutmg Ed•tor 

A Year That 
Might Have Been 
This is the last Observer of the year, so we had intended to do an editorial wrapping up the year's major news events and reflecting on their meaning for posterity. But after thinking about it, we realized that there is very Jittle to wrap up. Frankly, this has been an extremely boring year. If we had known that it was going to be like this, we would have suggested solving the calendar feud by cancelling the year for lack of interest. 
The first rule of journalism is ''Get the news." The second rule is "If you can't get the news (e.g., because nothing happened), make it up." So, we have decided to review the 10 best stories which did not happen. 
After careful reflection, we have decided that the top ten are: 
(1) 
Fr. Hesburgh was named Cardinal of Bangladesh and announced that he would keep the presidency of Notre Dame as well. "It will require a little more commuting," he said. "but I'm sure I can handle it." 

(2) 
Fr. Burtchaell's long-planned ascension into heaven was indefinitely delayed when the Federal Aviation Administration denied him a permit to take off from the top of the Golden Dome. Burtchaell was heard to complain that ''there is too damn much governmental regulation of University life." 

(3) 
Student Body President Ed Byrne sued The Observer for Jibel, but lost the case. He complained bitterly after the decision that he would have won "if only the court had folowed the old English rule: the greater the truth, the greater the libel." 

(4) 
Five hundred students died of ptomaine poisoni~g contracted at the1North Dining Hall when $1,200 worth of spoiled ham was not th!''_ .vn away. "We do not believe in wasting food," explained Dining Hall Manager Larry Aronson. 

(5) 
Thirty people were missing for two weeks when the 12:15 Saturday night shuttle 


was lost on the route between St. Mary's and Notre Dame. They were eventually found on the 14th floor of the library where they were subsisting on the left-overs from Fr. Burt­chaell's Easter party. None could explain how they got there, but the driver guessed that he "maybe took a wrong turn on the Ho Chi Minh Trail." 
(6) The Administration carefully consulted 
· the student body and faculty on a proposal to make all members of the Class of '76 stay for a special summer session featuring a theology class entitled "My Talks with God," to be taught in the stadium at 8 am by a videotape of Fr. Butrchaell. Administrators admitted that students and faculty unanimously opposed the plan, but said, "We're going to help the students whether they want out help or not." 
(7) 
Hesburgh replied to a Student Life Council proposal within 24 hours. His reply was, "No!" and he said that he had had 100 copies of the message run off for future use. ''At the rate the SLC acts, that should last me till 2001 --which is when I plan to l·etire." 

(8) 
St. Mary's completed a $5 million sports complex, complete with two Olympic pools and a beauty parlor. The next day, their library collapsed. 

(9) 
The Notre Dame football team went professional and became the newest NFL expansion team. It hired John McKay as head coach. (Dan Devine was rumored to have resigned to accept a new position as Jimmy Carter's campaign manager.) 


(1 0) We leave the tenth spot blank. Fill it in with whatever the Administration springs upon the students after The Observer quits publishing, and everyone is cramming for finals. 
We hope these do not give anyone any 
ideas, but couldn't someone do something 
exciting next year? Please? 

I I 
l 

Child Poobah 


Editor's Note: The Observer has lessons. His favorite school subject said some unkind things about Ed is science. Byrne in the past year but we would not want our relationship Eddie feels that as president of with him to end on a sour note. the Student Council he would have Therefore, as our final tribute to to show extreme responsibility for this student leader before he the simple reason that he would be passes away into the life beyond the highest youngest in the school. Notre Dame we publish this little He thinks he would have to be a known document from the days of good talker because he would have his Youth. to talk a lot with the student body. 
The original appeared in the He thinks a good president should Chapman Highlights, a paper pub­also be creative. As president, lished by the "Student Leaders Eddie would try to get a set of rules Club" of Chapman Elementary to see if there are any more he feel School, Cheshire, Conn. [The Ob­s should be added and which ones server cannot reveal how our are being enforced. Eddie doesn't far-flung network of confidential have any suggestions for improving sources discovered this document -Chapman because he feels a lot is or what wUI be discovered next.] being done now. To Eddie, the biggest problem of the students is 
Eddie Byrne is a sixth grader in that they have little self-discipline. Mr. Smith's room. His hobbies are reading and collecting postcards. As vice-president. Eddie would Eddie's outside interests are 1 set a good example and fill in for Scouts. science club and music the president when he is absent. 
[8]~~~~~~[8] 
seriousIy, foIks~!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~ 
A Better Mousetrap 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiart buchw aI d 
WASHINGTON--Postal officials have admitted that they now have machinery that can destroy pack­ages in minute~. This is the latest breakthrough in postal equipment that has made the U.S. Postal Service S) stem the most modern in the world. Neither the Soviets nor the French. the English. nor the Chinese have yet to develop mach­inery that can shrcad, tear, and crush parcel post in such a short span of time. 
The inventor of the machinery is Rexrode Monica, who had been working on the project for years-­first in his basement. then in his living room and finally in his garage when his wife kkkedhimout of the house. 
Rexrode is very angry that in all the news stories about crushed mail packages he has never gotten any credit. "If it weren't for me." he said. "the post office would still be back in the stagecoach era and packages would be arriving in the same form they were sent." 
'·When did you get the idea to develop a machine that could actually mangle packages while they were being processed?" I asked him. 
"It must have been 10 years ago. 
I ordered a vibrator from a mail­order house and when it arrived it was in perect condition. The string was straight, the brown paper wrapping was unmarked and the stamps were in place. I was carrying it into the kitchen when I dropped it from a height of about three feet. When I picked it up again I noticed one end of the box was crushed. It suddenlv occurred to me that if I could" invent a machine that could crush packages like that. the post office would buy it in a minute." 
"Most great inventions come about by accident," I said. 
"I had this friend. Dr. Watson, who was an engineer and had done research in garbage compactors," Monica continued. "He said he would be happy to work on it with me. He thought the garbage compactor would not be acceptable to the post office because the price of one for crushing mail would be too costly. He figured the answer was a conveyor belt that could jam up the packages as they moved 
... ....__ -~--­
along so they could destroy each other. Actually. we got the idea from the airlines that have been doing the same thing to luggage for
.. 
years. 
"So you designed a conveyor belt that could jam packages as it moved along?" 
"That was the idea, but we discovered too many packages were getting through undamaged. The problem was the packages were being placed on the conveyor belt by hand. The employees. for some reason, weren't lining them up tight enough to be jammed up somewhere along the way. I then got a brainstorm after driving by a junked automobile lot. I noticed a crane lifting a stripped-down auto­mobile to a height of 30 feet and then dropping it with a thud. I immediately went home and de­signed a crane that could take a mailbag full of packages, lift it 30 feet and dump it on the conveyor belt so the packages would all be jumbled up." 
Monica continued, "We built a prototype in the garage. When it was finished Watson operated the crane in one room and I waited n the next room at the end of the conveyor. We had filled the mailbag with all kinds of packages, but to make sure the thing would work we wrapped and tied them doubly stong as well as Scotch taping them on both ends. Watson and I both tried to break them open by hand but found it was impos­sible to make a dent in any of them. 
We put them in the mailbag and hoisted the bag off the ground. Then I went into the other room and pushed a button to start the machine. I heard a terrific series of crashes and then sounds of paper tearing. string breaking and boxes being mangled. In three minutes bits and pieces of the packages. so badly damaged they were hardly recognizable, started appearing at my end of the conveyor belt. Everyone had laughed at us. but we did it. We perfected the perfect package mangling machine for the United States Postal Service." 
"Wpw, that must have been some moment ... I said. "What did you say?" 
"Dr. Watson, come here. I need you. 
--~ ·~­

--· ­

----------------------------------..............................................., 
P. 0. BoxQ 
complaining party had been Mexi­the band. 
can-American or Oriental-Ameri­I call upon you, sir, to answer
A Little More 
can or even white then the Univer­this challenge: What is the role of a 
sity would have just ignored the Catholic University in such a case 
entire issue. where the very persons for which it
Disappointed 
I feel that the majority of the claims to exist are not allowed to 
black community would agree that pursue important activities because 
Dear Editor: no discrimination took place in this of the rigid enforcement of a law 
instance. And yet it is the black supposedly enacted for the good of 
In the article explaining the logic community that will have suffered the community? (?) of 8:00 a.m. exams, Pat Tack most once this whole affair has I further challenge you to defend stated that while agreeing with the blown over. And they will have the actions of the security force policy, " ...we're (the Student Gov­suffered solely because certain before this community in the ernment) a little disappointed that individuals have abused their black example I have given you, and to he (Burtchaell) didn't go through status and have tied up the equal answer the problem directly rather the Faculty Senate." Perhaps it is rights issue with their own personal than tell us how to avoid getting the time that the student government aspirations. same response from the guards in learns that we are a "little disap­Jorge A. Ferreiro the future. pointed" that they didn't go I pretend no hesitancy in saying through the student body. that I am thoroughly disgusted by 
Students at ND have but one this little game practiced upon us,
Dishpan

voice in the decisions of academic and I am left with no other 
policy, that of the student govern­conclusion at this time then that the
Diplomas

ment. When it fails to speak for the University is entirely unconcerned 
students and instead only reiter­by the needs of the students when
Dear Editor: 
ates the desires of the administra­these needs conflict with existing 
tion, the student government dev­regulations.
Robert Hutchins some years ago,

iates from its designation of a Come out from behind your laws, 
when he was president of the 
government "of and for" the Notre Dame, and treat us as fellow
Universtiy of Chicago, suggested
students, and becomes merely a community members!
that everyone should be awarded arubber stamp for Father Burt-college diploma at birth. Notre
chaell. · Thomas J. Thompson
Dame has gone one step further byWhile the student government awarding "diplomas" at gradua­policy, goud
supports the new a tion to spouses of M.B.A. candi­
majority of the students strongly dates for their help with typing, oppose the idea with a sound basis. 
cooking and other wifely chores 
Unwanted at
Eight a.m. is hardly the students' that women so love to dointellectual peak period of the day! 
My husband now is disappointed Due to the fact that the students to find that at graduation he will be 

St. Mary's

now use the afternoons prior to the only spouse not so rewarded.
evening exams for studying, exams 
Sorting It All Out 

Two years of faithful dishwashing Dear Editor: at 8:00 a.m. will only encourage down the drain. And my son will
early awakening and all"nighters. On finding that the tennis courts
not be noticed though he hasThis will result in an increase in regularly taken out the garbage, at the A.C.C. were full, my partner cuts, as students will skip their nor my daughters who have wash­and I decided to try the courts at St. classes following the exam to get Mary's. Being one of our infre­
ed, cleaned and shopped to make
the sleep lost while studying. If a quent visits to St. Mary's, we iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii~ renard a. g u eringer
higher education possible for mo­
student does attend classes immed­thought that besides getting in a
ther. iately following exams, the atten· ·Should I complain to HEW that few hours of tennis, we might meet I am writing in response to the two letters in last Friday's tion span is impaired due to the my husband is being discriminated some girls. On arriving at the Observer, commenting on the Student Activities Adminstration's lackadaisical attitude resulting against because he is not being courts near Regina Hall, we found decision to add more people to the 1976-77 cheerleading squad. from "coming down" from the given a diploma he didn't earn? one opening, only to find we could previous exam. Alas, it is a harsh and cruel world. not play. A man on one of the The letter entitled "Minority Tokenism" suffers from several Father Burtchaell's statement courts said we could not play unless major misconceptions. Though the controversy started when Ms. about the late hours and lack of Lois B. Warren were accompanied by a girl from Joya DeFoor did not make the squad, it soon became apparent upon involvement of students is no St. Mary's. But how could we, if we examininR the cheerleader's constitution, that the procedural 
argument for a change in time for were there trying to meet some discrepancies found and the ethical questions raised not only allowed exams. An exam requires a certain while we were playing? Neverthe­for ''possible" bias toward one individual but several. amount of time for studying. The Letter or less, since Notre Dame has no such 
whether it be in the afternoon rule, we would not have expected One might then incorrectly infer that the judging was fair before an evening exam or all St. Mary's to have such a regula­nonetheless. That is. everyone would have been subjected to the
The Spirit?night, before a morning exam. Is it tion. same bias. Not true. The bias in question stems from special better to miss some activities or inter-relationships between certain judges and contestants. some classes? Dear Editor: Before leaving, the two of us Therefore, the concerned students involved decided to draw up a 
noticed that there were more courts petition to voice their legitimate grievances. It was only then that 
David B. Kirk The following letter has been sent by McCandless, so we decided to Ms. DeFoor became aware of the student's activities. 
With support of 4th floor Stanford to Dean Roemer. try them. At these courts we Furthermore, contrary to popular belief, the students involved were 
On Saturday, April tO, I attended encountered no difficulties for not all blacks. 

the Stanford Hall formal. Earlier I about a half hour, until a security 
purchased several cases of snacks, guard drove up and kicked us off. The petition, itself, cited constitutional violations--judge ratio,
From Fiasco 
a large anount of cut flowers, and He said that the man who had point system, etc. and ethical violations--nepotism, judge isolation, other materials for making glass kicked us off at Regina was the etc. It called for a rescheduling of ttryouts for all contestants and a
To Absurdity 
flower vases as table centerpeices. director of security and that we had new board of all outside judges from the N.C.F. (National All of these articles I brought on better leave as quickly as possible. Cheerleading Foundation.) There was no demand for a "quota" of Dear Editor: campus before the six p.m. dead­He also threatened that if he ever black judges, nor was any bias cited on this account. 
This last Wednesday night the. line. Because my roommate and I caught us on the courts again, we cheerleading controversy turned took out dates to dinner before the would be in "big trouble". Now, let us examine some of the "wrongdoings." "Some blacks from a fiasco into an absurdity. In format; it was necessary to leave here at the University have decided to abuse their minority status an unprecedented decision on the the flowers in water in my room, As we arrived at the car and were and cry discrimination whenever they don't get their way." Add to part of the University, two new lest they would die left shut-up in about to leave, we found that the that the statement a few lines down. "I would like to admit that I do cheerleading positions have been the trunk of the car. guard had followed us. He then know of allegations which would indicate that the original process of added to the cheerleading squad On returning to the campus at proceeded to take down our license selection 'may' have been unfair." In other words, though there is for next year. And just as I apporximately 8:30, we were infor­number. I presume it was just cause for legitimate grievances, blacks should not be the ones to predicted earlier (in a letter which med by the east-gate security another method used by the guard bring it up. They constitute a small percentage of the student body appeared in the April 23 issue of guard that no student was to be to persuade us not to return. Also, and should be appreciative of their status here by not rocking the the Observer) the female squad allowed to drive on-campus that to our dismay we could see that boat. Clearly, this reflects the racist attitude that minorities should member chosen was Miss J.J. evening, regardless of reason. none of the courts at Regina were "stay in their place." Blacks are students here as much as anyone Defoor, a black student here at Fortunately, it now seems, divine being used. else and have the right to demnd a fair shake for themselves as well Notre Dame. providence saw to it that I injured as for the rest of the student body. 
The impact of the decision is myleft ankle four weeks ago and We feel that we were treated overwhelming. The University has that my leg was in a cast. Oh! The unfairly since only the security In comment upon the cheerleaders' letter, I would like to say the bent over backwards to avoid the guard's eyes lit up as if I had shown people were the ones giving us any following: Yes, the decision madeto add two more cheerleaders public cry of discrimination without the ruby slippers at the gates of trouble. None of the girls said does come across as appeasement. However, I find myself in even seriously considering whether Oz, for the medical emergency anything about the rules. Besides, agreement with it on these grounds. To tell those who did make it or not real discrimination ever took qualified us for admission to cam­the sign said, "St. Mary's staff, after all their hard work and sacrifice that "No, you are not a Notre place. The pettiness of their action pus! I am also led to understand students, and their guests only.'' Dame cheerleader. You'll have to try out all over again." is more can be seen in that the outcome of that the band which played at the Are we not guests of St. Mary's? than I think we can reasonably ask of them. On the other hand to the selection process could have formal was refused admission to We could understand, that if other tell the rest of the people that although we did find procedural been, and was, anticipated well campus to pick up their equipment, people of the St. Mary's commu­errors and ethically questionable practices, we'll just chalk it up to ahead of tVoe. Actually, the and succeeded finally only after a nity were waiting for a court they experience, and we'll get things straight for next year's try-outs, University should have saved itself lengthy argument. would have priority, but there were isn't quite fair either. I base my statements on my own personal some time and trouble by just What I wish to call to attention no other people looking for an open observations of the try-outs and on reliable sources both pro and appointing Miss Defoor to the here is the moronic pursuit of the court. Also, w; thought that being con. cheerleading squad outright. But letter of the law. It seems only able to play at the St. Mary's tennis imagine that a "fair" selection obvious to me that what we have courts could only enhance relations I think the Student Acitivites Administration's decision is process saved them some face. here is a case of absolute irrespon­between the students, but apparen­realistic, provided, they are helping the cheerleaders defray the 
When one considers what has sibility to the needs of the commun­tly we were wrong. I gues we still increased cost due to the additional members. More importantly, happened in this case, I think that ity. The actions of the security won't be getting over to St. Mary's however, the decision does provide the equity I feel that all students one is forced to arrive at the guards that evening completely very often after our unfortunate involved deserve. conclusion that justice was not jeopardized the success of our hall experience there. 
done. Justice is blind. It sees no formal. Had luck not been on our To the 1976-77 Notre Dame cheerleaders I offer my support and difference betv•een white and bla­side we may not have been able to CralgLem best wishes, ck. I honestly feel that if the either prepare the tables or equip Mark Lynch 

. ':"' ....., ­
.. J.'~-· 


'Women Exploited' founder advocates Pro-Life 
by Frank Tennant StaffReporter 
"Every pregnant woman feels threatened since the Supreme Court decision legalizing abor­tion," said Laurie Nelson last night in the Library Auditorium.She deli­vered her presentation, "Why I Became Pro-Life after my abor­tion," to an audience of SO people, predominantly women. 
Nelson stated many pro-abortion people say they are for giving the woman the choice of having the abortion. Our society does not give the woman free cho{ce according to 
It's almost finals time, so naturally these Grace residents are climbing the walls. [Photo by Marc Ricca] 
New I D ' S to Consternate 
• I d d • k 
and encouragement to women who
potent18 Un erage r1n erS have had and
abortions regret 
by Marianne Schulte 
Senior Staff Reporter 
Underage student drinkers at Notre Dame will be presented with a greater challenge in paratyping identification cards. Next year a new type of student ID card will
f, 
replace the old familiar one. 
The new identification cards will be used for the entire school year and are claimed to approach the limits of alteration-proof.
I, With an appearance akin to a regular charge account card, the front of the card will retain the usual student picture and dining hall number complemented by the Notre Dame seal on a gold-beige backp,round. A space for the stu­denfs signature will be provided on the flip side of the card. The trick of the new card will be 
BULLA SHED 
~I 
MASS 
AND DINNER 
5:15 

j 


Friday, April 30, 1976
16 The Observer 
Nelson who cited many influences on the woman's decision. 
Friends' and family are a grea1 influence according to Nelson. Often women with an unwanted pregnancy will have friends tell them it is her own decision to make yet Nelson said they are unable to make their own decision due to the nature of being pregnant. 
"If family and friends don't give het support then she relies on counseling at the clinic," said Nelson. This counseling is pro­grammed toward having· the abor­tion, she added. 
Nelson drew largely on her own 
~~ud'::, i~r~:;,.~i~end Tf~; st~~:~~·~ N~J:Y.L~..f.~ 
name, indentification number and birth date will be carried on the SPORTLAND 
card in a high emboss· similar to the punched-in numerals found in a U S 31 NILES 
regular· credit card. In past years, ..:~~~·~·~~;;;~;;.-;-;-;-~~-~-~~~·;·~·~·;;·~·~·~4~.Jf~Jf:~¥~*-~:Y.~¥~¥~¥~~~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~,.;·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·
onlv the student's identification nu~ber was in high emboss. 
The Registrar's Office claimed that the switch to this new type of card holds no connection to the illegal practice of some students paratyping their ID's or altering the birthdate on the card at registration. 
The reasons offered for the change in the card are related to far-ranging goals of the university. The new ID card is hoped to facilitate a smooth transition to an increasingly computerized system and a change over to a Mag-stripe system in the near future. 
experience of having an· abortion. She termed the counseling session at the clinic a farce saying, ''They get ·you in hospital gowns and slippers to mentally prepare you for the abortion." She remarked it was not even a private session. 
At the clinic a woman is psycho­logically brainwashed through euphemisms. Some examples she listed were, contents of the uterus, potential human life and bringing on the delayed period. 
Nelson claimed the clinic lies and does not tell the women the full story about abortion. She said they told her it would not be a very painful operation. She then evoked laughter from the audience by her descriptions of the pain. 
The clinic says in its pamphlet that a woman cannot become sterile from an abortion. Nelson countered saying that in Japan, where abortion has been legal for 25 years, nine percent of the women complained of sterility. Nelson also claimedoneout of every four women who have abortions cannot carry future babies a full term. She said the clinic does not tell this to clients. 
Physical shock 

"The clinic also doesn't tell about the physical shock to the woman." She explained that the woman's body has been preparing for the baby for six or eight weeks 
and when all of a sudden it is 
removed the woman undergoes 
great physical shock. The change of 
mental attitude after abortion 
which most women experience 
corresponds to the physical shock 
of the abortion according to Nelson. 
Nelson is one of four co-founders of Women Exploited, formed in 
May 1975. After her abortion she felt as if forces had taken her baby away. She said the only way she 
could go on living was to fight back 
against these forces which had 
taken her baby.

Women Exploited has two main 
functions. First, they give support them. and help them get involved in pro-life activities. Second, they provide information, support and encouragement, to keep the baby 
or give it up for adoption, for women considering abortion or women who feel abortion is the only solution to their problem pregnancy. 
The question and answer period turned into more of a discussion which was heated at times. A laqy from the local Birth-Right organ-

ND-SMC VOTE May 4 
Joe Cosgrove 
and 
Paul Falduto 
to represent you. at the lndiar1a Democratic Convention 
·¥••••••..~¥¥······~················
t COLLEGE EDUCATION t 
* * 
t corner of Logan and Jefferson ~ 
* * 
~ FINEST ~
* * 
.1 24 ·HOUR RESTAURANT 1 
.....-.....­
; IN MJCHJANA ;
.....-.....­
* . . * 
1 catering to 1 
.....-.....­
: ND-SMC LATE NIGHT NEEDS :.
* 
1 ""­
;: FEATURING COLLEGIATE SPECIAL·:' :;:
* * 
~ "JACK OMELET" : 
i Daily Lunch ~pecial Hamburgers i 
lf-• 
~ BREAKFAST SERVED ANYTIME ;
:: .....­
· · 
ization stole th.l attention of the audience from Nelson and helped answer some of the questions. 
Nelson said her organization provides on the spot counseling right in front of the clinic. There they give their side of abortion by telling them "what we wish we had known then.'' She calls each wo­man who tun~s away from the clinic a miracle and claims they stopped counting when they reached 60 such miracles. 

J 
,.~­

t' ..... 

Friday, April 30, 1976 The ·Observer 17 
HPC honors interhall football stars 
by Jay Tidmarsh Staff Reporter 
The Hall Presidents' Council (HPC) honored the members of this year's Interhall Football League All-Star Team last night. HPC chairman J.P. Russell presented certificates to the players. 
The offensive unit of the North Quad All-Star Team included quar­terback John Feeney of Keenan; running backs Mike Carini of Flanner, Bill Blum of Stanford, and George Faherty of Keenan; receiv­ers Mike Schuff of Flanner and Pete McCarthy of Grace; center Jay 
Broeck of Flanner; and offensive linemen Jerry Vitiello of Cava­naugh, Bill Horan of Stanford, Steve McGregor of Holy Cross, and Jim Gaitis of Flanner. 
On the defensive unit were defensive ends Don Bishop of Keenan and Kevin Downes of Holy Cross; defensive tackles Dave We­nke] of Stanford, Rich Neville of Flanner, and AI Sondej of Keenan; linebackers Pat Parozzi of Grace, Jim Kerrigan of Keenan, and Phil Volpe of Flanner. 
The specialty team consisted of punter Joe Kern of Keenan and 
measurments wiII be taken for 
CAPS and GOWNS 
MONDAY IS THE FINAL DAY!!!!!!!!! 
between 
9:00AM­
4:30PM 
punt returners Paul Gillespie of Flanner, Larry McCreef of Holy Cross, and Gerry Mares of Grace. 
Mike Parseghian of Keenan was the head coach, while the offensive coach was Jay Mayer of Stanford and the defensive coach was Phil Volpe of Flanner. 
The offensive team of the South Quad All-Star Team was quarter­back Tim Puntarelli of Morrisey; running backs Steve Thomas of Pangborn, Greg Oberland of How­ard, and Craig Tigh of Off-Campus; receivers Tim Holroyd of Dillon and Bobo Zierk of Off-Campus; center Kevin Corcoran of Alumni; and offensive linemen Randy Lee of Dillon, Pete Achacoso of Howard, Gary Hankamer of Pangborn, and Pete Chimento of Alumni. 
Starting for the defensive unit were defensive linemen Tom Fori­stel of Sorin, Bill McManus of Morrisey, An~P.lo Buffalino of A­lumni, and Dave Faainuinu of Dillon; linebackers Frank Driscoll of Alumni, Bob Daipos of Pang­born, Mike Van Acker of Alumn' and Pete Riley of Dillon; and defensive backs Jeff Carpenter of Morrisey, Ben Marshall of Sorin,a nd J .J. DeMattai of PanJozhc>rn 

The specialists were kicker Joey Nickolson of Pangborn and punter Tim Bourret of Morrisev. 
The coaches were Ji~ Jeffers of Pangborn and Paul Linehan of Dillon. 
The offensive unit of the Girls All-Star Team included quarter­back Ann Eisele of Walsh; running backs Terry Welsh of Lewis and Sue Behke of Lewis; receivers Becky Thornton of Walsh and Anne Borges of Lewis; center Maria O'Neill of Farley; and offensive linemen Molly Murtagh of Walsh and Patsy Blackman of Lewis. 
Heading the defensive team were defensive linemen Nancy Cox of Farley, Sharon Lopez of Lyons, and Diane Halliway of Lewis; linebackers Mary Ellen Burchett of Farley, Nancy Kern of Walsh. and Chris Burns of Lewis; and defen­sive backs Kitty Ryan of Lewis and Patty Kuhlick of Lyons. 

\\There great beaches are jttst the he2im1ing. 
You'll find just about every kind of beach along our two hundred miles of Pacific coast­line. Beaches of white, gray and black volcanic s.and. Beaches for snorkeling, fishing, sunbathing and even surfing (at Sunzal, you might find the per-feet wave). And all within a thirty-minute drive of the capi­tal city of San Salvador. 
!~~J In fact, because El Salvador is a small country, you'll dis­cover dozens of exciting activi­ties within easy reach. Water skiing on shimmering crater lakes. Colonial churches and teeming native markets. Tower­ing volcanoes and cloud-cov­ered forests. Or disco dancing after dark. 
And El Salvador is one of the most affordable vacation spots in the world, with every 
instituto salvadoreno de turismo ' 
fl'_l-·---------------...------------------. 
Send to: El Salvador, P.O. Box SOL Farmingdale, N.Y. 11735 104A O Please send me more information about student tours to
~j 

El Salvador. 1048 0 I'd like to learn more about representing El Salvador on my campus. CODE: 104 H Name _______________________________________________ 
Address ______________________________________________ 
CitY------------------------------------------------­State------------------------------Zip_____________ 
type of accommodation, from first class hotels to scenic camping sites. The rate of ex­change for the dollar is the same as in 1934--so your money still goes a long way. Best of all, you'll find our local residents as friendly as the year-round springlike climate. 
Send us the coupon below, and we'll send you more in­formation on El Salvador. (Special note: if you'd like to represent El Salvador on your campus and help organize group tours, we can make your own stay with us even more rewarding.) 
El Salvad~r • 


Friday, April 30, 1976
18 The Observer 
J
) ; 

1
I 

. 
.
~ ­
'· 

Bro. Leo. V. Ryan, C.S.C., dean of the College of Business Admin­istration, has announced the selec­tion of four Business College faculty to participate in five semin­ars, four during the 1976 summer period. 
Dr. Jae Cho, associate professor of finance and busines economics and chairman of the college's 
committee on the value's seminar, was selected as one of the partici­pants to attend a seminar on the role of responsibility of business in 
TRADE 
CENTER 
5-Drawer Dresser--$5, plus set of 4 kitchen chairs--$5 totaL 233-0137. 
Small Refrigerator; excellent cond. $25.00 at 1340. 
Comfortable Armchair and 3-shelf bookcase for sale or trade. Price Negotiable, call 283-8539. 
Wanted--used men's 1 0-speed bike, 26in. frame. Will pay up to $60. Call 
Kitty 1328. 
Multi-colored 8ft.x14ft. carpet. Good Condition, only$12. Ask for AI at 3123. Can be seen at 203 Holy Cross. 
Rugs on sale. Limited number available. Contact Paul at 3510. Hurry for the good buys. 
!1N4? Orange Plush Shag carpet, 14ft.x11ft. : sell for $50. Juliette Refrigerator-freezer, with stand, $40. Call 3898. 
Rug and multi-yellow colored chair $15; Call Mike at 3010. 
Serve! Refrig. meets univ. specs. Call Tom 8239. 
For Sale: 31/4X61/4 Drafting Table, Large Retrig., hide-a-bed, large chair. Best offer. John 287-6493. 
4 decorative Mediterranean oak shelves. Call Pat 7983. 
Green corduroy bedspread, ward­robe cover and floor-length drapes, Call Pat 7983. 
'74 Suzuki 185; Must sell; Best offer. Pioneer. RT1020 TAape Deck and Tape collection $550 or Best offer. 288-9646. 
Will sell matching couch and chair-­$25; b&w TV (Zenith, 19 inch) $40; Stereo Stand--$1 0. Call Tom 8684 or8685. 
1 Lrg. Brn. Rug, 1 chest of drawers, 1 lamp, 1 metal Bkcase. Cheap! 8995. 
Refrigerator for sale: good cond. 6 cu.ft. $8 or best offer, call Mac 1204. 
Green drapes with matching sheers $8; brown, gold, & orange curtains --$8; flowered bedspreads--54 each . Call 8124. 
H-K A-401 Integrated Stereo Amp, 20wattslfchanneL 3 mos. old S150. Queen sized inflate-a-bed, never used $35. Free puppy to good home. Call Mark 287-3937 after 3:30p.m. 
3 drawer dresser, excellent. cond. 
Bought at Stepan, 1 yr. old--$15. 
Call Joe at 272-0510 will deliver. 
For Sale: bookcase, TV cabinet1/a 8 track recorder, chest of drawersl!a Pre-med books, rug, fan ph. 8288. 
B&W PORTABLE TV, PERFECT. 6654 (8-4) 
Couch for sale--graduating senior excellent cond--Pretty· Cheap too! Chris 6845. 
Quadraflex 868 Receiver-less tahn 1 year old--$250-Charlie 1165-727 Flanner. 
For Sale: upright piano; $75 or best offer. Call Chester 288-4217. 
For Sale: rug 8' x 11 1-2', multicol­ored, $10. Early Amer. swivel rocker $5, rug (rust) 4' x 12' ($4), stand. bookshelf 2' x 4' !5. Hotplate $2. 283-6851. 
For Sale: Wilson T-3000 tennis racket. One summer old. Medium weight, leather grip. Given new one, so would like to sell. 283-1949. 
Bar for sale, excellent condition, cheap!! 1206. 
For Sale: TV, rug, new stereo, 10-apeed, and assorted room furnis­hings. Very cheap. Must sell now. Call Erbie 6581. 
THE 5-speed S20; a bike S10. 8863. 
Business faculty selected to attend seminars 
modern society. The seminar is 6-23. He will direct a pilot project on law-focused education in the
sponsored by Catholic University of America, the Graduate School of College of Business Administration Business, Columbia University and during the coming academic year General Electric Corporation and under a grant from the Law and will be held in Washington, D.C., American Society Foundation and June 6-June 17. the Lilly Foundation. 
-Dr. William Eagan, professor of Dr. Howard P. Lanser, associate management, has been selected to professor of finance and business participate in the 11th Annual economics, has been selected in Institute sponsored by the Law in tow different national competitions 
American Society Foundation and for participation in seminars in 
the National Center for Law fo­advanced management and inter­
cused Education in 
national studies. Lanser is one of 
1 Stereo . Garrard, Jensen, Harman­Kardon. 283-7912. 
9SR turntable with Pickering 400E. 
Great condition. Phone 1185. 

Beige shag carpet, 12' by 16', for 
$25. Call 1051. Living Room Chairs, Sofa--$5 each, and Spool Table--$5; L..amps--$2.50 each. Call 233-0137. 
CARPET: Gold, Indoor-Outdoor, 

12'x15'; Like New--Call Ed 1189. 
Refrigerator--3.2 cu.ft. very good condition, $35. Call Steve 1749. 
Selling 3 drawer dresser. Newly Painted--28in. high $5. Also all metal shelving. Adjusts from 20in. to 52in. high. 5 Shelves are 36in. x12in. $5, Call John 1145. 
Green Stuffed Chair--$3, Call Sue 3397. 
For Sale: '63 Rambler Classic 770 withnew starter, brakes, exhaust system; asking $175.00 at 233-0137. 


35 faculty selected by the Graduage Washington, D.C.,-May 17-21. School of Industrial Administra­Dr. Herbert Sim, chairman of the tion, Carnegie-Mellon University, Department of Finace and Business Pittsburgh, to participate in the Economics, was one of 12 profes­summer Institute in Advanced sors from schools of business who Management Studies, June 13-25. participated in the recent annual Lanser was also selected by the conference with a select number of American Assembly of Collegiate corporate executives in the Exxon Schools of Business to be on of 30 USA Faculty Forum, Dallas, Texas. business faculty to participate in a The conference explored topics on seminar on international business energy, environment and business, at George Washington University society and human resources. 
~~ 
Career oppty with major finance planning company attractively based Mid-NYC. Offers intensified training in sales leading to sales management. No prior experience necessary. We will train you. Offers salary plus incen­tives and fine company benefits for personal ~ interview, send resume in confidence to: 

Circl~5 ft~~n~~!:~v~;:.vices i 
§ New York, N.Y. 10017 § 
~Q>~~~._q-.~ 


$150 good fast dirt bike. 8863. 

Music books and sheet music. All • kinds Call t;>ave 8406. 
-----,---------­
Skis-Rossignol GT Used. Call Dave 8406. 
ENOUGH STAINED LUMBER TO BUILD 3 LOFT BEDS, including 4x4's, 4x6's, 2x4's and Plywood Sheets. Will sell at 60percent of cost. Call John at 3579. 
Small Refrigerator For Sale--almost perfect condition. Call 6869 or come by 723 Grace in evenings. 
Brown & Tan Shag Rug in GREAT SHAPE--$14; comfortable Brown Stuffed Chair--$4; Coffee Table--$2; Snow Tires--best offer. Call 8126. 
.r---------------------~------~~~~~-~---,
II I 

Announcing:
I I I 

Presenting : 
II 

When:
I I 
Where: 100 CENTER GALLERIA, next to the

.I I
Black Cow in the Brewery.

II I 
jl Lou Whittaker, Jan Sport's Promotion Director, is often I called "Ranier Lou"-and with good reason. This climber 
II I
has scaled the 14,000 ft. Mt. Ranier more than one
II 

hundred times. I 
ll I
--==-------His recen_t achievements include being a co-leader ofI ~ (' r--::.__ the Amencan K-2 expedition. He will present a slide I 
II 

'I .. 
11 •. 
!I ~ :.
j;l 
/. ,;_ 
~ 
.

I ,_....·_, 
.~-~-~, 
I I ·.;~ 
I I I I I I I I I I I 

I I 
THE MOST EXCITING MOUNTAINEER I AND BACKPACKER IN THE U.S. I 
LOU WHITTAKER I
I 
MAY 2, 2:00 PM I I 
lecture that will cover all aspects of the K-2 climb. I 
I
In our opinion, Lou Whittaker will be the first world ~amous c_limber of hi~ type ever to give such a presentation I m the m1dwest. He 1s an extremely humorous individual I who will make you feel like you were involved. If you 
I 
have any interest in outdoor recreation, be sure and come. 

I
This event is free and co-sponsored with Jan-Sport. 

I I I I I I I I I I I I
100CeiJter, 


I I 


-~-------------------------------------~ 
-•'• 


WANTED Exciting opportunity tor men & women to earn high income. Will  6 Bedroom house with fireplace tor rent for next school year. Also a nice 4 bedroom house, 233-2613, 232­7263.  Classified Ads Reasonable raters, next day deliver­ All those interested in part or full time summer work for Don Riegle's Michigan Senate campaign. Please contact Vinnie at 8407.  Spider Korth, "Oui" wish you happy B-day 3,. days early! the Bitch and the Boodz  
train. Call 277-2062. Need ride to West Louisiana. After May B. Call 8520.  Available immediately for married faculty, graduate or law couple. 2 Bedroom apt. in EXCELLENT con­ y, send it now -pay later. Call 8995, for into. The great state of New York wili  mick Convention platform final draft -now available to all delegates. See Student Government Secretary, 2nd floor LaFortune...  Hugh, Good luck on finals  Love Jan  
Summer roommate needed. 3 bed­room, completely turn ished house. Call Terri,287-6638. WANTED: NO students wanted tor full time jobs, may 5-May 16. We need 6. Hours :8 :00-6:30, Mon-Fri. Report to personnel. GIRLS-good high sallary, weekend, fulltime or summer jobs at Dick Drost's beautiful Naked City. Rose Lawn Indiana 46372 (219 )987-2000 Wanted: Ride to Toledo this week­end. Call Peggy, 6661. Babysitter wan ted for summer to care for 3 boys, age 7 to 9. Good pay and close to N D. Hours: 7am-4pm, Mon-Fri. If interested, call Kevin at 8593. FOR SALE Refrigerator for sale. $60. Call mark at 1474.  dition -just COMPLETELY remo­delled. Stove & refrig. provided. 5 closets $16.00 per month. IN CLUDES utilities, 287-7617. House for rent-4 bed, 2 bath, 912 howard St. $250 per month. Utilities included. Ph 287-3874. 2 houses for rent for summer $150 mo. Call Mrs. Cooper, 272-3004. 2 7 bedroom houses for 3 month summer rentals. All furnished. Call 288 6259 after 6 pm. STUDENT Housing: Off campus close to NO. House at 1225 E. Campeau St. 5 Bedrooms, living room, kitchen, bath, fully furnished, washer & dryer, trash removal, security. Call after 4 pm, Phone 232-7180. Winter or Summer stu-. dents. Such a Deal!! 2-bedroom house near campus available summer and-or fall. Reasonable. 234-6519. House for rent next year. very close  hold a BEER BASH in honor of our fearles leader, Daniel Patrick Moy. nihan, Tuesday, May 4, 1976, 8 pm. 54631 lrishway l/801. All NY dele­gales from the Mock Convention are cordially invited. Please bring one US dollar. DISCOUNT QUALITY QUILTS. All colors and designs, ideal tor gifts and-or sun-tanning. 149 Zahm, call 8895. NY MET club baggage truck to Lond Island -Loading May 8,9,10. Send $5.00 deposit to Doug Schumacher, 1315 Elwood Ave, So. Bend, 46628, Info, 288-0498. Need ride to sunny San Diego May 10. Call Tom at 8526 or 7471. Will share expenses. Boston Baggage Truck: Pick up time, 1 5 al Both St. Mary's Parking lot and the Bookstore lot on Mon­day, May 10. For more info call 8645. will do typing, experienced. Term  Johann, You'll be with me next year even tho' we' II be apart. d Karen To all our giris, staff and faithful customers, It's been a long 4 years but no one can ever say it hasn't been fun. Thank you tor "sticking with us" and for all "the good times" (that's for you Stephanie.) We have been able to grow both literally and fiquratively. Special thanks to Shelly our wizard of a financial manager. In what ever you do, always remember, "We aim to please." If you ever get into any legal troubles, just call on the Madame. Love and sincere thanks Madame Fifi To all registere voters in the First District, South Bend: I am running for state delegate to the Indiana Democratic Convention. i would appreciate your support on Primary Day, May 4. Thank you. Mary T. Giel.  Kim, If you could only dance as well as you drink Brian ND-SMC Council for the Retarded Banquet Fri, 6:30-9:30. We need help. Tom Harbin, 287 6673, Kathy McGlynn, 288-4315. K. of c. spring picnic this Saturday. Sign-up lists and further details at the council. Need a place to stay in Chicago this June, July & August. Any imforma­tion will help. Call Gregg at 1615. Goodby, NO Friends; my new address: Jerry Florent Warwick 38 Apts. 3744 Warwick Blvd, Apt 5 Kansas City, Mo, 64115 Is your club interested in a conces­sion stand during next fall's football season? Call Student Activities. 7308, Now.  
UMOC T shirts tor sale. Call Tim, 3305, 241 Keenan. For Sale: Techn1cs 1500 Direct drive turntabl'e. Brand new with brand new Pickering Cartridge. Must sell at $150. Bob, 1400 Furniture For Sale! 1 Furnished apt. at Turtle Creek. must sell furniture. You can store it at fieldhouse till next year. Call 277-0103. '74 Toyota Corolla 4 door, radio, other options, low mileage. Best offer, 288-0753. Cheap transportation home. 1970 Chevy Caprice Wagon. $230. Rick, 2~4-1431.­- to campus, low rent, and great landlords. 4 bedrooms. Houses also available for rent this summer. Call Marty, at 287 5113. Homes completely furnished ran­ging from 2 to 7 bedrooms. Call Mrs. Humborgar, 234-9364. For rent: 2 rooms, $40 a month, 2331329. Milliken Rentals, 282-2089, 233­5833. House & apartments, availa­ble for June or Sept. House for summer rent. Excellent condition. call 1292. 3 bedroom furnished apartment, 1;_. a· duplex," deposit, lease, tor tall  papers, etc. Call 233-8512. LOST & FOUND Lost: A Longines Jubilee watch with leather band, regarded as a keep­sake, has engraved on the back, "to John, from Aunt Helen, June 1974" Call 1612, 138 Dillon. Reward offered. Found: Ring, watch, Jacket at Irish wake. Call 272-6930. Lost: Key ring on Tuesday. Reward. Cal Mary, 4537 or 1715. Lost: Silver timex watch. Saturday between Stepan and Lewis. If found, call Marianne, 8060. -. . -· --------------­ 5th year student looking tor house and Housemates O.C. in tall. Charlie,8698 Attention All!! Beware of the return of WILD BUNCH IV next year feaur­ing Buddman, Peo, Drew & GB!! Sheila O'Brien is doing a WON­DERFUL job in GODSPELL!! Cheap truck to Ph illy-we have more experience and cheaper rates than the competition. Watch for our signs or call Bill-289-9106. 'We ain't in it tor the money." There once was a Notre Dame Stud, who decided not to be a Dud,  STUDENTS: Help us help others. Don't discard any usable clothing. Before leaving campus give us your unwanted clothing. Deposit clothes in barrels at your dorm loading area, Satur­day, May 8th to Wednesday, May 12. The St. Vincent de Paul Society Red Bud Music Festival: Sat-max 8th, 10 hrs of bluegrass, R& B, and Soft Rock. 8 bands from Chicago, Kalamazoo. E. Lansing, So. Bend. Concessions and beer with IDs. RBF on 200 acres, 2 mi. N. of Buchanan, Mich, on R. B. Trail. Tickets: $3.50 Advance, $4.00 Date. Available thru: Boogie Records, Record Joint, Begetable Buddies, Suspended Chord.  
Mexican Shirts-guys and girls. Call Pat, 3444, SMC Debbie, 4284. 1971 VW Bus, White over green. 64,000 mi. Just tuned with new muffler. 24 highway mpg. One owner, 287 7617. 1966 MGB GT tan, 4 speed, radio, wire wheels with knock-off. Good condition, rare, collectors item. $1200 or best offer. For sale: Brown and gold shag. Perfectly cut for Regina single. Also good for any other small room. CAll 4-4226. For sale; Two matching bedspreads blue, green, yellow and white striped muslin. Machine washable. Excellent condition. Call Mo. or Jean, 4-5486. For Sale: Fiat 128 4 door '73, as new. Call Fernando, after 6 pm, 277-0188.  term. Call 255-3205. For summer rental. Super 4 bed­room fully furnished house near Jeff-Eddy. Washer, dryer, all utili­ties. $175. 234 1972. Near campus. 1 large apt. 2 or 3 turn utilities. Two kitchenettes 1 person, turn. utilities. Summer only, mor­nings or evenings. 272 6174. Furnished house near Campus for 3-4 available for summer and fall, 272-6174. Apt. Call morning,s or evenings. NOTICES BIKE-A-THON for the Retarded has been re-scheduled for this Sunday, may 2 at 1 :00. Please help out if you can. Linda's letters, dissertations spec­ialists, typing at student rates. 289-5193.  Lost: Gold watch between Grotto and Grace Hall or student parking lot. Call Ann, 4-4343. Lost: Gold Initial ring, GVO and key chain: red keg, room 223, Greg, 8833. Lost: Wire rim glasses at An Tostal field on Saturday. Please, call 4886. Lost: Pair of wire rin• glasses Sat. on An Tostal Field. Call 5718. Lost: at SMC-ND dance at Indiana club lasst Friday one blue sports coat and car keys. You have mine a I have yours. Call Bill, 289-9106. PERSONALS HAPPY BIRTHDAY, Barbara Ann Mello, St. Mary's valedictorian. Felizidades Jaime,M.J., Jack have a nice birthday! w here's Blair? (His first name is  He asked a beautiful ga, To the Senior Calss Form-al, So he wouldn't be a stick in the mud. This is a personal for Sue from Andy but put in by Gregg because Andy forgot to get in touch with him. Have a nice summer Susie!! Notre Dame & Firends: Thanks for everything, Farewell. John (Art)B. Prior to the September of 1975, I had always believed that Mississippi had a monopoly on racism. My first year at Notre Dame, however, proved to me how naive i was. V.J. Gilbert Observer Staff: Congratulations, Best wishes, and good luck to those of you who are graduating in May. To all others, I'm looking forward to working with and for you in the tall. And a special thanks to Tom M., Terry K., AI R., and Tom W. You've been a real  Attention, Men of Notre Dame (wherever you are)! CR, specially imported from Louisville, will be available in South Bend for only 3 more weeks! Absolutely no offers accepted after May 12th. Hi Marie from Gregg. have Swell summer, sweetie!! M.A. LYON, . You are beautifuI!! Remind me to tell you something on BourbOn street. Until tonight.•. Love, C.H.S. LION Observer Peoples, . I'm gonna miss it, and all of you more than you'll ever realize. For everything, Thanks. A I ways, Preppy Class of '78, Thanks for your support. Mogab, Caserio, Morris and Crook  
Dual 1229Q changer $180, Call Len, 289-8990. Less than 1 yr. old excellent condition. For sale: Girls 24 inch bike -2 speeds. stop and go. Best offer. Call Mary, 4537 or 1715. Black and white TV. one year old $75 or best offer. Call 4-4895. Cheap:Biue shag carpet, easy chair, chest of drawers. Call Joe, 3689, keep trying. For Sale: Smith Corona Electric typewriter. Auto return, excellent condition. 1-and-a-half years old. 5 yr. guarantee. Call 284-4744.  STEREO COMPONENTS -20-40 percent discount. All quality name­brands. RMS Audio, 321 S. Main, 288-1681, M-F, 12:00-6:00. Accurate, fast typing. Hours, 8 am to 8 pm. Mrs. Donoho. 232-0746. RUGBY SHIRTS -identical to the ones the cheerleaders have for $13.00. ideal for gifts. also, football T-shirts in navy or yellow for SJ.SO. Call david Bossy, 277-0948. Wahsington, DC, Club baggage truck to Bethesda, Maryland deposit required before May 5 -call Rob, 233-1797. (3 :00 pm-6 :00 pm.) or Monica 287-8506 (6 :00 pm-9 :00 pm).  Matthew.) Humphrey, Thanks tor the great times. Hope next year will be full of the same. K. Lee P.S. I'll miss the monkey this summer. Bye to the "painters" of art to "kids" of Buret. Need riders to Boston for summer vacation. Call Bob, 1941. Dear 'Derique. Improve your •mery and don't forget me!! Have fun in Idaho. -Tico  family to me. Love,"Mom" The entire SMC-ND Community join together in wishing Mr. Terry Madden a happy birthday. Happy Birthday Bit Ter!! Happy Birthday Dady(17 ?), from your loving family of 3rd floor W a Ish & Alumni. B.A. B.--­At least Chicago isn't as tar away as NY. Keep those cards & letter comin'. G.B. B. Happy 21st Gauthier!! 2nd floor McCandless  Watch out second-floor Walsh -the fearsome foursome is coming!! Dear Dakota Kid -Cowt¥>y of my dreams, Remember me as you ride off into the sunset. L.Dve, M. Dear Telephone, Thanks for a great year. We luv you even though you want to HURT us. Yours forever, The Quad Observer typists: Many thanks to all of you for your help throughout the year. You're all  
FOR RENT House for summer, rated superior,  ND-SMC Council tor the Retarded:  George-Do we have Kelly-age!?  Dear Arkies,  great. Special thanks to Karen Chaimes and •Bullet' Bob Steinmetz  
furnished, w & D, very cheap. Call 1760. --------------­Summer sublet, 1 bedroom unfur­nished apt. Rent negotiable. 288 9646. --------------­6 bedroom & 3 bedroom furnished houses. Contact Mr. Gatto. 234­ The Awards Banquet has been changed to Fri. April 30, 6:30-9:30. All volunteers working at Logan Center this year are invited. Remin­der: No Sat. Rec. this week. Any questions, call Sue Maude, 277-1182 or Jim Scott, 1745. United Air Lines Air Freight Service  BEEBER: The year has been great. Al­though I'll see you in September, remember: This is only the Begin­ning!!! Love, Vege -Miami, here we come!!  Thanks for a great year (the Kubiak's curse, Fat Shirley's, the Torch, assorted injuries, 17 crayola crayons, closet drinking, post-foot­ball parties... ) NO won't be the same without you. Teach Rome how to really boogie.d Much love, JJ&N  for effort above and beyond the call of duty. Your beloved Sports Editor Dearest Deb, Deb, and Ruth, All that's left of the year .-e "Memories", my darlings. Take care and remember, Hans loves you.  
will fly your belongings home  no  

' matter where in the world home is.
·~6=6:8:8~-------------------------~--~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--------------------------------------------------------------~--------------------------............. 
1 

20 The Observer Friday, April 30, 1976 
Business grads offered mostjobs
\ \ 

by Marianne Schulte Senior StaH Reporter 
Employment prospects for this year's graduates may be on the slow road to recovery; but the outlook is still poorer than last season, considered by most as a bad year. 
This is the bleak forecast of the College Placement Council as sta­ted in its March 1976 bulletin, based on the results of a salary survey conducted in 1975-76, of beginning offers made to college graduates with bachelor, master­and doctorate degrees. 
A similar situation of more students trying to secure a fewer number of salaried positions is reflected in the 6,023 interviews conducted by employers through the Notre Dame Placement Office this year. Seven hundred ninety­seven students registered with the Placement Bureau this year, com­pared with thew 725 which employ­ed the services of the bureau h 
White Sox trip needs drivers 
\ \ The foster grand children pro­gram is sponsoring a White Sox game this Saturday for senior citizens in nursing homes. Three or four cars arc still needed, however, to provide transportation for the elderly to White Sox Park. Volunteers should contact Dave Walters at 289-8837. The foster grand children pro­gram is also sponsoring a square dance behind the bookstore from 9 
p.m. to 1 a.m. to finan-:-c the venture. There will be n') admis­sion charge, but donatio 1s will be accepted. 
r 
1975. The number of employers conducting interiviews through the bureau, however, has declined from 390 in 1975 to 308 in 1976. 
An increase of 346 in the total t •• ~ :-nbttr of interviews held at Notre Dame indicates that fearful dilem­ma for the graduation-bound stu­dent is at hand: more candidates are competing for a fewer number of jobs than before, and employers can be more discriminating in the jobseekers credentials with the expanded field of applicants avail­able. 
In the Notre Dame c<. mmunity, the College of Business 1': 1s again experienced the greatest nr mber of job offers which have beeJ· repor­ted by the employers and s~udents to the bureau. followed by the College of Engineering, Science, and Arts and Letters, respectively. 
In the Business College, the greatest number of offers have been made to accounting majors, and of the largest salaries, exclud­ing those made to MEA students. One hundred 'ie'-·enteen offers were made to males for an average annual salary of $13,236 and to twenty-three females for an aver­age salary of $13,488. 
In the College of Engineering, twenty-five prospective mechanical engineers were quoted salaries of $14,436, followed closely by twen­ty-two offers made to male majors in electrical engineering for $14,196. Four bids to males in the same concentration went for an average of $13,848. 
Metallurgical engineering pre­sented itself as a more lucrative profession for a female, as four positions extended to females for $15,156 were more impressive than the one bid made to a male for 
"14,976. 

The high number of position 
'ered to ND students in business 
and engineering parallels natid'nal 
averages, where engineering and 
business disciplines still account 
for 89 percent of all offers reported. The greatest discrepancy in salary between reported male and feamle job quotes Jay in the College of Arts and Letters. For a position in social science, a male was extended a bid of $8,928 average annual salary, while a woman in the same discipline was quoted a surprising $13,008. The few offers made to Arts and Letters majors -reflected the national decrease of 
jobs available in the humanities 
and social sciences. 

The Sciences represented ano­
ther area where only scant offers 
were ventured by employers to 
Notre Dame students. Only two 
offers were made to biology ma­
jors, both to women, for $13,716 or 
an average monthly salary of 
$1143. 

Although a total of 247 job offers 
were made to the 797 stduents 
registered with the placement 
bureau, this does not mean that 
these were the only offers extended 
to the students as a result of the six 
thousand plus interviews conduc­
ted on the campus this year. This 
figure is representative only of the 
number of offers that were actually 
reported to the placement bureau 
after the proposal to the inter­
viewees. 

To obtain greater accuracy in 
determining the number of total job 
offers, a questionnaire is issued at 
the close of the semester to all 
firms and interviewees who em­
ployed the sources of the place­
ment bureau throughout the course 
of the last year. 

St. Mary's College has experien­
ced the same general trends in the 
job market as Notre Dame, 
although on a much smaller scale. 
The 216 students who registered 
MORE MOREMOREMORE Classified Ads 
Mary Beth, 

Let's hope your blue shoes don't end up under the bed of a Spanish lover. They won't walk home!! 
Your American Amingas 
The ND-SMC Scuba Club makes its 
\ . 
diving debut this summer in the Great State of North Dakota. 

Julie, Marybeth, and Francine, 
Adios amingas! Watch out for those Spanish MEN. They're PE QUENO but BUENO! 
SM, MR, Ml, DB, RR, DV, SB, CD, MD 
MOGAB, CASERIO, MORRIS, & CROOK, We're so sick of seeing this... 
looking forward to next year, Con gratulations! 399 & 284. 
F;g, Leave my sister Julie Maria alone and give your roommmate some rest. 
West Side Rate
I . 

Miz Basara, Miz Basara, 
No vacancies in the chicken coop next door. EGGM EN are all over the place. You better scrub and work all day during the summer so you'll
'. • ~ I 
have your nights free to SCRAM­BLE up some EGGS! Remember 
(, 
\. 
Ron was asking about you. 
~ . 

Squirrel, Can't wait to the tall so we can help you gather your nuts. 
Love, Bev and the Wax 
General, Torpedos away you submarine 
sinker. See you in Guam. fr Lilian M. 
'i 
. I .: 

NEWS FLASH, Margie lrr finished lhe first paragraph of her Congress paper. 
EXTRA,EXTRA!Bionic Bic is on the
' 
I ' 
( . 
blink. CIA has narrowed down the 
.) 
suspects to one after several weigh­ing ins. Person responsible now 
-~ 
\ 
I 
being sought after. 
' ' 
West Frosh, Here are your personals and come visit me next year in the ghetto. 
Jimmy Olson 
FOOF'S FUNHOUSE on Indiana Avenue, lndi<~napolis to reopen i May, featuring MADAME FOOF herself. Tru it, you'll like it. They don't call it the PLAYGROUND OF THE MIDWEST tor nothing. 
Ch itella, Please take those palmetto bugs bi'IC.k down South with ~~ou. 
Mr. Huber, Congrats on tinis',ing your college 
education.  Thank~  for the  year  at  
ND.  
Love,  

Mrs. HuberKerry, 
Hope the interview went well. If you really want to succeed, come to the Quad for some advie. 
Foot and the Girls 
Dear Betho, We will miss you next year, especially in the evenings when we hear the crickets. Love, 'Your Children 
1973 Fiat 124 Spyder Convertible, excellent ··condition, only 15,000 miles, 5-speed transmission AM FM, $2800.00 234 55002 
TIGGGGER, 

from indigenous indians to what­ever with love; have a busy and enjoyable summer and take it easy. 
love, roo 
To Mike, (There, that wasn't so bad, was it?) 
Dick and Jeff, Have run in Rome and send lots of postcards. polly and hun 
Pelvis: 

They shoot horses don't they? Happy Birthday and remember the big "7". 
:annex To the following Departments: Sec­urity, Vending Cashier, Accounting, Campus Ministry, N.D. MAGAZINE, and the OBSERVER; Thanks for storing, counting trans­fering, and publicizing the money. To the South Dining Hall Manage­ment; Thanks for letting me work. To the students; thanks for giving the money. To the NDW HC; Thanks for givingg yourself to an ideal. To Greg; Thanks for your selfless efforts at SMC. And to Father 
Lost:  Wallet  in  vicinity of  Nickies  
Beer  Parlor.  Call  Tom  O'Connor,  
289-8102.  

Griffin; Thanks forgiving yourself to 
me. 

AI Sondej 
Well, the Ad Dept. up here at the Observer made it through another season. It wouldn't have been possible without Anne Peeler, Pat Russell, Joe Graif, Ed Pawlowski, Mitch Stoltz, Paul Timmons, Tom Walrath, Sally Dentz, Mary Ann, Karen, Hank, Marie and probably a few others. To my successor, Mike Miller, "Do a job, big guy!!" · Thanks kids, it was real. 
with the SMC Placement Bureau represent an increase of 46 stu­dents over the previous year's 170 who used the bureau's services. 
While business majors are most easily placed and accounting concentrations are in highest de­mand in that college, Social Service was the area cited by Karen 
O'Neill, Director of Placement,  as  
being in least demand.  
''Although  business  majors  ar  

being approached with the greatest number of job offers by employers, the Arts and Letters people will get theirs this summer." 0'Neill affir­med. "There are more students going back for second interviews in a shorter length of time than there were in previous years." 
Education majors have a very good job replacement record, ac­cording to O'Neill. Data from a questionnaire issued by the place­ment bureau to 1975 education graduates revealed that less than six percent of those who answered 
Bike-a-than slated to help retarded 
Due to inclement weather, the 1976 "Ride-A-Bike for the Retar­ded'' has been postponed until Sun., May 2. The 25-mile bike ride will begin at 1 p.m. at Logan Center, 1235 North Eddy Street. 
The 25-yard "Ride-a-Trike" for children under six years of age, will ~egin at 1:30 p.m. 
For further details ·about the ride, call Logan Center. 
were unemployed. 

O'Neill feels that the Career Development program has played a significant role in making women more aware of job opportunities on the market, and instilling in them greater self-confidence and aware­ness of skills developed. 
"But women still have a long way to go," O'Neill concluded. "This year women will be only eighteen percent of available jobs on the market.'' 

SEASON'S TOP COMEDY! HILARIOUS FUN'! 

DUE TO EARLY STARTING DATE oF FALL-'7 6 FOOTtfA[L SEASON.--~ 
IF YOUR CLUB WISHES A 
---------------------· 

CONCESSION STAND DURING THE FALL, CALL NOW: STUDENT ACTIVITIES -7308 

ATTENTION! ALL SOPHOMORES 
PLACE YOUR RING ORDER BEFORE YOU LEAVE FOR SUMMER VACATION· THI3 WILL ASSURE YOU OF HAVING IT WHEN YOU RETURN TO SCHOOL 
IN THE FALL· 
9:00 A.M. TO 4:30 P.M. MON. -·FRI.

HOURS: 
IN THE OFFICE ON THE FIRST FLOOR 

HAMMES NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
~·,);1--.,-.
. .. ,.
_.u ....... '~ ~ .. -. -~~ .. -~-...; ;) 
of it with us 
by mary janca 
will soon resemble The Observer's logo of the arrows in the masthead. 
Further stabilization would be eased if the students took an active role in policy formation before its enactment, complain about school rules in the dining halls over dinner after the decision has been made and put into effect. Student government has been considered by many to be ineffectual. Could this be because there are relatively few students involved in it? The traditional uncontested SBP-SBVP election serves as an overused example of student apathy. Yet, the student body must be commended--voter turnout rose this year by 2o/o of the total enrollement, from six to eight percent. Hope springs eternal. 
But, then in writing this column, I didn't want to become political in my comments. I'd done that for the past two years, and wanted to avoid that for once. And so. as I sat at the typewriter and thought of what I could write about, now that I knew what I didn't want to write. But little else besides reflections on the past four years came to my mind. Surprise birthday parties. all-nighters, both while working up here at this newspaper and while 
studying. concerts, dances, dining hall discus­
sions, never-ending labs, full days of classes .. 
It's impossible to avoid not doing it.. .. And, 
unfortunately. I realized that I, too, had fallen 
into the trap. Whatever would be said, would 
sound like a traditional graduating-senior 
column ... condemned already into the mode of 
conformity that I wanted desperately to avoid. 
Perhaps there's a whole set of characteris­tics common to most graduation seniors, mush like symptoms of disease, that make him (or her) easily detectable, among them the incessent question between two or more of them, "What are you doing next year?" finding six extra tickects for graduation tor Uncle Fred and Aunt Tillie and their kids, who decided that they just had to come down to see the ceremony, and writing farewell columns where the writer starts to reminisce and bore his or her readers. 
Graduation is a rather awesome event. It thrusts you mto new stiuations, out of the somewhat secure and familiar. And, as it approaches, it makes you realize that time has run out for you to do "all those things" that you kept putting off doing. But. most of all, I guess that it's a time for reflection for appreciating. perhaps for the first time, the friendships that have been developed during the past four years. and for anticipating whatever comes along afterwards. So, to all graduating seniors, Congratulations • and Good Luck! 
A new activism 
f()Jiowing pcopl1 · have contributed to this 
Angie Grace Tom Black Elton Johnson Matt Cockrell Diana Merten Melanie Connell · 
Bob Quakenbush Tom Fitzgerald . Kathy Smouse . } 
The students who have contributed to and signed this column are all graduating seniors and have worked in various areas and levels of student government for the past several years. We would like to depart Notre Dame with this final letter expressing not only our thanks to 'the university and its people, but also our hopes for student government. 
Despite momentary periods of discourage­ment, we have discovered that student government work is enjoyable. There is a challenge in seeing a problem, workin~ ou~ a solution, and then sitting back watchmg tts fulfillment. It becomes a learning experience. Student develop the capacity to contribute their own ideas and share in the ideas of others. 
Our hope is that all the people at Notre Dame will get involved to solve problems. Most students identify student government with the student body president or student union director. Although these are important jobs, they are only a small part in the huge network of organizations that make up student government. Section leaders. hall judicial boards, the Hall President's Council, St,udent Union, The Ombudsman Service, the Student Life Council, and assorted special ad hoc committees are as much a part of student government as Mike Gassman an.d his cabinet. All these groups need a contmuous flow of fresh ideas. The problem is that the average student feels incapable of effecting real change at Notre Dame. 
The solution is a new activism. Students can bring about changes. We saw this happen when students organized to protest next year's calendar. This demonstrated to the administration and faculty that students do get involved when they feel their rights threatened. We proved we can bring about change with solid, well-researced proposals backed up by widespread student support. 
This is only one, but very vocal, example. Most of the progress at Notre Dame is the result of efforts by small, nameless groups of individuals who care enough to devote their time and energy. Ifinformed students work to formulate proposals and present realistic and viable solutions. the adminisration is usually willing to listen. It is here that student government needs your help. 
A small elite running student gove ·nment i:> not as effective as an open group which includes individuals of diverse i "~rest and talents. An elite clique would harm the whole campus for two reasons. First. it would imply to the adminstration an apathetic student body. Second, it would make student 
government a farce; no genuinely constructive action could be taken. To prevent this situation, we need your involvement. We challenge you to complain --not to you roomate, but to your elected representatives. Don't just gripe, offer to help them solve that problem. 
Student government must also do its part in this process by allowing any interested students to actively participate. It is up to our elected leaders to encourage general student involvement and to offer its support and resources. 
The only way to achieve results is to allow students and their organizations the flexibility to develop their original ideas and develop then without unnecessary interference. If all student government ideas were to be pr~c:s­sed through one single channel, creatlvtty would suffer. Not only would the individual or group at the top be unable to constantly think up new ideas and approaches, but also students at the bottom of the chain would .lose their desire to contribue. People must feel that their decisions mean someting. Student government must allow them to do so. 
It is cliche to say that most of our college education comes from outside the classroom. We gain new perspectives on life by meeting others. We also learn by making decisions and accepting the responsibility for them. Even if our ideas fail, we still gain --hoping to do better next time. Student government must allow students to make independent deci­sions. The end product is better student 
leadership for all. 
These, then are the twin challenges we make to the student body and the present student leaders. To the student body, we challenge you to get involved in student government at '·any level. To the student leaders, we chaJienge you to build a better government by respecting the comments, criticisms, and decisions of your members and aU the students. 
Finally, we wish to thank all the people at Notre Dame with whom we have worked for allowing us the opportunity to grow and learn. 


·Friday, April 30, 1976
The Observer
6
m,j \ 
~ 
,,~ 
'1 
Humphrey reiterates: he is not a candidate
l \ 
WASHINGTON AP-With tears was his party's presidential nomi­together. state chairman for New Jersey, part and achallengerwithout exper­
: ) I ,.( ,•, ( 
~ '
llj
I \ 
~;
f'; \ 
I 1 , 
l'j,, 
I ,j ~
r:. 
q
r . 
'l
I 
{ 
1~~
\ 
\ (1 
)' 
ll 
l•
t
\ I 
~ 
. 
\ 


'', ( f ., 
. ' 
. I 
< 
)I' 
~~~ 
' ~ 
I ,' 
welling in his eyes, Sen. Hubert H. Humphrey, the "happy warrior" of three unsuccessful presidential campaigns, announced .yesterday he would not jump into the 1976 race. 
"I shall not enter the New Jersey primary nor shall I authorize any committee or committees to solicit funds or work in my behalf," Humphrey told a news conference. "I intend to run for re-election in the United States Senate from the state of Minnesota." 
Humphrey made is announce­ment in a jammed senate caucus room. scene of the Senate Water­gate Committee hearings as well as numerous declarations of candi­dacy for the presidency. 
The Minnesota Democrat, who nee in 1969, and a candidate for the nomination in 1960 and 1972, left open the possibility he would accept the nomination if the con­vention in July s~ould turn to him. 
But he described that possibility as remote. 
"I'm really not very optimistic," he said. "I'm a realist about politics.'' 
Former Georgia Gov. Jimmy 
Carter, whose victory in the Pen­sylvania primary put pressure on Humphrey, said he had "mixed emotions" about the former vice president's decision. 
Cartger told reporters in Albany, Ca., he would rather have met with Humphrey first but said the deci­sion will give him a chance ''to pull the factions of the party back 
Campus Briefs 
In the area of athletics, Pangborn has participated in interhall hockeyEssay contest and basketball and section basket­ball, softball. baseball and soccer.worth $7000 As a community service, the hall The Midwestern Office of the has St. Patrick's parish in South Intercollegiate Studies Institute, Bend as a part~e! parish. The hall Inc .. a non-profit educational or-SJ?Onsors a dtvtston . of ~he St. ganization in Indianapolis, has ymc~nt ~e Paul S?ctety m con­announced "The Adam Smith Bi-JUnctton with the pansh. Pangborn centennial Essay Contest,'' open to res.i~ents teach. in the Sunday high school, college and law school rehg_wus educatton c~asses at St. students with prizes worth $7,000. Patnck's and are workmg to reopen 
First prizes will be awarded in the parish's grade school. the college-level competition and the high school-level competition and wm include an all-expense paid Movie bids filled trip to the August, 1976, meeting of 
All movie bids for next year havethe Mt. Pelerin Society. an organi­been filled. Those organizationszation of international scholars, at 'Yhich have received a movie bidSt. Andrew's University, Scotland, ""_mld have been contacted byplus a $1000 scholarship. 
phone by yesterday.

Contest entry blanks and details are available from the Intercol­legiate Studies Institute, Inc., P.O. Esch wake tonl•te 
Box 88263, Indianapolis, In., 462­
08. The contest deadline is June The wake for Jan Esch. son of 
15. Notre Dame biology professor Har­old Esch, will be held tonight from 
Lobbyl.sts un,·te 
7 to 9 p.m. with a service at 7:30 
p.m. at the Warner Funeral Home, 1109 Lincolnway West in Osceola. All students from Indiana inter-The funeral will be tomorrow at 10 
; ested in working with student a.m. at Sacred Heart Church. lobbyists to lower the state drink­ing age are asked to attend a Underclassmen 
meeting Monday night at 7 p.m. in the LaFortune lobby. vacate May 13 
At the meeting, arrangements . will be discussed to contact Jegisla-The deadline for underclassmen tors over the summer. All ques-t~ be out of the dorms is 24 hours tions may be directed to Jerry after the last final. at the latest Klingcnberger at 1072. Wed., May 13, at noon. Only 
graduating seniors and those stu­dents who have obtained permis-
ND Students Vote sion will be allowed to remain in 
the dorms after this time. No students will be permitted in the 
~II Notre Dame st.udent~ who are dorms after noon on May 17. regtstered to vote m lndtana can vote in the Indiana primary election_ Tues., May 4, from 6 a.m. to6 p.m. Judicial Board on the ground floor of the Adminis­tration Buildin,e:. applications 
Students wishing to serve on the Pay up grads! University Judicial Board can pick up applications in the student 
• A t government office, second floor
The Offitce of Students ccoun s
Jd l'k t · d II M Lafortune, from 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. wou 1 e 0 remm a ay today. For more information graduates that degrees cannot be t t Ph"l M · · · B b B dd 
. con ac 1 ancmt or o u .
awarded to those who have unpatd accounts. No degree or transcript of credits will be issued to anyone 
. whose account is not settled by Senior class trip
graduation. All graduates who are concerned open for 35 mor 
about the status of their accounts · should ~top by the ?ffice of There are approximately 35 pia­Students ~ccounts to revtew them. ces left on the planes for the senior T~e offi~e Is open Monday through cJass trip to the Southern California 
Fnday. from 9 to 11:30 a.m. and football game.. Seniors-to-be who from 1.30 to 4 p.m. wish to go on the trip can bring their $50 deposit to the LaFortunePangborn gets ballroom between noon and 2 p.m. 
today . Today is the last day to sign up
Rockne award 
for the trip in the ballroom, but any 
The Hall Presidents' Council has seniors who wish to go-and have selected Pangborn Hall as the not signed up by 2 p.m. today can recipient of the Rockne Award for see the secretary in the student this month in recognition of the activities office . 
, hall's participation in athletics and No additional planes will be ::ommunity services. arranged for the trip. 
Ca;ter's campaign manager said he will push for an uncommit­Hamilton Jordan said, "I think this ted slate of delegates that he takes us a long way toward winning considers to be a Humphrey slate. the nomination." He said it may be President Ford, campaigning in a "turning point" in the campaign. Texas, said he thinks the only way 
Rep. Morris K. Udall, D-Ariz., Democrats can stop Carter's drive described Humphrey's decision as is in the smoke filled rooms of a "a very big break for me." brokered convention "and I think 
Sen. Frank Church, D-Idaho, the public would object to that." campaigning in Oregon, said the If Carter is the democrtatic decision may help his own efforts. nominees, he said it "Will be a 
Despite Humphrey's announce­contest between a proven contest ment, James P. Dugan, Democratic between a proven record on my 
Collective bargaining interests ND faculty 
An optmon poll conducted last week by the Notre Dame Chapter of the American Association of Uni­versity Professors (AAUP) reveals an increasing interest on the part of the faculty in the possibility of collective bargaining at Notre Da­me. 
Prof. James Robinson, president of the AAUP chapter, yesterday released incomplete tabulations for two of the key items on the questionnaire. 
Question: Do you favor collec­tive bargaining for Notre Dame? 
Opinions: 166 (42 percent) Yes; 170 (43 percent) No; 58 (15 percent) Undecided. 
Robinson noted for a similar question on a February. 1975, Faculty Senate questionnaire, 102 (22 percent) of those responding answered Yes; 139 (30 percent) answered No; while 234 (48 per­cent) were undecided, had no opinion or desired more informa­tion. 
Question: Do you want the AAUP chapter to initiate proce­dures that would allow the Notre Dame faculty to choose or reject collective bargaining? 
Opinions: 208 (53 percent) Yes; 137 (35 percent) No; 47 (12 percent) Undecided. 
There were 701 questionnaires distributed and at the latest incom­plete count, 394 (56 percent) were returned. Statistics are not yet available on other questionnaire items concerning faculty opinions about the possible effect of collec­tive bargaining on the appoint­ments and promotions process, selection of academic officers. the teaching-learning situation. faculty voice in decision-making bodies. grievance procedures and salaries. 
The AAUP chapter will meet Mon .. May 3, at 7:30 p.m. in 122 Hayes-Healy Center to begin dis­cussions of the results of the questionnaire. Robinson said he believes in the Fall semester of 197 6, the chapter will come to some kind of decision about how to proceed with the collective bar­gaining issue. 
ience in the oval office,." 

After Carter's solid victory Tuesday, Humphrey met with sup­porters to discuss formation of an exploratory committee. But ac­cording to Robert Short a Minnea­polis hotelman and top Humphrey 
supporter, the consensus was that it was too late to set up an explorator 
....... 
GOLF aNTII· 
rt 
"NIGHT LIGHTtD" 

g HOLE • PAl 3 GOLP t~ ~ ICIIIISr• 11 Hole Mlnlafut'l Open DOwft n1 10•00 PM LOCATED US 33 AT IRONWOOD 
Call I 388-0033 I 

jill 'If No An1 Call 282-2366 I_ 2?_!5 LINCOLN WAY EAST 50. ~...M 
~,.......c::: 
LLJ NO
I 

~~ODSPELL 
~ 
April 23,24,29,30, May 1 at 8 :oo 
P.M. 
Stepan Center (Notre Dame)
SMC 
$2.50 General Admission 
$2.00 Students, FacuJty & Staff 
For Reservations Call 284-417 6 
THEATRE 
1975-1976 Our 1Oth Joint Season 
(Show Nights Call 283-7559) 
233-6145 
~ 

Sunday is Family Day at The Boar's·Head! 
from Noon till 10:00 p.m. on Sundays 
COMPLETE HAM or CHICKEN DINNER 
$3.95 

COMPLETE CHOPPED SIRLOIN or CHICKEN DINI\IER for KidS(Under 12} 
0'$ #d $1 7 5 (Our regular menu
~"" -• ilt.. • Ia available too!) ilo ~--­C~ BORR~S-HII11D 
f&stauttant 
'i2885 U.S. 31 North South Bend 1 272-54 78 


SPECIAL SPRING SALE 
[K-oci~ 
lnstamatic 50 Outfit 
includes camera, magicube, film, wrist strap, instructions. 
SPECIAL $82.50 LIST $119..95 
AULT CAMERA CO. SOUTH BEND 





Friday, April 30, 197& 
The Observer 7 ... 
Brains strained during sport of picking rooms 
by Barb Langhenry Senior StaH Reporter 
Spring sports are exciting and offer a beneficial ment:.tl release after a winter in hibernation. However, the spring sport that involves the most personal contact also causes the most mental strain. This much talked about sport is room picking. 
The competitor must be aggres­sive and willing to sacrifice friend­ship for his own living comfort. The rules are set down by the individual halls and violation of these rules places the competitor at the bottom of the list. 
Each hall on campus is allowed to choose its own method for handling room picks. The method is either established by tradition or decided upon by the hall council, staff or the entire resident body. Most ofthe halls use the computer list furntshed by Campus Housing to conduct a lottery. 
Halls that don't use this system either run their own lottery. go by GPA or allow a freeedom of movement within sections. How­ard has its own system of points. Every hall on campus gives seniors to be priority proceeding down the list to the present freshmen. 
Grace and Pangborn are the only halls that use GPA's. Each year the Grace residents vote on the method to he used and this year, as in the past. GPA method won. 
Pangborn. however, has the GPA method written into the hall policy. Gerry Parshall. a Pangborn resident who was activelv involved in room picks. stated that it has been done that way for quite a while and most of the students agree that those who do better in school derservc a better pick. 
Cavanaugh and St. Edward's both hold their own Lotteries. Fr. Matthew Miceli, rector of Cava­naugh. explained that a room pick commitlee is chosen by the hall coul~. ai'ld'11Tis committee decides upon the method and runs the system. He said the hall has run its o~vn lotterv for a while and "it is a lot of fun and kind of a social e\·ent. 
St. Ed\\ ard · s student govern­ment decided to run their own lottery. Fr. William Presley. rector. stated that he thought it was the fairest method. 
Fisher. Stanford, and Flanner handle their room picks on a section basis. Fisher's hall council decided that students can freeze theirown room or move within the section. If the residents want to move to another section they go into a hall lottery. Fr. Carl Ebey, rector. stated. "We are fortunate that most of the rooms are singles 
and about the same, therefore the problems are minimal. This year there were only 18 students who went into the lottery." 
::J 
Cl. 
'< 
-<
0 
c 
-+ 
(/1 
.....:> 

~ ROCK'N ROLL 
~ 
Stanford works their room picks the same except that if a person wants to move to another section he must contact the section leader in that section and put in a bid. If there is enough room he can then change. 
Flanner residents can move free­ly within the section and the floor. If they want to move to another floor they go into a hall lottery. Fr. John Mucahy, rector. stated that about 20 students changed floors. The hall council voted for this method. 
Howard has a system unique to its hall. They are on a point system. The original hall residents and transfer students from other schools receive one point for each semester that they have been in school and one point for each semester they have been in the hall. Students who are transfers from other halls receive one point for each year in school and one point for each semester in the hall. The students with an equal number of points are then put into a lottery 
to  determine  their  place  among  
their point group.  
Chris  Brogan,  Howard  presi­ 

dent. stated that the system is voted upon each year by the hall council and the present system was devised last year. Brogan stated that the system discourages trans­fers from other halls. 
Dillon, Fisher. Flanner, Howard, Pangborn and Stanford are the only halls that allow residents to freeze their present rooms. 
Five professors named emeritus 
Five Notre Dame faculty mem­bers, with cumulative service of 162 years, will be promoted to emeritus ranking at the end of the current academic year. it has been reported by Fr. James T. Burt­chaell, provost. They will be honored at the annual President's Dinner. May 18 in the North Dining Hall. 
Dr. George Felix Hennion, Nie­wland professor of chemistry at the University since 1935, leads the list with 41 years of service at Notre Dame. Bro. Columba Curran, 
C. S.C., also a professor of chemis­try is close behind with 39 years of service. 
Others include Mrs. Dorothy Laughlin, who served between 1930 and 1936 and since 1950 as a librarian in Memorial Library and head of the catalog department for 32 years; Dr. William M. Burke, assistant provost and professor of English with 27 years of. service, and Rev. ArthurS. Harvey, C.S.C., administrative assistant to the ex­ecutive vice president and associ­ate professor of speech and drama with 23 years of service. 
IJ')
,..._ 
0 
•
N 
("") 
N 

SLOW DANCE ~ 
c 



GIVE US A TRY WE WILL LIVEN UP 
-./ 'I '-....-. 
YOUR PARTY~ · 
·' '() 

~ BUMP, BOL.-GIE AND SOUL MELLOWJro Lan Zubkof:fSirliiiiiiiiia'iiGreg Rosander5iliiiiiiiif!Pau I Z uIa 
Dillon's hall council voted to 

allow  room  freezes.  Fr.  Daniel  
Jenky,  rector,  stated  that  not  a  
whole  lot  of  studens  froze  their  

rooms this year. Only the Howard residents who have chosen their room can freeze it. Freshmen cannot freeze rooms. Pangborn allows freezes so that those who are satisfied can stay where they are. Fisher, Flanner and Stanford have freezes because of the way that they run room picks. 
Many hall rectors opposed freez­ing rooms because they felt that everyone deserved an equal chance to live in any of the rooms. Both Miceli and Presley stated that the rooms in their halls varied. Someone could freeze a desirable room for three years, not giving any else a chance. They also stated that someone in a poorer room could always get stuck with a poor room. 
Alumni, Badin. Farley, Howard and Lyons are the only halls that don't designate rooms for incoming freshman or proportion them throughout the hall. 
Most of the halls that do propor­tion the pumbers or designate rooms do so to insure an interaction between the freshman and upper­classman. Robin Stemmerman, an RA in Lewis believes, "An upper­classsman can offer a lot to freshmen and can help them with their assimilation into the univer­sity." 
This eventful spring sport is almost over. Many hall residents find it to be a nerve racking experience. Merce Haley, a Lewis resident, stated that a lack of 
communication causes most of the problems. Bob Fontana of Holy Cross had just completed his part in the fun when he stated, "It brings out the worst in people; everyone wants the best." 
St. Vincent DePaul 
STUDENTS 
Help us help others. Don't discard usable clothing. Before leaving campus give us your unwanted clothing. 
deposit clothes in barrels at your dorm loading area Saturday May 8th to Wednesday May 11th. 


• 



.­
• 1 

----~ ­

The Observer Frid<~y, April 30, 1976 
8 
And, in conclusion, we present: 
Our top stories from this year 
Academic Calendar 
1. The Academic Calendar once more became an issue when the Academic Council voted Dec. 3 to return to a pre-labor Day start and week-long midsemester break, while eliminating the Friday after Thanksgiving as a holiday. After a student "laugh-in" protest, a student petition and expres­sions of dissatisfaction from St. Mary's administrators, the Council met again on jan. 20 to reconsider the calendar guidelines. In a dose 23-22 vote the Council decided to reinstate theFriday holiday, provided :students would attend one Saturday class. 

Mock Political Convention 
2 The Notre Dame Mock Political Convention held March 3-6, nominated Sen. Hubert Humphrey as its presiden­tial candidate with Georgia legislator Julian Bond as his running mate. The convention was addressed by a number of prominent public figures, and was spiced by controversy over pro-abortion and pro-busing minority planks. 

Duggan to SMC 
3. Dr. john M. Duggan, former vice president for student affairs at Vassar College, was inaugurated as the eighth president of St. Mary's College at a formal convocation in O'laughlin Audi­torium on Sept. 7. His inauguration marked the end of one-and-a-half-year search for a president, a position left vacant by the resignation of Dr. William Henry in the Spring, 1974 . 
• l ._•••_, ..

I I¢ il. 
~~... 

t '$ 
-·-·*The_.QP_$~rver 
ScrrutdaF dau add«i 
Calendar revision includes Friday holiday 
~~ ~tii ~~J~ ~~il ~l~~; ]~ ~::·;~::.. . ' -!i 


:::~=.::.:::;;-:: ::;::~ !-'.:.":.:-.-Independent grocer =--.:-.:::.~:_: ,. -:!:::'S";.;::-::; plans to replaceA&P 
~~!!~;.~~~~~~ ~~;~
::..~--:"'";.':"__ ~-...:."':= :;,;!""_-.:..;:_-~--·-:.==-.. ­
Not so Devine rumors 
4. On Oct. 20, while the Irish were battling back from a 20-point deficit to a 31-30 victory over Air Force, the nation rocked with rumors that Notre Dame Head Coach Dan Devine would be fired and replaced by Ara Parseghian until Don Schula of the Miami Dolphins took over in the 1976 season. The rumors were denied by Fr. Edmund P. joyce, executive vice-president of Notre Dame and chairman of the faculty board of athletics, who termed them, "vicious and malicious with absolutely no founda­tion." 
Drug bust 
5. Three Notre Dame students were arrested April 2 for possession and delivery of a controlled substance. Two of the students were charged with the sale of amphetamines to police agents, while the third were charged with the sale of marijuana and amphetamines. The Notre Qame community was first made aware of the activities of undercover vice squad agents on March 10. Dean of Students James Roemer, who released the origingal information, suspended the three students despite earlierassertions that he would not 11 do anything to prejudice the students' pending case." 
Collective bargaining? 
6. The Facult)' Senate and a large number of students have protested an administrative decision to eliminate all evening departmentals and hold them during he 8TT10 time period. The decision , announced Apr. 5 will take effect in September and no regular classes will be scheduled for the 8TT10 period. University Provost Fr. James Burtchaell said the change was designed to free student's evenings for other campus events and/or early studying. 

Marchetti confirms CIA spotters 
Colis lor 'tnclet Conduct«< study c-oalro/ on CIA 011 CIA contcch 
~­
--.. .. 

'•" 

Glickstein defends hiring policies :.-·~ 
--·­
.. -­

. :.. ·=.:-:::.:=:",..':'=~"=~ 
... ·------­
·------·-~ .... ·--­
·::-·--···:.:-.::-::-:~~·::·::.: 


~--·--~~~.::-_.~: ~--=::..::::.:. 
..... .,..,.....
~---­
... .._, .... 
::~:.~;~~~ 


CIA on campus 
7. Former Central lntelli2ence Agent Victor Marchetti said in a lecture Oct. 1, that some Notre Dame faculty members acted as CIA contacts on campus as recently as 1967. Marchetti said he conducted a study of CIA contacts at universities in 1967 at the request of then CIA Director Richard Helms, and that Notre Dame was one of approxi­mately 100 universities involved. A spotter is a faculty member who looks for students with potential to become ''clandestine agents," Marchetti said. 
Drinking bill 
no go 
8. A bill to lower the drinking age in Indiana to 19 was killed jan. 19 before reaching a vote in the Indiana House of Representatives. The bill was withdrwn by supporters to prevent certain defeat. The defeat ended a year of intensive lobbying by members of the Notre Dame student body under the leadership of Tom Black and jerry Klingenbergber. loss of support for the bill was blamed on the approaching Indiana primaries and candidates' unwillingness to support controversial issues. 
Affirmative action 
9. Notre Dame's affirmative action program for the recruiting and hiring of women and minorities was formally apporved by the HEW in October, following testimony before a labor Department committee by two members of the University community. Fr. james 
T. Burtchaell, University provost, told the committee on Oct. 1 that affirmative action procedures as applied to higher education were often unreasonable and challenged the wHhholding of federal· contracts to enforce social policy. Howard A. Glickstein, former director of the Notre Dame Center for Civil Rights, had testified in favor of such measures in Aug. 20. Representatives of the University's female and minority elements also disagreed with Burt­chaell's appraisal of the need for affirmative action. 
~­
'* 
.. 
SO plus 12 

10. Over 200 representatives of 62 colleges and universities from across the country met at Notre Dame Nov. 21-23 for the "University 50 Plus 12 Seminar: A New look at the Old Sauce." The representatives spent the weekend dis­cussing the problem of alcoholism and proposing ways of promoting responsi­ble drinking habits at colleges and universities. The primary tangible result of the three-day conference was a catalogue, The College Catalogue on Drinking, to be distributed to universi­ties across the nation. 
And five more 

11. In ND-SMC politics, Gassman-Casey overwhelmed two opposing tickets to win the student body elections Feb. 23, while Bilek-Coyne-Stolz were unopposed in the SMC elections March 29. Both elections were marked by voter apathy, with Mike Gassman and Mike Casey winning 66 percent of the vote·s cast by only 49 percent of the student body; Mary lou Bilek and her running mates, Cathy Coyne and mary Ann Stolz, received a 
59.7 percent "yes" vote on a "yes-no" ballot. Only 10 percent of the St. Mary's student body voted in that election. 
12. 
Difficulties in securing business electives and the cut-throat competition in the accounting department are two of the major problems resulting from overcrowding in the business school, according to business students. A student teacher ratio of28.3to on'e'in the business college compares with rations of 9.1 to one in arts and letters, 6.1 to one in science and 9.4 to one in engineering The staffing problem was emphasized during registration when even senior majors were dosed out of electives and, in some cases, required courses. 

13. 
The Faculty Senate and the Notre Dame Chapter of the American Associa­tion of University Professors [AAUP] co-sponsored a series of informative speakers on the issue of collective bargaining. A spring 1975 Senate survey revealed 42 percent in favor of collective bargaining, 43 percent against, 15 percent undecided and 53 percent in favor of bringing the issue to a formal vote. 

14. 
USC weekend produced more than one skirmish as Dean of Students James Roemer had "offensive" signs and banners with sexual connotations re­moved from University buildings at the request of University president Fr. Theodore Hesburgh; Edmund Stephan, chairman of the Board oflrustees and other University officials. Roemer was briefly charged with forcibly entering a student's room to remove a sign,but was able to prove the charge false. Roemer described Hesburgh's reaction to the signs as "grim" and "white-faced." 

15. 
Dr. Emil T. Hofman, dean of the Freshman Year of Studies announced Feb. 16 that he was resigning his position of five years to devote full time to developing new techniques and preparing two chemistry books for publication. In a surprise move March 30 Hofman announced that the had ac~epted a nomination for the position as Dean of Freshman year. "I want to be able to continue working with freshmen in the way that I have in the past few years," Hofman said. ''I think that it is themost important job I could do in the remainder of my career." Hofman is currently undergoing the five-year re­view required by the Academic Manual. 


eLC~-------~ 





