--~-------------~--­

server 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's
Vol. XI, No. 41 Thursday, November 4, 1976 
Due to insufficient business 
E&L in financial trouble 
by Don Reimer tures. is conducting a survey of the know about it (E&L) and they are Copy Editor area around the supermarket to used to going o;omewhere else." find the reason for the lack of Kemper noted that people still The E&L Supermarket is in · business and to urge residents to tell him they dido 't even know the 
financial trouble that could force it try the store. Arthur Quigley, store was open. to close within three to four president of the council said the Howard pointed to several other months, according to owner-man­canvassers are pointmg out what factore affecting the E&L's busi­
ager Earl Kemper. the store offers and its importance ness. He said the name is not as According to Kemper, the su­to the community, and asking readily identifiable as a chain store permarket, which replaced the residents to try the supermarket. and the E&L has not had enough 
A&P last March, is losing approx­In addition to the sun·ey, Minor­time to be recoginzed as a rtputable imately $1,000 per week. The store, ity Ventures is attempting to help store. located on the corner of Eddy and •the store by contracting to sell He also pointed out that because Howard Sts., is presently doing large quantities of food to institu­there are no other stores in the $21,000-.vorth of business per week tions, such as Notre Dame. Freder­immediate area potential custom­
but this amount ts insufficient for it ick Howard, president of Minority ers are not attracted to the vicinity. to remain in business. Ventures, said he has received one In addition, there might be a 
Minority Ventures Incorporated, such committment and could pos­psychological factor involved, ac­a private investment company that sibly receive two more. cording to Howard. He said that helps minority-owned businesses "This is not good business," minority people might have doubts 
and holds a financial intetest in the Howard admitted, ''because a gro­about the store being good because E&L Supermanket, has charted the cery store depends on fast money it is minority-owned. supermarket's business over the turnover." But he said this gives . "It is very important that the past 29 weeks. The charts show the store some future income and store be here," Quigley stated. that over this period the E&L has could prolong its existence until a ''The store is an integral part of the done only 61% of its anticipated better method is found to get community." He said, "there can amount of business. people to patronize it. [continued on page 2]
The charts reveal that until the Howard has also talked with Notre Dame students returned in Kemp~r and Notre Dame student September, the store took in only government officials in an attempt 
Lally encourages students 
$16,000 to $18,000 per week. to get more students involved in "We are in trouble,'' said Kem­the situation. per. "But business seems to be Kemper said the store advertised 
to file application for RA ·jobs
returning. An increase of $4,000 to heavily over the summer but by Chris Datzman ments to the new financial require· Another new aspect in selection$5,000 a week and we'd be over the business failed to increase. 
Staff Reporter ment this year for RA application. this year is the need for three
hump." Quigley, Howard, and Kemper "In the past Financial Aid has letters of recommendation; twoKemper said a financial state­agree that two reasons for the poor 
Fr. Terrence Lally, assistant been worried about the unequal from heads of hall staffs, (rectorment due in several weeks should business are the deterioration of vice-president of student affairs, distribution of funds,'' Lally added. and assistant rectors) and one fromindicate the store's future. "If the the A&P before it closed and the spoke last night about the process "We want to make sure people who a previous employer. Lally addedfinancial statement' shows us in the two month gap before the E&L of resident assistant (RA) selection. are struggling get aid. However, that this too can be amended soblack we'll have a chance," he opened. ' Addressing a crowd of about SO this does not immediately eliminate that a student may have two letters said. "If not, we're in trouble." "People started going someplace prospective RA's jammed in Far­other qualified people." from employers and one from theThe Northeast Neighborhood else when the A&P was bad" ley's Pop Farley room, Lally stres­Lally predicted that about 80 hall staff.
conjunction with Minority Yen-Quigley said. "Now, they don't sed the importance of students percent of those who fill out a In these recommendations, the applying despite the fact that they Parents Confidential St.atement rector or employer will be asked to may term themselves ineligible for (PCS) will qualify under University relay a specific iinstance where the financial reasons. financial requirements. The few applicant showed outstanding qual­
"No matter what your financial who don't qualify are not neces­ities'needed for RA 's. situation is-apply;' Lally said. sarily disqualified. Other criteria ''The reason for the switch from "Don't just sit up in· your room such as GPA, extra-curricular acti· a letter from a student's peer to one assuming you don't qualify, we'll vities, recommendations, and the from an employer is simple," Lally decide that," he continued. students statement of philosophy continued. "We would receive 
Lally directed most of his com-also weigh heavily. recommendations with straight nine's telling what a wondetful person the student was. It w~s not really all that helpful or objective," he said. 
In a .length_Y question and answer session, most students were con­cerned about the financial require­ment eliminating them and the difficulty in getting a recommen­dation from employers or staff
Nation not apathetic 
members who don't know them. Again reassured applicants that The experts predicted that Am­Truman and Thomas E. Dewey. 
provisions can be made in these ericans were too apathetic to vote The ball-time record low turnout, cases. Letters can be submitted bythis year. But the experts reckoned 43.5% of the voting age population heads of volunteer organizations orwithout the determination of the was in1920 when universal suffrage perhaps three letters can be from

public. · was in effect for the first time. 
hall staffs. These cases should be "There was so much darn talk Gans said yesterday that the discussed in advance with Lally.about apathy, that people decided committee had cited three factors Sr. Jean Lenz. rector of Farlev. not to be apathetic." said one that could boost the turnout: the proposed a solution for those 
politician in Kentucky, explaining presidential debates, a race that students who don't know their hall the heavy turnout in his state. appeared close and Carter's appeal "If your assistant
staff. rector is 
to the South.

On a nationwide basis, th(; new or you just don't know them,
He said the debates had little

turnout was about 53% of tht:. then try to get to know them. Just 
effect on the turnout, but said that

voting age population -above the go and introduce yourself and talk 
the number of people voting in the

level predicted by many experts, to them," she said. 
South was larger than normal. The

but lower than any year since 1948. An important factor for RA 
narrowing of the gap between

The percentage of the voting age application is the necessity of 
Jimmy Carter and President Ford

population balloting in presidential completing a PCS form. If a student 
also brought out more people, Gans 

elections has declined sttradily does not fill one out, he wip not be 
said.

since a record 62.8% turned out for considered. Students who-already
As of midafternoon, the News

the 1960 race between Ricard M. have one on file still need to submit 
Election Service reported 79,398,­

Nixon and John F. Kennedy. a new one. 
843 votes cast for Ford, Carter, Lally recognized the reluctance"For the fourth consecutive independent Eugene J. McCarthy of many parents to complete thiselection, voting as a percentage of and American Independent party form but urged students to per­eligible population declined,'' said candidate Lester Maddox. Totals suade their parents. "You canCurtis Gans of the Committee for for other. minor party candidates assure your parents that the PCS isthe Study of the American Elector· were not immediately available. 

strictly confidential," said Lally.

ate. That figure, based on nearly "The University down not showThe committee said in July tha1 complete voting reports in most them to the IRS or anyone else. The its poll showed voter turnout might areas, represented 52.9% of the only person who will see them isbe less than SO% of those elegible. voting age population, estimated at Mrs. McCauslin in financial aid." 
That would have been the lowest 150 million person. And the num­Students can pick up these forms 
turnout since the 51.1 o/o showing in ber was certain to grow as complete the 1946 race between Harry S. returns were tallied. 



----2-----~--~-----­
r the observer Thursday, November 4, 1976 
,___News Briefs--....... 
r-=-==-====-:-:~:===============National 
Voter turn-out heavy in south 
WASHINGTON -The Center for the Study of the American Electorate estimated the turnout at 52.2 percent, and said its analysis showed that percentage was swelled by a heavy showing in the S6uth which favored Carter. 

New republjcan house 
INDIANAPOLIS -A newly-won Republican majority in the Indiana House saved him from a veto-proof legislature, but Gov. Otis R. Bowen says he expects difficulty getting his programs through the Democrat-dominated Senate. 


Republican majority 
INDIANAPOLIS [API -As his television advertisements pro 
claimed. Richard Lugar's day has come. 
The 44-year-old Indianapolis mayor, already touted as a prospective Republicna presidential candidate, swamped three­term Sen. Vance Hartke on Tuesday night, capturing almost 60 percent of the vote in winning the Senate seat that eluded him two years ago. 
At that time, the former Rhodes scholar and present-day college professor was defeated by Birch Bayh . 

.,__._On Campus Today___. 
9 am -book sale, annual fall book sale, sponsored by 
3:30 pm -university press, O'shaughnessy hall. 
10 am-exhibition, etchings and drawings of ron shaefer, isis 5 pm-gallery. 
2:30pm-meeting, al-anon, an organization for families and 
4:30 pm ­
4:30pm ­
4:30 ­
6:30 pm ­6:30pm ­friends of alcoholics, 3rd floor, infirmary. 
seminar, "the anatomy and function of the fish gill" by dr_ bren gannon, flinders univ., south australia, sponsored by biology dept., coffee at 4 pm, galvin aud. 
seminar, "studies of the photochemistry and spectro­scopy of the chlorophyll derivatives" by prof. gerhard I. closs, dept. of chemistry, univ. of chicago, sponsored by chemistry dept., room 123, nieuwland science hall. 
auction, united way auction, smc dining hall. 
meeting, scholastic writing staff, anyone interested invited, scholastic office, top floor Iafortune. 

7&10 pm -film, "nashville," sponsored by physics club, engineer­
7:30pm ­
8 pm ­
8:15 pm ­midnite­ing aud. 
philosophy conference, "ideology and theory assess­ment in economics" by charles wilbur, n.d., commenta­tors: ernan mcmullin, david lewis, n.d., crowley hall of music. 
concert, fall choral concert, o'laughlin aud. 
concert, faculty chamber concert, library aud. 
the album hour, featuring phoebe snow's new album "it looks like snow," wsnd 640 am. 

N1ght Ed1tor: Marti Hogan Asst. Night Editors: Katie Kerwin, Jack D'Aurora . Layout staff: Lmda ~~_Ibm,
Steve Odland, Barry Till1s Editorial Layout'; Pat Hanifin Sports Layout: Paul Stevenson 

~:~~syts:Eg~:r~~ ~~~h~~?~ 
~~~~~e~orning Poobah: Morey 
Day Editor: Mary Mungovan 
copy Reader: Barb (MTM) Langhenry Ad Layout; Tom walrat~ . 
Photographer: Dom 1 n 1ck 
Yocius
Thanks to Fr. Toohey and Sr. Jane Pib for coming up to 
celebrate the Observer's 10t" birthday. 
Happy Birthday to the sM_c 
~ I 
~ · 
.......­
)f. 
"""-­
.......­
* 
"""-...
* 





Toy collection scheduled 
by Terri Blazi Staff Reporter 

The Annual Toy Shop, sponsored by the Mental Health Association Campus Health program, will be held Dec. 4, to provide the patients of logansport State Hospital in Indianapolis with gifts for their children this Christmas. 
Interviews with the residents of Logansport State Hospital are go­ing to be held this Saturday. These interviews are conducted to find out "what the patients would like to send their relatives for Christ­mas," said Joe Wells, a member of the Mental Health Association (MHA) at Notre Dame. 
''The gifts are given to the patients' relatives aging from four to ten years as an average," added Wells. He said that this toy shop makes Christmas a better time for the patients: they know that their 
E&L may close 

[continued from page 1] be no community with a string of taverns and the neighborhood suf­fers without local stores." Another important feature of the locally owned store is that the manager is a member of the community and can work with the people to better meet their needs, according to Quigley. Convenience for the elderly and students, employment opportun­ities, and the chance for minority persons to learn management skills were listed by Howard as important reasons to maintain the local store. "A local store permits minority persons to learn management capabilities," Howard said. "And we are very interested in investing in businesses where minorities can learn these skills." He noted the store generates about 17 jobs. 
Blakely to speak 

Robert Blakely, a practicing attorney and graduate of Cornell University Law School will sneak about his alma mater and abou·t his experiences in law practice in Room 103 of O'Shaughnessy Hall on Friday, Nov. 5 at 7 p.m. 
All students are welcome to attend. 
ThE> ObsE>rvE>r is published Monday through Friday and weekly during the summer session, except during the exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $20 per year ($10 per semester) from The Obser­ver, Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 
The Observer is a member of the 
Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

******************** 
r*The Observerl :THE TRIP IS ON!!t 
"""-... ....... *  BUS  T • · np  .  ~ '"J'  
"""-­.......­*  & Concert Tt.cket  ~ ~ '"J'  
~  

"""-... ~


;..HE EAGLES~ 
~ ~ 
Thursday Nov.ll '"" 
. . · . ~ 

Chicago Stadium ~ 
'"J' 
p . $ ~ 


nee· 16 ~ 
. · , Student Body Czar--Mary Loy . .......-. . . · S U T" k t Off" '"J' 
l_Bilek ·. • · • • J .....:.: . . tC e ICe · . ~ 
•· • '·t'','$' ·:.:.:·: <<~·---~*************.*****~
I 

.......-BUSSES LEAVE THE MAIN CIRCLE '""
. 
~ AT 5:30pm ~ 
~ Tickets on sale Friday Nov. 5· ~ 
families will still receive gifts even though they are in the hospital. ­
Once the interviews have been conducted, fund and toy raising activities begin. Wells plans to donate money from the Notre Dame MHA account. He also intends to ask local merchants for donations of money and toys. 
In the past, merchants have contributed items that were over­stocked, discontinued or slightly damaged and "had been repair­ed.'' Also,'' organizations and indivfduals donate new toys or used ones in good condition," said Wells. 
On Sat., Dec. 4, the collected gifts will be wrapped and distribut­ed in the Toy Shop at the hospital. Some volunteers will stay overnight to provide Sunday entertainment and "to help make the weekend a real gala affair for the residents," stated an MHA press release. 
Wells asked that anyone inter­ested in any part of the Toy Shop or in donating something contact him at 3682, Morrissey Hall. Transpor­tation, meals and overnight accom­odations are provided free of 
charge to vol:!!nteers. 





TAKE THE CHALLENGE 
Warehouse Sound Co. San Luis Obispo, ca. 

LIST Audio Outlet p,_oneer Project 60 speakers . $79.95 ea. $46.-.ea. $39.50 ea. Harmon Kardon 330 AM'IFM rece1ver $219.95 $173. $149. Sansui 9090 AM 1/FR receiver $750 $445.
$537. Reac -170 Dolby cassette deck 240. $198. $171. 
$197.

Sansui 551 AM'IFM receiver $260. $146.50 
RMS Audio South Bend, lnd Audio Outlet
LIST 
$370. $290.

Marantz 2235 B AM 'IFM receiver $450. 
$199. S163.5u

Marantz 2215B AM'IFM receiver $250. 
$199. $254.75

Technics SA5460 AM'IHI/f receiver $400. 
$330. $128.

Kenwood KR2600 AM'IFM receiver $400. 
>330. $176.

Pioneer SX550 AM'IFM receiver $190. 
1;155.
$250. 
$199 

The lowest guaranteed prices for speakers, receivers, turntables, radios, televisions, CB's headphones..... ALL top-brand names. 


AUDIO~ 
325 Pas<?ack Avenue I Washington Township, New Jersey 07675 
For Information Call 283-1181 


CHAllE IE= 
If you've got it, prove it. If you want it, work for it. If you think you're a leader, show us. That's what we ask and expect of every college man who enters our Platoon Leaders Class 
. . .

comm1Ss1on1ng program. PLC ... with ground, air and law options, summer training, and the chance for up to $2,700 in financial assistance. But to make our team ... you have to meet our challenge. 
THE MARINES 
ARE LOOKING FOR A ~ 
FEW GOOD MEN. ~ 
ON CAMPUS-LA FORTUNE STUDENT CENTER NOVEMBER 2-5, p A.M. to 4 P.M. · · · .... , · 
, 


[photo by Dominick Yocius] 
the sales field last night in Madeleva HaiL 
Keenan to present variety show 
by Kathy Mills in Keenan. "Our goal was to do News Editor things as professionally as possible." 

Keenan Hall will present "The The revue contains 17 acts and New Keenan Review, an Evening involves 45 performers. The acts of Song, Dance and Comedy" include a soft rock number, a Saturday night at 8 p.m. in classical violin act and a barbership Washington Hall. ·octet's performance with some 
"It is a serious attempt at choreography according to Rick entertainment," explained Tom Thomas, the other producer-direc­Lenz, one of the producer-directors tor of the revue. A 13-piece state of the show and a resident assistant band will servt' to unify the show's 
Congress establishes new photocopy laws for '78 
from the author. 
by Mike Shields The major problems, as forseenStaff Reporter by Christopher Nedeau, assistantNew photocopying guidelines li­counsel to the University, aremiting the length and number of enforcement and application of the duplications of copyrighted mater­guidelines. As of now, there is noials will become effective of Jan. 1, mode of enforcement for the guide­1978. The guidelines passed by lines. Nedeau feels that ultimately Congress will limit free photocopy­the courts will have to draw the line ing. 

on photocopying rights. 

This action was taken after a ten The widespread use oi photocop­year struggle by educational assoc­ying and the difficulty of enforce­iations to clarify existing laws. The ment invite abuse of the newguidelines were drawn up by a guidelines. As Nedeau statescommittee of representatives from "Compliance(with the guidelines) educational associations, publish­is up to the honor ot tne scno1~r.
ers, and authors. Tlre guidelines, which are not laws, confirm exist­It will take a few months for the ing rules on photocopying. guidelines to be fully analyzed, but 
Beginning in 1978, researchers first reactions are not in favor of the and teachers can, without charge, new rulings. The American Assoc­make single copies of chapters of iation of Law Schools blasts them in books, articles , and short stories, saying "the guidelines restrict fair poems, charts, graphs, diagrams, use so substantially as to make it and cartoons. almost useless for classroom teach­Many copies can be made, ing purposes." The American without charge, of brief works for Association of University Profess­
· classroom use or as teaching ors calls the guidelines " a prohibi­materials. Poems copied must tion." contain fewer than 250 words. · 
Copies of articles will be limited to 2500 words, while copies of longer stories may contain no more than 1000 words, or 10 percent of the work. No copies of consumable works, such as textbooks, will be allowed without the author's con­sent. 
The guidelines placed emphasisi on "spontaneous" copying. An example of this would be a teacher needing copies of a work without having time to obtain permission 
Student Union presents: Robert Mitchum Charlotte Rampling in a classic thriller 
FAREWELL MY LOVELY engineering auditorium 7,9,llpm saturday, sunday nov. 6, 7 one dollar 
acts, Lenz added. 
Lenz noted the show will last approximatelytwo hours and opena dance-reception in the old laundry room in the basement of Keenan Hall will follow the show. He said there will be "plenty of food and drink" at this party. 
Small parties within the sec­tions of Keenan will precede the revue. Semi-formal dress is re­quested for the evening, but is not necessary, according to Lenz. "This is a chance for Keenan to shine and for people within the hall 
to get to know each other," Lenz pointed out. He said approxima­tely two-thirds of the hall residents 
were involved in the production "in one way or another." Thomas comment~~d. "It's a real 
opportunity for a more creative social activity and I hope it will be followed by more things like it.'' 
Lenz emphasized there will be no admission charge for the revue or for the dance. He noted all costs of the show were underwritten by a grant from Keenan's hall council. 
Lenz also said he hopes the show will turn out to be "The First Annual Keenan Review." "We're really hoping for a good turnout," he said, "and we're extending a wide-open invitation. The evening is free across the board." He urged all members of the faculty, administration, and student body to attend. 
Thomas .will emcee the produc­tion. Erin Dwyer is handling publicity, while John Murphy is in charge of programs. 
Bob Gildea designed the set for the show. The sound system was put together by Bob Zajec. Terry Smith is the state manager. 
Thursday, November 4, 1976 the observer 

Several positions open for women in business 
by Sue Lechlelder Staff Reporter 

The biggest resource yet untap­ped in the business world is women, according to Carol Collins and Greg Weimantel, who spoke at the seminar, Women In Sales Management, sponsored by the St. Mary's Career Development Cen­ter last night. 
Collins, a 1975 St. Mary's grad­uate and Weismantel. a 1962 Notre Dame graduate, are currently em­ployed by General Foods in North­lake, Ill. Both shared their views based on personal experience. particularly regarding the role of women in today's business world. 
Working as a sales representa­tive, Collins described her job as, "a real concoction of opposites." "It's important to know yourself and to know the thresholds of what you can and can't take," she stated. She has found that arguing a point based on logic with people whose education is generally lower 
than college level to be a problem. 
weismantel stressed the need for women in the sales field, especially those with a liberal arts background. A business degree does not necessarily enable one to be a salesperson. "Sales is there, it's an opportunity, a one-on-one pressure packed field," stated Weismantel. 
He also differentiated between "smartness" and "intelligence" · on the part of a salesperson. There's a difference that is most important in this realm, he stated. Collins related details of her own career after garduation. Describing herself as reasonably extroverted, Collins stressed that one can run 'the risk of being seriously unhapp)' in a job. "You have to strike a 
Fine dining 

"Lewisio's" an Italian Restaurant located In the basement of 
Lewis Hall. Every Friday night at 7 p.m., for $1.50 you can eat your ftiJ of spaghetti, meat sauce, garlic bread, salad, cake and coffee or tea. The atmosphere Is relaxed with music provided by a jupebox. 
Tickets may be purchased from the Lewis Hall Clerk Thursdays from 3 to 5 and Frldav from 10 to 12 at the Front Desk. 

• Pizza King 
We invite you to 1ry our delicious 
pizza, hot sandwiches and tasty salad&. BEER Spectat Monday nights. 
Pitchers of Budweiser $1.50 Mlchelob $1.75 Tues. nita after 4pm· ·$1.00 ofl 
on all large pizzas. 
balance," she stated, "It is most important that you be happy." 
According to Collins, a corpora­tion wants to make sure that their personnel is tried and true before advancing them. "You have to be willing to accept facts that it is going to take some time to get where you want to go.'· stated Collins. She admitted that a posi­tion in sales management is very inviting. 
In response to a question con· cerning what he looks for in a potential sales representative. Weismantel stated. "I look for something that shows that an individual is a self starter. someone with a high energy level. .. This could be anything. according to Weismantel. from something said in an interview to an award won. 
Both Collins and Weismantel stressed the need for women with liberal arts educations to appr<;Jach this field and consider it serious!) when selecting a career. 
Colling was an education major. and recipient of the Lumen Chri~t· ae award while at St. Mary's. Collins feels. that her present position is a step in the right direction twoards her future goals. 
ERA group 
to meet tonight 
There will be an Equal Rights Amendment (ERA) strategy ses­
sion  tonight  at  7:30  p.m.  in  the  
Student  Lounge  of  St.  Mary's  
Madeleva Hall.  

"This will be a working session to develop specific strategy on how we can work together to assure the passage of ERA in January," Stated Kathy Barnard, president of the South Bend League of Women Voters. 
Community at 





·arm 
Barber & Hair 
a 
Style Shop . 


' 
277-0615 ' 
s 

Close to Campus 

Ampeg 
..."'.....unt to all ND-SMC students with FEATURING FINE EQUIPMENT BY: 
• Guild 

• 
Marshall 


• S.L Mossman 

• 
Gibson 

• Swede 

-. Musicman 
• M.X.R. 

• Yamaha 
• Blessing 

Band instruments and ace2ssories Drum center now open home of professional and future professional musicians finest' seleCtions of guitars, amps and accessories 
50921 U.S. 31 


*The Observer 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's 

The Observer is. published by students of the University of Notre Dame and St Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of either institution. The news is reported a~ accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials rPprt>~ent thP opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Comnwntaries, opinions and letters are the views of their author~ Column space is available to all members of the commun1ty, and letters are encouraged to promote the free PxprP~~Ion of varying opinions on campus. 
l3usiness Manager Tom Fronczak Advertising Manager Mike Miller Photo Editor Tony Chifari Production Manager Martha L. Fanning 

Box Q, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 Phones: (219) 283-8661 [ND] (219) 284-5365 [SMC] 
EDITORIAL BOARD 
Thomas O'Neil  Editor-in-Chief  
Dan Sanchez  Managing Editor  
Chris Smith  Asst. Managing Ed.  
Cregg Bangs  Executive Editor  
Val Zurblis  Executive Editor  
Pat Hanifin  Editorial Editor  
Bob Mader  Exec. News Editor  
Maureen Flynn  Campus Editor  
Marti Hogan  St. Mary's Editor  
Don Reimer  Copy Editor  
Tim O'Reiley  Features Editor  
Fred Herbst  Sports Editor  

Thur~day, November 4, 1976 

A NewHope 
America took a risk Tuesday but there is a good chance that it will pay off. Jimmy Carter, who will become the nation's thirty-ninth president, is more of an unknown than the solid, safe President Jerry Ford. Casting any vote is an attempt to guess the future and pick the man best able to meet it. The risks are always biggest when you pick the challenger, especially one who "came from nowhere" to win. 
But America has not gotten as far as it has without taking chances. In this race there were good reasons to go with Carter. With the support of a solidly Democratic Congress, Carter offers the hope of getting the country moving again, of a new drive to face the challenges of the economy and of social justice after eight years of denial, drift and deadlock. It is just a hope, but it is the best hope we have. 
And what of Gerald Ford, the first incumbent President to be defeated since Herbert Hoover? Though he was in a way Richard Nixon's parting gift to America, Ford is an honest, sincere man. He is likely to go down in history for one great service to his country: in the aftermath of Watergate, when America was shaken by its worst constitutional crisis since the Civil War, Ford helped restore confidence in the integrity of the Presidency. Even the Nixon pardon, though it was a miscarriage of justice and cost him crucial votes, was an attempt to "put Watergate behind us." But these are unstable times, and stability can be bought only at the expense of letting problems build into crises. Ford proved unable to lead the nation into an active attack on our problems. 
It is usual in the aftermath of a presidential election to talk of the need to unite around the winner and both Carter and Ford have done so. But the usual rhetoric is right: Carter is going to have to unite at least a considerable majority of the country behind him if he is to fulfill the hopes of his supporters. Though his victory Tuesday was narrow, Carter's ability to organize a winning coalition at all in only twenty-two months and to capture the Democratic Party without splitting it indicates he has the potential for success­ful leadership. He has succeeded in re-uniting a party's diverse and quarrel­ling factions. For America's sake, we hope he can succeed again with re-uniting the nation. 

Observer's Tenth 
Ten years ago The Observer was founded with the credo to "observe, remark, notice, comment and adhere." Ten years to the day of its foundation, The Observer published the results of the HPC student poll on our general success in those areas. The poll showed that a majority of students believed this publica­tion to be a "good" one. 
These poll results come to us, then, as something of a birthday gift. Ten years ago yesterday, The Observer was founded by a handful of students who believed they were founding a "promise and a purpose" as well. Much has changed since those early days. Notre Dame has since seen the successful introduction of coeducation, the abolition of some strigent disciplinary procedures, and the transfer of Notre Dame's ownership from the Holy Cross Order to the lay Board of Trustees. The Observer has also progressed since those early days. Today it is a daily publication put out by the students of both Notre Dame and St. Mary's. 
ND-SM C is probably the smallest col­lege community in the nation to maintain a daily newspaper. Surely, it is the only one to do so without a school of journalism. Our attempts at being a professional news­paper occasionally fall short of our hopes and expectations, but we are nonetheless relentless in our efforts to improve our coverage and ourselves. 
H.L Mencken once remarked about newspapers: "The average newspaper has the intelligence of a hillbilly evangelist, the courage of a rat, the fairness of a prohibitionist boob-jumper, the informa­tion of a high school janitor, the taste of a designer of celluloid valentines and the honor of a police station iawyer." Consi­dering how we fared in the recent HPC poll our track record could generally be regarded as a good one. 
We would like to wish ourselves a happy birthday. 
------~-~---------­

Cynics Wrong 
~----------iiiiiiiiiii mike richter 
Being cynical today is the fash­
ionable thing. 
A cynic, according to Webster, is ''One who attributes all actions to selfish motives." Today, more than ever before, cynicism pervades our world towards all levels of govern­ment, towards our society, and now even towards our contacts with one another. 
Most have heard the saying, ''A healthy cynicism." This leads people to believe that cynicism is good in some cases. Cynicism is not good. True, it is good to reevalua.te, to shake things up, to start fresh again towards goals, particularly after a period of slcaking-off, but cynicism does not accomplish any of these things. Cynicism makes people too pessimistic to re-eval­uate, too resigned to shake things up, too tired from the world to start fresh again. The cynic's original goals remain misplaced, some­where neglected, lost. Cynical thought leads us backwards only. 
A cynic is a person who no longer bothers to look at what others do, good or bad, but instead prejudges their motives. He automatically condemns people's motives, and their original goals as twisted and selfish. The cynic's outlook be­comes stale, depressed, flabby, not innovative, both in the way he loods at individuals, and in the way he looks at the big, "immovable, impersonal, unchangeable," soc­iety. The cynic falls deeper and deeper into moodiness, and inactiv­ity. He asks the question, "Why bother?". He 'knows', "It doesn't really matter what I do anyway." He can't find or doesn't bother to look for answers worth making him care: for his world, about others, and most importantly, about him­self. 
What are some of the causes of cynicism? First, our leaders treat people as groups to be manipulated rather than individuals to be con­cerned about. Another cause is lack of faith in oneself and one's own personal ability to make anything any better. Breaches of faith, broken contracts, rash or stupid behavior by someone loved and respected cause a person to lose respect for the loved, respected individual and to question whether anyone or anything is good or important enough to be worth­while. Cynics are sad lonely people. The cynic hasn't learned, or has forgotten that there is more reason for doing something than hoping to achieve acknowledge­ment from others. 
Most kind actions are done for the pleasure of seeing someone else made happy. Some cynics know that making others happy makes you happy. Therefore, to them, all good deeds done to make others happy make the actor hap­py, and are therefore selfish. 
This raises some difficult ques­tions. Is seeking pleasure in the joy of another selfish? Is it selfish to give of oneself to make others happy? If the answer to either of these questions is yes, then the respondent should not believe in God, because Christ becomes the biggest egomaniac of all time. 
How does one become uncynic al? It is hard. Cynical attitudes are self-fulfilling prophecies. It is pos­sible, but tough to break the cycle. Usually, it takes another person who reaches out to the cynic. This person offers the cynic his or her time, is kind, open, and sharing, of himself, and of the things he owns. The cynic begins to realize that there are people in the world who do care for others, for consider­ations besides their own, and who keep on going despite the fact that society is so large that their own impact seems humiliatingly small in comparison. Cynics can break the cycle of cynical thought if they want to and knowing this type of person helps. 
It is very important to remember 

that any contribution, no matter 
how small, is important. 
Some say that one act of kind­ness is a drop in 1the bucket, not worth much, inconsequestial. But if the drop in a bucket is a drop of food coloring, it can indeed start to color the water a little. Making one person feel better is important, but cynics do not think that way. That is why cynicism is the blight of our population. It will destroy us if we let it grow. It cripples our ability to act, it cripples our will to do good things for others, and it cuts us down until we decide it is no longer necessary or worth our while to pursue high ideals. Worse yet, we spread the rot in us to others. 
Cynicism must not become a way of life for us. As students of Notre Dame, and as intelligent people, we are all poten­tialleaders; both in the large sense of leading responsible action, get­ting things done in our communit­ies, and in the more personal sense that we all have either little brothers and sisters, or friends who look to us for example. We must be innovative, strong, and selfless. To be able to know how to do this, it is important that we learn to be uncynical now so that others can believe in us, and more impor­tantly, that we learn to believe in ourselves. 
P. 0. Box Q 
Dear Editor: This letter is a protest against your columnist Chip Spina and his attempt at Journalism. Since the beginning of the semester the reader's of your sports page have 
been  subjected  to  his  disgusting  
style.  ·  
Since  September  we  have  

learned that Mr. Spina does not like Northwestern University, Woody Hays, (sic) the Cincinnati Reds and now Cleveland, Ohio. Is there anything that he does like? In a recent column. Chip apolo-
VENTllf?A ~ /?JCK... RICK.!.. FINA/..JJICON­
7HCN.. IT5.. 
IT'S AU OVER..
WHE!?e AI?E C£0E[)AT

m 
'fV(J.I WHAT 3:30/ I:+t 
A~/?. NINE 1-fAPPE.NW?! FINISHING MON!HS.. .41.1-..

ffl 
I UPMY5m! I ..OYB<..

z 
""-... 

0 
0 
0 

gized for not writing for a while. Could it be he could not find anything to complain about? 
Cleveland has been the brunt of many jokes and, admittedly. it is not the clealtest city in the nation. However, the manufacture of steel and auto parts have ne,ver been he the cleanest of industries. Both are very prevalent in Cleveland's econ­omy. 
As for Municipal Stadium. there rs all new plumbing and electric wiring in this usually clean facility. Both teams knew that the stadium is made for baseball too and not all seats are the best due to their distance from the field. This, however, is not a problem limited to Municipal Stadium. 
If Cleveland is such a Hell on earth; then why do 2 m.illion people live in the general area? Why did the students that made the trip have such a good time? And, finally why did a prominent member of the football program tell 
me  that they  were treated "first  
class all the w ay?"  
BobKoney  

-------~---­

A hapless snowman was rolled last night as students frolicked in the season's first snow. [photo by Dominick Yocius] 

Soph Lit Festival plans underway 
by Joe Gill Staff Reporter 

Although the Sophomore Liter­ary Festival is scheduled for the same week as Mardi Gras (Ft:b. 13-19), John Santos, Festival chair­man, "doesn't feel that it's going to be a conflict." 
"If people are excited about literature, they're going to come," he said. "I don't feel as if it's going to hurt our attendance." The reason for the simultaneous sched­uling, said Santos, is "because the week before is too early in the semester, and the week ·after 
conflict with midterm"-" 
Since its inception in 1968, the Literary Festival has provided a chance for students to associate with contemporary authors through readings and informal seminars during one week in the spring. According to Santos, ''The Soph­omore Literary Festival is one of the few truly prestigious cultural events the University has. It has a national reputation, and it's an honor to have the students spons·or
it.•• In the same breath, however, Santos expressed his displeasure at "the limited budget" allotted by the Student Union for the Festival. fhe budget was cut last year from S14,000 to $11,000. Santos noted that author Edward Albee expres­sed his desire to attend the festival but wants "$1,000 more than we ::an afford to give him." 
Santos said that his committee is "putting out a real effort to make this an ffi.tegral experience for the people of the University." The theme of the festival is "maps," and "what is meant to be drawn from this analogy is that literature is a mapping of the geographies of consciousness," he said. 
"The Poetry (of the authors featured this year) conjures images, lands that we all have inside of us. Everything the poet feels is something that is univer­sally felt," said Santos. "The poet then attempts to map these feel­ings," he said. 
The authors this year include: 
William Stafford a poet, critic and writer of personal experiences, who is "a poet of the outdoors, and a very self-searching author," said Santos. He has taught at numer­ous colleges, including Lewis and Clark College and Manchester. He was in a conscientious objector camp in World War II and his books include AUeglances(1970), The Rescued Year(1966) and That Other Alone(1973. In 1962, he won the National Book Award for Trav­ing Through the Dark. 
Michael Benedikt is the poetry editor of The Paris Review. He is a poet, editor playwright and transla­tor of anthologies of French and German works, and is ''the most respected surrealist in the coun­try," said Santos·. "He is a jack-of­all-trades and has been every­where. He is just brilliant'' he said. 

U.N. position challenging 
They all s·ay it is an impossible 
job, a frustrating job, a back­
breaking job. But once they get it, 
they don''t want to give it up. 
The job is secretary-general of 
the United nations, and all of the men who have held it seemed to · have had a love-hate relationship. 
with it. 
The first, Trygve Lie of Norway, 
who was elected on Feb. 1, 1946, 
called the post "the most impossi­
ble job on this earth." 
Yet he accepted a three-year 
extension of his five-year term and 
would have served beyond his 
seven years in office had not the 
Soviet Union in effect forced him 
out because of his stand against the 
north Korean invasion of South 
Korea. 
The second, Dag Hammarskjold 
of Sweden, who was elected in 
April, 1952, who wrote in his 
deeply religious private diary the 
day he was elected secretary­
general: 
Hammarskjold, too, accepted 
a second five-year term and severd 
81/2 years in all before he was killed 
in a plane crash on a peace mission 
in Africa. 
His immediate successor, U 
Thant of Burma, spoke of the 
"heavy responsibilities" of the 
office. Still he served two terms 
totaling 10 years before he retired 
because of illness. 
The fourth and current secretary­
general, Kurt· Walkheim of Aus­
tria, has called the job "the most strenuous I ever had'' and some­times the "most frustrating." 
But now Waldheim says he would "regard it as a privilege and an honor'' if he were re-elected to a second, five-year term to follow the one he will finish Dec. 31. 
It looks as if he will be re-elected. 
The secretary-general gets what it takes to live woull -roughly $92,000 a year in salary and expenses and the use of a limou­sine and the use of $1 million Manhattan town house. 
But he scarcely has time to take advantage of the job benefits. He 
· is too busy with the problems of a far-flung bureaucracy of upward of 10,000 international civil servants, and those of many of 145 member nations as well. 
''There is no family life any­more," Waldheim said in an· interview in his 38th floor office after some years on the job. "I have to be here from early in the morning until late in the evening ... 
"But it's part of the job. I used to say when my wife was comp­plaining about no family life, I said, .'You can't have the cake and eat it. You must accept the challenge.' And I always accepted the chal­lenge. Otherwise I wouldn't have accepted this job. 
''And this job is a job which only somebody can really do who is ready to accept the chal.Jenge, because it's sometimes a most frustrating job · most frustrating. You want to do so much more." 

He is also noted for his work with avant-garde plays and his major works include Mole Notes(1971), Sky(l970) and The Body(1968). David Ignatow is a poet, writer of short stories, and autobiographer. He is Editor-at-large for the Amer­ican Poetry Review and is currently teaching at Columbia University. He "writes about ev•ery man's experiences, and especially about urban themes in which he incor­porates images, such as dreams," said Santos. His major works mclude Selected Poems(l975), Say Pardon (1962) and Rescue the Dead (1968). Denis Levertov is "the premier woman poet in the country right now," according to Santos. She is a poet, essayist and translator, has taught at MIT and currently teaches at Tufts University, Mass. She writes •·a poetry of the unconscious, and has a unique style called 'organic forln' " he said. Her major works include The Freeing of Dust (1975), 'lrhe Sorrow Dance (1967) and We LE:arnlng the Alphabet (1970). 
WIUlam Goyen is a novelist and short story writer. He writes "Short stories set in a small town in Texas, with a style reminiscent of Faulkner and Joyce in exposing the bizarre and disturbing influences on life," said Santos. A collection of his works was published in 1974 entitled Selected Works, which featured stories from the last two decades. Other works are The House of Breath (1950) and Ghost 1n Flesh (1952). 
There is also a possibility that Hortense Calisher and Lara (riding) Jackson will be coming. 
Santos noted that "lit's under­standable that people that people don't recognize these names. But it would be a shame to let these people pass and not be able to meet them. Lack of familiarity is not a sign of obscurity; it's a sign that we're not reading contemporary poetry." 

Complete service facili­ties for bicycle~, sa~ba gear & skis. Sportsaafts in the sporls center. 51400 U.S. 31 North. Telephone: 212..5300. 
Spor.:t$Crafts 
Thursday, November 4, 1976 
the observer 


PR directors named 
by Tim Creagan Staff Reporter 

The appointment of two new 
regional directors for development 
at Notre Dame, Thomas R. Pilot, 
Jr. and John J. Smith. was announ­
ced by Dr. James W. Frick, vice 
president for public relations and 
development. 
Public Relations and Develop­ment is. one of the major admini­strative subdivisions of the Univer­sity and the Development Office is one of its subdivisions. The Devel­opment Office is concerned with raising money to offset some of the operating costs of the University, stated Thomas Suddess, Coordin­ator of the Development staff. 
Suddess stated that this money is solicitated by five regional directions located in Chicago, Los Angeles, New York City and on the campus. These contributions come from alumni, friends of Notre Dame, parents of students, corporations and foundations. 
Pilot will direct the activities of one of the two development offices on campus. He received his bache­lor's and master's degree from Notre Dame in 1965 and 1966. He recently served as market planning manager for Beverage Manage­ment, Inc. of Columbus. Ohio and 
Pepsi-Cola Company of Purchase, 
New York. His region of the 
country includes Indiana, Ken­tuckv, Tennessee, North and South Car~lina. Georgia. Florida. Ala­bama, Mississippi. Louisiana and Arkansas. 
Smith, who will direct the Chi­cago branch of the Development Office. has territon· which includes Illinois, Wiscons.in. Minne<;ota. Iowa and Missouri. He graduated from Notre Dame in 1954 and i~ the father of a current Notre Dame student. For the pa~t se\eral years Smith has worked in Chicago in the insurance business. 
The general duties of the regional direl·tors indudc the personal soli· :itation of potential financial con· tributors. the orgnaization of Io~.·al functions pertinent to Notre Dame ,such as luncheons for volunteers and various other administrative duties.) 
Through their efforts $2.5 to $3 million are contributed from solici­ted alumni annuallv. Funds are also solicited from foundations and corporations. which have con­tributed $1.8 million and $1.6 million, respel'tively, in fiscal 1976 alone. 
Whale war truce sought 
The unrelenting efforts of some small but dedicated conservcation groups have finally achieved a glimmer of hope for a truce in the Great Whale War. 
The recent hopeful signs include: 
*a statement issued Oct. 18 by a coalition of 15 Japanese environ­mental groups, calling for a 10-year moratorium on whaling (Japan and Russia account for more than 80 percent of the intrnational whale kill); 
*a progressive reduction in worldwide whaling quotas decreed by the International Whaling Com­mission (IWC) this summer; 
*and persistent rumors that the governments of Japan and Russia have agreed to suspend all whaling within two to three years. 
Yet in the wake of these break­throughs, cracks have appeared in the Save the Whale fron over the various tactics pursued by the organizations responsible for the progress. 
The most controversial tactic -a boycott of Japanese and Russian products -has produced recent charges of "vicious racism" 
against Japanese and Japanese­Americans. 
University seeks RA 's 
continued from page 1 appropriate rectors. in the Financial Aid Office and RA Students should indicate the three applications are in the Student halls they would like to apply for Affairs Office. Completed forms and their names will be automati­and letters of recommendation cally sent there in March. Indivi­should be returned to Student dual rectors will then conduct Affairs by Jan. I. PCS forms should interviews and use their own also be returned by Jan. 1 to the methods for selection. Financial Aid Office. Lally's closing remarks to all The list of University approved students were simply. "Please students will be available March I. apply." Present RA's who wish to apply In response to this after the again next year are automatically meeting. Lenz replied. "Augh. I approved by the University and have I06 juniors and I think they all their names will be sent to the -.ant to be RA's. · 

the observer Thursday, November 4, 1976 
Engineering addition underway 
Architectural plans for the addit­ion to the Cushing Hall of Engin­eering at Notre Dame are nearly complete and bids for construction will be requested in December, according to Dr. Joseph C. Hogan, dean of the College of Engineering. Construction could start as early as .January and the addition will be ready for occupancy by fall 1978. 
Plans for the site call for a live-level addition of 155,000 ~9uare feet. The three stories above ground will extend 90 feet ~outh from the present building and along the entire 300-foot­lcngth. 
Depending on construction costs. the two levels below ground pro­bably will incl11de an L-shaped addition extending south and east beyond the main structure. At least 110,000 square feet will be built during the initial construction, more than doubling the size of the present building, which has 90,000 square feet. 

The building was designed to be compatible with the 43-year-old Cushing Hall, and the brick, lime­stone and slate roof on the exterior will match the older building as closely as possible. 
One of the College's problems has been that its physical facilities are dispersed on campus. When the addition is completed, the departments of Chemical, Civil, Metallurgical, Electrical, and Aero­space and Mechanical Engineering as wellas the Colleges administra­
tive offices will be housed in one building. The wind tunnels and fire research facilities will be 
Former death row convict favors capital punishment 
by Bob Varettoni Staff Reporter 

A man saved from facing the electric chair by the vote of one juror spoke out in favor ofthe death penalty last night in Washington Hall. 
William Geraway, who spent 18 
years in prisons in 13 states, said 
h·· did not believe it was possible to 
rehabilitate an adult offender. 
"I have never encountered a 
reform program that had any 
mca.1ingful effect on a prisoner," 
Geraway said. He added that 
mavbl no such program exists. 
Geraway himself faced the death 
penalty as the result of a murder 
conviction. More than SO students 
listened as he admitted shooting a 
man who supplied firearms to 
participants in a 1960's gang war in 
Massachusetts. 
"The man had killed a number of 
people, some of whom were my 
friends. It was simply a revenge 
thing," said Geraway, "I felt no 
moral quams about it at all."· 

Geraway, sentenced to life, fought for his release on the grounds that his own law firm had supplied evidence against him. His later testimony led to the arrest of organized crime figures in four states. At one ·point, while he was still in prison. a $50.000 contract 
was placed for his life. 

Geraway said he entered his first institution in 1948 wh~n he was 13. He said that for most of his life he had been a counterfeiter. 
"I don't discuss my background with any amount of pride," he added. Once. when asked if he believed in an after-life, Geraway responded. "I hope so, it's the only shot I have." 
This summer Geraway worked in a home for deliquent children. "Maybe," he said. "I can prevent a Bill Geraway from growing up."
f ..............l 
• z_zz._1-.. -..u..
:
•
··~~~·~~~-~n-~-­
: : 
: Relax between studies : 
• 
Sportscrafts has a com-• 

• 
plete line of hobby and ~ aaft supplies at reason­

• 
able prices. Special dis-· 

• 
counts to model club 

• 
members. Owned and : operated by N.D. grad. 

• 
(class of 's6). See Sport­

• 
crafts, at the Sport cen­: ter. Just 4 miles north of 

• 
the campus on U.S. 31 

• 
North. 


~ Sportscrafts• 51400 US 31 N. 272-5300

·•' ••••••••••••••••••• 
About the death penalty, Gera­way. said," Some cdmes are so hideous that society should be expected to exact the ultimate penalty." He said the victim ,of a crime is seldom as protected as the criminal. 
Geraway lectured for 20 minutes, and answere questions for another hour. Most of the questions center­ed around his knowledge of organ­ized crime. 
The Mafia, Geraway empha­sized, is everywhere. He said organized crime controls many labor unions and can be involved in most anything concerning money. 
When asked about gun control, Gcraway said. "I don't think it can work. If a criminal wanted a hand gun he would have no problem getting a weapon at all." 
The Student Union Academic Commission sponsored the lecture. Jerry Hoffman, director of the academic commission, introduced Geraway. 
located in the Aerospace and 
Mechanical Engineering Labora­
tory (currently the Mechanical 
Engineering Laboratory). 

The administrative, departmen­
tal and faculty offices all will be 
moved to the new part of the 
building. The addition also will 
contain the new College library, 
board room, faculty lounge, audio­
visual learning center, computjng 
centers and some laboratories. • 
The building was designed so 
that all facilities needed by stud­
ents during the evening will be in 
one first floor area that can remain 
open while the rest of the building 
is secured. 

Construction costs will be par­
tially met with funds raised during 
the recent engineering building 
campaign. To date, more than $3 
million in cash gifts and pledges 
has been raised from alumni and 
friends of the College of Engineer­
ing. 

The total fund for the project is 
more than $4.5 million, including 
$1.5 million already accumulated 
by the University for engineering 
facilities. Most. of the money will 
go into new construction, according 
to Hogan, and remodeling of 
Cushing HaJI will be done later . 

Plans for the expansion are being 
handled by Ellerbe Architects/ 
Planners/Engineers of Blooming­
ton, Minn. 

Law school reps hold interviews 
Representatives from the Univer-. sities of Creighton, Akron and McGeorge (University of the Paci­fic) Law Schools will conduct inter­views on the Notre Dame campus next week. 
The Akron Law School represen­tative will hold interviews on Wed­nesday, Nov. 10. The Creighton and McGeorge Law Schools will hold their interviewing sessions on Monday, Nov. 8. Sign-ups for these interviews can be done \outside Room 101 in O'Shaughnessy Hall. 
Social Commission & 
Holy Cross Hall 
present 
SECOND CITY 
Sat. Nov. 6--7:30pm O'Laughlin Auditorium $1.50--Students & Faculty $2.50--General Admission 
Ticket sales begin MONDAY and are available through SMC Programming Office, 4176 

Opening soon, is now accepting applications from neat, well-groomed individuals. Positions available: hosts, hostesses, waitresses, wait­ers, bartenders, service assistants, cooks and dishwashers. 
52554 us 31 North 277-3766 
Equ'af Qpportumty Employer · 

Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, [seated] president of Notre Dame, and Dr. joseph C. Hogan, dean of the college of Engineering, examine an architect's rendering of the addition which will more than double the size of Notre Dame's Cushing Hall of Enginering. Plans are being handled by Ellerbe Architects/­Pianners/Engineers of Bloomington, Minn., and construction could start as early as january 1977. 
RECRUITMENT ANNOUNCEMENT 
HARVARD BUSINESS SCHOOL 
MBA PROGRAM 
James J. Foley, Associate Director of Admissions 
at Harvard University's Graduate School of Business Administration will be on campus 
Thursday, November 11, 1976 
to meet with students interested in the two-year MBA Program. 
Contact the 
Placement Office 
\ 

for more details and to s:ign up for an information session. 
Harvard Business School is committed to the principle of equal educational opportunity and"evaluates candidates without regard to race, sex, creed or national origin. 
LAST TIMES 
STARTS FRIDAY ... AMERICA'S MOST UNLIKELY HERO! 
"ONE OF THE YEAR'S BEST" Judith Crist, Sat. Review 
.~-"EXCITING" Rex Reed 
CBS Network 
Liz Smith Cosmopolitan 


·Jones named NL Cy Young winner 
--------------------------------~----~--..., 
Thursday, November 4, 1976 the observer 7
-=....:.______.:. 
Eastwick, reliever for the World Champion Cincinnati Reds, got six ­points; southpaw Matlack got five, 
J. R. Richard of the Houston Astros had two points and Seaver got one point. 
Four of the eight pitchers to receive points were left-banders. 
Jones sprinted to 16 triumphs in his first 19 decisions but fell sharply after the All-Star break to finish at 22-14. Koosman charged at the end to boost his record to 21-10, his first 20-victory season. 
Sutton-also  finished  with  21  
triumphs  in  his  first  20-victory  
season.  

Jones' faltering second-half performance had been caused by trouble with a nerve in the bicept~ tendon of his left arm. 
"I couldn't make a muscle," Jones recalled Tuesday, reflecting on his 6-11 finish. "The doctor said the nerve had been fatigued t<' the point that it wasn't working. Everything I had worked for for the last two years could have gone up in smoke. 



"I thought my career was over." 
When the season ended, "I went into the hosptial and really got frightened when they shaved both my arms." 
There was a possibility that tendons from his right arm would have to be transplanted to his left -­a procedure similar to the one survived by the Dodgers' Tommy John. 
Fortunately for Jones, that didn't prove necessary. "I was scared, but the operation went great. It took an hour and a half and it went great. The doctor said the arm is in 
Uhe' ll'inJjammer 
CREATIVE HAIR DESIGN FOR THE SEXES 
RElAXING ATMOSPHERE 

FREE HAm ANALYSIS RK RETAIL CENTER 

1637 LWW So. Bend 23? -6622 Appt. only. 

great shape for the amount of use it's had." 
That included 315113 innings pitched for the fifth-place Padres dth 25 complete games. Jones, in 40 games, struck out just 93 batters 
%Observer 
Sports 
Next year you could be on 
scholarship. 
An Air Force ROTC 2·year scholarship. Which not only pays your tuition, but also gives you $100 a month allowance. And picks up the tab for your books and lab fees, as well. 
And after college, you'll receive a commission in the Air Force... go on to further, specialized train· ing ... and get started as an Air Force officer. There'll be travel, responsibility, and a lot of other benefits. 
But it all starts right here ... in college ... in the Air Force ROTC. Things will look up ... so look us up. No obligation, of course. 
For information contact Capt. Davis, 283-6635. 
Put it altogether in Air Force ROTC• 
but walked only SO and compiled the league's sixth-best earned run average: 2. 74. 
Good enough for the Cy Young. "It was a feeling of great elation when I found out," he said. 
.. 
Notices  Lost & Found  Classified Ads  Need 2 GA Barna tickets. Need not be together. Call 289-1056.  GF: Tell me in advance!!!  
Having a Kegger? For free denvery ·& low prices call Chip 288-7878. Gay Hotline: Friday and Saturday 10:00 to 12:00 p.m. 283-8870. G.C.N.D. P.O. Box206 Notre Dame. Anyone interested in startin!l an Asian-American club call Cra1o at  Lost: Nickies parking lot "borrow­ers" of gym bag and back pack please return to 717 St. Louis Blvd. 233-3743. To the bstd. who stole Calif. license­plate 565 JMV I want it back!. Call 1747.  Need Alabama tickets somethin' fierce. Call Martha at 4819. -----.---L....­-----­DESPERATELY NEED GA and student Barna tickets. Call 1487. Need ONE tickets to Miami game.  Friend from there coming here? Well, some people like snow & ice and I need 1or 2 GA or student (with IDl Miami tickets. Dave 1173 5-7 p.m. or after midnight. For Sale  400 Kidnapped! One blind panda bear in the vicinity of St. Ed's Friday night. Family distressed. Negotiations can be worked out. Call 4-5392. REWARD: Lollipops. Help three "nuns" kick the hapit. 
8693. -Due to the time change, the Grey­hound Bus to Chicago will now leave  Lost: Sterling silver cross and chain at CC E or Cartier fields. Present from HTH. Reward. D.O.C. 1150.  Call Patty 4-4904. Will pay top dollar tor 2 Alabama GA tix. Call 8401.  Best offer. 1 BAMA ticket. Pat or Phil 8582. For Sale: Jitachi Receiver BSR Tum­ Call 5279 or 5166. If you can last it, we'll get blasted!! It should be fun, and quite a  
the Main Circle at 5 :45 every Friday. Call Tom at 8338 for seat reserva­tions and further info. Tickets for the November 11 Chi­ Lost: Camel hair jacket at Morris­sey's Campus View party last Satur­day night. Call Shannon 5150. reward.  Need 2 or 4 Alabama tickets. Call Claire 6833. 3 GA tix needed tor Alabama game.  table. $200. 233-2608. BOOK SHOP. Used Books. Students Paradise. Open Wed., Sat., Sun. 9-7. Ralph Casperson Books, 1303  . . gas, Before you're done, you'll be on .. your..... Campus View Kegger · ' o'clock, Firday night.  
cago Stadium concert with The Eagles, featuring Joe W a Ish, and John David Soutler are now on sale at the River City Review Ticket Outlets: Just for the Record (1 00  Lost: Black & brown mixed Shepard & Collie in area of Notre Dame & Angela. 4 mos., 25 lbs. Named Cleopatra. 287-77 40.  Call Bob 255-8660. Need 1 GA BAMA 288-5675.  ticket.  Tony  Buchanan Road. Niles, Mich. 683-2888. MEXICAN BELTS: finest leather belts available. Only 510.00 Call BIG  Bub Donnelly... Happy B day to a beer drinkin Boston man. I'd like to TICKLISH your fancy. Love. Chicago Pat  
Center) and Boogie Records (Col·lege Square). Accurate, fast typing. Mrs. Donoho 232-0746. Hours: 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. MORRISSEY LOAN FUND $20-150. 1 day wait. 1 percent interest. Due in 30 days. M-F 11:15-12:15. Bridge Group Interested in playin!l Bridge? Call Vini 288-7878 or Jay8431.  M will die if this is wrong, The thaime has come for El Kabong Vincente spoke to girl of Oz Meet me where the Bud Busch draws The legal age in Mich tor you A seven first is rendezvous Cluseau is panting on your trail An entrance thru his name won't fail So Loosen up, my virgin child cause Rodney, tonight's the Night!  Addressers wanted immediately! Work at home--no experience nec­essary--excellent pay. W.rite Ameri­can Service, Suite 132, Minne· apolis, Mn. 55426. Need 4 GA tickets for Alabama football oame. Have unlimited funds. Ca-ll Bob 1461. Need 5 Barna tickets! Please have pity! Call Lisa 1343.  MONEY MURF anytime at 234-8858 1969 Datsun Classic 1800. All new paint, tires, interior. Excellent cond­ition. Low milea<Je. $2000 or better. 272-3236. -For Sale: RCA Portable Stereo. $40. Call 62.64 or 6265. Car stereo: Crai<J 3511 FM Cassette receiver (excel.); Je,,sen 6X9 Co­axial speakers (br. new); Retail $168  To 225: I can't cope. 400 Gad, Not another one!! DETROIT CLUB PARTY Saturday, Nov. 6. 9:00 Campus View 54655. Apt. 203. Guests welcome! Kids, if you don't talk to me I can't type in good Personals. Come on. I  
Thanksgiving with the Notre Dame Credit Union (Nov. 24-28 ). See NO vs. USC complete trip 4 nights, 5 days $275.00. For more info call 283-6611. Due to circumstances beyond our  Lost: Calculator (SR 50A) between the circle and the Library on ND Ave. Thurs. night Oct. 28. Please return. Call Ben 233-4222. Wanted  Notre Dame 35 Alabama 0. Tom Clements. Wayne Bullock & Greg Collins need many Alabama GA fix. Call 3300 or 3315. One set dress-blues. Jacket 36, Pants 30-32. 272-2932 after 6 p.m.  asking $90. Andy 289-4790. MILLER HIGH LIFE AND MILLER LITE GOLF HATS, GOLF SHIRTS T·SHIRTS AND WINTER HATS FOR SALE. LOW PRICES. BOB 8361.  need material. G JD, You're not included in that last personal. You talk to me. Thanks! G Nose, Thanks for putting up with me when I'm down. I'll be better. Lipless  
control, the party at our house Saturday has o~en postponed. Sor­ry, y'all. Tes, Moon, Chip, Jungle  1 need GA Alabama dollar-Tim 1868.  tickets  -top  Need 2 Alabama tickets. Martha at 1715 or 2116.  Call  Red girl's Austrian ski boots . like new-size 6.5. $90.00 Call 4·5428.  Salami, Have you gotten your plate yet? G  
MIDWEST BLUES FESTIVAL STE· AN CENTER 7:30. FRIDAY 4.00, SATURDAY 5.00, ND·SMC FESTI­ Need 3 GA tix or 1 student and 2 GA to Miami. Call Betsy 4298 or Jim 1188.  Desperately need as many Alabama tickets as possible. ·Call Chris 272-1400.  '71 MG Midget. New top. 26,000 miles $1750. Call 289-4702. 1974 Toyota Corolla 5-speed. 18,000  Dear Guys, Just because I menlion your roommates doesn't mean I don't love you too. G  
VAL PASS 6.00 BE THERE! Notice: The residents of 1112 Corby announce the cancellation of their  Wealthy relatives need 2 GA Ala­bama tickets. Top dollar! Call Leo 3278.  Need 3 student Alabama tickets. Will pay SS. Call Jane 4427. Needed: One Barna ticket. Please  miles. Good condition! Call 272-2520 after 3 p.m. IBM SELECTRIC TYPEWRITER for  Dean Roemer, Heard of the vacancy in Sorin. Thouoht that we'd apply.Feel we could-enrich the MORAL  
bi-weekly parties for Nov. Thanks for coming-our aching helmets. 801 St. Louis-you're up! PRCS  Need 8 GA Alabama tix. Call Chris at 8336.  call Rob -6986. Needl!d: Two Chicago  concert  tic­ sale. Excellent condition. Call 7037.  fiber of the hall.  The Pangborn 5  
Need 4 fix for Chicago. Together If  kets. Call Ed at 683-7506.  Personals  
For Rent 3-room apt. Everything furnished, private bath, $100 per mo. Call 288-9533.  possible. Bob 287-9453. Faculty will exchange Miami for any 2 Alabama fix & pay additional price or will buy outright at any price. 1671 or 288-6366.  Desperately need 2 GA Alabama tickets. Call 4-5237. Two GA tickets to Alabama. Call Don 3697 or 8301.  Gee, Ray, we didn't even know the teams were pregnant. Is that what goes on in a massage parlor? Attention Badin, Lewis & Breen­Phillips girls without dates to their  Almond eyes, Bum me upLuckus Pelph Huh?  (my Turkish pearl) sweet oyster girl.  
RENT MY UPSTAIRS. $40 PER MONT.H. CL'OSE TO 'CAMPUS:'· =-~~~~~~~.:..:___:.~'.L___.··~:·, 1 I I I r f 1 f " •. 11 " •• ~ • ., •  Desperately need 3 GA Alabama tickets for parents & a priest. Call Stephanie 1364.  NEED SOMEONE TO DRIVE GIRLFRIEND FROM ALBANY TO NO & BACK FOR BAMA WEEK· -.· . &;ND.,<;~L,L. 81~ 1540.  respective formals. Eligible fresh­men men are now available at Alumni. 'Call 6251 for more intorma.­lion.  


the observer Thursday, November 4, 1976 
~------------~~------~---­
Improved coaching aids women's IH 
by Eileen O'Grady only five girls that had ever played to many of the men's teams i1e's ND Women's Sports Editor before," Elpers explained. "So we played on. "The girls were much had to completely re-do the whole smarter in learning plays, had 
-Now that the exciting women's offense and defense from last more compassion for their oppo­intcrhall football season has ended, year. nents, so they were less anamalis­many questions arise. Why was Most of the coaches had to tic. Their general attitude was there m.Jre interest and participa-• teach the girls everything. They more enthusiastic and more hard­lion this year? Why did the caliber instructed them how to line up. a working." of the game ihclf seem to improve? count. how to position their feet so Thomas found a real identity 
Whv wa., the race for the they wouldn't lose their balance while working with the team. He champion.,hip ~o much closer? and throwing and catching the ball. looked forward to all their practices 
Although there are many an­Teaching the backs to spin as they and actually put.on sweats and ran '''l'l"• to these questions, one is cut up the field. how to run with the the plays with them in practice. He "ltcn merlookcd. better coaching. flags instead of past them, and also enjoyed eating with the team 
Unknuwn to many. all six of the handing off were also basics which after each practice and game. \\omen·, tc;1ms had at least one were taught. "I couldn't study on the day of voach. while Lewis had three, and One of Farley's coaches, John a game,·' he claims. ''Already I Farley and Lvons had two. All of the Tartaglione, aiso enjoyed the miss those practices." ,·oadle'> were male. teaching aspect of the coaching. The coaches all agreed the 
For the· avnage sports fan. an ··A lot of the girls are really caliber of the game has improved, 
"lwiou., que.,tion comes to ;nind talented. and so I got a lot of even since the beginning of the here: Why would guys take such satisfaction from seeing them do sea!Kln. an active interest in girls' football? well," he stated. "We lost our first game to 
In polling some of the 10 Fr. Terrence Lally, Asst. Vice­Lewis on one 70 yard run," Thomas "·omen's coaches, the overriding President of Student Affairs, explained. "But towards the end IL''>ponse wa~ "for lhe fun of it." Walsh's only coach, took it up of the year. we beat them .not by
.. 
But all of them soon took it mainly for relaxation from his any long play butjust by successive 
v·riou.,lv. administrative duties. drives." 
Don. Bvrnc. Badin's coach for. He stressed how "bright" the Byrne noticed a drastic shift two vcars and Lewis' head coach girls arc: "I know they were good from a primarily passing attack to a for two year'>. stuck with it because from the beginning." he stated. "I more balanced game. He also he saw real value in the program. was really impressed with their commented that the caliber seems to 
.. 1 think it'., exciting for girls to discipline and ability to play to­improve when the girls play on the ha\T an opportunity to play in gether." astroturf. .,p,u·ts and not have the social 
Lally's philosophy was never to Father Lally commented on the Better coaching was a major reason 
.,tigrna often attached to it." "over-coach." Specifically he'd refereeing as a cause. "The in women's interhall this fall. 
Byrnt• stressed the biggest tell the girls: "Be positive. Don't officiating was good for the most f<tt'tor in his enthusiasm was the yell at anybody. Don't push them part. Thts made for a really sane really found women's inter hall a or female, might contact these halls .~irl'> themselves. ''All these girls beyond what they can do and go out attitude among the girls." challenge and fun to be a part of . next fall, since 7 out of 10 of these really wanted to play." he added. there and have some fun." In any case all these coaches Interested would-be coaches, male present coaches are ~eniors. l'his is evidenced by the fact that In general, Lally thought the l.cwis again had 60 girls go out for girls' games to be more interesting the team this year. than the men's to watch. "They 
NFL evaluates holding penalti~s
Out of necessity, Byrne took on were more patterned, expecially 
an assistant coach last year to help the quarterbacks," he remarked. by Hal Bock crease in penalties. go's Wally Chambers said, "I think with Lewis. Brian Elpers. Al­"You'd see double reverses, AP Sports Writer ''The defense constantly they are calling more holding though Elpers was not as experi­passes out to the corner, and long screams about being held," he because of illegal use of the hands. enced in the actual playing of passes on fourth and long yardage, The regulation is stated simply and said. "They're really searching Because the offensive linemen are football as some of the other instead of just barrelling up the clearly in the National Football and looking more than in the past.'' allowed to put their hands away coaches, Byrne saw an advantage middle,'' Lally continued. League rule book. Then Hanifan suggested that the from the body now, I slap and then in this. He could more easily get Lyons' head coach, Steve problem lies with defensive line­go around him. 
It says: "A runner may ward off If he shoves me on across the fundamentals of football Thomas gained quite a bit of opponents with his hands and arms men who don't do their job and the side, it's illegal. If they take to the girls. pleasure from the whole thing. His but no other player on offense may alibi that the reason is because the away the defensive head slap, you 
Elpers found this the most team still refers to him as "coach," use hands or arms to obstruct an offense is holding. take away 90 percent of the exciting thing about coaching the or "hon' ... and they gave him a opponent by grasping with hand, Speaking for the defense, Chica-defensive charge." women: the challenge of teaching "Lyons' hall football coach" jer­pushing or encircling any part of 
them the fundamentals. all the way sey. He claims the whole experi­his body during a block." to the finer points, and seeing them ence "really made my semester. I Then it continues with a discus­Lacrosse Club defeats UMdo so well. can't wait till next year." sion of pass blocking, saying in "Out of the more than 60 girls Thomas specifically noted three part: "The hands must be cupped The Notre Dame Lacrosse Club Clynes. Supplementing thesethat came out this year. we had things about the girls as compared and inside
or closed remain the travelled to Ann Arbor Saturday to efforts were single tallies by Billy
blocker's ,elbow and inside the compete against the defending Sammon, Mike Caron, Roger
Tony Pace &::."!:========================~===:~=====·=·===================:====:======================:~:=:=:=~==;:====-=::~ 
frame of the bodies of both the midwest club champions, the 
Monforton, co-captain Bobbyblocker and his opponent." Wolverines of Michigan. The Irish, Driscoll and Tom Bingle.In other words: No holding. playing in a constant downpour , The defense also turned in a
Baseball's· Auction 

There was no change in that rule captured a 9-7 victory. stellar performance as Rich Mazzei 
this season. But ,'iUddenly, offen­The teamwork of the stickmen and Jimmy Scarola combined to sive linemen have been playing in a proved to the the key to the upset. thwart numerous Michigan scoring sea of yellow penalty flags. Most of Evidence of this team play was the opportunities in goal.
the calls have been for holding. balance scoring attack as seven The fall season concludes Two Sundays ago, the Oakland Irish players dented the scoring Sunday, with a game against aFor the baseball establishment. today is D-Day; at 10:00 A.M. in New Raiders played the Green Bay column. Leading this assault with perennial rival. the ChicagoYork's Plaza Hotel. baseball's first ever free agent re-entry draft will Packers and officials called 34 two goals apiece were midfielder Lacrosse Club. The game will be atbe conducted. 
penalties, 17 against each club. Jay Williams and attackman Pat 1 p.m. at Stepan Field.
Since the days of Curt Flood, the baseball players have been 

''There were more flags than at 
attempting to free themselves from the shackles of the reserve clause. 
the United Nations," cracked Raid­
This clause, which bound players to their teams for as long as the team ers Gene who
guard Upshaw.

desired, has finally been discarded. 
Irish crew members return
attracted his share of yellow hand­
After much hassling. the_ owners and the players agreed to replace 
kerchiefs for holding . 

the reserve clause with a re-entry draft. What is a re-entry draft? It is 
"Funny," continued Upshaw. 
from major Boston regatta
the vain attempt of the owners to limit the free market system. The 24 
"I've done the same things ·for 
plavers eligible for this draft all played this past season without a 
eight years, but for the past three '>igncd contract. . weeks, they've been illegal." by Dan Prebish The varsity lightweight eight
Because of this, they are now free agents and their negotiation That's just not so, according to Sports Writer turned in a better time than in their rights may be selected by up to twelve teams in today's draft. Once the 
Art McNally, the NFL's supervisor 16th place finish last year, but still 
draft is completed. the player is free to talk money with any of the clubs of officials. "There hasn't been a Irish men's and women's crews placed only 26th. Women's rowingthat choose him plus his former club. change in the interpretation or placed 13th and 26th respectively is improving fast, and crews had to 
For the pla~·crs. the almight dollar sign is flashing. Stars like Reggie • working of the rule," he said. in a major national regatta on row a full minute bettet than 1st Jackson. Bobbv Grich and Dave Cash should command enormous "But in our grading of films October 17th. The Head of the year to make the top 15. The Irish .,.,]aries. Even the lesser players should see some financial gains. The everyweek, we noticed a lot of Charles Regatta in Boston, Massa­have one of the top women's crews plavcrs w.ill also be able to chose their working conditions. The glamor uncalled holding and we called that chusetts, attracts both quality and in the Midwest, having captured,·itics and the contending teams should be favorite stops. In short, the to the attention of our officials." quantity. Over 500 crews partici­the Midwest Sprints title at Madi­pla~·crs finall~· have their freedom. When word went out from the pated in the various events, includ­son, Wisconsin, two of the last 
As for the owners. that baudy confederation of millivnaires, the league office, the results were ing some of the top competition in three years. They also captured a >.t·arch for baseball talent should resemble a pre-med's lusting for immediate. The flags started the country. second place finish at the Eastern grades. Yes. it will be cut throat. No owner would want his team's · flying. "Nobody's been able to _ The "Head" is a distance·race, Sprints in Worcester, Massachu­f.u1s to think that he did not try to land at least on of the top free agents. play a decent game since," said covering a winding three-mile setts last year. 
The fans would question the owner's sincerity· and the turnstyles Upshaw. course upstreem on the Charles Both crews will begin workouts in .... nuld become rusty. The competition has already begun. Ted Turner, The Raiders have lost a league­River. Men's races usually cover a January in preparation for the the bombastic owner of the Atlanta Braves, has made overtures to San high 663 yards thoroughlpenalties 2000-meter course, about 1114 spring season. They will be out on ;::rancisco outfielder Gary Matthews. George Steinbrenner of the in the first eight weeks of the miles and women's 100 meters. the water six days a week at 5 a.m., r"ankees \vas seen talking to Jackson during the divisional playoffs. season. They've been penalized 71 · The men's varsity heavyweight as soon as the ice "clears from the St fhis wining and dining should be rather humorous. times, second only to Tampa Bay's eight-oared shell was clocked at Joe River in March. 
But what about the fans? They are last and certainly least in the 77. 16:33 to make the top third in the Schedules include Purdue, Neb­nind~ of both the owners and the players. There will most certainly be "The linemen don't know what field of forty headed by the Coast raska, and the Mid-America ncreased ticket prices. No owner will absorb the increased cost of they're supposed to do or what Guard Academy. Boats were championships at Marietta, Ohio. 1igher player salaries, he will pass them on to the fans. they're not," said Oakland coach started at ten second intervals and The men will close their season with 
But the asthetic loss will probably exceed the monetary loss. John Madden. "The things they've were individually computer-timed. the Dad Vail Regatta at Philadel­:·cams will not spend the money to develop younger players in the done are now called holding_ This "race against the clock" phia and hope to send a crew to the 11inor leagues. they will simply buy the players that they need in the They've become confused and frus­feature, along with the difficult Intercollegiate Rowing Association ree agent market. This is what I don't like. Talented men such as Bob trated.'' course, makes the event a speciai championships. The women, ·lowsam of the Reds will not be in as great demand as before. Teams Jim Hanifan, offensive line trial of the coxswain's ability to meanwhile, are planning . strong 1 ill be bought, not developed. For me at least, this takes away some of coach of the St. Louis Cardinals, steer as well as the· oarsman's finishes at the Midwest and Eas­he lustre of the game. blames the defenses for the in-ability to row. tern Sprints. 









