
Mixed emotions dominate opinions of 8 a.m. exams 

by Katie Kerwin Senior Staff Reporter 
Student reaction to 8 a.m. exam­inations is mixed, and the strongest opposition to the plan comes from faculty members involved in the schedule change. 
Student Body President Mike Gassman rep-orted that he has had "some complaints, but not a large number." Pat Tack, Student Government Academic Com­missioner. commented that she has "not heard a lot either way," but added that the remarks about the exam time change she has heard have included fa~orable comments as well as negative ones. 
Fr. James T. Burtchaell, Uni-
ERRATUM 
If a stude11t has a complaint about either exam scheduling or an 
· unfair curve on a test. he should contact the Provost or the Student Government Academic Commis­sion. and not the Oftice of Student Affairs. as reported in Tucsdav's 
· versity Provost, announced last April that exams formerly given in the evening would now be sched­uled at 8 a.m. on Tuesdays and Thursdays. 
The Faculty Senate last Thurs­day approved. a resolution that the Academic Council suspend the current exam-scheduling policy until a studv can be made of acultv and student reactions. · ­
Eight o'clock exams do not involve a large number of profes­sors, said Prof. James Danehy, chairman of the Faculty Senate, but the policy has "caused consider­able dissatisfaction among the faculty affected." 
Daneh~-enumerated his own reasons for opposing the exam schedule changes. Location becomes a problem. he said. Until this year, Danehy gave tests in the North Dining Hall, but. he pointed out. that is not possible at ts a.m. 
Reduction of time is another short-coming of the new system. Danehy said. Students felt less pressured at evening exams which were open-ended. he expi.• ined. Danehy was also concerned that the two hours allotted on Tuesdav and Thursdav would not be ade­quate for all-the exafns a student might have. He also noted that. because of the earlv-morning exams, it wiU not be pos~ible to schedule Tuesda'-Thursda v classes until 9:30 a.n{. · 
The new exam sl·hedule ha~ "never been promulgated"" or called to the attention of all concerned bv anv written m>tire Danehy obs~rved·. He ~ug~ ,ted claritication of which tc~t~ the rule~ apply for. and whether the in­tended duration of the exam i'> )(I or 60 minutes. 
·"The bcultv should ha\l· a voice." '>aid Pr~>f. Jame~ l{ohin~"n of the Engli-,h department and ,, member of the Facult' Senatl·. "The administration ~hould kn"'' how affected facult\ kel... rhl· ,·acuity Senate ''eni on rel·onl la-r April as affirming the right of the faculty of a department to Sl't i-, own exam sd1cduk. 
The Exeruti\T C<>mmitt<"<" <'I thl· Academic Coun,·il di-,. ""'·d the exam schedule I;''' .c·ar. (ja,,man said. and dl'. i<kd t" kt it ~tand for a year. Ga"man \\<I~ a ml·mhn of 
!continued to page bl 
Hesburgh announces Provost reappointment 
by Bob Mader Executive News Editor 
University President Fr. Theo­dore Hesburgh spoke yesterday about his responsibility to trustees. faculty. and students in his annual addre~s to the faculty in Washing­ton Hall. 
In his opening remarks. Hes­burgh noted that the Provost Review Committee appointed by the Academic Council has unani­mously recommended that Fr. James T. Burtchaell be reap­pointed Provost. Hesburgh said he will follow the recommendation. 
Hesburgh also commented on problems facing private universi­ties such as inflation and rising faculty salaries, student interest in vocational training rather than arts and letters and a decline in building. Notre Dame does not face many of the problems other private schools do, Hesburgh said, but the university is still burdened financially. 
The President noted that last spring Blue Cross/Blue Shield raised their rates for Notre Dame by $200,000 and the University is presently operating $462,000 in the red because of salary increases. 
The bulk of Hesburgh's remarks concerned his 25 years of experi­ence as president and thoughts on leadership in general. 
A university president, like any president, has broad and diverse constituencies which cannot all be pleased at once, Hesburgh said. Quoting Clark Kerr, former chan­cellor of the University of Califor­nia, "The university president in the United States is expected to be a friend of the students, a colleague of the faculty, a good fellow with the alumni a sound administrator with the trustees... " He must also enjoy ·traveling by plane, eating meals in public, and attending public ceremonies. The president drew laughter when he com­mented, "he must also have the stomach of a goat." 
Hesburgh credited his sanity and equilibrium to following the advice Fr. John J. Cavanaugh, the last University President, gave him 25 
years ago when Hesburgh assumed the presidency: the heart of 
administration is making decisions. 
Cavanaugh told him. and the suc­
cessful administrator must make 
the decision he feels is right. 
Hesburgh said. 
"The only guide to a man is his 
cons.:ience. The onlv shield to his 
memory is the rectftude and sin­
cerity of his actions." Hesburgh 
stated. The president stressed that 
the administrator cannot make the 
easiest or most popular decision. 
Cavanaugh warned Hesburgh 
that being president is a thankless 
job. "Don't expect a lot of praise 
or plaudits for what you do. If you 
need continual compliments to 
sustain you, you are in for a great 
surprise and a letdown ... ", Cava­
naugh told him. 
The past president also advised 
Hesburgh to gather the best help 
he could find around him. "I 
remember after hearing this, pick­
ing the five best people available 
and making them all vice-presi­
dents," Hesburgh recalled. ''They 
saved my life more times than I like 
to remember." 
Cavanaugh finally advised him to 
be human. Presidents who fail. 
Hesburgh noted, do so because 
they lack humanity and lose the 
respect of those around them. 
Hesburgh sees his three primary 
constituencies as being the trus­
tees, faculty and students. 
The trustees are the most impor­
tant of all the consituencies, Hes­
burgh said, because they set the 
basic policies of higher education. 
The president will have to some­
times oppose the trustees on basic 
policy. The president must resist 
when the trustees interfere with 
administration, Hesburgh said. 
The President also stated that 
trustees sometimes must be re­
minded that they represent the 
corporation and must take a defi­
nite stand. 
"All in all, this has not been in 
my experience a difficult relation­
ship, even though the president is 
always in the middle between the 
trustees and the rest of the 
institution,·' Hesburgh remarked. 
Educationally. the faculty are the most important part of the univer­. sity and make it what it is, Hesburgh continued. The presi­
[ continued to page 3] 
Vol. XI, No. 32 
Observer poll shows Ford favored by NO students 
OBSERVER POLL RESULTS 
I)  Who do  you  Ford  Carter  McCarthy  Undecided  
presently favor in the Presidential  45  36  18  
election?  

2) Who do you Ford Carter Undecided Did not watch think won the first or draw (no opinion) debate? 55 10 27 
8 
3) Who do you Ford Carter Undecided Did not watch think won the sec-or draw (no opinion) ond debate? 9 56 27 
8 
Yes No Maybe N.A.
4) Have the de­
5
bates changed the 
10 78 7 
way you will vote? 
5) Are you regis-Yes No 
tered to vote? 
90 10 
If so, at home or in Indiana? 
Home Indiana •ndiana as resident 
59 27 4 
Jn indt>pendl•nt studPnl ne"sp.tpl'r Sl'rlling notre dJml' Jnd st. m.tr~ '., Wednesday, October 13, 1976 
decided. 
These statistics are slightly dif­ferent from the results of the poll taken Oct. S and 6 by the ND-SMC Democrats for Ford. That poll showed Ford receiving SO percent. Carter 25 percent. McCarthv 4 percent, other candidate!> 2 per­cent. and 19 percent remaining undecided. 
Carter, Ford Split Debates 
Fifty five percent of those questioned thought Ford won the first televised debate. while onlv ten percent thought the former Georgia governor won. The second debate results saw an almost exact reversal of figures as 56 percent thought Carter won. compared to nine percent who thought the President won. In both the first and second debates. 27 pen·ent of those polled either thought the debates were a draw or were undecided about who won.' Another eight percent did not watch or had no opinion on either the first or second debates. 
Only ten percent felt the debates had changed the way they origin­ally had intended to vote. while 78 percent felt the debates had not made any difference to their vote. 
Ninety percent registered to vote 
Of those polled. fifty nine per­cent are registered in their home state to vote. Twenty seven percent are out-of-state students registered in Indiana while four percent are registered residents of Indiana. Ten percent of those questioned are not registered to vote in the upcoming election. 
by Gregg B. Bangs Political Editor 
Forty five percent of Notre Dame undergraduate students currently favor Republican incumbent Gerald Ford in the upcoming presidential elections according to an exclusive Observer poll. 
The results of the random tele­phone survey. which was con­dut'ted Oct. II and 12. show that 36 percent of those polled support Democratic Presidential nominee Jimmy Carter. one percent are for independent Eugene McCarthy, and eighteen percent remain un­
2 the observer Wednesday, October 13, 1976 
---News Briefs--­
r-=======::=::::-:==========-======International China to uphold detente 
PEKING-The reported arrest of Mao TseHung's widow and other leaders of the radical wing of the Chinese CQ¥lmunist party represents. if true. a ·victory for the moderates and a reaffirmation of China's policy of detente with the United States and the West. It also could mean in the long run tentative moves in Peking to improve relations with the Soviet Union, which have been seriously strained since 19So because of ideological differences. 
:------=-=~~::-:-::::==============::National 
Watergate convictions upheld, 
WASHINGTON -The U.S. Court of Appeals yesterday upheld the Watergate cover-up convict_ions of t~rcc of former President Ridtanl M. Nixon· s closest aides but granted a new trial for onetime Nixon ,·ampaign assistant Robert C. Mardian. 
./-On Campus Toda~'-....... 
lHJ pm seminar, "corridor fire spread" by dr. james qurntiere, u s dept. of commerce, national bureau of standards rm 303 engineering bldg. 
\ lO pm computer course, "vsbasic" rm 115 computer science building 
4 lO pm lecutre, "in vitro assay for cyclophosphamide cvtox1city on rat prostrate adenocarcinoma cells" by dr l hit>nkuo fred chang, n.d. galvin aud. coffee at 4 1'i 
'i:1S pm mass, for all fasters, sponsored by hunger coal ition, walsh hall 
7 pm meeting, young democrats, rm 2.d Iafortune 
7 pm meeting, mecha, all mexican-american undergrads mvJtPd, library lounge 
7 pill informative talk, swine flu vaccine, by joel burian, lewis rec room 
7 pm meeting, photo club, 204 o'shag 
7 lO pm film, "my country and my people" chinese cultural film of china's foreign problems in the 30's. library aud. 
8 pm performing arts series, vermeer string quartet, columbia artists with samuel ashkenazy and pierre nwnard, violin; nabuko imai, viola, and marc' John~on, cello. o'laughlin aud. tickets $3.50 gPneral, $2 00 students 
8 pm aauw meeting, rm 147, madeleva memorial 
filS pm concert, roger scanlan, tenor, american song. library aud. · 
9 pm concert, nd jazz quintet and big band, nazz-lafortune 
Senior trip list grows 
by Mike Miller Oct. 15. Staff Reporter There are still40 seniors who did not pay their balance due last week 
A waiting list for juniors eligible and who are presently being con­to go on the Senior Trip to Southern tacted to confirm that they do not California will be posted in the wish to make the trip. 
· Student Activities Office at the Tfte committee urged students Lafortune Student: Center on not wishing to make the trip who Tuesday, Oct. 26, according to the have paid the balance due to trip committee. contact the Student Activities 
The Senior Trip Committee an­Office. The balance will be nounced that 685 of the 704 refunded but not the original {)penings for the trip have been deposit. The committee pointed filled bv students from both St. out that this would be better than Mary's and Notre Dame. showing up at the airport and not 
The balance due for juni{)fs able being able to board the plane to go will be collected on Wedned­because proper identification was day. Oct. 27 following midsemester not supplied. Thus the student break. would lose the total value of the 
The committee warned that it is trip. illegal for a student to purchase a Special arrangements will be package and sell it to another made for any student who is student. Any student who at­correctly signed up for the trip who tempts to sell their ticket for the has a defective identification card-­trip. will have their identification one that does not have a photo­cards closely checked with the graph of the student--by the de­master list at St. Joseph's Airport parture date. immediately before boarding the plane to California. 
I ht· Oh"''"'' "puhl"h"d Mond.tv throu~h I fldd\ dnd WPP~Iy dunng
The Senior Trip Committee an­
tlw 'urnnwr "'''.ron. !'XI Pp! durmg
nounced that special arrangements 
thP P\,Jill <~nd Vdldllon pPnod' ThP have been made with NBC Studios 
Obwr wr" publl';ht>d b\ qudt>nh ol for the students to attend a taping 
tbP Llnlw'r"t\ ol NotrP DdmP and 'St Mdry·' CoiiPgP SulN r~pllon-.
session of the "Tonight Show" 
nldV bt> purrhasPd tor $20 [Wr Vf'dr
during their stay in California. To 
. ($10 pPr SPrn<"i!Pr) from T bp Ob~Pr­
confirm reservation, the student 
VPr. Box Q. NotrP DanH'. lndldna must make a check for $1.50 
46556 SPcond clas' postagP pa1d, payable to NBC Studios. The check · 
Notrt> Danw. lnd1ana 46556 ThP Obo;Prvt>r 15 a rnPmbPr of the
must be turned in to Mike Miller at 
Ao;<;orratPd PrPSS All rPproduct1on
The Observer office on the fourth 
nghh arP rt>wrvPd
floor of LaFortune before Friday, 
f 
L_.~-­
States suspend vaccines 
Associated Press 
Less than two weeks after it began, the nationwide swi~e flu vaccination program was sus­pended in five states yesterday after the deaths of three elderly persons who took the flu shots in Pennsylvania. 
All three died from heart attacks within hours of receiving the shots, said Allegheny County Coroner Cyril Wecht, but what caused the heart attacks was not known. 
The two women and a man who died, all in their seventies, had histories of heart or lung problems and their deaths could have been caused simply by the stt"ess of getting the inoculations:, Wecht said. 
Both federal and local officials emphasized that there was no evidence directly linking their deaths to taking the flu shots. 
Nonetheless. health officials in Wisconsin, Louisiana, Vermont, Maine and New Me.xico halted the vaccination program in their states. 
In addition, New York and Michigan suspended use of the vaccine from the lot used in 

Pittsburgh. where the people who 
HPC unanimously approved a resolution defining itself last night. See
died were inoculated Monday. 
related story on page 7. (Photo by Tony Ch ifari)
Health officials in Allegheny 
County said the vaccine in question was produced by Parke Davis & Co. NOTRE DAME-SAINT MARY'S THEATRE of Detroit. New York State Health ANNOUNCES TRYOUTS suspended use of vaccine lot 
FOR 
A913339A from Parke Davis, say­ing it was the lot used in Pitts­
A DELICATE BALANCE 
burgh. A Parke Davis spokesman said 
by Ec;lward Albee ,
the company had distributed more than eight million doses of vaccine Tues. Oct. 12 & Wed. Oct. 13--7:30 p.m. Uttle Theatre and confirmed that some of it had 
Callbacks Oct. 14-7:30p.m.-O'Laughlin
been shipped to Allegheny County. Officials at the federal Center for Audition information available in SpeechDisease Control, which is running the government's $135 million 
and Drama Office Rm. 110, Moreau Hall, Saint Mary's 
swine flu program, said there were no plans for a nationwide curtail­ment of the effort to vaccinate up to 200 million against swine flu. 
The center, in Atlanta, did 

dispatch two doctors to Pittsburgh Several easy chairs, bars, trunks, sofas, chests 
to investigate fhe deaths. A1 -r spokesman said they were sent ''to 
of drawers and other items remain unclaimed 
assure ourselves that this was just 
a coincidence." . from Student Union Summer Storage.
There have been no reports from anywhere in the country of deaths If owners wish to continue owning these items 
or serious reactions directly attri­butable to taking the swine flu 
they should pick them up at Stepan Center.
shots, said Don Berreth, the spokesman for the center. 
Wednesday, Oct. 13 or Thurs., Oct. 14
r*The Observerl 
Call Services Commission at 283-6244 
Night Editor: Thomas O'Neil Asst. Night Editor: Frank Kebe layout Staff: Rosemary Mills 
Editorial layout: John Murphy Sports layout: Paul Steven­son Typists: Anne Giere, Joan Martel, Mary McCormick, Mel Celeste Night Controller: Don Roos Day Editor: Joe Cill Copy Reader: Pat Cole Photographer: Tony Chifari Writer of the Week: Jack 
lizzolato 
J 
/)t~/ 
Introductory Presentation on the 
TRANSCENDENTAL MEDITATION PROGRAM 
7:30pm 
Wednesday Oct. 13 O'Shaughnessy Hall rm. 109 
everyone invited admission free 
EXCLUSIVE AT VAN HORNE'S THE "!44" 
Brilliant 144 Cut Diamond
The unique "144" is the world's most scintitlatin<J diamond. Stop in and see for yourself. 
ALL ABOUT DIAMONDS 
Our Helpful "Blue Book" Buying a dia,mond for the first time? Or even thinking about it in the next few months? Now is the time to stop in and get your first comprehensive information about these beautifully 'mysterious gems. We will be happy to show you a selection of qualities from our fine stock and explain the subtle points that establish the per carat price of every diamond. Also, pick up your free copy of the American Gem Society's helpful 36 page booklet on "Diamonds" which gives accurate information on' grading and pricing. No obligation, of COUrSe. Stop in SOOn ! MEMBER AMERICAN GEM SOCIETY 
Oil.lJJWJuiJ '-1tlltdlfs:-JeialnJ
V.~.t~Pz~~f:{( Co. 
234-2919 
Wednesday, October 13, 1976 the observer 
Paczesny halts hockey coverage 
ND asserts control over student media~ 
b p Hanlf 
~ •:.uEdtan. 
to tor 
D . . d . . . . h 
"b m~;rsfttWy SaNDmtmds~ratto~ ts t e oss o ra to statton and
d . b d h k ~:nhorUe~ttn~tto hroa ca~ 0~ ey ~ t e mver~tty c 0?~es, [0· ust daczes~y.' vtce:rest e~ or stu­
e~~a a~s, sat >'e~te\ ay. , h 'd e~ p~ys_ ts tn c ar~~· e
1
~at . e pnnctpa, ~ccor mg to s:~~~=J~. also apphes to the 
Paczesny stressed that the Uni­versity owns WSND and pays most of its operating costs. He com­pared himself to a movie producer, who. because he provides-the money. can give orders to the director. "I am student affairs," Paczesny remarked. WSND is subordinate to the office of student affairs. Therefore he is the station's "boss." and stated he was willing to cut off funds for WSND and fire the staff if the station went ahead and ran the hockey games. 
Paczesny also stressed his inter­vention was not standard pro­cedure. "The primary reason for establishing WSND-FM is to have a fine-arts station." he said. "You can'.t convince me that hockey is a fine art." 
Paczesny said he only intervened in WSND's programming decision to keep the station consistent with its original principles. He cited a 1972 report from the station· s staff to the Officers of the University which stated, "WSND has as its primary goal to provide the highest quality serious music broadcast and educational materials it can obtain ... '' 
R d' h S h 1 h' h
egar mg t e c o ast1c, w tc is alos owned and paid for by the University, Paczesny explained that he would only intervene in its content if extreme "bad taste" and "ugliness" of attitude were shown, and if attempts at rational discus­
sion w_ith t_he editors fa~~~~-The magazme ts free to cnttctze the administration as long as it uses good tast and humorous critiques. 
Dom · Fanuele, WSND station manager, believes that Paczesny was acting on orders from super­iors. particu.Jarly Fr. Burtchaell. university provost, to stop hockey coverage. John Foster, • a staff member of WSND who spoke to Burtchaell on FM hockey coverage. said that Burtchaell told him the Universitv could interfere with progamn;ing anytime. Foster said he received the impre-ssion that the decision was made among Fr. Hesburgh. Burtchaell and Fr. 
.Joyce. the official station license-
holder. "I was not acting under any orders from higher up. Paczesny maintained. Burtchaell. when asked about the subject. refused to comment. 
The problem began two weeks into the semester. Fanuele said, when WSND learned that no 
Glee Club plans to tour over upcoming break 
By Jack C. Silhavy Staff Reporter 
Instead of traveling home to see 
parents or traveling to see the 
country. the Notre Dame Glee Club 
will encounter a lot of hard work 
over fall break. Buses will take 
them over 2.400 miles to sing nine 
concerts in ten davs. 
Forty-four memhers of the Glee 
Hesburgh relates leader qualities 
[continued from page 1] 
dent is their leader and he must prove himself to the faculty daily. The-president noted that he must .have vision i order to lead the faculty anywhere. "If a president cannot intelligently discuss educa­tion with his faculty. nothing else he discusses will matter.·· Hes-
burgh said. . 
Hesburgh said that faculty and administrators should work to understand each others jobs and roles in the university structure. "I could understate the situation by saying that administrators should mainly administer and professors should mainly teach," Hesburgh said. The jobs of either become complicated and are hindered when either intrudes upon the other, he said. 
Students are the main reason 
institutions exist and in that sense 
a most importalJl constituency, he 
said. While their need and de~ires 
do not always coincide with those of 
the trustees and the faculty, they 
too. must be heard, the president 
said. 
The students have reacted well 
to the new freedoms given to them 
after the revolution of the 1960's 
and have served well .on university 
councils, Hesburgh commented. 
·'The greatest gift a president can give his students is the example of his life," he said. "He must be a kind of super professor to all the students." 
The university president must,. by example, teach the students to be concerned about "the larger less favored world around them," Hesburgh concluded. 
Club will leave Friday for Youngs­town. Ohio where they will spend the night. The Glee Club does not sing in Youngstown but leaves for the New England states where it sings all this break's concerts. 
"It's a pretty heavy trip, at least by our standard~.·· said Mark PrilL assistant publicity manager. about the number of concerts. ·'The Glee Club usually has a much lighter load on tour." he explained. 
All of this year's contracts were worked out before school this year. showing the great demand the singing group is in. Contacts near the concert sights have also indica­ted most of the concerts are already close to sold out, so the men will be 
-singing to ··a capacity crowd,'· Prill noted. Most of the fall break concerts will be to Notre Dame Clubs in the area of to benefit groups. Students living in the areas of he concerts are urged by the Glee Club to come and support the singers. "We have the wiJest variety of songs to appeal to everybody," Prill said. The group features four acts at present in which j) few members have developed their own dances to the music. 
As a full choir. the Glee Club sings five types of songs: l a selection of madrigals; sea chant­ies including "Shenandoah;" sa­cred music, some of which is written by -Isele; some rowdy numbers including "Drinking Song" from Stude,.t Prince; and a medley of fight songs; arranged by Isele. which includes Notre Dame's own fight song. 
The Glee Club will use a similar program in its first concert on campus. This concert is scheduled for 8: 15, Wednesday, October 27 in Washington Hall. Admission will be free. 
Cars must move .for Oregon game 
All cars in the south parking lot will receive notices to move their vehicles to the green field lot for the Oregon football game from today until Friday, according to the Department of Security. After the game students are asked to please put their vehicles back in the assigned lots. 
commercial station was planning to cover the hockey games. WSND­FM has covered some games for the past six years, last year reporting at 34 of 37 games. When 
h · · h d
no ot er statton wts e to cover hockey this year. Fanuele and Ted Robinson. station sports director, though WSND might take this over as a community service. 
Two faculty members, according 
to Fanuele, sent letters to the administration attacking sports coverage on the FM station. 
Fanuele talked to Paczesny about the letters and Paczesny said he would look into the matter. 
Paczesny replied in a letter of Oct. I in which he quoted the 1972 report to the officers and concluded "requesting that you (WSND) dis­continue the practice" of covering hockev. 
Fan"uele took this statement literally as a request. and con­tinued to look into the matter. "I thought Bro. Just had mtsmter­preted the station's report," Fanuele explained. 

But according to Fr. Terry Lally, ~t-""--'-...-....£...."::::::;:::;:::~=======:::::=:::=-:-..::....~-=:....oc~f
associate vice-president for student I' affairs. "the difficultv seems to be in the interpretation of the letter. Relying on Bro. Just's later clarifi­cation, it seems that his 'request' was a polite w.ay of ordering WSND to quit covering hockey." 
Paczesny, according to a state­ment made last night, took Fanuele's continuing to investigate the matter as a "threat" to defy the ultimate authoritv of the Universitv over programming. It was in response to this "threat" that he passed word to the station that 
BARBERS & HAIRSTYLISTt-5 0 FULL SERVICE ~ 
~ONtsEx sHoP~ ~(.) 
s.?,i-0" ~~ ~o 
<. '-o~ z>oll.
.?.? 'It-:::>~ 
Vlo
'9p 'c-~. , w ~ 
s> ~ ~Vl w 
<i_, j ~a: :::> <! 
u.. Ill 
their budget and station manager ( 
were in jeopardy if they persisted. 
In response to Paczesny's state­
ment, WSND has backed down. In 
an editorial board meeting last · · h h t' d d
mg t. t e sta ton agree to rop 
any plans to run hockev on FM. 
Fanuele still maintains: however. 
that "the original decision was 
justified." He denies that he was 
ever trying to "challenge Bro. 
Just" and slill objects to the 
Univer~ity's i?t.erference in pro­
grammmg dectswns. 
John Phelan. Scholastic editor. 
also strongly objected to Universitv 
content control. "Student Affair~ 
does not and should not have am 
particular control over the 
Scholastic's content. I object to the 
frame of mind that the University i~ 
giving us money as a favor. If thi~ 
is really a place for broad learning 
then student activities arc a nece~­
sary party of it. 
"To usc financial power to 
c~mtrol these student activities is 
an attempt to control student 
thought." he said. 

THE OUTPOST 
ANNOUNCES: 
REP NIGHT 

THIS THURSDAY, OCT. 14, AT 7:30P.M. 
Factory representatives will be on hand tq answer any questions about ski equipment. 
REFRESHMENTS ~ fQOSt WILL BE SERVED ~Ca'npany 
U.S. 31 N (near N. Village Mall, Roseland 
1702 s. Michogan, South Bend, tn'd_ 
~'), 1807 Lincolnway East, South ~ bend, Ind. 
r~--=-~:,
, , -' -~ I 710 W. McK onley,~Mishawaka, tnd. 
~ 

OFFER/ EXPIRES OCTOBER 29th 
Get 2 SUPER Arhy'~ 
REGULAR S1 19 one get the S~'ronci for 
69c 
l1m1t 2 oer COUPON Coupon expires Oct. 29th 

Get 2 SUPERArby's 
REGULAR S1  1S  
CHIC  ·­ Ql't thP Sl'·  ,'lei fn,·  
69c  I  

L•m't 2 per COUPON Coupon expires Oct. 29th 
~r' 

~--~-----------­
r 
Box Q,. Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 ~ 
Phone•(219)283-8661 [ND] 
I


"*The Observer 
(219)284-5365 [SMC] an independent dudent newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's EDITORIAL BOARD
The Observer 1~ publi~hed by students of the University of Thoma~ O'Neil Editor-rn-Ch1et
NJl!rt• D,mw and St Mary·~ College It does not necessarily Dan Sanche/ Managing Ed1tor
n•tlt>< t tht> pohciP~ of Pit her institution Thf.' nf.'ws is rPported Chris Smith A~~~ Managing fd
c1~ .t< < ur.ttt>ly ,mel a~ obwctivPiy as pussiblf.' Editorials Crt>gg Bangs F xt>cut ivP Fditor
n•prt·~t>nt tht> op1n1on of a maJority of thP Editorial .Board Val Zurbli~ 1:-xt>cut IVP Ed1tor
Cl>llHlH'n!.lnP~. opinion.., and letters arf.' the vif.'ws of thPir ,lUt hor~ Column ~pan· is available to all nwmbPrs of the 
Pat Han1lin Fditorial Editor 
<omnlllni!V, c~ruiiPttPr~ .~re Pncouragf.'d to promo!P thP free l~ob MadN E'xt>c Nt>v.~ Fd1tor 
1'\prt·..,~Hlll ot v.1ry1ng oprnions on campus Maurt-Pn rlynn C,unpus Ed1tor 
Mart1 Hogdn St Marv·~ E-ditor
I\li..,IIH'" Mandgt'r rom f rOIH/dk Don Rt>inwr Copv Ld1t•.r
:\d\t•rti'lng Man,Jgt-r M1kt> Mlllt•r 
T1111 0'Rt>ilt>V f Paturt>s I d1torl':u1to I d1tor 1ony Chifan I r"d Ht>rb..,t Sports E d1t(lr l'rodu< !ron Mc1ndgt>r Marih.t L I <Inning 
Wednesday, October 13, 1976 

.-.. And More Thinking 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii~ w. neIs o n smith 
• · Ihe· .rrgunlc'nt-. for the University "It takes a lifetime to make a t\Hl extremes: a total reliance on tn c·m·our-.rl!L' more course~ empha­man.·· Some men and women faith and hope as a guide for one's '"rng ~c·ll-rl'llec·tive thinking. such never make it, never develop a life. or a depressed hopeless state ;r~ value·~ seminars. l}ccds further wholesome personality. and leave of remorse for past personal fail­,·,;rmrnation. Notre Dame is u thi~ life still incomplete. ures and lost opportunities. kading e~ampk of the ultimate Self-reflective thought is the The person of the future will be lli'titution for our ~oeict's educa­method of personality inrcgration. most adaptable to the tremendous tinnal procT~~-It would certainly 1he development of value systems­changes in society, if he has he unique for till' University to and choices for action which distin­well-developed abilities of reflective plaLT official emphasis on the guish the complete person from the thinking. and not merely sophisti· dc'\l'lopment of values and beliefs. fragmented. the man from the boy, cated book-learning. whether ''hc·n in our ~ocictv this activitv is the woman from the girl. the based on technology or humanities. llllll'l' to he found. if found at ali. in mature from the young. and the the Trappist monastery and not in ~trong from the weak. In my opinion. Notre Dame an\· facilit~· of "higher" education. The other purpose of "thinking" should not make the developmen~ 
It is important to consider the 1s forecasting. No one can change of values, priorities for action. value of retlective thought. to what the past. but self-retlective think­ability to retlect. a requirement. of purposes it can be put and whether ing does allow one to interpret a deep and serious kind. Superticial or not Notre Dame should require it successes and failures in light of instruction in values is useful for of its students. The most important present expcricnee. One can ach­those that want it. but as manv aspect of contemplation is its ieve an understanding of the self's graduates of the past can attest. timing. It should occur as part of own self-worth. leaving Notre Dame without truly the maturation process. But if too Murphy's Law states. "Every integrated personalities. value sys­carl~·. the ideals developed will not experiment that fails can at least be tems.· beliefs or self·rctlective he tested with experience and used as a bad example." Yes. and thinking abilities docs not hurt your therefore be of little long-lasting , every success is a good _example. survival. If these personal develop­worth. If too late. after actions Effective forecasting from reflec­ments occur. thev occur after Notre have produced undesirable· results tive tho1.1ght allows one t') examine Dame. tested ~vith a range of on other'> and the self. contempla­present actions as they will produce experience. tragic or otherwise. ti\'l' thought is only productive of future consequences. one step removed from the lifestyle remor'>c. The art of reflective However. this deep serious enjoyed as a young. single college thinking. if at the right time of thinking is a mixed blessiJlg. The student in an encapsulated secure one's life has at least two im­timing is important. Too much too community. mediate purposes: personality and soon or too little too late both If vou ·can leave Notre Dame integration and forecasting. causes se.verc problems. misap­after f'our years with a personality. 
Retlcctive thought develops a propriated values. tragic actions somewhat integrated. a value svs­wholeness of personality. a sense and inactions. destructive beliefs, tem. sometimes exercised. and 'an of ,-alues. internal beliefs and faith. etc... And the deeper one thinks, abilitv to "think... somcwavs use­;111d a self-understanding to guide without a sense of balance, the ful; vou 'II be both vcrv lucky.and an dail~· al'lions. Malraux has said. more likely one will come to one of incipient adult success. . 
P. 0. BOX Q 
Mistreated 
man obviouslv feels he has found but I fail to see what bearing this and is . pursuing rather
his. it may have on treating a man with enthusiasticallv. Is it for NO stu­dignity. How is it that one can feel 
dents to judge him and his good­so righteous so as to disregard the intentioned lecturing as absurd or basic respect that all men inherent­worth~· of ridicule? We think not. ly deserve as men? 
evangelist 

Dear Editor: 
The gentleman on the _South Ted Howard Quad never criticized · anv one,\t a Catholic univcrsitv where James Bielunas individual or mocked anv one
till' "Chri~tian" attitude is so 
person in his preaching but yet thehighh \alued. the spectacle out­students of Notre Dame chose to-.idc· the South Dining Hall Monday prove their own moral and intellec­during and after lunch seemed a More tual superiority by scorning and-,trangl' parad,Jx. ,\man urging his insulting him. when he only believ­li~tc·ncrs to rerHHIIll'l' all sinfu_lness 
Mistreatment ed what he was doing was morally
and return to the strict adherence right.
of Goer, principles was being ridieukd and verballv abused bv a Dear Editor: 
An old saying has it that a loaded
largL' group of stullc~ts. those ~-ho 
wagon makes little noise as it rolls-.uppo-;cdly give thi-; place such a I often thought that those attend­down the street, while an empty"Christian" at mosphcre. ing an institution of higher educa­wagon makes noise as it bouncesIt sc'c'lll'> to us that two rational tion. especially one of such notorie­along.
options were open to these stu­ty as ours. would possess a certain dents. If they are turned off by maturity that would place them fanatieism of an~-kind. as we are. above others. regardless of how Unfortunatelv, this letter will 
than they should have ignored different those about us may be. probably be of fittle value, for those 
the man and gone on to whatever Yet. reality all too often fails tQ who proved hollow enough to mock the~· were doing. If they were match ideals. the evengelist will probably scoff at interested in his message. they Case in point: the way in which what Ihavewritten. -.hould have been polite enough to the evangelist on the South Quad listen to what he had to say, instead was abused by supposedly edu­Jack D'Aurora Jf rudely shouting him down in cated and mature student body 
)rder to get a few laughs from the yesterday. I would be the first to P.S. Although I realize that it :row d. admit that the gentlemen's ap­sounds as if I am referring to all the 
We're sure that most of the proach was a little unconventional, students of the South Quad, I am iberal theologians around here that his speech was biblically trite aware that not everyone laughed at would agree that there are many and that the "fire and brimstone" the eveangelist, but certainly a 
paths to the Kingdom of God. This act became passe with Vatican II, great number did. 
DOONESBURY by Garry Trudeau 
YOU MARR!EiJ OICK 
IJAVCNPORT, 7HE NOTE[) 
ORNfTHOI./)(j/51; RA'fl.IJ?R. LATe IN t/FE, YES, 
OIPN'T YOU 7HAT'S LACEY? 1?/GI-IT. 
/ I 
LACEY, HAVe HEAVENS, Y£5! YO/I £V£R.IJ)(}I(Ef) IONCEU/45 ATOTH£/?.M£N MADFOR..7He WITH l!JST::> £NTIR£YAL..e CREW OF /929/ 

se rio us Iy, fo I k s!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 


Free Living 
~~iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii-a rt _buchwaI d 
WASHINGTON--Probablv the "What did the Soviet Consulate countrv most affected bv. last ~av'!' · week's presidential debates was "The\· '>aid the Poli~h la\1\'l'r 
Poland. President Ford in his '>lllluld l~e in an insane as\'lum and startling statement on Russian referred him hack to the Minister of intlucnce in Eastern Europe said. the Interior." 
among other things. that Poland "What did the minister ~a~·'!" was not dominated bv the Soviet "He put the lawyer in an as~·lum Union and would re~1ain free as for hi~ own good." long as he was President. "That's terrible." 
The Polish people received the Woljiimviu said. "When the news with joy. and a friend in other lawyers in War~aw heard Warsaw told me on the telephone it about it the~· petitioned the chair­
has changed their lives overnight. man of the Communi~! Part\' to As_ .soon as I heard the news I have their colleague released i·rom• r:allcd my friend Woljijowicz in the aS\'Ium." Warsaw. '(This is not his real 
"And he released him'!" I asked. name as I don't \\·ant to get him in 
"No. he tore up the petition and trouble.) He told me. "This has 
warned them that if they kept upbeen a great week for us. The day 
their agitation the Soviets would my bojher-in-law Simeowitz heard 
demand that thcv all he sent to the news we were free he·drank as~·lums too.·' . 
half a bottle of Vodka and went out 
"That's terrible." I said. in the street and told a Russian soldier to get the hell out of the "living in a free countr~· doesn't countrv." mean you can yell 'Soviet pig' in a "Th.at's wonderful . " I said. crowded movie theater.-" "Let me speak with Simcowitz." "Did anyone yell 'Soviet pig' in a "You can't. He was hauled off to movie theater?" jail for insulting a foreign tourist." .. A Soviet political attache said "That's too bad." I said. someone did. and he warned the "It's the price you have to pay chairman of the Polish Communist for being in a free country." Part:-· that if he heard it again 
Woljijowiez said. "My friend Bedi· · Moscow would have to take drastic covic.z wrote an editorial in the steps to protect its friendship with newspaper. Red Truth. pointing the Polish people... 
out that Simcowitt. should not have "I don't see why the Sovietsb'ecn arre!-.tcd because. according should take umbrage since Polandto Mr. Ford. Poland was an is not in the Russian sphere ofindependent. autonomous nation." 
influence."

'Til bet Bedicovicz got a good 
reaction to the editorial." "That's what Aronowicz said in a
"I don't know. I haven't seen poem he read in front of the Soviet
him since. They closed up his War Memorial vesterdav. ·' newspaper and took him off to the "I never hea;d of An;nowiez."
Ministr~· of Interior for question-
ing. "Neither has his familv since he "I'm sorrv to hear that." read the poem. Listen. I have to go "His wife. hired a Iawver but the now. There's someone knocking on 
Minister of the Interior-denied he the door." had ever heard of Bedicovicz. He "Are you expecting anyone?" referred the Iawver to the Soviet "At three o'clock in the morn­Consulate for an)· information." ing?" 

Misleading Poll Results 
Dear Editor: 

Please be more accurate and informative in the way you report results of polls of the faculty. According to a recent article a poll showed that "42% of the faculty who returned the questionnaire favored collective bargaining." A more informative statement would be "26% favored collective bar­gaining. 26o/o did not favor collec­tive bargaining. 9% were un­decided and 39% did not res­pond." There is no reason whatso­ever to presume that 42% of those who did not respond actually favor collective bargaining. 
John. E. Derwent 

Wednesday, October 13, 1976 the observer 
St. Mary's forms student academic council 
by Paula CarroU Staff Reporter 

The St. Mary's Department of Academic Affairs has formed a student academic council and has expanded office hours to reach the 
) 
needs of students. 
"My goal is to increase student input in Academic Affairs," stated Cathy Coyne, St. Mary's student vice-president of <_~cademic affairs. "I am doing two things to better represent the students in academic affairs. One is the formation of the Student Academic Council and the other is the new office hours that Gail Mandell and I will keep.'' 
Mandell is the assistant to the :••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••.. vice-president of the college. SMC OUNCES : 
Coyne explained that the council + ANN is composed oithree factions: the + chairman.. who is Coyne; one + representative from each depart-+ Copies of '76 yearbook and old ment; and Mandell. + 1 
The new hours in the Academic + pictures availab e 
Affairs office are Thursday nights : Also, a perfect time to order 
from 7 p.m. to 9 Jl.m. 8Nh Coyne • and Mandell will be in the office in • your '77 Yearbook. LeMans at this time. Coyne + 
explained that this is _the time for 
any student to come If they have recon~me~datio~s .. compla~nts or quesyo~s ~?ncermng their aca­
demic life. I really encourage the 
SMC assembly approves budget 
by Ginny Nask Staff Reporter 

St. Mary's Student Assembly 
opened its second meeting on 
Monday. Oct. II. with an approval 
of the budget for the fiscal year of 
June I. 1976 to May 31. 1977. 
The proposed budget was distri­
buted to all assemblv members and 
r'eviewed for them bv Aura Costan­
ao. A major issue ~oncerning the 
budget was to extablish a criteria 
for allotment of money to various 
clubs. All clubs requesting money 
must submit a proposal stating 
their needs by Friday, Oct. IS. The 
proposals will be reviewed by 
Student Assembly officers upon 
return from mid-seme~ter break 
and further action will proceed. 
The assembly also voted on its 
first proposal of the school year. The 
proposal established the role of the 
representative of each academic 
department and the selection proc­
ess of the representatives. There 
will be on representative and an 
alternate chosen for each cepartm­
ent. 19 in total. The representative 
will be elected by student majors of 
the particular department. She 
must be a declared major as 
defined and recognized by the 
Academic Affairs office. This 
proposal was moved.and seconded 
and will be presented Tuesday to 
the faculty forum by Cathy Coyne, 
vice-president of Academic Affairs, 
the next assembly meeting will 
be on Monday, Oct. 25. 
Photo Club to meet 

The Notre Dame Photography 
Club will hold a meeting t<:>_night in 
Room 204 in O'Shaughnessy Hall 
at 7 p.m. 
The meeting will include a 
30-minute color movie presented 
by Meizel Photo. A brief slide 
show including several views of the 
Notre Dame campus will also be 
presented. Members who are 
interested in learning how to use 
the darkroom should attend this 
meeting, according to Photo Club 
officials. Details on the December 
competition will also be discussed. 
For further information, contact 
Tiin Krause (1I82), David Lewis 
(1786), Sue Hart (67IS) or Pat 
Lennon (8549). 
students to <;orne. If I can't give them the answer I can tell them who could," she stated. 
The council representatives from each of the nineteen departments must be a junior or senior and be a declared major in that department. They, and one alternate, will be elected within the department and will be required to meet with the students in their department at least twice a semester. "I want the representatives to play an active role within the department," Coyne advised. 
Coyne anticipates the council will be a link between the student and herself. ''As student vice­
+ On Wed. Oct. 13;
+ 

+From 1Q-5 In LeMans Lobby -:+ 
·•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••..+l!!!!!!!!!!!!t!~~~~~~~~~~~~~!IU 
li 
Atlanta's Hyatt RefencyBri119sYou football Weellends WithAllTheTrimmillfs. 
I~ you've already built up an app~hte for those out ?f town gndiron contests, you re gonna · fove our football weekend specials. Forstarters, there's a hearty brunch of meats, fruits and all the trim· mings that's piled so high, it's fit for a linebacl<er. Then you board our team bus for a victory ride to ­and from ~he stadiur:t: You'll stay at Atlanta s most exciting hotel. . The whole ballgame is JUSt $25 per person, double 
HYAff RECENCY ATLANTA ·ln PL"achtrl'cCenter 
president of academic affairs. I was elected to represent all the stu­dents.·· She hopes that by meeting with representatives that have had direct contact with the students within the department, she will receive more direct input. 
She emphasized that the council is not a "watchdog." The council's role is to direct the student if they have a complaint. "We can tell them the channels 
they must go through and whom to talk to." 
As stated in the amendment to the constitution that the Student Assembly passed Monday night, the purpose of the council is "to 
•
+
+
+ 
+
+ 
Old +
ea b :
!c r Oo I -• 
~Sal +
;,·
e. . + 
:..-= + 

represent and act upon the views of St. Mary's Student Body in relation to the academic affairs of the college." The functions of the council range from evaluating present academic policy to \Jpholding the academic rights of tht.' college student. 
Coyne noted that students spend a lot of their time on school work ~nd yet they have only one person to represent their interests. She claimed her developments are "reactions to better representa­tion... In comparison to the social and government concerns. the student~ have a number of chan­nels to voice their onimon~--hall officers. class officers .md rc~ident assistants arc some cxampil'.~. She claimed a need for more channels for the student to voice her opinion on academic affairs. Thl'-..L' two innovation-, arl' the firo,t ~tl'p-... 
occupancy~ Or$49 per person for two mghts lodg!ng ana two brunches. And that's not a ball park figure-everything's in­dudecffromtaxes to free parking. 
So no matter where your training camp is located, you can 
. call the Regency in Atlanta at (404) 577-1234, or 1-800-228-9000 gets you Hyatt worldwide and toll free. 
Call today. Everything will 
seem just a little bit better at the Hyatt Regency Atlanta. Because it is. 

------------------------------------------,-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
the observer Wednesday, October 13, 1976
6 

Students, faculty evaluate morning exams 
lcontlnued from page 1) 
the Executive Committee last year. 
The 8 a.m. exam issue could come before the Academic Council this year. If the Academic Council approved the Faculty Settate pro­
posal. 8 p'clock  exams  would  be  
suspended during this year.  
"I think  a  compromise  can  be  

reached." said .Tack. who will be student representative to the Aca­demic Council this year. "I think the be~t thing would be to try it for a vcar and then evaluate it." 
Burtchaell advocates keeping the wstem for a year and then evalu­ating it. He maintains that there is no way ti1 make a fair appraisal after onh hall' a semester. 
He explained that "the decision I\ intended · to benefit the stu­dcnh." By having the exams in the morning. the evening is free for the \I udcnt tv study. enjoy himself and participate in extracurricular al'li\'ilies. 
The nrorning time slot limits the kngth of the test too. Burtchaell explained. Early morning may not be ideal for test-taking, but it was necessary to pick the time with the least courses scheduled, to upset as few regular classes as possible, he continued. 

Regarding the proposal before the Academic Council that would eliminate the morning exams, Burtchaell said, "If the Academic Council wants to take on the scheduling of exams, no one would be happier to let them have it than the administration. 
The exam schedule change has both its proponents and its adver­saries in the student body. 
"I think it's a lous:Y idea," said a junior accounting major. "You're not awake enough that early. It defeats the whole purpose of taking the test." 
Reluctance to get up that early, worry about their efficiency after staying up late studying the night before and concern about their ability to function at that hour of the morning were among reasons given by students who opposed the 
St. Mary's prefers Ford 
bJ Maria FrigJeS Staff Reporter 
\ccording to a poll taken by the St. Mary's College Republicans C'lub. 46 percent of St. Mary's '>I udents favor President Gerald Ford. 
The Poll, taken of 56 percent of the St. Mary·s student body, favored Ford by a margin of 46 percent while nine percent were against Ford. Twenty-five percent of those students surveyed were undecided and 18 percent of the students were unaccounted for. All St. Mary's students listed in the student ·directory were called by telephone leaving .the 18 percent gap. 
The St. Mary's College Repub­licans now plan activities. accord-
Jazz at Nazz 
The Notre Dame Jazz Band will appear for the first time this year in the Na11 on Wednesday. Oct. _13 at ') pm. The program will open with the .I au Combo. which was named as one 11f the ouhtanding groups at last \Tar's Jazz Festival. Later. at I() p;ll. the Big Band will pia~· jazz ranging from historic~to contempo­
rar~· 
ple<'c'S 

Tom McMahon 
Generc., Aqer;: 

John Wahman 
Aqent 

Karen Wentland 
L\~ent 

Diane Long
Agem 

ing to Suzi Ames. co-chairwoman of the poll. The goal is to give information to the uncertain stu­dents by posting President Ford's campaign platform so undecided voters can evaluate the candidate. 
"The poll was not conducted to convince one to vote for or against Ford." Ames stated. "Nor was it to sway one's opinion, but to find 
the general feeling at St. Mary's about the candidate." FAST I a TYPEWRITER J
REPAIR 
ll:l:l:fH,! 
2915 Mishawaka Ave:
-
25¢ 
BEERS 
AT LOUIES MON·-THURS· all night pool-pinball-pizza 
'TearafllT 'l'ar.
I ~l'llll'~fl'r.after 't'mt·~t t•r. tlu.· ( 'olle~t· \ la~h.·r 
from Fiddit\ 
l nionl .ift· h;t'-1 
ht'l'll the llhl'-1 arn·ptetl. mo~t popular plan on rampu~t·~ all OHT \merira. 
hml out \\In. ('all the I· iddil\ l mon {·ollt.·~~· \Ia~ter Fidtl \~~ociate 
m \our art·a: 
'! I 1 l. ( Pd.u 
""uth Bt•nd, Ind. Phmw lll7-nr 
plan. 

"I think I prefer it at night," a sophomore biology major said. "There's less pressure and more time to answer the questions. You get a better chance to show the prof what you know." . 
"I'd rather get it over with early. 
That leaves the evening free," a junior majoring in business com­mented. "Unless you don't have many classes during the day, you don't study that much more, any­way." 
"We'd much rather have them in the morning and get it over wttn, Government Executive ator. 
El 
a 
a 
a 
a a a a a a 
a 
a 
a a a a a a 
a 
a 
a 
a 
a 
a 
a 
a 
a 
three freshmen agreed. 

Students may take their com­plaints to the Provost or to Student Government officials Mike Gass­man, Pat Tack, or Ken Girouard, according to Girouard, Student 



Co-ordin­
c 
a 
a 
a 
a a 
a 
a a 
a 
a 
a 
a 
a 
a 
a 
a 
a 
a 
a 
a 
a 
a 
a 
a a a 
a 
a 
a 

PRICES GOOD THRU 10/16/76 


a NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
a ... 
-------~~ 
Wednesdav, October 13, 1976 __t_he observ-=e'-"r~-----"7 
HPC discusses budget, new -laundry facility 
by Maureen Flynn Campus Editor 

The Hall Presidents' Council {HPC) last night unanimously approved a resolution by its Stand-· ard Review Committee defining the HPC, its purpose, direction and goals. 
The resolution, introduced by Walsh Hall President"Kathy Kane, outlines both general principles and specific procedures for HPC organization and operations, in­cluding bi-monthly meetings between the Standard Review Committee and the student body president and publication of HPC 
stands  on  issues  through  the  
campus media.  
"It is important  to  note,"  the  

resolution states, "that we do not want to play the 'watchdog' role in Student Government--we do not want to sit in judgement. Rather," the document continues, "it is our purpose to work in conjunction with our Student Government, as a separate entity neither coming under the power of nor having power over Student Government, but working alongside it.'' 
HPC Chairman J. P. Russell endorsed the resolution, noting that it "outlines specific things we can do to be more in contact with the SBP and Student Government. It's a good step in the direction of all student representatives working together," he said. 
The Council also unanimously approved R[?posed budget alloca­
tions to the various residence halls. The Budget Committee received a record $13,985 in requests for the $7500 the HPC is allotted by Student Government for Hall Life. 
, Budget Committee Chairman Keefe Montgomery {Stanford) siad the committee's decisions were based on the need of the halls, the amount received in past years and its use, hall plans for using this year's funds and the ability of the halls to otherwise subsidize their projects {see box for detailed allocations). 
Student Government Executive Coordinator Ken Girouard told the HPC last night that Student Gov­ernment is working on a proposal for a central laundromat facility that would supplement the present system. <Jirouard said the proposal would be ready bv Nov. 8 and would be sub~itted to the HPC" before presentation to the admin­istration. 
The hall presidents, in the meantime, are conducting surveys of their hall constituencies to determine student attitudes towards the installation of such a facility. oi those halls that have completed their polls, only one hall, Cavanaugh. opposed the idea because "a few machines in a central location will not alleviate the problem," reported Hall Presi­dent George Velcich. 
Mary C"harchut, student union executive coordinator, announced last night that student union will be reserving blocks of seats for the Doobie Brothers concert so that 
Alumni-$370 for purchase of furniture for informal studv lounge Badin-$345 for kitchenette eljuipml'nt Brccn-Phillips-$3o0 for Puulc Room furniture, T.V. and antenna 
\ Ca,anaugh-SJH5 for T.V. and athletic c4uipmcnt Dillon-$31-15 for L·arrcl'> and dL''>k'>. fund~ for stud~-lounge Farlc~-$325 for ...ora and chair'> for IlL'\\ lounge Fishcr-$325 for L'arpcting for lounge Flanncr-$350 for a.,.,istam-e on fo(){halcs rccon.,truction Gral·c-$300 for piano and mud1es for hascmcnt Hoi~ Cross-Sl-15 for ha.,kcthall court repair. lihran· furniture Howard-$330 for panelling for game room 
Kccnan-S.HO for panelling for community room Lcwis-SJ--15 for tcle\ ision ' IJons-$325 for general Morissc~·-$370 for construction of permanent outside grill Pangborn-$375 tbr refrigerator. dark room equipment St. Edward's-$355 for general St. Joseph's-$80 for pool table repairs and cue sticks Sorin-$415 for T.V .. storage shed and one grill Stanford-$350 for antenna for new T.V. lounge completion walsh-$340 for furniture for eommunitv room Zahm-$345 for tinishing of community. lounge TOTAL-$7510 

SUNSHINE PROMOTIONS & BILLY SPARKS PRESENT: 

and Special guest THE EMOTIONS 
Fridav Oct. 15 8:00 PM Notre Dame ACC Tickets $6.50 Main floor and all padded seats 
5.50 Bleachers 

On Sale now at: ACC Box office, Robertson's, 
St. Joseph Bank· and Branches, First Bank 
{Main Branch only), The Elkhart Truth, Just 
For The Record {1 00 Center), Suspended 
Cord {Elkhart), The Record Joint {Niles), 
Boogie Records {Mishawaka). 
and Notre Dame Student Union 
students will not have to camp out chance of getting padded seats. to get good seats. Students who Charchut said. plan to attend the concert should Girouard presented the HPC contact their hall presidents, who with a detailed student government will reserve seats for them, Char­proposal for a campus cable tele­chut said. vision system. Girouard said the 
"Each hall will get as many project. originally conceived with tickets as it wants," she added, but entertainment in mind, would have explained that seating will depend great educational value as well. on the number of seats that must The proposal notes that such a he reserved. Student Union gets svstem could be used to handle preferential seating for concerts. so o~erflows of da~s sessions. to students should have a good rccciYc kL'tur-e' and o!hcr cduca-
NOTICES 

Greyhound Bus to Ch ica'lo Leaves Circle Every Friday at 4:45. Call Tom al 8338 by midni'lhl Thursday tor seat reservations and further info. 
MORRISSEY LOAN FUND $20 $150. 1 day wait. 1 '• interest. Due in 30 days. LaForlune Basement. MF 11:1512:15 
Accurate, fast typinC]. Mrs Donoho 232 07 46 Hours: 8 am to 8 pm 
wiil~~;;-;~-;!u~i;~~~~re 
time. For info call Beth 8112 
ND Club sponsors tour to USC ND 'lame plus one week in sunny Hawaii. Game licket included. De part Nov. 27 and return Dec 6. $520.00 from Chica'l?· Call 1577 tor details 
NOTICE: Fal Wally's now deliver in'l pizzas and sandwiches, Monday. Saturday. 8 till midniC]ht. Minimum order $3 .00. Phone 277 0570 
Notary Public Mike Borders. 300 Morrissey. Absentee ballots usually need to be notarized 
SENIOR ADVISORY COUNCIL MEETING! 4:15 Wednesday, Oct 13, 1976. 124 Hayes Healy Very Important 
FOR RENT 
Furnished Apartment tor rent. Bedrooms, Utilities turnisped, Pri vale and Entrance. No Pets, Quiet Adults, Deposit. Forest. Ave oft PortaC]e. 291 0556 
For Rent. Furnished six and tour bedroom houses. Couple of blocks from Notre Dame. Also sin'lle rooms. 277 3604 even in'ls 
LOST AND FOUND 
LDst: Woman's 'lold Gruen watch with mesh band·. Somewhere be· tween Holy Cross and (or in) Madeleva. Reward. 4·4374 
LDst a Bluejean jacket at the Library Bar on Sat. Jim Stron'l 31077. If found please call 233·2608. It's the warmest thin'l I have. 
LOST: Texas Instruments SR·11 in orC]anic Lecture 'bout 2 weeks aC]o. Please help me keep my head above the risin'l physics. infested waters. Call 291.8329 after 5:00 P'm, Mark. Can identity it. 
Let a smile be your umbrella on a rainy day, but 1 need my liC]ht brown wrap.tie raincoat! Reward. Call Karen 6994 
LOST: 2 nn'ls in vicinit-y of ROTC buildin'l. -Hi'lh School. Green Stone; ·and Turquoise with Mother pear. Reward offered. Please call Kevin 233 4222 
LOST: Gold St. Mary's class rinC]. EnC]raved with Mary Estes hall, BS, 
78. Reward. Call 4524 
LDst BlueJean jacket with fur lininC]. Call Pitz at 6970 
WANTED 

Ride needed· near New Hampshire­Massachusetts. Vermont Border October Break. Please Call Ed, 1160 
Need ONE Alabama Ticket. Call Robbie 8706 
Need four Ore'lon tickets. Call Debbie 4728 ­
WANTED: Two G.A. Alabama tic. kets. Call Ron 1203 
Need ride to Cleveland for break. ~al!~!¥.._8~..!..: ________ 
Need 5 Gen. Adm. Orer10n Tix. Callark 287-5713 ­
BEER Free delivery and low prices. Chip 288·7878 
Need 3 GA tix to Oref!on flame. Call 
Mary 7877 -­
Need 4 GA Oref!on tix. CAll Joe 277-3307 After 5:00 pm 
Desperately need 4 GA tix tor Alabama. Call Bob 1461 
LIZ RAY NEEDS ME!!! Help her by helpin'l me get to D. C. Liz aC]reed to pay my share of gas money Call Chuck 3260 
Classified Ads 
WANTED 6 GA Oref!on Tickets. Call 7128 
Experienced 'lUitar:st seekin'l to form Rock and Roll band with other students. Mus\ be experienced also and must have own equipment. Call Bob at 14~7 
URGENTLY NEED A BAMA TIC KET FOR A RETURNING DOMER! CALL MAUREEN AT 4829 
WANTED 
Help wnated; waitress, full, part time; must .be 21. Apply Fat Wally's, 2046 South Bend Ave. 4 7 p.m. 
Need ride from Kansas City return. in'l from Oct. Break. Call jane 4427 
Need two tickets for Elvis Concert. Call H2 7 429 
WANTED: 2 GA tickets tor Ducks $$ Call Dennis 8164 
Will do typin'l themes manuscripts Call287·5162 
Wanted· Ride to NYC.Westchester. Please call Katie 4 4214 
Need ride to Kansas City, Ks. or Glenville, W. Va. for Oct. Break. Please call Matt at 3386 
Exper.ienced student seekin'l house paintin'J, lawn jobs. Mike 289.2632 (evenin'lS) 
WANTED: Two or Three OreC]on tix. Call Debbie at 8125 
Need 2 GA Ore'lon tickets. Call Henry at 288 2618. 
Need 2 BAMA tix tor parents who have never been to a ND Game, Mary 8125 
Addressers wanted Immediately! Work at home..no experience neces. sary..excellent pay. Write American Service, Suite 132, Minneapolis, Mn 55426 
Need 2 GA Bama tickets desperately Call 1785 
Ride needed to Wash. D.C. Area tor Oct. Break. Call Donna 8112 
Field Interviewers Male or Female. Must have car and be wiltin'l to work eveninC]s and Satrudays. No sellin'l· draw available if you are 'lOOd. Call Mr. Slade at 277-3191 for appoint­ment. 
Two need ride to Baton RouC]e. Call Terese 7879 or Anne 7848 
2 'l iris desperately need ride to Wash inC) ton D. C area (one way) for Oct break. Willin'l to leave ANY time and will share drivin'l and expenses. Call 6561 or 7995 
Desperately need 2 GA tix for OreC)on. Call Mary Pat or Nan 6789 
Help wnated. Part-time eveninC]s Speni's Pro Shop. 321 S. Notre Dame South Bend 
Riders needed to Pittsbur'lh. Leav. infl Oct 15 Back 17th. Call 287-6613 

, atier 5:00 
Need Ride bac;k to Notre Dame from Pittsburf!h after break. Great ·compan-y ! ! will share expenses. 
Call jean 8158 
PERSONALS 
Commissioner Gordon's Office, Fri day will be cold and stormy. Take 
1.94 to Exit 88. Get off on ballot! 
spikes are ready, is GeorC]e gone? BYOSCAD 
Terri, 
Its your birthday today! And zoom comes down from the moon to wish you happy' birthday. Celebrate and remember teh bi'l H! 
LDve Upstairs 
----~---------­
Silly Girl, 
How do I love you? Let me count the ways1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9,10,11,12, 13. 
Yellow Monarch 
Pete: Your personal was censored. Sorry. 
Kris and Nancy-­You're so normal! Herb 

tional materials from other col­leges. to display popular classe~ during the day for auditing pur­poses and to further develop Uni­versitv studies in the field of ComrT;unication Arts and-broad­casting. 
The proposal includes an e\alu­tion of the advantage'> and di\­advantage., of o;uch a system and a listing of altcrnati\l''i hv the Jordan E4uiprnent Co.. In,·.. of <;,.ulh Bend. 
Hey Ter. 1 Earth to Ter 1 
The 19th won't be the same without Tuna and Exit 88, but mov" us up to 1 and bnn'l your dice to the batloft on the 15th. 
Happy Birthdi!y ·A II your stars P S We'll only play to ·,' 
Stud. Remember a spoonful of su,ar.. have a supercalitraflilist,cexpialido· cious birthday 
Cheapskeate Rob· A penny saved is a pen_ny earned 
c 
YO'li It's your serve Boo Boo 
Moe Reynolds­Sorry about that 
Stud: a bi'l 18! you'd better come to your senses, it's almost too late desperado 
MOM, 
I'm thinking about putting a bed up here in the office for you (just because we love you -·-and need you) Bev says hi and that you're the only person she isn't mad at today. LDve, Your Republican Boss 
Rhino We took your advke and now everythin'l'S fine. just fine!! Are you h unC]ry tor some cookies:! 
Your three baby domers 
Fancy Dan, you and Bruce Jenner have a lot more in common than you think you sexy thin'l! Sam's Girl 
CabOOS· Thanks tor the flowers. They were beautiful 
LDve Wombat 
Turk and Murphy This is. so you don't feel left out 
S. and P. 
Matt. Here is your second personal ever. Salt and Pepper 
Only five shoppin'l days lett till Jeannie Cowboy's twentieth Birth­day! 
Go Mary Ellen! Our very own N D Superstar Athlete! We LDve You! The Mental Ward 
Dear Colleen, 
Happy 20th Birthday. After twen­ty more, we can have our twenty. third annual. 
LDve Pablo 
It's been comin'l for 200 years...the why-centennial beaux arts costume ball. Come as your favorite Ameri­can hero, monument or food. Oct 30 
Dear Dave and Dave (expecially Dave), the teelinfl is mutual. The Blond in History 
Need 2 GA Tickets for OreC]on Game. Call Ellen 8091 
Meetin'l for all Case Sisters 
8:30, Senior Bar For more information call, Sad Case 4044, Get Ott My Case 4357 
MAMA M lA! It's President Pia's Birthday. LDve Ya The Girls 
Help! Need ride to Cincinnati (pre ter Oxford} or Indianapolis or 170 East. Call Mike at 8692 (PLEASE!!) can I eave Fri. or Sat. 
Kevin Huston's birthday is Friday oct. 15. Call that "bunny rabbit" of a 'lUY at 1847 and say HAPPY B· DAY. He loves phone calls 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY MARTY, SKID ROW 
MJM Happy Birthday to the Greatest brother a Gal could have. Happy 21st Mart. Peanut. Peanut Butter... 
JMM 
A.D. Please mind your own business. Nei'lhbors 
BODACIOUSBodacious Bag Brot­hers bash at the Bag Inn at 8 :00 tonite! Last meeting before Bag Break, so all BB's Bag Books and be there. Bag Shirts, Bag Ball and Baggie of the month will be ban­tered upon. Farah may also appear tonite! 

• 
the observer Wednesday, October 13, 1976 



Reds sweep playoffs 
Monte Towle=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:===:=:=:=:=:==============================================================================:==========================================================================================:===============:===========:=======:===============:=========================:=:===============:=======:===============:=:=:=:=:=:===========:===:=:============================; 
by Fred Herbst  like Underwood is a left-hander.  stone  to  load  the  bases.  After  
Sports Editor  Underwood  promptly  walked  throwing  an  off-target  pitch  to  
CINCINNA Tl --Baseball. Dull, dry, a dying sport. Well. if that's the case you better not tell the Philadelphia Phillies and the Cincinnati Reds. Drama,  Cesar Geronimo on four pitches to put runners on first and second. Following a sacrifice, Pete Rose was intentionally walked to load the bases a_nd set up a force at any base.  Boone for his sixth consecutive ball, Nolan watched manager Sparky Anderson come to the mound and call in relief speciali~t Manny Sarmiento who retired Boone and the Phillies on one  
excitement. irony--they were all there as the young Phillies struggled to fight off elimination, and the bedford Reds tried to  Ken Griffey, the league's second leading hitter for the season, atacked a one ball pitch down the first base line to first baseman  pitch. " The next inning Philadelphia struck for two runs. Larry Bowa drew a Sarmiento walk with sacri­ 
repeat as National League champ­ions here Tuesday afternoon. Forced to come from behind twice, the Reds staged a miracu­lous rally to come from two runs down in the bottom of the ninth to gain a 7-6 win in the National League Pennant. The Reds' winning rally began when George Foster. who was named Sporting New~ Player of the Ycar just before the game, hit a tremendous home run off Phillie rclicfer Ron Reed to open -the ninth. Johnny Bench followed by placing a shot to the same spot as Foster had just hit. Suddenly what looked to be a sure Philly win was a tic game with the Reds at bat. Reed was replaced by Gene Garber. who was greeted by Dave Concepcion. who singled to center. Philly manager Danny Ozark immediately replaced Garber with Tom Underwood. The selection of Underwood came as a surprise since he was primarily a starter all season and Ozark had relief _speci­alist Tug McGraw available. McGraw is a veteran of three play-offs and two world series and  Bobby Tolan who couldn't field it. flees to second and scored on Garry Concepcion scored giving the Reds Maddox's double to left. Schmidt their second consecutive league followed with another double to title. left, driving in Maddox and giving As they had done in each of their the Phils a three to nothing first two games; the Phillies built' advantage. The hit was Schmidt's themselves an early lead. Mike third hit in four appearances. The Schmidt opened the fourth by two-bagger was also the end of doubling down the third base line. Sarmiento and Anderson again Greg Luzinski followed with a double went to his bull-pen bringing in to right as the Phillies move ahead Pedro Borbon who retired the side. one to nothing. Re&gie "call me In the bottom half of the seventh, Dick" Allen then sent a fly ball to the Reds finally reached Phillies' deep right that Ken Griffey hauled starter Jim Kaat and got on the in, allowing Luzinski to move to board as they struck for four runs third. However the Phils' threat and grabbed the lead. The inning died as Jay Johnstone grounded opened with Griffey hitting a sharp out. What appeared to be a big grounder up the middle on which Philadelphia inning had gone by Dave Cash made a spectacular play the board. backhanding the ball, wheeling and The Phils mounted a serious throwing off balance. Griffey was threat in the sixth. Schmidt singled ruled safe on an extremely close with one out. Luzinski's was then play and the Reds were off. robbed of at least a double by a Joe Morgan followed with a walk tremendous running catch by and Ozark replaced Kaat with Geronimo in deep center. Schmidt, former Notre Dame basketball star running on the pit'ch, would have Ron Reed. At the same time Bobby scored, but was forced to return to Tolan went to play left field for first base. Red Pitcher Gary Nolan, Luzinski in a defensive ploy. obviously shaken by Luzinski's The Reds greeted Reed with a smash. walked Allen and John-single scoring Griffey and moving  Jay Johnstone went seven for nine at the plate, an unbelievable .778 batting average, in a losing cause for the Phillies. Morgan to third. Morgan scored moved to first base, was safe on an on the next pitch as Foster drove a error by third baseman Pete Rose. sacrifice fly to right. Bench walked Martin then scored on Johnstone's and after a fly out, Geronimo lofted triple. a Texas league base hit to left that Then came the Reds' miraculous bounced over Polan's head for a ninth inning rally. Series notes: triple, scoring Perez and Bench and Johnstone had one of the greatest giving the Reds a 4-3 lead. The series in history going seven for Phils came back in the eighth to nine at the plate, a . 778 batting retain the lead. Johnstone got a average. ground rule double off the chest of Dave Cash handled eight Perez and moved to third on a wild chances flawlessly and hit .364 for pitch. Boone followed with a walk, the series. Gene Garber took and was replaced by pitch runner the loss for the Phils and Rawly Terry Harmon. Larry Bowa then Eastwick got the win for the Reds. doubled, scoring Johnstone and Tuesday's crowd of 55,047 was moving Harmon to third. Harmon the largest ever to see a playoff then scored on a sacrifice fly by game in Cincinnati, a fifth largest Cash, giving the Phils a S-4 lead at crowd for a game in the city. the end of eight. The Reds will open-the world The Phils added what they hoped series Saturday afternoon against to be the insurance run in the the winner of the New York-Kansas ninth, as Jerry Martin, who had City series in Cincinnati. moved to left field when Bolan had  

An inside look at the NBA 


• 
Proponents of the old ABA will no longer be able to fantasize about the superiority of their teams compared to established NBA teams. The 'merger of the two leagues has finally forced both the proponenis and the four clubs to face reality. The 1976-77 season marks_ the first. true test of these dubs. but to the basketball fans. it stands to be a showcase of added entertainment with the likes of Julius Erving. David Thompson and the effervescent Monte To~·e. 
To say that the four new teams will dominate the NBA 1s as speculative as to expect them to post the four worst records. at least three of these teams could t·hallcnge for playoff berths but don't expect an instant champion­ship. Following are my predicted finishes. 
ATLANTIC DIVISION 
BOSTON: The latest addition of Sidney Wicks has enhanced the Celts chanl·es of succesfully defen­ding their crown. This should cover up for the absence of retired Don Nelson. leaving Tom Heinsohn with three forwards. John Havli­l"ei:k 1s not getting older, he's getting better while Paul Silas is most cffct·tivc off the bench. With durable Dave Cowens at center and the superb backcourt duo of White and Scott. the (dts should repeat. BUFFALO: The Notre Dame alumni association has staked a claim in Buffalo with John Shumate and Adrian Dantlev. Shumate and 
A.D. will both start. joining super­star Bob McAdoo in the front line. 
Mac has recently added an inside game to his repertoire of tricks. Look for Bird Averitt to join Randy Smith in the backcourt replacing the inept Ernie Digregorio. ~EW YORK [Nets]: Impossible to confuse with the Knicks. Julius Erving is the most spectacular. if not the best forward in the world and his presence alone could put 
t.e Nets in post season play. The arrival of Nate Archibald with his 25ppg and 8-10 assists per game gives Dr. J. ample support. Center PHILADELPHIA: The Sixers are 
capable of scoring ISO points on 
any night. If Billy Cunningham 
doesn't retire because of his bad 
knees. then he can be cnunted on to 
lead the team. George McGinnis 
had a good year. but he is certainly 
not the god thought to be at one 
time. If backeourtmen Fred Carter 
and Doug Collins add offense to 
their 20 ppg. the 76ers are in good 
shape. Big relief could come in the 
form of proven Caldwell Jones at 

center. NEW YORK:The Knicks will finish 
last because Walt Frazier no longer 
cares about winning. Spencer 
Haywood must carry the team with 
a little help from Earl Monroe who 
has been playing the best ball of his 
life the last few years. Bill Bradley 
will be his usual solid self. but 
center John Gianelli has Knick fans 
pining for Willis Reed. Jim 
McMillian should be an asset in the 
starting lineup. Team attitude is 
crucial. 
CENTRAL DIVISION WASHINGTON: The Bullets re­turn pretty much intact from a year ago and as long as Dave Bing develops his floor leadership. they will win the division title. Elvin Hayes improved his shooting but without friend Kevin Porter, his overall play was less effective than ever. Phil Chenier finished strong last season after a slow start while center Wes Unseld continued to show why he is one of the best centers in the NBA on both ends of the floor. CLEVELAND: The Cavs came close to playing in the champion­ship series last year. Nate Thur­mond and Jim Chones are a tough one-two punch at center but Coach Bill Fitch needs more than Jim Brewer to complement Campy Russell at forward. Irish grad Austin Carr appears recovered from injuries and will team with Jim Cleamons at guard. An excellent shooting team that is dying for added depth. HOUSTON: The Rockets are a running team. That's no surprise berth. It's good that Houston has gotten Ed Ratleff to haul down rebounds. a lost art in the mind of Rudy Tomjanovich. SAN ANTONIO: Someone whould teach the Spurs the intracacies of defense. Center Billy Paultz has a soft touch around the basket but that won't do much for his defense against Jabbar. Filmore at all. Forwards Larry Kenon and George Gcrvin are 20 point scorers but arc toothpicks and will get pushed around. Guard James Silas aver­aged 24 ppg last year and 1s probably one of the five best guards in the league. ATLANTA: John Drew is an impressive forward. but his cocki­ness turns the fans. as well as teammates off. Guard Tom Hen­derson is a mystery in shooting ability but is a good floor leader. Lou Hudson isdeterioratingwith age while Dean Meminger is also on the way out. Joe Meriweather is a bright spot at center but on a team like Atlanta, it will make little difference. NEW ORLEANS: They did im­prove last year, QUt to think that the addtion of gunning guard Gail Goodrich will help them is ridicu­lous. Pete Maravich is a spectacu­lar team leader who takes too many shots each game. but who else is going to? Certainly not center Otto Moore. Someone's got to play center is his excuse for playing. 
MIDWEST DIVISION CHICAGO: Let's hear it for the Bulls. The presence of two new players has made the Bulls a title contender. Scott May is suffering from mono, but should team with center star Artis Gilmore to com­plement each other at opposite ends of the floor. What about the established Bulls? They're there. Norm Van Lier excels at defense and playmaking while Bob Love and Mickey Johnson are standout forwards. DENVER: Their lineup of names is, indeed an impresive one. David Thompson is right "up there" with Dr. J. among the best. He will be son and little Monte Towe. You want another name? It could be Marvin Webster, the human eraser. DETROIT: Coach Herb Brown, a University of Vermont graduate. can onlv be elated with the newest additio~s to his club. These include Leon Douglas, Phil Sellers. and ABA veteran Marvin "crow­bar" Barnes. Bob Lanier is one of the best centers in basketball and will probably play his best ball this year while looking over his shoul­der. Kevin Porter returns healthy and with Curtis Rowe. the Pistons are good. MILWAUKEE: Coach Larry Cos­tello knows that his Bucks got ripped off in the Jabbar trade last year. Jim Price, Dave Meyers, Junior Bridgeman and Elmore Smith made no great strides al­though Smith scored a few points. Bob Dandridge is finally learning that he can lead a team but he must get some help from Quinn Buckner and former Domer Gary Brokaw. The Bucks are still rebuilding but do have a nucleus. INDIANA: Without the three-point play, the Pacers will feel like 

strangers in the NBA, especially diminutive guard Billy Keller. In Billy Knight, coach Bobby Leonard has a budding superstar at for­ward. Depth on the front line will be provided by Darnell Hillman and center Len Elmore. Should Don Buse continue his heady play from his guard position, then the Pacers could challenge the .500 mark. KANSAS· CITY: The Kings were wrong to trade away Archibald even though they did get Brian Taylor in return. If this is meant to be a joke remains to be see. Center Sam Lacey still leaves a lot to be desired on offense but Scott Wed­man is coming on strong. If anything, a team of the future. 
PACIFIC DIVISION GOLDEN STATE: They took a year off from the championship series, but they are! still the class of the west. Superstar Rick Barry has to 

Jamaal Wilkes grew up last year as did Gus Williams and that alone. will help Coach AI Attles this year. An added plus is draftee Robert Parrish who will press Clifford Ray for the starting center slot. PHOENIX: The Suns were impres­sive against the Celtics in the finals last year and will be breathing down the Warriors backs all vear. Oregon star Ron Lee is a ncw~·omcr and if he makes the team. should sec a lot of action behing Paul Westphal and Ricky Sobers. Rookie sensastion Alvan Adams has a year's experience to build on and must feel secure knowing the great depth that composes his team with names like Heard. Perry, Van Arsdale. Erickson and Awtrey. It will be close between the top two teams. PORTLAND: Bill Walton could lead this team to a playoff berth even without Wicks. He played 
well last year and will perform even better knowing the Maurice Lucas and Moses Malone will be contend­ing for a starting berth. Say goodby to Larue Martin. the worst number one pick of all time. there's no room. Lionel Hollins and Larry Steele complement the big men and give new coach Jack Ramsay hope for the future. LOS ANGELES: Rookie coach Jerry West is energitic, a necessity if he hopes to make a go of this mixed up team. Kareem Jabbar is still the most powerful force in the sport but even that won't be enough. Mack Calvin's knees are shaky as is Cazzie Russell's re­bounding. If Lucius Allen ever decides to play up to his ability, he could help this team immensely. Corky Calhoun is hav .ng too much fun to help this team, although Don Freeman could be of assistance. SEATTLE: Coach Bill Russell has a mountain of work ahead of him. He might start by teaching his team how to rebound. 7 ft. 4 in. center Tom Burleson has no excuse for his nine rebounds a game when he should be averaging twice that. Russell can look to an outstanding 
guard combo in Fred Brown and 

Kim Hughes is an adequate defen­considering they have lightning ' joined by Bobby Jones and Dan regain his aggressiveness. One big Slick Watts but the forces quickly sive center but he won't be able to Calvin Murphy at one guard. Issei on the front line and if that improvement last year was the play thin out after these players. Rookie beat up his opposition like he did in Rookie John Lucas will push Mur­doesn't scare you, then how about of guard Phil Smith who is a big Bobby Wilkerson could be starting the ABA. phy and Mike Newlin for a starting the guard tandem of Ralph Simp-scorer and strong defender. as a swing forward. 


