Debates tonight 
LOS ANGELES [AP] -The first of three nationally televised face-offs between President Ford and Jimmy Carter starts tonight in Philadelph­ia at 8:30p.m. EST. It'll be carried by public TV and the three networ­ks. 
The 90-minute session with the GOP and Democratic presidential contenders is the first of its kind since Sept. 26, 1960. Then, John F. 

Kennedy  and  Richard  M. Nixon  
met  at  Station  WBBM TV  in  
Chicago  for  the  first  of  four  

60-minute televised campaign deb­ates. 

Tonight's Ford-Carter confront­ation deals only with domestic and economic issues. Round Two, on Oct. 6 in San Francisco, will cover foreign policy and national defens­
e. The closing debate on Oct. 22 ­no locale is set yet -will be open to a variety of topics. 
NBC's Edwin Newman will mod­erate tonight's opening debate. He was picked for the job by the LeagueofWomen Voters, sponsors of the debates. The League also picked the three-member panel of questioners appearing tonight ­ABC's Frank Reynolds, Elizabeth Drew of the New Yorker and James 
P. Gannon of the Wall Street Journal. 
For compari~ons of party plat­form planks, turn to related story on page 3. 

Parietals committee continues research 
by Honey McHugh Staff Reporter 
Over 300 students met in Moreau auditorium Sunday, Sept.14 to express their views and opinions on parietals and favored a change on the St. Mary's campus parietal policy. 

A response to the open meeting held Sept. 12, this Central Commit­tee, a student study group, feels a need for further investigation. The Committee has divided this investi­gation into three areas: surveys, research and public relations. 
Each committee will study the parietals policy, research other colleges and universities, mediate between administration, faculty and students and generally inform the student body on the overall 

At Purdue game 

progress of the group. 
The Central Committee mem­bers are encouraging students to actively participate by serving on these committees as well as expres­sing their own, individual opinions on the matter by writing letters to the Central Committee, Dr. Dug­gan, StMary's President, Dr. Rice, Dean of Student Affairs, and the Observer. 
"I can't stress enough the impor­tance of each student writing a Jetter to the Committee stating their own, personal views about parietals," states Committee Chai­rman Diane Smits. "If they'd like them (parietal regulations) chang­ed, they should state how they'd like them changed," she added. 
The Committee will distribute a letter which will present their program and outline for the future. 


I 
I I I 
Jennifer Durot and Mickey Finn leading squad for the 1976-1977 in the 1976-1977 squad. The tryouts; are the two returning cheerleaders Hockey season. All N.D. and St. will be held at the ACC. Sundavl from the 1975-1976 Hockey Season. Mary's figure skaters are invited to ,Sept. 26 at 8:30p.m. All girls ar~' They are now organizing the cheer-tryout for the 10 available positions asked to come to Gate 3 and be 
prepared to skate. 



Stripper not ND student 
by Lindy Decio Staff Reporter 
The traditional stripper, who emerged from the depths of he student body at Saturday's game 
against Purdue,  was  not  a  Notre  
Dame student after all.  
James  Roemer,  Dean  of  Stu­ 

dents, who banned the stripper last year said, "I am delighted to heart it wasn't a Notre Dame student." But he added that action will still be taken against the person invol­

ved. Roemer explained that he will 
talk to the athletic department and 
have the ticket of the man who 
stripped withdrawn, if it is a season 
ticket. 
Two reasons were given for getting rid of the traditional strip­per or naked klunker as he is better known. First, the offensive nature of the act, and secondly, the poor exposure it could bring to Notre Dame.. Roemer noted, "Most Notre Dame students would not be ·offended by the scene of a student stripping down to his underwear, 

un1versity of notre dame st m.·~ry's college Vol. XI, No. 18 Thursday, September 23, 1976 
but there are 60,000 people in the stadium and many of them have already complained." 
Roemer continued by saying that it is offensive:: to these other spectators, and if a television camera caught it, there would be very poor exposure for the Univer­sity. He emphasised the fact that disciplinary action would be taken against anyone who strips to their underwear or beyond. He quipped, "It's not the most tasteful way to display the human form." 
Another incident that occurs game after game is the process of passing people up, usually girls. According to Dc~an Roemer, "Un­like the stripper, who by his actions is offensive to those who see him, in the process of passing students up it is the student being passed who is offended." 
Girls especially are mauled and man-handled as they are passed upwards through the crowd. "It is her dignity and safety that are being compromised, not those viewing her," Roemer noted. Accidents have occurred and not only involving the student being 


At the Purdue game, one freshman male student had to 
go to the hospital to have his neck 
X-rayed when a girl be_ing passed 
up was dropped on him. · . 
Roemer said it would be practt­
cally impossible for him to take any 
immediate action to stop the pro­
cess of passing people up and th at 
it would have to be up to the 
students to control this. "If 
enough students become indignant 
about this, they can stop it," he 
concluded. 
Another resoonsibility Roemer 
hoped the students could handle 
w~s the idea of signs or banners in the stadium and on the field. He , noted that there has been a great 1 improvement since last year's . Southern Cal game when there was an over-abundance of offensive signs, but he hoped that all of them will be eliminated. Roemer stres­sed that disciplinary action will be 
taken against any students who 
display signs that are in poor taste 
or have double meanings. 


server 

SMC freshman office nominations open 
• by Maria Frlgyesl Staff Reporter 
Freshman Class Office Nominat­
ion_s open today. Any qualified 
4-member ticket, consisting of a 
President, Vice-President, Secret­
ary and Treasurer may submit their 
ticket to Carla Iacona in 413 
LeMans beginning today, until 
midnight of Thursday, Sept. 30. 
The ticket must include the names 
.of the four people running for 
office, background information on 
each candidate, and the platform 
the proposes. All four members 
are expected to write the two or 
three paragraph platform together. 
This initial step of working toget­
her on a common project will help 
the ticket find any weaknesses that 
must be resolved before the electi­
on. 

Once the pnmary work is comple­
ted, the platforms and tickets will 
be posted in the cafeteria so all 
freshmen will have a chance to 
review the individual tickets and 
evaluate them in terms of what 
they hope will be accomplished in 
the coming year. . 
Campaigning will take 'Place from Oct. 1 through Oct. 6. Any type of campaigning that stays within SMC regulations will be permitted. Specific regulations, as 
passed by the Student Assemply on  
February 3, 1976, are available.  
On October Sth, a "Meet the  
Candidates" night will be held in  
the Clubhouse to give freshmen a  
chance to meet and talk with the  
candidates about their intended  
platforms. In this way. all voting  
freshmen will have a chance to  
personally evaluate each group's  
qualifications, attitudes. and inte­ 
ntions for the upcoming year.  
The final stage of the elections,  
the balloting. will take place from  
10 a.m. -6 p.m. Oct. 7. Tentative  
plans are to have balloting from 10  
a.m. to 4 p.m. in LeMans and from  
4:30 to 6 p.m. in the Cafeteria. To  
win the election, the ticket must  
have a simple majority.  
Duties of the officers during the  
frosh year are basically unstructur­ 
ed. The president serves as a  
voting member of the Board of  
Governance, a group of various  
student leaders within SMC such  
as hall President, the Commission­ 
er, and Student Government. Officers. In addition, the president  1  
serves on the Student l.ife commis­ 
sion. Beyond these basic, mandatory  1  
duties, the officers are expected to  
initiate direction and unity within  
the class.  

~-----~~~~~~~~---­
.... 
~---NewsBri~s---­
I============International 
Kissinger in South Africa 
NAIROBI* Kenya -Henry A. Kissinger arrived here yesterday night and set in motion a plan to rally more black African states behind his southern Africa peace proposals. One objective of the strategy appartently is to thwart any Soviet attempt to undermine his mission. 

Rule in Rhodesia 
SALISBURY* Rhodesia -Prime Minister Ian Smith, weighing with other white lawmakers the British-American plan for transferring power to Rhodesia's black majority, said yesterday "We have got to face up to realities." He refused to say whether his 20-member cabinet had agreed to the plan in its two days of meetings, adding that the decision will be made thursday by his party caucus -the SO white members of parliment. 


t=================================National 
Water-ice on Mars 
PASEDENA* Calif. -Viking 2's mother ship has discovered that a polar icecap on Mars is made of water-ice and that water has apparently flowed on the planet's surface in rivers and streams, scientists said yesterday. 
Crofton B. Farmer, an atmospheric scientis for the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. called the discovery of large quantities of water on · 1rs' northern polar icecap "another shred of evidence", that 
conditions once were suitable there ofr existence of life forms. 

Better gas mileage 
WASHINGTON -Purchasers of new 1977 model cares can expect tc get about six percent better gasoline mileage than owners of 1976 model cars and 34 percent better mileage than owners of 1974 models, the Environmental Protection Agency said yesterday. 
The improved mileage ,is the result of better engines, new engine combinations and changes in the average weight of the cars rpdocued by each manufacturer, EPA said. 
·-On Campus Toda~/-----.. 
9:00am --ticket sales, for elvis presley concert on oct. 20, gate 10, athletic and convocation center. 
1:00-4:30 pm ·-open house, placement bureau, 222 administration building. 
3:00-5:00 pm --discussion, "conversation with tony bill," library auditorium. 
7:00 pm --meeting, nd-smc world hunger coalition, for collectors, Iafortune little theatre 
8:30pm ··presidential debates, television viewing followed by discussion and refreshments, mada 
Student wins bagel contest 
Marv McMahon, St. Mary's Se­nior, is the winner of the "Guess-t­he-Bagel's-Weight" contest. spo­nsored by the Saga Food Service at St. Mary's, Charlie Flaim, director, announced yesterday. 
McMahon, who guessed the correct weight of eight pounds, three ounces, won a prize of ten dollars. 




(*The Observerl 
Night Editor -Nagoh !tram Ass't Night Editor -Relppahcs Luap, Arorua'd Omocaig Layout -Dnaldo Evets, Asrab Nyliram, Htrowsnia Neleh Ecallaw Ennaesor, Notaeh~ 
Eoj. 
Copy Reader -Nietsnetierb Arabrab Day Editor -Navognum Yram 
Editorials -Ttuclac l'.noj · Features -Htims Sirhc Sports -Nosnevets Luap, 
Knirb Bob Typists -Nameloc Newg, Regrubnellehs Nasus, Trebge Yhtak, Olliru Einahpets 
Night Controller More

l Blinder J 
~8vfAGICPI;UTE­

9:15 SAT. SUN.1:45-4:15-6:50-9:30 
Special Fri. and Sat.-Midnite Shows! 
RUTH




HAROLD ~ 
GORDON BUDCORT
and 
' 
1 REDUCED 
* 

PRICE 


Mao's _death results in strife 
by Jim Hershey 

With the recent death of Mao Tse-Tung, Chairman of the Com­munist party in Red China, the absence of a definite successor allows for a broad range of possi­bilities in Red China's immediate political future. 
The indefinite political future arises partly from the conflict between the moderate and radical factions. The moderates have been accused of cooperating economic­ally with foreign countries in their effort to modernize Red China. The radicals cling tightly to Mao's Communist ideology and empha­size perpetual revolution and Red China's self-reliance. 
Professor Peter Moody of Asian Studies explained, ''The radicals want to keep the revolution going. Both (factions) want to make Red China a modern industrial state. Thus, there is a contradiction in the radical view." This view is a contradiction because Red China must seek outside help in order to modernize. 
Moody said, "There seems to be increasing isolation of radicals at the top. There seems to be more divergence between the establish­
ment  radicals  and  the  younger  
radicals."  
Moody  considers  the  political  

situation "potentially very un­stable." "The stability would be the fear, among the top elite, of popular rebellion, civil war, Russ­ian intervention." He explained that the leaders might cooperate\in order to avoid these dangers. One of the signs of unrest was the popular demonstrations in Peking this April against moderate poli­cies. 
Moody also said that Mao's standing could fall. "In 1971 the cult of the individual was attacked Y.ilh quotes from Mao's own Red l:.~•.10! It's not excluded that there 

ERRATUM 

Tuesday's article on Fr. Hesbur­gh's address to Howard residents stated that the U.S. budgets $130 million for military purposes. The correct figure is $130 billion. 
The Observer is published Monday through Friday M~d weekly during the surrmer session, except during the exams M~d vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of the Univ. of Notre Dame c.1d St. Mary's College. Subso'iptions may be purchased for . ..,. ($10 per semester) fro'TI The Observer, Box Q, Notre Dame, lndiM~a 46556. Sealnd Class postage paid, Notre Dame, IN 46556. 
;.Mel Brooks' 

the producers 
AT8:30 P.M. (PG) 

be a secret speech against him in a An American official who re­year." He added, "Mao was cently visited Red China described probably less well-liked among the the country as a tightly controlled political elite than among the uptight society that is very insecure people." at the top because of the factions. 
The role of Mao's wife has not He said that they are heavily been established yet. Moody said, armed; even boys and girls practice "My guess is that no one is going gun-shooting every day. to want her around." He explained that they are 
Moody said that some observers united in the sense of control, but say that the power will be in the behind all of the controls there is a military regions. He said, how-certain amount of tension. ever, that the military regions have He also said that the Red lost power since 1974. Chinese think that the world is ripe 
The Politburo is the highest level for revolution. Although they of authority in the party. The top consider themselves self-reliant, leaders are members of the Polit-they are interested in the develop­bum Standing Committee. Only ing countries of Africa and Asia. four men remain in the Politburo Regarding Russia, Moody said, Standing Committee. Since Janu-"The moderates might want to ary, three members have died, have some peace with Russia. The including Mao and Chou en Iai. radicals probably don't," He also One was purged. mentioned that the Russians may 
Presently, the highest ranking take advantage of Mao's death to member in the party is Premier improve relations with Red China. Hua Kuo-Feng. However, he has If these two Communist countries been Premier only since April. come closer, this policy could hurt Professor Moody described him as the U.S. policy of baiftocing them "the first among equals." against each other. 
* ~*******************A Flanner Hall bus trip to the Northwestern game * *this Saturday. · Cost $17 -includes roundtrip bus ride, * * ticket to the game, free beer on the bus. * lt Call 1213 for reservations. * 
******************** 

Attn. CHICAGO CLUB MEMBERS 
It's time for more partying When: Sat. Sept. 25 Where: 125 5th St. (Y2 block North of Dyche Stadium ) 15 Kegs of Cold Beer! 
on sale beginning Wednesday, 
September 22, 1976 at the 

Student Union Ticket Office 
_1-4 pm Daily $5.00 


Shure Turntable Clinic 
SEPTEMBER 23-24 
FRI.-SAT. NOON UNTIL 7:00 P.M. 
Free----------------Free 

Find out now ! 
Any component type changer or turntable will be optimized FREEduring CLINIC hours only. Watch while your equipment is inspected for stylus wear, tracking force, turntable speed, anti-skate, phas­ing cross-talk, channel balance and track-ability. Inspection and adjustments made with Shure e-pek3 cartridge analyzer, oscilloscope and micro­scope. A Shure representative will perform the tests and be available to answer your questions. 
Special prices on SHURE CARTRIDGES. 


Only at 



421 No. Hickory Rd 232-2430 

Thursday, September 23, 1976 the observer 


Ford, Carter stand on diverse party platforms 
by Gregg Bangs expand social programs, as well as overturn Supreme Court decisions 
policy on government hearings; the
Executive Editor reduce unemployment. In some upholding abortions. Energy
founding of a independant consum­
cases, the government would be REPUBLICAN-"Supports the 
er agency; partial public financing 
Today's debate between President the employer of the jobs set up by efforts of those who seek enact­DEMOCRATIC-Calls for the res­
of congressional elections. 
Gerald Ford, the Republican nom­their programs. ment of a constitutional amend­trictions on the rights of the oil 
inee, and Jimmy Carter, the Demo­cratic Presidential nominee, will focus on domestic issues Although both candidates have talked on several domestic io/'ues, many people have complained that their campaign-oriented rhetoric has made it hard to understand their respective stands. The only firm stand on certain issues seems to be found in the parties' plat­forms. 
The Republicans and Democrats have drawn up sharply differing platforms for their candidates. The Democrats want to continu~ and 
New Student Congress searches for new issues 
by Bob Varettoni Staff Reporter 

Lack of controversy may be a major problem for the new Student Body Congress. according to Ken Gtrouard, executive coordinator of Student government affiars. 
Girouard said the lack of ·an issue to focus on may affect the unity which is the goal of the congress. The congress includes representatives from the HPC, the SLC,-Student Government, Student Union and class officers. 
This will be the first full year for the Student Body Congress. Mike Gassman, student body president, included a provision for the coner­ess in his campaign platform. The congress met once before, in the middle of last .semester. 
Gassman explained why he formed the organization. "Two years ago," he said, "when the calendar question was raised, all the student organizations came out with different statements. This year-we want to have a congress that would be able to present a united student proposal." 
This year's first meeting will be 

PLACEMENT BUREAU 
Main Building 
INTERVIEWS SCHEDULED FOR WEEK OF OCTOBER 4 
Interviews are for seniors and graduate students. Sign-up schedules are in Room 213, Main Building. Interview times must be signed for in person. Law School sign-ups are at the Pre-Law Society Bulletin Boards, O'Shaughnessy Hall. The sign-up period at the Placement' Bureau will be from 8:00am. to 5:00pm., Monday through Thursday. 
OCT. 4 Ayr-Way Stores. 

~ All BBA. (December grads~) Cities Service Co. B in ChE and ME. Old Kent Bank and Trust Co. All BBA. Syracuse University, Grada School of Management. All bachelor degree candidates. 
OCT, 4/5 Texaco Inc. Mon/Tues B in CE, EE, Geol. BM in ChE, ME. 
OCT. 4/5/b Alexander Grant & Co. Mon/Tues/ B in Acct. MBA with Acct. background or concentration. Wed (Will interview on the &th if demand warrants) 
OCT. 5 Combined Insurance Company of America. Tues B in AL, BA and SC. 
OCT. 6 Cabot Corp. Stellite Division. 
Wed B in Mkt. Clow Corp. B in HE, MEIO, Acct. All BBA fer Sales. Northern Illinois Gas Co. B in ME, EE, CE. 
OCT. b/7/8 Navy Department Wed/Th/ Officer Programs, Navy Recruiting District. Fri BM in EG and SC, Econ. BBA•and MBA. 
OCT. 7 HHcules Inc. 

Thurs. BM in ChE and Chern. Geo. S. Olive & Co. B in Acct. MBA with Acct background or concentration. 
OCT, 7/8 Dow Ghemical U.S.A, 

Th/Fri BM in ChE, ME and Chern. Standard Oil Company of California. BM in ChE and ME 
OCT. 8 Insurance Services Office. 

~ BM in Math. Mobil Oil Corp. B in AL and BA for Marketing R'ep-Resale. B in ME, MEIO, EE, CE. BM in ChE. 
U.S. Government/Federal Agencies Not Otherwise Listed. BM in all disciplines. 
Employer Information. Alternatives. Teaching. Summer. Action/Peace Corps/Vista. Federal Service, Room 213, Administration Bldg. 9/22/76 
t \ •, ·~ . I I 
0 ,• 
The Republicans favor limited ggvernment and encouragement to the private sector of the economy. 
Listed below are the party stands on several domestic issues. The third opinion is that of the Notre Dame Mock Convention Platform, which took place last March. 
Abortion 

DEMOCRATIC Although it rec­ognizes religous and ethical con­cerns, it is against any attempt to amend the U.S. Constitution to 
held Wednesday night, Sept. 29, in the LaFortune auditorium. Student leaders will report on their own organizations and. Gassman said. "We want people to talk back to them." • 
One of the issues which may be disucssed. according to Giroua­rd, is the problem of off-campus security. Gassman said that he would stress the importance of the upcoming budget hearings. Both expressed hope that the congress would encourage better communi­cation between the different stude­nt organizations. 
"Last year." Girouard said, "the congress lacked direction. It was more of a social event." 
Gassman added that no one knew what to expect, but that this year it would be different. ''This year, instead of a series of reports, we will have more discussion. We learned from our mistakes." he said. 
Gassman and Girouard both hoped that the congress could meet at least twice this semester. The congress will meet again later this semester to evaluate the effects of Wednesday's meeting. 
companies to own all phases (ver­tical ownership) of the oil industry when competition is poor. Would also call for a ban against vertical ownership of alternative energy sources. 
REPUBLICAN-Opposes divesti­ture of the major oil companies. (continued to page 4) 
arm 
Barber & Hair Style Shop 
a. 
Open six days a ~ week ·
n
Mon-Fri 8 to 5 :30 
Sat 8 to 3:00 
d 
1437 N. Ironwood South Bend Appointment only 0 
277-0615 ' 
s 
Close to Campus 

ment to restore protection of the right to life for unborn children." 
MOCK-no person or law has the right to deny or destroy any developing human life and its chance to be an become. Abortion may be permissible in rare cases to save the life of the mother or in case of rape." 
The platform also calls for better services for unwed mothers, free dissemination of birth control liter­ature and more comprehensive supportive cou seling. 
.Economy 

DEMOCRATIC-They promise "to make every responsible effort" to reduce adult unemployment to 3 percent within four years. An anti-inflation policy would also be employed. It would include a strong domestic council on wage and price stability and the linking of the minimum wage to the price of living. The tax system would also be overhauled. 
REPUBLICAN-Deficit spending would be curtailed as a way of reducing unemployment and infla­tion. They reject public employ­ment programs and wage-price controls. Tax incentives would be REPUBLICAN calls for: Com­plete overhaul of government 
agneices;  replacement  of  more  
federal  social  programs  by  block  
grants.  Would  repeal  the  legi­ 

slatio· which guarentees set pay raise~ for Congress. 
MOCK wants: More stringent rules regarding classification of government material. All contro­versies regarding government sec­recy should be settled at an in-camera review by three Frederal District Court Judges. The abolish­ment of the seniority system. Federal finacial aid to candidates should be considered under certain ;:ircumstances. There should be a 
'reevaluation of the national pri­
mary system and the electoral 
college should be abandoned. 
Equal Rights Amendment 
DEMOCRATIC* REPUBLICAN 
AND MOCK-All three support the passage of the Equaf · Rights Amendment, which bans discrim­ination against women. 
. 

offered for investment. 
MOCK-The Federal Reserve Board would be encouraged to stimulate economic growth by maintaining a constant increase in the money supply. It would encour­age the diversity of funds from the military and wasteful government committees to the upgrading of social conditions "here at home." The government should consider creating public jobs on the local level to "fill a true need." 
Government 
DEMOCRATIC favors: required reorganization timetabes; zero­based budgeting required pro­grams to constantly demonstrate their usefulness; an open-door 



WHAT'S 
/ 
REALLY 
HAPPE 

ON CAMPUS? 
Bringing you up to date on the wonderful world of higher education, the October issue of PLAYBOY features our ever-popular Campus-Action Chart, showing where the collegiate fun is (and isn't) these days. Plus our 1976 Student Poll on current student attitudes and behavior, guaranteed to knock you right off your preconceived notions. 
PLAYBOYfJ® OnSale Now 

Nei~hborhood Study Help Pro~ram begins fall semester with organizil;tional meeting Mon. Sept. ·23 7:30 La Fortune Ballroom Any questions call Tom 272-4965 
Mary 284-4405 Maggie 
284-4964 



Activities, GPA decide med-schoo/ admissions 
by Marian Ulicny Staff Reporter 
; Medical school admissions boa­rds are giving increased attention to the applicant as a person in addition to his statistical backgrou­nd. 
Mr. John Huber, Notre Dame Preprofessional btudies staff prof­essional specialist, stated, "It is my impression of admissions boar­ds that they really want to get behind the figures and definitely look at the human side of the student." 
However, grades and standard­
ized board scores are the primary 
objective sources that admissions 
boards first consider. 

It is necessary for a medical school applicant to take the Medic­al College Admission Test (MCA­T). This test will be given in the Engineering Auditorium, Oct. 2, and a second date to be announced later. 
According to Fr. Joseph Walter, C.S.C.. Chairman of Preprofessioal Studies, Notre Dame students who were accepted into medical schools this year scored in the 70th percentile of the MCAT. The averages of all Notre Dame stude­nts who took the test were 581 in verbal, 628 in quantitative (math­ematics), 551 in general informati­on and 633 in science. 
Huber's statistics on 1976 Notre Dame graduates who applied to medical schools show that 94 percent of those with a 3.5 grade point average (GPA) were accepted by at least one school. 79 percent were accepted with a GPA from 3.49-3.25 and 65 percent with a 3,24-3.0 GPA were accepted. 
Because a large percentage of graduates with lower averages were accepted, Huber stressed that factors other than numerical ones were weighed by admissions boar­ds. He stated, "Faculty appraisals are very important as the only indication of the human dimension of the student.'' 
Activities outside the classroom are also reviewed, noted Huber, 

expecially "anything with medical­
ly related experience as a measure 
of how much time the student is 
willing to give to others." Examp­
les of such experience are involve­
ment in the tutoring program or 
volunteer work at Logan Center, 
area nursing homes, or hospitals. 
The primary objective of the 

applicant is obtaining a personal 
interview, Huber stressed. The 
entire bulk of information is revie­
wed before interviews are granted 
so it is to the student's advantage 
to include as much qualifying 
personal evidence as possible. 
At Indiana University 

Dr. Robert Stump of the Indiana University Medical School admiss­ions office quoted its bulletin as stating: "Students are given a place in the class on the basis of scholarship, character, personality, health, and performance on the MCAT." 
Stump added that the general GPA is 3.2 for an Indiana resident and 3.5 for a non-resident. 
Extracurricular activities and academic and personal letters of reference are considered, but the primary emphasis is placed upon the interview. 
Stump explained, "The purpose of the interview is to tie the application to unusual performance 
review the specifics, and try to see how the applicant presents himself and states his reasons for going into medicine." 
"Essentially, it is turning a pile of paper into a human being." he added. 
According to Dr. McBryan, St. Louis University Medical School registrar, students accepted gene­rally have a GPA of 3.6 and score in the 80th percentile in math and science and slightly lower in verbal and general information on the MCAT. 
McBryan stated that grades are viewed as significant because they are somewhat objective. 
A committee evaluation which includes recores of extracurricular activities and volunteer work is required of each applicant to St. Louis. If such an evaluation is not possible, references are submitted from a biology, chemistry and non-science professor. 
McBryan added that every app­lication is considered individually for an interview. Last year, 1500 out of 7500 applications were granted interviews. 
Applicants to the Northwestern Medical School last year had average GPA's from 3.3 to 3.4 and scored in the 65th percentile on the MCAT. Those accepted averaged a 
3.6 GPA and an MCAT score in 
the 80th percentile. However, objectives are only a part of the whole procedure, accor­..:ling to an admissions spokesman, who stated, "We pay a great deal of attention to what a student says about himself in an application and to the way he used time outside the classroom as well as in." 
Interviews are conducted after every application is reviewed. 
Dr. John Schultz, Assistant Dean of Admissions for the Washinton University Medical School, stated that acceptees usually have average MCAT scores of 615 in verbal, 690 in quantitative, 570 in general information and 660 in science and a GPA of 3.65. He added, "But numbers .do not tell the entire story." 
''Every medical school tries to do a comp~ehensive j'?~· ~·schultz 
explatneo. ·-vv e hold very, very significant recommendations that come in support of a candidate." 
In addition to grades, the admis­sions board evaluates a candidate's communication skills, personal ch­aracter and maturity, motivation, and concern index in addition to interests and social service. 
According to Schultz, the Medic­al School tries to distribute its acceptance widely, with only 10 percent coming from Washington University ·graduates. Due to faculty preference in the private school, students with goals of research or faculty medicine are granted a slight advantage In the case of. larger, state medical school, the emphasis leans toward general medicine. 

Law school schedules program to discuss new tax reform act 
The Notre Dame Estate Planning 
Institute, scheduled for Sept. 30 and Oct. 1, will consider the Tax Reform Act of 1976, passed by Congress on Sept. 16. The program, sponsored by the Notre Dame Law school and the South 
ND Art Gallery has open house 
The Notre Dame Art Gallery will begin a series of Thursday evening "open houses" in an effort to make the cultural center available to a greater number of Michiana area residents who are unable to visit during the regular 10 a.m. to 5 
p.m. hours. The 7 to 9 p.m. talks and programs will be open to the public without charge. 
Faculty members of the Univers­ity's Art Department will open the series with a discussion of their current contributions to the Faculty Art Exhibit during a program beginning at 7:30 p.m. tonight in 
. the Gallery's West Room. 


Lugar campaigns for minority vote 
INDIANAPOLIS AP--Republican Senate nominee Richard G. Lugar has stepped up his efforts to win support from traditionally Demo­cratic voters, including blacks. 
"We see the potential to break through into new constituencies, including ethnics and blacks," Mitch Daniels, one of Lugar's key aides, said Monday during a tele­phone interview with the Associat­ed Press. "That's why we're going to Lake County.'' 
However, an aide to Democratic Sen. Vance Hartke disputed that claim , saying, "We expect to do extremely well in the black areas of the state. In our estimation, Richard Lugar has very little oppor­tunity to make inroads into a place like Lake County." 
"I can't understand why any urban blacks would support Lug­ar," added Mike Ungersma, Hart­ke's aide, during another telephone interyiew. He predicted Lugar would also fare poorly among ethnic groups. 
Acknowledging Democratic pres­idential nominee Jimmy Carter's strength among Indiana blacks, Lugar supporters Monday urged blacks to split their ticket and vote for the former Indianapolis mayor. 
"During the next six weeks, we will be calling upon black citizens to consider the merits of split-ticket voting, and to vote for Dick Lugar whatever their choices in other 
Parties propose different social service programs 
[continued from page 3] 
calls for an end of price controls on 
oil and natural gas and pushes for 
development of Alaskan oil re­serves. 
Social services 

DEMOCRATIC-Calls for a fed­erally financed, comprehensive national health insurance program; a reduction of the health prices of the elderly; prevention of the qissolution of Social Security bene­fits; a plan for minimum income guarantees for poor and elderly citizens. 
REPUBLICAN-Against guaran­teed national income; opposed national health insurance program in favor of catastrophic-illness pro­tection. Against mandatory retire­ment at certain ages; improve the Medicare program to control cost increases. Would make the Social Security system sound, without a raise in cost to employers. Increase amounts that retired persons may earn without losing benefits. 
MOCK-Family Planning Infor­mation Servcies are available to anyone. The increased funding for health services for the elderly, such as: health education, medical screening for diseases, dental care, meals-on-wheels, homemakers and activity programs for nursing homes. Raising of appropriations for the Older American Community Service Employment Program. Fin­ancial aid to inner city schools is also favored. 
contests,"said the Reverend And­rew Brown, Marion County director of Black Citizens for Lugar Com­mittee. 
"As mayor, Dick Lugar set an example for local officials across the country in terms of compassion, openness and;:ffectiveness in solv­ing urban problems, Brown contin­ued. "His dealings with the black community were honest and sensi­tive." 
Hartke, on Monday, offered a different picture of Lugar's deal­ings with the black community. 
"Where will Richard Lugar be when the Humphrey-Hawkins bill is re-introduced next January?" the senator asked. "Will he support this measure that will help end black unemployment, unem­ployment that is twice as high as for any group in our society?" 
Lugar previously has expressed his opposition to the bill, calling it inflationary. 
During a visit to Lake County over the weekend, Lugar met with college students and set up a 25-person steering committee to run his campaign in that area. The northwest county, Daniels said, is the one place in the state Lugar trails Hartke. 
He provided no figures, but cited an unreleased poll, which he saig was conducted by Market Opinion Research for the GOP State Comm­ittee in late July. Eight of the state's 11 congressional districts were surveyed at that time, Daniels said, and Lugar led in all but the First District. 
Political observers believe the 
margin by which Hartke wins in 
Lake County could be a key factor 
in the election. It was in the largely 
industrial area that Hartke built up 
a big enough lead last May to tum 
aside the renomination challenge 
mounted by Rep. Philip Hayes. 
~ 

Bend Estate Planning Council, will be held at the Center for Continu­ing Education. 
Regis Campfield, ND law school professor, announced the planning committee has expanded the pro­gram to allow a detailed look at "This extraordinary and far-reach­ing legislation." 
"The new estate and gift tax law represents the first change in 30 years in estate and gift taxes," Campfield said. "More important­ly, the bill completely changes the very structure of the estate and gift taxation as it has been known for 70 years," he stated .• 
Professor Lawrence Jegen, Ind­iana Law School, will outline the bill in a two-hour presentation, while other guest speakers will discuss separate parts of the bill. 
The program is open to attorn­eys, trust officers, certified public accountants and life insurance 
representatives. FAST TYPEWRITER J 
REPAIR fl:l:l:'t!.. -2915 Mishawaka Ave.  · .  




O
KTOBERFEST. '76 . ' 
is coming to SMC ... 
Be prepared! I 

I 


ND KARATE CLUB 
Master Instructor: Raymond Sell 1973 World Champion 
• 

New classes starting , Enrollment Welcome 
6:00 to 8:00 in Wrestling room, ACC. 
For more information contact Jake Thompson 1846 
ATTENTION St. Mary's FRESHMEN!!!!! 
Nominations are open today Sept. 23 for Freshmen Class Officers­
Candidates must run on a 'ticket. 
Submit ticket and typed platform to 
Carla lacona 413 Le Mans. 4728 
Important Dates .. 
23rd Sept: Open Nominations 30th Sept: Close Nominations at Midnigh1 l-6 Od: Campaigns 
s Od: Meet the candidates Night Clubhouse 8-9 :30 7 Od: Eledion 
.. . 



Ford ready for initial debate; ignores charges 
by Barbara Breitenstein Senior Staff Reporter 

In the final days prior to his debate with Democratic opponent Jimmy Carter, President Ford pro­mised tax relief, held dress rehear­sals for the debate and ignored charges that a lobbyist for the U.S.Steel Corp. paid for. golf out­ings for Ford. 
The first nationally-televised de­bate between Ford and Carter will take place tonight at 8:30 EST in Philadelphia. The debate, which will be televised by all three major networks and the Public broadcast­ing System, will cover economic and domestic issues. 
Promises Tax ReUef 

In response to Carter's state­ments last weekend on Federal tax adjustments, Ford contended Mon­day that Carter was proposing to increase Federal taxation of middle income families. "This Adminis­tration will give you tax relief,'' Ford stated, "because it is good for America.'' 
Ford portrayed Carter's proposal to transfer the tax burden from the lower and middle-income Ameri­cans to the wealthy as ''burden­some to half of the nation's taxpayers," according to a Sept. 20 story in the New York Times. 
The President was addressing about 100 farm credit executives in the White House garden, pledging he would "never increase taxes for the working people of our coun­try." 
''Those who advocate additional expenditures," Ford alluded to Carter, "have now suggested that in order to pay for those new programs and added expenditures, there should be an additional tax 
Jurist contributes pay to accused murderer 
SOUTH BEND* Ind. [AP] -A member of the jury that acquitted an accused murderer 'last month says she will contribute her jury <?ompensation to help the man pay for his defense against other murd­er char&es. 
Jeanne Emmick said yesterda; the money will go to help Gerald Liebertowski, a former South Bend contractor. 
Liebertowski. 33. was acquitted Aug. 6 of the murder of Janeice Langs, 21. of South Bend. The woman disappeared in late 1973, but no body was found. 
"I consider that the judicial system has treated Jerry Lieberto­wski with gross irresponsibility. I could not believe that he was put on trial. not by a grand jury indictme­nt, but by an affidavit from a man who was a prime murder suspect. They never could prove an act of VIOlence." she said. 
One of the state's witnesses was a man who testified Liebertowski had told him about the killings. 
Mrs. Emmick said a defense witness who was to testify that Liebertowski's accuser was involv­ed in the disappearance could not be found for the trial. "His mother thinks he's dead," she said. 
Other defense witnesses were not allowed to testify because of minor points. she said. 
Mrs. Emmick. 32. said the case never should have been brought to trial and the judge should not have 
thrown It out ot court. "The witnesses contradicted each other ­it was incredible." she said. 
Liebertowski is fighting extradit­ion to Michigan where he is charged with the murder of Jan K. Sanders. 24. of Niles. Mrs. Sanders disappeared last summer, no trace of her was found. 
Police said both women disappe­ared after living with Liebertowski at his home in South Bend. 
"He was reallv tried for his morality." Mrs. E~·nmick said. She said seven jurors voted for acquittal on the first vote and the 
rest came around atter they realiz­
ed that the state had not proved 
that Miss Langs had died or that 
Liebcrtowski was involved. 
Mrs. Emmick saicl she had no plans to JoJelp Licbertowski's attor­neys because she didn't think she could be effective. 
She said the jury money would be about $200, but she had not yet received the check from the county. 
"I don't think they're very enthusiastic about giving it to me,'' she said. 
Police hold auction 
by Kate Smelser Staff Reporter 

The South Bend Police Depart­ment will sponsor an auction of recovered, yet unclaimed, stolen goods Saturday, Sept. 25, behind the police station at 701 West Sample Street. The auction will begin at 10 am. · 
Consisting largely of bicycles and appliances, all the merchan­dise to be auctioned has awaited owner's reclamation for at least six months. Saturday's auction will dispose of a smaller inventory of stolen goods than usual. 
Even so, Captain James Mc­Mann, in charge of the aucrion, expects an average crowd. "If the weather is good Saturday, we should draw a couple hundred," McMann said. 
Articles to be auctioned will be displayed on the auctioneer's plat­form only during the bidding. According to McMann, displaying goods prior to the bidding invites theft. . 
Proceeds from the auction will be held in a general fund for one year, during which time anyone who recognizes that his own unclaimed property has been sold, may file a claim for retribution. At the end of the year, the money will be transferred to the police pension fund, according to state law. 
Police auctions are held every six months, in April and October, which is as often as the state law allows. In McMann's words the auction has been a semiannual event in South Bend for "as near as I can estimate, twenty years." 
STUDENT UNION PRESENTS 

one dollar admission engineering aud. Fri, Sat., Sept. 24,25 
7, lOpm 


levy on the middle-income people, which is approximately 50 percent of the taxpay,ers in this country," he said 
"We should go in the opposite direction," Ford continued. "We should give them tax relief, not additional taxes." 
Senator Robert Dole, Ford's running mate, and other Republi­can officials have noted the the median income in 1974 was $12,836 and that Carter was proposing raising taxt:s for everyone above that income level. 
The tax revision issue seemed likely to become a focal point of the first Ford-Carter debate tonight, according to the Times story. 
Ford Pradlces for Debate 
President Ford held dress re­and ability. "He wants to appear informed, decisive and experienced while picturing Carter as the opposite, " stated a Ford aide. 
Records Subpoenaed 
While the President prepares for his apprearance tonight, Ford spokesmen are ''brushing aside'' reports that accused Ford of ac­cepting golf outings from a lobbyist for U.S. Steel Corp. while Ford was a congressman. 
White House spokesman Ron Nessen said Ford was twice the guest of William Whyte, the lobby­ist, at the Pine Valley Golf Club near Clementon, N . .l., according to anAP story. 
"If the President thought there was anything wrong." Nessen stated, "he wouldn't have done it." The President thought of it as merely ''going to play golf with a friend of long standing," Nessen said. 
The White House is also ignoring reports that Watergate special prosecutor Charles Ruff has sub­poenaed records from the Republi­can party in Kent County. Ford's home county in Michigan. Ruff has also subpoenaed political contribut­ions records from the Marine Engineers Beneficial Association. which made the largest single contribution to Ford's 1972 cam­paign for Congress. 
There was no "overriding concern" about the subpoenaes in the White House, David Gergen, Ford's special counsel reported. 

hearsals for the debate at the White House yesterday, answering' questions aimed at him from aides 
Attention Junior Class 
acting as reporters. Aides sy this rehearsal is to 
Buses for northwestern leave at 10: am. 
polish his responses to questions that may be asked before the 
Sat. from CCE. Must bring ticket & ID 
national audience, according to a story by Dave Riley of the Associat­
Any. questions Call 

ed Press. Ford planned to perform before videotape cameras that wou­
Pat 1854 ld allow him to replay and refine his 
or 

responses, his aides explained. The President is hoping to dispel 
Marylou 8148 

any doubts about his intelligence 

Ul'liTED STATES READING LAB OFFERS SPEED READING COURSE AT NOTRE DAME 
United States Reading Lab will offer a 4 week course in speed reading to a limited number of qualified people at Notre Dame. 
This recently developed method of 
instruction is the most innovative and ef. 
fective program available in the United 
States. _ Not only does this famous course reduce your time in the classroom to just one class per week for 4 short weeks but it 
also includes an advanced speed reading course on cassette tape so that you can continue to improve for the rest of your 
life. In just 4 weeks the average student should be reading 4-5 times faster. In a few months some students are reading 20-30 times faster attaining speeds that approach 6000 words per minute. In rare instances speeds of up to 13,000 wpm have been documented. 
Our average graduate should read 7-10 times faster upon completion of the course with marked improvement in comprehension and concentration. 
For those who would like additional 
information, a series of free, one hour, 
orientation lectures have been schedules. 
At these free lectures the course will be 
explained in complete detail, including 
classroom procedures, instruction meth­
ods, class schedule and a special 1 time 
only introductory tuition that is less than 
one-half the cost of similar courses. You 
must attend any of the free meetings for 
information about Notre Dame classes. 
These orientations are open to the 
public, above age 14 (persons under 18 
should be! accompanied by a parent if 
possible). 
If you have always wanted to be a speed reader but found the cost prohibi­tive or the course too time consuming ... now you can! Just by attending 1 evening · per week for 4 short weeks you can read 7 to 10 times faster, concentrate better and comprehend more. 
If you are a student who would like to make A's instead of B's or C's or if you are a business person who wants to stay abreast of today's everchanging acceler­ating world then this course is an absolute necessity. 
These free special one-hour lectures will be held at the following times and places. 
NOTRE DAME MEETINGS 
Tuesday: Sept. 21, at 6:30 p.m.: and 
again at 8 :30 p.m. Wednesday: Sept. 22, at 6:30 p.m. and again at 8 :30 p.m. 
Thursday: Sept. 23, at 6:30p.m. and 
again at 8:30p.m. Friday: Sept. 24, at 6:30 p.m. and again at 8:30p.m. 
Sunday: Sept. 26, at 2:30 p.m. and again 
at 5:30p.m. Monday: Sept. 27, at6:30 p.m. and again at 8:30p.m. 
TWO FINALMEETINGS 
Tuesday: Sept. 28, at 6:30 p.m. and again at 8:30p.m. 
THESE MEETINGS WILL BE HELD AT NOTRE DAME CENTER FOR CONTIN­UING EDUCATION 
If you are a businessman, student, housewife or executive this couse, which took 5 years of intensive research to develop, is a must. You can read 7 -10 times faster, comprehend more, concen­trate better, and remember longer. 
Students  are  offered  and  additional  
discount.  This course  can  be taught to  
tindustry  or  civic  groups  at  "Group  

rates" upon request. Be sure to attend whichever free orientation that fits best In your schedule. 
Box Q, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 ~ 
Phone•(219)283-8661 [NO]
r-%The Observer 
(219)284-5365 [SMC] an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's 
EDITORIAl BOARD 
The Observer is published by students of the University of Thomas O'Neil Editor-in-ChiefNotre Dame and St. Mary's College. It does not necessarily Dan Sanchez Managing Editorreflect the policies of either institution. The news is reported Chris Smith Asst. Managing Ed.
as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials Gregg Bangs Executive Editorrepresent the opinion o(a majority of the Editorial Board. 
Val Zurblis Executive EditorCommentaries, opinions and letters are the views of their Pat Hanifin Editorial Editorauthors. Column space is available to all members of the Bob Mader Exec. News Editorcommunity, and letters are encouraged to promote the free Maureen Flynn Campus Editorexpression of varying opinions on campus. 
Marti Hogan St. Mary's Editor 
Business Manager Tom Fronczak Don Reimer Copy Editr,r
Advertising Manager Mike Miller Tim O'Reiley Features Editor F:10to Editor Tony Chifari 
FrPd Herbst Sports Editor Production Manager Martha L. ~="anning 
Thursday, September 23, 1976 
Tweedledee, Tweedledum 
Whatever the effect on campaign practical difference. President Ford sets rhetoric, the bishops' meetings with Carter himself up as the champion of the andFordhave made no practical difference anti-abortion forces, and the bishops are in changing the abortion laws. Ford and "encouraged" by his stand. Yet all he Carter are playing Tweedledee and favors is an amendment that would let Tweedledum. For all their verbage, they each state set its own policy regardinghave no real differences on the issue worth abortion. Of course many states would swinging a vote over. choose to keep the current liberal laws,This is not surprising, considering that allowing all but the very poor to cross state 
both are under the same pressures. For lines to get abortions. politicians, abortion is a no-win issue. It 
So, the bishops are deluding themselves breeds fanatics on both sides the way if they think that their interviews with the desert rain breeds cactus. No matter which 
side a politician takes, he is going candidates are going to help their cause. It
to 

is fine that the bishops are standing up foralienate voters--and Carter and Ford both the moral issues they think are crucial for need every vote they can get. Abortion is a the country--that is the right and "duty ofyes-no question with little room for every American. But if they see acompromise. Whatever the Supreme difference between the Ford and CarterCourt's intent, the result of Roe vs. Wade positions, then they have studied too muchamounts to abortion on demand and the hair-splitting theology and too little prac­Court is not going to reverse itself in the tical politics. 
foreseeable future. Either you support a constitutional amendment oveiTuling the Abortion is a valid national issue and Court or you acquiesce to the status quo. one of the great moral questions facing our 
So both candidates hedge, seeking a country today. But it is not an issue verbal compromise in place of the impos­between Carter and Ford. However you sible real one. Carter declares that he is decide to vote in November, decide on the personally against abortion; but since he real differences between the candidates--­also opposes any constitutional amend­not on whether Tweedledee or Tweedle­ment, his personal opposition makes no dum does the fancier footwork. 
opinion!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!J!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
Dogma is for the Birds 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiifr. robert griffin 
"Only the Children of Adam," responsibility of behaving as any a roaring lion, seeking someone to writes Father Kerby (Observer, well brought-up, carefully trained, devour? · September 21), "composing the thoroughly domesticated beast two species of human beings and should behave ·in order to be If Father Kerby finds that his clerics, have inherited Adam's regarded as a hound of heaven, own pets have turned against him, 
propensity to sin." It is easy for then next year, he and I are looking so that "I am doomed to perpetual 
him, with his one parakeet, to say for work at Purdue. darkness in this subterranean dun­that. It is easy for him, who has As for the aberrant, self-serving geon," would it be iRdelicate of me never raised a cocker spaniel, to theology of the parakeet, Basil to suggest that the fault is his own write that "the rest of God's Byrd--who, among the Baptists for trusting too much in "animal creation, from the lilies of the field back home, ever dreamed I would blessedness"? He knows better to the birds of the air, have no need be arguing theology with a para­than that now (I hope he does), 
to sow or reap, nor any obligation keet? It is one of the follies of Rome after the mess he's in with those 
to work for grace." What does he that the Baptists never dreamed birds. By admitting the horrors of know of the disgr-ace of soiled of--1 suspect that fellow cleric his own situation, will he concede carpets; of chewed-up chasubles, Kerby should check that wingster's to me as winner of this argument 
thrown down in fits of carelessness genealogy.with the Auduobon Soc­on whether creatures be guiltless? by archbishops investigating the iety: to Bob Kerby, Basil may seem Or perhaps he likes having as his Keenan-Stanford chapel;of ravished like a parakeet; to the rest of us, he only companion an inquisitorial 
squirrels I and Easter bunnies sounds like an albatross. raven perched atop his rack, per­gnawed down to the nubs of their "Only Adam's sons, daughters, petually muttering, in loco par­charming ears; of dining halls and clergy have been cast forth entis, the verdict: "Nevermore!" crashed night after night by the from Eden," says Basil's haughty (Kerby's description of his fate, not Uninvited Guest who refuses to be argument.. But Yahweh God in mine.) discouraged from supping? Ask the Genesis, tells the serpent: "Be Ah, old friend Kerby, the world loyal maids of Keenan and Stanford accursed beyond all cattle, all wild suffers from the cult of cuteness; whether such a creature as Darby beasts,"; which seems to imply but the real world should never be O'Gill ever sins. Ask the Security that serpents, cattle, and beasts confused with Disneyland with its Guard who arrested him two years are, everyone of them, in some deified mouse. Real animals are ago for running loose on campus measure cursed. Paul writes in never so merely cuddley as the without a leash, and actually Romans 8: "It was not for any fault Velveteen Rabbit or as virtuous and 
brought him to my door in hand­on the part of creation that it was preachy as Smokey the Bear. The cuffs. Ask the administrator who, made unable to attain its purpose, comfort of Blake's poem on the in the summer of 1971, banished it was made so by God; but creation Lamb dissipates into dread when O'Gill from the campus for two still retains the hope of being freed one moves into the realm of the semesters for fecal indescretions like us, from Its slavery to deca­"Tyger, Tyger, burning bright, in ~ommitted in the corridors of dence. Ah, that "slavery to ·deca­the forests of the night." Those Carroll liall, to the distress and dence"! And why, if the rest of English romantics who found God Jutrage of some visiting nuns. creation Is as free as Basil says it is in the daffodils of the Lake Country 
Parents, complaining of permis­of the effects of Adam's nibbling at had too pretty a theology to be >ive attitudes in their college-age the fruit, are animals in Scripture really at home with the sabre-tooth :hildren,sometimesl say: "If that is so· often pictured as being of the tiger, though Melville confronted vhat those priests are teaching you Devil's party: from the serpent, fo the daffodil-sniffers with the incar­1t Notre Dame, then nextyear you the Gerasene swine, to the dragon nate evil ·of the marauding shark: 
:an stay home and go to business of the Apocalypse, to the beast that "Whether white man's god or :ollege at night." And I say, if looked like a leopard, with paws Nantucket god," says Queequeg, )arby, on this Catholic campus, is like a bear, and a mouth like a lion? more or less, "de god dat made de :o be tau~ht that his "state of Why does Peter warn us that our shark am one damn bad injun." nnocence' excuses him from the adversary, the Devil, goes about as [Continued to page 8] 
DOONESBURY by Garry Trudeau 

Frosh Beware: 
N.D. Excuses 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii m ike rich t e r 
Warning: Th-ere are several hit a person in a bad mood, or 
widespread excuses around that someone who just doesn't want to 
become self-fulfilling prophecie,s. take the time to talk to you. Forget 
They are excuses that come true it. Such a setback, although some­
only if no action is attempted to times painful; should not be mag­
make them false. They start out as nified. It is worthwhile if it is a step 
imaginary, becoming reality only if of experience on the way to 
they are allowed to be. · meeting friends. , 
Here are the three favorite I assume most freshmen have 
excuses of the' Notre Dame cam-already hear:d the "What's-your­
pus. The first is a fill-in. "All.; major? ... Which-dorm? ... Wbere­
(N.D.; SMC.) (guys; girls) are do-you-come from?" conversation. 
(bitches; bastards)." The second Some of you may have gotten sick 
excuse is not only false, but of it. Understandably so. Such 
assumes that human beings are conversations, especially if they are 
property to be obtained. "Every-repeated many times, are mundane 
one else gets all the (girls; guys)." at best. Unfortunately, . the sub­
The third is an excuse that some-stance of this conversation can be 
how absolves the speaker from all important if you are trying to get to 
blame. "There's never a thing tot know an individual. What they are 
do around here." (Who's fault is majoring in is part of them. If they 
that?) haven't decided yet, that also says ,.,. 
There are many havnces to somethi11g about them. Relation­
socialize here, if someone is willing ships, frie~dships must start some­
to take ~ chance. · where. MaJors may not be the most 
It is Important, if one is to keep interesting 1 place to start, but 
one's sanity around here, to have where a relationship starts doesn't 
friends who share values to talk to. matter as much as how the relation­
Sometimes thirigs start closing in ship grows once started. 
like walls. It helps to have people Starts better than "What's your 
who understand you, who can major?" can be anything theologic­
identify with problems, who can al, political, philosophical, my­
just be there. stical, dealing with sports, studies, 
Almost no one comes here with feelings about home· or N.D. or 
many friends from high school. comparisons between the two. 
Most of us are obliged to go out and Much of your conversational style 
meet friends. Sitting in you~ room depends on your personal style and 
will not help. Consistantly getting interests. I've known people to 
drunk does not help. . introduce themselves and ask, 
A very good place to start "What do you want to talk about?" 
freshmen, (if you haven't started It depends on you and the other 
already), is the Freshman ·Year person. 
cookouts. They will be held on On« hint for talking with the Fridays, September 17 and 24 at opposite sex: It is very difficult to 8:30, behind the Freshman Year talk to anyone intelligently if you Office, in the Brownson Hall court-· are trying to figure out how he-she yard. If you don't know where the is in bed. This stilts the conversa­Freshman Yearoffice is, find out. tion, and creates a very inhibiting 
· The cookouts are great for meet-situation in which no one comes off ing people in a relaxed atmos-naturally. Learning how a person phere, away from studies, away thinks, being with someone, ·talk­from schedules. Once you get ing with someone and not thinking there, it is important to start "sex," is a liberating feeling conversations, to introduce your-because you are free to think of self. Starting conversations should more possibilities than just bed. not be limited only to cookouts, Part of the problem here is peer though. It is a good idea anywhere, pressure. People who don't want inside the dorm, the classroom or to fight it, give in. Unfortunately, the dining hall. If you are afraid the only way to beat the probJem is you'll goof it, don't worry, start a for individuals to 'stand firm against conversation anyway. Other people overt or implied pressures to do are like you, and appreciate it when something the feel is not right. someon~ else has the courage to Although pre~sure of this kin~ is start. It 1s always a gamble to wait very hard to 1gnore, by bemg for the other person to start: he-she yourself, respecting yourself and may not. Your attempts will usually putting out the effort to imprqve not end in disaster. yourself, you will earn esteem more 
If you try and it doesn't go, important than anyone else's ... remember that sometimes you'll your own. 

_.................................................................. 
Hello~ I'm Tony Bill 
Editor's Note: Tony Bill [N.D. '62] re· turned to his alma mater this week as a co-teacher in a film studies course. Since graduating, he has achieved a successful career as an actor and later producer [with such films as Taxi Driver, The Sting, and Harry and Walter Go to New York]. He was interviewed by Features Editor Tim O'Reiley. 
Observer: What brings a successful movie producer like you back to Notre Dame? Bill: Mainly the feeling that I'm at home. It's one of the few places in my life that I feel like going back to. I enjoy the university and academic atmosphere a lot; I like to teach. When Prof. Costello and I discussed teaching this class, it seemed like a great way to combine coming back and enjoying what I'm doing. Observer: How do you feel at home here? Bill: Well, it's the first place in my life where I felt I made friends, where I was learning about myself and my life in general. It's the place I was most comfortable, so in that sense it's home. Observer: What, in general, are the duties of the producer? Bill: The duties of the producer are basically to come up with the idea or the script of the book that the movie is made from, to raise the money necessary to hire the crew and the cast, and to find the money, to talk a studio into fmancing a picture. I am responsible for overseeing the picture through production and release. Observer: Could you give us a specjfic example making a movie, say The Sting? Bill: For The Sting, a young writer came into my office ~nd told me he had an idea for a script, talked to me about the base of the story, and I hired him based on my enthusiasm for the1idea. With Taxi Driver, two financial partners had a friend give them the script and they gave it to me. It was this writer's first script, and he has since gone on to become hot stuff. 
It took four years for the movie to get made. The only reason it got made was because it only cost $2 million, which is cheap these days. I had just come with The S.L,ing, and my two partners on the movie just had produced hits, so the presteige factor of us rose so that the studio finally said, ''All right, we'll let them make their little movie." The studio thought it was a long shot, a real stab ~n the dark. ObserVer: Did you then get on the phone to a studio and explain your idea? Bill: For The Sting, I' called up Rqbert Redford. who I knew, and told him I've got a script I think would be terrific for you, and he said, "Great, when it's finished, let me see it.'' So when I finis'hed, I sent him the script. and he called back and said, I'm really interested in it, and I really might d_o it. Let me think about it.'' Finally, he said he'd do it, so we took the script to a studio, and asked if they would like to-make t~e movie. It wasn't too hard. Observer: Does the studio handle the financing from there? Bill: Yes. / 
Observer: Now that the studio has the 
movie, what do you do from there? Blll: Then, you htre the rest of the actors, you hire the director, you budget the film you select the places where the movie is going to be filmed, you make sure everyone is getting paid and getting to the studio on time, that the day's work is getting done, that the day's work is good. You do a little bit of everything. Observer: Is there any set .way te produce a movie, or do you follow your own system? Bill: There's no one way to do it. Seemingly, there's no one way to get it done at all. Each time it seems to be an impossible task, and any time a movie gets made it is a minor miracle. It is very close to impossible to produce a movie. Observer: Why "Impossible?" 
Bill: Well, its not quite impossible, but you have to bring dozens of people together at one time, you have to have a script that's going to appeal to a lot of people, you have to have a lot of money, millions of dollars, to make the movte, you need someone who will say that they· will spend three, four, six, ten million dollars. or whatever is needed to complete the project. To assemble a script, a director, and actors to make someone say that they will spend those millions is very, very difficult. I've been able to do it about once a year, but I'm lucky. 
' 
Observer: So where do your main problems come from? Bill: Just with all the -little problems that people have that they bring with them to the movie, the problems that everyone has: the personal problems, the professional problems, the ego problems. The problem is to get a hundred people all to do a terrific job. If the makeup people are off, then the actors complain about it, and don't "'::ant to go in front of the cameras. Then the camera people complain about the schedule being thrown off. It can snow ball like this, and start costing a lot of money. 
Observer: This is spoken of as the era of Hollywood's decline. Far fewer pictures are being made now than during the '30's or '40's. Do you think Hollywood has lost its position as the movie capital of the world? Bill: No, Los Angeles is still the movie-making center of the world. I'd say it's just harder to get along in the movie business these days because there are so few pictures being made, and few jobs for everyone. Probably the pictures are more intresting and more varied on a percentage basis than there were before. The problem is, that SOo/o of the movies in 1940 meant about 100, while SOo/o today means about 20. I think that the percentages are still healthy, but I am not a student of the films, so I can't really compare. Observer: You're not? Bill: No, I'm not particularly interested or well-versed in the history of films, and I wasn't there in the 30' and 40's, so I don't know. 
But it must have been a 'lot more fun .. There was a lot more work then : so there was more job security, if you were a director, producer, or actor. You were in a very active industry. Today, I'm lucky if I get one picture a year done. Producers of bit hits can go four or five years without producing another, so I've been very lucky to put out one a year. That is the result of a lucky producer. And for every producer that is out of work, there are 100 or more other reople that can't work on a picture. Observer: Is there any usual way that you find. a script? ­Bill: I got the scripts fdr The Sting and Taxi Driver the way I told you. I got the script for Hearts of the West by meeting a guy in a bar who told me that he had just written his first script. I read it, thought it was pretty good, and wound up producing it. I get scripts from all kinds of sources, from agents, from phone calls, from meeting people on the street, from friends of friends of friends. Observer: I)o you follow any criteria when choosing a script? Bllli Nothing set. Basically, a script I would like to do is a movie I'd want to see. It could be any kind of movie: A comedy, a drama, a musical, a cartoon for that matter. The next picture I want to do is a little, inexpensive children's movie. So it could be anything, anything that seems to make sense. _ Observer: When you do chose a script, do you ever sense that It Is Oscar material, or a box-office hit? Bill: No, I didn't think The Sting would be as big a hit as it was, I didn't think Taxi Driver would be as big a. hit as it was, I thought Hearts of the West would do better than it did. So I'm probably always wrong. Not quite wrong, buf I have never accurately estimated with any degree of accuracy the success or failure of my pictures. No one knows. Not many people would even claim to know how well a movie will do. The business is littered with the corpses of sure-fire hits that didn't rpake it and little pictures that no one believed in or cared about, like American Grafftttl. Observer: Could you trace the road of your career for us? Bill: I got into the movies when I left college on a fluke, basically thanks to Fr. Sheeden, who-was the dean of my college at the time. He recommended me to a director in Hollywood as an actor. I quickly got in as an actor, and after eight years of that, I decided to produce. I talked a friend, who had just become the head of a studio, into putting up a little money to enable me to hire a writer. The script that the writer wrote became the first movie that I produced. That's how I made the transition. 
Tim O'Reiley 
Observer: How many movies have you done? Bill: I've acted in eight or nine, and have been involved in producing six. Observer: What was your ml\)or at Notre Dame? Bill: English and art. Observer: A great aura of opulence and glamour has surrounded Hollywood over the years. Do you find It that glamourous? 

Bill: It is probably as true there as It is in the oil business, or the automotive busi­nesslor the real estate business. There are people who have made a lot of m6ney and their lifestyles are reflected by that amount of money. But I don't see it, and I doubt if many people see it as glamourous. It's too much work. You don't have time for the Palm Beach element. It's just like any other business, such as politics. It may look attractive and sensational from the outside, but to the people actually involved in the profession, it is work just like everything else. Observer: What kind of work schedule do you keep? Bill: I have my own office building, staff, mini screening and editing rooms. I go to work at about 9:00p.m., and I work every day until about 6:00p.m. I must admit that some days I decide not to go to work, and I go sailing. Or during the winter, I sometimes take a week off and go skiing. So I have my own hours and time to do as I see fit. But I don't think I know many people who don't put in a lot of work. In fact, during production, I have 24-hour a day responsibility. Everything changes while a picture is being made. Observer: To what eitent does your Job restrict your private and famUy life? BUI: The demands are self-imposed. They are no longer imposed by the need to make money or for security. I have those. So I can choose to be busy or not be busy; I don't have to work any more if I don't want to. Everything I do is motivated by an inner need rather than external demands. I take time off. Sometimes I take lunches off, afternoons off. Sometimes I decide not to see anybody for a week, or on Thursday I'm not going to see anybody, but go out sailing on my boat, or go skiing, or fly up to Utah for a couple of days. I like to take the middle of the week off since I try to avoid weekend crowds. Observer: Will you make the change soon? Bill: I don't know, I'm leaving that open for now. But I would like to enter mot:e the artistic phases of cinema, so that's why I will try directing. I want to combine that with producing, and do that as well as the effective work ofproducing. 
Observer: You often mention luck. Do you think that plays more of a role than design in producing a movie? Bill: Yes, luck is the major element. Now fortunately, everybody gets lucky, but not everybody knows what to do with luck. You can't just wait around for the lightening to strike, you can't simply hope that something is going to happen. On the other hand, there is no set way to get something done. There is no way to find a good script, no way to get the happy marriage of two or three terrific actors in a movie without getting lucky, which is what makes the business fun. You never know what is going to happen next. The lightening bolt could strike next week; as a matter of fact it did. I sent a script to Marlon Brando, and it turns out that he really likes it. I call that fairly lucky. · 
Observer: The Notre Dame education places a lot of stress on developing a complete person, and not just preparing one for a narrow career. How did your Notre Dame education affect you? Bill: I really don't know. though obviously it must have done a pretty good job. The only thing I feel was somehow infused was taste. It's something I'm known for in Los Angeles. No matter what else they say about_ me, at least they say I've got great taste. That must have come from some­where, and I know it didn't come from my life previous to Notre Dame, so I'm sure it came from here. I don't think I learned a lot about life at Notre Dame. but I think I learned a lot about everything else. Observer: Do you have any long-range plans for yourself? Bill: No, I don't have any plans at all. As a matter of fact, I didn't have any plans when I left Notre Dame; that's how I got into the 
JONY Bill 

movie business. But I've alwavs had thi~ fantasy that I could do anything: As you get older. you don't even want to do many things. _But I've never closed the door completely to many things. I've toyed with the idea of changing completely and going into anouther direction. businesswise. lifestylewise, perhaps sailing around the world. Or, if I felt that I could go to school for two years, and be technically qualified to design boats, I might do that. Observer: Do you have any immediate plans? Bill: Right now I'm putting together a children's film for $400.000 and have a couple of other possibilities after that. But the children's film is my most immediate concern. Observer: Earlier you mentioned how tight the employment situation has become in Hollywood. Has this led to cutthroat style competition? Bill: I don't think it's cutthrouat. I think there is a lot more honor there than anyone would believe. People in other businesses find it hard to believe that the producer, director and actors for a picture could be hired and paid hundreds of thousands of dollars each, that the picture can begin with people who have not yet signed contracts with the studio, just because negotiations are still going on over the fine points. No other business in the world would spend millions of dollars on a project until everything was down on paper. As a matter of course, almost everything in the movie business is done on handshake and telephone deals. I would say that it is much less cutthroat than most other businesses; it is populated with pretty decent people by and large. Observer: Then practices like "bedroom casting" are mostly mythical? Bill: It is pretty easy to get laid in Hollywood, and I don't know of anybody who gets a job that way. There are so many people standing in line for a job. and too many other ways to get it. I've never seen it happen. You basically get a job because of talent. Observer: Overall, have.you been satisfied with your career? BID: Absolutely. It provides the relatively instant gratification of seeing your work presented to a large number of people within a short time. It provides enough money to keep you going, or if you are lucky, retire you at an early age. It's a volatile profession: vou can be down for a long time, but that lightening bolt is just around the corner. 
Observer: Do you ever think about how you ln.Ouence your profession, or how you wW be remembered In fifty yean? 
BID: I consider the art of movie-making 
pretty much complete. I don't think there is 
much left to be done in the form that hasn't 
been tried. I don't think the history of 
movies will reflect much of a change in the 
art itself, but rather a change of styles and 
tastes during the times. and the credibility 
and belief that was held in the times. 
I don't think movies will ever be longer or shorter than they are; I think the audience's attention span is about two hours. I think that movies will always be with us. I'm not part of the group that thinks movies will be phased out by huge home screen cassette machine, which will probably come soon. I think people will always seek out the company of others in the mystery of the large, dark room, to watch a movie. Observer: Thank you, Mr. Blll. 
by Mike Towle Staff Reporter  president, handled this chore for Notre Dame students. This year, it  Daniel Boon, United Airlines  manager of the office in South  
''Students should start making plane reservations, because flights are starting to fill up," Mary Balla stated, a travel agent with the First Bank and Trust Travel Department on the Notre Dame campus. Her statement was made in reference to the upcoming October break during which many Notre Dame students will be traveling home. As the only travel service on campus, the First Bank and Trust Travel Department is used by many Notre Dame students, according to Balla. Reservations have been received since August resulting in few remaining seats on flights. Students have just over three weeks remaining before break which starts October 16. Because many Notre Dame stu· dents live at least 500 to 1,000 miles from South Bend, they are  is the duty of the Student Union Services Commission under the direction of Jenny Burke. "This service won't be provided for October break because Notre Dame is the only school having a break then," stated ·Burke. "As of now, no plans have been set for Christmas vacation." Charter flights cannot be arranged through the First Bank and Trust Travel Department, either. "We only make reservations and then issue the tickets to the people," added Balla. "We have a separate group department that takes care of charter flights." Last year, Notre Dame students were able to fly home at Christmas for substantially-reduced rates through the student travel associa­tion. Without this service, Notre Dame students are faced with increased plane fare.  Bend, offered an explanation for the increase in prices. "Our fuel prices have gone up steadily," he stated. "Before the oil crisis, we were paying about one-third of what we're now pay­ing. It's very possible that these prices will keep going up." According to Boon, salaries of airplane personnel and food prices continue to increase. In addition, loss of money is also realized when there are "no shows." "When a person calls to reserve a seat for a flight that is already filled, we put him on a waiting list," Boon added. "A long waiting list tells me when to start getting another plane lined up." Boon indicated that it really hurts financially when these people on the waiting list cancel out at the last minute resulting in numerous empty seats on flights. He said  
required to fly if they desire to go home for such a short break. It ismPIRG outlined this years goals at last nights meeting. [Photo by economical for these students toDebbie Krilich] find special rates or book charter flights with friends from the same area.lnPIRG outlines proposals Last year, Notre Dame, in con­ According to the United Airlines ticket office in South Bend, prices go up about two percent every four months. Among the round trip fares for major flight connections out of South Bend are: Los Angeles ($314), New York ($148), Atlanta ($146), and Boston ($168). How­ that this trend is especially true for westbound flights because these passengers, usually students. are apt to get rides with friends to Chicago to depart on flights from there. "Most people think that we are making a substantial amount of  
lnPIRG. the Indiana Public Inte­InPIRG consists of six commi­rest Research Group, held its first ttees, consumer rights and protect­ion health and safety, bureaucraticmeeting of the year last night in watchdog, consumer services, env­LaFortune Student Center. ironmental affairs, utilities and The meeting was an introducti­publicity. on to the workings of InPIRG, as each committee head proposed InPIRG deals with not' only projects. After the meeting, small­university problems but also with er groups discussed these projects. those affecting other consumers Although only thirty students and citizens. Anyone interested in attended the initial meeting, Julie working with lnPIRG can stop at Englehart, InPIRG chairman, stat­the InPIRG office on the second ed she expects as many as one floor of LaFortune, or call the office hundred acting members. at 6413. Restaurants ban smoking MOSCOW AP-Smokers won't. There has not yet been an official be able to light up while sitting at a announcement of the new rule, and table in any Moscow restaurant--at diners at the restaurants that have least not if they want something to banned smoking have simply been eat. told politely not to smoke.  junction with Purdue and IUSB, chartered flighfs to major cities for their students duftng spring break. This organization is called the Indiana Student Ravel Association and operates when these schools have simultaneous vacations. The Student Government, under Tom Fitzgerald, last. year's vice-Dogma for [Continued from page 6] If you escape the clutches of the inquisitorial raven before Christ­man, Bob Kerby, and if you promise not to bring those para­keets fro_m a Daphne DuMaurier world of "The Birds" with you, perhaps Darby and I could offer you the therapy of a drink. You see, I have learned to live in peace with  ever, special Bicentennial fares are available that offer a 20 per cent savings. Stipulations require that tickets are used within 7 to 30 days of issuance, the entire trip must be planned at least 14 days in ad­vance, and the ticket must be bought within ten days after making the reservation. the Birds my cocker spaniel, whom I love dearly; the secret is never to turn your back too long on the beast. When you make the mistake of trusting pets as mentors and philosophers confirmed in original innocence, then that, as you know by now, Bob, is when the fox gets into the chicken coop. Peach and love to the captive from Darby and  money," Boon said. "We do handle a lot of money but have only kept about two to three per cent in recent years. Besides the in~ creased expenses mentioned, we have to pay interest on our air~ planes." Boon continued, "When we.first bought our Boeing 747's, they cost about $25 million each. A Boing 727 originally cost about about $7 million. These prices are consider­ably higher now." Students may also decide to travel by train or bus. Although more time-consuming than plane flights, their rates are much cheaper. A person traveling coach on Amtrak out <1f South Bend would pay ab<;mt $230 roundtrip to Los Angeles, $112 to New York, $112 to Atlanta and $125 to Boston. Bus fares are about the same for these destinations.  


8 
the observer Thursday, September 23, 1976 
For October break 
Plane reservations are filling up 
A spokesman for the municipal Some diners have received the 

council said yesterday that the 
news badly and arguments have council had adopted a regulation to been seen in restaurants that putban smoking at all table in the the rule into effect. city's 120 restaurants and that 40 
I 
Eating places which are notrestaurants had already instituted classified as re.staurants--such asthe ban. 
cafes and luncheonettes, whereSmoking will be permitted only customers eat· hurriedly--alreadyin the rest rooms and in special prohibit smoking. 
smoking foyers that' restaurants will be required to provide. The restaurant smoking ban is
~ 
the latest move in an antismokingThe council spokesman said in. a drive across the Soviet Union. 
telephone interview the regulation had been passed at the recommen­The Black Sea resort city of Sochi dation of the Ministry of Health, this year proclaimed itself the and a ministry spokesman said 
nation's firsf' "no-smoking city" 
authorities will go easy on violators and other towns have followed with at first but have a strong weapon to strict regulations on smoking. enforce the rule. One man returning from vacation 
in Yalta said he was told a"We won't fine them, but they no-smoking rule there was design­won't get anything to eat, " he ed to keep the beaches free ofsaid. 
cigarette butts. He said pleasant"it's a question of health, not shaded areas with benches wereonly the health of the smokers but provided for smokers. 
particularly the health of the staff of the restaurants, " the ministry 
Moscow already forbids smoking spokesman sa\d. 
in theatres, public transportation, 
Restaurant workers have com­government offices and auditor­plained in letters to newspapers iums. These rules are the subject about the annoyances of having ' of some controversy and are often customers who smoke. ignored. 


lnrr>nr.•m. the most exciting chal­enge of their lives. A challenge th eads to an exciting future as a Naval 
aboard a nuclear-powered rfact ship or submarine. 
Navy on Campus Septemher 28 
Lt. Mike Fitzgerald 

Make Appointments with Placeme Office. 
If you're good enough, you can be a Navy Nuclear Officer. 

The Navy needs some very specia Dame graduates who aren' find out how good the Who will consider and demanding training 
I. 

The White House lnn Tonight Pitcher Beer Nite with Bruce Carr 
2839 No. 51th St., Nih:s Take U.S. 31 to Niles, North on 5i, 3 miles 

FRIDAY 5:15­MASSS SUPPER A very informal gathering of good people, at Bulla Shed, the Campus Ministry Activities Center, the little green house at the comer of Bulla Rd. and Juniper (in the middle of the block, across from Grace Tower and the Ubrary). 
Everyone welcome -new students especially! 

Thursday, September 23, 1976 the observer 
Brademas opposed by Thorson for District seat 

by Vincent Moschella Political Reporter 

Editor's Note: Thls Is the second In a series of articles portraying the candidates for the Th1rd Congres­sional seat In Indiana. Today's article looks at RepubUcan Dr. Thomas Thorson. 
Dr. Thomas Thorson, the Repub­lican nominee for Congress in 
Career center open 
by Mary Ann Moorman Staff Reporter 

The Notre Dame Career Placem­ent Center is having an open house today, Sept. 23,for the second and final day, from 1 to 4:30 p.m. Seniors and graduate students are welcome to browse and ask questi-­ons in the office, room 222 in the Administration Building. 
Ms. Billie Kalberer, placement bureau secretary, and other staff members are available to give tours of the office rooms, beginning in the student wai£ing room. There 
· are eleven interview rooms, a general files room with company files in permanent section, a "help 
J yourself'' section, and Chamber of Commerce files, which contain information about numerous cities. 
An office for the Peace Corps and Vista is now empty. "There is a possibility that it will remain vacant 
HOLD IT!!! 
Drop in on us before 
you drop in on 
Northwestern!!!!!! 
r ' 
* 
10 PERCENT DISCOUNT WITH ND-SMC 1.0. 
ON VODKA, BOURBON, SCOTCH, GIN, RUM, BLENDS, TEQUILA, WINE, AND LIQUEURS 
LOW,LOW PRICES ON BEER!!! 
FOUR LOCATIONS 
'12th St. Uquor Store Portage Party Shop 12th St. in Mishawaka 826 Portage Avenue Alone 259-8634 Alone 232-8858 
River Park 2411 Mishawaka Ave. 

Indiana's Third Congressional Dis­trict, is hoping to unseat longtime Democratic incumbent John Brad­emas in the 'November 2nd gener­al election. 
Thorson, 42, is professor of political science at Indiana Univer­sity at South Bend (IUSB). He was granted his Ph.D. in 1960 by Princeton and Indiana University in Bloomington. Thorson graduated fourth in his class at LaPorte High School in 1952 and received an 
A.B. with honors and departmental 
for the year because of the decrea­se in government recruiting," Kal­berer remarked. 
Seniors have received placem­ent manuals. Profile forms can be brought in anytime, Kalberer note­d, but must be in before an interview is scheduled. A duplicate form is given to each recruiter. 
Registration begins Monday, S­ept. 27, with interviews starting October 4. 
According to Kalberer, the cent­er does not have the percentage of students who have gotten jobs through school placement intervi­ews. But she hopes that in the future, the companies and the students will refer back to the center all{~ report the jobs that were connected. 
"Over 300 companies send recr­uiters," she said, "it is important to acquaint yourself now to our office." 
ALL STORES OPEN NIGHTS 'TILL 11 PM 
honors from Indiana University in 
1956. 
During the past 16 years, Dr. Thorson has served on the faculties of the University of Wisconsin in Madison, the University of Califor­nia at Berkley, the University of the Philippines; Northwestern Univer­sity and the University of Toronto. In the spring of 1975, he was Fulbright professor of American Civilization at the University of Trondheim in Norway. In 1970, he returned permanently to his home­town of LaPorte and, as chairman, undertook the development and organization of the Department of Political Science at IUSB. 
Professor Thorson has produced, along with many articles and book reviews, four books. The Logic of Democracy published in 1962 was called by Notre Dame's distin­guished Review of PoUtlcs "a very good book." In fact, "it may be the book Walter Lippmann has been looking for to rt!establish a reason­ed philosophy of democracy." Blopolitlcs (1970) was described in The Nation magazine as "one of the most important works in politi­cal theory in this century." 
In 1963 Thorson received the Kiekhofer A ward for distinguished teaching at Wisconsin and a Gug­genheim Fellowship to Oxford Uni­versity in England. He has lectured at universities around the United States and around the world including Johns Hopkins, Cam­bridge, Yale, the London School of Economics, the School of Oriental 
and African Studies of the Univer­1 sity of London and the Philippines Defense College. He has also 
1 served as consultant to Rotary International, the United States Armed Forces Institute, and the Division of International Trade of the Indiana Department of Com­merce. 
While Thorson worked his way through Indiana University as a janitor and busboy , he worked summers as a laborer at the Kingsbury Ordinance Plant, Allis­Chalmers, and the Sinclair Oil Refinery. He was voted one of the ten outstanding seniors, served as Chief Justice of the Student Sup­
<tQ 

Join us and See: @i)O<S!fuO@(R}@ 
FE:STIVAL 

13 different events in all!!! n 
FREE Entrance for student ushers Discounts, parties, fun.... Sign up now!! Write Century Center, 306 S. Notre Dame Ave. South Bend, 46617 Phone: 284-9711 
reme Court and was a member of the debate team in his IU days. In 1955, he represented the State of Indiana in the Rhodes Scholarship competition. 
Thorson has two daughters: Ingrid, 14 and Carla, 12. His wife, Sondra, was formerly editorial page editor and political reporter for the LaPorte Herald-Argus and now serves as Director of Consu­mer and Retail Relations with the Greater LaPorte Chamber of Com­merce. 
NEXT WEEK: The Issues at stake In the 3rd District Congressional 
race. 


Awaiting engineering study 
Campus drainage problem causes concern 
by Drew J. Bauer 
_ Staff Reporter 

Additional storm drains may be added to help ease the problem of "soggy soil" on campus if an ,engineering study finds them help­ful, according to Fr. Jerome Wil­son, executive administrator of physical plants. 
The study is being conducted by a graduate student in the College of Engineering and should have been done by September 16. However, the student is now working for a firm in Chicago. "I'm getting worried about it," said Wilson. 
• ·'The report may influence us to do something about the situation when we receive it," said Wilson. "But the only problem that we know of is by the Morris Inn and the Center for Continuing Educa­tion." 
A series of storm drains were installed there a couple of years ago,' but there .are still problems there especially during heavy rains. "We warned the architects about it and they said that it would work but it doesn't as well as it should," said Wilson. 

"Besides that area, we don't know of any problems," said Wilson. "The campus is mostly built on sand, and water usually disappears quickly." 
•'The glaciers came here four times dumping a load of materials here," said Dr. E. M. Winkler, profesor of earth science·. "They 
ground up all the rocks here into aflour-like-mix. There's a 40 foot layer of sand and gravel on top, then there is a I 0 foot band of clay.'· Winkler said. 
Some of the problems of soggy soil is due to the dav. "In some area, the clay is m(xed with the ment. "There should be a pretty 
good run-off into them. I really
don't know where anymore would be needed." There are two recent additional were added to the water drainage 
program according to Knonewitter. A new sewer line was insotalled near St. Mary's lake replacing an older defective one, and a new 42-inch wide culvert line is being installed between St. Mary's lake and St. Joseph River to receive any OV5!r­flow. The drainage is also a 
problem in two other areas. The fields behind Stepan Center are usually soggy after rains, but 
Harriers travel to Michigan State 
The Notre Dame Cross Country team will be trying to notch its first victory of the season as it journeys to East Lansing Friday afternoon to Michigan State in a dual meet. 
The Irish were narrowly defeated two weeks ago by Purdue and go into the race featuring four fresh­men who appear to be the furure hope of the team. 
"If we're to have any success 
Subpoena lifted against reporter 
WASHINGTON AP--The House 

c thics committee yesterday ended 
its attempt to punish television 
reporter Daniel Schorr for refusing 
to give the panel his copy of a 
secret House intelligence report or 
identifying the person who gave it 
to him. 
The panel voted 9-1 to lift the 

subpoenas against Schorr and 
three other persons involved in the 
publication of a classified report on 
activities of U.S. intelligence agen­
cies. 
Rep. Thomas F. Foley, D-Wash., 

said the vote effectively ends the 
committee's attempt to discover 
who gave the report to Schorr or to 
take legal action against the CBS 
reporter for refusing to cooperate 
in the panel's investigation. 
The other three subpoenaed were Clay Felker, publisher of the Village Voice; Aaron Latham, a senior editor of New York maga­zine, and Sheldon Zalaznick, form­er senior editorial director of New York. 
The decision to drop the subpoe­nas came after a series of votes on related motions failed to unite the committee behind a specific course of action. One would have declared "the committee does not recom­mend citing Daniel Schorr for contempt." It failed on a 5-S tie vote. 
The Proumm of 
thelear isn•t on 
T'~ 
10• in thl' .\ir rorce ROT(:. 
Look into the Air Force ROTC. And there are 4-year, 3­year, or 2-year programs to choose from. Whichever you se­lect, you'll leave college with a commission as an Air Force officer. With opportunities for a position with responsibility ..• challenge •.. and, of course, fi­nancial rewards and security. 
The courses themselves pre­pare you for leadership posi· tions ahead. Positions as a member of an air crew ... or as a missile launch officer •.• posi­tions using mathematics •.• sci­ences ... engineering. 
Look out for yourself, Look into the Air Force. ROTC pro­grams on campus. 
see Capt. Davis ­
283-6635 Put It d topther • Air Force ROTC. 

this year, a lot of it will have to come from Mark Novak, Kevin Kenny, Pete Burger and Fred Stepan," relates coach Joe Piane. "With graduation losses and the injuries to some of our veterans, the freshmen will have to carry 
us.'' The five-mile race versus the Srartans will feature All-American Herb Lindsay for the Spartans, who along with Jeff Pullen and Stan Marvis, form a fine team. 
"We've got our work cut out for us," admits Paine. "Last year we soundly defeated them, but this 
year's race is going to be a completely different story." Piane has his experienced run­ners this season in captain Jim 
Uhe TVinO_iam mer 
CREATIVE HAIR DESIGN FOR THE SEXES 
RElAXING ATMOSPHERE 

FREE HAffi ANALYSIS RK RETAU..CENTER · 

1637 LWW 
So. Bend 
232-6622 
Appt. only. 

sand near the top. This slows the "there is nothing we can do about sunken and water has Jayea there rate of drainage and can result in that," Wilson said. "The fields are forming an obstacle, especiallyoverflowing." Winkler added. not sloped outward, and we can't when iced in the winter. "We fix a 
"The University spent a lot of .put drainage apparatus in the few here and a few there, but there money on this system," said R. A. fields." just are too many of them to do Knonewitter, on special assign-Also several sidewalks have them all," Wilson said. ment at the maintenance depart-............................... 
Reinhart (who won the race with Purdue), junior Dan Horgan and sophomores Joe Strohman, Dennis Vanderkraats, and Dave Gutschen­ritter. 
"The maturity on the part of these upperclassmen will be critical in the meet," observed Piane. "The leadership of Reinhart and Horgan will mean the difference in winning or losing." 
The race is scheduled for 4p.m. .EDT at East Lansing. The next home meet is the Notre Dame Invitational October 8. 
~
Pt.z z a

e e 
•\. .. _.... _J 
\-J .,~A • r 
• Kt.ng
1 .~ 1 ...,-r~ 
d I• .l"...i 
We invite you to try our delicious pizza, hot sandwiches and tasty 
salads.. BEER Special Monday nights. Pitchers of Budweiser $1.50 
Michelob $1.75 Tues. nite after 4pm--$1.00 off on all large pizzas. 
130 Dixyway North 272-6017 
::································' 
I THE :e
: nazz : 
1: Anyone interested in performing !: • or working at the nazz..... .i1 call pat fanning 288-0536 
. : 
: we need you....... • 
.•.................................• 

LEADERS FOR A CHANGE'' 
All St. Mary's students interested in working in Gov. Jimmy Carter's Campaign Please contac:t Kathy Byrne 5230 
\ ~ 'I t
''\ 't' 


Thursday, September 23, 1976 the observer 
Stanford and Keenan win IH o 
by Jack McCarthy Sports Writer 

Six north quad teams kicked off the 1976 interhall football season last night at Cartier Field. The tackle football program, which was founded by Knute Rockne, is beginning its forty-ninth year under the direction of Dominic (Nappy) Napolitano. 
Approximately 650 men are play­ing for the fifteen hall teams this year. Each team will play all the hall teams in their quad with the winners of each quad meeting in the championship game in Novem­ber. 
CAVANAUGH -0 HOLY CROSS -0 
Numerous turnovers and penal­ties thwarted scoring threats mounted by both teams as Holy Cross and Cavanaugh fought to a scoreless tie in the opening game of the interhall season. Holy Cross player-coach Chris1 Przywara sing­led out teammate Larry McCrief for his excellent defensive play. 
Cavanaugh's Joe Scally, also a player-coach, recognized Ralph Mirand as his squad's top perfor­mer. Miranda intercepted two pas­ses and ran for five first downs to lead his team on both offense and defense. 
STANFORD -16 GRACE -0 

After a scoreless first half, Stanrord's Keith Ugone scored 
Classified Ads 
Notices 
Greyhound Bus to Chica0o. Leaves Main Circle every Friday at 4:45. Call Tom at 8338 for reservations and further info. 
Will teach flute in your spare time. Call Beth -8112 for more info. 
The senior class announces that auditibns are now being held for the (bikini-clad) naked klunkeress for the final home games. Apply 1650. 
Accurate, fast typin0. Mrs. Donoho 232-07 46. 
Free kittens 3 mos. old. Ph. 272-2520 after 3 p.m. 
Morrissey Loan Fund $20-150 1 day wait. 1 percent interest due in 30 days. La Fortune Basement, M-F 11:15-12:15. 
Friends, Domers, and Countrymen: anybody interested in helping MIKE HOWLETT for a little while before 
the  Northwestern  Game  call  Pat  
8403.  
For Rent  
Gara<1e  for  rent.  Call  after  9.  
287-5.718.  
Lost & Found  

LOST: 1 h i0h school ring--says Benet Academy. Red stone, yellow gold setting, 197 4 ring, initials 
P.A. R.; 1 St. Mary's class ring; traditional diamond chip, 1978 ring, initials P.A.R. B.A. GOLD AN+ tiqued setting. They were lost somewhere between Notre Dame & St. Mary's-. 
Lost: clear and black lighter with fish hook at Jungle Jim's birthday party. li found call Harsh at 8212. Great sentimental value. 
Lost: Gold hoop earring; Sat. night at parties or bars. Great sentimental value. Please call 4255. 
Found: 1 girls pearl ring. Washing­ton Hall stage. Identify & it's yours. Call Ed 234-7967. 
Found: a woman's watch in the ACC parking lot. Call Mary at 6179 to identify. 
No-1 haven't found my glasses! I just couldn't find The Observer office to put in another classified! 
Please find clear framed glasses lost. In vicinity of bars. $25 reward. Call Tom at 289-0114. 
Lost 1 pair gold-rim glasses at Armory Fri. (9-17-76). If found please contact John 283-3828. 
Wanted 
Need ride to Columbus, Ohio this Friday. Call Peggy at 284-4260. 
Need ride to Dayton or Columbus any weekend. Call Jan 4037. 
Need 4 Oregon tickets. Must be together. Call Dave 8528. 
Ride needed to and from Cincinnati, weekend of 24th. 1334. 

from seven yeards out on a fourth down play early in the third quarter. From there, Stanford went on to shutout Grace 16-0. 
Grace was able to make two scoring threats via the passing game but they both ended with turnovers deep in Stanford terri­tory. Stanford's second touchdown came in the fourth quarter on a twelve yard pass from quarterback Don Garda to Ray Oliu. Oliu also added the two point conversion on a sweep around the left end. 
KEENAN -15 FLANNER -6 
Flanner shocked Keenan with a 51 yard touchdown pass on their first play from scrimmage but the defending interhall champions re­bounded to defeat Flanner in the best played game of the evening. Flanner quarterback Mark Coons hit Mike Schuff with a perfect pass midway through the first quarter to give his team their only score. 
I\,eenan came back to tie up the game just before halftime on a 37 yard pass from Bob Bracale to Frank Hopke. They went ahead when Bracale kept the ball himself on an option play to score the two point conversion. 
After repeatedly threatening to increase their lead in the second half. only to be stopped by a tough Flanner defense, Keenan finally scored their second touchdown on fullback Mark Mulligan's 5 yard run. Ed Dainko booted the extra point to complete the scoring. 
Aggressive gentleman to help Gen­eral Mana0er part-time. Will trade salary for room and board. Call 272-7522 for interview. 
Need 2-4 Alabama tickets. Reason­able, please. Call 8042. 
Need 2 or 4 Ore<1on tickets. Call Mark 1473. · 
3 'BAMA' tickets needed-anything reasonable-8775. ­
Part-time work; telephone ticket sales. Evenings & Saturdays. Pleas­ant working conditions. Salary & bonuses. Call 237-1976 Mr. Richard­son. 
Need 2 Oregon tix. Will pay $$$. Call Steve at 287-6823. 
Needed: 2 or 4 GA Oregon tix. Call Steve 287-6058. 
Riders wanted to Ann Arbor Friday. Leave: 1 :00. Return Sunday after­noon. 233-3903, Mike. 
Need ride alona Interstate 80 West to Moline September 24. Call 5194. 
Ride to Michigan St. Oct. 1 or 2 will share expenses. Carol 7834. 
Wanted: used typewriter manual or dexterious. Leo 1650. 
Ideal part-time employment. School year 10:30-3 p.m. Mon. thru Fri. ­St. Mary's College Food Service. Call 284-4011 for appointment. E­qual Opportunity Employer. M-F. 
Typing wanted: pic!< " up and delivered, Reasonar Diane ­683-7759. 
Need two GA 'BAf • tickets some­thin' fierce. Call1;tS!! 
Desperately need ride to Columbus, Ohio weekend of Oct. 9, Call Gary at 1785. 
Go west1! In search of 4 Oregon tickets. Call Gregg at 1650. 
Need ride to Madison W i. Thursday on Friday, 23 & 24. Share driving & expenses. Call Kevin 289-6929. 
Aged but alive bicycle. Jean 1292. 
Needed: 3 GA Oregon tickets. Call Pat at 3683. 
Pizza Delivery Help wanted with car. Fat Wally's 2046 South Bend Ave. 
Waitresses wanted. Must be 21. Apply 4-7 p.m. Fat Wally's 2046 South Bend Ave. 
For Sale 

Must sell Northwestern ticket and bus ticket to game. Call 1263. 
1972 Honda 450. Excellent condition cash or trade for car. Call Charlie 277-0692 after 6 p.m. 
For Sale: two transaudio speakers. Brand nes. 27 inches high. Walnut cabinets. $17 5 for both. Call Pat 3059. 
Factory-sealed Maxwell VD-XL 90­min. cassette tapes. $4.75. Call 1182. 
Cavanaugh and Holy Cross kicked off the 1976 interhall football season last night at Cartier Field. 

I I 
For Sale: 3 pc. bedroom· set. Includes 4 drawer chest, 6 drawer dresser with mirror. Foot board and 
Head  board.  Call  272-2520 after 3  
p.m.  
NEW  LONDON  LAKE  CONDO­ 

M IN IUM 2 bedrooms, den 2 car garage. $33,900. Sandy Stroes 272­7750-272-2696. 
12-string Giannini Guitar-asking $90-will talk-swap for 6 string (steel) of comparable value. Call Bill 8795. 
RUGBY JERSEY RUGBY JERSEY RUGBY JERSEY exaCIIy like Book­store. Our price $11.00. Great Midwest "'r" Co. 289-5941. 
Directors chairs personalized. All color & finishes. $22.50 Great Midwest "T" Co. 289-5941. 
4-sale 2 Northwestern tix at cost 1387. 
2 tix for Northwestern game. 40 yard line seats. Call Terry 1521. 
'62 Mercedes 220, 4-dr. stereo, radials, fine condition. $1100. 287-7693. 
'67 Mustang conv., classic, very good condition, new top, new tires, 289 eng. $1100. 287-7693. 
1 Northwestern ticket. At cost ($9). Call Betsey at either 8053 or 8055. 
For Sale: 1 Northwestern ticket. Call Rose 1266. 
Personals 

K.D. and Dick . Happy Birthday! Queer Quint and Banana 
Buddman--we're gonna kill you Sept. 27!! We would get ready if we were you. 
Maliciously, 

The Wild Bunch IV & friends 
Hey John, Cogito Ergo Sum! The Cray-1. 
SEM PRE Tl AMO Rainbows close. No longer carrying puddles around! 
RNG, I can't believe you, .either -you're crazy! Je t'aime. 
c 

Happy Birthday Hemorrhoids! 
Tara, Happy 21 from "Suffragette City." Sweet dreams and forever White Russians at Bridgets. Girls in LeMans wish you the best of shoes and licorice and Fonda out West. Hope your day is "nice time" till we see you in slumber we all do it all "My Way." Love. 
What kind of dessert does Crackers like best?! 
Why JBM, of course! 

JoAnn, Happy 21st. Love, Roomie, Fran. & Lori. 
~--:-...--..-r~,___,....,....,,--,-r-7-r--­
Good Voice, Meet me in the ferns. GC 
K .•Kucera, where ever you are, call Mike and wish him a happy 18th' 1103. 
Pete, Mike, Jim & Dick. Thanks so much for aettina the tickets_ How can we eve·r repay you?? And, don't say with needlework! Love. Auntie Barb and friends 
GOING OUT OF BUSINESS! Ray's Massage Parlor will be closeo temporarily while the management obtains larger quarters to handle the volume of business. Ray re0rets the inconvenience to his regular custom ers. 
John, If you liked the Roman orgy last week, we will have a repeat performance. Same time, same place. (One day removed?). BN, GC 
James Patrick Dor<1an (a-k-a Jivin' 
J.P. D.), Now you· have your own personal. Neato, huh?! Very, very, very sincerely, 218. 
JD, I take no credit for the composition of the preceeding per­sonals. Attribute them to BN. G 
Girls! For very personal answers to your very personal questions, call Rollo at 2153. 
Breen Phillips presents: Madame Fifi's sing-along Friday, Sept. 24th 9 
p.m. in Breen Phillips 24 hour lounge (Basement). 
Sorry kids, this was not a good day for cute and clever personals. Love, 
,. 



by Paul Stevenson ested in what I had to say, so the received some from Notre Dame Sports Writer following year I decided to try 
and St. Mary's students. In addi­
something different," McCarthy 
tion, people have called and written 
Attending a Notre Dame football remarked. me, always giving their sugges­game means witnessing the Irish In 1961, McCarthy gave his usual tions." gridders in action, enjoying the' traffic warning, but before signing 
Everyone in the stadium antici­
music of the nation's oldest univer­off, he told his audience a brilliant 
pates Detective Sargeant Tim Me 
sity band and experiencing the roar traffic control pun. The reaction Carthy and his traffic words of wlt. of ND fans in person. However, if was overwhelming; the fans loved 
No matter if Notre Dame is on the one has seen a Saturday contest McCarthy's addition. verge of victory or is about to taste 
within the last 16 years, they have "The fans seemed to enjoy my defeat, Tim McCarthy must per-heard the words of the legendary little sayings so much, l continued form. ­Tim McCarthy. to use them and have been ever 
"I don't like to make my
"This is Indiana State Police since," he noted. "To my know­announcement when Notre Dame is Officer Tim McCarthy" are words ledge, I've never repeated any of losing," he commented. "I'm aND that can be heard in Notre Dame them." fan myself and when they're los­Stadium on a home game after­McCarthy, now in his seven­ing, I feel kind of down, too. 
noon. The crowd cheers when these teenth year as public relations man However, when the team is win­words ring through the stadium. in charge of coordination of traffic ning, I can't wait to address the 
McCarthy was born in Fort at Notre Dame football games, has fans." Wayne, Indiana on January 1, said over 90 phrases during his Winning or losing, fans enjoy1931. For the past 23 years he has c,areer. hearing McCarthy. They all want to been working for the Indiana State What is the source of these know what phrase he came up with Police. Dunes Park District. humorous phrases that enables 
this week. 
Every year the fans are glad to McCarthy to receive such an ova­"I don't really have a particularknow that their guardian, Tim tion from the Notre Dame fans? favorite," McCarthy mentioned. McCarthy is back again. The "The late Len Baldey, who "My favorites are the ones that go 
I spectators await his safe driving worked for WGN (Chicago) in the over the best. A couple I really like
I 
pun which will follow his serious traffic copter, used these phrases are 'You'll never get to heaven if
• words of caution. on his traffic report," McCarthy you dril·e like the devil.', and the called React, help clear the ·traffic official Notre Dame pep rally last McCarthy spoke his first words acknowledged. "I asked him for a one I used a couple of weeks ago, after the games with only a limited year. to Irish followers during the foot­copy of his sayings (which amoun­'If you drive to the beat of the amount of accidents." Detective Sargeant Tim McCar­ball season of 1960. "I , only ted to about ten phrases) but never band, you may end up playing a Notre Dame football games are thy has become a part of Notre participated in the last two home really thought about using them. harp'." not the only events that McCarthy Dame football, a part that Irish games in 1960," McCarthy stated. When my safety pitch did not McCarthy admits he enjoys his has the pleasure of attending. He fans have enjoyed and will continue "l tried the serious approach, attract any attention. I thought I'd part of Notre Dame football. "I has been a speaker at numerous to enjoy as he adds his brilliant new trying to warn the people to be give them a try. have all the fun, but the guys that hall rallies and made his debut at a phrases in the future.l .
careful driving, telling them that Yet, the list was only a start, deserve all the credit are those that the traffic would be very bad," he McCarthy had to come up with are out directing traffic," he stres­
l sed. Badin and Lyons chalk up
added. more ideas on his own. The straight forward style w~s "Sometimes I'll be reading and "I would say that Notre Dame's not very appealing to Notre Dame see a couple of words that go well traffic control is better than any 
opening lnterhall victori~s 
backers as was witnessed by Mc­together, so I jot them down and try other stadium in the country. The Carthy. to work them into a phrase, combination of state police, civil by Win Palmer were the best team last year. Early 
"People didn't seem very inter-McCarthy remarked. "I've also defense and a volunteer group Sports Writer in the first half Sharon Lopez picked off a Kate Sarb pass and gave Lyons possesion of the ball on Badin Hall, with the aid of a the Breen-Phillips 18-yard line. On 10-yard scamper by Lisa Harten­the first play form Scrimmage Jill
WSND to cover away games 
berger, edged Walsh Hall 14-8 in Delucia fired an 18-yard pass tc an exciting overtime game Wed­Kathy McCann. The extra pointnesday. In the second game, was no good.played also at the football field 
Inspired by the gifted running of 

by Bob Keen behind Stepan Center, Lyons Hall 
Jo Ann Mooney, Breen-Phillipsgrabbed a quick lead against

Sports Writer fought back in the second half. 
Breen-Phillips Hall and hung on to to move ball
They managed the win by the score of 12-0. 

down to the Lyons 11-yard line due WSND has been broadcasting Badin 14 Walsh 8 mainly to the throwing arm of Kate home Notre Dame football games It was a triumphant return to Sarb adn the hands of Kathy \ for a number of years and, in case women's football for Badin. Al­Schneider.l you are unaware, have done an though they quickly fell behind in 
However, the Lyons defense put ~ excellent job. However, Ted the game they overcame one up a strong ffont and pushed
adversity after another to win in
Robinson, Monte Towle and WSND Breen-Phillips back to the 25-yard 
I 
t sports are going to make history overtime. line where they caused a fumble. this Saturday when they engineer a Walsh, which lost to Lyons last The teams traded interceptionslive broadcast of the Notre Dame at year in a playoff game, received the 
until quarterback Jull Delucia of opening kickoff and scored on the

Northwestern football game. Lyons, showing that she could runa 
WSND first with
Ted Robinson, sports play from scrimmage as well as she can pass, exploded
I director, is a junior American Becky Thornton scoring on a 54­past the defense and romped to a 
Studies major form Rock Ville yard run. Badin protested the play, 55-yard touchdown run. The extra
t Centre, N.Y. and Assistant Sports claiming that Walsh had 9 players point was again no good. The 
I Director Monte Towle, also a junior on the field instead of the prescrib­contest ended this way. LyonsAmerican Studies student from ed 8 on a team. winning 12-0. Richford, Vermont are the broa"\­Anne Eisele tossed a 3-yard pass casters of this historical event. to Lisa Cotton until late in the first 
ND field hockey

Robinson was contacted by a half when Marianne Morgan inter­New York advertiser who was cepted a Walsh pass. Six plays interested in selling a Notre Dame later Chris Burns caught a 7-yard· loses in opener football package. "We signed a toss from Judy Tempel. Mary Jo 
by Tony Pace 

contract to broadcast the North­Bosara powered her way into the Sportswriter
western and Michigan State foot­fulfilling my committment I plan to best sports journalist and broadcas­end zone to tie the score at 8. The Notre Dame women's field
ball games, even though a sponsor I That was the score at halftime.
become a.sports writer or possibly ter in the business today,'' stated hockey team opened its 1976
has yet to be found,'' stated a radio sports broadcaster." Towle. ' The second half proved to be a season by dropping a 1-0 decision
Robinson. If a sponsor is found, defensive struggle. The top offen­
Both Robinson and ToV~-le agree, Within the structure of the at Northern Illinois on Tuesday.WSND plans to carry all the other "there is no good substitution for broadcast, each announcer will sive play of the half was a Anne The first half of this match was
away games this year. Eisele completion to Jay Decio that
practical experience, especially in equally portray both the color and scoreless, though Northern Illinois
!'he costs of broadcasting a game the communications field.'' Furth­play by play aspects of the game. the Walsh girl turned irrto a 55-yard had a territorial advantage
of this nature are minimul. touchdown by oursprinting the
ermore, this will be the first Incidentally, Observer Sports Edit­throughout. Sophomore goalieMoreover, if the broadcast receives opportunity that either of them has or Fred Herbst is s~heduled to be Badin players. However, this TD Mary Hums the of the
was core

was called back because of a
a sponsor, the profits will allow the had to cover a football game. the half time guest of this broad­Irish defense as she turned away 24
all expenses and holding penalty. The game ended a
station to meet Because of the large and efficient cast. shots during this stanza.still make a profit. At the present sports staff there will be different "I expect to receive some com­as Badin was trying to score from The second half saw the onlytime the money needed to operate announcers for each game, with the plaints from Mutual Radio Network the Walsh 10-yard line. scoring of the game. Goalie Hums
The rules for overtime are that
the station and pay for the broad­exception of Robinson. "I will which has the exclusive rights for blocked a shot, but a Huskie 
cast is received from Student each team is to obtain the ball on
travel to all the away games simply all Notre Dame football games," forward collected the rebound and
Government. "We hope to use the the opposing team's 10-yard line
because no one else has as yet states Robinson. However, since slipped it into the net. While the extra money to improve the signal learned how to set up the equip­no one can receive the signal off the and then each receive four downs Irish offense did put more pressure
of the station as well as to purchase for which they attempt to score. If
ment." campus the station is not breaking on the Huskie defense, they still 
new equipment," stated Towle. both teams score of it neither team
Being from the New York City any laws. Towle explains, "WSND failed to score.
Robinson has been working for scores, then each team will run
area Robinson has come in contact is very similar to a broadcasting The team's next game is this
the WSND sports staff for three another series of downs. 
with a number of renowned sports system." evening at 6:30 on the Astroturf at 
years. "As long as I can remeber, On the third series of downs
broadcasters. He explains, "hav­Cartier Field. Their opponent is
For the first time the entire
sports broadcasting has been my Badin's defense swarmed the
ing met such personalities during student body of Notre Dame has Goshen College and spectators will
ambition," states Robinson." Up­the past few years has done a great Walsh offense and stopped them be appreciated.
the opportunity to listen to football 
on graduation I plan to go into dead in their tracks. On the first
deal to enhance my desire to The Irish will also host a Hockey
coverage given from the point of
:.ports broadcasting," he further play of their possesion Badin ran a
become a broadcaster." Day this Staurday. Teams from
view of the students. Robinson
explained. This past summer Towle worked misdirection play and the freshman DePauw College and Kalamazoo
states, "I have been greatly dissap-
Like Robinson, Towle has been Hartenberger scored the winning
as a sports writer for a newspaper College will join Notre Dame to
working on the sports staff since in Vermont. During the Olympic pointed by the lack of student points. ­stage three games. There will be
he was a freshman. Towle as a boxing trials, which were held in sports broadcasting at an athletic Lyons 12 Breen-Pblllips 0 games at 11 a.m., and 2 &member of Army ROTC is c()Jllmit­Burlington, he had the opportunity university of this magnitude, how· The defending champs in wo­p.m.; if you have never seen a
4ted to four years of service upon his to interview Howard Cossell. "In ever, this broadcast is a giant step men's interhall football, Lyons Hall 

field hockey game before, this isgraduation. Towle states, "after my opinion Howard Cossell is the in the right direction." was anxious to prove why they certainly the day for it. 









