Rates vary throughout city 
0-C information is available at Administration Building 

by Jane Neff Staff Reporter 
Just where to begin looking, may be the biggest problem in shopping for off-campus housing. 
The Notre Dame Off-Campus Administration in 311 of the Ad­ministration Huilding offers a de­tailed housing guide and list of University-inspected and -ap­proved housing. This student service rates property as superior good or fair and gives the inspec­tor's comments on his evaluations. 
The University also provides a standard lease that students may use. narlf'nf' Palma. student director of off-campus housing urges. "Don't lease without the approval of off-campus housing." Thus even if your landlord furnishes a lease, inspection by the Off-CampusAdministration could eliminate later problems. 
A check into rates, availability, lease terms and security measures of off-campus facilities reveals 
important  comparisons  for  
students.  
Susan Horning,  manager of  

Campus View Apartments gave monthly rates as $300 for furn­ished, two bedroom-two bath, four student units and $230 for one bedroom-one bath. two student dwelling excluding utilities. 

The complex has vacances for the '76-'77 school year, said Horn­ing, said she did not know when the influx of renters would begin as this is her first full year at Campus View. Leases may be signed for a nine month period, and security deadbolt door locks and a roving guard on duty unit! 3 a.m. 
Notre Dame Apartments, an­other solely-student complex. is offering a rate reduction because of competition, according to Bill Far­mer, manager. Four students may rent a two bedroom-one bath apartment for $260 per month, and 
(Continued on page 11) 





server 
-st. mary's college 
Friday, February 6, 1976 

For Bicentennial Festival 
Proxmire is keynote speaker 
by Tim Boyle committee. Staff Reporter 
While many bicentennial cel­ebrations will examine the "outer
Democratic Senator William Pr­
history" of America, the Notre 
oxmire of Wisconsin will give the 
Dame-St. Mary's conference will
keynote address at next month's 
be directed toward this inner
bicentennial festival sponsored by 
history.

Notre Dame, St. Mary's and the 
Address to correlate theme South Bend Community. 
The senior Wisconsin senator, Though the exact nature of known for his close scrutiny of Proxmire's address is unknown, government spending, will speak at Prof. Walter Nicgorski of the the opening of the tive-day festivaL General Program said the senator on Sunday, Mar.7. The inaugural has been fully informed about the session begins at 3 p.m. in the conference theme and his talk is Athletic and Convocation Center expected to relate to it. Nicgorski Arena. is assisting the steering committee 
and has spoken with the scheduled 
Cultural events scheduled 
speakers. 

The festival will include an Wisconsin Senator William Prox­
Dr. Marshall Smelser, professor
academic conference and several mire will be the keynote speaker
of history at Notre Dame, will open 
cultural events. The theme of the at next month's ND-SMC bicen­
the conference on Mar. 8 and Notre 
academic conference is "An Al­tennial festival. His speech is
Dame's President Fr. Theodore M. 
most Choosen People:t The Moral expected to touch on the festi­
Hesburgh, will close it Mar. 11
Aspirations of Americans." The vals' theme if: "inner history of
with a lecture on America's re­
conference is designed to explore spiritual guest and utopian
lationship with the world com­
America's "inner history of spirit­drean."
munity.

ual quest and utopian dream,"
The Mock Political Convention sets up campaign central in the according to Dr. Ronald Weber, Six addJtlonal speakers of the Senate Banking, HousingM~morial Library Concourse nighty. Students, while coming and director of the Program of Amer­In addition, there will be six and Urban Affairs Committee andgomg, can stop and pick up campaign materials of their favorite 
ican Studies at Notre Dame and visiting scholars speaking at the vice-chairman of the Joint Com­
prospects. (Photo by Chris Smith) 
member of the festival steering conference: Dr. Martin Diamond, mittee on Defense Production. He professor of political science at is a member of the Senate App-­Northern Illinois University; Dr. ropriations Committee and chair­
Sirica 's condition critical 
Sidney Ahlstrom, professor of Am­man of its Subcommittee on Hous­erican history at Yale University, ing and Urban Development & Dr. Peter Berger, professor of Independent Agencies. sociology at Rutgers University; Members of the steering comm­
Watergate Judge is stricken Dr. Vincent Harding, visiting pro­ittee for the bicentennial festival 
WASHINGTON-(AP)--U .S. District said: "He was transferred to the since April 1957 when he was fessor in the University of Penn­are Prof. Ronald Weber, director of 
Court Judge John J. Sirica, who hospital's coronary unit and is in appointed by President Eisenhow­sylvania's Afro-American studies the American Studies program; Dr. program; Dr. Alfred Kazin, prof­Thomas Bergin, Dean of the Center
gained national recognition for his critical condition.'' er. He became chief judge in April 
dogged pursuit of the truth in Later in the evening, the hospital 1971 and when the Watergate essor of English in the City for Continuing Education; Richard 
Watergate, suffered a heart attack spokeman said Sirica's basic cond­break-in case came into the courts, University of New York's Hunter Conklin, Director of Information 
College; and Dr. I. Bernard Cohen, Services at Notre Dame and Prof.
Thursday. His condition is critical. ition was unchanged, but "his vital he assigned it to himself. 
professor of the history of science .Jack Detzler, St. Mary's DirectorSirica, a month away from his signs are stable and his life-support Thus began his long association at Harvard University. of Community Affairs.
72nd birthday, collapsed while systems continue without artificial 
with Watergate. His tactics often
delivering a luncheon speech about support. He is resting comfortably Proxmlre's activities The festival and ~onference have
were criticized but he stuck to his
a lawyer's obligation to profession­at this time." 
oft-stated assertion that all he These talks, all oiwhich will take received grants from the Indiana al ethics. His audience was 270 The spokesman said the next 
wanted was the truth. place in the CCE auditorium, will American Revolution Bicentennial alumni of George Washington U­medical bulletin was planned for be open to the public, as will Commission, the Indiana Arts Co­niversity Law School, including Friday morning. 
Since his semi-retirement in virtually all festival events. mmision and the Indiana Com­


many fellow judges. For two years, beginning with 1974, the Judge has concerned"His face was flushed and he the trial of the Watergate break-in himself solely with Watergate­
just keeled over strait into the defendants in January 1973 related matters. He passed downrostrum." said Judge Bruce men­through the Watergate cover-up rulings on such Watergate-relatedcher of the District of Columbia trial, Sirica was almost totally cases as the milk price support caseSuperior Court. occupied with Watergate. 
in 1975, and was the judge respon­
A military doctor was summoned It was he who ordered former sible for the sentencing of formerfrom another part of the building, President Richard M. Nixon to turn White House aides H.R. (Bob)the Army-Navy Club, and he over the covertly recorded White Haldeman and John Erlichman.
administered mouth-to-mouth re­House tapes, a ruling that even­Both are currently free on bailsuscitation. At one point, the judge tually was upheld in the Supreme awaiting appeal. 
said, the doctor could find no pulse. Court and was instrumental in Sirica had been speaking for 10 Nixon's resignation. Sirica's attack came during what minutes. It was Sirica who put pressure on has become a commonplace activity 
"There was no warning at all," the Watergate burglars to testify for the U.S. District Court judgbe. said retired Air Force Col. Clifford before a grand jury; it was to Sirica Since the Watergate trials, he has Dougherty, alumni director of the that James W. McCord Jr. ad­become a popular speaker at law school. dressed the letter that resulted in academic convocations, dinners, 
Sirica was taken to the George the Watergate cover-up falling receptions, and conventions, and Washington University Hospital, apart. has received numerous honors for whose spokesman, Phil Debrasbant Sirica had been a federal judge his judicial and ethical stands. 
Cul'rently, Proxmire is chairman mittee on the Humanities. 

2 the observer Friday, February 6, 1976 


,__Qn Campus Today 
friday' february 6 9 am-5 pm -peace corps and vista volunteers in library 
noon-10 pm -valley mobile home chapters trailer show. ace. 
noon-S pm 4:15pm 
4:30pm 
5:15pm 6 pm-2 am 
9 pm-1 am 7 pm, 9:15 1130pm 11 pm-12 pm 

r 
r 
MILANO'S PIZZA 
r 14" CHEESE PIZZA 
r 
REG. $3.40

! NOW $3.00!!! 
f 
r 
Effective Feb. 6, 7,8. 
r 
' 


THANK YOU
~ 
tickets 1.50 

-exposition of the blessed sacrament, lady chapel, sacred heart church 
lecture "family labor supply and negative income' tax," stanley stevenson, jr., brookings institute and hew, washington, d.c., rm. 105, law building 
-colloguium,'"on the structure. and a~stra~ isomorphisms split over quadratic extens1on_s, prof. b. weisfeiler, institute for a?vanced stud1es, princeton univ., rm. 226, computmg ce_nter-math­matics bldg., sponsored by mathematiCS dept. 
-mass and dinner, bulla shed. 
-mardi gras, fifties night with wsnd, stepan center 
north quad party, north dining hall 
-movie, murder on the orient express, eng. aud. 
smc coffeehouse, tim peach, mark hopkins 
saturday february 7 

10 am­10 pm valley mobile home chapters trailer show, ace, tickets $1.50 
1 pm basketball, davidson at nd 
3 pm-2 am -mardi gras, music by stratus 
unday, february 8 

11 am black cultural arts festival, religious service by rev. marvin russell, lyons hall 
noon-8 pm valley mobile home chapters trailer show, ace, tickets $1.50 
3 pm -black cultural arts festival, discussion of african art by floyd coleman, ass. prof. of art. and d~sign, southern illinios univ., edwardsville, l1brary lounge 
5 pm -black cultural arts festival, dinner with honored guests: paula dawnog, freshman year counselor, maben herring, asst. eng. prof., law lounge. for reservations call lucille brown 3631, pete cannon 1603, or balsa ofice 3609 
8 pm -black cultural arts festival, keynote address by alex poinsett, senior staff editor, ebony magazine chicago, library aud. 
8pm 

lecture, "pop farley and farley hall," by prof thomas schlereth, farley chapel 
8pm lecture, david burgess speaking on world development and poverty, aud., galvin life science center 
*The Observer 
Night Editor: Dan Sanchez Assistant Night Editors: Mary Janca and Chris Smith 
Bit> ~ed, Blessed layout Staff: F'dul Schappler and Okie Joe C!auer 
Day Editors: Marianne Schulte and Jim Commyn Copy Readers: Mary Egan and Fred Herbst 
Editorials: Jim Stevens 
Features: Val Zurblis and Tom O'Neil 
Sports: Fred Herbst and Don Reimer 
Typists: Marie McCarthy, Mary Tobin, Morey Blinder Martha Fanning (our friend) 
late Typists: Tom O'Neil and Martha Fanning (dear, dear Martha) 
Ad layout: Tom Walrath, Sally Dentz, Mike Miller and Tom Whelan 

****************************** 
~ 
t--A 
~ 
2
• 
:t 
...... 
~ ~ 



FOR YOUR PATRONAGE. 
Open Daily 4:00 P.M. Phone 287-2891. 
******************************* 



St. Mary's recreation funds grow 

by Maureen O'Brien StaffReporter 

Dream becomes reality for St. Mary's. 
Half the need funds for the construction of a new sports and recreation facility have been re­ceived, according to St. Mary's President John M. Duggan. More than $493,000 of an estimated $850,000 needed funds has been received by the college. 
The SMC Committee on Physical Requirements called the recre­:ttion facility in February 1974. 
fhe facility has been in the 
planning stages since then. , 
Architect C.J. Murphy of Chi­cago will design the facility. His firm will present a progress report· to the college's Board of Regents this week. 
"We're anxious to begin con­struction on this building," Dug­gan said. "We'd like to break ground before the students leave for summer break.'' 
The Haggar Foundation and The 
Kresge Foundation donated major gifts for the recreation facility. Haggar Foundation, Dallas, Texas, awarded $150,000 to St. Mary's. Kresge Foundation awarded a $50,000 challenge grant to the college. . 
Major pledges were obtamed from Michiana businesses and corporations. "The College has received funds from St. Joseph Bank, Indiana Bell, Indiana and Michigan Electric and Valley Bank of Mishawaka," Duggan said. 
First Bank and Trust of South Bend, South Bend Tribune and several anonymous donors have also contributed to the fund along with American National BAnk, National Bank, Excel Foundation of Elkart, Whitner Service, Koontz Wagner, South Bend Vending and Osthimer Printing. 
Mardi Gras 
This Friday, Saturday, and Sun­
"~y mark the three final days this 
r of Mardi Gras, an annual 
.pus fund-raising project for the 
...mited Way campaign. All profits 
received will be contributed to the 
fund. All students, faculty, and 
members of the Notre Dame-St. 
Mary's community are urged to 
attend the event in Stepan Center, 
and to "take a chance." 
The Observer is published 11/'()nday through Friday Cl'ld weekly during the surTTTlel' session, except during the exam; Cl'ld vacation periods. The Observer is pubIished by the students of the Univ. of Notre Darre Cl'ld St. Miry's College. Subsa'iptions may be purdlased for $18 ($10 per semester) fro'Tl The Observer, Box Q, Notre Dame, lndiCI'la 46556. Secxlnd Class postage paid, Notre Dame, IN 46556. 
The SMC Women's Basketball Team defeated the Notre Dame team by 9 points on jan 24. A rematch will be held Feb. 25, at 6:30 pm in the ACC Auxiliary Gym [alias The Pit]. (Photo by Who Else)


i··riMM·p·.xRrY·s·raifE:···! 
!OPEN : MON-SAT 9am-11 pmi 
: SUNDAY 12noon -11pm : 
! COLD BEER,WINE, LIQUOR, ! 
! GORMET FOODS ! :3114 S. 11 St. NILES, MICHIGAN!
i "BIGGEST LITTLE : • LIOUOR STOR~ IN MTrJ.fTr! AN" •
••••••••~•••••••••••••eeeeeeea\Y.II~aa\~•••••~ 


·-----------------·A-4, I
I 

I ~·~ I 
I .. "v I

I G'-.J I
2 DAYS OF REFLECTION 

~~~~ II
t DATE: FEB 15, SUNDAY
T 

I 1 PLACE: OLD COLLEGE I 
I DIRECTOR: BILL TOOHEY 1 I esc 1
I DATE: MARCH 21, SUNDAyI 
I 2 PLACE: OLD COLLEGE I I DIRECTORS: DAVE BURRELL I 1 esc 1I JOHN GERBER, I 
1 esc 
1

I ADDITIONAL INFORMATION & SIGN-UP: I CAMPUS MINISTRY, 103 LIB., 6536/8832 I I BABY-SITTERS PROVIDED IF NEEDED I LIMIT OF 15 PERSONS EACH DAY I 



Sophia program still open to frosh 
by Don Reimer Senior Staff Reporter 

Dr. Charles Parnell, Business Dean Bro. Leo Ryan and Fr. George Minimiki explained Sophia Sophmore year abroad program to a group of 12 interested students last night at an informational meeting in the Hayes-Healy Buil­ding. 
Sophia University, located in Tokyo, Japan, is a Jesuit institution which is completely integrated into the Japanese univerisity system. Notre Dame students who attend Sophia University are in the Inter­national Division, where courses are offered for international stu­dents of all nationalities. 
The study of a language during the freshman year at Notre Dame is not a requirment for participation in the Sophia program, accordin~ to Parnell, director of the Foreign Studies Program. 
He noted that several students had gone to Japan in past years without having studied the lan­guage here and after several months they begin to learn enough 
language to get around success­fully Minimiki, who teaches the Jap­anese language course at Notre 
Dame, said that while "it is better to get some preparation" he knows some students who went over without taking a course before hand and came back to the United States and continued to study Japanese with great desire. 
Tokyo "big city" 

Another factor that eases the problems for a student who does not speak Japanese is the "big city" atmosphere of Tokyo. All Japanese take English in secondary school, Minimki explained, and one can usually find someone who speaks English. 
One student who participated in the program last year and did not take the language here at Notre Dame noted that "you pick it up really fast." "The Japanese people are very cordial," he said, "and they make an effort to understand the foreign students." He said that the Japanese consider it a compliment if you can speak their language at all. 
Minimiki also noted that because one uses the things immediately that are learned in class it is much easier to develop a facilty in speaking. 
"Developments in business in 

'Fr. Hesburgh appeared at the Mock Stock Market last Monday, opening day. The market, which runs from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. Monday through Friday, will be open for trading the next three weeks. Stocks are purchased with play-money, available for $1 per $10,000. At the end of the trading period, monetary prizes will be awarded for the three best traders. (Photo by Chris Smith) 
TINO photo exhibits to open 
A reception for two major exhibit­ions currently on display in the Notre Dame Art Gallery are sche­duled for 2 p.m. Sun., Feb. 15. 
"The History of Notre Dame in Art and Photographs" and "Photo­graphs by Walker Evans" are part of the year-long Bicentennial Cele­bration of the gallery, located in O'Shaughnessy Hall. 
Dr. Thomas Schlereth, assistant professor of American Studies author of a newly-published book, The University of Notre Dame: A 
Portrait of Its History and Campus, will be and honored guest at the . reception and will autograph copies 
of his book. 
Also expected to attend the 
reception is Harry Lunn, owner 
ofthe New York galleries where the 
historical photographic records of 
Evans are retained. 
Several major American paint­
ings in the permanent collection of 
the Notre Dame Gallery or recently 
acquired from contemporary artists 
are on display during the year. 
Japan are significant for the world economy." stated Business Deam Ryan, in encouraging business students to consider the program. "There is muc interaction between the U.S. and Japan." 
For these reasons Ryan felt that it would be a very valuable exper­ience to see the economy of another culture, Japan's, in action. Be­sides the value in understanding the increasingly important Jap­anese business world, Ryan felt that lack of a Freshman year language requirement made this program especially suited to busi­ness students. 
Parnell called meeting 
Parnell noted that he had called the meeting partly with the hope of interesting business students be­cause it was the only program still open to them and he cannot contact them through the language classes. 
Presently, Parnell noted, five of the eight students in Japan are business students. 
One business student who spent this past year in Japan noted that Japanese businessmen are very eager to make U.S. contacts and will often take American business students out to dinner. 
Students for the most part live in 
Head-on crash kills 4, injures 2 
WAUSION, Ohio AP -A team of federal investigators will probe Thursday's head-on train crash which killed four Penn Central freight crewmen and injured two others. The two-man team is headed by Elmer Garner, who along with Harold E. Storey, was sent from Washington D.C. to the site of the accident, about 35 miles west of Toledo. 
The trains, which should have been on separate tracks, were carrying general freight and col­lided in a rural area between Wauseon and Archbold. The dead were identified by authorities as W.H. Davis, 42,' of Toledo; Eugene 0. Fuller, 60, of Brooklyn, Mich.; Robert E. Green, 60, of Elkhart, Ind., and Page E. Spray II, 30, also of Elkhart Ind. 
Injured in the collision were Billy 
J. Fuson, 44, of Waldridge, Ohio, brakeman on the westbound train, and Howard W. Phillips, 56, of 
· Maumee, Ohio, conductor on th east-bound train, according to Penn Central spokesman Howard Gilbert. He said Fuson managed to jumb from the engine seconds before impact. Phillips was riding in the caboose at the time. Phillips and Fuson were listed in good condition at the Fulton Coun­ty Health Center in Wauseon. 
Gilbert said three other crew­men, who were at the rear of the trains, escaped injury. 
r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,




GENERALSTORE 
t 

"SALE DAYS ARE HERE!'' I 
1

FEATURING: FADED GLORY t 
ALL MEN' WINTER COATS 30% OFF I SOME SWEATER & SmRTS 20% OFF t 
OPEN: 10 to 9 MONDAY THRU 
"· SATURDAY :r~~· t 12 to 5 SUNDAY t~t 
: 1621 SOUTH BEND AVE· !:'"" t (BEHIND LINEBACKER) t:

L-------------------·....-·... 
• furnished. apartments during their stay in Tokyo, although some live with families or in Japanese stu­dent hou~ing facilities. Because the living quarters are spread throughout the city the students have much more contact with the 
local population. 
The academic year at Sophia 
consists of two normallenth semes­
ters and a short six week session 
and affords the opportunity for a 
maximum of 36 credits. Students 
leave the United States in the end 
of August and are free to return to 
the U.S. by June 1. 
Besides the language courses, 
courses in Japanese History, Cul­
ture and literature are offered. 
The students who had already spent the year in Japan empha­sized the opportunities for travel and entertainment in Tokyo itself. "it is very easy to travel," com­mented one student. "There are trains and hostels all over.'' There is also a great variety in climate in Japan ranging from heavy snows in the Northern islands to almost tropical climates to the South. 
Students may also travel to other Oriental countries. One can get to Korea, for instance, for only about $30. 
Program Initiated by He&blll'gh 
In 1966 while Fr. Theodore 
' Hesburgh was in Tokyo for a conference at Sophia University, explained Minimiki who was also there at the time, he commented, "that it would be fine if we (N.D.) had a program in Tokyo." 
Within one year a program was begun and in the first year 20 students participated in it. Several years later while Minimiki was studying here at Notre Dame he was approached and asked to teach a course in Japanese to the participants in the program. 
The present director of the program is Rev. Jose M. deVera. S.J., who is also the executive vice president of Sophia University. 
Any freshmen who are interested in the program and have not yet contacted Parnell should do so in room 303 O'Shaughnessy Hall. 

Mass Schedule (Main Church)  
5:15 p.m. 9:30p.m. 10:45 p.m. 12:15 p.m.  Rev. Robert Griffin, CSC Rev. Richard J. Conyers, CSC Rev. Ernan McMullin Rev. Bill Toohey, CSC  

Evensong will be at 4:30p.m. In Lady Chapel. 
Town &country OVER! 
Scottsdale 
:·sensational 7th Week" 
SAVE YOUR TICKET STUB! II' Al PACINO DOESN'T WIN AN OSCAR NOMINATION ON FEB. I 
FOR HIS ROLE IN DOG DAY AFTERNOON* YOU'll WIN A FREE PASS. 


~co 

Rico 

RESTAURANTE SCOTTSDALE MALL 
291-3142 
............................ 
MORE AND MORE •• 
• 
TACOS 

• 
IIIRIIOS 

• 
EICIIlADAS 

• 
TOSTADOS

• 
TAIIALES

• 
TACO DOl

• 
lEAl TACO

• 
BARIEQIE TACO

• 
BABY TACO

• 
SPAJIISI lOT DOl• • CIEESEIURIER 



,,.,,.,_, , "' IEIETA/1/MII. •• ,., ,.. IUIUSS TACOS, TAIALES, EICIIlADAS, IIRRIIOS, lUll TACOS, •ITOSTMOS Ill 
1""' 1!11 ,,m.. II 1111 TMD: l"-1 I• 1611 ••,_ Itt "' 1 
I DRAWING "' s25oo CERTIFICATE 1 : m. "' 1•1 AIIIIII:M IIATIIJ.Al lAIII *H Hli II 161 : I TACO RICO I 
I UME PHORE ZIP I
I ----1 
IADDIESS ... -----·-. CITY ______ STATL_I 
1 ND DRAWING: FEB. 11, 1976 1
1 1 



St. Mary's re-accreditation evaluation is ahead 
by Margie Irr Ass't St. Mary's Editor 

The North Central Association for Colleges and Secondary Schools will conduct a reaccreditation eval­uation of St. Mary's on Mar. 22-24. 
A six-person evaluating team, chosen by the association will visit the campus and meet with stu­dents, faculty, administrators and regents. 
Process explained 

Dr. Donald Horning, chairman of the North Central Reaccreditation 
Steering Committee, explained the years ago. He is in favor of the new 
PLACEMENT BUREAU 
Main Building 
INTERVIllWS SCHI::DULEU FOR I-lEEK OF FEBRUARY 17 
Interviews are for seniors and graduate students, Sign­uo schedules are in Room 213, !lain Building, Interview times must be signed for in person, Law School sign-ups are at the Pre-Law Society Bulletin Hoards, O'Shaug~nessy Hall, The sign-up period at the Placement Bureau WJ.ll be from 8:00 ar.1, to 5:00pm., 1\onday through Thursday, 
FEB. 17 Cabot Corp, Stellite Division, Tues Cancelled, '"( R~ontinental Can Co, ~1etals Division, 
;::...~-c. 0 
FEB, 17/18 
Tues/lied, 
FEB. 18 1'/ed, 
FEB, B 
Thurs. 
r'E,F!, B/20 Thurs./Fri. 
FI:l3, 20 
l'r1. 

L'\PLOYI::R L!i'OR'<.,'\TIO:l, ALTER:lA'i'IVI:S, 'l'EI\C;;I:lG, Sti~I!:L~, 1\C':'ION/Pl:ACE CORPS/VISTA, FEJI!!'.'I.L SERVICE, ROOM 213 1 !\D!IIHIST!lATIO:I BUILDING, 
GIVE YOUR LOVED ONE 
what he or she really deserves ­an Observer 
VALENTINE Classified 
Special Issue Feb. 13 
.Get 10 words ot \eve for only $1.00. What a deal! 
in AL, BA and EG, 
Equitable Life Assurance Society, All BBA, Eli Lilly and Company, 
ll~\ in MEI0 1 CE, ChE, ll in HE, EE, !Iarine Midland l.lank-liestern, Cancelled, Old Kent Bank & Trust Co, All l.!BA, United States Steel Corp, B in ChE, EE, ME, liet, 
ilaqnavox-Governrnent & Industrial Electric Company, i3 in EE and ME, Procter & Gamble Co. Sales !1anagernent, Bll in AL and BA, Irnrned, Sales respons, leading to sales management, 
MIOCO Oil, Research Center, Chern, Corp. BMD in ChE, Bl1 J.n CE, EE, PhD J.n Chern, GTE Service Corporation, B in Acct, & Fl.n, HBA must have 15 !irs, minimum of Acct, Procter & Gamble Co, Acct, & Fin, Dept, B~-1 in AL, BA, Any rna]or wJ.th strong interest in Acct, and Fin, Sirr~ons Company, B in Mkt, 
Aetna Life & Casualty Co, Casualty Div, 
All BBA, Globe Engineering Co, !3 J.n Arch, IJ 1n CE 1 f:E, I:I:, w, R, Grace & Co, Davison Chern, Div, 
l.l in ChE, MBA >Ji th llS in llngr, Hallmark Cards, B!1 in AL, BA, :lath, Chern, l1E, !!EIO, ChE, Hyster Company. Cancelled. 
Pullr.1an, Inc, Cancelled, Scott Paper Co, ;,11 BBA and 'Ill!\, UARCI) Inc, All aBA, MBA w/~lgt, Background or cone, 
American Hospital Supply Corp. B in 1\L and ill3A, 1!!3A. Anaconda Co, Ilire & Cable Div, Insulated & bare w1re & caule, B in all disc, for Inriu5trial Sales, D in EE & :m for Process & Facilities Enqr, l.l in AL, BA for l!mploynent Interviewer, Locations: :<ationwide, 
!\, u, Dick Company, ~mA, :Ill.\, fl.! 1n !lath, r:con, Pol. Sci, Engl. Dow Chemical U,S.A. lluA, :mA, 13'! J.n cfiz.; & Chern. Lever ilrot~\ers Co, il in ,'\L 1 JA, '!IJA, PennsjlVania Power & Liqht Co, . PuLlic Utility, 8 in ~~. CC, Generat1on, various Cnqr positions, =~ch Desiqn, Location: P.'l, Pcrr:t, Resident Vi5a required. 
evaluation process. "The evalu­ation involves a self-study by the college, as well as the evaluating team visit. All constituencies of the college have submitted self­evaluation reports according to the guidelines set forth by the Steering Committee," he said. 
In addition, the college is re­quired to submit a general status report. The entire self-study report has been sent to members of the evaluating team. 
Homing said that this type of evaluation is different from the statistic-oriented evaluation of tern receive one soon. "With a largemethod. 

(ten member) Steering Committee, "The real advantage of this is I think that we have done a goodthat it forces an institution to look job of taking a long range look at at itself objectively. That can be the college. However, people canvery difficult, but is very helpful,'' still question what we've said in the Horning emphasized. "We've report," said Homing. 
seen negative and positive aspects 
of the college and perhaps we The North Central reaccredit­haven't seen everything yet," he ation evaluation of St. Mary's will 
added. not be based on comparison to The final report, which was other colleges. The visiting team, compiled and written by the Steer­from six Midwestern colleges, in­ing Committee, is available to all cludes two college presidents, two members of the college commun­deans and two professors. ity. "The group is a control. They The library has a copy, and will see St. Mary's from the 
the office of Student Affairs will outside, which none of us are capable of doing," Horning ex­plained. ''They will use their own judgement, influenced in part by their own institutions. North Cen­tral has standards, but no ideal model. The group will evaluate and make recommendations on these standards," he concluded. 
Evaluation: Important 

Dr. William Hickey, vice pres­ident for Academic Affairs, discus­sed the importance of the evalu­ation. "It forces us to ask questions about our goals. Grad­uates have been an important part of the self-study. We've talked to them to learn how they feel about the education they received here. From this we have seen how they feel about the education they received here. From this we have seen how we can improve and 
Chicago Tribune editor slated 

to lecture Monday afternoon 
Maxwell McCrohon, one of the circulation in the first two years of youngest managing editors in the operation. 128-year history of the Chicago Tribune, will discuss ''The Ameri­Australian born, he gained his can Press 200 Years Later: Still 
early newspaper experience as a 
Fighting" at 3:30 p.m. Mon. Feb., reporter for the Syndney Morning 9 in the Library Auditorium. Herald and was sent to New York as a foreign correspondent in 1952. One of the Cardinal O'Hara 
He later joined the Chicago Ameri· Memorial Lectures, the talk is 
can as a reporter and worked as a open to the public. 
re-write man, copy editor, feature editor, magizine editor and Sunday McCrohon was part of an editor­editor. ial group that designed and launch­
The Cardinal O'Hara lectureedChlcago Today, a compact paper series honors the first dean of the converted from the Chicago Ameri­College of Business Administration can which the Tribune had acquir­and annually brings to the campused from the Hearst Corporation. 
noted leaders in the fields of As managing editor, . he saw politics, education, industry and 
Chicago Today surpass _t_ts after­business. 
noon competitor, Chicago Dally Visiting speakers generally sche­News, by some 50,000 total 
dule discussions with students and faculty membersduring their stay'Hotline' volunteer on campus. 

school to open 
A training school for volunteer workers on t~e "Hotline" crisis intervention ti!Iephone will begin on Mar. 1. The school will meet for two and a· half hours a week for six weeks. 
When a-volunteer starts work. he will work one four shift a week 'with an expert listener. Interested individuals should call 232-8201. 
. The "Hotline" number is 232­3344. 



BULLA SHED 
a warm spot on a cold day! 
JOIN US -meet new people ­especially if you have never come 


This Friday and every Friday Mass -Dinner 5:15 pm

.L----------­
. . . 
.. ,. ·,. # # # # # • 1 1 ' r ' #' ' 1-I r " " • " • '" • " • " ,.. • 
adapt the curriculum," Hickey 
explained. 
While the evaluation centers on 
student life, academic programs 
and fauclty, other areas are also 
included. Hickey noted that things 
such as the number of volumes in 
the library, construction of the 
activities center and student gov­
ernment contribute to the quality 
of education. 
Asked if the evaluation and recommendations might result in any major changes at St. Mary's, Hickey replied, "No major changes are expected. More of what we're doing now and strengthening some programs will be about the extent of it." 
Hickey summarized his view on the reaccreditation evaluation. "The whole process involves an in-depth look at St. Mary's. It's other institutions helping an insti­tution to look at itself. I think we have every right to be confident.'' 
Disinterest cancels 





weekend ski trip 
The Student Union ski trip, 
scheduled for this weekend at 
Crystal Mountain in Michigan, has 
been cancelled because not enough 
students expressed an interest in 
it, Student Union sources , an­
nounced yesterday. 
Only 17 students signed up for 
the trip. 
Sources said the trip will be 
rescheduled for a weekend later in 
the semester. This weekend's trip 
-">nflicted with the last days of 
Mardi Gras, a North Quad party 
and a home basketball game, they 
added. 


Accounting award competition opens 
The accountin~ firm of Ernst & 
Ernst will sponsor an annual Acc­
ounting Achievement A ward at 
Saint Mary's. Howard W. Moody, 
partner of the firm, recently pre­
sented Saint Mary's President 
John M. Duggan with the agre­
ment at the College. 
The award, a $500 tuition sti­
pend, will be presented to a 
student who intends to complete a 
minimum of 21 hours in accounting 
and who is interested in public 
accounting. Based on scholarship, 
leadership, citizenship, character 
and extra-curricular activities, the 
Ernst & Ernst Accounting Ach­
ievement Award will be presented 
to a junior student for use during 
her senior year. 



students receive financial support 
byTomByme Staff Reporter 

Approximately 2800 students re­
quested financial aid this year and 
almost all received some form of 
assistance, according to June 
McCauslin, director of the office of 
Financial Aid. 
However, while requests for this 
aid have been increasing, the 
capacity of the University to res­
pond to them in the form of grants 
has not, and sizeable proportions of 
students have been forced to resort 
to loans. 
"We have a static amount of aid 
here," explained McCauslin. "We 
can't take out of current income to 
finance scholarships." 
Although it is frequently pro­claimed that 55 percent of the Notre Dame student body is receiv­ing some sort of financial aid, the figure is somewhat deceiving be­cause it includes employment and loans as forms of financial aid. 
"The amount of gift aid is less here than at some other universi­ties, although the percentage of students being assisted in some 
Patty observes 
'Tania' movie 

SAN FRANCISCO--(AP)--Patricia 
Hearst watched on a darkened 
screen a silent movie of an 
armed "Tania" wearing a wig 
inside the bank she is accused of 
helping to rob. 
The movie, pieced together by 
the government from still photos 
taken by a bank camera, showed 
Miss Hearst brandishing a carbine 
at customers who tried to enter the 
Hibernia Bank branch while mem­
bt.'rs of the Symbionese Liberation 
Army staged their hold-up. 
The film runs slightly less than 
two minutes. 
The defense contends the heiress 
was in the bank as an unwilling 
captive, but two of her former 
underground companions, Bill and 
Emily Harris, said in Los Angeles 
Thursday that Miss Hearst was a 
strong and assertive" comrade who 
stayed with the SLA after her 
kidnap "based on her own initia­
tive and free choice." 
Meanwhile, the Chicago Tribune 
reported Thursday that Miss 
Hearst was given a chance to 
return to her parents about a month 
after her kidnapping by the SLA. 

Income tax help to begin in area 
Over 200 Notre Dame students 
with special knowledge of income 
tax regulations will resume their 
annual assistance program for fam­
ilies of low income at eight South 
Bend area locations, Feb. 7. 
The free service, now in its fifth 
year, will be continued through the 
April15, filing deadline. 
The neighborhood centers and the hours of operation for the tax program include Northeast Neigh­borhood Center, Mondays, 5 to 8 p.m.; Clay Neighborhood Center, Tuesdays, 5 to 8 p.m.; LaSalle Neighborhood Center, Wednes­days, 5 to 8 p.m.; Southeast Center, Mondays, 5 to 8 p.m.; Meadowbrook Center, Wednesday, 11 a.m. to 2 p.m.; Hansel Neigh­borhood Center, Tuesdays and Thursdays, 5 to 9 p.m.; and Senior Citizen Center, Fridays, 10 a.,. to noon. 
In addition, certified public ac­countants will be on duty at Hansel Neighborhood center Thursdays from b to 8 p.m. 
Spanish-speaking students will work at LaRaza Center Saturdays from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. and certified public accountants will be there Saturdays from 11 a.m. to 4 p.m. 
Directed by James A. Laurie, graduate student in the College of Business Administration, the pro­gram is designed to reduce the amount of taxes paid or to generate refunds for more than a thousand families. 

way is about the same," stated financial assistance comes from the haven't contacted us," stated First Bank and Trust and Nat­McCauslin. "People don't realize federally guaranteed student loan Smith. His bank has been effected 
ional Bank and Trust student loanthat for years this was a poor man's program. Aid comes in the form of more than any local bank! by clerks indicated also that they haduniversity. Our endowment did not a loan to the student from his local student loan defaults and by experienced only a few defaults.

build up from years ago." bank. lethargic attention from the federal "The federal program is the
Most money for the Notre Dame "So many of the students here government. 
most economical way to obtain aScholar program, the only channel are receiving loans because they Of four major banks in South student loan because it guarantees of gift aid offered by the University come from across the country," Bend, all require that the student 

an interest rate of 7 percent," said was donated by Florence Daily, "a McCauslin explained. In some be a local resident, preferring in Devoe. "A conventional loan to the woman we had never known," southern states it is difficult to get particular those with previous ac­
parents would have a much higherMcCauslin said. Received over ten a student loan, although in states counts at the bank. All attest that rate." years ago, the nine million dollar like Pennsylvania, Illinois and New no preference is given to law or McCaulsin elaborated on the 
gift provided the bulk of the York it is not so hard." graduate students over undergrad­benefits of the endangered pro­University's general scholarship The student loan program has uates, and only one, First Bank and gram. "The federal governmentfund. been embroiled in a recent contro­Trust Company, expressed reluc­
will subsidize the interest if the

Including jobs, loans and grants, versy due to a plague of defaults. tance to extend loans to freshmen. parental adjusted income is lessthe average aid per student totals While McCauslin commented that American National Bank's stud­
than fifteen thousand dollars an­$2245 this year. "the problem is not as bad as the ent loan clerk Thomas Devoe, nually. This can also be done if weNeed is foremost in determining banks say," George Smith, in indicated his bank has currently tell the bank that the student has a

who will receive assistance, provid­charge of student loans at St. issued SO student loans, with 
need." 

ing the student exhibits top acad­Joseph Bank and Trust Company, roughly 15 of these recipients McCaulsin emphasized that stu­emic achievement. Information claims that the situation is more attending Notre Dame. Devoe was 
dents wishing assistance for the fall concerning finances is obtained serious. 

aware of the default dilemma, but should pick up their applications
entirely through the Parents Con­"We filed a claim on a default in commented, "We've only had two before spring break. The deadline fidential Statement. In the view of May of last year and they still problems so far." 
for the PCS is April 1. 

McCauslin no cutoff point for 
parental income can be reasonably 
established. 

Lonesome George, last known tortoise 
"It depends on the family cir­cumstances completely," she de­

of his sub-species, looking for a mate
clared. "For example, a family 
making $10,000 a year with good 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Consider goats to the island. The goats 
tion said many zoos have captiveassets and only one child might not 

the plight of Lonesome George, the destroyed the vegetation necessary 
giant Galapagos t~rtoises.

receive aid, while a family making 
Pinta Island tortoise who probably for the giant tortoise's survival. 
Whether one of these tortoises$30,000 annually with eight chil­

is the world's loneliest creature. Intensive searches on Pinta Is­
will turn out to be a Pinta Island eligible.'' Lonesome George is the last land since George's discovery have subspecies instead of one of the 10 dren and three in college might be 
known member of his sub-species, failed to turn up any others.
McCauslin indicated that Notre other subspecies remains 
the last to carry the traits peculiar Indeed, Lonesome George may
Dame does not grant "merit" unknown. It takes a biology expert to his breed. There are no known hold the distinction of being the
scholarships. unlike some univer­or another tortoise to tell the 
females of this particular giant rarest creature in the world.
sities. Such programs are used to difference, the spokesman said. lure the most prominent students, Galapagos Island tortoise. In 1972, George was brought to "If even one female can be regardless of need. And Lonesome George is expect­the Charles Darwin Research Sta­found, then the chances for saving 
Minorities are extended no pref­ed to live another century. tion on Santa Cruz Island, the the Pinta tortoise are very great,''erential treatment by the financial Lonesome was discovered in headquarters for most research on says Craig MacFarland, director of aid office, according to McCauslin, 1971 while slowly plodding across the Galapagos, a group of islands 
the Charles Darwin Research Cen­requiring the same level of acad­Pinta Island, perhaps in search of a off the Ecuadorian coast. His age is ter, in a recent paper on the emic achievement as anyone else. mate. estimated at 40 to 60 years. 
tortoise. 

She noted, however, that a three Before the discovery of Lone­The World Wildlife Fund, a Wardens have killed almost
million dollar endowment exists to some George, the Pinta Island conservation organization, today is 37,000 goats on the island and the
aid minority students, independent 
subspecies was thought to be scouring zoos across the globe in 
vegetation on Pinta Island "hasof the financial aid office. 

extinct, killed off by 19th century hopes of finding a mate for George. 
recovered remarkably," said Mac­The largest source of student mariners and the introduction of 


KEN'S DEN 
--HAIR STYLING -­MEN & WOMEN 
ACROSS FROM 1 00 CENTER (LINCOLNWAY WEST IN MISHAWAKA) 
PHONE 255-6500 
Budweiser® 

APPOINTMENTS PREFERRED 




~eagles¢­~oritt 
100 CENTER COMPLEX 
any regularOFF priced item with this ad. 

MICHELOB® 


on independent student newspaper Founded November 3, 1966 
The Observer is published by the students of the University EDITORIAL BOARD 
of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. It does not necessarily Terry Keeney E'ditor-in-Chief reflect the policies of either institution. The news is reported AI Rutherford Managing E'ditor as accurately and objectively as possible. Editorials represent Jim Eder Executive E'ditor
the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Com­mentaries are the views of individual editors. Opinions, 
Paf Hanifin Editorial E'ditor cartoons and regular columns express the views of their Bob Mader News E'ditor authors. Column space is available to all members of the Maureen Rynn Campus E'ditor community, and leHers are encouraged to promote the free Mary Janca St. Mary's E'ditor expression of varying opinions on campus. Ken Bradford Copy E'ditor 
Val Zurblis Wire E'ditor 
Editorials: 283-1715 News: 213-8661 Business: 283-7471 
Tom O'Neil Features E'ditor Business Manager Tom Modglin 
Bill Brink Sports E'ditor Advertising Manager Tom Whelan 
Dan Sanchez Senior Night E'ditor 

Friday, February 6, 1976 





SavingSem 
Collegiate Seminar has unfortuneately fallen University-wide requirerrent for at least one short of its original p\lll)OSe. The program was serrester of the ''classics.'' To be effective the originally intended to provide all Notre Drure program would require substantial University students with a solid exposure to the great commitrrent of IIX>ney, professors and tirre. classic thinkers and writers. But today the Given the minimal support the University Collegiate Seminar program has strayed far has provided Collegiate Seminar, such a mnntezuma's revenge!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!from its original mission to provide a serious University-wide requirerrent is highly unlikely. academic discussion of the classics. Besides, let's be realistic: Most students 
Instead, Collegiate Seminar is often rrerely a don't want to take another required course, bull session rumng students supervised by much less be forced to read the classics. Many instructors who do little IIX>re than rmderate students are fed up with requirerrents, 
Gullible's Travels 
the discussion. Sorre sections are not even especially with the Senior Values Seminar taught by the faculty rrembers, but by law scheduled to be mandatory for all present 
•

students and graduate students. Sorre of the sophoiiX>res. -..-.-.-.-.-.-.--.rayranurezreadings can be considered ''Classic'' only in What needs to be done is to make Collegiate the widest stretch of the imagination. Seminar optional and make a serious effort to 
For those of you who have not yet had the opportunity to attend
Seminar has becorre kind of a joke in Arts recruit non-Arts and letters students for the 
this year's edition of Mardi Gras, I want to urge you to go and lose 
and letters. Because the reading lists and course. This solution, while temporary, would 
some money. It is for a good cause, you know. Just in case you course requirerrents vary so much from permit those students who are interested in the won't have a chance to go at all, let me tell you about some of the instructor to instructor, students scramble classics and who enjoy the course to take more interesting attractions to be had this year: 
during registration to find the easiest section. Collegiate Seminar. 
Corby Hall has a booth up for the first time. Shaped like a huge
Sorre academic advisors have counseled their Since there would be fewer students taking 
confessional, the booth contains quite a few games of chance. In
students to avoid taking Collegiate Seminar the course the average quality of the instru~ 
one of the more interesting games, players wager to see which
because they consider it a waste of tirre. tors could be improbed. by keeping only the 
priest out of a numbered set will be the last remaining in Gregorian 
What seems IIX>st puzzling about Collegiate best and IIX>st knowledgeable. The quality of Chant musical chairs. Naturally, Father Burtchaell will be in the Seminar is that it is a two-serrester require­discussion would improve since students dunking booth again this year. A real crowd pleaser, the good rrent for each Arts and letters student, taking the class would be taking it because of a Father went in nineteen times last year ... and never got wet. The dining halls will be represented this year. In addition to the
whereas the students in Business, Science or genuine interest and since the addition of 
ever popular "guess-the-food" booth, there will be a crap-table
Fngineering, who is less likely to read the non-Arts and letters majors would give the 
where players, as usual, will have to take their chances. The dining 
great classics than the Arts and letters student classes a wider range of viewpoints. The 
hall booth breaks with tradition this year by being modeled in the has no such requirerrent. sections would perhaps be made smaller. likeness of a veal parmesan. Previously, all booths run by the dining No one can argue with the original purpose Finally, these smaller, IIX>re IIX>tivated., halls were modeled after something edible. of Collegiate Seminar. There is great rrerit in better directed classes could be allowed Th South Bend Police Department's Twenty-One booth will be back, and as custom dictates, one plays by their rules. If you have
the philosophy that certain things are required greater flexibility in their approach and thus 
twenty-one or over yoirwin, but if you are caught before you go over
of an educated person. To have so~m serve as ideal testing grounds for new ideas 
twenty-one, you bust. The simplicity of the rules has tempted someknowledge of the ideas of Aristotle, Plato and and rrethods. people in the past to cheat at this game, but if you are in the least bit Dante is valuable for any student intent on Collegiate Seminar has been dying a slow of doubt, remember ... all ties go to the courts. a college degree. death for several years. Now is the tirre to put This will also mark -the third year for the presentation of the 
It would make academic sense to have sorre it out of its misery. Derwood Kirby award for the most spirited play of any individual at the various Mardi Gras competitions. 
Previous winners have been Leon "Get-Back" Webster who played black-jack using a real black-jack and not only broke the bank, but the dealer's knuckles as well, and Harry "Poker-Face" Filmantino. Harry's expressionless stare psyched-out the dealers

P.O. Box Q 
completely, who learned much later that Harry had given up the ghost on the opening night of Mardi Gras and had merely remained 
they commanded the allegiance of sense, our enemies, and we must propped-up against the dealer's table for the duration of the80% of the people and most of the be alert to our own survival.
Angola's 

gaming. Harry won the ugliest man on campus competition laterterritory until recent weeks when that same year, but that's another story. 
they have been steamrollered by Beyond pragmatics, there is 
I suppose all newcomers to Mardi Gras ·should learn of another Different the superior arms of Castro's idealism. In 1976, if ever, America hallowed tradition. Since all money is won in the spirit of good fun, 
Cubans. Until then, FNLA and should be willing to extend itself to it has been customary to send all winnings to a deservingDear Editor: UNIT A appeared to be competently peoples who have the will but lack features-writer whose first and last initials are identical. In theled and willing to fight. Unfortu­the means to resist -tyrannic forms spirit of fair play I plan to donate my winnmgs to this noble cause.
nately, they could not stop tanks of government. Our isolationist
I am shocked by the recent It's the least I can do.
and rockets with rifles. stance is, as it was prior to Worldoverwhelming vote of the House of 
War II, the ostrich with its head in 
Representatives to suspend aid to Personally, I believe that Con­body the benefit of the doubt) to
the sand. As the strongest nation
Angola. I am shocked that the gressmen can perceive these im­the tasteless (although admittedly

Legitimate Art
of the free world, we have a moral
Vietnam experience, ugly as it was, portant distinctions as well as I, but humorous) banners on public dis­
responsibility to oppose the Cubans 
has so blinded legislators that they m~ny choose not to for political Dear Editor: play during the USC weekend is
and Russians in their attempt to
cannot see the differences between reasons. These politicians believe rather flimsy. 
determine the lives of Africans. 
Angola and Vietnam. that voters lack the awareness to I was very surprised at the gross From the tone of the letter it distinguish one foreign involve­The Angola as quagmire rhetoric lack of understanding and total wasn't clear whether the author 
I objected ot our involvement in ment from another. They assume does not deter me either. Again, disregard for logic in Steve Thomp­was crusading Christian, a dis­Vietnam as soon as it became clear that because we were outraged by the Vietnam analogy is false. We· son's letter pertaining "Last Tango gruntled moviegoer repulsed byto me, in about 1967, that we were Vietnam, we will rail against aid to in Paris". It would be unfortunate
can give financial aid and arms modern cinema, or still another 
not fighting communism nearly so Angola. if such misunderstanding were student attempting an attack on
without directly involving our fight­
much as upholding a corrupt and 

ing forces. I we cannot draw this widespread. Father Hesburgh and ND in gene­
unpopular, vestigially colonial re­Based on the reactions of others I us For starters, "Last Tango in ral.
line, Vietnam has taught no­
gime. Not only were we foolish to know here at Notre Dame, the Paris" is not an "obviously ob­
thing. Do Congressmen and Personally I am rather pleased
give dollars to Diem and Thieu, we politicos, as usual, have underes­Senators distrust themselves so scene movie''. It is a legitimate that Cinema '76 has brought in were doubly foolish to send Ameri­timated the public intelligence. attempt at cinema art which an movies such as "Last Tango".
much that they really believe they
can soldiers when the indigenous While the sentiments of the late individual may or may not approve Cinema
will be unable to say STOP when They (the people at '76)
will to resist was virtually nonexis­sixties were underlined with anti­of.
the time comes? H so, I have more supply a great service to the Notre 
tent. war rhetoric, the force of the public Nobody forced anyone to look at Dame community by presenting
confidence in them than they do in 
outcry was less antiwar than anti­it, so people such as Mr. Thompson movies of cultural merit that are
themselves.
But Angola is different. The two Vietnam. A pragmatic awareness 
have very little room to complain. out of the mainstream of popularpro-Western factions, FNLA and persists, despite detente that there The comparison of a motion picture American cinema. 
UNITA, both espouse Western Is a global struggle, the USSR and Michael L. Snyder patronized by a "consenting adult style social democracy; together their Cuban lackeys are, in a real Notre Dame Law School '76 audience" (I give the ND student John Ford 
.. ) ) 

Letters to a Lonely God 

aprohibitiue word 
Reverend Robert Griffin 


Being a member of the Roman Catholic 
Church is like being adopted as the child of 
a quaint, strange, eccentric, rather marvel­
lous old lady who is gossiped about 
maliciously by all the best people in the 
neighborhood. In addition to you, she is 
the mother to a great brood of children 
who are always quarreling among themsel­
ves, and who are apt to pick a fight with the 
policeman or the mayor, or with those well-
intentioned ladies of fashion who, swoop­
ing down on uncared-for street urchins, are 
thoughtful enough to want to help them 
wipe their runny noses. Our mother-figure 
is too outrageous to be fashionable except 
occasionally, when, in the rush of passing 
fads, she becomes accidentally elegant 
because everyone is dressing mediaevally 
and nun-like that season. With the coming 
of bikinis in the summer, she is dowdy 
again, and a frump to be Iau~'l\ed at until 
the next time around, when, like a stopped 
clock, she will be right for the second time 
that day. 
Our mother, then, is the strange, 
seemingly mad woman who lives down the 
block in the biggest, strangest house of the town. People snicker at that house for being a museum used for storing junk. "It's full of trash," they say, "That should have been thrown out a century ago." They will stare at the house as though it were full of cats, and they wonder why the lightning doesn't strike it and burn it down as an offense to heaven. Our Mother, standing at an upstairs window, shouts at them to come in. Some of the people do come in, and they love the comfort of Greek swimming pools and Jewish cooking. The people outside merely shake their heads. "It's a flophouse full of foreigners," they say, because they can see the Avignon draperies and pipes of Galway through the 
windows. 
The fascinating thing about eccentric old ladies is how they continue to survive. Take our mother, for example. Amidst the rumors of who she is sleeping with, where she gets her money from, and how she is supported, the news has come at least a half dozen times that she is dead. Suddenly, she shows up again, and it is evident that she is sporting with vigor. Again and again, she has been escorted to the edge of town, given bus fare, and told never to show her face there again. But when the vigilantes return to their homes, they find that the lights are on in the strange old house, there's a party in 
and our mother is leading the
process, and wholesome as a grandmother rebuking 
• ~ tu week preuiew i• 
: tom o'neil: 
The best of the TV premiere movies this week is A Touch of Oass, starring Glenda Jackson and George Segal. The plot of this is pure melo-drama: a divorcee with a touch of class and a married man with myriad hang-ups get together at unusual times for the usual bed-bouncing, and all with the understanding that the relation­ship be strictly a sexual one. Compli­cations necessarily evolve (Foolish Love sets in) ~nd the plot unwinds. mostly ~s Y?u e~pect It to. But ~he mov1e, despite 1ts chche plot sturcture IS excellent. Moments of it are genuinely comical, and the elements of itsproduction which elevates it above the typical film of its genre is its element of sophistication. Glenda Jackson won an Oscar (token incense) for her performance, and the film was nominated for Best Film in 1973. It is brilliant light entertainment. Thursday at 9 on ch, 6. 
Sam Peckinpah's The Getaway will be on tonight at 9 on 22. Steve McQueen and Ali McGraw portray husband and wife bank robbers involved in an intense and absorb­ing getaway after an unsuccessful robbery attempt. Bonnie and Qyde this movie is not, and neither is this commercial couple (married in true life) . But Peckinpah is Peckinpah, and for lovers of literal gut­spelling--this is your feast of feasts. 
Rich Man, Poor Man, a TV-adaptation of Irwin Shaw's best-selling novel (in the TV tradition of QB VB[ is convincing a lot of viewers that thelvision is making an honest effort to produce superlative in the home entertainment these days. The last two installments were excellent and exception-quadrille. 
Perhaps it is tasteless to compare the Church with the dowager ladies in strange hats who have acquired a reputation for being naughty. Perhaps saying this is borrowing too heavily from the imagery of her enemies, who have never hesitated to call her the whore of Babylon fornicating with the kings of the earth. Like any faithful son, I do affirm my mother's virtue despite the fact that she is so visible in the children who know themselves to be her Human Element, making her seem shabby with sin. At times, the Church seems to be only the Human Element, and even the best of our Element seems worthy of hanging ... with the exception of people like Mother Teresa and Pope John XXIII, and some nuns that I know of, and everybody's mother including yours and mine. But there is also the Church as a ministry of healing, and a ministry of sanctifying, and ministry of redeeming, and as a ministry of teaching; all these ministries belong to the Human Element also, but God is in their midst like breathing. In all our brokenness, we are nourished as infants who are breast-fed on grace, and the gentleness of God and the various ministries together are exper­ienced as a cherishing whose fitting metaphor is that of a mother watching over a nursery. 
A couple of weeks ago, the dowager lady of Christianity made a fool of herself again: a document was issued in Rome affirming the traditional moral viewpoint that the exercise of sexual rights should occur within the context of marriage. It was not a new teaching, nothing that I had never heard before. That is why it seemed so wild, so outrageous,so deliciously impudent. We have so many infallible opinions on this point, all of them contradicting the tradition. Actresses give us their opinion, and sometimes their experiences, nightly on television talk shows. Novelists give us their opinion in plots exploring the last clinical detail. Comedians give us their opinion in the idiom of leer and smut. Even the President's wife gives us her opinion; she's entitled to, and I don't like her less for it, though 1 would prefer a world that is more reticent with its sexual viewpoint. 
In the midst of it all, to a world growing grosser by the day with sexual permis­siveness, the Church spoke a prohibitive word, and it sounded as clean and decent 
al and the.series h.as only begun. It sapns 
23 ye~rs tn the hves o~ two brot~ers at 
opposite ends of the soc1o-econom1c poles 
and took $6 million and ywo directors to 
produce. There are 12 full hours of this on 
somebody's .shelf and only four of those 
~ave been a1red already. Catch the next 
tnstallment Monday at 10 on 28. 

An archeological look at China's past can be seen on PBS Monday at 8:00. Entitled, SII Hundred MIUeni...: China's IDstory Unearthed, the special spans 600,000 years of China's history as reflected in its works of art. 
Sports 

The XII Winter Olympics will be the primary feature of television this week on ch 28. The schedule goes as follows; 
Saturday 12:30-3:30;6:30-7:00;9-11 
Sunday 2:30-4:30;6-6:30;9-11 
Monday 8:30-10 
Tuesday 9-11 
Wednesday 8-11 
Thursday 9-10:30 

This schedule is subject to last minute 
change by ABC. 

The Notre Dame-Davidson game will begin at 1:00 on ch 16, followed by Miami (Ohio-Bowling Green basketball. 
The Bob Hope Desert Clus•c will be shown at 5 p.m. Saturday and at 4 p.m. Sunday on 16. In the NBA, the Braves meet the 76ers Sunday at 1:30 on 22. MSU vs. Indiana will be on Monday at 7:30 on 22. 
a guttersnipe with a mouthful of obscen­ities. Playboy won't stop publishing, Penthouse won't stop printing because Someone Roman has given the word; the kinky, tacky pornoshops on Forty-second street will continue as before. But somehow, the world has had to contend with a breath of fresh, clean air, and the whole place has been made safer for flesh-bearing celibates. Only I don't think you have to be celibate to consider that the conversations on Carson are more than a little cheap. 
I don't know that the last word of the Church is ever spoken in a Vatican document; that is a point I must leave to the theologians. I don't know that the last word on human sexuality will ever be spoken as long as man is a mystery in search of his depth. 
But no matter how the terms of the document are negotiated in favor of freedom, I know that our mother has spoken, telling us something precious about ourselves. It is not always easy to listen to an old-fashioned voice, but when I think of some of the other voices I have heard lately, I hear words from the Church full of caring and truth. If I am tempted to say, "Oh come now, nobody thinks like that any more," I answer myself: "The Church thinks like that." It's outrageous, of course, and a little embarrasing, but I'm not going to apologize for her. Maybe next week, Masters and Johnson will have caught up with her, and I'll read in the Times that her views are in style again. That quaint, eccentric, rather marvellous old lady has always had a way of being smarter than her critics. 

1  Byrne-Fitzgerald platform promises of 1975-76 In view of the upcoming Student Body President election and the platforms which will accompany the candidates' bids for the office The Observer Invites the student body to compare the platform promises of the current student administration with their actual performance In the past year. Such a comparlson will provide an Insight toward valuing the platform promises of SBP candidates In the near future. ~-------------------­BYRNE-FHZ ----------------------~ We propoee to reorpabe the branche. of student government to Increase their abillty to deal with ...y luae that concerns student. Therefore, we would like tor 1.) Bring the SU Director, HPC President and SLC Representative into the cabinet of Student Government; 2.) Combine duplicating services, like Student Government Treasurer and Student Union Comptroller 3.) Create a central file for all reports, which will be easily accessible to students faculty and administrators. ' Improve communfcatlons with students and alumni by using direct means. We propose to: 1.) Issue a Student Government Newsletter, which would be independent of The Observer; 2.) Meet with Hall Councils to better determine student opinion, and to coordinate action between Halls and Quads. We'll call the first meeting and then the HC's will call us; 3.) Send out questionnaires to Alumni to determine their feelings about the university, with the intent to answer any questions and enlist Alumni support for ideas students are working on. We will try to get more student representation on boards and groups which Influence student Ufe. We will requestr 1.) Representation on the Board of Trustees; 2.) Continued association with the Indiana Student Lobby; 3.)Student representation in neighboring groups formed where there is a high concentration of students in the area. Derive Ideas that we'd Uke to work on for students: 1.) Nazz, Darby's, Quickie; 2.) Free University; 3.) Renovation of Basement of LaFortune; 4.) Open up Women's Laundry Service by increasing number and availability of machine in their dorms. 5.) Share plans for home game tailgate parties in the fall. (We've done it for two years.) 6.) Clarify for students how Faccenda's recently passed bill on University liability will affect University party policy.  
Soph Lit Tid-bit Teasers Match each description below with the names at left and learn more about the authors who will be appearing at the Sophomore LiteraryFestival, February 15-21. Jorge Borges 1. This author originally wanted to go into acting and eventually founded and directed a drama group called The Apprentice Theatre. John Gardner 2. This author translated the works of the FrenchLouis Simpson poet Francoise Villon into English. May Sarton 3. This author has rewritten Beowulf from the monster Grendel's point of view. Robert Haas JaupJliD uqorGalway Kinnell "£ ((aUII!~ A11M[110 ·z UOlJliS A11W "l :ua.kiiiV  




Notre Dame basketball now seen in footlights 
by Fred Herbst Staff Reporter 

This year, for the first time, Notre Dame is enjoying the nation­al exposure afforded a school having a majority of its basketball games nationally televised. 
With the National Broadcasting Company televising four Notre Dame games nationally and the Spoelstra Sports NetWor}.l. carrying sixteen games, the Irish wl.H, appear on national television twenty tqnes this season. This is not includibg any NCAA tournament games that Notre Dame may participate in. 
The television exposure, far more than any other university in the nation receives, is viewed favorably by Irish Head Coach Richard "Digger" Phelps. "I feel that the television coverage we're getting is excellent," he said. "The more exposure that college basketball gets, the better for all of us." 
Fr. Edmund Joyce, vice presi­dent of the University and in charge of athletics, ·is also pleased with the coverage provided by the two networks. "I know that our alumni and friends are delighted at being able to watch the team,'' he said. "It's important that the alumni across the country have the opportunity to see the team play." 
Despite the extensive coverage 

given he basketball team, little 
money made through it. "We 
don't look upon television revenue 
as being significant," Joyce said. 
"It's not very important financial­
ly" 
While no exact figures are 

available, Joyce stated that the 
University receives approximatey 
$2,000 a game from the Spoelstra 
Network. The amount received 
form NBC a game is undetermined. 
This to $250,000 received for every Notre Dame football game appearing on national television. 
The added exposure of the basketball team and the success of the team under Phelps will have no bearing on alumni contributions for the current year, according to Joyce. "There is absolutely no relationship between athletic suc­cess and alumni donations," Joyce said. "In fact, some of our best years for alumni donations were when Joe Kucharich was football coach here and we had some of our worst teams." 
Unlike football, television ap­pearances for college basketball teams are not regulated by the NCAA. Instead, a network simply buvs the rights to a particular game from the home school. 

The increased television expo­sure seems to have had little affect on the team itself. ''Television doesn't affect the way we play," Phelps said. "We go out and play hard in every game, whether it's on televison or not." 
Phelps states that it's still im­possible to tell if the national exposure will help recruiting. However he notes that he has ten underclassmen on the team and that even the nationwide publicity may not be enough to lure a high school player to Notre Dame, knowing that he probably won't be able to play immediately. 
The head coach did note that the 
team's increased popularity, due to 
the increased exposure and the 
111( 
~uttn's (astlt 
WRCOMES 

1\nigi.Jts 
NEW CONCEPf In unisex hairstyling for Men and Ms., located on our lower level. SIP COFFEE by the fireplace in a relaxed atmosphere. COMPlETE PRIVACY in our individual styling units. FAST SERVICE for carefree cuts and blow styies. WE FEATURE RK products. 
MANICURES for men $4 PRECISION CUTS HAIRCUTS $4 BLOW STYLING PERMANENT WAVING bv NATURAL MAN $25 $1.00 OFF A PRECISION CUT WITH BLOW ~·-....., 
STYLING tn~R ieaitltl~t A~~, 
54533 TERRACE LANE Tues., Wed., Sat. 8:30 -5:30, Thurs. & Fri. 8:30 -8:30 PHONE 
----~~~~~~~~---llllllli 
team's ruggd schedule, will go a work hs met with surprising suc­long way toward the Irish's goal of cess is expected to once again carry a NCAA Tournament bid. Irish basketball next season. 
It is expected that Notre Dame "I'm amazed that Spoelstra has will continue to be put on national made a success of this," Joyce. "I television frequently in the future. think they've had enough success Besides NBC, the Spoelstra Net-to continue. I expecdt them to." 
SPEND YOUR FRIDAY 








NIGHTAT THE MARDI GRAS& NORTH QUAD PARTY 
It's 50's Night by WSND at Mardi Gras with plenty of MONEY to be won!!!!! 
'FLIGHT'' from Chicago will be featured at the North Quad Party. So come and dance the night away MARDI GRAS 6-2:00 A.M. NORTH QUAD PARTY 9-1 :00 A.M. 
ADMISSION FREE TO NORTH QUAD RESIDENTS; OTHERS, $1.00 ... 
Student Union to purchase new printing press 
by Peter O'Brien deal have not been finalized. Two equipment they sell. Birsic also set up for smaller financial matters. ators from a New York company. Staff Reporter members of the ad-hoc committee, mentioned that this company has reported Monday. The company profits greatly from 
Birsic and John Hargrave, with done some free work for Student the transaction, while Student Un­Besides posters, the freshmenAndy Bury, director of Campus Union in the past. He does not ion only makes a 10-12 percentorientation booklet, and the Bus­Press, will discus details with the anticipte any difficulty in arriving
An ad-hoc committee of Student profit. Birsic felt it would be an
iness Review, the new machineA. B. Dick company in a few days. at a feasible method of paying for
Union decided to purchase an excellent idea to begin purchasing
could print "just about anything,"
the equipment. Indications are
$8,000 piece of printing equipment The exact financing plan should be these refrigerators which would
Birsic said. It could also print the
that "we will have satisfactory
in an attempt to cut production known by Monday or Tuesday. cost between $30-40,000, because
Sophomore Literary Festival broch 
costs to provide a quicker, more Birsic stated the following terms as terms,'' Birsic said. Student Union is now working
ure which is usually printed by Ave 
efficient Campus Press. the best possible transaction. After the deal has been estab­$7,000 below their budget allot­
Maria Press. 
ldeally, Student Union will make lished, Bro. Benesh and Bro. Just, ment of $50,000.
This sum represents a sixth of The Student Union director
the entire Student Union budget for a 20-25 percent down payment; a vice president of Student Affairs, that the next Committee Casey
added within few-membersthree to five year lease will be set must approve it. Birsic anticipates1975-76. Tom Birsic, Student weeks the newly formed ad-hoc tlolan and Patty Sheehan areup "continuously their approval.
Union director, said the machine with a rolling commitee will make a decision presently working on this matter,option" to buy the equipment every
would provide a ''valuable service "If things don't work out, this dealing with another possible pur-and will bring it before the
six months, Birsic explained. -com­
to both Student Union and Student year's committee will leave recom­chase, refrigerators. Student Union mittee in two or three weeks, BirsicHowever, the $8,000 could be paid
Government.'' mendation to next year's commit­presently sub-leases 450 refriger-explained.
in full this year if the present 
tee," Birsic noted. All the inform­
Birsic, said that the Union set up surplus in Student Union exists 

ation collected by this year's com­
this ad-hoc committee to deal with financial matters of "extreme im­until the end of the year, Birsic 
mittee will not be lost next year, he 
r-------------------------,
said.
portance." noted. Student Union will buy the !Jirsic spoke highly of the people Birsic noted that two of the top 


i RAR~!!OR i
machine from the A. B. Djck at A. B. Dick. He noted that they financial positions in next year's company but the exact terms of the provide "great servicing" of all student government will be filled by two people who are presently uwE CAN HANDLE THE TOUGH ONES" II
I 

committee members. They are 
I SINCE 1922 I
In Angolan conflict Ken Ricci, who will be one of the two head comptrollers, and Eric 
1 289-5850 I
Ryan, who is presently training to
Soviet, Cuban aid rises I I
be Student Body treasurer next year.
(AP)--A top offical of a western­sary of revolt against Portuese rule 
I 
I

backed movement in Angola said with a military parade. The $8,000 piece of machinery 
I I
Thursday that a fleet of Soviet Sangumba, the UNITA foreign does "everything associated with ships believed carrying weapons minister, told the news conference the press,'' Birsic stated. Presently J I and Cubans troops to aid the in Lusaka there was heavy fighting Campus Press requires three days I I communist-supported Popular between MPLA forces and UNITA for job completion. With the new I I
.CLEANING • RECORING

Movement--MPLA--has been troops at Cela in central Angola. machine that job could be com­sighted 30 miles off the Angolan • Sangumba appealed to the U.S. pleted in less than a day, he I • GAS TANK REPArRlNG I port of Lobito. Heavy fighting also government to use its diplomatic explained. 1 "TOUGH GUY" Weldinq -Heaters I 
was reported in central, southern pressure on the Soviet Union to pull and eastern Angola. out Moscow-backed troops from "The actual process of the new I Fleet Truck Contracts Welcome 
I· 

machine is "much more efficient" 
I

There was no independent veri­Angola. than the one presently used. It SAME DAY SERVICE I 
The MPLA controls most of
fication of the claim of Societ ships would make a printing plate, which
northern Angola, formerly held by I I
off angola, made by Jorge San­is essential to the printing opera­
the National Front. The Soviet I 1136 MISHAWAKA I
gumba, the foreign minister of the tion, in "one-sixth or one-seventh
news agency Tass in a dispatch I I
Union for the Total Indepence of of the time it now takes, Birsic
from Luanda said the FNLA nownews
Angola--UNITA--at a con­continued. I"IF YOU HAVE A ROUGH TRIP AHEAD :
holds only a narrow trip of territoryference in Lusaka, Zambia. His along the frontier with Zaire. A The new machine-also saves
faction, which is allied with the I OF YOU, CHECK OUT THE I
spokesman for the FNLA in Kin­several other steps in the printingnational Front--FNLA--holds Lob­shasa, Zaire, called for interna­process and would reduce laborito. 
tional help for 24,000 refugees from cost resulting in a 76 percent 


L----~--~1~~~~~~~~-~-~--J
In Washington, U.S. intelligence its former territory. savings per job, the Observer sources said the Cuban troup airlift to Angola has been halted for more 
WE'VE GOT IT ALL !!! 
then two weeks and six Cuban •****************************• 
ships were sighted en route to * * Angola. Analysts were not certain 
i A College degree ! 
whether the airlift had finally 
ALL OF YOUR 
ended or was only temporarily suspended by they left open the 
! and no plans? * 
possibility there might be Cuban 

MUSIC NEEDS

troops aboard the ships. Soviet transport flights had been 



! Become a 
flying Cuban troops to Angola :* CLASSICAL • BLUES almost daily until Jan. 21. the sources said. Cuban troop strength 
in Angola has been estimated as i Lawyer's Assistant * BLUEGRASS • ROCK 
high as 11,000. In other developments: --Senate Majority Leader Mike 
! and put your * SOUL * JAZZ 
Mansfield criticiazed Secretary of State Henry A. Kissinger for CUTOUTS "pointing the finger" at Congress 

i education to work.
because it voted to cut off funds for covert aid to anti-Soviet factions in 
* If you will soon be receiving your degree and Angola.--In Lisbon, West German * entering a job market which has not yet met 
Foreign Minister Hans-Dietrich 
* your high hopes. . . . Here's your invitation to PLUS, TOP LINES OF:
Genscher told a news conference at 
* another opportunity: The new world of the legal
the end of an official visit that Bonn 
* assistant. You can be. trained to be a skilled 
was "greatly concerned" over 
* member of a top legal team with the potential * 
Soviet and Cuban intervention in 
11c PIPES

* for an outstanding and active career. * * LEATHERGOODS
Angola. He said West Germany did not want what he called neo­* Specialize in Corporations, Employee Benefits, * colonialism to substitute for colon­* Estates, Trusts and Wills, Litigation, or Real ** *CLOTHES • POSTERS 
ialism in Africa. 
* Estate and Mortgages. * 
In the Angolan capital of Luanda, British correspondents said the * Ffr a free brochure about this career opportunity *
* 

MPLA marked the 15th anniver-* call 516/294-8700, Ext. 7604-5, or simply mail * WHERE ELSE CAN YOU GET:* the coupon below. .* 
* -------------------------* 6.98 LP'S FOR ONLY 4.99!
Enrollment fee 

** Name Phone___________ * 
ORdue by Feb. 13 * Address ___________ __ ___ __ _____ ___ *
* * 7.98 TAPES FOR ONLY 6.29! 
All undergraduate students in­: State ______ Zip___ : tending to return for the fall 1976 
AND THESE ARE EVERYDAY PRICES I IIIII
...... 

semester will have to pay a SSO * DAY *
* 0 Summer 1976 0 Fall 1976 :
advance enrollment registration 
deposit during the week of Feb. * June 7-Aug. 27 Sept. 27-Dec. 17 * 9-13. 
: EVENING :
The fee must be made in person 

* 0 Spring 1976 0 Fall 1976 * 
with an ID at the Student Accounts 

RECORDS 

Office, Room 102 of the Admini­* Mar. 16-Sept. 2 Sept. 14-Mar. 5, 1977 * stration Building. The office is 
open everyday from 9-11:30 a.m. *** Adelph•1 :** 255·0266 
Mail to:
and from 1:30-4 p.m. Ruth Goldsmith Scholarship students must also * Lawyer's Assistant Program * 9198 COLLEGE SQUARE 
pre-register at this time. A late fee * ADELPHI UNIVERSITY University College * will be charged if this advance * IN COOPERATION WITH Division of Special Programs * ACROSS FROM TOWN & COUNTRY MALL
* THE NATIONAL CENTER Adelphi University
enrollment deposit is not paid ~xt 
* FOR PARALEGAL TRAINING Garden Citv. N.Y. 11530 ;t * 
week. 
•****************************• 



I I 
~ 





Figures released on quake victims 
Guatemala City, Guatemala 
AP -The estimate of casualties in Guatemala's devastating earthquake was increased by of­ficials Thursday to 3,000 dead and about 15,000 injured. 
Col. Guillermo Echeverria Vie­lams, duty coordinator at a special emergency committee set up by the Defense Ministry, reported the new figures Thursday night and said that more than 10,000 persons were left homeless. 
Echeverria said the figures might increase further as com­
munications  were  improved  and  
more  reports  came  in  from  the  
countryside.  

The committee coordinator said a preliminary survey earlier in the day showed three out of four 
Communists abstain 

communities in this mountainous agricultural nation of six million people suffered damage in the ,earthquake that struck Wednes­
day. 
He said approxiamately half the buildings in Guatemala City, which has a population of 11/1million, were damaged to some degree. 
In the capital, firemen buried scores of earthquake victims in a mass grave outside a hospital morgue. At the city cemetary, survivors lined up bearing coffins of relatives and friends. Many coffin makers ran out of wood. 
What reports are available from the interior told of widespread devastation from the quake, which struck along a 2,000-mile strip of Central America and Mexico, with the main force in Guatemala. 
Reports from Antigua, the 16th century capital 15 miles away, indicated serious damage. The city was still isolated. Food prices skyroc'ked as supplies dwindled. Autho • .._:.~s tried to head off mass statvation. 
President Kjell Eugenio Laugerud ordered immediate dis­tribution of food and medicine coming in on relief flights. Massive U.S. disaster relief assis­tance was sent to Guatemala Thursday 
The U.S. relief supplies, pro­vided by the Agency for Interna­tional Development, included a 100-bed hospital being airlifted from Ft. Sill, Okla. 
In Washington, an interagency 
Italian Christian Democrats win 
ROME--AP--Premier-designate AI­da Moro had a clear road Thursday to form a new government after the Socialist. Social, Social Democratic and Republican parties all voted to support a minority Christian Demo­cratic administration at least by abstaining on parliamentary con-
NTE's scheduled for Feb. 21 at ND 
Notre Dame will be a site of the National Teacher Examinations on Feb. 21. Scores from the examin­ations are used by many states for certification of teachers, by school systems for selection, tenure status and identification · of leadership qualities and by many colleges as part of their graduation require­ments. 
More than 100,000 candidates took the examinations last year at major testing centers located ac­ross the country. Administered by Educational Testing Service of Princeton, N.J., they are designed to measure knowledge gained from professional and general education and in 27 subject-matter fields. 
Registration forms and addit­ional· information may be outlined from Dr. Peter P. Grande, assistant dean of the Freshman Year of Studies at Notre Dame, or from Educational Testing Service, Box 911, Princeton 08540. 


A New Profession 
for 

College Graduates! 
''Development Specialist'' 
Summer Program: June 14-September 3,1976 Fall Program: September 27-December 17,1976 
If you are interested in applying the knowledge you 
have acquired in your four years of college to community 
service ... consider a career in development. 
Adelphi is the first university to provide advanced 
training to college graduates for a career in this steadily 
growing field. 

A career in development offers you multiple oppor­
tunities to use your diverse talents and knowledge in a 
professional capacity and gives you the opportunity to 
make a contribution to your community in association 
with top civic, cultural and industrial leaders. 
For a free brochure about this career opportunity 
mail the coupon below. 

.uE---------------------------~NL-_______________ 
~--------------------------------------------­
cnY_____________________nAn~__________z..
~------­
0 SUIIIIIEJI1flW 0 FAU. 1flW 

IN COOPERATION WITH THE NATIONAL CENTER FOR DEVELOPMENT 
11\AIN\NG


Adelphi
~DELPHI UNIVERSITY Cp3 2 
··-·~ I< • 
Mail to: Mrs. Laurel Isaacs Development Specialist Program University College Divsion of Special Programs Adelphi University Garden City, N.Y. 11530 

task force was set up at the State Rescue workers covered their Department and a disaster survey noses with masks against the smell team sent to Guatemala City from of death. Survivors seeking loved its Panama base to make assess­ones covered their faces with ments about the sort of help hankerchiefs. needed most. In San Lucas village, 20 miles 
So far, AID officials said, more away, 100 women lined up for meat than $500,000 in relief services and from a cow killed in the quake. provisions have been sent to Guate­Hungry dogs fought to lick the mala. blood. One women who arrived too 
In Guatemala City, corpses in the late sobbed: "Everything is closed streets draped with dusty sheets of and I don't even have a piece of plastic. bread for my children." 

1 Mile North of NOTRE DAME on U.S. 31 No7th Just South of NORTH VILLAGE MALL • (219) 2.'l7-1522 

HElD OVER! UZA 7th WEEK GENE MINNELU BURT HACXMAN ~ REYNOlDS  IUJ(](y17:00LADV 9 .200 SORRY 0 NO PASSES  I  

a boy and his dog 

t-«:JW! an R rated, rather kinky tale of survival 
NO ONE ADMITTED AFTER FEATURE STARTS-7:30-9:45 

Friday, February 6, 1976 
the observer 11 




0-C housing situations examined 
(Continued from page 1) five students can live in the same facility for $275 a month excluding utilities. Farmer feels that the rent reduction will cause units to fill quickly so he urges anyone inter­ested in renting to contact him soon. Leases run for nine months, and new deadbolt locks are being 
To fill social void 
installed on apartment doors. In addition, for security,Farmer says a large dog is walked nightly, and balcony lights left on over holidays. He stated that previous experience with security guards proved futile. 
For students seeking housing in a not solely-student complex, Tur­tie Creek will be offering furnished studios for $161 per month. All 
1 IA/acky IAII•n•er IA/eekend 1 p'anned co~;;:.~a~~:S~:ka~~ f~:n~~~~e:~?
WIJ 1 WIJ j 11 WIJ I f1 move qutckly. Last year all rest-
by Karl Blette 
Staff Reporter 

To fill the void which many students experience between Mardi Gras and An Toastal Week­end, the Notre Dame and St. Mary's Social Commissions will sponsor the second annual "Wacky Winter Weekend" on Fri. and Sat. Feb. 20 and 21. 
The weekend will start Friday night with what Notre Name Social Commissioner Kathy Smouse re­ferred to as a "disco dance" in Stepan Center. Planning the dance is largely the responsibility of the St. Mary's Social Commission, and admission is free for all students. 
Music for the dance will be recorded rather than live, in order to provide a more informal atmos­phere, Smouse said. 
An Armory dance which was originally planned for that weekend has been cancelled due to state­wide Army maneuvers scheduled for that time. 
Outdoor activities will take place on Saturday in the general area of Holy Cross Hall and St. Mary's Lake. 
Tentatively scheduled are ice skating, tobogganing, a tug-of-war, 
Business Admin. sports program 
by Barbra Langhenry Staff Reporter 

The College of Business Admin­istration is being "spotlighted" this week and next as part of the program to aid freshmen with their transition into sophomore year. 
Copies of information booklets about the college, a list of suggest­ed classes to visit and literature on careers in business administration are available in the Freshman 
Learning  Resource  Center  this  
week.  
Vincent  Raymond,  associate  

Dean of the College of Business Administration, will present a talk and disucssion entitled, "Informa­tion for Freshman who are Con­templating Entering the College of Bsuiness Administration," Feb. 9. at 6:30 p.m. and again at 8 p.m. This will be held in Room 122 of the Hayes-Healy Building. 
During the week of Feb. 9-13, there will be visits to classes in the college of Business Administration. 
A list of classes and a sche~1.1Ie will be in the Freshman Laarning Resource Center. ' 
Dr. Emil. T. Hofman, dean of the Freshman Year of Studies, said the programs are beneficial, "especial­ly for those who are undecided and want to learn about the possibili­ties." 

-stARTS TODAY­ROBERT REDFORD FAYE DUNAWAY CLIFF ROBERTSON 
MAX VON SYDOW 
3 
DAYS OF 11tECONDOR 
~1!{31 -·:=~~~~c:e· 
PHONE 288-8488 FOR TIMES 
WANTED 
Willted : 1 ND or SMC art student to do cartooning, <Duple hours per 'M!ek, $$, call Rick at 233-1115 between 4-7 p.m. 
Needed: 110lunteer-s for gym instruction and tutoring one hour a 'M!ek for Parish Partners. If inter-ested, call 8042. 
W111ted: 110lunteer-s for the Milton Shapp tor R-esident Comm. If inter-ested, call Tom at 288-0088. 
Will do anything (almost) for Marquette tix. call Dorothy, 277-1838. 
W111ted: ride to Toledo this 'M!ekend. Call Alggy, 6661. 
Desperately need Mcrquette tickets. Call Sheila, 8135. 
' 
Need 11M:> Mcrquette tickets . Mary 
4-5445. 
Need 1 Davidson 111d W. Va. ticket. Call Kevin, 283-1724. 
Desperately need a ride to Chicago this 'M!ekend. C111leave anytime alter-A-iday noon. Call Jim at 3593 or 3610. 
I am sid< at heart because I do not have 4 Marquette tix. Call MillfY, 6680. 
Need 2 Marquette student tix. AI, 3388, 1715. 
W111ted: 11M:> G.A. Mcrquette tix. Call 6804. 
I need GA and student tickets for Marquette. Give me a break. Please call Pat, 1654. 

Need 4 GA W.Va. tickets. call Maggie, 5408. 
Need M<rquette tlx. 3 GA or 2 111d student. 1364. 
Rrents need 2 Davidson tix. can o,ug, 3172, 
W111ted: tickets for M<rquette game or 111y other-Saturday game. can Tom, 1795. 
other units are unfurnished and :only, on a nine month rental basis, rent for $167 for one bedroom early application to Turtle Creek is apartments, $200 for two student, advisable. two bedroom-one bath units and Joe Gatto owns seven houses $235 for three student, two bed-that will be available next school room-one and one half bath town-year. His five-student residences houses. No utilities except water for S235 per month, with six-.student are included. houses going for $300. Utilities are 
Because manager Betty Lowery not included in this price, and a sets aside appoximately 20 units nine and one half month lease is required beginning next year to 
' dences were gone by the end of 
a pie-eating contest, a sack race inated last year as a joint effort by 
and a dog sled race, with consent-the Notre Dame and St. Mary's 
ing students taking the place of the Social Commissions but was some­
dogs. what of a failure because of warm 
Prizes will be awarded to the and rainy weather. 
winners, and Chairman John Planners this year are more 
Rooney encouraged halls to form optimistic and hope the weekend 
teams. will be a time when students can 
Rooney also hinted a ''big enjoy the South Bend snow. 
event" is being scheduled for Anyone interested in helping the 
Saturday night, but failed to elab-planners can contact Cori Ching at 
orate because plans have not yet 1298 or Nancy Budds at 1333 at 
been finalized. Notre Dame, or Molly McKenna at 
Wacky Winter Weekend orig-4600 at St. Mary's. 

¥••································· 
: COLLEGE EDUCATION : * * 
~ corner of Logan and Jefferson ~ * * 
: FINEST : : 24 HOUR RESTAURANT : : IN MICHIANA : 
: * catering to * : : ND-SMC LATE NIGHT NEEDS : 
* * 
: FEATURING COLLEGIATE SPECIAL · : * "JACK OMELET" * 
* * 
* *
* Daily Lunch Special Hamburgers * * *
* * 
: BREAKFAST SERVED ANYTIME: * * 
*••································· 
February. 
Another private landlord, Del­phine Cooper, rents three houses and offers rooms to students in her home_. At present, her three bedroom residences rent for S75 and $80 per month per student. The four bedroom house is priced at $62.50 per person. Utilities are Included in the rent for all of her 
houses. 

Cooper requires no lease but maintains a gentlemen's agree­ment with her tenants. "I rent homes in very good condition and 

Classified Ads 
Will pay big rroney for Marquette tickets, call Mike, 8720. 
Applicants over 21 for part-time derking, etc. Apply 11 :00-6:00 p.m. Party Shoppes of South Bend, Office 913 Clover St. 
Need ride to Penn. State 'M!ekend of Feb. 
13. Call Jan, 6859. 
W111ted: Ride to Indianapolis or Ter-re Haute this 'M!ekend. Will share gas and driving. Call Tom at 3341. 
FOR SALE 

For Sale: O:llomite ski boots, size 9. Used one season. Call 1924. 
For Sale: NO letter-jacket, cheap. call 1922. 
For Sale: Uni110x Sectric Guitar. Nice sound 111d good action. Call Bob at 1487. 
For Sale: Kawasaki G-5 100 a:. EKcellent condition. Good formmrnuting. 120 mpg. Call 1688. 
SKIS; 195 an Hart Free Styles; like new, used twic:e. Leave name with Chris Srnth at Observer if interested. 
For Sale: 8 GA Mcrquette tickets, best offers. Greg, Jim, 1578. 
FOR RENT 

Available for Sept. Tl.wtoseven bedroom houses. Co!1llletely furnished. call Mrs. Hurrbarger-, 234-9364. 
LOST& FOUND 

Lost: Purple Midi Coat. Lost at Mardi Gras A-iday. Reward, no questions asked. Call Marl111ne 8060. 
Found: Silver necklace in LeMans lobby. Call Camille, 4773. 
NOTICES 

IBM Selectric II typing. Manuscripts, disser-tation. Elcperienced. 289-5193. 
MORRISSEY  LOAN  $20-$150.  1-day  
wait.  1  pen:ent  Int.  LaFortune,  M-F,  
11:15-12:15.  

Term Paper-Thesis-Letter--A Uttleor a Lot -We C111 Help. 
A Col1lJiete Typing Service 
207 Dixie way North 
Soll)h Bend, lndi111a 
277-2922 

Need a tune-up? You buy the parts, 1wiII install plugs, points, CDrldenser-111d set timing tor $8. Call Bob, 8610. 
Aa:urate, fast typing. Mrs. O>noho, 232-0746. 
Book Store -Old Books 111d A-ints. Hours, Wednesday, Saturday, Sunday 9-7 or ch111ce. Ralph Casperson, 1303 Bud1111111 Road, Niles. 
PERSONALS 

Matn, H21bd Lak, Drpc 
p.s. ysw. 

B. B. Grzie mille. And }1)U thought I didn't 
know ltaliill. T.C. 
Unda Slaughter's birthday is soon (next 'M!ek). We need practical joke sugges­t_ions. Call 1248. 
Bill, When can we hiM! our talk? My late nights get awfully lonely! 
Maura, Happy belated 21st! 
MOCK STOCK MARKET -Feb. 2 tllnl Feb. 27. Old Business Building, 10 a.m-3 
p.m Mon. ttvu Ri. Win $100, $50, $25. Sponsored by N.D. Rnance Club. 
Lonely in Angers, SUNDEF is no FUN­DEF, craving mail <D11lJ111ionship. Jen. nifer-Collins & Giselle Urruti. SUNDEF, B. P. 858, 49005 Angers Cedex, A-111ce. 
Happy Birthday to Mom and the Kid. LDve from Dad, the Uttle One, and Ado. 
Pleasel Whoever "lifted" mv badcpllck .t mv party at least relum the notesI Terry G., 289-8043. 
expect them back that way," ~-le 
states. Most students renting t s 
way put down deposits by m '­
Augu_st, and she suggests tl s 
practtce to assure a house '1 
September. 
Of the 23 houses and apartme1 s 
owned byRay Milliken, only sev• n 
are now available for rent next 
school year, though more will be 
ready later. Because they go 
quickly, he should be contacted 
immediately by interested stu­
dents. 
Milliken's units range from one to five bedrooms and rent for from $163 to $350 per month depending on location, furnishing, size and 
condition. Utilities are generally included in price of the apartments, but not the houses. Milliken offers nine month leases and secures his residences with deadbolt locks. 
Thus off-campus rents seem to be holding steady for next school year and at this time availability is good. Fr. John Mulcahy, director of student residence and Off-Cam­pus Housing Office are eager to help all students with questions, 


David Burgess, UNICEF Senior Officer speaking on \\/Or1d development and poverty. 8 p.m., Sun. Feb. 8, Galbin Aud. Sponsored by Hunger-Coalition and SMC <:arrpus Ministry. 
Congmulations, Toml llle -ro is out. 
Happy Birthday Joil1 Therese [)wyer! Happy Birthday to Kathy Rink! 
Happy Birthday to the Party Gtr1 and farrous secrelillfY of the A-. Sorin Looch Club. (KFC). 
There once was a laddie named Tom. Who muld not find a date for the A-om He searched the whole town, But they all turned him down, So he ended up taking his Mom! 
From Dlsaster­BoxQ Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
Mary c.~ Thinking of you. 
Flash 
Doug A.: . What the hell Is going on1. The Toilet Man 
Dear Kathleen,,shlela, Karen, Joan, 
and Usa, . The time Is coming for all secrets to be revealed. Prepare now, keep Yf)ur ears close to the ground. 
Yours in immorality, Uncle Charlie. 



12 the observer Friday, February &, 197& 


Irish open homestand with Davidson 
by Fred Herbst 

Notre Dame will open a four-game homestand tomorrow afternoon as the Davidson Wildcats invade the ACC. 
Davidson enters their game with the Irish with a 5-15 slate and is coming off a 75-62 loss to Appala­chian State that eliminated them from any hope of a first division finish in the Southern Conference. 
Freshman guard John Gerdy leads the Wildcats in scoring, hitting for 16.8 points per game. Along with Gerdy in the starting lineup are two other freshmen, Jim Rice at forward and 7'2" Tom Dore at center. Seniors Eppa Rixey and Jay Powell round out the starting lineup at forard and guard respec­tively. Freshmen Pat Hickert and Tom Jorgensen are Davidson's top reserves. 
*Observer 




Sports 
ND icers to play Pioneers 
By Tom K,ruczek 

The Notre Dame hockey team this weekend travels to the beauti­ful country of Colorado for a two game series against Denver. The Pioneers are 8-14 in the Western Collegiate Hockey Association and are tied foreighthplace with North Dakota. The Irish are 10-10-2 in the league and tied for fifth with last week's opponent Colorado Col­lege. 
This weekend will be a must series for both squads. The Irish are needing a big push so they can move into the coveted top four spots in the league giving them a home ice advantage to open the play-offs. It will be very beneficial to the Irish to sweep the series, because the Pioneers will be one of the two easier teams left on the schedule. 
Easy, however has to be quali-

C:.'.J A. 
-
Rixey and Powell follow Gerdy in scoring for the Wildcats, scoring 
11.3 and 10.0 points per game respectively. Dore and Rice are the team's leading rebounders pulling down five a game. 
. , Davtdson s youth has. been ap­
paren~ thus far, as the Wtld~ats are suffertn~ thr.ough one ofthetr worst seasons m htstory. However, Head 
Coach Bo Brickels is pleased with the progress shown by his team. "We've shown definite signs of improvement over the last couple of weeks," he said. "We've lost some close ones and beat a pretty good Santa Barbara team. But it's not enough to show improvement and lose close games." 
The basketball program at Da­vidson has fallen upon hard times, last season compiling a 7-19 record. Prior to that, the Wildcats had not had a losing season since 1960, "Lefty" Driesell's first season as 
tied in that this weekend will be played in high-altitude Denver. The Irish will run 45 second shifts, instead of the usual minute and 15 second shifts, and will find out the difficulties of high-altitude athle­tics. 
Denver also must win both ends of the series because they are precariously close to being elimin­ated from the play-offs. North Dakota will be playing Minnesota­Duluth this weekend, and if Dakota wins twice, and Denver loses twice, the Pioneers chances of making the post-season tourney will be greatly reduced. 
The Pioneers are coming off two straight 5-2 defeats at the hands of league leading Michigan Tech. Coach Murry Armstrong of Denver reflects that the coming weekend will have great importance for both teams. "I don't think it's any secret that the Notre Dame series
-
•
rl 
~· 

'd h
Uavt son coac ·. . 
N?tre Dame ts ent~nng tomor­ro": s contest on the wmgs of one of thetr better performances of the season when they tro~nce~ LaS~lle 108-89 Wednesday mght tn Phtla­delphia. The Irish have won eight out of their last nine games, losing only to Maryland, and have a season's mark of 13-4. 
Brickels realizes that his Wild­cats are facing a hot team. "Notre Dame is a great basketball team," he said. "I don't know if anybody has a player who can really stop Adrian Dantley." 
Dantley, whose 41 points against LaSalle moved him within 660 points of Austin Carr's school· scoring record, is the nation's fifth-ranked scorer in the latest NCAA statistics averaging 29.1 points per game. Duck Williams follows Dantley in scoring, averag­ing 10.1 points per contest. 
The All-American forward also continues to lead the Irish in rebounding pulling down 9.4 car­oms per game. Toby Knight is the team's second leading rebounder grabbing 6.6 a game. 
Davidson has met the Irish only twice before, losing both contests. Last year the Irish beat the Wildcats 89-73 in Charlotte. 
Tomorrow's tilt will be televised on the Spoelstra Sports Network, and will be carried locally by Channel16, WNDU-TV. The game will also be broadcast on WNDU, WSND and WSBT radio. Tip-off is scheduled for 1 p.m. 
here this weekend is very crucial. We need to sweep this series to keep in the playoff picture. Notre Dame has been playing good hockey the past couple of weeks and they also need the wins." 
Denver will be relying on two freshmen for their major scoring punch. Doug Berry and Alex Belcourt have collected 13 points each since the Christmas break, 11 games back. Berry has tallied two goals and 11 assists in the span while Belcourt has managed three goals and ten assists since return­ing to the ice. Belcourt was sidelined for nine Pioneer games with an injury and has 20 points in the 17 contests he has played. Berry has 22 points in 26 games so far this season. 
In goal for the Pioneers will be Ernie Glanville who has a 4.3 goals against average. Glanville ran into problems last Saturday against Tech. In the warm-ups prior to the game, he was knocked cold by a shot taken by a teammate. He started the game, then injured his leg in a collision in the second period, recovered and finished the game with 33 saves. 
The Irish will be operating with the same squad from last weekend. 
Tim Byers is still troubled by a knee injury and will miss action again this weekend but is expected to be back for Michigan Tech next week. Len Moher and John Peterson will again split the goal­keeping chores. Peterson is com­ing off an excellent game against Colorado College, turning away 23 shots in the Irish 3-1 victory. 
Earlier in the year, the Irish and Denver split at the ACCwith Notre Dame winning the Friday game 5-2 on two goals each by Clark Hamil­ton and Kevin Nugent. On Saturday, goalie Jim Bales stopped 38 shots in the Pioneer 4-1 win. 
In other WCHA action this weekend, Michigan Tech takes on Michigan at Houghton, Michigan. The Wolverines are third in the conference. In addition second place Minnesota takes on fourth place Michigan State, and Colorado College faces last place Wisconsin. 
The ,games will be broadrast live 
.u,

....... ~ ,' ' 
·~-{· · · · 
-

Bruce Flowers will attempt to better his 14 point effort in the LaSalle game tomorrow against Davidson. [Photo by Chris Smith] 
US captures silver medals at XII Winter Olympic Games 
INNSBRUCK AP -The son of a Vermont farmer and a former waitress from Detroit stunnedthe winter sports' world with medal performances Thursday as they led the United States to a surprisingly strong showing on the second day of the XII Winter Olympics. 
Bill Koch, an unheralded 20-year old New Englander, and Sheila Young, a veteran who was just warming up for events later in the week, won silver medals for Uncle Sam while Franz Klammer, Aus­tria's national hero, won the pres­tigious men's downhill ski race Thursday. 
There were three gold medals 


ART PRINT SALE 
LAST DAY 

ANY THREE FOR 
$6 

OVER 300 PRINTS TO CHOOSE FROM 
LAFORTUNE LOUNGE 
***********************************~
* 
~

* 
~





! REGAL LANES ~ 
* * 
: is organizing : 
* * 
* * 

: * a St. Mary"s -Notre Dame : * $"mixed doubles league" this spring. ai We hope to make this a tradition : : 'for our ND-SMC friends. : 
* *
* *
* * 
: for further information :
! CALL 259-5209 : 
awarded Thursday and Russians won two of them-Sergei Savelyev in the 30-kilometer ski race and Galina Stepanskaya in the 1500­meter speed skating event. 
it was the Americans who provided the sensational perform­ances on the first full day of Olympic competition. There were the second-place finishes of Koch and Miss Young, there were three American skiers led by courageous Andy Mill placed in the top 13 in the men's downhill race and there was a couple from Colorado holding firmly onto third place after two­thirds of the competition in ice-dancing. 

over WSND-AM(640) Jive with
kevm Nuget will lead the Irish hockey team against Denver this John Vozzo reporting starting at 8 * 
weekend. [Photo by Tom Paulius] * 1121 W. 8th St. Mishawaka : 
p.m. MST. 
'··································· 








