

server 
-st. mary's college 
Thursday, January 22, 1976 

Inflation shrinks revenues 
) 

Mardi Gras running in red 
by Barb Langhenry Staff Reporter 

Stepan Center is taking form and the towers will soon have Las Vegas in their own back yard. But Las Vegas is a city of silver and Mardi Gras is presently in the red. Harry Spellman, Mardi Gras cha­irman, said yesterday, "Costs are a 
Admissions Director John T. Goldrick (photo by Tony Chifaril lot higher than last year and we are
How many women7 
$26, 7oo in debt.·· 
• "Everything has gone up," Spe-AdmJ.SSl•on poll·cyre"'l.e"•"edllman 
explained. Peggy Foran,

\" • ~ ' raftle chairman, added the cost of 

by Patrick Cole Staff Reporter 

EDITOR'S NOTE: This Is the first story In a three-part series Investi­gating the policies for the admis­sion of women and minorities Into undergraduate colleges and uni­versities. The first story will cover the admissions policies for women at Notre Dame. The second story considers the policies for admitting minorities to the University. The final article examines the policies for admitting both groups at unl· versltles and colleges similar to Notre Dame. 
Ifyour name is John T. Goldrick, director of admissions at Notre Dame, you now face a difficult task: selecting the most qualified wo­men applicants to the Freshman Class of 1976. 
Beginning in the fall of 1972, Notre Dame admitted its first group of women students. "Notre Dame was aware of the need for women," stated Sr. John Mir­iam Jones, assi~tant to the provost. 
Unification plan abandoned 
In the spring of 1971, executive committees of the Board of Trust­ees recommended a unification plan for Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. The plan called for a single student body of men and women, one faculty, one president, one administration and one board of trustees. 
However, the plan for unification 
was abandoned in favor of calling 
for the coeducation of Notre Dame. 
Why was this unification plan abandoned? 
Jones explained, "Many ques­tions arose. What were we to do with the property? What were we 
to do with the land? 
"If combined, Notre Dame, as the larger and more well-known institution, would dominate in the 
(continued on page 9) 

muslin for the booths has increased 42 percent over last year's price, which was a little less than $3000. Other supplies have also increa­
sed by not less than 5 percent to 10 Spellman went on to say therepercent over last year. 
are three sources of money for the 
Spellman indicated that the ma­Mardi Gras: the raffle, the carni­jor financial problem is that reve­val itself, including winnings from nues will most likely stay the same. gambling and admission ·charges, "People are not going to start and the concessions, which "do not 

La-w professor counters charges 
by Mary Mungovan School Code as saying, "grades Staff Reporter cannot be changed except on test questions which involve a question 
Yesterday's Observer article re­of judgement," Adelo said. porting claims of unfairnes by "Section 6.67 of the code actual· first-year law students received ly prohibits changes only in cases unfavorable response from many of administrative or clerical error," first-year students, according to he·continued. George Adelo, Student Bar Assoc­One student objected, "This iation representative. issue doesn't concern the rest of 
The article included complaints the University. It concerns only the of unfair treatment in the Tort Law Iirst-year class and the law course taught by Prof. Charles E. school." 
Rice. ''This was a problem best left up 
According to the article, "52 D's to administrative processis in the and F's given in the course, Tort Law School," Adelo agreed. Law, comprise over one-third of the "I disagree that it's nobody's 149 students involved, and were business but the Law School's," given on the basis of one final another student reacted. "I don't exam.'' Most criticism centered on see any reason it shouldn't have the construction and grading of this been public." exam. Still another student was largeli 
Rice commented, "The criti­indifferent. "By and large 'I can't cisms that were printed were not say most first-year students were well-founded as I have fully ex­against the issue being publiciz­plained to the entire first-year class ed" he remarked. some time ago." "I disagree that the test was 
''The article was inaccurate and unfair," Sandy Bisignano stated. unfair," Adelo stated. It inaccur­"I went to every class and to two ately quoted the Hoynes Law review sessions and Prof. Rice in 
Delivered by Muskie 
•

Demos givetheir state of UDlOD 
WASHINGTON (AP) · Sen. Edmund S. Muskie, speaking for the Democratic party Wednesday night. said President Ford's plans for the economy would mean fewer jobs, higher prices and ever-ris­inJ;C budget deficits. 
Avoiding any direct reference to politicaf consid­erations in the election-year budget process, the Maine Democrat blasted what he said was the "inept. often panicky mismanagement" of the economy by Ford and former President Richard Nixon. 
"The President's budget is designed to keep unemployment over 7 per cent and more for another year and to keep seven million Americans unem­ployed at this time a year from now," Muskie said. 
No new jobs 

He said Ford's budget offers no new jobs and proposes cutbacks in the limited emergency jobs program Congress has enacted. 
Muskie included no specific detailed proposals in his speech, nor did he give dollar figures to show how much his general proposals would cost. 
His response to President Ford's Monday night State of the Union Address was televised by all three networks. unprecedented coverage for such a speech 
Muskie said, "We can again have confidence that government can restore economic health to our nation, put people back to work -get our factories open again . and stop the intlation that robs our elderly and poor and deprives everyone of us of our hard earned dollars." 
He said the key to prosperity is to put people back to work and said Ford intends to veto a jobs program pending in Congress which is designed to provide short-term public works and financial assistance to communities with high unemployment rates. 
Creation of jobs 
Muskie said that plan, suported by many Democrats, would create 300,000 jobs this year alone. Those should be in addition to jobs Congress could create in private industry "by additional tgax cuts without increasing present spending levels,'' 
he said.  
He  did . not  spell  out  how  this  might  be  
accomplished.  
Ford has  proposed  tax credits  for  business  to  

encourage the creation of new jobs, especially in areas of high unemployment. 
Muskie s.aid Congress could "avoid discour: aging private sector employment rejecting the President's proposals to increase payroll taxes." Ford has called for increase a three-tenths of one per cent boost in the Social Security payroll tax to put the Social Security program on a sound financial base. 
Muskie, chairman of the Senate Budget Commit­tee, said the two budgets which Ford has proposed ­for 1976 and 1977 -have included more than $40 billion for unemployment compensation and jobless benefits alone. He said the cost of unemployment to the government also includes $14 billion paid out in interest on the extra national debt. 
He said those costs have been a prime ingregient in budget deficits and a main cause of inflation. Ford's proposed budget deficit for 1977 is $43 billion. the estimated 1976 deficit is a record $76 billion. • (continued on page 4) 
no way misled students on the fiddiculty of the test.'' 
"Personally I feel he did more than all my other profs in helping review for the exam," she added. "I think people just couldn't adapt to the heavy workload they're encountering in law school." 
One student complained, "The fact taht the majority of the class chose not to comment when inter­viewed was not printed." 
money, but are a service," Spell­man said. 
"The raftle tickets are the main source of money and if the raffle falls we're sunk," he added. · 
Foran added, "It doesn't look like we're going to break even with the raftle, though. About 600 tickets must be sold before we start making money and, as of now, it looks poor." 
"We're not here to just break even, but to make a lot of money,'' Spellman explained. "The carnival will do all right and is going to hold its own in covering its costs,'' he said, ''but the overall profit is touch-and-go now and the raffle tickets will make it all." 
Spellman and Foran agreed, 
"The kids  (Mardi  Gras  workers)  
arc  going  nuts  with  our  tight  
(continued on page 3)  



Storage damage claims settled lor most students 
by Tom Morrison Staff Reporter 

Most students who filed claims against U.S. Van Lines of Indiana for their damaged or missing property from summer storage were paid in December for their losses. 
The students filed these claims, most of which amounted to less than $100, last fall through the Student Union. The moving com­pany's liability was 60 cents per pound, per article, according to the storage contract. 
U.S. Van Lines of Indiana and its insurance company were slow to settle these claims. For this reason, Ed Byrne, student body president, and Casey Nolan, direc­tor of the Student Union Services Commission, wrote a joint letter to the insurance company. This letter threatened possible legal action on behalf of the student claimants if no settlements were made. 
John J. Koelndorfer of Aetna Insurance of Indiana said an insur­ance adjustor was sent to the Student Union to process claims because of recommendations from the General Adjustment Bureau in South Bend. 
Koelndorfer commented the ex­
pense involved in filing a suit 
would not have been viable for 
Nolan's office. 
The Student Union Services Off­
ice has provided a storage service 
for several years. Last year the 
decision was made to hire an 
outside moving and storage com· 
pany. 
U.S. Van Lines of Indiana was chosen out of three companies that bid for the storage contract. 
"'·,1~n said the outside firm was hired to help make the job easier for his office. Summer storage had become a headache for Nolan's office. 
In past years it was possible for the Student Union to handle the storage themselves. Two factors contributed toward the choice of an independent storage company. 
The lack of space in the Field­house due to an expansion of the Art Department was a major prob­lem. Also the lack of cheap student labor during finals week when the property is picked up caused the switch to a commercial mover. 
U.S. Van Lines of Indiana hr.s handled storage for St. Mary's College and considered Notre Dame a similar storage task. Representatives estimated it would require four trucks to handle the bulk of summer storage from campus. 
According to Nolan, the company "grossly underestimated the vol­ume of storage space needed to handle the contract." Instead of the four trucks the company plan­ned on, 14 trucks were needed to haul all Notre Dame's summer storage. 
The confusion began with the low estimate. The moving company was forced to unload some of the goods at the warehouse where they became mixed together with the cargo from other halls. 
The handling and rehandling was unforseen and caused some breakage. Poor labelling and a number of lost pick-up receipts added to the confusion. 
Due to this trouble with summ~-r storage, Student Union must find a new way to store students' proper· ty for this summer. 
Thursday, January 22, 1976
2 the observer 

,_._-NewsBriefs ------....Arms talks beginning in Moscovv 
t:=========lntemational Cubansfly into Angola 
WASillNGTON--Viet aircraft have been flying Cuban troops into Angola at the rate of 200 a day for the past two weks, bringing the total Cuban troop commitment there to more than l0,500,U.S. officials said yesterday. 
I==========National Fire neared W. White House 
SAN CLEMENTE, Calif.--Brush fires fueled by howling winds and a nine-month drought approached the former Western White House from two directions Wednesday, destroying or damaging at least 25 expensive homes. No injuries were reported. One blaze burned within a half-mile of the luxurious seaside villa occupied by former President Richard Nixon before it was controlled by firemen. 
Grasspossession trial set 
MIDWEST CITYS, Okla.--Trial for Kenneth E. Paynf' lr., wide receiver for the Green Bay Packers, on a charge of marijuana possession was set yesterday for March 8. Policre in this Oklahoma City suburb said Payne, 25, gave a Midwest City address, was found sitting in a semi-conscious state in his parked car alte Monday. Police Chief James Cox said a small quantity of marijuana was confiscated. 
I============Local 
Lugar's in the running 
INDIANAPOLIS--Former Indianapolis Mayor Richard G. Lugar announced his candidacy for the Republican nomination for U.S. Senator this morning. 
Lugar has become the third major candidate for the nomination on the May 4 primary. Former Gov. Edgar D. Whitcomb and former Republican State Chairman Chales 0. Hendricks announced 
te last year. 

!Nosmokingpassed 
INDIANAPOLIS--A bill banning smoking in public buildings passed the Indiana House Wednedsay as many legislators puffed on pipes, cigars and cigarettes. 
The bill would prohibit smoking in any building owned, controlled or subsidized by a governmental entity. Offices and living quarters such as college dormitories, would be exempt and the state health commissioner could designate smoking areas in buildings 
Smoking also would be banned in buses and elevators. Violators would be guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to a fine of $10 to $100. 
Bicentennial Footnote 
Two hundred years ago today, the Continental Congress in Philadelphia approved George Washington's request to Massachu­setts, New Hampshire and Connecticut to raise one regiment each to help in the Revolutionary War invasion of Canada. 
.,_.._On Campus Today-­
3:30pm 4 pm 
4:30pm 7 pm 
10 pm 

---computer course, "ibm job oontrol language {jcl) and utilities," room 115, oomputer center. 
---seminar, "photochemistry of bile pigments" by dr. david j.w.barber, nd, .oonference room, radiation research building, sponsored by radiation lab. 
---nr-otc, change of command ceremony, ace oonoourse 
---meeting, oollege republican club, Iafortune 2d 
---film,"funny lady," o'laughlin auditorium, sponsored by social oommission, admission $1.25 
,..-TheObserver 
Night Editor: Tim 0'Reiley Ass't. Night Editor: Jim Stevens layout Staff: Nobody Day Editor: Eileen O'Grady Jim Commyn Copy Reader: Kathy Mills Editorials: Ken Girouard Sports: Bill Brink Typists: Sue Shellenbarger, Terri Harlan, Jody Zombie: Bob Steinmetz Photographer: Tony Chifari 

MOSCOW <AP) -Secretary of State Henry A. Kissinger and a hearty-looking Leonid I. Brezhnev sparred over the An­golan conflict Wednesday and sought a way out of the Soviet-
U.S. nuclear arms impasse. 

Brezhnev, looking fit in his first public appearance in a
month, was optimistic about a nuclear arms accord at opening 
of the Kremlin talks, but after 
a three-hour session, Kissinger sounded a more somber note. He said the two sides ought to ask themselves whether they would permit technical issues to stand in the way of an agree­ment that would lead to a sec­
ond strategic arms limitation treaty. "Failure will leave us both losers," he said in a serious 
speech at a luncheon given by Foreign Minister Andrei A. 
Gromyko. A second round of negotia­tions began as dusk settled over the snow-sprinkled capital.
Kissinger hoped to wrap up an agreement in principle by Fri­day. 
Sporting an electric-~lue suit • and four medals on his chest, • Brezhnev all but bounded into • the Council of Ministers meet-• ing room to get the talks under • way. He showed no sign of any • illness and seemed to enjoy ·• fencing with American journal-• ists. There have been uncon-• firmed reports that Brezhnev is • 
ailing. • Asked whether Angola was on • 
the agenda, Brezhnev shot • I pm un ay back: "I have no . questions •,yALlAN SPECIALTIES : : 
about Angola. Angola IS not my • ·• 
country." Kissinger had hoped to use the occassion of the arms nego­tiations to try to persuade Brezhnev to halt Soviet support to the Popular Movement, one of the rival Africa groups seek­ing control of the oil-and miner­
~;~ich former Portuguese colo­
'i~~i~~~~~v·:efe~~~~~~t~ot~~~ 
,, Jre than a mention indicated the Secretary of State was hav­ing little luck so rar in his An-
go~~eai~~~munist-backed fac­
-~ 
1 
a 
' 
t
I 
a 
' 
t 
t 
persist 

country, the United States I 
might seek "compensation i_n ~~ 
The Observer is published Monday through Friday and wtoekly during the summer session. eKcept during 1 exams and vacation periOds. The Observer •s published by the I students of the Univ. of Notre I Dame and St Mary's College. 1 Subscriptions may be purchased I tor 10 dollars per semester ( 18 dollars per year) from The Ob 1 server. BoK Q, Notre Dame, In diana. ~SS6. Second Class postage I 
paid. Notre Dame. IN ~556. I 
************************************~ 
: -J & s SHOES :I : FACTORY OUTLET :I
* :I 
: Carrying Nationally Advertised brands for! I : Men & Women at DISCOUNT PRICES. ! 
I

* :I:I
* *I 
:With this coupon NO & SMC STUD'=NTS
* *I
* 
WILL RECEIVE AN ADDITIONAL *1 : *I

* 
10% DISCOUNT ON ANY ITEM : 1


* *I
* * 
;PH: 277-0368 18057 South Bend Ave: I 
some other place or manner." In his exchange with journal­ists before the opening meeting, 
U.S. officials indicated this Brezhnev seemed optimistic in represented a warning that saying he expects to visit Washington might try to freezt; Washington soon to sign a pact Moscow out of future Middle with President Ford to limit of-East peace moves. fensive nuclear weapons.


r---------------=-'1 
t ' $164.95 CASH 't 
a 

' A It c c 
' u amera o. It 
' 5 · h' h
l127 . M1c 1gan Sout Bend 233-6145 t 
-----------------· 
• 

L-CM SINGLE LENS REFLEX IliA 't 
C''AMERA WITH 50 f 2 Q ' 
IDID • ' 
a 
CHINON LENS AND ' 
t 
CAMERA CASE a ' LIST PRICE a 
$239.50 ' t 
AULTS SPECIAL PRICE t 
a 
• • •••• • • • • • • •! •• • • • • • • • • • • • • • •
VALERIE'S RESTAURANT • 
• 
801 S. MICHIGAN. SO. BEND • 
• 
(NEXT TO GILBERTS) 289 -0681 • 
• 
Just a few blocks south of River Bend Plaza. • 
V E 0 • 
OPEN 5 am to g BREAKFAST SER • 
pm ANYTIME : 
Mon thru Sat 

5 d •
II am to • 
•sPAGHETTI •
.­

e Sauce 1.65 Meat Sauce 1.80 Meat Balls 1.90 • • M 0 ST A C I 0 L L I· • 
• · sauce 1.65 Meat Sauce 1.80 Meat Balls 1.90 • 'e LASA.GNA 2 35 RAVIOLI 1. 7 5 • 
• I • • 
• 1Dinners inc. Italian bread & salad and soup) • :PASTA FAG10Llllltalian bean soup> .45 ~ .65 : 
:ITALIAN SAUSAGE SANb WIC H. 1.1~ •MJ:AT BALL _SANDWICH 1.00 • 
.__.:.____,:-:-::=---::=-:-:-:~:-:-::::-::=::-=-;;:-:-~;::-:-=-:--::::-:::-----41 
• USE OUR LIGHTED PARKING LOT • ~DOORS NORTi-1 ON MICHIGAN ST! 
tion in Angola was reported • CARRY OUT ORDERS WELCOME • gaining ground so rapidly that ....--•
15

u.s. officials acknowledged pri-• A QUALITY RESTAURANT OPEI\ATED BY • 
~~::i~ ~!e~:uld win the war:. • • j~~~-~~~~~JJ._~E~l'~!.Sl~rj~~-~~•-•-•= In his luncheon speech Kis-,------••••••••••••••••--••... singer said su~rpowers should 1 TONIGHT UU I 
not take "umlateral advan-• • • • tage" of crisis situations. With-I I 
out _sp~cifically na~ing Angola, 1 sT R E \ S A N D & C A A N I
he mdicated that If the Rus-1 I sians in that African I I
1M 
**************************""" ****'*'** ..__________________________.. 
J/ 
/JUcJu,
o'tO-W-.£.1 

~ ~~~ Can{)'-~./CUt ~ U 
~ 
C,.;:',.. 

\.,..­
1


@1-.._ ..,._ 
11 
11 

~ I
II I 
7:15 -10:00 O'Laughlin Aud. I 
II 
CARTOONS & SHOW I 
II Tonight and Friday I 
I
I 
$1 25 I 
· I 
II I 
SMC SOCIAL COMMISSION 
.. 

_Th_u_rs_~ay_,_J~uarv 2_2_,_19_7_6____t_h~e~o--::b=--s-=---=e--::r--::v--=e=--r=----3 

Number of 0-C break-ins lowered 
robbed over the break is inaccurate stereos, clock-radios and televis­occurred to the Off-Campus Hous­number of off-campus crimes oc­
by Chris Hopkins 

according to the latest South Bend ions. ing Office. We also have informat­curring directly south of campus, a
Staff Reporter 

Police crime statistics. The landlord's figure of 80 ion on home crime prevention at South Bend Police ofticial noted, 
According to these figures, there burglaries may not be as inaccurate our office for the students." "The biggest reason for this is that
Many off-campus student resi­

were only 18 reported thefts be­as it seems. this is the area in which most of the 
dences were targets for burglary 
Palma said a program was used
tween Dec. I and Jan. 17 involving "There may have been a greater students choose to live because it is
over the semester break. 
last year over the break which
student residences. A large percen­number of students robbed than easy for them to get to and from
However. the figure quoted by a 

involved leaving their valuables
tage of the stolen property included the police figures show. However, school."
landlord of 80 student houses being 
with professors. This program pro­
many students may not have He added, "There is no special
ved unsuccessful because of a lack
reported their losses because they significance to the location. It is
of participation. 

thought they were minor or that the just where the students happen to 
police could be of no help, explain­"Since the program was a flop live." 
ed Darlene Palma, student repre­last year we saw no purpose in According to the police oftkial. (continued /rom page I) "Everyone in the booths or sentative of off-campus housing. trying it again this year," she no comparison can be made be­allotments." holding money must have a deal­Palma added, "Students should remarked. tween student crime and crinJ<.· 
"We're trying to find anything er's card,'' Spellman explained. report any burglaries that have Commenting on the significant involving other residents of South we can to reuse and arc being Bend. el·onomical." they said. He explained, "Burglars choose Last year's Mardi Gras made their victims at random. They know over $20.000 and Spellman attri­who is home and who isn't." 

Mardi Gras in red 
Syrians gain in Lebanon
butes the success to the raflle. "These burglars know where 
"Last year we sold a lot of raffle BEIRUT, Lebanon (AP> -miles from Beirut and a sidebooks and made money, $9000 Palestinian guerrillas and Mos­road leading to Zahlah. A Leba­from the raft1c alone." he said. 
lem private armies took over nese air force base was sur­Set·urlly effective most of Lebanon on Wednes­rounded by guerrillas at Ku­day. squeezing Christians into a leiaat, near the Syrian border 
Spellman also said that security mountainous one-fourth of the in the northeast.. nll'asurcs made a big difference country along the coast north of last year and there arc plans to Beirut. Leftist Moslem forces at­
The offensive appeared timed

L'OntinUL' these this year. "Part of tacked and took over the mu­
to strengthen Syria's hand in
the reason we made so much was nicipal headquarters in Sidon,
mediation efforts. Authoritative
securilv, and this will definitely be ending any semblance of gov­
sources in Damascus said the
contin~cd this year." he said. ernment authority in that im­
Lebanese Christians would 
portant southern fishing center.
"Two years ago there was a lot of 

have to agree to give Moslems 
They also freed prisoners fromcheating and that is why security 
an equal share of political pow­
a state prison.
was increased. but internal cheat­
er as a prior condition to a 
A revolutionary group, theing is still present. it hurts, and 
cease-fire in the nine-month-{)ld 
24th October Movement, backedthere is not much we can do about 
civil war that has claimed 
by radical guerrillas, took overit." he continued. more than 10,000 lives. 
effective control of the northern''The dealers are much more port of Tripoli, Lebanon's sec­efficient, though," Spellman said. 
Syrian Foreign Minister Ab­ond largest city.
"All booths have the same rules 
dul Halim Khaddam said he The 18,000-man governmentand the dealers know what they're was optimistic after a meeting army stayed out of the battles, doing because of dealer school." with Christian President Sulci­except around Zahlah, one of man Franjieh and Moslem the last Christian outposts in leaders, including Rashid Ka­the Bekaa Valley. of eastern
SMC InPIRG 
rami, whose resignation as pre­Lebanon, where troops fought mier Sunday left the country 
Moslems and Palestinians from
without a government. Syria. An army spokesman said
has meeting 
The Lebanese army said the an air force reconnaissance Moslems and guerrillas were plane brought back photos aided by 3,500 to 4,000 regulars showing scores of army and po­by John Calcutt of the Palestine Liberation lice posts ablaze in the BekaaStaff Reporter 
Army who had crossed into region. Lebanon from Syria. However, A flotilla of private yachts
Debbie Hale, chairperson for St. 

diplomatic and Palestinian evacuated 3,000 Christians from Mary's lnPIRG emphasized the sources in Damascus said the a besieged coastal pocket south importance of a good membership 
number crossing during the of Beirut and sailed them to drive in this semester to assure past several days totaled no Jounieh in the Christian heart­lni'IRG's effectiveness in the com­more than 2,000. U.S. State De­land. As the yachts sailed past ing years at a meeting of the group partment and Israeli military Beirut, Moslems fired at them last night. estimates supported the lower with 50-caliber machine guns 
llalc stated, "We received $2600 figure. mounted on trucks parked in ~tudL·nt contributions at the The guerrillas took over the along a palm tree-lined cliff beKinning of the year, mostly key town of Chtoura astride the road. 
lhrough ignorance I'm so1·ry to say. Beirut-Damascus highway 30 Central authority in Beirut So I feel our organization has a special obligation to the students." 
Special career program
She cnntinul'd, "We're losing some of that first-year enthusiasm. So a good recruiting drive would 
planned for SMC and ND
help St. Mary's immeasurably." A statewide lnPIRG conference 
held at St. Mary's this past by Ann Barnard Mary's seniors. O'Connell outlined weekend also comprised a major Staff Reporter the goals of the program, which is Jortion of the meeting's agenda. her internship project for sociology. 
I 
Anne O'Connell, senior sociol­

"We received some good ideas She stated, "Once we realize 
. ogy maJ·or at St. Mary's, has
for economic as well as science-on-there is nothing wrong with being
announced a special Career Prepar­
ientcd studies from some of the undecided or confused, or unccr­ation to be held in students live just like they krum 
deteriordted amidst more 
where other easy burglary vktims, heavy fighting, especially in the such as the elderly, live," the 

devastated hotel and com­
ofticial noted. · mercial district. Moslem forces Doors and windows in off-cam­tried to push forward from the pus homes were used hy manysuburb of Chiyah to relieve two burglars to gain access lo the

Palestinian camps surrounded 
students' valuables. Off-campusinside the Christian sector. An· students should have their land­

other Moslem neighborhood in side Christian Beirut, Nabaa, 
lords inspect the yuality of these battled with right-wing Chris­entrances to insure their safety, tian militiamen ringing it. Palma stated. 
-, 

Rt:NT AS. U. REFRIGERATOR THIS SEMESTER 
$30.00 for large $25.00 for small 
FIRST COME BASIS­LIMITED NUMBER AV AIBLE COME TO THE STUDENT UNION TICKET OFFICE MWF--1-3 pm. 
L-----------::-;-;-;-;-;;-;-;-;-;-;-;-;-;--;-;-;--;-lil.-:illlla-iiiliii~
IIUIIDDIIIUIUIIIIUIUIUUIIIu 

THE POSTER PLACE 
100 11x17 POSTERS only $10.00 


TUESDAY & THURSDAY 
DANCE THIS WEEKEND TO 
PATCHWORK 

4, 
MICHIGAN'S TOP ROCK NIGHT CLUB! 
81LL IIAGY'I 

..9gf.f!f'l 
program ....................
other lnPIRG groups," commented tain where to begin our career •
conjunction with the Career Devel-
Hale. search, we can calmly work togeth-. 





St d t u • •
Particular research projects men-opment Center at St. Mary's. er with very beneficial results.'' U en fllQfl
tioned involved low income hous-Specifically designed for St. • • ing. interest on bank loans, a plant Mary's and Notre Dame seniors The .P~ograf"k will t~Nu~deJ. the. 8 k E h survey, and a recycling center. who arc uncertain about a career superVISIOn 0 aren ell. lrec-00 XC ange • 
choice, the program will assist tor of the Career Development. •
·'I guess that the recycling . Center.
1 1 .
center is really our dream," Hale students in eva uatmg persona • • commented. "And I really think it skills and in gaining necessary A special explanatory meeting pickup money$ unsold books. would work because a lot of self-confidence through a series of will be hosted by O'Connell onireusable materials just get thrown workshops, panels and informal Thurs., January 22 at 6:00p.m. in away by students. • • gct-togethers. Stapleton Lounge. All interested • 
"But the big block right now is In a tetter sent Tuesday to all St. seniors are invited to attend. 
Today 7-9 pm • 
funding and student participat--------------....----­
--------, • 
ion," she noted. 



1 BAMB1 :
Kathy Nolan, the group's sec-• retary, mentioned students may : receive credit for work done on 2:30 4:00 5:30 7:00 8:30 • •••••••••••••••••••••••¥¥¥¥ 
various lnPIRG projects. She add­

~he~T;~~h~:n~h\:k :Oats~~e~~~:~ .• Allunclaimed books become + 
specialfortheirclass." ~ BREAKOUT 
Hale suggested such cooperation L • with the various departments could 1:30 3:30 5:30 7:30 9:30 • 
the property ofthe 
also aid the group by involving more students in lnPIRG. • 
"More interaction with the sch-lj(;ile~ tlfJU~e t=liX t Stud.ent Un.ion on Friday Jan. 29 • 
ool as well as the students will ..J assure St. Mary's lnPIRG of the TWIN THEATRES-1.00 CENTER-MISHAWAKA-255-95~ •••••.•••••·· ·.:.....:··· •••.· ..............:··· ~ ··exposure we need." she stated. ,.-,.-,.­
4 the observer Thursday, January 22, 1976
r 
'• Muskie delivers Demo reply to Ford speech 
(continued from page 1) 
"Our goal is to balance the budget as soon as the economy permits, ·• Muskie said. He said that theHouse and Senate have imposed a "tough" spending cei­ling on federal spending and will 
Elder1y aid effort established 
impose similar ceilings from now on. The congressional ceiling for 1976 is 375 billion dollars, with a $74 billion dificit. It will begin work on a 1977 ceiling this spring. 
Muskie called for an evergy policy that would keep oil and 
by Mark Crane 
Staff Reporter 

A Community Action Program to aid the elderly has recently been established in conjunction with Volunteer Services and other soc­ial-aiding agencies in and about the South Bend area. 
Offering Widespread opportun­ities to students desiring to help the elderly members of the sur­rounding areas of the Notre Dame campus, the majority of the v '· will involve nursing homes ..~d community projects. 
Unlike other orgfanizations, the Community Action Program hopes not only to bring some happiness to the elderly, but to also help sispel the often-formed sterertypes that younger generations often have of the elcerly, according to Dave Walters, who is involved with the program. 
One of the goals of the Commun­ity Action Program is to correct the isolation which society forces upon the elderly by developing a closer relationship between both the el­derly and the students, Walters said. 
. TGhrough different projects and activities, each generation will hjopefully come to appreciate the other just a little more than before, he added. 
At Mock Convention 
Brademas to speak 

The Honorable John Brademas, 3rd district congressman, will ad­ress the 1976 Mock National Con­vention on March 6 during the afternoon session. The confirmed speakers list now reads: Robert Strauss, Father Theodore Res­burgh on March 3, Congressman Donald Riegle keynoting the con­vention on March 4, and Congress man John Brademas on March 6. 
A Campaign Central will be opened on January 26 in the LaFortune Student Center. The hours for this will be from 11:30 
a.m. to 1:00 p.m. on Monday and Thursday and from 7:00 p.m. to 
10:00 p.m. on Wednesday even­ings. In connection with this there will be a meeting of the Campaign Chairs on Monday, January 19, at 
6:30 p.m. in Room 206 of the Center for Continuing Education. 

The Credentials Committee and the State Delegation Chairs are asked to attend a meeting on January 25, at 6:30 p.m. in room 127 Nieuwland. The next Public Platform Hearings will be planned by the Woman's Caucus on the subjects of abortion and passage or rejection of the ERA. In conjunc­tion with this there will be a Platform Committee meeting on January 20, at 7:00 p.m. in room 127 Nieuwland. 
The Woman's Caucus will hold a meeting on Tuesday, January 20 at 
8:30 p.m. in room 161 Lemans. The Speaker shall be Paula Aub­urn, the President of the South Bend National Organization of Women, (NOW). 
All interested persons are invited to attend. 
The Convention is in need of stenographers and typists. Pay is negotiable according to abilities. Please ca118407, 8309, or 8311. 

natural gas prices at • 'reasonable levels" until a reviving economy can absorb further increases. Ford proposes that natural gas prices be deregulated; oil price controls already are being phased out. 
Muskie also defended disclos-
Another objective of the Com­munity Action Program is to help solve transportation problems ex­perienced by students in getting to nursing homes and the private homes of the aged, Walters said. 
There will be a brief meeting Mon. Feb. 26, in the auditorium of Haggar Hall at 7p.m. for all interested students. 
Various agencies will be repre­sented at the meeting. A discus­sion of "What it is like to be old in today's society" will also be includ­ed in the agenda. 
Anyone desiring further informa­tion may inquire with the Volunteer Services or contact WaOlters at 289-8837. 
------COUPON I 

I 

I $1.00 off
I 
I 

1 aey
I

1 14 inch Pizza 
I 
I 
II 

713 E. Jefferson Expires Feb. 1
1 

ures of U.S. intelligence opera­tions, and said, "the world is watching with amazement" as Congress examines in public the nation's intelligence secrets. 
He said such disclosure, fre­quently criticized by President Ford is necessary even though there always is a need for secrecy in foreigh policy within limits. 
Curb governmental abuses 
Muskie also called on Congress to continue to curb abuses inside the government. 
•'The abuse of presidential power goes on," he said. "The abuse of our rights by the FBI and the CIA have been exposed. The war in Vietnam went on for years. The secret war in Angola contin­ues." 
He said those problems, coupled with the needs of the ailing economy, the rising price of ener­gy, spiraling health costs and a deterioration environment, consti­tute not only the state of the union but Congress' "agenda for correc­tive action.'' 


~BOOK8ARN 
NEW and OLD 
IN THE NEW GEORGETOWN CENTER Just off Cleveland. Turn left at the Georgetown Sign at Emmons Road. 272-5520 



Juniors!!! 
Sign up for Senior Portraits Now! 
Wed. Jan. 21-Fri. Jan. 30 
at Dining Halls from 5:15-6:30 p.m. 
or 

call 7085 or 7524 from 7 p.m. -9p.m. 
------COUPON -----­
$.50 off any 1 10 inch Pizza II 
I 
I 
1I 
713 E. JeHerson Expires Feb. 1 I 

I limit 1 coupon per pizza· limit 1 coupon per pizza


1.-------------------····-······-,-------------------.l 
·) 
.i\ 
''I 
Thursday, January 22, 1976 
the observer 

Air wreckblamed on pilot 
Associated Press WASHINGTON -Pilot error probably caused a Trans World Airlines jet carrying 92 persons to descend into the side of a mountain in northern Virginia a year ago, a federal fact finding agency ruled on a split vote Wednesday. All 92 persons died when TWA Flight 514, flying through a severe storm at more than 260 miles per hour, slammed into the top of Mt. Weather, a peak in the Blue Ridge Moun­tains that houses a top secret government installation. The Dec. 1, 1974, flight had originated at Indianapolis, Ind., with a stop at Columbus, Ohio, and was on its final approach into Dulles lnterational Airport outside Washington when it crashed. The plane originally was to land at National Airport in Alexandria, Va., but was di­verted to Dulles becuse freak cross winds had closed Nation-
LOUIES 
THURS. LADIES NIGHT 



best pizza in town 
$.30 beer 

~~ft, 
lj2lb. 
Louie burger Specials 
al's runways. 

The National Transportation Safety Board concluded on a 3­to-2 vote that the pilots of the plane were probably respon­sible for the crash. The two dis­senting members would have assigned probable blame to both the ground-based air traf­fic controllers and the pilots. 
The board did question the wisdom of the action taken by the air traffic controller and also cited the Federal Aviation Administration, which employs the controllers, for failure to clear up the "confusion and misinterpretation of air traffic terminology although the agen­cy had been aware of the prob­

If you're good enough, you can be a Navy Nuclear Officer. 
The Navy needs some very special college graduates who aren't afraid to find out how good they really are. Who will consider our extensive and demanding training pro­gram, the most exciting chal­lenge of lheir lives. A challenge that leads to an exciting future as a Naval OHicer aboard a nuclear-powered surface ship or submarine. 
Find out more from your local recruiter, or call toll-free 800-841-8000 
Be Someone Special in the Navy. 

LT BllL HUGIOO OFFICER PROGRAMS BUllDING41 NAS GlENVIEW, ll.. 60026 OR CAlL COI.I.EX;T: 
312--657-2170--2171 


Bartholemew memorial mass 
A mass wiil be offered Friday, January 23, for Prof. Paul Bartholo­mew, professor emeritus of the Department of Government and International Studies, who died Dec. 23 after a long iilness. 
The mass is being sponsored by Pi Sigma Alpha, the government honor society, in conjunction with the department. 
The mass will be held in the Crypt of Sacred heart Church at 4:30p.m. The celebrant will be Fr. Raymond Cour, administrative head of the department. 
The hass marks the one-month anniversary of Bartholomew's death. 
BULLA SHED a warm spot on a cold day! 
JOIN US -meet new people ­especially if you have 
never come 
THIS FRIDAY & EVERY FRIDAY MASS-DINNER 
5:15 m 




Founded November 3, 1966 

The Observer is published by the students of the University EDITORIAL BOARD of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. It does not necessarily Teny Keeney 
Editor-in-Chief reflect the policies of either institution. The news Is reported 
AI Rutherford Managing Editor as accurately and objectively as possible. Editorials represent Jim Eder Executive Editor 
the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Com­
Pat Hanifin Editorial Editormentaries are the views of individual editors. Opinions, cartoons and regular columns express the views of their 
Bob Mader News Editor authors. Column space is available to all members of the Maureen Rynn Cal!1lus Editor community, and leHers are encouraged to promote the free Mary Janca St. Mary's Editor expression of varying opinions on campus. Ken Bradford Copy Editor Val Zurblis Wire Editor Editorials: 283-1715 News: 213-8661 Business: 283-7471 
Tom O'Neil Features Editor Business Manager Tom Modglin Bill Brink Sports Editor Advertising Manager Tom Whelan 
Dan Sanchez Senior Night Editor 
Thursday, January 22, 1976 
..J 






At Last(?) 
Finally it appears that we have a student concerns, during much of the reasonable first-semester calendar. The controversy. Hopefully, that appearance Academic Council's vote to restore the will now disappear, Hopefully students Friday after Thanksgiving as a day off is and administrators can begin to handle certainly welcome to the thousands of their disagreements in a calmer and more students who were so shocked by last trusting manner. December's vote. We have perhaps seen A considerable part of the credit for the end of the Great Calendar Feud. persuading the Council to reverse itself 
and start a return to mutual trust goes toIf so, it has certainly taken long enough. 
Academic Commissioner Mike GassmanThe University hasd spent four years and his associates.
battling over an issue which any outsider For the moment, though, some suspic­would expect to be resolved quickly and ion remains. The news of the Council'scalmly. Instead, this "Christian commun­vote made many students remember theity'' became bogged down in a long series Council vote last year. Then it also looked of decisions and reconsiderations and as if they had won their argument for are-reconsiderations, all marked by acri­week-long Thanksgiving break, but whenmonious accusations of deliberate malice the calendar was published, they got only The whole weary mess was crowned by the four days. Some people even suggest the absurdity of the Council's vote to hold Saturday class will be put on the Saturday classes the day after Thanksgiving. 
But judging from Tuesday's vote, that after Thanksgiving. The suggestion was facetious (at least we think it was) but it
absurdity was but an aberration. Perhaps indicates the bad feeling that existsthe entire feud will turn out to be an towards the Administration. 
aberration as well. We would like to think We trust that no such ''misunderstand­that the widespread student suspicions of ings" as last year's will recur, but in lightthe Administration evoked by this fight of past events any rejoicing over the end ofwill end with it. It has appeared that the the Calendar Feud is unlikely until people administration followed a policy of ''Father actually see the calendar. 
knows best,'' a policy of disrespect for 
also true that most of them will classrooms at Notre Dame and St.
P.O.BoxQ 

remain theoretical and prejudicial·,( Mary's. These encounters have because a majority of the participa-been few in number, but whenever nts will have no genuine, first-hand they occur they prove a liberating 
Dear Editor: knowledge of gay men and women. experience for gays and straights Their misunderstanding of these alike. The January lS Observer contai­people will be derived in large part ned a national wire service account 
from the centuries of cultural, It is possible no comparablyof the recent Vatican document social, and theological vilification important aspect of our common dealing with extramarital sex, ho 
of homosexuals that continues to humanity has been as neglected mosexuality, and the importance of permeate our lives today. and feared as homosexuality has sex education. As members of the Prompted by the new Church been at Notre Dame and St. Gay Community of Notre Dame we document assailing the exploitive Mary's, two communities that call respond to the Vatican's statement, treatment of sexuality in the mass themselves Christian and intellect­not simply to express our approval media and stressing the need for ual. We hope to change this or disapproval, but rather to propo­prudent sex education, members of situation. se what we believe be the Gay Co~mu.ni~y of Notre Dame Anyone wishing to receive furth­
can an important consequence of this eve­e~press their w1llmgness to speak< er information can contact the Gay nt at Notre Dame and St. Mary's. w1t~ classes and o~her. grou~s who Community of Notre Dame by Homosexuality is a subject that destre to make thetr dtscusstons of writing to our Post Office Address. will be discussed in some classro­homosexuality more than academic oms at Notre Dame and St. Mary's exercises. During the past three this semester. While it is fortunate semesters members of our gorup The Gay Community that such discussions do occur, it is have spoken with students in of Notre Dame 

+----~---~ 

'WElfOME TO N{)'Y:.QWINK K... I 
DOONESBURY by Garry Trudeau 
A fiJR.TH&I< (A fiJR!H~R tASTlY, I COM& 60At.OfMINt 60AtOFHIS 70 CHINA IN 711~ (tASTt.Y, 15711& SPEeW IS THE SP&WI HOP& OrR/LRU!N6 He IAIISH&S 
IMPW1&NTA-/MfltE/11&NflfT!{JN A t!Fe-tON6AM81-YOU WP TTON OFN:JI?-OrNORMAIJZA­T!ON-/Jfi?OPPIN6 Ha4CTH /Wf) MAUZ/IJJ1N. I Tf()V.) AC!P ON 711& 6/?E.PJ LON6 t.!f=&.) 
/ti/AU. / 



singalong junk 
A Message of Anger 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii joe gill 
One of the things I did during the holidays, amidst a lot of relaxation and a measured amount of drinking (or vice-versa) was a bit of reading. My first avenue was the local newspaper, a collection of assorted trivia known as the Buffalo Evening News, and about as t inspiring as the State of the Union Address. 
But in order to get a general feeling of the city, the country, and the world that was absent during lunchtimes with the Observer, I read it from front to back. And one clear feeling emerged. 
I was angry. I was angry at a country that acknowledged corruption with a congenial shrug, and pacifies itself-with a term known as "social reform''. I was angry at the city, at the crime that was rampant, at the persecution and deaths of helpless citizens. I was angry at the terrible injustice committed against Andrei Sakharov, Nobel Prize winner prevented from receiving his award by the ideology that he spoke against. 
It was a real anger, reaching from the depths and filling the senses, shouting to the world, "Why?" It was an anger that held me, and the more I expressed this to my family and friends, the stronger it became. Spending four months at Du Lac had awakened the senses, senses that for years lay dormant under mountains of 
"you can't change the system", under words of "acceptance", 
under hopelessness. 

Coming home again and facing this with a fresh approach stirred up old feelings. I thought of the student demonstrations in the 60's, of people who expressed their discontent with heated words, as if 
their fiery enthusiasm had the power to burn down old institutions. 
I yearn for the warmth of that fire. I yearn for a concern for others that was so prevalent 200 years ago. I yearn for the real America, the democratic America, the just America, where the fire of love burns brightly. 
I thought I could find it here at Notre Dame. I thought a college campus, if only by virtue of the age of its students, would possess the spirit to fight against the bad, to fight for the good. I was wrong, dead wrong ....The few who really do care are caught in the rope hoisted by their own peers: If they don't care, why should we? 
But as a freshman, I am glad enough that I still do care. The avalanche of futility has not yet fallen. The ceremonial burial under the soil of cynicism has ben avoided. The fire of hope still burns. I can still be angry. 
This, then, is my message for '76. Anger, fueled by hope. As our forefathers did, let us realize that change is possible, that if enough of us believe, something will happen-something good. This anger, tempered with respect, can, indeed must, be expresed at Notre Dame in a concrete and down-to-earth way. Because there are definite issues of dissatisfaction on campus: 
A student government that speaks very softly, if at all. 
The COUL report, perhaps the only real indication of students' needs, and a report that must not be allowed to die without ever having a fighting chance. 
We, as both students and residents, have legitimate complaints about, as well as a responsibility to, our school and our home. 
We, as Americans, live in a democracy where change and hope are not antithetical, but rather, where change has followed hope for the last 200 years. 
Get angry. 
Thursday, January 22, 1976 
the observer 
7 

why see a shrink? listen to a psychic 
Anyone who has an insatiable desire to have his character read by a roadside mystic will have a hard time finding one. South Bend is not noted for its hoardes of individuals with supernatural powers. Besides that, they don't advertise. Consequently, locating the gifted ones is mostly a matter of luck. 
Some advisors require an appointment, while others welcome walk-ins. It took me five days to get an appointment with one, who was obviously not anxious to takt my money. . 
Two days later I walked up the steps of the slightly run down white frame house. A slightly built, dark complexioned woman greeted me at the door. She wore a long 
house dress and wore her dark hair pulled 
She started off by telling me I was a nice Not very impressive. I've been telling myself that for years. 
She told me that I didn't like people ordering me around. A keen judge of human nature could probably tell that by looking at me. 
Then she told that I have a quick temper, but I cool off after a very short time. That the first thing she said that was impressive. It was an excellent guess, if 
an example of psychic power. I told her that some of the statements she made about my character were fairly accurate and asked her how she had learned her skill. 
"I've hod dis power oil my life," she replied. Ah, yes, of course, the classic gypsy sterotype is true. 
The other reader I visited lives in an old pink house in Mishawaka. If the first reader ws reminiscent of a shrink, this one was everybody's ideal for a grandmother. She was one of the friendliest people I've ever met. 
Whereas the first reader had not used any vehicle for the reading, this reader used a regular deck of playing cards. From the color of my eyes and hair, she decided I was the jack of hearts. She handed me the deck and had me shuffle it thoroughly, then give it back to her. 
She placed several cards on the table and tlod me that I was going to see someone I hadn't seen in a long time. There are two people I have in mind whom I'd like to see, I told her, but which one would I see? "Oh, you'll see both of them," she said positively, brushing back her white hair, "because there are two jacks down, you see." 
My lucky day is going to come along soon, obviously, because the holy seven was touching the four, symbol of my desires. I can't lose when the will of God touches my desire card. 
Each card has a meaning of its own anct also a meaning in relation to the cards it is placed near or over. The meanings of the individual cards taken together form a gestalt. 
I was off to a fast start when the five of diamonds. symbol of organization was placed above my jack. To the left of the jack fell the king of spades, symbol of God. I couldn't be in better hands with Allstate. 
One card followed another, interspersed 
with anecdotes, adages and folk sayings. 
Did I hope to change jobs? I worked for 
government last summer, which is similar 
to working in an asylum. Yes, I told her. 
Score one for her. My job hunt would 
probably be successful, she declared. 
One of the cards she turned up indicated 
tp her that I have intuitive powers. She 
suggested that I might have great psychic 
abilities myself. 

"You don't have to say a thing and you 
don't start no fights that way," she said. 
According to her reading, I'm talented 
beyond belief. When I asked her if she 
ever gve anyone a pessimistic reading, she 
responded that she read only what the 
cards told her. 


bob mader 

The specific items she mentioned about my travel, vocation, and personal life were fascinating. However, some things she said about my talents, determination, or financial success were so general, they could be said about anyone. 
Unlike the other reader, there was no charge for her services. 


A great deal of what both the readers told me about myself was close enough to my personal experiences to lent it credibil­ity. However, neither of them were specific enough to be totally convincing. 
Character readers and advisors may he no different than you or I. But, then again.... 
records 

northern lights-southern cross: astep forward 
gregg bangs 

Northern Lights-Southern Cross is the which is a little hard to believe. 'Rags and Richard Manuel gives an emotional He showed this on the '74 tour where he 
lirst album by the Band in four years. Bones' is another urban saga which dwells account of the death of a drifter in 'Hobo was a standout on guitar. However, this During this stretch, Robbie Robertson, on the sights, sounds and evils of the city. 
Jungle' and joins Helm to take turns album finds Robertson content to take Garth Hudson, Rick Danko, Richard Man­Unfortunately, Robertson does not com­telling the epic journey of 'Acadian fewer solos. When he does take a solo, it is uel and Levon Helm have not been pare them to anything in the past or furure, Driftwood.' Bassist Rick Danko is primar­more in the nature of filler work--a Ia completely inactive. They played behind so the listener cannot ascertain what the ily used in linking Helm's high-pitched George Harrison. In fact, he seems to be at Bob Dylan on Planet Waves, then ac­lyrics attempt to say to him.(her) delivery with Manuel's lower,deeper voice. his best in this album when he's playing compantcd him on his 1974 tour. acoustic guitar, as he does on 'Acadian
In all the songs, the vocals are excellent. One major difference between the vocals
Although it was recorded in the late six­Driftwood' and 'Hobo Jungle.'
Drummer Levon Helm had the lead vocal in of this album and past efforts is that they
ties. they were also featured in the 1975 Whether or not it is intentional, Garyth
over half the cuts and his nasal pitched stand out. Before, they would be
release of the Basement Tapes. Thus, it Hudson emerges from this album as the 
has taken steps forward. Hudson's growthmcr~ed in self-pity that it manages to southern delivery stands out will, In some overshadowed(and practically be inaudi­as a musician is spectacular and the vocalsalienate the listener. How often can one instances, it makes the song, as in 'Forbid­ble) by instrumentals. Now, they are left to are improved from four years ago.
take in lines like'--it makes no difference den Fruit.' Although the lyrics tend to hold their own. The decision to accent the Combined with an impecable productionwho I need. they're just a face in the crowd overindulge at times, the southern twang vocals is a fortunate one for Helm, Danko job, the pluses offset the aforementionedin a dead end street.' of Helm is perfect as the bewildered nar­and Manuel have never sounded better. 
deficienceies. Although Northern Lights­·Forbidden Fruit' finds the narrator of rator. In 'Ophelia,' he does a fine job of Another major difference in this album is Southern Cross is slightly differnt fromthe song questioning the values of society portraying a man longing for his long lost the accent on instruments. Previously, the 
Band albums, it is nonetheless one ofwhile walking through Times Square, 'love.' stand-out performer would be Robertson. fi11er efforts. 


records 
kansas---more than just apretty album couer 

record courtesy of mae's record rack 
Kansas should have an identity problem. 
They sound like a number of groups, ranging from Yes to the Electric Light Orchestra to Styx. Although they have been touring extensively, they usually don't get top billing which is really the only way to pick up any kind of reputation. 
At times, Steve Walsh's keyboard work sounds like it was taken from a Rick Wakemen songbook while Robbie Stein­hardt's violin work seems patterned after ELO. Rich Williams plays a guitar reminescient of Styx while Kerry Livgren 
sounds like he's imitating Steve Howe of YES at times. This dual identity leads to feelings of ambivalence on the part of the listener. 
However, Kansas saves itself from totally baffling the listener by offering a u­nique blend of these various styles. On practically every song of their latest album,Masque, a different twist is applied to an instrument just to keep you on edge. Robbie Steinhardt's violin is the prime example. Classically trained, Steinhardt will give an interesting solo in the begin­ning of a song only to play a background role in the rest of the cut. In another song, he uses the violin to compliment the guitars and keyboards---most notably the keyboards of Walsh. 
Walsh plays as if he's trying to become America's answer to Rick Wakemen. Like Wakemen, he has the talent to surround the rest of the band with the synthesizer while managing not to drown them out. Although he lacks the finesse and overall musical ability of his English counterpart, 

gregg bangs 

he plays with a fervor that is suited for Kansas' style of music. 
Walsh and guitarist Livgren wrote Masque's material and have turned out two fine songs in 'Child Of Innocence' and 'The Pinnacle.' 
These two songs show the diversity that could lead Kansas beyond opening acts. Both contain solos from Steinhardt and Livgren while Walsh's synthesizer is the dominant force throughout. Walsh and Steinhardt also combine to give unique, high-pitched vocals. 
Unfortunately, most of the other songs sound somewhat alike. If Kansas can turn out an album where they have a unique approach on every song, then they'll make headway. Otherwise, they'll have to be content with turning out the most original album cover of the year. 

---~-~~~"!"""'-......-..----~-------------------------------------­
the observer Thursday, January 22, 1976 


Proxmire, science lectures slated 
~ 

Sen. William Proxmire (D-Wis.) will keynote the bicentennial obser­vation in March sponsored by Notre Dame, St. Mary's College and the South Bend community. 
The senior Wisconsin senator, known for his watchdog role over federal government spending and his record of consecutive roll call votes in Congress, will speak at the opening of the four-day festival, March 7. 
The two-hour inaugural sesion will start at 3 p.m. in the Athletic and Convocation Center arena and will be open to the public. A patriotic concert interspersed with dramatic readings will prece<le 
Blood test could find deadly clots 
TUCSON. Ariz. <AP) -A simple blood test now appears possible that would identify women who may develop dan­gerous blood clots while taking the contraceptive "pill," a re­search scientist said Wednes­day. 
For women thus identified, 
the drug heparin -a so-called 
blood-thinning agent -could 
then be used for protection 
against clots that may form 
during surgery or after injury. 
The test might also relieve 
the worry of millions of women 
by showing that they are not in 
particular danger of forming 
clots when taking the oral con­
traceptive containing estrogen, 
the female sex hormone. 
About 12 million American 
women take such pills and ex­
perts say relatively few risk 
formation of clots because of it. 

Proxmire',s address. The univer­sity of Notre Dame Band, Orches­tra and Jazz ensemble will provide the music. 
The Wisconsin senator's address is expected to relate to the theme of the academic conference, "An Almost Chosen People: The Moral Aspirations of Americans." 
Proxmire has been in politics since 1950 . when he was elected to the Wisconsin State Assembly. · 
A special election to fill the seat left vacant by the death of Sen. Joseph McCarthy put him into congress in 1957. He was returned to the Senate in 1958, 1964 and 1970, the last time by an unpreced­ented landslide in which he carried all of Wisconsin's 72 counties. 
Proxmire has not missed a roll call vote since April, 1966. He cast his 4,000 consecutive vote last October, a Congressional record. 
Notre Dame students are invited 

to participate in Glamour Maga­
zine 1976 Top Ten College Women 
Contest. 
Young women from colleges and universities throughout the country will compete in 'Glamour's search for ten outstanding stud­ents. 
A panel of Glamour editors will select the winners on the basis of their solid records of achieve­ment in academic studies and/or in extracurricular activities on cam­pus or in the community. 
The 1976 Top Ten College Wo­men will be photographed by leading New York photographers 
24-Hour bail bond service available to all students 
by Stephen L. Trainor Staff Reporter 

A bail bond service, established bv the Graduate Student Govern­~cnt, is now available to all Notre Dame graduate students 24 hours a day during the academic year. 
The bail bond fund was estab­lished by a former Notre Dame graduate student to help graduate students post bail for individual amounts not exceeding $100. This amount will cover all misdemean­ors. 
Graduate students who need to avail themselves of this service should call either 234-2341 or 288-1276 and ask to speak to the GSG officer in charge of the bail bond fund. 
Repayment of the bail bond is the responsibility of the student, and is to be remitted within thirty days of the bond posting. Failure to do so will result in a levy of 1.5% interest per month on the principal until it is repaid. 
Margaret Grounds. President of the Graduate Student Union, noted that the service will be denied to studeants in cases involving repea­ted arrests, repeated failure to repay the bail to the GSU, or in such instances as the police or the Graduate School deem it advisable to leave the student in jail. 
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~, 
1 BREW 'n BRUINSI ARMORY DANCE 
t 

JAN. 23 8:30-1 :00 
t 

TICKETS AVAILABLE AT 
LAFORTUNE 
S. U. TICKET OFFICE {11-4) SMC DORM LOBBIES (6-7) 
JAN. 21,22,23 
PRICE: $3.(1) TICKETS LIMITED ALLMUSTSHOWS1VDENTI.D. AND RIDE BUSES 
. 

FORADM11TANCE !!! · · · 
Dr. Stanford Moore, a protein chemist who received the Nobel Prize in Chemistry jointly with Dr. William Stein in 1972, will deliver three Nieuwland Lectures at Notre Dame this week. 
The public is invited to attend the Nieuwland Lectures, to be delivered in Room 123, Nieuwland Science Hall, at 4:30p.m. Moore will describe some methods used to explain the chemical structures of proteins and discuss enzyme puri­cation. he topics will include "The Chemistry of Pancreatic Ribonu­clease." Monday, Jan. 26; "Pan­creatic Deoxyribonuclease," Wed­nesday, Jan. 28; and "Enzymic and Physiological properties of phospho hydrolases," Friday,Jan. 30. 
Moore's research has been con­cerned with the chemical structure and purification of proteins, par-

1 
latest in ~mn's hairstyling· the FREEDOM look! 
ticularly certain enzymes, which He discribed proteins as a group are protein molecules that acceler-of complicated macromolecules ate, and often initiate, biochemicla with some of nature's most intri­reactions. cate and elegant molecular de­
"Enzymes are essential to the signs. performanace of our daily tasks," "If we are ever really to under-Moore said. "Whenever we speak, stand the myriad reactions in which play .football or think, we are using proteins participate in livin~ cells,'' 
enzymes as catalysts." Moore said. 
•
: STUDENT UNION PRESENTS: THE • •• • • 
THE 


~uttn's lastlt 
WELCOMES 


1\nig(Jts 
• NEW CONCEPT in unisex hairstyling for Men and Ms., located on our lower level. 
e SIP COFFEE by the fireplace in a relaxed atmosphere. e COMPLETE PRIVACY in our individual styling units. eFAST SERVICE for carefree cuts and blow styles. e WE FEATURE RK products. 
MANICURES for men $4 PRECISION CUTS $5 HAIRCUTS $4 BLOW STYLING $4.50 PERMANENT WAVING bv NATURAL MAN $25 
AND GET $1.00 OFF WITH YOUR NO OR SMC I D 
,~~.. . . FE. e.-Fe.a~e S6Ji6la



'<ftmenl (astlt 
54533 TERRACE LANE 
One block east of Ironwood, just northof State Rd. 23 across from Greenwood Shopping Center. 
t 
t . . ~l:'es.! .wed., Sa~~ ..8;~Q -. ~:~0~ . .-.. .·:., ·.·. <· 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Thur's. & . Fri. 8:30 -8:30 PHONE 277 • 1691j 

-~------~----------------...........~---------------, 
Thursday, Janu•rv 22, 1976 the observer 
9 

----~~----~~------------~ 
Quota system utilized in admitting women 
(continued from page I) 
result. Therefore, the easiest way out of this unification plan was to undo it and admit women at Notre 
Dame,'' she said. 
In this fourth year of coeduca­tion, otre Dame is still striving to raise the number of women stu­dents gradually. 
"We must meet the publicized statement of the Board of Trustees to have 1,500 women by the I 976-77 academic year,'' Goldrick said. "This year we have 1.320 women students in the student body. Next year, we expect 350 women to complete the goal of 1500 women enrolled." 
Quota system 

The selection of a woman for a place in any given class becomes tedious since only a limited number of women are allowed into the University. 
In 1972, the first year of coed­ucation, 125 women were selected out of 1.134 applicants. in 1973, 417 women chose to enroll in Notre Dame out of 933 candidates. Last year, in 1974, 380 women finally came to Notre Dame from a pool of 1,342 applicants. This academic year, the University en­rolled 331 women into the Fresh­man Class of 1975 from 1,584 applicants, the largest group of female applicants to date. 
Why must there be a quota for the number of women entering a freshman class at Notre Dame? 
According to Goldrick, the first four years of coeducation at Notre Dame arc "transitional." so only 1,500 women will be allowed to enter at this stage. 
·'Then after this quota of women is achieved," he continued, "the state of codeucation will be re­evaluated by the Board of Trus­ees.'' 
iee_s".t;~ears a quot.1 system for wome11· .vould decrease a female applicant's chance of being accept­ed into the University. 
However, Goldrick stated that 75 percent of the men and women who apply to Notre Dame for admission are rejected. Twenty to 22 percent of the applicants each year have been women, and ap­roximately 22% of the student body is composed of women. 
"Therefore, to talk about women as being turned down is distor­tion," Goldrick said. "That would mean that only women could not get into the University." 
Many parents, wno feel their daughter was a victim of the quota system, complain about the reject­ion of their child from Notre Dame. Goldrick said that most admissions officers receive. many complaints from parents in the case of both men and women. 
"If a parent feels a bad decision was made, we review the applicat­ion file of the student to see if a bad decision was made," the admis­
sions director stated. "Human errors do occur so I go over the files to respond to the 
Goldrick emphasized, in 1975, 58 men, thus influencing the nature of
inquiry," he added. 
percent of .all students accepted the male to female ratio.
"Yet the admissions decision is 
decided to enroll in Notre Dame. Jones expressed her feelings
final, and I cannot recall an 
Yet 79 percent of the sons and about the absence of a quota. "If
incident when someone rejected 
daughters of alumni finally enroll­we had a student body composed of 
was readmitted." 
ed in Notre Dame after receiving 40 percent women, that would Limited women's dorms letters of acceptance. mean we would have 3,000 wo­The Board of Trustees must men,'· she pointed out. make the decision whether or not to "But we are close to St. Mary's
A primary reason for having a 
continue the quota system for
quota for women is the limited 
stated. 


women after they re-evaluate the
number of female dorms. Since 
IS YOUR CAR INSURANCE
status of coeducation, according to
there are no coed dorms on 
Goldrick.
campus, the number of women on 
What effect would the absence of
campus must be limited to accomo­
TOO HIGH??? TRY OURS
a quota have on female enrollment? 
date them in the five female 
"Generally, there is a 60 to 40
dormitories. 
Gerry Conway

male to female ratio in coed
"In these first four years of 
colleges and universities in the
coeducation," Goldrick pointed 
country," Goldrick said. "But that
out, "we used male dorms to 
First Equity Insurance
might not happen here because
accomodate the women. Last year, 
only 20 to 22 percent of the
we avoided this policy and used 
256-0263 or 277-1964
students who apply to the Univers­
Lewis Hall." 
ity arc women."
"But we get Badin Hall back 

next year." he noted. 
He stated the housing situation is "a majort reason for having a quota for women, if not the only reason." 
Instrumental in Notre Dame's goal of encouraging women to attend the University of the Alumni Schools Committee. Many of the 157 Notre Dame clubs in the country help spread the word to women as well as to men about Notre Dame. 
''The Schools Committee does an excellent job in contacting the students once they arc accepted," Goldrick commented. 
In addition to working closely with the admissions office, some of the committees have developed local programs to identify outstan­
ding students in the community and to encourage them to enroll at Notre Dame. 
High schools Informed 

For example, Dr. George Karter, schools committee chairman for the Notre Dame Club of Central Penn­sylvania, personally contacts many highschool students from his area. Thus, his personal contact has brought several students from Johnstown, Pennsylvania to the Notre Dame campus. 
The Schools Commtttee for the Notre Dame Club of Denver con­gratulates and offers information on the University to those high school students who have been singled out weekly by the Denver Post as "outstanding teenagers". 
The Schools Committee for the Notre Dame Club of Detroit at­tempts to personally contact every applicant from the Detroit area. 
"This has helped the number of students increase who want to go to Notre Dame," Goldrick said. 
Notre Dame receives applica­tions from women whose parents are alumni of the University. One of the University's priorities is to 
give special consideration to sons and daughters of the alumni. 
"Yet tney must be qualified to meet the academic standards first," Goldrick maintained. "Once the daughter is accepted, we would encourage her to enroll." 
clooege," she continued. "So the question is: should we balance the number of women woth that of st. Mary's?" 
''This is what must be discussed in the re-evaluation. I do not think we should tip the balance between Notre Dame and St. Mary's,"Jones 

LIFE-HEALTH-AUTO -FIRE
No lack of publicity 
602 N. Michigan 
Across From Memorial Hospital 
I
Call 
II••
233-2232 ­


r=-*w.'~~tun~;~~, 
:~ ...-----....~ ~... :;::
I ~ ~ ~ ~ CELEBRATES ITS 
I 

lll~ NEW REMODELING. ~ 
' . 
~ NOWTHRUTHURS.JAN.22 
§: i BOTTLE BEER & ALL MIXED $.50 
~:· 
~: DRAFT $.40 


Getmore out 
ofyourlast
l years
ofco • 

. If for some reason you missed taking Army ROTC in your first two years of college, you can still take it in your last two. But only if you apply while you're still a sophomore. 
In order to make up for the years you missed, you'll have to attend a special camp in the summer before your junior year. You'll earn up to a total of $2,900 in the Two-Year Program. You'll get some good management experience. And you'll get a commis­sion as an Army officer along with a college degree. 
,--------------------------.
Army ROTC Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Please send me more information about the Army ROTC Two·Year Program. 
Ms.

Mr._________________________ Address_____________________ City·__________County__________ State________Zip·_____Phone______ College Attending _________________ 
Graduation Date _______________________ 
j 
I 
I 
j 
1 
j 
I j I I I I 
l ~ 
NO '68 



' ~ 
I 
L . 
t t t 
I 

; .-. ~-.... -.....-..----·-., -.-..:;:::;---------------r"' 
10 the observer Thursday, January 22, 1976 




LIFE 
--a precious gift --an inalienable right 
~l\ -t"-c. floutC.tS of-~t\ t\\.(1 tom~ 
1lt. h.onot' ~ JOU!' prrtstlLc.t lS t'I.~'U.t.Cil.ta afa_ E.lle\taT\Sb.~ ~ea~)-~~ ce l(l.bra,~~ t.n.v. 'b·~a:u.l 'J of h ~ r, allb to yro1Jl6tt. 1.\:~' -re.uc.r~l\.t.e fr()• c.~l\t.ep;ti.IY(\ u:nt\t 1\atu.ra1 a~ath 
"Rt.v. ~amt\ M'hatll 
Sa~\luft C.\\-ui-~ 5U1164\t jnmr9 l\Utll\.~ .j\Hh 
ao'd.cak-etn 
arcr. \1\.\'\\w.~tsr.lt$ ~ 1:~!1··· """--c. 
• 

Export market expands Thursday, .~anuarv 22, $976 the observer 
11 

Rolls-Royce enjoys near record sales in '75 
LONDON (AP) Soaring do the same for 1975, Rolls­fuel costs have made the big Royce is the only auto manu­prestige car an extravagance facturer making any money few can afford. But Rolls­here. Royce, the most prestigious of While such carmakers as them all, has just had one of British Leyland and Chrysler the best years in its seven-dec­U.K. expected record losses 
ade history. and struggled to stay afloat in 
Stressing handcrafted quality a time of slack demand for and catering to an expanding autos, Rolls-Royce Motor Hold­export market, especially in the ings, Ltd., indicated that last United States and Middle East, year's earnings, when reported the makers of Rolls-Royce cars in April, could be above 1974's survived bankruptcy in 1971 net profit of almost $4.5 million. and have become the envy of One reason was an increase the British auto industry. of exports to the oil-rich Middle 
With the possible exception of East, where the company's car the British subsidiary of Ford sales rose to more than 100 last Motor Co., which reported a year, up from 72 in 1974 and 
small profit for 1974 and may just 27 in 1973. But the com-
Inflation rate low-ers 
WASHINGTON (APJ -In­12.2 per cent jump in 1974 and flation cost American con­the smallest yearly increase sumers seven cents on the dol­since 1972 when prices rose 3.4 lar in 1975 and President Ford per cent. said Wednesday it will cost White House Press Secretary them another 5.9 cents this Ron Nessen said the figures year. But that is an improve­show that inflation is moder­ment over 1974 and 1973 when ating. inflation clipped 21 cents off the "It is still higher than the dollar's purchasing power. President would like but it is 
Final year-end figures from better than in the last two the Labor Department showed years," he told reporters. the rise in consumer prices In presenting Congress with slowed in December, increasing the new budget, President Ford 
five-tenths of  one  per  cent.  predicted  a  further  drop  in  the  
For  all  of  1975,  prices  rose  inflation  rate  this year  - to  5.9  
seven  per  cent,  down  from  the  per  cent.  
Pitcher Beer Night  
WITH  
BRUCE CARR  

White House Inn 
8 mi. N. of State Line Take 31 to Niles then North on 51, 3 miles. 683-9842 
WANTED 
Wanted: G.A. Marquette tickets. Lilli Pat 1654. 
Need 2 Davidson fix for parents. Call Mike 1624. 
Need five UCLA tix. Call Mike 287-3897. 
Need 4 tickets to Maryland game. Please call Peggy 4-4198. 
Will be disowned If I don't get 5 Marquette B· Ball tix. Call Eileen 6798. 
Want to buy books lor American Preside· ncy course. George 289-8948. 
Desperate! y needed : 2 tlx for Marquette. Call 1341. 
Need 2 Marquette student tlx. WIll pay or exchange lor UCLA, Maryland, or other llx. 4047 Maureen. 
Need 1-12 G.A. UCLA tlx. Call Chris 4-4608. 
Need 4 Marquette tickets. Call Pat 4·4161. 
Desperately need Marquette tickets. Call Mike 8720. 
Female housemate wanted to share house 
2112 blocks from ·Angela-Notre Dame 
Ave. Intersection. Call 289-4303 between 
5 p.m. and 10 p.m. 
Need two DePaul or Marquette tickets. Mary 1285. 
Need 5 UCLA tickets II Call Martha at 5437. 
Desperately need 1 UCLA tlcketl Will 
barter... 
Call Brltty 287-8826. 
Ne8d UCLA tickets. Joe or Marty 287·5113. 

Need 4 tickets to Maryland game. Call Mike after 6 p.m. 288-0088. 
Need ride to Chicago Fri. or Sat. Please call 3216. 
The Mock Convention is in need of stenographers and typists. Pay is negoti. able according to abilities. Call 8407, <1309, or 8311. 
Management Trainee. To $14,000. Ready for a new career? We are interviewing for a management training program that will allow you to earn $25,000 or more in 5 years while representing our top team of financial specialists in Equities, Insuran­ce, Mortgages and Tax Shelters. Send your resume to: Charles M. Newbanks 120 W . LaSalle Suite 906 South Bend, ln. 46601 
Need tix for UCLA or Maryland. 8386. 
Wanted: Three or four basketball tickets for any Saturday game. Call Tom 1044. 
Desperately need 5 811 3 GA tix to West Virginia or Marquette. Call Tim 272· 
9566. 
Need 2 Marquette tickets, student or GA. Call Julie, 4456. 
Need 4 UCLA fix. Call Bill 8689. 
Need 2 Maryland or Davidson tickets for a job next year. Please call Mike 1438. 
Need 2 Maryland tlx. Please call Kathy 272-5539. 
Need 4th roommate Campus View Apts. 272-6639. Student preferred. 
Wanted: 2 UCLA fix and any number Marquette tix. Call John 8168. 
2 UCLA fix needed. Student or GA. Call Joe 3689. 
Need 2 UCLA tix. Call Frank 1589. 
John desperately needs 3 UCLA fix • student or GA · Will payl 3015. 
pany made clear the United States will continue to be its major single export market. 
"There just aren't that many princes and sheikhs in the Middle East," one company of­ficial said. "But you can go to the San Diego Yacht Club and find 500 people with $200,000 boats. All of them can afford our car." 
Rolls-Royce sold a record 860 cars in the United States last year, 21 per cent more than in 1974. 
Another reason for Rolls­Royce's success is its world­wide reputation for excellence, carefull nurtured since Fred-
Classified Ads 
Need 4 Maryland tickets. Call Ron 8917. 
Need ride to Kalamazoo January 23. Call mary 5384 after 11 p.m. 
FOR SALE 

For Sale: Calculator at less than half original price. F'h. 3248, 134 Keenan. 
For Sale: Panasonic SA-6800X 4-channel receiver with SQ decoder. Call Greg 3361. 
For Sale: Pair cleated Remington snow's. Mounted; Chevy Rally wheels. F-70-14. 289-8063. 
For Sale: Henke ski boots, size 8 . Good Condition. Call Ray, 1754. 
Your Kind of People. Serious high-fideli­ty sound systems to keep you loose, yet at a price that won't get you uptight. Stereo 
Components 20-40 pet. discount. RMS Audio 321 S. Main South Bend, Ind. 
Couches· $20-$30. Free delivery to dorm. Call Mrs. Cooper 272-3004. 
For Sale: '73 Renault 4-door. $1700. 3260. 
FOR RENT 

MUST sublet spacious, one-bedroom Crestwood Apt. Price negotiable. 277­0648. 
For Rent: Ulrge house . 1 acre. 5 min. walk to N.D. 4 beds avail. 701 St. Vincent. Leave name & .-at Observer office. 
Available now. Ulrge furnished house suitable for 5 students. $200 per month. All utilities Included. Call 289-8262 or 234-2212. 
Rent my upstairs. $50. 233·1329. Patty. 
erick Henry Royce, an engi­neer, teamed up in 1904 with the Ron. Charles Stewart Rolls, an aristocrat and pioneering racing driver, to build the first Rolls-Royce. 
Since then Rolls-Royce has turned out more than 70,000 cars and claims more than half of them are still in running or­der. A new one currently costs the equivalent of between $30,­000 and $60,000. 
"A hand-made pair of shoes may cost three times as much to buy as a mass-produced pair but will last four times as long," says Chairman Ian J. Fraser. who was a forei n cor-
House for rent. Partially furnished. Extremely reasonable. 287-7018 or 233· 
2613. 

Country house for rent. Very reasonable. Twelve minutes travel. 233-2613. 
Rent my upstairs. $50 month. 233-1329. 
NOTICES 

Accurate, fast typing. Mrs. Donoho. 232-0746. 
THE ALBUM HOUR IS COMING. 

Morrissey Loan. S20-S150. 1-day wait. 11!4 int. LaFortune. M-F, 11 :IS·ll :IS. ------------· ----­Important l..acrosse team meeting. Frl 4 p.m., Gate 1 ACC. 
Typing 35 cents.page.Call Dan 272-5549. 
IBM Selectric II typing. Manuscripts, dissertations. Experienced. 289-5193. 
LOST& FOUND 

LDst: Puffy black ski mittens. My hands are cold; finder or thief call 4-4608. 
Ring. LDst. It's only a reconstrocted roby, but 1t has sentimental value. Call Jeff 1857. 
LDst: A blue striped flannel shirt with a new pair of glasses in the pockets -near the ACC, Thursday afternoon. Jan 14th. Reward. Call 287-0076. 
LDst: A liquid silver necklace with hishi In the vicinity of O'Shag. Please call 1328. 
PERSONALS 

A  welcome  back  to  Anne  BlanfOrd.  
Namaste.  
The Quad.  

~----------------­
respondent in the 1940s and 1950s for the British News Agency Reuters. 
Last year, Rolls-Royce pro­duced and sold 3,134 cars, about the number that British Leyland could turn out in a day. That was Rolls-Royce's most productive year to date, topping the 1974 total of 2,902 cars, and nearly 60 per cent of last year's production was ex­ported. 
The company's car exports rose in value to the equivalent of $44.8 million in 1975, up 51 per cent from the $29.6 million of car exports recorded a year earlier. 

... 
Would you like to read Finnegans Wake with me? No credit. No value. Everyone invited (even faculty). Room 331 O'Shau·l ghnessy. 7:30 p.m. every Wednesday starting January 21. · 
Teacher, 
Here is your very own personal (finally) to keep your pet rock company. It doesn't need much care but g lve It attention 
because It is very shy and retiring. Keep smiling. 
------------------Me 
Sacrament of confirmation. If you havent been confirmed, and wish to be, contact campus ministry in library (6536) and ask about Confirmation program. 
Dear Kareem Atom Ant Kelly, Catch ya on the rebound. Good luck tomorrow. LDve, MDHM 
REMEMBER THAT DISASTROUS PROM? 
Write down your best story about that awful prom or formal dance and send It in for the Observer Friday the 13th . 
Valentine's Day special I Names (yours and anyone else's) withheld upon re. quest. 
Submit troe stories to: Prom Disaster Box Q Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
CLASSIFIED 
ADS 
GET 
RESULTS 



12 __~t~h~e~o~b~s~e~r~v~e~r~------~Th~u~~=d~ay~,~~="~u=a~~~2~2~,~1~97~6 




Second-half rally spurs Irish win 
by Tom Kruczek 

But the head coaches strongest The people who came to the ACC words of the night reserved
were yesterday expecting a rout were not 
for Toby Knight. Knight, since disappointed in their quest, as 
injuring his ankle before the Ken­Notre Dame crushed St. Joseph's tucky game has been slow coming 97-60. However before that rout around and Phelps is still not pleased with the forwards' play.
was accomplished, the Puma's 
showed the Irish that they were 
"We just have to have more out willing to put up a struggle before 
of Knight as a forward, if we are to they were to be vanquished. The 
have the balance that we need as a Puma's kept the score close thr­
team." Phelps pointed out. "He oughout the first half and for one 
obviously just doesn't have it rightminute of the second half before 
now and that's because of his the Iri!>h felt inclined to rise from 
injury. All Toby needs is a little their 21 minute slumber and finish 
confidence that will come from off a persisten, if slightly meagerly 
hitting a few shots in a row." talented opposition. Even though Knight did have The Irish came out in the first trouble in the scoring column, half and played like a team that was 
putting in just one basket in four thinking about something other 
tries, he did pull down 9 rebounds than the game at hand. St. Jos­
and blocked one shot. eph's was able to keep close by 
The Pumas were led in thevirtue of some hot outside shooting scoring column by Gray with 7 of 16from guards Duane Gray and Gerry from the field for 14 points. Gray'sKlamrowski. With Billy Paterno mate at the guard spot Klamrowski

penetration underneath by Adrian Dantley
and Toby Knight keeping things was next with 13 points, while
Joseph's 97-60 (Photo by Chris Smith)
well in hand underneath, St. Joe's forward-center Kyle Wiggs had 12.
points. The Pumas kept the Irish But with 4:09 to play, the Puma's game.
. was quick to take the outside shot. 
The loss puts St. Joseph's record at

The biggest lead that Notre from blowing the game wide open began a streak of nine points to cut And in the first minute of play it again appeared as if the Irish didn't 9-6.
Dame was able to open up was 10 thanks to Gray's outside shooting. the Irish margin to three points. Dantley and Bernard Rencher con­quite have their heads in the right Following Dantley for the Irish was Paterno with 15 points, then
verted on foul shots from the stripe place. All-American Adrian Dant­
to put the Irish lead back to 4 ley opened the scoring, and that Don (Duck) Williams with 14 and points. But just before the buzzer bucket was answered by rebound Flowers finished off the double ­ending the half, Dave Batton fouled baskets by Bobby Dalton and Dave figure shooters with 11. 
Tom Gallant, who hit his one free Downey, and the Irish lead was not Phelps also pointed out that this begins a key week for the Irish with 
*Observer 
toss, to put the score at 33-30 in but a single point. favor of Notre Dame. However, now was the time that UCLA, DePaul and Maryland next 
Digger Phelps was less than the game was to turn into a rout. on tab. "But it seems like every pleased with that half of basketball, In the next three minutes, the month we are running into key especially the rebounding oppor­Irish were about to run off 17 points weeks, just like in December when 
Phelps the would we tough games a

Sports 
tunities that were missed. while Pumas counter had right in then switched to a different zone with just 2 points. In that time, row," Phelps added. offense, and added a press as the Paterno picked up 8 points, on two The head coach then turned his 
Irish went back on the floor and outside bombs, two free throws and thoughts to the Bruins of Saturday. tried to shake the cobwebs off their a tip in. The score was now 52-36 in "This game will be one of the favor of the Irish, and the game · all-time classics. We have a great was never contested from then on. rivalry with UCLA and I think it's a But the accolades of the contest great thing for college basketball
Fencers open season Saturday 
had to be reserved for more than too." just Adrian Dantley who finished When asked what do you do 
up will be Ed Fellows, also an In sabre, the Irish will depend
Notre Dame's 1976 Fencing team on seniors DiFiglio with 30 points. This time Bruce about a team like UCLA when they
All-American who produced a 24-8 heavily Sam Flowers to be start hitting from 20 feet
had regarded as out likeopens its season this Saturday in a individual record last year. The and Mike Sazdanoff. DiFiglio, a having one of his best games of his were three ago
home matchup against Cleveland they weeks at 
third man will be junior John Strass three year monogram winner, young college career. Flowers fin­Pauley Pavillion, Phelps smiled aState, Indiana and Miami (0.) 
who accumulated 26 wins in 1975, compiled a 35-11 slate last season, ished the night with 11 points, and knowing smile and commented,Universities. Action is slated to second highest for epee. best in that weapon for Notre Dame nine rebounds and as Phelps said "We'll come up with somethingbegin at 10:00 in the Athletic and The highly talented foil team also fencers. Sazdanoff, one of three after the game "he was unbeliev­I'm sure."
Convocation Center. 
returns all three men. The trio of captains, has steadily improved in able tonight. Bruce played with added,
The traditionally tough Irish a Phelps then "We'll be 
Pat Gerard, Mike McCahey and the previous seasons and will lot of intensity and made the shots ready, as will the student body."
swordsmen will try to improve on a Terry McConville compiled a 99-28 strengthen the sabre position . 
.. 
23-2 record of a year ago. Leading won-loss record last winter. They Following this weekend's per­he had to." Roger 0. Valdiserri Sports Infor­
Flowers explained it as a case of mation Director of the University,Coach Mike DeCicco's Irish will be will be receiving pressure, though, formance the Notre dame fencers
the epee weapon as all three top "being in the right place in the concluded the post-game interview 
from junior Bill Kica, who lost only will again play host. On January 27 right time. The passes were there remarking that the UCLA game willmen return. The number one and three matches. the Irish will face three formidable tonight, and there were open lanes. be "the students' game."
two positions belong to Tim Glass In sabre. the Irish will depend foes in Baruch, NYB and Wayne As a result, and since Dantley was Phelps flashed that same know­and Ed Fellows, respectively. Gla­heavily on seniors Sam DiFiglio, a State and on the following day they 
ss, an All-American last year, is missing some in the first half, I ing smile again and nodded in total 
three year monogram winner, will meet Tri-State and Michigan. 
started to shoot a lot more." ment.
also ranked eighth nationally and is· compiled a 35-11 slate last season, Wayne State, NYU and Notre a current candidate for the 1976 best in that weapon for Notre Dame Dame were the top three teams in epee Olympic team. Backing him fencers. Sazdanoff, one of three the nation last year. 
Track team home for tri-meet 
team vaulters will be George Matteo and anchor the weights for the Irish
The Notre Dame track 

Paul Taylor. along with sophomore Chris Corri­
starts its 1976 indoor season at 
gan and Mark Hug and Jim
home this Friday night in the The sprint and hurdle chores will 
Hoffman, a pair of freshmen.
Athletic and Convocation Center. be handled by Jim O'Brien, Paul 
Friday's meet will be the first
Scheduled to begin at 7:00 p.m.,· Martuscello, Arnie Gough and 
step in a season that coach Pi~ne
the triangular meet will also fea­Chuck Wills with freshman assis­
hopes will culminate in the NCAA 
ture the University of Illinois-Chi­tance coming from Jeff Anderson 
Indoor Championships at Detroit in 
cago and DePaul. and Tim Kardok. 
March. Field events will get un­A surplus of long and middle Sophomore Mike Meyer will derway at 7:00 p.m. distance runners gives first-year Notre Dame head coach Joe Piane the foundation needed to field a 
ND swimmers host BG
strong team in 1976. Senior 
co-captain Jim Hurt and fellow 
This Friday the Notre Dame ing Green's strength will lie in the
senior, Joe Yates, have both run a Swimming team swings back into distance events where Dave Ryland 4:09 mile and are hopeful of action after almost a six-week heads the list. Ryland captured twoimproving their times. Freshman layoff as it hosts Bowling Green at firsts, and placing three times inSteve Welch performed admirably 4:00p.m. at the Rockne Memorial in
on the cross country team this past all. These two firsts came the 
Pool. distance freestyle and the butter­fall along with junior Jim Reinhart. 
Coach Dennis Stark and his fly, a fact that points to theRounding out the list of long swimmers bring a one and two versatility of this Irish opponent.
distance runners are Dan Horgan, record into 1976 after some rough Green
Dennis Vanderkraats and Jay Mir­Bowling also has two 
going in the early part of the top-notch divers who will pose aanda. Leading the way in the season. The team was able to threat to this year's Irish dominat­middle distance events will be practice in Florida over the vacat­ion of both boards. Kurt Seibenickthree freshmen in Dave Benkert, and Irish to was good enough to compete in theMike Rice and Gerry Wills. ion the are hoping capitalize on this extra work. NCAAs last year along with Notre Stmior Mike Hogan, the other bowling Green has many of its Dame's Bob Ebel and Jed Cole co-captain, holds the current Notre lettermen returning and will · be ·notched a first place in the one ­Dame indoor pole vault record of looking to avenge a 59-54 victory meter event last year. 
15'6". He is espected to clear 16' that kept the Notre Dame unde­Admission to the meet will be this year. Joining Hogan as pole feated string alive last year. Bowl-free and open to the public. 






