

In drug raid 
ND students arreste 
by Maureen Flynn 
Three Notre Dame students were among 17 arrested early yesterday morning in a series of drug raids coordinated by police officials of South Bend, 
St. Joseph  County,  Mishawaka and the state  of  
Indiana.  
Arrested  for  possession  and  delivery  of  a  

cJntrolled substance were senior Christopher Can­non, junior Thomas Flynn and sophomore Michael Kohlmiller, all of 707 West Colfax. The arrests were made at their home at approximately 6: IS a.m. 
Kohl miller is charged with delivering 4.326 grams of amphetamines to a police agent on Jan. 30, 1976. Hail was set at $25,000. 
Flynn's bond has been set at $10,000. HE has :1een charged with delivering 23 grams of marijuana md 0.125 grams of amphetamines to a police agent ·m Jan. 25. 1976. 
Cannon is charged with delivering 6.517 grams of amphetamines to a police agent on Feb. 5, 1976. His bond was set at $25,000. 
All three sales were allegedly conducted at the st•.dent's home. According to the County Prosecutor's office, an arraignment date has not yet been set. 
The Notre Dame community was first informed of the activities of undercover narcotics agents in an Observer story March 10. Dean of Students James 
Roemer disclosed at that time that local 
enforcement agencies were planning to 
affadavits for the arrest of students involved in the 
campus drug traffic. Roemer said then that the 
agents were working entirely on their own 
received no help from the University personnel in 
the drug investigations. 
In an Observer article last Friday, 
revealed that the undercover agents had not been 
working on campus. He added, however, 
cooperate with authorities 100 percent if informed 
that authorities know students are selling drugs on 
campus." 
Roemer said then that undercover agents, usually 
new recruits on the force who are not known as law 
officers, patrol local bars where they blend in with 
college students. 
Roemer stated in that interview that he would not 
help students arrested for drug violations, but that 
he would not "do anything to prejudice 
student's pending case." 
Roemer added that he would not expell a student 
until he had been tried and that he would then abide 
by the court's decision. 
The dean of students could not be yesterday for information concerning the students' status pending trial. 
The sale of narcotics is a felony punishable by state imprisonment. If convicted, the students may face possible prison sentences of from one years. 

untversdy ol notre dome st mary's collegeVol. X, No. 112 Friday, April 2, 1976 
Gassman replaces Byrne 
.I:~·~ 


11'll\N£ IODYI 
AVE ET VALE: The innauguration of Mike Gassman as SBP and Mike Casey as SBVP took place on a lightheartednoteyesterday afternoon. 
In the series above, the new SBP waste no time removing his predecessor's name from beside the office door. Gassman then wishes the ex-SBP good luck in life and pin a new name beside the office now his. 
Next came the swearing in. Judicial coordina­tor John Lonsberg administers the oath as Mr. Byrne bids a euphoric farewell. 
While not necessarily reminding Mr. Gassman that "The Paths of Glory lead but to the grave" or that "Stormy waters run shallow," the Observer wishes Mike Gassman et al a productive year in student government. [photos by Chris Smith] 
1 

tuition to increase 
by Karen Hlnks Staff Reporter 
Room and board will increase by 
$125.000 and tuition by $150.00 at 
St.Mary's next fall, according to 
Mr. Leslie Hitchcock, chief accoun 
tant for St. Mary's. 
The increases are due to the 
rising costs in fuel and electricity 
which are the college's largest 
expenditures explained Hitchcock. 
"We are trying to step up the conservation of heat and electricity by installing thermostats in various buildings on campus, but the cost of fuel and electricity have in­creased, so we must raise the cost of room and board," commented Hitchcock. He also said the costs ahve lagged over the past year and compensation must be made for this. "We're sorry that we have to do this, but we feel it is necessary in order in maintain the quality of education at St. Mary's," said Sr. Rose Marie Canty, vice-president of Fiscal Affairs. 
The Board for Fiscal Affairs surveyed private institutions that St. Mary's students had applied to according to Canty. The board determined from the survey that St. Mary's had the lowest rate of increase. The 1974-75 room and board was increased S150.00 and tuition was increased $100.00, making the total increase $250.<>q 

Carter coming to NO 
by Phil Cackley Senior Staff Reporter 

Gov. Jimmy Carter, Democratic frontrunner for the presidential 
nomination will speak at 4:30p.m. next Tuesday, April 6 in Stepan 
Center, announced Paul Faldupo, student spokesman for Cart~r 
yesterday. 
The visit is part of a campaign swing by Carter through Indiana be.fore h.e travels to Wisconsin the same night for the April 6 pnmary m that state. Carter's address is open to all members of the Notre :Dame and South Bend communities . . Faldupo andCarterwill fly to South Bend from Indianapolis early m the afternoon and make a number of stops in South Bend. He will speak at Stepan Center at 4:30 and then fly to Wisconsin around 6 p.m. that evening. 
Carter's visit is being sponsored by the Student Union Academic Commission, although commissioner Dennis Pijor remarked that Carter had asked to come to Notre Dame . 
"We tried but failed to get Carter and many other Democratic candidates earlier in the year for the Mock Convention or just for a speaking engagement. But it's hard f:J'r them to come ~hen they're campaigning elsewhere," Pijor said. 
I(continued on page 8) . 


board, 
as opposed to next year's $275.00. 
The increase in tuition, ac­cording to Canty, was due in part to the increase not only in faculties salary, but the staffs' as well. "The minimum wage has been increased and St. Mary's must comply with it," said Canty. "The faculty is entitled to just wages. Just as the cost of living has gone up, the faculty must be able to meet the standard of living." 
Students seemed negative about the increase. One student stated, ''The increase inadvertently effects me because my parents are finan­cing my education, and they re­mind me of the fact often." 
A St. Mary's junior fePls that the increase is bad. "No matter what we say or do, there will be no change. The tuition and room and board will continue to increase. The only way the situation can be 
changed is  if parents  say  some­ 
thing."  
Another  St.  Mary's  student  

asked, "Why is there an increse when meals are poor, and the roof in the dorm leaks?" 
Two sophomores felt that the food is getting increasingly worse each day an that they have seen no major improvements in room condi­tions to warrant an increase. Other Istudents felt that if prices are raised, parents and students should be given a statement speci­fying the allocation of expenses. 

Friday, April 2, 1976
the observer 
Creator of Spiderman 
,.---News Briefs--........ 
~=================Nationru 
The ultimate sin 
Hollywood, Fla. AP-An unwed 22-year-old student expelled from Florida Bible College for "the ultimate sin" after she became pregnant is suing the college to be allowed to complete her Bible studies. 
Deborah Jean Clayton, a candidate for a four-year bachelor of arts degree in Biblical education was six weeks away from graduation. 
a-On Campus Today--.-~ 
friday, april 2 
10 am-­
12:15 
pm-­

12:15 
pm-­


2 pm-­2·lO pm-­
5:15 pm-­


1.·~:::. 
·lm-­
tO pm­1 am-­
10 pm­1 am-­
12 am-­
jung wnference, "on jung and our times" by laurens van der post, london and south africa, cce. 
mass, Iafortune ballroom. 
travelogue, "woods hole: its science and people" by joan and ken tweedell, sponsored by biology dept., room 278 galvin aud. 
tennis, de paul university at n.d. 
jung conference, col. van der post talks about his work as writer and film-maker and introduces his film "the story of e.g. jung", cce. 
mass and dinner, bulla shed. 
film, "the eiger sanction" sponsored by student union, eng. aud., $1. 
festival, collegiate jazz festival, $3 or & $7 for all sessions, stepan center. 
jung conference, "col. van der post introduces his tdm 'a region of shadow' and his new film made for bbc-tv, 'all africa within us', american premiere, cce. 
smc coffeehouse, 10-bill mahn, 11-mike Ia valle, joe kelly and pat cuneo. 
nazz, 10-rex delcamp, mike tsubota, anne moriarty mike blanford, 11-rick walters, 12-al tkaczuk, david trohuska. 
album hour, wsnd 640 am. 
12:15 am--nocturne night flight, wsnd 88.9 fm, the best in progressive rock, jazz and blues, tonight's host; joe 
VIOla. 
saturday, april 3 
10 am--jung conference, "on psychology and literature" by joyce carol oates, windsor, cce. 
12:30 pm festival, collegiate jazz festival, $2 afternoon and $4.50 
& 7 pm-­evening, stepan center. 
1:30 prn--jung conference, "women and psychology", panel and open forum with sr. madonna kolbenschlag, n.d., carol rupprecht, kirkland college; naomi goldberg, new haven, cce. 
2 pm--weapons practice, sea, fieldhouse. 
7,9 & 11 :Jm-­ film, "the eiger sanction", union, end aud., $1.  sponsored by  student  
7 pm-­ sea meeting, Iafortune center.  
7 pm-­ jung conference, robert bly, minnesota, "his poetry and jung. a talk, a reading, a happening.", cce.  

7:30pm--speaker, dwight johnson, "some together in his name" sponsored by campus christian k organizations discussion following lecture, refreshments, lewis r~ room. 
12 am--album hour, 640 am. 
12:15 am--nocturne night flight, wsnd 88.9 fm, the best in 
progressive rock, jazz and blues, tonight's host: jorge lopez. 
sunday, april 4 
10 am-­2 pm-­
8& 
10 pm-­
8:15 pm-­12 am-­
jung conference, "on jung and religion" by thomas ki:tpacinskas, n.d., cce. 
jung conference, "a word or two before you go" with available speakers, cce. 
film, "dty lights," sponsored by cultural arts comm., eng. aud., $1. 
recital, senior organ recital with rick ramirez, sponsored by the music dept., sacred heart church. 
album hour, wsnd 640 am. 
12:15 am--nocturne night flight, wsnd 88.9 fm, the. best in progressive rock,.jazz and blues, tonight's host: dave Szymanski. ' 
Comic book writer to speak here 
Stan Lee, publisher of Marvel mmission, the program is open to Comics and creator of such legend­
the public without charge. ary characters as Spiderman, The A popular guest lecturer at Hulk, Fantastic Four, Silver Surfer, 
Harvard, Yale, Princeton, Colum-Dr. Strange and others, will discuss 
bia, Duke and other universities, "Communicating with Young Ad­
Lee has written no less than two ults" at 8 p.m. Monday, AprilS in complete comic magazines per the University of Notre Dame's week for a period of 30 years. Washington Hall. Sponsored by During the same time he has 
the Student Union Academic Co-
written newspaper features, radio 
scripts, special purpose magazines 
and various publications, film str-
No announcement 
ips and screenplays. At the age of 15 he won the N.Y. 
Herald Tribune's "Biggest News of the Week" essay contest for three ARLINGTON HEIGHTS* UI. [API consecutive weeks, and was urged 
on contract talks 
by the editor to consider writing as a career. He took a job with Marvel 
Comics in 1939 as copywriter and assistant to the editor and was shortly promoted to executive ed­itor, art director and head writer, positions he held until 1972 when he was named publisher. 
Lee's concepts have been cred­ited with revolutionizing the comic book industry by introducing a new theme--tales of superheroes which are both realistic and relevant. He has brought new life to such long-abandoned characters as Ca­pt. Marvel, the Human Torch, 
Captain America and Submariner. 

Talks aimed at ending the day-old 1P-Millllllilll___ra_________..~--------. nationwide Teamsters union strike 1 
recessed early Friday morning with no announcement of progress. 
Federal officials said the negotia­tionson a new national master contract would resume later in the day. 
Charles Caldwell, special assist­ant to Labor Secretary W. J. Usery Jr., said negotiators were "still trying to reach an agreement' to resolve the strike that could paral­yze the nation's commerce. 
Caldwell said he could not com­ment on the talks' progress, but that Usery had booked no return flights to. Washington for Friday and would remain in the Chicago area. 
President Ford's top labor trou­ble shooter had stayed at the bargaining table all day and night Thursday. During the day. he main•ained close contact with Ford by telephnne. 
(%TQ_e Observer1 
Night Editor: Tom O'Neil Associate: Paul Schappler Layout: We wish you would have showed up Copy Reader Jack D' Aurora and Don Reimer 
Day Editor; Kathy McEntee ·d introducing Sue Ballman wrials; Pat Hanifin t-eatures; Tim O'Reily Sports: Bob Brink 
Typists: Camille Arrieh or whatever Night Controllers: Martha 
l~~7;ing with relief by J. CJ 
The Observer is published N\onday through Friday and ~kly during the sumner session, except during the exam; Clld vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of the l.Jniv. of Notre Darre and St. M.ary's College. Subsa'iptions may be pun:tlased for S18 ($10 per semesterl froTI The Observer, Box Q, Notre Darre, lndiCila 46556. Second Class postage paid, Notre Dame, IN 46556. 
THE BEATLES 


AWAY WITH WORDS 
6 UNFORGETTABLE PERFORMANCES 
9 u 
MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM $

32 
SATURDAY SUNDAYAPRIL 34•  375'  
Performmes 11 6, 8 & 10 p. m.  
EACH IIIGHT  AT  
MORRIS  BOX OFFICE  -BOGGlE REC!JlDS  THE  
(SUSPENDED CORD) Elkhart and Gos'1en  DOOR  

(JUST FOR THE RECORD AND THE REC. JOINT) Niles 


$5 
&:OO
10:00& p.m. 
$350 
s:oo P· m. 
ADVANCE TICKETS ADVANCE TICKETS 
t •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••. 
! COLLEGE EDUCATION ~ 
~ 
~ 
!* 
: : 

!* ! * 
* ~ * 
*
* 
*
* 
* 

corner of Logan and Jefferson ~ FINEST !* 24 HOUR RESTAURANT : IN MICHIANA i 
catering to !* ND-SMC LATE NIGHT NEEDS ! 
FEATURING COLLEGIATE SPECIAL· !* "JACK OMELET" * 
* 

. * 
Daily Lunch Special Hamburgers * * 
* 




---THE-lathANNUALNOTREDAME--1 
COLLEGIATE JAZZ FESTIVAL t 
t STEPAN CENTER t 
t t 
t FRIDAY, APRIL 2 SATURDAY, APRIL 3 t 
2 30
t = -4:30 Syposium in New Music Building 12 :30 Wastanaw College Big Band f 
! BREAKFAST SERVED ANYTIME·:
* . . . 
*••·········!f····*·················· 
.t 7:30 Notre Dame Big Band 
8:10 Moses of I. U. Indiana Combo
6 
' ~:50 Oakland University Big Bandt 9:30 Notre Dame Combo 
10:10 Northwestern Big Bandt 10:50 Fredonia State Jazz Band t Tickets are available at 
a 
' the door, Student Union
t
t Ticket Office, and local outlets.
t 
t 
t 
t FESTIVAl PASS $6.00
f 
1:1 o Western Michigan Big Band t 
1:50 Ohio State Combo t 
2:30 Kent State Big Band 
3:10 MIT Quintet t
t 
7:00 High School Jazz Band Winners t 
8:00 Governors State Big Band t 
8:40 University of Illinois Big Band 
9:20 Chicago State Jazz Combo t 
10:00 Indiana University Big Band t 
10:40 Northwestern University Combo ' 
11 
:20 a special performance of the f Eastman School of Music t Jazz Ensemble with Lew Soloff 

12 
:30 Awarding of Prizes ~ 



-----------------------------J~~-.~~t_N~~~~_._.AJ!~~~~2£-.~~~~~~~~0~f 
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 

--~~------­
Gassman names cabinet 
by Nancy Amatruda Staff Reporter 
Student Body President Mike Gassman has named six of the ten commissioners to assist him in his cabinet. Gassman made the choic­es on the basis of recommendations from others and past experience. 
A three-year veteran of Student Govcrnmcr;t, Vinnie Moschella was named Executive Coordinator. He will he acting as an organizer and udvi!-.or, coordinating Student Gov­l'rnmcnt uctivities with those of other groups. 
The trea!>urcr is an ueeounting major, Eric Ryan. Ryu.n was a!-.sistant to the treasurer thrs year. 
Pat Tack is the academic com­mrs~roner. She is one of five undcrgraduutc members of the Academic Council. She will need an as!-.istant and a stall. Anyone interested can apply in the Student Government ofticcs on the second tloor of l.uFortunc. Tack was president of lewis Hall this year. 
Bridget O'Donnell wus selected bv the Ombudsman steering com­
• ~,'-1 
MOSCHELLA 
Udall battles for ln. primary 
INDIANAPOLIS lAP! Attorneys for lkp. Morl'is K. Udall will seck an emergency stay hom the U. S. Supreme Court to get the Arizona Dcrnocrul on the Mav Indiana presidL•ntial primary ballot. 
R. Davy Eaglesliclct Ill of the Indiana Civil Liberties Union. which is representing Udall, said 
the  slay  pending  a  full  appeal  
would  be  requested  early  next  
week  from  .Justice  John  Paul  
Stevens.  

Stevens. recently appointed to the high court to replace the retired William 0. Douglas. handles emer­gency issues from the U. S. 7th Circuit Court of Appeals. 
A three-judge federal panel refused Wednesday to order Udall onto the Indiana ballot. dismissing his suit that challenged the consti­tutionality of the requirement that a candidate have signatures of 500 voters in each of the state's II congressional districts. Udall acci­dentally filed only 465 signatures in the 6th district. 
Eaglcsdiclf said no decision from the high court was expected for a week and a half. He said it already was too late to get Udall's name on absentee ballots. which by law must be distributed this Sunday, but he said attorneys hoped to get his name on electronic voting machines. 
Four Democrats arc on the presidential ballot-Jimmy Carter. Washington Sen. Henry M. Jack­son. Alabama Gov. George C. Wallace and anti-abortion candid­ate Ellen McCormack. President Ford and Ronald Reagan arc on the Republican ballot. 
The Indiana primary will appor­tion delegates bound on the first ballot at this summer's national political conventions. 

TACK 
mittcc as head of their organiza­tion. A junior. she has been a member of the group for three years. · The position of special projects commissioner is new. Gassman has chosen Tom Soma. a freshman who actively petitioned for the calendar revision, for this post. Soma will head a number of divisions designed to investigate various services such as laundry and mail. Stat'f positions arc still 
Nazz 'deli' is open
open. and applications arc avail­able. 
by Barb LanghenryThe student lobby commissioner Staff reporteris .Jerry Klingcnb~rgcr. and his assistant is Buzz Reynolds. Kling­

last night the Nazz "deli" opened its doors for the first time. cnherger assisted Tom Black this 
Several hungry people, who were anxious to savor the delights of a year in the student lobby. 
"Nazzwich" and listen to the tunes of the "Fried of the Devil" · Ken Girouard was appointed GIROUARD 
band, were on hand." press secretary. another new post. off-campus life. Gassman wants 
The deli, located in the basement of LaFortune, •s an He will work to keep the student more organization in this depart­
experimental product of the Social Space Committee of the Student body informed. Girouard was ment. He anticipates more unity 
Life Council. It will be open through April and will then be foniJCrly news editor of The Obser­with campus life and increased 
assessed to determine its future life. ver. services for off-campus students. 
The deli menu, which is served by waitresses, includes hot Gassman has not yet decided on The Hall Presidents' Council 
sandwiches, specially featuring the "Nazzwich" which is a the judicial coordinator or off-cam­representative will be the council's 
sandwich sold by the inch, assorted beverages and snacks. pus commissioner. The judicial executive coordinator and has not 
The Social Space Committee made the deli arrangements coordinator will aim at getting hall yet been chosen. A St. Mary's 
together with the Huddle. Kevin Wallace, assistant manager of the .!-boards more responsibility in representative is a new addition. 
Huddle stated that the committee said they would bring the people if the Huddle provided the food service.
dealing with such violations as and will be a joint choice of the two alcohol and parictals. governments. This office will 
Wallace continued saying that it can also be considered a The off-campus commissioner facilitate more activities between 
suppliment to the Huddle. The sandwiches in the deli are exclusive applicants should he familiar with the two governments. 
to the deli. "We are trying to provide a place where students can go and get something different from the Huddle," he added. Dr. A.L. Gabariel, a customer who stated he never misses the 
..__~ opening of anything, expressed his pleasure by commenting that
r I he liked the idea because it reminded him of his younger days at SUNDAYMASSES I Princeton. Other customers stated that the atmosphere is nice and
I 
(Main Church) they would encourage others to try it.I Patronage was slow for the first hour but from about 10 p.m. ib McNall C S C I the restaurant had a moderate amount of customers remaining
5·.15 p.m. Saturday Rev. Thomas y, · · · 1 h If h
I about a full the entire nig t. 
9:30 a.m. Stmday Rev. Richard Conyers, C.S.C. I The deli serves food from 9 p.m. to midnight and provides liveI 10:45 a.m. Stmday Rev. John S. Dunne, C.S.C. entertainment from 10 p.m. to midnight every Wednesday through
1 12:15 p.m. Stmday Rev. William Toohey, C.S.C. ILs_a_tu_r_d_ay_.____________________, 
I Evensong will be at 4 :30 in l.ady Chapel. 1 This week Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C. II will be the homilist. 


~----------------J 
:• • 
As a college sophomore, you may be eligible


J*Observer 
for a tuition-paid Navy ROTC Scholarship through your junior and senior years. The Naval Reserve Officers Training Corps has a special 2-year college program for sophomores

: Chess Tournament 
that helps you financially and helps you get started on a challenging and rewarding career. 
In addition to full tuition, the Navy ROTC
••+ April 3rd&4th 
Scholarship pays for all books and fees, and pays you $100 a month living allowance.
+ in the base1nent of LaFortune 
To qualify, you must have completed one semester each of calculus and physics, or two 
• Sign up in the Observer office (Jrd floor of LaFortune)
• 
semesters of calculus. Don't pass up this oppor­tunity to start shaping your future today! For 
• Entry Fee $2.00 Prizes and trophies awarded 
more information, contact: 
Lt. Bob Nelson

:-~......Z~Ibllt.~~~ 
t-or more mformation call 
• ~ . john Newcomer 272-1913 
NROTC Unit 283-6442
I

ti....~;..Ji~m~a>St..ev"e~na>s .<Ill..,.. 

; f, 

the observer 
Success of restructured J-boards evaluated 
by Jim Flahaven staff reporter 
The Hall Judicial Boards were restructured last October, and now after one semester their effective­ness has been both criticized and praised. 
Elton Johnson, chairman of the Hall President's Council stated, "even with all the work done by Student Government to revise hall J-boards, the boards have not been used anymore than in the previous semester." "In fact," Johnson added "I wouldn't be surprised if they are used less than in the past." 
Lebanese christians & moslems agree to 10-day cease fire 
BEIRUT.Lebanon Moslems and Christitan agreed yesterday to a I 0-day cease-fire in Lebanon's civil war. with gunmen from both sides to remain in place throughout the country. 
The truce, to begin at noon today -5:00a.m. EST was announced after intense international pressure, 
mainly from Syria and the Palesti­nian guerillas, but with help from Jordan and the United States. 
If it actually takes place, the cease-fire will be the 20th in the war. which has claimed about 
14.000 lives since it broke out last April 14. Another 125 died yesterday before the truce was announced. 
All previous cease-fires broke down because there was no basic 
Yesterday's temperatures across the U·S· 
Albany Albu'que Atlanta Birmingham Bismarck Boston 
Chicago Cincinnati Cleveland Denver Des Moines Detroit Duluth Fairbanks Forth Worth Green Bay Houston 
Indianapolis JacksonviUe Juneau Kansas City Las Vegas Li_ttle
1 
Los Angeles 
Louisville Marquette Miami Memphis Milwaukee Minneapolis New Orleans New York Okla. City Omaha Orlando Philadelphia Phoenix Pittsburgh Portland, ME Portland,OR Rapid City Richmond St. Louis Salt Lake City San Diego San Francisco Seattle Spokane Tampa Washington 
........ . 
'' 
, " " r • ~ " " • ' .. " , ., " , , , ' • ' • 
John Lonsberg, judicial coordin­ator under the Byrne administra­tion, asserts that Johnson is mis­taken. "We have taken two surveys already," said Lonsberg, "and they show indisputedly that the hall J -boards meet.'' Lonsberg said surveys show each J-board, on the average, meets twice a seme­ster. 
Lonsberg, who officially left his post as judie ial coordinator yesterday headed the re-structuring program last October. According to Lonsberg, when he and co-committee member Mary Ellen Keenan began only five halls had active judicial boards. Now all halls except St. Joseph's have J-boards. 
agreement satisfying demands by 
the Moslem majority for more 
power in the Christian-dominated 
Lebanese political system. 
The latest truce was offered by leftist Moslem leader Kamal Jun­blatt to permit election of a new president. A spokesman for the right-wing Phalange party, the Christians' main fighting arm, said it would observe the cease-fire. 
However, there was no immedi­ate from Christian President Sulci­man Franjieh' s office on whether he would agree to resign. 
The cease-tire was designed to give him a 10-day period to step down but was not contingent on his immediate resignation. 
Acceptance by the Phalange party, Franjieh's chief political and 
'f'l 
44 74 33 62 35 66 43 75 37 
56 35 42 37 47 34 42 31 70 34 60 31 44 34 49 22 40 12 
75 40 47 37 79 46 
43 36 74 53 37 33 64 32 
< 77 56 69 47 68 49 57 41 
34 29 79 72 67 46 43 34 58 26 74 40 56 44 73 34 69 26 78 63 61 47 86 so 46 38 44 37 51 32 78 33 67 48 59 37 68 47 66 57 56 43 46 32 36 30 78 66 62 44 
. '.' 
' , • I I ,I •' ,,-•.' ,' .I ,' ,; ..: ,1 0' 0 L' .... ' . . "· .... 
Farley hall was one of those halls that did not previously have a J-board. Farley hall president Donna Crowly says of the board, "It exists but has never had to meet in session yet.'' Crawly added that it did serve a purpose though, "It seems to be what we need, in the sense that it is an option. The girls were elected, not appointed, so they are objective. In 
that way it's good." 
Ivan Brown, president of Holy Cross hall agreed. Brown stated, "Our J-board has never been used to my knowledge, except to run the hall president's election." But, Brown added "just the fact it is another option open is important.'' 
Brown, and Presidents Jay No­
militray buttress, did not specifical­ly include agreement to the presi­dent's departure and omitted refer­
ence  to  it in reporting  the  leftist  
cease-fire offer.  
The  truce  in  Beirut  would  be  

enforced by local garrison troops. They are commanded by Brig. Aziz Ahdab. leader of a March ll coup declared to force Franjieh's resig­nation. 
The peacekeepin force presum­ably will include elements of the Palestinian guerilla's troops from the regular Palestine Liberation Army-PLA. 
In the last 10 days. Moslen leftist gunmen have scored key military victories that gave them a position of strength in any negotiations. But even should the truce bring Franjieh' s resignation. the two si<1es remain separated by a chasm of p<1litical differnces. 
Franjieh, 65, has stubbornly clung l0 office throughout three weeks ot intensive leftist pressure during which his departure has become a Moslem condition for any political soluti0n. 
There havt: been un official reports that he is prepared to step down if this can te done constitu­tionally. 
Agreement has become even more difficult as Moslem forces neared apparent victory and Jun­blatt escalated his demands to include abolishing the traditional allocation of government posts according to religion. The unwrit­ten but inviolable tradition gives the presidency, the army command and an automatic parliamentary majority to the country's 40 per cent Christian minority. 
-: 7 . I .
.................... .: 
Man in the City: Confronting 
the A~nerican Dreain 
All shows : 8 & 10, except "West Side Story"-7 & 10 
Sunday., April 4 ''City Lights'' 
directed by and starring Charlie Chaplin 
Monday., April 5 ''Dead End'' Tuesday., April 6 
''West Side Story'' 

Wednesday., April 7 

''Mickey One'' 

Friday., April 9 

''Midnight Cowboy'' 

wak of Alumni and Bob Waddick of Fisher all pointed out a tendency for students to still prefer the hall rector to the J-boards. Lonsberg replied that confidence is needed in the J-boards, and that confidence will come in time. Lonsberg emphasized the chairpersons of the 

Engineering Auditorium

presents: 
Admission $1.00 
various hall judicial boards have already done an outstanding job in bulding up that confidence. 
Both Lonsberg and Johnson felt further restructuring of the Univ­ersity Judicial Board would be necessary for the long range succ­ess of the Hall Judicial Boards. 


the observer 



Two bomb scares threaten ND students, 
by Jim Commyn Staff Reporter 
Early afternoon classes in the College of Business were suspend­ed yesterday while Notre Dame security and officials of the college made an extensive search for a bomb believed to be hidden some­where in the business complex. 
In a separate incident. Lewis Hall was also threatened by a similar, but apparently unrelated, bomb­scare early Thrusday morning. 
This is the second time this semester that the College of Busi­ness has been threatened. It is also the second bomb-scare for a resi­dence hall this year. 
According to Lewis residents, an unidentified male called and notifi­ed them that bomb would go off at 2:55a.m. The call was received by a Lewis resident on a phone located out~idc the Lewis lobby. The call came at about I :30 a.m. Rcctrcss Sallv Dullv was notified immcdia­tclv· and securitv was summoned. 
bircctor of Sc~urity Arthur Pears arrived at Lewis, followed shortly by Dean of Students James Roe­mer. Roemer and Pears. alson with hall staff members. conducted a thorough search of all the public areas of the building. Security also extensively searched areas outside the dormitory. Residents still awake were told to lock themselves in their rooms and not come out for at least an hour. 
Duffy explained why the building was not evacuated. "Basically, Lewis is a very secure structure," she said. duffy stated that all the locks in the dormitory had been changed in January and that keys arc necessary to enter the building at any time. A security guard is on duty each evening beginning at II p.m. 
"Roemer was the first to suggest that the public areas by searched." Duffy stated. "He felt that these areas would be the most familiar to any outsiders. These are the only areas accessible to them because kcvs arc also needed to gain cnirancc to the individual rooms 

A crowd gathered outside Hayes Healy during the bomb scare. [photo by Chris Smith] 
UVU!b 
RING 
1-7 birthstones 
Setting in 14K gold Illustration enlarged to show detail Allow approKimately 2 weeks for delivery 

IN SOUTH BEND SHOP AT GORDON'S 

Ireland and Miami Streets 
3-2-06-12 
and the elevator." 
Duffy continued, stating that the 
anonymous call never said whether 
the bomb was supposedly located 
inside or outside the building. 
"The detonation time was hinted 
byt the caller to be 2:55,'' she said. 
"It could have gone off earlier, 
while. the evacuation was in pro­
gress, injuring many more resi­
dents than were actually awake at 
the time." 
The rectress also added that if 
the bomb had been outside the 
building and the dormitory com­
pletely evacuated, the evacuation 
would have endangered the resi­
dents even more, rather than 
providing safety for them. "There 
arc also other problems in evacua­
ting 290 women smoothly at that 
hour of the morning.'' she conclud­
ed. 
"The decision was not an easy one," Duffy stated, as she com­mended her staff for their help and 
assistance throughout the entire incident. She added that felt that Roemer and Pears could have controlled the operation by phone. ·"I was encouraged when they showed up in person," she said. 
A Lewis RA added that if in their search "anything suspicious was discovered, we were not to touch it, but to report it immediately to security." 
Whe.n no apparent bomb was discovered by 4 a.m., the staff 

3 LOCATIONS TO SERVE YOU 
710 W. McKINLEY AVE.-MISHAWAKA (Town & Cour:~try Shopping Center) 1702 S. MICHIGAN -SOUTH BEND 1807 LINCOLNWAY EAST -SOUTH BEN 

retired for the night. Security 
patrolled the building and grounds 
surrounding it for the remainder of 
the evening, residents stated. 
The Business College evacuation 
was initiated when the dean's 
secretary received an anonymous 
call at noon. saying that a bomb 
would go off between I and 2 p.m. 
that afternoon.. Assistant Dean 
Vincent Raymond cancelled all I: IS 
classes. No other overt action was 
taken until the morning classes had 
adjourned for lunch. The complex 
was completely searched and stu­
dents were not allowed to enter. 
Classes resumed at 2:45 p.m. 
One business professor stated that a real tragedy in such scares as this is that a nmber of threats could con::civably cancel a percentage of semester work. ·'The time can't be recovered." he stated. He noted student reaction was more hostile towarrJ class disruption and cancel­lation during this scare, despite the fact that some tests were scheduled for I: IS. "I think students realized the monetary loss involved, as far as education is concerned, in today's incident," he said. 
Pears stated that both came from off-campus and security is investi­gating any and all leads. He added that any calls made on campus can be traced if the person receiving a call does not hang up the phone once the call is finished. 
"Past history has shown that 
these scares have been false, but 
we can't just assume they arc 
false," Pears said. "We must 
make an overt act to check and 
satisfy ourselves." 
Roemer was unavailable for com­ment on yesterday's incidents. However, in an interview with The Observer following the first threat to the business college, Roemer stated, ''The caller will immediate­ly separated from the community" if he is a student and apprehended. 

--~ 
2 I ,_. .. ...... . I 

irish buII !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
*~d.Q!?,~~rver
Founded November 3, 1966 
The Observer is published by students of the University of Notre Dame and EDITORIAl BOARD St. Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the poliCies of either Thomas O'Neil Editor-in-Chief mstitution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Dan Sanchez Managing Editor Editorials represent the opinion or a maJonty of the .f:dltonal Board. Gregg Bangs Executive Editor Commentaries are the views of md1v1dual editors. Opinions, cartoons and Val zurblis Executive Editor regular columns express the views of their authors. Column space IS Pat Hanifin Editorial Editor available to all members of the community.. and letters are encouraged to Bob Mader Executive News Editor promote the free expression of varying opmlons on campus. Maureen Flynn Campus Editor 
Marti Hogan St. Mary's Editor Don Reimer Copy Editor News 283-8661 Busmess: 283-7471 Ed;torials 283-1715 Tim 0' Reiley Features Editor Fred Herbst Sports Editor Advertising Manager Tom Whelan Mary Egan Contributing Editor
Busint>ss Manager Tom Modglin 
Friday, April 2, 1976 





P.O. Box Q 
Skin Deep 

iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiipau/ starkey 
Obie sat back in the green cushions and lined his arms even with the cool wooden appendages of the chair. He placed his fingers in the drilled holes at the ends of each arm and pulled--plip! plip! plip! The sucking sound of air filled him with joy--one of the few joys he felt anymore. It was just about over now. This final semester had passed with the rapidity of flipped pages--and how many pages had he flipped in the course of four years! Four years. Plip I Plip! The sound comforted him like a light rhyme. "Four Years!" he sighed, half-aloud. 
Casey looked up, slightly agitated. An archipelago of notecards dotted the red sea of rug at his feet. A ziggurat of stacked books rested beside him on the day-bed. "You say something?" 
"Huh?" Obie pulled out of his premature fit of nostalgia. "Oh, 
yeah. I just said four years." "Till what?" Casey suspected dreams of gavels and leather-
bound law books. "No. I mean it's been four years." "So?" ··~o," Ubie continued, "where'd it all go? Four years and now, 
it's all over. Think, in six weeks, you and I will be alumni!" 
"Yeah," Casey lau2hed, "and unemployed." · Ca~ey, eyes downcase, slowly turned the chunky circle of NO-monogrammed gold on his right hand. Finally, he looked up-with the most sincere expression that Obie had ever seen and said, "You know what hurts the most? I mean the most?" Casey moved right ahead without a reply. "I haven't got much to show for it! Oh, sure, there were good times--great times! But really, I need something more. I think of all the recognition that's floating around--PBK keys, scholarships abroad, full rides to grad school, jobs starting at sixteen thou, trophies, pins, certificates, plaques--endless awards! Somewhere, you'd t~i.nk, in all that, there'd be something for me, some small recogmtton. 
"Yeah," Obie, too, felt left out, "You come here as the "big fish" from high school and leave this place feeling like a tuna. I wanted to graduate at least cum laude, and now, with this sixty-pager still due, I'm making Grotto trips just so I'll get out cum degree. Damn, we don't even graduate with a handshake from the President." "Maybe you could touch his robe," Casey wryly suggested. "Obie," he added pensively, I think I'm bitter." 
"You up for a cup?" Obie wanted to change the moo?··· 
...Stirring two cups of Huddle coffee, Casey and Obte sat at a table at Darbv's-and moped. After a long while, Casey smiled, fumbled in his change pocket, and pulled out a single penny. "Here," he said, placing it on the table, "is a start!" 
Obie surprised laughed. "Hey you shouldn't flash around that kind of money! W11nt to get us mugged!" "Take it. It's yours!" Casey urged, serious now. 
"I 
"I'll cherish it," Obie insisted, still smiling, but sensing Casey'shere. However, I consider barbar­one of the worst examples of strange mood.
ism (I refer principally to torture as responsible journalism that I've
Reiects Latin "Obie," Casey You can be ugly!"
breathed, "Don't you see? 

a policy of state) to be unacceptable read in the Observer to date. 
"So abuse me!"
and unjustifiable under any circum­Mr. Brink mentioned the fact "No. No. I mean you can be Ugly Man!" 
stances. If the armed forces desire that he has read the graffiti on the Obie, wounded, then angry, shot back, "What do you mean,
Barbarism to save the country from corrup­walls of the South Bend bus depot. 'ugly man'! You're no beauty yourself," and he added, "giraffe
tion, I suggest that they proceed in That's fine. but I don't believe it is neck!" 
a civilized way. If their goal is relevant to the NCAA tourney. 
"Aw, Obie baby, listen! You got me wrong. I mean you couldDear Editor: democracy and justice as they Mr. Brink also stated that, "The win the Ugly Man on Campus contest. Recognition, Obieclaim (which I doubt) let them set men's room may be a fitting place recognition.!''
Mr. Fauria disagrees with some an example within their own ranks. for anything from Indiana ... " and "An honor?" Obie was not at all sure.
of my statements on Argentina. 
I am convinced that the military is "I hate to give credit to anything "Sure! A great honor! How many guys can claim it! And theThere is perhaps more agreement no more capable of democratic from Indiana ... " and "The worst competition is tough! In fact, for the past two years, the same guy'sbetween us than his letter indica­government or social justice in a part about it (Indiana University taken it hand down. He lives over in Keenan."
tes. There are a few differences, secular state than was the Church basketball) is having to listen to the "Figures," and Obie felt strangely challenged, almost called.
however. 
in a colonial system. natives boast of their team, but "But what do I do?"
I am not identifying barbarism I admit that barbarism is a shock then, what else does the state "Be yourself--," Casey simply explained, "ugly!" . .
with the Argentine people. Far to me, whether in North or South have." 
Obie, not appreciating the joke, clamped down on a sttrsttx.
from it (in spite of Sarmiento!) My America. I am not "confused" I hope these statements don't "Obe," Casey nudged closer, "this is it. Your chance.
three extended visits to Argentina, about it. I can identify it and I reject include Notre Dame. But then, Recognition! One penny buys one vote, and all your friends will beunder civilian and military reg­it. I dont't agree that Argentina is that's absurd, isn't it? Notre Dame voting for you. People you don't even know, moved by thatimes, convinced me that the Argen­just any other Latin American is in Indiana, not Connecticut or face"--here, Casey, gripping Obie's face in the vise of his hand,tine people have been shortchan­country. Anyone who knows Arg­New York. It always has been and turned it from side to side in display--"will vote in your name.
ged by their leaders. both civilian entina has a right to expect more always will be in Indiana, Mr. 
Pennies, nickels, dimes, dollarsl--all for charity in your name."
and military. In my article, I from it than has been promised so Brink. If this is too much of an "I don't get the money?"
identified barbarism with the mili­far by civilian and military leadet:s. abomination for your nobility. let "No. The money goes for a charitable cause, but you'll receive antary. To be fair. one would have to 
me be the first to apologize to you
Claude Pomerleau, CSC engraved trophy and an all-paid dinner for two."
do ·same with the AAA. guerrillas, 
for Notre Dame forcing you to come 
"And the money goes to charity--that's great!" Obie, excitedfederal policy in several provinces, here. 
now, wanted to know the details. "Give me the details."
and Peronist defense squads. How­
Freedom of the press must be

Hoosier 
ever, I limited myself to the "Easy," started Casev. the week of An Tostal
tempered with responsibility and I 
celebrations, Aphi Phi Omega handles the so-called tallying ofmilitary since they have assumed 
believe the editor-in-chief, sports 
"votes."
political power and responsibility, Defense editor. and Mr. Brink have unfairly "So'unds good. and to Isabel and her colleagues 
neglected this responsibility. The "You'll run then?"
since they have recently lost it Dear Editor: unjustified malicious slander bene­"Oh, sure! 'sounds like being ugly can be a beautiful thing tothrough irresponsibility. I didn't I am writing this letter in fits no one and provides nothing do!"
intend to overwhelm either side response to the article "Who's No. short of an impetus for Indiana "Obie, you're the best!"with compliments. 1?" by Bill Brink which appeared 
University when competing with "Ugly? The candidate wanted to know.
I also doubt that political or in last Friday's Observer. 
Notre Dame.. "Ugly!"
human rights will fare any better I consider Mr. Brink's filler to be Greg Baranko "How 'bout another penny?"
under a military government than they did under recent civilian 
DOONESBURY 

by Garry Trudeau 
governments. I implied in the article that military leaders have done nothing 
C~ON, HOU/113­
in the past to suggest that they are 
IAIWIS IT'S IMffJRJANT! 
less corrupt or more competent 
7HI5-A NOW. HOW MUCH 
than their civilian counterparts. I 
SHAKe­HAVE YOU (JOT 
regret that the Argentine military 
lXJWN? ON YOU? 
will probably try to move the political system in the direction of the Brazilian and Chilean experi­ments, a path of capitalism temper­ed by barbarism. Mr. Fauria sees no problem in taking that path. He believes that such a path is sometimes necessary. I don't. I have no intention of rehabilitating either Rosas or Peron. 
Mr. Fauria accepts military as a necessary evil. No disagreement 


~-~~~-----~---~-­
the observer 

Letters to a Lonely God 
a slight touch of magic magic 


Reverend Robert Griffin 
No king or emperor on this earth has the power of the priest of God. No angel or arL·hangcl in heaven. no saint. not even the Blessed Virgin herself. has the power of a priest of God: the power of the kL·ys. the power to bind and loose from sin. the power of exorcism. the power to cast out from the l'!Taturcs of God the evil spirits that have power over them: the power, the authority. to make the great God Heaven come down upon the altar and take the form of bread and wine. 
JoyL'c' s Portrait 
Thcrl' arc certain metaphysical problems that smart-aleck Catholics school kids used to love to stick the six grade nuns with: "Sister. what would happen if a priest saw a bakery truck lillcd with bread, and just for the fun of it, 'cause the priest was mad at the Church and wanted revenge. he said over all that bread. This is My Body; would that bread really become the Body and Blood of Christ. Sister'!" 
"A priest would have to be sick in the head to do something like that, Johnny," the nun would reply evasively. 
"Well. what if he was sick in the head, Sister," the trouble maker would insist. "What if he said that to a bakerv truck. Or what if he said This is Mv Blood. in front of all the wine bottles on t-he shelves at the A.&P.'! Would it really become the Blood of Christ. Sister'?" . 
The nun would stand there struggling in her mind with the dilemma of the Bishop who would have to send for that truck and lork up thL' pumpernickel in tabernacles, or with her concern for the poor priests forced to drink those gallons upon gallons of l'OnscL·ratcd Mogcn David, revcrc'ntly adoring it on their knees. 
"A priest would have to be out of his mind to do that,'' the nun would repeat; but she wouldn't dare deny that the l'OIIIL'stihles of groceries truc-ks and the potables of the A & P winery. indiscrimin­atl'lv pravcd over and cxtra-curricularly transubstantiated by monks run amok, could turn the Real Presence of the Saviour into objects of adoration that would threaten. the peace of the parish. 
I have heard stories of six grade boys bullying the nuns with questions like that, and of nuns in their reverence who could not sa~· for certain whether the madcap 
pranks of mischievous priests could be as terribly efticacious in their effects as the rituals. of legitimate liturgics. Nuns were always the best supporters of those old myths involving priest's magic. After I was ordained. I remember an old nun who used to call my mother and read her poems about the beautiful hands of a priest. "A priest's hands arc holy hands." the nun used to sav. "They arc the hands of Christ Himself. With ha~ds like that to bless you, Mrs. Griffin ... with hands that have been anointed to touch God's Body leading you int1l heaven, you must thank God every day that vou, like the Blessed Mother at Calvai·y. arc the mother of a priest." Sometimes that kind of langu<~gc was more than mv mother could bear. Ours was not a Catholfc home; she had never wanted me to be ordained; now there were these mysteries that scpcratcd her from a child whose hands needed watching. The only thing she mentioned to me about it was that I should give up smoking. because the nicotine stained my fingers. 
I've always tried to keep my family from being uncomfortable over the fact that I am a priest. That is why I never gave my mother the white linen band. called a manuturgium. that was used at my ordination. The manuturgium is a linen towel that briefly binds the new priest's hands together. palm to palm, immediately after the bishop has anointed them with the ordination chrism. A manuturgium with my name embroidered on it had been made foi· me bv the mother of a classmate who was Irish enough and Catholic enough to know about such things. "Afterward," it was explained to me, "you give it to your mother. She keeps it until the day she dies. Then she is buried with it in her hand~ like a rosary." Presumably. the Lord would know what to do for those women who showed up clutching their sons' manutur­gia; but I figured my mother would prefer to make it on her own. She had feared the emotion of the ordination ceremony too much to attend it; it seemed considerate not to bring her sentimental relics she would only crv over and wonder what to do with. F01: t~·enty two years now, that manuturgium has been kept for me by a friend. Maybe someday it can be sewn as a patch to my shroud. 
I don't think that most priests ever needed priest's magic. A priest knew he didn't have miracles flowing off his finger tips; it cmbarrcssed him to be treated as a wonder worker, or as an innocent needing 

america on film 
As has been the tradition in past years. the Cinema '76 Stries will again present a week-long film festival next week. This semester's festival promises to be an insightful and delightfully unobtrusive tribute to the Bicentennial entitled "Man in the City: Confronting the American Dream.'' Cinema '76 Co-Chairperson Sean Coleman discussed the festival's signifi­cance to the nation's 200th birthday, explaining that it will be "a cinematic examination of American society. Besides that aspect," continued Coleman, "the festival will also represent a chronological progression with Chaplin and continuing through the evolution of the American cinema.'' 
The theme of the city is particularly good for the purpose of the fcsth,al because it represents the variety of experience that is afforded to Americans. In the city one can lind the aspiration and disappointment. the love and the cruel tv. the beauty and the ugliness, and the tri~amph and tragedy that arc all part of the American dream. City Lights (Sunday, April4): This film was written and directed by its star, the consummate star of the silent screen, Charlie Chaplin. Chaplin's characterization of the tramp is one of the most fanous in the history of film and has been entertain­ing moviegoers for over 40 years. City Ughts has all the marks of a Chaplin film: the rich visual humor played against a background of melancholy and disillusion, the beautiful and seemingly unapproach­able woman that the tramp inevitably falls for. and the final assertion that. despite the outcome, even losers aren't really lost tn the world. Dead End (April 5): William Wyler directed this tale of a gangster whQ returns to the slum he was raised i11. and 
dauid o'keefe 
encounters a group of toughs facing the same problems that got him where he is. Humphrey Bogart and the Dead End Kids (later the Bowery Boys) star in this entertaining study of the struggle against the relentless and cruel effects of "the poor side of town" on young people. West Side Story (April6): The winner of ten Academy Awards in 1961. West Side Story combines the music of Leonard Bernstein. excellent choreography and tine perfor­mances by a young cast to create a film of artistic merit and social significance highly unusual for a musical. Rita Moreno, George Chakiris, Richard Beymer and Natalie Wood star in this highly-acclaimed movie. Mickey One (April 7): Director Arthur Penn (Bonnie and Clyde, Little Big Man) strayed from the tradition that marked his earlier tilms to make this movie, the story of a nightclub comedian pursued by gangsters he doesn't see hut knows are right behind him. This taut thriller is a study in paranoia and borders on surreal­ism. Warren Beatty stars. Midnight Cowboy (April 8): The festival closes with the best movie of 1969, Midnight Cowboy. John Schlesinger direc­ted this portrait of New York City that is a study in neon and asphalt, vivid and vulgar in its depiction of the pain and ugliness uf life in the pit of the city. The performances by John Voight as Joe Buck and Dustin Hoffman as Ratso Rizzo are superlative as both actors capture the audience with their 
sensitivity and feeling. All films in the festival will be sho'A>n at · -1:00 in the Engineering Auditor­ium on the day indicated except for West Side Story, which will run at 7:00 and 10:00 PM. Admission for each showing will be $1.00 ... ·. .·," .: .
.'' . 
to be seated with the women and children. I have never trembled at transubstanti­ations, because even in the context of the Latin tradition. I never felt conscious of any power over the elements of bread and wine. It was always required faith for me to accept myself as a minister who could absolve and consecrate. When I hear today of a theology that says any Christian, by virtue of the priesthood of believers. can declare the forgiveness of sins, or that laymen have legitimately presided as ministers over celebrations of the Euchar­ist, I say to myself: if dcmythology has come to that. I can accept it without feeling cheated or dimi•1ishcd in my own vocation. Everywhere. today. in the Church. people arc looking for a piece of the priestly action; it is ccliba~y alone they don't seem anxious to share. Celibacy. apparently, is the price you pay if you want to be designated as <Ill ofticial minister, as contrasted to the unofficial ministers, of the graces of the kingdom. I feel truly and honestly enriched by the awareness that there arc ministers and co-workers in the Lord who do not need to be locked up in rectories at night for sake keeping. I know a Catholic mother who objects to so simple a liberty among laymen as this-their reception of the Eucharist in their hands. "I have given two sons to the Church as priests." she says. "It is their job to distribute the sacraments. Why else would I have given two sons? Why else have they spent ten years training? The Pope himself couldn't make me touch the Blessed Sarcamcnt." I feel bad for Catholic mothers who feel cheated of their reflected glory; but perhaps her sons will tell her: "It's okay. Mom. You don't have to be Jewish to serve matzoh ball soup." You don't have to be an apostle to cast out demons. In the days when it seemed you did have to be an apostle armed with credit cards and J.D.'s, the demon-casting felt like very lonely work, as though you wen: 
the only one-eyed man living in a kingdom of the blind. 
Once, there was a cartoon in the New 
Yorker showing a stout. balding man in his 
undershirt sitting across a cluttered break­
fast table from a stout. dumpy woman with 
curlers in her hair. One of them is saying to 
the other: "Dear, when did the magic go 
out of our marriage." Maybe there could 
be another cartoon that shows an aging 
bishop reading Andrew Greeley sitting 
with a pastor who is studying the 
suggo.:stions of the parish council. The 
bishop says: "Monsignor, when did the 
magic go out of our holy vocation?" 
True and essential magic is never really lost. churches don't lo~e it; priests don't lose it; laymen don't st.:al it from pril'~ts. I llW<:d that old Church whose magic seemed institutionalized in rituals and sanamL'nh, but I love the renewed Church swept h~· Pcntcl'Ost just as much, though it denies me a special holiness in hands exclusively delegated as a place where the chaste and fragile Host can twinkle its innocence as a truth I can hold on my fingertips. I feel that God reveals Himself more wonderfully in some of our contemporary prayer commun­itcs of love and caring than He cvt·r did in all our prctcntions to have His institutional magic. 
"Grace is everywhere," concludes Bcrn­anos' Country Priest, and I am the minister ministered unto. Everyone of us is miracle and sacrament to the other; and sacrament and miracle is what we have in plaL'C of priests with power over bread and wine. Yct the bread anJ wine is there, transigini­ticd or transubstantiated, for my faith to deal with, and for theologians to deal with. Despite our smartest words about sacra­ments. I suspect that none of us is more certain how the Lord is dealing with us than were the nuns who used to worry about the consecrations in the bakery trucks or wine on the shelves of the A. & P. The best blessings of God may not be magic, but they are certainly mysteries. I would dread the dreariness of a church, or an age. when there are no mysteries left. 



the jazz judges 
This afternoon at 2:30 p.m., the Eight­eenth Annual Collegiate Jazz Festival will open with the judges symposium in the recital room of the new Music Building. In the past, this symposium has bceu a good means of introducing the judges to all the participants of the festival and to the public in general. 
Th dialogue that has characterized past judges symposiums is one of openness and enthusiasm about the festival and jazz in general. The judges have been very cooperative about answering questions relating to their personal careers, their attitude !word trends in jazz music and their knowledge of music. This year's panel of judges should continue this cooperative and enthusiastic attitude that has made past symposiums so successful. 
An added dimension to this year's symposium is the diversity of styles and backgrounds of this years judges. This 
diversity  should  make  the  sidcussion  
between judges and audi ence  even  more  
interesting.  

Three of the judges, Malachi Favors, Lester Bowie, and Don Moye, are members of the Chicago Art Ensemble, an avante gardc group of black musicians. This group is dedicated to the promotion of Great Black Music. Malachi Favors. a bass player, is a life-long resident of Chicago who was influenced by Charlie Parker and msic of the be-bop period. He was also influenced by such players as Wilbur · Ware. Oscar Pettiford, and Jimmy Blan­ton. He has recorded with Andrew Hill, Arche Shepp. Frank Foster, and Dexter 
Gordan. 

Lester Bowie, a trumpetand flugelhorn player, was born in Mass.:chusetts but considers St. Louis as his home town. He began his musical studies with his father, an accomplished musician well versed in contemporary brass techniques. 
Don Moye, a drum player and percus­sionist, studied at Wayne State in Detroit where he became associated with the Detroit Free Jazz and developed his interest in all areas of Break Black Music. After spending one year as an artist-in-res-· idence at Michigan State University, he encountered the Chicago Art Ensemble in 
· Paris' He-is· now considered· to· be one of 
jack whitehurst 
the leading proponents of the new Chicago­
style or percussion. 
The three have made successful tours in 
Europe and Japan with the Art Ensemble. 
They arc also associated with the Associa­
tion for the Advancement of Creative 
Musicians (A.A.C.M.). Their approach to 
music is a free-form style with much less 
structure than is found in other types of 
jazz music. At the symposium, they will 
represent a style much different than that 
of Bob James. 
James, an arranger, composer, and keyboards specialist, represents the fusion style of jazz. This style combines elements of both jazz and rock music and uses a much more structured musical form than the Great Black Music of the Art Ensem­ble. His work as an arranger has brought him to assistance of many renowned jazz and rock musicians. He has worked with such tine musicians as Hubert Laws, Grover Washington Jr., Hank Crawford. Sara Vaughan and Stanley Turrentine. Recently he did some of the arrangements on Paul Simon's new grammy-award-win­ning album, Still Crazy After AJI These Years. It could be interesting to listen to James and the members of the Art Ensemble discuss their divergent musical styles. 
Dave Remmington, a trombone player, represents a middle ground between James and the Art Ensemble. He plays mostly a mainstream style of jazz music. He leads a big band in Chicago and will join the others as a judge at this year's festival. 
Joe Farrell, a well-known saxaphonc and flute player out of New York combines all three of these jazz styles in his muscial repertoire. So he should be able to help unify the discussion at the symposium. 
Another unifying factor at the sympos­ium will be Dan Morgenstern, a critic, free-lance writer, and former editor of Downbeat Magazine. This long time friend of and participant (as a judge) in the Notre Dame Festival has a superb knowledge of jazz. He has always been an interesting and enjoyable participant in past sympos­iums. 
All in all, this year's symposium promises to be another succelisful one. · 


~---­
.'· 
~· .... • .• .. \ i.. ,.,. -l ,. '.' \.' ~.

. .. 
.~. ' ~ \ '· . 

-
t 
l 
l t 
~ 
I 
~ 
I I 
~ 
I 
the observer Friday, April 2, 1976 
I -­

Less weddings today 
WASHINGTON (AP] More than a million couples in the United States were divorced last year, the highest number in American history, a new government study shows. During the same period, the number of marriages dropped to the lowest level since 1969. 

Bro. Samuel Englert 
dies in Holy Cross,
l ­

Brother Samuel (Charles) Eng­lert. C.S.C.. died Wednesday mo­rning in Hot~· Cross House at Notre Dame after a brief illness. A former member of the circulation department at Ave Maria Maga­zine for 41 vears and more recently assistant s~cristan at Sacred Heart Church. he was 71. 
Friends ma~· call after 3:30 p.m. Thursday in the Lady Chapel of Sacred Heart where a joint wake service for Brother Samuel and ({ev. Joseph E. Payne. C S.C .. who also died earlv Wednesday after service 35 yea~s as pastur of Little Flower Church, South Bend. will be at 7 p.m. The funeral mass for Brother Samuel will be at 3:30p.m. 
~......,..........................................,,,.........~ 



~ NEW RELEASES: ~ 





~ * * * * I~
I AMIGOS 
~ Santana· ~ 
I TAKIN' IT TO THE STREETS I 
~ Doobie Brothers ~ I WINGS AT THE SPEED ~ ~ OFSOUND I ~ Paul McCartney & Wings ~ 
~ $6.98 LP'S ALWAYS ~ 

I $4.99 ~ 
~ $7.98 TAPES ALWAYS I! $6.29 II CHfXK OUT OUR BOOTH AT II THE JAZZ FESTIVAL ~ ~ THIS WEEKEND I
i I
RECORDS 


I I I
255·0266 

I· . 91 ~a-c,oJ..L.EQ~..SQUARE ..1...... ~(#7864)· 
~..................................................................~ ~----------------------------------------------------~ 
Friday in Sacred Heart and burial will be in the Community Ceme­tcry. 
Born in East Brady. pa .. January 
18. 1905. Brother Samuel entered the Holv Cross Novitiate at Notre Dame February I. 1927. and made his final profession of vows on July 
2. 1931. He served from 1929 to 1970 as a canvasser and distributor of the Ave Maria magazine. 
Surviving are three sisters. Mrs. Alice Baker and Ann Englert of Pittsburgh. and Pauline Englert. Butler. Pa.. and six nephews, including Rev. David Smith of the Holy Ghost Order at Duquesne University. 
Carter comes to Notre Dame ­
(continued from page l) an appearance on campus. South Bend and Notre Dame are 
Humphrey won the May 2 pri­not unfamiliar with visiting Presi­mary that year by a narrow margindential candidates, particularly over Wallace. Sen. Edmur·dcontenders for the Democratic Muske was the only other Demo~spot. 
crat on the ballot.
Sen. Hubert Hmphrey and Gov. George Wallace made campaign October of 1972 saw viee-presi-· stops in South Bend within five dential candidate Sargeant Shrivcr days of each other during the 1972 ans Sen. Edward Kennedy both primaries, although neither made make campaign appeals for the 
Students encouraged to join in UFW actions 
United Farm Worker Represent­ative Liz White met with Richard Parra, Director of the Midwest Council of LaRaza yesterday to discuss possibilities of setting up a program on campus to encourage student participation in United Farmworkers' activities. 
White pointed out that the major function of the program would be to solicit asmanvstudent volunteers as possible · 
"Currently we have only 17 volunteers living in the Chicago area. and 10 of these have just left for California to help obtain signatures for an important bill concerning the farm workers,'' said ~ hite. "We have just got to have more manpower." 
The volunteers receive $5 a week 

in addition to room and board for 
their services. The work varies 
Howto flyhome in the face ofinflation. 
Flying home economically is simple when you take off on Allegheny. And take ad­vantage of the big choice of discount air travel plans. For instance: 
The Liberty Fare. 
You can go home and a lot ofother places besides, with unlimited air travel at one, low price. You get a choice of plans, too. ? days for $135, 14 days for $155, or 21 days for $185. Good everywhere we fly, except Canada. Advance purchase required. 
Group 4 to 9* 
Groups of 4 to 9 save up to 20.% roundtrip between any ofour U.S. cities. Simply make reservations and pur­chase tickets 48 hours in advance--and travel to­gether. Our Group 10 Plan saves larger groups up to 33-1/3% roundtrip. 
Fares subject to change without notice • Effective April 1, 1976. 
each day, but usually involves talking to different groups in the area and getting them interested in joining or helping the volunteer farm worker representatives. 
Both White and Parra are inter­ested in setting up the program as soon as possible in order to capture students' attention before Farm Worker's week which will occur from May 2 to May 8. 
The 20-minute -film and talks dealing with the problems of th farm worker which comprise the program are scheduled to be held within the next two weeks. 
White stated that the Summer Action Program begins on June 10, and anyone interested should contact the Farm Worker Volun­teers, 1300 South Wabash, Chicago Illinois 60605, or call 312-939-5120. 
The Freedom Fare. It's brand new, offering up to 30% savings before June 1 and after September 15. Dur­ing the summer season, the 
discount is 20%. Freedom Fare seating is limited on each flight, so advance reserva­
tions and pre-purchase of tickets are required. Good everywhere, except Canada. 
The Weekend Plan. Take off as early as ? PM Friday--return as late as noon Monday and save up to 25.% roundtrip between our 
U.S. cities. Good anytime-­including holiday weekends with advance reservations and pre-purchase of tickets. 
It's your move. See your Travel Agent for complete details on our dis­count air travel plans. Or call Allegheny. We'll show you how to fly in the face of inflation. 
Democratic McGovern-Shriver tic­ket to large groups of Notre Dame students in Stepan Center. _ In November, Edward Cox, son­
in-law of then President Richard Nixon, campaigned in South Bend for Nixon and area Republicans. 
Four years before, .it was· Sen. Robert Kennedy who was running for .the Democratic candidacy and who attracted immense crowds of students in mid-April 1968. His main Democratic contender at the time, Sen. Eugene McCarthy. drew only a small crowd later in the monthe in the Center for Continuin Education. 
Vice-presidential candidate in 1968 Edmund Muskie came to Notre Dame in Septemeber while campaigning for the Democratic Humphrey-Muskie ticket. 
BARAERS & HAIRSTYLISTS 
FUU.. SERVICE UNISEX SHOP 
ROCCO'S ROCCO'S ROCCO'S ROCCO'S 
s;·; N. ··~iehigan


2334957ROCCO'S .. 

Sophmore offices reinstated the observer 


Class officers tickets slated 

Senior Class President Augie Grace announced last night the complete tickets for the upcoming class election after a candidates meeting. 
This years election is highlighted by the return of sophomore class officers after a three year absence. Grace noted that it is appropiate that the sophomore positions would be the most contested with five tickets competing. 
Campaigning started yesterday and will continue until 12 p.m. Monday, April 5. The primary elections will be held on Tuesday, April 6 in the halls from 11:30 a.m. -l:oo p.m. and S:oo p.m.-6:30p.m. and in the Huddle from 12:00 p.m.-b:OO p.m. for off-campus stu­dents. The run-off election will be held Thursday, April 8 with the same poll hours. 
Running unopposd in the Senior Class elections are incumbents Bob Tully-president, Darlene Palma­vice president, Ken Girouard-sec­
retary,  and  John  Donohue  for  
treasurer.  
Two  tickets  are  running  for  

Junior Class officers. Pat Flynn­president, MaryLou Mulvihill-vice president, SueBailey-secretary, and Bob "Tex" Keffler-treasurer will oppose Mark Klein-president, John Talbot-vice president, Kathy McElroy-secretary and Patty Kul­ick-treasurer. 

Five tickets will compete for the newly reinstated sophomore class officer positions. The tickets are: Tom Adloph-president, Bill Baker­vice president, Bill Brittan-secre­tary and Joe Baum-treasurer; Peter Arnt-president, Deb Cabaro-vice president, Bob Davoli-secretary, Tom Moore-treasurer; and Reed King-president, Terry Gerth-vice president, Mike Mullen-secretary and Dane Taylor-treasurer. 
The two remaining tickets are: Pete Curcio-prcsidcnt, Mark Huard-vicc president. Mary 
Moore-secretary, and Bob Ken­nedy-treasurer; Mike Clancy-presi­dent. John Ryan-vice prcsidnet, Kristin Quann-secrctaryand Rav Rai-treasurer. 

Campus Briefs 
Peace Corps recruitment set 
ACTION, Peace Corps and VIS­TA renuiters will stage a spring recruitment campaign at Notre UamL' Univn~itv thi~ Mondav tln­ough Thur~da:>. ·April 5-11. The visit mark~ the fi11al PeaL'L' Corps re­LTuitnll'llt at Notre Dame during the 197S-7h school war. 
The recruiter~ arid L'xhihit table will he in the Lihrar~· lohh~· each dar from l) a.m. to 5 p.m. during the rL'LTuitillg campaig11. 
Henuiter~ will interview pros­pectivL· applil'anh at the Placement 1 Office on Mon .. Apr. S. 
Phil Skile~. former Peace Corps voluntt·er i11 Ghana. will head the TL'LTUiti11g team. With Skiles will he Bill Magee. former VISTA volunteer in Georgia and Julia Meek. former Peace Corps volun­teer i11 Sierre Leone. 
According to Skill's, the recruit­er~ are currently looking tor appli­cants to enter summer training program~. They're cspeeially in­terested in graduating seniors with skills in Bu~incss. Languages, Ed· uL·ation. Engineering. English 
Fi~hcries. Riological Sciences and Law. 
The Peal·c Corps training in­cludes language instruction, cross­cultural briefings and job orienta­tion. Volunteers receive tr·anspor­tation. medil'al and housing expcn­st•s, subsistence living allowance. 
•and vacation leave. 
Pitt Club trip 
The Pitt Club will sponsor busst_ to Pittsburgh for Easter break. Sign-ups will be on Sunday. April 
4. at 6:30 p.m. in the LaFortune Amphitheatre. 
!'he trip will cost $27 round-trtp 
for  members  of  the  Club,  $30  
round-trip for  non-members,  and  
$15 one-way.  Busses  will leave  

Notre Dame from the Center for Continuing Education at I p.m. Thursday, April IS, and will return Monday, Aprill9,lcavingat I p.m. from the Pittsburgh Greyhound station. 
Elections for new Pitt Club officers will be held at the April 4th meeting. 
ND Cheerleading tryouts Sunday 
Chccrleading tryouts will begin Sunday, Apr. 4. from I p.m. to 5 
p.m. in the ACC pit. Sunday's session will be a elinic for the instruction and practice of two danee routines, two double stunts and gymnastics. 
All returning freshman, soph­omore and junior boys, girls and leprechauns are eligible to audi­tion, according to cheerleading captain Becky Bracken. The selec­tion committee will consist of the two captains, Hank Carrico and 
Becky Bracken, four outgoing che­erleaders. and four outside .iudges inl'luding a dance instructor, a gymnastics coach. a United States 

Cheerleading  Assodation  official  
and  a  former  Notre  Dame cheer­ 
leader.  

first-elimination trvouts will be hdd Monday evcni;1g at 6:30. followed hv the second and tinal­climinatior~ tryouts on Wednesday and friday C~'Cnings. Clinics wiil also be held on Tuesday and Thursday afternoons. 
Attcntlence at the clinics is mandator\'. For further informa­tion, cont;rct Becky Bracken (1279) or Hank Carrico (351:!4). 

Bicentennial talks to be televised 
Dr. Martin Diamond, professor of political science at Northern Illinois University. will discuss "The American Idea of Equality--A View from the Founding" in a televised ledure Saturday and Sunday. April3 and 4. at I p.m. on Cable Channel 2. 
The lel'ture was videotaped dur­ing the recent Bicentennial Festival and Conference held at the Univer­sity of Notre Dame. The weekly series on Channel 2. which will run through May 9, will feature the distinguished scholars who lec­tured on various aspects of Amer­ica's political. cultural and moral heritage. reflecting on the confer­ence theme, "An Almost Chosen People: The Moral Aspirations of Amerieans." 

Speakers in subsequent weeks will include Prof. Sidney Ahlstrom, Yale University; Prof. Peter Ber­ger. Rutgers University; Prof. Vin­cent Harding, University of Pcnn­slyvania; Prof. Alfred Kazin, Hun­ter College; Prof. I. Bernard Co­hen, Harvard University, and Rev. Theodore M. He~burgh, C.S.C., president of Notre Dame. 
Early Childhood Development Center may open 

There is a possibility that the Early Childhood Development cen­ter will be open this summer, either during the Notre Dame summer session or during the entire sum­mer if there is sufficient interest and need. The center would be providing full or part-time pro­grams for children between the ages of six and eight years. 
Anyone who is interested or wants further information should call Terri Kosick at 284-4 
White Sox trip 

Openings are still available for the Student Union bus trip to the Chicago White Sox home opener on April 9. The $9.50 package includes transportation and admis­sion. Reservation and payment can be maJe at the Student Union ticket office. 
Class of '77 T-shirts on sale 
Class of '77 shirts will be on sale today from I p.m. to S p.m. in the LaFortune lobby. The shirts arc priced at $2 each. 
Black Studies sponsors tribute 
The Black Studies Program and the Speech and Drama Department of St. Mary's will sponsor a musical tribute to the black entertainer, 
entitled Feelin' Good, presented by 
the National Theatre Company. 
The performance will be held on 
Apr. 7 at 8 p.m. in O'Laughlin 
Auditorium. 
Tickets are on sale in the Black Studies Office, 345 O'Shaughnessy Hull. the Pmgram Office, Moreau Hall. St. Mary's and at the door. Tickets arc $t'.oo. 
Arf . . 
Gallery exhibit i "BIGGEST LITTLE : 
An exhibition of paintings, wat­ercolors. drawings and graphics by Thomas Moran, nineteenth century American landscapist, will open at 2 p.m. Sunday. April 4 in the Uni­versity of Notre Dame Art Gallery. A reception from 2 to 5 p.m. is open to the public. 
Part of the Bicentennial Exhibi­tions scheduled during the year, the Moran Show includes more than 120 works by the artist. who was born in 1837 and died in 1926. Dr. Thomas S. Fern, associate professor of art at Notre Dame, arranged the exhibit, which in­cludes many works that will be seen for the first time outside of the institutions which own them. 

Included in the exhibit will be the · "field work" of the artist. Fern has arranged for the display of many preliminary drawings that were later to become monumental can­vases. Moran's travels are traced from Philadelphia to his first western adventure to Lake Superior in 1860, to Yellowstone in 1871, and to annual expeditions to the 
ND Chorale announces plans 
The Notre Dame Chorale has announced pldr.s for its spring tour which will take place April 2-5. The 23 member mixed ensemble will be giving concerts in Chatanooga, Nashville and Knoxville, Tennessee. 
A small and highly selective group, the Chorale is in its second year of existence. Enthusiastically received on its "mini-tour" last year, its plans have been extended. 
The group has performed at various campus and community activities and has begun a tradition of annual Christmas and spring campus concerts. 
Their spring repertoire includes a variety of musical selections from Brahms and Mozart to Gershwin and Samuel Adler, who recently premiered a composition during Notre Dame's Bicentenial clebration. 
After their return from Tennessee, the Chorale will be performing their spring program at 8:15 p.m., Wed., April 7, in Washington Hall. 
Members of the Chorale are: Lisa Gambino, Carol Hackett, Anita Hampson, Carol Kersten, Alanna Purcell, Harriet Schroeder, Josie Danini, Patty Dondanville, joan Martel, Lisa Moore, Carolyn Popp, Maggie Smith, Don Brittnahcer, Tom Felts, Tim Keogh, Dave Mhler, Virgil Roth, john Terrell, Frank Buczolich, Mike Culhane, Chauck Daubner, jim Foster, and Paul Shay. 
They are directed by Dr. David C. lsele, asst. professor of music at Notre Dame. 

~ ..TiMM·y,·x:ttrv·s·raifE···i 
!OPEN : MON-SAT 9am-llpmi 
: • SUNDAY 12noon-11 pm : • 
: COLD BEER,WINE, LIQUOR, i 
• 

GORMET FOODS !
•

~••••J..I.CfJlg11.§1.9.1J~.IJi.Ml~JilHAt\~ ••••; 
.. 

'Ill • ' .. 41 • " • ~ .. • ... , .. • • 

Action 

Express 

Q. I missed the mandatory meeting for freshmen on Wednesday, March 24 concerning pre-registration. What can I do about It? 
A. The pre-registration programs were handled by the individual colleges, not by the Freshmand Year Studies, so don't go over to the Freshman Year Office. Since the meeting was mandatory (and considered unforgivable if you didn't attend!) most of the colleges haven't considered the problems of absentees. If you intend to ,·nroll inthe College of Business Administration, stop by 132 Hayes-Healy or contact another freshman who went to the meeting. 
1,~ the College of Science and Engineering, the department chairmen should have the necessary information. In the College of Afts and Letters, try and talk to someone that went or pick up the materials in Assistant Dean Waddick's office. 
Q. What happened to the dance marathon last weekend for ., Multiple Sclerosis? 
IA. The marathon was cancelled due to lack of interest. Only ne couple and two "h;•.1r couples" showed up. Because of the lack of interest there is little chance that it will be re-scheduled. 
Q. When can sophomores order their class rings? 
A. Class rings are now on display at the bookstore. Orders can be made after April 5 and the rings will be received by next September. By the way, if you've tried calleing the bookstore during lunch, don't worry, they just don't answer the phone during this time. (There is a machine which will record your message, though!) 
Army to cut 'overhead' 
WASHINGTON The Army said hanan, Army Depot. Ill.,; The yesterday it plans to close or Jefferson Proving Ground, Ind.; impose reductions at 29 forts and Arlington Hall Station, Va.; Vint other bases in a move to cut a Hill Farms Research Station, Va.; non-essential overhead and save at and family housing at Schilling least $42 million. Manor. Kan.. and even district 
The actions would result in recruiting headquarters. elimination of 4.500 civiliam jobs The most heavily affected base is and transfer of 13.128 servicemen Ft. Devens. Mass.. which would and civilian worders. lose 4,372 military personnel and 
The affected bases, ranging from 846 civilian jobs with the planned forts to small district recruiting transfer of the Army Security headquarters. are located in 17 Agency Training Center, a special states, the Distirct of Columbia and forces group, an engineer battalion Puerto Rico. and other troop units elsewhere. The Army plan is conditional Ft. Devens would be left only with largely on the outcome of studies a reserve training mission. assessing the imact of the moves on Next hardest hit would be the the environment and factors such Aberdeen Probing Ground, Md., as employment, schools and hous­which would lose 1,578 military and ing. The studies are required by 741 civilian positions with the shift law and will take up to nine months of an ordinance school to Redstone ' 
Counting cutback plans announ­Arsenal, Ala., and relocation of ced by The Air Force and Navy last some other activities to Ft. Eustis, month, the new Army actions bring Va. the total of affected bases to 160, In a separate action not related to the number of jobs to be reduced to the base cutbacks, the Army an­
22.000 and the claimed annual nounced it wants to set up head­savings to about $248 million. quarters of a new electronics 
Sixteen of the 29 bases or forts research and development com­would be closed. the include: Ft. mand in the Washington area, Hamilton and Ft. Totten, N.Y. ;Ft. \ which would mean removing some acArthur. LosAngeles activities from Ft. Monmouth, N.J. 
Another proposed reorganiza­Sixteen of the 29 bases or forts tion, the Army said, would involvewould be closed. They include: Ft. 1 establishing headquarter of a newHamilton and Ft. Totten, N.Y.; Ft. 
Army aviation research and devel­MacArthur. Los Angeles; Ft. Buc­opment command in St. Louis. 
........ , ............ . 

Sociology convention opens 
ban Sociology;The Sociology of Law tion is the first of its kind to be heldby Carl Bitler 
Systmes, Anarchism, Structura­in the Midwest. Undergraduate Staff Reporter lism. and graduate students from 19 11 a.m.-12:30 p.m.: Women's universities, covering a five-state 
Professor Donald N. Barrett Liberation; Population: Sociology director of the undergraduate pro-of Work; Sociology of Education. area, will present papers. gram in sociology announced yes-1 p.m.-2:30p.m. Official Lunch-Those Notre Dame students pre­terday the final schedule for the eon of the convention. senting papers are Jeff Armstrong, first Notre Dame Convention of 3 p.m.-4:30 p.m.: Retirement Edward Singer, Daniel Klenow, Graduate and Undergraduate Soc-and Death; Social Psychology; Marjorie Eisch, Christopher Teske, iological Research, to be held Youth and Youth Organizations; Jeff Crane, Lesley Fair, Pamela tomorrow in the LaFortune Student Critical and Phenomenological T Edington, Carl Bitler, Thomas Center. Theory. Conti, Robert Teitler, Mary Ann 
Registration will begin today at All sections will be held in the Lamanna, Mark Samolczyk, Ray 
1:00 p.m. in the foyer of the LaFortune Student center. "-lcLain, Stephen Legeay, and Lar-LaFortune Student Center, and last The Notre Dame AKD Conven-rv Boren. 
unti13:00 p.m. All who attend and ----r· -------·-----­
participate should register. • BUL A SHED __ t 
All students and faculty are 

~nnv~t\odt~~e ;!~~~~ t~~edi~~~;:i~~~~ 1EVERYONE WELCOME~ 
AdmissiOn IS free to all sectiOns. ' , 
From 3-4:45 p.m. three sections ' ' will be held concurrently, in Strati-' ' fication Theory, Urban Ethics and t THIS FRIDAY A;"JD EVERY t 
Commu~ity Change, and Symbolic f f Interaction. 
Saturday'seventsareincludedin' FRIDAY AT 5: 1 S p.m. ' a three-part program. There will ' t be an official luncheon at 1 p.m. in ' f the Faculty Dining Room of the ' South Dining Hall. The luncheon is f 1 b f 
open to all participants in the , A~ass fol owed y dinner , Cor.vention program. Professor J. ' ' Milton Yinger, president-elect of -----------------­
the American Sociological Associa­tion, will speak on "A Middle 
Start,  or  is  Kindergarten  Too  
Late?"  
A schedule  of  Saturday's  sec­ 

tions and their respective times is as follows: 9 a.m.~10:45 a.m. Ur­

18,000 strike in San Francisco 
SAN FRANCISCf1 Picketing up by the 10 unions representig whatever," said Thomas Griffin. spread to two major hospitals craft workers who walked off their acting administrator at San Fran­
yesterday as a strike by 2,000 of the jobs Wednesday in a wage dispute. cisco General. "We have a strike city's more than 18.000 municipal The Board of Supervisors set up plan in effect to take care of most workers halted all public transit for a strike headquarters at a down­emergencies." the second day with no sign of town hotel but neither side report­The next shift change will occur progress toward a settlement. ed any progress. No talks were in midafternoon and hospital offic­
San Franciscans. stung by the under way and none were schedul­ials would not specualte on what third strike of city workers in two ed. might happen then. 
years, found alternate means of The Service Employes Interna­The halt in municipal transporta­getting to work and around town. tional Union, representing 9,000 tion affected some 250.000 riders. They also had to make do without hospital. custodial. clerical and Streets were clogged with automo­city recreation facilities and other social workers, voted Wednesday biles and the number of pedestri­
public services. night to honor pickets but refused ans surged. 
Mayor George Moscone, who to join the strike itself. The drivers of th city's 1.000 has vower to stay in his office A half-dozen picket signs went ~treetcars. buses and cable cars did around-the-clock to serve as a up early today at city-owned San not strike but honored the picket 
mediator if asked. spent another Francisco GeneraI Hospital and lines and were off the job. night on a cot in city Hall. Laguna Honda Hospital, but the Taxi companies reported a brisk Several thousand city employes move came just after a shift change business. and one high school 
were off the job as nonstriking city and the effect was negligible. pupil. lunch bag iu hand, hitched a unions honored picket lines thrown ·'There has been no disruption ride wnn a cab driver. School attendance was reported down by 
as much as SO per cent. 

One-to One PEACE People Helping People Q 
FIND OUT R 

ABOUT OVERSEAS JOBS 
Mon April 5 thru Thurs April 8 P Memorial Library S 
Interviews Mon April 5 Placement Office 


Sunday is Family Day at The Boar's-Head! 
from Noon till10:00 p.m. on Sundays 
COMPLETE HAM or CHICKEN DINNER 

$3.95 

COMPLETE CHOPPED SIRLOIN or 
CHICKEN DINNER for Kids (Under 12) 
4P'$-L $1 75 (Ourregularmenu 
,1.,.1"-•1lt._ • Is available too!) 
~0·,.....---........;;~ ---
Cbe BCfiR'S-HBliD Restauttant 
52885 U.S. 31 North South Bend I 272-5478 
"\.· 






Indiana truckers strike 
INDIANAPOUS IAP)Truck traffic was down an average 30 per cent 
·and Hoosier grocers worried about a long stikc as the nationwide Teamsters walkout entered its first day. There arc more than 6,000 Tcumstcrs in the state. 
Indiana State Police said one unidentified truck driver reported he was pulled over on U. S. 30 neur Smith Bend by a car containing seven men and ordered to get his rig off the road. The driver was not hurt and continued on his was after the men left police said. 
It was the onlv hostile incident during the lirst · 12 hours of the strike in lndianu. 
RqJOrts from local trucking com­panies and freight depoh indicted the strikl' was 100 per cent effective in Indiana. 
Grm·ers in Indiana said they had enough stock to last about two weeks. Some major food chains such as Krogers' were not affected by the walkout since they have a separate agreement with the truck­
ers. 
Fourteen freight terminals in Madison County were closed and 250 Teamsters set up picket lines around the buildings. authorities said. Similar occurences were reported in the Richmond. Fort Wayne and Evansville areas. 
State police said truck traffic decreased by 30 per cent on the Indiana Toll Road and Interstate 80 in northwest Indiana and 1-69 in northeast Indiana. Traffic was down by SO per cent in southern and southwestern Indiana. 
Of!icials at U.S. Steel's Gary Works said they ould not immedi­ately assess the strike's impact on the nation's largest steelmaker. A spokesman for the company said shipments were being readied for delivery. Independent steelhaulers 
were not participating in the strike. Two locals in Indianapolis, I93 and 
716. arc not covered by the Teamsters master agreement and arc not on strike. 
Police also reported many trucks parked at a truck stop on the Indiana-Ohio border on U. S. 40 ncar Richmond. 
''All of our people are respecting picket lines," James Nolan, secre­tary-treasurer of Teamsters Local 135 said. "We're trying to get everybody home." 
Surrealist painter dies 
PARIS lAP] Max Ernst, a German­born surrealist painter recognized as one of th modern masters, died Thrusday night at his Paris apart­ment a few hours before his 85th birthday. 
He suffered a stroke in May I975 at his home in Seillans, southern France, and was flown to Paris fro treatment. After that he remained inhis apartment here. Dorothea Tanning. an American artist Ernst married in 1946 as his fourth wife, was with him at death. 
Ernst. a founder of Dadaism. 
was born in Cologne, Germany. He 
acquired U. S. Citizenship During 
World War II but relinqulsh­l'd it in 19SX for French nationality ul'ter returning to France with Miss Tanning. 
U. S. copper heiress and art collector Peggy Guggenheim help­ed Ernst come to America in 1940 and they were married the next year. That marriage, Ernst's third, ended in divorce in 1946. 
One of Ernst's most spectacular works is a bed purchased by U. S. Vice President Nelson A. Rockefel­l~r and placed in the vice presiden­tial mansion in Washington. 
Ernst titled it "Cage Bed with Screen." Rockefeller's wife, Hap­py, called it "indescribable." 
T he bed, with concealed reces­ses for the telephone, light and music, is contained in a brass cage with a wrought iron tree growing out of the headboard. 
$2.8 millionstolen in Montreal 
MONTREAL !API Police investigating the $2.R million 
Brink's robbery found a number of lingcrprints in the two vans used by the robbers and in the hijacked armored truck. a police spokcsrnun reported today. 
"We hop lo have a match within 24 hours," the spokesman said. He added the police are also checking intelligence reports a year ago that a, Brink's robbery was being planned•••••·....... . 
Inspector Je<i"ti" 'Cliuidc' R'ohi:lot'1:· head of the Montreal Criminal Investigation Bureau, said Quebec and Ontario porvincial police, the Royal Canadian Mounted Police and the U. S. Federal Bureau of Investigation have been asked for any information that could help identify the tive men who hijacked the truck Tuesday and took nearly $3 million worth of banknotes and $5 and $10 s11vcr coins commemo­rating the Summer Olympics in Montreal this yuear. 
. •. , ~l!r\cF·,anloi_.~~~~)~ti~y: ~ff,pfai~~~r~ ~· 1t was Hie largest cash robbery on record in North America. 
Friday, April 2, 1976 the observer 1 1 
At the CEE 
Dunne opens Jung conference 
by Jean O'Meara Staff Reporter 

The opening lecture in the C.G. J ung Conference being held this week-end at the Center for Contin­uing Education was delivered by Professor John Dunne at 1:30 Thursday afternoon. 
Psychologists, philosophers, priests, nuns, professors and stu­dents arriving from all over the United States were welcomed by Conference Professor Thomas Kap­acinskas of the Theology Depart­ment, Fr. James Burtchaell, pro­vost and Dr. Isabel Charles, dean of the College of Arts and Letters. Charles introduced Dunne as the "legendary figure-a traveller through the complicated terrain of life who for 20 years has inspired and fascinated his students with his clear and accessible approaches to the deepest problems of human existence." 
Dunne centered his talk on "The reasons of the heart, because the work of C.G. Jung has to do with the symbols that go with Pascal's statement: 'The heart has its reasons which reason does not know of.' The heart's reasons can become known to the mind when the heart is kindled." 
Through a wealth of imagery and stories taken from varied myths, legends, philosophers and poets, Dunne described the spiritual ad­venture of man beginning loneli­ness, passing through solitude and ulimately finding joy. 
"Man experiences loneliness even when he finds a fulfilling love and joy in others. There is that deep untouched loneliness in hu­mans that is not taken away in intimacy with others,'' said Dunne. 
At first the loneliness is a weak longing, a lanquishing, he contin-
WANTED Need ride to Pit!.. April 2. Call Bob, 3665. 
Wanted: One used 510 speed bike. Good condition. Will pay $10-50. Call Kitty, 1328. 
PEACE CORPS! Next week. It's the recruiters' last visit this school year. At Memorial Library. 
Overseas Jobs! Interviews Monday April 5 from 9 a.m.-5 p.m. at the Placement Office. Find out about job opportunities with the Peace Corps. 
FOR SALE 

For Sale: Teac 1600A reel to reel. $195. Call Chris, 3485. 
For Sale: 72 Fiat 124 Spider, 287-3059. Ask for Bob. 
FOR RENT 

Milliken Rentals, 282-2089, 233.. 5833. House & apartments, availa­ble for June or Sept. 
House for rent, 5 bedrooms. fur­nished. Utilities paid by owner, located near campus. $250.00 per month. Deposit, lease. required. Call 234-7925 anytime or 232-2088. 
Summer houses and rooms tor rent . real close to campus. Furnished, ridiculously reasonably. 233-2613 or 232-7263. 
4. 5, 6 bedroom houses. Completely furnished. ·Extremely nice. Real close to campus. Sept. 1976, 9 month lease. 233-2613 or 232 7263. 
Summer' rentals: 4 bedroom. 5 bedroom 110use, 1 bedroom apt, 3 bedroom apt. All furnished. Near ND. Very reasonable. 234 2626. 
For rent next school term: 5 bed­rooms, 2 baths all turn ished. Porc11. off street parking. Near ND. 9 month lease, 234 2626. 
5 room house. two bedrooms for rent, fenced yard. gas furnace, garage, fire place, near Notre Dame. 1 block from St. Joseph Hospital. 
Summer apartment. Furnished two bedroom, Air Conditioning, Shag Carpeting, Dishwasher, .e~t1 · Qui'et 
· and cle<!n. ·Shurt·walk -tP/~0. Rent .• fie'qO.f;.-\lif~J/cVr~'S.~ .ih·ll~~:f. 
ued. "Most people, as Thoreau said, live lives of quiet desperation which undercut relations with others, making them oblivious to others needs and fellings." 
Then there is a change in direction, stressed Dunne, and t~is is crucial. This change is brought about by a variety of circumstances or people. "It is the kindling of the heart. Man has a sense that there is something to live for. The heart begins to catch fire. Man lights up when he gives himself over com­pletely to that loneliness, to that deep longing, that longing for intimacy with God. It is through this that man finds an inner joy." 
In the third phase man turns back to life, enkindled with joy, but still carrying the pain. The deep loneliness has turned to love and the longing to joy." And this, stressed Dunne, is the means which man endures the , conflicts, death, and all 


Classified Ads 
NOTICES 
Looking for a place to get away on Lake Michigan. For rent: Lodge and Cabins. during April and-or May. Only30 min. from campus: Gintaras Resorl. 15860 Lake Shore Rd. Union 
Pier Mich. Te. 616-469-3298. 
ND SMC Council tor the Retarded: No Sat. Rec-Picnic Sunday Holy Cross Hall-ND, 1:00-4:30, Jim Scott.1745orSue Maude, 277-1182. 
Linda's Lellers, dissertations spe­cial isis. typing at student rates, 2895193. 
Consenting adults. The Gay Com­minityof Noire Dame. Holling, 8870 Fri. & Sal. 8-10 pm, or write, Box 206. 
Set your own hours and income selling our line of handmade Indian jewelry. Free details. Bluebird Manufacturing. 524 Bryn Mawr S.E., Alburquerque, N.M. 87106 
Papers professionally and promptly typed 1BM Selectric II and complete typing service. Call 277-2922. 
STEREO COMPONENTS. 20 40 PERCENT DISCOUNT. All quality namebrands. RMS Audio, 321 S. Main, 288 1681, M F, 12:00-6:00. 
Accurate. fast typing Hours. 8 am lo 8 pm. Mrs. Donoho, 232 0746. 
Typing, $.35 a page. Call Dan. 272 5549. 
LOST & FOUND 
LOST: Men's gold watch wilh black face. between Nickie's and North Quad. Call Denis. 1245. 
Lost: Set of keys OIJ Friday, March 26, Possibly in small foreign car coming back from Nickie's. If found, please call Craig, at 3336. 
PERSONALS 
To all Lovely Lasses, 
A handsome personable Domer 
would like to take one of you to the 
Stanford Formal. April 10. II availa· 
ble, please call Glenn, "Sci!". 8658. 
of the boundary situtations which 
man must endure." 
Dunne summarized man's jour­ney through the Gospel of St. John when Jesus said, "Your sorrow will be turned to joy, and your joy no one will take away from you." 
The audience responded with a sustained period of comments and questioning lasting almost an hour. One questioner brought new di­mensions to the talk: "Aren't there many dangers on this trip into solitude, this total acceptance of \lonliness.'' 
Dunne admitted the sense of danger comes with the sense of spiritual adventure. He empha­sized that other people are needed to guide us through crucial times, perhaps a psychiatrist, a spiritual minister, a shiek, "one who helps to kindle our hearts." Dunne spoke of Dante needing both Virgil and Beatrice to help him through his 
DEAR GRATEFUL FRED, . (and all other W isemen ), Shalom and Merry Christmas No. 5 from the one in white. 
Many electric returns !I Your FAVORITE fan, · Andy I Bonzo 
J. Aloer: 
Jet woman Is no longer true to you alone. 
Strung loose, One year ago today · remember? I wont forge!. Someday... Todd 
Patricia. My 21st and 22nd have hod a 
special significance. Thank you. ove. Rick 
M.P.O. Happy 4 seasons. Love, Your Queen of Hearts 
Hi from Angers CSUNDEF land) to Jim. Rose & anyone else w110 re­members me. 
Good luck to Women's Tennis Team' Pam L. 
Mike Gassman. Did you get our card? · Katie and Metiss,, 
Ombudsman Party: Sat. April J Those wilD have not paid may drop ott money at OM desk today bPtor;, 5:00. 
Deo:1r Si11ad Boy: Thanks ag,lin tor the shoollnq session. Your tee was reasonable. Mary 
Kathleen, There ain't nothing you can't do...even at 21. Amore, Corbinini 
Taco, Haley's Comet. and Sly Lilian, Thanks for the birlhday ,wish. I really tried, but couldn't get fried. 
P.C. 
To the Guitar Learnler, 
I really en joyed helping you put on you 'G' 5tring can't wait till next time. 
G.C. 
• 


First scrimmage begins tommorrow 
.. ' 
Defens:;.~ line coach Joe Yonto gives pointers to g practice. Tomorrow the 
Irish scrimmage for the first time this spring. (Photo by Mike Kron) 

Tennis team comes from behind to defeat Western Michigan, 5-4 
by Tom Powanda soundlv defeated Western Michi­Hainline had continued to add gan's Tom Mitchel. Playingexcel­Learman to his list of beaten lent tennis. it took Horan only two opponents as he took the Western 
set~ to end his match. The final Michigan Bronco in straight setsThe Notre Dame tennis picked score was 6-2. 6-2 giving the Irish 6-J. 6-3.
their fifth victory of the season 
their third victory of the match.
yesterday by def~ating a stuborn Number one singles player Rick 
Notre Dame ~till needed two out of
Western Michigan team. 5-4. For Slager was forced to sit out of 
the remaining three matches to
the Irish. now supporting a 5-3 yesterday's contest because of a 
post a victory.

record. it was the third win in a sore arm suffered on the team's 
Tony Bruno. a sophomore from
row. road trip to Maryland last week­
Arrowhead High School in Milwau­
Putting themselves in a hole in end. Because of the injury each of 
kee, Wis. was next to take to the
the early going. the netters were the singles players were forced to 
tennis court. As a freshman last
forced to take five out of the six move · up a spot but the Irish 
year Bruno saw limited action whilt 
singles matches to pull out a adjusted very well to the change.compiling a 2-2 record. This year.
victory. Needless to say they got it Doubles was also a problem as as sophomores Tony Bruno and particularly yesterday afternoon. Slager was Stehlik's partner. Three Bruno showed no signs of inexper­
Brian Hainline both came through new doubles teams had to be 
ience as he soundly defeated his
in the clutch for the Irish. formed and that may have been From the outset the matches reason for Notre Dame's poor
Western Michigan ~pponent Scott 
Few in straight sets 6-3. 6-3. This
were close but the Irish Juld not showing in those three contests. 
avenged his second doubles loss
win the big points as they lost the 
first two doubles slots. Randy earlier in the afternoon and evened The Irish now have to play four
• 
Stehlik and Mike O'Donnell, play­the match score at four matches matches in five days. Tomorrow the ing number one doubles for the apiece going into the final match of nettcrs will host DePaul at 2 p.m. the contest. Saturday
Irish. were defeated in three sets On Notre Dame travels losing the final set in a close 7-5 The only remaining match was east to Ohio to take on Cincinnati decision. the contest between Brian Hainline while on Sunday they travel south The second doubles team of of Notre Dame and Bob Lcarman to Bloomington to take on the Hainline and Bruno were also from Western Michigan. Not only Hoosiers of Indiana. Starting times beaten in three sets as they lost a was the prc~surc of the match on in these matches are 1:30 p.m. and heartbreaking 7-6 tie-breaker. the young suphomorc from Brother I p.m. respectively. The Irish With little resistance in the third Rice High School in Detroit. Mich. netters return home on Tuesday. doubles slot the Irish were down but up to this point Hainline had April 6 to host the University of 3-0 in a best-of-nine match. A accumulated seven straight victor­Wisconsin (Oshkosh). Starting tine 
victory could only be secured by ies in singles for the Irish this year. will be 3 p.m. taking five out of the remaining six matches. Junior Randy Stehlik faced Tony 

Irish nine to start season 
Lamerato in the first singles match. Lamcrato and Bob Learman had alreadv beaten Stehlik and O'Don­

with Sunday doubleheader 
nell in doubles. A victory for Lamerato would virtually wrap up Leading the Huskie returnees is
Beating the major league clubs 
the match for the Broncos. Losing outfielder Chris Bourjos who batted
to the punch by a week the Irish 
the first set 6-4, Stehlik won the .304 last season and pounded six
baseball team opens up its home 
second set. Stehlik broke serve home runs. Northern Illinois did
schedule Sunday afternoon with a 1 
twice tc take the set easily 6-3. not make a spring trip and is
p.m. doubleheader against North­
Losing 2-1 in the next set, Stehlik scheduled to open its season Satur­
ern Illinois. ''The weatherman 
scored what turned out to be the day with Wisconsin-Oshkosh.
says we should have good weather 
point of the match. Being caught The Irish were 3-6 on their spring
on Sunday." commented coach 
out of position. Stehlik returned the swing to Alabama. Kelly has
Tom Kelly yesterday as the rain 
ball with a behind the back shot. indicated that senior co-captain
drizzled down on Cartier Field. "I 
winning the point. Stehlik took Bob Stratta will start one of
hopeso, l'dlike to get these games
control of the set and the match Sunday's games. Stratta lost his
in and get our pitchers some 
from that point and !>eemed to pia:: only decision of the trip 3-0 to Ohio 
work."' almo~t llawles!> tennis. He wot. State with all the runs unearned.
If it's work the Notre Dame 
c~ily to give the Irish a chance at He allowed only six hits in twelve
pitchers crave they should get it in 
innings overall.

the next week as the Irish have 
Lcfthander Don Wolfe who shut­
Whtle Stehlik was playing. sen­eight games slated in as many out Alabama 5-0 on the last gameior Dave Wheaton was adding days. 
:tnother victory to the Irish side of 
of the journey will start the other the scorecard as he beat Fritz Dyer Opening things up are the Hus­
game. Wolfe lost his other decision to Auburn.
in straight sets. The victory was not kies from DcKalb who finished as easy as it might seem as both 20-17 last season including an 8-8 The Irish will go on the road most pla~·ers were playing erratic. In the record in the Mid-American Con­of next week playing a single game first set, Wheaton won 7-6 in a ference. Three-quarters of NIU's at Valparaiso on Tuesday and going tiebreaker and won the second set infield is gone to graduation in­to Bradley for a three game series, easily, 6-2. cluding first baseman Jay Grazi­one on Friday and two on Saturday. 
.\ freshman then got into the act ano, the Mid-Am Triple Crown Notre Dame returns home on as Marty Horan from Worthington winner in 1975 (.379, 10 homers. 39 Sunday to host Toledo in another 1 High School in Worthington, Ohio RBI). p.m. twinbill. 
by Fred Herbst Sports Editor 

With the first week of spring practice behind it, the Notre Dame football 
team holds its first scrimmage of the year tomorrow at 1:30 p.m. on 
Cartier Field. 
The major change of Jim Browner to safety is not the only switch that 
the Irish have made. Besides the shift of Ted Burgmeier from split end.•o 
cornerback and the move of Jim Weiler from halfback to tight end H1e 
other changes are generally minor. John Dubenetzky has been moved •o 
tackle. Dave Huffman, who labored at tackle last season, has been shifted 
to center in another move by the Irish coaching staff. 
The Notre Dame depth chart going into tomorrow's scrimmage 1s interesting, but may not be overly important since there are likely to be a number of changes in the starting lineup before the season opens·t:1is fall. 
The first team offensive line is composed of Ken MacAfee at tight enJ, Steve McDaniels and Moore at the tackles, Ernie Hughes and Mike Carney at the guards, Vince Klees at center and Kris Haines at split enJ. 
Rick Slager is listed as the first team quarterback, but he injured his arm playing tennis yesterday and is not expected to take part in tomorrow's scrimmage. Gary Forystek is listed as Slager's backup. AI Hunter and Mark McLane are at the halfbacks and Jerome Heavens is at fullback to round out the first-team backfield. Joe Montana w s expected to be first team quarterback, but he injured his ankle in· 1 basketball game and has yet to take part in any drills other than throwi11 
Jay Case has moved into the spot vacated by Steve Niehaus in tl defensive line. He's joined at tackle by Jeff Weston, and at the ends b• Willie Fry and Ross Browner. Doug Becker and Bob Golic are listed a·~ first team linebackers while Pete Johnson and John Dubenetzky are listed as even for the remaining position. The secondary is composed of Luth• r Bradley and Ted Burgmeier at the corners, Randy Harrison at free safety with Jim Browner and Mike Banks rated even at strong safety. 
While tomorrow's scrimmage is the team's first, it isn't the last. 1i1e team will scrimmage nearly every Wednesday and Saturday, weather permitting, for the remainer of the spring session. 
*Observer 





Sports 
'Stuff it' say rulemakers, 'but only during games' 
by The Associated Press Memphis State's Wayne Yates said it would add "a new dimen­When Karecm Abdul-Jabbarstill sion to the game. both for the fans was known as Lew Alcindor, the and the coaches. I think it's a slam dunk still was one of collcg·~ super move on the part of the rules 
basketball's most exciting me· committee. It is long overdue." ments. Then the lords of the spor But Abc Lemons. Texas' new outlawed it. coach. voiced strong opposition. Now it's back. And. for the mos', "I think putting the dunk back in part. college coaches love it. is a big mistake," he said. It was before the 1966-6 7 season when Lew Alcindor was blossoming 
Lacrosse team

into one of the most dominant centers in the game. that the stuff shot was made illegal. From then defeats Purdue on. those with the ability to dun>· 
by Tom Bingle

had to be as gentle with the ba:. around the hoop as their smalle, teammates. 
The Notre Dame Lacrosse TeamNow they can crash away to thei­continued its winning ways Wed­hearts' content--as long as the) lesday, bombing a defenselessdon't pull down the backboard in ,urdue squad, 11-1.

the process. 
From the opening face-off, theIn fact, the National Basketball ~tickmen completely dominatedRules Committee. which voted :ction as they vaulted to an 8-0Wednesday in Philadelphia to al­

halftime lead. In this half, attack­low dunking during the games of man Bob Thibodeau and midfielder

the 1976-77 season, took one step 
Mike Kinsella were Irish pacesett­to at least cut down on that ers scoring three goals apiece whilepossibility. 

co-captain Don Trabert contributed

The dunk was made legal only two ·markers. 
during games. A technical foul will The Irish refused to ease up onbe called on any player who makes 
the hapless Boiler-makers in thea stuff during pre-game warm-ups second half, as they controlled play or. intermissions. 

at both ends. Attackman PatThe rule-makers also decided Clynes and midfielders John Ro­that two free throws, instead of manelli and Mark Connelly addedone. will be awarded when a coach single tallies to conclude the well­is slapped with a technical. 

balanced attack.

Alabama Coach C.M. Newton The convincing victory was asaid the reinstatement of the dunk 
tribute to the stingy play by the was "really going to be a great defense. Co-captain John Fatti,change." 

Mark Carberry. Chris Bowe, DanThat was pretry much the view of Welch and Jim Williams, were ablecoaches around the nation. 

to tie up the visitors. as the frustrated Boilermakers managed

Midnight deadline 
just five shots against goalies Steve Martinez and Jim Scarola. 
The team is undefeated in four games this spring. The members 

Registration for the Bookstore will travel to Bowling Green, on basketball tournament ends tonight Saturday, to battle the nationally at midnight. To sign up for the ranked Falcons in what should be a tournament call Tim Bourret at real test to their unblemished 3470. record. 
tor Iron Man five 




