
server 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's
Vol. XI, No. 39 Tuesday, November 2, 1976 
Roemer throws seven off campus for parties 
things went on all semester.
by Chris Smith ''That kind of iifestyle--oddAsst. Managing Editor 

hours, loud music, parties with alcohol --belongs off-campus. The
Regulation one of Notre Dame's group as a whole caused problemsUniversity rules and regulations. as for the hall," Roemer continued.
listed in Du Lac, the guide to Therefore, the seven were givenstudent life states: The University the notice to find housing off-cam­reserves the right to transfer a pus.
student's residence. Dean of Dean Roemer added, however,Students James Roemer did just "None of them are in any disciplin­that to seven residents of Sorin Hall ary trouble. INdividually, theylate last week, resulting in surprise aren't irresponsible, but the group
and tlairing of tempers among as a whole caused problems for the other Sorin residents. 
hall. They have simply been
The seven from Sorin, were shifted off-campus.'' He empha­given written notice by Roemer on sized that there will be no record inThursday morning that they were their student records of any disci­to be out of Sorin by six p.m. 
plinary action.
Sunday. Oct. 31 and were "never 
to set foot into Sorin for the rest of The Seven Relate Their Side 
(their) undergraduate lives at Notre 
Dame." 
When members of the group had sevon tyoewritten letters stat­hall lounge." warnings given. and thev were According to Dean Roemer, the were interviewed, they expressed ing that we ~ere out of Sorin Hall. Gibbons concluded. "We feel as taken as a sign of intimidaiion ... 
seven had a four-room suite on shock that the punishment was so and that we were never to step foot though we're getting hurt for "There were repeated in­third floor Sorin, which included a 
severe. They centered upon an in Sorin again. We were never tr~;-tng to '1mprove the hall." cidents ... related Bob Tracey. the large circular room. This room incident involving a keg as the approached for our side of the second floor resident assistant. "the turret room, was fixed up, primary cause of their punishment. story.'' No Warning ''The entire group met with the hall 
pannelled and set up as a bar. It One of the seven, Sean Gibbons, Gibbons added, "I would guess staff on one occasion." he added. 
was called the Doo Drop Inn," he a senior, explained that one of his that over break they just decided The seven said they were un­Jim Dragna, the R.A. in the said. 
suite-mates, "carried out an empty what they were going to do. We aware they were considered a section where the seven lived 
''They had parties. They bro­keg the Saturday of the Oregon thought that we would be given problem in Sorin Hall. agreed that. "there were informai ught up a keg for one party. A Game, at about seven p.m." some kind of reprimand or punish­Roemerstate. "At the beginning and formal warnings given. We rather loud, rowdy atmosphere According to Gibbons, the keg was ment when we saw Roemer." of the semester I called one of the had hall staff meetings --some­surrounded the Doo Drop Inn. seen by third floor Sorin resident "What we're so upset about," guys into my office. I told him times until four in the morning -­
Thus, they are violating University assistant, Jim Dragna. The stu­continued Bartlett, ''is the way 'One more incident, and you're out over this group. Warnings were regulations." This was one of the dent carrying the keg reportedly they went about it. We were only of Sorin.' given. The thing built up. It went charges Roemer placed against the asked Dragna about the possibility given four days Thurs­"The entire hall staff was con­too far. Finally. we had· to go to 
s~ven. 
that a fine might be levied for the day through Sunday --to find cerned. They repeatedly warned Roemer," he said. However, there were more char­possession of the keg. someplace to stay." them. It got down to who was in When the case went to the dean, ges levelled by the dean. "Con­Another one of the seven, Jeff Gibbons said, "We took an control of the hall.'· Roemer decided that all seven tinued use of fireworks in the hall 
Bartlett, quotes Dragna as saying, active part in the hall. Jeff Bartlett: Gibbons and Gulyas belonged off-campus. 
and out the windows, to the extent "This is more serious than just a (Bartlett) was a section leader. each demed ever having been Roemer's decision was viewed that carpeting and walls were fine." More than a week later, Three of us played interhall football contacted about their behavior. "If .vith anger by many Sorin Hall burnt," was one allegation. An­related Bartlett, ·'we all got letters for Sorin. I was on the hall judicial p~ople were complaining, I would nembers. When the students were other was, "water balloons and stating that we were to be in Dean board." He added that another thmk they'd tell us, but they ~iven their notice to move. Fr. 
beer bottles were thrown out the Roemer's office the next morning. one of the seven had conducted the didn't," said Gibbons in reference }reen and the hall staff attempted window and fireworks were launch­
When we arrived in his office, his annual Red Cross Blood drive in to the hall staff. o lessen tension by not comment· ed out the window. These kinds of decision was already made. He Sorin. Fr. Greg Green, rector of Sorin, ng on the issue. These two factors 

Exam survey to be conducted 
by Mary Ann Tighe If the length of exams was· a 
Staff Reporter problem -one hour being insuffi­cient -then a return to last year's open-ended evening exams was also proposed at the meeting. 
Preliminary efforts are underway Kee also noted methods of o conduct a student-wide survey testing might be a source of oncerning the controversial8 a.m. dissatisfaction among students tak­departmental examination policy, ing 8 a.m. departmentals. "Ob­~ccording to Nancy Cox, Farley viously teachers have had to adjust ~all academic commissioner. tests and testing techniques," Cox 
At a recent meeting with Mike commented. Passman, student body president, Pat Tack, student government ~ox and Tracy Kee, Farley Hall academic commissioner, will work president, proposed a survey to on the survey with Cox and Kee. ~etermine whether students were At present, she is also having ~atisfied with the present exam Academic Council representatives policy. If the students indicate they check within their respective col­are dissatisfied, the survey will also leges and report any specific seek student opinion regarding problems. For example, students 
easons for dissatisfaction and in the Business College might have possible alternatives. different opinions concerning the "The survey is a tool." Kee said. exam schedule from those in 
"There is a lot of question about Freshman Year of Studies. lhow students feel.'' According to Kee, the intended 
Cox noted many people are not survey on current examination !affected by the Tuesday and Thurs­policy will pr.obably be ready for day morning departmentals while January and will be distributed Kee added the poll would also through the Hall Presidents' Coun­·ndicate what portion of the student cil. She warned, however, that it [body is involved. would not be acted upon until One negative aspect often cited spring, approximately one year egarding the current examination after University Provost Fr. James ~chedule is that 8 a.m. is too early Burtchaell prohibited evening de­
or testing. ·Cox and Kee suggest­partmentals and reserved the ed departmentals could be sche­8TT10 time period for the schedul­duled from 4:15 p.m. to 5:30 p.m. ing of departmentals. on Tuesdays and Thursdays. In the meantime, Cox urged all Classes usually held at that time students who wish to report opin­
ould be conrh 'nd at 8 a.m. The ions on departmental testing to exams could also be held for one contact Gassman, Tack, Cox or hnnr in the PvPnino Kee. 
George Gulyas, another member stated that the seven, "have been 1ave created resentment toward of the group commented, "Our talked to on many occasions this rr. Green and the R.A. 's in Sorin. suite was always open for anyone to year." Sorin Basement R.A., However, the seven were already come in." A friend of his stated Thomas Kwiecien concurred with being reviewed by Dean Roemer at that the suite was, "more or less a Fr. Green. He said, "There were -(continued on page 9) 
Major networks to broadcast election results tonight 
by Barbara Breltersteln states, are: 118 eletoral votes were still rated 
PoUtlcal Writer Connecticut, where in recent "tos.>-ups."
elections a close race has indicated 

According to the Times, "Of For many Notre Dame and Saint a close race nationwide; New York, the nine tossup states, Connecti­Mary's students who voted by with 41 electoral votes. a "must cut, Iowa, Mississippi. New Mexico absentee ballot, the choice between win" state for Carter; the South, Oaklahoma and South Dakota have 
Presidential candidates Jimmy Carter's home region, where Ford 39 electora votes among them. 
Carter and Gerald Ford is over. hope to break his opponent's "solid Assuming roughly an even splitBut most Americans will be making South"; the industrial North. New Carter would have 241 votes, 29 that choice today, and students Jersey pennsylvania, Ohio and short of a majority and ford would 
here will be watching national Michigan, which make up 90 have 218, or 52 short of a majority.
television for the results. electoral votes and include Ford's "In that situation each man 
As the votes are tabulated home state; IJiinois, which has would need to win two of the three 
tonight, all three major networks voted for the winning candidate in big states considered too close to 
wi'l be predicting who the winner every .election except 1916, and call -Pennsylvania, with 27 elec­w,ll be from projections of state holds 26 votes; Texas a "must 
toral votes, lllinois, with 2b and results. While 538 electoral votes win" for Ford; and California, with Texas, also with 26 unless Carter 
are at stake, the winning candidate the largest umber of electoral votes picked up a small state he is not 
needs only 270 for a majority. in a single state, 45, and the last now expected to take," the Times 
state to report returns, as possibly 

story concludes.
According to an election guide" 
the deciding vote if the race is 

Most polls are saying thein Newsweek magazine, those 270 close. 
election is "too close to call."
votes and network predictions will 
''The vote is so close and so soft,be determined in seven key areas, According to the final Gallup you have to go right down to theincluding the Northeastern and poll, reported yesterday in the New wire," pollster Louis Harris said. 
Midwestern states. York Times, the race is "a virtual And, the Associated Press re­
tie." The survey showed ford 

"If either candidate takes a ported yestrerday, "no one could
ahead with 47 percent to Carter's 

commanding lead in these areas, be certain what factors might be
46 percent and 4 percent undeci­

the networks should project a decisive ones in the presidential
ded but a one-point difference is winner before midnight,'' Richard contest."
without statistical significance, 

Steele and hal Bruno report. With the race this close, many
allowing a margin for error. 

"Otherwise, the outcome may not American will be watching tonight 
A New York Times poll showed 

to learn the results of today'sbe known until close to dawn." states with 222 electoral votes solid 
Voting trends to note while voting and who the next President
for or leaning to Carter and 198 watching election results, the guide of the United States will be.
votes solid or leanipg to Ford. But the observer Tuesday, November 2, 1976 

---News Briefs--...... 
l'========================-International 
Mobs attend IRA funeral 
BELFAST-An estimated 10.000 persons turned out in icy rain ye~tcrday for the funeral of Maire Drumm, a political leader of the lri~h Republican Army who was assassinated in a hospital. Prote~tant gunmen have been blamed for the slaying last Thursday. 
A mob of about 500 Catholic teenagers stoned a fortified police base out~ide Milltown Cemetery for half an hour after the funeral. That wa~ the only immediate outbreak of trouble. 
.:::-:====================================National !(:ourt censors Prosecutor 
WASHINGTON -The Supreme Court agreed yesterday to decide ,, hal pr<hcculors can and cannot say during closing arguments of ,, ial~ in which the defendant faces a possible death sentence. I hndorc. 1he court said it will review the murder conviction of a !·lorida man sentenced to death who claims "inflammatory remarks by the trial prosecutor deprived him of a fair trial. 
~ssasin sentenced to life thrice 
WASHINGTON, Pa. -Aubran Wayne Martin, convicted of murder live years ago in the assassination of United Mine Workers rebel .Joseph Yablonski, was sentenced yesterday to three l'onsecutivc life terms. 
WASHINGTON-The U.S. Department of Interior has designated 13 caves in five states as the "critical habitat" for the Indiana bat. The creature. though numbering several hundred thousand. is considered an endangered species because there's a scarcity of the special kinds of caves in which it lives during the winter. 

'-On Campus Today-.. 
10 dill ­
[) prn 
4:{() pm 
7 pm, Y~1[) 
11: .W pm 
7 .Hl pn1 
7:30 Jllll­2 am 
polls open until 6 pm today 
isis gallery. etchings and drawings of ran schaefer. 
seminar. "world food: climate, technology, population" by dr. grant cottam, univ. of wisconsin. galvin aud. coffee at 4 pm. 
film. "the wind and the lion". engineering aud. 
sponsored by sailing club. 
panel discussion. "the drive for power" with michael j. crowe, n.d.; bernard norling, n.d., & thomas I. theis, n.d. library lounge. sponsored by college of science. 
meeting. charismatic prayer meeting. · Iafortune student center room 2-d. 
wsnd election coverage live from Iafortune. ten minute reports every half hour. 
i
I 
j
I 
1. 
Ii l: ~~® 
~--~ Openi~g soon, is now accepting applications! from neat, well-groomed individ~als. Positions . available: hosts, hostesses, waitresses, wa1t­ers, bartenders, service assistants, cooks and 
dishwash~;554 us 31 North 
Disease hits 




Florida palms endangered 

believed caused by bacteria carried by insects. 
"We're working on it stronger than ever," said Dr. Henry M. Donselman, ornamental horticul­turalist and a member of a scienti­fic team at the University of Florida's Agricultural Re­search Center. 
"But unless we come up with a miracle c·:.e in the next year or two, the rest of them are going to be wiped out," he said. 
So scientists are turning much of their attention to the Maypan, a new and graceful palm tree that may replace the coconut palms. Donselman said the Maypan is a cross between the female Malayan dwarf palm and the male Panama tall palm. 
"It was developed in Jamaica and they can't spare very many of them," Donselman said. "But we got some seeds and wo:: have about 150 of them growing here." 
Donselmen said the Maypan is similar in appearance to the _coco­nut palm, but it has an 86 percent resistance to lethal yellowing. 

But Donselman said that under the best circumstances, the May­pan won't be available to the general public for at least five years. 
Lethal yellowing first was found in the Florida Keys in the 1950's. In 1972, it reached the Miami suburb of Coral Gables and quickly spread throughout the region. 
"So far, it's killed 90 percent of the coconut palms in Dade County Miami and SO percent on the whole East Coast," he said. "And it's not just killing coconut palms, it's getting 18 different varieties." 
He said injections of the antibio­tic tentracycline help prevent the disease, but is recommended only for use as a delaying tactic until new trees are grown. 
"We're still working on lethal yellowing because coconuts are listed in the top five economic plants around the world,'' Donsel­man said. 
Pollard gets appointment to new Cancer committee 
Notre Dame cancer researcher Dr. Morris Pollard has been ap­pointed chairman of the National Cancer Institute's new committee on Tumor Immunology for 4-pplica­
tions to Cancer Cause and Preven­tion. 
The committee intends to de­velop research concepts which could be used to stimulate natural rejection of tumors, taking advan­tage of natural immunity instead of relying on chemical treatment of cancer. Pollard said prevention, rejection or control of cancer might be achieved by stimulating the body's immune mechanism. He 
ThP ob,Prver" puhi!ShPd Monddy through I nddy and W!'l'kly dunng the summpr \1'~51011, extept dunng th!' I'Xdlll and vdcat1on pPnods The Ohs!'rver IS puhl1~h!'d by studPnts of thP Un!v!'rsJty of Nolrl' Dam!' dnd St Mdry's CoiiPgl' Subscriptions mdy be purchdsl'd for $20 per yPar ($10 per sem!'ster) from The Obs!'r­ver, Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 Second class postagP pa1d, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 
The Observer is a memb!'r of the Associat!'d PrPss All 
.

,..-------~•Could you use two G.A.Ttckets~ 

~ to the N.D.-Alabama Game??~ 
~ t  HERE'S HOW YOU CAN GET THEM ABSOLUTELY  
.·~  FREE!!  
~  
1) Be the St. Mary's student who has the best idea for a theme for the dedication  
"­·tlt  of the new athletic building (set for sometime this spring). Give us a hint as to how you would develop this theme for a SUPER celebration. 2)SubmitthisideatoP.O.Box1677orroom308McCandless. Wemusthavethe  
~  written suggestion in our hands by Noon, Thursday, Nov. 4.  
.,. .C  
"  
~  Questions: Call 5779 or 5373.  
1 277-3766 ~ • 


~ 

a * *
*
* 
~ 
l' 
~ ~ 
~

* 
'-,~*****************************
. Equal Opportunity Employer 
Tuesday, November 2, 1976 

the observer 

London, Rome highlight SMC summer program 
by Karen Ann Zalecki Staff Reporter 

The summer of '77 is the right time to see Europe. Saint Mary's College is sponsoring a summer abroad program this year in Lon­don and Rome. 
The program is open to all College or University students as well as their friends and relatives. Students interested in receiving college credit can register for one or more of the courses that will be offered and can receive a maximum of six credits. Courses will be offered in Art, Theater, History and Architecture. 
l'rofessor Anthony R. Black, associate professor of history at Saint Mary's, specializes in Euro­pean History andhas been involved in this type of student travel for the past seven years. The program originally began as a between semester course and it was formed, according to Black, "to give the students the chance not only to see Europe, but alsc. to enable them to understand the historical signifi­cance of what they are seeing." 
The program is described by Black as bein~ for students who ''want to travel m Europe not only for the experience abroad, involv­ing a diferent language and cul­ture, but also to probe beneath the surface in order to investigate, to learn and to appreciate more complex European problems, thus gaining historical insights into political issues, social structures and problems and current econo­mic challenges." 
The London Program from May 24 to June 24 includes travel in Ireland, Scotland,· England and .france. The trip begins from John 
F. Kennedy International Airport in New York, heading for Ireland. Among the historical sights to be visited in Ireland are the Blarney Castle, the Dublin Castle, the National Museum in Dublin, and Kilmainham Jail. Students will travel from Ir~land to Liverpool, England via an overnight steamer. Black commented that the trip across the Irish Sea is "always an enjoyable and interesting part of the program." From Liverpool the students will travel to Edinburgh, Scotland. 
The majority of the trip will be spent in London. Class will be offered in the morning which leaves the remainder of the day free for sightseeing and shopping. In the London Program students can choose from courses in the Art, History, and Speech and Drama departments. the art and history courses are offered for two credits. A third credit can be obtained by writing a research paper. The speech and drama course is offered for three credits. 
While in London, all major points of interest will be visited including the Tower of London, Westminster Abbey, the British Museum, Buck­ingham Palace and the Parliament Building. Half and full day trips, on chartered buses, will be made to 
Canterbury, Dover, Salisbury, Windsor,and Stratford-upon-Avon. 
The trip concludes with a stay in Paris. Notre Dame Cathedral, the 
Women sports receive evaluation 
By Mary Ann Layden Staff Reporter 

You've come a long way, baby, to get where you got to today with two varsity level sports this year, and great expectations for two more next year. But you've still got a long way to go. 
Summing up the women's sports situation here as stated in the Self-Evaluation Plan of the Notre Dame Athletic Program, ''Progress 
•in women's athletics is considered excellent in intramural. club and recreational activities. Progress at the varsity level is rated fair to good considering women have been on campus for only four years." 
Col. -John Stephens, assistant athletic director, wrote the self-e­valuation in consulta­tion with members of the athletic staff in each area such as tutoring, coaching and publicity. 
When 365 women came here four years ago, some participated on the intramural level in basket­ball, tennis, track and volleyball and with the crew and sailing clubs. In 1972, Edward "Moose" Krause, athletic director, asked Dominick Napolitano, director of non-varsity sports, to set up a plan for incorporating women into the intramural and club sports pro­gram. 
In 1974 the Athletic Department 
hired Astrid Hotvedt as the first 
Coordinator of Women's Sports. 
Last year, with 1340 female under­
graduates, women competed in 
eight intramural and eight club 
sports. 
The Notre Dame self-evaluation 
proposes to establish two addition­
al intercollegiate sports for women, 
field hockey and basketball, in 
1977-1978 and to continue to evalu­
ate volleyball, golf, swimming and 
softball to determine suitability for 
varsity level. 
Title IX of the 1972 Educational 
Amendments Act, which prohibits 
discrimination on the basis of sex in 
all federally funded education pro­
grams, requires institutions that · 
are recipients of federal funds to 
conduct a self-evaluation to identify 
sex discrimination by July 21, 1976. 
The Title IX Self-evaluation is 
the first and most important step in ' 
achieving a comprehensive com­
pliance guaranteeing equal oppor­
tunity for women. During the 
three-year period, progress should 
be made to insure this equality. 
The goal of Title IX, which 
means change to all and confusion 
to most, is not to make women's 
sports a carbon copy of men's 
sports, but to learn from the flaws 
of both and combine the best of 
men's and women's sports ideals 
and functional programs. 
The philosophy, as stated in the 
Self-evaluation Plan "holds the
'. 
benefits of participation in sports invaluable to the 't,Jtal education of men and women. Through athletic endeavors the individual, female and male, develops specific sports skills, group interdependence. self­reliance, respect and decision­making. There are no sex barriers here. Our policy will be the adoption of saue and reasonable guidelines and practices in the establishment of equal opportunity for women in our athletic pro­grams." 
In order to achieve equal oppor­tunity, the Notre Dame Self-evafu-­ation proposes to increase the number of women's varsity sports, hire more women coaches and appoint a woman staff member in the Sports Information Depart­ment. Money for women's athle­tics will come from the sports budget and revenue-produc­ing sports. 
Stephens commented, "We feel that we're making excellent pro­gress in the field of intercollegiate sports." 
Hotvedt also said Notre Dame is making good progress. On Title IX she said, "Today those who still hang on to the male tradition are those who will feel that they are forced i.lto .:oeducation. Today more people feel this commitment toward coeducation and do not feel forced because they feel it to be reasonable." 
According to the memorandum "On the Elimination of Sex Discri­mination in Athletic Programs" the Department of Health, Education and Welfare (HEW) sent to univer­sity presidents, the self-evaluation must l)compare the current prac­tices of the sports program to the requirements of Title IX regulation. '2) determine the interests of both <>exes in the sports to be offered and 3) develop a plan to accom­modate those interests. 
The report lllust study ten areas including the nature and extent of sports programs, publicity, the opportunity to receive coaching and tutoring assignments, the provision of medical and training facilities and services and scholarships. 
This year women have 16 inter­collegiat:: fencing meets !)lanned. (continued on page 8) 
AN OUNCING. NICKlES ELECTION DAY SPECIAL 
6-BPM 7&7's Gin & Tonics Rum & Cokes Screwdrivers
25¢ 
TONIGHT ONLY!! 
See Wednesday's Observer for our new LADY'S NITE SPECIAL 
Louvre and the Eiffel Tower are just a few of the places on the agenda to be visited. Black stated that "it is not necessary to return with the group on June 24." Students can participate in the Rome Program or they can conti­nue to travel on their own. 
The cost of the trip is $997 and covers all air,land and sea travel to and from New York (1,048 to and from Chicago) and within Britain, France and Ireland. All meals are also included. 
The Rome Program, from June 24 through July 22, begins in Paris and involves travel by chartered bus through eastern France, south­west Germany, Switzerland, sever­al areas of northern Italy and Rome. During the two-week stay in Rome all the historical sights will be visited including the Forum, Pantheon, Baths of Diocletian and Caracalla, Vatican and Saint Peter's Basilica. The cost of the trip is 1,150 and covers all ordinary expenses including air travel to and from New York and travel in France, Germany, Switzerland and Italy as well as living accomoda­tions and meals. 

Black stated friends and relatives of the participants are welcome on the program. "In the past there have been students from Arizona, Alabama. Maryland, Wisconsin. Purdue and Eastern Michigan vniversities. For further informa­tion, any interested student can contact Professor Anthonv R. Black at his office at 346 Made-leva Hall. Saint Mary'•, College or by phoning 
284-4948  during  the  day  and  
272-3726 in the e vening  or  week­ 
end.  


SMC to sponsor lecture on women in management 
by Honey McHugh Staff Reporter 
Women in Sales Management is the topic for discussion at the next Career Development Center Sem­inar. Sponsored by Saint Mary's College, the seminar will be held Wednesday. Nov. 3 at 6:30p.m. in room 353 Madeleva Hall. 
The featured guests will be Carol Collins. 1974 Saint Mary's gra­duate currently employed by Gen­eral Foods, and Greg Weismantel from the General Foods office in Chicago. Collins, a humanistic studies major, will speak on her 
views  regarding  women  in  sales  
management.  
''I'm so glad that  we  can  make  

this program available to the students," stated Karen O'Neil, Saint Mary's Career Development Center director. "We would like to particularly encourage liberal arts majors to attend. Carol was not a business major, yet she has cer­tainly made good use of her liberal arts background." 

The program is being co-spon­sored by Saint Mary's Career Development Center, ·the Notre Dame Placement Bureau and Saint Mary's Business Club. It will be open to Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students and facultv. For further information call 284:4431. 
Rape reported on NO campus 
A woman student from Notre Dame reported to the St. Joseph County Sheriff's Office late Sunday She had been raped while walking on the outer southern edge of the Notre Dame campus. 
She described her assailant as a male about 40 and wearing a brown leather outer garment. The victim was treated at Memorial Hospital and ~eleased. St. Joseph County Shertff' s deputies are investiga­ting. 





IS THERE LIFE AFTER COLLEGE? 
It depends on what "life" means.... For most of us, life is a good job, a good wife, a good house, a good car. 
For some (and perhaps for you) this is not ~nough. The "good life" somehow is not enough. Life must mean some­tl;aing different: the attempt to live in union with God, to serve others, to give as totally and as generously as you can. 
The Paulists offer a way of life which can satisfy y0 ung men who seek more than the "good life." As a small community of Catholic priests, we have worked for over a century throughout the United States and Canada-from Manhattan to Toronto, from Greensboro to Houston, from Los Angeles to Fairbanks. Our mission? To speak the message of Jesus Christ to this modern world: to communicate His shattering love and overwhelming forgiveness in a time and world where He so often seems absent. ­
To do so, we are actively involved in parish work. preach­ing, adult education, campus ministry, publishing and mass communications. We .are missionaries; we are bridge­builders. We seek to serve the Gospel in ever new ways. 
The Paulist life is not an easy one. But one who dares will find rewaqfs beyond expectati'On, satisfactions bey.<]nd dreams. But not complete satisfaction, for we are cons-tly searching to make the Gospel real to more people in today's world. 
Don't let your idt•alism die. Discover what our comm~nity can mean to you.. 
f.lll out the c ·upon below for more Information about the·Pauliats. 
-·

--·------------------­
Dear Father l)eSiano: Plt'ase send me mo.e ln1ormatlon on the 1110rk RPV. Frank OfSianu.l ~ P • of the Paulists and th~ Paullst Priesthood. · 
Difktor of Vocation• NAML ----­
P~WST F~lltEkS 

o.pt_ 8 114 . .STREET ADDRESS------------­41~JWwl 59!h Slft~l arv 
STATE __ ZIP_ 

~York, N.Y. 10019 . .----_.---­
Cou.EGE AMNDING -----------­
CLA~OF....,.-..----------­
4 




Closed-circuit TV now in operation 
by Karen Rinks jor departmental exams and quiz-second broadcast will be aired in tageous to students in both acade-Reeve, also expressed anticipation Staff Reporter zes," Weber e~plained. "We also Grace Pit. The program is design-mic and non-academic fields. for the program to begin but 
want to supply programs of enter-ed to help students prepare for the Kevin Nicholson, freshman civil-stressed the need for publicity. 
Grace Hall residents can now tainment as well." Chemistry 115 quiz on Friday. engineering major, is optimistic of Reeve said relatively few residents enjoy ·television programs on Sonk said the'system is the final Grace residents can view the the results and participation but are aware of the program and its closed-circuit television, according product of a three-year concentra-program from their 6wn sets. would like the program to get function. 
to student coordinators Tom Weber and Hugh Sonk. _ 
The televised programs include films, documentaries, hall sports and commercials. Also incorpora­ted into the programming will be academic programs and review sessions. 
The closed-circuit system was installed last year in an attempt to provide residents with reviews for major exams and a creative outlook for the dorm. 
''The mai.n objective of this service is to enable students to better prepare themselves for rna­ted plan to encourage creativity in the dorm and to offer a tutoring program for the residents. This is the first year it has been attemp­

ted. 
•'The dorm purchased the equip­ment last year at an estimated cost of $4,000. We encourage any student in the dorm that has a broadcasting background to offer his services,' Sonk commented. 
nre first experimental program was recently aired, starring the Three Stooges. According to coordinators, the program was "enthusiastically" received. Thursday, Nov. 4 at 8 p.m., the 
Domestic disarmanent race loses in Massachusetts 
BOSTON -A statewide "domestic disarmament race," a chance for people to surrender their guns with no questions asked, produced a grand total of one rusty revolver as of yesterday. 
As police departments wiated or the guns that never came, promotors of the turn-in drive admitted that gun owners probably will not give up their weapons unless they are forced to. 
The event was meant to publi­cize a statewide referendum on oday's ballot that would do just that. the referendum calls for a ban on ownership of handguns for e veryone except police and mu­seums. 
The thr.ee day drive began Sunday and continues through today. But a survey of 22 prolice departments Monday showed the drive bei.~_o ignored almost every­where. 
The only report of a weapon turned in was an old, uncared for revolved delivered to the police station in Littleton, a suburb west of Boston. 
"People who bought guns 

bought them for a purpose, and 
they won't turn them in until 
they're against the law," said the 
spokesman, Michael Widmer. 

In Boston and Springfield, the state's two biggest cities, no guns were turned in during the first two days of the program. 
The turn-in program was organ­ized by Gov. Michael S. Dukakis and Sheriff John Buckley of Mid­
dlesex County. Handgun owners must have licenses .in massachu­setts, but police agreed to accept weapons with no questions asked and even pick them up from the homes of people who kep them illegally. 
''Sheriff Buckley through there would be a deluge," said Police chief Bernard Vacon in Stoneham. 
"Personally, I thought we might 10 or 15. I put a sergeant in charge' and had receipts ready, but there hasn't been a one. This shows what people are thinking." 
An aide to Buckley said more 
guns might come in by today but the governor's chief spokesman said he was not surprised by the apparent failure of the program. 
Commodity Merchandising 

As close to the pits as you can get 
The trading floor of the grain exchange is called the "pit:' where fortunes are made and lost every day. The commodity merchandiser works on the fringe of the pits, buying a,id selling grain and other commodities on the cash and futures market. 
As a commodity merchandiser, you deal with millions of dollars every month. You know commodity markets, understand all modes of transportation, know how to hedge. You're decisive, aggressive, autonomous. You're responsible for making a profit. So you're well-paid and 
· ·quickly promoted. . 
General Mills is a two billion dollar-plus corporation. We need commodity merchandisers. We're not looking for just anybody. But we might be looking for you. Bachelor's or master's degrees in finance, business, 
.agricultural economics or accounting are preferred _but not required. Leadership qualities and an entrepreneunal inclination are a must. 
We II train you on the job. And if you have the ability to learn quickly, the desire to thrive in an environment that's always changing, the willingness to succeed or fail on the basis of your own decisions-you could have a bright career ahead of you. A career that offers the opportunity to advance into higher levels of management in many areas of the corporation. 
So if you want to be close to the pits, write us. 
You might like it. We might like you. 
Send a resume and letter of interest to: Douglas M. Robertson Manager of Recruitment General Mills, Inc . 
. P.O. Bo_x 1113 
Minneapolis, Minn. 55440 

General Mills 

Student  reaction  to  the  new  underway  as  sool)  as  possible  so  The student coordinators assure  
system  varied.  Mike  Alfano,  students can take a dvantage of the  the residents the program schedule  
freshman  pre-med  major,  com- service.  will be posted well in advance.  The  
mented the program will be advan- Junior  business  major,  Mike  .  sessions are open to all students.  


Demos expected to retain house 
The Democrats are expected to retain control of the House and Senate. All 435 House seats are up for election, as are 33 Senate seats. Fourteen governorships also will be decided. 
And Ford and Carter aren't the only candidates for the presidency. 
Former Sen. Eugene McCarthy 
would up his campaign as an 
independent candidate for presi­
dent in California where his name 
will not be on the ballot. McCarthy' 
chastised the press for what he 
called its failure to expose "viola­
tions of constitutional freedoms," 
as he described the methods used 
to keep him off the ballot in the 
nation's two largest states, Califor­
nia and New York. 
McCarthy conceded he has no chance of winning, but he said he hopes to get about 5 per cent of the 
vote anyway. 
If McCarthy does that well, it 
could hurt Carter in key states. It is 
as!\umed most of the votes for 
McCarthy will come from Demo­
crats. 
watergate brought about one 
major change in presidential ~am­
paigning, the. method of financJ_ng. 
The Ford and Carter campaigns were financed by $21.8 million in· _pubt1·c funds plus . a,nother $3.2 
·

million from each of the party additional money for his campaign. 
The $25 million available for each man's campaign was far below what was spent by each presidential candidate four years earlier. 
If the poll takers are right in predicting a close election, it could be a long night for people who stay by their television sets to watch the returns until a winner is delcared. 
Carter's greatest strength ap­pears to be in the East and South, where the returns will be available the earliest. But as the night wears on and the returns start coming in from the Midwest and West, Ford's strength should be 'at its height. 
Some early signs of unusual strength for one man or the other might be found in such states as Connecticut, New York, New Jer­sey, Pennsylvania, Virginia, South Carolina and Florida. 
Connecticut usually is among the first states to have complete re­turns. It's considered a toss up in most surverys, and if Carter should that the abortion issue did not hurt 

Car~r as much as some of his 
supporters feared. The state has a 
large Catholic population. 

If Ford should carry New York 
and New Jersey, it's probably all 
(continued on page 11) 
' 

Parietal offenses cause suspension 
Four Notre Dame students w"ill be suspended as a result of a parietals violation, James Roemer, Notre Dame dean of students said yesterday. 
The students will 'finish this semester at the university,. accord­ing to Roemer, but will-not be permitted to return next semester. The four students will be able to petition the up.iver\iity for re­admission next year, Roemer said. 
'Fhe students refused to com­ment either on their suspensions or the details of the alt'eged violations. 
Roemer said he could not release the details of the violation. 
more

national committees. Neither can-• 2915 Mishawaka. Ave: 
~d~id~a~t~e=-~w~a~siat~lo~w~e~d~t~o~ra~i~s:,e~an~y~~-~========-====Jt~~~~~~~~~~~~~
::. 
I 



For College Men Who ThinkThey Can Lead, And Are WiUJng To,Find Out For Sure 
run very strong, it would be a sign ltiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiill 
FAST l 

Thanksgiving with the Notre Dame 
TYPEWRITER I 
Credit Union 
REPAIR 
see ND-vs-So. Cal at Los Angeles. Nov. 24 -Nov. 28 ­
lfl:t:I:U'J•I 
Complete trip: 4 nights and 5 days.
_ • ••• • 
1 
$275.00. For info: Call 
Freshmen, Sophomores & Juniors 
Platoon Leaders Class 
Ground or Air 
Seniors & Graduates 

Officer Candidate Class 
Ground or Air 

No on-campus training • Eligible members receive $100 a month for each of the 9 months of the school year • Free civilian flight instruction for eligible members of PLC Air program • Freshmen and sophomores attend two six-week summer sessions at Officer Candidates School, Quantico, Virginia • Juniors take one extended session in summer before senior year • COmmissioning on day of college graduation • AU officers then attend six-months of advanced leadership training at The Basic School, Quantico • Aviation officers report directly to flight school for jetor helicopter training after Basic School. 
No on-campus training • After college graduation, 
candidates attend Officer Candidates School, Quantico, Virginia • Upon commissioning, all o!ficers report to The Basic School, Quantico, for six months' advanced training • All Marine ground officers state the occupational fields they prefer, and in three out of four cases they get their first choice • Aviation officers report to flight school for .jet or helicopter training. 



Ask A Marine About Leadership ... And Learn Something About Yourself_ 
INTERVIEWING FOR LEADERSHIP POSITIONS ON CAMPUS-OFF1CER SELECTION TEAM. lA FORTUNE STUDENT CENTER, 9 A.M. to 4 P.M.,
NOVEMBER 2-5, 1976 TElL ME MORE. I UNDERSTAND 
Th M . 
e ar1nes 

are looking for 
a few good men 
THERE IS NO OBUGATIQN. 
THE MARINEs,' Rm 319, 536 s. Clark Chicago, n 60605 • Please provide me with information about M~r~e ott1cer programs. 


I----------------------~I 
I M~ A I
I 
Ms. ge • 
I I
Address City State Zip I 
10

I School _ Class of ~ I 
·1LPhone · Soc. Sec. # • ~ ! 
L------------------------~-..-L-_J 




5




Where to vote today 
*********************


Indiana law requires voters to vote at the polling place assigned to the precinct in which the voter resides. 
Polls are open from 6 a.m. to 6 
p.m. Your precinct is indicated on the wallet registration card issued by the voter registration office. 
Some area voting places: 
Notre Dame campus proper: GROUND FLOOR* Administration"­Building. 
St. Mary's and Holy Cross Junior College: St. Mary's convent, Augusta Hall, dining room. 
Notre Dame Avenue Apartments: 
/ 
·------·"'~--·­
,, 

_j ' 
ICIUI

~1~-f




l[·-· 
\ ' \ ' -, \ < _. • , \ f 

Northeast Neighborhood Center, corner of N.D. Ave. and South­Bend Ave. 
Campus View: Prince of Peace Brethren Church, 53105 N. Iron­wood. 
ND Graduate Women's Town­houses: Prince of Peace Brethren Church, 53105 N. Ironwood. 
Turtle Creek Apartments: Turtle Creek Clubhouse. University Village: Roseland Town Hall, 200 Independence Drive. 
South Bend District 4, Precint 3: 
N. Indiana State Hospital, Front lobby 1234 N. Notre Dame Ave. 
i 11 ~~ll~«01u::' 

~ 1: ~·~'/s::.,",'.J;.; £ 
~ ~~ "'~ ;;cc ... !:
1 
~ 12 J~ :--: ~ 
-Lcu,~t&N f ~ 

South Bend District 4, Precint 11: 
N. Indiana State Hospital, south door, 1234 N. Notre Dame Ave. 


CAMPAIGN 

South Bend, District 4, Precint 12: Perley School, 740 N. Eddy. 
South Bend, District 4, Precinct 9: 
N.E. Side Neighborhood Center, 803 N. ND Ave. 
South Bend, District 4, Precinct 22: Turtle Creek Clubhouse. 
South Bend Clay 1: Roseland Town Hall, 200 Independence Dr. P.B. 

~~~:~re:e~~u~!~ ff~to5p~~c~ro~~ *********************
wood. 
------~------------------------------------­
*The Observer 
anindependentstudentnewspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's 
The Observer i~ published by students of the University of NotrP Dame and St Mary's College. It does not necessarily rPflt•ct th!:' policiP~ of e1ther institution The news is reported .~-.. an.uratply and a~ objectively as possible. Editorials n·prt'-..Pnt thP opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. ComnwntariP'i, opinions and letters are the views of their <~uthor'i. Column space is available to all members of the <ommunity, and letters are encouraged to promote the free 
•·xpn·-..~ion of varying opinions on campus. 
Buo;mess Manager  Tom Fronczak  
Advertising Manager  Mike Miller  
Photo Editor  Tony Chifari  
Production Manager.  Martha L. Fanning  
Tuesday, November 2,"'1976  

r 
who is out of work and who isn't, that nobody knows what to believe any more. · One of the reasons we can't get hard figures on unem­ployment is that there is a certain segment of the population that isn't sure whether it wants to work or not. 
Sometimes this segment is inclu­ded in the figures and sometimes it isn't. 
I discovered this the other day when I was having a drink with my friend Clancy. 
Clancy has a 21-year-old son who is unemployed. As Clancy explain­ed it to me. his son Robert is screwing up the unemployment statistics because some days he wants to work and other days he doesn't. 
l 
·'This morning I went into Rob­crt's room ... Clancy said. "and het was sacked out after arriving home at four in the morning. I shook him and asked him if he was going to look for work today. He said he might in the afternoon. I told him 
. WASHINGTON--One of the big 1-..-.ues of the prcs_idcntial campaign has been unemployment. We've had so many different figures on 
most jobs advertised in the news­papers were taken by afternoon, and that if he was serious about wanting a job he had to get up early in the morning to find one. Was I being unreasonable?" 
Itold Clancy I didn't think so. My friend ·said, "The problem 

~eems to be that Robert isn't certain he wants a job. He claims that most of the jobs being offered are not very interesting and require you to do things you weren't trained to do.·· 
"What is Robert trained to do?" "Nothing," Clancy said. "He 


Box Q, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 Phones: (219) 283-8661 [ND] (219) 284-5365 [SMC] 
EDITORIAL BOARD 
Thomas O'Neil  Editor-in-Chief  
Dan Sanchez  Managing Editor  
Chris Smith  Asst. Managing Ed.  
Gregg Bangs  Executive Editor  
Val Zurblis  Executive Editor  
Pat Hanifin  Editorial Editor  
Bob Mader  Exec. News Editor  
Maureen Flynn  Campus Editor  
Marti Hogan  St. Mary's Editor  
Don Reimer  Copy Editor  
Tim O'Reiley  Features Editor  
Fred Herbst  Sports Editor  

seriously folks! 
The work ethic 1976 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii___.art b u c h w a I d 
has three years of college and 
majored in psychology. There are 
very few jobs open for someone 
who has three years of psychology. 
It's not enough psychology for 
some personnel managers, and it's 
too much psychology for others." 
"Did he say what he would like 

to do?" 
"He isn't sure. He told me he 

would like to make a lot of money 
so I wouldn't bug him all the time 
about getting a job. I think he 
would like to start off as an 
executive vice president of a large 
corporation where he could get 
stock options and bonuses at the 
end of the year and have the use of 
the' company airplane on week­
ends." 
"Well. you have to admit he has 
set his sights high.'' · 
"In one way he has, but in 
another way he says while he wants 
to make a lot of moqey, he doesn't 
want to be corrupted by the 
system. He told me he's ,not going 
to 'sell out'." 
''That's admirable," I said. "I 
admire someone who wants to 
make a lot of money and doesn't 
want to 'sell out.· He hasn't told 
you how he plans to do this, has 
he?" 
"He. says in our system it can't be done. so why should he look for a job?" 
"That three years of psychology must have had a big impact on him." 
"I feel terrible about it," Clancy said. "because I know Robert is being carried on the labor statistics as being one of the seven million eight hundred thousand unemploy­ed. It's correct that he isn't ~orking, but if he isn't looking for a JOb I'm not certain that he isn't flying under false colors: There are so many sincere people trying to find jobs that it seems unfair to have someone like Robert lumped in with them. I guess there are thousands of kids like him who want to start at the top, so it's impossible for the Labor Depart­ment to know how many jobs they have to provide to make the economy strong again." 
"Maybe Congress could pass a special bill for people like Robert. They could set aside 300 or 400 executive vice presidential posi­tions that kids who drop.ped a,ut of school could apply for," I suggest­ed. . 
"It would be a solution," Clancy admitted, "providing the govern­ment was willing to interview them after two o'clock in the afternoon. You can't expect kids like Robert, with their educational backgrounds and upbringing, to start looking for work in the morning." 
P.O. Box Q: 
Amendment 'undemocratic' 
Dear Editors: 
Mr. Brian Clancy apparently believes the arguments of Paul Herbit ("Hates Pro-Lifers," Oct. 
26) to be frivolous and irrelevant. Mr. Clancy, on the other hand. takes a rather narrow view of the abortion issue. 
Mr. Clancy believes,. first of all, that Mr. Herbit's comparison of the right-to-life groups to temperance leagues is fallacious, as unborn babies cannot be compared with alcoholic beverages. However, the comparison is valid to the extent that these latter groups that forced the passage of the Prohibition· amendment represented a well-or­ganized, passionate minority of the American public. Public opinion surveys show that a majority of the public still considers abortion to be a private decision, and not a public one. And the failure of local anti-abortion groups to defeat John Brademas and Birch Bayh in 197.4 shows that most voting Americans. are not committed to an anti-abor­tion amendment to the extent that 
right-to-life groups  are,  or  would  
wish the public to be.  
Also,  the  failure  of  so-called  
"Liberals,"  who  are  generally  

supportive of humanistic ideals such as the abolition of capital punishment, economic aid to poor countnes, old-age relief, etc., to support an anti-abortion amend­ment leads one to consider that, at the present time, the moral issue of abortion is subordinate to other issues, including the right to privacy, the right to control one's own body, etc. The fact that such countries as Sweden, where capital punishment is outlawed, allow abortions shows that the issue is not as purely "moral" as Mr. Clancy claims it to be. 
In my mind, there are two important ccnsiderations which cause me to be opposed to an 
DOONESBURY by Garry Trudeau 

If you're off-campus this year, 
the reality in which you live exists 
in one of two possible environ­
ments: . 
l)You live in a relatively safe , apartment complex with adequate security devices such as strong doors and good locks; or 2) because of the zoning laws in the city, you live in a less favorable neighbor­hood, in a house owned by a slum lord, which has plywood doors and 
loc~s of equal quality. 
It is to those students and friends 
who find themselves in the second 
classification that I direct myself. 
My memory floats back to the 
many times the furnace would go 
cold, due to lack of oil, (due to lack 
of budgeted money), and all the 
house-mates would gather around 
the kitchen stove to warm them­
selves and tell off-campus stories. 
We all knew them to be true since 
one never has to exaggerate an 
off-campus story in order to make it 
exciting. Here are a few of them. 
I once heard of a bunch of guys 
who owned a big German shepard 
for their house for protection. One 
weekend night they left the place 
for an evening of partying and 
returned home several hours later. 
When they walked in the door, they 
immediately realized that they had 
been totally wiped out of their few 
meager possessions. They found 
their dog beat up and locked in the 
bathroom. 
Last year a guy told me of a friend of his that had been ripped off three times in two years. Over that period of time the friend lost three stereo systems, each valued over a thousand dollars a piece. It was wise that the victim had full insurance coverage, but after the last system was stolen he was 9uoted as saying, "As long as I live 111 South Bend, I'm giving up music." 
I remember the first _day that we moved into our house last year. At the same time the kids next door were moving out. One of the neighbors was sitting on the front porch resting a bit before he went back in for some more boxes. I went over to him and struck up a conversation about the neighbor­hood that I was about to spend the next nine months in. He told me. " ... glad to get out of here, that's for darn sure. Just last week we were all crashed out after an all-night party ... everybody asleep on the floor downstairs ... I guess nobody remembered to lock up, and some dude just walked right in while we were passed out and picked our wallets and stole a bunch of our food." 

If any of you students out there are wondering why the famous Tim 
_Boyle always looks so freaked out, I can tell you a story that will explain this phenomenon. He was sitting downstairs in the living room watching the tube one night and during a commercial, he casually· looked over his shoulder at the window behind him. He saw two big brown. eyes staring right back at him, about eight inches away from his. Needless to say, this experience has left a profound effect on Tim'·s nervous system and his general behavior after sunset. 
And finally the sad tale about when I was ripped off. 
I was out of town for the weekend and on Saturday night. my-house­mates were out at the bars for a total of two hours. During that short period of time, someone had broken in and stolen, among other things, a color TV, a stereo, a calculator, and most of our good clothes. T~ey even took the laundry deter­gent to wash their newly acquired threads. 
Had enough? I've got a million of 'em. 
anti,abortion constitutional amend­ment at the present time. One is the lack of a moral consensus among the American public. Until such a consensus exists, enactment of an anti-abortion amendment would amount to a moral coercion of the majority by the minority,­which is inconsistent with our democratic ideals. Groups on both sides of the issue should continue their efforts at "education" of the public in view of reaching such a consensus. 
The other issue is what one might call the present "necessity" of abortions (althm!gh I hesitate to use such a term). What I mean by this is illustrated by the fact that abortions did occur even before the Supreme Court decision legalizing t~em. Until access ·to contracep­tives and effective sex education is universal, unintended and/or un­wanted pregnancies will continue to occur. 

This is why I believe, as do many· of those "invertebrates" of which Mr. Clancy writes, that although I may be personally opposed to abortions and may try to convince others, the imposition of my moral standards upon an unwilling public wo~ld be anti-democratic. 
Matt Kennelly 

Weirder than Euer 
Photos by Jim Hoffman 
The Beaux Arts Ball, which has long had a reputation for being innovative, interest­ing or just downrightweird;<!dded some new ''firsts'' to its collective mythology last Saturday. 
For the first time in recent memory, the architecture students' annual masquerade ball, which draws upon a century of tradition (the original Beaux Arts Ball was held at L'Ecole Des Beaux Arts in Paris) for its inspiration, was heldonHalloween eve, thus attracting an even more bizarrely­costumed crowd than usual. 
Secondly this year's Beaux Arts featur­ed_the campus debut of Aron Neon WUde, a hard-driving. progressive rock n' roll band that had an enthusiastic crowd dancing the night away. 
An alliance of four domers and a former 
I.U. art student, Aron Neon WUde proved to be an energetic oasis in an otherwise barren campus (or local, take your pick) music scene. 
Whereas so many groups are content to perform a Top 40 mish-mash with the obligatory disco drone thrown in for good measure, Aron Neon WUde take a direct electric route to the heart of rock playing music that's good for the head as well as pleasing to the feet. 


ortune-­Biue Oyster Cult By Dominick Salemi 
When one thinks of all the heavy metal bands existant, even those who have only achieved second billing status, its surpris­ing that the name Blue Oyster Cult isn't mentioned more often. Originally a Cult Band that broke out of the Oyster Bay, Long Island, the Cult seemed destined for stardom, when every rock and roll critic in the country fell all over themselves in their­use of imaginative superlatives when praising the band. 
Yet something happened along the road to fame and riches. The LPs sold quickly at first, but the band never really acquired a large following. -After thtee well-re­ceived discs, the group still found them­selves second and third billed to insipid acts like, Uriah Heep and Black Sabbath. 
The major reason for BOC's lack of success, however, has been their inability to project anything beyond a seedy, leather-apparelled image, a sort of Hell's Angels with guitars and huge amps. Also, the band has no real leader, nobody that really stands out. Without the compens­atory gimmick to make up for this, BOC has failed to garner their share of the dope­crazed, heavy metal metal market. 
Not that BOC hasn't tried to create an image for themselves. Having been cast in the mold of a kinky street band.BOC has flirted and then flaunted it until the band began to envision themselves as a bunch of Satanic street messiahs bringing the antichrist to the common man. Their last LP, Tyranny and Mutatio~•. although witty and enjoyable. was overshadowed by the theatricality in their studied poses. 
Last summer, in an attempt to showcase their versatality, the group released a live LP that flopped critically and commcrcial­_ly. It was a helluva disc that incorporated all of the finest elements of the band, mixing softer stuff with the blistering banzai tactics of their earlier albums, plus some great covers and killer instrumentals. Yet the release of the live LP after only three studio albums and those in only five years illustrated the problem the band was having in seeking a sense of direction. 
Agents of fortune, HOC's first studio LP in over three years shows that the group has finally learned to live with itself. It is marked by self-conscious wit and a remarkably relaxed attitude that belies the desperate commercial position the band is in. They have discarded the frenetic qualities of the first three LPs and added a weater vocal and melodic emphasis. There are still several power packed numbers and a healthy proccupation with the morbid. But overall, the LP relies less on overpowering rhythmic work than ari imaginative, integrated sound. Patti Smith is also on hand to lend additional support on background vocals and to provide creative inspiration (she co-wrote two of the songs). 
If this LP sells at all though, it will be becausethe Cult has finally broken into the Top Forty market with their tremendous "Don't Fear the Reaper." Easily one of the best singles of the year, its success has enabled the band to embark on a major. tour, and as a headliner no less. 
Having established themselves commer­cially, BOC should finally gain the large audience they deserve. They are the most talented heavy metal band in America and deserve the recognition they are now getting. After six years and five blistering platters, it's about time. 
Tuesday, November 2, 1976 

the observer 
7 

Jacques Brei done Well 
By Maureen Flynn 
Join us now, we're on a marathon. of "Amsterdam" and "Next." 
We keep on dancing whlle the music's My personal favorite was Sons of. sung playing. by Sally Naxera. whose intense and Join us now, we're on a marathon. strikingly clear voice seems to go higher We keep on dancing every night and day. and higher and higher without ever 
faltering or becoming shrill. 
From the moment the five performers Sons of the thief, sons of the saint, appear on stage to issue their invitation, Who Is the child with no complaint? .•• 
Jacques Brei is Alive and WeD and Uvlng Sons of the great, sons unknown In Paris never lets up. The frantic pace of All were chlldren Uke your own •.. 
''Marathon'' carries through to the desper­Sons of tycoons, sons of the farms,ate frenzy of "Carousel." In between the All of the children ran from your IU"IIis... 
two numbers the audience is treated to an incredible selection of songs by the French Other members of the cast included Lou song-writer, Jacques Brei. topped by one Spisto,~ who also directed. easily handled of Brei's better-known numbers, "If We the contrasting demands of the gripping Only Have Love." "Alone" and the comically whistful "Jack­
ie;" Mike McCord, blinctly searching forThe show, which opened last weekend in the "perfect" mate in "Bachelor's Dance"the LaFortune Rathskellar, is impressive and contemplating the attitude of "Thethroughout. The cast, !lCcompanied by Bulls" towards the Sundaycorrido de toro:bass and electric guitars, a piano and Maria Costello, a near Janis Ian sound­percussion instruments, dances, struts, alike, who twist~ her tongue about thesings, warbles, and croons its way through Flemish lyrics of "Marickc" and who~ea two-hour program of Brei songs that run nostalgic "I Loved" ends with the ultimall'the gamut of emotion and subject matter. 
irony; Florencean Striglc. as a SahationIt is a tribute, both to Brei's music and to Army volunteer recounting the sad talc ofthe performers' talents. that the audience the nice-girl-turned-street-walker. ·"Timiddisplayed no signs of restlessness, despite Freida."
the number of selections and the somewhat Accompaniment is provided h~· Pianist:less than luxurious wooden chairs. The conductor Mike Moses. Percussionist Greg variety of the songs and their arrangement Caraboolad and Guitarists Rourke O'Brienin the program sustain the momentum and Paul Kweicinski.
throughout. 
A product of the 1950's and 1960's, Brei Not one of the Student Plavcrs is a has been called the "Dylan of France" for drama or music major: four arc business his concern with contemporary social majors. four are in arts and letters. one is issues. Sometimes the treatment is in engineering and one is a freshman. This serious; other times it is comic, ironic, · is not an apology for the show--it most burlesque. The tone of the selections certainly doesn't need one--but a further varies from the comic exuberance of tribute to the talents and efforts of the "Madeleine," "Mathilde" and "Brus­students involved. Two hours in the sels" to the pathos of "The Desperate basement of LaFortune this weekend will 
Ones" and "Old Folks" and the harshness be time rcwardingly spent.
' 


I I 
j 
l 
l
-· 
j I t I 
j j 

Why would anyone go to an existential play? (Unless they want to be embarrass­ed) The ex-istential playwright seems to take pride in stripping us of our protective social masks, leaving only two fig .leaves-­We exist; we are alone. No wonder we blush at our hypocrisy. But somehow rawness becomes bareable if we discover that Jacques Brei is alive and living in Paris. The student produetion at the Nazz Nov. S and 6 is spreading the news. 
Who is Jacques Brei? We never do meet him on stage but we get to know him intimately, through the five actors who sing his songs about sex, love, aging. dying--life. The experiences which his ironic lyrics mirror, not only make plain our hypocrisy, but also allow us to laugh healthily at ourselves. 
The Nazz is the perfect place for this existential musical. The atmosphere is dark, intimate, intellectual like some cafe which Jean-Paul Satre might haunt. On the rude wooden platform, theater comes alive miraculously under three pairs of spotlights. · 
From behind a patched black curtain come the notes of a hot piano spiced with percussion and an electric guitar which enhance~ the strong vocalists. The actors sing a deluge of 25 songs whose refreshing melodies and piqant lyrics keep the audience perched on their wooden chairs. Each song surprises. Brei mixes the ballad of "Timid Frieda" sung by a Salvation Army trio, with a "Funeral T~ngo", with the nursury rhyme-like refrains of "Carousel." Sometimes the songs -arc serious. Lou Spisto sings "Alone" with such anguish-clenched fists, and haunted eyes--that the audience grows uncomfortable. Other songs are comic. In "Bachelors Dance". Mike McCord. s"ings about the qualities of the girl he will marry. 
But as soon as he attracts a girl he waves her away. with "You arc not the one." 
The company stages the songs well. They do not just stand on the platform but spice their songs with choreography. "Marathon" captures the essence of each decade of the 1900's with a characteristic dance step, and in "Madeleine" blond Sa_ly Naxera and Florencean Strigle sing 
bnghtly  and  smile  with  the  glitter  of  
Star-Spangled girls.  
The  momentum  of the first  act  slacks  

towards the middle of the second act. There is not much Brei or the company could do to reheat the themes, disguise the leftovers. When the audience begins looking at the program to see how many songs are left it is time for the musical to end. But when the last song comes, it is not disappointing. The raw selfishness, the butt of many jokes is healed in "If we only had love". With nothing at all But the little we are Then we'll have conqured all space, all time the sun, and the stars. 
It is enough to make us atad we are alive; glad that Jacques Brei is alive and well and living in Paris. 
---------------------~--~-------------­
ACTION EXPRESS sponsored by the Ombudsman open 9:30 to 5:00 Mon. -Fri. 283-7638 
Q. Where can I get my shoes' repaired quickly? 
A There's a shoe repair in the basement of Badin Hall Hours are Monday-Friday, 9:00a.m. to 6:00 p m. and Saturday 10:00 a.m. to 2:00 p.m. Phone 1144. 
Q. Is there a shuttle bus service to the South Bend Airport? 
A. Tht>rt> is no shuttle bus service but there is the airport limo service. It costs $1.50 from the Circle and $1.7.'i from your hall. For information a~d rp-;prvations, call 234-3682 at least 2-3 hours m advancP and if possible, the night before. 
Q. Where can 1 pick some delicious fresh fruit? 
A. For thosP who want to pick their own, try Tn•t•nwndous Fruit Farm. To get there take 31 towMd Niles. After approximately 12 miles, turn nght on route m-3 where there are signs that mark tht> way to the fruit farm. (It takes about 20 mlmJtPs.) They provide ladders and apples, peaches and plums in season. It's about $S.OO for 35 lbs. 
Q. Are there Drive-away services in the area? 
A. YPs, you can contact Wilson Drive Away, working out of Chicago, by phonmg 477-5055 or 2 3b-044'i. 
Any qm•stions? Drop them off at the Ombudsman Office in the LaFortune Student Center or call us at 2!13-763B. 
Women sports progress 
(continued from page 3) Women and men practice and travel together. The women's tennis and fencing teams will be equipped commensurately with the men in the same sport. 
According to Title IX separate teams arc allowed in contact sports and in sports where competitive >kill is the main factor for deter­mining team members. If separate teams arc offered. the university must not discriminate on the basis of sex when providing equipment and supplies but equal aggregate expenditures are not required. 
This vear there arc five women coaches. and women athletes now have the same tutoring options tlpen to them as the men do. The athletic department plans to set aside certain hours in the Medical Center for women. Four-page brochures will be published by the Sports !formation Center on wo­men's fencing and tennis. 
Scholarships are now given to men's varsity sports. There are no grants-in-aid for men or women in fencing. In tennis the athletic department gives one-half of a scholarship per year to men but it does not plan on issuing any aid to women team members until the sport is more firmly established. 
Hotvedt feels the women's athle­tic program is too young at this stage for scholarships. She said that she would rather see the money invested in building a strong women's sports program on campus before considering re­cruitment and scholarships. 
Little change expected 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Despite 
Jrospects of a dozen or so newcom­
·rs. the party line-up in the Senate 
s expected to be little changed by 
odav's elections. 
Democrats are confident they 
1·ill maintain, and possible even 
ncrcase slightly. their majority in .he 95th Congress that will convene Jan. 4. 
Republican campaign aides fore­;ce no chance of capturing control lf the Senate, saying they doubt if hey can make a net pickup of more han two seats. 
Democrats now outnumber Re­
•Hhlicans 
in the Senate 62-38, ounting Independent Harry F. hrd Jr.. of Virginia with the )~·mocrats and Conservative-Re­

•uhlican 
James L. Buckley of New 'ork in the GOP column. 


Bvrd. who votes with the Demo­Tats on the organization of the icnate. is expected to win re-elec­ion. But Buckley is one of the ncumbents the Democrats are ounting on unseating. 
Buckley's Democratic opponent ; Daniel Patrick Moynihan, former mbassador to the United Nations. 'irginia Republicans put up no andidate against Byrd, but retired .dm. Elmo Zumwalt, former chief f naval operations, is running gainst him as a Democrat. 
Sen. Vance Hartke of Indiana, e~king a ·Jpurt~ .tertp,·, is the 
Democratic incumbent GOP stra-' tegists say they are most confident of defeating. His Republican opponent is former Indianapolis· Mayor Richard G. Lugar. 
Republican spokesman also pre­dicted their candidate in Utah, (continued to page 11) 
Presidential race very close 
by Donald M. Rothberg AP PoUtlcal Writer 
The number of Americans who 
go to the polls may ~e. the biggest 
single factor determtntng whether 
Gerald R. Ford or Jimmy Carter is 
elected president of the United 
States today. . 
Ford and Carter ended their 
campaigns Monday night with 
rallies in Michigan, barely 100 
miles apart. 
Then the campaign was over. The candidates could only join with millions of other Amricans and vote. And wait. 
The President would vote in his hometown of Grand Rapids, Mich., Carter in Plains, Ga. Sen. Robert Dole, the Republican vice presiden­tial nominee, went home to Rus­sell, Kan., to vote, while Sen. Walter F. Mondale, Carter's run­ning mate, returned to Afton, Minn., to cast his ballot. 
The National Weather Service forecast sunny skies, light winds and seasonable temperatures for most of the nation. There was a possibility of showers in the Great Lakes area. 
Public opinion analysts predicted that barely more than half the 150 million voting age Ameri­cans would go to the polls. In 1972, the turnout was 55 per cent. Historically, a large turnout bene­fits the presidential candidate. 
Dixville Notch, N.H., generally the nation's first community to tally its votes, gave For~ 13 and Carter II early today. There are 18 Republicans in the little resort town and eight Democrats. 
For months the candidates tra­veled back and forth across the nation, east and west, north and south, speaking in airports, at downtown intersections, at subur­ban shopping centers_. the Republ_i­can President and hts Democratic challenger apealing for an electoral mandate to lead the United States into its third century. 
But after all the miles ·and all the words, election day arrived with no clear indication which candidate \;Vould emerge as the choice of the people. 
An Associated Press state-by­state survey showed the outcome was uncertain in nearly half of the SO states. Twenty-four states with 237 electoral votes were rated as too close to call. Carter was seen as leading in 15 states and the District of Columbia for 210 elector­al votes. Ford was found leading in 11 states with 91 electoral votes. The winner needs 270 electoral votes. 
Other surveys and public opinion polls found the contest equally close and unpredictable. 
A final Gallup poll found Ford ahead by one point, 47 to 46. The latest Harris poll showed Carter ahead 46 to 45. The Roper poll taken for the Public Broadcasting 
TUNE UP 
PLUS PARTS, MOST CARS 
SPECIALISTS IN ENGINE TUNE-UP, BRAKES, AIR-CONDITIONING 
Yz BLOCK SOUTH OF MISHAWAKA K-MART
.,.. 259-6391' 
The Roper poll projected a turnout between 56 and 59 per cent, higher than many analysts expect. 
Both candidates closed their campaigns in Michigan, one of the states considered a toss-up, despite the fact that Ford has called it home for most of his adult life. 
Ford's closing rally was in Grand Rapids, which he served as a congressman for 24 years. "I am the first son of Michigan to serve as president of the United States," he told the crowd. "I am part of this great state, its people and its belief in America." 
Carter and Mondale closed out their campaigning in Flint, Mich., 100 miles east of Grand Rapids. 
In Flint, Carter hammered at economic themes, noting that an estimated 5,000 jobless Detroit residents had mobbed General Motors' main Cadillac assembly plant in Detroit on Monday after the firm announced it would take some job applications. 
Some of those who sought appli­cations had waited all night for applications and, in the rush to apply for work, some fighting was reported. 
"There were a few jobs available this morning in Detroit -200 jobs," Carter told his audience in Flint. "Five thousand people went there to get work. I believe our nation is strong enough to put people back to work. I think it's time for a 

change." The two presidential candidates also bought 30 minutes on each of the three commercial television networks for final nationwide ap­peals to the voters. 
Their television appeals closely followed the themes of their cam­paigns -taxes and jobs, peach and security, trust. Each offered once again his view of where the nation is and where it can go from here. 
"The promises I've made have been very cautious and I'm going to keep them,,., said the Democratic candidate. 
Ford recalled the difficult period in which he became president, taking office after the resignation of Richard M. Nixon. "America has turned around," he said. "I put the ship of state on. an even keel. I held a firm hand on the tiller for a steady course." 
With the two candidates running so close in so many states, no one could predict on what the election might turn, whether it would be on pocketbook issues. such as taxes, jobs and inflation, or on defense and foreign policy and voter per­ceptions of which man would keep the nation at peace. 
Or would other issues tip the balance? Carter's controversial interview with Playboy magazine, or the Watergate questions that continued to dog the Republicans. 
Although national attention was on the presidential candidates, thousands of other offices will be filled today by the voters. 
SMC Social Commission & 
Holy Cross Hall 
·present 
SECOND CITY 
Sat. Nov. 6--7:30pm O'Laughlin Auditorium $1.50--Students & Faculty $2.50--General Admission 
Ticket sales begin MONDAY and are available through SMC Programming Office, 4176 
\ 
US 31 NORTH SO. BEND IND 

The Boar's Head is auditioning 1&2. piece groups for our cocktail lounge hours of entertainment run 8:00 pm to 1:OOam 
Tues thru Sat (soft rock & guitar & vocal) Apply in person for appt. betw~en 2-4 pm Mon thru Fri Ask for Jim Painter-manager 

Polls indicate voter apathy still increasing 
by Barbara Breitenstein PoUtical Writer 

While many Americans will be going to the polls today to elect either Gerald Ford or Jimmy Carter the next President of the United States, just as many or more may be staying home and not voting this year, according to pollster Peter D. Hart. 
Despite the closeness of the race, which polls now indicate is "too close to call," the number of "turned-off voters," may acceler­ate beyond the steady increase of recent elections, Newsweek maga­zine reports. 
This voter apathy may have "surprising" consequences in to­day's election. 
According to a hart poll, part of a 
survey taken by the University of polled mentioned either Carter or 
Art market hits upward trend 
NEW YORK [AP] -Not only is art alive, it is thriving, was the a~sessment given by some of the nation's foremost museum of­ficials, art dealers and artists to some 400 persons at the first World Art Market Conference over the weekend. 
"Far, from being less pertinent, the fine arts and the art museum will become more important ... , " Director Thomas P.F. Hoving of the Metropolitan Museum of Art declared. 
However, Director Thomas Mes­ser of the Guggenheim Museum, said it will be possible only if museums get enough money to make acquisitions. They are made now, he added, mostly through borrowing, trading and begging. 
One panel disagreed about the 
Sorin controversy 
(continued from page 1) Hall President Bender suggested the end of last year. Roemer that, "Roemer should h~ve sent related that Fr. Tom Stella, rector some notice tQ the hall members. of Sorin last year,.had warned him This would be a good idea for the 
that the new rector might have future. Otherwise, the rector has difficulties with the seven. 
to bear the brunt of decisions that Sorin Hall President David Ben­
are made from above." der affirmed this. "It was out of 
As for the hall reaction to theFr. Green's hands. Fr. Stella went measure, Bender said, "Thereto Roemer last year, and he was in were some complaints," about thetouch with the group," he said. 
behavior of the seven, ''But I don't When Fr. Green took over as think the hall felt it was intolerable. 
rector this year, the disciplinary I think the hall in general feels that matter had already gone to the Roemer over-reacted.'' 
dean. Nevertheless, when the 
~:~·~"w::m;::e,;:, ·~~ .::~ ;i.\T**T*E*N**T**I0*N********
was the first receiver of comments jlllf" Jt 
from angry hall members. 
Britain urges 
Rhodesia

independence 
GENEVA* Switzerland AP-Britain has called on black and white Rhodesian leaders to meet today to discuss fixing a date for Rhodesian independence. 
The announcement by lvor Richard, British chairman of the Rhodesian settlement conference, followed a round of talks with four black chief delegates and with ian Smith, prime minister of Rhode­sia's white governmept. 
The issue-of tizing a 1977 target date for independence has been urged upon Richard by Joshua Nkomo and Robert Mugabe, who head Rhodesia's patriotic Front, and by Bishop Abel Muzorewa and the Rev. Ndabaningi Sithole, who lead two other factions of the country's independence-seeking black nationnalists. 
All have demanded statehood for t~e. coupp-y they; refer to as ~mbabwe within a year. 
extent of artistic creativity, while another attributed the slump in the art market following the booming 1960's to a return to realistic prices. 
"I can say the market is on a solid trend now," John Marion, president of the prestigious Sothe­by Parke Bernet auction house, reported at the New School for Social Research, which sponsored the conference with the "ART­newsletter" ·periodical. 
Speaking of a surge . of art interest in the South, dealer Loui!. Goldenberg, president of Wilden­stein & Co., said he was "very, very much surprised" at the grow­ing number in the last half-year of private individuals' buying art destined just for museums. 
Denver and the Committee for the Study of the American Electorate, only 46 percent of voting-age Americans will vote for president today, a drop of 9.4 percent from 1972. 
If so, it would be ''the first time 
• that participation has dropped be­low SO percent since a 43.9 percent turnout elected Calvin Coolidge in 1924," according to Newsweek. 
Most non-voters choose not to vote, the poll indicates, because "the candidates say one thing and then do another," or because "it doesn't make any difference who is selected because things never seem to work right anyway.'' These reasons reveal "a strong sense of futility,'' Newsweek states. 
At the same time, the survey indicates only one percent of those 
~EVERYONE 1· • 
* F l *
* . acu ty * :Administrati ~ ~ Students ~ 
*~You are all invited to the~* 
* 
~ 
..... 
* 
"'­
..... 
~ 
~ 
lt 
23·•4-~c~.:g

********* ******If*** ..... ---29'• 
Observer
Open House 
I I 'ednesday Nz·ght
VV ~ 

7: 30 10 Pm
• 

Help Celebrate Our 
· t I 'AN HORNE &Co Dimllliilils "'1t'alc/iii5ftlltt''·
Tenth ~. Antversarv. VL&a2:u•:u:awu; t-
Ford as names or politicians th~y admired most. 
Even United nations diplomats have noticed the "apparent apathy of the public," Peter Grose reports in the New York Times. "Many Americans have found themselves in embarassing social discussions about the relative low level of voter participation even in hotly contest­ed elections compared with the far higher turnout in Europe and other demoJ:racies," accordim! to Grose. 
Along with this apathy, the public opinion analysts detect an unusually high level of indeciion among voters, Walter R. Mears, Associated Press political analyst, 
reports. There is also a lack of P"'-~~-------------'"""'---------., 
intensity in support for both candi­tiates, he says. 
While politicans a pollsters re­port unusual volitility in voters, the public is wavering between Ford 
"The ·market, the future for those museums, is absolutely e­normous," Clyde Newhouse, pres­ident of the Art Dealers Association of America, added. 
In another panel discussion, there was accord on New York City as the world's art capital. But the prominent dtalers who participated -among them New York's Leo Castelli, Chicago's Richard KGray, Houston's Meredith Long and Bos­ton's Portia Harcus -debated whether it was an art collecting ce1•ter as well. 
"Where are the new collectors, then?" Castelli , demand­ed. "Well, there aren't any. They are mostly elsewhere." 
Countered dealer Andre Emmer­
ich of Manhattan and Zurich, "I 
think there still are collectors 
around, perhaps not as spectacu­
larly as there once were." 
As for new movements in art, 
Lawrence Rubin, co-director of M. 
Knoedler & Co., said, ''It may very 
well be that the creation of art in 
the 70's is slower, less dramatic." 
It would not be the first time, he 
continued, that creation was at a 
pause. 
Said Ruth Braunstein, director of 
San Francisco's Quay Gallery, to­
day's artists "will emerge as 
strong a group as came out of the 
SO's and 60's." 
Other panelists included artists 
Robert Indiana and Deborah Rem-l.,t;t"or:0:::"'~::::!!!::1";:r:;;-.:r:::~=:::;~="--..::::-o:::-=-::::::r'7-?-:::~-~:f:::i ington, plus George A. LeMaistre, ~~==~~==!!::::!!:~=~!=:::!~~~;;:~=~~~==:f::~~~~ 
director of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp., who foresaw an expanding. profitable role for banks in financing art. 
·~ 
"'--* 
....­
"'--* 
....­
"'-.. 
....­
i . 
and Carter. many voters are "undecided and many more unen­thusiastic in their preferences," according to R.W. Apple, Jr., of the Times. ' 
''The undecided voters appear­ed to be increasing, a highly unusual development that suggest­ed the possibility of surprise re­sults," Apple continues. 
"When you get this kind of movement," pollster Melvin D. Fiedl commented in the story, "it is a little like trying to measure the wind speed in a hurricane. WE don't know and we won't know until Tuesday night whether the Ford momentum is continuing or 
~ 

~ir 1I\.ichard's
g ®
Award Winnin~

HAIR SJlL!!G
Member of 197~ 

State Hairstylinn Stylist
FOR MEN & WOMEN 
277-0734 129 Dixieway South 277-0734 {31 N in Roseland, half mile N. of Campus) 
Any Senior interested in being hairman for Senior Fellow Committee, Please submit short resume containing qualifications, ideas, etc. to Student Activities office by Thursday Nov. 4 
5:00pm 

Anyone interested in working on committee just submit his or her name. 
Thank you. 
Carter has stopped it.'' President Ford's own personal poll taker, Robert Teeter, also noted an unusual amount of movement in the polls. "There are lots of people who don't have a very good feel for either candidate," he said in Newsweek. There is an "air of frusration," Mears says, ecause "neather Ford nor Carter has found the theme or the argument to put his imprint on the wavering. undecided voters who hold the key to today's outcome," "At the hour of decision," Mears reports, ·'there is indeci­sion." 
play of diamond creations soon. You'll see the newest designs in cocktail rings, as well as the finest in engage­
ment and wedding ring sets. And you can buy with con­
fidence, assured by our membership in the American Gem Society, an organization of professionally trained jewelers who combine gemology and integrity for the protection of the buying public. 
MEMBER AME~ICAN_GEM-®
sociETY 


The Isis gallery opened a new now on display. show. Above is one of the works 
Isis opens new show 
Isis Gallery, the student gallery Schaefer is one of the first artist! located in the old fieldhouse, from an outside area to exhibit hi! opened a ne~· show Sunday, Oct. work in Isis this semester. Other 
24. The display by Ron Schaefer, shows scheduled this semester consisting of etchings and draw­include artists from the Notre ings will be open all week. from Dame community as well as several 
work at Notre Dame. 
Train derails in Kentucky causes 1 ,000 to evacuate 
HENDERSON• ky. -About 1.000 residents of two trailer parks near this western Kentucky town were evacuated from their homes early yesterday after an Illinois Central Gulf freight train derailed, authori­ties reported. 
I 
Henderson County Sheriff J.T. Southard gave the residents per­mission to return to their homes after receiving assurances from railroad officials that acid leaking from three of the derailed cars was not dangerous. 
[ 
He said two of the cars contained hydrochloric acid and 
were "putting out an odor that looks like a vapor sort of thing.'' 
Rex Powell. a spokesman for the Illinois Central,. said the gas leaks had been "contained" by mid-morning and that it was safe for the families to return home. He said cleanup operations would con­tin~e late into the night. 
The accident occurred about 3:15 
a.m. Monday, Southard said, injur­ing one employee of the Illinois Central. The man was treated and released from a Henderson hospital. 
Wally Norris, another spokes­man for the chicago-based railroad, said 14 cars and one diesel engine were involved in the derailment, which he said apparently was caused by a broken rail on the track. ' 
The train, he said, included three 
engines and a total of 86 cars. 
·'Two of the cars contained Hydrochloric muriatic acid, and another car had liquid caustic soda, " said Norris. "That's the only three cars that contained anything that is near dangerous." 
Only two cars developed leak­ages as a result of the accident and a third was r1,1ptured, he said. There was no fire and the leaking chemicals were transferrd to other cars, he said. 
The accident occurred some six miles south of Henderson, South­ard said. 
Norris said railroad and state officials were on the scene to investigage the cause of the acci­dent. 
Southard said the residents we're ordered to evacuate as a precau­tionary measure when he was told several cars contain~d a type of acid. 
Observer names new night editors 
Paul Schappler and Joe Bauer were recently named Observer night editors. Both were previous­ly assistant night editors. 
Schappler is a junior Engineer­ing major from Nasua, N.H. Bauer, from Tulsa, Okla., is a junior Accounting major. 
ONCE 
-~ 

-------------...,....-------
Hespurgh forms organization in effort to mobilize the masses 
Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, Notre Dame President, is one of the founders of "New Directions," a nonpartisan organization formed this month to work for international concerns. 
Hesburgh is one of five vice chairpersons of the new citizens' lobby, which seeks global solutions to such problems as hunger, pover­ty, illiteracy, unemployment, ill health, discrimination population growth, energy scarcity, waste of resources, environmental deterior­ation, war, and the arms race. Russell W. Peterson, former chair­man of the President's Council on Environmental Quality, is presi­dent of "New Directions," and anthropologist Margaret Mead ­
heads the group's Council. Grace Olivarez, a Notre Dame law alumna and leading advocate of Mexican­American interests, is a member of the Council. 
Hesburgh, publisher Norman Cousins, World Bank president Robert McNamara and Mead were the chief planners of the new organization, modeled after "Com­mon Cause." Headquarters for 
Kulpa elected 
10-5 daily. noted artists invited to exhibit their-to board position 
Dr. Charles F. Kulpa, Jr., assis­tant professor of micrbiology at Notre Dame, has been elected to a two-year term as director-at-large on the State Board of Directors of the American Cancer Society's Indiana Division. 
Before joining the Notre Dame faculty in 1972, Kulpa was a staff fellow with the Institute of Arthri­tis, Metabolic and Digestive Di­seases at the National Institutes of Health. He has been investigating the use of artificial membranes called liposomes as carriers of anticancer drugs to specific tissues, a technique which could make chemotherapy more effective. He receives funding for his research from the American Cancer Society. 
c •• 
• 
"New Directions" is in Washington, ations, 
banks, universities and 
The group's organizing state­ment said its goal is to "'mobilize a constituency numbering in the millions to demonstrate to decision­makers the strength of American concern for our country's role in world affairs. "New Directions" will lobby in Washington--in Congress, at the White House, among the departments and regu­latory agencies. It will carry its message in the media and to related organizations. It will attempt to intluel'!ce the non-governmental 
shapers of national policy--corpor­trade associations. It will organize people in local communities to respond to local manifestations of global injustice or irresponsibility. And, when necessary, it will take its case to court.'' 

Hesburgh's association with the new organization is a natural outgrowth of his chairmanship of the Overseas Development Coun­cil, a Washington-based private 
organization  formed  in  1969  to  
promote effective aid  to  underde­ 
veloped countries.  

Nominations now open for Luce Scholars Program 
The University is searching for candidates to compete for its two nominations for the Luce Scholars Program. This program provides one-year fellowships in Asia. 
Candidates must be American citizens under 27 years of age and can come from Notre Dame's junior faculty, recent graduates, post­baccalaureate students and very exceptional seniors. High acade­mic achievement, a clearly defined career interest outside of Asian affairs or international relations and leadership capacity are among selection criteria. No Asian lang­uage ability is necessary, and applicants do not need any pre­vious extensive As.ian experience. 
The purpose of the fellowships is to provide future leaders with an exposure to Asia they ordinarily would not have. The Asia Founda­tion finds professional positions in institutions or agencies in East or Southeast Asia for each of the 15 Luce Scholars. Some scholars teach or do research, but none is formally enrolled in a university and no academic credit is exten­ded. 
Those interested should contact 
• .-:l 
Mardi Gras '77 • 
"HOLLYWOOD" 
ATTENTION BOOTH CHAIRMEN 
MEETING NOV. 2 
7:30 
BRING BOOTH DESIGNS 

PRESENTS 
Dr. Donald P. Costello of the English department or pick up an application in Room 356 O'Shaugh­nessy. The deadline for applica­tions is 9 a.m. November 17. 
End televised relegious services 
Madilyn Marray O'Hare, whose efforts successfully eliminated the use of Bible reading and prayer from all public schools, has been granted a hearing by the Federal CommunicationsCommissionon the subject of televised religious broad­casts. 
O'Hare will bring a petition with 27,000 signatures to the hearing to support her belief that all Sunday worship services currently being broadcast should cease. Religious broadcasts are presently consi­dered a fulfillment of FCC require­ments for public service broad­casts. 
All dissenting or supportive mail should be addrr,.sed ~o: Federal Communications Commission 1919 
M. Street, N.W .. Washington D.C. 20036 (Re: Petition No. RM 2493.) 
arm 
Barber & Hair 
. ­
Style Shop 
a 

Open six days 
a week 
Sat 8 to 3:00 , 1437 N. Ironwood South Bend Appointment only.o 277-0615 , ­Close to Campus 
8 

HURRICANES 9 -12
Oldie's Night 
TUESDAY '.25 DRAFTS 
$1.00 ALL NIGHT 
Come down and enjoy cocktails with us while we watch the election returns. '.25 MIXED DRINKS 
live Country-Western entertainment Wednesday night! 
.. 

Big names head list of free agents 
NEW YORK AP -The official Campbell. became the eighth Oakland free starting lineup for Thursday's free If the team could play with a agent. 
agent draft was posted Monday. designated hitter, the best bet Colbert is the first player to There are 24 available players, would be Richie Hebner, a good become a free agent because of the about half of them All-Stars, and if hitter who has had defensive new contract between the owners these free agents could somehow problems at third base for Pitts­and the Players Association. The form their own team, it would be on burgh, tentative agreement, ratified in of the best in baseball. Th'e draft of negotiation rights to August, allows six-year major
The starting outfield would con­the two dozen . free players will leaguers to become free agentssist of Reggie Jackson, Gary begin at 10 a.m. EST at the Plaza after the expiration of their con­matthews and Don Baylor. The Hotel. Each player can be drafted tracts. infield would be first rate with Joe by 12 teams before he is taken off Colbert was signed by the A's 
Rudi at first, Bobby Grich at the eligibility lists. He can then afier the ratification of the contract second. Bert Campaneris at short­negotiate with those 12 clubs, plus between the owners and the Play­stop and Sal Bando at third. Dave his former team. ers Association. At the end of the Cash, an All-Star at second base The final figure of 24 free agents season. he gave notice to the A's with Philaselphia, would be · a is close to what officials of the that he was exercising his right to utility infielder on this dream team. Players Association predicted in become a free agent.
Gene Tenace would catch for a the spring. orne owners said the The other 23 free agents gainedstarting rotation of Don Gullett, free agent rolls would swell into the their status by not signing their Wayne Garland, Doyle Alexander hundreds. 1976 contracts. That method of and Steve Stone. And if they falter, Recently. Mike Miley of Califor­reaching free agency was opened to 
the two best right-handed relievers nia and Wayne Twitchell of Phila­them by arbitrator Peter Seitz' 1975 in the American League are avail­delphia both reached agreement decision, which was upheld by two ~ble -Rollie Fingers and Bill with their teams and Nate Colbert federal courts. 
Irish ranked eleventh in polls 
a row. Michigan, which has been No. 1 during the entire regular 
Unbeaten Texas Tech continued to fifth. The Red Raiders replaced 
its steady climb in The Associated Maryland, which turned back Ken­Press' college football ratings to­campaign after standing second to tucky 24-14 but slipped from fifth to Nebraska in the preseason ratings, sixth with 668 points.
day, moving up to fifth place 
received 57 first-place votes and
behind holdover Michigan, Pitt, Rounding out the Top Ten are
1.228 of a possible 1,240 points
UCLA and Southern California. 
Georgia, Ohio State, Nebraska ­45-0 rout of Minnesota·. whLch remained seventh, eighthafter raising its record to 8-0 with a 
The Red Raiders of Tech were and ninth -and Florida, up fromunranked in the preseason AP poll 
Pitt, a 23-13 winner over Syra­
12th aft~r a 24-19 decision overand did not crack to Top Twenty 
cuse, received the other five first­
Auburn. Missouri. No. 10 a weekuntil the second week. However, in place ballots and 1,076 points. Last ago, dropped to 16th following athe last seven weeks they have 
week, Michigan's point lead was 20-19 loss to Oklahoma State.
climbed from 20th to 17th, 15th 1.184-1,068.
ninth, eighth, sixth, and now fifth. 
!'he Second Ten consists of Notre 
Tech boasts a 6-0 record following Dame, Arkansas, Oklahoma State,
UCLA downed Washington 30-21 
Saturday's 31-28 triumph over CoiL~ado, Alabama, Missouri, Ok­
and received 976 points while
Texas. 
lahoma, Texas A&M, Houston and
Southern Cal turned back Califor­
Texas.
The top four spots are filled by te nia and totaled 758 points. Texas Tech received 703 points in rising
same teams for the second week in The Top Twenty includes five teams from the Big Eight and five from the Southwest Conference.
Republicans should gain. 
Last week's Second Ten consist­ed of Notre Dame. Florida, Okla­homa. Arkansas. Texas, Oklahoma
added seats in Senate 
State. Alabama, Mississippi State. Colorado and Cincinnati. (continued from page 8) Mississippi State dropped out of
to win the seats of retiring Sens. 
the ranking following a 34-1 7 loss42-year-old trial lawyer Orrin G. Paul J. Fannin, R-Ariz., and Hiram to Alabama while Cincinnati disap­Hatch, would unseat Sen. Frank L. Fong, R-Hawaii, and to unseat peared after bowing to Georgia
Moss, another Democratic veteran Sen. J. Glenn Beall, R-Md., as well running for a fourth term. as Buckley. 
31-17. Meanwhile, Texas A&M In addition, Republicans express Altogether eight senators in the returned after a three-week ab­confidence they will pick up the present Congress are retiring, in­sence by crushing Southern Meth­
seats of\Sens. Stuart Symington, odist 36-0 while Houston reappear­
cluding Democratic Leader Mike 
ed following a one-week hiatus with D-Mo., and John 0. Pastore, Mansfield of Montana and Repub­a 49-21 thumping of Texas Chris­D-R.I., who are retiring. lican Leader Hugh Scott of Penn­tian.
However, the Democrats expect sylvania. 
NOTICES 

Due to circumstances beyond our control, the party at our house Saturday has been postponed. Sorry, y'all. 
Tex, Moon, Chip, Jungle 

Ai'\yone interested in starting an Asian-American club call Craig at 8693. 
MORRISSEY LOAN FUND $20-$150 1 day wait. 1 percent interest. Due in 20 days. Lafortune basement. M-F.l1:15-12-:15. 
Experienced guitarist to teach be­ginners. Call Jamie in Lyons 7966. 
Accurate, fast typin[l. Mrs. Donoho 232-0746. Hours: 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. 
Tickets for the November 11 Chica­go Stadium concert with The Eagles, featuring Joe W a Ish, and John David Soutier are now on sale at the River City Review Ticket Outlers: Just for the Record (1 oo Center) and Boogie Records (College Square). 
I' II type papers for you. Call 4565. 
Due to the time change, the Grey­
hound bus to Chicago will now leave 
the Main Circle at 5:45 every Friday. 
Call Tom at 8338 for seat reserva­
tions and further info. 
FOR RENT 3-room apt. Everything furnished. $100 per mo. Private bath. Call 288-9533. 
RENT MY UPSTAIRS. $40 per month. Close to campus. Call 233-1329. 
LOST AND FOUND Lost -to the nraduate business student who picked up the hitcher to the Library Thurs night, I left my calculator in your car (ST50Al. Please return. Call 233-4222. 
Nickie's parking lot"Borrowers" of 
£1Ym  ba[l  and  back  pack,  please  
return  to  717  St.  Louis  Blvd.  
233-3743.  

To the bstd. who stole Calif. license plate 565JM V I want it back! Call 1747. 
Lost: Last seen on cafeteria shel··es -blue nylon pack containin[l 5 books. Please call Pete 8337. 
Lost: six keys on a kilt pin, if found call 7607 anytime, reward. 
L.osl: Men's nold Bulova Acutron wrist watch in or between Sorin and South Dinin[l Hall. Friday 101!19. $$Reward. Call Barry 8462. 
WANTED 

Desperately need 3 GA Alabama tickets for parents and a priest. Call Stephanie 1364. 
Need Alabama tickets somethin fierce. Call Martha at 4819. 
Help! If I don't find another ticket 
I'm going to have to go to the Bama {lame Fredless! Ginger 4829. 
Wanted: Riders to Peoria, Ill. Nov. 12. Call 1678. 
Desperately need GA and student Bama tickets. Call 1487. 
Need One ticket to Miami game. 
Call Patty, 4-4904. 
Will pay top dollar for 2 Alabama GA tix. Call 8401. 
Need 2 or 4 Alabama tickets. Call Claire 6833. 
1 'Miami ticket and 1 GA Bama. 
Call 1060. 
Need Bama tickets will pay big bucks. Call 234-8891. 
3 GA fix needed for Alabama game. 
Call Br.h " 
Classified Ads 
r  
Need 1 GA Bama ticket. 288-5675.  Tony  
Need 2 GA Alabama tickets.  Need  

not be together. Call 289-1056. 
Need Alabama tickets! Will pay good price. Call Martha 4819. 
Need 2 or 4 Alabama tickets. Call Pe[l[IY 4-4381. 
Addressers wanted Immediately! Work at home no experience nedessary --excellent pay. Wrile American Service Suite 132, Minne­apolis, MN. 55426. 
Need 4 GA tickets for Alabama football name. Have unlimited funds. Call Bob 1461. 
Need 2 Alabama tickets. Call Martha at 1715 or 2116. 
Need 5 Bama tickets! Please have pity! Call Lisa 1343. 
Notre Dame 35, Alabama 0 Tom Clements, Wayne Bullock and Greg, Collins need many Alabama GA tix. Call 3300 or 3315. 
Please!!! 1 desperately need one' Alabama tix! Call Dave 1010. 
Heeelllpp! Our friends will hang us by our toes and tickle us to death if we do not get Miami and Alabama tickets. We don't need a good lau[lh. Ca"-Terri or Diane at 7853. 
Foxy SMC chick needs 2 Chicago tix for herself and foxy friend from out of town. Decent padded or center bleach·er. Call Mar 4397 .. 
One set dress-blues. Jacket 36, Pants 30-32. 272-2932 after 6 p.m. 
The other A's on the free agent list are Rudi, Baylor, Campaneris, Bando, Tenace, Fingers and 38­year-old Willie McCovey_ 
Oakland owner Charles 0. Fin­ley stands to lose 13 players from his organization this week. Besides six of the top free agents, who have expressed no desire to return to oakland, the A's will lose five players in Friday's draft by American League expansion teams Seattle and Toronto. 
Finley said Friday night that he was not going to participate in the free agent re-entry draft, then t:hanged his mind. No team can sign more than two free agents, except any team can as many free agents as it loses. 

''I will participate in the draft. even though I don't want to," Finley said on Saturday. 
"I don't belieye in it at all. But I will be there. I'm against it 110 per cent because it will lead to nothing but the destruction of the game. 
''I'm gonna go out a borrow money to be active in the draft. I'd be a damn fool not to. I've got to survive. 
*Observer 

Sports
• 
Prize offered for study 
vation of materials pertinent to theThe History of the University study of the University's history; toCommittee has decided to encour­encourage scholarly research. dis­age student research by inaugura­sertations. and other monographsting a fifty dollar prize for the best on various aspects of the Univer­historical study of any aspect of sity's past and to commission andNotre Dame life. The prize will be sponsor a definitive history of theoffered to any graduate and under­University at least by the sesqui­graduate students at Notre Dame centennial vear of 1 9<)2.
and Saint Mary's College. 

To be ~ligible for the prize, 
The Committee on the History of studies should be submitted to the University was established by Father · Thomas E. Blantz. uni­the universitv provost in the fall of versity archivist and committee 1973 with a threefold purpose: to ··hairman. Room 607 Memorial advise on the collection and preser-;brar~. on or be.fore March 31 . 
Election predictions 
Ford to overcome in the reg10n.
(continued from page 4) The same argument would apply inover for Carter. It the President South Carolina and Florida.

carried Pennsylvania by a larg_ over-all. in the East and South.

margin, the same would be true. 

if Carter does not come out of the Ford is -considered strong in Eastern time zone with a substan­Virginia. If Carter carries the 
tial lead, he's probably going to be state, it would be a sign that the 
in Plains, Ga .. next Jan. 20. when Georgian's Southern background the President is inaugurated on the was too much of an advantage for 
steps of the Capitol. 
FOR SALE 
For sale: Hitcahi receiver BSR Turntable $200. 233-2608. 
Aloe cosmetics -a wide variety of products. 4565. 
Book· Shop. Used books. Students Paradise. Open Wed., Sat., Sun. 9 
7. Ralph Casperson Books, 1303 Buchanan Road, Niles, Mich. 683 2888. 
MEXICAN BELTS: finest leather belts available only $10. Call BIG MONEY MURF anytime at 234-8858 For Sale: set of 8 long stemmed Coors [!lasses. Nice, make offer. 1478. 
1969 Datsun Classic 1800. All new paint, fires, interior. · Excellent condition. Low mileage. $2000 or better. 272-3236. 
For Sale: RCA portable stereo, $40, Call 6264 or 6265. 
PERSONALS 
Help three "nuns" kick the habit. 
Call 5279 or 5166. 
Sheila, Sorry about Saturday, again. Tell me how to make up for it. L. G. 
KEGGER AT CAMPUS VIEW!! FRIDAY NIGHT, 9 p.m. ALL INVITED!! 
Jimmy C. This is your day. Goodbye Jerry F. 
Well, we finally made it to Nov. without most of us going crazy. Thanx to the political staff who made it easy --Barb B., Pat Cole, Katie K., Vince M., Mark Fr., and Tim 0' Reiley. Take it easy and see you in 1984. 
_L_ 

Famous Death" odds: 
Spic 1-1 
Conno 5-1 
Pre-3-1 
Mac 8 5 
(Dubl2 2 1 
Snip 8 5 
Spic favorite but South Catholic could sweep! 
_____.:..,_ __~------· 
Thanks to Laura C. for bein[l a political conscience and Bob B. for being a political foil. Hope you enjoyed the New York Times (espec ially the editorials Bob! J 
The Passer 

Happy Birthday Marcia M. An anonymous f!dmirer 
Jan, Let's try to make the act work this time. 1still like you• The French Connection 
Senior Advisory Council Meetin[l 
Wed., Nov3 at 4:15 in Hayes-Healy 
Rm. 124. Any senior interes1ed in .class activities are invited. 
Faculty will exchan[le Miami tor any 2 Alabama tix and pay additional price or will buy outri[lht at any price 1671 or 288 6366. 
...Only 9 more days... 
Sweetheart, 
I'd rather worry about havin[l kids 
than nol having them. It's more fun 
that way. 

Sorry it's belated. but I remembered it anyway. Happy Birthday Janet S. Marj 
• 


12 the observer Tuesday, November 2, 1976 
~~--~~~ ~-------­
Teams jockey for 1-H playoff births 
by Ray O'Brien Sports Writer 
Several teams will be vying for playoff berths in this final week of interhall football play. The field wa~ narrowed down yesterday as both the North and South quad teams played a full slate of games. 
North Quad 
In the mo~t crucial game of the d;l\. Zahm edged by Stanford by the ~core of 6-0. The defenses dominated as neither teams offense could sustain a drive. The lone touchdown of the game carne when ,·orncrback Mike Stenger picked off a11 errant Stanford aerial and raced .~." yards for what pruvcd to be the \\inning score. Stanford made one ditch effort in the clo~ing minutes but Zahm safety Jim O'Brien

•· 
hnncked down a pass ip the end JllnL· on the very last play to assure /ahm of the win. Zahm is now 3-1-1 and can clinch a playoff spot if they c·an win thi;, week. The loss knocks <;tanford out of the divisional race. 
Keenan kicked its way past Holy Cro.,., to clinch at least a tie for the :-.lorth Quad crown. Keenan's accurate placekicker, Ed Danko, split the uprights from two yards out. Danko converted the extra point to end the scoring at 10-0. Keenan's Mark Norman intercept­ed two Holy Cross passes which killed offensive drives. 

Grace shutout Flanner 8-0 to stay alive in the playoff picture. Behind the fine blocking of Mike Reed and the rest of the offensive line, Grace drove for the only score of the day. Fullback Dave Batlock capped the drive on a 35-yard breakaway. The win upped Grace's record to 3-1-1 on the year. A win this week would assure them of a share in the North Quad title. 
South Quad 

Off-Campus looks like the team to beat this year. Yesterday they breezed by Fisher by a score of 14-0 for their fifth straight win of the season. Greg Zipf scored first for OC on a seven yard sweep. OC quarterback Bill Sahm connected with John Lesko for 18 yards and the second score. Jay Rafter picked off two Sahm passes for Fisher to keep the game from becoming a rout. Off Campus' defense has yet to be scored on this 

Sports Shorts 
:=:::=:=======================::=============~========:====================::=::;~=============::::= The Irish Eye 
Observer Sports Columnist Chip Spina has managed to draw a great dt:al of criticism over some of his work this year, particularly over his L·olumn on the Northwestern game. 
It's important for people to realize that anything that appears as a L·olumn is a eommcntar~· by the author. It is his opinion and should be accepted as that. Readers may disagree with what is said, but to accuse the author of hei.ng "irresponsible". "bush-league," "classless," etc. is utterlv absurd. 
Chi.p Spina doesn't need to be defended, and I won't attempt to do it. There's no reason to dignify the remarks of his critics with a defense. The thing of note in the situation is the reasoning behind the crtiicism Spina receives. No one criticizes his style or writing ability, rather they chose to make personal attacks on what he says--his opinion. That seems to be fairly typical of the Notre Dame student body, when an opinion different from their own is presented. -it's not different--it's wrong. 
Since this is a column. here's my opinion. Anyone who wants to disagree with an author's opinions is well within their rights. But there's just one word to describe anyone who accuse an author of being "irresponsible" or "unqualified" just because his views are different than the author's--stupid. 
Think about it . If the shoe fits. wear it. 
It's a shame, but it looks as if Jerry Koosman of the New York Mets is going to be robbed of the Cy YoungAward. Kooz has been a good pitcher throughout his career, but has suffered from obscurity since he has been fon.:echo pitch on the same staff as Tom Seaver. 
In the past, he has been known as a slow starter. pitching his best ball in clutch games during August and September. But this season he got it all together. compiling a 21-10 slate. 
I Despite having the greatest year of his career. he has already been 
l beaten out of a post-season all-star berth by San Diego'sRandyJones, and 
J Jones apparently is going to be able to ride a great first half of the year to the(\ Young. but it shouldn't be. 
I 
t The Cy Yound Award is supposed to go to the outstanding pitcher in each league for a particular year, not half-year. True, Jones was 22-14 on the season. but he was 5-11 in the second half. If the Cy Young should be given to someone who only pitched half a season, let's give it to Ray Burris <if the Cubs. He was 12-3 in the second half of the year. ~t to make the award meaningful, let's give it to someone who had a great season, not a great half-season. · ·. Jcrrv Koosman has toiled long and hard for the Mets. this year having hi~ best season. One can only hope that he gets the credit and the Cy Young Award he deserves. 
f 
With just two games remaining before bowl selections are scheduled to come out. Notre Dame appears to be in pretty good shape to be invited to a 
major bowl. . . The Rose Bowl is committed to the Pac Etght and the Btg Ten~ ,·ham pions. the Cotton Bowl is committed to the Southwestern Conference winner. the Sugar Bowl is committed to the Southeastern Congerence ,·hamp and the Orange Bowl is commit~ed t~ the Big Eight :winner. 
That only leaves three spots open. wtth Pittsburgh seemmgly ass~ red of ""L' of those spots (Orange Bowl), so there's a mad scramble shaptng ~p lt~r the remaining two. Notre Dame looks to be the only independent ~tt~ 
<I ~hot at a bid. Conference runners-up are the other contenders--Mtcht­gan or Ohio State, Oklahoma or Nebraska or Missouri or Oklahoma State or Colorado. UCLA or USC. Georgia or Florida, Texas Tech or Texas. There's some tough competition. but look for the Irish to be in the Sugar Bowl. 
One also has to wonder about the possibility of the lesser bowls (one 
llther than the major four). Last year Fr. Joyce said that Notre Dame 
would never attend such a bowl. At the beginning of this season, Da~ 
• Devine said that this year's team would definitely go to a bowl. Even tf the Irish don't get a major bowl bid, they will get an invitation to ?ne of the Jesser bowls. It would certainly be interesting to see what the lrtsh would opt to do. 
My apologies to WSND radio. In last Friday's issue, they were referred 
to as WNDU three times. Again , my apologies to Ted Robinson. Monte 
Towle and their fine staff. 
... 

Games become crucial as the lnterhall football season closes and teams scramble for playoff births. 
year. by Pat O'Connell and Tom Bosche. 
Morrissey stayed right on OC's Morrissey's record is now 5-I and heels by downing Sorin 12-6. they have one game remaining. Morrissey quarterback Jim Ed­wards opened the scoring by Dillon ran over Alumni by a score capping a drive on a one yard of 12-0. Dillon quarterback Tom sneak. The other Morrissey score Faver opened the scoring with a 35 which proved to be the clincher yard strike to split end Dick Byrne. came via a 2 yard dive by Dillon scored again later on a three runningback Jack McCarthy. Mor-yard plunge by fullback Frank rissey defensive tackles, Joe Levine Bleir. The Big Red defense was led anq Bill McMannis kept Sorin's by linebackers Eric Schmidt and running attack in check throughout Chris Pierson. Pierson intercepted the afternoon. The two touch-one pass and returned it 25 yards to downs were set up by the defense, set up an eventual score. The coming as a result of interceptions victory gives Dillon a 2-1-1 slate while Alumni dropped to t-5 on the 
season. 
Pangborn downed Howard-St. Ed's 14-0 to keep within reach of the South Quad title. John Franko was the star of this game as he intercepted two 'passes on defense and scored a touchdown from his quarterback position. The touch­down came on a broken play as he was forced to bootleg to his right and found daylight racing 18 yards for the score. Runningback Don Harmon scored the other touch­down on an 11 yard sweep. 
Badin u~sets top teams to capture football title 
by Win Palmer Sports Writer 
Badin Hall, the cinderella team 
of the playoffs, stunned Lewis Hall 
8-6 Sunday to win the champion­
ship game of the girls interhall 
football playoffs. Friday night 
Badin had ousted defending 
champion Lyons Hall 8-0 to move 
into the championship game while 
Lewis was busy edging Walsh Hall 
in a thriller 20-18. 
Badin started the season off with 
a bang by winning their first two 
games of the season but then they 
lost their remaining five games of 
the season. Thus they were forced 
to play Breen-Phillips Hall in a 
preliminary playoff game for the 
right to the fourth and final spot in 
the splayoffs. They won the game 
easily 22-0 and then they went on to 
beat second place Lyons (5-2) and 
regular season champion Lewis 
( 6-1) for the title. 
Badin 8 lewis 6 
All credit for this game must go to the outstanding Badin defense. They almost completely shut down the high-powered Lewis offense which had been the highest scoring team in the league. On many crucial third and fourth down situations the Badin defense rose to the occasion and stopped Lewis. 
Badin received the opening kick­off and promptly got themselves in trouble. On a fourth and one at the Lewis 47-yard line Julie Walters was stopped and Lewis took over. On the first play from scrimmage Sue Behnke, running like she did all season, burst into the open and scored on a 53-yard run. The extra point attempt was no good. 
Badin appeared to be in big trouble several series later when they mishandled a punt return and they received possesion of the ball on their own 7-yard line. But Julie Walters and Diane Halliwell com­bined for several first downs and then Halliwell outsidstanced the Lewis defense as she ran for 60 yards. Several plays later Walters ran the ball in from the 3-yard line for the touchdown. On the crucial extra point Julie Walters went up the middle to score and Badin was ahead 8-6. 
During the second half the Lewis defense completely shut down the Badin offense. However Badin's 
main concern was to prevent Lewis 
from scoring. Nose guard Mary 
Anne Kay and middle linebacker 
Chris Burns led the Bdin defense. 
They completely bottled up the 
running attack forcing Lewis to go 
to the air. Although quarterbafck 
Robin Jenkens of Lewis was able to 
complete several short passes she 
was not able to complete the long 
pass against the Badin secondary, 
headed by Patty Sheehan and Ellen 
Dorney. 
Lewis's main scoring threat in the second half came late in the game. Erin Burns ran for 18-yards to move the ball into Badin territory. On a third and 10 situation, Robin Jenkins lobbed a completion to Burns for another first down. Then on a fourth and 2 from the 30-yard line Suen Behnke scrambled for a first down as only 30 seconds showed on the clock. An incomplete pass followed· and then on the last play of the game Behnke, probably the most vaula­ble player during the season, was stopped by Jean Sculati and Badin had scored the upset. 
Badin8 lyonsO 
In a semifinal playoff game played Friday night Badin upset defending champion Lyons 8-0. Lyons received an early break as Anne Murphy blocked a Badin punt. Hwever, they were not able to capitalize on this error as they were stopped on a fourth and· 3 play. Badin was stopped again and Lyons put on a drive. Sparked by runs by Kathy McCann and Sheila Seufert they moved into Badin territor only to be once again stiffled on a fourth down play. Neither team was able to score in the first half. 
Badin's defense, aided by Chris Burns and Mary Anne Kay, contin­ued to thwart the Lyons offense in the second half. Even after Anne Peeler intercepted a Badin' pass and game Lyons excellent field position the Badin defense refused Walters moved the ball to the 2-yard line with a little under 30 seconds remaining in the game. On the next play quarterback Judy Tempel snuck into the end zone. The extra point was good. Time remained for two Lyons' plays. The first was an incomplete pass and the final play was a reverse by O'Haren that was stopped on the 40-yard line. 

lewis 20 Walsh 18 

In the only high scoring contest in the playoffs Lewis held on to edge Walsh 20-18. Lewis struck early as Erin Burns burst up the middle for a 54-yard touchdown. Walshcame back quickly as Anne Eisele tossed a 22-yard touchdown pass to Jay Decio. The key play in this drive was an Eisele sneak on a fourth and 1 on the 34. Neither team was able to score on their extra point attempts. 
On the ensuing kickoff Sue 

Brehnke went all the way as she dashed for 70 yards. Erin Burns scored the extra point for Lewis and they led 14-6. Walsh was not through for the half though. Anne Eisel, having a near perfect day completed several long passes. Then with just three seconds to go in the half she tossed a IS-yard touchdown pass to Becky Thornton. 
The extra point attempt was no good and the score at the half stook Lewis 14 and Walsh 6. 
In a highly spirited second half Walsh moved the first time they received possession of the ball. Eisele, getting great pass protec­tion from the Walsh offensive line, hit Decio and Thornfon for several long gaine. She then completed an apparent touchdown pass to Becky Thornton but the ball fell out of the hands of the receiver. On the very next play Eisele came back to Thornton and this time she made an outstanding catch to put Walsh ahead 18-14. 
Several series ~ater on the very first play from scrtmmage on a fake 
to budge. Lyons tried several 1pass.attempt Sue Behnke scrambl­reverses by Michelle O'Haren, ed for 69 yards and the go ahead their most potent play during the touchdown. Walsh had several regular season, but each time opportunities to score but each Badin's defense was there. time the Lewis defense rose to the 
Late in the game Julie Walters occasion and time ran out as Walsh of Badin made a long run down to was trying to score from the Lewis the Lyons' 20-yard line. Then 22-yard line. 



