
Fall completion slated for Huddle renovation 
by Chris Hopkins 
Staff Reoorter 
and 
Don Reimer Senior Staff Reporter 
The renovation and expansion of the Huddle will cost the University $300.000 and should be completed by the end of the fall semester, Bro. Just Paczesny, vice president for student affairs, has announced. 
Paczesny revealed the future plans for the Huddle at a town meeting two weeks ago. Among the revisions will be the addition of a Baskin-Robbins ice cream counter and the expansion of the Huddle's dining facilities to include a large Barnaby-style restaurant. 
The construction of the restaur­ant facility will necessitate extend­ing the Huddle over the roof of the pool room in LaFortune. An artist's conception of the restaurant shows a setting with heavy oak furniture and barrel-back chairs. Lighting fixtures will extend from the var­ious wooden beams creating what Paczesny envisions as "a cozy, softly lighted dining area." 
The new restaurant, which will be run by Notre Dame Food Service, will feature a menu that varies according to the patrons' demands. The menu will offer a fare ranging from steaks to pizza and hamburgers. besides the selec-
Huddle ice cream parlor to resemble Baskin-Robbin 
By Thomas O'Neil be located along the south service 
Features Editor line and will necessitate keeping 
both service lines open from 11 
"Baskin-Robbins will not be A.M. until closing. A student can moving into the Huddle," Tom still go through 1i.nes and get hot Grogan, manager of the Huddle, foods and cold drinks, Grogan said yesterday in response to explained. "The only difference confusion caused by a statement will be that the north line will made by Brother Just Paczesny at monopolize the breakfast items." the Town Meeting last month. To open the new parlor, the 
"The ice cream parlor will only Huddle will sponsor an "ice cream resemble Baskin-Robbins," he happy hour" on March 22. The continucd. "The University Food happy hour will be conducted Service will retain complete owner-between 6 and 8 P.M. and will ship and control of the operation." feature one-scoop cones for a 
The ice cream parlor will be built nickle. with the help of Swift Dairy Co., "Further happy hours will be the current contractors for the offered by the Huddle on a weekly Huddle's icc cream. Grogan ex-basis with varying specials," Gro­plaint·d. "We arc using their gan explained. "but we hope that assistance because of their ex per-the 'Grand Opening' one will icncc and knowledge. and they arc familiarize the students with the hdping us in turn because they arc new service." in the .. business of selling ice "The addition of an ice cream cream. parlor to the Huddle is not being 
'Thirty-two llavors of icc cream done on an experimental basis." he will he o.t'fered hy the new service," continued. "It will be a permanent Grogan continued. "Our expanded part of the whole LaFortune renov­number of icc cream products will at ion. We're beginning the con-include banana splits, upside-down struction on the II th of March by banana splits and a full range of removing what is now in the place sundaes. The service will be of the parlor, and we are sure we romplctt· with nuts, cherries and can finish the whole operation by fruit and whipped toppings. It'll be the time the students return from good and sticky and irresistable." break." 
Thc Huddle Renovation will be The new service will probable be completed by the end of mid-sem-called' 'The Irish Ice Cream Parlor' , 
l..t::!:~;;=~~=;;:::~~;;:::2:::;::::;:=;;;:::::;~h;:e::::;e:::;:;la;:i;:ne:;;d;.;;:;;;;;;;;;;:;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;:;;;;;;;;;;;;;;:;;;;;;;:;;;;;;'~ the momentum is swinging in the 
tion already offered by the Huddle. 
Also. because this restaurant will have extended hours to meet varying customer demands, the menu will vary with the hours, according to Paczesny. 
John Reid, assistant director of Student Activities, expressed hope that the new restaurant will attract a variety of people to the student center and allow for a mixing among students and faculty mem­bers. 
Paczesny explained rile purpose of the new facility is to 'provide an interesting and attractive eating place with a more substantial menu than sandwiches." He noted that there would not be a "21" bar because this restaurant will be open to all students. 
According to Reid. future plans for the area around LaFortune include the development of the courtyard bordered by Nieuwland, Hayes-Healy and Hoynes Hall into a park-like area for students to relax in. 
Paczesny voiced optimism about the completion of the new restaur­ant, including that he was not in the process of looking for benefac­tors interested in expanding the Huddle. "I have a positive feeling we will be able to get done on the schedule that we anticipate," he stated. 

Jackson leads primary field 
There were a lot of self-proclaim-· 
ed winners in Tuesday's primaries, 
but Jimmy Carter, who has done a 
lot of similar proclaiming in the 
past, wasn't among them. 
President Ford on the Republi­can side and Henry Jackson, George Wallace, and Morris Udall on the Democratic all saw good things in the day's results in Massachusetts and Vermont. 
But Carter, who won in Vermont and New Hampshire and had done well in early caucuses, was running fourth in Massachusetts, and a spokesman said "we were out resourced" by Jackson, Wallace and Udall. who ran ahead of him. 
Asked about Carter's prediction that he would at least finish in the top three, the spokesman, Hamil­ton Jordan, said: 'We were wrong.' 
Elsewhere, there was wide­spread cheer, with a notable excep­. . Sen. Birch Bayh of Indiana, was running seventh in Mass­usetts. 
Jackson credits labor support 
Jackson, who led the crowded Democratic field in Massachusetts, credited his considerable labor support for the showing and predie­ted even bigger things to come in the April 6 New York primary. 
'To get the Democraic nomina­tion, one must carry the industrial states," said the senator from Washington, who came in seventh in Massachusetts four years ago. "We're going to win New York ... it could even be a landslide, that's the meaning of Massachusetts." 
Wallace, running second to Jack­son in Massachusetts, said he considered it a victory if he finished in the top three. He told a rally in Miami: "Whether they like it or not, I'm running second and they thought I would run last." 
Ford, unopposed on the Republi­can ballot in Vermont and winner over Ronald Reagan in Massachu­setts had his say through his press secretary, Ron Nessen said: 
"Today's victories in Massachu­setts and Vermont and last week's victory in New Hampshire indicate 
award was Duggan, St. 
presented yesterday to John M. Mary's president, by Cathy Coyne, (Photo by Chris Smith) 
President's favor. The President looks forward to the Florida pri­mary next week." 
: .'.'..~

--::.· 
' --. 
. 

~ 
Udall, running third in Massa­chusetts took heart farom his showing as leader of the liberal group. "We're absolutely delight­ed; we buried the left," said Paul Tully, his state coordinator. 
Udall's goal had been to gain a position that would enable him tyo claim the clear lead among liberal Democrats, for what he said would be a direct confrontation with Carter or Jackson later in the primary season. 
But Bayh indicated the end might be near. 
"tomorrow," Bayh said in a statement, "I am going to meet with several others who have been involved in the campaign and we're going to together determine what role I should play in electing a Democratic president who can put this country in the kind of shape it should have been in all alonsz." 
In Vermont it was Carter all the 
Security apprehends Keenan Hall burglars 
by Frank Tennant Staff Reporter 

Director of Security, Arthur Pears said two teenagers were apprehended after attempting to rob a room in Keenan Hall on Thursday, February 26. The bur­glars were caught in their car at 8:26p.m. 
He described the non-student burglars as black males, ages 18 and 19. Security stopped the car and upon a "consent search found a butcher knife and a 22-calibre pistol with cartridges," Pears said. 
Security then took the two to the county jail and had warrants issu.d for their arrest. 
Pears said "its the same old story, they entered the room through the unlocked door.'' It was a combination room. he said, and one of the roommates who knew the others were out heard noises and surprised them. 
Pears praised the student's actions, "as the burglars ran out he grabbed a calculator from one, notified security and we were able to catch them." 
Through descriptions, the two possibly could have been the same two who were in Howard Hall the previous night. In that burglary a stereo was taken. 
Pears also revealed another in­cident which occurred on February 
18. At 4:54 a.m., security discov­ered a glass display case had been broken into in the Tom Dooley Room of LaFortune Student Center. Br. Francis Gorch, man­ager of LaFortune, said the robbery occurred between 12:30 a.m. and when security discovered it. He claimed "there was more than one person involved." Gorch noted a picture knocked off the wall and an overturned plant as an indication of their escape route. 
way. With 84 percent of the Vermont 
precincts  tallied,  this  was  the  
picture:  
Carter  11,801  or  44  percent;  

Shriver 7,930 or 30 percent; Harris 4,154 or 16 percent. Mrs. McCor­mack had to percent there. 
Ford men had been jittery about Massachusetts, even though they organized and advertised while Reagan didn't. There is a conser­vative bloc in the minority Republi­can party here. 
But Reagan didn't appear to be polling any votes outside that predictable base. 
With 31 percent of the precincts counted, it stood: Ford 21,479 or 62 percent; Reagan 11,929 or 34 percent. 
The other Republicans were voting no preference, which would send uncommitted delegates to the national convention. Ford and Reagan will divide 43 national convention delegates on the basis of their showings. 
In Vermont, with 84 percent of the vote in, the Republican vote broke this way: 
Ford 20.286 or 84 percent; Reagan 3, 735 or 16 percent. But neither party's delegates will be bound by the outcome there. 
Gorch said "they had to size up the job beforehand." The lock on the sliding glass door of the case was broken without cracking the glass. Gorch said it would take time to do that. 
Pears said the theives took many medals. including the Legion of Merit, which had heen awarded to Dr. Dooley. They also took three small boxes with crosses in them, three medium sized china cups with handles and an opiuru.oscale with weights. according to Pears. 
"To an individual they had no value but they did have great value to the university in the collection," said Gorch. "I don't know their intention in taking the things becll'Hse they would be hard to pawn," he added. 
Pears said they have no leads. There was no inventory of the items so Security had pictures taken of similar items and sent these to state, county and city authorities. 
Gorch concluded, "we can only hope this publicity will induce someone to bring them back.'' 
With spring break coming soon. Pears said security on campus will be the same as over the longer breaks. All halls will be open. he cited the directive from Dean Roemer, and doors will be secured from lunch Saturday, March 13 thru Sunday, March 21. Rectors will inform Security what kind of lock they want and what doors they want locked. Pears added it is important that students make sure their rector knows if they are staying over break. 
''I don't think leaving one door open is advisable," Pears said, "because it makes the hall just as vulnerable." He said the best way is to give each student a key so they let themselve in and out as they would at home. 
the observer Wednesday, March 3, 1976 

---News Briefs--­
t=================lntemational Radical bombings 
SAPPORO, Japan --A powerful explosion in a state office building that killed two persons and injured 85 touched off fears yesterday of a new wave of radical bombings in Japan. 
Police said they believed the blast in the entrance hall of the 12-story building as people were going to work was caused by a time bomb. Three hours after the explosion, an organization calling itself "East Asia Anti-Japanese Armed Front" said it had set the bomb to show opposition to "Japanese imperialism." 


t=====================================National 119th Mardi Gras 
NEW ORLEANS--Throngs of costumed maskers and colorful floats marked New Orleans' 119th annual Mardi Gras fling yesterday before the 40-day Lenten fast as thousands yelled the traditional "throw me something, mister" along carnival parade routes. 
Maskers cast a couple of million beads, baubles and carnival coins to the scrambling throngs from the rumbling floats of Rex, Comus, Zulu and 300-odd decorated trucks. 
Gas prices rose; will drop 
CIDCAGO --The price of gasoline in northern Indiana increased an average of 7.7 cents in the last year, but prices now appear to be headed back down, the Chicago Motor Club said yesterday. 
The organization said that in January 1974, the average price per gallon of regular gasoline in northern Indiana was 48.9 cents 


Cease CIA information 
ATLANTA --American missionaries and foreign clergy should cease giving any intelligence information to the CIA, the governing board of the National Council of Churches said yesterday. 
"We adopt a clear policy of repudiating any contacts whatsoever with the CIA," said Robert A. Thomas, vice president for the Overseas Ministries. 

...-On Campus Toda~'--.. 
9 am --forum, finance forum, hayes healy center 
1030 am --lecture, "the congressional budget process" by nancy barrett, graduate student lounge, Iafortune 
noon --workshop, hour-long placement workshop for graduate students by richard willemin, n.d. graduate student lounge, Iafortune 
12:15 
pm --seminar, "etiology of large bowel cancer" by dr. edward balish, university of wisconsin medical school, room 278, galvin aud 

12:15 
pm --mass, lenten mass, Iafortune ballroom 


3:30 pm --seminar, turbine engine integration and installation" by capt. a.e. fanning, ph.d., u.s. air force aeropropuls­ion lab, wright-patterson air force base room 303 engineering building 
5:15 pm --vespers, evensong vespers, log chapel 
6:30 pm --meeting, sailing club, 204 engineering building 
7 pm --mock political convention, opening talk by rev. theodore m. hesburgh, followed by robert s. strauss, chairman of the democratic national committee, stepan center 
7,9, & 11 pm film, monty python and the holy grai I, engineering aud, $1 
7:30pm--discusstion, "collective bargaining in higher educ­ation" by joseph schwartz, university club 
7:30 --dancing, folk dancing, free instruction, Iafortune ballroom 
8:15 pm --concert, marjorie h. maddey, soprano and patrick maloney, tenor, library auditorium 
midnite-album hour, wsnd 640 am; ozark mountain daredevils 
12:15 am --nocturne night flite, 88.9 fm, best in progressive rock, jazz and blues. tonite's host, tom paulius
, .,......................................................................................................... 
As U.N. ambassador 





Scranton nomination approved 

~ Management-oriented II Sales Trainees 1 
~ Ed Fanning Chevrolet, located in Aurora, Dlinois (soon to ~I be the seoond largest city in the state of Dlinois), will be on 1 ~ campus Thesday, March 9, 1976 to recruit management-on­
01111

I ented sales trainees who would be interested in a career ~I opportwlity with outstanding growth potential in the retail ~ ~ autorro~ile business. We are interested in young, ~ I aggressive sales personnel who will have the knowledge and ~I ability to grow with the future plans of the oornpany, who will ~ ~ be able to rrove on into management positions and beoome ~ lll!l leaders of men. ~ I The personnel we are seeking should have the desire for an Iill ambitious career which would lead them to dealershi,p ~ jiiJ management-ownership. II'! 
1.........................................................................." .....................1 
.... ~--·~ \.:-.r!'·':' l...~·~-l~· ;'~-.~ .. • .. ~ ..~#!'•! 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The Sen­ate Foreign Relations Committee on Tuesday approved the nomina­tion of William W. Scranton to be ambassador to the United Nations after Scranton vowed to respond forcefully to criticism from Third World nations. 
Scranton said that while he will offer cooperation and understand­ing to all, U.S. action to cut off foreign aid to nations that consist­ently obstruct legitimate U.S. goals "may be useful in certain places and certain times." 
But he added that while this tactic might offer useful leverage, "I don't think this is a weapon we'd want to use in great proliferation . We can overdo it. It should be used sparingly." 
The former Pennsylvania gov­ernor, a 1964 aspirant for the Republican presidential nomina­tion, said he supports full efforts to insure the military security of the state of Israel, but he said that at the same time it must also be recognized that ''without friends and helpfulness on the other side. our role will be extremely diffi­cult." 
Scranton said that while he 
approves of the way in which his 
predecessor, Daniel Patrick Moyn­
ihan, spoke back to hostile critics, 
"my style is obviously not like 
*The Observer 
Night Editor: Mar-ti (of Smic) Ass't Night Editor: Darling Debbie layout Staff: Le-ah Tuna, Pelt-it Jules, Stejas ThomKal, 
Beaux Jower Day Editor: The Fox Trotter Copy Reader: Ba Boom-Boom Bang 
Editorials: Commyn Jim, Han-Huli-Huli Sports: Bri-unk Ad layout: Sally Dentz, Tom Walrath, W.S. Nichols the Old, Mike Miller, and a finan­cially secure Tom Whelan Typists: Nelvill, Harli Terrin, Dyn Van Hyke, Haren-ink Night Controller: Rusti-Dave 
The Observer is published dally during the college semester except vacations by the stuoents of the University of Notre Dame •nd St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for 59 per semester ($16 per year) from The Observer Box· Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 
46556. 


RESEARCH 
FREE CATALOG! 
Write or call for your copy of our latest catalog of over 5,000 re­search studies. These studies are designed to HELP YOU IN THE PREPARATION of: 
• Research Papers 
• 
Essays • Case Studies 

• 
Speeches • Book Reviews WE ALSO DO CUSTOM WRITING 


MINUTE RESEARCH 1360 N. Sandburg, #1602 Chicago. Illinois 60610 
312-337-2704 

Pat's." Moynihan drew both praise and criticism for his flamboyant performance at the United Nations and the softspoken Scranton said Moynihan had succeeded in raising the morale of the American people. 
Scranton decried the recent UN vote equating Zionism with racism as "that terrible resolution." He said the world body had indulged in an ''everybody-jump-on-Israel type of performance." 
Scranton said he believes that 

the tide of confrontation may be 
receding at the United Nations. He 
said he would take to heart advice from senators who said the time may have come for the United States to display a more measured and tolerant attitude toward criti­cism from poor nations with legiti­mate aspirations for political inde­pendence and economic develop­ment. 
Scranton said that he and Presi­dent Ford have been friends for some time and that he will not hesitate to use the Cabinet rank the 
U.N. position gives him to speak up on a wide variety of issues, including the views of America's foreign critics. 
-···············································
• •
• JUNIORS!!!!!! last chance to have your Senior Pictures taken for. FREE!!!!! call 3557 today from 9a.m.-4p.m. ALSO.return proofs
• starting Monday MARCH 8
•
tn

Lafortune Basement 


Acareer in law­
withoutlaw school. 
Whal can you do with only a bachelor's degree? 
Now there is a way to bridge the gap between an undergraduate education and a challenging, respon­srble career. The lawyer's Assistant 1s able to do work traditionally done by lawyers. 
Three months of intensive training can give you the skills~the courses are taught by lawyers. You choose one of the seven courses offered~choose the c1ty in which you want to work. 
Smce 1970. The Institute for Paralegal Training has placed more than 1200 graduates m law firms. banks. and corporatrons in over 75 cities 
If you are a senior of high academic standing and are Interested m a career as a Lawyer's Assrstant. wed lrke to meet you. 
Contact your placement office for an Interview wrth our representatrve. 
We will vrsit your campus on 
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 24 
The Institute for Paralegal Training 
~3~ South Fill Str"t'l. PllrlndPipllrn. Pennsylvan"' 19103 (2151 732-6600 




~~~-·~-------------·---~---~-------­
' 

Wednesday, March 3, 1976 the observer
Discuss teacher evaluations 


Senators debate Academic Council structure 

SMC Student Government to hold election March 29 
by Marti Hogan Assistant Saint Mary's Editor 

Nominations for St. Mary's Student Government positions are slated to open Thursday. March 4 with each ticket's platform due midnight, March II. 
All second-semester sophomores arc eligible to run for the positions of Student Body President, Vice­President of Student Affairs and Vice-president of Academic Affairs. If the candidate is a transfer student. she must have completed at least two semesters at St. Mary's. 
"The candidates must run on a full ticket." said Mary Lou Bilek, vice president of Student Affairs. These three candidates will then submit one platform she added. 
Candidates must submit seven copies of a one page typed platform to Mindy Montesi, election com­missioner. in 298 LeMans, no later than March II. The platforms will then be posted in the dining hall for "the benefit of the student body." 
Candidates may conduct their campaigns from Monday, March 22 to Sunday, March 28 according to the campaign rules. Each can­didate will receive a list of these rules when she turns in her platform. 
Primary elections will be held Monday. March 29 followed by a second election if necessary on Tuesday, March 30. 
The new appointments will be­come effective immediately. For the remainder of the semester, the 


BICENTENNIAL 

SATURDAY, MARCH 6 9·1 STEPAN CENTER 
Follows Mock Convention 

REFRESHMENTS: TICKETS: Bread and Cheese SJ.OO couple COKE 2.50 delegates 7·Up & Orange alternates 'I'U 1\1.''1' ~tultlton~lu in tlw Hit~inK_IInll MUSIC by FAWN SEMI· FORMAL 
new members will work closely with this year's officers "to learn the ropes and t,, meet everyone they will be working with next year," Montesi explained. 
For the past three years each election has had one ticket running unopposed with abstentions ~o~nt­ing as votes for the maJonty, Montesi said. "Right now it looks like there is only going to be one ticket." she noted. She stressed the importance of a multi-ticket election hoping student interest will ick up before March 11. 

SHARE THE RIDE WITH US THIS 


VACATION 
AND GET ON TO AGOOD THING. 
Us means Greyhound. and a lot of your fellow students who are already on to a good thing. You leave when you like. Travel comfortably. Arrive refreshed and on time. You'll save money. too. over the increased air fares. Share the ride with us on weekends. Holidays. Anytime. Go Greyhound. 
GREYHOUND SERVICE 
ONE-ROUND· YOU CAN YOU TO WAY TRIP LEAVE ARRIVE 
Chicago 4.70 9.40 10:20am 11 :1Sam Cleveland 13.45 26.90 7:15am 1:45pm Detroit 13.55 25.75 11 :35am 4:45pm Alilly 45.75 4:00pm 9:40am
86.95 St. LDuis 18.70 35.55 9:30pm 5:15am 
Ask your agent about additional departures and return trips. 
GREYHOUND BUS TERMINAL 210 W. MONROE 287 -6541 
GO GREYHOUND 
..._..~nd leave th_e ~r~~~nu to us® 
Senate members also questioned the representative nature of the Academic Council in comments arising from discussion of a Senate proposal rejected by the Council at its Feb. 23 meeting. Among the issues debated were the accounta­bility of Council members to their constituencies and the balance of representation between faculty and administrative interests. 
Faculty Evaluations Committee Chairman Robert Farrow said in his progress report to the Senate that evaluatoin results are "used prom­inently by CAP (Committees on Appointments and Promotions) and the administration. "We don't know if it measures what it purports to measure," he noted, and "no validity. study has been conducted to our knowledge." 
His committee was concerned, Farrow said, by the "very general" nature of the questionnaire items and the ten per cent student response to the open forms. "They tend to the two extremes", Farrow said of the latter. 
Studies at other universities have discovered over 20 variables which affect such evaluations, Farrow said. They include the time of day at which the class meets. whether it is required or an elective. the type of class (lab. seminar, lecture) and the age of the professor. 
Farrow said his committee will examine the qualifying varibles at Notre Dame and conduct factor and item analysis of internal consisten­cy. They will use this data to compile a guide on "how to interpret the numbers for the benefit of the administration and CAP," he continued. Farrow noted that there currently exist no resources at the University to help faculty members who may find themselves defficient in some area of teaching, and siad his committee will recomment several Teacher Training programs and resources. 
Finally, Farrow reported thathis committee was examining more closely the possibility of replacing the current evaluation forms with a more valid form. . 
In other business, Senate Chair­

man Paul Conway reported that a Senate Committee report on the appointments and promotions pro­cess was passed in part by the Academic Council at its last meet­ing. _The Council approved a Senate recommendation outlining appointments and promotions procedures and providing for an explanation to the departmental CAP concerned when its recom­mendations are not accepted, by the provost or the president of the university. A section which would have established ad hoc commit­tees to hear cases appealed by the departmental CAP was rejected by the Academic Council. 
Conway said that the negative vote reflected a number of disagreements with parts of the propo~al rather than a solid block of opposition. The Senate voted to return the proposal to committee for further consideration. 
In discussing the CAP proposal. members of the Senate commented on the structure of the Academic Council. Senate member James Cushing stated that "the Academ­ic Council has no sense of repre­senting anybody" and said that the "sanitized minutes" and lack of roll call vote give Council members "no sense of accountability to their constituency." 
NEW 
MODEL! 

Senate member Vincent DeSan­tis noted that the Academic Council "is not democratic" and that "the president is not bound" by Council decisions. DeSantis also said that the Council is "stacked" and observed that assistant deans are not members of the Council, while assistants to the provost are. 
Senate Vice-Chairman Robert Kerby, who is an ex-officio member of the Academic Council, said that he has become "a firm believer in most of the criticism of the Aca­demic Council," but still believes that it is "the only constitutional way of changing things and it will not change unless we can present concrete proposals which represent a consensus of the Senate." 
The Senate defeated motion bv DeSantis th:!l it "go on rcl'Ord t;) ask the President of the UniversitY to consider giving up the Presi­dent's Dinner this Mav and term­inate the event effective Ma,. 1976, and to contribute the apprn~· imate cost of the dinner to tlw Notre Dame Hunger Coalition." 
Senate members argued that th<.· dinner is the onlv social event for the entire faculty, including tho!->e who have retired, and that it affords an opportunity to rCl'Ognize those faculty members who arc retiring or being promoted. 
SEE THE flllrTOTAL SYSTEM WITH THE NEW, LOW COST 


~9~!£~A3 
• 
Automatic thru-the-lens exposure control 

• 
PLUS ... total manual control option 

• 
Exposure "memory lock" 

• 
Control-center full-info viewfinder 

• 
Micro-touch shutter release 


FULL SYSTEM CAPABILITY WITH OVER 100 PROFESSIONAL COMPONENTS AND LENSES 

Cavalier Camera 
u.s. 31 At Bell Road 
Niles, Mi. 684-2640 and SCOTTSDALE MALL 

NOW ONLY 

$199.95 
COMPLETE WITH KONICA 50mm f/1.7 AUTO LENS 
by Maureen Flynn Campus Editor 

Teacher Evaluation forms should serve the primary purpose of providing "pertinent feedback" to help teachers improve their teach­ing ability and effectiveness, ac­cording to a report of the Faculty Senate Committee on Faculty Eval­uations. 
Speaking at a meeting of the full Senate last night, Committee Chairman Robert Farrow stated that the evaluations "should be for the benefit of the teacher and not for others to evaluate him in terms of raises, promotions, etc." 




Founded November 3, 1966 

The Observer is published by the students of the University EDITORIAL BOARD of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Com­mentaries are the views of individual editors. Opinions, cartoons and regular columns express the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and letters are encouraged to promote the free expression of varying opinions on campus. 
Editorials: 28J-1715 Ne..vs: 283-8661 Business: 283-7471 
Business Manager Tom Modglin Advertising Manager Tom Whelan 
Wednesday, March 3, 1976 · 

A Great Opportunity 
The Mock Convention, which begins to­national defense (not always too coherently) in night, provides a great opportwlity for the considerably more detail than the usual party students of Notre Dame to learn about the real platform, thus giving students a chance to 
workings of one of the key institutions in record their views on the issues in the presence American politics. 11 also gives the students an of the national leaders who have come to speak opportwlity to express their views on the at the convention. choice of the next president and on the course 
The idea of the Mock Convention wasAmerica should take in the next four years. 
created by the late Dr. Paul Bartholomew in College students are probably better infonn­1940 and he directed the later conventions until ed on political issues than the average citizen his death last December. The students whobut their knowledge in nearly all cases comes participate in this week's convention owesecond hand from newspapers, magazines and considerable gratitude to Dr. Bartholomew for books. The ronvention gives students a chance his idea and for his long effort on their behalf. 
to "learn by doing", to discover something of They should also rerognize the effort put in by how America really goes about selecting a those of their fellow students who did thepresident. 
organizational work needed to make theIn addition to nominating a president, the convention possible. 
students at the convention will also adopt a platform which is intended to represent the Whether you have signed up to take part in students of Notre Dame (and not necessarily the convention as a delegate or not be sure to the Deirocratic Party). The document adopted attend the convention's sessions and take part by the platform committee covers a great deal in Notre Dame's traditional performance of of ground, from abortion to the economy to America's great quadrennial ritual. 
commentary~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
Abortion: Just the Questions 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii.__ pa t ha nif;n 
the form ''What ought we to do created with your unique geneticPART I 
about X?" It is a question about information. But any cell in your existence or nature: "What is X?" body has precisely the same infor­Abortion is an issue which has If we want to know whether the mation. It is possible to growprobably attracted more fanatics on fetus is human we are going to cultures of human cells in the testboth sides than any other since the have to decide what a human being tube. Are such living, growingslavery controversy ended in civil is . Normally it is obvious whether cells with human genes humanwar. Fanatics are irrational but a particular cr~ature is human and beings? Do you take a human life if even reasonable people become hence the identifying characteristic you destroy the culture? Grantedeasily confused in the tangle of of an indisputably human being that such a culture will never growinterconnected questions surround­over nine months. The question of into an adult human; but if theing abortion. This was obvious in fetal status can, therefore, be crucial distinction between cultur~the debate over abortion at the phrased as What are the minimal and zygote is what will happen torecent Mock Convention platform characteristics which mark a creat­them in the future, are you talkingcommittee hearings and will likely ure as definitely huiJlan? about human life or merely aboutbe even more apparent when all There are three possiqle kinds of potential human life?
700 delegates try to debate the 
evidence about th'e status of the

issue. This two-part commentary Some have suggested drawing
fetus: scientific and medical, theo­

will try to untangle some of the the line when the fetus shows brain 
logical, and philosophical. The

questions, just the questions, not waves and a heartbeat. This is
scientists and doctors have charted

the answers. This is ambitious based on an analogy with the new
the development of the fetus and

enough. definition of death. Is the defini­
can tell us at what age it acquires

The first questions determine the tion of death adequate? Is the
which characteristics and abilities. 

area of the issue we are talking analogy appropriate? 
But they cannot tell us the point at

about: In what circumstances, if which it becomes human: that Some suggest viability, the pointany, is abortion moral? In what depends on which characteristics when the fetus could survive on itscircumstances, ifany should abor­we believe are sure signs of own outside the womb. Buttion be legal? These two questions humanness. The theologians can viability depends greatly on the are distinct. Not everything which offer help to those of their own quality of medical aid available. Isis immoral should be made illegal, religion. But those who are an American fetus human earlier nor is everything which should be irreligious will find little help from than a Bengali fetus becauselegal necessarily moral. For in­them and we are looking for a American medicine can keep it stance: according to the Ninth and generally acceptable answer. The alive at an earlier date? What isTenth Commandments, covetous most crucial evidence will come meant by surviving "on its own"?
thoughts are immoral but it would from philosophical analysis. Since A newborn baby is as dependent onbe ridiculous to make them illegal the Greeks first tried to define man its mother for all necessities (ex­since the law would be unenforce­as a rational animal there has been cept oxygen) as it was while still inable. Premarital sex is legal in 
philosophical debate on what a man the womb.
civilized jurisdictions (although not is.
at certain institutions of higher The Supreme Court decision has
Philosophical questions may be

learning) but this does not make it effectively made birth the cut-line
raised about all the cut-lines be­

moral. by allowing third trimester abortion 
tween human and non-human 

Let us look at the moral issue for vaguely defined reasons of
which have been drawn across the

first. We come here to the key "health". But what crucial char­
course of fetal development. The 

acteristics does the newborn babyquestion of the whole debate: What 
strictest pro-life people draw the 

have that it did not have as a fetusis the status of the fetus (using 
line at the start and say that the 

only hours before?
fetus here to cover the embryo and 
fetus is human from the moment of 

zygote as well)? This is not itself conception. They point to the fact This commentary will be com­an ethical question: a question of that at your conception a cell was pleted in tomorrow's Observer. 


SB 1: An Enemy 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiipat ric i a berge son 
For those who would like to fantasize that the days of Nixon's and Mitchell's regime of "law and order" is behind America, Senate Bill #1 (S-1) may come as a surprise. Officially named the "Criminal Justice Codification, Revision and Reform Act of 1975," it is ostensibly designed, with both liberal and conservative support, to modernize the Federal Criminal Code. Although its original purpose may have been just that, in the hands of Nixon's Justice Department the bill became a lengthy document of political repression. Today, S-1 is pending in the Senate ofthe United States. 
Unless it is soundly defeated, our constitutional and democratic rights will be seriously compromised. 
S-1 embodies a major assault on the First Amendment. It revives the provisions of the infamous Smith Act, which was passed 30 years ago and later became the basis for the McCarthy witch-hunts of the 1950's. The Smith Act prohibited anyone from advocating or teaching the desirability of overthrowing the government by force or violence. In 1957, the Supreme Court found the Smith Act to be essentially unconstitutional. However, S-1 reverts to the Smith Act, albeit in a disguised form. The term "advocacy" is not used but instead the words "incitement to ...conduct"' are substituted. A person is liable for a prison term of 15 years and a fine of $100,000 if, ·'with intent to bring about the forcible overthrow or destruction of the government of the United States or of any state as speedily as circumstances permit, he incites other persons to engage in conduct that then or at some future time would facilitate overthrow or destruction of such government; or organizes, leads, recruits members for, or participates as an active member in, an organization or group that has as a purpose such incitement.'' 
The use of such terms as "incites," "speedily as circumstances permits," "at some future time" and "facilitate" obviously gives the prosecutor unbridled discretion. Under such language, nearly anyone who voices a "radical" opinion of the government could neatly fit within the statutory prohibition. The activity proscribed is so far away from immediate action that advocacy is indeed being penalized. S-1 could then easily become the legal basis for a police state. 
S-1 also defines a "riot" as a "public disturbance involving an assemblage of 10 or more persons that, by violent and tumultuous conduct, creates a grave danger of injury or damage to persons or property.'' This definition requires proof that the danger was "grave" but the threatened "injury or damage" need not be significant. The civil rights and antiwar demonstrations of the past would then be tantamount to a riot, and participators could face a 3 or 7 year prison term. The right to assemble could well become a thing of the past under S-1. 
The national defense provisions of S-1 are equally as chilling. S-1 would make it a crime to delay or obstruct the "production, repair, or delivery" of any property suited for "national defense use" if the activity would be done ''in reckless disregard of the fact that this conduct might impair the ability of the U.S. to prepare for defense activities." Such activities as picket lines to protest napalm manufacture or protests against arms shipments to foreign governments might fall within the prohibition.· The penalty is 3 years in jail and can be increased to 7 years during a "national defense emergency," which the President is authorized to declare whenever he finds an "actual or threatened disturbance of the international relations of the U.S." Other provisions of S-1 redefine treason, sabotage, and sedition in similarly vague language. 
These are only examples of the ominous implications S-1 would have on our constitutional freedoms. What is so puzzling is the lack of publicity that the bill has received in the "responsible" press. Radical papers and underground weeklies have publicized the dangers of S-1 but the majority of the American public is unaware of this legislation. The American Civil Liberties Union and the National Lawyers Guild have taken up the fight against S-1 but they have encountered stiff resistance from the Ford Administration. Only powerful pressure from the people, in the form of letters, telegrams, and petitions, will stop S-1's passage. It would be indeed be tragic if, by their silence and passivity, the American people condone a return to repression. 
DOONESBURY by Garry Trudeau 
Y&S, 511<. CHAII<MAN MAO HA5 ALWAYS 8&&N HAR.T? 70 IJN[)tR.­5TANO BECAUSE HE 5PEAK5 AN 08SCU/i$ RURAL fJIAJ.£Cr. ANOMJW WITH 711& STROKE, I SEeM 70 8& 7H& TRANSLA~ aHJCAN 
snttIJtiJfi<:S7/J.NHIM. 
/ 
Yli5, 5/R.. 
IN A WAY, 
l'MSO!<TOF RVNN!Ne 71-1& 
I'LL-!<UP
COUNTRY. 
7HAT IN
I 
M!NIJ. I 


~----~------------------~-~----------------­
Wednesday, March 3, 1976 the observer 
5 

Liberated woman: free like man? 
by Jeau O'Meara a woman's worth on sexist rather established in terms of man, rather well as liberal camps, Gannon working women in America are Staff Reporter than human scales. than in terms of human nature," believes. "The liberal sees woman married and in lower income "Women are liberated in so far Gannon stressed. as being free to do what man does, groups. "The greater number of
In an informal talk Monday 
evening. Sister Ann Ida Gannon, as they are free to do what men do, Gannon, a past winner of the while the conservative puts woman women we become college grad­not because it's fulfilling, but Laetare Medal, spoke to a small in the elevated role of the fulfilled uates, the greater effect this will
past president of Mundelein Col­
because men can do it," she said. predominately female group, tak­mother.'' have on all women."
lege, challenged the norms of both "The nature and value of woman is ing issue with churchmen through "We have overburdened sex too Gannon explained the women'sChurch and societv which evaluate 
I

the ages from Thomas Aquinas to long as a means of identifying movement came about mainlv 
I

Bishop Fulton Sheen. "Aquinas," happiness. The myth that only through social change, womci1 
I

she said, "saw women as incom­through sex can we be fulfilled is getting to college and questioning 
I

plete men." Therefore, something what makes daytime television their roles more closely. They saw 
I

was missing in their make-up." dramas so sickening." she said. more options, not just for them­
I

The woman is cast in the role of one selves. but for all women.
"Little wonder," she added, who exists to please or displease In response to a question con· I 
"that women couldn't be I
the man. Sad to sav, she continued, cerning the apparent social stanL'L'ordained." 
I

"many women over 40 are watch­of the Church, holding back option~
Bishop Sheen. on the other hand, I
ing and living out their lives for women while at the same tilllL' saw only the "motherhood role" 
I

committed to this visual statement stressing equality for all pcopll'.
for all women. If a woman was not a I
of society's evaluation of the fe­Gannon responded that the Churl'h mother physically, then the only 
I

male.'' is making extraordinary cfhu·t inrole left was "Spiritual Mother­
I

What we should be about. this area, bt;t since the Church 1'hood ... her crowning glory." 
I

stressed Gannon, is far more identified with culture and tlUI' "We've been in a box too long!" positive than being a part of this attitudes spring from that culturL·. I exclaimed Gannon. "The tradition­sort of passivity. "Women should the laws of the Church follow thl' I 
I

al role that both the Church and have a share in dealing with the changes in culture. Gannon ~ug· Society sancton is that of the weak, serious questions of our time: race, gested more women study phihh­I protected, submissive, periodically war, peace, hunger." ophy and moral theology. · · \\" I 
unstable female. This box is a New aspects of the problem should be committed to this is~tH.:. · · I product of our own cultural hang­surfaced during the lengthy ques­she said. -I ups and we must get ourselves out tion period. Asked if sexism was a This was the tifth and final talk in I of that box!" problem confined to the middle the Speakers' Series sponsored b~ I 
Sister Ida Gannon challenges women's role in the Church. (Photo Sexism in our society is found in class, Gannon agreed. She stated the Advisory Council of Women I by Mike Kron) the extreme of both conservative as further that 54 per cent of the Students. I I 

I


Housing for graduation restricted 
I 
I 

by Barbara Breitenstein issued February 17 by Student stay last year. 
I 
I

Staff Reporter Affairs. "They were not as specific as 
j

Prompted by a misunderstand­"We compile a list of students this year," she said. "On the whole 
ing of the graduation housing who are staying for graduation," it just depended on the student 
I 

directive last year, the Student Paczesny explained, "and then the coming to the rector and saying, 'I 
I 

Affairs office has issued a more left-over rooms are given to want to stay,' and why. We really 
l 
i I

specific statement of policy this parents." had no way of checking on anyone 
year. •'There has been no change in and it was difficult to decide." The previous directive, which policy this year," Paczesny cont­"The guidelines are very clear stated that students who submitted inued. "It's always been that .•
this year," Counts continued. "It's 
legitimate reason for staying on students must vacate their rooms out of the rector's hands." 
campus to their rectors would be by 24 hours after the last test, and 
Fifteen dorms including Lewis e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e • 
allowed to remain for graduation, this has not changed." 
Hall will be made available for use •• ,..., llfiJIIIUt·at •• 
was misunderstood by new rectors The difficulties with having by guests of the over 2200 IW •r ~ 
and rectors of female dorms last enough housing for parents and 
graduates this year. The number of • -~ e 
year, according to Brother Just complaints of noise from parties 
guests per graduate is not limited •. llancakr dUSt ' .•
Paczesny, Vice-President of Stud­last year were other reasons why by the University. fJ ent Affairs. housing will be handled through lhe mistake caused a shortage of 
the CAC, according to Francis Fr. Griffin to say : FEATURING... ,, :
beds for parents wishing to stay in Foss, Conference Coordinator of dormitories for graduation. This the CCE and chairman of the CAC. 

daily Lent Masses: LARGE, OVEN-BAKED : 
was due to the large number of "Last year too many people students who remained in the stayed," Foss said. "It made Fr. Robert Griffin will be saying : APPLE PANCAKES : dorms. housing parents more difficult and 
Ma~s daily Mo~day through Friday • A REAl TREAT •
"We were able to cover for it," also there was more noise. Some durtng Lent m the LaFortune • --e Paczesny said, but two additional parties caused complaints and 
Ballroom. The Masses will be • WE NEVER COMPROMISE WITH QUALITY I •
halls were opened to provide for parents were not able to get their celebrated each day at 12:15 p.m. • e 
extra housing. sleep." 
beginning today (which is Ash • U.S. 31 (Dixieway North) 
.w •

This year students who wish to "We tried to publicize the policy Wednesday). All are welcome to • (ACROSS FROM HOLIDAY INN) · • 
remain for the graduation activities quite early this year," Foss con­come to the services. Ashes will be • e must be a relative or fiance of a tinued. "We wanted to be fair to distributed at the Mass today. ,e • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • e e e • • • e • • 
graduate. They must submit a everyone." letter explaining this to the Com­Sr. Barbara Counts, Lyons' Hall mencement Accommodations Com­rector, who was a new rector at mittee (CAC) pf the Center for Notre Dame last year, complained 
Continuing Education (CCE) by that there were no rigid guidelines March 10. according to the letter which students were allowed to 





IN'EWS~~;'''h8~; 
DOONESBURY by Garry Trudeau 
i!.... ~ five day editors~ 0 ·••· 
Ill 

:i-c
Q) (1715,8661 ), and ~ -· CD ~ ~ Q. 
!! 
• 
"" ~ g '8 ::::1
~ ~ ~ ~ ~ m
!(J) : ~ I [ ::::s· 
!lV) 3: i ~ ~ cc 
\! ( J ~ ~ se SJ:~:::a::8:w s~ ~ 1! 
!lO ., sse sMau e o'i 
.•.... ._., ~.-.· 
. . ~::~:~::~:::!::~:::::!:::~::~::::::::::·:·:·:::::::~:::::~~;:~:;:~·:·:·:;...·.·:·:·:·:;:;:;:;:::::;;;;;}:·:=:::::::;:;:::::::::::::::::::,:;:;:::~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::.:::::::::::.:::::::::;:!:::~:=:::~~:!:;:::::::::::::::::::::~~;,;~:.::~:=*~ 
('•. 



-----------~ --­
the observer Wednesday, March 3, 1976
6 

! 
I 
I 
I 
I 
! 
I I I 
l I I I­I I 
~ 
I I 
I 
I I l I l I I I I I 
~ 

Editor's note: Tax Tips is a weekly feature in the Observer as a service to its readers in filling out their income tax forms. Questions may be sent to the Observer, Tax Tips, Box Q,LaFortuneStudent Center. The questions and answers by Professors Kenneth Milani and James Witten bach of the Accounting Department will be printed in the Observer. 
Ql. I a~ an accounting major graduating in May. I will be paying a $65 filmg fee to take the CPA exam. Can I deduct this fee as a business expense? 
.\. No. Professional accreditation fees paid for such things as bar exams. accounting certificates or medical and dental licenses are not deductible as business expenses. Expenses incurred to meet minimum educational requirements in your job are not deductible. However. courses tak_en to mai~tain or improve skills required in ~·our Job are deducttble. provtded they do not meet minimal educational requirements, or qualify you for a new trade or business. Therefore. if you take a CPA review course in the future vou may be able to deduct the cost of this course. 
Q2. I have some Series E Savings bonds that my parents bought for me several years ago. When I redeem these, will I have to pay taxes on the interest? 
A. Yes. If the bonds were bought in your name, all the interest is taxable to you, even if your parents paid for the bonds. Series E ?onds ar_e issued at a ~iscount (less than face value) and they ~ncrease 1n value dependmg on how long they are held. The entire mcrease over the amount paid for the bonds is taxable. You may either be taxed for the entire increase when you redeem the bonds, or pay tax on that increase which takes place during each year that you hold the bonds. 
Tuesday, Mard19 at 8:15 P.M.


onventlon coverage limited !lakota" posters. sponsoring ~ov-
C tes and happy hours and posstbly 
O'l.AUGHLIN AUDITORIUM 

I • • organizing car to transport the 
1St. Ma s ADMISSION FREE-TICKETS 284-4176
to SoUth Bend teIeVISIOn members back to the homesteads 
during breaks. 

By Jim Hershey The South Bend Tribune plans to Staff Reporter send a reporter to the press conferences and to each of the 
Though local news media will sessions. cover Notre Dame's Mock Demo­None of the major networks have cratic National Convention, the decided to cover the convention, national networks do not plan any although CBS has considered cov­coverage. ering it. 
CBS affiliate WSBT-TV plans Kate Bernard, the convention's television coverage for each day of spokeswoman, explained that none the convention. On the 6 P.M. of the candidates can afford to Eyewitness News they will recap appear here because ufthe import­the events of the preceding night. ance of the Massachusetts and On the II P.M. news they will Florida primaries. If they were 
cover some of that night's events. able to appear, the national news Finally. on Sunday night from media would have probably given 6-6:30 P.M. the show "Assignment the convention more coverage. 22"' will feature the highlights of the convention. 
Jack Bowe, WSBT-TV News Sign-ups for the Director, mentioned that the con­vention is a good news item 

Pitt Club bus 
because in the twelve Mock Politi­

cal Conventions here, student dele People wishing to take the spring gates have chosen the eventual break Pitt Club bus have till Friday 



r-------------------------­
presidential candidate ten times. to sign up. WNDU-TV, an affiliate of NBC, The bus will leave Friday, March will also cover the convention from 12, at 4:30 P.M. Students can beginning to end. Every night they board at either the CCE or SMC's 
1 





JUNIORS I
will send out a cameraman and Holy Cross Hall. It will return· reporter to cover the press confer­March 21 at 1:00 P.M. from the ence on sound film and some of the Pittsburgh Greyhound Bus Termin­remaining events on silent film. al. WNDU's assignment editor said Round trip tickets cost club 
!You are invited to teach in the !
that Wednesday night's speech by members $27 and non-members 
Democratic National Chairman $30. One way tickets cost $15. Robert Strauss will occupy a high For information and reservations place in the 11 P.M. news. call T J at 7443. 
1 Freshman 1 SPECIAL SPRING SALE 
I Colloquium I 
!Kodak! 

t t 
t Teaching the Senior-Freshman Colloquium is a f.INSTAMATIC 20 OUI'FYI' t ~wardinft personal experience and a valuable contribu-t
INCLUDES CAMERA, MAGICUBE. 

tion to life at Notre Dame. Flfteen juniors will be
MAGICUBE EXTENDER, FILM, 

t chosen now to teach next year. This is the only time f
WRIST STRAP, INSTRUCTIONS. 

t you may enter the program. t SPECIAL 
• t
t H you are interested in teaching, come to a meeting on f

$24.75 

LIST $39.95 Wednesday, March 3, at 4:30 in 104 O'Shaughnessy. ft FWl infonnation will be given then. H you cannot make f the meeting, call 7421 Thursday, March 4. It will NOT f
AULT CAMERA CO. t be possible to enter the program after Thursday. t 
127 S . MICHIGAN SOUTH BEND 233-6145 

~~~~~~-~~---,--,--.-------------__. 

-~-~­

For hall violations 



HPC favors appeals board 
By Matt .Kane going to work." He would then ing Dance Marathon which is being 
Staff Reporter carry this over to Hall J-Boards on held to raise money for the fight the suggestion of the council. against Muscular Dystrophy. He
HPC Chairman Elton Johnson "J-boards have to take on more hoped each hall will sponsor aproposed having a student appeals responsibility," he said after the dance couple (only couples spon­board for students who have been 
meeting. sored by an organization of somethrown off-campus for hall violation Some council members thought type could enter). The marathonat last night's HPC meeting. 
there was confusion over where would be run March 26 through 28Johnson said there should be some hall violations ended and university in the LaFortune Ballroom.
place students could appeal their violations begin. One member Also attending the meeting wererector's decision. 
thought there should be some two representatives from Psycho­Out going Howard Hall Presi­

definite line drawn while another logical services. They came todent and SLC representative for thought the rector should have explain to the council the workingsthe HPC Mike Welsh cited in flexibility in dealing with different of the service and to clear up anyUniversity regulations that student situations. The council postponed misconceptions. "We considercan appeal to the Dean of Students any more discussion to the next ourselves to be more concernedany decision made by the rector on 
meeting. with the students over all growthhall violations. But Johnson, 
Johnson also proposed along and adjustment rather than withvoicing the opinions of most mem­with the appeals board a survey on crisis intervention," one represent­bers, said the Dean will usually how students feel about the Obser­ative stated. He said he didn'tsupport the rector. "The Dean ver, if its doing its job or not. He want to have students think "wefears he will hurt the credibility of also anounced plans for the HPC were a psychiatric ward."
the rector if he doesn't," said dinner in April and possibly some Bob Quackenbush, Executive CoJohnson. 
informal meetings so members ordinator for the HPC, announcedJohnson did not think the board could get to know each other some up-coming events for thisshould be lenient to the degree that ?etter. There was also a suggest­year's An Tostal. Along with theall decisions be made in favor of the IOn made by Johnson in conjunction Ugliest Man on Campus. Mr.
student. He said, ''The board has with a dinner held in honor of the Campus. and other contests, thereto gain the trust of the rectors if it is 
Holy Cross Fathers for their service will be an An Tostal Assassin to the South Bend area. He Service. The service will take'Double N.D.Ciub' suggested the halls pay for their roughly 100 of the highest bids rectors and assistant rectors dinner from people who would like the Anrevived by Comers to show their affection. Tostal Committee to throw a whip 
It was formally announced Wed­
Earlier in the meeting the HPC cream pie in the face of any one the heard Social Commissioner Charlie bidder wants. The money raisednesday that the North Dakota Club Moran briefly outline the up com-will go to charity.
has been revived. This long awai­


ted move to organize came after an absence of almost ten years that Notre Dame has not had the "Double N.D. Club" on its roster of organizations. 
The newly self-appointed officers are: John Nilles, president; Joe 
"Fargo"  Sitter,  vice  president;  
Charlie  "Buckwheat"  Stevens,  
secretary-treasurer.  

The activities the group plans to 
initiate include selling "Ski North 
JULIO'S 
now starring 
PAN PIZZA 
Phone 232-7919 

W illiarn Saroyan's 
MY HEART'S IN THE HIGHlANDS. 
With HEUO OUT THERE as an1ain raiser. {In mnjundion with the national Bicen­tennial Festival-"An Alrrost Chosen R:!ople") 





Pipes Papers 

Etc. 
newstand and general store 

~~~~~~~~;CH~!~ ~.r.r-:OOQOCX)OCOC~ 

Wednesday, March 3, 1976 the observer 7
State Tourney
SMC basketball team in finals f..................: ........................l 
by PatU Ruo= ed the inte.-e•t of not only "udent,. gid• who•vo neve< played togethe< ~ pRE CAN A 
~ 

Staff Reporter faculty and alumni, but the Chicago before this year. She had never ~ ~ 
The expression "overwhelming odds" becomes an understatement when one considers what the Saint Mary's basketball team has over­come to end up in the State Basketball Tourney this Friday at Terre Haute. 
If Coach Monica Doyle has any advice for the team's upcoming state tourney it's "to keep their heads together and we can take them." "Them" being the three other teams competing: Goshen, who has defeated them in the past; Franklin, whom they'll play in the first round; and Marion College from the Indianapolis area. • 
The State Tourney operates as follows: the runner-up of the northern sector plays the winner of the southern and vice versa. They 
play by double elimination with only one team going to the nation­als. The other teams continue to play for second, third and fourth positions, which means as things stand now Saint Mary's is fourth in the state. 
The team has practiced in insuf­ficient gym facilities--picture Regi­na North as a gym--as a new team with their new coach Doyle. Keeping these facts in mind, the results arc truly astounding. 
To begin with, every player on the team has scored and, more importantly, has enabled the coach to change starting positions and players at will. Needless to say this can only be done when a team plays as a team. 
As far as individual scoring goes, 
four players on the team have 
scored 100 points or more. Leading 
the regular season scoring is Meg 
Holland, a freshman from McLean, 
Virginia with 143 points. Holland 
is followed by junior Cathy Maddox 
of Wilmette, Ill., with 126 points, 
and freshmen Kathleen Cullen 
from Victoria, Texas and Martha 
Kelley from Paletine, 111.--both 
with 100 points even. 
The regular season's overall 
statistics are also impressive. The 
team has wound up with a 10-3 
record in season play and has 
qualified for the Indiana State 
tourney. Grace College had won 
56-53 and Indiana Institute of 
Technology had won 60-48 during 
the season. Saint Mary's conquer­
ed these defeats by shellacking 
Grace 61-38 after a halftime score 
of 32-30, and by inching past 
Indiana Institute 45-43 in a tightly 
played game in which they were 
down 23-22 at halftime. 
As for SMC-ND statistics, Saint 
Mary's defeated Notre Dame by a 
wide margin in its first match 
59-50. and a not-so-wide margin in 
the second game 28-27. 
All of these statistics have spark-
II w"""" 
WANTED: 2RJDES TO LDUISVIUE 
I FOR BREAK. CALL CAROL OR MAUREEJoj, 6834 or 1715.
I 
I 
"lneedarideto lbstonlor<n-ingbreak. 
...,... 

I 
Will shcre driving il1d expenses. Call Sheila 1253." 
I Need a ride horre lor break? Wilson D'illl!iMElY has ur.; going to mYIYI destinations in the u.s i'fld al 'tOO pay is 
I 
gas. Rlr' intonration il1d <q>tications 
I 
call Jim at 1745. 
Ride needed to OkJitlOml City. Call GregI 8833 $$ il1d dri~. 
I Wi'fll a ride to il1d from CUlver over 
I 
I spring break. Will help dri~ il1d pay for gas. Call Jim 3258 late ~ings or at 
llA'ldl. 

I l:e;peratefy need to buy vehide able to 
I tr<t'lSjXll11ess $60.00. call 1108. 
I 
I D!sperately need cr1y NCAA tix. call lilura 4264 i'fly price!!! 
I 
Ride IM'I11ed to l..on1lard. 11 Friday rrEI'Ct1 
5 or Sat. Call Cirol at 6888. 

I Need ride to C8yton for 2 this 'M!ekend. 
Rease call K. a at 4 4827. \ :.-­
Tribune, which covered the second SMC-ND game and will be featur­ing an article on Saint Mary's future. Recreation c;~nter in an 
upcomtng Sunday edttton. 


As assistant dean of students Stevie Wernig pointed out, "They­'re doing so well without the gym, just think of what they could do with it." 
Credit cannot be given to the team alone. however, as they'd be the first to point out. Coach Doyle, whose ten-year competitive tennis record seems an unlikely require­ment for a basketball coach, has done an outstanding iob with 13 
coached basket~all althou~h she has "had expenence coachtng and being coached." Perhaps more bask~tball coac?es s~ould look into 
tenms. Doyle s attttude towards the future, however, is to "take each game one at a time" and sees one of the team's greatest attri­
butes in their "relaxed attitude... 

"They're out there to have fun--which is probably the whole 
philosophy behind it," explains Doyle. "Losses to Manchester and Goshen didn't up~.et them because 
they played well. Other coaches have noticed and complimented Doyle on the team's behavior. 
If they should take it all at the tourney, Saint Mary's would be heading for the nationals in Akron, Ohio. Supporters can still ride with the team to the State Tourney this Friday as of this moment for $10, which covers hotel costs. 
Saint Mary's begins its first match at 8 p.m. in Terre Haut~ against Franklin. Hopefully, the whole Saint Mary's-Notre Dame community will be behind them. 
Tom McMahon General Agent 

Manny Avila Agent 

;·~ 
Karen Wentland Agent





#,.. 
f
~·~~_.~...J \, ~ 
-­
,,.;), 
,, '"~'ij;·
.. Diane Long Agent 
'Tt>araftt>r \ear. Ist>mt>stt>r'aftt>r St'mt'Sft'r. fht' ('( •llt>~t' Mast t'r from Fidl'lity linion [jf(.-has llt't>n the most at't't>ptt'<l. most popular plan on rampust•s all mt'r Anwrica. 
Find out win. 
Call tlw 
Fidt>litY l Jnion 
Colh.·~c!Vlash.•r 
.Fidd Assodatl' 
m your art>a: 
1 005 E. LaSalle 
South Bend, Ind. 
Phone 287-2327 
-~-· 
··~ (( )llc~0.\ b"ll'l' 
' 

~-------------------------------------------~ 
...._.................. ~-Classified Ads 
in the a-ea of CHAPEL HIU. N.C. for spring break. Will provide usual de­
rrmds for transportation 288-8417. 
i:e;peratel y need ride to lndii'fl~l is this Friday, return Sunday. Call 4067. 
FOR SALE 

Aorida for Easter? Awid the airlines strike & buy a '68 Buick L.eSabre in good 
rondition. Call 233-5030 7pm12pm lor details. 
Rlr' sale: Bli'flk 8-trad<. 90 nin lllerrorex T~ at a bcrgain price. Call Usa. 8089. 
Disneytil'ld /1/urals from .va-di Gras for sale. Call 1348. ----,-------Rlr' sale: 1971 red ~til'lQ. Goodrond. 
Call 8678 
NOTICES 

1-\roJrate. fast typing. Nrs. Dnlho 232-0746 
Stratus: Quality A:ld< •n A:lll at reasonable rates. Neil 289-9763 
IBI'v\ Selectric 11 typing. Nalusoipts. 
dissertation. B<per,enc:Ed. 289-5193 



""'"AC«-::.,•~ 'I 
-.-Jding bind. """"""u vucn:u no 
QUeSiia15 asked 277-1568 or 283-7516 
I 
I
Lost: 1 gold Bulova \Mild!, insaiptiOn on back. 1eMrU caiii::><M! 1633. 
1
Lost -gold mYI'S Benrus w-istv.atdl in front of Wash. 1875. 
1
I 
Rlund -blad<. untrella at the basketball garre last nile <rron.) call 1185 
I 
Shall v.e dcnre? Walling p.rty, Nwtl1 
1 
6, 7:30 pm li!Rlrtune Ballroom tix 
I 
$1.50 t\\:J rrusic ~f. 
I
I 
PERSONALS 
I 
Shalv.e dcnre? Walling p.rty, /lta'd1 
I 
6, 7:30pm li!Rlrtune Ballroom tix $1.50 t\\:J MJsic dept. 
1
I 
Tacn Viva, I liked ~ bathrobe il1d night QOiolll. 
I 
let's 'visit' ~ain soon. 
G. C. 
1 
An',O'le interested in pa1idpating in the 
1 
Noc:k oon~tion as a delegate or 
I atemate oontact: Mcrv Beth Mrac:ky 7813 All states v.elrorre 
1 
T-Shirts, T-Shirts, T-Shirts. call for dubs & dorm;. !liM!_ _
277 0948 
8m $250.00 per thousa1d stuffing addressing envelopes at horre. Send $1.00 plus self addressed envelope to 
Heskey Associates. aJx 821 FZ Covington, Ky 41012 
Morrissey Loan last day 1o take loans is Mard112. 
Rugby Shirts. Why pay lllll'e?? Get \'I)Ur green & gold, blue & gold or red & blue rugby shirt for $13.00. call !liM! 277-0948. 
Typing 35 rents per pg. Ad<up & deli-v $2.00 Call C81 272-5549. 
Let's go Ao! R:rty 902 N.D. A~. Sat. foo/'ffch 6 ladies \IIIith sunglasses in free. 
FOR R9IT 
Rlr' rent next .,_­
5 bedroom. 2 bathroom furnished hoCalrre, 9-rronth lease, nea-carpus. 1 234-2626. 
2 room; lor rent $40. call 233-1329 

~ • . 0. 
~ A spectal program for those ~ 
0111 ~ 
~ Notre Dame students and thet·r ~ 

Sign up in the Campus Ministry 
~ ~ ~  rt •pa ners preparing  f • ~ ~ or marnage...  
~  ~  
~  

~ ~ 
~ ,... Off• • 103 M • } L•b ~ 

~ tee tn emona 1 rary ~ 
~ 0. 

~ before Spring Break. ~ 
0111 ~ ~ ~ 
~.............._...._...._...._..._..._...._...._...._...._...._..._..._..._..._...._..._'-'-'-''.'~ 
ATTENTION: COLLEGE GRADUATES! 
ib 
A NEW 
SD


CAREER OPPORTUNITY 
Become A "'De ve/opment Speciolist" 
The Development Specialist Program is offered by the University of San Diego in cooperation with The National Center for Development Training. 
If you are ... a person who identifies well with others and relates well to diverse situations, oriented to social and educational values, a good organizer and coord-inator, one who has the ability to articulate and be communicative, creative and imaginative 
There awaits you a career In development training offering you , , , 
an opportunity to use your diverse talents and knowledge in a prates· sional capacity, 
an opportunity to make a contribution to your community as you work with top civic, cultural and industrial lead~Hs 
an opportunity to achieve personal advancement in a growing field 
an opportunity to plan great ideas and concepts and to see them become a reality. 
Specialize through •• , a curriculum which can be ind-ividually tailored so that students can concentrate on the one or two areas of develop· ment that interests them most: 
.... Community Service Campaigns .... Hospitals and Health Care Financing . ... Educational Development .... Political Fund Raising .... Ethnic and Religious Support Programs .... Gift Development for Cultural Organizations 

For a free brochure with information for you about new career oppor· !unities in a growing profession please send the attached to: 
UNIVERSITY OF SAN DIEGO Box 56, Founders Hall I DEVELOPMENT SPECIALIST Alcala Park I PROGRAM San Diego, CA 92110 
Name Phone 
Address. 


4'5'6 bedroom houses CDfllJielefy fum. 
ished extrerrely nice real dose to 
carrpus. Sept. 1976 9 rronth lease. 
233·2613 or 232-7263 
Sumrer houses il1d room3for rent · real dose to carrpus. Furnished ridirulously reasonably 233-2613 or 232-7263 
Furnished houses, twJ to 5el.e1 bedroom Available for Sept. or June. Call 234-9364 
R.Jmished 4 bedroomhorre N.D. a-ea 350 per rro.& utilities. 616-445-3543 8 an 5 Pm 
LDST & FOUND 

Lost-last lfoEek on N. ~ glasses in red& navy case. Call Baine 7439 
Lost · a N.D. '77 dass ring Th~n. nite l:let¥.een l:lenga !buts il1d senior bir. If found callloor 272-3816 
Lost 2 St. f\la'y's sdlool rings. If found 
call 4394  
Keys Lost:  vidnity of Ubray bir.  call  
289-9790  
·  .  




~-----~-------------------------------------' 
-
l 
1 
~ 
l I 
j 
I 
1 
j 
1 
--------~­
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~-­
8 

the observer Wednesday, March 3, 1976 
ND icers looking for home ice edge
by Paul Hess 
Tuesday afternoon in upstate Indiana was, in a word, miserable. Typically South Bend, to put it another way. With the temperature hovering about forty degrees and a dreary mist suspending itself above the Notre Dame campus, it was the kind of day that made one think at least twice before getting out of bed. Beneath the south dome of the ACC all was quiet, as Digger Phelps' roundball crew had been given a rare reprieve following a trying weekend. 
Over in the north end, however, it was business as usual as the Fighting Irish hockey squad prepared for yet another weekend. 
Coach Lefty Smith's talented young team is undoubtedly very tired of the word "crucial" by now. But such is the nature of the WCHA race this year. In a season-long scramble reminiscent of the American League in 1967, or the National in '64, no one team of group of teams has established itself as elite among the rest. With two games remaining for each team, for example, not one of the league's ten schools has been eliminated from the playoff picture. And the seemingly endless possible combinations of teams, foes, and sites are enough to befuddle even the most adept student of Math 104. 
Notre Dame's position is particularly confusing. With a two-game series at Wisconsin beginning Saturday, the Irish are currently tied for fourth place with Michigan, three points behind no. 3 Minnesota. Fourth place is the spot that Lefty's troops have coveted all season long, as the top four finishers in the WCHA standings get the
-
all-important home ice advantage for the playoffs opening round. Considering that Wisconsin is in last place, "playing mostly for pride" as Lefty puts it, and that God--namely, a Spartan sweep of their home and home no hockey player ever tried to avoid a fight more than Alex Michigan's final opponent, Michigan State, is in second, encounters with Michigan (admittedly possible, but "we did), and each must watch the opener of the series from Notre Dame's chances appear pretty good. can't count on it," says Lefty)--can give Notre Dame the the stands. "Losing Pirus and Nugent isn't going to help 
But due to the fact that the Wolverines totaled more home ice advantage in the event of a split. Two victories, us any," Lefty confides. "Still, our squad has fought goals than the Irish in their four meetings this year, a tie in or at least a win and a tie, are in order if the visitors from against adversity all year long," he adds. "I think we are the final standings with the Wolves would do the Irish no du Lac are to open the playoffs at home, and failure to do ready for the challenge." good. Of course, third place is not out of the question, so has traditionally been the WCHA's answer to hari-kari. Following Sunday's game, the Irish will return home to either--two Notre Dame wins coupled with a pair of North The task is a formidable one for a number of reasons. regroup, then begin practice Monday for the first round of Dakota triumphs over Minnesota "would be ideal," says First of all, the Irish are playing on the road, and a sweep the playoffs, which begins Wednesday. As to whom Lefty. In that case (assuming that Michigan doesn't on foreign ice has been somewhat of an anomaly in the they'll play and where, well ... your guess is as good as any. sweep), Lefty's squad would be at home against Colorado league this season. Moreover, they're playing at The opening series are two-game affairs whose winner is College, "the most advantageous situation," as Lefty sees Madison, the closest thing in college hockey to UCLA's determined by the most total goals. In essence, it's a it. "We're just hoping North Dakota plays some inspired Pauley Pavilion. Lastly, and perhaps most important of one hundred and twenty minute game, with the second hockey this weekend," the amiable Irish coach candidly all, they'll be playing the first game of the series Saturday "half" played on Thursday night. The secund round of declares. night without the services of their top two right wings, playoffs is slated for the following Saturday and Sunday, 
But North Dakota's not the only team that Lefty's Alex Pirus and Kevin Nugent. and the two teams left advance to Denver and the NCAA 
counting on to play ''some inspired hockey this weekend,'' Pirus and Nugent were unfortunately infused with the Championships. "That's six games in nine days for us," because "everything else is academic," as the saying spirit of the Bengal Bouts last Saturday against Duluth Lefty concludes, leaving little doubt that he wouldn't mind goes, unless the Irish win two at Wisconsin. Only an act of (though it must be said in defense of "Pie" that probably playing a couple more afterwards. 


The Irish Eye 

~ 
During the last week of March, Notre Dame will be competing for the national championship in Philadelphia. This isn't optimistic speculation about the basketball team, it is the truth about the fencing team.
I
' Yes, while Notre Dame sports fans spend hours puzzling over where the 
I 
basketball and hockey teams will go in their respective tournaments, and
I 
who they will have to play, few know that the fencing team is as good as r there. Presently, the Irish hold a 21-0 record. They have compiled a string of 39 consecutive victories, an all-time Notre Dame record. There is no
i 
~ official poll for college fencing teams, but unofficially, Notre Dame is number one. Coach Mike DeCicco has already notified the officials that
I 
ND will be represented at the tournament, scheduled for March 26th and
I 
27th at Pennsylvania University. Indeed, 1975-76 seems to be the peak of what has been a gradual rise in
t 
the Notre Dame fencing program. The Irish have improved yearly, 
! I I 
finishing third in the nation last season. Coach DeCicco feels that part of the reason is that young fencers now realize that Notre Dame does devote itself to fencers, that the sport does exist here. Thus the school is acquiring better athletes. 
l.Indiana 57 

25-0 1,194
2.Marquette 2 

23-1 1,060
3.Rutgers 1 

25-0 876 
4.N. Carolina 

24-2 864
S.Nevada-LV 

25-1 725
6.Aiabama 

20-3 561
7.UCLA 

22-4 543 
8.Notre Dame 

21-5 459
9.Maryland 

21-5 416 
10. Washington 

22-4 292
11.Michigan 

19-5 282 
12.Tennessee 

19-S 232 
13.Cincinnati 

21-4 180 
14.W. Michigan 

22-1 110 
1S.Missouri 

22-4 85 
16.St. John's 

21-4 56 
17.N.C. St. 

19-7 35
l8.Florida St. 

20-4 30
l9.Texas A&M 

21-S 23
20.Centenary 

22-5 22 
Irish's Golie in NCAA tourney 
Sailing team opens season 
The Notre Dame Sailing Team Osh Kosh, Michigan State, Wis­opens its Spring Semester of racing consin, Marquette, Purdue, Toledo this weekend on St. Joseph's Lake Lakeland, and Indiana. with the Notre Dame Icebreaker Those members of the Notre Regatta. This is a special novice Dame community interested in regatta open to first year collegiate spectating or being introduced to sailors. This is the only regatta of the club and its members are this type in the Midwest and serves invited to come to St. Joseph's as an excellent introduction to Lake this weekend. The racing will competitive sailing. start at approximately 9:30 on 
This year· s regatta looks very Saturday and Sunday. promising with 12 schools invited. Sailing lessons are available The schools invited are Illinois, most every afternoon at St. los­Ohio State, Iowa, Grand Valley, eph's lake for anyone interested. 


"I like to think we've always had a successful program," explains ic captured the NCAA Regional DeCicco. ''The national championship has always been our ambition. But Championship last Saturday in the ever since 1970, when we hosted the NCAAs, young men have looked to 
NCAA Qualifier held at Cleveland 
197 6 

r us as a place to go to school and get a viable fencing program. When we State. The unbeaten heavyweight ~ ~ had the Junior Fencing Championships in 1971, all the graded fencers ran his record to 15-0-1 as he attended. A lot of them never knew fencing had a good program here. captured the unlimited division
t 
Since then we've been getting quality athletes." 
with three decisions. Golic, who ~ ~ 
DeCicco, who has been the fencing coach since 1960, feels the draw of hails from the Cleveland area, will~ Notre dame as a school has been important too. "Other schools can offer be the only Irish wrestler to travel v t f h • a <;tee per fencing tradition," he says, "but not many can offer so 
to ~he N_CAA ch~mpionships at the 0 e 0 r your c OICe 
well-rounded an experience." He also credits his assistant coaches, Tim Taylor and Ed DeVivo. Taylor has been assistant now for three years, and 12 and 13. This will mark the sixth
Umverslty of Artzona on March 11. ~ of Senior Fellow ~ 
DeVivo. the captain of last year's national championship team at NYU and time in the past seven years that now a law student, is in his first year as assistant. "There's no magic the only Irish representative at the formula." asserts DeCicco, "the credit has to go to these coaches, and to 
Nationals will be in the heavy-~ ~ the fencers themselves." 
weight division. 

'ohn McKay

But fencing has a problem. People don't exactly beat down the doors of Golic will get a good warmup for J I Bob Keeshan the ACC to watch it. It boasts no Errol Flynns, and they don't jump off that event when he travels to Ft. balconies and over stairway banisters. Fencing simply isn't a spectator Lauderdale, Fla., Friday as a ~ G ~ 
... 
sport. Can it be? representative of the u.s. team eraldo Rivera 
"To make fencing a spectator sport requires education," insists wrestling the Russian Nationals. DeCicco. "You have to start with a program of education and exhibition, The Russians have been in action in R k Bl • to enlighten people. People can't watch a sport with enthusiasm unless the U.S. for the last week and a ~ OC y elr ~ they know what it's all about, how it's scored, etc. It does have half. excitement and drama if you understand how it works. Pat McKillen, who was the UUn( s 'Tlh 
exception to the rule last year, .l.li er • .l, ompson
"Also," he continues, "I think you have to offer a big name. It's good to have an excellent fencer on your team, people like to watch excellence. having qualified for the Nationals ~ t rt• • h ~ at t42. was eliminated in the 
S a Ing ton1g t at

We have to develop a kind of superstar quality so peopie will take the time 
semifinals by the eventual champ-
to come out and watch it.'' Whether that is feasible in the near future is unclear. Next weekend ion. McKillen then dropped his s • B 9 } 30 Notre Dame hosts one of the top fencing tournaments of the year, the quarterfinal consolation bout to be ~ enior ar -: ~ 
eliminated from the tournament.
Great Lakes Tournament. Unfortunately, most of the students will be gone on break then. Even the best fencing seems doomed to anonymity. Having won twice on Friday, the also Thursday in the dining halls 
2-2 showing at Cleveland State . it?What if Notre Uame had a national champion, and nobody knew about ~~~~~.out McKillen's season at' .b.. an~.. at t,!!e H!!ddl~.. I0:~0-2,.:,.30 ,.J 
~------------~------------~­







