
Tom Soma discusses proposal for reinstatement of George Brown's 
Student Body Congress
supports disposal service 
been that the morning garbage dry problem. Soma reported on 
Staff Reporter was never collected until evening. another proposal which the Student 
Soma said, "Mr. Price has Government had not completely 
always said he will listen to the worked out. 
by Hob. Varettoni 
In its first major action, the new students, now is his chance." He The proposal offers two solutions Student Body Congress last night added, "We are confronting Price to improve the laundry condition.
unanimously requested the rein­as an administrator, not as a The first suggests that laundrystatement of George Brown's dis­person. His concern for needs machines should be installed inposal service to the Notre Dame cannot be questioned." three of four centrallv locateddining halls. 
The Congress has met only once men's dorms. The second, which The. Congress' proposal repre­before, last April. Ken Girouard, Soma said would be ''more feasi· 
sents the combined feeling of all Student Government press secret­ble," suggests that new machine~ the major student government ary ca!!ed that meeting a "social be installed iu one location, apartorganizations. Tom Soma, special 
event. from the dorms. 
projects coordinator for Student Last night, more than 60 student Soma said LaFortune mav be till' Government, presented the pro­leaders met in the basement of best place for a central hundn posal this morning to Edmund LaFortune. The Congress included location. He added that the prolih
Price, Notre Dame director of food members from the Student Gov­from this project could supplementservices. 
ernment, Student Union, HPC. the Universitv laundrv !>enice. 
One part of the proposal outlined SLC, Judicial Board, class officers "This pro1iosal wo-n't endanger a compromise solution to farmer and Academic Council. They lis­anyone's job... said Soma. in Brown ·s situation. It should at least tened to reports on all the student reference to the people who m>\\ be possible, read the proposal. for organizations. Girouard scheduled work at the Universitv·s laundn· Brown to collect scraps for his pigs this year's meeting two weeks ago, plant. "AdJiuonal laundry mad1­after the evening meals. Student before the controversy with Price. ines are a necessitv not a frill. .. he Body President Mike Gassman said Other highlights of the meeting added. · one of Price's main objections has included a discussion of the Jaun-(continued on page 9) 


server 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's Thursday September 30,1976
Vol. XI, Number 22­
Free University offers practical mini-courses 
by Chris Datzman Course description booklets will be 
Staff Reporter distributed one week before the registration date. Class times and location on campus for the first 
How would you like to take a class will be included, but the course in TV repair from Student students and instructor may decide Body President Mike Gassman? Or their own schedule for subsequent "Decision Making" from Dr. meetings. Kathleen Rice, St. Mary's Dean of 
Free University Co-ChairpersonStudents? These course are possi· 
Cathy Coyne commented, "Byble with the "Free University" scheduling our registration a weeksponsored by Notre Dame and St. 
·after the University's we hope thatMary's Student Governments. 
students will know their class loads Beginning next semester any and be able to fit in the mini-cours·
student . faculty member, staff es. the beginning of
At themember or spouse can participate semester a lot of people have extra
in the free mini-courses. The time and will be able to partici·classes carry no official credits or 
pate."

grades but are geared towards 
personal and practical value. Free University was originated in 1968 by Rick Libowitz. but was discontinued in 1973. In the wake 
Any subject acceptable of student radicalism, courses then tended to be more "left-wing" in nature. According to Moran, this
·'The reason for classes of this year's courses will be more "pract·nature is to provide a place where ical" and geared toward every day students can find material of life.
interest and/or depth impossible to attain through the route of require­ments to a degree," said Special Student Union Projects Commissioner Charlie Moran. "Any subject is considered acceptable and will be offered if 
Budget increase allows innovations
someone wants to teach it and there are students wishing to take 
by Mary Ann Layden The major change in this year's ing revenues and expenses for include "Star Trek." tentativelyit ... 
Staff Reporter budget is the addition of a new future use as well as the urgency of scheduled for February 18.
Moran stressed the need for 
operation, the Special Projects accounting for daily expenditures. ''Grease," a SO's rock musical, andvolunteers to teach the courses in Commission, which has been allot· "This year we're planning to "Jesus Christ Superstar."
their own fields of interest. The 
The Student Union has allocated ted $4763. keep a tighter control on the The Social Commission plans toinstructor may decide the course the $51,000 that it recently received Compared to last year's $12,214 budget," she explained. "With our use its mone\· this vear for newcontent , format, length and class to its commissions to sponsor many allocation, the Social Commission system of recording expenses activities, incl~ding disco dances in
size. Possible topics include, student activities this year. This budget was increased to $14,536. daily, we can tell exactly where a LaFortune one weekend in Decem­"How to File Income Tax Re· 
turns," "The Art of Bartending", amount is an increase over the The Academic Commission budget particular event stands, where a ber. "Cooking for Modern Ethnics" and $50,000 received !ast year and will was reduced from $19,650 last year particular commission stands, as One of the bigest events will be '•Speedreading.'' be used to finance innovations as to $17,400 this year as was the well as where the union as a whole horr~ecoming. Nov. 20. The Social 
well as sponsor traditional events. Cultural Arts budget, which was stands.'' Commission plans to sell a package 
Volunteers needed The Student Government Com· about $19,000 last year and is The newly created Special Pro­with a pair of tickets for the Miami mittee allocated $87,300 to the $18,595 this year. jects Commission will co-sponsor game, the dance at Stepan Center. campus clubs and organizations Student Union director Ken Ricci with the Cleveland Club a Cleve· and the concert. They also planned
''We need volunteers. The Sunday, allotting the biggest commented, ''The money we re­land Navy Trip Oct. 30 and 3L This a musical. "Jacque Brei is Alive success of the program hinges on amount to the Student Union, the ceived this year will facilitate not includes a bus trip, ·hotel· rooms, and Well and Living in Paris," inthe number of instructors we get," largest campus association. only the operations that we've had game tickets and a party at the the Nazz for one perform..tnce onMoran continued. "A course like The proposed 1976-77 Student in the past, but will provide an hotel Saturday night. The first of the nights of Oct. 29 and 30 and'Beginning Auto MechaniCs' will Union budget distributes the opportunity for increasing activi· two fireworks displays was also put Nov. Sand 6.
probably be very popular, especial· 
$51,000 to the academic, cultural ties." on earlier this year by the commis­Social Commissioner Kevin Sad­ly with the women, but we still arts, social and special projects Marianne Morgan, comptroller sion. $502 has been allotted for the ler places emphasis on uniqueneed a teacher.'' 
Any prospective instructor must commissions as well as the Campus of the Student Union, and Bob Free University next semester. ideas and participation from the register before Oct.29 by calling Press and union administration. 0'Hare, assistant comptroller, Special Projects Commissioner students. The many activities avail· the Student Government office at The two money-making operations, work with the comptrollers of each Charlie Moran also hopes to bring able include bus trips to concerts, 7757. the concert and services commis­commission to insure better man­theater and broadway entertain­special home game parties, campus 
Registration for enrollment in sions, are expected to raise $2000 agement of the budget. Morgan ment to the Notre Dame area. dances. off-campus events and the the courses w':J be Nov. 18 and 19. and $5500, respectively. stressed the importance of record· Proposed shows for next semester 
(continued on page 4) 

......... 



the observer Thursday, September 30, 1976
2 
---News Briefs--........ 
l============lntemational British pound 
LONDON -Like a man trying to cover his debts with a second mortgage, the British government announced yesterday it would seck $3.9 billion in credits from the International Monetary Fund to halt the collapse of the pound sterling. The news sent the value ol the pound up by nearly three cents to close at $1.6650. The once-mightv currency, worth $2,40 only 18 months ago, had closed at a recorc1-low of $1.6360 on Tuesday after faling 4112cents. 
:=::::::==================================National 

Pilling all patties 
WASHINGTON -The Agriculture Department urged consumers yesterday to return to the supermarket any 21-ounce cans they might have of Swift and Company's "Ham-In-The-Round" patties. Swift had been voluntarily reca11ing the product f9r at least a month but it decided to make a public statement because it has discovered further lots that have been contaminated by food-spoilage bacteria. 
) 
Debates need funds 
WASHINGTON -Despite a $14,000 newspaper advertising campaign. the League of Women Voters Education Fund has raised only about $53,000 of the $250 ..000 it will spend to sponsor the fc;mr presidential and vice-presidential deb.ates. Pe~gy La'?pl, executive director of the fund, expressed surpnse and d1sappomtment at the low figure. 

!Police protest 
NEW YORK -New York's police officials were told by an angry commissioner yesterday to get protesting officers back in lin~ or start looking for work elsewhere. It was the latest development m a growing protest by many of the city's 18,000 uni~ormed poli.ceme1_1. who are fighting in court and wit~ pressure t~ctics to obtam a .six percent pay hike and to stop the c1ty from addmg 10 more workmg days each year. 
....,__On Campus Today_. 
8 am 
4 pm 
4 pm 

6:30pm 
7 PIJl 

7 30 pm 
8 pm 

--seminar, yearbook seminar conducted by pat Iinde­man, carroll hall. 
--colloquium, "on improving learning through strategy transfer" by john cavanaugh and JOhn borkowsk1, 
n. d., sponsored by psychology dept, room 119 haggar hall. 
--seminar ''the norrish-type II photo reaction and the chemistry of the intermedial diradicals" by dr. juan c. scaiano, n.d., sponsored by radiation laboratory, 
conference room, radiation research building. 
--meeting, nd/smc young democrats, room 1-c, Iafortune center. 
--meeting, philosophy honors society, paper on "science and freedom" by prof. gary gutting, library faculty lounge. 
--discussion, by douglas kinsey, art department, on german t>xpressionist drawing in d. thomas bergen collection, the second in a series, .art gallery. 
--lecture, "revolution in southern africa: from rhode~ia to zimbabwe" by prof. edison zvob~o, pubil~1ty secretary for zimbabwe african nat1?nal un1on, 
sponsored by african and black stud1es, hbrary aud. 

Dinner exchange proposed 
The Food Service Advisory Council met yesterda:v with E. T. Price, director of Food Services and Food Services personnel in the south dining hall and discussed a proposal for a dinner exchange program. 
The program, which would be an exchange between the north and south dining halls, was given a probable committment by Price. The dinner exchange is tentatively set to begin after October break and will run much the same as the lunch exchange. 
During the meeting, the coun­cil also set up three committees to look into the feasability for new Huddle hours on weekends, work on calorie charts for main entrees in the dining halls and examine possible student surveys on food services. A committee investiga-Services management monthly to provide communication between students and the management and to evaluate the food services. 
The Council's main goals this_. Sexist photographer of the year will be to improve food week: Tony Chifari services and provide Food Services Executive Headline Editor: with an input to problems, compla­Bob "I love you" Mader ints, and possible solutions. Paul Stevenson, where are 
lyou?! We miss you, Santa! ) 
ERRATUM 
Yesterday's article on alumni contributions, quoted Richard Con­klin, director of information ser­vices, as saying, "In determining this percentage, only solicitable alumni are counted, which leaves out unreachable alumni and those who are religion affiliated." The 
The Observer is a member of thP A~sociatea Press All 'reprodudior\
tion food disposa} pas already b~~~ , ,st~telJl.ept shoqlp }}ave read, "un­
formed. reachable alumni and those who 
rights are reserved
The council meets with Food are alumni-religiously affiliated." 




Collections begin at SMC 
by Elleen Lynch Staff Reporter 

The St Mary's chapter of the ND-SMC Hunger Coalition began collecting money in front of the dining hall last week, and will continue the collections throughout the entire year-' 
The money collected is sent overseas through several organiza­tions which the Coalition has 
•·csearched to determine the degree of need and assure proper use of the money. The five major organ­izations are Care, UNICEF, OXFAM, Catholic Relief Services and Church World Services. 
"We stand in front of the dining hall as a gesture of our concern," Helen Gallagher, SMC coordinator, stressed. "We want the students to be awa.re of the food problem and some of the waste. We are eager to an~· .ver questions by students and discuss the problems," she said. 
The Coalition was pleased with the student response in the first week. Plans have now begun to hold another fast day at St. Mary's 
Pantheon club initiated bv non-Bag Brothers 
"Why be a Bag when you can be a God (or Goddess)?" This is the question asked by the founders of the Pantheon, a new non­organization for non-members of the Bag Brothers. "It's not that we have anything against those buf­foonish Bags,." said Hades, god of Death and chief Pantheon recruit­er, "but we want a non organization for the independent divine minds around here." 
The Pantheon is open to all sexes. Members take the names of su)table gods and goddesses such as Aphrodite, Odin and Quetzel­coatl. Membership is restricted to an elite 13 but more may be fitted in "interstitially" according to Hades. 
Applicants for godhood may '>ubmit resumes to the Office of Divi 'e Registry (also known as The QbsErver office). The first bacchan­alia will be held in Valhalla, "when we damn well please." 

ERRATUM 
In a recent story in The Observer about the College Republicans, the number of the bill was 180, not 108. 
r*The Observerl 
Night Editor: Colonel Marti 
Hogan 
Ass't Night Editor: Leigh 
Tonakan, Giacomo D'Aurora 
layout Staff: Steve Odland, 
Barry Tillis, Paula Carroll, 
Karen Zalecki, Betsy Masana 
& Sara McDonald 
Editorial layout: John Calcutt 
Features Layout: Chris Smith 
Sports Layout: Bob Brink 
Typists: Gwen Coleman, Sue 
Shellenburger, Kathy Egbert 
& Stephanie Urilla, with a 
surprise visit from the great 
Morey Blinder 
Early Morning Typist [? ]: 
Terri Harlan 
Day Editor: Mary Mungovan 
Copy Reader: Barbara Breit­
enstein 
l ht> Ob~t>rver "pubi"~-,,·d Monday through I nda~ and "et>~ly during the summt>r se~~ion, except dunng the exam and vacation r.wnod~. The Ob~erver IS published by students of the 'University ci Notre Dame and St Mary's College Subscnptions may be purchased for $20 per year ($10 per semester) from The Obser­ver. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 
and to place a bulletin board in the dining hall for posting information. 
An effort has also been made to possibly incorporate information and study on the Third World concerns into courses. The SMC chapter would like to establish such classes and print a booklet listing them. 

"We have only touched on the problem and. are not completely aware of the situation ourselves,'' Gallagher said, ''but we want to do something about it.'' 
For anyone interested in further activities the next meeting will be on Monday, Oct. 11, in Carroll Hall. 



PLACEMENT BUREAU 
Main Building 
INTERVIEWS SCHEDULED FOR WHK OF OCTUH~ II 
Interviews are for senior~ and ~raduatt> J=:tudf:'nt!'i. !:li~n-up schedules are in Room 213, Main Building. [ntervit·w tirn•·o.: must be signed for in person. Law School ~ign-up~ iln• .tl the Pre-Law Society Bulletin BoArds, 0 1 Shaughne!'s~ \!alt. The sign-up period at the Placem··nt Bureau wf 11 ht• I r..,tt, 8:00am. to 5:00pm., Monday thr· 11gh Thttrsdav. 
OCT. II Avr-Way Store~ ~ All HRA. Rescheduled trnmOt·t .... (IJf•t.·,•. r.,,,; .. nnl·.·t Detroit Bank 0. Trust 
All RBA. !QS Mark~t__!~C~~~-i~ 11 in AL and KA. Indiana Rank and Trust Cnm__panv 
Kt;Ac~------­
Industrial Risk Insurers RiOBli-EG di...CfPii~!-. r. in tht·rn, 1-'h'·"ll' . Te lerlvne Ohio Stf'P 1 R in Met, EE, ME... Travelers lnsuran<·e Com_e.m:-' 
ill-B~---:---­
Union Carbide ~ted.!:....!_~n PhD and Pas tdoc tora tes in I''L~.. UniversitY of Plttsburgh. Gr.u.l. S'('ll•'<" n! I,,. !Ill'"~ B (0-,d"id"i-;;Ctpl im·~------­
~~~to~n-~~e..!_ ~1~d _Tubr-~~omr-:!l~· . R in Acct, Fin. MRA with Ac:.:("! nf • lll hi<Prol 'I centra t ion. 1-\M l n EE, ME, t:h£. ~lt' I , 1·.nn . ~..;, l 
QCT. 12 Celanese Corponllio~ 
Tues. KM in r.hF., ~~: and Ch(>n. lf"!l<lOd Steel Compaf"!1' B in EE, ME, Mf-:10, ChE, Acd. tiM!> Naval Avionic~ Facil itv BMin EE and M~--­
g~o~~ 
H in Mkt. 

U.S. General Accountin_L(~I...!_<:P Cancl' llPd. 
U.S. Inrlustrial ChPmic-.-~1~ C:nm~nv R in ME. RM in -r.hf:-:--·---­
OCT, !2/IJ Rohm and JJaas Companv 
~efi/Wecf.-1i"MDin·-dl1.:~an·dch-;m.­
OCT....!] ~:_r..!:_Y!_e~hizek_!!.n~ _<~~~n....v 
in ~1t·f . .., 

Wed. H in Acct. MRA with Acct hkgrd or l..'lnn•ntr·1tlf'n. National StE>eL Corpor<ltion R in r;J-.: and ME. Norfolk and West('rn Rallwav ~O_!!!P.a_ny RM in AI. and BA. 
Pt•np!I'S r..1S svst€'m. (l{et'1'11il ing trq i'l'Ople" t;•• ~ ·l:'i~ht-TcOke-r.O-:-aOd Nattar;JJ Gas l'ip<"linl' f0.1 K in Acct, Comn. Sci, C'~.• H:. M!-., ChL Rockwell lntt'rn;tt if"nal 
Ri""n-MEa~<fMr~li.-·K~ inn:. comp Sci, l'nvs H1<'~'r•nlitc;) 
I<' 11r t Sa I mnn As~oc L1 te~ ,_~c. KMTrlMJ~--a-nd-Mr·~~BA with K in F:nP,r. 
llniversitv 0 Jllinn~s Grad. School flf _.!!_u~t-~r."~­llf'_rt. ~fAc:.£o~t'~c~.-­Att-int;"rested candiriatPs. 
American rletcher Nation.1l ~·,~
(~~~1' :. _!I• 

!i'ifl Acct, fo'in, ~kt, MfiA. (DPc. !i!.•·ad~ ~-) 
Clairnl Inc. ·R-ifi~.---Mgt, l's ch, So•·. !>~1d~~ Manu~~~~~-~~i~_!~..l..!.c"'I_:!C~l_£>_0_r_!_c ( n. 
H in ME. MRA wl th Mkt or Tr>ch b.1ckp.round Jnhnson Controls, Inc. 
Tht~rs. 

Kffi~EE: c.omPSCi. Mcl>onnf'll Uouglns <~':'e~!_~·~n iiM ln M:;-·ME, ~:1::. U0P Proce~s llivi c·ton 
iiM'In~----­
C•t:r. 14/1~ l>i<'~mnnrl Shamr-lc-k Cc•rp~l·~-t-~m~ . R-Cr\f:ht::(\7,-th) R in .111 ~:ngr. ('hPm, ~inl, Ph~o·stc~.
Thur...!Fri 

MRA with Tech hkgrcl for Tech SnlP!' fllith) . 
1:--1 <:om~JM!•"!!!_e>_~_i-1ininp.. ~Hanu~c_!:._·~ C_n 1 R-in-r.hE anrl ME for R&D, Product Oev, Tech $e1vic('. Prot·ess Engr, MfR. Ocsip.n. St. Paul. HN Pxcent 
rrnces:o: f.ngr which coulcl be n-"ltionwide. Perm. Rt•:'-. vtsn required. (Oct 14) Bin Acct (or Co~l Acct or Interna 1 AurHt tnp,. {(lc t Jl) l rr.H, Marwick, Mi__!_~-~~l.!__O.__~o. . 
u ifi AcCt.~with Ac('t hkgnl or c!'"IIH'C'r.t rat LCm 
Ait· Pr0dw l~ 1-t Ch('mi1.1ls, ln_c_.
net.. -~, 

B;.; ·i~--dlia~ci-MF.:·r.mA-,;i·th Teen hk~rcl rn~tf"r+·rtl. 
Arvin lncluf;tric•"· Inc. 
!\-tO ·Ec nnd·-,\~c··-­
I\•Jrrnugh~_c:~:.£.n ~-~!...!_on A.ll-1111~ end ~\1\A 
~i-~h_!e_l_:i_0_ A~-fl~!::ll_f!C!_ -~~d"l"' ~ ~ _t_hP _I'-=.:'· II in AL anrl M. !)('pl. of _t.h._E_"_~.i(;apil_!l_!.~!"~ f~~_!"~f!n_PJ_~<"_'::d_CP.:_c; ~Iff_~ 
f\{;f~:;-Mr:. ~:r.. For: Pro_;,.ct t-:n~r. ProF,r~m M~t. _KA..l, Te~t & ~:vallllltion. w.... htn~tnn. D.C:. ilTC"il ;~nd VRrlOUC: lou tion~ thrnu'ghout I!.S. C'iti?.E"n~hip rC>("I•IirPd.
1 

I'PC l'lduc;triC':o: 1\-in-A.~;t-:-HE, chf'm. ~~~! in C1\F. T:!xas \.<'Is Transmi"'!' ion Cor_p.~r~~ inn
K-·"fn·ACCt ____ ------­
StAmm•':'.

·f;mplrsvr.r tnfn'rm tinn. Allc•rnnttv~s. '('(•,"1c·hi.nR. 
Action/P(•acP Corps/VISTA. FC'rlera1 s~rvicC'. Room 2l'i. Administrntion kuildi.nR 

• 
Burglary shooting involve student
' 
Thursday, September 30, 1976 the observer_____:._____3
_ 

by Barbara Breitenstein runnmg up and down the street. 
Senior Staff Reporter shooting off a gun'' apparently shot a bullet through his car. a recently imported 1976 'MGB . 
Six days later, on Sept. 15, 
A shooting incident which left a thieves entered O'Connell's house bullet hole in a Notre Dame through a window and took a 23" student's car is one of three color TV belonging to O'Connell, 
incidents of crime this month which and two stereospeakers belongingresult in over $800 in damages for to his housemate Davt> Robinson. two students living off-campus. Several nights later,'' someone 
Jim O'Connell, senior. 621 Napo­siphoned all the gas out of my car,'' leon Blvd., reported to the Observ· O'Connell reported. The loss in er Monday that on Sept. 9 at these thefts was over $600. approximately 4 a.m., "someone All three incidents are apearent­
Stanford-Keenan organizes separate food sale services 
by Mary Ellen Keenan enternainment or some sort of Staff Reporter discussion because of the traffic," Dwyer explained. 
In an arbitration decision made Montgomery, Stanford's hall by Notre Dame Dean of Students president and student counsel, James Roemer at the request of the based his position of maintaining dorms involved, Stanford and Kee­the common operation on the past nan Halls have been ordered to close ties of the two dorms. "We establish physically and financialy share a common cahpel, we share a separate food sales operations ef­common lobby, and 'I see no fective November 1, 1976. Present­reason why we should be redun­ly, Za-Land Food Sales, located in dant with rebuilding another food the basement of Keenan. serves sales system,'' he explained. the residents of the two dorms. (continued on page 4) 
The conflict between the two ly unrelated, according to O'Con­nell. 
No clues 

O'Connell reported both the shooting incident and the burglary to South Bend police, but the stolen property has not been recovered and no arrests have been made in either incident.· 
Detectives investigating the shooting ''talked to some people supposely involved in the shoot­ing," Chief of Detectives Emery Molnar stated, "but they denied having anything to do with it.'' 
"Unless someone in the neigh­borhood gives us some informa­tion" Molnar explained, "there isn't anything we can do. Every­thing that has to be done has been done." 
Neighbors stated they heard three shots, according to O'Con­nell, but the police were only able to recover the one slug that went through the car. However, this slug was too damaged to make possible any identification of the weapon used, Molnar said. 
The bullet went inlo the side and out the front of the car, O'Connell said, resulting in $200 damage. 
"We don't have a major com­plaint about this," O'Connell stat­ed. "It's a problem with the law. They can't charge the guy with the shooting on hearsay .evidence."· 
In the investigation of the bur­glary, detectives were able to lift fingerprints from the frame of the window through which thieves entered the house. These finger­prints are being compared with those of three known offenders. Molnar said, but there has been no follow-upreport yet. 
No markings 

Accordmg to the investigating detectives preliminary report, Mol­nar stated, there were no serial numbers on the stolen TV or speakers. "The problem is that if there is no record of the serial number," Molnar said, "then we can't identify the TV set." 
On the siphoning incident, Mol­nar remarked!. "There's nothing we can do about that. That goes on every night and most people don't even realize that gas has been siphoned out of their car. They just think their car is eating gas," he said. 
"Tell the students living off­campus," Molnar advised "to put their social security or phone number or some identification somewhere hidden on their proper­ty. There's no way to identify it if they don't." 
Molnar explained these number'> are registered on a central comput­er, which is used to trace stolen property. "If the TV is stolen and then shows up somewhere. " Molnar said. "we can match the serial number through our comput­er." 
Darlene Palma, Off-campu~ housing commi~sioner. said the in­cidents have not been reported to her office . but urged off-campus students to report ~uch incidents to her. 
"If we receive several report~ l)f robberies in one area." she said. "we can tell students living in that area about it and we can tell students who arc looking for hou~­es in that area." 
"If no one tells 'us." Palma continued. "there isn't anything we are able to do.·' 
O'Connell and hi~ three house­mates are now taking precaution~ after these incidcnh. The\· arc installing locks and arc imc~tigat­ing putting in an alarm system. 
"I think these incidenh arc just a portrayal of off-campu~ life." 0'­Connell complained. 

dorms centered on residents' com­
plaints over the location of the food 
sales service. its present manage­
ment. and the profit split. 
Dean Roemer's decision was 
announced Tuesday, Sept. 28, one 
day after student councils for 
Stanford and Keenan Halls had 
submitted the matter for arbitra­
tion. It was submitted with prior 
understanding that the arbitrator's 
decision would be final and bind­
ing. 
During the arbitration presenta­
tion Monday, both Keefe Mont­
gomery of Stanford and Erin Dwyer 
of Keenan cited the need for a 
reorganization of the present op­
eration. According to the minutes 
of the presentation. conflicts over 
Za-Land have been manifested in 
numerous formal and informal 
meetings of personnel in both 
halls. 
The arbitrator's decision spec­
ifies that each hall will run its own 
food sales operation. This means 
that Keenan will continue to operat 
e Za-Land in its present location for 
the exclusive benefit of Keenan 
personnel. and that Stanford must 
initiate its own food sales. 
The decision states that the 
present jount system will continue 
through Sunday, Oct. 31. However. 
the profit split between these two 
dorms for the months of September 
and October, estimated at $1200. 
has been set at 70"7o for Stanford 
and 30% for Keenan. This profit 
split is to assist Stanford in 
organizing their new operation. 
The decision furhter states pre­
sent equipment in Za-Land should 
be equaly divided between the two 
halls. However, the two dorms will 
institute a procedure to cover joint 
ordering, joint price control, and 
will encourage residents to buy 
from their own food sales operation 
Keenan carried burden 

The rivalry between the two dorms apparently arose with the appointments over the past three years of Keenan residents as manager. Dwyer stated in the presentation that this year Keenan has "carried the primary burden of organizing. starting Za-Land, and actually managing it. . . (which) includes opening it up, notifying workers, making schedul~s, etc." 
''In addition. Dwyer pointed out, 
Za-Land is located in the basement 
of Keenan Hall, thus creating an · imposition on the residents. 
"This is what we really feel to be 
the issue," Dwyer stated, because 
in our conception of residentiality, 
we feel we should have enough 
common space to organize group 
activities, promote some sort of 
communal life and try to promote a 
healt:ty social atmosphere away 
from the dorm itself.'' 
The problem of continual traffic 
through their community room to 
reach the pizza-food sales was also 
cited as a problem by the Keenan 
representative. "We can't promote 
any type of room to provide 

TOWER OF POWER ! 't Nothin' Stoppin'Us 
ancludang: 

You Ought To Be Havong Fun By Your S•de/lt's So Nice Do1n' Alnght/Can·t Stand To See The 
ENGLAND DAN & JOHN FORO COLEY­
NIGHTS ARE FOREVER ON BIG TREE 
ABA-GREATEST HITSON ATLANTIC 
TOWER OF POWER-AIN'T NOTHIN' 
STOPPIN'US NOW ON COWMBIA 
WAR GREATEST HITS-ON UNITED ARTISTS 
THE BEST OF THE BAND ON CAPITOL 
GEORGE BENSON-BREEZIN' ON WARNER 
BROTHERS 




NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
PRICES GOOD TH~U 10/2/76 
. 'I '! 
;·.\ 
I ' I t
' I 
I 
''" 


-Wp ........ _. __ -­
~---~ 
4 

the observer Thursday, September 30, 1976 

Nixon to claim innocence in book 
NEW YORK [API -Nixon will maintain in his memoirs he was innocent of any wrongdoing in the Watergate scandal and the victim of enemies out to bring him down, the New York Times reported yesterday. 
The Times, quoting knowlegea-

Schorr faces ethics board 
ble publishing sources, in Europe and the United States, said Nixon will depict Watergate as a partisan scandal. 
And though he will express regret he did not question his aides more closely about the Watergate break-in and will admit to an error 
by Jim Adams Associated Press Writer 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The House ethics committee approved a report yesterday concluding that its $150.000 in\'estigation cannot name or even suggest who leaked the secret House intelligence com­mittee report to former CBS news­man Daniel Schorr. 
The report suggests the leak was from someone connected with the disbanded Select House Intelli­gence Committee rather than someone in the Ford administra­tion. but narrows the source no further. a member said. 
It says the version published in · The Village Voice. a New York weekly, in February docs not match either of the two distributed among administration officials and so more likely came from the commit­tee. the member said. 

However, he said, Schorr still could have gotten his copy from someone in the administration who got it from someone connected with the committee. 
Ethics committee members and aides said there was some confus­ion about what the vote was on final approval of the report and said they don't know how soon it will be publicly released. 
Rep. Thomas Foley, D-Wash., said he was the only member at the closed session to vote against approving the report. 
The staff proposed that the report eliminate several such broad categories of people who might have leaked the report, a member said, but the committee decided not to narrow the possibilities that 
way. Chairman John J. Flynt, D-Ga., a~d Rep. Charles E. Bennett, 
Roemer ends dispute 
(continued from page 3) Keenan feel that Roemer made 
a "just decision". They are a little .--------------,
The Stanford proposal made 

arm
disappointed. he mentioned, thatduring the hearing before Roemer Stanford w.ill receive 70% of theprovided that the food sale op­profits through October but theyeration continue in its present consider that worth it to get theirloq.tion. The plans called for a own operation.
commission of six members, three Montgomery. on the other hand,from each hall, to be responsible said that the Stanford residents arefor food sales and the selection of a "very bitter" about the decision,manager. This manager was to but they will abide by it. Hereport directly to Student Affairs in believes Roemer issued a contra­much the same way as the Senior dictory ruling when he split theBar managers do. Profits were to food sales operations yet orderedbe divided between Keenan and the hflliS to negotiate joint priceStanford at 47o/o for each dorm and controls and purchase orders.

the balance of 6% as payment for "I don't know how that is goingthe manager. 

to work out,'' MontgomeryDwyer said that the residents of 
concluded. 
SU plans varied activities throughout the semester 
(continued from page 1) Quickie. ­The Cultural Arts Commission plans to use its $18,595 for their 
annual events such as the Colleg­iate Jazz Festival, Cinema 77, the Midwest Blues Festival, the Sopho­

more Literary Festival and the Isis Gallery. Expenditures for these functions are basically the same as last year. The same is true with the Academic Commission, which will spend its allocation., on bringing speakers to Notre Dame. 
The Services Commission makes its own money by sponsoring movies in the engineering auditor­ium and usually breaks even in such services as summer storage, on-campus mail delivery, the off­campus newsletter and refrigerator rental, according to Morgan. 
The Concert Commission. inde­pendently sponsors four concerts per semester. Jim Speier, Social Commission, has made concert plans for Bruce Springsteen on Oct. 9 and hopes to have concerts for the Alabama and Miami football week­ends. 
Next week the Unio'n administra­tion will distribute a booklet con­taining information and opportuni­ties available to students from the Student Union. 


FAT WALLY'S 
PRESENTS 
"OKTOBERFEST" HAPPY HOUR $2.00 ALL BEER YOU CAN DRINK 
Fri., Oct. 1, 4-6 p.m. 


DANCE CONTEST $25.00 PRIZE 
BROUGhT TO YOU BY SMITTY 
in judgement, he will deny person­al responsibility, the Times said. 
Nixon will contend he resigned as president to prevent six months of national decisiveness that would have accompanied an impeachment trial, the Times said. 
The newspaper said its sources 
D-Fia., have said they believe the investigation made clear who leaked the report but that they 
can't  name  him  or  her  because  
there is no proof.  
Bennett  repeated  Wednesday  

that "1 believe personally that I know who did it" but he said the report does not indicate who that person is. 
Another member. Rep. James Quillen, R-Tenn., said he did not know who leaked the report and no one to his knowledge has been named as the probable leaker even in closed committee sessions. 
Bennett, who was acting chair­man because Flynt is recovering from illness, said the report makes recommendations on preventing leaks of secret information. He refus.~d>to elaborate. 
Schorr acknowledge he arranged publication of the report by The Village voice after the House voted to keep it secret but refused to tell the committee two weeks ago who leaked it to him. He resigned from CBS on Tuesday. 
saw 164 pages of manuscript' 
dealing with Watergate anu t•uxo­
n's last twoyears in office. 

Executives of Warner Bros. whi­
ch owns world rights to the Nixon 
memoirs, have been conducting an 
international sales campaign, the 
Times said, notably at the recent 
Frankfurt Book Fair in Germany. 
At Frankfurt, potential publishers 
of foreign language editions were 
shown a secret 13-page topic 
outline, the Times said, but were­
n't allowed to take notes. 

One copy of the secret outline got 
away, the Times said, and it said 
that Nixon will discuss how he 
learned of the Watergate break-in, 
why he had a tape recording 
system installed in the White 
House and why he decided not to 
destroy damaging recordings. 

"ibe outline also indicates Nixon 
f 

will assess his top aides, including 
H.R. Handeman, John D. Ehrlich­mann, Charles Colson and John Dean, the Times said. 
Details of Warner's contract with Nixon never have been disclosed, although the Times mentions a range of $500,000 to $4 million and quotes William Sarnoff, Warner's chairman, as saying, "The real figure may be somewhere in betw­een." 
The newspaper.cited courses as putting the figure at $2 million plus up to $300,000 in expenses. 
The newspaper quotes Franklin Gannon, identified as director of Nixon's research staff at San Clemente, Calif., as saying the former president has set Jan. 9, his 64th birthday, as his target for finishing the memoirs. 
-
a 

Barber & Hair 
Style Shop Open six days a week 
Sat 8 to 3:00 1437 N. Ironwood South Bend 
0


Appointment on.ly 277-0615 ., S Close to Campus . 

SUNSHINE PRO~OTIONS & BILLY SPARKS PRESENT: 
-





EARTH WIND&FffiE 

and Special guest THE EMOTIONS 
Friday Oct. 15 8:00 PM Notre Dame ACC Tickets $6.50 Main floor and all padded seats 
5.50 Bleachers 
On Sale now at: ACC Box office, Robertson's, St. Joseph Bank and Brances, First Bank (Main Branch only), The Elkhart Truth, Just For The Record (100 Center), Suspended Card (Elkhart), The Record Joint (Niles), Boogie Records (Mishawaka;. 

and Notre Dame Student Union 
Not Merely a Graduate 

Level Engineering Program 
The Navy Nuclear R>wer Program is a total systems approach to proble!l' solving. Admiral H. G. Rickover implemented this program to tram intelligent men to address complex _problems through knowle~g-:-and understanding rather than rote compliance to set procedures. Th1s 1s the most selective and highest paying Engineering specialty in the Na~. In addition to full pay and benefits, it includes a $1,500 bonus for c:omplet1on of Nuclear Power School and a $20,000 four year continuation bonus.
, 

The Navy needs some very special Notre Dame Graduates who aren't afraid to find out how good they are•• 


NAVY ON CAMPUS 
OCTOBER 6-8 

MAKE APPOINTMENTS WITH PLACEMENT OFFICE 


the Engineering Auditorium. 
Students whose last names begin with A to L will meet at 6:30 and those whose last names begin with M to Z will meet at 8 p.m. to discuss roommate and car rental procedures. A more complete itinerary for the trip will also be presented. 
Sign-up for the waiting list, now open to Juniors as well as Seniors. will be Thursday. September 30, I 
p.m. to 3 p.m. in the Lafortune ballroom. Seniors will be consider­ed for openings first. 
$2.50 for a T-shirt will also be collected at that time. 
Anyone not paying the balance by Friday, Oct. 8, will be removed from the list, and lose the $50 deposit. 
The Senior Trip committee is expecting five percent of the stud­ents signed up to "drop-out," leaving approximately 30 vacanci­es. Students on the waiting list will till these vacancies and will be contacted for the remaining $196. Deposits will be returned to those left on the list. 
Thursday, September 30, 1976 
the observer 
5 

Angers impresses students 
by Kate Flynn 
Staff Reporter 
"Never go to France unless you 
know the lingo, 
If you do like me, You'll repent, 
by jingo-" 

Thomas Hood (1798-1845) 
Angers Students who spent a full academic year in a provincial city that boats one of the purest French accents in France, would give the same ag·e-old advise to any candi­date for the Angers program. 
That the French take patriotic and also chauvinistic pride in their lyrical tongue is common know­ledge. Last year's Angers students discovered that familiarity with French culture and people is attain­ed only through luck with the lingo. 
To "parle en francais" is the easiest way for an American to endear himself to a Frenchman. He, better than any textbook or travelogue, can narrate and per­sonally show the French style of cuisine, politics. custom and heri­tage. 
Dr. James Ward, director of the Angers program for the last two years, stresses that a good know­ledge of French is indispensable. "If there is any key to a Notre Dame student's success in Angers, it is his mastery of the French language," he remarked. 
Through the Angers program or SUNDEF (Stage Universite' Notre Dame en France), Notre Dame and St. Mary's students who have completed an intensive French course freshman year are able to live and study in Angers. Most participants have also studied French in high school, but it is not required. 
Angers is located in the Loire Valley at the western extremity of the chateau country, about two and a half hours from Paris by train. The city has museums, libraries, a permanent regional orchestra. national ballet and lyrical theater companies. Concert and lecture series are presented throughout the year. Angers also boasts one of the finest collections of medieval and modern tapestries in the world. 
The program begins with a preliminary session conducted by professors from I'Universite' Catholique de I' Ouest. Studies include written French, conversa­tion. adaptation to the milieu and to French university traditions. 
After five weeks. students are 

NO 
SMC 

separated into private homes for the year. One fourth, or ten of last year's students were ·housed with widows throughout Angers. since one out of every four women in France is a widow. 
Former Angers student Matt Kennelly sees a major benefit of the program stemming from life with the family. He thinks this is the only effective way to learn about the c_ulture, and that must of the year's experience depends upon interaction with the family. 
Ward pointed out that the French family is more closed to guests than the average American family. Adjustment to this inevi­tably. makes demands on all students. Several students reveal­ed in interviews that it took a while to be accepted by family members. but that after the initial awkward­ness, families were quite hos­pitable. 
(continued on page q) 
I 

Heartbr~ak 
·House 
G. B. Shaw's propheticcomedy. 

Oct. 1, 2, 7, 8, 9 at 8:00p.m.
THEATRE 

All seats $2.50O'LAUGHLIN {$2 Std-Fac-Staff)
AUDITORIUM 
Special Rate 4 P!ays 
Phone: 284-4176 



\ 
Interviewing for Leadership Positions Officer Selection Team On Campus, LaFortune Student Center 
Sept. 28-0ct.1, 9am-4pm. 
" o • \ ' \ \ e_ \ ' • • ' t , \ • • 1 • • • • , , ~ ' ' 
\ ' ' ' \ ' \ ' \ ' " \ " \ \ ' " ' \ \ \ ' \ \ \ \ ' \ \ \ ~ !I ' ~ ' 
' ~ ' '
. 


-----------------------------~ ~~ ----~·----·­
DOONESBURY 

*The Observer 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's 
The Observer IS published by students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of either institution The news is reported as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions and letters are the views of their authors Column space is available to all members of the community, and letters are encouraged to promote' the free expression of varying opinions on campus. 
Bu~iness Manager Tom Fronczak Advertising Manager Mike Miller F:10to Editor Tony Chifari Production Manager Martha L. !=Canning 
Box Q, Notre Dame, Ind. 4b556 Phone•(219)283-8661 (ND] (219)284-5365 [SMC] 
EDITORIAL BOARD 
Thomas O'Neil Editor-in-Ch1ef Dan Sanchez Managing Editor Chris Smith Asst. Managing Ed Gregg Bangs Executive Editor Val Zurblis Executive Editor Pat Hanifin Editorial Editor Bob Mader Exec. News Editor Maureen Flynn Campus Editor Marti Hogan St. Mary's Editor Don Reimer Copy Editr,r Tim O'Reiley Features Editor FrPd Herbst Sports Editor 
---------------------------------~'• 
I CAN'TREMEM8fl<. ANEMNING

Thursday, September 30, 1976 
/JI1EN I 01/JN'TSTlPBY 7HtREUJS 
ANIJ IJS!CN 70 YOtJS/Nf31NG 71/0st 
GR£4TSON65 'rt)(JSIN6IAIHEN >VU~ 
Ft/3L./Nf7 SORRYRJI< YOORSCtF. 
\





Winds of Change 
Diplomats' expressions of "cautious optimism'' and the like about delicate negotiations often mean only, "We want 
to  keep talking,  so  don't  blame  us  if  
things  blow  up."  But  in  the  case  of  
Kissinger's  recent  talks  in  southern  

Africa, that guarded optimism is war­ranted. It looks like Kissinger may have helped avert a race war that would be costly to America as well as to the combatants. 
Ian Smith, the man who has held Rhodesia to its hard-line white-supremist stand, has finally conceded that majority rule will come within two years. The presidents of the five "front-line" black nations have to take a radical stand in public but privately support Kissinger's basic plan. They apparently fear what would happen if the gun-packing real radicals came to power in Rhodesia and South-West Africa (Namibia). Russia has been widely suspected of working behind the scenes to torpedo the talks. They can expect to benefit from the chaos of racial war; so far, their efforts, if any, have failed. The whole deal may still collapse, South Africa will remain white-ruled, but now there is a real chance that war can be avoided. So what? What does it matter to the 
U.S. if there is a race war, or if the Soviet Union establishes a sphere of influence in the region? Post-Vietnam isolationist feelings are widespread but southern Africa is important for America, however distant it may be. It is an area remarkably rich in natural resources and the Ameri­can economy increasingly depends on 
Beanball 
Dear Editor: After reading the column. Good­

(P.O. Box Q) 
bye Northwestern in the September il issue of The Observer.. I've got one suggestion for the author. He should consider changing the name 
imported raw materials. The vital oil route from the Middle East passes by there; we have seen what happens when the flow of oil is cut off. Much American capital is invested in South Africa. Aside from immediate national interest, Amer­ica has a responsibility to its own first principles of liberty, to work for a peaceful expansion of freedom. s e rio usIy, foI k s!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~ 
A peaceful transfer of power to the black majority is unquestionably in the American interest. Under Kissinger's plan the U.S. would become a major 

IRS Divorce 
contributor to a $2 billion fund to guarantee whites against the economic 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiOrt bu c hwaI d 
disruptions of the transfer in order to win their acceptance. However, this is a small WASHINGTON--The couple price compared to the economic, strategic came into the marriage counselor's 
office and sat down nervously.
and moral losses the U.S. would suffer if 
"What seems to be the prob­

it alienates the future black leaders of the 
lem,'' the counselor asked. 
region, giving Russia the chance to pose 
"We want a divorce,'' the wo­as the champion of freedom. man said and then started crying.The "winds of change," of which "It's the only way out," sobbed British Prime Minister Harold MacMillan the man. spoke fifteen years ago, have finally "Now wait a minute. There must be some other solution," the
reached southern Africa. They will inevi­
counselor said. ''Do you love each
tably blow the white minorities from 
other?" 
power. The regimes that replace them 
"Very much," the woman said.

may not be any more democratic than the 
"More than you 'II ever know,"

one-party and military dictatorships that 
the man said. 
run much of black Africa now; but they 
"Then what's the problem?"

will come in any case and it is best that 
"It's our taxes," the man said.
they come wi(,hout war. It is America's "As a married couple we have to responsibility to help see that the winds pay $3,000 more to the IRS than if of change do not have to reach hurricane we were single. We n~ed the force to do their work. Henry Kissinger money so we thought we'd get a 
divorce."
has taken the first steps-however chancy 
and tentative -towards meeting that The marriage counselor said, "It's not that simple. According to
responsibility. 
IRS regulations, just getting a 
--~-------------, 
by Garry Trudeau 
PLACE WON'TSEarl 
Y!3AH, 8055, 7Hii SAME WITHOUT 8eTT/3R LATe YOU, SAMMY. I'V& THAN NMR, ALWAYS TRULY 
YOtJ MIGHT ENJOYED YOUR 5AY. 
ments over money?" 
"The only ones we've had," the husband said, "have been over the taxes we've had to pay. You see, there is a tax table for married people who file separate returns, and single people who file separate returns. If you live with somebody and you're not married you get a tax break. We don't think that's fair. What we are hoping to do is get thi:! divorce and then keep living together as if nothing happened. 
''That's out of the question," the counselor said. "It would prove beyond a shadow of a doubt that your only reason for getting a divorce was to cheat the govern­ment of its rightful revenues. One or the other of you has to move out of the hous~." 
"Suppose after the divorce,'' asked the husband, "she lives upstairs and I live in the basement and we lock the door?" 
"I'd have to get a ruling on that," the counselor replied. "But I doubt if it would work. If you want tax benefits you're going to have to put up with the pain an anguish that goes with a divorce. Otherwise you're going to have to stay married and pay the .piper." 
"How long would we have to stay divorced," the wife asked, "to meet the IRS requirements?" 

"I'm just guessing,, but it would have to be a full year at least. You' can't keep getting married and divorced every 12 months just to save tax money. It would be awfully rough on the children." 
"Then what oo you suggest?" 
"I think you both need couple therapy. If you're determined to do this, you're going to have to do it as painlessly as possible." 
"Will you take us on. as pa­tients?" 
"I can't," the counselor said. "It's not up my line. I'm going to send you to someone who special­izes in this kind of case." 
"Who is that?" the husband 
asked. 
"H & R Block." 

of his column from "High and Inside" to "Beanball" or better yet "Cheap Shots." 
It has to rank as one of the most classless pieces of journalism ever to ap.pear on the pages of The divorce will not be accepted unless you show true intent to dissolve the marriag~. Now if you were to remarry again after the tax period was over, the Internal Revenue Service would consider this a form of tax e·vasion, and you would have to suffer the penalties." 
Observer  or any  other  paper  for  
that matter.  
Bob Bracale  

The woman started crying again. 

"Let's see if we ·can find some legitimate reasons for divorce. Is there another man or woman in the picture?" 
"No," said the husband. "I've never cheated on my wife." 
"I've  never  cheated  on  my  
husband," the wife said.  
"The  IRS  won't  like  that.  I  

assume you're compatible in bed,'' the marriage counselor said. "Very." For the first time, both of them smiled. 
"Has he ever struck you or beat you?" the counselor asked the wife. 
"Never. Whenever we have a fight he sends me roses." "I wouldn't mention that to the tax people." "What about serious disagree­


Letters Policy 
1. 
Letters must be signed, 3. They should be kept as short although upon request the name as possible since we wish to print will be withheld from publication. many different points of view. We Unsigned letters and letters signed reserve the right to edit letters for only with pseudonyms will not be• reasons of length. printed. 4. Letters may be submitted to 

2. 
Letters must be on topics of P.O. Box Q through the mail or general interest and be written may be delivered to The Observer clearly and intelligently. offices on LaFortune's third floor. 


Thursday, September 30, 1976 the observpr 
• 





Foreign Studies: 
What a Way to Go 
As the sun rose over the Alps, some students were preparing to take their weekly allotted bath. Others, having finished their regular breakfast of cheese and jam with hard rolls (semmels), began their trek either to class or the ski slopes. A group of three disembarked at the Vienna train station, following an overnight ride on the Arlberg Express, courtesy of a forged rail pass. 
In Tokyo, Taiwan, western France and Rome, the scenes are repeated, though in different languages and along different cultural lines than in Innsbruck. These students have chosen to forgo football games, dining halls, and the Library (either one). Fr. Burtchaell and drinking laws become less pertinent than the Observers that reach the students a week late. Having entered a Foreign Studies Program brings with it a different set of concerns, an attempt to forge a different life style several thousand miles from home. 
Since the Renaissance, studying in a foreign location has been considered an integral part of the curriculum. Some American universities instituted such prog­rams almost 300 years ago. By placing a student in an entirely new atmosphere, these programs have intended to teach more by experience and cultural enrich­ment than by books, a principle still valid today. 
After long contemplating such action, Notre Dame first went international in 1964 by sending the first contingent of students to Innsbrusk. Austria. An NO professor, who was an Innsbruck native and retained strong ties with his homeland, designed the plan that was ultimately accepted by the administration. Until this year, this city in the middle of "Sound of Music" country remained the most popular of the prog­rams. 
The subsequent programs originated in a way as varied as their nationalities. Prof. Charles Parnell, current director of the Office of Foreign Studies, sought to place a program in France in 1966. He sought a university that was outside Paris and the American tourist rputes, yet offered good cultural opportunities and high standards of spoken language. After examining several sights throughout France, another professor suggested the Angers site, and Parnell found it to meet all the criteria. 
The Mexico City program started in Columbia. at the behest of C.S.C. priests, who wanted contact with South America. Political upheavals followed by martial law during the first year of operation, forced the administration to move to the relative stability of Mexico City. Here, they chose the new facilities ·of the Universidad Anhuac, not only because of its Catholic character and curriculum flexibility, but comparative political tranquillity as com­pared to the larger, state-owned campus. When it was decided that the University should provide an outlet for study in the Far East, all arrangements were handled by mail with the Sophia University, a Jesuit institution in Tokyo. In 1975, the initiative of another professor led to the establish­ment of the program in Taiwan. Similar efforts founded the St. Mary's campus in Rome in 1970. 
While all of these programs come under the direction of the Foreign Studies Office, there arestill more ways to cross the ocean with Notre Dame. The Architecture Dept. offers a year in Rome for all its junior~; law students have the opportunity to sign up for a year of study in London; several U.S. universities banded together to offer courses in Ireland, in which the English Dept. can place a handful of students each semester. At this rate of seemingly rabbit-like proliferation, will the sun ever set on the Notre Dame empire? 
''There are definite problems with more expansion," explained Parnell. "Many universities, especially in Europe,· are increasingly overloaded with students from that country. Many foreign places also want a reciprocity agreement, but find that a private university like Notre Dame costs too much. Most important, perhaps, is the difficulty of finding student housing near school." 
At present, Parnell is exploring the possibility of opening a program in Moscow, though conceding that wading through Soviet red tape is a long process. A program for MBA's might also develop, though this has not yet passed the planning stage. 
The great expansion in the number and size of such programs forced Fr. Lawrence Broestl (a long-time foreign language professor), to create the separate office several years ago. Under no department or college, the Foreign Studies Office reports directly to the Provost's office. Most policy and executive decisions are made by Parnell, in consultation with the program directors and staff. Assistant provost Sr. John Miriam Jones exerts a largely supervisory roll over these affairs. 
Overall, the office controls a budget of about $500,000 to run the programs. A student pays the same fees for tuition, room and board as all other students, but the fee includes transportation from a selected city in the U.S. to the program city as well. (In the good old days, this meant a cruise amidst the spendor and regalia of the S.S. France, for those going to Europe. Today, everybody flies student-ch:trter jets). 
One of the biggest problems for Parnell is planning the budget, which lies at the mercy of the volatile currency -exchange rates. In a normal year. the student fees should cover all the costs of the programs. Should the value of the dollar drop too low (as. it did in '74-'75), the University will cover the costs of all deficits. In better years, there can be enough money to provide some field trips for all the students of a given program. 
"We must budget the programs about a year ahead of time," noted Parnell, "so anticipating the exchange rates involves a lot of guesswork. Also, our major costs come in the area of food and lodging, two areas high affected by inflation. Last year, the dollar went up quite a bit over the previous year, making us look very good. 
Also taking a big part in the budgeting process is the diredor of a particular program. As Prof. Albert Wimmer, Inns­bruck director from '70 to '73, explained, "The biggest part of the director's duties comes with keeping the books, paying the landladies, handling the banking, etc. The struggle for money, especially when the dollar is low, becomes very difficult." 
But the duties of a director go far beyond money. "It's a 24-hour job," continued Wimmer. "He is responsible to the students, the administration, the faculty of the program, and, of course, the parents. He has no secretary, so he must type, be an academic administrator, psychologist, ac­countant, and the most visible representa­tive of Notre Dame and the U.S. In this PR role. he should be able to sell the community on the good of having students. through such things as volunteer social work. It can pay dividends in the long run. 
"Sure, it is a lot of work, with no extra monetary rewards. You have to change houses, move the whole family and get them settled into a new country. But in retrospect, the problems seem very minor. There ;s a satisfaction, in ·being able to handle ai! the situations during a year, and watching and perhaps helping the students grow during the year." 
Parnell added, "I put in more hours while I was director in Angers, but I enjoyed the work immensely." 
Any member of the faculty is eligible .to become a director, and neea not have a native knowledge of the language. A selection committee is composed of the Deans of Arts & Letters and Business, as well as Parnell, Sr. Mary Justine Marr from St. Mary's, and three members of the faculty. No set criteria has yet evolved, but handling students, administrative prob­lembs, communicating with the natives and finances rank as the most important qualifications. Fr. Burtchaell retains final approval over the committee's choices. 


Century Center complex underway 
by Kate SmeJsner 

million Century Center is "a multi­Staff Reporter purpose, people-centered facility Slowly taking shape on. the west that will serve during the. next bank of the St. Joseph River, South decades as a major focal point for Bend's Century Center will pro­the social, educational, recreational bably be complete by Noverber 1, and conference activities of the 1977. total community." The complex According to publicity coordin­includes a convention hall, an art ator Gina Anderson. The $12.5 building, a theatre building, a 
Chemistry dept announces Cohn as Niewland Lecturer 
Dr. Mildred Cohn, a biochemist form the University of Pennsylva­nia School of Medicine, has been named Rev. Julius A. Nieuwland Lecturer 'in Chemistry by the Department of Chemistry at Notre Dame. The Department also has selected four researchers to be Peter C. Reillv Lecturers during the academic vcar. 
Cohn's ·research concerns the role of the metal. for example, manganese. in enzyme function. The professor of biochemistry and hiophy~ics has received numerous honor~. including the Cresson Me­dal of the Franklin Institute and the Distinguished Alumni Award from Hunter College in 1975. She will 

SMC-ND hotline will begin 
bv Alicia Denefe Staff Reporter · 

The Notre Dame-St. Mary's Ho­tJine will begin its services after October break. This program has been re-established and is concer­ned with helping student~ who have problems and no one to talk 
to. Trained students will be availab­
le at 4-4311 on St. Mary's campus from 8 to 12 p.m. Sunday through Thursday, and 8 p.m. to 2 a.m. Friday and Saturday to listen, and, if necessary, refer callers to some­one who can help with a particular problem. 
Training sessions for those inte­rested in volunteering will begin next week. saidMike Donovan head of the ND-SMC Hotline. There will be four training sessions, the first :oncerning the art of listening. Subsequent sessions will deal with 1rug problems. sexual problems 
and referals. for aiding those
I 
students who need professional
~ 
help. 
I 
This program's main theme is ·'students helping students." It is a development of the Share progr­am and should not be confused 


SENIOR TRIP INFORMATION NIGHT 


® 
0 


"We'll try to answer all your questions" 
Sunday, October 3 In The Engineering Aud. 
6:30 p.m. -Trippers whose_ last names begin with A-L 8:00p.m. -M-Z 
discuss enzymatic reactions in 
three lectures Oct. 25-29. 
Reilly Lecturers will include: 
-dr. Jerome A. Berson, professor of chemistry at Yale University, Nov. 15-18. 
-Dr. A.D. Buckingham, profes­sor of chemistry at Cambridge University, Dec. 6-10. 
-Dr. Clinton E. Ballou, professor of biochemistry at the University of California at Berkeley, March 7-11, 
1977. . -Dr. Richard H. Holm,! professor of chemistry at Stanford University April18-22. 1977. All lectures will be delivered in room 123 Nieuwland Science Hall at 4:30pm. · 
with_ the Sou_t~ ~end Hotltne. The Volu_nteers art! needed a_nd servtce was tntttated last year, ~ut anyone mterested should call Mtke was discontinued · due to Jack of . Donovan at 8273. or attend the interest. organizational meeting which will 
Donovan emphasized the hotli-be announced later. · ne is not a counseling service. Participants will be committed to "We are there basically just to attend all training sessions and will listen," he said. But he assured work approximately 2 hours per that "everything will be strictly week once the program starts, said 
confidential.'' Donovan. 
STUDENT UNION PRESENTS: 
Thr,ee Days Of The Condor Fri. & Sat., Oct. 1st &2nd 7:00, 9:15, 11 :30pm 
Engineering Aud. 
Admission 1.00 
museum, and an outside park. John Everitt, executive director of the center, listed activities already scheduled for the two months following the grand opening, in­cluding the Studebaker driver's convention, and State conventions of Kappa Delta Phi, and the Homei Economy Association. 
•'The hall is designed to attract 
moderately-sized  state  and  area  
conventions,''  Everitt  said.  The  
24, 750-square-foot  sturcture  will  

also house 11 separate meeting rooms, a mail room, and space for lockers. The convention center will accomodate 2,000 persons and two kitchens will together be able to serve 2,000 meals in one sitting. 
Further north on the riverbank will stand a three-story art building containing 10,000 square feet of exhibit space, a library, metal-work shops, storage vaults an'd class­rooms for the study of drawing. painting. sculpture, printmaking, and photography. The area of the sturcture allocated to the South Bend School Corporation is to house classrooms and studio facil­ities for courses in ceramics, drama, and music. The South Bend Recreational Department will oc­
cupy 8,000 square feet of the 
building for activities concerning crafts, discussions, games and studies for all ages. 
The theatre building will contain Michiana's first true thrust stage, alrge enough to accomodate a symphone orchestra, in its 600-seat auditorium. Under the same roof, a film projection room will seat 150 and storage rooms will hold cos­tumes, sets, and musical instru­ments. There will also be carpen­ter's shops, dressing rooms for 
actors a large rehearsal hall, and a 
*THIS WEEKEND* 
FREE ADMISSION 



OCTOBER 1·2·3 

a&~N] ~u,IC:.
(G......,. -~·~·~ 

B~E.Il:fOO ~ 100 Center 
~ l:t ~ 700 Lincolnway w. MISH. 
recording studio. 
The last of the four main buildings is a museum called Discovery Hall. It will house the Industrial-Tech­nological Museum and the Stude­baker Car Collection. 

The complex centers around Community Place, a large lobby enclosed by a glass wal 100 feet long and 38 feet high. This wall will provide a paooramic view of the river, Island Park, and the white water rapids. 
.....•••••••••••••••••••••••••~~~~ 



BET'CHA CAN'T!!! 
STAY HOME AND NOT DRINK AFTER THE IRISH DOWN THE SPARTANS. 

VODKA, BOURBON, SCOTCH, GIN, RUM, BLENDS, TEQUILA, WINE, AND LIQUEURS 
LOW,lOW PRICES ON BEER!!! 
FOUR LOCATIONS 
12th St. Uquor Store ·Par1y Shop 
Town & Country  River Park  
Shopping CentP.r  2411 Mishawaka Ave.  
Phone 259·3262  Phone 289·3868  

ALL STORES OPEN NIGHTS 'TIL.L 11 PM 



Action Express 
Q. What are the directions to Scottsdale mall? 
a. 
Take U.S. 31 south. Continue down Main Street to Ireland. Turn left on Ireland and continue east on Ireland to Miami. Turn right. Scottsdale will be on your left. 

Q. 
Are there any places to call to find out what this great South Bend weather will be? 

A. 
You can call the weather report 232·1121. the Weather Bureau 233-6001. or. for time and temperature, call 234-7121. 

Q. 
Where can I get a pizza from off-campus with free delivery? 

A. 
The following places give free delivery to campus: Roma Restaurant 234-3258; Fat wally's 277-0370: and Julio's 232-71}11}. 

Q. 
Where is there a Xerox machine on campus? 

A. 
There is one on the second floor of the library in the lounge area. 


Any Questions? Drop them off at the Ombudsman Office in the LaFortune Student Center or call us at 283-7638. 
Angers provides flexibility 
(continued from page 5) students. 
Dr. Charles Parnell, director of Many of the Angers students feh the Foreign Studies programs, that adjusting to French provincial remarked that it is precisely this life was quite a challenge because 
housing of students with families of the cultural differences. The which provides flexibility to -the French tend to view America as a program. As far·as foreign studies fast-moving wasteful country. Stu­programs go, he claims it is the dents learned soon' enough to Angers program which most easily economize on basics like hot water adjusts to the individualities of th~ and learned that French provincial 
Career semin~rs sponsored~ by placement services 
by Mary Rukavina Staff keporter 

The placement ,.erv ices of St. tyiary's and Notre Dame and the SM_C Busin_ess Club are. 7o-spog­sonng a senes of four busmess a-rid government career information 
seminars. 
Representatives from Xerox, St. Regis Paper Company, General' ' Foods. and government will head­
'line the informal question and 
answer sessions. 
·'These ,career information sem­inars are to · give up 'to date information on careers in the fields of business and government to all interested students," stated Karen O'Neil, director of Career Develop­ment at St. Mary's. 
She added, ''These seminars suppllment the recruiting program. This gives all students, not just seniors. or business majors, an 
. opportunity to meet with employ­ers. ·• · _ The program pays particular attention to the liberal arts student. 
Maureen Tomshack, president of St. Mary's business club statf's. "Many business positions are open to liberal arts majors and they don't even know n, ~uc11 "s sales·.;. 



O'Neil addded, "There are al~o entry level positions that lead to advanced positions in a com pan)(. and niany companies fill _thesf. positions with liberal arts majors. ' 
Representatives from Xerox will open the first seminar session Tuesday Oct. 5, 'at 6:45p.m., in the Lafortune ampitheatre. 
Ford's veto holds 
WASHINGTON AP-Congress failed yesterday to override Ptesi­dent Ford's veto of a bill authoriz­ing $100 million for research to develop automobiles that would pollute less and burn less fuel. 
The House overrode the· veto, but the Senate fell I 0 votes short of the necessary two-thirds majority. 
The vote to override in the House 
.was 293 to 102. 29 more than· two-thirds. The vote in the Senate was 41 to 35. 
Supporters of the bill argued that private industry was not doing enough to develop pollution free 
,energy-efficient automobiles. 
-----~ -----:---~~~-~-~-.----------. 
Thursday, September 30, 1976 
the observer 

New Congress discusses shuttle 
dining exchange 
(continued from page 11 Rick Littlefield. director of the Student Government co-exchange commission, announced the start of a North-South dinner exchange. This will begin on a trial basis after October break. This type of ex­change is regularly done for lunch­es. Littlefield also spoke about the Notre Dame-Saint Mary shuttle bus problem. "I think the schedule we have is sufficient." he said. "we've just got to get the drivers to stick to it.'' He added that Student Government will shortly put up new signs to mark the bus stops. 
J.P. Russell. HPC chairman, pointed out the new Student Body Congress was "not a do-everything body." However, he said, new communication resulted from the Congress. 
Rick Littlefield announced the start of a North-South dinner 
"For example." Russell said. 
exchange last night at the Student Body Congress. ·1 Photo b~ 
"each half president can now 
~aul Clevenger.]

consider the possibilities of the new laundry proposal for his own hall." Overall. Gassman said that the 
Congress was a success. Hea dded, 
·'The more the students work with 
it. the better it will become." The 
STudent Body Congress will meet 
again after October break. 
' 



life is slower paced. That means two hours for lunch, rather than a dining hall line. 
The French are also less youth­oriented than American businesses as far as the social life goes. As Parnell remarked. "Angers is not a swinging town." So students ac­commodated themselves to quiter cafes and '-ecmed to survive a year without Nickie's or Burger King. Infact, students interviewed' were glad th~t Angers is "off the beaten track." 
Students come to Angers to learn the French way of life, but they also 
represent the American wav. Jennifer Collins. a former Angers student. spoke for many of the students in her explanation of her political position as an American in Angers. 
"We had a chance to define our feelings about the U.S .. " she said. "The French are very political people, especially the students. I found myself defending the U.S. in some situations. Being leader of the free world sets you up for a lot of pot shots." 
'lbchnics the Ubrary).  
Everyone welcome  -new  students  
especially!  
- I  •  >  
'  ~.  ..;#"'  '  


. .. -0/:S 


SA-5550
Electro· Voice 


EVS·l68 
twelve inch, three way systerr. 
CLOSE OUT AT. 
$320 
Reg. $480 
SPECIFICATIONS 
58-watts min. RMS per 
channel at 8 ohms, from 
20 to 20,000 Hz, 
with no more than .3 percent total 
harmonic 
distortion


2 FOR $180 
SPECIFICATIONS Response .•• JO to 20,000 Hz NominalReg. $167 ea. 
Impedance .•. & ohms Dimensions•••14" x 13.5" d. 
"WHERE HEARING IS BELIEVINGH 
321_S. MAIN DOWNTOW-N == NEXT TO INDIANA BELL 
.288-1681 OPEN 12:30-6 DAILY 
A very informal gathering of good people, at Bulla Shed, the Campus Ministry Activities Center, the little green house at the comer of Bulla Rd. and Juniper (in the middle of the block, across from Grace Tower and 





Teachers deal with one-room school situations 
LINCOLN* Neb AP-In the days of teacher unions, media centers and early childhood development specialists, the one-room school survives here in a way that teaches teachers as welJ as students. 
The 21 kids in , grades one through eight at the "Rocky Road Ranch" school don't gaze out the window at Nebraska farmfields if they davdream. The school is on the Union ColJcge campus and outside are students rus~ing to class and the sounds of nearby traffic. 
The Seventh-day Adventist col­lege opened the one-room school on its campus to meet its own special needs and the needs of Nebraska. 
College student-teachers pre­tend they are out on the plains in on one of the state's estimated 800 one room school houses or in one of the 1,000 Adventist elementary schools in this country and Canada, where lower grades are usually lumped together under one teacher. 
"Our schools are small because of finances," Charles Felton, Un­ion education department chair­man, said in explaining the pro­gram. "We simply weren't train­ing teachers for this situation." 
1 The college found, too, one-room teachers had to deal with more than 
Cockroaches may cause asthma according to Chicago researcher 
CHICAGO [AP) -Cockroaches may be the unsuspected cause of many cases of .asthma, especially among the urban poor, a Chicago medical researcher says. 
The researcher, Dr. Benn Kang, has found a high percentage of asthmatic patients are allergic to cockroaches · 
Only relatively recently have cockroaches been suspected to be a cuse of asthma and Dr. Kang said many doctors would fail to recognize these insects as a cause. 
The asthmatic patient who lives in a place infested with cockroaches wilJ have repeated attacks of asth­ma, she said. 
In a report in the Journal of Allergy and Clinical Immunology, she suggested after cockroaches die and disintegrate, they become part of the house dust which is inhaled. This, then, is the method by which the insects are thought to cause asthmatic attacks. 
D ·. Kang said in a interview previous studies have shown patie­nts from overcrowded living condi­tions have a much higher frequenco of allergic reactions to cockroach derivatives in skin tests than do those from affluent suburbs. 
She  reported  when,  in  her  
experimental  study,  22  patients  
suffering  from  asthma  inhaled  

cockroach derivatives. 16 of them has asthrn ttir seizures. And 13 of the 16 had delayed as well as immediate attacks. 
Questions haunt campaign 
Questions about President 
Ford's old campaign money and 
golf outings and · about Jimmy 
Carter's foreign travel expenses 
swirled through the presidential 
election chase yesterday. 
In a flurrv of developments that 
broke the ·campaign pattern of 
statistical gunfire on the issues: 
-Democratic nominee Jimmy Car ter said President Ford should go before the news media to discuss reports that the Watergate special prosecutor is investigating what happened to contributions made by .two unions to Ford's past congres­
sional campaigning. 
-Ford's press secretary said 
"helJ. no" it isn't the President's 
lifestyle to let lobbyists pay for his 
vacations and golf games. But he 
promised to release at an unspecifi­
ed date the results of a records 
search aimed at finding out who 
paid when Ford played golf from 
1965-1973. 
-Carter acknowledged foreign 
governments had picked up some 
of the costs of trips he took abroad 
as Georgia governor when he was 
trying . to drum up trade for the 
state. Carter said the trips were 
strictly business, and he distin­
guished them from acceptance of 
free golfing vacations. 
-Two large companies said Ford 
had played each of their courses 
once as the guest of a company 
official between four and eight 
years ago. . 
Carter offered his suggestton of a 
Ford news conference during his 
own first formal news conference in 
almost two weeks as he wound 
up a two-day rest stop at hi£ 
Plains, Ga. horne. 
Carter said the best way for Ford to ciear up the matter about the Watergate special prosecutor is for him to "have a frank discussion with the American people through the news media, which so far he has failed to do.'' 
The former Georgia governor said he did not want to_ be interpreted as having assumed "that there's any substance to the allegations. I have no way to know that." 
Carter said special prosecutor Charles Ruff should make public a full report on the investigation when it is finished, regardless of whether that is before or after the Nov. 2 election. 
Ruff has repeatedly declined comment on the probe, which reportedly centers around whether Ford converted campaign funds to his own · use through a local Republican party organization in 
Michigan  while  he  was  in  the  
House.  
The  separate  matter  of  golf  

games came up recently when William Whyte, a lobbyist for U.S. Steel Corp., said Ford. a longtime personal friend, had taken three golfing trips at company expense in New Jersey and stayed twice in a company owned house near Disney World in Florida while he was a congressman. 
White House Press Secretary Ron Nessen said Tuesday Ford had played on courses owned by three other companies before he became vice president. 
Nessen said yesterday the Pres­ident has ordered his records searched to see what can be learned about golf games he played during his last eight years as a congressman and House Republi­can. 
LAST TIMES TONITE
I . DOUBLE FEATURE INGMAR BERGMAN's "MONTY PYTHON AND THE HOLY GRAIL" II "MAGIC FLUTE" 
PLUS-MEL BROOK S'"TH E PRODUCERS" 

STARTS FRIDAY-BROUGHT BACK ONE TH RlLLING WEEK ONLY!! (PGl 
MWS 
POSITIVELY THE MOST TERRIFYING MOTION PICTURE EVER PRODUCED! 
7DAYSONLY 
WEEKDAYS 6:45-9:15 SAT-SUN 1:45-4:15 6 :45-9:15 WEEKDAYS 7 :00-9:25 SAT-SUN 2 :00-4<30 7:00-9:25 

Dr. Kang said she since has increased her study to include 60 patients, and that the results were the same. 
She is giving patients desensiti­
zation  treatments  to  eliminate  or  
reduce  the  allergic  reaction  to  
cockroaches.  This  treatmen~  is  

similar to ragweed and other desensitization treatments. 
In this treatment the patient is given small doses of the substance he or she is alergic to and the­dosage is increased gradually with the object of making the patient inore resistant to it. 
Cockroaches may be an especi­ally important factor in causing . asthma in winter when patients spend more time in a closed environment and have greater exp­osure to house dust, she said. 
The lifespan of a cockroach is six to nine months, and during this time each female produces 500 to 900 offspring. 
Dr. Kang noted under poor housing conditions it is virtually impossible to eliminate this pest. Even though individual apartments may be clean, the insects continue to Jive in other parts of the building. 
The dust from their disintegrat-. ed bodies is spread through heati-1 ng systems and through air curren-. ts. Dr. Kang said. 
Dr. Kang is in the department of medicine at Mount Sinai Hospit­al 1\ledical Center and a faculty member at Rush Medical School. She is a native of Taegu, Korea, and a graduate of Kyung Buk National University medical schoe! there. 
FAST 

. TYPEWRITER REPAIR 
E=1lk1•1 

2915 Mishawaka Ave. 
slim finances. Times have changed since only a slate and reader were needed to entertain the student who had trudged miles to school. 
"Now, with the competition of television, a teacher has to practi­cally do a headstand to get the attention of the k:ids," said Dr. Virginia Simmons of the college's education department. 

''One of the first things we did was teach the education majors to be scavangers," she said. "We begged from the lumb~r yard, shopped at the Salvation Army and made things ourselves for the school. The average per pupil expenditure in our system after books and necessities is about $2 per student per month.'' 
There was no lack of response when UnionCollege invited parents to enroll their children in the one-room school. Some older students resisted the isolated sit­uation but not for long. 
"The older ones help the young­er ones and the self-concept of the poorer students has improved," Dr. Simmons said. 
"The concept has always been there," she said. "A good teacher makes provisions for different lear­ning levels.'' 







King 
We invite you to try our delicious pizza, hot sandwiches and tasty 
salads. BEER Special Monday nights. Pitchers of Budweiser $1.50 
Michelob $1.75 Tues. nite after 4pm--$1.00 off on all large pizzas. 

North 272-6017 
=r============================================================:====:=:=:=:=:=======:===========:===========:====:=:===:===========================================================================~====::;:;:;:;:;;;;;:;:;:;::==;=;============================ 
N N


I ~~ IV ~l1l Heute ist .der Tag!! l~ 


IN QK~~BI~~~~~T I t ~ 
~ 
~~~~~~~~~ 

DONNERSTAG­Sept. 30 
4:30-6:15 German Dinner & Skits 6:15-7:00 Hall Decorating Contest Judging ~ 9-12 Dance with Sahara Regina North-Upper Lounge 
Admission -$.50 
(Hall decoration winner announced) Beer Garden ($2.00) Regina North-Basement Lounge 
~ 
The White House Inn 
Tonight Pitcher Beer N ite with Bruce Carr 
.2839 No. 51th St., Niles~ Take U.S. 31 to Niles, North on 51, 3 miles 

• • Pizza 



FREITAG­Oct. 1 

4-7 Happy Hour·-Library 
Beer $.25 glass Mixed 2 for 1 
Polka Contest Chugging Contest 
8-10 Movie -Carroll Hall SMC Marx Bros. "Horsefeathers" Admission: FREE 
Sponsored by SMC Social Commission . 
l::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:;::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:::::::::::::::::::;;:;:;:::::::::::::::::::::::;::~::;:::::::::::"-:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:i:;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 
~ 

J II I I I I I ·. ~ 
·,' ' I 
~ 
by Tom Duffey Sports Writer  Morrissey drove deep into 0-C territory. But Off-Campus held on downs and, taking control of the  Holroyd then went to work. 1 he tWO combined on two long r-lSS plays to move the ball to the  
game, drove the length of the field  Howard 20. Andry Schmidt  rr adc  
South Quad interhall football action last night saw Off-Campus, led by Bill Sahm, defeat Morrissey 14-0, Dillon and Howard-St. Ed's  for a final touchdown, a four-yard dive by Greg Zipf. Dillon 6-Howard-St. Ed's 6  an open-field, shirt-tail tackk of Holroyd to save a touchdown. A 37 yard field-goal attempt was wide as time ran out and the game ended in  
battle to a 6-6 deadlock and Sarin  a 6-6 tie.  
shutout Alumni 8-0.  Throughout the first half, Dillon seemed able to move the ball at will  Sorin 8 ­Alumni 0  
Off-Campus 14-Morrissey 0  only to lose it on turnovers deep in  
lnterhall football action continued Sorin gained victories, while Dillon a 6-6 tie. [Photo by Paul ClevengeSailors tacin Wisconsin regatta Oshkosh, Wisconsin was the site of the Notre Dame Sailing Team's third first place victory in three regattas. Six other sectional schools assembled on a windy, chill Saturday only to witness the Irish win by a convincing 13 points. Team Captain Paul Makielski and freshman Jay Kiley skippered all twelve races for Notre Dame. Paul was low boat in the A division with 13 points and Jay low boat in B division with 12 points. The Irish were behind by 8 points at the haif way point but pulled easily ahead during the second half of the race with five firsts and a second. Iowa took second  last night as Off-Campus and and Howard-St. Ed's battled to r.] k to victory place with 38 points. Two other members of the Sailing Team travelled to the University of Illinois for_ basically an "experience building" regatta. Amidst rainy and windless weather Guy Wroble and Margaret McMan­amin found the "luck of the Irish" Jacking as they skippered Notre Dame to last place in single-handed sailing competition. Fortunately . theis loss will not affect the standing of the team. This coming weekend Michigan will host Notre Dame and ten other schools in an intersectional regatta featuring two big threats, Navv and Tufts University.  Neither team was able to sustain a serious offensive threat until 0-C drove deep into Morrissey territory late in the first quarter. Morris­sey's defense stiffened, however, and when Bill Sahms' pass to Tom Kirby fell incomplete in the end­zone, Morrissey took over. Morrissey opened the second quarter with a strong drive aided by a questionable roughing-the­kicker call and a 25 yard strike from quarterback Jimmy Edwards to tight-end Pat O'Connell. The drive stalled. on the twenty, and a thirty-seven yard field-goal attempt was wide. With three minutes remaining in the half,' Sahm was able to evade a strong Morrissey pass rush long enough to find Tony Miller wide­open behind the Morrissey second­ary. Miller galloped the remaining thirty yards to complete the 67 yard touchdown play. The two-point conversion was successful and 0-C led at the half. 8-0. The third quarter featured a barrage of turnovers and neither team mounted a serious threat. Jack McCarthy, who was injured early in the second quarter, return­ed as the fourth quarter began, and provided most of the fire power as  Howard's territory. Howard was unable to generate any offense, and only a couple of booming punts by Greg Stamm kept them out of serious trouble. With ,one minute remaining in the half. Dillon quarterback Bill Griffin found Tim Holroyd in the Howard secondary. Despite good coverage, Holroyd hauled in the pass without losing stride and outraced the secondary to the end-zone for a 51 yard touchdown play. The conversion was blocked. But Howard was not through. On the very next play Howard quarter­back Dan Tramel threw up a wounded duck that had two Dillon defenders licking their chops, wait­ing for the interception. While they were waiting, Howard wide receiv­er John Dziminski knifed between them. caught the ball, and raced the remaining 25 yards for the touchdown. The conversion was again no good and the half ended 6-6. With five minutes remaining in the game, Howard's Jim Bowers intercepted an attempted screen pass and returned it to the Dillon 4l..Dillon returned the favor a few minutes later when Dillon corner­back Chris Pierson picked off a pass on the goal-line. Griffin and  Neither team was able to sustain any offense until Sarin quarterback John Romanelli found wide receiv­er Brian Phillips with a 31 yard pass completion, moving the ball deep into Alumni territorv. Snrin then drove to the seven vard line. where Romanelli scored on a keeper around right-end. Mike Schute dove over for the two-point conversion to give Sarin an 8-0 lead at the half. Sarin's shutout held up. as both teams failed to score in the second half. The 'Count' hurls no-hitter ATLANTA (APJ · San Fran· cisco's swaggering John Montefus­co came within one pitch of a perfect game Wednesday night. hurling a 9-0 no-hitter against the Atlanta Braves. The youngster. known as "The Count" for his exceptional poise and cocky appearance on the mound, allowed onlv one batter to reach base -a walk on a 3-1 pitch to Jerry Rosyer leading off the fourth innin~.  
~~  ..  
THURS.  
SEPT.30  
HEAR  STEPAN 7:30  

Thursday, September 30, 1976 
the observer 1 1 
_.::_____c 

0-C, Sorin win in interhall 

LOST: 1 hi(lhSchool rin(l--Sa> Benet corner. Tom wants tickets, Tim is
N.otices Academy. Red ·stone, yello•. (]Old For Sale 
havin'l fun with the Old Ba'l andsettin'l, 1974 rin'l, initials PAR. 1St. 
Jean ';s still lookin'l for the blond
Three female kittens desperately Mary's class rCn(l--traditional dia­Classified Ads For Sale: Set of a, lon'l stemmed djb . 
need homes. Call 232-9861 after 6 mond chip, 1978 rin(l, initials PAR Coors <1lasses. Best offer·. Call Steve 
1478..
P.M. Ba (lold antiqued sellin(l. Lost Crackers! If you give me 5 minute~somewhere between NO 8 SMC. 
I'll buy you new socks. ROTC Jock
Will teach flute in your spare time. Call Patti 4-5723. Buildin[l Se:·vices, 1608 Commerce NEW LONDON LAKE CONDO­
Call Betr. 8112 for more info. Drive, South Bend, Ind. Applica­MINIUM 2 bedrooms, den, 2 car Is that anythin(l like 'Five minutes,
LOST: NO school rin'l LaFortune. t•ons accepted on Tues., Wed. and (lara(le. $33,900. Sandy Stroes 272 
Nanovic'?
Gay Hotline: 8870 October 1 and 2, Reward. Call CAB at l812. Thursday between 9-11 AM and 7550-272-2696. 
8:00-PM to 10:00 PM. G.C.N.D. 1 :30 to 3 PM, and on Sat. from 9-11 I think somebody should tell JBMP.O. Box 206 Notre Dame AM. Equal Opportunity Employer. 1972 Honda 450 excellent condition, that some ROTC Jock is movin'l in$650 or trade for car. Call Charlie.
Wanted on Crackers. Will she ever <let'herDesperate-I'd sell by mother for 3 277-0692 after 6 p.m.
Greyhound Bus to Ch ica(lo Leaves Need four Ore<1on tixs. Can be 2 & just desserts? ·BAMA tickets. 8775.
circle every Friday at 4:45. Call Tom 2. No thieves n-eed call. For friends. 
Yes, I know. Five minutes, JBM.
at 8338 by Midni(lht Thursday for Call Cole 288-5667. Thanks. AM. FM 4 channel stereo receiver, Nanovic, Coleman, Good Voice, C,
seat reservations and further info. "Rich Uncle" needs Alabama tic­66 watts channel stereo 4 months and RNG.
kets. Mike 3452. Morrissey Loan Fund $20-150 1 day 288-5667. 
Need 4 Ore(lon tix. GA. Call Cole old. Brian 1777. $400.00 
Mike, Don't 'live me the old TENTH
wait. 1 percent interest due in 30 Wanted: 4 Ore(lon tickets and 2 1972 Porsche 914, sharp, 39,000 
AVENUE FREEZE OUT. Me.
days. LaFortune Basement, M-F Lost of tix-any home (lame. Call Tom Miami tickets for brother who miles. Also new S-track stereo 
11 :15-12:15. 287-3689. couldn't (let into this [ln~at school. recorder-player. Call 287-7818. Ray 1417. 
Jim & Duff, Many thanks for 
------------~--­
"drivin(l" us crazy. It was [lreat!
BEER: Ke(ls, Free Delivery & Low Alabama tix student or GA needed. '75 Nova 6-cylinder, stick, power Love, J.N.E.A.E.
Prices. 288-7878 Chip. $Will pay$ Charlie 287-4931. Need Ore(lon GA tickets. Call Ruth steerin(l. Clean. 288-9413 even in(ls. 
7136 or 272-3513.
----+--------------­
JD, I still haven't finished my
Accurate, Fast typin(l. Mrs. bonoho Need two tickets to BAMA <1ame. One Michigan St. ticket for sale. 
Organic Lab Report... Yes, that's an Kathy, 4418.
232-0746. Cafl AI at 1762. -Need Orer10n GA tickets. Call Call Colleen 8053 or 8055. 
invitation! G 
TRADERS VILLAGE Open 10-4. Need 3 Michigan St. fix. Call 8042. Calculator for sale-Texas Instru­Ken, Happy "21". Thou(lht you
Used Furniture & collectables.' Really need "Cryan' Shames" al­ment SR-11. Original box with full might want to catch up on your
255-0314. 13000 blk. McKiniey, 1 Ur(lent! Need place to live. Quiet, bum-" A Scratch in the Sky"-Call accessories. $90 nes, sell $20. Dave 4-5236. Will pay big $ 8528. 
readin(l. Kevin, John
blk. North Frances St. non-smoker. Please contact Bill at 7437 till 5 p.m. weekdays. 
Geralyn is NF, and a F.W., but we
Absolutely biggest Junior League PLENTY OF CASH for 3 GA Ore11on 3 BRUCE tickets tor sale. Good 
still think she's a cute Q. B.
thrift Shop ever< Over 35,000 items. Addressers wanted immediately$ tickets. Gus 6726. · seats in Padded Sections. Good New and Used clothing, toys, house­Work at home--no experience nec­price-call Tom at 289-0114 and see ware$, furniture, etc. Sat. Oct. 2, essary--excellent pay. Write Amer­Girl seeks housin[l urgently. Prefers Sprin(lsteen live. 
DETROIT CLUB and OTHER 
DOMERS <10in<1 to M.S.U. 11ame
9:00 · a.m.-4:30 p.m. 4-H Fair­seperate room. Call Annalisa 6584.
ican Service, Suite 132, Minne­we'll meet ·at Dooley's at 8:00 p.m.
(lrounds. Parkin(] and admission apolis, Mn. 55426. 
Sat. Oct. 2. Be there!
free. 4 GA Alabama tix needed. Desper­Personals
------------.....-...;:r--­
ate. Call John 287-6823. JJ 266 -You are the 11reatest
wanted: Assistant H"useholder for MSU parties Oct. 2 11 A.M. Wayne
Will do typing: themes, manu­psychiatric· half-way house facility. "honorary" roommate a · person 
scripts. Call 287-5162. ROLL TIDE-(lot some extra GA tix ever had! C Schaefer's touse. Post 11ame T.G.
Primarily weekend work including Faiver's flat. Maps at 25.2 Dillon.
you wanna get rid of fast? Call Mary Why I pay more? Flanner Records small salary. Call 234-1049 for 8125. Hey Paul and Marti, Are you havin[l
overnight stay. Room, board plus LESLIE, I'd bake you some brown
has $6.98 list L.P.'s for $4.65. Call further information. fun toni(lht without me? I'll be there 
ies for your birthday...but I'm all out
1492 or stop by 809 Flanner Hall. Need 2 BAMA tix for parents who next week after I fail my tests . d, [1 ·of eggshells. Happy 21st. Love.
never have been to an ND 11ame.
Go West!! In search of Ore<1on RAZOR
See Old Blind Tom-coming soon at tickets. Call Gregg at 1650. • Mary 8125. · Hey Pa!JI and_ Marti, Are you having 
the NAZZ-used to be student but fun ton•ght w1thout me? I'll be there 
J, You're cute even if you did give
lost glasses near bars. Now plays Need 3 or 4 Michi<1an St. tix. Call Ride to Toledo this Friday. Call next week after I fail all my tests ­
Pe[lgy 8125. djb me your cold. Can I give it back? G
jazz harmonica and wears dark 8042. ­
glasses. Find those glasses! Call 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY TO THE
Tom at 289-0114. Desperately need ride to Columbus, USFSA Fi[lure and-or Dance Pro­Mary Beth H. You sounded so sad 
TAZMANIAN PORKER. LOVE,
Ohio weekend of Oct. 9. Call Gary fessienal. Call Mrs. Myers. Mich­last night, so here is your very own 
BERNASCON' 5
1785. iana Figure Skating Club 287-4524. personal. You finally made it to the For Rent . Need 2 27" wheels for 10 speed bi[l time, but never forget where you 
Hey, Taco Lady, What's Cookin,
bike. Preferably quick release. Call
Need 2 GA BAMA tix desperately. came from. djb 
You "Mother"&! Hamburger Help­
..
Single rooms, 511 N. Frances. Call Call 1785. Jim at 289-0114. 
er
232-8712. Must like dogs. 5 minutes, Coleman! WE WILL TRAIN YOU! Part-time or 
Cute, real cute.
full-time. We will train and provide It's pretty sad when you have to type Lost & Found steady employment to honest, de­in a Personal to yourself.
HELP! Need 2 GA Oregon t;'ckets.
LOST: 1 man's Sieko watch. Re­pendable persons who are willing BUY BILEK BAGELS!! BETTER
Call Gregg at 1650. BECAUSE THEY'RE BLENDER­
ward. Sail John 3373. and able to learn. Everybody wants to be in the paper. 
We are· a large company involved in Rick doesn't know what he wants .to 
say arid Oct. is iust around the
the inside cleaning and housekeep­ED! CALL5779 FOR THE RECIPE. ing of builrlin.-,s. Apply at rn 



~------------------~---------------------------------------------------------------' 

12 the observer Thursday, September 30, 1976 
-~~~----------~~~------~---­
Michigan State suffering from NCAA penalties 
by Val ZurbUs and Fred Herbst 

This Saturday, the Fighting Irish of Notre Dame face the Michigan State Spartans, who have been put on probation by the National Col­legiate Athletic Association. The Spartans are currently suffering one of the most extensive penalties in NCAA history. 
Found guilty of numerous viola­tions. Michigan State is on proba­tion for three years. They have been banned from live television coverage and the number of foot­ball scholarships they can give out has been limited. 
I 
Seven players have been sus­pended for various lengths of time. The most serious violation was when two players, tight end Mike Cobb and defensive back Joe Hunt, were given use of a credit card. 
The NCAA Committee on Infrac­t ions reviewed the evidence from
' I 
both sides and then concluded that
f• 
the credit card belonged to a 
~ 
representative of athletic interest.
I 
It was presented to an assistant
t 
coach who kept it in the glove 
~ 
compartment of his car. The coach 
I 
I 
lent the car out to the two players who bought clothes with the card. Cobb was suspended for five games and Hunt was suspended for 
the year. 
l 
A few weeks ago the pair filed suit in the federal court in Michi­gan to keep the NCAA from 
applying the rules of their eligibil­ity. Judge Noll Fox refused to issue a restraining order and it is not known if there will be any further litigation. 
The situation has changed a bit in the last few days. The mother of Joe Hunt has written a letter to Fox asking him to reconsider her son's case. Stating that he is unable to do so, Fox has asked the NCAA to reconsider the suspensions. 
According to Bill Hunt (no relation to the MSU player), execu­tive assistant to Warren Brown, the head of the Enforcement Depart­ment of the NCAA. they are "not certain at this point, but a conceiv­able rehearing could take place." 
Four other players were sus­pended for one game as a result of accepting favors from a member of the Spartan coaching staff, Howard Weyers. 
Two were suspended for accept­
ing a ride to Cleveland from 
Weyers. He was driving to Pitts­
burgh during a school vacation and 
gave the players rides to Cleveland 
where they took a bus for the 
remainder of their trip. 
Two other MSU players were 
suspended for using Weyers' name 
as a reference in an application for 
a credit card. Using a coach as a 
reference is classified as a special 
favor by the NCAA. 
A fifth player was suspended for 
an undisclosed reason. 
All these players have returned 
to the team except one, who is out 
on an injury. 
The University was found guilty of withholding information. They failed to provide relevant materials and other information in the initial response to the NCAA official inquiry. "This doesn't mean that the University didn't go out and ftnd it," explained Bill Hunt. "It was a question of providing the material before or at the meeting of the school and the NCAA. The NCAA was obligated to have the inf<rmation before the meeting, and Michigan State provided it at the meeting." 
Michigan State was also found guilty of having recruiting visits with high school athletes on a day when they were involved in an athletic event. 
As a result of the investigation, Weyers has been removed from the Michigan State coaching staff. Head Coach Denny Stolz has also left the Spartan camp, not as a result of the NCAA investigation, but rather due to a University investigation that linked him to an athletic department slush fund. Several other coaches have left to fill positions with other schools or pro teams. None were forced to leave under pressure. 
Former San Jose State mentor Darryl Rogers is now at the Michigan State helm and is faced with the unenviable chore of build­ing a team from the ashes of the NCAA penalties. 
The effect of the entire affair on the Spartan football program re­mains uncertain. "I don't know how to assess it," said Fred Stabley, Michigan State sports 

%Observer 





Sports· 
Away cheerleader of the week 

information director. "It hasn't had a great effect on the team or our performance, and we can't use it as an alibi for our record. It's difficult to say what the final effects will be. Young men have a way of rebound­ing unlike older people. The team's spirit is very strong." 
Asked if he felt the Spartans were bitter about their situation, Stabley answered, "No comment." 
Ed Ronders, controversial sports editor of The State News, the student newspaper, had more to say. "I think the people of the University are bitter mainly be­cause Woody (Woody Hayes, head coach at Ohio State) turned us in," he said. "Not that we're innocent, just that he's doing thesamedamn thing." 
Woody Hayes has been a favorite topic of Ronders' the past few months. Since Hayes admitted calling the attention of the NCAA to Michigan State earlier this year at a Big Ten coaches conference, Ronders has been trying to find irregularities in the Ohio State football program so Ohio State may suffer the same punishment as the Spartans. 
Ronders claims to have on record a Columbus, Ohio policeman who admits he has been given cash to give rides to different Ohio State players. He also claims to have Rudy Hubbard, a former Ohio State assistant coach, admitting he al­lowed Buckeye fullback Pete John­son to use his car a number of times. These are both violations of NCAA rules. 
This information, along with more. has been turned over to the NCAA by Ronders and is currently being investigated. The NCAA will not comment on any open cases. 
Ronders also claims that the NCAA had a lack of protocol in their investigation of Michigan State. 
Hunt claims the Committee fol-
Women netters lose to NU, 9-0 
by B.J. Lavins Sports Writer 

Last Tuesday the women's var­sity tennis team dropped its first match of the season to Northweste­rn, 9-0. 
The loss, which puts the Irish record at 3 and 1, came against a Northwestern team which was still riding high from a 9-0 rout over third ranked Wisconsin. "North­western is a very good young team and has really improved since last year,'' commented coach Cathy Cordes. "In fact, the number one player from last year's team is sixth on this year's team and is only a sophomore. The top five players are all freshmen. I really can't say enough about how good they are and am looking forward to meeting them here next year." 
Team captain Jane Lammers in singles competition came the clos­est to putting a tally on the board for Notre Dame when she won her first set 6-4. The second set was her undoing, however, as she lost 6-7 in a tiebreaker. From there it all went downhill for Lammers as 
-she lost 3-6 in the third set. 
In doubles competition Ginger Siefring and Ellen Callahan came from behind as they won their second set 6-2 after losing the opener 2-6. Their quest for victory was thwarted, however, in the rubber set as they were shut out by the opposition. 
Notre Dame went into Tuesday's match against Northwestern after an impressive fifth place finish (out of 19 teams) at the Indiana State Tournament. Paddy Mullin, Jane Lammers, and Diane Shillingburg all made it to the semi-finals before losing. Number one player Mary Shukis was eliminated in the first round of the tournament by the eventual winner in three sets. 
The tennis team will be in action again this Saturday when they travel to Decator, Illinois, for the 61st Annual Dorothy McGuire M­emorial Tennis Tournament at Milikan University. 

lowed proper procedures in the investigation of the Michigan State case. "Our procedures are specif­ically upheld in federal court," he said. "We didn't follow any dif­ferent procedures from any other case." 
"When someone from the out­side comes into a school to find damaging evidence, it pins an unpopular name on them. We haye to follow reasonable guidelines;" he explained. 
Hunt ponted out the purpose of the NCAA as believing that student athletics should be put in proper perspective. "Less than one per­cent of the collegiate athletes go on to become professionals," remark­ed Hunt. "Ninety-nine percent plus have to find something else." 
The Committee on Infractions compares each case and then judges and proposes a penalty. Two years ago Oklahoma was put on probation for two years relating to transcript violations. 
Probably the worst case was in 1973. Southwestern Louisiana Uni­versity's program· was in the top ten of the nation. The NCAA investigated them and found over 100 violations. They were put on probation and more violations were found. They were then put on probation in every sport for four years and their basketball team was disbanded for two years. 

There are five people on the Committee on Infractions: John Sawyer, a dean at Wake Forest University;-Arthur Reynolds, the chairman of the committee, dean of the graduate school in Northern Colorado; Bill Matthews, dean of the Law School at the University of Kentucky; Harry Cross. dean of the Law School at the University of Washington; and finally, Charles Allen Wright, law professor at the University of Texas in Austin. Wright served as former President Nixon's attorney over the disputes of the Watergate tapes, but he withdrew his services before the case was closed. He is the noted authority on constitutional law. 


Ringside 
..•,,.,••.--.·;·.·u.·.-.·.:,•.:,•.•.•.:,•.·.:,·.·······················································AII. or Norton?
····~·~·~···,····-·-·-·-·..-.;.•..............................•..•..•;.-.•.•..•..•..•..•····································· . 
It was a fitting end to an unforgettable evening. 
''You may have just witnessed the end of an era,'' the hoarse announcer screamed into his microphone. "Muhammad Ali has finally met his match." With these words, he directed the attention of the viewers to the center of the ring, where the ring announcer was apparently about to proclaim Ken Norton victor, thus putting an end at last to the reign of the Heavyweight Champion, Ali. Not too surprisingly, though Ali did indeed "meet his match," he still got the decision. But it was a hollow victory. and the champ knew it. 
All night long the overflow crowd of nearly 1500 at the Morris Civic Auditorium had sat stunned as the underrated challenger fought off the best punches the aging Ali had to offer, countering with more than a few flurries of his own. At times there were flashes of the Ali of old--the dancing that made him famous in his younger days. the "rope­a-dope" tactics that have characterized his more recent bouts. But the quickness that had made Ali one of the all-time greats of boxing lore was · no longer there, and though he tried to hide the fact, it was more than a little obvious. 
But much more disturbing to the highly partisan crowd was the fact that Norton took such advantage of the weakness of Ali. Counter-punch­ing effectively throughout the fight. the confident underdog bore in on the champ. hurting him a couple of times and completely dominating the final moments of the fight. After months of tireless training, Norton had set out to prove to all that he was every bit as good a boxer as his much-her­alded opponent. By the end of the fight the only ones he hadn't convinced were a handful of Ali diehards--and the three judges. The Yankee Stadium crowd of more than 40,000 people stood applauding Norton at the fight's end. Moment's later they booed as the decision was announced. 
Ali uncharacteristically had nothing to say to reporters after the bout. The closed-circuit television announcer expressed his surprise at the result, and then signed off. As for Norton, who had stood moments earlier on the threshold of one of the sport's greatest upsets, he was now in no less than a state of shock. He wept bitterly and openly as soon as the decision was rendered, and had to be virtually carried to his locker room. 
In retrospect, perhaps it was too much to expect that Ali might lose. For a defeat at this late stage of his career (the champ is 34--few fighters are effective past their late 20's) would almost certainly end his days in the ring. And no one understands the implications of this more than Norton, who said just days before the fight, "Muhammad Ali is boxing." Ali's demise could well be boxing's. Nonetheless, a champion is one who beats his challengers rather than survives them. Ali's fightTuesday was a lesson in survival. 
... 
·;:: 
:"'::: ~ 
..1!: 
u >­
1: 0 
,..... 
>­
..&J 
0 
0 
-
...c: 
e:. 




