------------------------------------------~------------------­
e server 
university of notre dame -st. mary's college


Four votes decide state drinking age 
by John Shaughnessy Staff Reporter 
Whether or not the Indiana House of Representatives approve 
changing the state's drinking age to 19 will be decided by four 
votes. according to Tom Black. coordinator of the Notre Dame 
Student Lobby. 
The House convenes today at I :00 p.m. to vote on the lowered 
drinking age proposal. 
When asked if the House will approve the 19-year-old legal age, 
Black simply stated, "I think we'll have the necessary 51 votes to 
pass the bill on Monday. It all will rest on pulling four more votes." 
Blat·k's analysis represents a significant shift on the bill's chance 
of success since last Wednesday. At that time, State Senator Robert 
Kovach said. "As to where things stand right now, I really don't 
think the bill will be approved by the House." 
Kovach made his statement after conferring with Rep. Stanley .Jones, one of the co-sponsors of the bill, HR 1104. On Wednesday, .Jones had estimated that 36 representatives supported a 19-year-old drinking age. The support of an additiona115 members, Kovach stated, wasn't likely. 
Before the House convened today. Black said there are now 47 representatives who are definitely in favor of the bill. Another six members who are undecided, he stated, could be persuaded to support the bill. At least four votes are needed to get the bill passed. 
"Out of those four votes, three seem to be leaning our way," 
Black noted. 
"If we get 51 representatives to support the bill, several others will jump on the bandwagon," Black continued. "We could end up with 55 votes. The important thing though is to get the four votes we need." 
Lobby efforts help 
Ed Byrne,lstudent body president, attributed the reason for the bill's improved chance of success to the efforts of a student lobby in Indianapolis last week under the direction of Black. 
Last Thursday, a lobby composed of Black, Byrne, Jerry Klingenberger, Cress Hizer, Tom Fitzgerald, Darlene Palma, John Lonsberg, Augie Grace, Rob Tully, Michele Tate, Diana Merton and Stan Cardenas went to Indianapolis to convince legislators of the bill's merit. 
Byrne stated, "When we showed up on Thursday, almost everyone had lost hope of getting the bill passed. The Indiana Student Association and the two co-sponsors of the bill (Reps. Jones and Marilyn Schultz) thought the bill was dead. This feeling was due to its being an election year and since no controversial legislation has been passed so far this year." 
According to Byrne, the lobby efforts were already responsible for getting the bill out of committee. (Last year, Chester Dobis, the chairman of the Public Policy Committee, let the bill die in committee.) 
"We've managed to get the bill further than anyone expected in an election year," Byrne comonented. "And right now the chances for the bill's passage are 50-SO. We'll be returning to Indianapolis on Monday in an attempt to convince more legislators that the bill should be approved.'' 
According to Black, the lobby has also been working this past weekend to have students who live in Indiana to either call or write their legislators to display support for the bill. Letters were delivered in person by the lobbyists to the representatives this morning. 
Might walt one year 
Black revealed another strategy if the support of four more legislators cannot be gained. "We won't hold a vote on the bill if we don't have the necessary votes to pass it," Black stated. 
If that is the case when the House convenes today, Black will ask Rep. Jones to signal to the Speaker of the House, Philip Bainbridge, not to hold a roll call vote. 
"The reason we won't force the vote unless we have 51 votes is because its a liberal issue and if it fails, voting for it could hurt some of our supporters running in the election," Black explained. 
"We'd like to have the people who support the bill to remain in office rather than see them lose their offices by casting a meaningless vote," state 


Monday, January 19, 1976 

In hunger fight 
World education essential 
by Mary Mungovan Staff Reporter 

"Education in today's world is realizing that every major problem is not only global in content but global in solution," Fr. Theodore Hesburgh. university president, affirmed at a meeting Sunday of the Notre Dame World Hunger Coalition. 
Co-chairmen Barb Robinson and Doug Allen announced that the Coalition's main projects for the semester would be "an education program to inform campus and South Bend communities on the hunger problem and a continuation of the Wednesday Night Fast Program." Approximately 100 attended the meeting in the Library Lounge. 
In his opening speech, Hesburgh stated, "Over 480 million people are undernourished tonight and over 90 million will die of illness related to malnutrition.'' 
"There are three things to be done," he continued. "The U.S. should supply half of the 10 million ton food shortage each year. The global food reserve should be increased and the U.S. should help underdeveloped countries de­velop their own agriculture." 
"Education is our prime focus," Allen stated. "Before we can act on the problems of world hunger, people must become aware not only of the facts but of how it feels to go hungry, even if only for one night a week.'' 
As part of its program of community education, the Coalition will supply speakers, films and literature to schools, parishes and clubs in South Bend and on the Notre Dame-St. Mary's campus, Allen exaplained. 
Robinson announced that educa­tion workshops would be held on Feb. l and Feb. 8, ''to educate coalition members to responsibly inform others about the facts of the world hunger situation." 
"The Coalition will launch an intensified pledge drive in the next two weeks for this semester's dining hall fast program," Allen related. "We hope to reach a goal of 1,000 participants, an increase over last semester's 480," he added. 
In addition, the organization will sponsor a monthly Vegetarian Meal and will publish a monthly newslet­ter with articles on the world food situation and coalition activities. 
Coalition Begun In 1974 

The World Hunger Coalition was created in November, 1974, under the instigation of Fr. Hesburgh. Its purpose, according to Allen, is to "educate campus and South Bend communities about global injust­ice'' and to raise money for the hungry. Money received by the Coalition goes to overseas relief organizations (such as CARE, UN, ICEF, CORR, and Catholic Relief Service) and the poor of South Bend. Allen estimated the Coali­tion had over SO members last semester. 
In addition, approximately 480 students participated in the Wed­nesday Night Fast Program in which the dining hall paid 75 cents per participant per night. Accord­
ing to Chris Brinegar, former 
coalition president, the program 
brought in over $4,000. 
In an Offering of Letters Drive last November, the Coalition urged students to write their senators and congressmen to support a Right-to­Food Resolution. This drive was part of a nationwide letter cam­paign sponsored by Bread for the World, a Christian citizens lobbly. 
According to Greg Gramelspach­er, over 150,000 letters reached Washington, "in the biggest single letter-writing campaign in support of foreign assistance since World War II. As a result, two subcom­mittees -one in the Senate and one in the House -are now scheduling hearings.'' 
National Conference 
Four Coalition members attend­ed the National University Confer­enmce on Hunger, Nov 21-23, in Austin, Texas. the Institute for World Order and Project Dialogue sponsored the conference, the first of its kind on a national scale, attended by 500 students, faculty 
(continued on page 7) 

Final repeated; students irate 
by Cathy Nolan Staff Reporter 

Many sophomore business ad­ministration students have expres­sed dissatisfaction with the final exam given last semester. The examination, which was used for the Principles of Accounting 221 classes, was identical to that which was used for the first semester of last year. 
A number of complaints have been made by the students to the business department. 
It was discovered, after the final had been given, that it was similar in every respect to last year's examination. Some students had seen the exam prior to the date of the final. Those students who did have a copy of the old test however, were not aware that this year's final was identical. 
The exam which was used was made up by Professor James Wittenbach of the accounting de­partment. It was to be given to the 1974 Principles of Accounting clas­ses. Wittenbach was not teaching any sophomore accounting classes this year and consequently was not involved in the decision to give the same exam. Wittenbach did not become aware of the reuse of the exam until two weeks ago. 
When asked why he though the department used last year's final, Witten bach stated, "It is' only speculation on my part, but the department probably considered the final to be a rigorous, compre­hensive test which would help them to accurately evaluate the student's knowledge of the subject matter." 
According to Wittenbaeh, any student who wished to have his final exam returned to him could do so after the semester had ended. The students were allowed to keep their exams. As a result, some students in last semester's ac­counting classes had access to the test prior to the day of the examination. 
Sophomore Maureen Geary ob­tained a copy of the exam from a junior business major who had Wittenbach last year. Geary, as other students who had seen the test, was completely unaware that the finals would be identical. 
"I asked to look at the final, as an afterthought, as a means of 
reviewing for our final," Geary 
stated. 
Bob Kruse, a sophomore busi­ness major, said that he and several of his friends tried to find a copy of the final with which to review, but were unsuccessful. "We checked the hall test file and various other sources to no avail," he said. 
Of the students who were ques­tioned, none had seen their final exams nor did they know what their exam grades were. The students were not certain as to the effect the exam had upon the outcome of their grades. Several students specualted that the exam scores were overlooked when figuring out 
,semester grades. 
According to the students pres­ently enrolled in Accounting 222, several new guidelines were issued to the classes at the beginning of this semester. All homework must now be passed in to the professor. No previous tests will be used without extensive changes being made in the problems. The professors will not provide any hints or helpful advice in regard to test questions. The tests will be graded on a university curve. 
Also, the students will nol be permitted to use calculators during the examination period. 
It is not known whether any action was taken by the department with regard to the final, in the way of using a special curve or reducing the grade value of the exam. 
Dr. Raymond Powell, accounting department chairman, refused to comment on the matter. Asst. Dean Vince Raymond was unavail­able for comment. 

----' 
-

2 the observer· Monday, ~19, l976 Founder of Feminists for Life 
---NewsBriefs--........ 
l r I::=========International Nobel prize winner gets kicked out MOSCOW--Nobel Peace Prize winner Andrei Sakharov said Sunday his status as a resident in Moscow has been jeopardized in a change of apartments that left him without a residence permit. The 54-year old human rights activist said he lost his residency permit--a required document for all Soviet citizens--when he gave up one apartment registered in his name and then found he was denied permission to establish official residency in his wife's apartment in another part of tovyn. 
PLO read~ to stop ciuil war 
TEL AVIV, Israel-· Units of the Palestine Liberation Army have crossed the border from Syria into Lebanon over the last few days and are poised to intervene in the civil war. . 
An official source said that a Palestinian force trained in Syria had arrived inside Lebanese territory "in the last few days." 
Israel has repeatedly warned it would strongly react to any outside intervention in the Lebanese civil war which might endanger the security of the Jewish state. 


l===================National 
HHH comments on Reagan's comments 

COLUMBIA,Mo.-Sen. Hubert Humphrey says Ronald Reagan's statement that citizens unhappy with the management of their state can move to another is ''the most callous, brutal, political statement I've heard in the 20th century." 
Hu:onphrey said the GOP presidential contender's plan to shift certain programs from the federal government to the states would result in drastic increases in state income, property and sales taxes. 
Armed abductor still sought 
SPRINGER, N.M.--An armed man sought in the abduction of six persons, including a state policeman, continued to elude police in northeast New Mexico yesterday. 
State policeme.n said the latest two hostages were abducted yesterday morning from their rural home near Springer. The other four hostages including the policeman were released unharmed Saturday night at a farm near Springer. 
Police chief position uiolates law 

LYNDON STATION, Wis.-· William Jessen is chief of police in this Juneau County community, despite a felony conviction that makes his employment a violation of state law. 
"When this board appointed Jessen, we figured that as long as we were paying his salary, the state had nothing to say about who we hired," said John Adams, president of the village of 553 residents located in central Wisconsin. 
.,.____On Campus Today·--. 
5:00p.m -vespers, log chapel. 
7:00 p. m -meeting, chess dub, ll1ilfh mri1JUfjng amter nn 226. 
7:30 p.m -lecture, tr<r~scendental rreditatlon program. lib. aud. 



---TheObserver--­
Night E'di1or -Val Zurblis Copy Reader -Don Reirrer 
Asst. Nght E'ditor-John Calrutt day E'ditor-Miry Reher 

Layout -Jim Cornrt,-h, O<rlny Sanchez Typists-Terri Harl<r~, Mcri<r~ne Keefe, 
E'dHorials -Ma-tha F<r~nlng Kcren Chiar'res Sports -Bill Brink Night Controller -Howcrd H Alge 5 -Tom O'Neil W. S. Nichols 

Mader, Flynn promoted 
Bob Mader and Maureen Flynn have been· appointed to fill major positions in The Observer news department and Editorial Board. 
Mader has been named news editor and Flynn has assumed the post of campus editor. Their appointments are effective today. 
Mader, a junior American Stu­dies major from Fairview Park, Ohio, has served as campus editor since September. His responsibili­ties include daily supervision of The Observer news department and reporting staff. 
Mader replaces Ken Girouard 

ERRATUM 
The January 16th article on the 1976 Mock Political Convention plans incorrectly stated that Sen­ator Philip Hart of Michigan has been invvited to address the con­vention Assembly on either Friday, March 5th or Saturday, March 6th. 
The correct speaker will be Senator Gary Hart of Colorado. 

who resigned. Mader has worked at The Obser· 
verfor two years as staff reporter, copy reader and day editor. Flynn, a sophomore English major! from St. Louis, Missouri, 
replaces Mader as campus editor. 
Her responsibilities include opera­tion of reporter "beats" and re­cruitment of new reporters. 
Flynn has been with The Ob-
er. 
The Observer is published Monday through Friday and weekly during the summer session. except during exams and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of the un·iv. of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for 10 dollars per semester ( 18 dollars per yearl from The Ob· server. Box Q, Notre Dame, In diana. 46556. Second Class postage 
paid, Notre Dame, IN 46556. 



Goltz lectures at SMC 

by Jean O'Meara Staff Reporter 

Patricia Goltz, the founder and international president of Femin­ists for Life delivered a low-keyed personal account of what makes a woman liberated to a near capacity audience yesterday afternoon. 
As a former member of the National Organization for Women [NOW] who was expelled for her public views against abortion, Goltz along with Cathy Callaghan, professor of Linguistics at Ohio State University, founded a new feminist movement which among other positive views, stresses pro­life. 
Since the Women's Liberation Movement has gained strength in numbers and power since its inception, some of its original goals have been lost, according to Goltz. In earlier years, a woman was liberated if she had "a choice in marrying and raising a family or 
having a professional career." But 
today, according to Goltz, the woman is liberated only if she has a professional career in mind. It is Goltz' intention to bring back the original goals to the feminist movement. 
In order to make this a reality, she conceives of a practical way for each individual woman to realize her own liberation; how society can help women in attaining their goals; and finally, how the Femin­ists for Life group is attempting to meet these challenges. 
As an individual, a woman has got to have self-discipline. Without this basic ingredient, she cannot be liberated. For the key to carrying out one's choice is in planning the future. If "overriding instincts" take over, we can never achieve our goals, Goltz explained. This attri­bute must be allied with "a personal, well-thought out ethical code with well-defined absolutes." 
Turning to the society in which woman finds herself, Goltz said that the industrial world must now reshape itself in order to suit the needs of a family unit which must not be isolated one from the other over long periods. 
According to Goltz, woman must learn to live in harmony with her body. Industry must find a place to welcome the working family's chil­dren and the medical profession must find a way to help the woman live in harmony with her body. 
The Feminists for Life are at­tempting to meet these challenges by attempting to set up a national grant which would support the mother's need for developing her own· resources and talents in the home. Research in her own field: the arts, music, pottery, ecology 
It is Patricia Goltz' intention to bring bad< the original goals to the feninisf 
rmvement (photo by Chris Snith). could be carried out and supported by the woman who wants to remain at home with her growing family. Other goals which the Feminists for Life want to see realized are better day care centers which would focus on self-discipline for the child, emphasizing the Monte­sorri method, and a possible facility 
within industrial centers whtch would accommodate working fam­ily's children. 
Patricia Goltz is married to the Senior Vice President and Systems Programmer for Compu-Serv Net­work in Columbus, Ohio, and is the mother of four children. 
.! 
" "'0::
5 ~ t Town & Country IE :g ~ Shopping Mall E .':! 


~(I)
I 
421 N. Hickory Rd. and Scottsdale Mall, S. Bend, Concord Mall, Elkhart 

QUALITY BRANDS 
JBL MciNTOSH BIC ELECTRO VOICF BOSE TECHNICS REVOX H H SCOTT SONY KENWOOD UTAH PIONEER AVID TANDBERG 

······~··········••+•••·..····························.
~ 

: ~ Let your family· know :
i :

t what's going on. t 
: : 
tc ir 
~ ~ s d h Th Ob : otl
en 0 me 

tr ~ I $1o 
tr 

tr ror on y 
tr 
~ 

server for two years. This year she tr has served as day editor, assistant • night editor and senior staff report-: 
-NAME
c 

t ADDRESS 
•

! 
~ 

..••••••••••••••••••••••••+........................... 
e server.~: 
'?' 




a semester iC ir 
t• 
• 
• 
• 
•: • 
~ 
•
•
t
: 
~--­

Monday, January 19, 1976 the observer 
Fordgives State of Union tonight 
WASHINGTON CAP) -Pres­caution that economic recovery tax cut onto the $18 billion cut He has been working on the terns still exist, but to a lesser ident Ford on Sunday polished cannot continue if there is un­passed earlier, they said. address for several weeks. On degree. He'll note that in the the final draft of a Bicentennial restricted federal spending, ad­Ford worked several hours in Saturday, while holding a copy last 12 months the rate of in­State of the Union message in ministration sources said. the Oval Office Sunday on the of it, he told reporters, "This is nation has been cut by more which he will say the economy The President will propose a half-hour message he'll deliver the fifth draft, and we're going than one-half, unemployment of the nation is improving as it lean fiscal 1977 budget of $394 to a joint session of Congress to have one more, and that's has declined and industrial out-enters its third century. billion and will ask Congress to and a national television au­it." put is up. 
But in the address, he will tack another $10 billion income dience at 9 p.m. EST Monday. Sources said the President's The President will call on message will call for holding Congress' help to improve theNEA saysyes the line on spending as a first economy in 1976, saying the 
step toward a balanced federal country must have continued budget in three years time. economic growth without in-
Are college boards useless? 
White House officials said the nation and there must be jobs 
by Maureen O'Brien nothing at all or just the G.P.A.," Staff Reporter he added. 

When asked if 46'.% accuracy Are the College Boards, Grad­justifies the tests, Waddick replied, uate Record Exams and standard­"Well, yes. I wonder what other 
ized tests worth the sweat? standards you would use to admit "No," stated Terry Herndon, them to a law school --the size of executive director of the National 
their foot or the length of their Education Association [NEA]. 
hair?" "Standarizcd tests are like a lock Herndon believes that standard­on the mind, a guard at the factory ized tests are creating paranoia in gate,'' Herndon continued. academic circles. Low SAT scores ''The only real beneficiaries, are pointing at teachers to accept aside from the test marketers the blame. themselves, are insecure school 
"In East Whittier, Calif., the 

managers striving for comforts in 
school board instituted dismissal 

their relations with school boards, 
proceedings again 300 teachers,

legislators and governors,'' he 
but withdrew them after the teach­

said. 
ers struck against the standardized 

Robert J. Waddick, asst. dean of 
testing," Herndon said. 

the College of Arts and Letters, 
"Teachers in East Whittier str­

commented on the effectiveness of 
ongly felt that standardized testing 

the college boards and standard­
had come to constitute a serious

ized tests. "Now I wouldn't say 
threat to their ability to perform as 

that all tests results arc 100% 
professionals in the classroom," he 

accurate. Don't get me wrong." 
said. 

"For example," he explained, "law school admission tests results 
Sidney P. Marland,presidency of the College Board, points out in hiscoupled with the student't G.P.A. 

article in College Board News [Jan.

will predict success in the first year of law school about 46% of the '75) that the understanding of the tests' objectives are often miscon­
time." "Of course, that isn't perfect," strued. he said. "However, it's better than "First," Marland said, "let me 

Pittsburgh Celebrates Super Bo'Wl victory 
By LEE GOULD Associated Press Writer 

PITTSBURGH CAP> -The streets of downtown Pittsburgh, deserted during the Super Bowl, overflowed with several thousand jubilant fans Sunday night despite temperatures in the low teens. 
City police, veterans of past victory celebrations here, moved with dispatch to close the downtown area and dis­perse crowds. 
There were at least a dozen arrests as police shoved dis­orderly persons into the backs of police vans. 
At 5 p.m., as the Steelers were clinching their second straight Super Bowl in Miami, downown Pittsburgh was vir­tually empty -except for riot­helmeted police gathered at key intersections. 
By 6 p.m. traffic was bump­
er-to-bumper with horn-blowing 
cars overflowing with cheering 
fans. 
Police moved quickly. 
"Don't let nothing into town," the police dispatcher ordered shortly after 6. "You're a little late,"' an anonymous police offi­cer responded. "That's for sure," another radioed. 
The crowd wasn't deterred by temperatures that hovered around 10 degrees by early eve­ning. 
A largely young crowd of fans quickly formed on Liberty Avenue, the city's major street, shouting "We're Number One," climbing onto light posts and dancing in the street. 
But police brought in snarling dogs and quickly cleared the street, forcing people onto side­walks, where a few lobbed beer · bottles toward patrol cars. Many of the retreating crowd changed their cheers to another 
Steeler ·favorite -"Defense, 
ueu~nse." 
Downtown hotels also were ready for the celebration. The Pittsburgh Hilton was locked to anyone who couldn't produce a room key and registration receipt at the main lobby doors. 
The city is preparing for an­other demonstration Monday ­this one organized. The city has planned a welcome-home pa­rade Monday afternoon when the team returns from Miami. 
~n;;-;s·~··., 
: difference!!! \:,.,.liEI'Oit : e ( T Onr 1!> Jllll •
• M A 
of IIPII•tnct • 
: DAT .,..,':c"' :_ : lSA T s..u~~~~.., ! : G R E •
Wolum1110u1 '-• 
: GMAT ''"";''""'' ! 
: QCA T Courus 1~11 '" •
: (pAT con•I:II'updated : 
• VAT l1pe IKrht•n lor : 
• ,..,.., ol c1n1 •
• SAT 
lessons 1nd lor uu •• FlEX or '""'e"'e"t.,., •
: "''''"''' .
! ECFMG .....:,,tor : 
• mllltd ltiiOftl :
i NAT'l MED BDS : 
• NA T'L DENT BDS • 
• Moll ciOIMI llort 8 Wt!Okl • • pnor to E.1m • • Sprmg & F111 compocu •
• •e
• Some courMa nllor1d on • M110r C1mpu111!1 e 
: INDIANAPOLIS : 
• 6620 Groonahlfe Dflve e e lndllnlpolrl, lnd 46220 e • 13171 842-1267 •
: .........: 
e CHICAGO CENTER • • 13121 764-5151 • 



=~-H.!:

: friPIAN : 
e EDUCATIONAl ClNTfll e 
• fl$f "'f~·IIIIIAhON • 
• .,.CIAliSrs SINC""f •t)\ • 
--·---.........;;j
1:1131UI-... •• .,.,.( .... f'l ....0' u $ ':•l•et 

message will be more upbeat for everyone who wants tosuggest what the SAT is not. It was than Ford's first State of the work.
not designed as a measure of Union message a year ago in Officials said the address willschool performance and should not which he said, "The state of be a broad overview ,of domes­be used that way.'' 
the union is not good." tic and foreign affairs, leaving"Secondly," he added, "the Then he cited problems of specific details to his budgetSAT is not a measure of some energy, employment and the message t.o be unveiledinnate and unchanging quality that economy. Wednesday and subsequent ceo­somehow mystically categorizes The President on Monday will nomic and State of the Worldpeople." 
report many of the same prob-messages.
"It is a measure of developed verbal and mathematical reasoning and abilities,'' he said. 

Nixon, Kissinger tell 
Dr. Grande, asst. dean Fresh­man Year of Studies, points out that the way Graduate Record 

conflicting FBI stories 
Exams and College Board exams N~W YO~K CAP> -.Former Mitchell, it was Nixon who spe­are evaluated determines their Pres!dent R1chard .M. N1xon ap-cifically directed the electronicweight. 
pears to have a different recol-surveillance of four persons"Usually," Grande said, "most lection than Secretary of State who names had been suggestedweight is placed on the quality of Henry Kissinger concerning an by Hoover.
academic work. Secondly, rec­FBI wiretapping oper~tion in Halperin said Sunday that heommendations and activities are 1969, the New York T1mes re-couldn't comment th
considered." ported Sunday . , on e 
"Finally test results are consid­f. L A Times story because of a court
I t 1
n a s ory rom os nge es, order.
ered," he said. 
the paper quoted sources as .
''The only problem with these saying that Nixon told Morton Halperm was one of the f?ur tests occurs when they are misused 
H. Halperin and lawyers for the persons n.amed. at the meetmg --when too much emphasis is American Civil Liberties Union and. he IS .su.mg the former placed on them,~' he added. on Thursday that it was Kissin-prestdent, ~~s.smger, other gov­
If college boards are becoming ger who decided whose tele-ernment offiCials, the FBI and ineffective, it has not been reflect­phones should be tapped in an the Chesapeake and ~otomac ed in their usage, according to attempt to find out who was T~lephone Co,., contendmg that Waddick. leaking information to the Wiretaps are Illegal.
Waddick feels the importance of press. During the Thursday meetingtesting has increased for specific Kissinger has stated that in a with Nixon, sources reported to 
reasons. 
meeting on April 25, 1969, at-The Times, Nixon was relaxed "Grade inflation is one of the tended by him, Nixon, then-FBI and at several points lectured reasons. A 3.0 G.P.A. doesn't director J. Edgar Hoover and his hearers on foreign policymean what it did five years ago,'' then-Attorney General John decisions.
Waddick said. "The Buckley amendment," he 
AUDITIONS for 
added, "where the student has access to his recommendations, has 

~NO ARTHUR MILLER'S 
diminished the quality of recom­mendations." 

SMC THE CRUCIBLE
"The interview has never really been a major factor since a 20 
THE AT RE Sun., Jan 18 at 1 :30P.M. 
minute interview can not determine 

and Mon., Jan 19 at 7:30 P.M.
the character of a person," he continued. 
(callbacks-Tues., Jan 20 at 7:30 P.M.)
"At this rate, all that will be left are the college boards, and that is 


O'LAUGHLIN AUDITORIUM 
why the importance of the testing has increllsed," Waddick conclud­

OPEN TO ALL ND/SMC STUDENTS 
ed. 





Getmore out 
ofyourlast2years

ofcottege. 
If for some reason you missed taking Army ROTC in your first two years of college, you can still take it in your last two. But only if you apply while you're still a sophomore. 
In order to make up for the years you missed, you'll have to attend a special camp in the summer befor~ your junior year. You'll earn up to a total of $2,900 in the Two-Year Program. You'll get some good management experience. And you'll get a commis­sion as an Army officer along with a college degree. 
.--------------------------.
Army ROTC Xc~re Dame, IN 46556 
Please send me more information about the Army ROTC Two-Year Program. 
Ms.

Mr.______________________ 
Address____________________ City_________County__________ State_______Zip_____Phone______ College Attending_________________ Graduation Date __________________ 
@TheAnnyROTC 1Wo-\'earProgram 
"Under ~e authority of Tille 10, USC 2101-2111, your address is needed to provide you materials on the Army ROTC program. Completion of this form Is voluntary. Not completinjl this form will prevent us from mailing you material. Information obtatned will be used for ROTC enrollment1--------..._purposes."____________________________________j 
*~d.QI2~~rver
Founded November 3, 1966 

The Observer is published by the students of the University EDITORIAL BOARD of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. It does not necessarily Teny Keeney Editor-in-Chief reflect the policies of either institution. The news is reported 
AI Rutherford Managing Editor as accurately and objectively as possible. Editorials represent 
Jim Eder ExeaJtive Editor
the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Com­

Pat Hanifin Editorial Editormentaries are the views of individual editors. Opinions. 
Bob Mader News Editor
cartoons and regular columns express the views' of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the Maureen Rynn Campus Editor community, and leHers are encouraged to promote the free Mary Janca St. Mary's Editor expression of varying opinions on campus. Ken Bradford Copy Editor 
Val Zurblis Wire Editor Editorials: 283-1715 News: 283-8661 Business: 283-7471 
Tom O'Neil Features Editor Business Manager Tom Modglin Bill Brink Sports Editor Advertising Manager Tom Whelan Dan Sanchez Senior Night Editor 
Monday, January 19, 1976 

A 
The Game Must End 
let's stop playing games with the academic And most of those who cut on Friday will be able to cut the rest of the week too. Many
calendar. 

The vote in the Academic Council last rmnth professors will not even hold serious classes on 
to schedule classes the day after Thanksgiving Friday. was sudden and ill-conceived. No one has yet But how likely are students to take an entire 
provided a convincing rationale for it. Instead, week at Thanksgiving if they have a week-long a barrage of reasons have been advanced vacation in October? Next year's calendar 
which have hidden the apparent rmtivation of removes the pressing rmtivation for students to skip a week at Thanksgiving because it
the Council. 

H you wade through the rhetoric about the schedules a break at mid-semester. parents who don't want to bring their kids TomoiTOw the Academic Council will re-con­home twice each semester and about having a sider the calendar vote, if 10 members of the calendar with 70 days, you arrive at the real Council sign a petition to place the calendar on reason for the vote: the Academic Council the agenda. So far only six members have wanted to prevent erosion in class attendance signed it and some of the student representa­the week before Thanksgiving.$ tives have not. 
Fr. Hesburgh has claimed that the erosion The calendar vote must be re-considered and was he worst he's ever seen. This erosion was the full Thanksgiving holiday re-instated if for fresh in the mermries of the professors on the no other reason than that the present calendar Council who, just one week after Thanksgiving, so blantantly disregards student opinion and voted to hav~ the Friday class. common sense. 
H tl1t! professors who voted for this class No other issue has so united the student e~ students to actually attend classes body as the opposition to this calendar. Over 
they must have intended to keep many 4,000 student signatures against the calendar students from going home for the holiday. But were collected in just three days. Notre Dame they themselves will spend the holiday with students have not gathered on the steps of the 
their own families. Adminstration Building in such large numbers However, the calendar will not prevent the since the days of the Cambodian invasion. class erosion. In fact, the calendar virtually assures that no one will attend classes Friday. The game must end. 

P.O. Box Q 
principles. when none of our friends will be 
The extra vacation days could be horne. The fact that we've also lest placed .in the second semester. I Thanksgiving isn't important would personally favor taking off either, after all we've still got 70
Masterstroke 

the month of April. In fact, the days without a Saturday involved. Council could move Christmas, the Besides -who likes horne cooked Fourth of July and Veterans Day to turkey anyway? 
Dear Editor: that month. This would also reduce We all know that not having aThe Academic Council is to be the transportation costs to the Saturday class (instead of perhaps congratulated for its courageous 

student body. a Friday( didn't come into con­reappraisal of Thanksgiving. In a Michael Melody sideration. Gee, only 76% favoredmasterstroke of incisive planning, it, right? I think I figured it out, ifthe Council ha not only provided us we never see horne or our friendswith a calendar, but also ridded us we'll love it here much more. That

Thanks Father
of a superfluous national holiday. 

I'll admit is very clever. Well,Hopefully, the Council can cont­thanks Father, maybe we'll see youinue its trend-setting pace by in our rooms next Thanksgiving ­examining the Christmas break. Thank you for the vacation but please don't interrupt ourBy reducing the Christmas holi­break, Fr. Burtchaell; it's some­studying.
day or even eliminating it, the thing we've desperately needed. Council could make an eloquent Don't worry, it doesn't matter that 
Jim Berryman
statement on behalf of Christian the vacation comes at a time Class of'79 
,...-·····-·--.~·•Y•'....... 



r "Sometimes it's tough leading'em to water." 
~ 
r 
DOONESBURY by Garry Trudeau 

good business for CIA 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiart buchwald 
WASHINGTON--Many stories have come our about tL LIA, but this is one that is still buried secretly in the archives. It has to do with an agent named Greensleeves. He was young, energetic and imaginative. The CIA decided to set him up in a souvenir shop across the street from the palace of a South American dictator where he could keep tabs on the comings and goings of government officials. 
They gave him enough money to buy the shop and the souvenirs so the operation would be legitimate. This exchange of cables, after they were decoded, tells the story. 
"CIA Headquarters, Langley: Business excellent. Have sold $16,000 worth of souvenirs thanks to Dictator Tacos three-day anniversary celebration in front of palace. Please tell our people in Taiwan I need more Tacos ashtrays, paperweights and letter openers. If all right with you, am planning a sale on Dictator Tacos music boxes that play 'South of the Border' .--Greensleeves." "Green~leeves: Paella, South Arned~a:Giad to hear you are doing well busmessw1se, but what the hell Is going on at the palace? We hear Tacos may be overthrown by right-wing colonels. Please advise at once.--Frogrnaster." 
"CIA Headquarters, Langley: Sorry I have been too busy taking inventory to pay much attention to palace but good news. Discovered a factory outside Siesta that makes cuckoo clocks and hand-painted scarves. Have bought three gross at half-price. Expect sales figures in June up 20 percent over May. Had to pay off customs to get cigarette lighters mto country, but will add bribe to price of itern.--Greensleeves." 
"Greensleeves, Paella, South America: Why no word from you on Tacos assassination attempt and his exile from country? Who is in charge of Paella? Urgently need list of junta and whether it's pro-or anti-Arnerican.--Frogrnaster." 
"CIA Headquarters, Langley: Agency has nothing to fear from Tacos overthrow. I got wind of it two weeks ago and had Tacos Birthday Sale oin Saturday, where I marked down all Dictator Tacos items 50 percent. The bronze busts moved especially well as did Tacos pillowcases. We also unloaded 4,000 plates with portraits of Mrs. Tacos. Only item that didn't sell as well as expected was night light of Tacos standing next to Virgin Mary. But I plan to remove Tacos and just sell them as Virgin Mary night lights. Tell our Hong Kong people that I am sending them photograph of Colonel Chili which I would like then to have framed with sea shells. Also need 3,000 beer mugs commemorating the junta's revolution of July 5. By the way, tell our Hong Kong man to check packing. The ashtrays they sent carne in all damaged. Am seeing insurance company tornorrow--Greensleeves.'' 
"Greensleeves, Paella, South America: What information do you have conerning naval attack on Paella by neighboring country of Enchilada? Understand shelling destroyed half of downtown as well as Soviet, British, French and Chinese ernbassies.--Frogrnaster" 
"CIA Headquarters, Langley: Your information correct. I heard about it 10 days ago from Enchilada defector and moved all breakable items to the basement. Also boarded up windows. You'll be happy to know we had the only souvenir shop in Paella that opened for business the next day. Since the invasion started I have added a toy line with tanks, soldiers, missiles and fighter planes. Believe they will be big sellers. Took it on myself to give 10 percent discount to any Paella soldier or sailor in uniform. Have also ordered music boxes which say 'Mother' on the top in Spanish. Understand Mother items sell well in time of war." 
"Greensleeves, Paella, South America: What has happened to 
U.S. ambassador? Is he being held hostage by revolutionary urban guerillas as reported by AP* UPI, Reuters and Agence France Presse?" 
"CIA Headqurters, Langley: U.S. ambassador was kidnaped three days ago. Qne of my salespeople has a brother who told her about kidnaping plans last week. I immediately took steps to check his charge account. He owed us $89. On a ruse that we were collecting accounts receviable early this year, I managed to get his check before he was grabbed. We haven't lost a dime on him. Any chance of shipping Fidel Castro coffee mugs? They're expecting 15,000 male Cuban tourists, and it could be a big item this summer." 

'.' 

. :' .. , ' .. 

Production workers 
Reporters 


Layout specialists Writers Artists & Cartoonists 
and other crazies of various talents 
Drop by the Observer office (top floor -LaFortune) Between 7 S 9 PM 
Tonight thru Thurs. night or call Terry at 1715 



. ·'· 



6 the observer Monday, January 19, 1976 
Promise jobs for all 

Democrats see unemployment as big issue 
A government guarantee of a money for someone working Gov. Terry Sanford and Sen. ence" in political philosophy excellent, although he suffered job to every American was ad­than not working," commented Henry M. Jackson of Washing­between President Ford and chest pains recently and was vocated Sunday by four Demo­Sen. Lloyd M. Bentsen of ton as the four appeared on the former California governor. hospitalized. He has received a cratic presidential hopefuls, Texas. NBC's "Meet the Press" broad­
clean bill of health, he said.
each indicating that unemploy­Approval of the guaranteed cast from Washington. But Reagan has the unique Jackson said he feels detentement will be a major campaign jobs concept was also voiced by In Sacramento, Calif., Ronald ability to go over the heads of should be a major issue, with
Rep. Morris K. Udall of Ari­Reagan's campaign manager Democrats in control of Con­
issue. 

the United States using its eco­"I'd rather spend taxpayers zona, former North Carolina said there is "no major differ-gress and use television to get nomic power to keep the Soviethis views to the public, Sen. 
Union out of Angola.

Paul Laxalt of Nevada added in 
a speech before California Re­Not just the grain sales to publican leaders. Russia, but technology and oth­
Festival speakers announced er items should be considered Howard "Bo" Callaway, means of pressure too, he said. 
Ford's campaign chairman,
by Manreen Flynn published a book, Three on the Fri., February 20. Penn Warren He said he supports a strong
also appeared Saturday before
Campus Editor Tower, on the works of T.S. Eliot, has written two volumes of poetry, defense, although such unneces­
the same group of GOP volun­
Ezra Pound, and Carlos Williams. nine novels (including the best-sell­sary items as $7 billion• for a
teers and told them the Presi­
Sophomore Literary Festival On Thurs., February 19, May ing All the King's Men) and two supersonic bomber should be
dent's State of the Union mes­
Committee Chair Michelle Quinn Sarton will present readings from studies of race relations, as well as cut. 
sage Monday may not soundannounced yesterday that five her poetry and prose works and short stories and historical essays. 
dynamic, but that it will make Jackson also reiterated his 
authors have accepted invitations open herself to questions from the His latest book of poetry is entitled opposition to forced busing for
a lot of sense. 

! 
to appear at the festival, Feb. audience. Sarton has written sever-Or Else. 
racial integration, saying a bet­15-21, 1976. Quinn expects to have Gallway Kinnell, poet and fict­Callaway and Laxaltboth pre­ter solution should be found. 
a final list of guest speakers by the ionist, will appear at the Festival dicted victory in the same ear­Udall said he would seek toend of the week. Those who have 

Sat., February 21. Kinnell is per­ly Republican primaries. bring the races together to
accepted and the dates of their 

presentations follow. 
haps best known for his poem In the television appearance work out a solution. But he crit­
"Avenue Bearing the Initial of
Poet Robert Hass will appear Bentsen said his first priority ized Jackson's plan that a 
Christ in the New World" and the
! \
Tues., February 17. Hass, profes­as president would be getting three-judge panel be required
volume of poetry by the same title. 
sor of English at the University of people back to work. What the before busing can be imposed,t California at Berkeley, is a one­He appeared this summer at a noting that all busing orders
people are really looking for, 
time winner of the Yale Younger poetry festival in Michigan and left he said, is a return to self-con­have been appealed to such 
a teaching position in Vermont to• fidence. panels, and have been upheld.
Poet Series Award. This prize is 

take up residence in New York. 
given to talented poets under 40 Udall predicted that the 1970s
"Our hope is not a prolonged He added that he would move 
years of age who have not yet and 1980s will be years of
lecture series, nor a teamed con­to moderate interest rates for 
published a book. Hass' subse­change with the end of cheap
ference," Quinn said. "Our hope is individuals and small business­
quent volume of poetry is entitled land, cheap timber and cheap
a holiday, a holiday wherein peo­men and proposed a tax credit 
Field Guide. al collections of poetry and a energy.
ple, human fragilities, gather to for hiring the unemployed.
Louis Simpson, official poet for number of novels, including AS We celebrate. We celebrate the works, Sanford added that he would Americans will have to movethe U.S. Congress will appear Are Now and Kinds of Love. She is the persons, and the times togeth­seek action to improve neigh­into an era in which their livesWed., February 18. Simpson, a also known for her books on borhoods through housing and
er," she said. are different, recycling items,
Pulitzer prize-winner, has publish­fulfilling lifestyles for the indepen­rent subsidies. 
Wayne Smith, spokesman for ............................... 
defense attorneys Albert John­son and F. Lee Bailey, said in a telephone interview from Bos­ton, Mass., that the motions 

Come You Fightin' Irish will seek to prevent Dr. Harry Kozol from conducting further psychiatric examinations of Miss Hearst "based on infor­
TO TOWN &COUNTRY
mation regarding his back­ground." 
He refused to elaborate, say­

·FOR YOUR FAVORITE
ing only: "The motions will be based on Kozol 's background and why the prosecution se­lected him. I think you're going to see a lot of surprises." 

WINES-LIQUORS
The motions will be filed Monday or Tuesday, he said. Neither Johnson nor Bailey 

Both Stores Open Nights 'til 11 PM 
were available for comment. 
The defense last week sought to remove Kozol from the case, claiming he had bullied Miss 

LIQUOR -WINE Hearst to tears during question­ing. Kozol denied the allega­
tion, saying "I was gentle." 10% DISCOUNT WITH ND-SMC 1.0.
U.S. District Court Judge Oli­ver Carter on Friday ordered that she either undergo further 

BEER· BEST PRICE IN TOWN
questioning or face sanctions. While the motions are being VOLUME DISCOUNT
decided, Johnson said his de­fense team has three options: 

FREE DELIVERY
"The first option being to ap­

WE'RE
peal the judge's ruling to the 

9th Circuit Court of Appeals; FREE 
the second option being to re­DELIVERY
BEHIND 
fuse to allow Dr. Kozol to ex­
amine and allow the court to 

THE
impose sanctions, (which we 
think) is unconstitutional." 

IRISH 
Those sanctions could include a court order preventing the defense from using psychiatric testimony if the prosecution is prevented from using its own psychiatrist, he said. 
"The third option would be to 
. . ' . . . ' "" ) ' " . .. .......
~ 

ed volumes of poetry and edited a dent single woman (Journal of a "It is not merely for students, poetry anthology used in many Solitude). artists and faculty," Quinn contin­college English courses, including Robert Penn Warren, the only ued. ''The hope is in the meeting of some at Notre Dame. He is also a American to win Pulitzer prizes in us all, the meeting of another's joy, literary critic and most recently both poetry and fiction, will appear sorrow and dailiness." 
In Hearst case 

La'Wyers to challenge analyst 
SAN FRANCISCO <AP) allow Dr. Kozol to go back in restrictions he might seek. Attorneys for Patricia Hearst and interview Miss Hearst," Miss Hearst is scheduled to will challenge the "professional Johnson said. "We think that is stand trial Jan. 26 on charges 
_·redibility" of a prosecution a possibility, but we would ask stemming from the April 1974 psychiatrist who has been ex­for certain restrictions on that Hibernia Bank robbry in San amining her, a defense team type of visit." Francisco by the Symbionese representative said Sunday. Johnson did not specify what Liberation Army. 
being more thrifty and devel­And Sanford said his health is oping a just society, he said. 


MACRAME BEADS 
& SUPPLIES 
10% OFF WITH THIS AD 
TILL JAN 18TH.
SMAC~~­

town & country " 2340 miracle lane shopping center mishawaka, indiana 46544 219 I 256-0111
• 


Monday, Janurt 19,1976 the observer 
~----------------~~~~~~~~----~
Occupied with own troubles 
Europe views Angolan war with concern 
Associated Press ficially neutral, but the foreign wait-and-see stance (even Swe­Ia. China has backed the anti· as a recognized and integral minister has expressed support den, which once helped fund MPLA liberation front, called part of their political system.
Western European govern· 
for the Soviet-backed Popular the MPLA, has not yet recog­the National Front for the Lib· Portugal a week ago formed
ments are consistently ex­
Movement for the Liberation of nized it> the war is fueling de­eration of Angola (FNLA), but a new economic cooperation in­pressing concern over the An­Angola <MPLA), now in the as­bate among politicans and its support has slacked off in stitute to negotiate with formergola war and deploring all for­cendancy. newspapers -mostly along recent months. colonies and "activate and save
eign intervention, but none 
A sampling of government predictable lines: Although Portugal, Germany, Portuguese public and privateseems disposed to do much and press opinion indicates The Rome Communist paper Belgium and Britain -and to interests in the new nations."
about it. 
most West European countries Unita headlined: "Kissinger at­a lesser extent other European In Britain, Julian Amery, an Several European countries see the conflict as a great pow· tempts to involve NATO in An­countries -have economic influential Conservative and a 
are preoccupied with crises at er affair -a threat to detente gola war," while the con­stakes in Angola's oil, agricul­former deputy foreign minister, home -such as Communist· and the U.S.-Soviet power bal· servative West German Die ture and mineral industries, denounced the Labor govern­anti-Communist struggles in ance, rather than a direct men· Welt urged more U.S. in­analysts point out that they do ment in a speech for doing 
Italy and Portugal and Brit· ace to their own national inter· volvement and declared "it is not necessarily stand to lose ev­nothing to counter the threat of ain's sectarian feud in Northern ests. ironic but true that South Af. erything with an MPLA victo· "a fatal blow to the European Ireland. The independent Paris daily rica ... is the only hope now for ry. pro-Soviet left-wing parties economy." 
In Portugal, which dropped Le Monde reflected the views black Africans who do not want its former West African colony of many in saying the war to be ruled by Moscow." in November, observers report would be resolved at the United In Communist Albania, general relief-as in post-Viet­Nations "or most likely in aligned with China, the quasi­
Arn1ory dance Friday
nam America -and worries washington and Moscow -in official newspaper Bashkimi about 300,000 homeless and job· any case, outside the black con· called both the United States less returnees. 
tinent itself." and the Soviet Union "imperial­
by Phil Cackley people from driving," Smouse
The Lisbon government is of-While governments take a ist wolves" fighting over Ango-
Staff Reporter said. 
Buses will leave the Armory

Molesters spared The Student Union will sponsor a beginning at 12:00 and will make second Armory Dance Friday Jan­stops at St. Mary's and the Campus uary 23 following the theme "Brew View Apartments in addition to the 'n Bruins" to honor the basketball main circle.
Prisons halt shock treatment 
game against UCLA on Saturday, Along with the free beer, soft Social Commissioner Kathy Smou­drinks and pretzels, hot dogs will
HARTFORD, Conn. (AP) -lures of children, interspersed suited in the group's dropping Prison officials, under an with erotic pictures. Each time of a suit against the state cor· se revealed yesterday. be on sale. Five cents from the sale 
agreement with the American a picture of a child was shown rections department, wasn't the The dance will be held Friday of every hot dog will be donated to Civil Liberties Union, have the inmate was given a shock only reason for dropping the night from 9 p.m. to 1 a.m. at the the Dance Marathon for the Na­
stopped a program in which in the groin area. program. He said the two em­South Bend Armory. There will be tional Association for the Retarded electrical shocks were given to ployes who directed the pro­free beer, soft drinks, and pretzels to be sponsored by the ND Social inmates convicted of child mo­State Correction Commission­gram left. provided as well as a group Commission March 26-28. 
lesting. er John R. Manson said Sunday "Fawn" from Chicago. Ticket stubs from the Armoryhe "shudders to hear the term Meanwhile, traditional psy­
Tickets go on sale Wednesday at Dance will allow the holder to get
chotherapy is being used by the
Under the two-year-old pro­'electrical shock treatment' be· the Student Union ticket office and into Mardi Gras free on Wed. 
gram, which corrections offi· cause it sounds like the strong department, Manson said. 
certain dorm lobbies at St. Mars. February 4. cials said was highly success­shocks given mental patients." But he added, new staffers The cost is three dollars per ticket. Smouse said the 900 tickets for ful, prisoners were shown pic-The child molester treatment is have been hired and a similar Sales will be limited to 900 tickes the last Armory Dance sold out in 
equivalent only to two penlight 

program is under considera­and it is neccessary to present a one and a half days and advised batteries, he said. 
tion. He did not reveal specifics Notre Dame or St. Mary's ID to anyone interested in the dance to He also said that only one of about the program but said it purchase a ticket. get tickets "as soon as possible."
Lebanon Moslem 
•.he 20 inmates who underwent would include electrical shocks. All persons going to the dance She said the band also played at the the shock treatment before must ride the buses provided by Senior Armory Party and would
The ACLU had filed suit
being paroled has been re· the Student Union to the Armory. provide "better music than the
retires from post against the program on behalf
turned for a similar conviction. This is to protect the Student band at the last Armory Dance."
of three Somers state prison in­
Uniuon which is taking sole re· Smouse described the dance as a
BEIRUT, Lebanon CAP) -"A person has received the mates who were denied parole sponsibility for the dance. Buses "pre-game get-together being held Premier Rashid Karami, Leba­treatment only after he had after refusing to undergo the will be leaving from the main circle in honor of the game" against
non's top Moslem officeholder, shock treatment. Under the
reached repeater stage," he 

starting at 8:30 p.m. and running UCLA on Saturday Jan. 24. She
resigned Sunday after both agreement the suit was dis­
said. "Only a multi-child moles­

until 9z;30 p.m. commented that Dean of Students
sides ignored his latest cease­missed without prejudice.
ter was given the treatment. 

Persons attending the dance will James Roemer was present at thefire caJI and escalated fighting First offenders were not given Under the agreement state have their tickets taken at the main Armory Dance held last fall andin the civil war. 
the treatment." 

prison officials will notify the circle and will have their hands sent a letter to the Student Union"I have to announce that the Manson said that the agree· ACLU if they intend to reinsti­stamped. This is the only way that complimenting them on how well itgovernment has no more effec· ment with the Connecticut tute the program, according to persons can obtain admittance to was run. "We're hoping this onetiveness. Ail the doors to peace have been slammed," the nine· branch of the ACLU, which re-ACLU. the dance. "The stamp will keep will turn out as well," she added. 
time premier told the nation in an emotional broadcast. 
"My  efforts  to  find  a  solution  
have  gone  with  the  wind,"  he  
said.  

The 53-year-old millionaire bachelor from -l<fripoli said he was passing responsibility for the country to President Sulei­man Franjieh, a Christian, "to take whatever steps he thinks proper." 
There was no immediate in· dication what Franjieh would do. 
Karami, who issued more than a dozen cease-fire calls dring the past seven months, repeated his stand that the Lebanese armed forces should be kept out of the fight. 
Education needed 
<continued from page I ) 
and experts on hunger. 
''The conference served to estab­lish lines of communication be­tween campuses across the coun­try, Brinegar stated. Gramels­pacher, AI Sondej and Professor Basil O'Leary who teaches the course "Food, Violence, Energy and Population Control" also at­tended. 
"We found Notre Dame had quite a reputation as being one of the leaders in organized campus and community action for hunger," Brinegar added. 
The conference focused on four main areas: research priorities, curiculum development, commun­ity and personal action, and politi­cal action, according to Gramels­pacher. 
Hesburgh closed his speech, "I am an optimist. I believe enought food can be grown to feed the world. But we who've been blessed the most probably have to work the hardest." 
lassified Ads------­
NOTICES 

IBM Selectric II typing, student rates, St. Mary's needs a new editor for the Henke Ski boots, size 8, good condition. 
dissertations, Linda's Letters. 289·5193 1977 yearbook. If interested in appJy. Call Ray. 1754. ing, please send resume to Dr. Mary Alice Cannon; LeMans Hall, SMC; by 
For home delivery of the Chicago Monday, Jan. 26. 
COUCHES $20·30. Free delivery to Tribune call Bill, 8659. 
dorm. Call Mrs. Cooper, 272·3004. 
Need 4th roommate, Campus View 
FOR RENTWill do typing, experienced. Term Apts. 272·6639, student preferred. papers, manuscripts, etc. Call 233·85 12 Rent my upstairs, $50 per month,

UCLA tickets, Joe or Marty 287·5113. LOST AND FOUND 233·1329. 
Need 2 UCLA tix. Call Frank 1589. Lost: calculator. checkbook, other Items 
Country house for rent, very reasonable of value in plastic box in back of 
twelve minutes travel, 233·2613. Stanford. PLEASE call 8739. PERSONALS 
House tor rent, partially furnished, WANTED extremely reasonable 287·7018 or 233· 
2613. means more than the 2nd Anniversary Female housemate wanted to share of defeating UCLA house 2'14 blocks from Angela Notre 
Love understands, love waits. The 19th 
Rent my upstairs $50. 233·1329, Patty Dame Ave. Intersection. Call 289·4303 between 5 P.M. and 10 P.M. Second Floor Stanford welcomes Beth 
Available now. Large furnished houseWenk with open arms. 
suitable for 5 students. $200 per month. Desperately need Marquette tickets. 
All utilities included. Call 289·8262 or 234·2212.
Call Mike 8720. John P. I love you. Namaste. Diane c. 
For rent: large house, 1 acre, 5 min. walk to N.D. 4 beds available. 701 St. 
Transfer student needs basketball 

season ticket. Call 1081, ask for Kent. My foxy matmaid in 310, it has been a 
Vincent; leave name and number at
beautiful year but it is only the 
0 bserver office.
beginning for us. Je t'aime W obbie. Need 4 tickets to Maryland game. Call Mike after 6 P.M. 288.0088. 
Must sublet, spacious, one.bedroom
FOR SALE 
Crestwood Apt. price negotiable. 277· Need 2 tickets to Maryland. Call 1633. 
0648. 

Your kind of people Serious high-fidelity sound systems to Lost: a blue striped flannel sh lrt with a
2 UCLA tlx needed, student or GA call 
keep you loose, yet at a price that won't 
new pair of glasses In the pockets nearJoe 3689. 
get you up tight. Stereo Components, 
the ACC, Thursday afternoon, Jan. 
20114 ·40lf4 discount, RMS Audio, 321 S. 
Uth. Reward. Call 287·0076. 
Main, South Bend, Ind. 
Wanted 2 UCLA tlx and any number Marquette tlx. Call John 8168. 


the observer 

Irish win scuffle with Xavier 90-79 
by Rich Odioso Williams became embroiled in a frief shoving and shouting match as 
Xavier's Dale Haarman was a they went after a rebound. Baker can of gasoline looking for a match tried to blow smoke in reporters' Saturday. And when he finally faCES after the game struck a spark on his third try he claiming one of the Musket­ignited a fire that placed the eer guards had been at issue, but Notre Dame-Xavier basketball Duck was sure of his man. "It was series in jeopardy. the same guy that messed with 
Four minutes into the second Bruce," he contended after the half of Notre Dame's eventual game. 90-79 victory before 5,250 at the Seconds before halftime Haar­Cincinnati Gardens. Haarman and man cleared a rebound, in the ND's Bruce Flowers squared off in process laucnhing a vicious elbow a shoving match that cleared the that came within a Trac-II shave of Xadcr bench and drew angry Dave Batton. There were no fouls words fnm, Notre Dame Coach called on either play. Digger Phelps. wearing a live The Haarman-Flowers incident television microphone. . brought Phelps to his feet. He 
With the Irish leading SJ-31 complained to Baker about the '-"lowers rejected a Haarman shot Xavier team leaving the bench and, ,, nd the two players frantically with the memory of the five stitches d1asccl the ball out of bounds to the and broken nose that Adrian Dant-Xa\ icr bench. It was the;e that lev suffered against Xavier last Haarman continuted to lean on y~ar still fresh. turned his national-Flowers long after the loose ball at ly heard comments to Musketeer issue was forcing him down onto Athletic Director Jim McCafferty. the Musketeer benchwarmers. "I'm not putting up with any more 
Flowers angrily pushed Haarman's of this. I've had it. I'm pulling my A few glaring looks IM!re not all that IM!re exchanged bef\wen Notre ~me's Bruce Rowers and Xaviers' ~le arm away and the two squared off. kids out of here," Phelps said. But Haanmn in the Irish's 90-79 victory Saturday. (Rlofo by E'd BroiM!r). "It wasn't much of a fight," said after each player had been assess-A stone-faced Baker seemed not participants." 
entertaining during the scuffle and
th N t e D f hman fte ed a flagrant technical foul and L t · 11 th ff1 e f
e or arne res a r-h disturbed by the chastisement he'd os m a e scu e was 0 n o when commenting on the numer­wards, "Just a couple of shoves, no ejected from the game the Iris d · h b Dantley's best efforts of the se­
received unng t e game y ous whistles." He's the best player
punches." There wasn't much resumed play. h 1 "N D · ason. A.D. tossed in 35 points
There Was no Pullout but in the P e ps. otre arne Is a great in the nation, these people come to
talke either. "He said something t d h ld b h' h including 14 of 21 marksmanship
did not earn an s ou e 1g er-see him and they call things likelocker afterward Phelps
about my ancestry that's all." k d d D' Ph 1 · f from the floor, a number from 
Sound Sure about the Contl·nuation ran e an 1gger e ps IS one o that," he said, "Let them play."
remembered Flowers. Haarman th fi t h · th t " further out than usual. Dantley
es 111

of the series booked for several e mes coac e coun ry • There were some other encour­
was kept incommunicado after the he preambled, "but its not fair to also cleared 11 rebounds and aging signs for the Irish who move 
game by Xavier Coach Tay Baker. more years. "All I saw was h turned in a fine defensive job on
Xavier's bench emptying," Digger point the finger at me, t ere were into the meat of the home schedule It was the game's third contro-stated, ''You don't need that kind two teams involved and two players three different Musketeer players. starting Saturday. Bill Paterno hit versial incident and all centered on ejected." I don't think our players Xavier hung close at 25-22 until 
from outside with consistency forHaarman, a basketball vagabond of thing in college basketball. Here h d b · 1 · th b h A.D. spurred a 12-0 Irish blitz that
· t0 t a any usmess eavmg e enc the first time this year scoring 11 
who started his career at Mississi-two sc_hools are trymg ~e although 1 will defend them in that helped Notre Dame to a 42-29 points and played aggressive de­ppi State. With two minutes left in s_omet~mg sta_rt~d .~nd somethmg they were there as protectors and halftime lead. The Irish continued fense. Dave Batton hit only two of
the first half Haarman and Duck hke this can kill It. on after intermission to a 28-point ten shots but had a strong floor 
.t Wl.tll Ml.chl.gan 
76-48lead with seven minutes left. game with nine rebounds and four 
At that point Notre Dame forgot assists. Duck Williams and Bern­
lce~s Spll 

about defense and allowed the 
ard Rencher each had an impres­Musketeers to outscore them 31-14 
by Chip Scanon usual heroics between the pipes Moore, -the Irish could do no harm. sive flurry during the second half. 
the rest of the way. Nick Daniels
stopping 11 Irish drives. But But unlike the beliefs of the IRISH ITEMS -Randy Haefner 
and Gary Whitfield accounted for
Some nights you have it and someone forgot to tell the Irish that Michigan rooters Robbie Moore made the trip to his hometown and 
20 of these points as Xavier made
some nights you don't. Friday they were supposed to roll over and showed that there is a human side scored three points for his family night Notre Dame's hockey team play dead after the initial Michigan to him, his glove side. Paul Clarke the final score respectable. and friends...Irish alumni at the capitalized on the brilliant goal­goal. stepped around a Wolverine de­The game was low-lighted by 61 game included Bob Arnzen and tending of sophomore Lenny Mo­The middle period resulted in a fender and rifled a shot to ruin turnovers about evenly divided Greg Collins. . . Dantley is now her enroute to a 4-3 overtime draw, a bit of foreshadowing as to Moore's shut-out at 19:24. This between teams. Referees Buehl averaging 28.8 points per game on victory over Michigan's Wolver-how regulation would end up. was the lift the Irish needed going Roach and Ron Feiereisel seemed .608 shooting from the floor. . ines. Dave DeBol, another one of the fine into the locker room, that they especially enraptured with Dan­
.A.D. may pass Tom Hawkins andUnfortunately their luminence sophomores who are raising eye­could solve Robbie Moore. And tley, calling A.D. for numerous 
move into second place on the was short-lived as Michigan crush· brows in the WCHA, converted on from there on in solve him they did. traveling violations, although few school scoring list before the month ed the Irish leers 10-3 in a power play goal with 5:03 gone in After Dave DeBol beat Len were obvious. "They were watch­
an is out. ..the Irish host St. Joseph's
embarassing 60 minutes for Lefty the middle stanza. Don Jackson Moher on a breakaway with 0:57 ing his head fakes instead of his oflndiana Wednesday night in oneand Co. on Saturday. was serving time for interference at gone in the third period and things feet," Phelps explained afterward. 
final prepatory game for nextMichigan's blueliners jumped to the time and it looked like this was looked bleak for an Irish comeback. 
Digger was wired for sound duri­
• an early lead at 2:38 of the first going to be a costly one for Notre But some teams just don't know week's three-game siege. Nation­
ng the game and the experiment
period Friday when Pat Hughes Dame. when to quit. ally ranked UCLA, DePaul and 
drew rave reviews from most that
beat Moher around a congested Maryland all inva'Cte the ACC in an
Then things looked like they Kevin Nugent snuck a Brian watched. Phelps was especially eight-day span.
crease that resembled the cafeteria were going to turn around for the Walsh rebound into the net and 
on steak night. Hughes flipped a "Luckless Irish." Two Michigan things started to fall into place for 
:""W'!-­
rebound past the sliding Irish penalties gave ND a two man Lefty's leers. Then less than seven 
netter to draw first blood for the 

advantage but Robbie moore was minutes later Brian Walsh was in Wolves. playing like three men. Along with the thick of things again. 
All-American Robbie Moore some slick penalty killing the Irish This time he was assistingmade the lead stand up with his never got rolling and thanks to blueliner Paul Clarke on his second goal of the night. All it took was a
• 
-.s...•a:..•IIE 
low drive to Moore's left and the game was in overtime. In overtime the story again was
I the goaltending until Terry Fair­holm won it for the Irish after Mark Olive and Geoff Collier lead the charge into the Michigan net, both picking up an assist on the play. 
Saturday night the Irish had momentum on their side, but maybe what they needed was a few recruits from the touring Russian Army. John Peterson was in the nets for the Irish but he was probably wishing that he was in Siberia. 
Seven unanswered goals -told the story for the ill-fated skaters. It wasn't that Notre Dame was that bad, it was that Michigan was that good. Some unbelievable tip-ins around the net, including a hat­trick performance by Dave DeBol, left John Peterson shell-shocked after two periods he readily gave way to Lenny Moher. But by then the Irish were hopelessly out of the game and could have packed their bags for home. 
Kevin Nugent and Terry Fair­holm were able to get on the board for Notre Dame but it didn't matter at that point. Robbie moore had won the return match and left 
NO's Teny Filirholm got the game-winner in the Irish's 4-3 CM!I'fime victory The Irish's Adrian I:Brtley had a few SCDring punches of his O'tNr1 -35 points
the Irish a long four hour ride for 
over Michigan Friday night. v.orth to be exact. (Rloto by E'd Br'oYRr).
their trouble. 




-
-~-~-~-~~-----~~~­








