
server 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's 
Vol. XI No. 54 Tuesday, November 23, 197& 

By Farley resident 
Peeping Toms discovered 
by Marion Ulclny door shut while Peggy went and got entrance to Farley. Pears respond­Staff Reporter Security." ed, "I have no idea. Thev made According to Arthur Pears, di­deliveries \n tlie hall. so I -a~~umc rector of security, little official they werf; let in." He added. "I information can be released con­would think they could get in an~ 
Two juvenile peeping Toms were cerning the boys since they are time they want on a Sunday discovered Sunday morning in both juveniles. No formal charges afternoon.·· Farley by Tracey Kee, hall presi­were made. "The standard proce­Kee did not feel the incident wa.., dent. dure for juveniles is that they're serious. "We were pretty scared 
According to Kee, she had gone turned over to their parents," there for a minute." she admitted. downstairs at approximately ll am Pears stated. adding. "But it was really pretty to empty her trash. When she When asked how the boys gained funny." entered the room containing the trash chutes, she smelled cigarette smoke and noticed the side door. usually kept closed, was ajar. Glancing behind the open door. she saw a tennis shoe and blue jeans. 
Two paperboys had entered the crawl space connecting the trash room to the wall behind a bath­room. Kee stated. By standing on the pipes. they were able to look into the bathroom through two small screens in the wall. 
After discovering the boys, Kee left the room and closed the outer door. She contacted Jean Smetana and Peggy Fahrenbach, two Farley by Maureen O'Brien things Christians can do about this resident assistants. Fahrenbach Staff Reporter fast. Or, instead of fasting, took her trash down to the chutes Christians can give away their as a pretense. When they reached 
Last night, Fr. James T. plenty. Another thing Christians the room, the crawl space door was Burtchaell, provost of the Univer­can do is give thanks," he added. closed. sity reminded the participants of Fr. Burtchaell continued, saying "We figured they had either left the Thanksgiving liturgy at Sacred that by giving thanks for food and or shut the door," Kee stated. Heart Church that they should blessing it, people ackniwledge "Then ~ heard rustling, so we "thank God for their plenty" yet where there resources come from. knew somebody was still there. remember that "Thanksgiving is as And in giving thanks to God for Peggy shouted, 'is anyone in good a time as any to meditate such things as food and other there?' and there was some more about world hunger." resources, Christians can help to noise, so Jeannie and I held the 
Fr. Burtchaell concelebrated the "render the world holy." Mass with about 25 other priests "Who is to say America is a fully from the Notre Dame community. land?" Fr. Burtchaell continued. Fr. Hesburgh was supposed to be "Maybe it is a famished land. the main celebrant, but was called Maybe our spirits are withered,'' 
Ban on aerosols approved
to Washington on business. he added. 
During the homily, Fr. Burtchaell ''Tonight we come soberly to pointed out that there was a give thanks. And that food, if we WASHINGTON AP • The Consu­Council. humans. "confusing ambiguity about a mass thank God for it, has the ability to mer Product Safety Commission It was understood that the action The commission's reported ac­
concerned with thanksgiving and nourish our spirit. Nothing we do tentatively approved on Monday a would not be made final pending tion came at a time when it was world hunger." produces any blessing of ours ban of flourocarbon propellants in several procedural steps, including already clear that the days of 
"How can we be celebrating without His doing," Fr. Burtchaell aerosol products, sources said. coordination with the Environmen· fluorocarbon sprays were num­plenty and grieving over want?" concluded. About half of the aerosols now on tal Protection Agency. bered. The EPA as well as the Fr. Burtchaell began. Letters written by concerned the market, including virtually all The vote to remove fluorocar­Food and Drug Administration 
"The situation of ourselves is administrators, faculty and stu­hair sprays and deodorants, con­bons from the marketplace was were also considering banning the one of plenty, yet there are people dents to president-elect Carter and tain fluorocarbons. based primarily on the fears of items. who want, people whose babies to congressmen regarding the im­The agency's decision was not environmental scientists that the However, it was a surprise that wither from hunger. Our plenty plementation of the World Food immediately announced publicly. products eventually could cause the consumer agency proceeded on comes from their want," he said. Reserve Program were then pre­However, one high source on the irreparable damage to the atmo· its own to set a ban in motion. 
''The problem is the plenty of sented at the offertory. panel said it had voted five to zero sphere' ozone layer, which protects Most observers believed it would our country comes from other The University chorus sang at in closed session to effectively the earth from ultraviolet radiation. simply pass the issue to the EPA. countries in the world who yield the liturgy and were accompanied approve a petition for the ban filed Such radiation, is unshielded, Less than a week ago, a private their resources to us. One of the by the organ and trumpet soloists. by the Natural Resources Defense could produce skin cancer in survey firm hired by the commis­
sion reported that six out of ten

Offenders apprehended American consumers favored the removal of fluorocarbon aerosols from the market once those inter­viewed were informed of the envir­
Student accosted near LeMans 
onmental dangers. 

by Marti Hogan with the knife told her not to because all the kids were waiting "Three .~i' four security guards Moreover, that report said, 66.4 St. Mary's Editor scream or he would cut her for her,' Kovatch explained. "She handcuffed the three men and percent of the national sample said throat." said if she didn't get there soon, brought them to the office where they would not be bothered at all to A Saint Mary's student was Kovatch explained that they they would start looking for her." the student identified them as her get along without the fluorocarbon accosted last Saturday night at wanted to force her into the car and assailants," Kovatch said. products, even though they are so
According to Kovatch the stu­approximately 11:45 p.m. by three take her off campus. As they were dent invited the man to the party. Searching the car, security found common among personal care and 
white males on the road near Lake trying to drag her into the car. two the "ring" under the front seat but household items. 
''Evidently he was impressed with 


Marian. The student escaped other St. Mary's students walked did not find the knife. "Evidently
her sincerity,'' Kovatch remarked. 
injury and the three offenders were up the road. they got scared and got rid of the
"He said he wouldn't hurt her and 
apprehended by St. Mary's secur­The third male, who was still in knife," Kovatch said.
that he only came because theity soon after the incident. ~ the car, "said something like 'on The three males, ages 22, 17 andother two wanted to." She thenAccording to Anthony Kovatch, the sidewalk' referring to the two 16 are from the South Bend area.
gave him a "phony" telephonesecurity director, the student had girls," Kovatch stated. The man Kovatch checked with city andnumber and said she would go outleft the Notre Dame hockey game holding the knife got back into the county police and found the oldestwith him sometime. The man saidearly and was walking home alone. car, but the other man remained has a record and is currently onhe would call her and got back into ''She was coming up the main drive with the student. 
"court parole" for theft. The 16
the car.
and just turned toward LeMans While the two girls were "in year old has a juvenile record, but when she saw a car sitting there," range," the man told the student, Kovatch said the student slowly the 17 year old h~ no current Kovatch explained. The student "You better not scream or I'll cut walked away until they drove off. 
record. 
later told Kovatch that she had your face with this ring." He then She then ran to the security office. "The student is going home this 
been apprehensive about the car showed her a ring with a razor "As she was giving the ~ descrip­weekend and will talk to herbut thought it was "a couple blade attached to it, forming a tion, one dispatcher called in that parents to decide if she wants to
parking." hook. the car just went by," Kovatch prosecute," Kovatch said, adding"When she approached the car, The student assured him that she stated. The three men had driven he will call her at home on Friday.
two men got out,'' Kovatch stated. would not scream and began behind the St. Mary's convent and "One grabbed her by the lapels of talking to him, Kovatch said. "She Regina Hall and were coming If she does decide to prosecute, her coat and one grabbed her from told him there was a party in her back when security cars blocked "there will be warrants issued," he behind taking out a knife. The one room and that she had to get there their exit. stated. 
.Just a reminder: 
This is the l~st issue of the 
Observer 
before Thanksgiving. 
Happy Thanksgiving! 

2 the observer Tuesday, November 23, 1976 
~On Campus Today--. Hours to change for break 

12 1'ipm  lecture. "macbeth and lady macbeth" by prof. robert Iordi, n.d. room 220, O'shaughnessy hall.  
l  IOpm  computer course. "command procedure (clist) pro­gramrnmg in mvs" (for the experienced tso user only). room 115 computer center.  
4  lOpm  seminar. "genetic manipulation of hessian fly population" by dr. john e. foster, usda, purdue univ. galvin aud.  
7  IOpm  panel discussion. "knowledge or certainty" with james t cu~hing, n d, richard a. Iamanna, n.d., kenneth m. ~,JVn•, n.d. library lounge. •  
7  \(,,)Ill  meeting.  chri~matic prayer  Iafortune student center.  
10pm  meeting.  knights of columbus in council chambers.  

Standard Oil economist warns against divestiture 
by Eileen Lynch structures of the companies. Staff Reporter 
Quirin explained that Congress 
Brendan A. Quirin, senior econ­omist with Standard Oil Company in Chicago, warned against the passage of a bill of divesture last Firday in a lecture at St. Mary's. 
The lecture entitled "Current Problems Facing the Petroleum Industry: Regulations, Competi­tion, Energy Sources" involved government policies and its efforts to pass a bill of divestiture. 
"Since the Middle East Embargo in 1973, the United States has been dependent on foreign countries for as much as 40% of its petroleum. Ninety percent of the U.S. energy source isn't pctrolcum.As a whole, production of petroleum has de­clined and will continue to do so," predicted Quirin. The completion of the Alaskan pipeline won't make a difference.'' 
The divestiture bill would break up the interests the oil companies have in other companies and would prevent vertical and horizontal 
*The Observer 
Night Editor: Debbie Dahrling Asst. Night Editor: Leigh Tunakan Layout Staff: Cindy McKie!, Cathy Kustner, Martha Jane 
Hogan (my idol) Editorial layout: Chris Smith 
Features layout: Tim O'Reiley Sports Layout: Ray O'Brien 
lypists: Kitty Conklin, Sue Sh P lit• n burg t> r , R u sty Espinosa, Kathy Egbert 
Night Controller of Early Morning Typists: Martha Fanning 
Day Editor: Mary pat Tarpey 
Copy Reader: Cathy Nolan 
Ad Layout: Tom Walrath 
Photographer: Dominick Yocius 
feels the petroleum industry is not 
competive and subsidizes down­
stream operations with production 
profits. Congress also claims it 
would be purely a paper transac­
tion. This is "just not so," 
according to Quiran. 

"The real impact of divestiture would be a rise in wholesale petroleum prices, a real GNP' decrease and more unemployment. It may help a few of the smaller companies but, a good majority of the privately owned stations would be sqeezed out," Qui ran stated. 
"It would not decrease the power 
of OPEC (Organization of Petro­
leum Exporting Countries). 
The international companies do not 
run OPEC. Their major influence is 
Saudi Arabia.'' 

"We weren't overly concerned with the divestiture issue because we were certain President Ford would veto it. With President-elect Carter, we are uncertain. He hasn't clearly stated his policies as yet," Quirin said. 
Snowball causes student injury 
by Jack Pizzolato 
Staff Reporter 

Dean of Students, James A. Roemer, today urged that Notre Dame students refrain from throw· ing snowballs at one another because of the possibility of inflict­ing what he termed, "serious eye damage." 
Roemer cited an incident that occurred on Nov. 4 near the Grotto, in which a group of 15 male students "pelted" a Saint Mary's shuttle bus with snowballs. One of the snowballs,'' he said, ''broke a back window in the bus and a St. Mary's student had her eyeglasses shattered." 
"Luckily she wasn't hurt," Roe­mer commented, "but it's scary to think that a person's eyesight could have been seriously harmed." 
•••••••••CLIP AND SAVE•••••• •• 
•• FAST •• <(> w TYPEWRITER "tJ 0 -r-
UJ 
c 
z 
z REPA l> c 
<( ,.CJ) 
Q. 
:::::i e ONSOLIDATED m< 
~BusiNESS 
•
: -am:ACHINES INC. : 
by Lindy Declo Staff Reporter 
Students should buy their snacks and take out library books now if they want to survive through Thanksgiving break. The first two floors of the library, North Dining Hall, and the Huddle will all be closed for the majority of Thanks­giving break. 
All dorms will be left unlocked, except for those with Detex doors, so students remaining on campus will have access to their rooms. Also, students from both North and South Quads will be able to eat their meals in the South Dining Hall. 
Arthur Pears. head of Campus Security, noted. "Since so many students are remaining on campus over break, it would be silly to lock up all the dorms, but this doesn't mean the student ~houldn 't be cautious." Pears continued. "Everyone should be on the alert for outsiders roaming in the halls, for unless the students are on the alert they will get ripped off." 
Although the dorms will be open to the students throughout the break, the library. Huddle and dining halls will not be as easily accessible. The North Dining Hall will be closed all through break. 
The first and second floors of the library will close after five p.m. on Wednesday, Friday, and Saturday, 
Advent masses to begin Nov. 29 
Starting Monday Nov. 29, daily mass will be held in the La Fortune Ballroom at 12:15 in preparation for Advent. 
while the upper floors will stay This special meal will include the open until ten p.m. on these days. traditional turkey, chestnut stuff­No books can be checked-out of the ing, giblet gravy, cranberries, library after five and neither the sweet and whipped potatoes, card catalogue not periodical room smoked ham, a cheese and relish can be used by students after five. tray, as well as pumpkin pie, The whole library will be closed on mincemeat pie and raspberry sher­Thanksgiving Day. bert. On Friday,_ Saturday and Sunday, breakfast will be served
The South Dining Hall will serve 

from 10 to 11 a.m., lunch is
regularly scheduled meals on Wed­

scheduled from 12 to 1 p.m. and
nesday, Nov. 24. Thanksgiving 
dinner will be from five to six.

Day an early meal will be served from 10 to 11 a.m. The The Huddle will close Wednes­Thanksgiving meal will be ~served day at 10 p.m. and will not open from 2:30 to 5 p.m. again until Sunday at 12 p.m. 

~ 
PREPARE FOR: 
MCAT• OAT• LSAT• SAT 
GRE • GMAT • OCAT • CPAT • VAT 
Over 3 I years of experience and succau. Small classes. Vol­
uminous home study materials. Courses that are constantly
updated. Canters open days C. wMkands all y ..r. Complete 
tapa facUlties for review of class lessons and for use of 
supplementary materials. Make-ups tor missed lessons at 
our canters. 
ECFMG • FLEX 
NAT'L MEDICAL & DENTAL BOARDS 
Flexible Programs I Hours 
Our broad range ot programs provtdes an umbrella of test1nQ know hoVt that enab~s us to offer the best preparation avatlabiP turth~r 
•morov1ng the •nd•vtdual course you ve sPiecl£"0 
~~~;,?,:~~~~~-:~olis also l ~N-H. 
Other campuses 
MPII'I 
Most classes · 8 weeks befo•e exam EDUCATIONAl CENTER 
Outstde NY State Only 
~:k~rH 800·221·9840 TEST PREPARATION CPflltrUI MilO' US C1r.rs SPECIALISTS SINCE 1e38 
SUNDAY MASSES (Main Church) 
5:15p.m. Saturday Rev. Robert Griffin, C.S.C. 9:30a.m. Sunday Rev. Edward Malloy, C.S.C. 
10:45 a.m. Sunday Rev. Richard J. Conyers, C.S.C. 
12:15 p.m. Sunday Rev. john J. Fitzgerald, C. S.C. 
Vespers will be in Lady Chapel at 7:15 p.m. The celebrant is Rev. Richanl Conyers, C.S.C. 
. U.S. 31 N (near N. Village Mall, Roseland 
. 1102 S. Michigan, South Bend, Ind. 
~ . 1807 Lincolnway East, South 

I ht· Ohwnt·r" puhl1'h"d l1.\onddv throu!,!h I nd.t; .tnd Wf't>~l\ rlunng tht• 'ummPr "'"Inn. "" t•pt rlur1ng th•· px,lm .tnd Vdt .tt1on pPntHJ, 1hi-' Oh"'f\Pr" puhl"ht·rl bv 'tudt•nt'> ot tlw L'nl\"r"t\ ot Notn· [),mw ,md St MM\ ·' Cnll•·1w '>ub" nptwn' m.t; bt• pun h.t,P<i tor '1>20 pl'r VI'M ($ !() pt•r '>t•nw'>!Pr) Irum I hP ( lb'>Pr­vt>r, Bo~ (). Notn• lldnH'. lndidna 41.>~~6 SPtond cid'>' po,t.tgt• pa1d, Notrl' Danw, ln<i1ana 46~~h 
ThP Oh,Pr\t'r ,., a mPmbPr ot thl' A"o< Jdt!'d l'rP'>'> All r!'product•on nghh arl' rP,Pnl'd 
..c:.:-c-::-r-<",11t..,.,~:....P'Jl ~ bend, Ind. 
~~;-... . 710 W. McKinley, .~ Mishawaka, Ind. 
~ 

Get 2SUPER Arhy'f 
REGULAR $1.19 9uy one -get the second for 
69c 
~1mtt 2 oer COUPON Coupon expi~~s Dec. 8th 
Get 2 SUPERArhy'~ 
REGULAR $1.19 Buy one-get the second tor 
69c 
Ltm•t 2 per COUPON Coupon expires Dec. 8th 
~ 

• 2915 MISHAWAKA AVE. SOUTH BEND • 
: . ~~rn : 
·········CLIP AND .SAVE .........~ 
, , , ',. . 
. , .. , .. .-,.., .. , ..,. , .,

. ·~ t • • . 
Tuesday, November 23, 1976 
the observer 

Hall allotment program initiated for concert ticket distribution 

by Tim Joyce StaH Reporter 
No longer will the Notre Dame student have to camp out overnight at the ACC or Lafortune in order to get tickets to a concert. 
The Student Union has intro­duced a program for ticket distribu­tion to the students, which was first implemented at the Nov. 20 Doobie Brothers concert. Instead of wait­ing in long lines, students can now obtain tickets through a hall allot­ment program. 
"It's not a new idea," stated Kenn Ricci, Student Union direc­
tor. "It was originally introduced Digger Phelps spoke last ni in Hall to a crowd ot six years ago so that students could 55 girls, marking his first visit to St. Mary's. (Photo by Dominici' get first show at any seating they 
f ·1 f determined by a lottery.
Yocius.~------------------------------------------~ wanted. Th.ts program at ed or 0 . . II th St d t u · h d 
ngma y e u en mon a

• d set aside approximately 600 tickets
SMC parietal system reVISe 
by wuis Enyedy StaH Reporter 
Le Mans Hall residents, in a 
special meeting last Thursday 
night, proposed new methods of 
parietals enforcement. The 
meeting was organized after Hall 
Director Mary Fran Burt threat­
ened to suspend parietals last 
weekend. 
"I don't like to suspend parie­
tals. I would like the hall to be 
self-governing. I wanted the 
students to come up with a solu­
tion," Burt said. 
"The present system wasn't 
working effectively," Burt com­
mented. The parietals system in 
Darby's Place open for break 
by Marty Stardiford StaH Reporter 
Darby's Place, in the basement of Lafortune Center will be hosting several activities on Thanksgiving Day, according to Father Griffin, university chaplain and proprietor of Darbys Place. 
The movie 1776 will be shown at 
2 p.m. and again at 9:30 p.m. 
There will be a Thanksgiving mass 
at 6 p.m. in the Keenan Chapel and 
at 7:30 the movie, Darby O'Gill and 
the Little People, will be shown. 
"Anyone who's churlish enough 
not to like cocker spaniels shouldnt 
worry,'' Father Griffin commented, 
"since the movie is based on 
selected Irish short stories and not 
cocker spaniels." 
Snacks will be served continually 
beginning at 2 p.m. and at 7 p.m. a 
ham and turkey buffet will be 
offered. 
Contributions for the Thanks­giving activities were collected from the Sunday masses at Keenan Hall, the Junior Class mass held Sunday, Nov. 21, Student Affairs and Campus Ministry. Headed by Steve lasero, the program spon­sored by the Knights of Columbus. As Father Griffin stated, "Every­body in the world is invited to come." 
SMC break to begin Wed. noon 
St. Mary's Thanksgiving break will begin at 12:30 p.m. Wed­nesday despite Notre Dame's schedule, said Sr. Francesca Kennedy, registrar. 
According to Kennedy, St. Mary's was not notified of the revision which states Notre Dame's break will begin after Wednesday classes. "I don't know when the little update was made," she said. 
Kennedy explained that St. Mary's is adhering to the calendar that was approved last February. "It was published in every student's booklet which they received in the beginning of the year, so everyone has made plans according)~. We.}ilst can't change·, it now," she stated. 
use at Le Mans requires any male visitors to sign in at the front desk of the lobby before entering a girl's room. 
''The girls in the dorm are supposed to work at the desk. Lately, the girls have neglected their specified desk duties and have not been getting any replace­ments," Burt noted. "As a result, guys have come in without signing in first. 
Burt suspended parietals until "the students could come up with a better system." Burt emphasized her willingness to discuss and consider the students' solutions. 
At the meeting, Le Mans resi­dents discussed several proposals which will be implemented next semester. Under the present system, male visitors are required to leave their J.D.'s at the deslk. Next semester, however, the girls will leave their I.D. cards. 
Burt explained, "The students thought it was the girl's responsi­bility. The guy is the girl's guest, so the brunt of the responsibility should be on the girl rather than the guy." 
According to the new system, the girls will be required to sign their guests in and out, when they leave. 
Previously, male guests only had to sign in. 
A duty roster for desk assign­ments will be put up two weeks in advance. Each section of the hall will be assigned to cover the desk one weekend per semester. 
Mary Laverty, Regina Hall Dir­ector and Dianne Bejamin, hall directors of McCandless both indic­ated they were having no major prot 
\ems with their parietals systems. 

the senior bar presents go to california! 
tonight! 
southern_ cal sendoff party beers $.30 9-1 $.50 drink specials 9-1 $.50 hurricanes firecrackers 
tequila sunrise live disco music all nite! 
senior bar 
Two-Year Scholarships Now Available 
The Navy will pay the tuition and furnish bookS plus $100 a month subsistence for your Junior and Senior Years at college, If you can qualify for one of our special 2-year NROTC Scholarship pro­grams. For further information, no obligation of course, call 283-6442. . 
...
,· ~ \ \ ~ • " ' • t. • I ' • • • ' ' 

two reasons: the students took up all the good seats, leaving very few good seats for South Bend resi­dents." The program was poorly managed, Ricci added. 
Ressurected because of nume­rous complaints from people who had camped out overnight for Bruce Springsteen tickets, the pro­gram has undergone many changes. 
The allotment system works as follows: Student Union sets aside a certain amount of seats for hall use. 
The hall presidents must find out how many tickets each hall resident wants. He then collects the money for the tickets and brings a check to 
the Student Union to cover the expense. The order in which the halls pick up their tickets is 
for the Doobie Brothers concert. But response to the allotment program was so great Student Union had to allot another 800 seats. In all, 17 halls participated in the program and 1382 tickets were sold. 
Student Union had hoped to get : padded seats for everyone Ricci · said, but because of the response they decided to allot sections of the bleachers directly in front of the state, along with padded sections 6, 7 and 8. Student Union decided on the frontstage bleacher instead of padded sections 4 and 5 which are located behind the state. 
Some people complained the program was not offered to off­campus students. According to Ricci, this was because no one was willing to bear the responsibility of. 
' taking orders and distributing the tickets to the off-campus students. Steps are being taken to remedy this situation in the future, Ricci emphasized. 
"I thought it worked out well, considering the size of the project and the amount of time we had to work on it," Ricci said. 
There were some complaints about certain halls not receiving any tickets. "If any halls did not receive tickets it's the hall staffs' fault. Any hall that wanted tickets got them," Ricci commented. 
The allotment program for the Doobies concert was tmplimented on a trial basis. Student Union will soon meet with members of the ACC ticket office to determine its future. 
,...-----------..... 
need posters in a hurry? 

cal
• • A
•nsly·pr•nts
the wiz of the printingbiz! 
1 00 • 11 x17 posters Only $10.00 
203 N. Main SoBend 289-6977 
~ir 1Rirhnrd5

I ®
HAIR IDLING

'Member of 1976 
Award W inn in~ State Hairstyling 
FORMEN& WOMEN Stylist 

277 ·0734 129 Dixieway South ~77 ·0734 N in Roseland, half mile N. of Cam 
Your Source for the Unusual in Diamonds and Precious Gems Platinum and Gold Jewelry 
You'll find untold treasures of the finest quality brought to you by the eye of an expert.* And sold with the care of a professional.* 
Insurance appraisals and purchases of fine diamonds and estate jewelry provided. 

'Graduate Gemologist: Gemological Institute of America 'Fellow Gemmologist: 
Gemmological Association of Great Britain 'B.A.: Indiana University 
Lobby St. Joseph Bank Bu!lding South Bend. Indiana Telephone: 287-1427 
John M. Mar.tlall's 

COlatnortd 9mpo~t Compa1t9 .. .' .•••.-y.,, So"'"""" tho"""'""' 


---~------------------­
_:4:.____ __;t_:_h:....:e=---o=b:....:s:....:e~rv..:....::e:...:r____:l:...::uesday I November 23I 1976 
letters to a lonely God 
He Doesn't Say He Neuer Loved You 
Reverend Robert Griffin 
(This letter is written as a sharing of country m grief. I wept for my family, sick, ened in my family that day as I struggled, Then, in Keenan, began the friendships personal history with someone who recent­helpless. and stalked by tragedy. I wept never so alone, to be a father to the little and conversations; the grief being touched ly came to sec me. bearing a great grief. because I would never feel young again, group to which I had been born as the to grief, the tear being joined to tear, the Some things arc more easily written about because I would never live again unafraid. youngest child. Nothing that I did that day laughter being mixed with laughter; the than talked about even by me, who has not I wept because the earth had lost its worked to make it seem God cared. We chatter and confusion of a thousand kept many secrets, including this one innocence, and God Himself, in His care of were in Maine; the Kennedys were at midnights; the humdrum and trivia of a below. from the readers of this column.) earth, had lost His innocence as well. Hyannisport. The Kennedys were at least hundred Sunday afternoons. Eventually
. 
able to console each other in their grief, I there were the marriages I became a part 
The :vcar 1963 --the year in which For three years after that, I never thought bitterly. We weren't able to do of; the families that needed my ministry at l'rc~ident Kennedy was shot--was a year entirely shook off the mood of that even that, because we had not only grief to baptisms; the funerals where I comforted that the country could have done without. November afternoon. Before that fateful contend with; we had fear as well. loved students at the death of parents, or 1%.1 --the year also when Pope John died _year, 1963, griefs, if they arrived, always loved students comforted me at the death of cancer--was a bitch of a year, expecially came in single file so that you could Now, as I write this, it is November 22, of children who were also students, the after the summer. which was really very skirmish with them successfully, one after 1976. In two days, it will be Thanksgiving sons and daughters of my second family nice; a year that broke one's life apart; one another, in hand-to-hand combat: failure, Day, the anniversary of Oswald's death, who had left life early through sickness or in which laughter seemed to die, and the defeat, illness, death, all of them were thirteen years from that afternoon when, in an accident. Then always. from the very world felt mutable and mortal and full of something you could handle with dignity tears at the North Station, I said to myself: beginning, there were Masses, day in and terror. I remember Sunday, November and grace. But beginning in September, "Everything is turning to horror." The day out; several on a Sunday. There has 
24th. two davs after the assassination; and all the news was bad. The blues showed up self-pity has long since healed. The family scarcely been a day since when I haven't I wa-. walking into the North Station in with the regularity of out-of-town relatives has survived barely. though not without shared the Eucharist, thereby belonging to Boston to catch a train up to Portland, where who have decided to move into your house scars. not without being scattered. In everybody who belongs to the Lord, with mv mother. brother. and sister were in great numbers. until you could scream to .honesty, despite an indulgence in the their happiness belonging to my happi­Sl'riousl~· ill. Two ragamuffin kids, the heaven how blessed it would be to have rhetoric of rebellion, I never stopped ness, their sadness belonging to my quintes.~encc of Irish urchinry. said to me: been left an orphan. But heaven didn't trusting God. I know too much of God's sadness, their existence becoming part of .. Hey, !'adder. Didja hear Oswald just got seem to give a damn as God played at His history to think that suffering is a sign that me. Those Masses are important to me, -.hot'?" charade of being innocent of responsibility God doesn't care. because once during this time, for nearly a 
for a president's life, a family's fate, a year, I never said Mass at all. "Oh. God," I thought to myself. nation· s welfare. and the death of young Docs God care, then?· I can't prove to I did not lock my heart, my moods, my fathers who were one's closest friends. feelings away; and one day, quite simply, I 
"everything i-. turning to horror," and you that He does; I would never want to found that the ice had melted. and thell'aning my shoulder against a heavy steel prove to you that He doesn't. But ten years numbness was gone. I felt alive again, and construction girder. I began to cry. I wept Thanksgiving Day. 1963, was grim, ago. when I moved into a hall with capable again, as I had not felt alive andbecause of the violence I had just heard of; grisly. ghastly. Every beauty and blessing students, I never wanted to be hurt again, 
I wept for the slain President and the that make families happy seemed threat even 'if that meant never having friends 
capable since August, in the summer of whom I might have to mourn for, if '63.Cinema in South Bend anything happened to them. I told this to a 1\s I mentioned betore, this letter is 
written as a sharing of personal historypriest I lived with. He answered me: "If with someone who recently came to seeyou could put your heart, moods, and me, bearing a great grief. Sometimes, thefeelings into a sealed, iron box so that person said. I quarrel with God, and ask

Character Assassination 
nobody could get at them; and if you could 
Him how I can loving,

bury that sealed box in a hole a hundred think of Him as 
careless

miles deep; and if you could surround that when He does such things to
By Dauid O'Keefe 
people.

hole with a hundred gates, each of them 
Connery steals the show with his perfor­My dear, I say. I cannot answer for God. 
The Next Man with its separate and impregnable lock ...if Directed by Richard Sirafian mance. The ambassador is an eloquent you could hide your heart like that, so that He is old enough to make His own 
Starring Sean Connery. Cornelia Sharpe visionary. who, in the course of a week, nothing of sorrow would ever touch you explanations. I cannot, in His name, --and quite naturally nothing of sunshine
shakes up the international political scene promise you anything, but I think there are with his proposed alliance between the Arab many Thanksgivings still ahead that will be
What we have here is the film counter· either--it might work, and you'd be safe better than the one you will sadly celebrate 
part to yogurt: rich in texture but thin in world and Israel. He is sensitive in every enough then, Griffin...but you would also 
respect, appreciative of everything from this year. The only evidence I have for the substance. The Next Man features one of be in HELL!" 
the need for world peace to fine gourmet truth of what I say is my own experience.
the best working actors in the Western Perhaps for somebody else, my experience world (Scan Connery) and some of the most cooking. 
magnificent and lush cinematography I've Nicole is another story. A card-carrying Un Thanksgiving Day at Mass (at six may merely seem sad, and highly self-sor­seen in quite some time. The film isshot member of the European jet-set, extremely o'clock in tne evening in the Keenan-Stan­rowful, and not in the least bit instructive; entirelv on location and takes us from the intelligent, undoubtedly beautiful, and ford chapel. if you care to come), I will, but from it. at this point, all my life and brutally ruthless. her character is , an among other blessings, be thanking God ministry come, and that is why I love our
Bahanias to the French Riviera to the 
amalgam of personalities that neither for ten years of my life among the young students so much.
Middle East to New York City to London to Ireland. But the story takes us nowhere. Sirafian nor Sharpe can bring together at people of Notre Dame and St. Mary's. Does God care? My dear, when enough When I first came to Keenan, I was still Thanksgivings have gone past. you will
It is the talc. based on a true incident. of any point in the film. Consequently. her 
a Saudi Arabian envoy to the U.N. who actions seem to be motivated only by the numb with a sense of loss and the feeling know that answer for yourself. from your own experience.
falls in love witha beautiful woman. She is, fact that they were writeen in the script. that the important times of life had ended 
me. As far In even in
unbeknownst to him, a first-class assassin Hers in an extremely unsatisfying charac­early for as life-accomplish­the meantime. November's working for the group responsible for killin ter. and, because it is centrally important ments were concerned. the party was over, dark. just remember: He doesn't say He 
to the film. cripples the credibility of the I thought; I might as well call it a day. never loved you 
0

three of his colleagues before him. Her 
ori_~inal assignment is to "get close to story. 
him .. in case the organization decides he D~spite the formal weaknesses, The has hl go. There arc a multitude of things Next Man is nevertheless a piece of 
we don't know about the story, formost of technical precision and often breathtaking which i-. why she has to get close to him to 
beauty. Sirafin takes advantage of the 
story to shoot beautiful location scenes like
be able to kill him. In arw event. Kahlil Abdui-Muhsen falls 
the sunset in the Bahamas and the in love .with her. and a very large part of fireworks festival in Nice. At moments like the film concerns itself alternately with his these. the idyllic love story s!M:faces and 
impassioned diatribes before the General are
the real story is forgotten, but these Assembly and his efforts to win over Nicole only passing moments. Sirafian may be Scott (C(;rnelia Sharpe). As a result, what guilty of over-indulgence at times, but his 
could have been a highly suspenseful film directions and the performance of Connery is reduced to an innocuous and only make what would have otherwise been a moderately interesting character study. lame film passable piece of entertain·
a Kahlil is the best-drawn character, and 
ONCE ~~t~lB '!' 
···~ ~... AGAIN 
PRESENTS 
9-12

HURRICANES 
OLDIE'S NIGHT 
All Drinks 

$1.00 ALL NIGHT TONIGHT 
Half Price!!!

and Every Tuesday!!!!! 


*The Observer 
anindependentstudentnewspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's 
The Observer is published by students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary'sCollege It does not necessarily reflect the pol1c1es of e1ther mst1tut1on. The news is reported a~ accurately and as objectively as possible Fditorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions and letters are the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and letters are encouraged to promote the free expressiOn of varying opinions on campus. 
Business Manager Advertising Manager Photo Editor Production Manager 
sing a Iong junk~!!!!!!!!!~!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~~!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~ 
Enough is enough 
__.iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii0 e g;II 
On March 27, 1968, four stu­dents were suspended for violation of the University parietal rule by then Dean of Students, Fr. James Riehle in a controversial decision tnvolving student's rights and due ;>rocess of law. Student Body President Chris Murphy said he .vas "very disturbed by the Dean of Student's ruling. I feel that this is highly indicative of the way they (the Administration) are beginning to deal with student problems. This crackdown came with abso­lutely no policy statement before­hand. I am also disappointed that they refused to use the Campus Judicial Board; I really think it is hypocritical that the Judicial Board was not allowed to handle it," said Murphy. 
On March 28th, Murphy and SBP-elect Richard Rossie met with more than ISO members of the 5tudent Body Congress and, ac­:ording to The Observer, "passed Jy consensus strong censures a­~ainst the University's action. The 
nain objections of the Congress 
vere the injustice of both the 
lrocedure involved in the case and 
he severity of the penalty. Among 
he procedural actions specifically 
lbjected to were the Jack of a trial 
or the students. the misleading of 
he students to testify against 
hemselves. and the secrecv of the 
trocecdings.·' Rossie said that the 
'Administration believes that they 
an make the rules and enforce 
nem any way they choose." He 
~It that such action denying the 
tudents such basic rights is "un­
merican and a contradiction in a 
'atholic University." 
On March 31st, University Presi­'ent Fr. Theodore Hesburgh re­ersed the University's decision nd reinstated the four students. romising to establish a program designed to eliminate the moral mbiguity" of campus policies. In s editorial the following day, The ;bserver candidly underlined the o1ain issue. saying "The issue is 1ot parietal hours or any other pecific rule or regulation. The .sue is that of fair judicial proceed­lg. Last week's student J.I~res! 
...... 
c: 
0 
...c::: 
·-Q.. -0 ­
.._____lli___.~-lilliiii~~~~l.iili~-.!...;.;-.~.-;;;;~~;.;;;:.:.:~~:.:;.~~~=~ 
Tom Fronczak Mike Miller Tony Chifari Martha L. Fanning 
Tuesday, November 23, 1976 
was not triggered by an overriding 
concern for a 'phony issue', but 
with the realization that there are 
no procedural cannons governing 
the rights of students accused or 
disciplined by the University. The 
points of law taken for granted by a 
civil court are virtually ignored in 
the dealings of the Administration 
with some of its less well behaved 
students.'' 
On Oct. 28, 1976, four students were suspended byDeanofStudents James Roemer for violation of the University parietal and alcohol rules. Observer Editor Tom O'Neil wrote that "Believing their viola­tions would result in 'something like 20 hours of leafraking for punishment,' the students signed a statement waiving their IS 'Stu­dent Rights in Disciplinary Pro­ceedings.' including the right to appeal their case before the Uni­versity Appeals Board. The viola· tions resulted in Roemer's decision not to allow the students to return to school for the second semester.'' 

There was no judicial process involved; the students were not given a trial, and although the students did sign a statement waiving their rights, one informed source charged,"The four students were inadequately counseled about the consequences of signing the statement." The penalty was severe; four students, four fresh­men, certainly deserve better treat­ment under any law as first offenders. The Observer editorial the following day noted that a ·'penalty so disappropriate to the 'offense' makes a mockery of the administrative claims to be acting in the manner of a loving parent and a generous Christian." 
Eight years have passed between the above cases; the question of student's rights has yet to be resolved. The similarities between the two are evident: The judicial procedures were unjust, the penal­ties severe. The similarities, though, do not really tell the whole story; a point has to be made: 
In 1968, the four students were reinstated by Fr. Hesburgh. In 1976, they were not. In 1968, The 
Box Q, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 Phor.E.;: (219) 28J-8661 (ND] (219) 284-5365 [SMC] 
EDITORIAL BOARD 
Thomas O'Neil  Editor-in-Chief  
Dan Sanch':'z  Managing Editor  
Chris Smith  Asst. Managing Ed.  
Gregg Bangs  Executive Editor  
Val Zurblis  Executive.Editor  
Pat Hanifin  Editorial Editor  
Bob MadPr  [  c-c.  News Editor  
Maureen Flynn  Campus Editor  
Marti Hogan  St. Mary's Editor  
Don Reimer  Copy Editor  
Tim O'Reiley  Features Editor  
Fred Herbst  Sports Editor  

Observer headline underlined the 
outrage of Student Government 
officials. In 1976, there was nary a 
word from the men that represent 
us. In 1968, there was rumor of a 
student strike in protest of the 
decision, and although Hesburgh 
maintained that this did not 
influence his decision, the possibil­
ity existed. In 1976, no such 
possibility arose; the students, and 
in particular student government, 
have no such power, and perhaps 
sadly, have no power at all. 
It is obvious, for whatever reason 
one might list, that the procedural 
rights of students and the respect 
for students by the administration 
over the last eight years have not 
been strengthened in the least. We 
are, sadly enough still treated as 
children, and sometimes, as an 
unpleasant nuisance to be repri­
manded and silenced. 
What is not so obvious is why the power of student government has diminished to the point of being ineffective. It is clear that one can rightly say that 1968 was a different era, ·a time when student unrest was rampant across the country, a time when the power of student protest was manifested on college campuses, including Notre Dame. It is also clear that the two cases are different in many respects and were probably treated differently. What is not so clear is why the voice and power of student govern­ment has abated throughout the years and, in effect, why the power of students at Notre Dame has all but disappeared. 
Eight years have passed. The Administration's attitude toward student's rights and students has not noticeably changed. The student's attitude toward the Ad­ministration has ---the power is gone. 
It's time to regain this power. For once, Student Government and Student Body, let us raise our fists in protest. We do have a voice, and if it necessitiates standing outside the Administration building in anger, then so be it. 
Enough is enough. 

P.O.Box Q ­

Let's do more 
Dear Editor, 
The plea has been voiced, the goal defined, the crusade initiated. Hear the call to bear arms, the world needs saving and now is the time! The United States will acknowledge the right of everyone to a nutritionally adequate diet and then proceed to ensure the elimina­tion of hunger. Mr. Allen, such noble sentiment, what lofty aspira­tions. My belief in the perfectabil­ity of mankind has been restored, with one grand gesture. 
May I add, in a rare moment of unbridled exuberance, my own resolutions which I sincerely urge the Notre Dame-St. Mary's com­munity to support and endorse whole-heartedly: 
I. May the United States incorporate into its foreign policy the right of everyone to a disease­free life. 
2. 
May the United States incorporate into its foreign policy the right of everyone to a comforta­ble middle-class life as lived by Americans. 

3. 
May the United States incorporate into its foreign policy the right of everyone ot happiness. 


Surely, Mr. Allen, you will agree with me that passage of such resolutions are necessary. To ignore the existence of disease, poverty, and unhappiness would "invite catastrophe". 
Just when interest in the crusade 

to eliminate the "specter of com­
munism" waved, a new crusade 
has emerged. This is indeed fortuitous, or else, pray, what would all the old crusaders do? 
Mr. Allen, I would agree heartily with your endorsement of the Right to Food resolution if this resolution were merely a statement of fact concerning the conditions of the world. However, to incorporate this resolution into United States policy would be yet another addi­tion to the string of Great Society failures. 
When a food reserve system is designed, who would implement the distribution of the food? Either an international organization or local governments would distribute the food. If an international organization is instituted, then a United Nations for Food has been set up. If local governments are given the responsibility to distri­bute food, then what happens if the local officials prove incompetent, or greedy, or both? It appears that the United Sates in pursuit of its foreign policy would need to re­place these local officials (read that "CIAassassination") or indirectly intervene (read that "supply techni 
•. cal .arut.managerial .adv~ots."J, • • • . .a. grp~p.\Y.i}i~~ .d~~ ~!a.i'!'. tp. serye My next question is, "What the students). 
happens if these measures fail?". The answer is, of course, direct intervention. This pattern is too familiar. This is South Vietnam repackaged. 
The cause is noble. No sensitive human being would deny that the existence of certain conditions throughout the world are wrong. Anyone with conscience is led to adk "What right have I to these basic needs while millions are deprived ofthem?" But change for the sake of change is senseless. To enlarge the wrongs of U.S. policy so as to constitute world policy merely multiplies the evils. 
When reading about the call to arms, and while writing my call away from arms, I was reminded of a scene in Don Quixote. Don Quixote, the Woodrow Wilson of literature, had attempted to save a farm hand, Andres, from a whip­ping by his master. The result was a whipping that was 1twice as bad. Later, during his wanderings, Qui­xote encounters Andres. Andres says to Quixote: 
"For the love of God, pure knight-errant, if you meet me again, even though you see more being cut to pieces, do not come to my aid, but leave me to my misfortunes. No matter how great they are, they will not be as great, as those that spring from your help, and may God lay a curse on you and all the Knights-errant that ever were born in the world." 
RickMaJuka 
WSND and SLF 
Dear Editor: 
A bit of clarification: 
The administration holds "the power of the purse" over WSND. When they point out this power while suggesting that WSND change its programming, it is "an unjust infringement on students' freedome of expression.'' 
The Student Union holds "the power of the purse" over the Soph­omore Literary Festival. When The Observer Editorial Board points our this power while suggesting that the SLF change its list of speakers, it. is "a reasonable request that the SLF Chairman consider the opinions and interests of others. " 
See the difference? 
Stephen Hudock 
Editor's Note: The "suggestion" to WSND was an "order" backed by a threat to close down the station (which has never claimed to specially serve the administration). The "suggestion" to SLF was merely a suggestion (to 


Tuesday, November 23, 1976 the observer 

Hunter rewrites record books 
by Ray O'Brien Sports Writer 
Little did AI Hunter dream that he would become the main cog in Notre Dame's offensive machine. Further from his mind must have been the notion that he would run for a new Irish single season rushing record in total yards. 
"I just wanted to do my part on offense," explained Hunter. "I just wanted to run, catch passes and block as a part of the offensive unit. •• 
Then all these unexpected feats must have come as a pleasant surprise to say the least. "It is a nice feeling to have gained the most yards in a season in Notre Dame's history," Hunter contin­ued. "But to me there are no such things as individual records. When the backfield executes, the line blocks, the kicking teams play well and the defense holds then things like records, victories, bowls and rankings all fall into place." 
Although it always takes ateam effort to win, the performance of Hunter this year has surely saved the Irish from a rough season offensively. The junior standout picked up the slack left when Jerome Heavens was sidelined for the season early in the year. Since then he has run with new authority and has been the workhorse in the Irish's rushing game. Hunter's total 943 yards is more than three times as much as any other back. 
"Its hard to say just how Jerome's injury has affected my role in the offense," noted Hunter. "I am carrying the ball more but our offense was shifted this year to allow for the running backs to carry more often. I would be running with the ball almost as often even if Jerome were in the lineup." 
The injury situation is quite a turn of events. Hunter has been the one who has been plagued with injuries throughout his Notre Dame career. Hunter feels that it is more than just luck that he has stayed healthy this season. 
"I am in better shape thi~ year," he said. "Last year I had a pulled hamstring going into two -a-day practices and that didn't help. I was in good shape going into this year and I am stronger and more confident." 
Why shouldn't the fleet footed halfback feel more confident? He is the leading scorer on the team with 13 touchdowns (11 rushing and one passing) He is third in pass receptions with 15 catches for 189 yards and he is the top kickoff returner. This versatile player has broken the single season record for carries in a season and is one touchdown shy of the modern touchdown record. He is also only 173 yards short of the seasonal all-purpose rushing record going into the last game agaist Southern California. 
\'/hen asked if he felt any pressrue going into the Southern· Cal game because he is shooting for the 1,000 yard mark (needs 57 yards) Hunter responded, "No not really because I didn't going into the season expecting to. I just want to beat them." To accomplish this the Irish must stop another great 
Bowland b-ball tixon sale 
Applications will be accepted tomorrow for away basketball tic­kets at gate 10. The games available are Kentucky, Princeton, Villanova, Davidson, Manhattan, West Virginia and DePaul. There are no tickets available for Mary­land, Marquette and UCLA. There is a four ticket limit for Kentucky. Tickets must be paid for with application and will be mailed for a couple of weeks prior to the game. 
Gator Bowl tickets go on sale Monday. Nov. 29 through Wed­nesday Dec. I. Notre Dame students may purchase ONE reser­ved seat for their personal use at a cost of $8 . (There is a ticket for every Notre Dame student.) Each student may present only his own 10 card. If tickets remain after ND students and alumni are accomo­dated, tickets will be sold to St. Mary's students. The Observer will carry details if this sale is possible. 
runningback named Ricky Bell. strong improvement. "The line "Our defense is very agressive," has been doing an excellent job." explained Hunter. "They are hard Hunter emphasized. "We have hitters and that is to their advantge developed and matured quickly because you cannot arm tackle since the opener against Pitts­Bell." burgh." He stressed his other roles 
Hunter does not model himself besides just carrying the ball as he after any other particular running­commented, "Running the ball is back. "I watch a lot of running­easy because it is just reactions to backs and try and learn something flow of the play. I take pride in my from them," he noted. "No two blocking and pass receiving be­running backs are alike but they cause they take more concentra­get the job done one way or tion. I feel like I contribute much another." The Irish standout sees more when I can spring a runner himself as a cut-runner. "I am not with a kev block." a jitterbugger and don't have great With a~other \ear ahead of him moves. I look for the open field and Hunter can contribute much more cut so I am harder to bring down." in his Notre Dame career. Although Hunter said that the feelings not overly concerned about a pw of having to be tackled by three football future. he ha~ ~oal~ defenders was just as fulfilling as headed in that direction With the breaking a long run. talent and po~itive attitude alrealh 
The easy going junior halfback is in hand he looks like a strong hl't Ill quick to spread the credit for his be a star of the future. 
~::::::::::::·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:::::::::::::.;::::::::::::::::.:·:·::::::;.;:;.;.;.;:;.;:;:;:;:;:;.;:;.;.:-:-:·:·:·:::::::::::::::.:-:::::::::::::.:::::::::.:·:·:·:·:::~ 
fRoom 121 Hayes -Healy 
lll  MEETING! :::  
:~[~ \l~~ :\l\ ~~~:  SENIOR FELLOW COMMITTEE Open to any interested Senior. Tuesday, 6pm or call ··  

8288 
:;::.::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:;:;:;:;:::::::::::::;:;:::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:::::::;:;:;:;:;:;:;::::.;::::.;.:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:~ 

NOTICES Smerb.. 
Happy birthday (early) Paul'
Next time we'll make three, one for "All you touch and all you see is all 

Need ride toM ilwaukee for Thanks­each table and one for under the 
your life will ever be".

Classified Ads
Place your order early for fresh 
(livio1(1. Call Nancy 8158. bed! 
Love, Karenturkeys 79 cents lb. Eckrich hot Happy Turkey daydo(ls 1 lb. pk(l 89 cents. 

I nee:d a ride to the Orlando, Florida 206 Campus View!! 
Dear Ninht Staff

Jim's Meat and Sausa(le Shop area for Christmas. Share drivin(l PERSONALS Happy sunrise every day and you1916 Lincoln Way West 
and expenses. Call Dou(l 1612. OBSERVER STAFF­are welcome to use the radio.
Happy Thanksnivinn Chris, Suzi. HAPPY THANKSGIVING! 
Love,Accurate, fast typin(l. Mrs. Donoho 

Need someone to help me coach 5th Char, Shiela, -Roxanne, Babette, LOVE AND STUFF,
232-0746. Hours 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. Missy, Terry, Chris, Cheryl and MOM
and 6th nrade basketball team. Call 
Mary Beth,

Adonna.
291 o9o5. 
Happy birthday on the 27th. Too

Love, the Bi(l Turkey Room · guenat
Need typin[l? Professional Typin(l bad we aren't here lor it so we could
Wanted: Mature female roommate, Happy 21st Birthday finally old
Service top quality convenient celebrate it in style!
prefer [lraduate student. Call HOGlE Hope you stay EIGHT man.
location 232-0898 A secret admirer 
232-0693. MILES HIGH over L.A. this week­end. I.L.A.D.
AUDIO OUTLET. stereos, televi­Jeanne, Julie, Barb, Gren, Stan. 
2 need ride to St. Louis area tor Serenely,
sions, tape decks, CB's wholesale. Art, Sue, Chris, Polly, Maude: Call 283 1181. My 20th was the best• Thanks for
Thanks(livin(l. Will share (las. etc. The Wild Bunch IV 1. MOE REYNOLDS (253 Badin), Call 3443. sez, "there's more to life than everythin'lsensual pleasure." If you're won
Omicron Delta Epsilon members! PUMPKIN ROCHEFORD+ A.D.
Need ride to NYC or Lon(l Island. derin(l what, call her at 6951.
Seminar with Dr. Willard Mueller is DID EVERYONE FIND THE P. S. Revenr]e lor the shower
Leave Wed. afternoon. Share $$
Tuesday, Nov. 30. Guests welcome. WAY TO YOUR ROOM?
and drivinn. Chris 288-9768 after There once was a (luy named Ken, 
LEMON BABIES AND FRIENDS:

Be there. ALL THE LYONS LADIES
6:30. -Who's 20, thou(lh 19 he's been. 
GET PSYCHED FOR CRAZINESS,

EXCEPT EVE 
He's now past his peak,

Need a ride? Go west youn(l man 
NO SNOW, MARGUERITAS, (woman, etc)! We're leavin(l Wed. PUMPKIN ROCHEFORD
RIDERS WANTED TO NJ OR But surely not weak, 
FOOTBAL~ THE BEACH, AND

PHILA. 287-4712. In tact, he's there like 10 men.
at 11 :00 (or so) a.m. throu(lh DID EVERYONE FIND THE 
SOME GREAT LATE NIGHTS!
Love and Kisses.

Chica(lo alon(l 1-90 to LaCrosse, WAY TO YOUR ROOM? 
SEE YOU TOMORROW! (IT'S

VISTA The Badin Babes
Wise. (God's country, USA). Call EVE 
BEEN SO, SO LONG... ) Mark 283-8540 or Mary 284-4606. 
IN LAW AND ENGINEERING... one and two-year positions available Kenny, You are just like pieces of 
Farrah (Water) Fawcett: 

all over the United States. Benefits lead, sometimes hard and some 
So you say you've never had a

include transportation, monthly liv­times soft but usually H B. 
As a public service to the University date. Wanna' chanoe that? Call
FOR RENT in(l allowance, housin(l, medical, Plati's Studio 3558. .
P. H. wishes to make it known that
paid vacation and more. See VISTA 
Tom O'Neil (of The Observer) is a
Need two or three roommates for (Volunteers in Service to America) Howdy Doody,
terrible credit risk and that anyone St. Anne,
5-bedroom house with a fireplace. recruiters Nov. 29 . Dec. 2, 9-pS, in Clara Bell wishes you a happy
who loans money to him mi(lht as Nice try, but 1 prefer puttin(l my
Openin(l immediately or for next the Placement Bureau and in the B-day!
well chuck it down a volcano. own foot in my mouth. Evensemester. $40 monthly plus utilities Library Concourse. 
thou(lh, the "service" came throuoh
Popcorn,

TOM O'NEIL: with commendable recommendation
We flipped our tab-tops the

BUSINESS When are you (loin(l to start tor the game. Any more recommen
Will rent my upstairs. $40 mo. Several two-year positions available supportin(l our baby? You always moment we met you. dations?
Girls only. Call 233-1329. Happy Birthday,
overseas for qualified volunteers. were a ti(lhtwad but little Tom is Sl. Von H.
All transportation paid, livin(l allow­hun(lry. The 6-pack 3 room furnished apt. Call288-9533 ance, medical benefits, housin(l and Mabel Well Jan, M'Love .
utilities furnished. termination allotment. For more Kenny · From Another world it seems. 
info see Peace Corps recruiters Happy 20th!
Dear bonut Girl, God, it has been the best and so we 
Monday. Thursday, 9-5, Placement Would like to know you. Meet KIL'M BAJA step into our first anniv. You'veLost and Found Bureau or Library Concourse. 
Mon. after break, same spot at 7. helped more than you'll ever know.
Happy Birthday Ken,

Econ. so to good and bad times (lone by &
Lost: black wallet between Library from Mike, Brian, Norris, David,
TEACHERS all to come. 1 LOVE YOU (words

and Nickies Thurs. ni(lht. Call Joe SCIENCE AND MATH· Needed for David's roommate, Marny, Zip,
Mike Miller & Senior Trip Group . don't workl Peter the TOAD
1079. Reward. two-year positions overseas. From Wish I were (loin(l with you! See Cathy, Bi(l and Little Jules, Chris, primary to colle(le level. Volunteers you on J. C. show. Mo, Mar(lo, Louie, Brother Joh, Hot Tracy MeLost: ND Soccer jacket at Library receive paid round-trip transporta­Love, Apple Pie, Leslie, the Boston Boys, 
Have a (lOOd break. Watch out forHappy Hour, Fri. Nov. 12. No 

tion, medical care, paid vacation, Tom, Barb, Jenni, Annie, Anita and
Mom fi(lhts and measurements, but no.
questions asked. Call Nace, 1184. 
monthly livin(l allowance, housin(l ad infinitum body's perfect
and more. For more information on To A.A. Dan
Tryin(l to locate a man from Boston 
these and other overseas job open­21 Bi(l Ones. Didn't make it over Ralph Malph,who owns a (]Old 4-door car, who 
in(ls, see Peace Corps recruiters I never thou(lht you'd make it to
the hill. Still climbino and oettino Observer typists
(lave a ride to 5 people from Senior Monday Thursday, 9-5 in the 20.
better. A lon(l way to the -peak.· Thanks for all your helpBar to SMC durin(] Alabama week. Library Concourse or the Placement Have fun (lettin(l there and have Especially Karen and Morey.
a
end. I lost camera in your car. Ken,
Bureau. (lOOd B-day. I. L. Y. There'd be no sports without you.
Reward. Please call 284-5170. Happy 20th. 1still love you!
The Hoochie Coochie Man En joy your break. 
PEACE CORPSLost silver N D '77 class rin(l. OVERSEAS JOBS· Many openin(lS Dear Cei'l, Aunt Mae and Sar(leant Tony wish Fred En(lraved with F. James Dragria. 
in many areas tor qualified volun­The entire ni(lht staff thanks you Jody a Happy Birthday. Cary,Will pay reward. 8552. 
teers. For more information on jobs 
so much for the use of your radio. It Happy Birthday 2 days late,
and benefits offered, see Peace Cathy (Tass'),
make the sun rise much more sorry!! Have a (lreat 19th year from
Corps and VISTA recruiters Monday acceptable! "Whatever I do there will be love in wristwatch great 
someone who could be ( and would

Lost: Gold of . Thursday 9 am . 5 pm, in the it, like to be) more than a "noodsentimental value. It is a Hamilton Placement Bureau or the Library Whatever I see 1will see you in it,
Hey! Thanks(livin(l day is big friend" once thinns are strainhtened
and on the back "ELA 1955" is Concourse Whatever I do there will be love in
Turkey Bob Jean(lue~day. If up. Hope lo talk·a(lain soon.! 1will
inscribed. Reward offered. Call it,
you see him on campus, give him a miss you over break!!
Jeff 3482. Even when I close my eyes,
FOR SALE kiss . he needs it. Love,
All I see is you."

WANTED Jaubert
Jim Must sell $1500. 283-8665. Please call 283-6536 or 283-3820 for 1971 TR-6 Excellent condition. Do you want to be a Catholic? 
Need ride east · desperate · top $$ TO THE FORMER FRIENDS OFKenny,
information about the Notre Dame
and share drivin(l, Rt. 80 (Pal or Rt. 
JIM LEEI have your birthday presenl.

For Sale: Skis, Hart freestyle, 190 Catechumenate Pro(lram.
90 (NY). Wed. 10 a.m. is earliest. 
READ DANTE'S CANTOS ONE TO
Come over to Lewis and unwrap it!

em., used twice. Call 277-3762 
THREECall Pat 8511 immediately. 

F.A.

niles. Mother Duck, BUT WAIT THEREs MORE
Hope you waddle yourself to a 
READ CANTO FOUR

Need ride to Valparaiso for Thanks. Book Shop. Used books. Students happy 19th. Love. Kenny, AND 7 TO 12. FORGET TURKEY.
Paradise. Open Wed., Sat., Sun. 20 years mature you ain't! 
9-7. Ralph Casperson Books, 1303 Fran and Kate Ride needed to Pittsburgh -Tues. or Buchanan Road. Niles, Michigan. To Tiny Hiney, Wed. Call Kathy 1319. Stork le(ls and his Linda, this time 
givin(l. Please call Susan 7170. Baby Chics 
683-2888. Kenny Richmond's birthday is Thur­day, call him at 1034 and wish him a
when you find it-Don't lose it! Need ride to Evansville area. Call D.J. & O'B
SALE -ADIDAS to 60 percent off happy b-day. Dave at 1765. 
shoes. shirts, in stock, too Chris or 
I ~ Bear 3982, 5G Farley. To my love, Lin To the Mental Ward: 
Need a ride to Youngstown (or Welcome to ND! Thanks for 
Have a Happy Thanksgiving, you 
Cleveland) Nov. 23 or 24. Call Cathy making this a great Thanksgiving! Love lncl K IIMI,
For Sale: 4 tickets for the USC turkeys! (4-4770) or Tom (3633). Kevin tom & ..mle
game. Call Paul at 1419. 

_.:...__.!......:_;_~......:..~--~---­.---~----T"";--.------­
, ' 
., .·.·,•, 

., 
t • • f 'r • I ' o I 

. j • ~ 1
'1",
f • •• • Ito • t • t I 1 If If I I I 1,·1,·1,·1,·1 1,1.1,1_ t,'f,l,l '1_'1,1,. 1.'.1 I 1 
• 
the observer Tuesday, November 23, 1976 
Irish eager's goal: NCAA playoffs 
by Fred Herbst last season with 112, more than any 
Sports Editor other two of his teammates combin­
ed. "Dice" is also considered to be 
the defensive specialist on the club. 
Notre Dame's basketball team "Rav Martin is one of the best 
will have a different look when they defen-se guards in the country," 
open the season against Maryland Phelps says. "Besides that, he's 
Saturday, but one thing is the been running this team for three 
same. '·Our goal is the same as it is years and that has to help." 
every year," Head Coach Digger Senior Dave Kuzmicz and junior 
Phelps said. "We just want to get Jeff Carpenter also should see duty 
enough wins to get an NCAA in the Notre Dame backcourt this 
tournament bid.'' season. Kuzmicz, a graduate of 
But before Phelps can get the bid South Bend St. Joseph High School 
that the Irish want. he must replace is known for his shooting ability, 
departed All-American Adrian while the 6-0 Carpenter is looked 
Dantley and center Bill Laimbeer. upon as a playmaker. 
Dantley turned pro after winning a Freshmen Rick Branning and Bill 
gold metal in the Olympics and Hanzlik could also make significant 
Laimbeer left the University for contribution to the team before the 
academic reasons. season is over. Branning, a k6-3 
"Obviously our task will be much guard from Huntington Beach, 
more difficuit after losing players Calif.. averaged 27.4 points per 
the caliber of Adrian Dantley and game last season as a highschool 
Bill Laimbeer." Phelps admits. senior. Hanzlik, a 6-7 swingman, 
"But we'll use a balanced attack, averaged 21.4 points per tilt at 
both offensively and defensively, Beloit Memorial High School. Be­
with eight or nine guys who can do loit, Wis., last season. Speaking of 
the job to try and get that bid.'' his two freshmen, Phelps com­
Don "Duck" Williams is the mented. "I really believe that they leading returning scorer from last will do some things to really help year's squad and will be looked this team this season.'' upon to produce much of the Irish's Notre Dame is fortunate to have scoring punch this season. experience in the forecourt, but 
"Duck really improved over the they severly lack depth. Toby course of last season." Phelps Knight, Bruce Flowers, and Dave noted. ''He gained more confi­Batton will each have to double as dence. his shooting improved and forwards and centers. he caught on to the system in A senior, the 6-8 Knight returns general." to the Irish after having been the 
The 6-3 junior finished last team's second leading rebounder season with a 12.1 scoring average last season, pulling down 6.9 and shot .487 from the floor. boards a game. It was Knight's Despite not being a starter for most tip-in at the buzzer that gave Notre of the season, Williams finished Dame a one-point victory over second to Dantley in playing time, Cincinnati in the opening round of averaging 29 minutes of action the NCAA tournament last season. per contest. Flowers returns to the team after 
Ray "Dice" Martin is paired a successful freshman campaign. with Williams in the backcourt. The 6-8 sophomore will be looked Martin led Notre Dame in assists upon to anchor the Irish defense
.. 

Irish rout Windsor 
underneath the basket and help come through. Now three of them Davis, Steve Sheppard, Lawrence with the rebounding chores. are on the team." 
Boston, Larry Gibson and James 

The third leading scorer (9.1 Phelps feels that the team will Tillman they have as good a ppg) and rebounder (5.8) last reflect his personality. "A coach's frontline as any in the country,'' season, Batton is back for another style will develop a team's style. comments Phelps. season. The 6-9 junior has gained The aggressiveness of my person­Olympic Gold Medalist Steve 
weight this year and hopes to be ality will be reflected in the Sheppard, is the mainstay of the more of a factor close to the basket. aggressiveness of this team." Maryland frontline. He scored 19 "Dave has matured physically," "We're going to try to press points in last year's 69-63 Mary­Phelps observes. "A lot of guys 
everybody, run and shoot," he land win over Notre Dame and is come here at 19 or 20 and just said. "We want to take our the team's leading returning scor­haven't matured physically yet. aggressiveness and speed and er. He also pulled down 8.8 
Dave is stronger this year and apply it to our game." rebounds per game last season and hasn't lost any of his speed or quickness. Hopefully it will help him with his power game." 
Bill Paterno and Randy Haefner will perform strictly at forward for Phelps' crew. 
After being used as a swingman last season, Paterno has returned to his natural position where he figures to be more of a scoring threat. Last season he averaged 8.5 points a game. 
AP w L PI• 1. Michigan 121 I 25 7 58A 2. Mueue!!e 161 21 2 531 3. North C•r. (91 ZS 4 449 4. UCLA (21 27 5 415 5. Indiana 171 32 0 •?2 6. KentuckY 121 20 10 "' 
7. Nevada-Las Veus 20 2 279 8. Marvland 22 6 235 9. Louisville I11 10 I !127 10. Arizona 24 o 206 
11. San Francisco Ill ?2 I 190 12. Cin<:innati 25 6 174 13. Alabama 21 5 101 14. Notre Dame 23 6 87 15. North Car. St. 21 9 76 16. Tennessee 21 6 75 1~ Ru~IB ~ 2 ~ 18. DePaul 20 9 36 19. tJC-Char:olle 24 6 28 20. MiSSCHiri U 5 27 
FiBt-Pia<e votes in parentheses.
Others ~iving votes, listed aloha­betlcally: Arizona State. Austin P•ay,B•vlor. Centenary, HolY Cross, Houston. Kan.as State, Loll!l Beach, Memobl~ St<lf, Miami (OflioJ, Mlnne<Gia, MIS· 
sissippi State, Missouri, Oral Roberts, Orecron State, Pen~, Pepperdlne, Pitt, 
Princeton, Providence, Purdue, 51. John'~. s~uthem Illinois, svrac--Tex­
"The thing that sells me the shot .567 from the field. as Ted, Toltdo. Utah, Vlr~inia. Wast>­
most about this team is their Larry Gibson is the third returning
1 n g r o n , Weshlnvton State, Western Michigan, Wichita. 
attitude," Phelps continued. "We starter. The center led the Terps in have to get things done and we'll rebounding last year and was a
UPI 
W L Pis 
do it." consistent double-figure scorer.
J. Marquette lUI 27 2 300 2. MiChiNn [101 25 1 274 
The Irish will have to start Lawrence Boston, a 6-8 junior, is a 

3. Nortto car. !21 25 4 216 
"doing it" this Saturday as they probably starter at a forward spot
4. UCLA 27 5 206 5. Indiana !41 32 0 162 
travel to College Park, MD. to take opposite Sheppard. He was the 
6. Kentucky 20 10 129 7. Nft.•LIS V"U (3) 29 2 119 
on the University of Maryland. sixth man for Drieselllast season. 
1. Ltuinille 20 8 112 
The Terrapins should provide a Transfer Mike Davis, one of only

70
'· Arizona 24 9 
rugged test for the Irish. "Mary­four junior college players invited
10. Cincinnati 25 ' • 54 
11. Martlanct 22 ' 53 
land has one of the most talented to the Olympic trials last May
12. San Francisco 22 8 loO 13. Tennessee 21 6 44 
teams they've ever had," Phelps should see a great deal of action. 
14. North c..-. St. 21 ' 28 15. Missouri 26 S 18 
said. "They lost John Lucas and Freshman Jo Jo Hunter, a 6-3 
U. Wlclri!a State 18 10 12 
Mo Howard to the pros from last guard, will probably team with
17. Geof!lelown _ 21 7 11 11. Rutgen 3n 2 10 
year's squad, but Brad Davis Davis in the backcourt. 
19. Pennsrtvanlo 1 21 91 
should take up the slack." "For us to win this game,"
20. Purdue 16 11 
Flrsl-,la-;e votes In parenthesu. • 
Brad Davis, a 6-3 junior, started Phelps says, "we've just got to all 28 Maryland games last season beat them off the boards and best in Lefty Dreisell's three-guard them at the running game." 
Haefner, a 6-6 junior from Cin­alignment. He is considered to be Tip-off for the tilt is 11 a.m. and cinnati, was sidelined for most of one of the top playmakers in the will be televised nationally by the last season with a back injury. country, last year having made Spoelstra Basketball Network. 
Rounding out the squad are twice the assists of any of his Saturday's Notre Dame-Southern walk-ons Chris Fabian, Tim Healy teammates. Cal football game will be televised and Bill Sahm. "These are super The Terps should also be strong nationally by ABC only five hours 
kids," Phelps said referring to the up front, as they return three of later. It will mark the first time three. "They've done a super job their forecourt players that started that a major college has appeared for us. We've gone to the student at one time or another for last on national television twice on the body before and they've always season's 22-6 team. "With Mike same day in two different sports. 
ND, Penn look at Gator Bowl 
JACKSONVILLE, FLA. [AP] The Bowl a few years ago, but the carry the Gator Bowl game, had no athletic directors of Penn State and players weren't disposed to make a part in arranging the matchup of Notre Dame said Monday their bowl trip that year," Krause said, the two perennial contenders for schools will bring young and eager "and we stayed home. Only if the the national title. football teams to the Dec. 27 Gator players want to go and we have a Bowl game. competitive team do we go to a 
They're both hoping to be bowl. We do not accept just to go 
Teams shuffle in

coming off upset victories over high to a bowl." ranked Pitt and Southern Cal. Krause said other bowls had 
Notre Dame has an 8-2 record called but Notre Dame considered ·AP top twenty going into its final regular season only the Gator Bowl this year. game against Southern Cal Satur­Czekaj said the Gator Bowl 1. Pittsburgh 39 10-0-0 1 '172 day. Penn State is 7-3 and plays contacted Penn State one minute 2. Michigan 13 10-1-0 1,050 No. 1 Pitt Friday night. after the earliest contact allowed, 3. Southern Cal 7 9-1-1 1,046 
''Wouldn't it be great if we could and the invitation was accepted 4. Georgia 1 9-1-1 807 both win this week,'' said Edward promptly. 5. Maryland 2 11-0-0 790 
W. "Moose" Krause of Notre Each team is guaranteed 6. UCLA 9-1-1 576 Dame. $300,000, the biggest Gator Bowl 7. Houston 7-2-0 550 Edward M. Czekaj of Penn State payoff yet. The previous high was 8. Oklahoma 7-2-1 346 agreed with enthusiasm. $285,000. 9. Texas Tech 8-1-0 333 "We were just delighted to get The athletic directors were here 10. Nebraska 7-2-1 323 the Gator Bowl invitation, espically to make the contracts official and to 11. Texas A&M 8-2-0 319 since it matches us against such a line up housing. 12. Ohio State 8-2-0 281 fine institutiton as Notre Dame," Czekaj said Penn State will arrive 13. Notre Dame 8-2-0 246 Czekaj said. Dec. 19 or 20. Krause said Notre 1 4 . Colorado 8-3-0 153 
It will be the fourth appearance Dame's examination period ends tie Okla St. 7-3-0 153 in the Gator Bowl for Penn State's Dec. 21 and the Irish will come here 16. Penn State 7-3-0 74 Nittany Lions. They beat Georgia that day or the next. 17. Rutgers 10-0-0 40 Tech in 1961, lost to Florida in 1962 The athletic directors said ABC 18. Alabama 7-3-0 29 and tied Florida State in 1967. Television, which telecasts the 19. Miss. St. 9-2-0 15 
"We almost came to the Gator weekly college games and will also tie N. Car. 9-2-0 15 

by Ray O'Brien Sports Writer 
Notre Dame opened their season Sunday with an exhibition charity game sponsored by McDonalds against the Windsor Lancers. As it turned out, a closer match-up would have been the Lancers against the characters from McDonaldland who performed at halftime. 
Understandably, the Irish came out a little slow. Starting for Notre Dame were the Colt, the Apple, Butch, Dice and Duck. On the official line-up card that reads: Batton, Paterno, Flowers, Martin and Williams. 
Billy Paterno open1~d the scoring with a pair of free throws. Batton followed with a jumper from the foul line. Two twenty-footers by Williams upped Notre Dame's total to eight. But Windsor guard Dan 
Devin  came  out  running  and the  
Lancers  moved  inside  for  six  
points.  

That was as close as the team from Canada ever came as the Irish offense began to jell. Williams, Paterno, Knight and Batton started firing the ball in the basket as if it were shooting practice. 
The Irish beat the Lancers off both the offensive aqd defensive boards throughout the night. Batton, who has put on about 20 pounds of muscle over the summer, grabbed rebounds with authority. Windsor's biggest player, center Charlie Pearsall (6'9"), was no match for Batton, Flowers and Knight. 
Windsor played fundamental basketball without the frills American teams are known for. They were totally outmatched but continued to play aggressive and never stopped hustling. The real downfall for the Canadian team came when Coach Digger Phelps sent the Irish into a zone press with eight minutes gone in the game. The Lancers could not seem to 
adjust and followed with a multi­
tude of turnovers. 
Notre Dame's offense began to look like more of a team effort as crisp passes ensued. Dice Martin made his presence known as the team's playmaker again with some 
dazzling passes setting up easy baskets. Paterno seemed to regain his uncanny shooting touch that was so inconsistent last season. The Irish rallied to a 65-29 lead at the half. 
During the halftime ceremonies the McDonaldland heroes nipped the McDonald All-Stars by a score of 8-6. The Hamburglar, who was voted Offensive Player of the night, scored the winning basket with two seconds left. McDonaldland's Grinch was voted the Outstanding Defensive player. 
Notre Dame came out very sloppy in the second half but no one could blame them as the game was becoming a farce. Batton and Knight were dropping in anything coming their way underneath. Williams continued to sink the twenty-footers that he has become renowned for. Freshman Rich Branning showed great quickness and a soft outside touch through­out the second half. Branning should play a vital role in the upcoming season. 
Toward the end of the game Windsor's play became very sloppy. The Lancers could not even get the ball across midcourt. At one point the Irish force five straight turnovers and converted on every one. Notre Dame pulled ahead by 60 (111-51) with 5:57 remaining and Phelps sent in the rest of his substitutes. Freshman Tim "Hawkeye" Healy made his contribution to the game when he spotted Senior walk-on Bill Sahm's contact as both teams convered the hardwood looking for it. Some felt this highlighted this cake-walk for the Irish as the final score read 123-60. 


