

server 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's Vol. XI, No. 35 Wednesday, October 27, 1976 
Brad~mas denies knowing that Park was South Korean intelligence agent 
SOUTH BEND. Ind. (AP) never influenced his votes. 
Park since the Korean 11 a~ a Park has been linked to allega­
Third-ranking House Democrat student at Gcorl(cttll\ n l'ni1cr~it1 John D. Brademas said Tuesday he tions that U.S. congressmen were "about 15 1car~· at.(''·" 11 hen the~ took for granted that rice dealer paid large cash sums as part of a lived in the ·~a me aJ~artmcnt hou~,-: Tongsun Park had connection with Thcv have dined toucthcr "~c1 eraI
South Korean campaign to court 

the South Korean government. but U.S. favors and he reportedly has time:~.·· ~o·nctimc~·~tt P·trk ·~ home. "had no inkling" Park might be an told federal investigators about the 
but Bralkma~ ~aid he· c'!lll~idn~ payments.
intelligence agent. Park an anJuaint;tnc·c·. "n!lt a~ an The nine-term Indiana lawmaker Park denies bribing anyone. and 
intimate friend.·· 
said if he had suspected Park was the South Korean government de­"Sure. 11c talk p••l1tic·~. 01 an agent of the Korean Central nies that it was involved in the c'!lUr~c. Ill' talk pul;tte·~." Bratk Intelligence Agency. as is alleged alleged payment plan OJ" that it ever ma~ ~aid .,f till' dilllll'l'~ ... he'\ al~u 
employed Park.

in publi~hed reports. he would \l'l'\' a11ar•· uf the· h<L~tilitl I ha1c have refused the $4.650 in cam­"Of cout·~e. I know he's a citizen for the p!lltcic~ llf hi~ .J.!lliLTilmc·nt. paign contributions Park gave him of South Korea and he was a If thi~ contrihutiun 11 nc made· in in 1972 and 1974. businessman in Washington and an1· effort t!l pcT~IIadc me to be· 
"I did not regard the contribu­one takes for granted that any fricndil tot he· dic·tattn·~hip of '><Httli tions as coming from the govern­
South Korean businessman in Korea. I think it nH"t be· abundant­ment of South Korea." Brademas, Washington. D.C. has a relation­lv clear that it 11 a~ ll<ll ~uce·c·"ful. .. a longtime foe of South Korea's ship with the South Korean govern­But he aclclcd later: "We ha1·c· militarv dictatorship. said during a ment," Brademas said. not talked South Korean politic-;.
teleph~ne interview last night. He said that the same could be The onlv thinl( I cn·r ~aid to him 
If he had. he added. he "of said of businessmen from France. about South. Kllrl'a i~ that rm course" would have refused to German~· or any other foreign opposed to hi~ government'-, mili­accpt the money. countr~·. tant supprc~silln of human liber­
Brademas. heavily favored to ties."
But. he added. "one docs not

win re-election next Tuesday. said Prc~scd about 11 hcthcr he 11 ould
take for granted that any business­

the contributions. $1.700 in 1972 man from a foreign government accept further dinner invitatiom and $2,950 in 1974. were "perfectly from Bradcma~ ~aid, "I'd
has any relation to the intelligence Park. by the lake. [Photo by joe Burns] public. perfectly legal and fully agency of that govcrnmc.nt." think twice about it. and. in view of reported as required by law" and Bradema\ said he had known thb allegation. I would !>al "No." 
Superintendent candidate 

Richard tells views to students 
bv Mike Towle provide important data and in­age in Indiana is 21. Richard is Staff Reporter formation to the legislature aware that this topic also 
serves regarding educational programs. interest to state educators. He "I think that the superintendent 
In response to issues raised by acknowleges that almost all highof public instruction in Indiana his listeners, Richard proceeded to school principals in Indiana favor should be an individual that people outline some of his own sentiments 
an age limit of 19 to move the can look to for providing strong regarding the real problems which problem out of high schools. It's leadership." loom before educators today. One not a problem with Richard. Presenting his views ranging 
of those deals with · Title IX. ''Rights and ~esponsibilities go
from women's athletics to busing. regarding equal opportunities for together." Richard stated. "Com­
Graham Richard, candidate for men and women in school sports plete adulthood is reached at age
superintendent of public instruc­programs. 
18 and these persons should be 
tion. spoke to a small group of "I personally favor the admin­allowed to drink." fifteen students in the President's 
istration of this law." he added. He went on to say. "This issue is conference room in the Admin­
''There has been a problem in the perceived as a good issue for local istration Building. lack of good, solid athletic pro­politicians to speak out against. If Richard, a Democrat from Fort grams for women and with this in you Notre Dame students want to Wayne. Indiana, spoke for nearly mind. I would support any program try and lower the drinking age,
45 minutes deriving his message that would benefit women's ath­
then you have a tough lobbying job 
from questions directed to him by 
letics." ahead of you."
the group present which included As for the issue of busing, 
Student Body President Mike Richard cites the examples of Gassman and Dean of Students Minneapolis and St. Louis as 
Ford barnstorms across country
James Roemer. representative of good busing Richard stressed his sensitivity ideas. These cities stipulate that to the needs of education at every parents have the right to choose 
as election. day draws near
level and the importance of leader­where and how their kids will go to ship in restoring Indiana's con­school. Richard said, "This is a by Barbara Breitenstein depend." Ford remarked in Los continued, speaking about the fidence in the office he is seeking. constructive way to handle the Political Writer angeles Monday, "on what hap­economv. "That's "hv we're 
"My opponent and the current 
desegregation problem.'' pens on November 2." The Presi­feeling good about Amcric~." Ford superintendent. Harold Nagley. However. the handling of educa­dent "cast his candidacy as a alluded to Lbor Department figureshas submitted three proposals to tional funds could present more of As the PresideQtial campaign crusade for the kind of Gov~rnment which shm1 the rate of inflation has the state Budget Committee during a problem for the superintendent draws to a close. Republican nomi· our forefathers gave us." accord­dropped from 12 to le~~ than six his term. none of which have been candidate and he didn't hesitate to nee Gerald Ford is· "barnstorm­ing to an October 24 New York percent annuall~· during hi~ admin­approved. These proposals were admit it. Times story.
ing" across the United States, istration. 
not well drafted and were so poorly 
"One of the first things I would including a visit to Indiana tomor­Ford contended he represented a This mediabli!l. will aho include developed, that Governor Otis try to do if elected would be to halt row. continuation of the attempt to live ".fern· and Joe Sho11 , .. in Bowen lost confidence in the Office 
the phasing out of government President Ford will speak in balance the Federal budget. pre­which Ford is interviewed by Joe of Superintendent. As a result, money towards education in Indianapolis tomorrow morning, serve international and domestic Garagiola. sporh broadcaster and a 
Indiana could lose up to $41 million Indiana." he proposed. "In addit­security. reduce the involvement of
during the final ten-days which will Furd campaign volunteer. in live this year in federal funds," he 
ion, I think it feasible to get away take him to at least 25 cities in more Washi~gton in the affairs of com­radio and television broadcasts in added. from the property tax as the than a dozen states. munities· and neighborhoods and California. The former high school teacher principal means of funding. At the Ford will concentrate his efforts "keep Ameris;a going in the right In the first of these broadcasts. 
then promised that as the next present time, about 55 percent of on the big states whose electoral direction.'' the President stres~cd his differ­Superintendent, he would be open the funding for schools comes from votes could prove decisive and ences with Carter in three area~ from Budget
to suggestions the property tax." national defense. taxation and for­
where polls and surveys show the Committee and the governor con­Richard continued by calling for race is so close that either Ford or Media blitz eign affairs. Ford claims Carter's 
cerning any proposed legislation 
a state-wide tax where people Jimmy Carter. Democratic candi­foreign policy is "potentially dan­before submitting it. would pay according to their ability date. might win, according to an gerous" and pointed out his "If I had been in his (Nagley's) to pay. Along with his intensive
October 25 Associated Press (AP) cam­opponent's lack of experience in place, I would have asked how the Richard touched on the concept report. paigning. Ford is also waging a foreign affairs. the AP reports. governor wanted my proposals of parochial education. He said The final phase of Ford's cam­media blitz. including a nationwide improved and then would have this type of education is not paign reflects "bouyant optimism" radio broadcast on the Mutual Poll results gone straight to the state legislat­declining, but is healthier than mot and. stresses positive themes. as network. ure to push the proposals. The people think. "It's very important Ford invited Californians and In his speech, Ford will repeat While both candidates are con­
legislature is not being aggres­cluding their campaigns. several
to have a varied and diversified Southerners to attend his inaugural his basic campaign appeal, the AP sive," Richard reiterated. educational system," the Demo­ceremonies in Washington next reports from an advanced text. polls taken for newspapers and The Princeton graduate made it magazines and published over the
cratic candidate conceeded. "I January 20. His invitation came in "America is back at peace again. know he is frustrated with the have consistently supported aid to speeches in those areas the past There's honor in your White House weekend show Carter in the lead, part-time legislature and allowed non-public schools." week. again," Ford said. but by a narrow margin. An AP 
that he woul , "· superintendent, 
Because the minimum drinking The future of America could well "Things are getting better," he [continued on page 2) 


_:2:_______ ___!_th~e~o~b~s::.;e~r-=-v~e=-=r~_ __:_W:...:e:..::d.:.:.ne:.::s==.da~. October 27, 1976 
-----News Briefs--­
~============International 
Police nab 40 suspects 
MARSEILLES, France -A police sweep ranging from 
Paris to the island of Corsica yesterday caught some 40 
suspects in the $8 million to $10 million "robbery of t~e 
centurv" on the French Riviera last summer. pohce 
source.s said. Other suspects were able to escape after 
thev learned from a radio broadcast that detectives 
wc1:e closing in on alleged members of the so-called 
se11cr gang. an investigating magistrate said. 

1::::::::================================National 
Prize winners critidze Ford 
CAMBRIDGE, Mass. -Ten Nobel Prize winners an:used President Ford yesterday of playing politics with American scientific achievcinents, including this year's sweep of the Nobel awards. The scientists, in a joint statement released at Harvard University. said Ford "used the occasion of the award of the Nobel Prizes and the National Medals'of Science to criticize his challenger and to extoll his own accomplishments in '>Upport of science." 

Daylight time ends soon 
WASHINGTON-At 2 a.m. Sunday. Daylight Saving Time ofticiallv ends, meaning mm.t clocks should be set hack one hour to conform with the expiration of DST on that da_v. Residents of Arizona, Hawaii and parts 9f Indiana can 'ignore the time change. They stay on standard time all year. 
•-On Campus Today_. 
':!.00 am ­2 pm 11 15 am & 5 00 pm 
4 00 pill ­
4 lO pm ­
4 30 pm ­
4 JO pm ­
4:30pm­
4:30pm­
5:15 pm ­oW pm­7 00 pill ­
7 ()() Jllll ­7 00 pm ­
7. ()() pill ­
7:00 prn­
7:30pm­
7:30 &I 10 00 pm-
H 00 pm-H:OO pm-
8:00pm­
· 8:15 pm ­8:30pm­9:00pm­9:00pm­
\. 

meeting, "women's council for human relations." 
CCE aud. 

pumpkin sale to supply pumpkin carving contest, 
-sponsored by stanford hall. north dining hall 

field hockey, last game against northwestern, on grass behind baseball field 
lecture, "precambrian geology of glacier national park and vicinity, montana" by dr. robert J. horodyski, nd, rni 101 earth science bldg. 
nieuw1and lectures, "equilibrium and rate studies of enzyme reactions by 31p-nmr" by prof. mildred cohn. rm 123 nieuwland science hall 
seminar, "mitosis in a model system: analysis of spindle dynamics 1n isolated tetrahymena micro­nuclei" by dr. lloyd davidson, suny at buffalo. galvin aud. 
colloquium, "transmission resonance in ferro­magnetic metals and subharmonic generation'-' b{ prof. george c. alexandrakis, univ. of miami. rm 118, nieuwland science hall 
mass, for all wednesday fasters at walsh chapel. immediately following: an informal disGussion about the upcoming election 
meeting, sailing club, 204 eng. 
meeting, pi sigma alpha, 104 o'shag. 
meeting, international students organization, iso 
lounge, Iafortune 
meeting, aisec, 1c Iafortune 
slide presentation, rick schafer, asst. hockey coach. 
grace hall pit 

lecture, "engineering opportunities with proctor and 
gamble" by jim van buren. rm 303 eng. 
lecture, "montessori education for american children" by nancy mccormick rambusch, xavier university. carroll hall 
film, "our hospitality," eng. aud. tickets $1 
film & discussion, "south african essay" outlines background of racial tensions in the republic of south africa. area studies reading rm 1201 lib. _ 
election symposium, howard hall chapel 
hunger coalition, political debate over world hunger coalition concerns. lib. aud. 
lecture, "certainty of scientific progress" by nicholas rescher, univ. of pittsburgh. sponsored by philosophy dept. galvin aud. 
concert, notre dame glee club, washington hall 
lecture, congressman john brademas, grace hall pit 
film, "wait unti I dark," sponsored by lemans hall. little theatre, moreau hall, smc 
lecture,_ .".jobo·.·.zahm's· ·notre· dame'~· by toni· schlereth. basement, zahm hall 



Close race reported by polls 
[continued from page 1] poll taken immediately after last Friday's final debate, showed 49.0 percent of those surveyed were leaning to Ford, and 44.9 percent to Carter, but polls taken for both 'Newsweek and U.S. News and World Report magazines found Carter solidly in the lead. A national survey for Time magazine also showed Carter ahead with 48 percent, while 44 percent favor Ford and 8 percent . are still undecided. However, in statewide polls, the candidates are running nearly even in Michigan, North Carolina and New York. According to a nation­wide Gallup survey, "More people. ·saw Ford as a sound stable person­ali-ty with strong leadership quali-
Counseling Center offers workshops 
The Counseling Center will offer a workshop in Relaxation Training and Anxiety Management. The goals of the workshop are to provide instruction both in relaxa­tion and anxiety controls. 
The workshops, scheduled for Nov. I, 2, 8, 9 and 10, will teach methods such as anxiety manage­ment training (AMT). The purpose of AMT is to help people to begin to control anxiety and put it in the service of more productive goals. 
The workshop will be run in four to five sessions. The first session teaches a simple, effective relaxa­tion technique. Sessions two, three, and four deal with learning to control anxiety. Session five will be a group discussion designed to carry the skills used in the work­shop into everyday life. 
The program, offered free of charge, will be held in room 400 of the Administration building from 7-8:30 pm each night. Anyone interested in the workshop must sign up in the Counseling Center of tt::~ister in room 400. For further info '11ation, phone 1717. 

(irhe Observer1 
Night Editor: Bob f3nnk Asst. Night Editor: Frank' Kebe layout Staff: Rosemary Mills Editorial layout: john Murphy . Sports layout: Val Zurblis Typists: Mel Celeste, joan Martel, Anne Giere 
Night Controller: Don Roos Day Editor: joe Gill Copy Reader: Pat Cole Ad layout: Pat Russell 
lhotographer: joseph Burns J 
ThPOb"'r\t'r '' publi<>ht•d Mondd~ through f nd<l\ dnd WPt•kly durmg thP '>llllltnl'r ~l''>'>IOil. PX< Ppl dunng th<' t•xam <1nd va< .Jt1on rwnod., ThP Ob;t>rVPr,., publ,.,hed by 'tudPnh of tht' Linlv<'r'>ll\ ot NotrP [),Jmp and St Mdry·., CoiiPgt' Subscnpt1on., may bt• purcha,,.d tor $20 pt'r Vt'dr ($10 pt'r 'it'mP'>Ic•r) irorn The Ob'>Pr­vPr, Box Q, I>Jotre Udme, lndldna 46556 SPcond cla~s postagP pa1d, Notn, Danw, lnd1ana 46556 
Th(• Observer 1~ a member of the A-;sonatPd Press All rPproduct1on nghh art> rt•,t'rvPd 
c • 
ties, and "even did better-on the issue of handling foreign policy-­despite his Eastern European blooper,'' the Nov. 1 issue of Newsweek reports. A majority also credited him with strong leadership and experience·. 
The Nixon pardon, however, "apparently hurt" Ford as approxi­mately 25 percent said "it made them less likely 'to support the President." 
Another poll taken by the Louis Harris organization showed Ford benefiting from a sharp reversal of sentiment among college educated voters, AP reported yesterday. 
A Net loss of 42 points by Carter from July to last week was the most drastic shift of preference by any segment of the voting public in the past three months, Harris said. The change was attributed to 
Carter's  failure  to  dispel  key  
doubts about him as  the election  
approached.  

Voters with some college train­ing represent ,43 percent of the electorate, according'to Harris. 
Newspapers endorse candidates 
Both Ford and Carter received endorsements from major news­papers this past week, according to the Oct. 25 New York Times. 
Interested in the LAW? 
Among the larger newspapers supporting the President were The Chicago Tribune, The Philadelphia Inquirer, The Daily News in New York, The Boston Herald-Ameri­can, The Baltimore News-Ameri­can, The Baltimore Sun, The Houston Chronicle and the Sunday Oklahoman in Oklahoma City. 
The former Georgia Governor was endorsed, the story continues, by The New York Times, The St. Louis Post-Dispatch, The Minnea­polis Tribune, The Miami News, The Louisville Courier-Journal and The Louisville Times. 
Several Southern papers are endorsing Ford, including seven daily papers in Georgia. 

Glee Club to sing in Washington Hall 
The Notre Dame Glee Club's Fall concert will be at 8: IS pm Wednes­day, Oct. 27 in Washington Hall. The concert is open to the public and early seating is advised. 
Directed by David Isele, the group recen.tly completed a tour of eastern states. A variety. of religious, collegiate, classical. spir­itual and Broadway show tunes will be presented during the first public concert of the year. 

• WHATS BREWING AT SENIOR BAR? • 

Wednesday 
FRIDAY NIGHT 
Live Music 



HALLOWEEN PARTY 
Thursday .. 
One Free Drink or Beer Live Entertainment 
to anyone in costume return engagement 
Live Music 
Greg Mandolini & Beer Countdown
& 

Dave Shaheen 
9 -10 $.40 
.full

10 -11 $.35


Friday $.30 size
11 -12
• Happy··Hour ·· 12 -1 beer 
•

r 3 -6 5 Be:rs $1 • .,. 
w 
... and in a career? Consider your opportunities as a 
LAWYER'S ,\,SSlST ANT 
You may qualify for :his intensive, 12 
SD 
week, post-graduate course ,,ffered by the UNIVE.RSITY Of -SAN DIEGO in cooperatlofl with the National Center for 
Paralegal Training. 
By specializing in one of the following fields--Corpora· tions; Liti~;ation; Estates, Trusts, ~nd Wills; Public ~er­vice Law; Real Estate and Mortgages--you can prepare yourself for a responsible position as a skilled member of the legal team. 
For a free i:Jro,hure regarding application procedures, program dates, financial aid, employment opportunities, please send the attached to: 
---r-------------------­
UNIVERSITY OF SAN DIEGO Room 318, Serra Hall lawyer's Assistant Program San Diego, CA 92110 (714) 291-6480 Ext. 247 
Name _______________ Phone_____ 
Address._________ Zip_____ 
--------------State ____ 
Spring 1977 -Day Fall1977-Day D Feb. 21 -May 13 D Sept 26 -Dec. 16 
Spring 1977. EveningD Fa111977-Evening D March 22 -Sept. 3 Sept. 15 -March 18 
Summer 1977 -Day D june 13-Aug. 26 







KEN'S DEN 
HAIR STYLING -­MEN &WOMEN ACROSS FROM 1 00 CENTER (LINCOLNWAY WEST IN MISHAWAKA) PHONE 255-6500 APPOINTMENTS PREFERRED 
'V 
-------~ ~­
Wednesday, October 27, 1976 the observer 
Question of SLC's function stirs controversy 
by Joe Gill Staff Reporter 

Controver!.V over the relation­ship betwee~ the Committee on Evaluating Coeducation establish­ed by Fr. James T. Burtchaell, Univ~rsitv Provost. and the Cam­pus Life Committee of the student. Life Council (SLC) led to a long debate over the actual function of the SLC at yesterday's SLC meet­ing. . 
Chairman Mike Casey began the meeting by reading a letter sent by the SLC to Sr. John Miriam Jones, Assistant Provost and chairman of the Committee on Evaluating Co­education. The letter stated the SLC tirst offered the information that it had gathered on coeducation and then asked that the recom­mendations of the new committee be sent to the SLC for evaluation. 
Casey then read her reply. which tirst thanked the SLC for its generosity in sharing information ootained from "the long and hard hours you people put into it." Jones. however. pointed out that their committee's recommenda­tions "must be submitted to the President of the University." Only then. Jones said. would the re­commendations be made available for SLC evaluation. 
At this. Professor Michael Crowe said. "That's the thing (submitting recommendations to the President of the University) that we're sup­
posed  to  be  doing."  That  res­ 
ponse.  Crowe  said.  "is  totally  
inadequate."  

Pete Halye agreed, saying "It is taking away our role. If we're merely doing the same thing as their committee. then there's no purpose for us to do it. We are looking at policies that come under the jurisdiction of student life. and lhis is one of them." 
A debate about the function of the SLC then followed. Members referred to the original charter established in 1969 bv the Board of Trustees and to t-he ·.. DuLac" manual in order to tind out exactly where its jurisaiction lies. It was the third time in the three meetings thjs year that the SLC's function was discussed one way or another. 
The questions as to whether or not the policy accorded by the . Universitv to the Scholastic and WSND came under the auspices of SLC influence were discussed. Along these lines. Br. Just Paczesny said "it probably would have been better if I had come to the SLC concerning WSND" but that "it was a judgement call... 
Sr. Jane Pitz concluded the discussion of function by remarking "It seems that things that of their verv nature involve large numbersof students would come to the SLC." 
The discussion then returned to the original rela.tionship between the two committees. especially concerning the recommendation to the President. Manv of the members seemed to feet" Sr. Jones' committee should tirst submit its recommendations to the SLC. !Jut Br. Pal·zesny pointed out. "The President has a right to get the report before we do. Because I did 

British back Rhodesian blacks 
GENEVA. Switzerland (AP) -Brit­ain backed the demands of Rho­
' dcsia's black leaders 'vcsterdav for ,he release of hundreds of political prisoners they ~!aim arc held without trial in the white-ruled countrv. 
The-action bv the British chair­man of the Rhodesia conference, Ivor Richard. came after Joshua Nkomo and Robert Mugabc in­sisted thev want: 
• 
Immediate freedom for an estimated 600 political prisoners and dctair1ces held for their op­position to the white rulers of the breakaway British colom·. 

• 
An end of what they called "genocide and massacre" of _Zim­babweans. the black name for Rhodesians. 

• 
Richard's replacement as con­ference chairman by a British cabinet minister. Richard is am­bassador to the United Nations. 


Richard addressed a message to Rhodesian Prime Minister Ian Smith advising him of the first two demands. British authorities stressed the demands were not portrayed by Nkomo and Mugabe as "preconditions" for their parti­cipation in the conference that formally opens here tomorrow. 
In his note. Richard. according to a British spokesman. said his government supports the call for the release of the detainees. Britain has in fact done so for some time in private exchanges with Salisbury. 
There-was no immediate official reaction by Smith or his spokesman to the development. 
The Rhodesians in private have shut no doors on the issue. They already have freed a few detainees 
law school interviews 

A representative from ti1e George Washington Law School wilf be conducting interviews at Notre Dame on Monday, Nov. 1. Sign-ups for the interview can be done outside of Room 101 in O'Shaughnessy Hall. 
The representative will also hold a group information session Monday at 7:30 p.m. in Room 104 of 0'Shaughnessy. All students are welcome. 
no.t call this committee. then the report should not go to me." 
Mike Gassman concluded. "We (the SLC) don't have a tina! sav on suggestions. That·~ what w~'ve disc,wered. But we do have a tina! say on rules and regula-tions." Other members then underlined the fact that if any rules and 
and probably will permit several 
others  named  bv  the  four  black  
delegations  here  to  JOIIl  their  
colleagues as advisors.  

Smith's men disavowed nation­alist charges that they arc "massacring" their black oppo­nents now engaged in a guerilla campaign in various parts of Rhodesia. They arc doing no more. officials said. than defending thcm­selv<:s against what they refer to as "terrorist bands" armed and trained by Soviet. Cuban and other Communist instructors. 
Assessments of U.S.. British and South African intcliigcncc authorities agree the main threat to the securit~· of the Smith regim is being directed from Mozambique. 
Ncar the frontier. between 7.000 and 10.000 guerrillas arc said to be under instruction bv Soviet. or Soviet-and Cuban-tr~incd special­ists. Qualified informants repre­senting the United States. Britain and South Africa claim the guer­rillas have all the arms they need. 
Beaux Arts Ball 

The Beaux Arts Ball will be held Saturday, Oct. 30, in the lobby of the architecture building. 
The theme· of this year's gala event will be the "Why­Centennial." Tickets are $2.50 in advance, $3.00 at the door. They will be sold in the Architecture Library from 8 a.m. to 10 p.m. 
The Masquerade Ball. a tradition hundreds of years old originating in the Academic des Beaux Arts in Paris. is open to all students and faculty of the University. 
their cfticienc~· i~ improving. their 
training  inl"ludes  political  educa­ 
tion  of  an  ekmentan·  Marxist  
nature.  
Other  gunrilla  groups.  less  

numerous. arc being trained in Tanzania too. it is said. 
The conference. set up through joint Briti..,h-U.S. effort... is to try to negotiate an interim government prior to the transfer of power from the white minorit~· to the blacks. Secretarv of State Henrv A. Kis..,inger. who did the preliminary ~paclc work in a trip to southern Africa. ha.., said there arc no plans for hi~ travel in,~( to ·Ger1na. 


Homecoming -package to be sold 
Tickets for the 1976 Homecom­ing package will be on sale Thurs­day in the Rathskellar from 12 p.m. toS p.m.according to Homecoming Chairperson Nancy Budds. 
There arc only 235 packages available to be sold on a first come. first serve basis, Only one package will be sold per person. 
Selling for $36. each package includes two G.A. tickets to the 
Notre Damc-Miam1 game Nov. 20. two tickets to the Doobic Brothers concert _that night and a coupon which may be redeemed for a couple's ticket fo•· the semi-formal homecoming dance November !9. 
Depending upon sales. the pack­ages will be available in · the Student Union ticket office after Thursdav. 
l'ickcts for the homecoming dance alone will go on sale Nov. 8. All dance tickets will be couple's tickets. 
Cinema 77 presents: 


BUSTER KEATON 
In 

Our Hospitality Tuesday g Wednesday Oct. 26 and 27 at 7:30 and 10:00 pm engineering auditorium admission $1.00 Special Added Attraction: "Cops" 
\ ..' \ ~~ ~ • I' \-' 
•• •• ... ·' -1' ~ r . \ . • ~ .. : .. ·-. ,• .... -~ :" 
I 

regufations were submitted. their lnlll Ann Tomabo and Hill Seeger. tina! approval had to come from the The 111 o faL·ult\· members nomin­SLC anvwav. ated and aL·n·ptcd \\L'IT .John W. Ga..,s;11an· then a..,ked. "Then it l.ucL'\ and Rn. Man in O'Connell. Administration reprcscntati\ L"S arc
doesn't matter how our committee 

K at ll\ M ~~ d d c n . M a n CIan·
is related to them because it's 

McCab,·. ltl\ Hnll!. Daniel Sara­
going to get back to us an~·way," 

cino. Ed'' ani Sellner. and Rid1ard and the other members assented. Sullivan. Four mnrc fanllt\ mL·m-· The discussion was then closed hers will he chosen. on thi.., matter. The members of the Appeals 
Bdore the mel'ling adjourned. Board wnc alsn released. From Sallv Duffv announced the names the Administratinn were Carl of tl~e .Judicial Board members and Ebey with Vi\ ian Whitehead as abo nominated two faculty mem­alternate: from the facultv were bers. 11 ho were then approved b~· George Brinkln with Waltn Nic­the SLC. The student members gorski a.., alterr{atc: and. from the were Matt Collier. Brian Diamond. studenh were Reed King with Tom Mike Gl~·nn. Mike Sheehan. Mari-Gr~·p a~ alternate. 
SENIOR TRIP GOERS CHECK THE LISTS IN LAFORTUNE LOBBY & RM 168 LE MANS ON THURS-OCT· 29 
FOR YOUR ROOMMATE SITUATIONS 

/_..,/ A"·-e ' 
Tom McMahon 
General Aqen! 

tl.. 



John Wahman 
Agent 

nd 

'Tt·aralilT' t'ar.
I 'l'mt•,tt·r·aftl'r 
'l'lllt''tl'r. rlw 
( ·ollq,!t'\ Ja,tt·-r 
from Fitldif\ 
l nion l.ifl' li:t.., 
het·n rhl' Ill• ,..,, 
arrt'pft'd. 1110..,1 
popular plan on 
cunpu'l'"' all 
OHT \merict. 
I· inti out "In. 
( all tlw 
Fitldil\ l nion 
{.• tilt·•,~· \I"''l'r 
Fidd "" \..,,oriall' 
m 'our art'a: 
'II ; l. ( t•d.~r 
'-outh Bt•nd. Ind. Phorw lH7-. .U27 


• 'll \' ~ • l t ~'
I·. '' 


ACTION EXPRESS sponsored by the OMBUDSMAN open 9:30 to 5:00 Mon.-Fri. 283-7638 
Q. Can you give me the names of some dentists in South Bendl 
A. Dr. Meyer at 317 S Eddy, 233-2349; Dr. Felder at 150 W. Angela, 231-8444; Dr. Lawton at 2217 LWW, 233-6130, and Dr. Nyberg at 9135 Twickenham, 289-4616; are just a few of the area's local dentists. We suggest that you call ahead because some dentists ask for payment in advance. 
Q. When is CommencemenH 
A. Commencement is on Sunday, May 22. 
Q. Is there an Observatory anywhere on campusl 
A YPs, tht're's one on top of the Nieuwland Science Building. 
Q. I lost my J.D. What shall I dol 
A First ot all, check the lost and found in the basement of the Ad Building If it's not there, go to the Registrar's Office on the second floor of the Ad Building They'll issue you a temporary for interim u~e. Then go to the second floor of the South dining Hall for your meal validation. There is a $5.00 fee for the new J.D. 
In last week's Action Express, we listed pizza places with free dPiiwry We'd like to make a correction on Julio's. In the posters distributed on campus the price of delivery is included in the total price. But if you were to go to the restaurant the price would be cheaper Also, this was not a complete list, of course, but only a few examples of places in town 
Any questions. Drop them off at the Ombudsman Office in the LaFortune Student Center or call us at 283-7638. 
Workshop to emphasize awareness of life, values 
A life-planning. values-clarifica­tion workshop will be held Satur­day, Oct. 30. at the University Counseling Center, room 400 of the Administration Building. 
The emphasis of the workshop will be on awareness of where a person is and where he is going. The workshop uses a series of structured exercises to create new awareness of the individual's u­niqueness in terms of values and goals. It will work at integra­ting that awareness into productive life planning. 
Workshop· coordinator Maggie Leonard said, "We hope partici­pants will acquire some skills useful in current and future de­cision making." She emphasized that the workshop is not only 
Town mourns for seamen 
PROVINCETOWN, Mass. (AP)-It was a story as old as the sea: a ship. a storm and the families who waited for the men they would never see again. 
Yesterday. the people of this tiny seaport lowered their flags to half-staff in mourning for the seven fishermen of the schooner Patricia Marie, the latest to vanish in the 
350 years  that  men  have  been  
going  down  to  the  sea  from  
Provincetown.  
Veteran  seamen  in  the  closely  

knit fishing community, mostly of Portug·ucse descent. described the disappearance of the Patricia Marie as "the most tragic fishing accident here since 1908." when 17 men died when the schooner Cora McKay sank off Newfoundland. 
Relatives pleaded with the Coast Guard to resume the search for the bodies of the missing crew mem­bers for a "decent burial. at least." 
The Coast Guard called off the search after 23 hours. 
The body of William King. 45, captain of the 65-foot vessel. was found Monday. three miles off Nauset Beach. 
Only an oil slick marked the spot where the Patricia Marie went down while returning Sunday night with other boats from scalloping off Chatham, 30 miles down Cape Cod. 
The missing were identified by their families as Ernest Cordeiro, 45; Robert Zawalick, 23; Morris Joseph, 47; Joseph's son, Elton, 19; Walter Marshall, 55; and, Richard Oldenquist. _"It's bad enough losing them," 
0

I I I~ •" , •.•" I .I .a f • "·,"·I 11 •1 1'1 •.. f # ,.f 
applicable for students with deci­sions to make now, but also for anyone who would like to increase awareness of what their values and goals are and how they influence decisions. 
"One of the highlights," Leon­ard added, "will be exercises developed by Ira Progoff in his book At a Journal Workshop." These exercises help the student focus on influence in his life of which he is not normally aware. 
The structured portions of the workshop will be 9-11 am, l-3.and 7-9 pm with lireaks for meals and reflection. Interested persons should register with the Counseling Center secretary at 1717. There is no fee. 
said Paul Joseph of his brother 'Mott' and nephew. Elton. "At least bring the bodies in so we can give them a decent burial." 
In bars along the fishing pier, fishermen could only guess what happened to the boat they called 
"the best  equipped  boat in the  
harbor.''  
"The  boat  must  have  been  

loaded to the scuppers." said Steven Zawalick. 30. whose brother was amon_g the crew. 
IBM to interview '77 graduates 
The IBM Corporation. which originally restricted interviewing to December graduates this fall, has lifted the ban. and May graduates may now interview with the corp­oration. 
The sign-up period for IBM is today in the Placemeot Bureau Office. Room 213 in the Admin­istration Building. 
Positions· for IBM are open in sales and marketing, programming. research, design and development engineering, data processing. and systems engin­eering. Interviews will not be 
taken from ROTC students. 
FAST l 

TYPEWRITER J
REPAIR 
2915 Mishawa~ Ave. 
• f 4" • I f '"·' • •.-. 

Electric chair: 'quick, easy' 
by Timothy Harper Associated Press Writer 
MADISON Wis. (AP) ·Theodore Bernstein, an electrical engineer­ing professor, doubles as an after­dinner speaker. His topic: The Electric Chair, Its Origin, History and Use. 
''There were a number of­botched hangings in New York in the 1880's, and people began to look for something better," the University of Wisconsin professor relates. 
·'They thought of shQoting, the garrotte. the guillotine and other things but they were all too messy. They thought of lethal injections but no doctors would do it." 
Then. with the rise in the popularity of electricity, people began being accidentally electrocu­te-d and it seemed quick and easy. 
·'There was a big political thing over how legal electrocutions should be done between Thomas Edison and George Westing­house." says Bernstein. "Edison was against capital punishment but said if it was done it should be done with Westinghouses · s alternating current because it was more dan­gerous. 
Westinghouse was against elec­trocutions with either system, his AC or Edison's DC direct current. Bernstein savs. 
There was·no word for electrocu­tion at the time, and Edison wanted it to be called Westinghousing," he reports. 
Bernstein gives his lectures sev­eral times a year to engineering groups and university seminars. His main interest is electrical and lighting safety. but he began studying the electric chair because people in his audiences continually asked about it. 
He noted. however, some people walk out of the lecture because of the subject. 
Indeed, Berstein himself is be­ginning to find the subject dis­couraging now that a Supreme Court ruling has repocncd the way for usc of the electric chair. 
"I am very much opposed to capital punishment for personal 
'·.·. ,', ·. ·, ·. , .. 

reasons," he says. If they start peddler was electrocuted for killing 
executions again, I will probably his girl friend while both were 
stop my talks. It wouldn't be drunk, Bernstein says. 
interesting any more. It used to be In all, Bernstein says, 4,310 
of historical significance, but now persons, including 21 women. have 
it's getting too close to home." been put to death in the electric 
Bernstein credits a buffalo den­chair. 
tist. A. P. "Old Spark" Southwick. He says many people are fascin­
with spreading the word of the ated by the electric chair, but he 
electric chair and calls him "the still has no answer for those who 
father of the legal electrocution." ask whether it really hurts or not. 
The first legal electric execution "There's no way to know," he 
was in 1890 when a New York fruit says. 
United Way nears goal 
In a report to campaign workers, United Way officials announced a total of $80 I ,I 03 has been raised toward this year's $2,324,612 goal. 
The amount reported Thursday, in a special report issue of the "Reflector." United Way's monthly newsletter, reflects 34.5 percent of goal. 
The campaign began Sept. 28 and the Thursday, Oct. 14, report date is roughly the half way point. 
The dollar amounts reported are broken down into three unit fig­ures. 
Unit I. headed by Ray Larson, which includes major employee firms, and expected to account for 58 percent of the goal, was re­ported as $710,585. 
Unit II, John Schuster. chair­man. which includes a wide variety of companies, reported raising $28,258 to date. 
Unit III. led by Charles Roemer, includes individuals. members of professions, educators, and gov­ernment employees, reported $62.260. 
According to campaign co­chairmen M. Mendel Piser and Louis S. LaPierre, the amount reported is 13 percent more than the same Pacesetter division firms reported raising in 1975. "We'll know more," Piser and LaPierre said. "after next week's major report meeting." 
That meeting is scheduled for the Wesford Inn. formerly the Royal Inn, at 5:00 to 6:30p.m., Oct. 21. 
The co-chairmen also reported a group of public-spirited firms in St. Joseph County set aside a sum to pay for United Way training, Kick-off. the Report Meetings and the Appreciation Dinner. As their way of saying ''Thank you'' to the hard working volunteers who donate their personal time and funds to conduct the United Way campaign, these firms make this contribution in addition to a gen­erous corporate gift to the general campaign drive. 
"It is understood," the co­chairmen continued. "that these funds come from the company's advertising or public relations bud­get ... therefore. they could not be used or be available to United Way as an additional contribution." 
Pi Sigma Alpha to plan events 
Tonight at 7 p.m. in room 104 O'Shaughnessy, there will be a short. one-half hour meeting for the members of Pi Sigma Alpha. the political science honor society. The purpose of this meeting is to plan upcoming events. Members who plan to attend are asked to bring with them some ideas for the inscription on the government major T-shirt. Also. members who have not yet paid their membership fee are asked to bring the fee with them to this meeting. Graduate students who would like to join Pi Sigma Alpha are urged to attend. 

Wednesday, October 27, 1976 the observer 
HPC presents flu application forms 
by Tom Byrne Senior Staff Reporter 

Committee reports and a pre­sentation on the swine flu immun­ization program highlighted the agenda of the weekly meeting of the Hall Presidents Council (HPC), held last night in Farley Hall. 
Joel Burian, student coordinator of the flu vaccination program, distributed application forms to each hall president, noting that interested students should have, the forms completed by Wednesday night. 
"We'd appreciate that those people who want to take the flu shots fill these out and understand them," he emphasized. Each president was given enough forms to register approximately half of their hall, but Burian added that more forms would be made avail­able if necessary. 
Infirmary report discussed 
The council also heard the report of the Infirmary Advisory Board, outlining the results of a recent meeting with Infirmary officials concerning policy reform. Areas where the committee is seeking change include visitation hours for students, excuses from classes, improving facilities for women and improved transportation to the hospital and off-campus medical services. 
Speaking for the board, Farley President Tracy Kee expressed optimism about the prospects for reform, particularly concerning visitation policy. ''They seemed pretty open to having a new policy on that," she told the council. "They're basically concerned with the idea of controlling it, since they don't have the personnel right now. 
Board member Jeanne Sculati, president of Badin, explained that one of the principal aims of the committee was to serve as "a liaison between the halls and the infirmary.'' 
The HPC also heard the report of the Sports Board. presented by Grace President Terry Philbin, concerning the results of their meeting with Dominick Napolitano, director of nonvarsity sports. The board was 'formed to investigate complaints about the program, such as inadequate safety pre­cautions. 
"He (Napolitano) said a doctor at each game would be too expens­ive," explained Philbin. "They'll have two paramedics at every game to take care of anyone that gets hurt. He said he's doing the best they can with the money they have." 
Philbin added that next year Napolitano hopes to devote more time to the distribution of football equipment. with the aim of reduc­ing tnjuries with better fitting uniforms. 
In other business, Farlev Pres­ident Kee announced that she and her hall's acr.demic commissioner, Nancy Cox, have been working on possible alternatives to the 8 a.m. departmental examination sched­ule with Student Bodv President Mike Gassman. HPC Chairman J. 
P. Russell requested that the presidents return to their halls and conduct an "attitude evaluation" conccrrimg the matter. He also expressed his personal support for 
by Marian ffiicny Staff Reporter 

Students must read and fill out a registration form which explains the swine flu vaccine prior to receiving an injection on Thursday, Oct. 28. according to Joel Burian, South Bend Health Department student representative. 
Burian distributed the forms at a Hall Presidents Council meeting Tuesday night. They will be passed out in the dorms by section leaders Wednesday night. 
The vaccines will be given from 8 
a.m. to 4:30p.m. at Stepan Center. 
Students may go anytime during the day to receive one. "There will be two or three lines, and it should be relatively quick,'' Burian stated. 
Students must sign form 
I 

Students will turn in their forms at a registration desk and verify that they read and understood the information before signing it. The checker will determine if the stu­dent is eligible to receive an injection. Those with hypersensi­tivity to egg protein vaccines or who have received another vaccine such as measles or smallpox within the last 14 days should not get a swine flu injection. 
As an extra precaution, Burian stated, a medical screener will give quick examinations to students at the second desk. Those who appear to have colds or a virus will be questioned about any symptoms and have their temperatures taken. 
Students with fevers will not be 
permitted to receive an injection. 
The vaccine will be given at the third desk with a jet air gun. A form with reaction information will 
provided by the government so -

the controversial policy. 
Concession stands, concert tix 
The HPC also received the report of the ad hoc committee on concession stands, a group formed to examine recent concession stand 
Students must fill out registration form before receiving flu shots 
loss of appetite. These symptoms -view. I feel it's a personal matter are usually short in duration, but, if and up to the individual to do what they last more than 48 hours, you he wishes. It really depends on should see a physician." whether the students read the 
"However, I received a vaccina­information and if they talked to tion two weeks ago and have their parents and their family experienced no reactions,'' Burian physician back home." added. 
"In a setting like this where there's a lot of contact every day,Sr. Marion Ruidl, C.S.C., Notre there's a good chance of a viru;>Dame student infirmary adminis­getting passed around like lasttrator, stated that no additional year," Burian added. "The flu is a program will be set up in the moderately severe illness that­infirmary in conjunction with the takes time to recuperate from.
vaccination. "No injections will be Making up classwork, dependinggiven in the infirmary," she stated. 
on the professor and the class, can"It's strictly a St. Joseph County 
be an added burden."
Health project.'' 
"I want to emphasize the fact 
In case of reactions, Ruidl noted, that, if they (students) want the flu "We're not doing anything special, shot, they should understand the but, of course. we're always pre­registration form and fill it out pared for emergencies, whatever beforehand," Burian concluded. they may be. In this case, it's not likely to be anything major, just a 
"That's why we're trying to get the rare person here and there. But forms out quickly, so they can go anyone who might have problems 
through the process quickly and get back to class.''
related to the swine flu shot would surely be cared for-here." If students are unable to receive the vaccine on Thursday, future injections sites will be set up
Injection highly recommended throughout the area, according to Mrs. Roberta Hoffman, health Both Ruidl and Burian encour­educator at the St. Joseph Countyaged students to receive the vac­Health Department. The vaccinescine. "It's available, but it must will be given from 11 a.m. to 3be done freely," stated Ruidl. 

p.m. on Nov. 1 at Scottsdale Mall,"Students must sign the form Nov. 8 in the mini-mall at the Town 
they know what they're receiving." -- and Country Shopping Center in Mishawaka, and Nov. 15 at the 100  
"The  Health  Department  re- Center, Mishawaka.  
commends it, and it's backed by the Ind-iana State Board of Health," Burian stated. "I recommend it, but I want to point out it's from my personal point of  •••••••••  
HOWARD  ELECTION  

SYMPOSIUM 
assignments which forced some halls to operate stands in front of halls other than their own. Of the 12 ofticialconccssion stand sites for football weekends, on!~· five arc situated in front of halls. 
"All 12 locations make about the same amount of money,·· stated Sorin Hall President Dave Bender. chairman of the committee. He explained that the problem could be solved if the halls would guarantee to operate the stand should their name be drawn in the lottery held before each game. 

The council also heard Student Union Administrative Coordinator Mary Charchut describe the pro­cedure for the halls to reserve blocks of ticket'> for the upnm1ing Doobic Brothers cnnccrt. Seating pnonty will be determine! bv lottery. but all hall~ rc4uesting tickets will receive them. aL·cnrding to Charchut. 
"The only -.cab '"u'\1 get arL· padded." she told the uluncil. remarking in additiun that thL· block seating poliL'\ 11 ill nnt hL possible for the ChiL·a~n ~inLT it ha' been arran_14Cd thrnugh a pn>nwtLT. restricting the numhLT of ~eat' allotted to the Student l'ninn. 
Also speaking tn till' HI'C Ia'! night was Maggie Leonard. repre­senting the Notre Dame Counwl­ing Center. whn anmntnL'L'd an upcoming Values ClarifiL·ati"n and Life Planning Worblwp. lntL'tllkd for "an\'lHlL' \dW 11ants tn kn"" more about him..,l'IL .. the 11nrkshnp stresses the role of valllL'' in planning for the f'tnure. 
In another matter. Dillon Presi­dent Tom O'Neill proposed that future disbursement of hall improvement funds be acL·om plished bv dividing L'lJUalh among the halls. "It can't be l'fkcti\cl~· done by need.·· he del'lared. adding that \\hill' some halls used their money to purd1ase items such as television sets. his hall "doesn't even have a stud\· lounge." Other council members ddended the budget committee. 
O'Neill will formali.te a proposal which will be considered at next week's meeting. 

*The

Observer 
The Observer is looking for people to deliver the pa­per on Thursdays, and every other week on Mon., Wed. and Fri. Call 8661 if interes­ted. 


The Student Players & ND Social Commission presents: 
Jacques Brei Is Alive And Well And Living In Paris by Blau and Shuman, Music By Jacque Brei 
also be distributed. The forms will alert students to possible after­
At LaFortune Rathskellar, The Nazz
DISCUSSION · Goerner, Nicgorski,
effects of the vaccine. "The reactions are pretty standard,'' Burian stated. "They range from a 
admission: $1.00
Roos, Toohey
kind of sore arm at the site of the 
injection to the regular type of 
time: 8:30pm
. WEDNESDA.Y. oc;r 27, 8:00pm,. I. 
• t. ~

symptoms .for. flu-~fever of 101 
.. " "' :"'... ~· .-. HOWAR·o. HAte·... .
degrees or less, chills, nausea, and. 
the observer Wednesday, October 27, 1976 
urban plunge: an inner city experience 
"I value the amount of awareness gained Kitty also attended a senior citizens from my experience so highly, I would have hot-lunch program, a drug center, a gone even if it wasn't a one-credit course '' grammar school, and talked with a poverty was the response Notre Dame sophomo~e lawyer and a city planner. Kitty Barrett ~ad about the 'Urban Plunge' She visited Clinton's community center 
she made last year. known as the Hartley House. This house 
This week marks the campaign for serves as an advocacy center for adults who registration for another 'Urban Plunge,' a need information about financial and one-credit hour course sponsored by CILA personal help. "An information center (a volunteer organization concerned with such as this is necessary so that people can social action, composed of members of the find the precise place to go for help," Notre Dame/St. Mary's community) offer­stated Kitty. "The agencies initiated by ed to both Notre Dame and St. Mary's the Federal government to help these students over Christmas break. people lack coordination and people get the 
Kitty attended the 'Urban Plunge' in run-a,round when they go to these agencies Clinton. a poor neighborhood in New York for help." City. The course lasted for two days, 
Hartley House also has a youth recrea­starting on a Sunday and ending on tion program. "The youths don't considerTuesday. During that time she lived in a their apartments as home because they aresmall apartment with another girl and two so dilapidated. They spend their time onnuns from Sacred Heart Catholic Church, a 
the streets. The recreation program is setpoor parish in Clinton. 
up to constructively get youths off the !he two days were spent observing streest," said Kitty.
Clinton and visiting various people in­Kitty is from a small town in Connecticut volved with inner-city rehabilitation pro­and had never spent much time in a big city Jects. Kitty visited two workers from before going on 'Urban Plunge.' "I had Project Find. a housing project. 
always viewed the inner-city poor from an '·I saw how much the poor are relentless­upper middle-class point of view," she ly exploited by their landlords," reflected reflected. " 'Urban Plunge' gave me theKitty. "The landlords try to keep out opportunity to see the problems from an senior citizens because the law requires inner-city viewpoint. It gave me a muchlower rates for them. 
more realistic picture than just reading about it in a magazine or newspaper."
"These landlords also know that the people are desperate for housing and have The people who worked for the various to live there despite how poor living programs were viewed by Kitty as excep­
conditions are or how unreasonably high tionally dedicated. "They had to have a the rent is. The courts seem to favor the large amount of patience to work through! landlords, so the hope for correction falls the various Federal programs. It takes a 
on the social workers. The two workers I special type of person to do that sort of talked to from Project Find were both work.'' involved in trying to organize the tenants to Most of the workers lived in the be independent of the landlords." 
kansas. 

gregg bangs 
Since Kansas put out their first album work are very tight arrangments. ln a years ago, they have constantly been studio this can easily be arranged, for the country, particulary the mid­seperate recorded tracks are responsible 
promote themselves. They have for the finished products. usually been a back-up band and In concert, however, tightness must be receive a few lines, if anything, in the achieved through talent as a musician, and 
•s:uo:sequent concert reviews. So it was mastery of the material. Kansas showed ironic at the Oct. 10 show they Sunday that their endless touring has not Morris Civic when violinist and gone for naught, for their performance had ist Robbie Steinhardt announced both requirements of a "tight" show. it was great to play the top bill at For the opening and closing, Kansas put otre Dame." on a little stage show, a Ia Genesis or Yes. It was a shame that the concert occurred The stage set-up was behind a black · ng October break, because Kansas curtain when Walsh and Livgren started full advantage of their star billing and pl.aying a dual keyboard piece that was a a very professional. yet exciting, medley of songs form the band's history . .,,,..,n,,.v of their brand of music. After this overture, the curtain ope_ned to a new, violin based piece off their newly nsas can probably best be described as a released album, Left Overature. At the hard rock band. Their end of the encore, the lights were dimmed s range from Emerson, Lake and and the band left to the recorded sound of a and Yes to the Electric Light clarinet and piano solo. \~"·ho•·•~~ to the Who and even to It's a Between the theatrics, though, was 
Day (for their usage of compli­nothing but music--loud music. (In fact, ting vocals with a sole violin). Most of 
the only complaint of the night was that the 
ir creative input comes from Steinhardt, amp level was much too high for Morris boardist, vocalist and percussionist ' Civic). Most of the material came from ve Walsh and guitarist-keyboardist • 
their most popular album Masque, and the Livgren. These three compose and 
new album. However, "Down the Road" lead songs that depend on driving, often 
and the title cut were included from their dual. lead guitars and keyboards, a hard Song for America album. k rhythm section, Steinhardt's violin 
It is hard to single any of the individual and very tight vocal interplay between 
members out for dominating a particular song, because each has alarge role to play Walsh and Steinhardt. 
in the multi-layered arrangements of each 
Obvious the key to making 
. . don deary 
Clinton. It was th1s type of apartment that 

K!tty lived in. She noted, "Living right w1th the poor really added to the experi­en.::e. It gave me a more realistic experience than just driving by in a car would. I could feel the tension that existed living in that neighborhood. There were actually rocks thrown through some of the windows of the building we were staying 
in." 

Kitty became interested in 'Urban Plunge' through CILA. Since attending the 'Urban Plunge' she has become more interested in the type of work CILA is involved in. ­
She plans to work this year through CILA at the Justice and Peace Center in downtown South Bend. She also added "I hope to go on one of CILA's sum~er projects working for the entire summer with inner-city programs like the ones I visited on 'Urban Plunge'." 
Kitty stated that the goal of 'Urban ~lu~ge' is not to save the world. "The goal IS directed toward self-education. I not only became aware of the people's needs but realized some of my own needs. Going on 'Urban Plunge' has helped show me where I want to go with my life." 
The official course names for this year's 'Urban Plunge' are "The Church and Social Action" at Notre Dame and "Reli­gion and Values" at St. Mary's. The course will be graded as satisfactory or unsatisfactory. Interested students from Notre Dame can pick up an application and course description sheet at 330 O'Shaugh­nessy Hall any time this week. Interested stud~nt~ at St. Mary's can pick up applicatiOn and course description at 134 
Madaleva Hall. Applications must be 
returned to the same offices by this Friday, 
Oct. 29. 

song. Livgren. In the meantime, Steinhardt 
An excellent example of this was ''Sweet giving a swirling violin counter harmony to Child of Innocence." Livgren gave a Walsh. What was amazing was that this !fownshend style gui'tar introduction into kept up through several different tempos. the song and then combined with co-lead Kansas kept their arrangement tight guitarist Rich Williams to play a dula lead their pace up in every cut. Their encore throughout much of the song. Steinhardt. and most popular song, "Song for Amer­and Walsh traded off sining lead vocals ica" was simply the last piece to a very throughout the song. While one was sing-puzzle. 
ing the other was generally soloing. The only puzzle not resolved that night is However, the band's tightness was why Kansas has to play back-up band to 
particulary evident in the middle of the groups li~e Ted Nugent or Bob Seagren. song. Walsh was soloing on quite a Perhaps 1f they get a chance to headline number of keyboards and was backed up more shows, their back-up days will be 
by the dual guitars of Williams and 
movies 

marathon man 
dauid o'keefe 

the covers. Hut what is most unique and takes a band-aid box from a bank vault. refreshing is that Marathon Man is 
Wordlessly, he hands it off to an unseen bone-chilling without becoming blood­accomplice outside the bank. Later, when curdling. It is violent. relentlessly so. but his Mercedes stalls on a midtown-Man­
An elderly man with a German accent it is not the unknowable violence of sharks 

hattan street. he becomes involved in a or devils. It is the verv real violence of fiery argument with another driver that men. ruthless, driven m~n. ends in a gruesome crash that kills them These are the men who are after Tom both. The television announcer identifies 
Levi (Dustin Hoffman). He is an extremely 
one of the dead men as the brother of bright young man whose goals are to write infamous Nazi war criminal Christian Zell, his doctoral dissertation (on tyranny in presumed dead for many years. 
American politics). and to someday win a A handsome. middle-aged executive is 
marathon. He is dedicated to both riding a cab through the traffic-choked ~xclusivel~ unti~ he is suddenly plunged streets of Paris. He goes to his hotel. locks ~nto_ the mcrcd1bly cruel and confusing himself in his room and unwraps a box of 
mtngue. He can trust no one; he must candy. He removes the chocolates and fight or die at the hands of persons replaces the bottom layer with a small box. 
unknown. And therein lies the awesome power of the film: we arc terrified, but it is 
A band-aid box. a shared terror. It is the unremitting terror
A young man is jogging in Central Park. 

of not knowing who is chasing you or why,
He is a marathon man, sweating, puffing. He checks his stopwatch as he runs. 
of not knowing who is telling the Jruth. of Another runner comes up behind him. 
not knowing who is your friend if you have "Behind schedule?" he taunts. Th~ young 
one. It is the classic terror of being alone in the dark.
man chases but cannot overcome him. He Dust~n Hoffman is simply superb. He
thr~ws his arms in the air and collapses agamst a fence to catch his breath. 
does With the character of Tom Levi what In the middle of the South American 
he di? with Ben Braddock, betraying little jungle lives a white-haired old gentleman. 
emotton but giving every indication that His house is curiously luxurious and 
~here are very strong emotional and mtellectual stores within him. ready toEuropean. He is very dignified, rather quiet and pensive. The prisoners in the expl?de_ whe~ ignited. He is powerfully convmcmg Without heing overpowering. 
concentration campus used to call him "Der weisse Angel," the White Angel. 
Christian Zell is played by Lawrence Olivier. who appearance in any ttlm 1s not a 
Under the tight, neat direction of John performance but a presence. Zel is sinister Schlesinger (The Day of the Locust, a?d serene at t~e same time, a man who by Midnight Cowboy), these stories are h1s own admission is far too old and much ultimately braided into a single thread of a too smart to fight. plot that twists and loops and occasionally Despite the fact that the film sometimes gets tied up in knots. Marathon Man is as becomes a faint bit slick and sticky, the taut and suspenseful as any thriller has performances make Marathon Man what it been in a long time. William Goldman's is. And what it is is a highly-charged · story is almost scientific in its calculation, ~hriller of the first degree, and a refresh­precision engineered to scare you under mgly good one at that. 



These three candidates go before the voters next lOJesday in the quadrennial presidential election. Pictured below are some of the candidates of past campaigns. 
Try to remember those Tuesdays in November 

"*The Observer an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's 
The Observer JS published by students of the University of Notn• Dame and St Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of either institution The news is reported a~ accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials reprt"ient the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Comnwntarie'i, opinions and letters are the views of their duthor~ Column space is available to all members of the <ommun 1ty, and letters are encouraged to promote the free PxprP~~•on of vdrying opinions on campus. 
l3usiness Manager Tom Fronuak Advertising Manager Mike Miller Photo Editor Tony Chifari Production Manager Martha L. Fanning 
~ 

Box Q, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 Phones: (219) 283-8661 [ND] (219) 284-5365 [SMC] 
EDITORIAL BOARD Thomas O'Neil Editor-in-Chief . Dan Sanchez Managing Editor 
Chris Smith Asst. Managing Ed. 
Cregg Bangs Executive Editor Val Zurblis Executive Editor Pat Hanifin Editorial Editor Bob Mader Exec. News Editor 
Maureen Flynn Campus Editor Marti Hogan St. Mary's Editor Don Reimer Copy Editor Tim O'Reiley Features Editor F-red Herbst Sports Editor 
~ Wednesday, October 27, 1976 ...J seriousIy, foIks !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
Mollifying The Populace 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiart b u chwaId 
WA~HING I ON--With everyone misspcaking these days "clarifica­
tion experts" have been put on a 24-hour shift answering mail from groups that have been offended by something someone has said. 
Since everyone is so busy cam­paigning I thought I might provide '>omc form letter that could be sent out to mollify the populace. 
This is one President Ford's

i people could send . • Dear Mrs. Gronowski. 
The President was very happy to receive your letter concerning his remarks where he all.uded to the fact that he was proud that Poland was not dominated by the Soviet Union. 
What he meant to say, in the heat of the debate. was that he was proud that the Soviet people were not dominated by Poland. 
If President Fm : is re-eiected his first act will be to SL 1d Secretary of State Henry Kissinger to Warsaw to see if Poland is dominated by anybody. If Mr. Kissinger discov­ers that it 1s, he will give Poland seven nuclear power plants, six squadrons of F-16 fighter planes and 12 missile cruisers. 
The President believes a strong Poland is essential to the defense of the free world. and will do every­thing in his power to see that it never becomes a Communist satel­lite. 
Sincerely yours, 
***** 
This is one Gov. Carter's people could mail out. 
Dear Mr. Archibald. 
Thank ypu for your kind letter concerning Gov. Carter's interview in Playboy magazine. I would like to explain to you that Mr. Carter did not say he was lusting after your wife. What he said was that he has lusted after women in his heart but God has always _forgiven him. 
The governor, according to our records. has. never met your wife, and therefore the possibility of him lusting after her is out of the question. 

This is nothing against your wife as it's possible that if the governor had met her he might have committed adultery in his heart. 
But this is a hypothetical ques­tion, and there is no reason for you to be suspicious of your wife or the governor. To put your mind at 
ease  we  have  rescheduled  Mr.  
Carter's  itinerary  so  he  will  not  
campaign in  Mayville, Kan.,  this  
year:  

Sincerely, ***** 
The final letter could be sent out by the Pentagon. 
Dear Rabbi Schwartz. 
General Brown has asked me to assure you he does not consider Israel a burden to the United States. What he meant to say was that some of his best friends were burdens--or some of his best bur­dens were friends--but in any case they were .all Jews. 
Yours truly, 
~P.O.BOXQ~ 
DOONESBURY 
by Garry Trudeau 


Tf-~ II rr:JJ JJ/!-lrr:JI!
:J\~_rg~~~ 
opinion 

Vote! 
._iiiiiiiiiii_._.._robertjacques 

Dear Editor: 
As acting chairperson of MECHA (Movimiento Estudiantil Chicano de Atzlan). I would like to ~xpress my complete dissatisfac­tion with the operation of Student Activities in two areas: the allocation of funds. and the deter­mination of football game on :ampus concessions. I feel that these activities are carried on :liscriminatorily towards minority Jrganizations on campus. 
Our budget proposal for 1976-77 was based on activities designed to bring a broader cultural awareness Jf our culture to the Notre Dame :ommunitv and to aid us in the ·eLTUitmc~t of more Mexican-Am­~ricans to Notre Dame~ Having 1cen allocated one-tenth of our Jroposal. this now becomes impos­;ible. since that money is barely enough to cover the operating co_sts 
of just being a club. This situation now proves to us that our task is a bigger one than we expected. It now becomes apparent that the Notre Dame community is ignorant of our purpose at Notre Dame and of our problems as a minority. 
It is bad enough when you do not have any money to work with but the problem becomes magnified when you are also deprived of opportunities to earn thts money. We operated a concession stand the morning of the Purdue game of which the profits were donated to El Campi to Day Care Center as one of our community activities. How­ever,, I have since found out that we will not be given that same fund-raising opportunity again this year. Many visitors to N.D. bought and loved our food and ~xpressed their opinions on how progressive 
N.D. was in it!' representatiorJ of all American racial and ethnic groups. Many people expressed hopes of enjoying our food at another home game. Too bad this was just once-in-a-year progressivism. 

This backwardness of ideas was highlighted by the suggestion by a member of Student Activities that we join the International Student Association. Evidently. such indiv­iduals running student activities have not yet realized that we are United States citizens and that we are not from some "foreign" country. 
Because of the attitude and ignorance displayed by such a remark and by the concession stand decision, both that decision and the disastrous budget cut should, by rights, be reconsidered. 
William T. A viia Acting Chairperson 

• ·' 1 ........ ' 
• " •. ~· .• •' ,t 
HONE5T IUITII YtJf.4 YOtJ ,/JJ"'fE:R £VC/<YH-{!Afj fA/HAT, YOU'Ve /A'JV£FOr< RICK? 

fA/&U, I YOtJ 010?OH, I-IJ.U£P MYSUF RICK.1 7HAT'5 
FO~ IT. AU 7HAT'5 
What if they gave an election a and no one voted? 
With popular opinion at . the level it is, this will never happen; the fear of guilt is too great. But with the increasing demand for the option of "Nobody listed above" being placed on the ballot, the possibility of some interesting con­sequences arises. ·What if nobody was elected as head of state ... ? 
Polls show that popularity is high against all of the candidates. Yet no one expects the unexpected. The ballots are totall((d; npbody has won. Not nobody. But 'Nobody'. The politicians are up in arms. They call for recount after recount but to no avail; Nobody has won by a slim margin. Appeals are filed with the high courts. They rule in the people's favor, as is their wont: Nobody has been elected to the next term of office. 
At the inauguration the politi­cians hope that no one will show so that they can call for new elections. To their dismay; 32 people show. each claiming that he is "nobody listed above." As they are being sworn in to office, one politician grabs a President and shouts, "What right have you to office?" He replies, "I've always been a nothing, a nobody. Everyone said so. So when my country called for me, I came. I just want to do my duty." These politicians cry in desperation; others across the country shiver in fear--they may be 
' next. 
. The t1rst Executive Decree is that instead of rotating the executive office, thirty-one more will be built. 
In order to finance the construc­tion, a new tax is levied (the legislature readily agreed; how could they argue with 32 stubborn presidents -one is bad enough). The tax collectors are sent out. 
"Nobody has levied a new tax. I've come to collect it." "I'd love to pay it but how can I give something to nobody. Now, now. It's obvious. I can't force myself to give to nobody. Besides, if I wanted to see taxes raised, I would raise them myself, being "nobody listed above." I promise, however, that if I ever decide to, I'll hire you to collect them. Good day." 
The Presidents decide to reduce their staffs in order to get the money. In the process of laying off the paper-pushers, the GNP rises as otherwise non-productive people are forced to do meaningful work. The economy becomes healthier 
· and stronger.. The Pre~td,ents h~'\e. almost unanimous support of the people, as never before. 

The next year the nation's neigh­bor and enemy decides to attack ' the country. The forces are ready; victory is imminent. Then a petty officer raised the point. "How can we declare war on nobody? That would be ridiculous. Our honor would be tarnished. We would be the butt of the world's jokes.'· The General Staff flies into a quandry. Studies are done, . Medals~ are awarded. The invasion is postponed until after the next election with everyone hoping that nobody loses it. 
The-nation· s productivity contin­ues to rise. To show their interest in the people, the Presidents have the capitol rented out to local farmers as a produce market. 
At the midpoint of the term the popularity ef the Presidents is UHprecedented. People never criti­cize anything the administration has done. The administration has done nothing. Everyone is happy. 
But already the end is near. The unemployed politicians have ban­ded together to re-establish them­selves. They fill the media and the minds of the people with horrors of war and unemployment and very heavy taxes. They argue that something so good as the times are now can't last. Only they can prevent the collapse from being too severe. The people shiver for fear in front of their televisions. 
At the next election Nobody loses. The politicians regain office. 
Their promises are fulfilled: the collapse occurs but it is no worse than in-years before the Nobody administration. With the power 
. typical of a government, records of the Nobody years are 'lost' or altered. The people are propagan­dized into believiRg that those times weren't all that good, or maybe just a little better than usual, and only because of past politicians' administrations. 
Since then the politicians haven't been in the breadlines. The people have problems again -but if they didn't, what would the politicians do? 
The moral to the story is that you might as well vote for Somebody, even if you can vote for Nobody. If somebody is a nobody. he is also eligible. If the one you vote for wins, there is some consolation in it. If he loses, you can blame everything possible (gaining twen­ty pounds, the cat died, prices going up, etc.) on the victor. Regardless of outcome, the one 
, 1
who votes wins. • Therefore, vote! 

' ' 
-------~-------~----------­
-------------------. 
Wednesday, October 27, 1976 the observer
Nixon lawyers to appeal 
Court to allow broadcast of Watergate tapes 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The U.S. Involved are 30 tapes played ted for the same reason as Sirica Bazelon contered that by writing: The ruling affect~ only the tape~ • Court of Appeals cleared the way during the three-month trial. did earlier -that appeals should "It is conceded that one who that are in the trial record. not the yesterday for broadcasting of the Transcripts of the tapes were first be exhausted. listens to the tapes -the inflections, thousands of hour~ of conH'r\a­Nixon White House tapes played at published in whole or in part while Nixon's l1;1wyers had argued, pauses. emphasis and the like, will tions stored under eourt seal with 
'l
the Watergate cover-up trial. the trial was in progress. since the court transcripts already be better able to understand the Nixon's presidential paper\. The written be
But lawyers for former President The opinion, by Chief are public, nothing would conversations than one who onlv release of that material i\ being Richard M. Nixon promptly an­Judge David L. Bazelon, said by served by offering the actual , reads the written transcripts t'hat fought by Nixon in the Supreme nounced they will appeal definition the tapes no longer are recordings to the public. alread_v have been published." ' Court.
further confidential and Nixon, who op­because "the effect...is to permit poses their release, "is left tothe commercial exploitation of the argue that it somehow would berecordings of presidential conver­'unseemly' to allow tapes of Whitesations subpoenaed for use in a House conversations to be market­criminal trial.·' 

ed and publicly distributed."


The appeals court ruled that But, said Bazelon, "this is 
l

"the tapes played at trial are no essentially a question of taste andlonger confidential." The 2-1 provides a singularly weak basis fordecision returned the case to U.S. 
J
a court to interfere with the

District Judge John J. Sirica who exercise of a long-established
ll}USt develop a plan for release of common law right...
the recordings. "Distribution should be prompt. "In any event, in light of the and on an equal basis. to all strong interests underlying the 


persons desiring copies,'' the court common law right to inspect judi­said. cial records -interests especialy The ruling also permits the sale important here given the national 
of the tapes as recordings. 
concern over Watergate, we cannot · Included is the so-called "smo­say that Judge Gesell abused his king gun" tape of June 23. 1972 
discretion... '· ' when Nixon ordered that the FBI's 
The case was sent back to Sirica investigation of the Watergate 
with instructions that plans be break-in. six days earlier, be formulated for orderly and equita­derailed. 
ble release of the tapes. Also among the tapes played at 
U.S. District Judge Robert the trial is the March 21. 1973 Merhige of Virginia. who sat as a 
Serving Ptzza Every Evening

warning. by former Nixon counsel member of the appeals court panel. 
John Dean. that there was· a cancer 
concurred with Bazelon. Circuit on the presidency. Judge George MacKinnon dissen-
The three television networks. the Public Broadcasting System. a news directors' organization and 
Warner Communictions. Inc .. a manufacturer of phonograph re­cords. had asked to reproduce the tapes. 


Initially. U.S. District Judge Gerhard A. Gesell had ruled that could be done. provided the appli­
Atlanta's Hyatt Refeney
cants came up vi·ith a plan to prevent commercialization or un­dignified use. Later he reviewed 
Bl'iltfs You FootballWeellends 
proposals and found them unac­
ceptable. 
U.S. District Judge John J. 

Wi-hAll. TheTrimmitlfs. 
sirica. who presided over the 
cover-up trial. then denied the 
I~ you ve already built up an occupancy. Or$49 per person for 
applications. saying any such ac­
appetite for those out of town two nights' lodg!ng ana two 
tion had to wait until appeals were 
gridiron contests, you're gonna bruncfies. And that's not a ball 
exhausted by the four men.convict­
rove our football weekend specials. . park figure-everything's in-' 
ed in the case. John N. Mitchell. H. 
For starters, there's a hearty brunch dudecffrom taxes to free parking.
R. 'Haldeman. John D. Ehrlichman 
and Robert C. Mardian. 
of meats, fruits andall the trim~ So no matter where your 
The appeals court recently up-' 
ming~ that's piled so high~ it's fit training cam pis located, you can 
held the convictions of all except 
Mardian. but all have said they 
for a linebacKer. Then you board call the "Regency in Atlanta at (404) 
\\:ould carry the appeals process to 
our team bus for a victory ride to 577-1234, or1-800-228-9000gets
the Supreme Court. 
and from !hestadiu~: Youlll stay you Hyatt worldwide and toll free. at Atlanta smostexCitmg Call today. Everything will
Rambusch to talk 
hotel. seem just a little bitbetter at _r The whole ballgame is the Hyatt Regency Atlanta. 
on education 

JUSt$25per person, aouble 
Because it is. 
Nancv McCormick Rambusch, visiting. professor of education at Xavier University. Cincinnati. Ohio HYATT REGENCY ATLANTA
will speak on · · I'vtontessori Educa­In Pl.?ach_tree C~.?nter
tion for American Children' Wed­nesday. Oct. 27 at St. Mary's College. 
The lecture, scheduled for 7:30 

p.m. in Carroll Hall. Madeleva · Memorial Building. is the first in I 
the 1976-77 Humanistic Studies Lecture Series. 
Rambusch received her B.A.· degree from the University of, Toronto and her M.A. degree from Columbia University. She also attended the Montessori Training Center in London where she re­ceived her Mo~tessori certification. , 
She is the author of "Learning Ho w to Lears-An American Approach to Montessori. .. 
The lecture is ()pen to the public without charge. 
Hayride planned 
The Senior Class is sponsoring a hayride and halloween party. Thursday, October 28, from 9 pm to I am. 
The party will be held on a farm in Michigan and there will be a hayride and bonfire. Hot dogs and beer will be served. 
Tickets are $2.50 per person and must be purchased in advance at the dining halls during the evening meals until Thursday night. Transportation will not be pro­vided. A map is included on the back of the ticket. 



Gregg awaits execution; 'moral clamor' grows 

by Jon Stewert Pacific News Service 

By Christmas 1976, Leon Troy 
Gregg. 27, may already have 
become the first man to have been 
legally executed in the U.S. in 
almo~t I0 years. 
Gregg. whose name is engraved 
on the Supreme court's historic 
.July 2. 1976. decision on capital 
punishment (Gregg v. Gcorgia)-­
~harc-. the pale green death row 
cell~ of Georgia·., Reidsville State 
Pri-.on with .ll other condemned 
men. All lo-.t what. ma.v have been 
their la-.t and he~t constitutional 
d1allcnge ot the death penalty on 
Oct. 4. 
On that date. the Supreme Court 
rdu-.ed. in a ca-.ual two sentence 
arlllllUill'L'ment. to reconsider its 
deci-.ion to permit the death penal­
ty for murder under certain statu­
tory condition-.. 
While the court's decision to 
approve the death penalty applies 
to on!~· three states· (Georgia, 
Florida and Texa.'>) with 147 death 
row inmate~. attorneys for the 
NAACP Legal Defense Fund be­
lieve the court'~ green light will 
probably open the door for another 
Hl0-400 execution~ in up to 14 other 
states with death statutes similar to 
those upheld in .July. 
Several hundred other death row 
inmates will remain in legal limbo 
in states such a~ California (56 on 
death row). where the constitution­
ality of the statutes is uncertain. 
David Kendall. attorney for the 

NAACP. says Gregg and 21 other 
inmates in Georgia, Florida and 
Texas, whose rehearing petitions 
were specifically denied Oct. 4. 
r.cprescnt "the cases furthest ad­
vanced procedurally. In these 
cases executions could come as 
early as six to eight weeks." 
Within days after the .July 2 court 

decision, the week of the nation's 
bicentennial observance, workers 
at Reidsville State Prison began 
rewiring the electric chair. 
Decision Sparks New Debate 

.The imminence of an actual execution in this country has 
Hunger Coalition to dine 
The Notre Dame World Hunger 
Coalition will sponsor a vegetarian 
dinner and slide presentation on 
National UNICEF Day, Sunday, 
Oct. 31, 1976. The dinner will take 
place from 5:30 p.m. to 7 p.m. in 
the recreation room in the base­
ment of Lewis Hall. 
Greg Grammelspacher will pre­
sent the slide show about his 
summer experience working in 
Bangladesh at the Holy Cross 
Mission. Grammelspacher collec­
ted for the Coalition outside the St. 
Mary's dining hall last year. 
"All ''egetarians, Hunger Coali­tion members, Notre Dame and St. Mary's students and faculty are welcome," Kitty Warner, Coalition representative announced. 
Those planning to attend are urged to contact Carin at 7607 or the Volunteer Service office on the second floor of the LaFortune Center. 
ERRATUM 
The Glee 
Club Concert 
TONIGHT 
is in 
WASHINGTON 
HAll 

· Admission: Free Time: 8:15pm 
unleashed a clamor over the legal 
and moral issues of capital punish­
ment reminiscent of the early 
1960's, when crowds gathered for 
all-night vigils at prison gates to 
prot~st executions. 
"People haven't been thinking about these issues for I 0 years." savs Deborah Levv. director of the Ar;,erican Civil Liberties Union's dea.th penalty project. 
"Capital punishment is under­stood as one of those questions that belongs in a debate class," she adds. "It hasn't been a reality and people haven't thought about what it means for society to take a life.." 
Lcvv believes that at least one execution will probably have to take place before people get aroused enough to turn the tide back. " I think that when we come to that actual execution," she says, "people are going to turn away from it just as they did 10 years ago. 
The sheer number of people on death row may itself have an impact. 
"We're not talking about one or two executions a year, like in the sixties," says Levy, "or even a couple of dozen a year, like in the fifties. We're talking about hund­reds a year, which we haven't had since the thirties." 
In fact. the number of death row prisoners in Georgia, Florida and Texas alone exceeds the total annual execution toll in the U.S. for any year since the 1920's. 

Kremlin shake-up unlikely 
Moscow (AP) -The likelihood of a Kremlin shakeup faded yesterday as a two-day meeting of the Communist party's Central Com­mittee ended with the nation's aging leaders all retaining their powerful Politburo posts. 
Before the meeting, rumors had circulated that Premier Alexei N. Kosygin, 72. might be nearing the end of his career. Kosygin has been reported to be ill and dropped from public view for three months until reappearing earlier this month. 
A Moscow radio communique at the end of the year's second committee session announced no changes in the Politburo, whose members. averaging close to 66 years in age, control party and state policy. 
Only second-level personnel changes were announced: the elec­tion of a new Central Committee secretary, raising the number to 
II. and the elevation of three candidate members to full mem­bership in the 280-member Central 
· Committee. The committee meeting is to be followed today by the 1976sessionof the Soviet parliament, known as the Supreme Soviet. which techni­cally could bring changes in Soviet government positions. 
But no major changes in the 
TRY OUR SPECIAL GERMAN DINNER 
(1) Bratwurst 
(2) 
Sauerkraut 

(3) 
Hot German Potatoe Salad 

(4) 
Pumpernickle 


Bread ALL FOR ONLY 

$.59 PITCHERS OF DARK GERMAN BEER $1.50 
FAT WALLY'S 
Ironically, the large number of prisoners on death row last spring, nearly 600, was in part'the result of a backlash to the Supreme Court's 1972 Furman decision. That ruling declared all death statutes then in practice unconstitutionally cruel and unusual because they allowed judges and juries unlimited, arbi­trarv and "freakish" discretion in 
determining  who  would  live  and  
who would die.  
Such  wide-open  discretion  had  
resulted  in  glaring  racial  and  

economic inequities in the usc of the death penalty. 
Between 1930 and 19b7, when Louis Jose Monge became the last person to be legally executed. 
3.859 persons were either hanged, shot. gassed or electrocuted in American prisons. 
Of them. 54 percent were blacks who consituted roughly I 3 percent of the population. 
Nine out of I0 of the 455 persons executed for rape during those years were blacks. 
And nearly all those on death row have been poor, and conse­quently poorly represented by counsel in most cases. 
In efforts to redress such imbal­ances following the Furman deci­sion, 35 states drafted new death statutes along two lines: some required mandaton· death for certain crimes . (presumably removing all discretion and arbi­trariness). while others. such as Georgia's. set up judicial proce­
leadership were expected to come following the lack of a party announcement yesterday. And no visible steps were expected to be taken toward solving succession problems as Soviet leaders grow older. 
"Nothing has changed." one Western diplomat commented at the conclusion of yesterday's closed session. "As for succession, they're no closer than they were before." 
Communist party general secre­tary Leonid I. Brezhnev. who will be 70 in December. made a 10,000-word speech to the Central Committee on Monday and appears to be in robust political health. 
The new Central Committee secretary announced in the com­munique is Yakov P. Ryabov, 48, first secretary of the Communist party organization in the Sverd­lovsk district. 
A lathe operator who received engineering training at the Urals Polytechnical Institute, Ryabov be­came a party official in 1958 and took over the Sverdlovsk party organizationt in 1971. 
His area of responsibility as a party secretary was not announced and is expected to become clear only over a period of time as his activities are publicized. 
.... 1

', .. -.. " .. "". 
dures requiring judges and juries to hear !ill aggravating and miti­gating circumstances in each case before passing sentence. 
Despite the rapid pace of death sentencing under the post-Furman statutes, no executions were possible until the Supreme Court stated what kind of statutes are constitutional. 
This summer's ruling finally ended the major uncertainties by declaring mandator:-· death sent­ences unconstitutionally cruel and unuwal punishment (thus sparing some JOO death row inmates). while upholding the constitution­alitY of statues requiring limited, directed discretion. 
Following the .July ruling. nearly all of the 18 states with unconstitu­tional death statutes began revising their laws in accordance with the Georgia statute. 
The court will decide later this term on the constitutionality of the death pcnalt:o.· for crimes other than first-degree murder, such as rape. airline hijacking and robbery. 
Observers predict that by this time next vcar at least 35 states will have constitutional death statutes. 
Kendall savs future constitu­tional challenges in individual cases will be three-fold: 
"One, there will still be ceo­nomic and racial discrimination in the administration of the death 

Acareer in law­
withoutlaw school. 
What can you do with only a bachelor's degree? 
Now there is a way to bridge the gap between an undergraduate education and a challenging, respon­sible career. The Lawyer's Assistant is able to do work traditionally done by lawyers. 
Three months of intensive training can give you the skills-the courses are taught by lawyers. You­choose one of the seven courses offered-choose the city in which you want to work. 
Since 1970, The Institute for Paralegal Training has placed more than 1600 graduates in law firms, banks, and corporations in over 75 cities. 
If you are a senior of high academic standing and are interested in a career as a Lawyer's Assistant. we'd lili.e to meet you. 
Contact your placement office for an interview with 
our representative. We will visit your campus on THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 4 
The Institute for Paralegal Training 
235 South 17th Street, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19103 (215) 732-6600 Operated by Para-Legal, Inc. 
·': 
... .'. ' ..~ 
"' 


PREPARE FOR: 
MCAT• OAT• LSAT• SAT 
GRE • GMAT • OCAT • CPAT • VAT 
Over 31 yean of experience ana succeu. Small classes. Vol­
uminous home study materials. Courses that are constantly
upaatea. Centers open days & weekends all year. Complete 
tape facilities tor review of class lessons ana lor u.. of 
supplementary materials. Moke-ups lor missed lessons 11 
our centers. 

ECFMG • FLEX 
NAT'L MEDICAL & DENTAL BOARDS 
Flexible Programs & Hours 
Our broad range ol programs provules an umbrptla or tP~tmQ know 
how !hal enables us lo oller the bf.osl preparation av,:ulahlt-lur!ht'' 
tmprov•ng the 1nd1v1dual course you vt> sPIPC!(>rt 
k~,/~.~~ss~, ~-~fld-H.
Bloomington, Ind. VJ 
Classes m Indianapolis also .,. 
N 

01her campuse'ii ... 
Most classes 8 weeks befme exam EDUCATIONAL CENTER 
Outs•de NY Stare Only 

~~~~rH 800·221·9840 TEST PREPARATION CP~~t~•onWitOIUSC•tll'l SPECIALISTS SINCE 1838 
penalty. Two, the statutes, although constitutional on their face, arc administered arbitrarily and capriciously in violation of the court's 1972 ruling. And finally,· convictions and death sentences obtained in trials where juries were selected by exclusion of any jury­man with conscientious or religious scruples against the death penalty arc void." 
Meanwhile, the newlv. formed National Coalition Against the Death Pcnalt~·, consisting of some three dozen religious and legal organizations. is mounting a massive public education and lobbying campaign. hitting on the issues of whether capital punish­ment is an effective deterrent. the possibility of irrevocable mistakes, and basic moral questions. 
Young Democrats to meet 
Anyone interested in serving as a Hall Coordinator for the Notre Dame-St. Mary's Young Demo­crats is asked to attend a brief meeting at 6:30 pm on the second floor LaFortune lobby. 
Upcoming activities will be dis­cussed along with a get-acquainted session with Mary Hess, Democrat­ic candidate for state representa­tive. 
AC-0035 
•· 

Kooz edged out Wednesday, October 27, 1976 the observer 1 1 
the Amertcan League champions. JUst two points back of Brett at Besides Morgan and Concep­.331, won the tightest race in the cion, The AP infield has Kansas balloting. He had-114 votes to 103
All-Star team announced 
City's George Brett, the American for Steve Garvey of the Los Angeles Concepcion, who batted .281, League batting champion, at third Dodgers. 
NEW YORK (AP) Second baseman after a 22-13 season and 2.51 had 161 votes to 101 for Larry Bowa base and Rod Carew of the Min­
Joe Morgan and pitchers Jim Catcher Thurman Munson....·hoearned run average. He had 205 
of Philadelphia, who finished nesota Twins at first base. 
Palmer and Randy Jones are the votes to 81 for rookie Mark Fidrych 
Brett, who batted .333 this batted .302 for the Yankees. ludsecond.
of Detroit. San Diego's Jones was Press All Star baseball team, over Pete Rose of Cincinnati. who team with 298..That made him the 
only repeaters on The Associated Foster. the major league's runs season, had 179 votes to win easily the most votes of any pia\ er o . the 
picked as the top left-hander. He 
batted in leader with 121, led all 
announced Tuesday. had a 22-14 record and 2. 74 ERA, 
outfielders with 215 votes. Griffey, had 76. Carew, who missed a fifth easv choice over Johnm Bcn,·h of Morgan, who batted .320 with 27 beating New York Met Jerry whose .336 batting average was ~traight batting title by finishing Cincinnati. who had ju~-~ 22 v. ·:· '· 
home runs and 111 runs batted in, Koosman, 172-121. 
second best in the National League,led four Cincinnati Reds on the Besides Morgan, the world finished third among the outfield-team. He received 277 votes to champion Reds placed shortstop 
ers with 125 votes. · easily outdistance Dave Cash of the Dave Concepcion and outfielders 
Mickey Rivers of the New York Philadelphia Phillies, who received George Foster and Ken Griffey on Yankees completed the outfield 
14. the squad selected by a nationwide alignment, receiving 134 votes. He Palmer, Baltimore's ace, was panel of sports writers and broad­batted .312 and stole 43 bases for 
named the right-handed pitcher casters. 
Hockey team optimistic 
IRISH NEWCOMERS can count on depth. "Last year[continued from page 12] 
these skaters showed considerable 
Smith plans for several freshman 

improvement skating against the a separated shoulder and is ex­to see action throughout the sea­
varsity each day and should chal­pected to miss the next two weeks son. Two are Tom Michalek and lenge for a position this year,'' says 
of practice. "Collier is an excellent John Paulos. Both Michalek and Smith. playmaker who can dig iQ the Paulos are noted for their aggres­corner... says Smith, and will no siveness and quick skating ability. "We're hoping that the close­doubt be quite an asset when he Paulos sat out his last season with a ness between Donny and Terry returns to the ice. broken shoulder but had been a Fairholm will contribute to an 
leading scorer at St. Paul Academy effective line this season,'' com­Michalek will be helped in the and played on a national bantam ments Smith. And, of course, 
corners by senior AI Karsnia, a league championship team with improvement will be essential to strong backchecker who will score a Weltzin. Michalek scored 100 the success of the squad. "Last few goals as well. Karsnia is "Mr. points his last year to lead his year Nugent and Hamilton doubled Consistency" for the Irish and will junior league in the Detroit area. their scoring and we're hoping for be an asset killing penalties also. These two. along with Meredith, continued polishing." Smith adds. Friedmann and walk-on Rosenthal 
Rounding out the ottens!Ve untt and Mike Morrisette, give Notre But the biggest "intangible as­will be Ray Johnson, Bob Baum­Dame what Smith and assistant set" this year will be the leadership gartner and Brian Burke. Burke is coach-recruiting director Ric Scha­of Brian Walsh and Jack Brown­a hard-nosed player who didn't see fer cali ·seventop-notch skaters who schidle. "There's an old adage any league action last year while will make a big contribution to the_ that if you have good leadership Johnson is a versatile skater who program. you should have a good season... can fill in at many different Add to this line-up Kevin Nagur­quips Smith. And this year the positions. ski and Tom Farrell and the Irish Irish are hopin that ada e is true. 
NOTICES 

RENT MY UPSTAIRS. $40 PERC'' :~· WILL DO TYPING: THEMES MANUSCRIPTS. CALL 287-5162 
~~~~::~~s~~~~~~~~~ ~.assz., zed Ads 
LOST AND FOUND 

___""T ___________ Attention Northern New Jersey. Don't miss the hayride this Thurs­Anyone have nders cominn out toSHey Seniors! 
To the blonde who picked up two :Jirl NYC area
day. Oct 28, 9-1 a.m. Tix on sale the Alabama :1ame from
hitchers Thurs. (lite before Oct.

in dinong halls. Beer, dogs, bonfore could could take someone else,
break in front of the Library bar. I 

Please contact Pete. Ph. 1056and frolicking for all 
left my navy coat with plaid linin:J in your car. Please return Call 6922 

Wanted 4 G.A. tickets tor Alabama on sale for half ott the regular price. Football name. Have unlimited New books on sale tor 23 per cent WANTED funds. Cali Bob 1461 ott. 
Pandora's Books·. has all used books 
Blind Ambition Need two Alabama tickets. Need student or G.A. Barna tickts. Final Days Call Martha at 1715 or 2116 Call 1487 All the President's Men 
Jimmy 'Addressers wan ted Jmmed iately! FOR SALE I' II Never Lie to You Work at home -no experience nec­Why Not the Best essary. excellent pay. Write Ameri· For Sale Like new He<erlin'l Turbo 
can Service, Suite 132, Minneapolis, jel ski boots. Size len al']d a halt OVEREA TERS Mn 55426 throunh el-even. Excellent ~1eneral Anonymous information. write P.O. rec. boot. $75 Call 233 8622 after 5 
Box 1265 Holy Cross Hall SMC BEER 
Free delivery and low prices. Chip Book Shop. Used Books. Students Now available at Pandora's Books, 288-7878 paradise. Open Wed., Sat., Sun., 
Blind Ambition by John Dean-on 9.7. Ralph Casperson Books. 1303 sale now URGENT!!!Need 2 Alabama GA's Buchannan Road. Niles, Michi:Jan. tonether. Maniac Barna !later Will 683 2888 Accurate, fast typin:J. Mrs. Donoho pay absolute top$$$. Call Dave 8528 
232 0746 Hours· 8 am to 8 pm Mexican Belts: finest leather belts 
Alabama Tix (~. 3, or 5'1 will pay $25 available only $10.00. CAll "Big Will teach you flute in your spare Charlie 287 4931 (No. ans. 1295) Money Murf" anytime at 234-8858 time. For info cal• Beth 8112 
Need 2 Barna tix for parents who 1 pr. B. I. 6 Formula 6 speakers, 2 NO Club sponsors tour to USC.ND have never been to an N D r]ame. months old askin'l $5v0 cdll Bob :1ame plus one week in sunny Mary 8125 1382 Hawaii. Game ticket included. 
Depart Nov. 27 and return Dec 6. Trick or Treat either way for 4 Kastle Ski's compound ralin'l 175 $520.00 from Chicano. Call 1577 for BAMA tickets. Call stan at 289 4740 em, never used or drilled 7160 details. · 
Need 1 to 3 student tickets tor PERSONALS ND-SMC Council tor the Retarded. Alabama or Miami. Frank 8705 Halloween dance toninht 7:30-10:00 Hades, 
p.m. in Lo:1an cafete-ria wear cos­Desperately need one ticket for I would fulfill my promise this tume and dancin' shoes. Alabama-call Bill 8764 winter but because of my visit last winter. my condition is such that I 
FOR RENT Need 2 G. A. Barna tixs desperately. need the attention of Ceres. Call 1785 Persephone 
Basketball tickets availabl-~ 
Students who placed ~· dcpo~ii '·n purchased beginning today. Only 
Season basketball tickets can be 

tickets last spring. but forg<'t to bleacher seats arc available and 
pick up their ducat la~t \\ L'l'k h~l\ e cost $24. 
not lost their dcpo~it. The dq>< ., 11 Seniors can buy tickets today 
can either be applied hm ard 1he from 9 a.m. to noon while juniors, 
purchase of a bleacher ~cat , -: l'e refunded am·timc ncxr \\(' ·k ·law and graduate students can 
However. tho-se studcnl'> hall J,,,t
obtain tickets from I p.m. to 4 p.m. 

their seating priori!\.
today. Married students and 

Ticket.•, will be i~~ucd fron ·. L
sophomores can buy tickets tomor­

ticket wmdow~ on the ~'-'L\llld '1, •r
row from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. and freshmen can purchase tickets on 

of the ACC and ~tudcnl'> 11il1 h· required to prc~cnt an ID.
Friday from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. 

. HEY I 
~~ SENIORS!!! 

--...: DON'T MISS ~·~ THE HAYRIDE 
BEER, ~ DOGS THIS THURSDAY AND BONFI~E OCT 28, 9 -1 am 
TIX ON SALE 
IN DINING HALLS 
D.H E
MARRIED STUDENTS AT NOTRE Happy Birtt1day J(> r·a,nwDAME! HERE'S AN OPPORTUN­

5 fll, .,
ITY TO EXCHANGE EXPERIEN­CES AND EXPLORE METHODS 

5 f>ne foxy SMC <.'tic~s are ,n
OF PARENTING. A PARENT­despera•e strairs tor " r>d.• to theCHILD RELATIONS WORKSHIP Navy Game. We W>ll p·ov<d(' Ou•STARTS 7:00P.M. NOVEMBER 1 dnver wilh a I<Ck.<•t to the oame a••dAT 222 E. CRIPE ST. TO INQUIRE 

hours ot fun af1d ('nfertalnn·ent t:n
OR REGISTER CALL 1717 

111e w,1y Cal: .J675 or 4612 Katery Tekewitha. Bon ann iver 
THE WORLD WELCOMES YOUsairell General G, Pal, Mike and SARAH ELIZABETH QUEHL!!!
the Octour Good Work, MarLie
A special thanks to each Notre Conr]rats to fOU and Steve fromDame St Mary's person who nave the Observer staff. Net'd 100 or somoney to me on the Friday before 

nodparents">
break. A 'lOOd friend didn't have to hitch hike to South Carolina and 

Steve,
quite a few prayers were answered. 

What are you wai. ·n'l tor">?
A special thanks to Fr. Fred, Luke 
...
Call Blondie

6:38 and Isaiah 58:10 The Beta Alpha Gamma (That's
Dear J.J., 

BAG to you uneducated heathens)Happy 20th'' (Not too orir]inal, Brothers will be in action anainbut sincere) ton•te after a week's hiatus.
Love, Brothers should assemble at 8 p.m.

Karen and Leigh at the BAG INN 

P. S. Bag sh <rts are in so brinn cash Who knows when the lights outside Game plans and the BAG ball-will be Farley will be replaced? The 
discussed
shadows know. Let's hope no one's lurking in them 

SENIOR ADVISORY COUNCIL MEETNG TODAY, .J 15 in 124 Tina, Hayes Hea1 1 Thanks tor making a very happy 
Hay.
Monday. 

Get your t,x for thL• sen.or hayr>dPBob Tt1 ur~ . Oct. 28 
Psst, Nancy, Carol. It you know what's good for you, you It you want :o 'IO to Chicago. we'll won't look at the ad above. be leavinn about 7·JO If you miss us 
your faithful nubble· U at my room you can calcll us on the 
way Ken, Poetry is nice but you can't delude yourself . 


Now that he hm 111s own towPI 0<• · have to.. wast1 nlCJfl' ,,ftt-_.n ?? 
-. ·--···--------:ooo;c:c;o;;c;ooo;;;c ------------.. -... -.. --------..............-..----~--... -.-... . -..... -.. -..... -... ... ---... ... -... --.--......-----. ---.. --... ---..... ---:--. -==;:; 
STEREO SCENE HAD A SALE WHILE YOU WERE AWAY. 
WE WANTED TO PASS ON SOME OF THE BAR GINS TO OUR UNIVERSITY FRIENDS WHO HAD A GJJEAT DEAL TO DO WITH OUR 5 YRS. OF SUCCESS 
-
Bring your I.D. card to get special consideration at our 5th Anniversary sale. AN ~"XTRA SPECIAL DEAL ON FRIDAY-The Sansui 9090 at an unreal price. BETWEEN 12pm and 5pm 
LISTEN TO WRBR FOR PRICE 
PHONE 287-1400 
THE STEREO SCENE ~ 
3302 MISHAWAKA AVE. SOUTH BEND, INDIANA 
STEREO COMPONENTS' FOR YOUR CAR 8: HOME. 
_e"fNOW 

ND icers optimistic for 76-77 season 

by Chip Scanlon Sports Writer 

There's a lot of optimism in the colder dome of the A.C.C. this fall a~ the 1976-77 Irish leers look to the 
grueling four month season afiellil. The Irish will play a minimum of 36 games during this year's campaign and if head coach Lefty Smith has his way there'II be plenty of post-season play that will hopefully end in Detroit at the NCAA Tournament. 
"We're very optimistic as we look to this year.·· says Smith as he enter'> his eighth season as mentor ol the Irish. "Virtually all of our top playing units are returning, our lir~t three lines, five or six regular ddenseman and our two junior .t:oalie'i." 
Nearl~· every skater is returning trom last year's 19-17-2 squad with 
.. 
graduations and pro ranks ac­,·ounting for the losses. The Irish lost Pat Novitzki on defense and Mark Olive, Jim Augustine, Timmy Bvcr'i and Alex Pirus from their p~odt~c·tive scoring attack. Pirus gav: up his final year of eligibility to play for the Minnesota North Stars of the NHL and will be the most costly loss to the squad. "We expect there will be some drastic changes lor the upcoming campaign as the forward lines will be realigned for more balanced scoring," remarks Smith. The Irish boasted a potent attack last season, scoring 171 goals in 38 games with I 07 of those coming off the sticks of the first two lines. 
IN THE NETS 

The Irish are strongest in the nets. the position that means the most if a team is to be successful. Returning for the Irish are Len Moher and John Peterson, a net­minding tandem that Smith con­tends are "the best goaltending twosome in the WCHA." 
Len Moher. a ·dimunitive figure at 5-9, 155. is a fierce competitor who has aptly guarded the nets for his first two years at Notre Dame. After getting off to a slow start due to a pre-season injury. the Buffalo Sabre draft pick came on to anchor the goaltending pair, winning nine of 14 in that second half while tying twice. 
The Irish certainly didn't suffer on nights that Moher wasn't in the nets because John Peterson, a 6-2, 183 pounder from Montreal, Cana­da is as capable as any in the WCHA. Peterson provided the team with nine victories in 20 outings with a 4. 7 goals-against average. 
Others battling for the job are senior Dave Caron and freshman Greg Rosenthal. Caron made steady improvement throughout last season while Rosenthal is a walk-on from Phillips-Andover Academy, the same prep school that Len Moher attended. 
Unlike the past two, Lefty Smith will not be alternating gaolies on Friday and Saturday nights. "We'll be going with the hot hand this season," Smith contends. "Len and John have matured enough physically and mentally to carry the duties on consecutive nights.'' 
ON THE DEFENSE 
The Irish defense has been dealt a serious blow in pre-season play as injuries have forced Don Jackson and Dan Byers out of action with a broken hand and separated shoul­der, respectively. Roger Bourque has been temporarily sidelined with a bruised thigh also, but is expected to be ready for action when the season Jpens against the Michigan State Spartans. 
Hockey Magazine Top Ten 
I. Michigan 
2. 
Wisconsin 

3. 
Notre Dame 

4. 
Brown 

5. 
Minnesota 

6. 
Dartmouth 

7. 
Bowling Green 

8. 
Cornell 

9. 
New Hampshire 

10. 
Boston College 


The loss of Jackson and Byers will make smart defensive play even more essential for the Irish and there is no defensiveman more knowledgable than Notre Dame's All-American Jack Brownschidle. 
Jack Brownschidle started the season playing superior hockey and continued to play that brand of hockey throughout he campaign. Brownschidle scored 12 goals and 24 assists during his junior year and will be trying to improve this impressive offensive output for a defenseman. 
Dick Howe will be paired with Brownschidle this season. Smith is balancing Howe's inexperience with the skills of an All-American to preserve a balance on the three sets of defensemen. Dick Howe is an aggressive checker who skated in 19 games last season and scored one goill. 
The next defensive pair for the Irish will be led by All-America candidate Paul Clarke who has shone in pre·-season practice. Clarke will be the other blueliner 

Chip Scanlone==============================================================================================:=====================================================:======================================================:e===================================:::;:;::::::::================================== 
Hockey: make or break year . 
:c===================================================:=======================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================:Chlp Shots. 
It's always rough when your squad is rated high in the preseason polls. Everyone always expects the best. The pressure upon the coach and the team is enormous. And then on top of all the pressure, injuries sometimes occur. Ara Parseghian saw it happen in 1974 when he had practically the entire National Championship squad returning. And now in 1976 it's happening to Lefty Smith's hockey team. 
There's no doubt about it, this is a make it or break it year for Notre Dame Hockey. With I 71ettermen returning, virtually the entire first three lines. five of six defensemen and two junior goalies. the Irish have to be a pre-season favorite in everybody's book. That is, unless injuries step into the picture. 
Over the last two weeks the Irish have lost junior center Geoff Collier, defensemen Dan Byers and Don Jackson, and have a very doubtful participant in Roger Bourque. These losses have caused Irish head coach Charles "Lefty" Smith to realign his lines and the experiment seems to be paying off. 
Brian Walsh, at home at his center iceman position, has been moved to defense and the fiery readhead from Wellesley, Mass. seems to have found a.home away from home. Walsh scored a hat trick from his blueline 
spot  and  added  two  assists  for  a  five  point night against  Western  
Michigan,  a  noteable performanc e  for  a  center  and  and  a  fantastic  
showing for a defenseman.  

Ted Weltzin, just one of the fine freshmen that Smith and assistant coach-recruiting coordinator Ric Schafer landed last year, will be filling in for Walsh on the first line between senior Clark Hamilton and freshman phenomena Greg Meredith. 
Weltzin scored three times in the exhibition game while Meredith tallied twice from his right wing spot. These two freshmen have shone from the first day when along with Tom Michalek they scored four goals on the second line unit of Donny Fairholm, Terry Fairholm and Kevin Nugent in a scrimmage. 
Michalek will also be seeing action in the upcoming weeks as he will be on the Irish power play along with Brownschidle and will give the Irish a scoring threat from the point .after scoring 15 goals last year. 
A surprise to the opponents on the Irish blueline will be Brian Walsh, normally a center iceman for the first line unit but forced into blueline action due to injuries on defense. Walsh will be captaining the squad this year along with Brownschidle. Last year Walsh led the Irish with 17 goals and 48 assists for 65 points and it looks like playing defense hasn't hampered "Dukie's" ability to score. In a pre-season scrimmage against Western Michigan, Walsh col­lected three goals and two assists, a great night for a· center and fantastic performance for a defen­seman. 
Another blueliner who Smith acclaims as "certainly one of our most dependable defenseman" is Roger Bourque. "And Roger should be even better this season," adds Smith. Bourque was noted for his physical play last season as he was ready to hit anything in an opponents jersey as it crossed the blueline. 
Also available for blueline duty will be freshman John Friedmann, a 6-1, 200-pounder from St. Paul, Minnesota. Friedmann will be paired with Tom DeWerd for the first part of the season but is expected "to be fighting for the starting spot," according to Smith. 
ON THE ATI'ACK 
The Irish were marked by for­wards who shot hard and skated harder and this season that charac­terization will be ever stronger. l-or the first time in three years the Walsh line of Brian Walsh, Clark Hamiliton and Alex Pirus will not be skating together as a unit. Alex Pirus decided to forego his final season of eligibility and has be­come a member of the Minnesota North Stars of the NHL. But a strong recruiting year by coaches Smith and Schafer has lessened this loss for the Irish. 
Centering the first line in his rookie season is one of Smith and Schafer's prize recruits, freshman Ted Weltzin. Weltzin scored a hat trick in his tirst outing at Western and is not unaccustomed to putting the puck in the net. "Ted was considered one of the finest play-makers in the Minnesota State tournament," quotes Smith and Weltzin certainly will be able to take advantage of the skills be­tween two fine wingers such as Clark Hamilton and Greg Mer­edith. 
To the left. of Weltzin will be Clark Hamilton, a strong winger skating on the third line for the mJured Geoff Collier. Collier suffered a separated shoulder in practice and continues to be a hard skater for the Irish. Collier injured his knee early his freshman year and then almost severed his finger in a freak domitory accident. After recovering from a knee injury suffered against Wisconsin in the final series of the season and showing pre-season brilliance, he finds himself on the injured list once again. · 
Dan Byers, Don Jackson and Roger Bourque were injured last week all within a span of 10 minutes. Byers is sidelined until Christmas while Jackson may be ready for the opener if a cast can be molded that will allow him enough mobility to stick handle. Roger Bourque has a severe 
charlie-horse but should be available for action Friday night. 
With numerous injuries such as these, many teams would become disenchanted and disheartened, but from all indications the Irish are taking these losses in stride and are still a team to be more than reckoned with. 
The Irish roared by Western Michigan, scoring 13 goals in three periods while allowing three to their opponent. By comparison, this weekend's opponent. the Michigan State Spartans, scored eight goals against Western Michigan with a healthy squad. Any time a team reaches a double-figured ~coring in hockey it is something special and special is a good adjective for the Irish this year. 
Last year when Michigan and Michigan State invaded the A.C.C. on consecutive weekends, Notre Dame hockey fever was beginning to reach it's potential. Every time an Irish skater touched the puck the crowd began to roar and the team was visably bouyed by this display of spirit. Hopefully this fever will carry over to this display of spirit. Hopefully this fever will carry over to this season and turn the A.C.C. into the snake pit that it could be for visiting teams. 
This year, don't just sit back and wait for something to happen on the ice. You, the crowd, can make it happen for the Irish leers this season. · And they're ready to make it happen for you. 
·-~',,~&:~t~1j 

Don Fairholm, "the Wizard" of the Irish leers, held opponents 
to 48 goals last year. . 
who will be looking "to turn the 
corner more on opposing defense­
man." according to Smith. Hamil­
ton, a pro draft pick. after his 
sophomore year, sports a blazing 
slap shot and a quick wrist shot that 
found the net on 22 occasions last 
season. 
A newcomer to the Irish and first 
line this year is freshmn Greg 
Meredith. Meredith is a speedy 
skater who attended Upper Can­
ada College, the same high school 
that Clark Hamilton attended. As a 
freshman in high school Meredith 
finished second in goals scored 
department behind his present 
linemate Clark Hamilton. 
The next line should be a big plus for the, Irish. Don Fairholm will be centering brother Terry on this line along with Kevin Nugent combining for a blend of speed, strength and aggressiveness. 
"Donny Fairholm was a very pleasant surpr~se for us last vear " admits Smith. The soph.omo~e proved to be a tenacious fore­checker as well as being slight of stick. "The Wizard," as his teammates call him, used his penalty killing ability to hold Irish opponents to 48 goals in the process. 
To the left of Donny will be Terry 

Fairholm, characterized by his 
jitterbugging style as he roams the 
left corner. According to Smith, 
"Terry was in top form early in the 
season. but had trouble recovering 
after missing 10 games due to 
injury." 
In the right corner will be the behemoth figure of Kevin Nugent. a 6-5. 230-pounder who played alongside Don Fairholm last sea­son. Kevin proved to be a balanced scorer last year while scoring 17 goals and 18 assists. 
This year's third line will be one of the most talented in years as Steve Schneider. Tom Michalek and AI Karsnia add to Notre Dame's new look. Schneider, brother of Olympic star Buzz, developed into a flying left winger in the latter part of his freshman season. "Schneider was the only freshman to crack the lineup last year and really turned into a heady hockey player," evaluates Smith. 
Geoff Collier, a center iceman from Montreal has been struck once again by the black cloud that has followed him in his three years with the Irish. Collier has suffered 
[continued on page 111 
Coach "Lefty" Smith 







