..& _a_ a z Q, a a 
as .a;; 
I 
I 

server 

Vol. XI, No. 1 
Saturday, August 28, 1976 





-pz -sa
= 4 
2 the observer ~ Saturday, August 28, 1976 
Freshmen 

Orientation Schedule 
SATURDAY,AUGUST28 
8 a.m. Freshmen report. to assigned halls 1 p.m. Campus tours ( Tours will depart from the Circle at the South Entrance to the campus.) 
5:30 p.m. Dinner. Students only (South Dining Hall) 
7:30 p.m. Official welcome for freshmen and their parents (Athletic and Convocation Center) (Parking will be available in the lot south of the Athletic and Convocation Center. However, walking will be more convenient than use of automobile from most loctions on campus.) 9 p.m. Freshmen meet with hall rectors and staff (Assigned Halls) 9 p.m. Parent Orientation (Athletic and Convocation Center) 
SUNDAY, AUGUST 29 
7-8:15 a.m. Breakfast. Students only (South Dining Hall) & a.m. General Guidance Sessions for Freshmen. Freshmen will be notified Qf their advisors and their General Guidance Session meeting places by cards that will be distributed in the residence halls on Saturday, Aug. 28. 11 a.m. Welcome Mass. Freshmen and Parents (Athletic and 
Convocation Center) 12-1 p.m. Picnic Lunch-a very informal lunch at which members of the administration and faculty will meet and the freshmen and their parents. (Athletic and Convocation Center.) 1-1:45 p.m. Notre Dame Presents-An introduction to the Notre Dame musical organiza~ions and varsity teams (Athletic and Convocation Center) 2 p.m. Presentation of Selective Service and ROTC information for freshmen and their parents. (Athletic and Convocation Center) 
2:30 p.m. Meeting of freshmen contemplating the Sophomore Foreign Study Program. Parents are invited. lnnsbruck, Mexico City, Tokyo, Taipei, Rome (Hayes-Healy Center) Angers (Room 204, O'Shaugnessy Hall) 3 p.m. Informal Mixer for Mexican-American students and their parents, faculty and administrators. (Memorial Library Lounge.) 3 p.m. Informal mixer for Black students and their parents, faculty and administrators. (LaFortune Student Center) 3:30-5 p.m. Informal mixers in the Halls. Students and parents invited. 2-4 p.m. Private meetings of freshmen with special problems and their advisors (Freshman Yar of Studies Office). If such a meeting is necessary, call 283-7421 for an appoinment. 5-6:30 p.m. Dinner. Students only. 7 p.m. Security Orientation. Freshman women. (Memorial Library Auditorium) 9 p.m. Dance. Sponsored by Student Government. (Concourse of Athletic and Convocation Center) 
MONDAY, AUGUST 30 
7-8:15 a.m. Breakfast. Students Only (North or South Dining Hall as assigned.) 
8:30 a.m. Registration according to alphabetical schedules (Stepan Center) Alphabeical schedules will be posted in the residence halls and throughout the campus. 10 a.m.-12 Examinations for course credit in biology, chemistry, physics, earth science, unified science, American history, European history, and economics. Studentseligibleto take these examinations will be notified (Room 127, Nieuwland Science Half) 5-6:30 p.m.Dinner-students Only (North and South Dining Hall as assigned.) 
TUESDAY,AUGUST n 
7-8:15 a.m. Breakfast. Students Only (North and South Dining Hall as assigned.) 
8 a.m. Classes start 
*The Observer 
Night Editor -Chris Smith Night Controller -Martha Ass't Night Editors -Debbie Fanning Dahrling, Marti Hogan Ad Layout -Mike Walrath, Layout -Bill Rivard, Kevin Debbie, Marti, Chris, Kevin, Walsh, Andy Waterhouse Bill 
Copy Readers-Don Reimer, Cathy Nolan Editorials -Pat Hanifan Features -Tim O'Reiley Sports -Fred Herbst Typists-Maureen Flynn, Terri Harlan, Don Roos, Morey Blinder 
The Observer is published Noonday through Friday <11d ~Y during the sui"TTTlel" session, except during the exam; <11d vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of the Univ. of Notre Dame <11d St. 11/iaty's College--2.!1_bsaiptions rrey be purd1ased for ~10 per semester) fro, The Observer, Box Q, Notre Dame, lndi<11a 46556. Sealnd Class postage paid, Notre Dame, IN 46556. 
., 


Thomas O'Neil, editor Overcoming Isolation -­Welcome to ND-SMC 
Isolation, loneliness, and homesickness are characteristic of the freshman pheno­menon. They are part of the darkest days of undergraduate life, and even one's entire life. Moments such as confronting an empty mailbox and eating in a crowded dining hall will not be easy to shake from the memory. 
But the freshman phenomenon is not exclusive to Notre Dame and St. Mary's. It is universal among freshmen on every campus. What is special about your addition to the ND-SMC community is what follows your acceptance of being away from home. Here is the one community where getting a second chance in life is a possibility for every one of us, and surmounting the temporary isolation and loneliness of freshman year can be easier than anywhere else. 
At home in the ND-SMC community, you will learn that "in loco parentis" means, in the heart beneath the Roman collar, that somebody really gives a damn. Whether an administrator acting as a substitute parent is offensive to you or not is incidental. The Good Fathers have good intentions, and the administrative attitutde seems here to stay. Your acceptance of their concern, however, does not always include your acceptance of their "tactics of concern:" namely, the social and educa­tional restrictions which govern your life here. Compliance to them is expectd, of course, but an occasional voice, lifted in protest, is at least listened to. 
The concern of your new-found fathers will also be complemented by the concern of your new -found friends. The friends you will make here will probably be friends of yours for life. It seems to be part of the bargain when agreeing to come here in the first place. Few other institutions can boast of the same. 

same. 

You have joined this community at an important time in its history. Less than ten years ago Notre Dame was an all-male "West-Point of the Midwest". Since that time we have seen the establishment of co-education with the graduation this past may of the first four-year classs of men and women. This is also the !35th year of our existence, and Fr. Hesburgh's 25th year as 
president. In short, education at Notre 
Dame has reached· the crossroads. 

Whether or not it will stagnate at this 
milestone or confront the junction of new 
directions, and progress further, is uncer­
tain. 
l 

Progress at St. Mary's has been held up since the "un-merger" of 1971. Last year St. Mary's appointed a new president, who in tum appointed a new staff. All of these people believe that this "education for the long haul'' as St. Mary's President John Duggan calls it, extends into the future beyond graduation. The wide-spead belief on both campuses today is that St. Mary's is on the threshold of a Golden Age. In short, they have put the crossroads behind them by choosing the most promising and the most difficult road. The dedicated idealism of the whole 
college promises  eventuci.I progress  and  
probable success.  
By the publication of this  issue,  The  

Observer extends its welcome to every freshman. Within these pages you will find What we believe to be the survival kit you will need to begin this ''Sojourn A way From life" as Duggan describes college in his interview with us. We have spiced up our pages with ocassional ·humour and valuable information 
On final note we wish you the best of luck. 
See page 10 

t I I I 
II I 
-·~· 


SALE HOURS: 
WEEKDAYS 10 'TIL 9 PM SATURDAY 10 'TIL 5:30 
SUNDAY 1 'TIL 6 PM 


ALL CARPET 

••• of all 1st quality LEES and CABIN CRAFTS carpeting 
* CHOOSE FROM 1700 PIECES!

*l plMDEMOMIUM OF 'lllUE! 
*AREVELRY OF SAVING! * PLEASE -NO DEALERS 

Colossal Lees! Titanic Cabin Crafts! The ware­house of ftlese giants were glutted witt. remnants, loaded witt. roll-ends, pieces accumulated from ftleir greatest season ever, in such profusion as to ftlrottle ftleir operations near-completely. They had to sell and sell quickly -and ftlat's when "CARPET-WAY" stepped in. Witt. a dramatic, hard cash wipe-out offer, we bought every single piece we could at bare rock-bottom-and now we pass 
the savings on to youl 
PERFECT FOR • • • 
BEDROOMS BATHROOMS KITCHENS BASEMENTS 
BUY NOW FOR ••• FLOORS WALLS STEPS DECKS 
• EVERY STYLE IMAGINABLE 
Shag, twist, plush, loop, tweed, cut/uncut, milti-level figured 
• BRING YOUR ROOM SIZES 
Snap up ftlese values on the spat 
• LEES -CABIN CRAFTS QUALITY 
Our Country's finest, most famous mills
-
DELIVERY AVAILABLE Moderate Charge INSTALLATION AVAILABLE 
IDEAL FOR ••• TRAILERS COnAGES CLOSETS 

Sorry No lay-a-way, No hold orders, No phone or mall orders, All subfect to prior sale, All pricing Is on cash and corry basis, AM dimensions •• mlnlmvnH. 
. FREE FRONT DOOR PARKING 
STATION WAGONS 
"'''"""'" FINANCING 
• AVAILABLE 
PERFECT FOR . . 
DORMITORIES 
APARTMENTS STUDY ROOM ANY ROOMS 
OTHER REMNANT GROUPS NOT LISTED 
• EVERY COLOR IMAGINABLE 
Golei  Ivory  c ....... ,  Jonquil  Orlen...  
"nk  Nuee•t  Aprkot  Sauterne  Plneapplo  
Aqua u .... ·Jade  5odelle lloque Azalea  ·  Avocado ""''..." lahamo  Abolntt.e Ambe'lllow lluebell  Gor...nle flomi.... Poolal...  
Coin  Cerise  l'aprlka  laybel  lottie G....,.  
Olin  Copper  .Seville  Hyacinth  Clo .. tly Ja...  
GrHn  Nougat  Jonquil  Heliotrope  froltetl Coc"'  
lelge  l'urple  Honey  Corte1Retl  ,,.teo llue  
Cannel  A1tec  Irona•  lwyGrHn  Greclon on...  
Iron'•  Autumn  Mogento  Manderin  MantetoSafMIII  
White  •-val  5oddle­ Ocean Green  Muffin hi..  
Azure  Marine  lltque  Turquol1e  White Grope  

AREA'S LARGEST CARPET SPECIALTY SToRE 

. D ST MARY'S) CARPET-WAY
N AND •
31 (HIWAY BETWEEN . • 
RECTIONS· TAKE u.s. s HIWAY AS N.D. 50760 • S. 31 NorthDl . CK'S ON SAME IDE OF 
South Bend, Indiana ... next door to Sandock's Furniture 

NoRTH TO SANDO ' 
1111 ~4L____!t~haz~e~o~b~s~2~e!r~v~e~r~aa------~s~a~tu~r~d~ay~~~-u~u~st~2~8~19~7e6~----~--~~---=----------------------------------------------------, 
SMC Dean Rice: Making the Tough Decisions 
EDITOR'S NOTE: Kathleen M. Rice is the newly appointed Dean of Student Affairs at St. Mary's College. She was formerly a resident of Boston, Mass. where she was a consultant to the College Entrance Exam­ination Board for the New England Regional Office, and taught at Northeast­em University. 
In my view, student affairs personnel must enter into a true co-practitioner role with the faculty as educators who must try to achieve our main institutional purpose: To prepare St. Mary's College students to cope successfully with the realities of the modern world. One true reality of life is that today, more than ever before, people are faced with increasing and ever­changing options relating to their personal, educational, and vocational lives. Consider the moral, spiritual, intellectual, and vocational dilemmas you~g people must face as they confront the transitional nature of the current job market, the changing conception of women's role in american society, and the national loss of faith in some of our greatest political and social institutions. 
Against this background, and arising from it, a major objective of the Depart­ment of Student Affairs (and one that I think is consonant and supportive of the goals of the institution as a whole) is to foster and enhance the ability of St. Mary's College women to make wise decisions: .when they choose courses, when theyIselect a vocation or a career, and when they ! choose among alternatives in the great and sometimes painful decisions relating to the 
· moral and personal areas of their lives. Our goal is to help St. Mary's women confront the challenges, the problems and the wonderful possibilities ofthe modern world as independent, thoughtful, and respon­sive women--and not as automatons. 
What will we do as a department to achieve this lofty objective? Every time a ' counselor, a nurse or a doctor, an advisor, or a campus minister touches a student's life, that contact must enhance the student's potential to be independent, adult, and in tune with and in control of her own personal decision-making power. In short, the principle that will guide our departmental behavior is to enhance, certainly not hinder, a sense of inner­directedness that will be available to St. Mary's College women as they face the many decisions they will be called upon to make. We expect that the student affairs personnel will grow from that kind of 
encounter as well. 
Though this may sound like great rhetoric, may I say that we intend to develop a framework for our department that will root the high-sounding phrases in the reality of practice. The framework we will utilize is simply and purely based on the principles of reflective and intelligent decision making. This year, St. Mary's students will hear a lot about the impor­tance of their own values in the decision­making process, how personal values sometimes conflict, and how important (and how difficult) it is to consider one's values in relation to group values and the values of other people. The goal? To help students clarify their values so that their value system will be more available for use in decision making--and ultimately for use in consciously directing life goals. St. 

Mary's women wilJ also hear a lot about the importance of collecting and evaluating information (including their own skilJs and interests) in the decision-making process. Finally, St. Mary's women wilJ learn a lot, I hope, about assessing their own risk-taking characteristics, and how risk-taking de­pends in large part on personal values. The concepts of values, information and risks will be discussed often, and in many different conteits, to show how an under­standing of such concepts can help sort out and then choose from sometimes an overwhelming number of alternatives. 
The framework of our 
department will be seen most clearly in the importance we will place on career development. A particular short-range goal of Student Affairs is to develop a more comprehensive and responsive Career Development Center (CDC) -a place where "career" is defined broadly to include religious vocations, motherhood, house­wifery and househusbandry, along with the traditional trades and professions. The CDC in collaboration with Counseling and other departments will help St. Mary's students to assess the wide range of opportunities and life styles available to women, to help them become aware of their power in life, and to use that power wisely and constructively. The decision-making framework will be seen clearly in our residence life program. The Resident Advisors under the guidance of and in collaboration with the Hall Directors, the Counseling Department, and 
the Dean's office, will focus on the principles of wise decision-making within the broader context of cor-m~~i~~ living 
and sharing and all the res~nstbthttes that go with such an opportut}ity. The intent here will be to clarify a~d articulate the grave responsibility of betng free. One of the great things about teaching and counseling for decision-making is that it can help students develop the grace and the skills to deal with freedom wisely -and thus to respect policies and procedures that­insure order and responsible behavior in group living situations. 
By way of summary, the intent of a decision-making framework for the Depart_­ment of Student Affairs at St. Mary's is to make sure·that every contact we have with students fosters their good will toward responsible behavior, and to enhance their ability to make well-informed, well­considered choices in both the big and little decision-making situations that they will encounter every day of their lives. 
Kathleen M. Rice Dean of Student Affairs 

The University of Notre Dame Department of Music ... Offering the Finest in a Variety of Musical Ensembles 
CHAMBER ENSEMBLES CHAPEL CHOIR CHORALE CONCERT BAND GLEE CLUB JAZZ BAND MARCHING BAND ORCHESTRA UNIVERSITY CHORUS VARSITY BAND 
Audition times for all .choral ensembles are as follows: 
Freshmen: Sat., 1 -3, 4 -5 pm Sun. 7-9 pm 
Others: Mon. 10-12 am, 1 -3, 6:30-8 pm Tues. 10 -12 am, 1 -3, 6:30 -8 pm Wed. 12-2 pm 
Men auditioning for Glee Club must also sign for interview: Mon., Tue., and Wed. 8:30-11 pm SIGN FOR AN AUDITION TIME IN CROWLEY HALL STUDENTS INTERESTED IN BAND SHOULD SEEK INFORMATION IN WASHINGTON HALL 

'1lllif 1, 
----~·~-----.-...<i""·~--,'"1-,--....,.----------------------........-----:,..,. Saturday, Au~us~ ~8_,_1976 the observer 9 
--------------~=-~~~~~----~ 
The first days; an initiation 
by Glen Corso 
wide as he looked at the tree-lined walks and broad gree lawns. Editor's note: Corso was editor-In-chief of The guard at the gate smiled, and waved the Observer from 1970 through 1972. In 
His father leaned out and asked the guardthis column, reprinted from a previous 
where Zahm Hall was. The guard'sIssue of the Oserver, Glen recounts the instructions were none too clear, but astrauma and initlaion of freshman year with they rode down the street large, hand
warmth and humor. painted signs pointed out where the
The Golden Dome swung into view as various halls were.
the car rolled down tree-lined Notre Dame Avenue. The young man's eyes opened the young man and his parents through. 

Typical freshman, circa 1968, Mr Corso's freshman year. 

Founded November .1. 1%6 
Vol. XI, No.1 Saturday, August 28, 1976 
Members of the Blue Circle met the boy 

and his parents andpointedout Zahm. They 
walked up to the desk where a busy self­
important young man was standing. 
"Hi," he said flashing a pepsodent 

smile, "You're a freshman right?" 
The boy nodded and was told to sign a form, and to pick up his room key, and pay five dollars. 
"Why do I have to pay five dollars," he asked. "It's a hall tax, it's going to payfor a new study lounge." The boy's parents agreed that that was certainly a worthy cause, so the boy paid. 
On the way downstairs to pick up the luggage the boy was grumbling about the five dollars. His father looked at him and told him to shut up. 
The corrider the boy walked down was dark and rather gloomy. His eyes flicked back and forth glancing at the room numbers. At last he spotted his own and stopped in front of the slightly open door. As he swung it open the bright sunlight streaming through the windows almost blinded him. 
There were three people in the room, two men and a woman. The younger man came forward and his hand extended and smilingly introduced himself and his parents. The boy promptly forgot the young man's first name and forgot to look the boy's father in the eye when he shook his hand. 
The boy's parents came in and introduc­tions were made. Everyone stood around in an awkward circle with sickly grins on their faces. Finally the boy's father made some comment about unloading the rest of the stuff out of the car, and they all shuffled out. 
The rest of the unloading was accom­plished quickly. The only awkward spot came when the. boy's parents ex;citedly began unpacking his" luggage and discov­ered his lighter, fluid and ashtrays. His mother merely frowned, as she put them in one of his drawers. 
The boy's parents finally took off, to move into their motel room and the boy was left alone for a short while. He lit a cigarette, sat back and looked around the room. 
The walls were light green and the windows were trimmed with this chocolate brown color. It was a lousy combination, but then he hadn't expected a color coordinated room. The ceiling was about eight feet high and was painted a dull white. 
The lockers were light brown, and all three were scarred and scratched. The doors on his squeaked when he opened them. There were two bunks and a single bed. The single had been taken by the young man, but at least he had goten the lower bunk. He felt a brief pang of pity for the third fellow, who hadn't yet arrived. 
He would get the top bunk and the lousiest desk. Oh well, that's the breaks. he boy thought. 
The room was fairlylarge, being a triple. 
Thank God, I didn't get stuck in one of those doubles that look like a closet, he thought. I don't know how the hell those guys are going to live in that damn thing for a whole year. He remembered walking down the corrider with his father. and the sick feeling in his stoma.'h when he saw the tiny doubles. His father gave him reassuring comments about how he only had to sleep in the room. not live in it all day. 
The boy walked out of the room. dowr. the hall and out the door. Some boys wer,· playing football on the lawn. He watrhc ,! them for a while tossing the ball arounu and thought back to his high school da1 ~ when he was a second string defensi1 e tackle. He smiled as he thought of thl' block he had thrown that led to the seventh touchdown ofthe day. He tasted bile in hi~ mouth as he thought of the first string players and their condescending attitudes. He had hated them. and still did. 
He was lying quietly in bed. listening to his two roommates snore. It was nearly three and he still wasn't able to get to sleep because there was a bunch of drunks running around the hall screaming obscen­ities. Lousy cretins, it's probably their first night away from home, he thought. 
The first week passes pleasantly enough. Registration was a pain; waiting in endless 
lines  to  sign  your  name  or  have  your  
picture taken.  Mostly crap.  
The  courses  didn't  seem  too  bad.  

Calculus was going to be a disaster, he knew it from the start. The teacher was the sort of guy who would slit his grand­mother's throat if it was in the academic regulations. The rest looked fairly interest­ing though. 
There was a party tonight at some place called the Mishawaka Conservation Club. He and his roommate were planning to go. He hoped it would be a good time, but the place would probably be a dump. 
They took two cups of beer each and chugged them. They both went back for two more. 
Three, or four hours later both stumbled onto the bus. They sang songs all the way home. His rommate screamed things out the window. 
They got out of the bus at the circle and began to stumble back to the room. His roommate tripped fell and sprawled on the sidewalk with his mouth open. The boy stood there laughing hysterically. He glanced up and saw the Dome and began to walk forward. The wire that ringed the grass caught him at the knees. Hetripped. and the pole jammed him in the stomach. He vomited. When he finished he turned and looked at the Dome. He had arril·ed. 

PROJECT/one System Super-Priced! 



$299 
Value-packed back-to-school system! High performance 10" 2-wav speak­er.;, unmatched PROJECT-one reli­ability, and BSR changer package. 
817 W. McKinley Hwy. College Square Center, Mishawaka 
across from Town & Country Phone 256-1 514 
Mon. thru Fr. 10-9; Sat., 10-6 
We've Got The Greatest Names In Audio!! 
AUDIO TECHNICA AR E V INTERFACE EPI EPICURE UTAH CERW IN-VEGA BIC BIC VENTURE DOKORDER SUPERSCOPE TEAC MUSIC TAPE MAXELL TDK 
MARANTZ SONY PHASE LINEAR SOUNDCRAFTSMAN PIONEER SANSUI PROJECI'Ytne BIC TURNTABLES DUAL BSR EMPIRE STANTON SHURE ALTEC THORENS 

.,_......, 


' 


AR ROTC. 
-· For details, contact: LTC Musselman 283-6264 or visit the Army ROTC office, Building 5. 
.. . . ... . . . .. .. .. 
·---'........ . ·. ~ 


•' ­


-----------------~-------------------------------------------------------.-----~ 
HELEN REDDY .!. Music, Music 
CAPITOLATLANTIC 

STEREOLPS 
SERIES 6.98 


$3.99 
S-TRACK TAPES SERIES 7.98 


$5.99 
CAPITOL
PICTURED ITEMS ON SALE. 

NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
Prices good through Aug. 28 -Aug. 31. 


In Loco Parentis--Notre Dame Our Parent? 
by Pat Hanifin Editorial Editor 
Will the University be a "father" to you during your stay here? Should the administration take a paternalistic attitude toward you and stand "In loco parentis"--in your parent's place? 
In loco parentis is a phrase you wilt hear often during your stay at Notre Dame and will often hear spoken disdainfully. It is a key phrase in the basic on-going dispute over how the University should be run and who should run it. 
The Theory The theory of In loco parentis has been presented most clearly, most gracefully, in a brief article by Fr. JamesT. Burtchaell, University provost, which appeared in the August 1972 issue of Notre Dame Magazine. He re-interprets this originally 
legal doctrine to mean a deep personal concern for the student's lives: "A parent, then, at whatever age or maturity, no matter what his degree of control, authority or involvement, retains a total con­cern for every feature of his child's life... And why should a university educator not stand in the same situation of total concern: In loco parentis? 
Burtchaell stresses expressing concern through persuasion rather than through coercion: "Like parents, academics care about more in their students than they can control and must often forego command in favor of persuation and debate." But then comes an ambiguous and unelaborated pro­viso: "Often, but not always." The ambiguity flows from his view of student status. The student is a "boy/man" and Burtchaell refuses to accept his legal adulthood as fully valid educationally. 
Thus the administration is some­times right to regulate even private matters. Or, as St. Dominic put it, "where blessings fail, blows may avail." Such a "stringently effec­tive teacher,'' the provost thinks, will be appreciated "in retro­spect.'' 
The Practice 
It is precisely this ambiguity about coercion and persuasion that raises problems in the practice of 1n loco parentis. You will find that the professors and administrators here are generally and genuinely willing to help you with problems outside the classroom. That is indeed what IM.kes Notre Dame so uncommon a place: what keeps it from being a machme for the mass production of specialists. 
However, In loco parentis is also used to justify rules regulating the students' private lives, rules backed by coercive penalties. Their efforts are sometimes miti­gated by evasion, by lax enforce­ment or by counselling rather than punitive treatment of offenders. But it is impossible to get accurate information on the overall enforce­ment of the rules. Since the administration keeps cases confi­dential and many cases are handled quietly within the halls, the only information often comes from dub­ious rumors and penalized stu­dents. 
Many people are convinced, rightly or wrongly, that the rules are enforced more punitively than parentally. That conviction makes close relations all the more diffi­cult. 
In loco parentis is also used to justify putting nearly all the real governing power of the University in the hands of the administration. Students do have minority repre­sentation on some of the councils but the final authority rests with the entirely non-student Board of Trustees and the top administra­tors. When it comes to the University governance, In loco parentis means "Father knows 
best." everyone. Then, say students, 
The Objections the temptation is to resort to 
It is not the concern that students "blows" where "blessings" seem object to, but, rather, the tactics of to have failed. concern though no completely. Mo~e basically, some opponents mature (who is?), students believe question the analogy between the themselves adult enough to make Uni~ersity and the family. No their own personal decisions. famtly has nearly ten thousand Administrative advice and counsel members, and no family which did are welcome, but orders and com-could still operate as a family. But mands about private matters be-many localities have fewer citizens tween consenting "adults" are not. than Notre Dame has students, Nor are rules made by a few men faculty and administrators. behind closed doors. Perhaps a more apt analogy 
By the time students reach the would be the relations between a University most think they have government and its citizens. Even reached, to use Burtchaell's own the administration edges toward words, "the season for the children this in talking about an agreement to gather their own privacy and the student mlj.de on entering to autonomy about themselves...the obey all the rules--a sort of social end of command and control." contract. Or perhaps no analogy is 
In practice, many students claim accurate and the University should In loco parentis too often stresses be seen as a unique institution with the commands and too seldom the its own internal relations and its counsels. This, they say, is own proper form of governance.· nowhere more true than in the In any case, the debate over In relations between the Administra-loco parentis o.ver the running of tion as an organization and the Notre Dame, will be loud and Students as a body. The close heated, as arguments in families personal relations at the heart of and localities and colleges often the theory snap under the weight of are. numbers; the "family" can divide Then it will be well for admini­into two hostile camps. strators to remember that students 
The top administrators do make would not stay to argue if they did every effort to keep in touch with not appreciate the concern that the students, but they cannot know makes Notre Dame unique. And it 
lf!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~~=-:;jfiE~~!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~I will be weII for students to rem em­
ber the deep sincerity of that 

I 
'· 
concern Fr. Burtchaell spoke of: 

"We are terribly vulnerable and 
we do our work for love and not for gain--none quite so vulnerable, I imagine, as those who lay aside natural parenthood to give their whole soul and strength to this other begetting, and have such ·single-minded desire that these, their sons and daughters, sue-. 
ceed." 


Sooner or later, you're going to use a South Bend bank 
Why notFirstBank... Sooner? 
A local checking account (or savings But we're also in a pretty good position account, or travel arrangements, or loan) to know that eventually you're going to profit may not be one of your top priorities from using one or more of our 70 diverse when you're more concerned with matters banking services. You've got a long way to go. academic or social. We understand that. We'd like to help you get there. 
• Thirteen convenient locations. 
• Travel Bureau on Notre Dame Campus (Badin Hall, next to Barber Shop-Call 284-3226) 
• 24-Hour Time & Temperature service: Call 234-7121 
FirstBank 
with ou ... all the way 
This is just a sample of t!'!e bad weather freshmen have in store for them . 
. l 
Saturday, August 28, 1976 the observer 13 
Busy days ahead for SMC freshmen 
by Marti Hogan St. Mary's Editor 
President John M. Duggan and Dr. Kathleen Rice will kick-off St. Mary's 1976 orientation activities today with a freshmen welcome at 
2:45 p.m. in O'Laughlin Audito­rium. 
Freshmen parents will then re­ceive · an academic briefing pre­sented by Dean of Freshmen Rosemary Doherty at 3:15 p.m. in 0' Laughlin. Parents of transfer students may also receive this briefing in Moreau Hall from Gail Mandell, assistant to the vice-pre­sident. 
.... ,.,._ .-. 
At 7:30 p.m. the SMC drama department will feature "Back­stage Review" in O'Laughlin Audi­torium. "It consists of a variety of comedy, drama and music that will be really entertaining," said Ther­ese Chin, orientation co-chairper­son, "and I would recommend that the freshman see it." 
Hall parties will be held at 10:30 
p.m. for the freshmen in their ·respective halls. 
An Academic Open House will begin orientation activities Sunday from 9-11 a.m. During this time, off-campus programs will be dis­cussed in Carroll Hall. 
Freshmen testing will take place at 2 p.m. in the dining hall followed 
Discover the ND-SMC shuttle bus. 
Pandora's Books 
937 South Bend Ave. 233-2342 
We have new & used paperbacks for all of your classes Come in for pipes, papers, art prints, magazines, daily & Sunday New York Times. 
CAMPUS 

by a registration briefing. Chin stressed the importance of these events saying, "If the freshmen don't go, they'll be lost." Student Affairs . briefings will also take place at this time. 
An all-campus picnic will be outside the dining hall at 5 p.m. and SMC freshmen are invited to a Notre Dame dance at 9 p.m. 
Students register Monday from 8 
a.m. to 4 p.m. then may relax at "Monday Night at the Movies," which will feature "Bells of St. Mary's and "Knute Rockne, All­American" at 6 p.m. in O'Laugh­lin. Regina hall will sponsor a dance following the movies. 
Tuesday night will be the tradi-
LOUIE'S ONE DAY SPECIAL 
$1.00 OFF BEST HOMEMADE PIZZA IN TOWN 
with this ad 
V2 lb. 
Mclouieburger 
SERVING PIZZA & 
SANOW ICH ES TILL 
2:30AM Just down N.D. Ave. 
tiona! Big-Little sister Madonna Night beginning with a buffet dinner at 5:30p.m. Big sisters will have the tickets for this dinner. A liturgy and candlelight procession will follow the buffet. 
St.  Mary's  will  again  sponsor  
dessert  with  the  Notre  Dame  
women  at  7  p.m.  in  Stapleton  
Lounge.  

Thursday night will be a picnic with ND students at 5:45 p.m. in front of the SMC dining hall. The picnic will be followed by a Student Government carnival in the Le­Mans courtyard and a concert featuring Tom Hyatt, a contemp­orary folk player from Chicago., 
Freshmen are encouraged to attend Student Government night, 

'Sunday, Sept. 5, at 7 p.m. in Little . Theatre. The presentation is designed to give the freshman an idea of the organizations which are 
open to them at St. Mary's. 

Along the same lines will be 
SMC Sports Night in the Regin·a 
Lounge Monday at 7 p.m.. 
Students will be informed of the 
various sports activities at SMC 
and given an opportunity to sign 
up, according to Chin. 

Many facilities will be open during orientation weekend inclu­ding the bookstore, the busines~ office, the financial aid office and the admissions office. These facilities are open Sat. Augu~t 28. 10 a.m. to 4 p.m., and Sun.. August 29. 9 r•. m. to 4 p.m. 
THE GREEN THUMB 
PLANT SHOP 

100 CENTER MISHAWAKA 
WELCOME 

N.D. -S.M.. C. STUDENTS 
1 0% DISCOUNT ON ALL STOCK 
with special guest 
BOB SEGER 
and the Silver Bullet Band 

Wednesday, September 1 7:30 
NOTRE DAME A.C.C. 


't-1<1"'""-=." 
t _ _...F>­
14 the observer Saturday, August 28, 1976 
---------------··----­
~---, ·----~------.,-, 
Close to Campus NOTRE DAME AVENUE APARTMENTS 2 bedrooms -Completely Furnished $260.00 per Month Up to 4 Students 233-6363 or 234-6647 
STUDENTS GO HOME! 
FOR CHRISTMAS TO SEE THE FOLKS. 

Phone: 272-5520. 
•• •• •••• •CLIP AND SAVE• • • • • • • • 
Freshmen rank high in academia 
by Martha Fanning someone who is academically 
Senior Staff Reporter strong and someone who is interes­
ted in getting involved in a school 

Is Notre Dame everything you that has been founded on a expected it to be? Are you begin­Christian ethic," observed Sara­ning to wonder why you were cino. accepted? Following the extra-curriculars is 
This year's freshmen class is one the personal statement by the ofthe most qualified to enter Notre student. In this section, the student Dame according to Daniel Sara­is free to comment on any topic. cino, associate director of admis­Saracino mentioned that many sions. The students were chosen students will use this section to from over 6400 applicants, and include something which he feels increase of 120 over the previous may be overlooked due to the year. nature of the application. Examples 
"So you know that you are going of topics are ''why a student to be picking from a larger group to received a certain grade junior fill a freshman class of 1625," year" or why his involvement in commented Saracino. "We found activities was limited. that not only was the applicant pool ''A student is not generally larger, but it seemed as though we going to see an opportunity ot list had a greater percentage which working after school in the extra­met the normal requirements." curricular section. These are things 

The selection process is regarded that come up and will be looked at," by Saracino as fail-safe. Each he emphasized. applicant's file is reviewed by at The last item is the letter of least three members of the admis­recommendation from the person sions committee. Iftheir decision is the student feels knows him best. not unanimous, the file goes before Also any letter from an individual's the entire committee for a final high school counselor will be verdict. reviewed. The associate director 

"Our evaluation system is ext­said that the admissions offices DANIEL SARACINO remly unsophisticated and time­does not encourage ten letters of consuming," remarked Saracino. recommendation from various but are going to Notre Dame. This "People rejected by Notre Dame sources, such as pastors, alumni or caused an increase,'' Saracino cannotstatethat they were rejected neighbors. observed. The male applicants by a computer." Saracino commented, "If I see a have also risen in the past years. 
The most important factor of the file that is a half-inch thick or more Of the 6400 applicants for this application is the high school due to letters of recommendation, I year's freshmen class, 4700 were transcript. Under this category the know the student is probably trying men competing for the proposed 
committee views the school the to offset some deficiency in the 1250 spots. The remaining 1700 student attended, grades received, application." female applicants vied for 375 the student's curriculum and it's The student's declared intent places. In 1971 the university set a level of difficulty and his class does not play a role in the goal of at least 1500 women rank. Saracino pointed out that the acceptance decision. The Fresh­undergraduates by the 76-77 class . high school transcript can indicate men Year of Studies has reported This year's female freshman class a great deal about the ability of a that 60 per cent of last year's brought the total above this mark . prospective freshman. sophomores found themselves in Remarking on next year's fresh­
The second element looked at art programs different than those they men class Saracino said, "We the SAT scores. They are approxi-originally declared. Saracino be­could easily admit more women, mately half as important as the lieves this figure demonstrates the another 150 or so, and accept 150 high school record. The current need of a freshman year. fewer men. We don't' want to freshman class received scores He stated, "On the application increase the student body size, but between 1180-1200. I wish we could state it more clearly we do believe that there are
'1:J ''About half of the students above the area where they have to qualified women being preselected 
~ 
......_ reiected say it was because of their check their desired intent, so that it out because of sex," he concluded. ~ SAT's. They don't go further and doesn't sound like a final commit­Another factor contributing to
c 
Z think about what their transcripts ment. Such as 'Could you please the increase in applicants is the use
z SERVICE 
C were like," explained Saracino."lf tell us today what you are thinking of alumni committees across. the 
c:t for example, a student scored of going into, fully aware that it country. The 190 committees na­C/) high on these tests and was ranked could change ten times between tionwide aid in college nights,
0.. )> just in the top third of his class, now and the time you enroll as a contacting students and answering freshman."
:J ~ONSOLIDATED <that student was not rejected for questions of students planning to ~ his SAT scores, but because his The number of studnets applying enroll. The alumni can also answer 
C,) 1'!1 overall record was not competitive to Notre Dame has been increasing questions about the student life at : BUSINESS • enough," he concluded. . since 1969 when 4400 students Notre Dame through personal ex­• • These two points dete ,nine applied. Saracino cited several perience. Information from the 
• 
~ACHINES INC. • whether or not the individual is reasons for the upward trend. admissions office is sent out each 

• 
~~~ • capable of doing the work that will He views the decision by the year about the college's programs, university to go co-educational as along with application cards and


: 2915 MISHAWAKA AVE. SOUTH BEND : ~~m~f;~!edco~i2!~· a~he~xt~~~ 
one factor. "We are now accepting other relevant material. e 288-8720 e curricular activities, to determine women who had no desire to go to A third reason Saracino proposes 
• I what the applicant has to offer St. Mary's College or perhaps is the increase of the admissions• • • • • • • • CLIP AND SAVE • • • • • • • • Notre Dame. "We are looking for would consider St. Mary's College, staff by 50 per cent since 1969. The 
of students in the middle range, the top 10 per cent of the class, and
Welcomes everyone back and invites you to check out our new dance 
with 1180 SAT's. Although the admissions office accepted fewer
floor and lights. Also this year the Library announces their new exotic drinks: 
students than the previous year, the class was over-confirmed. Based on confirmation rate of 60
-it s"-''t\G • _.w. ~'"" • ~ ~ it * 
per cent the admissions office
,.L\~f(; Got..o T' '!( sQ * .b..ot>-~ ~..q . 
accepted 2800 students last year.
G~r--£N C * UJ~ ov-• 1; 4tslt 
"The 60 per cent confirmation rate
c,\~ I) * -.40/L..£.4 ~~ ~~{ ~t>-c ~ 1c .....~\f(:, it ~~ ...... 
is one of highest in the country,''
~ 144f~. -it C 0~~ (/"\ ..k -,... ~ 0""' Jlllllf 
noted Saracino. "Notre Dame is 
-.,.... •r '~'It ... c'i'-c ~ * ·-r tn 1! * * 
consistent with any selective school, in fact it's better than
~ ~~ .... ~~ • «,""~ *CJ.i£~~y .. DEVIL'S TAIL Gf(;~ 
most," he added.

-<.~' ... '~'~t~~ * c,~~v ._ 8t..osso41 * \f'l ~"-"-~j).~ -it "So we are admitting students 
who are not only stronger academ­
~~\, ~ * n_\c,~ .. GRASS HOPPER ~ ~~f(;~ ically than in previous years, but
-.,.... ... \'"-.... • " * ~~ who are also more so in extra-curri­
* culars," observed Saracino. "So it 
• 
: 

• 
: 


• 
• •• FAST • 
-
> w c:t TYPEWRITER 0 1 

is our belief that we have the finest 
TONIGHT GALA GIVEAWAY RECORD ALBUMS BRASS DRINKING MUGS & MORE group of young men and women 
enrolled in the freshman class this 
year," he concluded. 

, 
l ~ 

15
Saturday, August 28, 1976 the observer 
~~~ Ololoutal 
'ancakt lfnu.st ~ 
WELCOME BACK 
N.D. -S.M.C. STUDENTS , . 
WE NEVER COMPROMISE WITH QUALITY I 
U.S. 31 (Dixieway North in Roseland Across from Holiday Inn 
.~~----------------------------------­
l~&t& 
Charlie offers a total package of pharmacy services 

Personal medication records are maintained bv tht> MAR-MAIN Pharmacy to provide the best pre~crip­tion care. These records g•ve a history uf )our mt•di­cations a5 well as information concerning your aller­gies and helps us make accurate recommendations o~bout your mediutions ,md avoids undesirable drug combinations. Our record service is one of many services that !)'lake C up our total package of pharmacy services. I!J 
MAR-MAIN PHARMACY il 
CHARLES SPIHER, PHARMACIST ~ !

~g;J.! 426 N. Michig_an ~~\(:'" ~~~ ~South Bend, ln(liana.~. ~~~ ~·&~J<r-234-3184 7'·~~· 
Another integral part of the freshman experience: The panty raid. 
U,JJJ '' (,• '' 
Name 
Address Phone 
-~---------­
City State Zip 
Please sent subscriptions at (circle price) $9.00 ;$7.00 Totals 
~~~~~~----­
-
Indicate date choice for each play: 1st Fri. 1st Sat. Thurs. 2nd Fri. 2n_d_S_a_t_­
Mail check for a~unt due and st~mped addressed­envelope for return of tickets to: ND liMC Theatre, 
I 

N_otre _Dame, Indiana 46556. Seat preference will be '--"DEAR MOM: Th.is place is.really.tough.. l spent.e\lery night at the library., it seems~:__!· 
.. ~!~en .If order is received by September 15, 1976. 






Founded November 3. 1()66 
1ht.· Obst.·n~r '' puhh..,ht.:d h! ~tudt.•nh of tht. Lnl\c..'r'ity of N~Jtre Dame and St. Mary'!o! College. II dtlt'\ 11111 llL'l'C~..,arily rl'ikct the..· po\ic..·ic~ Dl either IO~tillltion. The new!, is reported a~ accurate\,\-' .tnd tlhjedt\t.'l~ a.., po..,~ibk. Editorial~ reprc!-.cnt the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Baord. ( 1\flllllentanc..·, an· the \"iL'\1;~ of indi\ iduall·ditor'>. Opinion!\, cartoon!-. and regular c..·olumm. express tht· \iL'V.' 11f thL·ir author... Column ~:apace b available tn all member~ of the communitv, and letter~ .lrl· c..'Ol'\IUra~l'd to pronh11L' the free..· cxpre~~ion 11f varying opinion~ on campu~. . 

Saturday, August 28, 1976 
ND-SMC 
Survival Kit 
It's too late to turn back. You've paid your money and you have to take your chances. You will of course adapt to Notre Dame eventually, no matter how lost you feel now; but to make the adjustment easier we provide the following list of essentials for surviving freshman year: 
A map showing the way around every­thing, including the parietals rule. 
A teflon stomach to digest dining hall food; its non-stick surface will keep things moving. Also, a portable stomach pump to use when the teflon corrodes. 
Clothes three sizes too large and socks with iron toes and heels so you will still have something to wear when your laundry comes back. 
Water-proof bedsheets and shaving­cream-proof underwear--needed to survive donn warfare. 
Cockroach spray: If you live in St. Ed's, don't bother: the roaches are immune. Besides, they are your hall mascots. 
Inflatable member of the opposite sex to take on dates: You won't get the real thing till next year. 
Black negligee (for the men): Keep this in storage until after the first panty raid. Then display as a ''catch.'' 
A watch at least twenty minutes slow: to be on time for the St. Mary's-Notre Dame shuttle (wherever it may be). 
Beads (not rosary): to be properly 
I 
relevant at the 12:15 Sacred Heart Mass. 
To go all out, add a beard (dye it silver). 
Phoney I.D. card: essential until Indiana leaves the Stone Age and lowers the drinking age to 18. 
No-Doz: One case should last for the semester; required for all-nighters and for finals week. Do not mix with: 
Beer: required at all other times. 
Ability to walk on water: useful during autumn and spring monsoons. (Apply to Fr. Burtchaell for lessons.) 
Bilocation: The ability to be in two places at once, such as in bed sleeping and in class taking notes. Fr. Hesburgh has made this a fine art. 
An ingratiating smile and the ability to simulate intelligence: Intelligence itself can also be useful, but at least be able to fake it. 
Be sure to lay in large supplies of the following: 
Humility: for dealing with upperclass­men. They really do not know everything, but they like to be treated as if they do. 
Skepticism: invaluable as a protection against: B.S.: The University runs on this, so never run out. 
Sense of humor: If you laughed at any of this you don't have one. As an alternative, join The Observer editorial writing team. 
Luck: All you can get. 
.commentary~~~~~~~~~~~~!!!!!!! 
One Size Fits All 
"One size fits all: short or tall, fat or thin. our (sweater, panty­hose, skin-diving suit) fits anyone :tnd everyone." 
lt doesn't really of course, as any well-informed consumer can testi­vy. but with a little stretching here and alteration the one-size-fits-all 
nonstrosity can be made to fit most 
·people. Or, the customer can change, through stringent diet, week-long pig-out or six-hour ses­sion on the rack. to fit it. 
All of which is an allegorical way of saying that university life is designed to accomodate a variety of people and adjusting to it is mainly a matter of making it·fit you. Just figure out what you can do, what you have to do, and what you might like to do and find the best way to combine them. 
It is possible to play football, take chemistry and join the frisbee club. Or to march in the band, study accounting and serve on the hall social committee. It is also possible, although not advisable, to spend all you spare time in the library or lifting weights. 
The best part about making the University fit you is that it helps you get together with people about the same "size" or "shape." And you're not limited anymore by your high school reputation or home­town hang-ups. 
So go ahead and join the rowing team, the Young Republicans, the germ-free paper airplane design clinic, whatever-but do it now, first semester, before you have time to convince yourself you don't have time. Everybody finds college work harder than high school and most people pull quite a few B's and even C's freshman year. But if you spend all your time studying to turn those B's and C's into A's you will a) raise the curve for the rest of us, which will not mke us happy and will earn you a reputation as a cutthroat; and b) you will graduate with a 4.95 and be named class valedictorian, only to find that you don't know any of your classmates and have nothing to say to them. 
We are not here-primarily to study, remember, but to learn and learning involves a lot of things outside the cover of a textbook. There's a multitude of things to do at Notre Dame and St. Mary's and many of them are things that you may never get to try again. Most of 
Thoma~ 0' Neil Editor·in-Chief Dan Sa neht•z Managing Editor Chris Smith Asst. Managing Editor Gregg Bangs Exet·utive Editor Val Zurhlis Executive Editor Pat Hanifin Editorial Editor Bob Mader Executive News Editor Maureen Flvnn Campu~ Editor Marti Hoga~ St. Man·'s Editor Don Reimer Copy Editor 
rim O'Rcillv Features Editor Fred Hcrbsi Sport~ Editor 
commentary~~~~~~!!!!!!! 
Campus 

Jargon Translated 
pat hanifin 
mo flynn 
the clubs and organizations are listed in the Student Orientation Guide and will be represented on Activities Night, Monday, Sept. 13. Make the best of the next fom· years and welcome, freshmen. Enjoy! 

Like any close community Notre Dame has developed technical and ;lang terms of its own. These can 'e confusing to the incoming freshman who may mix up the "Rag" with the "Rock", "Kube's, and the "Nazz", or even the "Dome," with the "Dome." To help out, The Observer offers this glossary of some of the most common Notre Dame jargon: 
ACC: Athletic and Convocation Center; large double-domed struc­ture east of the Stadium, housing the ice rink, basketball arena, many other sports facilities. All-nighter pull a: To stay up all night studying. Look forward to doing this often. An Tostal: Gaelic for "Spring Festival," a celebration held in the second semester featuring events like mud volley-ball and the Ben­Hur Chariot Race. 'Brary': The Memorial Library (the one with the holy card facade). Not to be confused with The Library which is a bar. Bulla Shed: Campus Ministry meeting place across Juniper Road from Grace Hall. The name is appropriate. Circle, The: Traffic circle due south of the Administration Build­ing. Do not confuse with "Library Circle,'' the traffic circle east of the 'Brary'. Darby's Place: Late night spot in the basement of LaFortune Student Center. Features witty conversa­tion, coffee, donuts, study space. Named after Darby O'Gill, noted campus wit and philosopher. Dome: (1) The Golden Dome; (2) The Administration Building on which the Golden Dome rests; (3) hence the administration housed in that building; (4) the University yearbook. Domer: A Notre Dame student. du lac: Short for the University of Notre Dame du lac. Do not capitalize. Emil: Killer quiz given every Friday by Dean Emil T. Hofman to his freshman chem. class. You will spend Thursday nights in the 'brary studying for Emils. Ho Chi Minh Trall: The bumpy, pot-holed road north of campus running between U.S. 31 and Juniper Road. Shortcut to SMC. HPC: Hall Presidents' Council. HTH: Home Town Honey. You 

will probably forget him or her by December. Kobe's: Kubiak's Bar across the Michigan state line. Ride the Quickie to get there. lAmely God, The: Fr. Robert Griffin's pen pal. Has never been known to write back. Nazz, The: Evening restaurant restaurant in LaFortune basement featuring local musical talent. O'Shag: O'Shaughnessy Hall, housing the College of Arts and Letters. According to rumor Frank Lloyd Wright called this one of the three worst designed buildings on the continent. Panty Raid: Notre Dame's equiva­lant of the search for the Holy Grail. Occurs before first football t:; ·me. ParietaL.. : The University's method of contraception. An unpopular rule prohibiting members of the opposite sex from being in you'r room after midnight on weekriights and two a.m. on weekends. Parietals hOlJI'S: Originally meant the hours when you could have a member of the opposite sex in your room. Now usually means the hours when you cannot. Pink Slip: Little piece of paper you will get about. midsemester if you are not quite up to par in one of your classes. Usually prefixed by an obscenity. Since your parents get a copy too it is best to forewarn. them. Quickie: Shuttle bus to Michigan bars run by the Ombudsman Service. No other meanings are appropriate in polite conversation. , Rag, The: What you are reading 
now. Rock, The: The Rockne Memorial Gymnasium. .During your Phys. Ed. classes you will learn to love the Rock. SBP: Student Body President; a purelihonorary position. SLC: Student Life Council; "Full of sound and fury, signifying noth­
ing." -· SMC: St. Mary's College; prefered pronunciation is "ess-em-see," not "smick." Smick'-chick: Student of St. Mary's Use only if you mean to be insulting. Touchdown Jesus [Old TJ}: The Big Guy waving his arms on the Library mosaic. From the stadium He is visible over the North Goal Post. 
the complete michiana fun guide 
As you may have noticed, the freshman propaganda makes little mention of the charms of South Bend. Nobody wants to scare away good tuition money. When a city usually receives no higher compliment than, "It's not that bad," people try to keep it quiet. 
The complaint that South Bend is an entertainment wasteland stems from the basic fact that it is a town with a university, not a university town. Most off-campus activities are geared for the "townies," but Domers can find numerous places to relax. Especially as winter sets in, a little time-off ;n the town won't make campus life all that bad. 
Shopping ~ 
Perhaps you have noticed by now why the bookstore is more notorious for its holdups than Jesse James. It is the one place where prices and selection can be beat, and it is worth the walk or bus ride to 
try. 
When the shock of textbooks prices hits, the time has come to visit Pandora's (1). They offer a wide array of used books that can cut you bills in half. In addition, they carry out-of-town newspapers and maga­zines as well as pipes and papers. 
Downtown holds a wide variety of stores, ranging from The Pretzel Palace to Robertson's, the large department store, plus the main offices of the area banks. Five blooks of Michigan Avenue have been transformed into the River Bend Plaza (2), atree-lined pedestrian mall designed to revive the cente~ city. 
Farther away, South .Bend boasts three shopping centers. The Town & Country center in Mishawaka (3) is a typical suburban shopping center, starring K-Mart, a small Sears, plus about 40 other stores. Further south. the old Kamm brewery was remodeled into the 100 Center (41;'·a·. chic place with small, specialized shops and restaurants. On the south end of town, the indoor· Scottsdale Mall (5) comprises the largest collection of retailers in South Bend. If it cannot be found here, go to Chicago. 
To sample those old down-home Indiana during the day, one should stop in for a snack. It's nothing fancy, just wholesome truck-stop food at low prices. Just as worthwhile is watching the nightly ballet of Shirley ( a heavyweight to put it mildly) and her daughter ( an even heavier weight), as they squeeze it out behind the counter. Shirley's gets five stars from us. 
Closer to home, the Morris Inn has an "elite" dining room, but all else is overrated. Going straight down Notre Dame Ave. to Jefferson St. brings you to Barnaby's (9), a good, solid pizza and beer joint, as is Louie's (10), less pretentious but closer to campus on ND Ave. Turn right on Angela, and you can go completely Italian at Rocco's.(ll) Should the mood for kraut strike the Hans Haus serves a fall line of good German food, being located on Michgan St. South of the River Bend Plaza. 
Night Life 
Legitimate theatre exists in very limited 
fashion  off  campus,  with  most  of  that  
performing  done  in  the  Morris  Civic  
Auditorium  on  the  River  Bend  Plaza.  

Likewise, symphonic music and other concerts come to the Morris Civic. The completion of the Century City complex (the building under construction by the river) will add somewhat to the theatre capabilities. 
Movie theatres are placed all over town, with one in each shopping center, and several clustered downtown. Most of these places show firstrun flicks, though several weeks later than the premieres in larger cities. The Cinema Art downtown Misha­waka features only the best in porno flicks. 
Getting to the serious business, drink­ing, it must be remembered that Indiana is a 21 state, and determinedly so. Several efforts, including a strong push last year, failed to drag this state into the 20th century. Until the law changes, fake ID's, knowing the guy at the door, or Michigan 
, offer the only thirst quenchers. It must be 
warned that the first two offer no 
protection against the occasional police 

· vittles, try the Farmer's Market (6) on S. Eddy St. Besides the area's finest, the aisles are lined with numerous arts and craft stalls. 
Restaurants 
Dining Hall food has removed the luxury 
status from eating-out. When "mystery 
meat" meat appears for the third time, the 
time has come to run for the safety of a 
restaurant. 
Although South Bend has many better 
places, U.S. 31 north ofthe turnpike is the 
most popular place. Besides the proximity, 
this "city of franchises" (7) offers steady, 
if not great, food at reasonable prices. 
Denny's McDonald's, Pizza Hut, Kentucky 
Fried Chicken ... you name it, they've got it. 
Nestled amongst the neon you might find 
the Boar's Head, a steak and seafood 
restaurant, serving excellent food at sur­
prisingly good prices. 
For all-night eating, Shirley's White 
House (8) diner is an absolute must. Even nothing else, you can meet the locals this way. Back to this side of the stateline, the intersection of Corby and Eddy Sts ( 12) has become the drinking shopping center of Notre pame. Within shouting distance you can find three ~tudent bars, each with a large following among Domers. 

Bridget McGuire's' is the newest bar in the group. decorated in a Roaring 20's style. It features rock n' roll music and a pub-type atmosphere for drinking. Across the street, Nickie's is a more entertainment orientated bar, offering a dance floor, canned music, pool tables, and great hamburgers just in case the munchies strike. Though a forbidding black exterior could scare the unitiated, Corby's is the alcoholic home to many domers. It may get lewd and rowdy at times, but nobody complains about it being dull.$ 
Back on Notre Dame Ave., you can stop at the previously mentioned Louie's, or slither back toward the Library. Renovated under new management (after briefly being ailed the Hangup), it has music, and dancing when there is room. You enter some of the non-studfent bars in town at your own risk. 
Something recent on the South Bend scene has been the advent of Vegetable Buddies a drinking, eating, but mostly live music place· downtown. It highlights a program of jazz and blues throughout the week, as the owner tries to display the best young talents in the area. The inimate club-like atmosphere (but at nightclub prices) lends itself to a most relaxing evening 
During the Day 

Normally. most all of the daylight hours will be spent on campus for one purpose or another. But during weekends and holidays. it is best to get out and go somewhere, before the walls of the dorm close in too tightly. 
Chicago tops the list of attractions. Reachable by the bus, Amtrak, or the raid. 
To be legal. you should hop on the shuttlebus provided by student govern­ment on weekends to head north to Michigan. The nearby city of Niles has a good selection of bars if you want to go that far. 
Otherwise, U.S. 31 has several well-fre­quented bars in Michigan. Kubiak's not fancy, but often crowded. The beer may be watered-down, the band may sound out-of­tune and out-of-date, the crowds and townies may seem obnoxious, but many students come here for brash and unador­ned fun. This is also the home of the famous Junior Class Happy Hour. Shula's, not far away is classier and more expensive. You should expect to dress up a bit and get ready to dance, since they have a large floor and good bands to go with it. The bar will serve any drink you order, no matter how exotic the request. 
Along the highway are other bars of more or less greasy spoon repute. If South Shore Line, it lies not much more than two hours away. Mayor Daley·~ fiefdom displays a stunning variety of architecture, museums, store~. restau­rants, and people. No one going to Notre Dame should miss Chicago. 
The South Bend region cannot begin to compete with the Windy City for iondoor attractions. having only as few small mujseums and a relative dearth of cultural events. as previously mentioned. 
Outdoors, the city fathers pro,ided numerous parks for the citizens. which are still big attractions today. All along the river green strips were set aside and plantedc with trees. The St. Joseph River is excellent for canoeing, following a 30-mile route from Mishawaka to Niles. 

For those less enchanted by the wild, South Bend offerses the Morris Conserva· tory and Muessel Ellison Tropical Gardens. featuring a large cactus collection and several shows during the year. _Not far away in Potawatami park, the zoo contains a small collection of standard zoo animals. ~: including a hairy armadillo and a 4-horned goat. 
Outside the city, nature plays a more prominent role in the recreation areas. Bendix Park, just west of South Bend, is a 
heavily wooded area. ideal for hiking. picknicking. as well fishing. During the winter it is on of Michiana's more popular skiing areas. Thirty miles to the north. Lake Michigan attracts many students. especially while it is still hot. Besides the swimming many shoreline area have large , sandy dunes that are unusual in thi~ area. The Indiana Dune and Warren Dunes in Michigan are the most frequented park 
areas. The countryside east of south Bend particularly around Elkhart, is heavily populated by the Amish. This is one of the few areas of the country where you can see this anachronistic sect and catch a glimspe of American that has long receded into the past. 

~·······················~
Dearest freshmen, 

............................:~ 
~  ~  
. ~  H you want to write  ~ ~  
* ~  for the Observer, call the office  ~  
• at 8661, or .* .• leave a note.*  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  




the observer Saturday, August 28, 1~]'~ 
The ND-SMC Theatre announces TRYOUTS Open to all ND-SMC students. 
for HEARTBREAK HOUSE 
by 
BERNARD SHAW 
0' Laughlin Au d. 7:30 p.m. Wed. Sept 1 Thurs Sept. 2 Callbacks Fri. Sept. 3. 7:30 p.m. 

Something good has happened in mid-town Mishawaka since you've been gone. Doc Pierce's Saloon has opened its doors to lavish stained glass. everywhere. Dark woods set the mood for live entertainment six nights a week. A lavish menu that boasts of prime steaks and shrimp steamed in beer. And we certainly cant fail to mention our house specialty. Three. original portions that come in 32 ounce doses is bound to cure anything that ales ya! For lunch. for dinner. or after the game, Doc Pierce's is like no physical you've ever had. Delicious' 
Just ten minutes from campus. · 
cno.:.._,.tm:e~ BgZt»n
.. 
JUST DOWNWIND FROM BALL BAND 120 W. Main St., Midtown Mishawaka 255-7737 
ND to evaluate coeducation 
by Maureen Flynn Campus Editor 
With the 1976-1977 academic year, Notre Dame enters its fifth year of coeducation with a female enrollment surpassing the 1500 target figure set in 1972. Future enrollment quotas will be only one of the many topics to be considered this year during an official univer­sity evaluation of the coeducational process. 
According to new Assistant Pro­vost Sr. John Miriam Jones, a committee for the Evaluation of Coeducation is soon to be appoin-
ND frosh kick-off 
by V aierie ZurbUs 
Executive Editor 
This year's Freshman Orienta­
tion program stresses the aca­
demic, spiritual, extra curricular 
and dorm life aspects of student 
life at Notre Dame. 
After the official welcome for freshman and their parents at the Athletic and Convocation Center (ACC), at 7:30 p.m. today, fresh­men are invited to meet their individual hall staffs at 9 p.m. Dorm Jiving will be discussed and any questions will be answered. 
On Sunday at 9 a.m. there will be general guidance sessions for freshmen. Cards will be distri­buted Saturday in the residence halls to notify incoming stuclents of the exact meeting locations 
At 11 a.m. the traditional con­celebrated welcome mass will be held at the ACC for freshman and their parents. This will be followed by an informal picnic lunch where faculty and administrators can meet the new students and their parents. 
After the picnic ''Notre Dame Presents" an introduction to the Notre Dame musical organizations and varsity teams, will take place at the ACC. The Notre Dame Glee Club, Band and Varsity Football team will appear. 
Informal mixers will be held from 3:30-5 p.m. in the individual halls and parents are invited to attend. Also, after dinner at 7 p.m. there will be a special security orienta­tion for the freshman women at the Memorial Library Auditorium. Dir­ector of Security, Arthur Pears will talk on general security precautions and Debbie Hager, a security guard, will speak on special pro­blems for women. Sr. John Mii'iam Jones, assistant provost, will also welcome the freshmen women. 
At 9 p.m. there will be a free dance sponsored by the Student Government in the concourse area of the ACC. "Stone Wood Fox" will be performing and food and free soda will be available. 
On Monday the freshmen will register at Stepan Center according to alphabetical schedules that will be posted in the dorms and throughout campus. Following the start of classes on Tuesday the regular academic schedule will be followed. 
If there are any questions about the orientation acitivities, call Nan­ette Bufalino at 6780 or Chuck 
Colbert at 1134.
r·----THE 
-------~ 

i RESUME PLACE 25 8 1/2 X 1 l R.r\C HOND Only $2.55 
insly·prints 
203 N. MAIN SO.BEND, IND 
I 

289-6977 
ted by Fr. James T. Burtchaell, 
university provost. "The commit­
tee is in the embryonic stage now,'' 
Jones said, "and it will be announ­
ced very soon." 
The committee will be composed 
of faculty and administrators 
"whose area of responsibility has 
been particularly affected by the 
presence of the women," Jones 
said. "There will probably be a 
female rector and at least one male 
and one female undergraduate," 
she added. 
According to Jones, the commit­
tee will review the report made in 
the spring of 1972 by the first 
Committee on Coeducation and will 
''evaluate its recommendations 
against the actuality and make new 
recommendations.'' The assistant 
provost noted that the new commit­
tee "will have an experience of 
coeducation that was missing when ·the first report was made." 
"We have a full class behind us 
now," she explained. "We have 
learned a great deal and people 
have experience of coeducation in 
the classroom and in administra­
tion." 
Jones said the committee would 
also consider the 1975 report on 
coeducation compiled by the Com­
mittee on Undergraduate Life 
(COUL), a student-conceived or· 
ganization composed of interested 
students, faculty and administra­tors. 

The evaluation committee will be investigating aspects of academic life, residentiality, female faculty. "anything you can think of that's connected with coeducation,·' Jones said. ''I'm sure the positive aspects will far outweigh the negative." 
The relationship between Notre Dame and St. Mary's College will be another issue of concern to the committee, Jones said. "The ad­ministrative channels have always been kept open between Dr. Burke (retired university assistant pro­vost) and Dr. Hickey (St. Mary's vice president and dean of facul­ty)." 
In her new position as assistant provost, Jones will act as the administrative liaison with St. Mary's. She will retain her former duties as assistant to the provost, which she described as "looking after the well-being of coeduca­tion." 
''Coeducation is running on its own power now,'' Jones noted, "and it needs less day to day attention." She said the evaluation committee wil be operative during the academic year and speculated that at least part of its report will be submitted "well before the year is over." Admissions quotas for fe­male students must be set by March, 1977, Jones observed. 

Four more years......... 




Ombudsmen 
by Bob Mader Executive News Editor 
If you need to know anything fast and do not know who to call try the Ombudsman. The Ombudsman, which is an arm of Student Govern­ment, can supply you with informa­tion on any pertinent campus activity, from the name of the band to rent for a party to the name of the movie currently playing in the Engineering Auditorium. 
The service has two functions, according to its director, American Studies senior Bridget O'Donnell. The first is to supply general information via its telephone ser­vice. (#7638) It's second function is to serve as a mediator in situations where people feel there is an injustice, O'Donnell said. The Om­budsman also attempts to handle problem before they become greater. 
For example, two years ago the Ombudsman, in conjunction with the Student Union Social Commis­sion, started he Quickie shuttle bus of Michigan to eleviate the problem of students driving after visiting the Michigan bars, O'Donnell noted. 
Presently the service is com­posed of seven divisions. 
The biggest division is Opera­tions, which runs the telephone information service 60 hours a week. If they get a question which cannot be answered immediately, the Operations division will re-· search the question and get an answer back to the student as fast as possible. The division is made up of 60 people or approximately half of the staff. 
The next division is Personnel which makes sure all the divisions are adequately staffed. 
Internal Affairs handles campus elections for the Student Body President or The Student Life Council, O'Donnell commented. 
Any projects which are not in the ordinary line of business, O'Don­nell stated, are handled by Special Proje<Jts-and Serices•· 
And SWAT is not the Ombuds­man cops, but Special Works and Tactics. They take care of any last minute needs such as putting up posters, director O'Donnell said. 
Community Relations handles advertising and receptions. 
Information division has the task of obtaining all the information which Operations gives over the phone. It also publishes the Ombudsman Resource Manual bi­annually. The resource manual has pertinent information on the opera­tions of the University such as what is ·Student Government, the Col­lege of Science or student publica­tions. 
Any interested student may sign _up to work for the Ombudsman during Activities Night in LaFor­tune Student Center. According to O'Donnell, everyone who signs up will have an informal interview and 
subsequently  be  placed  in  the  
division  that  he  or  she  is  most  
interested in.  

Presently the big projects for the fall, O'Donnel said, are to publish the Ombudsman Resource Manual, update all the information they have on file, recruit new people and to supply information for visitors on football weekends in the LaFortune lobby. 
O'Donnell received her appoint­ment as Ombudsman Director last semester. A Steering Committee composed of the former director and three other staff members interviewed approximately ten people for the director's position. 
ROCCO~ 
BARBERS & HAIRSTYLISTtS 0 FULL SERVICE !!2 
~ONISEXSHOP~ 
~0 
.r~" jl"'\ ~ w· ~ 0
1-'-" !!2~ 
~ . '-~ z > all 
~~ 
·~p -t,,..C'~. 0 ., ::I~w "'00! s~ ~ \S'"'_J w
<t~ <D _J 0! ::I <( u.. <D 

19'76 the observer 
Come to activities night on September 13 in LaFortune Hall and sign up for your favorite activities. 
All campus clubs and organizations will be represented. 

Ombudsman Bridget O'Donnell [Photo by Andy Waterhouse] 

We're only a short distance north of the campus ... Tower's. 
NORTH VILLAGE MALL 

It's the perfect complement to our 
full service office inside the Mall. 
Both are open 
MONDAY THRU FRIDAY. 9:30 to 8 p.m. SATURDAY 9:30 to 5 p.m. 
TOWER 
SAVINGS 
TOWER FEDERAL SAVINGS AND LOAN ASSOCIATION 



the observer Saturday, August 28, 1976 
mhr /-~
1Kni~ts f~~ 
NE~O~~:~ ha~~n~~~!Y(LING L 
LOCAT~D on our lower level with its HAIRCUT-' 
own pnvale entrance way $5.00 CO~PLE~ PRIVACY in all' individual BLOW STYLING-$4•
5 
~~~~mlo~~~ by the fireplace in a HAIRCUT AND relaxed atmosphere BLOW STYLING FAST SERVICE for carefree cuts COM INA TION and blow styles -$8.50 WE FEATURE RK products 
PERMANENT WAV,NG ./"~~-''· by NATURAL MAN $25 
<!llueetl '5 
~astle 
54533 
TERRACE LANE Tue., Wed~ Sat. 8:31).5:30 Thurs., Fri. 8:30-8:30 
PHONE 277-1691 
)(i-Fi Tree Cov 
1!.£6: 
#;5.oo
wumf 
pAoNe:
.t.s-s--3'138
$iftffe< 
J.T fAe /00 Cen-ter 
~/.5)(A.w'AKAJ I;(. 
Rev. Dan O'Neil, director of International Student Affairs at Notre Dame conducted a tour around campus last Thursday for some 350 .students from 62 countries who will be attending Notre Dame this semester. The tour is part of a two day orientation program meant to familiarize the foreign students with Notre Dame, the U.S. and each other. 




21
Saturday, August 28, 1976 the observer 

World News Briefs 
International National 
Partition Panmunjom? 
PANMUNJOM, Korea--Repre­
sentatives of the U.S.-led United 
Nations Command and their North 
Korean counterparts met today to 
discuss a proposal for partitioning 
this peace village into two camps to 
avoid any new clashes between 
American and North Korean 
troops. 
The proposal was made by the 
North Koreans in response to U.S. 
demands that something be done to 
ensure the safety of American 
soldiers in Panmunjom, where two 
U.S. Army officers were bludgeon­ed to death last week by North Korean guards. 
The Korean Military Armistice Commission, with representatives of both sides, met across the truce table just 400 yards f::om the site of the Aug. 18 melee. It was the third full . meeting of the commission since the incident. 
Dissenters convicted 
SEOUL, South Korea--Opposition 
leader Kim Daejung and former 
President Yun Po-sun were sen­
tenced today to serve eight years in 
prison after being convicted on 
charges of inciting rebellion again 
st the government of President 
Park Chung-hee. 
Altogether 18 prominent dissi­
dents, including five, Roman Cath­
olic priests and four Protestant 
clergymen, were named in the 
charges and all were convicted. 
The defendants were accused of 
rebellion in issuing a manifesto at 
an ecumenical mass on March I. 
''~ki1og repeal of a 1>~'-'Y. 1975 
d~..-·cr:._·. ~~ ~iili:ll~-· •i ':' ··-: -1 di~,:~h·nt 
..... ­
1j' l 
a~--,~~E-
MoscoTv T~·.ce-Amcricans who admitted smuggling nearly 63 lbs. of heroin into the Sovit! Union, and 
~n;;;"is·~···~ 
• 
: difference!!! ~ : ~MitE FOif : .,. MCAT o., 1~ '"" •
of uperotnct : 
: DAT .._.,u~ctu : 
: LSAT :
SNIIclnsts 
Volumrnous hooftt
•. GRE • • 
: GMAT 'tudy '"'t'"''' : 
: .Q(AT •
Cou"" that tit : (pAT :
consl:lly u~ltd 
•. VAT :
I apt IKrlrlots lor
rt••••• ol ""' •
: SAT 
ltnons and lnr uu e
•. flEX e
of suppltmtntary
'"'''"''' . 
: ECFMG ...~.:p,, 0, ! 
• mrntd ltuons • 
: NAT'L MED BDS : 
: !'J~ ~'L.D~~1~B,f>S.: 
e Molt c!a~~oes star( 8 Week.f : 
• proor to han:' . • 
e Sprong & Foil CO'f'P•cfs • 
: Some courses nlj'erodjon e 
e Mater Ctmpuse~-e
• • • • • • ir • • • : 
: Stanley H. Kaplql'l Agency • 
• 831 Park Squar/ Avenue : 
: Bloomington, lndiana 47401 • 
•••••t • ••••: 
: CHICAGO CENTER • 
• (31?1 764-5151 : 
i~!~ 
apologized to a Moscow court for it, were sentenced Friday to varying terms of 5 to 8 years in a labor camp. 
The court said one of the Americans was responsible for the three having conspired with Chin­ese traffickers to carry the heroin-­which has a New York street value of about $3 million--from Malaysia to Europe via Moscow's interna­tional airport. 
The Americans were arrested June 27 in the transit lounge of Moscow's Sheremetyevo Airport. All admitted transporting the drugs in false-bottomed suitcases. 
Rain, but no relief 
LONDON Rain fell Friday on drought-stricken London and Sou­thern England for the first time in 38 days, but a weather Bureau spokesman said, "It was hardly enough to wet the dust.'' 
The bureau said the early morn­ing trickle did nothing to ease the drought, the worst in Britain for 500 years. 
Less than one millimeter of rain fell on the parched south, the bureau said. The most rain was recorded in Manston, south of London--1.2 millimeters, about .02 inch. 
Master faker confesses 
LONDON ''The master faker of the century" has confessed he painted 2,000 forged masterpieces in the past 25 years. but he says he left clues detectable by x-ray that gave them away as phonies. 
British artist Tom Keating. 59. 
'>aid he painted the imitation!> in a 
:~~;._·-n-.,_~n c.u~·::i.~: fl! ·lllp:..._ .::.nd 
; ~;:;-.i r Jit dt~::h_--;-·-It I ~-..., •. · ·.:):') 
~'i. ~--.. i .1!'~.:. -~ ;~~·· __ j 

~: ~ . forgcrit', ", ·e first disclosed last week when he wrote a letter to The Times of wndon saying he had turned out copies of the works of the 19th century artist Samuel Parker. He made the disclosure after Times' art correspondent Geraldine Norman said the works were fake. 
Artificial gene created 
CAMBRIDGE Mass.--Scientists say they have artificially created a gene, the basic unit of heredity, and planted it in a living cell, where it worked like its real-life model. 
The discovery at Massachusetts Institute of Technology was descri­bed by biologists as a major breakthrough in the study of gene­tics. 
It .culminates nine years of research by Nobel laureate Har Gobind Khorana. 
Ax-handle image' splits party 
· CIDCAGO Lester Maddox, still declaring himself a segregationist and still critical of fellow former Georgia governor Jimmy Carter, has been nominated as the presi­dential candidate of the American Independent party. His nomination Friday night produced immediate dissent within the splinter party, which Alabama Gov. George C. Wallace used to run for president in 1968. "New Right" conservatives, mi,ny of them Ronald Reagan Republicans disgruntled by Presi dent Ford's victory in Kansas City, said they would not support Mad­dox because of his segregationist views and what some called "his ax-handle image." Many of them left Chicago even before the party met today to select a vice-presidential candidate. 
No comment from 'flip-flopping' Carter 
~-t


C:.~--~ ~-:ho ~·as ttume ir Pia;-· '·~ .. did not immediate!\ ro;sp.-.;,,; to a barrage of criticis1n made Fl'iday at a news conference by Ford and former Texas governor John Connally. The Democratic presidential candidate i1as said previously that he wouldn't re­spond to personal attacks unless they are made by Ford. 
General Store 
• Water Beds 
• LEATHER GOODS 
·MAGAZINES 
·Newspapers ·CLOTHING ·Posters 
·CANDLES. ·Jewelry
•Cards •INCENSE •Rugs •Tapestry ·Bedspreads ·PIPES 
·PAPERS 
•lites 
·NOVELTIES 
·BOOKS 
113 West 
MonroeSt 
ONE BLOCK \NEST OF THE NEW POST OFFICE 

The Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore located on the Campus is ready to serve you· · 
'Dependable Quality At Students' Prices' 
Text Books --New & Used Paperback Books School Supplies Drawing Instruments Drawing Supplies 
Stationery Typewriters Expert Radio & Typewriter repair 
Cameras & Film Notre Dame Jackets 
Sportswear 
Mono;Jram Blankets 
Toilet Articles 
Desk Lamps_ 
z. 
Religious Articles 
Jewelry & Class Rings Radios & Records 

Typewriters for Rent -­
• TIST"'fii'AIIIIA1t0N • • "'CIA&. 1$ fS SINf""f I Ill • 
,.._, ___,.. ... ~~~ 
Rental May Apply Toward the Purchase of Your Own.Machine 
12121---•• 
• l•rc~• " -....or u $c ':·t••' •• 
hours 9:00-5:00 Monday-Saturdav 

. 
' ­
.. I' .. ,. , • , • ;II. • , ,

• • o. o • "•' ·,,,,~ ·.:~ • ..,·. ,·,·,, . ' I I ·',•. • », __ ~ ,'•,' ••~••,... ;t'l ., ,., 


27__ -----l_!he obser~e,__r_-=---~-S_a_turday, August ~8, 1976 
Judge rejects NFL attempt to block Delaware State lottery 
WILMINGTON Del. (AP) -A federal judge rejected an attempt Friday by the National Football League to stop the State of Dela­ware from starting a professional football lottery next week. 
U.S. District Court Judge Walter Stapleton turned down the NFL's request for an injunction to block the state from beginning the nation's firs~ state-run professional football betting program. 
In his order, Judge Stapleton ~aid he did not agree with NFL attorneys that the league would ~uffcr "irreparable harm .. from the lllltt:r~. 
Ticket'> arc scheduled to go on sale next Wednesday. 
Judge Stapleton's opinion, only one and a half pages long, gave no further reasons for his decision. 
Lawyers for the NFL had argued during a court hearing Wednesday before Judge Stapleton that the "forced association" with gamb­ling would change the "public perception of the game from the scoreboard to the tote board." 
But lawyers for Delaware said the game would merely be an extension of the office betting pools and cards played illegally by mil­lions of persons for years. 
Delaware expects to make about $2 million this year on the weekly 
Varsity status awarded to women's tennis and fencing 
Women students have two new opportunities for varsity competition this year in tennis and fencing. With only 365 women enrolled the first year of coeducation in 1972, tennis seemed to be the most desired activity for a future varsity team. This year's anticipated undergradl1ate women's enrollment of 1550 has established the depth of talent and interest and a resulting feeling that Notre Dame can confidently field fine, first class teams from its own study body. It is projected that in another year or two some team sports will achieve varsity status, again coming from the Irish student body. 
Emphasis shall be focused on the scope of a well-rounded program with quality, not exhausting the presently limited funds with recruiting. This school year there are no scholarships for women athletes. The situation is under study by the administration. 
Led by new coach Kathy Cordes, the women's tennis team will work conjunctively with the men's team, but the schedules and records will be separate. The popularity and enthusiasm of the sport has created a good following and challenging competition. There is a definite trend for nationally ranked young women to use the collegiate arena as grooming for the professional circuit. 
On the other hand, the highly organized International Fencing Federation has led the way for women to compete from the local city club, to the college campus, through all degrees of amateur competition to the Olympic Games. It is a sport where youth is overshadowed by experience. Notre Dame is proud to have such an experienced and nationally recognized fencing Master as head coach, Dr. Michael DeCicco. He is pleased to complete the fencing team with a women's foil division, as is typical of other teams. The women will have equal status, equipment, travel allowance and coaching. In most cases they will compete with the same schools and tournaments, but will only cross foils against women adversaries. 
Under the strong leadership of D.J. "Nappy" Napolitano, the Non-Varsity Sports Office has planned and included women in the intramural and club sport activities since 1972. An array of intramural and inter hall tournaments will be conducted with options of single sex leagues and co-ed leagues in appropriate sports. Slight differences occur such as women playing flag football, while the men's teams are fully equipped with protective tackle uniforms. The club sport program allows students with a common interest in a sport for competition with other schools in those sports which are not varsity. Skiing, rowing and sailing have included women as equal members since 1972. This year the other clubs include men's soccer, men's rugby, men's lacrosse, men's bvxing, women's gold, women's basketball and women's field hocky. Each is provided with a limited budget for travel and equipment but need to raise additional monies with fund-raising projects and donations from alumni and friends. 
Astrid Hotvedt, coordinator of women's athletics, advises the women's club sports, as well as directs the implementation for new teams and activities which interest women students, such as the Dancin' Irish (a dance and drill group), volleyball, spring track and badminton. This list is not inclusive but design in relationship to the interest, equipment and available personnel. A service group exists, Women's Athletic Association, which provides numerous tasks, such as hostesses for our visiting teams, officiating corps, equipment managers, athletic trainer aids, publicity corps, statisticians, and even public address announcers for our emerging women's athletic program. It is not Notre Dame's intention to have a separate women's athletic department, as the women can benefit immensely from Notre Dame's nationally renowned coaching staff. Hotvedt wants to provide experiences for women who may not be talented for the varsity team, but wish to be affiliated with them. What is ~r.re, the young program needs many hands to make the work light. 

This Sunday, Aug. 2Sth 
NO COVER CHARGE with this coupon
*Must be 18 or over! 
ON STAGE TONIGHT: 
Nowhere Men 
SBDUS 
111'1'1 CLUB 
On U.S. 31 N. [1 Mile North of the State Line] CONTINUOUS ENTERTAINMENT FROM 9 P.M.llll 2 A.M. 

game. Some of the other 13 states 
with lotteries were reportedly con­
sidering beginning the same type 
of lottery and were waiting to see 
what happened in the Delaware 
case. 
The lottery would have two 
parts. 
One, "Touchdown," would re­semble football cards in which a person would bet on three, four or five games and would have to pick both the winning teams and point spreads. 
The second game, "Football Bonus," would have two slates of seven games each. A bettor could wager on one or both sales. 
During the hearing, a number of legal poirts were raised, but much of the time was spent debating the effect of the lottery on the NFL. 
Norman Veasey, a lawyer for the NFL, claimed that missed passes in the end zone would result in public cynicism about whether the player had a lottery ticket. 
But James Mulligan, a special attorney for Delaware, claimed that the game would only legalize the illegal pools that have been used for years. 
Judge Stapleton said he would confer Monday with attorneys on both sides to consider further moves in the case. 

Despite the hot, humid weather of the past week, the Irish 
' 

gridders have been preparing for their opening game with Tony Dorsett and the Pittsburgh Panthers two weeks from today. Under the watchful eye of Head Coach Dan Devine. The Irish hold their first scrimmage of the fall this afternoon. 
RECORDS! 
ROCK TAPES JAZZ
. 

POSTERS FOLK CLASSICAL SOUL SPECIAL ORDERS TOO! 
Big Daddy's Record Shop  .,.~~<1&f ..,. Q .  
52303 Emmons at Georgetown  (j. 01  
1Y2 miles north of campus  
277-2166  

WELCOMES YOU 
BEFORE YOU PAY MORE, CHECK US OUT FIRST. ALL $6.98 LIST LP's ALWAYS $4.99 
*ROCK *CLASSICAL 
*  BLUEGRASS  
*  45's RPM  
*  LEATHER  

* T-SHIRTS 
*SOUL 
*COUNTRY *IMPORTS * 8 TRACKS 
*JEWELRY 
* NEEDLES 
*JAZZ 

* BLUES 
*CUT-OUTS *CASSETTES 
* PIPES, 
PAPERS *MAGAZINES 
ACROSS FROM TOWN & COUNTRY SHOPPING CENTER 
HOURS: MON-SAT SUNDAY 



Saturday, August 28, 1976 the observer 

A FASHIONABijl~ 1~1~1~ 

l I I I 
1 
l 
l 
.... l l 
I 
I I I I 
J 
l 1 I 
l 
I 


Nl~ S(~()rl~ri~SilAijl~ MAijlj 
SEPTEMBER HAPPENINGS 
PSYCHIC FAIR 
SQUARE DANCERS 
AUGUST 28 & 29 

GEM & MINERAL SHOW 
SEPTEMBER 1 -5 

FRED THE COCKATOO 
SEPTEMBER 14 -18 

ANNUAL HOME SHOW 
SEPTEMBER 23 -26 



....:.·...

f, ' o ' • ~ J ..,, • • ' ' .......,. I 
.Sl<; 
-~-; 

..,,lturd.n. August 28, 1'l7fo
the obsP· ver 
And, in conclusion, we present: 

Our top stories I 
_I 
from last year 

Academic Calendar 
1. The Academic Calendar once more became an issue when the Academic Council voted Dec. 3 to return to a pre-Labor Day start and week-long midsemester break, while eliminating the Friday after Thanksgiving as a holiday. After a student "laugh-in" protest, a student petition and expres­sions of dissatisfaction from St. Mary's administrators, the Council met again on jan. 20 to reconsider the calendar guidelines. In a close 23-22 vote the Council decided to reinstate theFriday holiday, provided ~students would attend one Saturday class. 
~ 
~
1)­
I 
~ 
~ 
rt 
"tl 
* 
X} 
1'( 
-
t::t ~ 
Mock Political Convention 
2 The Notre Dame Mock Political Convention held March 3-6, nominated Sen. Hubert Humphrey as its presiden­tial candidate with Georgia legislator Julian Bond as his running mate. The convention was addressed by a number of prominent public figures, and was spiced by controversy over pro-abortion and pro-busing minority planks. 

Duggan to SMC 
3. Dr. john M. Duggan, former vice president for student affairs at Vassar College, was inaugurated as the eighth president of St. Mary's College at a formal convocation in 0'Laughlin Audi­torium on Sept. 7. His inauguration ' marked the end of one-and-a-half-year search for a president, a position left vacant by the resignation of Dr. William Henry in the Spring, 1974. 
Calendar revision includes Friday holiday
li ii~~m 

~~~ II 
IEllil 

Not so Devine rumors 
4. On Oct. 20, while the Irish were battling back from a 20-point deficit to a 31-30 victory over Air Force, the nation rocked with rumors that Notre Dame Head Coach Dan Devine would be fired and replaced by Ara Parseghian until Don Schula of the Miami Dolphins took over in the 1976 season. The rumors were denied by Fr. Edmund P. joyce, executive vice-president of Notre Dame and chairman of the faculty board of athletics, who termed them, "vicious and malicious with absolutely no founda­tion." 
Drug bust 
5. Three Notre Dame students were arrested April 2 for possession and delivery of a controlled substance. Two of the students were charged with the sale of amphetamines to police agents, while the third were charged with the sale of marijuana and amphetamines. The Notre Dame community was first made aware of the activities of undercover vice squad agents on March 10. Dean of Students james Roemer, who released the origingal information, suspended the three students despite earlierassertions that he would not "do anything to prejudice the students' pending case." 
Collective bargaining? 
6. The Faculty Senate and a large number of students have protested an administrative decision to eliminate all evening departmentals and hold them during he 8TT10 time period. The decision , announced Apr. 5 will take effect in September and no regular classes will be scheduled for the 8TT10 period. University Provost Fr. james Burtchaell said the change was designed to free student's evenings for other campus events and/or early studying. 

Marchetti confirms CIA spotters 
Ca/11 for•trlcr•r .:unlrol on CIA 
• --. 
~ 

Glickstein defends hiring policies ~~~;,~"E 
CIA on campus 
7. Former Central Intelligence Agent Victor Marchetti said in a lecture Oct. 1, that some Notre Dame faculty members acted as CIA contacts on campus as recently as 1967. Marchetti said he conducted a study of CIA contacts at universities in 1967 at the request of then CIA Director Richard Helms, and that Notre Dame was one of approxi­mately 100 universities involved. A spotter is a faculty member who looks for students with potential to become "clandestine agents," Marchetti said. 
Drinking bill 
no go 
8. A bill to lower the drinking age in Indiana to 19 was killed jan. 19 before reaching a vote in the Indiana House of Representatives. The bill was withdrwn by supporters to prevent certain defeat. The defeat ended a year of intensive lobbying by members of the Notre Dame student body under the leadership of Tom Black and jerry Klingenbergber. Loss of support for the bill was blamed on the approaching Indiana primaries and candidates' unwillingness to support controversial issues. 
Affirmative action 
9. Notre Dame's affirmative action program for the recruiting and hiring of women and minorities was formally apporved by the HEW in October, following testimony before a Labor Department committee by two members of the University community. Fr. james 
T. Burtchaell, University provost, told the committee on Oct. 1 that affirmative action procedures as applied to higher education were often unreasonable and challenged the withholding of federal· contracts to enforce social policy. Howard A. Glickstein, former director of the Notre Dame Center for Civil Rights, had testified in favor of such measures in Aug. 20. Representatives of the University's female and minority elements also disagreed with Burt­chaell's appraisal of the need for affirmative action. 
I 
·-I 
50 plus 12 

10. Over 200 representatives of 62 colleges and universities from across the country met at Notre Dame Nov. 21-23 for the "University 50 Plus 12 Seminar: A New Look at the Old Sauce." The representatives spent the weekend dis­cussing the problem of alcoholism and proposing ways of promoting responsi­ble drinking habits at colleges and universities. The primary tangible result of the three-day conference was a catalogue, The College Catalogue on Drinking, to be distributed to universi­ties across the nation . 
And five more 
11. In ND-SMC politics, Gassman-Casey overwhelmed two opposing tickets to win the student body elections Feb. 23, while Bilek-Coyne-Stolz were unopposed in the SMC elections March 29. Both elections were marked by voter apathy, with Mike Gassman and Mike Casey winning 66 percent of the votes cast by only 49 percent of the student body; Mary Lou Bilek and her running mates, Cathy Coyne and mary Ann Stolz, received a 
59.7 percent "yes" vote on a "yes-no" ballot. Only 10 percent of the St. Mary's student body voted in that election. 
12. 
Difficulties in securing business electives and the cut-throat competition in the accounting department are two of the major problems resulting from overcrowding in the business school, according to business students. A student teacher ratio of 28.3 to one in the business college compares with rations of 9.1 to one in arts and letters, 6.1 to one in science and 9.4 to one in engineering The staffing problem was emphasized during registration when even senior majors were closed out of electives and, in some cases, required courses. 

13. 
The Faculty Senate and the Notre Dame Chapter of the American Associa­tion of University Professors [AAUP] co-sponsored a series of informative speakers on the issue of collective bargaining. A spring 1975 Senate survey revealed 42 percent in favor of collective bargaining, 43 percent against, 15 percent undecided and 53 percent in favor of bringing the issue to a formal vote. 

14. 
USC weekend produced more than one skirmish as Dean of Students james Roemer had "offensive" signs and banners with sexual connotations re­moved from University buildings at the request of University president Fr. Theodore Hesburgh; Edmund Stephan, chairman of the Board ofTrustees and other University officials. Roemer was briefly charged with forcibly entering a student's room to remove a sign,but was able to prove the charge false. Roemer described Hesburgh's reaction to the signs as "grim" and "white-faced." 

15. 
Dr. Emil T. Hofman, dean of the Freshman Year of Studies announced Feb. 16 that he was resigning his position of five years to devote full time to developing new techniques and preparing two chemistry books for publication. In a surprise move March 30, Hofman announced that the had accepted a nomination for the position as Dean of Freshman year. "I want to be able to continue working with freshmen in the way that I have in the past few years," Hofman said. "I think that it is themost important job I could do in the remainder of my career." Hofman is currently undergoing the five-year re­view required by the Academic Manual. 




5
ust 28, 1976 the observer 

ND Dean Roemer: The Nine Commandments 


The Observer asked that I contribute my 
reflections for this issue primarily for the 
benefit of freshmen and their parents. My 
wife, Mary Ann, and myself have gone 
through the trying experience of having 
our two oldest sons leave home for a 
university thousands of miles distant. 
Some young people go through this 
"break-away" experience with relatively 
little homesickness and others discover it 
to be emotionally very difficult. Few of the 
students know what a difficult experience 
this parting is for the parents who now face 
the pattern of a home that is changed by 
departure of their beloved son or 
ND Dean of Students james A. Roemer 
daughter. 
Does a parent expect the University to assume direct parental responsibility for their daughter or son once that parent returns home and leaves that young person in the care of our residence half personnel? The students themselves are usually heard to insist that tney do not wish to have anyone "in loco parentis." Many students would agree that they want people in the community who will look out for their best interests but they don't want anyone attempting to fill their parents' shoes. They wisely recognize that no one can fulfill the tremendous and awesome re­
[photo by Andy Waterhouse.] 
sponsibility of a parent. 
Notre Dame is a special place. It is uniquely different from most public uni­versities since we are primarily concerned with those Christian values that involve the richness of our relationships with people here and everywhere. I know of no other university with 1500 active students (out of an undergraduate population of 6800) who involve themselves in such things as Neighborhood Study Help tutoring for disadvantaged children and organized concern for the world hungry and year-off "CILA" programs with the poor and care for the retarded and elderly in the community, to mention just a few of the activities that these great students elect. My own affection and commitment to Notre Dame comes mainly from my regard for the kind of people that live and work here. Many of the close friendships Mary Ann and I treasure are with Notre Dame people and many of these work with students in some residence hall capacity. 
My wife and I are constantly amazed at the motivation and the goodness of the people whc elect to live in these residence halls. It is a tough assignment to make yourself available to young people con­stantly day am night. These people never get enough time to refresh themselves during the school year. 
Frankly I don't see myself standing in the shoes of parents. I doubt seriously that h:11l staff personnel view themselves in that awesome capacity. The relationships be­tween University staff people and students is completely different from a parent-child relationship. The parent can spend all day and all night with an individual son or daughter when that person is sick or in trouble or in need of help. A Rector doesn't have that much time in a single day for several hundred students. 
In a university community where stu­dents live together. they must live under some system of regulations that govern the behavior of the people in the community. '·A college campus suffers little violent crime, but more reckless mistreatment of property and thoughtless abuse of one's fellows ... In a university, concern for the social order and for personal growth is a function of education ... Notre Dame is further committed to be a place where men and women become more humane and where Christian ideals will be realized ... Rational and experienced rules are an aid to comradeship and they are essential to a voluntary society." 
There are only nine University rules at Notre Dame. The first five involve injury to another person, a disregard for another person's property, and dishonesty. The remaining four involve alcohol, drugs, human sexuality and parietal visitations. 
Students who are beginning here at Notre Dame should know that these rules should be taken seriously since they will be enforced in accordance with their spirit and intent as expressed in the du Lac. 
Students can't drink alcoholic beverages anywhere on the campus grounds with the exception of private residence rooms and licensed bars. Students must assume personal responsibility for abiding by the laws of the State of Indiana with regard to alcohol. In Indiana, you must be 21 to drink alcoholic beverages. 
I have stressed to the Rectors and Assistant Rectors and Resident Assistants in these past two days of orientation that the parietal rule must not be taken lightly. Women must be out of the men's residence rooms by midnight on Sunday through Thursday nights and at 2:00a.m. on Friday and Saturday. The men must be out of the women's residence rooms at these same times. The parietal rule does not prohibit visitation after these hours in other common rooms, such as lounges or the Student Center. 
We are strong in out attitudes against drugs. If you use or provide drugs to others, you will encounter serious diffi­culties with the University. 
At Notre Dame "we cannot refrain from 
challenging each other to develop attitudes 
towards human sexualitv that are authen­
tically Christian ... Because a genuine and 
complete expression of love through sex 
requires a commitment to a total living and 
sharing together of two persons in mar­
riage, the University believes that sexual 
union should occur only in marriage." 
So, to the extent that we have this small 
number of rules, we do assume some of the 
responsibility of a parent. I suppose all 
authority figures do. However, I don't 
think most of us do it because we want to 
be a parent to students. We insist on these 
rules of behavior because our own human 
experience has shown us that these types 
of regulations are essential in society. Most 
of us have learned that we need to develop 
values that are helpful in our relationships 
with other people which are not destructive 
or harmful or abusive. So we offer our own 
experience in affirmation of the ideals of 
this University. 
I am a positive rather than a negative 
person. Most of my time is spent on 
positive issues and my sense of humor is 
well exercised each day. Hopefully this 
year will be a very positive one for 
everyone in this community and for you 
parents and families at home 
James A. Roemer Dean of Students 
(All quotes used are from the du Lac manual, the green book which is dis­tributed to all Notre Dame students.)


r--------------------------------. 

• TACOS 
• 
IIRRITOS 

• 
EIICIIlAIAS 

• 
TOSTAIOS 


CAMPUS VIEW APARTMENTS
• TAIIAI!S • TACO 101 •lfAIITACO • • IARBEQIE TACO 
* 
UNDER NEW MANAGEMENT * 
BABY TACO
SCOTTSDALE MALL 
• SPAIIISI lOT 101
291-3142 • CIEESEHRIER
• 
--Vacancies this fall MORE AND MORE : 
IIHI•Izl•l , "' WIETA/1111/1$. ,,. ... ,.. --Furnished 2 bedroom apartments
MEATLESS TACOS, TAIIAliS. EIICIIlAIAS, IIRRITOS, lEAl TACOS, ul TOSTAIOS Ill SPECIAL FOR STUDENTS! FREE SOFT DRINK~ HEN YOU BUY 3 ITEMS 
--$300 per month 

: TIMM PARTY STORE : 
--9 month lease

:oPEN: MON -SAT 9 am -11 pm! : SUNDAY 12 noon -11 pm •
• 
: COW BEER, PACKAGE UQUOR,: 
--Convenient location

•
• WINE, GOURMET FOODS :
•
• 3114 S. 11 ST. NILES, MICIDGAN: 
:1 MILE NORTH OF IND.-MICH. STATE LINE ON U.S.31: 
Contact office Moo -Fri, 9 -4 272-140 


6 the observer Saturday, August 28, 1976 
The Observer interviews Fr. Hesburgh 
Two different sides of the road 
EDITOR'S NOTE: The following interview the students are responsible so we give
f with Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C., them a greater responsibility. We've also president of the University of Notre Dame, included students today in practically all of was conducted on June 9, 1976, by the different bodies of the University that OBSERVER editor Thomas O'Nell. discuss and legislate on various aspects of the University life, like the Academic OBSERVER: Being in your 25th year as Council, the Student Life Council and all University president, and seeing the the college councils, and many depart­wenty-flfthincoming freshman class, how mental committees. :lo you think students have changed over OBSERVER How does the poUcy and the years? Specifically, the freshmen? the practice of 'In Loco Parentis' fit in? In 
I other words where do you draw the Une
HESBURGH: I think they get better every 
between the student taking responsibllity 
year iil the sense that more people are
I· for him-or-herself and the university taking 
trying to get in, and the competition to get 
responsibllity for the student? 
I in is a lot tougher. I think we're at a point 
HESBURGH: I have a very special way of 
I now where we couldn't really have a much 
looking at 'In Loco Parentis' which, as y{)u
I better class from all over the United States 
know, means 'in the place of the parent' in
~ as we have coming in this year. Eighty-five 
Latin. I don't think that when students are
I to ninety per cent of our freshmen are in 
l old enough to go to college and take ~orne
the upper twenty percent of their classes 
responsibility for their own educahon-.-I
from over a thousand high schools all 
don't think you should have to nurse-matd
I across the United States and 62 foreign 
them. Growing up is a process of
J ::ountries. That's about as good as you can 
emancipation. Self-discipline is more
l do anywhere in the world for students. 
important than imposed discipline. I do
l 
think, however, there is something parents are involved in with kids even when they ~ OBSERVER: Do you see these students 
expanding intellectually over the years? 
1\ccepting greater responsibllity? For in­graduate from the university ?r ev_en after thney're married. That, I thmk, ts really
•tance, as a result of the llberal changes since those of 1967? 
caring about them and caring about wh~t kind of people they are. I would say thts 
HESBURGH: Well, you get a lot of 
university should always be in the place of 
~hanges in mentalities of the students. 
the parents as far as caring about ~hat 
Students used to be a lot more politically 
kind of people young people are becommg.
active in the late sixties than they are 
OBSERVER: Can 'caring about students' 
today, although they may be more politi­
be defined as 'moral gnidance?' 
cally active this year because of the 
HESBURGH: Well, it's moral guidance in 
quadrennial elections. I think the concern 
the sense that some students, although
of students for the welfare of others less 
relatively few, act in a very immoral way at 
well off is more marked today in many 
times, and I think, if so, they ought to be 
ways. Last year I think we had over 2,000 
called on. For a university to have any
students doing volunteer action all over 
reputation, any standing at all as an 
town in a variety of things from crippled 
educational body, it has to have standards: 
younsters to old people who needed help. 
academic standards, moral standards,
It's a very good thing and it has increased. 
value standards. When you say 'In Loco 
That's a very good sign. 
Parentis' you're really saying students aren't being watched or being overly-regu­
OBSERVER: How do you think the 
lated, and I agree with that. I don't want to 
University structure should adapt to the 
be a watchdog or a policeman. On the
change in students? In '67 the University 
other hand I have to care about what
adapted insofar as losing part of its 
students are doing in general and how
reputation of being the 'West Point of the 
they're behaving, and if I get word that
Midwest.' 
students are doing things that are com.. 
EIESBURGH: I think that's been a gradual pletely bad, I have to care about that, and hing over many years. We were fairly in some cases I have to do something about ight in our disciplinary arrangements 25 it. 'ears ago, and gradually over the years OBSERVER: Years back it had been Ne've tried to give more responsibility to considered wrong for the students to go out :he students, and have given them more of to the'bars and drink. A great deal of the a concern for their own lives and their own social life today is dependent on a student well being. We assume today that most of meeting his friends at the bars. Does the 
For freshman, the main iob is to trv to eet 
incoroorated into a lareer communitv and 
to learn how to make the transition from 
hieh school to universitv. 
university stlli frown on that? HESBURGH: No. I have thought that one thing students should learn during their four years at Notre Dame was how to drink. 
And I regret we can't drink on campus. I think students get in trouble drinking because they have to go some distance to be able to drink. When they get there they drink as much as they can in as short a time as they can and get in trouble. Whereas here, if you could drink on campus in accordance with the Jaw, people wouldn't be in such a hurry about it, and we wouldn't have any trouble. Learning how to drink in American society is very important. I think it's part of the total the day you start doing that is the day you 

arrive here. In a sense you have to get your 
vertical roots in first before you can start expanding. OBSERVER: What advice, then, in general would you give the in-coming freshman? HESBURGH: First of all, to have some goals about what they want to accomplish while they are here. One thing they should hope to Jearn here is how to be an intelligent Catholic. If someone were to ask me what would be the fruit of a good four years of college education I'd say to come out of it being very, very curious 
I don't think that when students are old enoueh for colIeee and take some resoon­sibilitv vou should have to nurse-maid. 
education. OBSERVER-Where do you see Cathol­icism entering into the undergraduate education? HESBURGH: Well, I think, first of all, I would hope that no one gets through here without knowing what it is to be an intelligent Catholic in today's world. There are many things that people, to be an intelligent Catholic, should know and learn, and not just in a Theology class. I don't think that it's a Mickey Mouse kind of Catholicism. I think it's a very mature 
kind of Catholicism. 
OBSERVER: For the .incoming freshman, adjusting to the university may prove to be a difficult pasttime. The freshman is often stlli in a transitional period of his Ufe. HESBURGH: It's a tough year. I went back some years ago and read the diary I kept during my first three months here. I was surprised how I really did come through, although I was homesick. But gradually I was coming to know a lot of new people, and the more new people I met the Jess homesick I became. After finishing four years and going home, I found it was pretty dull in some ways. The old neighborhood wasn't as bright as I thought it was. What it is is getting out of some pond into a big pond. The problem around here is that practically all the freshman had been class officers, had edited the school paper, or about 70 per cent of them had been monogram winners in one sport or another. They come here, having been very big fish in a very small pond, and they find they're all quite small fish in a rather large pond. 
For freshmen, the main job is to try to get incorporated into a larger community, academically and to learn how to make the transition from high school to university. Then the student should start roaming a little about the university, and start expanding his interests. But I don't think 

about everything. How to get some joy out of reading, and to get some sense of art and culture. OBSERVER: What about the parents of these incoming freshmen? HESBURGH: I find the toughest thing for parents is to cut loose from their children, and I don't mean cut loose in the sense of not caring about them anymore, but to have them start down their road, and Jet them make their own mistakes. Generally speaking, I haven't found this to be a great problem with parents. There are some parents who are overly protective, and some who don't want to let the youngster go, but I think the fact that parents are bringing their children to Notre Dame, hopefully they're making an act of faith that this is a good place in which to grow up. Notre Dame is a good place to make mistakes, because you can correct them pretty well here, and people care about you correcting them, and good people are willing to help you correct them. Given the fact that human beings are fallible, and that the Lord struck out on one out of twelve, that we're going to have our failures, the majority of people are going to be enormously improved after four years at Notre Dame. OBSERVER: On a more personal note, what's your favorite drink? HESBURGH: Well, on a very hot day, I like Lowenbrau. With a very good meal I like Burgandy wine. Sometimes after a long day and before going into a long banquet, I like a Manhattan. Other times, I may drink Scotch, depending on the occasion. OBSERVER: What about the wo­men? Do you like redheads over 
blondes? HESBURGH: My dad told me once that the blonds are prettier, but the brunettes are better for the long run. I'll quote my father on that. My mother was a brunette. OBSERVER: Thank you, Fr. Hesburgh. 





~.­
... 
Saturday, August 28, 1976 
the observer 
7

And Dr. Duggan 
With two different perspectives 
EDITOR'S NOTE: The following Interview with Dr. John Duggan, president of St. Mary's CoUege, was conducted on June 21, 1976 by OBSERVER Editor Thomas O'NeU In preparation for this Issue. 
Observer: What kind of woman does St. Mary's CoUege attract? 
Duggan: Most of our students tend to be largely upper middle class, middle class persons from good schools. They tend to be pretty much "together." They produce one of the most enthusiastic, supportive, civilized, friendly communities that I've ever seen on a college campus. 
The thing that strikes you at St. Mary's is that it seems to be a community where people genuinely like one another. It's the kind of place where students give each other the sort of support that is necessary for growth. 
Observer: What kind of woman does St. Mary's hope to give back to the outside world? Is she this person who cares, who Is intelligent, Christian •••? 
Duggan: Exactly. And one who uses her education not only for herself, but also for those around her, whether she be a career woman, a wife, a mother or both or all three. One who takes some active interest in social action where she lives. 
Observer: Is this part of the role change you referred to in the woman's world? 
Duggan: The woman's role is changing since many women are entering careers. What we have to do is to be sure that when they leave St. Mary's that they are in a position to compete effectively with the males from the best undergraduate liberal ·arts colleges. Not only intellectually, but we have to give them a sense of confidence in themselves and the ability to understand the situations they are likely to get themselves into, to deal with, say unwar­ranted male aggressiveness or to know where to turn for the kinds of support 
services they might need. 
Observer: What Is the relationship between the administration and the stu­dent body in respect to social relations at St. Mary's? Do you see things as being founded and operated by the sisters of the Holy Cross. They have some expectations about the kind of an institution which they wish to own and operate, and I think that's a reasonable right. There are many interests that enter in, and the students are only one constituency. Certainly parents have some expectations about conditions under which their children live. But for a Catholic college it is not enough to put the administration in the role of innkeeper. We have much more to do here than simply to keep a lid on what happens. 
more  rigid at St. Mary's than  at  Notre  
Dame?  
Duggan:  Like  Notre  Dame,  we  also  

Observer: Where do you see Cathollclsm entering into the undergraduate education today? 
Duggan: Well, we say loudly and clearly that we are a Catholic college. Most of our faculty and undergraduates are Catholic. As a Catholic college we have some obligation to be sure that those who graduate from St. Mary's know something about the Catholic religion. It seems to me we ought to arrange ourselves in such a way that those people who come to St. Mary's not knowing a great deal about their religion should know more about it and come out with a deeper understanding of it. 
Observer: What kind of advice would you give people entering St. Mary's CoUege? 
Duggan: I think women coming into St. Mary's really need to get tuned into the fact that they are a woman in a women's college, and not wait until their junior or senior year to begin to think through the relationship between the four years they'll spend at St. Mary's and what it is they're going to be doing after commencement. And we're trying to get our office of career planning and placement geared up to help freshmen begin to ask the tough questions which students used to put off-about what it is they want to do with their minds both after college, during marriage, and after their children are raised. By that I don't mean to imply that everybody should run into business administration, which tends to be a kind of a fad in response to the economic condition. I think one of the responsibilities I have as president of this college is to enunciate regularly, clearly, and loudly the value of a liberal arts education. I get the feeling today that it's sort of dropping between the cracks, the economic cracks, becvause of what people read in the newspapers. A liberal arts education is really education for the long 
We are the St. Marv's Colleee that IS• across the street from the Universitv of Notre Dame. I think that it's the best of both worlds. 
maintain a policy of "In Loco Parentis." Historically it's been a relatively conserva­tive, almost cloistered environment at St. Mary's. For instance, when I arrived here, the visiting hours were untillO o'clock on weekends. The students I had talked to when I was interviewed were anxious to have those hours extended to midnight. I thought that was a reasonable request. One of my first acts as new president was to extend the hours from ten o'clock until midnight. I thought ten o'clock was unduly restrictive. Whether twelve o'clock is exactly the right hour or not, I don't know, but it's an hour that I'm comfortable with and I gather it's made a significant improvement in the social life here. I understand that towards the end of the last year there was some concern expressed by some of the student body ...tbat those weren't the appropriate hours. I haven't heard those arguments in detail yet, but I'm prepared to listen to them. But I reserve the right to myself and to some important student affairs committees that we have to make the final determination. In short, the rules are not "up for grabs." 
Observer: Father Hesburgh sees moral training as part of the whole undergrad­uate education. Do you and the St. Mary's administration belleve the same? 
Duggan: No question. Our college is 
haul. Observer: Do you ever foresee the day when St. Mary's could become a univer­sity? 
Duggan: I don't think so. Who's to say what is going to happen, but I think that it would be hard for us to become a university without an unnecessary duplication of services between St. Mary's and Notre Dame. We offer something special in that we are a women's liberal arts college. 
This also has implications for the parietal thing we were talking about earlier. It seems to me, besides the moral question, there's the psychological question. If we have joint classes with Notre Dame, and we do, and we're pleased about them, and we hope that Notre Dame is pleased about the opportunity to study on our campus, that's good. But if we took the next step and had, say, the same parietal hours as Notre Dame has, the question I would have to ask is in what sertse do we remain a women's college? We have men in our classrooms. If we also have men as visible prominent figures at most waking hours in the dorms, what is this special thing that we offer that is an opportunity for women to grow and develop and test themselves with other women? This is, I think, one of the strongest arguments for limitations on the presence of men in the dormitory. 
Observer: Could · you ever foresee CO· 

-

education at St. Mary's? 
Duggan: It's clear that St. Mary's is going to remain a woman's college. That's what's special about this school. We will never become co-educational. It's unlikely that the college will become larger than it is. We will not change our essentials as a Catholic Liberal Arts Institution. In my mind it's impossible. It just isn't in the cards. I think it's going to remain what we are now, except that I think the college is on the threshold of a real golden age. We've got a lot going for us. We're the best women's Catholic college in the United States. We're probably the best women's college in the midwest. What I'd like for us to become is the bestwomen's college, or among the five best women's colleges, by standards some external judges would impose. 
Observer: Getting back to advice for the Incoming freshmen and for the outgoing parents of these freshmen••• 
Duggan: I think the advice is to use the college. It's there to be used. It's important for our students to remind themselves regularly that they are in the age of opportunity in their lives and if they choose not to take advantage of as many opportunities as they can accommodate, they're going to have themselves to blame. In a way, college is a kind of sojourn. It's 
unknown in the annals of civilization that society could offer this kind of sojourn ­four years of uninterrupted self-study and study of the world around you. For those who boot it, while it's easy for them to rationalize now, it's something they're going to regret for the rest of their lives if they don't take full advantage of it. 
Observer: What do you see as the strengths and the weaknesses of the St. Mary's -Notre Dame relationship? 
Duggan: I think it's a long, enduring, mutually supportive relationship. It's in the St. Mary's interest that Notre Dame is what and where it is, and in Notre Dame's interest that St. Mary's remain a small independent college. I'm told that some of the problems that have developed came after Notre Dame introduced co-education. 
The main problem is the stereotyping of Notre Dame women vis-a-vis St. Mary's women. Those stereotypes, as I hear them, are unfortunate and incorrect. It seems to me that the St. Mary's women and the Notre Dame women have much more in common than either group has with the Notre Dame men, but we've got to figure out ways for those relationships to grow and for identifications to develop. 
We are the St. Mary's College that is across the street from the University of Notre Dame. That adds a dimension both intellectual and social to our college that makes it the envy of a good many women's colleges in the United States. We'd be crazy not to acknowledge that, and to be grateful for it. And yet at the same time we have a strong feeling about our own independence. I think, as I have often said, that it's the best of both worlds. 
Observer: What ls your opinion of alcohol on campus? 
Duggan: The state legal drinking age i5 21, and that poses difficulties for institu· tions. But I think the law is going to be changed. When the law's changed we will respond in an appropriate way and provide opportunities for civilized drinking. I think the college would be in an awkward position if it took a position counter to the law, but when we can we want to provide a supervised facility. We would also prefer if our students didn't go off campus to drink, and run the danger of accidents and less safe conditions than we can provide ... 
Observer: In other words, you would be in favor of a bu on campus If the law allowed lt? 
Duggan: Oh, yes. Certainly. 

Observer: On a more personal note, what ls your favorite drink? • 
Duggan: Beer. I used to like Rhinegold when I was on the East Coast, but Blatz is a pretty good substitute. 
Observer: What's your favorite ldnd of 
woman? blonde? Brunette? 
Duggan: My favorite kind of woman is an intelligent, loving person who's seeking to understand herself and those around her, and make a difference to the world. 
Observer: Thank you, Dr. Duggan. 


~-­
the observer Saturday, August 28; 1976 
8 
ND-SMC Who's Who 
by Gregg Bangs Executive Editor 
There are somewhere over 10,000 people wandering around the ND-SMC campuses on any weekday tnrougnout the scnool vear. Out of these 10,000 who form ihe Notre Dame-St. Mary's com­munity. there naturally are those that tend to come in contact with a 

FR. JAMES T. BURTCHAELL 
they are more important that others, but their roles are such that they will catch the attention of the community. 
Their roles may be either big or small; their contact with people can come in the form of leadership or community service or a simple "hello." In any case, the following list of people comprise a "Who's Who of the Notre Dame campus. Acommunity member need not look out for the following names be­cause they will make their presence known by their actions. 
Fr. Theodore (Ted) Hesburgh, President of Notre Dame---The Prez. Leader of the community and its chief public relations agent. Said to be here as often as good weather. Rumored to have the properties of a glorified body including the ability to be in two places at the same time. 

ED KAZMIERZAK 
-
• 
Dr. John Duggan, President of St. Mary's---He is the end result of a long search for a head of St. Mary's College. Coming from Vasser wh11:h just recently went co-ed, he should bring many interesting philosophies. (See in­terview on page 9). 
Fr. James Burtchaell, Provost of Notre Dame---The seemingly non­descript title should not deceive you for he seems to have a hand in everything. His decisions will af­fect you on issues ranging from "final" times to academic sched­ules. 
Fr. Edmund Jovce. Executive Vice-President of ND---Although not as public a figure as Hesburgh or Burtchaell. he is the financial Wizard of Notre Dame. He is the '>econd in command at ND. 
William Hickey, Vice President and Dean of Faculty of St. Mary's-­Was interim president of St. Mary's for quite some time. Has good rapport with students and is easily recognizable in his white shoes. 
Kathy Rice. Dean of Student Affairs at St. Mary's---A Bostonian who recently came in to take over the position long held by Sister Mary Alice Cannon. 

STEVIE WERNIG 
Steve W ernig, Assistant Dean at St. Mary's---A late 1960's St. Mary's graduate who has come back to add leadership abilities as well as a breath of fresh air to her alma mater. 
Emil Hofman, Dean of Freshman Year of Studies and Professor of Chemistry at Notre Dame---Emil's Friday quizzes are infamous. He also heads an excellent freshman year staff. 
Bro. Just Paczesny. Vice Presi­dent of Student Affairs at Notre Dame---He of the unpronouncable name. Also known for his rather straight forward answers (Ask any Observer reporter). 
James A. Roemer, Dean of Students at Notre Dame---A thor­oughly likeabk guy in a thoroughly disliked position. 
Fr. Robert Griffin, University Chaplain at Notre Dame---Witty conversationalist. deouty officer at Darby's place, Observer columnist and pen-pal-of the lonely god. 
Darby O'Gill, Campus -Wit and Philosopher at Notre Dame---Also happens to be proprietor of Darby's place and chief leaf chaser on campus. 
Fr. Bill Toohey, Head of Campus Ministries---Relevant celebrant of the 12:15 Sunday mass at Sacred Heart. 
Richard "Digger" Phelps, Head Basketball Coach at Notre Dame--­Witty, yet straight forward speaker and dynamic coach. Also rumored to be looking for a job as a professional fashion model. 
People you're sure to meet 
Dan Devine, Head Football 
President's CounciL---He's in Coach at Notre Dame---The quiet charge of the body of people that man who looks like a journalism run Mardi Gras. Another trivia professor has taken over control of note: he is the second HPC head in the gridders. Is rumored to have a row that was no longer president bought out Digger Phelp's collec­of his hall. tion of leisure suits. 
Kathy Kane, President of Walsh Hall---Kane has the rather largeLefty Phillips, Head Hockey task of being both a hall presidentCoach at Notre Dame---The most and the HPC's representative ininconspicuous of the big three the Student Life council. With thatcoaches. Some say he looks like a many meetings to attend. Kanetrainer. 
might be hearing motions and Ed Kazmierzak, Supervisor of seconding votes in her sleep. Rockne Memoriai---Ed always 
Marti Hogan. St. Mary's Editor seems to be in the Rock; many of the Observer---Hogan i" the first think be lives there. A considerate SMC editor of the Observer to have man who never seems to forget a offices at SMC. lncidentallv. herface or name. 
offices are located in the Regina 
Vy (Violet). Cashier at the Hud­Basement too, so if you get lost dle---"How ya doin' honey?" Whe­trying to find the Student Govern­ther you hear those words at eight ments offices, you'll probably run in the morning or eight at nite, they into the Observer offices. 
FR. EDMUND JOYCE 

never fail to cheer up your day. 
Tom O'Neil. Observer Editor-in­Just hafta smile when you talk to Government and has his hand in chief---Is being head of a collegeVy. everything. 
daily any way to spend your senior Lois, Server at line I 0 and 9 at Mike Casey, Student Body Vice year? O'Neil thinks so--therefore the South Dining Hall of Notre President at Notre Dame---Mike he deserves everything he gets.Dame---If you didn't learn your 
Casey is a combination of Mayor 

Chris Smith. Assistant Manag­manners at home, Lois will teach 
Daley, Lee Marvin and an Irish 

ing Editor of the Observer---Retur­you them very quickly. Make damn 
fighter. Also happens to be a hard 

ning for his seventh smash year assure you say "Please" when you worker. 
a Notre Dame undergrad, Smithask for seconds. 
Ken Girouard, Press Secretary of intends to drop the seven year itchMs. Ryder and Ms. Reasoner, Student Government and Senior and graduate. If you go up to theSupervisors of the South Dining Class Secretary---Ex-News Editor Observer offices, Smith is theHall at Notre Dame---More than of the Observer who now serves as tornado that just flew by.
anybody, this pair has been respon­
a much needed official liaison

sible for the decline of food fights Gregg ("Boom-Boom, Beach Ba­
between Student Government and

in the mecca of the sport. (War­by") Bangs, Executive Editor of
the Observer. Also known to do

ning: Ms. Ryder is usually in white The Observer, resident gimp on
extensive fieldwork at local down­

and Ms. Reasoner in blue.) 
campus and the author of thistown taverns. 
Red Faced Little Irishman who article. I have never lost a staring cleans up the South Quad---When Rob Tully. President of the contesr. you think it's fit for neither fare nor Senior Class at Notre Dame---Like foul. he'll climb out from behind a his predecessor Augie Grace, Tully Butch Kubiak, Owner of Ku­bush or tree to show that humans plans to become a fixture at the biak's Stateline Bar---If you ever can survive the South Bend win­Senior Bar. Greatest achievement get too rowdy at Kubiak's, Butch is ters. was moving Happy Hours from the flattopped 6'4" bartender who 
The Bald little guy who walks Kubiak's to Fat Wally's. throws you out on your posterior. around the library---This fellow can Ken Ricci, Student Union Direc­
AI Hunter, halfback of the NDbe met in five minutes by simply tor---There are so many divisons of football team---Hunter moves asputting your feet up (without taking Student Union Ricci is rumored to fast on the dance floor as he does your shoes off) on any piece of have taken a memory improving on the football field. Should be thelibrary furniture. course to remember them all. 
good will ambassador of the team.
Bro. Louis, Swim Test Super­Bridget O'Donnell, Ombudsman visor---Even if you think you're Director---Head of the memory Dukie Walsh, center for the John Naber or Kornelia Ender, center of ND, Notre Dame hockey team---As good 
as he is at hockey, it is rumored he
Pat Flynn, Junior Class Presi­

secretly wants to become a profes­
dent at Notre Dame---Flynn is 
sional boxer.

living proof that Dillon Hall resi­dents can be trusted to run a class. Bill Paterno, forward-guard for the Notre Dame basketball team--­
Lisa Moore, Yearbook Editor of 

By default Paterno is now the sole
the Notre Dame Dome---Putting 

captain of the hoops team after you 
out a college yearbook is no easy 

know who went to the Olympics
trick. For trivia fans, Moore is the 

and the Buffalo Braves. Also
third sucessive editor to come from 

known as the Apple, PaternoWalsh Hall. 
and his team the Average White 
Suzy Puhl and Cindy Callahan, Team are two time losers in the 
Editors of the St. Mary's Blue annual Iron Man B-ball tournament 
Mantle,---Perhaps two editors are finals. 
better than one? Who knows? 
John Phelan, Editor-in-chief of the Notre Dame Scholastic---A


"'t 
e.t ,.~ t' Scholastic veteran who knows to make things work. If you see a blue backpack at the door of the Scholastic, you'll know he's in. 
J.P. Russell, Head of the Hall 

KEN GIROUARD 
he'll tell you otherwise when you take the freshman swimming test. 
Mike Gassman. Student Body President of Notre Dame---That 's right folks, his name is Gassman and over sixty per cent of the students who voted in the elctions thought he wasn't full of it. 
Mary Lou Bilek, Student Body President of St. Mary's---One can sympathize with Bilek and SMC government when you find out Student Government Offices at SMC are hidden in the bowels of Regina Hall. She should ask for a map to be made to find the place. 
Vince Moschella, Executive Co­ordinator of Notre Dame Student Government---Sounds like an abs­tract title, huh? Moschella is the 

FR. THEODORE HESBURGH
jack of, ,all trades at Student 







