On abortion 
Ford opposes amendment 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Presi­ns. unborn children." dent Ford said Tuesday he would Among the Democratic presiden­Jackson has issued a campaign oppose a constitutional amendment tial candidates, Sen. Henry Jacks­statement saying he believes "life prohibiting abortion, but prefer-s on shares Ford's views on letting begins with conception, and I am one that would give states the right the states decide but has not opposed to abortion terminating a to decide such issues. suggested, as Ford did, a constitut­pregnancy which is not a threat to 
"I do not believe in abortion on ional amendment to allow this. life or health." demand," Ford said in a television The only other candidate to come While Jackson said he opposes interview. But. he added, that out for a flat ban on abortion by amending the Constitution to proh there must be some flexibility in demand is Democrat George Wall­ibit abortion, he added he believes the law to permit abortion in cases ace of Alabama. Both Wallace and "state legislatures should have the involving the mother's illness or Reagan have endorsed an amend­power to enace legislation regulati­rape. ment banning abortion except in ng the practice of abortion, which 
Describing his views as "a extreme cases. was the accepted view of the moderate position." Ford addres­Most other candidates have satd constitutional power of the states sed the abortion issue in an they are against abortion in princi­prior to the Supreme Court decisi­interview with CBS correspondent ple but oppose amending the on... '' Walter Cronkite. Constitution to ban it. This would require a constitutio­
He said that while he did not nal amendment, and Jackson did agree with the Supreme Court's not call expressly for one.
Abortion amendment pending

1973 decision legalizing abortion, Sargent Shriver, another of the he had taken an oath of office to Democratic contenders, has said he uphold the law as interpreted by At least a dozen constitutional opposes abortion but would uphold the court and would do so. amendments are pending in Cong­the Supreme Court ruling. He has 
The high court has ruled that a ress which would circumvent this suggested alternatives such as state cannot bar a woman from ruling by granting states sole contraceptives and psychiatric aid. obtaining an abortion from a licen­jurisdiction over abortion. (continued on page 7)sed physician during the first three There are 40 more proposed months of pregnancy. The decision amendments which would outlaw permits the regulation of abortion abortions at the federal level. The in the second three months of most stringent of these would ban pregnancy to preserve and protect any abortion from the moment of the mother's health. And, states conception. are permitted to forbid abortions in The proposals backed by Reagan the final three months. and Wallace would have the effect 
of returning to the situation prior to the Supreme Court ruling, when

Disagrees with court 
abortions generally were banned but allowed in specific emergenci­

Ford said, "I do not believe in es, such as for rape victims or when abortion on demand. I do not agree the mother's life was in danger. with the court decision." Ford said he is against these 
He said he agreed there were proposals for prohibition at the instances, such as illness of th federal level but noted some sugg­mother and rape, "when abortic estions in Congress that control be 
university of notre dame sf mary's college 
Vol. X, No. 78

should be permitted." But, he sa returned to the states. 
Wednesday, February 4, 1976 he felt the "preferable answer "If there is to be a consittutional was through an amendment that amendment. .. " he said, "I think would permit the states to make that's a preferable answer." 
Collegiate Seminar encourages
their own decisions on their own Reagan told a rally of anti-abort­abortion laws. ion activists ina telegram last Press Secretary Ron Nessen, month that he supported their work 
students to investigate program
expanding on Ford's views expres­''to insure that the right to life will sed in the interview, said the belong to all human beings born or by Barbara Breitenstein of the few non-freshman under-to take the course are the biggest President "does not support a unborn. Passage of the Human Life Staff Reporter graduate courses that brings stu-problems," Eidt stated. 
constitutional amendment to pro­
Amendment is the most certain dents from all four colleges to­hibit abortion. He really feels that way to insure this. I support it." gether. He also stated that having The necessity of the seminar has 
In order to obtain student re­a large percentage of students also come into question since theif there is to be any further action in The amendment referred to is 
this area ... individual states should sponsored by Sen. Jesse Helms, sponse to the program, the reading the same materials stim­adoption of the Senior Values decide." R-N.C., and is one of those which Collegiate Seminar Committe wiL ulated discussion between stu­Seminar last October. Through the \>resident would have the effect of allowing meet in open session with students dents. Values seminar, a required course abortions only in exceptional cir­this afternoon at 4:30 in the library "Finding the right people to staff for the 1979 graduating class,
Ford's suggestion Tuesday that the auditorium. the program and a negative atti­seniors will discuss their morals
abortion question be left up to the cumstances. states puts him at odds with Wallace isued a policy statement The meeting, open to all stu­tude among the students required (continued on page 3) Republican challenger Ronald Re­Monday opposing legalized aborti­dents who in have taken
are or agan, who says the federal gover­on and calling for a constitutional Collegiate Seminar, is part of an nment should outlaw most abortio-amendment to "protect the lives of information-gathering process 
Collective bargaining report
through which the committee is investigating the program. "The idea is to look at the 

to highlight faculty meeting
seminar and gather information by 




talking to all groups who had any 
contact with it, before making any 
suggestions," explained Prof. Phil· 
ip Gleason, committee member. 
The committee, which consists of 
five faculty members and one 
student, was set up by Arts and 
Letters Dean Isabel Charles last 
October as a result of a Committee 
on Undergraduate Priorities 
(COUP) report which recommend­
ed the seminar be abolished. 
"Our change is to examine the Collegiate Seminar and to make recommendations," Assoc. Prof. John Roos, committee chairman, stated. "A wide range of alterna­tives is open." 
Students have best view 
Part of the purpose of the open meeting is to hear students' sug­gestions. according to John Eidt, student committee member. "We're anxious to hear what they have to say,'' Eidt said, "because the students have the best view of whether the course is productive or not.'' 
The results of the meeting today, written comments submitted to the committee, and past students course evaluations will be added to the information which has been gathered in meetings with teachers and past chairmen of the program since October. After compiling and discussing these results, the com­mittee will submit their report to Dean Charles sometime in March, according to Roos. 
Eidt cited one advantage of Collegiate Seminar as it being one 
by Maureen Flynn Campus Editor 

The Faculty Senate will hold its first meeting of the second 
semest~r tonight at ::30 in Room 202 in the Center for Continuing 
EducatiOn. Accordtng to Senate Chairman Paul Conway, the 
meeting will be devoted primarily to four major concerns. 
Expected to generate the longest debate and last on the 
meeting's agenda is a special status report from the Senate's 
Committee on Collective Bargaining. 
According to Conway, the report contains investigation by the 
Senate. The Senate will discuss the priority of each item, Conway 
said, to determine "the path we will follow the rest of the year." 
"We will discuss our objectives," Conway explained, "and 
decide which is the best way to pursue them." 
The Senate meeting will open with a discussion of guidelines for 
the terms of office for appointed academic officers. There are no 
such stipulated terms at present, although there is a provision for 
review of incumbent officers every five years. 
Among those officers who would be affected by the proposal are 
the provost, the college deans and the deans of the Freshman Year 
of Studies and the Law School. 
Conway ~aid the Faculty Senate will also "adjust" the language of a section of its Report on Appointments and Promotions passed in part by the Academic Council at its meeting Jan. 20. 
The proposal in question outlines the" procedures to be followed for faculty appointments and promotions. It incorporates a proposal passed by the Academic Council which requires department chairm~n to provide re.asons for any negative decision involving reappotntment, promotion or tenure upon request by t.1e faculty 
member. The larger proposal, however, requires alteration · .!cause the Academic Council rejected a section which would have established a third-party body to hear such grievances. The function of the appeals board would have been to consider the case in question and make recommendations to the University president. 
In rejecting this section of the Senate's proposal, the Academic Council also passed an explanatory statement to the effect that the faculty member's right to an explanation in no way entails the right to bring suit against the University on the basis of that explanation. 
The third item on the Senate's agenda for tonight would change the Academic Manual to provide for two professors emeriti on the Faculty Senate. 
Faculty Senate meetings are open to interested parties. 
Wednesday, February 4, 1976

the observer For Hearst trial 
,___News Briefs--­
t=-========lntemational 
Gunmen hold up school bus 
DJmOUTI, Afars and Issas Territory--Four gunmen held 31 French schoolchildren and their driver hostage yesterday in a school bus stalled under a broiling sun, demanding that France grant immediate independence to this small East African territory, officials said. 
French officials said negotiations were deadlocked. 

I===================National 
Man plunges to hisdeath 
NEW YORK--A young man climbed over the guard railing on the 86th floor observation roof of the Empire State Building and plunged to his death yesterday. 
The last person to jump from the roof of what once was the world's tallest building fell in 1963, a spokesman said. The total number of those who have jumped is now about 17. 

Morton takes office 
WASHINGTON--Rogers C.B. Morton was installed yesterday as President Ford's political right-hand man, saying the job is essential and that only hypocrites claim government and politics can be separated. 
Even as Morton was sworn in as a $44,600-a-year counselor to the President, Democratic party leaders and lawyers conferred about their stalled effort to require that his salary be billed to the Ford campaign, not to the government. 

l]oldwater knew ofCastro plot 
'<\SHINGTON--Sen. Barry Goldwater, a member of the Senat Jcommittee which traditionally has monitored the CIA, disclose, terday that he learned four years ago of U.S. efforts to kill 'l's Fidel Castro in the early 1960's. Goldwater told reporters he took no action because "it was
r 
1erely talk and if it was part of a presidential plan it wasn't my tsiness to make it public." 

Dangerouspreddent' 
SAN FRANCISCO--Secretary of State Henry A. Kissinger said yesterday that Congress has helped set a "dangerous precedent" by cutting off U.S. support for anti-Soviet forces in Angola. 
"It is the first time that the United States has failed to respond to Soviet military moves outside the immediate Soviet orbit,'' he said. "And it is the first time that Congres has halted national action in the middle of a crisis." 

--On Campus Today___,_. 
9am-5pm --volunteer programs, peace corps and vista represen­tatives, lib. lobby. 
6pm-12arr --mardi gras, stepan. 
6:30pm --meeting, sailing club, 204 eng. 
--fencing, all freshmen invited, fencing gym, ace. 
7:30pm --meeting, faculty senate, 202 cce. 
"':3( ,m r-lecture, american scene: "influence of american thinking on the revolution", by robert byrnes,carroll hall, smc. 
8&10pm --film, "freaks", eng. aud. $1. 
8:15pm --concert, becky stauffer, soprano, lib. aud. 
--mardi gras, medieval weapons demonstration, society9pm for creative anachronisms, stepan. 
*The Observer 
Night Editor: Marti Hogan Ass't Night Editor: Debbie Dahrling Layout Staff: Paul Schappler, Denise Persinger, Chuck Bod­kin, Jim Guerra, Bob Brink Day Editor: Maureen Flynn Copy Reader: Gregg B. Bangs Editorials: Jim Eder Sports: Bill Brink Ad Layout: Sally Dentz, Tom Walrath, Mike Miller, Tom Whelan Typists: Neil Viii, Mel Cel­este, Tom O'Neil, Howard Halle Night Controller: Dave Rust 



Jury selection nears finish 
SAN FRANCISCO (AP) -Patri­that opening arguments will start cia Hearst's lawyer said Tuesday tomorrow.'' some of "the best jurors" for her Thus, in another of many strange trial may be those who "can recite twists in the Hearst case, opening chapter and verse" of her bizarre arguments and testimony were adventures in the terrorist under­scheduled to start on the second ground. anniversary of Miss Hearst's kid­
F. Lee Bailey made the comment napping by the Symbionese Libera­as the secret jury selection was tion Army. reported near completion in the It was Feb. 4, 1974, a chilly, young heiress' trial on federal bank rainy night, when Miss Hearst, robbery and weapons charges. then 19, was dragged screaming 
By the noon recess Tuesday, a from her Berkeley apartment. The total of 30 persons had been named story of that night and subsequent to the pool of 36 prospects from chapters in her violent travels which the jury will be picked, and through the underground were well Bailey declared: "It's a certainty known to most potential jurors 
British government orders resolution in Northern Ireland 
BELFAST, Northern Ireland (AP) -Northern Ireland's consti­tutional convention was reconven­ed by the British government Tuesday and given 30 days to work out a solution permitting Roman Catholics a share in governing the Protestant-dominated province. 
The session in Stormont Castle, the traditional seat of power in the strife-torn province, opened with prayers for the 78 members. 
"They'll need them," said one political commentator. 
Neither British officials nor Uls­ter's feuding politicians held out much hope that the convention would agree on a power-sharing formula to end the 6'h years of sectarian bloodshed in which near­ly 1,500 persons have been killed. 
The nonlegislative body failed to reach agreement on power-sharing in six months of tortuous delibera­tion last year. 
Hardline Protestants opposed to giving Ulster's half-mil­lion Catholics any meaningful voice in running the province recommen­ded that London restore majority-­or Protestant--rule, suspended by the British government four years ago. Prime Minister Harold Wil­
n's administration rejected that :~and and told the convention to 1.,, again. 
Most Protestants, who outnum­ber the Catholics 2 to 1, believe power-sharing would be the first step toward the militant Catholics' eventual aim of uniting Ulster with the neighboring Catholic Irish re­public. The Protestants want to remain under the British crown. 

ERRATUM 
There was an error in yester­day's "Senior Class to inaugurate last 100 days" story. The "Greaser Night" at the Alumni Club will be held Friday night, not Saturday as reported in the article. 
The Obserller is publiShed Monday through Friday and weekly during the SUITI'11I!t'" session, except during the exarrs il1d vacation periods. The Observer is publiShed by the students Of the Univ. Of 1\tltre Deme il1d St. Miry's College. Subsaiptions may be pul"d\ased for S18 ($10 per semester) fro11 The Observer, Box Q, Notre Dame, lndiil"la 46556. Semnd Class postage paid, Notre Dilme, IN 46556. 
ART PRINT SALE ANYPRINT$3 ANY2FOR$5 ANY3FOR$,6 

THIS WEEK ONLY!!! 
LAFORTUNELOUNGE 
The government, however, still holds slender hopes that the next month will give William Craig, a Protestant hardliner-turned-mod­erate, time to swing enough sup­port behind his campaign for an emergency coalition with the Cath­olic's main party, the Social Demo­crats. 
Rice to speak 
Professor Charles Rice of the Law School will speak on Civil Rights and Military Justice in the Library Lounge Thursday, Feb. 5, at 8:00 pm. This talk is presented by the Military Affairs Society in cooperation with the Law School and Army ROTC. 
questioned, Bailey said. 
"There are some who can recite chapter and verse of every single detail of the past two years," the attorney told reporters. "They were not necessarily disqualified. Some were accepted, and many of them could make the best jurors." 
Bailey, who had requested the secret interrogation because of publicity, said "very, very few" prospects were dismissed because of exposure to reports on the case. 
The prime concern of defense attorneys, he said, is that the jurors eventually sworn "have no ftxed views on intent." 
The key to the defense case will be the contention that Miss Hearst was victim, not volunteer, when she carried a machine gun into the Hibernia Bank on April 15, 1974. 
Bailey said that some potential jurors interrogated in secret during ftve days were "more sympathetic than you would imagine" toward Miss Hearst. 
Members of the Hearst family were again admitted to the secret sessions Tuesday. 
Study in 
Guadalajara, Mexico 
The GUADALAJARA SUMMER SCHOOL. a fully accredited UNI­VERSITY OF ARIZONA program, will offer July 5-August 13, anthropol­ogy, art, education, folklore, his­tory. political science, language and literature. Tuition and fees, $195; board and room with Mexican family $280. Write to GUADALAJARA SUMMER SCHOOL, Office of Inter· national Programs, University of Arizona, Tucson, Arizona 85721. 

---~-------------,



~ 7G~j~ I
presents
• • I 
I ''FREAKS'' I!I TONIGHT 8&10 !I 
I ENGINEERING AUDITORIUM I I ADMISSION $1.00 I 
L----~--~~-~-------------~
NOTRE DAME -SAINT MARY'S THEATRE TRYOUTS FOR 
MY HEART'S IN THE HIGHLANDS 
by 
William Saroyan 
Tuesday, February 3 at 7:00 p.m. Wednesday, February 4 at 7:00 p.m. 
Callbacks Thursday, February 5 at 7:00 Lllboratory Theatre WaShington Hall at 1\tltre Dilme Please use iron staircase in rear Open to all Notre DarTe . saint MirY's students. 
-~·············································



I SENIORS!!! i 
! SENIOR TRIP Balances will be ! :collected STARTING Monday, Feb 2: ! Mon-Fri 12-1:15 p.m. !
• 

i LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER i5 (outside Student Activities Office) 5 
e FRESHMEN e ! SOPHOMORES ! i ANDJUNIORS i 5 There are a limited number of ! 5 seats avaliable for ! : THE SENIOR TRIP ·: ! TO FREEPORT ! 
:· see a senior class officer or drop off i : a $50.00 desposit at the : 5STUDENT ACTNITIES OFFICE ! 


!DEADLINE is Feb Ill 
..............~l!!l·•·••..•••••g••····-··········· 

Wednesday, February 4, 1976 the observer 


Mardi Gras needs more student participation 
by Maggie Brydges Staff Reporter Current reports on Mardi Gras' progress range from "fair" to "unfavorable", according to its directors.  organizers, stated she didn't notice an appreciable difference between this year's turnout and that of last year. "We've had to compete with hockey games", she said, "but there's been a lot of .cooperation to help things go smoothly."  tic. Harry-Spellman, Mardi Gras Chairman, said they are currently faced with a deficit. Spellman stated they would probably break even, but that it is "highly doubtful this year's Mardi Gras will share the success of last year's". He  worry." Returns from the raffle were also deemed "mediocre". Enough books have been sold to clear expenses, but many more sales are needed to exact a profit.  dents are also offered a chance on the television. The raffle will be held on Sunday, February 8 at 4:00 p.m. Fr. Hesburgh will draw the win­ners.  
Peggy Foran, one of Mardi Gras'  Most reports were less optimis­ cited bitter weather as a probable deterrent to business.  Two dollar rebates are offered to students for each book :sold • if  Students are urged to come out to Mardi Gras within its last five  
Both Foran and Spellman stated there has been very little problem with cheating or disruptive behav­ior. "Intimidated dealers usually account for a few problems in the  they produce the books at Stepan Center to Peggy Foran. A Mardi Gras button, entitling the wearer to free entry, will also be awarded to the ticket salesmen.  days to help make it a profitable affair. Spellman stressed the fact that "Mardi Gras has plenty to offer, even for the non-gambler". Rock and folk groups provide  
beginning," Foran said, "but after the first few days they become experienced and it's no longer a  The prizes include a Nova and a t;OII?r television. Ticket-selling stu­ nightly entertainment and help to make Mardi Gras a good time in the name of charity.  
K ofC holds Valentine's Day dance  
by Patrick Cole  daily routine.  don't like running  a  formal  on  a  
Only 38 more days until spring break! however, it may seem like 38 years!  With the South Bend weather,  Senior Staff Reporter The Knights of Columbus is sponsoring their second annual St. Valentine's Day Semiformal at the Holiday Inn in Niles, Mich. on Saturday, February 14. Ted Plis, Chancellor of the Knights of Columbus and chairman of the event, explained why the Knights of Columbus is sponsoring the dinner dance. "We feel that Valentine's Day is a special day and that everyone on campus should be able to enjoy a nice dinner and evening away from the  The cost is $15 per couple which includes transportation both ways, and a full course meal. The cocktail hour with the meal begins from 7:00 p.m. to 9:00 p.m. Dancing concludes the night from 9:00 to 1:00 a.m. Music will be provided by a live band. Plis commented on the arrange­ments for the formal. "In order to reduce the price to a minimum, the event was set up on a break even basis. At $15 per couple, we will have just enough money to meet our expenses, provided that we don't run into any additional costs, and that we sell all of our 100  break-even basis when there is that much money on the line," he continued. "Very simply, the price could not be any lower than it is." Plis is optimistic about the ticket sales. "After a slow start, tickets are now going very fast," he said. I think that this can be attributed to the fact that the initial reaction to the dance was that it's too expen­sive, but now after re-examining what they are getting for their money, most people are beginning to realize what a good deal it is. Consequently, ticket sales have jumped," Plis added. Tickets for the formal may be  

purchased at the North and Southtickets. We are dealing in expenses Dining Halls during dinner hoursin excess of $1500."

HPC seeks alcohol policy changes 
and at the Knights of Columbus "Most dorms and organizations building at any time. 
by Matt Kane meet the dance's expenses. Flight, University services, and Admin­Staff Reporter a group from Chicago, will be istration policy. It is hoped these playing. informal meetings will help the The Round Table discussion will HPC recognize problems, find soil!_· The Hall President's Council involve nine different committees tions and act upon those problems. welcomed two new members last of made up of section leaders from The draft of the HPC constitution 


Pipes

night with a draft of its new different halls. The purpose is to was distributed to smaller comm­constitution procedures of the generate ideas to improve student ittees made up of presidents from HPC Round Table Discussions and life. Topics for discussion include every Hall. It is hoped the constitu­an apology from the Student Union. hall activities, student government, tion will be approved next week. 
The HPC also approved a letter seeking changes in the University 
Charges dropped for those 
Papers
alcohol policy. The HPC also sent 
party guide lines and planning 
forms to the administration. 

arrested in Fat Wally's raid 

The new members, Tom O'Neil ft Oiflon and Dave Bender of Sorin, by Karen Sikorski son said. "I think the arrest served 

Etc.

.!!.sJ. listened to Student Union Staff Reporter as a warning to those involved, so representative Cathy Smouse apol­that students will think of underage ogize for not informing the comm· drinking as breaking a law, which it 
Charges have been dropped ittee about a ski trip planned by the against all six of the Notre Dame­is in Indiana," she added. newstand and general store
St. Mary's students arrested for

social commission. This trip fell on The students helped the Liquor
underage drinking in a January 23

the same date as the north quad Excise Control Board with their dance which is sponsored by the raid at Fat Wally's. investigation of the Fat Wally's HPC and the North Quad halls. The students appeared at a incident by giving statements on She acknowledged that there is Monday morning hearing in Divi­the details of the raid. Information sometimes a problem in commun­sion IV of the St. Joseph County provided by the students would not 
Superior Court, where Prosecutor

ication among the several Student be used against them if they were Union commissions. She had no William Voor informed them that prosecuted. The board deals with 
INPIRG
the charges would be dismissed.

knowledge of the ski trip until it violation of state liquor laws by appeared in the Observer, just like The prosecutor have no explanation licensed, estab,.l-is;;;h;;;e_.d;...____.,. for the decision. None of the
those HPC members who com­students had a prior record ofplained in a letter in last Friday's 
Homecooldng
arrests for underage drinking, ac­paper. She doubted if the trip 

by Senora de 


TOWN MEETING 
cording to Pat Bergeson of Notre

would take place since only eight 
1 
:Merritt.
Dame Legal Aid, which served aspeople have signed up. 

· Special Offer 
legal counsel in the case.
She then handed out the in Friday's Ad!
"I was just glad that no one hadsecond semester social calendar 

to go through prosecution," Berge-·~.29;;,;.;;;1;,.·3;;,::1;;::4;::2:...._____...1

and left. Meanwhile, the north quad will 
*****************;****************** The Indiana Public Interest Research Group wm be 
go on as scheduled. One north 
quad president asked the south * *
* * having an organizational meeting to discuss possible 
quad presidents to encourage their 
residents to help the north quad 

i REGAL LANES ~ 

research projeds for this semester. We encourage every­
Collegiate seminar * * 
: is organizing : one to come and let us answer yoW' questions about the

session open 
(continued from page l) 
* * projects and about lnPIRG. 
and values in relation to profes­* * ** 
sions. : a St. Mary's -Notre Dame : 
"The relation of the Values 

Seminar and the Collegiate Semi­nar has been talked about in a casual way in committee meet­ings," Gleason commented, "and the two ought to be considered in the light of each other, but we are not at that point yet," he added. 
"We're really in the process of gathering data now," Roos ex­plained. "We have not come to any conclusions yet." 
"The opening meeting is the first opportunity we've had to have a wide forum," Eidt stated. "It's very important to us to get a good range of viewpoints." 
: "mixed doubles league" this spring. ai We hope to make this a tradition i 
$  for our ND  -SMC friends.  :  
* ** :  for further information  ** ::  
:  CALL 259-5209  :  
*  *  
:  1121 W. 8th St. Mishawaka  :  

.................................... 



TONIGHT 

FEB. 4 9:00 P .M 


LaFORTUNE RATHSKELLER 
*~d.9~~rver
f.. Founded November 3, 1966 
The Observer is published by the students of the University EDITORIAL BOARD of Notre Dilme and St. Milry•s College. It does. not necessarily Teny Keeney Editor-in-Chief reflect the policies of either institution. The news Is reported 
AI Rutherford Managing Editor

r. 
as accurately ilnd objectively as possible. Editorials represent 
Jim Eller Executive Editor 
the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Com­
Pal Hanifin Editorial Editor
mentaries are the views of individual editors. Opinions, 
Bob Mader News Editorcartoons and regular columns express the views of their authors. Column space Is available to all members of the 
Maureen Rynn Ca111Jus Editor community, and leHers are encouraged to promote the free Mary Janca St. Mary's Editor expression of varying opinions on campus. Ken Bradford Copy Editor Val Zurblis Wire Editor Editorials: 283-1715 News: 283-8661 Business: 283-7471 
Tom O'Neil Features Editor Business Manager Tom Modglin Bill Brink Sports Editor Advertising Manager Tom Whelan Dan Sanchez Senior Night Editor 
Wednesday, February 4, 1976 






The Loyal Opposition 
We are sorry to see the resignation of authority (the only authority it has) by Pat Moynihan as Ambassador to the passing absurd and patently unfair resolu­United Nations. Moynihan put a new tions. fighting spirit into the U.S. team at the The U.S. should take its stand as the 
U.N. and has begun to persuade some of chief defender of liberal democracy, he the Third World nations to give up their argues. Even with its admitted faults, anti-American, anti-democratic block vot­Moynihan said, democracy "is on balance ing. We hope. his successors follow comparably the most hopeful set of human through on his policies. relations the world has." He has been 
Realizing that the Western democracies ready and willing to debate the charges are a small minority in the U.N., Moynihan made against the West by authoritarian took a role of blunt but loyal opposition to and totalitarian regimes: ''The American the excesses of the undemocratic majority. ambassador should be feared for the truths 
This did not amount to telling the Third he may tell.'' H the new nations that sit in World and the U.N. to go to hell. The the General Assembly and the old diplo­Third World nations comprise too large a mats that sit in the State Department are share of the world's population and not yet used to blunt language and free resources to be ignored. The U.N. can still debate it is about time they get used to it. be, as John Kennedy said, "the last, best Moynihan has also shown the ability to hope of mankind"; it is too important for persuade other nations to move to more 
America to abandon it to the Communist reasonable, less anti-American, positions. nations and the Third World. It has been this combination of firmness Moynhian has acted on the conviction and flexibility that has enabled him to start 
that America should stand up for itself, its breaking up the block voting among the friends and its beliefs, and that other Third World nations for such proposals as nations should expect it to. He has made the Zionism resolution. it clear that America is willing to help the Pat Moynihan's greatest contribution 
Third World countries with their real has been to show Americans that the world needs but that it will not stand for constant beyond our borders can be improved by 
and unjustified attacks from beggars rational and innovative policies. We hope posing as creditors. He . has made clear that his sort of rationality and innovation is that if the U.N. is to be any hope at all it not as rare among American leaders as his 
will have to quit squandering its moral candor seems to be. 

P.O.BoxQ 
the week's attendance in past fashioned laziness in cancelling,Unfounded years. singlehandedly, last Sunday's James M. Cain 12:15 shuttle. Associate Student All the people who, thanks to
Anxiety 

Union Director your illustrious actions, or lack thereof, were given that once-in-a­Dear Editor: lifetime opportunity to romp throu­

Necktie Party' 
gh a snowstorm while playfully freezing would appreciate this op­The concern voiced by several of Dear Editor: portunity to show their true feeli­the hall presidents over a Student To The Driver Of Sunday Night's ngs to such a pillar of incompetence Union sponsored ski trip this "Phantom 12:15 Shuttle Bus": as yourself. Most people probablyweekend is somewhat unwarran­This is your formal invitation to a did not approve of your unique
ted.· 

necktie party to be held, in your showing of inconsideration and 
The trip itself involves only honor, at midnite at the Notre dereliction of duty, but don't hang forty or fifty students who would Dame Circle the next snowy night your head, there are too many have little 0r no effect on the you are "on duty". The purpose of others who would rather do it for 
success of Mardi Gras this week. this party is to honor your brilliant­you.An event such as Mardi Gras draws ly disgusting show of good old-Ed Murphy from a community of over one 
opinion !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
Getting Out of the Western Rut 
....iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii robert jacques 
Ever since traders and explorers began coming in contact with peoples of cultures other than their own, there has been a flow of knowledge of techniques, styles, and ideas amongst the major civilizations of the world which has been highly influential in directing the routes of local and, more importantly, world history, the latter especially in the past 500 years. 
The effects of such historical exchanges are readily viewed, as an example, in the cultures of the modern West: Classical Greece was a source of science and philosophy; Roman law provided the foundation of European law; Arabia supplied many of the basics for mathematics (including Arabic numerals) and also for science; from 
the eastern Mediterranean came Christianity. Along with numerous other inputs and sources and creations of its own, the result was the rise of the West to world suoremacy. 
Communication, along with such forces as relentless multinational corporations, aggressive anthropologists (often trying to study that which faces extinction and often hastening the demise by their assidousness), and the insatiable desire of the less technologically oriented peoples for the 'easy' life of the West, has accelerated the process started by early European explorers and sailors --the westernization of the world and its resultant homogenization. Some obvious effects of this are visible around the world: huge concrete trade cities; the rise of suburbia; the decline in importance of the rural areas for most people; the rise of passionate nationalism and its often concomitant jingoism; am, · ' lust to be the biggest, the best, number one .. 
That the world is moving towards homogeneity (primarily with a Western flavor) can be easily deter,;~· \y noting the increasing similarities in the arts, life styles, attitua'-:;, and beliefs of nations located on the various continents as they are reported and appear on television and radio and in the papers and periodicals. Representatives from the world's 150 nations find it easier to communicate not only words but also ideas to each other with great understanding. This is due to the increasing elimination of variety, not a greater understanding on the part of the diplomats for exotic cultures. 
r:ven so, the formation of a world community is so far off that predictions of the date of its arrival are nearly meaningless speculation. Yet, the foundation is now being laid--in and upon the people. 
What does all of this mean to you? Consider what happens when a society (here, largely its leaders) is confronted with a hundred alternatives from which it must choose one. Chances are good that, even with superficial study, a good choice will be made of the assorted good picks available. As the number of alternatives decreases a choice is more easily made but there are fewer good options to compare and choose from. When there is only one way and no alternatives, there is no comparison and no choices. 
This loss of choice is a loss of freedom to man. With all of the various ways of living and thinking now known to the world (this knowledge comes from the same processes which will eliminate it eventually, namely, communications and homogenization) to limit consciously the possibilities is to limit the capacity of man himself. Just as no ethereal hand or star-child will stay atomic warfare, so too will no one prevent man trom stepping into a cultural and intellectual box canyon. 
For the answer to the question posed a ways back, here is the solution: A university, such as Notre Dame is, offers its students­you-a chance to view life through various lenses --history, philosophy, anthropology, science, business, art, and so forth. Anyone who looks through these (and not just glances cursorily for an "A-") will find the numerous, nearly unlimited ways that mdn has lived in the past (with emphasis on the West but not exclusively) and how he could live in the future. In other words, you have a chance to take you mind and soul out of the mainstream of the Western people processor (at least for four years) and prevent mental homogenization in the direction, the one direction, the world is taking .. Although it would be nice to argue for the benefits you, as a well versed human, could offer an increasingly closing society (since such a thing is unpopular in the present fashion of selfishness, it won't be mentioned), it is sufficient to point to you alone. 
You have the chance to consider yourself and the 'inalienable' truths which you 'know' are true, to expand your horizons, to become a more intensely spiritual and intellectual person, to further enrich your life so as to make it more colorful and more meaningful. At the same time you will be building a foundation of knowledge upon which society and the world will be able to better make decisions. You will know of the options in a world which is becoming blinded by its own deft hand. 
Of course, the effort reql'ired and the pain encountered will be considerable ... 
And, of course, the more yo'l learn the more ignorant you will become and the more desirous you Nill be for more looks through those lenses ... 
Of course, the choice is yours ... 
hundred thousand while the ski trip caters to a select few who are 

DOONESBURY by Garry Trudeau 
willing to spend the time and money for that sport. 
The Student Union exists to serve the students at Notre Dame. It is impossible to please every student with any one event. For this reason the Student Union offers as broad a range of activities 
as possible. 
With the variety of 
interests that exist at Notre Dame it 
is often difficult to arrange those 
activities so that they will not 
conflict. In the case at hand we felt 
that such an excursion would not 
damage the popularity of an event 
like Mardi Gras. The presidents' 
anxiety seems unfounded in light of Editor's note: Tax Tips will be a weekly feature in the Observer as a service to its readers in filling out their income tax forms. Questions may be sent to the Observer, Tax Tips, Box Q, LaFortune Student Center. The questions and answers by Professors Kenneth Milani and James Wittenbach of Accounting Department will be printed in 





the Observer. 
Ql. I understand that I may be able to claim additional tax credits for some of lmy exemptions this year. For which of them may I claim credits? 
A. Provisions of the Tax Reduction Act of 1975 allow you to reduce your income tax liability by $30 for each person for whom you are entitled to claim a personal dependency deduction. Personal exemptions may be claimed for yourself, your spouse and each dependent. However, you may not claim the additional credits for age and blindness exemptions. The credit is in addition to the $750 deduction allowed for each exemption to which you are entitled. However, your total exemption credit may not exceed your income tax liability. 
The IRS has indicated that based on early returns, many taxpayers are overlooking this credit. The personal exemption credit should be listed on line 13b of the Short Form 1040A, or line 16b of Form 1040. 
Q2. In 1975, I received a $2500 scholarship. My parents paid an additional $1800 for all my other living expenses. Since this $1800 appears to be less than half the money used to support me, will my parents lose the $750 exemption for me on their tax return? 
A. Any scholarship a child, stepchild, foster child or legally adopted child receives for study at an educational institution is not considered in determining his or her total support. Therefore, since the $1800 paid is more than half the total support without the scholarship, your parents may claim you as a dependent. 
Q3. What Is the time and place for free tax assistance on campus? 
A. Notre Dame Tax Asistance Program volunteers will be in the Student Government office from 2-4p.m. every Monday and Wednesday starting Feb. 9 until Apr. 15. 

More than 100 food service directors at several midwestern colleges or universities will attend a regional conference at the Univ­ersity February 18-20. Sponsored by the National Association of College and University Food Ser­vice (NACUFS), the meeting will look ahead to "The Next 200 Years", the theme of six regional 
Letter carriers call for cost rollback 
WASHINGTON (AP) -A group representing 50,000 letter carriers called Tuesday for a rollback in the cost of mailing a letter from 13 to 8 cents. 
Vincent R. Sombrotto, head of a New York City letter carriers, told a press conference that rolling back mail rates would result in the return of some postal patrons who have deserted the Postal Service for other means of communication. 
He spoke for the Ad Hoc Committee of the National Associa­tion of Letter Carriers. The commit­tee also includes union leaders in Chicago, Boston, Philadelphia, Los Angeles, Cleveland, Miami, Minn­eapolis, and Des Moines, Iowa. No national officers of the 200,000-per­son union were present at the press conference. 
Sombrotto urged that Congress vote additional subsidies to finance the rollback in postal rates. 
The extra subsidy "would not run more than $3.5 billion or $4 billion per year," he said. 
The Postal Service is now subsid­Ized by taxpayers at the rate of $1.5 billion per year. 
Wednesday, February 4, 1976 the observer 
Dining hall food nutritious 
by Chris Hopkins Staff Reporter 
Phyllis Roose, dietician of the South Dining Hall, plays a major role in the daily nutrition of a large number of University members:.... 
Roose employs the "4 Group Plan; Guide to Good Eating", when developing the daily menu at the South Dining Hall to insure a well-balanced diet. This "4 Group Plan" includes the four basic food groups; milk, meat, vegetable, and cereal and breads group. 
The daily milk group serving balanced diet. 

The final food group, breads and cereals, should include four or more servings of enriched or whole grain and adding milk to this group will improve its nutritious value. 
The "4 Group Plan" gives the needed protein, calcium, iron and vitamins A,B,C, and D. Taken by itself the "4 Group Plan" provides a minimum of 1,200 calories. 
Roose said, "We provide all elements of the 'four group plan' and more at the South Dining Hall." She added, "We always have the '4 Group Plan' and with it we are able to accommodate many levels of need." 
The "4 Group Plan" does not insure the Recommended Dietary Allowances. For example, the 
R.D.A. for a 19-22 year old male is 3,000 calories and the "4 Group Plan" falls 1,800 calories short of the R.D.A. level. The dining halls offer many other foods to allow students to raise their calorie consumption up to the recommen­ded level. 
Many students are falling short of achieving a well-balanced daily diet for reasons of their own. Roose said, "many students miss break­fast and people always do not choose the right foods that we offer for a balanced diet." 
Roose concluded, ''There is cur­rently more interest in nutrition than before and this seems to be a keener interest than in the past.'' 
This is MY kind of place! [Photo by Paul Clevenger] 
should include two or more glasses of milk. Cheese, ice cream and other milk foods can supply a portion of this daily requirement. 
The meat group should include two or more daily servings of meat, fish, poultry, eggs or cheese. 
Four or more servings of a dark green or yellow vegetables with citrus, tomatoes or potatoes as alternatives should be included in the daily vegetable group. The dark green vegetable provides needed Vitamin A. The citrus fruit wit provide the Vitamin C needed in a 



I 
~ir Richard's 
BARBER STYLING 
UNISEX HAIR STYLING 
-

6~_-=.t.:....:h-=e~o=b-=s-=e...:....r...:....v..:::e.:....r_ __,_.w_ed_n_es_da__.:.y..:....,_Fe_b_ru_ary-'---4,_,1_9_76 Ahead of last year 
Mock market going strong 
By Don Reimer prize of $25. used in actual stock transactions. 
Senior Staff Reporter For a cost of $1 a student may At the end of each day's session purchase $10,000 in play-money all the transaction forms are fed Mock Stock Market co-chairmen with which to buy stocks. The into a computer which sorts them Neil Viii and Ted Ursu are pleased student then proceeds to make and prints out a list of the status of 
with student participation in the transactions using the money at the each account. 
market up to this point and table in the lobby of the Hurley Buying on margin is not allowed, 
encourage all interested students Business Building. The market is as participants may purchase 
to participate. open from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. stocks only at face value. Stocks 
Viii noted that on the first day of Monday through Friday. are limited to common and no the market 126 accounts were Ursu explained that participants trading will be permitted in prefer­opened and 75 more were opened may buy and sell any amount of red stocks or warrants. on the second day of trading. This stocks that they wish. When a Stocks may, however, be bought pace, he said, is ahead of last participant approaches the desk to long or sold short at any time year's. buy or sell stocks, brokers working during the session. The process of 
"We want more non-business there call a room in the Hayes­selling a stock short, according to 
people and graduate students to Healy Building which. contains a Ursu involves selling a stock to an get in on it," Ursu said. Prize telequote machine, to get the real imaginary buyer at one price in money for the participants whose up-to-th~-minute prices. A transac­anticipation of a drop in the price accounts increase most in value tion form is then filled out and the and later buying the stock back at over the four-week trading period transaction completed. These the reduced prtce. The profit in this includes a first prize of $100, a forms were obtained from a South case is the difference in the two second prize of $50 and a third Bend broker and are the forms prices. 
A mock brokerage commissiOn will be charged on all purchases and sales, in order to simulate actual market trade. The commis­

Coleman to reveal Concorde decision 
sion rates, which match those actually used by brokerage firms, 
WASHINGTON (AP) --Trans­a speeding bullet. opinions on several legal questions noisy as the loudest subsonic jet is have the effect of making the portation Secretary William T. The issue before Coleman is earlier this month after concluding use when taking off. Some commission on a lower priced stock Coleman, Jr., will announce Wed­whether he should allow Air France a one-day public hearing on the scientists also are worried that the higher than that of a higher-priced nesday whether the controversial and British Airways to use the Concorde. high-flying plane could damage the one. Concorde supersonic passenger Concorde on four daily flights from He specifically was earth's protective ozone layer by plane can be used on scheduled Europe to New York's John F. interested in whether current trea­spewing its exhaust into the strato­Mime theater flights between Europe and two Kennedy Airport and on two daily ty obligations prevented him from sphere. 
U.S. airports. trans-Atlantic flights to Washing­making any adverse decision or if Since the ozone layer performs at SMCthey kept him from considering protects the earth from the potenti­
ton's Dulles International Airport.

The closely guarded decision will The Claude Kipnis Mime Theat­
such issues as the energy efficien­ally skin cancer-causing ultraviolet
be announced at 1:15 p.m. EST. Although the Concorde dispute re comes to Michiana for a three­
cy, economic viability and envi­rays, any decrease in the ozone
Special couriers also will deliver has been viewed as a confrontation day tri-sponsored residency at St.
ronmental impact of the plane. layer could result in an increase in
copies of the decision to the between technological progress Mary's College, the University of
skin cancer cases. 
governments of Britain and France environmental issues, Coleman's The Concorde is a 1,400 m.p.h. Notre Dame and Indiana University
Opponents of the delta-winged
at that time, a department spokes­decision is also likely to be influ­passenger plane that can cross the at South Bend.
plane also have expressed concern
man said. Those two countries are enced by treaty obligations of the Atlantic in half the time of a The troupe, which has toured
about the plane's fuel reserve and
the joint builders of the futuristic United States. conventional subsonic jet. How­extensively in both Europe and the 
as whether it will need any special air
plane, which can travel faster than The secretary asked for written ever, the plane so!lnds twice United States, kicks off its stay with
traffic control measures to land an 8:00p.m. performance Wedne­safely.$ 
sday, February 11, at Saint Mary's Proponents of the plane agree O'Laughlin Auditorium. The show the Concorde is noisy but say its is open to the public with general
Big-busted women do get around 
noise will have only a small impact admission tick£ts costing $3.50 for 
on the total noise level of the two general admission, and $2.00 for SEATILE (AP) -The size of a The experiment was among sev­airports. They question whether student admission. Tickets can be 1man's bust is an important eral designed to study the effect of the plane will have any effect on obtained by calling the Saint Mar­~tor in whether she get'i rides body language on human relation­the ozone layer, noting that milita­y's Programming Office at 284­1ile hitch-hiking, a University of ships. Dr. Lockard said there will ry jets have been flying at even 4176. ashington reseacher says. be an effort to match the bustline higher altitudes than the Concorde Thursday, the troupe will lead 
experiment by having male studen­for years and yet the ozone layer the ND-SMC Theatre in mimeDr. Joan Lockard, a professor of ts test whether exposing more has been increasing instead of technique class on the Notre DameJeurological surgery and psycholo­chest hair brings a better response. decreasing. campus.
·y, says experiments she conduct­! last year showed women doubl­
.j the number of rides they 1tained by using padding. to ,crease their bustline by two women received rides from about tches. one in 10 passing male motorists. 
With the extra two inches they got When not wearing padding, the rides from one in five. 
t 
I 
'Tearafter vear. I I semester·after 
Tom McMahon 
semester. the 
General Agent 
('ollegeMaster 
from Fidelity
-,~\jooit'~; ,~· .... ,, Union Ijfe has
_ 
heen the most 
acn•ptl'<l. most 
;:r;:;'.. ··~ 
popular plan on
···~·· p 
cmnpuses all 
Manny Avila 
OH'r America. 
Agent 
Find out win . 
('all the 
Fidclih' Union
... .. t~ 
Collt•gcMastt·r ' ~'icld Associate 
Karen Wentland 
m your area: 
Agent 
1005 E. LaSalle South Bend. Ind. Phone 287-2327 
~1 .~~~ .,. .•
··~·· 

• ( ()lk_·~~,\~bstcr
c
....f..,. 4C"' 
Diane Long Agent 




~------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Wednesday, February 4, 1976 the observer 7_ 


NBA, player's union settle conflicts 
PHILADELPHIA (AP) -In what the NBA to merge ·with the settle a major suit out of court, has NBA Commissioner Larry O'Bri­Governors, at a meeting lat• c could be a landmark development, struggling American Basketball the effect of guaranteeing any en said agreement was reached ina Tuesday, unanimously adopted the National Basketball Association Association. ABA sources said rookie that he will not be bound 24-hour negotiating session that resolution opposed to merger wi and its players' union settled their such talks have already been held, with the team he signs with for started Sunday and wound up any other basketball league. 
differences Tuesday over the con­but the NBA adopted a resolution more than two years. In addition, Monday morning. troversial option clause, the college Tuesday saying it planned no effective with the 1976-77 season, "Representatives of the NB 
Both Fleisher and Paul Silas, have been instructed to take 1
draft and key compensation issues. merger with anybody. any veteran becomes a free agent Boston Celtics player and president action or make any statemenThe agreement opens the way for The agreement, designed to once his contract expires. 
of the Players Association, said all inconsistent with this policy," 0'1 However, players are forbidden restraints had been removed from a rien said. to jump teams if their original team possible merger between the NBA
GM to stop Caddy convertible 
matches any offer they get from and ABA. ABA sources pointed out that tl: another club. NBA resolution, while it does n•
Sources said O'Brien met last

Another feature of the agreeme­promote merger, was careful!

production in two months 
week with John Y. Brown, preside­

nt is that any club losing a player worded and did not absolutely rul• · 
nt of the ABA, to discuss merger. 

it out. ·receives no compensation.
DETROIT (AP) -The Cadillac when dealers were offering anyth­They said the NBA wanted ABA convertible goes out of production ing to get a car," says a spokesman "What we have done is arrive at clubs in Kentucky, Indiana, Denver O'Brien said that the NBA witl 
a workable, equitable system of and New York, did not want the its 18 teams "is a most viable entit\ 
within a couple of months -at General Motors' Cadillac Divis­marking the end of the American ion. player-management relations for ABA club in Virginia, and might be and is moving forward. Once w~ 
soft top -and the last-minute "We're no longer taking any pro basketball," said Larry Fleish­interested in the St. Louis and San get this court case finally settled we er, general counsel for the Players Antonio teams. can intensify our efforts internal­
scramble is already under way by more orders, and I hear dealers are dealers and customers looking for a returning deposits to customers,'' Association. However, the NBA Board of ly ... " piece of history. says the spokesman, adding that he 
A cadillac dealership outside is driving a 1976 Eldorado convert­Chicago says it's willing to pay ible this year. 
Summer Olympics not in jeopardy
$2,000 above factory cost to get its Cadillac, the last of the U.S. auto hands on a 1976 Eldorado converti­makers to offer a rag-top, announc­
INNSBRUCK, Austria (AP) -swimming were outlined by Rous­ium to the point of being useable. tble. An auto dealer north of Miami ed last fall that it would build only Montreal officials angrily denied seau and Dr. Victor Goldbloom, the will fall far short of the grandio: .!
says the car is a better investment 14,000 convertibles during the .Monday that they had bungled Quebec provincial minister re­plans drawn up by French archite tthan the stock market. model year, which normally ends in plans for the Summer Olympics sponsible for Olympic construction. Roger Taillibert. 
"I've never seen anything like the summer. 

this since the end of World War II But the demand has been so and declared the games wi11 start They said it would be possible to Fredrick Hodler, secretary of tl ~ great -sales are running better as scheduled July 17. build an open-air pool quickly at International Track and Field Fe than double the 1975 p<ce-that the But for the first time in the the Claude Robillard Center, about eration, and Dr. Harold Hennii
Candidates give 

division expects the last one to roll troubled history of Montreal's at­two miles north of the main president of the lnternatiOJ .I off the assembly line by late March tempts to ready facilities for the stadium complex. Use of the pool at Swimming Federation, were pr

views on abortion 

, or early April. Some 9,500 were Games, officials detailed conting­Montreal University also had been ent and said they were satisf1 (continued from page l) built through January. ency plans in case construction discussed, Goldbloom added. with the reports. 
Sen. Birch Bayh, D-lnd., and The convertible carries a list plans at Olympic Park, scene of However, he guaranteed the The Canadians found t' Gov. Milton Shapp, D-Pa., have price of $11,000, but usually sells track and field and swimming Olympic pool would be ready. strongest ally in Pedro Ram both said they personally oppose for between $12,000 and $13,000 events, went awry. Vasquez, who designed the s
Lord Killanin, president of the

abortion but suport the Supreme when options are added. Industry ium for the 1968 Olympic~
The word "bungling" was used International Olympic CommitteeCourt decision and oppose amendi­analysts estimate the price includes Mexico City and now is a me11by newsmen at said: are talking

ng the Constitution. about a $2,800 profit for the dealer. two Canadian a IOC, "We not of the IOC. Vasquez told thepress conference during questions about contingency plans so muchSen. Lloyd Bentsen, D-Tex., has Cadillac limited production to Mexico's stadium was behind l\
said he supports the Supreme 14,000 because that's all the conve-about the incomplete stadium, as catastrophe plans. Barring some treal's in building progress atCourt decision but still believes , rtible tops the company could get. where thousands of temporary major cataclysm, the Games will stage.
"the rights of those medical perso­"The last soft-top maker has gone seats will be installed and athletes' open in July in all the sports. There At the news conference about nnel and hospital administrators out of business and destroyed the dressing rooms will be makeshift. is no question of moving the Games swimming pool, Vasquez said:
who have objections to abortion as tooling," the Cadillac spokesman or any of the sports away from
Roger Rousseau, commissioner Mexico, the technology was m
a matter of conscience must also be said. "If we could get more tops, Montreal."
general of the Games, raised his more primitive. I am absoluobserved." He has said he opposes we'd build more cars." 
voice in anger and said: "I object Rousseau, Goldbloom and other convinced as a professional

an amendment. Consumer demand for the Amer­very strongly to the suggestion that officials spent five hours with the given the modern technology, t1
Rep. Morris Udall, D-Ariz., and ican convertible, once the fashion former Sen. Fred Harris, D-Okla., rage among car buyers, eroded Montreal has bungled this job. IOC. They promised the Games is ample time to finish the S'-' 
There are 19 sites that are ready would go on, with athletes using

both have voiced support for the during the past decade. Industry ming pool in Montreal." 
Supreme Court ruling and opposit­officials say it was doomed by now. If that is bungling, I would pre-fabricated buildings as dress­The Canadians told the IOC ion to any amendment. air-conditioning, rising damage like to know what is bungling. ing rooms. the stadium will accommo1 
Jimmy Carter has taken the most and theft, air and noise pollution Bungling is the wrong word to Only the track and field and 72,000 as planned but would typical stance among Democratic and the discomfort of high-speed use.'' swimming have been in doubt as estimate how many seats wou]( aspirants. He says he is opposed to freewa drivin with the to down. Details of contingency plans for Montreal struggles to get its stad-temporary. abortion but does not favor a constitutional amendment banning it. 


Classified Ads
Carter said he favored governm­
WANTED 
ental assistance toward pregnancy 

Desperately need 5 Marquette tix. Call I need GA and student tickets for BOOK STORE Old Books and Prints. PERSONALS 
prevention, including education 

Eileen 6798. Marquette. Give me a break. Please call Hours Wednesday, Saturday, Sunday 9-7 
and birth control assistance. 
Pat 1654 or cttance. Ralph Casperson 1303 Plrt, 

I am sick at heart because I do not have 4 Bucttanan Road, Niles. See ~u at the prayer meeting 
Marquette Tix. Call M.ary 6680 NEED 2 Marquette Student fix. AI Rathskeller at 7:30 lonight. 3388,1715 Will do typing Experienced. Term 
Management Trainee to $14,000 Ready papers, manusCTipts, etc. Call 233-8512. Jeff, 
for a new career? We are interviewing Need Riders FROM Milwaukee, will Happy 21stI Now ~u can not only dro for a management training program that leave Sunday at 4 pm Call AI 1715,3388 IBM Selectric II typing. ManuSCTipts, legally in Indiana, but ~u can also 001 
will allow ~u to earn $25,000 or rrore in 5 Dissertation Experienced. 289-5193. to "Wedge Grove" and party! 
years IM1 ile representing our top team of Wanted: Ride to Indianapolis or Terre Tess 
financial specialists in Equities, Insur­Haute this weekend. Will share gas and Monissey Loan $20-1 so. 1 day wait. ance, Mortgages and Tax Shelters. Send driving. Call Tom at 3341. percent int. LaFortune, M-F,11 :15-12:15 Mod< Stock Mar1<et •• Feb. 2 lhrv Feb. 
Old Business Bldg., 10 am-3 pm M~ur resume to: Charles M. Newbanks 
120 W. LaSalle Suite 906 South Bend, In APPLICATANTS OVER 21 for part-time Accurate, fast typing. Mrs. Donoho lhrv Fri. Win $100,$50,$25. Sponso, 
46601 derking etc. Apply 11 :00-6:00 p.m. 232-07046. by NO Finance Club. 
party shoppes of south bend office 913 Wanted: Volunteers for the Millon 
Clover St. Will Pay big rroney for Marquette tickets Shapp for President Conm. If interested: 
call Mike 8720 Lonely in Angers Call Tom at 288-088 
Need ride to Penn State Weekend of Feb. SUMDEF is no FUNDEF CTaving rr 
FOR RENT oorrpanionship Jennifer Collins&Gise Wanted: Ride to Toledo this weekend. Available for Sept. Too to seven 
Urruti. SUNDEF, B.P. 858 49G
LOST AND FOUND

Cal Peggy, 6661 bedroom houses, CXlf1'1Jietely furnished. 
Angers Cedex, France. Lost Last Week: Dark grey stocking cap Call Mrs. Hurrbarger. 234-9364 

Parents need 2 GA Marquette tickets. Reward call 284-4342 FOR SALE 
Please! 
'74 Javelin AMX 21,000 miles all options. 
Call 3654 

Whoever "lifted" my backpad< at r
Call Da1M1 272-3236

~9~!£~A3 
PUrple Midi Coat. Lost at Mardi Gras 

party at least return the notes! Teny ( 
~--------------~1 

Desperately Need Marquette Tickets. R'iday. Reward, no questions asked. 
289-8063 For Sale: COlomite ski boots, size 9.

Call Sheila, 8135. Call Marianne 8060. 
I Latest model with all the fully 1 
Used one season. Call 1924.
automatic features that make 1

I 
MPO, 
Ride needed to Peoria or Quincy Ill., area Lost: Women's silver Timex Watctt on
it the ideal camera for action I 

Thanks for the ~~~~eekend. Hope ~u g.
For Sale: ND Letter Jacket, ctteap. Call 

•
Feb. 5 or 6. Call Karen 6752. Sunday, Call Jan 7920.
photography. I 

some "rest With eyes dosed." And r1922
I ONLY I 

matter \Mlal ~u say, next time l'1 Wanted: 2 Marquette tickets Call Jim 
Lost: Black wallet With I. D cards.
I With 50mm fI 1.7 $199 95 I 
walking! k.c.
For Sale: Uniwx electircal Guitar. Nice17~7 278 Dillon
Konlca lens / • I 
Reward. Call 1609. 

1 
sound and in good action. Call Bob at
wcase 

Need hM:l Marquette Tickets M.ary 4-5445 Only 11M> rrore days to talk to PEAC·1487
IEXTRA SAVINGS ON KONICA I 

CORPS-VISTArea-uiters. Flndout if~ 
NOTICES

Ned 1 Davidson and W. BA. ticket. Call
IAUTOMATIC 2-LENS SYSTEM 

skill can be matctted to an O\II!I"Sei'
For Sale: Kawasaki G-5 lOOcc. 8<cellenlKevin 283-1724 

Student Government T-shirt Agency •• wlunteer position. Talk to recruiter
(])lldition. Good foroomruitirig. 120plus top quality plus low prices on rustom today in the Ubrary Main ConCO\Jrse.
flllQ. Call 1688.

Desperately need a ride to Chicago this
I Cavalier Camera Jl 

made T-shirts, call David Bossy 277-0948 ~~~~eekend. Can lea've anytime after R'iday 
Ideal for donnitories and dubs. Tam Rim Restaurante-Soottsdale Mall
I U.S.31 ATBellRd. 
SKIS; 195 em. Hart Free Styles. Uke 

noon. Call Jim at 3593 or 3610. 
crop in on Senor and Senora MerrittInew, used twice. Leave name with CM~ 

-
L 
Niles, Mi. 684-2640 
Smith at Observer if interested. 



~~----------­
-------------------~---~------~­
the observer Wednesday, February 4, 1976 



Irish hoping to rebound at LaSalle 
by Ernie Torriero this college bonanza doubleheader. South Carolina and Villanova Notre Dame's roller coaster ride 
square off in the second game. toward the NCAA playoffs contin­''A doubleheader like this before ues tonight as the Irish Hoopsters 
a big crowd is just great for college make their yearly visit to Philadel­
basketball," Phelps continues. phia to face the revamped LaSalle 
"College basketball is rapidly tak­Explorers. Game time is 7:15. ing over as America's favorite Saturday's setback to Maryland 
winter pasttime." proved an unwanted detour in For many of the inhabitants of Phelps' carefuly laid plans to reach 
this city offraternal amore, nothing post-season competition. But just 
would help liven up America's to make sure the Irish get back on 
newly found pasttime than a victory the right path, a brief look at 
over Notre Dame. For the 9-10 Explorers an upset of the Irish
Philadelphia, the scene of this would definitely make their season.
_vear's NCAA finals may be just the 
"LaSalle is a very good basket­
right stimulant. "Our goal all year," Phelps 
ball team," offered ND assistant coach Frank McLaughlin. "They
explains, "is to first get into the NCAA Tournament and then reach 
lost two great players (Joe Bryant and Bill Taylor) to graduation. For
the final four. Playing great teams like UCLA, DePaul and Maryland 
a rebuilding year they are doing rather well." 
in the same week is the best Indeed the departure of Taylorpossible experienace for reaching and Bryant from last year's 22-7those goals." 
squad, a team which dropped an
Playing LaSalle before a jammed house in the oblonged-shaped Spe­
overtime decision to Syracuse in NCAA first round action, left the
ctrum also has to be a plus for Bruce Flowers and the rest of the Irish will be in Philadelphia tonight to face the LaSalle
Explorers with little frontcourt Explorers.
Phelps and crew. A solid sellout of 
nearly 18,000 is expected to see experience. Bryant was the Collier, wnose basketball educa­Conference, Arizin sat out a year our team," said McLaughlin. "It's team's leading rebounder and tion came in the tough Catholic after defecting from William & a chance for us to see how good we point-getter (21.9 ppg. and 11.4 High School league in Philly, is are after coming off a tough loss to
Mary.

A~ cage poll rpg.). Taylor was a close second in known primarily for his defense. Maryland. Tough road games
The LaSalle encounter will mark

1. 
Indiana 18-0 1,218 the scoring column with 19.3 ppg. Collier is scoring almost 13 points a usually bring out the best in us." 

the first time in four games, the


2. 
Marquette 16-1 1,000 Yet while the Lord taketh away game. Tonight's game can be heard 

12-4 Irish have been on the road.


3. 
Nev-Las Vegas 23-0 878 he also giveth. For a team in Junior Donn Wilbur, a starter at over the facilities of WNDU and 

4. 
North Carolina 15-2 839 transition, LaSalle is blessed with the center slot last season, returns Notre Dame begins another four­WSBT with air time set for 7:00 

5. 
Maryland 15-3 693 one of the finest backcourt tandems to the pivotman spot to become the game homestand with Davidson p.m. A tape-delay of the game can 

6. 
Washington 17-1 626 in the country where seniors Char­leading scorer and rebounder in the first in on Saturday. be seen on Chicago's WGN-TV, 

7. 
Rutgers 16-0 593 lie Wise and Glenn Collier spark Big Five. His 18 points and ten "This game is a real big test for channel nine, at 8:00 p.m. EST. 

8. 
Tennessee 16-2 494 the Explorer attack. rebounds per game also top the 

9. 
UCLA 15-3 321 The 6'0" Wise is regarded as the Explorer list in both categories. 


Tracksters looking to regroup
10. 
N. Carolina St. 14-3 315 quickest guard in Philadelphia's "There is no question we must 

11. 
Notre Dame 12-4 216 Big Five Converence. The Cape stop Wilbur from having a big 

12. 
St. John's 15-2 179 May, N.J. mative is scoring just game,'' MacLaughlin emphasizes. 



this weekend atMSU relays 

13. 
Missouri 17-2 171 over 15 points a game. But it is "We can control the game if we 

14. 
Alabama 13-3 169 Wise's steals and assists which stop Wilbur." Hoping to regroup after a disap­first meet. The probable return of 

15. 
Princeton 12-3 60 trigger Explorer fast breaks and Forward Mike Arizin, son of pointing showing at Ann Arbor this Jim Hurt and Jim Reinhart should 

16. 
Cincinnati 15-3 55 cause opposing coaches like St. former Villanova and NBA great past weekend, the Notre Dame provide the Irish with the depth in 

17. 
W. Michigan 16-0 39 Joe's Hary Booth to marvel, "Cha­Paul Arizin, is close to Wise in the tracksters journey to East Lansing , long distance runners needed to 

18. 
Centenary 18-3 34 rlie is the one player who is capable scoring column, pumping in just Saturday as participants in the make a good showing. Pole vaulter 

19. 
Virginia Tech 15-3 32 of taking control of a game either under 15 points a contest. A Michigan State Relays. The flu Mike Hogan has shwon consistent 

20. 
N. Texas St. 16-2 offensively or defensively.'' · former superstar in the Southern bug and assorted minor injuries progress this year while sophomore have beset the Irish in recent weeks 


hurdler Chuck Wills has put forcing several top performers out together a pair of superb pertor­of action. A field of close to 30 
mances in the first two meets. teams is expected for Saturday's 
Other key performers in Notre


Irish wrestlers lose fourth in row 
Dame's bid for success will indue 12':30 P.M. 
meet which is slated to begin at miler Joe Yates, shotputter Mike The Notre Dame wrestling team 

flu. Left at home in South Bend Meyer, distance runner Jay Miran­
with the flu, did get fine perfor­Numerous Big Ten and Big Eight 
travelled to the University of were Pat McKillen, Dave Boyer, da and sorinter Ron Cullins.
mances from Pat McKillen (150) schools will also be in attendance 


Unbeaten fencing team at Tri-Stater"NOtiE.DAME••WED~FfB.•iBtr·: 
, . . . • Athletic and thru • N.otre Dame s fencm~ team wtll commg off one of the most success-last year's number one and two Convocation 
suN FEB 2 2 d • 
aga~n be on the road thts w~ekend f~l weeks in Notre Dame's fencing teams, Wayne State, 19-8 and NYU : Center n e as tt travels to ~earby Tn~State htstory. They have upped their 15-12. With the victories over • • e <:;ollege t? face Tn-State, Wtscon-record to 10-0 after winning eight Wayne State and NYU the Irish : + WED. NIGHT SHOW e sm Parkstde and Way~e State. The matches during the past seven placed themselves at the top of the • e qua?rangular meet ts . slated to days. national scene in fencing. At the • ABicentennial Celebration Special • begm on. Saturday mornmg. Coach Mike DeCicco's team same time they also beat Tri-• (ALL TICKETS HALF PRICE) • The Insh fencers are presently started the week off be defeating State College, 24-3, and Baruch e PRICES: e 
~ .:~ ~~ College. 23-14. • '3.00 '4.50 '5.50 • 
-l In iction over this past weekend • 8 PERFORMANCES e the undefeated fencers captured • ll1 St1ts Rmntd tWED. 8 P.M. •
our resounding victories. During • ND-SMC students on THURS. 8:00 P.M. • these four matches the Irish sword-• These R!rfonnances: FRI. 8:00 P.M. • smen lost only six bouts while • WED. 8:00p.m SAT. 12:00 · 4:00 · 8:00 • winning 102. Notre Dame trium-• THURS. 8:00p.m SUN. 2:00 and 6:00P.M. e phed over Winnipeg, 25-2, St. • SAT. 12:00 noon •
SUN. 6:00p.m •

Thomas College, 27-0, Minnesota, • SHOWS ONLY 25-2 and MATC, 25-2. • Tickets on sole: • Pacing Notre Dame so far have • NOTRE DAME A.C.C. e been freshman Mike Sullivan and BOX OFFICE junior captain Tim Glass. Sullivan : MON.-SAT. 9 to 5 : is currently undefeated and won an ROBERTSON'S e
• South Bend and Concord Moll

impressive bout by defeating de­
• ST. JOE BANK •

fending NCAA sabre champion 1 and b<ancoes • Yuri Rabinovich, 5-l. Glass, an t ELKHART TRUTH e Olympic contender, downed Swe­
t FIRST BANK e 

-• 
dish Olympic squad member Hans Weiselgren by a margin of 5-3. Notre Dame will remain on the 
road for the next two weeks and 
will not return home until February • The unbeaten NO fencers face a rematch with Wayne State in a 28 when they will face Big Ten • quadrangular meet at Tri-State College this weekend. opponents, Illinois and Wisconsin. 
• 

Wisconsin-Whitewater this after­John Dowd and Bob Golic, all of 
and John Dowd (167). McKillen offering an array of powerful
noon, where they were defeated by whom hope to be ready for the 
and Dowd were both 2-1 on the competition. Wisconsin's world
the Warhawks, 41-3. Wisconsin­
National Catholic Championships 
day, posting decisions for those record holding sprint relay team
Whitewater, unbeaten n their· se­
at John Carroll University this 
victories. returns as a complete unit along
ven dual meets this season and in Saturday. 
Saturday the Irish squad will with an excellent middle distance

• their last 21 dual meets over three 
The Notre Dame wrestling team 
travel to Cleveland, more &pecifi­runner in Mark Sang and pole­
seasons, registered four pins en­
took it on the chin this past 
cally to John Carrol University, to vaulter Kim Scott. All-American
route to triumph. 
weekend, dropping all three 
participate in the National Catholic Herb Lindsay of Michigan State
The Irish of Coach Ray Sepeta 
matches in a four-way event at 
Tournament. Notre Dame will be will be running distance events in
got their only points by virtue of 
home. The Irish were defeated by 
looking for outstanding perfor­this weekend's meet while Harlan
Steve Miller's victory at 118. The Edinboro State, 30-9, Nebraska­
mances from McKillen, Boyer, Huckleby of Michigan, a standout
freshman decisioned his opponent Omaha 28-11, and by Wis­
Dowd, Dreger and Golic. McKillen sprinter, will also be competing. 
by a 6-2 margin. The Irish were consin Parksid-e, 40-6. The Irish, 
sports a 9-3-1 record going into this Notre Dame's outstanding
lacking four of their front-line 
who missed Rob Dreger at 177 and 
week, Boyer is 3-2, Dowd, 7-7, freshman Steve Welch finished
starters courtesy of injuries and th~ 
Bob Golic at heavyweight, both out 
Dreger 10-4 and Golic is unbeaten. fifth at Michiga11 hst week in his 
ARCHITECTURAL & MODEL SUPPLIES STRUCTURAL SHAPES BALSA WOOD 
~Jj 
HOBBY SHOP IIC. 713 NORTH MAIN ST. 
MISHAWAKA, IND. 46544
PHONE 255·~111 






