
Vol. X, No. 79 
City office may forbid showing of unsafe films 
by Peter O'Brien Staff Reporter 
The Occupation, Safety and Health Administration branch office in South Bend has threat­ened to stop all showings of films in the Engineering Audi­torium according to Kathy Mal­kus, film co-ordinator for the Student Union Services Com­mission. This action will be taken unless the health and fire hazards which exist during the showings are eliminated. 
One of the only continuous social activities on the campus could end within the week, she said. 
''The Administration has the federal power to stop any activ­ity which threatens the life of any student," Malkus explained. 
In a recent letter to the University, the Administration stated their complaints, center­ing around "the smoking, litter­ing with beer cans and other disorders resulting from the lack of proper monitoring during the evening showings." 
Asks for consideration 
It is really not asking anything out of the ordinary, only that the students be considerate of other people during the film's show­ing, Malkus said. "All we want is the people to use common sense and decency," she added. 
Monitoring the students may be the answer, but the Adminis­tration may not offer that op­tion, and they cannot be blamed, Malkus stated. 
Malkus pointed out the Serv­ices Commission, which re­ceives 80 per cent of its revenue 
(continued on page 4) 

Vote by Faculty Senate 
Appointments policy to be reviewed 
by Bob Brink Staff Reporter 
The Faculty Senate voted last night to resubmit to its Committee on Administration of the University for further consideration a proposal that would revise the current procedure for appointments of principal academic officers. 
Under the current appointment procedure, only department chair­men are appointed for specified terms. All other principal officers are appointed for indefinite terms, but are subject to review every 

five Senate subcommittee, said the GUATEMALA CITY,Guatemala AP--A tremendous earthquake jolt­ed a 2000 mile strip from Central America into Mexico before dawn Wednesday with the brunt of its force shattering Guatemala City. Wails crashed onto sleeping inhab­itants and one report said as many as 2,000 persons were killed. 
Col. Manuel Angel Ponce, the chief of staff said the figure of 2,000 dead is "conservative." He added that "alarming reports" were coming in from the interior of the country 15 hours after the .earthquake struck at 3:04a.m. local time and sent hundreds of thou­sands of Guatemala's 1.5 million pouring in panic into the streeets in pre-dawn darkness. 
Col. Ponce said the death toll in this capital was estimated at more 
Calendar dates announced 
by Pat Cuneo Senior Staff Reporter 
Dean of Administration LeoCor­baci announced yesterday the se­lection of Sept. 11 as the Saturday class day providing for a 70-day academic calendar for the fall semester. 
The Saturday class day substi­tutes for the Friday after Thanks­giving, thus allowing students a four-day Thanksgiving break. The Friday sequence of classes will be transferred to Saturday. 
The 70-day calendar begins Aug. 31 with the mid-semester break scheduled for Oct. 16 through 24 and Thanksgiving break for Nov. 25 through 28. 
The last class day will be Dec. 14 with finals ending Dec. 21. 
Corbaci explained Sept. I I was selected as the Saturday class day because it did not conflict with any athletic events, especially football games. 
When Saturday classes were employed in past years, they were scheduled at the end of the semester. "It was more or less a toss-up, but we figured an earlier date would be better," Corbaci said. 
Corbaci and officials of St. Mary's College collaborated on the final draft of the fall calendar and said the spring session remains unchanged. 
No future Saturday classes 
"Saturday class days in future schedules will most likely not be necessary," Corbaci stated. 
Mike Gassman, academic com­missioner, was satisfied with the calendar on a whole. 
"For the first time, the students got the schedule they wanted. We now have two breaks and we start as late as possible and end as early as possible," he stated. 
Gassman added, ''Due to the calendar itself, the Saturday class 
These officers include the pro­change is necessary "because no­vost, the vice-president for advanc­body is exactly sure what the ed studies, the deans of colleges, review process is." According to the dean of the Law School, the Ross, the reappointment procedure dean of the Freshman Year of would open up the review process Studies and the director of Univer­and make it easier to replace sity libraries. deans. 
The Senate Committee on Ad­However, Senate members could ministration of the University pro­not agree on the exact wording of posed that appointments of these the proposal. officials should be for specified terms. They also recommended 

Thousands killed
that the process of periodic review be replaced by a process of 

, reappointment. 


Powerful earthquake shakes Guatemala
Alberta Ross, chairperson of the 

day couldn't be avoided without 
going 70 days." 
Gassman believes the calendar 
incident was one of the first times 
the students became concerned 
with an administrative policy and 
their views were heard as they 
brought about a change in the 
calendar. 

"The students wanted a calendar with two breaks, they were prop­erly informed of what was going on ·and they were consistent with the calendar they wanted," Gassman 
noted. 
He continued, "The administra­tion almost had to change the calendar to provide for a Thanks­giving break." 

The question still remains whe­ther students will go to class on a Saturday. DEAN LEO CORBACI (Photo by Tony Chifari) 

Visitors blamed for Fisher theft 
by Frank Tennant Staff Reporter 

The Fisher Hall burglars were not Notre Dame 
students, according to Dean of Students James 
Roemer. Roemer revealed yesterday they were 
students from an out-of-state college visiting friends 
here. 
The burglars stole over $200-worth of food and 
equipment from Fisher Hall food sales at approxi­
mately 4 a.m. Sunday. 
Roemer was contacted and informed that the stolen 
equipment was aboard a Greyhound bus headed for 
Notre Dame. A subsequent check with Greyhound 
proved the package had been sent. 
Roemer added a check to cover the remaining 
damages was also in the mail. 
''We are requiring full restitution for the damage,'' 
Roemer said. 
"After that I will contact the students to inform 
them never to come to Notre Dame again,'' he added. 
After the incident Bob Waddick, Fisher Hall 
president, stated there is a good case for bringhing 
back the hall monitors. This called into question the . effectiveness of security in residence halls. "The hall monitors basically were a fire watch with no police power," said Director of Security Arthur 
After one motion to amend the proposal was defeated, Senate member Paul Kenney motioned that the proposal be resubmitted to the Senate subcommittee. The Faculty Senate voted 18 to 10 to return the proposal for further consideration. 
The Faculty Senate also discus­
(continued on page 3) 
that 300. The quake seemed to hit hardest in the southern or old part of Guatemala City, populated mainly by pour families. The area is made up of two-and three-story masonry houses, built with no serious earthquake protection, that have been divided into apartments and makeshift huts. 
Seismological stations put the magnitude at 7.S on the Richter scale. "We would .call it a major earthquake," said a spokesman at the U.S. National Earthquake In­formation Center in Golden, Colo. "A magnitude of 8 would be a great earthquake." 
Officials said they feared many were killed as the buildings collaps­ed while the residents slept. 
Many persons wandered in a daze through the debris-choked 
Pears. With modern fire-detection equipment in the halls, Pears said, monitors were discontinued because it was not worth it to keep them. 
Although they did more than merely look for fires, Pears said, the added number of jresident . assistants in the halls along with students staying up late can do the job as effectively as the monitors. 
Pears also stated that in many cases rectors did not want monitors. 
No Increase In burglaries 
Pears pointed out there was no increase in the number of burglaries this year over the same time period last year. With the burglaries being "minimal," he sees no justification to bring back the monitors. 
"The students and resident assistants can do what the monitors did, and even better, if they want to become involved,'' he said. Pears added any rector can have a monitor simply by asking. 
Fr. Carl Ebey, rector of Fisher Hall, said, although there is no crisis stage on campus, he would like to see the monitors back . 
He added they cannot stop everything. If the monitor is in the basement, he cannot prevent something on the fourth floor, he concluded. 
Hall retains monitor 

Cavanaugh is one hall which still has a monitor. 
Mike Pavlik, president, said, "The security in our hall has been adequate." All doores, except the front, are locked at parietals and the monitor can see all that goes on. 
Pavlik stated, "the measures taken in the hall have been a great deterrent to burglaries." 
In Flanner, Fr. John Mulcahy, rector, said there have been no incidents this year. HP. sees no 
(continued on page 4) 

streets trying to find possessions. Rescue efforts were hampered by the rubble., scattered small fires, and at least 15 aftershocks that brought down already weakened walls. 
A volcano south of the city was spouting smoke when dawn broke. 
There were no reports of casualt­ies in the other affected countries of Hondouras and EI Salvador, to the southeast of Guatemala, and Mexico, to the northwest. How­ever, the northern part of Hondur­as reported very heavy damage estimates. 
Guatemala government and res­cue authorities in the stricken town of 1.5 million inhabitants were trying to compile an estimate of the dead and injured but hours after the shock still had made no official report 

~---------------­
2 the observer Thursday, February 5, 1976 
---News Briefs--­l=============lntemational 
Terrorists killed 
DJIBOUTI, Mars and Issas Territory--French sharpshooters killed six guerrillas holding 30 children hostage in a hijacked bus near the Somali border yesterday, officials said. One of the gunmen loosed a burst of automatic frre, killing a French girl and wounding six other hostages before he was shot. 

Gandhi to continue 
NEW DELHI, India--The lower house of Parliament voted yesterday to postpone national elections, giving Prime Minister Indira Gandhi authority to continue her tough emergency rule without seeking a new public mandate. 
By a vote of 165 to 20, the house gave itself an extra year in offive for the frrst time since the country won independence in 1950. The regular five-year term was to have expired on March 18. 

I=====================National 
Fire kills ten 
NEW YORK--A smoky fire sent poisonous fumes through an upper West Side apartment house early today, killing 10 persons, seven of them children, and hospitalizing 10 others. Thirty families were driven out into subfreezing weather. 
The blaze in the six-story building on West 94th Street near the Hudson River apparently began around 12:20 a.m. in an overstuffed chair in a first-floor rear apartment, frre officials said. It spread rapidly up to the back of the building through pipe recesses. 

Ervin's sister is hostage 
RICHMOND, Va.--Heavily armed police today surrounded a Richmond home in which a gunman had holed up with several hostages, including the ages sister of former North Carolina Sen. Sam Ervin. 
They said Ervin's sister, Laura Hall, 90 and totally disabled, was among those in the home in which the gunman took refuge after firing at pursuing officers during an automobile chase. 

Housekeeper pleads innocent 
CHICAGO--Denise Watson pleaded innocent Wednesday to murder and arson charges in connection with a North Side nursing home frre that claimed 15 lives. 
The 21-year-old substitute housekeeper at the Wincrest Nursing and Rest Home, where fire broke out Friday, entered her plea in Circuit Court. 
•===========Local 

100 busted 
BWOMINGTON, Ind.--Approximately 100 persons, charged with the sale and possession of dangerous drugs, were issued arrest warrants and taken into custody here late Tuesday night and early Wednesday morning, state police said. 
State police said the arrests climaxed a 13-month investigation by its narcotics division and a special forensic unit of the Bloomington police force. Bond was to be set at SS,OOO. 

On Campus Today-.. 
9am-5pm --volunteer program, peace crops and vista repre­sentatives, lib. lobby. 
3-10 pm --exhibition, valley mobile home chapters trailer show, ace, $1.50, also feb 6, 7 and 8 
4 ~ pm --seminar, "state of hydrocarbon chain in micellar solutions of ionic and non-ionic surfactants," by duppuswarhy kalyanasundaram, conference room, radiation research bldg., sponsored by radiation lab. 
6:30pm --slide show, of ghana and philippines, by peace corps volunteers, amp. 1-c, Iafortune. 
7 pal --computer course, "esp-the economietric software package," 115 math-computer center. 
8 pm: --lecture, "the criminal justice system in the military," by prof. charles rice, lib. aud., sponsored by military affairs. 
9-11 :30 pm --jazz combo, stepan center. 

Connally expected to receive key presidential appointment 
WASHINGTON AP Former Tre­asury Secretary John B.Connally is expected to receive a key assign­ment when President Ford an­nounces his reorganization of the 
U.S. intelligence system, White House sources said today. 
The sources said Connally, a former Texas governor, is in line for appointment to the President's Foreign Intelligence Advisory Board, which is expected to be strengthened as part of the admini­stration's overhaul of the nation's intelligence agencies .. 
Coleman to allow 
Concorde flights 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Secretary 
of Transportation William T. Cole­
man Jr. authorized two foreign 
airlines Wednesday to offer limited 
scheduled flights of the fast but 
noisy Concorde· supersonic passen­
ger jet into two U.S. airports for 16 
months. 

The order is effective March 4, 
but the 16-month trial period will 
not start until the first scheduled 
flight is made, probably in April. 
Coleman's order was challenged 
in court within minutes of its 
release. Several senators also said 
they planned to ask Congress to 
overturn the ruling. 

However, President Ford ex­
pressed strong support for his 
Cabinet officer and said he would 
stand behind Coleman's decision. 
Coleman's ruling would permit ' 
British Airways and Air France to 
Connally served on the advisory board until his resignation as treasurer· in July, 1973. One year later, Connally was indicted by a federal grand jury and accused of taking illegal gratuities from a dairy co-operative. He was acquitt­ed of all charges in April1975. 
Ford is expected to announce details of the intelligence reorgan­zation in about 10 days. 
In other developments, the 
House Intelligence Committee is 
giving quick approval to recom­
mendations designed to give Con­
gress more control over secret spy 
operations launched in foreign 
countries. 
The panel, involved in considera­tion of a number of recommenda­tions resulting from its study of u~s. intelligence agencies, approv­ed proposals on Tuesday that would abolish the Pentagon's De­fense Intelligence Agency and re­quire intelligence agencies to let Congress see secret information. 
Proposals the committee has yet to consider include creation of a permanent intelligence committee and a requirement that all covert operations be reported to Con­gress. 
Other recommendations approv­ed by the committee would require a six-member group to advise presidents on all proposed covert operations-and require each of the six submit detailed reports to the president for or against each operation. 
The six members of the recom­mended National Security Council (NSC) subcommittee on foreign operations would include the secre­tary of state, secretary of defense and the director of the CIA. The subcommittee would replace NSC's 40 Committee. 
That recommendation stems from a finding in the still unpub­lished report that former President Richard M. Nixon directed the CIA to supply weapons to Kurdish rebels in Iraq, despite objections from Secretary of State Henry A, Kissinger, the CIA and the State Department, according to commit­tee sources. 
r-----------------~
t GOLDEN TRIANGLE I 
: EVERYWED. LIVEJAZZ : tTHURS. NIGHT DISCO -LADIES 1/2PRICEf 
I  . f  
t  FRI. NIG HT  DI S CO­ $l.OOADM  f  
t  ALL DRINKS $1.00  f  
a  _, lr'"l"'\.'\.1,..  A  ""r  I  l'l  lr­ r-a.  ·----A Ia.  I  A  A  r-a.  I  
ForeI.Dn a r 


offer limited Concorde service from 
London and Paris to Dulles Interna-if ~=~~!;~~~~!~;;!~~!;;:==~===!~ 
tiona! Airport near washington and 
to Kennedy International Airport in New York. l Eachairlinewouldbeauthorized to offer a maximum of two daily
flights each to Kennedy and one 
daily flight each to Dulles. The 
flights could be operated between 7 
a.m. and 10 p.m. Coleman retained authority to 
-cancel the demonstration period at any time on four months' notice 
and to cancel it immediately in the lliillli.iiliiiiiliiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii==iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiliiii•••llllillllllll 
event of an emergency "deemed harmful to the health, welfare or safety of the American people." 
The secretary's order with re­spect to Dulles is final unless overturned by Congress or a fed­eral court, since that airport is owned by the federal government. 
The Port Authority of New York-New Jersey apparently must also approve the Concorde with respect to Kennedy since that airport is owned by the authority. 
Concorde landing rights were opposed by the Environmental Protection Agency but supported by the National Aeronautics and Space Administration. 
The Observer is published Mondaythrough Friday iYld weekly during the surrmer session, except during the exam; iYld vacation periods. The Observer' is published by the students Of the Univ. of Notre Darre and St. Mary's College. Subso'iptions may be purdlased for $18 ($10 per semester) fro'Tl The Qbsenler, Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second Class 


Night Editor: Tim O'Reiley Asst. Night Editor: Jim Stevens 
Layout Staff: Claire McCar­thy, Diane Nugent Day Editor: Eileen O'Grady Copy Reader: Kathy Mills 
Features: Tom O'Neil Sports: Tom ~ruczek Typists: Neil Viii, Sue Schel­enber~er JudyArenson 
Ad Layout: Patrick, Tom, Joe, 
Mike and Neil. 
LNight Controller: Howard) "'Halle 
FEATURING  
AN ALL NEW SANDWICH MENU  
~Ill~f!'i1f!'i1~!l}i\!Et~mi  
••• ••• • •••  THURSDAY,FRIDAY,&SATURDAY -GAME ROOM­NILES & LASALLE AVE· PHONE 233-5326  .. •••••••  

r.•r::~ & } & . f
:.-.Parts accessories or imported carf. Rel\llio~al for all makes at lowest prices. 
~istrobutor 




"************************* 
~For ND Students, Faculty & Staff-~
*10 percent discount with I D S. * 
! purchase of $10 or more. ,...
************************. 

1 Mile North of NOTRE DAME on U.S. 31 North Just South of NORTH VILLAGE MALL • (219) 217·1522 
---r-

HEI..DOVER! UZA 7th WEEK IUJCKVI7:00 ·I GENE MINNEUJ BURT LAD\' 9:20 • HACKMAN ~ REYNOLDS SORRY-NO PASSES 

a boy and his dog 
an R rated, rather kinky tale of survival 
NO ONEADMITIED AFTER FEATURE STARTS-7:30-9:45 


AKE YOUR PICK-MIDNITE SHOWS-FRI. -SAT·.------­
SEE "A BOY AND HIS DOG".... OR 
..BrOTHer SUO SISTer MOOU" 
">IARRINC GRAHAM FAULKNER I JUDI BOWKFR 'AM) ALEC GUINNESS 
Medical and veterinary school aspirants who are thinking of ap­plying to Italian medical schools, and their families, must act immediately. New Italian government regulations require that pre­inscription applications be filed with the Italian Embassy in Wash., D.C., and Italian Consulates, before April 15, for consideration for medical and veterinary school admission in the fall of 1976. 
27 distinguished Italian medical schools accept Americans. Several hundred Americans now are studying at Italian medical and veterinary schools. 
All applications must reach the Italian Embassy and Consulates before April 15. Medical, dental and veterinary school aspirants who need assistance in language and cultural orientation, and preparation before, during and after medical school to enable the practice of medicine in the U.S., should contact the Institute of International Medical Education. The Institute has helped more American men and women enter European medical and veterinary schools than any other organization . 
Of the approximately 40,000 premeds and graduate students who will apply to American medical schools this year, about 35% will be accepted. Contact Student Information Office . 
INSTITUTE OF INTERNATIONAL MEDICAL EDUCATION Provisionally chartered by the Regents of the University of the State of New York 40 E. 54 St., New York 10022 • (212) 832-2089 
---------~------------------------------------------------. 
Thursday, February 5, 1976 the observer 
3 





lnPIRG· formulates semester goals 
by James Flahaven Staff Reporter 

An Environmental Education Seminar for teachers and a study of nursing homes will be the first of 
Appointments policy reassessed 
On February 28, InPIRG will hold an Environmental Education Seminarfor grade school teachers. Project Chairperson Julie Engle­hart says the purpose of the seminar •'is to give the teachers 
[continued from page 1) sed the special status report from the Senate Committee on Collective Bargaining. This report contained nine objectives concerning govern­ance and compensation, which the subcommittee felt should be seriously considered by the Senate in the immediate future. Robert Kerby, member of the Senate, added two more objectives, raising the total to 11. 
The Senate, which had originally planned on establishing the priority 
of each objective, instead debated tive committee and will be discus­the process they would use to set sed at the next meeting. priorities. They eventually agreed The Senate also decided by a by unanimous vote to adopt a unanimous vote to modify a propo­proposal made by Senate member sal for the revision of a section of James Danehy. the Academic Manual which deals 
Under Danehy's proposal, each with appointments and promotions Senate member will individually of teaching and research faculty. rank the objectives and submit They are altering this part to their rankings to the executive conform to the Academic Council's committee of the Senate. decisions concerning previous sec­
Objectives ranked the highest tions of the proposal. will then be referred to the appro­The faculty Senate also voted priate subcommittee by the execu-unanimously to present a proposal 
to the Academic Council that will 
revise the guidelines concerning membership of the Senate. The

Last Tango showing 
revision calls for the addition of two emeritus members to be elected by retired members of the faculty. 

defended by Donohue 
In addition, the Senate over 


by Mary Rathburn Staff Reporter 

Maura Donohue, cultural arts commissioner, defended last week­end's showing of Last Tango in Paris at Notre Dame in response to a letter criticizing the film in Monday's Observer. "Last Tango is not pornography," Donohue said. 
"Our aim is to pick out a culturally-oriented film series," Donohue pointed out. 
An X-rated film such as The Stewardesses would have no place in this series while Last Tango, although its rating is the same, is significant because of excellence in acting and direction, she explain­ed. 
She added the Cultural Arts Commission sponsors films that are important in the history of film­making, artistically produced and well directed, not because of financial success or mass popular­ity. 
Donohue expressed confidence in Scan Coleman and Laureen Goers, co-chairpersons of Cinema '76, who selected films for the series. including Last Tango. She praised their knowledge of the history and significance of films, good taste and discretion. 
Goers pointed out Bernard Bcrt­olucci, who wrote the story for and directed Last Tango, won best director award from the American Society of Film Critics for a previous tilm, The Conformist. 
"In Last Tango Bertolucci is not concerned with sexuality as por­nography," said Goers. "What he's really showing is that sex is overplayed in our culture as a solution to everything. And it isn't." 
many projects planned by the regional InPIRG, this semester. 
The area chapters of Indiana Public Interest Research Group presented the projects in an open meeting last night. 
whelmingly voted to request that a In response to the obscenity baccalaureate mass be said for any
charge, in the letter to the editor,
Goers commented, "I knew a lot of faculty member or student who 
~~le wooldn't li~ the rum ~d:i:~~d:u:ri:n:g~t:h:e~a:c:a:d:em:ic~~:a:r~-~~~==============;=~=~;~;~~~~~
because they would expect por-Jl nography." She felt instead the 

GIVEYOUR LOVED ONE
audience was challenged by the 
message of the film. 
Although she and Coleman were concerned about bringing Last Tango to Notre Dame, they finally decided to do so on its artistic merits. Goers has not personally heard any unfavorable criticism of the film. 
Student Activities Director Bro. John Benesh agreed the Cinema '76 team is careful about what they bring to campus and gave serious thought to the advisability of ordering Last Tango. 
Both Benesh and Bro. Just Paczesny, vice-president for stu­
what he or she really deserves ­an Observer 
VA LENTINE Classified 
Special Issue Feb. 13 Get 1 0 words of love for only $1.00. 
ideas to use in the classrooms. Environmental education now is often just short sessions on ecolo­gy. We want to instill environmen­tal values through other areas like English and history, too." 
Dave Carlyle will head a study on area nursing homes. Carlyle hopes the study will not only turn up any cases neglect on the part of the nursing homes, but also serve as a comparative study to be used by older members of the South Bend community. 
Among the other projects plan­ed is a tood pricing survey to follow up a similar survey done last semester. 
Also a study of testing services used at the Universities, and investig,tions of various aspects of local government are scheduled to be undertaken. 
The success of these projects and of InPIRG in general, hinges on finding the solutions to two major problems: financing and volun­teers. 

8 mi. N. of State Line 


advance of plans to show Last 
Tango and neither objected. 
Benesh, however, expressed worries about future scheduling of controversial films. 
"I believe there should be some more specific guidelines for the kinds of movies shown," he said. "Perhaps the showing of Last Tango might spark some move to formulate guildelines.'' 
He suggested a separate com­mittee composed of students and faculty might be formed to judge controversial films if questions of propriety should arise in the future. 




&~~~.~i~~~~~,~i~~~iiiiW~iha~t~a~d~eia~l~!iiiii===~~~~~a~~~~iiii~ 

Drawing to be held Wed. Feb. 11 
at 7 p.m. COUPON TOMORROW 
******************************* ****,
t Feb. 9-11 
*
* CLAUDE KIPNIS 
*
*
*
* MIME THEATRE
*
*
* presented by
*
*
*
*
* N.D.'sCAC, SMC, &IUSB
*
** Wed, Feb. 9, 8 p.m., Periormance
*
*
*: Olaughlin Aud. 
* 
Tickets on Sale at N.D. Student Union
*
*
* Ticket Office
*
* 
: $3.50 General Admission 
'*********\~~~.~~~~~~***** 


South Bend may stop movies 
(continued from page 1~ 
from the films, provides a multi­tude of campus organizations with money to run their activities. 
If these funds become non­existant, then campus-wide activi­ties such as parties, outings, free concerts and science fairs could cease to exist. 
The money from the Services Commission also keeps down the student fee. 
"Perhaps the most serious result would be no weekend movies, which are very often the only social activities for many students," she said. 
With concerts kept to a minimum this semester, movies become a ne· cessary social activity, the film co-oprdinator noted. 
Students' responslbWty 
A few precautions have been taken already but the main re­sponsibility rests with the students. At the beginning of the films students will be asked not to smoke in the auditorium and that they take out anything they bring into 

~ 
f 
(continued from page 1) need for the hall monitors in Planner. 
Dan Buckley, president of Mor­rissey, sees no major problem, only the "small number of irresponsible people in the hall." 
He said competent monitors should be hired and feels that could have helped what happened in Fisher. Buckley added the halls cannot afford to pay for them so it is up to the University. 
Waddick called tor "a re-evalua· tion of the system of monitors." He believes some type of monitors is necessary and the old type was better than nothing. 
Two televisions have been stolen from Fisher, and Waddick sugges­ted "hiring graduate students to do it and giving them more power." 
Vending machines 
Waddick said the lack of security hurts halls when they try to get vending machine games. He claimed, "The companies seem to think Notre Dame has a reputation for vandalism." 
"This rr.akes it hard for a hall to do business with them,'' he added. 
Ford Vending Co. has no mach­ines at Notre Dame this year although in previous years they the auditorium. 

This is a simple but essential request ifwe are to continue having movies, Malkus said. 
Considering there is no other place comparable to the Engineer­ing Auditorium to show films, there may not be any more movies, Malkus stressed. 
Washington Hall could not be used because there are so many bad seats there and keeping a person at each of the entrances would not be economically feasible, she pointed out. 
Malkus stated the position taken 

Ms., located on our lower level. 
Art center to hold exhibit 
SIP COFf'EE by the fireplace in a relaxed atmosphere.

' The Art Center will sponsor an Area residents are invited to exhibit and sale of approximately browse through this outstanding 
COMPLETE PRIVACY in our individual styling units.

600 original prints from the Ferdin-collection of original praphics. 
by the Occupation, Safety and Health Administration is "not an idle threat," which means there must be an immediate response or there will be an end to the few social activities still on campus. 
Students who were at the last showing of Last Tango In Paris know exactly how serious a hazard can develop. 

THf 

Garbage was piled knee-high in some places and some students 
~ueen'~ (astlt

were throwing apples and beer cans at the screen. WRCOMES 
The situation is deplorable, she said. 
I\nigl)t~ 
NEW CONCEPT in unisex hairstyling for Men and 




Hall monitors considered
r 
gets you more $$!

' 
r 


to supply greater security 
and Roten Galleries collection on A knowledgeable Roten repre­Sat., Feb. 14, from 10 a.m. to 5 sentative will be on hand to answer 
p.m. The event will be held at the question about the prints and the Art Center, 121 N. Lafayette Blvd., artists and to discuss other prints in the Main Gallery. not in this collection but which may 
Along with prints by such mas-be obtained from the gallery in ters as Picasso, Goya, Renoir and Baltimore. Hogarth, can be seen works by--'--'------------, many oftoday's American artists. 
MICHIANA TAX SERVICE 

have. A representative said they had too much trouble and it was not -­worth it to have machines here. 
He noted money was stolen from machines in Grace and the backs lf machines were ripped off in How­ard last year. The representative said the company would do ousi­ness if better security were provid­ed. 
On the other hand, Michiana Vending Sales services Planner, Grace and Morrissey this year. The representative said in three years there have been only five break-ins. 
Morrissey is the only hall in which they had trouble this year. He claimed this was not as bad as some other places they have mach­ines. 
Michiana Vending Sales insists on some type of supervision be­cause the machines are expensive. This is provided by the halls. 
The spokesman said most places will not let you have machines there is to be no supervision. 
Roemer said he will talk with Pears about "more effectively us­ing our present staff of Security." He does not see the Fisher incident as a justification for hiring more people. 
Roemer said, "there is no crime wave on campus." He said he is pleased with the situation this year. 
Reg. 95¢ 
2 $150 
FOR 




BULLA SHED 
a warm spot on a cold day! Reg. 95¢ JOIN US -meet new people -$150
2

especially if you have FOR never come 
This Friday and every Friday Mass -Dinner 5:15 pm 
FAST SERVICE for carefree cuts and blow styies. WE FEATIJRE RK products. 

AN/CURES for men $4 PRECISION CUTS $5 HAIRCUTS $4 BLOW STYLING $4.5 PERMANENT WAVING by NATURAL MAN $25 
$1.01) OFF A PRECISION CUT WITH BLOW ~"""'. 
<lfiUttn~· laittel-">.!'(A·'c~ 
54533 TERRACE LANE 


$AYE WITH THESE MONEY SAYING COUPONS THRU 

FEB.5 
3 LOCATIONS TO SERVE YOU 

710 W. McKINLEY AVE.-MISHAWAKA (Town & Cou,:"~try Shopping Center) 
1702 S. MICHIGAN -SOUTH BEND 
18.07 LINCOLNWAY EAST -SOUTH BEN 
Reg 95¢ 


2 $150 
FOR 
Reg. 95¢ 


2 $150 
FOR 


~---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­






Vietnamese in South Bend 
ahemisphere away from 
the Land of the Buddha they haue found new liues 

The Chau family is very atypical for most "We try to emphasize the cultural Vietnamese refugee families. The family aspects; street signs, things in a grocervhas only two children, a 14 year old son store, help them with their assignments;
who attends St. Joseph High School, and a the normal everyday things that would getdaughter at Radcliffe. Both Chau and his 
you through the day," Sr. Carol explains.The Nguyen family has seven children wife received their P.H.D.'s from the "The kids who tutor just can't say enoughby Eileen O'Grady ranging in age from 17 to two years old.' U~iversity of Chicago eight years ago, so about how appreciative the Vietnamese arc The parents are young, in their middle neither they nor their children had trouble for anything. They have a super positive 
South Bend, like many other cities across thirties. They have been in South Bend settling into the American community. attitude about everything that's happened
since Sept. 30, and spent three months at After the communist take-over, Chau and to them," she adds.
the country, has become the new frontier Ft. Chaffee. Mr. Nguyen works as an his family first escaped to Singapore and
for a rising number of Vietnamese refu­One St. Mary's student, Annette Jen­
~ssistant ~aintenance man at Imagineer­then to Paris. From Paris they went to
gees. Nearly 100 immigrants have already kens, explains her first tutoring experience 
mg Enterpnses, Inc. In Vietnam, he was a California where an American family
planted roots here and begun the pioneer­with another Nguyen family. "The first
policeman. His son Long works at Hank's sponsored them. They only came to South
ing process for a new life. meeting all we did was smile and bow at
Friendly Super Market, and together they Bend in Septmeber because of the two job
The journey from Vietnam to South Bend each other. The only time we really
provide the family's income. Both speak offers at Notre Dame.
was a long and arduous process for most of communicated was when we shook hands 
very broken English. ''The highest priority is to get jobs for
these 16 families. After their escape from at the end.''
Two of the children attend Central these people; any job to earn a living,"
South Vietnam they were placed in the Middle School with the rest of Colfax Chau states. "The people must get better • "We always used to come in and say.
refugee camp at Fort Chaffee, Arkansas. 
Elemen!ary School. They have caught on training and learn English, so they Hello. How are you?' And they would just
canCase workers from Fort Chaffee contacted to Enghsh much more quickly than their prepare for more meaningful and satisfy­laugh," she continued. "But one daythe South Bend Catholic Social Services in when we asked them how they were, oneparents,. with 12 year old Lin actually ing work," he continues.

search of sponsor families. The Social mterpretmg for the rest of the family. She His son Khoi enjoys school here. The man smiled and said. 'How are you? I amServices in turn contacted all the churches claims they all like school and have many curriculum is not much different, although fine.' I was so happy, I just wanted to hugin the area. They responded with names of friends there. She does not find much he also has a better background in math. him. We both just laughed and everybodyfamilies who volunteered to sponsor Viet­
difference between school here and back in "St. Joe's is a lot of fun. Actually, it's clapped," she said. 
namese families. As more South Bend Vietnam, although "the math is very easy pretty easy," states Khoi. "You're not Mary Helen Nugney, another St. Mary'sfamilies volunteered, more Vietnamese here," Lin states. told what to do as much here as in student , described taking the children outfamilies were brought up from Ft. Chaffee. 
Most of the 16 Vietnamese families in Vietnam. Also the classes are only half as ~o play London Bridge. "The funny thingHowever there are stilllO,OOO Vietnamese IS they knew exactly what to do, only inS_outh Bend_ are large, with an average of big," he adds. He explains that many ofstill at the camp. 
Vietnamese," she said.
!>IX to a fam1ly. One family may consist of his classes in Vietnam had as many as 80The Catholic Social Services have been the immediate members along with grand­students in one room. Sr. Carol agrees that the immediatethe real driving force behind the adjust­parents and other relatives. At least one Education for the are
ment here in South Bend. The service problems Vietnamese the 
member of every family can speak English ~nglish b~rrier and lack of job training, but
center collects clothes, food and money South Bend offers many educational
well enough to manage. The married son JUst as Important is the need of the
from parishes for various parishes for all opportunities for the Vietnamese. All
is usually the head of the household yet Vietnamese to develop their own sense of
the Vietnamese to come to know people in schools age children immediately attend
most of the adult males in the household community. "We must provide the
the community. They also publish a school, usually the school the sponsor
work, along with a few of the women. opportunity so the Vietnamese can deter­
bi-lingual monthly newsletter, entitled family attends. The Vietnamese news­
Overall, the adjustment seems to have mine their own needs, start their own
New Life, informing the families of new letter reports "all of our Vietnamese
been hardest on the Vietnamese women. educational process and have some sense
arivals, social events and general informa­children of schoolage are adjusting well to
Their role in the Vietnamese culture is of being at home here," she contends. 
tion about their new community. Their their new educational enviroment."
usually one of housewife and mother so
most important function is coordination The Adult Basic Education Center, in No matter how many problems seem to
they have little exposure to English and' the 
between the Vietnamese families and the South Bend, offers English classes twice a remain, the initial efforts have been
American society outside their family. 
sponsor families. week, which all the Vietnamese adults are successful. This is best summed up in a According to Pierre Korndorfer, the Employment urged to attend. The structure is to teach passage from the Vietnamese Newsletter 
Vietnamese coordinator for the Catholic the fundamentals of English, as a foreign written by Hieu Huu Vu: "I wondered ho~
All but two of the families have at least
Social Services and a Vietnamese refugee language is taught. Approximately 60 I would ever be able to start a new life for 
himself, the role of the sponsor is to help one person employed. "Generally the people attend each class. myself after I left Vietnam behind. It was
kinds of jobs they get here are of lower skill the family adjust to the American life-style. 
The Campus Ministry at St. Mary's extremely difficult for me to start learningthan what they had in Vietnam," explains 
"The sponsor receives the family into their College also offers private tutoring for each a new language. The customs in America
Roger Parent, in charge of recruiting
house, gives them food, assists them with of the Vietnamese families. Approximately are so different, even the amusements. I 
sponors for the Catholic Social Services.
money and helps them in looking for jobs, 65 Notre Dame and St. mary's students go was really scared I But the generous
"Those who were soldiers cannot translate 
until they become self sufficient," he into homes and tutor English for two hours people in ~outh Bend have so lovingly 
explained. the skills needed here or learn the a week. Sr. Carol Jackowski, supervisor, opened thetr arms to welcome me in thislanguage fast enough," he adds. He gives 
The Nguyen FamUy describes it at supplementary to what the new society that I feel a new confidence
the example of one man who was a children learn in school and the adults at and hope. A grateful thanks to my sponsorlieutenant colonel in charge of construction 
The Nguyen family, for example, has the education center. and to all the people of South Bend." 
in Vietnam and is now a custodian at St.
nine sponsors. They immediately placed Mary's Day Care Center. Two other menthe family in a home of their own. The who were also soldiers in Vietnam are nov·Housing Allowance Program aided the working at McDonald's.
sponsors in finding the house and helps the Other professional men are having morefamily afford payments through loans and success at finding jobs. An accountantmonthly payments, instead of money ~rom Vietnam works for an accounting firm down. The sponsors also donated all the 111 South Bend, a pediatrician from Vietnam furniture for the house, helped pay the rent is presently taking courses to earn hisfor the first few months, supplied food in license to practice in this country. Dr. Lethe beginning and helped Mr. Nguyen and Thanh Minh Chau was the rector of thehis 17 year old son Long find jobs. 
Univeristy of Hue, and is now the assistant 

•. to the Vice President of Advanced Studies 
"We all meet in Bible Study once a week 
and discuss what else needs to be done for at Notre Dame. His wife, Dr. Le Tang Thithem. One of the next things is to get a 
car, driver's license and insurance for the 
Thanh Trai, was the founder and senior family," Hank Keultjes, one of the 
partner of a corporate law firm for 20 years sponsors, explains. "I think they really 
in Vietnam. She now is a graduate assistant at the Law School at Notre Dame
want to be independent fast and not be a and will be teaching a course there nextburden on us. I think they'll integrate just semester.
like everyone else," he adds. 

1"""'"---.-------------------------------------------------------­
Thursday, February 5, 1976
the observer 



Donohue new head of CAC 
by Paul Stevenson must conduct this semester are the Staff Reporter Sophomore Literary Festival and the Collegiate Jazz Festival. Both of these campus events
Maura Donohue has been named involve complicated finances which 

cultural arts commissioner by Tom requre undivided attention,Birsic
Birsic, Student Union Director. Donohue, last semester's assistant said. The Sophomore Literary Festival, for example, has a budgetcommissioner, replaced Chris Ma­hon, who resigned for personal of $11,000 provided by the Student Union that Donohue must adminis­

reasons.  
Donohue has been with the  
Student Union for two years. Last  
year, she worked for the Services  
Commission as editor of the off.•  
campus news letter and for the  
Clutural Arts Commission on the  
Sophomore Literary Festival.  
The Cultural Arts Commission  
sponsors such events as the  
Midwest Blues Festival, the Sopho­ 
more Literary Festival, the Colleg­ 
iate Jazz Festival, Cinema '76, the  
dance and drama series, and the  
Isis Gallery.  
''The Midwest Blues, the Sopho­ 
more Literary Festival and the  
Collegiate Jazz Festival require a  
great deal of administrative coord­ 
ination and financial planning,"  
Birsic said.  
''Chris was an extremely capable  
commissioner and his decision not  
to return this semester was quite a  
disappointment, but we feel that  
Maura is capable of handling the  
commission equally as well," he  
added.  
Donohue and her assishnt, Ger­ 
ald Doyle, will oversee the work­ 
ings of the Cultural Arts Commis­ 
sion.  
"There won't be too many  
changes this semester," Donohue  
said. "Everythin~ will stay basic­ 
ally the same."  
"The budget for the year was  
established last semester, and that  
has to be observed," she explain­ 
ed. "The main thing will be to  
reduce last year's expenses which  
were exorbitantly high.''  
The two major events Donohue  
So. Cal. doctors  
to end slowdown  
LOS ANGELES (AP) -Southern  
California doctors voted W ednes­ 
day to end a 35-day malpractice  
insurance protest slowdown and a  
spokesman said doctors would be Come You Fightin' Irish 
back in their offices as normal on  
Thursday.  
Dr. Richard Corlin, a spokesman for United Physicians of California­upc, said the physicians' group voted to end the slowdown during a  TO TOWN & COUNTRY  
meeting and decided that "phase one, to bring about a resolution of the medical malpractice insurance  ·FOR YOUR FAVORITE  
problem -the job action -has come to a successful conclusion." Corlin said the vote was "una­nimous" among the 300 doctors' statewide representatives in atten­dance.  WINES-LIQUORS  
UPC says that about 23,000 of its members took part in the slow­down. The group claims member­ Both Stores Open Nights 'til 11 PM  
ship of about 80 per cent of the  
41,000 doctors in the state. Despite protests of the exorbi­tant malpractice insurance rates,  LIQUOR • WINE  
many of the doctors have paid the  
new rates. Corlin said doctors would "con­ 10% DISCOUNT WITH ND-SMC 1.0.  
tinue pressure in other ways."·------------,I I I  BEER· BEST PRICE IN TOWN VOLUME DISCOUNT  
.•  I I ! 602 N. MichiganI I Across FromI Memorial HospitalI I r.JI I  WE'RE BEHIND THE IRISH  FREE DELIVERY FREE DELIVERY  
•l I!3.7::::2Ji  


---____J 

Thursday, February 5, 1976 
the observer 
Collegiate seminar class evaluated .. 
by WUUam Shaughnessy Staff Reporter 

Staffing is the major problem in the present Collegiate Seminar, according to the approximately twenty students who attended the open forum concerning the course in the lounge of the Library Auditorium yesterday afternoon. 
The forum was conducted by the committee a pointed by Isabel Char­les, acting dean of the College of Arts and Letters, to evaluate the Seminar. The committee listened to the students for over an hour. 
A major concern of the students was the lack of interest shown by 
12th Winter Olympics begin 
lNNSBRUCK (AP) • The East German teams set records in both the men's and women's luge events Wednesday and a Colorado couple grabbed hold of third place in ice dancing as the 12th Winter Olympic Games opened in this Alpine capital. 
Detlef Guenther, a 23-year-old East German technician, sped down the luge run on his back on a tiny sled in a record 52.38 seconds to edge three West German com­petitors. All must run three more times. Total times in the races which continue through Saturday decide the medalists. 
Margit Schumann of East Ger­many edged West German un­known Monika Scheftschik by a tenth of a second in a record time of 
42.85 seconds for the women's luge. The men race 1,220 meters, the women 870. 
In the first ice dancing competi­tion ever held in an Olympics, Russia's Ludmila Pakhomova and Aleksandr Gorshkov --five-time world champions and the favorites ht're -· took a strong early lead by winning the compulsory round. They took all three pattern dances easily. 
Two more rounds remain, Thursday and next Monday. 
They were followed by another Russian team, world titlists Irina Moiseeva and Andrei Minenkov. 
Making a bid for an American medal were Colleen O'Connor and Jim Millns, silver medalists at the 1975 world championships on their home rink in Colorado Springs. They were in third place, very close to second, in the intermediate standings of the competition. 
Switzerland's Philippe Roux broke the downhill ski record in the their instructors. Many felt their teachers did not want to teach the course and consequently came to class poorly prepared. 
Other students questioned the qualifications of their teachers. 
Student Mike Lavalle comment­ed, "Ifthe University is committed enough to this course to make it a requirement, they ought to spend the extra money to get better instructors. 
The sizes of the individual sec­tions also came under fire. One student commented, "My seminar is so big that each person can only It was noted limiting the class make a two-sentence comment 
size would also alleviate the proble about a book instead of discussing of unnecessarily lengthy discus­it... sions. 
last of Wednesday's trials, clocking The Games were formally 
1:47.02 minutes on the 3,145-meter opened with 90 minutes of fanfare course. That was more than 8.5 on an Alpine hillside. seconds faster than the record set Competition hits full stride on this course last year by Austria's Thursday with medal events in the Franz Klammer. men's 30-kilometer ski event, the 
It came on a day when three men's downhill ski and the wo­Americans, led by Greg Jones' men's 1,500-meter speed-skating seventh-place showing, placed in event. the top 11 in the final downhill tria I On Friday, the U.S. hockey team runs, boosting U.S. hopes for takes on what looks like an impos­Thursday's downhill. sible shore of deating virtually the 
Klammer, the downhill favorite same Russian team that over-in these Games, posted the second whelmed the professional National best trial time Wednesday at Hockey League in a series last 
1:47.33 month. 
DDIDHIIIIIIUIIIHUUIUIIIIIIIWIIMI 
THE POSTER PLACE 100 11 x17 POSTERS only $10.00 
• • .., 
i •nsty-pr1nls .(! 
I •
•... ~ 

203 N. M AIN ST. 
~ • •

L.-SOUTH BEN D 289-6977 ). 
~---"­

1 
M-Th BITE THE BULLET 
6:30 & 9:00 s­s 2:00, 4:30, 7:00 & Fri 7:00 & 9:30 SPECIAL FRI12:00 JANICE 
FART,HQUAKE 
M-Th 6:45 & 9: 15 Fri 7: 15& 9:45 
S-S2:15 4:45, 7: 15 & 9:45
1 

l?uiler-llf)U~e r=lix 
TWIN THEATRES-100 CENTER-MISHAWAKA­
. 

~********************************************** 
1 "~thlB~r. i* 
. I
: ···~ ~·· 
I *
I 
...

** TONIGHT! $.25
I I
I 
WE BRING YOU ANOTHER GALA HAPPY HOUR! 
*

* 
...
*

*
* I
*
*
*

*
I I
HURRICANES $1.00 ALL NIGHT
* 
* 
~ 

* 
~ 


* DANCING TILL 3:00 •
*
: 
! EVERYTHING FROM THE "BUSSTOP'I TO THE "LIMBO" 
'***************************•••·············••i 

The syllabus of the course was also discussed. Students pointed out the material was covered too quickly, often to the extent that the book was not given enough atten­tion. 
Tony Zipple, another student, proposed stretching the seminar over four or six semesters to insure that each book is covered in depth. Other students suggested covering fewer books during the present two semester seminar. 
Zipple also proposed grading the seminar on a pass-fail basis. Stu­dent Mark Grove felt that this would eliminate ''the student who feels obligated to spout x number of comments to receive an • A', but pa_y_s no attentton· to the _(l_Uartty of 
WANTED Parents need 2 Davidson tix. Call Doug 3172.  
Desperately need ride to Dayton this weekend. Call JoAnn 4-4491  
Need MNquette tlx. 3 GA or 2 ald student. 1364.  
Wanted: T'm GA Marquette tlx. Call 6804.  
Need riders FROM Milwaukee, will leave Sunday ill 4 p.m call AI, 1715, 3388. Need 2 Marquette Student fix. AI, 3388, 1715.  

I need GA and student tickets for 
* 5-11 P.M. 7&7's ONLY *

MNquette. Give me a break. Please call Rlt, 1654.  
I need GA and student tlc:la!ts for Marquette. Give me a break. Please call Rlt 1654.  
Desperately need a ride to Chicago this weekend. Can lea~~e anytime atter Fl"iday noon. Call Jim at 3593 or 3610. Need 1 Davidson ald W.Va. ticket. Cali Kevin 283-1724. Need tw> Marquette tickets. Call Sheila, 9135. Wanted: Ride to Toledo this weekend. Call Pl!ggy' 6661. I am sick at heart because 1 do not have 4 Marquette fix. call Milly, 6680.  
Wanted: IIDIUnteers for the Milton Shapp for President Comm. If Interested, call Tom at 288-0088.  
Wanted: Ride to Indianapolis or Terre Haute this weekend. Will share gas ald driving. Call Tom at 3341. Need ride to Penn State weekend of R!b. 13. Call Jan 6859. Appllca1tsover 21 for part-time deridng, etc. Apply 11:00-6:00 p.m Rlrty Shoppes of South Bend, Offlm 913 Clover St. Will pay big rrooey for Marquette tickets. Call Mike, 8720. Wlll'lt tickets for Marquette gar!'~& or any other saturday game, Call Torn 1795. PERSONALS Happy Birthday Rare Car D-Iver. Malo-te Associates  
Pleaset Whoewr "lifted" rnv badcpac:k at rnv par1y llf ._return the notes1 Teny G., 289-8063 -------------­BUT TOM­BUT NOTHING IS BETTER FOR THEE THAN ME. -------------­MOCK STOCK MARKET • Feb. 2 ttvu Feb. 27. Old Business Building, 10 ..~. 3 p.~ Mon. thnJ R1. Win $100, sso, S25. 5ponsor11d by N. b. RMnat Club. MMn, H21bd Uk. Drpc P.s.ww. llo.:  

what he is saying." 
Grove 11lso felt students should 
have more say in choosing the 
books they read. He said this would 
result in more students reading the 
books more thoroughly. 
One student also said students should be able to choose their instructors, if possible instead of being assigned arbitrarily to a particular section. 
There was, however, praise as well as criticism for the seminar. All but one student were in favor of continuing the course. 
Those in favor cited the course 
structure, the exposure to students 
outside their specialized majors, 
the acquisition of analytical skill 
and the knowledge gained about 
Western culture as benefits of the 
course. 
One student, Bruce Zerfas, countered, "I do not see what is so vital about Collegiate Seminar. The classes are usually dominated by a few students, which leads to poor discussions.'' 
"The books chosen have no value. I feel the course should be optional instead of required," he added. 
Classified Ads 
Bill, When ca1 we ha~~e our talk? My late nights get awfully lonely! 
Win $25 bond at TACO RICO RESTAU+ RANTE. Scottsdale Mall. Unda Slaughter's birthday Is soon (next week). We need pn!Ctlcal joke suooes­tlons. Call 1248 . 
FOR SALE 


Ans~ to questions. Gay CorT111Jillty of Notre Dame. Hotline 8870, Fl"i. & sat. 8-10 p.m. or IM'ite P.O. Box 206. 
SKIS; 195 em H.-t R'ee Styles; lila!,_, used twlm. Leave name with Chris Snith llf Observer If Interested. 
For Sale: Kawasakl G-5 100 a:. Ex.reflent CDndltlon. Good for CDITm.Jtlng. 120.. rrpg. Call 1688. 
For sale: Unl110x Bectric Guitar. Nlm sound and good action. Call Bob lit 1-487. 
For Sale: N.D. letter lad<el, cheap. Call 1922. 
For Sale: Dolomite ski boots, size 9. Used one season. Call 1924. 
FOR RENT 

Available for Sept. TIMl to seven bedroom houses. Cofll)letely furnished. Call Mrs. Hurrbarger, 234-9364. 
NOTICES 

Term Paper -Thesis -l...etter'-A Uttleor a Lot -we can Hetp . 
A Cofll)iete Typing Servia! 
207 Dixie Way North 
South Bend, Indiana 
277·2922 

Need a tune-up? You buy the parts, 1will Install plugs, points, condenser and set timing for $8. call Bob 8610. 
Desperlltely need 5 Marquette fix. call Bleen 6798. 
Aa:urate, fast typing. Mrs. Donoho, 232-0746. 
MORRISSEY LOAN $20-$150. 1--dBy walt. 1 peraant tnt. ~Fortune, M-F, 11:15-12:15. 
IBM Selectric II typing. Mllnusaipts, dlssertllflon. 6<perienced. 289-5193. 
Book Store -Old Bookslll'ld Aints. Hour.1 Wednesday, saturday, SU1day 9-7 or chlll'la!. Ralph Casperson, 1303 Bud1lll'll!ll'l 
~.Niles. 
LOST& FOUND 

Lost : F'\Jrple Midi Colli. Lost 1111 Mardi GnE Aiday. Re\Mrd, no quest~ IISiu!d. call Marilll'lne 8060. 
Lost: Black \Willet with I. D. O!r'dll. RIM.erd. call 1609. 

~-~-----------­
Dantley excels as ND rips Explorers 
Record crowd watches A.D. bomb LaSalle with season-high 41 points in Irish's 108-89 win 
Toby Knight helped out with 13 rebounds. 
ND ski team finishes first 

by Ernie Torrlero 
In one of the best total team efforts of the season the Fighting Irish of Notre Dame downed La Salle, 108-89, before the largest throng ever to witness a collegiate basketball game in the history of Pennsylvania. 
Twelve Notre Dame players saw action in a performance highlighted by the devastating play of consen­sus All-American Adrian Dantley. Dantley scored 41 points and tied his career high of 17 rebounds before leaving the contest for the first time with just over two minutes left. 
Total team effort was the pass­word of victory as Notre Dame boasted four players in double figures. Freshman center Bruce Flowers hit for a career high 14 points while Duck William and Toby Knight netted 13 apiece. 
The Irish reeled off the first eight points of the contest before Ex­plorer guard Charlie Wise hit the first LaSalle points of the evening. "Sweet Charlie" as he is known in 
the City of Brotherly Love, was to net 26 points in a losing cause. 
With LaSalle in a man-to-man defense and 6'0" guard Daryle Charles guarding the taller Dant­ley, the Notre Dame scoring mach­ine was producing at will. Dant­ley's jumper with 8:30 left in the half gave Notre Dame a command­ing 27-12 advantage. 
It was the great height advan­tage that helped net Dantley a quick surge of points. The Wash­ington, D.C. native hit of six of his 

-
The Notre Dame ski team cap­tured a first place finish in the combined scoring of the Detroit News Cup Race this past weekend at Alpine Valley in Michigan. The race, which was the second part,"' of a four part series hosted by the News, hosted ten men's teams and eight women's teams. 
ND captured the first place combined finish by placing first in the slalom event and third in the Giant Slalom competition. Captain Gordon Wilson finished ninth in the slalom race, jmust five-tenths of a second out of first. Freshman Pete Rowland placed 14th. In the slalom, Wilson was fourth, while Rowland was 12th and senior Chris Cannon finished 14th. 
The women's team finished fourth out of eight teams, with 

-
points scored by Nora Duffy and Ann Hawkins. 

first eight field goal attempts and at times single-handedly outscored the Explorers. 
The three-guard LaSalle offense, the same type of game plan which worked so well for Maryland just 
three days before, was forced to work from long range as the pressuring Irish defense forced numerous turnovers. When the teams went in for the halftime respite, the scoreboard told of a 
52-34 Irish lead. 
In the first two minutes of the second frame' LaSalle outscored Notre Dame 8-3 and cut the Irish margin to 55-42. With Dave Batton and Dantley heading the charge the Irish ran· off a string of ten unanswered points forcing LaSalle to play catch-up for the rest of the night. 
At the 14:00 minute mark, Toby Knight hit an outside jumper giving the Irish a 20 point lead, 87-67. On the very next basket, Dantley went to the hoop for a 
-driving lay-in giving him exactly 500 points on the season. The Irish reached the century mark when Bernard Rencher hit a free throw at the 2:24 left in the game. Digger Phelps substituted freely in the remaining minutes as the huge crowd of 16,297 prepared for the second game of the college extravaganza between Villanova and South Carolina. IRISH ITEMS: Dantley's 41 points gives him an even 1900 in his storied career. His 17 rebounds tied a career high set this year vs. Texas Tech and last year against 
The ski team races again this weekend at Crystal Mt. in Michi-
Krause named to Hall of Fame 
Edward "Moose" Krause, Notre 
Dame Athletic Director, has been 
named to the Basketball Hall of 
Fame it was announced yesterday. 
Krause, who has served as Athletic Director at Notre Dame for 26 years, will be inducted into the Hall at Springfield, Mass. on April 26th of this year. 
As a student here during the years of 1931-1934 Krause excelled in both football and basketball, and was named All-American in both sports. In basketball he once held the season and career scoring records for a Notre Dame player. He captained the basketball team in his senior year. 

Bernard Rencher, after seeing little action vs. Maryland Saturday saw a lot of play last night. His five-point total included the first free throw made in his collegiate career. 
Freshman Bruce Flowers tied a season high with his 14 points. Reserve senior Myron Shuckman netted five points in a less than two minute appearance for his colleg­iate career high. 
Though Wise's 26 points output was the best performance from a LaSalle guard all year long, the Explorers suffered greatly when Wise's backcourt mate Glenn Col­Iier could hit on only four of sixteen from the field. 
The Notre Dame coaching staff felt that for the Irish to win against LaSalle it was necessary for them to stop junior big man Donn Wilber from having a big day. Wilber netted 21 points, but fouled out with just over six minutes left. 
Notre Dame outrebounded the opposition for the 17th straight game. The Irish lead the country in rebound margin per game. 

The Irish hit on 40 of 83 field goal attempts. The 28 for 40 free throw percentage is the most free throws attempted and made in a game this year. Dantley was unstoppable in the Irish's drubbing of LaSalle last 
night in the Spectrum in Philadelphia. [Photo by Chris Smith] 
Irish look to Pirus for surge 
By Tom Kruczek 
If the Notre Dame hockey team is 
to make the top four places of the 
WCHA this season and get a home 
birth for the upcoming playoffs, the 
one person who will be looked to for 
leadership on and off the ice is Alex 
Pirus. So we went to the Toronto 
native to discuss the Irish chances 
for post-season success. 
Thus far into the season, Pirus 
has netted 17 goals, and 8 assists, 
to give him a three year total of 48 
goals and 56 assists. His line is one 
of the most prolific in Irish history, 
as with Brian Walsh and Clark 
Hamilton they have combined for 
135 goals and 192 assists in not 
even three complete seasons. 
In those three years however, the 
team has not fared as well, losing 
three times in play-off action and .tying once. And this is something that Pirus and company aim to change this year. 
"We have to pull together and 
unify ourselves so we are all pulling 
together and not letting down. I 
think out chances are pretty good 
of opening at home the play-offs, 
but that means that we have to win 
some games to do that," Pirus 
said. 
The Il"ish (10-10-2 WCHA record) 
are currently tied for fifth place 
with Colorado College so all they 
need to do is move up one place 
before the end of the season and 
Notre Dame will open the play-offs 
at home. 
Coach Charles (Lefty) Smith agrees with Pirus that the Irish chances are good for a fourth place finish or better. "Looking at the rest of the schedule, you have to admit that our chances are good, because our three big series' are all at home. 
Smith was referring to the Mich­igan Tech series, Feb. 13-14, Michigan State the following week­end and then Minnesota-Duluth Feb. 27-28. Tech is the league leader and MSU is 6 points back in third place. 
Putting it into some statistical perspective, Pirus estimated that "we need to win 80-90 per cent of our games in order to finish better than fourth place and perhaps 65-75 per cent to get into fourth place. However, with games played back-to-back like we play them in the WCHA, sweeps are a tough 

thing to get and that's what we 
have to do." 

Actually, looking around the 
league, it appears that sweeps are 
a very difficult thing to get, as just 
Michigan Tech and Minnesota are 
well ahead of .500, while everyone 
else is floating right around the 
break-even mark. 

"It's hard to find the reason why we, and others have had trouble sweeping," Pirus explained. "I've been thinking about this a lot and the only thing I can think of is that there is a letdown after Friday night, especially if you win on Friday night.'' 
Pirus felt that winning is a habit-forming thing, like losing. The more you do of it in the past, the more you'll do it in the future. "I guess the way to explain it is that it's an electrifying feeling, and once you start winning a number of games, you don't worry when you fall behind, because you just know that you're going to end up on top in the end. Tech and Minnesota have it this year and it is a hard thing to get, but it takes hard work and a good winning tradition." 
However, one thing that can be noticed from statements made by both Smith and Pirus, is that they 
may be optimistic, but they are in 
the same breath, cautious. The 
combined record of the teams left to be played is 52-57; however, that record is brought down primarily by Denver and Wisconsin. The two teams who the Irish would have the easiest time sweeping because of poor records, will offer special difficulties because they will be played on the road. 
Denver is the mile-high city and Pirus pointed out that playing there gives problems because of the altitude. "You can only play 45 second shifts there, where here we play a minute and 15 second shifts usually. You get gassed up there a lot more easily." Wisconsin will be tough because the fans get riled up over hockey there, to say the least. 
The home games then will have to be the pivotal ones. The Irish will need to sweep Minnesota-Duluth and probably one other of the three and the best chance will be Michigan State. Then Notre Dame will hope to hope that the insanity that has infected the WCHA will continue and teams suddenly don't get hot. 

Alex Pirus fights for a puck in front of the Michigan State goaltender. [Photo by Tom Paulius] 


