State may consider lower drinking age 
By John Shaughnessy 
Starr Reporter 

The Indiana House of Representatives will vote either Thursday or Friday on lowering the state's drinking age to 19, according to Tom Black, coor· dina tor of the Notre Dame Student Lobby. 
Although Black expressed op­timism that the House will approve the bill, HR No. 1104, he stated "the strong conservative force" that exists in Indiana could lead to the bill's defeat. 
"It's going to be difficult but I think we can get the bill through. The vote will definitely be close," Black said. 
Black's analysis was similar to Representative Robert DuComb's. "It is really hard to say what the mood of the House is at this time. The vote in the committee was really close and that's the way I think it will be in the House," stated DuComb. 
Representatives Stan Jones <D­Lafayette > and Marilyn Schultz <D-Bioomington > introduced the bill which originally sought a legal drinking age of 18. The original bill was later amended to 19 by Rep. Richard Bodine, a strong sup­porter of a lowered drinking age. 
Bodine added the amendment after conferring with Black and Kurt Flock, president of the In­diana Student Association. <The ISA listed a lowered drinking age as its top priority for the year and has established a statewide lobby for that purpose.> Committee Compromise According to Black, a compromised legal age of 19 had to be made when the bill was sent to the House Public Policy Com­mittee. Two key committee members, Clifford Arnold and Craig Campbell, weren't sure they could support a legal age of 18. Both legislators, Black stated, agreed to support a 19-year-old drinking age. 
·'The reason they couldn't support 18 was their fear that alcohol would be introduced into the high schools," Black ex­plained. 
llad planned to compromise 
"We had planned to compromise at 19," Black continued. "But we didn't want to do it until the bill reached the Senate." 
Te compromise allowed the bill to be introduced into the House, according to Black. With Arnold alJdCampbellsupporting a 19-year­old ctrmkmg age, the bill passed through committee by a vote of 4-3 with one abstension. Bodine and Roach also supported the bill while Coleman, Nelson and chairman Dobis opposed the proposal. 

Representative Becker abstained 
University announces plans to expand endowment, visiti~g professorships 

by Ken Bradford 
Copy Editor 
Notre Dame has announced it will solicit funds to finance the establishment of forty more endowed faculty chairs and five visiting professorships at the University. 
In a booklet recently released by the office of Public Relations and Development, the University listed its immediate goal as 17 more endowed chairs in the College of Arts and Letters, seven each in the colleges of Science, Engineering and Business Administration and two more , chairs in the Law School. 
The eventual goal is to establish chairs for each position of full professorshi{)S at the University, the booklet notes. The endowed professorships will replace existing positions on the faculty and will not affect its size There are now 18 chairs and nearly 200 full professors at Notre Dame. 
Each endowed faculty chair requires a donation of $800,000. The new 40 chairs and the five 
Now that the bill has passed through committee, Black thinks the same result can be achieved in the House. He does admit, however, there are certain dif­ficulties to confront. 
"The supp<irt -is ·there in the House to pass the bill. The problem is that the representatives who would normally vote for the bill feel the bill will not pass through the Senate. Therefore, they don't wish to cast a liberal vote which could hurt them," stated Black. 
Black feels the bill has a "fighting chance" in the Senate. In a poll of the 50 state senators 16 of the 23 who responded favor the bill, according to Black. The support of ten more senators would be needed to pass the lowered drinking age in the Senate. 
State Senator Robert Kovach, however, doesn't share Black's ~ptimism. He said, "I sense very ~Jttle support for the bill's passage m the Senate. Its just my ob­servation but I'm not really op­timistic." 
Conservative force a problem
• 
Another problem area Black discussed was the influence of a strong conservative force in In­diana which is directly opposed to lowering the drinking age. 
He stated, "The strongest op­position comes from the state's conservative belt, the so-ealled 
'Bible Belt'. Moreover, the fact that this is an election year hurts because its a controversial issue and the conservatives seem to exert more pressure on the legislators." 
(continued on page 2) 

l 
""' -'(~ ....::::" .t'
~·::'·· 
--\ 
! . 


While the heavy snowfall that hit the midwest yesterday allowed some to make snowman and enjoy snowball fights It only served to remind the majority of students that we're indeed back in South Bend. For more photos and story see page 9 (Photo by Chris Smith) 
Frick visiting professorships will require donations of $36 million. 
Professors who hold endowed chairs have their expenses paid by the income from the invested endowment funds. The income pays the professor's salary, the cost of secretarial and research assistance, books and research materials and travel for academic 

un1versity of notre dome -st. mary's college 
Vol X., No. 63 
Wednesday, January 14, 1976 
Academic Council meets next week 
Opposition to calendar strong 
by Maureen Flynn Sr. Staff Reporter 
Efforts are now underway to bring the calender up for recon­sideration at the next Academic Council meeting, which is scheduled for Jan. 20, 1976. 
Opposition to the present calendar guidelines centers around the Friday after Thanksgivmg as a non-elass day. Tte measure was passed by a vote of 31-14 at the meeting of the Academic Council on Dec. 3, 1975. 
Initial opposition to the Council's decision was expressed at a "Laugh-in" organized by Student Goverment and held Dec. 5, 1975 in front of the Administration Building. At that time Student Body President Ed Byrne ex­plained the rationale behind the Council's decision, while student spectators roared in chorus. 
Byrne also outlined several ways in which the decision might be reversed, including complaints from "irate" parents and faculty members to influence the Council to reconsider the issue. 

purposes. Fr. Theodore H~sburgh, University president, VIews en­dowed chairs as beneficial for Notre Dame's prestige as well as its finances. "The endowed chairs 
allow departments the option of bringing in eminent outside scholars as senior colleagues or 
recogniziaing the highest level of scholarship among our own faculty," Hesburgh noted. 
"Because endowed 
professorships are supported 
from invested funds rather than 
operating mones, they remove 
some of the most expensive senior 
faculty positions from dependence 
on income such as tuition and tie 
them to funds which can ap­
preciate over time and survive 
inflation," he added. 
This announcement of support 
for faculty endowment is con­
sistent with the University's 
commitment to academic 
development and its dwindling 
interest in physical expansion. 
Late in 1973, the Committee on 
(continued on page 10) 
According to Student Govern­ment Academic Commissioner Mike Gassman, four Council members have already agreed to request a new discussion of the Ac ademic calendar for 1976-1977. A total of ten members are required to re-open the discussions. "I think a lot of people of the Council have changed their minds a little bit," Gassman said. 
Gassman noted that none of the 50 schools that replied to the Academic Commission's survey schedule classes for the day after 
Thanksgiving. Many schools have calendars similar to the one proposed by the Notre Dame student representatives, Gassman said, citing Cornell as an example. 
"It's kind of ironic," Gassman observed, "that in 1976, the nation's bicentennial, we will not be able to spend the biggest national holiday besides the 4th of July with our families." 
Gassman said a student petition with 4,128 signatures has alreadv been been seut to the Academic Council, along with statements from the Hall President's Council <HPC > and the Student Life Council ( SLC) opposing the current calendar guidelines. 

Student Body President Ed Byrne commented on the student petition drive. "It is absolutely incredible that we had close to 4,200 signatures on that petition," Byrne said. "That's over 80 percent of the on-campus population in a three-day period." 
The petition drive was sponsored by Student Government and carried out by the Hall Presidents' Council. 
In addition, Byrne said, he has received over 50 letters from parents "all in favor of change which will give families the chance to share the Thanksgiving holiday." 
Byrne noted that the letters 
(continued on page ll) 


ND Center to study clemency program 
by Terry Keeney Editor-in-Chief 
The Notre Dame Center for Civil Rights, funded by a $225,000 grant from the Ford Foundation, will study the American system of selec­tive service, military justice and clemency. 
The year-long study, announced Dec. 16 by University President Fr. Theodore Hesburgh, a member of the Clemency Board, will examine the effect of President Ford's amnesty program and make recom­mendations for future clemency policy. 
The study will be conducted from the Washington, D.C., office of Center for Civil Rights by a three-member team of former Clemency Board personnel, headed by Lawrence M. Baskir, general Council and staff director of the Board. 
A six-member advisory group, including Hesburgh and U.S. Senator Charles Mathias <R-Md.), will oversee the study. . The stu~y. scheduled to be completed shortly after the presidential maugurat10n next year, may provide a blue print for further amnesty for Vietnam war resisters, Hesburgh said. 
"If this study is well done and well documented, it would give a ready-I!'a~e program for any president to act upon," Hesburgh said. 
Baskir Cited the purpose of the study as a spur to action. "What we hope to do is to write a persuasive book in a persuasive way which will lay the ground work for some action." 
Amnesty a dead issue 
Alt~ough amnesty is virtually a dead political issue during this election year, both Hesburgh and Baskir noted that additional more liberal amnesty programs may yet be adopted. ' 
"The history of amnesty shows that very little is done immediately after the war," Hesburgh said. 
President Ford's clemency program which attracted about 20 per cent of those eligible, expired with the end of the Clemency Board mandate on Sept. 15. 
"There's not likely to be anything done about amnesty during the course of the next year," according to Baskir. Baskir hopes current "divisive emotionalism" toward amnesty will eventually subside to make amnesty politically feasible. 
"The further away you get, the better attitude the public is likely to take," he said. 
~.esbur.gh .noted that the study wi~l examine all aspects of the military JUstice system. He said Selective Service during the Vietnam War tended to draft a high proportion of individuals of low income and low intelligence-"the people who really fought the war," he said. 
History of amnesty 
The study will also place the Ford amnesty program in historical perspective dating back to the first amnesty program established by George Washington after the "Whiskey Rebellion." 
The Civil Rights Center now houses computer records of the 15 000 cases considered by the Clemency Board and over one million page~ of Board reports and Hesburgh's personal notes. 
The permanent staff includes Bask.ir; William Strauaa, associate general counsel for the Clemency Board; and Robert Quartel, staff analyst for the Board. Notre Dame law students may be hired as interns for the summer. 
The Advisory Group for the amnesty study is scheduled to meet at the Ford Foundation in New York on Jan. 28. Subeequent meetinas will be held at Notre Dame, Heaburgb said. 
the observer 

~--NewsBriefs----­
f 
International 
Britain advised to leave 
BUENOS AIRES, Argentina-The Foreign Minister said yesterday that "it would be advisable" for Britain to withdraw its am­bassador because of a dispute over ownership of the Falkland Islands in the South Atlantic. 
A British Embassy spokesman said, "The minister's com­munique is very clear. Our embassy has no reaction to state and any comment that should come from London." 
l===========National 
Dunlop resigns 
WASHINGTON--Secretary of Labor John T. Dunlop submitted his resignation to President Ford late Tuesday because he felt his effectiveness has been undermined when Ford reneged on a promise to sign a bill sought by organized labor. 
Set' story page 10 
Health care money proposed 
NEW YORK-President Ford will propose turning over perhaps $10 billion in federal funded health care programs to the states control, the New York Daily News said in its Wednesday edition. The newspaper quoted unnamed officials as saying the propos~l was tailored to meet the challenge of Ronald Reagan, who IS challenging Ford for the Republican presidential nomination. 
"They just want to have something down on paper to counter Reagan, and this is it," the official reportedly. 
Gunmen hijack bus 
CHICAGO-Five gunmen hijacked a Chicago Transit Authority bus and robbed passengers of $456 in cash. They also took jewelry and topcoats in the late Monday night robbery on the Madison Street line. 
Three suspects were arrested Tuesday, but none of the loot was recovered. 
Not so sweet 
WASHINGTON-No evidence was found that the artificial sweet­
cyclamate causes cancer in animals a government-appointed panel concluded yesterday. However, the scientists did not give the sugar substitute a totally clean bill of health. 
After a six-month review, the final report will be submitted to the Food and Drug Administration which must decide whether to lift the ban clamped on cyclamates in 1969 when question of whether it causes cancer was raised. 
Top songs nominated 
LOS ANGELES..The 18th annual Grammy Awards nominations spread across a wide spectrum of pop songs, contry ballads and show tunes. 
The most nominated were "Love Will Keep Us Together" and a country ballad "Rhinestone Cowboy" each nominated for three categories including record of the year and song of the year. The winners will be named in a television special February 28. 
--On Campus Today 
wednesday, january 14, 1976 
4:30p.m.-colloquium, "results and problems In the foundation of quantum mechanics" by prof. abner shlmony, dept. of physics and philosophy, boston u­niversity, sponsored by .physics department, room 118 nleuwland science hall. 
8 p.m. -basketball, ball state at notre dame In ace arena. 
Amendment closes doors 
INDIANAPOLIS CAP) -The a governmental unit than they Indiana House Judiciary Com-were about the public, com­mittee moved Tuesday to blunt mented Richard Cardwell, gen­lhe effects of a bill which would eral counsel for the Hoosier have insured that all govern-State Press Association ment meetings be opened to the <HSPA). "The amended bill public. will close all meetings not open 
In its original form, the so-by law and only allow public called open door bill, brought attendance at final-vote ses­
sions."

by Rep. Robert E. Hayes, D-
Columbus, would have man-He expressed surprise that dated that all state, county and the bill was amended. "I local governmental agencies thought this bill had-a-good make all meetings open. chance at passage in an elec-However' the committee ac-tion year because it was a good
public service." 

cepted an amendment proposed David McGee, executive vice-
by Rep. John J. Thomas, R­
"Brazil. which defines a meeting president of the Indiana Broad-as a "gathering of the govern-casters Association, said he ing body of a public agency for supported the original bill be­the purpose of taking final ac-cause it would have gone "a tion upon public business." long way toward restoring the 
faith of Hoosiers in their public
The committee also inserted agencies." language in the bill to exclude The tendency of govern­meetings of political parties mental bodies to go into and actions of the courts and frequent executive sessions· le~islature. which ban the public made the 
':'Th~Y . werf:! m~r~ . w~rri~d: ~rigiqalv~r.siQn's.pass.ag.e. nee.,. about die. e·~i>e of opetaMons 'Of-essaryf ire sai'd: · • · ··-' · ·· ·· :.~""'-·' .' 
Nureyev tickets on sale 
Tickets are now available at Saint Mary's for the film of "Don Quixote" starring world-famous dancer Rudolf Nuryev. The film will be presented at O'Laughlin Auditorium for four showings on Sunday, Feb. 1, and admission for these special performances is only one dollar. 
This will be the Northern Indiana Premiere of this work, featuring Nuryev, Robert Helpmann, Lucette Aldous and the Australian Ballet. 
The film is being presented by Century Center, in co-()peration with the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's Theatre, Southhold Dance Theatre 
Students to lobby 
for House bill 
(continued from page l) 
According to Black, the effect of the election year is even more significant since in the last election the 18-20 year-()ld voter turnout was poor. Therefore the legislators don't consider this age­group as an important con­stituency, Black commented. 
Tonight, representatives . from Notre Dame and St. Mary's student governments will go to Indianapolis in an attempt to enlist further support for the bill's passage. Notre Dame is represented by Black, Ed Byrne, Jerry Klingenberger, Cress Hizer and several others. St. Mary's representatives are Joan McDermott and Mary Lou Bilek. 
"We're going down to convince the House members that the bill can and should be passed. I think we can get the necessary votes," Black concluded. 
Business dean elected to board of Vii ter firms 
Bro. Leo V. Ryan, dean of the Notre Dame College of Business Administration, has been elected to the boards of Vilter In­ternational and Vilter Dales and Construction Company of Milwaukee. 
Both firms are wholly owned subsidiaries of Vilter Manufac­turing Corporation, manufac­tureres of industrial refrigeration, heat exchange and air conditioning products. Ryan joined the board of the parentcorporation January. 
In May 1975 the Vilter Foun­dation announced a $3,000 grant to Notre Dame honoring Ryan. The grant supports college develop­ments in the study of values m business, business ethics, and corporate social responsibiblity. 
( *the obseruer 
Night Editor: Marti Hogan Assistant Night Editor: Debbie Dahrllng Layout Staff: Denise Per. 
singer, Linda Barkley,
Mercedes Weber, Mary Ann Fuchs, John Culcutt, AI 

Rutherford, Maureen Flynn • pp ICC IOns are elng
Day Editor: Jim Commyn e e Copy Reader: Ken Bradford • 
~::::;es~iiT~~~~~Nen : accepted for position of : 
Typists: Karen Chiames, Mel  •  
Celeste, Howard Halle  e  
~~~~!~graphic:  Morey  :  
Night  Controller:  Martha  e  
Fanning::,~~re  screener:  Chris  • •  

lAd Layout: Joe Gralf •
~---------...tl) ••• 
~------: 
The Ob~erver i~ publi~hed Monday 
through Friday and weekly during 
:~:~;an;:~r ~!~!i,~~~ e;~:i~~~ur;~~ 
Ob~erver ·~ published by the 
~~!e;t~!l~, ~~e ~;:~./~o~:~e
Subscriptions may be purchased lor 10 dollars. per semester 118 dollar~ per year) from The Ob · ~erver', Box Q.Ni)ire Dame, In 

diana, 46556. Seton(! C.111ss postage •• .Daic.1_;~C!'~~-oa·~e·... 1:N '46556 .;-• • · · 



I 
~ir Richard's 
BARBER STYLING 


~~~~~~-------­
UNISEX HAIR STYLING 
129 DIXIEWAY SOUTH ROSEtAND IN PORTAGE WLn BUILDING 277..o734 

:•• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • e e e e e e 
e A 1• t• b • •
: 

It 
41 • 
e 
: 
• 

fi • 
.• 
and many area dance groups. It has never been released com­mercially and has been limited to private selected angagements. 
Rave reviews have greeted it everywhere it has been shown. 
In addition to the screenings on Feb. 1, there will also be a special Patron's Preview on Saturday evening, Jan. 31. The event is a Benefit Performance for the Century Center Dance Program Fund, and is being chaired by Honorary Co-Chairmen Fr. Theodore Hesburgh, Dr. John Duggan and Dr. Lester Wolfson, from Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and IUSB respectively. 
Donations to this fund will go to increase the number and variety of dance events that can be made available to dance enthusiasts in the Michiana area. 
The story of Don -Quixote is familiar to most people, especially since the success of the Broadway musical Man of La Mancha. The story of the ballet concentrates as much on the love affair of two young lovers <Rudolf Nureyev and Lucette Aldous) as it does on the 
adventures of Don Quixote and Sancho (Robert Helpmann and Ray Powell). 
It is a ballet with which Nureyev is deeply at home. He danced the ballet with the Leningrad-Kirov Bal 
let in Russia, and re-staged it for the Vienna State Opera. In 1970 he staged it again for the Australian Ballet, and it is essentially this _ version that has been captured on film. 
For the film, however, many superflous details and miming scenes were eliminated, new costumes and sets were designed especially for this production, and the most advanced camera techniques were used to enhance the action in transferring this classic from the stage to the screen. 
Reservations fro the Patron's Preview and Champagne Supper, and further information about the production may be obtained by calling 284-4176 or 289-5548. Per­formance on Saturday will begin at 
8:30 p.m. and screenings on Sunday will be at 1, 3:30, 6, and 8:30p.m. 
Donovan chosen to serve on advisory committee 
U.S. Secretary of State Henry A. Kissinger has chosen David G. Donovan, an administrative assistant at the Notre Dame Memorial Library for the Government Advisory Committee on International Book and Library Programs. 
Donovan, a member of the Notre Dame staff since 1972, will assume new duties as associate director of Notre Dame's libraries Jan. 16. 
Kissinger said the advisory group, founded 13 years ago, has made a genuine contribution to increasing the free flow of books between the U.S. and other countries. He added his hope that Donovan's "extensive experience in library development overseas" would be a significant addition to the committee. 
Only two of the 12 members of the committee appointed to three­year terms by the secretary of state are librarians. One is an educator and nine are publishers representing the different bran­ches of the industry. Present chairman is Leo Albert, chairman of the board of Prentice-Hall In­ternational, Inc. 
Donovan received an un­dergraduate degree in German literature at Boston University and a master's degree in library science at Simmons College, Boston. Before coming to Notre Dame as assistant director for administration, he served as director of international relations for the American Library Association, as field director in Pakistan for the Library of Congress and c.s director of library services for the U.S. Information Servicein India. He has also had extensive experience as librarian for General Electric Co. and various government agencies. 

ARCHITECTURAL & 
MODEL SUPPLIES STRUCTURAL SHAPES BALSA WOOD 
~o/J
HOBBY SHOP IIC. 713 NORTH MAIN ST. 
MISHAWAKA, IND. 
46544 
PHONE 255·8111 
• 


Observer : • d •• 
NeWS E ifor : : Apply in person : t Th ob ff• G a e Server 0 ICe :
h d 

t ir f1oar of LaFortune ••e 
•

O d
Dea' 1ine· I • 5 p m • Fr·l ay •
• 

e·~--. .. -. · ·.. ·• · · · • 
-. ....::._ . ...___ -~-... -=---­
-:---~~· --­
--.,.._ I. ­
·f--•-­


Bartholomew, retired professors deceased 1, 
ff

the observer ·::-3 'I 1 
j 
j 

Willis D. Nutting, 75, professor emeritus in the general program of liberal studies at Notre Dame, died on Dec. 7. Services were Dec. 9 in Christ the King Catholic Chuch and burial was in S. Joseph Valley Memorial Park. 
Nutting retirt:§tiromNotre Dame in 1970 but continued teaching at St.Marv'sCollege and the Forever Learning Institute. He had authored several books and served on the Indiana Rhodes scholarship selection committee. 
He graduated from the Universi­ty of Iowa in 1921 and studies for three years in Oxford, England, as a Rhodes Scholar. He joined the Nore Dame faculty in 1936 as a history teacher. 
No,lJJding is survived by his widow, two ons, a daughter, six grand­children, a brother and a sister. 
Ir.S?!l~;. the Notre Dame general program established an annual award in Nutting's honor. The award is given to a graduating senior who has contributed the most to the education of his peers. 
SLC agenda includes Honesty Policy. plans for new 'official' library lounge 
by Mark Hutton Starr Reporter 
Discussion of the Academic Honesty Policy dominated discussion at the Dec. 9 meeting of the Student Life Council. The Honesty Policy of the University of Notre Dame, usually referred to as the Honor Code, was adopted by 
the  Academic  Council  last Feo­ 
ruaty.  
The  SLC  members  were  in  

general agreement that the Honor Code is being disregarded by many students at Notre Dame and that it is time to reacquaint students and faculty with the provisions of the Honesty Policy. Ed Byrne ex­plained that he will ask Fr. Hesburgh to write a cove letter on the policy and that the letter be distributed campus-wide. 
Several ad hoc committees gave 
Crucial Vote today or tomorrow, letters and telegrams needed! Support House Bill 1104 lowering drinking age to 19. Send telegrams Now to House Reps. at Indiana State House, Indianapolis 46204 OR... Call Republican Toll FREE number 1-800-382-5599 or Democratic Toll FREE number 1-800-382-9966 and leave a message of support. Your call may be the one that does it. P.S. To get names of representatives call 7668. 
problems on the campus. 
"The SLC plans to work with University officials in developing an 'official' lounge on the second floor of the library," Byrne ex­plained."· The major task before the :SLC is soundproofing the lobby to allow other students to study in quiet surroundings." 
Byrne also mentioned the problems thatt are occurring with vandalism and misplacement of library volumes. 
Rev. John DiPietro reported that the planning and policy \!Ommittee will be ready to dist~ibute questio~naires. con­cernmg coe<.a nousmg to 1,000 students this month. The com­mittee has been researching coed housing in other colleges in the United States and is in the process of compiling data on the subject. 
Concerning the calendar for the 
Paul C. Bartholomew, professor of government and international studies at Notre Dame since 1930, died on Dec. 24 after an illness of several months. He was 68. 
Services were in Sacred Heart Church on Dec. 28 and burial was in Cedar Grove Cemetery. 
Bartholomew was the author of several books on public ad­ministration and the judicial system and a local history of St. Joseph, Elkhart, LaPorte and Marshall counties. He had held several visiting professorships at Northwestern, Michigan State, the University of Chicago Texas and the National University of Ireland in Dublin. 
A specialist in American government, he had served as special consultant to local, state and the federal government. 




Ford appoints Morton as advisor 
WASHINGTON  <APl  - Pres­ 
ident  Ford  has  named  Com­ 
merce  Secretary  Rogers  C. B.  

Morton to a White House advi­sory job described as including incidental political duties. 
Morton's main duties will be as counselor to the President on economic and domestic pol­icy, White House press secre­tary Ron Nessen said Tuesday in announcing the appointment to the position at a $44,600 a year salary. 
Morton, 61, was chairman of the Republican National Com­mittee in 1969-71. There had been reports that he would be­come a chief political adviser for Ford's campaign this year. 
Nessen told reporters that Morton would have "incidental duties as liaison with the Presi­dent Ford Committee and the Republican National Com­mittee." 
In 1964 he was appointed vice oarliamentarian for the 
.V' 

.,tRepublican National Convention and served as a consultant to the Republican National Committee in reorganization in 1961. He was also the founder and adviser of the Mock Political Convention at Notre Dame. 
Born on July 15, 1907, in Salem, Ohio, he received his bachelor's degree from Notre Dame in 1929. He held a master's degree from Notre Dame and a doctorate degree from the University of Kentucky. He also did graduate work at Northwestern. 
Bartholomew is survived by his widow, two sons and four grand­children. Memorial contributions may be made to the University of Nore Dame scholarship fund in Bartholomew's name. 
Bartholomew 

Nessen emphasized that How­ard B. Callaway will continue to run Ford's · election cam­paign and that Callaway has the President's "full confidence and support." 
Morton was recruited, ac­cording to Nessen, because the President wanted to avail him­self of Morton's expertise on domestic and economic policy as a former congressman and secretary of both the Interior and Commerce departments. 
These two policy areas would be Morton's "substantive duties" Nessen said. 
Morton, however, will be able to relieve Ford's chief of staff Richard Cheney and Robert Hartmann, who heads the speech writing staff, of their day-to-day political duties. Along with Morton, they will 
1976-1977 school year, the SLC passed a resolution for a letter to be sent to the Academic Council requesting the council to recon­sider its position on the calendar. The SLC wants to allow for the Friday during the traditional Thanksgiving weekend to be in­cluded in the vacation period. 
Byrne stated that "the first order of business for the SLC in the second semester would be for the ad hoc committees that have been organized to report to the council so that the SLC can take action to relieve the problems." 
The next meeting of the SLC will be on Jan. 27 at 4:30, in room 120, Hayes-Healy building. 
i===========;=======:=~~=:=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=====;=;=====:=:=~=~=~=:=~==============~=:=================3:'t:·~:::::-t=~;~£-=-=·='=!'!IIJ=-M-~1 
•.... I.... 
I R VIe I W 
I APARTMENTsl 
INOW RENTING FOR SECOND SEMESTER!!I 
:!l~-FULL Y FURNISHED ONE AND TWO BEDROOM A~TS~~ @:-SPECIAL 5 MONTH LEASES ARE AVAILABLE ll~l :~l-INDOOR POOL WILL BE COMPLETED SOON :lll. 
I-NEW SECURITY LOCKS HAVE BEEN INSTALLED 
I2-NIGHTIME SECURITY GUARD ON DUTY \~%. g-24 HR. MAINTENANCE I 
~Ailt~EWW~ 
still be available as political advisers, Nessen said. 
Reporters hit Nessen with a barrage of questions about the new job. 
Nessen replied that Ford wanted Morton's advice in the economic and domestic areas and that Morton will retain his membership on the Economic Policy Board, the Energy Re­sources Council and the Domes­tic Council. He held these posts as commerce secretary. 
Nessen said that "Morton and everybody else at the White House is going to follow the let­ter and spirit of the federal election regulations" that re-



BOOK BARN 
~~ NEW and OLD 
IN THE NEW GEORGETOWN CENTER Just off Cleveland. Turn left at the Georgetown Sign at Emmons Road. 272-5520 


81. Geaeral Ston -CLOTHING­UI.......St. 
Hugh P. O'Brien, 67, a retired Notre Dame sociology professor, died Jan. 5 after an extended illness. Services were in Sacred 
.Heart Church and burial was in St. 
Joseph Valley Memorial Park on 
Jan. 8. 
O'Brien, a penology ex~rt •. served as director of the Indiana Corrections Commission from 1953 to 1957. He served on several clemency boards and worked with educational systems within various state penal institutions. 
He was a 1930graduate of St. Michael's College in Vermont and received his master's degree from Notre Dame in 1933. 
O'Brien is survived by two sons, two daughters, 13 grandchildrenand a sister. 
quire a candidate's· campaign organization's to pay for all po­litical activities. 
Nessen said the White House staff has been cut down from a level of 547 when Ford took over to the President's goal of 485. 
Morton will take over his new job later this week, occupying a recently refurbished Executive Office Building suite that Presi­dent Richard M. Nixon used as his private workinJ{ office. 
Morton's commerce job will be filed temporarily by a depu­ty, Nessen said, until his suc­cessor, Elliot L. Richardson, can take over. 
Supreme Court rules against gun buying 
WASHINGTON <AP) -For­held tht conviction of a former mer convicts and other poten­convict who bought a revolver tially dangerous persons violate at a Booneville, Ky., store in 
a federal law whenever they 1967. Police found the weapon buy a gun received from an on the floorboard of his car a out-of-state supplier, the Su­few hours after they arrested preme Court ruled Tuesday. him for drunken driving. 
By a 6-2 vote, the court up-The ex-convict, Pearl Bar-
To comptroller 

Baumer promoted 
Fred H. Baumer, Jr., assistant comptroller Notre Dame since 1967, has been named comptroller of the University, Fr. Jerome J. Wilson, vice president for business affairs has announced. 
Baumer succeeds .ttlctlard M. Lynch, who came to the University in 1964 and has been comptroller for the last nine years. Wilson said Lynch resigned his position, ef­fective Dec. 15, in order to return 
Art exhibit opens Thursday 
by Phil Cackley 
•Staff Reporter 
The Art Gallery will continue its bicentennial celebration Thursday with the opening of an exhibit of American art from the permanent collection. 
Dr. Dean Porter, director of the Art Gallery, said the showing will include such prominentAmerican artists as Thomas Eakins, John Marin, and John Sloan as well as such well-known contemporary artists as Larry Rivers and photographer Ansell Adams. 
The exhibit contains pieces from the permanent collection, but close to 30 percent of the objects have never been shown at Notre Dame before, Porter said. Many of the new items are among the 600 pieces acquired by the gallery in the last year. Some 70 percent of these are by American artists. 

A large percentage of the new acquisitions are photographs, which Porter called the fastest developing American art today. The eXhibit will include a major section on photography. 
The exhibit replaces the Victor Higgins show which will be shown in March at the Indianapolis Museum of Art. 
The American art show has taken the place of a Photorealism show from the Nancy Hoffman Gallery which has been rescheduled for November. Porter said this was partly due to difficulties in printing an explanatory catalogue for the exhibit. 
Another major show entitled "The 

University of Notre Dame: Its History in Art and Photographs" will open January 25. Included in the show will be paintings and sculpture, butr the focal point of the extlibit wiH 'be 104 photographs portraying the history of Notre 
Dame, Porter stated. 
The exhibit will coincide with the 
release of Dr. Thomas Schlereth's 
The University :of Notre Dame: A 
Portrait of Its 'History and Cam­
pus. The book is being published 
by the Notre Dame Press and will 
be released in early February. 
Now showing in the East Gallery 
is a photography iexhibit by Walker 
Evans. Porter called these 
"classic photographs" which 
portray life in America from all 
walks of life." 
The Art Gallery is celebrating the bicentennial with a "commitment to an American year," Porter explained. "We're giving our European collection a rest this year." 
The gallery will continue this "commitment" throughout the year with exhibits or art by Thomas Marin, a student exhibit, and an "Art in Indiana" show among others. 
The shows will feature styles of art and different media besides sculpture and painting; Porter stated. The Art in Indiana show will include decorative art such as q~iltwork and ironwork, h~ ~~ded. 
to full-time teaching in ac­countancy and related professional activities. 
Baumer, a native of Jacksonville, Fla., received his bachelor's degree in philosophy from Notre Dame in 1958 and, after two years at Holy Cross College in Washington, D.C., he entered the University of Florida at Gainesville and received his ac­counting degree in 1963.He bacame a certified public accountant the following year and workked for a Jacksonville accounting firm for three years before coming to Notre Dame in 1967. 
Lynch received his bachelor's degree and his M.B.A. from Marquette University and his doctorate in business ad­ministration from Harvard University in 1959. He is a certified pubilc accountant in three states and came to Notre Dame after teaching at Marquette and Boston College. 
Francis X. Beytagh, professor of law at Notre Dame, has been named dean of the University of Toledo College of Law, effective July ·1,1976. 
rett, was found guilty and sen­tenced to three years in prison. He was charged with violating a federal law making it a crime for specified categories of presumably dangerous indi­viduals to receive any firearm or ammunition which has moved across a state line. 
In appealing his conviction, Barrett argued that the federal law did not apply to him be­cause he did not receive the gun directly through interstate channels. The gun was manu­factured in Massachusetts and shipped to Booneville by a North Carolina distributor. 
Speaking through Justice Harry A. Blackmun, the court said this didn't make any dif­ference. 
"Congress did not intend merely to restrict interstate sales but sought broadly to keep firearms away from the persons Congress classified as 
Library raises overdue fines 
The Notre Dame library nas announced an increase in fines for overdue materials in the Reserve Book Room. 
Fines for two-hour and overnight materials will be 75 cents per hour. 
Fines for one-day and three-day materials will be one dollar per day. 
The increase is a ploy to combat a recent .rise in the number of materials that are not being returned on time, according to Antonie L. Baker, head of the College Library. 

MACRAME BEADS 
~ 

& SUPPLIES 
~ffj(fj~ 10% OFF WITH THIS AD TILL JAN 18TH.
§~AC;~. 

2340 miracle lane
town & country shopping center mishawaka, indiana 46544 
219 I 256-0111 
• 

potentially irresponsible and dangerous," Blackmun wrote. The law applies to convicted felons, persons under in­
dictment, tice, drug fectives.  fugitives from users and mental  jus­de­ 
Justice  Potter  Stewart,  dis­ 

senting for himself and Justice William H. Rehnquist, said the law prohibits only the receipt of firearms or ammunition "as part of an interstate transac­tion." 
In other decisions, the court: 
-Ruled 5 to 3 that the Inter­nal Revenue Service must issue a notice of deficiency before at­tempting to collect income taxes in midyear from persons it suspects may flee the coun­try or otherwise evade their taxes. Unless a deficiency no­tice is issued, the court said, the taxpayer can sue to prevent the IRS from collecting. 
-Ruled 8 to 0 that a corpo­ration cannot recover profits made by an investor in less than a six-month period unless the investor owned more than 10 per cent of the corporation before he bought the securities on which he made a profit. 
Unless he did, said the court, he was not in a position to prof­it from inside information, so the recovery law should not ap­ply. 
Justice John Paul Stevens did not take part in any of the deci­sions, since the cases were ar­gued before he became a mem­ber of the court on Dec. 19. 
• 'ti 'tl II) a:: 
5 ~ t Town & Country &? ::1 ~ Shopping Mall E .!! 
:r, 

~·
421 N. Hickory Rd. and Scottsdale Mall, S. Bend, Concord Mall, Elkhart 


QUALITY BRANDS 
JBC  MciNTOSH  
BIC  ELECTRO VOICE  
BOSE  TECHNIQUES  

REVOX H H SCOTT SONY KENWOOD UTAH PIONEER AVID TANDBERG 
Come You Fightin' Irish 

BOUNCE THE CARDINALS 
TO TOWN &COUNTRY ·FOR YOUR FAVORITE 




WINES-LIQUORS 
Both Stores Open Nights 'til 11 PM 

LIQUOR • WINE 

10% DISCOUNT WITH ND-SMC 1.0. BEER · BEST PRICE IN TOWN VOLUME DISCOUNT FREE DELIVERY 
TWO FREE LOCATIONS DELIVERY 
Wednesday, January 14, 1976 the observer

rmovies
Lucky Lady--great 
, ,

mou1e entertainment 
review by thomas o'neil 

Lucky Lady was the best entertainment film of 1975. Budegetted at an awesome $13 million and with a cast highlighted by 
Liza Minnelli, Gene Hackman, and Burt Reynolds, it provided the viewing public with professional movie craftmanship, and never a dull moment. 
The story of it is based in cliche melodrama: three unrelated losers from the Depression era meet on Rum Row and decide on a future in the romantic and rewarding business of bootlegging. The boat they use for rum-running is the "Lucky Lady" and it launches them into a spirited adventure which is eventually to include a confrontation with the Coast Guard, organized crime, the Treasury Department, the cruel sea, and each other. 
But this epic backdrop is also the essence of the film's excellence. Every adventure is a masterpiece of entertain ment juxtaposed with brilliant comedy and the emotional cobweb of the trio's menage a trois. And the movie is not a theater for the straining vocals of Liza Minnelli this time, or another shoddy sequel to the life of Fanny Brice as the title suggests. It is essentially a non-musical, dramatic-action film--the kind that was made in the old days when movies were a magic refuge of celluloid perfection, and the kind of film we 


recipes for the 
Baked Ham Slice 
Obtain a 2-inch thick (or thicker) slice of ham from a butcher. Spread one side with mustard. Sprinkle with salt and pepper. Dust with flour. Sprinkle with 1/J cup of sugar. Sprinkle with enough wine vinegar to moisten the sugar. Place ham slice, treated side down in a buttered baking dish. Treat the remaining side as above. Bake at 425° for 15 minutes. Add V. cup water to the baking dish. Reduce heat to 375o. Bake for \11 hour more, basting every 10 minutes. 
Easy Mb Chocolate Cake 
l 1/1 Cups Flour 
1 Cup Sugar 
3 TBSP Cocoa 
1 tsp Bicarbonate of Soda 
1 Pinch Salt 
Place ingredients in an 8 x 8 inch square pan, ungreased. Mix well with a fork. Add 6 TBSP Oil, 1 TBSP Vinegar and 1 tsp Vanilla. Pour 1 Cup of Water over all. Stir with fork until well blended. Bake at 350° for 25 minutes. 

have wondered for years whatever happen ed to. Lucky Lady is evidence that it's alive and well, and not since The Sting has such complete entertainment snuck out of Hollywood unscathed. 
Liza Minnelli is, however, too much like Sally Bowles for comfort, although she still proves to be both dynamic and moving while spouting such comic lines as "It's so 
quiet you could hear a fish fart." Gene Hackman is also Gene Hackman again, but nevertheless excellent throughout the film, a~d Burt Reynolds can finally be appre ctated on the screen. He falls over himself so often, and with such convincing lack of grace, you can be happy with this visual evidence that he is really the jerk and the fool you've guessed at for so long. 
The trio, of course, is immediately successful as rookies in the underground business of bootlegging, originally planned to be just a one-shot attempt at amassing small fortunes to fuel their life-styles. But trying to keep them down on the farm after their taste of honey seemed an impossible task for the film-makers. They try again and again and build up a small business w~ich ~hreatens the livelihood of organized crtme tn the area. After being squelched by the Big Boys they join with other 

independent smugglers and fight a romantic 
and ambitious sea war, the outcome of which caused several re-writings and re-~orkings in Hollywood. The original scrtpt called for the gruesome deaths of both Hackman and Reynolds, but things have since been modified according to the demands of Minnelli and Hackman. The outcome as it is now is more suitable to the story, and gives the movie added excite­
ment. 
You've heard the old cliches before, to "run, dance or just dash to see this one" in reference to popular movies of the day, and you can be thankful that it can still be said 
about something at the local bijou, because it does still apply. Get out and see Lucky Lady. It's showing at the Forum Theater on Route 31. 
o-c cauldron --chris smith 
Sally's Frosting 
1 Cup Brown Sugar 3 TBSP Water 
Boil at low heat until mixture forms a soft ball when a teaspoonful is dropped into a glass of cold water. Add 2 to 3 TBSP Butter. Stir well. Blend in 1 Cup Powdered Sugar. Stir until very smooth. 

Chili con Carne  
4  TBSP Butter  
4  Onions, chopped  
2  lbs  Lean Ground Beef  
2  cans  Tomato Paste (=12 oz.)  
2  cans  Stewed Tomatoes (=32 oz.)  
2  cans  Pinto Beans (=32 oz.)  
v.  tsp  Tabasco Sauce  
3  TBSP Chili Powder  
1  tsp  Salt  

114 tsp MSG 
Melt butter in a large saucepot. Add the onions and cook until very soft. Add the ground beef and cook over medium heat until lightly browned. Break up the ground beef as it cooks. Mix in the remaining ingredients. Cover and simmer over low heat for 1 hour, stirring occasionally. 

1 MALTED FALCON 
I Falcon, well-plucked (2 to 4 pounds) 10 Horlick's Malted Milk Balls 6 Cloves (or cloves ofgarlic, if preferred) ~ gal. Rubbing Alcohol (i.e., alcohol for rubbing) 
I qt. Creosote (for a dryer version, substitute kerosene) 
I cup Lime Juice, freshly-squeezed 2 gal. White Wine (I prefer Pouilly Fuisse) 

lA cup Brown Suger (or granu­lated, browned to taste) 6 tbsp. Anchovy Paste (not the sticky kind) 
I lb. Carrot Cake 4 Egg Whites 2 Cherry Tomatoes (scarce 
these days, but seek them out) 2 Cherries (scarce these days, but seek them out) Pinch Salt and Pepper (if necessary) 
. 
.' 

mOVIeS-------..... 
Maltese Falcon returns as 
The Black Bird 


As a result of the Bogart-cult which has 
mysteriously gathered about a select number of the idol's old films, Hollywood has performed an insacred act to cash in on The Maltese Falcon. It has sponsored and released The Black Bird, a comic sequel to the original, dealing with more underworld antics to retrieve the historic a&tifact, but this time from Sam Spade Jr. 
As a sequel-spoof, the movie is first­class. George Segal is Sam Spade Jr., the bumbling and incompetent off-spring of the elder sleuth for whom nothing can apparently go right in either love or war. He has kept the defunct bird in a back-room filing cabinet for years and once he discovers that the bird is, after all, authentic, he proves to be less of the detective his father was when the skull­duggery begins. Like most situation comedies, however, and in the tradition of Inspector Clouseau, he bumbles his way to a successful re-possession of it only to lose it in the end. 
But the film's greatest shortcoming is some of its comedy. During the last few minutes of the movie, for instance, during Segal's loss of the coveted bird, its failure is more apparent than anywhere else. Hollywood must have thought it a tremend ously funny idea, after all the absurd and outlandish occurances throughout the mov ie, to have the falcon ultimately end up in the belly of a shark . Indeed, the simple idea of it is a funny one, but it's something which causes more grunts and groans throughout the theater than genuine laughter. 
Yet the movie, however, is not a failure. Despite those occasional comic failures, it is still "outrageously" funny in parts and an execellent parody-sequel ov$'all. All the old detective-film stereotypes are 
brilliantly represented and made perfect fun of. Even two of the actors ·from· the 

reuiew by thomas o'neil 
of its filming. Lee Patrick, who played Bogart's secretary in the original is back again as Segal's secretary (albeit a bit on the heavier side and less sympathetic and loyal to the younger Spade); and Elisha Cook Jr. as the dumb gangster with a nervous trigger-finger who defects to 

George Segal portrays Sam Spade Jr. In The Black Bird 
Spade's side after he falls for the obese and foul-mouthed Patrick. 
The other minor roles are equally well-acted. Stephanie Audran, a European actress of international fame plays the s~ductive member of the opposition who tnes to lure the falcon away from Segal via her base charms. Felix Silla, a midget who gives a Chaplinesque parody of Hitler, leads a small army of gross Hawaiians in his attempt to possess the historically valuable bird, and so on. Even Segal has a few moments of comic brilliance, looking and acting more like Dick Van Dyke than Humphrey Bogart. 
Overall, the movie is successful light­entertainment, good for a few sustainable laughs on a Saturday night and a must for the Maltese Falcon-fans who still wonder at whatever became of the quasi-vulture­turned-victim. The only truly disturbing thing about the whole thing is the possible return of yet another sequel, and one which 

will, undoubtedly, be progressively inferior original cast have returned ~or the·accas'iori • · 'to its parent. 

_.--ro-------------~----~ 
ff 
1~6 the observer Wednesday, Jan~•rv 14, 1976 
! 
SANSUI 441 Complete System ... HALF PRICE!! 
Separately $399.95 A giant system value! Featuring the best-buy Sansui 441 Stereo FM/AM Receiver, with power, features and performance that leaves virtually nothing to be desired; two all-new JF-6B 6-inch acoustic suspension bookshelf speaker systems for incredibly accurate reproduction, great bass response from a compact 
enclosure; BSR 2260 complete Changer package complete with base, dust cover and cartridge. 




SJ99 

WE'VE GOT THE GREATEST NAMES IN AUDIO!! MARANTZ SONY S.A.E. PHASE LINEAR SOUNDCRAFTSMAN PIONEER SANSUI PROJECT/one BIC TURNTABLES DUAL BSR GARRARD EMPIRE STANTON SHURE ALTEC THORENS AUDIO TECHNICA AR E/V INTERFACE EPI EPICURE UTAH CERWIN-VEGA BIC VENTURI AKAI DOKORDER SUPERSCOPE TEAC HITACHI WOLLENSAK MUSIC TAPE MAXELL 
SHERWOOD's SEL-400 Amplifier With Dynaquad 
••••••• !· 

A beautifully designed inte­grated amplifier with plenty of low-distortion power, tons of control features PLUS built­in Dynaquad 4-channel syn­thesizer for use with most stereo records-without changing cartridge or elec­tronics. 
Was $399.95 

PROJECTIone TEN-INCH System-50°/o 011! 
Featuring the ALL-NEW Project/one Mark IIA Stereo FM/AM Receiver with 20 watts per channel. 20 to 20 kHz at 0.6% distor­
Separately $599.88 tion, both channels driven-plus features galore! Two JF-lOA 10" Acoustic Suspen­sion Speaker Systems for natural repro­duction plus a complete BSR 2260 complete Changer package.


$299 
r PLAYBACK'S " FAMOUS WARRANTY 
Full 3-Year Warranty On Hi-Fi Systems Plus Additional Limited Warranty! 30-Day 

Hi-Fi Component E"C-

SONY's Brilliant T A -1150 

change Policy! On

Was $280

Another great integrated amp, with


$288 
Year Speaker Syste~

all the features and performance 
you've come to expect from Sony. A 
Exchange Policy! 
giant buy! 

$219 

' 
~ednesday, January 14, 1976 the observer 
l
7 

~ 
It's Gonna Be aLong, Cold Winter-So Here's Some Absolutely Choice Stereo Gear to Cuddle 

UpWith at Heart-Warming Prices! 
A ONCE IN A LIFETIME CARTRIDGE OFFER! 
PIONEER PC-01 
Bi-radial. wide response stereo and 4-channel Cartridge.
SPEAKER PROJECTI one . . . 
-with purchase of any advertised
SPECTACULAR! the Turntable Leader! 
-....!.~!ltar~}:er; $Jft76 
DYNACO A-25 PROJECTI one's Direct Drive.~----------...1 Fair-traded Y 
1

Big buy on the most A fabulous price on a professional \al $69.95 
critically acclaimed quality Direct Drive Manual turntable. 
bookshelf speaker It outperforms 'tables costing twice its .. 
system. A must hear! price. And, for a 
limited time, priced Reg. $199 Was $92.50 under $170. 


SJ69 \ 

$59 

CS-R300 
really 
you 

gorgeous 
PROJECTI one PROJECTI one
yling. 
DR-Ill DR-I 
Semi-manual turn· Just about the finest A high performance
Was $119 
table with belt­semi-manual turn­manual tu1ntable drive, base, dust table on the market, that providt·s out­cover and, if you belt-driven plus standing perform­act now, a super base and dust ance--without the price! cover and intro· frills. An all-out best 
$69 
Reg. $179 ductory buy!
Reg. $139

/one's 12" 
price!

$149 Beg.$88$99

SJJ9 

Reg. $159 THREE CASSETTE BLOCKBUSTERS 
$99 SH.IlRP Stereo Dolby Cassette Deck-RT-480 Big Price on 
-~''' ' 
• v.-..~~'

Deluxe Portable Casselle ..\\.;' 
re• """ ........---­
\4 *'" ~· . "..:,._ ~·· 
.__.__... ~--­

Save $100 on a AC/DC Sony Front-Load! 
portable A truly high-perform·
695 Deluxe Changer Fabulous! Sony's TC-203SD
cassette re­
ance 4-track, stereo cas­
outstanding Auto­corder has auto­Cassette Deck with F & F head Was $249.95
Re!J. $129.95 sette deck with Dolby,
table at its regular plus Dolby noise reduction
shut-off. much 
automatic program
the 695 comes with more! system. 
finder, 3-position tapedust cover plus el-selector, ferrite heads.
$79 Beg. $ft988 s:9j5 $249 $169 
l ADC cartridge. 
$39.95 ~ 


7 W. McKINLEY 
MISHAWAKA LLEGE SQUARE) 
ONE 256-1514 
T COME, 
FIRST SERVE ­

'. ,•, 

the observer Wednesday, January 14, 1976 
Dame Agatha dies, leaves secret fortune 
trustees for the benefit of her sole rights to "The Mousetrap," $3 million since the play opened the Orient Express" andLONDON (AP) -Agatha family. the 
world's longest-running in 1952. "Witness for the Prosecution."
Christie amassed an "astrono­
The principal heirs are likely Pritchard and his wife have
mical" fortune from her 85 
to include her husband, Sir three children : Alexandra 7,
books, 17 plays and various One of her agents, Miss Pat
Max Mallowan, 71, a prominent James 5, and Joanna 2, who
movie rights, the late mystery 
British archaeologist. He holds are believed to have trusts set ~ork, told the Daily Mail: "Itwriter's publisher said Tues­
day, but the exact amount re­the royalties for Miss Christie's up by their great-grandmother. IS all tremendously complicated mained a mystery. final novel, yet to be published Pritchard helps to manage the with royalties, trusts and what­and said to contain the demise family trusts. ever, and would tax the brains "The amount she has left is a of one of her greatest sleuths -of even Miss Marple and the 
deep secret and will remain so the sprightly and slightly dotty A spokesman for the publish­amazin5l Poirot."ing firm William Collins said
until her will is read," said a Miss Jane Marple. The trusts may have been setthat in the last years of her life
spokesman for her literary up to avoid Britain's heavy in-Dame Agatha was receiving
agent, Hughes Massie Ltd. Another crusty Christie char­heritance taxes, which range$200,000 a year from the pro-
A private funeral for Dame acter, the mustachioed Belgian up to 75 per cent for anythingAgatha, who died Monday at detective Hercule Poirot, died ceeds of her books and plays, more than $4 million. Only the
85, will be held Friday at Chol­in Dame Agatha's last pub-plus the lucrative film rights to first $30,000 of an estate is tax­sey Parish church near her classics such as "Murder on free.
country home in Wallingford, 55 lished book, "Curtain," -the miles west of London, a source rights of which are held by her 
close to the family said. only child, Mrs. Rosalind ~·~···························.-···:
_. WE CATER FOR * 
Hicks, also thought to be a Another mystery remaining principal beneficiary. VICTORY PARTIES
t ~ 
is the identity of Dame Dame Agatha's only grand­play, now in its 24th year on Agatha's heirs, although much child, Matthew Pritchard. 32, the London stage. Box office re­of her wealth was held by was favored long ago with the turns are estimated at nearly i KEG BEER : 
UAW supports Carter in Floridaf ~~uS:~cK) ~ as campaign gains momentum i 9 , 3~~1~~~~HT ~ 
The United Auto Workers is Wisconsin, -declaring it may with questions about the pro­~ * mounting an effort in Florida to take a miracle to save the free posal since he began his active support Democratic presiden­enterprise system. campaigning eight days ago. :cATERING FREE DELIVERY~ tial hopeful Jimmy Carter, who It was his first visit to Wis­And Ford's allies have seized :SPECIALLY . ~ needs a victory there to derail consin in an effort to secure on it as a major talking point -trTO THE (wuh $15.00 * Gov. George Wallace and pro­support in that state's April 6 in their campaign to head off 
:ND·SMC minimum purcbasell
pel his own candidacy. presidential preference pri­his challenge for the GOP nom­UAW President Leonard mary. ination. :COMMUNITY PHONE: 259·0261 ~ 
Woodcock will campaign for Reagan declared in a state-In other political activities: Carter in Florida, where the -Former Norh Carolina Gov. 
Reagan said he may have

UAW's political arm has en­Terry Sanford, hospitalized in 
made a mistake in the way he

dorsed the former Georgia gov­Salem, Mass., with chest pains
outlined his proposal in a Sept.

ernor in his showdown with while campaigning for the 
26 speech in Chicago. But he

Wallace, a union aide said Democratic presidential nomi­
defended the plan itself.

Tuesday in Detroit. nation, is doing fine and ex­
Asked whether the move ment that he stands behind his pects to be released by Wednes­symbolized support for Carter proposal for a $90-billion reduc­day, an aide said. Aide David or an attempt to head off Wal­tion in federal spending through Ethridge said Sanford probably 
lace in the South, the spokes­the transfer of major domestic will resume his campaign 
man said, "You will have to programs to the states, and in­schedule next weekend. He saic draw your own conclusions on tends to keep pushing it. there's no possibility Sanford Reagan has been barraged will pull out of the race.
that one ... it seems pretty evi­dent." He said the international 
5150,000 for sports
U A W has endorsed no candi­date. 

St. Mary's receives gilt
In Washington, President Ford appointed Rogers C.B. 

The Haggar Foundation of engaged in some kind of sports,"Morton as a White House coun­Dallas, Texas, has awarded St. Duggan noted.
selor, and a spokesman said he Mary's College a gift of $150,000 to "We've got varsity teams in six

will have "incidental" cam­

be used for the construction of the sports, including tennis, basketball paign duties. Morton has re­new sports and recreational and volleyball, plus an in­
signed as secretary of Com­

facility. tramural program," Dugganmerce. 
"This gift brings us much closer said. 
Morton said politics would to our goal of a recreational "With the new facility we'll be not dominate his duties, but de­sports facility," said John M. able to meet the continuing needs clared he would not stick his Duggan, President of St. Mary's. of our students as well as to expand 
head in the sand when campign Duggan pointed to the dramatic our sports program," he added. matters arose. rise in student interest in sports to explain the college's decision to The Haggar Foundation was 
Meanwhile, Ford's leading erect a new building. "In less than founded by J. M. and Rose Haggar opponent for the Republican five years, we've gone from having for the purpose of recognizing nomination, Ronald Reagan, no varsity teams to a point where worthwhile organizations, par­carried his presidential bid to over half of our student body is ticularly in the field of education. 
• 

To the Faculty and Students of the University of Notre Dame: 
On December 3, 1975, the undernamed committee was elected by the Academic Council, from the Council's elected members, to conduct the formal review of the Provost, mandated every five years by Article II, Section 1, o.f the Academic Manual. 
The Committee hereby Invites you to submit to It, In written form over your signature, any In­formation or assessment which you wish to provide and which you believe would assist It In the task of evaluating the stewardship of the Rev. James T. Burtchaell, C.S.C., as Provost. Such letters should be mailed to 
Provost Review Committee Box 744 Notre Dame, Indiana 46556, or should be personally handed to any Committee member, by February 2, 1976. The Committee will
• 
1 • 

maintain In complete confidence all communications which It receives. No copies will be made of 
• letters to the Committee, and the Committee's files will be destroyed after the completion of Its
• 1 
function. In Its report to the President, the Committee will not Include Information which would Identify the source unless It first receives permission from the source to do so. The Committee will disregard any unsigned communications which it might receive . 
The Committee expects to complete its enquiry and make its report to the President within the Spring 1976 semester, but will extend the duration of Its enquiry should this prove necessary. The Committee wll conduct confidential Interviews with persons whom it Judges would, by virtue of their positions, be able to provide information highly relevant to its enquiry. The Committee may also 
• 
invite further persons for interview on the basis of the written communications it receives.

• 
The Committee believes that the complete confidentiality of its proceedings Is essential to the 

• 
• 
successful execution of its task. Hence, Its members will Individually provide no information to any person concerning any activity of the Committee. The only communications will be those made by 


• 
the Committee as a whole.
•
• 

Gerald F. Jones Edward Manier James L. Massey (Chairman) Ernan McMullin 
0. Timothy O'Meara Robert M. Panoff 
~~~·························~·~-~~~.~~~~~-~ ... 


GENEI-----LizA-----·i~~~:~~~~~~~--1 
HACKMAN MINNELLI 


AT7:009:20 --SAT. AT 2:004:207:009:30--SUN. AT 1:454:.006:40 9:10 
""1'''"'1••1' 
N1• .. ~ ~" ~
HAROLD 

"A JOY!" 
'~ 'l<J• 1, ""' 
and 

RUTH GORDON 
-PG·

BUDCORT
MAUDE 

SPECIAL REDUCED PRICE! 
'learafter ~·ear,I semester after 
Tom McMahon 
semester, the 
Genera I Agent 
CollegeMaster from Fidelity Union Life has been the most accepted. most popular plan on campuses all 

Manny Avila 
oYerAmerica. 
Agent 


Find out why. 
Call the Fidelity Union Collt•gcMaster ~~ield Associate 
Karen Wentland 
myour area: 
Agent 
1 005 E. LaSalle South Bend. Ind. 
Phone 287-2327 
<~~ 
,,~ 
G )llc~ctVbstcr 
~ 
•••••• f,



WELCOME BACKIIII (Photo by Chris Smith) 
Banker's wife fatally shot after kidnapping, ransom 
GULFPORT, Miss. <AP) -A banker's kidnaped wife was found fatally shot in the back of the head Tuesday a few hours after her husband paid a $25,­000 ransom in a futile effort to buy her life, the FBI said. 
Dist.  Atty.  Albert  Necaise  
said  a  man  captured  in  Gulf­ 
port  a  few  hours after  the  ran­ 

som drop later led police to the body of Edwina Marter, 36. 
Mrs. Marter was found in a wooded area north of Gulfport. She was the wife of Charles W. Marter, vice president of Gulf National Bank here, and was the mother of two children. 
Coroner Edgar Little said it would take an autopsy exam­ination to determine with any accuracy whether she was slain before or after the ransom pay­off. 
"She had been dead several hours, but the pickup was made this morning and the arrest at about 3:30 this afternoon, so that's quite a time span," he 

ND professor wins prize 
for study of Catholic laity ~~~~i:.~ ~~:;;i~~~~~t~~~ ~~h~~ 
Notre Dame history professor Dr. Jay Patrick Dolan has won the John ~ilmary She~ Pri~e of. the Amer.lc~n Catholic H1stoncal Assocta~10n. The a~ard, ac­compamed by a cash g1ft of $300, 
was announced at the group's
annual meeting this week in Atlanta. Named in memory of the famous historian of American Catholicism 
and the. first winner of Notre Dame's prestigious Laetare Medal in 1883, the award is given each 
year to the ~meric~n or Canadian 
author who, m the JUdgment of the committee, has made the most 
original and significant con-
tribut~on to the histi.ography of the 
CathohcChurch durmg a 12-month 
period.
Dolan's latest book,Thelmmigrant 
Church: New York's Irish ana 
Ger'!lan Catholic~, 1815-1865 was 
publtshed early m the year by John Hop~ins University Pre.ss. The chatrman of the selection committe~ commended Dolan for approachmg the Church "from the ~tto~ up" that is, by st.udying the latty mstead of the he1rarchy or clergy. "Readable style" and
"lucid organization of his work," as well as the "interesting in­
formation he has to offer" were also cited in the presentation. 
The committee expressed hope that nolan's study would en­courage oth~r scholars "to pursue 
research m other areas of 
American Catholic history which 
are perhaps similarly neglected 
and similarly rewarding." 
••••••••••• Ill •• ,. •••••••• ·­
said. 

Necaise identified the prison­er as Richard Gerald Jordan,29, of Hattiesburg, Miss., an unem­ployed shipyard worker. He said Jordan was charged with murder. No other arrests were announced. 
Necaise would not comment on whether the ransom was re­covered. He said no weapon was found. 
Jordan was taken from a tax­icab in Gulfport by police who were checking everything that moved after losing their quarry in a hot pursuit. 
Marter had dropped off the package of money at a pre­arranged spot on Interstate 10 this morning. Necaise said offi­cers saw the money being picked up, but lost sight of the speeding auto during the chase. It was found abandoned in Gulfport after police broadcasts giving description and license number. 
Wednesday, January 14, 1976 the observer 
9 

Snow flurries hit Midwest 
by Valerie Zurblis Wire Editor 
Snow swirled across most of the Midwest yesterday, bringing storm warnings, slick roads and six inches of snow to the South Bend-Mishawaka area. 
Another inch of snow was ex­pected in light flurries overnight and the total snow depth by morning will be about one foot. 
A snow emergency was declared in St. Joseph County and cars were ordered off the streets to let the snowplows get through. The snow plow drivers, hindered by the poor visibility conditions, feared hitting parked cars. 
Also, at about 4:25 p.m. yesterday, Indiana Bell asked that phones be used for emergency calls only. Due to the hazardous weather conditions, more calls were being made, causing equipment difficulty. 
Heavy snow warnings were issued for part of Missouri, Michigan, Ohio, Illinois, Indiana and the mountains of Virginia and Maryland. 
Illinois police reported low visibility due to snow, rain, fog and drizzle and some highways were snow-packed and slippery. Some students said it took them five hours to travel from Chicago to Notre Dame. 
Schools reopen in Pittsburgh 
PITTSBURGH (AP> -Nine­
teen of the city's 104 strike­
bound schools opened Tuesday, 
but the teachers' union kept 
most of its members out of 
classes in defiance of a court 
order, drawing a fine for the 
second straight day. 
Allegheny County Judge Don­
ald Ziegler levied a $10,000 fine 
against the Pittsburgh Feder­
ation of Teachers for its contin­
ued contempt of court. The un­
ion was fined $25,000 Monday 
and its 4,400 members were or­
dered to pay $100 fines for each 
day the six-week-old walkout 
continues. 
The school district opened 19 
of its 104 schools on a limited 
schedule Tuesday, the first 
time students were in regular 
classes since the walkout began 
Dec. 1. 
Supt. Jerry Olson said 363 
teachers and 181 para­
professionals crossed picket 
lines to hold classes with the 
district's 62,000 students were A native of Bridgeport, Conn., in school. 
Dolan received his master's and While there has been some do~tora_I degr.ees and ..the recent movement toward agree­Umvers1ty of Ch1cago. He Jomed ment on salaries, money still the .N~tre. Dame .faculty .a~ a remains a major obstacle to spec1ahst 1~ Am«:r1can rehg10us settlement. The teachers who 
and urban h1story m 1971, and was ' _ 
named a fellow at the Shelby make between $8,700 and $16, Cullom Davis Center for Historical 700 .per year, .were at ~ast word Studies at Princeton Univeraity in askm~ . for. ra1ses .totalmg about 1973-1974. $6 mllhon m the f1rst year.
1.-••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••
;s d t u 11 J 




~ tu a n n11 on 
~ 
· 

• 
Book E 

• 
~ D D U (


;. __ . fr11 • :
;()UTSIDE STUDENT GOV,T OFFICE · • 
; 2ND FLOOR LAFORTUNE ; I STUDENT CENTER. : ; WED -SUN JANUARY 14 -18 I 1• 1pm -5pm I• • • SELLERS DROP OFF YOUR USED; • 
I • 
11

• BOOKS INCLUDING YOUR 
; ' ; 
• PRICES WEDNESDAY JANUARY ; 
: • • 
• 14, or THURSDAY JANUARY 15. • 
; WE'LL SELL THEM ; 
• :
L• FOR YOU AT NO COMMISSION. • • 
•••••••..•••••••••••••••••••-••••••••••••• 
t • 0 ( ~ • ~ • r I 

............... 
I h • g / « • 
1 
11 , 
& 
• : 

Also, t1ve persons were killed 
Tuesday in two seperate accidents 
on the ice-coated Indiana high­
ways, police said. 
Tomorrow the drifting snow will 
create difficult to hazardous 
driving in the area. It will be 
partly cloudy and cold in the af­
ternoon. Snow will fall from the 
central Appalachians through New 
England and it will rain along the 
southern New England coast. 
Showers will dampen the northern 
half of the Pacific Coast with snow 
over Idaho, Northern Utah and 
western Montana. 
Here is Tuesday afternoon 
weather in key cities across the 
nation: Atlanta 54 fog, Bismark 13 
clear, Boston 25 partly cloudy, 
Buffalo 33 cloudy, Charleston, S.C 
In Toledo 
65 paruy cloudy, Chicago 33 snow, Cincinnati 42 rain, Cleveland 35 cloudy, Denver 33 clear, Des Moines 32 cloudy, Detroit 31 snow, Fort Worth 60 clear, Indianapolis 
37  rain,  Kansas  City  37  cloudy,  
Knoxville 38 clear.  fog,  Los  Angeles  53  

Louisville 51 rain, Miami Beach 77 partly cloudy, Nashville 58 rain, New Orleans 70 cloudy, New York 39 partly cloudy, Philadelphia 42 partly cloudy, Phoenix 53 clear, Pittsburgh 36 cloudy, Richmond 51 partly cloudy, St. Louis 46 rain, St. Paul-Mpls. 17 cloudy,Salt Lake city 23 partly cloudy, San Diego 55 clear, San Francisco 44 partly cloudy, Seattle 37 cloudy. Washington 44 cloudy, Montreal 7 partly cloudy, Toronto 32 cloudy. 
Professor named dean 
Francis X. Beytagh, professor of Jaw at Notre Dame, has been named dean of the University of Toledo College of Law, effective July 1,1976. 
Beytagh, who will succeed the retiring dean, Karl Krastin, has had extensive experience in private law practice, government service and law teaching. He was graduated magna cum laude from Notre Dame in 1956 and at­tended the University of Michigan Law School, where he was editor­in-chief of the Michigan Law Review. He received a Juris Doctor from Michigan in 1963, finishing first in a class of 350. 
He has served as senior law clerk to the late Chief Justice Earl Warren and an an assistant to the solicitor general of the United States in the Justice Department under Thurgood Marshall and Erwin Griswold. 
Beytagh joined the Notre Dame faculty in 1970 and was director of the Law School's summer program in London, England, in 1973 and 1974. He has been a visiting professor at the University of Virginia Law School and last summer was acting director of legal services at the National Center for Law and the Han­dicapped. He is a member of several bar associations and other professional organizations, and he has written many articles published in legal journals. 
Fine German Food and Draft Beer f?_urSpecia

Hon.s 1nous 
2803 South Michigan Street-Phone 291 
German Foqd Our Specialty 
Created with Old World Atmosphere. Specializing in German and American Foods. 
• So11th Bend's Fi,_. Bllnquet Roonw Thll Alpine 8o Bllwarien Rooms 
Open 10:30 a.m. to 10:30 p.m.-Closed Sundays 1nd Holidays 

WELCOME BACK 
& GOOD LUCK ON A 
NEW SEMESTER 
THURSDAY NIGHT PITCHER OF BEER-$1.50 FRIDAY HAPPY HOUR FROM 3-7 
PITCHER  $1.50  
7 &7's  $.50  
ASK ABOUT  

OUR MONDAY, TUESDAY & WEDNESDAY SPECIAL. REMEMBER NICKlE'S FOR THE "LUNCH BUNCH" 
.........----_,.-------~ ~-~ -~­
DOONESBURY
Wednesday, January 14Hf76
10 the observ&r 

Marketing program trains women 
by Marti Hogan Assistant St. Mary's Editor 

St. Mary's College and the Bendix Corporation of South Bend are now working together to adequately prepare women for management positions in traditionally male-dominated fields. 
Four senior majors from St. Mary's Department of Business Administration and Economics participated last semester in a work-study program with the marketing department of the 
Bendix Corporation. 
The program. which was initiated last semester by Prof. James Filkins of St. Mary's and Jerry Lukas, Bendix group marketing director, began on a trial basis to give students "a chance to see the workinlls of a bill business," said Mary _GI!therine Wahl, one of the business students. 
The four students, Wahl, Sue McAnallen, Elizabeth Weigal and Casey Cannon, work two af­ternoons a week at Bendix for three credit hours. They began by tracing cost-requests systems. 
"The corporation was having a problem because the system was running too slowly," Wahl said, "so we made proposals on how to revise it. The task force which was also working on it accepted all our prooosals.
'l'ne students first toured the plant and worked in conjunction with the rest of the department on the first project. They are returning this semester and will work more independently on the market research study they are now conducting. 
"This project allows for more individual input," McAnallen said. "They told us what they want but 
ro the corporation. "We had some

Endowment expansion planned 
working knowledge when we 
(continued from page 1) 
University Priorities <COUP) reported that the endowment fund should be given top priority for all 
funds donated by friends.  alumni  and  
Past  fund  drives  have  been  

devoted primarily to the physical development of the campus. In Hesburgh's 23 years as University president, Notre Dame has spent over $82 million on campus con­struction projects. The campus building boom, which included the construction of dormitiories, the Memorial Library and facilities for classrooms and research, was made possible by the success of three ambitious capital campaigns which raised a total of over $150 million in the last three decades. 
But, with the beginning of the SUMMA drive in 1967, University concern for increasing the en­dowment fund became evident. Of SUMMA's $52 million goal, $20 million was projected for faculty development through endowed ch­airs and only $13.5 million was allocated for financing special programs .and new buildings. 
Since 1967, the University en­dowment--fund has climbed from less than $51 million to about $91 million. 
Notre Dame's emphasis on expanding its endowment comes at a time when many private colleges are encountering declining enrollments and are struggling to survive, according to Dr. James ­Frick, vice president for public relations and development. 
At the end of the Second World War, Frick said, half of all college students were enrolled in private institutions; recent statistics show private schools now enroll only about twenty per cent. The Brown­Minter Study has revealed that 27 per cent of all private colleges are in serious financial trouble. 
Private schools have responded to the increasing costs of education in two ways -tuition increases to meet immediate needs and capital campaigns to provide security·for the future. Annual tuition hikes of between $300 and $500 are not unusual at major private colleges, Frick said. 

In 1975, 105 private institutions were sponsoring capital cam­paigns with fund-raising goals of over $10 million. Thirteen schools ­set their goals at over $100 million. Thirteen scnools set their goals at over $100 million and Yale University had the highest goal set at $300 million. 
Notre Dame is not currently sponsoring a capital campaign because at the beginning of the SUMMA drive in 1967, University planners promised the alumni that another drive would not begin for at least ten years. Preliminary work is now being donP to in­vestigate the possibility of laun­ching another campaign after the ten-year limit passes in 1977. 
Notre Dame, unlike most private colleges, is no feeling the pinch from declining enrollments, Frick said. The University has volun­tarily limited enrollment to 6,600 undergraduates and application or admission greatly exceed openings in each freshman class. 
But Notre Dame cannot escape the inflation which has more than doubled education costs in the last ten years. 
Even with annual tuition hikes, student fees pay less and less of the University's expenses. In 1974, students paid $28.9 million in room, board and tuition-barely half the $57.3 million it cost to operate the University. The rest of the tab had to paid with alumni donations, endowment income and other outside revenue. 
According to Frick, the University's dependence on donors is no expected to diminish. "Given the spiraling costs of education and the determination of the Uni­ersity to keep costs to students at a minimum, Notre Dame will constantly need supplemental funds from outside sources," Frick noted. 
Notre Dame alumni annually contribute about $3 million to the University Alumni Fund through class contribution requests. This money is usually spent the year it is received and is not set aside for long-term development. 
Labor Secretary resigns 
when Ford 

WASHINGTON <AP) -Sec­retary of Labor John T. Dunlop submitted his resignation to President Ford late Tuesday, informed sources said, doing so because he felt his effective­ness had been undermined when Ford reneged on a prom­ise to sign a bill sought by or­ganized labor. 
The sources said the Presi­dent, in a private White House meeting, tried to talk Dunlop out of quitting. The secretary held firm in his decision to re­sign, but said he would remain 

renegs 
in his post until Jan. 31. 

The formal announcement of the resignation was expected Wednesday. 
White House officials con­firmed only that Ford and Dun­lop met for 35 minutes, but they refused to provide details. 
Press Secretary Ron Nessen, under questioning by reporters, acknowledged in early evening that Dunlop had asked to meet with Ford. 
"It was a private meeting. I can't say anything more," Nes­sen said. 
AUDITIONS for
~NO ARTHUR MILLER'S
SMC THE CRUCIBLE 
THE AT RE Sun., Jan 18 at 1:30P.M. and Mon., Jan 19 at 7:30 P.M. (callbacks -Tues., Jan 20 at 7:30 P.M.) 
O'LAUGHLIN AUDITORIUM OPEN TO ALL ND/SMC STUDENTS 
it's pretty much open to wnat we want to do." 
For this project, the students will study the market for potential customers on a new product line and determine how Bendix can increase its sales. 
"The second project will be beneficial to the corporation because they really need it done but they don't have the time," Wahl said. "We don't do busy work. Our work is something that the corporation can really use." 
Both McAnallen and Wahl feel that this experience has been beneficial to themselves as well as 

went," said McAnallen, "but in classes the situations are Obtaining funds to finance hypothetical, and now we're really
University development · getting into it.". programs-like the endowed professorships-requires an extra Lukas is optimistic about the effort by fund-raisers, Frick said. future of the program. ".We got a "Where state universities can get lot of valuable work out of these their development funds by getting four students and they got some 
larger appropriations from the experience that you just can't get state legislatures, private schools in a classroom," he said. 
can only hope for more con­"It's safe to say that Bendix will tributions from private sources," continue an intern "d'a"a"m with 
St. Mary's," Lukasa~~!~..:,
he added. 


Anti-Horse Thiel Society now protects tractors 
BENTONVILLE, Ohio <AP)­The 123-year-old Anti-Horse Thief Society of Adams County ain't what it used to be. 
"They rode the counties look­ing for horse thieves," recalls Sherman Beam, who has been a member of the group for about 45 years. "When they couldn't do that anymore, they donated and bought things, just like they bought the first set of electric lights for Bentonville. 
"But now, we don't do much of anything except get together at the banquets to eat." 
The banquets however draw quite a crowd. As many as 200 persons usually attend the group's annual gathering, while the coffers have swollen to $1,­
040 in  the  Adams  County  Sav­ 
ings and Loan.  
"We  don't  do  much  any­ 

more," says Beam. "Most of the members are farmers, and the majority of them have passed away. 
"We were in the notion of dis­banding once, but we gave up on the idea when a woman who loved horses came to our meet­ing and told us to stay togeth­er." 
Beam, a local farmer, now reports that his fellow club members worry more about tractor and farm equipment thefts than they do horse thefts. That's because most of the lo­cal farmers don't keep horses anymore. 
When the group was formed in 1853, there was a real need to protect the horses on the Ohio River area farmers. 
"In those days; stealing a person's horse meant some­thing pretty serious," Beam says. :·when they caught you, they e1ther gave you a necktie party, a long prison sentence or a stiff fine. 
Blood donors asked to help 

Members of the Notre Dame-St. 
Mary's community have been 
asked to donate blood to the St. 
Joseph County Blood Bank to 
replace the 15 pints per day 
required by the victim of an e 
explosion.. 

John Nowicki, 22, injured last 
week in an explosion and fire at 
Elkhart Acra Pac, Inc., remains 
hospitalized at the Burns Center at 
St. Joseph Hospital in Fort Wayne. 
Potential donors are asked to 
contact the St. Joseph's County 
Blood Bank at 234-0191 for an 
appointment. The Blood Bank is 
open Monday through Friday 9­
11:15 a.m. and from 1-4 p.m. 

PLACEMENT BUREAU 
Main Bulldlnc 
1~11::KVI£WS SCIIEOULEO FOR JANUARY 70, AND WEEK t1P JANUARY 2h 
Interviews arl' for sradu.ate-~tudcnts, ~en lora and underp;r11duate Sludl'nts u lnoth·ated In tfle so;:hedulu l>elow, Sign-up achedules wlll be In Plh!Ct •• of ~nddv, January 19 tn Moom 21), Atl,.lnla­
tnti(m Rulldlng. Students mu~t he rep;lfltered with the )luri'IU, have Tl.'aum" on ftle and mull Rign up for any tnurvle~o~ In peuon. Sl~tn-up perlnd h from !1:00 A.M. to ~·00 P.M., Monday thru Friday. Additional lnlor.,...tlon un ln1ervlew11 and proeedureft will be found 
In thi!' Plan•IN>nt ~nnal. 

JAN. 20 ru;;:­ ~~odr_~.,~~~~t.I!'_I!!_I_J::ellowahlp~lnr~ IillA ur PhD {High-.r f.<luclltlon Admin,) - 
JAN.  2h  Dana  Corp.  
~  II  in Accr.  or  fin.  HJI.A  with Acct.  or  Fln.  
concentratlonorbkp;rd.  
f.lectronlcDatasyateme  
liM  In  IIA,  EC,  SC wtrh demonfitrated  intere~t  In  
Data  l'rocesstnp;,  atronp; acade..tc  ba"k~roomd.  
JAN,  n  Abraham.!. Straus  
~  fltnALand!IA.  MilA.  
CTS of elkhart  
~  in  Ef:,  ChE,  ME.  
Electronic  Data  Syntems  
liM  ln  IIA,  EG,  SC with demon11trated  tnterut  in  
Data  l'r"cesstng,  nrnn11 academic  backgrounrl.  
f.baacnServtrea  tnc.  
liM  tnCE,  EE,.  ME~,  Het,  
lndhma  State  Highway  Conniuton  
lllnCE.  
E. I,  OuPont  de  Nemour~  .!. Co.  Inc.  
BtnJ.c,ct,  
Northern Trust  Co,  
II  In  M.llth,  Mgt,  Fin,  Acct.  MilA.  
JAN. 211 Continental Can Co.


,..,--

MilA with Fin or Mktl'l backf'lround or concentration. 
E. I.DuPontdeNe....urst.Co. Inc. 
II In Ac~t. Fin. MBA with Acct or Fin concennarton orba.,kp;round. The Hearl Corp. II lnEE,ME,C!. M<"tropolltanLtfe lnauranceCo. BIn all dhdplines, Sargentt..I..Wldy, Engineers RH in CE, MEN.'I. IIMII In t:E, ME. 
("hrlstlBn llrnthen IIH in all dhdpltnea. Continental Illinois Corp. 
MBA 

Federal Highway AdmlntHrattnn liM In CF. 
r.~>neral F.lectrlc Co. f'tnanctal Mllnagement Program II In ALand 8A, Math. Loyola Untvenlty. Graduate School of 8ualneu 8 in 111 d l~ctpllne~. Stonet.,.ebsterEnglneertngCorp. BM In CE, EE, HE, HEOO, Ch.E. 
JAN. 30 r":Rrp;Hl, Inc. Frt. II In ALand BA. Contlnentlll Ulinnlft~ 
General Electric co. Fln•nctal M.anaaement Ptngram II in AL 1nd BA, Hath. Mellon Bank 
"" 

~.:torFinconcantratlon. 
Reilly Tar & Chemical Corp. BlnCh£. 

by Garry Trudeau 
F":r;,;;-;s·~··..~ 
: difference!!! : 
: ""MitE1011· :
• C T Ow.,»,..,. •
• M A 
Dlllllfllfllct • 
: DAT .... ~ct" : : LSAT s.unc~..., • 
• GRE Yoluiii~IIDUI hDIIIt : : GMAT ''udy"''''"'l' : : Q(AT Courltl l~llllt •
: (pAT consl:llr updllt~ : 
•. VAT ''''I1C1hton lor :
rev•••• ol c1111 •
: SAT 
lts1011und lor Ult • DIIUIIPitllltftllry e 
: FLEX "''''"'I' • : ECFMG ..,•• :p,ror : 
• 1111111d Insons • 
: NAT'L MED BDS : : NA T'l DENT BDS: 
• 
• Mou clu..s uart 8 weeks : 
• 
prtor to Exam • 
• 
Sp,ng & Fall compacts • 
Some courses offered on e
• MaJOr Campu..s e 
• 
• INDIANAPOLIS 
• 
6620 Greenshtre Drtve 
• 
lndoanapolts, Ind. 46220 
13171 842-1267 
•
• .........:
• 
CHICAGO CENTER • 
(312) 764-5151 • 
•-~tJi\ •





ia N 
: EDUCATIONAl ClNTflll : 

"''...,,....,tON
.,.,,____ --··.... 
•• 12'121,... •• 
• .,...,..., ft tliletD' u!. ':•lift 


O.J. may quit football for 'Ragtime' movie 
NEW YORK (APl -As 0. J. Simpson ponders his future in or out of professional football, his mind is inescapably drawn to two well-known figures of his 
trade,  Jim  Brown  and  Joe  
Namath.  
"I  always  admired  Jim  
Brown  as  a  runner,"  the  Buf­ 
falo  Bills'  record-setting  ball- 

carrier said Tuesday, "but the thing I most admired about him was that he quit on top. 
"It is easy for a ball player to say, 'One more year, one more year,' but that can be Bills) next week," Simpson tragic. People look at Jim said. "My contract runs Brown and remember how through 1977 but I have to talk great he was. That's what I to Mr. Wilson about my secur­want to happen to me." ity. We always have had a very 
Stopping in New York en good relationship. route to Miami for Sunday's "I would like to play another Super Bowl, 0. J. paused long year or two of football, but I enough to discuss one of the want to quit on top. Also, I National Football League's hot-want to get paid what I am test questions: Will he retire worth. before next season to pursue a "Joe Namath has set the promising movie career'? standard in football from the 
"I plan to talk to Mr. Wilson time he signed that first $400,­(Ralph Wilson, 0wner of the 000 bonus contract. He makes 
Action taken to reconsider elimination of day-alter -Thanksgiving holiday 
(continued from page 1) 
received comprise more than the 
"few" received by University 
President Fr. Theodore Hesburgh 
from parents complaining about 
students traveling home for two 
breaks in the semester. 
"I'm glad they all obviously took time to write and show that they are concerned," Byrne said. 
"Everything's moving as well as might be expected," Byrne continued. "I think the time element is in our favor. It's only a small change and we have almost two months before a final decision must be made." 
"This will give us time for a non­emotional, rational response," Byrne continued. "I'm hopeful that we can come up with an alternative that will make more people happy." 
Byrne said that the SLC has submitted a letter to Hesburgh, as chairman of the Academic Council, outlining four main reasons for opposing the current calendar guidelines. The reasons are as 
follows~ 
Sl.(' lists objections 
Thanksgiving is a traditional family holiday 
and those students fortunate 
enough to be able to go home for 
this feast should not be penalized 
for having done so." 
"The Universityis not at fault if students elect to travel home twice in the fall semester; the facilities of the University remain open during the short Thanksgiving break and consequently the decision to return home is the students's alone." 
"The Friday class day will transformThanksgiving Day into a study day for all thOse remaining on campus without significantly altering student erosion of the break. 
"University staff members will also be required to report to work on a day...traditionally spent at home with the family." 
CLASSIFIED ADS 
NOTICES 

IBM Selectric II typing, student rates, dissertations; Linda's Letters, 289-5193. 
FOR SALE 

COUCHES ··· $20·$30. Free delivery to dorm. Call Mrs. Cooper 272-3004 ­
YOUR KIND OF PEOPLE Serious hlgh.fldellty sound systems to keep you loose, yet a good price that won't get you uptight. Stereo components 20-40 percent discount RMS Audio 321 S. Main South Bend, Ind. 
WANTED 

Need 4 tickets to Maryland game. Call Mike after 6 p.m. 288-0088. 
WILL PAY BIG BUCKS FOR TWO UCLA TICKETS. PLEASE HELPI CALL JIM 8950. 
FOR RENT 

Rent my upsta[rs, SSO month 233­
•131'·· 
.L . ..,.t I I ! • t • f 
• fl •• •· 

Opposition to the elimination of the Friday holiday has also been voiced by officials of St. Mary's College. "St. Mary's will reluc­tantly go along," said Dr. William 
A. Hickey, vice-president of Academic Affairs, "though we are very opposed." 
SftfC proposal ignored 
Hickey said a proposal sub­mitted to Fr. James Burtchaell, Notre Dame provost, was not considered by the Council. "I attended the Academic Council meeting," Hickey said. "I was really surprised that no one presented the proposal or even mentioned the St. Mary's position on the new guidelines." 
The St. Mary's proposal called for a post-Labor day start, a week­long mid-semester break and a Thanksgiving break for a total of 68 class days. A similar calendar proposed by the Notre Dame student representatives included 
69  class  days,  but  indicated  a  
willingness  on  the  part  of  the  
student  body  to  attend  one  

Saturday class to bring the total to 70. 
The Academic calendar has been 
a controversial issue at Notre Dame since the fall semester was re-structured in 1969 to conclude with final examinations before Christmas. 
Joint program announced 
The University of Notre Dame and Bethel College have an­nounced a five-year combination liberal arts and engineering program. 
Under the so-called three-two plan, a student takes three years of liberal arts offerings and preparatory engineering courses at Bethel followed by two years in Notre Dame's College of Engineering. The student then receives two degrees, the ap­propriate bachelor's degree from Bethel and a Notre Dame bachelor of science degree in one of seven engineering fields: aerospace, chemical, civil engineering science, electrical, mechanical, and metallurgical and materials science. 
The combination program began at Notre Dame in 1951 when the first agreement was signed with a liberal arts institution and the 
University simultaneously started a similar program with its own 
College of Arts and Letters. 
$450,000 a year. That is six fig­ures more than I make. 
"I tell myself, 'Joe can't be that much better football play­er or that much bigger great attraction than I am.' So this is a big factor when I sit down with Mr. Wilson." 
If 0. J. can't find the security he feels he deserves in a Bills' uniform, there seems no ques­tion he can locate it in Holly­wood, as did Brown and as, to a lesser degree, has Namath. 
"I love acting," the hand­some Californian said. "I have made four movies and have two others in the works. I am really interested in playing the part of Coalhouse Walker in E. 
C. Doctrow's 'Ragtime.' It is the one oicture for which I 
would give up my football ca­reer." 
0. J.'s current long-term con­tract reportedly earns him $300,000 a year, which would put him $150,000 behind Nam­ath 's figure. 
He hasn't qualified for any roles. He has a lucrative con­tract with American Broad­casting Company and the Hertz rental car agency, the latter sponsoring his current tour on behalf of the U. S. Olympic Fund. He has a Hollywood agent who gets him as much work as he can stand making movies and TV commercials. 
But he has intense pride. If $450,000 is the going rate for football superstars, 0. J. leaves no doubt that he thinks he is in that company. 

-"But I can't have two classes at 3:251" was again heard as students registered yesterday for the spring semester. (Photo by Chris Smith) 
·····································~



,. •• 
:i• •: 
: i 
: ! 
: Look into Air Force ROTC. And there are 4-year, 3-year, or 2-year •• + programs to choose from. Whichever you select, you'll leave college with a + t commission as an Air Force officer. With opportunities for a position with re-++ sponsibility ... challenge ... and, of course, financial rewards and security. +
+ 
The courses themselves prepare you for leadership positions ahead. t

+ 
Positions as a member of an aircrew ... or as a missile launch officer ... posi-t + tions using mathematics ... sciences ... engineering. ++ Look out for yourself. LookintotheAirForceROTCprogramsoncampus. + 


: CONTACT: : 
+ CAPT. M.L. STOCKDALE + : ASST. PROFESSOR OF AEROSPACE STUDIES : 
• 283-6635 • 
... . Put it all together in Air Force ROTC.. .. ·...1 
...................................... 
'.·,;·i;li\,J~:: ·. 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------~---------------­

leers find ·1s rough after having a fine December 
by Ernie Torriero 
It i: nning to appear that the prop vord to describe this year tre Dame hockey team may . Jl-fated. For the Irish have '" ''fered theough more than their share of bad calls, injuries, 

and, in general,a continuous string of bad luck. 
This past weekend at the ACC, the Irish icers were whipped by Minnesota, 6-3 Friday night and then tied by the same Gophers' 4-4 Saturday night. The Irish were without the services of junior wing Alex Pirus. Pirus, who is still recovering from a knee injury suffered in practice over the holidayf skates on Notre Dame's premier scoting line with Brian Walsh and Clark Hamilton. Without the scrappy Pirus, that line wa'; to manage the meager 1otal '. one assist; that point coming off the stick of Hamilton. 
Minm 3ota posted a 2-1 second period advantage Friday night and exploded quickly in the third frame to roll on to the 6-3 win. Warren Miller lead the way with a Gopher hat trick. 
Yet it is Saturday night's 'contest which was especially disturbing to Lefty's icers. The Irish rode off to a 4-2 advantage midway through the second period on goals by Jeff 
Collier, Kevin Nugent, and Jack Brownschidle. Miller cut the lead to one by netting his fourth goal of the series later in the period. 
Then early in the third frame the Gopher's Joe Micheletti caught Brownschidle's right shoulder as he was attempting to clear the puck and the rubber disc bounced 1Jff Brownschidle past a surprised Len Moher for the tying goal. It 

.. 
was here that the officiating became questionable as Pat Novitski was called for an illegal check with five minutes gone in the overtime frame. To many, in­cluding Lefty Smith, the call ap­peared to be a wrong one, as Novitski made a fine play to thwart up a Gopher break-away attempt. Nevertheless, the call stood, and with the help of Moher's sen­sational goalie play (48 saves on the nightl the tie withstood the test of sudden death. 
"You have to believe," Smith explained,"that with all the ad­versity here tonight our club played as best it could. I never realized how much we missed Pirus. The Walsh line is really hurting without him." 
The standoff, the second of the season for the Irish, places Notre Dame in sixth place in the CHA with 16 pointa and a record of 7-7-2. The overall Notre Dame record in 9-8-2. 
December was indeed a good month for Notre Dame hockey. The Irish scored a 5-2 victory over Wisconsin on December 5, as Brian Walsh netted a hat trick. The next night the Badgers and Irish fought to a 2-2 tie. The contest marked the return of Len Moher in goal. Moher had a rough start and his 48 saves that night helped restore confidence in the sophomoregoalie. 
Notre Dame was off until after exams when they played their first non-conference game of the season against eastern powers Harvard and Boston College. Freshman Steve Schneider scored his first collegiate goal in the second period and Walsh and Nugent added tallies in the same period as the Irish out-distacned Harvard 9-7. 
Boston College provided the 
entertainment the following night 
fnd the Irish squeaked by the 
Eagles 6-5 on Collier's goal with 
less than two minutes remaining. 
Pirus netted two goals in the game 
and Moher turned away 41 BC 
shots. 
North Dakota was the scene of 
Notre Dame's New Year 
celebration as the Irish twice 
handled the Fighting Sioux by 
identical 5-3 scores. Brown­
schidle and Don Fairholm insured 
the first ND win with key ttird 
period goals. The following night 
the Irish stalked off th 4-1 lead 
after two periods, via the two-goal 
output of Hamilton. 
In a rare midweek non-conference 
game Bowling Green stunned the 
Irish 5-0 on January 6 in Ohio. The 
win was the first shutout for 

Bowling Green goalie Mike Luit, 
and the first time the Irish have 
failed to score in a game this year. 
In a rare midweek non-conferecne game, Bowling Green stunned the Irish 5-0 on January 6 in Ohio. The win was the first shutout for Bowling Green goalie Mike Luit and the first time the Irish have failed to score in a hockey gamethis year. 

"Looking back on the action over break," Smith concluded,"I have to be pretty well pleased with our performance. We scored a lot of goals and we did a lot of things well. We now have the tough part of our schedule coming up beginning with Michigan this weekend. If we are to make our move, it must be done now." 
The Irish resume action this weekend as they travel to Ann Arbor, Michigan to face the Michigan Wolverines. 


NO's Kevin Nugent finds the going rough In last weekend's contests with Minnesota. Titt Gophers won Friday and tied with the Irish Saturday. 





