Producer of 'Sting' to team-teach course on Film Writing next term 
by Chris Hopkins Costello will be searching for the actor in the St. Mary's Theatre and 
Staff Reporter students which seem to be the most first place winner of a state-wide promising for developing a suc­art contest for Indiana students. cessful program. A letter of introduction from Fr. 
The Department of English an­Costello said, "We don't want to Charles Sheedy, then Dean of Arts nounced yesterday that Tony Bill, deceide in advance who will be in and Letters, enabled Bill to receive former Notre Dame English major the course. We want to wait and an interview with movie director, and producer of the Academy see to find the best people." He Leo McCarey.Award winning film, The Sting, added, "Even if a student has not Bill's first Hollywood acting job 
will return to Notre Dame during written anything previously, he was the role of Frank Sinatra's the Fall Semester of 1976 to should still try and enter the brother in Come Blow My Hom. 
team-teach a course in Film Writ­program if he is interested.'' He subsequently appeared in manying. English 304, Film Writing, According to Costello there are feature roles in both movies and on 
will be organized by Professor no prerequisites in writing for the television. Bill's most recent 

Donald P. Costello of Notre Dame's course. He said, "We are trying to acting role was as Goldie Hawn's English Department. find the 20 most promising script boyfriend in Warren Beatty's ­
In September of 1976, and again writers. We want to base our Shampoo. at the end of the course, Bill will selections on general interests and In the meantime, Bill became come to campus to guide the promise, not on performance." Hollywood's most successful young students in their efforts to write a 
Students enrolled in the course movie producers. He maintained 
feature-length film script. He will will be required to write their own his friendship with Costello thr­
discuss with the class the stan­film-script. According to Costello oughout the years, and, at Costel­dards, techniques and goals of there is no intended relationship lo's invitation, Bill brought his first script-writing. between the idea that a film-script film to Notre Dame for its world 
Throughout the semester the written by a student could possibly premiere. Steelyard Blues, with inexperienced script-writers will be forwarded for consideration as a Jane Fonda and Donald Suther­meet in class session with Costello possible Hollywood movie. land, opened in Washington Hall. to analyze actual film scripts which "That idea depends on fate and (Continued on page 3)Bill will send from Hollywood. The fortune. If the script is good class will see the films made from enough, who knows what will those scripts, studying the role of happen," Costello said. "This is the writer in the total art of an Academic course and a Univer­film-making. sity experience that might have 
some practical results." 
Enrollment for this course will be 
Costello further explained, "In 
limited to 20 students, selected by the back of any student's mind Costello in consultation with the 
there is the hope that his scriptExecutive Committee of the De­might be used for an actual movie. partment of English. Interested They are also well aware of the fact 
students are asked to submit to 
that all of Bill's movies have been 
Costello, before preregistration, a written by college age students." portfolio of recent writings and a Costello is anticipating much statement concerning the reasons 
interest in the class and if the 
for their interest in the class. The 
course is successful it will hopefully 
course will be pass-fail only, and be continued. 
univers1ty of notre dome st. mary's college
the students from any College 
or While a student at Notre Dame,Department at Notre Dame are Bill was a frequent contributor of 
Vol. X No. 75 
eligible. 
poetry to the Juggler, a prominent 

Outcome discouraging 


Collective bargaining viewed 
by Mary Pat Tarpey The series arose after the Faculty of the University caused faculty Staff Reporter Senate ad hoc Committee on col­pressures. lective bargaining presented a Added to these pressures was 
Keith R. Kleckner spoke before report to describe the mechanics of the request to participate in certain members of the Faculty Senate collective bargaining and it possi­matters by non-academic adminis­concerning collective bargaining in ble application at private univer­trators. Also during this time a relation to university faculty, last sities such as Notre Dame. strike by General Motors caused a night at the University Club. Last spring a question on collec­monetary squeeze. Welfare roll 
Kleckner, who is currently tive bargaining was included in went up and taxes rolls went down 
Associate Provost at Oakland Univ­faculty referendum conducted by forcing state legislature to divert ersity, Rochester, Michigan out­the Senate in which 25 per cent funds to welfare sources. lined the reasons Oakland turned to opposed it and SO per cent request­After five years of collective collective bargaining and related ed more information. The Senate bargaining Kleckner stated where his disenchantment with it. amended to a second report a he believed the University stood. 
His presentation was the third in provision for speakers and subse· "I am very discouraged with the a series of inflormative discussions quent faculty forum to inform outcome of the situation. I think held by the Faculty Senate "for the members of the Notre Dame com­you can live through it. I think purpose of exploring the issue of munity. there are some good features. I collective bargaining pro and con." Kleckner explained that Oak· happen to think the cons outweigh 
land made the move to organize for the pros." He added, "I'm not .collective bargaining around 1969-sure they would in your case my 70 as a combination of many guess is that they would. You have
SMC R.A. program to change; 
factors. "The pressure was on the to deal with some pretty tough faculty. Presssure from many problems.'' different sources. There was a Kleckner explained the outcomes 

Psychology credits required 
need for some collective bargain­of the bargaining. He pointed out ing." what he termed the "We-They" The student unrest of the period, problem which he finds to be a
by Marti Hogan tion, conflict-resolution, crisis in­participate in the program. "Only the great shift in student body serious one. "It is the facultyAsst. St. Mary's Editor tervention, community a few individuals will be chosen to concerning the area of concentra­against the administration, notdevelopment and general admin­serve during their senior year tion of studies sciences and the working together rather they areSt. Mary's Resident Advisor istrative supervision. alone," she said, "because we are growth and increasing complexity 
(Continued on page 3) policy changes as the selection wide," Ritchie continued. "Some ween the number of juniors and procedure begins for next year, universities and colleges have · seniors on the staff." 
announced Gail Ritchie, assistant classes in human relations (R.A.) program will undergo two "The idea of training is nation­trying to maintain a balance bet­
Sophomores Encouraged 

to the director of the counsel. training and life skills as basic as These changes require students to listening . " she added. Ritchie hopes sophomores who take a total of four credit hours of apply now will want to stay in the psychology and encourage current Course Is Different R.A.program for two years. "I­sophomores to apply for R.A. deally, the sophomores will come
The course b taught differently

positions now. back in the fall to train and become 
than most academic courses though

R.A. 's will be required to take a veteran R.A. 's Then they will
Ritchie explained. "Skill devel­

psychology course, to be offere.d become leaders in the program.''
opment is an important part of the 

consecutively next year. This Ritchie explained.
course. The R.A. can practice the course will train the R.A.'s to specific skill she has just learned in "As an R.A. you grow as abecome "para-professionals" in class," she added. person, but the experience andthe field of counselling. 

The class was offered this year skills will also be useful for "Before, we picked good people for R.A.'s but only on a voluntary graduate school and careers," and assigned them to halls sec­basis. Only new students who are Ritchie said. tions." Ritchie said. "Now we're 
hired at the beginning of the month The Counselling Department is training R.A.'s in the form of an 
of January for a semester's dura-sponsoring a general introductoryacademic course.'' tion will be exempt from the course meeting tonight at 5:30 'p.m. in requirement , Ritchie explained. Carroll Hall for all interested
The class provides a base for the 
R.A.'s to develop basic skills. Ritchie especially encourages 'students. A question and answer students in the class of '78 to session will follow the introduction. 
These skills include communica-




1 
I 


---N€ws , Jriefs--""""""' 
1::::======-=:=----_+e· a donal 
Electronic de~ ~rt -~ 
GIDI PASS* Sinai :.Jeserr Ameri,·:!n iers ar-~ working by floodlights in the de:-,...:rt to -.; ~ed the i11:.t. •n of an early warning alarm system between the Israeli and Eg:-. .tian front lines. 
Officials say the electronic network, designed to prevent a surprise attack by either side east of the Suez CanaL will be ready by next month's deadline. 
t-===::::::::====::::::-::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::===National 
President keeps secrets 
WASHINGTON -In a precedent-setting victory for President Ford, the House blocked its intelligence committee last night from publicly disclosing secrets without the Presideent's approval. 
The directive was approved 246 to 124 over objections of the committee majority that it would give the President and the intelligence agencies the power to censor the committee's final report to the House. 
t==::::::::::::::::====-==::::::::::::::::::::::::===::::::::=== Local 

Washington recrosses river 
BEDFORD Ind.· A southern Indiana man is trying to raise $80000 
to help George Washington cross the Delaware. 
Actually, Merle Edington needs he money to transport a 50-ton monument of General Washington's famous ferry from Bedford, lnd., to Washington Crossing, Pa., where the statue will take up :"'~rmanent residence as part of the nation's bicentennial clebration. 
---On Campus Today-­
friday, january, 30, 1976 
·30pm 
5:15pm 6pm 7:30pm 8pm 
~ 
9 pm -1:15am --lecture, "enzymic and physiological properties of phosphohydrolases" by prof. stanford moore,rm. 
123, nieuwland science hall  
--mass and dinner, bulla shed  
--mardi gras opening, stepan center  
--hockey, "colorado college at n. d.," ace  
--drama, "san quentin drama workshop beckett's 'endgame'," o'laughlin aud., $2.50 general, $2 students  in tic sam kets:  
--mardi gras, "stratus," stepan  


saturday, january 31, 1976 
10:30 am --meeting, "farley striders," anyone welcome, ace track 
11 am --basketball (women), "northwestern at n. d., ace arena, no admission charge, come cheer for the home team (great!) 
wrestling, "univ. of nebraska at omaha, edinboro 

12:30 pm --college, univ. of wisconsin-parkside at n. d.," ace auxiliary gym 
basketball, "maryland at n. d.,'' ace arena 4pm --hockey, "colorado college at n. d.," ace 
7:30pm  --film, "don quixote-starring n:­ ,Jph nureyev,"  
o'laughlin aud., for patrons onh  
8:30pm  
9pm  ..mardi gras, "smitn & co.," ste.  

sunday, february 1, 1976 
1, 3:30, 6&8:30pm 3:30pm 8-11:30 pm 8pm 
film, "don quixote--starring r•~.:olph nureyev," --o'laughlin aud., tickets: $1 
-~mardi gras, "magic show," ste.. 
--mardi gras, "notre dame talent_ stepan 
--lecture, "the individual and ·:1e community: corporate election and personal salvation," by wolfhart pannenberg, univ. of munich, library aud 


--concert, david clark isele --organ, sacred heart church 

*The Obser1..'(:-r oav F-i;:. ·urcen Flynn 
~:('<tfll:"•"): ,, :J· ;s Night Editor: Dan ::.; ,.·hez Sl:i.,rts; i .u~ ~;.son, Fred Assis!ant Night Editor-: L ·,::s ~ lerbs· 
Smrth Lz.te Typist: •Jmds O'Neil Blessed Night Staff: 1\11ary , Act layout;"S.,·.; Dentz,.Tom • 



Hearst trial ends third session­interrogations closed to press 
SAN FRANCISCO AP -With Patricia Hearst's trial in secret session, her chief attorney warned Thursday that potential jurors and reporters could be held in contempt if they revealed details of the closed jury interrogations. 
Two more tentative jurors, in­cluding the first male, were seated Thursday morning as the selection process fell far behind schedule. That left 30 more persons to be selected for the required pool of 36 subject to peremptory challenge later on. 
The 21-year-old newspaper heir­ess, who faces a possible 35-year jail sentence if convicted of armed bank robbery, was hidden from press and public, but attorneys said she was present at Thursday's session. 
The defendant's father, San Francisco Examiner President Randolph Hearst, was the only family member at the proceeding, in contrast to Wednesday's session when his wife Catherine and another daughter, Vicki, attended. 
Chief defense attorney F. Lee Bailey, arriving for the second day of jury selection, was angry about newspaper accounts of comments by potential jurors who were ex­cused from the panel Wednesday. 
"They can't speak to you on the way out," Bailey told a reporter. "They probably will be held in contempt if they do it again, and the newsmen too." 
Later, inSisting that his partner Bailey was not seeking to muzzle the press, Albert Johnson, another of the defense attorneys, said that 
U.S. District Court Judge Oliver J. Carter had instructed prospective 
ERRATUM 
The Quickie ad on page 6 of yesterday's Observer failed to ­mention Kubiak's as one of the primary stops. The Quickie will stop at Kubiak's. The Quickie will be running tonight and all future 
·tes of Quickie trips will be 'ounced in the Thursday and t "da classified ads. 
The Observer is published Noonday through Friday and lllll'!ekly during the SUITTTIE!I' session, except during the exam; and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of the Univ. of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subsaiptions may be purchased tor S18 ($10 per semester) fro, The Observer, Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second Class postage paid, Notre Dame, IN 46556. 
1 Mile N.onn of NOTRE DAME on U.S. 31 North (219) 217-1522 
jurors at the end of Wednesday's session not to speak to members of the news media. 
''The judge said that if alAY. potential juror is harassed by members of the press or anyone else he would deal with it summar­ily," Johnson declared. Asked what constituted harassment, John­son said, "I don't know." Report­ers were given no official notice of any judicial order. 
Meanwhile, members of the press corps camped in a corridor on the 19th floor of the federal courthouse where jury selection was taking far h" anti< pated. 

By the time Carter ·-.. a nonn recess Thursday, only •fenti.' panelists had bet five of them wer, 
The judge had p1 11; earli· _ he would seat a jury ir ;!> ;;,.~n two days. But in the third day of questioning, it appeared that find­ing a jury to judge Mis<> Hearst on bank robbry charges was a more difficult task than the judge sus­pected. Johnson said he doubted that a jury would be empaneled before the weekend. 

MOVIE TICKETS ONLY $1.50!!! 

at Student Union Ticket Office Good for all shows ( weekends too! ) except advertised Special Features Scottsdale, State, 8-Town 8-Country. 
HElD OVER-6th WEEK 
IJZA • BURT HACKMAN • MINNEill REYNOlDS ''UJCKY lADY'·PG-
The yearis 2024__
_  
a future you'll probabl  live to see.  
NOW  
IN  See it From the  
FORUM II  Start ... Fri. 7:30, 9:45  
SAT-SUN  
1:45, 3:45  
5:45, 7:45  
10:00 P.M.  

Cill [ID®W CilliTD@J Guo© @J®® 
[an R rated, rather kinky tale of survival[ 
LQ/Jaf'""""'A BOY AND HIS DOG~'""'"' DON JOHNSON· SUSANNE BENTON'"' ALVY MOORE 
NO Ot....E ADMITTED AFTER PERFORMANCE STARTS... IT HAS TO BE SEEN FROIYI THE BEGINNING:.=..:..=.~I___._.J 
ADDED-COLOR CARIOON FUN! MIDNITESHOWS -TONITE~SAT. -TAKE YOUR PICK! 
'. lluties and Gentlenel.. I "A BOY AND IDS DOG" n 
Janca, PauiSchaP,pler,_N~al.-,.;. ,Walfa,~h 1.~~~~·~~te!;.'.~9J'~"/ ,", <· ••: ··· · • •'·'The ROiliNG STONES" 'OR Reduced Price-Both Theatres 
Mong~~~JoeB~e~~~~~~~~'~j~~AA·~~--·-~··'~···w~-·~~~L·~~!~~r!~:o~w~~~~~~=·~~27~7~·~15~2=2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 



Convention Delegate roles stressed 
by Mary Beth Mlracky 

Staff Reporter Note: The foUowlng Is the second In a series on the Mock Democratic Convention which wiD take pl~e atstepan Center March 3-6. The first article provided background Information and traced the Initial stages of the convention. 
Delegates sporting cigars and hats while armed with confetti and streamers will play a starring role in this year's Mock Convention, 
accordingto Jame "Buzz" Reynolds a junior government major from Scotch Plains, New Jersey. Dele­gate selection and duties were outlined in an interview Tuesday 



Following this year's Bicentennial Mardi Gras theme, clever booth-makers have woven American traditions, history and life-styles into their designs. Tonight's opening is expected to draw a heavy crowd. (Photo by Chris Smith) 
Kleckner speaks before Faculty Senate 
(Continued from page 1) sneaking around. 1t is a bad situation.'' 
The cost in time is "horrendous" especially during peak bargaining time when Kleckner stated that a person could put 70-80 hours a week towards the bargaining ef­fort. 
Kleckner admitted that although salaries tend to level they are 
Pool tournament begins Monday 
Students can sign-up until Sun­day in the LaFortune pool hall for the newly created Notre Dame Pool To~rnament. Play begins in the tournament on Monday with the finals taking place on Mar. 1. Anyone having questions should contact Jim Culyeyhouse at 287-­8890. 

'Sting' producer to teach course 
(Continued from page 1) Bill also returned to Notre Dame for a guest appearance in the Sophomore Literary Festival. 
With, the Sting, Bill hit it big, receiving an Academy Award as the producer of the Best Film of the Year. 
More recently Bill produced Hearts of the West, starring Jeff Bridges and lnJ Arkin. His Harry and Walter Go To New York, with Michael Caine, will soon be re­leased. 
The scripts of all of these films, and the films themselves, will be studied in the Costello-Bill Film Writing Course. 

: 
.. 
• 

. .. .... 
t 
:• 
•_. 

definitely going up. "There is no doubt the most significant of the bargaining is the increase in salar­ies. We are number two in the state as far as salaries go and a close 
second  at  that,"  he  said.  Also  
some  jobs  have  been  saved  
through negotiating.  

Kleckner warned that there is less flexibility for both sides. No special deals could be made nor could there be any exceptions. He further stated that there was less flexibility of administrators to dis­tribute money. In conclusion Kleckner said, 
******************************* 


I JUNIORS!! .J
ILast Chance for Senior! 
t 
I 
I 
I 
with Delegation Coordinator Rey­

nolds and Co-Chairperson Vincent 
Moschella, mentioned in last 
week's convention story. 
Reynolds cited delegate role according to convention procedure. 
As attending the convention, proposing platform amendments according to convention years, platform debating, nominating and seconding candidates, and voting for candidates. 
Role of delegates 
Moschella added, "On the first night of the convention delegates will be required to pay a $1 fee at the check-in desk at which time they will receive the official con­vention program I guidebook." 
Alternates are welcome at all sessions and will be seated in a special section. They will fill in the delegations in case of absence, explained Moschella. 
Chairmen of each delegation are 
One game return 
now calling meetings to inform their groups. Moschella said the convention duties of chairmen in addition to their delegate role include filling a delegation, coun­ting roll call votes and caucusing. 
Reynolds revealed the selection of delegates later in the interview. Each delegation is one-fourth of those in the 1972 Democratic National Convention, or 750 in total. Most are volunteers from the individual states, but some state quotas were not filled. Reynolds said volunteers from states with an overflow moved to these areas to create full delegations. 
He continued, "In the past, Mock Conventions have had the same problem, but have selected the winner of the national conven­tion 10 of 12 times. 
Reynolds cited that the Conven­tion selected McGovern in the spring of 1972 before strong show­ing. 
This shouldn't influence the voting significantly because geo-



Ara to coach Stars 
CHICAGO ( AP) -Former Notre Dame football Coach Ara Parseghian will return to the college coaching _ranks-but only for one game. _ _ 
Parseghian, 52, will coach the 1976 College All-Stars against the National Football League champion Pittsburgh Steelers, Chicago Tribune Charities, Inc., which sponsors the annual event, said Thursday. 
"I'm looking forward to the experience," said P arseghian, who won national champion­ships in 1966 and 1973 at Notre Dame before he retired at the end of the 1974 college season. 

His squad will face the two­. time NFL champion Steelers July 23 in Chicago. ­
"This job will give me an op­portunity to coach in 1976 with­out making a full year of it," said Parseghian. He added that his decision to accept the job is no indication that he plans to 
"My only advice to you is don't expect it to be easy, don't expect it to be cheap and most important don't expect it to be friendly. It won't get you any of these. It may get you higher salaries." 

Terps rally ton~ght 
The pep rally for the Maryland game will be held tonight in the ACC Pit at 6:30. Co-captains Adrian Dantley and Bill Paterno, along with head coach Digger Phelps, will be featured speakers. 

1
Yearbook Pictures! 


TODAY 
SIGNUP IN DINING HALL FROM 5:15 -6:30 pm OR 
return to full-time coaching. "It has no bearing on my future." During 24 years of college coaching, spanning five years
at Miami of Ohio, eight at 
Northwestern and 11 at Notre 
Dame, Parseghian compiled
a170...58-6 record. He was 95-17-4
N D 
at otre arne, second only to 
Knute Rockne, who had a 1().5..
12-S mark . 
graphic distribution has not had that much effect upon the voting in the past, since most students are similar in their background and attitudes," commented Reynolds. 
Rules will be given to the delegates before the convention and printed in the Observer. 
Also available at cost to the Convention is the "whoopee" ma­terial mentioned earlier. Cam-


paign stickers and buttons are free. 
Moschella said some placards are available, but encouraged candi­dates to display their own crea­tions. 
Reynolds commented on the expected "whoopee", ''We want to make the convention as life-like 
as possible which is mass confu­sion. Hopefully, the delegation will not be intimidated by this." 
He continued, "It should be a 
1ea~ning process in politics by
wh1ch the delegates will under­
stand the pressure involved in such an undertaking."
Moschella added that "even the band will be there. " 

'***********************************
..

i REGAL LANES :
.. .. 
: is organizing : 
.. ..
.. .. 
~ a St. Mary's -Notre Dame t ~ "mixed doubles league" this spring. : 
We hope to make this a tradition for our ND -SMC friends.  :..!......  
CALL 259-5209  ..i  
for further information -1121 W. 8th St. Mishawaka  •.. ~  

+********************************** • 
• 
TACOS 

• 
IIRRIJOS 

• 
EICIIIAtAS 

• 
TOSTAtOS 

• 
TAMAlES 

• 
TACO tOO 



• lEAl TACO 
RESTAURANTE • IARIEQGE TACO
• IAI1 TACO
SCOTTSDAlE MALL 
• SPAJIISI lOT DOl

291-3142 • • CIEESEIUROER 
.········....., .............. 

MORE AND MORE : 
,,,,,_, t.r "' WIETIIRMNS. •• '"' j,.
IUTLESS TACOS, TAMAlES, EICIIIAtAS, IIRRIJOS, IEAJI TACOS, 11i TOSTDOS Ill 
111116 "' HI TMIJ: ,,,., I• "" ••,. ,., "' I


,.m.. , 

: DRAWING II• $25oo CERTIFICATE 1 1 ,_ "' Til AMIIN:M IIATIIJIIAt lAIIt *6. WI 11 161 : 
: TACO RICO I 
CALL 7085 or 7524 
1llME ___ PHO.E __ ZIP : IADDIESS _______ CITY ___ STATE 1 
from 7pm -9pm 1 NO. DRAWING: FEB. 11, 1976 --~ 
1

.............................. ......... . .. .......... 
. ·-~~--·~·,._ .··.';' ~,-';,~ ~ ·. \' ·. ~···~ -~ ~'··..~·--.iiiiiiiOii;;iiiiiii;;liiii;;;;;;~~~iioiial~':.li:.~~~~;;.;;;;;.;;~~;;;:-;~;~ 
In Hayes-Healy 


Socio-economics discussed 
by Tom Byrne Staff Reporter 

A dramatic socio-economic rev­olution is presently occurring in Western Europe, according to Ted Mills, director of the National Quality of Work Center. Mills spoke yesterday afternoon in the Hayes-Healy auditorium to an al­most capacity audience. 
Mills feels the revolution has "profound" implications not only for the United States, but also for the future of both capitalism and democracy. 
The trend Mills describes is known as "industrial democracy." 
The story of its evolution will be one of the most significant events of this century. 
It's importance stems from the fact that it represents capitalism in transition, affecting such basic elements as the nature and control of production, the relationship of employees and management, the role of government regulation, the place of man and machine in production , and the role of workers and voters in a modern industrial society. 
Specifically, Mills cited three examples of upheaval in Western Europe. --In Italy the largest and most powerful union shocked Italian management with demands for worker participation in manage­ment decisions, including corpor­ate investment, and that all aspects of the corporation's operations be s'ubject to bargaining. --In France, The current regime fulfilled a campaign promise by recommending, among other changes, that at least one third of each company's board of directors be composed of employees and that the government require employee profit sharing. --In Sweden, all facets of a com­pany's operations must be bar­gained with labor unions, accord­ing to pending proposals. Swedish leaders expect that these recom­mendations will become law before 1977. 
Similar changes are occuring in Denmark, Britain, Germany, Por­tugal, Ireland and even Luxem­borg. 
British management is largely resigned to some form of employee participation on corporate boards by 1977, he explained. Commun­ists, except in Italy, have been completely opposed to the notion, preferring total overthrow rather than reform. 
If any one event sparked these changes, Mills believes it was the 1972 Works Consitution Act in West Germany. This required that each organization of more than five employees establish a Works Coun­cil, composed of management and workers to discuss such matters as wages, promotions, and advanced corporate policies. Also required for larger companies was Economic Council , to monitor investment and financial progress. It has had somewhat surprising results. 
According to Mills, four basic forces are behind the clamor in Europe. Politically, the socialists, although anti-communist, have spearheaded the drive, but with.
' another factor, socially aware man­agement, playing an important role. 
Thirdly, an intellectual force composed of a variety of econom­ists and social commentators, has provided much of the movement's impetus. But perhaps most im­portantly, growing public distate with the institutions of leadership and social structures, which has displayed itself in aberrant beha­vior and separatism, is the greatest cause of the changes, Mills ex­plained. 
"The rising worker demands are but one manifestation of a new social movement, calling for changes in church, social structure and civil rights in recent years," Mills declared. "Capitalism is the last bastion." 
Mills reported two different con­notations of the term ''industrial plementation, fearing that demo­democracy," suggesting two dif­cracy has been forgotten. He ferent structures. First, the far concedes that the structures being leftist view , which Mills calls establisbed add their main pro­co-determinism, involving active tagonists are undemocratic , and employee participation in the di­that it is unlikely that they will rection of private and public enter­convert in the near future. He does prise, legislated iby government. see some cause for hope, however. 
Of the two, Mills stated that co-determination presented more "If the collective goal in Europe problems for both management is faith in human nature' and and labor. Many unions are cooperative experience on the eco­alarmed with the prospect of nomic field, a new age of demo­having to take responsibility for the cracy will dawn," Mills concluded. success of a business enterprise. He added that the democratic Both sides are concerned that the nature of the United States made it board room will be converted into a the most conductive location for negotiating table. worker participation in business. 
Mill's greatest concern is the Mill's speech was one segment speed of this upheaval and the of "The Design of Humanistic TED MILLS (Photo by Chris Smith) abrupt, methods used for its im-Work" Iectu.re series. 
---------------------------·




rsiiop··TowN·&··1 ISOUND MASTERS I 
I CLOSE-OUT I
: COUNTRY: 
I SAVE I 
-THE BEAD GALLERY-1I SJ4o. 00 1I 
millions of imported beads 1 1 JUTE-WAXED LINEN-POLYESTER I I 
499 95
TWINE-READYMADE & MADE TO I "I
REGULAR$ 

ORDER-MACRAMEJEWELRY' COMPLETE I NOW $359 I 
Technics by Panasonic top model in the
LINE OF MACRAME SUPPLIES I Technics 
cassette recorder line. All the better
by Panasonic
919A W. McKinley Av~. I features, including: Separate Hot RS-279US Pressed Ferrite heads for 
(next to Boogie Records) 1 
record-playback and monitor, Double 
~~==~~~~~~~~~~ 
gap head for erase, DC motor for direct capstan drive, Second motor for fast and forward rewind, Dolby noise reduction system, Tape Selector Switch, Electronic Auto-Stop, Pause control, memory 
~ 
rewind, Tape-Source monitor, Feather
~ 

touch solenoid operation, and remote 
SM 
i 
control accessory.
i 

z TOWN AND COUNTRY 
• SHOPPING CENTER 
Come You Fightin' Irish 
TO TOWN & COUNTRY FOR YOUR FAVORITE 


WINES-LIQUORS 
Both Stores Open Nights 'til 11 PM 
LIQUOR • WINE 10% DISCOUNT WITH ND-SMC I.D. BEER · BEST PRICE IN TOWN VOLUME DISCOUNT FREE DELIVERY
WE'RE BEHIND FREE 
DELIVERY 


THE IRISH 
: *' , I ; , .-f I 1 • I • I : I • I I ' • I I I t I 

~~·--,;,,,,,,_,-:, ~
...... ..... . 


the observer 

Theology Profs comment on Vatican document 
by JIU Truitt Staff Reporter 
Exaltation of sex in the media is 
the main reason behind the Vatican 
declaration on sexual ethics relea­
sed Jan. IS, two Notre Dame 
theology professors claim. 
The Vatican document stated 
that the modern over-emphasis on 
sex is evidence of an increase in 
moral corruption. 
Theology Department Chairman 
Fr. David Burrell stated, "The 
Vatican declaration is concerned 
about idolatry in society and con­
fusion among believers." 
"The Vatican speaks as a pro­
phet did against a popular idola­
try," Burrell continued. "The 
idolatry is of sex for its own sake or 
just for pleasure." 
Fr. Charles Sheedy, theology professor, agreed. "There is a tremendous exaggeration of sexual 
importance in life," he said. 
The Vatican document does not 
profess to deal with all the abuses of sexuality. Nor does its purpose include all the elements involved in the practice of chastity. 
The declaration is concerned with only three areas: pre-marital sexual activity, homosexuality and masturbation. 
Burrell explained that sexual relations must be primarily under­stood between a man and a woman. 
"Their relationship should express a bond of unity whose natural outcome will be a new generation," he added. 
This description of sexual acti­vity is proposed as the norm, according to Burrell. 
Masturbation, homosexuality and pre-marital sexuality are op­posed to the purpose of the human constitution regarding sexualtiy," Sheedy explained. ''The obvious purpose of sexuality is repro­duction." 
Burrell stated that masturbation fails to relate to the characteristics 
that make man to be man and sonal dispensations. woman to be woman. A personal, self-chosen morality 
Homosexuality fails to differ­is recommended, Sheedy added. entiate these differences,'' he Christian morality is not without added. "And promiscuity under­a God, Burrell Emphasized. "God mines both the expressive and is ready to forgive," he said. unitive power of the activity.'' Children and young people 
The only difference is that mar­should be encouraged to weigh riage dismays the permissiveness moral values with an upright involved in pre-marital sex, he concscience," he suggested. "You 
said. 

The document ends up on the side of human development for men and for women, he stated. 
"The Pope's declaration affirms traditional teaching,'' Burrell com­mented. "It lays it out for you to make a judgement." 
"If well-presented, it will be a welcome alternative to the declar­ations favoring sex only for plea­sure," he said. 
The declaration will offend a lot of people simply because it is from the church, according to Burrell. 
Sheedy explained that the docu­
ment does allow lenience for per-
Food fighting is focused on by dining hall employee complaints 
by Joe Gill Staff Reporter 
Something should be done about these 'traditional' food fights," said one employee in a letter forwarded to Roemer ''They are not only costly in the amount of food that is wasted and the extra labor that it takes to clean after them, but they are also dangerous. Many accidents such as slips or falls could occur from students trying to get out of the way of flying food," the employee said. 
Roemer centered his concern around food waste, saying that "There is a waste of food here in a situation where others in the world are hungry. So many people express a concern about World Hunger, and then others are in a cafeteria throwing food." 
On Sunday night, a food fight in "D" line of the North Dining Hall resulted in one employee being injured when she slipped and fell on some food scattered on the floor. 
In a letter to Roemer, Lawrence Aronson, manager of the North Dining Hall, stated "There seems to be a great tradition at Notre Dame regarding food fights. It has gone on for many, many years. It is 
our  obligation  to  start  a  new  
tradition of not  allowing  them  to  
happen."  

As a result of food fights in the North and South Dining Halls last weekend, James Roemer, Dean of Students, stated yesterday that "Disciplinary action for food fights will now be handled by the Office of the Dean of Students.'' 
Roemer said that he will be meeting with Dining Hall person­nel ''for the purpose of suggesting tha l.D. cards be taken from students involved in these fights, with only a possible return from me, along with disciplinary ac­tion." 
Last Saturday evening, accor­ding to employees of the South Dining Hall, approximately 200 students sitting at 21 tables were involved in a food fight, resulting in $157 in damage. This included a broken chair, clean-up costs, total food waste and dish breakage, in addition to a 30 minute delay for cleaning purposes. 
''Something should be done about these 'traditional' food fights," said one employee. 
Morocco takes Spanish Sahara 
RABAT, Morocco--AP-· Morocco claimed Thursday to have captured the Spanish Sahara desert area where it battled with Algeria for three days, taking 101 Algerian prisoners in all. Algeria announced its forces "have withdrawn in good order." 
There was no independent veri­fication of the claims. An offical statement in Rabat said the region of Amghala, 175 miles southwest of the Algerian border , had been "cleansed of all rebel all rebel elements," a reference to guerillas of the Algerian-backed Polisario Front which favors independence for the Spanish Sahara. 
Spain is turning over the 105,000 square-mile mineral-rich territory which it has held since 1884 to 
Morocco and Mauritania  on  Feb.  
28.  The  two  countries  say  they  
have  historial  claims  to  the  land  

which Algeria opposes. The Span­ish reached their decision in Nov­ember after King Hssan II of Morocco sent several hundred thousand unarmed civilians on a march to the Spanish Sahara. Military sources in Paris earlier Thursday reported intense fighting between Morocco and Algeria, saying they used tanks and heavy artillery in the bleak, freezing desert area. 
The fighting has been reported in communiques from Algiers and Rabat with no information from the scene but foreign ministry officials in Paris said they took the com­muniques seriously. 
The offical Algerian News Agen­cy said in Algiers that its forces withdrew "after they admirably carried out their mission." 
The Moroccons said they had captured "important quanities" of heavy equipment, .including artill­ery. mortars and ground-to-air missiles. 
The Moroccans took 72 prisoners battalion. 
Thursday, including two officers, Mauitania, meanwhile, denied 
the Rabat communique said. Algerian claims of fighting recently 
Fighting continued wutil early in around the Atlantic coast part of 
the morning before the Polisario Villa Cisneros, now called Dakhla 
rebels suffered "several dozen and Arboub. The Algerians have 
killed" and resistance collapsed. claimed refugee camps in the area 
The Algerians claimed that when were bombed by Moroccan aircraft fighting started Tuesday in the following fierce ground fighting. Amghala area, its forces were Sources in Mauritanian capital of merely carrying food and medicine Noukchott said a town in northern to Sahara refugees. But the Mauritania near the Sahara bord­Moroccans said the Algerian sol-er had been subjected to machine diers came from the 41st Infantry gun and mortar fire in recent davs. 
············~·········..1·······················~



i: SENIORS!!! !.
! SENIOR TRIP Balances will be ! :collected STARTING Monday, Feb 2.: ! Mon-Fri 12-1:15 p.m. ! 
: LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER ii (outside Student Activities Office) : 
! • FRESHMEN, SOPHOMORES, i i & JUNIORS ! ! There are a limited number of :
. 
: seats avaliable for :: ~ : THE SENIOR TRIP : e To FREEPORT 1 ! see a senior class officer or drop off ~e i a $50.00 desposit at the : 
! STUDENT ACTIVITIES OFFICE ! 
!DEADLINE is Feb ·j·j··l·~
.
............................................... 
don't have to be pumshed; you punish yourself 
Sheedy stated that many people mistakenly think free sex will make them happy. "Misused sexuality carries its own lack of value," Sheedy remarked. 
"Respect for human chastity is a good part of human life," he said. 

NOTRE DAME -SAINT MARY'S THEATRE TRYOUTS FOR 
MY HEART'S IN THE HIGHLANDS 
by 

William Saroyan 
Tuesday, February 3 at 7:00 p.m. Wednesday, February 4 at 7:00 p.m. 
Callbacks Thur3day, February 5 at 7:00 o.m. Lalxlratory Theatre Washington Hall at Notre Dame Please use iroo staircase in rear Open to all Notre Dame -Saint Mat'V's students. 
NEW RELEASES: 
*AFTERTONES Janis Ian *CONEY ISLAND BABY Lou Reed *IF THE SHOE FITS Pure Prairie League *THOROUGHBRED Carole King *FRAMPTON COMES ALIVE Peter Frampton *STATION TO STATION David Bowie 
ALL THESE AND OTHERS FOR ONLY 
$4.99 FOR LP'S OR $6.29 8-TRACKS AND CHECK-OUT OUR NEW TEN PLUS ONE BARGAIN CARD· BUY TEN ALBUMS OR TAPES AND GET THE ELEVENTH FOR $1.00 OFF! 
RECORDS 
255-0266 


919 B COLLEGE SQUARE 
::(Across from Town and Country) 


, 
DOONESBURY by Garry Trudeau 
(7/NNY, I CAN'T ret/.. Y(){j 

*lJ~d.~~ver 
Founded November 3, 1966 

The Observer is published by the students of the University EDITORIAL BOARD of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. It does not necessarily 
Terry Keeney Editor-in-Chief reflect the policies of either institution. The news is reported AI Rutherford Managing Editor as accurately and objectively as possible. Editorials represent Jim Eder Executive Editor the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Com­Pat Hanifin Editorial Editor
mentaries are the views of individual editors. Opinions, cartoons and regular columns express the views of their 
Bob Mader News Editor authors. Column space is available to all members of the Maureen Rynn C~us Editor community, and leHers are encouraged to promote the free Mary Janca St. Mary's Editor expression of varying opinions on campus. Ken Bradford Copy Editor Val Zurblis Wire Editor Editorials: 283-1715 News: 283-8661 Business: 283-7471 
Tom O'Neil Features Editor Business Manager Tom Modglin Bill Blink Sports Editor Advertising Manager Tom Whelan 
Dan 5anchez Senior Night Editor 
Friday, january 30, 1976 
~ 




Go To Mardi Gras! 
Traditionally, Mardi Gras was celebrated the helping to raise money for some worthyday before Ash Wednesday as a final fling charities. Profits from Mardi Gras will got to before the dreary and penitential season of groups like Neighborhood Study Help, the lent. At Notre Dame this year Mardi Gras is World Hunger Coalition and CII.A which are celebrated a little earlier and a penitential lent orgainzed and run by people in the Notre Dame is out of fashion. But this weekend Mardi Gras community to help those who really need help. will still be a fine time for a fling. If you have the time, offer your services to 
February in South Bend, if not penitential, is your hall or class to work on the Mardi Gras certainly dreary, particularly when the first activities. That can be both fun and beneficial round of tests is lurking out there in the gloom. too. 
Funny ideas
Take some time off from studying or before studying and join the fun before that academic So go on over to Mardi Gras at Stepan."dark night of the soul" sets in. You'll do yourself and a lot of others a lot of 
And while you are having fun you'll be good. iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiipat kearns 
In general, conservatives seem to have some "funny" ideas, and consequently, many people seem to have some funny ideas about conservatives. For example, American conservatives voice strong


P.O. Box Q 
objections to any attempt to increase the welfare system in this country. Accordingly, many liberal spokesmen holler about the probably all are guilty of it at one greedy right-wingers who scorn the needy. Or another example: a
hosting the party. It really burned constant stream of criticism flows from conservative sources inme up to see some students come time or another. My hope though 
Conflicting 
opposition to detente. Therefore, the rebuttals come with charges of to the party, drink the beer and eat is that in the future, students will 
the food which had been supplied have a little more consideration for conservative vested interests in defense spending, and narrow­mindedness in refusing to accept communism as a viable alternative 
interests and not even offer to help pay for one another. 
system.

the party. Some of these students James [Buzz] Reynolds even had the audacity to go out all 
Dear Editor: With the beginning of this historic year, it is important that we
night party-hopping and not bring consider no only the past glories of this nation, but also the ideasany money along with them. In my
Last semster in an effort to mind, this assumed Condolences which will determine its future. The ideas, not the campaign
means they

provide better coordination of or­slogans, which give direction to the legislative acts of Congress, the
that everything would be taken
ganized campus activities, the So­initiatives of the President, and the rulings of the Court. Ideas
care of for them-taxi service, food, Dear Editor: 
cial Commission instiuted a calen­which are the product of serious reflection and investigation. For
drink-by someone else. This total 
Upon learning of the death of
dar of events. the purpose of this many of the "funny" ideas expressed by conservatives are not all 
instrument was facilitate lack of consideration by these Professor Paul C. Bartholomew, I
to the that "funny." Certainly no "funnier" than the so-called Equal
rip-off artists for those who have felt a desire to give my impression
scheduling of activities and to Rights Amendment!
gone out of their way to put on a of this great man to the Notreprevent the occurrence of conflicts. 
party leaves a lot to be desired. Dame community. The thoughts
Today it was announced that the In the 20th Anniversary issue of National Review, there is an 
are expressed as in a letter to his
Student Union is sponsoring a ski intriguing article entitled, "The Conservative Intellectual Move­This type of behavior is not wife. I hope you will find it worthy trip to Crystal Mountain on the 6th ment in America since 1845" by George H. Nash. (It is notlimited to this past weekend, but of publication. 
of February and continuing intriguing because it is about conservatives, or even less because it I'm sure has been encountered bythrough the 8th. Why was this is abo~t i~telle~tuals, but rather because it is a real effort at writingmost of those who have sponsored Dear Mrs. Bartholomew,allowed to happen? Mardi Gras is the objective history of a movement.) In his essay, Mr. Nash often parties in the past. This type of Recently, a friend informed meoperating under financial stress, deals with the principles which have been essentially common to all and the outflux of potential dealer behavior is also not restricted to of the passing away of your 
just parties, but pertains to any husband. While you will not recog­conservatives in America during the last 30 years. He cites fourand contributers may just result in nize my name, I feel compelled to basi~ _concepts held dear by the Right: (1) authority, (2) morals, (3)a non-charitable festival. social situation. The word to write to you of the respect and trad1tton, and (4) truth (particularly that achieved by the greatSecondly, the North Quad is describe this type of person is admiration your husband has gene­Classical and Christian thinkers of the past). 
again sponsoring a party in the ''mooch''. 
rated in myself and myriad others
North Dining Hall Friday February 
In this so-called Christian com­who were his students. While conservatives vary greatly in their views on laissez-faire6. Will there be any students there to enjoy this expensive proposi­
munity [if I may quote our profound economics, the supremacy of the individual, and the exact tion? We the undersigned presi­Provost] a sense of brotherhood is Your husband was a learned perimeters of government, they generally defend authority against 
man, of which Notre Dame has
dents feel that it is time for Student trying to be instilled in the student "limitless" freedom; insist on the necessity of seeking moral virtue; 
many. Your husband was a brilliant
Union to adhere to its own policies body, but from the top down. H scrutinize tradition before leaving any of it behind; and affirm the 
man, of which Notre Dame has
and make an attempt to reschedule this idea is to have any meaning at existence of absolute truths, apart from the constraints of time and 
some. More than anything else,
its event. all, it must come from the students circumstance.
Paul Bartholomew was a caring,
themselves through their actions 
helping individual with a tremend­
Bill Fallon, Keenan and attitudes. One way to demon­In themselves these ideas may not appear odd or highly
ous love for, and dedication to, his
Bob Ryan, Stanford strate this is by showing a little classroom, his students and his controversial. However, their application in the context of today's Derus Sulllvan, Grace 
common courtesy towards one an­cultural blitz steps on many liberal toes. For the solid conservatives 
life. The Lord creates no jewel
Jack Hanzel, Zahm 
other. demand an immediate halt to the current trend in our society toward 
more rare than a man such as this.
Kathy Grace, B.P. 
total relativism and positivism. (The atheistic positivism which Pat Tack, Lewis I hope the next time someone It is categorically unfair that so allows "rational" adults to justify abortion on demand in the name throws a party that the girls show many will now be denied the of ''women's rights.';And the relativism which makes pornography 
privilege of associating, learning
up with a plastic smile and no offer as good for some individuals as Michelangelo's art is for others.)
and growing on a personal basis
to help pay for the party are turned with Professor Bartholomew. For Despite the devastating confusion of modern philosophers andMoochers away. So too with the guys who me, his mind, personality and the pseudo-sophistication of the "beautiful" people, the solution to casually drop in and eat your food guidance were a priceless experie­evil is not merely to equate it with good (relevance par excellance~).
and drink your beer without paying 
nce. nor naively reduce it to physical inconvenience (positivism in its or saying thanks. 
morally degrading manifestations). This is the kind of liberal
Dear Editor: My eyes are beginning to blur, thinking which prevails in this country today. The kind of sickThis past weekend I happened to I emphasize the word offer and words are coming to mind too criteria which makes littering a ·grave social sin and homosexualhave been involved in a few because of its symbolic value. The quickly for my pen. But you must behavior a personal preference. The kind ofassininerationalization situations which caused me to small gesture of offering to help is certainly know that your husband which allows Americans, the wealthiest people in the world, toreflect upon the courtesy which a sign ~f cooperation and is al":ays has left a gap in the Notre Dame 
students have for one another it appreciated. family will truly gobble up the pill with a phony, or at least superficial, concern forThose who ration­that never be 
filled. And his memory will be the greatly overstated overpopulation problem. 
the Notre Dame-St. Mary's com-alize their selfish behavior by munity. saying their offer .wo~ldn't be cherished as long as even one of his 
students endures. By comparison, if not by content, the conservatives' "funny"
Having attended several parties accepted, do not JUstify them­He was a remarkable man. ideas look attractive. Particularly in their reverence for tradition, weover the weekend I noticed in a few selves. 
may feel encouraged. For the Right assures us that we can learn instances a total lack of considera-I'm not exempting myself from ... 
Carleton R. Kemph from the great men of the past and need not settle for the anemiction by a few students for those thi!: type of behavior, because we Class of 1975 leaders of today. 


Friday, january 30, 1976 
the observer 

Letters to a Lonely God 
snowdrift on the euergreens 


Sunday morning at six a.m., I was awakened out of a deep sleep by the ringing of the telephone. The call was from a stranger, a man forty-two years old, who told me he was dying of cancer. He had called Notre Dame Security, he said, asking to speak to a priest who might be awake. Security, hearing him speak of dying, thought at first it was a suicide threat, and notified the South Bend police. As a result, the man said, three squad cars had arrived at his house. They merely found a man alone and terrified and a little drunk, who wanted to be comforted by a priest. Afterwards, Security gave him my phone number, telling him not to caB until later in the morning. But the man, impatient for help, rang me up at six o'clock. 
He said: "My affairs arc in order; my will is made; my loved ones are taken care of. So tell me, Father, why am I afraid to die?" 
It was very chilly in my room at six o'clock on Sunday morning. The hall was perfectly still; outside, the snowdrifts lay heaped on the evergreens. It was winter, and it was January. I thought: "In such a season, how bleak a funeral must be." 
I talked with him, mostly asking ques­tions, because I had no answers. All the time, I was remembering a January dawn two years ago, when I myself would have liked to talk to a priest. 
I had been living for two and a half weeks of the Christmas vacation in a cheap hotel room on Forty-second street. The rectory where I had hoped to stay was filled up. so I had moved into the Holland Hotel next door to the rectory. It was not a bad hotel, merely inexpensive and, of course, a Iittle shabby, but I was only paying seven 
: tu week preuiewt , ,,:

: om o ne1: 
Two giant films will be shown on different channels at the same time tonight. ABC will be airing Deliverance on the same time as Bob & Carol & Ted & Allee will be on CBS. The first of these, Deliverance, is probably the best. It's the talc of four Georgian men who seek out the last unpolluted river in America for a would-be leisurely canoe-trip. Produced in the years when going back to Walden was the aspiration of both rednecks and loose-hairs it provided its audience with underlying social comment courtesy of its author James Dickey--the evil in man is inescapable, and the highlights of our existence (as in this movie) are relaxing moments such as listening to banjo music in the wilderness. The movie is violent but Hollywood has done worse before this and since then--a protruding bone from the knee of Burt Reynolds may be the worst for the squeamish. And the last camera shot to the water at the end of the film where the hand of a dead man floats to the surface is climactic enough to generate a few Breen-Phillips nightmares. Count on good work by the censors, .however. It was nominated for Best Picture in 1972 and stars (besides Reynolds) Jon Voight, and Ned Beatty. Bob & Carol & Ted & Allee, that celebrated, but outdated, sex-and­social-morals yarn about a swinging couple and a sqaure one starring Dyan Cannon and Elliot Gould as the squares and Natalie Wood and Robert Culpas the swingers can be seen at 9:00, in the same time-slot as Deliverance. 
Klute can be seen 9:00, Ch. 16, Sat. Beware: not only did Judith Christ like this dollars a night. I had a room on the seventeenth floor with windows looking onto the tall buildings of mid-town Manhat-
tan. The only real problem with the room was that they never turned the heat off. For two and a half weeks, I kept the windows open, and the fan going. Despite the energy crisis of that year; despite blizzards, cold snaps, and freezing rain outside, the radiator kept banging up the heat until I was convinced they had camped me in an oven. Night and day without respite, I steamed in that room for all the hours I was in it, meditating on the punishment that dooms men to flames. I couldn't afford to move. I couldn't live like the street people; no matter how long you pound the sidewalks, there always comes a time in a New York winter when you must return to a place called home. EventuaBy, living there naked like a steamed calm, next to an open window, I got sick with respiratory ailments. And one morning at five o'clock, I woke up unable to breathe. I knew that this was it; I felt certain that Michael was rowing the boat ashore. 
Now dying in the cold dawn of January in a cheap hotel on 42nd street, with the dimmed lights of Times Square skyscrap­ers blinking in the distance, was not my idea of a Happy Death. "What happened to aB those Nine First Fridays?" I wondered to myself, and then: "Who'B tell Mother and Darby O'Gill?" I guess the mobs of angels only show up to comfort you at the actual moment when the Sweet Chariot is Swinging Low; those angels don't show up for a dress rehearsal. That morning in New York, I knew only the terror of dying, and none of its consola­tions. Sweating, feverish, gasping for 
film (therefore imr-:J : .. g that it is terrible) but Jane Fonda won an Oscar for playing herself in this 1971 tale about a caB girl. It is not the film it was made out to be, but it 
still a fairly good movie. Just catch it if you can. It also stars 
The Honeymooners with Jackie Gleason, Art Carney, Audrey Meadows and Jane Kean is back this Monday as a special on ABC (28). How sweet it should be. The only trouble here is that Rich Little's new variety show premiers at the same time 
(8:00) on an alternative channel (16). It seems to be a television conspiracy. 
Another conspiracy involves bringing Sonny And Cher back together again. 1 The big networks never learn, do they? At 
8:00 on CBS Sunday. 
George Bernard Shaw's CaeSIU and Cleopatra will be the presentation of NBC's Hall of Fame this Sunday at S. Starring is Sir Alec Guiness and Genevieve Bujold. 
Sports 
The NO-Maryland game can be seen at 
4:00 on 16 Saturday at the same time Indiana and Wisconsin meet on ch. 22. Purdue vs. Illinois will precede the NO-Maryland match at 2 on 16. 
A preview to the Winter Olympics can be seen Tuesday at 9:00 on 28. The 1963 Rose Bowl will be the focus of The Way It Was Thursday at 8:00 on 34. The dramatic Wisconsin come-back against USC made that game one of the most important upsets in recent Rose Bowl history. 
The NBA AU-Star Game in Philadelphia can be seen Tuesday at 9:30 on 22. 

SMC hosts Nureyev &Beckett 
Nureyev's Don Quixote, a ballet Dim classic will be presented Sunday In O'Laughlln Auditorium. Tickets are Sl and the showings are at 1:00, 3:30, 6:00 and 
8:30. 
Samuel Beckett's Endgame, his "ap· ocalyptlc vision of life In the aftermath of a nuclear holocaust " will be performed tonight at 8 p.m. In O'Laughlln Auditorium at St. Mary's. General Admission tb: are $2.50. 


Reverend Robert Griffin 
breath, I had no sense of the Father's eye on the falling sparrow. I fear I was rather secular in death--or in the situation I considered to be death--wondering like any atheist if it sounded derelict to be found dead in a flop house. Of course it wasn't really a flop house, only a shabby address. Nevertheless, I hoped for the obituary notice to be carefully edited. 
So, last Sunday, in the early hours of one winter morning, I thought of that other winter morning two years ago when I was so badly frightened. None of my terror had belonged to death at all, of course, but only to a life that had no intention of being surrendered. I thought to myself: is he merely seeing horror at the bottom of his glass? Is he re-living the bad dreams, out of heavy meals, at the end of a nightmare? But he spoke of living in pain, as though he were coping with debilitating sickness as well as with fear. Every night since he called, I have slept very close to the phone, hoping he will never need to call again, yet wanting to be there if the priest he needs to talk to should be me. 
Perhaps I should find out who the man is. Maybe that is what I should do as a Christian and as a priest; perhaps I should call him and say: "Are you still afraid of death?" 
Only I have no answer to give him if he says, "yes"; not now, not in January, when the snowdrifts are on the evergreens, and funerals are such bleak affairs. Yet one gathers faith for such a month. One gathers tears and laughter from an April mood, and flowers from a Maytime. Then there are memories of the high noons of 
June, the warmth of July, the fleecy clouds 
of August, the sudden cool of September, 
and the late-lingering blossoms and the 
colors of October. If November is the 
graying month, there are night skies in 
December when the stars shout joy at the 
darkness. If January dawns on a landscape 
of death, each bud and root and grass and 
tree will stir again when springtime chases 
winter from the meadow. As earth has its 
seasons, so has man, moving through the 
changing beauty of his life until, after his 
graying, he comes again to immortal 
summers. 
January cannot see herself as April, and June forgets she will become October. A man can anticipate his life as a season cannot: the lad of twenty thinks that forty has no fun, and forty thinks that sixty is a bore. Yet moment by moment, increasing age heaps one blessing after another on us until the blessing coming as sleep brings us to the final peace. We will find ourselves as ready for death as we were for any other age or experience that life has prepared us for. 
I have known, and do know, the fear of death. But I think that when dying come as the ultimate adventure to that affair called life, I will be as in Jove with it as I am with the present moment of my life, and I will know it as a going home to be with friends. 
But I cannot prove it on the telephone: in fact, I can never prove it. Especially, I can never prove it in a winter's dawn when the snowdrifts are on the evergreens. But maybe the evergreens themselves can prove something, when you notice that they have survived the snow. 


~~Let's go drinking'' 
EDITOR'S NOTE: This article Is the third and last part of a series focusing on the drinking problem among students at Notre Dame, and with alcohoUsm In general. 
Several colleges have also set up either 
exploratory or implemental task forces to 
initiate programs of alcohol awareness. 
The exploratory task force generally invest­
igates the problem and makes recommen­
dations in regard to possible action. An 
implemental task force usually has an 
exploratory component but tt also involved 
in setting up possibly even running a 
program. 
An implemental task force is in operation at Indiana University. Its pilot program, called "Booze and You's," includes a 13-minute film made by the task force and four values clarification discussion exer­
cises. The task force consists of seven members of the faculty and administration, two resident assistants and three students. The final evaluation of the pilot program will be completed this month. 
"There is a possibility of forming a task force at Notre Dame," Barnum noted. She said it would include 12 or 14 people, with members of the faculty and administration "who know about alcohol use and are interested in a task force," one or two people from the South Bend community and a few students. She stated it would be important to include students in the program. Conference delegates also noted the importance of peer group," a Universi­ty of Iowa representative pointed out. "We should start with students and involve them all the way along the line.'' 
Other methods of promoting responsibil­ity in drinking suggested at the alcohol conference included setting up campus drug and alcohol centers, holding sympos­ia, showing films and sponsoring speakers. Barnum said she will talk with members of the administration to see what can be done at Notre Dame. She added she is consider­ing showing a film and having discussions in the residence halls. 
The alcohol problem on college cam­puses across the country is partly caused by an absence of alcohol guidelines in the American society, according to several delegates to the alcohol conference. Be­cause there are no clear guidelines on what constitutes safe versus unsafe drinking practices, they said, those who do develop alcohol problems often cannot recognize they have these problems before they become chronic alcoholics. "American society tells the young two things," noted Diana Merten, deleiZate from Notre Dame, 

kath~ mills 

"you can't drink until you're 18 or 21, and then you can. In between, no one tells you where or how or why." She added, "Families don't introduce alcohol in the homes. This promotes a mystique that makes it attractive to youth.'' Other societies use alcohol, Susan Maloney from Johns Hopkins University pointed out, but they do not have serious drinking problems because they have definite norms and rules regarding its use. Pheli?s said the federal government should stimulate in public discourse regulations regarding how, when and where alcohol should be used in the 
u.s. 

LaVonne Chenault, representative from Haskell Indian College in Kansas, noted the absence of guidelines and traditions in drinking can make the peer group influ­ence to drink even greater. She also pointed out adults can have definite negative effects on youth with their examples. Parents teach drinking patterns through the way they drink, Chenault said. She stated faculty and administration members who have drinking problems set examples for students. "Students look up to these people. They're supposed to identify with them,'' she said. Barnum said she thinks there are Notre Dame faculty members who have drinking problems. "Alcohol is a general problem," she commented. "We have to look at all the people in the University." 
With the alcohol consumption of Amer­icans at an all-time high, the NIAAA offers a simple test for drinkers to determine whether they are merely "social drinkers" or problem drinkers. Although the test is not a foolproof diagnosis, it is an indication of a drinking problem. 
Do you think and talk about drinking often? Do you drink more now than you used to? 
Do you sometimes gulp drinks? 
Do you often take a drink to help you relax? Do you drink when you are alone? Do you sometimes forget what happened when you were drinking? 

Do you keep a bottle hidden somewhere at home or work .. for quick pick-me-ups? Do you need a drink to have fun? Do you ever just start drinking without 
really thinking about it? 
Do you drink in the morning to relieve a hangover? 
If a drinker answers "yes" to three or fewer of these questions, the NIAAA classifies him as a "social drinker." However, if a drinker has four or more "yes" answers, he may be one of the nine million Americans with drinking problems. 
\ 
-,. 

t 



Frosh receive aid in major choice 
~ 
'I 
by Barb Lanhenry 
information will be generated by also provide academic and career meetings will be held at the same Advance registration for the fall
Staff Reporter 
experts from the colleges, he interest inventory tests for the time and all of the freshmen are to semester of the 1976-77 academic 

l I 
~ To aid freshmen with the trans­~ ition into sophomore year, the I Freshman Year of Studies and the I colleges have established a new ~ program that will start the week of 
Feb. 2. ~ Dr. Emil T. Hofman, dean of I Freshman Year of Studies, noted that the transition into sophomore 
year consists of making the choice I of a college orprogramand beginn­I ing the procedures.I 
' I 
I Making the choice consists of I 
gathering information, he further 
stated. To aid the students with I this, "spotlight" programs will be I 
I 
presented with the purpose of I "making available to the freshmen I 
the reliable and accurate informa­tion that they need and want about
I 
all the college programs they are
I 
considering," Hofman said.
I 
,,..l Hofman continued to say that each college will "spotlighted for a
I 
period of two weeks. Information
I 
about the structure and curriculum 
I 
of the college and its departments
I 
will be given . All of this
I 
l 
stated. 
Hofman emphasized, "We've got to get students out and impress upon them that we're trying to help them make the decision. It is extremely important that they avail themselves to all of the opportun­ities offered by these programs." 
In the first week of a "spotlight" program the Freshman Learning Resource Center will provide in­formation through video, audio and printed mediums. "The audio and video tapes are designed to sum­marize the pertinent information about the college or department," he stated. 
The second seek will be pre­sented live by the individual col­leges. Hofman said that some of the colleges will feature talks by deans, open houses or classroom visits, and all of the colleges will provide consulting services to the individual freshman. 
Designed to aid in the decision to making process, the program will students who are undecided about their intended college program. 
Hofman said that the students, with the information they collect­ed from the "spotlight" programs will hopefully discuss matters with their parents over spring break and be ready to finalize their college program during the period of March 22-26. 
Hofman then continued saying that the student is now ready to start procedures. First, he must finalize a program by notifying his counselor of his intended program. The counselor will then forward his records to the college or program he chooses. Hofman stated that because of the curriculum for the freshman year, it will be more important than ever before that adequate information be trans­mitted to the colleges before ad­vance registration. 
On March 31, pre-advance reg­istration meetings will be held. Hofman explained that all of the 
Rabat protests illusion of peace 
W ASHINGTON--AP--Signaling a stand on future Mideast negotia­tions, Israeli Prime Minister Yitz­hak Rabin declared today that "we are going to stand firm against illusions of so-called peace." 
14-year-o/d girl escapes arsenal 
CHICAGO AP -A 14-year-old girl missing for 13 days escaped from a locked closet of a South Side apartment where she said she was held captive and raped rapeatedly, police reported Thursday. 
The high school honor student returned home Wednesday and led authorities to the apartment where they confiscted 25 firearms, 35,000 rounds of ammunition, 25 smoke grenades, 50 parachute flares, 30 pounds of gunpowder and bullet making equipment. 
Police said they hve seized a suspect after a high-speed, 10-mile chase by 20 squad cars on the 
South Side. They halted the driver by ramming his car. Police declinedtogive details of the girl's 13-day captivity but said she had been given food and drink. She told them that when she heard the suspect leave the apartment she escaped the closet by using the coat hanger to knock out the dey in the lock and then used the hanger to pull the key under the· door. 
The girl. who was treated at a hospital and released, said she was pushed into a car by a man about 9:30p.m. on Jan. 15, shortly after she left a girl friend's home. The girl's parents reproted her missing 
In a speech before the National 
Press Club, Rabin said the fate of Lebanon's Christian minority serves as a reminder to Israel "not to be under any false illusions about the future." 
Rabin's speech followed a White House meeting with President Ford, the third such session during Rabin's U.S. visit. Describing the meeting , a White House spokes­man said the administration was continuing efforts to promote a Middle East peace. 
Rabin reiterated Israel's willing­ness to "take risks for peace." But he again ruled out negotiations with the Palestine Liberation Or­ganization and said that "without the active participation of Jordan it will be impossbile to negotiate peace." 
In 1974 the Arab states decided at a summit meeting to give the PLO, headed by Yasir Arafat, sole rights to represent Palestinians west of the Jordan River, including those who are Jordanian citizens. 
Rabin said the Palestinian ques­tion can be solved "in the context of a Palestinian-Jordanian State" and that Israel would be willing to negotiate at Geneva or elsewhere with a Jordian delegation including Palestinians. 
In Lebanon, he said, the Christ­ian community is being subject to force and intolerance. "What goes on in Lebanon," he said, "serves as a reminder to us what might be the fate of a minority in the sea of Arab counties." 
Halls allowed to shorten parietals, but not lengthen 
by Joe Gill StaffReporter 

A memorandum confirming 
parietal hours was released yes­terday by Bro. Just Paczesny, vice-president for student affairs. It was signed by Fr. Hesburgh on Dec. 5, and sent to all hall rectors 
The memorandum's purpose was to restate the approved SLC rec­0mmendations on visitation hours. Of particular note was that the halls may choose shorter hours of visita­tion, but not longer hours. Also , parietal h<?ur_ v~ol~tions are now under the JUrtsdtctton of the Dean the Hall Judicial Board. 
The memorandum was divided into two sections, the first stating that the beginning of visitation hours are at 11:00 a.m. , except for the home football Saturdays when the visitation hours begin at 10:00 a.m. 
The second section stated that requests to extend the end of parietals can be made, but only "rare, justifiable, and special cir-cum stance is this permissible.'' In these cases, the request is made by the rector to the Dean of Students and ~pproved by him. 
Netther Br. Just nor Dean Roe-
at 11:30 p.m. that night. of Students and not under that of mer had any comment on this. 




Ir--------------------------,
GENERALSTORE 
I 

"SALE DAYS ARE HERE!" I : FEATURING: FADED GLORY I : ALL MEN' WINTER COATS 30% OFF I 
t SOME SWEATER & SmRTS 20% OFF t I
IOPEN: 10 to 9 MONDAY THRU j7-.-.:..-.~..... I 
t SATURDAY tkc. ,,· I
l 12 to 5 SUNDAY lr, ,1 I t t . ·f t I 
11


t 1621 SOUTH BEND AVE· t ·!:~ t I 
1 

• · · •••

t (BEHIND LINEBACKER) f,,, .... t ·1. 
attend the meeting for the college or department he has decided to enter. 
He continued saying that the purpose of the meeting is to welcome the students, to present the details of the curriculum for sophomore year and to instruct the students in the procedures to be followed at advance registration. 

SAVE YOUR TICKET STUB! AL PACINO DOESN'T WIN AN OSCAR NOMINATION ON FEB.17 FOR HIS ROLE IN DOG DAY AFTERNOON* YOU'LL WIN A FREE PASS. 
MOVIE BALLET NUREYEV'S 'OONQUIX0TE' 
auoou NlJREYEV'S -·

"OON QUIXOTE"-RUDOLF NUREYEV ROBERT HELPMANN LUCETIE ALDOUS-~~ 
Feb 1st -Sunday Olaughlin Aud. 1 :00, 3:30, 6:00, 8:30 $1.00 donation. 

~------------------------,
I ----SPECIAL ----SPECIAL ----I
i * VALENTINE SPECIAL * I 
i 

year will take place during the period of April 7-14. 
In a letter to the deans of the colleges, Hofman stated "Because of the combined good efforts of the Freshman Year of Studies and the colleges, the Class of 1979 should make the best ever transition from the freshman to the sophomore year. 
WITH THIS COUPON I 
NOWTHRU FEB.14 1 

RECEIVE: I 
I
REDKEN PROTEIN CONDITIONER $1.50 
SHAMPOO HAIRCUT,
I 

AND BLOW DRY TOTAL VALUE NOW ONLY ALSO 

20% OFF ANY PERMANENT I 
I
WE CARRY A COMPLETE LINE OF 
I REDKEN PRODUCTS. I 
I 
OPEN 6 DAYS A WEEK, INCLUDING I I
THURS. & FRIDAY EVENINGS I I 


~VIVIAN's I I 
I
'11.\IH DESIGN STllDJO 
I I I203 N. MICHIGAN I . .P_h. 232·2194 I I 
I I $8.50 I I I
$10.00 

I I$6.50 
I I I 
11

L . I·..... ''. I L. ---COUPON----COUPON---_..I 
----------------------·~,.__....,.._ -------------­
-

the observer 
9 


Sophia program meeting planned for Thursday 
will be held Thursday February 5 at 
by PhD Cacldey 7:30 p.m. in room 254 of the 
Staff Reporter Hayes-Healy Building. 
Dr. Charles Parnell, director of 
Freshmen wishing to enter the the Foreign Studies Program, ex­Sophomore Year Abroad Foreign plained that all of the other Studies program can still enroll in programs require a good knowl­the Sophia program in Tokyo, edge of the language of the host Japan. An informational meeting country, and that a candidate 
Income tax information available on your form 
The revenue sharing residence question on your 1975 Individual Income Tax Return will provide the Census Bureau with statistical information to use as a basis for more accurate distribution fo rev­enue sharing funds. 
James W. Caldwell, District Director of Internal Revenue Ser­vice for Indiana, explained that revenue sharing funds are returned to state and local governments to use for their own purposes. 
The questions are necessary, said Caldwell, because the tax­payer's mailing address does not always adequately reflect the need­ed information. The four questions , located immediately below the address line onform 1040, request 
information about the taxpayer's city, county, and township.According to Caldwell, the only 
question among the revenue shar­ing items to cause any concern among taxpayers has been the one 
asking for the taxpayer's township. You can identify your township through any of several conveniant 
sources. If vou are a homeowner 
For job seekers 
you need oniy look at your closing papers. Taxpayers who own motor vehicles will aften, but not always, find their township printed on their vehicles will often, but not always, find their township 
You can identify your township through any of several convenient sources. If you are a homeowner you need only look at your closing papers. Taxpayers who own motor vehicle registration. In many counties, the taxpayer's voter reg­istration. In many counties, the 
taxpayer's voter registration card will show the township. County 
Assessor's Offices will have ac­curate township information, and if you live in a community with an 
active League of Women's Voters, that organization will have correct township information. 
Taxpayers having difficulty with any of the residence questions are also welcome to write to:Bureau of 
the Census; Residence QuestionD Washington D.C. 20233, or to call collect at 812-948-2111 weekday~
8-5 p.m. EST. 
would need a very good high school language background eo enter the program at this point in the year. The Sophia program does not require a previous knowledge of Japanese, although it is highly recommended. 
Notre Dame students at Sophia 
University in Tokyo are in the 
International Division where 
courses are taught in English for Japanese and multinational students. 
The program differs from ones taught in Innsbruck, AustriaD Angers, France; Rome ltalyD and Mexico City, Mexico where all courses are given in the language of the host country . Candidates for the Taiwan program are required to take two years of Chinese, although their classes are in English also. 
There are approximately seven students already enrolled for next year. There are eight students presently in Japan. The program was started in 1967 at Sophia University, a Jesuit University which is CC'mpletely integrated into the Japanese university system. 
Students are required to take a number of courses, including 12 to 15 credit hours of Japanese lan­guage. The Academic year is 
comprised of two semesters of normal length and a short six seek session in late spring. "Japan is of professional inter­
est," for BA students Parnell said, and provides more than just op­portunity for personal develop­
ment. He said that relatively few American businessmen know that much about Japan. He speculated that a basic knowledge of the language and a first-hand know!­





Market strengthens slowly • ';.::~Jc~ ~~p~~ ~: 
by Tim Boyle Staff Reporter 
Although some corporationshave scheduled interviews with Notre Dame seniors for the spring se­mester, the job picture is not as bleak as it was in the spring of 1975, when twenty-five pe-rcent of 
the companies cancelled their 
interviews. According to Director 
of the Notre Dame Placement Bureau Richard Willemin, the job market is slowly improving for upcoming graduates. 
At this time last year companies were not hiring new personnel because of the unstable economic situation. Willemin attributed this employer apprehension to the energy crisis, inflation and the surplus of potential employees. 
Industries have resumed expan­sion recently and employers are once again '"cautiously hiring" Willemin said. •... 
It is foo soon for the Placement Bureau to have any definite figures but the skilled graduates, accoun-
Cinema 

tants and engineers, seem to be in 
the greatest demand. Willemin said this is true becaus~ students in these fields need httle or no training on the job and their skills are easily transferable to other depa_rtme~ts ~ithin a corporation. 
Wtllemmsatdthatemployersarereluctant to hire a student with an Arts and Letters degree, unless he has an outstanding record, because 
of the high cost of training such a 
person. to cancel interviews in the spring since they often fill their quotas for It is normal for many companies 
new employees during the fall, according to Willemin. When jobs 
arc  scarce these quotas  are  filled  
quickly  because  students  often  
accept their first job offers.  

Willemin stressed that it is in the best interest of the University to place its graduates in major com-panics. He said alumni and business contributions are a finan­cia! necessity to any university and thus it is essential that Notre Dame alumni be in key positions where th h 1 th · 1 t d
ey may e p etr a rna rna er an 
presents 


LAST TANGO IN PARI 
Starring Merion Brando 
in the uncut version 
SATURDAY SUNDAY 
JAN 31 FEB 1 7:00, 9:30, 12:00 ADMISSION $1 Engineering Auditorium Patron Cards available at the 
future Notre Dame graduates. • 
Finally, Willemin noted that • ~ecef!tlY more graduates are. se~k-• mg Jobs rather than contmumg • their education. Last year almost forty-five percent of the graduating 
h 

class entered the job market. 



r-------­
a 
f' 
' ' 
I 
f I 
a 
' 
a 
f ' 
a 
' 
a 
1 ' 

t . t 
~ 
s 

edge of the poeple and country would be useful in business trans­
actions. 

The Anahuac program program in Mexico City is also valuable for business majors but Parnell said this program would be closed to persons not already enrolled in the intensive Spanish course. 
Parnell mentioned that there are a large number of Business majors in the Foreign Study program this year. He said there are over 40 freshmen with BA intents. Stu­dents often go on to take business degrees after returning from the Sophomore Year Abroad program, Parnell added. 

The informational meeting will be open to all interested freshmen, although Parnell said it was prim­arliy for students with Business Administration intents. He said that representatives from the 
College of Business Administra­tion would be at the meeting, as well as former participants in the program. 

NO  'DIE SAN QUFNDN DRAMA WORHSHOP Irodudimof  
MC  ENDGAME by SamEl Bedet  
JANUARYao, 1976 a s:oo P.M.  
All Seas $2.50 (Std-~ $2.00)  O'IAlQIUNAlDIDRIUM (ONE PEEFl)RMA~E ONLY) 

Hme: 284-4176 


ATTENTION•. 
MED-GRAD-LA W SCHOOL 
APPUCANTS 
I.D. PHOTOGRAPHS FOR YOUR 
APPLICATION FORMS 
(4) 2x2 B&W PRINTS $3.00. 
EACH ADDT'L -$.50 (minimum 4 addt'l) TOMORROW 10-3 MORRISSEY CHAPEL. 
FOR MORE INFO CALL 3520
i ·······~-·~..-.
ERRATUM 
SHOULD HAVE·  PLEASE CLIP  •  
TillS ADDENDUM TO YOUR  •  
QU.~"CKJE SCHEDULE·  ••  

~' AAA&A.~AAAAAAAA.oiiii.~A .&.~~~~............-...-Jilt~~~~ 


~ f6VtJL 
Red Foillleart 1 lb. $3.7 5 

C A N D I E 5 
Satin Heart ·lb. $ ... 

9 :for ~our 'Vafevtive 
.\:'"" 

\4~~~~·,· 
....~ ·~... 

€.~->·'('~~.~;~::~~;~~!::-\, i 
m(A(· 

•r 
~aturcfau
uj 0 



~£.,.uarg 14
~etJ1 j 
Assorted Chocolates lib. $2.95 

NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
'----------~~l.¥~i.&.II...J..U.~~~.,...~----.....,,~ '-~---------------------___ 
., .'. . . .. ........ .. .
~ 

f I
1 
a 
' 

a 
' 

1a 
' f 

a 
' 

a 
' 

t'a 
lI 
t at I 
' 
t 

' 
t 

' 
t 

' ­
t 

II 
.J 





Kissinger intensifies anti-Soviet foreign policy 
anti-Soviet groups in Angola of criticism of Congress for cutting off Kissinger said the question of an nificance in shaping our future
WASHINGTON AP-Secretary of 
"national treachery." all aid to anti-Soviet groups in Angolan government and the issue relationships. with the Soviet
State Henry A. Kissinger Thursday 
In Lusaka, Zambia, officials of a the southwestern section of Africa. of a Soviet presence there is now Union," Kissinger said. 
outlined an intensified hard line 
West-leaning faction, the National Kissenger's call for a freer hand secondary to the over-all issue of "A demonstration of a lack of
anti-Soviet foreign policy, saying 
Union for the Total Independence in the conduct of foreign policy met world stability. resolve could lead the Soviets to
the United States must be prepared 
of Angola UNITA, reported there objections, particularly from sub-"What the United States does great miscalculation, thereby .,.._.
to react against any massive Rus­
was no significant fighting on the committee chairman Dick Clark, when confronted with a challenge ging us into a major confrontal
sian adventure. 
front with Soviet-backed forces in D-Iowa, and Sens. George McGov-like Angola can be of great sig-which neither of us wants."
He told a Senate subcommittee the Angolan civil war for the fourth 

studying Angola that "I am not ern, D-S.D.; Joseph Biden, D-Del., ..--------------------------,
straight day. 
saying we will police every area in 
1
an~.h~~ff~~ds~i~se~o!~~~~io~a_I I HELP! HELP' 
Kissinger appeared before a op-1the world . . . but wherever the Senate Foreign Relations subcom­pos1t1on to g!Vmg the adm1mstra-I •Soviet Union moves hostilely, we mittee considering U.S. policy in tion more flexibility in the conduct I Imust commit ourselves 
"I believe we must discourage Angola. offoreign policy W~S rooted in such I To the student who "borrowed " the 1976 I the view that the Soviet Union can In his statement, he repeated past excesses as Vietnam. 1 I move anywhere it wants without 1Summer Employment Directory of the United J 
serious risk,'' Kissenger said. 

Social Commission begins
Kissinger also said, "The ad­1 States from the Placement Bureau, other I 
ministration is now seriously con­sidering overt financial aid for reorganization at SMC I students are asking for it. Kindly return. I 
Angola and we will soon be 
consulting with the Congress on I Everyone will benefit. I this possibility." He gave no money, but to provide a service." details. by Brigid Rafferty She noted that the Commission's 
.L--------------------------• 
Meanwhile, in Moscow, the of-Staff Reporter presentation of "Funny Lady" last SUNDAY MASSES [Main Church]ficial Soviet newspaper Izvestia weekend was very successful.
·d th R · t t In an effort to carry out its plans 
sa1 e uss1an governmen wan s "February is usually a lull month 5:15 P.M. Sat. Rev. Robert Griffin, CSCfor this semester, St. Mary's Social 
an AngoIa settlement based on a for us," she continued, "because coalition government "of all the Commission is presently reorgan-of the amount of formals different 
9:30 A.M. Sun. Rev. Edward Malloy, CSC
patriotic forces" in the country. It izing itself. dorms and classes hold then." did not say which groups it "We're redoing our committees Tentative events planned for this 
10:45 A.M. Sun. Rev. Vincent Dwyer, OCSD
considered patriotic. and trying to get more freshmen semester include a late-skate and The article was seen in Moscow involved in our activities," stated work on An Tostal. as more conciliatory than previous Molly McKenna, social commis-There are presently 19 memberrs 
12:15 P.M. Sun. Rev. Bill Toohey 
declarations on Angola. sioner. "We're trying to get new in the Social Commission. Anyone In Washington, the State De-ideas to work on, to help those here interested in joining or receiving 
Evensong will be at 4:30 Sunday in Lady partment refused comment on the who are complaining about nothing information can call Molly McKen-
Chapel with homillst Sr. Josephine Ford. 
report. One official noted that the to do. Our purpose 1s not to make na at 4600. same dispatch accused the two ~-----------------------------------------------------., 
Peace Corps-Vista! a ~-thaeLf, volunteers wanted 1 V ft 
I
ACTION-PEACE CORPS-VISTA recruiters will use a newly develop­ed "pre-slot" when interviewing I 


I REALISTIC: ..
applicants Monday through Thurs­I day, the week of Feb. 2-5, 1976. I Representatives will set up an I information table from 9 a.m. daily I 

:1 FOR THE MUSIC-MINDED
in the Main Concourse of Notre Dame's Memorial Library. Inter­views will be held Wednesday, Feb. 4 in the Placement Center. 
I
In addition a slide show featuring 
I
slides taken by volunteers while on 





SAVE
assignment will be presented in the I Amphitheatre, Room 1C of La I Fortune Hall Monday, Feb. 2 at I 6:30p.m. 
I 





saoso
The pre-slot method is a means 
I

of matching applicants with speci­
I

fics overseas jobs. Using this 
I

method, in effect since Jan. 15, the 
I

recruiter can quickly determine the 
AND GET A FAMOUS REALISTIC® 
applicant's chances of becoming a I 
HOME STEREO MUSIC SYSTEM
volunteer. After a series of I interviews a recruiter phones AC I 
• Realistic STA-90 AM-FM Stereo
TION Washington, D.C., and I places the applicant's name on a I Receiver with Two Tape reserve list list. Due to attrition Monitors!
I 

and alternate plans there are • Two Optimus-18 Walnut Veneer
I I
several candidates for each posi­
Floor/Shelf Speaker Systems 
I
tion. The application is processed 
• Realistic LAB-100 Manual I
and medical exams are completed. 
Turntable with Base and $39.95
Within six seeks the applicant I 
knows the dates to be ready for RealisticIADC Elliptical Cartridge I training. I During the recruiting campaign, Regular Separate Items Price .. 639.80 I 
the second at the University of 
I 
Notre Dame during this 1975-76 
I
school year, the recruiters plan to pre-slot for training programs be­ginning April through June. 
Tne recruiters are specifically interested in graduating seniors with skills in Business, Education, Math, Science, Home Economics, Music, Social Work and Liberal Arts. Recruiters are also available to talk with South Bend and Elkhart area residents and students from (')) ~"' ":~, }~~" ~"l
. and you can ~~ ' ...""' '~<S•( ,c" 
nearby colleges. Phillip Skiles, former PEACE CHARGE IT t --l ... 
.~~ f~
At Radio Shack 

CORPS volunteer in Ghana, will I' • 1i If • head the recruiting team. Other recruiters include: Bill Magee, former VISTA volunteer in Macon, Georgia; Jeff Smith, former PEACE CORPS volunteer in the Dominican Republic and Julia Meek, former PEACE CORPS vol­unteer in Sierre Leone. 
1971. Other ACTION programs include: Foster Grandparent Pro­gram,· Retired Senior Volunteer Program, the Senior Companion Program, ACTION Cooperative 
Volunteers and University Year for ACTION. 
-~ ,~~.·.~
............................. .. .. 
. . . .... . . ... ...... 


..... 

Shakespearian film festival returns to campus 
by Bob Brink throughout the spring semester. 
Staff Reporter The series, jointly sponsored by the 
A schedule of ten Shakespearean English Department and the Stu­films featuring many reknown di­dent Union, is similar to a highly rectors and classic acting perfor­successful Shakespeare festival mances, will be presented here that was offered in the fall of 1973. 

Color copier art displays to show at Moreau Gallery 
Art from a color copier? Michi­ana residents will be able to judge for themselves beginning Satur­day, Jan. 31 at Saint Mary's Moreau Gallery. The Generative Systems show features the work of five artists working with color-in­color machines to achieve a rather astounding array of results. 
The 3M Company developed the firts color sopying system in 1968. Called the Color-In-Color machine it was originally intended for office copying of graphs, charts, and diagrams. In the years since its invention, however, the machine has been used in everything from advertising, textile design, and engineering, as well as the fine arts. 
Jim Raymo, assistant professor in the Saint Mary's Department of Art, and the first area artist to work in generative systems sees the copier technique as an extension of the eye and hand, ,much like a camera. "The machines are in­credibly versatile instruments," 
Raymo said. "They can produce 
just about any desired effect. The ···•••••'~•••••••••••••"••••M\<;., naa\~•••••• L----~~.;.JlW-~~~--.1 

( * Observer C/assifieds] 
WANTED 

Wanted: 2 Marquette tickets. Call Jim 1767 278 Dillon. 
Need 5 tix to Davidson game. Call 1031 or 1135. 
Need tv.o Maryland tickets. Call Tom 8684. 
Volunteer.; needed: to visit short-term and emergency psychiatric patients at 1\Aerroriai Hospital. training and trans­portation provided. Contact Adrienne at 7308 (8 :30-5) 
Rlde needed to F\!oria or Quincy, Ill area Feb. 5 or 6 Call Karen 6752. 
Need Marquette and Maryland tickets. Call Henry at 272-5133. 
Desperately need Marquette tickets. call Sheila, 8135. 
Desperately need 4 non-student tickets to Villanova. Cali L.aTy 283-1791. 
Must have 5 GAtlx, any Saturday game. Call Terry, 1609. 
HOUSEMATEWANTED: AT1124 Cor­by $75·&-MONTH, PLUS UTIUTIES. CALL 288-8417. 
Need 2 Man!uette studenttbc. Al3388, 1715. , , • • ,,, , , •• , ¥.I.• ••• ~ 
only limit seems to be the artist's imagination.'' 
The Moreau exhibit, which runs through Feb. 26 includes works by the following artists: William Lar­son, Philadelphia; Ellen Land­Weber, Arcata California; Thomas 
F. Barrow, Albuquerque; Cherty Leonard, Los Angeles; and Keith Smith, Chicago. The show is supported in part by a grant from the Indiana Arts Commission. Moreau Gallery hours are Noon to 
5:00 daily. The public is admitted 


without char,ge.



i··riMiVrP·xRrv·s·roin:···iiiltliiJr;;;;;-;;;~-;-1 
:OPEN : MON -SAT 9am -11 pm: 1 ........AU-AYI.A''0 !!!· 1! SUNDAy 12noon _ 1 1 pm !I A LAUGH FILLED FUN FLICK! J : COLD BEER,WINE, LIQUOR, :I 8111119 NITIII •••••11189 I 
: GORMET FOODS :I ~·!~~~~ .., .. ··"····' I
i 3114 S. 11 St. NILES, MICHIGAN! I -~~~rsk::~::itel IT111111 .·~ .····.. I : "BIGGEST LITTLE : 1 ~ ~\ rronWNIN£RtrosOA-~IXJ.MH)II(n,(rl.flWI 1Kl'il 1-, . 1
1 1
• LIOUOR STOR~ IN 'J.IJr! ll N" • -. ~ "~ 
Need tix for Maryland 8386. 
Desperately need 2 Maryland tickets. Call 272-6086 after 6 P.M. 
Need ride to Madison ~kend of Feb. 27. Call 7906. 
Need 8 tickets lor Maryland. call Joe at 287-5113. 
I need GA and student tickets tor Marquette. Give me a break please. call Pat 1654. 
Desperately need 5 tickets to Maryland game. Call Mike after 6 P.M. 288-0088 
Need 2 GA tix to Maryland. Call 7471. 
Wanted: Volunteer.; for the Milton Shapp for R-esident Conm. If interested call 
Tom at 288-0088. 
Need Marquette tix and tix for any other Saturday home game. Call Tom 1795. 
Parents need 2 GA Marquette tickets. call 3654. 
Desperately need 2 GA and 2 student tix lor Maryland. call 1051. 
NOTICE 
The Quickie is running this A'iday, Jan. 30. Buses leave the main Circle at 8:30, 9, 9:30, 10, 11, 12, 1, and 1:30. $.75 all 

~, .n~g~t.~ ~·~~ ~~ !M'V.· ..•· ••· · • -.· • ----usa, 8089. 
NOTICES 
Typing $.35 per page. Call Di11272-5549. 
IBNI Selectric II typing. Manuscripts, dissertations, experienced. 289-5193. 
Aa:urate, fast typing. Mrs. Donoho 232-0746. 
Monissey Loan $20-$150, oneday\Nait. 1 percent interest, LaFortune, M-F, 11 :15­12:15. 
The Album Hour is here. Usten to WSND-640 AM for details. 
Need atune-up? You buy the parts, I will install plugs, points, oondenser, and set timing for $8. Call Bob 8610. 
Will do typing, experienced. Term papers nmuscripts, etc. Call 233-8512. 
FOR SALE 
1973 Mustang Grande, air, po..wr, stereo tape, one o\M'ler, undera>ated, 33,000 miles, no rust. 234-1372 after 5 P.M. 
Qllomite ski boots, size 9, used one season. Call 1924. 
12-string guitcr, in good oondition. Call 
The series drew an estimated 12,000 people. 
The movies that will be shown in this semester's festival that were not shown in 1973 include Hamlet, directed by and starring Sir Lau­
rence  Olivier,  OtheUo,  the  
Nureyev  Ballet  of  Romeo  and  
Juliet,'  and  the  Russian  film  
Twelfth Night.  

Dr. Paul Rathburn, assistant professor of english and director of the series , said the outstanding features of the festival were "'the superb performances by Sir Lau­rence Olivier, Diana Rigg, Paul Scofield, Richard Burton, Maggie Smith, and many others," and "the superb directors, such as Peter Brook, Olivier, Roman Polan­ski, Peter Hall and Franco Zeffer­elli." 
Rathburn expects similar large turnouts for this semester's festi­val, and recommends that students come early in order to see the shows. All films will be presented free of charge. 
The films are good," Rathburn said, "becuase they create an intimacy between acotrs and the audience. They are similar to the productions of the Globe Theater, and, in fact, closer than the stage productions in which the audience peers at a distant procenium-arch stage." The films will run non­stop, Rathburn added, "because in Shakespeare's time there were no act devisions." 
The films to be shown in Feb­ruary include Richard ID on Feb. 5, Twelfth Night on Feb. 9, andO­theUo on either Feb. 23 or Feb. 26. 
On Mar. I A Midsummer Night's Drem will be shown, followed by Romeo and Juliet on Mar. 25, and either MacBeth of Taming of the Shrew on Mar. 29. 
During the month of April Ham­let will be presented on April 1, 

King Lear on April 12, and Henry V May 2. The movies will be shown 
on April 26. at 7 p.m. and 10 p.m. in the The final film of the series will be Engineering Auditorium. Dates for either MacBeth of The Taming of all the films will soon be finalized 
t.he Shrew, and it will be shown on and posted on campus. \'l'!t...~ • ,.,.,. 
"':1~\1 •,, 
'# 
FOR RENT 
Available for Sept. tv.o to seven bedroom houses. CorrpletelyfumiShed. Call Mrs. Humburger. 
LDST AND FOUND 
Lost: last ~k dcrk grey stocking cap. Reward Call 284-4342. 
U:lst: one pair of glasses inside yellow case. U:lst be~' N. Dining Hall, Grace and parking lot. II found, call Ann at SMC 4343. 
R>und: v.tlite cat on ~-call 234-3892. 
PERSONALS 
Horny Mad [))g OrgiY!izational meeting roming soon! Join now iYld you too can be bit by the "GOLDEN" dog! Call the "Ghetto" tor info. 272-1991. 
Remerrmer that disastrous prom? "1 thought she said 'dark blue' and rented a purple tux--she said chartreuse.' " 1order a dozen roses and they sent me a cactus plant." " 1was fixed up with a friend of a friend of a friend v.tlo turned out to be my rousin." 
Aom Disaster EloxQ Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
Suey R. Runt, Happy 21st, OINK OINK 
TJT: I was going to send this wiSh via Western Union, but the OBSERVER v.on out. 
· HaPPY 2tst Birthday! GLB ' · · 
To my little (?) T. T. T. Have a happy birthday <l1d take care of that nose. It's on I y IIIOrth S1.60 at goes cheap) Je t'aime, Bets. P.S. Are you ready for your Austral ian glider? 
Rnd out about the fast pre-slot method for matching PEACE CORPS applicants with o~ jobs. Talk to PEACE CORPS recruiters next ~k in the Ubrary Main Conrourse. 
Henry, King of dada, When does 2 plus 2 equal 11? Ask the chauffeur. 
Torrorrow is Jill's b-day. She's 20. WiSh the old lady a happy one. 
Happy b-day lorrorrow Jill, Mdy you have 42 rrorel 
SacTament of Confirmation. If you haven't been oonfirmed, and wiSh to be, oontac:t Carr-pus Ministry In Ubrary 
(6536) and ask about oonfirmatlon pro­gram. 
Mode Stod< Mar1a!t-Feb. 2 thru Feb. 27. Old Business Bldg., 10 A.M.-3 P.M., Mon thru Ai. Win $100, sso, $25. Sponsored by N.D.Rnana! Club. 
Alii Skiles knows v.tlat it's like to be a PEACE CORPS wiunteer iYld teach scienre in Ghana, W. Africa. And he knows about wlunteer job opportunities for you. Talk to Alii Monday through Thur.;day, Ubrary Main ConCX>ur3e. 
Please help Milton Shapp in his bid for the R-esidency. call Tom Ill 288-0088 and wlunteer. 

Our menu is published on page 3. Come ' visit us in person--a real treat II TAC0 RICO SCOttsdale MaiL 


Friday, january 30, 1976
ACC's Maryland invades Irish ACC .,
by Bill Brink Their style hasn't changed much. tough front line weren't enough, Sports Editor They lost some big men, but their the Terrapins combine for a team new big men have fit in well." shooting percentage of .564 from 
Question: Which ACC is tougher So the Terrapins, now 14-3 after the field, tops in the nation. they to play in-the Atlantic Coast Con­their 102-84 drubbing of North also own the highest scoring aver­ference or the Athletic and Convo­Carolina State Wednesday night, age in the country at 9l.l. But it is cation Center? present the same old problems for the speed which worries Phelps. 
The answer should be revealed the Irish. And the number one 
"To beat them we've got to 
tomorrow afternoonat4 as the ACC problem is quickness. The Terps 
control their running game," he 
meets the ACC in the form of boast three of the quickest guards 
insists. "It means controlling the
Maryland vs. Notre Dame, a battle in the country in All-American 
boards and properly defensing
which marks the Irish's second John Lucas, Maurice 'Mo' Howard, 
their running. Ifwe can do that, we
consecutive national television ap­and Brad Davis. Coach Left 
have a real good shot at taking
pearance in as many Saturdays. Driesell will sometimes go with all 
them."

Indeed, both teamshaveexcellent three at once, making for an claim as to the supremacy of the incredibly quick lineup. If the Irish can continue their 
respective ACCs. Maryland is on "Maryland is one of the fastest well-rounded attack, they'll have an even better shot. Though
leave from the grueling Atlantic teams I have have ever seen," Coast Conference, where teams admits Digger. "When they go 
All-American forward Adrian Dant­knock each other off as if they were with their three-guard combination 
ley leads the way, with a 29.1 mob families involved in a gang it presents a difficult defensive scoring average, it is someone new war. The Irish have a notorious situation for any team." every night whocomesthrough for ACC of their own, that is, an Lucas, at 6-4, is Maryland's NO. Lately, Duck Williams has 
awesome Convocation Center leading scorer, averaging around been hot with 18 and 14 point crowd that has propelled them to a 20 ppg . His 34-point perfor­performances in his last two perfect 9-0 record at home this mance against N.C. State Wednes­games. Dave Batton has also season, including big wins over day night left him just 11 points shy excelled, most notably in his 16­UCLA and DePaul this past week. of becoming Maryland's all-time point, 10 rebound performance Irish head coach Digger Phelps leading scorer. Former forward against DePaul. The hearlded Irish 
knows all too well the value of the . Tom McMillian holds that position bench will also be an importanthome-court advantage. with 1,807 career points. Lucas' factor, as it was in the victory over 
"We'll be ready for Maryland," backcourt mates, Howard and Dav­both the Bruins and the Blue he states assuredly, "but we've got is are both averaging over 11 Demons. Phelps, as always, will be to get a duplication of last weekend p.p.g., with the sophomore star substituting frequently. to help us. We're calling this one Davis owning 95 assists. The game, which will be tele­
student-game II." Driesell's front line is headed vised by WNDU (channel 16 in Indeed, the home-court advan­by 6-6 junior Steve Sheppard (who South Bend) will be the finale to a 
tage may be just the edge the Irish will probably line up against NO's monumental week in the Notre need to handle a Maryland team Adrian Dantley). Sheppard is Dame season. After two impres­that beat them twice last season. scoring at an 8.4 ppg clip, while sive wins on national television a 
The Terps downed NO during the pulling down nearly 9 rebounds per regular season at Maryland, and in game. The center position is still the Midwest Regionals of the up in the air, with starting center NCAA tournament, winning both Larry Gibson listed as doubtful 
ND's Flowers in early bloom 
games by eight points. The because of an injury. Gibson, just a problem for the Irish is that this freshman has been averaging over Digger has said, "He's a complete defense and rebounding."
by Rich Odioso

year's Maryland team has changed 11 ppg, and is Maryland's leading player, hits both boards and can The 6-8 Flowers gets his height very little from last year's. rebounder with nearly 9 each As a freshman Bruce Flowers function well inside or outside. He from his parents. His father a stock hasn't been too familiar with most
"That's the thing," explained game. Another forward, junior definitely has the potential to be a broker stands 6-4 while his mother 
of the player's he's run up against
Phelps, "there's not much differ­college transfer Lawrence Boston, great.'' is S-11. He has a 6-3 brother at ence in their team this year. They is hitting over eight points per The only other problem Flowers Albion College and twin 6-0 sisters 
this year. But there will be one still have rebounding strength, and game. player on the court tomorrow he has had on the court other than his who are seniors in high school. they still have those quick guards. As if a quick backcourt and a won't need any introduction to fouling is his free throw shooting. An active participant , Bruce is 
Maryland's 6-11 center Larry Gib­"I was a good free shooter my first not a big fan. "I love to play 
son. 

two years in high school, in the basketball but I don't really enjoy
Healthy Irish icers home 
Flowers and Gibson first ran into 
seventies, but last year I slipped a watching it. I like competing in just
each other in the summer of 1974 at bit.'' Flowers problems at the line about everything." He doesn't 
the Five Star Basketball Camp in

against Colorado College 
have continued this year with a really like comparisons either. 
Pennsylvania''s Pocono Mountains. 

61 o/o mark going into Saturday's "When I was in High School people by Tom Kruczek The Irish could have just that 
Flowers was there prior to his game. "I just have to get my were comparing me with Daveluck, since for once, everyone is 
senior year at Berkley (Mich.) High 
For those of you who might not rhythym in games. In practice DeBusschere. I don't see any
healthy for the skaters, or almost. 
while Gibson was awaiting his
have noticed, the Notre Dame sometimes I'll hit 24 of 25. A.D. point in it, DeBusschere's gone."
Tim Byers is the only one who 
senior year at Baltimore Dunbar. 

hockey team is once again alive and thinks concentrate, over the rim, Not yet gone is Maryland.
may not see action due to a groin
well. When we last left this squad, The towering Gibson was known follow through on every shot. I'll "Digger's calling it the last jewel in 
pull, but if he responds to treat­
as an intimidating shot-blocker and 
before Christmas, the Irish were have to get something like that." the triple crown. We know we've
ment, may see limited action. 
a strong rebounder but when the
having trouble suiting up enough Flowers has more than made up got to stop their fast break. Then it 
Smith will be going at his first line 
camp was over Flowers was named
players for two complete lines. for his lack of percentage at the line will be up to our guards. Mary­
the group who has a total of 82 
best rebounder and best defender.

Anything that could go wrong for with a .56o/o field average second to land's supposed to have three
points among them. Clark Ham­
Also present were current high

this team did, and as the students Adrian Dantley. After averaging super guards but I think ours can
ilton and Alex Pirus will wing for 
school All-Americans Jim Graziano 
departed South Bend, the hockey 28 points per game in high school do the job. All week we've been
Brian Walsh, and provided the flu and Wayne McKoy. 
team had an unimpressive 5-6-1 the adjustment to less than six thinking transition--we've got to
doesn't get any of them, will be 
"It was a great camp," Flowers
record and were making the pre­shots per game might be hard for change from offense to defense diction of 9th place out of 10 teams looked on for major goal pro­remembers, "It was my first real some but Flowers says he's had no quicker."
duction. 

in the WCHA look accurate, or time away from home. There were trouble. "We 've got a great In half a season Notre Dame fans 
The second line will be centered 
250 kids there most of them real

maybe even inflated. All-American in A.D. and scorers have learned what scoutGarfunkel
by Don Fairholm, and winged by 
good players so it was a big thrill reported following the camp about
However as the drama resumes, like Duck Williams and Dave
Alllen Karania and Kevin Nugent. 
when I won those awards."

this same hockey team is now hampered by in­Batton so I don't feel bad about not Flowers, "Got to love him--physi­
Despite being 

The Five-Star Camp is run by
11-10-2 overall and 9-9-2 in WCMA being a big scorer. I just look for cal tools, plus plays so damn
juries for most of the year, Nugent seems to
Howard Garfunkel who

competition and tied for 5th place other ways to help the team, with hard."
has remarkably scored 9 goals and 1
earn his living both from the camp

in the conference with, this week's assisted on 9 others. 
and a scouting report he prefers on

opponent, Colorado College. 
Smith again will alternate goal­
high schools kids for prospective

''This is a key weekend for us tenders, starting probably with 
college coaches. His report on

and we need to play well and get a John Peterson (goals against ave. 
Flowers reads in part, "Some felt 

sweep. The league is really screwy 4.6) Friday night and use Lenny at camp.
he had the best weekthis year, in that teams are jumping Moher (goals against ave. 4.3) on 

Physical sticks his nose in. Returns 

a number of spots by getting hot Saturday. 
elbows (as Gibson discovered)."

and no team at the momenf really Colorado College will come to 
"I don't know where he got that 

has anything locked up. ln fact any town with the tremendous Eddie 
about elbows with Gibson," says

team that can get hot now, could Mio as their main attraction at the 
Bruce, but those who have seen

have the momentum to take position of goaltender. Mio, 
acc­him in action this year for the Irish

themselves right to the top of the ording to the statistics is the third 
know that as far as contact is

league and to the national cham­best goalie in the league, with a 4.2 
concerned he's no wallflower. He

pionship." average in 19.3 games. Dave 
leads the Irish with 51 fouls , 14 

Smith is right about the league Delich a freshman center is their 
more than anyone else on the team. 

being a bit on the strange side this top scoroing threat with 14 goals 
That's one statistic Flowers isn't , car. Sweeps are a rare thing and 15 assists. Dean Magee and really pleased with. "I had the 
indeed. and if any team could get Jim Warner will both miss Friday 
same problem in high school," he 

hllt and win a couple of games in a night's encounter thanks to fight­
says, "Ifouled a lot as a sopho­

row. then they would be on top of ing violations incurred last Sat­
more. I'd commit three fouls in the 

the heap. urday. 
first half and have to sit out for a 

At the moment Michigan Tech is Clearly, this series is a must for 
while. My coach was always telling 

in first place with a 14-6 record. both squads. Smith stressed the 
me I'd have to learn to play smart 

Minnesota is right on their heels need for the support of the students 
and I finally did. I didn't have 

with a 12-7 record, just 3 points out this weekend. "We absolutely 
many foul problems my senior 

of first. Michigan is one point need the vocal support of the 
year. I think it's just because I'm a 

behind Minnesota with a 12-8 students this week, because we .....__. .
freshman now, I feel I have to play

record, while Michigan State fol­need to sweep. All we need is to 
harder and when you try to play 1 _..
lows theWolves by 2 points. Then catch hot now, and who knows what 
harder you commit more fouls."

Colorado College and Notre Dame could happen." 
Its shorter to list the things

are tied with 20 points, CC having a Face-off for the Friday night 
s
Flowers has had problems with

mark of 10-10. So certainly a game is 7:30 p.m. and Saturday, 
then the things he hasn't. His

weekend sweep could mean a face-off wtll be pushed back to 8 
shooting, quickness, defense, re­t&difference of more than one place p.m. Tickets are still available for 
bounding and poise among other

rnobility for a team. both nights at the ACC box office. 
things have all been execellent. As Adrian Dantley will look to improve his 29.1 per game scoring average tomorrow. (Photo by Chris Smith) 

victory over Maryland would put "If we win Saturday, we'll be the all eyes on the Irish. hottest thing around." As guard Duck Williams says, So they will. 
The excellent play of freshman Bruce Flowers has been instrumental in the Irish's success this season.(Photo by Chris Smith) 



