Simpson poetry recital remembrances
' 

cast many moods over SLF audience 
by Karl J. Blette Staff Reporter 
Poet-essayist Louis Simpson read selections from his poetry last night to a crowd of over 300 people at the fourth program of the Sophomore Literary Festival. 
Simpson, most famous for his poetry, but also a novelist, critic and biographer, read and spoke for over an hour, moving the audience from moments of intent gravity to loud laughter. 
The first few poems which he read recounted his experiences in World War II. His poems about war 

reflect common feelings of soldiers­
fear and loneliness-and are consid­
ered modern classics. 
"I write a lot of very grim 
·poems,'' Simpson commented, "but I enjoy writing them, so I don't see why they should depress anybody else." 
Proving his versatility, the Pulit­zer Prize-winning poet read a light hearted work, entitled "Before the Poetry Reading," eliCiting roaring laughter from the audience. 
Obviously well-versed in poetry 
readings, he lampoons the typical poetry recital, showing it as archaic and uninteresting. "If you would have come on a Wednesday, or any day but this,'' an unnamed speaker consoles the poet, "you would have had an audience." 
"During the intermission," the poem continues, "there is time for you to catch the rising of the Latter-Day Saints at the Day of Poet louis SimpsonJudgment" and after the recital, 



"tea and little pieces of eraser are poem, he followed through on his being served in the gymnasium." 
statement, "I'll try to recover Although Simpson worried he afterwards" by reading a more would spoil the serious atmosphere sober work. 
of the program by reading the 
To end his lecture, Simpson recited the longest and probably 
the most moving poem of the evening, "Searching for the Ox," to a very quiet and attentive audience. 
The poem deals with man's search for identity, and reflects a certain amount of Buddhist in­fluence, a subject which Simpson said taught hi.m a lot about poetry. 
Throughout the evening, Simp­son spiced his readings with witty comments and insightful observa­tions. Commenting on his most recent book of poems, Adventures of the Letter I, he explained that "my publisher was very careful to 

unrverslty of nofre dame sf mary's college 
see that the book didn't fall into the wrong hands, but if you write theVol. X, No. 89 Thursday, February 19, 1976 warehouse, I think you can get a 


Morrissey forum opens SSP campaign· :::/~:7,~·~~;;.::£:.:~!::::. 
by Matt Kane 
Staff Reporter 
The three tickets running for student government office stressed realistic goals ano better communi­cation between student govern­ment and the University Commun­ity at a forum held at Morrissey Hall last night. 
Presidential candidates Tim Boyle, Mike Sweigart and Mike Gassman all promised to find out what students want and remain realistic about the goals they hope to achieve. 
From the reaction of the 40 students attending, the desire of students is to improve on-campus social life, the passage of a new Indiana drinking age, a change in parietals policy and to make the administration react to overcrowd­ing in the College of Business Administration. 
The candidates reacted to these problems by seeking ways to destroy student apathy and frustra­tions caused by University neglect. 
Gassman·CIIIiey 
Mike Gassman and his running­mate Mike Casey gave the first lO minute presentation. 
Gassman stressed his and Casey's experience, Gassman's in­volvement with Student Union and Casey's HPC membership. Gass­man and Casey presented ways in which Student Government could improve the communication with students, faculty and Administra­tion. 
They hope to have the SBP or SBVP sit in on all HPC meetings. ''The HPC should be a vital force in representing student opinion," Casey emphasized. Cooperation with the HPC, which is the most representative body of student opinion, according to Casey, is essential if they are to react ot student's desires. 
A student body Congress com­posed of the HPC, SLC, Student Union Board of Directors, SBP and SBVP to meet twice a year was also proposed by the candidates. The Body would have a legislated power but help set mutual goals at the first meeting, then review each other's success at the second. The Congress would provide a unified front when issues such as the calendar are decided upon. 
They would also like to establish a financial co-ordinator to work with the Student Body Treasurer and Student Union Comptroller. He would prevent duplicity and error that sometimes occurs. 
A liason with campus media, ''a sort of press secretary to provide campus media with accurate infor­mation is needed," according to Casey. 
Gassman began his speech by saying, "I see student government as a continuing process, but we have to initiate certain programs to solve problems untouched." 
Gassman wants to improve fac­ulty-student relations. The faculty feels along the same lines as students do on many issues. By working with the faculty we present a unified front," he said. Gassman noted that Faculty and students make a majority on the SLC. 
Sweigert-Walsh 
Mike Sweigart and his running mate, Bill Walsh made only one promise: "To remain realistic." 
Sweigart opened by saying, "We are representative of all the stud­ents and want to keep communica­tions open." 
Sweigart's realist strategy in­volves organization and long-range planning. "Student Government should not operate on a year to year basis," he said, but should have permanent policies. 
Sweigart also wants to upgrade communication among other groups. He proposes sending a newsletter to each University com­mittee to inform them of progress made by their total efforts. He also stressed "The SBP should go as far as possible to assist students when they have problems with the Ad­ministration.'' He then cited the Dillon sign incident as an example. 
Sweigart said he will have an open administration, continue the student lobby, upgrade hall J. Boards and improve relations with campus media by giving the Execu­tive Coordinator of Student Union public relation duties. He also plans to inform students of student government plans and accomplish­
(continued on page 7) 
Nine candidates 


SLC elections slated 
by Barb Langhenry Staff Reporter 
Nine students are running for the Student Life Council (SLC), which will hold primary elections on Monday, Feb. 23 and secondaries onWednes­day, Feb. 25. 
Tom Digan, John Kinney, Len Moty and John Stienman are candidates from off-campus. Competing for the North quad position are Mary Charchut and Ed Van Tassel. Peter Haley, Pat Russell and Jeff Simnick are from the South quad. 
One person from each quad and off-campus will be elected to serve on 
SBP: the candidates and their platforms 
Mike Gassman 
by Eileen O'Grady Staff Reporter 
Mike Gassman and Mike Casey, promis­ing "experience in leadership," began their campaign yes­terday for student body president and vice president. 
/ 
Gassman, running for president, is a [Photo by Tony Chifari] junior electrical engineering and economics major from Kansas City, Mo. 
He has worked three years in student government, serving under Dennis Etienne and Pat McLaughlin, and in. the Services Commission of the Student Union. 
This year he served as the Academic Commissioner of the Student Government, representing it on the Academic Council. In this capacity he was responsible for bringing in the proposal to chance the 1976 fall calendar. 
While also on the council, he worked on the committee to alleviate the overcrowding in the business college. Gassman feels strongly about this project and sees it as one of the major points of his platform. 
· (continued on page 6) 

Mike Sweigart 
by PhD Cackley Senior Staff Reporter 
A bond fund for students arrested for underage drinking and a reduction of parietal violations to the level of a hall offense are two major 
)· points in a platform ..tlfli offered yesterday by . . SBP candidate Mike [Photo by Tony Ch1fan] 
Sweigart and SBVP candidate Bill Walsh to the Student body. 
Other major points on the platform include: finding a solution to the "Summer Storage Hassle;" circulating a newsletter on the actions taken by the SLC, HPC, and the Academic Council to help coordinate the efforts of these groups; continuing to improve the Student Union; and supporting the SLC proposals on neutral space. 
Sweigart stressed that neither he nor Walsh were "politicians" and were making "only one promise -to strive to utilize Student Government and Student Union to bring the greatest benefit to the Notre Dame commun­ity." 
The other points in the platform were listed 
(continued on page 3) 


Tim Boyle 
by Chuck BUadlan 
Staff Reporter For those who don't know Tim Boyle is alive, he's a candidate for student body president. Boyle, a junior chem­istry major, terms himself ''a complain­er from the outside 


who wants to get on the inside." [Photo by Tony Chifari] Admittedly, Boyle has had no "exper­ience" in campus activities. He is a straight forward individual who wants to bring his case directly to the student body. Boyle admits that he is the least known of the three candidates, and has made the decision to run for office because of what he calls, "student apathy." "I'm running because out of the entire student body we only have two other candidates," he said. Boyle is an advocate of placing emphasis on campus life. Fed up with the lack of campus activities, Boyle moved off campus. "We need activities on campus to keep people on campus.'' Boyle feels that if the Student Government can stimulate events which will be widely patronized by students so that 
(continued on page 2) 
copy." 

After he read the first stanza of "Before the Poetry Recital," the audience started applauding, thinking the poem was over. "No, 
wait!"  Simpson  cut  in  with  an  
emphatic  voice,  "Give  me  a  
,chancel Don't cut me off!"  

Also in the poem "Lorenzo," Simpson describes a dilemma en­countered by the poet. "Because he longs for beauty," the poem explains with a certain desperation, "with man he grows enraged." 
"I live in a little town ncar the sea," Simpson said, careful to emphasize that he did not live in New York City proper. He spoke fondly of the sea near his home, calling it his "spiritual susten­ance." 
Commenting on the talk on Walt Whitman given Sunday night by Argentinian author Jorge Borges, Simpson related that he too had been influenced by Whitman. 
"I immersed myself in Whitman 
called him the greatest poet next to Eliot. 
Simpson's style is concise and clear. He uses the language of the everyday man, writing bluntly, honestly and often humorously. 
"A poem must be written," Simpson explained, "with the kind ot rapidity of a good short story. It must move from point to point very fast. The language can't be ornate or you lose reality." 
Simpson received some of his writing experience working for the New York Herald Tribune. His poem, "Newspaper Night," re­counts several of his experiences and feelings while working for the paper. 
-the Council, which is a body comprised of students and mem­bers of the faculty and administra­tioned to discern and recommend solutions to student related prob­lems in the University. 
Most of the candidates expres­
sed a need for a social area and 
more communication between the 
Hall Presidents' Council (HPC) 
and the SLC. 
South Quad 

Peter Haley, a sophomore, stat­
ed that the SLC has no power and 
to attain power it must get the 
respect of the -1 administration. 
Haley explained that there is too 
much emphasis on certain issues 
that are closed and the council 
should look at practical aspects that 
can become realities. 

"The only way to gain power is 
through success," he said. "If we 
look at practical aspects of what we 
can do and gain success in these 
areas we will gain the respect of the 
administration and then power." 

Using parietals as an example, Haley explained that the issue is closed, for the time being at least, and concentration should be moved to issues that. can gain success,, such as social space. "Small steps build up,'' he said. 
Also contending for the South Quad position, Pat Russell, a 
(oontinued on page-6) 
-~ --~--~----­
the observer Thursday, February 19, 1976 
2 
~---News Briefs----~ 

t==========lntemational 
Peron won't seek new term 
BUENOS AIRES, Argentina--Argentina's embattled president, Isabel Peron, said last night she won't seek a new term but will finish her current one. 
Her announcement on national television came after weeks of pressure from national leaders for her to resign or take an extended leave -making way for a more dynamic leader to wrestle with the economic disorder and violence gripping Agentina. 
~============Nationru 


Handgun ban rejected 
WASHINGTON--The House Judiciary Committee rejected yester­day an attempt to ban small, easily concealable handguns commonly known as Saturday Night Specials. 
Since it began deliberating on the handgun issue last week, the committee has rejected amendments to ban handgun manufactvre, sale and possession in America, and proposals that would have strengthened existing federal registration laws. 

Nuclear plants dangerous 
WASHINGTON--Three nuclear specialists said yesterday that all nuclear power plants in the United States. have serious engineering deficiences which make a dangerous reactor accident likely by the year 2000. 
The three, who resigned Feb. 2 from General Electric's Nuclear Division to warn of such perils, also said industry and the federal government are aware of the problems in nuclear reactors but are not acting fast enough to attempt to find a solution. 
.,___On Campus Today---a 
3:30p.m.  --computer course, "introduction 115, computer & math bldg.  to  basic,"  room  
4 p.m.  --seminar, "organic ground-state triplet molecules" by prof. anthony m. trozzolo, n.d., conference room 115, radiation bldg.  
8 p.m.  --ice capades, ace, also feb. 20, 21, & 22.  
8 p.m.  --women's basketball, n.d. against st. joe's, rens5alaer; auxiliary gym (pit), ace, free, come and cheer for the home team.  
8-11 p.m.  --campaign central, library foyer, mock convention.  
8 p.m.  --sophomore literary festival, and poet, library aud.  may sarton,  novelist  


Olympic hockey players accuse police of brutality 
MADISON, Wis. (AP)-Officials of Germany. the U.S. Olympic Committee Two players, Gary Ross, 22, of charged police brutality W ednes­Roseau, Minn., and Robert Miller, day in the wake of a gasthaus Jr., 19, of Billerica, Mass., were brawl involving U.S. hockey play­charged with disturbing the peace ers near the close of the XII inter . and were fined about $18. The 
Games in Innsbruck. 
Philip 0. Krumm, president of the USOC, made the charges in a story published by the New York Daily News, and a team physician who was kicked in the groin by Austrian police told The Associated Press that "the police came and just went wild ... if it happened in the United States there would no doubt be charges of police brutal­ity." 
"Being in Madison, I have heard that cry several times," Dr. Conrad 
L. Andringa, a pediatrician in this university city, said. "I would say they-the police-handled it very poorly and grossly over-reacted.'' 
Krumm could not be reached for comment. His office in Antioch, Ill. said he either was still in Austria or en route back to the States. 
But Dr. Andringa said that he believed the police over-reacted to the Saturday night incident be· cause of a language barrier. He said that they couldn't speak English and the Americans couldn't speak German. 
However, he said that once they 
reached the police station and
t interpreters were called in, the authorities handled the matter very well. The melee broke out in the cellar of the Bauernkeller tavern Satur­day night where the U.S. hockey team, officials, family and friends gathered after the United States lost its bid for a bronze medal by dropping its final game to West 
USOC later said the matter had been settled amicably and that payment for damages to the tavern, estimated at about $1,000 would be made. 
Dr. Andringa said he was kicked in the groin by police when he attempted to treat Ross, who had a cut hand. 
The melee, which Miller's father, Robert Sr., said involved seven hockey players and about 30 or 40 police, erupted when the younger Miller inadvertently wan­dered into a private party at the tavern in search of his party. 
He said his son and Ross were beaten inside the tavern and sev­eral other players were struck on the head with chairs and bottles. 
. He said both his son and Ross were roughed up later by police outside the tavern and then dumped into a police car. 
In addition, he said a police officer ''hauled off and punched me in the side of the face when I asked if he understood English." 
Dr. Andringa said it was while the two were in the squad car that he attempted to examine Ross. "Gary's hand was bleeding. It was a minor cut, but I didn't know it at the time. I asked three times to take a look at it and I got jumped.'' 
Dr. Andringa said that while he was upset that it took so long for the true story to come out, he personally wanted to drop the matter. 



Ford Orders restrictions on CIA spying of American citizens 
WASHINGTON AP -President Ford on Wednesday ordered strict limits to spying on American citizens but at the same time proposed new powers for a central­ized intelligence community, in­cluding court-ordered mail opening and a secrecy law. 
Except for a. ban on political assassinations, Ford placed no limits on covert operations abroad. "There are no restraints on the conduct of covert operations other than congressional oversight," White House aide John 0. Marsh told reporters. 
Ford proposed secrecy legisla­tion that would make it a crime to reveal intelligence sources and methods and ordered government employees and contractors with access to intelligence secrets to sign an agreement not to desclose those secrets. The attorney gen­eral could bring a civil suit against any person breaking the agreement while anyone violating the propos­ed law would be liable to a maximum penalty of a $5,000 fine a and five years in jail. 
Reacting to disclosure of abuses by U.S. intelligence agencies, Ford issued a 36-page executive order Wednesday, expanding on his 
statement the night before at a news conference. With certain "limited exceptions," Ford's order, effective March 1, places the following limits on intelligence activities: -No electronic eavesdropping by the CIA inside the United States. -No interception by the National Security Agency of communica­tions to or from the United States. -No collection of information on the domestic activities of American citizens, corporations and organiza­tions. -No infiltration of domestic groups for the purpose of influencing or reporting on them. 
The "limited exceptions" to these guidelines would permit the collection of domestic intelligence secrets. None of the limits apply to the FBI, which will be governed by a separate set of guidelines to be issued by Atty. Gen. Edward H. Levi within 90 days. 
In a separate message to Con­gress, Ford said he would seek legislation that would require the government to obrain a judicial warrant before installing a national security wiretap. 
Ford indicated he also would seek to expand government powers to open mail, which currently is permitted only in criminal investi­gations. "We need authority to open mail.. .in order to obtain vitally need foreign intelligence infromation," Ford said. 
Under the procedure proposed by Ford, the government could obtain a court order to open mail if it could show "there is probable cause to believe that the sender of recipient is an agent of a foreign power who is engaged in spying, sabotage or terrorism." 
Ford's executive order also out­lined in detail the reorganization plan which he said Tuesday night would hold the President account­able for intelligence operations. 

$3.05 billion package 


Senate nears passage of aid bill 
WASHINGTON AP -The Senate on Wednesday neared passage of a $3.05-billion foreign military aid authorization bill with provisions tightening congressional control of sales of U.S. weapons abroad . 
Principal assistance under the bill will go to Middle East contries, with Israel earmarked for grants and credits supporting $2.2 billion in U.S. arms imports. 
A similar bill in in final stages of drafting in the House Committee on International Relations. The committee took steps Wednesday to relax Congress' aid embargo against Turkey by approving $50 billion in U.S. grant aid and up to $125 million in credit sales for Turkey. The Senate bill has $25 million for Turkey with the condi­tion that it make progress on the Cyprus dispute. 
The committee also approved an amendment to lift the U.S. trade embargo against North Vietnam. 
In Senate debate, Sen Charles Percy6, R-Ill, challenged a provis­ion of \the bill giving Congress the authority to cancel proposed gov­ernment or commercial sale of "major military equipment." He also objected to another that would cut off military aid to countries transferring such equipment to third countries. 
Percy proposed, then withdrew, an amendment to limit congres­sional review to sales and transfers exceeding $25 million. 
He contended that the provision for congressional review for 30 days, of major equipment exports of any value, would impose hard­ships on American manufacturers in making sales of aircraft, missles, trucks and other weaponry abroad. He said such sales number hun­dreds each year. 
He also questioned how Congress 

(*The Observerl 
Night Editor: Tim O'Reiley 
Assishnt Night Editor: Jim 
Stevens · 
Day Editor: Eileen O'Grady 
Copy Reader: Fred Herbst, 
Earl Monroe 
Editorials: Ken Girouard 
Features: Chris Smith 
Sports: Bill Brink 
Typists: 12 Picas Keefe, Sue 
Shellenbarger 
Night Controller: Bob Stein­
metz 
Photographer: Tony Chifari 
The Obsen.oer is published Monday through Friday and weekly during the sunmer session, except during the exam; and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of the Univ. of Notre Dame and St. Ma-y's College. Subso"iptions may be purdlased for $18 <S10 per semester) froTI The Observer, Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46.556. Second Class postage paid, Notre Dame, IN 46556. 
could handle the review during pons sold into a particular area." recesses that last for 30 days or "Congress," he added, "is not longer. going to meddle in all of these 
Sen. Hubert H. Humphrey, D­matters." Minn., managing the bill on the Percy withdrew his amendment Senate floor, said the Senate upon assurance that the subject ForeignRelations Committee staff would be explored in detail in is preparing to use computers in House-Senate conference to devel­monitoring arms exports prosals op a workable policy. and that very few would draw As Congress considered military congre!>sional objection. sales, the Pentagon announced it 
The purpose of the congressional plans to build nearly $900 million in review requirement, he said is to new naval facilities for Saudi arabia "alert the sales force in the and to sell $150 million worth of Department of Defense to be more military aircraft spare parts to the careful about the number of wea-Ieanian Air Force. contractors for 

Boyle platform outlined 
(continued from page 1) students will remain at Notre Dame, and not become vicitms of unfortunate circumstances away 
from the campus. Boyle advocates events such as the recent North Quad Party. 
"If the students are apathetic we must iniate short range plans to cope with the problems. Long range plans will only lead to more frustration on behalf of the stud­ents," Boyle said. He feels that he "must take his case to the people, and deal with them on an individual basis where they can't hide behind the mass of students." 
Boyle notes that ''the people who run Notre Dame are the alumni and the parents who are paying the tuition." Boyle advocates a sertes of meeting with the alumni, possib­ly on football weekends when they flood the campus. Boyle feels that if action is wanted on student issues, students must take their case to the alumni. "we will have a better chance to get what we want if we by-pass the administration 
and meet head on with the alumni 
and Board of Trustees," he said. 
Boyle refuses to promise things, 
rather he feels that his proposals 
can and will work if the students. 
feel like "getting in gear." 
I eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee 

C.A.U.S.E. : 
Arm Wrestling 
• 


Tournament 
Both Men & Women 
Sign up by Mon. 2/23: 

!• with Hall Recreation! • : Commissioner : 
Ports & accessories for im.ported car 


for all makes at lowest prices. 
'******* 272 -7 J87 ********* 
:·For ND Students.~ Facultyl&Staff-: *·10 percentfdiscount wlfh .yo·'& * ~pur-chase of $10 or more. ! *************~~.,..-,If*******-­


Thursday, February 19, 1976 
the observer 







Campus 'Hotline' to be re-instituted by Easter 
by Mary Mungovan Senior Staff Reporter 
Notre Dame-St. Mary's Com­munity Service will re-establish a campus "Hotline" before Easter break, Community Service director Don Longano announced yester­day. 
Mary Bilec, St. Mary's student body vice-president, together with Steve Kowalski and Beth Marren of Howard and Holy Cross Halls will direct the "Community Service Hotline." 
"The Hotline is designed to 
'Non-PQiiticians' 
provide peer-counseling over the phone for students with problems or conflicts," Bilec explained. ''The Hotline will be staffed with trained listeners and will allow a caller who is embarrassed or afraid to maintain his anonymity." 
The Hotline directors will hold a meeting to organize and recruit volunteers Monday, Feb. 23, at 7 
p.m. in Bulla Shed. 
"We need at least 25-30 volun­teers to staff the phone from 8 to 12 every night, with each volunteer working two hours a week," Kow­alski stated. "The project is spon­sored by Howard and Holy Cross, but volunteers from any hall are welcome." 
All volunteers must go through a series of seven training sessions over a three-week span, according to Marren. 
"The training will be as profes­sional as possible," she stated. Psychologists, doctors, a science professor and a representative from the South Bend Hotline will speak on six main topics: sensitiv­ity, conflict resolution, drugs and alcohol, human sexuality, role play­ing and referrals. 

Sweigart-Walsh platform outlined 
(continued trom page 1) as "opinions." 
Long-range planning, and coord­ination and communication are two phrases of the platform, according to Sweigart. He said student government must move away from a year to year planning process, and instead think in terms of policies extending over the terms of several administrations. 
Communication with a purpose of coordination, is what Sweigart
H •tt d said, there will be surplus money in 
ouse comml ee cone 1u es th~~:n~g~lth the creation of the 
security groups out of hand 
NEW YORK AP -The House Intelligence committee concluded that U.S. intelligence agencies are, today, beyond the scrutiny of Congress, .according to a document
which the VUiage Voice published Wednesday and identified as part of the committee's still-secret re­port. The committee, which reviewed covert intelligence operations since 1965, also said "paramilitary oper­ations of the worst type seemed to come from outside" the Central Intelligence Agency and were or­dered by former President Nixon and Secretary of State Henry 
A. Kissinger, the Voice report said. 
The statement was made in reference to U.S. activities in Chile during the presidency of Salvador Allende and U.S. support for the now-ended Kurdish rebellion in Iraq. 
The Voice, a New York City weekly newspaper, published last week what it said was the investi­gative section of the committee's report. Daniel Schorr, a CBS newsman, ha~ said he supplied the Voice with a copy of the report.. 
The Justice Department said Tuesday it may investigate the leak which led to initial publication of the report by the Voice last 
week and Rep. Samuel S. Stratton, D-NY, said Wednesday he plans to ask for a formal House investiga­tion. The Voice said it was publishing 
the material printed Wednesday because it provides perspective for understanding the reaction of ad­
ministration officials to the section 
itpublishediastweek.
The material published by the Voice on Wednesday detailed the difficulties the committee had in· securing secret information from 
the White House, the intelligence 



JuL I 0 's : :i 
8:00 PM : 

NOW HAS 
PAN 

PIZZA!!! 
!PHONE 232-791 
and Walsh see to be the most vital first item it came before the Board 
aspect of Student Government. 
(of Trustees)," he commented,The newsletter, which would be "but we probably will fail on thedistributed to the faculty, adminis­first attempt." Sweigart pointedtration, HPC, SLC and the Aca­out at least "we'll have our foot in 
demic Council, would be a major the door." part of this communication effort. 
The bond fund for students arrested for underage drinking
Sweigart admitted that at least might be set up with excess funds one point in his platform, the from the Student Activity Fee, reduction of parietal violations to a Sweigart explained. This year's hall offense, might not be accom-fee was raised three dollars to pay
plt"shed ne t 
.. , . x year.. off last year's Student Union debt. 
I d ltke to say tt would pass the Unless the fee is reduced again, he 
agencies and FBI, the State De­partment, and other agencies of the executive branch. Other than specifics of these problems, and statements of the committee's re­
action, there was little, if anything, in the 10 pages that had not previously been made public by other newspapers and news organ­izations. Although numerous public state­ments of cooperation with the committee were made by the executive branch and the intelli­gence agencies, the report said, "The reality was delay, refusal, missing information, asserted priv­ileges and on and on." "If this committee's recent ex­perience is any test, intelligence agencies that are to be controlled by congressional lawmaking are, today, beyond the lawmaker's scru­tiny," the report said. The report said there are 15,466 persons in the executive branch who can classify information. "What it all means is that there must be a responsible system of classification, accompanied by an equally responsible and effective system of declassification. We have neither." Noting that intelligence should serve both the military and diplo­matic purposes of the country, it stated:"...It is nearly impossible, today, to evaluate how well intelli­gence serves diplomatic ends. If it does not serve well, it is hard to imagine how anything could be known or done about it by Con-


8 mi. N. of State Line Take 31 to Niles then North on 51, 3 miles. 683-9842 

.,___________________________.. 
atmosphere. FAST SERVICE for carefree cuts and blow styles. WE FEATURE RK products.  
MANICURES for men  $4  PRECISION CUTS  $5  
HAIRCUTS  $4  BLOW STYLING  $4.50  
PERMANENT WAVING bv NATURAL MAN  $25  
$1.00 OFF A PRECISION CUT WITH BLOW STYLING WITH YOUR NO OR SMC 10. uttn's etC a~tlr 54533 TERRACE LANE  
Tues., Wed., Sat. 8:30 -5:30, Thurs. & Fri. 8:30 · 8:30  
PHONE 277 -1691 



THE 


l\nigljt~ 
NEW CONCEPI' ID baln;tyHng for Men l.OCA11ID on our lower level WW. Us own private eulnmre way. COMPlETE PRIVACY ID our IDdlvldual styHng units. SIP COFFEE by the fireplace ID a relaxed 
• ................... 
Y ..... 
• W W W PRESENTS • 
• COMEDIAN • 
jlress." have any magical solutions."




)<.----------------;:::. • ROBERT KLEIN •
EN YOUNG PROMOTIONS PRESENTS t t & • IN CONCERT --, & • • 
f ' ' f • •,.,L'J
t ~~ t. SATURDAY , fEB.21 • 
fund, Sweigart and Walsh plan to 
continue the lobbying effort to 
lower the drinking age in Indiana. 
The fund could be handled 
through the hall Judicial Boards, 
Sweigart said, although other alter­
natives, such as Ombudsman, 
exist. Upgrading the J-Boards,.
both for purposes of the bond fund and for dealing with parietal viola­tions, would be a major project for next year, he added. Sweigart stressed continuing the work that Student Union director Tom Birsic has done this year towards improving that group. On the matter of summer storage, he said that ideas would be solicited from the students, and a solution would hopefully be arrived at. In supporting the SLC proposals on neutral space, Sweigart empha­sized that the SLC can be viable. "It is a policy forming body, not a power body," he stated. The administration and the student body will have to meet halfway on matters, as has been done with neutral space, he said. Both Sweigart and Walsh have experience in student activities. Sweigart was business manager for the Student Union Academic Com­mission last year, and served as public relations chairman for the same group last semester. Walsh is serving as financial affairs chairman for the Junior Parent's Weekend. 
Sweigart stressed that his would be an open administration, and ~ould encourage constructive criti­ct~m. ·;yve're _goin~. to mak,e mtstakes, he satd. We don t 
"The seventh session will be a year's co-chairman. The project, post-training interview in which then known as SHARE, operatedvolunteers will be presented with a from Holy Cross basement every 
potential problem and asked to night last year, but was not respond," she added. re-established last semester. The Hotline was first begun last "We needed more support from year by St. Mary's student gov­Notre Dame and wider publicity," ernment, according to Bilec, last Bilec explained. 

It '* t+ Step<:tn Center :+

t t. • 
t .-1.:\ t. • 
t • .. .!!! t Tickets $2.00 • 
t MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM 




t: •• 
t THURSDAY , MARCH 11 -8:00 PM tt Available Fri. afternoon at t! TICKETS ON SALE NOW AT BOX OFFICE tt SU ticket office and t 
' 11 to 5 PM $6.50 -$5.50 -$4.50 -Reserved t+ , MAILORDERSTO:M.c.A.• 211 NORTH t+ Sat at the door 
' MICHIGAN STREET, SO. BEND, 46601 • • 
•---~~~~~~~~~~~~--~··················· 

*~d~~rver 
Founded November 3, 1966 
EDITORIAL BOARD of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. It does not necessarily Terry Keeney £ditor-in-Chief reflect the policies of either institution. -The news is reported 
The Observer is published by the students of the University 
AI Rutherford Managing £ditor as accurately and objectively .s possible. Editorials represent 
Jim Eider Exeartive £ditor the ottinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Com­Pat Hanifin Editorial Editormentaries are the views of Individual editors. Opinions, Bob Mader News Editorcartoons and regular column-s express the views of their Maureen Flynn Campus Editor
authors. Columnjspace Is available to all members of the community, and leHers are encouraged to promote the free Mary Janca St. Mary's Editor expression of varying opinions on campus. Ken Bradford Copy Editor 
Val Zurblis Wire Editor ll;ditorials.= 283-11715 News: 283-8661 Business: 283-747.1 
Tom O'Neil Features Editor Business Manager Tom Modglin Bill Brink Sports Editor Advertising Manager Tom·whelan Dan~g,ez Senior Night Editor 
Thursday, February 19, 1976 ~ 
DOONESBURY 
(A FINAL THe VIc& WORJ)OF PR/3MI&R. RE­CAtJT/ONTO SP&c:TFIJUY OUR. AMeRi­CAUTIONS 7H/3 

by Garry Trudeau 

(7He WINO 5Wt:5P-R/3: TH/3 lNG 7t/Rf}{}(jH 7HG 50VI~ He 70«/GR. H&RA/..05 PRf}fOS/35 A R/51N6 570RM A S70RM 

P. 0. BOx Q 
3) During the last trimester (last requires abortion on demand;" and three months), a state may pro­Justice William 0. Douglas: " ..

Legal 

scribe all abortions except those voluntary abortion at anytime necessary "for the preservation of and place regardless of medical the Ufe or health of the mother." standards would impinge on a right

Clear-up 

In practical effect, these catego­ful concern of society. The ries raise distinctions without a woman's health is part of that difference. During the first six concern; as is the life of the fetusDear Editor: months of its existence, the unborn after quickening;'' can be put down baby, as a result of these decisions, as examples of judicial muddle­In reporting and writing about has absolutely no protection under mindedness: for there is no escapethe decision of the United States the laws of the United States. And from the proposition that these Supreme Court in Roe v. Wade, the any protection that the unborn decisions have established abor­news media has commonly misstat­baby appears, at first glance, to tion-on-demand for the full nine ed the holding and therefore, the have during the last trimester, is months of pregnancy. 
current state of the law. The 
completely stripped away by the
Observer fell into this trap in its 
Court's determination as to what 
story of February 4, 1976, on constitutes the "health" of the John Connaughton~President Ford's position on abor­pregnant woman. T.he definition is Assistant Professor of Law tion. Your statement that " ..­
so sweeping that it surely embraces 
.states are permitted to forbid 
every reason that a woman might
abortions in the final three months 
have for wanting an abortion.
of pregnancy'', is an incomplete 
The Court finds that health 
~summary of the Court's true hold­
includes psychological as well phy­
SMC

ing and is seriously misleading. 
sical well-being and states that the
Your interpretation softens the 

judgment as to whether the wo­
Wade decision to something less 
man's health is threatened is a 

Response
than the totally tragic error it 
medical judgment which "may be
actually is. With your permission I 
exercised in the light of all factors-­
would like to present a statement of 
physical, emotional, psychological, 
what the Court held and what familial, and the woman's age-­Dear Editor: became, therefore, the law of the 
relevant to the well-being of the
land. 
patient." Clearly the Court's idea St. Mary's is the community acrossIn.Wade, and its companion case of health includes, besides the . the road with 1700 women in of Doe v. Bolton, the United States obvious physical and mental as­attendance. We are a small group Supreme Court, by a vote of seven pects, nearly any sociological or of people striving to live and learn to two, declared unconstitutional economic factor that a woman within the limits the college hasTexas and Georgia statutes regula­might wish to raise. set. We are a small enoughting abortion. In so doing, the It may be that on this particular community that we can be control­Court established standards which point, at least, the Court knew led by policies enacted within aall state laws must meet in order to exactly what it was doing: for it is flexible framework. We recognize be, in the Court's view, constitu­well established that valid medical that a need for the clarification oftional. The standards fall in_to or psychiatric reasons for abortion these policies, but refuse to bethree categories built around the are encountered, today, about as trapped by the dictates of stricttrimesters of the unborn baby's often as one meets dinosaurs in guidelines and stringent rules. Inexistence: Saint Joseph's County. "Thera­this letter, we respond to your1) During the first trimester(first peutic abortion" is, for all intents request for a clarification of ourthree months), a state may not and purposes, a myth, and without parietal policy which becomes nec­regulate abortion in any way; the the Court's broad definition of essary as a result of several specific decision is to be exercised freely by health there could be virtually no incidents and the ensuing confus­the pregnant woman and her abortions during the last three ion. Specifically, we respond tophysician. 
months of pregnancy. your editorial of Friday, February2) During the second trimester In view of this, the pious 13:(fourth, fifth, and sixth months), a pronouncements of Justice Harry "The problem is not that the rulestate may enact laws regulating A. Blackmun:"... this right to itself is bad, nor is it that visitationabortion, but only if such laws abort is not unqualified and must hours need be changed . . . The real "reasonably relate to the preserva­be considered against important problem is the confusion thattion and protection of maternal state interest in regulation;" of evolved in the aftermath of thehealth." (The Court's use of the Chief Justice Warren E. Burger: event.
word "maternal" in this context "Plainly the Court today rejects This problem is easily reconcil­seems a rather poor choice.) 
any _claim that the Constitution ed. Following is the parietal policy 

for St. Mary's which has worked for 
two years and will continue to work 
for our community: 
Visitation hours are Friday from 6p.m. to 12a.m., Saturday from 1p.m. to 12a.m. and Sunday from 1p.m. to Sp.m. In order to maintain a reasonable level of security within the dorms, all male guests must be escorted by a resident. They must sign in and out and leave an ID. 
Although alcohol is not allowed on campus (except for those over 21 with special permission from the assistant to the Vice-President for Student Affairs), parties are allow­ed. Out of respect for those living around them, the students plan­ning a pa.rty check with the other people in the section and inform the hall director of the date, time, and place of the party and the approximate number of people who will be attending . If there will be a large number of guests arriving and leaving at the same time (as determined by the hall director), the student planning the party will be required to help with the signing in and out oftheir guests. 
Hopefully this reiteration of poli­cy will clear up the confusion and the tempest which the Observer articles created. These policies are the logical outgrowth of an attempt to work within the limitations of the parietal policy, established by the Board of Regents and the college president in response to student demands, and the 21-year-old drin­king law in Indiana. 
Joan McDermott, SPB Mary Lou Bllek, VP Student Affairs Joan Durlacher, VP for Academic 
Affairs 
St. Mary's Student Assembly 


Thief? 

Dear Editor; 
I would like to relate an incident 
which to me seems to be atrocious, 
if not illegal: 
Thursday morning, I was awak­ened by a phone call from my girlfriend who informed me that my car, (which she and fellow students use to drive to a student-teaching class), did not start and that they had missed their class. The car had been parked in the main lot at St. Mary's, and was registered with Security so it would not be ticketed on Wednesday nights. 
Upon arriving at my car on Thursday afternoon(after classes) I found that the main distributor wire had been pulled, leaving the car inoperable. Believing it to be the work ofpranksters,~ decided to report the incident to the St. Mary's Security Police. I found the officer in charge outside his office clipping the hair of his dog, and proceeded to explain that my distributor wire had been pulled. 
Immediately he hurled a volley of obscene words at me, accusing me of sleeping with a girl at Augusta Hall allnight. The wire, he said, was not the issue, as he claimed that there was a male student who had sneaked into Augusta last night, and since my car was the only one around, that male was me. 
I proceeded to explain that I had not been anywhere near the cam­pus the night before, and had merely loaned the car to my girlfriend, as I do every night for her early Thursday morning class. I asked him to check the registra­tion, as the car was allowed to be parked there on Wednesday nights. He wasn't satisfied with the explanation, and was even more intrigued to know my girl­friend lives in LeMans, thinking I must be some type of super lover. In any case, I was destined for another five minutes of obscene abuse before going to the office to check my registration. 
In the office, he checked his red tape only to find that the car was allowed to spend Wednesday nights in the lot, and he began to realize that I had probably not stayed on campus in Augusta. 
Finally, returning to the issue of the stolen wire, I asked him if one of the officers had pulled it from my car. He replied, saying that it was "one of the few things they did not do." Then going behind a counter, he produced a 'handful of distribu­tor wires which he claimed his men had "found" in the lot, one of which "might" work. I chose one of the wires, large ef\.Ough and old enough to fit my car, and told him that it was probably my wire. He denied this, claiming it was a Chevrolet wire, not made for Pontiacs. (lcalled a Pontiac agency later, which told me that all GM wires are alike). Perhaps, just perhaps, it would work, he claim­ed. As I left the office, he told me that if he were my age and "could get away" with what I had "done", he would have done it too. sincerely hope the residents in Augusta lock their doors tonight! 
I returned to my car, replaced the wire, and started it instantly. Although I cannot prove that security stole my wire (because I don't have my name on all the wires), the circumstantial evidence is astounding. If so, the protection of virginity certainly does not include the dismantling of suspi­cious automobiles. 
Aside from the cost that this might have incurred, the moral of this story is: should you fmd the tires missing from your car in the St. Mary's lot, report promptly to SecurityJo find the thief. 
Skip Niemiec Classuf '76 

--------.,--------~­
MAY SARTON Moving Toward A More Healthy Mind-Set 


May Sarton, born in Belgium in 1912, was the daughter of George Sarton, the renowned historian. Her family emigrated to the United States in 1916 to escape the German invasion, and became naturalized citizens in 1924. She was educated at Shady Hill School and the High and Latin School, both in Cambridge, Mass. After her education, she went into the theatre, becoming director of her own off-Broadway troupe, which subsequently folded during the Depression. Ms. Sarton worked with the Office of War Information during WWII and after the war, she held a series of teaching positions including Stuart School, Boston; Southern Illinois Univer­sity; Harvard; Wellesley; Lindenwood College, and Agnes Scott College. 
Ms. Sarton has written some thirty books of both poetry and fiction. Several of her books arc subtitled "A Fable" or '·'A Tale"; for instance, Miss Piekthom and Mr. Hare, A Talc, is a short story in which • Ms. Sarton writes about poetry at its fundamental level. it is a book for adults, but is written in a child's style. 
The setting of her first four books was Europe. These include Encounter In April, Inner Landscapes and The Single Hound. Because of her heritage, Ms. Sarton has strong ties with the continent. A Private Mythology is a collection of poetry about an extended journey she once made to Greece, via Japan and India. No less an important setting is the New Hampshire village where she has currently settled. Her home is the subject of Plant Dreaming 
Records 

LOGGINS 
~MESSINA 
Homestyle Goodness 

Loggins and Messina's first aJoum 
•contained a few good songs, but tended to get boring at times. "Your Mama Don't Dance " was the vehicle which not only greatly boosted sales ' of the album, but which also made the public aware of the arrival of a talented duo to the music scene. 
The follow-up album, "Full Sail," contained some really fine music, and saw the boys experimenting much more freely with their music. "I Love My Music" was the song selected for airplay from this album. After "Full Sail," Loggins and Messina seemed to hit a musical drought. They did release three albums, "Mother­lode," "On Stage" (a live album), and most recently, "So Fine" a collection of oldies. Neither. of these recordings earned more than mild interest. But the rain has come to end that drought in the form of their latest, "Native Sons." And it has come in abundance. 
"Native Sons" is a showcase for the multiple vocal and musical talents of Kenny Loggins and Jim Messina. Ably assisted by nine relatively unknown but highly skilled musicians (playing instur­ments ran~ing from cello and mandolin to oboe and English Horn), they present a very enjoyable forty minutes of music. Their music is hard to classify, as it seems to be a blend of ;:ock, jazz, country and pop, which when produced, yields a rich, highly professional sound which once it finds its way to your ears, proceeds to almost captivate you and force you to listen and you do so willingly, with complaint. You may even demand more. 
"Sweet Marie" and "When I was a Child" are two examples of the talent of Jim Messina. On "Sweet Marie," the message is clear and simply stated--Marie is the love of Jim's life, but she doesn't know he exists. It has an easy, free flowing Deep, in which she tells the story of what prompted her to settle in her own house, of what the foliage was like and what has come from living there for ten years. 
Five of Ms. Sarton's novels are based on a theme of marriage. These include: Shadow of a Man, The Bridge of Years, The Birth of a Grandfather, and Kinds of Love. Such a theme may seem unusual for a sixty-three year old single woman, but evidently she has found happiness in her solitude, while realizing that such a state is not appropriate for everyone. More ex­pectedly, another major theme of her novels has been how the "singular person may find his identity and-or fulfillment through a profession or art." She uses the example of the value of the single woman to society in The Small Room to demon­strate this theme. Although not defensive about her non-marital state, she often gives encouragement to those who choose to accept the consequences of the single state. Ms. Sarton interesting confronts the controversy of homosexuality in two of her books: in book Faithful arc the Wounds and Mrs. Stevens Hears the Mermaids Singing, the protagonist is a homosexual. 
Journal of a SoUtude, A Grain of Mustard Seed, A Durable Fire, Crucial Conversa­tions and As We Are Now. Crucial Conversations concerns the plight of a middle aged woman who starts a new life on her own, leaving her successful hus­band and children behind. As We Are Now is a sensitive portrayal of an aging woman 

style to it, and the music, while varied and complex, doesn't overpower the vocals. In "When I was a Child, " there is reminisc­ing of a boy's childhood with his father, who he, suddenly finds is dying. Messina says of time, "But time has no mercy, for the growing soul. It leaves us with memories, while it makes us grow old.'' 
Kenny Loggins wrote the title cut, "Native Son" (along with Dan Loggins). The story of the Native Son is an old one, about a man who finds peace of mind right where he started from, after searching for it everywhere. He also composed "My Lady, My Love," a song which sounds a lot like "Run, River Run" from the "Full Sail" album. Another love song, this could be the one selected for AM over-play. 
Perhaps the most interesting and unique aspect of this album .is the packaging. The album jacket looks as if it is a picture of Loggins and Messina in an old West surrounding, in an old fashioned copper frame, with intricate engravings on it. The inner sleeve is a replica of an old western newspaper, entitled, appropriately enough 
· --"The Native Son." With a date on it of January 20, 1875, the paper hails from Ojai California, and contains the motto in the upper righthand corner of "Serving the Cattlemen." In an imaginative move, Loggins and Messina have rimdomly placed the song lyrics amidst news stories in the paper. After you've been rocked arouad awhile, or felt sick because of too much pop, or when all of the disco starts sounding the same, place some "Native Son" on the turntable. You never knew music could 
sound so good. They are back where they belong, the Native Sons of today's musir.. 
Jim Coyne 
Thursday, February 19, 1976 

who gradually loses her grip with reality after she is placed in a nursing home. In this novel, Ms. Sarton has aptly described the trials, tribulations and fears that are often experienced by the elderly, and it is one of the books from which she particular­ly enjoys reading passages to her audience. 
May Sarton has gained prestige and fame through her numerous works; she has won various awards and honors throughout her distinguished career, including the New England Poetry Society Golded Rose Award (1945); The Bland Memorial Prize (1945) and the Balch Prize (1966), both sponsored by Poetry of Chicago; the 
the observer 
5 

American Poetry Society's Reynolds Prize in 1953; and the Poetry Festival Award from Johns Hopkins University in 1961. She has also received several endowments and fellowships that include the Donnelly Fellowship at Bryn Mawr College (1953); the Guggenheim Fellowship (1954); and the National Endowment for the Arts in 
1966. Ms. Sarton has a deep affection for nature. She reaches an emotional peak when surrounded by the beauty that nature provides. She enjoys gardening; in fact she is concerned with the fate of her house plants during her stay on campus. Garden­ing is such a favorite pastime of hers that it rivals writing poetry. In a recent address to the graduating class at Clark University, May Sarton offered an open invitation to join her in a revolution, a gentle revolution, one "against violence, impersonal power, mechanical solutions to human problems and ancient ideas about military might." The theme of this address is characteristic of all of her works. Her novels and poetry embody a compassion for people and appreciation for nature that the reader truly enjoys experiencing. We invite you to attend Ms. Sarton's reading during the Literary Festival, to talk with her if the occasion arises, to become a part of her gentle revolution, one that involves, not violence nor force nor upheaval character­ized by turmoil, but a revolution of ideas,·a recognition and appreciation of self and others, and a communion with and respect for our environment. 
Kathy Fitzpatrick S John Hennigan 


Ms. Sarton's most recent books include: ,-----------------------------------~ 
.Records 






BOWIE 
Shifting 
Gears 
A Little 
When Y,oung Americans was first relea­sed the prevailing sentiment was that Bowie had sold out to the commercial interests at RCA. Bowie's foray into the highly commercial sound of disco however, was merely an ironic undercutting to the major theme of the album: the degenera­tion of youthful attitudes. What better way for him to sing about his "Americans" than through the most illiterate, imbecilic and popular style of music existant. Yeah I Do the Hustle! And that's exactly what Davie did: l!e hustled the record right past the unsuspecting, dance-crazed consu­mers. The crowd, he knew, only wanted a forceful heat that they could dance mindlessly to in a deranged sort of mating ritual. Just the type of people he could put down without them ever realizing it, or caring about it for that matter. For the more perceptive souls among the unsophis­ticated Aborigines, Young Americans proved that you didn't have to be stupid to be funky, although I'd be the first to admit that in the case of groups like KC and the Sunshine Band, Ohio Players and Barry White it often seems to be a distinct advantage. 
After reading aboutStatlon To Station in. the rock press, it seemed that Bowie was again attempting to experiment with an alien style. In an interview in the latest issue of RoiUng Stone, he not only expressed his desire to move away from rrock and roll, but renounced it altogether. Later on in this startling rap, Bowie made it plain that he planned to become the next Frank Sinatra and confirmed that he would do it as a bisexual. Now, I know Frank Sinatra's no homosexual and, speaking for Italians,l can say the species doesn't even exist except in the case of a few hairdressers and Monti Rock who's half Puerto Rican and doesn't really count; so I guess what Bowie really had in mind was that he wanted to become the next Johnny 
A very noble ambition indeed, a height of artistry many never reach, much less aspire to, and one that makes a lot more sense, especially when one realizes that "Starngers In The Night" is not inclu­ded on the album, but "Wild Is The W\nd," an old Mathis hit, is. 
The music on StatlonToStatlon is more 

~. 
subdued with Bowie singing in a deliber­ate, very self-conscious stvle. Yet the lo is not as radical a departure as he might have led us to believe. The six songs on the albu.m are all slick production numbers, with most of the same personnel from the previous lp lending their support. It is an interesting and entertaining though some­what mechanical effort; a production that mixes Bowie's voice so that it has a hollow and reverberating quality, making him sound like he's coming to us via satellite. 
"Station To ·Station," the title track, is the longest and most complicated cut on the album. It ts 'blsically a statement of a philosophical attitude that, for want of a better word, may be termed existentiaL Over the seemingly disparate sounds of Carlos Alomar's wailing guitar and the syncopated rhythm section, Bowie mourn­fully describ~:s life as consisting only of transitory and illusionary qualities. The two transitional changes of rhythm that follow are used to underscore his gradual realization and then acceptance of the vicissitudes of life. In the end, it's Bowie as the European visionary advising us ''that the European pattern is here," while racing us to the finish. 
Frank Sinatra fans have nothing to worry about: Dave doesn't possess half the vocal qualities he has (but then who does?), and Johnny Mathis wouldn't be caught dead singing any of these songs. Perhaps my major reservation toward STS though, regardless of Bowie's professed intentions, is that it shows little sense of direction or artistic growth. While discussin~ his career in that sameRolllna Stone interview, 
Bowie seemed to feel that those were the same mistakes that had marred his earlier efforts. Well, he can say what he likes, but 
there isn't anything as good as "Rebel Rebel:' on this Ip. 
Dominick Salemi 
Thursday, February 19, 1976 

the observer 

·I



SLC candidates set forth positions 
(continued from page 1) ly. He expressed hope that too much .. " further. · tion is vital and that there should 
junior, believes that there is a 
•'vital communication link needed between the students and their elected representatives." This link, he explained, is broken be­cause the SLC appears as a close elite group and most people don't even know who their representative is. . 
Russell is proposing an associate plan. This plan is to have people in each hall either friends or students interested in getting involved, as contacts who he would be in commucication with daily or week­

'Experience in leadership' 
The Indiana Public Interest Re­search Group of Notre Dame (lnPIRG) is sponsoring a seminar on environmental education for the elementary school teachers of St. Joseph county. The seminar will be held on Sat., Feb. 28, on the campus of Notre Dame, with the first session scheduled for 9:00 
a.m. in the Architecture Building. 
The theme of the conference will be ''Outdoor Education and Cur­riculum Revitalization.'' Emphasis will be placed on the introduction of environmental appreciation into other elementary school subjects, such as history or geography, that traditionally have left this role to be dealt with in science courses. 

A second aspect of the seminar will be a presentation of outdoor activities that can give the student a chance to actually be surrounded by the environment that he or she has studied in the classroom. "Tools such as field trips and nature hikes will be evaluated for their effectiveness in generating a respect for the environment in elementary school children," says Julie Englehart, the coordinator for the seminar. 
Speakers will include Jack Schnell, Environmental Education Consultant for the State Depart­ment of Public Instruction of Ind­iana. Schnell is an expert on the subject of curriculum revitalization, and has conducted other seminars through their attitudes and ideas he could get a good idea of the problems present and what should be done about them. · 
He further stated that through this plan he could show the administration that the views he presents are the students' and not his own and will therefor gain more response from the administration. 
"The main thing is to find out why the SLC is running into such a block," stated Jeff Simnick, a junior. "The SLC is raising a lot of questions but not accomplishing 

Gassman-Casey platform outlined 
(continued from page 1) 
Casey, running for vice president on the ticket, is presently hall president of Pangborn. 
He is also the Illinois state delegation chairman to the Mock Convention and chairman of Friday in the An Tostal· festivities. 
Casey is a junior government majo~ from Chicago. 
Their platform stresses the dif­ferent factions of Student Govern­ment working together. "The main thrust of our platform is to work with our experience towards more communication and cooperation," Gassman explains. 
One oftheir main ideas is to have a representative from both Student Government and Student Union at each of the HPC meetings. 
''This would give us better interaction between bodies, allev­iate misunderstandings and facili­tate a stronger, united effort," said Gassman. 

··Since HPC is the most student representative body on campus, it should have more input into stud­ent government and student union," commented Casey, a pres­ent member of the HPC. 
Another project is to have a student body Congress made up of representatives from the HPC, Student Union, SLC, student body president and vice president. 
"The importance of the Con­gress idea is to know that it is not increasing bureaucracy on cam­pus," Gassman stresses. 
The Congress would meet twice a year. Their first meeting at the beginning of the year would allow each group to present their plans and goals for the semester. 
This would increase the student input, via the HPC, into the student government and prevent duplica­tion of efforts by the different groups. 
The second meeting of the Congress at the end of the year would evaluate the year, and reassess their goals. 
A third plan is to improve the student government's public rela­tions. They would create the posi­tion of a press secretary and would hope for a ''friendly and not adversary relationship with the Observer and WSND." 
Their platform also includes provisions to continue projects already started by student govern­ment. 
A major provision of this is to continue working with the Aca­demic Council in looking into the overcrowding in the business col­lege. 
They would also like to further develop the judicial board system. Gassman claims that if judicial boards were recognized more on 
campus by the rectors and adminis­
/nP/RG to S"Onsor seminar tration, parietals and parties could 
fl be handled as hall affairs. 
On enVI••onmental educatl•on.
1 ' 

on this subject. Also scheduled is 
Wayne Schimpff, a specialist in the 
field of outdoor education. His 
appearance is sponsored by the 
Indiana Dunes National Lakeshore. 
In addition, other resource person­
nel from the South Bend area will 
aid in the discussions. 
"We are anticipating some lively discussion on the effectiveness of 'the programs suggested," Engle­hart added. "A summary of the topics discussed and the conclus­ions of those participating will be compiled and mailed to everyone 
that attends." 
The seminar is open to all 
elementary school teachers in St. 
Joseph county, and there is no fee 
required. It is requested that 
anyone wishing to attend contact 
Englehart at 283-1327, for further 
details and directions. 
He further stated that their treat-Simnick hopes that through his ment of the Committee on Under-own example of involvement he graduate Living (COUL) and the could get other students involved. off-campus housing was good but North Quad there is a need to generate more Mary Charchut, a junior, stated student interest in the SLC. that she is stressing five areas. Simnick hopes to appoint students Communication between the SLC to ad hoc committees in order to and HPC; responsibility of the increase student involvment. student organizations to report 
•'The general atmosphere here is their activities to students; more more inclined to academics rather social areas; more double-listed than social concerns," he said. courses and more student partici-The students are more concerned pation in the SLC are the issues with grades and feel they don't that she highlighted. have time to get involved he stated Charchut said that communica­
"This is the best route in getting
things changed in these areas," Gassman contends. 
Gassman and Casey intend to work even more with the Indiana Student Lobby to lower the drinl{­ing age. "They came close. to passing it this year in an election year. I think we'll have an even better chance to get it passed next year in a regular session," Gass­man commented. 
Gassman praised the work done in the Student Union this year. ''They have shown they can work well with good people," he ex­plained. "By running it effectively we'll be able to provide more services for the students," he added. 
Another point is to pursue more involvement with the board of trustees and especially the Student Affairs Committee. They strongly advocate more student input into both these. 
*SPECIALS* $1.49 
Mon: Chopped Steak Dinner 
OPEN

Tues: Ribeye Steak 
Dinner 11 to 9 P Wed: Ham Steak 
Dinner EVERYDA Thur: Chopped or 
1516 N.

Ribeye Steak Fri: Fish Dinner IRONWOOD Includes Angus POtato, Salad and Toast 
A final provision is to continue to work on the COUL report. "We'd like to make sure they're pushed through, not just dropped," Gass­man said. 
Along with all of these, Gassman further hopes to improve student­faculty relations. He attributes his success in the calendar issue to this. 
"By working closely with them, we'll have more input, a united. front and thus a better chance for success," he explains. 
Both Casey and Gassman claim all their promises are realistic. "They're all feasible ideas; no radical promises or gimmicks," contends Gassman. 
be more communication and re­porting by the student organiza­tions. "They're all working for the same goal, to improve life at N.D., and together they could get more done," she said. 
Charchut has worked for Busi­ness .Review, Ombudsman and as hall co-ordinator of the social commission. She stated that she has experience that could be impor­tant to the SLC as they need representation from all areas. 
As an incumbent Ed Van Tassel, a junior, believes that he has the 
inval~able expe~ience of continuity 
that 1s a very Important factor. 

iD~::~=~~;,:~~!~~o:~~: 
uance of leadership and ideas is good," he said. 
Van Tassel stated that this year was the first good year that the SLC has had in a while. "We've dealt effectively with COUL recommend­ations, visitation hours and off­campus problems and have worked together with the administration and students," he further stated. 
A big factor, he continued, "is continuing what we've gotten our­selves into.'' And, next year is noing to be one of even greater co-ordindation between the HPC, student government and SLC. I'll work on it," he said. 
Gottsacker stated that he would 

also like to arrange a forum for the 
off-campus candidates, possibly at 
the Campus View Apartments. 
I

..----.~·~.•J/•..•jBattery Powered 13"xl3" 
~-..,;·,/ 
~ 
\ 


~ · I Fighting Irish Clocks 
$32 POSTAGE PAID !NO C.O.D.) (AVAILABLE FOR FUND RAISERS) 
M&E Enterprises P.O. Box 95 Benton Harbor Mi. 49022 
ALLOW 3 WEEKS FOR DELIVERY 
f1DDIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIUIIHIIIIIIIIIII-IRIHHIIDHIIIWIICCZLIIIL 
I THE POSTER PLACE i 
i = 
i 100 11x17 POSTERS only $10.00 ! 
= 
e- - 
Ii !  • ••nsly·pr•nts 203 N. MAIN ST.  EiI  
~ -- SOUTH BEND  289-6977  ,.  §-- 

inJUDIIIIIIUIIWIIIUIIIIUIUIIIIIIUUIIIIUUIIIIHHIUUI--1-LIIIII••IIIIIIIIii 
CHALLENGE TO1 BE FREE 7:30 9:30 


LITTLE BIG MAN 
6:30 9:15 
Uuile.-tiuuse r=lix 
the observer 
··················*Campus Briefs *·················· 
ND law students 
Any information pertaining to m room 117 of Haggar Hall at J sexual abuse in St. Joseph County. the whereabouts of these tables p.m. Volunteers are men and women should be given to Br. Gorsch, Waddick, Assistant Dean in the who can accompany a victim when Farley activities 
defeated in finals 
Law students at Notre Dame advanced to the finals of the National Mock Trial Competition in Houston, Tex., this week before losing to Harvard University. They served as plaintiffs in a simulated case tried before a jury. 
Winners of the Region Four competition conducted last month indetroit, the Notre Dame students defeated teams from the University of Texas and University of Wash· ington before the loss to in the final round to Harvard. 
Members of the team are David Bottger, Columbus, Ohio; William Kane, Hayes, Kan., and Nancy O'Connor, Rockville, Md. Dr. James H. Seckinger is faculty advisor for the group. 

Tables missing from LaFortune 
Three tables valued at seventy 
dollars each are missing from the 
Rathskellar of LaFortune. These 
tables are made of oakwood and 
have a light oak stain. 
They are 40" long. 18" wide and 
30" high. There is a middle shelf 
supported by four wood plugs of 
Seahorse figurine at each post. 
LaFortune page. 

Dean of Business leaves for Cairo 
Brother Leo V. Ryan, C.S.C., 
dean of the College of Business 
Administration at Notre Dame has 
joined a U.S. State Department-US 
Information Agency group this 
week in Cairo, Egypt, for a cultural 
and educational study of the United 
Arab Republic. 
A Foreign Service Reserve Offic­er, recently retired, Ryan has participated in similar visits to Russia in 1974 and to Japan in 1975. While in the foreign service, he served as deputy director and later as director of the Peace Corps in Nigeria. 
He will participate in the meet­ings at American University in Cairo concerned with the utilization of professional management per­sonel from American Collegiate Schools of Business in the Arab nations during the current visit. 
Dean addresses Pre-Law society 
Dean Robert Waddick will add­ress the members of the Notre Dame Pre-Law Society on Feb., 23, 


Forum launches campaign 
(continued from page 1) He felt students had to realize ments directly through the Obser· their power is limited because most ver, of the University's money does not Walsh emphasized the import· come from the students. ''This 
ance of leadership and student institution is bigger than any involvement. "A leader is only student body past or present," he effective when he has people stated. following him." He encourages He blamed Student Government constructive critism if elected and for its inability to gain student 
pleaded to students to get out and support. He pointed to the fact that vote. only three tickets are entered in the 
Sweigart resigned as public rela­elections as evidence of student tions manager for the Academic apathy. He believes, "I wouldn't Commission to run for office. have a chance in hell of winning if W a Ish is presently financial affairs there were more." director for Junior Parent's Week­Boyle said, "This is the most ill end. concieved and ill run campaign."
Boyle-Gaa 

He said that academic pressureTim Boyle and his runningmate was the reason that he was not well Peter Gaa (who remained silent 
organized. His reason for runningthroughout the proceedings) wantt 
was to"give it a shot" and hope he a chance to work inside of student 
could prove himself. government instead of "complain­ing from the outside." He complimented this year's Boyle's first comment was on his Student Government for its effort T-shirt. "It says I'm insane and in lobbying down state and for the thats what I am." He thought "red "Laugh in" demonstration over the tape slowed down student govern-­calendar issue. "It was a piece of ment. "It's about time we do genious," he joked. "I laughed a something about it," he said. lot." 


BULLA SHED 
a warm spot on a cold day! 
JOIN US -meet new people especially if you have never come 
This Friday and every Friday Mass-Dinner 5:15pm 

College of Arts and Letters is also the Pre-Law Advisor. His talk on Monday night will focus on present juniors with an interest in attend­ing law school. Admissions pro­cedures, selection of schools and importance of the LSAT will be included in the meeting. 
Anyone interested in applying to law school is urged to· attend this session. 
Mock campaign sessions today 
The Mock Convention Campaign Committee will be sponsoring an­other of its "Campaign Central" information sessions Thurs., Feb. 19 from 8-11 p.m. in the Library foyer. These sessions are meant tp provide an opportunity for stud­ents to learn about the individual candidates and issues. 
The sessions are scheduled for every Wednesday and Thursday in the Library foyer. 

S-0-S needs volunteers 
The Women's Committee on Sex Offenses is seeking prospective volunteers for S-0-S (Sex Offense Staff), a confidential emotional support service for victims of 
seeking medical or legal attention. 
They  must  also  be  available  for  
telephone contact.  
The  S-0-S  volunteers  can  be  

reached twenty-four hours a day, seven days a week through Hotline, a crisis intervention telephone ser­vice. 
A ten-session training program will begin in March with both daytime and evening sessions. Training focuses on the needs of victims, psychologically and emoti­onally. Volunteers are also educat­ed in the areas of medical and legal procedures, referrals, and intake procedures. All areas of sexual abuse are discus~ed from rape to child molestation to indecent expo­
sure. 

Anyone interested in becoming a volunteer or learning more about S-0-S can call Hotline (232-3344). 
coming to a close 
Closing a month-long array of activities honoring its namesake, Farley Hall will host a free coffee­house on Wednesday, Feb.25. Featured entertainers include Ann Moriarity, Dave Shaheen, John Steinman, and Maria Costello and Bill Cary. 
Debbie Klug, chairman for the month's activities, recounted the history of Farley's coffeehouse, saying, "It was sort of a study· break thing. When the _8Uys were here it was sort of a tradition to get together on Wednesdays. There was no Nazz at the time." 
To be held in the dorm's base­ment Pop Farley Hoom, the coffee­house will run 9-12 p.m. The public is invited. 


"LADIES' NIGHT" 

TUESDAY & THURSDAY DANCE THIS WEEKEND TO SOUTH SHORE MICHIGAN'S TOP ROCK NIGHT ClUB! 
81UIIAGY'I 
.~-P.llllf'l 
Classified Ads 
WANTED For Sale: Blue-Gold ND Jacket. $ or wilf Picked up brown ski jacket identical to my 
barter for drugs. Call 287-6758. own in Fat Wally's Sat. nile with glasses -------------------·----------;--------in pocket. Need my own brown jacket 4 girls need rides to San Antonio, For Sale: 1968 dodge Charger 318, back desperately. Call Dennis or Mark Houston or anywhere south of there! automatic, power steering. Great cond. 8944. Help with gas, driving. Call Debbie, Snow tires and Mag wheels included. -----------------­6798. $600.00. Call 272-1710 or 272-4777 otter ------------------5:30p.m.Ride needed to Indianapolis this weekend------------------PERSONALS or any other. Call 4-4265 or 4-4275. Disneyland Murals from Mardi Gras for -----------------­------------------sale. Calll348. 
To our secret admirees: 
Need Marquette fix. Call Brian 1606. ------------------RSVP or you'll break our hearts. 
------------------Brick ranch within walking distance to XXOOX Need 2 GA Marquette tickets. Call John Notre Dame. 2-3 bedrooms, finished -----------------­1818. basement. Automatic sprinklers, garage "Winning Pants" please clarify. ------------------door opener. Air-conditioned, and many -----------------­Need ride for 1 or 2 to Chicago Friday, extras. $42,000. Call 232-0780. To the little Window washer: Feb. 20. Call 8386. ------------------How about next week? I am unable ------------------(due to extreme emotional stress) to wail 
Need 4 Marquette tickets for old alumni · any longer.
willing to negotiate$$. Call 3258,9-12 FORRENT Good-byel:lluep.m. ------------------------------------~s. 
Need up to 4 Marquette fix, student or For Rent: Next school year · 9-month Mom, tell little Kate to elarn to knock GA. Will pay any price. Call Pete, lease. Two furnished houses· 4 bedroom louder . if may have been me in my234-6352. and 5 bedroom. Near N.D. Call 234-2626. briefs! 
Dad Need 5 Marquette tickets. Call Eileen or For Rent: Furnished houses, two to seven -----------------­marion 6798. bedroom, available for September or PARTY-The Fonz says everyone Is in­------------------June. Call 234-9364. vited to an 8-kegger at Bossy's Saturday Need GA and student tickets for Mar ------------------Night after the Michigan St. game. Held quette badly. Please call Pat 1654. 2 rooms for rent $40. Call 233-1329. in Campus View Community Ctr. from 9 
pm 2 am. Wanted: GA tickets for Marquette. Call For Rent: Furnished two-bedroom home. -----------------­Tom at 7781. Completely redecorated. Wall to wall Secret A~mi~er, 
------------:-------carpeting, draperies throughout. Special
Wan_ted: 2 Marquette l1x. Please call deal to end of semester. Tern 287-6638. 283-7595 283-8722 (after 6pm) 
your price. Call Tom 8334. 
Need many West. Mich. tix! Call 
NOTICES

233-9841 after 10 p.m. 
Need ride to iowa City on February 20. Some of our best friends are straight. Gay Call Julie, 4220. Community of Notre Dame. Hotline 8870 -D---,-,---dl-M----,,-,.-k-,-B-:-Fri. and Sat. 8-10 p.m. Or write P.O. Box 
espera e y nee arque e 1C e . 1g 
206

money · Call Mike 8720. _.....:_ ________________ ------------------will do typing, experienced, term pap-
Wanted: Tickets for Western Michigan ers, manuscripts, etc. Call: 233-8512. 
game. 4 G.A. & 2 Students. Please call -----------------­Jim 6931. Typing: 35 cents per page. Pick-up & ------t-T-:----T--$-l-OO_O_ delivery $2.00. Call Dan 272-5549. 
Managemen ra1nee -o 4, ------------------­Ready for a new career? We are Rich Man Poor an available at the Boo~ interviewing for a management training Barn. Call and reserve a copy. 272-5520. program that will allow you to earn -----------------­$25•000 ?r more in 5 years_ wh!le Village Voice with the CIA report leaked repres~nt1~g our_ ~op team of f1nanc1ai by Daniel Schorr now at Pandora's Books,
speCialists 1n Equ111es, Insurance, Mortg. 937 s. B. Ave. ages and Tax Shelters. Send your resume -----------------­
to: 

Freshmen:Charles M. Newbanks Last chance to buy a '75 Dogbook! if120 W. LaSalle Suite 906 you'd like one, come to Student Union.
South Bend, Ind. 46<\01 1-3 p.m. MWF. $2.00. 
Accurate, fast typing. Mrs Donoho, 232-0746.
FOR SALE 
For Sale: 1967 Oids Della 88. Aged well. 
LOST & FOUND

Best offer 289-8032. Keep trying. 
~~~~~~~.:._ __________ Lost: Red vinyl Bio. notebook in Engin.Aud .. Great sentimental value. Please
For Sale: Used Harmony guitar $20. call Mona at 1321. 
289-8849. Lost: Keys, No. 511, 1067 and 2 small 
T·Shirts, T-Shirts, T-Shirts. for clubs and dorms. Call Dave, 277-0948. ~~·_R_:_w~~.:_~~~~-------­
How n1ce 11 would be to thank you in person. 
Nancy 

Wednesday's Clue· No. 5 . Science and art are not far apart, but as you can see, Wacky is still free. No. 6 . 7 and 3 makes It easy I<? see. 
ILLINOISIANS: CAN YOU SPARE WEEKEND TO HELP IN GOVERNOR WALKER'S RE-ELECTION CAM­PAIGN? TRANSPORTATION, LOD­GING, AND MEALS PROVIDED. FOR DETAILS, CALL THIS WEEK, CATHY 284-4103. 
Got a question about drinking? Red K. of Michigan State Univ. will have some answers at the open discussion meeting of Alcoholics Anonymous. 7:30 p.m.Mon. Feb. 23, Athletic Dept. Aud., ACC. Everybody welcome. For more informal ion, call 8809. 
Charles . 

You might as well know, before this goes too tar, you weren't the intended subject of this travesty, dear. 
Flash 

Help! Help! Would the persons who "borrowed" the resume books from the Placement Bureau please return them. Other students are waiting. 
Dear Valentine, I'm waiting. Expose yourself. Buzz 
For Thursday's clue . listen to 
WSND • 6:40am. 
Brother Vinnie· He drinks a few brews 
Thinks He's a political Don 
Is susceptible to ABUSE 
Found: Near north door to Huddle, St. And got stung by the big Con. 
Mayline drawing board 24x30. Call Joe 
Mary's Academy class ring 1967. Call Best of Luck
1130. 

Mike 288-1237. J & K & 8 

Thursday, February 19, 1976
the observer 

------~... 
Irish battle troubled Fordham team 

by Ernie Torriero 
In this, the year of renaissance for collegiate basketball in the City of Gotham, Notre Dame and Ford­ham meet in a controversial match­up in the city's fabled Madison Square Garden. The game, part of a Garden twin-bill is scheduled for 9 pm. Long Island University and Manhattan provide the entertain­ment in the first game. 
A mere ten days ago, Fordham basketball was living the life of obscurity reserved for losers. The Ram program had fallen on ill times, and like the city's financial crisis, few cared to draw attention to it. 
Then came a leak in the Fordham hierarchy and the words about Ram mentor Hal Wissel's impending doom have been coming ever since. 
The media has besieged Fordham basketball with Wissel drawing the brunt of the attention. The name most mentioned as the probable new Ram messiah is Notre Dame assistant Frank McLaughlin. 
"I haves not been contacted by Fordham," McLaughlin, a former Ram captain, emphasized all week. 
"The speculation has come from the New York media and sources on the Fordham campus." 
The situation appeared to be reaching a climax last night when the Fordham athletic board met for several hours, but no decision was announced, so Coach Hal will lead the Rams into battle with the Irish, and McLaughlin will still be the in the center of the controversy. 
"I've become the middle-man," McLaughlin complained yesterday. 
''A strong statement from the Fordham athletic department would have avoided the embar­assment the school suffered of 

8"11 B . k ~--~--~·········'l"o.········.'!.····························································································
1 r1n F.·.·····*··...·»··="··"'··········=-=···-························...·············-···················"'····················· 
The Irish Eye 
~:-.=====~;====::-?h-!<1'//.=:=:::===========:::A drian's getting killed 
The word is out. The last several Notre Dame games have raised the doubts. People here and everywhere are saying, "What's wrong with Adrian Dantley, he's not playing like he used to?" The answer is that Adrian Dantley is getting killed. 
Indeed, as the Irish head down the stretch toward the playoffs, the constant punishment to which Dantley has been subjected during games is one of the chief concerns to head coach Digger Phelps. All his life A.D. has had to contend with tight coverage and physical punishment, but since
.. 
his rise to stardom the abuse has become worse. This is especially true in the last several games in which opponents with little chance of beating ND try to stop the Irish by stopping Dantley. . 
"He's been getting killed," says Phelps. "A lesser player would have been dead a month ago." 
"Adrian got murdered out there tonight," emphasized forward Bruce Flowers after last Monday's game against Butler. "I sat there and watched it-hipchecks, elbows, pushing and shoving-it was terrible." 
The strategy is simple. Few teams have anyone that can guard Dantley singlehandedly so they go to a zone, or a box-and-one defense which can collapse on A.D. anytime he goes near the basket. A driving lay-up or a rebound goal, both vital parts of A.D.'s repertoire, has become a costly proposition for the All-American forward, as he has to contend with three or four men sagging onto him, or under him, or into him as the case may be. Dantley is the man to get, and trying to protect him is like trying to protect a state's witness testifying against the mob. 
Though the abuse is frustrating, Dantley takes it all in stride. 
"It's all part of the game," he admits. "Once you get a reputation, everyone's looking for you. They want to stop you any way they can. I've never blown my cool though. A lot of people might start a fight or something if they went through what I go through on the court." 
The truth is, it's been a lifelong story of the star from Washington D.C. Physical punishment is nothing new to him. 
"I've been through this all my life, in the playgrounds, in high school, and last year too. Whenever someone held me to twenty points, they got the headlines. That's the way it is now. I don't mind them playing physical ball as long as I can do it back." 
The rough play against Dantley stems from both team strategy and ' individual motivation. Coaches try to halt the Irish scoring by shutting off 
A.D. and individual players take personal pride in trying to neutralize him. Often the only way to do this is to get rough, and even that hasn't been working this year. When Dantley gets slowed down, the rest of the Irish lineup takes up the slack, and in almost every case A.D. recovers to lead Notre Dame in scoring by the game's end. 
"I don't think there's anyone in the country that can stay with me one-on-one, so I'm worried about their other four players," he explains. "They've been doubling up. playing match-up zones, etc. That's why I think the NCAA should outlaw zones, and go with a man-to-man defense. That will prepare players for the pros.'' 
All year long Phelps has done his best to protect his players against injury, and he particularly has to watch out for Dantley. He is quick to let the officials know when he thinks A.D. is being deliberately mistreated, and is willing to take a technical to stand up for him and the rest of the Irish. This job has become more difficult the past several weeks. 
"Like I said, I don't mind being physical," Dantley repeats. "I just don't want to get hurt. It's the cheap shots I'm worried about." With the playoffs just several weeks alone, Dantley's concern is shared by Phelps and every other Irish fan across the country. 
having their coach kicked around so much. They are going to have over 125 applicants for that job if it becomes available." 
Fordham is suffereing through a 7-15 season and a stretch that has seen only two Ram victories in the last 14 outings. 
"Forget the records," is the quick retort of Irish coach Digger Phelps. "You can bet Fordham will be playing solely on emotion. There are many factors influencing this game." 
Aside from the McLaughlin controversy , there is the fact that Phelps was the last man to lead Fordham into the halls of basket­ball superiority. The Rams gave Phelps his first head college job and the Digger responded with a 26-3 record. When Phelps left, with assistant McLaughlin and a prime recruit, Notre Dame was chastised for weeks in the New York press. 
''You also must remember this is our second trip to New York this season," Phelps explains. "We lost that exhibition game to the Russians in November. We feel we have to prove ourselves to the New York public. Then there is the fact that many Notre Dame alumni live in the New York area and they come out to cheer us on." 
Despite these outside influences, Fordham still has to be rated a heavy underdog to the 18-3 Irish. Yet the Notre Dame coaches seem to sense the Irish are in for quite a tusse. 
"I hadn't seen Fordham until last week," McLaughlin said, "and everyone I had talked to said Fordham was on of the worst teams they have seen all year. But I didn't find it this way. I saw them play South Carolina and they were 
by Fred Herbst 

Fencing may not be the most popular sport on campus, but it's the winningest. And the success of the fencing team is in no small part due to the excellence of Mike Sullivan. 
The Peabody, Mass. freshman has compiled a personal record of 33 wins against a single loss in leading the Irish to a school record of 33 wins in a row and top ranking among the nation's college fencing teams. 
''A good reason· for the success of our team is Mike Sullivan," Coach Mike DeCicco said. "He's an excellent sabreman and he's certainly better than any freshman that we've ever had." 
Sullivan began to fence when he was eight eight years old at a local YMCA. While his high school didn't hav~ a fencing team, he continued to fence at a private club under the direction of Joe Pechin­sky. Pechinsky, a well-known fencing coach in the East, has produce a number of Olympic fencers as well as 14-year-old Jane Angelackis who jsut won the wo men's foil championship at the Junior Olympics this week. 
Sullivan won the U.S. Junior Olympic Sabre Championship last February and once again captured the championsh!Pthis week, thus becoming only the second fencer in histroy to wwin back-to-back Junior Olympic titles. 
Having competed in the Interna­tional Junior Olympics in Mexico City last year and planning to compete in them again this in Warsaw, Sullivan looks forward to 
fencing in the Olympic games. 
''I'll go to the Olympic Trials this 

year, but I started too late for 1976. 
Everyone else at the trials will have 
had two or three years experience, 
while I only qualified for the trials 
about a month ago,'' Sullivan said. 
"I've geen gearing myselffor 1980, 
that's a realistic goal for myself." 
His coach agrees with him. 

"There is no doubt in my mind that 
he's a strong contender for the 
1980 Games," DeCicco said." He's 
good now, and I think that Mike 
will be even better by then unless 
something unforseen happens." 
It's a good thing that Sullivan has set the Olympics as his goal, because there isn't much left for him to accomplish at Notre Dame. Only a freshman, he has already broken the Irish individual won-IQSt record. His win last weekend upped his slate to 33-1, beter than Jerry Finney's old mark of 31-1 and DeCicco believes that Sullivan is on his way to establishing a school career record that "no one will challenge." 
"Fencing in the East is a lot bigger than it is here," Sullivan said. "The competition isn't as good as what I'm used to. College fencing is not easy, but it's easier." 
Sullivan doesn't mind that the Irish fencing team despite its outstanding record doesn't get a lot of publicity. "Football is the big thing around here. I expect the football team to get the publicity. Afterall, they support the fencing team," he said. 
Sullivan's main concern at the moment is the success of the Irish. "Right now, the most important thing is that the team keep win­ning. I'm sure we'll go undefeated and we have a good chance to win the NCAA Championship." he said. 
With that attitude, and Mike Sullivan's ability, Notre Dame just might win the NCAA fencing trophy and become one of the more popular sports on campus. 
Women's b-ball game tonight 
The Notre Dame women's bas­ketball team will take on St. Joseph's of Renssalaer tonight at 8 
p.m. in the ACC Pit. 
awful tough.'' 
Though they came out on the short end, 75-65, the Rams got one of their best total team efforts of the season against the Gamecocks. Guard Stan Frankoski netted 26 points and 11 rebounds. 
"Frankoski was just amazing," McLaughlin asserted. "He has to be one of the best guards in the East. Fordham really hustled against South Carolina.'' 
Frankoski is the Ram leading scorer at just under 14 points per game. He is followed by Kevin Fallon, a 6-4 forward, who is scoring almost eleven points a contest. 
Kevin Collins, a 6-10 senior, is the Ram pivotman. Collins leads the team in rebounds, pulling down almost seven rebounds a night. 
Fordham uses Rich Dunphy (9.0 ppg), a 6-5 junior transfer from Providence, at the swing position and Kevin Brown (7. 7 ppg) is the other starting guard. 
"It's tough enough to have three difficult road games like Fordham, South Carolina and Dayton," Phelps concluded. "It's even harder when outside controversies psyche up the other team. The problems at Fordham have just added fuel to the fire. The Rams have something to prove to them­selves." 
IRISH ITEMS: This is the eighth straight year the Irish and Fordham have met. Notre Dame holds a 4-3 edge. The most memorable contest came in 1971 when Phelps and his Fordham squad out-dueled Notre Dame and Austin Carr, 94-88. The 
-~.. · .... 

Bill Paterno, here fighting for a loose.ball against West Virgi~ia, will be one of several Irish players returning to their home areas as Notre Dame tackles Fordham in New York tonight. [Photo by Chris Smith] 19,500 that jammed the Garden nationally through the services of that evening was a record only the ND networ_k. The game can recently broken by Indiana-St. only be seen m South Bend on John's in December (19,665). Chicago's WGN-TV, Channel 9. 
Tonight's game will be telecast Radio coverage will be supplied by WSBT and WNDU. 
Sullivan leads Irish fencers 











