
In North Carolina primary
Reagan scores unexp,!cted 
victory 
RALEIGH, N.C. (APJ --Ronald Reagan was flying from LaCros­In the Democratic primary, the "I think the results show the Reagan won North Carolina's Re­se, Wis., to Los Angeles at the hour arithmetic was: people of North Carolina have publican~esidential primary elec­of his first triumph. An aide in Carter 299,838 or 53 percent; joined the people of other states in tion last~ight, reviving his chal­Raleigh said he got word to the Wallace 194,838 or 35 percent; deciding that they want to choose lenge for the White House with a candidate, who was delighted. Sen. Henry M. Jackson of Wash-the presidential candidate directly 
startling upset over President It was the first time an incum­ington was running third, and he and not let powerful political ford. bent president had lost a presiden­had 25.158 percent of the vote; brokers do it for them," Carter Georgia's Jimmy Carter won tial primary since 1968 when No preference, which means said. handily in the Democratic primary. Lyndon B. Johnson was beaten in uncommitted delegates, 21,223 or 4 It was his fifth primary victory. Reagan's first primary victory Wisconsin. Johnson had renounc­percent; Jackson won in Massachusetts. after a season of defeats was ed his candidacy for another term Rep. Morris K. Udall of Arizona 
Campaigning in New York. Jack· 
magnified by the fact that it was two days before then-Sen. Eugene 13,340 or 2 percent; son said North Carolina doesn't unexpected, the comeback he J. McCarthy defeated him. Former Sen. Fred R. Harris of decide a presidential election and needed to silence suggestions that Oklahoma had I percent; Sen. Carter will have to prove himself in he 4uit the campaign. Republican totals Lloyd Bentsen of Texas. who has the big Northern industrial states The former California governor With 93 percent of North Caroli­dropped out of the campaign, got a that do. "He's got a long way to wa~ gaining 52 percent of the GOP na's 2,343 precincts counted, this scattering of votes. go," said Jackson. vote, running six percentage points was the Republican picture: That gave Carter 35 nominating Wallace, in Montgomery. Ala .. ahead of Ford. Reagan 94,824 or 52 percent; votes, Wallace 24, Jackson I. with said he will remain in the race and 
Carter led the Democratic field Ford 83,195 or 46 percent; I uncommitted. will launch an active campaign thb with SJ percent, trouncing George Uncommitted GOP delegates Carter, in St. Louis, said he weekend for Wisconsin's April h C Wallace hl bury any claim that 3, I I 7 or 2 percent. hadn't expected to run that well. primary. the Alabama governor had left to That gave Reagan 28 GOP Wallace had been a powerful He acknowledged that his latest speak for the South in the presiden­convention delegates, Ford 25, vote-getter in North Carolina in defeat "certainly doesn't help" his tial campaign. uncommitted one. past campaigns. REAGAN chances elsewhere. 


server 
st. mary's college

Vol. X, No. 105 Wednesday, March 24, 1976 
by Valerie Zurblis leadership her predecessors did." the Study of Higher Education. Executive Editor Dean Charles received her un­Before coming to Notre Dame, she dergraduate degree in English and taught three years as its executive 
Dr. Isabel Charles has been French in 1954 from Manhattan vice-president and academic dean. appointed dean of the College of College, Riverdale, N.Y., her mas­In 1973 Charles joined Notre Arts and Letters at Notre Dame, ters in English from Notre Dame in Dame's administration as an as­the first woman to hold a deanship 1960, and her doctorate in the same sistant dean of Arts and Letters and in the 134 year history of the tield five years later. She also has held a concurrent appointment University. pursued postdoctoral study at the as an associate professor of Eng­
The appointment was announced University of Michigan's Center for lish. March II by Rev. Theodore Hes­burgh, president of the University. Charles' appointment gives her direction of the University's largest college, which has 213 faculty members and I ,950 students. 
Charles plans to look at the curriculum of the college more 
S.ty goodbye to "Price and Pride" and "WEO" as Earl and lee 
closely for evaluation and work 
now l.tke over the old A&P to become the new E&l. See page 3. 
with the faculty. "Right now there 
jPiwto hy P.tul Clevenger I 
is a committee evaluating the 
·~------------------------------~ 

collegiate seminar program, and if you examine one Arts and Letters re4uirement, you need to look at the total set of requirements of the college and how they affect the 
Alcohol policy holds 
total curriculum," stated Charles. Charles also foresees evaluating

despite HPC efforts 
In· Barbara Breitenstein you never know," he commented. 

the college's graduate programs to 
-Staff Reporter · During the regular business of 

strengthen them. "In an era of 
the meeting, Paczesny made anoth­

financial stringency," she observ­
Whill' stressing the need for er statement, citing Campus View "it important us to
ed, is for
"new ideas," Bro. Just Paczesny, apartments as a "prime example of our graduate
sharpen programs,
vke-r-resident for Student Affairs, a coed housing unit." Paczesny our in
concentrating resources
stated yesterday that the current explained that he offered this areas where we a
can make

university alcohol policy will statement before a meeting of the 
.....tand as it is" despite efforts by singular contribution to advanced 
Executive Board of Trustees last 

study."
the Hall Presidents Council (HPC) week.
to liberalize alcohol usc in the halls. The appointment followed IS
The Council also received prog­

months of work by a search
The statement, which was a ress reports from committees, in­
committee, elected by the Arts and 
response by the Student Affairs cluding the planning and policyoffice to a survey of hall rectors, committee, and social space com­Letters College Council, following 
was released at the resignation of Dean Frederick
by Paczesny the mittee chairman John Reid gave an 

J. Crosson, who is currently on
regular meeting of the Student Life update on the proposals which 
study leave. Crosson plans to teach 
Council (SLC). The survey was werl' adopted in February. 
in the Philosophy department.
prompted by the HPC's rc4uest A full-menu restaurant in con­
When asked how she felt about
that alcohol be permitted in hall junction with the Nazz will open in 
being the first woman dean in
common rooms. the Rathskellar on April I. The 
Notre Dame history, Charles re­
"It i!-o our position," the letter menu will include small items, plied she found it hard to isolate by Marti Hogan since then has been teaching onlystates, "that the current policy sandwiches and deserts. It will be that aspect of the appointment. "I St. Mary's Editor one course. "I'm just going to shiftwhich doc~ not permit drinking in supplemented by the University feel more like a newly-appointed back to a full-time teaching load,"the common rooms should not he food services. 
dean rather than a woman dean. 
Detzlcr explained. The job has the same qualities
"It is our position that the current policy Three St. Mary's administrators Cannon was invited to St. Mary's
whether a man or woman has it, have announced their resignations in 1971 to serve as vice-president ofwhich does not permit drinking in the and the sex is accidental." in letters to St. Mary's President Student Affairs. She declined to Charles sees the appointment of John M. Duggan. The resignations comment on her reason for resig­
common rooms should not be changed." 

a woman as evidence of the serious will become effective July I. ning. commitment of Notre Dame toward Dr. Mary Alice Cannon, vice­"I have tenure at the College,"
changed." The committee has also begun 
coeducation. "Having gone coedu­president for Student Affairs, and Cannon said explaining her return The effect of allowing lounges to showing movies in the ballroom of cational. the University has a Dr. Jack Detzler, director of Com­to teaching next year. However,
he "used as bars," would be to LaFortune, and continues to show munity Relations, have resigned to
commitment to coeducation and she does not know what she will betransfer "the setting of Corby's or them every Monday and Thursday women arc capable of handling a return to full-time teaching next teaching.
Nickie's" to the lounges, and "load nights for 75 cents. The proposed position like this," remarked Char­year at St. Mary's. Sr. M. Lynch came to St.Mary's in 1973 the atmosphere with more alco­sound system in Lafortune "has les. Ellen Dolores Lynch, vice-president as vice-president for Public Rela­hol," the statement continues. been installed and will be in Fr. Hesburgh commented, for Public Relations and Develop­tions and Development. Sheoperation soon," Reid continued.
"We have no intention of chang­"Dean Charles brings to the dean­ment, plans to return to the declined to elaborate on her resig­ing the policy this year," Paczesny The SLC academic honesty ship a thorough knowledge of the Washington D.C. area next year. nation or her plans to return to explained, "but this does not close committee has been formed as a University--both as a former stu­Detzler has been at St. Mary's Washington D.C., where she was the door to the possibility of new division of the planning and policy dent and current administrator, for nine years serving as a history employed prior to St. Mary's. 
ideas. If new suggestions come up committee, and has named Peter and we are confident she will give professor. He became director of No replacements for these posi­this summer. for example. well, Johnson as chairman. the college the same admirable Community Relations in 1972 and tions have been announced. 


Dr. Isabel Charles, newly appointed Arts and Letters dean, is the first woman to become a dean in Notre Dame's history. (Photo by Paul Clevenger) 

SMC administrators resign 

2 the observer ... Wednesday, March 24, 1976 

,.---News Briefs--­
t========================lntemational 
Coup against Peron 
BUENOS AIRES Argentina--An armed forces coup against President Isabel Peron appeared under way early today. Military sources said Mrs. Peron would be replaced by a three-officer junta. No major armed resistance was expected to the developing takeover, but tanks and troops were in place at atrategic points throuahout this nation of 25 million. 

a,--Qn Campus Toda!J~-...... 
12:15 pm 
3:30 pm 
4 30 pm 
6 30 pm 
7 pm 
7 pm 
7 pm 
7 pm 
7:30pm 7:30pm 
7:30 pm 8 pm 8 pm 
8 pm 
8 & 10 pm --mass, lenten mass, Iafortune ballroom 

--design of humanistic work series, "what should business do:" by dr. william p. sexton, nd, hayes-healy auditorium 
--reilly lectures, "genetic basis of antibody diversi­ty" by dr. michael potter, rm 123 nieuwland science hall 
--meeting, sailing club, rm 204 engineering building 
--meeting, college republican club, republican party candidates for u.s. house of representatives from south bend district, Iafortune auditorium 
--meeting, notre dame photography club, rm 121 o'shaughnessy 
--meet your major, philosophy, lewis lounge 

--meet your major, speech and drama, washington hall 
--meet your major, sociology, rm 109 O'shaughnessy 
--meet your major, anthropology, rm 110 O'shaugh­nessy 
--american scene, "the psychology of religion" by paul pruyser, menninger foundation, carroll hall 
--meet your major, government, rm 107 o'shaugh­nessy 
--lecture, "cuban development strategy" by carmela mesa-lago, professor of economics, university of pittsburgh, graduate student lounge, Iafortune 
--modern language bicentennial symposium, "the foreign response to the american revolution" opening remarks by dr. konrad schaum, nd. "the impact of the american revolution on european diplomacy" by dr. stephen kertesz, nd. also "the first decade of austrian-american relations (1776­1786)" by consul general eduard adler, austrian consulate, chicago, and "the foreign response to the declaration of independence" by dr. klaus lanzinger, nd. library auditorium 
--film, "the devil is a woman," engineering auditorium 
10 pm  --lenten talk, "sin and a forgiving god," by fr. james t. burtchaell, farley hall chapel  
midnight  --album hour wsnd 640 am  
12·15 arn  --nocturne night flight, the best in progressive rock, jazz and blues, tonight's host torn paulius, wsnd  

88.9 fm 

Night Editor Hoganburger 
Ass't Night Editor: the Albu­querque kid 
Layout Staff: Jojangles, Mad­
ame LaZonga, Student Kane Day Editor Marianne should­she 
Copy Readers Reimer-Rhym­er, Cathy (as in Casey) Nolan, Barb Rrighterstar 
Editorials The Hat (he didn't wear it), assisted by Huli-Huli the Headline Fixer 
Features: Dom Salami Sports: Earl Monroe, Pablo Fiasco, Howard Cosell, Tom 
p 
Ad layout: Sally and Torn Dentz 
Typists: Nelville, Gyrn Com­myrninium, Vallerina Blurbles 
Compugraphic: the defunct Albert 
late Night Guests: O'Neil, Bangs and the Oz cast 
\ight Controller: David.Fe02J·

~+.·.-.. 



Two sites open for Sr. formal 
The controversy over the time and place of the Senior Class Formal has led the Senior Formal Committee to submit two alternate proposals for approval by the senior class. The two possible sites are the Studebaker Mansion and the Ramada Inn in Roseland. 
The committee listed favorable and unfavorable aspects of each site. Aspects favoring the Stude­baker Mansion are: 
--the formal could be held on 

Parents weekend coming to SMC 
by Lisa Morel Staff Reporter 

The St. Mary's College soph­omore class is preparing final plans for Sophomore Parent Weekend, to be held April 2, 3 and 4. 
The weekend, under the direc­tion of co-chairwomen Mary Ester Hall and Ann Plamondon, will begin with registration Friday in Holy Cross lobby from 2-6 p.m. for all parents and their daughters. A cocktail party and dance will be held from 9 p.m. to 1 a.m. at the Indiana Club for the parents, daughter and date. Music will be orovided by the Rhythm Kings. 
Saturday will begin with-late registration at 11 p.m. to I a.m. for parents who will not arrive until then. A welcome speech will be given by Dr. Duggan, St. Mary's 
president,  in  Carroll  Hall  at  1  
p.m.  and  immediately  following  
will be an  Academic Open House  

until 2:30 p.m. Activities will resume at 5 p.m. with a wine and cheese banquet to be held in Regina North Lobby. A dinner banquet will be held at 7 
p.m. in the dining hall with the featured guest speaker. Sr. Raphaelita, St. Mary's Admission Consultant. 
Mass will be celebrated Sunday at Church of Loretta at 10 a.m. to conclude the weekend. 
The cost for the entire weekend for both parent5 and daughter will be "ti 17, t.ny additional person atttnding the dinner will be charged $7. The dance cost for a sophcmore and her date, without parents will be $5. 
''All in all. everything is going well. I'm looking forv..ard to a great weekend for all," commented Tilerese Chin, sophomore class president. 
The Observer is published Mlnday through Friday and V>Eekly during the sull111el' session, except during the exams and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of the Univ. of Notre Dan-e and St. Ma-y's College. Subscriptions may be purchased tor $18 ($10 per semester) fro'Tl The Observer, Box Q, Notre Dan-e, Indiana 46556. Second Class postage paid, Notre Dan-e, IN 4655~. 

Saturday night, May 8, rather than the following Monday at the Rama­da Inn; --the unique atmosphere of the Victorian mansion setting; --a prime rib buffet dinner; --two bands. .,. Negative aspects of this site are: --fragmentation of the group because there are no large rooms; --the building can accommodate approximately 160 couples; --high liability risks due to irreplaceable historical fixtures; --volunteer help will be needed; --a cost of $12 per couple for the dance and $26 per couple for the dance and dinner. Favorable aspects of the Ramada Inn are: --it will accommodate a larger crowd comfortably; 
--a large, unified dance floor; 
--a sit-down dinner of New York 
strip steak; --an open bar option is available; --a cost of $8 per coup.le for the dance and $23 per coupre for the dinner and the dance. Negative aspects of the Ramada Inn are: --the Monday night date, May 10, which might conflict with finals; --an elegant but banquet-room atmosphere. A poll on the sites will be taken beginning tonight at the Senior Bar and continued on Thursday at lunch and dinner at the Huddle during lunch. Members of the committee will be available to answer any questions. Questions may also be addressed to the senior class officers or Jim Landsberg (1216) or Rich Johnson (8392). The committee urged all interested seniors to voice their opinion. 

Pipes 


Papers 
Etc. 
newstond and general store 113 w. monroe st. 
'\ot~>OOf'G":;;~""""'-·c-.r:;QO."'>(~.r..r...e~ 
• Come to the 
• 
• MEET YOUR •
• 

• MAJOR PROGRAM • • • FOR • • • 
• 

• :SOCIOLOGY MAJORS •
• 
: AND •
• :ANTHROPOLOGY MAJORS: 
• Wed. ,Mar. 24, 7:30 p.m. • O'Shag. 109 S 110 • 

with MONTROSE and SKYHOOKS 

Sunday March 28 ACC 
Tickets on sale at ACC and Student Union 



3 






Mardi Gras chalks up record profits 
by Matt Kane Staff Reporter 

The 1976 Mardi Gras Committee released its financial report yester­day showing the greatest profit in Mardi Gras history. Tho•. final !igurc, $28,401.53, surpassed the record of $22.118.13 set in 1968 and last year's total of $22,029. 
Financial Director John Hedges said, ''This year's results indicate a sharply increased profit ratio, as well as an outstanding improve­ment in total profit." 
Hedges was surprised by the succes·s of this year's Mardi Gras because of the decrease in atten­dance. "Because attendance was 
down  from  previous  years  I  was  
worried."  he  said,  "yet  we  still  
came out ahead."  

Administration rejects HPC plans 
by Matt Kane rectors did not believe students 
Staff Reporter could control the parties. The 
rectors feared the excess drinking 

The Student Affairs Office last that would result would lead to the night rejected the HPC recom­destruction of property and the mendation to usc "common injury of persons. rooms" in the halls for private Paczesny regretted that students parties serving alcoholic bever­had to go off campus for social ages. Ina two page letter, Br. Just events and risk drunken driving. Paczcsny restated the University However he noted that students alcohol policy and listed reasons, placing responsibility for their safe­backed up by a confidential survey ty on the University was "reverse of hall rectors. why the HPC paternalism." He voiced hope the proposals were not accepted. HPC would make further sugges­
The letter stated that size of the tions to imporve campus life. party and the amount of alcohol The HPC also unanimously ap­served were the major reasons why proved a new constitution. The 
Senior awarded fellowship from Science Foundation 
b.' Brigid Rafferty Staff Rt•porter 

Steve l'aspck, a Sl'nior chemical engineering major. has been awar­ded a fellowship for future study by thl' National Science Foundation. in recognition of his accomplishment in the licld of heterogeneous recvclcd catalvsis. 
·:What I have (ksigned," cx­plainl'd l'aspck. ""is a reactor .,imilar to 1he one in a I976 car whirh converts carbon monoxide to carbon dioxide. Mine docs it nlllrL' rapid!~· and dlicicntl~· than the ni.,ting one. lwwL'\'l'r. It uses onlv 10-20 grams of e<ttal~·st. while th~· othcr., uw 2-h pounds." 
"It worko., on the principle of running the exhauq through the ..anw platinumcatal~·st a ntllllhcr of tilllL's in.,tead of onlv once. for a more compll'tl' rcaL·t.ion." Paspck ..rated. lk added. ""This is also a good ac;tdcmic tool useful in the study of kinetics and reaction rate<,." 
Aftct devoting over three years to thi'> project. Paspck has already reached partial fullillment of his master's degree requirements. "My reactor began with a mathe­matical model developed by Dr. .James J. Carbcrrv of the Chemical Engineering Department," he con­tinued. 
Bull Moose Party set for Saturday 
"The Bull Moose Party" will take place this Saturday night at the Elkhart Electric Circuit from 8 
p.m. to I p.m. The party is being organized by Flanncr Hall, Mich­elle .Jaworski of the Lemans Hall Social Commission and Molly Me Kenna of the St. Mary's Social Commission. 
The party will be run similar to an Armory Party with tickets costing $3 each. 
All persons attending the party will he required to ride buses which will leave fron the Library circle. 
The hall in whieh the party will be held is a remodelled past office which features black lights, a mirror hall and a kaleidoscope. 
Tickets will be on sale in the Flanner lobby and at St. Mary's halls from 5 p.m. to 6:30p.m. Wedu~sdily'. thro•wh f.ri..1·.., this 
~ ............. --.: -~ 
\VPfl' k, 
'------------·-­
Hedges sighted tight financial when we were up late counting, control and co-operation from the was accounted for." 
other committee members and the booths as the ultimate reason for Mardi Grass '76 success. 
"Last year's Financial Director did practically the whole thing himself." Hedges explained. "I don't think anyone can do this job without spreading himself too thin. So I made Andy Gardner my assistant with authority to sign receipts and organize deposits. I also has another assistant oversee­ing admissions and concessions lind organizing cashiers." 


"We also kept all revenues and Hedges said the committee cut expenses properly segregated so expenses in construction $7,082.88, obvious discrepancies could easily and in security. The small crowds be spotted. Even small expenses actually · saved the committee like buying pizza for the committee $1,000 because fewer security per­
·'Under his guidance I construc­ted ;a working model of it," Paspek said. "There were a large number of pro:1Jems to overcome along the way, hll every time one was solved, i~ was a gain in experience. An engineer is predominantly a problem-solver.'' 
As an undergraduate, Paspck has taught freshman chemistry for three years, assisted in the writing of three chemistry and engineering textbooks, and published several articles on catalysis in scientific jomnals. In iHidition to his contributions here, he worked with Standard Oil of Ohio during the summer on development of a new catal:.·st for the ~crylonitrilc pro­cess--the basis for ;:II acrvlics. 
Awarded to onlv so· of 5000 applicants, the gr.ant from the National Science Foundation was based in part on past academic achievement, overall GPA. perfor­mance on GRE's and extra academ­ic science contributions. 



~-------:-7-­

. =-------------,
: : presents I
I • • I
I I
I THE DEVIL IS A WOMAN I 
II II 
TONIGHT 8 & 10 P.M. I ENGINEERING AUDITORIUM I I ADMISSION $1.00 I 



L-------------------------~
f-WHYPAYSO.ONCAMroS?l 
f ALL CIGARETTES 38 4 PACt\+ TAX f f CARTONS 85 mm $3.49 plus tax t t CARTONS 100 mm $3.59 plus tax t f WE ALSO CARRY THE FOLLOWING f f HARD TO FIND SMOKES t 
f f
Gautoises Caporal $.60 pack A Lil Corona Whiffs $1.15 pack 
t 

' Baikal Sobraine $.95 pack
t t
Getain Fitters $ .60 pack 
t MAR MAIN PHAiiV\ACV , 
f 426 N. MICHIGAN t L .. iN~xt t_Q McDonald's) ·,234 -·3-1-84 ·..j·:

·. 
··-·' · · A'gent ..-., · · ·. · 

-----------~ .....--­
----------------------------~ 

constitution was the first order of business and was approved quick­ly. A last-minute amendment was adopted charging the Executive Coordinator with overseeing An Tostal funds. 
The constitution was written primarily to give the HPC more continuity from year to year to eliminate confusion over its pur­pose and procedures. 
The constitution now goes to each hall for final approval. 
In other business the HPC organized two committees to write surveys. One survey will canvass student opinion of the Observer. The other survey is to see if students favor allowing off campus students to play in their former hall's interhall teams. 
The HPC also agreed to elect a sophomore and non-member to its SLC seat. Student Body President Ed Byrne urged the council to elect a sophomore who would serve a two year term to give the student representation on the SLC more continuity. The HPC is now accepting applications from any sophomore of freshman interested in serving on the SLC as the HPC representative. 
HPC Chairman Elton Johnson announced that April is the dead­line for hall to take the rest of their allotment out of the Student Body Treasury. After this date the remaining amount will be pooled in a general fund and the council will then redistribute the money. 
A spokeswoman for the SLC came to urge the HPC members to start hall fellows programs in their halls. A hall fellow is a faculty member who attends hall social activities. The purpose of having a hall fellow is to increase faculty and student contact. 
sonnel were needed. One expense the Mardi Gras committee will not have to worry
"The committee really apprecia­about is the first prize of this year'sted all the volunteers who stayed raffle. The winner of the 1976late and counted money and others Chevrolet Nova, worth aroundwho complied with our seemingly $3,000, still cannot be contacted by

trivial requests," Hedges said. 

the committee. Raffle Director
"They made a very difficult job Peggy Foran is consulting Legal

bearable." 

Services to see how long the 
Mardi Gras took in $5,486.75 committee is liable to Mr. Floyd--if from admissions, $9,283.43 from he happens to claim the car. the raffle, $1.028.76 from conces­Meanwhile, the committee has sions and. $12.602.59 from the donated the value of the car to 
carnival, after expenses. charity. 


E&L Supermarket opens: takes over old A&P store 
by David Beno Staff Reporter 
The E&L Supermarket, on the corner of Howard and Eddy streets, opened for business Monday. The E&L replaces the A&P store which previously occupied the same build -ing and which closed Jan. 17 due to lack of business. 
Earl Kemper and Lee McKnight. owners of the store, hope to attract 
N.D. students by honoring person­al checks when presented with the proper identification and by cash· ing checks. Kemper noted the good checking record of N.D. students in the past. 
A past District Supervisor of 


ATTENTION: 
FRESHMAN AND SOPHOMORES INTERESTED IN A PHILOSOPHY MAJOR OR DOUBLE MAJOR ARE INVITED TO: 
PHILOSOPHY MEET YOUR MAJORS, WEDNESDAY MARCH 24, LEWIS HALL LOUNGE 7:00P.M. 
REFRESHMENTS Will BE SERVED. 
Tom McMahon General Agent 

~\' ..,_.. 
.!I.. '' i' .. 
Manny /wila Agent 

,'" 
Karen Wentland Agent 
Diane Long 
••.1. '." ••••• ' 

A&P stores ;n this area, Kemper commented, "We hope to serve the community differently than the A&P did. We also intend to stress better enforcement of our pdit'ies. 
There  will  be  no  toleration  of  
vandalism.  shoplifting,  or  
violence," he said.  

Kemper emphasized that E&L will not tolerate troublemakers and will prosecute and refuse service to offenders. 
Kemper also noted that the A..li P had had good relations with N.D. students for quite a while, but an era of poor A&P managers wors­ened the relationship. Kemper hopes for good interaction once again. 
I
'll·araftl'r n•ar. ~ I semester 'aftl'r semester. tlw 
('olll·~eMaster 
from Fidl'lih l'nion I jf(.• lias hl'l'll tIll' llh•st al·n•pted. most popular plan on campusl's all ( ., erAmerica. 
Find out \\In. 
Call thl· Fidl'lity llnion Collt.·~l.·l\11 ash.'r ril'ld Assol'iate m~our arl'a: 



*T~d.Q!?.~~rver
Founded November 3, 1966 

The Observer IS published by students of the University of Notre Dame and EDITORIAL BOARD St. Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the pol1c1es of e1ther Thomas O'Neil 
Editor-In-Chief 

institut1on The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Dan Sanchez Managing Editor
Editorials represent the opinion or a majority ot the E:dltortal Board. 
E xecut 1ve Editor Con,mentartes are the views of individual editors Op1n10ns, cartoons an.d .Cregg Bangs Val Zurblis Executive Editorregular columns express the views of their authors. CoIumn space IS f Editorial Editor dva tlable to all members of the community, and letters are encouraged to Pat Hani in Bob Mader Executive News Editor pn,mote the free express1on of varying opinions on campus. Maureen Flynn 

Campus Editor Marti Hogan St. Mary's Editor Don Re1mer Cory Editor
Ed;torials 283-1715
NP\\ s 28\-8661 Business 283-7471 Tim o·Reiley Features Editor f-red Herbst Sports Editor 

Advertistng Manager Tom WhPian Mary Egan Contributing EditorTorn Modglin 
Wednesday, March 24, 1976 


P.O. Box Q 
DOONESBURY by Garry Trudeau 
''FOI< 7HES& ANO MANY
"..ANO AN INS&N51TIVITY 
..AT THE H/6Hl:3T L.EVE/.5 
OTIIER !<£AS(JNS. I F&£1­
I HAV/3 BlffONE CHO!C&­
OF 60VeRNMENT W THE 
~ NE3&05 ANO R/61175 OF 
I HAVE OEC/{)80 7V 


policies made by this University anu apartments must be consider­and begin to re-think my convic­opinion~~~~~~~~~that are unreasonable and ridicu­·d. It is too bad so much of our poli tions.

lous. My latest experience, which cy making must be based on pure The sledgehammer was deliv­occurred Sunday night, involved economic basis, but then, if it

arriving at the security gate at 8:45 ered in the person of two friends Abortion:
must, shouldn't it remain consis­
p.m., and being denied entrance on who shared with me the knowledge campus. Normally I would not mind tent? of their love for each other they.St. Mary's has a high standard
being denied this request. but incidentally. happened to be two Properly Legal 
academically; time should not have
when I have four bags of luggage. women. Yet their sexuality. their 
to be wasted on these trifling
and having only two (sort of strong) expression of themselves. and their 
affairs (parietals, return of male 
concern and care for each other is a

female arms. I still found my iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiipau/ herbig
J.D.'s, parking lot controversies,
predicament physically impossible model any Christian marriage
etc.). Maybe if student concerns Most controversies in America have started from an emotional
in transporting my luggage to the could follow. Suddenlv all the 
were taken more into consider­basis: the slave issue. woman's vote, temperance. civil rights. to
dorm. stereotypes became ste-rile all 
ation, we wouldn't have these name just a few. The emotions allow the movement to get started.
I was told by the security guard the neurotic labels reflected back 
worries. Let's not let our academia But the solutions to these problems were not found emotionally but
on their users and what was left
that unless it was a medical 

get lost in the shuffle. in the head. in logic. Solutions come not from the heart but from the 
emergency, (in which case it might were two people truely and deeply
Remember S.M.C., the students mind. Similarly the latest controversy abortion has recently been
in love with expereince. And the
very well have been if I had 

of today are going to be the the subject of much emotionalism. But decision must be made on
sigr.ificance no longer rested with supporting and contributing (?) the logic level and arguments must be head-centered. not
attempted the feat), that I could not the person to whom one's sexualityalumni of tomorrow. heart-centered.
get on campus because it was Fr. was directed but rather on the Many emotions have been raised at the religious level. Even
Burtchaell's law. 

quality of the bond and the Peggy Moore though your religion leads you to believe that abortion is a mortalI would. therefore. like to sug­
expressions which grew out of that
gest a less absurd policy to sin. it is not acceptable to impose one's religious views on the totalbond.

counteract Fr. Burtchaell's inflex­

populace. The Amish believe that motor Jehicles do not ha\'e a
ible policy. Fr. Burtchaell's tele­As a religious educator and coun­place in one's society. The do not attempt to prohibit cars on the

ND: Drop

phone number should be given to selor. it hurts to speak with many national level. What the Amish do is refuse to use motor vehicles. 
every girl on campus so that when true Christians who feel driven They do not criticize others for using the vehicles. they themselvesshe arrives on campus with lug­the Masks from their Church and judged by do not use them. Similarly Jews have Sabbath on Saturday andgage on any given night, and is men for what they have come to work on that day is not encouraged in a traditional home. Like the
denied a fifteen minute pass, she know as 'themselves.· Too long Amish. they do not attempt to impose their standards on the rest of
may call Fr. Burtchaell (since he has our time considered homosex­
Dear Editor: the populace. Each religion should be respected for the beliefs they 
lives so close to the circle, anyway), uals as the "prostiture" of Christ's
The appearance of the interview. have. But the separation of church and state has two edges.
and have him come help her carry age and picked up stones to cast. I
"Conversation with a Campus Ho­The pro-life forces say the the fetus is living and should be
her luggage. have no solutions to offer to the
mosexual". hopefully signals a credited with all the rights a person has. Aborting a fetus is the
institutional church for what pro­
Kathy Mercer new era in the discussion of same as killing a person. The question then arises: if the mother's
mises to be the most explosive of
sexuality at Notre Dame. For a health is in danger then who should we let die? A young woman
questions to handle.
young alumnus, the interview was with twenty plus years of life behind her or a not yet born
However. I believe in the truth of
a sign that perhaps some at the fetus--which?
The Spirit; and an
Juniors school are ready to set aside the given atmos­Abortion is used mainly by unmarried women or by women who
phere of calm reflection. a willing­
masks and begin the process do not wish to have a child. Anti-abortionists should keep these 
ness to listen, and prayer. Notre
Beware! toward true "metanoia" -change questions in mind: who has to bear the child for nine months? Who
Dame can become a beginning
of heart. has to go through painful labor to give birth? Who has to (at least in 
point in the needed dialogue be­
Dear Editor: In the two years since departing the majority of homes) care for and raise the child practically alone? 
tween the homosexual and the 
Junior~ beware! Beware of those N.D .. during which I have received What if the mother is unmarried? Sure she could put the baby up
Christian community. As an
little pink cards you must sign at a master's degree in counseling for adoption. But she still has to carry the child for nine months and
alumnus. I want to thank Cliff for
the beginning of the year. Beware and become a parish director of then have labor and afterwards comes the question, too often asked, 
what he openly shared and the
of the school's off campus policy. If religious education, the hardest "Where is my baby?" This can be as psychologically troublesome
potential for growth he has offered 
you want to live off campus next personal struggle has been in as abortion. if not more so. because of its duration. I she has to be
the Notre Dame Family. I pray the 
vear. decide now; don't wait for the re-evaluating the view of sexuality I the one to carry the child. shouldn't she be the one to decide wh
phrase "Notre Dame Family" will
departed with from Notre Dame.
second semester blahs to get off. ether or not she should? 
not ring hollow in our treatment
Be sure and be informed of the Rarely did I see people comfort­Most of the women wishing abortions are unmarried. To these
of any individual.
policy -S.M.C. has the "right" to able with themselves -sexually or Puritans who say. "Now she must pay the piper". isn't the penalty make vou stay on campus (horrors) otherwise. severe? Because she had sex, if only once, now she has to pay the
Alexander Shaia 

penalty. If that is so then shouldn't it apply to marriage? If a couple marries. shouldn't they be forced to live together forever? Divorce. of course. is the solution there, but shouldn't the same logic apply to prohibit it? 
Emotion is fine. But one must consider the results of his actions. The temperance movement was based upon a belief that sounded true. But its proponents failed to note that it was unacceptable to most people. If aboriton is indeed outlawed what would be the consequences? Would this stop women from getting abortions? Abortion has been legalized only in the last few years but in the time when it was not legal. it still did take place. And it still sould if it were banned again. But instead of being done in clean hospital rooms with nearly 1002 safety, abortions would be done in dirty back rooms with rusty scalpels by illiterate personnel. As it is now. abortions are safe and a matter of choice, not a matter of requirement. If outlawed, the only result would be much misery and death. 
It is therefore my view that abortion should be legalized. Those whose personal beliefs or religion are against th is practice will not be criticized for not participating. But similarly one person's moral values can not be imposed upon another. 
Abortion is an issue that splits this nation today. It is a moral issue. Therefore it should not be restrained. Rather, it should be up to the individual whether or not she wishes to use it. No one would be forced to go through the process. but it would be there if a woman wishes to use it. After all, she has to carry the child. The
'SoRRY, GEORGE!' 

final decision· should be b.ers. . . , ..,. ,., , . , ..·_,, .. "· 
Burtchaell 
second semester if they cannot find In leaving N.D.. I was well some new incoming students to fill prepared to meet and tackle many your beds. endeavors yet lacked significant Fine, but also be sure to find out growth in what many theorists about all th ose little inconsisten­consider the basic development
as Porter cies like: no priority lists, although task of our age group -coming to some are allowed off and some are terms with one's own sexuality. not, (pretty cute trick), and the Needless to say some jolts awaited 
Dear Editor: 

1ateness of the decision making, me in the "real" world. However,
I'm writing this editorial to point 

which makes for a difficult situation it took a sledgehammer in the gut
nut once again that there are 

when the renting of your houses for me to stop, listen to the jolts, 





the horror of a national disaster 

sharon garvey 

The following, true account was written by Sharon H. Garvey, a Notre Dame student on leave or absence, who has been Jiving with her sister and brother-in-law in Guatemala City £or the past two months. 
The earth is so very gentle today. The sky could not he bluer. the sun brighter, the breeze softer. Never have I felt sr vulnerable and insignilil·ant. Twelve hour~ ago. in the middle of the night, this peaceful planet bel'amc a raging tyrant who~c wrath was a!> fearful as it wa!> unpredictable. Twelvl' hours ago we groped our way through a pitch black house, frantically clutching hahics. blankets and tlashlights. Even now that the tyrant "s fury is contained, the ~hock of hb recent outburst scn~s great ~budders throu~h his frame, and the lovely garden in which I am seated trembles continuou!>IY. 
llccau!>e i wa~ unusually tired last night, l didn't stay up to write and read as is m: custom. I went to bed at 2:00a.m. and fell into a deep sleep. Suddenly, the house inspired some demonic essence and plunged into agonized paroxysms. The shakmg was so violent that it seemed more like the thrashings of a tormented animal. A h~g<. rumbling roar. augmented by the smashm& of china and the cracking of walls. cithci" tilled the world or was localized in the center of mll'"s head. Mv mother said later that she grabbed my arni; I didn't feel it. .. ! ~on't remember it. I became aware of her voice, a long way off. ~creaming. "Shan~~l, it's an 
carth4uakc! It s an carth4uakc!! 
I lav on my stomach in bed and did ro< nwvc:-not because I was paralyzed wil11 f'eur. hut rather. because the roar in my ca .; wu., so loud und the convulsions of the bed~ 1 cxaggerutcd that it did not even occur to 111~ that t•scupe was !>till a possibility. One vivid imuge immediatl"l_,. flashed before ~~~· mind's t•ve: I saw the hcavv concrete ceiling nark do~' n the center and ~·ollapse on top of us. Mv vision t•ven extended to sec the dear. ~iarlit !>k\" bevond. Indeed. it sounded as if the ceiling wc.re already splitting. The hour of death was upon us--upon me. 
I uttered a 4uit·k and desperate prayer for forgi\Tnc.s~ and sulvation and hoped thut t"ll' crushing weight would kill instantly. wotdd not be too painfui. .. S. perhaps 10 In:1rc st·,·ornls of terror. and the inevitable did not happt·rL ln~tead. the tremor subsided. the LTiling held. and I heard Hector in the hallwuv. wiling to u~ all to leave the house and get iii to the car. Ijumped out of bed ~nd stumbled aLTo!>~ to the door. I instim·ti\l"ly llipped the light swi!l"h. hut nothing happen-L"d. Kathll'en'o, terrified voice was echoing Ikt·tor's repeated warnings that another 4uakc would probahl:--: follow within ~cconds and would he stronger than the hrst--wc must get out of the house immediately! I felt around on the lloor for my shoes and grabbed my bathrobe off the bed. My motlwr called out tome. I couldn't sec hcr--1 couldn"t sec anyhthing. 
th !>oon as the 4uakc had begun, all the electril"itv in the city had automatically switched. off (a precaution to prevent fires from broken electric lines). Without strel·tlamps or moon we were left in almost total darkness. I pawed the air scarchibng for my mother's hand. "Say something again:· I can't find you in the darkness!" I finally found her hand and virtually dragged her down the hallway. Later I discovered 1 hat she had been hanging back in an effort to locate Kathleen. Since my feet were bare (I had not taken the time to put on shoes or bathrobe yet) it was fortunate that the huge gtass window thitt borders part of the hall had not shattered. 
Mother and 1 made it as far as the kitchen door without mishap. There stood Hector. holding Jessica. He thrust the baby into my arms and headed hack to help Kathleen with Lisa. Meanwhile. Mother and I hurried out to the car where I shivcringly asked her to 
~ccaoooaooooocaoacoc~oocaoaccccccccccocc~ccocooc~~=coococcaaa 
Dear Abbey's fifth cousin has come to the Obs~rver 
Send your letters to: 


Dear Clytemnestyra P.O.Box Q 
hold the baby so that i might put on my shoes and robe. Usually, Jessica will start screaming if awakened in the middle of the night, but during our mad exit and. for almost an hour afterward, she was as still as death. 
When at last Kathleen and Hector emerged from the house with Lisa, we all piled into the little Volkswagen and Hector backed it out into the street. To Kathleen's horror. Hector decided to go back into the house. On the way out, he had noticed that a large bottle of vc~y potent poison (used for ridding plants of certain insects) had been ~mashed on the floor near the kitchen. Its toxic fumes were spreading to all the rooms in the house. Hector took a flashlight, donned a gasmask and reentered the black house which the dim starlight did not penetrate. We strained to sec the ~low_ of his flashlight through some shrubbc j which blocked our view of the doorway. Minutes (1asscd...the car began to tremble, Kathleen 
'The shaking was so violent that it seemed like the thrashings of a tormented anima!' 
shrieked and h-:-ctor ran out ,,t t;le house. When the immediate danger was over he returned to his noxious task. One tremor followed upon another and each movement sent Hector running. Kathleen became increasingly concerned for his safety. More than half an hour later he tinally locked up the house and joined us in the car. We drove over •o his ·parents' home and found everyone safe. Their house had withstood the (tuakc even better than Kathlt:cn and 
Hedor's. We returned to our house and parked the car in front. The babic_s. very wet both of them. were bundled up 111 ass,•rtcd blankets hastily grabbed off beds. In the car wt· sat huddled together for the next hour or two, nervously but quietly awaiting the first light of dawn. 
The warm ravs of the sun renewed our courage. We. opened the house. and hurricdlv collected Mother's bclongmgs-­she h;rd·a plane ticket to Washington. D.C. at II :00 that vcrv same morning. Although fainter. the odm.-of the poison still pcrmcat­eel the house. Some furniture had slid or f;rllcn. much sculpture and pottery had broken. the hall sported a small lake of baby oil in front of the linen closet and the kitl"hcn was in a shambles . Sliding and rolling plates and glasses h_ad_ burst .tllro~gh cupboard doors and hall of Kathleen s ch111a, including an antique piece of crystal ware. Jay shattered on the floor--which was also c<;atcd with water and strawberry jam. Part of a decorative brick dividing wail between this house and the next. had crumbled down on the narmw stairway leading to the roof terrace. 
(the following written on Feb. 14. 1976) 
The next several nights were -pent in the garden of Hector Senior's home. Other relatives gathered there as well. Cots. mattresses, blankets and makeshift tents decorated the lawn. Electricity was restored to our neighborhood late Wednesday night (Feb. 4th) and the water began to dribble hack the following day. but some parts of the city arc still suffering from the absence of one or both of those valuable commodities. 
Under t'ormal circumstances the water supply for Guatemala City is insufficient. . Cor~SC4l1Cnt~y. the .water is turned off entirely dunng ccr~am. hours of the day. In our area we arc lett Without water between 
the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 4:30 a.m. In some of the poorest districts the people do not receive water until very late at night. With buckets in hand, they must wait in long lines to benefit from the one. public, communal spigot. At the best of times the pressure is so low that you cannot expect to usc water simultaneously from two different sources in your home. If one person is already washing the dishes. another cannot take a shower; if the lawn is being watered. the washing machine cannot be run. Fortunately. a huge waterworks project is currf"ntlv under wav to remedy this situation in the ·future. Now, of course, in the aftermath of this national disaster, water has become more precious than gold. 
During the first couple days following the earthquake. over 400 seismic movements were recorded. Although none of the subsequent tremors could even be compared to the destructive force of the original quak•· 
their tre4ueucy u1 recurrence and the general dread of another seismological catastrophe have set everyone's nerves on edge. The number of tremors diminishes, and vet. each movement recalls that first night of terror. The sudden and repeated creaking of the house and rattling of windows have become a sickening. taunting ritual. Some people arc still sleeping outside for fear that a second 4uakc will be produced b~· the dis4uictcd earth; many, many more arc camped in yards. streets and empty lots because thcv have no homes to return to. 
The cpic~ntcr was located about 80 kilometers from the capital and registered at 
7.2 degrees of intensity--5.6 in Guatemala City. The 4uakc was so extensive that it drasticallv affected the entire country, and even bcyZmd. Possibly 20.000 arc dc~d and many tZm·ns were co;nplctcly razed. The capital suffered severe oamage in certain areas (mostly downtown). but the greater portion of th~ city remained intact. Some of the oldest and most beautiful churches were destroyed. As might be expected: thieves have been taking advantage of damaged and unprotected homes. The police have !hrcatcncd to shoot such lawbreakers on sight! In some cases the robbers have even assembled into armed gangs, and many neighborhoods have organizcrl their own patrols (in a program apparently under the direction of the army) to protect property. 
Five davs after the earth4uakc. Hector iccidcd to start spending the .lights in his 


a peculiar mouie 
The Devil Is a Woman is a peculiar name for a movie. Indeed, it is a peculiar movie for it rejects any attempt to classify it as comedy or tragedy, parody or reality. 
The audience reaction last night would seem to point to comedy. The film essentially tells the story of the evil and cmelty of one woman. but it is an evil that is at the same time irrepressible and irresistible, attracting and repelling men, often destroying them. It cannot be taken too seriously, nor can it be ignored. Last night's audience laughed at the cruelty of Concha Perez, perhaps because they could not believe its excesses, perhaps because they didn't want to. 
If for no other reason, the movie is 
interestingbecause it provides an opportu­nity for Marlene Dietrich to play her favorite and most famous role, the callous, hP-artbreaking bitch with just a hint of vulnerability that is never really exploited. She doesn't take herself quite as seriously as she did in The Blue Angel, and well she shouldn't. But she can still be as devastating with a frown as with a smile, she can still tease the noblest of men as she flings her shawl over her shoulder, an_d she can still throw her head back and deliver a contemptuous laugh that would make the most honest heart sink. 
The film is set in turn-of-the-century Spain during the carnival week.. There is something mysteriously appropnate about the carnival atmosphere and the grotesque masks. but there is also an unsettling 

own home once again. in order to guard 
against thieves and vandals. Kathleen 
thought it best to remain with the babies in 
her in-laws' vard. Certain that Hector would 
have been very nervous having to stay alone 
in the house--especially after his younger 
brother came back with rumors about an 
armed gang of robbers in the immediate 
neighborhood--I offered to keep him 
company. We set u p a matress in the living 
room right next to the front door. and Hector 
slept with a borrowed shotgun beside him. 
Both of us were extreme!\ tense and tromor~ 
woke Hector several tim~~ during the night. 
Having stayed up to write, I retired some 
three hours after my brother-in-law and 
barely slept at all. · 
I lav on the couch staring at a pair of 
hangii.lg lamps. afraid to sec them start 
swaying. I l"l"avcd the calm and oblivion ol 
sleep. but the very drowsinc~s tb:•. 
promised to release me from fear was a 
curse in itself; for I felt compelled to remain 
wakeful and watchful--against what I was 
not sure. This double terror could not be 
dealt with or explained. As often and <t\ 
soon as I began to dose I would rcaw a ken 
with a start. panicstricken with m~· own lack 
of vigilance in the face of a terrible hut 
faceless threat. Whv did the house seem to 
pose such a threat? The complex and 
exaggerated nature of my fear (also experi­
enced to varying degrees by both Kathleen 
and Hector) could not be explained in term~ 
of the daily dread. shared by all, of anothci 
d~structivc earth4uakc; nor could it bt 
at1 ributcd to anxiety about thieves. 
The house itself elicited the fear--particul 
arly after nightfall. I could have slept in 
another house with reasonably easy mind. 
After all. we were taking precautions: 
Making our beds ncar an exit, sleeping with 
our clothes on and leaving the door unlocked 
to prevent its jamming with the sudei 
torsion. 

A like ordeal the following night tinall· gavl' rise to an explanation. I realized tha when . in the second paragraph of thi t.arrativc, I described the house as havin: ·"inspired some demonic essence," I was no merely flirting with poetic license. lntcllc< tuall:--· I accept that a huge piece of cart! shook violently because of internal upheaval hut on the 4th of February, at J:IS a.m.. wJs not aware of the mo~ement of half o Central America. 
Hector and I had slept in the house tw· nighb before Kathleen reluctantly agree• the bring lhe babies hack home. Now, clos· to two weeks after the carth4uakc we an still sleeping on mattrcs!>cs in the livin~ room. Scientist reassuring!~· conjecture tha the earth has spent itsc\l' and the peopl• of Gtwtcmala need not fear another outhur~ for at least SO years. Last night. however we were again startled from sleep by a stror tremor. I have seen entire towns reduced I< rubble and seas of powdery, adobe dust; have totalled death counts on sheets of whitL paper. It will take more than the calculatiow. of a scientist to make us forget, and whil< the tremors continue, we will keep vigil. 
dauid o'keeft 

group actors an( a German star in the Spanish setting. Nevertheless, there is the age-old romanth triangle, but it is a perversion of the form 
There is Pasqua!. the wealthy anc urbane bachelor whose military bearin~· betrays his background as an officer. H( has had his share of experiences with Concha Perez, and he imparts these experiences to his young friend Antonio by way of warning. "Be earcful," he cautions. 'That woman has ice where others have a heart." It is the central mystery of the movie, then, that everyone realizes the devastating cruelty of the woman, yet no one seems willing to fight it. 
And then there is Concha. She is as enigmatic as she is cruel and heartless, and she is a force so powerful that even she is incapable of controlling it. But if she and the other characters are caricatures and inspire laughter at times, they are like the caricatures in a political cartoon; regard­less of how funny they might often seem. there is always a strong underlying element of very sad truth. 
I 
l 
l 

I 
l l l l I 
• l I I I I l 


-------------~---~ -.--~ ~---------------,--------~-----­
6 the observer Wednesday, March 24, 1976 


Hesburgh calls for US approval of UN protocols 
by Observer News Staff with the feelings expressed by professor at Rutgers University, most in science's most sensitive University Provost Fr. James T. other conference speakers earlier followed Harding and called for a area, basic research." Cohen Burtchaell addressed himself to the The Notre Dame Bicentennial in the week. move away from universalism in noted that the National Science theme of the conference. "An Conference concluded Thursday America to particularism via medi­Foundation "has come increasingly Almost Chosen People: The Moral March 11 with an address by Fr. Puritan ideology ating structures: family, churches, under fire for the abstruse or even Aspirations of Americans." He Theodore Hesburgh, in which the neighborhoods and subcultures. seemingly ridiculous nature of noted that the United States had University president suggested the Dr. Sidney Ahlstrom, professor "Our time continues," he said, some of the projects it supports." been no more unfaithful to its 
U.S. commemorate the year by of American history and modern "to be viewed by some as an age of He blamed such criticism on spiritual ambitions than had the approving "the two United Nations religious history at Yale University, liberation; it increasingly appears, "general ignorance among our original chosen people, the Israel-Protocols which flowed from the was one of the more pessimistic in fact, as an age of spreading countrymen as to the nature of ites. , Declaration of Independence." speakers. Speaking Tuesday oppression and deepening mis­science itself, and in particular the "It is possible within a people for 
Hesburgh said that it would be March 9 on "The Religious Dimen­ery," he said. relation between advances in know-certain voices to become classic, for ·~a great and symbolic act" for this sion of American Aspirations," "America is one of the few ledge and the application of scienti-certain calls to be made repeated-country to officially approve the Ahlstrom said that the redeemer places left," Berger continued, "in fie knowledge to human affairs." ly," Burtchaell said. "Whatever 
U.N. statements guaranteeing uni­nation ideology of ~he early Puri­which there is at least a fighting Cohen also cited misunderstanding its founding ideals, no country will 
versal political and civil rights and tans, yoked with laissez-faire econ­chance for innovations and experi­about the equitable distribution of live up to them in history, yet its economic, social and cultural omics, led to an "economic ravag­ments within the framework of free public funds by states. voices--its aspirations--will contin­rights. He also called for an ing of the continent" which lasted institutions." ue and to condemn
At a special bicentennial liturgy to be heard American push for a United Na­into the 20th century. ' anew its infidelity.., tions High Commissioner of Hu" The Puritan belief in America as Imagination of power man Rights "to be the conscience a "redeemer nation, a God-direct­
Prof. Alfred Kazin, distinguish­
of the world in this most important ed providential kingdom" seemed 
ed professor of English in the City
and. today. highly violated area." to many to be supported by the The overall tone of Hesburgh's_ victory over Britain, Ahlstrom said. 
University of New York's Hunter College, discussed "Moral Aspira­
address was optimistic in contrast A secularized version of the Puritan tendency to see material on
tions in American Literature'' progress as evidence of spiritual Wednesday March 10. KazinND Seminarians election became part of American 
attributed the pessimism of mod­
•

ern America literature to the
life. he said.

to be ordained "savagely competitive, savagely lonely quality of life" in America.
Bicentennial and blacks 



J%Observer 
"Americans often have nothing in
Three students at Moreau Semi­

Dr. common but our own citizenship,"
nan. Notre Dame. will be ordained Tuesday afternoon Vincent to the deaconate on Saturday. 
Harding, Afro-American studies he said. March 27. at I:30 p.m. in Sacred professor at the University of The hope of modern American 
Pennsylvania, said he and many writers. Kazin said, "lies in their 

: Chess Tournament :
Heart Church. The ordaining 

prelate will be the Most Rev. other black Americans and non­ability to render for us the imagina­Edward W. O'Rourke. bishop of whites cannot celebrate the bicen­tion of power." This power, whether seen as nature or "some­
the diocese of Peoria. Ill. tennial year. 

''For us to enter the main­thing outside ourselves" was onceThose to be ordained for the 
Congregation of Holy Cross are streams of that self-promoting line "entirely on our side," he said. but : April 3rd&4th : of martyrs would be for us to now "plots against us" through
Donald G. Getters. C.S.C.. and become amnesiacs to the most our own destruction of the envir-

Kenneth M. Molinaro. C.S.C.. both of South Bend. 

cruel elements of our history in this onment. in the basement of LaFortune • land," Harding said. Dr. Bernard Cohen addressed
Kenneth E. Przvbvla of Peru, Ill. will be ordained for. the diocese of It would require, he continued, the conference Wednesday after­• Sign up in the Observer office (Jrd floor of LaFortune) • 
that non-white Americans blind noon on "Science, Technology and
Peoria. A reception honoring the new themselves to the bitter struggle American Goals." A professor of 
• Entry Fee $2.00 Prizes and trophies awarded •
deacons and their families will be that led •'to this limited stage of the history of science at Harvard held at Moreau Seminary following freedom in this bicentennial year." University, Cohen said that "to Harding concluded on an optimi­turn away from science is a selfish
the ordination. 

• I or mon• information call •
stic note, however, claiming that and morally disgraceful act that isDonaldGetters attended St. Mat­
thew's parochial school. James the black struggle has encouraged in essence to turn our backs on the 
lohn Nt>wconwr 272-1913 • \1onroe School. both in South 
other interest groups to speak out, needs of the future and coming Bend. Wawasee Prep. Syracuse. which could result in America generations of our fellow men." 
•
or Jim Stevens 8610 • 
Ind.. and Riley High School. South being remade by its people. He expressed concern that bud­Bend. before entering Holy Cross Prof. Peter Berger. sociology geting difficulties would "be felt Seminary. Notre Dame. as a junior n high school in I964. He went to 




r~~--..W<<'"-we;:rrsornec;rxmerrcB'S'' 
...,,,~"·'·'-~,~~·,~,1
lolv Cross Novitiate. Bennington. v't.. in 1967-68 and was graduated rom Notre Dame in I971. During 1971-73 he taught at 

I most imPPW:tant natural resources I
\Jotre Dame High School, Bridge­Hlrt. Conn.. and ha~ hcen o;tudying hcology at Notre Dame since 

jj\~ 1nto the ground. ~l~l 
·hen. He cxpech to receive a tla~IL'r's degree in theology from \,,liT Dame this May. 
Kenneth Molinarc attended St. Patrick·., parich grammar school. .•tHI Central High School. both in 'llluth Bend. hcforc joining the llulv Cross Fathers at St. Joseph Hall. Notre Dame. in 1966. 

He went to Holy Cross Novitiate. Hl·nnington. Vt. in 1968 and was C!raduatcd from Notre Dame in I'171. He taught at St. Catherine l.1hourc School. Glenview. Ill.. l'l-1-73 and hcgan studies at the \ational College of Education, h·anston. Ill.. where he expects to c•>lllplctc work this year for a ma'>ter's degree in school adminis­traticm and ~upcrvision. ·.·. ··•· 
He has studied theology at Notre :;:; :;:; 
·:.:~;~;~~~:~·:~ti~,S~'!;~:',;,·~ I 
I SEXspeaks~ ~ 

Dr. William Sexton. Associate Professor of Management. will present a lecture on the role of huo;incss in humanistic work this .tfternoon at 3:30 p.m. in the Graduate Business Auditorium in 1-laves-Healv Center. 
Sexton. ~·ho has been actively 
•nvolved in experiments in the 'vfichiana area aimed at the improv­·ment of the quality of work life, will discuss his research and the problems involved in programs of ''ork humanization. 
The lecture. which is open to the 

Highly trained, highly qualified, and highly dedicated missile officers in the Air Force. Getting down to the vital business of keeping America_alert. This is a specialized field available to a few very special men. 
You can prepare to enter this exciting field by enrolling in an Air Force ROTC program. Four-year, 3·year, or 2·year programs leading to a com· mission of an Air Force officer. There are scholarships available, plus $100 monthly allowances. And after college, an Air Force opportunity for a chal· lenging job and with paid-for graduate educational degrees. 
If you're the type of a guy who wants to plant your feet on a solid foun­dation, look into the Air Force ROTC programs and look ahead to becoming a missile launch officer in the Air Force. 
Get all the details ... no obligation, of course. 
Contact: Capt. M.L. Stockdale, Asst. Professor of Aerospace Studies, 283-6635 
public without charge. is part of a ~cries sponsored by the College of Business Administration on •'The 

I Put it all together in Air Force-ROTC. 
D~igll' ot: Humanistic Work:" 

~=~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:::::=:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::?.~::~:::?.~:~:;:=:•:=:::::::•:;:;:;:~~~:::?.;~:?.!:?.!:!:?.::~~===?.!!!=--~=~:::::?.::::::~!:!!!~:::::::::::?.!!!!!:?.!!!!::~:::::::::::::::: 


''Amnesty challenges loyalties'' 
Baskir speaks about Ford's Amnesty Board 
by Liz Merrell began by reviewing various theo­
Staff Reporter ries on President Ford's purpose 
for creating the board. One theory 

Lawrence M. Baskir, general suggests Ford created it in a counsel of the President's Amnesty political effort to resolve a major Board. spoke last night before an division in America that had arisen informal gathering in the library out of the conflict over amnesty. lounge on the policies and results Another theory that Baskir of the President's clemency pro­claims "has little or no merit gram. whatsoever" is that the program 
Sponsored by the Notre Dame was created to detract attention Center for Civil Rights, Mr. Baskir from the pardon granted to Richard 

Labor board disbanded; UFW plans boycotts 
The California legislature has Because of the UFW's success at voted down an appropiation for the the ballot box. trowers and Teams­California Agricultural Labor Rela­ters brought pressure on legislators tions Board. set up last year to to deny funds to the supervisory ovt·r~ee and certify farm workers' board. election' for union representation. Some UFW supporters arc hop­A~ a re~ult. the elections arc ing that Governor Jerry Brown will grinding to a halt. and supporters be able to persuade the legislators of the United Farm Workers arc to restore the budget cut of some $J planning to return to other tactics-­million. The ALRB. without funds 'trikc.~ and bo\'l:otts. to continue operations. is no longer 
So far the UFW has won 57 per accepting requests for elections or rent of the JJ9 election~; the handling new compoaints regar­Tcam~tcr' have won J6 per cent. ding unfair labor practices. 
Alumnus bequest endows philosophy professorship 
Bcquc~ts from the estates ot 
Emmet Walter and his wife, 
Alfreda. of Houston. Texas. will 
endow a professorship in philosop­
hv at the University of Notre Dame. 
it. ha., been announced by rev. 
Tht·odorc M. Hcsburgh. C.S.C, 
president of the University. 
A former editor of the Houston 
Chronidc, Walter died in 1966 and 
hb wift• last June. Provisions in 
their wills specified that the Emmet 
and Alfreda Walter Chair be cstab­
Ji.,hed in the Department of Philo­
sophy, where it is the second such 
endowed professorship. 
In making the announcement. 
Father Hesburgh emphasized the 
Univer.,ity's long-range goal of 
permanently endowing the 200 full 
professorships now existing in its 
teaching and research faculty. 
"The Walter Chair is the twen­
tieth endowed professorship we 
have announced since 1967," Notre 
Dame's president noted, "and 
such benefactions remain crucial to 
the academic future of the Univer­
sity." 
Walter entered Notre Dame as a 
freshman in 1911 and received 
bachelor's, master's and law de­
grees in a five-year period before 
establishing a law practice in 
Mount Carmel. Ill. He served as a 
second lieutenant with the 36th 
Division in France during World 
War I. was awarded the Croix de 
Gucrrc after action in the siege of 
Hhcims, and was a prisoner of the 
German army for six weeks before 
escaping and making his way to 
Paris. 
He joined the Houston Post editorial staff in 1919 and transfer­red to the Chronicle in 1922. He was named city editor in 1924, editor in 1948, and then served as corporate vice president, director and editor emeritus before his death. 
A confidante of Jesse H. Jones, owner of the Chronicle and advisor 
World Food Crisis set for discussion 
The World Food Crisis will be 
the topic of a panel discussion 
sponsored by the United Nations 
Assodation on Thursday, Apr. I at 
the First Unitarian Church in South 
Bend. 
Panelists will include Ronald E. 
Stcnning, national Director of the 
Christian Rural Overseas Program 
(CROP) and Wally J. Cahinc, 
trcasurerand general manager of th 
e Wyatt Grain Company. 
The program, which is open to 
the public, will include a discussion 
on the sources and processing of 
food, equalizing distribution and 
the effects on producers and consu­
mers in America, . • · to presidents. he spent a quarter of a century on the Houston Planning Commission, the last 10 years as chairman. 
Walter maintained an interest in Notre Dame in the years after graduation and was closely assoc­iated with activities of the Univer­sity. 
He was honored for his service as a Catholic lay leader when he was named a Knight of St. Gregory by Pope Pius XII, and later elected to the Knights of Malta. Other honors came from the National Conference of Christians and Jews and the city of Houston, which dedicated a public library in his name. 

Nixon. According to Baskir, "It program, many didn't think they was an opportunity for the govern­could apply, and some were simply ment to administer a little justice afraid of the consequences of and show a little forgiveness, turning themselves in. After all, it something that the government is was a conditional program and not always too good at doing." some were going to have to spend 
Baskir said the major opposition time in alternate service." to granting complete amnesty to all Another problem with the pro­draft violators was that it would be gram was a lack of time for the an open admission that the gov­violators to decide upon their 
ernment and society were wrong individual courses of action. Four for supporting the war. It also months was "simply insufficient implied that those who had refused 
time for the men to make this to tight, on the grounds that the decision." Although 21,000 people war was immoral, were right for did apply, Baskir felt that many breaking the law. Baskir said, more would have applied if there 
'·Amnesty challenges the funda­
had been more time. mental loyalties of the people of Baskir termed the results of the 
this country." President's clemency board as Baskir noted that the Taft Bill, 
"increasingly less satisfactory." proposed in 1971, opened up a While many people did receive middle ground concerning amnesty where before there had been none. The bill suggested that 'conditional clemency' was a feasible compro­mise between a straight pardon and a conviction. From this bill developed several 
definite benefits, such as a straight pardon or discharge, others were expected to give up jobs they already had and give anywhere from three to twenty-four months in alternate service to the govern­ment. 
"And these people," says Bas­kir, "are usually very unwilling Ill do alternate work and simply don't report. Sixty percent of those assigned alternate duty don't show. Only ISO out of a po.;siblt: 6000 havl' actually complctrd their time." 
Ford, however, would ~ay that his program was a succc·~s. Baskir commented, as it accomplished what he had planned: alleviate amnesty as a burning issue that was dividing the couatrv. 

conditional policies, but the one devised and adopted by President 


Hens Haus
Ford was, said Baskir, not very appealing to the general public or the White House. 
2803 South Mich1g<tn Street Phone 291-552:. 1 
"It was a complex, compromis­ing program, consisting of four Gem;Jn FoQCJ Our Spt.'Cialrv categories established for handling Created w1ih Uld Wonrl Atmosphere. Spec,allzmg specific types of offenders. Most 
iol German a'la A.merican Foods 
people weren't too clear on the 
• Sollth Bend's Finest Banquet Room> 
The Alp1ne & Bavarian Rooms Open 10:.30 a.m. to 10: 'lO p.m.-Closed Sundays and "iolldays 
The Harlem Globetrotters, the basketball comcd~· team, will ap­pear at the ACC on Thursday, April 8 at 7:30 p.m. Tickets for the performance arc now on sale. 
Tickets, which arc on sale at the ACC ticket office Monday through Saturdayfrom9a.m. toS p.m., arc $J. $4.SO and $5. Tickets may also be purchased at Robertson's.' First Bank. main office, and the Elkhart Trust during ofticc hours. 

/ \ 
ENGINEERING 
OPPORTUNITIES. 
Join a great officer team of engineers and architects who build for the Navy. Plan, design, construct and maintain shore-based facilities and undersea structures, worldwide. Exercise leadership and take on responsibilities young civilian engineers rarely have-while meeting requirements for registration as a PE. Excel­lent pay, housing and medical benefits. 
Contact: Lt. Bill Hughes, Officer Programs, Bldg. 41 NAS Glenview, II. 60026 or call collect (312) 657· 2169 
THE NAVY'S 
CIVIL ENGINEER CORPS. 
~ 

\'.. 
""'-­

l .' 
a lenten talk on SIN AND A FORGIVING GOD 
FR. JIM BURTCHAELL, CSC FARLEY HALL CHAPEL WEDNESDAY, MARCH 24 lOP.M. 
celebration of mass foHowing the talk and discussion The talk will be repeated next Wednesday in Morrissey Hall Chapel 


Classified Ads 
WANTED 
Need riders FROM Milwaukee. Leave Sunday at 4 pm. Call AI 3388 
LOST & FOUND 
Reward for return of Vivitar flash anachment tost Sat., Feb. 21. Call 6834 or 1715. 
FOR RENT 
UMOC is ooming -save your pennies, dirtballs 
Furnished houses, 1\Ml to seven bedroom Available for Septerriler or June. Call 234·9364 Su1111T'er houses and room; for rent real close to carrpus. Furnished ridiculously reasonably. 233 2613 or 232-7263 

4,5,6 bedroom hOuses. Corrpletely fumished. Extrerrely nice. Real close to carrpus. Sept. 1976 9 rronth lease. 233 2613 or 232-7263 
NOTICES 
Concert -March 27 -O'Laughlin Aud ­8:00pm. Students $1.00-We Together Singers of South Bend plus Faith Un­limited from Canada & Sprit Inc. from Iowa will share their gift of song. Join us. 
Will do typing, experienced. Term papers, manuscripts, ets., Call 233-8512 
Papers professionally and prorrplly typed. IBM Selectric II and oorrptete typing service. Call 277-2922 Stereo oorrponents 30-40 per cent dis­
oount.  All quality horre brands.  RMS  
Audio  321  S.  Main.  288 1681  M-F  
12:00-6:00  

FOR SALE 
For Sale: Dual1229 tumtable with base, dust oover &shure V-15 cartridge. $260 Call 1924 
Must sell quality stereo oorrponents. Call Ron at 287-0885 
PERSONALS 
Come celebrate and meet your vacationed friends at the Dillon Der1icts "Welmme Home" kegger. Riday Feb. 26 at the Can..,us View Commmity Center, 8-2. 

Star of Pany Duke show gets surprise visitor to':Jight. • •. :.: ..:, 
Dearest Peach Cheeks, Don' I worry, your best years are only beginning. Still enough tirre for "tooling around." We're here to help you celebrate your 19th in the proper spirit! Happy Birthday I Love, Ghandi, the beauty & the beast. 
Hello Andy Gardner. utile Sister 

La Gala Guggenheim! 1976 Beaux Arts Ball Architecture Building Sat. mardl 27 9pm3pm Music by Stratus Tic:Xets available in Arkie library $5 per couple $3 single DECADENT! 
Party, July 4th, Phila, Pa. Mother likes Kegs. Diane, 144 Lewis 
Found: Necklace, near Sorin. Call 8507 
Lost· Pipe, arou~ LaFortune or Ardly Bldg. Call 287-07.42 
. 

.··.. 


~-------------------~----­
8 the observer Wednesday, March 24, 1976 
Irish strikeout on southern 
•




SWing, prepare for opener 
by Rich Odioso pitching. The Irish were only able game and they were soon sorry to score on Frank Fiascki's two-run they did. The Irish picked up their 
The Notre Dame baseball team homer in the fourth and Bob first win of the season pounding out was both better and worse than Stratta's solo circuit in the fifth. St. a IS-S triumph. their Alabama record indicates. Bernard's won the game in the The Irish had 1S hits including 
Worse. in the sense that the Irish ninth on a walk, sacrifice and three each by Fiascki. Mike Gal­needed final day wins over Ohio Sullivan's looping hit. Freshman loway. Rick Pullano and Dave State and Alabama to even bring Mike Bobinski was the lr.;er in DeFacci. Bobowski launched a their won-loss record up to .333. relief of starter Stratta. two-run homer in a wild ten-run 
Better. however. in many other Rains fell on Monday and Tues­Irish fifth. Joe Karpowicz was the ways more important. "It was a day wiping out scheduled twi­beneficiary of his teammates lar­good trip." explains Coach Tom nighters against Jacksonville State. gesse allowing six hits in going the Kellv. "We went down there As later events showed this may distance. 
looking at it as a learning experi­have been unfortunate. Notre Dame moved on to Tusca­em·e and we did learn a lot. By the Instead the creaky Irish ran into loosa for the two-day .Joe Sewell end of the trip we had really a buzzsaw on Wednesday as Classic with Alabama and Ohio improved and I thought we were Auburn swept Notre Dame 10-2 State. Each team was scheduled to 
pia~ ing real good ball." and 9-0. A three-run homer by play the other two twice. 
Three of the losses were against Richie Howard in the fourth inning After Friday the Irish did not Auburn. a team with over a dozen proved decisive in the opener. A appear in very healthy shape games under their belt and already pair of Stratta singles knocked in managing a total of five hits and ~~ ;i~\
an 8-0 record in the SEC. "I was Fiascki with the Irish runs. zero runs as Ohio State blanked ND 3-0 and host 'Barna pulled off a 9-0 The Notre Dame nine got their first chance to play outside the ACC
really pleased with the way every­Terry Leach stopped ND on four 
one hung in there," Kelly. One of whitewash. as they dropped six of nine games in Alabama.
says hits in the second game. 

"After Auburn things could have the Irish hits was a triple by Stan Ted Semall was the man for the With their backs to the wall on Alabama only needed a win to gotten dismal but the team came Bobowski but the Tigers-War Buckeyes. flipping a one-hitter. Saturday Notre Dame came back to capture the tourney in its final back and played well at Tuscaloo­Eagles-Plainsmen came up with Notre Dame's only hit was a bunt take two and force the tourney into game, but like Ara Parseghian in ~a." Well enough to force the Joe four runs in the first to break it bv Pullano who was promptly a three-way tie. In the morning the Sugar Bowl. Don Wolfe denied Sewell Classic into a three-way open. Darkness mercifully thrown out stealing. Semall went game Mitch Stoltz and Marty the Tide its prize. The sophomore 
deadlock as the Irish shared the shortened the contest to five in­on to face the minimum 21 batters Serena teamed up to beat Ohio left-bander mixed his pitches bril­championship with 'Bama and nings. in the seven-inning game. state 4-2. liantly in blanking 'Barna S-0 on osu. The Irish were back before the Bob Stratta was the hard-luck The Buckeyes led 2-0 going into three hits. Pullano. Stratta and The Irish opened up the trip raucous Auburn fans the next day, loser for the Irish, allowing only the Irish fifth but ND came up with Lazzeri had two hits each as Notre Sunday with tiny St. Bernard's but this time they gave the Tigers two hits. The Buckeyes scored their three runs to take the lead. Singles Dame scored in four different College and practically the whole all they could handle. Notre Dame runs in the third -all unearned. by Dave Lazzeri, Fiascki an_d innings. town of Coleman. Alabama turned carried a 6-S lead into the final The host Tide ripped ND 9-0 Stratta. an error and two wild The Irish now await their season 
out for the biggest game of St. inning but the Tigers Mike Rea later in the day using a seven-run pitches made up the rally. Fiascki and home opener on Sunday, April 
Bernard's season. They went away slammed a three-run homer in the third inning. Bobowski had two ol" singled in Dave DeFacci with an 4 as Northern Illinois invades for a happy when Rick Sullivan's looping bottom of the seventh to give the four ND hits in the game. insurance run in the sixth. doubleheader at 1 p.m. single in the bottom of the ninth Auburn an 8-6 win. drove in the winning run for a 4-3 Notre Dame's big inning was a 
Pangborn, Off-Campus Ill claim 
St. Bernard's win. four-run fourth with Joe Pollock's 
Other St. Bernard games were double knocking two of the runs. cancelled and groundskeepers Bob Hughes pitched well for ND worked round-the-clock to get the but he tired after making nearly 
lnterhall basketball top honors 
soggy field in playing condition. one hundred pitches by the fifth by Ray O'Brien Off-Campus lii scored a decisive Chuck MacPherson was right be-Needless to say St. Bernard saved inning. Rea's homer came off 62-SO decision over a tough Dillon I hind with 14 points while Sponge its ace hulking 6-S lefthander John reliever Jim Sholl. team. Off-Campus lll, an excellent Martin added 12 points. Teising for the game and despite Jacksonville State came to Aubur Off-Campus III and Pangborn II shooting team, came out very hot Pangborn II broke out of a first being tagged for ten hits by Notre n Thursday to make up one of the captured their respective division but Chuck MacPherson matched half slump to down Alumni II 49-40 Dame he kept the score tied at 3-3 four rained out games after the titles in the Interhall Basketball their baskets for Dillon I. Both to take the Division II title. Both after eight with some fine clutch regularly scheduled NO-Auburn Championships. teams continued to exchange bas-teams came out cold missing easy 
kets as the two teams appeared to baskets due to early game ncr­be evenly matched . .Joe Montana vousness. The tirst quarter wa' provided the early scoring power very evenly matched in a rather

Irish netters await Maryland 
for O.C. Several turnovers by both helter skelter form. Neither team teams towards the end of the first could get off more than one shot by Tom Powanda Hopes are high as Notre Dame's team. O'Donnell's competitive quarter seemed to cool off the each time down the court as 
As warm weather approaches first singles player Rick Slager spirit and leadership qualities can shooting streaks. Pangborn claimed a I 0-8 lead. and tennis courts become populous only help the Irish this season.
seems destined to a showdown with The second quarter tempo im-Early foul trouble kept starters with people. the seasonal tennis Maryland's John Lucas. Most of Brian Hainline returns for his mediately picked up as the two from both teams out of action . .John 
boom has taken roots. Tom Fallon 

Slager's publicity has come from second year with the netters. As a teams were running hard. Little Lesko went off first with three fouls however. coach of the Notre Dame the gridiron where he quarter­freshman Hainline gained the scoring was done as turnovers and was immediately fotlowed bv tennis team has had his team backed the Irish in 197S but his necessary experience to compete in persisted. Both teams were strong Pangborn's Tim Packenham. Neii­working for weeks. tennis ability should not be over­college. A 6S percent winning off the defensive boards allowing her team could hit an outside shot 
Fallot. and his Irish netters are As sophomore, percentage as a frosh gives Notre onlv shot time an The
looked. a Slager one each down. or get offensive rebound. enthusiastic about an anticipated played number one for the Irish but Dame good support in the singles Most of the scoring was done from only difference was that Pang-
good season and have thus far sat out the entire 197S season events this year. 
the foul line as Kevin Doherty was born's height allowed them more compiled a 2-2 record. Both set­because of spring football. The newest addition to Notre 
perfect from the freebie line. inside buckets. Almost all outside backs came in the Wisconsin Playing in the second slot for the Dame tennis is Marty Horan. O.C. 's balanced attack continued to shots were falling short as both Indoor Quadrangular meet at the netters is Randy Stehlik. Randy led Coming from a good te~nis back­give them a slight edge. Doherty's teams complained the ball was 
hands of Minnesota and Southern ground in Worthington, Ohio,
the Irish last year with a 17-3 eight first half points were high in heavy. Pete Green had 6 points at Illinois. They also picked up a 
record. As a sophomore in 197S, Horan will see action in doubles the game as he kept Dillon close. the half for Alumni while Pangbornvictory in that meet against the Stehlik defeated All-American Fra which will hopefully prepare him The second half began the same relied on outside shooting by Mark host team Wisconsin and recently ncisco Gonzales fromOhio Stateand for the future. way the first half started with both Sheppard and three inside buckets evened their record with a home there is no doubt as to his ability. As is every team's goal. the Irish teams playing even up. Sponge by Tcdd Steppovich. Both teams victory against Ball State. Only a junior, Stehlik's future hope their record is good enough to Martin had the early hot hand for shooting percentages hovered 
This weekend. the Irish bring seems bright as does the Irish enable them to qualify for the Dillon. But O.C. 's height gave around 2S percent.
their 2-2 record to College Park, team. NCAA tournament in Corpus 
them the slight edge as forward Todd Sladek started working
Maryland. to participate in the Mike O'Donnell will captain ND Christi, Texas late in May. In 
Dave Kelly led the way. Tom Kirby inside for Pangborn at the start of annual Cherry Blossom Tourna­this year. His size and experience preparation for that, Fallon hopes also added a hot hand from the the second half as he picked up a 
ment. 

should contribute greatly to the to host his own Midwest Invita­outside while Tom Monaghan pen-quick 9 points to increase Pang­tional Tournament early in May. etrated the middle for O.C. IlL born's lead to 29-19 before Alumni Tennis is of course at a sub-par Doherty and Martin tried to keep called time out. Pangborn played a level compared to basketball and Dillon in the game as O.C. lil tight zone defense which only
football here at Notre Dame. The 
outscored them 24-14 in the third allowed for outside shots which explanation is obvious. No scholar­quarter. Alumni was not hitting. Pangborn ships are given in tennis as in the O.C. lil entered a semi-stall continued to have success working other sports which inhibits any weave to eat up the clock in the the ball into the low post. All three large scale recruiting by coach fourth quarter. MacPherson re-players in Pangborn's front line Fallon. While other teams can offer gained his hot hand and began to scored from the inside and did an highly ranked players full scholar­score for Dillon. Dillon continued to excellent job sweeping the defen­ships and suitable tennis weather. cut the lead but it was simply sive boards as Pangborn's lead Notre Dame must rely on the too late. increased to 3S-2J by the end of the tradition of its name and the O.C. lii won the game because third quarter. Early driving baskets promise of a good education. of a balanced attack which was by Sheppard broke Alumni's man 
Over the years however. Notre their strength all season. They to man defense and blew the gameDame has proved itself on the were a very unified team under the open for Pangborn. Alumni's late tennis court despite such advan­direction of coach Mike Isban. They fourth quarter press was handled tages. The Irish remain the only finished the game with four men in easily by a motivated Pangborn Midwest school to win the NCAA double figures. Tom Monaghan led team. crown in tennis twice. "We have the way as he has all season with 18 In the end Pangborn's height had a fair amount of success," points. As would seem appropriate advantage was just too much for contends Fallon, "and this reaf­Joe Montana quarterbacked this Alumni. Pete Green was the only firms my philosophy that it is team as he finished with 12 points. man who could hit from the outside possible to have a representative Dave Kelly and Bill Sahm scored 10 for Alumni as he finished with 13 college team and not sacrifice an and 11 points respectively. Tom points . .Jim Kelley also added 8 individual's education." Kirby and .Jeff Thompson were points in the losing cause. Sladek 
Following the tournament this instrumental in O.C. 's undefeated finished with 13 points for Pang-weekend the Irish return home for season. born to share game scoring honors. a match against Western Michigan Kevin Doherty once again led the Sheppard poured in 12 points and on April 1. way for Dillon I with 16 points. kept the offense flowing. 






