Fr. Hesburgh to chair Rockefeller Foundation 
by Barb Langbenry Senior Staff Reporter 
Fr. Theodore M. Hesburgh, University president, was elected chairman of the Board of Trustees of the Rockefeller Foundation on Jan. 14. 
The Foundation's announcement cited his "international reputaion as an outstanding educator" and his '' vigorous and consistent sup­port of the civil rights and economic opportunity of minorities." 
Hesburgh describes his new appointment as a leadership and persuasion role that will coordinate the movement of the 22-member board. He stated that there are no definite plans for the board at this time as they are constantly reass­essing their goals. 
He slso stated that the position will not affect his role as president of the University. 
The board, which Hesburgh describes as "very distinguished," includes members such as the present governor of West Virginia. 
When appointed as a trustee of the Foundation 16 years ago, Hesburgh was the first Catholic ever invited onto the board. He has served on its nominating and executive committees. 
The Green Revolution, which was launched by setting up 12 research units throughout the world to experiment with methods for the better production of food, has been one of his main concerns while on the board. The !improve­ment of universities in underdevel­oped countries and a concern for human equality have also been among his principle activities. 
The foundation, which was 
founded in 1913, has three major domestic concerns. They involve the arts and humanities, environ­mental science and equal oppor­tunity. Internationally, the Foun­dation concentrates on population and health, education for develop­ment and the .fight against hunger. 
Hesburgh also cited some of their medical work, such as erad­icating yellow fever and their present work, researching schisto­somiasis, a liver disease. 
It is among the nation's largest foundations and has spent over one and one-half billion dollars at a rate of SO million dollars per year. They presently have an endowment of 850 miilion dollars. 
"The foundation's motto is 'For 
the good of mankind everywhere," 
Hesburgh stated, adding that he feels they have worked in line with this motto in the past. 
Hesburgh succeeds Cyrus R. Vance, who resigned from the board because of his nomination as Secretary of State. The chairman­ship is for an indefinite length of time. 

server 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's 
Vol. XI, No, 65 Tuesday, january 25, 1977 

Carter: Ban all nuclear testing 
WASHINGTON [AP] -President posal ready by May 1 and will 
-Third, all other nations would be possible," he said. "Ifall the other all different directions, it wouldCarter says the Soviet Union has present a comprehensive energy asked to reduce and eventually to world leaders have the same com­delay the beneficial impact of the 
sent an "encouraging" response to policy "within 90 days." eliminate their own stockpiles of mitment that I do, then it would economic stimulus package andhis proposal to ban all testing of But Carter placed primary em­nuclear weapons, including indeed be possible." 
hurt our country."
nuclear weapons as a first step phasis on his plans to move toward France, Great Britain, the Peoples Carter, who said that even in his On another subject, Carter said,toward , dismantling the world's the reduction and ultimate elimina­Republic of China and "even those "I am not searching for ways to early White House days he hasatomic arsenal. tion of nuclear weapons. His who have a relatively small inven­been able to find time for hisdemonstrate that I am obstinate in "I am infavor of eliminating the statements prompted a spate of tory now." 
dealing with Congress." customary two hours of readingtesting of all nuclear devices, questions at the White House news ''Those are the inevitable each night, said that so far he hasinstantly and completely," Carter briefing on Monday. steps," Carter said. "The defini­He said that he will deal with the enjoyed being President and hassaid in his first interview since Press Secretary Jody Powell said tive achieving of those steps will Congress on a case-by-case basis. 
found the White House inspiringbecoming the nation's chief exec­he was not in a position to expand depend on the cooperation of the "On something where I am com­and sobering.
utive. on the interview. Soviet Union." mitted because of conviction or "To go into the Lincoln bedroomHe said the Soviet Union has At the State Department, Secre­where the proclamation was signedmade no commitment on his pro­tary of State Cyrus R. Vance said to emancipate the slaves and to goposal. adding that he does not no Russian message had been into the Treaty Room where theknow what conditions Moscow received concerning an immediate treaty ending the Spanish-Ameri­might place on comprehensive test atomic test ban. 
can War was signed is a veryban. Sources said Carter appeared to because of a committment to the sobering and a very gratifyingWithout going into details he have made his "encouraging" Carter said he will use all American people, I will be very experience for me," he said.
said,"They have sent an encourag­response statement on the basis of diplomatic resources at the dispo­strong and very aggressive and "I can't say I feel completely ating message back." private communications with inter­sal of the United States to prevent very adamant about pursuing my ease with it yet,'' he said.
Carter spoke with four reporters mediaries who have talked with nations that do not possess atomic position." "But you feel very heavily thefrom The Associated Press and Soviet leaders and from public weapons from obtaining them. 
He said he will continue to responsibility on you and youUnited Press International in the statements made by Soviet He said that he wants facilities consult closely with the Congress recognize the crises through whichOval Office of the White House on officials. that reprocess spent nuclear fuel on economics and foreign affairs. those leaders in the past haveSunday afternoon. placed under strict international "But I am the leader of our brought the country.
He spoke of his relations with the Three point plan controls to prevent the production country, elected as President, •' he ''you see in reading history ...
Congress, his hopes of dampening of nuclear fuels that could be used regional arms races by holding In the interview, Carter spelled for weapons of war. He proposed a said. "I have got my promises to many of the mistakes and weak­
out a three-point plan to move fulfill and I intend to fulfill them." nesses and fallibilities of the pres­
down sales in conventional arms complete ban, "within the bounds 
toward the abolition of nuclear He said he hopes that Congress idents that were compensated for
and predicted that a Middle East of our capability," on the expan­
weapons. will follow his economic recovery by the strength of this country,'' he
peace conference is likely this year. sion of such plants to countries that 
-The first step would require the do not now have them. proposal rather closely because, "if said. "That is a reassuring Not enough women United States and the Soviet Union ''The complete elimination of Congress should start going off in thought." 
to clamp "firm limits" on their 
nuclear weapons from the world is Carter said that while he feels nuclear arsenals "with adequate both a hope and a goal," Carter 
"at ease" with the number of assurance that the monitoring of said, adding, "I mean it very
blacks he has named to high compliance with agreements is deeply." 
Murphy 'wins' •
1n 

government positions so far, he has there on both sides." 
He was asked how he would 
been less successful in recruiting -Second, substantive reductions 
respond to those who say it is 
women. 
would be made in U.S. and impossible at this stage to put the He said he intends to have a U.S.S.R. arsenals to "demonstrate nuclear genie back in the bottle. 

uncontested election 
comprehensive welfare reform pro-to the world we are sincere." 
"I don't believe it is im-by Marti Hogan candidates attended the meeting. St. Mary's Editor "I didn't even know there was an election today until this morning," 
Sophomore Kathy Murphy was said Denise Persinger, sophomore. elected yesterday as St. Mary's "I didn't see one sign." Vice President for Student Affairs. "Everyone knew there was only The position became vacant last one person running and many felt it December when Mary Ann Stoltze wouldn't matter whether they resigned for personal reasons. voted or not,'' commented junior 
Running uncontested, Murphy Rosaleen Muench. won with a large majority of the Mignanelli said many students vote. She needed 50 percent plus asked her why an election was even one person of those voting to win. necessary with only one candidate JoAnn Baggiano, a junior who had but she explained that Murphy nominated herself but later with­needed a majority of yes votes to drew, received a few write-in votes. win. 
Approximately 10 percent of the Murphy, however, was enthusi­student body participated in yes­astic about the win. "The first terday's election, and Election major thing I have planned is some Commissioner Maria-Lisa sort of community service to in­Mignanelli commented on the poor volve the whole campus," she said. turn-out. She cited a spring cleaning project 
''There was publicity, but I think for the elderly in South Bend as a over Christmas vacation kids forgot possibility. "We really haven't that there would be an election,'' narrowed anything down yet." Mignanelli said. "Some kids She indicated that her job would suggested a meet-the-candidate consist mainly in "overseeing night, but we rejected the idea things, because there's not much because there was such a poor time between now and April, which response from the freshman meet­is when the new officers take over. the-candidates night.'' Only three I'll be initiating new proposals as students other than the freshmen things come up," she concluded. 
For exclusive 'Observer coverage of the Inauguration, see pages 4 and 5. 

-

the observer Tuesday, january 25, 1977 
Supplement ready 
The Spring Supplement to the 1976-77 Placement Manual is now
C,0~m.~,::.U.~""!~~~~ "::l ready and may be picked up by 
building. seniors at the Placement Bureau.
I'"• t~~ I 

OS,' J

According to figures released by 
Ye•r

4 pm Rubgy council meeting, corby's the Placement Bureau, the distrib­ution of employers scheduled for 
PREPARE FOR: 
the spring semester will be: Arts and Letters, 55; Engineering, 375;
4 \(1 pill 

-seminar, '· 1mmunoregulation in trypanosome in­Business, 376, and Science, 151. lt>lllllllS", dr. donald g dusanic, indiana state The supplements may be picked Lilli\ Pr~ltY, sponsorPd by biology dept., galvin aud. up at the bureau's office, located in 
• OCAT 

building. The office is open pill -talk and discussion, "career opportunities in Monday through Friday from 8 

·SAT 

,ll·ro~pacP engineenng' ·, dr thomas j mueller, a.m. to 5 p.m. 
"llllll"orPd bv studPnt chaptPr of american institutP 
nt dt·ronc~ut1cs and d-.tronautlcs. room 12, aerospace 
matter wh1ch course is taken Over 38 yearslab. 
and succes~ Smalt classes. Volum<nous

Observer Staff 
mater.als Courses thJt are constantly up­wee~ends a'l year
7 pm rugby meeting for all interested, ace between the Reporters meetingcoaches' offices 

There will be a meeting for all -~~I ~Jill Observer reproters and anyone who -pr.ner meeting, ch.ln'>llliltlc, Iafortune, second 
wishes to start writing for the 
floor, room d. Observer Thursday night at 7 pm. in the Observer office on the third floor of LaFortune. The 
H pill -lt•tlure, ·rrun1 rhoclt''>lcl to Zllllbdbwe: a VIPW trom purpose of this meeting is to tht· lllli\Pr~lt\ ··. clr. 11lc1r'>hall murphree, univPr'>ltV 
organize for second semester and 
to discuss reorganization of the news department. 
11: rlwciP'>Id. '>pon'>orPd bv inst for internationdl 
':udl''" .1nd alnc,Jn stud1es program, area studies re.Iding room, room 1201, library. 
This will be a mandatory meeting for all old reporters and al new reporters are welcome Anyone who 
H 1>Pill -lecture, "thP land oi isr<wl m the hebrew biblp". 
will be unable to attend "the meeting should contact Bob Maderprot JO~Pph blt>nh-111sopp, sponsored by thPology 
at 7471.
dt·pt galvin aud. 


(*The Observer1
'l Jllll -meeting, an tostal organizational mePting, Ia­fortune ballroom. 
Night Editor: Paul Schappler Asst. Night Editor: Bill Rivard Layout Staff: Cathy Kustner,
'l Pill -concert, billy adams, nazz. 
Cindy McKiel, Diane Wilson Editorial Layout: Pat Hanifan Features Layout: Tim O'Reileyw jllll -concert, hd I 111c1h r. nazz. 
Sports Layout: Bob Keen, Paul Stevenson Typists: Karen Chiames,
m1drm~ht -wsnd 6-lO am-the ,tlhum hour features gary wright 
Stephanie Urillo, Kitty
llt'\\' rt•lt•,]<,p 'light of smiles". 
Conklin, Mel Celeste
L J Night Controller: Don Roos Day Editor: Jean Powley Ad Layout: Pat Russell 
lPhotographer: Paul Clevenger)

Car-train accident at SMC 

RETREAT WEEKEND AT OLD COLLEGE this friday evening through 
Sunday a.m. Fr. Dave Burrell · exercises in prayer sign up in campus ministry office an 103 library $6 fee ~,~ 


results in loval man injured 
by Jean Powley accident, Nivens had given two or Staff Reporter three St. Mary's students a ride back to the campus. 
A young South Bend man sus­"It could have been worse. It tained a broken arm Friday evening could have happened on the way in when the car he was driving when there were more people in collided with a ConRail train on the car." Kovatch said. Saint Mary's campus. Traffic was rerouted from St. 
According to Anthony Kovatch, Mary's main entrance road to its director of St. Mary's security, northern entrance for about an David Nivens, of 1253 Woodward hour while the wreckage was Ave., South Bend, was leaving the cleared away. 
campus at approximately 7 p.m., Friday when his gold 1970 Olds­mobile 442 slid into the southbound locomotive and was dragged sev­eral yards. He was apparently moving too quickly for the slippery road conditions and was unable ot stop when he saw the train, Kovatch said. 
Nivens was able to crawl out of 
the car on the right side. He was 
then taken to Memorial Hospital

·-------­
for treatment. "He's lucky to be alive. Kovatch said. Several minutes prior to the 
. 

-------------·----; 
lht·<>h"''~\t•r r"(llJ!d,·-fu·d \1tlll•l.t\ tll'tllH.dl I rrrld\ ,Jrul \•.i•t•k.l\ dlHrn~ tht· "tllrlllllt'r "f'Voidrl. t'\l•·pl durrng tht• f'\.,1/ll t~ncl \tell ~If Hili JH'rlt•d~. Iht· 
()h'''"''' "puhl"l1t·clll\ 'IIJ<Jo.nt' .,, tlw l 111\<'r"l\ ol Nnlr<• I J.rrnp .t•HI '>t .\1.1r\ ' (nil··~·· <.,IJ!r't r:pllllll' rnd\ ht• pur1 h.~ .... ,·d 11 t'. ~.!II pt•r , t•,tr 
I~ llltJt•r "'""''l••rl ln>rn 11"' ( H'"'r­
\<'r llo\ (). Nutn· ll,l/111' lndi.tll~ 
·lb',;r, St•((Hid , ld" pu,t.tg•· p.ud 
"-;otrt• Ddlllt' lnd<dfl.t 41JS;!, 
1ht• Ob"'" Pr " " nwmlwr ul thP A""' ldtt•d l'n'" .All n·pruduc Iron rlghh <lrt' r''"'r\t'd 
Do you want to be-ali : SMC Social Commission presents: t 
A CATHOLIC? = ~ i 
Please call283-6536 or 283-3820 f. SECOND ! 
for information about the • f Notre Dampe Catechumenate i C1TY i 
rogram : : 
................................. 
··---······ 

<·:-:-:-:-:-:·-.·.·.·--:-:-:-:-:-:-:·:-:-:-:-:·:-:-:-:·:-:-:-:·:-.·>.·.·.·.-.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·c.·.-.·.·-·.·.-.-.-.-.·.-.·-·.·-·.·c.·.···········-------····.·-.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.-.·.-.·.·.-.-.---.---.·.·.-.·.·.·,·, :.<.<.<,<.<.<.<::.<.<.<::.-:.-:-:,-:.-:,-:.·:.-:.-:,-:,-:,-:,-:.·:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::.-:.-:,-:-:-:.-:-:_-:::.-:. 
__ _ • • 

DROP IN FOR A WEEK OF SPECIAlS .: a comedy revue : 
.. 

. . 
AT THE • b :: ,·nan all new show .•



sentor ar::t t 
: Sat., Jan. 29-8:00pm • 
Wednesday Stop over after the B-ball game! 
: !­
~ O'Laughlin Auditorium :
Thursday -Busch Night:· special prices on Busch all night. 
:! $2.00-Students & Faculty 


Friday -Ladies Night 1 free drink or beer for every lady Special all nite: 30 cent beers 
Saturday -open at noon -pregame specials on pizza and beer -watch the game with us at the bar -open after the game till 2 a.m. 
$3.00 -General Admission 
Ticket sales begin Tues•.at SMC Programming Office--4176 
Box Office closes at 8:1 s the night of the perfor­. rnance. _ , . \ ...•. , • . . . . 
.....................:·············~······ 
r 
----~----------~--­
Tuesday, january 25, 1977 
the observer 
Rhodesia rejects proposal for new government 
SALISBURY, Rhodesia AP 
Britain's shuttle diplomacy to achieve a settlement between Rho­desia's white minority and the black majority failed yesterday. 
Prime Minister Ian Smith reject­ed British proposals for a transition government leading to black rule in 14 months and told Rhodesians he did so because they allowed for immediate control of the country by a "Marxist indoctrinated minor­ity." 
One black nationalist group im­mediately accused Smith of "opt­ing for war." British Foreign Secretary Anthony Crosland warn­ed that southern Africa faces "calamitous consequences." 
Smith's action appeared to doom chances of a return to the dead­locked Geneva conference, con­vened in November on the initiative of 0ormer U.S. Secretary of State Henry A. Kissinger to seek agree­ment on the transfer of rule from the white minority to the black majority in Rhodesia. 
However, Smith said in a nation­wide radio and television speech that he would seek an internal settlement between his govern­ment and the country's 6.4 million blacks. He said it would be done within the framework of a plan he accepted from Kissinger in Sept­ember and which black nationalist leaders rejected at Geneva. 
A recently formed conservative black group, the Zimbabwe United People's Organization, said Smith was right to reject the proposals and indicated its willingness to enter negotiations for an internal settlement. 
Ivor Richard, the British chair­man of the Geneva conference who prosented the proposals to Smith 




Notre Dame senior killed 
Early Monday morning, Jan. 24, 1977, Anne T. "Terri" Gwynn was killed in an auto accident on the Indiana Toll Road. The accident ocurred at 1:00 a.m. near the LaPorte exit, as she was returning from Chicago. 
Gwynn, a senior enrolled in the College of Arts and Letters at Notre Dame, was alone in the car. ln a letter to student media representa­tives, James Roemer, Dean of Students, stated the car "went off the road into a ditch, turned over and exploded in flames when it hit an abutment. She died of asphyxi­ation." 
The accident ocurred as Gwynn was returning to school after visiting her fiancee, James R. Watkins, a 1976 graduate of Notre Dame. 
Gwynn resided off-campus this year and had lived in Farley in previous years. Sr. Jean Lenz, rector of Farley, stated that a memorial mass will be offered at Farley, but plans have not yet been finalized. Further information will be made availabe through the Observer if possible. 

The family has decided to fly the body from LaPorte to Santa Fe, New Mexico and funeral arrange­ments are still incomplete. Bro. Just Paczesny, vice-president of student affairs, is coordinating the matter of sending a University representative to Santa Fe for the service. 

Applications for the 
positions of managers 
of the senior bar will be available starting Monday, January 31 at the office of student affairs and at the senior bar from Wed., Feb. 2 




BORED?? 

COME TO ... 
Volunteer Services Night Library Auditorium & Concourse Tonight : 7:00-9:00 
There will be a short presentation at 7:00 on the various volunteer activities available to NO -SMC students. Recruitment by the volunteer groups will take place in the 
Library lobby until 9:30. 

Develop your talents --Meet new people 
earlier in the day in an effort to reconvene the talks, said he saw no purpose in returning to Geneva unless Smith changed his stance. 
Richard blamed Smith for the collapse of negotiations and said he felt "sad and apprehensive" about the future of Rhodesia, a British colony until Smith unilaterally de­clared it independent in 1965. Black guerrillas have been con­second thoughts and not to close the door irrevocably to any further discussion of the British proposals." 
"If he does so, the calamitous consequences for southern Afri­cans which I and the prime minister James Callaghan predicted will no doubt occur," Crosland said. 
Smith reiterated that white Rho­desia remains committed to Kis­inger's proposals for settlement over two years. The Kissinger plan called for a two-tiered transition government made up of a supreme council of state with equal numbers of blacks and whites but a white chairman, and a black-dominated executive ministerial council in which the armed forces and law and order would remain in white hands. 
ducting a hit-and-run war against •••••••••••••••••••••••••• 
whites in border areas for four years. 
The 57-year-old white leader, in a SO-minute meeting with Richard, turned down the British proposal, which called for black rule in 14 months and a black-dominated interim government over which 
Britain  would  exercise ultimate  
control.  
In  London,  Foreign  Secretary  

Corsland issued an appeal to Smith before the broadcast "to have have 

need posters in a hurry? 
. .

•nsty-pr1nts~ 
the wiz of the printing biz! 1 00 -11 x 17 posters Only $10.00 
203 N. Main 'SoBend 289-6977 
Remember 
FREE UNIVERSITY?? 


Monday, January 24 Classes started 
Forgotten your dates and times ? 
Stop by the Free University office, 2nd Floor LaFortune 
We want men and women with engineering or other technical degrees 
... for careers in steel operations, shipbuilding, engineering, sales, mining, and research. 

Our Loop Course recruiters will be here on 
Feb. 8,9, 1977 

Let's talk about it. 






Bethlehem 
an equal opportunity employer 
-------~---------~­
r the observer Tuesday, January 25, 1977 




The National Party 
By Tim O'Reiley and Gregg Bangs 
In a republic that prides itself on Jr.'s famous "I have a dream" speech Albertson for autographs, pictures and a simplicity, it most closely resembles a royal some fourteen years ago. few words. But it seemed appropriate that gala. America gets one chance every four And what American celebration would in the home of Hollywood, an actor would years to hold a national party, and makes be complete without fireworks? To make upstage the politicians. the most of it. The Inauguration of the sure this one wouldn't be, there was a huge In between the parties and concerts President marks a chance to refresh and fireworks display held Tuesday night in the came the inauguration proceedings them­renew the national spirit, so all the stops mall between the Capitol Building and the selves. Over 1SO,OOO people braved the are pulled to give the President at least a Washington Monument. sub-freezing weather and snow covered few pleasant days in Washington. Just to remind all where this President streets to witness the swearing in of the 
By looking at a Schedule of Events put was from, several events, people and 39th President. Without proper connec­out by the 1977 Inaugural Committee, it trademarks lent a distinct Georgia taste to tions, tickets for Capitol Grounds were very was evident that more people than just the the proceedings. There was the Atlanta hard to come by. This turned buildings President had a good time. Running from Boy's Choir, the previously mentioned such as the Library of Congress and the Tuesday, Jan. 18 through Saturday, Jan. Concert of Georgia Music and the Atlanta House and Senate Office Buildings into 
22. the Committee put on a kaleidoscope of Symphony to fill the air with Georgian bleachers for the thousands who could not 
events that would keep anybody and tunes. Naturally Billy Carter (complete get past the police lines. everybody happy. Receptions (some with beer bottles) and the faithful Peanut Preferred Standing Areas (where most of charged money. some didn't), concerts, Brigade (campaign workers) added their the alloted tickets were) offered somewhat film festivals. prayer services, art exhibits distinctive rowdy touches. And to top it equal views of the Inauguration Stand. 
(almost all free) and even a pup~pet show off, there was a forty foot peanut tloating However. a few helped themselves to were offered to the public in this city-wide around the streets. better seats, as they stood on snow mounds party. Souvenir hunters went after Jimmy or climbed trees in search of a better view. It almost seemed the people planning for Carter pennants,. Jimmy Carter buttons, Even for those that couldn· t see very well. 
this week were intent on turning the Jimmy Carter pictures, Jimmy Carter they could certainly hear everything·. since inauguration of the President into a t-shirts. Jimmy Carter postcards. Jimmy the sound system was excellent. c·ultural ei;ent. The shows, concerts. and Carter biographies, Jimmy Carter this. About 90 minutes later, when the new other activities offered could have filled a Jimmy Carter that, Jimmy Carter ... President began his trek to the White 
y·ear's worth of feature pages. Concerts The tired. hungry and thirsty were not House, he did not walk unaccompanied. were particularly in evidence as sounds neglected. Seemingly jealous of all the The combined forces of wellover 6,000D.C. 
ranging over the entire musical sphere attention Mr. Carter of Georgia was Police, Capitol Police, Park Police, getting. scores of Democratic State Organ­members of the armed forces, and Secret izations, Senators and Congressmen gave Service Agents lined the parade route, parties that, whether so intended or not, where spectators lined up 10 deep in spots. became open to all the public. Even the On the last couple of blocks of Penn­blind could follow the carts of food and sylvania Ave. before the White House, liquor that were pushed through the halls stands were erected with seats going for of the congressional office buildings. Once $25 apiece. The Inaugural Committee also gaining entry to these receptions (a went the extra step by providing "more relatively minor problem--especially if toilet facilities along the parade route than you're hungry), food, liquor, and some­there have ever been at previous in­times both were practically handed to augurals.'' guests on a platter. 

The parade itself provided further 
Arkansas led things off in a big way with 

testimony to the stamina of Mr. Carter, as their southern-style of partying on Wed­nesday in the Rayburn House Office Building. Red jackets and skirts, Razor­back identification tags, live fiddlin', square dancin', delicious fried chicken, ham sandwiches, smooth southern bourbon, and Wilbur Mills highlighted one of the week's best parties. 
New York's Thursday reception, which was held in the famous Watergate caucus room, was more crowded than Times Square on New Year's Eve .. However, they were more than prepared to deal with the situation as they had a seemingly endless supply of New York produce such as Taylor wine, terrible apple cider, terrific apples, cheese, crackers. donuts and a man handing out New York stickers to anything that moved. New York sent out its finest political celebrities too, as Gov. Carey, Mayor Hearne, Bella Abzug, Averell Harriman, Mary Anne Krupsek and special guest Billy Carter shared the podium at one time or another. 

The main story about this one was the crowd--it was like trying to move in a subway at rushhour. The Capitol police had to be at their storm trooper best to avoid a complete stampede. Even with the he never lost his smile during the long police, it took Mayor Beame IS minutes to procession. While Amy Carter frolicked cover the 12S feet from the entrance to the about the solar-heated Presidential 

could be heard throughout Washingtor 
speaker's podium. Reviewing Stand (a design which prompted streets. To be precise, one could hea1 Offering only champagne, the California Vice President Walter Mondale to com­blues (Bullmoose Jackson), jazz (Pau delegation party was still the highlight of ment, "So much for solar heating"), 148 Winter consort). African Drum ensembles. 
the Friday reception tour. Thankfully less separate floats, bands, and other contin­string quartets. Chinese Lion Dances, th( crowded than the New York mob scene, it gents passed by, plus a parade-crashing··Brazilian Sambitas.'' Renaissance Dance. 
still pulled a good share of celebrities, the Abe Lincoln on roller skates. Indeed, as bluegrass (Southern Mountain Boys) and. most popular being Oscar award-winner was remarked at one Republican ina·ugu­of course. something called a Concert ol Jack Albertson. An endless stream of rai. "All that's missing are Democrats 
Georgia Music . 
people badgered the ever-accomodating walking by in chair.s." After a few final 
And if these dozens offree concerts were not enought. there was a 3-hour star-laden !>how Wednesday evening at the Kennedy Center that drew national TV coverage. Sorry·. only the privileged few were invited to that one. The likes of Muhammed Ali. Paul Simon. Aretha Franklin. Maureen Stapleton. Beverly Sills and Warren Beatty showed up to make the "outsider" President feel at home. Even crusty Republican John Wayne came on to give a pep talk about the role of loyal opposition. 
This is not to say concerts were the only shows in town. Eugenia Rawls presented a film tribute to Tallulah Bankhead at the Kennedy Center while James Dickey gave a free poetry reading at noon on Wednes­day in the Folger Shakespeare Library. The Tempell Lippizzans Stallionsprancedin front of the White House on both Tuesday and Wednesday to the delight ofthe horsey set. 
For the early risers, morning prayer services started every day. The biggest of these took place Thursday when Martin Lu_ther King, Sr., rnd Ruth Carter Staple­ton officially started the inaugural day with a prayer service outside the Lincoln Memorial, the site Martin Luther King, waves and handshakes with dignitaries. the new President went through a side door of his stand and onto the front lawn of his new. home. 


However, he did not stay there long. for that evening he was to visit every one of the seven balls held around town. The balls were held in facilities as diverse as the Armory and the Shoreham-Americana Hotel and drew over 16,000 people, most of whom paid over $25 a ticket. For this they got a tleeting glimpse of both the President and Vice President and the chance to buy a drink for $2.00 and a beer for $1.SO. And if the tloor wasn't too crowded with media types and TV cameras, one could dance to some very good bands. At the Sheraton­Park, Aretha Franklin held court for an hour and a half before her voice gave out. At other spots around town. rock bands such as Marshall Tucker, Charlie Daniels and Sea Level played. At the Shoreham (which was the Minnesota home party) one of the better bands was a jazz band from Minneapolis named the Wolverines. Modern music was provided by a medium­sized black dance band who specialized in disco and Supreme-Temptation typ<" song~. 
However. the highlight of the evening at the Shoreham came after one o'clock when the old Glenn Miller Band came on and gave people a chance to jitterbug their heads and legs off till 2: IS in the morning. 
So what was the highlight of the entire inaugural proceedings that took place over this five day period? It was the chance to bump into and talk with a senator, turn around and see a celebrity, follow that with going to a judiciary hearing, talk to a lifelong bureaucrat, inquire about the relative merits of press secretaries, being able to find your way around Washington, and generally making some order out of this quadrennial event. This was made easier because the city was in a jovial mood and everybody was willing to talk. 
Incidentally, Jimmy Carter was sworn in as thirty-ninth President of the United States at 12:03 pm E.S.T., Thursday, Jan. 20, 1977. 
----~-"----~--­

B~ Gregg Bangs 
When travelling to a special event, one generally expects or hopes to run into a series of happenings that make the trip exciting. Whether it's meeting a famous person, doing something insane or getting caught up in the sway of things, events like these are frequently the main reasons for the overall "success" of the trip. 
In Milwaukee, the event is generally drinking, especially when General Order No. 24 (complete waste and destruction) is called for. The special event is, of course, getting home in one piece. In New York City, staying in one piece can be con­sidered the only event. 
However, an inauguration in Washing­ton D.C. is something different. D.C. is a visitor's delight--famous buildings, famous 

Democratic Playpen 
By Thomas O'Neil 
Democrats are a lot like children. Under normal conditions they tend to be easily excitable, but whenever they make a triumphant return to power they tend to get hysterically jubilant. 
Last week in Washington D.C. the Democrats were especially jubilant. Approximately 100,000 of them came from outside regions to join to 200,000 others who turned out for the inauguration of a Democratic and "Southern" president. Southern accents abounded throughout the city, and doses of southern hospitality proved contagious. Parties, receptions and even square dances were everywhere, and the child-like Democrats were eve~here celebrating. 
This was no longer the Washington D.C. of the Watergate period. Cooperation and gladness had replaced secrecy and para­noia. One bystander commented that this was the most "spirited and alive" he had ever seen the city. He added, "This inaugural is a lot more fun than Nixon's four years ago. Some of Nixon's parties were a lot more fun than the Carter ones, but the entire atmosphere here has never been surpassed in my opinion." 
The 100.000 visitors to Washington were entertained at state delegation parties and receptions hosted by their congressmen. The receptions and parties were usually free, with a buffet. an open bar and political celebrities to keep the guests entertained. The 200,000 D.C. regulars turned out mostly during their lunch hours or coffee breaks for the swearing in and the parade. 
It was the senators and congressmen, however, who seemed particularly visible and happy. They were nonetheless nervous and outwardly confused over how this thing could have happened in the first place, how an unknown outsider with an outrageous smile could so easily unseat an incumbent president. A sleeping Carter might surface back home who could easily replace them also. Perhaps frightened into it, they seemed to be re-dedicated to their jobs, and made themselves overly access­ible to their constituents throughout the inaugural period. And they were smiling. 
But the president himself seemed to be having the best time of all. "It's been just about a perfect day," he told newsmen. Although his inaugural address which began the ceremonies was generally low key, he capped it with a unique drama by acting out the advice of an Old Testament prophet he quoted. "Walk humbly with thy God,'' the prophet Micah, Carter quoted. The president extended the advice to include "thy people" when he "walked home," as the New York Times wrote, down the parade route from Capitol Hill to the White House. 
The parade itself was generally typical of any parade. The area high schools and colleges supplied marching bands that otherwise were typical of half-time enter­
tainment at football games. But the spectators' enthusiasm was exceptionally high-pitched. One of them commented, "This is a people's parade, part of the people's inaugural. I'm as much a part of 
this as the people marching in it." There were seven inaugural balls that evening, most ofthem boring, according to several accounts, but the enthusiasm 
seemed to prevail in any case. One man commented, "Nixon really threw better inaugural parties, but somehow I feel more comfortable here." 
An Observer survey taken randomly along the inaugural parade route showed that 85 percent of the spectators believed Carter will eventually rank as one of the greatest American presidents. Although 95 percent of them called themselves Democrats and they were mostly caught up in the inaugural enthusiasm, there seemed to be an insistence in the expressions of the Tuesday, january 25, 1977 the observer 

5 



Federal Waste 
people, interesting possibilities for the special event; with an inauguration the possibilities for a worthwhile time sky­rocket. 
It was with a great deal of anticipation that six people departed from South Bend last Tuesday for the inauguration of Jimmy Carter. What follows is an account of the happenings that won't make The New York Times, The Washington Post, Time or even The Rolling Stone. But they are events that can make a student's venture to a big event worth going to. 
The Trip 
The Observer van is fine for delivering papers around campus, but it does not rate when it comes to long distance trips. The main reason is heat, or lack thereof. The side doors couldn't shut and a piece of rope had to hold them together. This allowed for -10 degree weather to float into a van where the heat barely did the driver any good. Red, Green and White rags (henceforth known as the Italian Flag) were stuffed in the cracks but they didn't help. The only thing that did was staying in sleeping bags the entire trip. As Laura Campbell commented, "It made me feel like I was going to the people's inaugura­tion." 
The Receptions 
How does one survive in D.C. over the inauguration without spending a cent for breakfast or lunch? Easy: go to every reception listed on the Schedule of Events (free at any Congressional office or Citgo dealership), say you're from a likely town in that state and enjoy the hospitality. Particularly refreshing were Strom Thur­mond's turkey sandwiches, Arkansas' ham, fried chicken and bourbon, New York's cider, apples and piano, California's champagne and John Brademas' donuts, tea and sterling silver utensils. The main rationale given for this sleazing was strictly hunger, although the bourbon tasted great. 
The Inauguration 
Although The Observer was given general p~ess passes for the parade and party, it didn't get any inaugural passes. These were procured by walking into any legislator's office you might know and 
people interviewed. Their good-faith pledged to the incoming president, they jumped up and down, again like children, while the new president walked home between them. 
In his inaugural address, Carter had stressed a "togetherness" theme. "Let us create a new national spirit of unity and trust," he beseeched the electorate. "A president may sense and proclaim that spirit,' • he added, •'but only a people can provide it.'' And it seemed, in the crowds, as if the people were helping to provide it overall, or at least here, even in a city described by The Washington Star as one 
•'bent on illusions.'' 
asking if they had any. Surprisingly, this method worked three times. Kudos to Vince Moschella for drawing first blood. The ceremony itself was surprisingly brief and simple, yet impressive. Perhaps Carter's finest moment came first, when he thanked Jerry Ford. He made several fine points, but his irregular phrasing cut down the strength of several comments. 
The Reception 
If sleazing into a reception is one thing, sneaking into a ball is another--especially when two people do it. What made this snmewhat amusing was how easy it was for t~e people who snuck in. Knowing full well that drinks ran for $2.00, the six Domers relied on invaluable experience from Notre Dame concerts and muck some Jack Daniels (Smooth #7) and Seagrams in via a purse. This immediately made the holder of the purse one of the more popular people in the Shoreham-Americana, for ten people followed her everywhere she went. 
This was not a bi-partisan ball. One of the few avowed Republicans in the place got his wallet ripped off. Tom O'Neil is still waiting for it in the mail. At the same time he lost his wallet, his executive etlitor was receiving a free bottle of Old Grandad. Has something to do with the right time and the right place, or partisan justice, I guess. 
Bigwigs 
Bigwigs were everywhere to be seen in Washington this week. Either holding. a reception or going to one, they were m evidence. Frank Church gave out donuts, Don Reigle looked like a rock star among groupies, Strom Thurmond talked about hoops, Dick Lugar explained the Senate bell system and George McGovern said "hi" and shook peoples' hands while in a bathroom. Wilbur Mills didn't say much at all. 
Jargon 

When receiving directions on how to get 
somewhere, reference was made to those 
"public institutions." We went past those 
public institutions so often, we expected to 
see Rubie Humphrey on the corner of 
Independence Avenue. 
Perhaps the best Washington jargon 
understandably came after going to the 
Arkansas food and bourbon reception. 
When pressed for a reason to justify our 
being there, one of us responded, ''To 
study that Federal Waste and Bureau­
cracy." Indeed. Federal Waste did occur 
in D.C. It occurred in the form of some 
good-natured partying (Damn, I wish we 
could've found Billy Carter). It nearly 
occurred running red lights to follow a lead 
car to a ball. It did occur at the ball. 
However, it was only a part ofthe trip. A 
lot was learned from what went on. 
However, the little things helped make the 
big event seem even better. The 

was well worth the trip. 
of a coronation? 



nazz 

Billy Adams (9-10) 
Bill Mahr ( 10-11) 
oming Wednesday 
John Steinman (9-11) BE THERE ''•• 
The Nazz will be open six nights a week, 8-12 Monday thru Thursday and 9-2 Friday and Saturday. The Nazz has been equipped with stereo equipment to provide continuous music courtesy of the Sound Room. . . The Nazz features food, drinks, lively conversation and lots of mellow mus1c. 
Future attractions--Feature Artist Nights Drama in the Nazz Album Hours Comedy The 2100 Club The Nazz Deli 



~*The Observer 
anindependent~udentnewspaper 
serving notre dame and st. mary's 
The Observer IS published by students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College It does not necessarily reflect the policies of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board Comnwntanes. opinions and letters are the views of their authors Column space is available to all members of the mmmunity. and letters are encouraged to promote the free exprt:>ss1on of varying opinions on campus. 
Business Manager Tom Fronczak Advertising Manager Mike Miller Photo Editor Tony Ch1fari Production Manager Marth'a L. Fanning 
Box Q, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556~ 
Phones: (219) 283-8661 [ND] 
P. 0. Box Q
(219) 284-5365 [SMC] 
EDITORIAL BOARD 

In Memory of 
Thomas O'Neif Editor-in-Chief Dan Sanchez Managing Editor Chris Smith Asst. Managing Ed. 

Dean Pedtke 
Cregg Bangs Executive Editor Val Zurblis Executive Editor 
Dear Editor: revealed even more fully his abid­Pat Hanifin Editorial Editor 
ing desire to help and encourage; Bob Mader Exec. News Editor 
On December 12, Daniel H. his care·· surely grace, I believe, if Maureen Flynn Campus Editor 
Pedtke, Associate Professor Emer-anything can be labelled so. Marti Hogan St. Mary's Editor 
itus of Music, died suddenly at his He's gone now. but just as the Don Reimer Copy Editor 
home. Professor Pedtke had been trees on this campus have endured Tim O'Reiley Features Editor 
the director of the Glee Club for 35 ftong after their planter gathered 


years retiring in 1973. E t · th Cl b . h l' II f 

Fred Herbst Sports Editor 
n enng e u In t e a o ~ Tuesday, january 25, 1977 ~ 
~hat ye~r. I never had the opportun-Ity to ~tng under "~~an" Pedtke, 


Jimmy Carter Needs Your Support 
Jimmy Carter has been President Carter for six days. So far, he is off to a good start. He has won approval for what on the whole is a qualified Cabinet including several men with the governmental exper­ience needed to reach his new goals. Despite strong opposition, Carter has kept his promise to immediately pardon the Vietnam-era draft dodgers and resisters. 
One particularly welcome act was the new President's praise for his predecessor. 
Whatever one might think of Gerald Ford's presidential ability, it is undeniable that in his two years in office he did do much to "heal our land." 
Of course six days are a long way from four years. Carter's four predecessors also began with brave words and strong acts; they ended on much sadder notes. Carter faces challenges not susceptable to cam­paign rhetoric and stacatto inaugural addresses. It is easy to say, for instance, that "moral duties" are "invariably ... in our own best interest;" but it will be much more difficult to reconcile the claims of morality with national security in a world which, despite pious dreams, is still basically lawless and where many rulers see power as the only moral pnnciple. 
The new President is aware of the size of his job. In his inaugural address he recognized that he would err and asked the American people for their support. After years of war, division and scandal it is time we heeded his call: "So together in a 
spirit  of  individual  sacrifice  for  the  
common good,  we  must  simply do  our  
best."  ·  


Join the Fast Against Hunger 
Last year, nearly one thousand Notre Dame students participated in the Hunger Coalition's weekly Wednesday fast. By giving up their dinner these students participated in a symbolic gesture that more usefully provided money from the 
N.D. Food Service for the Coalition's cause. The Coalition received 75 cents for every meal that was missed, money used to contribute toward various programs of assistance to poverty victims both here and abroad. 
A number of students have in the past failed to support this program because they object either to the symbolism or to the size of the University's contribution ­which seemed much too small to be of any significance. In answer to these criticisms it must be noted that the importance of the drive, lies not in any symbolic "commu­ning" with the poor; rather it lies with the positive contribution that the money makes. 
The amount contributed by the Univer­sity is fair, given the economic reality of keeping the Dining Halls open for those students who do not fast. The Hunger Coalition is quite satisfied with the current 
program that gives them 75 cents per meal, when the student actually pays a little less than a dollar. The part Food Services keeps goes to operating the Dining Halls. 
Once the Coalition receives the money, they donate it to relief agencies such as CARE, UNICEF, Catholic Relief Services and South Bend's own Justice and Peace Center. The latter is the chief beneficiary, in that it receives 25 percent of the money from the Wednesday night fast for its volunteer social welfare programs in South Bend. These programs include: One on One Direct Aid, Bail Bond assistance, a Citizen's Energy Coalition, and a program investigating alternative correctional facil­ities and procedures for women. At first glance, these are not the types of projects that one would think the Hunger Coalition would forward money to, but they are useful projects, which deserve a measure of support. 
This year's fasts begin tomorrow and the Hunger Coalition has hopes that student participation will be at least as high as last year's. Given the validity of the programs that they support, and the ideals they represent, we urge you to support the drive. 
but I d1d have the pr1vlleg~ to get to 
know the man, .somethmg now 
unforthunately demed to those who 
come ere.
N t D 'd . If h 
~ re a~e pn es .1tse on t e 
quality of It~ ~eachtng. Ev.en t~roul?h my hf!1Ited contact With him, It was evident Dean was a complete teacher. Much more than 
simply a leader of music, Professor Pedtke brought to all who knew him a warm enthusiasm for life and a vision for beauty in simple things. We who are in the Club now were familiar with Dean's reputation, but the anecdotes traded by alumni during the week of his funeral 
pect of the Hall Director's role. 

his tools and headed home, the Glee Club continues to prosper as it 
has since his retirement. In May when the events of four years membership fade and blend with the tradition of the Club, my classmates and I will become contributors to a history of song d d · p d k d 'f 
an comra ene e t e nurture 1 
:lid not seed. 
In a year or so Washington Hall s scheduled for renovation. I vould like to nominate "Petltke 
'lall" t: th 1 
. . a.s a new name or e pace where he directed so many con­certs. This is perhaps one small way Notre Dame can remember a much loved and very loving son. 
Paul S. Fisher '77 President, Glee Club 

Rice Explains Student Affairs Changes 
Dear Editor: 
The basic goal of the Student Affairs department is to meet students' needs simply and direct­ly. The achievement of this goal depends upon systematic student in-put in the assessment of student needs and the development of programs to meet those needs. 
Further, the effectiveness of our work depends upon a mutual under­standing among Student Affairs departments of their distinct, but related functions, easy communica­tion among these departments and between them and the faculty as well as students, and upon the presence of professional Student Personnel workers in the Residence Halls. 
We have the basic ingredi­ents for the development of a strong and responsive Student Affairs Department and there is always, and certainly, room for improvement. For example, in the next few weeks the members of Student Affairs, and this includes Campus Ministry and Financial Aid, will be examining our goals and the way in which we assess and attempt to meet student needs. Also, during this semester we will be asking students, faculty, and other administrators for advice and evaluation. 

This term we will experiment with ways in which we can manage their time so that the hall directors will be more dominant and integral members of the College staff. 
One final example, most of us know the value and impact of peers helping peers--students working in the Writing Clinic and the Resident Advisors attest to this fact. We want to take a good idea and expand upon it to include a few areas other than the residence halls such as Career Development, and to give commuters the opportunity to apply for such positions. In order to do this we thought we would .have to change the name from Resident Advisors to Peer Advisors. 
However, the other night when we presented an over­view to the veteran Resident Advi­sors it became clear that a change in the name implied a drastic change in function. We'll worry about the name later, but for now I would like to take this opportunity to clarify what will and will not happen to the Resident Advisor Program. 
First, the number of students working in the Residence Halls next year will not change appreci-
For another example, ably; and they will most likely be we all know that the Residence assigned to sections as they are Halls offer exceptional opportuni-now. Second, the RA's will be ties for working informally with trained (depending on their inter­students as they discover their ests) in career-and academic-coun­interests, clarify their values, and seling. resolve personal problems. We have talented and able Residence The way in which they Hall Directors who deal with these .receive training will be determined opportunities every day (and every 'this semester in consultation with night). What we want to do is the Academic-and Career-counsel­strengthen and articulate that as-ing personnel. Third, this semes­
8 WHAT HAS HAPPtN£0 TO THIS FORMERBEfORE I ;rum !HE DISCIJSSION 
Sl/PCI<LATIV£7 ITIS USW llJOAYtl/fTH
OV£1< 7D MY (])t.L£AGUE5, I'!J
0 
OUTOISCI?£T!ON! RJR EXAMPL.£, OF TJ.IE
liKE 7D RA15& MY VOICE IN Pf<f}­
z 
90-000 GOE915 ON lASTS&ASON:S
; 7E5T OV£1?. 7JI£ O£VAWATION OF
m 
HOPJAJ(J) COSEU SHO~
A FAVO~ /)/()!(f); .
(/)· 
83 /)}E.f<E /NTR/){}()C£0
·'SUP&t<STAR."t .
OJ 
A5 !JU~'l::K~>IAfo~
c 
JJ 
-< 
·_.\·-..-..··L~~~~~"':""':'':'":'":"":"":"":"":'~ 

----------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Y&5. 1 MOV& II 

W& 5TAI<T FROM 
5CRATOI-0NlY 808 R&DFORJJ' AH, '£/1
\ TH£ ,. 11 I<.1 BAf1CS 1 HE(IR' 
I 
'" 
!l 
(j) 
Q)'
..,
.., 
'< 
~ 
c: 
a. 
m 
c: 
SMC Deuiof S~dentAftalrli.' 

....;.,........~ilil;,;;,;,i,ll,;/oili;,~~..lio:.lll--16oii........W.W.W...Iiiioi--.,... 
er we want to examine thoroughly the RA's role in discipline--this is a constant source of confusion and ambiguity. 
Fourth, the core-train­

ing program which is a two-credit 
psychology course is undergoing 
evaluation this year. As I see it, an 
important asnPct f'lf that evaluation 
will be the input from studems 
about what they actually learned 
and if and how it helped them in 
their role as REsident Advisor. 
In summary. things are happen­ing in the department of Student Affairs and int he next few weeks we will be asking a lot of people for their advice and consultation as we shape the direction for the future. 
Kathy Rice 

\,..;.;.:.:,._..,:;:;:_..:..;;..:..;;....;..:..;;..:..;;....;..:..;;.:..;,~.:..;,.:..;,.;..;..;...;..;..;..;..;....;..;.____ ..........,~!f' ..·',) ~·\ •..:A~ ..•'•./ ........ ~·' Ia,\ ........,............... 0 • ..~·~..•.~.~ ..~ ' 
~--.---------_--~-----, 
Tuesday, january 25, 1977 
the observer 
7 

Spring concert plans underway 

by John O'DonneU 

Plans are underway in an effort to bring popular rock groups to Notre Dame for the spring semes­ter, according to Jim Speier, concert commissioner of the Notre Dame Student Union. Speier emphasized that Student Union is currently working on obtaining "solid attractions", but due to restrictions of the Sunshine and Pacific co-promoters, names of particular groups cannot be re­vealed yet. 
America, who cancelled their performance last fall and recently cancelled their scheduled perfor­mance for this spring, promised to make amends for these cancella­tions next fall. Bruce Springsteen, who performed this fall, is repor­tedly planning another visit to the Athletic and Convocation Center next fall. 
Overall, Speier was "quite 
pleased" with the results from the 
concerts last semester. "The 
concerts were good shows," Speier 
explained, ''and on the wh ole we 
came out financially successful. 
Although the finances were not 
Dean Rice reorganizes Student Affairs 
by Marti Hogan 
St. Mary's Editor 

''Things are happening in the department of Student Affairs,'' stated Kathleen Rice, dean of Student Affairs, in an announce­ment released yesterday. Pro­posed changes include increased involvement of hall directors as well as Campus Ministry and Financial Aid in Student Affairs and the expansion of the Resident Advisor Program. The announce­ment is printed in full on page 6 of today's Observer. 
''All departments of Student Affairs will be trying to determine common goals and to find a way that we can achieve these goals," Rice elaborated. 
The first goal of the department is ''to raise the professional impact" of the hall directors. "We hope to free them from desk work to make them a more integral part of Student Affairs,'' she said. "We'll be coming up with ways to do that this semester." 
Rice also commented on the 
proposed expansion of the R.A. 
program. "Making the change in 
the name from Resident Advisor 
to Peer Advisor was a 

mistake," she stated, "because to 
many it implies a drastic change in 
function." She repeated that this 
expansion is designed to add to "a good program," not detract from it. "It works well in the halls, and it can be expanded to include other areas as well." 
Financial Aid and Campus Min­istry will also be included in the reorganizational plans. "I don't think people are aware that these departments are part of Student Affairs," Rice said. "We plan to better integrate them into the department.'' 
Following the Student Affairs department evaluation, President John M. Duggan will appoint an ad hoc committee to discuss future directions of Student Affairs. This committee will be composed of faculty, administration and stu­dents. 
"Students will be an important part of this committee," Rice explained. "It's important to have everyone looking at Student Affairs because we want the college to know everyone has input,'' she added. 
An advisory committee from the entire campus and the R.A. Steering and Grievance Committee will give input into the ad hoc committee as well. "Students will 
Faculty or Student Reps·

SellSummer
Tours 
LOWEST possible air fares LOWEST possible rail fares LOWEST possible accommodation rates HIGHEST possible commissions! 
toEUROPE 0 
Call toll free (800) 225-4580, Ask for Dom Messina Or write, HOLIDAIR STUDENT TOURS 1505 Commonwealth Ave.,Boston,MA 02135 

1~--------~-~~-----------,
Llassijied Ads \ 
NOTICES FOR RENT . 
I
I 
I 
TYPING-35 cents a page Call Dan 
· 

272-5549.
1Ac~u-;:~;t;;t;;tt.;i~-:-;-;;,Oonoho I ~~~~:___~~r:_~a~~~ pm 
I 
Quality, Licensed Day Care_ infants one and two year olds. First United 
I 
Methodist Day Care, Inc., 333 North Main St., SB. Mondays -Fridays, 
6:30 am -5:30 pm. Call 288-1168. 
I 
1AN TOSTAL ORGANIZATIONAL MEETING. TUESDAY, JAN. 25 
LAFORTUNE BALLROOM 9:00pm 
l 
is your life empty? Order the Chicago Tribune. Call 8670. 1-------------­
Used Books. Book Barn. 1 mile 
10
-
no_rth_o_fN_o_tre_D_am_e_._'!!~552 . 
ATTENTION! CILA summer pro-I jects are coming. Applications maybe picked up in the Volunteer I 
Service Office in Lafortune. For further information call. Mark at I 
~~~~~~~~t_2~~--­
Need typing? Professional TypingI Service -top quality -convenient location 232-0898.
1MORRISSEYLOAN-FUND."S20 ­
150. 1 day wait. 1 percent interest.1Due in 30 days. LaFortune Base­15 12 15
I 
ment. M-F 11: -: · 
~~~~~~~~~N-C~SES 
l 
start i=eb. _ Beginning and
7 

advanced sewing, knits, tailoring, draperies and Home Accessories. 
• FEE $'1.50 -12 weeks at one night 
-per week. Registration forms in 

Observer office or phone: 288-1261 er, Garrard ~umtable, Dyn!'l pha~e ME• 
ADULT EDUCATION DEPT. South speakers. Ask.ng$375. For1nfo B11t -----------­
t(iend Commun\t¥ ~ch~ls ... , .. .~:!:__ _____:______.__ · -·-·--:' ·
,"--'--'------------------------·---·­
Need one Housemate. Own bed­
1 t $50 1 · 
0

room, c ose campus. pus
utilities. 287-2702. 
~~o~:_~~~~_:_~~~~:_­
LOST -large tan leather purse Friday night on 8th Flanner. Please return. All contents are desperately needed and some things are irrepla­ceable. Call Pat McMahon 4-5476 or 
4-4165. 
LOST: NICKEL PLATED FOUN­
TAIN PE.N BETWEEN FARLEY, MEM. LIBRARY AND OSHAG. 
CALL MAUREEN 6825 or 1715. 
--~----------­
Found: Sunglasses outside Flanner Dec. 18. Call Petz 6970. 
wANTED 

Summer in Europe. Student sales 
representative for European flights needed part-time. earn flight plusextra$. Send qualifications with job and personal references to: Jim Moldane 919 Fernview Dr., St. 
~~~~~~~~:________ 
FORSALE 

skis, hart freestyle, 195 em., excel­lent condition, call 277-3762 nites til 
~i~~~:__________ 
Stereo for sale _ brand new and 
. 

never been played. Marantz recelv-
For Sale -Head 360 skrs, 68 inches long. . Solo_mon bind!ngs. $85. 
I 
Human1c skr boots. Srze 7 $25.
Excellent condition. Kathr·e 287­
I 
~~:_____________ · 
AUDIO OUTLET: top name stereo I equipment wholesale. Call 283-1181 -------------I PERSONALS 
I 
Where were you May 16, 1975? For more information call: 8959. 
I 
---------------' Need a friend? ND-SMC Hotline I 
· ht4 4311
-open nrg s. Ge-;;ld&"M--;;-r=;"Je:;;;;-e-;--­

I 
Things are fine. The trip was uneventful. More news will follow. 
W ayward Son 

1 
Fred _ I 1 hear you are crazy about me. Maybe 1 can turn a few cartwheels 
for you some time. _____2~":._ ________ sINGLE, Try Matchmaker for a new way of meeting other singles. Write 
P.O. Box 214, Mishawaka, Ind. Enclose a stamped envelope. 
Good Ship, Hippo, Birdie, Two ewes Hippo, Birdie, Two ewes 
Hippo, Birdie, Deer, LA.D.Y. 
Hippo, Birdie, Two ewes 

____!~~r::t~~-----Punkin_ So far,_ so good. I'm looking .forward to a super semester. How about you?? Do you know a guy
named Charlie? 

steady ($1400 was lost on the Springsteen concert), we were able to make a couple thousand dollars as an aggregate sum." 
Student Union is allowed to pick four possible concert dates per semester and three tentative con­cert dates for this semester are February 28, March 25, and April 
23. Scheduling concerts is often coincidental to such events as home football games and An-Tostal week-end. 
What is the possibility of the well-known rock stars, such as Elton John and Peter Frampton, visiting the A.C.C in the near future? As Speier noted, the management of these performers strives to play at the biggest arenas of the larger cities in order to maximize profit. "It seems unlike­ly for the management to pick the 
A.C.C. as one of their major stops." Speier said, "but it is not out of the question. Notre Dame is one of the best concert schools in the country, and we have been able to attract Elton John in the past." 
Speier also explained that con­certs which will be held next fall must be chosen in the spring. This 
be on every committee," Rice emphasized. 
"We want better cooperation between the faculty and Student Affairs," she continued, "and systematic student feedback will build into that." However, "it's really in the planning stages now. We must evaluate and integrate Student Affairs first," she con­cluded. 
action may invariably lead to cancellations and other "unfore­seen disappointments", but Speier commented that ''the material booked is the best available." 
"We can't call a magic number and buy an act,'' Speier said. "Students may sometimes com­plain about the quality of perfor­mers when superstars seem attain­able, but once an act is booked, it is not proper to 'bump' it." 
0TALENT ~~-1 I SEARCH '77 ~ 
g? 
~ ~ ~ 
lfl 
ffi 
;;:_j o. 
~ 
:'i 
"' 
lfl 
f-
u 
<( 
>­
>-­
_j 
<( 
u 
UJ 
o._ 
lfl 
lfl I­
~ 
z 

We'd Like To Discover You' 
a;

Tech lnterv1PVV~ 1 00, Aucl1t1rii'L .· 
:JJ J> 
COLUMPJS AREA-SU~ FEB · (f. 
(f)
SHERI, TO~ t,IOTOR IN~ liORTH QO
RT 1&1 I i!-COLUfiBUS 
~ 
CINCINNA II AREA -'ION f Eo 
z
rERRACE HILTON 0 l)W SIXTHS! -CINCINNAT_I 
~ 
J>
INDIANAPOLIS AREA-lUES fEB · -< 
STOUffERS INDIANAPOLIS rrir, en 
:n
2820 N MERIDAN -INDIANAPOLI; (f) 
SOUTH BEND ARlA-WED FEB · SHERATON MOTOR I~N 423 N MICHIGAN ST -SOUTH BEND 
0 
0 
r 
ALSO AT CEDAR POINT en 
:n
SAT FEB >SUN FEB 13 (f) 
FOR OTHER AUDITION SITES 
AND FURTHER INFORMATION 
s 
J>
CONTACT 
G'l LIVE ENTERTAINMENT DEPT. n CEDAR POINT. INC l> 
z
SANDUSKY. OHIO 44870 (f) 419-626-0830 

(Open only to registered college students 
G'l 

~~~~ 
LsiNGERS ~MUSICIANS TECHNICIANsJ 
~················~·~:-··········~ 
: KARATE CLUB DEMO : : Tonight 7:30 :
i Washington Hall i 
: Includes :
• 
: Board breaking •: 
: Sword Nunchakw : :, Self-defense Katac (Forms) :
•
................................ •
~ 

HELP WANTED!!! 
The Observer is looking for 
ONE good Junior 
. .. who wants some excellent experience and extra beer money 
working part time as an ad salesperson. Call Mike at 7471 
the observer Tuesday, january 25, 1977
8 ---______ _c_-=-_:_________________ 
Walsh leadspuckster's resurgence 
win... -~~ 
r·


by Gregory Solman Sports Writer 

When Notre Dame's "number 16" cruises through the middle, you know there's going to be plenty of fireworks. And when the Irish 
· bl h k h 

co-captam asts t e puc past t e
goal tender, one other thing is 
inevitable: the roar of the crowd at the ACC will contain at least a certain percentage of people yell­ing-"Dukie, Dukie." And for Brian "Dukie" Walsh, this year has been something to yell about. 
The stocky Irish center has been rewriting the record books of late. Breaking Eddie Bumbacco's career hat trick record with his eighth against Michigan State was the most recent accomplishment of the popular senior from Cambridge, Massachusetts. However, one record does not a player make, and Walsh has illustrated his consistent scoring prowess on the ice by leading the Irish in scoring for the last two years. This year, not 
surprisingly, he is ahead again, but for Dukie Walsh, that doesn't seem to matter. What Dukie Walsh wants is a national championship. 
··If 1 was leading the league and breakingall ofthese records but we were in fifth place and losing, it wouldn't mean much," said Walsh, "but I can see myself as a 
positive part of the team by scoring while we're winning." 
And winning is what the Irish are doing right now. In fact, Walsh thinks that this could be a very productive year for Notre Dame hockey, and that the near future will tell the season's story. 
"I think these next two series away are very, very crucial to us," commented the auburn-haired fireplug. ''If we can beat Colorado twice out there and go up to Minnesota and win twice there, or win three out of the four games, there will be no stopping us.'' 
For Walsh, or indeed any senior on the team. it would be a dream come true. But for Brian Walsh, the road was not always so smooth. In fact, Walsh commented that in his sophomore year, he was grate­ful to Coach Lefty Smith for letting him play. His scoring production was high for a sophomore (twenty­four goals and thirty-four assists for 58 points), but his highest figure was still his penalty minutes: 
Ray 0'Brien===:=:=:==========:=:::=========:=:=:======:=:=====:=========:=====:===:===:=:====:=================================================:====::==============:=======================:==:==============:=:=====:=:=====:====:================:===::::::=:::::=====:::::=:::::::=:::::::::=:=:::::::::=:::=:=:::=::::::====== 
Cager Controversy 
::::::·:::::::=:::=:=:===:::::=:=:====:=:===:==================::====::::::::=======================:=======:=:=:=====:::::::=====:=:=:===:===:=:=====:=:===============:=:===:::::===========:=:=:===========================================================:=========================================================================== ND today 
a total of91 by the end ofthe year.According to Walsh, this had been a constant plague of his career as long as he could remember. Walsh had good words to say 
about his old high school coach Marty Pierce, who, according to Walsh, "helped me to control my
emotions." In his own words, he 
collected many retaliatory penalties due to his being "a little on the wild side." Now, Dukie Walsh has settle for scoring goals wildly. 
Even if the Irish shouldn't win thi!! year, Dukie Walsh looks to have a good future ahead of him. Drafted already by the New Englan:d Whalers, and with his college rights in the National Hockey League owned by the Montreal Canadians, Dukie is look­ing forward to a pro career with great anticipation. But to Walsh that seems a Iong way off. Thts. could be his biggest year in college hockey. 
Centering Allen Karsnia and Greg Meredith this year has been a change for Walsh, who once played with Alex Pirus (now with the Minnesota North Stars) and senior Clark Hamilton on what was then one of the most productive lines in 
the WCHA. The two lines are so different, in fact, Walsh could not even draw many parallels between them. 
"We play a totally different style," commented Walsh. "Alex and Clark were two big boys, and we could place either in the slotO because we were all former centers at one time, we could rotate into the center position." 
The contrast of the lines lies in Walsh's responsibility to stay in the slot now, because Meredith and Karsnia's jobs are in the corners. 
Walsh, who came to Notre Dame as a defenseman, was converted to the position after an injury to two centers. Although at first he didn't like the transition, he is happy he made the change. What would make Dukie happier would be an Irish title this winter. 
"We definitely have the atti­tude," boasted Walsh. "We have to play the way we have been playing. We have to make sure that we don't come out stale on any given night. We have to make sure that we have that same intensity and to make sure that we have that mental awareness that it takes to 
Nobody expected too much of this year's basketball team. Everyone 
planned on a winning season because winning seasons are taken for 
granted at Notre Dame. But what more could you ask of a team that lost a 
player that could be relied on for 30 points a game day in and day out. 
With the loss of two freshmen that were to be the starters of the future 
no one could blame Digger for not getting together a team that would rival 
the nation's best. But this year's team surprised us on November 27th by 
beating Maryland, the "UCLA of the East". 
Still the Irish fans were skeptical until December 11th when Phelps' 
phenoms did the unthinkable by beating UCLA of the West in Pauley 
Pavillion. Now Notre Dame fans could not help but get their hopes up. 
E,·en the \\Titers became believers ranking the Irish second in the nation. 
It !>eerned the Notre Dame followers had a winner. Students went horne 
not worrying about their exams but happy to know that their basketball 
team was the best. 
How all this success carne about did not matter because the record stood 
seven v.ms and no losses. And then their bubble burst and the team lost to 
Kentucky, Princeton. Villanova. and Marquette. 
Stone hill got here just in the nick of time to stop the nightmare at four .~ames. Then UCLA carne back and got the Irish fans hopes up again until it all slipped away inthe last two minutes. Now everyone is walking around asking each other what happened, and I think some of the players themselves would like to know. A look a the statistics explains some-of the causes. 
It all really started against Indiana when Dice Martin went to the floor holding his ankle. It was the last time the Irish would see their quarterback in uniform. Some people felt the cagers could survive the loss since Dice was only averaging six points per game and Freshman Rich Branning was playing like a seasoned veteran. 
After the 89-48 trouncing of Vermont these analysts seemed correct. But it became obvious that Phelps' floor leader was missing when the hot shooting Wildcats of Kentucky put an end ot Notre Dame's undefeated season. The turnovers totaled 24 in that game -a new season high. The new record didn't last long as the Irish turned the ball over 26 times against Princeton and Villanova. 
More than that the team was just standing around. ·Soon shooting percentages plummeted. The loss of Burce Flowers for the Princeton and Villanova games compounded the problem. The lack of depth put the pressure on the starters and this intangible factor began to show up in the statistics. 
Walsh tagged attitude problems as the reason for the Irish slow start this year, when they lost four of their first five games. 
"We weren't in the habit of winning," said Walsh. "Then we beat Michigan in overtime, and 
that seemed to be a turning point in 
our season. Now we have the momentum going. Now the young­er kids have caught on. They've got the feeling now. The seniors and juniors are leading the way. We haye got great. leaders on our team, hke Brownshtdle and Clarke. 
A lot of guys don't lead by mouth, they lead b~ example." 
Walsh satd that for the last two ye~rs, the team had a . g?od attitude, but not a good wmmng a!titude; an a~titude. li~e the one dtspiayed agamst Mtchtg~n wh.en 
the Irtsh pulled from behmd wtth six seconds left and went on to win on a go~I. incidently, set up by Walsh htmself. "This year we're having a great 
· · · . 
, · 


"Dukie" Walsh battles for a face-off. 
[Photo by Paul Clevenger] time playing hockey," summarized And that's the kind of attitude Walsh, "We're playing well, and that should epitomize the college 
we're beating good teams." hockey experience. 
Grapplers prepare for John Carroll 
The Notre Dame wrestlers will carry a three-match winning streak with them this week as they travel to meet Division III power John Carroll. Coach Ray Sepeta's grapplers will be in action in Cleveland Saturday night against the Blue Streaks. 
Last week the Irish topped midwest rival Marquette by a 24-12 count and added two victories over Millikin (31-8) and Wabash (34-11) to run their season's mark to 6-3. Mike Padden (167) continued his winning ways with three decisions and now boasts a 12-1 record on the year. Rob Dreger (177) also came up with three wins and stands at 10-4. Cocaptain Pat McKillen registered a pin and a superior decision along with a well-contested draw and is now 9-3-1. 
In Saturday's double-dual with Wabash and Millikin, Ray Sepeta unveiled another strong heavy­weight for the Irish. Freshman footballer Scott Zettek notched a pin and a 6-0 decision in his Irish wrestling debut, filling in for the injured Bob Golic, last year's Irish representative at the NCAA championships. Golic, who hails from Cleveland, is a probable Leading the charge is AI Evangel­starter for the Irish against John ista, Division III champ at 158 last Carroll. year and eighth in the nationals. 
In John Carroll the Irish will be Brad Bowman at 177, like Evangel­meeting one of the ·toughest ista, was named to the Division II wrestling teams in the country. All-America squad last year as was Runners-up in the NCAA Division Kevin Hinkel (190), indicative of III championships last year, they the strength of Coach Tony are strong at every weight. DeCarlo's squad. 
Women cagers down IUPU 
by Chuck Dressman 
Sports Writer 
Returning to the hardcourt after a 33-day layoff, the Notre Dame women's basketball team overcame some rusty play and poor shooting to down Indiana University, Purdue University at Fort Wayne 52-44, upping their record to 3-1. 
The victory should have been an easy one for the Irish since they totally outplayed the visitors and managed to take 22 more shots from the field. The Irish women, however, seemed content to play the role of a friendly host as they converted on only 29 percent of their attempts, allowing IUPU to 

The hot hand of Duck Williams, whose shooting percent was .542 after the first seven wins, dropped to .469 after the next six games. Duck's average dropped two and a half points per game. Rich Branning played more and scored less as his average fell two points a game. Having to start every game was a whole new role for Rich and there was no leisure time for adjustment. 
Branning did everything that could have been asked under the circumstances but still the inexperience showed up. In the first seven games he had II turnovers while in the last six he accumulated 28 more. Dave Batton went cold. But perhaps the most noticeable cold spell was that of Bill Paterno. The guy they called the "Apple'' who once had one of the softest touches around and was good for at least a couple of twenty footers a game dropped from a .439 shooting percent to an abysmal .393 field goal percentage. 
Single player statistics do not really begin to tell the story. A loss is never the fault of a single player or coach, but of the team . The team as a whole shot three percentage points lower. In the first seven games the team had 279 rebounds. In the next six they totaled only 228 rebounds. The turnover totals increased by almost four a game. The fundamentals were obviously lacking . 
Statistics tell you what happened but they don't tell you why things happened. Surely the loss of Martin played an integral part in the teams lack of success. However, the main problem seems to be a loss in confidence. The shot that Williams use to take from the corner as if he had radar, he hesitated in taking against UCLA. A player does not just lose a shooting touch he has been developing for 15 years. 
Paterno would not shoot from as close as ten feet away in Sunday's game. Last year they could rely on Dantley. This year they carne out as a close knit unit with everyone contributing and shocked the college basketball world. More than ever before, this year's squad wins or loses as a team. Until that confidence comes back it will be a rough season. 
No one expected much in the beginning of the year so maybe they should not expect so much now. The team did not give up on their fans that were writing them off, so why should the fans act any differently. If the problem is just confidence, as it seems to be, than with a coach like Digger Phelps around that should be a surmountable problem. With games like South Carolina, LaSalle, San Francisco and DePaul still ahead for the Irish, Phelps promises an NCAA bid. I'm not one to disagree with him. When March rolls around the Irish should be back to the form that brought our hopes so high. 
stay close throughout the contest. 
Irish head coach Sally Duffy recognized her team's deficiencies yet still seemed please with the women's performance. "I was really happy to win this game,'· commented Duffy. "Sure, we shot poorly and played sloppily at times, but that's to be expected after such a long break. We will just have to be patient with our timing and shooting, and hope that they will improve as we play more together.'' 
The first half was closely con­tested with each side having the lead several times. Midwav through the period, IUPU enjoyed~ 
13-10  margin  over  the  cold  
shooting  Irish.  Then  the  horne  
team  caught  fire  and  reeled  off  

eight unanswered points to go on top 18-13. 
The spurt was highlighted by the timely offensive and defensive play of Maureen "Mo" Maloney and the shooting of Carol Lally, the game's high scorer. IUPU fought back, however, and the half ended with the Irish women clinging to a shaky 21-19 lead. 
The second half followed the same pattern as the initial period. IUPU, sparked by the play of Linda Rehrn and Janice Forst, forged ahead 33-30 with eight minutes to play. 
Another Irish surge, again led by Maloney's clutch play, dashed any hope the visitors had for an upset. Maloney made three key steals and two buckets during the spree, while teammate Carola Cummings added six of her total ten points. When the smoke had cleared, the Irish sat comfortably upon a 42-33 lead. 
From that point on. the Irish played cautiously but IUPU could get no closer than six points. Lally continued her offensive display and Bonita Bradshaw dominated the backboards. limiting the losers to only one shot at the basket. The game ended with the Irish women victorious 52-44. 
"Carol, Maureen, and Carola all played well as they usually do,'' Coach Duffy stated, "but I think Bonita's play made the difference; I was very pleased with her performance. She really helped us get off on the right foot tonight." 
The ND scoring brigade was led by Lally with 16 markers, while Cummings and Maloney added 10 and 9 points, respectively. Janice Forst paced IUPU with 15 points. 







