Personnel Director an~ounces wage increase 



by Diane WUson consid~ration for several months,Senior Staff Reporter according to Bull. The announce­ment was moved up by a few days, Notre Dame will implement he explained, because of University increases in wages and fringe President Fr. Theodore Res­benefits for non-academic staff burgh's letter to Notre Dame Director of Personnel G. Thomas students and faculty which reveal­Bull announced yesterday. ed that an announcement on wage 
The increases include a total and benefit increases would be raise of 45 cents an hour in forthcoming. adjustments to go into effect over 
Bull indicated that the changes
the next two years. In addition, "meet with several substantial 
next July the University will contri­employee needs." He added that 
bute $25 to health insurance and he believed the groundskeepersimprove the sick leave plan, both would be satisfied with the pro­for hourly employees. 
gram.
Salaried employees will receive Bull did not have the exact costincreases in health insurance sub­figure of the plan but he remarkedsidies and improvements in sick that the "price would be substan­leave policy as of next January. 
tial." . The increases will be anTheir salaries will be adjusted in element of the $650,000 possibleJuly at a still undetermined rate of budget deficit the University pro­increase. 
jects for next year, he said.
Bull stated that the changes were being instituted ''in response to the Bull noted that the improve­overall needs of the University's ments should make the University non-academic employees, as well more competitive withing the labor as to meet the needs of the market. The director and his staff University in personnel recruit­met yesterday with the affected ment and retention." employees to brief them on the 
The changes have been under program. 
New parietals proposed 
by Jean Powley cuss the proposal and ''undoubt­St. Mary's Editor edly pass it,'' she explained. 
Next it will be taken to theSt. Mary's Student Assembly Student Affairs Committee where it last night directed Student Body should receive its greatest scrutini­President Mary Rukavina to form­zation, Rukavina stated. chairedulate a proposal for extended by Rice, the committee is com­Friday and Saturday parietals until prised of Director of Studentactivi­2 a.m. and Sunday parietals until ties Mary Laverty, two faculty10 p.m. The proposal should be representatives and seven stu­completed and resubmitted for the dents. •assembly's approval immediately 
after October break. The final step is to the Student Affairs Council, chaired by Dug­
"In the past, there have been gan. The council is the highestproblems with the distribution and board that a student proposal mayreturn of surveys on the parie:tals reach. It will make a recom­issue. I hope, however, to elimi­mendation to Duggan.
nate that whole process. When Dr. 
"I am confident that we can getDuggan carne here three years ago, it through the actual groundwork. 
he just extended parietals from 10 The real test will come when itto midnight on weekends. There reaches Duggan's desk," Rukavinawas no fuss. That's what I propose explained. "I don't expect to haveto do this time," Rukavina told The to take this proposal to the Board of 

Observer. BONN,West Germany [AP]-West aboard a hijaced Air France jetliner Schleyer, a West German industri­
Regents at all, except as a matter German ;:omrnandoes stormed a by pro-Palestinian terrorists. The alist, whose abductors had threat­When she told Duggan her idea of information.'' 

hijacked Lufthansa jetliner at So­

Israeli soldiers boarded three air-. ened to kill him Sunday unless the to extend parietals, he reportedly If the proposal is approved, it malia's Mogadishu airport, res­planes and flew from Tel Aviv to West German government agreedagreed that it was worth merit's will take effect on an experimental cued all 86 hostages aboard and Uganda for their secrecy-shrouded to meet the hijackers' demands. 
discussion." Dean of Student basis next semester. The question killed all four hijackers, a govern-. nighttime ambush on July 4, 1976. In Washington, President CarterAffairs Kathleen Rice offered to of parietals desk duty for the ment spokesman said early today. The Germans attacked less than congratulated the West Germanassist heer in writing the formal additional hours will be settled if Spokesman Karl Boelling said two hours before the hijacker government for the "courage ofproposal, Rukavina said. 

and when the proposal is approved. one passenger was taken to a threatened to blow up the plane their decision" in staging the The proposal will go to Student Possible solutions, according to hospital "in a state of collapse" unless their demands were met. 
assault. 
Assembly at its Oct 31 meeting. Its Rukavina, would be giving and one German commando was 

One West German government "The job is finished," were the 22 voting members will then dis-[Continued on page 2] injured. Other passengers were official said he felt "relief, but first words Chancellor Helmut treated at the airport, but the 
tempered relief. We must remem­Schmidt heard from his chief aide 
extent of the injuries was not know. ber that the pilot was killed and Hans-Juergen Wischnewski, who 
The West German assault re­they still have Hanns Martin telephoned from Mogadishu to called the celebrated Entebbe raid Schleyer. We don't know what Bonn operations center 12:12 a.m.
Poison found in ND food 

when Israeli commandoes rescued happened to him.'' (7:12 p.m. EDT Monday) immedi­more than 100 hostages held There was no word on the fate of 
[Contlnued on page 2] 

------------------------------------------------------------------------, 
by Rosemary Mills Huddle have all been checked for 
'''' rw ~,,~r"··v·r Y~·,' "" ,.,.,.
Senior Staff Reporter the substance, and no further 
.. .. • ) p \ .} J • • ,., ' .. • . . ....• • 
traces of the chemical have been 
The Indiana State Police have detected. After its discovery in the been asked to investigate the North Dining Hall, all table dispen­discovery of a foreign substance in sers were cleaned thoroughly. a barrel of sugar in the North Although the barrel of sugar was Dining Hall last Friday. Director of obviously tampered with ·after · its Information Services, Richard arrival at the dining hall, Conklin Conklin, stated in a press release said that this does not mean that an that an employee discovered the employee is suspected. "We are caustic substance, which was later not set up with maximum security 
identified as "probably sodium in the dining hall,'' he said, adding hydroxide." Further investigation that campus security will probably revealed the substance in one increase its watchfullness. All sugar dispenser and one salt Food Service employees have been 
shaker. 
asked to be on the alert for signs of Sodium hydroxid is a white, tampering. brittle solid, used in making soap, Conklin did not know exactly 
rayon and paper. Conklin said that where in the dining hall the sodium the substance's characteristics hydroxide was found. ''The fortu­would be noticeably different from nate thing is that there has been no the fine granulated sugar. evidence of students coming into The Student Health Center has contact with it,'' he commented. not received any cases which could In addition to requesting the be related to the incident, accord­Indiana State Police to investigate, ing to Conklin. Sodium hydroxide University officials are arranging would cause burning of the :moutht for a private investigator, accord­
Senior Bar managers Jimmy Dunne and Rob tissues so that anyone who had ing to Conklin. Student who have 
Civitello supervise construction work on a new ingested the substance would information which might help the 
fence, whcih will enclose the lawn area around already be aware of it. investigation are asked to contact 
the Senior-Alumni Club. The fence was According to Conklin, the South security of Edmund Price, director 
necessary, under Indiana liquor law require-Dining Hall, Morris Inn and the of Food Services. 
. ments, to permit the consumption of beer on the 

----------------------------------------------~ 




Tuesday, October 18, 1977:._

the observer 

~News Briefs-------.....~ 



Hostages freed from hijacking 
~-::=::::::=====================:=::::::::World 
Transplant patient dies 
CAPE TOWN• South Africa -Doctors at Groote-Schuur Hospital here blamed circulatory failure for the death early yesterday of Benjamin Fortes, the first man ev~r to have.~ chimpanzee's heart grafted into his chest to back up hts own fathng heart. The Cape Town accountant, 59, lived for 31/l days with the "piggyback" heart beating beside his own. It was implanted in a four-hour operation Thursday night by a Groot Schuur surgical team headed by heart transplant pioneer Dr. Christiaan Barnard. 


French limit smoking 
PARIS -A new law went htto effect yesterday obligating the French to puff less in public or pay some of the stiffest antismoking fines in Europe. The rules bar smoking in elevators, post offices, banks, schools. government offices dealing with the public and any public plance frequented by those under 16. Violators may be fined from $8.25 to $16.50, according to where the outlaw smoker is 

t=::::=ca=ug=ht=.~~~=======:====:==== National 


Saccharin. ban suspended 
WASHINGTON -The House voted yesterday to suspend any federal saccharin ban for 18 months while at the same time ordering new tests on the benefits as well as the risks of the artificial sweetner. Unlike similar legislation passed by the Senate last month, the House would not require each bottle of diet soft drink or other porducts containing sacclilarin to bear a warning lable. Instead it requires the posting of warning signs in stores selling such products. 

Peanut butter art sells 
OWENSBORO, Ky. -Some say C.G. "Moose" Morehead's peanut butter-based painting is a nutty idea, but they hope it will spread. Morehead's artwork, complete with autograph from the nation's most famous peanut farmer, President Carter, gained 
national recognition last spring. On Saturday, it was sold at auction for $10,500 to Jean Ewell, representing 20 bidders who "wanted the painting to stay in Owensboro so that the whole community could profit by it.'' 


Weather 
Variable cloudiness, windy and cool with a 30 per cent chance of 
more light showers today with highs in the low to mid SO's. 
Decreasing cloudiness and cooler tonight with lows in the mid to 
upper 30's. Partly sunny and cool tomorrow with highs in the 
mid SO's 


~On Campus Today_-----.. 
12:15 pm  seminar, "kinetic studies of ozonation of carcino­gens & mutagens as monitored by biological assays," michael j. caulfield, nd dept. of microbi­ology, sponsored by microbiology dept., rm 102 galvin life science, open to public.  
3-5 pm  workshop, assertive training, suzanne student affairs conference room at smc.  dreson,  
4:30pm  seminar, "precambrian microfossils, macrofossils and stromalites," dr. john horodyski, nd, sponsored by nd biology dept., rm. 278, galvin life science, open to the public.  
6:30pm  talk, "writing a resume", karen o'neil, direct6r of the smc career development center, sponsored by the farley academic commission and wac, farley basement, open to the public.  
7 pm  meeting, bicycle club, basement of Iafortune, members welcome.  new  
7 pm  computer course, "introduction (tso)," rm. 115 ccmb.  to  time  sharing  
7pm  presentation, rome program presentation, moreau, public invited.  rm.  232  
7 pm  smc, student havican.  nurses  association  meeting,  rm  11  
7:30pm  dr. stephen meyers, ophthalmologist, guest speak­er, smc-sna meeting room 11 havican.  

7:30pm concert, nd orchestra informal concert for children, adrian bryttan, sponsored by nd music dept., washington hal!, open to the public. 
7:30pm lecture/discussion, "exodus," sponsored by smc religious studies, rm. 247 madeleva. 
7:30pm film, "the ancient tombs of japan," sponsored by dept. of mod. lang., international students lounge, basement of Iafortune, open to the public, free. 

8 pm meeting, dean waldman, college of sciences, sponsored by dillon hall academic commission, dillon chapel. 
9-11 pm performance, greg hull, guitar and vocals, nazz, basement of Iafortune. 
[Continued from page 1] 
ately after the attack was over, Boelling said. The passengers were expected to 
return to Frankfurt early this afternoon, he said. 
The only hostage reported killed in the 41/2 day hijack odyssey was the_ pilot, J uergen Schumann, 37, 
who was apparently shot by the hijackers during a stop in Aden, South Yemen. 
"All in all, it seems to have gone off relatively well," the West German government spokesman said. 
German radio reported that crack anti-terror specialists of the para­military Federal Border Guard's special "GSG-9" unit had stormed the plane under a cover of darkness and freed all 865 hostages. 
German television said the com­mandoes used special grenades that lack shrapnel but explode with a blinding flash and immobilize a 
person for several seconds. 
The Mogadishu raid ended a five-day siege by the fourarabic­speaking terrorists--two men and two women--who had killed the pilot, forced the Lufthansa 737 to land in Somalia and set a pre-dawn deadline for blowing up the plane with all the hostages aboard. 

The hostages were rescueo only 90 minutes beforee the 3:30 a.m. (8:30p.m. EDT Monday) deadline, 
the Bonn Spokesman said. 
New morning show on WSND 

WSND has a new multi-faceted morning show from 6:30 to 8 Monday through Friday, called AM THIS MORNING. AM brings the students the latest news, sports and weather, along with music and phone-in requests. Also, topics will be discussed dealing with campus, sports and current events. 
Hosting the shows will be Notre Dame and St. Mary's students. 

Parietals considered 

[Continued from page 1] 
students more parietal duty; hiring a part-time employee to receive ID's in each dorm; adding parietals duty to the desk clerks' responsi-; bilities; asking students to volun­teer their time; or hiring students through the financial aid office. 
"Hopefully we'll have a definite answer for the students by January on this issue," she concluded. 
*The Observer 
Night Editor: Leigh Tunakan Asst. Night Editor: Tracy Her­man Layout Staff: Margie 'saved the day' Brassil Editorial layout: Carmen Car­bone Features Layout: Dave O'Keefe Sports Layout: Greg Solman & "The Stallion" Typists: Gwen Coleman, Martha Fanning, Sue Scrib­ner, Mardi Nevin, Lisa DiVal­erio Night Controller: Mike Bodle Day Editor: Lynn Roberts, Kathleen Connelly Copy Readers: Honey McHugh, Tom Byrne Ad Layout: Debbie Westrope 

lPhotographer: Lisa Becker ) 
~ 
The Observer Is published Mon­d•y throutll Frkl•y except duringtJtam •nd vaa~tion ..-r~oc~s. Tl)e Observer Is published by the students of Notre Dame and S•lnt Mary's College. SubsCriptions m•y be purdlased lor no per year 
(51 0 per semester) from The Observer, P.n. Box Q, Non Dame, lndlen• 46556. Second class post... paid, Notre Deme, Indian•. 46556. 
. The Obaerver ts a nMmber of the Anodatld Press. All repro­duction ritlllts are reaervecl. 
fhe first indication that a com­when they heard-the news. Then mando raid was planned came from the phone rang. "my brother-in­an Israeli radi monitor who report­law answered and said she w'ls ed that a Boeing 707 ''mystery safe," said Mrs. Santiago's . 0 plane" of unknown nationality had year-old son, Tom, in Los angeles.
landed yesterday evening at Moga­Roman Catholoc bishops in Westdishu airport. A radio conversaion Germany called for special prayersbetween the pilot and Frankfurt for Schleyer and the hujack hos­indicated the plane carried a spe­tages, most of whom were German.
cial commando squad. Hostages' relatives and friends
In Bonn, Boelling said the plane stood outside West German Chan­carrying the elite troops made a cellor Helmut Schmidt's office,stopover in Crete before continuing seeking to urge him face-to-face to on to Somalia after dark. He said 
meet the hijackers' demands.
Greek authorities were told that the "Mr. Chancellor, I want my mom­plane was carrying medical and my back said a sign carried by 10 technical specialists. 
year-old Mike Brod, whose mother 
The hijackers, armed with plastic won a M~diterranean vacation in a explosives, sought the release of 11 beauty contest and was returning prisoners from West German jails to West Germany from Majorca and two Palestinians imprisoned in when the plane was hijacked Turkey as well as $15 million from Thursdav. the bonn government. 
Schmidt met with his crisis 
Schmidt's government let three advisers and conferred with Somali earlier deadlines pass without mak­President Siad Barre by telephone. ing any move to comply with the He received support from govern· hijackers demands, and Turkish ments in Western Europe and the officials indicated they would act United States for his efforts to end 
only if West Germany did. the hijack siege. The four terrorists had seived the 
The crew members and most Majorce-to-Frankfurt Lufthansa of the passengers were Germans. 
flight Thursday and comman­Many were returning from a deered the plane to the Horn of vacation on the Mediterranean Africa. 

island of Majorca when the planePassengers on board the hi­was hijacked. __ The unsched­jacked jet included two Americans­
uled flight took them to christine Maria Santiago, 44, of Kome, Larnaca in Cyprus,Bararein,Santee, California, and her 5-year­Dubai, Aden and Mogadishu.old son, Leo. Mrs. Santiago has a There were seven children and 31 

heart condition. Her family and women on the plane including at friends were at prayer last night least seven beauty queens. 
P•••••••••••••••••••••••-••••••••••••••••
I 
I 
I I Another lonely Weekend?
I 
I 
I


·---------------------------------------· 
Call St. Mary's Social Commission I I I
PARTY LINE 
I I I
Call to list you events with us, or call to Ifind out what's happening! I I I
4-5420' 
I 



By Rennard ckland, Admissions Committee of the College of Law of the University of Tulsa. Planning to apply to law school this year but know that the competi­tion's going to be rough? This book can help take much of the hassle out of gaining admission to law school. It gives you tips and guidelines on: where and when to sub­mit your application • scoring high on the LSAT • using letters of recommendation effectively • overcoming the 10 most common barriers to law school admission. and more. $4.95 paperback ~ 
By Dr. Marvin Fogel, Director of Admissions, The Mount Sinai School of Medicine, and Dr. Mort Walker. For the medical school candidate who wants every possible chance of getting into medical school, this is the book to have. It helps you: plot the ideal premed program • find out whether or not you belong in medical school • get through the admissions interview with flying colors • and more. $5.95 paperback 
At bookstores or write to: 

~HAWTHORN BOOKS 
260 Madison Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10016 



--~------------,·­
Tuesday, October 18, 1977 the observer 

3
due to-studenfappeaf 






Right to Life funds rescinded 
by Marti Hogan Editor-in-Chief · 

The Student Government Board of Commissioners decided last night to rescind its original $500 allotment to Right to Life as a result of an appeal made by senior Jim Maniace. In place of the allotment, Student Government plans to initiate a fund-raising campaign for Right to Life after 
October break. 
Student body President Dave Bender termed the decision a clarification rather than a reversal of the Right to Life objectives. "I intend to work toward the same objective of the Right to Life committee which is to protect the unborn,' 'Bender stated, adding that the board has endorsed his right to ·do so. 
Maniace, who requested the hearing, earlier had protested the allocation. to Bender. Bender informed him that it was within his rights to appeal the decision to the board if three of the commissioner agreed to the appeal, as it is stated in the by-laws. The three commis­sioners who agreed to call the hearing are Pet Tobben, student treasurer; Tom Soma, student body vice president; and Pet Haley, Student Life Council (SLC) chair­man. 
Calling on the board for "using improper judgement,'' Maniace remarked that the "issue at hand is not that abortion is right or wrong but that the board should not have used student money to fund such a politicial and controversial issue." 

Maniace claimed that the alloca­tion was an injustice to the students because it only prtesents one side of the ·issue. "Does the worth of any group's goals justify being the only group heard?" he asked. 
I 

Accompanying Maniace was Cecil Shaw, director of University Re­ferals Agency of the Legal Aid and 
Defenders Association. Shawspoke briefly comparing the Karen Quin­lan symposium held last year with Right to Life allocation. 
''The 'symposium was very balanced and it most definitely had a political theme," Shaw com­mented. He, along with the rest of the students present called for equal representation from both sides. 
Gary Luchini, SLC representa­tive and board member, pointed out that not opposing group applied for student government funding. "Both sides should be presented, but I don't know if it's student government's responsibility to go out and find it (the other side),'' he explained. 
Maniace held that at Notre Dame there isn't another group to present "the other side" and he was "not going to volunteer." He stated that he never questioned the board's intentions but that "some­thing unfair, something unbal­anced" emerged from its inten­tions. 
He concluded his presentation by saying, ''Basically the best thing to do is to keep public funds out of anything like this, but if you have to fund some political group it's incumbent to fund both sides.'' Maniace also maintained that the board should have denied Right to Life the request on the basis that there is not group on campus to 
present the other side. . 
Guidelines set 

Immediately following the meet­ing, the commissioners met for two hours before reaching a decision. Clarifying its actions the board issued guidelines which they fol-
Search committee for provost chosen 
by John Morrissey Staff Reporter 
A Provost Search Committee composed of five elected faculty members and one student was selected to ''receive and consider nominations for'' the position of University Provost at Friday's Aca­demic Council meeting, held at the Center for Continuing Education. 
The elected members are Rev. David C. Burrell, C.S.C., professor of philosophy nad chairman of the Department of Theology; Dr. Fred­ick J. Crosson, O'Hara Professor of Philosophy; Dr. Fernand Dutile, a professor at the Notre Dame Law School; Dr. J. Philip Gleason, professor of history; Dr. 0 Timothy O'Meara, Kenna Professor of Mat­hematics and Kenneth Ricci, stu­dent representative of the College of Business Administration and former Student Union director. 
''They handed out a list of all elected Academic Council mem­bers and those present voted for 10," Forenceanne Strigle, Student Government representative to the Council said. "On the second ballot, we voted for five out of the ten," she explained. 
Student member Ken Ricci was chosen, Strigle explained at a 

' "caucus of the students." Upon the caucus recommendation, Ricci was appointed. According to a press release, Rev. Theodore M. Hesbugh, Un­iversity president, met with the committee privately after the meet­ing. The provost is appointed by the Board of Trustees, upon recom­mendation by the president, to oversee all academic aspects of the University. The midsemester grade report-. ing for fresmen was approved in' other action taken by the council. Dr. Emil T. Jogman, dean of the Freshmen Year of Stdies, preseted. a list of statistics on the parental and student approval to the project, initiated at the beginnig of the 1976 academic year. The new rule requires that "a letter grade must be submitted to the registrat at the middle of each semester by the instructor for each freshman in his 
or her course." 
A new election procedure for Academic Council members was also passed. According to the minutes of the May 20, 1977 meeting, "Ex officio members of the Academic Counci and of the college councils may, if necessary, be represented by elected alter­nates. In both cases the substitutes have speaking but not voting priveleges. '' 
Tow positions were added to the Academic Manual. The position of Assistant Provost is now described as performing "such duties and exercise such authority as may be delegated by the Provost." The University Archivist is responsible according to the description,' 'for the collection and maintainance of the official records and papers of the University as well as other documents of enduring historical value.'' 
The 10 member executive com­[Continued on pa e 9] 

lowed in making its decision. The guidelines are as follows: 
1. Student Union--for the pur­

pose of providing student activi­ties 
2. 
HPC--for the purpose of making improvements on hall life. 

3. 
Clubs--for the purpose of club activities which are non-controver-• · J


... 

sial in nature. 
4. Student Government--for the purpose of addressing the needs of the students and promoting justice at Notre Dame and beyond. 
Bender explained that while the board intended to follow these guidelines, they were never written down until last night. By rescind­ing the money, the board is clarifying its actions according to 
the newly-written guidelines. We decided that the $8,00 allo­cated for clubs should go to clubs 
which are not controversial," 
Bender explained, "and Right to Life does not apply.'' 
The most offensive aspect of the As a result of student appeal, the Student Government 8~.:-of Commissioners decided to rescind its SSOO allotment to R11 t to
previous decision, according to 
life. [Photo by Lisa Becker] 
maniace, was the "holier-than­[Continoed on page 8] 

Security measures discussed 
by Ann Gales Senior Staff Reporter 

In an open letter to the Univer­sity community, Dean of Students James ·Roerner outlined steps that will be taken to improve campus security, addressing specifically the five-point proposal submitted by the Students for Campus Secur­ity (SCS) on Sept. 29. 
Roemer commented that the University agrees with concerned students that measures can be taken to "make this community an even safer place. Women have the right to insist that they be able to 
walk late  at  night  secure  in  the  
knowledge  that  they  will  not  be  
hurt," he stated.  

During this year and the two previous years, Roemer revealed, there have been four incidents involving rape, none of which occurred on the campus itself. One of the incidents involved a St. Mary's student who was attacked late at night near the Community Cemetery between the Notre Dame and St. Mary's campuses. Accord­ing to Roemer, ''An expenditure of $100,000 was made by the Univer­sity for a lighting system that covers that walkway area on Notre Dame property." 
. Each of the four rape incidents, as well as the ten. cases of assault and battery on women that have occurred on campus in the past three years, have been reported by the University to The Observer, Roemer said. ''The Observer has published every one of these reports including the exact lo­cations, the time of day, the nature of the assault and a general description of the criminal," he added. 
Roemer then commented on the five-points of the SCS proposal: 

Your Source for the Unusual in Diamonds and Precious Gems Platinum and Gold Jewelry 
You'll find untold treasures of the finest quality brought to you by the eye of an expert.* And sold with the care of a professional.* 
Insurance appraisals and purchases of fine diamonds and estate jewelry provided. 
·Graduate Gemolog1st Gemological lnst1tute of America ·Fellow Gemmologist: Gemmological Association of Great 8r1tam *BA Indiana University 
Lobby St. Joseph Bank Building South Bend, Indiana Telephone: 287-1427 
John M. Marshall's Your Source lor the Unusual 
.. 


~Jt.,
.•..-; 
~... 
-~­
'.•.:. 


fi1\ 
~· ,~ 
~ < 
_:.;c.:;J",,,v)' 
~ . -' '",.......,.,... 


education, lighting, communica­tions, transportation and security personnel. 
The rape prevention education pr0gram that has been used in the past includes meetings and films that are offered each year during orientation for incoming students. Roemer announced that this pro­gram will be extended to include graduate women, as recommended by the SCS. "The University will also prepare an additional media presentation that wilJ dramatize the 
problems and suggest measures that individuals can follow when they are confronted with these serious situations.'' 
"The University agrees that there are certain locations on campus where the lighting should be improved,'' Roemer stated. He reported that in more than 165 of the light fixtures on campus, mercury vapor lamps will be in­stalled to replace incandescent bulbs. This change will "roughly increase the lighting capacity of each fixture by a factor of four." 
New fixture to be added 

Roemer revealed that a light fixture will be installed immed­iately on the walkway from the Memorial Library to the Bulla Road 
intersection at Juniper. Also, an 
improved system for reporting and 
replacing burnt out bulbs has been 
developed by security and mainten· 
ance to alleviate the problem of 
burnt out bulbs discussed in the 
SCS proposal. 
Although these measures will improve campus lighting, Roemer announced that the University is appointing a committee that will include women, maintenance per­sonnel and representatives from the Architecture Department, to "survey the campus immediately after these improvements are mad*': to determine where additiona: lighting fixtures are required.'' Ar; order for additional light poh fixtures which require six month· for delivery bas already beer placed, since the committee b expected to recommend the insta; . 
lation of a number of new light standards, Roemer said. 
To the SCS proposal to institute a Whistle-Stop program on campus. Roemer reacted favorably. While he observed that the system would depend "upon the voluntary coop· eration of the people in the community," Roemer stated thai the University would support thf program. He urged Student Gov ernment to ''assess the need fc rsuch a program, should the) decide that it would be effective. 
''Security phone number stickers should be placed on telephone [Continued on page 9] 





United 
WOYatN.D. 


FINAL RESULTS 
rsonpercentHall 
. Alumni 
0.46 0.53 

42.1 135 
55.5 72 1.01 
Badin 
94.5 
221 2.00 

Breen-Alillips 
100 
71 1.73 

Carroll 
71.0 
309 0.34 

Cavanaugh 
34.3 
171

Dilon 
0.70

73.9 
181

Farley 
0.77

77.6 
413

Fisher 
1.20 0.73 

96.3 
228

Aanner 
72.6 
391

Grace 
1.15

98.3 
206

Holy Cross 
0.82

78.4 
144

.Howard 
0.93

67.7 
285

Keenan 
0.86

71.1 
251

Lewis 
1.01
239

Lyons 
76.4 
0.80
268

71.6
Morrissey 

•
)
0.98
213

71.5
Pangborn 
•
0.89
123

73.1
St. Ed's 
i.
0.78
130

76.0
Sorin 
0.74

71.1 
213 

'
Stanford 
0.62
112

61.5
'walsh 
0.61
153

58.9
Zahm 
• 
4606

70.0
TOTAL 

Tuesday, October 18, 1977
the observer 



Groundskeepers not satisfied 
by Bob l'arettonl assembled students and faculty 1 entanveJy scheduled by the union dues. 
Sen.lor Staff Reporter 

Groundskeepers are "not going to buy'' the pay raise for permanent University employees announced yesterday by director of Personnel Tem-e:.H, according to Jim Payton, 
spokesman for the grounds­keepers. 
''The 20 cent an hour pay raise we were offered today, it touched all our hearts," Payton said. "We daim the University can do a little ~etter. '· "We're going with the union all the way," he added. 
At a meeting last night in the Lafortune lounge, Payton also ._..ned for ''more moral support'' from University employees in other departments. Payton told the 175 members that after these em­
· ·t· 11 ·
I d out the 101 ta ayon
p oyees rea ab plans "it was like an atom bomb 
. ,,

dropped. They Ieft us hangmg.
"E th" k · 
veryone 10 s we are ~o~ng to go in there and ask for a mdhon 
bucks. We're not going to do that, we just want ~ur foot in the door," Payton s a 1d. 
Led by Ricardo Parra, director of the Midwest Council of La Raza, the people attending last night's meeting formed~ coalition commit­tee..The commt~ee met after the meetmg a~d de~tded to stage a demonstr.att~n Frtday at .the Center for Contmumg Educatton (CCE) from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m., during the 
Board of Trustees meeting. 
coalition committee is a student
h 

marc from the steps of the Administration Building to the 
CCE from 12-1 p.ril. The demon­
. .

strattOn wdl be an attempt to urgethe University to "recognize and 
respect the rights of all their workers to organize." 
Payton said that, as a result of Bull's announcement two of the 21 groundskeepers also'admitted that he deleted the I~st paragraph from Bull's speech from his translation. 
Th,is last paragraph contained Bull s recommendation that groundskeepers not join the union. Bull claimed that with the pay increase groundskeepers would save money by not having to pay 
Bugliosi discusses Manson 
by Dave Rombach Senior Staff Reporter 

Vincent Bigliosi, the former pro­secuting attorney who put Charles !Vtanson behind bars, spoke before an overflow crowd of about 600 people last night in Washington Hall. 
Speaking for almost two-and-a­half hours, Bugliosi touched on nearly all facets of the Manson case, ending his presentation with a question and answer session in which he discussed his investiga­tion of the assassination of Robert Kennedy. 
The Manson case, according to Bugliosi, has been the subject of eriduring popular interest because of its "bizarre" nature and its uniqueness among mass murders. Unlike other mass murderers, \(anson made others kill for him, a feat unprecedented in the annals of crime, Bugliosi said. 
Equally unique are the back­grounds of the killers. ''The compoc;ition of the 'family' is totally unexpected considering that they may have been involved in as many as 35 murders," Bugliosi said. With the exception of Susan Atkins. Manson's followers were generally from middle class wealthy families and had 'normal' backgrvunds. 
Manson's family ranged in age f..om 13 to 27 years old with a mean age of 20. Manson had as many as SO or 60 followers at one time, but only 24 were "hard-core" cuitists according to Bugliosi. Although Manson preferred to have men, the majority of his followers were young girls whose 
duties,  Bugliosi  said,  were  to  
procreate and  to  serve  the  men.  
Bugliosi  outlined  the  most  fa-·  

rr..ous Manson cases, the Tate and LaBianca murders. On the night of Aug. 8, 1969 four Manson cultists entered the home of Sharon Tate, brutally killing the pregnant ac­tress and several others, among them coffee heiress, Abigail Fol­ger. Manson remained at Spahn Ranch, site of the ''family'' com­mune during the killing. 
The next night, Aug. 9, Manson accompanied the group in a randon search for victims. After two unsuccessful murder attempts, Manson sent his followers into the home of Leno and Rosemary La Bianca. The LaBiancas were 'itabbed to death; Leno LaBianca was found with forks protruding from his neck and stomach and thej word ''war'' carved into his chest. Bugliosi said. 
One of the keys to the successful· prosecution of Manson, Bugliosi 
murder-one?" a student asked during the question period. "These murders wouldn't have taken place ifthe murderers hadn't wanteds to kill,'' Bugliosi asserted. ''The post-mortem wounds also indicate that they wanted to kill and 
that they enjoyed killing." Bug­Iiosi also cited psychological pro­files of the killers which described 
them as "murder-prone people." 
Manson used three methods to gain preternatural influence over his followers, according to Bugliosi. 
"Manson had an inherent ability to dominate people as Hitler did," Bugliosi said. "Manson respected and liked Hitler as the guy who 'levelled the Karma of the Jews.' " 
Bugliosi cited a "typical" example of Manson's influence,in which a man entered the Spahn Ranch with the intention of recovering his daughter and "dressing down" Manson, but instead, Bugliosi said, remained at Spahn Ranch for several months as a follower of 
Manson, eventually leaving with­out h1s daughter. 
The constant use of marijuana and LSD as controlled by Manson was also instrumental in the sub­jugation of the "family", Bugliosi 

VINCENT BUGLIOSI 

revealed. Manson would lead the family in commmunal LSD trips, always managing to take little or none of the drug and thus retain his mental faculties. People are more susceptible to control when under the influence of drugs Bugliosi said. 
The third way Manson in­tluenced his family according to Bugliosi, was through "constant sermonizing." "When one is ex­posed to the same ideas on a day-to-day basis, especially when no opposing view is offered, one begins eventually to assimilate those views,'' Bugliosi stated. Bugliosi added that the seclusion of Spahn Ranch and the general unrest of the sixties provided an excellent milieu for Manson's phil­sophy. 
RFK Assassination 

Bugliosi first became involved in the Kennedy assassination when he prepared the search warrant for the case of Sirhan Sirhan, the convicted murderer of RFK, on June 7, 1968, two days after the shooting. 
Inquiries into the case resumed in September 1975, when a Texas judge ordered a second test firing of Sirhan's gun by seven ballistics experts from around the country. The re-test was requested by Paul Schrae, an·associate of Kennedy, who was one of five people shot along with Kennedy Bugliosi re­vealed. 
The investigation suffered a setback when all seven ballistics experts declared there was no evidence of a second gun. ''The investigation was kept alive whn AI Lowenstein, Schrae's lawyer, asked that the experts be put on the witness stand," Bugliosi stated. 
None of the experts could say positively that all the bullets came from Sirhan's gun and only S of the 7 could positively state that at least three of the bullets came from Sirhan's gun. "The interesting thing is that the Los Angeles Police Department took the official posi-. tion that all eight positively came from Sirhan's gun," Buglioisi re­vealed. 
Other irregularities in the LAPD's investigation point to the e?Ciste.nce of nine or more bullets, a s1tuat10n which would necessitate a second gun since Sirhan's weapon 

contained  only  eight  rounds,  
Bugliosi stated.  
On  June  6  of  last  year  AI  

Lowenstein showed Bugliosi an Associated Press photo of two Los Angeles policement examining a doorjam in which, according to the caption, was the ninth bullet alleg­edly fired from Sirhan's eight­chambered weapon. Bugliosi, despite little cooperation from the LAPD, was able to identify the two officers. 
"I interviewed one of the police­men and he said there was indeed a bullet in the hole," Bugliosi re­vealed. "I have a written state­ment from him,'' he added. The second officer was also prepared to make a written statement when according to Bugliosi, he wa~ 
[Continued on page 9] 

revealed,  was convincing the juryl  
that Manson had total control overl the cult and that they would not have initiated the murders on their  KEN'S DEN  
own. Bugliosi stated that he had difficulty in getting former "family" members to provide con­crete examples of their subserv-,  --HAIR STYLING -­MEN & WOMEN  
ience in court. f Claiming that Manson controlled1l  ACROSS FROM 100 CENTER  
his followers completely made it difficult to convict these followers  (LINCOLNWAY WEST IN MISHAWAKA)  
of  first-degree  murder,  Bugliois~·  PHONE 255-6500  
reported. "If Manson had com­plete control of his followers then how could they be guilty o 1  appointments preferred  

~­

.............._............................. ___ .,..________ ..... .......,.____., _________··--··-............., 
"I · t k" d f d"d • t t th 
JUS m o 1 n t ge o at
h "R" "d H paragraph, ftvtehra sadt. · ow~vedr 
one mem er o e au tence ratse 
th t" th t B 11'
e ques 1on a u s recom­
mendation may have been iUegal to b · · h · . h .
1

egm wtt !n. tg t of the ongom labor neg?t_Iations. . 
In addttton, accordmg to the South Bend Tribune, "Bull would not deny that Notre Dame was 'playing up' the package in an attempt to .improv_e its image." 
Part?" s~td, he ts ~ary of the Admtmstratton s commtttment to its employees. . "Let me tell you, Notre Dame ts slV." 'Payton said . "We don't e\ ..::n know about a 
pension," he noted, "When you go 
to talk about a pension they're too 
busy to talk to you." 
University lawyers, Payton claimed, are trying to merge the eight stadium workers into the same department with the 21 groundskeepers. Payton said this wiJJ hur the groundskeepers in their attempt to unionize. 
"We heard it through the grape­vine that their foreman will prevent them from signing union cards,'' said Payton. 
Payton said he initially tried to get help from the steel workers union, and then from the UAW. "These unions wouldn't touch us for the simple fact that this is the University of Notre Dame," Payton said. He added that the Teamsters reacted to the groundskeepers request "with open arms." 
"We're going to go ahead and have the election as soon as the NLRB sets the date," Payton concluded. He added that at present he believes the University is "just waitine on the results of that election.'' 
Parra noted after the meeting that 2,000 names were presented to Fr. Hesburgh Friday on petitions. He added that some petitions protesting the University's treat­ment of the groundskeepers, are 
still coming in. 


LOWENBRAU'PARTY! 

75e a bottle 
Tuesday Night 7:00-3:00' 

Tues. 9-11 

GREG HULL 
Wed. 9:30-11 
"Jazz at the Nazz" featuring the ALMOST 3 O'CLOCK JAZZ COMBO 

basement of Iafortune 
need r~sumes in a hurry? 

rag bond 2 5 -81/2 X 1 1 $2.5 5 
203 N. Ma1n SoBend 289-697 

• 
Tuesday, October 18, 1977 the observer 
He's Right Outside Your Door 
the West from the Indians' point of A book like this furthers our education, It was late in the afternoon when I view-not how the West was won, but how and we feel we can never be quite the same arrived, and the family was in the middle of it was lost. This amazing story ends with again. The same is true when we supper, such as it was. What a scene! It the massacre at Wounded Knee, when the experience a book like Leon Uris' Trinity, was so dark inside, what with only one


Fr. Bill Toohey 
Sioux, nearly 300 men, women, and the run-away bestseller of this year; the naked bulb providing illumination, that I children, were slaughtered. The book magnificent and truly heartbreaking story couldn't see a thing until my eyes adjusted. concludes with this memorable passage: of the ''terrible beauty'' that is Ireland and Then I saw the family, five children and the We are not really bad people, you and I. her suffering people. mother, sitting around a bare table. For We don't do a lot of things that are A detail of soldiers went ovel' the This kind of exposure, through academic supper they were passing around a box of positively evil. Much of the time, however, Wounded Knee battlefield, gathering up programs and personal reading, can be corn flakes. Each one would take a handful we do nothing at all, verifying the truth of Indians who were still alive, and loading quite helpful. Still, we realize that personal and pass it on. That was it. That was the the saying, "All it takes for great evil to be them into wagons. As it was apparent by experience adds an important additional way they ate, more often than not, I later done is for a lot of good people to do the end of the day that a blizzard was dimension. Thus, in my own case, I learned learned, in that rat-infested hovel in the nothing.'' approaching, the dead Indians were left a lot about the "Holocaust" through the shadow of the Capitol in the richest nation 
I sense that what we share is a condition lying there where they had fallen•••to be writings of Elie Wiesel and documentaries in the world. 
of non-exposure to a great many basic facts found after the bUzzard, frozen Into like Night and Fog; but the lesson was of life. A certain amount of this is to be grotesque shapes1. The wagonloads of brought home with unforgettable power Because of experiences like these, I expected. After all, that's one reason why wounded Sioux (four men and forty-seven when a few years ago I actually visited the believe I've learned to see better; and it's people come to college-to become en­women and chUdren) reached Pine Ridge concentration camp at Dachau, and saw the same for each of us. We are lightened to the realities of life. I think it's after dark. Because all available barracks firsthand the ovens, instruments of torture, inexperienced, unexposed to life. Thus the a safe presumption that once we come into were filled with soldiers, they were left and mass graves. importance of opportunities such as the 
contact with our real world, and its needs, lying in the open wagons in the bitter cold, Urban Plunge and the Latin American we will respond as basically good people while an inept Army officer searched for I also remember how my own personal Program for Experiential Learning. do. shelter. Fmally the Episcopal mission experience of the inner city of Washington, Little by little, we realize through an 
For example, many of us had no more church was opened. D.C., deepened my understanding and ever deeper experience .Jf our real world than the faintest notion of the reality of It was the fourth day after Christmas in education. It was only then that I really that our God is still suffering in His people, black America until we read books like the year of Our wrd 1890. When the first began to see what millions of Blacks in still incarnate in the flesh of His creation. Black Like Me, Confessions Of Nat Turner, tom and bleeding bodies were carried into America go through. I recall one time, for And we begin to see that we cannot know Roots, and others. The same has been true the candlelit church, those who were example, visiting a family to bring them a Him, reach Him, contact Him in our for the Jews and the "Holocaust"; and conscious could see Christmas greenery supply of firewood. (The people in the sanctuaries if we don't find Him in our only lately have some of us begun to learn hanging from the open rafters. Across the ghetto had only wood-burning stoves for world (in nation city, dormitory). We our history lesson about the American chancel front above the pulpit was strung a cooking and heat; and some of us used to cannot claim Jesus for ourselves in the Indian. The classic document, Bury My crudely lettered banner: Peace on Earth, chop wood and deliver a supply to several lovely solitude of Communion, and refuse Heart at Wounded Knee, tells the story of Good Will to Men. families.) to find Him in Lazarus at our door. 



As If Eden 
feelings--at first abrupt and uncertain, and later more gentle and reflective. Frank's hand motions in the first movement were dramatic, even at times cleverly distractinm. Later, his touch mellowed as he ran his fingers up and down the keyboard (dancing mice to a 
dancing mind.) 

Leo Hansen 
No one understands emotions like the artist. Perhaps because his are experi­The third movement, the Rondo, of enced as an exaggeration; perhaps the Concerto is singularly climactic. Itbecause he understands where they is, perhaps. reminiscents of the Vivaldi evolve from or why they exist; or concerto grosso (the Four Seasons) or 
perhaps. simply, because he is more in even the fromfinale a Beethoven touch with that part or region of his 
symphony (particularly the Eighth 
persona. Nonetheless, the artist knows Symphony) .. The theme is resolving and himself; and his creations reflect know­confident. Mozart thought that musicledge of the inner spirit of man--his should not offend the listener. In the feelings, fears, anxieties and uncon­closing of this concerto, like Vivaldi and scious desires. 
Beethoven, Brahms does more than pay subtle homage to the eomtions of his 
lnteroretations of these inner feelings listener. The finale is strong and secure. vary, _in style and content. There is a He has aroused both romantic desires relatively famous painting of Beethoven and emotional conflicts earlier, but composing his pastoral symphony by a leaves the listener with inner content. brook. His eyes wander, as if he is Claude Frank, artist upon the piano. was forming two images--first, his interpre­not aware of that fact. His delivery, too. tation of the landscape (serene, almost resolved the conflicting images he had redempturous. as if Eden was not lost portrayed to his audience. from Adam and Eve ) and second, his interpretation of the spirit of the landscape (sentiments and feelings af­The orchestra behind concealed the fected by an arousal of former conscious hidden fact that it might not have had as associations, or the stimualtion of an much depth as the music demanded. innate human need for beauty or for That is no minor accomplishment. expression).lt would be rare that another considering the youth of many members artist would have evolved the same of the orchestra. Herbert Butler. musical ideas and forms from the same Conductor, is as distinguished as any source of input--unless he would have a prolific symphonic leader of our time. life and heredity vt>ry similar to Beetho­Under his direction the Concerto and of ven, a difficult task to simulale the same Mozart's Figaro Overture and Proko­environmental and genetic influences ' fiev's Romeo and Juliet, the Morris Civic which mold personality traits and-Auditorium was full of the Romantic thought processes . flavor and Classical tradition that the 
music demands and the setting en­hances.
Thus, it is relatively dear to distin­
To the listener, this experience is rich, guish between compositions of a similar sensitive, sincere, and inspiring. Itidea, or compositions produced by a brings him closer to his own personalsingle artist, knowing the artist or understandings of his own feelings andknowing the source of stimulation 
desires. Isaacx Basjevos Singer, in his At the opening South short story appearing in this week's Pianist Oaude Frank
of the Bend 
issue ofthe New Yorker, he describes theSymphony's forty-fifth season last Satur­astonishment of a man awed by theday night, Claude Frank, an artist who can be unquestionably caJJed a "mas­beauty of a woman: ter'' performed the Concerto No. 1 in D 
''How can such splendor exist, he won­
Minor by Brahms, opus 15, with dered.
interpretation of the music and the 
She was both matter and spirit.''
spirit of Brahms' intentions. Brahm's first concerto is filled with precision ')as most first attempts in a particular moide The man, a rabbi who has publicly of music seem to be) without the self-condemned his soul admires a little introduction of many minor themes boy who has the genius to distinguish (which, again, are to be found in similar between spirit and reality and says, works). In the first two movements, "The boy knows the truth." To Maetoso and Adagio, Brahms is search­understand beauty, is the mystery of ing for the resolution of his queries into music and art. The difference of different methods of expressing similar understanding is gen!us; it is truth. 
~ 



DOONESBURY Editor's Note: Mr. Trudeau has been sick and his syndicate has sent os one of his "classic" :J Doonesbury strips for pubUcatfon ~ this week. Readers who were Jl unfortunate enough to be at Notre :S 1 Dame four yelli'S ago when the strip ~ : was originally published wm recall the uclassic" male v. female ~ controversy it provoked. The -~ Observer reprints this strip with (!) the understanding that no attmept to resurrect the issue wm be  •wiTH THe AIJYENT OF EQUAl OPPORTUNITY FOR ~ WOMEN IN COU.£6/ATE ~ 5POR.TS, THERE IS NOW A o NEEP TO E[)()CATE ATH/..&T£5 /ABOUT 7H& SPORT5 S/TfJATION AS IT Cf/RRENTlY  '' TOWARPS THAT GoAl.-, 1HE t/NIVERSITY MJMttfS ATHlETIC A550C!ATION HA5 PR£PAR£P A BRIEF 1Gt/IPE TO UIOMtN / IN SPOIQ'S.'''  WHAT fOUOtu5 AI<£ WME C¥= 1HE 110ST rR£()1J£NTL.Y ASKEP f)ti!ST!CWS ABOiJT /MJ/1~ WHICH WEU 77<Y TO ANSW£1< H&R.E IN PLAIN, SIMPle / LAN&fJA6E.  /.II/HAT &XACTtY IS A ..WOMAN"? OH, WOIJI­I .I'VE Alat4Y5 BE&N AFR.AIP TO A5K! o ~  

---~-------------~----------.....,--------:-:-----­
Basic PrinciPles 
Since last Friday's editorial on .the ly? How does their income compare to the groundskeeper-union situation, yet~ three national income for their position? How more changes have occurred: Congress much do middle management figures in the passed the HEW appropriations bill; Direc­University receive? How does their income tor of Personnel Thomas Bull announced an compare nationally or with peer improved salary and benefits package for institutions? 
hourly personnel; and organizations and With all the confusion and secrecy, it is individuals supporting the groundskeepers yet possible to affirm a number of general formed a coalition. principles. that will still be at stake, no 
Before the week is out, the National Labor matter what the outcome of the present Relations Board is likely to announce a new case. date for a hearing; the coalition will sponsor What kind of relations does the University a demonstration in support of the grounds­have with its staff? A favorite belief, long keepers; and a few more announcements, held by many and particularly evident comments and explanations may trickle out among Notre Dame's officers, is the of the Dome. conviction that unions do not belong in a 
These constant changes in the situation University.~ Presumably such a belief is have added to . the confusion already based on the notion that University adminis­generated by the administration's reluc­trators are more enlightened than other tance to discuss the case (understandable in employers; therefore, management and light of the University's precarious legal employees should be able to negotiate position.) The postponement of the NLRB salaries and working conditions in amity. hearing has unfortunately prolonged the Apparently such is not the case at Notre circulation of rumors and erroneous inform­Dame. Workers from other departments, ation and delayed at least a partial clearing as well as the groundskeepers, have of the air. complained that University labor decisions 
The chronology of certain key events-the are inadequately communicated and decision to contract out the groundskeeping explained to the staff, and ~~at the work, the signing of the union cards, the administration is too inaccessible for staff planning of the wage and benefits package-­members with grievances. will be the major factor at the NlRB hearing In addition, available figures tend to show in detennining the motivation of . the that Notre Dame's salaries and benefits are different parties and assessing the actions not competitive with comparable institu­of the University in light of labor laws. tions. Granted, the package announced 
For example, the groundskeepers claim yesterday is an improvement; still, the that the University's decision to contract out rising cost-of-living will swallow much of the its grounds work was in response to their salary increase. moves to unionize. They have claimed that The most focused-on issue of the whole the wage and benefits package is a situation is the right of University workers last-minute effort to appease them. to organize. Many have seen the Univer­
The University claims that it was ap­sity's decision to contract out its grounds proached by an outside contractor in May, work as a denial of this right. According to before the unionization drive. (Some some sources, other University workers observers have suggested that the workers have been warned by supervisors and fellow may have begun their drive in response to staff not to sign union cards under threat of rumors that they would be laid off.) The losing their jobs. University also claims that its wage and University workers' right to organize benefits package has been in the workings should not be in question and, indeed, the for months and was scheduled for release University seems to have conceded this shortly. point to the groundskeepers. It has not, 
Either sequence is plausible and each however, demonstrated or indicated its side has shown some supportive evidence. willingness to deal with an elected bargain­But attempts to feiTet out decisive evidence ing agent. The University's efforts this past --such as the date on which bids from week to persuade workers' not to vote for a contracting companies were taken--have union have almost certainly been in viola­been unsuccessful. Both sides are appar-tion of labor law. 
. • ently reserving their heavy ammunition for Notre Dame staff members are entitled to the NLRB hearing. . full information on the pros and cons of Both sides have been inconsistent in unionization; they are entitled to protection presenting their cases. The most publicized from coercion by either faction; and they are example has been the University law firm's entitled to freedom from fear of reprisals. ''mistake'' in claiming that the grounds­The University, on the other hand, has keepers would be layed off Nov. 1 and the the right to contract out its grounds work or University's subsequent disclaimer. And any other campus work. The real issue here last night, supporters of the groundskeepers is not their right to do so, but the timing and accused the University of using deceptive motivation of this particular decision. They tactics, then applauded an interpreter for are morally obliged, however, to consider the Spanish-speaking workers when he the effect of any such decision on the admitted that he had purposely omitted one welfare of their employees. Guaranteed job of Bull's remarks from his translation placement outside or within the University yesterday. At another point in the meeting, seems fair, in principle, if it does not result the spokesman for the groundskeepers gave in a decrease in salary or loss of seniority or mutually-exclusive figures for the hours benefits. (regular and overtime) that the men work The University should be one of the first and their annual incomes. One set of to admit thatit has not handled the situation figures would push the groundskeepers' of the groundskeepers well, and Notre salaries over $12,000 per year! Dame's reputation has suffered as a The confusions and contradictions are by consequence. We hope that both the no means confined to one side. Some University and the groundskeepers will pertinent questions that have yet to be work to clarify tl).e many misunderstandings decisively answered: What is the average which have arisen and to conduct their take-home pay for the groundskeepers? future dealings in good faith and with What benefits do they receive? How much mutual respect. overtime do they work and how consistent­
~~ ..~---gn_ued_.______________~L-----------------~ 
*The Observer ~ 
an independent student newspdper serving notre dame and st. mary'., 
The Observer is published by students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College It does not necessarily reflect the policies of either institution. The 
news is reported as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions and letters are the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and letters are encouraged to promote the free expression of varying opinions on campus. 
EDITORIAL BOARD 
Marti Hogan Editor-in-Chiel Martha Fanning Managing Editor Bob Brink Asst. Managing Ed. Kathy Mills Executive Editor Maureen Flynn Editorial Editor Barb Hreitenstem Exec. News Editor Jean Powlt>v St. Mary's Editor Katie Kerwin News ·Editor Barb Langhenry News Editor Paul StevE>mon Sports Editor Pat Cole Special Projects Ed David o·Keefe Features Editor 
Tuesday, October 18, 1977 

Winter Settles In 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiibob varettonii 
Pete rolled over and checked something I bought you." the digital clock on the table next "You really didn't have to." to his bed. "That's Ok, just think of it as an 
'"Two in the morning? I don't early Christmas present.'' believe it. Who wants to wake "Gee, thanks," said Pete, a little anyone up at two in the morning?" sarcastically. He opened the 
He rolled back, preparing to fall package. "Hey, a blanket." asleep again, until he heard ano­"Y~u 'II be needing it." ther knock at his door. This time it "Yeah, a blanket -that's nice of was louder than before. you. I knew you had a warm spot 
"Ok, Ok, I'm up. Hold on a in your heart . . . Hey, are you second, will you?" He sat up in comfortable there? Can I get you bed, then walked over to his closet something?" where his robe hung on a hook. "What you got?" 
"All right, come in." Pete Pete went to his refrigerator, turned on the light and finished stumbling over one of Winter's putting on his robe at the same shoes on the way. time. The abrupt opening of the "Don't have much to eat. How door from the outside knocked him about something to drink? I've got back a bit. some Fresca left." 
"Pete, Pete, hiya. Why are you "Fresca? You've got Fresca? staggering around like that? Great.'' Another night out drinking, eh?" Pete handed him the can of 
~ete looked at the grey haired soda. man he just let into his dorm room. "I didn't mean to be so rude For a moment, he didn't recognize before. It's just that I was him. But the man, standing with a sleeping." suitcase in one hand and a package "Don't worry about it, Pete." in the other, reminded him of one ''So listen, where have you been of his unemployed uncles. hiding yourself lately?'' 
"Petey, what's the matter? ''Oh, just spent some time up Don't recognize me?" north. How's school been going?" 
"For God's sake, it can't be ... "I got a 3.2 last semester." Winter? Winter, what are you "And Alice?" doing here, I wasn't expecting you "We broke up last spring." for another month yet.'' "Too bad. I really liked her." 
The old man smiled. "Yeah well -listen, I've got an 8 "But look, " Pete cried, "it isn't o'clock Econ test and I need some even October break yet.'' sleep. Mind if we catch up later? "This is South Bend, isn't it?" I'm really bushed." Pete sighed. The old man had a "Sure Pete, whatever you say. point. Good night.'' 
Winter wasted no time settling Pete took his blanket and went in. He threw his suitcase down and back to his bed. As he lay there he switched on the T.V. He sat down looked over and saw Winter take on the sofa, took his shoes off, and another sip of soda and put his feet 
looked up at the television. He still up on a chair. He looked comfor­had his package with him. table, as if he were planning to stay 
"Damn Tom Snyder," he mum­for a long time. Just then, the bled. Then, throwing the package radiator in the corner made tapping at Pete, "Here boy, just a litttle noise as it began to warm up. 

Dear f)'. Hesburgb: 
I am deeply concerned with the current treatment of the Univer­sity's groundskeepers by the administration. You once said, at a meeting in Morrissey my freshman year, that Notre Dame is the largest Catholic University in the world. The idea that we profess to be a Catholic University puts heavy obligations on our shoulder, indeed. It means that it is our duty to make this university run on moral and purely moral principles. We have chosen to be a symbol of Christianity and therefore our responsibilities are great. 
If human rights is the key issue of our time then we cannot begin to compromise it here at Notre Dame. Nothing is more important than a human life, and no one but a tryant will deny a person his human rights. It is easy to debate with the Soviets on these points. It is easy to speak with high-ranking officials on these points. It is easy to believe all of these points. But the true difficulty lies in their fullest implementation. I can only guess how many people you are respon­sible to: the Board of Trustees, the Alumni, the students, the Church. All must be pressuring you and keeping a close eye on your actions. But I ask you to overlook the mundane realities of your position 
nd see their moral consequence. Your actions are a lesson to us all. A defect in logic on your part may be seen as moral license by others. 
Money does become a para-l 
mount issue here. Money and politics. I am not well versed in business, and I do not understand the full ramifications of unioniza­tion. But if giving the workers the right to collective bargaining means an increase in tuition--so be it. We cannot sell ourselves out of moral obligation. Open discussion between employer and employee is a fundamental right of each human being. Nobody has the right not to listen to his constituents; as a matter of fact, it is his duty to do otherwise. 
If it is impossible to run a university on the Christian prin­ciples of human dignity, then maybe that is the cold reality of our imperfect world--a fact we have to live with. But if this is the case, Father, then the concept of the Catholic University is clearly an hypocrisy. It may well be an excellent public relations device, invaluable for raising endowment funds, but if that is all it is good for then the mere title is surely blasphemy. And if it is true, and we cannot make our institution work on Christian principles then we surely cannot vocalize our disapproval of breaches of human rights elsewhere. Only he who has no sin can throw the first stone, and I see the treatment of the grounds­workers by the Notre Dame admin­istration as a grave sin of social injustice. 
Anthony McCann '79 

opinion~~~~~~~~~ 
_Cavalier Attitudes and Sexuality 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii Iawrence a. mayer 
It's somewhat painful to find so sensitive a topic as homosexuality treated in such cavalier fashion as in these recent Opinion columns. Mr. Cwik, on the one hand, rants as though he had a box-top diploma in Demagoguery I. One recalls the 
dictators of history who appealed to the protection· of Freedom to justify their tromping the personal freedoms of others with whom they disagreed or feared. His entire argument (to use the word loosely) borders on the frantic and incoher­ent. A modest amount of home­work in cultural history or the behavioral sciences might have taught him a salutary caution, something most appropriate in view of his assertions. Enough of him. 
On the other hand, Mr. Merman has made the error of responding to a tirade with reason, and buying in the process---or at least, accepting as already demonstrated---the theses of Cwik and some generally accepted premises of the whole current and rather sideling debate on the subject of gay rights. 
I can't pretend to the last word, but I may push the discussion back a step? Merman makes a fatal concession when he attempts to assign causes for homosexuality to childhood enviroment, to some pattern of learned behavior. These are hardly sufficiently established, and besides, Cwik can use them just as appropriately to bolster his own series of propositions. But even worse, Merman has accepted the neat type-casting of hetero­sexual versus homosexual roles, a disjuncture which may be conveni­ent in analysis, but never exists in a pure state (no pun intended). 
The truest thing to be said about human sexuality is that hetero-and homo-sexuality, just like masculin­ity and feminity, are complement­ary within every individual and complementary within a healthy society. The assigning of sexual orientation to gender is at best of limited value, particularly since the critical question has to do with the shaping of a balanced human-ness, within which an integral sexuality-­masculine and feminine aspects, whichever may be dominant--is at ease. To stomp out either one side or the other of this whole produces social cripples or emotional inva­lids. 
I'm reminded of the story, "The Kindgom of the Blind", and would recommend it to both Messrs. Cwik and Merman, since the former would destroy the unique gift of an individual's sexual orientation in order to defend his own fearful view of the world; the latter would concede that such a world legiti­mately ought to exist. 
P.O. BOXQ 
Hesburgh ranks· high 
Dear Editor: 
It is with growing disgust that I 
incessantly hear and read picayune 
criticism and gossip regarding Fr. 
Hesburgh. I believe Notre Dame's 
president to be a man of the 
highest rank in American educa­
tion. He has brought the University 

great respect through his presence 
alone, and the chief aims of his 
"escapades" are the betterment of 

the University's academic standing 
and overall image, as well as the 
improvement of educational stan­
dards throughout the nation. 
Fr. Hesburgh's ability to keep 

the day by day problems and 
occurances here at Notre Dame in 
perspective, and deal with them 
accordingly would seem to be an 
integral part of the man. Also, what 
greater tribute can one ascribe to a 
leader than the ability of his 
charges to perform smoothly in his 
absence? 
So, fellow students, though it's easy to take cheap shots at any person in a position of importance, I think it's time we realize just how lucky we at Notre Dame are to have Fr. Ted Hesburgh as our leader. 
Stan Aslanian 
President, Carroll Hall 

Selective morality under the tarnished dome 
Dear Editor: 
The Notre Dame administration has done it again; its moral bankruptcy no longer amazes me. First, they broke half the rules in duLac as they railroaded AI Hun­ter. To make sure that the students never defy them again, they are planning to eliminate students from the judicial process. 
As if these actions were not enough, the University then deci­ded to extend marijuana, alcohol, and pre-marital sex rules to off­campus residences. It is obvious that these rules could not be enforced over the entire off-campus community. However, the Univer­sity could use these rules to get students that they did not like. Judging by past performances, I expect that they will. 
Now the University has decided to lay off its groundskeepers for having the nerve to try to organize. Although I wish that they were affiliating with a union other than the Teamsters, I sympathize with the groundskeepers' plight. 

Along with another summer worker, I led a collective effort to improve the poor working condi­tions that my summer job had. Although we did eventually obtain better conditions, we received an initial response similar to the one that the groundskeepers are get­ting. I realize how hard it is to risk your job for what you believe is right. 
The saddest aspect of this situa­tion is the high moral stance that the University continues to main­tain. We see Fr. Hesburgh debating the Soviets on human rights and hear about ''The Chris­tian values of a Notre Dame education" while our administra­tion acts so immorally. I still feel that this is a great university, but it has achieved its greatness in spite of the actions of its administration, and it probably always will. 
Pat Toomey, Jr. '80 
Why abuse the-instruments? 
Dear Editor: 
The other day, I was seized with the urge to explore my creativity, and clutching my piano music carefully, I went over to Crowley Hall. Unfortunately, the first piano I tried to play was badly out of tune, so I tried another. This instrument was in tune, but three fourths of the keys stuck. The next piano combined the worst charac­teristics of the first two. What I am saying, in short, is that the pianos 
here  are  in  sad  shape.  
Any  of the  frustrated  pianists  
here will agree with me.  Many of  
the  pianos  at  Crowley  are  too  

tuneless for belief. LaFortune's instrument is nice, but personally, when I'm practicing, I don't want two hundred people listening in. The various pianos in the different dorms aren't worth mentioning, and there are perhaps four or five playable pianos on campus, all of which are locked up and for music majors only. 
I can see the point of locking up the best pianos. At the same time, there are many students who either study music for the sheer enjoyment of it, or perhaps, like me, don't evern take lessons bul want to continue v-rith a hobby they've loved since grade school. These people, I think, deserve a little encouragement. You don't get much encouragement from a piano whose keys only play half of the time. 
I am aware that there was one incident last year when a group of students were mistreating a piano. One incident, however, hardly constitutes a major danger to the pianos. 
The music department is doing it's best, but what's really needed is a few new instruments. Two or threee decent uprights for the culture-starved pianists can't cost that much, and I don't see how Notre Dame can afford to go without them. To me, this shows a blatant lack of concern for the needs of many students at a very basic level. 
Theresa Rebeck 
Montezuma's 
revenge 

Dear Editor: 
I am an ND student in the 
Mexico City foreign study pro­
gram. The 18 students here 
receive The Observer in groups of 6 
or 7 issues every 2 weeks. It's a 
welcome and fine newspaper. I'm 
not writng about that, though. 
What I am writing about is an 
article that turns my stomach. The 
front page of the Sept. 13 issue 
reports fights after the ND-Pitt 
game. I thing it's only sad. 
I walk through Mexico City every day and I turn away beggars. There are just too many of them. Mothers with their children hold out their hands, asking. Through restaurant windows children beg by holding up one hand to their mouths and pointing to their stomachs with the other. You don't have to know Spanish to under­stand that. It's a unive~al language, except at Notre Dame I tend to think. 
There are so many poor, starving people here that the problem seems insurmountable. Reading of Notre Dame food fights as a way of celebrating a victory football game in the face of Mexico City's starvation is very disheartening. "Those are my peers," I say to myself "are they really as ignorant and imbecilic as that?" 
Last year as a freshman I experienced food fights. You ,;on't know how relieved I am for not having participated in them now. 
The next time I see a mother and child begging for their evening tortilla and coffee I'll thil\k of my peers and their victory ceiebration. 
Richard Duffer · Mexico 77-78 

J 
Tuesday, October 18, 1977
the observer
8 

Parietals topic of student assembly meeting 
by Maria Frlgyesl 
St. Mary's Student Body Presi­dent Mary Rukavina opened the Student Assembly mettin last night by proposing three possible exten­sions of parietals. The measures included extending Friday and Saturday parietals from 12 a.m. t o2 a.m. and Sunday from the present 5 to 10j or extending the above proposals. 
Rukavina expressed a willing­ness to porpose weekday night parietals if thecouncil elected to do so, but stated that it was more conceivable to limit the extension 
to the weekends. 

Among the problems discussed were the need for privacy during the week, and the willingness of 
hours. The proposal of payment for students to check ID's as either part of campus employment through the financial aid office or 
payemtn by the reprective halls was also discussed. Because of lack of funds, this idea was discarded. 
Rukavina plans to outline a rough . draft of the proposal to extend weekend parietals and pre­sent it to Dean of Students Kath­meeting. Council members are: Mary Elizabeth Beckman, Donna Bellock, Margie Brassil, Lisa Brinkman, angie Brown, Tricia Burke, Missie Cammon, Susioe Eckelkamp, Ann Grzybowski, Mary Beth Hanigan, Mary Lauben, Maryellen Maccio, Marte Megar­gle, Tina Michas, Catherine Shaughnessy, Kathleen Sweeney, Beth Toomey, Adri Trigiana, and Eileen White. A run-off election will take place at the next meeting. 
The appearance of Cicely Tyson in O'Laughlin Auditorium in No­vember as previously booked was also announced. 
The possibility of Phil Donahue taping a show at St. Mary's sometime in January or February was also mentioned by Rukavina, but she had no further details. 
The status of the Snack Shop was discussed. Jason Lindower, Col­
parietals to include one weekday students to accept the responsibili­leen Rice for briefing and sug­between Thereese Baugh and Barb lege Comptroller, has agreed to the per week from 6 to 12, or both of ties of additional parietal desk gestions. Schmuckal will be held Wednesday building of a wall to partition a in the LeMans lobby. Two hundred section of the snack shop, desig­
Inconsistencies inthe admission 
seventy five freshmen voters took nated as an area that can be rented 
of men to lounge areas is also a
NO cut curbs1 widened 
part in Monday's election. Any to students for social functions sim 
cuase for the prposed changes. 
questions about the election should ilar to the St. Mary's Clubhouse.
Presently, men are allowed in 
be directed to Maria Lisa Migna­The floor space ofthe proposed area
doors to aid handicapped 
Regina and McCandless lounges, 
nelli, Election Commissioner. would be equal to that of the Senior 
but not in those of Holy Cross and 
by Pat Dermody and Nieuwland Halls, Hayes­A request for funds from Mary Bar having a capacity of 289
LeMans Halls. This change will 
Healy, and the Center for Contin­Ann Stolz, Psychology Club repre­people. Furnishings for the loungs 
also take place next semester,
uing Education. Modificaitons sentative, and Barbara Van Eck, would include a television, furni­
either allowing men in all or none 
have also been made in the Hurley representing the International Stu­ture and carpeting. Lindower hasNotre Dame's University Com­of the dormitory lounges. 
Building and the Law School. dent Association, was brought to agreed to a long term loan ifmittee for the Physically Handicap­Thefreshman Class Council win­the attention of Assembly mem­Student Government funds can notped is continuing to improve facili­Bob love, a second year law ners were also annouinced at the bers. Voting for fund allocations meet the cost of remodelling. 
ties for those with physical disabili­student and also a member of theties, but they work in a ''very Committee, talked about the legaldifficult area,'' according to Bro. 
considerations facing the Univers­Kieran Ryan, the group's chair­
man. Pianist Smit to perform at SMC
ity in· this area. He cited the federal stipulations approved in 
Sinced an educational institution June of 1977, which specify that Leo Smit, composer, conductor, Kabalevsky. When he was fifteen Sciences in commemoration of the is prohibited by law from making "no one person may be discrimi­and professor of music at State years old he played for George SOOth anniversary of the great any inquiry into physical disability nated against on the basis of their University of New York at Buffalo, Balanchine and became pianist for astronomer's birth. In 1973, Smit 
or handicap. "we have no way of handicap." Also implied is the will spend two days on the Saint the American Ballet Company. His also appeared conductor in
as getting information until a student idea that any educational institu­Mary's campus as an artist-in-resi­first symphony, commissioned by Istanbul, Turkev. actually comes on campus,'' Ryan tion refusing to comply with the dence this Wednesday and Thurs­the Koussevityzky Foundation, 

remarked. guidelines would stand to lose any day. won the New York Crttic's Circle In June this year Smit played the federal money which they were During his stay he will be Award in 1956. complete piano music of Aaron 
Organized in 1976 as a response receiving. teaching classes and working with Copland in a single program in to requests from handicapped stu­students individually. as well as Smith has taught at Sarah Law­Buffalo while Coplane himself was dents the committee began by Love emphasized Notre Dame's conducting a forum and giving two rence College and the University of in the audience. Smit has 
previously recorded Copland's
instituting a campus-wide program actions preceeded the institution of recitals. Anyone who is interested California at Los Angeles, and was of curb cuts. Improved access to the federal regulations. "Notre in observing the artist at work composer-in-residence at the Concerto for Piano under the 
composer's direction.

buildings is another major con­Dame has always had a deep should call the music department at American Academy in Rome dur­cern, as ramps have been installed concern for the problems of the 284-4095 to make arrangements. ing 1972-73. While there he wrote Two of Smit' s most recent at both the North and South Dining handicapped," stated Love. On Wednesday, Smit will con­Caedmon, a cantata with words by recordings are "The Classic Cole" Halls, Hayes-Healy and Haggar duct ''A Forum on Romantic Anthony Hecht, which was pre­with Jan DeGaetani, on Columbia,
Dr. Phillip Faccenda, the Univer­
Halls,as well as the Student Health Music'' at 4:30 in the Little Theatre miered by the Buffaloi Philharmo­and pieces of his own on CRI label. 
sity's general counsel and another
Center. The next ramp scheduled of Moreau Hall. On that evening nic in 1972, and Copernicus: The public is cordially invited to
member of the Committee forthe
for construction is at the east at 8:00p.m. in Stapleton Lounge he Narrative and Credo, text by Sir attend any or all of Leo Smit's
Physically Handicapped was unav­
entrance to Sacred Heart Church. will give a recital, ''A Crazy-Quilt Fred Hoyle, which was commis­performances at Saint Mary's.
ailable for comment, but according of American Music," which ·will sioned by the National Academy of There will be no admission charge.
to Love has ''been very active to
''Another big area which has include a panoramic view of Ameri­
overcome all discrimination against 
been extensive and expensive has can music from MacDowell to
handicapped persons."

been the renovation of toilets," Gershwin. 
New entertainment program
explained Ryan. In all cases, he Committee member Bonnie Can­On Thursday at 8:00p.m. in the explained, the doors to the stalls tu, a senior sociology major who is Little Theatre he will give his final 
supported by Keenan
must be widened so that they swing paralyzed from the waist down concert, ''The Masters Write 
outward instead of inward. ''Grab reiterated Love's sentiments. Al­Jazz." This recital will trace the bars" must also be installed on though cited specific difficulties influence of jazz on the music of by AI Leverone expected to cost approximatelyeither side of the commode. In with the accessibility of the LaFor­classical composers. $1 ,000, is being financed entirely 
some buildings, even the size and tune Student Center, Cantu expres­Leo Smit was born in Philadel­Unexpected delays have post­by Keenan Hall. The hall improve­
shape of the commode itself must sed approval of the progress being phia, and at the age of eight poned the opening of The Cellar, ment fund and hall tax will com­be altered. Work has been done in made. "I think this year will received a scholarship to study for Keenan Hall's "alternative form of prise the bulk of the payment. the lavatories of O'Shaughnessy determine alot," Cantu concluded. a year in Russia with Dimitri entertainment." According to Zoromski explained that The 
co-director Ron Zoromski, the post­Cellar will be patterned after the ponement has been unavoidable, Nazz, but he stressed that it is not due to Keenan's decision to add a intended to provide competition. cooling system to the basemer1t. In a community of over 10,000
Pope offers himself as hostage 
people, he noted, there should be Zoromski stated that the room room for two such establishments. presently is too stuffy to be 
VATICAN CITY [AP]-Pope Paul The• Pope's offer came several appeal to conscience." enjoyed by customers. He added, According to Zoromski, students 
VI. in an unprecedented move, hours before West German com­The Pope has often denounced however, that they hope to be open who wish to perform are welcome offered himself as a hostage yester-. mandoes rescued the hostages in a terrorism, hut has never offered for business by the third week in to do so, and should contact him at 
day to obtain the release of 86 surprise attack on the hijacked himself as a hostage to resolve a November, depending on when 3313. He stated that the first two hostages threatened with death plane. weeks of entertainment are already
case. Aides say such episodes of installation is completed.aboard a hijacked West German If it would be of use, we would violence cause him great distress planned, but The Cellar is always jetliner held by four terrorists in even offer our persons for the and occasionally drive him to tears. The cooling system, which is looking for more talents. Mogadishu, Somalia. liberation of the hostages,'' the 
pontiff said in a telegram to Joseph j 
Cardinal Hoeffner of Cologne, head· 
*****************•***********jc
of the German Episcopal Con-# ' 0 • •
Right to Life 
fer~;~~· Msgr~ Constantino Mara· i( 0~~~ ~'-:)· STANFQRD HALL ~~~1?~ * 
funds cut dei Donato of Barcelona, Vene· i( ~ Q') INVITES YOU TO "/} )f.
zuela, said he would propose to the ~ ~ "-.q:! / ....._
[Continued from page 3] 
World Synod of Roman Catholic~~ QUR ~ 
0

thou'' attitude which the board Bishops, which is currently meet-~ ~ lt members assumed concerning ing herewith 243 bishops, that they ...., o<-........ their right to make the decision. offer themselves as hostages in-""?' ~ 1/f"
u s +c 
Maniace specificially criticized 
stead of~he 80-year-old Pope: The~ • tterly loshed rocked * 
Bender's statement on what is Synod mcludes 48 cardmals. ~ • • ""­Christian which appeared in the Pope Paul said in his telegram: ..,-... 1/f" Oct. 11 issue of The Observer. "We appeal to the conscience of iC ""­Bender was quoted as saying, "We the hijackers that they may desist ~ H H ~ thought, being a Catholic school, from their cruel undertaking which~ appy our 1/f" we would stand up for Christian threatens to precipitate into sorrow i( lt principle." 
Manlace questioned Bender's :~n~~d~~::~:~:e~~yinnocentir WHERE: KUBIAK'S TAVERN lt 
right to decide for others what is 
"At the same time we appeat to att ir TIME: 3-6 P.M. (INDIANA TIME) ltChristian. He argued that he 
those responsible to do everything~ ....._
would be able to prove to the board 
that his position on the issue "is a ~sible to avoid further shedding~ WHEN• FRID·A'Y OCT 21 1/f" Christian position.'' of tnnocent blood.'' '""Y' A • ,.... • 
* 
Haley commended Maniace and The highest ranking American in til ?)'Q . ~ * the 10 other students present at the 
t!te Vatican's ce~tral ad~inistra~~ 8~~ oY~ LIVE ENTERTAINMENT ~~& )f.
meeting for coming to the board with their complaints. It's some­
~:ton~o!~o ~=~~n~e ~~::r~g~~il ~ ~ ~o,-b NIGHTFLIGHT1 c¥:.o~'· * 
thing the student body doesn't doe tion for the Clergy, called the pa~al ~ • • >~ y • ~ ~ 
often enough," he said. offer "dramatic but not surpns-. . '/ · 
[Condaued-.... 10] ing."He siad it was "a compelling, J\ J\ lc l\ JC J\ J\ J\ J\.J\ J\ J\*A A J\ AJ\ lc J\ J\ J\ J\ A A lc J\ J\ lc J\1 

Tuesday, October 18, 1977 the observer 
9 
Roemer addresses students on security 
[Continued from page 3] was glad that they were at least
Ombudsman at 6283 (OBUD). persnnel on duty at any given time, she stated.
instl uments as suggested by the looking into the proposal.
These escort systems ''should meet Roemer commented, "ln our opin­Paula Fulks and Debbie Griffith,
students," Roemer stated. He also According to Fulks, the transpor­
the needs of the community " be ion, the number of personnel in the co-organizers of the SCS, expres­
said that the University has eval­
stated. "The purchase of a ~an to Security Department is proper at sed general disappointment in tation problem is two-fold. F1rst, uated several campus security go from hall to hall is not really the present level." The present Roemer's letter, although they she satd, the transportation mea­telephone systems, but com­feasible nor is the rerouting · of the Security system of walking patrols, commended "the few commit­sures presently available are insu­mented, "Additional consideration shuttle bus helpful." vehicle surveillance of campus and ments that Roemer did make." fficient, and second, they are 
of this suggestion is warranted and Roemer remarked that Security women stationed in the halls has They said they were happy with geared towards dependence of women on men.
since th Report on Coeducation is at its greatest force between the performed well, he noted. the decision to extend the present "Women on this contains a similar recommend­hours of 7 p.m and 7 a.m. The Roemer concluded his letter, rape prevention education program campus have a false sense of ation, that consideration is forth-Seucrity personnel on duty during stating, "The University will ex­to graduate women and with the security and will walk about cam­coming." · pus by themselves rather than call
these ho~rs patrol the outer perim­pend its energy and resources as commitment to replace the incan­
In regard to the problem of a man to come walk them home."
eter an mner roads. Both uni­mdicated above to assure everyone descent light bulbs with mercury transportaton on campus, Roemer formed and plain clothed security in the community that proper vapor lamps. "However, we were Also, Fulks pointed out that the 
pointed out that both Security and guards walk the grounds. "In measures are being taken to make disappointed that Roemer felt that letter does not explain why the van the Student Government organ­is not a feasible suggestion or why
addition, we have a staff of security this a safe place for people to live." only one light fixture, between the ization maintain escort systems women who are on duty full time Associate Provost Sr. John Mir­library and Bulla Road, should be the rerouting of the shuttle bus during the evening hours. A each night in all of the women's iam Jones stated that Roemer immediately installed,'' Fulks would not be helpful. student needing an escort from one residence halls,'' Roemer said. consulted her, along with four stated. "In our proposal we noted Regarding Roemer's comments point on campus to another can call Although he would not disclose other persons, in preparing his with precise detail 13 locations on Security personnel, Fulks re­
either Security at 8666 or the the actual number of security statement. "Although Dean where we believed that the instal­marked, ''if you keep the number 
Roemer signed the letter, it ac­lation of light standards was ab­of Security personnel classified, you end up allowing only the
Bu_gliosi lecture covers tually represents the views of many solutely imperative.'' 
people who know how many Secur­
people,'' she commented. Fulks said that she also believed ity men there really are to evaluatethat the University should call in a
The other persons who met with

RFK assassination 
the situation.''
Roemer and Jones were Director of lighting expert to survey and 
[Continued from page 4] hour," Bugliosi declared. Security Arthur Pears; Fr. Jerome appraise the entire lighting system. ''The University has committed 
itself to four things: switchingprevented from doing so by his Much of the evidence concerning Wilson, executive administrator of "Roemer's letter mentions nothing from incandescent to mercury or
superiors. the number of bullets has been the Physical Plant Maintenance about the long-range proposal for a 
Building; John Moorman, acting completely new lighting system vapor lamps, installing one lightingAlso unexplained by the LAPD inexplicably destroyed, Bugliosi fixture, extending the rape preven­report are two bullet holes in a revealed. "the doorjams in the director of Maintenance; and that was included in our rec­tion orientation to graduate women
Thomas Mason, vice-president for ommendations.''
pantry of the Ambassador Hotel, AP picture, a part of the ceiling and and placing stickers indicating
Business Affairs. ''AU of these
the scene of the 1968 assassination. the divider in the pantry have all "We were glad Roemer liked our Security's number on all campus
people would have to be involved in 
The LAPD maintains that the holes whistle suggestion, but disap­
been destroyed," Bugliosi stated. phones," Fulks stated. "These
any decisions made about the
were caused by the hotel's food pointed that he didn't think the
This is unheard of especially in a things are good things to do, but
proposals for improved campus
carts. The shape of the carts makes case of this importance," he Administration should handle in­there's so much more to be done,''
security,'' Jones said. 
stitution of the program," Fulks
this theory unacceptable, Bugliosi added. she commented.
Jones remarked that Roemer's commented. "It seems that most
believes. "I've seen those carts The LAPD have admitted there Griffith added, "I really don't
letter reflects ''for the most part'' of the commitments Roemer made ­
and I can tell you that they didn't think Roemer has adequately an­
was another person carrying a her own recommendations on the were only minute efforts on the
make those holes. For one thing, loaded gun in the lobby of the swered our proposals. He has
issue. "I was pleased with many part of the Administration." Fulks
there are no hsarp protuberances Ambassador Hotel when Robert committed himself to only a few
things that resulted from our aded that she had hoped for some things. It's kind of like a slap in the extending from them and secondly Kennedy was shot. "Unbeliev­meetings -for example, the fact kind of firm commitment about the
they would have had to have hit the ably, they did not test fire that face after all the work Paula and I
that we were able to expedite the SCS proposal for installation of a have done on this issue," shepantry at about 150-180 miles per 
gun," Bugliosi stated. purchase of new light fixtures," campus security phone system, but 
concluded. 
Guerrillas attack Masayan guard barracks 
MANAGUA* Nicaragua-[ap]-capital, and Nicaraguan air force The guerrillas are believed to be lages near the Costa Rican frontier. 
Costa Rican cabinet minister and 
Guerrilllas attacked a national planes were flying over the area. It part of the Sandinista National Government sources said 11 several newsmen making a border 
guard barracks in Nicaragua's sec­was not known if they were Liberation Front. They take their persons were killed Friday when tour. ond largest city, Masaya, yester­involved in the fighting. name from Cesar Augusto Sandino, 
guerrillas attacked two small vil­Costa Rica said the attack took
day. There were also other who fought against the occupation lages near the Costa Rican frontier. 
National guard troops blocked place in Costa Rican territory on
unconfirmed reports of fighting of Nicaragua by U.S. troops early in In a related development, Costa
the highway from Managua to the Frio River. The governmentwithin eight miles of the cap­Masaya to all but emergency this century. Rica claimeds Nicaraguan planes issued a formal protest to Nicar­
ital, Managua. 
President Anastasio Somoza, a Friday attacked boats carrying a agua.
vehicles, or vehicles registered in
National guard sources in Man­general in the national guard, has
Masaya. The Red Cross in
agua said reinforcements were sent often claimed the Sandinistas are
Managua said it sent four large
to Masaya, about 18 miles south­financed and armed by the Com­
Council announces
ambulance and 20 first-aid spec­
east of the capital. They said the munist government in Cuba.
ialists to Masaya.
guerrilllas were holed up in a The Cuban news agency Prensa 
executive committee
Residents in Masaya reported by 
Roman Catholic church opposite Latina, in a dispatch from neigh­
telephone that about 25 guerrillas
the barracks. boring Costa Rica, reported fight­(Continued from page 3]
attacked the barracks with gunfire glish.
ing between guerrillas and Nicar­
Gen. Roger Bermudez said the and grenades yesterday morning mittee of the Academic Council for 
aguan troops Sunday night in the
attack in Masaya was staged ''to the current academic year was also The three persons appointed by
and then fled into a church across 
mountains near the Costa Rican
cause confusion," but he said "the the street. announced after the meeting. Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh,
border. It said three guerrillas
situation is under control." C.S.C., president of the University,
The ex-officio positions normally Additional details of the fighting were killed. There was no immedi­are Dr. THomas P. Fehlner, pro­filled by the provost and the
Meanwhile, a radio station on were not immediately available in ate confirmation of the report. fessor of , chemistry;; Dean David
associate provost will this year by
the outskirts of Managua said there Managua. Government sources said 11 T. Link of the Law School , andoccupied by Rev. Ferdinand L.
was a gun battle in progress at The national guard is Nicar-persons were killed .Friday when Florenceanne Strigle, academic
Brown, C.S.C., acting provost, andmidday about eight miles from the agua's army. -. 
guerrillas attacked two small vii-commissioner of Student Govern­
cr 
c 


Sister John Miriam Jones, S.C. 
ment.
assistant provost. _ The five members elected by the A proposal concerning Univer-·Council are Peter T. Brady, as­sity for leaves of absence wassociate professor of accountancy; referred to the executive committee 
What's happentnq 
Dean Isabel Charles of Arts and for review.
Letters: Dr. Robert E. Gprdon, vice The meeting was the 1council'spresident for advanced studies; Dr~
WOOnesOay n1qht? 
Thomas J. Mueller, professor of mandatory assembly for the semes­aerospace and mechanical en­ter, but Strigle indicated that gineering, and Dr. Thomas A. "there may be another meeting 
before the semester is out."
W associate of En
I'll meet you •n I.aromun€ t=o~ th€ OOnC€ class 
room 7:30 to 8:30 
• 
lh€11 we'll oance on oown to the 
ambrosia
S€niOR 

One of Doc Pierce's most delectable dishes. A ·
BaR 

fresh. tender 1 0-oz. chicken breast with the exotic 
flavor of our special Polynesian marinade. ThisUl€ Sf)€Cial.s ~ somethnl(f to bane€ asout... tempting entree is served on a warm bed of wild rice. and garnished with pineapple. Ambrosia is complemented. of course. by your
f.oom 8 to 10 
choice of potato, salad, and hot bread with butter. 
Tuesday/VVednesday
120Z. stROh'S, BUSC 
$3.95

.. f.oom 10 to 2 ORInk! J: 
q1n & ton1cs 
...... 

VOOka & 7's •JeiW~ 7 & 7's 
Sgt.. 
120 N. Main St. 
Mishawaka 255-7737 

·--­
• 

Tuesday, (kjober18, 1977
10 the observer 
the University of Notre. Dame, has t e nation's most influential BlackThe All Stars' program is desig­been named 1977 outstanding leaders, since replacing the. latened to present jazz as music with a
Dance instantly! alumnus of the Tulane Universisty Whitney M. Young as Executive
tradition--and this diverse array of Graduate School. Director of the league in 1972.
Campus
outstanding musicians, whose 
A former president and repre­Recently, Jordan earned nationalAn "instant dance class" will be experience and playing attitudes sentative of the Indiana Association attention by openly challenging the held Wednesday night in the span jazz history, will offer the of Graduate Schools, Gordon also Carter administration's lack ofLaFortune Ballroom from 7:30-8:30 audience a perfect blend of jazz's 
Briefs 
serves as director for research at responsiveness to Blacks and other for anyone interested, especially distinctive styles. 
Notre Dame's Environmental minority groups.
those attending this week's Home­Moving from one era to another, Research Center. He is a fellow of The Annual Dinner is a commu­coming dance, ''Those Were the the All Stars cover every facet of the American Association for the nity activity sponsored by Urban
Days". Astrid Hotvedt will teach jazz, from Louis Armstrong's tradi­adimssion is $5 and student tickets the course in dancing to the sound tional New Orleans sound of the are $3. Advancement of Science and a League affiliates across the coun­of Tony Barron and His Orchestra. '20s to the swing era of New York's The Rotterdam Philharmonic in former chairman of the Science try. It is an opportunity for the 
Information Council of the National community to become familiar with Savoy Ballroom in the '30s, to the November, the Erick Hawkins Science Foundation. the National Urban League Move­improvisational pieces of Duke Dance Company in January, and
Newport jazz stars Ellington in the '40s. Each the Cartoon Opera Minstrel ment and the local league's pro­member is also prepared to discuss Theatre in March are the other Homecoming to grams and goals. 
Tickets for the Dinner Meetingjazz technique and to provide programs in this year's Performing 
perform at SMC informative and entertaining be held are priced at $10 per person and
Arts series. 

are available by reservation only.
accounts of his experience as a jazz Northeastern New York Club will
Senior formal Interested persons may phone the
The Newport Jazz Festival All musician. hold its traditional Autumn Home­Elkhart Urban League office atStars, who played their way This attempt to recapture the coming on October 26 at the 
through jazz history and across the musical flavor of jazz of the past signups Rafters on Saratoga Lake, at 9:30 295-3700 for ticket reservations. 
U.S. last season, will be the first makes every note played by the Senior Formal Committee p.m. All members are invited and UMAC II lecture performers in the Performing Arts Newport Jazz Festival All Stars a announced that the Senior Formal reservations are not necessary. For 
Series at Saint Mary's this year. living testimony to America's own will be held at the Conrad Hilton in more information call Mike (8837). 
today

hey will play in O'Laughlin Audi-best music. Demonstrating their Chicago, April 22, 1978. Proce­The Undergraduate Math Applied
orium at 8:00p.m. tomorrow. individual and collective virtuosity dures for sign ups will be announc­Colloquium (UMAC) is a series ofA creation of Festival founder on their first American tour last ed at a later date. For more -Jordan--tO_S_p--eak talks which presents the appJica­
nd producer George Wein, the All season, the group features rendi­information. call Mary White (ND) . . tions of mathematics to undergrad­
.stars features seven of the jazz tions of such jazz favorites as Louis 6968 or Kathy Heckman (SMC) Vernon Jor~an, executtve d1rec-uates in fields other than rnath.
world's be~t known musicians: Armstrong's "Struttin' with Some 7f?H3. 
to_r of the Nat10nal Urban L~ague, UMAC II will be presented to­.arrie Smith, vocalist; Ray Bryant, Barbecue," the classic "Stompin' wtll be the keynote speaker at the day from 4:30 to 5:30 in Room 2241ano; Harry "Sweets" Edison, at the Savoy," Duke Ellington's Gordon receives Elkhart ~rban Le~gue's 14th of Madeleva Hall by Charlesrumpet; Major Holly, string bass; "Take the A Train," and George· distinction Annual Dmner M~etmg on W:d-Peltier, assistant professor ofBob Wilber, soprano sax and Gershwin's "Lady be Good." 
nesday, at 7 p.m. m the Atheman mathematics at St. Mary's. Hislarinet; Eddie "Lockjaw" Davis, Tickets may be reserved by Dr. Robert E. Gordon, vice Room of Greencroft Center. topic will by "Elections: Do the enor sax; and Panama Francis, calling 284-4176 from 9 a.m. -noon president for advanced studies at Jordan has emerged as one of Best RealJy Win?" 
rums. and 1 p.m. -4 p.m. General 
·-~-~a~t;N;~ci~ ~~-1
'Decision not consistent' 
ANY JUNIOR FROM ND OR SMC ~~ 
ernment of applying double stan­Terry Finnegan, SLC representa­
In his presentation, Maniace dards in terms of social justice. He tive and board member, were not INTERESTED IN WORKING ON offered a counter-proposal that the cited government's involvement in present. Earlier in the day, Soma !;oard sanction a fund-raising cam­the groundskepers' situation as not had left Bender a letter stating that ,aign for Right to Life can give and consistent with last night's deci­he would be unable to attend the 
Jr. Class Formal 
uthers can freelv decline. sion. meeting, but that Bender could student Government adopted this cast his vote if it was necessary.
"To believe in social justicedd,
proposal and plans to initiate the you should at least be consistent or 
imd-raising drive after break. you are being hypocriticah'' La I~------------------~I 
. Organization 
Bender indicated, however, that 
i Classifieds Con't i ' 
Salvia said. 

student money will still be spent on 
Meeting
He disagreed with Maniace say­
lbbbying for a Right to Life I I ~ amendment. ing that abortion was not the issue 1 GOOGIE, 1 • 
in this case. "They (the board) I Happy-B-Day I -'Rick LaSalvia, chairman of the 
I 19 I •
should put themselves on record inlight toLife Committee, was uncer­
Wed. Oct. 
7pm
tain of the implications of the support of protecting the unborn. I Love. I • 

I Muffin I decision. "I welcome student That's the issue," he concluded. 1------------------I aovemment's offer to assist us in Only five members of the board 
I Hey guys, I La Fortune Antphitbeater
; Did you miss me at lunch today??? G ;
Qllr money-raising for our activi­were present at the meeting, but 
-----------------I
ties," LaSalvia said, "as long as we the board agreed that they were a 
Country girl, Told you I don't snore. 1 
temain an independent organiza-quorum. Bender stated that the 1 • A Q . C
Love, The Big City Boy

•.on." vote of the majority of the present 
Com;d~ofEr;r-;-_-;;much fu;as Velcro ~· ny uestlons all Marnie 6976 
LaSalvia accused Student Gov-group would be final. Soma and 
------------------I'~'~
+:~:;:~:::~:~:~:::::::~=~=~=~=~===~=::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:::::::~:::::::::::::::~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~=~=~=~:::~:~:~:·:~:~:::~=~=~===~===~=· 
E~~~ve~~v~ou~aby. _____ J Rodger is a twit tonight! to... 
I
.. 

------------------I Klee, eelk, blick, blah, barf 1 
=~~:~J·t:~=;=:~==a=r======:=:===:=:=:============:===:===:=========::=:=====================;=====;=;=;=;=;:;=;===;===;=·::=:=====·===;=;: ------------------I Ken, I I 
NBA Preview I 
:Los Angeles: Despite having Kareem-Abduf-Jabbar-teii-feet away from I hope you took good notes in Art Trads 
I
today since it was your fault I missed it. G
the basket, this team had nothing else last year. Now, they have a forward 
I 
in Jamaal Wilkes and a future star in Kenny Carr. But, ther's still not I
Desperately need bridesmaid's dress
enough to build a championship team with. 
sewn for November 12 wedding. Will Phoenix: Th7 '_'Sunde~ella" SU:~~ of the 1976. playoff~ _fQ_1;1nd the eclipse payll Call Maryanne 4·4762. last year. lnJunes dectmated tlie&~e'br \7&1' :Aeard, Curtis rerry 
and Alvan Adams. Rookie Ron Lee did a good job and will share playing I Bill W. of NO Soccer Team, I'm even 
I more loyal than G!

time with Mr. Assist, Don Buse, alongside AU-Pro Paul Westphal in the 
I V
backcourt. Not enough depth to mate the playoffs. 
1----------------­
Seattle: Rapidly becoming a disaster area. They acquired a good center in 
1 v. 

Marvin Webster, but they don't have any good team players to go with 1 I've got news for you, I'm not the loyal him, except for Slick Watts. Dennis Johnson has the potential to be a sta:. 1 one, and you can't be more loyal than H. 
I G
but the Sonics will have to dispose of Fred Brown first. 
~------------------J 

EED A CHANGE OF PACE? ­

notre dame student union & sunshine promotions 
presents 

f 
intraducing 
The Norton Buffalo Stampede FRIDAY, OCTOBER 21 8:00PM Notre Dame ACC 
Tickets: $8.00, $7.00 All Seats Reserved on sale now at the ACC box office & the student union box office 

•tf·-----------­
--~~~~-N--d-S--C•I--------=• •••••••••====••=~
N_' ~~. ee o. a, -vs-N.D. foot-Brother and sisfer need rid' to Cham-1
1 Cl , d Ad
~~ 1 usc STUDENT TICKET. MONEY IS 
ball t1xs. Oct. ~. -Sport_sTour at 3050 paign 111. area after USC game. Will I
~t~~\~TELy NO OBJECT.CALL ~-W. 7th Street, L.A.• Calif. ~-Call share expenses. Call 4-5181 or 1811. I
i ass'''e s 
(213) 384-1951. Could also use 4 t1xs for I 
• SAVE MY LOVE LIFE! any home game. WANTED: BGA Navy tickets; together if I 
I NOTICES Need three USC GA tix for girlfriend & WANTED: 3 USC Tix. Call Kate. 4983. possible. Will pay$. Call 288-o952 after 6 I I Rir1e to NYC area for October break. Will parents. Call ROCCO 1386. p.m. I 
I Need easy reading over the break? tPandora's has plenty of used books. tPipes & paraphanalia too. 937 South IBend Avenue. 
1------------------
ITo the individual who stole the day pack ~nd ca,culator out of the K of C Tues. night. please consider this: The pack had
1
~uch more worth than simply a monetary 1value, and I can't afford to replace the ecalculator. Please return what isn't yours. tK. Kress. 3414. 
1-----------------­
IPROFESSIONAL TYPING -Correcting 
:selectric typewriter, experienced in dis­
1sertations, reasonable. 232-5715. 
aExperienced minstrels. Serenading a tspecialty. Call Ringo and Jester 8243. 
1-------------------
IQver 65 or Handicapped? We need to lhear from you! Call234-8190 to complete Ia short. confidential survey on transpor­atation needs in St. Joseph County. (The atask force on specialized transportation). 
1---------~-------­
1 MORRISSEY LOAN FUND I Student loans $20·$150. 1 day wait. 1 I Jllrcent interest. Due in 30 days. LaFor­llJne Basement. M-F.11:15-12:15. 
.-----------------­
1 
LOST AND FOUND

.--------------------­
1Lost: $100.00 Reward!-for anyone who 1finds gold charm bracelet. One round I charm with inscription-great sentimen­1tal value. Call Monica, 272-5720. 
I Found: On sidewalk. 1976 Holy Cross :Preparatory class ring. Call Denise. • 4-5402. 
ILost: SMC IDand other valuable items at 
Kubiaks. Friday Oct. 7. If found please 
call JoAnne. 4-5778. $Reward$ 
Lost-Brown leather wallet on Saturday, the 8th. If found, please call John at 3074. Reward. 
Found-One walking cane at Grace Hall 
party, Oct. 1. On Bth floor. Call1747. 
FOUND: Miniature poodle near campus. 1234-5120 after 10 a.m. 1-----------­1LOST: Football tickets with i.d. This poor 
1 frosh is in fits. Please. 4-4728.
ILOST: In music practice room on pianoMon_day evening: a timex watch band ­
1
1sentimental value. No questions. Call 
18570. 
1-----------­
I LOST OR STOLEN ... Tl-50 calculator onIoct. 12 in Psychology Auditorium, Hag-gar Hall. Please return. No questions
1
1asked. Call Mike 1852. 1-----------­
I L9s~: An N.D. monogram jacket in North I Dm1ng Hall. Reward for its return. My :name is in the shoulder of the coat. Dave 
2216.
1
~-----------­
I FOR SALE 
I IA.K.C. Doberman pups, champion blood I lines r d $75 Ph 289 7562
1---~~_::.__.:__:.__.:.__ __:..____ 
i6 x 9 beige cotton carpeting. good econdition; car top luggage carrier and lgreen pull-up Naugahyde chair. Call12!2~340~after 5:30_._________
• 
12 GA USC tix for sale. Best offer. 1233-8855. ,-----------------­2 GA USC tickets. Best offer 8846.
1----------------­
1
11 student season ticket. Call8364.IAUDIO-OuTLEistare;eq-;;!pment.~'s lcb's, Wholesale. Call7781. 
1----------------­
1· -­
1974 Fiat Spider convertible 26,000 miles.1~~nditio~ $2850.00!'11!59-?7~ 
ITwo married student USC tickets. Best
llffer. 2n-0353. 
1------------------­

1Flanner Records-An on-campus student n record shop. we stock all new 
. leases & can order any album still 
ing produced. Also ava1·1able·. blank jtapes, components, accessories, pre-re­~orded 8-tracks and cassettes. Prices l$6.981ist LP's only $4.50, $7.981ist LP's 
loniy $5.29, $7.98 list tapes only $5.45.
IFianner Records, 322 Flanner. Phone 
~741. Hours: 4-5, 6:3o-a:oo M-Th. Sun.
330 
,...:__:-·--------------' 
12 GA USC tickets. best Offer. Call 
1272-3116. 
1-----------------­
I 
I WANTEO IIDesperately need ride to Binghamton, 
NY after USC game. Will share expenses.
1 
Call Rick 3583.
1 _________________
1
14 USC tix. Will pay big bucks. Call 8341. 
1-----------------­
1Need 4 GA usc tickets and 2 student. 1Kathy 272-3634. 
1-----------------­
INeed 2 USC GA tix. Will pay $$. 4-4438. ,-----------------­tNeed ride from central New York back to 
1Notre Dame after October break. Will I Share whatever. Call Mark 1852. 
i-Need-~id;to Bioomingto; to-;ee Dead. L~un. ~ct. 31. JB 8946. 
~~e driving and expenses. Call Ray at • __:__ 3 USC tickets:Car1Rod~t146l.---­
Need 1-3 GA USC tickets. Big money. Call Kevin 8713. 
Need ride back to NO from Miami U. Cincinnati area after break. John 8981. ' 
-~------~--------­
Parents coming from SEATTLE for first big visit to NO. Need 2 GA tix to Georgia Tech. Martha H. 4-4728. 
Learn to play pocket billiards in the poolroom of LaFortune Student Center under the Huddle. Just see the student manager on duty for help. 
NEEDQUALITYTYP~G?'Executary,
Inc. Pr.ofessional Typing Service IBM C9r~ectmg Selectrics $.85 per page m1mmum. Call 232-0898 "When you want the Best" 
Accurate, fast typing. Mrs. Donoho 232-0746. Hours 8a.m. to 6p.m. 
Typing. Call Carolyn. 232-9061. 
Typing. Call 8051. 
Sawing repairs. Call8051. 
RidetoNYC area tor 0-Ctoberbreak.Will share driving & expenses. Call Jim at 1436. 
Joe, the corrupting force of Holy Cross, is returning to slither with the snake this weekend. The chewing, drinking, gator­ing etc. will be endless! We hear you! 
Need 2 good tickets to Steve Miller and 2 good tickets to CSN. Call Paul1627. 
HELP: Adamsel in distress. Need ride back from New York City or northern New Jersey (Bergen County) area. Good company. Will share driving and expenses. Call Jill 5362. 
Need ride to Massachusetts. Will share usual. Call Tom. 1485. 
Looking for 2 Ga tickets to USC. Call Joe 
evenin~~34-098~--------­
Will trade stud. SC tix and $money for 2 Georgia Tech. GA's. Call 233-7604. 
Need one GA ticket for Georgia Tech. Call Mary 1263. 
------~---------­
I need USC tix. Call Tom Basile. 
233-8288. Part-time jar ·rial work available. Morn­ing hours rer med. Call Sweeney or Tony at Corby's { JJ-0438 after 2 p.m. 
Need ride back NO after break. ca11 leave from Phil .dei,Jhia-NYC area. Call Marti 277·2483 or 1715. 
NEED 1SOUTHERN CAL TICKET. ANN MAIERS 5439. 
Need ride to Omaha for Fall break. Call Colin, 8689. 
Need 2 GA USCor Navy tickets. Call Randy 8622. 
Wanted tide to central N.J. or close. Before or after USC. Call Mark 8785. 
Several young men to help us with a
promotion. Cash pay-no.door to door selling. Contact Miss Edie at the Knights
272-03~~_:72-8471.:._________ 
Brother and sister need ride to Cham­paign Ill. area after USC game. Will share expenses. Call4-5181 or 1811. 
8GA-Navytickets-tagolhe;-jfpos~ble.Will pay$. Call 288-0052 after 6 p.m. 
Desperate! Ride needed to New England 
or E. New York State for break. Will share gas, driving, and all expenses. Call
Mike 8327. 
2 female students to sublet campus view apt. call Kathy, 6781. 
Need ride to Terre Haute, Ind. after USC 
game. Will share expenses. Mark 3239. 
Need 4 tickets for southern Cal. game. Call Paul 1-219-745-2892 collect or Kim 232-7678 
Need 2 student tix for USC, for girls-friend and friend. 
An accurate, efficient secretary to work with students. Must be able to type 40 wpm and have good telephone voice. Call 
Joe or Rick at 6413 from 2_4 MWF. 
NEW ORLEANS. Looking for riders, Sun., after USC., heading south to N.O., via Louisville, Nashville, Birmingham. 
ca111378 Jay. 
5 GA Navy tickets. Call Phil 8762_ 
Desperate tor one Navy GA ticket. Call Bill 8858. 
~~~~~abe~( ~1~Wi~l ~~~~ ~y~~~~s~~ 
Call Tim 2197. 
Need ride to Southern tier of N.Y. after USC game. Willing to share expenses and driving. Please call Jill6446. 
WANTED: Desperately need four stu­dent or GA Georgia Tech tickets. 
Call Mary, 4-4764. 

NEED SIX GA CLEMSON tix. Call Leo 287-7051. 
NEED SIX SOUTHERN CALL TIX. MARK 287-7051. 
Desperately need 2 GA tickets to Georgia Tech. Call Suzy 5148. 
WANTED 2-4 USC Ga tickets. Call 288-0088 
So. Cal vx Nd football tickets. October 22 -Sport's Tour 3050 W. 7th Street, L.A. Calif. 90005. (213) 384-1951. Will pay$$. Also could use 4 tix for any home game. 
Need ride to St. louis for October Break. Call 4-4101. 
Wanted Need 2 general admission tickets for Georgia Tech. Call 4-4146. 
Desperately need ride to Ft. Lauderdale for October Break. 4--'101. 
Help Pam find Georg.a Tech tickets for family. 4032. 
Need 2 GA tix for US Call Jim 8708. 
Wanted: 5 USC tickets. ;all Paul at 1424. 
Desperately need 2 G.L Georgia Tech tix. Help! Call mike 1687 Need 2 USC tix G.A.. all Bill at 8270. 
Wanted -4 U.S.C. tickets. Will pay good money. 256-1487 
NEED 2 USC GA's. Will pay $$. Call
6863 Greg · WANTED 
lA GA . or student USC tix. Call Steph
4~5424 
Wanted: 4 USC tickets. Will pay good bucks. Call Jim at 1419. 
Need 2 Southern Cal Tix. Beth 272_ _
2340 

1WILL BE FOREVER TO YOU if you sell a pair (2) of G.A. tickets for the u.s.c. game. My parents want to come and cheer for Old Notre Dame. Will pay 
$$$$$.Call Mary 1313. 
wanted: one student usc tickets. Cali Chuck at 1436. 
WANTED: Desperately need 6G.A. tix to h c 11 Ch · 8 
any ome game. a ns at 115 . Need 4 USC G.A. tix. Will pay $. Call Ron, 1423. 
N d d [P f bl 1 GAt' k 
ee 2stu ent re era Y or 1c ets to USC. Call 5361 • Suzy. Need2-3GA;marriedstudentUSCtix. c 1341
all 256-· 1 GA ticket for USC. Call 3060. 
Need-;d 4USC-GAtlckets-:-caiiJim-8376. 
Hoeny, header for Dixie over break?
Need ride to Memphis area. Call Adelia 
7812. Will share expenses.
ln~7ide;-trom NvCane7oibreak. 
Call 2722. 
Need many USC GA tickets. U.You have them 1will buy them. Call Tom 234-0980 eveinings. 
Need two tickets to Clemson game. Call
Dennis 8985_ 
Need 2 USC tix. preferably student. Call 288 8417 ft 'd ight 
_ _:_ __~...:_r-~~-_:_______ f b k
1

NYC or ll swhere want to go or rea . Shar:_exr ~nses.~oe~256__:________ Needed .Jadly: A ride from Chicago to 
C 111747

~~Friday:._~--~-------­
· We: :1ted: 4G.A. tickets for Southern Call. 
od Wi'l pay go bucks. Call 1423, ask for Mike. 
USC student or GA tix wanted. West 
coast clients will pay premium. 272-7360 after 6 p.m. 
Addressers Wanted Immediately! Work at home -no experience necessary ­excellent pay. Write American Service, 835t'J Park Lane, Suite 269, Dallas, TX 
75231. 
WANTED: 4tickets together to any home game. Call289-9530 (Debbie) after 6p.m. 
Need 2 GA Georgia Tech tickets. Call Kathy 4-4348. 
Need ride -CINCINNATI area after Desperate! Ride needed to New England I I
USC game. Will gladly share expenses. or E. New York State for break. Will 
I

Call Therese Ann 7905. 
share gas, driving, and all expenses. Call I Mike 8327. I
Need 4 GA or student USC tickets. Call I John 1757. 
WANTED: 2 female students to sublet ; campus view apt. Call Kathy, 6781. 
1

TOP PAY FOR 2 USC GA tix. Call Jacob 
I

8720. 
Need ride to Terre Haute, lnd, after USC 1 game. Will share expenses. Mark 3239. I 
Need 2 tickets Clemson Game. Call Pete' I Mellon. 7287-6023 night. 288-9161 x401 i Need 4 tickets for Southern Cal I
came.

Day.D • I
Call Paul, 1-219-745-2892 collect, or Kim 
I 

. 284-5369. 
I

We need tix to Navy game. Please call 
I

289-6255. . 
Need 2student tix for USC, for girlfriend 1 
1
Need 2 GA Air Force tix. Call Claire. • and friend. I 289-6533. Wanted: An accurate efficient secretary I, to work with students. Must be able to 
Need USC tickets. Will pay excellent type 40 wpm and have good telephone 1 
1

price. Call Dan 1598. 
voice. Call Joe or Rick at 6413 from 2-4 1
I 
MWF. . I Wanted: 2 or 4 GA Georgia Tech tix.' i I 
PLEASE!' Call Ann. 6859. Will exchange two 6th (sixth) row Steve I 
I

Miller tickets for 2good CSM tickets. Call 
Wanted: 2 GA USC tickets. Call 3695. I
Kevin at 1725. 
I

Jim I I
URGENT: Need ride for 2 to Boston area PERSONALS 
I

anytime af.ter USC game. Will share 
I

driving and expenses! PLEASE call Mary Dear Steve. 
I 

or Sue -8085 . Happy 20th birthday. Thank you for I having shared three of those twenty years I 
Need ride from North-central New Jersey with me. Love, Dawn I to ND after break. Oct. 30. Will share P.S. Thanks for walking me home & I 
I

expenses. Please call 8085. straightening me out Sunday night. I 
I need a ride for two to D.C. area for ------------------I
I

Reward: Priceless homecoming packagebreak. Leave Sun 23rd. Tom 8329. 
I

for the finder of Helen of Troy. 
I 

PfqH' f'S LOVE IN JEOPARDY. Des­CUTE MD GOOD CONVERSATIONAL­I 
p~ .+'-•1 need 2 GA Navy tickets. Steve I
IST despe. 3tely needs ride to and from 
I

~""-Phi ladelpt..? area Oct. break. shared 
I

expenses to J! Pat 5246. 
I

Ride needed for Oct. break to North 
------------------I
Jersey/NYC area. Call Bruce 3587. 
Anyhone who lives in Park Jefferson I TYPIST WANTED: Full time, to typeset Apts!leas:_cal~teve~~47~----1 display advertising, Monday and Wed-I· 
nesday thru Saturday afternoon and/or Girls, once in a lifetime chance! Stanford 1 evenings. Hourly pay. Experience help-Hall, Section 2 North-South is now taking 1 ful, but not necessary. Apply in person applications for an evening of SHEER 1 at: The Penny Saver, 2102 s. Michigan ECSTASY. Dates are now being sought I St., South Bend, 288-1411. for the Nov. 5 CSN concert. Seats are I 
available on the main floor in rows 2-7: I Desparately need ride to Binghamton, center stage!! If interested, call: Rooms I 
~a: ~~~rri~~~g~~~--Will share expen-~~: ffY· 2~~·0~~~t f~~et~:il ~~~e~~ji I 
------------------I WANTED: 4 usc Tixs. Will pay big Happy 20th 8-day Steve Stone! 1 bucks. Call 8341. xoxoxo, Princess I 
The Lusty Italian, Klingei-Dingle & 2nd 1 Need 4 GA USC tickets and 2 student. floor_McCandles_s----------I Kathy, 272-3634. 
Downs -Here's your first of the year. : Need 2 USC GA tix. Will pay$$. 4-4438. Have a good week. M.B. • 1 
1 

Need ride from central New York back to Moe Reynolds has been stricken with the I Notre Dame after October break. Will fatal Arts & Letters Syndrome. Send : share whatever. Call Mark 1852. condolences to 234 Badin, but don't 1 
mentio~the_malady.________ 1 NEED RIDE TO BLOOMINGTON TO 1 SEE DEAD. Sun Oct 31. JB 8946. Wanted 2 or 3 student or GA tickets for 1 
SC game. Call Rich 1173. 1 
WANTED: Ride to NYC area for October ------------------I break. Will share driving and expenses. To the space hooker of LeMans. Thanks I Call Jim at 1436. for an evening of Galactic funk and I 
space-al delights. 600 Krudgalies Pwhat I Wanted: Ride to NYC area for October ~bargain~~ar~----------1 break. Will share driving and expenses. 1 . d' t 1
0
Call rAy at 1436. amse s m IS ress, 1 We will never tire of you. Hope there are 1
WANTED: 3 usc tickets. Call Rod at many more Goodyears between us. 1 1461. Looking forward to servir~ you again, I ___________Th~avaknights II 
Need 1-3 GA USC tickets. Big money. Call Kevin 8713. Rock, I
Happy Birthday! Go out &celebrate but I
d 't d th' d 't t M th I
Need ride back to N.D. from Miami U., on oany mg you on wan o er 1 Cincinnati area after break. John 8981. Stone to know! Moonwind 
I 

Parents coming from Seattle for first big ------------------I visit to N.D. Need 2 GA tix to Georgia Julie, I
T h I'm gl d 1't to d rai · g Sat 'ght I 
ec . Martha H. 4-4728. a s ppe nm · m · 
Need ride to Massachusetts. Will share --------------Pete ! usual. Call Tom 1485. Dear John, 1
Thanks for (finally) acknowledging your 1 Looking for 2GA tickets to USC. Call Joe, birthday personal. You are now forgiven. 1 
· BJ 1
234 
evenmgs. -Q980 ------------------1 1 
Will trade student SC ticket and ! money Speaking of acknowledging personals, I 1 for 2 Georga Tech GA's. Call 233-7604. know several people who haven't!!! This 1 
· eq · me t f t rth r 1 
1

IS a r Ulre n or u er pe sona s, or Need one G.A. Ticket for Georgia Tech. for further abuse, so get with it! -G 1 
1

Call Mary, 1263· Anyone-who -wants-;knowit-5'4" 1 
I need USC the Call Tom Basile. blue-eyed, blonde-haired Cheryl made I 233-8288 her red coat please call 6444. I 
· -----------------­Part-time janitorial work available--Morn-To Poster Child: I ing hours required. Call Sweeney or Tony Sorry we forgot you in the last personal. .. I 
at Corby's 233-Q438 afrter 2 p.m. have you spilled a beer today? 1 
AF and JK I Need ride back to NO after break. Can ------------------I 
leave from Philadelphia-NYC area. Call Ten keg party Thursday honoring the first I Marti 2n-2483 or 1715. anniversary of the Sorin Seven. 1018 N. I Eddy. Do drop Inn. I1 NEED 1 SOUTHERN CAL TICKET ------------------­
ANN MALERS 5439. Tom Mouch, l 
Guess who called Saturday!! She hates I NEED RIDE TO OMAHA for Fall break. N.D. Also, have thought of a topic for my 1 Call Colin. 8689. lecture. Let me know when. G 1
1 Need 2 G.A. usc or navy tickets. Call Happy belated B-day EDDIE HOUG~1 I Randy 8622. ERY! Hope it was great-sorry I wasn t I there. Having super time In Mexie>o. 1 Wanted. Ride to central N.J. 01' close. Senorita Carol 1 Before or after USC. Call Mark, 8785. ------------------1 1 Wanted: Several young men to help us I 
~:. ~r~~~t~o~n~~t5';:J Ed~fed~~~ Continued on page:JIO
I Knights. 272-o312 or 272-8471. 
, -•••••==••-•----=•==-••=•---=•=•••••• u•• • r ••=••--====•••=• •==---=~-•===-•=••••
~~--~---..--=--·------~--~~.. -::~::;:::;;;;;;;;;;;;~ 
12 the observer 
Harriers split double-dual 
• 
by Anile Christine Masullo Sports Writer 
Saturday, the Notre Dame cross country team hosted a double-dual meet against Western Michigan and Loyola, The Irish split the meet falling to Western Michigan by a score of 21-38, but emerged victorious over the Loyola harriers by a score of 17-46. 
The winning individualist in Saturday's race was Western Mich­igan's 'Fom Duits who aided his teammates in their victory over Notre Dame. The Irish, however, proved to match these skills with fine performances by freshmen Chuck Aragon and Charles Fox, sophomores Peter Berger and Mark Novak, and junior Joe Stroh­man. 
Notre Dame' strategy was hand­icapped in the double duel by the 
I 
I 
I, 
Flanner shuts out Grace 1n 1nterhall action 
I. 
by Terence Mannion 
i 
Sports Writer
I. 
As the regular season draws to a close, every game played takes on
I great importance to all teams with 
I playoff hopes. In Sunday's seven
I games, Holy Cross upended Zahm,
I 6-0, Stanford rolled by Cavanaugh,
I 16-0, Flanner blanker Grace, 12-0, Off-Campus took Dillon from the
I ranks of the undefeated, 12-0,
I Fisher swept past Sorin, 18-0, St. 
I Ed's downed winless Pangborn,
I 8-0, and Alumni edged Morrisey,
I 8-7. 
I Flanner simply overpowered
I, Grace in the battle for football 
I: supremecy of the two towers. On the first play of the game from
~JI scrimmage, Dave Brassard threw a 65 yard strike to Marty Dytrych for a quick six and an early lead. 
I 
j Grace, not to be outdone, picked up . 45. yards on a reverse to Frank t ~ J\jast during its first possession'! b!'tcould not punch the ball in for 
the score. J From that point on Flanner was 
' I ; never truly challenged. Brassard i tossed another touchdown pass, I this time for 60 yards, to AI i i Shumacker. Rich Neville at defen­sive end and Tom Soisson at cornerback nailed down the shut­out. Fullback Pat Cuneo helped keep the Grace defense honest with a consistent runnin,g attack. Although Zahm pressured Holy
' 
1 
~ Cross with offensive drives, the 
"Holy Cross defense was too strong to be penetrated. A 35 yard touchdown pass from Bob Cannon to Matt Pankow coupled with the running of halfback Joe Chase was all the Holy Cross team needed in ~heir effort against Zahm. 
Not to go without credit is the 3oly Cross defense which, through an exce11ent team effort, halted Zahm three times inside their own 20 yard line to protect their slim lead. 
Defensive stalwart Mike Stenger stood out, with a fine performance at the Monster Man position, as he plugged up the middle and slowed Holy Cross' outside running game. Holy Cross also threatened with drives that brought them inside the Zahm 10 yard line twice, but both times Zahm held to keep the game close to the end. 
In the second game of the day, Stanford utilized a potent offensive machine to drop Cavanaugh. Stanford's offensive line opened up holes consitently for tailback Ray Oliu and fullback John Badke as they feasted on the generosity of the Cavanaugh defense. 
Cavanaugh, whose record dropped to 1-4, did not threaten to score throughout the contest and showed very little offensive punch overall. On the other hand, Stanford, behind their offense and the defensive work of Dom Garda, took control and never left the victory in doubt. 
Off-Campus tripped Dillon with. fine individual performances from a host of 0-C players. Off-Campus' first score came on a four yard run oy Dave Betlach in the second quarter. 
Besides scoring once, Betlach 1 absence of several top performers. Cross. Country stars Dennis Van­
derkraats and Steve Welch were both out of the race due to previously sustained injuries. Two additional runners for the Irish, Dan Horgan and Pat Sullivan, were unable to complete the race with their teammates because of cramps. 'JNot having Dennis· and Steve really hurt us," head coach Joe Piane stated. "But we're not making excuses because we really didn't run well as a team." 
,_ 

Past performances by the Irish have illustrated the team's strengths and abilities. Notre Dame triumphed over Purdue by a score of 22-37. The Irish then went on to annihilate Michigan State 16-46. 
In the Notre Dame Invitational, the Fighting Irish captured fourth place out of twenty teams in the Blue Division. This was an improvement of nine places over last year's finish. After Saturday's race, the Notre Dame cross country team stands with an overall record of four wins and one loss. 
The team is optomistic about their next meet,the Indiana State Championship. The competition will be hosted by Notre Dame this Friday October 21, on Burke Mem­orial Golf Course. Other top teams from the state will oppose the Irish in Friday's race. 
"I think it wiiJ probably come down to two teams'' speculated Piane,' 'Indiana and Notre Dame. However, I expect Ball State and Purdue to be tough. We're really confident that if the guys run as well as they are capable of running we'll win. 
had an exce11ent overall game as he playoffs. compiled chunks of yardage on Dino Carbone scored once and every carry. The second 0-C score threw for two touchdowns as Fisher came on a 10 yard pass from blasted Sorin. Fumbling the ball quarterback Matt Ratterman to away time after tim(~ led Sorin to its Tony Miller in the fourth quarter. demise. Carbon~ capitalized on The tally sealed the victory for the Sorin's inability to maintain pos­Off-Campus team. session by taking the ball in once 
Stifling the Big Red offense were himself and twice throwing 20 yard linebacker Pete Riley, who calls touchdown passes to Bob Musson defensive signals, and prospective and Tony Crudele, respectively. 
Ali-Interhall defensive end, Arnold Defensively, Rocky StapletonGough, who pressured the signal played an outstanding game andcaller and contained Dillon's run­defensive end Tonv Lucia control­ning backs throughout the contest. 
led the Sorin offense for Fisher 
Dillon's loss coupled with St. 
while recovering two fumbles.
Ed's win sets up a key game, Also worthy of note is Andymatching these two teams on 
Entwistle, who played a steadyWednesday. The winner of the St. 
game at defensive back and inter-
Ed's-DilJon will in all likelihood cepted a pass.
represent the South Quad in the 
St. Ed's strengthened its 

Freshman runner Chuck Aragon crossed the line fourth for the Irish in Saturday's split with Western Michigan and Loyola of Chicago. 
Ted Robinson =========================================================================================:====================================================================================================================================================================================================================== 
NBA Preview 
================================================================================= =============== ============= =============== ====== ============================ =================================:=:=:============== =::::::============:========================:=============:==================== ::: 0 n e Man 's View 
chances for a playoff spot on the wings of its victory over Pangborn. St. Ed's never let up as their offense drove consistently and their defense held Pangborn to only one first down. Dan Tranel ran nine yards for the only score of the game and Greg Oberland hit John Dzimi­nski for the two point conversion for the remaining score. 
Mike· Tranel played a notable 
game at center for St. Ed's and on the defense, Jim Bowers domina­ted at defensive tackle. The only 
h

consolation for Pangborn was t e 
competent job done by Mark Shepard who stepped into the quarterback position for the first 
time this year. 
In the final game of the day, Alumni slipped by Morrissey on a 
last second tally. Morrissey scored 
their only touchdown in the second 
quarter on a forty yard aerial connection between quarterback Jim Byrne and Roy Marrero. Yet with time running out, Alumni did not die. Only 14 seconds remained when Terry Hawkins dropped back and hit Joe Botticello on a halfback delay for 15 yards and a score. 
Mike Van Acker then scored two on arun as Alumni captured their victory. Besides scoring the 
winning points, Van Acker also played well at middle linebacker. For Morrissey, Tom Bosche picked up good yardage at halfback. This 
was the second game in a row in which Alumni has won in the final minute of the game. 
The NBA finally grew up last year. They learned that those teams with the red white and blue basketball and three-point line could play with the "big b~ys". In fact, four of the 10 starters in the Philadelphia-Portland championship series last year were ABA players. 
Now that the indoctrination period is over, the NBA can worry about playing basketball and not District Attorney. Only one franchise moved in the off-season, as the Nets abandoned Long Island for the greener pastures of Piscataway, New Jersey. Otherwise it's shaping up to be a normal NBA season, one in which most of the news will be made on the court instead of in court. Atlantic Division: PhDadelphia: Julius Erving and his cohorts learned a valuable lesson in last year's playoff Joss to Portland--you can only ~lay with one ba~ketball at a time The Sixers will fall under the leadership of the Doc th1s year, instead ~f George McGinnis, and that should help this squad blend 1ogether. If Lloyd Free would Jearn to shoot from the offensi.ve side of the nirl-courtline the Sixers will have no trouble. Rumor has 1t that Darryl 
. . ' . · · -d h
Dawkms wdl be fed raw meat at each mtermrss1on m or er to save t e 
. . IBotvestoof oJpp~sm~ pl~iers. th. t h h d it th find a way to 
1 

b s n: b usk wD en.t apllphe~rs b ts . earn as(h a k, eDy Rl.ckles look 
ounce ac . esp1 e a 1s o noxiOusness e rna es on 
l.k · ) R d A b h -b k tb 11 • s HI' ta ·k thl·s year 1·s
1 e a mce guy , e uer ac IS a as e a gemu . s s to replace Sidney Wicks, which shouldn't be as difficult as it sounds. JoJo 
· -'II h t d t d d · th NBA 
Wh1te ts stl t e mos un erra .e. guar 10 e -. . . New York Kni~ks: New coach Wd.hs Ree~ and draft chotc~s R~y Wdhams, Glen G?ndre_zrck and Toby. Kmght wtll push. the Kmcks mto playoff conte~t10n. Jtm Cleamons wtl~ help~ the Frazte~-Monr~e backc~u~ duo was stmply too slow. The_ Kmcks '_"'11l count heavdy on Jim McMdhan to make a comeback after h1s sabb.atlcal. . . . Buffa!?: This team could set scortng ~ecords, b~t thet~ defense wtll co.nstst of yelhng at e~ch other to cover thetr man. Btlly Kmght, Nate Archl~ald an~ Randy Sm1th can shoot the eyes out.of the basket, but _none of t em enJoys defense. Swen Nater cat;t st~nd still an.d bl~k the middle, but the bench·, led by first team All-Stiff Jtm McDamels, IS su~pe~. . . Piscataway Nets: The best thing to say about this team is that they won't lose 60 games ·again. The main reason for the improvement will be the benching of Kim Hughes, last year's starting center who shot a torrid 24 from the foul line--with his eyes open. Bernard King and former Boston College star Bob Carrington have been the training camp surprises, because everyone else is worrying about the tenuous position of their paychecks. Central Division: 
Houston: A much-improved team last year that gave Philly quite a playoff scare. The raciid development of Moses Malone filled this team's greatest gap. Calvin Murphy, Mike Newlin and John Lucas are a solid backcourt trio. And Rudy Tomjanovich could easily be one of the best pure shooters in the history of the game. The Rockets should easily win their division, and cruise into a playoff rematch with the Sixers. aeveland: Can Clyde Frazier reach back for any more magic? That's why the Cavs acquired his enormous salary, so he better have something left. With a solid forward line and the radar shooting of Austin Carr, this club needs the leadership that Frazier can provide. WubJnatons Diet Motta proved that he is stUI one of the hardest coaches in the league to play for. FJvin Hayes almost carried this team on his back with a phenomenal year. The Bullets are banting on last year's rookie sen~ation, Larry Wright, and their top draft this year, Oregon's Greg 
Ballard, to step in and play major roles. They'll mate the playoffs, but not much more. 
San Antonio: Larry Kenon is on the verge of stardom for the under-publicized Spurs. Even without their top guard, James Silas, for most oflast year, they still qual~fied for the playoffs. George "Ice" Gervin shoots from the lobby, but consistently makes them (take Lloyd Free). They don't play much defense, but they'll beat a team up under the boards. Unfortunately, they'll have a tough time making the playoffs in their division. Atlanta: This will probably be the last year for the NBA in Atlanta, unless the situation drastically improves. Judging by the Hawks, it won't. John Drew is an AU-Pro and he knows it, but the loss of Truck Robinson to New Orleans destroyed any hopes of respectability. New O~eans: .Pete Maravich took 30% of t~e Jazz' sho~s last year. Now that he s ~armng !"egabucks, th~t figure wdl probably mcrease to 50. Truck Robmson wdl have somethmg to say about that. Top draft chOice Essie Hollis from St. Bonaventure will play a Jot, but there's no one in the middle. Midwest Division: Denver: Larry Brown cleaned house after the Nuggets' playoff loss to 
p rtl d B . T . rt d fr K c·t t th ff
o an . nan ay1or was 1mpo e om ansas 1 y o run eo ense, 
and he should lead the Nuggets to another divisional title. The only question is forward depth, especially since Tom LaGarde, the first-round 
. k fr N h C 1• h k h' h d t · d t b 
pte om ort aro ma , as a nee w tc was e ermine o e
d b tw th 1 b uKannsoun Cityy Tho. 0 erldcbu tsh. t. d 1 b · th NBA th' 'f 
sas : ts cou e e mos tmprove c u m e ts year 1 
Otis Birdsong is as good as his reviews claim. Tom Burleson and Sam Lacey are an awesome pivot duo and Rich Washington is blossoming slowly as a good pro' forward. Birdsong will have to step in and start alongside Ron Boone in order for the Kings to contend. Detroit: A great atmosphere for an ex-con like Marvin Barnes to rehabilitate. Intra-squad scrimmages must be blood-baths for the Pistons. If they ever decided to like Coach Herb Brown and play basketball, they could win their division. But, they won't, and they'll struggle into the playoffs. Watch for a Kevin Porter trade before long. Chicago: A good draft will help this team immensely in the long run. A full season from Scott May will also improve their record. In two years, the Bulls will be serious contenders but for now, the rookies (Olympian Tate Armstrong from Duke, Mark Landsberger from Arizona State, and Steve Sheppard from Maryland) will need some playing time. Milwaukee: Now Kent Benson will get a chance to prove he's as good as his press clippings claim. If he lives up to expectations, the Bucks could surprise some people. Dave Meyers wiJI have to recover from knee surgery to re~lace high-scoring Bob Dandridge, who signed with Washington as a free agent. Ernie Grunfeld and Marques Johnson wHI 
also see much playing time. Indiana: Not even Adrian Dantley can make the Pacers a contender. Trading Don Buse was a bi~ mistake, because it takes a special player to share back court with John Williamson. There also isn't a legitimate center. Pacific Division: Portland: Many experts doubt that the Blazers can repeat as division champs, let alone league champs. That's hard to understand, since they have the same club as last year. They couldn't sign their top draft choice, Rich Laurel from Hofstra, and that was no great loss. To belabor the obvious, the key is a healthy Bill Walton. Golden State: If AI Attles gives Robert Parish the starting center job on a permanent basis, the Warriors could be a dominant team. Wesley Cox could step in and land a starting forward berth after the loss of Jamaal Wilkes. That's the only weakness~ tcua.•ssp·=a.
[continued on page 101 




