


server 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's 1
1 ~onday, October 17, 1977

Vol. XII, No 35 
Logan funding completely reinstated 
by Frank Laurino 

The Indiana State Budget Com­mittee voted 5-0 last Friday to rein~tate all funding to the state's 62 Mental Retardation and De­velopmental Disabilities (MRDD) centers. According to Aloysius Soenneker, executive director of the Council for the Retarded of St. Joseph County, an $18 million budget has been approved, includ­ing a $700,000 allotment to the Logan Center. 
"I'm glad this issue is now out of politics," said Soenneker. " Now we can give good quality care to the handicapped.'' 
The Indiana General Assembly had originally approved the MRDD budget request for $21 million. That request was denied in September by the Budget Com­mittee, who instead proposed allo­cating $11.3 million to the MRDD, a $1.7 million decrease from the 1976 fiscal year. 

Demonstrators present petition 
A grounds crew member led a demonstration on the Administration steps on Friday afternoon in 
which petitions supporting the stand of the workers were presented to Father Hesburgh. 
Approximately 200 members of the Notre Dame community listened to the remarks of the 
groundskeeper and then marched into the Administration building. Faculty members, 
university employees, and students comprised the sympathetic crowd. [Photo by John Calcutt] 
Victims of Nlorrissey fire move back in 
by Lou Severino 

Two Morrissey residents whose room was completely destroyed in a Sept. 10 fire have returned to Morrissey after an absence of five weeks. 
The students, Bob Onda and Jeff Phinnes, stayed at Moreau Semin­ary until workmen finished re­modeling their room last week. Both students' losses were covered under their parents' homeowners insurance policies. 
According to Phinnes, he and his roommate lost their entire ward­robe, a stereo, television, refrigera­tor, golf clubs and some furniture, including a sofa and two lamps. 
After making estimates of their losses and having the room check­ed by an insurance investigator, both Onda and Phinnes received settlements from their respective insurance companies. "I was pretty satisfied, although a lot of things I lost couldn't be replaced," Phinnes said. 
After staying in a friend's room for the remainder of the weekend, the two students moved to Moreau where they each received single rooms. 
Onda said Moreau had its good and bad points. "The good points were the friendly, helpful people there, while the bad side was being taken out of the student scene," he explained. But both Onda and Phinnes emphasized that the­people at Moreau made them feel comfortable during their stay at the seminary. 
[Continued on page 2] R-2-D-2, droid of Star Wars fame, made a special appearance at the Beaux Arts Ball in the Architecture building Saturday night. [Photo by John Calcutt] 


\. t... • 
• tjf '''I. 

Jack Greeley, Logan Center administrative assistant, announc­ed Sept. 22 that the proposed cutback would force Logan to lay off 30 to 35 staff members and curtail services to 100 clients. 
Soenneker stated yesterday that the Budget Committee's unanim­ous reversal of its controversial decision would provide Logan Center with sufficient funds to retain its entire staff. He also reported that no services would be discontinued. 
"In fact, we now hope to serve clients we formerly could not assist,'' the executive director said. 
"Not only will the existing programs be continued, but we can proceed with our program expan­sions as well." 
According to Soenneker, those expansions include an addition of 24 patients to the Residential Services Program, an increase of 20 patients in the Adult Rehabilitation Program, and the introduction of physical therapy services at Logan Industries. 
Logan Industries, a workshop serving 190 adults, is a subsidiary of the Council for the Retarded of Logan Center, $500,000 will come from the state, while the remainder will be appropriated from Title XX funds. Title XX funds are federal and state assistance of MRDD services for lower income citizens and welfare recipients. 
St.  Joseph  County,  Inc.,  as  is  
Logan Center.  
Of  the  $700,000  allocated  to  

According to Soenneker, the new statewide budgf.:t will be sponsored by both the state and federal governments. He explained that the state will provide about $7.5 million--equal to last fiscal year-­while the federal government will increase its assistance from last year's $6 million to $10.5 million. 
Soenneker explained that all available state funds have been used in the MRDD's supplemental appropriations, posing a problem for the next fiscal year. 
"We'll probably have to go through the same problems next year," he said. "However, this issue will be brought before the State Assembly as soon as it meets next January." 
Soenneker said he shared his fellow MRDD directors' reactions to the Friday decision. I'm very pleased," he said. "I hope that State Budget Committee has learn­ed not to play politics with the handicapped. 
United Way Drive termed major success 
by Peggy McGuire Staff Reporter 

Close to 70 percent of the Notre Dame students living on campus gave approximately $4,000 to the United Way in last week's fund drive. Organizers of the campaign, Bro. Joseph McTaggart, associate director of Volunteer Services and 
J.P. Russell, senior, said that they will release the official figures tomorrow after completing all tabu­lations. 
Both Russell and McTaggart termed the drive "a tremendous success." McTaggart said, "It is obvious that we have achieved a major success in obligation to the city. We are residents of South Bend, and we have responded extremely well." 
McTaggart and Russell organ­ized this year's United Way drive. Early this fall, both were asked by Charles Wilber, professor of eco­nomics, to organize the student campaign. Wilber was appointed Notre Dame director of United Way by the Provost last spring. 
Both McTaggart and Russell met seven weeks ago to form a new structure for the drive. According to Russell, the framework for the campaign in previous years was "haphazard." 
"Halls would set up a box by the front hall. or stage some sort of event to collect the money," he explained. "The goal was always the amount collected rather than individual participation.'' 
The goal of this year's campaign was "to contact every student on campus in a personal, one-to-one ~asis, and ask him or her to give at 
· least one dollar to the United Way," Russell said. 
Russell stated that another change in this year's format was that the campaign went "for one concentrated week with daify updates in The Observer," rather than Ute previous month-long drive 
4' ••. 
where "all of the halls were collecting at different times." 
Two weeks ago, Russell and McTaggart addressed the HaiJ Presidents' Council and advised each hall's president and commu­nity service commissioner to organ­ize a door-to-door campaign. Barometers indicating student par­ticipation in the individual dormi­tories were posted in The Observer throughout the week. 
Russell said that the idea was ''to tap each residence halls' sense of community spirit and see ifa hall was able to rally behind a very worthwhile cause.'' 
"Many halls saw the campaign as a matter of hall pride and image and really gave it all they had to give," he commeted. 
McTaggart said that the new framework for the drive worked very well. "This year's response was excellent," he stated. "There were a few wrinkles in the process, 
but they  can  be easily corrected  
next year."  
McTaggart  cited  the· appoint­ 

ment of a full-time student coordi­nator as one necessary improve­ment. "J.P. Russell worked exceedingly hard on this drive, and he is to be commended," he said. "However, we both hope and will 
recommend that a full-time student director be appointed next year.'' 
"We've set the basic framework in this year's drive," McTaggart stated, adding that improvements for next year's campaign will lie in underlining the hall's responsibil­ities. "The key now is in the individual halls," he said. 
Participation varied from 100 percent in Carroll to 34 percent in Dil.lon. Peter Visceglia, a section leader in Dillon who collected money for the drive, said, "The drive in Dillon was definitely well-organized. At a Hall Council meeting, section leaders were 
[Continued on page 7] 


-. --~__..-----~ __...~ 
--~--------------......-~--­

2 the observer ----· Monday, October 17, 1977_:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::Campus Briefs :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::. 
,_News Briefs ____.........,_. 
l========::::::::::::==World 
Castro not Jamacain tourist 
KINGSTON• Jamaica --Cuban President l'telel Castro said last night he came to Jamaica not as a tourist but as a "revolutionary" and "brother" to strengthen ties between the Jamaican and Cuban peoples, separated by 90 miles of Caribbean sea. Castro said he wanted "to work for the deepening bonds of solidarity betweenthe people of Jamaica and the people of Cuba." 
1==================::::::::::::======== National 
Little escapes 
RALEIGH, N.C. --Joan Little, who escaped from a prison over the weekend, was under too much pressure because of publicity she drew two years ago when she was acquitted in-the death of a jailer she said had assaulted her, an attorney says. Little, serving a 7-to-10-year sentence on a burglary conviction, escaped from the North Carolina Correction Cente for Women on Saturday. 

Busin.ess wants consistency 
HOT SPRINGS, Va. --Top businessmen say the best thing Presi­dent Carter could do for the economy is spell out a consistent economic program, even if it is anti-business. At their twice-yearly meeting this weekend, corporation chairmen were not hostile to Carter. Instead, the 120-member Business Council expressed confusion about the President's economic plans. 

Weather 
Mostly sunny and cool today, with highs in the mid to upper SO's. Fair and cool tonight, with lows in the upper 30's. Tomorrow, partly sunny with highs in the upper SO's to low 60's. 
~On Campus Today_--"~ 
3:30pm 
3:30pm 
4 pm 7:30pm 
6 pm career workshop, resume clinic with karen o'neil and mary ann daly, spon. by smc career development center, lemans student affairs conf. rm. 
seminar, "electron probe microanalysis using energy dispersive x-ray spectroscopy," dr. nicholas 
c. barbi, princeton gamma-tech., inc., spon. by metallurgical engr. dept., rm. 5 eng. bldg. 
civilization film series, "protest and communica­tion," carroll hall, smc 
lecture, vincent bugliosi, chief prosecutor of charles manson and author of helter skelter, spon. by suac, wash. hall. 
lecture, "capital and technology in less developed countries: capital," dr. arnold harberger, univ. of chicago, spon. by econ. dept., rm. 122 hayes healy. 

Trip chainnan urges seniors to buy· travelers checks 
by Lou Severino 

Senior trip Chairman Tom O'Neill strongly urged all seniors making the trip to obtain travelers checks for the Oct. 23 excursion to San Francisco. 
O'Neill called San Francisco "a tourist town where many people try to take advantage of unsuspecting visitors." He added, "By using travelers checks, students will eliminate the possibility of losing cash, thereby making the trip more enjoyable.'' 
Travelers checks may be pur­


r!:.~;..,?~~:verl 
Asst. Night Editor: Rosemary 
Mills 
layout Staff: Kathy Mills 
Editorial Layout: Kevin 
Sweeney Sports layout: Paul Stevenson 
Typists:  Mark  Rust,  Anne  
Giere, Suzy Plavac,  Leigh  
Tunakan  

Night Controller: Mardi Nevin Day Editor: Mike Lewis Copy Reader: Phil Cackley
l Photographer: John Calcutt ) 
The Observer Is publls"-d Mon­dey through Fridey ax~t d11rtng uem end vaatlon periods. The Observer Is publish~ by the students of Notre Deme end Selnt Mery's College. Subsatptlons mey be purchesed for no per yeer ($ 10 per semester) from The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre 
Deme, lndlen. 46556. 
s-" 

clell postege peld, Notre Deme, lndlene, 46556. 
The Observer Is e member of the AIIOcllted Press. All ,...,... !Nictlon rlthts ere reserved. 
chased at several South Bend banks for a nominal fee. According to lll'spokesman for the St. Joseph Bank, the fee is one dollar for every $100 of checks. 
The spokesman also added that the St. Joseph Bank would accept student's out of town checks for amounts ranging up to $400, as payment for travelers checks. 
However, a spokesman for the Notre Dame Cashiers Office recommended that students cash their checks on campus, before going to a bank for travelers checks, to avoid any problems which might arise. 
O'Neill also asked all students going on the trip to attend a meeting tonight at 7 in the En­gineering Auditorium. Everyone must sign a waiver sheet at this meeting in order to make the trip. 

Observer 
deadline set 
Thursday's issue of The Obser­ver will be the last before October break. No advertisements will be accepted for this issue after 5 p.m. tomorrow. The next issue after Thursday will be Nov. 1. 
Nelson to read 
poetry at /USB 
Paul Nelson, poet and visiting 
member of the IUSB English 
faculty, will read some of his poems 
tonight at IUSB. Nelson is on a 
year's leave from Goddard, where 
he has taught for the past nine 
years. 

He has published three books of 
poetry; Cargo, Ice, and Average 
Nights. A fourth book is now near 
completion. He has had poems 
published in The Iowa Review, 
Tri-Quarterly, Poetry Northwest 
and Esquire. 
The reading tonight will begin at 
7:30 and will take place in the lounge opposite the cafeteria in IUSB's Administration Building (formerly Associates). Admission is free. All are welcome to attend. 
Cash prize offered for best artide 
A $500 cash prize will be awarded by the American Health Foundation's quarterly journal to the student author of the best original paper on the subject of preventive medicine. A runner-up prize of $200 is also being awarded. Winning papers will be published in the Journal. 
The deadline for the receipt of the paper is January 31, 1978, and the contest is open to any student (except post doctoral students) currently enrolled in undergradu­ate course in medicine, public health, epidimology, life sciences, the social sciences, the behavioral sciences, economics, law or business. 
For entry forms and information, write The Editorial Office, Ameri­can Health Foundation, 1370 Avenue of the Americas, New 
NEW IN SOUTH BEND 
COSIMO'S HAIR DESIGNS 
FOR MEN & WOMEN 
COSIMO, ROSE & SUE ARE YOUR HAIR DESIGNERS 
for APPT. call 277-1875. Mon-Sat 8 to 6 
Next to the Distillei] 
York, New York 10019. 
The American Health Founda­
tion is a private, non-profit 
research organization based in New 
York, dedicated to reduce unneces­
sary death and illness through 
research, education and the promo­
tion of good health. 
Meeting for demonstrators 
For those interested in organi­zing a demonstration against Anita Bryant's visit, scheduled for Oct. 27, there will be a meeting tomor­row at 7 p.m. For further informa­tion, call 289-6523 or 288-0296. 
Elkan to participate in American Scene 
\ 

Gerald H. Elkan will participate tomorrow in the American Scene Series at Saint Mary's College. He will give a lecture on "The World Protein Shortage" at 7:30 p.m. in Carroll Hall. His lecture is part of the National Science Foundation Bicentennial Program on "Science and Society" administered by Sigma XI. 
Elkan is professor of microbi­ology and asststant dean for research at North Carolina State University in Raleigh. 
Fire victims return 

!Continued &om page 1] 
Work on the students' roo began the Monday after the fir 
and entailed "almost total pairs," according to Fr. Raymon Holtz, Morrissey rector. The University workmen had to rebuil the walls, build new door and window frames, put in new tiles, and repaint the room. 
Phinnes said he and his room­mate were very pleased with the finished product and praised the speed and efficiency of the Univer­
sity workmen. 
Both Onda and Phinnes describ­ed the fire and its aftermath as ''a learning experience." "We would like to thank all those who helped us, especially the residents o Lyons who took up a collection for us, and the guys from Morrissey who helped us in many ways," 

CLASS OF 79 
Any off-campus juniors interested in being on the Junior f'dvisory Council, contact Sue Flanigan 
(6232) or Andy McKenna (7181) 
Any juniors interested in the Junior Academic Committee should contact Don (1147) 
or Larry (3070) by Tuesday Oct. 18 
---------~-....-----------------... 
Monday, October 17, 1977 the observer
Survey may give answers 
~-----~~ 



Shuttle service future still uncertain 
by Anne Bacble is still being looked into, and an Since she noted that students having the shuttle," Fuch com­Student Government was given increase in fares, which Fuchs feels who have to wait a while for the bus mented, adding that withdrawal of till Nov. 26 to get all students to 
The future of the shuttle service between Notre Dame and St. Mary's on evenings and weekends is still uncertain, according to St. Mary's Co-exchange Com­
missioner Mary Ann Fuchs. She hopes, however, that results of a ridership survey taken during the past two weeks will help provide some answers. 
The shuttle service, which is 
financed equally by Notre Dame 
and St. Mary's. has incurred 
mounting losses recently because 
students have not been paying the 
15 cent fare required on evenings 
after 6 p.m., and on weekends. 
One possible solution is curtail­
ment of service during the hours 
when the shuttle is little used. In 
an effort to determine these times, 
the co-ex commissioners from both 
schools arranged to have a student 
on the bus at all times during one 
week to record the number of 
passengers, where they got on and 
off, whether they paid, and how 
punctual the bus was. 
This was accomplished through 
cooperation of St. Mary's Board of 
Governance and the Ombudsman. 
Results from the study will be used 
to decide where to limit service and 
to decide whether smaller busses 
would help. 
Other alternatives being consid­
ered are a limousine service, which 
Junior Parents Weekend planned 
by AI Leverone 

Notre Dame's 26th annual Junior Parents' Weekend will take place on the weekend of Feb. 24-26. The organizational committee, headed by John Simari, has planned sev­eral events highlighted by a special Mass and dinner on Saturday evening. 
The weekend will open with a cocktail party Friday night at the ACC. On Saturday, each college of the University will sponsor work­shops, giving parents the chance to meet with professors and deans on an informal basis. 
After the workshops, a Mass and liturgy for juniors, parents, and University officials will take place at Sacred Heart church. The ser­vice will be followed by a Presiden­tial Dinner, at which Fr. Theodore Hesburgh, University president will speak. ' 
According to Simari, no times have been set for the Mass and dinner, due to NBC's decision to move the nationally televised ND­Marquette basketball game to 4:00 that afternoon. 
The dinner itself will probably be held either at Stepan Center or Century Center in South Bend. Both locations are capable of serving the nearly 2,000 expected guests. 
The events will come to a close Sunday morning with a private breakfast for parents and students, probably at the North Dining Hall. 
Simari stressed that there is no 
need for students to make hotel 
reservations for their parents. The 
committee will send out reservation 
forms by Thanksgiving. Any 
parents wishing to stay at the 
Morris Inn will be asked to add a 
second choice of hotels. A lottery 
will be held later for rooms at the 
Inn, as they are limjted. 
Simari also stated that, at the . present moment, the ACC has no tickets available for parents who might wish to attend Saturday's basketball game against Mar­quette. _ 
Any juniors with questions are asked to call either John Simari at 8595, or Andy McKenna at 7181. 
Bugliosi to speak 
Vincent Bugliosi, chief pr~secu-1 tor in the Manson trial, will speak tonight at 7:30 in Washington Hall. The lecture is sponsored by the Student Union Academic Commis­sion and admissiou is free. 
would defeat the purpose of the are sometimes less inclined to pay, shuttle since fewer students would she has also distributed complete ride. shuttle schedules to all St. Mary's 
Signs have been posted on both students, and posted the schedules campuses reminding students to in the lobbies of all the halls at pay the fare. Fuchs also said the Notre Dame. busdrivers have been reminded not "Ifstudents don't pay the fare, it to let anyone ride who refuses to will demonstrate to both schools pay. that they really don't care about 
Adrian Bryttan and the Notre Dame orchestra will present "Evil 
in Music" tomorrow [for children] at 7:30p.m. and Wednesday 

Student orchestra to perform concert for Halloween season 
The Notre Dame Orchestra will present a program entitled"Evil in Music'at 8:15 p.m. Wednesday in Washington Hall. The program will be played at 7:30 p·.m. Tuesday, also in Washington Hall, in an informal version for children. There is no admission charge for either program. 
The Notre Dame Orchestra, directed by Adrian Bryttan, is a full sixty piece orchestra made up almost entirely of students from Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. It includes graduate and undergraduate music majors at Notre Dame, musicians whose primary emphasis is in another 
,field, and students from the Notre Dame Music Department's Preparatory Program. 
In keeping with the Halloween season each piece on Wednesday's concert refers to a legend or evil character. Saint-Saens' "Danse Macabre" describes a night of revelry by dead souls, who disperse at dawn with the cock's crow. Humperdinck's "Hansel and Gretel Overture" is taken from the opera based on the well known tale. 

Sibelius' "Swan of Tuonela" is from a set offour works inspired by the Kalevala, the Finnish national epic. The work evokes the image of the sacred bird floating serenely on the great river of Tuonela, the Underworld of the Dead. The 
CONGRSGATION OF HOLY CROSS 
At Notre Dame there are Holy 
Cross priests, brothers and 
sisters dedicating their lives to 
you. Through administration, 
teaching and pastoral care, 
the gospel is made known. If 
you want more information 
contact: 
HOLY CROSS FATHERS 
Fr. Joseph Cuey, C.S.C. P.O. Box 541 Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 Telephone: (119) 183-6315 
financial support for evening and weekend shuttle service is a very real possibility. 
"We don't want to see evening and weekend shuttle service dis­continued," said St. Mary's Con­troller Jason Lindower. "But we have to eliminate these losses and make the system more self­supporting." 
English horn solo will be played by Melissa Bohl, a graduate music· Major at Notre Dame who also holds an administrative position in the Notre Dame Music Depart­ment. 
MANDATORY 
INFORMATION MEETING 
TONITE 7 pm 

in the Engineering Auditorium Ticket Packages Will Be Distributed_ PLEASE ATTEND 
pay and to come up with some ideas for making the system more financially stable. 
1n the meantime, Fuchs urged students to call her, Notre Dame Co-ex Commissioner Harold Jara, or the Ombudsman office if they have any complaints at all about shuttle service. 




United R~£s 
WOYatN.D. 
PARTICIPATION CHART 


I 
I 
I
ST WA ZA 
i 
.............. -·-·.·.·--.·.-.t 



AL BA BP CR 

~-~-----~-~
-----------,
-----~------------­
s e rio usIy, foIks~!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~ 
Remedial College 
*Observer 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii....__.iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii....iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii art buchwald 
Washington--The Timkens sent years ago when we discovered this ago, and the principal said it was 
their child Laura off to college with was a common problem for most the school's responsibility to make 




Editorial5
a check for $7,000 in tuition and college students. If you agree that good citizens out of the students, thought that was the end of it. But Laura should get this special help, and the parents' respov.sibility to 
soon after they received a letter please send a check for $250." teach the children how to read and write? Carlton, we're the ones who ._____________________________
..J
from the Dean of Studies. Timken was now very angry. 
"We are happy to announce that "How did she get in college if failed." we have instituted a remedial she can't write?" Timken sent in the check, and reading class for college freshman Mrs. Timken was much more was not surprised to find another 
and strongly advise that your sanguine about it. "Laura can letter waiting for him a week later. daughter Laura participate in it. If write. She justcan't write complete It read: "It has come to our she doesn't, it is our opinion that sentences." attention that no one in the Laura will not be able to keep up "She went to school for 12 years freshman class can add, multiply, with her studies. The cost will be and she can't write a sentence?" subtract or divide simple sums. $250." "Don't you remember? They We feel it is urgent that this 
It also seems that Student Activi­LaFortune) by the University dur­
deficiency be corrected early in a
Timken read the letter. "I were much more interested in ties does not trust the judgement of ing the summer of 76. Last thought Laura could read," he said Laura's thoughts than they were in student's college career. There­the College of Engineering. 
summer the University violated its 
to his wife. how she put them down. The teach­fore, we are setting up a special Approval by the College was given own due process in the Hunter
remedial arithmetic course. The
"So did I. I think the problem is er's main concern was with before and after assemblage of the 
she can read, but she has no panding her consciousness." ex­fee will be $250. Ifyou do not want calendar. The project was.never a fiasco. The University policy 
seems to be "If you're going to docomprehension of what she reads.'' "That's hogwash," Timken said. your daughter to take this course covert operation. Had it occurred anything controversial, do it when
"What did they teach her in ''They made an illiterate out of my we cannot guarantee she will to either the College or the staffgraduate. 
there are no students around to
public school and high school?" daughter." that such a project had to have the interfere."
"I have no idea, but if the college "I believe that's a bit strong. Once again Timken went through approval of Student Activities, the says she needs remedial reading Laura graduated with honors in the ceiling. "I thought Laura got Office would certainly have been The University really blew this we better see that she gets it or analytical consciousness-raising." A's in math in high school. approached. Unfortunately the one. They probably intended to $7,000 will go down the drain." "But she can't write." Mrs. Timken said, "That was duLac handbook was never offici­announce the layoffs over the 
A few days later they got another "I'm sure the college can help conceptional math. Her courses ally consulted. This grandiose October break. But the Oct. 12 latter from the dean. her learn to write. After all, it is an had to do with the advanced oversight is no reason to impose a hearing date screwed things up. If 
''The English Department has institution of higher learning." integration of numbers. She never ban, however. No attempt was they'd had enough foresight to see brought to our attention the fact "So now we have to pay $250 for could add or subtract them. Don't made to overlook the Office. this unionization move coming, that your daughter Laura cannot something they should have taught you recall when you complained But Mr. Reid has implied that they could have layed the grounds­write. They have recommended her in grammar school?" once about it and Laura's teacher such was the case by imposing keepers off during the summer. that she enroll in the remedial "Don't you remember when we told you, 'She can always learn to stringent, yea, foolish restrictions The students would've wondered writing class which we started two went to the PTA meeting years add and subtract when she gets to on the sale of the remaining what happened to the grounds­
college.'?" calendars. No printed advertising keepers, but it would have been too is to be allowed nor can they be 
late to do anything about it. sold at home sports events (what Hesburg became fameous in the 
would our alumni think?). A sixties for his seldom used "10 simple phone call by Mr. Reid 
minute" policy for dealing with would have clarified the integrity of 
student protest. The University's the project had he bothered to "Do it when the students are 
make it. Or Mr. Reid could have gone" policy for avoiding student told us that we should have asked 
protest is much less publicized. his approval. Instead he is shoving 
But it seems to be more effective, our hands into the fire to show us 
and it's used with rare exception. its power. Thus the calendar has been Peter Murphy forced into word of mouth sales as if it is in some way sinister or unsuitable for the public eye. Certainly this is not the style of the calendar. There are no lewd poses 
Bryant

or "what a body!" pictures. The girls were never treated as objects. We thought it might be nice to see 

opposition

some familiar faces on a calendar instead of a wintry scene and at the same time make the calendar something that both campuses Dear Editor: would look forward to seeing. Mr. Reid has assisted us in this venture On Oct. 27, 1977, Anita Bryant is to excite the campuses. But now scheduled to give a concert in thepeople are asking "why the ban?" instead of "where can I get a 
Notre Dame Athletic and Convoca­calendar?". 
tion Center. This event is not sponsored by the University, and the purpose of Ms. Bryant'sMarkMeyer appearance is entertainment, not aBusiness Manager oolitical rally. It would, however,Tech Review 

P.O.BOXQ~ 
be imposssible to deny that this woman has made herself the representative of a very definite political cause and naive to think
a simple business decision, the stance. If the administration is 
Layoff timing 
that her concert appearances do not 
likes of which happens every day indeed using restructuring claims further the objectives of this politi­(i.e. converting from manual labor as a way to avoid unionization, then 

Grounds­
cal movement.
to automation). let's make judgements accordingly. 
Anita Bryant has led a group of
problem

Some feel that in cases such as But let's get the facts before reactionary people who would like
these, manual labor should be judgement day arrives. 

keepers: econ. 
to deny civil and human rights tochosen since the workers have a gay men and lesbians in the United 
right to work. If choosing manual Jim Geselbracht 
labor over 1s Dear Editor: States. She and her supporters
automation anti­

decision 
The decision of the University to base their denunciation of homo­
human rights (as recent letters to lay off 21 groundskeepers does not sexuality on religious fundamen­the editor contend) then Notre 


Calendar 
Dame, along with the rest of the surprise me in the least. If the talism and they appeal to ignorance United States is grossly inhumane. not covert groundskeepers are allowed to and fear. There is no real evidence unionize, the University may be for their claim that gay men and
Dear EdJtor: The crane being used to construct 
forced to pay them a decent living lesbians are determined tothe engineering addition takes the Dear Editor: wage. This could set a dangerous "convert" young people to their
The recent announcement of place of an untold number of jobs 
Notre Dame's intent to fire 21 as does the use of the adding 1 am writing in regard to the precedent. The long term effect life styles. There is no legal employees has stirred up many machine, computer, and the bull­recent ban on the Girls of ND-SMC could be decent wages for all justification for their efforts to deny emotions in the ND community. A dozer. If the ND student was truly calendar. As business manager of University employees. civil rights to homosexuals. There 
great number of students have concerned about human rights he the Technical Review I feel obligat-What surprises me is the timing is nothing humane in their cam­jumped on the bandwagon to help would not even eat the food served ed to divulge the effects of the of this decision and its announce­paign of hatred, intolerance, and those poor unfortunate workers . to him since it was produced on moratorium placed on the calendar. ment. The University -has made bigotry. 
who represent another incident of, farms which have decreased man­First of all, the magazine is numerous decisions in the past Whenever self-righteousness 
absurdity and hypocrisy in the I power by using machines such as supported by the College of Engi-which were unchristian, unjust and and ignorance form the basis for 
administration. None have, how-l combines, planters and milking neering. Any deficit of the downright unconscionable. But the political activity, innocent people 
ever, given our administration a machines. magazine is thus defrayed by the implementation of these decisions are made to suffer. While I do not chance to explain their situation Economics tells us that when University. In an effort to balance is usually much smoother. Contra­question Anita Bryant's right to (besides using the testimony of an these 21 are laid off here, other 
the budget of the magazine (for the versial decisions have always been present a .:oncert in the ACC, and anonymous official). What ever unemployed workers will be hired 
first time in many years) several carried out while the students were while I do not believe the Univer­happened to our theory of innocent elsewhere. (Cromwell Manage­money-making ideas were origi-away. Terry Brennan was fired sity has done anything wrong in until proven guilty? ment needs workers to build these 
nated. The calendar was consi-just before Chrisbnas, back in the renting her the facilities, I would I must admit to an overabun-i machines.). We may be losing part dered to be one of the best ideas SO's. Fred Pechek was fired, by like to voice my strongest opposi­dance of peculiarities in the admin-1 of the ND family by firing these 
and expected to be a main source of telegram in 1975, while at Penn tion to what this woman and her istration's actions which should be workers but just think ·-we'll get 
revenue. By forbidding further State with the westling team, just followers stand for. 
t answered by a competent Univer-· new members of the family! editions of the calendar, Student before spring break. (After The sity official. However, trying to) This issue is not one of human Activities has stifled a source of Observer had stopped publication). Name withheld by request make the issue an example ofh~map rights. It is one in which the , .revenue for the University. Effec-An entire issue of The Observer · tively, the dog is biting its own tail.. was consficated (stolen from
injustice is absurd. The decision is/ employees are a victim of circum­

flfi! • 



ND Center for Pastoral Uturgy sponsors preaching 11110rkshop 
The Center for Pastoral Liturgy Other speakers and topicsof Notre Dame will sponsor a include Fr. John Gallen, S.J., three-day workshop on liturgical director of the Center for Pastoral 
preaching to be held today, tomor­Litrugy, the preacher and the
on row, and Wednesday at the faith of the Church; Rev.. John Brothers Center, Holy Cross Junior 
Grabner on the Protestant experi­College. 
ence with preaching, and Fr. Dr. John Barry Ryan, coordina­Eugene LaVerdiere, S.S.S., on tor, said the workshop is designed using the lectionary to preparefor the parish priest who wished to homilies. develop his preaching skills and get 
An orientation session will bemore satisfaction from his procla­held Sunday evening at Andremation of the Word of God. 
Hall, Holy Cross Brothers Center.
The core of the workshop will be Reservations for the workshop,conducted by Fr. Gerald Lardner, which will be limited to 30 partici­S.S., professor of homiletics, com­pants, may be made through themunication theory, and liturgical Center for Pastoral Liturgy, (219)celebration at St. Mary's Seminary, 
283-8801.
Baltimore. 
ADEN, South Yemen [AP[ -A hijacked West German jet with 87 hostages aboard landed safely at Aden airport yesterday after a deadline for death passed with the West German government refusing to meet the demands of four terrorists who had threatened to blow up the plane. 
There was no word on the fate of West German industrialist Hanns Martin Schleyer, whose kidnappers had threatened to kill him unless the Bonn government met the hijackers' demands by the deadline. 
South Yemen's civil aviation agency said authorities unsuccess­fully tried to prevent the Lufthansa Boeing 737 from landing in the 
Frosh dass sholltiS academic qualifications 
This year's freshman class of 1,611 was culled from the largest applicant's pool in the University history--and it shows academically. 
Twenty-seven percent of the Class of 1981 ranked one through five in scholastic standing in their high school graduating classes, and the class includes 153 validictorians and 94 salutatorians, about double the number coming to Notre Dame 10 years ago. 
A total of 6,458 persons applied for admission for this year's fresh­man class, and the 1,219 men and 392 women selected came from 47 states and the District of Columbia. 
About one-fourth are sons or 
daughters of Notre Dame alumni. 
SMC to elect 
Frosh Council 
by Molly WouHe 
St. Mary's freshmen will elect 
representatives for the Freshman 
Oass Council today between ,10 
and 6 p.m. in the LeMans lobby. 
Thirty-two freshmen are running 
for the 20 positions on the Council. 
One representative will be elected 
for every 25 students. 
"They're going to more or Jess 
represent the class, run activities, 
attd elect a p.~rson to sit on the 
Board of Governance," stated 
Election Commisioner Maria 
Mignanelli. ''And some will attend 
the Notre Dame Freshman Oass 
Council meetings." 
Candidates began campaigning 
last Monday. "Meet the Candi­
dates" night was held on Thursday 
in the coffee shop, but was poorly 
attended. 

This is the first year St. Mary's 
has instituted class councils in 
student government. In previous 
years, four officers were elected by 
each class. The reason for the 
change is "To provide better 
representation' according to Mig­
nanelli. 




EED A CHANGE OF PACE? 
------: consider the 
NOTRE DAME APARTMENTS 
CLOSE TO CAMPUS! APARTMENTS STILL AVAILABLE 
2 bedrooms -completely furnished complete kitchen and dining room $280 -300/ month up to 4 students 
call Candy at ·233.-6363 or 234-6647 
'-.·~ 


K.~;;~~~. 
_,t. 
I I 

~onday, Ckiober17, 1977 
the observer 
5 



Hijacked jet, hostages lai1d safely 
capital of Aden. A spokesman said said. 
the government agreed to refuel The Lufthansa jet had left Dubai the craft as long as the hijackers 40 minutes before the 7 a.m. (EST)agreed to leave "as soon as deadline set by the four hijackerspossible." for release of eleven anarchists 
In recent years, this country at imprisoned in West German jails.
the tip ofthe Arabian peninsula has West Germany took no action to granted refuge to hijackers and free them as the deadline passed. other terrorists. South Yemen was the fifth stop
The 82 passengers, including an for the hijacked plane which was American woman with a heart ordered to Rome, Nicosia, Bahrain condition, and five crewmen were and Dubai after the hijackersreported safe when the plane commandered the Majprc~-to­made a forced landing on a dirt Frankfurt flight over France on strip at the airport, the spokesman Thursday. 
notre dame student union & sunshine promotions 
presents 


introducing 

The Norton Buffalo Stampede FRIDAY, OCTOBER 21 8:00PM Notre Dame ACC 
Tickets: $8.00, $7.00 
All Seats Reserved 
on sale now at the ACC box office & the student union box office 
Notre Dame Student Union & Su'l!ihine Present 

SATURDAY NOVEM,ER 5 7:30pm 
NOTRE DAME A.C.C. 
All Seats Reserved; $8.50 & $7.50 
On sale now at: ACC-bol( .office, S~ tlda!t offiCII, Allber1son's-s:­Bend & Conmnl. ~II. Rrst Bank-Main Branch only, St. Joe Bank & 1111 branches, Boogie Aealrds, Just For The Alealrcl, 11le Altaml JDint-Niles, The Elkhllrt Truth and SuSPeflded ~ in Ellchart River City Records, S. Bend 
.: 
\: ·'
I 
·,_..;~ 

6 the observer Monday, October 17, 1977 
After 13 years 



ND Debate Council stages return 
by Tony Pace Staff Reporter 

After a 13-year absence from national debating prominence, the Notre Dame Debate Council staged an impressive return at the Ken­tucky Invitational Debate. 
Notre Dame's entry was not among the more prestigious of the 92 teams involved, but the tandem of senior Jim Maniace and fresh­man Ken Kristl performed well and reached the octafinals, a playoff of the top eight teams. 
For their outstanding perform­ance the Council received an d h · fi f
awar . t etr trst or any comp­
etition in over ten years, and recognition which should bring invitations to other debating events. 
The 92 teams at the Kentucky debate represented schools such as UCLA, USC, Texas, Northwestern, Harvard and Dartmouth. Although Notre Dame had only one two-man team entered, many of the other schools had several such teams representing them. 
During the early stages of the meet, Maniace and Krist) held their own against all competition including several teams from the University of Kansas. The Kansas debating program is highly re­garded as they have 20 students on 
debating scholarships. It was the Notre Dame performance against the Kansas teams which attracted much attention. Although Notre Dame was elim­inated by Harvard in the octafinals, 

:~{:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~ 
.·. PH0 TOGRAp H E R s :;:; 
·:·: :::: 
J Do you shoot 1 II :::: 35 mm slides?Kod\ k's\ ..~:::;.=~=.~.===~=
.. 

:;:: At Slidecraft we specialize in processing a 
. New Ekltachhrome (E-6) film. 1 :·:·
::!.i.=.: 


Norma 24 our serv1ce. :::: ;::: Come in and sign up for a Student Discount Card. 
•

Sliclecraft l.aboratorJeS Inc. 
·· 

.:54;uTH BEND. IN 46601
2 1
:=ii;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~;: 
I 
I 
I ­
I 
I I 
Maniace, who is the president of the Debate Council, was very pleased with his team's showing. 
"If we were to do nothing else this season, this performance would still make it all worthwhile. But we want to continue to perform well and receive awards so that we become more recognized in de­bating circles," he said. 
Because of the long Notre Dame absence from national debates, the 
Council  must  continually  debate  
well  to  become  more  easily  ac·  
cepted.  "We have to work hard  

just to get credibility. Last year we were invited to a debate at Xavier U · · · c· · t' b
mverstty m mcmna I ecause
another school dropped out. We were a last minute fill-in. But we did well so we were invited to return this year. That's good for 
~~~00~~~~!1 pfa~':~~;h ~~Z in~~!~ 
to return,'' Maniace explained. 
Improving a debating program is no easy task. By receiving ar­guments and constantly staging internal debates, the members of the Council have refined thier debating skills. New coach Hill Wians, a philosophy graduate stu­dent, has helped the Council to improve. 
"We are 16 people who form eight different debate teams," Maniace noted. "Of those 16, 12 are novices and only four are at the varsity level. Coach Wians has done an awful lot of work with us 

SMC center to al·d students 
• 

k• d • • 
In· ma lng career 9CISIOI1S 
The Career Development Center (CDC) of the Student Affairs Department at St. Mary's is spon­
sporing a complete program 
~::;~~~~ci~~:!!a~~::~nts in all 
~!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~t=.-;n~~!!!l 
liCIT. oiTP:i.Slj~ BMIT ~ J OCIT ·liT· SIT 1MB I, II, III•ECfMI•fLEI•IQE 
NAT'L DENTAL BOARDS • NURSING BOARDS Flexible Provrams A Hours 
_.__,. IS a djn"-encelll 
~ ._.,..,.. JJ•rT 
for Information Please Call: -fl. .collect 
. West Lafayette 
l~.

EDUCATIONAL CENTER 483-7028 SI'E"giL~:~TE~NI 
Serving BloQIIlinlfoll, lndian&PQUs, South Bend For IDcatJons in other cltiei Outside N.Y. State Only CAll IOU FlU: 800.223-1782 center~ In MaJor us Cltlet Toronto, Puerto Rico end lupno, SWitzerlllld 
.~m~ ~XI :.?.tRA':l'f. 
and we have improved greatly. He's the first real coach we have had," he added. 
This work is beginning to reap dividends. The Maniace-Kristl tandem drew attention at Kentucky and they have been invited to participate in the "UCLA-USC-Cal St. at Fullerton swing meet." A solid showing there would add tremendous prestige to the Coun­
cil. Maniace said, "This is the first time in a long time that we have been noticed by some of the top debating schools." 
A series of workshops will cover basic elements of decision-making as well as technical aspects of 
career search. The workshops are 
ffaC,::et:tu~~~!·. ~::~:~ :~~ ~;~; visiting the CDC for an intake 
;.:~~~:~~ ,., the wo,kshop• ~ "R~~~~:·Clfn~~.. ~n ~~e 5st~d~~!
Affairs Conference Room. "A--sTseurtes,·vdeayT,rafrt'n°t!llng~' tt'0 5hep.Smtu.,
n t 
, ­
dent Affairs Conference Room. --Wednesday, from 3 to 5 p.m., "Job Search," in the Stapleton
Conference Room.  
-Thursday, from 3 "Information," in the Development Center .  to  5 p.m., Career  

In addition, a number of job interviews will be held at the CDC this week: --Tomorrow, for all majors, with MONY (Mutual of New York). --Wednesday, for business,


~::.~?'~~~:: 
majors, with St. Regis Paper Co. 


.. ,, •.••...• , .••••..•• ••••••••ltt ................ , ............. ~ .• ..~ •.•• , •••• -········•••1••'···•.•,•••.•.•..•.•..•.••.•.•········-•.•.•.•.•.·•.•.•.•.•.•..•.•.•.•.·.···-·.···.· 
United Way Drive Monday, october 17,1977 the observer 
Success due to intense campaig-n 
•'CollltiJIIU£~d from page 1] "The response in Alumni was pation as "outstanding." munity planning, budgeting, com-was wortnwnue. "lnts ts the omy to collect money. They disappointing. All of the students "There were basically two types munications, and labor programs activity, short of athletic event, that assigned people to collect were contacted, but there was a of people who didn't give," he on a year round basis. It .repre­the entire student body acts on. _ ..~...-J ,at the front door a few tremendous lack of spirit of giving said. "There were those who sents 34 different service agencies, The student response was tremen­on the part of those who were asked claimed they didn't have the money nearly 90 percent of the voluntary dous. It is obvious we can be ftrst 
'If there was any reason for the to contribute." and those who saw problems with health and welfare programs in the in more than athletics," he said. percentage of participants, it Holy Cross Hall, on the other the drive itself. Some disagreed area. the apathetic attitude of the hand, was the second most active with the charities represented by Russell said that the project 
:tn<1Pnt<:," he continued. "I would Dillon sponsors
hall with 98.3 percent of the United Way, and some didn't like benefited the students. "Many to empahsize, however, that residents contributing a dollar or the way our campaign was run. times students at Notre Dame collected over $185 this year, more to the United Way. Joe They felt we were subjecting them become isolated from what is going Waldman talk 
;uu•van::u to only $26last year. We Tatman, communiy service com-to peer pressure.'' on in the outside world and quadrupled lat year's 
missioner for Holy Cross, said, The United Way is a local, surrounding community. For a The Dillon Hall Acadep~ic Com­and that's a real improve-" Almost everyone we contacted volunteer-run organization serving least one week the student body mission is sponsoring a talk and 
" 
gave. The only problem was with the people of St. Joseph County. had a chance to think about its question-answer session with Dean finding them at home." Labor, management, and commu-surrounding community and make Bernard Waldman ofthe College of Quentin Moore organized the nity leaders organized it in 1914 to a charitable contribution to it," he Science, this Tuesday at 8 p.m. in 
campus. ~ark_ Reiling, _coor~i-drive in Fisher Hall. He described eliminate multiple funding drives. commented. the Dillon Hall Cha el Everyon of the dnve m Alumm, sa1d, the resulting 97.9 percent partici-United Way now covers com-McTaggart agreed that the drive is invited to attend. p · e 
NOTICE Want~? Need So. Cal. vs NO football ~,



------------------------------------------·~ 
CONTACT LENS WEARERS -Save on 
brand name hard and soft lens supplies. 

~f~k~~~2_i·c~~~{:~:~~~(J~• 
•s~l fll()A()Si
Send for free iilustated catalog. Contact · 
Lens Supplies, Box 7453, Phoenix, Arizo­Wanted: 4 Tickets tO{l!lther to any home ~ ~ 
na, 85011. game. Call289-9530 (Uebbie) after 6 pm. 
To the Individual who stole the day pack Addressers wanted immediately! Work Wan~ed: 8 GA Nai(Y tickets, together If So. Cal. vs NO football tickets, Oct. 22 • Happy Birthday Gary Holi~an · 
and calculator out of the K of C Tues. at home -no exP.erience necessary •• possible. Will pay$. Call 2118-0952 after Spo_rts Tour 3050 W. 7th Street, L.A. 18 today and never oeen k1ssed. I 
night, please consider this: The pack had excellent pay. Wnte American Sertvice 6 pm. Calif., 90005. 213·384·1951. Will pay 
much more worth than simply amonetary 8350 Park cane, Suite 269 Dallas Tx: . . Ch $$. Also, could use four tix for any home ATTENTION-Section 3-B Farley: Leran I 
valuaJ and I can't afford lo replace the 75231. ' Br~ther and s1ster need nde to. am-game. to respect your RA or else! (If you can't 
pa1gn, II. area after USC game Will share do that at least 'keep her !rig stocked.)
calcu1ator. Please return what lsn't 
expenses. Call 4-5181 Jr 1811. Need ride from North-centarl New Jersey 1 Coast client will pay premium. 272-7360
your's. K Keess, 3414. USC student or Ga tix wanted. West to NO after break -Oct. 30. Will share JEAN THE BEAN KYLE: 
Wanted: Several you.1g men to help us expenses. Please call 8085. As Jean and John grow fonder and I
PROFFESSIONAL TYPING-Correcting after 6 pm.
Selectric typewriter, exJ)erienced in dis­with a promotion. Cas'i Qay -no door to fonder the vital questions we must 
sertations, reasonable. 232-5715. Wanted: 4 GA tickets for Southern Cal. 
ds~or selling. Contact Miss Edie at the URGENT: Need ride for 2to Boston araea JJOnder: Will pay good bucks. CXall 1423 ask for 
Kmghts, 272-0312, or 2 ~-8471. anytime aFTER USC game. Will share -Will Dill the pickle defile Kyle? I 
Experienced mlnistrals, serenading a Mike. exrense;! Please, can Mary or Sue --Or will Rick the stick do the trick? 
Wanted: Ride to CentJrl NJ or close 80h. -Do the studies reach a peak all seven 1speciality. Call Ringo and Jester, Bl43. 
before or after USC. Call Mark, 8785. nights of thf week?
Need 4USC GA tix. Will pay$, call Ron, Accurate, fast tyJ)ing. Mrs. Donoho, J423. I
Wanted: 2 GA USC tickets. Call ana ......WHPT ABOUT CHARLIE???? 
Need 2 GA USC or Na IY tickets. Call 3695....Jim. haPP.Y 20th E:irthday, Jean! Love,
232-Q746. Hours, 8 am to 6 pm. 
Higgjes, D.O. and Joyce
Wanted: Desperately need 6 GA tix to Randy, 8622. I 
Typing, call Carolyn. 232-9061. any home game. Call Chris at 1158. Wanyted: 2 or 4 GA Georgia Tech tix. PS: 1let any pickles rately?Need ride to Omaha f01 Fall Break. Call Please! Call Ann 6859. 
I 
Colin, 8689.

NEED QUALITY TYPING? Executary, Wanted: One student USC ticket. Call Need USC tickets will pay excellent price. This ones just for you Jiiiy.
Inc., Proffessional Typing Services, IBM Chuck at 1436. 
Need someone to drive a car to New Call Dan, 1598.
Correcting Seiecxtncs. 85 cents per 1 
London, Ct. anvtlme during October. The Lewis Lushes say "Hello" to Chewey
page, mimmum. Call 232-o898. "Wiien I WILL BE FOREVER GRATEFUL TO 
you want the best.'' YOU If you sell me apair of GA tickets for Phone: 291-1561. Need 2 GA Air Force tix. Call Claire, Calaway. I the USC game. My parents want to come 289-6533. 
Learn to play pocket billiards in the and cheer for Old Notre Dame. Will pay Wanted: USC GA tickets for parents -R2-D1, I 
please call 4-4n4. We need tlx to Navy game. Please calli Casey Cason says "Droids in White
poolroom of LaFortune Student Center $$$$$. Call Mary, 1313. 
289-6255. Satin" ls no. 1 in the charts.
under the Huddle. Just see the student 
NEED ONE SOUTHERN CAL TICKET.. ANN MALERS • 5439. Need 2tickets Clemson game. Call Pete Hey Keiffer! 
Wanted: 4 USC tickets. Will pay good x401 ilays. I
manager on duty for help. Need 2Southern Cal Tix. Beth, 272-2340. I 
Mellon, 287-9161 Louisiana helps International Relations.
Need ride back to NO after break...can ____,....;________
bucks. Call Jim at 1419. 
leave from Philadelphia-NYC area. Call Top.pay for 2 usc_ tickets. Call Jacob Happy 21st birthday to Ellen Mclaughlin I Wanted: 4 GA or student tickets to USC. 
Marti, m-2483 or 1715. 8720 Octooar 15th. LOST AND FOUND Call Steph at 4-5424. MB 
Part time janitorial work available. Need 4GA or student USC tickets. CALL 
Morning hours re~uired.
LOST: $100 Reward! for anyone who. Need 2 USC GA's. Will pay $$$. Call Call Sweeney John 1757. G.U. I 
or Toney at Corby's 233-0438 after 2 pm. It's been ten months today. Hope it's 1
finds a gold charm bracelet , one round Greg, 6863. 
charm w1th inscription -Great sentimen­Need ride to Cincinnati area after US many more. I love you. 
tal value. Cali Monica, 272-5720. You are never going to believe this! I I need USC tix. Call Tom Basile, game. Will glalt!Y Jharo expenses. Call HS or JS (whichever you want) 
need FlfteenGeorgia Tech tickets, GA 233-8288. Therese Anne, 7Ui. ------1 FOUND: On sidewalk, 1976 Hol't' Cross Please call Geoff at 1083. 
HELEN OF TROY CLUES: class preparatory ring. Call Denise, 
Need one GA ticket for Georgia Tech. 2Need rides from NYC after Oct. Break. The ACC has two and asix pack of Miller 1
Call Mary: 1263. Call 2722. has 12.
4-5402. Wanted: 4 USC tickets. Will pay good money. 256-1487. 
If the sun shines on the Dome at noon, I 
Will tarde Stud. SC tic and $money for 2 Honey, headed for Dixie over break? where does It shine at 27 after?
LOST: or stolen, Tl-50 calculator on Oct. -----­Need 2 'USCtickets, GA. Call Bill at Georgia Tech GA's. Call 233-7604. Need nde to Memphis area. Call Adelia Freshman can't have Millers but could go I12 In Psychology Auditorium, Haggar 
8270. 7812. Will share expenses. hero for a date.
Hall. Please return. No questions asT<ed. 
Looking for 2 GA tickets to USC. Call
Cali Mike, 1852. 
Desperately need 2 GA Joe, evenings. 234-0980. Needed: 4 USC GA tickets. Call Jim 1
Georgia Tech Julie, LOST: in music practice room on piano: a tickets. Help! Call Mike 1687. 8376. I'm madly in love with you, for real. 
Need ride to Massachusetts wi II share
Timex watch without band -Sentimental Bob 
1

usual. Call Tom 1485. Wanted: i GA ticket for USC. Call 3060.
Value. No questions asked, call 8570. Wanted: 5 USC tickets. Call Paul at 
1424. ------Lisa Lyons, I
Parents coming from Seattle for first big A female accountant with any style canLOST: football ticket with ID. This poor
frosh is in fits. Please -4, 4728. Need 2 GA tix for USC. Call Jim 8708. visit to ND Need 2 GA tix to Georgia PERSONALS probably be found if.vou look for awhile. I 
Tech. Martha H, 4-4728. BUT IF YOU SEACH ANY FILE AND 
Mark travel many a mile you'll never find
FOUND: Miniature poodle near campus. Need six Southern Cal Tix. 
Call 234-5120 after 10 am. 287-7051. Need ride back to NO from Miami U, Girls, once in a lifetime chance! Stanford another with a prettier smile. 1Cincinnatti area after braek. John, 8981. Hall section 2-A North-South is now -Rhymin Simon 
Need six GA Clemson Tix. Call Leo, taking aP.piications for an evening of
FOUND: On walking cane at Grace Hall sheer Dates are
Need 1-3 GA USC tickets. Big money. ectasy. now tieing
party Oct. 1 on 8th floor. Cai11747. 287-7051. Michael, I 
Call Kevin 8713. soughtfor the Nov. 5 CSN concert. Seats Voulez-vous couchez avec moi, ce soir? I 
Wanted: Desperately need four student are available on the main floor in rows Heather
LOST: Brown leather wallet on Saturday1 Wanted: 3 USC tickets. Call Rod at 1461. 2-7: Center Stage'! If interested call:
the Bth . If found, please call John at or GA Georgia Tech tickets. Call Rooms 229, 230, 231, 232, 233, 234 236 THE SNAKE'S Idol, Joe Anderson, is 13074. Reward. Mary4-4764. 
Wanted: Ride to NYC area for October 237, 240 241 243 and don't forget to tell coming to town this weekend! Stay tuned LOST: SMC ID and other valail Wanted: 2Student USC tickets. Will pay break. Willi share driving and expenses. a fnend.!!!!!.!1 1 this week for further details. I Kublaks. Friday Oct. 7. If $$. Call Suzy or Diane, 5148. Call Rob at 1436. 
Will tared two excellent SAteve Miller Joe, the corrupting force of Holy Cross is
pi Dease call JoAnne, 4-5778. 
Wanted: Ride to NYC area for October tickets fOr two good CSN tickets or one returning to slither with the snake this 1 USC game. Will to share expenses and braek. Will share driving and expenses. USC tickets. Calllan, 3591. weekend. The chewino, drinking, gator­driving. Please call Jill 6446. Call Jim at 1436. ing, etc. will be endleSl We hear you! 1Need ride to Southern tier of NY after Anyone who lives in Park Jefferson Apts.
FOR SALE 
On OCt. 17th Vote for Lisa Brinkman, for Need ride to znyc or Long Island after So. please call Steve at 1478. Heycutie! I SMC Freshmen Council. Cal. also neeil ride baCk to NO before What would Joe think If he knew you 1974 Fiat Spider Convertible -26, 000 Navy game. Will share driving and CUTE AND GOOD CONVERSATION· were called that? Would he consider it I 
miles. Mint condiltion $2850. Call HelP. Pam find Georgia Tech tickets for expanses. Rob, 8464. aiiSTdesP.erately needs ride to and from corkY or klnky?Hey Snake 
259-n04. fam1iy. 4032. Philadelphia area Oct. breaak, share Hofy Cross will never be the same once 
Need ride to Bloomington to see Dead, expenses tool! Pat, 5246. youand Joe are reunited. How many 1I AUDIO OUTLET: stereo equipment, Desperately need ride to Ft. Lauderdale Sun, Oct 31. JB, 8940. pieces of furniture will bite the dust this 
Kevin Hart-
I TV's, CB's, wholesale. Call n81. for Oct. break. 44101. weekend? I
Need ride to Cincinnati or vicinity Oct. 20 Have ,YOU had a huddleburger attack I FOR SALE: 1Student season ticket. Call Need 2 general admission tickets for lately,? I ve had three. Rememller those Snake-. I
or 21 -Joan, 1280. 8364. ~eorgia Tech. Call 4-4146. prom1ses. Save your tackles for the football field. Need ride from central New York back to Those walls were just painted! Beware, I Need ride to St. Louis for October break. Will Joe!
Notre Dame after October braek. Brian
1~~_u~~ticke!:___B_!~offer:....~~:..__ share whatever. Call Mark, 1852. It's been real and it's been fun but it
Call4-4101. 
I 
FLANNER RECORDS. An on-campus hasn't been real fun!!! Happy 20th Pretty rowdy characters, huh....... I 
student run record shop. We stock Wanted: 2-4 USC GA tickets. Call Need 2 USC GA Tix. Will pay $$$. birthday. Love and kisses, Your Former • I all new releases and can order any album 288-QOBB. 4-4438. ni~t calers, ·Claire, Sally, Mary Beta; Jeanne is a women now. She doesn't I 
Pa and Moira. wear arm boots. She wears make-upstill being produced. Also available, 
Call Need 4 G1 USC tickets and 2 student PS: Grief!! Abuse!!!
blank tapesil componnentsJ accessories, Deperate for one Navy GA ticket. ive our love to Timhthe "Heel" for instead. ~rlef! Happy I
tickets. 1\athy, 272-3634. what he's done we love im still. 21st. Love,
pre-recorda 8 tracts anu cassettes -Bill, 8858.
I PSS: Ron and Jamey don't be shy just Deighn, Sue, Barb, Julie and Polly
Prlces...$6.9811st LP's o~!Y $4.50...$7.98 
I 
list LP's only $5.29.....$7.98 list tapes, Wanted: 5 GA Navy tickets. Cali Phil Wanted: 4USC tics. Will pay big bucks. answer the phone and give us a try.1 
only $5.45. Aanner records, 322 Flanner. 8762. Call 8341. Kiddo, I 
Phone 2741. Katie, Hope youi 21st is the best. I
H~urs ...4-5, 6:30-8:110, 

NeetJ desperately aride to Binhamton NY Happy 19th from a new rebel friend.
M·Th. Sunday, 2-3.30. NEW ORLEANS • Looking for riders Love. laor
I Sun., after USC heading south to N.O. via after USC game. Will share expenses. Hope you have a great B-Day. 2 females students sublet I
Wanted: to
1
6 X 9 beige carpeting ...cotton ....good Louisville, Nashville, Birmingham. Call Call Rick, 3583. Jay Campus View Apt. Call Kathy, 6781.
condition; car tap luggage carrier and 1378-Jay 
TYPISTS WANTED: Fulltime, to WPeset 
Sunday was Laureen O'Connor's birth­
Choir.

I 
gree pull-upHaugahyoe Call display advertising, Monday and Wed­Desperate! Ride needed to New England I
232-3408 after 5:30. Need ride to Champaign Ill for braek. day. You've probably met her already,
nesday thru Saturllay afternoons and~r or E. New York State for Break. Will
Call Mark, 8981. but if you haven't call 4-4152 and wish
evenings. Hourly pay. Experience share expenses driving, and other 1
her a happy birthday and introduce
I ~.K.C. Doberman pups, champion blood not Apply expenses. 8327.
helpfur but necessa[Y. in II
lines -Reds. $75. Ph. 289-7562. Wanted: An accurate eficient secretary to yourself. Happy Birthday Little One. 
person at : The Penny Saver 2102 S.
work with students. Must be able to type Love, Sue, Cin, Mar ' 
Michigan St., Soputh !fend, 288-1411.
.I 40 WPM and have good telephone voice.
I Margo Lebrun,
Call Joe or Rick at0413 from 2-4 MWF. Ride needed for Oct. Break to North I'm sorry I haven't heard from you.
Need 2 student tix fo USC ·for girlfriend Jersey-NYC area. Call Bruce 3587. HoJJe you haven't forgotten me. Miss you!! 
I 
I WANTED and friend. Parent's love In Jeopardy. Desperately Need 4 tickets for Southern Cal. game. need 2 GA Navy Ucliets. Steve 8337. REWARD: priceless Homecoming Pack­age for the finder of HELEN OF TROY.
Nedd 2 GA Georgia Tech tickets. Cllf Call Paul1-219-745-2892 colect or Kim, 1needaridefortwotoDCareaforbreak. ~athy, 4-4348. 284-5369. Leave Sun, 23rd. Tom 8329. 
-~-----------------------------------­


-....----..........~-~~---~­

-~----------------~---------------­
~onday, Ckiober17, 1977
-
8 the observer 


Army out-maneuvered by Irish, 24-0 

by Paul SteveiUIOII 
Sports Editor 

East Rutherford, NJ • The site 
was the Meadowlands, the teams 
were Notre Dame and Army, and 
the result was a 24-0 victory for the 
Irish before the largest crowd ever 
to witness a collegiate game at 
Giants Stadium. 

Although slow at the start, 
leading only 7-0 at halftime, Notre 
Dame compiled 17 points after 
intermission to down the underdog 
Cadets. 

The Irish, running out of an I 
backfield in addition to their usual 
wing-T, used a barrage of running 
plays by Jerome Heavens, who was 
operating in the halfback slot for 
Saturday's clash. 

For Army, it was a usual finish, 
losing their thirty-first game 
against only eight wins and four 
ties versus the powerful Irish. 

Notre Dame received the open­
ing kickoff and drove the ball from 
their own 20 yard line to the Army· 
21. Then, faced with second and seven, Irish quarterback Joe Mon­tana handed off to Heavens who fumbled the ball upon contact with defensive back Bruce Elliott. Cadet Kirk Thomas recovered the ball for Army to halt the Irish threat and terminate Notre Dame's momentum. 
The Cadets were unable to take advantage of the Irish turnover as the remainder of the quarter was scoreless. 
Notre Dame tallied their first points in the second period on a three yard burst off right tackle by Heavens The scoring drive started at the Army 47 yard line. Using four runs by Heavens, including one of 21 yards, and one rush by Dave Mitchell, the Irish offense reached paydirt. The touchdown came with 12:20 remaining in the first half. 
Later in the second period, Army advanced the ball to the Notre Dame 15 yard line. With a fourth and six situation, the Cadet elect­ed to go for the first down. Army signal caller Leamon Hall faded back to pass, but due to pressure by Ross Browner, Hall's pass which was intended for Clennie 
Dave O'Keefe Defense Never Rests 
Instant Replay 

Notre Dame's defense played a large part in winning the preseason 
number one spot in the polls, and although the Irish haven't lived up to 
August's expectations, the defense maintains a firm grip on its claim to 
being one of the best in college football. 
First, the facts. No opponent has scored against the Irish on the ground this year. That piece of information in and of itself conveys the key to the defense: the immovable line. While it is true that linebackers lead the team in tackles this season, it is the front four that has been setting up runners like clay pigeons or bruising them as they stagger towards the linebackers for the final kill. Mike Calhoun and Ken Dike have been solid all season long, while Scott Zettek looks more and more comfortable standing in the shoes of Willie Fry. · 
What of Ross Browner? If he's supposed to be a Heismann candidate, shouldn't we hear his name more often? Well, not really. As a matter of fact, Browner is having another great season at end, quite possibly his best. He's been fighting double-teams and triple-teams all year, and, more importantly, he's been winning. He's also getting to the quarterback in his familiar excuse-me-forearm-in-the-face style, only now, bright quarterbacks like Mark Herrmann and Leamon Hall are getting rid of the ball much more quickly. 
As for the linebackers, Leroy Leopold and Mike Whittington played superbly for the injured Doub Becker and Steve Heimkreiter, respectively. Each had an interception, giving Leopold at least one interception in every game he's played for the Irish, including his first, a touchdown return against Northwestern last year. 
Bob Golic led the team (again) in tackles with 14. Golic's performance this year has been practically flawless, as good as any on the entire team, and his presence in the middle makes any sizeable gains up the middle or off tackle very difficult. 
The secondary has improved in the past two weeks. They had bad games in Purdue and Mississippi, but they looked more together against Michigan State, and turned in their best performance against the Black Knights of the Hudson. Army's 202 yards in passing are insignificant in light of the fact that Hall-to-anyone-who-was-open was pretty much the name of Army's offense Saturday. But this time, no one was open when it counted. 
Army is by no means a weak offensive team. Clennie Brundidge is a fine wide receiver, but he could do little against the secondary. Tailback Jim Merrikan tied the record for most passes caught against Notre Dame (11), but was held to eight yards on the ground, one-fourth of the team total. Army did not even try a field goal. And so it goes. 
This week, USC. If the Irish are going to beat the Trojans, the defense is going to have to maintain the same stubborn pride that has won them a national reputation, a few tidy victories, and maybe, just maybe, a 
National Championship. We'll have a l-etter idea-about the possibilitie$ of..•. '.'lf.we pl~y w-~ll. w.e.'ll win. H.we that next week. · · ----_ don't, we won't. It's that simple." 
Brundidge was intercepted by Luther Bradley. 

Notre Dame regained possession of the football, but was unable to advance. The.n, Joe Restic's punt, which covered 46 yards, was fum­bled by Jim Merriken back to the Army one yard line. The Irish scrambled for the ball, but Jon Dwyer recovered for the Cadets. The time ran out in the half as Notre Dame took their mere 7-0 lead to the locker room. 
In the first half, the Irish had 12 first downs compared to nine for Army. The Notre Dame offense had compiled 160 yards rushing, 121 of those by Heavens. Montana had connected on only three of ten aerial attempts. 
Opening the second half, Head Coach Homer Smith opted to kickoff hoping to pin the Irish deep 
in their own territory and have the wind in Army's favor in the fourth quarter. 
But, Notre Dame had no desire to remain near their own endzone as they advanced the ball to the Army 49 and then blockaded Army back inside their own five yard line. 
On the Irish's next possession, the Notre Dame offense marched to the Army 12, whereupon Irish mentor Dan Devine called for Dave Reeve. The Bloomington, Indiana native responded with a 29 yard field goal, giving him 207 career points and giving the Irish a 10-0 advantage with 6:471eft in the third act. 
At the 3:51 mark of the third quarter, the Irish began another scoring drive. Following a holding penalty against the Irish, Notre Dame began the drive at their own 25 yard line. 
This time Tri-Captain Terry Eurick shot up the middle for the six points. The highlights of the drive were a 20 yard pass from Montana to tight end Ken MacAfee and a 15 yard gallop by Heavens. Reeve's conversion brought the score to 17-0. 
The Irish scored their final points midway through the final period, a drive which covered 60 yards in 16 plays. The tally came on Eurick's 
straight ahead run from the three. The point after by Reeve capped the scoring for the Irish with Notre Dame maintaining a 24-0 edge. 
In the contest, Heavens compiled 202 yards in 34 carries, a new Notre Dame record for the single game rushing total. Heavens surpassed the mark of 186 yards established by Emil Sitko against Michigan State in 1948. The junior speedster now has racked up 528 yards thus far during the 1977 campaign. 
*Observer 

Sports 
Dodgers triumph 
LoS ANGELES [AP] -"Too many mistakes.'' 
That was the way losing pitcher Don Gullett described the shelling he took Sunday as the Los Angeles Dodgers battered the New York Yankees 10-4 and sent the World Series back to New York with the Yankees holding a 3-2 lead. 
"I felt great physically," said Gullett, who pitched 8 113 innings in the Series opener but was clobbered for seven runs and eight hits -including Steve Yeager's three-run homer -in just 4 1/3 innings Sunday. 
"I just pitched a terrible game. It was my control -nothing more and nothing less. 
"Yeager hit a hanging forkball. Every pitch they hit today was a mistake pitch. I just made too many mistakes. I have no excuses because I probably felt better physically than in the opening game. I just made too many mistakes with my fastball and my forkball." 
The Yankees had hoped to end the 
World Series here and were a subdued bunch over having their season . extended until Tuesday night. 
"There'll be a sixth game, that's about it," said Manager Billy Martin. "But I've got to be happy winning two out of three here. Maybe it's right that we should win it in our home park for our fans. But I would've taken a win today." 
.Montan_a completed eight of 17 Pressure by the defensive line passes for 109 yards, while suffer­and an excellent performance by ing one interception. the defensive secondary aided the 
Notre Dame had 27 first downs in Irish throughout the clash. Inter­the battle, while Army registered -ceptions by Mike Whittington, 
15. In total offense, the Irish had Leroy Leopold and Luther Bradley 464 yards, 342 rushing. The Cadets helped stop key Cadet drives. managed to accumulate 227 yards Saturday's results brings Notre total offense, only 67 via the Dame's record to 4-1, while the 
i .,..... . • I \ t' ' . '1'::.. 
'\~·-; ~-~~t· • ~ ..... ..... rt;;,~· .. • 
~ ' ~ 
..,,

_1"4-~-.. ' -~() > ~~ 


• . . _j . 
•
• 
--k 
•'/:lillllllll f....,.~~,..
• 

Steve Orsini leads the way for Jerome Heavens. The Irish speedster 
gained 202 yards in 34 carries. [Photo by Bill Reifsteck 
running attack. . Cadet's ledger falls to 3-3. The 
Defensively, Bob Golic played Irish now prepare to host the 
another outstanding game. The University of Southern California 
Notre Dame junior accounted for 14 this Saturday in Notre Dame 
tackles in the war. Stadium.
Paul Stever1son ::::=:=::::::::::;:;:;:;:;::::::::::::::::':-:·:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-­
The Irish Eye 
-::::;:;:;:;:;:::::::::;:;:;:;.;::::::-:-:::-:-:-:-:-:-:-:·:-:::·:::-:::-:-:-:-:-:·:-:-:::::::::::::::::::::::::::;::::::::=::Anticipation 
Notre Dame's war with Army was a surprise. It was no shock that the 
Irish emerged victorious, however, it was surprising to witness the Irish 
operating out of a new offense. 
Yes, the wing-T attack that Notre Dame has used over the past few 
years was present Saturday, but that did not represent the only offense 
used. The I formation, a set which utilized the potential of the Irish 
running backs, was a sight to see. There were also glimpses of the veer. 
Both formations were completely new to the rushing arsenal. 
But why reveal a new offense the week before a very crucial game, the 
biggest game of the year? Well, being completely new to the Irish football 
team, it does take some experience to master the skills and actually 
understand how it will operate under game situations. 
The use of the l formation in Saturday's ballgame will allow the coaches 
to evaluate its effectiveness. However, the working of the offense were 
surely noted in this weekend's clash against the Cadets. 
What will be interesting this coming Saturday will be the method the Trojans use to defense their own offense. With one game of experience chalked up, hopefully, the Irish offense will be a little more polished Saturday when USC invades Notre Dame Stadium. 
Many were concerned how the Irish would fare after a week off. Notre 
Dame looked impressive offensively and defensively against Michigan 
State, however, their turnovers prevented them from blowing the game 
wide open. 

Would Notre Dame be looking ahead to Southern Cal? In the Meadowlands, the Irish were sluggish in the first half, but came on strong with a 17 point rally in the final two periods. In their first three games, the Irish did not take command of the football contest. However, in their last two battles, the Irish have controlled the game to the extent that the outcome seemed assured. Notre Dame may have been planning for the future when they instituted new offensive sets, but their performance Saturday showed they were prepared for Army. 
The defense has looked very strong the past two games. After a shaky showing against Purdue, the symbol of Notre Dame excellence has glowed. Giving up six points against Michigan State and being only the second team to shut-out Army this year was an accomplishment. Army quarterback Leamon Hall has broken all Cadet records. Knowing the Irish did not relinquish a point when considering how fast this signal caller could strike is very impressive. 
Yes, the Irish have looked good in their last two games, something which really did not show in their opening three games, with the exception of the poise they illustrated in their comeback victory over Purdue. But now the test is really approaching. 
Southern Call comes to Notre Dame with a 5-1 ledger, suffering only a 21-20 loss to Alabama a week ago at the Coliseum. The clash this weekend is essential to both clubs. Both teams already have one loss, and any chances either team has for a National Championship fall on the outcome of this game. 
If the sneak preview from East Rutherford was any idication of what's to come, then Irish fans may have a lot to look forward to. Many have said that Head Coach Dan Devine's wing-T offense is very dull. Well, whatever opinion Notre Dame enthusiasts have about the Notre Dame offense, those impressions may change. If the Irish attack continues to use this type of variation, things may be better in South Bend. 
This weekend will ten if all this ingenuity paid off. On Saturday, it will also be revealed if the Irish can perform against a national power. Notre Dame has only been able to defeat the Trojans once in the last ten years. Notre Dame's edge in the series, which now stands at 26-18-4, has been diminishing every season. 
The Irish have been improving and have displayed signs of hope for a climb back to the top. Notre Dame must avoid costly turnovers and take advantage of their opponent's errors. 
After Saturday, the Irish will know if their pre-season publicity was legitimate. No one expects the contest to be easy, but, with imagination in the new offensiye sets and dedication to its perfection, the Irish can .continue t(l rise to the top. 





