----------------------------------------------------·--------------------------------------------­
SMC class elections results announced 
by Patty Thorn 
Elections were held at St. Mary's yesterday for class officers, hall officers and Student Assembly representatives. 
Results of the race for senior class officers were Nancy Mogab, president, Pat Caserio, vice-pres­ident, Maureen Morris, secretary, and Shelagh Crook, treasurer. 
For Junior class officers, thC'­winning ticket was Donna Noonan, president, Marynell O'Connell, vice-president, Laura Brems, sec­retery and Linda Schultz, treas­urer. 
Sophomore class officers for next year will be Debbie Roberts, pres­ident. aara Theisen, vice-pres­ident. Carol Schroer, secretary and Pam lammarino, treasurer. 
Hall officers for Holy Cross next 
year are Mary Jo Kelly, president 
and Veo Navarre, vice-president. 
From LeMans Hall, the winners 
were Judy Eckelkamp, president 
and Linda Korczyk, vice president. 
Regina Hall, which has two vice-presidents, elected Susan Glockner as president and Noreen Bracken and Ann Bathon as vice-• elections resulted in the only run-off election. The ticket of Karen Bickel and Val Homola will run against Teresita Valdivia and Betsy Steitz tomorrow. 
Also elected were represen­tatives for Student Assembly. The representative from Augusta Hall will be Peggy Calhoun. Future residents of Holv Cross elected· Mary Anne Dempsey, Robyn Mc­Connell, Holly Rieger and Susan Ursitti. 
From LeMans, the represen­tatives will be Cathy Cahill, Mary Garrett, Oaire Hatch, Cathy Loftus and Meridy Niederkorn. McCand­less will be represented by Angela Andrews, Denisa Lynk and Karen VanGemert. 
Beth Cutter will represent Reg­ina, along with two other represen­tatives who will be elected next falL 
Off-campus students will be represented by Martha Praught and Debbie Simone. 
According to Election Commis­soner Marie-Lisa Mignanelli, 734 students voted in yesterday's e­lections. This constitutes over half of the St. Mary's student body, excluding the senior class which does not vote in these elections. Tomorrow's run-off election will be 


The 0 
server 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's 
Vol. XI, No. 114 Tuesday, April19, 1977 
Gryp names new personnel 
by Jack Pizzolato Senior Staff Reporter 
Emphasizing a "more open, more personal" Student Union, SU Director Tom Gryp recently au­nounced the names of 11 new appointees to key Union posts. 
Junior Jodie Korth will assume the position of SU assistant direc­tor, a post formerly held by Walt Ling. Korth worked on the SU Social Commission her sophomore year and this year served as the commission's executive coordina-
This beautiful summer weather has caused many classes to be moved outdoors. [Photo by Kevin Walsh] 
''I'm going to try to get the Union running smoothly," Korth said. She also noted that she would attempt to eliminate some of the conflicts that have arisen in the past over such issues as the SU budget. 
Junior Colleen McGrath will replace Marianne Morgan as the~­Union's new comptroller. McGrath has named Steve Schuster as her assistant. "We intend to make the office more efficient," she remark­ed. 
According to McGrath, the com­ptroller's office will ask that bud­gets for events be submitted be­forehand and that cost statements be filed afterwards. "We will also set up a system so that we can tell each week exactly how much money a commission has and how much it has spent," she added. 
Gryp called McGrath "the na­tural choice," noting that her experience as Social Commission comptroller had prepared her for the job. 
The post of social commissioner will be filled by junior Orest Deychakiwsky. Deychakiwsky ser­ved as assistant social commission­er under Kevin Saddler. "Basical­ly," Deychakiwsky said, "Saddler set up a sound structure and I plan to continue it." 
Deychakiwsky, however, said he planned to eliminate dances in LaFortune and to concentrate on "bigger events" such as Home­coming. He would like to expand the "popular" Nazz, scheduling more small concerts and luring more notable performers. 
''Also,'' Deychakiwsky stated, "We want to work more with the halls on co-sponsoring events." This, he continued, would cut down both the cost and the risk of hall-sponsored events, and serve to bring the Student Union closer to the students. 
The new cultural arts commis­sioner will be senior Chris Mahon. Mahon will replace Maura Dono­hue. 
~·Events like the Sophomore Lit­erary Festival pretty much rnn themselves,'' Mahon commented. '"My job will be primarily to publicize .what's going on, to coordinate the dates and make sure the event is financially set." 
Mahon did emphasize that he wanted to bolster interest in both the commission's dance and drama series and in the Isis gallery. 
Mahon previously served as cultural arts commissioner befoTe he left school for a semester. He will graduate next semester and will train an assistant to assume the 
· ~mmissioner's post in the spring. 
Junior Terry Joiner will take over the Student Union's Academic Commission, a position vacated by Jerry Hoffman. Joiner, who has served on the Academic Commis­sion, sees its task as ''to enlighten members of the student communitv on the relevant issues of the day_:. 
He plans no drastic changes in the commission's structure but will seek to divide the duties up more evenly among its members. "We're tossing ideas around ·and I'm open to suggestions on the kind of speakers we should have," Joiner said. '"We need. more input," he concluded. 
Sophomore Mike Schlageter will head the Student Union's Services Commission, replacing Genny Burke. Schlageter has no prior experience in the Union. "He's a new face," commented Gryp, ''but he's a bell of a worker and he'll get the job done." 
Sophomore Joe LaCosta will assume the position of SU ticket manager. The post was formerly held by Chris McCabe. Sophomore Jim Speiet will retain his position as SU concert commissioner . 
. Junior Rick Dullanty and Fresh­man Curt Hench have been appoin­ted executive aides to the SU director. Dullanty will work pri­marily on a SU manual and Hench will act as a "trouble-shooter," handling small problems the direc­tor has not time for. 
Three positions, SU public rela­tions commissioner, calendar com­missioner and movie commission­er, are newly created and reflect Gryp's concern with the Union's image. "People see tbe Student Union as a clique," Gryp said. "We want to come across as a 
· much more open, responsive group." 
Bonnie Bona, a junior, will serve as SU movie commissioner. The commission was developed in order to facilitate the scheduling of films. 
Fonnerly, both the Services Com­mission and the Cultural Arts Commission could schedule movies separately. 
The Calendar Commission will be headed by sophomore Mary Ann Moore. Moore will work closely with the halls. coordinating and collecting information on events in order to avoid an overcrowding of events on any one day. 
Gryp has not yet selected a public relations commissioner. Th~ commission will handle news releases, surveys and will work with the Student Government in 
[continued on page 2] 


Carter warns nation of energy crisis 
WASHINGTON [AP] -President or gas switch to coal. within the next week a detailed But U.S. imports of foreign o.. Carter, warning -the nation of the Such measures, Carter has said, book printed on the policy and the continued to rise. Imported oil peril posed by the growing energy would increase the cost of living, legislation needed to implement it amounted to abut 36 per cent of the 
crisis, sought to win widespread adding perhaps one-half of one per will be published. nation's total oil consumption in support for his energy program last cent to the nation's rate of in­'"It has been our goal to make 1974 and almost SO per cent early night with a nationwide address. flation. this a balanced proposal and it is this year, making the nation wl­Late yesterday afternoon, the our belief it is that," the spokes­n-:rable to another boycott. 
The President, who sought to President, energy adviser James man said. At the same time, shortages ofdefine the dimensions of the en­Schlesinger and policy chief Stuart Powell said he did not think natural gas became critical. Whenergy crisis, described his message Eizenstat sat in the. Cabinet Room anyone at the White House knew the nation faced the coldest winter as "unpleasant." 
going over the program. 
what the reaction to the energy on record this year, supplies of theWhite House press secretary Schlesinger, his collar open and policy would be. fuel dropped alarmingly ..FactoriesJody Powell said the speech out­tie loosened, told the President: Former Presidents Richard M. and schools were forced to shutlined ten principles for solving the "The basic thrust is that this is a Nixon and Gerald R. Ford also tried down to keep home furnaces burn­energy problem and avoiding the complete package ...and deals with similar efforts, but could not con­ing.
consequences of failing to act or the long-range problem of rising vince enough people to prompt Oil and gas producers said the'"continuing to do what we have ,energy prices.'' 
Congress to act on a comprehen­shortage stemmed in part fromHe said it calls on the American
been doing before.'' sive energy program. restrictive government policies and 
people to reject ''inevitable appeals 
A draft of Wbite House pro­Part of their failure stemmed price controls that kept them from 
from particular interests who will
posals obtained by news media from the fact that the nation's finding and producing enough oil 
claim everything in the policy is
showed that Carter was seriously energy crisis became clearly visible and gas to meet rising demands. 
fair" except the areas that apply to 
considering a "standby" gasoline only with the Arab oil embargo of But some. consumer advocates tax reaching as high as 50 cents a them. 1973, which ended almost as soon like Ralph Nader charged that the 
Powell said the President would
gallon, taxes ranging from $412 to as it began to hurt, leaving behind companies were hiding reserves of 
ask that the policy be judged on
$2,500 on gas-guzzling automobiles tripled oil prices but only the fading fuel in order to drive up prices and and price hikes on oil and natural memory of long lines at gasoline profits.
whether it is in the best interest of the nation as a whole.
gas. • stations. Energy analysts like S. David The energy draft also pointed to The spokesman said the Pres­As those memories faded and Freeman argued the the nation's mandatory standards for building ident had made final decisions on 
people got used to the higher fuel energy appetite was too gluttonous insulation and appliance efficiency specific policy questions that will prices, the energy t:risis seemed and should be drastically reduced. and measures to make power be presented in his speech to less urgent and, to many, less f'reeman is now an aide to Schles­plants and industries that burn oil Congress tomorrow night and that .reaL inger, Carter's top energy advisor . 

:.h ,~·~ 

the observer Tuesday, April19, 1977 
,...--News Briefs--..... 
I 

I===========National1 
1 
Boston Marathon 
BOSTON -Canada's Jerome Drayton, beaten badly during Bill Rodgers' record-smashing victory two years ago, turned the tables yesterday en route to an easy triumph in the 81st Boston Marathon. As expected, Drayton and Rodgers hooked up in an early duel in a record field of 2,933 starters, including 126 women. Drayton finished the race in two hours, 14 minutes, and 46 seconds. 

Psycopath hunted 
NEW YORK-He has killed four young women, all with long, dark hair. He has used the same big-barrelled pistol in each slaying and unless he is caught soon, psychiatrists said yesterday, the elusive psychopath will probably kill again. Police say the killer is "a psychologically disturbed person," but know little else about the murderer. 

Delay auto pollution standards 
WASHINGTON -The Carter administration urged yesterday that tougher controls on automobile pollution be delayed at least one year. At the same time, the administration asked Congress for standby authority to impose a tax of S6S to $120 on 1983 model cars that fail to meet tough nitrogen oxide standards which may be imposed in that model year. The tax would go into effect only if the tougher standard is imposed and would remain in effect only until the cars were able to meet it. 
..,__On Campus Today~ 
12 noon brown bag luncheon. "the ambrosiana collection and medieval art at notre dame" by dean porter, director, art gallery. 
3:30pm computer course. speakezy. continuation of course begun april 14. computer center/math bldg. 
4:30pm lecture. "biology and behavior: cause or correla­tion?" by dr. d. chris anderson & dr. charles r crowell, n.d. rm 278, galvin life science center. 
7, 9, 

& 11 pm film. "take the money and run" eng. aud. $1, 
7:30pm : meeting. charismatic eucharistic prayer meeting. 
7:30pm 
8 pm 
8 pm 8:15pm 9 pm 9-11 pm 10 pm 



SU alters .club registration 
by Joe Bauer 

The office of Student Activities has announced a new procedure for registering·· clubs and organiza­tions. All organizations, except dormitories and class officers, are required to register with Student Actidti~-s before the end of April. Registration will be required an· 
nuall~·. 

A,yording to John Reid, assis· 
*The Observer 
Night Editor: Paul Schappler Asst. Night Editor: Steve Odland Layout Staff: Patti Vidal, Cindy McKiel, Mary Beth Hudak, Paula Carroll Editorial Layout: Maureen Flynn Sports Layout: Frank LaGrotta, Paul Stevenson Typists: Nancy Cueroni, Karen Chiames, Stephanie Urillo, Leigh Tunakan Night Controller: Donald Roos Day Editor: Mary Pat Tarpey 
>C:opy'ft~ader:~ Cat!w-No~n-­
log chapel. 

film. "five minutes to midnight": presentation of inequity in the third world. galvin life science aud. no admission charge. · 
commemoration. "holocaust: we remember" a commemoration of european jewry on the 34th anniversary of the uprising in the warsaw ghetto. monogram room, ace. 
films. national student film festival of prizewinning films. av theater, cce. no charge.
' 

concert. university of notre dame orchestra. washington hall. 
an tostal organizational meeting. Iafortune ballroom. all volunteers should attend this meeting. 
nazz, brian evans, rich spangler. the Iafortune basement. 
film. "how to say no to a rapist and survive". farley basement. admission free. 
tant director of Student Activities, what sources of funds the club the changes have been made in expects and projected expenses. order to "clear up what the clubs Reid emphasized that registra­are and who are the officers. This tion with Student Activities will is an attempt to make the clubs provide benefits for the groups. more aware of the benefits of the For example, concession stands at office of Student Activities and football games and other campus become more organized." events can only be sponsored 
To receive preliminary approval through Student Activities. The from Student Activities, each or-office can also help prepare events, ganization must submit a written provide press releases and gain constitution. The constitution approval for the use of University should include the name, purpose, facilities. membership requirements, duties The Student Activities office also of officers, election and impeach· announced the procedure for ob­ment procedures, the way funds taining a concession stand during are to be handled, and amendment the next football season. All proceedings. registered clubs, along with the 
Besides submitting a constitu· residence halls and the class offi­tion, clubs must update their cers, apply for a stand before Apr. membership roster with Student 30 if they wish to have one. A Activities. Reid explained this is in lottery will then be held, assigning ollder for . his office to answer twelve concession sites for each of questions from employers such as the five home games. The results "Did John Doe play rugby for four I will be announced before the years?" summer vacation begins. 
Student Activities will also re-In regard to concessions, Reid quire and approve a list of project-stated that the lottery is an attempt ed activities, a statement of finan-to "share the wealth." It gives cial standing twice a year and a each or~anization a 
,-~Maget. •'fh'e'b"ud'iet\lloh:Id lni!Mil! ··~·s-p5ri~or· a'itJ()ifi..lt'tr u"'''""'"· 

Pulitzer Prize winners named 

NEW YORK [AP] Walter Mears, chief political writer of the Associated Press (AP) yesterday won the 1977 Pulitzer Prize for national reporting for his coverage of the 1976 presidential campaign. 
The AP's Neal Ulevich shared the prize for spot news photog­raphy with Stanley Forman of the Boston Herald American. Ulevich was honored for pictures taken in Bangkok during a student uprising. 
Forman was cited for a picture taken during an antibusing demon­stration in Boston. 
Alex Haley, author of the contro­versial "Roots," won a special book award in the arts field after judges were unable to place the best-seller in a specific category. 
The book, which earlier won a National Book Award, deals with the author's efforts to trace his lineage back to Africa. A television film of the book was the most­watched show in history. 
The coveted Public Service A­ward in journalism was won by the Lufkin, Tex., News. The 13,000 circulation daily was honored for a 
series of stories on a deathe at a local Marine Corps training camp. The News' stories led to a congres­sional investigation and fundamen­
, tal reform in Marine recruiting and training practices. The annual Pulitzer Priz·~s in the arts and journalism were endowed by the ]ate Joseph Pulitzer, pub-
SU appointees named 
[continued from page 1] preparing a student newsletter. Gryp views Public Relations as a viable means for closing what he considers a communications gap between the Union and students. "It will also show a lighter side of the organization," Gryp said. "The Student Union was too serious last year," he continued. "We're here to learn and to have a good time too." All appointments are subject to the approval of the SU Board of Directors. 


Third World film to be shown 
"Five Minutes to Midnight", a powerful British film that addres­ses problems in the Third World, will be shown tonight in the "alvin Life Science Auditorium at 7;30 p.m. 
The film challenges the role of the developed nations in interna­tional development and points out the inequities that exist in tne world. All students are encouraged to attend. There is no admission charge. 

lisher ot the now defunct New York 
World. Each prize carries a $1,000 
cash award, except for the Public 
Service Award, which is a gold 
medal. 
The awards are bestowed by Columbia University on recom­mendation of an advisory board. 
There were no awards this year for fiction of for international reporting. 
Other prizes in journalism in­cluded: 
•Margo 
Huston of the Milwaukee Journal, general local reporting. 

• 
Acel Moore and Wendell Rawls Jr., of the Philadelphia lnquierer, special local reporting. 

•Warren 
Lerude, Foster Church and Norman F. Cardoza of the Reno, Nev., Evening Gazette and Nevada State Journal, editorial writing 

•Paul 
Szep of the Boston Globe, editorial cartooning. 

•Robing 
Hood of the Chattanooga News Free Press, feature photog­raphy. 

•George 
F. Will of the Washington 


Bio department sponsors seminar 
The Notre Dame Bioiogy Depart­
ment is sponsoring a seminar, 
"Biology and Behavior: Cause or 
Correlation?" today at 4:30 p.m. 
Featured speakers at the semi­
nar are Drs. Chris Anderson and 
Charles Crowell, both of Notre 
Dame. The seminar will be held in 
room 278 Galvin Life Science 
Center. The public is invited to 
attend. 


ERRATUM 
It was reported that admission to see the Emmett Kelly Jr. Circus perform at St. Mary's was $.50. 
Admission is free. The circus will perform at 3 and S p.m. 
..-------..
NEED LOW-COST 
I

I I
TRANSPORTATION?I We can help. , Contact: ~·I Auto Driveaway Co. 674-9786 
1:

I Deposit Required i 
Laundry 

Redemption 
Laundry Plant Door 2 May 2-6 9-llam. 
1-3pm~ 
STOP RUNNING all the way to Lafortune 
Now you can get your Observer classifieds at the St. Mary'•Observer offi 
~egina South Basement 
Mon. Weds. Fri. 1:30-3:00 · Tues. Thurs. 1:00-3.:00 
Post Writers Group, commentary. 
•William McPherson of the Wash­ington Post, criticism. 
In the arts, the drama award went to Broadway's "The Shadow Box," in which actor and play­wright Michael Cristofer explored the lives of eight persons dealing with the impending deaths of three of them. It opened March 31, the last day of which it was eligible for a 1977 Pulitzer. 





Reporters promoted 

Four Observer writers have been promoted to staff reporters by the news department. 
Joining the staff are Tim Lew, a junior from Shorewood, Wise., Mark Perry, a freshman from Naperville, Ill., Mike Lewis, a freshman from Nashville, Ind. and Diane Wilson, a freshman from Montpelier, Ind. 
The Observer is published Monday through Friday and weekly during the summer session. except during the exam and vacation periods The Observer is published by students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $20 per year ($10 per 5emester) from The ObsPr· ver. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 Second class postagP paid, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 
ThP Obserwr rs a member of thp Assonated PrPss All rPprodurtron rrghts are re'>erved 

upon 

Tuesday, April19, 1977 the observer 
Tea and rice dinner planned for Food Day 
by Jake Morrissey Staff Reporter 

The Notre Dame-Saint Mary's World Hunger Coalition is spon­soring a tea and rice dinner in Line A of the North Dining Hall, according to Jack D' Aurora, coalition chairman. 
The dinner, D' Aurora ex­plained, is Notre Dame's way of celebrating International Food Day, officially scheduled for 
Thursday.  "It is  our  way of  
iiiustrating  the  world  hunger  
problem," he said.  

The entire celebration, D' aur­ora continued, has a two-fold function. "On one hand," D Aurora said, • 'there is the idea of demonstrating to the Notre Dame community the inequit­able distribution of the world's food supply. On the other hand is the idea of eating a meal that is personally nutritious---that is, eating a meal that doesn't contain chemical additives, fil­lers or extra sugar." 
Following the meal will be a short film presented by the coalition. 
Students who have any ques­tions concerning this event should contact Jack; D' Aurora. South Quad students who have signed up for the meal are reminded that the meal wiii only be served in the North Dining Hall, line A. Even though the dinner is Wednesday, fasters are also reminded that they are able to participate in the cele­bration. 

Campaign for Notre Dame: a collection of endowments 
by Drew J. Bauer Senior Staff Reporter 

Editor's Note: This is the first of a series of articles on the campaign for Notre Dame, covering the various aspects of the campaign. 
In the last fifteen years, Notre Dame has conducted three major fund-raising programs. 
"Challenge I" brought to the University the Memorial Library-­what was then the largest collegi­ate library in the world. 
"Challenge II" resulted in the $8.6 million Athletic and Convoca­tion Center. The $61 million "SUMMA" ended with the addi­tion of Grace and Flanner Halls, Hayes-Healy and several other buildings to the campus, plus the expansion of the graduate division. 
Among these three campaigns, there was the one common de­nominator--the expansion of the physical facilities of the University. 
But The Campaign for Notre Dame, which was kicked off last week before trustees, alumni, friends and the news media, has a different character and goal than the three other development programs. 
Although some construction will be funded by the campaign, over $92 million (71 percent) raised by the program will be used for additional endowment. 
During the past week, the Uni­versity has sent thousand of media­kits and letters explaining the goals and finances of the campaign. 
"The Campaign for Notre Dame will be remembered for one word: endowment," according to Richard 
W. Conklin, director of Information Services. 
An endowment consists of gifts to the university with the restric­tion that only the income or profit from the investment of the gift can be used. Even if the university went bankrupt, it could not touch the capital unless it went to the courts and got permission. 
"Endowment is to the private ! university what the state legis­lature is to the state-supported . 
schools," said Conklin.  "Endow­ 
ment  is  simply  funds  that  the  
university  invests  and  uses  the  

income for a variety of purposes." 
•'The reason an endowment is so . 
College republicans to hold 
officer elections 
The Notre Dame College Repub­lican Club will hold its annual elecion of officers tonight at 7 p.m. in the LaFortune Little Theatre. 
All active members of the dab are eligible to vote. Featured speaker will be Jack Donis, former Third District congressional can­didate. All interested students and 
facp.Jty _~rF)!J.yjtesi.tP. ~tj~ll4·•. h. , 
~·~~.-~~~·A~~~~J~J~~~~44~J~~ ! .~ ••-j-i_.J.,\.:. ,.;. II/,•~ .J. ..J,.I.•.Jr'.-' ·"'.J;~.J -'J 
necessary to the University is that it is a continual income that can be always drawn on to meet increasing costs, no matter what financial shape the country is in," said one administrator. 
"Without an endowment, we would have to raise tuition and other fees even more than we do now to keep up with the cost of living and any improvements we might want to make," he added. 
The University lost $1,889,730 in the total value of the endowment in fiscal year 1975 when the stock market fell due to the "Nixon recession." But even then the fund earned a total of $4,180,974 in investment income. 
The enlarging of the endowment fund stemmed from recommenda­tions made by the Committee on University Priorities (COUP). COUP found that the Notre Dame endowment was "sadly small" for a school of its size and "such large hopes." 
"The idea is to create a dramatic increase in our endowment which is needed to push the University ahead academically," said Conklin. 
Current Endowment Figures 
Notre Dame currently has a $108 million endowment. According to a Chronicle of Higher Education survey last year, Harvard has the largest endowment ($1.3 billion). Other universities in the top ten are: Yale ($518 million), Columbia ($435 million), Princeton ($398 million), Stanford ($364 million), University of Rochester ($356 million), University of California ($255 million), Northwestern ($242 million) and Rice ($173 million). 
If the campaign is successful, Notre Dame will have a total' of $200 million in endowment, and Will be tenth among universities and colleges. 




Progress made under SBP Bilek 
by Jean Powley St. Mary's Editor 

Looking back on her year as St. Mary's Student Body President (SBP), Mary Lu Bilek feels that it was a great step forward in student government's relationship with its constituents. 
Her basic goal as SBP was to increase student respect for and awareness of student government so that more students would run for class, hall, student assembly and other student government offices. The fact that two tickets competed for next year's SBP last month shows that Bilek's administration did, in fact, make progress in this area. 
A bimonthly student government newsletter was the vehicle through which Bilek hoped to communicate with students and make them more. aware of student government's activities, she told voters last spring. Such a newsletter, "The Grapevine," was indeed published this year at least once a month and sometimes twice a month. Bilek admitted, however, that she would like to see some improvements made in the publication if it is continued next year. 
The creation of two new student­run councils this year also enhan­ced student government's visibil­ity, Bilek said. Vice-president for Academic Affairs Cathy Coyne won the confidence of both stu­dents and faculty through l)er efforts in establishing an Academic Council to discuss students' aca­demic rights and problems. 
The formation of a St. Mary's Hall Presidents's Council (HPC), with a structure parellel to Notre Dame's HPC, was also a "very positive" step. Admitting that the ocuncil's formation was not her doing and simply occured during her term, Bilek explained that th e council eased communication be­tween halls and between St. Mary's and Notre Dame. Hall policies and activities became more 
Fellowship awarded 

John H. Moran of Chicopee, Mass. has been awarded a Herbert 
H. Lehman Graduate Fellowship from the State of New York. The· political science major plans to pursue graduate studies in Cornell University's department of govern­ment. 
Providing a maximum stipend of $19,000 for up to four years of graduate study, the fellowships were established bv the New York legislature in 196S to honor. the former governor and senator. Thirty students and an equal number of alternates are selected from thousands of applicants on the basis of scholarship and demon­strated ability to successfully com­plete graduate studies. 
Student Government Weekly Forum This Wednesday and every Wednesday at 6:30pm Room 2-D La Fortune Anyone And Everyone Welcome 
This Week's Special Guest · Tom Gryp, ·s. U. Director 
consistent and many more projects and activities were planned jointly. 
Accordingly, Bilek defines the purpose of student government as "coming up with ideas for halls and classes to carry out, coordinating activities and changing college policies." She feels that her administration has effectively ac­complished this. 
More social events were held on St. Mary's campus this year, with 
improved publicity and coordina­tion between activities. In addi­tion, a proposal for 21-year-old drinking on campus was initiated, the need for a student center was acknowledged and taken to the administration, the Coffee House was re-established, a proposal for a SMC Senior Bar was initiated, and finally, the government arranged for St. Mary's to host the Emmett Kelly Jr. Circus during An Tostal. 
Bilek's largest project is an application for a grant to form a Women's College Coalition which would bring together student lead­ers from women's colleges across the country to discuss curriculum, athletics, problems and progress. Bilek explained that she has found that national student associations do not address the problems of private women's colleges. 
The SMC Cevelopment Officed has assisted Bilek in applying for 
various grants. They are still awaiting an answer. 
'It would be a big step for St. Mary's to be the initiator of such a coalition," she said. 

to Bilek, her biggest 



Uhe Winlljammer 
CREATIVE HAIR DESIGN FOR THE SEXES 
RElAXING ATMOSPHERE 
FREE HAm ANALYSIS RK RETAIL CENTER 
1637 LWW 
So. Bend 
232-6622 
, Appt. only. 
problems were parietals, the park­ing lot, the shuttle and making student aware of the fact that St. Mary's had a student government which could accomplish something. 
•'I was very disappointed with the fate of the parietals issue," she said, explaining that it was a very touchy issue which has to be handled carefully and taken slow­ly. Consequently, much student interest was lost. She said, however, that she is sure that parietals are still an issue. 
In respect to parking lot prob­lems, Bilek explained that they had worked for months under a set of given conditions and tried to comp­romise. Then after their proposal was, announced, the set of givens were changed, making their work worthless. 
Finally, the shuttle complaint board which she set up worked on signs and the schedule, but regret­ably, it was "too slow to be effective". 
When asked if she had any advice to pass on to her successor, Mary Rukavina, she replied, "My advice to her is to delegate enough responsibility to competent people so that she doesn't get caught up in the nitty gritty. She must keep an eye on the whole picture. She must be able to step back and look objectively.'' 
Intn••••••ffnaac•mJ;j3 

PREPARE FOR: 

~·Wl·~ 
GIIAT • GRE • OCAT \Ill' • SAT ECFI6. FLEX 
NAn IEIICAL BOARDS 

on IDTAL BOARDS 
Our tJto•d r1mge or orogrems prOv•des .,, umbrella or lesr­''19 l.:now-ho• th•t en•bles us to orrer the best preparat.on 
<tv••l•ble no marrer wh•ch coutse •s rall.en Over 38 years 
ol e•Pe••Pncf' and success Small classes Votummous 
hOme Sludy malenalt Courses that arf! constanllv up 
dlled Permanpnl centers open day\ Pvenmgs & weE>k 
ends aH year Comp1Pie tape tac•l•l•es lor rev•P.W of class 
lessons 11nr1 lor use of supplemPnlary malenals Make ups 
lor rn•ssf!d lessons at our centers 
SPBING,SUMMEB~WINTEB COMPACTS MOST CLASSES-~ WEEKS BEF,EX.UI 
COURSES SOON TO COMMENCE; 
GBE-LSAT-GMAT-SAT 
, 2050 W 0Non Chicago, Ill. 60645J=ti1 
1312) 764 5151 
IDUCA.,...._ Cllf'RII 
tlll' .,.PMlATIC)III 
INCIAUST5 SIM.l ,.. 

Why Is This Animal Hiding? Because he knows the Emmett Kelly Jr. 


CIRCUS 
is coming to St.. Mary's 
Thursday, April 21 at 3:00pm & 5:00pm FREE for ND·SMC Community 
General Adm. -50¢; 
Refreshments available 

opinio n !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!"!!!!!!!!!!!



%The Observer 
EDITORIAL BOARD 

.m indt•pt•ndt•nt student newspdper 
UMO·C: 
'>t'rving notn• do~me dnd st. mary'-. 
The Observer I'> Jlubll'>ht•d by students of the University of Notre· D.mw .md St Mary'o, College. It does not nc..-, . .,.,,,nly n·tl•..-I tlu· pol lett''> of either institution. The n•·wo, ,., n·purlt..-1 "" c11 1uralely and as objectively as po-..,,l,lt· I dtlun.t!.. n·prt"'>l'nl the opinion of a majority of tilt· I tltlun.tl Bo.trd Comm1·ntanes, opinions and letters .~r~· tlw vww'> of tlu·ir otuthor'> Column space is available lu .til nu"fnhc·ro, of tlw community, and letters are 
•·m uur.lg•..-1 to promott· thl' fret• expression of varying OJ>IIHUil'> Oil I •llllJJU'> 
HoxQ

Bu'>JJII''>'> M.tn.tgt•r Sut• Quigley Notre Dame
Adv••r11'>1llJ.: M.m.tg•·r Slt·vt• Bonomo l'nKiu• lton M.uMgt•r K;m·n Ch1ames Ind. 46556 
Mart1 Hogan Editor-in-Chief Martha r anning Managing Editor Bob Brink Asst Managing Ed Kathy Mill-:. Executive Editor Mauret'n Flynn Editorial Editor Barb Breilt>n~tem Exec. News Editor 
Tom ByrnE' Campus Editor · JPan Powlt>y St. Mary's Editor Kat1e Kerwm News Editor 
Paul Stevenson Sports Editor Pat Colt> Special Projects Ed. Oav1d 0' Keefe Features Editor 
Copy Editor Barb langhenry Photo Editor Paul Clt>venger 
----------------------------------------------------------------··
-
Tuesday, April19, 1977 


Scalpers' Heyday 
A letter on today's Editorial page from Senior Marty White gives the results of a meeting between himself, Senior Carol 
Malone  and  University  President  Fr.  
Theodore M. Hesburgh:  the graduation  
ceremony  will  not  be  moved  to  the  

stadium. This means that tickets will be limited as originally announced. 
The announce·ment is disturbing, because some family and friends of the graduates must now necessarily be ex­cluded from the graduation ceremony ..Fr. Hesburgh's mapr objection--that a stad­ium ceremony would pose security prob­lems that might cause the Secret Service to advise against Carter's visit--may. have some validity. Apparently, however, the Administration has made no effort to ascertain if this is so. 
The University should check with Carter and the Secret Service to see if the situation can be worked out, and the Senior Class should write to Carter personally urging him to give his cooperation. (H the problem is indeed insunnountable, the University will be providing access to WNDU-TV's live broadcast of the ceremony.) 
An even more disturbing development in the limited admissions dilemma is an observation made by White to The Observer: signs and ads offering to buy and sell graduation tickets have appeared on campus. As White commented, '"Ibis is really sad." 
The five-ticket allocation at least guaran­tees that the parents and three other members of each graduate's circle will be able to attend. Extra tickets returned to the graduation committee will be dis­
lributed as equitably as possible among 
those desiring them. 
But the buying and selling of graduation 
tickets, distasteful enough in theory, 
upsets the committee's attempts to be as 
fair as possible in the circumstances. Now 
students who have money to spend--either 
their own or their family' s--will be able to 
buy as many tickets as they are offered. 
The number of tickets available as extras 
to less affluent students will consequently 
decrease significantly. Someone's fifth 
cousins are inevitably going to tal~e up 
places that should have gone to another 
student's grandparents, brothers and 
sisters, etc. And it isn't hard to figure out 
that someone along the line is going to 
make a pretty big profit. 
The graduation of any one senior is the result of much love and work by many people: parents, relatives, friends and faculty. All deserve to be included in the commencement celebration. limiting tickets casts a damper on the occasion, but the buying and selling of tickets, at the expense of other seniors and their families, perverts the spirit of the event. 
Seniors with extra tickets should tum them in to the graduation committee for distribution to those who would like more. Students who want these tickets snould apply for them to the committee. The Administration should try to discourage students from engaging in the ticket trade. 
Everyone may not be perfectly satisfied with this arrangement, _but this time for community celebration should not be turned into a heyday for ticket scalpers. Haven't we learned anything in four years? 
opinion~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
My Turn 

iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiima ry r uka vi n a 
I ha\·e been in office as St. Man·"s newl\'-elet:1ed student body pn:sident f~r about three weeks m'w. During those three weeks I h;~n· had time to gi\'e considerable 1hou~ht to the upcoming year and all that Kathy. Cath\·. and I have pl.mned. We wrote a platform tilkd with ideas we believed in. anJ which we hoped others would alStl bei\'-'YC in. As it turned out. t:m•ugh s!Udents did. and we were de'i.·ted. 
Something else happened in the elt."<-·ti'-'n though. something that gave e\·en greater satisfaction to manv people. There was a record­seuing turnout at the polls. Sixty pen:ent of the student body chose to exen;se "their right to vote. 
A\though l am extremely happy with that turnout, which will un­doubtedly provide my ticket with the support we "'ill need in the upt"Oming year, I sti\1 wonder about the other 700 students who chose, for whatevn-reason. not to vote. 1 wouJdn't be much ofa student body president if1didn't feel concern for those 700 students. 
The title of SBP implies that I represent the entire student body to the best of my ability, and those 700 students a·ho didn't vote are included in that student body rm sure many students probably think l"m unrealistic, crazy. or both. for wanting a one-hundred percent turnout at the polls. In­deed. I suppose. there are some students who feel I should be content and happy with the voting turnout and would probably tell me not to press my luck. 
Why then am I making such a big deal over this? Simply to make a point. Many students have high aspirations and set goals for them­selves. The problem arises when the goals are reached and they become <.:ontent and satisfied. This is not to say that we shouldn't be satisfied with our accomplishments and the fulfillment of our goals. I am saying that we should avoid setting our goals too low, for this only breeds limited vision. 
As an example, for some stu­dents here, just attending and graduating from Notre Dame or St. Mary· s is the highest goal they will set for themselves. For others, getting_ a C _in _a CO';II"SC_ they_ are rtrugglmg wtth ts sattsfymg. Fmai­
•Y. we can look back on my original point of how some St. Mary's students feel that a sixty percent voter turnout is the highest goal to be expected in an election. Can we Jford to be satisfied with these achievements alone? I thin\ not. 
to bigger and better things. 
The tendency is for all of us to lay back and bask in the radiance of our past achievements, instead of constantly setting bigger and bet­ter things for ourselves. We should not set unreachable goals for ourselves. but at the same time we must not let our efforts to avoid this make us set our goals too low. 
This tendency can be avoided by constantly extending our vision and elevating our sights. We can become like Gulliver in Jonathan Swift"s Gulliver's Tranels. His travels take him to the land of Brordingnag, where the people are all giants and he must constantly look up and elevate his thinking to their level. When you reach one goal, why not set another? !f 1001 students voted in this election, why not try to get 1700 out to vote next time? 
My two vice-presidents and I have great hopes of achieving some of our goals for the upcoming year, but the accomplishments of those single goals will mean nothing if they are not directed at an even larger goal. We want to do things which will make St. Mary's the best women's college in America'. Our goals can never be a means to an end. Instead, they must serve as 


Road to Notoriety 
~~iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimork szoflarski 
would be as much drudgery as a 
fall semester without football 
games and tailgaters," Mike ans­
wered condescendingly. 
"What goes on?" 

"It's like a week-long party. 
Tugs of war and chariot races in the 
mud, picnics and carnivals on the 
quads. And it all ends with a 
massive Irish wake at Stepan 
Center where the Ugly Man on 
Campus is crowned.'' 

"What's Ugly Man on Cam­
pus?" 

Mike and Peter's eyes lit up, and 
Stevie sensed the glow of a mutual, 
unverbalized idea between the two 
juniors. 

"UMOC? It's what we're going 
to have you elected. H you loot like 
you do this morning, you'II be a 
shoe-in.'' 

"Wait a minute! What is it, why 
me?" Stevie stammered. 

"It's a charity fund raising drive 
held An Tostal by a service 
fraternity on campus, Alpha Phi 
Omega, to help out Sister Marrita's 
Primary Day School in South Bend. 
They set up booths in the dining 
hall and everyone contributes mo­
ney in the name of someone they 
think could win the title. One penny 
buys one vote, and this year you're 
going to win. We'D be your 
campaign managers. It's all in fun 
and it goes to charity." 

"Charity? Are you sure it's only 
in joking? I mean, what about all 
the girls I know? What will they 
think?" 

"Both of them will love it. We 
had better get started right away. 
Last year over $400 won, but 
looking at you now, Heppo doesn't 
have a chance. You'll win a. 
and a dinner or something. 

"Well," he said as the Ood 
began to rush through his body, 
excited by the prospect of becom­
ing a campus celebrity, "l'U do it! 
UMOC-eh?" 

"Great! Listen no shower till we 
get a picture of you, OK?" 

"Sure," Stevie said as he re­
turned to his room. His hangover 
was gone and he floated over to his 
clock-radio. Cranking the tiny kuob 
up to eight he sat bact in his bed 
just in time to hear the last chords 
of "Stairway to Heaven." 

would be speaking to a crowd of 12,000 in a comfortable, air-condi­tioned, domed structure, the ACC. He also assured Carter that secur­ity problems in the ACC would be minimal. Fr. Hesburgh informed Carol and me of the technical difficulties the Secret Service would face if asked to prepare for a ceremony in both the stadium and the ACC (in case of rain). He also stated that such a change in plans would probably not be acceptable 
to the Secret Service. 

This security problem seemed to 
be the biggest and perhaps the only 
valid. arguable reason to refuse to 
cha~~ethe location of graduation. 
And so, fellow graduates, when 
many of you are trying to decide 
which of your relatives will recieve 
tickets, remember Fr. Hesburgh's 
thoughts as he expressed them to 
Carol and me yesterday, "Y~ 
students should be grateful fur the magnificent graduation you will have in May. It is the best thus far in Notre Dame's history and per­haps the best in the United States this spring." 
1 only wish Fr. Hesburgh would 
have considered the desires of the ­
graduates before inviting Carter. I 
also wish he had given us a choice 
between unlimited seatin2 and a 
less well-know celebrity or a ticket 
limit with the honor of having 
President Carter speak to us. But 
he gave us no choice and seemingly 
no consideration. Now it is too late· 
to uninvite Carter and, in Fr. 
Hesburgh's words, it is "too bush" 
to hold oar (!] ceremony in the 
There are mornings you wake up and you realize something is going to happen. You feel it, lite the rumbling repercussions of an ap­proaching freight train. You know that recognition is bound to search
1 
you out. Stevie woke up with just 
' such a feeling. The clock radio went off to the sound of some smart-alec\ disc jockey playing Led Zeppelin at 8:13 in the morning. 
He knew that today would be his day, one that would have him rise above the other Notre Dame fresh­men in their plight of obscurity. He didn't know why, but today, hang­over and all, would be his day to set himself apart from the hundreds of other plebians who roamed the campus. 
He looted into the mirror and searched the face that would serve as his calling card to a profitable destiny. His usually blonde hair pleaded for washing in its darken­ing hue, and stuck out at acute angles from his scalp in knotted twists of unkempt squalor. His mouth felt lite one of those delapidated barns one sees on a trip through Wisconsin, weather­beaten into an obscure aura of dust, cobwebs, and unhinged doors. His body felt as though it were submerged in a vat of dining hall pork chops. He shoo\ his head and crawled towards the bathroom. 
As long as he had been at Notre Dame he had wondered how to distinguish himself as a freshman on this campus. He wished for some sort of e:::posure. He remem­bered the time he had run through the halls of Farley in a bathrobe, wearing army boots, a black wig, a Mexican sombrero and holding a rubber chicken in an attempt to mate an impression on the girls. 
He sought to be famous, yet met only infamy. 
As he approached the washroom he overheard two juniors discuss­ing the coming events of spring. 
"Hey, who's this Aunt Ostal you guys are talking about?" 
After waiting for the laughter that met his unknowing question to subside, be was enlightened. 
"An Tostal is a wee\ of festivit­ies that mark the Irish celebration of spring. Without it, the spring 

P.O. Box Q 

No stadium 
Dear Fellow Seniors, On April 4, I submitted several petitions to Fr. Hesburgh contain­ing 850 signatures. These petitions supported a change in location of the graduation ceremony from the ACC to the stadium in order to accomodate more relatives and friends of graduates. Included was a letter from myself explainir.g the rationale for such a change and how it could be done. Also included was a letter of support from our Senior Class President, Rob Tully. On Wednesday, April 13, Carol Malone and I discussed the issue personally with Fr. Hesburgh. During the course of our 90 minute conversation, we learned that the decision to bold graduation in the ACC was made months ago. The fact that over half the total number of undergraduates receiving a de­gree in May are dissatisfied with the decision ha'i not affected the administration's position in any way. We could have coUeded 2,000 signatures and_ 5,000 letters. from parents, relat!ves, and friends. However, even this effort, I be­lieve, would .Jave been ignored. The dC<"ision stands and perhaps only Jimmy Carter himseH could convince Fr. Hesburgh to mate a change. In his first letter in\"iting Carter 
to speak'411 graduation, Fr_. Hes­stadium.
whether they realize it or not. I do They do serve a purpose. however, ever-growing foundations for 
Marty White
not mean to harp oo this point and and that purpose is to provide steps .·gr~ater and higher go~Js. 
hurgb i.nformt.--d Car1;er that he 
----~~------­
Tuesday, April 19, 19n the observer 






Additional ND courses set for 77-78 


FAHt.W note: 'Ihis is the aecoad put of a two part 8eries dealiDg with aew coanes lit Notre Dole for the 77-78 school yeu. 
Several additions have been made to the Modern and Oassical Languages Deaprtment. Fnlacb F.nlighteameat (MLFR 451) has been restructured. Prof. Anne La­combe will direct readings of the works of dramatists, poets, novel­ists and philosophical and political writers ofthe French 18th century. 
Iatenaediate Model'll Irish (MLCE 121) will continue the work of Celtic 112 with increased em­phasis on grammatical aspects. Readings in contemporary Irish prose and poetry and oral practice will be expanded. The instructor will be Prof. Robert Nuner. 
Prof. Thomas Renaldi will teach Utenture of the Me:dean Kevolu­tioa (MLSP 493). The revolution will be examined as a cultural phenomenon. Readings will in­clude texts, novels, drama and poetry which cover the political, military and institutional pahses of the revolution from 1900-1940. 
lA c:omedia Esplmola (MLSP 

431) will be taught by Prof. Nancy D'Antuono. A critical evaluation of representative Golden Age plays will highlight the major themes, their intense national character and . the strengths and limitations of their conventions. 
Maoism (PHIL 241) has been restructured. according to the Phil­osophy Department. The course, taught by Prof. Simon, will exam­ine the thought of Karl Marx and Frederick Engels and cover the entire span of their works from Economic and Philosophical Man­uscripts of 1844 to Capital. 
Topics to be considered include the nature of historical material­ism, alienation, labor, and ide­ology, theory of class struggle and revolution, Marx's critique of b"'b­eralism and the state and the theory of communism. 
Prof. William Solomon will teach Medical Eahics (PHH278), an ex­ploration of numerous ethical pro­blems in contemporary biomed­icine. Topics to be considered will include euthanasia, abortion, al­location of scarce medical resour­ces, truth-telling in the doctor-pa­tient relationship, the right to medical care and informed consent and human expenmentation. 
matism. The works of C.s. Peirce, William James, George Herbert Mead and John Dewey will be considered, with special attention given to their views on the nature of thought, development of self­consciousness and the relation of mind to external reality. Prof. Stephens will be the instructor. 
Philosophy of IDstory (PHIL 

329) will cover problems concern­ing the nature of history, under­stood both as the totality of past human events and our inquiry into and knowledge of these events. Various veiws of history such as those of Marx, Hegel and Freud will be discussed. In addition, such issues as progress, determinism and the role of the "great Man" in history will be considered. The instructor will be Prof. Simon. 
Prof. Gary Gutting will conduct a Seminar on Rellglous Bellef (PHIL 433). Some of the main contempor­ary approaches to the nature and basis of religious belief will be analyzed. Some of the views to be discussed are Plantinga on evil and the ontological argument, Freud's critique of religion and the existen­tial approach. 
Two additions have been made to the offerings in the Department of Psychology. Industrial Psychology [PSY 361) will examine personnel selection factors, industrial organ­ization and mamagement, the role of working conditions and consum­er psychology. The course, taught by Profs. D. Chris Anderson and W"dliam Dawson, requires PSY 111 or 211 and consent of the instruct­or. 
Psychology of omen/Men (SY 

362) will be taught by Prof. Carol Glass. The course will explore such topics as the concepts of "mascu­linity," "feminity," and "and· rogyny," the development of sex differences, the effects of institu­tions on sex roles and sexuality and aging. 
The Department of Speech and Drama has designed two new courses for fall semester. Argu­mentation and Persuasion (SPDRJBO) will examine the theory and practice of argumentative dis­course. SPDR 100 or 300 is requir­ed. Prof. Frank Zink will be the 
instructor. 
Prof. Miles Goiner will teach 'l'heatre IUid Dnma of Eastern &rope (SPDR 394). The course will survey the dramatic literature and production theories of Eastern Europe from Stanislavski and May akovski to Grotowski and Mrozeck. 
Americaa Phllesoplay (PHIL 317) The class is an elective for juniorswill examine the psychology and and seniors. 

epistemology of_ A!D~ prag-
Six new courses and two revised ones have been added to theSfUdenf lobby Department of Sociology and Anth­ropology. Culture and Environment
applications 

(ANTH 315) will survey man's 
Applications are available for relation to his environment, cover­positions with the student lobby. ing such topics as the ecological Anyone is eligible to participate. perspective in the study of cul­The deadline for turning in appli­tures, determinants affectings hu­cations is Monday, April25. They man adaptation, the significance of are available in the Student Go­cultural values for understanding vernment offices. manenvironment relations, and 


FREE 
Campus Tours By Helicopter 
For all students purchasing or possessing an Irish Wake Booklet Ticket between 
11 :30 am -1 :15 pm at Blue Field or 
Green Field Locations on Wednesday April 20 
HEUCOPrER RIDES EVERY 15 MINUTES FROM STEPAN CENTER (BLUE FIELD) AND GREEN FIELD (NEXT TO FACULTY CWBJ 
population dynamics and manen­introduction to the historical back­to t.he American religious exper­vironment imbalances. Prof. Leo ground ofthe rise of prophecy, the . ience. The instructor will be Prof. Despres wi11 be the instructor. theological significance of the Robert Taft. S.J. 
Prof. Donald Barrett will teach movement and an analysis of Prof. Eugene Gorski will teach Organization Jobs, Careers (SOC selected passages. Sb: In Search of God, (THEO 336). 102), a study of different occupa­Chrlstlu. Doctrine of God THEO an exploration of thclives of St. tional careers. The course will 232) will inquire in systematic Augustine. Blaise Pascal. William examine intensive sociological re­theology towards the formulation of Blake, Soren Kcirkcgaard. Leo search in the areas of professional an adequate conceptual statement Tolstoy and Deitrich Bonhoegger. career patterns: occupational of the Christian understanding of Science and Spiritual Direction choice, preparation, entry, upgrad­God. Special attention will be paid (THEO 466) will provide a hack­ing, mobility, career management, to the formulations of Cahrles ground in the philosophy and success/failure and retirement. Hartshorne and Thomas Aquinas. theology of science to enable 
Social Psychology (SOC 104) has Prof. Devenish will be the instruct­directors to deal with such consepts been changed from Social Psych­or. in this intellectual framework. Prof. ology (SOC 227). Prof. David Klein Fantasy, Narrative and Gospel Morton Kelsey will be the instruct­will introduce numerous processes (THEO 255) will study the narra­or. in social life, including authoritar­tive's role in the process of insight. Jewish Uturgy (THEO <WI) will ianism and obedience, attitudes Topics will include the genre and study the elements of traditional and their changes, conformity and truth of fairy tale, the "realistic" liturgics, focusing on the concep­non-conformity, cooperation, com­novel and stories about Jesus of tional patterns and not on historic petition, leadership, attraction and Nazareth. The instructor will be devleopment. The instructor will he love, aggression, altruism and Prof. Krieg. Prof. Primus. violence. Prof. John Gallen, S.J. will teach Religious Education I (THEO
Social Issues (SOC 114) will Meal of Jesus (THEO 262). Stu­471) will examine contemporary·study current problems using a dents will be asked to examine approaches to the religious educa­sociological approach. Topics con­their experiences with meals of tion of children, teenagers and sidered will range from sexual and friendship and love and relate such adults in the Catholic church. 
marital relations to business, ra­events to the contemporary Christ­Special attention will be devoted to 
cial, poverty and medical issues in ian meal of sharing with one the psychology of religious learning America. The instructors will be another and Jesus. and response. Prof. Lorrctta Jan­Profs. Joseph Scott and Wendy Christian Worships His God coski will be the instructor. Carlton. (THEO 267) will study the nature Black Theology, previously de­
Sociology of Sport (SOC 204) will and origins of Christian worship, scribed under the Department of emphasize the relationship be­analyzing the various historical Black Studies, will also be listed as tween sports and the political, forms it has assumed in several a new offering in the Theology economic and ideological realms of traditions. Reference will be made Department. our society. Sport's teis with edu­cation, social inequality. race and ..,..,...,_....,..J_u...n~•."o..r._.C..I....a...s...s""F-o...rlltjjm...,a""'l~...,.....,... women will be considered. 
Current Issues SOC246) is de­signed to permit flexibility and some depth in the subject of study. In specific semesters, the focus will 


''Lothlorien'' 
be on one topic, such as youth crises, juvenile delinquency, de­cline of religion and the school as a 
Friday, April 22 ACC Concourse
social system. 
Prof. Joseph Scott will teach Sociology of Business (SOC 310). 
9 -1am The course will survey the struc­ture of industry, occupations, in­come distribution and the interac­tion between business and society. Band -"CRASH" 
Statistics SOC 402) is the revised form of Statistics for Social Sden­tlsts SOC 393). Topics such as discrete probability, development 

Tickets on sale through 
binomial, point estimates, para­metric tests of hypothesis and correlation will be covered. The 

Thursday, April 21 2-4pm
course, taught by Prof. C. Lincoln 
Johnson, is strongly recommended for majors. Lafortune Ballroom 
Ten new courses have been added to the Department of The­ology offerings. Prof. Cullom will Ticket Price : $7 per couple teach Prophets (THEO 203), an ._""1~..,."'1-...-......~.,..,....__,.,_._._.t.--._.1\&_~.,.A 

Physics courses for non -science majors 
The two courses described below will be offered by the Department of Physics in the fall 1977 semester. They are particularly well suited for non-science majors though not restricted to them. 
PHYSICS 204 NUCLEAR ENERGY AND SOCIETY 2MW F ---3 credits-------------·--Professor V. P. Kenny 
PREREQUISITES: None 
A course developing the basic ideas of energy, power, 
and the important applications of modem nuclear 
science. The.advantages and disadvantages of nuclear 
fission and fusion energy devices are compared with 
solar energy, fossil fuel, and other energy alternatives. 
Nuclear weapons, their military applications, and the 
political problems involved in their control, will be 
discussed. The course is designed for the 
non-specialist. 
PHYSICS 210 DESCRIPTIVE ASTRONOMY lOMWF, 2MWF-----3 credits-------Rev. J.L Shilts 
PREREQUISITE: 
A one-year introductory science course including at least one semester of physical science. 
A description of the motions and structure of the earth moon, and planets. An exposition of the modem theories of solar and stellar structure, nebulae, and galaxies. An introduction to cosmology. The course includes elementary observational exercises. It is intended primarily for non-science majors . 

t..~·--~~~----~------------~


..................... 

-
Tuesday, April 19, 1977
the observer 



St. Mary's offers new fall course selections 
by Jean Powley St. Mary's Editor 

The following are a list of new courses available at St. Mary's for the fall semester. 
English Enlt. 203 -Literature and Science This course will explore the 
relationship between science and literature, particulary examining the history of science and how literature reflects scientific change, how it is influenced by such change 
· and how writers deal with the intellectual, philosophical, and moral demands of an accelerating scientific advancement. Social and economic issues such as technol­ogy. industry and labor will occa­sionally emerge as central concerns in the course. Enlt. 461 -Major Literary Figures -This course will examine major American writers who pro­duced their most significant work in the 1920's, a distinguished and special decade in American litera­ture. The era will be examined through five major writers --Cum­mings, Eliot, Faulkner, Fitzgerald and Hemingway. Classes will consist of minimal lecture and 
Wednesday, Apr. 20, in Washing­ton Hall. . 
The Department of English
Other talks, co-sponsored by the Theology Department and Office of 

presents the ninth annual
Advanced Studies, will be at 4:15 and 8:30p.m. Apr. 21 and at 12:15 
p.m. Apr. 22. The lecture series 

WARD-PHILLIPS LECTURES 
honor two long-time professors of ·< English at Notre Dame, Rev. Leo L. 

this year delivered by
Ward, C.S.C. and the late Charles Phillips, with talks by noted scho-ELIE WIESEL
Iars known primarily for critical works. Mellon Professor in the Humanities at Wiesel is a survivor of "the -Boston University; Author of Night, Dawn, Holocaust" and presently occupies A Beggar in Jerusalem, and several other the Andrew W. Mellon Chair in 
Humanities at Boston University. novels, collections of ioumalism, and works His novels include "Dawn," "The devoted to understanding Hasidic tradition. 
Accident," "The Town Beyond the SIDIC MASTERS
Wall," "The Gates of the Forest," FQ IIR HA ­::~eB~:~.~. in Jerusalem" and rn exploration Of the relationship between Born in 1928 in Romania, he was theolog)' and literature by investigating 
deported to Germany and the Hasidic wisdom, grandeur, laughter, and concentration camps with his melancholy as embodied in portraits of four family in 1944. He survived to tell souls on fire. 
maximum student discussion. ·History 
Hist. 417 -French in North America to 1763 -The earliest European contacts with the North Atlantk American coastline are noted and lead into the French penetration Q{the St. Lawrence and 
Mississippi basins. The French neglect and development of the area is studied from both the French and Canadian viewpoints. Emphasis is placed on governmen­tal patterns, life of the settlers, relationships with the Indians, and the great struggle with the English for the domination of North Ameri­ca. 
Humanistic Studies 

Hust. 321 -Medit~val Culture ­This experimental course will be thoroughly revised and offered as an elective to a few students. It will deal with intellectuaL artistic, poli­tical and social developments dur­ing the Middle Ages. 
,Philosophy 

Phil. 251 -Philosophy of Science -This course will examine contem­porary positions in th~ natural and social sciences. Beginning with a brief treatment of the development of modern science, the course will survey the problems which this 
Novelist, story-teller, and journalist Elie Wiesel 
tomorrow in Washington Hall. 


Ward-Phillips lectures start; Weisel speaks tomorrow 
Elie Wiesel, journalist, novelist figures which he has composed. and teller of stories central to the Two books of these portraits, traditions of Hassidic Judaism, will stories they told and stories told deliver the ninth annual Ward­about them, are printed under the Phillips Lectures of the Department titles of "Souls on Fire" and of English at Notre Dame. Rev. "Messengers of God." Wiesel's Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., Notre Dame lectures will be pub­president, will introduce the speak­lished at a later date by the Notre er at the first lecture at 8:30 p.m. Dame Press. 
development has raised for those who want to understand the nature and scope of human knowledge. Finally the course will concentrate on the problem of the relation between experience and theory. 
Phil. 254 -Alternate Realities and Possible Worlds -Kant brought a Copernican revolution to philosophy. He thought that experience must conform to out consciouMtess rather than the other way around. This course will begin with this supposition which will lead to explorations of alternated modes of perception, non-tradition­al ideas of causality, possible conceptions of the self or ego, and some novel constructions of reality. 
Phil. 301 -Plato and Aquinas ­This course is open to anyone interested in studying two of the most fundamental, interesting, and influential thinkers in human history. The course will deal only with Plato and Thomas Aquinas so that there will be an in depth dealing with each man's thought. A wide variety of their works will be read so that the student will see the range and implications of each man's thinking. 
Psychology 

Psych. 409A-The Psychology of Drinking and Problem Drinking · This course will examine three aspects of drinking and problem drinking: epidemiology. socio­cultural explanations and psycho­logical theories, as well as the different treatment strategies. In addition, several of the controver­sies in the field will be highlighted such as whether alcoholism is a useful theoretical construct, whe­ther there is any personality type associated with problem drinking and the role of situations in promoting drinking behavior. Pre­requisite: Psych. 323, 325 or Soc. 203.• 
Psych. 4098-Men, Women and 

Assertion -This course, open to 
sophomores and first semester 
juniors only, will function as a 
forum to explore the interrelated 
topics of men, women and asser­
tion. Students will learn the 
principles and procedures of asser­
tion training, as well as how to 
apply this knowledge to the devel­
opment of their own assertive 
behavior. It will be divided into 
three sections. The first section 
will be devoted to an introduction 
of assertion training and the devel­
opment of personal assertion skills. 
The second section will focus on 
factors that influence women's 
lives and the options available to 
women. The final section will focus 
on men's lives and an inegration of 
the three topics. (I hour credit) 
Religious Studies 
Rlst. 215 -The Church · A study 

of the present Christian community 
and of how it got to be the way it is, 
with some planning for the future. 
Theological and descriptive per­
spectives with strong emphasis on 
pesent crisis and creative projec­
tions for the 1990's. 
Rlst. 225 -Theolo_gy and the Gospel -An inquiry into the nature of God, the universe as creation, and the personal dimension of religion to see how these areas of theological concern have been transformed in the light of the event of Jesus. 

Rlst. 239 -Story and Theology ­This course is concerned with various forms of stories basic to the Catholic tradition, with special attention to the certain Biblical stories, autobiographies of signifi­cant Christian personalities, and relevant novels. Students write a series of autobiographical episodes as a way of discovering and expressing their own story. 
Rlst. 351 -Religion and Service Careers -This course, designed especially for nursing majors, will introduce ideas and teach skills which can enable students to understand and perform their ser­vice as Christian ministry. 
Rlst. 366 -Christianity and Women -The question of women is put in a theological perspective. What are the sources of certain typical -. .Litudes toward women in Christianity? What are the poten­tialities for liberation within that same tradition? Some autobio­graphical and biographical writings concerned with outstanding Chris­tian women who transcend their cultural bounds will be used. 
Rlst. 375 -Theology and Practice 
-A study of the theology of 
eucharistic worship geared to assist 
people participate in and plan 
significant and tasteful liturgies. It 
will provide solid theory and very 
practical experience for those who 
wish to share in liturgical planning 
now in their college life and in 
future parish work. 
Speech and Drama 
SpDr. 392 -Twentieth Century 
Drama -This course will deal with 
significant innovations in the deve­
lopment of the drama since 1900 as 
well as the dramatic presentation of 
contemporary social themes. Elec­
tive for juniors and seniors. 
SpDr. 394 -The Theatre and 

r--------------0·-----------------------,
SHARE THE RIDE WITH US ON WEEKENDS, HOLIDAYS, ANYTIME. 
When you want to take a break. why fly? Grey­hound'll save you more. No lie. So say hello to a good buy. Go Greyhound. You can leave when you like. Travel comfortably with friendly people. And arrive refreshed. and on time. Best of all. you'll save a good buck. So next time. say hello to a good buy. Go Greyhound. 
I 

I 
! 
1 
i 
1 

1 SAYHELLOTOAGOOD B~ 
GREYHOUND SERVICE 
TO  ONE­ ROUND­ YOU CAN  YOU CAN  
WAY  TRIP  LEAVE  ARRIVE  
CHICAGO  7.40  14.10  5:45pm  8:50pm  
CLEVELAND  20.05  38.10  4:00pm  10:15pm  
DETROIT  15.65  29.75  11 :35am  4:45pm  
MILWAUKEE  12.30  23.40  10:20am  1:15pm  
PITTSBURGH  29.85  56.65  7:15am  5:10pm  

Ask your agent about additional departures and return trips. 
GREYHOUND BUS LINES 

Drama of Eastern Europe -This course will survey the dramatic literature and production theories of Eastern Europe from Stanislav­ski and Mayakovski to Grotowski and Mrozeck. Elective for juniors and seniors. 
Jr. formal tix on sale today 

Tickets for Friday night's Junior Oass Formal will be on sale from 2 to 4 p.m. in the Lafortune Ball­room today through Thursday. Tickets are $7. 
The formal will be held in the ACC concourse from 9 p.m. to 1 
a.m. Friday. The theme· of ·the dance is "Lothlorien," J.R.R. Tol­kien's word for "dream-world." Music will be provided by "Crash," a Chicago band. 
Burtchaell to address Sigma XI 

Rev. James T. Burtchaell. C.S.C. 
provost of Notre Dame. will deliver 
the address at the 25th annual 
initiation and recognition ceremony 
of the campus chapter of Sigma Xi, 
the Scientific Research Society of 
North America, to be held at the 
Morris Inn Apr. 22. 

The public is invited to attend the lecture, which will begin at 8 
p.m. in the Blue and Gold Room. 

Sigma Xi was the first honorary society at Notre Dame dating back to 1948. The society's aim is to encourage original investigations in pure and applied science and to foster interdisciplinary cooperation and research. Election to Sigma Xi is considered a scientific distinc­tion. 
The Notre Dame chapter spon­sors the annual Rev. Philip S. Moore Lectureship on Science and Society. 
...... W~·-e~:-;~;~
~~~i~~i........~~·.ii\oi•r~~..,-~~.··~~e'!!":=~""""iii~~~~~m..... ..~~~~;~-:·:-:-!"~:iloiiii~,.~-~-~~·~ttl"'!'.a__l~l-rL~.~~~---~~-~~---:--~ 



___j 
----~---­


Beaux Arts Ball plans finalized 
Maureen Saj1Jel sculpture, paintin~ and graphic Senior Staff Reporter arts as well as architecture, but he Beaux Arts Ball tradition since then 
The Notre Dame architecture ·has been carried out almost exclu­department will be sponsoring a sively by students of architecture. Beaux Arts Masquerade Ball on The ball is open to all students, Saturday, Apr. 30 from 9 p.m. to not just those in architecture and 
3:30 a.m. in the Architecture the arts. Those attending are Building. encouraged to wear creative and The theme for this semester's unusual costumes based on the ball will be based on the children's Alice in Wonderland theme. 
· fantasy tale Alice in Wonderland Aron Neon Wilde, a local prog­by Lewis Carroll. Past Beaux Arts ressive rock band that has perfor­Balls, infamous for their bizarre med at past Beaux Arts Balls is costumes and unconventional deco-scheduled to perform, and refresh­rations, have also had themes ments will be served throughout dealing with fantasy and the imag-the evening. ination. The cost of the ball will be $2.50 The tradition of the Beaux Arts per person or $3.00 at the door. Ball began with a type of mardi Tickets are available in the Archi­gras celebration sponsored by the tecture Building, and will be sold in 
students of the Ecole des Beaux-the dining halls at both St. Mary's Arts (Academy of Fine Arts) in and Notre Dame on a date to be Paris. The original school offered ·announced. 


Change made in GRE test 
College seniors planning to take the Graduate Record Examinations (GRE) Aptitude Test next fall will see some changes in the exam. A new section designed to measure analytical skills will be added to the traditional areas that test verbal and quantitative skills. 
The change, the first since the current form of the Aptitude Test was introduced in the 1940's is based on an extensive reseasrch effort initiated by the Graduate Record Examinations Board that showed that analytical skills can be distinguished from verbal and quantitative skills and are related to academic success. 
Students, faculty members, and administrators from all over the country were consulted in the
various planning stages of the riiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiilllliiiii.iii.-&iiiii_;...____~.;;;,;..;.;.;.;;,;;;;,;;...______.,.. 
change in the exam. 
Educational Testing Service which administers the exam for the GRE Board, explains that the additional measure will enable students to demonstrate a wider array of academic talents when they apply for admission to gradu­ate schools. 
Janis Somerville, GRE program director at ETS, said, "The new measure will test a student's skills 
in a number of areas. Students will be able to show their ability to recognize logical relationships.draw conclusions from a complex series of statements, and deter­mine relationships between inde­pendent or interdependent cate­gories of groups." She explained that, like the traditional measures of the GRE, 
~~eq:=~~:. will use various kinds 
"Three types will be used in the 
analytical section: analysis of 
explanations, logical diagrams, and analytical reasoning questions, each designed to test a different aspect of analytical ability," she 
saitmervillealsoexplainedthatno formal training in logic or-methods ;t!~'!s!:~~ired to do well on 
quired and developed in virtually all fields of study," she explained. "And, like verbal and quantitative skills, analytical skills are develop­ed over a long period of time and are not believed to be improved to any sginificant degree by intensive study in a brief period of time." 
Somerville also noted that the 1977-1978 GRE Bulletin of lnforma­tion will describe the new measure and will include sample questions and explanations of the answers. The Bulletin is sent free to all students registering for the GRE. 
In addition, a Sample Aptitude Test containing the same number and types of questions as the actual exam cam be ordered at one dollar per copy. Both publications will be available on 1. 
This Week at 

THE NAZZ 
MON.I9-11 
Carl Casazza 
Tues. Wed• 
S d 


t~ve !PO reyAnne Cortesman 
_
9 11 


Brian Evans 
_
9 11
G H 
reg ayes 


ThUrS. 9:30-11 :30 Dave Shaheen Fri. 8:00 
---------------------------------------------.--------------------------~------~ 
Tuesday, April 19, 1977 the observer 7 
------~----~-------­



Patty Hearst pleads 'no contest' 
LOS ANGELES [API-Patricia Hearst, speaking in a whisper. pleaded no contest yesterday to charges of armed robbery and assualt with a deadly weapon. 
The judge accepted her plea and declared her guilty. 
Miss Hearst's attorney asked that she be sentenced as swiftly as possible and Superior Court Judge 
E. Talbot Callister said he would announce the penalty May 9. 
The newspaper heiress, already under a seven-year federal prison sentence, was subdued as she stood before the judge and said several times in a whisper: "Nolo contendere." 
The 23-year-old Miss Hearst. demurely attired in a lavender plaid jumper, came to court sur­rounded by the private guards who have protected her since her re­
Inner-city teacher to share experiences 
"Your 'stake' is your life and you get as much as you put out," says· Joseph Heffernan, a '76 Notre Dame graduate, about his year as a live-in volunteer with the Jesuit Volunteer Corps. 
Heffernan will be on campus Tuesday, Apr. 19, to talk to people about his year as a volunteer teaching science to inner-city child­ren at St. Adalbert's School in Cleveland, Ohio. He will be accompanied by Rev. Tom Shea, 
S.J., Director of the Jesuit Volun­teer Corps: Midwest. 
Heffernan and Shea will be at the Library lobby all day and will meet with interested students in the campus ministry offices in the basement of Badin Hall at seven 
p.m. Tuesday. 
Despite the new addition, the GRE will remain a three-hour test since the verbal and quantitative portions have been shortened and the time saved allocated to the new measure. 
''The same research effort that produced the new measure also yielded shorter versions of the verb al and quantitative sections that are comparable in reliability and use­fulness to the earlier and longer sections," explained Somerville. 
The GRE is taken each year by about 300,000 college students as part of the admissions process to graduate school. The exam is offered six times a years, while advanced tests in 20 subjects are offered five times a year through­out the nation. 
Matt Feeney Mike Richter Joe Murphy 
Rich Spangler 

Greg Mandolini 

"Some analytical skills are re
\.......,.....__.""" ..... --~ ...~~...~;_........_."',...,.,..,_.~~.,.._..... .-::~:.:~:.~~..~i:i~:.:::~~~;::::wi:i;W:W~~~~~~~~~~u 
Play It Again Sam

10: 30 

g.o.d. plus LITE SHOW


Sat. 8:00 

Play It Again Sam OMING SOON BENEF 
lease from prison on $4.25 million 
bail last November. 
Her parents. newspaper cxt.·c­
utive Randolph Hearst and his 
wife, Catherine. sat silently in the 
courtroom as their daughter stood 
before the judge. She was tlankcd 
by her attorneys. AI Johnson and 
Sydney lrmas. 
Prosecutors said later that Miss 
hearst's plea of "no contest" will 
include two attached charges of usc 
of a tirearm. The total possible 
sentence for the offenses is ten 
years to life in prison. 
The Los Angeles County District 
attorney's oftice maintains a policy 
of not plea bargaining for a specific 
sentence. thus Miss Hearst's pen­
alty will be determined by the 
judge who sentences her. 
Her actual sentencing could be delayed months while a probation . study is prepared. 
The case, which was scheduled 
for trial May 18, stems from a 
shooting and shoplifting incident at 
a suburban sporting goods store in 
1974. 
Miss Heart's abduction by the 
Symbionese Liberation Army on 
Feb. 4, 1974. was among the· most 
widely reported events of the 
decade. Her attorneys have said 
she can't get a fair trial because 
prospectivt.• jurors know too mud1 about the heiress' legal entanglt-· nlt.'nls. 
Deputy Dist. Atty. Sam Mayl'r­son. who took Miss Hearst's pit-a. explained to her that till' plea of no contest must bt.· trcalt.'d bv till' court as a plea of guilty .under California law. 
Thus. the judge !lt.-dan·tl. "The defendant is found guilty" ol robbery and assault charges. 
But a no contest plea would not be conslrut.·d as an admission of . guilt whi,·h nmld be used in an_v 
civil suit against Miss Ht·;~rsl. 

Pre-law Societv holds meeting 
The Pre-La" Soeit.'ly will hold 1ls annual Lawyers Night on Thurs­day, Apr. 21 in the lmmge of lht.• Memorial Library. 
The meeting will ft.-ature allor­neys Dave Keekly. Bill Stanley, 
1 Marcia Sowles and Jamt.·s Hall who will discuss and answer 4uestions on various aspects of lht.·ir l;~w practice. 
, The meeting will ht.·gin ;~t 7:!)(1 I p.m. Refreshments will be served following the meeting. All sin­
dents arc invited to attend. 

Cl~sified Ads 
NOTICES 
Check your portfolio now! N.D. Mock Stock Market is still here!! 10-3 Old Bus. Bldg. 
Need Typing? Executary, Inc. Professional Typing Service. 10 Typists · various typestyles. Term Papers: 85 cents a page. Resumes: $2.00 a page. Call 232-0898. 
Niles Auction. 802 Fort Street. 684-6954 or 684-4671 Auction every Friday at 7 :30. We buy and sell furniture, appliances, antiques, and misc. items daily 12:00 pm to 6pm. 
TYPING. Call Carolyn at 232-9061. 
Accurate, fast typing, Mrs. Donoho, 232-0746. Hours: Sam to 8pm. 
Dancin' Irish try out clinics start Sunday April 24th in LaFortune Ballroom at 1 pm. Open to NO junior, sophomore and freshmen women. 
FOR RENT 
Summer renters wanted, 3 bedroom house, furnished. Very reasonable. Close to campus. Call 283-3626. 
4 bedrooms, furnished apartment within walking distance of campus. Call William Hill 232-1724. Summer occupancy only. 
Two bedroom house to rent. Summer and or school year. 1012 Eddy Street. S120 mo. plus utilities. 
Call Oddies Harris at 232-8563. 
Wanted!!Summer renters. Five bedroom house. Excellent condition good location. Rent negotiable. Call 8436. 
Available for summer and or fall. Studio apt. close to campus. $90 per month . furnished. Call 287· 7739. 
2 excellent houses in fine neigh­borhoods. Each ideal for 4-6 students. Cost adjusted to number of students. $225-$300 plus utilities. 
Call Mr. Gatto at 234-6688. 
Rooms for rent this summer. Very reasonable, and just a few blocks from Notre Dame. Phone 277-3604. 
Lodge cabins on Lake Michigan for rent by days, week, month. Only 30 min. from campus. Gintaras Resort. 
15860 Lake Shore Road, Union Pier, Mich. 616-469-3298. 
5 bedroom house, real nice, large living room and kitchen; fully fur­nished, close to campus, has burglar alarm, call Charlie Moore, 232-7180. 
Charming rustic house to rent. June 1, 1977 until Jan. 1, 1978. Four bedrooms, furnished, air conditioner, piano, TV, fireplaces, ten minute drive north from N.D. Married or grad. students, $150 monthly plus utilities. Call 272-5435 between 4:30 pm and 8pm. 
LOST AND FOUND 
Found: set of kevs, 4th floor St. Ed's Hall weekend of April 1. Initials CHW. Call Tim at 8865. 
Lost: St. Mary's class ring at senior formal. Initials are "COB '79 BS". If found, call Colleen at 284-5720. 
Lost: black leather gloves near Haves-Healy. Call Debbie 7906. 
WANTED 

Experienced Bar Maid, excellent wages. hours flexible. 2622 S. U.S. 31, Telephone: 683-6644. 
FOR SALE 

73 Fiat 124 Spyder convertible low miles, sharp, $2500 or best offer. 234-5002 or 683 2090. 
PERSONALS 

What to do next year? Try JVC. Library and Campus Ministry West 
Badin. Tuesday, April 19th. 
Joe and Tom talk about alternative lifestyle and service. Library lobby . and Campus Ministry West. Badin, Tuesday April 19th. 
For 1977, why not try the worst. 
Otto for U.M.O.C. 
Vote for Alumni Hall's Favorite 
Dog: Otto for U.M.O.C. 
Ugly Man is coming. Save your pennies. 
Show someone you care --send An Tostal daisies for Gentle Thursday. 
Siesta Imports. onyx, glass and brass, bone, pottery, chess sets, bookends, jewelry, etc. Great graduation gifts. 449 Breen Phillips 
Feeling Depressed? N.D. · S.M.C. 
Hotline. 4-4311 open nights. 
All private 3 room furnished up­stairs apartment for married grad uate student. All utilities. Near memorial hospital. No rent in return for helping sister and brother (H.S. grad I to and from wheelchairs, etc. For more imformalion. please call: 232-9128. 
"0B" recommends "The Rocky 
Harrow Picture Show". 
GOD is appearing at nazz friday night. special guest stars: peter 
and paul and mary. 
Paul F. Madden, Irish Guard, may have a big nose but he is not hung 
like a horse. 
....you think Beppo or Otto is ugly. 
Take a look (a short one at that) at 
Dave McAlpine and you'll know he 
deserves UMOC. Vote McAlpine 
Ugly Man. 
KITEMAKER WANTED: APPLY 
804 GRACE. 
Party Tuesday night honoring the birthday of George "GuGu" Gulyas at the Sorin Sevin Castle located at 1034 N. Eddy St. (Corner house north of Nickies). Ten kegs $1.00 all you can drink. a reminder, Dean Roemer, the Ra's and Rector of Sorin are still not allowed "in or around" our house for the remain· der of their terms at N.D. 
Do Drop Inn 

Annie J. 
Now that you're 21 what's your 
excuse!!!Happy Birthday. J.D. 
Rabbit 
Still ambivalent... 
Lost: in women's lounge 051 floor Lafortune) small opal ring with 2 gold hearts on both sides. Please return if found. Call Joan anytime 6859. 

_....... _ 
-

the observer Tuesday, April19, 1977 




Field narrows to 'Thirsty Thirty-two' 
by Paul Stevenson Daddy'' himself, found more than tallies and Willard Browner added '"-11 
Sports Editor they could handle when they six for the winners. Randy Haefner"'I' battled LAW. Brian McAuliffe led bit 11 buckets for the losers. 
The competition began with 256 the winners to a 21-6 pounding over The Heartbreak Kids downed a teams vying for the coveted Book­the Ugandan president and his tough W.A.S.U. squad 21-16. The store Basketball title, and after a buddies. McAuliffe connected on winners were paced by Tom Spaeth week of action, the field has been five of seven scoring attempts. and Steve Orsini, who tallied s!x narrowed to the "Thirsty Thirty­Greg Marx hit five markers and and five points respectively. two." pulled down seven rebounds, while The "Thirsty Thirty-Two" will 
In yesterday's premier contest, Jeff Carpenter added four buckets try to advance their individual Dave Batton and his defending to the winners' total. Carp chalked teams tonight in the fourth rounc~ of champion squad, TILCS IV, had up five steals as his team ended tournament action. Some of the little difficulty disposing of the Old their battle with a 21 for 31 highly-ranked teams playing Timers, 21-13. Batton and team­shooting performance. This total tonight include: mate Bill Sheehan tallied seven boosts their field goal percentage 6 p.m.•; buckets apiece in the TILCS con­to 42 for 68 in their last two Law vs. I Phdta Thill (Bookstore
:-·~. 

quest. outings. Kenny Harris tallied three Courts) The six foot 6-9 Irish cage star buckets to lead the losers. 6:45p.m.: also garnered seven rebounds. Bruce Flowers hit. eight of ten TILCS IV vs. Dobie's Pinchers 
. ·;.-.I :· Tom Kirby had a good day from the attempts to lead the Butcher (Bookstore Courts) field, hitting on four of five Brothers to a 21-8 bombing of The Butcher Brothers vs. East Street attempts for the victors. Gilburt Sky Kings. Kevin Hart, Bill Band (Lyons Courts) Leoscher connected on four of five Seeger and Dave Huffman' each Average White Team vs. Ed shots from the floor to pace the Old chipped in 4 buckets for the Price and the Sloppy Seconds Timers. winners. Dave Donnelly connected (Stepan Courts) 
Ebony Magic, the tournament's on five of eight to pace The Sky Ebony Magic vs. Drawer number-two seeded team, relied on Kings. Droppers (Bookstore Courts) Toby Knight's perfect shooting and Average White Team used a The Quarters vs. The 300 Per­board domination to dump The balanced scoring attack to cent Oub (Stepan Courts) Great White Hope, 21-9. Knight slaughter The Big Pigs 21-6. Bill The time schedule for the semi­
was successful on all five of his Paterno and Mike Banks contri­finals and final game have been shots and hauled in six caroms. buted seven buckets apiece and announced by Tournament Direc­
Grid standout Luther Bradley Rusty Lisch added six to lead the tor, Tim Bourret. The Semi-final added five buckets while Dan Knott victors. games will be played at 5:30 and and Keith Tobias each hit on four of Duck Williams came out of 6:15 p.m. on Saturday, April 23, six. The losers were led by Steve retirement and reappeared on the with the winners of those games Ciccorelli who hit three markers. Bookstore Basketball scene after a meeting in the tournament finals 
Tom Sudkamp displayed near­year's absence to lead The on Sunday, April 23, with the perfect shooting in leading The Quarters to a controversial 24-22 winners of those games meeting in 
Chumpsto a 21-13 thrashing of The victory over Linda Lovelace and the the tour_nament finals on Sunday, Downtowners.. "Suds" connected Gang. Williams pumped in 12 April 24 at 3:15 p.m. on ten of 11 attempts, while teammates Bill Hanzlik and Larry Morris each chipped in four buc­kets. The Downtowners were paced by Mike Carney who sank four of 11 shots. 
*Observer 
At the Stepan Courts, Rick Connor connected on an by Paul Stevenson more optomistic outlook for the incredibleten of 12 shots to lead the Sports Editor Irish. Mo Fandsome Five to a 21-10 "We've reached a position annhilation of Claudine Lon get and where our younger people have had the Misfired Shots. Jeff Schlies­
The Fighting Irish track team a taste of college track which has man tallied four markers for the 



Sports
traveled to Charleston, II. last aided their rapid development,'' losers.
weekend to participate in the Head Coach Joe Piane commented. ldi Amin and the Nubian Con­
Eastern Illinois Invitational. The "If a yougster like Kenny Lych nection, complete with the "BigNotre Dame tracksters cisplayed 
can continue his performance
one of their best efforts of the through the end of the season, thenspring season, capturing two sec­we definitely have achieved theond, one third and one fourth place 
Irish nine seek consistency
goals we set out in the beginning offinish in the competition. 
the year."
The four mile quartet of Steve by Frank LaGrotta Freshman mounds man. Mark Dame nine find themselves faced
Piane will also be counting on the

Welch, Dennis VanderKraats, Joe Sports Writer Carney, endured ~e same hapless with five doubleheaders in a sU: day
performance of George Matteo and
Strohman and Pete Burger com­fielding in the second game as four span starting with a home double­
Perry Stow in the pole vault, Mike

bined for a time of 17:09. The The pitching and fielding were early errors gave lllinois State six header against Northwestern· tom­
Meyer and Tom Ferenc in the

shuttle hurdle team posted a mark there, but the lumber was lacking runs on only two hits in the first orrow at l :00 p.m.
weights and Chuck Wills in the
of :44.4 on the combined efforts of as the lrish nine dropped a twin-bill three innings. Jim Abbatiello, Bob From there the Irish take to the
hurdles.

Arnie Gough. Chuck Wills and Rick to Bowling Green last Friday at the Bader and Fiascki each belted in road to face Michigan in a twin-bill
The Irish performed extremely

Nugent, good for a second place Falcons home field. two runs for the lrisb. on Thursdav and Tri-State in a
well inthe Eastern Illinois com­
finish in the event. In the opener, Jim Sholl tossed However, seven runs off of four two-gamer O'n Saturday. Returning
petition, which boasted 14 chal­his fifth complete game of the Notre Dame relievers provided the home Sunday to face Butler at 1:00The Irish distance medley en­
lenging schools. Now the track­season, raising his innings-pitched Redbirds with more than enough to p.m., the Irish wind up their busytrants earned third place with a sters must prepare for the Ohio total to 33.3 on the year. However, seal the veridct and sweep the weekend on Monday with twotime of 10:09 by Kurt Spieler, Mike State Invitational in Columbus this 
a four-run third inning as well as a series. againSt Ball State in Muncie. 
· Sexton, Strohman and Kevin Ken­Saturday, which has a field or 25 
two-hit performance by Falcon Coach Tom Kelly will be trying to W"rth a rash of inconsistanciesny. Notre Dame claimed fourth competing schools. 
hurler Jeff Jones led to the Irish' shake the lrish out of their slump, plaguing Kelly's diamond men, theplace in the two-mile with a time of "We've got a lot of expec­
4-1 demise. w:hich has extended to seven Irish will be looking to find the
7:48 on the combined talent of tations concerning this meet, and In the nightcap, Joe Leahy defeats in their last eight outings, right combination of timely hitting,Dave Benkert, Dave Gutschen­with a little bit of luck, we should started the third game of his career as Notre Dame enters its busiest strong pitching and sound fieldingritter, John Quinn and Kenny. 
perform very well down at Colum­by serving a first-inning home run stretch of the season. The Notre this weekend.
Kenny Lych posted a 09:6 mark bus," Piane remarked. 
toFalcon Tom Owen. After jumping

in the 100-yard dash. This time "If we can get more out of the 
out to a 2-0 lead in the early

marks a personal best for the field men, then we should have a 
innings, Bowling Green displayed

freshman trackster and adds to a fine afternoon," be concluded. 
sharp base running and parlayed four stolen bases into three more runs, building their lead to S-0.

Golfers await road trip 
Mike Gallwoay's two-run single gave the lrisb their first tallies in 
The Notre Dame golf team will with a 1124 total for three rounds, the sixth inning. Rick Pullano's RBI be on the road this weeken<! to in the event played on the Buck­single in the seventh wrapped up compete in two Invitational events eyes's Scarlet Course. Freshman the scoring and the Falcons walked Saturday, the lrish will be in West John Lundgren led the lrisb with a away with a 6-3 win over Notre Lafayette, Indiana for the 36-hole 230 for the tournament on rounds Dame. Pullano finished the week­Purdue Invitational that will be of 76, 78 and 76. end with four hits to raise his contested on the Bohruakers's Tim Saurs fired a back nine 33 average to .319, second on the club South Course. Monday the lrish ontbe tourney's final day to post a to Pollock. will battle in the Mid-American 73, Notre Dame's lowest round The Notre Dame team that made Invitational to be played on the in the tournament. Saurs finished only one error at Bowling Green Hueston Woods Golf Club course with a total of 240 on the long returned to Kline Field:m Saturday, that is hosted by Miami of Ohio. (7,128 yards), 73.9 course-rated but apparently left their hot gloves 
Notre Dame finished 17th a year track. in Ohio as they committed nine 
-
ag.o at Purdue with a 779 total and Lundgren will lead the Irish into miscues en route to dropping a pair occupied the 14th position in the action this weekend with a stroke to Dlinois State 6-4 and 13-7. Mid-Americ;•n with a 36-hole total average of 76.7 for the season's Bob Hughes was nailed for four of 798. 81 rh tournaments will dozen ro,.nds. Tim Saurs is in round-trippers in the opener, but feature the top representatives second position with a 77.3 aver-two Frank Fiascke RBls tied the from the M= · -Americanconference -age. Coach Noel O'Sullivan will be game at 4-4 going into the fifth. and the Big Ten a~ well as the making one lineup change in However freshman Paul Flood lost Midwest's top independents. anticiaption of thi<; veekend's his mntrol on the mound, giving 
Last weekend, Notre Dame found competition as fre.shman Erir­the Redbirds two walks, a wild the going tough in the Kepler Bauwens from nearby Marian High pitch and a triple. That, 0:oupled Invitational, finishing 20th in a School in Mishawaka will be mak­with five lrish errors was all the 
field of 22 with a 54-hold score of ing his first varsity appearance, Redbirds needed to clinch the first Irish catcher Tim Pollock prevents an Illinois. Sta; run with this tlg 
1188. Ohio State was victorious, replacingsenior Bob Belmonte. game, 6-4. at the plate. [Photo by P~ul Clevenger] 
Dave Batton's jumping ability is one reason the TILCS are favored to capture the Bookstore crown. (Photo by Paul Clevenger] 
Irish tracksters prepare for Ohio State Invitational 





