., 
' 
\ 
' 


Duggan discusses SMC status, ND relationship 
'The social byBobBrlnk situation is good for us." Duggan cited the Ass't. Managing Editor 
schools close proximity to Notre Dame as mstrumental in its growth, and doubtedDr. John Duggan, president of St. 
that a similar result would have occured if Mary's College, gave a short, informal talk the school were located elsewhere. 
concerning the current status of St. Mary's . and its relationship with Notre Dame In regard to single-sex education in before a small crowd in the basement of general, Duggan noted two positive as­Fisher Hall last night. pects. First, women get a chance to run 
Opening with a brief account of the things. Secondly, there is not the problem history of the relationship between the two of women being put into a situation where schools, Duggaq said that the question of a they must be given specific considerations. merger arose in' the late sixties because of As an example of this, he observed that at the financial situation at St. Mary's. But St. Mary's they don't have to worry about the merger . fell through, he stated, the scheduling of practice for two basket­
primarily because of an ambiguity about ball teams, as they must at Notre Dame. what would happen to St. Mary's and its Another contributing factor in regard to campus. St. Mary's recent success, according to The period following the failure was Duggan, is that it is a relatively small 
"bleak," said Duggan, adding the few Catholic liberal arts college.people would have given the school any Duggan stated that St. Mary's is chance for survival. "But they just pulled currently in sound condition. He pointed to 
themselves up," he said. "And a lot of such things as increases in endowment, the things happened which helped St. Mary's new Angela Athletic Center, long-range to rise." plans for a new library, and the fact that One of the principal enrollment figures are right where they causes for the rise, ac­ought to be. 

Roemer outlines measures 
cording to Duggan, was He also believes the relationship with 
the decrease in single­Notre Dame to be "the best it' sever ben." 
sex institutions through­Indicati~ns of this. said Duggan, are the 
out the country. (There faculty, social events, and cross-enroll­
are 94 left today.) ment. 

for security enforcement .. 
by Marueen Sajbel who had "violated the rules fla-tion m my mmd that the Umvers1ty ''There were fewer left During the evening, Duggas also re­Senior Staff Reporter grandy" and that these students has to say that it is not socially and the ones left were sponded to various questions from the"who broke the rules will have to acceptable." 
the strongest. Further­students relating to some of St. Mary'sIn response to increased prob­face some sanction as a result of In discussing the situation at the more, the single-sex in­current problems and considerations.
lems with alcohol consumption their actions." The sanction, he Senior Bar before and after the stitution became popu­Principal among these were security,during home football game week­explained, would be in the form of ?.ames, Roe~er st~ted .that he gave lar again." As a result basketball tickets, the proposed newends James Roemer, dean of a fine or work assignment, in most some consideration mto actually of these two develop­library, and the St. Mary's Senior Bar. 
students, has outlined a plan to cases. shutting the place down until the ments, St. Mary's began Concerning the recent rape incident,enforce security measures at the Andrew McKim, director of sta-evening." The bar will not be to grow because those Duggan cited the urgent need for increased stadium and Senior Bar for the dium personel, explained that the closed, however, becaus~ Roemer students with an interest measures to prevent future attacks. HeSaturday Notre Dame-Air Force ushers were doing everything they sees the place as an important in single-sex schools had said that at St. Mary's they were increas­football game. Roemer stated that could to curb the drinking problem. alumni-student social center. "The fewer choices to pick ing foot patrols, adding more lights,there have been many problems "They are taught to be courteous, social interaction is essential," he from. planning to continue the shuttle bus, andthis year with intoxicated football but firm,'' he said. ''They should stated, but continued, ''if it gets to "St. Mary's gives inaugurating seminars on self-protection.
fans, the throwing of bottles and tell the drinkers to stop and take the point that our license is in students who want sin­Duggan was upset with the decreased cans in the stands, and an overflow their drinks from them." jeopardy, then we have to say 'hey, gle-sex education the allotment of basketball tickets made to St.
of people with alcoholic beverages "This has been one of the I'm sorry' and close the bar until 7 best of both worlds," Mary's this year. addinsz that he hadoutside of the Senior Bar. toughest years I've had," he or 8 at night." 
Duggan 
commented. tcondnued on page 91
In discussing the stadium drink­continued. "The problems we've Present measures for controling ing problem, Roemer outlined a had are mostly related to drinking. the problem will be limited to an plan to increase security measures Most of the injuries/' he added, inforced policy of keeping bever" at the gates and in the stands. "are also related to people drink-ages in the building or in the "We are going to be more vigilant ing, passing out, falling and hurt-outside fenced area. Anyone about things brought in," he ing themselves and others.'' drinking outside these areas, he stated. South Bend police officers The stadium staff includes 700 explained, would be subject to will now be dispersed at the gates, volunteer ushers, approximately 30 arrest, and the bar could lose its and no bottles, cans or receptacles, South Bend police officers, 40-50 license. except for thermoses, will be traffic officers stationed on the field James Dunne, manager of the allowed inside. Cans and bottles and 30 paramedics. Senior Bar, stated that there have can be "lethal weapons" if thrown, Roemer stated that problems been some problems at the bar, he stated. Also, the football ticket with drinking have increased with-and security had been called sever­will carry a more pronounced in the last few games. At the USC al times, but that there have been statement concerning the prohibi: game, he observed, there was more no arrests. He explained that it is, tion of alcohol and paper cups will of an interest in the game. at times, difficult to control the replace cans in the concession However, at the Navy and Georgia crowds when the capacity ofthe bar stands. Tech games he mentioned seeing is 1,000 and 60,000 people are in 
Roemer and stadium officials bottles, cans and a number of the stadium nearby. have encouraged ushers to be more students passing out, both male Roemer also expressed a concern alert in stopping drinking in the and female. "When a person sits over the plans for a senior death! stands and to identify those who there week after week," he con-march, saying that it was a "bad are drinking. Roemer mentioned tinued, "and sees that serious tradition.-to have mature adults that he had the names of several abuse of alcohol, there's no ques-organize a drinking escapade and 
ZOtVJ<eR. HARRIS IS A '!&TERAN CCJ/J.£6!3 STl//JeNT WITH H/5 CAR 70 7HE fii?Ol/NO. 7ELL M0 ZCWK£1<, tf!HAT5 711!3 SCENe LIKE 7lJOAY? liRE K!IJS STILL. 
· ''TURNING ON"ANO "7lJVIN6 
I 
7/IEY CERTAINLY !IRE, f?IJLAN~ ANO IN ~-6ROai!N6 NUMetRs! 
WHILE 7H& U5l3 OF "ACtO"ISaJ«/N; (JfJfEI?. S7liPLES S/JO{ A5 "5f?ASSH ANO ~~~~ HAV& RE615TCREO 
IMPRESsiV& GAINS I 

lead students on something called a 'death march' from bar to bar beginning in the mid afternoon is terrible. People are encouraged to get bombed by the end of the evening." Roemer stated, how­ever, that he could not ban the march because it was an "off-cam­
logan volunteers are collecting student football tickets thru Thurs. pus event that does not require the 
dinner. Tickets will be used by clients of logan. [Photo by Ron University's permission." 
Local abduction, rapeunrelated to SMC incident 
Michael lewis As of yesterday afternoon, police added that it is very early in theStaff Reporter were questioning the victim and investigation of this case. drawing sketches of the men from Refering to the rape on campusA sixteen year-old girl was her descriptions. last week, Chikan said, "We haveadbucted and raped last night in an Chikan said that last night's rape no concrete suspects at this time.''

incident that seems to have no was not related to the rap~-on He added that the victims wereconnection with the rape of two St. 
campus last week. "We see no being re-interviewed and that allMary's students last week. 
connection at this time. The des­local agencies were aiding in theDetective Kevin Chikan ofthe St. 
criptions · of the assailants and the search for the rapist.
Joseph's Co. Police Department vechicle are completely different," Security Director Arthur Pearssaid that the girl was abducted he said. said that he had not been informed around 9:30p.m. by two men near Sgt. William Wells of the South of the rape last night. He addedTaxton road, north of Roseland. 
Bend Police Dept. said that his ·that Notre Dame security wasShe was then taken by automobile agency was "Conferring with the patrolling the St. Mary's roadto MUtherenMichiganwhere one of .St. Joe Police on. possibilities ,and "every 25 or 30 minutes." He also the assailants raped her at knife­:suspects." ·He ·~xplained mal all noted that security personnel werepoint. Later the men released her !local agencies ''keep each other alternating with new shuttle bus 
at a point near where Slle was linfurmejl of what's goi,ng on/' but ·routes in pa~lling ~e:l~· · 
.·ooginally< abdu~.. ·' .... •'r•··' 1 (•'• '4, (':•). •(.t.• .). J l:• l . .;.. • (. n, i .· ··.··~·.t'l(l '-~-·i,(.(, ,\.~.·. .f, ....t.}:\' 
--~---­
.. 

the Obseryer Wednesday, November 16, 1977 
,..On Campus Today __ 
12:15 
pm seminar, "polyma virus-host cell interactions", by dr. ann roma, sponsored by the dept. of micro-bio rm. 278 galvin life-sci. ' 

12:15 
pm forum, "analysis of current university of notre dame du lac financial statements," by robert w. william­son, rm. 121 hayes-healy 


1 pm public mural painting, all invited, fieldhouse 
3 pm workshop, "skill identification" by leslie wilson and betsy twitchell, smc, student affairs conf. rm. 
3:30pm symposium, "relevance of philosophy to blacks," by prof. larry I. thomas, cultural arts center Ia fortune.
. 

3:30pm symposium, "turbulent structure modeling in heat transfer flow," by prof. barclay g. jones, sponsored by aero-space engr., rm. 303 engr. bldg. 
4 pm seminar, "semiconductor based photoelectrochem­ical cells," by dr. martin wrighton, sponsored by the rad. lab and chem. dept., conf. rm. rad. lab. 
4 pm lecture, "the anthropomorphic adventure," by stanley tigerman, sponsored by the arch. dept., arch. building. 
4:30pm colloquiam, "the fusion of light nuclear systems," by dr. Jorge del campo, sponsored by the physics dept. rm. 118 nieuwland hall. 
7 pm lecture, "women in latin america," by maria sequella, sponsored by lais, lib. aud. lounge. 
7, 9, film, "slaughterhouse five," sponsored by the am. 11 pm chem. asso., engr. aud., $1. 
7:30pm american scene, "images of women in art and literature: mother earthand the warrior maiden," by helen roberts, carroll hall, smc. 
8:15pm recital, student compositions featured, sponsored by the music dept., crowley recital hall. 
8 pm show, jim coyne traces the music and history of daryl hall and john oates, wsnd &40 am. 
9-11 pm nazz, "jazz in the nazz with the nd band II and the one o'clock nd jazz combo," basement of Iafortune. 
' 
midnight wsnd album hour presents genesis "seconds out;-, 

12:15 am  wsnd-fm nocturnal  nightflight,  nina  burnell  plays  
jazz  
thursday  
mornin11 6:30am  am this morning, murray, &40 am  with  mike  ridenour  and  cathy  


WEATHER 
Cloudy and breezy with a 50 percent chance of showers and possibly thun~erstorms today. Highs today in the low to mid 50s Decreasing cloudmess and cooler tonight. Lows in the low to mid 30s. Partly sunny and cool tomorrow with highs in the upper 40s. 
*The Observer 
Night Editor: Steve Odland Asst. Night Editor: Rosemary Mills Layout Staff: Bart Corsaro Editorial Layout: Judy Rupp­recht Features Layout: Drew Bauer Sports Layout: Paul Stevenson Typists: M. Rust, T. Meehan, 
J. Judd, T. Powanda EMT: K. Chiames, Kathy i\1ills and Steve Odland-thanks: Day Editor: Maribeth Moran Copy Reader: Mike Villani Ad Layout: Steve Bonomo Photographer: Ron Szot 
The Observer Is published Mon­day through Friday except durtng eX8m and vK.Itlon periods. Tile Observer 11 published by the students of Notre o.me and S.lnt Mery's College. Subsc:rlptlons may be purdlesed tor no per year IS 1 o per semester) from The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 4U56. Second clan post..• paid, Notre Dame, Indiana, 4U56. . The Observer Is a member of the AIIOCiated Press. All repro­dudlon rtelltl are reserved. 
Quickee to run as 'freebee' 

Digger e~ntertains Angela crowd 
by Molly Woulfe (ice water), Phelps praised the new After crossing that hurdle, gym, "a great facility for a school Phelps went on to declare his Richard "Digger" Phelps Notre your size,'' and explained he had personal ideas on coaching. "I Dame's: head basketball 'ccoa.ch nothing to do with the basketball teach my players to accept the fact joked, signed autographs ;md ticket cutback. they'll ·be athletes probably one­philosojphized to a crowd of over "Ticket forms were sent to Notre fifth of their lives--that they should 
150 l~st ni_g.ht in the Ang:ela • Dame students who grabbed do something worthwhile with the Athleti<: Faciltty. Topics of the them," he stated. "Mail was other four-fifths," he pointed out. hour-and-a-half talk ranged jfrom unbelievable--an explosion. What­"You should know what you're the recent furor of the tic:k.ets ever was leftover went on to a doing and have a direction. The 
alloted to SMC students to the public sale. I don't have all the only thing you've got to watch out problents women must deal with facts, but I figure that's what for is the direction you go." when entering male-dominated happened. I can understand your Phelps also stressed that ND 
business corporations. feelings.'' athletes have to meet academic "lfllose ten games this year you standards. "We have an adacemic 
Aftet' tipping back in his c:hair can buy all the tickets you want. commit ment and people have to and exjpressing disappointment in The problem will be solved," he live up to it," he stated. "We tell the liquid refreshment provided added while students roared. our people the rules before they get 
here. If they don't like them, they can leave.''

Ecumenical Institute issues 
Phelps next advised women stu­dents on how to succeed in the business world. "Corporations are


report outlining changes 
threatened by women because they're insecure with women andOrganizational changes and periodic residence at Tantur, a their own sexual hang-ups. But

increased financial developm1~nt more formal relationship than now there's many opportunities for youactivities are among plans noted in exists. 
out there now and you're the one toa five-year report just issued by the The report also emphasized that bJame if you don't make it. Sure,Ecumenical Institute for Advanced fund-raising must be vigorously you'll find chauvinists in the office, Theological Studies, Notre Dame's pursued if the Institute's annual but you'll beat them."

"think-tank" for theologians, lo­budget of about $200,000 is to be "Don't be insecure when you gocated at Tantur outside Jerusalem. met. In addition to increasing to that interview. Don't be insecure Since its opening in September, permanent endowment, which now when you get that job. Believe
1972, the Institute has bro111ght supplies about $40,000 annually, you're the best, do your best, andtogether 193 scholars from 38 and fees now paid by resident get it done," he added.
countries and 21 different religious scholars, the Institute has plans to Phelps then reminisced abouttraditions to do advanced theology seek foundation grants, _ pro­
last year's victory over San Fran­in an ecumenical and communal pose support of project re­cisco and told how he first becomeatmosphere. While it has no search, carry out solicitation of interested in Notre Dame whileformal curriculum and does not Institute alumni, and use income coaching in a small Catholic highoffer academic degrees or credits, from newly offered summer semi­school. The nuns there used tothe Institute organizes its academic nars. 

chant prayers to Our Lady toprogram around a theme--this year Pointing out that the Institute "protect and guide the Fightingit is "Prayer and the Mystery of has no debt on its buildings, which Irish ... and our parishioners." ThisSalvation" --and includes weekly won a prize for their architecture spirit prompted him to make in­

colloquia, semester seminars, a and ''has a record of sound quiries and he was accepted as theseries of public lectures, historilcal accomplishment... :'I theological basketball coach in the spring ofsite visits and publications. The investigation," the report reem­1971.
bulk of the time is set aside for phasizes its mission as "the con­A question-and-answer periodindividual research. crete and historical investigation of followed the talk. When asked howThe institute has been govemed the roots of our faith, done in a vital he deals with pressure, Phelpsby an Academic Council, composed community of shared life and replied, "Pressure is self-afflicted.
of distinguished Orthodox, Roman shared acts of worship and de­Music mellows me out, so I toneCatholic and Protestant scholars, votion." 
down that way. But once the game and its executive committee, but Dr. Leon Rosen of the National starts, I'm into the game."

formal title to its assets is prestmtly Institutes of Health Laboratory of Phelps was optimistic whenheld by Notre Dame, whose presi­Parasitic Diseases in Honolulu, will questioned whether he thought the dent, Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, deliver a lecture today on "Arbo­team would win the championshipc.s.c., spear!1eaded its establish­viruses and Disease in Pacific this Year. "You won't find me for ament at the request of Pope Paul Oceana." 
month. We're going to have oneVI. The Academic Council will The public is invited to attend big party," he predicted. 

probably become an advisory body, the lecture at 4:30 p.m. in the Phelps concluded his speechhowever, and a new board will .Galvin Life Science Center aud­with the advice "Don't be a trophy.
assume responsibility for Tantur, itorium. It is cosponsored by the Keep active. Keep moving." andaccording to the report, signed by Department of Biology and the departed with cheers to catch theHesburgh on behalf of the Council South Bend Center for Medical end of 'The Godfather.' 
and by the current rector, Dr. Education. 
Walter Harrelson of Vanderbilt 

University's School of Divinity. Th~ new board will have represen­tatives _from the Council, private foundattons, world business and industry and the churches and will serve as the Institute's policy:set­ting body. 
It is expected that this illlter­national board will, in time, ass­ume for,p:tal and legal responsibility for the Institute from Notre Dame. Other organizational changes pro­posed include establishment of a group of five or six persons as a Rectorate for Tantur, from wlilich could be drawn on a rotating basis the resident rector, with the others 
The Student Union Social serving as advisors. Also, Institute Commission announced yesterday leadership intends to identify a that the "Quickee" will be free this group of theological centers Friday, Nov. 18 for those who show throughout the world willing to a ticket to the "All-You-Can-Eat" sponsor junior scholars as well as wine and cheese party. Tickets can members of their senior faculty in be bought at the Student Union 
~ ........ • ''.. ...., ~ •~~o "·· ·~:~,. ... "<"'-.....~...··;..;·:..l·~·:....!··..:•c.:.·..!.'..'!.".:!.•.»•~·.!.·.!..·.!..'-"-'••!!.J···t.c•._,•.._.•.._·,.,_~·~··· .. '' 
,,. t ; ., .. 5{1 ·f ':"if,·:!,.., 
south of Angela. 


TACOS 
lWO BEEF TACOS & ONE SMALL ORIN K FOR$1 ONE WEEK ONLY ••. 'TILL NOV. 23 3700 UNCOLN WAY WEST (RT. 20) 


Jazz in the Nazz

tonight 9-11 
ND J.B. II 
1:00 o'clock ND jazz conmo 
Helen Wathen 
thursday 9-11 Ann Cordsman Matt Feeney 
Steve Fbdry 

Carl Casazza 
~ 

Ticket office for one dollar. The 



Have a FANTASTICK time

wine and cheese party will be held 
2 days 'till

at the First Unitarian Church, located on the corner of US 31 and 

after THE FANTASTICKS'

North Shore Drive, just two blocks 
ior Death MarcJ~
d 
at the 
Wme and Chetre Party Friday, November 18 

9pm -lam 

1st Unitarian Churdl 101 E. North Shore Drive 






~##' 
(oH U.S. 31) tickets on sale -S. U. ticket oHim for low, low prim of $1.00. Umited amount of tickets available! 

ion Sodal _Convrission. 
~----------------------------------------------------------------~--------------------------------------------------~-------------------------­
Wednesday, November 16, 1977 
the observer 
OBSERVER INSIGHT 

SLC: victim of the changing times? 
Jack Pizzolato Senior Staff Reporter 
On Oct. 21, the University's Board of Trustees accepted a proposal, submitted last spring by Student Body President Dave Ben­der, to abolish the Student Life Council (SLC). Bender's plan called for the replacement of the SLC with a Campus Life Council, a slightly larger, more narrowly focused body concerned primarily with hall life. 
The death of the SLC came, fittingly, on the eve of the anniver­sary of its first meeting in the fall of 1968. The original 24 man, tripar­tite council consisted of eight students, eight faculty members and eight administration represen­tatives. 
Sitting ex officio on the SLC were the president and vice-president of the student government, the vice­president of Student Affairs, the dean of students and the president and vice-president of the Faculty Senate. In addition, six members of each representative group were elected to the council for terms of one year. Students were selected from the north quad, south quad and off-campus. 
The Student Life Council arose out of a period of conflict and unrest. College campuses across the nation echoed student demands for more representation in univer­sity affairs. The SLC was Notre Dame's answer. 
"In general," commented Uni­versity President Fr. Theodore Hesburgh, "it was a time when tension existed between faculty, administrators, and students. The purpose of the Student Life Council was to achieve peace and under­standing in the community.'' Hes­burgh characterized the SLC as ''a safety valve that let off steam by allowing discussion of the prob­lems." 
Fr. Charles McCarragher, form­er vice-president of Student Affairs during the late 1960's and now Associate Pastor of Sacred Heart, remarked that "the SLC gave students a real voice-where they had none before-in the administra­tion of the university." 
The concept of a Student Life Council originated among student leaders and vocal faculty members such as former Provost, Fr. James 
T. Burtchaell. Student Body Pres­ident Richard Rosse proposed the idea to the University's Trustees in the spring of 1968. Rosse's sugges­tion was debated among high-level members of the administration until an Ad Hoc Committee of the Board of Trustees recommended it to be reviewed by the full board. The Board of Trustees strongly supported the SLC proposal and made it the major recommendation of a report issued in May of that year. 
Essentially the Student Life Council had legislative power in the area of student affairs .It could also make recommendations in other areas not under its jurisdiction. 
Only the university president had veto power over decisions made by the SLC. In addition, in the case of a veto, the Council had the option of referring the matter to the Board of Trustees. 
Philip Faccenda, general counsel for Notre Dame, was a member of the SLC for six years beginning in 1968. He was elected as an administration representative four consecutive years and served two years on the Council in his capacity as vice-president for Student Af­fairs until 1974. According to Faccenda, "the SLC could react to 
Please volunteer 
Members of the South Bend 
community have voiced a need for 
tutors. They are needed for 
elementary and high school 
students in all subject areas. 
Tutors would work on a one-to-one 
basis and in most cases no trans­
portation is required. 
Any interested students .e_lease 
problems as they developed on campus. Its decisions were held in high regard during the early years." 
The Student Life Council was the first legislative body in Notre Dame's history to have student representation. An Observer edi-
Trustees. In 1970, however, it produced a new judicial code. The SLC, in that same year, drew up a University policy on demonstra­tions, and established committees to study campus drug use and to' investigate the Placement Bureau. In early May of 1970, after U.S. 

Philip Faccenda, general counsel for Notre Dame, was instrumen­
tal in the formation of the SLC. tunal refered to it as an "instru-troops invaded Cambodia, the Stu­ment of hope," while Fr. McCar-dent Life Council organized a two ragher extolled its possibilities as day moratorium on the war. "We ''unlimited.'' produced a response that was stron-
There had been early criticism, ger than most colleges,'' Faccenda specifically by Rosse, of the fact said. that students only made up a third Yet, despite early successes, by of the body but this subsided after 1971 something had changed. The the SLC formally convened in late old questions of parietals, alcohol October of 1968. Within two weeks use and hall life still remained the SLC had passed a proposal to unresolved. The SLC had moved allow seniors to keep cars on on upgrading hall staffs but it had -dance by members became a major not touched the question of primary problem and the SLC was forced to concern to most: coeducation. adjourn several times for lack of a 
A proposal was submitted to cut quorum. SLC membership in half, suggest-Why did the SLC decline? Opi­~'that its large size cut down its nions vary. "For the first two or effectiveness. In April of 1971, The three years," Hesburgh noted, "it Observer concluded that the SLC was a most useful vehicle, but had gotten ''bogged down in the afterwards the initial concerns and quagmire of its own ineptitude and interest drifted away. It became an inability to go past the technicali-anachronism." ties and deal with the substance of Faccenda feels that when the the issues." "period of confrontation" during 
Reform of the SLC was a key the late '60's ended "it was no issue in 1971, ":hen the. body longer necessary to meet formally. adopted four standmg committees: The SLC had outlived its usefulness Steering, Hall Life, Planning and and it was hard for the Council to Rules. The Council lost an impor-attract interested members." tant showdown with the Board of McCarragher, however, observed Trustees over hall autonomy, tnat, "If the SLC had moved in a especially in the selection of pariet-thoughtful manner, it might have al hours. been a real arm of the university. 
In 1972, Student Body President They made some headway but Bob "King" Kersten suggested there was the problem of a chang­that the SLC be disbanded in favor ing constituency and lack of contin­of having students and faculty uity from year to year. There were members sit on the board of so many things they wanted to do," Trustees. He pushed his position . McCarragher continued, "but situ­by calling off SLC elections in May. ations arose and they got into some The SLC did convene in the fall but areas they just weren't competent it restricted its activities that year in." to several studies on black and On Oct. 13, 1977 after only three off-campus students. meetings, the SLC adjourned for 
The SLC in 1973 and 1974 began the last time. What began as a to stall. It devoted almost an entire most ambitious experiment, ended year to a discussion of human a victim of the changing times. sexuality only to see its sex rule revisions vetoed by Hesburgh. In April of 1975, the SLC reduced its membership to 15. 
During the 1976-77 school year, the Student Life Council passed no 

now serving
legislation. The Observer could observe that the "SLC has a reputation as a do-nothing body." 

DELiaous 
Debate developed over exactly what the functions of the Student 
CJDCKEN 
Life Council were. Some maintain ­ed that it was a legislative body DINNER while others insisted that its role was merely to discuss problems ::j:: for carryout or delivery to ;j;j
and propose recommendations to 
:jj~ your room piping hot, phone ::jj
the administration. The SLC was attacked as a "debating society" 
:m: 232-7919. t
and ridiculed for its apparent lack of leadership and initiative. Last January, the body changed its format and became a "forum" 



I ~~~~=:I 
for op&1l' discussion. Lax atten-~:j:: 4 P,m -1 weekends :~:~ 
:=t::~,:~:;:::::::::::;..;.:;:::::::::::::~:~:!:~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:~:;:::::~::::. 
couPON-----------------~ 

We Welcome All Students to the KNIGHTS! 

8c: 
(g 
z 



54533~~n'~ la!~J f 
Tues. and Wed-10:30,am-6:30 Thurs. and Fri.-8:30am_ 8:30 Sat. -8 :30 am-5:00 pm Closed Monday 
campus, and was making recom­mendations for improvements in the dining halls. 
The SLC at first moved swiftly. On Feb. 10, 1969, they were called by Hesburgh into emergency ses­sion after St. Joseph's County deputies raided a Pornography and 
-Z
Censorship Conference on campus and confiscated a pornographic ~ film. The raid resulted in the first :::> violent confrontation between No­tre Dame students and police, who 
8 used mace to break up an angry crowd. The SLC was called in to investigate. 
In 1969, the SLC ruled that each hall must draft a constitution, and it passed recommendations for parietal reform and the liberaliza­tion of drinking regulations which were later rejected by the Board of 


A~gi~~.~~~~~~~fJ57~~5~.PW5Ml) :.;•._...•,..,r."'-''""""'-'"'
~'llN'ft~·~if61DU~iid~~~'*-**"****"***...***-·.:-~-'-~~--~-....----~~• .,......_• .._~_..~_.,. 
********************************** 
Who's going to be ready 
.... 
You... .... 0.... 
:::T


that's who! 
CD 
Think Snow's Skiwear .... 
· insulated with Down, Polar ....-· Guard, & Fiber Fill II will keep you warm when the !!L Indiana winter gets rough. 
tn
Partcas from $40! So, get ready for the first snow at :::s 

0 
~ 
51400 us 31 North.. •'\) 
ph 272-5300 
BUYCILA CHRISTMAS 





CARDS 

Wednesday, November 16, 1977_
the observer
4 
HPC increases AnTostal budget 


by Bob V arettonl Senior Staff Reporter 
The Hall President's Council 
(HPC) began plans for An Tostal, 
the spring festival run by Notre 
Dame and St. Mary's students, at 
its meeting last night in Grace Hall. 
John Rooney, An Tostal chairman, 
estimated that the total budget for 
this year's festival will reach 
$10,000. 
Last year the HPC spent $4,600 on An Tostal. This September, Rooney noted, the Student Govern­ment Board of Commissioners al­lotted a $3,217 increase to the An Tostal budget. He added that this year, for the first time, the St. Mary's Student Government will contribute additional money, an amount still undetermined. 
"We wish we could have allotted them more money," said J.P. Russell, HPC chairman and mem­ber of the Board of Commissioners. "We feel that the event is that important. 
''This year we want to expand An Tostal and make it an entire community event," Rooney said. "We want to get all the people here to do something as a community for once, if only for a week." 
Rooney gave one idea about how he might go about expanding the festival. He suggested a carnival with "a ferris wheel, rides, the 
SENIORS 
Convert your experience in academia to work in Upper Volta, Chad, Mali, Belize, Togo, Rwanda, Bahrain, Ton­ga, and sixty other nations where people will benefit from your efforts in: education, social work, health, engineering, agriculture and others. Sign up today at the placement office for a talk with former Peace Corps Volunteers on Campus: November 
15-17. 

~ SENIOR F'F:I AIDW
• 

Jeny lewis Ridlard Lugar 
Steve Martin Ralph Nadar Carl Sagan 

Alan Alada 
O.J. Simpson Bill Bradley Broe2 Springsteen 
Arf Buchwald Sylvester Stallone Bill Crosby Ted Tumer Katherine Graham Kur1 Vonnegut 
Alex Haley 
John Wayne Bob Hope 

Henry Winlder 
whole bit" for the first three days of An Tostal week, the last week in April. 
...' 
·; 
..c 
u 
Rooney said he has alr,eady looked into this possibility. A carnival can be hired from the Chicago area, he noted, and money should be no problem. He added that the grounds between Grace Hall and the Memorial Library would be ideal for a carnival. 
"The' only queston is, does the campus want to do it, and put enough time into it to make it successful," Rooney said. 
Saying that An Tostal "has b1een kind of dormant the past couple of years," Rooney asked the HPC for more support. He said he wanted hall presidents actively involvt~d in the An Tostal Executive Committee instead of "just pushing brooms." 
Rooney noted that the Executive Committee does the actual plan­ning of An Tostal. That committee is being formed this week, he added, and he encouraged any 
Hunger Coalition plans fast 
Marlbeth Moran Staff Reporter 
On Nov. 17 the members of the ND-SMC World Hunger Coalition will join with the United Religious Community (URC) in a day of fasting. The purpose is to unite the community in a concerted effort to do something about the probJe,m of world hunger. By participating in the "Community Day of Fast," the two groups hope to make people aware of the position of starving peoples as well as to malk:4~ a material contribution to alleviate the problem. 
The United Religious Commun­ity of South Bend is an ecume,lllical organization made up of St. Joseph County churches who's purpose, according to Rev. Max Haydtm, is "to support and develop ecumeni-
Ancienrt tomb discovered 
cal relationships within the com­munity." Rev. Hayden is chairman of the planning committee that is co-ordinating the efforts of the URC, the ND-SMC World Hunger Coalition, and many other schools and community groups in organiz­ing the South Bend fast. 
Over a month ago the URC and the World Hunger Coalition started to work together on the project. Through a series of meetings, plans were formulated to deter­mine how the fast could best be observed. In the South Bend com­munity, church pledge cards were passed out and people were asked to either donate money, abstain from some food, or fast totally in observance of the day. 
The ND-SMC World Hunger Coalition is asking students to fast on Wednesday night at the regular 
interested student to volunteer to 
work on it. 
In other business, Tom Soma, student body vice president, said that the first Student Government and Student Union newsletter will be distributed this week. "This is in light of a campaign promise we made last year," Soma noted. "Tom Byrne is the editor, and he's done a really good job. From now on, you'll be getting a newsletter every three or four weeks." 
Ted Howard, publicity director for Mardi Gras, announced a new policy concerning raffle tickets, which will be handed out to students later this week. This year all students who sell their book of raffle tickets will have their name placed in a drawing, the winner to receive a 1977 Ford Pinto. 
"In the past," Howard noted, "we gave students who sold their fasters meal an~ to continue until Thursday night dinner. Jill Pascuz­zo, a student on the planning 
committee and secretary of the World Hunger Coalition, stressed the fasting aspect of the day as opposed to the previous practive of donating money to the Coalition. She also noted that there were going to be several church services at noon tomorrow throughout the community and encouraged stu­dents to attend one of these. Students could also attend the ecumenical service being held at the First Presbyterian Church, 383 
W. Colfax at 7:30 p.m. tomorrow. Besides the community services there will be two masses offered in the ND-SMC community, one in Walsh chapel and the other at St. Mary's in Holy Cross Hall. 
books a $2 rebate. But we found that some halls were keeping the money, and some people were not getting their rebates." 
A survey to determine student interest in a Prepaid Legal Service Program was distributed by Terry Johnson, a Notre Dame law stu­dent. About 200 Notre Dame students will be asked to fill out this survey before Thanksgiving break. 
Tom Gryp, Student Union direc­tor, said that the Klee Brothers, who have performed in the Keenan Review, will back up the comedy team of Cheech and Chong at their Dec. 3 Stepan Center appearance. Gryp also announced that actor William Windom will portray A­merican humorist James Thurb er in a. one-act play in Washington Hall on Jan. 24. 
American, British and German archaeologists from their respec­tive schools in Athens were sum­moned to the Virginia site to assist their Greek colleagues in examin­ing the treasures. 
One archaeologist later said that "only a member of royalty could have been buried in this manner," heightening speculation that it is Philip's tomb. 
Philip, who succeeded in uniting ancient Greece for a period, was born in 382 B.C. He was assassin­ated in 336 B.C. as he prepared his forces for battle against the Per­sians. 
Phik.lip was succeeded by his 20-year-old son Alexander, who later spread his fame throughout the Middle East and as far as India with his milatray conquests. 
Athens, Greece (AP) -An an­cient tomb discovered beneath a village street in northern Greece may be the burial site of King Philip II of Madecon, father of Alexander the Great, the Greek Archaeological Society annoJttced yesterday. 
The tomb was discovered 19 feet under a narrow street in the village of Virginia, 7.5 mils from the town of Varoia. 
Archaeologists led by Salonica University Professor Manolis An­dronkios have been excavating in the area for years uncovering some finds,. but they were not considered of great importance. 
But when arc:haelolgists bc:gan digging deeper, they struck: a marble door which later proved to be an entrance to a tomb. Removin~ the door, archaeologiists found a huge vault and a standing sarcophagus surrounded by finely engravd silver vases. A painting in almost-perfect condition depicting a hunt was found in one of the vault's walls. This indicated, said archaeologists, that the vault had apparently remained sealed for 2,300 years. • 
Inside the sarcophagus, archae­ologists reported finding a skeleton with a gold laurel wreath near the position of the head and with gold-plated bronze body armor and shield. 
In addition, a solid gold chest weighing about 11 pounds was found. The presence of the treasures indicated the tomb could be King Philip's, who was believed to have been buried in the Virginia area. 
Wednesday, November 16, 1977 
the observer 

1978 Mardi Gras features raffle, booths 
Drawmgs for both cars will be held carnival. "This should be moreMarian Ulicny on Saturday, Feb 11, the final night than enough to offset expenses, heSenior Staff Reporter 
1
of Mardi Gras. noted. 
"We decided on this drawing Mardi Gras, ND-SMC's annual instead of the two dollar rebates for second semester carnival will run 
Mardi Gras Raffle books will be each book sold that we gave last from Feb. 3-11 this year. Las distributed by residence halls sec­year to put more individual com­Vegas-style games of chance and tion leaders this week, according to petition into Mardi Gras instead of entertainment are provided in Tim Malloy, Mardi Gras coor­just hall fund raising," Dan addition to the car raffle whose dinator. This year's prize is a 1978 Haugh, Mardi Gras chairman, proceeds go to Notre Dame Oldsmobile Cutlass Supreme. explained, adding," A lot of halls Charities. "Last year, we raised 
Each book contains ten one­never gave the rebates. In this about $25,000 with the raffle. This dollar tickets, and students may way, we tan also eliminate the year, we expect to do much better. sell them until the beginning of $1 ,000 cost of the rebates and put it We can achieve this if we let more Feb. when all money will be back into the prize of the car." people know about it earlier with collected. "Our goal this year is for "Hall fund-raising competition improved publicity," Malloy each student to sell at least one will focus on the student ticket stressed. "We're also really trying book," Malloy stated. Stu­sellers:' Haugh continued. The to let the ND-SMC community dents who sell ll complete book will three halls with the highest per­know what Notre Dame Charities receive a free admission pass to centage of the residents selling are all about," he added. Mardi Gras for its 9-day duration. complete books witll win $100, $50, Approximately-80 service organ­For each book sold, they will also and $25, respectively. In addition, izations make up Notre Dame earn a chance in the sellers' halls will keep fifteen percent of Charities, including such campus drawing for a 1978 Ford Pinto. their booths' intake during the groups as the Neighborhood Study 
SG commissioner's position still undefined, unstructured 
Cultural Arts Festival. Student comes up, but until there's more
by Rosemary Mills Senior Staff Reporter Government's goal is to increase time, you won't get response. I the festival's appeal to the entire don't think people's awareness is Student Government personnel student body. "It's a good way to that high." break down some walls," Bender Bender plans to meet with Hardy 
define the unstructured position of and discuss the role of the commis­
social justice and interracial affairs stated. 
commissioner in different ways. Hardy's other projects this year sioner. "Her job should really be Dave Bender, student body pres­included organizing the Neighbor­two jobs,'' he commented, "but ident, currently sees the commis­hood Roots program and a forum because it was a new position we on South African awareness. only appointed one person.'' Bend­
sioner involved in interracial affairs 
because "that's really been on ''We felt that there had to be er mentioned the possibility of a people's minds." Valerie Hardy, some work on campus before we more structured role. He suggested who currently holds the position, spread outside the University," the possibility of additional orienta­originally stated, "I find myself Bender said, "especially after the tion for minority students because doing a lot of pithy things, like disturbance after the dance last "it's a transition." 
making signs. But I don't think year." Bender was referring to Hardy feels the position is not as anyone else would do them if I several incidents of violence which organized as it should be. "I'm didn't." Later, Hardy said, "I do occurred when some people were very unorganized and very busy 
refused admittance to a dance in with personal business," she said.
whatever I feel like doing." According to Bender, Hardy is LaFortune sponsored by the Black "I feel like the only reason I'm 
chiefly concerned with the Black Cultural Arts Commission last doing these things is because year. Next semester Bender plans someone has to." to work on several areas of legisla­In addition to her work on the tion. He cited Right-to-Life, rights Black Cultural Arts Festival, Hardy of the elderly, and treatment for is planning a University boycott of 
the mentally handicapped as speci­Nestle products. She summed up fic issues. her activities with, "I'm working 
The role of the commissioner in with a lot of committees, but in a these areas is still undefined. "It very unorganized way." all depends on Val's (Hardy's) Hardy did not know about Bend­progress on campus," Bender stat­er's proposed meeting to discuss ed, "and if she feels more work is future plans for social justice. "I 
needed here." Commenting on haven't talked to Dave (Bender) in 
who would handle a project similar three weeks,'' she stated. She to the Logan Center problem, added, "We definitely need more Bender said, "If we're committed than one person." to something like Logan, then I Later Hardy commented, "Stu­should do it because I'm in a better dent Government has a committ­
position. If a really big issue comes ment to social justice in all areas.'' up, then we'll get people who are She sees her position as secondary interested to help out." because it is not structured at all. 
Both <turing and after the 1977 Hardy admitted it should be more student body elections, Hardy structured in future years. stressed awarenenss. One idea for "Right now I do what I want to increasing political and social a­do when I have time to do it," 
wareness was to stage forums. Hardy stated. She added, choosing 
Bender commented that timing priorities is a highly personal is an important factor with success­process. "Where I see the greatest ful forums. He stated, ''Now would contradictions in what the Univer­
be a terrible time to have a forum sity says and what it does is where I because people don't have time. act. I'm only one person and there You can't wait until a real big issue are tons of things going on." 

Tired Of Being Just Another Head 
. 
In The Crowd? 






~ ahe 
WinOjammer 
1637 LWW 232-6622 Appointment only 

Help Program and CILA. Local day-care centers such as the Little Flower Montessori program and Sr. Marita's Primary Dayschool receive Mardi Gras funds. In addition, money is given to such international groups as the Holy Cross Foreign Mission Society. 
This year's Mardi Gras theme is "Expo ND." Stepan Center will be divided into three villages--corp­orate, entertainment, and inter­national--to hopefully bring about the effect planned by the World's Fair committee in New York in 1965,"Haugh explained. 
Wheel of fortune and dice games will be added to the usual poker and blackjack. "We'd also like to set up booths like real carnival side-shows with stuffed animals and T shirts. If it's not strictly gambling, people won't get bored, and they'll come back moreoften,' Haugh stated. 
Hall committees will begin booth construction on Jan.21. "This is only three days after classes start next semester, so there won't be a lot of organization time before that,'' Haugh continued , ''we had to schedule it early because we had a conflict in time with the Soph­omore Literary Festival." 
Every hall has submitted its booth theme, and several have completed their final floor plans, according to Haugh. The inter­
national village will consist of: Holy Cross-Farley's swiss cuckoo clock, Dillon's castle, St. Ed's· Breen-Phillips' Tibetan monastery, Alumni-Regina's windmill, and Zahm-McCandless' Eiffel Tower. The entertainment village will include:Cavanaugh-Lyons' Tunnel of T,ove, Morrisey-Holy Cross' (. SMC) Roller coaster, and/ Fisher­Augusta's Ferris wheel. The .corporate village will hold: Pang­born's 'Pnisphere , Grace-LeMans' Kodak ~amera, Howard-Badin's tension structure, Stanford-Lewis' MGM studio, Sorin-Walsh's six­pack of beer, Keenan's Kehogg's display, and Flanner's geodesic dome. The ND-SMC junior class has tentatively planned an IBM booth. The Neighborhood Study Help Program and the SMC senior class will build booths, but have not yet decided on final designs. ' "We're trying to emphasize on social aspect of Mardi Gras this year,"Haugh stated. "1 think it's The social event on campus second semester, other than An Tostal. It's the longest running, consisting of nine days plus construction which is the best time for the people involved in it," said Haugh. "Well over one qu~rter of the people on campus will be involved in Mardi Gras, either working on it, or just going to the events," he estimated. 

Pabst 24 cans *4.99 ----Liquor Specials,--­Crown Russe Vodka 75 ltr $6.99 Barclay's Gin 5ths $3.59 Castillo Rum qt. $4.39 Jim Beam 1.75 ltr. $8.99 7 Crown qts. $5.69 Cutty Sark 5th $6.99 
Lowest Beer Prices In Town! 
Spedal Uquor Discounts to ND -SMC students rs -288-9731 
---------~----------­

f~5;t:i..fbe 
..... :.:.i.·.. ,,...·••··.•.. ;·.··.••·••·• •• : ····.··•• .I
-~::::.:.: ~ 
··::_._:.::..·.::,.::.<······· 
I feel it is about time I official comment on behalf. of' 
·student gQVCl'Dntent at St, Mary's, concerning our coverage in 'l'he Obeerver. Since I was a reporter for 'l1ae Obaerver for two ·year$ before I took on the duties of student body president, (se(UU'a­tiotl of press-government), ;{·.bow aU too well many of the problems that face a newspaper reporter in c:overing stories. It is for that . reason alone that I am as tolerant of some of the mistakes thft have been made in St. Mary's coverage. With regard to SMC editor Jean Powley's comment that "We are only human, only stujJents trying to oo the best possible job"; well Jean, no one is asking you to be "bionic.''. I am a full time student also, but I never let it become an excuse for doing a poor job in student government and vice• · versa. We accept the jobs we have 
... Side Two 
We feel it is about time we make an official comment on behalf of The Observer staff concerning our coverage of student government at St. Mary's. Since we have witnessed the annual conflict for three years before taking on the duties of running the paper, we know all too well many of the problems that SM C has faced in getting equal coverage. n is for this reason along that we are so tolerant of some of the eroneous charges that have been made by SMC student government. 
With regard to SBP Mary Rukavina's comment that "I am a full time student also, but I never let it become an excuse for doing a poor j>b in student government and vice-versa": Well, Mary, no one up here is asking you to excuse anything. We accepted the j>bs we have and we take full responsibility for them. We simply asked that you and the other members of student government do your part -nothing more than the public relations work expected of any organization -to see that our St. Mary's editor is kept abreast of student government news. 
We were also amazed at your failure to understand that you (St. Mary's) aren't as big a school as Notre Dame; thus, you can't realistically expect as much (volume) coverage as Notre Dame. C'mon! You can expect and demand as much coverage as is warranted to make the news about St. Mary's available to the St. Mary's com­munity. To do less on our part would be falling short of the standards which we set for ourselves and the rest of The Observer staff. We will do our best to see that the campuses are covered equitably, but don't expect Peoria to furnish as many inches of print as Chicago. 
In conjunction with this, we must admit to past faults in our relationship with St. Mary's. We have not addressed our staff enough on the importance of including St. Mary's in stories that are applicable to both campuses. In addition, we have been 
DOONESBURY 
lax in covering St. Mary's sports. 
Without this issue being blown out of proportion any more than it already is, we simply pledge that the following proce­dures will be followed in publicizing St. Mary's events: 
1. 
As announced by SMC editor Jean Powley last week, the d.ay editor will read the list of stories to her everyday. H a story is of mutual interest to both schools, she· will give the day editor the names of appropriate St. Mary's people to contact. 

2. 
Photographs will continue to accom­pany St. Mary's stories when meritted by the importance and nature of the story, subject (as all photos) to the discretion of the night editor and space limitations. 


We request 1. that members of SMC student government call our St. Mary's editor to give her information on any news items and be available for comment to our reporters, and 2. that St. Mary's students show a greater interest in covering St. Mary's news and sports. 
We assume now that we have our differences out in the open, we can both put them behind us and get down to the task at hand: serving the students of these two campuses. 
Finally, we take the opportunity here of publicly thanking Jean Powley and her staff, who have worked so hard all year to provide St. Mary's coverage. 
* * * 
The editorial printed above was not written to ridicule St. Mary's Student Body President Mary Rukavina or dismiss the latest in a long history of conflicts between The Observer and SMC student govern­ment. By duplicating the style of Ruka­vina's column, we hoped to demonstrate that, with a few changes, a legitimate case can be argued either way. Both sides have now had a chance to present their complaints and apologies, and we hope we have each learned to better appreciate the other's position. 
*The Observer 
an independl'nt sludl'nl newspaper Sl'rving notre ddml' dnd st. mary'., 
The Observer is published by students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College It does not necessarily reflect the policies of either institution The news is reported as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions and letters are the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and letters are encouraged to promote the free expression of varying opinions on campus. 
EDITORIAL BOARD 
Marti Hogan Editor-in-Chief Martha Fanning Managing Editor Bob Brink Asst Managing Ed. Kathy Mills Executive Editor Maureen Flynn Editorial Editor Barb Breitenstein Exec. News Editor jean Powlev St. Mary's Editor Katie Kerwin News Editor Barb Langhenry News Editor Paul Stevenson Sports Editor Pat Cole Special Projects Ed. Dav1d O'Keefe Features Editor . 
Wednesday, November 16, 1977 


~P.O. BOX Q~ 
May WE leave the Architecture Building unpainted?
Consider this 
in all due respect, michael v. hinken jr. 
Dear Editor: While the talk goes on about 
p.s.
spending $100,000 in renovation, after spending $200,000 yet the 
(my off-campus addr~ss isstudent center is no better than in 709 south 32nd 1955. 
SOUTH BEND, indiana)
Why not talk common sense this time and let everyone enjoy the spending by putting in an elevator Editor's Note: Newspapers are so the handicapped as well as the 
available at The Observer office if many freight packages can be 
they can't be found in the dining handled properly. halls, LaFortune, the bus depot, A special parking spot has been 
the ACC, the Morris Inn, the made in back of The Huddle for the 
Memorial Library, O'Shaughnessy, handicapped but then they cannot 
the post office, WNDU-TV, the ROTC building, Moreau seminary, 
come into the LaFortune Student Center. 
the east gate, the west gate, the faculty club, Madeleva, or LeMans. 
Bro. Francis J. Gorch,CSC LaFortune Manager CeU Popovich 

Social A vital part injustice 
Dear Editor:

of ND 
I would like to comment on the remarks made by Kathleen Rice, Dear Editor: St. Mary's Dean of Students, in 
The Observer article about the rape people speak of a Notre Dame of two St. Mary's girls. Ms. Rice Community stated: "They were walking down 
how about us? 
the lane toward Notre Dame which we've been telling people not to we may live in South Bend 
do". The clear message is that the but we still go to school here girls should not have been walking on that road, and if they had been 
and how about an extra observer "smart" they would have waited 
(if?) i am lucky, i have a bicycle, for the shuttle bus, and the further it takes me at most fifteen minutes implication is that women who walk to find one about at night, who frequent(hard of hearing by word of mouth) certain places at certain times, etc., are, in effect, "asking for it". The is that the only thing we miss? advice given? Women must play it safe, be cautious arid remember that they cannot be as free in their 
by the way ... movements as men. 
We women reject this type of there is a bottle(s) of champagne admonition. The solution to the (pink) rape problem is not for us to 
ready upon completion of our new become timid creatures whose administration building every movement is directed by fear. The solution is not within
by Garry Trudeau 
changing the actions of women... it 




SunPeople 
EdHDr'l Ntbl: l'laplt If 1111 Sull, I Uniqlll Juz Tlllltlr llplrl-. prlllli-Sltunlly. Nov0 19 It 11::11 p.m. It the-Cllllury Ctnllr. Tlcbtl1.-. $3.111. 
SCENARIO SKETCH IN THE BEGINNING IS ENERGY SPIRAliNG INWARD/ SEEKING MATIER. involution. 
THE PULSE OF NEW liFE/ FORMS SPIRAL OUTWARD SEEKING THEN TO BECOME ONE WITH SPIRIT. EVOLUTION. (EMERGE THE DEMON WHO UNLEASHES HIS POWER) THE DANCE OF liFE ABSORBED BY NEGATIVE ENERGY FREAK OUT. DARKNESS. 
ZOOM IN ON KITO WHO HAS ESCAPED THIS MADNESS AND DESPAIRS. HE ENCOUNTERS THE OLD WANDERING OJIMA WHO SEEKS TO RETURN TO THE VILLAGE AND RESTORE liFE TO ITS INHABITANTS. 
SONG OF LONGING TO RETURN TO THE SOURCE: BLUE AND GFiEEN/ THE WATER/THE WORLD OF DREAMS. (INTO THE VILLAGE) 
THE WAY OF LIFE BECOMES AS A WAY OF DEATH THE FORCE OF DOMINATION ALL PERVASIVE 
OJIMA THEN INITIATES THE RITE OF EXORCISM/CASTING OUT THE DEMON (MAMMON) TO OPEN THE HEART TO FEEliNG TO FREE THE MIND TO CONTEMPLATE AND THE FLOWER BLOOMS TO RECEIVE liGHT/REVELATION OUT OF WHICH COMES THE SEED OF NEW liFE AND STRENGTH MIGHTY MIGHTY PEOPLE OF THE SUN 
MUSIC PROVIDED BY CITIZENS BAND DRAMATIC SEQUENCES WRITIEN AND DIRECTED BY CARL KELLY. LYRICS TO SONGS BY DOUG CARN AND MAURICE WHITE PROVIDED INSPIRATION FOR THIS PRODUCTION. lenny. 
Senior Class Fellow Profiles
Alan Aida: Alan Aida is an actor who has performed in many Broadway shows such as "The Owl and the Pussy­cat", and "The Apple Tree". He stars in the television series M.A.S.H. and re­ceived an Emmy award for best actor in a comedy series. He created the televison series "We'll Get By" in 1975. Aida is a former recipient of the Theatre World Award for his role in the Broadway show "Fair Game For Lovers". 
BID Bradley: Bill Bradley led the New York Knicks to two basketball Championships while he was a profe~sional basketball star. 
He graduated from Princeton in 1964 and was a Rhodes Scholar. He is now an active politician in New Jersey and worked in the New Jersey Primary. He recently wrote a book called Ufe On the Run which is about his career in basketball and his political persuasions. 
Art Buchwald: Born Nov. 20, 1925, Art Buchwald has achieved fame both as a columnist and an author. He writes for the Los Angeles Times and his columns are syndicated in newspapers across the country. He has written over 20 books, most of which deal with government operations and current events. 
BID Cosby: Bill Cosby is an· actor, entertainer and a recording artist. He began his career in nightclub entertain­ment and later moved on to television and film. In 1965 he became nationally famous for his role in the television series "I Spy." 
He has also appeared in "The Electric Company,'' and had his own series ''The Bill Cosby Show.'' Cosby has received 4 Emmy awards and 6 Grarnmy awards thus far in his career. 
Kadlertne Gnham: Katherine Graham is President of The Washington Post. She graduated from Vassar College and the University of Chicago. She was a member of the advisory committee of Institutional Politics and was a John Fitzgerald scholar. She is a trustee on the board at George Washington Universtiy, University of Chi· cago, and Federal City Council. She is also a member of the Board of Directors of Harvard University, Bowaters Mersey Paper Company, Allied Chmeical Com­pany, and Newspaper Advisory Bureau Inc. 
Alex Haley: Alex Haley is a novelist who taught himself to write during his 20 year career in the Coast Guard. He retired from this service in 1957 as the Coast Guard's first Chief Journalist. He then began his career as a magazine writer. Since that time, Haley has moved into writing books. 
His  two  most  famous  works  are  ''The  
Autobiography  of  Malcolm  X,"  and  
"Roots."  

Bob Hope: Bob Hope began his career in vaudeville. He has since appeared on stage, screen, radio and television in addition to authoring several books. Hope annually entertained the armed forces overseas from 1945 until1971. He was also the recipient of the Navy's highest civilian honor, the Distinguished Public Service Award for. "conspicuous generosity" in entertaining American servicemen. In 1968 Hope received the Variety Clubs' International Humanitarian Award and was honored for his work with the blind. In addition to this, Hope was once named "Comedian of the Century" by a group of college entertainment chairmen. 
Hubert Humphrey: A former Vice­President of the United States, Hubert Humphrey's political involvement is great. He now serves as a US Senator from the state of Minnesota. In the past, Humphrey has served as the Mayor of Minneapolis, and a state manager for the Roosevelt­Truman campaign in 1944. After being named the Democratic nominee for Presi­dent in 1968, Humphrey went on to teach social scienc.es at the Univesity of Minne­sota from 1969-1970. Humphrey has also written several books which include Ameri· ca and the Now Gemeratlon, and Young America in the Now World. 
Barbara Jordan: Barbara Jordan is a congresswoman from the 18th district of Texas. Born in 1936, Jordan graduated from the Boston Univesity Law School in 1959. She has received various awards including Woman of the Year from the Labor and Management Relations Commit­tee and also the Urban Affairs Study Committee. 
Jerry Lewis: A comedian, actor, producer, and director, Jerry Lewis has been in the entertainment business since the early 1940's. Some of his famous ftlms include "Rockabye Baby," "Geisha Boy," "Cin­derfella," and "Three on a Couch." In addition to serving as president of Jerry Lewis Productions, this entertainer has been the national chairman for the Mus­cular Dystrophy Associations of America for more than 20 years. Under his leadership this organization raised the millions of dollars necessary to build the Instiutte for Muscle Disease. 
Richard Lugar: Richard Lugar is presently the senator of Indiana. He was elected into office in 1976. Previously, Lugar served for 8 years as the mayor of Indiananapolis. He is now a member of the Select Intelligence Committee, the National Banking Commit­tee, and the Committee on Housing and Urban Affairs. 
Steve Martin: Steve Martin is a comedian and an entertainer. He recently made his first television on The Tonight Show. Martin also has an album on the market in which he tells jokes and exhibits his musical talent by playing the banjo. 
Ralph Nader: A graduate of the Harvard Univesity Law School, Ralph Nader has become well-known for his role as a consumer advocate ofthe American public. 
He received the Nieman Fellows Award in 1965, and was named one of the Ten Outstanding Young Men in 1967. Nader is the founder of several consumer organiza­tions such as the Center for Resposive Law, The Public Research Group, The Center for Auto Safety, and the Project for Corporate Responsibility. In addition, Nader has written many books about the rights of the consumer. 
Carl Sagan: Carl Sagan is an educator, author and astronomer. He worked on the Apollo Space Projects from 1969-1972. In· 
· 1972 he received the NASA Medal for Exceptional Scientific Achievment for his work concerning the planet Mars. Sagan served as a member of the US delegation to a joint conference with the Soviet Acade­mies of Science on ..Communication with Extrateresstial Intelligence." 
O.J. Slmp&on: O.J. Simpson plays pro­fessional football for the Buffalo Bills. He is the current owner fo the NFL record for yards rushed in a single season. Simpson is also zeroeing in on Jim Brown's record for total yards rushed in a career. A former. graduate of the University of Southern California, Simpson has recently added sports commentating to his list of accom­plishments. 
Bruce Springsteen: Bruce Spring­steen is a musician out of Cherry Hill, New Jersey. In addition to playing 10 different instruments, he writes and arranges all his own music. Springsteen has recorded numerous albums and is a regular on the concert circuit. Some of his more famous songs include "Born to Run," "Tenth Avenue Freeze Out," and "Rosalita." 
Sylvester Stallone: The star and screenwriter of the film "Rocky," Sylves­ter Stallone is an actor at the peak of his career. Born in New York, Stallone worked his way up in the movie industry. He began as an usher in a New York theatre. From there he played bit parts in "Bananas" with Woody Allen, "Capone," 
and "Death Race 2000." 
TectTumet:: Ted Turner is an Atlanta businessman who wons the Atlanta Braves professional baseball team, and the profes­sional Atlanta Hawks basketball team. He also skippered the "Courageous" to the American Cup Championship. 
Kurt Vonnegut: Kurt Vonnegut is a major American novelist and playwright. A former reporter fo the Chicago City News, Vonnegut has become popular for such works as Slaughterhouse-Five, c.t's Cradle, and Breakfast of Champions. He lectured in English at Harvard University in 1970 and served on the faculty at the City College of New York from 1973-1974. He is also a member of the National Institute of Arts and Letters as well as being a former recipient of the Literature Award. 
John Wayne: John Wayne began his acting career in 1929. Since then he has become the biggest box-office attraction in motion picture history. He won an Academy Award for best actor in the 1969 film "True Grit." Some of his more famous movies are "Stagecoach," "The Sands of Iwo Jima," and "The Man Who Shot Liberty Valance." 
Henry Wllllder: Henry Winkler is an actor who-became t•.mous for his role as "The Fonz" on TV's "Happy Days." Educated at Yale Upiversity, Winkler has recently begun work in the movies with his lead in the current film "Heroes." 
Andrew Young: . A former congressman from Georgia, Andrew You~g was recently appointed by Pres. Carter as a US ambassador to the United Nations. He acted as Carter's advisor on minority groups during the Presidential campaign in 1976. Young was also active in the drafting of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and the Voting Rights Act of 1%5. 

~-------­
f Wednesda·· November 16, 1977 
Memorial Library and the Golden Dome are combined ',in a reflection on a Flanner Hall window. [Photo by Ken McAlpine] 
' 
Ride board redesigned 
by Joe Clunl 
To those students searching for a ride home for the Thanksgiving or Christmas breaks, the renovated look of the Student Union Rider Board promises to be the best and most helpful solution. 
The Rider Board is currently located at the southern entrance to the Huddle. It consists of a large map of the United States divided into seven sections. Below the map are several notebooks headed with numbers corresponding to these seven sections and inside are sign up sheets for rides available and rides wanted. However, according to Student Union Services Director, 
Xylitol in gum 
causes tumors 
STONYBROOK, N.Y. [AP]-Re­-;earchers here said yesterday they had been notified by the U.S. Public Health Service that prelimi­nary reports showed a chewing 
· ;.:urn sweetener called Xylitol caused tumors in laboratory ani­mals. The researchers from the State University of New York at Stony Brook cited the reports in announ­cing they have suspende!l-a project in which school children had just hegun chewing gum containing Xylitol. The school children, 300 sixth graders in the William Floyd Union Free School District on Long Is­land, had been chewing the gum for only three days when the project was halted, the university said. The maximum amount of gum any child had chewed was nine sticks, university officials said. Researchers at Stony Brook's School of Dental Medicine had been studying the possible benefi­cial effects on dental decay of two sugar-free chewing gums, one of which was sweetened by Xylitol and the other a natural sweetener called Sorbitol. Late last week, the National Institute of Dental Research, a branch of the U.S. Public Health Service, informed the researchers 
or the laboratory animal study.
The Wm. Wrigley Jr. Co., headquartered in Chicago, recently 
introduced a brand of gum called Orbit containing Xylitol. Manufac­turers have been looking for al­
ternatives to saccarin, which has been found to produce tumors in 
·~ a.awaU..aod .ma)l.~~...-.u..ollJWUt..MUUC.U'-'l.JUjUf..IWir.KIIl:)!:Jl:UJUUJULQ_Q_Q_QiQ_QmiQ.Q_ 
Mike Schlageter, the present sys­tem has two main problems. 
He explained that the Rider Board is not specific enough for those needing a ride (one particular section covers 11 western states and the program is in the hands of the students, which results in many of the "rides available" sheets 
being  taken  home  by  those  stu­ 
dents needing a ride.  
To cure  these problems,  a  new  

set-up and proceedure has been developed which will be phased for the Thanksgiving break and hope­fully it will be permanent thereaf­ter. 
The new system resolves the first problem of the map being too general, by dividing the United States into its area codes. Indiana Bell has been very cooperative with the Student Union and has pro-

Shah gr~eeted with demonstration 
WASHINliTON [AP]-The Shah of Iran was greeted at th·e White House by a 21-gun salute and the sting of tear gas yesterday as rival groups of demonstrators clashed near the presidential gates in the capital's largest and bloodiest street protest since the end of the Vietnam war. 
President and Mrs. Jimmy Car­ter, the Shah and Empress Farah forged coolly through formal wel­coming ceremonies on the south lawn of the White House despite the raucous disturbance within earshot and a cloud of tear gas that permeated the offices of the man­sion and surrounding buildings. 
At least 20 police officers and 86 demonstrators from among thou­sands of both supporters and critics of the shah were injured in a melee, which erupted on the Ellipse just south of the White House, as the Iranian leader arrived via helicop­ter. 
A dozen persons were arrested, two for assault on a police officer and the others for disorderly con­duct. 
Most of the injuries did not appear serious, though a hospital spokesman declared "We've: got a lot of bloody faces." One older man, however, was taken to sur­
vided all 109 area codes along with their respective sections of the country. 
Concerning the second problem, an organization was needed to run the Rider Board and make it more -::onvenient for the students. Ombudsman, which has the avail­able personel, has agreed to take over. Under this new system, a student calls Ombudsman at OBUD, gives his name and the city and area code of his destination. Ombudsman will then keep it on file until a ride is found. 
For those students who are currently signed up for rides at the present Ride1 Board it will still be in use until after the Thanksgiving break. Others who still need ~~ ride home for Thanksgiving or Christ­mas can call Ombudsman, OBUD, on Thursday or Friday of this week. 

The NEW LEACH FREE SPIRIT RACQUETBALL RACQUET with vln~l bumper, aluminum 
107 West Wayne ••• frame, and leather grip River Bend Plaza 
gery with a fractured skull and was described as in critical condition. 
President Carter dabbed his eyes with his thumb, and the Shah used a silk handkerchief as they ex­changed words of greeting and friendship before heading inside the White House for private talks. Carter apologized for • 'the tempor­ary air pollution in Washington" as the Shah presented him with a tapestry portrait of George Wash­ington. 
The first lady and Empress Farah, meanwhile, went to tea as mounted police were clearing the grounds nearest the executive mansion of the rival factions whose shows of strength, origianlly sep­arated, were drawn inextricably closer and then to the flash point. 
Even after the Ellipse was cleared, thousands of hooded, anti­shah Iranian students regrouped in a park just north of the White House-and within a block of the shah's guest quarters-to jeer him upon his afternoon departure for a State Department meeting. 
U.S. Park Police estimated the 

total demonstration force at 8,000. One small band broke away at 2 
p.m. to rush a diplomatic car which the students claimed contained Iranian secret police. The car was struck with clubs and sticks but sped away to safetv. 
The confrontation on the Ellipse lasted about 30 minutes, and there were later incidents of fist-fighting away from the scene. 
Despite police lines aimed at keeping the student demonstrators away from the pro-shah forces, mainly Armenians and Assyrians, the two groups converged on one another after their numbers had swelled into the thousands just before the shah's arrival. 
ROTC 
The ROTC Annual Dining Out will be held at the University Club tomorrow at 6 p.m. Guest spea~ers will be members of the Umted States Air Force Academy. 

with Special Guest Star ERIC CARMEN 
also appearing 
NETWORK SATURDAyI NOVEMBER 1 9 I 8:00 p.M. NOTRE DAME A.C.C. 
All Seats Reserved: $7.00 and $6.00 Tickets on sale at: 
• 
Notre Dome A.C.( Box Office • It Joseph Bonk & Branches • hrsl Bonk-Mom oft1ce only Sot 9 to I • R1ver (ity Records • Suspended Cord 1n Elkhart 

• 
Student Umon Ticket Office • Boog1e Records • Elkhart Truth 

• 
Robertson's·S.B. & Concord Moll • Just for the Record • Record Jomt -Niles 




SENORS 
Join VISTA and lhare your Liberal Arts experience with America's urban & Nral ~­your degree in EIXJCATION, SOCIAL 
SOENCE, HEALTH, BUSINESS ADMIN. 
PHYS. ED., or RECREATION can help solve social, human and environ­mental prablems ollow-income communities. Sign up at Placement Office fot. a tallc with former VISTA voiU,.teer on campus: 
November 15-17 
----------------------------~---------­
Wednesday, November 16, 1977 the observer 

Committees discuss ~l!m'!!! tlf!!!.;!!.'f!:t..I!.!C!9!I!~ 
Jimmy Carter's energy program is Monday, for instance, that group being hammered out with foam was able to approve a tax credit for rubber mallets by House-Senate employers who buy vans to trans­conference committees at a pace port their empoloyees to work. slightly slower than evolution. Then, carried away by the bliz-
Most members of the House and -zard of activity, the conferees Senate are home, or junketing agreed that the employee who is somewhere. But the senators and transported by that employer's van t;epresentatives on the conference won't have to pay tax on the value committees soldier on in a war that of that fringe benefit. is only a moral equivalent. On a scale of ten, the van-trans­
" I, for one, don't enjoy staying port incentive doesn't even budge around Washington," said Rep. the needle. Harley Staggers, D-W.Va., trying The Senate-passed bill would to spur his conference committee spend 42 billion dollars over the on. "There are some here who like next eight years on energy conser­to live in Washington. I don't." vation and production incentives. 
That morning, the senators on According to experts, the van his committee had flatly rejected pool credit would cost the govern-items one through 29 of proposed ment three million to four million public utility regulatory policies dollars a year, or in the neighbor­contained in the House bill, but no hood of 30 million dollars in the . in the measure passed by th~ eight-year span. Energy savings Senate. ! according to the conference com: 
In the same spirit of conciliatiotj, mittee's own document, is "negli­the House members voted to star!d gible." by all the items. The result ;is Last week, the tax committee called standing pat on square one. accepted one provision equally 
Staggers is the chairman of qne ho-hum. That item would give a joint committee-the one work,ing tax credit for electric or hydrogen on getting a consensus on non/tax motor vehicles. Uncle Sam would items of the separate and une~ual spend about 53 million dollars on energy bills passed by the , two that through fiscal 1986 and again houses of Congress. In Stasgers' the energy savings are rated negli­preview are natural gas pricing, gible. utility rates, conversion of utilities With that kind of activity, one and business to coal, and manda-would expect the hearings to be tory conservation. playing to empty rooms. Not so. 
By comparison, the other com-Each is jammed to capacity-almost mittee-the tax group headed by totally with lobbyists. · Sen. Russell Long of Louisiana and But even they are seen falling Rep. AI Ullman of Oregon-was asleep. 

Possible baby-boom in decade 
WASHINGTON, [AP] -Amer­ica's fertility rate is on the upswing and a prominant economist says a baby boom may occur within the next decade. 
Richard A. Easterlin, an econo­mics professor at the University of Pennsylvania, says it's too early to tell whether the six to seven percent increase in America's birth rate during the first eight months of 1977 is significant. 
"But my general expectation is that in the next five to ten years, the birth rate is likely to increase substantially," he said. 
The latest Vital Statistics Report released by the National Center for Health Statistics shows that the birth rate, the fertility rate and the number of babies born in the United States were higher in the first seven months of this year than they were last year. A center official says yet unpublished fi­gures show the trend continued during the eighth month of 1977. 
Easterlin believes that more babies are likely to be born when 
Duggan speaks at Fisher 
[continued from page 1] lodged a complaint with the administration. "I don't know why 
this had to happen. It's lamentable. Our students are upset, and I wouldn't be surprised if we heard more from them," claimed Dug­gan. 
Regarding the proposal for a St. Mary's Senior Bar, Duggan com­mented that contrary to the story that appeared in Monday's Obser­ver it is not out of the question for this year. He said it was still under active consideration. 
When asked whether or not an architect had been chosen for the proposed new library, Duggan said that no final choice had been made either for the architect or for the building site. He commented that a consulting firm had recommended that they should not merely reno­vate the older building, but should definitely start from scratch. 
Two possible sites for the new library that Duggan mentioned were the southeast side of Mad­eleva Hall, or in between Regina and LeMans Hall. The second site would require relocation of the parking lot which is currently there. Duggan claimed one advan­tage in that it would get traffic away from the middle of the campus and out to the periphery. He added that the old library would probably be converted into a stu­dent center. 
Anyone interested .in the position of Observer Features Editor should contact the Obseruer office (4th poor LaFortune, tel. 7471) between 9 and 5. All _applications 
should be in by ·Friday, Nou IS. 
9 more days 'till Thankgiving!! 



Restaurant & Lounge 
327 W. Marion St. South Bend, Ind. Phone 232-2277 
visit our package liquor store 
open dally 11 am to 12 pm. Friday and Slturdlj until1 am. 

competition forjobs and schooling 
is lessened by smaller numbers of 
young people. 
When there are a lot of young people, such as those born during the post World War II generation, competition for schooling, jobs and what is generally considered to be the good life will be stiff. 
Today, however, the relative number of young adults in America is starting to decline, meaning that there will be less competition to get into college and more jobs avail­<ible Easterlin said. 
--------, ---------------------------------------------------~­


10 Lie detector tests force choice of privacy or job 


INDIANAPOLIS, [API -hulls­criminate use of lie detection tests forces employees to choose be­tween their privacy and their jobs, Sen. Birch Bayh said yesterday as 
Unlike other a­he opened hearings in Washington reas on cam­on a measure to control such pus, the dome testing. of the Adminis­
Bayh, the bill's sponsor and
tration building 
chairman of the Senate subcommit­
has no lighting 
tee on the constitution, said in
problems. [photo 
remarks released by his office hereby Ken McAlpineI 
that the proposal would not effect legitimate polygraph testing by police. The Indiana Democrat said the measure is designed to stop haphazard, random testing in the public and private sectors. 
"We are being catalogued, pro­bed and filed as never 
"We are being catalogued, pro­bed and filed as never before. It is time we closely examined this trend and its implications for the future of our country," he said. The bill is based on recommenda­tions made by the Federal Privacy Protection Study Commission fol­


Schlesinger criticizes industry 
lowing a two-year study, Bayh said. 

Houston (AP)-Secretary of Energy present problems that the nations 
James Schlesinger, accusing oil­faces." 
men of "colossal exaggeration" Just Schlesinger's presence at 
and "paranoia," ventured into the convention was viewed by some 
Texas oil country yesterday and industry officials as a conciliatory 
criticized 2,800 industry officials gesture, but he made no firm offer 
for spreading "myths" about Pres­of compromise. At a news 
ident Jimmy Carter's energy plan. conference after his speech, he said 
Schlesinger, speaking to the final that many people in the industry 
general session of the American had told him that some reassurance 
Petroleum Institute's annual con­of the government's good inten­
vention, dismissed industry objec­tions was needed. But he added, 
tions to the energy plan as "a "This is not the moment for sudden 
mythology that has spread widely adaptation of the National Energy 
in this industry and which really Plan." 
has no direct relevance to the The secretarv's speech was 
Begin invites Sadat to Israel to discuss peace 
JERUSALEM (AP) lsreali ter, Jerusalem," without mention Prime Minister Menahem Begin of Isreal. Begin told U.S. Ambas­yesterday formally invited Anwar sador Samuel Lewis he would need Sadat to Israel in response to the a reply by Friday so he could, if Egyptian president's offer to make necessary, rearrange a scheduled such a trip to try to end the visit to Britain next week. "vicious circle"that has kept the 
Begin also invited the leaders of 
Middle East at war for three Syria, Jordan, and Lebanon to decades. 
follow Sadat's visit reiteratingIn Cairo, Sadat called the pro­standing invitations for them to posed visit, which would break the meet him for peace talks. 
Arab taboo against any leader The Arab world's reaction to thevisiting Israel, a "sacred duty." 
proposed Sadat visit was generallyBegin told the Knesset, the subduec except for criticism fromIsraeli parliament, that he had sent hard-line Iraq and Palestinian ex­the written invitation to Sadat tremists. The Baghdad daily Aththrough the U.S. Embassy in Tbawra said Sadat's proposal "hasJerusalem. A diplomatic source weakened the Arabs and placedsaid the message had reached them in a position of degradationCairo within three hours of Begin's and humiliation before the interna­speech. 
tional community."
The source said the invitation mentioned no specific date but was Sadat told reporters yesterday at phrased along the idea of "come as his Barrages retreat outside of soon as you can." He said it was Cairo, where he had recieved a "welcoming, forthcoming and U.S. congressional delegation: open.'' "I consider this trip as a sacred 
The invitation was contained in a duty and that this vicious circle we large white envelope carrying the are turning around in...has to be return address ''The Prime Minis-
broken. 
"If I can break it and do notBrademas break it, I shall be questioned about it... Questioned by whom?announces By God, and that is why it is sacred."
hearings on bills 
In Washington, Egyptian Am-
Representative John Brademas bassador Ashraf-Ghorbal ruled out 
(D-Ind.), Chairman of the Sub-any separate peace with Israel 
committee on Select Education, resulting from Sadat's visit. "That 
announced today a series of is not in the cards," he said, hearings on bills he has introduced pointing out that Sadat still insists calling for a White House confer-on Israel returning all the land ence on the arts and humanities. taken from Syria and Jordan, as 
In making the announcement, well as from Egypt, in the Six-Day 
Brademas noted that while Federal War of 1967 and on a Palestinian 
support for the arts and humanities state being set up on the West 
has grown substantially over the Bank of the Jordan River and in 
past decade, there are still issues Gaza. 
concerning the future of the arts While an arch foe of Israel,
and humanities which need dis-Egypt has been the Arab nationcussion and analysis. National most willing to seek agreementconferences on each subject would 
be held in Washington, D.C. in with the Jewish state and the two· 1979 following state conferences at countries have already negotiated which issues would be identified disengagement agreements under and delegates selected for the which Israel had pulled back from 
greeted -with only polite applause, 
and the institute's new chairman 
later said Schlesinger had not been 
"very forthright." 
Schlesinger and the industry, rarely clashing face to face, have battled for months through lobby­ists and statements to the media as Carter's energy plan moved slowly through Congress. 
Schlesinger has been seeking support for the plan; the industry has been demanding more incen­tives for domestic oil and gas production. 
The fight has continued as a congressional conference commit­tee works on various compromise proposals. In his speech, Schlesinger listed as "myths" held by the industry: 
-The belief that the fede1·al government does not think there are significant amounts of oil and gas remaining to be discovered in the United States. 
"That is not true," he said.. "We read the same publications and surveys that you do. The geological survey estimates a SO-SO probability that there are 81 billion barrels to be discovered." 
But he quoted estimates as saying that at the current rate of consumption, all that oil would be consumed within 18 years. 
-The belief that there are no incentives in the energy program for increased production of oil a.nd gas. 
"We had thought that .th•ere were generous incentives," he 

said. "Indeed, in our naivete, we had expected some grudging ac­ceptance, even a degree of enthus­iasm, from the industry." 
ije based that expectation on the fact that for the first time, newly produced domestic oil would be sold at the world price, more than double the current price. 
-The belief that federal offic:als 
"have it in" for the industry. 
"I put that under the heading of suspicion or paranoia,'' Schle:~in­ger said. "The objective of the government is to see the American oil industry flourish. Indeed it is flourishing." 
-The belief that the plan is "all conservation and no production." 
"This is a colossal exagg•era­tion" he said. "Conservation1ists are probably closer to the truth when they oi 
point out that there is a very limited amount of conservation in this program and that there is no change whatsoever intended in t.he basic American lifestyle, which includes surburban living and. in­dividual mobility in the form of the 
automobile." Schlesinger began his speech
f c •
with a joking re erence to arter s
1 k h 
statement severa wee s ago t at
th 
the impending energy crisis is ~­moral equivalent of war. Schlesin­ger said he was assured that "a,t' least the ~PI ~ould of!er mt~ }!1e1 
Thousands of workers and job applicants are forced to submit to mass lie detector test sweeps where they work, Bayh said. He characterized such sweeps as 'of­ten ill motivated searches for information by a society grown increasingly interpendent and com­plex. 
"Tlre use of lie detectors in this sweeping indiscriminate manner raises concerns about the validity of the test results," he said. ''There is a great deal of scientific difference between the test when used as an investigative tool in solving a specific crime, and when used to inquire in often ambiguous terms about the past life of a job applicant or the current perfor­mance of a worker." 
An employer would face a one year prison term and fines of up to $1,000 for willfully violating the proposal. The act would also estab­lish a civil penalty of up to $10,000 to be paid by the federal treasury, in cases of less blatant violations. And it would allow individuals to recover damages from the employ­
er. 
Testimony during the two-day hearings will come from the Ameri­can Polygraph Association, the American Civil Liberties Union, The Retail Clerks International Association, the .National Associa­tion of Convenience Stores, plus other business, civic and union representatives. 
t,!i~~~~e(. .......:,:..;.::...~tJt;..~l!~ ~.f!!~L .....,_____....~'?!!~~~~f~~~~~~i~i,..,.,.,. 
---~--~· .-·-·~ 
w~!:~::~::~~!~~~......!~!-~~!~'!!~--1!
Union of ND Gymnasts granted all classifieds must be pre-pa1d • club status, membership ope,_ either in person or through the 
ginners as wen as expenencea 1ne umon has planned for 

mail. all classified ads must be
The Union of Notre Dame gymnasts. The group will meet at intercollegiate competition as well Gymnasts was granted club status the Rockne Memorial gymnastics as practices at area gymnasiums. last Friday. The purpose of the room on Mondays, Wednesdays Anyone interested in joining the received by 5 pm two days prior Union is to promote the art and and Fridays from 4-5 p.m. Noel group should contact Joan sport of gymnastics through organ-O'Sullivan, member of the ND Jacobsen (6246), John Whalen to the issue in which the ad is to 
ized practice and competition. physical education staff and head (1208), Terri Wareham (6354) or Membership is open to be-golf coach, will sponsor the group. John Paulik (8798) . 

run.
.--------------··----------------------------..---------------------~ 
TYPIST WANTED: Fulltime, to typset Southern Turkey: Looking for riders on Pandoru Books 937 South Bend Ave •








·:rred th 
C Sl 
e 
NOTICES 
Bus service to Chicago-every Friday this semester. Buses arrive at the circle at 
6:05 . For ticket and info call Shep, 8330. 
Will do typing. Neat. Accurate. Hours: 9-6. Call: 287-5162. 
Typing. Reasonable rates. Call 8051. 
Anyone wishing to vote in the May Indiana election should call Moat 4-4001. 
Interested in updating your understand­
I ing of the Christian Faith and Catholic tradition? Considering the possiblity of becoming a Catholic? For more informa­tion, drop by the Campus Ministry offices in Memorial Library or Badin Hall, or call 6536 or 3820. 
EXPERIENCED TYPIST: for more In­formation, please call 272-2819. 
Overeaters Anonymous starting group on campus. Call 289-6021. 
We need a band! Do you have a band? Need to practice some more or would you like to play for a good cause? The Notre Dame-St. Mary's Council for the Retard­ed is looking for a band to play at our monthly dances. Our November 16 is next Wednesday and the time is 7:30-10: oo pm. The Logan kids love live music, so if you'd be interseted in playing for us, please give us a call : Jeanne Conboy 284-4391, or Art Koebel 287-7~. 
THE OBSERVER offices wi/(be closed at 4:30pm on Fridays throughout the winter months. ·· 
MORRISSEY LOAN FUND Student Loans $20-$150 with one day wait. One percent interest due in 30 days. LaFortune Basement, M-F, 11:15­12:15. 
Will do typing. Neat. Accurate. Call 287-5162 
AN TOSTAL COMMITTEE is looking for assistant chairman, day chairman. event chairmen, secretary, publicity, etc. Applications at Student Govt. offices. 2nd floor LaFortune. 
NOTICE TO ALL SENIORS: Final elections for Senior Class Fellow begin today at 11 am. Vote in the dining halls or the lobby of LaFortune. Make your vote count!!! 
FOR SALE 
Basketball tickets for sale. ALL GAMES! Call1159. 
68 Dodge coronet, PWR, Air, No Rust. Running good. Call 272-7704, must sell. 
'73 Cougar XR-7, Automatic, Full Power, Air. Best offer cal 3479. 
USC-UCLA sportswear for sale. Come and browse. 326 Morr. Ask for Kevin. 3587. 
RIVER CITY RECORDS is Northern Indiana's largest and most complete record store! Located just three mloles north of NO-SMC on US 31. River City Records has over 8,000 records and tapes to choose from. NO and SMC checks accepted. Open until 10:110 Thursday, Friday, and Saturday; noon to 8:110 sundays. 
For Sale: Two ovation Guitars, [one] classic ovation with hard shell ovation case. Asking $225. One Balladeer 
ovation with case, Barcus Berry pickup and leather strap. Asking $165. Must sell. Call Gene at 1694. 
RENT 
Five room house for rent. Central gas and heating within walking distance. 233-6438. 
Apartment: Furnished two bedroom apartment -185$-inquire at Louie's after 
6. 
a 
LOST AND FOUND 
FOUND: Calculator before break. Call to identity. 8557. 
LOST: "St. Mary's Track" jacket with "Bob" sewn on the front. Rob, 8684. 
Glasses found with black case at Library circle. To Claim call Tom Basile, 233-8288. 
LOST: 2 gold rings left in the Rock's gymnastics room, one with blue star sapphire and the other with initials GDM. 
If found please call me 7439. 
LOST: Watch, between North Dining Hall and Stepan. Call 287-8082. 
LOST: 1975 Orange Bowl watch. Great sentimental value: irreplaceable. Please contact Ernie Hughes, 287-8082. Reward 
LOST: Mens pocketwatch In library auditorium or c-1 parking lot or in between. $20 reward. Call Rick, 272-5408. 
LOST: Freshman calculas book and green notebook taken from the South Dining Hall on 11-15. Please return and no questions asked. 8279. 
WANTED 
Seniors: Who is your senior class fellow? VOTE TODAY!! Polls close this Friday. 
Need four GA ticktes to Air Force game. , Call Anne 4983. 
Desperately need ride to Long Island for thanksgiving. Can leave Monday after­noon. Will share driving and expenses. Moni, 4-5380.
( 
: Needed: student or GA tickets for Air Force. Call Jan, 4-4184. 
Need one student Air Force ticket! Call 
~  Terri  -7883.  
.  \Need  six  Air  Force  tickets.  Beth,  
\  272-2340.  

I 
Need two GA tickets for Air Force. Call Mark-1067. 
Help! Need 2, 4, 6 GA Air Force tickets for family. Call Jim 6710 after 8. 
Need 2 GA Air Force tickets. Cindy, 8037. 
Need 3 student tickets for Air Force game. Call Kathy 5355. 
Wanted: 2student tickets for Air Force. Call Sandy, 4-5346. 
Need 4 GA Air Force tickets, Kathy 4-4964. 
Need one student ticket for Air Force game. Call Suzy, 4-5361. 
Needed: 2 'GA Air Force tickets. Joan, 1280. 
Need ride to Philadelphia area for break. Can leave after classes on Monday, Nov. 
21. Will share expenses. Denny, 8906. 
Need ride to Wash. DC for 2 for Thanksgiving. Can leave anytime after clases Monday. Cal Jim 8906 or Frances 6907. 
Ride needed over Thanksgiving braek to Xenia-Springfield-Dayton area of Ohio. Can leave Wednesday. Am willing to share expenses. Call Joe Menino at 7735(6). 
Need one GA Air Force ticket. Call Mary 4786. 
Senior DESPERATELY NEEDS V2 GA tickets for the Air Force game. Call 4705 if there is no answer try 4711. 
Need two GA Air Force tickets. Call Joe, 8927 or 8930. 
Need 2-4 GA Air Force tickets. Tom 
3693. 
Need 2-3 GA Air Force tickets. Call Tim 
1036. 
display advertising, Monday and Wed· 
nesday through Satuirday afternoon and· or evenings. Hourly pay. Experien<:'l helpful but not necessary. Apply '" person at: The Penny Saver, 2102 S. Michigan St., South Bend. 288-1411. 
Wanted: Delivery person for Jullos pizza. 
Sat eves only.  Must have own  car.  
salary, $3 per  hr. plus tips.  Call  
233-2354.  

Need 2 Air Force tix. Cal 4-5245. 
Hurtin' for 6GA Air Force tix. Tom 1066. 
Need ride to Milwaukee Tuesday night, Nov. 22. Call Barb, 4-5245. 
Help a desperate senior! Need 1 AirForce GA or student ticket. Call Ann 6808. 
Needed: Ride to and or from Ann Arbor on wekend of Nov. 19. Call Jim 8251. 
Desperately need B·Ball tix vs. Marqu­ette U. Feb. 26. Will buy or trade. Please call 3256. 
Need ride to Alex VA.?? Staff member leaving Monday, Nov. 21, noon. Room for 3. Call R. Athey -7166. 
Need ride toLl, NYC, or No. Jer.. Can leave Tues., the 22nd. Rob, 8464. 
Desperately need ride to -from Buffalo over Thanksgiving. Will share driving, expenses. Bill 6765. 
Need 4GA tickets for Air Force. Will pay $$$$. Call 6143, Gary. 
Au Secours: Need ride home for two to 
S.W. Conn. or NY. Can leave Mon the 21st after 3. Nick, 8174. 
Need ride to Nor. VA-DC area. Leave 21st after classes. Share usual. Bob 
8643. 
Wanted: 1 pair of men's size 9 hockey skates. Call Dave at 1244. 
Need two student basketball tickets (together). Will pay good money. Call 277-3604. Ask for Dave.• 
I need one student ticket for Air Force. Please call Tony, 1215. 
Wanted: Need ride to Columbus for Thanksgiving. Can leave Tuesday after­noon (22nd) or anytime after. Call Tim at 
6867. 
Need 2 or 3 AF student or GA tickets. Call1244. 
Large family coming from Sicily. Need many GA and student tickets. Will make you an offer you can't refuse. Call Vito, 
8685. 
Wanted: 1 student basketball season ticket. Call Dan 288-8723. 
Wanted': Ride to Michigan State at Thanksgiving. Call1244. 
Seek ride to Allentown PA or vicinity for thanksgiving. Kate, 7813. 
Wanted: Ride to Boston for Thanksgiving braek. Will share driving and expenses. Call Tony at 1436. 
Need four GA Air Force tix. John, 232-0550, 10 am -6 pm only. Good Money! 
Need 5 GA Air Force tix. Plaese call Debbie, 234-1485. 
Need two student Air Force tix. Call Debbie, 234-1485. 
Need ride to Champaign, Ill. vicinity Friday, 11-18. Call1276. 
Desperately need 2 GA Air Force tix. Please call Cindy after 10. 5484. 
Need riders to St. Louis for thanksgiving braek. Jim 3104. 
Need ride to St. Louis area for Thanksgiv­ing. Call Peggy 4-4774. 
Ski saleperson-mechanic to work even­ings. Approx. 12-20 hrs per week . Call Tom 272-5300. 
Male grad student wants share apt. w-same (spr. sem) . Write: Mark Thompson, 105 Dorchester Rd., Louis­ville, Kentucky, 40223. 
Need four GA Air Force tickets. Call John ' 
Thanksgiving Eve travelling to Atlanta 
via Louisville, Nashville, Chattanooga. Call Karen or Bill, 616-429-3507. 
Call Walt at 288-oosa. 
Need riders to Pittsburgh for Thanksgiv­ing. Call Chris, 4-4515. 
Help, I need two Air Force tickets, either GA or student, please call Pete at 8518 anytime. 
Help my two little sisters see their first NO football game. Sell me two GA Air Force tickets. Call Dave at 3493 anytime. 
Not111 Dame Is better than UCLA • Right???? Help me prove It to my brother from C1. Need an Air Force ticket for him. Pleeez call 4-5137 or 1580. 
Wanted: 3 riders to Bristol, Va. leaving November 21. Share money and driving. Call1072. 
PERSONALS 
Lynchie, Good luck with your tests. Thanks for the weekend! Snue 
Happy Birthday Eilleen Corsini, evn though It was yesterday (Nov. 15) the thought was still there. 
LoveJM 
M the J  
Ditto!!  
Derelict  

The seniors this year are terrlffic and great, 144 Class fellows they did nomi­nate, But now they must vote for the ones they want most, who is the senior class fellow that they want to toast? VOTE FOR YOUR CANDIDATE TODAY 
Hey Jack, Welcome to SMC. Love, Blitz and Block 
Georgie-
Hey round eyes, I have your chopsticks, give your big stir a call sometime. 
Bitz 
To an aspiring young writress (Ellen Marie Buddy), 
Tahnks for the compliment, nonwith­standing the subject material! However, private lessons can be arranged at your convenience! 
R.T. "B" H" K Jr. 
Charlie, I'm fine but scared. Do what they say. Bubbles 
Farleyites, Beware of Klansmen bearing gifts. 
Will Mary Pat escape the wrath of the Blue Moon? 
''----------------------­
Nona, I'II send you a postcard from the cotton bowl. Look for the helmut on TV. Dave 
Pat, • Congratulations on your aCCEPTANCE No more studying on the weekends! The Cavenaugh Crew 
To the girl at 929 -Your chocolate chip cookies were the bestest. 
110 Dillon 
422 and 420 Stanford Happy Wednesday B 
Hey layered girl and "piece of furniture" Thanks for bearing with so much grief. Sorry!! The guilty Bucketeer 
Kevin Walsh (North Quad B) Beware! The police wi II be after you. 
downfromComY'I·Iswhtl1lyoucansel1
books now IRd get credit tow1rd uud boob next lllllllllar. Ph0111 233-2342. 1 N9 IMG ~UNIQR Gl:l,ll GHRIIlMAII FORMAL••••DEC. THIRD You wouldn't want to miss the bliss ofl 
"Winter's Kiss". Nov. 16-22 ticket sales1 start....so hurry and ask the one dear toI your heart! Further info call Lynne 4476. I Kathy 5111, Marnie 2-6976. 
~~ ~~~~~TT~~ w~~t~~~ I 
HE WON WW II ALMOST SINGLEI 
~~rf~g~~ WAYNE SENIOR CLAss1 FELLOW. 1 
If you have any printing, layout, and-orl management experience and would likel to work part-time on campus, call Campus Press, 7047, 1-5 mon-fri; ask fori Bill or John. This is a paid position. 1 
Saint Mary's students: Seats are stilil available on the New York Area charterl flight; Dec. 22nd and Jan 16th. Cal MaryI Laverty: 4319. I 
Dear Scooter, I 
Life is a trip, but some towns a111 better n than others. Friday night tour is byll' appointment only. Signed, 
Tour guide, room 3841 
Charlie-I Help! Call the FBI right away. I BubblesI 
SENIORS: RESUME WRITING AND I TYPING....CALL MARGIE OR MARGO, I 
212-s211. 1 
Whoever stole the big batch of cookies I from 344 Farley give 'em back! We'rel hungry! 1 
Rabbit, Chris, Honey and Ann I 
Happy Late 21 Mike Young The hype's 1 now a man. 1 
AMS In 212, I Never thought much of St. Eds. I'll take I ACC any day. Care to discuss it? 1 
JDO in 231l 
"Special" thanks to the "refs" and thel number 1chain gang of the interhall GirlsI football games 
From the timekeeperI 
Will trade one season bleacher seat andll $$$ and coors (or will buy with no trade) one excelent padded basketball season I ticket. Preferably section one. 233-8855.1 
Dear Flat, Stonette, G. Bush "EPI"-Iepticl and the pope I 
Had a great time especially when we 1 were driving those virile men from Dillon I mad with passion. Watch out for those Magura Palm Readers. Much Love. I 
Xaviera "the tree" 1 
Wanna get "lucky"? Call Shawn at 4489.1 
Dear little red-headed girl, II Are they red too? I 4489
----------------1 
To the best horn tooter on campus.......... . Maynard, Good luck at the Nazz I Big Brother 1 
To Old Lady in 0.0., I No need to be sorry...we're not. I Friends of Yogi Bear 1 
Wine and cheese party-after the game -1 after the fantastics -9 to 1. First I Uniterian church....tickets one dollar at 
S. U. ticket office. 
TO "Betty" at Holy Cross. I'd like to come over sometime and talk about cats. Tell me your 111al name. 
Mike 11109 
P. J. 
Any freshman worth having a crush on is worth approaching in a straight-forward way. If all else fai Is then become a monk or an R.A. 
1011 


Wednesday, November 16, 1977 
observer
r 

I I I 



Keenan wins third straight IH crown 
~ 
by BID CaldweD Sporta Writer 
On Sunday afternoon, Keenan 
Hall won it's third consecutive 
interhall grid title by soundly 
defeating the Sbuth Quad rep­
resentative, St. Eds Hall, 22-0. 
St. Eds had earned the honor of playing in the title game by defeating Fisher Hall, 14-0, in last . game Of the season after Fisher had tied Off Campus a week earlier. 
This combination allowed the surprising St. Eds team to · claim the South quad title, just edging out 0-C. In St. Eds victory over Fisher Dan Tranel and Andy Schmidt scored on 10 yard runs to give St. Eds it winning margin. Keenan had earned its way into the game by beating Zahm Hall in their final game of the season, 10-2, thus allowing them to slip by Flanner in the standings. 
The game started out looking as if it could be one of the best games of the season but a break was to change this and give Keenan it's momentum for the afternoon. Keenan had driven down to the 43 yard line but stalled. As Keenan lined up for a long field goal try St Eds jumped offsides, which gave Keenan a first down. After the first down Keenan marched down field and scored on an II yard end­around by Mike Fassler. the extra point attempt by Ed Danko went through the uprights to give Keenan a 7-0 lead early in the second quarter. 
It seemed that this was the way that the score would end up at the intermission but one of Keenan's special teams came up with a score before the half ended. St. Eds went into punt formation but the kick was blocked by Mike Buckley and recovered in the end zone for a touchdown by Jeff "Newfer" Smith. The two point conversion attempt was good on a run by Fassler. This gave Keenan a commanding 15-0 lead at the half. 
Early in the third quarter Keenan drove down field and scored the final points of the contest. The score came on an eight yard run by the workhouse of the Keenan offense, Fassler. The extra point attempt by Danko was good and that put the score at 22-0. 
Both coaches felt that there was no excuse for the poor field conditions that exist~d throughout the game. None of the snow from the previous night had been removed and this made the field very wet and slippery. St. Eds coach, Dan Tranel, felt that these conditions hurt his club offensively because they rely on quick move­ment in the backfield. However, this fact does not detract from the excellent performance of the Keenan defense. 
The Keenan defensive line, composed of Jeff Smith, Doug Krighauser, Dave Smith, Mike Buckley, and Lou Basso, played a tremendous game by not allowing a usually potent St. Eds offense to get on track. Mark Nonman had 4 tackles behind the line of scrim­mage accounting for 21 yards in losses. 
The defensive backfield also played a good game as Mike Monville had one interception and 
Monte Towle 
Soccer Success 
Towle's Tribute 
The Notre Dame soccer team was denied a chance to perform an encore this year. The NCAA soccer tournament selection board decided to bypass the Fighting Irish in 1977 in favor of Wheaton College. Notre Dame ended their season this past Saturday in dominating a 
~~~~:;-:~=~~::, ~~~~svi~~;e~,:· t!-~~~~~~s~h~~t ;~~h tte1 t~~~ ~~~:~;t
chosen for the NCAA Division II playoffs. 
Notre Dame was handicapped in being considered for this year's tournament because it was the first year of varsity soccer at Notre Dame and the NCAA is wary of selecting 'infant teams' for its prestigious tournaments. In addition, the elevation to varsity status came after the schedule had already begun so that Notre Dame's soccer team was actually 'semi-varsity' in athletic terminology. I was also informed that Notre Dame's schedule of opponents had not been tough enough. As if Solid wins over the likes of Michigan, Purdue, Xavier and Evansville didn't mean that much. Try telling that with a straight face to Coach Rich Hunter. Try convincing co-captains Terry Finnegan and Jim Rice, as well &s their hard-working teammates, that they had played a patsy list of opposing schools. To say that this regard' of Notre Dame's schedule is outrageous, is an understatement. · 
The NCAA actually did send a representative to Notre. Dame's game 
· .1gainst Huntington College two weeks ago. Apparently, he hadn't been impressed. The Irish were coming off a 10-day layoff because of October break and even though Notre Dame won the game 4-1, the representative from the NCAA obviously did little to enhance Notre Dame's chances of getting an NCAA tournament bid. Rich Hunter was the first to admit that his team hadn't played well in winning the Huntington game. I won't dwell on excuses, but the NCAA failed in doing its homework. If they had ,pent more than a mere 30 minutes in observing *iJe Irish, they would have been justified in graciously handing Notre Dame a bid. Where is 
. Wheaton College located, anyway? 
In any case. the success of the Notre Dame soccer program in its first vear as a varsity sport was outstanding. Sixteen consecutive victories...a b1-19 scoring margin over its opponents ... a total of 394 shots against the 190 taken by opposition. Those are numbers that only reflect the story of success on the soccer field at Notre Dame. The real story of success lies within the hearts of Coach Rich Hunter, assistants Tom Van Meter and Todd Cooper, and the cast of competitive characters that comprise the team. 
Like most other sports teams on the Notre Dame campus, the soccer team is its own fraternity. It is a true brotherhood that binds its members to\\ orking together as teammates on and off the field. They are a spirited group. yet disciplined. They enjoy playing the game, yet they aren't always satisfied in victory. And most importantly, they ae mutually concerned about how each is doing and no one player ever refuses to give answers to another's questions. 
If one were to isolate the strategic factors that go into the soccer team's success, he would have to put his finger on the controlled, yet quick, short passing game, the endurance of each player achieved through countless hours of physical conditioning, as well as a willingness to hustle all the time. Simple, yet effective. 
The soccer seed which is only now blossoming in America is doing the $arne on the Notre Dame campus. Soccer is blooming. As Notre Dame Athletic Director Moose Drause put it at the team's banquet Monday night, it was a historical moment for the Notre Dame soccer program as it basked in the glory of a great season. Senior Terry Finnegan was named MVP, Pete 'Squeak' Logan was awarded the team's sportsmanship trophy, Bill Hagerty was recognized as the leading scorer; most improved player awards went to the four fullbacks: Oliver Franklin, Jim Sabitus, Jim Rice and Randy Wittry. Captains of the 1978 team will be Jim Rice, 
Danko had two thefts. It is ' 60 yards. Fassler had 16 rushes interesting to note that Ketman's accounting for 83 yards. He also defense has not been scored upon scored two touchdowns and a all year in interhall play. · two-point conversion. Also out­On offense for Keenan, the stand­i standing were Chuck Gallagher outs were Greg Riehle at quater­who had two receptions for 29 flack who completed four of four for yards and Nick Molinaro who also 
had two receptions for 31 yards_ 
Although St. Eds was frustrated throughout the afternoon on both defense and offense, outstanding performances were turned in by Dan Tranel on defense and Andy Schmidt offensively. 

For the third consecutive year, Keenan captur~d the lnterhall Championship game. This season the North Quaders defeated St. Ed's, 22-0. ' 
Paul Stevenson======================================================================================================================================================================================================= 


The Irish Eye 
::================================================================================================:=:================================== Reflections From Green vilie 
Oh, what a difference two months, hard work and determination can do. Yes, on September 17 many thought the Irish would be lucky to receive a return engagement to the Gator Bowl. But, now things are looking miraculously brighter· as the Irish appear to be headed to the Cotton Bowl if they dtfeat Air Force on Saturday. 
As a result, the Irish will have a ~hot at top-ranked Texas, a contest which will give Notre Dame a shot at returning the MacArthur Bowl to du Lac. Although easier to say than accomplish, the It ,sh will be among a chosen few who will be eligible for the coveted prize if they· can defeat Air Force and Mit ·ni as well as the Longhorns in the Dallas clash. 
But enough about the future, some reminescing about the latest Notre Dame grid battle in Greenville is in order. Well, Clemson was not one nf the top schools in the country as far as hosnit11lity goes.· 
Upon arriving at the university if one had the pleasure of reading The TiJ~er, tl" weekly student newspaper, there were some in resting "facts" about the Irish. For some reaso •r another, the paper referred to the Fighting Iris _s ·'The Golden B-B Heads."-For what purpose, one · nows. In addition the paper made reference · h( fa~'t that the Irish had padded their sehedu with Clemson. However, Notre Dame had a sur .e cm.:ing; this year the Tigers were good and wet oing to give the Irish a tough battle. 
The paper continued to talk ab. •t Notre Dame's "minor league schedule." Well, 1 .ybe the Irish do not have the toughest schedule in t . land, but when games are set 15 years in advance, s hard to predict how good an opponent will he. 
The Irish now have their sc ~ules filled up through 1991, with most of the c -~sts established through 1994. How, can one oo•i::e who the powerhouses will be that far in ......... ·. Several years ago, since the University o. ·ittsht· gh football program was at one of its lowe:-· J; ·t'>, there was a mutual agreement between the _ 'r: departments of Notre Dame and Pittsbu1rgh ..t they : :wuld no longer play one another bec:aus the Pan.:.ers were not representative. 
Now, the defending National Champions play the Irish only one more season. After 1978, Notre Dame is not scheduled to tackle the Panthers in the near future. What seemed to be a good idea years ago, now looks like a very qualiiied C}lponent is being dropped from the schedule. 
The Oemson fans were not of very high quality, throwing debris on the players as -.they left the field. None of the partisan spectators could believe the Tigers lost. The Clemson team had nothing 
"If they're number-one, then we're number-two," 
another gridder stressed. 
After the contest had ended, someone removed 
Notre Dame's 21 points from the scoreboard. 
However they left the Clemson point total on display. 
For an hour after the battle the scoreboard read 
Clemson 17, Notre Dame 0. 
Several of the Clemson supporters in the press box as well as in the stadium were outraged when some of the Notre Dame players lifted their fingers as number-one at the conclusion of the game. One man stated, "Is this what they call big time football; is this class?" Well, many of the goings on at Clemson were not indicative of a class institution. 
As far as the officiating goes, well many can comment on the accuracy. Most of the calls against the Irish were legitimate. However, what was aggravating was the fact that many infractions against the Tigers were not even called. It's funny that the Irish have averag_ed 59 ~ards in penalties this year but were hit with 93 yards worth in Greenvtlle. It's also pretty remarkable that Clemson was only fined ten yards in total penalties. 
But, that all made the win even sweeter. Irish offensive guard Ernie Hughes summed the situation up best when he said, "That's what makes victory the sweetest. When you can overcome adversity and still come from behind to win, that makes victory even greater." 
Yes, that's the sign of a good team. When everything is going against you, to still be able to score demonstrates the degree of intestinal fortitude possessed by the entire team. To be faced with a second down and 31 late in the third quarter, still be able to reach paydirt, that is the sign of a championship team. 
But aside from a championship team, there was also an indication of a championship student body. When the team returned to Michiana Regional Airport, there were numerous fans there to greet them. However, when the Irish gridders returned to campus, the Notre Dame band and 600 students were on hand to welcome their Fighting Irish. 
Notre Dame Head Coach Dan Devine was overwhelmed with the welcome his gridders received when they returned to South Bend Saturday night. Coach Devine expressed his appreciation to the students on behalf of himself, his players and coaches, for the warm welcome they experienced upon returning to Notre Dame. 
Well, things have really shaped up since that dreadful day down in Mississippi. The bowl committees are allowed to announce their bids this weekend. But, the Irish better be ready to shoot down 
,. . . ...., JAACarnavale, BiU Hagerty .and Jim.S.abitus. It should be another great complimentary to say about the. Jtj~h .. "W!! wer~n',t, ~~Air fPJI(<;,1 be~q!ie tit~ ,F,a,lcqns will be trying to.-.. ~ r. Ye&!'for soccer~fNOtle l>ame.bl.J978" _.... '· • .-~ ...... :.-... .-.., ., .. ,:,·:intimidated by Notre Dame,'' one player commentM:' win their last game for retiring Coach Ben Martin. 





