~-----------~-------:-----, 


server 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary'sVol. XII, No. 19 Friday, September 23, 1977 
Committee to examine disciplinary procedures 
by Phll Cackley Senior Staff Reporter 
At i1s first meeting of the year, the Student Life Councii(SLC) ap­proved a motion setting up a seven-member committee to re­view lniversity rules and regula­tions on disciplinary procedures and to draft a proposal which will be presented to the Board of Trustees at its Oct. 21 meeting. 
The motion, proposed by Student Body President Dave Bender, was acceptt:d unanimously by the coun­cil after an earlier contrary motion, put for1:h by Dean of Students James Roemer, had been voted . down. 
Roemer proposed that a six­member committee act as an advisory group to a three-member board, which would have actually drafted the proposal to be submit­ted to the SLC 
The approved motion adds one person to Bender's proposed six­member committee. However, a three-member subcommittee, which will carry out the actual task of drafting the proposal, will report back to the committee before the proposal goes to the SLC. 
Nearly one and one-half hours of discussion preceeded the decision, as the 12 members present at the meeting listened to arguments by Roemer and Bender on the ques­tion and weighed varying aspects of the motions. 
Members on the newly created committee include: Vice President for Student Affairs Bro. Just Paczesny, Fr. Dave Burrell, chair­man of the theology department, Sarah Daugherty, assistant profes­sor of English, Jeanne Swartz, a South Bend Lawyer, Tom Byrne, a senior Government major, Roemer and Bender. 
Serving on the drafting subcom­mitteee are Roemer, Bender and Daugherty. 
The group will review proposals from the Trustees and Administra­tion, as well as from Student Government. 
The accepted motion states that after three meetings of the entire committee, the sub-committee will meet and negotiate the actual language of the final proposal. Then the proposal will be reviewed by the entire committee and sub­mitted to the SLC. This must be done before Oct. 13, so that the council can act on the proposal before the Oct. 21 trustees meet­ing. 
The chieflbjections to Roemer's motion were that it narrowed the group considering proposals and would address only the matters of the Universtiy level disciplinary procedures. Bender wants to 
Sc,gle analyzes blacks in films 
by Jake Morlssey Staff Reporter 

Claiming that "Black performers always answer to the age in which they appear," Donald Bogle, former Ebony magazine staff writer and film lecturer, presented his analysi!; of blacks in American _film last ni~.ht in the Library Audttor­ium. 
Bogle divided black movie roles into five categories: '~Toms," "Coons," "Mulattoes," "Mammies," and "Bucks" and cited e:camples, using slides from past fil:ns, to illustrate his conten­tion thnt blacks have been stereo­typed. 
"Tons," Bogle told the audi­ence, "are good Negroes; they are submissive, agreeable...Christian and ar·~ epitomized by the char­acter of 'Uncle Tom's Cabin'. But the irony is that in the movie, the black was not played by a black, but b) a white. Blacks were thought to be unqualified to act," he said. 
In tte fifties, Bogle continued, Donald Bogle analyzed the role of blacks in American film in the 
the "T:>m " figure lost popularity library Auditorium last night. [Photo by lisa Becker.] 
"Coom;," were charactertzed by Bogle ~lS "the clowns or buffoons. It was "The Jazz Singer"' AI Jolson and the white minstrel at its decadent best,,' Bogle commented. 
liD awarded $1.15 million loan 
Third District Congressman John Brademas yesterday announced that Notre Dame has been awarded a $1.6 million loan by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development to remodel and improve the heating systems in twenty-one residence halls. 
Brad,~mas, who represents the district in Congress which includes Notre Dame and St. Mary's, said that the loan, "wiii allow the 
Univers1ty to install individual dor­mitory room heating controls and rehabilitate the older heating systems in Carroll and St. Joseph Halls." 
''These improvements wiii make the university's heating system more efficient, more comfortable for students and will increase energy conservation on campus,'' the Congressman said. 

and was replaced by an educated, Characters such as Ed sophisticated revolutionary face... "Rochester" Anderson, Willy Best Sidney Poitie[" He eve~. has the and Sammy Davis Jr. fall into this very bt,st tab~ manners. category, he said. 
Ano,:her tmportant _group,· Just as important in black film roles 
was the black tragic heroine, or 
mulatto. Bogle said, "Early in the forties Hollywood got into the tragic mulatto, but it didn't quite work.,, According to Bogle, recent 
attempts by black actresses to try tragedy have not totally succeeded. 
"Diana Ross, in 'Lady Sings the Blues,' did a spectacular job of playing Diana Ross. It was one big elaborate, escapist fantasy." 
America's domestic, or "Mammie,'' was prevalent in the thirties and forties, Bogle said, but is not seen as often intoday'sfilms. The archetypal mammie, Hattie McDaniel, in 'Gone with the Wind' was, in Bogle's words, "an inde­pendent, outspoken woman who never hesitates to speak up. She's the only one who knows all of Scarlett O'Hara's actions." 
Bogle concluded the one hour lecture by commenting on the role of' 'strong, agressive, sexual men-­the "Bucks." Actors such as Jim Brown, Richard Roundtree, Fred Williamson and Ken Norton were put into this category by Bogle because of the .strength they exude on the screen." 
Bogle also noted that despite the stereotyping of blacks in Amer­ican films, there were a few actors who "make a personal statement and have gn~at potential." James Earl Jones, Richard Pryor, Cicely Tyson and Billy D. Williams were all cited by Bogle as "hopes for the 
future." 
consider the entire disciplinary procedure at Notre Dame, at both the hall level and the University level. 
Roemer objected that Bender's goals would be impossible to achieve in the short time left before the trustees meet. "If we try to bite off the moon, the whole proposal will go down the drain," he warned. 
He stated that he had no objection to Bender's original six­man committee (the same mem­bers as above, excluding Daugh­erty), appointed two weeks ago, even though it included a person from "outside the (University) committee. "I will not draft language with that committee,'' he stated, making reference to hi:s experience in labor contract negoti­ations, where he said large groups impede progress. 
Bender pointed out that the SLC has the power to approve his committee as a special SLC com­mittee. There are no stipulations in the SLC charter that members of special committees must be from within the community. He further asserted that University trustee John Schneider, who suggested the committee to Bender at an Aug. 25 meeting, gave Bender the freedom to choose who he wanted. 
"When it comes to drafting language,'' Bender said, "two is ok." But be wanted a broader committee to have final approval of a resolution before it went to the SLC. 
Bender stressed the importance of the questions being dealt with. "What disturbs me is that through­out this whole mess everybody is getting hung up on little technicali­ties .. .if it's easiest and quickest solution we want, three (committee members) is ok. But it's more important than that,'' he said 
The student government pro­posal, he explained, addressesnot only technicalities and procedures in duLac, the student handbook, but other important areas, such as hall life and hall judicial boards. 
Paczesny responded that the mandate from the Trustees was to revise University disciplinary pro­cedures for the upcoming meeting, but that the other areas in duLac to which Bender referred were to be considered at a later date. 
Gary Luchini, North lfUad SLC representative, complained that duLac is always revised in a "piecemeal" fashion and that 1s why the manual is so inconsistent between the various sections. "If we attack the University level, we should revise the whole thing," he urged. 
Bender added that Schneider had said to him that it would be a good idea to make a consistent revision of the disciplinary proce­dures from the hall judicial boards on up. 
"We are not emitting offenses from duLac,'' Bender said, explain­ing the Student Government pro­posal. "All we did was to delegate offenses at either a hall level or a University level." Hall judicial boards would be standardized, he continued. "We are talking about processes, not rules," he said. 
Two offenses Bender mentioned possibly moving to a hall level, in certaincases, were the use of marijauna and parietais. In serious infractions, however, the rector would always have the option to go to the Dean of Students, he stressed. 
Both Daugherty and Fr. James Shilts, assistant professor of physics, questioned whether it would be possible to complete such a large revision in the several weeks remaining before the Board meeting. "Speaking from experi­ence,rewriting would take about two months," Shilts said. These ·comments were echoed by Roemer. "We should zero in on what we can really accomplish by Oct. 15," he emphasized. When considering the use of marijuana or parietals as a hall offense; Roemer said, "There's no way that'll work ...it's impossible to revise l>ll duLac before Oct. 15." Roemer com­plained that he had not yet received a written proposal from Student Government. "How can I say what I'll do without a written proposal," he said. 
Paczesny added that if Student Government was planning to switch parietals or drug rules to a hall level, "I'll fight you all the way to the Trustees." 
Bender responded that Roemer had not yet been given a written resolution because Student Government is not finished re­searching the proposal. He under­pred the amount of preparation 
•dent Government has done on r111::~ ._tter. 
[continued on page 2] 

Effort underway to restructure ND Infirmary Advisory Board 
by Stephen Needles 

Borrowing from a format now in use at Indiana University, an effort is now under way to restructure the Notre Dame Infirmary Advisory Board. Organizer John O'Lear, who served on the board last year, explained, "In the past, it has been more or less a gripe committee. Nothing worthwhile was accom­plished. This year we'd like to develop the program to its fullest potential.'' 
Traditionally, the advisory board has consisted of six hall presidents. 
"Hall presidents simply do not have enough time to devote to the committee in order to make it effective,'' said O'Lear. "There­fore, we would like to open up membership to the entire student body." 
To do this, however, requires an amendment to the Student Govern­ment Constitution. For this pur­pose a Hall Council vote bas beeti scheduled for next week. 
One major change which has already taken place was the acqui­sition of a new name, the Student Health Center. O'Lear said this was important since the term "Infirmary" seemed too imperso­nal. "We want the students to realize that the Health Center is for them and is concerned with their needs," explained O'Lear. 
The newly-christened Student Health Center Advisory Board will concentrate on four immediate goals: 
:t.) Organization of a supple­
· mental medical transportation system, to take some of the load off Security and to ensure transporta­tion in emergency situations. ".Art IU, they have people on stand-by 24 hours a day," said O'Lear. 
2.) Creation of a Student Healtl;, Handbook to inform students of the' services offered on. campus a~d advise them on what to do m certain medical situations. "We expanded.on the ~~alth. sect~on in duLac thts year, satd 0 Lear, "but we'd eventually like to have a publication of our own. IU, for instance, has one of about 50 pages in length." 
3.) Changed in the visiting policy at the Health Center. At present, only members of a patient's hall staff are ~l~o~ed visitation righ~s. 
4.) Rt':tston  of  the  medtcal  
excuse pohcy.  
O'Lear  asserts  that  Health  

C~n_ter officials are more th.an wilhng to ~ooperate an~ work wtth the commtttee to achteve these g~als. ".~ha~ w~ ~eed no~,'_' said 0 Le~r, ar~ tndtvtdu~Is wilhng to contribute ttme and tdeas to the program." Interested ~tudents are urged to contact etther John O'Lear at 3189 or Anne Thompson at 2194. 
~----·-------------~ ---·-. 
the obarver Friday, September 23, 1977 
Discusses British role 
On Campus Today _ ___,_. 
Friday placement day grad program in bus. adm. blue-gold

9am 
rm., morris inn 

12:15 pm lecture "the supreme court's abortion decision" by dr. charles rice, rm. 115 law building 
1 pm wsnd am &40 the jive show, "live from las vegas" starring jivin' j.p.d. 
3:30pm colloquium, "scientific realism & the perceptual worls: further reflections," by prof. wilfred sellers, univ. of pittsburgh, sponsored by phil. dept. mem. lib. lounge, open to public 
4:30pm reilly lecture "allowed and non-allowed electrocy­clic reactions," prof. john i. brauman, sponsored by 
rhem  dept.  rm. 123 nieuland sci. hall  
4:45pm lecture groups." sponsored  "intergral by prof. by math  representations of 1rvmg riener, univ. dept., rm 226 ccmb,  cyclic of il., pubIic  

inVIted 5:15pm mass & dinner at bulla shed pm bible study sponsored by campus crusadP for christ, grace hall pe-nthouse 8 pm recital penelope crawford -harpsichord, sponsored bv '>nlC music dept. little theatre nd; smc students 
free 

9-11 pm naLZ rnatt feeney, steve podry, carl casazza 
aturday 

1:30pm football nd vs. purdue, away 
7:30pm lecture and meeting society for creative anachro­nism, "how to conquer europe on $5 a day" by g. khan rathskeller, Iafortune 
8 pm recital larry palmer-harpsichord, sponsored by smc music dept. 
9-11 pm nazz jules thompson, pianist and impersonator 
10 pm recital "vocal travesty" elizabeth fetherstonbaugh, stapleton lounge sponsored by smc music dept. 
Sunday 

midnight album hour of the week jefferson airplane"surreal­istic pillow", wsnd 640 am 
12:30 pm workshop leadership workshop, sponsored by student activities, lib. aud. & lounge 
3 pm recital harpsichordists, arthur lawrence, bruce gustarson, regina chapel 
7 & 9 pm film "the freshman" by harold lloyd, eng. aud. free admiss 
SU to sponsor free classic film showings 
by Don O'Sullivan 

This semester students will have the opportunity to view six foreign and American film classics at no charge. Student Union is sponsor­ing the films, which will be shown on Sunday evenings at the Engi­neering Audiitorium. 
Harold Lloyd's The Freshman, a comedy of college life and football games, will begin the season on Sept. 25. 
A double feature will be shown Oct. 2: H.G. Wells' Things to Come and Peter Watkins' The War Game. Both films depict the world after a nuclear war. Things to Come. a British film made in 1936, covers the history of one town from 1940to2036. H.G. Wells wrote the screenplay to this science fiction film. 
Watkins also looks into the future as he depicts the struggle of a small English town to survive after an atomic holocaust. This BBC' television special was banned from airing because of its realism. 
Oct. 16--Lon Chaney's Phantom of the Opera will appear. 
Orpheus, Jean Cocteau's de­pication of a modern-times Or­pheus myth will be shown Nov. 6. In this film, a young poet falls in love with the Princess of Death and follows her into the Underworld. 
Shown Nov. 13 will be The Seven Samurai, by Akira Kurosawa in which seven swordsmen protect a Times, Charlie Chaplin's comedy about the probelms of unemploy­ment and automation, will appear 
small  village  from  a  horde  of  
bandits.  
Finally,  on  Nov.  20, Modem  

SLC to meet 
[continued from page 1] 
Paul Rathburn, associate profes­sor of English, opposed the "nar­row" three-member committee Roemer proposed. He praised the "admirable student momentum" which Student Government has generated on the issue and asked that Student government have a chance to present its proposal to the Trustees. 
The SLC will meet next Thursday to consider appointments· to an interim University Judicial Boarcl, that will be in effect until Oct.21. the Appeals Board, the election of a permanent chairman, and a proposal for periodic review of SLC services. 
The Observer Is publlshea Mon­d•y through Frki•Y except during ex•m •nd vecetlon periods. Tile Observer Is published bY the students of Notre D•me •nd S.lnt M•r'f's College. Subscriptions m•y be purchesed tor $20 per ye•r ($10 per semester) from The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre D•me, lndl•n. 46556. Second ct•ss post•ge p81d, Notre D•me, tndl•n•, 46556. . The Observer Is • member of tl'>e AIIOCI8ted Prell. All repro­duction rights •re reserved, 




Ke~nnet considers Market future 
[continued ll'rom page 3] of Lords, Kennet, using the pen name Wayland Young, wrote a
the Common Mar~et, especially 
number of novels and variousPortugal and Greece. '· '.'Though 

political works. He has also written this may initially hurt the Common p;tmphlets on a variety of subjects Market countries, they all seem including defense, disarmament,resolved that this is an inevitable 

environment and multinational 
even." he said. 

companies.Prior to his service in the House Since his political appointment, 
Lt.. (3overnor Orr doubts cha11ge in drinking age 
by Chuck Kaufman 

Indiana's Lieutenant Governor Bob Orr talked with Notre Dame students and area youth last night, expressing opinions in a variety of areas. including the Indiana drink­ing age law. 
In front of a full house at the South Bend Republican headquar­ters, Orr mentioned the fact that although he was personally in favor of a 19 age limit the issue would most probably not pass in the state legislature, where law­makers have felt considerable pub­
. lie opposition to the proposal. Orr spoke on issues of special interest to youth, includin_g student 
Pape~rs collected each Sunday 

A newspaper recycling drive sponsored by Student Government began last week and will take place each Sunday throughout the se­mester. Papers will be collected in each dorm between 9 and 9:30 
p.m. and should be left outside room doors. All newspapers are accepted. 
Anyone interested in assisting in the program should contact their hall presid,ent or John Ryan at 6413 
Scholastic seeks Cul1ture Editor 
Scholastlic Magazine is now ac­cepting applications for the posi­tion of Culture Editor. Applica­tions should be submitted to the Scholastic office on the third floor of LaFortune no later than next Wednesday. For further informa­tion call Kathleen McElroy at 7419 or 6887. 




involvement in politics. He noted that the University had a record turnout of voters during last year's presidential election, and express-­ed the hope that such interest would continue. The Lt. Governor al~o discussed the encouraging chmate for business expansion in Indiana, which resulted in the creatton of approximately 160,000 jobs during his first four years in office. 
People profiles Fr. Hesburgh 
An article. profiling Notre Dame President Fr. Theodore Hesburgh, appears in this week's "Bio" section of People magazine. The title of the feature is "Notre Dame's most durable triple threat: president, priest, and activist." The article, written by Linda Witt, highlights Hesburgh's clerical and international career. 
The People staff Correspondent described the Notre Dame student body as "quiet." "The women wear skirts and bras," Witt noted. "The men dress neatly and keep their hair short.'' 
Kennet has served on many coun­cils which have investigated many topics of concern to the European community. He was Director of the "Europe plus 30" project, set up by the Council and Commission of the European Community in 1974 to recommend how trends in Euro­pean development during the next 30 years can be continuously monitored and forecast. The report of their project was published in November 1976 by the Cambridge University Press as The Futures of Europe. 
After a short question and an­swer session, he concluded by responding that he still thinks that there are good odds taht both Britain and the Common Market will survive the next ten years without much drastic change from today. 
*The Observer 
Night Editor: Bob Brink Asst. Night Editor: Frank KebE layout Staff: Tracy Herman Katie Kerwin Features layout:Drew John Hauer ~ports layout: Smooth Dog 
Typists:  Eileen  Lynch,  Mark  
Rust, mardi Nevin  
..:arly  Morning  Typist:  Rich  
:larizio  
pay Editor: Kate Flynn  

:opy Reader: Bob Veretton i. loan Fremeau Photographer: Lisa Becker 

ST· EDWARD'S HALL JOINS IN SYMPATHY AND MOURNING WITH THE JAMES KEELER FAMILY ON THE DEATH OF THEIR SON PAUL  
HI -Fl ID-NIGHTMADNESS STEREO SCENE SOON!  

,.~~~~~~~..-...~~~~~~~~~ 
I CLUBS AND : 
l ORGANIZATIONS 
lApplications for considerations in l 
t this year's Student Government lBudget can be picked up now in  tI  
tl  the Treasurer's Office  tl  
t  Second floor  t  
1 La Fortune Student Center  I  

1 Deadline for completion l t is Wed. Sept. 28. 
L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 

--~~-·---~~---~---· 
Friday, September 23, 1977 the observer 

. 
-··~~w'"" ...,.*' '*-"·.h # ~... •• .t:. ,~, 
··~· ............_, ~· ·-· 
,.,.,... ....., -;;:,.: .... ""· ··~· . 

British author and politician, Lord Kennet, spoke about Britain's relation to the Common niglht on the twelfth floor of the Library [Photo by Lisa Becker] 
Concerning Britain 
l<ennet discusses Market trade 
by Tony Pace Staff Reporter 

In a lecture entitled "The Future of Britain in the European Com­munitr," Lord Kennet, a noted Britisi1 author and politician, ex­presst'd his belief that both Britian and h·~r relation with the Common Market will endure for at least the next ten years. Kennet made his address last evening to a group of 60 persons on the twelfth floor of the Memorial Library. 
Kennet has been a member of the House of Lords of British Parliament since 1960. 
Ke:rmet began the lecture by highlighting Britain's differences with other 2ommon Market mem­bers. Citing his recent study, he said that Britain does not naturally identify with France, Spain, Italy, Holland and Germany, the original Common Market countries. When Britain joined this group in 1972, along with Denmark and Ireland, !t was because of her economtc needs. 
He stated, "We British basically 

iden1ify with the people of Amer­
ica, Australia, New Zealand and 
Cam.da, not those countries who 
belong to the Common Market. 
This is most likely due to the 
language difference b~cause the 
HE WA~ TO JOIN THE PAGK. 'l.AIMS HE~ ABARRE!. OF FUN. 
KEEP HIM ON TAP 
•r1J. WE t-IAVE AN OPENING 
I 
~.. ~.. 
..-.. .... 

language barrier is the strongest." 
He then pointed out the British's 

public's sentiment toward their 
place in the Market. Though 
Britain joined the Common Market 
in 1972, there was no true test of 
the public's sentiment until a 1974 
referendum on the matter. 
Lord Kennet stated, "By an ·almost two to one margin, the 
British people voted in favor of our 
membership in the Common Mar­
ket. Though the people's feelings 
may have changed some, I still feel 
they are basically in favor of it." 
He said that Britain's extreme 

right and extreme left, in an 
anomalistic politichl union, were 
the only two factions which were 
dead against the Market. But this, 
he said, is still far short from the 
majority of the people. 
"However," he continued, 
"there is something strange about 

this sentiment. Normally, the 
prime minister's cabinet will be in 

agreement on all subjects, as a 
show of strength. On issues of the 
Common Market though, there is a 
constant split. Almost always, 
there will be four or five members 
voting against the Common Market 
interest." 
Overall, Kennet assessed this 

relation as one that was good for 
both Europe and Britain. ''Though some prices, such as food, are up in price," he said, "these prices are not as high as they would be had we remained outside of the Com-. mon Market. This can .be judged simply by comparing today's non­market prices with • .. the. Common Market pri·c:es." 1 ~ 
Kennet saw the interrelation of the futures of European countries as the main benefit of the Common Market. The rich countries would come to the aid of the poor countries, he said. "This," he noted, "will tend to have a steady­ing effect on the whole of Europe. The rate of decline of those such as Britain willl be decreased by this association.'' 
Though the decline of England, or at least the end of its economic expansion, was hinted at by Ken­net, he remained basically optimis­tic about its future. He said, "I'm not sure that the people were any happier during the so-called great­ness of Britain. Now, at least, the poorer people have decent medi­cine, housing and food. We're getting poor and learning to like it. We're taking this with dignity and grace." 
For the future, Kennet looks for the addition of more countries to 
[continued on page 2] 

Our Specialty.: Oven Baked 
APPLE PANCAKES . 
Extra large, using fresh apples ~ & pure sugar cinnamon glaze NEVER SURPASSED!! . U.S. 31 (Dixie\!~Y North) in Roseland 


At least not when you're wearing a Seiko quartz watch. Accurately designed to tell the hour, minute, second and date. Expert crafts­manship combined with individu­ally unique styles, make Seiko quartz watches tops in men's jewelry fashions. Try one on to­day. 
V!!~!fRBEt.!.§:.fS
Dimnonds·.....'Uintchu-.....]eRJtl17J 
South Bent!, Indiana 
New Store Hour'$: EHedive Sept. 1 
Monday 1 0:30 am-7 pm Daily 9:30am-5:15 pm Close Sunday 

PRE GAME SHOW 
Friday, 3 -6pm 120Z. BEERS .35¢ 
michelob  40c  
heineken  7sc  
DRINKS  75!  

.SATURDAY GAMETIME!­1-6pm 120Z. BEERS 35¢ 9-llpm GIMLETS GIN & TONICS 7 & 7's 50¢ 
. ... .-' ~ .... 
-••• ' • ,\ ' ~ • ,J ..: •. ~ ~ •.i 

----~--------·-~ 
the obaarvar Fnday, September 23, 197? 
Homecoming deal offers USC, Steve Miller tickets 
by Paul Julin Troy?" contest, Happy Hours, a movie, a "Hall Decorations" con­
The Student Union has announc­ed that 250 Homecoming ticket 
test with prize money, and tenta­packages will go on sale Monday at · 
tively scheduled are a dining hall meal pertaining to the theme and a
8 a.m. The package includes two gene­surprise attraction. ral admission tickets to the USC 
Orest Deychakiwsy, . Student football game, two tickets to the Union social commissioner, said, Steve Miller concert on Oct. 21, • 'The homecoming dance will be and one set of tickets to the 
different this year from other Student/ Alumni Homecoming 
years. The alumni are invited to Dance. The cost is $40. attend the dance so that they and The ticket sale location will be 
the students can get acquainted posted on the west door of LaFor­
with each other." tune sometime Sunday afternoon. The purpose of the late announce-The Homecoming Committee will ment is to discourage people from be spending much more time to sleeping out all weekend. Tickets put up elaborate decorations and to will be sold on a first-come, make high quality food available," first-serve basis. Only the Student he said. Union sign-up sheet will be valid. A new sound will be featured at The theme for Homecoming the Student/ Alumni Dance, with Week ts "The Fall of Troy." big band and popular music pro­Co-chairmen of the Homecoming vided by Tony Barron and his Committee, Diane Ross and Mike orchestra. The semi-formal dance Kammerdiener, revealed the mid-will be held in the ACC concourse week festivities that are planned. on Oct. 22. Individual dance tickets They are: a "Where is Helen of go on sale early next month. 
: TIMM PARTY STORE : 


It took thr,~e years to come about, but finally the North Dining Hall has a conveyor belt system. [Photo by Lisa Becker. 

Dining hall adds conveyor belt 
by Michael Lewis Staff Reporter 

A new conveyor belt system for busing trays went into effect yes­terday at the north dining hall. Edmund Price, director of food services, said he is "very pleased" with the student support of the new system. · 
The dining hall is now diVided into four rooms. Two large, central rooms use the conveyor system, while the smaller rooms are ser­viced by the tray-cart meth~d. 
''The idea for the belts started about three years ago, but it takes time for ideas to gel and become a reality," Price said. 
He also noted, "The new system makes the rooms much · niore orderly because of th~ absence of tray-carts." . 
However, Ronald Kerver, a four­year worker at the dining hall, expressed displeasure with the n~w system. "It takes a lot longer to get everything done now. A few days ago when the belt stopped working we set up the old. table and finished in about half th time," he said. 


YOU SAY YOU WANT A ROOMFUL OF MUSIC BUT YOU JUST SPENT A FORTUNE ON BOOKS? . 
HOW DOES A $299 Advent;. S4DNY. ,~0~· STER.EO SOUND.? · IMPRESSIVE! · . · 
Our new $300 stereo system is really a spectacular bargain, designed to blow your mind but not your budget. 
The amazing system is built around some incredible loud­speakers from the Advent Corporation, the company that has a reputation for making better and better spe'?Jters for less and less money. 
The Advent 3 speakers are a two way acoustic suspension design whose basic operation Is much like that of Advent's more expensive speaker sys­tems. Its woofer's cone Is free to move over a great distance to push air effectively for good bass response, and It has a heavy and expensive magne­tic structure that permits ex­cellent undlstorted output. A precise cone tweeter assures clear highs with excellent dispersion. 
To drive these little gems, · we've chosen the Sony StR · 1800 receiver. If you're Into FM, the tuner section of the StR 1800 has all the circuitry .· and features you'll. need for drift-free, clear FM reception. 
And If you're inclined to listen to Chicago stations the 
' Sony 1800 receiver will sur­prise you and ,dj,sappolnt the competition. 
The turntable is the now famous BIC 920 ready to play with moulded base and an Audio Technica cartridge. l.t will take good care of your records and get all the sound ·. they have to offer playing after playing. · 
These components would sell separately for $415; we offer. you the complete system for $299. The price Includes assembly and the services only Audio Specialists can offer. 
Come in and enjoy. 
WE NOW STOCK
,AUIJUO SPECIALISTS 
MICROCOMPUTERS
415 Nc,rth Michigan 234-5001 
--------------~~----~--~--~~--~~~----~----------------~~-------­



Where the Laughter Has Gone 
Reverend Robert Griffin 
There was the death of a ninety-two year old woman on Christopher Street this summer. She died during the great heat wave when the temperature showing on . the clock on Manufacturers' Bank on Sixth Aver:ue was 106 degrees. She lived on the sixth floor of a building without an elev~.tor. I've never yet attended a death call in New York in an apartment house where the elevators are running. That can be a nuisance if you're not too swift at climbing stairs. 
The policeman on duty on the ground floor told me.the·number of the apartment. He "'as waiting for the medical examiner to sho\\ up and r~lease the body. He said 
. that the doc might not show up until three-thirty or four o'clock it was only qne-thirty now. I murmured sympathy for the tedium of waiting. the policeman shrugged. "It beats chasing Son of Sam," he said. . Upstairs in the apartment, the old lady Jay on a couch where death had dealt with her ungraciously. Flights of angels may haye been singing her to her rest; but from all I could tell. she had simply worn out ttom the heat. I suspect if she had known death was coming, she would not have simpty·flopped back on the couch with her eyes open, staring at a stain on the ceiling. She had an air of being interrupted, as when a mugger hits you from behind. 
I signed her with the rituals promising resuJTection, then sat down next to her at a kitchen table with her son and daughter-in­law to await the medical examiner. it is ·never polite to notice, when you are visiting the dead, whether or not the place is shabby; yet you can't help-seeing that the television and refrigerator and the kitchen stove and the sink are all crowded into the same room where the old lady musi have slept. ~ere was only one other small room, where a man sat on a bed with his face in his hands; and there was a door 
'leading to the bathroom. . 
"Nlw that the pri'est has come," the daughter-i,n-law said, "Assunta will be happy." I hoped, out of faith.. that something had been stirred in that still body by my ministry with oils. "She was a living saint on ear:th," the daughter-in-law said. "1he priest brought her communion every month." . "She had her novenas," the son said. "She was ·always praying novenas. She was a saint." Sons always canonize their m!>thers, I have noticed, for the benefit of the priest, possibly to reassure the priest he has not wasted his time, climbing up six flights of stairs to give absolution. For the son's sake and for mine, I wished that the gray flesh stretched on the couch could havt: shone with the numbus of inherited 
·glor:{. ' 
"Do you mind if I smoke?" I said. It seemed fridecent to be smoking in the presence of a dead woman only six feet away, but I had nothing else except prayer in my priestly bag of tricks to cheer me up in tl::at oppressive little room. Prayer is, I . thin,, a sign that.all else has failed. There was no problem, because they wanted to smoke too, but hadn't dared to risk the irreverence. 
''We were in Brooklyn," said tlie daughter-in-law. "My husband was on the way to the doctor. himself. The social worker called us. She comes in every morning to give insulin shots to Charlie"-­indicating, with a wave of her hand, that the man in the bedroom was Charlie. "If she'd called five minutes later, we'd been gone· to the doctor. She told us that Assunta was de;ld in the apartment." 
"It was the heat," the son said. "It was the heat that got her. She couldn't bre~Lth.. Old people can't stand the heat." ·. 
"It was definitely the heat," his wife said. "Assunta was a saint, and the heat 
r:S~U~N=D"':"A:":'Y~M~A~S~S~E~S~A~T~S~A~C~R~E~D~H~E~A'!""!!R~T~ 
String tunes 

The Chicago Symphony String Qua::1et will make its ninth annual appearance in connection with the Notre Dame Concert Series at 8:15 
P.M. Monday in the Library Audi­torium. The recital is open to the public at a charge of one dollar. 
The Quartet, now in residence at DePaul University, was formed ten years ago and tours yearly through­out "the United States. 
~ 

5:15 pm Saturday Rev. Robert Griffin, c.s.c. 
9:30am Sunday  Rev. John Fit:~gerald,  c.s.c.  
10 45: am Sunday  Principal Celebran-t ·· Rev. David B. Burrell, c.s.c.  
12:15 pm Sunday  Rev. William 'Toohey, c.s.c.  

Vespers will be at 7:15 pm in the main church. The Celebrant will be Rev. Da\fid B. Burrell, CSC 
got her.'' I wondered if she thought there was some thermostatically-controlled vul­nerability that the holy ones have, render­ing them more mortal on summer days . 
"I wonder," the man said, "if an air co~ditioner would have helped.'' 
"The time comes, you're going to go, " said the daughter-in-Jaw. "What dot~s it .matter, if you're a saint?" 
"Sh.e was a very old woman, wasn't she?" I said. He nodded. "She was ninety-two, and I am sixty," he said. "The old ones tired;'I said, "and they want to sleep. They grow lonely, and they want to go home. Ninety-two can be a tired and lonely age." 
She didn't look ninety-two,'' the daugh­ter-in-law said. "She didn't look a day over seventy." Noticing the difference between seventy and ninety is, for me, like trying to decide between pumpkin pie and squash. Who can tell? "There are grand children and great grandchildren in Flor­ida," she said. 
"How many children are there?" 
"There are three children," the son said. "My, wife and I; we live in Brooklyn. My sister lives in Florida. Charlie there, lived with Mamma. Charlie and Momma never left each other's sight." He yelled into the bedroom: "Charlie, come and meet the priest." 
"Charlie's very slow," he said softly. "He ':Vas born that way, very slow." He went into the bedroom, and putting his arms gently around Charlie, he led him ~;>Ut. "Charlie," he said, "this is the 
·priest." Charlie shook hands, and I could sense he felt threatened by me. It seemed ironic: 
his fear at that moment made my priesthood seem more ominously real to pim than my faith made it seem consolingly real to me. ·I went over to sit on the couch beside his mother. "Momma, Momma," he said, trying to hug her. 
"Charlie, it's all right," said the daughter-in-law, grabbing his hand. "Assunta was a saint, and she's gone to God. The priest even said she's gone home to God, Charlie ... " 
Charlie looked at me, and I could feel the doubt forming in his slow mind. I would have felt obscene, speaking stale, dead words to him as a tranquillizer. I could have mentioned Father, Christ, Spirit: names that have a hum to them like hymns. 
· But what did heaven have to do with this shabby room where a slow-witted man was trying to gather into his arms the andent flesh that had been his mother? I wasn't about to promise when she would caress him again. I wasn't about to explain where her laughter had gone. When I rose to go, the woman said, "Assunta will be happy, now that the priest has come." The son said: "I will walk you to the stairs." Outside the apartment, his final words were, "Do you think an air-condi­tioner would have helped?" "If she was a saint," I said, "what does it matterY I didn't want to make him feel guilty, but I felt he needed to be nudged into an understanding of the ways in which death is a mystery. Downstairs, the policeman was still wait­· ing for the medical examiner. "Could I bring you back a bottle of beer?" I asked him. He grinned a smile that had traces of Limerick. "It could be our little secret, Father?" "Certainly," I said. "Like in the confessional." "No, Father," he. said, "it would wipe me out altogether." I was sorry he said no. I wanted to do something for somebody where .faith wasn't needed to tell me I done something real. God seems so reticent to be seen on Christopher Street. 
*Observer · !!
-&·­

"Features 
WEEKSWORTH 
on the road: 
THE QIDCKEE: Notre Dame's weekend shuttle hits the road Friday night, leaving the main circle at 7:30, 8:00, 8:30, 9:00, 9:30, 10:00, 11:00, 12:00, and 12:30. Stops include The Boar's Head, Shula's the Village Inn pizzeria, Portafino's, Record City, Denny's, Kubiak's, the Heidelberg, Jay's, and the Forum Cinema's which are currently featuring MacArthur and Star Wars. (See listing below.) An all-night pass costs a dollar. 
on campus: 
THE FRESHMAN: Harold Lloyd's antique comedy will be the first of five free films sponsored by the Notre Dame Student Union. The silent classic will be shown at 
7:00 and 9:00P.M. on Sunday night in the Engineering Auditorium. 
THE DAY OF THE JACKAL: Edward Fox stars as "The Jackal," an internationally­known assassin hired to kill deGaulle, in this chilling thriller that manages to generate loads of suspense despite the fact that we already know the outcome of the plot. The movie will be shown on Monday and Tuesday in the Engineering Auditori­um. Times will be posted, and admission is $1. 
ROYAL WEDDING: Thursday and Friday in the Engineerig Auditorium, $1, times to be announced. THE NAZZ: Matt Feeney, Carl Casazza, and Steve Podry will perform tonight. Impressionist Jules Thompson, a veteran of the fabled "gong Show," will take the stage Saturday night. 
on the screen: 
BINGO LONG'S TRAVELLING ALL­STARS AND MOTOR KINGS and CAR WASH A DOUBLE FEATURE* BEGINS a double feature, begins at 7:15 at the Mall Theater. 
AUDREY ROSE the story of a young girl's reincarnation, at 7:00 and 9:30 at Boiler House 1. Robert DeNiro and Liza Minelli star in Martin Scorsese's WWII musical, NEW YORK* NEW YORK* at 6:30 and 9:20 at Boiler House 2. ROCKY. the best picture of 1976, contin­ues at the Colfax. shows are at 7:00 and 9:30. 
Robby Benson portrays a college basket­ball player who finds out a lot of hard truths in ONE ON ONE* showing at 7:30 and 9:30 at the River Park Theater. 
I NEVER PROMISED YOU A ROSE 
GARDEN at the Scottsdale, 7:30 and 9:30. 
Scary SUSPIRIA continues at the State, 
with shows at 7:30 and 9:30. 
YOU LIGHT UP MY LIFE at Town & 
Country 1, 7:45 and 9:45. The last episode 
in the life of Buford Pusser is depicted in 
FINAL CHAPTER: WALKING TALL 
now shoing at 7:30 and 9:30 at Town & . Country 2. 
by david o'keefe 

Gregory Peck plays the title role -in MACARTIIUR now shoing at the Forum 1 at 6:45 and 9:15 . 
STAR WARS continues to draw crowds to the Forum 2. Shows will be at 7:00 and 9:30. 
on the tube: 
COLLEGE FOOTBALL: The Ohio State Buckeyes have a big game with the Oklahoma Sooners scheduled for 12:45 
P.M. on 28 this Saturday. The implications of this game will be enormous in determin­ing a National Championship. Meanwhile, the Irish travel to West Lafayette, where they'll try to revive a season, and a man's career, with a victory over the Purdue Boilermakers. The game will be carried locally by channel 16 beginning at 1:30 P.M. 
BARD TIMES features Charles Bronson as a Depression-era bare-knuckled prizefight­er and James Coburn as his con-manager in this not-too-interesting piece of depress­ing realism. The film is faithful and accurate and creative in its evocation of an unhappy place in an unhappy time. (Saturday, 8:00P.M., 16) 
NFL FOOTBALL: At noon, 16 will carry the Seattle Seahawks' game with the Cincinnati Bengals, surprise losers to the Browns last week. At 1:00, on 22, The St. Louis Cardinals host the impressive­looking Chicago Bears. There's also a big game on 16 at 3:00, when the Raiders and Steelers bump heads in Three Rivers Stadium. 
THAT'S ENTERTAINMENT PART TWO: Ifyou like Hollywood musicals, you'll enjoy this three-hour sequel. Astaire, Kelly, Sinatra, Crosby, Tracy, Hepburn, Grant and Marx are all on the marquee. (Sunday, 7:00P.M.* 22) KILL ME IF YOU CAN stars Alan Aida as Caryl Chessman, a Death Row convict whose crimes, books, and case made him a national figure and made capital punish­ment a national political and moral issue. Aida is excellent. (Sunday, 8:00P.M., 28) 
THE WNGEST YARD: Burt Reynolds portrays a kind of Cool Hand Luke on spikes, as he leads the inmate team against the guard team in a prison football game. (Sunday, 8:00P.M., 28) MONDAY NIGHT FOOTBALL: Pats v.s. the Browns. (8:00, 28) IOXING: Muhammad Ali will try to ~end his Heavyweight title in a sched­
llled 15-round &mie Shavers i16)  bout  with n New York.  hard-hitting (Thursday,  
on tap:  

'nGE'I'ABLE BUDDIES: Bluesman Eddie Shaw and the Wolf Gang play Friday and Saturday night. Also appearing this weekend will be exotic belly dancer Ashada Ouzo. On Tuesday, "Vic's Party." No cover charge, 25c beers, live entertain­ment. 
this frlday and every friday 5:15 mass & supper -­

r 
...8.____ _,t..h.I:e~o~b~s...,e....rvLJUe....r~......-____-..:...Friday, September 23, 1977 Centre Beaubourg in Paris, the minority elderly by the National 
Institute of Contemporary Art in Institute on Aging ofthe Depart­
'Charlie's Place' to open 
St. Mary's Social Commission is presenting the grand opening of "Charlie's Place" in the St. Mary's c.... eshop tonight . Stu­dent entertainment will be featured from 9 p.m. until midnight with snack shop specials planned. 

"'Charlie's Place' will be a nice place. for dates or just for kids to· relax and enjoy the local talent we have around Notre Dame and St. Mary's," commented Karen Bickel, coordinator for "Charlie's Place." 
Plans now call for "Charlie's Place," named after Food Services Director Charles Flaim, to continue on alternate Fridays throughout the year. 
See Chicago 
via South Shore 

The South Shore Recreation, a 
citizens group dedicated to saving 

the South Shore Railroad, is spon­
soring a trip to the benefit Chicago 
concert to be held at Soldiers Field 
on Saturday. 

The train is scheduled to leave 
the South Bend railroad station at 
10:35 a.m. · It will arrive at Roosevelt Road/12th Street at 
12:32 p.m. The concert is at 2 p.m. Tickets are available at the gate for $5.35. 

Students can also take the train to the Cubs-Pirates baseball game. Escorts will take riders to and from events. The train leaves Chicago for South Bend at 5:58 p.m. 
Brauman to give third lecture 
Dr. John I. Brauman, professor of chemistry at Stanford Univer­sity, will deliver the last in his ties of ions in teh gas phase, specifically addressing the topic of "Allowed and Non-Allowed Elec­trocyclic Reactions." 

The lectures delivered by Brau­
man are the year's first Peter C. 
Reilly Lectures. The Reilly lecture 
series honors the memory of the 
late Indianapolis industrialist, and 
is sponsored by the Department of 
Chemistry. 

Later Reilly lecturers will be: Dr. 
Jay K. Kochi, Blough Professor of 
Chemistry at Indiana University, 
Oct. 31, Nov. 2 and 4; Dr. John S. 
Waugh, NOyes Professor of Chem­
istry at M.l.T., Jan. 23, 25, and 27; 
and Dr. Edmond H. Fischer, 
professor of Biochemistry at the 
University of Washington, April 
17, 19 and 21. 

Le named v.p. of advanced studies 
Chau T.M. Le, assistant to the vice president for advanced studies at Notre Dame since 1975, has been named assistant vice president for advanced studies and instruction by University President Rev. Theodore Hesburgh. The appoint­ment is effective immediately. 
Le succeeds John J. FitzGerald, who served in that position from 1973 until he retired in August. A member of the faculty since 1937, FitzGerald was a professor of philosophy. He also served as acting director of the Center for the Study of Man in Contemporary Society for two years. 
A native of South Vietnam, Le was rector of the University of Hue series ofthree lectures at from 1969 uti! he left the country in 
4:30 p.m. in Room 123 of Nieuw­April 1975 just before the fall of land Science Hall. Saigon. He ~Llso had held various 
Brauman will discuss his current positions in Vietnam's Ministry of research on reactions and proper-Education. He was president of the 
Campus Briefs 

-=~~~::>c~)CIC~:::M:XM:I~OCoCXX:)CIOC4:=c~>eo=-c:::r« for Amnesty'' program, including 
Ch.,Jle·s 
(SMC Coffeehouse)

~p Pl. 
Grand Opening 
with1 
Jake Schneider & Bill Carey John Pletzak & Ed Byrnes John Daley 
Fri., Sept. 23 
~ 
9pm -midnight 
f 
free chips & pretzels plus-Snack Bar Special-Giant Cookies 
' ~ 
i 
~ 
' I ~ 
r 
r-·­
327 W. Marion St. South Bend Ind. Phone 232-2277 
Beer Wine Liquor Serving lunch, etc. 11 am to 2 pm 
5 :00 to 12 :00 six da s a week 
f 

A;sociation of Southeast Asian Institutions of Higher Learning, a governing board member of the Regional Institute of Higher Educa­tion and Devdopment, Singapore, and advisor to the Vietnam Nation­al Commission for UNESCO. 
Educated iin England and the United States, Le received the bachelor's and master's degrees in English literature from the Univer­sity of Cambridge and the doctor­ate in English literature and langu­age from the llJniversity of Chicago. 
Art gallery shows 'amne!;ty' posters 
"Artists for Amnesty," a series of art posters created by 15 internationally-known artists to mark "Prisoners of Conscience Year 1977," is on exhibit at the Notre Dame: Art Gallery in O'Shaugnessy Hall. 
Many renowned artists have contributed 1their talents for the benefit of Amnesty International, the human rights group working in more than 100 countries to protect and free prisoners of conscience jailed for their race, religion, or beliefs. 
Mark Hommes and Gil Loescher, local representatives of Amnesty International, have coordinated the display. Orders for the works on exhibit are now being taken through the Notre Dame Art Gal­lery attendant. All proceeds go to the organization. 
A number of leading museums and galleries throughout the world have participated in the "Artists 
the Stedelijk in Amsterdam, the 
: THE LIBRARY~ :
• c. ~ •
: -~-~~.s~ : 
• .re • 
~ LIQUOR STORE ~ 
: WEEKEND SPECIALS: : 
• 

: 5th Riunite Lambrusco
• 

: Qt. of Vodka 
• 

: Fifth of Gin :• Qt. of Schnapps
•
• 

: BEER SPECIALS:
• 
: Falls City
• 
: Old Style
• 
: Strohs
• 
: Busch
• 
: Bud
•
•
•
• 
~ 
•
•
•
•
• 
· London, and the Boston Institute of 
Contemporary Art. 
The Notre Dame Gallery has 
purchased a set of the works for its 
private collection. 
Amnesty International, founded 
in 1961 by Peter Benenson, a 
London attorney, has helped secure 
the release of more than 8,500 
prisoners of conscience since its 
formation. 
Santos named to advisory group 
John Santos, professor of psy­
chology at Notre Dame, has been 
invited to serve on a special 
advisory group for research on 
-
ment of Health, Education and Welfare. 
Santos directs the program in geropsychology here and the ap­plied program in gerontological education, research and services as well as the Mental Health Outreach Program for the Elderly. He also is a member of research and educa­tional advisory groups on minority elderly to the Administration of Aging, the Mental Health of the Aging Division of the National Insitute of Mental Health, and the Asociacion Nacional per Personas Mayores. 


Buy all your Tenn!s needs 
at Discount Prices lo~est prices on racketball, handball, and squash needs 


Mon-Fri 9-6 233-8712 Sat. 9-4 321 S. Notre Dame 
Charter Flight SOUTH BEND to NY 
at XMAS ROUND TRIP $92 DEPARTURE DEC. 22-10 PM RETURN JAN. 15-10 PM 
FULL PAYMENT BY CHECK OR MONEY ORDER WILL BE TAKEN IN LAFORTUNE LOBBY SEPT 21-28, 12-5 PM 
CHEERS!!! ~ •
•
•
•
• 
• 

$1.97 :
•

$3.99 :
•

$3.79 : $3.85 • •
• 
:
• 

$4.49 case :
• 

$4.39 :
• 

$5.49 :
• 

$5.49 :
•

$5.99 : 
•
•
•
• 

••.·••'f'• .•,•t••••~~.•:"".' . .'!".•.•••·~;-.•'"t.•.J.••~.•·•·,._.~·.;•...f.&.J'~J.IM--M ...'-'.,' .J~ .J>.,; M~ •"•'•o.•' '• ,.,. ........:
flt} .• • • • 
···········~~·················~················ 

--------------------------~~~--~,~----~----------------------------------.-----~ 
Friday, September 23, 1977 
the observer 
7 

Lo!gan needs more students due to state budget cutback 
by Jerry Perez 

Jack. Greeley, administrative assistant of Logan Center for the Retarded, said yesterday that the Center will rely even more heavily upon tht: · student volunteer pro­gram as a result of Monday's announcement by the governor's Budget Committee of a cutback of funds for Logan and similar state­wide agencies. 
The consequences of such a cutback would include the laying­off of 30 to 35 Logan staff members and the cutting-down of preschool, adult and recreational programs. The Saturday morning ND-SMC volunteer sessions, part of the recreational program, will also suffer the loss of several Logan staff members. 
When asked exactly how the cutback would affect the Saturday morning sessions, Greeley foresaw 
Chess Club wins; to .hold tourney 
The Notre Dame Chess Club, which won a match against South Bend la:;;t week by a score of 11 to 6, will hold a tournament tomorrow in Room 325 of the Math and Computer Building at 9 a.m. Registration is at 8 a.m. 
The fi.rst prize is $100, with other prizes totalling $4(>() more. This includes a $40 pri·~e for the best score by player!! who have never taken part in a tournament before. 
The Chess Club is also planning to send a team to Florida for the Intercollegiate competition. For further information, call 234-9684. 
...----~----------------,.------------------­
NOTICE 

Gay Gommunity at N.D. Guida to N.D./~i.B. $1 Pandora·~ or Box 206 N.D. 
Gay CtJmmunitY at N.D. lnfolina 8870 Fri. and Sut. 10..12 p.m. 
Cheap Sakta M-W·F 12-1 Free skate rental .75 snack bar 
Quickie Bus repaired and will run this Fridav night Sept. 23 so take the Quickie and have a great time! 
Neat accurate typing of term papers, manuscripts Call: 287-5162 
BIG Football Weekender Party Campus­view Rec. room Saturday 8-2 20 kegs everyone invited. 
Accurate, Fast Typing Mrs. Donoho 232-0746 Hours BAM to 6PM I 
lnter4iewing and testing candidates to become commissioned officers in the Unitud States Marine Corps-for an appointment contact the Selection Team in La Fortune September 20-23, 9:00 AM to 4:JOPM. 
FOR RENT 

Two frunished bedrooms for rent. country hou!;e, 10 minutes from' Notre Dame. Share Living quarters with two other students. 277-3604 
LOST AND FOUND 

Lost: umbrella· brown and off-white Call Joh~ 1848 (around Midnite( 
Lost: blue backpack probably in Stepan Certer lot. Please return to 524 Cresant Ave. or Observer Office. Reward 234·0439 
LOST: one SMC class ring, initials CFH, '78 Reward. 4-5143 Cathy. 
Found: on sidewalk 1976 Holy Cross preparatory class ring. Call Denise 4-5402 
Found: set of keys in Observer Office. Come to claim. 
Lost a round decorative pin, between Walsh and Farley and Farley and the North Dining Hall. 
Lo:;t: pair of brown glasses. Lost in South Dinig Hall on 9/Bin Call Kinny at 232-9140 
an even greater reliance on student participaticm and support. "The volunteers have always been a tremendous strength to the cen­ter," he said. "They are a tremendous group of people." 
Greeley explained that the Indiana General Assembly's origi­nal appropriation of $1.4 million of state and federal funds to Logan Center, expected to continue into next June, will be cut in half. 
Logan Center serves 300 to 400 area handicapped daily. , The overall result of Monday's deci­sion, according to Greeley, would be the cutting off of services to about 100 of these people. "We'd simply have to send them home," explained Greeley. 
Logan officials are hoping that the community will aid them their efforts to reverse the decision. 
Their wish is that the General Assembly reinstate all of the funds originally allocated. "All we're asking for is what we were pro­mised in the beginning," Greeley stated. 
Greeley commented that South Bend is already responding Logan's appeal. He expressed the support of the Chamber of Com­merce and many concerned parents 
Lawyers for Life presents Rice talk 
Notre Dame Lawyers for Life will present a talk by Charles Rice of the Notre Dame Law School on a constitutionalanalysis of Supreme Court's abortion deci­sions and the proposed Human Life 
Amendment  today  at 12:15  
p.m.  in  Room  115 of  the  
Building .  

WANTED 

Wanted Enterprising instructor or stu· dent to sell Christmas and Spring Break vacation trip Group Travel ASsosclates Inc. 202 [. ion, Elgin 11.60120 (312) 697-8855 
NEED TV URDUE TICKETS AND/ OR RIDE 'AT 8515 
Need $$$-l 2 GA. USC tix Call Frank 2n-4, 
ENTERPRI5 N.D. ALUM LOOKING TO EMPLOY r URDY STUDENTS FOR OUTDOOR VI ;~-lK. WORK DURING YOUR FREE lv10RN NGS OR AFTER1 NOONS TO EAR~1 $$ FOR THOSE WEEK-ENDS AHL . D. FOR INFO CALL 2n-2234, Man ri. after 7 p.m. 
Need 4 G.A. tix to ~~.chigan State. Call steve 8610 
Need 6G.A. tickets to M.S.U. $Call Tony 1610 
Need 2 GA's for Michigan State. Colin, 8689 
Wanted 2 GA tickets for Mich State. Will pay $ $ Call Meg 4-4046 
Desperately need 2 Purdue tickets. Call Mike 3119 
GA's and Stud. for USC game $$$$ Mick 2743 
Needed: 1-4 tix for Army Game. Call Maria 1318 
WANTED: 10-20 G.A. tickets to any home game. Will pay any$$$ Call 1212 or 1197 Ask for Bob 
Will trade COORS and/or $$$ for one Michigan State ticket. Kevin 283-1582 
Need four GA tix USC preferably together. Call Rick 8688 
NEED Help Part time must be willing to work weekends and holidays. Prefer local student but will consider others. Forum Cinema 1 mile north of N.D.camp1•s vii 
U.S. 31 morht. See Mr. Randazzo evenings or weekends. 277-1371 
2 Purdue tix Call 1057 
Please help! Need 3 tickets for Georgia Tech. CAll Judy 7375 or Nancy 7414 
I'll pay extra for good GA Mich. State Tix -Joan 1280 
'NEED V211A G.A. tickets to Mich. St., Navy or Georgia Tech games. Will pay top $. Call Pat 83n or 8378 
d 2 ·d ft USC t H rtf d Ct
Nee n es a er o a or . Marybeth 6Bn 
and citizens. 
Jeanne Conboy, co-chairman for the ND-SMC Council for the 'Retar­ded, remarked that the cutback "is going to set us back years." According to her, other Logan­sponsored volunteer activities such as basketball, bowling and class­room work are: also jeopardized by the Budget Committee's ruling. 
Conboy expressed the Council's intention to conduct a massive letter writing campaign in an effort to recover Logan's funds. Students will be asked to write Gov, Bowen and Indiana state representatives expressing their dissatisfaction with the decision. · 
classifieds classifieds 
CLASSIFIEDS 
classifieds classifieds
1 

1 classifieds 
~------··-•'-liili.L~----J
MAKE A Gl RL HAPPY ! Sell me four GA 
tickets to USC. Also interested in 
purchasing Michigan State GA tickets. 
Great money. Carol 8983 
Wanted: Two tickets to Michigan St<.ie game 291-2079 
BIG MONEY FOR 4 MICH STATE GA. TIX CALL .IACOB 8720 
Wanted: 2 USC TIX* WilL PAY BIG BUCKS. RON 8711 
Desperately need USC tickets-Call 4-4n4 
Desperately need up to 4 Georgia Tech tickets. Call 7912 
desperately need one U.S.C. G.A. or STUDENT TICKET. Wilt pay or trade. Call George or Matt 3349 
Need good but inexpensive stero. Call Mike 1935 
WANTED: Used~~ mm. camera in good condition. Japr Jse makes ok. Chris 2n-3604 or 27 ~ 3895 
Need 2 G.A. USC tickets. Will pay$$$ Call John at 1170 
Need 2 G A tickets to Michigan State. Call Mike 1170 
Despera+, ·i need 2GA tix to Mich State. Please "' I Russ at 8772 
Want ;;c tickets, will pay premium. Call rect 714-498-3000 
"ART-TIME must be willing to work 'F3kends. See Mr. Randazzo Foru 1&11 .inema 5:~709 U.S. 31 North 
BIG MONEY MURF needs USC tickets. Call 234-8858 anytime. 
FOR SALE 

BIG BONANZA SALE 1. Olympus 28mm f3.5 Zuiko lens fits all om-1 and om-z cameras, $100. 2. Azuki 10 speed bicycle Marauder rims, Ideal sadlle, $90. 3. Television, 19. in. B&W perfect picture, $60. 4. Bunch of photo stuff, filters bulk film loaders, best offer. Call John J. Smith at 8315 
_ 

-
I~---------------,
LET'S \
I GET ACQUAINTED I 
I COUPON! 96 1
.I one per customer per visit ¢ 1
Iconey dog french fries large root beer I 
thru Seot. 25 1977 I
L 

I----------------~
'Do&n Suds~ I 
I We make a lot of things better. I
I I
Texas Burger • Charco Burger·• Coney Dog • Tenderloin o \ southab~~~i ~~~~n&ch;dison I 
PERSONALS 

PCM 
You're a Penny to every one else but a quarter in our room!Happy Belated Birthday 
The Teenagers 

HAPPY BIRTHDAY FITZ! Marylou, Fran Barb, Martha, Karen (such popularity) 
HAPPY 20thMONICA! Make her a woman BIG BOYS! 
d, Do you like it presto or legato? Hammer 
THE 24thiS THE KID'S 21st! HAPPY BIRTHDAY* KEVIN ZIEMER* Stoneman 
MONICA FRANCES SMITH* 
Happy Birthday! It's been a rough 2 years but we're gonna make it. "'lessons learned are like Bridges burned ..." 
LOve, 
Dan 

Dear Breakfast Club members-Brian, Brian, Michael and others, 
All conversations have been recorded and will be used against yo$ Keep talking. Brian-Is she really abrickhouse? 
Barb 

Mare II South Bend isn't Greensburg, Notre Dame's no Penn state. Still, you're "simply marvelous" So we hope your day is really great! Happy B-day! 
MB* CZ* M&M 

PUFMERKSAM! SMC OKTOBERFEST IS COMING ... 
T. Dick & Katie, 
Happy 20th Paula 
Monique, Bon Anniversaire! Je te manquera mais il etait ecrit que je reviens. Eileen 
To Spaz, Happy Happy Birthday Birthday! ! let's celebrate royally, Maybe we'll remember everything this weekend. 
Love your roomies, Amy and C.B. 

p.s. Can't wait till your 30th. We'll meet you at the Club. -C. B. 
2nd floor Sorin, Hey guys, I love you all. Rebecca 
Happy B-day Hairy Kevin Young
Love MOther 

P.S. Don't get drunk. 
Schenck! Hurry and wish Bill Schenck a Happy 27th. Have a "peachy" day. Bill 
WATCH OUT MICHIGAN! Celeste is legal. Happy 18th Birthday, Celeste!! LOve, Tab and lJC 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY MAMOO FROM YER KIDZ BITSY AND GEORGIE 
Kathy, Colleen, Kathy, Maureen, Mar­garit, Jose, Hugh, John, Jim, Mike, Bob, Ken, and Bob, 
You are all the GREATEST! Thanks bunches. It was so much FUUN! Pattye 
Rent the Rowing Club bus. Reasonable rates 24 passenger Rob 8922 
--------------------· 
Attention: Jock in 29 Pangborn and Pennsylvania Pinto (BoB-310)--You can 
consider Regina! SNOBS  yourselves  OFF  LIMITS at  
Regardl,  

Your turnpike budcfes 

(P.S. You don't move very fast ON the road or of$) 
Attention: Steve, Terry, Doug and Pete, We still love you. Get Psyched, we are! Lyons Football 
Dear Pat and John, This is your first personal from your first female companionship. 
Mark Otis Hinien: We love you. -The on-campus group--Barb, Anita, Jenni, Annie. 
P.S. This is the personal you did not want. 
"CAMPUS MINISTRY WEST --Offices ground gloor Badin--student operated 
6:30 -midnight study/ socialize Sunday thru Thursday. ...; .. 
Monica Smith, Happy 20th , think about it. Bid 
'Monica, Can't wait until next weekend. Happy Birthday, Jeff 
Monica-Indulge yourself in slef-flagellation on your 20th. Sister Mary Innocent 
DONALD CHARLES NOKES* JR. Good luck, Sunday in Chicago! We're rooting for ya! 
Hay Clara, Don't forget us ·you're our last hope for mail! Hope it all works out. Love, All of us 
._••••••==•======••-L---=---------=--·•=••••••••••====•...L•_....••illhil..._•w•w••-••-..,...--··--........~------­

the observer Friday, September 23, 1977
8

-
Irish seek rebound against Purdue 
by Tony Pace Sportswrfter 
Trying to recover from last Saturday's loss to Mississippi, the Notre Dame football team journeys to West Lafayette, Ind. this Satur­day to take on the Boilermakers of 
Purdue. While the two teams have identi­cal 1-1 records, their styles of play are vastly different. Notre Dame 
possesses a ground oriented attack which has helped the Irish to score 32 points in their first two contests. 
· · 
Purdue, however, ts a pass orten­
ted team which has rung up 59 
points in their first two games, 44 of these points came last week against Ohio University. 
The player who has orchestrated Purdue's fine offensive perfor­mance thus far is freshman quar­terback Mark Herrmann. The 6-5, 

180 pound phenom has hit on 43 of 68 passes a 63 percent completion percentage, for 621 yards. These statistics place him atop the Big Ten in passing on total offense after two weeks of play. 
Jim Young, in his first season as head coach at Purdue, is pleased "ith Herrmann's development. "Herrmann," he said, "is a natu­rally gifted freshman. It seems as though everything has already been said about him. He had a great day against Ohio." 
Herrmann can throw to a fine trio of receivers in senior split end Reggie Arnold, sophomore flanker Raymond Smith and senior tight Mark Herrman will be taking over the controls for graduated quarterback, Mark Vitali this 
tJa'1't~;ti 10  ~~:  
~  •.J  ·  
) .•:~ :: ~ ~­r., ~-.· #'"!:.. ~T.~ 1.• ..• , .;~  
ff~· ~  :.J~F­ 
.:~.. ~  ,"..-£{  
:~~':·. f~~~.l,  .  ~  ,  
..-.,..,...-:.: -~ -~ · •. 1;t.,_;·-v (I ' ._'\ • , , •,. . ') .., . ~:r:'t.., "­• .:~ -~ r_. ·r:: . \;... ;,~_•C\ -~ •• ~ ' "'::.,' · • ~'· ;.... • ·t•~ . ··­~~ . ~ .. t't,'>t.' ,' ., ... , .,." /• .· "'iLl.:·,, ~ ~ .io. ' • \;; • '.._ .. ~-. . ~"­<;• a ~ ;,;<\ • '"!!""..y_"'­"' 1·-­i ' ~ ~  ~.....  
.  41  ~·  ~~  
.•-....  
::_\  
..  

year against thelrish ,in Ross-Ade Stadium. 
end Tim Eubank. Already this he said, "we think of aggressive all-time leading tackler. For· him season, Arnold has caught 13 football. We'll be ready for them this game has special significance. passes and Smith has latched on to though. 11 thi~k we're capable of "Coming from South Bend," said 
11. Eubank, a 6-7 240 pounder who containing them." Motts, "this is a very special game blocks well, has caught four. Motts, a 6-3, 223 sophomore, is for me. I grew up wanting to play 
The Boilermaker running game second on the team in tackles with against Notre Dame. It's not a has felt the loss of Scott Dierking, 18 solos and ten nssists. He is also question of getting ready for them; who is now a New York Jet. For a South Bend nat1ve. He attended I've been doing that for 20 years." this week's game, Young will use a Marian High School and he is their Other top Purdue defenders are "two fullback" backfield with in-
middle guard Roger Ruwe, defen­sive end Lee Larkins and defensive back Rock Supan. On the Irish side. of the ledger, 

the starting -lineup should be similar to those of the past two weeks, the only exceptions will be because of injuries. Among the Notre Dame wounded are Willie Fry, Mike Calhoun and Vagas Ferguson. Fry has a sprained foot and Ferguson has a sprained ankle. 
. 
These injuries were received in last Saturday's game at Mississippi and both players are questionable
· c lh

for tomorrow's game. a oun has been plagued ·by chronic back problems throughout the season.· Besides the normal rivalry invoi­. ved in any college football series, this game is for the Shillelagh. 
This trophy, donated by the late Joe McLaughlin, a merchant sea­man and Irish fan who brought the 
club from Ireland, goes annually to the winner of the encounter. This· is the 21st year of the award.. Though each team has won it ten times, the Irish have captured it in six of the last seven meetings. Tomorrow's kick-off is slated for 
1:30 EST in Ross-Ade Stadium and a sellout crowd of 69,200 is expected. The game will be televised locally by WNDU-TV. 
cumbent John Skibinski and his former backup, Mike Brown, alter­nating between the tailback and 

Hel~rmann prepared for ND battle 
fullback slots. Purdue has been limited to 225 yards on 81 rushes West Lafayette, Ind. ·[AP]· Notre Dame Coach Dan Devine "He gives the impression that he 
-----------------, this season. That is a paltry 2.8 Last spring, a stringbean high whose 11th-ranked Irish play at is completely imperturbable, which 
~ 
' 
I 
SP.orts 
NEWS 
Irish nine play 

The Notre Dame baseball team will open a 12-game fall schedule today at Kline Field. The Irish will face Illinois State in a twinbill beginning at 1:30 p.m. 
Harriers compete 
The Fighting Irish cross country team will play host to Michigan State in a five mile meet today at 4 
p.m. on Burke Memorial Golf Course. 
WSND airs game 

Tomorrow's clash between Notre Dame and Purdue will be aired on WSND, 640 on the A.M. dial. The contest will be broadcasted by Ted Robinson and John Stenson, with coverage beginning at 1:20 p.m. 
Sports talk 
This week on Speaking of Sports, Jeff Jeffers, WNDU sportscaster, will be the special guest. The talk' show is hosted by Ted Robinson and Paul Hess, and can be heard on WSND A.M. 
FCA gathering 

The Notre Dame and St. Mary's chapters of the Fellowship of Christian Athletes (FCA) have scheduled a meeting for Wednes­day, September 28, 1977. The meeting will be held in Room 124 of Hayes-Healy Center and will start 1 at 7:30p.m. . 
FCA is a non-denominational ' organization which has enjoyed much success in helping athletes an coaches who desire to live richer and fuller Christian lives. Mark Wurfel is captain of the Notre Dame chapter while Mary Piel­sticker serves as Captain of the St. Mary's group. Otherofficers are to be elected at an October meeting. 
At the present time, FCA is I seeking members and, especially,1 huddle leaders. Huddles are presently organized and operating in Dillon, Morrisey, Holy Cross and on the St. Mary's campus. 
Anybody who is interested in joining FCA or seeking more information about the organization is welcome to attend the September 28 meeting. 
yards per carry. school football player named Mark Purdue on Saturday and will be is one of the requisites a young 
Purdue employs a 5-2-4 defen-Herrmann turned down Notre Herrmann's stiffest challenge so man must have to be a great sive alignment which is headed by Dame because he felt the Irish far, recruited him relentlessly. quarterback.'' linebackers Fred Arrington and already had too many good quarter-And he knows he let a prize Herrmann, the only Indiana high Kevin Motts. backs. package slip through his fingers. school player ever named first 
Arrington, a 6-2, 220 senior, So he went to Purdue, and after "He certainly is impressive, not team All-state quarterback two leads the team with 23 solo tackles two college' games under his belt, only in throwing the ball, which he years in a row by the Associated and ten assists. He is looking the 6-foot-S freshman from Carmel, does extremely well," Devine said, Press, said he chose .Purdue over forward to tomorrow's struggle. Ind., is· S(~cond in the nation in "but in the amount of poise he Notre Dame because he likes to "When we think of Notre Dame," passing and third in total offense. shows for a freshman." pass the ball. 
Paul Stevenson·=========================================:====:========================================================================================================================================:=========================================================================================================:=== 
The Irish Eye 
:====:==::.-::=======:=:========:=========================================================================================================================:==========:===:====:=:===:===:=:::::::::::;::===========================:====================::=:=============:===========::========::============Football Picks 
Last Saturday proved to be another day of upsets as the Irish were shocked by Mississippi in Jackson. Meanwhile,_ Alabama dropped a thriller to the Cornhuskers and Georgia fell to Clemson. 
For any school to survive the season undefeated they will truly have to be a sensational football team. The third and fourth rated teams in the country, Oklahoma and Ohio State, respectively,· will compete on the Buckeye's home turf tomorrow. Thus, one of those two teams will lose their superior rating. 
But, the contest in Columbus is not the only grt~at game expected to be played on the gridiron tomorrow. There is another full slate of competition and numerous upsets looming in the background. So, with the aid of Ray O'Brien, here are the Irish Eye's picks for this week's college gridiron play. Notre Dame vs. Purdue: Boilemaker fans are going crazy iu West Lafeyette. Thet feel they have a quarterback that can do it all. This signal caller turns a fair squad into a competitive team. Mark Herrmann, the Boilermaker quarterback, has completed 43 of 68 passes so far this season for 621 yards. That yardage exceeds that of the entire Notre Dame team in their first two outings. Meanwhile, the Irish have to pull themselves together after being upset by the Rebels last weekend. The Irish have the potential and tomorrow will give them the opportunity to prove it in front of69,200 fans at Ross-Ade Stadium. This game will be a battle if Herrmann has time to throw, but the Irish will start their comeback with a victory over the Boilemakers by six. O'Brien backs the Irish by 9. Penn State vs. Maryland: The Nittany Lions have won two big games to open their season and rocket them to fifth place ranking in both the AP and UPI polls. Meanwhile, Maryland was humbled last weekend by West Virginia. The Terapins will be trying to bounce back, but unless the Lions are confident with their 2-0 ledger, Joe Paterno and company should put Maryland to rest. So, give the contest to Penn State by 14. O'Brien also follows the Lions by 7. · Michigan vs. Navy: Oh, wouldn't it be great to see the Middies shock the Wolverines in Ann Arbor? Last year, Michigan sunk the Navy by a mere 70-14. The Wolverines may not tally as many points, but they should easily handle Coach George Welsh's Midshipmen.. Thus, the game will go in favor of the Wolverines by 20. O'Brien backs Michigan by 17. Alabama vs. Vanderbilt: This game would have be,en a great upset if the Crimson Tide had not lost to Nebraska last weeke111d. The Commodores almost pulled one over on Oklahoma two weeks ago, before bowing to the Sooners, 25-23. This will be the first conference game for VanderbiJit, however, they'll just have to be satisfied with a loss. The Tide will be on the comeback trail as I they should roll past the Commodores by 17. O'Brien goes with Alabama ! by 9. Yale vs. Connecticut: The Bulldogs edged Brown last Saturday, 10-9. 
That should be their biggest threat of the season. The Huskies finished 2-9 last year and probably won't be vastly improved this season. The Bulldogs should satisfy their home crowd as they capture this clash by 12. 0' Brien follows Yale by 9. 1 Clemson vs.Ga. Tech:These two teams tied one another last year at 24. The tigers upset Georgia last weekend, while the Yellpw jackets downed Lou Saban's Miami squad. Georgia Tech will have the added advantage 
of playing at home and an added advantage if the Tigers are still reflecting 
on last week's upset. So, give the matchup to the Yellowjackets by 6. 
O'Brien goes with Clemson by 4. 

Florida vs. Mississippi State: This battle will be played in Jackson, the 
same stadium where the Irish bowed to Mississippi. The Bulldogs are a 
powerhouse, one of the first is Mississppi State's history. Last season, the 
Bulldogs won nine contests. That was only the second time in the school's 
history in which this feat was accomplished. Mississippi State is rated 
number 12 in AP, right behind the Irish. The Gators should not pose any 
threat to the Bulldogs as the Bulldog" will capture the game by 14. 
O'Brien goes with Mississippi State by 6. 
Georgia vs. South Carolina: The G11mecocks were downed by Georgia last year by a 20-12 mark. This year, the tale could be different. The contest will be held in South Carolina and the Bulldogs are coming off a loss of 7-6 at the hands of Clemson. It will be difficult for Georgia to make a comeback on the Gamecocks home field. Although South Carolina should capture the battle, the score will be close. So, give the contest to the Gamecocks by 3. O'Brien backs South Carolina by 6. 'Ohio State vs. Oklahoma: This has to be the highlight of the weekend, if not the whole year. These are two teams I do not admire and I would . really like to see both lose. However, I have to go with the one I'd like to see lose more, the Buckeyes. Ohio State was only mediocre in their opener against Miami, while Oklahoma just eeked past Vanderbilt. In their second week of competition, the Sooners wallopped Utah, while the Buckeyes thrashed Minnesota. This game will be close but the Sooner's offense is more imaginative and versatile. Even though the game is in Columbus, Oklahoma should capture the matchup by 6. O'Brien backs the Sooners by 3. Southern CaJ vs. Texas Christian: This game should be quite a laugh. At least it helps me get one more game prediction right every weekend. The Horn Frogs are pretty sad, and with a team name like that, I would be too. USC only beat Oregon State 17-10 last weekend and will have to really run up the score if they expect to gain any ground on number one ranked Michigan. Give this contest to the Trojans as they leap past the Frogs by 
40. O'Brien goes with USC by 24. Texas A&M vs. Texas Tech: The Aggies are rated sixth in AP, while the Red Raiders are figured at seventh. This will be a battle which will match the expectations of the Ohio State and Oklahoma contest. This game will be played in Lubbock, but the Aggies should overcome the partisan ' 
crowd. A&M will make up for their loss to the Red Raiders last year, as they down Tech by 9. O'Brien backs Tech by 3. Upset of the Week: 
Missouri vs. California: The Golden Bears are sitting with a 2-0 season record thus far, having defeated Tennessee in their opener and Air Force last weekend. Missouri has lost to USC and Illinois, however, they will catch California off-gaurd, when the Golden Bears enter Columbia. This battle will go to the Tigers by 6. O'Brien follows California by 9. Last week's Record: Eleven correct, four wrong for 73 percent. Guest picker, Tim Bourret, had ten right and five incorrect for 66 percent. Overall: Twenty-two correct, and five wron~ for 82 percent. 





