
server 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's 
Monday, April 4, 1977

Vol. XI, No. 107 
SBP Bender announces Student Gov't cabinet 
byTomByme 
Campus Editor 

Student Body President Dave Bender assumed office on Friday and announced the names of the Student Government cabinet of­ficers for his upcoming term. 
Bender indicated that the new cabinet would emphasi~e close cooperation and coordination be­tween all departments, and would meet biweekly to ensure that all officers are well informed. In addition, cabinet members will submit brief written summeries of their work between each meeting. 
Bender noted that the new cabinet represented many different areas on campus and remarked, "they're not all from one group." Student Body Vice-president Tom Soma added that the cabinet has "great balance." 
In total, 17 appointees were announced by Bender, including three administrative assistants. Two new positions were created, one dealing with problems concern­ing coeducation and another focus­ing on social justice issues, both on and off campus. 
Executive Coordinator 

The person primarily responsible for coordinating the efforts of Student Government will be soph­:>more Joe Gill, who will serve as executive coordinator. Gill, Ben­der's campaign manager during the election will be assigned with keeping all areas of the organ­!::~f.;Ju aware of current goals and priorities. 
According to Gill, his role will be to remove much of the admin­istrative burden that in the past has been assumed by the Student Body President and Vice-Pres­ident. Bender described Gill's job as "seeing all the cabinet positions are working toward the same goal." 
Press Secretary 

Mary McCormick will serve as Student Government Press Sec­retary, responsible for "all pub­licity coming out of Student Gov­ernment, "including the pub­lication of a biweekly Student Governmnet newsletter. While plans for distribution of the news-
Mike 
the 
letter are not final, Bender in­dicated that the release will prob­ably be posted in the halls. 
''The letter will be a summary of what we're doing," said Bender, who added that the newsletter could also function as a call for student support when needed. 
McCormick, a junior, was sec­retary of the Hall Presidents Coun­cil for the past year. 
Treasurer 

Replacing Eric Ryan as Treas­urer will be Pete Tobben, who has worked as an assistant to Ryan this year. The main duty of the Treasurer is to monitor all expen~ ditures by Student Government and Student Union. "There will be a few changes and a bit tighter control," remarked Tobben. 
"We'd like to utilize Pete as input," commented Bender. "We need some kind of input from a financial mind." 
Judicial Coordinator 
The position of Student Govern­ment Judicial Coordinator will be shared by John Talbot and Steve Dane, reflecting the high priority Bender has assigned to problems involving student discipline. 
"We think that the jucicial coordinators are two of the most important positions because of the whole issue of student rights or lack of them," said Bender. "Essentially, the problem lies in the ambiguity of du Lac. In order to work toward a more equitable system, we'd like to change duLac and improve the j-boards in each hall." 
To . accomplish these objectives the duties of judicial coordinator will be divided between Dane and Talbot. According to Bender, Dane will be assigned with the task of developing a standardized judicial board for each hall. 
"The administration doesn't feel 
the j-boards have credibility be­
cause they're so different in each 
hall," said Bender, citing the need 
for uniform procedures regarding 
j-boards. Dane, a junior, will also 
direct efforts to rewrite the dis­
ciplinary code found in du Lac, and 
to draft a "student bill of rights." 
Bender voiced his concern over 
violations of the rights of students, 
as he turns 
with relations between off-campus students and the community.''

STUDENT GOVERNMENT CABINET '77-'78 Bender cited the recent complaints by the city board of safety concern­
Executive Coordinator Joe Gill­ing litter problem around local bars as an example of an area needingJudicial Coordinators John Talbot · attention by Student Government. 
Steve Dane 
Bender indicated that Student Government intends to arrange

Press Secretary Mary McCormick meetings with the bar owners and local officials to resolve the prob­Treasurer Pete Tobben lem. He added that Ungashick will also attempt to assist studentsOff-campus Commissioner Joe Ungashick having difficulties involving tenant­landlord relationships, and will be Academic Commis .oner Florencean Strigle responsible for the coordination of the efforts of Student Govern­Alumni Representative Patty Dondanville ment with various authorities work­ing for off-campus students, suchCo-ex Commissioner Harold Jara as the office of Off-campus Hous­ing.
Student Lobby Mark Klein Academic Commissioner 
Special Projects Jim Siefert Willy Saad 
The post of Student Government Academic Commissioner will be

Interracial/ Social Concerns Valerie Hardy assumed by Florencean Strigle, who will focus principally on the
Coeducation Anne Thompson development of a tutoring program for undergraduates. 
"After freshman year, there's particularly privacy, in student little academic help here," com­disciplinary actions. Off Campus Commissioner mented Bender. "People need 
Talbot, a candidate for Student help in subjects like organic chem­Body President, will be responsible Joe Ungashick, a junior, will istry, physics, and chemical engin­for representing students charged become Off-campus Commis­eering." . with violation of University reg­sioner. Bender expressed his hope According to Gill, a program at ulations before Dean of Students to expand the role of the position to Valparaiso University encourages James Roemer. He will also be in deal more with community re­pre-meds to study together and charge of familiarizing students lations. provides tutors to instruct groups with their rights under the present "In the past, the Off-campus of students. The result has been a system as outlined in du Lac. Commissioner has mostly worked much higher rate of acceptance to Bender described Talbot's post as as an intermediary between stu­medical school than in the past. "a challenging job," and noted the dent government and off-campus Other areas to be explored by division of labor was necessary in students," explained Bender. Strigle are work-study programs this area because of the wide scop-e "We'll continue to do that, but and revision of the freshman of issues involved. what's more important is working 
(continued on page 11) 

SU director dispute still unsolved 
by Jack Pizzolato Senior Staff Reporter  Board members broke into disagre­rnent over whether this second vote was official or whether it was held  -rked. 'We should have checked and taken a second vote right then.'  
In an effort to settle the dispute over the selection of Tom Gryp as the Student Union's new director, the Student Union Appointment Board last night took a vote in order to 'clarify its position.' The attempt backfired, however, when John Rooney, the Student Union's administrative assistant, was elected by a S-4 vote, and  simply to guage the opinions of the members. The SU Appointment Board will meet again today to settle the question. The controversy began last Wed­nesday when the Appointment Board, after lengthy debate, elect­ed Gryp to the SU directorship by a vote of 6-3. Board members had agreed beforehand that a two­thirds majority would be necessary for selection. The final vote, which  Ricci explained that 'one of three things happened: either someone lied; there was a miscount; or someone 'fixed' the vote.' Board members cast their ballots separately yesterday, and the Om­budsman oversaw the final vote count. It was decided, however, that only a simple majority would be necessary to settle the question. When the Ombudsman announced the results, John Rooney had been chosen.  
broke a deadlock over the two remaining candidates, Gryp and Rooney, came after five ballots. When the results were revealed, four members of the Appointment Board, former SU Director Kenn Ricci; SU Comptroller Marianne Morgan; Student Body Treasurer  Immediately after Rooney's selection, the new controversy erupted. Rooney's supporters maintained that the Appointment Board had just overturned Gryp's selection, while other Board mem­bers argued that the vote was not official.  
Eric  Ryan;  and  the  Executive  'I saw it as a clarification vote,'  
Co-ordinator  of  the  Hall  Presi­ Bender  said.  'I  didn't  think  
dents' Council Keefe Montgomery, announced that they had cast their  anybody was ge!ng to switch their vote.' Bender stated that he had  
votes for Rooney.  This would have  called the second vote in order to  
made the final vote S-4.  discover  if  a  mistake  had  been •  
The other members of the SU Appointment Board were incoming Student Body President Dave Ben­ made. 'It was the principle of the thing,' Bender concluded. 'I should hav•! told them to vote as  
der; incoming Student Body Vice­President Torn Soma; SU Associate  they did the first time.' Ricci maintained that the vote for  
Director Walt Ling; former Student Body President Mike Gassman; and Director of Student Activities Bro. John Benesh, C.S.C. After two meetings on Friday  Rooney was official. 'I was told to vote just like I would have on a sixth ballot,' he charged. Mont­gomery agreed with Ricci stating that 'we all knew we had made a  
·and  Saturday,  Bender  admitted  mistake  the  first  time  and  we  
that the Board had made a 'mis­take' and asked that a second vote  decided to vote again.' Gassman, who is chairman of  
over  his  office  to  be taken. 'No one counted the vote originally except for Mike Gass­man,' Bender said. 'We (SU Appointment Board) real­ the Appointment Board and the only member who can call for a new vote, stated that he never did so. •As f:u as I'm concerned, the  
ly messed up,' Montgomery rema­ (continued on page 8)  


,...News Briefs----~ 
I=============================:World 
fhree people witness murder 
LONDON-Three witnesses--a doctor, a nurse and· a soldier--say Anglican Archbishop Janani Luwum of Uganda was shot to death, not killed in an automobile accident, the Sunday Telegraph quoted a refugee Ugandan bishop as saying. The newspaper said the Right Rev. Festo Kivengere, a black Anglican bishop told it that Luwum was shot dead and then run over by a car in a staged "accident." 
t==::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: National 

Sadat meets with Carter 
WASIDNGTON -Egyptian President Anwar Sadat arrived yesterday for his first meeting with President Carter, where he is expected to set forth Arab conditions for peace in the Middle East. 



I::::::================================== Local 
Carter reorganization *overdue' 
INDIANAPOLIS-Speaker of the House Thomas P. ("Tip") O'Neill told a news conference here the government reorganization proposed by President Jimmy Carter is long overdue. The House has already given Carter the necessary legislation to begin overhauling between 1,200 and 1,900 federal bureaus and agencies, O'Neill said. He predicted the reorganization plan should sail through Congress. 

~On Campus Today _ ___,_. 
12:15 pm lenten mass, celebrated by fr. griffin, Iafortune 
ballroom 

2-4 pm tax assistance program, conducted by accounting 
students, free, Iafortune ballroom 
3:30 pm lecture, "canon law, theology and science in the twelfth 
century" by prof. richard mckeon, university of 
chicago, sponsored by nd medieval institute, room 713, 
medieval institute, library 

8:.15 pm concert, easley blackwood, composer and pianist; pat..l 
zudofsky, violonist, free, library auditorium 
9:30pm nazz, michelle quinn, basement Iafortune. 
10:15 pm nazz, mary pinard,, poetry readings, basement Iafortune 
Consumer law expert to lecture in Hayes-Healy 
A noted authority on consumer law. Dr. Douglas J. Whaley of Ohio State University, will discuss re­cent developme.nts in the field at a Cardinal O'Hara Memorial Lecture tomorrow at 3:30p.m. The talk in the auditorium of the Haves-Healy Center is sponsored by the Colleg~ of Business Administration and is open to the public. 
A consultant. lecturer and author. Whalev is a member-of the Ia,, lacultv at Ohio State and has pre~ented talks at numerous insti­tute~ and law semmars on the 
lo1 2 3 4 56 (;oud thru April :i. 7 8 9 .... I




r---------------, 
I~ I
1~ Arby.,s Student ~I 
Meal Ticket ~I 
I~ 
hu· $1.25 .... I I~ 1 R«~~. Roa~t He('( I Sm. Fr«·rwh Fr·)'• .....~I IN 1 Cult· ~iaw ~~ 
toptcs of negotiable instruments and credit law. He holds bar memberships in Indiana. Illinois. United States Court of Appeals (Seventh Circuit). U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Indiana and U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Illinois. 
The Cardinal 0' Hara lecture series honor the former Notre Dame president and first dean of business administration. Talks by four or more authorities in the fields of education, commerce and politic~ arc sponsored each vcar hv the series. Dr. Salvatore J. Bella, Jesse .Jones profes<;or of manage­ment at Notre Dame. is the current director of the talks. 
i ht· ( >h..,,.r \t·r r-.. puhlr...,ht•d tv1ond.!'; thwt.~h I rttldl .HHI w<·Pkll dttrtn~ tiH• '\LlrlHlH'r ..,p...,,IIHl f'\1 t-pl dlJnng 
tht-P\drtr .1nd \dt.JfPtrl p•·nod.., lh.­()IJ,Pr\t•r" puhlt,fwd h\ ,ruriPnt' r>t tht• l 111\'l'r .... rf\ ot '-•itrt• f)dlllt> .1c11! ~f \1df\ .., ( cii]PL:'' ')rJb...,, rqrftllll'\ met\ ~H· pun hd..,P!J tc cr }.J(I P''r Vt>,H \:)ltJ pt·r '<'lllt''t••rt trorn I ht• t lh·... r v.-r flox t). Notn· IJ""'" lndldlld 4t>;_=;f, '>t-o< .-mcf cId ...... P(•"'td~t· pard Notri• D.Hn" IndJ.tn,, 4h >>t. 
I h•· Obwn.<>r " a lllt'rnb•·r o\ thf' """" ratf·d f'r•·" ·\II n·prodtJ< '''"' nghh drt' rt·...,t·n t•cl 

New Baroque Trio to play chamber music program 
The New Baroque Trio will present a program of early cham­ber music at Saint Mary's College on Tuesday evening, Apr. 5. The concert, which will feature sonatas. and other works by Leclair, J.S. Bach, Mozart and Beethoven, is scheduled for 8 p.m. in the Little Theatre of Moreau Hall on the College campus. 
The New Baroque Trio was introduced in 1974 at the opening 
• ·of the Sterns Collection of Musical Instruments at the University of Michigan. The ~roup, which specializes in perforrrl-ing chamber music on authentic illstruments, features Marilyn McDonald, baro­que violin; Enid Sutherland, viola da gamba and cello; and Penelope Crawford, harpsichord and forte­piano. 
Marilyn McDonald is a graduate of Northwestern University and Indiana University. She is on the faculty of the Cleveland Insitute of 

Feel more comfortable with ur car ... 
..,.,,_,._..____.. .
~-· 

and save money, too 
'''"'·:----....., __ 
. ::..::·::-~-~ ........ ~ ........ :~·--. ·-·-·-·-. 
···-~ ····--. 

Saturday, May 7, 1977 9 a.m. to 12 noon University of Notre Dame Athletic and Convocation Center 
Come to First Bank's "HowTo" Car Clinic for Women 
Today·s woman depends on her car to haul the kids. get to work. grocery shop, deliver packages. take Grandma to the doctor or go to a meeting. When the car won't work and you don't know what to do. it's just bad news. 
First Bank and area new car dealers want you. tod:=!y's woman. to feel more comfortable with your car. The "How To" Car Clinic for Women will teach you simple facts to help tn the daily operation and care of your car. Partici-
PARTICIPATING DEALERS 
SOUTH BEND 
Basney Ford 
244 South 0 live Street Bertles Imports 52203 U. S. 31 North 
Marv Barr Toyota 
409 South Mmn Street Feterman Cadillac & 0\ds 602 South Michigan Street 
Freeman Spicer 520 South Lafayette BoutevHrd 



FirstBank 
With you ... all the way 
Another serv1ce of FBT Bancorp, Inc 

Music and Case Western Reserve University. Enid Sutherland is a graduate of the University of Michigan, and has studied viola da gamba with the noted European virtuoso, August W enzinger. She teaches at the University of Michi­gan and Oakland University. Penelope Crawford studied at the Eastman School of Music, the Akademie Mozarteum in Salzburg, and the University of Michigan. She teaches in Ann Arbor, Michi­gan, where she is also a member of the Ars Musica Ensemble. 
In addition to the use of a French-style baroque harpsichord built by William Dowd of Boston, a special feature of Tuesday's con­cert will be a fortepiano built by Thomas McCobb of Grand Rapids. This instrument, the predecessor of the modern piano, was modeled after an early 18th century Vien­nese fortepiano. 
The concert is open to the public without c,harge. 
Gates Chevrolet 
333 West Western Avenue Don Medow American 1935 Lincolnway East 
Don Medow Pontiac 
1900 Lincolnway East Harold Medow 222 North Laiayette Boulevard 
Yeager-Brown 221 South Lafayette Boulevard 
pating dealers will have qualified per­sonnel present to conduct workshops. At the same time, helpful information will be furnished by experts regarding car insurance. registration. htghway safety, financ1ng and leasing. 
Registration is limited ... enroll soon at one of the pai'ticipating car dealers listed below. or at any of First Bank's 13 convenient offices. There is a regis­tration fee of three dollars. 
MISHAWAKA 
Jim Hammes Olds-Datsun 
2102 Lincolnway West Jim Hibschman Pontiac ~01 Lincolnway East 
Jordon's Ford ":ity 609 East Jefferson BouiPvard 
D. L. Miller Auto Sales 
2703 Lincolnway West Metro Lincoln Mercury 120 West McKtnley Avenue 
Town & Country Gates 666 West tMKrnley Avenue 

%The Observer 
Night Editor: Joe Bauer (Gold Star Winner) Asst. Night Editor: Paula Carroll Layout Staff: Mary Beth Hudak Editorial Layout: Mike Rich­ter Features Layout: Tim O'Reiley Sports Layout: Greg Solman, Paul Stevenson Typists: Sue Shellenbarger, Anne Giere, Mary Anne Keefe, Karen Chiames E.M.T.: Leigh Tunakan Day Editor: Jack Pizzolato Copy Reader: Pat Cole Ad Layout: Tom Walrath Photographer: Leo Hansen 


1..-tJ.i..~~~.~ --~~~---.:~~-.1 .'L"-~:....;:··~·:..=.f-.;:,:"'·:..:"-:::.:-~::.::~.'-;,;:"·~..:;,"':a..:::..,""•:....:"~;_;:··:....:...:-_~,;_•~,;_-:··_;~·....:.·/_,;_~-_:'·_-·._:.---------­

Monday, April4, 1977 the observer 
N.D. sponsors Jung Conference 
by Kate Flynn logically pleasurable experience 
Staff Reporter because of its archetypal associa­
tion with sexuality. This doesn't 
"The radical woman of today mean that we have to think like that must have the willingness to see all the time. We are caught by an her goals and constructs as 'as if.' archetype if we do," she insisted. She must not identify 100 percent Developing an etymological his­with any''role, but must realize the tory of the word radical as it applies ambi8)lity of her nature to deepen to math, music, geometry, linguis­into herself,'' said Patricia Berry in tics and botany, Berry said of the her speech, "Radical Woman," at radical woman, "when we are the Friday evening session of the radical we are dealing with root Jung Conference in the CCE audi-matters, the source moistures of torium. our very lives. We are not the 
Berry, a practicing depth psych-result of anything; we are. The ologist from Zurich and a lecturer sense of root simply is." and author who has been a guest Berry viewed the urge of the professor at Yale and Syracuse radical woman to settle her ambi­Universities, delivered her speech guities by "going straight" as a to a full house as an answer to last block to consciousness. A "cloak of year's Jung Conference forum on straightness" such as identification "Women and Psychology.'' with a heterosexual, homosexual or 
Regarding Jungian psychology, bisexual role serves only as a Berry advised, "Insofar as depth defense to sexual confusion, she psychology is only counseling or said. advice, it should change its face "It's not what the identification with the times. Psychologists is," Berry declared, "but that shouldn't say what the case should there is one at all, that deprives · be, but should remember the 'as it' women of the agonies of confusion nature of archetypes so. that preci-which could lead them deeper into sion and individuality are not lost in · themselves. The androgenous the process.'' defense or the "careful balancing 
Berry psychologized the word of all concepts and abstractions," radical, and using the analogy of Berry termed as a "clean cop-out", the unpaired radical electron, she devoid of the twi~ted root of dirt said that the word shows a collec-and earth, psychologically and tive prejudice when applied to etymologically inherent in the word women. radical. · 
"Analysts are taught to think in Berry maintained that all pat opposites, in polarities. We are solutions women seek to solve the told to look for what is missing (in ambiguity of their roles are mere the radical woman) such as the traps or substitutions. She accused softness, and we prescribe what the women's movement as often ought to be, but the idea of oppressing the idividual woman's opposites tends to destroy the deepening into herself. negative potentiality." "If women are accused of 
Berry suggested that the thera-hierarchial attitudes, then sister­peutic goal of analy~ts should be to hood becomes the steamroller develop the feminine, to eliminate which levels the radical woman and the polar thinking of exclusive the whitehat mentality emerges," opposites such as masculine versus Berry said. "To be fully radical, feminine or actively angry versus the radical woman must radicalize softly submissive. She said a (go deep into herselO to unite with separation of the psyche and a her own body soil and sense of "putting back together" or balanc-roots." ing through compens~tion strategy Berry characterized two perspec­yields only a mediocre balancing. tives for women as that of the If the point of a w<>man's radicality horizontal movement, archetypally is lost, so are the root moistures of alligned with Demeter the earth her nourishment, according to mother and the verticle movement Berry. of the daughter Persephone, "the 
Berry criticized the use of gender invisible, the unseen." The hori­as another example of polarity zontal movement towards material thinking. She called it a powerful results and a drive for physicality archetype which has seized our should not be allowed to overpower imagination and is best applied the vertical down-movement to­only to discussions of breeding or ward the seed-like or underworld procrearion. root, for the radical or root is "The use of gender is a psycho-indispensible, according to Berry. 
"~ '.'I·• ,:,,~;~:~ .~ ·..~5:~;1il 

Thomas Kapicinskas of Notre Dame closed the jung Conference held this weekend at the CCE. (photo by Leo Hansen) 

This is one of the participants in the informal discussion following 
the lung Conference yesterday. 
Speaking of the consciousness of women today, Berry said there seems to be an overreaction to the horizontal movement of the politi­cal. She urged the iddividual woman to connect downward with her inner psychological depths as the Persephone myth illustrates. Regarding androgenous tenden­cies, Berry again reminded that androgensy constitutes l:\ jumping to the end ofi:he process, instead of a going through with a process which is so psychologically benefi­ciaI. 
''The union of the horizontal and vertical is difficult and only period­ically accomplished at great cost,,
said Berry. But the material aims_ 
Worried about Shipping home Your Belongings 
Your worries are over! Store All Your belongings close to campus. 
At: MASTER MINI-WAREHOUSES self-Service Storage Open 7 Days Located iust north of State line Telephone: 683-1959 or 684-6991. 
We're Going In Style 

(photo by Leo Hansen) 
of the horizontal should not· be an 
end in and of itself, or the vertical 
movement (into ourselves) will be 
viewed as threatening, morose, 
alien and be repressed.'' 
In conclusion, Berry said the 
radical woman, often a woman of 
fierce anger, makes herself her 
own victim by choosing images that 
neglect in-depth soul. She offered, 
instead, a view of the radical 
woman as an 'as if figment of the 
mind, a fantasy with 'as if goals 
fo:-invisible roots. 
McConnick and Matchbox Circus 
Saturday's session of the Jung Conference ended in the CCE 
•

:MONDAY: Michelle Quinn 9:30pm : Mary Pinard poetry readings IO:ISpm eTUESDAY: Tom Soma 9:30-llpm :wEDNESDAY: 9-1
....... .... ..
~ ~~ ~~~ 
auditorium with an evening of gala entertainment by Professor McCormick and his Matchbox Cir­cus. 
. McCormick with his co-stars Michael Anthony and son, Snake Little, treated a full house to 90 minutes of juggling, fire-eating, illusions and "Punch and Judy" tragi-comedy interspersed with fanfare and clowning. 
"Imagination is the key to every­thing you'll see in the McCormick Circus," Anthony commented as he opened the festivities with his lively showmanship. First, he performed balloon sculpture and prestidigitation stunts from all over the world supplemented by carni­val music and percussion. 
Next, McCormick dazzled a dar­kened auditorium with his fearless fire-eating stunts. Using rods burning with· fire from a golden chalice, McCormick caressed, threw, carried with his fingers and swallowed flames for a good ten minutes while the audience gasped. 
"There's nothing terribly dam­aging about it, but you don't want to inhale the fumes," explained McCormick to one incredulous fan afterwards. 
Anthony continued the show with a variety of magical and other "unnatural.acts" including a 5,000 year-old Chinese "Mystery of the Rings" trick in which he proved that he could join eight single rings into a chain "simultaneously and together all at the same time.'' 
Next, Anthony crouched in an Indian basket while his assistant, Snake Little, skewered the basket and human contents "meticulously and savagely" with several three­foot long swords. After minutes of excruciating pain for the audience and Anthony, he emerged intact up<>n withdrawing of the swords 
[continued on page 10] 

P'*The Observer an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's 
The Observer is published by students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of either instit_uti~n. The news is reported as accurately an~ . as objectlvei.Y as possible. Editorials represent the opm1on of a maJOritY of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions .and l:tters are the views of their authors. Column space 1s ava1lable to all members of the community, and letters are encouraged to promote the free expression of varying 
opinions on campus. BoxQ Business Manager Sue Quigley 
Notre Dame Advertising Manager Steve Bonomo Ind. 46556 Production Manager Karen Chiames 

EDITORIAL BOARD 
Marti Hogan Editor-in-Chief Martha Fanning Managing Editor Bob Brink Asst. Managing Ed. Kathy Mills Executive Editor Maureen Flynn Editorial Editor Barb Breitenstein Exec. News Editor Tom Byrne Campus Editor Jean Powley St. Mary's Editor Katie Kerwin News Editor Paul Stevenson Sports Editor Pat Cole Special Projects Ed. David 0'Keefe Features Editor 
Copy Editor Barb Langhenry 
Photo Editor Paul Clevenger 
Monday, April 4, 1977 




seriously folks, A Concorde Compromise 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiaart bu c hwaI d 
W ASBINGTON--One of the sensi­tive issues facing President Carter is what to do about the Concorde. The problem of refusing the Con­corde permission to land at Ken­nedy Airport has exacerbated rela­tions with two of our closest allies--France and Britain. While Mr. Carter has no objection to the supersonic plane landing at Ken­nedy, the Port Authority and the citizens of New York have been reluctant to allow the Concorde to 
buzz their Long Island homes. 
More than landing rights are at stake. If the Concorde isn't permitted to fly into New York the already weakened government of Giscard d'Estaing could fall. The Labor government in England is also in danger of being toppled over by the issue. 
As with all foreign policy issues under the Carter Administration, human rights are at stake. On the one hand we have the human rights of the people of Long Island to live in peace and tranquility--on the other hand we have the human rights of the French and British people who have poured billions of dollars into their flying white elephant and haven't seen a franc or a shilling in profit for their investment. 
There should be a compromise that will satisfy both sides. A friend of mine at the State Depart­ment thinks he has the answer. He hasn't cleared it with his superiors so he asked to remain anonymous. 
"I propose that we meet the French and British halfway," he said. "That is, we permit the Concorde to land at Kennedy but forbid it to take off. 
"There are some who say this will create more problems than it will resolve, but we must keep our eyes on the advantages. The French and British governments will not be able to proclaim total victory to their constituents, but they will have succeeded in getting half of what they want, which is more than they usually get. 
"We are constantly being told that, while the French and British never hope to make money on their supersonic plane, their pride is at stake. If they can advertise that the Concorde does fly to New York we can save their pride.'' 
"That's an excellent compro­
mise," I said. "But if the 
Concorde can't take off from JFK, 
how do the French and British get 
it back again?" 
"Very simple," he replied. "We 
load it on a Metroliner and take it 
by train to Washington, where we 
truck it to Dulles Airport which has 
given the plane permission to take 
off." ''That's not a bad solution," I admitted. 
"Ifthis is not practical, we could scrap the plane and return the parts to London and Paris by air freight." 
"That's a good solution because it would give needed employment to French and British aircraft workers." 
•'The major advantage is that by only permitting the Concorde to land and not to take off you would be cutting the noise factor on Long Island by SO percent. The citizens who live around JFK should be willing to put up with that.'' 
"It seems to me the French and British can't refuse the offer," I said...·Ifthey do, it would show the world that they are reluctant to compromise. Will Amtrak agree to transport the Concorde to Wash­ington on one of its trains?" 
''They said they would, but they can't guarantee that the plane won't be damaged in transport when it goes under the tunnel in Baltimore. Air France and British Airways might have to do a few repairs on the fuselage when it gets to Dulles, but it's a small price for them to pay for getting landing rights for the Concorde at JFK in New York.'' 


P. 0. Box Q~!!!!! 


Feed The 

Fire 

To the Editor: 
After attending St. Mary's Col­lege for almost three years now, we have seen both apathy and involve­ment in the student body. For a school with sucn potential, there has unfortunately been an over­whelming lust ~oward apathy. 
Despite this trend toward non­involvement, St. Mary's students took an inportant step on March 28th to illustrate that apathy wasn't an inherent part of their character. The historic 59 percent voter turn-out to the student body offi­cers' election gives us all reason to hope that St. Mary's is willing to get involved and that the students do care. __ _ 
We'd like to thank everyone who 
supported us in our campaign. More importantly, we believe that student government deserves sup­port from the entire student body. It is one thing to vote for and support a ticket.. The next phase is to help lhat ·ticket accomplish its goals. To do that, we'd like to encourage everyone to make an effort to stay involved and aware of what your student government will be doing. It is just as much your responsibility as well as your officers'; to make student govern­ment potent. The fire has been ignited. Now it is everyone's responsibility to keep it going. 
Let's not fizzle out, SMC. Let's all 
help Mary Rukavina, Kathy 
opinion !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 



Subterfuge 
Page 6 of the March 30 Observer featured a large advertisement by the Armco Steel Corporation. The text of the ad complained in specific terms of the number of governmental regulations with which Armco must today comply; it also expressed concern that gov­ernmental regulation of businesses like Armco might rob the reader (presumably a university student approaching graduation) of his chance for a job. I think that an examination of Armco's conduct in a particular recent controversy gives us cause to question the corporation's motive in warning up 
.of lost jobs, and offers us a more 
accurate image of Armco's concern 
for humanity, such as it is. 
Armco and Republic Steel Cor­
poration jointly own and control the 
Reserve Mining Company. 
Reserve mines taconite,-a low­
grade iron ore, from the Mesabi 
Iron Range in northern Minnesota, 
and processes the ore at Silver Bay, 
Minnesota, on the shores of Lake 
Superior. Processing leaves 
Reserve with two tons of waste, or 
"tailings" for every ton of usable 
ore produced. Since 1960, Reserve 
has dumped 67,000 tons of taconite 
tailings directly into Lake Superior 
every day. 
The facts regarding 
Reserve/ Armco's dumping are 
striking. In terms of sheer volume, 
the 67,000 ton-per-day dumping 
constitutes the largest single dis­
charge of pollutants in the nation. 
In comparison, New York City, 
which generates more garbage 
than any other city in the workd, 
produces only 28,500 tons per day. 
More important than the volume of 
the discharge, however, is its 
chemical nature. Reserve's tail­
ings contain trace elements of 
copper, nickel, and other metals, 
but 44 percent of the total dis­
charge is composed of amphibole 
material, of which SO to 70 percent 
is in the cummingtonite-gunerite 
series. This cummingtonite­
gunerite component has been 
found to be chemically identical to 
asbestos, which is the generic 
name for a number of naturally 
occurring hydrated silicates which 
subdivide easily into fine micro­
scopic fibers. The discovered link 
between taconite tailings and as­
bestos is the cause of grave 
concern, because exposure to as­
bestos has been identified as the 
cause of many deadly diseases, 
including several types of cancer. 
Concerned citizens have argued 
for nearly ten years that Reserve 
Mining's dumping practice 
damaged the natural environment 
of Lake Superior . Chemical and 
craig morte/1 
medical studies have established at least the strong possibility of harm to human health from the dump­ing. Since the outset of public controversy and litigation over the dumping however, Reserve and its parent Armco have assumed a 
' position of arrogant unconcern over the possible effects of the dump­ing. Its answer to critics was until recently that if it were ordered by the courts to abandon direct dis­posal of its tailings into Lake Superior, Reserve would ·be eco­nomically forced to cease opera­tions and its 3200 employees would be put out of work. 
This warning of lost l2.,bs. which was later proven to be--factually groundless, was an attempt to dupe the public and bully the involved state and federal governments. Not only did Reserve/ Armco flatly ignore the peril to human health and the environment; it used the job security of its employees as ~a pawn in its attempt to force governmental permission for con­tinued lake dumpings of tailings-­all because lake dumping was the least expensive disposal alter­native, the method most favorable to corporate profits. 
What l . find objectionable in Armco's March 30 advertisement is that in it, Armco is again attempt­ing to sell us a bill of goods with the threat of lost jobs. Whether government regulation of business is excessive is a legitimate ques­tion. The use of virtual scare tactics in arguing that question, however, is to me repulsive, es­pecially when carried on by a corporation in the Reserve Mining controversy, and its past manipu­lative use of the jobs issue, I am highly skeptical of Armco's pur­ported concern over the employ­ment outlook for Notre Dame students. Armco's only concern is for Armco. 
A footnote: the Reserve dump­ing procedure has been the subject of the most protracted Jaw suit in the history of environmental law. Reserve Mining has recently been ordered to end lake disposal by July 7, 1977, and to adopt instead an on-land disposal system. Rather than ceasing its operations, as it had said would be necessary in this event, Reserve/ Armco is now con­tentedly fighting the State of Minnesota for permission to dump its refuse at the most convenient and least expensive potential on­land site. In other words, Reserve/ Armco's warning that it would be forced to discharge all of its employees if prevented from dumping into Lake Superior was a subterfuge, an outright lie. 

O'Connell and Kathy Hedges make it work for all of us. 
Mary Ann Stolze Jo Ann Baggiano Terease Chin 
Crocuses Are 
Blooming 
Dear Editor: 
Spring is sprung; the crocuses are blooming in Crossroads Park. Fifty bulbs were planted last fall and they're just starting to bloom. Go out and enjoy the little purple & yellow flowers. 
Name Wlthheldb~· Request 
P.S. Let's hope maintcnanl'l' dol'~ not pull them up: mi~takin~·. thl'lll for crah~ra<;s. 

St. Jude Prayers 
. Deal' Editor: 
Everywhere in the campus chap­
els these days, copies of the 
"Unfailing prayer to St. Jude" are 
being found, with the following 
instructions attached: "Say the 
following prayer 9 days in suc­
cession, leaving a ~opy in the 
church each day. It has never 
failed to grant a request." 
One can say any prayer he 
wishes to say; I suspect God is open 
to them all. But to prescribe a 
routine which makes a particuiar 
prayer unfailing in its effects 
strikes me as magic and super­
stition. 
I urge that well-meaning people 
discontinue and discourage this 
practice of prayer. 
Robert F. Grifftn, C.S.C. The University Chaplain 
---~ 

Monday, April 41 1977 the observer 
For SSP, SBVP 
Committee forms new election guidelines 
by Mark Perry 

Because of problems occurring 'during this year's elections for Student Body President and Vice­President, a committee from Om­budsman, headed by Tim Cawley, has made several revisions and additions to the present election guidelines. 
Oark Carmichael, another mem­ber of the revisions committee, outlined the changes and gave some reasons for the revisions that wore made. The guidelines apply for student body elections and Student Life Council elections. 
Some of the major changes include: --The executive commmittee in 
charge of the elections has been increased from four members to five. Carmichael noted that they are considering placing an admin­istrator on the committee, but this will not be written up in the 
guidelines. 
--The J-board will be in charge of balloting, as they were this year, but there will be at least two people at eacn polling place, a J-board member and someone from Ombudsman. 
--Only official petitions will be accepted when applying for candi­dacy. Carmichael noted as the reason for this addition, the Ken Ricci candidacy where an unofficial petition had to be accepted because there was no rule against it. 
--The campaign expense limit for the student body election has been increased from $50 to $60, and from $25 to $30 for the student life council elections. 
--Receipts for all campaign materials purchased must be given to the election committee before the materials can be distributed. 
--Materials donated to any cam­paign will be estimated for market value and will be included in the campaign expenses. Carmichael noted the Bender-Soma ticket, which had small lapel sashes donated to them, as the main reason for this change. 
--Candidates cannot use the meeting_ of any organization for campaigning, even if mey an! 
'Edu-Tainer' True to speak on carer -~~fe decisions 
by Peggy Schomaker 

Dr. Herb True, the "World's Greatest Edu-Tainer' ', will appear in the Library Auditorium tomor­row at 7:30 p.m. 
An author, recording artist, re­search psychologist and showman, Dr. True will be speaking on the subject, "The Best-kept Secrets in Education." This talk concerns students setting priorities and goals, how to market a college degree, and how to focus in on career and life decisions. 
Dr. True will also discuss ideas such as being educated past one's intelligence, the difference be­tween a Catholic and a Christian, and the myths of success. 
An entertaining lecturer, Dr. True is also the author of 2 best sellers;Laugh OU and Funn1 Bone. His other books included The Car «.· f'eeding of Ideas and Psycho~ tu.pc.• Monographs. He has also recorued four RCA custom records and cassettes on leadership and self-development programs. 
Dr. True is currently president of TEAM International, Inc., located in Las Vegas, South Bend, and New York. This is a group of writers, artists and idea people who travel throughout Canada, U.S.A., Aus­tralia, South America and Europe, giving self-development lectures and seminars. 
Dr. True is a research psycholo­gist with a B.A. from University of Oklahoma, a Master's degree from Northwestern and a Ph.D. from the University of Iowa. Much of his research has been on the psycho­logy of humor. 
Dr. True is sponsored by the Student Union Academic Commis­sion. 
' 
· 
Sociology papers presented in weekend convention 
by Tim Lew Staff Reporter 

The second annual Notre Dame Sociology convention was held Friday and Saturday in LaFortune Student Center. Research papers were presented by students from 28 colleges and universities. 
The papers dealt with a wide variety of subjects including pre­marital sexual behaviour, drug use, campus drinking and the social aspects of suicide. Both graduate and undergraduate students parti­cipated in the convention, whicl1 was organized and run entirely by Notre Dame students in the Soci-· ology Oub and Alpha Kappa Delta, the sociology honor society. 
Several papers by Notre Dame students attracted considerable attention. One by Kevin Witasick explored the use of graffiti as a means of personal expression, and another by Milt Gavlick discussed the shortage of doctors in poor and rural areas. Eight Notre Dame students delivered papers while Sociology Club and Alpha Kappa Delta officers coordinated the con­vention proceedings. 
Participants f.eaid-uf. Hans Mauksch, executive officer of the American Sociological Association, speak on the role and identity of sociology in American society. 
Mauksch regretted the inade­quacy of undergraduate teaching in sociology, stating that the very nature and constantly expanding scope of sociologi-cal research makes it impossible to keep class. room teaching contempory. The use of textbooks them5elves, he said, prevents the student from keeping up to date with the latest findings. 
Mauksch continued to explain the unique problem sociologists have in defining their role. Sociology is both a discipline and a profession, but is neither exclusive­ly, he noted. It lends itself readily to all other professions and the challenge to sociologists is to organize and synthesize their knowledge with the knowledge we have in all other disciplines and professions, he emphasized. 
In whatever professional context, where human interaction takes place sociology has the ability to reshape and redefine that context, Mauksch remarked. 
Arts and Letters approves new major 
The Co!Jege of Arts and Letters have approved a new Collegiate Sequence in Medieval Civilization to begin in the fall of 1977. 
The sequence establishes an interdisciplinary program permit­ting students to obtain the equiva­lent of a major in medieval civiliza­tion. The student will take at least eight courses to complete the sequence. In addition, the student will select a primary and a second­ary field of study. The Director of the Medieval Institute will act as the students' advisor. 
For more information about the program, contact the Medieval Institute at extension 6604. 
members of that organization. 
--Candidates are held responsi­
ble for the actions oftheir workers. 
This regulation was added in an 
effort to limit the size of a 
campaign organization, Carmichael 
noted. Any violations noted will 
cause the candidate to lose SO 
percent of their allotted campaign 
expense. 
--Candidates cannot disclose 
their intention to run any earlier 
than second semester. Twenty-five 
percer:t loss of the campiagn 
expense will result in the case of a . violation. 
--No campaign committee can be 
formed more than four weeks prior 
to election day under penalty of a 
SO percent campaign expense loss. 
--No endorsement by any present 
Student Government official can 
be given· -until the week prior to 
election day. A ten percent 
campaign expense reduction will 
result for the first violation and a SO 
percent loss for the second viola­
tion. 
--If a candidate exceeds his 
c~mpaign expense limit, he forfeits 

Dr. Herb True will speak on 
"The Best-kept Secrets in Ed­ucation" in the library Auditorium tomorrow at 7:30p.m. An author of many books, True also has recorded RCA records on leader­ship and self-development pro­grams. 


If Red Cross hadn't trained 
young Lars Alecksen in 
lifesaving techniques, last 
summer Adam Gauthier 
just might have ended up 
one more drowning statis­
tic. (Adams alive and well 
today, thank you, and in 
the first grade in Man­
itowoc, Wisconsin.) 
We're not asking for medals (Lars is the one who desetVes those). But we do need your con­tinued support Help us. Because the things we do really help. In your own neighborhood. And across America. And the world. 


Adam 

Gauthier 
counted 
onus. 



his candidacy. ··Elections will be held the first week of March. 
--All election guidelines will be published in du Lac magazine and in The Observer. Frequent remin­ders will be published in The Observer during the weeks prior to the election. 
--The election guidelines will be reviewed every year for possible revisions and additions. 
Carmichael also said he will talk to The Observer about having their 
GAME 

NOW OPEN Hickory Rd. 
Only 

• 
PINBALL 

• 
FOOSBALL 


COLLEGE DAY 
SUNDAY 
Show college ID & get $1.00 off 16" Family size Pizza 
N HICKORY
401

TOWN & endorsements · made before the 'primary election, rather than between the primary and the final election. He noted that because of the slim margin in the final vote count, The Observer's endorse­ment of the Bender-Soma ticket was probably the deciding factor in the election. 
Carmichael has been placed in charge of next year's election -:ommittee, aided by Tom Lux, Marc Woodward, and Karen Dunegan. 

"Where Pizza is Always in Good Taste!" 

It depends on what "life" means.... For most of us, life is a good job, a good house, a good CB!'( •• and If we're lucky, a good marriage. 
For some (and perhaps for vou) this is not enough. The "good life" somehow is not enough. Life must mean some­thing different: the attempt to live in union with God, to serve others, to give as totally and as generously as you can. 
The Paulists offer a way of life which can satisfy young men who seek more than the "good life." As a small community of Catholic priests, we have worked for over a century throughout the United States and Canada-from Manhattan to Toronto, from Greensboro to Houston, from Los Angeles to Fairbanks. Our mission? To speak the message of Jesus Christ to this modern world: to communicate His shattering love and overwhelming forgiveness in a time and world where He so often seems absent. 
To do so, we are actively involved in parish work, preach­ing, adult education, campus ministry, publishing and mass communications. We are missionaries; we are bridge­builders. We seek to serve the Gospel in eve; new ways. 
The Paulist life is not an easy one. But one who dares will find rewards bey~nd expectation, satisfactions beyond dreams. But not complete satisfaction, for we are constantly searching to make the Gospel real to more people In today's world. 
Don't let your idealism die. Discover what our community can mean to _you. 
FlO out the coupon below for more Information about the Paulloto. 
Dear Father DeSiano: Please send mr more lnforma!lon on the work of the Paullsts and thoe Paulilt P~lesthood. 
Rev. Frank DeSiano, cs.P Director of Vocations NAME ---­PAULIST FATHERS Dept. D124 STREET ADORES!>-----------­
415 Weal 59th Street CITY--------STATE--ZIP-
Nftl York. N.Y. 10019 
COLLEGE AlTENOING---------­
nASSOF---------------­
CJF: The Most Prestigious 
By sean Coughlin 

How does one go about describing the oldest and most prestigious jazz festival in 
world, a festival that laid the foun­dation for every national and regional high school and college jazz festival (165 in total) in the United States? It can only be 
as an enormous but enjoyable task. The three sessions (Friday evening, Saturday afternoon and Saturday evening) displayed the very best in collegiate jazz. 
The Notre Dame Big Band, under the <llrectton of George Wiskerchen, C.S.C, the 19th Annual Collegiate Jazz Friday night with "Slats", an ~·"'u""'· Wilkins composition which featured Philippsen on guitar, trombonist Don ~...,..,.,,.and John Leslie on alto sax. Playing receptive audience, the N.D. Big continue with "Mr. Smoke", featur-Mike Stalteri on tenor sax, Mark ::.•.;tnn,.hnm••r on trumpet and Outstanding K.f>vnn:~1rn.: award-winner Neil Gillespie on Mike Stalteri, giving one of the best ~Jlerfot~<anc:es of the Festival on tenor sax, featured on the band's next number, a 
Talanio arrangement of "I'm Glad There is You". Notre Dame finished their half-hour set with a very tight rendition of Jimmy McNeely's "Spring Song", featur­ing Gillespie on piano and Ed Byrnes on clarinet. 
The Ohio State Combo then took the stage, starting their set with a compostion by the group's trumpet player, Bob Larson 
"Gandalfs Golliwog" which 
.r1r..:~tm·..rt John Erilche on piano and Jim Gallagher on alto sax. OSU continued their set with "Porcelain Steakhouse", a Terry Douds composition marked by a fine solo Honorable Mention award winner Mather on saxophone, and "What's They're Both Blues", a mellow written by the combo's leader, Emche. 
The Texas Southern Jass Ensemble, an all-black band from Houston, Texas was next. Only with superlatives can one iescribe the performance of this 41-piece ~nsemble led by Larry Steele and Howard Harris. TSU had the crowd in the palm of collective hand with their first IJturnn,er, a composition by the band's SO)Jra:no saxophonist, Kirk Whalum which fantastic solos by Whalom and Young III on alto. Their next r••u'""'"' featured vocalist Cheryl Hawkins to black jazz artists who have away entitled "A Jazz Memor­' written by Howard Harris. The however were hardly audible, often ~o,velrshadc)wc~d by the brass section. TSU's 
third number was written by the school's only African student, Richard Asikpo. "Tribute to Elizabeth", Asikpo's first compostition featured a fine, tight brass section and crowd-pleasing solos by John Gordon on tenor sax and by Whalum. Next was "I Remember Oliver" a song written by the band's alto sax player Horace Young III, featuring John Gordon on tenor sax and Wendell Moore who played the fastest and smoothest guitar solo I have ever wit­nessed. Finishing with "The Song is You" an arrangement by Larry Steele, the Jazz Ensemble featured vocalist Toni Neely and Kirk Whalum on tenor sax. In the last part of the number, Toni Neely was joined by Horace Young III on alto sax, Whalum and Herbert Perry on trombone in a perfectly natched vocal-instrumental harmony. TSU left the stage amid the first standing ovation of the DJF and screams of "more" from the enthusiastic crowd. 
The TSU Jazz Ensemble did not go away unrewarded, leaving for Houston with six awards: Outstanding Performance by a big band, Outstanding trombone (Herbert Perry), Outstanding Arrangement and Composer (Richard Asikpo), Outstanding guitar (Wendell Moore), an unprecedented unanimous award to the entire bass section for Outstanding bass (electric), and Out­standing Vocalist (Toni Neely). In all, Texas Southern gave the most enjoyable and crowd-pleasing performance of Fri­day's session. 
Next on the program was the Fredonia Jazz Quintet from Fredonia State Univer­sity College in Fredonia, New York. The combo was led by Emil Palame a student who plays piano for the Quintet and for the Fredonia Jazz Ensemble, which appeared Saturday night and arranges or composes 
. most ofthe material performed by both the Quintet and the Ensemble. The Fredonia Quintet, awarded the plaque for Outstand­ing Performance by a combo, performed four numbers. The Quintet's third number written by Palame was entitled "Gesture", featured a fantastic soprano sax solo by Keller, one of the most versatile and entertaining performers at the festival. Fredonia left to another standing ovation, their performance demonstrating a pre­cision so obviously lacking in the previous performance by the Ohio State Combo. The last collegiate band to play at the Friday night session was the Northwestern University Big Band from Evanston, Illinois. Awarded $100 for Outstanding Performance by a Big Band, the North­western ensemble played three com­
1 positions. The first two numbers were 
taken right out of the Big Band era, and 
demonstrated Northwestern's tight well­
disciplined brass section. The third tune 
performed by the Northwestern Big Band 
was a more progressive number, featuring 
the rythym section. In addition to their 
award as Outstanding Big Band, North­
western's Steve Rodby, who does most of 
the studio bass work recorded in Chicago, 
was given three awards: for Outstanding ' acoustic bass, Outstanding electric bass, and a unanimous decision as Outstanding Instrumentalist for the entire festivaL 
Billed as the highlight of the session, the 
Judges' Jam, which commenced at 12:30 
was somewhat of a dissappointment. In 
the first song perfomed (which featured a 
soulful, bluesy presentation by David 
Sanborn on alto sax), Bob James on 
acoustic piano, Sanborn, Will Lee on bass 
and Bob Moses on drums couldn't quite 
click together. They each seemed to be 
playing conflicting peices. The same was 
true on the second tune, on which Randy 
Brecker joined in on trumpet. Only on the 
third and final piece, an extended in­
strumental version of Leon Russel's "This 
Masquerade" did the five judges work as a 
team. Bob James having moved to his 
Fender Rhodes, Sanborn and Brecker 
traded off on alto and trumpet with 
Sanborn playing very emotional solos, but 
Brecker still having trouble getting into the 
music. Will Lee thrilled the crowd with a 
surprisingly exciting bass solo, dancing 
around the stage providing a driving bass 
line while Brecker blasted away at his 
trumpet. The forty-five minute jam, forced 
to end early because of technical problems 
(most notably David Sanborn's mouthpiece 
which loosened up every few minutes) left 
the overflow crowd in Stepan Center very 
satisfied, as did the rest of the evening's 
performances. 

The Saturda) afternoon session of the 
Collegiate Jazz Festival started at ;me 
o'clock with the Norther Iowa Jazjt' En­
semble. The saxophone section,.t1acked 
clarity and force throughout the ~t song, 
only coming together toward tl,te end. 
The solos started well, appearing from 
nowhre out of the brass section, but tended 
to die off at the end, leaving the audience 
suspended in mid-stream' until the brass 
section could pick up the,theme of the song 
agian. · 

The Jeff Pellaton Combo, from Eastern 
Illinois University was next, playing four 
selections. "Just Friends" by Bill Wat­
rous was first, featuring Tom Birkner, who 
vocally matched Mark Goodyear's baritone 
saxr and Tom Kraft's trombone note for 
note. The high point of the Combo's set 
was the third piece "Smile, please" by 
Stevie Wonder, which again featured 
Birkner on vocals and Jeff Pellaton's drum 
solo. The combo was very well mixed, 
resulting in a pleasant blend of in­
struments and vocals. 

Memphis State University's Jazz En­
semble started their set with "You Gotta 
Try" a Basie-Nestico composition which 
featured Outstanding saxophonist Bill 
Easley on tenor. The band demonstrated 
excellent continuity and discipline in theri 
transitions from solo to group work. Along 
with Easley, Memphis States Kevin Nash 
was so exceptionally talented that he was 
awarded a plaque for Outstanding per­
formance, acoustic bass even though he 
never soloed. Memphis State closed out 
their performance with Bill Dobyns' 
"Roots". received a standing ovation and 
proved to be the best ensemble of the 
afternoon session. 

A very unusual performance was given 
by the Citizen's Band of the University of 
Iowa. Playing avant-garde progressive 
jazz, the Citizen's Band offered the 
audience a type of jazz previously unheard 
at the 19th Collegiate Jazz Festival. The 
band's main emphasis was on their 
extensive percussive and rhythm sections 
and, unlike all the other bands at the 
festival. de-emphasized their brass sec­
tion, consisting of but two saxes and two 
flutes. Though no winning any per­
formance or soloist awards, the Citizen's 
Band otfered the audience an enjoyable 
alternative to the type of jazz offered <lt the 
witi-:in the saxophone section as demon­strated on the band's first number "Groove Tunes" by Don Menza. The high 
· point of the performance, however came at the end of the set, when a fantastic drum solo by Bubba Bryant (who was awarded an honorable mention for his efforts) brought the crowd to its feet and proved to be a fitting end to a fine afternoon of excellent jazz. 
Saturday evening's session of the Col­legiate Jazz Festival began with surprising performance by two winners in the CJF High School division. Held Saturday from 
8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. at Clay High School in SouthBend, the high school division included performances by fifteen high shcools from Indiana, Illinois, Mich­igan, Ohio, Pennsylvania and Nevada. The first high school band to play Saturday night in Stepan Center was that of Forest View High School in Arlington Heights, IJI. 
Had this band, typified by very tight, well-disciplined musicianship and talented soloists been included in the collegiate competition, it would have, in my opinion. blown many of the more experienced college bands out of the competition. 
The second high school band, from Wheeling, Ill. and from the same school district as Forest View, performed three pieces. Wheeling's trombonist, voted the outstanding trombone player of the CJF High School division was featured on the third piece which also demonstrated the band's well disciplined, tight sound. 
The first college band on the agenda of the Saturday evening session was the Fredonia Jazz Ensemble which was voted one of the Outstanding Big Bands of the Festival. Directed by Emil Palame, the band played four compositions. The second featured solos by Honorable Men­tion recipient Barry McVinney on alto sax, Outstanding Keyboards award winner Palam and Outstanding trumpet award winner Mike Kaupa. "Martian Shopping Spree" written by Emil Palame and featuring Outstanding Drums award re­cipient Bob Leatherbarrow and Pete Ran­dazzo who played a baritone sax solo unequaled at the CJF, was third. Fredonia's fourth piece ••call on Me" also written by Palame featured Gary Keller who played such a bluesy, emotion-filled tenor saxophone solo, one could virtually hear it speak. The Band's 'final peice "Bigfoot" again by Palame which featured a fine muted trumpet solo by Steve Bienefeld urged the audience to give Fredonia a well deserved standing ovation. 
In all. the Fredonia combo and ensemble, led by Palame took seven awards and one honorable mention: Outstanding Perform­ance by a combo, Outstanding Perform­ance by a Big Band, Outstanding Sax­
_Qphone (Gary ~ell~rj, ~~~~-n~g_ T~­pet (Mike Kaupa), Outstanding Drums (Bob Leatherbarrow) Honorable Mention. Saxophone (Barry McVinney), Outstanding Arragnement and Composer ctrnil Pal· arne), and Outstanding Keyboards (Pal­arne). Demonstrating fantastically tal­ented musicians, great discipline and a tight, well-blended delivery, the Fredonia ensemble proved to be one of the most exciting bands of the festival. 
festival. · 
The Notre .Dame Combo. the only Combo 

Eastern Illinois University's Big Band 
to compete in the festival completely
closed out the Saturday afternoon session 
11ev.>id of brass or horns, iollowed. Giving
disappointing, unspirited performances of 
with that of Memphis State. Led by Allan 
their firstthreenumbers. £he Combo finally 
Horney, Eastem's Big Band showed 
connected on the fourth. "Funk Up". by
incredible individual ., · . 
l 

Black Abyss
By Dauid CJKeefe -1 
Monday, April4, 1977 the observer 
7 

drummer Steve Calonje. Featuring Neii Gillespie on Fender Rhodes, Cedric Wil­liams (who is always a delight to watch) on bass and Bill Boris (who never faces the audience while playing), the N.D. Combo let loose to a driving bass line provided by Williams and Gillespie. The Combo finished up with a short rendition of Charlie Parker's "Scrapple from the Apple" which featured a lighning fast guitar solo by Bill Boris. 
MIT's Festival Band, under the direction of Herb Palmeroy was next on the program. On the band's second song, "Summertime" arranged by Outstanding Arrnagement and Composer award winner Torn Okoshi, Keith Reid, playing a fantastic soulful muted trumpet solo mixed well with the band, overall complimenting the other. The band's overlal performance, however, was inconsistent, readhing high points with Reids solo of "Summer­time" and the trumpet solo and drum solo of "A Tri-tone a Day Keeps the Doctor. Away" by Mike Hughes, but draging in the over-long "Eastwards" by Okoshi. 
Greg Shearer and Bill Boris from Notre Dame continued with an electric guitar duet. Boris and Shearer switched leads on their three songs, but despite the fact that Shearer received an award for Outstanding guitarist for his performance with Boris, the two received little response from the audience. 
Outstanding performance, combo award winners the Wisconsin Conservatory of Music Combo performed next their three songs each featuring an award winning soloist: Brian Lynch (trumpet), Marcus Robinson (Keyboards) and Harry Koz­lowski (trombone). Despite the judges' consensus favoring the Wisconsin Conser­vatory Combo, the crowd seemed un­impressed by their performance. 
The crowd came alive shortly thereafter to the well matched forceful sound of the Medium Rare Band from the New England Conservatory of Music. Receiving an Outstanding Performance, Big Band a-· 
ward.the Medium Rare Big Band thrilled the crowd with its jazzy upbeat renditions. The high point of the performance was Roland Rizzo's vocal impersonation of Louis Armstrong during the band's third piece (for which Rizzo received a unan­imous "miscellanious" award). An Out­standing Drummer award was given to the medium Rare's drummer, Akira Tana. The band closed out the Collegiate Jazz Festival Competition providing a fine end to a fantastic week-end of jazz. While the judges were deliberating, a guest perfor­mance was given by the Easter School of Music's Jazz Combo. Luckily for the college combos, Easter's was not included in the competition for,if it had been, none of the others would have had a chance. Even though the hour was late and the audience (by now greatly depleted) was tired, the combo drew great response to their exceptional musicianship of original pieces. In addition to the musicianship awards, two special awards were given by the CJF Committee: first to Father Wiskerchen, "spiritual advisor and patron saint" of the festival for "19 years of service"; and to Senior Jim Smalley; Assistant to the Chairman of the OF. Because of the late hour, by now approach­ing three o'clock, the award winners' jam was cancelled (much to my delight). Thus ended a thoroughly enjoyable week-end of jazz--over ten hours of the best in collegiate jazz--the 19th Annual Collegiate Jazz Festival, the oldest and most prestigious festival of its kind. 
Black Sunday Directed by John Frankenhelmer 
Starring Bruce Dem, Marthe KeUer, Robert Shaw, Fritz Weaver 
John Frankenheimer is to film what Harold Robbins is to literature or Elton John to music. All are crypto-artistic successes that have been able to popularize their works, not on the basis of the · aesthetic merits of their creations, but by investing their works with slick contri­vances and kitschy gimmicks that appeal not to any intellectual or emotional energies, but to superficial sensibilities. In the end, they are not only neglecting the art forms that they are usurping; more to the point, they are damaging them. 
What we have here, this Black Sunday that everyone is standing in line for, is 'an archetype of the kind of film that currently retards artistic evolution in Hollywood. It meets all the requirements. There is intrigue. Bruce Dern and Marthe Keller are a pair of lovers that make a living by working as terrorists. They have contrived a plan to kill85,000 spectators at the Super Bowl by detonating 220,000 rifle darts from the Goodyear blimp. 
There are little pockets of accessory violence leading up to "the big one," occasional forays by terrorists in Beirut, an obscene test of the rifle darts on an innocent victim, and more. There is a love interest. Really there are two, one between Dern and Keller, and one incredi­bly strained platonic love-hate-respect deal between Keller and Israeli counter­terrorist Robert Shaw that has to be seen to be believed. 
There are flashy special effects and camerawork, the best coming at the end, as the blimp hovers near the Orange Bowl while Shaw dangles from a helicopter, trying to attach a skyhook to the derelict zeppelin. 
There are big-name actors. Bruce Dern has been kicking around for quite some time, a very capable actor who hasn't had a role worthy of him yet, unless you care to count The Great Gatsby. Marthe Keller, who showed promise as Dustin Hoffman's girlfriend in Marathon Man, does a Cornelia Sharpe (The Next Man) imitation here. Meanwhile, Robert Shaw is at it again, containing his tremendous abilities in a poorly-drawn, shallow role. Together, the three of them, Dern, Keller and Shaw, are distracted, distraught and determined characters, respectively. Dern is a former serviceman named Lander wallowing in the psychosis he acquired in a ~orth Vietna­mese prison camp. Keller and Shaw are paradigmatic terrorists, singly devoted to their opposite causes. 
That is what there is, all leading to the climax. The only thing Frankenheimer left out was the obligatory frontal female nudity, a mysterious omission. H he is ever going to become a prominent director in this new suspense mode, he is going to have to learn about the intrinsic merits of female nudity. 
That is what there is, I say. Let's consider what there isn't. There isn't any effort to get at motives. There isn't any attempt at depicting fears or frustrations or loves or respects or perceptions. Franken-
Sketches of Ambrosia 
Ambrosia was considered the nourish­ment of the Greek Gods. The Ambrosiana Library in Milan continued this tradition of things exquisitely pleasing to taste. It houses an extensive collection of sketches and drawings of the great masters. Included in the Library's holdings are Michelangelo pen and inks, Da Vinci drawings, and Durer etchings. 
All of those are fine openings for an exhibit. All of them (in photographic form) grace the Notre Dame Art Museum's new exhibit. Titled 'Ambrosiana Collection and Related Medieval Sculpture·, it compares large wood sculpture with-oversize repro­ductions of masterworks. The wood sculpture is mostly polychromed or silver­plated wood from Europe in the 11th and 12th century. 
Examine the technique used in the sculpture. Since most show their 800 odd years, their cracks and deterioration tell the secrets of their construction. Paint is peeling to reveal sanded wood or canvas stretched over wood and as a base for the paint. A South German piece from the 13th century allows one to see the canvas, wood, and techniques used to simulate jewels on this Madonna and Child sculpture. 
The change in sculptural style is made evident by the range of periods represen­particularly noticed because the subject of the sculptures is the same. All are the Madonna with the child Jesus on her lap. 
The variation in drawing themes con­trasts the single theme of the sculpture. The reproductions of manuscript leaves from the ninth t() the sixteenth century and master drawings from 15th to 17th century cover a wider range of themes. The breadth of the drawings inchide Bramante pen and inks and color illuminations of a 12th century "Book of Hours", a medieval prayer book. 
One immediately respects the taste and style of Fredrico Cardinal Borromeo, the man who began the Ambrosiana Library Collection, from which these works were culled. In order to document the holdings of the Library the master works were photographed and catalogued. These photographs were enlarged and became this exhibition. Sears Bank exhibited the photographic reproductions during Christ­mas. Notre Dame Art Gallery hosts the display until late May. 
The reproductions and sculpture are enjoyable in themselves but they lack explanation. The shows title doesn't explain why the sculpture contrasts with the medieval manuscript leaves. • But where is the foil to the Renaissance heimer doesn't even appreciate the latent horror of what he is showing. Instead of concentrating on the ominous (and rather good) image of the blimp, floating quietly and unnoticed over Miami, laden with a brilliantly brutal piece of weaponry, Frank­enheimer constantly cuts to the game (authentic footage from last year's Super Bowl), the unknowing security men in the stadium, and the President's box on the SO-yard line, scoring the thing all the while with the cacaphonous percussions that John Williams had left over from his score for Jaws. 
All this nasty business about John Frankenheimer, this unprovoked ad hom­inurn attack, is intended not as the derogation of one filmmaker, but as a scolding to the people responsible for the obstruction of the development of the most popular and viable art form we have. These are the people who content themselves with ignorant conceits like Black Sunday, who continue to line up for films that can earn no higher accolade than "It was really neat." Audiences are being led by the nose more and more, just as they are led to the final inevitable conclusion in the films that exploit the abhorrent lack of discrimi­nation in audiences. There is a vast abyss between the willing suspension of disbelief and the abandonment of aesthetic demands. So, as more Black Sundays roll out of the lots, as more lines form, conscientious filmmakers with authentic artistic visions are left to ponder the sterile conflict between popular entertainment and meaningful film. 
drawings are exposes of drawing technique 
and handling of line. But the scuipture 
doesn't fit in and the connection between 
the two media would be incomprehensible 
to the commonplace observer. 
The show could be called enjoyable but not understandable. Those interested in the medieval and Renaissance masters of the drawing art should stop in O'Shaugh­nessy's main hall and visit the gallery. Likewise for sculpture buffs enjoying Early Christian works. There is plenty to look at. Every corner is chock full of meandering pen and inks or gilt saints. So stop in for the visual pleasure but don't expect much enlightenment from this exhibit, one that shows so much but explains only a little. Addenda: It should also be noted that this show is a memorial for Fred Giessel, museum preparator for 13 years, who died 
~YINWYIIMIIWY.MWY.MN....MN._..MNatted. The evolution of sculptural· style is drawings of Michelangelo? The master last week. 
-----------~---------------------------------------------------~--------­
r 
the observer Monday, April4, 1977
8 

~~----------------~--~~--­
, 
r 
Hijacker had 'nothing better to do'
r 
bY. F .T. Macpeely 3~ passengers was hurt as Nance in Orlando, pulled the gun about 19 wanted more whiskey and the town of Bayard, officers shot out fired over the head of one woman miles south of St. Augustine. driver agreed to stop and get it. the left front tire and the bus pulled
Associated' Press Writer 

and emptied his .38 caliber pistol "He was asking the driver how Nelson said. the driver had to the side of the highway along a JACKSONVILLE, Fla. (AP) -A out the windows and into the to make connections for Arkan­alerted police when he bought stretch of thick, swampy woods. sas," said Mary Moore of Clear­bourbon the first time, and officers About 40 officers surrounded the
gunman who had "nothing better ground, authorities said. 
to do" commandeered a Grey­Nance was overpowered by an water, Fla., a passenger. "The were at the Gator Truck Stop about bus and four of them began hound bus yesterday, threatening agent who had talked his way driver asked him very politely not 25 miles south ofJacksonvillewhen negotiations. FBI agent Jim Orr passengers, shooting out windows aboard the bus after police shot out to smoke in that area of the bus." Jones pulled in. said he managed to talk his way and demanding whiskey. He held a tire and surrounded the vehicle. Mrs. Moore said, "The hi-jacker ''The hi-jacker was very upset aboard the .bus and demanded 
the terrified passengers hostage for Nance told reporters, "I had asked, 'Have you ever been hi­when the driver didn't come back," Nance hand over the gun. two and a half hours before being nothing better to do--seriously." jacked before?' and the driver Mrs. Moore said. "He picked a "He backed up and opened the 
overpowered by an FBI agent. Undersheriff John Nelson said replied, 'No.' Then the hi-jacker young boy, put the gun to his head cylinder of his weapon," Orr said. 
Ronnie Thomas Nance, 28, of Nance told the driver, Robbie L. said, 'Well, you are now.' and said, 'I'll blow his brains out.' "I grabbed the weapon and kept Winter Garden, Fla., was charged Jonas of Savannah, Ga., that he driver was very cool and got off He fired a shot over a woman's charging, pushing him into the with 39 counts of kidnapping after had domestic trouble and wanted to whiskey station to get the ni-JacKel head and others through windows. seats. Then Sgt. Nathaniel Glover the early morning incident aboard get to Arkansas fast--for reasons he some bourbon he wanted.' But he let some people get off to and I subdued him." 
She said as the bus went rnr·m••rn look for the driver. He held a gun Melvin Mauldin of Concord,the Orlando-to-Toronto bus as it didn't explain. 
traveled along U.S. 1. Neither the driver nor any of the 
'Hazardous air' signs may be required someday 

WASHINGTON (AP) -'Caution: , breathing here could be hazardous to your health.' Road signs bearing such a message may someday be posted in cities and industrial areas 
not  meeting  federal  clean  air  
standards.  
It is just  one  of  a  number of  

amendments adopted by a Senate committee rewriting the 1970 Clean Air Act. A House subcommittee is also working on a similar revision and floor action in both chambers is scheduled for later this spring. 
Although the clean air bills contain myriad proposals affecting air pollution, most attention thus far has been focused on new auto emission standards. 
U.S. auto makers claim they cannot possibly meet the tough new tailpipe emission standards set to take effect later this year on 1978 models that will soon be rolling off Detroit assembly lines. 
The Carter administration and congressioal leaders agree and some form of extension · seems assured. 
But disputes over the non-auto parts of the bill killled a congres­ional effort in 1976 to extend the auto emission dealdlines and are again threatening to delay action. 
If Congress fails to act this year, the auto industry could face !10000 per car fines for failure to comply with the standards contained in the existing law. 
The 1976 legislation, worked out by a House-Senate conference com­mittee, would have extended exist­ing standards for most auto pollu­tants until model year 1979. 
But a Senate filibuster waged against the measure by Utah senators unhappy with a provision on stationary pollution sources Nelson said the incident began St. Augustine and rolled in my face and asked if I could drive N.C., said it was his second 

when Nance, who boarded the bus along U.S. 1, Nance the bus." hi-jacking, the first being on an She said no, but police said airplane seven years ago. "I was Nance got another passenger to more frightened this time," he drive. On the southern edge of the said. 
Applications now being accepted for editorial board positions for 1977-78 
SCHOLASTIC 
Managing Editor News Editor 
Design Editor ·Culture Editor Lay-out Editor Sports Editor Produdion Manager Business Manager Copy Editor Advertising Manager Photography Editor Circulation Manager 
APPLY NOW! DEADLINE ­
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 6, Spm For more information contact Kathv McEiro , 7569 or6865. 
Balance due on formal by thursday 
Flower orders and final seating ..... arrangements should now be made 
NO orders or seating· requests to 
be taken after thursd
Brisk spring winds brought out a few kites yesterday. [photo by Leo 

THE
N.D. sponsors 
NATIONAL
counseling 

THEATRE 
competition 

COMPANY 
A team of students from the 
killed the bill in the waning days of University of Idaho College of Law the 1976 session. 

won first place this week in the National Client Counseling compe­tition conducted at the Notre Dame Law School.
SU~d.rectorshlp Michael Gillespie and Steven Hoskins represented the eighth 

Shakespeare
still disputed region in the competition sponsor­ed by the Law Student Division of the American Bar Association. 
(continued from page 1) 

Tim Eaton and Ronald Spears of decision was made last Wednes-Southern Illinois University School 
is Alive SWell
day,' he said. of Law placed second, and Carl 
As it stands now, neither Gryp Wilkerson and Terrell Roberts of nor Rooney can claim the SU Columbus Law School at Catholic directorship. Whoever is selected University, Washington, D.C .. won though, faces yet another set of third place in the competition. 
Sliving in America
complications. Other regional winners attending 
The SU director must be appro-the Notre Dame event were Univer­ved by the incoming Board of sity of Wyoming, McGeorge School Commissioners. The Board con-of Law at University of Pacific. sists of the SBP; SBVP; SB Albany Law School, ·university of Treasurer; HPC chairman and North Carolina, Texas Tech Univer­
three representatives from the sity, and Capital University. Student Life Council (SLC). Judges for the competition in-TUESDAY Spm
The new chairman of the HPC eluded several members of the wilJriot bechosen until April 12, and board of governors or house of on April 13, Bender plans to submit delegates of the American Bar 
O'Laughlin Auditorium Aud. 
a proposal to the University B«lard Association. The Idaho team was of Trustees to abolish the present accompanied by Associate Profes­
$2.00 ND-SMC $3.00 General
SLC. If this occurs, the Board of sor Michael L. Beatty, while T. Commissioners will need . to be Richard Mager represented South­restructured and final approval' of ern Illinois, and John P. Domin­
sponsored by: Cultural Arts Dance and Drama Series 
the Student Union's new director guez ·served as moderator for the may be delayed indefmitely. ..Columbus team. tt::·==========:;:::::::::;:::=:::::::;::::::::;:::::::;::::;:::::.:::::.:::::.:::=::::.:::::.:::::::::.::;::::::.:::::.::::;:::::.:::::.::::;::::;::::;::::;;±l 
·--•_. •.•,t~·Jt/';.•.,•,.•.,j<l•-.,"'~ .1'.f ,j• ..r...,"'i-J'"__,.~·",.J.J"J ~ -J I .1~--~.-J".."_..> .... .., o: ~.~ ~,.· .'11.-1.!1 ~· •·•: #.II .<1_'!1.11.•' _.-" J1 ••.. • ,_.. ,. ,. t :fl •./6/t t'NIIJ • ~!I ... -·" •" ,• ....,. J. 

;ang up your Hangups is a weekly feature sponsored by the Ombudsman Service. 
1] Where can I call to get today's weather reporH 
For the weather forecast in South Bend call 232-1121. If you only want the time and temperature, call 234-7121. If you're unhappy with the South Bend weather forecast, try just For the Record for some Weather Report we are certain you'll enjoy. 
2] Playing downhill racer on my Raleigh ten speed, I made contact with a gargantuan doghouse and its inhabitant. Any mechanical mentors available to restore my Raleigh~ 
We'll table our original recommendation to consult a taxidermist. Pre-mechanic intents on campus tell us they are two-tired to tackle repair jobs. Morgan Cyclery (272-8031) at 431 Dixieway and Dan's Bike Shop (289-9601) at 2110 W. Western Avenue offer reasonable services for the dismembered bicycle. Now to get there..... need the number for a hearse??? 
3] I have some forms that need to be notarized. Can I get this done on campus? 
Yes, you can find more than one Notary Public on the campus: *Betty Fitterling -Office of INternational Students (located in the basement of LaFortune). *Billi~ and Marge -Room 315 of Administration Bldg. *Mr. Faccenda's secretary -Room 306 of Admin. Bldg. 
These Notary Publics may be consulted Monday through Friday during regular business hours. The charge for this service is usually one dollar. 
4] I am a sober student by day and inebriated sot by night. Whom do I call to defend my rights pending arrest for public drunkeness1 
Call Mike Arruda of the Legal Aid and Defender Association Monday-Friday from 1:00 to 5:00 p.m. The office number is 7795 or walk in a straight line to the basement of the Law School. The office is clearly discernible to all sober students. 
***************************~•**************** 
Pop Quiz: Kakopraxion is a word of Greek origin meaning: 
a) 
a dance performed by a small group in a circle 

b) 
one who picks their nose 

c) 
a cocktail served in Crete 


d) 
the word is really of Latin origin and refers to the right of a ruler to tax property. 

e) 
nickname of a professor in the Classical Language Dept. 


·q S! JaMsu-e <~4l 'Jouo4 s ,lnOJs ·a Jo 'p'J'-e lON :JaMsuy 
Professor given fellowship 
An assistant professor of chemis­try, Xavier Creary, has been named by the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation of New York to receive on of their fellowships for basic research. The fellowships run for two years in varying amounts averaging about S3,200 a year. 
Sloan fellowships were estab­lished in 1955 as a means of stimulating advances in fundamen­tal research by young faculty scientists at a time in their careers when government support is diffi­cult to obtain. Their research is expected to advance the frontiers of physics, chemistry, mathematics · and neuroscience. 
Creary joined the Notre Dame faculty in 1974. He received an · undergraduate degree at Seton Hall University and his doctoral degree at Ohio State University. 
GREYHOUND 
Easter buses to CtiiCAGO Leave N·D· main circle Wednesday, April 6 5:45pm Thursday, April 7 5:45pm TICKETS 
Jne Way $7.40 qound Trip (good on any returning bus') $14.10 Call Tom at 8338 for seat · reservations before Tuesday Midnight ou MUST have a reservation to buy a tick 
Monday, April 4, 1977 the observer 
9 
_, 

Sixty injured in IRA riots 
PORTLAOISE• Ireland [AP] ­Hundreds of Irish Republican Ar­my sympathizers fought pitched battles with riot police outside the Irish Republic's maximum security prison here yesterday during a rally in support of 20 IRA inmates staging a hunger strike. 
Police said at least 60 persons, including ten officers, were injured in the clashes, the most violent eruption of support for the out­lawed IRA'smilitant "Provisional" wing in more than a year. A spokesman said at least a dozen rioters were arrested. 
More than 1,000 IRA supporters, many of them from Northern 
lt"hn•ll•••ffnnv•lll~ 
'IIEPAIII! FOil: 
~·l!>.M·~ 
GMAT • GRE • OCAT 
Wll' • SAT 
ECFMG ·FLEX NATL MEDICAL BOARDS NAT\ DENTAL BOARDS 
Out Oroad rangt: or orograms pt0111des an umbr~llil of le\1 .nq 1111ow-nnw ,,., enaolas us roo""' the oest fllf'f)ali"'nr' ;J~aoiJtliP nn ma,pr wt11ch roursft r.S ,.IIP.n OvPt J8 yt~arr. nl e•oeroPnrf' ano success Sm,,ll ("1,1SSes Vnlumrnous home studv ..,aterrall CnursP'I !hat 11'" r:nn,.t,tn!lv up dated Perma"E""I t:Pnlers opPn days Pv1!"'"95 ,I, WPf'k 
ends all Year ComptPte tape li\Crlotoes rnr rev1PW ()I c. lass lf!SSO,.,s anCI lru use nt supi)IPmf'~l,try matprrals Mah!' ups tor mrSSPd lessons at our Cftntprs 
SPRING,SUMMEBlWINTER COMPACTS MOST CLASSES-~ WEEKS BEF.EXAM 
COURSES SOON TO COMMENCE; 
GRE-LSAT-GMAT-SAT 
20!>0 W. Devon ~­
Chicago. Ill. 60645 13121 764 5151 

Ctnttn•nMIIO' US Ct!IU 
•ndtullflf!S••I:r•llntl 
Ireland, massed outside the pris· on's main gate in this little town 45 miles west of Dublin. 
The almost exclusively Roman Catholic IRA is fighting in Nortern Ireland to end British rule and Protestant domination of that prov­ince. They seek to unite it with the Republic. 
More than 600 Provisionals are behind bars in the Republic in a government crackdown on the il­legal movement. 
The rally was organized by Sinn Fein, the IRA's legal political IrOn, in support of the IRA inmates in the prison who have been on hunger strike demanding better conditions· for 27 days. Ten of the hunger: strikers have been hospitalized in' poor condition. 
Police said the fighting began when 200 riot-helmeted policemen blocked the IRA supporters' way to the prison gates. Rioters hurled bottles and stones and tried to force their way through with a tractor and trailer. 

The Knights Men's Hairstyling 
Treat yourself the month of April with a styled haircut and blowstyle combination, and receive a free condition! It will give you back that natural sheen that the winter months have deprived you of. This is a $13.00 value for $8.50. 



MiaaJeanie MiuCoDDie 
~~-~~~uttn'~ (a~tlt 
54533 TERRACE LANE 
Tues.• Wed., Set. 1:30 -s:ao. Thurs. I Fri. 8:30 -1:30 
277-1891 


lloly 1Veek Se~ces 
ll:OOpm Holy Week Meditations and Stations of the 
:ross--Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday . 
Wednesday of Holy Week 
7:15pm Tenebrae Celebrant: Rev. William Toohey, C.S.C 
Holy Thursday 
5:00pm Mass ofthe Lord's Supper Celebrant: Rev. William M. Lewers, C.S.C. 6:00pm-6:00 am Night Vigil and Adoration Evening Mass 
8:00pm Celebrant: Rev. Robert Griffin, C.S.C. 
Good Friday 
9:00am Morning .t'rayer Celebrant: Rev. Thomas Barrosse, C.S.C. 
12:00pm Stations of the Cross 
Celebration of the Lord's Passion 3:00pm 
Celebrant: Rev. James T. Burtchaell, C.S.C. Lord's Passion 3:15pm Celebrant: Rev. William Toohey, C.S.C. Lord's Passion 3:30pm Celebrant: Rev. Richard Conyers, C.S.C. Stations of the Cross !O:OOpm 
Holy Saturday 
Morning Prayer 9:00am Celebrant: Rev. Thomas Barrosse, C.S.C. 

ll:OOpm Easter Vigil · Celebrant: Rev. Eugene Gorski, C.S.C. 
Easter Sunday 
9:30am Mass-Celebrant: Rev. Joseph Carey!, c.s.c. 10:45am Mass-Celebrant: Rev. John C. Gerber, C.S.C. Mass-Celebrant: Rev. William Toohey, C.S.C. 
12:15 pm Vespers
7:15pm ,Celebrant: Rev. James T. Burtchaell, C.S.C. 
Jadin Hall Chapel 
3ACRED HEART CHURCH 
SACRED HEART CHURCH iACRED HEART CHURCH Keenan-Stanford Chapel 
lady Chapel iACRED HEART CHURCH St. Edward's Chapel SACRED HEART CHURCH · Walsh Hall Chapel Keenan-Stanford Chapel Cavanaugh Chapel 
Lady Chapel SACRED HEART CHURCH· 
SACRED HEART CHURCH 
SACRED HEART CHURCH : SACRED HEART CHURCH SACRED HEART CHURCH Lady Chapel SACRED HEART CHURCH 

CONFESSIO.r,,: during Holy Week at Sacred Heart Church are at 11:15 am and 5:00pm on Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday. Confessions will be at 7:00pm in the Confessional Room on Monday and Tuesday; at 8:00pm (after Tenebrae) on Wednesday, and at 7:00pm on Tllw...,., 
F~day, ~_!ld_~atur_day. ·'''" ~' ammtJI()J ··!I5oHr.fbbni O'>'(&bb ~r. t»ffi 
Jung Conference features 1Punch and Judy' 
[continued from page 3] 
Anthony introduced the main attraction, "Punch and Judy," advising the audience to ''take their minds and run'' from this disgusting, horribly blood-thirsty, not to mention a bit sexist" show and then gave a fanfare with a kazoo-like trumoet. 

Punch and Judy, puppeteered by McCormick, dramatized the antics of Punch, an "insatiable hedonist" and scoundrel who beats his wife, Judy and their baby with a big stick, ending the first act by behind the conference tried to bring together Jung's work in the sense of Jungian psychology and presented the new and unsettling directions moving out of the ma­trix." 
Kapacinskas named conference participant Edward Edinger as the main representative ofpureJungian psychology, with James Hillman and Rafael Pedraza as representa­tives of the newer archetypal psychology. He said the branches of Jungian psychology presented at the conference were the stood up to speak. He accompani­Arwin Vasabada, an Indian anal­other forms to create anew."
ed Anthony his juggler with a drum yst, compared Jung to a guru, who Hillman urged the participants,cadence, while the latter, dressed instead of building a system, analysts, clergymen and laymenin a yellow slicker, juggled three "allowed people to see." As to the from all over the U.S., to write tomatoes while eating them as an 
branches of Jungian psychology, Notre Dame officials in praise of epilogue to Saturday evening's Vasabada said, "The nature of the the University's sponsorship of theapple-eating and juggling. spirit is to create, destroying all conference. 
• SHAKESPEARE'S
··········t• ALIVE& WELL& • 

.LIVING IN • Juniors! 
AMERICA

1.........
_ 

ruthlessly beating Judy to death. The plot continues with Punch's incessant beating of blind beggars, her Majesty's police, gurus who preach repentence and doctors. 
Justice seems to win out with Punch behind bars, but he outwits the hangman by asking him to show how one should put the head into the noose and eventually fools the devil into taking the wrong body. Only the grisly image of his own conscience seems to have any power to curb Punch's love of mischief. 
After an informal question and answer session, McCormick <':}abo­rated on the archetypal nature of Punch, the prankster. He attribut­ed Punch's origin to that of a thirteenth-century Turkish monk. 
According to McCormick, Punch's 200-year history in Ameri­ca followed the figures' develop­ment in Italy, Germany, Holland, France and England. 
Kapacinskas closes conference 

At Sunday afternoon's summa­tion and concluding remarks of the four-day Jung Conference held in the CCE, conference chairman Kapacinskas from Notre Dame, told participants, "The fantasy McCormick Circus, the astrology presentation by Catherine de Jersey and the many diverse workshops. 
· An informal discussion by con­ference participants and the head speakers analyzed the four days of speeches and workshops. Confer­ence participants criticized the program for being too formal and esotericat first, but the overall consensus was that the "sharing_ of Ideas" proved benificial for every­one. 
Hillman, a leading depth psycho­logist from Zurich, reminded parti­cipants that what happens at a conference usually happens when the participants go home and termed the many activities as a "delightful circus for four days." 
Berry, a Zurich analyst, said she enjoyed the conference. especially the negative feed-back she receiv­ed. Pedraza, an analyst from Caracus called the conference ''a Dionesian dismemberment of con­sciousness" -"a consciousness without any center" and said he felt privileged to have been able to participate. 
The session's highlight occurred when McCormick, who had enter­tained participants Saturday even­ing with his circus an puppet show, 
Drought cuts conveniences for San Francisco tourists 
by Jack Schreibman Associated Press Writer 

SAN FRANCISCO (APJ -They don't give you water anymore when you sit down to eat at the Shamrock Chinese Restaurant. 
"No water unless thirsty," said proprietor Charlie Kwong. "We having a drought." 
In fact, the city -with half its normal rainfall this season -would be grateful if tourists, while leaving their heart, could drop off a glass or two of water before going home. 
San Francisco is in the grip of a two-year drought and Operation Strangle is on for every sink spigot, toilet tank, shower head and bath­tub in the citv. 
Every wa.ct user in the city ­everybody -has been ordered to cut consumption by 25 percent from the same period last year. 
The rationing order prompted feverish water-saving activity in the city's 2,026 bars, more than 2,600 restaurants and 126 motels and hotels which are host to 2.2 million visitors a year. 
At the Hyatt Regency hotel signs for the bathroom are being printed to inform guests they can save 26 gallons by taldng"wetdown" show­ers; that it's possible to take a bath in two inches of water; that 9Y2 gallons can be saved by using a glass of water to brush teeth; that five to seven gallons goes down the tubes with every flush. 
Plastic bottles have been in­stalled in all toilet tanks, along with water-cutting gadgets in shower heads and in faucets in the bars. · 
At the TraveLodge on motel row, proprietor Roo Fahlgren beamed at the damming device installed in a toilet tank. "It saves SO percent," he said, noting the new shower head rcstrictors, too. 
The Clift Hotel·., ehief_cngineers cut lluch time from eight seconds to five. for a '>aving~ of up to two gallon~ a flu'>h. 
Hut Waduwitz !>aid he's worried
....... ·-...~ . ~ ''" ,• :­
( ~ ­

about cooperation from high-pay­
ing guests. "If the guest wants to 
fill the bathtub, he fills it up, 
whereas you or I could get along on 
half a tub," he said. 
At the Jack Tar Hotel, manager Jack Morgan took this view: "All you can do is ask people to cooperate. Some people like to take two showers· a day. They're paying $36 to $40 for a room and they feel they can use it any way they see fit.'' 
No less concerned is Robert J. Sullivan, director of the San Fran­cisco Visitors and Convention Bur­eau. 
"We're all trying to educate the convention delegates in advance to go easy on the water when they get here, while at the same time telling them the water shortage won't prevent them from having a good holiday," he said. 
At the St. Francis, Gail Rosen­thal of Philadelphia observed, "It's awfully green around here for a drought, isn't it?" 
But Millie Facciolo of Pittsburgh, Pa., at the Hilton, said she recog­nized the problem. "Don't worry," she said, "folks like me will be willing to go along with water conservation measures. It's worth it to be here." 
N.D. Army ROTC placed second 
The Notre Dame Army ROTC drill Team, "The Irish Marauders,'' placed second out of 70 teams in the Infantry Drill Routine Platoon Competition held last Friday and Saturday at the University of Illinois in Champaign­Urbana. 
The team was commanded by Cadet Captain John Lawless, Jr.. a senior from Kensington, Md. The executive oflicer of the team is Lieutenant Geoffrey McKenzie. a senior from White Bear . Lake. Minn.
' • \. _,-,. ·_ ~ ··.s·~ ~ _, .... ~ .. ·... ~~~-.-.......-,' 
Special Mon.~ Tues. Taco Dinner $1.60 
d»'V~ 
/!lfr 2 \ 
rw...rro Lurs~l ~~/~EST5AN,
AJ/ 

'\~,.·~ ~ 
~ 
11 a.m. to 11 p.m. 233-0385 526 Western Ave., South Bend 

where do you want to go for senior trip?? 
Important information nite engineering
April 5 
aud.6pm 

please come! if unable to attend, 
contact Pat Flynn 1854 
OR Rose Appelbe 7983 
Glen mary Missioners 
Room 35-32 Box46404 Cincinnati, Ohio 45246 Name_______________ 
Address.________ City_________ Zip_________ 
State._________ Age 
2-YEAR NRoTc•..\-·>nr: , .•. 
0lBWm[b£iiB0WUIJ m~Y~Ymmumrnuu~ ~ . 
Immediate Benefits For Those Who Qualify 
•FULL 
TUITION FOR JUNIOR & SENIOR YEAR 

•ALL 
BOOKS 

•ALL 
EDUCATION, LAB FEES 

•$1 
00 MONTHLY SUBSIST ANCE 


A lot of mrnpaniP~ \\ill ofier you an important sounding 
titlr• Hut h11\\ nwm nffr•r _~·rii.J a n•ally i"mportant job".' In 1h• '\:1.. ••·. _~-.,u gf't on1 · "" ..;oon as .\'Oil 1 •arn your com· 
llli'-SIIIIt \ 1111• 1\Jih n·sponsihiluv .-\job that n•quirP~ skill and I• •;td, ·1 ,f1 If' \ inI• that·, 111111'\' than iust a job. ht>causp~ ,, .... d..,, ,, o~.i-. •'Ill tin 
IF THAT~ THE KINO OF JOB YOU'RE LOOKING F-OR CAll 
Lt. Commander Nelson 283-6442 



Quick as a Dodo is a novel recently published by N.D. professor Ralph Maclnerney. (photo by Leo Hansen) 
U. of Chicago prof lectures 
John G. Cawelti. University of Chicago professor and co-director of the National Humanities Insti­tute. will discuss "Spacemen and Pornographers: Changing Myth· ologies of Popular Culture'' tonight at 8 p.m. The talk in the Memorial Library auditorium is sponsored by 
Monday, April 4, 1977 the observer 1 1 
Student gov't positions named 
.~ntinued from page 1) 
the American studies department and is open to the public. 
One of the nation· s leading scholars in the area of popular culture, Cawelti is the author of the new "Adventure. Mystery and Romance," "The Six-Gun Mysti­que" and "Apostles of the Self­Made Man." 
mid-semester grading policy. Ben· der noted that sending mid-semes­ter grades home to the parents during the freshman year often placed unnecessary pressure on the student. 
As Academic Commissioner, Strigle will be a member of the Academic Council, which will meet in the future to consider the continuation of the 8 a.m. exam­ination schedule. Bender stated that Strigle will confer with the students that had researched the problem and University Provost James T. Burtchaell before taking a position on the matter. 
Alumni Representative 
Patty Dondonville will become Student Government Alumni Rep­resentative, a position Bender des­cribed as "one of the most impor­tant parts of our platform." Dondanville's chief responsibility will be the alumni newsletter, which will inform the Alumni Board on the activities of Student Govern· ment, and seek their support on major projects. 
"I think that the Alumni Board could influence the administration in a lot of ways,'' said Dondanville. "Student Governmnet can work with them on issues that we're presenting to the administration." She added that several members of the board were recent graduates interested in affairs on campus. 
Co-ex Commissioner 
Harold Jara has been appointed Co-ex Commissioner, responsible for relations between St. Mary's and Notre Dame. A major problem facing Jara is the shuttle between the two campuses, which has been a frequent target of complaints by students because of unreliable service. J ara expressed optimism 
about upgrading the timetable, and 
noted that transportation officials 
were interested in cooperating on 
improvement of the shuttle. 
Jara stated taht he hopes to 
"improve relations and increase 
social cooperation" between the 
two schools and described St. 
Mary's as "really responsive to 
getting things organized.'' 
J ara is also responsible for the 
co-exchange program between the 
dining halls, which he indicated 
would not undergo any major 
changes. He noted that a min'Jr 
reduction in the number of tickets 
available. however might be nec­
essary due to lack of demand. 
Student Lobby 
The Notre Dame chapter ot the Indiana Student Lobby will be headed by Mark Klein, who as­sisted outgoing director Jerry Klingenberger on the projects' unsuccessful attempt to lower the Indiana drinking age to 18 this year. Looking ahead Klein said, "we're optimistic. Jery laid down a really strong base in Indianapolis and there's a good chance it'll bass next year." 
While several Indiana univer­sities participate in the drinking lobby, Klein stated that Notre Dame had led the effort this year. He added that he will discuss the lobby with Klingenberger before deciding on ariy definite strategy. 
Two new positions created 
Bender announced the creation of two new cabinet offices, de· signed to mediate problems in certain specialized areas. 
Valerie Hardy, a candidate for Student Body President, will be-
Archives center 
announces 
new series 
A new publication series, The Notre Dame Studies in American Catholicism, has been announced by the University's Archive/Center for the Study of American Catholi­cism and the Notre Dame Press. An annual competition is planned to select the best book-length manuscript for publication in the series. 
Authors of manuscripts selected for publication will receive a $500 award as an advance on future royalties. Deadline for submitting publications will be Octoberl and winners will be announced each year on February 1. · Publications submitted for jud­ging must be pertinent to the study of the American Catholic experience, past or present. The series will have a social science emphasis, but will not be limited to any one discipline in this area. Unrevised dissertations normally will not be considered. 
Scholars interested in entering 
the competition are asked to send 
one copy of their manuscript to 
Archive/Center for the Study of 
American Catholicism, Room 
1109D. Memorial Library. 
come Interracial and Social Con­cerns Representative, ''working for social justice on and off campus," according to Bender, who noted that University President Fr. Theo­dore Hesburgh had expressed in­terest in several of teh themes mentioned in the Hardy campaign, particularly the need for lobbying in areas beside the drinkin_g age. 
Anne Thompson, former _pres· s­iderit of Lewis Hall, will assume a positior;t in the cabinet dealing with problems arising from coeducation at Notre Dame. Thompson will . attemot to resolve oroblems 'lrising among men's and women's halls ~ · concerning the planning of social activities, prOtilems with campusIijliffiig, development of women's sports, and other situations per­taining to coeducation. 
Special Projects Coordinators 
Jim Seifert and Wally Saad will share the duties of Student Govern­ment Special Projects Coordinator, a position formerly held by Student Body Vice-President Tom Soma. Each is a sophomore with back­grounds in Zahm Hall government. 
Bender commented that Saad and Seifert have "good balance work­ing together" and would be relied on to provide "innovative ideas of their own" relating to Student Government projects. 
-Also named to assist cabinet officers in their duties were three administrative assistants, Rick Pin­kowski, John Ryan and Dave Scobee. Pinkowski will be assigned to assist Gill in his duties as Executive Coordinator, while Ryan and Scobee will work with Bender. All three_\Vi.ll be available to any 
cabinet officers when necessary. 
61 mph winds may loosen tower on Sacrec:t Heart 
Winds of up to 61 miles-per-hour may have loosened one of the four towers surrounding the main steeple of Sacred Heart Church. 
The loose tower, which was detected by a student from Lyons, was then barricaded by the Notre Dame security. Father Jerome Wilson, director of physical plant management, reported that the tower would be tightened in the near future and that the area around Sacred Heart Church would remain barricaded if the heavy winds persisted. 


NOTICES 

Check yoru portfolio now! ND Mock Stock marKet :s stilt nere! 10-3 Old 
Bus. Bld'l. 
Tockets tor the sunday April 17 Led Zeppelin concert "' Market !.quare 
Arena in lndo~ ..-~olls and the. Thursday Apr.I 14 Rusn and Starcas­tle concert at Ft. Wayne Coliseum are now on sate at Just tor the Record, 100 Center Underground Ill Mtshawaka 
SUMMER EUROPE FARE: From S287 to 379 long and snort duralton flights weekly departures available. Call Henn 287-1198 anytome 
The annual $1 00 ott and tree papers sale i5 Tuesday April 5 at Just lor the Record, I 00 Center under­ground fro-n € am til midnight! No lrmit on albums plus free music and refreshments. 
Accurate, Fast typrng. Mrs. Dono­
ho. 232-0746. Hours 8 am to 8 pm 
EUROPE WORLDWI-DE academic discounts year round SATA 4228 First, Tucker, Ga. 30084 (800 l 241 9082. 
ND finance club is bullish on America! Mock Stock Market, 10-3 Otd Bus. Bldg. 
MORRISSEY LOAN FUND--No more loims to May '77 grads. All others: last application date is April 6, last day to pick up loan is April 7. LaFortune basement--11:15-12:15 M-F. $20-$150, one day wait. One percent interest. Due in 30 days. MAY '77 GRADS--All Morrissey loans must be paid by April13. 
Amtrak to St. Louis over Easter break -$33 round trip. Forms in Student Activities, LaFortune. 
Niles Auction. 802 Fort St 684-6954 or 684-4671 Auction every Friday, 
7:30. We buy and sell furniture. appliances, antiques. and misc. items daity_ 12' ;00 pm to 6 pm_ 
NEED TYPING? Executary. Inc. Professional Typrnn Serv•ce. 10 typists, various rvoestvtes Term oaoers · a·5 centc. a panP Resume• $2:oo a pa'le. Call 232-0898 
Use the random walk tneory ano invest. Anyone can win! Mock Stock Market. 
Faculty' or staff wantin'l to sublet home or apartment during extended leave. Contact University Prates sional at 237 442 L 8 am to 5 pm. 
WANTED: Ride to Washington DC Wednesday or Thursday. Call Ellen 7874. 
APPLICATIONS NOW BEING AC­CEPTED For Sunwrer 1977 and A.c;ademic year 1977-78 lor Moscow, Leningrad, London, Pans, Diton, 
Nice, Salamanca, Vienna, Aorence, Perugia, Geneva, Copenhagen, Am­sterdam. All subjeds lor all stu­
dents in good standing. Accredited university courses. 4, 6, 8-week summer terms or quarter, semester, full year terms. summer from $710. Year term from $1590. CONTACT: CENTER FOR FOREIGN STUDY S,AY Admissions--Dept. M 
216 S. State, Box 606 Ann Arbor, Michigan 48107 313-662-5575 
CONTACT LENS WEARERS: Save on your hard and soft lens supplies. Send 13 cent stamp for price list . Contact Lens Supplies, Box 7453, Phoenix. Arizona 85011 
FOR RENT 

Rooms tor rent this summer. Very reasonable, and just a lew blocks from Noire 'Dame. Phone 277-3604. 
Classified Ads 
J Bedroom furnished apartment 
wrthrn walkrng drstance of campus. 
Call Witlram Hrll, 232'172d. 
Rent mu uostatrs. $40. per month. 
C.all233-l32~. 
Two bedroom house to rent. Sum mer and or school year. 1012' Eddy S1. $120 per month plus utilitres. Call Oddies Harris at 232-8563. 
5 Bedroom House real nice, large lrviiln room and kitchen, tully furn­ished. close to campus, has burglar alarm. call Charlie Moore, 272-7180. 
summer rental and or next academic year. Great house. 8 rooms fully furnished. 4 bedrooms, 2 baths. Washer, dryer--larg~ lawn. Near Jeff-Eddy. 234-1972. 
Available tor Fall Semester: excellent houses rn tine nieh'lbor­hoo~-Each ideal for 5-6 stud-ents. 1021 DeMaude and 1016 Lincoln Way West. Call Mr. Gatto 234-6688. 
LOST AND FOUND 
Found· Pair of glasses behind En'lineering Bldg. Calt Mike at 89.53. 
Reward tor 5 year old silver Seiko watch lost in Ace before break. Much sentimental value. Larry 287­8301 or return to lost and found. 
Lost: Len inger's Biochem book on 2nd floor Library--DESPERATELY need it! Please call Diane 1329. 
Texas lnstrumenls SR-51 11 calcula­lor lost in freshmen Chern Lab. Substantial reward lor relurn. No questions asked. Call Mike 8327 
WANTED 
wanted: Ride to New Jersey on Tuesday or Wednesday, April 5 or 6. Call Val8125. 
Need ride to and trom Miami for Easter break. Can leave Wed. ntgnt 1am desperate--call1424 and ask tor 
Bob.  
wanted: riders Easter. Call Cami to DC lle 4829.  area  tor  
DESPERATELY  NEED  RIDE:  TO  

wichita, Kansas for Easter. Diane 4-4348. 
Need ride to and from Ft. Lauder­dale area for Easter break. Can leave Wed. Will help with expenses. Please· contact Cris i-4983 or Beth 4-4992. 
wanted : Married couple (one child okay) 1o live in, and be companions to three teen-age boys. Room and board in exchange. Would be re­quired to cook family dinner, do light housework and do minor hosue repairs. Exchange references. Call 288-1411 or291-1814. AsklorJoan. 
FOR SALE 
For Sale: '69 Buick Opel. Kadett. Good Condition. Dependable. Best Otter. 277 0352. after 5 pm. 
PERSONALS 
Chris and Happy, Guess what d"Y it is? Con;lratpl~tions! : :dvt:" a ho~py lite. Clutch 
197 6 SM C 'lraduale lookrnn lor serious emplo-ymenl One dude lo'' a good deal. Debbie 312 281' 7439 
Freshman Formal April 16th --1 am ACC Concourse Room. For Tickets and information contact your Fresh· man Hall Rep. 
Today is Marylou W a Ish (353 Far­ley) 21st Birthday (and never been kissed! l 
HEY FRESHMEN! IT AINT TO LATE TO ASK THAT DATE!! 
Joe Arkie-My thoughts are with you on your day ...Wish I were too. Happy 23rd and hurry home. Love, Snow 
TO WHOM IT MAY CONCERN-­Big News Brewing 
Feeling Depressed? ND-SMC hot­1ine 4-4311, open nights. 
FREE BARNEY 
Hurry! Sale at Leather Banana ends April 6. Call 259-1060 tor info. 
To "The Dick"--Just wanted to thank you for a wonderful time at the Sophomore parents weekend dance. Hope we can do it agein. Love, Bill 
J.A. P. 1really do appreciate the fact you .:arne up here. Your face looks wonderful, I'm glad we've been so near. Thanks tor seven great months 1love you. Ryan 
Quick as a Dodo. neve by ND prof. Ralph Maclnerney, published by Juniper Press, is the perfect Easter nrt•. Now available at the Notre Dame Bookstore. 
Mary No more incest. Pillow tr<lh'rn'l is-morefun. GMAN 
t t,.-"fted Ads Deadline i5 1 :00 pm ""'' :Jdy pnor to publication. Office '''"", drt' I0:30am to 5 pm. Class•­
." .· .11'<' not t.lken at111qht. 

by Paul Stevenson Sports Editor  than normal, but we want to be ready for our game on Wed­nesday."  second team was performing better as a unit than the number one squad.  seems to be quite a bit of retet~n from last year." The play was not the best ever to  going to have some foul-ups,''· Devine noted. · The Notre Dame football team  
The Fighting Irish gridders held their first scrimmage of the spring season· this past Saturday on Car­tier Field. "The play was typical for the first scrimmage of the spring,'' Head -Coach Dan Devine com­mented. "We went a little longer  The Irish football team will hold their annual Easter Egg Bowl in Notre Dame Stadium this Wed. at~ p.m. The scrimmage will be played upder game conditions, with the exception that there will not be any kick-offs. In Saturday's scrimmage, the  "Overall, the second unit played better than the first unit for the talent they had," Devine stated. The beginning of the scrimmage found the number two offense pitted against the number one defense. Quarterback Gary Forystek t'ound receiver Speedy Hart for a 60  be displayed on a football field. However, for a scrimmage which ended the first week of drills, there were only a limited number of errors. "When you are missing a few people and you have others playing different positions, you are always  practices every weekday on Cartier Field at 4 p.m. All practices are open to the public. The scrimmage this Wed., along with the Blue-Gold game, which will be played Apr. 30, are open to the Notre Dame student body free .of charge.  
yard touchdown pass.  
"It was a perfect pass and a good ·  
catch," Devine reflected.  "How­ 
ever, you just don't like to see your  
number one defense get beaten like  
that. That is just an instance which  
proves  why  you  always  have  to  
have a strong pass rush and good  
coverage in the secondary. ''  
Following the Forystek-Hart per­ 
formance, the number one offense  
had their chance to move the ball  
against tie number two defense.  
On their first play from scrim­ 
mage, halfback AI Hunter found an  
opening in the line and scampered  
40 yards downfield. Unfortunately,  
shortly after his long l'un, Hunter  
left the scrimmage because of an  
injured knee suffered during play.  
Being only the fifth day of spring  
drills, the players performed with  
exceptional precision and  were  in  
fine physical condition.  
"The players have been working  
hard  and  are  in  good  shape,"  
a 40 yard run, yet did scrimmage because of an injured knee.  not  finish the ·  Devine remarked. "Most of the squad has experience, and there  Rusty Lisch called the signals for Saturday's scrimmage.  the number one offensive unit in  


Irish gridders hold first scrimmage 
Monte Towle·:=:::=========~==:=================================================================·==============================================================================:================================·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=========·=·========================= 
American League West 
:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~: 
Texas? 
Not too long ago, the Oakland 

A's were the most colorful and 
successful franchises in the majors, 
and as a member of the American 
League West Division, the A.'s 
made for good public relations for 
that division, one that otherwise 
wallowed in the depths of mediocre 
and boring baseball. Well, 1977 
should be the year that the AL 
West takes its place among the 
major leagues; credit that to what 
should be a three or four team race 
to the top. 
Most baseball followers are sure 

to choose either the defending 
champion Kansas City Royals or 
the free agent-strengthened Calif­
ornia Angels as contending fav­
orites. However, a surprise may be 
in store for such preconditioned 
minds. That statement is in 
reference to the Texas Rangers. 
1. TEXAS -As soon as Texas Manager Fran!t Lucchesi recovers from the punch landed by discon­tent, overpaid, utility outfielder Lenny Randle, he should be set to lead the Rangers to the top of the AL West. This club has tasted first place for at least part of a season before and the list of added players for 1977 just might land Texas in first for good. 
Former Oakland A star, Claudell Washington joins another new arrival, Ken Henderson in the outfield with Juan Beniquez al­ready established in center. Wash­ington is soon to be one of the best . players in the game while H~nder­son is a good all-round player, maybe even the most underrated in the game. Tom Grieve (20HR, 81 RBI in 1976) will continue to 
concentrate on the DH role. 
Speaking of defense, glovework 

can be a nuisance for the Ranger 
infield although the addition of 
Bert Campenaris at. shortstop al­
lows Toby Harrah to move to third, 
a switch which the Texas man­
agement has longed for Rookie 
Bump Wills will be the se1ond 
baseman with Mike Hargrove try­
ing to loosen up his glove once 
again at first. Their defense may 
not be the best, but this infield is 
well worthy of batting comp­
liments, both Harrah (15 HR, 67 
RBI) and Hargrove (.287) posses­
sing strong credentials. 
The Ranger bullpen of Paul Lindblad, Darold Knowle~>, .Adrian Devine, Steve Foucault and Rogy 
·, 

Moret comprise an impressive crew. The picture also looks good for the starters with Bert Blyleven (13-16), Gaylord Perry (15-14) and Doyle Alexander (13-9) assured of a place in the starting rotation with Nelson Briles and Carl Morton, or even Moret, right behind. The AL's best defensive catcher Jim Sundberg, has to be looking for­
. ward to catching· for this staff. Certainly, a bright year for the Rangers and their fans. 
2. KANSAS CITY -The Royals came ever so close to reaching the World Series last year only to suffer a last inning loss at the hands of the Yankees. One cannot help but remember a disconsolate George Brett with tears in his eyes during a postgame interview with ABC's Warner Wolf. There'll be more tears this year with Texas on top, but K.C. won't be giving in too easily. 
To begin with, the Royals boast the two top returning hitters in the AL with George Brett and Hal McRae. Besides Brett at third base, the Royal infield is one of the best both offensively and defen­sively of all the teams. Slugging John Mayberry (9 RBI) is set at first with Frddie Patek (51 steals) at short and star fielder Frank White at second. 
McRae, when not the DH, will protect leftfield while Amos Otis (18 HR, 86 RBI) and quick-moving AI Cowens will occupy center and right, respectively. 
The Royals saw no pressing need to buy or trade for new players although the departures of AI Fitzmorris prompted the acquisi­tion of Jim Colborn (9-15) for the starting pitching ranks. He will be battling Dennis Leonard (17-10), Marty Pattin (8-14), Paul Splittorff (11-8), Andy Hassler (5-12), Doug Bird (12-10) and Larry Gura (4-0) for a place among Manager Whitey Herzog's starting crew, Herzog is especially hopeful of a successful recovery by Steve Busby, only two years ago a 20 game winner. Steve Mingori and Mark Littell are both good relievers. However, the Royals were by no means over­whelming last year and they are vulnerable to teams with the qual­ity of a Texas or California. 
3. CALIFORNIA -This is not to say that the Angels are only third best in the AL West when. in fact, they are probably on a par with Texas and Kansas City. California tied Texas for fourth last year andlike the Rangers, have strengthened themselves through off-season ac­quisitions. Mainly, we're talking about Joe Rudi, Bobby Grich and Don Baylor. 
None of these three rank as superstars although they probably rank near the best for their respective positions. Leftfielder Rudi is not only a great glove man but a strong hitter as well (94 RBI last year). He will be joined in the outfield by speedster Bobby Bonds and probably rookie Mike Easler, the American Association batting champ from a year ago. 
Baylor will alternate with Tony Solaita at both first base and DH. Grich, now at shortstop, should do well wearing a new uniform, espec­ially since he will be working with Dave Chalk at third and Jerry Remy at second, both of whom know what to do with a glove. 
The catching situation is still open although Manager Norm Sherry might be leaning toward Terry Humphrey. His even bigger problem will be finding pitching support for two of the best throwers in· baseball. Frank Tanana (19-10, 
2.44) and Nolan Ryan (17-18, 327 K's) are back again. After that dynamic duo, ther is little else. Don Dirkwood (6-12), and Gary Ross (8-16) and promising Paul Hartzell (7-4) should begin a lot of games and hopefully, finish them as well. That's because the Angel bullpen is but . a figment of the imagination. Try to imagine a team with little in pitching winning a division title. 
4. MINNESOTA -The Twins finished strong in 1976, ending up third only five games beind the champion Royals. The off-season loss of top reliever Bill Campbell to the Red Sox is certainly a big one, one that will send the Twins falling into fl'Urth. 
Ft·~m the days of Harmon Kil­lebrew, Tony Oliva and Bobby Allinson to the present, the Twins have featured good hitting and 1977 promises to include more of the same. First baseman Rod Carew has won five batting titles, barely missing his sixth last year. But he did drive in 90 runs, an amazing stat for a spray hitter. Other big run producers include outfielders Larry Hisle (96 RBI) and Dan Ford (86 RBI). They will need to repeat those numbers with Steve Braun's bat no longer around for support. Lyman Bostock (.323) was fourth in the AL batting race and is a budding superstar. 
Owner Calvin Griffith deserves credit for the Bert Blyleven trade of a year ago which brought Roy Smalley, Mike Cubbage and Jim Gideon to the club. Smalley has planted himself at shortstop as has Cubbage at third. Bobby Randall also returns at second base and although he is as shaky a fielder as both Smalley and Cubbage, his fielding figures to improve with experience along with the others. 
1976 rookie catching sensation Butch Wynegar will be working with a thin pitching staff that has Dave Goltz (14-14), Pete Redfern (8-8) and Jim Hughes (9-14) as the only set starters with Gideon probably on his way up from the minors. Tom Burgmeier (8-1) will be the bullpen ace with Campbell gone. How about bringing back Mudcat Grant, Earl Battey and Zoilo Versailles? 
5. CIDCAGO -The White Sox will continue to do their best to main­tain the losing image · associated with sports teams from the Windy City. Not only will they fail to challenge for the top, they will be hard-pressed to beat out the Oak­land A's. 
Bill Veeck gave up Terry Forster and Rich Gossage for slugger Richie Zisk and that will undoubt­edly boost the run production. But like fellow outfielders(?) Ralph Garr (.300) and Chet Lemon, Zisk Jacks any defensive ability what­soever. 
The Chisox infield of Jim Spen­cer at first, Jorge Orta at second, Bucky Dent at shortstop and Kevin Bell at third is defensively-sound. Orta and Dent will have to regain their feel for hitting, the latter a big letdow!l in 1976. 
Manager Bob Lemon has to be worried about the defense con­sidering the joke of a pitching staff he will be working with. Wilbur Wood will have a hard time coming back from his knee mishap of a year ago, the stocky knuckleballer hav­ing to be one of the oldest 35 year olds in sports. Ken Brett (10-12), Bart Johnson (9-16) and free agent signee Steve Stone stand to do most of the starting. With Gos­sage, Forster and now Clay Carroll gone, the White Sox bullpen con­sists of Dave Hamilton. That doesn't say much for the Chicago White Sox. 
6. OAKLAND -This could be Charlie Finley's swan song as owner of the Athletics. It's only a matter of waiting before he sells the rest of his "team". 
The A's won't finish last al­though the Seattle Mariners will try to change that. There is a resemblance to a nucleus on this team with pitchers Vida Blue (18-13, 2.35), Mike Torrez (16-12, 
2.5) and Jim Umbarger (10-12), catcher Manny Sanguillen (.290), outfielder Billy North who led the A's with 75 steals and infielder Dick Allen. There are a few stragglers hanging around includ­ing Ken McMullen, Ron Fairly, Larry Lintz, Tommy Helms, Stan Bahnsen and Dick Bosman. Unfor­tunately for the A's, you don't win with such marginal talent taking up space on the roster. 
Yes, ladies and gents, this once was the most powerful team in all of baseball but the gems have all since been sold leaving Charlie Finley with a plethora of rookies, washed-up vets and offers for the purchase of the franchise. Good­bye, Charles Finley, it was nice while it lasted. 
7. SEATILE -Baseball returns tO' the city of Seattle via the expansion route. Pilot Darrell Johnson faces a tough test with this· young, raw talent. It will be the test of his managerial abilities. 
The Mariner pitching staff might be a strong one for the future with the likes of Glenn Abbott, Dick Pole. Steve Barr and Pete Broberg, all of whom are battle tested and yet all are 27 years of age or less. 
The outfield pastures will include Steve Braun (.288) over from the Twins and Lee Stanton, a former Met and later_11,n ~ngel. 
The infield situation is a wide open race among numerous young­sters with "veterans" Joe Lis and Bubplegum-blowing Kurt Bev­acqua looking for employment. Bob Stinson was considered the top man for the catcher's position at the start of spring training. In all, it's sure to be a long year of experimenta: 'n for Darrell John­son and his ~eattle team. 








