


server 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's
Vol. XII, No. 26 Tuesday, October 4, 1977 

friday's thunderstorn threatened the football weekend, but the rains subsided for the duration of the first home game. [photo by Greg Solman ] 
Lighting problem investigated 
by Ann Gales Senior Staff Reporter 

Editor's Note: This is the second of a three part series discussing proposed solutions to the problem of the security for women on campus. The second article deals with the areas of lighting and communications. 
Lighting 

A major area of concern investi· gated by Students for Campus Security (SCS) was the lighting situation on the Notre Dame cam­pus. Paula Fulks, one of the organizers of SCS, said that she saw the need for a great deal of improvement in campus lighting. 
Fulks outlined a three-point plan suggesting various lighting im­provements. The plan, drawn up by scs members, was included in the five-part proposal recently sub­mitted to Dean of Students James Roemer. 
First, after surveying the campus lighting situation, the SCS plan recommended that a number of light standards be immediately installed. ''There are 17 places where we feel that it is imperative to install lights right away," Fulks stated. 
After these urgently needed lights have been installed, the SCS proposed that the University retain an expert to survey the campus lighting system and make profes­sional recommendations for im­provement. "Several years ago the University hired an expert to look at the lighting situation," Fulks explained. "He found that lighting had been done haphazardly using the wrong type of light bulb." 
Associate Provost Sr. John Mir­iam Jones confirmed that a lighting survey was recently undertaken, adding that the company who surveyed the lighting had recom­mended installation of a system that would cost $1 million. She described the figure as "totally unacceptable.'' 
The SCS recommended that a second lighting expert be retained "to see if the first one was out-of-line," according to Fulks. 
The third point of the proposal of the SCS advocates that the Unlver-I sity establish a firm timetable and financial sources for implementing the recommendations made by the lighting expert. Fulks commented that approximately $3 million in endowment for maintenance of the campus is set aside each year and said that she did not "see why some of this money couldn't be used for the improvement of the lighting system.'' ' 
Jones, who last year chaired a committee to evaluate co-education at Notre Dame, described the present lighting situation as ad­equate in some parts of campus and needing improvement in many others. "We have made progress," she said. "In the past five yea.rs 40 or SO light standards have been added and the intensity of the lights has been improved.'' 
Arthur Pears, director of Notre Dame security, agreed that lighting has been improved considerably in the last five years. ''The lighting is not good all over, but we've come a long way," he commented. 
One of the complaints of the SCS concerned the problem of burnt-out bulbs. Fulks said that one night she counted 13 burnt-out light bulbs on campus. 
While admitting that security has a problem finding out when bulbs need replacement, Pears maintained that his department does all it can to keep the situation under control. "When my men see a burnt-out bulb they file a report immediately," he said. 
In the last 30 days, however, 115 such reports have been filed. ''We report it when we see it,'' Pears stated, "but we have no way of knowing when a light will burn out, just as you couldn't say when the light in your room will burn out.'' 
Included in the report filed by the Committee to Evaluate Co­education headed by Jones is a recommendation for more careful and consistent maintenance of campus lighting. 
Communications 

Three major suggestions for 
improvement of security in the area 
of communications were included. 
in the proposal submitted by the 
SCS. The first of these recommen­
dations was the installation of an 
extensive phone system on cam­
pus. 
• 
According to Fulks, phones should be installed at "key points of well-traveled paths all over campus." Several types of phones could be used, but some would be more feasible than others, she said. 
"Regular pay telephones, though they would cost the Univer­sity nothing, would be unworkable since a person in an emergency situation might not have 20 cents handy," Fulks noted. She said that there would also be a dialing problem with on-campus phones since it takes time to dial. One idea proposed by the SCS was to change the number of security to 1111 so that four taps on the receiver would activate the phone and connect the call to security. 
The system favored by Fulks, however, would require no dialing whatsoever. The "break-circuit" system consists simply of a receiver on a pole. "All a student in danger would have to do," Fulks explain­ed, "would be to lift the phone off the hook. This would notify security immediately of her loca­tion." 
Pears stated that the idea of installing an emergency phone system was surveyed about a year ago. "I think the idea is excel­lent," he commented, "but the cost is quite prohibitive." Pears also expressed concern about a­buse of the telephones, pointing out that the installment of a phone system at Wayne State University in Michigan resulted in a large amount of vandalism to the phones. 
The report on co-education filed by Jones and her committee last May recommended the installation of emergency phones in remote areas of campus. Jones said that she favored the recommendation for the phone system "as an added security measure." 
The second SCS proposal in the area of communications was a suggestion that Fulks described as "little, but terribly important." This was a recommendation to attach stickers listing the number of security to all telephones on campus. 
Thirdly, the SCS recommended that the University institute a massive WhistleStop program. ''WhistleStop is a program in 
[continued on page l] 

SG board allocates student activities fee 
by Barb Langhenry replacement and maintenance of News Editor the refrigerators Student Union bought last year. · The clubs received $7,800.00. 
The Student Government Board The following are all the clubs of Commissioners held budget which requested money and the hearings Sunday afternoon and amount they rr~ceived: American evening, and allocated $112,800.00 Chern. Society -$100.00; Black to Student Government, Student Cultural Arts Commission ­Union, the Hall Presidents Council $950.00; Celtic Society -$100.00; (HPC), Scholastic course evalua-CILA -$1,200.00; Circle K ­tion book and various clubs and $150.00; Dancin' Irish -$100.00; organizations last night. Freshman Advisory Council ­
Student Government received $200.00; German Honor Society ­$17,510.00, $690 less than last $100.00; Gospel Chorus -$200.00; year's. This money is used to pay International Students-$1,320.00; secretarial salaries, fund Ombuds-MECHA -$800.00; ND Crew ­man, and finance other operating $500.00; ND-SMC Council for the costs. Student Union received Retarded -$750.00; Photo Ouiilll $59,972.25, which covers the Soph-$100.00; Sociology Oub -Sl~ omore Literary Festival, speakers, Tae Kwando-$100.00; and WSND concerts, Homecoming, and other -$480.00. activities. Some of the allottments were 
HPC received $16,017.00, $8,000 earmarked for certain items. The of which will be distributed among International Students money was the halls. An Tostal, the annual earmarked for expansion of the spring festival, will operate on a International festival. Tobben and $7,817.75 budget. The HPC wa:s Bender stressed that "the 
also allocated a $200 fund for festival could be something big" emergencies. and include all international stu-
The Board, according to Pete dents. Tobben, student government The Photo Club's $100.00 is treasurer, developed a set of earmarked for plumbing and the factors HPC should consider when Gospel Chorus' money is earmark­the halls are deciding how much ed for sheet music. money they want. Bender stated Although WSND received money that they specifically stressed the from the University, they needed idea of developing social space. additional funds for general repairs 
Tobben said that student govern-and their $480.00 is earmarked for inent has talked about appointing a new microphones. "special arm of the treasurer's MECHA, an organization of office to do the leg work involved in· Latin American students, who had checking up on the halls and never received money before was making sure the money is spent given money becau¥ of their wisely." The HPC itself decides r-community service" projects, how the HPC money will be Bender noted. allocated, but they have no definite Right to Life had also never been policy, noted Student Body Presi-allocated money. The group will dent Dave Bender. "I think there use the money for hall presenta­is going to be a structure crack-tions and other informational pre­down on requests. I think all halls sentations. should have itemized requests,'' he The BCAC received $150.00 remarked. more than last year and impressed 
An Tostal' s allottment is the Board with their leadership and $3,317.75 more than last year's. willingness to work on racial at­Both Tobben and Bender stressed titudes, Bender stated. --He also that the An Tostal proposal was noted that they have many com­sound and demonstrated a genuine munity oriented projects. need. They stated that it convinced Source of fonds them that An Tostal could be The budget money comes from improved and involve more of the the $17.00 student activity fee, student body. amounting to $110,000.00 plus 
Bender noted that the An Tostal $(},800.00 from St. Mary's student Budget included expenses which activity fee, minus $4,500.00 which had not been covered before. had to be paid out in summer bills These expenses were previously for maintenance of the Student covered by students who were Union and Student Government involved in the planning. Bender Offices. cited Bookstore Basketball as an Any organization seeking funds example, stating that the director including Student Union, Student usually took up the slack of Government and the HPC, submit­advertising and paper costs. ted a summary of their organiza-
Fifteen -hundred dollars was tion's purpose, a financial report allotted to the Scholastic course [continued on page 2] evaluation which is scheduled to be printed this semester. The evalua­tion will be a revival of the course Fr. Griffin evaluation booklets the Scholastic 
·to celebrate

printed in the past. Tobben stated that they will decide whether to Grotto mass ­continue the project second semes­
Fr. Robert Griffin, Univer­ter if first semester works well. 

sity chaplain, will, ~e the 

The Board reserved $5,000.00 for celebrant of a grotto mass at a strategic cash reserve. Tobben JO p.m. Thursday, the Feast of stated that this amount would be the Holy Rosary, and the Glee assigned as Student Government Club will sing. -.. sees necessary. He also noted that Following the mass, every­the money may be assigned by one is invited to a party" at January. He stated that if it is not Darby's place to celebrate spent it will be put in the account Darby's (the place, not Fr. for next year. Bender stressed that Griffin's faithful companion) this money gives the budget mo~e 1 third anniversary. Darby's flexibility. wiH open at 11 p.m. instead of 
A refrigerator sinking fund was the usual midnight hour, and developed and ss,oon.oo was allo­short movies will be shown. cated to . it. This--iilna is 'for 
Tuesday, October 4, 1977 
the observer 



On Campus Today _ ___.._.. 
The deadline for On-Campus Today notices is 2 pm of the preeceding day. Notices reaching the Observer office after this deadline will not be accepted. Also, notices for this section may be submitted several days in advance. 
12:45 pm & 

interview, "thought you'd never ask," fr. toohe -11:~pm will interview bro. leo ryan, c.s.v., wsnd 640 am 
2 pm ;v football, nd vs purdue. 
J:JO pm computer course, math bldg. sponsored by the computer center. 
J:JO pm demonstration, instruction on suvon, lib. aud. 
4:15pm meeting, notre dame senior council, room 120, hayes-healy. 
4:JO pm seminar, ''the role of the carrier protein & esterases in the regulation of juvenile hormone titer," dr. peter e. dunn, purdue univ. rm 278 galvin ctr. sponsored by biology dept. 
7 pm meeting, math club, math and computing center, rm 226, all invited. 
7 pm lecture, "discovery of the treasures of king tut," by prof. robert leader, howard hall, sponsored by the howard hall academic commission .. 
7 pm meeting, cycle touring club, basement of Iafortune, all welcome. 
7 pm film, "the emporer," basement of Iafortune, free. 
7, 9:15 & film, "mash," sponsored by the rotc, eng. aud. $1 
11:30 pm 

7:15pm seminar, "the meaning of eucharist: structure and introductory rites," by fr. mahoney and fr. gallen, carroll hall. 
7:30pm opening meeting, ladies of nd, smc mixed chorus performance, lib. lounge aud. 
eucharist, charismatic eucharist, log chapel, open to all. 
8 pm film and discussion, "last grave at dimbaza," internationally acclaimed film on apatheid in south africa, arch. aud., sponsored by programs of black studies and african studies, no charge. 
9-11 pm nazz, open stage, basement of Iafortune. 
midnight midnight album, "the stranger" by billy joel, on wsnd &40 am. 
r%The Observerl Whistles warn 
Night Editor: Leigh Tunakan against attackers Asst. Night Editor: Tracy Her­man [continued from page 1) Layout Staff: ??? which all students would buy and Editorial layout: Judy Rup­wear a police whistle on a break­precht away chain,'' Fulks explained. Features layout: Dave 
"Whenever a student was inO'Keefe danger, she would blow her whistle Sports Layout: Greg Solman as well, so that the attacker would

Typists: Gwen Coleman, Sue know that someone else was awareScribn~r:l Mary Jo Cushing, of the situation. The second partyLisa Divalerio would then phone the police." 
Night Controller: Karen 
Lt. Joseph Molnar of the St.
Chiames Joseph Cou-nty Police described the Day Editor: Tom Nilsson; use of whistles as "an excellentLynn Roberts 

deterrent,'' as opposed to the useCopy Reader: Tom Byrne of weapons which ''more times that Ad layout: Renee Leuchsten not end up being used against the .~hotographer: Greg Trzupek J [continued on page 7] 





URBAN 
r ~ 
e 
z 
0 
tr1 


....... ,'P" .. r"' ··~·.-..• .............. ·-··~· ...........,......,-., ... ~·~..,.,., ..._.... •,e:-•,.-,-...,•.-L•A./A.IL'/·:.• .,, ..........., ..; 
Organizations receive funds 
[continued from pqe 1] 
from last year, last year's request­
ed budget, last year's actual bud­
get, their present budget request, 
and their reasons for wanting the 
money. The Board of Commission­
ers, whose members include Ben­
der, Student Body Vice-President 
Tom Soma, Tobben, HPC Chair­
man J.P. Russell and three SLC 
members -Pete Haley, Gary 
Lucchini and Terry Finnegan, re.. 
viewed these statements and lis­
tened to organization representa­
tives present their cases. 
Bender stressed that there were no specific criteria outlined for the money allottment decision~ He stated that the Board looked at the number of people in tlte organiza­tion and the number of people the organization affects. Bender noted that they want a maximum number of people to come into contact with what the organization is doing. 


Prayer group sponsors seminar 
The Notre Dame Charismatic Prayer group will be sponsoring a 'Life in the Spirit' seminar begin­ning Tuesday, Oct. 11. Those interested are invited to a prayer meeting tonight at 7:30 in the Log Chapel. For more information contact Fr. Ed O'Connor (7651) or Dave Ridenour (7735). 
The Observer is published Mon­day through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. Tl)e Observer is published by the studenn of Notre Dame and Selnt Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for no per year (S I o per semester) from The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Indiana, 46556. . The Observer Ia a member of the Auoclated Prell. All repro. ductlon rights. are reaerved. 
NDSMC THEATRE needs 


USHERS 
For all shows-see shows free. sign up now for entire season. call 284-4141 
Bar-B-Que 


l. & 
Beer 
~~~ 
Restaurant .and. L.Dunge  \S  
Featuring · the  finest  

in hickory ~moked .. 
barbeque -cooked over an open pit with special 
sauce 



4-3 a.m.: 
daily!. 'closed Sun.: ; and Mon. 
1 
._ ---~ 1 


~.·.,.,·,.-')f.~-',(", IIU'f·.•• 1: ', ;\o,.~'l~ 


:n u.s c. 31M provld" In penl,..nt P.-t: "N~ ~n who-ldh..,•~ antltt.d tomau ....nwund..-fOfnwr .actlon431iSotthlttltl4' lhall midi-" maon•• at rtHI ,.... CH"twlckd ui">CM'rlhlt ..-bMc:tiOft unlan 1M fn.t annuallY wltft ttl• P"Dft.. -.,../c. • writ~ rtoq,_ for~ ro ....llnwnaraw..,chratft." 
In acc:an~ance ,..lth tho prvviRan• of chit "etut•. I n.raby raqua11 .-..mi!Mion to mall tha Publh:a~lon namad In '"'" 1 at rtHI phMad Htll~ rnn pre.-tly authorlud by 31 U. S. C. M21. 

notre dame student union & sunshine promotions 
presents 


introducing 
The Norton Buffalo Stampede 
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 21 8:00PM Notre Dame ACC 
Tickets: $8.00, $7.00 All Seats Reserved on sale now at the ACC box office & the student. union box office 




United Way campaigns next week 
by Maureen Eyres coMmunity and help others." number of students who have "In the past," Russell noted, contributed a dollar or more make 
The United Way Fund Drive will begin its annual campus campaign next Monday, and will continue until Oct. 17, with a goal of total participation by the Notre Dame community. · 
"If we are going to raise $3,000, I'd rather see 3,000 people donate $1.00 each than 1,500 donate $2.00 each," said J.P. Russell, Hall Presidents Council Chairman and student director of the drive. 
Brother Joe McTaggert, as­sociate director of Campus Minis­try and advisor to Community Services said, "Students have got to learn that in the everyday world it is an accepted fact that people are expected to participate in their ''the campaign was a real rush job. Each hall would find gimmicks to raise money, such as football lotteries, bake sales, or ugly man contests. Sometimes, these gim­micks ran for weeks." 
Russell added that since the United Way is the only University endorsed fund drive, it has certain advantages. "It is the one cam­paign that facultv, staff, adminis­trators, and students are being asked to give to the same purpose within the same period of time," he said. Unlike last year, the campaign is being run only oe week in every dormitory. This way campus posters, Observer cover­age, and daily update \of the 
Logan named as charity 
by Sue Ballmann Logan Center has been named the school charity for the year at St. Mary's. A total of 664 students voted during dinner in the cafeteria last week, with 336, or 49 percent, voting to support Logan Center, according to Kathy O'Connell, vice president for Student Affairs. A Brazilian mission took second place 
Urban Plunge applications due 
Students interested in applying for the Urban Plunge program must do so before noon tomorrow. Applications are available in the Student Activities office, first floor LaFortune, the theology depart­ment, room 303 O'Shaughnessy, or the Office of Religious Studies at St. Mary's. 


with 96 votes, and the Glen!Diary ' Volunteer Program received · 72 · votes. , 
The students will be surveyed in order to determine where the money will be spent when O'C9n­nell receives a list of priorities from Logan Center. 
"Every month there will be some type offund-raising activity with all the proceeds going to Logan Cen­ter," said O'Connell. "The fund­raising activity for October has not yet been determined, although it will probably be held before October break," she added. 
During registration week, mem­bers of the student government worked in the bookstore, and the bookstore gave the student govern­ment about $250 for their services. This money will be contributed to Logan Center for the month of September. 
O'Connell also said that the Board of Governance wishes to thank the students for voting. 
5 to 7:30 Mon.-Tues.-Wed. Pizza-Chicken-Spaghetti-Salad 
All You Care To Eat 
Can Just ANYONE Purchase From Diamond Import Company? 
Technically, yes. But ther1. we're not sure JUS! ANYONE would want to do so. We're not a "Jewelry store," so we don't offer watches, silverware. or synthetic stones. Our spec1al1zat1on lies in diamonds and fine gems, 18k gold and platmum jewelry. We also offer appraisal services and estate 
jewelry, which is slightly removed from the norm. 
So, you see, we don't attempt to please j~st ANYONE. We serve those who appreciate quality, and the professionalism of a Graduate Gemologist. To those persons, whether they wish to invest $250.00 or $25,000.00 we extend our 
personal invitation. Lobby St. Joseph Bank Building 
South Bend, Indiana Telephone: 287-1427 John M. Marshall's 




COiainottd 9~po~t Co~pany 
Your Source for the Unusual 
a sense of campus-wide participa­tion and awareness of not only possibilities but realities." 
Another difference in this year's campaign is that students will be asked personally to contribute. The community service director and president of each hall will conduct a door-to-door campaign. Some halls may choose the section leaders to knock on doors during the campaign while others may choose active members of the hall. 
McTaggert commented, "We could have all kinds of gimmicks to raise money, but our intention is more serious. Personal solicitation allows students to be more relaxed with and selective of solicitors in the community. Each individual is being asked to give from the heart." 
The annual United Way cam­paign in St. Joseph County raises funds for 34 local service agencies, eliminating the need for 34 sep­arate fund drives. Its member agencies represent about 90 per­cent of the legtimate voluntary health and welfare programs in the area. 
"The reason the University par­[continued on page 6] 

Sometimes a pass won't even help! This faculty member found the solution to his problems...remove the gate! [photo by Greg Trzt!pek] 



Lack of money plagues library 
by Patrick Cole Special Projects Editor 
Editor's Note: This is the first of a four-part series examining the availabillty of books in the Mem­orial Library to students in the Notre Dame-St. Mary's com­munity. Today's story will general­ly examine the problem. Tomor­row, the check-out system and lost books will be discussed. The third part will deal with bow books are ordered, and the final story will illustrate the plans and ideas concerning the improvement of the library. 
It's nearing the end of the semester and John, a junior gov­ernment major, has a term paper to write. Elaine, an English major, has a critical review to present for drama class next week. To do the 
assignment, they both go  to  the  
Memorial  Library  to  gather  re­ 
sources.  

John decides he wants to do a paper on the Communist Party in the Soviet Union, taking an histori­cal approach. He looks for the books in the card catalogue. Most of the books are in Russian, so he decides that they are of no use to him. After locating some of the other available books in the tower, he finds only two on the shelf, and they do not go in depth to give him the information he needs. After going to the check-out desk and learning that the book has not been checked out, he becomes frustrated and picks another subject. 
Meanwhile, Elaine learns that the information she needs is a reference title, The New York Times Theater Reviews. But the reference librarian tells her that the library does not have it, although many other college libraries do. 
Notre Dame's Memorial Library has ben acclaimed as one of the most accommodating college li­braries in America. It is the largest college library in the world at 14 stories and has seating facilities for 2,900 persons--almost half the un­dergraduate student body. 
"Students and faculty complain that they cannot find the materials they need for research or for class needs,'' said Prof. Edward Vasta, chairman of the English depart­ment. And those complaints continue to increase. "I can never find what I want," one student complained. 
"We don't have the budget to buy the appropriate volumes in history that should be in a quality library,'' commented Thomas Schlereth, assistant professor of American studies. "We don't have a good collection of American. 

newspapers--not even in the 20th century. Students can't find books. in the library that they should have. 
Even some of the classics are missing.'' 
"There are big gaps," Schlereth continued, "gaps that suggest that we don't have the quality of studies that we should. I have sent students to Chicago to do research on items that should have been available here." From June 1975 to May 1976, 166,058 books, per­iodicals and the like were circulated among students and faculty through the collection management department. However, there is a strong evidence to indicate that many of these books may not have been originally wanted by the user. 
Since last April, The Observer has examined. the availability of books to students and faculty in the Notre Dame-St. Mary's commun­ity. Among the conclusions drawn from the study include: 
-A lack of revenue in the general apropriation for the book fund has hurt the collection in specific areas. 
Money affects the reference department, the college library collection and the collection in certain academic fields. New improvements for the library have been delayed also. 
-The check-out system for books might need to be improved. "Our system of circulation is back in the Middle Ages," says Joseph H. Hubner, head of the library's collection management depart­ment. "The problem is with money." If a student is keeping a book for several months, unless someone requests it, the library cannot tell how long the book has been out. 
-Inventories have been rarely taken in the past. A regular system of inventory began on Apr. 7, 1975, starting with the P classification of the Library of Congress system. About 3,000 of the 102,615 books in this category have been declared mising. Although the loss rate of the library has been cited at five percent, there are 11 more floors of the library yet to be inventoried. 
Lack of revenue 
According to David E. Sparks, former director of University librar­ies, the library received about S2 million for expenditures this year. Library endowments yield about $95,000 each year, and approxi­mately $5,000 comes from dona­tions and gifts. About two-thirds of the appropriation is used for sala­ries and wages, leaving approxi­mately $600,000 for the purchase of books. 
A department's allocation is often depleted early in the year, and it cannot order any more books for that year. "Some departments run out of money and we have to return the orders," said Maureen 
L. Gleason, head of the collection [continued on page 6] 
need resumes in a hurry? 

(~~

insty·prints 
the wiz of the printing biz! 
rag bond 2 5 -8 1/2 X 1 1 $2.55 203 N. Mam SoBend 289-697 


·HPC Meeting Tuesday,Oct. 4 6:30pm 
untliadVJau~ 


Cavanaugh 
communitv service
REMINDER: 
commissioners are asked to attend with hall presidents 
~------------~ 
·RE: united way·fund drive -packetsand information. · 
op1n1on




~P.O.BOXQ~ 
biting. Notre Dame students do not pay for their football tickets. In 
Somethi~g Different
Fans lack Saturday 
a way the student body is the invited guest of the athletes and
christianity afternoon 
administration. Considering the amount of 



This Christmas 
emphasis placed on athletics at
fans

Dear Editor: Notre Dame, it is a shame that we Concerning both Jim Bourrit's do not benefit more from the 
and Gre!vSolman's sports columns yester<,tay(Oct. 3), I wo~ld like to lend my own interpretation to the booingthat occurred in Satu~day's football game. I myself dtd not boo. but I was aware that it was happening. First of all, I too think it is deplorable when a student body boos a dedicated _and . hard­working player. Rusty Ltsch ts one of these players and I'm truly sorry that he, or anyone, would interpret those boos as directed at him. Secondly, anyone sitting in the student section would be aware that those boos were directed at the sidelines and to an office under the Golden Dome. Namely, at our head coach and the man who hired him. Unfortunately, many Notre Dame fans have watched one of our tinest teams play very boring and poor football under these ~o men's direction. I am not saymg this is justification for booing at a game; I simply say this is the cause of the booing. The student body, and a majority of Notre Dame fans across the country, have been lead to believe through force of habit, that a substitution or poor play call could cost us a loss. This is not conjecture or bias, it is fact. 
We are a christian university and therefore should act accordingly. It is exceedingly un-christian to boo any member of a team or staff. But it is far more un-christian to stand back and watch as fans, news­papers, magazines, and television across the country proceed to tear apart our head coach. Dan Devine has already been through one very bad experience at Green Bay. I would hate to see that experience repeated. Yet, knowing human nature, the Notre Dame fan and the sports world, it is almost inevitable that Devine will repeat that exper­ience. Therefore, I would like to propose that Dan Devine be given the rest he deserved after leaving Green Bay. In this way, Devine can keep his sanity, Fr. Joyce can keep his job, Notre Dame fans can keep their Christianity and I can be attacked for writing this letter. 
Peggy Schumaker 
Dear Editor: 
This is an open letter to The Greatest Student Body In The World: 
Saturday's game against Mich­igan State gave m~ cause. to wo~der about the illustnous tttle gtven Notre Dame by the media after the San Francisco basketball game last year. Getting into Notre Dam~ is no easy trick I know. I trted unsuccessfully. I'm a SMC chick, and in all sincerity very proud to be one. I have always felt a oneness with Notre Dame. Lately, I'm beginning to wonder about that supposedly united and indominat­able Notre Dame spirit. The fact that it was the student body which booed Rusty Lisch in Saturday's game is greatly disturbing. I couldn't help but be embarrassed and upset by the jeering cruelty of the students. What do the alumni and Notre Dame following think of experiences. In preseason polls NotreDamewas a heavy favorite. Now that the odds are against us and the polls have shifted their favoritism elsewhere, it appeat:s that the student body is jumping on the same band wagon. 

At Saturday's game my room­mates and I carried a sign we had made. Simply stated: 
N.D. 
You're still the 1 

Love, S.M.C. We believe it. Being #1 is an honor, responsibility, and an un­ending quest for the finest. Are we willing and worthy to regain our status? If so, it must come from within. A nationally-known educa­tor gave the following definition: "Love is doing everything possible to help another human being become the finest person that God could have intended." Do we love? 
Beth Menke 
such behavior? Can anyone be • ..-._...,.,....,..,..,_.._,..w,.._...,
proud or benefit from such poor 
coriduct? In Corby's and other businesses around town the "Dump Devine" bumper stickers are showing up. Contrary to what anyone else may think, Dan Devine is a person. At the very least he deserves our respect. Personally I feel he is owed a million apologies and a new start. 
Maybe I'm too much of an idealist, afterall fans are supposed to be fickle. Maybe that's the problem; do we only consider ourselves Saturday after1,1oon fans? 
Winners are seldom paft time. And genuine winners are usually above petty and childish back­


*Observer 






Editorials 


tom soma 

law ladder? Should I decide law is 
not for me, will I settle comfortably 
in a suburban palace and ignore the 
problems of the city, or will I 
somehow respond to those prob­
lems in my own constructive way? 
Only time will tell. 

What about you? Here you are 
at Notre Dame, a stronghold of 
Christianity and a fortress of 
idealism and unselfish concern. 

You are preparing yourself for a 
career in society. But how much do 
you know about the society you will 
be entering? More importantly, 
how much do you want to know? 
Are you willing to let yourself be 
challenged by realities which could 
force you to extend your own 
horizons further than you ever 
imagined they could be extended? 
Or will you be content to ignore? 

During our campaign for Student 
Government leadership, Dave 
Bender and I learned a very 
important lesson. People here are 
challenging themselves with the 
concerns of society. Injustice is not 
simply a concept discussed in a 
government or theology class; it is 
a reality which must be countered 
by a commitment against it and a 
lifestyle which refuses to accept it. 
Both Dave and I believe that we 
must look beyond campus in our 
concerns as students. 

Granted, you and I cannot go out and save the world. We can, however, choose to ignore it. Or we can allow it to confront us in its frustrations as well as its beauty, and then see if maybe we have something to offer it. I think we are here at Notre Dame because we are searching for what it is we have to offer. So, take a look. Go on an Urban Plunge. If you're willing to be challenged by realities you won't find in a classroom, go on an Urban Plunge. If you want to see faith being put into practice, go on an Urban Plunge. Ifyou are unsure of what you want to do once you leave here and are frustrated by how little you know about that world out there, go on an Urban Plunge. Try something different this Christmas-the Urban Plunge. It really could change your life. I know it did mine. 
by Garry Trudeau 
St£, P/HifT THe TREA7Y­
MAKER5 HAD 7D TAKE 
INTV CIJNSIDERATION lA/AS 7HAT 7l-lellE WA5 NATIONAL PRIOE Iff S7/VI:E ON 80TH 


THOSE IN GLASS HOUSES • • • 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii tom 9ryPi 
This is in response to Mr. · Childer's letter concerning the Student Union policy of work and reward that appeared yesterday in The Observer: 
First of all, Dave, I want to thank you for the good job you and all the Band members do at our football games. The Band carries on a noble tradition that goes back to 1843 and is a cornerstone of Notre Dame football history. Your effort is appreciated and never taken for granted. 
What I would like to bring to your attention, however, is the fact that no major campus organization, not even the Notre Dame Band, goes •through a year without having their loyalty "bought." In case your memory is a bit fogged, let me remind you what members of the Band received as "payment" for · donating their time. 
Since Notre Dame has been ~ccepting bowl bids, band ·members have been flown from South Bend to the game, given lodging at a major hotel, given a daily food allowance as well as a pass to see the game. All free. I 
know how hard you work Dave, but I find it hard to sympathize with you "sweating" in Florida during the middle of winter. 
Just this year, the Band was sent free of charge to the Pittsburgh game, given free lodging and a meal allowance. After all this, do you really have the audacity to imply that the Student Union is bribing its own workers with a chance to purchase (with their own, not University, money) two football tickets? 
I'm not saying that the practice of the band is wrong. They should be sent to bowl games and one away game (maybe they should go to more than one). Band members work hard and deserve an oppor­tunity to travel with th~ team.. In the same light, there 1s nothing wrong with members of The Obser· ver Dome, and Scholastic staffs rec~iving salaries. They sacrifice their time and G.P.A.'s to serve the Student Body and should be re­imbursed for their efforts. What I am getting very upset with, Mr. Childers, are people like you running around giving the impres­
sion that the Student Union is a hands always in the till. 

I am in charge of a budget that will exceed $50,000 this year and am responsible to see that this money gets to the Student Bodr in the form of programs and servtces that they will like and attend. It is a job that takes 25-plus hours per week up at LaFortune alone, not counting phone calls and meetings that take place at night. I receive no salary or free trips and neither does my associate director, comptroller or any of my commissioners. What we do get is a pass to see our own movies and activities as well as tickets to see concerts that we help promote. These tickets, by the way, come out of the profits from the concert itself and not from any that students pay. 
If you like, Dave, add up how much all your trips cost and compare that to the benefits given to the Union or Observer or Dome or Scholastic, but do me a favor and don't publish the figures. I'.ve got a feeling that a lot of people would take up a musical instrument if they found out. 
Editor's Note1 Tom Gryp Is the 
corrupt organization with their·.· Student Union Director·· '·· · · ~o ,_.,. Two years ago, during my 

Christmas break, I spent one 
morning in the District Court of 
Detroit. I was not on trial in the 
literal sense, for I was just an 
observer that day. But in a way I 
was on trial, and it was my naivete 
being challenged. I saw a lot of 
things that morning that really 
jolted my concept of our legal 
system. Probably the most poig­
nant experience was witnessing a 
seventeen-year-old boy sentenced 
to State Prison for two years. His 
crime against society: the 
possession of less than $500 in 
stolen goods. 
As I sat in that courtroom, I could 
not help but wonder if society 
would ever recognize the crime it 
had wrought against this boy. He 
had stolen because he needed to 
survive. His clothes, his speech, 
nis mannerisms, all spoke vividly of 
his ghetto background. But in our 
society, we deal with the crime, not 
the criminal. The boy steals, he 
goes to prison. The process is quite 
simple, convenient, and emotion­
less. For the next two years, the 
only thing he'd be able to steal 
would be glances out of his cage. 
And who knows what would hap­
pen when he got out. Who cares? 
That experience and those reflec­
tions were part of my Urban Plunge 
two years ago. To say I was 
challenged by that experience is an, 
understatement. I was struck quite 
hard by the reality of "life in the 
big city," and that was depressing. 
But at the same time, I was moved 
very deeply by the dedication and 
commitment of the people I met 
who were devoting their lives to 
making that reality a ·bit less harsh 
-and that was encouraging. 
As I think more and more about my own future, the challenge of my Urban Plunge experience becomes increasingly more real. How will I respond to what I saw in Detroit? Sometimes I think I want to be a lawyer. If that should be my vocation, will I respond to the need 
for dedicated and competent court­appointed attorneys by working in the field of poverty law? Or will I grab for all the gusto I can get by working my way up the . corporate 

DOONESBURY 
HA/?RJ5, I 00/tr SUP-OF WRSt, POSE >WW;H£/WJ I HAVE, A80flr 1JE COifUCOIIi 8.0.! 8UT ~ INTERI'RETATf()VS OF 7HMS IN­• 1HIS 7REATY ? 7CNTIONAU 

-~...-------~­
Tuesday, October 4, 1977 
the observer 



Carnival Weekend 

-
[photos by john Calcutt] 

TOUCH ONE ANOTHER OR DIE 
George Costello 
The first hints of the upcoming deluge usually appear on Wednesday: those first few subtle signs that the upcoming weekend will be a little out of the ordinary. Maybe its just one or two obvious non-students carrying cameras or book­store bags, but you know what they're here for. On Thursday the feeling is even more distinct. The first big, expensive campers and trailers appear, as if out of nowhere, in the parking lots out by the stadium. The groups,. of middle-aged men in wool caps walk up and down the quads, and little kids wearing tiny Notre Dame sweatshirts and throwing blue Notre Dame pigmy footballs are everywhere. A freshman asks, "Who are these people?", but that is not the important question-the important question is: "Why are they here?" To find the answer, one need only feel the tell-tale nip in the air, and sense the excitement and anticipation that is quickly spreading around the campus, around the neighbor­hood, around the city. At this point you may be wondering, "What is he talking about?", but the answer should be obvious-its time for another Notre Dame football weekend! 
By the time most students are finished classes on Friday afternoon, the temporary migration into South Bend is in full swing, and the campus literally swarms with football fans-or football weekend fans-of all types. The aforementioned wool-capped smaller groups, through imaginative ad­vertising ("Try American Institute of Aeronautica and Astronauts' Polish Sau­sage-Darth Vader eats 'em!) or exotic cuisine (St. Edward's Hall wine-basted hot dogs) are able to hold their own in the fierce but friendly competition. 
Food is not the only saleable commodity on football weekends. Several organiza­tions, such as Navy ROTC and the soccer team (with its newly acquired Varsity status) sell football programs, and reports indicate that they do a brisk business. All manner of Notre Dame buttons and pennants are sold in the pregame hours, and anyone foolish enough to be caught without a blue and gold Notre Dame visor can purchase one after a minimum search. And of course, if by chance there is· some Notre Dame souvenir that you can't find out on the quad, you can always find it over at the Bookstore, where the line stretches from the special football Saturday entrance all the way back to the sidewalk. 
The South Quad is not the only seat of pregame activity, however. On the Main Quad, the residents of Sorin Hall keep things buzzing with live entertainment on their front porch-this past Saturday the show featured a jazz band called "Bright Side". More organizational food stands operate on the Main Quad, and the whole scene is given the traditional touch by the rarely-heard carillon of bells in Sacred Heart Church, playing "When Irish Eyes Are Smiling", the Alma Mater, and the ubiquitous Fight Song. 
At 12:15, one of the most rousing pregame events takes place when the Notre Dame Marching Band performs the music to their half-time show on the steps of the Administration Building. This crowd-pleaser provides the climax to the 


Fr. Bill Toohey 

"It is good to know that glasses Are to drink from; The bad thing is not to know What thirst is for." 
-Antonio Machado 
We kid a lot about TLC (tender loving care), but people can't live normal lives without it. How many death certificates issued from old-age homes and one-room apartments could read: Cause of death ­lack of affection and esteem! 
Psychologist James J. Lynch agrees. In his new book, The Broken Heart: The Medical Consequences of loneliness, he affirms that loneliness kills. "Loneliness is not only pushing our culture to the breaking point," he says, "it is pushing our physical health to the breaking poin~.'' Lynch speaks of the devastating result of sending patients away with pills when what they need is human contact. 
Lynch, who is a specialist in psycho­somatic medicine, argues that we need a "medicine beyond science" that will help arrest the spread of loneliness-induced disease. He's not calling for short-order intimacies, but a realization of the impor­tance of forming human relationships. One is reminded of the fact that, during the war, the greatest need in Vietnamese orphanages was for people who would be willing to simply hold the babies. And we remember Kunta Kinte's testimony in Roots that the greatest pain he experienced was in never being touched. 
In one of his most moving tales, Dostoevski recounts a scene from his own childhood. When he was young, he used to love to walk in the birch wood of the family's country estate, looking for mush­rooms. One day, he is terrified by the warning cry, "Wolf!" He panics and dashes for a clearing in the woods; and, in so doing, runs right into the arms of an old serf, a man who worked for his father. The peasant quiets him and holds him for a few moments with an extreme gentleness. He soothes his fears and, reassuring the lad he will be watching him, sends him along home. 
Dostoevski comments on this incident, "It was a solitary meeting in the deserted fields, and only God perhaps may have seen from above what deep humane feeling, and what delicate tenderness, was in the heart of a coarse, brutally ignorant Russian serf.'' 
Events like that can have a powerful effect on one's life. Writing about it years later, while in prison, Dostoevski remem­bers the gentle caress of an old peasant, 
· and realizes it was an experience of a caring God. . •> .·'•. . ... 
Isn't this the way the gospel continually reaches us? Our great thirst is basically a longing for God; but doesn't He happen in our lives, most frequently, the same way he did in that experience of Dostoevski -­through an event of gentle caring? 
And who are those persons for us, who through the years have spoken in the name of Jesus Christ? The words they spoke, I'll bet, were most often wordless words -­expressions that took the form of com­forting, caring, life-giving actions. Some­times, moreover, the influence may come from afar. 
This plain fact was borne home to me not so long ago when I thought of Dorothy Day; and realized how much I care for her, how much I feel attracted to her, what an influence she has been on my life. Every so often I get a strong urge to leave everything I'm doing and go to her, requesting that she share her wisdom with me and lead me in the simple life. I don't suppose I ever will (I guess Dorothy Day is my "foreign legion"), but the more I think of it, the more it is apparent that the God who unconditionally cherishes me has been present to me through that marvelous woman. 
There are, of course, many others who have been like that for us. Like the people who make us feel more alive because of what they bring to life in us. These are precious memories; and we provide similar memories for others, too. It is curious (and wonderful) to realize that we have no notion what it is we say and do that others will remember for the rest of their lives. Nor need we know. The important thing is: We are all meant to be for one another experiences of the living God. 
If we look at each other, and can joyfully say we are more alive today than last year at this time --what does this reveal to us but that God has been alive for us and has been reaching out to us and touching us .. .in mystt.:rious ways, through myster­ious hands. The Weston monks have a testimonial that says it well: 
I want to say something to all of you Who have become a part Of the fabric of my life. The color and texture Which you have brought into My being Have become a song, And I want to sing it forever. There is an energy in us Which makes things happen When the paths of other persons Touch ours And we have to be there And let it happen. When the time Of our particular sunset comes Our thing, our accomplishment Won't really matter a great deal. But the clarity and care With which we have loved others Will speak with vitality Of the great gift of life We have been for e~h other.. ..· -.~ 


men and sweatshirted kids are still here, but so are the well-dressed couples who graduated from N.D. in the class of 1973, and the equally well-dressed couples who might have come from the class of '33. On Notre Dame Ave. and in the parking lots are cars with license plates from such disparate places as Texas and Pennsyl­vania, Minnesota and Michigan. In short, all sorts of people from all sorts of places have come to experience one of the last remaining truly collegiate traditions: the college football weekend at a big-time college football school. 
The first organized manifestation of this experience occurs at 7:00PM Friday night in Stepan Center. It's pep rally time, when students, alumni, and fans alike have a chance to crowd under an incredibly hot geodesic dome, watch pyramid-building fanatics fall on other people from great heights, and cheer their lungs out for the Irish team assembled on the stage. Mercifully, its all over in a half hour, and the multitudes then scatter out into the night: students back to Morrisseys, Far­leys, and St. Louis Streets, and visitors back to Winnebagos, lJays Inns, and Blue and Gold Motels. 
Saturday may dawn with gray skies and low temperatures, but by 10:00 AM the campus and surrounding area sag beneath the weight of thousands of football fans reveling in the pregame euphoria. For the uninitiated freshmen, Thursday and Fri­day's bewilderment becomes Saturday's delight as small cares such as grades and careers pale in significance before more important priorities such as enjoyment in the various and sundry pregame activities. On and around the South Quad, center of these activities, are numerous food stands run by Notre Dame organizations. The best-known and most firmly established of these culinary oases is the Knights of Columbus .Steak. Sandwich Sale. but on-campus pregame activities, and soon 
the major part of the throng on the Main 
and South Quads begins to amble over 
toward the stadium or nearby parking lots, 
where the traditional bastions of Notre 
Dame weekends are already taking place­
the tailgate party and the keg party. 
Tailgate partying is an art that seems to 
be practiced most effectively by seasoned 
N.D. football fans, and should be studied by all those students who plan to visit the campus for a football weekend after they graduate. A typically well-organized tail­gater may include two or more grills manned by gourmet hotdog and hambur­ger makers; several different kinds of beer and several more different kinds of liquor; a neatly prepared table filled with various salads and condiments; and, last but certainly not least, a carload full of enthusiastic actual or subway N.D. Alum­ni. 
For those people,(usually students), who 
haven't the time, the inclination, or the 
tailgate to arrange such a lavish spectacle, 
a simple keg party will do. At a keg party 
the ambience is much simpler than that of 
a tailgater, but the participants are no less 
enthusiastic. All that is required for a 
ravingly successful keg party is a keg 
(preferrably filled with beer, of .course), 
one makeshift grill, a couple of hot dogs 
with or without buns, and about fifty 
thirsty students. If you don't know fifty 
thirsty students, that's all right-just set up 
your keg, and soon you'll know fifty thirsty 
students. It's that simple. 
Of course, you don't need a tailgate or 
keg party to enjoy the· festivities before a 
Notre Dame football game on the campus. 
You don't even need fifty other students. 
· Perhaps all you need is a dollar or two to buy a ltotdog and help out one of the organizations on campus. The merry, carnival atmosphere has already been providedforyou. ,, , _,._,_,_.,__.~,-_ 1
'""·--· . .. ..·... . ..~ ......... -~·. 

Tuesday, October 4, 1977
the observer 



Library needs more materials 
[continued from page 3] ordering department. 
And the rising cost of books and journals has not helped the prob­lem either. According to The 1976 Bowker Annual of Ubrary and Book Trad Information, the average price of journals in the social sciences, law, business, and other academic fields was $72.42 in 1967. 
By 1976, the price had risen to $129.47. the average cost of U.S. periodicals has doubled since 1969 from $8.66 to $22.52 in 1976. 
Reference section hit bard 

An example of how the financial problem has affected the library is the reference department, located on the first floor of the library. Reference department statistics in­dicate there are 16,033 volumes (individual books) in the depart­ment. But in the last four years, the acquisition of titles--that is, groups of volumes such as a set of encyclopedias--has decreased. IN the 1973-74 school year, 3,665 new titles were acquired. In 1974-75, the library added 4,015 new titles, an increase of 350. In 1975-76, 4,366 titles were acquired, an increase of 251 which was less than 
was  added  during  the  previous  
vear.  
-And the reason, again:  Money.  

"Money is the reason," said Ann Lonie head of the reference and bibliography department. "The cost of books has gone up. The average cost of volumes of a reference book is $30. The University has not increased our budget. And we will buy fewer and fewer books because the cost goes up." 
As a result, the reference section lacks titles that many university libraries have. The top six refer­ence guides the department would 
Prediction favors Yankees 
[continued from page 8] 
can't catch the ball. The Royals must take advantage, a Ia Cincinnati in 
the 1976 World Series, of this obvious Yankee flaw. 
Both teams have good defensive catchers, so base stealing may be 
curtailed. 
TEAM SPEED--Again, the Royals have the edge and they must utilize 
it. Catcher Darrell Porter and Mayberry are the only Royals who can't 
fly. More importantly, the middle of the Royals' order all possesses 
good speed compared to Nettles, Jackson, Munson and Chambliss. 
Rivers and Randolph own the real Yankee speed and you can be sure 
that Billy Martin will abandon the conservative play that the Yankees 
were burdened with this year. 
If the Yankees play daring baseball, they will be tough to beat. Their 
pitching is capable of holding the Royals intact. And the best way to 
counteract a weak defense is with a good offense. 
The Royals were awesome against righties this year and only 
average against lefties. Therefore, it becomes imperative for Gullett 
and Guidry to win the first two games for the Yankees. If the series 
goes to Kansas City ties, the Royals will win. 
One final point is the matter of pressure. The Yankees overcame 
:nore obstacles than any other squad has ever encountered to win 
a tough divisional race. They played under close scrutiny all year, the 
Royals coupled their hot streak with their competitors' slumps, so there 
was no pressure. It is said the Royals were there last year, but they 
don't know the pressure the Yankees have conquered. 
More times than not in baseball, the best talent wins. Granted the 
Royals had a great month of September, but they only won two more 
games than the Yankees did while playing againt lesser competition. 
Since I agree with the theory on talent, I'll repeat last year's correct ,prediction of Yankees in five. 
Discovery of the •Treasures of King Tut 
by Professor Leader 
An illustrated lecture sponsored by 
the Howard Hall 
Academic -Cultural Commission 
7:00 Tonight (Oct. 4) 


In Howard Hall 
like to have in order of importance are: 
-The Social Science Citation In­dex. A reference guide similar to the Golde to Periodical Uterature. Cost to maintain: $1,250 per year. 
-Congressional Information Ser­vice U.S. Serial Set Index, 1789­1969. The cost to obtain this index of journals is $4,800. 
-Cumulative Subject Index to the 

P.A.I.S. Annual BuUetlns, 1915­1974. the price of adding this to the reference collection is $1,075. 
-Newspaper indexes. These sources index the major metropol­itan newspapers such as the Chi­cago Tribune and the Wasb!ngton Post. The cost: $4,500 plus $680 per year to maintain it. 
-Newspapers on microfilm to accompany the newspaper indexes. 
Cost:  $9,170  plus  $1,050  to  
maintain it.  - 
-Permuterm  Subject  Index  to  

Science Citation Index. This sup­plement costs $11,550 plus $1,050 to keep it up to date. 
Other titles needed include the Golde to World Science [$600], the Personal Name Index to the New York Times, 1851-1975 [$650], College catalogues on fiche ($1 ,200 per year) and the Biography and Portrait Index ($750). 
The cost of obtaining these and other vital references titles totals $45,952.50 plus $5,535 per year to maintain them. 
Will the library suffer as a result of these deficiences? "Not much but if this trend continues it can," Lonie said. ''The only thing I can do is make the administration aware, which I have done." 
The College Library on the second floor, with about 100,000 volumes and titles, does not neces­sarily have a spotty collection. 
"The collection might not be as bad as some people think," said Bro. William F. Drury, head of the College Library. The philosophy section of the collection, he said, has 93.3 percent of the books recommended by Books for CoUege IJbrarles, a guide published by the American Library Association (ALA). 
"In political science," Drury continued, "we have 91.7 percent of what we should have, in aux­iliary science we have 85 percent and in music we have 68.5 per­cent." 
But former Director of University Libraries Sparks said last year that many of the books in the College Library are out of place, indicating that "about SO percent" of the books were not in the right place. He said that some of t)le books that should be in the College Library are int he research tower. 
Overall, library l'taff members and faculty membe~s express un­certainty aboui th¢ prospect of finding solution$ to t~ese problems and others in the !Memorial Li­brary. A majority see the problem being caused bv\ one thing: a lack of money. "Th~ problem as I see it," said one library employee, "is that we're just not getting enough money from the 'Golden Dome'. 
A library staff member was pessiiflistic, saying, "We need to work with the faculty to establish priorities. But if you try to change things around here, you literally get your head cut off! " 
"I don't know if we have reached the point_of no return," said Vasta, chairman of the English depart­ment about buying books. "If we haven't, it will be very close. We might be saved by the Campaign for Notre Dame, but I really don't know.'' 
Tomorrow: A look at the check-out system and lost books. 
ND asked to donate 
[continued from page 3] 
ticipates, "McTaggert explained, is 
because the united Way is a 
function of the St. Joseph County 
community and Notre Dame is part 
of that community. As a Christian 
place we share with the United 
Way the value of trying to meet the 
needs of others." 
The United Way asks the Univer­sity to pledge an annual donation. Last year. the contribution was $2,500. 
"Give for the sake of giving,"­Russell urged. "Give what you think is good. Remember, our goal is 100 percent participation." 

October 3 & 4 
engineering aud. 7, 9:15, 11:30pm $1.00 
"UiR 






Reference titles needed to facilitate research 
Annual catalogues of British government publica-$ 392.00 tlons, 1894-1970 
Arab World 408.00 Bibliography and Indexes of United States Con-395.00 gresslonal Committee Prints 
Bibliography of English language fiction In the 1,760.00 Ubrary of Congress through 1950 Biography and portrait Index 
750.00 

CAS source Index, 1907-1974 
200.00 CIS US Serial Set Index, 1789-1969 4,800.00 CoUege catalogs on Debe 1,200.00 a year 
Cumulative subject Index to the P.A.I.S. annual 1,075.00 buUetlns, 1915-1974 Current national statistical compendiums 1,200.00 a year Golde to world science 600.00 League of Nations documents 1919-1946 500.00 
New serial titles 1950-1970  138.50  
Newspaper Indexes  4,500.00 plus  
$680.00 a year.  
Newspapers on mlcrofUm newspaper Indexes  to  accompany  the  9,170.00 plus $1,834.00 a year.  
P.A.I.S. Foreign Language Index  125.00 a year  

Permuterm Subject Index to Science Citation Index 11,550.00 plus $1,050.00 a year 
Pet·sonal name Index to the New York Times Index, 650.00 1851-1975 
Retrospective Index to theses of Great Britain and 400.00 Ireland 
Social Science Citation Index 1,250.00 a year 
Total $45,954.00 plus $5,535 to maintain each year. 
ARE YOU SURE YOU KNOW 
WHAT FAMILY PLANNING 
IS ALL ABOUT?
-

If you think it means preventing unwanted pregnancy ... you're partly right. But it means more than that Like counseling young people about how a baby before they are ready can affect their health or mess up their lives ... helping couples who want to have children but can't ... counseling men on male responsibility and methods of birth control. 
It's important to know ALL about family planning_._ it means more than you may have thought 
For information or help, contact the family planning clinic in your community, your local health department or your own physician. 
U.S. DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH, EDUCATION. AND WELFARE 

Tuesday, October 4, 1977 
the observer 
7 





Programs promote more security for women 
[continued from page l] things that could be done," the neck of a person might scare off victim. My opinion is that it is Molnar said. He also pointed out an attacker. probably one of the most effective that merely seeing a whistle around 
Jones expressed skepticism a­bout the WhistleStop program, 


Fbsitions now available for IO's, QA's, JPs, and men answering to: Jay, Joe, Kevin, Chris, Teny, Tim, Tom, Dan, John, Starsky, Hutch, Pat, Bilski, Mike, Steve, Sean, Charlie, Daryl, Rob,.••) 
SEND RESUME AND 1 DOZEN ROSES 
Classified Ads 
NOTICES 

Notre Dame Judo Club. Anyone interest· ed call 8719 or 8711. 
EXPERIENCED TYPIST for more infor· mation. please call 272·2819. 
NEED QUALITY TYPING? Executary, Inc. Professional Typing Service IBM Correcting Selectrics $.85 per page minimum. Call 232·0898. "When you want the Best" 
U. of Mich. grad. in Russian will tutor Russian students. Studied in Leningrad. Call 683-4332 or 233·9948. Ask for Melanie Lewis. 
Typing. Reasonable rates. Call 8051. 
Accurate, fast typing. Mrs. Donoho 232-()746. Hours: 8am to 6 pm. 
TRACE YOUR ROOTS with "The Family Tree Kit". All necessary materials in· eluded. Great gift idea. Call Cathy Murray 4·5454. 
MORRISSEY LOAN FUND Student loans $2!1-150. 1 day wait. 1 percent interest. Due in 30 days. LaFor· tune Basement. M·F 11:15·12:15. 
TYPING call Carolyn 232·9061. 
Student or grad student with wrestling experience to coach high school wrest· ling · contact Mike Nolan at LaLumiere School · phone 362·2248 or 324·7069. 
Can't skate? Try broomball. 18 brooms provided. Ice Rink 8416. 
FOR RENT 

I'm at a loss for words. Can you believe it? 
LOST & FOUND 

Lost: An Economics notebook Sunday night at Stepan Center. Sept. 25, Must have. Call John 1776. 
Found: Men's leather jacket. Call 679· 4955 and identity. 
Lost: One set of keys at or near La· Fortune student center on Thurs. Call Bill 233·3743. 
Found: On sidewalk 1976 Holy Cross preparatory class ring. Call Denise 4·5402. 
I'm getting really tired of typing that ad. Please claim that ring!!! 
Lost: One SMC class ring, initials CFH, 1978. REWARD. 4·5143. 
Lost: Brown leather wallet in Engineering Aud. Need drivers license and ID for FB games. Please return, call 3506. 
Lost: Genetics textbook. Please call 289-()175. 
Lost: Irish wedding ring (Ciaddagh ring), jade with diamond with gold band. Call Mary Ann 4057. Reward. 
Lost: Green raincoat with ID Party on St. Louis Friday nlte. Call Kathy. Phone 1250. 
Found: One big red flag, Saturday on Green field near Dillon kegger. Call1692. 
Lost: 1 Econ and 1 Criminology notebook in North Dining Hall. If found call Jim 1185. 
Lost: Umbrella . brown &off-white. Call John 1848 (around midnite). 
WANTED 

Want$$$· Need So. Cal. vs. NO football tix Oct. 22. Sport's Tour at 3050 W. 7th Street, L.A. Calif. 90005. Call (213) 382·1951. Could also use 4 tix for any home game. 
Need tix for any home game. Will pay. Call1276. 
Two need ride to Cleveland. Oct. 7. Call Jim 1809. 
LESS IRRITATING MACHINES. 
Desperately need 1 USC ticket. Call Ron 3313. 
Need one Southern Cal. ticket. Will pay $$$. Call 7781. · 
Kim needs: 3 GA tickets to USC. Call 4·5241. 
1 or 2 girls tu sublet campus view apt. with soph transfer student. call Gai I, 277·1441. 
Need $$$? Sell me 2 Ga USC tix. Call Frank 277-4826. 
HELP! Make two girls happy: give em a ride to Toledo area October 7. Therese 6239. 
Needed: 1-4 tix for Army game. Call Maria 1318. 
Help!! Need ride to BOSTON (or vicinity) for Oct. break. Must know before Oct. 8. Call John 6657. Will share expenses. 
2 Ga Navy tix for parents. You won't be here. they will. Call Bob 234·0682. 
Desperately need 2·3 tickets for Georgia Tech. Ann 6915. 
=======~---------­
saying that she saw two possible outcomes to institution of such a program. "If it were really well­done and everyone realized the seriousness of it, the program could be quite effective," she stated. "However, I am concerned that some persons might take it lightly and abuse the program." 
A full-scale program similar to WhistleStop was instituted this semester in Madison, Wis., and on the University of Wisconsin cam­pus located there. Elsa Kurth, principal organizer of the program stated, "Last February we had a total of 15 sexual attacks reported in a two-week period and the whole community went into a; state of panic." 
Please helpII Despll'ltlly need rtde to St. Louis· Southern IHinols area Frt., Oct. 7. Will pay, drive. Call Julie 8521. 
My dad hasn't been here for 25 years. Please need 1 GA USC ticket. Call Mark 8918. 
Need ride 1·35 to Connecticut before or after USC game. Call Pete 3829. 
Ideas for nice personals fll' Mo Reynolds. Please contact Dbserler ufflce. 
So. Cal vs. N D football tickets. Oct. 22 • Sport's Tour 3050 W. 7th Street L.A., Calif. 90005 (213) 384·1951. Will pay $$. Also could use 4 tix for any home game. 
Desperately need 1 USC ticket. Call 4·4104. • 
USC Student or GA tix wanted. West coast clients will pay premium. 272·7360 after 6 p.m. 
Desperately need 3 Ga tickets for Tech. game. Bob 8405. 
Need tix for any home game. Call Sharon 1261. 
Need 4 Ga USC tickets. I'll top all other offers. Call Brian 272·5843. 
Wanted SC tickets, will pay premium. 
Need six Ga Clemson tix. Call Leo 287·7051. 
2 student USC tickets. Will pay $. Call Suzy or Diane 5148. 
Need six Southern Cal tix. Mark 287• 
7051. . 
5 USC tickets. Call Paul at 1424. 
4 GA tickets for Southern Cal. Will pay good bucks. Call1423, ask for Mike. 
Need ride to and from West Lafayette Fri., Oct. 7. Call Bob 8920. 
Six Ga tickets to USC. Call Jeanne at 4·4001. 
Need 4 USC G tix. Will pay $, call Ron 1423. 
Desperately need 6 Ga tix to any home game. Call Chris at 1158. 

Classified ad rates 
RATES. Classified ads are charged according to the chart below. NU~BEROF DAtYS:. 
• 1  2  3  4  ,5  
Ill  -~  
Q  .1·10  1,00  1:.30  1.55  1.75  2.~  
~  1.1-15  1.35.  1.851-2.25  2.50  2.95  
~  16·20  1,65.  2.'30 :2.55  2.95.  3.20  
u..  21-25  2:os  2.90  3.50  4.25  4.90  
0 ffi  l6-30 31~35  2.45 2.80  3.50 4.00  4.25 4.75  5 15 5.85  5.90 8.20  
a:l  36:40  3.15  4.55  HiS  7.10  8.65  
~ :J z  41-45 46-50  3.40 3.90  5.05 ~55  6.~0 6.90  7.45' 9.40 8.20 •10.20.  

DEADLINE. All classifieds must be received by 5:00 pm, two days prior to the issue in which the ad is to run. The Observer office will <3;Ccept classifieds Monday through Firday, 
10:00 am to 5:00pm. 
PAYMENT. All classifieds must be pre-paid, either in person or through the mail. 
Classified Ads are non-refundable. 

Kurth explained that a meeting of several women's groups was called and that one of the sugges­tions that came up at the meeting was the use of whistles. A committee chaired by Kurth asked the engineering department on campus to run tests of some noise-makers and whistles and they "came up with some eye-opening things." 
Based on the results of the tests, Kurth's committee decided that a type of police whistle on a break-away chain that could be worn around the neck would prove more effective than noisemakers which are "much less handy and generally more expensive." Once the committe had decided on the particular type of whistle to use, they did extensive research on the effectiveness of existing whistle programs. 
Desperate: Need up to 6USC tlcbtl· will 
pay excellent price. Call Frank m­
2516. 
Several young men for campus sales work. This will not be door to door. Contact Miss Eddie at The Knights. 272-ll312 or 272·8471. 
If you have a USC ticket to sell, Call Micliael. (Even if you don't have a ticket to sell, call Michael) 1054. 
One student USC ticket. Call Chuck at 
1436. 
I WILL BE FOREVER IN DEBT TO YOU If you sell a pair (2) of Ga tickets for the USC game. My parents want to come and cheer for old. Notre Dame. Will pay $$$$$. Call Mary 1313. 
Needed: Five Ga tix for USC. Call Telana • 4·5745. 
Need 2 Southern Cal tix. Beth 272·2340. 
4 USC tickets. Will pay good bucks. Call Jim at 1419. 
THE NAVY GAME Who needs tickets for the Navy Game. I DO!!! 2 GA tickets. Call Martha, 1715, 8086. 
Need 3 USC tickets, Ga or student. Call Jerry, 8461. 
Need ride to Wash. D.C. area for break. Will share$ & driving. Call Marty 8389. 
NEED RIDE TO DAVENPORT* lA or as far west on Rt. 80 as possible. To leave Friday, Oct. 7th, anytime around noon or later. Call Terry 1684. 
Need 2·6 Ga tickets for Tech. or So. Cal game. Call Tim at 1133. 
Desperately need 3 or 4 tickets to USC game. Call287·8479. You name the price! 
Need 1·5 USC GA tickets. Good money. 
Call Kevin 8713. 
I need 2 GA's for the Navy game. John 1184, call after 6 p.m. 
FOR SALE 
Pandora's has new & used books for many N D classes. And, atwo for one sale on their iterature books. Open 11 to 7 daily. 
Used typist. Call 8051. 
AUDlO OUTLET: Top name stereo equipment. Wholesale. Call 7781. 
Alto sax mint. Gibson Heritage with case. 
Best offer for either. Call 288·3706. 
-PEiifDNALS______ 
Therese R. Do you still live in 3-N Lewis? If so, bless us with your presence sometime in the next month. 
Sewing repairs. Call 8051. 
Sorry, G, forgot to put it in earlier. 
G 
Sandy, Identifier of the famous SCHLE· FERA (?) plant in 2-North Keenan. I'd like to talk with you again. Joe 3262. 
Young, Happy B·day yesterday! Did you go swimming? 
Lois' Tall Neighbor 
A friendly hello to Freight Train, Keep on Truckln', and don't let the flags fly. 
KEN· Had afew spare moments and Just wanted to say "HEY"!! Hope you're• feeling better. 
"We found that though it's a very small, simple thing, it works," Kurth said. "It's a non-violent way of preventing violence." 
The WhistleStop program in Highland Park, lll., served as a basis for most of the committee's research. According to Kurth, the program there has not had a problem with people abusing the whistles, which was a major con­cern of the committee. Whistle­Stop has actually proven quite effective in the prevention of rape and other violent crimes, Kurth said. 
The Madison program opened on Sept. 9. "We've sold approximate­ly 800 whistles so far at 51.35 each," Kurth stated. 
End of part two. tomorrow's article wUI delll with tnnsport.atlon and security penonnel. 
TM, What do you 11111111, having 1 problem saying no? 
G 
Mothers lock up your daughters, and shepherds lock up your sheep Because Greg Higgins and Gene Golden are coming for USC. Tickets needed. Murph 289-8643. 
Prof. Thompson, Does asphalt ductility have anything to do with the birthrate of NYC? 
11 a.m. class 
Dear Ted and Jen, Brucie, Flo, Eddie and Sweeny say hi. Howz the Iii apple? 
Murph, You were quite the athlete at the Lacrosse game Sat., as well as at the lnterhall Swim Meetlast year. 
G 
Hey, Pat, How was that??? 
VJ, 
T 
w 
E 
N T 
y 
1!!! 
3-North Lewis is taking applications for Nov. 11 formal. Send resume including photograph to Box 342 Lewis Hall. Make appointment by calling 7510. Only 34 positions available, so apply early. Equal opportunity employer. 
Jules: On Oct 4, 1956 something happened ... and then I was a roommate. Happy 21st. 
Judy T., This is your very own personal. Good luck on the Dirt test. 
Tut:iE~If vectorspacastilveblrtlidlys than matrices and flow charts must also. Happy 21st. Proof deferred until a later date.

_________________ u 
I'd better get a million personals for my 21st!!! G 
JJ, 
Tonight!! 
That's not one of mine! 
Call Michael!!! (See Wanted's for de· tails) 
Hey, JJ, are you taking the LSAT's Sat.? 
Yes, that's mine. 
NO-HENRY DIDN'T PASSOUT, HE JUST WENT TO SLEEP-VERY QUICK­LY!! 
Jerry Hoilman steals cereal. 
SCU • Who are you and why are we complaining? Katie & Byrne 
-------~--------­
Christmas Camel, I love you. Luskus Delph 
Jerry, Frank (Flashy dresser), Rock, Tom, Steve, Pete, & Bob(?), Terrific luch today (I can't believe I mis-type my own ad!!) No, you didn't gross me out. G 
to the Archway, We want to be your sweetheart because we like your cookies. 
8studs from 4-N·S 
Hey Dillon, What's Big Red and in Grace Hall? 
Kevin Cope, Because you have to honor of belng JJ Norkus' roommate, you must also suffer the abuses of the Obser~er Personals.
1 
. G r I i 


I lllBL--....Ithu..l.!elil.....lo~~~.bY.filsmeurv~aur_____T.:...:ue:.::..::sd=av, ~~!!.t:r 4, 1977
I 
Undefeated JVs blank Boilermakers 

by Gregory Solman Sports Writer 

One fact certainly emerged by the end of the Irish Junior Varsity 34-0 trouncing of Purdue's JV squad. Notre Dame has had their share of fair-weather fans. In fact, as one spectator recalled, "the only people that were left by the fourth q~arter .. were relatives and girl­frtends. 
Despite the bitter conditions under which the game was played, it was played well, and with the intensity that readily showed the fans who did stick around, why the Irish JV's are undefeated thus far this year. 
·'These are completely self-mo­tivated individuals," commented a jubilant Coach Francis Peay. "Whereas in the varsity, the players are always performing under fear of demotion, the JV's simply play to 'show what they've got.· and they have fun while they're doing it." 
One player in particular, Pete Pallas, probably enjoyed himself more than anyone else, scoring twice, once on a 16 yard run around end and the second time on a 34 
Ted Robinson<::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:<:==-::;.;::::·=-=-=-=-:·:-::;:;:;:;:-:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;: 

AL Playoffs , . 
...-:-::::;:;:;::::::-.::::::::-:-=-··..; ..·:-:-: .::-·:::==:::;:-:;: One Mans V1ew The American League needs a playoff series like the ensuing battle between the New York Yankees and the Kansas City Royals. After a two-year domination of the World Series by the Cincinnati Reds, the AL seem_s to _boast a legitimate successor to the throne. The only problem ts whtch team, Royals or Yankees? Eitheronecould play on the same field with Philadelphia or Los Angeles, and don't be surprised if this year's World Championship returns to the American League. These. two teams are so evenly matched that some intangibles may have a dtrect bearing on the outcome of the series. For instance, how much of an advantage will Kansas City have playing the final three games on their home artificial surface? Will Kansas City be able to take advantage of the Yankees' defensive deficiencies in the outfield? Can the Yankees overcome the plethora of lefties that Whitey Herzog is bound to throw at them? When you break the teams down into a comparison in four key areas, the evenness of the series becomes evident. HI_TTI~G-~ The Yankees have a slight edge in this department, pnmanly m terms of power. In Yankee Stadium, Chris Chambliss, Reggie Jackson and Graig Nettles all feast on the short right-field porch. When the Royals throw a left-bander, Cliff Johnson adds long-ball punch to the order. The common myth is that the Yankees are weak against lefties. If one was to play the percentages, that would seem to be true, but in actuality. the Yankees have played well against lefties. Lou Piniella had the best year of his career as the right-handed DH and Johnson added needed punch giving either Chambliss or Thurman Munson a rest. The real hitting advantage the Yankees have is the leadoff spot. Once again this year, Mickey Rivers proved to be baseball's best leadoff man. He had his best year in the majors with a .326 batting average and 70 runs batted in. His decreased stolen base total is a credit to the Yankees' conservative style of play this year, but the threat to run remains. On the other had, the Royals don't have a legitimate leadoff hitter. George Brett has spent much of the latter part of the season filling that spot, but he's too good a hitter to stay there. If the Royals play smart baseball, Amos Otis will inherit the leadoff spot. Anothe~ factor working against the Royals is their lack of a legitimate clean~p _ht~er. AI Cowens had a super year, but he isn't the slugger who mtlmtdates you when he gets into the batter's box. John Mayberry is, but he hasn't produced in three years. Overall, in Yankee Stadium, the Yankees have a big edge with their trio of lefties who can all hit left-handed pitchers. The Royals' main threats are righties and Yankee Stadium has a large expanse of territory in left-center field. On the turf, the Royals will get more production out of Fred Patek, Frank White and Hal McRae. The Yankees will have to counter witrh good production out of Willie Randolph, Roy White and Bucky Dent. Power won't mean as much in Royals Stadium. PITCHING---Again, the Yankees have a slight edge. Don Gullett and Ron Guidry have pitched well in the stretch and should hold the Royals in check for the first two games at Yankee Stadium. They'll have to or else the Yanks will be out of it early. Mike Torrez was a solid second half pitcher and Ed Figueroa is shaky but somehow manages to win. And when the starters falter, the Yankees own the AL's top reliever in Sparky Lyle. Just when New Yorkers were preparing to run Sparky out of town, he responded with a superb season. That one tough reliever means a lot in a short series. Meanwhile, the Royals' bullpen is average at best. Mark Littell, victim of Chambliss' ninth-inning homer last year in Game S, gets many praises but is the owner of a bloated 3. 78 ERA. Marty Pattin and Doug Bird are not much of an imrovement. That puts the pressure on the starters and the Royals have four lefties ready to hurl in Paul Splittorff, Jim Colborn, Andy Hassler and Larry Gura. The question is what happens to 20-game winner Dennis Leonard? The Royals better hope for some superlative performaces from that left-handed crew. FIELDING---The Royals have a clear-cut edge. The infield is solid, and so are Otis and Cowens. Left field is poor with Tom Poquette and Joe Zdeb, and that could hurt them because Yankee Stadium's left field is one of the toughest in the majors. The Yankees also have a 6olid infield, but the outfield is vastly different story. White and Rivers can cover the ground, but can't hit the broad side of a bam. Jackson can throw with the best of them, but [continued on page 6) . 
yard pass from Tim Koegel. 
After the first score, Pallas threatened to spike the ball, then reconsidered, setting the ball gent­ly on the ground. Upon the occasion of his second touchdown, however, Pallas could restrain his emotions no longer, as he sqeek­dunked the ball from the goal post to the ground. 
Though Pallas' escapades were much appreciated by the frozen fans, they weren't appreciated by the coaches as Pallas was removed from the game at the beginning of the second half. 
Meanwhile, the aerial antics of freshmen quarterbacks Tim Koegel (8-16-1, 140 yards), Greg Knafelc, (4-9-0, 59 yards) and Mike Courey. who left the game early in the first period with a sprained ankle, were enough to keep the Boilermakers behind. 
A seven yard Knafelc to Kevin Hart pass etched the Irish first "six" into the scoreboard, and Joe Unis added the extra point. Unis then booted a 34 yard field goal to give the Irish a 10-0 lead, and then, Pete Pallas scored his two touch­downs, rejoiced, and consequently, left the game. 
Meanwhile, the ferocious Irish defense was giving Purdue nothing, conceding only 69 yards on the ground and 84 yards in the air. 
Coach Peay listed the defensive line of John "JT" Thomas, Bob Gagnon, Mark Pulawski and Rob Bush as being outstanding for the day, as well as Tom Gibbons, who returned an intercepted pass 48 yards to set up a touchdown. Tom Wroblewski was also cited outstanding. 
Aided by good field position (one untouched Purdue punt went four yards) and led by the freshmen phenoms at the helm, the Irish pushed for another Joe Unis 26 field goal and 13 yard Koegel to Leo Driscoll touchdown pass. Tom Male nailed the extra point. 
Coach Peay fulfilled one of his major objectives Sunday by getting the whole squad into the game, something he feels obligated to do for his team. 
''These fellows work extremely hard, some of them not even receiving scholarships," he re­lated, "and I feel gratified when I can get everyone into the game." 
Pete Pallas took his "half a game" suspension with a grain of salt, saying, "I came to practice early for a week practicing that spike. I was anticipating a good game." 

Braves defeat Cavs, 106-93 
This leaping defensive end typifies the intensity of play Saturday, as the Irish nailed Purdue, 34-0. [Photo by Greg Solman] 
by Ted Robinson Sports Writer 
It was the perfect opportunity for three Notre Dame basketball greats to show the people of South Bend that some magic could still be performed under the dome of the ACC. Only one, John Shumate , chose to use the opportunity to play basketball as Buffalo beat Cleve­land 106-93 in a pre-season NBA game last Friday night. 
The Braves were torn apart by new owner John Y. Brown in the off-season, and Shumate was one of only four Brave players re­maining from last year's squad. If there would be any trouble ad­justing to the new situation, Schu­mate won't admit it. 
"I don't anticipate any trouble adjusting to the new faces," Schu­mate said. "We're all professionals and this is part of the game." 
The revamped Braves dominated a veteran Cavalier squad that has made two consecutive playoff ap­pearances. Former Irish greats Austin Carr and Gary Brokaw comprised the starting backcourt, 

but their combined contribution was a meager five points. Meanwhile, the Braves executed 
on offense as if they had been together for years. Tiny Archibald ran the show as only he can, contributing only 6 points but dishing out 12 assists. Billy Knight, the NBA's second-leading scorer last year, flowed smoothly on offense and added 18 points. And retreads Chuck Williams, John Neumann and Jim McDaniels gave the Braves a semblance of a bench. 
But in the eyes of the Irish fans, Shumate stole the show. After a slow start, Shumate began to take charge after Knight drew his third personal foul midway through the opening stanza. He repeatedly took Cleveland's Jim Brewer under the basket and took passes from Archi­bald and Knight. The final two of his 18 points came on a resounding dunk which was the only one ofthe evening. 
Carr and Brokaw looked out of place in the Cavalier backcourt. The team lacked cohesiveness and as a result, Campy Russell took 

\...' 
.. 
"I wasn't t~ying to steal it," intimates Tiny Archibald, as he faced john Shumate !If the ACC. [Photo by john Calcutt] 
charge of the ball. Knight was unable to contain him and Russell's 16 first-half points kept Cleveland in the game. 
Carr never looked for the shot which was the prime characteristic of his Notre Dame career. The entire Cavalier backcourt produced only 20 points in the game and enabled the Brave guards to sag in the middle against Jim Chones and Elmore Smith. 
It was only the second exhibition game of the year for both teams and both coaches were looking at their rookie and free-agent talent. The Cavs will undoubtedly be a strong team again this year, but the performance of Carr and Brokaw leaves doubt as to their status for the year. 
For Buffalo Coach Cotton Fitz­simmons, it was a pleasant contin­uation to a pleasant training-camp. 
"I've been happy with what I've seen so far," Fitzsimmons com­mented. "The attitude of the players is good. Now that the ownership situation is settled, we should be able to get our minds directed towards basketball. If we can improve our defense, we'll be contenders." 
Skiers to meet 
The ND-SMC Ski team will hold an organizational meeting tomor­row, at 8 p.m. in the Engin_eering Auditorium. All who wtsh to participate in the club should attend. There will be films for some prospective trips. 

Ticket exchange available 
Any Notre Dame graduate, law or sophomore student who pur­chased a basketball bleacher seat this summer and would like to exchange that seat for one in the lower arena and pay the $7.50 difference should report to the second floor of the ACC sometime this week. About 150 seats still remain available. 
Information regarding the actual distribution of the student tickets, tickets to the Nov. 18 Russian game and tickets to the games played during the vacations will be forth­coming. 









