

The Observer 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's Vol. XI, No. 93 Friday, March 4, 1977 
Bender/Soma win 
by Patrick Cole Polldcal Writer 
Dave Bender and Tom Soma were elected Student Body President and Vice President by a narrow 22-vote margin last night. 
In the first count of votes, Bender had 2,004 votes, while the ticket of J.P. Russell and John Geppert had accumulated 1,975 ballots. But a recount was taken and it was declared that Bender had received 2,001 votes--50.2 percent of the vote--to Russell's 1,979 votes which was 49.7 percent of the vote. 
In barely getting a majority, Bender carried 15 halls on campus, with the most votes coming from Grace Hall at 171. In fact, Grace provided Bender with his widest margin of support with 76 ballots. Bender won by a margin of 66 votes in Pangborn, the residence ofSBVP-elect Soma.Bendercarried his hall, Sorin, by a 94 to 37 vote. 
Russell showed considerable strength in Flanner and in Geppert's hall, Dillon, gaining 229 and 222 votes respectively, to Bender's 80 and 57 votes in these halls. Russell also carried his hall, Holy Cross, with 141 votes to Bender's 20 votes. Russell won the off-campus ballot race 82 to SO. 
There were also 68 write-in ballots in the 
election. Sixteen halls, including off-campus 
ballots, contributed votes for other candi­
dates. 
Overall, 3,980 students voted in this 
election, which is an increase from the 3,587 
ballots cast in last year's election in which 
Mike Gassman and Mike Casey won with 
2,062 votes. 
Petition drive tops signature goal 
by Marian Ulicny Senior Staff Reporter 
The Ob8erver has obtained suffi­cient signatures in its petition drive to approve a subscription rate increase for Notre Dame students beginning in September, according to Tom O'Neil, editor-in-chief. 
The drive was organized Feb. 21 after University officers requested a"reasonableexpression of student consent'' before the proposed rate increase from $3 to $6 could be put into effect. At a final count, the petitions totaled 3,956 signatures, representing 58.4 percent of the student body. These figures exceeded the 3,389 signatures (50 percent plus one student) needed to approve the raise in rate. 
Additional signatures were ga­thered at lu!'!ch yesterday to make up for duplicate names and those of St. Mary's and graduate students. "We had to be careful we had enough," O'Neil explained. 
Ombudsman services conducted telephone survey last night to verify a sample of the petition signatures. "We randomly picked out individual names from the sheets, called them up, and asked if they had signed the petition," Bridget O'Donnell, 0·~budsman head, explained, adding, "All were affirmative." 
"We did it just as an unbiased verification for the benefit of Student Affairs," she stated. 
Thomas Mason, vice-president for bu~incss affairs, notified The Ohscrvcr that ihc required number of \i).{nalurL.:~ had been vcrilicd bv 
~----------------------------------~ 
University officers. The University will n0w co-sponsor a bank loan of approximately $5,000 with The Observer to finance continued pub­lication this year. 
"We have a lot of people who have not been paid in a month," O'Neil stated. "With the loan, the staff will begin to be paid this coming week." 
According to O'Neil, the drive was slightly delayed after the first week. "Originally, we thought our deficit figures alone would be enough to justify our request for an increase, but student leaders and campus organizations wanted to see our total budget," he stated. Petition circulation was stopped until the current and projected budgets were publicized. 
A petition drive at St. Mary's is underway. Approximately 900 signatures are necessary, and half that amount has been obtained. There is no deadline for the names, but "it's expected that we'll reach the required number before break,'' O'N... il stated. 
Itis undecidc.d whether graduate students will be polled regarding their willingness to pay for Observer subscriptions. O'Neil expressed the opinion that a cur­rent poll is unlikely. "Approaching the grads for funds becomes an option for editors in the future in case the need arises," he added. 
Efforts to halt the petition drive were not successful. Posters to that effect displayed outside the dining halls and an anonymous anti-petition failed to gain enough support to vote down the rate incrca\c. 
Bender, a junior from Ojai, Calif., and Soma, a sophomore from Westland, Mich., were grateful for the support they received from workers. 
"I want to thank the 150 people who worked for us during the campaign, • • Bender said. "It was a real grass roots campaign. I think that fact plus the high voter turnout shows that apathy is not the way of life for the students." 
"I would also like to thank John Talbot and Jim Hughes for their support," Bender added. 
Soma commented on the two candidates' intentions for student government. "Our challenge is to stay open and to stay honest," he said. "We promised in our campaign to focus our administration on the concerns of the students, and we hope to fulfill that promise." 
Soma continued, saying that their victory was made possible because "we had the best people working for us." 
Likewise, Russell and Geppert thanked the supporters in their campaign. "We extend our warmest heart-felt thanks to everyone ·who supported us and devoted time to our campaign," the two candidates commented in a written statement. "We also pledge our support to Bender and Soma so that they will take office with an overwhelming majority of the student body," the joint statement read. Russell and Geppert also pledged to "be available." 
Student Body President-elect Bender and Vice President-elect Soma will take office on April 1. The new officers announced their first open forum is tentatively scheduled for 
Friday, April 8. 
Anti-Christian tribal purge 
Ugandan violence reported 
NAIROBI, Kenya [AP] -Refugees from Uganda claimed yesterday that President Idi Amin is continu­ing a bloody purge of Christian tribes in his troubled East African country. 
Kenyan church sources in touch with American missionaries in Uganda, however, said they have received no reports of Americans being molested and that mission­aries there appear determined to remain in the country and continue their work. Other missionaries, they said, are waiting in neighbor­ing Kenya for a suitable time to go to Uganda. 
The sources stressed that in de­pendent confirmation of refugee reports is difficult to obtain and there is no accurate estimate of the number of persons killed. 
Reports reaching Nairobi from refugees recently arrived from Uganda said Amin's purge of Acholi and Langi tribesmen and other Christians involved wide­spread killings and arrests. 
A spokesman for the Roman 
Catholic Holy Cross Order, which 
has 35 American missionaries in 
Uganda, said in Nairobi: 
"I speak to them-the mission­
aries_ every day. They are in very 
good spirits and are all staying in 
Uganda. Nobody has pressed the 
panic button yet." 
Several have returned to the 
country in the past few days, he 
said. 
In another development yester­
day, a Kenyan newspaper quoting 
West German intelligence sources 
said a spectacular hijack was to 
.. have been .staged at Uganda's ·campus during eoinml·nn·nwi•f are 
Dave Bender (right) and Tom Soma won yesterday's SBP election with a 22 vote margin. 

Final results 
Hall Bender-Soma 
Alumni 114 Badin 64 B-P 100 Cavanaugh 76 Dillon 57 Farley 92 Fisher 75 Flanner 80 Grace 171 Holy Cross 20 Howard 75 Keenan 134 Lewis 118 Lyons 98 Morrissey 119 0-C so Pangborn 127 St. Ed's 38 Sorin 94 Stanford 122 Walsh 64 Zahm 113 
TOTAL .2001 
Total votes: 3980 50.28% 
Entebbe Airport to coincide with an expulsion of American nationals fromUganda. The report was dis­counted abroad. 
The newspaper, the mass-circu­lation DaUy Nation, said it had reliable information that a plane was to be provided by the Ugan­dans after Amin ordered the Am­ericans to leave .the country during a meeting he had scheduled with them earlier this week. 
The plane would then have been hijacked by members of the Popu­lar Front for the Liberation of Palestine who would have mingled 
Students must sign up to keep rooms after May 18 
by Kevin Gorman 
The Commencement Accomoda­tions Committee (CAC) has distri­buted information to students this week concerning those who wish to remain in their dorm rooms through commencement weekend, May 20, 21, 22. 
The University is expecting 2,500 guests for the weekend. Room applications from the parents of graduating seniors are expected to begin arriving next month. As in the past, to prepare for the guests roor.ts on campus must be vacated by noon on May 18. Those who wish to remain in their rooms past that date should submit a letter to the CAC by ~a~ch 10. . 
Students cltg•bll' to remam on members of s-tudent organizations or the brother, sister or fiance( e) of a graduating senior. Students should notify the CAC that they are a relative cr fiance( e) of a graduate. The director of the organization of which a student is a member must notify the CAC that the student's presence is required. 
At St. Mary's, Housing Coordin­ator Minnie Owens said informa­tion will be distributed to students sometime =>.fter midsemester break. The girls will register at their hall desks if they wish to remain for graduation. One dormitory will be used to house all students and a nominal fee will be charged. 
Those who do not sign up to remain for l{raduation an• cxpcl'ft•d to haH' v~ :atcd thl'ir rooms b~· .~r;hlu;ilion \\'l'l'kl'iJ(l. '· 
Rossell-Geppert Other 
79 0 34 0 74 1 79 1 222 2 94 0 55 7 229 4 95 7 141 0 69 5 93 14 79 0 48 5 98 1 82 3 61 5 70 2 37 1 103 3 60 0 77 7 
1979 68 
49.72"7o 
with the Americans before board­ing the aircraft, the newspaper said. 
The American and West German embassies in Niarobi said they had no information on the alleged hijack plan. In Bonn, a Foreign Ministry representative, noting the newspaper report was allegedly based on a West German intel­ligence report, said no such report had been received by the ministry. 
Amin last week barred the Americans from leaving in appar­ent anger over President Carter's 
(condnued on page 10) 
the observer Friday, March 4, 1977
2 

On Campus Today 
friday march 4 

Gl Bill amendment restricts payment on dropped courses 
f 
t 
I 
I ~ 
! 
l 
~ 
l I 
I 
11 am ­3 pm _ 
12:15 
pm­

12:15 
pm­


4pm­
4:30pm­
5:15pm­7, 9, 11 pm­7 pm-
7:30pm­
7:30pm­
8 pm­
8 pm­
8 pm­
8 pm­
9 pm­midnight-
sculpture exhibition. moria marti/geoffrion exhibit soft sculpture and weavings, isis galler in old field house, free. 
mass celebrated by fr. griffin, Iafortune ballroom. 
travelouge series, "peru's ancient civilizations" by 
s.m. shapiro, assoc. prof. of history, sponsored by bio dept., bio. aud. rm. 278, galvin. 
•seminar. "experiment versus theory for small molecules" by dr. edel wasserman, dir. of chemical research center, allied chemical co., morristown, n.j., conference rm., rad. lab. 
lecture. "homotopy groups of algebraic manifolds, by prof. andrew sommese of cornell univ., room 226, ccmb. 
mass and dinner at bulla shed. 
film. "blazing saddles," sponsored by the junior class, eng. aud. 
bible study. campus crusade for christ, grace hall penthouse. 
film. "plum flower" and "beautiful taiwan," library aud. 
hockey, univ. of wisconsin at n.d., ace. 
drama. "they" o'laughlin aud., admission $2.50, students $2. 
opera dance. opera, "the telephone" by giancarlo menotti, followed by nd/smc dance ensemble in recital, washington hall. 
chapel choir third annual waltz ball. music by a live string quartet, free refreshments, everyone wel­come, Iafortune ballroom, admission: $2.50 per couple, $1.50 per person. 
bridge. duplicate bridge, university club. 
nazz. david faainuinu, nazz. free 
saturday march 5 
11 am ­3 pm ­
afternoon­
12:30 pm-6:30pm­7-9 pm­
7, 9, 11 pm-
7:30pm­
8pm· 
8 pm­
sunday march 6 
1:31.-­
6pm­
7, 9,11 pm­
8 pm 8 pm­8 pm­
8 pm­
8-10 pm. 
sculpture exhibition. moira marti geoffrion exhibit soft sculpture and weavings, isis gallery. 
track meet. n.d. track team at drake, dual.meet. 
basketball. univ. of san francisco at n.d., ace. film. "blank paper," library aud. & lounge. comp opening. (goett, lewis willoughby, butler) 
moreau gallery, smc. 
film. "everything you wanted to know ... ," engi­neering aud. hockey. wisconsin at n.d., ace. opera dance. "the telephone" followed by nd/smc 
dance ensemble recital, washington hall. drama. "they." o'laughlin aud. admission $2.50, students $2. 
boxing.  semi-finals  bengal  bouts,  admiss'ion:  $2,  
students $1., ace.  
workshop.  decision  making  workshop,  rm.  141,  

regina hall. 
film. "everything you wanted to know ... ," spon­sored by c.i.l.a., engineering aud. 
opera dance. "the telephone" followed by nd/smc dance ensemble in recital, washington hall. 
ballet. evanston concert ballet, o'laughlin aud., sponsored by cultural arts commission of n.d. 
film. "il posto, or the sound of trumpets," smc carol hall. 
"Jpening. annd peeler, annd hunckler, sharon /adewski, joan bontempo and elouise tomei; display works in ceramics, painting, sculpture and silk­screen, isis galler, free. 
darby's. "shamrock get-together," sing and dance to irish :nusic. darby's place. 
The Observer is published Monday through Friday and weekly during the summer session, except during the exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for S20 per year {S10 per semester) from The Obser­ver, Box Q, Notrr Dame, Indiana 46556. Second cll'ss postage paid, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved ,
1 
Shamrock party 
set for Sun. 
A "Shamrock Get-Together" will be held this Sunday night in the LaFortune basement. All are welcome to come and sing, dance and enjoy Irish music, from 8-10 p.m. 
Veterans going to school under 
the GI Bill could wind up in debt to 
the Federal government if they 
drop courses or receive non-puni­
tive grades under certain 
conditions. 
A recent congressional amend­
ment to the GI Bill requires the 
agency retroactively to cancel 
Assistance payment for a course 
dropped without a grade. This 
applies in cases when a course is 
completed but the grade assigned 
is ignored by the school for 
graduation requirements. 
The new regulations is a major 
change in the Gl· Bill benefit 
payments policy. It does not apply 
when the situation was caused by 
circumstances beyond the student' 
control. 
The new law provides that VA 
Gabriel studies medieval prof 
The medieval professor not only wrote and taught but also occasion­ally settled institutional accounts with local taverns, according to a recent study of a typical humanist scholar of the period by Dr. Astrik 
L. Gabriel of Notre Dame. 
Gabriel's study of the academic 
career of Blasius de Varda, a 
Hungarian member of the English­
German group at the University of 
Paris reveals that the role of 
professor in the Middle Ages was 
intermingled with that of adminis­
trator and treasurer, with de 
Varda, for example, carefully not­
ing the group's expenses, includ­
ing those for celebrations and 
banquets in the famed academic 
taverns of the day. 
Gabriel, a specialist in medieval 
education, used the University's 
extensive collection of some 50,000 
Hungarian books, including many 
rare volumes from the 15th and 16 
century in his research. 
A recent article in a Budapest weekly written by a correspondent who had visited Notre Dame called the Memorial Library's collection the best in Hungarian medieval history existing outside the coun­try. 
A former head of the Univer­sity's Medieval Institute, Gabriel is now director of the University's Folsom Ambrosiana Microfilm and Photographic Collection. 


(*The Observerl 
Tonight's Theme: HELL 
Head Devil: Brimstone Bob 
Ass't Night Editors: Rose­
mary "Devil-may-care" Mills, 
Flaming Katie Kerwin 
Layout Staff: Laurie "The 
devil made me do it" McNulty 
Editorial layout: Jerry 
"Hades Hickey 
Features layout: Satin Satan 
Smith 
Sports layout: Fred "May the 
devil take him" Herbst 
Typists: Gwen Coleman, 
Kathy Egbert, Stephanie 
Urillo, Sue "Styx" Shellen­
barger 
E.M. T: Terri "Cinders" Har­lan Day Editor: Mary Pat "Devil's Advocate" Tarpey Copy Reader: Tom Beelzebub 
I ~;rne.. Barbara "Dante" ~eitenstein 
may not pay educaitonal benefits for any part of a course which is not used in computing graduation requirements. 
Many students will find them­selves overpaid under the GI Bill for courses from which they with­draw and for courses in which the assigned grade is not used in computing the requirements for graduation. Payments for such a course must be stopped as of the first day of the school term or December 1, 1977, whichever date is later. 
If a student withdraws from a course on April 1 under the conditions outlined, VA payments will be terminated retroaCtively to the beginning of the term. In the past, GI Bill payments would have been continued up to the date of withdrawal. The new law prhibits this. 
Students enrolled under the GI Bill areurgednot to drop a course or request a non-punitive grade until they have contacted their school's veterans affairs office. Students should fully understand what effect the withdrawal from a course or grade may have on their monthly VA checks. 
The agency recommends both students and school officials oro­
vide a brief statement concerning 
circumstances of the withdrawal or 
grade assignment when reporting 
it to the VA. 
VA will then determine the effect 
of the circumstances on the with­
drawal or more punitive grade and 
notify the student of the action 
taken to adjust his or her educa­
tional benefits. 
Italian transport crashes 
PISA, Italy [AP] -An Italian air force C130 transport plane loaded with naval cadets crashed yester­day in the mountains, near this central Italian city, military officials said. 
The defense ministry in Rome said the plane was carrying cadets believed to number 38 from the naval academy in Leghorn in addition to the five crew members and an officer. There was no immediate word on casualties. 
The Lockheed transport went down near San Giusto airport here. There is a mountain range nearby. 
Search planes and rescue parties were sent to the crash scene. 
SUNDAY MASSES (Main Church) 
Saturday 5:15p.m.  Rev. Robert Griffin, C.S.C.  
Sunday  9:30 a.m.  Rev. Michael Glockner, C.S.C.  
Sunday  1 0 :45 a.m.  Rev. John Gallen, S.J.  
SUlday  12:15 p.m.  Rev. William Toohey, C.S.C.  

Vespers are at 7:15 p.m. in Lady Cahpel. Rev. John Galeen, S.J. is celebrant. Rev. Charles Sheedy~ C.S.C. is homilist. 
LLJ ~ D
:r:: 
THEY . 
f-
Polish playwright 
Stanislaw Witkiewicz' 
hilarious farce on human 
existence 
Mar. 3,4,$ 
SMC 
THEATRE 
ati;oo p.m. $2.50 ($2 Std, Fac) 
2S4-4176 0'Laughlin Auditorium 

The CAC presents: 
The Evanston Ballet Co. Sunday March 6 0 'Laughlin Auditoriu 
8pm 
ND-SMC Students $2.00 
Tickets available at the S.U. ticket office. 
SKID RO 

Friday, March 4, 1977 the observer 
An Tostal expanded, new events added 

NEW YORK [AP] • If present trends carry into the 1980's, the average cost of a new home will be $78,000 "and only the most afflu­ent groups would be able to afford them," says a report issued yesterday. 
Only 27 percent of American families can afford the 1976 median new-home price of $44,200, ac­cording to the report, "The Na­tion's Housing Needs, 1975 to 1985," done by the MIT-Harvard Joint Center for Urban Studies. 
The report said the trend that could produce an average price of $78,000 for new homes in the 1980's was apparent. ln B70, it said, nearly 47 percent of American families could afford the median new-home price of $23,400. 
The increase in the new-home sales price has been nearly 90 percent between 1970 and 1976, or double the rise in median familiy income, which grew 47 percent from $9,867 to $14,500 in the same period. 
Monthly ownership costs, in­cluding utility costs, property taxes, insurance and mainte­nance, grew even faster, rising 
102.5 percent in the six-year per­iod, the report said. 
It found that among 12.8 million families, high rents and other spiraling costs are replacing over­crowding or physically inadequate housing as the chief problem. 
Ticket manager asks cooperation 
Student Union Ticket Manager Chris McCabe yesterday asked students to cooperate with his organization in clearing up pro­blems generated by the theft of checks and tickets for the Electric Light Orchestra concert. 
McCabe asked that all students 
who have stopped payment on the 
checks for their tickets contact 
Student Union immediately. 
He also urged anyone who has 
knowledge of the whereabouts of 
the stolen tickets to inform Student 
Union. 
McCabe said that all of the stolen tickets have been nullified and will not be honored for the March 25 concert. 
The main culprits for the rise in the next decade as the effects of the the new housing prices have been post-war baby boom subsides. inflation, higher construction and 
"We will have additional spacematerial costs, higher land costs, and larger interest charges for both 
in existing housing. The cost of the builder and home bun·~, young and old people living on their own will continue up because 
Other factors that will shape the young families have put pressure future national housing ne· ..::.. ·were on rents. These factors point to outlined by the two MIT proiessors more use of existing homes and a who wrote the report, Bernard J. slowdown of new household Frieden and Arthur P. Solomon: growth," Solomon said. 
·Migration is occurring not only Demand in the 1980's should from the North to the South, but increase, however, for modest­from metropolitan areas to the sized housing for young families country. Thus many cities and expected to raise fewer children. even suburbs could end up with a 
the report did not propose specifichousing surplus while small cities changes in national policy' andand towns may face substantial F~ederi said, "No single strategyhousing shortages. 
wtll go very far in solving the Over all, Solomon told reporters problems.'' that "we are building 300,000 to 
However, he .. suggested that 400,000 units below the necessary" since one of the worst problemsneed to meet current household was families' inability to meetgrowth and · replace obsolete rising housing costs, some sort ofhousing. 
"incomes policy," possibly includ­-GroWth in the number and size ing cash grants to home buyers of the households will slow down in 
might be necessary. ' 
senior men's night out!!! 
library Monday March 7th 1977 
how long can you last? 
(9-?) 
_./" 
/1/~tffl \''' 
$1.00 all you can drink beer & shots senior ID's mandatory! senior MEN only. 
by Chris Hopkins 
An Tostal, traditionally as a three-day event, is being expanded this year · to a five-day festival beginning on Wednesday, April20 and closing Sunday, April 25. 
The philosophy behind the ex­tension of the festival is to insure adequate time for the annual events as well as to facilitate the addition . of several new happen­ings. 
Keefe Montgomery, An Tostal coordinator, outinged the festival activities, which begin Wednesday afternoon with a pre-Irish Wake happy hour at Fat Wally's. Cou­pons sold by student government for the happy hour will allow the students to take advantage of the specials valued at three to five dollars. Bridget McGuire's Tavern will also be sponsoring a happy hour following the one at Fat Wally's. 
The majority of Thursday's act­ivities will take palce on St. Mary's campus with annual games to include the dunking booth, jail, the pie-in-the-face contest and a ten­tatively planned beer garden with a live band. 
The newest addition to this 
year's An Tostal will be a profes­
sional circus from New York on the 
St. Mary's campus. Two shows are 
presently scheduled for 1 p.m. and 
3 p.m., Thursday, April 21. 
The Mr. Campus contest will be 
held later that day on the front 
porch of Sorin Hall. 
On Friday afternoon, the peren­
nial egg and jello tosses, the potato 
sack races, impersonators, keg 
tosses and car-stuffing competition 
will all occur on the South Quad. 
The evening event, Recess 103, 
will take place in Stepan Center 
with children's games of musical 
chairs, jacks, jump rope, tricycle 
riding, boola-hoop and the ice­
cream eating contest sponsored by Farrell's Ice Cream. New additions to Recess 103 will include a clay sculpture tournament, fingerpaint­ing and cartoon caricatures. 
Saturday's amusements begin early with the decathlon and road rally. A picnic will be held on both quads, with 500 co-ex tickets given to St. Mary's for this activity. The chariot parade will then lead a parade to the An Tostal field by Stepan Center, where the day's games will take place. The chariot race will be the first event to be followed by the mud tug-of-war, mud volleyball and basketball games, the semi-finals in bookstore basketball and a surprise event to be announced. 
The night hours will offer an ACC concert, presently in the bargaining stages, succeeded by the Irish Wake at Stepan Center which will have many characteris­tics of the homecoming dance, according to Montgomery. 
The final day of An Tostal will include the final game of bookstore basketball tournament and the consolation game, along with the jocks vs. women's basketball con­test anlf finally, the slam dunking contest featuring some of the Irish round bailers. 
One other movement of the An 
Tostal coordinators which is still 
very much in the organizing stages, 
is to attain special guests for the 
festivaL Presently the committee is 
hoping to obtain Farrah Fawcett­
Majors and Bruce Jenner, Olympic 
decathlon victor. 
Montgomery is looking for stu­
dent suggestions to name each 
added day of An Tostal, such as 
"Wicked Wednesday." Students 
are asked to call Montgomery or 
leave their ideas at the student 
government offices. According to 
Montgomery this may take the 
form of a contest where the student 
with the best proposal will receive a 
free An Tostal t-shirt. 
Rescue attempt continues in Pennsylvania mine 
TOWER CITY, Pa. [AP] • Workers moving and outside of our own using hand tools chipped gingerly people, we haven't been able to at a 50-foot-thick coal seam yester-pick up any other sounds." day to rescue a miner trapped alone Adley told his rescuers that he in a tiny cham~er deep under-was alone, Walter Vincinelly, the ground for more than two days. state's top mining officials, said, 
There was no word on seven men adding that, at most, the seven still missing in the mine. Two missing miners could not be more bodies had been recovered. than 250 away in a tunnel adjacent 
While the men worked, Ronald to Adley's rocky cubicle. Adley, who attracted rescuers by Voice contact with Adley was rapping on the walls of his small made at 7:45 p.m. Officials said prison nearly a mile back from the there was plenty of air in the mine mine's entrance, waited with a pocket where Adley was trapped. supply of chewing tobacco and food They said the temperature was pushed to him through a tiny shaft between 45 and 50 degrees. bored through the coal and rock. ''Adley is talking to us,'' 
. "Give me a chew," Adley had Vincinelly said at a Thursday news asked when rescuers finally made briefing. "He's asking how far contact late Wednesday through a we're in. He's sitting there waiting six-inch communications hole. He for us to get to him." also asked for a shot of whisky, but Shutack, an official with federal was sent orange juice instead. Mining Enforcement and Safety 
Adley's tapping was heard by Administration, said Adley was rescue workers at 4:50 p.m. perched on splinterd timber resting Wednesday, nearly 32 hours after a on a 45-degree slope in an area four mass of water crashed through the -by-six-by-eight feet. roof of a shaft where the men were . '',The man is in excellent spir­working in the Kocher Coal Co. tts, Shutack told a news briefing. mine. Shu tack said rescuers were per-
Several men excaped ahead of forating the coal face with a series the surging water, and three were of small holes, then cutting out the injured. But ten men were not coal between the holes with hand accounted for. Later Tuesday, one tools rather than machinery to body was found, and a second was lessen th~ danger of a cave-in. recovered on Wednesday. After the first seven hours of 
Asked about rumors that other work, they had cut a four-foot 
noises had been heard inside the diameter ho!e fr.u feet into the face 
mine, federal mining official John of the coal. 
Shutack replied, "We've heard Later, rescuers said they were 
some reports but we haven't con-moving through the coal at about 
firmed them. Outside of Adley two feet per hour. 
The mine is in Pennsylvania's 
major anthracite, or hard coal,
Omaha Club region, about 40 miles northeast of 
Harris burgh. 
A state mining inspector said
cancels trip yesterday that the area being 
mined was dangerous because of 
The Omaha Club has announced water trapped in abandoned mine 
the cancellation of the mid-semes­shafts, but he said that compared 
ter break trip due to lack of to other mines in the state it was 
intere'>l. relatively safe. 
White House shows interest in efforts to release Liddy 

WASHINGTON (AP] -The Carter administration is showing active interest in efforts by Watergate burglary mastermind G. Gordon Liddy to be released from prison. 
It is giving Liddy attention he never received from the White House of Gerald R. Ford. 
Presidential Counsel Robert Lip­shutz met on Feb. 11 with Liddy's wife and promised to • 'Take a personal interest in the case," according to one participant. 
Lipshutz said his meeting with Ms. Liddy "didn't indicate any prejudgment, one way or the other." But he added, "there has obviously been much more interset in this matter than most any other that we are aware of." 
Liddy, who is seeking a pres­idential commutation of his long prison sentence, has been in prison for 46 months, serving a term of six years, eight months to 20 years -a sentence stretched by another 18 months for his refusal to testify before a Watergate grand jury. He 
·is not eligible for parole until May , 1981. 
Any recommendation for com· mutation of sentence would have to l_e sent to President Carter by Atty. Gen. Griffin Bell who, in turn, would get it from the Justice Department's pardon attorney. 
"We inquired of the attorney general the status of the formal petition which has been filed" and expect to receive it "reasonably soon," Lipshutz said. 
Liddy's application was filed by his lawyer, Peter L. Maroulis, last 
Objectives defined 
CAP program detailed 
by Rosemary Mills Staff Reporter 
With nominations for new mem­bers, the Committee on Academic Progress (CAP) is in the process of re-evaluating its programs and defining its purpose. 
The CAP was formed as an alternative for superior students, according to a bulletin on opportun­ities for superior students. When most colleges were experimenting with honors programs for special students, Notre Dame's College of Arts and Letters designed the CAP to fill the needs of these students within the regular college courses. 
Presently, the CAP consists of 25 to 30 faculty members and 160 Arts and Letters students. The adminis­trative functions of the CAP are managed by a steering committee, whose members are all appointed by the dean. Besides Dean Isabel Charles, Assistant Deans Robert Waddick and James Thompson, and Jemielity, the committee in­cludes professors Goerner, Duffy, Crowe, Nicgorski, Werge, and Barrett. 
The advantages offered by the CAP vary from student to student. Jemielity stated, "It is possible for a good student to be satisfied with the requirements of the college." 
In the past, the CAP has enabled students to graduate in three years. It has designed a one-year program of independent study and given students the opportunity to declare an "ad hoc" major. Also, it offers CAP students the option of early registration, allowing them to enter certain courses which would nor­mally be closed to _them. 
Jemielity noted that many CAP do not take advantage of their opportunity to register early, which he feels is an "exaggerated feat­ure" of the CAP. Statistics show that only 63 students working through 26 advisers used the procedure last semester. 
The CAP also offers a one-to-one student advisory system, although they are not the only such system in existence here. Advisors are as­signed by mutual agreement. "Sometimes a student just has a good experience with a faculty 
....,............. ·.·.··. ·.·.· ·..·.' ·..· ·.. 
member in working closely with him," Jemielity stated. . 
The advantage of the CAP advisor is that he is expected to have a serious non-departmental interest in the student. 
As part of the self-evaluation it is undergoing, the CAP lllay consider rotation of its faculty. -A year ago, the CAP had 55 advisors, of which only three had come to Notre Dame later than 1971. Not only does this close out the junior faculty, Jemiel­ity stated, but it limits the exper­ience of the program. 
Although Jem1elity indicated his belief that the CAP will always be an informal group and have a degree of vagueness in its defini­tion, attempts are currently being made to give the CAP more of a group connotation. The organiza­tion held a meeting last semester, which led to a CAP newsletter. 
Problems which are being con­sidered during the redefinition process are whether CAP students should be allowed to nominate students for admission to the program, whether students can nominate themselves and the CAP policy on collegiate seminar. Reor­ganization of the CAP has already resulted in an elimination of an excessive number of advisors. 
According to Jemielity, the final self-definition of the CAP will be "an informal supporting commun­ity for intelligent serious students in the college of Arts and Letters." 
Admissions procedure 
Admissions to the CAP currently starts with a nomination by either a professor or a CAP student. Profes­sors are asked to submit names of Arts and Letters or intended Arts and Letters students whom they consider suitable for the CAP. While it is possible for a student to be nominated more than once, the services that the CAP can offer to students diminish as they advance in the University. The nominated student has the option of providing the CAP office with additional faculty who will support his nom­ination. The nominees are then asked to submit an intellectual 
. ........·. ·..·. ·, ·.· ·. 
autobiography, outlining the stu­dent's goals and interests at Notre Dame. 
Grades and the autobiography are considered along with an interview conducted by a faculty­student panel of two or three people. The interview concludes the application process. 
Grades, Jemielity commented, "are not the primary or only consideration." While a person with a high GPA might be comfor­table in the college, Jemielity remarked that a person with an intermediate GPA might benefit more by the CAP. 
SMC nomination dates clarified 
Nomination dates for SMC elec­tions will not be altered as was reported in yesterday's Observer. According to Maria Mignanelli, election commissioner, nomina­tions open March 7 and may be made through March 11 at mid­night, when platforms are due. 
Campaigning is from March 21-27 and the election is March 28. 
Sept. 7. But it got nci further than the pardon attorney's office. A Liddy neighbor who has circulated petitions in his behalf, said he tried to contact Philip Buchen, counsel to President Ford. 
"Three days later his secretary called back and said he was too busy to see us and also that it was out of his hands and strictly up to the 
Justice  Department,"  said  the  
neighbor, James Gavin.  
But when  he  made  a  similar  

request to Lipshutz, he said, an appointment was set up for the following week and they had "a very unrushed 35-minute meeting. 
"At the end, he assured ,us he would take a personal interest in the case," Gavin said. "There was no way he could give us a committal one way or another, but he seemed receptive, very· under­standing and sympathetic." 
Liddy currently is in the mini­mum security facility at Allenwood, Pa. With the release of his Water­gate lieutenant E. Howard Hunt last week, Liddy is the last of the original seven Watergate defen­dants still in prison. 
Liddy, convicted of conspiracy, burglary and wiretapping in Janu­ary 1973, failed in June 1975 to obtain a reduction in sentence from 
U.S. District Judge John J. Sirica, who had released other Watergate figures early. 
€h2 i:nlmrial 
Fancakt Hous£ 
OUR SPECIALTY OVEN BAKED APPLE PANCAKES 
You'II be back for more 
US 31 (Dixieway Nor1h) in Roseland (Across from Holiday Inn) 
Prepare for the new MCAT With a new course Where there is always a Difference!!! 
[ fJ"here IS • di({ef'en&e!!! 

PREPARE FOR: 
WDM·WJ·~ 
GMAT • GRE • OCAT VAT • SAT ECFMG ·FLEX NAT'L MEDICAL BOARDS NAT'L DENTAL BOARDS 
Our broad range of programs prov1des an umbrella of test­ing know-how that enables us to offer the best preparatiOn avail3ble, no matter which course is taken. Over 38 years of experience and success. Small classes. Voluminous home study materials. Courses that are constantly up­dated. Permanent centers open days. evenings & week­ends all year. Complete tape facilities tor review of class lessons and tor use of supplementary materials. Make-ups lor missed lessons at our centers. 
MCAT this 
week 
2050 W. Devon 11
fM
11
Chicago, 111. 60645 .,. N· (312) 764-5151 ..... 
EDUCATIONAl CENTER 
Glenmary Missioners Room 35-321 Box 46404 Cincinnati, Ohio 45246 Name_______________ 
Address.________ City________ Zip._________ State_________ 
Age 
'----·-------.. --.----­
,..· 
Friday, March 4, 1977 the observer 
SMC establishes Ireland program 
by Jean Powley Senior Staff Reporter 
St. Mary's has established a new Sophomore Year Abroad program in Ireland, according to St. Mary's President John M. Duggan. About 60 students attended a meeting to discuss the program yesterday afternoon. 
The program, located at St. Patrick's College, 14 miles west of Dublin, will eventually resemble the college's Rome program. Next year, however, will be a pilot project with only a limited number of ND-SMC students accepted. 
The program is arranged partic­ularly for,sophomores who have not yet begun their major courses. All liberal arts core requirements, in philosophy, theology, history, sci­ence and· literature, can be com­pleted at St. Patrick's. It is possible that some major require­
. ments may be fulfilled if the student consults with the depart­ment chairman on the home cam­pus and has a sufficient back­ground to enroll in an advanced course. 
Students in certain majors are not eligible to participate, such as those in nursing, chemistry, and biology at St. Mary's and junior arts and letters majors at Notre Dame. 
Students will live in on-campus hostels, with Irish families, or in 
.rented condominiums, all of which are within walking distance of the college. The college doesn't gov­ern or supervise the students' lifestyle at all other than certifying student housing, Duggan said . 
College officials expect costs will be comparable to a year at ND­SMC. Tuition will include round­trip airfare to Ireland. 
Applicants must have a cumula­tive grade point average of 2.5, submit recommendations and un­der go personal interviews in order to be chosen. Applications are due April 1·, and the selections will be made by April 10. Selected stu­dents will not lose their room 
Administration to establish labor-management committees 
NEW YORK (AP) -Treasury Secretary W. Michael Blumenthal said today the administration in­tends to organize labor-manage­ment committees to help keep track of wage and price trends in the economy. 
\Blumenthal said the committee would be one cog in the administra­tion's anti-inflation program. Such committees were suggested by AFL-CIO President George Meany last week as a program in which labor would be willing to partici­pate. , 
Meany had vowed not to partici­pate in any program involving pre-notification of wage or price increases and called for abolition of the government's Council on Wage and Price Stability, which is the current machinery for monitoring inflation. 
Blumenthal said the administra­tion still intends to strengthen the council, but said he does not intend to get involved in ''fruitless argu­ments about the pros and cons of imprecise concepts such as 'pre­notification' on wages and prices ­voluntary or otherwise." 
Blumenthal said he sees nothing , to argue about, since the expiration 
date of major labor contracts is a 
matter of public record and pro-
Students offer tax assistance 
by Mike Humpal 
The accounting department is sponsoring a Tax Assistance Pro­gram (TAP) offering aid in prepar­
ing income tax returns free of 
charge. 
Notre Dame students and South Bend residents with incomes below $12,000 are eligible for the service, ~hich is operated by students under the supervision of two ac-
completed forms. During the first two weeks of 
operation this year, TAP has filed 400 federal and state returns for a 
total of $50,000 in refunds. Last year. the service filed returns for a total exceeding stoo,ooo. 
In addition to their regular
service, TAP offers assistance to persons outside of the South Bend area through the use of what they
call S.W.A.T. (students working against taxation). S.W.A.T. has 
~:~~!frv:~:!i~~~c~:~~:e~riihsr~:;~: 
out Indiana. Notre Dame students are encour­
aged to take advantage of the free service, according toG~>-: Harden, 
a student in the program. TAP can complete a student's form in between IS and 30 minutes. The 
campus location is situated in the 
Lafortune ballroom and is open M d d W d d
Cfr:e~y2 ~.~~ t~y4 ;~m. 
e ncs ay 
~~-~~~cw~~a~;~n~f~~~i~~u~~~~~~~~ 
vides all the pre-notification need­istration officials. It "can serve as a ed. forum where their perspectives on the major issues relating to infla­The secretary made his remarks tion, productivity, employment and 
in a speech prepared for delivery to related economic questions can be The Policy Forum, a New York candidly and thoroughly discuss­group of business leaders. ed," he said. 
Blumenthal said the main labor­
Blumenthal said the administra­management committee would con­tion also will encourage the estab­sist of top representatives from 
lishment of similar committees for both groups, together with admin-individual sector~. 
Oil order nullified 
NEW YORK (AP) -A federal court judge nullified yesterday a Federal Trade Commission (FTC)_ order that would have broken up the nation's major oil companies. 
The judge ordered the. FTC to study the possible environmental impact of the order which would force the oil giants to change the system they now use to sell oil in the United States. 
Currently, the eight oil compan­ies in the case are involved in the oil market from drilling ventures to operating service stations. The commission alleged oil companies are maintaining a non-competitive refining market and proposed di­vestiture of some refining opera­tions and pipelines. It also recom­mended formation of ten to 13 new refining firms. 
In a decision on file here yester­
day, u.s. District Court Judge 
John M. Cannella ordered the commission immediately to begin complying with the National Envir­onmental Policy Act by preparing an environmental impact study. 
The environmental issue was 
pushed by Mobil Oil Corp., Gulf Oil 
Corp., Shell Oil Co. and Standard · Oil Co. of California. The four firms 
were targeted in the FTC complain 
July 18, 1973, along with Exxon 
Corp., Texaco Inc., Atlantic Rich­
:~~!~:g~~rf~~:~f~n?~n~~~~~J~ r~~;,e~~f~an~ca~~=·=a=n=d=St;a:n:d:a:rd=O:i:l:C;o:.~o·f 
The companies urged that the FTC must file an 
environmental ';:=======================:::::
forecast. They warned of economic -­
NQ
w Agreat new COM""V SWJTCHI 
lillI ---• WALT DISNEY PRODUCTIONS'
FRfAKV FRIDPN-. 
~\~~~-:;  ·  ~  
\.1  ~  
DIE FOSTER JOH  

N ASTIN THE FUN STARTS-7:00-9 
mrtuaI -11( HELD 0 VER 
NEXT TO NOITH VILUII MALL 
Michiana Loves The Comed~E~OjtRGOEf TShEeGYALear 
J
rANE FONDA 
~ A tribute to American ingenuity. .-~ 
Y-LFUM WITH DICN ...D _,.,..~"' 
SEE IT FROM THE BEGINNING AT 7:30-9:30 
ry~.(;{­
and environmental injury, "unnec­essary depletion of our nation's natural resources," and possible new pollution from increased fuel consumption to transport petrol­eum products. 
Candy sale to help mission 
St. Mary's Student National Edu­cation Association (SNEA) will sponsor an M&M's candy sale, Monday, March 7 through Friday March 25. Both plain and peanut M&M's will be sold for SO ce11ts a box. Sellers will be stationed in front of the North and South dining 
halls at Notre Dame from March 7 through March 11. At St. Mary's 
sellers will be on the north and south sides of the dining hall and in Lemans lobby across from the hall office through March 25. 
All proceeds go to the mission 
program in Truchas, New Mexico to defray traveling expenses and 
provide teaching materials. Re­
sponsibility for this program was assumed by St. Mary's after Dun­barton College in Washington D.C. closed. For the last four summers St. Mary's students and faculty 
~_:_~_hb_:_:_~_gh_i~-~-et_;_~_~_=_c_t~-i-~-~u-e~-~-a_s_t_o, 
deposit for next year. 
Because St. Patrick's works on a three term schedule, only full-year students will be accepted. Normal load is four courses per term. Credit will be determined by the student's school depending on how many hours a week are spent in the classroom. Students will be credit­ed with at least 30 hours for the year's work. 
Founded in 1795 as a seminary to train priests, St. Patrick's College became a coeducational liberal arts and science college in 1966. It is located in Maynooth, a small, medieval town, bordered by landed estates of fine Georgian architec­ture. 
Recognized as a College of the National University of Ireland since 1909, St. Patrick's at present has about 1500 students with a faculty of 100. 
Questioned about the strife in Northern Ireland's effect on the Maynooth area, Duggan said that St. Patrick's has been unaffected. "That is not a concern for students thinking about studying there," he said. 
Dr. Charles E. Parnell, director of the foreign studies pr.,gram at Notre Dame will determine eligibil­ity for Notre Dame students. Parnell warned students that even though Ireland is an English-speak­ing country, participants must pre­pare for the trip and make an effort to adjust to the Irish way of life. A suggested summer reading list will be provided for students selected in order to acquaint them with their temporary home. 
Applications and further infor­mation may be obtained from Sister Alma M. Peter, 129 LeMans. 
IN MEMORIAM Dr. Louis P. Artau 
Saturday -March 5 9:00A.M. 
Crypt -Sacred Heart Church 
SMC Social Commisston presents: 
''BLAZING 
SADDLES'' March 3rd & March 4th Thurs.-7:30pm 
& 
9:30pm 
Fri. 8pm & llpm (after the Hockey game) 
Admi~OO $}.()() Carroll Hall-Mad'eleua
'W' 
!J!I:::;:;::~:::::::::::~:::::::;:;::~;~~:::::::::::::::::;::;;:;!.;:":::::::::;:;:;~:::::::::::::::::;;;;:;:.:.:~·:·:·:·x·:·;;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~ 
:::: SMC Soc Co t :·:· ~~~~ · -• m • presen S: ~m :~·.~:~..~ .t.=.~=.=
SMC 
:::: :;:; 
;,,,: 
Coffee H0 use I 
F "d M 
n ay, or. 4 
8:30 Jazz Combo 
''The Original Woodgie Lebo Ribbon Section'' 
~1o:oo Chuck-Nowland 
11:00 Terry McHale 
Snackshop Sp'ec1·a/.· 
···· ... 
~~~~ Goliath Cookies 15' j~jj l:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~I~~;:;.SP~P~.-..~::::~P:J::::~22It:;:;:;:::::;:;:::::~ 
"*The Observer an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's 
The Observer is published by students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions and letters are the views of t~eir authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and letters are encouraged to promote the free expression of varying opinions on r:ampus. 
Box QBusiness Manager Tom Fronczak Notre DameAdvertising Manager Mike Miller Ind. 46556Photo Editor Tony Chifari 
EDITORIAL BOARD 
Thomas O'Neil Editor-in-Chief Dan Sanchez Managing Editor Chris Smith Asst. Managing Ed. 
Gregg Bangs Executive Editor Val Zurblis Executiv<> Editor Pat Hanifin Editorial Editor 
Tim O'Reiley Features Editor Bob Mader Exec. News Editor Maureen Flynn Campus Editor Marti Hogan St. Mary's Editor Kathy Mills News Editor Barb Breitenstein News Editor Don Reimer Copy Editor Martha L. Fanning Production Ed1tor Fred Herbst Sports Editor Tom Byrne Contributing Editor 
Friday, March 4, 1977 · 
Faculty Retirement 
The suit filed by Prof. James Danehy against the University over his forced retirement raises two related but separable questions. 'lbe first is whether or not Danehy should be allowed to continue teaching (that depends on · his personal qualifications and we will not comment on it here.) Secondly, Danehy questions the whole retirement procedure at Notre Dame, claiming that it violates his contract and civil rights, and those of any other professor in a similar situation. 
According to the Faculty Manual, a professor goes on emeritus status "on the first day of July following his 65th birthday," and, by the University's inter­pretation, immediately loses tenure. How­ever, he is not necessarily required to retire; he may be re-appointed on a yearly basis as long as the University sees fit. The decision to re-appoint is made according to the standard procedure on appointments set out in the Manual and requires the approval of the department chairman and appointments committee, the college dean, the provost's office and, ultimately, the president. 
However, the situation is complicated by ambiguity in the Faculty Manual rules (which are, in effect, written into profes­sors' contracts). Tenure is simply defined as "permanence of appointment," without reference to age. The section on retirement states that continued teaching after age 65 "will be on the basis of a year-to-year appointment and a member will retire at the end of any service year unless he is re-appointed for another year.'' This implies a loss of tenure but does not explicitly say so.' The University reads this implication as "permanence" until65, while Danehy takes "permanence" as literal and absolute, regardless of age. 
One possible way of handling faculty retirement would be to set a mandatory retirement age, say 65, without any chance of extention. '!ben, no one could take retirement as implying he is prematurely senile. But this would also amount to clear and open age discrimination, since a nrofessor's ability· to continue working would not be taken into account. However, such discrimination is probably illegal and Danehy himself raises precisely this objection to his loss of tenure. 
Permanent tenure, regardless of age, has problems too. Openings for new professors would occur only when senior professors die, voluntarily retire, or are dismissed for ''serious offenses.'' There is a need for young blood and fresh ideas on the faculty, and many bright young scholars are looking for jobs. But this should not be used to throw out exper­ienced professors who have proven their scholarship and teaching ability, and who are highly regarded by their students and colleagues. 
Even considering its problems, much can be said for the present practice of allowing extensions on an individual basis after age 65. It allows the flexibility to deal with special cases, and does not necessar­ily lock professors either into or out of teaching. Unfortunately it is also the most difficult system to practice fairly. It is even more difficult to make it look fair to all concerned, particularly professors reach­ing the age of 65. 
If the individual extension system is to work, faculty members must thoroughly trust the administrators making the decis­ions. That is ·not always the case at Notre Dame, despite talk of the caring Notre Dame family. There has been tension between the faculty and academic adminis­trators, particularly Fr. Burtchaell. Prefer.:. 
ence for lawsuits and strict formal proced­ures is growing nationwide. Under such circumstances it is questionable whether Notre Dame's system of faculty retirement can last much longer. 
All this amounts to saying that the issue of faculty retirement raised by Danehy' s suit is much more complicated than it looks. The conflict is not between right and wrong principles but between right and right, which are always the hardest conflicts to resolve. The University com­munity has not had much success resolving this issue lately. Now the courts will have their chance. 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii p . 0 . B0 X Qiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii~ 
Dear Editor: 
I think most of us here at Notre Dame are aware of the fact the news we read in The Observer is slantedconsiderably. However, I never realized the extent of this partisanship and lack of ethics until a few days ago when I submitted a column reagarding the S.L.C. Mike Casey and I had drafted it as a reply to some of the inaccurate and misleading statements made by Dave Bender and Tom Soma during the election. 
On Monday Tom O'Neil told me that we would be per~itted to put a column in Tuesday's or Wednes­day's paper. I didn't ~ee it on Wednesday! It had been "acci­dentally misplaced." "It would be run on Thursday for sure," Tom explained. 
Late Wednesday night Tom­Soma and one of his supporters also an Observer reporter, per­suaded the Editorial Board not to run our response to their comments regarding the S.L.C. till after they could win the election. The Observer who had endorsed Tom, concurred. 
The justification for this blatant display of partiality was that Mr. Bender and Mr. Soma wouldn't be able to re-explain their platform before the election and this would be unfair to them. 
However, the Editorial Board seems to ignore the fact that Mr. Soma and Mr. Bender have had several opportunities to defend and explain their ri·diculous allegations and proposals concerning the 
SLC. . As an informed an impartial observer of the SBP race I desired an opportunity to critique a plat­form whi'ch touched upon an area I have been inteimately familiary with and to respond to their simplistic and inaccurate charges regarding the SLC in the past. However, the decision was made not to give us the chance to say , anything that might hurt the Edi­torial Board's candidate. We feel that this sort of irresponsible 
biased journalism is disgraceful and perhaps one should think twice before signing The Observer's request for a fee increase. 
Ed Van Tassel 
[Editor's Note:] The Observer re­grets the confusion about Mr. Van Tassel's column. he undoubtly has the right to defend the S.L.C. but after serious consideration we de­cided that it would be unfair to Mr. Bender to run Mr. Van Tassel's strong attack on the Bender-Soma platform on the day of the vote when we could not give Mr. Bender a chance to reply at equal length. 
The case is a difficult one but we decided that there was less poten­tial for unfair harm in holding the column for one day than in printing it on election day. We print the column today in its entirety. (It should be noted that the editors who late Wednesday night decided to hold Mr. Van Tassel's column dissented from the Bender en­dorse-ment editorial. 
opinion 
S. L. C. Future? 
--iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiied van tasse I 
For the past two years I have been North Quad Representative to the S.L.C. During these two years we have addressed ourselves to such long range issues as co-ed housing, cross-roads park, the renovation and improvement of LaFortune, women's athletics, lighting on campus, academic hon­esty, the ice cream shoppe in the Huddle, etc. This year sexuality at Notre Dame, common space in the dorms, and alcohol have been our main concerns. 
Because of the nature of the topics we deal with, most of the results are long range·. It took until this year to see the fruit of last year's work and we still await the completion of projects as extensive as the addition of a Barnaby's type restaurant to the Huddle. 
The S.L.C. is a tri-partite body and one of its biggest assets is the faculty input which often acts as a balance between adamant adminis­trators and insistent students. Their wisdom and insight are invaluable. 
A week ago, I think the S.L.C. had an extremely valuable meeting on sexuality at Notre Dame. At that meeting we tried to summon every person critical to an unders­tanding and solution of this topic. In attendance were many of the most prominent administrators, counselors, etc. Three weeks ago we had a meeting on common space in the halls Statistics heretofore unknown were gathered and the officers of the University were made aware of the critical problem that exists in some of the halls. These are the kinds of issues that the S.L.C. alone i!;i tackling. 
At the moment there seems to be many people who are confused about what the S.L.C. does and is. We have been concerned on the 
S.L.C. about this misunderstan­ding. Nonetheless, we have been continuing the work of solving the most deeply rooted and all-encom~ passing problems that characterize life at Notre Dame. This task is arduous and requires lengthy dis­cussion, conceptualization, the reaching of a consensus and sup­port from people like Bro. Just. Then constructive action is formul­ated to alleviate the problem. 
As we now see the role of the S.L.C., it is to provide a vision for the community, to design a para­digmatic Notre Dame: how we would like Notre Dame to be if our sons and daughters were to come here. The S.L.C. is the only ongoing body that has taken on this important responsibility. further­more, only the S.L.C. has the makeup, freedom and expertise to try to accomplish it. 
Presi~ent-elect Bender's propo­sal to .eliminate the S.L.C. and replace it with a body of rectors and hall social commissioners is an ill-conceived gimmick. 
First, the S.L.C. is a body empowered by the Board of Trus­tees. This means it could not be disbanded at the whim of the SBP and SBVP. Even if it could there would be a considerable lapse until the new body was empowered and organized. Probably about the entire year. This crucial fact seems to have escaped this discussion of the S.L.C.'s future. 
Secondly, rectors are employees of the Office of Student Affairs. We already have their superior Bro. Just on the S.L.C., we don't need an unnecessary middle-man. There is no reason to pack the new council w1th people who are hired and fired by the Office of Student Affairs. This change would only serve to stifle any changes that are already opposed by Student · Affairs (i.e. alcohol rules, parietals, rector evaluations). Already we have had rectors on the S.L.C. and we know that no matter how they feel, ultimately their allegiances lie with Student Affairs. 
Thirdly, hall social commission~ ers are poorly-suited to solve the types of problems the S.L.C. deals with. Although they throw good parties, that is usually their partic­ular talent. 
The very issues . that .some candidates are saying that they think are important but aren't being handled (i.e. common space, lighting on campus) have been always in the S.L.C. domain and as a result of S.L.C. initiative in this area improvements have been made. For example, lighting and 
·LaFortune improvements, two years and one year ago. Also, I believe the statistic in The Obser­ver by one of the candidates regarding common space is the work of 011r S.L.C. committee.. 
In summary I believe that this proposal is based on a serious lack of understanding of the S.L.C. and the realities of Student Govern­ment at Notre Dame. 
opin ion !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
Forced Retirement 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii keith o'conneII 
Dr. James P. Danehy wants to 
continue his duties as a professor at 
the University. However, he will 
be 65 years old in April. Under 
Article III Section tO/Retirement 
''a member of the faculty ordinarily 
retires and becomes emeritus on 
the first day of July following his 
65th birthday.'' 
If the professor loses tenure at 65, the manual should specifically state so. It could state, for instance, that at 6~, the professor loses tenure; and that if they are to continue at the University, it shall be only upon the discretion and approval of the department and only on a year to year basis. 
This, however, is not contained in the Faculty Manual. The Faculty .Manual at best seems vague; retirement is not stated to be 
mandatory. 
There are other professors over 65 years old teaching here at Notre Dame; obviously, then some ex­ceptions are made. If retirement is in fact mandatory, has Dr. Danehy been given the same opportunities? If retirement is not mandatory, then on what basis is Dr. Danehy being asked to leave? 
Dr. Danehy is tenured. Under Article Ill Section 5: "Tenurt' is permanence of appointment. Its purpose is the protection of a,·;a­demic freedom.'· Faculty memhl'rs may be dismissed only for three reasons: 1) "Discontinuance of an Academic Division"; 2) "Circum­stances of extreme financial cause"; or 3) for "Serious Cause." "Serious Cause" in the Faculty Manual is defined as dismissal for one of the following reasons: "dishonesty, professional incom­petence or continued niglect of academic duties, regulations, or responsibilities, conviction of. a felony, continual serious disre­spect or disregard for the Catholic character of this institution, or causing notorious and public scan­dal." 
An attempt at a defense for Dr. Danehy on the above enumerated subsections is unnecessary; none of these appear to be the case. 
At best the situation is very. vague and at worst it can only be described as highly discriminatory or arbitrary. 
This situation deserves an ex­planation. Why is Dr. Danehy being asked to leave? Dr. Danehy is a competent man, very respected for his academic credentials, and concern for this University. Stu­dents consider Dr. Danehy an asset and ask that he be treated fairly; and that his situation be individu­ally evaluated. 
br. Danehy wishes to remain at the llni\'crsily. There appears to be no ration;d t'\planation for his "F<~r•·,·,l rdin·ttll'lll." 
---------~---~­
Entertainment This Week 
by DAVID O'KEEFE 
On the Screen 
Forum 1: Freaky Friday, an oftbeat Disney flick about a mother (Barbara Harris) and a daughter (Jodie Foster) who exchange bodies for a day. Forum 2: Fun with Dick and Jane **Vu George Segal and Jane Fonda are impris­oned in this film, the story of an affluent couple who turn thief after he is canned. Small performances shine like diamonds in a dungheap, i.e. piles of bathroom humor, and not even good at that. Boiler House 1: The Good, the Bad and the Ugly and For a Few DoUars More, two Oint Eastwood films, the former excellent and the latter regrettable. Boiler House 2: The SUver Streak***: Gene Wilder and Jill Clayburgh struggle bravely in this comedy-adventure set aboard a passenger train, but the real fun starts when Richard Pryor shows up. River Park: A Star Is Born**: Not much, really. Just a lot of Barbra Streisand and Kris Kristofferson that received the old Hollywood hard sell. Scottsdale: Network***%: Paddy Chayef­sk.y's brilliant screenplay demolishes the television industry with cunning and sophisticati(!n, two assets notably absent from his earlier similar effort, Hospital. Faye Dunaway, Peter Finch, William Holden, Ned Beatty and Robert Duvall are all tremendous. State: The Cassandra Crossing**: This 
'·'''"'~'· 
As the northern 
grey """"">''"'"''
the land5':apte. 
relics of the nirtet!~el11tbce1nturyt 
their hot"Se~;t~t:ntl tiuggiesin 
after using 
Even the farmers of .a more> 
persuasion have, ei'lded their day to settle 
into their farmhouses;, those solitary out­
posts of agricultural America. 
Inside, however, ,the scenes Norman 
Rockwell so often painted spring off the . 
canvas and come alive. An abundance of 
the fruits of the earth fill the plates as the 
family sits ·· dinner. At a, 
letters to a lonely God 
by REV. ROBERT GRIFFIN 
How Solitary Lies the City 
They've closed the chapel at Brides­
head•••The priest came In and took out the 
altar stone and put It In his bag; then he 
burned the wads of wool with the holy oU 
on them and threw the ash outside; he 
emptied the holy water stoup and blew out 
the lamp In the sanctuary and left the 
tabernacle open and empty, as though 
from now on it was always to be Good 
Friday...I stayed there till he was gone, 
and then, suddenly, there wasn't any 
chapel any more, just an oddly decorated 
room. I can'( teD you what It felt Uke. 
You've never been to Tenebrae, I sup­
pose?" 
"Never." 
"WeD, If you had, you'd know what the 
Jews felt about their temple. Quomodo 
sedet sola civitas ..." 
(from Brideshead Revisited) 
There is a rather awful story of a student 
known'. to these premises who, being 
obliged by his parents to go to Mass on one 
of the ceremonial occasions, received the 
Eucharist in a mood of disbelief. When the 
priest, offering the Host, said, "The Body 
of Christ", the student replied: "A piece 
of bread." The kid's father, overhearing 
him, threatened to punch the kid's head in 
for being so stupid. I hope that the story 
isn't true; or, if it is true, that the kid has 
learned to be ashamed of himself. The 
Eucharist was not diminished in its 
holiness bv the remark; the Eucharist is . used to belng knocked about by those who don't believe in it. But the kid was diminished by being cheap and childish in a holy circumstance. I don't think having his hqad punched in would have assisted 
film could have been better, but it probably wouldn't have made any difference. The chaos inherent in the plot is even too much for Martin Sheen, Richard Harris or Lee Strasberg to overcome, never mind Sophia 
Loren or O.J. Simpson. Town & Country 1: Twillght's Last 
Gleaming: Burt Lancaster has broken into an American nuclear base and threatens to blow us all to smithereens unless the President releases secret documents prov­ing that the war in Viet Nam was not necessary and deliberately prolonged. I 
hope that isn't supposed to be a surprise or anything. Sorry. Town & Country 2: Rocky****: The best. 
Sylvester Stallone is the best. Talia Shire and Burt Young and Burgess Meredith are all the best. The story, about a gutterbum prizefighter who gets a shot at the title, is the best. The cinematography is the best. The directing is the best. But the popcorn 
needed salt. 
On the Tube 
Cuba: The Castro Generation: Howard K. 
Smith spent five weeks in Communist Cuba 
and returned with this fascinating study of 
America's most difficult neighbor as it has 
grown under the leadership of Fidel 
Castro. (Friday, 10:00 pm, 28) 
The Gambler: James Caan turns in an 
outstanding performance in this story of a 
college professor with a compulsion to 
wager. (Sunday, 9:00pm, 28) 
the boy to sensitivity. 
Last summer, at four o'clock in the morning in a New York rectory, I finished reading Evelyn Waugh's novel, Brides­head Revisited. It is a story of an upper class English Catholic family whose for­tunes have been brought low by disasters in the years between the World Wars. The story is told in retrospect by Charles Ryder who has been brought back by the tides of war to Brideshead, the family estate of Sebastian and Julia Flyte. The great private home lras been devastated by neglect and the billeting of troops on the estate, but Charles is comforted by the fact that the chapel at Brideshead, long closed, is again being used by the Army. 
The place was desolate and the work all brought to nothing; Quomodo sedet sola civitas. Vanity of vanities, all is vanity. Something quite remote from anything the buDders intended has come out of their work, and out of the fierce Uttle human tragedy In which I played; something none of us thought about at the time: a small red flame--a beaten-copper lamp of deplorable design, re-lit before the beaten-copper doors of a tabernacle; the flame which the old knights saw from their tombs, which they saw put out; that flame burns again for other soldiers, far from home, farther, In heart, than Acre or Jerusalem. It could not have been lit but for the buDders and the tragedians, and there I found it this morning, burning anew among the old stones. 
The first time I ever received the sacrament of the Lord's Supper was in a, Congregational church in Portland, Maine, when I was a child. It was a Holy Thursday celebration. The service was austere and simple, as Protestant services are some­times apt to be. The hymns tended, as I remember, to look ahead to the death which would be remembered the next day, on Good Friday. For me, after that Communion service, Good Friday and Easter Sunday were anti-climactic. For all the rest of that weekend, my faith and loyalties clung to the events in an Upper Room. I could not stop remembering the Friday, March 4, 1977 
the observer 
The Big Event: Detroit, as it is told, 1\as made two great contributions to America: the automobile and Diana Ross. Tonight, the latter will sing, dance and act for 90 minutes of great entertainment. (Sunday, 9:30pm, 16) The Wind and the Uon: Sean Connery shines as a Moroccan desert chieftain who kidnaps an American widow (Candice Bergen) and sparks an international con­troversy. (Monday, 9:00 pm, 16) Scenes From a Marriage: This is a rare opportunity to see the work of Ingmar Bergman and the director's brilliant star, Liv Ullman. The six-part study explores the institution of marriage through the eyes of a couple married for ten years. (Wednes­day, 10:00 pm, 34) A Circle of Children: Two fine actresses (Jane Alexander and Rachel Roberts) play a pair of women working with autistic children and feuding between themselves. This program may be too deep for most, but those who watch will surely be impressed. (Thursday, 10:00 pm, 28) 
Otl. Campus 
Movie: Everything You Always Wanted to Know About Sex (But Were Afraid to Ask) starring Woody Allen, famous funny person. (Sat. and Sun., 7,9,11, Eng. Aud., $1) Movie: Slngln' In the Rain: How appropriate. Gene Kelly, Dennis O'Conner and Debbie Reynolds star in one of the best Hollywood musicals made. (Tues. and· Wed., 7:30 and 10:00, Eng. Aud., $1, Cinema '77) 
Lord taking bread, blessing wine, inviting disciples to eat and drink. From that event on, I was hooked on faith and the call to ministry. 
After reading Waugh last summer, I realized for almost the first time how uniquely Catholic, how central and funda­mental to our Faith, the Eucharist is. Protestants respect their Communion, but they love their Bible. Catholics like their Bible, but the Eucharist and the Sacra­ments are the heart and soul of their religion. To be a Catholic can weigh on a man like a millstone, if he is not also a practising Catholic, worthy of receiving the Body and Blood of Christ. In Brideshead, the priest attends the dying Lord March­main, Sebastian's and Julia's father, who has not been a practising Catholic for twenty-five years.­
The priest took the little sUver box from his pocket and spoke again In Latin, touching the dying man with an oUy wad; he finished what he had to do, put away the box and gave the Onal blessing. Suddenly Lord Marchmain moved his hand to his forehead; I thought he had felt the touch of the chrism and was wiping it away...But there was no need to fe"; the hand moved slowly down his breast, then to his shoulder, and Lord Marchmain made the sign of the cross. Then I knew the sign I had asked for was not a Uttle thing, not a passing nod of recognition, and a phrase came back to me from my childhood of the vell of the temple being rent from top to bottom. 
As a result of her father's return to the Faith, Julia gives up the idea of marrying her lover, Charles, because he is a divorced man. 
The worse I am, the more I need God. I can't shut myself out from His mercy. That is what it would mean; starting a life with you, without Him. One can only hope to see one step ahead. But I saw today there was one thing unforgivable--the bad thing I was on the point of doing, that I'm not quite bad enough to do; to set up a. rival good to God's. 
Senior Men's Night Out: Go drink Monday night at the Library. One dollar to get in, all you can drink. No rebates. A Night with Farrah Fawcett-M¥»rs: Saturday, 12:00 pm, in your dreams. They: With sparks of artistic insight and courage, Dr. Miles Coiner and the ND/ SMC Threatre present only the second American production of Stanislaw Ignacy Witkiewicz's farce. Matt McKenzie, Michael Feord and Ellen Flach bring to life the story of modern man's destruction of the arts in "pure form." (Tonight and tomorrow night at 8:00 pm at O'Laughlin Auditorium. Tickets for students are $2. Call 284-4176 to reserve tix or for further information). An Evening of Music and Dance: The ND/SMC Theatre, in co-operation with the Notre Dame Music Department, present two unique forms of entertainment in a program under the direction of Charles Ballinger. The "music" is "The Tele­phone,'' a comic opera written by Gian­'Carlo Menotti and directed by David Clark Isele. The dance is "Chabrier," an original ballet by Mim Sparks Field. Tickets are free and may be picked up in room 105 of Crowley Hall. The entire programs last but an hour, so try to avail yourself of this unique opportunity either tonight, tomor­row night, or Sunday at 8:00 pm in Washington Hall. Ballet: The Evanston Concert Ballet will perform Sunday night at 8:00 pm at O'Laughlin Auditorium. Tickets for this very special event, sponsored by the Cultural Arts Commission Dance & Drama series, are $2. 
Sometimes the Catholic faith can seem such awful rubbish; such hocus-pocus and magic ... until you understand it with that perception called "the gift of faith." Perhaps what I call the gift of faith is old-fashioned, conservative, reactionary, but along with the Congregational Com­munion, it was the only truth that ever converted me. If it doesn't underlie all the social justice we preach, all the binding up of wounds we proclaim the need of.. .I don't really know where I am as a Christian and a cleric. Somehow, I, personally, must keep the old and the new together, knowing that the legalisms that become an end in themselves aren't needed; but the Euchar­ist is essential, if Catholicism is to breathe alive with grace. 
There are at least three billion people in the world who are ignorant of, or indifferent to, the Catholic Eucharist. None of them seems to bother me as much as one single student who could deny the Sacra­ment in the very act of receiving it. Christ becomes so vulnerable, in the blessed bread and wine of Mass, that the vulnerability in itself becomes a tender gift. One thing I have noticed about Catholics who have had the Faith--Cathol­ics, for example, like Julia and Lord Marchmain--is that they are vulnerable, too. 
Quomodo sedet sola civitas. The vul­nerable God did not' become wounded so that the drama of salvation could be eternally damaged when a thoughtless boy mocked the words of a priest offering him the Eucharist. Quomodo sedet sola civitas. As to the chapel at Brideshead, the Lord of the Eucharist knows His way back to the home that was built for Him. Quomodo sedet sola civitas. One morning, by a strange conspiracy of events we call the grace of God. that student could find the flame burning again ,before the doors of a tabernacle he has fong left unused and empty. 
As I said bctl.m·. the Catholic faith can seem sud1 awful rubbish. It's a faith you can hu.1· for a penny at the church doo~. 
Chcafl'l'as it is. it's got more class than anything l'l'e seenlatcl~· that has shown up I<' lake' its place. 


-~ -~-~ -~ -------------~--­
Friday, March 4, 1977
the observer
8 
The St. joseph County Volunteer Blood Donor program has opened a drawing station in the Notre Dame Infirmary in an effort to avert a local blood shortage. Organized by resident hall, Notre Dame students are giving blood in a community-wide program to enroll enough volunteers to meet area blood needs of 15,000 units a year. Mary F. Letourneau, a senior from Wichita, Kansas has her pulse checked by Dorothy Heat, a medical technician from South Bend's Central Blood Bank, while waiting. their turn are, from the left, Michael Labarge, a sophomore from Clarendon Hills, Ill.; julie Marie Wehner, a sophomore from Ballwin, Mo.; David K. Palmer, a sophomore from Salinas, Kans., and Allen M. Sowle, a senior from Arlington, Texas. 
The campus chapter of Alpha Phi Omega is heading up the student blood drive, and volunteers staffing the Infirmary station are from the St. joseph County Medical Auxiliary. 
'Human hedgehog'recovers 
HOVEN. Denmark [AP] -A 63­year-old pensioner known as the "human hedgehog" may be near­ing the end of a six-year saga of pain during which doctors say they have removed 32,131 barberry thorns from his body. His wife says that doesn't include countless inch-long barbs they have pulled out themselves, and there are many more still to be pulled out. 
It began April 20, 1971, when Tjens Kjaer Jensen fell into a heap of thorny branches from a barberry hedge, common in Europe and the United States, that he had been trimming around his home in this west Jutland village. 
He tried to get up but kept falling back onto the needle-sharp thorns until he fainted from the pain. 
Later this month Jensen will make his 248th visit to the county hospital at Tarm for removal of thorns which have continued to emerge from his body in a quantity that has ensured him a niche in Danish medical history. 
When last at the hospital ten weeks ago the qoctors pulled 261 thorns from his arms and legs. 
"That brought the count to 32,131 thorns removed since Jen­sen was first hospitalized here in 1971," said chief surgeon Erik Galatius-Jensen in a telephone interview. 
He admitted that he and his 
colleagues were at a loss to explain 
Berkeley offers film workshop· 
A 'summer workshop in 16mm 
filmmaking is being offered by the 
Berkeley Film Institute, Berkeley, 
California. This intensive full-time 
workshop will meet eight hours 
each day~ six days each week for 
five weeks from June 20 through 
July 23, 1977. 
Practical instruction will be given 
in all aspects of the filmmaker's 
craft, including production, cine­
matography, sound, lighting, edit­
ing, and phototechnology. 
The course is highly structured, 
with students completing a pro­
gressive series of film projects, 
including a sync-sound dramatic 
short and a public service televion 
advertisement for a non-profit or­
ganization. No prior knowledge of 
film or photography is needed, and 
there are no age or background 
requirements. All equipment and 
materials are provided. · 
For further information, write 
Berkeley Film Institute, 2741 8th 
Street, Berkeley, California 94701, 
or call (415) 843-9271. 
how one man could get so many thorns into his body and how after six years they could still keep emerging. 
''It is increasingly becoming a medical mystery," Galatius-Jensen said. 
Jensen, living on a disablement pension for ~ previous aliment, finds the affair more painful than mysterious. 
"Only this morning my husband was again troubled by thorns wo::king their way out, through the skin of his legs," his wife Marie said in a telephone conversation yesterday. 
"But it is nothing now compared with the hell we have been going through for years," she said. "The hospital's count does not include the countless thorns we pulled out 
Art Gallery overlooked by local, ND residents 
South Bend and Notre Dame residents do not take the opportun­ity to visit the Notre Dame Art Gallery, said Peter Winkler, direc­tor of public programming. 
"For the past four years, annual gallery attendance has remained right around 40,000" stated Winkler, a 1975 Notre Dame grad­uate seeing a master's degree in science and administration here. According to Winkler, a substantial part of that figure can be attributed to students who stop in before or between classes. "A single stu­dent might drop by fifty times in a semester,'' 
The gallery, off the main en­trance to O'Shaughnessy Hall, has initiated several improvements re­cently. Winkler pointed out that the collection has grown to 6,000 objects in ten years. Also, since the arrival of the new curator, Steven Spiro, the emphasis is acquiring pieces for the collection has shifted more toward quality of the objects. 
In addition, said Winkler, the gallery has recently received a $2 million grant to add new facilities 
from patron Fred. B. Snite.  The  
annex  to  the  main  gallery  will  
adjoin  the  mestrovic  studio  and  

extend toward the stadium. With three floors and ·a basement, the new facility will quadruple the capacity of the present gallery. The ground-br~aking is tentatively scheduled to begin this spring, indicated Winkler. 
As quality improves and facilities expand at the gallery, Winkler noted he feels a growin.~t sense of ourselves." 
Jensen was hospitalized for six months after he fell into the branches, with thorns lodgedl in every part of his body except his face, which he had managed to protect. After first overcoming infections, the doctors began re­moving the thorns, plucking out 6,000. 
For several years after that 
J en sen regularly returned to the ~~at1e-lyla!ft!e!r!s!u!r!g!ery~w!'!tt!h!a!r!e!li~a!b!il!itv!!!v!a!n!ia~!_!o_!p!e!rf!o!r!m!a!t!m!!!a!ny!!c!hu!r!c!h!eisl.
hospital to have more thorns cut 
out. Often the operation called for several hours of surgery under anesthesia. 
"Between operations he lived in terrible pain, but now he is able to walk and we hope that the schedu­led hospital trip later this month may be the last," Mrs. Jensen said. 
obligation to the public. "As a public institution, we have respon­sibility to go to the public; they shouldn't have to come to us," he said. 
One public program, a Thursday evening lecture series, has been conducted since last fall. The program has not drawn as many people as expected. 
'"When students sit through three or four hours of lectures in a day they don't want to attend another one in , their free time," explained Winkler. "We don't get adequate publicity off-campus to draw South Bend residents," he also noted. 
. Winkler cited a need for a variety of programs to interest those who might not attend lecutes. He is presently organizing a membership program which will provide lec­tures, movies, concerts and trips to other art museums for the mem­bers. A membership will cost about $15 per year ($7.50 for students) but will be used exclu­sively for activities for members. "This is not a fund raising drive," he emphasized. 
Winkler also stated he is anxious to know what type of programs students would like to see imple­mented at the gallery . He is preparing a survey for distribution on campus and would like to create a student committee for more active participation in gallery pro­grams. Winkler encourages any student with a suggestion to visit him at the gallery. '~The art gallery cloes not have to be boring; it can ~e a fun place, " he said. 
Computer program aids in recovery predictions 
NEW YORK [AP] -An, experi­
mental program capable of predict­
ing the recovery pattern of patients 
undergoing open heart surgery has 
been developed by a team of 
computer scientists and physicians. 
Without such a computerized 
program, physicians cannot classi­
fy the patient's type of recovery 
before surgery, and may require up 
to three days after surgery to 
correctly classify all the highest­
risk patients, according to the head 
of the research team. 
Physicians at the State Univer­
sity of New York in Buffalo and 
Buffalo General Hospital, and com­
puter scientists at IBM's Thomas J. 
Watson Research Center, in York­
town Heights, N.Y. participated in 
the study. 
"In the critical hours. following open-heart surgery," IBM said yesterday, "one of the most impor­tant questions doctors must face is whether the patient's recovery is likely to be easy or difficult. Survival often depends on an early and reliable answer to this question." 
The recovery prediction program is based .on a set of eleven measurements taken from patients with a catheter or tube inserted into the heart through a vein. The measurements concern heart func· tion, the condition of blood vessels, body chemistry and lung function. 
Researchers first analyzed all the data taken from 32 patients during their recovery periods along with the physicians' evaluations of the patients' recovery patterns. Then the computer program was tested with only one or two days of data from 54 other patients. 
The program is still experimental and has not yet gone into actual hospital use. 
"It was found that the computer program could predict the recovery bpattedrns ofd all the test .patients
11
ase on ata co ected tmmedi­
. t fat t~aUY's Just pas OPEN FRI. &SAT. TILL MIDNIGHT 
6-Packs 
$1.1·9 
Old Chicago 
Rum Early 
$4'&. Times
Scotch 
99
$5~. $9 % Gal. Vodka Canadian $398,. Mist 
Gin 
$399­
Qt. 

Carton 
$385
Cigarettes CS~eS"sof Beer $385 
lliiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiil 
_____ .......... -.. ~···-· ..................... ___ ----·-·------.............. -... -·p"· ' 
of 72 percent," IBM said. "H the 
computer was allowed to have all 
the data collected for two days 
following the operation, the relia­
bility rose to 88 percent." 
The computer program also 
proved to be 65 percent reliable in 
predicting the likely recovery pat­
terns of the highest-risk patients 
with~ only the· data collect~d just 
befol"e an operation. Therefore, if a 
patient seemed likely to have a very 
difficult, or even fatal, outcome, a 
decision could be made not to do 
the operation, or to provide es_pe­
cially close monitoring, the re­
search team said. 
"With this new computer pro­
gram, it appears as if we may be 
able to predict before surgery the 
likelihood of a patient following one 
of the types or recovery, and 

certainly very, very early after the 
operation." said Dr. John H. 
Siegel, chief of surgery at Buffalo 
General Hospital. 
ND Chapel Choir plans first tour 
The Notre Dame Chapel Choir will take its first tour over spring break, announced Rick Klee, the choir's publicity director. The group will travel through eastern United States to sing selections from David Clark Isele's Notre Dame Mass at Vespers and masses in various states. 
The tour will begin on Friday March 11 at St. Peter in Chains Cathedral in Cincinnati. From Ohio the choir will travel to Maryland, Virginia and Washing­ton, D.C., where the group will sing at the National Shrine of the Immaculate Conception. 
On Wednesday, March 16 the choir will sing vespers at the Cathedral of St. Patrick in New York City. From March 17-20 the choir will travel through Pennsyl­
~OCI(s, 
LIQUOR 'VoRt.O 
.........,.. 
277..11 12 pack· Busch 
·$3.08 
8 pack Stroh's 
$2.07 
-----------------------~----,.r---------~----------------------------------------------------------------------· 
Placement Bureau 
JOB INTERVIEWS ARE OPEN TO SENIORS AND GRADUATE STUDENTS IN THE MAY AND AUGUST CLASSES .... ANY WHO INTEND TO HAVE INTERVIEWS MUST HAVE A COMPLETED PROFILE (REGISTRATION) FORM ON FILE AT THE PLACEMENT BUREAU .... REGISTRATION, INTERVIEW SIGN-UP SHEETS AND EMPLOYER LITERA­TURE ARE IN ROOM 213, AD BUILDING ....CONSULT THE PLACEMENT MANUAL FOR ADDITIONAL INFORMATION REGARDING INTERVIEW AND PLACEMENT SERVICES AND PROCEDURES. 
YOU MUST SIGN FOR YOUR INTERVIEWS PERSONALLY. 
THE SIGN-UP PERIOD IS FROM 8:00 AM TO 5:00 PM, 
MONDAY THROUGH THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 28-MARCH 3. 
INTERVIEWS SCHEDULED FOR WEEK OF MARCH 7. 
Mar7 Harris Trust and Savings bank--B in AL and Mon. BA-strong business oriented with background in Econ, Fin, Gen Bus or Acct. Johnson & Johnson--Cancelled. Ully Industrial Coatings, loe--B in ChE and Chern. 
Surface Combustion--S in ME, EE, .ChE, Met: Texas Gas Transmission _Corporation--S in Acct. Natural Gas Transmission Company. 
Mar718 Lady Arrow--B in ALand BA. Mon/Tues 
MarS American Grad. School of International Manage­
Tues ment--S in all disciplines. 
Faetory Mutual Engineering Association--S in ME, CE,AE. 
Haskins & SeUs--B in Acct. MBA with Acct bkgrd or conctrn. 
IDs Marketing Corporation--S in ALand J!.A. 
SS Kresge Company--B in AL or BA with genuine desire for Retail Mgt career. Motorola lne.--BMD in EE. BM in ME 
. ) 
Leo Burnett USA--Bin ALand BA. MBA,_ 9 Continental Oil Company(Rescheduled from 2124)-­Wed. 
B in ChE and Chern. 
General Telephone Company of Indiana--All BBA for Sales-Mkt. B in EE for various Engr positions. Locations: Indiana. Per. Res. Visa req. 
SquareD Company--Bin MEIO, EE, ME. Electrical
I 
Distributor-Switch and Fuse Boxes. Positions: Time 
Study, Design, Mfg. Locations: Peru, Ind. Citizen­
I 
\ 
ship not required. Parker-ll8nnlfin Company--B in ME, EE, MEio. Leader in fluid power, industrial components. 
'Positions: Design, Mfg. and Process Engr., Tech 
Sales. Locations: 70 plants nationwide--interviewing primarily for Midwest. Citizenship required. State Mutual of Am rlca--B in ALand BA. All lines 
of Insurance. Positions: Training Program, Insur­ance. Positions: Training Program, Insurance Brokers. Locations: Nationwide. Citizenship requir­ed. 
Watcon, lnc.--B in BA and EG. Industrial Chemical Water Conditioning. Positions: District Field Engr­Sales & Service. Locations: Gre,ater Midwest. Citizenship required. \... 
Mar9/10 Firestone Tire & Rubber Company--Bin ChE, CE, Wed/Thurs EE, Engr Mech, Engr Sci, MEIO, Me, Chern, Math, Acct. 
MarlO Federal ffighway Administration (Rescheduled from Thurs 1127)--BM in CE. 
General Motors Corporation--S in ME, EE, MEIO, ChE. 
MUes Laboratorles--BM in Chern, Comp Sci. 
Wilson & Co., loe--B in Acct, Fin, Mgt, Mkt, Bio, Chern, Microbio. ) 
Mar 10/11 Coopers & Lybrand--B in Acct. MBA with Acct Thurs/Fri bkgrd or conctrn. 
Marll Scott Paper Company--B in AL and BA for Sales Fri Rep--Midwest. 
Mar23/24 Lincoln National Life--Changed to April20 and 21. 
Wed/Thurs 
t 
~ 
Mar24 Oark Equipment Company --B in Acct. MBA with Thurs Acct bkgrd or conctrn. 
Youngstown Sheet and Tube Company--B in Acct, Fin. MBA with Acct or Fin bkgrd or conctrn. BM in EE, ME. ChE, Engr Sci, Met. 
Mar24/25 Magnavox Co. Government & Industrial Elee. 
Thurs/Fri Div.--8 in EE. 
Owens-Coming Fiberglas--8 in 8A and EG. 
Mar25 ITT Telecommunleations--8M in EE, Comp Sci.· 
Fri South Bend Toy Manufacturing Co.-.-B in ME and 
MEIO. -·­
Friday, March 4, 1977 
9
the observer 
Hostages released 
Nationalists surrender 
League to Crush the Y and P System.'-' 
The letters were said to stand for Yalta and Potsdam, sites of major Allied conferences in the closing days of World War ll where decisions included Russia's entry into the conflict against Japan and demands for Japan's unconditional surrender. 
Police said they had never heard of such a group, but they recalled that slogans denouncing the ''Yalta and Potsdam system" were used among right-wing students after World War II, 
• 
PINBALL 

• 
FOOSBALL 


COLLEGE DAY 
SUNDAY 
Show college 10 & get $1.00 off 16" Family size Pizza 
S.U. Social Commission presents the: 
HEAVEN 
and 
HELL 
DANCE 
LaFortune Ballroom With Big Funky Deal & Disco in the Nazz 
Saturday March 5th Spm-lam 
' Admission $1.00 

Friday, March 4, 1977
10 the observer 
Study shows faults of proposed IRS computer 
WASHINGTON (AP) -A massive computer system proposed by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) ~uld offer "irresistible" opportun­;ties for illegal government intrus­ions on Americans' privacy, a .:ongressional study says. 
The computer system, which the ~port says could cost $1 billion, would make Americans' income tax ;-oeturns immediately available on :.housands of terminals in IRS 
Qffices. The draft report by Congress' Office of Technology Assessment 
held to answer questions about the security and privacy implications of the proposed computer, known as · the Tax Administration System ­
TAS. 
The unpublished draft report has 
been circulated to House Ways 
and Means subcommittee mem­
hers. 
Currently, only about ten percent 
of each year's 132 million tax 
returns are instantly available on 
IRS computers in a limited number 
of IRS offices. The rest are held on 
magnetic tape that take days to 
_sugge~t~-~at hearings nee~.!o b~~tain.~-~--_ ~ 
La Raza council launches fund raising campa-ign 
The Mid-West Council of La Raza at Notre Dame is launching a ­
fund raising campaign known as the "Friends of the Mid-West Council,'' announced Ricardo Parra, executive director. The goal of the fund is to develop a base of 2000 concerned and contributing friends for the Mid-West Council. 
The purpose of the Mid-West Council, according to Parra, is to focus attention on the presence and plight of La Raza, a Spanish-speak­ing social action organization based at ND, improve the quality of life and the furtherance of justice. 
This is done explained Parra, through a communication center, a barrio communication network and a program of selected social justice issues such as Fram Labor, Immi­gration, La Raza and the Church, Mujeres (Raza Women), Employ­ment, Education, and Civil-and Human Rights. 
"Running a Mid-West Commu­ication Center ahd related social action projects on social justice issues cost money," Parra stated. ''Sometimes we are forced to operate on a volunteer basis. Yet, we still need support for such items as telephone, postage, paper, ink, envelopes and printing," he ex­plained. 
"There are good people out 
there. We're confident we can reach a goal of2,000 concerned and 
. contributing friends," said Parra. Contributions are tax deductible. Friends of the Mid-West Council interested in aiding this drive may direct their contributions to Mid­West Council of La Raza, P.O. Box 606, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
Senate legislation gives Carterrequested--autfiority 
,­WASHINGTON (AP) -The Sen­ate passed legislation yesterday that is designed to give President Carter the authority he requested to reorganize the government's executive agencies. The 92-0 Senate vote sends the measure to the House. Under the measure, when Carter submits reorganization plans to Congress, the plans take effect automatically unless disapproved by either the Senate or the House within 60 days. The bill would permit the Presi­dent to submit plans that abolish, transfer and consolidate agencies. However, the President could not create or abolish Cabinet-level departments or independent reg­ulatory agencies. • One of Carter's lnajor campaign commitments was to overhaul the 
federal bureaucracy in an effort to make it more efficient and respon­sive. 
However, administration spokes­
men have not contended that 
Carter's reorganization plans will 
necessarily save any money or 
reduce the federal civilian payroll. 
The reorganization authority would be granted Carter under the Senate bill for three years from the date of enactment. He had asked for four years. 
Refugees claim Amin purge 
(continued from page 1) statement that violations of human rights in Uganda "have disgusted the entire civilized world." He .later lifted the bar. At the same time he blocked any American departures from the country, Amin scheduled a meeting with all American residents. The Dally Nation said Jtis meeting was to be the occasion for the expulsion which would lead to the hijacking. Amin first postponed the meet­ing and then called it off completely when he lifted the travel ban. The United States says there are some 240 Americans living in Uganda, but Amin puts the figure at 100. 
• beers -30¢ : pizza -$1.50 1~.·:: 
: . fri~ay night . t~~ : gtn & tontc post hockey ~~ eseven & sevens game i-~· :screwdrivers 50¢ live music too! 
"TAS will make large quantities of personal information about peo­ple available in the time it takes to snap two fingers," the report said. 
''It may offer resources for surveillance, through identification and location of people, that could prove irresistible, or at least highly 
. tempting, to future congresses, presidents and federal agencies," it added. "Although laws may make it illegal to disseminate IRS informa­tion for illegal or unconstitutional surveillance purposes, these laws may not be enough." The IRS will ask for funds to start on the system for the next fiscal year, according to Patrick Ruttle, assistant IRS commissioner for tax 
~~~~ 
V~j~zz~
BAND 
TONIGHT! 7:30 
MORRIS CIVIC Call284-9711 after 4-232-6954 
administration. 
Ruttle said in an interview that TAS will mean better, faster service for taxpayers and "a more efficient tax system." He added that the new system would be more secure than the current one. 
''This is actually going to reduce the danger of disclosure," he said. "This is a second generation system. It will further tighten up controls on our own employes and institute new system checks." 
Under TAS, ten regional com­puter centers would contain all the tax returns for the past three to five years for all the taxpayers in each region. All the returns for that region would be available instantly 
for anyone now is retained for at IRS throughout each region on immediate computer recall. 
.....-..-.-..·····-···.....•.......... 
: TIMM PARTY STORE.·:·
. ­
-~· 
.OPEN: MON -SAT 9 am -II pm: : SUNDAY I2 noon-II pm ·•
·•
•
• 
COLD BEER, PACKAGE LIQUOR,: ••• WINE, GOURMET FOODS : 

• 
3II4 S. II ST. NILES, MICIDGAN: 


: 1 Block Nor1h of state line on U.S. 31 : 
··············~·~·············· 
Nursing Students THE PROFESSION YOU CHOOSE WILL EMBODY OUR NAME. 
It's MERCY...The concerned "I care" feeling that gives sharpness to your skills and tenderness to your touch ... the compassionate "I'll try" motivation that lies behind everything you do as a professional R.N. It's our name and our pride. 
With mercy your skills are complete. With Mercy Hos­pital your career can be just starting. Our ultra-modern facilities, progreSIIive nursing practices, and continuing inservice programs can l~ad you to the utmost effectiveness as a professional, caring R.N. 
From our Friesen Hospital design with Nurservers and Nursing Alcoves in every room to our emphasis on the individual needs of each patient, we embody the quali1 ;~s that make our name what it is. Now you can too! 
For more information on opportunities at Mercy 
Hospital, just fill out and return the coupon below. 
---------------------~ 
Kathleen Fosbury I Employment Manager I I
Mercy Hospital 
I
& Medical Center 
Stevenson Expressway at King Drive 

000 0 Chicago, Illinois 60616 . (312) 567-2136 
Name______-r------------------­
City_________ 
State~------------ZiP------~---------­
An Equal Opportunity Employer 
terminals with screens similar to television screens. 
Returns from outside a region would be available through an IRS national commuter center within several days. 
More than ~8,000 IRS employees would have access to the computer through more than 9,000 terminals scattered across the country. 
TAS would also link all tax forms relating to one individual -the form 1040 or 1094A, W-2 forms from employers, interest earnings re­ports from banks and the like. 
The present computer system does not have that capacity. Fur­thermore, only one year's return 
"beat the  1" weekend!!!!  
:  celebrate a t the senior bar  :  
·:friday happy hour 3-6 1  - 1  •  - ~  i  saturday 3-6  :  

··························~······························ 
:• ! 
77 pays til graduation e, victory special-beers -30¢: 
satuiday_ night 9-1 : 
e o~er after hoc~ey game!• rnta dnnks: fnsco sou_r : lemonade 50¢ beers 35¢: 
: we will be open after all the games this weekend so stop in on your way back • 
: from the ACC at the senior bar the only place to be. : 
··,~~~~.~·~.~·~.~.~~-~·············· ..········~~.•,~...~...!!.~.'-.~·!~'-·'-·'·~!·'-~·!,!:!•·'
} 
Alumni Family Hall residents eligible for summer seminar 
Graduates of Notre Dame plan­ning to spend part of their summer vacation in the Alumni Family Hall on the' campus will have an oportunity this year to enroll in a special five-day seminar, "Chris­tian Optimism and the Human Prospect." 
Sponsored jointly by the Alumni Association and the Center for Continuing Education, the series of conferences from July 24 to 28 will be staffed by members of the faculty and will be open i.o spouses as well as graduates. 
Directing the discussion sessions will be Msgr. John Egan, special assistant to University President Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, Phil­
osophy Professor Ralph Mcinerny, and Historian Bernard Norling. Participants in the Sunday evening through Thursday noon 
conference will reside in Lewis Hall 
I NOTICES 
I 
• YOUR ATTENDANCE REQUEST­ED! THE EVANSTON CONCERT BALLET. SUNDAY, MARCH 6, 8 p.m. O'LAUGH LIN AUDITORIUM. ND·SMC STUDENTS $2.00.1 

I Whv-;;$10.oo-t-;;-;_-;~o-;;!i;ed 
I 
astroligical birth charts from im­personal computers? Detailed typed profiles-$5.00. Call Pat 7339. 
I --MoRiiSsev"lo"A"N"Fu"No-
I 
$10-150. 1 day wait. 1 percent interest. Due in 30 ?ays. ~Fortur:~e 
Basement. M-F. 11.15-12.15. 
I Ne-;d-;;p-;;;;?-E;;"~.rt"a-;l~~p;.o­
I 
fessional Typing Service. $.85 a page. 232-0898,
1wiiite:;;;hf-;;;;-;;;~~;:-s-;;-a~eti-;;;e. 
~~~~_!_:.!._~-------­
I USED BOOKS. BOOK BARN. 1 
I 
~i~~o~~o~~~e~~~:_!~~~O. I Accurate, fast typing. Mrs. Donoho. 
~~~~-~~~_:_~a_:_~~-8 _P.m_. 
I 
I FOR RENT 
I 
I Two bedroom house to rent. Sum­mer and-or school year. 1012 Eddy Street. S120 mo, plus utilities. Call Oddies Harris at 232-8563.
I 4b".;d;;0-;;:--;i;;;;-;.;.;;;;~;.;ng 
I 
room, kitchen. Utilities paid. $100 per month. Call Oscar 233-1850. 
I :n;;;;-t,-;d~;;-m-h~;-f;,_-;:;nt 
.unfurnished. Fenced yard. Near 
I 
Memorial Hospital. Reasonable for 
marr,led student. Qu1"et ne1"ghbor­
I 
~~_:_~~~~.2._2~-----­
1 
I 
One four and one six bedroom house with fireplace for rent starting September 1977. Furnished, Also, super-low rates on summer rooms or houses. Call 277-3604. 1--------------­
Renting rooms this summer to students. Walko campus: 2 house,I one female, the other male. $55. Call 233-2613 or 259-7488 after 5. 1-----------­I 
Furnished 5 bedroom house, walk to campus, renting to students this fall. Call 259-7488 after 5. 
1For rent next school year-9 month I 
lease. Two furnished houses 4 bedroom and 5 bedroom, Near NO­Off-street parking. Call 234-2626. 1--------------­
I LOST& FOUND 
I 
I SR-50 calculator lost Wednesday in the Engineering Building. 1 need it desperately to pass this term. 
Reward. Call Tim 287-3689.
I Fo;nd--No-c~~~i;g-:-c.ill '78 _ 
1-
ma_re_.l_de_nt_ify_4_-49_49_.__ 
1 
Lost at Campus View Apts: fluffy brown and white dog, answers to " Jamaica". Call Guts 277-4365. 
1Lost: 1 pairblac~ki;J;;;;;;; with red striP,es. O'Laughlin small theatre. Call John 6186.I -----­I 
1 
Lost: silver medal;;d"ct;-;;J;-;;th Leo zodiac sign between ACC and Grace Mol'lday. Please return if found. Holds great sentimental : 
I ~~':.:_~~~~~---­
Lost: At Library (bar) sat. nite. 
1 
ladies short camel coat. hooded­
• wrap aroung. Whoever took mine, 1 4 4723 
I 
I have yours. Mary " · I I have someone•s cam~ I colored coat from last Sat. at the Library. Call 8091. Also... somebody has my camel colored coat from last Sat. at the Library. If that's you please call
I ~~:______________ 
I 
Lost: Lady's gold watch. Could be anywhere. Reward. Call 3096. 
I 
I 
Lost: At ND-LaSalle game, beige sweater-coat with brown and gray stripe around mid-section. Please return. Call 288-7587. 
1Lost: SR-50A calculator in Engineer­ing Auditorium. Reward. Call Frank 
\;486 _____ _______ 
and will have their meals in one of Conference registration fees, in-the campus dining rooms. Super-eluding housing, meals and all vised youth activities will be pro-instructional material, are $195 per vided for children of participants individual, $250 for graduate and and campus recreational facilites spouse, and $55 for those 18 and will be available for use during under. Additional information may leisure hours. be obtained by contacting the 
Two brief but important books conference coordinators, Dr. John will form the theme for the con-Lyon, chariman of the General ference and will be sent in advance Program, or Dr. James Powell, 
' to all registrants. They are assistant director of the Center for Hesburgh's "The Humane Impera-Continuing Edu~~i~n. tive: A Challenge for the Year The Alumni Family Hall will be 2000" and "An Inquiry into the · h h
in operatwn from June 12 t rougHuman Prospect" by Robert Heil-July 30 this year. This programbroner, professur of economics at provides housing with kitchen pri­the New School for Social Research fviliges for amilies of former stu-Questions to be asked will be dents wishing to spend one or morewhether mankind has the capacity days on the campus during ato deal with such crucial problems relaxing period of time.
· of the coming decades as overpop­ulation, nuclear proliferation, and Reservatio~s for this pro~ram may the impact of an expanding indus-be made With the Alumm Office. 
trialism on the environment.. llllwlllFilalnlnJeilriiinllilllw~iillllimDelieliltnPiiaiinfiibioiir~n~IjiirjSiaituJridiafiliiinfiDiiejtr)oiiitn.•n•r.ilf1i~
-
~------------------------­
Lost: Green turquoise liquid silver necklace. If found, please call 4-5337. 
~;~d:-B-;;-~;;-~it~;ate;-at 
LaSalle B-ball game. Call 1332 . 
Lost: one NO woman's ring '77. Call Mary at 8125 ______·_________ 
WANTED 
Ride to canton, OHIO March 4, 5 (or Cleveland, Akron, Youngstown a­
~~~~~~_:~~0~~~~~~­
I'll trade all the cheese in the world 
~o;c:e:i~k:~:~ l~:?a~~~e~i!f0 ~~~~ 
2771. 
Need ride to anywhere in Wash. 
D.C. area for break. Will share driving and expenses. Call 8320. 
Female roommate $50 plus utilities. Pam-6261, .after 5. 288_ _
7468 
-----~--------­
~e9~~4~~~kets for USF. Call -'Tom 
Two people need ride to Boston over break. Share expenses, Call Steve 
~~_:_____________ 
Desperately need 1 or 2 tix for both san Fran. and Wisconsin series 
~~~~~~-=~~.!~~~_::__ 
1 h r k ts f w · ave IC e or ISCOnsin hockey 
game Friday & Saturday. Will
barter-deal for 2 San Francisco _tic_ke_ts._2_34_-56_86_.------­
Need 3 tix for San Fran. Call Steve 8332. 
wanted-ride back from Philadelphia 'after break. Will share driving and $$. Call1279. 
Desperately need a ride to the Connecticut area for break. Call Tim at 1025. 
u~t;f;;;:-.;;;;~;.;-phi~~;;-& tripod. Call Jim 288_
2640. 
Need riders to and from Northwes­tern this weekend, Marcn _ Call
4
Ch · M p t 6789 
ns or ary a · 
Ne;d-;~;J-;:jd;;-t6"dc;~-;t-;;t;-;-Y. 
area. Share usual. Coleen a591 ) 
Bridget (7628), Steve (3213). ' 
Ride needed to Fort Lauderdale for break. Monica 7870. 
2 girls need ride to Baton Rouge, La. for spring break. Share expenses & driving. Call Patty or Anne 4-5427_. 
FOURGIRLs-NEED-~DESTO 
DALLAS (OR AREAl FOR BREAK, WILL SPLIT UP, SHARE EX· PENSES. PLEASE CALL 4_
4160, 4-5140, 277-4588. 
Ga tickets for Wisconsin series Mar. 4 & 5. Will pay ahything! Call John 289-2542. 
Help! Need ride to northern New Hersey (New York. City area) for break. Call Mark 1200. 
Need ride to Fort Lauderdale March 
~~~~~:._?~1~---­
HECP us get to the beach!! 2 girls need a ride to Ft. Lauderdale for 
·break. Call 7401 or 3725. 
Eart~~ke;;;jlhilifl~~t~;; 4 
San· Francisco tickets! Call Fred at 287-2771. 
Two girls need ride to Ft. Lauder­dale for spring break. Call 4-4291 or 
~~~:_____________ 
Wanted: 2 housemates for NO apt. 1 immediately, the other starting March 11. Call Dave or Steff, 
288-4113. 
Wanted: Ride to and from Dallas for spring break. Split driving and expenses. Call Ben 288-7523,. 
Need 2 tickets for San Francisco 
~~=.:_.:_a~~2~_:________ 
Classzijize• d Ads 
Need ride to D.C. for break. Call Chris 8941. 
~:£0f~z~~Y:~r~ ~ayv:i::e:,.~n:i~:~ 
matches! Can leave Friday after­noon, March 11. cail Maureen 6825 or 1715. 
M";.;-tme in it:-Lo.;ls?"N;;d ride back to ND after break. Call 
~~~~~~~~~~-----­
Ride wanted to Minneapolis-St. Paul on March 11. Call Patty 4-5438, 
Need ride to LaCrosse, Wise. area 
~;es:;:~~~r~:ckk ~ns~~~ft~~i.b~~!~: 
Call Mary 4-4606. 
Ne-;d,.(d;t;;-St.L.~i;-;r~;dJ~2. 
Mike 3452. 
2 people desperately need rides to P_h i1ade.lphia for spring break. Call 
4 4291 
Need ride to Ft. Lauderdale. Share driving and expenSe$. Call Pat 1514 today!! 
Ne;drkteto-K-:-c-:-;-i<s-:-.;e-;S~re 
expenses. Bill 6768. 
Desperately need San Francisco 
~~!.:_.:_a~~~~~:_______ 
Wanted: Ride to Louisville Friday March 11th. Call Sue 7938 or 
.:_o~e_:_~~2.:_________ 
Urgent: 2 girls need ride to Ft. Lauderdale. Call 4-4168. 
Need ride to Des Moines area ­
March 11, Will share driving, gas. Linda 4-4289. 
FOR SALE 
TELEPHOTO LENS: 200mm !3,.S Soligor T-4 with mount for Nikon, Nikkormat. ln'cludes sun shade & Tiffen UV filter. $100. Can be adapted to c.anon, Minolta, Pentax, Olympus, etc. with a T-4 mount. Price without Nikon mount: $90. Call 1845. Ask for Tony, 
Stereo tape recorder: Revox Mark 
IV: $275.00. AR Turntable with Shure V15: $95,00. Dynaco FM-3: $75.00. Call 288-1681. 
For Sale: C. B. HYgain-high range I. antenna specialist's trunk mount antenna. $110. Kel(in 1958. 
Mimeo machine -fully automatic . never used -works perfectly -to highest bidder. Call 3342, 
~emeTb~r t7e '77 Bouts with a '77 G~~~~t 82~~ ~r ;2~~ir~,:~·22ail;b~~ 
at Bouts, 
1973 Ja_velin AMX. Good condition, 31,000. Call Chris, 9-5, at 259-1941. Ext. 152. 
PERSONALS 
Lyons Rookies -Things are running smoother all the time. Let's keep it that way on Sunday in the Playoffs. Have a good weekend but get psyched to run and gun. Bigger and 
~~~s2:____________ 
AI Wicke!, No we haven't forgotten you. But, the question is, have you us?? G & C 
Th;~~tb;g-;nt;~~;hfy~­
The drinks we-re 'much too strong, You feigned a tone of sobriety, I tried to play alono,. Our dancing was outlandish, The time was truly swell, 
:~J ~~h~~e~s~'r tre11.1ast minute, 
Now that you are 22, And age on you will .tell, I give to you my loving wish, 
Buns, .Go ·to hell. Immensely, 
The J3itch ---.,------------­Like to water ski? Give two guys a ride to Lauderdale and I'll take you 
~!.:_-=-~~~~':._1~3~----­
Friday, March 4, 1977 
the observer 1 1 
Women's b-ball 
Participating in the Indiana Nor­thern District Small College Tour­nament held at Valparaiso Univer­sity, the Notre Dame woman's basketball team was defeated by 
I.U.P.U. -Fort Wayne, 47-45. Although the cagers later went on to edge Grace College, 61-57, they finished second in the round robin competition of the three-team pool and were eliminated from further tournament activity. Jane Politski led the Notre Dame scoring attack in both games with totals of 15 and 22 points. Notre Dame's final record stands at a very respectable 
9-6.lnterhall b-ball 
I I t h 11 b k tb 11 1 1 t
n n er a as e a Pay as 
· ht F1 III p b II
mg • anner • ang orn ,
F1"sher I and Zahm I n t d
wo o a vance to the Divisional finals of the playoffs. 
Janet-Better start the countdown, 4 days to total destruction! 
~i~:tf;ti~h~~~~u~~i~~ ~~~~ ~~~~~?~ 
G 
Chris C., You expected us to believe that you went to Vegetable Buddies for your Jazz Class!! We know all 
about your tall, mysterious man who loves your sexy lips. Go ahead and have "fun." We won't tell. 
Cathy W ., Do you want a ride home Friday at 5:00? Call me. Gwen 
~i :o~:~~~N~~~ ~::H:~;REE 
DAME. PHONE 8870 FRIDAY & 
~2~~~~~~~_:_______ 
Digger's Crew, You know you can do it. Go out a winner. We'll all be cheering for you! The Best Student Body in the World 
Need fast, accurate typist to type 73 business form letters a couple of paragraphs long for $25. Call bob 8922, 
Fe-;;li,:;"g-;;;;~d?No-SMC-Hot­
line 4-4311 open nights. 
Book of Revelations is an esoterk 
~~~~~~ycr~~~gii~~ tr~~~~e so~rifu~f 
interested call Michael Cecil 233 7191 after 8 p.m. 
To-m~b~~~;dglr~Vv;;.;;-wn 
and learned a lot in six months. "Oh, I'm looking for my missing piecP.." Thanks for fitting. I miss you already too. I love you, Never 
bummed again. 
DEAR DIGGER, IT WOULD BE NICE TO WIN ONE FOR DICE. wE'RE READY IF YOU ARE. THE SORIN NEWS 
To Brian "the swimmer who won't take a dive" Temme, Good luck with that straight, classic. Love, an "old" drinking buddy. 
Dey once was a sensitive button Who wept from remarks dat was 
cuttin Be careful, Doher If Ah had a mole hair Ah sho wouldn't talk about nuttin! 
P.S. Ain't that a Flahrida accent? 
Katie Kerwin, Patrick Cole and Barbara Breitenstein·: Thankx for all the help on Political Staff II. Without it student politcics would be even 
more hell than it already is. Thanks again for putting up with me. G. B. Bangs 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~:_:! 
Jane P., Happy 19th. Hope you get a pair of saddle shoes with you-know­who in them. Love, Jill 
SWAT SQUAD: I know you can do it! Do it Saturday! 
Tim Oteo, Han sido los seis meses mas felices de mi vida. Te quiero, Julia 
Somewhere, somehow, in the very near future -We'll all beat Joey Dwyer. 
~ae~~~;;d ~:~nNissley -Are-1you out 
Cecilia, you're breaking my heart-­not really, but 1 hope to see a 
~~~~~~_:_~~~----­
To lover-boy O'Neill-Happy Birth­day, Tom! From one of your many. Love & Kisses, CMR ------\---------­Chris: Thanks so much for all the 
~e~-~~___:~=-~~t~~s_:__!~rb 
HAPPY HOUR Today at the Library 3-6 p.m. ~~~-re_d b__Y_th_e_M_inn_es_ot_a _cru_b. 
Jake, my darling, My pressure points are boiling. How about a tourniquet? Guess who 
Tony, I don't think NO can take another Bottini. But alas, 1 hope you 
~~~~~h~~=-~~~~w:_~e~cl_:_ G 
for the championship of Division II at 7 p.m. Sunday in the ACC Pit. Fisher I will then meet Zah111 1 at 8 
p.m. Sunday also in the ACC Pit for the championship of Divisim\ I. 
Swim team 
The Notre Dame swimming team posted a strong performance last night in the first round of the Motor City Invitational, breaking four varsity records while taking second place in the event behind Bradley. 
Freshman Mark Chiles broke three of the four Notre Dame records, registering a time of 2'04:08 in the 200 yard individual
dl 56 4 k · h 00
me ey, a . mar m t e 1 yard
b 3 
ackstroke, and a :41:3 time in the 
dl 1 J · J c 
me eyre ay. umor oe averly's
d 434 10 · · 1
earne . pomts In 1 dives1 
· h & h · 
surpassmg t e .ourt varstty rec­
d Ed F" · 1
or . 1tzs1mmons a so repeated
h" h · h" · th SO d
IS c amp1ons 1p m e -yar freestyle, with a time of 27:075. The meet will continue today and 
Billy, Make the fgrosh ~ing the fight\ 
song again. But let's hope they get it right this time. (Rich, you better I
study your lyrics!) . 
Start off a big weekend at the 
Minnesota Blue Happy Hour. 
Jc;hr,-;-;at~ct"N"k~:W-;tahrt if 1 
your general direction. BAJA 
---------------I 
CCC, Petitions are "IN". Should I 
start one to Jimmy to get you out of 
N.D. 
1 
Dear C.M. and J.H., Is the Wo-
I 
men's auxilary meeting in 315 this 
weekend again? Love, BAJA P.S. 
I 
C.M. my roommate says you can have her ice cubes now. J 
1
f:.~~~y~~~; b':~~~~~ g~~~~~~~u;·~~ I 
still love you. Love, BAJA 
DERMODv-;-;tJu-;t-;~~t-;ou I 
~i~h~l~~~~~~~~~~~~t. 
1
Charlie Lick and his beloved Golden 
Dome want you at the Minnesota 
III
Club Happy Hour. 
Joe, Happy 20th B-day! Does this 
mean you get 20 kisses? (I hope?!) 
Love, SMC 
sob"J.-;-Yo;-;:;;,-1-;-~-;;-ck-;;-~t, I 
Good luck Sunday. Mr. Green 
Mike Dangler: Holy trou! We are 
~~t~~~g J.~~'. Mary Frosty, Clair 
1 
Mike Concannon: 
1
~~~·~emao~:~il~rn~~~/~~J' ~rink all I 
day I
When people ask you, you just tell them why YOU just like being HIGH! HIGH! 
HIGH! 
I 
P.S. So do I! Have a good time this weekend. P.W. 
I 
Monday Night Observerite -I miss 
you, too. Cindy 
1 
Mary McCusker: Don't you know 
I 
you can get frostbite from prolonged 
sunbathing!! G.O. T.G. 
I 
Mary (alias Fred Ms Mailman 
I 
etc.), , . , 
Whether rain anti sleet 
Or ice and snow, 
I 
Our good wishes follow 
Wherever you go! 
I 
Happy day! Happy always! 
Love, Mare II, Clare, MB, Sue, 
Donna, Denise, and the rest of the 
I 
"rowdy section". 
I 
FT. LIQUERDALE PARTY: MON­
DAY NITE, MARCH 14th AT THE 
I 
RIPTIDE NO. 11 (2 BLOCKS FROM 
THE EXCAPE( BIG MONEY MURF 
I THE BYSTT, GG, CHAD, JAY­
BALL, AND MIKE AND ROURKE, 
THE VALENTINES. 
I 
Jc;;;~;P~Ma~h;rt;;--;;;;-;;~l9th .. Happy Birthday to the craziest Janie 
I 
yet! One thirdMJMJ 
I 
WANTED: ONE LAST FLING BE­
FORE SPRING BREAK. Four avail-
I 
able, tall, handsome witty guys to 
take out four equally beautiful 
I 
intelligent girls. Call 4-5734 or 
4-4111. Four wild womero of McC 
I 
M. B.M. We've made it for six ·-­months now. I'm looking forward to many more! Love, S 
1 
---------------I 
~~;;s ~ft~k:. ~0a!s~~ ~~~:~d~:~i:ub 
---------------I Roland, Next time I'll take No-Doz. 
K. 
I 
Ra~~-Re~~-;:;d~~;--;;;,-a-;;-ce 
from the mountains? Hope you keep 
I 
it on the Golden Gate! 324 
I ---------------· More little known facts about Sloop, ass'l director 0-C Housing: 
I 
~~e:~n~~~~~~-& spirit, pure of heart 
---------------I Call 6897 and wish Sharon Henne a 
I 
Happy Birthday today. Happy Birthday, Mike E. from the 
girls in 448 Farley. Happy Birthday Buns! Other 8 MaryAnn M.; You are the greatest. 
~~~~-~~-------­
....__________~-------------------------------, 
--j 
12 the observer Friday, March 4, 1977 
·--~~~~~~~---------­
Number-one Dons to tackle Irish 
by Fred Herbst Sports EdJtor 
In what may well prove to be the highlight of the 1976-77 basketball season for many fans, Notre Dame faces the undefeated, number-one ranked Dons of San Francisco tomorrow at the ACC. 
"I've seen some great games at the ACC, with great crowds and great emotion," Irish head coach Digger Phelps said. "Butl feel that tomorrow's game will be the greatest ever." 
Entering the contest with a perfect 29-0 record, it seems that the Dons will do their part to make the game all Phelps believes it will be. San Francisco's average mar­gin of victory is 19.3 points, and averages almost 95 points a game. They are also among the nation's leaders in field-goal (.544) and free-throw (.774) percentages. 
Coming off a 22-8 mark last season, San Francisco has used ten returning lettermen (five returning starters) to race to their perfect mark. The Dons have only two games that could be considered close ali season, they beat Portland by three last Saturday and edged Santa Clara by a point on a last-second shot by Chubby Cox. 
While boasting some out­standing individual talent, the hall­mark of the Dons has been balance. 
They have four players averaging in double figues. 
Bill Cartwright, a seven-foot sophomore center, paces San Fran­cisco in scoring with a 19.7 point per game average. He has been on a scoring rage of late, totaling 61 points in two games last weekend. Cartwright set the school record for most points in a single game earlier this season when he scored 43 against Florida State. He makes 
57.6 percent of his field goal attempts and is the team's second leading rebounder. pulling down almost nine a contest. 
Marlon Redmond follows Cartwright in scoring, with a 17.3 average. The 6-6 senior is playing forward this year after spending last season at guard. Redmond is third on the team in rebounding, snarring eight caroms a tilt. 
Joining Redmond up front will be 
JamesHardy. The 6-9 sophomore 
is nicknamed "trouble," not only 
for the fact that he is trouble to 
opponents, but also for the fact that 
he has been known to be trouble for 
his coach. Last season Hardy 
refused to play in the second half of 
the WCAC championship game, 
despite head coach Bob Gaillard's 
insistance. The Dons lost that 
game and had to settle for an 
invitation to NIT instead of a NCAA 
bid. 
Hardy scores 14.8 points a game 
and is the team's leading re­
bounder with an 11.2 mark. 
While all of the San Francisco 
team is known for their ability to 
dunk the ball, it is Hardy who is the 
master. Hardy's "squeak dunk," 
where he rubs the ball against the 
glass backboard before slamming it 
home, is his pride. 
Winford Boynes starts at one of 
the guard positions. He averages 
16.6 markers a contest and pulls down six rebounds a game. The 6-6 sophomore played forward last season. 
Teaming with Boynes in the backcourt will be John "Chubby" Cox. The Villanova transfer has provided the Dons with the floor leadership that they lacked last year. He has already passed the school record for assists in a season 
.with 159, including a record 15 against Seattle last weekend. Cox is the only member of the team to have any previous playing experi­ence in the ACC or against Notre Dame. He scored 17 points for Villanova against the Irish in 1974. Rod Williams and Jeff Randell 
are San Francisco's top reserves. 
Williams averages seven points 
and 20 minutes of playing time per 
game. He has dealt out 98 assists. 
Randell, the senior captain, aver­
ages 6.6 points per contest as a 
forward. 
The Dons will be playing in front of their largest crowd of the year tomorrow in the ACC (11,345). The Dons have played before only two crowds all season that have ex­ceeded 6,000. 
San Francisco's winning streak is still far from being the longest in the school's history. The Bill 
Fred Herbst As Time Goes By 
:========================:===========================================================================================:Play it again 
This weekend is undeniably special for Notre Dame fans. Not only is the basketball team facing the top-ranked team in the nation, but the hockey team is also taking on the number-one rated hockey team in the nation. The ACC will be the focal point of the University this weekend, hockey on Friday and Saturday nights with basketball sandwiched in on Saturday afternoon -and all three events feature the number-one ranked team. 
But more than featuring top teams, they're important games. A sweep over Wisconsin would give the Irish a 3-1 season series advantage, and a definite psychological t~ge entering into the WCHA playoffs. A sweep would also put Notre Dame near the top in the national polls. A win over the Dons of San Francisco would put the Irish cagers well on their way to the NCAA Tournament as well as forcing the wire service polls to recognize Notre Dame in their top 20. 
Still, this weekend is much more than any of that. 
The weekend of J:muary 18-19, 1974 will long be remembered by Notre Dame fans as one of the greatest in the tradition-filled history of du lac. Just three weeks earlier Ara Parseghian had given the University a National Championship in football, and Irish fans had visions of a double >hampionship year as th~· basketball team had raced through their first nine games in convincing fa~hion. 
That weekend Notre Dame faced number-one rated UCLA, owners of that incredible 88-game winning streak. That same weekend the Notre Dame hockey team battled Michigan Tech in the ACC. Tech was the number-one hockey team in the country at the time. 
The ACC was a remarkable place to be that weekend. The Irish pucksters took Tech and the Irish cagers ended John Wooden's streak by shutting out the Eruins for the last 3:21 of the game while scoring 12 unanswered points to put the entire campus into bedlam. The enthusiasm of that weekend wasn't confined to the ACC, it engulfed the entire campus. 
It was Notre Dame's fabled spirit at its best. 
Since that weekend, Irish fans have not been able to match the emotion exerted during those two days. Why? Maybe Notre Dame fans just aren't what they used to be. Then again, maybe they haven't had the same opportunity to exhibit that type of spirit since 1974. 
Whatever the reason, this weekend provides Notre Dame with an opportunity that isn't afforded many -the opportunity to recapture the past. This year's senior class can remember that weekend four years ago, the rest of the student body can only imagine it. 
Thousands of people live longing to revisit some magic moment in their past. This weekend the seniors of Notre Dame can relive such a moment, and the remainder of the students can create a magic moment of their own. 
Dw-. tlw ~pirit that wa~ o;uch a force fpur years ago still exist? We'll lind out thi~ Wt~dC"nd. · 
Russell-K.C. Jones led Dons won 60 consecutive games and two NCAA championships in the mid­1950s. Ironically, it was the U.S. Olympic team that unofficially ended San Francisco's streak in 1957. That Olympic team was led by Bill Russell and K.C. Jones. 
The Dons are trying to become the ninth team in NCAA history to go an entire season undefeated. They did it themselves in 1955 and '56, North Carolina did it in '57, UCLA in '64, '67, . '72, '73, and Indiana last year. 
"San Francisco will be a great challenge for us," Phelps admit-· ted, "but it's a challenge that we're looking forward to. This will be just a great game." 
To meet the challenge presented by the Dons, Phelps will rely on the starting five the he has for most of the campaign. The Irish currently boast all five of the starters in double figures in scoring, led by Duck Williams' 17.3 average. Toby Knight follows Williams with a 14.8 mark. Dave Batton is scoring at a 
12.7 clip, Bruce Flowers at 11.3 and Rich Branning is averaging 10.4 points per game. 
Branning leads the team in assists with 117. 
Knight has led the Irish in rebounding in 15 of the team's 25 games, and averages 10.2 boards a. contest. Notre Dame is currently outrebounding opponents by an average of 11.7 caroms a tilt. 
ND faces top-rated Badgers 

Notre Dame has won 11 of their last 12 and has a record of 19-6, a mark that Phelps believes is good enough to get the Irish an NCAA bid regardless of tomorrow's out­come. The Irish are 15-1 at home this -season, their only loss corning at the hands of UCLA. 
Tomorrow's battle will be tele­vised nationally by the NBC-TVS network, channel16locally. Tipoff is slated for 12:30 p.m. 
1-y Fred Herbst Sports Editor 
Having clinched second place in the WCHA and not being able to move into first, the Notre Dame hockey team takes on first-place, number-one ranked Wisconsin in a two-game series tonight and tomor­row night in the ACC. 
Why play such a series? 
"We need these games to build our momentum and confidence for the playoffs," Irish head coach -Lefty Smith said. "Besides, we're playing the number-one team in the country and our league. We might be in second place, but we feel that we're the best team and this is a chance to prove it." 
In the first series of the year, neither team was able to prove their superiority as they split. Notre Dame won on the first night 4-1 and lost the second night 4-3. In that series Len Moher was in goal both nights and made 89 saves. Clark Hamilton paced the Irish attack with three goals. 
''The first series was an excel­lent one for college hockey,'' Smith noted, "and there's no reason to Mark Johnson with '63 points (26 goals, 37 assists) and Mike Eaves with 61 points (21 goals, 40 assists). Wisconsin boasts 11 doub­le goal scorers. 
Julian Baretta and Mike Dibble share the netrninding duties for Wisconsin. Baretta is the WCHA's top goalie, posting 3.02 goals against average and turned in the only shutout recorded in the leaglle this year when he beat Michigan State 5-0. 
Dibble gives up 4.36 goals a game, having allowed 68 goals in 
15.6 contests. 
Notre Dame's Brian Walsh con­tinues to lead the WCHA in scoring with 66 points (27 goals, 39 assists), however his lead in the scoring race has dwindled to one as Dave Debol of Michigan now has 65 points. 
Clark Hamilton and Don Fair­holm follow Walsh in scoring for the Irish with 47 and 46 points respectively. 
John Peterson and Len Moher continue to hold down the number two and three goaltender spots in the latest league statistics. Peter­son is currently allowing 3.38 goals a game while Moher is letting 3.82 goals to be scored a tilt. 
Wisconsin and Notre Dame have the best defenses in the WCHA. Each team has allowed a total of 116 goals to be scored against them. Wisconsin's club is very similar to ours," Smith observed. "They have good goaltending, strong defense and fine balance up front. The key to the series could well be the defensive play of both clubs and the goaltending. It won't be necessarily be a defensive series, both teams have excellent fire­power, but I would tend to think that it would be rather a tightly played series." 
"I'm expecting to see great hockey this weekend at the ACC," Smith said. ''When you get the top two teams in the league together, you have to expect some excellent hockey. You'll find that both clubs will be playing their best to prove that they're the best. There won't be any cheap shots in this series." 
Face-off for both contests is at 7:30p.m. 
expect that this series will be any different than the one in Madison. Both teams are trying to get ready for the playoffs and it should be an interesting match-up between the WCHA's number-one and two teams." . 
Wisconsin enters the series with a 25-5 WCHA record and SO points, tying the record for most points ever compiled by a WCHA team in a single season. The Badgers are 12-2 on the road and 13-3 at home. Overall, the Badgers are 28-7. One victory this weekend will give Wisconsin a school record-tying 29th win to match the 29 won by Wisconsin's 1973 NCAA Cham­pionship team (29-9-2). 
Offensively, the Badgers boast the WCHA's number three, four and five scorers. Defenseman Craig Norwich leads the team in scoring with 68 points (15 goals, 53 assists). He's followed by centers 
Pep rally tonight 
There will be a pep rally tonight for tomorrow's Notre Dame-San Francisco basketball game at 6:45 in the ACC Pit. Featured speakers include Irish head coach Digger Phdps, players Bill Paterno and Toby Knight, and former Irish play.er Chris "Hawk" Stevens.' • Brian Walsh will he making his final regular-se.1son appearance at the ACC this weekend as the lri<>h kers meet number-one Wisconsin. 







