
-

The 0 
server 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's Thursday, March 24, 1977 Vol. XI, No. 100 
Eddy Street in front of Nickies gets its share of debris from the student bars. (photo by Barbara Dodge) 
Roemer comments 
Hitching causes concern 
by Katie Kerwin ments. 

News Editor Parent requested that "the city 
file suit with the tavern owners on 
Responding to complaints about the basis that they are a public tavern-related nuisances in the nuisance." Corby-Eddy area, the South Bend "I would not suggest this Board of Public Safety agreed measure if this were a new prob­
yesterday to seek the cooperation lem, but we've been hav~ng this of Notre Dame students and offi­trouble for a long time,"\Parent cials and city police to solve the said. \J problem. After reading Parent's letter, the 
The board acted on a letter from board decided to follow the sugges­Councilman Roger 0. Parent which tion of Common Council attorney stated that the behavior of patrons Kathleen Cekanski to adopt "a of these bars constitutes a great long-range affirmative program of nuisance to local residents. Parent co-operation between the city and said that citizen complaints, which Notre Dame students." have increased considerably re­Cekanski noted that a similar cently, prompted his letter to the approach to this program was taken board. several years ago. "I think it 
"The problems are worse now worked out quite well," she said, than they've ever been," Parent and added that she hoped progress said, citing numerous complaints could be made before the end ofthe about littering, late-night noise and school year. illegally parked cars. Parent Cekanski emphasized the ser­stressed that his letter did not iousness of the problem, explaining mention students specifically and that area residents are fed up with that he did not want to imply that noise, litter and harassment. She sutdents were to blame for the commented that if the problem whole problem. However, the bars continues unchecked, attempts he named as particular problem might eventually be made by. areas-Bridget McGuire's, Nickies, citizens to rezone the area or close Corby's and the Library-are all down the bars. student-frequented establish-Student Body President-elect 

ND prof arrested for car smuggling 
result of not enough enforcement of laws." If arrests were made on a systematic basis, people would learn ot take the laws more seriously and the problem would correct itself. "I'm not calling for. mass arests," Parent said, explain­ing that what he advocates is education of the public through enforcement of the law on a systematic basis. 
Parent said he favors the "comp­rehensive approach" to solving the tavern area problems. "It's a matter, too, of tavern owners being more careful. They can't get rid of the responsibility for a problem they're obviously causing," he stated. 
The councilman also said that [continued on page 4] 

Tavern litter prompts South Bend action 
Dave Bender said that a meeting between city officials, student rep· resentatives and tavern owners would definitely be arranged soon and that the off-campus commis­sioner will have a large role in this discussion. Bender added that although relations between off-­campus students and the commu­nity may have been neglected in the past, he hoped the situation could be improved. 
• Bender said he wanted to make the issue known so that "students who are not causing the problem will realize what's going on" and so that publicity and peer group pressure might serve as a deterrent to further disturbances. He also suggested the possiblity of student clean-ups of the tavern area. 
'Part of the problem is the bar owners themselves, who are taking no responsibility for the general area around their bars," Bender added. 
Complaints about the tavern area have been a "recurring problem," according to Patricia DeClercq, clerk of the Board of Public Safety. Paper cups and other litter left by patrons leaving the bars, cars parked illegally on medians or blocking driveways, and other pub­lic nuisance violations have been reported. 
The board also plans to consult the Northeast Neighborhood Asso­ciation for their suggestions and help in finding a solution to the problems, DeClercq said. 
Parent called the situation "the should never go alone. 

"Hitchhikers should also make sure that the inside doors have handles that operate," Wolvos added. According to Roemer an incident was reported to ND secur­ity this year where a group of girls noticed that the car that had picked them up had no inside handles. The girls immediately insisted that the driver let them out. 
Wolovs also warned never to get in the front seat between two males, and to take note of the license number before entering the car. 
Most importantly, don't accept rides from anyone who looks sus­picious. "There are a lot of goofs looking for women hitchhikers." Roemer noted. "Hitchhikers should insist to be let out of the car if the driver acts suspicious. • • 
Rice expressed concern about male as well as female hitchhikers. "I think it is a dumb thing to do. In cities I've lived in I know that people cruise around just to pick up hitchhikers. I think it is pretty much the same in South Bend.·· People who hitch "are just asking 
jl-ontinued on pagL' 41 
by Joan Fremeau Staff Reporter 

Recent incidents involving htt'Ch­hikers have caused some concern among university officials, accord­ing to James Roemer, dean of students. 
In a letter to Kathleen Rice, St. Mary's dean of student affairs, Roemer related an incident where two St. Mary's students "were picked up by a motorist and noticed that the male driver had a towel over the top of his legs." 
"The girls asked the driver to drop them off at Notre Dame security, where they reported him," Roemer said. "Security followed the car. When they over­came the vehicle the man was hastily pulling on pants." 
Roemer explained that security officials took the man to the South Bend Police Station, where it was discovered that the man was "actu­ally wearing a short dress, panty hose and a padded bra... 
A similar incident had been reported about a month ago. Roemer said. Two SMC girls noticed the man who picked them up hitching was not wearing pants. However, they could not identify the man, and so no action could be taken, he explained. 
Apparently this man, who lives less than 30 miles from here, had many opportunities to pick up female hitchhikers, Roemer said. "He was a sick kind of guy. You don't know whether he wanted to molest the girls or not. He may not have wanted to make those kind of overtures." 
Sergeant Joel Wolvos of the South Bend Police Department commented, "There is no way to prevent a guy from dressing this way. It is important to check out the driver before getting into a car." 
Roemer cautioned that it is dangerous to hitchhike, especially when alone. "We can't tell stu­dents not to hitchhike. or discipline them for it. All we can do is discourage them. Hitchhiking. especially at night, is a rather dangerous practice, and will prob­ably cause troubles someday." 
Roemer and Wolvos stressed that the best way to prevent trouble is not to hitchhike. But if students must hitchhike. Wolvos said thev 
by Drew J. Bauer senior Staff Reporter 
A Notre Dame assistant profes­sor and two men from Italy have been arrested in connection with a federal investigation of a ring suspected of smuggling exotic cars into the country, The Chicago Tribune learned yesterday. 
Freed on bail after a preliminary hearing before a magistrate in Chicago on Jan. 22 were Enrico F. Plati, who has taught urban plan­ning and design in the architecture department for the last six years; and Paolo Bernardi and Antonio Consiglio, both of Turin, Italy. They were charged with conspiracy and customs law violations. 
A total of nine expensive Ferrari, Mercedes-Benz and Alfa Romeo autos were seized by customs officials in Chicago and Kalama­zoo, Michigan . 
"We were completely surprised by the news. In fact, we were shocked," said William Richard­son, chairman of the architecture department. Richardson first lear­ned of the matter Tuesday when a Tribune reporter called to confirm that Plati taught here. "He was a very popular professor -good, energetic, dedicated -and most of the students really liked him." 
Plati was in Chicago for most of this week, with some other profes­sors on a field trip to show fourth year architecture students some new building projects in the city. He was expected back last night. 
The Observer was unable to reach him for a comment. 
Hichardson ~aid that he planned to talk to Plati as soon as he could, although he con..,idcrcd Plat i inno­cent until provt:n guiltv. "And I am sure that some others would like to talk to him to," he added. 
University Provost James T. Burtchaell, when contacted by the Observer, had no comment on the matter. 
When the Observer asked Pro­vost James T. Burtchaell if the University would take any action against Plati because ofthe charge, Burtchaell refused to comment. 
Customs officials said that the cars involved in the matter were brought into the country under fictitious names and with claims that the vehicles were for an owner's personal use. Lower duty fees are charged on cars imported for personal use. Such cars then cannot be sold for a year. 
The U.S. Customs Office. which is investigating with the U.S. Attorney's office in Chicago, first learned of the alleged operation when an undercover customs agent answered a Jan. 20 Chicago news­paper ad in which a Mercedes-Benz was offered for sale. According to Donald Watson, special agent in charge of the office of investigation of the U.S. Customs Office in Chicago. the agents were referred to a South Bend telephone number. 
Watson said that undercover agents called that number. came to South Bend, and were shown a vehicle. which Watson thinks was a Mercedes, by Plati and Bernardi on Jan. 21. 
Watson then said that the agents were taken to Kalamazoo and shown eight other cars that were stored there. 
Assistant U.S. Attorney John l. Sullivan said that the charge also alleges that the third suspect. Consiglio. arrived at a garage in Chicago where Plati and Bernardi 
(continued on page 101 

Thursday, Marcil 2,., 1977

the observer 


I Ttw Obsener 1~ pubil~hed Mond.ty
8 pm --concert, "beethoven comes alive," by dave 

through f ndav and wet>klv dunng
basch, william cerny and fr. patrick maloney, howard 

the summer w~sion. except dunng
hall, admission free. 

the exam and vacat1on penods The ()b,erver IS publi~hed by ~tud('nt~ of 
8 pm --recital, all-beethoven music recital, howard 

the Un1ver~it) of Notre Dame and St Marv·s Collegl:' Subscnpt10ns
hall, admission free. 

may bP purrha~ed for $10 pPr yPar ($10 pl:'r sl:'mester) irom The Ob~er­
9 pm-11 pm --nazz, billy hassell and chris nemeth, 

ver. Box Q, Notre Dame. Indiana admission free. 
465~6 51:'cond class postage pa1d, Notre Dame. Indiana 46'>56 
The Observer is a member of the Assouated Press All reproduction 
12:15 am-2 am --nocture nightflight, wsnd-fm 88.9, 
steve slater, best in progressive music. 

right~ are reserved 

SURE! OUR VAUJES•ARE DIFFERENT!! 

(*The Observerl 
most people value: we value: getting power giving service to others
Night Editor: Joe Bauer 
getting money giving love to God
Asst. Night Editor: Leigh Tun­akan, Paula Carroll 
getting pleasure giving active concern to layout Staff: Sandy Colson 
getting ahead the poorEditorial layout: Pat Hanifin; 
giving a good education to 
Guest Artist: Maureen Sajbel 
today' s youth

Sports layout: Ray O'Brien Typists: Mel Celeste, Kathy 
And because of what we value Egbert, Marianne Corr, Gwen 
our lives have become 
Coleman 
JOYFUL! PEACEFlJL! MEANINGFlJL!
Night Controller: Morey 
How about your life? we have become Brothers,
Binder Day Editor: Marian Ulicny 
What do you value? members of a Roman Catholic Copy Readers: Ann Gales, 
How do you show it? Religious Community. We are Bob Varettoni 
THE CHRISTIAN BROTHERS 
Ad layout: Pat Russell Photographer: Barbara Dodge 


Brother Lawrence Porretta FSC 
Director of Vocations 
1840 S. Mayfair
) 

Westchester, m. I ,60153.._•:· '·'·'' 
" ...absorbingly written ••• inspirational•••" -Today's Parish 
Fully


Alive 
By William Toohey 
In his latest book, Fr. Toohey, of Notre Dame's Campus Ministry, speaks to youth (and anyone else who will listen) about making decisions for an integrated Christian life. He calls for involvement in the real world of today, for service in a spirit of Christian love. 
IDEAL FOR LENTEN READING 
mABBey PRess 
News Briefs-----· 
=----=====-=============World 
Indians select new leader 
NEW DELHI, India -Morarji Desai. the 81-year-old politi~al veteran whose new Janata party ended the long rule of lndtra Gandhi and the Congress party, was chosen prime minister today. 


=============================== Nati ona 
Frost, Nixon begin taping 
San Clemente, Calif. -Richard M. Nixon sat down yesterday with British talk show star David Frost to start the first of 12 taped interviews about his life, his career of almost 30 years and the Watergate scandal that drove him from office. The two-hour interview sessions, the last set for April 20, will be edited down to four 90 minute programs to be aired in May on television and radio in the U.S. and at least 10 foreign countries. 

Carter curbs water project 
WASHINGTON -President Carter put a total of 30 federal water 
projects on the chopping block yesterday and said he will drop the 
ax if they don't meet economic, environmental and safety tests. 
That leaves 307 of the 337 water projects of the Corps of 
Engineers and Bureau of Reclamation on Carter's "safe list." 
They passed initial administration screening, will not be subject to 
further review and will be funded in the upcoming fiscal year. 



n Campus Todau-­
8 am-11 pm---fencing championships, ace fieldhouse. 
9 am -11:15 am--blood station, volunteers at infirmary _1 pm-3 pm from zahm and badin. 
12:15 pm --mass, celebrated by fr. griffin, Iafortune ballroom. 
1:15 pm-2:45 pm --workshop, interview skills, executive board room. 
3:30 
pm --lecture, "dante's allegory and the augustinian tradition," by john freccero, yale universi­ty, sponsored by theology department, room 175, medieval institute. 

3:30 
pm --computer course, "cobol", room 115, computer center/math bldg, course continues march 29 and 31. 


8 pm --resume cllinic, sponsored by student affairs, 
holy cross, smc campus ministry. 
7:30 pm --lecture, "stylish and iconographical developments of byzantine icons; 6th-14th centuries," by professor nikos stavroulakis, curator of jewish museum, athens. 
8 pm --drama, "clarence darrow", by david rintels, 
sponsored by nd/smc theater second scene production, 
washington hall, admission free. 


Paris subway system stages live concerts to deter muggers 
PARIS (AP) -The Paris subway system, campaigning against mug­gers and beggar musicians, began four days of live concerts yesterday in an experiment aimed at impro­ving live underground for millions of riders. 
Specially hired ensembles sent rock, folk, jazz, pop and classical melodies cascading through 20 of the 350 stations in the Metro system that carries four million commuters daily over a 125-mile network. 
"Not bad but why do they need so many amplifiers," a woman watching the Lemonade Trio per­form at the Auber Station said. 
St. Mary's Choir to give concert 
The Saint Mary's College Wo­men's Choir, under the direction of Rick Sibley, instructor in music, will appear in concert tonight at 8 
p.m. in O'Laughlin Auditorium. 
The concert, entitled • • A Saint Mary's Song", will celebrate 100 years of Saint Mary's College music. With 'The Bells of Saint Mary's" as the recurring theme, the program will include sacred songs, composed by students as far back as 1900; novelty songs; school songs and alma maters; and songs and costumes from the turn of the century and the 1950's. all the music was researched, compiled and arranged by Sibley and Nils Vigeland. assistant professor of music, with the assistance of Sr. Rita Claire Lyons and other mem­bers of the College community. 
In conjunction with the concert, SMC's alumnae office will display pictures, scrapbooks and other memorabilia of the past 125 years of campus life in the lobby of 0' 'laughlin. 
The performance is open to the public without charge. 

ERRATUM 

Anyone interested in signing up to be a teacher or suggesting topics for the Free University should call Charlie Moran at 7757, not at 7747 as printed in an advertising in yesterday's Observer. The correct number is 7757. 
"It's nice but he noise is a bit much," a man said. 
A young man listening to the Bidon K Jazz drum ensemble said, "I like it a lot. It should liven things up here." 
But an older man said, "Nega­tive, negative. That's my reaction. I'm a printer and I hear enough noise all day long. All I want is peace and quiet. At this rate, I'll have a headache before I get home.'•' 
Farther east, at the Nation Station, the two-man Voodoo Lean Cows, in purple and gold lame outfits and chalk white face make­up. played accordian and saxo­phone as some SO schoolchildren cheered and howled. 
At the Republic stop the Damra­oui Moroccan folk group, playing native instruments, drew about 100 spectators. Jonas Norber, who plays his accordian in the subway for a living, was annoyed. 
"I can take it for four days, but after that it means still competition and bread out of my mouth. When there's two stores on the same block it means one of them makes less money, right? It's a simple rule of life, understand?" 
Under the theme of "Metro Motto Allegro," or "Metro Very Gay" the subway concerts are to continu_e to 8 p.m. Wednesday and Thursday and until 11 p.m. Friday and Saturday. 
Muggings and other violent crimes on the Mf.'tro escalated 33 per cent to more than 1,200 last year, and an 800-man anti-crime squad was beefed up to 2,000 in October in "Operation Punch," a drive against the violence. Author­ities say "Punch" has substantially reduced muggings but gave no figures. 
However, police say the job of .mproving security is complicated by scores of unauthorized musici­ans in subway corridors who cause pedestrian jams, making the work of pickpockets that much easier. 
Subway officials said in addition to improving security and service, the Metro is aiming to "enrich and psychologically improve" the time riders spend underground. 
Special Wed.&Thurs. Tostada Dinner$1.60 
§J~T~ 


3 




St. Mary's candidates e)_(.plain platforms 


b Anne Bachle -solve the "little annoying problems see a stable communication process--meet stuaems and gather opinions. ou~ the student body." y students have to face everyday." as absloutely necessary in order to Hedges mentioned that long--Baggiano noted that Stuaent 
Candidates for the offices of These problems, according to the achieve this. t~rm projects like g~tting a new ~ffairs involves everyone at. SM~. Student Body President, Vice-Pres-platform, are long lines at the hbr~ry and d~velopmg a sp?rts . The only way we can do tht~gs ts ident of Academic Affairs, and bookstore and dining hall, lack of Rukavina-Hedges-O'Connell currtculum can t be completed m a tf we know what you want, she Vice-President of Student Affairs at organized activities on the SMC ye~u, but shoul~ be st~rted. She added. Saint Mary's explained their plat-campus and the inefficiencies of Rukavina, a junior, said she sees satd she would hke to tmprove the Chin said she sees the office of forms to students in the dining hall the shuttle. student government as a service to Academic Council, which started Vice-President of Academic Affairs last night. RukavinaRedge!>-O'Connell see the SMC community, to which the this year. as an informative liaison between 
This is the first time in recent student government's purpose as students have a right and also an Hedges proposes attracting more the faculty, the students, and the years at SMC that there have been. both representation and action. obligation. speakers to SMC. She also wants administration. She added she two tickets competing for the They say they are running because "Lots of you may think student to start a "free symposium," would like to increase communica­po sitions. One ticket is composed they are convinced SMC is in need government is worthless, accomp-si~ilar . to Notre p~me's Fr~e tion in order to involve those who of Mary Rukavina for SBP, Cathy of new direction. lishes nothing, or is too complica-Umverstty, but uttltzmg SMC s don't know anything about her Hedges for VPAA, and Kathy The Chin-Baggiano-Stolze plat-ted and far-off to be concerned tale~t. . position. O'Connell "or VPSA. The other 1;-fo.rm stresses the importance of th.e about. But it's none of these. It is o. c.o.nnell would hke to see more 
1• • • • d · • C Sh The candidates will be available
"cket t"ncludes Mary Ann Stolze "or,,. ~tudent body's interest and help m a service, and although hmtte • tt s acttvtttes on the SM campus. e
ti 1' ~ h 1 h .. R k · d th ., this evening at a "Meet the 
Bagg.tano "or VPSA · making stude~t government work. t e on y one we ave, u avma a1so propose a once-a-m. on .or-
SBP Jo Ann 1' d "d ., t d t Candidates" gathering in the SMC 
d 'T Ch" ., VPAA Their purpose is "reactive an sat . urn .or s u en s to votce comp-
an erease m .or · · h .· · h ld l"k Coffee Shop from 6:30p.m. to 7:30 
The Pla..,orm "or the Rukavina-pro-active, to be aware of s.tudent Rukavina proposes talkmg to t e lamts, and satd s e. wo_u t .e !o 
u· 1' d d th t th d" · t th p.m. The gathering will give
Hedges-O'Connell tt"cket states the needs and con.sequently res••pon to stu ents once a mon a e tmng see more commumca ton wt m 
· d t d t th h 11 students the opportunity to ask the Candt.dates' concern "or workt"ng to those needs tn some way. They haII , and gomg oor-o-oor o e a s.
1' . candidates questions and talk to them in an informal atmosphere.
Stolze-Baggiano-Chin

--~-------------~~----~ 
. 
. ·. ~ ., ' Campaigning will continue 
Stolze, a junior, stressed the through the weekend, but must end importance of communiCation, in-at midnight on Sunday. No active volvement, and availability as ways or outward campaigning is allowed student government can become a on election day, Monday. This part of each student's life. She also · includes buttons, hats and shirts as emphasized the necessity of stu-well as signs.
t dent support. Voting will be conducted Mon­' "Student government," Stolze day in the LeMans lobby from 10t commented, "cannot operate with-a.m. until 6 p.m. 
1Free University to change 
..--t registration process . 
by Eve Jehle ogous to class registration in thet Due to the overwhelming student fall. Computerized class rosters & response to this semester's Free will also be provided for teachers. PROf\TS t University courses, registration for Moran expressed the hope that VS & next semester will be computerized more students will volunteer to MEN\ f and handled in much the same teach a Free University class in a 
. -...tEM/"-...._PLOV , __ ,,,"'/.. t fashion as regular academic course particular subject of interest or
I' registration. expertise. There is a desperate1 Charlie Moran, head of this need for teachers in bartending semester's Free University pro-which was the most popular course




I~MEN~ 

t gram explained that interested of this semester, boasting an 
students will be able to obtain Free enrollment of 400. Also, teachers·f Chester F. Giermak, president and chief executive officer of Eriez Magnetics, Erie, f University cards at pre-registration for beginning and intermediate & Pennsylvania, will speak on "Ethics in Business," Wednesday, March 23 at Saint Mary's t this semester for courses they want mechanics are urged to sign up. 
f College. The lecture, sponsored by the College's business and economics department, is to take in the fall. All the courses Any hobbies or areas of interest scheduled for 7:30p.m. in Carroll Hall, Madeleva Memorial Building. f will be check-marked and cards can become Free University cour­t Agraduate of the College of William and Mary, Giermak joined Eriez as sales manager in must be obtained for them in the ses; no field is too small. This 1960. He was previously associated with Stephens-Adamson Manufacturing Company in Aurora, & same way they are for other semester courses as varied ast Illinois, General Motors in Dayton, Ohio and johnson & johnson Surgical Company in Chicago. r University check-marked courses. macrame, offset printing, and sil-Giermak contends that business is the most ethical of all professions. In his talk, which will f "1800 students signed up for versmithing drew large numbers of t cover the broad spectrum of ethics and how it applies to people in business, he will concentrate courses this semester and because students. Even the more academi­on the necessity and ethics of profits. & of necessary cut-offs in some cally oriented courses such as novel 
L 
t The lecture, which is also part of the 1977 American Scene Series, is open to the public without f sections of courses, we were only analysis attracted many. charge. able to place 1400 of them, •• Moran The deadline for teacher sign-up 
j 

-----------------------said. is April 15. Those interested 
Hopefully, the check-mark sys-should contact Moran at 7757. tern will remedy this situation for Moran said he WQS pleased with approximately 2000 students ex-this semester's Free University
Three jobs open at SMC 
pected to sign up for the fall enrollment and is enthusiastic classes. Tfu•.:P dtuiPntc: will I!'O about next semester and the future by Maria Frigyesi graphic services and occasionally The third unfilled position is that through a registration process anal-of Free University in general. 
writes speeches. A bachelor's of Assistant to the Director of Brian Regan, Assistant to the degree and work experience in a Publications, responsible for the 
,----------------,
president for College Relations, is related field are required for this coordination of printed matter. A presently interviewing applicants position. bachelor's degree is not required for three job openings at St. Mary's The office of Director of Publica­for this position. 
The positions to be filled are that tions has been vacant since Sept­fo date, Regan said, 22 persons of Director of Public Information, ember of 1976. The responsibilities have applied for the position ,of 

! ~\tLlB ~ l
Director of Publications, and Assis­of this position include assuring Director of Publications, and 19 tant to the Director of Publications. editorial accuracy and style in the persons for the recently vacated "Ihe office of Director of Public production of all non-academic and office of Director of Publications. Information, unoccupied for the non-student printed matter origin­Because the Director of Publica­
past twelve days, is responsible for ating from St. Mary's. This tions chooses the assistant, no I ···• ~··· l the preparation of news releases includes the production of the applications have been filed for the and feature articles, and for publi­quarterly Alumnae Magazine, The Assistant job. 
l Weekend Specials I
cation of a quarterly newsletter, Courier. A bachelor's degree and Personal qualifications for each The Saint Mary's Reports. The experience are also required for job include an attitude of responsi­. director also supervises ph_oto-this position. bility, creativity, and "ideals com­
l
patible with the goals of the 
I CARJlY -t. OtJT 
college," according to Mr. Regan. Since the vacancy of the Director 
WSND appeals for money of Publications last September, the t Your Choice Director of Public Information had assumed the responsibilities of The WSND-FM will hold its seventh The goal for this campaign is Courier. FIFTH OF RUM, WHISKEY, annual appeal for listener sup­$2,500, which will be used to Regan welcomes all applications t port, Summerfund 77, March 26 maintain station operation and for the openings, hoping to fill ' through April 3. The fund drive provide basic living expenses for them as soon as possible. "Experi­t GIN, OR VODKA seeks the support necessary to the students who stay to staff the ence will be a big factor in the finance station operation during station. selection process," he concluded. t the coming summer. 
t

Listeners are encouraged to call in their pledges at 7342 and mail them t


Lamont to re·ceive degree 
to WSND-FM Summerfund, Box 532, Notre Dame. Further infor­t 
TONITE 7-11 mation and progress reports will be Bishop Donald R. Lamont of his citizenship and deported hi111 given continually on WSND. 88.9 Umtali. Rhodesia, will be among Wednesday night. t FM. · those receiving honorary degrees The University usually anno!Jnc­
at Notre Dame commencement es all its honorary degree recipients t 7&7's 25C WSND's operating budget for exercises May 22. University offi­together a few weeks before grad­
the school year is provided by the cials· confirmed Wednesday. uation but this vcar two revealed t Remember from now till gradua­administration and underwriting 
their participati•:m themselves in 
tion every Mon. and Tues. from
grants. However, as in past years, The 65-year-old Carmelite bish­t
new~ intnvicv. ~ --Bishop LtnHHtt 
9-12 the ubrary will have G and T's
the station is entirely dependant on op was recently convicted of failing 
and Prc..,idcnt Jimmy Carter. both 
its listeners for the additional to report guerillas in his diocese to of whom will rL'tTivc.dodor of Ia" ~ .md l and 7's for 50 cents and money needed to continue through­the white minority Rhodesian go­& ·tdi<"~ lr~ :.1 00.
degree<,. Cartn will al<,o gi\l· 111, 
•~~~~ .......... ~-..-..... ......... ~~~~~~~~
out the ye_ar, vernment. which stripped hi~. of -eommcnccmcnt atldn·<,~, ., 
' 


the observer Thursday, March 24, 1977 
J 


St. Mary's offers summer art workshop 
by Maureen Sajbel Staff Reporter 

For the third consecutive year St. Mary's will be offering the Redbud Summer art workshop. This work­shop, open to anyone college age or older, is a two week course designed to give students a chance to work exclusively in ceramics, drawing and painting, printmaking or photography in a natural setting. 
The summer art program is open both to majors and non-majors and no art work or previous art classes are required. It is a co-ed program for students from any school. 
The Redbud Trail camp is locat­ed near Buchanan, Mich. on the St. Joseph River, approximately 20 minutes from South Bend. Summer art students liye in furnished cabins and meals are served in a main lodge. 
The workshop runs from May 23 to June 4, and those attending will receive three transferable art cre­dits from St. Mary's. 
Each class offered this summer will seek to incorporate the natural 
'Show of influence' 
surroundings and environment in its work. The raku ceramics will be mainly hand-built works using the oriental raku method of glazing. Students build kilns and use raw materials from the natural sur­roundings. The first week will be spent in construction and the second in firing the pieces. The artist Bill Maxwell is scheduled to instruct this class. 
The second class, taught by Sr. Cecilia Ann Kelly, will be drawing and painting. This class will include a study of natural forms using the techniques of rubbing, assemblage, montage and fumage. Materials, to a large extent, will also be found in the environment. 
The third class offered will be printmaking. This includes two and three dimensional work using wood and stone for rubbings and woodcuts. The printmaking class is taught by Carol Ann Carter. 
The fourth class, taught by Jim Raymo, will be photography. Students learn to set up a darkroom and work with the basic photogra­phic processes using natural ima­gery. The class is open to both beginning and advanced photogra­phers. 
Kate McDonnell, coordinator of the Redbud workshop, emphasized the advantages of the program saying that students progress as mu<::h in two weeks as they do in a semester. the reason was that "students have no conflicts with other subjects and no other com­mitments," McDonnell stated. "The quality of the work is high and a strong community feeling develops between the students." 

Also included in the program will be several field trips to the studios of artists working in the area and to the Indiana dunes for projects dealing with the beach environ­ment. 
The Redbud camp has facilities for boating, volleyball, basketball, and swimming. Besides being on the river, the camp has its own spri ngfed pool. 
Each evening a guest lecturer or film will be availahle to interested students. Past lecturers have included professors from various departments at St. Mary's, and films have been mainly on the lives of artist, authors and composers. 
The cost of the two week program is $270, plus $15 in lab fees for those in ceramics and printmaking. The $270 fee in­cludes tuition, room, board and 

Mayors lobby for u1rban aid 
W ASBINGTON [AP] -Nine of 
the nation's big city mayors lobbied . 
on Capitol Hill Wednesday in 
support of Carter administration 
programs for expanded urban aid. 
The mayors also met with key administration officials in what Mayor Kenneth A. Gibson of Newark said was "a show of influence." 
Mayor Abraham Hearne of New York City joined the other mayors at mid day at a luncheon with Rep. Henry Reuss, (D.) Wis., House Banking Committee chairman. 
Gibson, the president of the U.S.. Conference of Mayors, said after 'lleeting with Patricia Harris, sec­
~tary of Housing and Urban 
Tavern liHer causes uproar 
[continued from page 1] 
while he is willing to talk with student representatives, commu­nity leaders and bar owners, he thinks a strong legal approach is also necessary. He said that meet­ings with student representatives from Notre Dame a few years ago produced only temporarily success­ful results, and despite commit­ments made to neighborhood leaders by tavern owners in the past, "the situation has not im­proved appreciably, and in some 
ways may be getting worse." 
Development, that President Car­
ter was "Going in the right 
direction. He's doing a good job 
and we intend to support it." 
Gibson and Mayors Kevin White of Boston and Michael A. Dilandic of Chicago praised the administra­tion's $4 billion proposal of com­munity development grants to cities for the next fiscal year. 
Officials with the Conference of 
Mayors said the big cities hoped to 
head off possible opposition from 
suburbs and smaller towns that are 
not entirely satisfied with the 
Carter administration formula for 
apportioning the money. Carter's 
proposal would increase the Com­
munity Development funds by $500 
million over this year and shift 
more aid to deteriorating big cities. 
"We all agree this is an equit­able formula," White said. Most big cities will nearly double their share of the funds, the mayors said. 
Earlier in the day of lobbying which took them back and forth across the nation's capital, the mayors appealed to Sen. Russell Long. chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, to support the administration's proposal to help cities fight high unemployment. 
Carter is asking for an additional $25 million to renew that program for five years. The House version calls for only $632 million more. 
Gibson and Mayor Richard Hatcher of Gary, Ind., both blacks, also said they support the appoint-




Ir----------------­
~ . I

! ~ !WT\lfln~ ~ 
II THE NEWEST CONCEPT IN 
\I 

I ATHLETIC FOOTWEAR I OVER 60 STYLES OF ATHLETIC SHOES I RUNNING -BASKETBALL -TENNIS I PLUS A WIDE SELECTION 
I OF SPECIAL SHOES 1 Also 
Tennis Wear Swimwear

I 
Warm.Up Suits Athletic Bags

I
I Located In The 100 Center 1 I Main Building -Lower Level 1 
ment of Mayor Peter F. Flaherty of Pittsburgh to be deputy U.S. attorney general. In a Senate confirmation hearing Tuesday, some Civil rights officials accused Flaherty of defying an order to bus students to integrate schools in Pittsburgh. 
The other mayors in town were Coleman Young of Detroit, Moon Landrieu of New Orleans, Tom Bradley of Los Angeles and Lee Alexander of Syracuse. 

Hitching dangers pointed out 
[continued from page 1] for trouble,'' she pointed out. 
Roemer and Rice both said they believe it is their obligation to warn students against h!thc_hiking. Roemer urges students to use care and common sense to help prevent futul'e incidents. 
transportation to and from the camp. Each class is limited to 10 students, so McDonnell advises early registration. Anyone inter­
~~~~~7~;~oc:~~~::~ ~~~~~a~~l~:: 
,---------------. 
SHAKESPEARE'S ALIVE & WELL& LIVING IN AMERICA 

'---------------1 . -~---....
.....­

STUDENT UNION PRESENTS••••• 
JACK NICHOLSON 


One Flew Over The Cuckoo's Nest 
Engineering Auditorium 
St. ·Mary's art department. Final registration and payments are due by Friday, April 22. 
-







r:-----I 
. T~~P'(?R';A~~~? I 
·I 
e can help. I Contact: 
I 
Auto Driveaway Co. 
674-9786 
I 
Deposit Required 
Returned at Destination I -·Must be 21.-­
I 


------COUPON -----­
$1.00 off any 14 inch Pizza 
713 E. Jefferson 
limit 1 coupon per pizza 
-----COUPON -----­

$.50 off any 10 inch Pizza 
713 E. Jefferson 


Immediate Benefits For Those Who Qualify 
•FULL 
TUITION FOR JUNIOR & SENIOR YEAR 

•ALL 
BOOKS 


•All 
EDUCATION, LAB FEES 

•$1 
00 MONTHLY SUBSISTANCE 


A lot of companies \\ill offer you an important sounding-
title. · 
But how many offpr you a really important job'? 
In thE' Nan·. vou get om• as soon as \'OU earn vour com­missJOn. A joiJ ~·ith responsibility. A joiJ that n•quirPs skill and leadership. A job that's mon• than just a iob. lwcamw it's also an advPntun•. . . 
IF THATS THE KIND OF JOB YOU'RE LOOKING FOR, CALL 
Lt. Commander Nelson 283 -6442 

·-----------------· 
Diet psych-up book 
ND senior becomes author for credit 
by Diane WUson end of this semester. The book besides for health and beauty, Dr. Donald Costello, McKeown's that I normally would not have time deals with dieting, a subject she explained McKeown. She said CAP advisor, also provides "moral for for many years." 
Writing a book m"ay be a far-off says she has been interested in people should also consider world support." Writing a book takes a lot of time, dream for most people, but for one since she was very young. hunger, ecological problems, and McKeown will receive 15 credit explained mcKeown, and there just senior at Notre Dame that dream McKeown describes her book not over-consumption. Also, she hours and is graded by her advi­wouldn't be enough time if she had has become reality. Kathleen as another how-to-diet book but added, all the packaging that goes sors. She is not required to attend to hold down a job besides writing. 
McKeown has begun work on her rather a book "to get you psyched into most foods today are ruining any classes although she said she McKeown said she has worked own book as a project under the to do it." There are lots of books the environment. had the option of sitting in on nine harder at this than any other Collegiate Scholar Program. on how to diet, but none that McKeown pointed out that the different classes. These classes all studies. This was her project, her 
McKeown, who is a member of approach the subject from this "Twinkie is the epitome of what is have to deal with the project she is idea, and her inspiration, she the College Academic Program, point of view, according to bad about the American diet. It is a working on, from writing to publi­explained.hopes to complete at-least the first McKeown. fast food, is full of white sugar and cation to American culture. "This way I get to do something I 
draft of her 200 page book by the There are lots of reasons to diet white flour, has enough packaging An Arts and Letters student with want to do instead of just taking a to kill off a few birds and bees, and a major in English, McKeown bunch of English classes," she a bunch of preservatives, which hopes that after graduation she can added. aren't good for anyone." get a job in either communications Thomas J. Jemielity, assistant
Hannon notes deficiencies 
McKeown became interested in or international affairs. She also 
professor of English and head of this independent study program wants to get her book published CAP, agreed with McKeown that when she first read about Notre soon after graduation and hopes it the independent study program is 
Dame before she ever came here. will sell. very worthwhile. He said it gaveShe submitted her proposal to the "It is a definitely worthwhile and the students the possibility of doing CAP Steering Committee last sem­excellent program," stressed a study project that interested them 

in U.S. laws enforcement 
by Mark Perry demand strongly enough protection 

ester. McKeown. "It allows me to do instead of taking the usual fivefrom crime. In this way, the law is 
Presently McKeown is the only something within tlt.!!_ Y classes.
not enforced, claimed Hannon. 

student in this program. Last
"In the end," Hannon notes,

Civic peace and personal security semester there were none. To get
"the victim of crime, not the

cannot be obtained without law and into this program a student has to
accused or convicted felon, re­

without justice under law being have his project approved by the
ceives unequal justice under Jaw."

regarded as soverign, according to CAP Steering Committee and then 
Hannon noted five cases where

Stuart L. Hannon, a former foreign get three advisors to work with
the criminal system is equal and

officer and consultant on inter­them.
probably superior to law enforce­

national economics and communi­McKeown's advisors are Dr.
ment agencies: in numbers, in

cation problems. Elizabeth Christman, her faculty
ordinance, in urban and inter­

director and a writer, Dr. BernardHannon commented on law and urban ability and speed, in com­Wostmann, a biologist, and Dr.
enforcement of Jaw at a lecture at munication, and in their ability to Kenneth Moore, an anthropoligist.
the Memorial Library Auditorium control the time and the place for 
last night, sponsored by the Insti­the crime. tute for International Studies. If the criminal is youthful. radi­Hannon spoke briefly on what he cally or ethnically underprivileged, feels are deficiencies in the laws or possesses a folk-hero flair, "he 
and their enforcement, in the U.S. sometimes wears the 'white hat,' '' and on a world-wide scale. Hannon said. If apprehended, he 
Bids for the Aprii 15th senior "Almost everyone has been an added, the chances of being class formal may now be purchased 
re­accessory to a crime," Hannon leased quickly are good. in tlJe Lafortune ballroom at a cost noted, whether it be an irrespon­"Crime has been institutional­of $35 per couple. Tickets will be 
sible parent, an ineffective church ized, like its large scale model, on sale this week and next week. or a poor school system. The legal war," Hannon noted. He said Buse.'> to Chicago for the formal system in the United States today, unlike other disasters, we cannot will be provided at a reduced rate if 

tell when crime will come, and 
enough students sign up for them, cannot prevent the crimin<>.l act according to Jay Pittas, formal 
itself. When caught, Hannon committee chairman. Pittas said 
added, modern society does not 

transportation should cost bet­know how to punish the criminal. 
ween $9-12 per couple. On the world-wide scale, Hannon 
Flowers will be provided byused the United Nations as an 
Ronsely, Inc,. of Chicago. Pittas example of little action taken by the 
said they may be ordered throughworld's countries to prevent crime. 
the formal committee from April 4 Hannon pointed out that in the 
to April 7. 
U.N. charter there is a pledge to 

Flower prices are $3.85 for maintain international peace and 
corsages, $10.50 for nosegays and security and to take collective 
$. 75 for boutonnieres. measures to suppress any threats Seniors may contact Pittas atStuart L. Hannon 
to this peace and security. 

287-2063 for more information. Hannon said, has been a main But. as Hannon observed, "we 
accessory, regarding the criminal can count on the fingers on one 


Class office 

as a "fallen angel" and allowing hand the number of effective him to return to the streets soon collective measures that have been 

candidates 

after his crime is committed. even attempted, and all these are "We can only survive in a society on a secondary scale. On a major 

to meet 

that comes together to observe and world crisis nothing has been done, enforce the law,'' Hannon stated. and frequently nothing attemp­There will be a short, important He said, examples of society's ted." meeting concerning class officer 
lack of concern are the facts that In conclusion, Hannon called for election procedures and rules at only a small percentage of crimin­"the kinds of decisions that I think, 6:30 p.m. tonight in the Student als are convicted, 30 percent or under law, we would like to be Activities Office in LaFortune. more of all violent crimes are not blessed with today, in our Amer­Ali candidates for class office 
reported, and society does not ican society and in the world." should attend. 

Carter proposes relief for drought stricken states 
by James Gerstenzang California, for example, the drought designated areas. 
Associated Press Writer streamflow is 74 per cent below --Establishment of a Farmers normal. Home Administration program pro­At the same time, Andrus asked viding $100 million in five percent 
the House Interior Commitee to loans to help farmers and ranchers WASHINGTON (AP) -President trim $300 million from a $400 offset anticipated crop and live­Carter asked Congress for $844 million program approved by the stock losses. million in loans and grants vester-Senate for drought relief on irriga­--Authorization for the Interior day to help communities, farmers, ted land. Andrus told the commit­Department to provide $100 million ranchers and businesses stricken tee the government assistance in five per cent loans for the by drought in western and plains should beavailable only for land on purchase of water. states. federal reclamation projects. The 
--In other programs, $30 millionIn a message to Congress, the Senatemeasure would permit grants would be supplied to the Bureau ofPresident urged immediate consid-to irrigate areas outside such Reclamation for irrigation, $14eration of his legislative proposals. projects. 
million would be given to the South Interior Secretary Cecil Andrus Carter proposed the following Western Power Administration topredicted the proposals would win legislative actions: insure adequate energy, and $100quick approval from Congress. --Temporary authority to allow the million would go to the Agricultural "While we do not pretend that Economic Development Adminis­Stabilization and Conservation Ser­we can prevent every hardship or tration and the Farmers Home vice to help share the cost ofrelieve every defect of the severe Administration to provide $150 emergency soil conservation prac­drought we arc facing in many million in grants and $300 million 
tice<>.

parts of the nation," Andrus said, in loans at S percent interest to "we do feel that the total program communities for emergency water 
.: White House Press Office will substantially alleviate some of system improvements. ~a1d existin::. drought a~','>tance the worst conditions." --Establishment of a Small Busi-program~ \\LTL' worth $1.2 billion 
The West is expected to have its ness Administration program pro-and that the new programs would lowest water supply in recorded viding $50 million in S per cent bring total fedcr;tl drought relief to 
hist~ry t~i: •:u.n:~cr. I~ -~or~:~r~-. loa_~~ t_o. ~m~~--~~s!~~s,;~;.~ ,.i.r..~!i9.r... .,~l_.,OJ~J~~~....$},)].i]~<.!~l-... ~ ··~. ,.~ ..... --~ 
this friday and every friday 5:15 mass & supper 

JUGGLER 
Notre Dame's Journal of the Arts 
is now accepting for publication 
poetry, fiction, drama, photography, art, design, criticism 
SUBMIT MATERIAL TO : 
JUGGLER, LaFortune Center 
-or-

ENGLISH DEPT. 356 O'Shag 
DEADLINE : MARCH 25 
Inane IS • tJiffnna&e!tt}!jj3
.._ 

PREPARE FOR: \ 



~·~·~ 
GMAT • GRE • OCAT VAT • SAT ECFMG ·FLEX NAT'L MEDICAL BOARDS NAT't DENTAL BOARDS 
Our broad range of programs prov1des an umbrella of test­mg know-how that enables us to otter the best preparation avall3ble no matter wh1ch course is taken. Over 38 years of exper'ience and success. Small classes. Voluminous home study materials. Courses that are constantly up­dated. Permanent centers open days. evenmgs & week­ends all year. Complete tape facilities for review of class lessons and for use of supplementary materials. Make-ups for missed lessons at our centers 
SPRING, SUMMER, WINTER COMPACTS MOST CLASSES-8 WEEKS BEF. EXAM 
******************* 
LAST CHANCE FOR NEW SPRING 
MCAT FOUR WEEK INTENSIVE STARTS APRIL 4, 6 p.m.-MON/THURS 
2050 W. Devon ,, Chicago, Ill. 60645 ·.·: 
(312) 764 5151 ' 

:,T PAfPA~ATION 4! 1ST~ t~-;:E 1938 




"*The Observer 
EDITORIAl BOARD 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's Editor-in-Chief
Marti Hogan Martha Fanning Managing Editor Bob Brink Asst. Managing Ed.
The Observer is published by students of the University Kathy Mills Executive Editorof Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. It does not Maureen Flynn Editorial Editornecessarily reflect the policies of either institution. The Barb Breitenstein Exec. News Editornews is reported as accurately and as objectively as Tom Byrne Campus Editorpossible. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of · Jean Powley St. Mary's Editorthe Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions and letters Katie Kerwin News Editorare the views of their authors. Column space is available Paul Stevenson Sports Editorto all members of the community, and letters are Pat Cole Special Projects Ed.
encouraged to promote the free expression of varying David O'Keefe Features Editor
opinions on campus. BoxQ
Business Manager Sue Quigley 
Notre Dame 

Advertising Manager Steve Bonomo Copy Editor Barb Langhenry Production Manager Karen Chiames Ind. 46556 Photo Editor Paul Clevenger 

Saccharine Controversy 
Wa~m, 
Soft, and Mushy 

__.iiiiiiii__. mike richte:r 
I am sure that all of Notre Dame solve the said drunk from all faithful have heard the most fa­blame. (I don't know how that mous phrase of the most famous notion, "Aw, he can't help it, he's fight song, "Wake up the echoes drunk,'' got into our society. cheering her name!" We sing it People who believe it are not when we win, we sing it when we thinking.) lose, we sing it when there's no How does anyone get drunk? Do game going on. It's a great song leprechuans spirit spirits into the representing a great student body. guts of the Notre Dame faithful? Allow me to share some of the new No. People decide to drink. Again, echoes that seem to be bouncing contrary to popular belief, drunks around now, perverting the spirit of should be as responsible for their the old. actions as anyone who is sober. 
"What a great game!..Com'on Individual responsibility is not let's get down to the dining hall!" poured down the drain as a 
"What are we having?" merry-maker pours booze down his 
Pork chops .. Great! Pork chops tube. A drinker's responsibility and potatoes! ! ! " begins with the willful decision to (and once in the dining hall ... ) impair judgement by drinking. 
"Hey, hey, did you see that cake My friend's polite move to stick to the wall...over there!" assuage my outrage (at them for "Look at that f---ing pork chop throwing food, and at myself for sail!" not throwing them out) was an "Heads up, here comes a jello attempt to say I was correct and cube!" proper in not causing a scene. I still had to respond, not-so-politely,
Let's wake up Notre Dame! 

"bulls---." Responsible students What the hell is the point? Are should not let food fights go bythese the new echoes cheering her without a second glance, without name? After watching a food fight, trying to stop the next one. We all who could possibly maintain that get a black eye when some turkeyNotre Dame has the greatest throws a pork chop. 
student body in the world? Great­some students
Obviously feel est at what? They'd be more likely that throwing food on the floor is a to spit on the ground. "Just a worthwhile pasttime. (i.e. spoiledbunch of spoiled kids." 
brats who have never learned the 
Is it true? I believe the majority value of food. Should I consider 

of the ND students are better than 
them spoiled men and women, or that. Still, I am at a loss to spoiled brats?) It is not as obvious,
understand how we can justify but there are other students here 
throwing food around. So how can who believe throwing food is a bad, we justify sitting and allowing
~~~~iiiiiiiiiiiii~~ii!iiiii~~~ ar1f buchwald 
sinful thing to do. We've got toWASHINGTON In dealt'ng with when we have a large dinner with a others to throw food around? 
--consume that much saccharin in his stop it, but fighting it out with
the saccharin problem I have to big gooey dessert. At the end of the Although it's been three weeks, I pancakes at 20 paces is not theconfess I am not a disinterested meal we can always put saccharin diet, and he wouldn't do it if they am still mad, not only at that stupid answer.
spectator. I have a cousin who is in our coffee and believe in our offered him something else to eat. 
black-haired, blue plaid-shirted If we are not to come to fisticuffs married to Marvin Eisenstadt, one hearts we haven't done anything In the same labs you have white jackass<wlto threw the first piece of in the dining hall, we should find
rats smoking tobacco and they're
of the owners of the company which wrong. II h y cake in the South Dining Hall, but another solution. Perhaps we couldmakes Sweet 'n Low, a powdered As far as soft drinks go, there is devel(]lping cancer a t e time. et at myself. By sitting and watching, set aside a special dining hall for allsaccharin in pink packages that can nothing that makes a person trying nobody in this country has dared to I allowed him to do it. Finally, the idiots who feel they have tobe found in restaurants, grocery to lose weight feel more noble than ban cigarettes from the market­instead of slugging him (or helping work off their "excitement" bystores and supermarkets all over drinking a diet cola with a cheese-place. You have other rats breath-the workers, or standing up for throwing something soft, warm and. this land. . burger or a hot dog with relish, ing nothing but car fumes and what I believe), I left the hall. Even mushy. Dave Bender's new studentAlthough I do not own any stock ~onions and mustard. they're dropping like flies. Yet if I couldn't have stopped the food government might look into this.
in the company, I am very proud of· Saccharine is the cocaine of there is no government effort to fight (I might have gotten in All the people who want to eat theirMarvin and tend to brag about the dieters, the mother's milk of ban autom~biles from ,the .ro~d. 
trouble, I might have made a fool of food like human beings could go torelationship. You can't imagine weight watchers, the sweet taste of The only whtte rats they re plckmg myself), at least I would have done the dining halls as usual and eatwhat a bombshell I can drop at a success. Without it there is nothing-0~ are those who _were overdosed something to stand up against what their food. People who feel theydinner party in Georgetown when I left for us but sugar, loaded with with a sugar substitute. 
I feel is sinful. 
have to throw something warm andcasually say, ..My cousin makes calories, lacking in nutrition, the If the government was reason­If the student body didn't want soft and mushy to exhibit theirSweet 'n Low." I can live off the biggest no-no on every dentist's able, they wo.uld put on each food fights, and showed they didn't raptuous joy after a big win, or anyreflected glory for the entire even-list. package 0~ Sweet 'n Low and _ev~ry wan~ food fights by shouting the time at all, could be trucked up to· 1 do not wish to dwell on the bottle of dtet cola a messa~e stmdar throwers down, by helping the Farmer Brown's pigsty. 
10~lthough Marvin is a saccharin emotional factors that make sac-to the ones they put on cigarettes. workers, or by turning in a few of Throwit.;; food is not somethingtycoon he never forgets his poor eharin an important ingredient in It co~ld r~~d: Surgeon General's these "courageous" idiots who that should nonchalantly be attri­relatives, and once a year I receive the American way of life. Let's talk Warm_ng--A recent _test showed start throwing the food (to say buted to excitement or studenta carton full of thousands of about the scientific reasons for that 1~ out of 44 white. rau: w~o nothing of the ignorant herd of rowdiness and then forgotten. Thepackets of Sweet 'n Low, with keeping saccharin off the shelves of were l:~d a fifth _of their dtet In flowers), we wouldn't have to live "people" who are throwing foodenough saccharin to kill every rat in the supermarkets. sac~hann fo.~nd It hazardous to with the embarassment of knowing know what they are doing. They areWashington. . We are told that white rats were their health. . . 
we were indeed a part of it. I students who, if they were not ableI only mention these facts be-fed saccharin equal to five percent M~ke ~0 mistake, we. dtet~rs repeat, I am ashamed I left. I am to control themselves in periods of cause I don't want the anti-sac-of their diets. This is the equivalent aren t gomg to t~ke . thts ly!ng 
ashamed to be a part of this new 
10 excitement, would not have had thecharin people to say that the reason of consuming 800 diet drinks a day down. ~f the~ persist ~anmng tradition. 
self-control or the brains necessary I wrote an article in favor of over a period of SO years. In the sacchann we II start buymg the A friend, trying to make me feel to be accepted into Notre Dame (Isaccharin was because of my cousin first generation of rodents eight of stuff from. pu~hers on street cor­better, inadvertently made me hope). We are all big boys andMarvin. the 38 rodents developed bladder ners. Mexico Is already geared up more mad. His point was that the girls now. Ifanything is to be done,The truth of the matter is that cancer and in the second genera-. to smuggle the , stuff acros~ the "poor" guy was probably drunk it will have to be done by studentswhether I was related to Marvin by tion 12 of 44 developed tumors. border. If ~e ca~ .t get our da~ly fix and didn't know (or care) what he who believe that throwing food ismarriage or not I would be against This, as far as the government of sacc:hann l~gltlmately • we II let was doing. To his comment I not· not the correct way to behave. Wethe FDA ban on this artificial scientists were concerned, was the Mafia do It for us. 
so-politely answered "Bulls---." 
have to police ourselves. 
sweetener. enough to ban the substance from So it's up to the government. Do Contrary to popular opinion, being Food fights make me lose respect For those of us who are constant-the market. they want my cousin Marvin or the drunk does not magically transform for myself and for my school. Foodly fighting weight problems sac-It was, you have to admit, a fairly Gambino family in the Sweet 'n a bad action to good. It does not fights are sick. Drunk or not,charin is our security blanket. It uneven contest. No one except a Low-business? Itbetter make up its make a bad action "cute." Being getting back at all those nuns andalleviates the guilt we all share white rat would be crazy enough to mind fast. 
drunk does not automatically ab-parents who told you to clean your plate ("Think of all the poor 
children in Afghanistan") by
**************************************** th:owing food when they not
are 

7liE !i«R£JA,zy.PES/6NII'm
~ 
around is sick. (It's also cowardly. 
IS A0711/I'Ki/F N(Jf PRO-('F
::) 
If you want to prove something to 
l/RC. PEtACOURTHAS
m 
your nuns and your parents, wait
AlREADYANN(){/NCEIJ7/IAT 
till they're around, and then throw
ffiJ 
A MA.Jf.RSYMBa/C613S­
the food.)
z 
TlR£ tfi/U 7llKE PLACE 
By doing perverted actions. the
0 IJN16iffAT 9:()()P.M. 

actor becomes perverted. This is
0 81S'!Ei~STAN/JAI?/) 
what I worry about. We should not
c / T/M5. 
allow this perversion to take place on our campus. . 
The choice is up to us. Do we want to be a part of it by not stopping it. or will we help stop food lights? If there arc some who feel th~v cannot control themselves ­and jus.! ha~-e to thn;w something ­warm .... oft and mushy. then mayhe 1\T sllllllld conlacl Farmer Brown. 
L______________ -------------------------------------------------­

Thursday, March 24, 1977 the observer 

Talks toiiisume 




Friendly relations with Hanoi -possible 
missing Americans, and rna$ zation of relationships. requested, and there certainly will when the taks will begin. 
three additional recom~endations. "I will respond immediately to be no preconditions on our part for U.S.-Vietnamese negotiations by Rlchud E. Meyer T~ey are ~~t the Umt~d Stat.es Premier Pham Van Dong that we these talks in Paris." have been held sporadically in As8oci•ted Press Writer constder add~tional maten~l asst~-accept their invitation and that A spokesman for the National Paris since the war. Woodcock said tance for Vtetnam to atd therr these discussions will commence," Security Council said the United the most recent discussions were 

WASHINGTON [AP] • President Carter announced yesterday that the United States will resume negotiations without preconditions or delay to establish friendhip and normal relations with Hanoi, its enemy in a decade of war. 
The President made public a report from his Commission on Missing in Action, which returned from a visit to Hanoi on Tuesday. The report said: "Vietnam is preparted to establish diplomatic relations with us." 
The commission, which Carter credited with establishing a bridge­head for the talks, said the Viet­namese declared it would help normal relations if the United States ends its economic blockade and drops its veto of Hanoi's entry into the United Nations. 
The commission said Laos, too, is "clearly interested in establish­ing a new and friendlier relation­ship." But there was no indication of any immediate diplomatic steps in that direction. 
The Vietnamese continue to ex­pect "a significant U.S. contribu­tion to their postwar economic reconstruction," the commission said, but appear willing to discuss it in humanitarian and moral terms instead of demanding it under peace accords. 
However, the commission said Vietnamese "almost certainly have at least some additional . . . infor­mation available" about missing Americans and ''did not provide it to the commission during its visit.'' 
"For reasons of terrain, climate, circumstances of loss and passage of time, it is probable that no accounting will ever be possible for most of the Americans lost in Indochina," the commission report said. 
The commission urged the resumption of talks, said normal relations afford the best prospect for obtai'!!_ng__!__f'J!!ler accounti_!!~of 
'Right to Life' pres~_nts abortion program at SMC 
by Maareea Rothfuss ud Jan Powley 
A small group of Saint Mary's students gathered in LeMans Hall's Stapleton Lounge Tuesday, evening to see a presentation on "Life, Love, Sex--How Does It Affect Abortion" given by four members of the Notre Dame -St. Mary's Right to Life organization. 
Vince Barbera, a Notre Dame Arts and Letters major, began the presentation by emphasizing that the approximately three million abortions that occur each year in the United States "concern every­one because they concern human life." 
The medical aspects of abortion were presented by another panel 
member, Ann Coia, a St. Mary's nursing student. She presented a slide show about fetal development and the five types of abortion. Coia also explored the controversial question of viability, the point at which a fetus is capable of inde­pendent life. 
The third panel member, Sheila Julien, spoke on psychological and sociological issues of abortion. The main psychological question dealt with was that of suicide. 
"Suicide is very rare among pregnant women, but suicides for those who have abortions are more common," Julien said.. She added that approximately one out of four women who have had abortions can never again give birth normally.. 
The sociological question Julien discussed dealt with the shortage of babies today for the many couples who wish to adopt in relation to the three million babies given up each year in abortion. 
Ann Blanford, a Notre Dame Arts and Letters major, covered the legal aspects of abortion and raised several questions concerning the Supreme Court's 1973 decision on abortion. 
Discussions followed about the morality of legal abortion and the inconsistencies between the Su­preme Court's decisions in the abortion and the Karen Quinlan cases. 
Barbera concluded the presenta­tion by reminding those present that it was a human life that was being killed in an abortion.. 

search for American remains, send Carter declared. States has not determined who will about preparations for the commis­a U.S. representative to Hanoi with "There are no ereconditions be its representative in Paris or sion's Hanoi visit. 

information about the ~ssing and 111••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••
offer technical advice ' and assis­
tance for defusing unexploded American bombs. 
Carter and Leonard Woodcock, chairman of the commission, told reporters: 
.. Because of an error, the remains of one of the 12 bodies the commission brought backfromViet­
nam belonged to a Vietnamese. Those remains are being returned 
to v~~a:mmission believes the 
rest of the 2,546 American service­
men and civilians still missing in Vietnam and Laos are dead and 
that none are being held against their will. 
. . The Vietnamese held back the remains of and information about at least two Americans, including a 
retired CIA official, until late on the last day of the commission's visit ­but the commission believes their will be no such holdbacks in the future. .. Hanoi has promised to establish "a permanent study mechanism" to pursue U.S. provided leads to the where abouts and identities of missing Americans still unaccoun­ted for. . . The commission recommends that the Vietnamese be asked to send representatives to laborator­ies in Honolulu to help with identification of MIA remains. 
Carter and Woodcock talked with reporters after meeting privately with other memb~rs of the commis­sion in the Cabinet room at the White House. Carter ~aic; the Vietnamese "suggested that we reinitiate diplomatic discussions in Paris without delay." 
The President said the invitation suggested that the talks try "to resolve the issues that might be an obstacle to peace between our two Cf)Untries and friendship between our two countries and normali-

From Ralph Bakshi, master Of animation, COmeS an
f: • d 1
eptc• antasy m won rous co or.
h 1 11
A vision of t e wor d, 10 mi ion years in the future, where Wizards rule the earth. And the powers of magic prevail 
r the £0rCeS Of techn0l0o" ffi• the
1 1

ove E:JJ
f• 1 b ttl £ ld

rna a e 1 or wor supremacy. 

20TH CENTURY-FOX PRESENTS 


A RALPH BAKSHI FILM 


UMITED 

ENGAGEMENT Color by De Luxe• STARTS 
Just South of NORTH VILLAGE MALL • (219) 277-1522 
SHOW nMES FRIDAY 


6:45-8:30-10:10 SAT & S~l 1:45-3:20-5:00­6:45-8:30-10:10 






r------­
Thursday, March 24, 1977
the observer...­
8 


Catholic Cardinal murdered in Congo 
BRAZZAVILLE* Congo Republic 
(AP) -The Roman Catholic 
primate of the Congo. one of the 
church's eight black African cardi­
nals. was kidnaped and murdered 
yesterday by three members of 
assassinated President Marien 
Ngouabi's family. the military gov­
ernment announced. 
Sources in neighboring Zaire 
said the killing of Emile Cardinal 
Biayenda, archbishop of Brazza­
ville, may have been motivated by 
tribal rivalries. The terms "fam­
ily" and "tribe" are often inter­
changeable in black Africa, and the 
Congo has had a history of tribal 
conflict since it gained indepen­
dence from France in 1960. 
The government mounted a na­
tionwide hunt for the killers of the 
cardinal and the four men who 
assassinated Ngouabi last Friday. 
In Rome, Pope Paul VI announ­
ced the ''bitter and sad news'' of 
the cardinal's death at his weekly 
ND to host seminar on management 
Contemporary management pro­
blems and solutions will be ex­
amined during a two-day confer­
ence at Notre Dame in March. Two 
lectures of public interest will be 
offered on the second day, this 
Saturday, in the Center for Contin­
uing education auditorium. 
Dr. John L. McDaniel, director of 
the U.S. Army Missile Research, 
Development and Engineering 
Laboratory at Redstone Arsenal, 
Huntsville, Ala., will discuss 
"Barnard's Theories in Practice" 
at 9 a.m. The late Chester 
Barnard, who was president of New 
Jersey Bell Telephone Co., devel­
oped an integrated theory on the 
organization which was one of the 
early "systems analysis" ap­
proaches to management and is 
now considered classic. 
Former director of the Depart­
ment of Research for the Transpor­
tation Institute, Bertram Gottlieb, 
will discuss "The Unionization of 
Middle Management" at 10:30 
a.m. An internationally known consultant on industrial relations and industrial engineering pro­jects, he has his own consulting firm, Bertram Gottlieb and Asso­ciates of Silver Spring, MD. 
The luncheon speaker will be Dr. 
Paul E. Torgersen, dean of en­
gineering at Virginia Polytechnic 
Institute and State University. 
Beginning at 2 p.m., there will be a 
panel discussion summarizing the 
review of Barnard's theory of 
organization. 
According to the conference 
director, Dr. James M. Daschbach, 
Notre Dame professor of aerospace 
and mechanical engineering, Bar­
nard's theories have often been 
overlooked in contemporary man­
agement studies. He said the 
conference brings together out­
standing management practition­
ers and academicians interested in 
classical management theory to 
rethink the basic practices. 
Entitled "Managing in the 1980's-Rethinking Classical Man­agement Theories," the meeting is cosponsored by Notre Dame's De­partment of Aerospace and Mech­anical Engineering and South Bend Chapter 124 of the American Institute of Industrial Engineers. Interested persons are asked to register upon arrival at the CCE. 


Mud volleyball sign-ups to begin 
Those interested in participating 
in this year's Mud Volleyball 
Classic for An Tostal should orga­
nize into teams to six to eight 
players. Games will begin April 3 
to determine the four teams who 
will compete in the semi-finals in 
the mud. 
Team captains can register by 
calling John (3167), Dan (3117), or 
Paula (1313) before Friday. April I. 

fat t~allY's  \.OCJCs,  
Just past  LIQUOR  
OPEN FRI. & SAT.  1\#oR\.O  
TILL MIDNIGHT  s.. ._.Awe.  

m-3111 

6 -Packs 121pk Blatz $1 • 19 12/pk Falstaff Old 12/pk Rhinelander 2'0 Chicago 12/pk old style 3n
Acaraal' in law~ WilhOUIItiW SChOOl. 
What can you do with only a bachelor's degree? 
Now there is a way to bridge the gap between an undergraduate education and a challenging. respon­sible career. The Lawyer's Assistant is able to do work traditionally done by lawyers. 
Three months of intensive training can give you the skills-the courses are taught by lawyers. You choose one of the seven courses offered-choose the city in which you want to work. 
Since 1970, The Institute for Paralegal Training has placed more than 1600 graduates in law firms, banks, and corporations in over 75 cities. 
If you are a senior of high academic standing and are interested in a career as a Lawyer's Assistant. we'd like to meet you. 
Contact your placement office for an interview with our representative. 
.Ve will visit your campus on TUESDAY, MARCH 29 
The lns;titute for Paralegc:1l Training 
235 South 171., Stre0t, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 1910., (215) 732 ·6600 
Operated by Para-Legal. Inc. 
.___,______, AC-Ov35___._,_..................... 
to establish the orde-r of justice." 
A government communique gave few details of the circumstances of Cardinal Biayenda's murder and it did not identify his alleged killers. The leader of the group alleged to have assassinated Ngouabi has been identifid as former army Capt. Barthelemy Kikadidi. 
Massamba-Debat, the former president, and a number of his associates were under arrest and general audience and asked the congregation to pray for peace in the Congo. 
The government has claimed former President Alphonse Mas­
. samba-Debat -whom Ngouabi overthrew in I 968 -confessed he was behind the plot to kill the president in a bid to regain power. Under Massamba-Debat's five­year rule, both Ngouabi and Biay­enda had time in 
Sources in the Vatican said that despite their roots in rival tribes from opposite ends of the country, Cardinal Biayenda and Ngouabi had good relations. l 
Forty per cent of the Congo's 1.3 million inhabitants are Christians, most of them Catholic. 
Cardinal Biayenda had approved of Ngouabi's Marxists and pro-So-• viet policies. In 1971 , he had said "socialism is only solution able ABOVE: A few stu,den1ts Florida LEFT: jack Wright [left], Tiedemann, and jenifer Brown defeated all comers in a drinking contest at Fort lauderdale in the "Button." (photos by Barbara Dodge) 
Rum 
$498Ot. 

Scotch 


$539at. 
Vodka 


$399Qt. 
Gin $399Qt. 
Carton 
continuing interrogation. 

Biayenda was the second high­ranking black African cleric to perish this year. Last month, the Anglican archbishop of Uganda, Janani Luwum, was arrested with two government ministers on char­ges of plotting against President Idi Amin. 
The Ugandan goverrtment said they were killed in an auto accident when one of the ministers tried t., overpower the driver taking them to detention, but many foreign groups have accused Amin of having Luwum murdered. 
In Rhodesia, the government was reported Wednesday to have stripped Irish-born Catholic 'Bish­op Donal Lamont of his citizenship and to have ordered him deported in the next few days. 
Lamont, a long-time critic of the white minority government, was convicted last year on charges of failing to report the presence of black nationalist guerrilas at a remote mission station near the Mozambiaue horder. 
need posters in a hurry? 


• • ®
•nsly·pr•nls 
the will of the printingbiz! 

100-11 x17 posters Only $10.00 
203 N. Main 5o8end· ~89-6977 
JIM BEAM 

Early Times 

Cases of Hamm's 


$589 



Cigarettes 
Miscellaneous 

Cases of Beer 
Thursday, March·24, 1977 
the observer 




Replica of Lindbergh's plane given test flight 
BURLINGTON, Wis. [AP] • "I they were still ringing from the roar minutes, Lindburgh 33 112 hours. the 1927 transatlantic flight by re­6-year-old when he learned Lind­
enacting Lindy's barnstorming bergh had crossed the Atlantic.
don't know how Lindy did it," ~ul of the plane's 135-horsepower As he landed, Poberezny said: "I Ifwe can rekindle the pioneeringPoberezny said after he test fle:w~ngine. "You can yell at the top of didn't feel like Lindy while I was up tour. 
there, but now I do." "The Lindberghs are gone; you spirit of America through thehand-built copy of Charles A. yoq_r lungs, and you can't hear simulation of such historicaldon't have heroes like that anyLindbergh's airplane, the Spirit of yourse!f over the motor," he said. 
He said the new Spirit "did 
more," said Poberezny, 56, of events, we can do a great deal toSt. Louis. "The vision isn't good," said about 8 miles per hour, plus or bril!,g our society together,'' Pober­
Poberezny, president of the Experi­Hales Corners, Wis. He said he 
reaction was to minus five," and added that slight 
His Tuesday mental Aircraft Association. "I could remember being thrilled as a exny said.
changes are needed to improve
Lindbergh's feat of flying non-stop kind of had to loo~ out the left side 
steerin~. ,---------------~-~--~----.,
from New York to Paris in 1927 and to steer. I could feel the exhaust. 
then taking his little airplane tour When Poberezny and other EAA Mar-MainPharmacy 428 N.Michigan
The carbon~monoxide in here was of 82 U.S. cities. 

bad. We're going to have to get pilots finish testing the new Spirit For the test flight, Poberezny' some air ventilation in there." of St. Louis in May, they plan· to "PARK NEXT TO MacDoaalds" stuffed 
his ears with cotton but Poberezny was in the air five observe the 50th anniversar i_
------•coUPON______ 
I GOOD NEWS 7 

I DISPOSABLE RAZORS 
$1• 


L----~J~~-------J 
BEETHOVEN COMES ALIVE AT HOWARD HALL An intimate performance by William Cerny David Basch Fr Patrick Maloney Thursday, March 24 8:00pm 
St. Mary's room selection process started this evening. After waiting in the typical long lines, the students chose their lottery numbers. (photo by Barbara Dodge) 





sleep .
Steelworker election questioned 
BUFFALO [AP] • Edward Sad­dential election, has accused seven Republic Steel Corp .. Local 2017 at lowski, the apparent loser of the Western New York locals of ballot Worthington Compressors Inc., 


cheap!
t Feb. 8 United Steelworkers' oresi-box stuffing, harassment and ob­Local 2604 at Atlas Steel Casting struction at polling places. Co. and Local 2268 at Donner The union's international tellers Hanna Coke Corp., all in Buffalo.
Hunger Coalition 
have scheduled a hearing on the charges for April 2 at the downtown 

Elkhart 1-80-90 at S.R. 19 (219) 262-3691

sponsors meal 
Statler Hilton Hotel. Campaign rulesThe ND-SMC Hunger Coalition 
Sadlowski's Chicago-based

will sponsor a vegetairan meal and organization, Steelworkers Fight 
Spotless housekeeping, quiet construction,
film at 5:30 p.m. on Sunday in the to be reformulated
Back, announced the complaints 

X-Iong double beds, wall-to-wall shag carpeting,
Regina Auditorium at St. Mary's. 
Wednesday. Allegations of election The Student Government Elec­
Color T\1, direct dial telephone, full bath, at-your­
The film, entitled "Diet for a irregularities were also filed in tion Committee wants to reformu­
door parking, individually controlled heating and
Small Planet," will be shown after about 20 other regions in behalf of late its rules and guidelines for the 
air conditioning. 

dinner. 
Sadlowski's entire slate of candi" presidential and SLC campaigns.
All are invited to attend. 
dates. The committee will consider sug-Hearings are expected to be held gestions that anyone has to offer. 
Single $10.95-$11.95/Double $13.95-$15.95
around the country through mid-Suggestions should be brought to

Young named 
April and tellers are scheduled to the Ombudsman office in LaFor­submit an official report in May. tune by tomorrow. A forum will be

Dome editor 
Unofficial returns showed Sad-held Monday at 7:30 p.m. in Greg Young, a junior from Long lowski carried the 71 locals in LaFortune theater to discuss the Beach CA, has been selected editor District 4, by a 5,555 to 4,825 suggestions. for next year's Dome. Young is an 
English-Philosophy major, and he margin over apparent national IPI••••••••••••iiiiiiliiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiil
winner Lloyd McBride. has worked on the Dome staff for The seven District 4 · locals die past three years. Young was named in Sadlowski's complaint 
ND-SMC SENIOR CLASS PRESENTS 
Production Manager for this year's 
were: Locals 2601 and 2603 at 

edition, and he has done much of Bethlehem Steel Corp.'s Lacka­the photography and the graphics wanna mill; Locan 542 at Alcas for the yearbook. 
Cutlery in Olean; and Local 1743 at 


A TIME TO REMEMBER 
SMC SCOIAL COMMISSION PRESENTS 
Senior Formal '77 
Friday, Apri I 15

OLIVER 

Ballroom Conrad Hilton Hotel,
Fri. & Sat Mar. 25 & 26 

Chicago, Ill 
BIDS ON SALE NOW

7:30 & 10:00 

LA FORTUNE BALLROOM AND LE MANS LOBBY 2 -4 pm
Regina Hall Auditorium COST $35 plus Transportation FESTIVAL SEATING 
I $1 0 Deposit Required 
11.00 Admission 

Remainder Due By April 7 


~-~.~,~~~~~~~~-~~~~~~---~~~~~~~~~~,.~-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,~,~,~~~,-~~~~=-7~~~~-~.~~llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll....illlllllllllllllll~ 
r 10 the observer Thursday, March 24, 1977 
Don't swallow your shampoo 

setts, said they tested popular 
NEW ORLEANS (AP] cosmetics bought over the counter Research for the National at stores around Boston and found Science Foundation has deter-many contained a compound known mined that many popular sham-as N-nitrosodiethanolamine, or poos, lotions and cosmetics contain NDEA. They cited other studies a compound which caused cancer which have shown that NDEA when fed to rats, a group of caused liver cancer in rats that ate chemists announced yesterday at it. the American Chemical Society The study of the cosmetics was convention. sponsored by the National Science 
"It is not possible at the pres~nt Foundation. The products were all time to assess properly the poten-lotions, shampoos, moisturizers, tial hazard to man," the research-and creams and were viewed as a ers aid. The did not identify the representative sample of that kind products tested. of product available in the area. No 
The researchers pointed out that powders were involved. studies on the cancer-causing com-Signing the report were Tsai Y. pound involved ingestion, not put-Fan, Ulku Goff, Leila Song and ting it on the skin. David H. Fine of the Thermo 
The FDA in Washington said the Electrom Research Center in Wal­agency received a copy of the tham, Mass., and G.P. Arsenault research report Tuesday and will and Klaus Biemann of the Depart­evaluate it. The group of six ment of Chemistry at the Massa­researchers, all from Massachu-chusetts Institute of Technology. 
ND professor 

arrested 
[continued from page 1] were meeting with undercover customs agents, including one posing as a mechanic to examine two of the cars. ·Wilson said that officials seized three cars at the time of the arrests in Chicago and got six more in Kalamazoo. Plati received a doctoral diploma in 1970 from Facolto di Arch del Politecnico di Torino in Turin, Italy and a master's degree in 1971 from Sy-racuse University. "I hope the matter gets cleared up soon. It's bad for everybody," Richardson said. "But it really came as a shock. It seemed that he always had everything going for 
h. ..
tm. 
GRIFFON 

House vote stings labor 




GAMING T'OURNAMENTS 
IN CIIESS & BACKGAMMON (BEGINS APRIL 2) DUNGE10NS &DRAGONS 
Mon-Thurs  10am-7pm  Fri &.Sat  IOam··IOpm  
1 21A S. Michi  an  South Bend  287-5533  
.•.  ~  

WASHINGTON (AP) -The House narrowly defeated a bill expanding the picketing powers of construc­tion workers last night, giving organized labor a stinging defeat in its first attempt to push key goals in the new, heavily Democratic Congress. 
The vote against the measure was 217 to 205. 
Conservatives had lambasted the bill as a grab for power by unions, an opening wedge for further labor legislation such as repealing state's authority to pass right-to-work laws. 
Labor had claimed the bill mere­ly restored to construction workers equal rights to picket their entire work site as other union members can do. 
Before the vote, House Speaker Thomas P. O'Neill, D-Mass., had chided organized labor for coming on too late to counter a well-finan­ced, all-out campaign by conserva_-­tives against the bill. 
The House had watered down the measure before taking the final vote. 
The bill would permit a striking union to shut down an entire construction site by picketing all entrances. 
Under current law, construction unions are allowed to picket only one gate at a work site. Workers belongingto other unions can con­tinue construction by entering a different entrance to avoid crossing a picket line. 
The bill would limit the picket­ing, however, to prevent interfer­ence with the normal work activit­ies at an industrial plant or such 
BOOKSTORE 

Tolkien Figures 

other entities as hospitals, schools or hotels where additional facilities are being constructed. Only the construction site itself and the workers involved in that activity could be picketed. 
The chief sponsors of the bill, led by Rep. Frank Thompson Jr., D-N.J., worked out a compromise on the House floor to win over liberal Republicans when the head count proved the vote was too close to call. 
The compromise, offered by Rep. Ronald A. Sarasin, R-Conn., would cut the bill back to the version agreed on by Congress a year ago -the version ultimately vetoed by then-President Gerald R. Ford. 
The Sarasin compromise passed by a vote of 246 to 177. 
But Republicans forced through amendments substantially weaken­ing the bill even before voting on the Sarasin compromise. 
The amendments would exempt most residential housing construc­tion projects and would exempt all projects currently under way or under contract at the time the bill was signed into law. 
President Carter is staying out of the fray, saying he will sign the measure if it reaches him but will not actively work for its passage. 
The full Senate Human Resour­ces Committee will take up the bill next Tuesday. Conservatives have threatened to conduct a filibuster on the Senate floor in an attempt to kill the measure. 
Your Source for the Unusual in Diamonds and Precious Gems Platinum' and Gold Jewelry 
You'll find untold treasures of the finest quality brought to you by the eye of an expert.* And sold with the care of a professional.* 

Insurance appraisals and purchases of fine diamonds and estate jewelry provided. 
*Graduate Gemologist: Gemological Institute of America *Fellow Gemmologist: Gemmological Association of Great Britain 
*B.A.: Indiana University Lobby St. Joseph Bank Building 
South Bend, Indiana Telephone: 287-1427 John M. Marshall's 

COiamond 9mpont Company 
Your Source for the Unusual 
....... ,.....
• .­
SPEED READING COURSE 


TO BE TAUGHT IN 
ELKHART/SOUTH BEND 
The United States Reading Lab is offering their famous speed reading course to a limited number of qualified people here in the Elkhart/South Bend area. The average person who completes this course can read 10 times faster, and with substantially improved comprehension and better concentration. 
This famous course has taught many thousands of people to read over 1000 words per minute with the ability to understand and retain what they have read much more effectively. Average graduates can read most novels in less than one hour. 
For complete details about this famous speed reading course, be sure to attend one ofthe free one hour orientation lectures that have been scheduled. These lectures are open to the public, above age 13 (persons under 18 should be accompanied by a parent, if possible) and the course will be explained in complete detail, including class schedules, instruction procedures and a tuition that is much less than similiar courses. 
These meetings will be held in Elkart at the Y.M.Y.W.C.A. Complex. 200 East Jackson on Wednesday, March 23 at 6:30p.m. and again at 8:30p.m., Thursday, March 24 at 6:30p.m. and again at 8:30p.m., Friday, March 25 at 6:30p.m. and again at 8:30p.m., Saturday, March 26 at 10:30 a.m. and again at 1:30 p.m., Monday. March 28 at 6:30p.m. and again at 8:30p.m. South Bend meetings will be held in Madeleva Classroom Building. Room 247. at St. Mary's College on Wednesday, March 23 at 6:30p.m. and again at 8:30p.m., Thursday, March 24 at 6:30p.m. and again at 8:30p.m. Friday, March 25 at 6:30 p.m. and again at 8:30 p.m. and TWO FINAL MEETINGS on Saturday. March 26 at 10:30 a.m. and again at I :30 p.m. and. Monday. March 28 at 6:30p.m. and again at 8:30 p.m. 
Classes are limited and class places will be tilled on tirst come-tirst set"Ve basis only. Be sure to attend the earliest meeting possible to insure a clas~ place. Group rates arc available upo;1 request. 
Thursday, March 24, 1977 
.the observer 1 1 
Supreme Court overturns murder conviction 
by Richard CarelU Associated Press Writer 
WASHINGTON (AP) -A sharply divided and unusually emotional Supreme 'Court, ignoring prosecu­tors' attacks on the Miranda rule, overturned the murder conviction yesterday of an Iowa man who had led police to the body of a young murder victim. 
The justices voted S-4 that Robert Anthony Williams was un­fairly convicted because police effectively denied him the right to have an attorney present during questioning. 
The case held great interest for law enforcement officials and civil Jeberty lawyers because Iowa pros­ecutors had used it to attack. one of the Supreme Court's mo~t contra.-· he called the search for truth. versial decisions, the Mtranda ru­Turner said a degree of trickery ling. and deceit should be premitted in 
Handed down in 1966 by the police interrogation as long as it's liberal-dominated court under for­aimed at getting to the truth. mer Chief Justice Earl Warren, the Twenty-two states filed briefs Miranda decision told police that a with the high court in support of criminal suspect in custody must be Iowa's argument. 
informed of his rights to be The court's decision, however, represented by an attorney and to discussed only fleetingly the Mir­remain silent. anda doctrine and focused instead on Williams' constitutional right to
The current court's more conser­be represented by an attorney.

vative makeup under Chief Justice Williams, 25, was arrested inWarren Burger has restricted use Davenport, Iowa, for the murder ofof the Miranda doctrine, and many 10-year-old Pamela Powers of Deslegal experts believed the court Moines on Christmas Eve 1968.

would use Williams' case to scuttle Williams surrendered to policeit completely. 

after becoming a suspect in the Indeed, Iowa Atty. gen. Richard young girl's disappearance and 
Turner urged the court to do so, was advised of his rights. Follow­arguing that Miranda stands as an ing the advice of a court-appointed unneccessary obstruction in what attorney in Davenport, Williams 
chose not to answer any questions 
put to him by police. Police officers promised the at­
Educators to attend 
torney that Williams would not be questioned during a car ride back

social studies conferencE~ 
to Des Moines. During that trip a 
"Human Rights and Human Responsibilities" is the theme for a meeting of the Indiana Council for the Social Studies tomorrow and Saturday in the Center for Contin­uing Education. Sessions will be attended by several hundred edu­cators on the elementary, second­ary and college levels. 
Topics to be covered at the daylong sessions include "Inter­
, preting the Social Studies Move­ment," "Decision Making for Con­sumers," "The Right to Learn ­The Responsibility to Teach." "Global Studies: An Alternate World," "Teaching Economics in American History,'' ''Controversy. Academic Freedom and Local De­cision Making," and others. 
Speakers include Charles F. Crutchfield of the Notre Dame Law School, "The Teaching of Street Law"; Dr. Thomas R. Swartz, director of the Notre Dame Center for Economic Education, "Indiana Tax Reform -1977"; and Patrick Horsbrugh, environics professor, who will discuss "Human Condi­tions in Crisis: Ultimate or Assumed Rights, Imposed or Ac­
NEW USTINGS!!! LAST 0-C MEETING TONITE. 7:30 LA FOR­TUNE. 

I EUROPE-WORLDWIDE academic discounts year round S.A.T.A. 4228-First, Tucker, Ga. 30084 (800)1241-9082. 
I --------------­
I 
NEED TYPING? Executary Inc. Professional Typing Service $.85 a page. 232-0898. 
I 
Logan Center Volunteers: Field trip to Museum of Science and Industry, I 
Sat. 8:30a.m. to 6:30p.m. We need lots of old and new volunteers. Any questions: Sue Maude 277-1182 or·I Jim Scott 287-3975. 
I 
Will teach you flute in your spare 
time. Call Beth 8112. 
I 
A~;~t;~.;tt;i~-:-,;-,;-o;;;;o.
~~~~-_!~~..:._~_:_~~..!_~~ 
California Street String Band for1hoedowns, parties, dances. Call 288-7732.
I ATTENTic)N-;-MoviN'G-c>=cn MEETING TONITE 7:30 LITTLEI THEATRE, LA FORTUNE. 
I FOR RENT 
I 5 bedroom house, real nice, large 
I 
I 
living room and kitcl1en, fully fur­nished, dose to campus, has burglar alarm,CaiiChartieMoore272-7180. 
I 
I 
I 
4 bedroom house, furnished and fully carpeted in 1976. $340.00 per month. Gas and electric not included 914 Grandview. Near Colfax School on LWW. Call 288-7894 anytime. Terry Brown 
I 
Two bedroom house to rent. Sum­mer and-or sdlool year. 1012 Eddy I 
Street. $120 mo. plus utilities. Call Oddies Harris at 232-8563. 
I 
4 bedrooms, living room, dining room, kitchen. Utilities paid. $100 
per month. Call Oscar 233-1850. 
I 
I Rent my upstairs. $40.00 per month. Call 233-1329. ·' 
I 
Rooms for rent this summer Veryreasonable, and just a few blocks 
detective engaged Williams in a ference banquet tomorrow night. conversation that the detectives Dr. William Eagan, associate pro­
later conceded was aimed at estab­
fessor of business administration, 

lishing his guilt and discovering the will participate in sessions dealing 
girl's body. He led officers to the with the adult criminal justice 
body during the trip. 
system and controversy groups. 

The court's majority opinion, Other speakers represent Pur­
written by Justice Potter Stewart, due, University of Indiana, Indiana 
says the police officer's successful State, Ball State, state education 
but illegal questioning resulted in 
offices and several high school and evidence that should not have been elementary school offices. John allowed during Williams's trial. Harrold, acting president of the co 
As a result of yesterday's decis­
unci), will preside at the opening ion, Williams, an escapee from a ••• 
and closing sessions. 

mental hospital at the time of the
1968 murder, could be released 



MICHIANA DEMANDS IT! SMASH 
U.S. 31 NORTH 277 1522 

HELD OVER 7THWEEK! 
THE FUN 


BONNIE AND Ql'DE 
STARTS 

11IEYAim 
Weekdays 
-7:30-9:30 

GEORGESEGAL
Sat-Sun :45-3:35-5:25­
JANEFONDA
7:30-9:40 p.m 



"FUNWITH DICK&JANE" 
Excellent 4-6 bedroom houses in fine neighborhoods. On & off River­side drive. Contact Mr. Gatto 234­6688. 
Furnished 4-bedroom house for rent next September. Phone 277-3604. 
Wanted! Summer renters. 5-bed­
room house. Good locale-excellent condition. Rent negotiable. Call 8436. (Watch for upcoming an­nouncements.) 
LOST AND FOUND 
Found a calculator in the Engin-· eering Auditorium on Wednesday before break. 1136. 
Lost-black and brown mixed Collie and Shepard. 8 mos. 60 lbs. 287­
7
~Med~---bl-ue_s_k•· -,.ac-k-et_w_•_th-an--,.n-s·•de 
pocket. Think lost in the vicinity of the bars. Call 4184 SMC Ziggy 
Found: One puppy around Lewis 
~~~~~~!._:________ 
Lost: 5 subject spiral notebOOk. Green. Please call 8686. 
Lost: Sapphire ring between 01 and North Quad. Sentimental value. Call Mary Beth 4-5470. 
WANTED 
Ride to Chicago Friday afternoon. Call Eileen 8008. 
Need ride to & from Ft. Lauderdale area for Easter break. Can leave Wed. Will help with expenses. Please contact Cris 4-4983 or Beth 4-4992. 
Need ride to NYC area to leave April 4th or 5th. Share driving and expenses. Call 8820. 
Wanted: Married student couple 
(one child okay) to live in, and be 
companions to 3 teenage boys. 
Room and board in exchange. 
Would be required to cook family 
dinner, do light housework and do 
minor house repairs. Exdlange ref­
erences. Call 288-1411 or 291-1814. 
Ask for Joan. 

Riders to Chicago. suburbs-WEST (Wheaton). Leaving Saturday after­noon, returning early Sunday after­noon. Call 8042. 
FOR SALE 

For Sale: Guitar . Gibson SG, 
Walnut finish, excellent condition, 
great action, Bixby piece. Call Jim 
3232. 

For Sale: Yamaha guitar FG160, new last June, seldom used, call Dick Hockman, Moreau 7735. 
For Sale: '74 Vega, good condition, low mileage, best offer. Call 8347. 
For Sale: 1973 Pontiac LeMans, power steering, power brakes, air conditioning . triple white -56;000 
~i~~~l!.:.O_:_~~~~~~-­
For Sale: '74 FonJ Elite, dark blue with white vinyl roof, AM-FM stereo, air, power steering and brakes, rear defroster, 351 V-8. $3,250 or best offer. Call 272-9895. 
Ne~:-;;;~;:-;:;;;;d-Mi.:;n'd35-;;;m 
DX-3 F 1.8 Lens. Call Dan 3315. 
PERSONALS 

Hank, Long time no see. G & C 
Mom & Dad in Ft. Laud -Thanks again for putting up with all of us! It was great!!! Pat, Nan, Beth, Carol, Pat, Dan, Jim 
Thanks for the afternoon delight in ·Florida. John 
M. Beverly (I. B.W.) Is it true that you and Eric banged the night away? 
Ziggy, Are you going to the Cava­nagh formal? Ree 
Kevin, Pat, Danny, J.D.• Chris, 
John. Frodo, Packy, Nod, Wild 
Man, Ken, Old Man. Joe, Billy, 
Wolffie (and P.R. for his "activi 
ties" that kept us well entertained!) 
Let's get together again soon for 96 
hotdogs and all the Busch you ever 
want to see in your lite! Here's to 
Lauderdale!! Love from Rm. 8 at the 
PALM PLAZA 
pending a new trial. The Supreme Court ordered that any release, however, be postponed for 60 days to give Iowa officials a chance to decide if they want a new trial or to take some other measures. 
Ifa new trial is held, prosecuters will not be able to use the incriminating statements Williams made to the police detective during the car trip and will not be able to tell jurors that Williams led police to the young girl's body. 
In varying degrees of passion, the court's four dissenters Wed­nesday launched blistering attacks at the majority. 
Burger, in a dissent speaking only for himslef, said the majority opinion yielded a "bizarre result." 
''The result reached by the court in this case ought to be intolerable in any society which purports to call itself an organized society," Bur­ger said. "It mechanically and blindly keeps reliable evidence from juries." 
Burger appeared intense as he read parts of his lengthy dissent from the bench. "Williams is guilty of a savage murder of a small child, no member of the court contends he is not,'' the dissent said. 
The dissent written by Justice Byron R. White and joined by Justices Harry A. Blackmun and William H. Rehnquist called the case's result "utterly senseless." 
The strongly worded dissents were enough to spark a retort by Justice Thurgood Marshall in an opinion concurring with the major­ity decision. 
"I doubt very much that there is any chance a dangerous criminal will be loosed on the streets, the blood-curdling cries of the dissents notwithstanding," Marshall said. 
Tony's 




Shoe Shop 
NOW TILL END OF SCHOOL 

15% off 
on all heel 
& soles repairs Reliable, Convient , Quick Service Hours Sam -Spm m

llume r=lix.... 
lll•lillllililiiliflillili·~~·········rl 
FRI 7 :00-9 :30 SAT-SUN 2:00-4:30-7:00-9:30 MON-THURS 7:00-9:15 
IT'S TBE MOST RILABIOUS SUSPENSE RIDE OF YOUR UFE! 
Need a friend? ND~SMC Hotline 4-4311 open nights. 
Larry, Thanks for the good time in Florida. You've got the cutest blue eyes I've ever seen. Love, Mary from Ole Miss 
1 E Dillon, That's abuse hurled your way! Typist 
Attn. Farley-Vote Mary Lou Walsh Barb "Buelah" Berhalter this Thursday! 
All, Here's your personal. It's up to you to make sure it gets up on the door. G 
Peter Davidson · here's a personal expecially for you. 
Quick as a dodo is coming. 
He-;,-D-;~~~~Yo~~~~-;-;two 
scoop cone!! Tee-Hee! 
The Quickie will run this Saturday night. Usual times and places. Info call 7638. 
;;tL.;;;-.;;-~.:;.;-;~;a-;;;;-­
BE YOURSELF FOR A CHANGE. GAY COMMUNITY OF NOTRE DAME, PHONE 8870, FRIDAY 
AND SATURDAY NIGHTS 10-12. ALSO, P.O. BOX 206, NOTRE DAME, IND., 46556. 
ALUMNI-LYONS HAPPY HOUR FRIDAY, 3-6 P.M. AT THE Ll-BRARY. 
You can't miss quick as a dodo. 
James W. Ladner, Jr. (1774), Rag, rag, rag! We can't even insult your fair skin, but you can still make our beds! Oh, by the way, Happy Birthday. 218 , 
P.S. Do you know the bus schedu1e. 
Dear Joe, Ellie and the Electras need a manager. We figure you'd be great for the job since you ride so well in cars. We'll pay you in Milano Cookies and Ring Dings. How about it? Love, Patty, Dolores, Erin, Ellen, and Murph 
Dear Jim, Happy Birthday! Hope its just wonderful. Love. Barb 
P.S. Weird, huh? 
If only they knew she had the 
power. 



CAR~IE 
FRI 7:45-9:4t ~' (!!] 
SAT-SUN I :45-3:45-5:45-7:45-9:45 MON-THURS 7:15-9:15 

Classified Ads 
The Sorin Hall Porch Committee is pleased to announce halter top season is approaching. watch for details. 
To On-Frizz, Boone, Diddler, Bo-Bo, Beach Baby, Hades, Knee-high Scum, Reemer, Rah-rah, Burbles, ':zak-o, P.B.T.C. senior Tripper, Carolina and Richter . Thanks muchoforall the good times and the good work. We'll miss you all. The New Kids 
·Tothe-H~tte~N~~;;:l;-Farley
and Hillsboro, much love from Stick· In-The-Mud. 
Is anyone interested in a "cookie toast"?? 
G'r;-:-~~;:;;;;-1;;.,--;-;J.;;;-;~;;;f,.ll 
be the best Dome. Jan 
Kath, Roses are red, Violets are blue, What more can be said, Bear, I love you! 
Joyce Anne Johnson . Alias "The Raquette Jockette" . Alias "The Exotic Dancer of Dreamland": Hap-PY 20th, dearest! Just think, in 5 years you'll be stationed in Outer Mongolia having your back peeled I 
I 

congratulations on 20 years of successful social butterflying . good luck for 80 more! Love, kisses, and 
I 

love pats (a Ia SJM) from Pam, sue, Maria, and Mary Anne. P.S. Eaten 
I 

any mushrooms lately? Bad for the chin, you know! P.S.S. Happy 
I 

Birthday, Bunny! 
I 

Dear Cinderella: We'll let. you go at midnight as long as your sock drawer doesn't need rearranged 
I 

until after we graduate. Happy Birthday, Don 
I 

What is the Sierra Club? 
I 

Hey Sexy• 1 miss your bod and voice, too!. J 
I 

______""________ 


-'~~~~~~~~-~~~~~~~~-~~-------~----------------· 

Thursday, March 24, 1977
12· the observer 




Irish fencers duel for NCAA title 
fell short during the NCAA's. A 
by Paul Stevenson major factor in the loss was the 

Sports Editor NCAA regulation requiring the use of a three man team instead of a 

Notre Dame is hosting the 1977 nine man squad.
NCAA Fencing Championships 

Mike Sullivan finished third in 
whichbeginstoday and run through the NCAA Tournament last year.

Saturday. There are 55 different The sabre performer will be highly

schools competing in this annual challenged by Wayne State's Yuri 

event, a tournament which found Rabinovitch in this year's competi­

the Irish finishing third last year. 

tion. Rabinovitch has dealt 
The Fighting Irish are coming off Sullivan his only two career losses. 

their second consecutive unde­Dualing for the epee champion­

feated season with a 23-0 ledger ship will be seven out of eightthis year and a winning streak returning finalists from last year's

which reaches 67. The Notre Dame NCAA's. Two returning finalists fencers have also won their third will be competing in the foil. 

consecutive Great Lakes Tourna­"I think each one of our entrants ment, an event which was held has a very good chance to win their 

here at du lac March 11 and 12. 

individual champsionships,'' The Irish will enter a strong team DeCicco admitted. "But this is afeaturing Tim glass in the Epee, premier fencing meet and the level Pat Gerard in the foil and Mike of the competition improves each Sullivan in the sabre. 
year. There's no question this willThe Irish trio boast impressive be one of the hardest fought 
season records entering the 

tournaments in NCAA history andNCAA's. Glass, a senior who we're just delighted to be hosting itfinished fourth in the 1975 and six 
here."
in last year's NCAA Champion­The opening ceremonies beganships, is a two-time All-American. 

this morning at 8:30 a.m. FtrstThe senior epee specialist has Edward "Moose" Krause, poses with Junior round finals will be held tomorrowlogged a 160-26 mark during his Olympic Champions Pat Gerard and Tim starting at the same time. Thefour year career at Notre Dame. Glass. These Irish fencers alon1g with Mike awards ceremony will be on Satur­
Glass is coming off an impressive medal winner at the this year's individuals will fence. If we fenced Notre Dame's run for the nation­day at 3:30 p.m. All of the Great takes Tournament (GLT) Great Lakes Tournament. on a nine man basis, I'd! like to say al title last year was doused in activities will be held in the 
victory, the second conselcutive Although having phenomenal we'd be favored to win, but the Pennsylvania. NYU emerged vic­fieldhouse of the Athletic and 
GLT gold medal win for the Irish seasons at Notre Dame, Head national championship is really up t<lrious with 79 points, followed by Convocation Center. 
fencer. Coach Mike DeCicco's teams have for grabs." Wayne State (77 pts) and Notre Sullivan, who earned All-never won a national champion­Dame with (76 pts.). Nyu's America honors last year as a ship. Behind the performance of Notre Dame is definitely a tour­winning trio from last year's NCAA 
*Observer

freshman, has built an increcible these top three Irish fencers, Notre nament contender, however, the championship team return this year 100-2 won-lost record during his wo Dame will be looking to chane that list of schools includes many other in hopes of repeating last season's years as the Irish main sabre record. talented fencing squads. Pennsyl­performance. specialist. The sophomore was a "The NCAA Championships are vania, Wayne State, NYU, Prince­The Irish had defeated both 
Sports
1976 GLT gold medal winner and unlike anything we've done all ton and Penn State figure to be Wayne State and NYU in regular finished second in the tournament year," DeCicco commented. "Us­puting the pressure on the Irish. season competition last year, but this year. ually we are a nine man team, but 


Gerard has compiled a 36-2 the championships permit only a ledger this season, boasting his three man team. Therefore, our overall won-lost standing to 115-16. won-loss record is not as meaning­
Tracksters move outdoors 
The junior foil star was a gold ful as to how each of our threeGreg Solman =·=:===================:==========:========:=;=;=~=;;:;:;:;::=~=;=;=:===:=:===:===:==::::::;::=::=•=:=:::::;::=::-by Bill Delaney finish at the end of the indoor Among those on the injury list 
Sports Writer· campaign, and his performance are co-captain Jim Reinhart, out 
down at Alabama could be a with ankle problems; JayM'trandaa 
Joe Piane and his Irish Trackmen pleasant addition for the 1976 NCAA qualifier in the 800 
began their outdoor season on an program." meters, with knee problems; and 
individually promising note during Freshman Kenny Lynch and Bill Allmindinger, a touch middle 
the midsemester break with a Marc Novak garnered third nd man recuperating from a broken 
After watching what was perhaps the biggest college hockey upset of sixth-place finish in the Alabama fourth-place finishes respectively, foot. -the year, it was hard not to agree with what Scholastic Sports Editor Invitational. with Lynch taking fourth in the 200 "If we could get back any one of Tom Kruczek had observed. It was truly a classic case of a team that "The entire week was just great meters (22.32), and Novak fin­these runners, then I'd have to sayhad gone out "not to lose" instead of "to win". for us in preparing for the outdoor ishing third in the 10,000 meters that we could go up against anyone
It was indeed a disparaging loss, not only for the players, but for the season,'' explained the second year (32:25.18). Sophomore Steve and do well,'' confided Piane. 
fans. Amidst the grumblings and mutterings that inevitably coach. "Just leaving all the cold Welch and VanderKraats finished "Hopefully, Reinhart and 
accompany defeat at this school, one could almost see the focus of weather back in South Bend was second and fourth in the 500 Allmindinger will be ready for 
attention shift to football as the Gophers' ninth goal was scored. quite a relief to the guys." meters, with times of 14:39.1 and Dlinois." 
Back in the blustery days of October the sports headlines of The The break appeared to be just 14:41.9 respectively. 
Until tomorrow... 

Notre Dame begins its gruelingObserver heralded this year's season as the "Do or Die" one. In one the needed remedy for the Thin­With Alabama over, the Irish schedule April 2 against lliinois, sense, I'm sure the sport would have gained a larger following had they clads, as a Notre Dame record and Cindermen are now preparing for Chicago Track Oub and Chicagowon the NCAA tournament, or even finished first in the WCHA. several personal bests we:e re­the remainder of the outdoor Circle at Champaign. The fol­Indeed, even here at sport's Emerald City. our famed fan support can corded at Tuscaloosa. Sophomore season. 
lowing weekend, the Irish travel tobe substantially increased by an occasional winner. Whether or not the distance man Dennis VanderKraats "We'll becompetingevery week-. 
Jonesboro for the Arkansas StateMarch eleventh loss to the Gophers will destroy hockey, Coach Lefty set the school record in the 300 end from the Illinois meet until Invitational.
Smith or the players remaining for next year's squad is something I meter steeplechase with a showing final exams, so we need to know "We've certainly set up a veryseriously doubt. of9:03.9, eclipsing Ed Dean's mark who will be able to help us this competitive schedule for ourselves, With the likes of Jack Brownschidle, Dukie Walsh, Alan Karsnia, of 9:04.8 set in 1966. spring," confessed Piane. "We've but we need the competition if wePaul Oarke, Clarke Hamilton and Roger Bourque, to name a few, up "We were very pleased by had some terrible luck with injuries are going to further the progranl:,"forthe Ed McGauley Memorial Award for outstanding senior, it is Dennis's performance, he ran one this year both in the fall and now. I explained Piane. "I think that WJthalmost inevitable that next season will be termed a "building year". of the best races he ever has," said just pray that we'll be able to get a little time and patience, we'll beThe phrase sends shivers down the spines of sports fans worldwide. Piane. "Dennis had a fine fall most of the guys back out as soon able to bring Notre Dame Track to a"Building years" end up "boring years" that feature, among other season, just missing qualifying for as possible to provide a balanced level competitive with everyone."
things, teams floundering in a slough of erratic play. players the NCAA's in Cross Country, and attack.'' 
sometimes having outstanding individual seasons and teams that go it appears that he's continuing a 
nowhere despite these performances. Despite this, one can't help fine full year of competition." 
think positively about the program, and its future. Sophomore Joe Strohman achi­
Instead of looking at the "leaving" list, why not examine the eved a personal best in the 1500 
"coming back" list for a change? You'll see Dan Byers, Dick Howe, meters, with a time of 3:55.59, 
John Friedmann and Don Jackson as being among those back on equivalent to a 4:13 traditional 
defense. In the scoring department, there's Geoff Collier, Steve mile. Strohman's performance 
Schneider, Kevin Nugent, Doi:ny and Terry Fariholm, Bob Baumgart­gained a third-place finish for the 
ner, Brian Burke, Kevin Nagurski, Tom Michalek and Ted Weltzin, Irish with his run. 
among others. "We've been counting on Joe to 
And then there's Greg Meredith, who in my book will develop into help us with the depth he gives us 
the best pro hockey prospect in the history of the school. in the long distance events," 
In the nets, there will be Iitle change. The WCHA's second and explained Piane. He had a strong 
third best goalies. John Peterson and Lenny Moher. will still wear 
Notre Dame uniforms. Don't be surprised if a freshman named Greg Polo meeting
Rosenthal doesn't get a start or two, either. 

There will be an organizational
Perhaps most promising is the fact that recruiting should improve 
meeting for all those interested in
this year considerably. Smith's team probably received more national 
the water polo team tonight at 7
attention than it has in years before. If that's not enough, recruiting 
p.m. in the LaFortune lobby. For
prospects will note that the Irish hockey program is on the upswing, 
further information contact Bill
while many long and established programs took a turn for the worse Scott at 8248.
last season. In addition, Notre Dame's not the worst place in the world 
to be a varsity athlete. 

Reising named
The last game of this sca~on will live in the memories of next year's players. The silence anddespondencyin the locker room after the game 
Laurie Reising. a Notre Dame 
betrayed that fact graphically. The Irish may not finish that strongly in 
junior from Mr. Prospect, II.. has 
the WCHA and may still lose in the playoffs again next year. However. 
been appointed Women's Sp<~rts .,
the players' last hitter defeat will he a haunting reminder that in the Editor of The Observer. Rc1stng
world of ~port'> you're never a\surcd of victory until the final buzzer has prcviou sly served as a_ spo~ts .·~ 
has '>oundcd. writer and will he resp<ms1hlc lor tt 
And the muttncd lockn room words of the eternal optimist. Lenny the coverage of Notre Dame and St. . Moher. n·rnirul 11'-thai thl'n· will indeed he a '"next year"'. Mary·., women" s sporh. 
Ted Burgmeier and the rest of the Irish track team prepare to open the spring season. 












