
server 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's 
Monday, April 18, 1977

Vol. XI, No. 113 
An Tostal activities to begin Wednesday 
by Mark Perry fish swallowing and a dunking 
Staff Reporter booth will be featured, along with a jail where a friend can be deposited for only 25 cents. To break out, the 
The schedule of events for An "prisoner" must either pay SO Tostal weekend, to begin this cents or volunteer for the pie­Wednesday, has been announced throwing booth. A twenty-one and by Keefe Montgomery and Tina over party will be held at the SMC Sordyl, co-chairpersons in charge Clubhouse, and sometime during of An Tostal. the day 500 ping pong balls will be 
An Tostal, which was derived dropped from an airplane. Anyone from the Gaelic festival celebrating who grabs a ball with a number on the coming of spring, is entering its it will win a prize. tenth year, and the weekend has At 9:30p.m. the "Mr. Campus" been expanded from three to five contest will be held on the porch of days. Sorin Hall. Montgomery said that 
With sign-ups for each event there is a good chance that Presi­going well and everything running dent Jimmy Carter will appear on as planned, Montgomery and Sor­campus sometime during this dyl said they expect a thrilling event, since he is attending a weekend, which reportedly may be conference in the Midwest and may highlighted by a guest appearance stop to visit Father Hesburgh. by President Jimmy Carter. Bruce Jenner and Farrah Fawcett­
An Tostal will begin on "Wicked Majors were also invited, but have 
Calling them the "heart of the planning process," Fr. Theodore Hesburgh introduced the Wednesday," April 20, with the not replied, Montgomery said. coordinators of the Campaign for Notre Dame fund drive at a news conference last Friday. Left to Irish Wake Happy Hour. The Activities for "Frivilous Friday", rightthey are: james Frick, Paul Foley, Edmund Stephan, Hesburgh, john T. Ryan and Ernestine 
festivities will begin at Fat Wally's April22, will begin at 12:30 p.m. in 
Carmichael. [Photo by Paul Clevenger] 
from 2 p.m. to 5 p.m. with all the front of Alumni Hall, highlighted beer you can drink offered to by an attempt to break the record of Campaign for ND everyone who has Happy Hour stuffing 32 people in one car. Also tickets, along with two mixed scheduled are: egg toss, jello toss, drinks for the price of one and $1 4-man sack race, keg toss, blind­off on a pitcher ·of beer. Then from folded football kicking, and a
Enthusiasm spurs pledges 
6 p.m. to 9 p.m. Corby's and frisbee throw. 
Marti Hogan of the goal, had been collected in dent for public relations and devel-Bridget McGuire's will offer two Then at 4 p.m. an Impersonation Maureen Flynn pledges; over $15 million of that opment at Notre Dame; Paul Foley, beers or mixed drinks for the price Contest will be held in front of was pledged or contributed by the chairman of the Committee on of one. Alumni. In the event of rain, the 
Notre Dame's "esprit de corps" Board of Trustees. Edmund Public Relations and Development "Gentle Thursday," April 21, contest will be moved to the was highly-visible last weekend as Stephan, director of the University of the Board of Trustees; Stephan will begin with the Trivia Bowl to Engineering Auditorium. hundreds of alumni, trustees and Board of Trustees, sees an "enor-and workers from the National be held on the South Quad in front From 9 p.m. to 12:30 p.m., friends arrived on campus to kick mous change in the interest and Campaign Committee. One alum­of Alumni Hall. Contestants will be Recess 103 will be held inside off the biggest fund drive ever involvement'' of the Board in this nus and campaign worker commen­asked trivia questions, and the Stepan Center. Bicycle races, attempted by a Catholic university, campaign and states that the Board ted, "I'm sure the invasion of winners of each heat will win a ice-cream eating, jacks, clay moul­the Campaign for Notre Dame. "has great confidence in its (the Europe was less well-planned." prize and advance to the finals, ding, baby powder fights and other 
"It's the most important thing campaign's) success." From now until October the where a prize will also be offered to childish activities will be offered, that has ever been done at this The initial stages of the actual National Campaign Committee, un­the champion. and cartoons will be shown. University," Reverend Theodore campaign began in January 1976 der the direction of Ryan and At 3 p.m. and 5 p.m. the Emmett A "Sleep-Out" will then be held Hesburgh, University president, when the University used a unique Carmichael, will concentrate on Kelly Jr. Circus will perform at on the North Quad beginning at told a crowd of almost 400 Friday at approach termed "the fly-in." In a major gifts -$50,000 to $100,000 -Saint Mary's. Animal acts, high 11:30 p.m. Everyone is invited to 
the opening luncheon in the ACC series of 20 weekends, 120 friends from individuals, corporations and thrills acts, and clowns will high­bring down their tents and sleeping concourse. The drive, Hesburgh of Notre Dame were flown in for a foundations. It already has 400 light the show. Admission is SO bags, and soft music will be played said, surpasses all athletic contests cents. to rock everyone to sleep.
weekend on campus to observe how prospective contributors lined up.Notre Dame has ever participated the University was progressing at The campaign will run for five From 6:30 p.m. to 8:30 p.m. "Sunny Saturday", begins at 6 in. And he is confident that the the present time and to learn the years, and contributors will have several events will be held in front a.m. with the "Superstars" compe­drive will be a success. "hopes and aspirations" of Notre [continued on page 7] of O'Lau~hlin Auditorium. Gold-[continued on page 4] 
According to Hesburgh, Notre Dame for the future. Later these Dame people have "a divine dissa­friends, including trustees, alumni For commencement tisfaction if they're not sure of the and members of the advisory very best ... We're not only going councils, started off the campaign . to make our goal, we're going to with pledges or contributions. · 
Mansfield, O'Neill to join Carter 
surpass it." From that time the drive has Human rights advocates from Paulo, a multiracial city of 7.5 serves as a director of AT&T;If the income received thus far been planned and organized by three areas of the world and two million, and has led the fight for General Motors; Kraft, Inc.;
for the campaign is any indication, 
many people, including John T. U.S. political figures will join. social, economic, and political Northwestern Mutual Life Insur­then Notre Dame may well go over Ryan and Ernestine Carmichael, President Jimmy Carter and others rights of the urban poor. ance Company, and Kohler co.the $130 million goal. By last trustees and co-chairpersons of the in being honored at the Univer­--Arthur F. Burns, head of the --Prof. Jean-Baptiste Duroselle,
Friday $57,830,000, or almost half campaign; James Frick, vice presi­sity's graduation exercises May 22. Federal Reserve Board, doctor of holder of the Chair of Contem­President Carter will give the laws. An expert in the manage­porary History at the Sorbonne, commencement address and re­ment of business cycles, Bums has doctor of laws. A leading scholar in ceive an honory doctor of laws had a distinguished SO-year career the area of diplomatic history and degree. as a researcher, author, teacher international relations, he has writ­
The three outspoken critics of and government monetary advisor. ten · a recent book on French-. human rights violations who will --Catherine B. Cleary, chairman American relations. receive honorary degrees are Paul of the board and chief executive --Dr. Robert H. Ebert, dean of Cardinal Arns of Sao Paulo, Brazil; officer of the First Wisconsin Trust the Harvard faculty of medicine, Stephen Cardinal Kim of Seoul, Company, doctor of laws. A noted • doctor of science. an innovator in Korea, and Bishop Donal Lamont businesswoman, Miss Cleary also [continued on page 7] of Umtali, Rhodesia. 


The political figures who will share the platform with President Carter are Speaker of the House Thomas P. O'Neill, Jr., who will receive an honorary degree, and Mike Mansfield, who recently re­tired from the U.S. Senate after serving longer as leader of the upper house than anyone in his­tory. Mansfield, who last month was nominated to be Ambassador to Japan, will receive Notre Dame's Laetare Medal, given annually to an outstanding American Catholic. 
A partial list of honorary degree ,recipients at the Univer­sity's 132nd commencement is as follows: 
--Cardinal Arns, doctor of laws. The 55-year-old prelate in 1970 became Archbishop of South Amer­ican's largest industrial center, Sao 
Buildings to be renamed to honor Hesburgh, Joyce 
"Would you like to go to the Edmund A. Stephan announced EPJACC for a quick game of the Board's decision Friday night handball? We can cut through at a banquet held to kick off the the Hesburgh Library if it's Campaign for Notre Dame fund cold." drive. He said the buildingsCiting their twenty-five years of would be renamed "at an appro­
service to Notre Dame, the Board priate time" to be decided by the of Trustees voted Thursday to board. honor University President Fr. Bishop William McManus, Theodore M. Hesburgh and Uni­Dioces of Fort Wayne-South versity Executive Vice-President Bend, gave the benediction after Fr. Edmund ·P. Joyce by naming Stephan's announcement and re· the Memorial Library and the marked, "This action only con­Athletic and Convocation Center firms what has been the case for after them .. some time Fr. Ted has the books 
Chairman of the Board and Fr. Ned has the tickets." 
'---------------------~--------------------~~ 

the observer Monday, April18, 1977' 
r,...---1\!ews Briefs--....... 
t:r·===::=::=====:-:::::::::===============National Auto blockade protests SST 
NEW YORK, [AP] -A caravan of about 550 cars crept through Kenneday Airport in protest .of the faster-than-sound Concorde airplane yesterday and its organizers claimed victory despite failing to clog the place as predicted. The parade of cars wasn't as big as one last year, but organizers promised weekly repeats until the Anglo-French SST is permanently banned from Kennedy. 

Concert ticket line erupts 
MIAMI, [AP] -Several hundred rock music fans went on a wild spree yesterday at the Orange Bowl while waiting to buy tickets to a concert in Tampa. Offices were plundered and wrecked before police drove the crowd outside with tear gas and billy clubs. Miami police said they found 500 to 1000 young people in and around the stadium when they answered the trouble call sometime after 4 a.m. They called for the crowd to disperse, but about 200 people didn't respond, and began throwing rocks and bottles at police. 
.,__On Campus Today_. 
4:30pm 
7:30pm 
7:30pm 8pm 
I 
8pm' 
9 pm­
11 :30 pm· basement 


Pre-advanced registration for freshman tonight 
lecture, "the synthetic analogue approach to an elucidation of structures and properties of metallo­proteins and enzymes" by dr. richard h. holm, professor of chemistry, stanford university, peter c. reilly lecture series, room 123, nieuwland science bldg. 
lecture "professional and theological dimensions of medical problems" by kenneth vaux, institute of relition, houston, texas, carroll hall 
recital, french folk songs performed by serge kerval, sponsored by alliance francaise de south bend (french alliance of south bend), washington hall. 
lecture, "the sino-soviet conflict" by prof. donald w. treadgold, university of washington, sponsored by institute for international studies, library lounge. 
lecture, "austria today: political, economic and cultural perspectives" by eduard adler, austrian consulate general, chicago, sponsored by dept. of modern and classical languages, Iafortune amphi­theatre. 
nau, carl casazza, matt feeney, steve podrey, mike richter, anne cortesman, joe murphy,lafortune 
Freslunan pre-advance registra­tion programs will be conducted for each of the colleges tonight at 6:30 p.m. 
At the meetings complete infor-. mation will be offered on the advance registration proceefures which are appropriate for each • college and program that the · student will enter. 
Also discussed will be the rela-


Dunne to head Senior Bar 
Fr.. Lally, vice president for student affairs, announced last Thursday, April 14th, that James Dunne has been named general manager of the Senior Bar for next year. Kenneth Ricci has been 1 named business manager and Robert Civitello will become bar · manager.· 
Ricci, an accounting manager / from South Euclid, Ohio, com-1 mented that the job will provide him with valuable experience in : managing the accounts of a small 1 business. He added that his major goal will be to "make it a place that's classy". 1 , 
Dunne, from Babylon, New York is a junior in the Colege of Arts and Letters, while Civitello, of Roches­ter , New York, is in the field of engineering. 
The Observer is published Monday through Friday and weekly during the summer session, except during the exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by students of 
, the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions 
1
m'ay be purchased for $20 per year ($10 per semester) from The Obser­ver, Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 Second class postage paici, 
' Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
The Observer is a member of the A~soc.ated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved 
-----·-----~----' 

tionship between the sophomore year curriculum and the individual degree program. As an added feature, some of the programs will include mixers with faculty and . upperclass students as well as · tours of the facilities. 
Emil T. Hofman, dean of the freshman year of studies, warns that the student who does not attend these meetings ''runs the risk of not knowing the curriculum requirements for the sophomore year and not knowing the proce­dure for advance registration. This could cause serious difficulties, such as the student losing out on getting necessary courses." 
Meeting .places for the programs are listed in the April newsletter which was recently distributed to all freshmen. ~· 
----~-----------­

!Causes, SQiutions for hunger discussed by Gellar, Henegar 
by Diane Wilson Staff Reporter 

The reasons for hunger and how to alleviate it were discussed in the Food and Justice workshop yester­day in the Hayes-Healy Building by Sheldon Gellar , political science professor at Indiana University and Waren Henegar, a farmer and member of Bread for the Poor. 
The workshop was divided into three parts. The first part involved the religious aspect of hunger and its causes. The second was a film presentation on China and the third part explained the political and community action groups and what they can do about hunger. 
The two men began their lecture by telling about their backgrounds and about how they became inter­ested in the hunger movement. 
· Henegar explained his interest in farming and agriculture, politics and religion and, according to him, these topics are important when discussing world hunger. He also Iexplained his childhood which he cited as another important reason for his interest in hunger. As a child he lived in near poverty and was often without sufficient food. He explained hunger to be "sym­bolic of man's failure to man and man's failure to God". 
Gellar, who is Jewish, began by telling about his father, who was born and raised in Russia. Gellar' s father came to the United States when the Russian army was going to draft his older brother. Gellar grew up in an industrial middle class town and said he became interested in hunger after working with Catholics on an African hunger project. He felt the "quest for luxury ought to be put on the bottom of the list of important things to do". In the last ten years, Gellar has gone back to the Jewish point of view. 
Gellar then presented the Jewish perspective. In Jewish history, land was considered inalienable -it could not be sold for profit. "The land was to use by the grace of God," Gellar explained. "We can't use things in whatever way we choose." The Jews believed that the land belonged to God, and the 
%The .Observer 
Night Editor: Debbie Dahrling 
Asst.  Night  Editor:  Paula  
Carroll  
Features  Layout:  Dave  
O'Keefe  

Sports Layout: Greg Solman Typists: Kathy Egbert, Anne Giere, Mary Ann Keefe, Mel Cele$te E.M.T.: Karen Chiames Day Editor: Jack Pizzolato Copy Reader: Pat Cole, guest ~ppearance-G.B. Bangs Photographer: Paul Cleveng~r 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY, MARIE 
VITALI!!! ' 
STOP RUNNING all the way; to Lafortune 
Now you can get your 
Observer classifieds 
at the St. Mary'sObserver oHice 
Regina South Basement 
Mon. Weds. Fri. 1.:30-3:00 Thurs. 1.:00-3.:00 
idea of land belonging to indivi­duals is a relatively new idea, according to Gellar. 
Henegar talked about a Christian farmer's goals. He first stressed that the capacity exists to produce food to feed the world's population and possibly two to three times beyond that. Starvation is not due to lack of food; it is caused by food being maldistributed as well as political factors. "Farmers are held back by repressive political systems," Henegar stated. He continued to tell about conservation and how it has affected farming in the last fifty years. Presently most farmers are concerned about the effects of short-term policies such as fertilization. He also told about the family farming operation and how it has been affected by the food policies. He explained that farmers "want to make a profit so they can be farmers.'' They are not the same as other corporations, he said. 
"The era of cheap food is over," Hebnegar said. ''Americans are going to have to pay more for their bread and potatoes." The cheap food was caused by overproduction and even then some people were starving, and they did not have the money to buy the cheap food, he explained. 
The two men criticized the 
present system as lacking historical perspective and dimension. Exam­ples of this exist in our history, Gellar explained, and we should learn from our ancestors. A second criticism is that we are "issue­oriented rather than a reflection of Integrated World view." We are worried aoout the issues instead of the reasons those issues came about, which is wrong, Gellar said. 
An artificial separation of do­mestic and international issues was another problem the men cited. 
The people defining the issues was don't understand the world market as a whole and are giving a distorted view, Henegar said. 
Finally, they said the system was characterized by a base of those articulating and dividing problem ·issues. 
Henegar then presented slides of China. The theme of the video presentation was that the means · for ending starvation exist if the people want to end it and if it is profitable. 
Other criticisms dealt with the Green Revolution and using food as a political·weapon. Some other approaches the men looked at included the radical populists ap­proach, the Religious radical's ap­proach and the Marxias/non­Marxist approach. 
St. Mary's Elections FOR HALL, CLASS AND STUDENT ASSEMBLY POSITIONS Today lOa:'Jl-6:00pm LeMan Lobby VOTE 

ATTENTION! Off Campus Juniors 
Pick up final Senior Class trip surveys in Student Activities Office Lafortune 
MONDAY, APRIL IS TUESDAY, APRILI9 
SUMMER SESSIONS 
HOME 
• 
Over 200 graduate and under graduate courses 

• 
Government/Sociology internships 

• 
Language courses 

• 
English as a Foreign Language 

• 
Sessions: Pre-May 16-June 3/1 0 First-June 13-July 16 Second-July 18-August 1 9 Cross-June 13-August 5 


ABROAD 
• 
Quito. Ecuador-Spanish 

• 
Oijon. France-French 

• 
Trier. Germany-German 


For catalogue & Application, Write or can: 
8ctJ.I for 8u1111Mr end Continuing lducetion CIMrgttCoen Univeriaty 
Wuhlngton, D.C. 20017 [202) 825-3001 
Georgetown Utwei'Sity os an equal opportun1ty I afflml8twe action lllStltubon f\ ~arc:J admissols 

CJ 
0 
~ 
d m 
~ 


The Notre Dame Orchestra will be performing its annual spring con~rt tomorrow night featuring·~ossini:s overture to "Italian Girl in :<\lgiers," <;habrier'.s Espana, and Tchaikovsky's S~mphony #s mE Mmor, Op. 64. The concert w1ll be held'" Washington Hall at 8 p.m. Admission is free. [Photo by Paul Clevenger) 


New courses available for fall 
by Marian Ulicny Senior Staff Reporter 

The College of Business Admini­stration and the College of Arts and Letters have announced new course offerings for the fall semester. 
Two additions to the Manage­ment department are "Business Communications"(MGT 374) and "Franchising" (MGT 468). 
"Business Communications," taught by Prof. Rube and Prof. Gene Brzenk, will develop skills necessary to respond to a wide variety of both written and oral communications demands. Fre­quent practical exercises such as business correspondences, reports, proposals and articles will be included. Class time will be given to revisions and development of style. 
"Franchising" will be divided into two parts. Part I will examine the franchise as a unique business form and included a mini-course in "Anti-trust". Part II will empha­size leasing and its role in business organizations. The instructor will be Prof. Richard Hunter. 
Prof. Madonna Kolbenschl:w will teach the American ~tudies' addition "Mythology of TV" (AMST 457). The course will focus on directed readings and research to explore the content of American television as a mirror of popular culture and consciousness. Various genres of contemporary television such as the soap opera, crime drama, evening news and situation comedies will be analyzed. 
"Traditional Fiber Technique" (ART 143) will offer studio work in basic fiber techniques of traditional cultures, including African, Ameri­can and Oceanic. Projects will. include basketry, coiling, knotting, off-loom weaving, macrame, tie-­dying, applique and rug and strip weaving on handmade looms. 
Prof. McSweeney will teach "Drawing for Science" (ART 230). The course will develop such basic drawing skills for science as form depiction, perspective and drawing from slides, specimens, graphs and other visual presentation tech­niques. No prerequisites are necessary. 
"Wood Sculpture"(ART 241) will emphasize individual concept and design, using wood as a promary medium. Students will · learn to operate power and hand­worked tools and the techniques of joining, laminating, fabricating and carving. The instructor will be Prof. William Kremer. 
"Color Photography" (ART 486) 
will offer an introduction to dark­of the instructor. 
Three courses have been added to the Black Studies program. "Alternative Life Styles" (BLST 
246) will explore the U.S. govern­ment statistics on the married, single, divorced, separated and their child-bearing habits. Such data will be analyzed within the framework of changing American institutions, including the sexual mores of youth. The instructor will be Prof. Joseph Scott. 
Prof. Larry Thomas will teach "Concept of Race and IQ" (BLST 374). The course will focus on two objectives: to bring to bear the tools of philosophy to understand the concept of race and to consider whether there is a connection between race and intelligence. 
"Black Theology in the Catholic 
Church"(BLST 385) will explore the key themes in the essentially Protestant literature of James Cone Deotis Roberts, Major Jones, William .Tones and"Aulalio Baltazae These issues will be compared with the Second Vatican Council's Pas­toral Constitution on the Church in the Modern World and the Social 
Encyclicals of Pope John XXIII ' 
and Pope Paul VI. The instructor 
will be Fr. E. Braxton. 
The Department of Economics has added "Law and Economics" (Econ 227) which will familiarize the student with the numerous ways in which political-legal con­cerns and economic phenomena are inter-related. Among the topics to be examined are the economic foundation of the American Consti­tution,the role of property rights in modern society, contract law in economic exchange, economic ap­proaches to crime and punishment and economic theory of represen­tative government. The course will be taught by Prof. J. Stewart. 
Prof. Susan Carter will teach "Women in the American Economy" (ECON 230). The course will encourage students to think critically about social ques· tions arising from women's pattern of participation in the American econ.OJ?Y· The women's pattern, involving wage differentials , oc­cupational segregation, wage labor force participation and housework, will be described. Explanations for these patterns will be presented. In addition, a study of women's history in America will be under­taken. 
"Economic Methodology" (ECON 433) will expose students to practical aspects of economic re­search, including statistical pro­gramming, data collection and processing, linear modeling and model estimation and interpre­tation. Prerequisites are ECON 301 and 393. The instructor will be Prof. William Davisson. 
Three courses have been added to the Department of English. Prof. James Robinson will teach "Writing Essays" (ENGL 310). The course will aim at improving the clarity and cogency of the student's writing and to stretch the creative limits of the mind. Essays will be written according to the modes of analysis and synthesis (logos) and story (mythos). lhe main text will be composed of the writings of the students in the class. 
"Major Modern African Writers and Their Commitment" (ENGL 
318) will study such writers as Okot 
p'Bitek, Chinua Achebe, Wole ·soyinka and Ngugi wa Thiongo as developing the consequences of black culture and a modern histori­
cal moment. The instructor will be
Prof. James Stewart. Prof. Steve Katz will teach "Genre Novels" (ENGL 410) which will examine novels such as the 
Western, Detective, Gothic and 
Science Fiction. After analyzing 
these popular forms, students will 
collaborate in small groups to 
complete a short novel in one 
chosen genre. 
"Political Philosophy of Plato" 
(GOVT 533) has been added to the 
Department of Government and 
International Studies. The course, 
taught by Prof. Alfons Beitzinger, 
will analyze Plato's political philo­
sophy in light of the principal of 
dialogues of such works as Apology 
[continued on page 4] 

WIITI lOB fiLMS 
AND !ILIVISmN! 
• 
Experienced professionals 

• 
Valuable industry contacts 

• 
Editorial and marketing aid 

• 
Do not send manuscripts 

• 
For information, write 




room practice in color: exposure, color correction and processing of 
SCREEN WAil ERS SERVICE 
t~e color print. T:mght by Prof.. 
2064 Alameda Padre Serra 
Rtchard Stevens, the course re­quires the following prerequisites: Santa Barbara. CA 93103




l __
~~T 385, ART 485 and permission 
.. 
,-
•'· ' , .... 
. .-~ .. -~' .·· ...-. ..-,. .\
..· 

· Monday, April 18, 1977 the observer 
An Tostal sleep-out to be in Stepan area 
by Ann Gales Staff Reporter 

According to Mike McCord, or­
ganizer of the An Tostal slumber 
party, the giant sleep-out will be 
held this Friday night on the grass 
by Stepan Center, not on the North 
Quad as printed on posters that 
have been circulated around cam­
pus. 

The sleep-out will last from 11:30 
p.m. Friday until after sunrise Saturday morning. Soft guitar music is tentatively planned for the first couple of hours, McCord said. At approximately 1:30 a.m., Rev. Robert Griffin wi11 concJude the evening's entertainment with a bed-time story. 
Stepan Center will be open all 
night so that students may use the 
bathroom facilities. However, a 
security guard will be on duty to 
make sure that the building is used 
for that purpose only. In case of 
rain, the slumber party will be 
canceled. 
McCord, a senior in the College 
of Arts and Letters, explained that 
the sleep-out had originally been 
planned to take place on the 
North Quad. According to Mc­
Cord, Dean Roemer said that the 
slumber party could be held on the 
North Quad if none of the rectors or 
rectresses of the dorms on the quad 
had any objections to the plan. 
"All of the hall rectors and rectresses thought the sleep-out was a good idea to a certain point,'' McCord said, ''but they just don't trust Notre Dame students in mass 
• crowds like that. They thought it would be too wild." 
Because of the skepticism of the 
rectors and rectresses, the location 
of the sleep-out was switched to 
Stepan Center. "It's sort of an 
experiment, though," McCord 
commented. "If things get out of 
hand, nothing like this will be tried 
again for a long time." 

McCord emphasized that the sleep-out is not intended to have a "panty-raid or football game atmo­,sphere." Instead, he said that it should have a mellowing effect on the students, and serve as "a kind ·of release from the rowdiness of the 
weekend." · "What we're trying to create is a mellow atmosphere where kids can just be under the stars enjoying the company of their friends," McCord said. "It will be an opportunity for Notre Dame kids to show some of their social maturity,'' he added. 
McCord ~ncourages all students to "come out this Friday to have a great time, but remember be cool, and pleasant dreams." 
Sellers lectures cancelled 

Dr. Wilfrid Sellers of the Univer­
sity of Pittsburgh, who was schedu­
led to lecture three times this week, 
will not be able to attend any of the 
lectures due to an illness, the 
philosophy department announced. 
Sellers, the author of both critical 
and humorous articles in national 
publications, was supposed to have 
centered his talks around the 
theme of "Truth: Oassical Prob­
lems Revisited." 

GUYS & DOLLS!! 
Bouncers and Bartenders 
Nothing but the best for-


senior bar 
ND 
Pick up application at 315 ad. bldg. Deadline .is Wed. , April 20th 5pm. MUST BE 21 BY SEPT. 
-a;.::~!;=~~=;~~=~t!=::!fk:~~C::::!!l::'! .... 
Fiddler on the Roof 

The loving theatrical hymn to the Jewish people based on the Sholem Aleichem stories 


s.MC 
Apr. 29, 30 8:00pm
T H E A T R E 
May 5, 6, 7 O'lauglinAud. 
284-4176 
.$2.50 ($2 std./f~c.) 


are you...•.•• , •• 
_._ ~ot Baptized and Interested in becoming a Ch~n? 
--Baptized and interested in becoming a Roman Catholic? Baptizal Cathglic._and iitt;Jested in re~_iving the Sacrament of 
C~nfirmation? . Baptized .Catholic and interested in learning more about your -religion? for information please contact the : NOTRE DAME CATECHUMENATE at 'P-tmpus Minlstry Campus Ministry 
West Memorial Library Padin Hall 
283-6536 2.8.3~3820 

---~­


This group of Arabian singers was part of Saturday's International Festival. 

An Tostal to include Irish Wake 
[continued from page 1] tition. Contestants will choose from several events including 100­yard swim, freethrow shooting nine holes of golf, pool, pinball and other events. While this event is going on, the road rally will be held beginning at 7:30a.m. At 11:15 a.m. a campus-wide picnic will be held in front of each of the dining halls, with hot dogs, baked beans, potato chips, cake and lemonade served. The "Parade of Chariots" will begin at 12:30 p.m. starting in front of Alumni and Dillon Halls, fol­lowed by the Ben Hur Chariot Race at 1 p.m. on the field on the east side of Juniper Avenue. Following the chariot race, seve­ral events will be held, including pie and baked bean eating con­tests, a fish relay race, Notre Dame-Saint Mary's flag football, and three-legged mud volleyball between the staff members of 

WSND and The Observer. Finally from 9 p.m. to 1 a.m. the 
Then at 2 p.m. the Mud Volley­Irish Wake will be held inside 
ball finals will take place followed Stepan Center. "Choice", a band 
by a gigantic earthball soccer m from Chicago, will play and light­
atch between the North and South ing will be placed to turn Stepan 
Quads behind Stepan Center at into a huge disco dance floor. 
2:30p.m. 

"Serene, Sunday," April 24, 
The tug-of-war contests will be­concludes the weekend's activities, gin at 3:30 p.m., with the North beginning with the consolation Quad against the South Quad in the game for the Bookstore Basketball first match, followed by anyone Tournament at 1 p.m. Then the else who wants to challenge some­Jocks vs. Girls basketball game will one to a grudge match. The be held at 1:30 p.m. · In this tug-of-war pit will be three feet competition, the boys must play the deep and 12 feet long, Montgomery girls with boxing gloves, bags over said. their heads, or with some other 
handicap. The finals for theWhile all these activities are Bookstore Tournament will beginbeing held, free popcorn, cotton at 2:30 p.m., followed by a slam­candy and snow cones will be dunk contest, which anyone isavailable to the spectators and invited to enter, at 3 p.m.
competitors. 

At 4 p.m. the action switches to Montgomery and Sordyl said behind the Bookstore, where the that booklets, outlining all the semi-finals for the Bookstore Bas­activities for An Tostal weekend, ketball Tournament will be held. will be distributed tomorrow. 

New courses outlined for '77-'78 
!continued from page 3] Crito, Symposium. l:{epublic and 
Laws. 
A smiliar analytical study of the ··Political Theorv of Aristotle'' (GOVT 534) will examine such works as Metaphysics, Nocho­machean Ethics. Politics and Rhetoric. The instructor will be Prof. Seitzinger. 
"American Jurisprudence" (GOVT 535) will study the develop­ment of American schools of juris­prudential theory and of the ju­dicial function as found in -the writings of the principal judges and commentators. Betizinger will be the instructor. 
"Problems in Political Theory 1-11 (GOVT 537-538) will offer seminars in political theory con­sidering a single substatntive prob-· lem thl'Ough a range of readings in several theorists or a set of related problems in a single theorist. Profs. Seitzinger. Edward Goerner and John Roos will be teaching the course. 
The department of History will offer a new series of mini-courses. ''Assassinations-Lincoln and Ken­nedy''(HIST 344A) will focus on the most tragic and controversial as­sassinations in American history. The instructor will be Prof. Vincent DeSantis. 
Prof. Robert Kerby will teach "The Union 1861-65" (HIST3448). A series of lectures will expiore American development betweem Lincoln's election and Lee's sur­render. 
-"Equal Rights Amendment" (JflST J44C) will . examine the legislative ilist,,ry of Ute proposed 27th Am('i!dlllc!lt, the Supreme Court cases (.;; 1li:1g with cliscrimi· naiion on acr;c-Jm of sex. !he present legal and economic status of women a1:d the probable conse­quences of the amendment's pal> 
sage. Prof. ~amnel Shapiro will he J the instructor. · "Napoleonic Warfare" (HIST ~ 3440) will explore the near-invinci­bility of Napolean's army, seeking clues to Napolean's success m his organization. strategy, tactics. 
weapons. group morale and . his commanding genius. Prof. L. Leon Bernard will teach the course. No previous knowledge of military 
science is required. 
Prof. Marvin O'Connell will ex­amine the many roles of "Winston Churchiii"(HIST 344E): politician, aristocrat, war-correspondent, his­torian. painter and orator. 

"Rise of Facism" (HIST 344F) will consider the ideas, events, grievances and animosities that produced the facist movement in many western nations. In addition, the numerous scholarly controver­sies about the nature and objec­tives of facism will be examined. The instructor will be Prof. Bernard Norling. 

31 N. AT DARDEN RD. ''Where Pizra is Always i11 Gooc/ Taste/" 
Chinese troupe highlights ninth International Festival 
by Kate Flynn Staff Reporter 

The ninth annual International Festival featuring song and dance from around the globe by Notre Dame international students and a traveling troupe of sixteen Chinese students was a hit once again in Washington Hall on Saturday even­ing. The show's host, Patricia Leon from Mexico, was the "tour guide" for the festival, whose theme was "It's a Small World." 
The tour began in Ireland with the "Three Hand Reel" presented by the Celtic Society, followed by two French songs, "Joie" and "Chevaliers de Ia Tobie Roude," accompanied by guiter. 
The movement east from Ireland continued with the Islamic Society, who presented the Drum Song circle dance to the rythmic jangling of bracelets and clapping by eight women in native costume. 
The evening's presentation was highlighted by an appearance of Chinese students from the univer­sities and colleges in the Republic of China. The group is sponsored by the Chinese Television Service as a goodwill ·gesture toward the United States. 
The traveling troupe treated a large gathering of students and host families to a colorful display of song and dance typical of the Republic of China. The acts included an interweaving fan dance, a lyric soprano accompanied by a quartet of string and wood­wind instruments, drum ritual and dancing, Kung Fu. sword and bamboo dancing and Chinese paint in g. 
Fr. Daniel O'Neil, director of International Student Affairs, who accepted a Chinese painting for Fr. Theodore Hesburgh, university president, said the group would leave many memories with Notre Dame and thanked the host fami­lies for their cooperation with International Studies. 
The show continued with Polyne­sian song and dance from Samoa and Hawaii, featuring a mock battle of knives fought by three Polynesian men from Notre Dame followed by a dancing of the hula-hula to the tune of "Tiny Bubbles." 
The Pan Am'erican Club spon­sored a combo of guitar, piano, rhythm instruments and voice which changed the mood of the show with its Latin beat and insistence upon audience partici­pation. 
Jules Thompson represented the United States with a typical "Ten­minute Variety Hour" of piano ragtime and impersonations, which included Ed Sullivan, Howard Cosell and Underdog. 
Additional festivities followed in the LaFortune basement. 

SHARE THE RIDE WITH US 
I 

ON WEEKENDS,HOLIDAYS, ANYTIME. 
When you want to take a break, why fly? Grey­
hound'!! save you more. No lie. So say hello to a 
good buy. Go Greyhound. You can leave when you 
like, Travel comfortably with friendly people, And 
arrive refreshed. and on time. Best of all. you'll 
save a good buck. So next time. say hello to a good 
buy, Go Greyhound. 
GREYHOUND SERVICE 
TO  ONE­ ROUND­ YOU CAN  YOU CAN  
WAY  TRIP  LEAVE  ARRIVE  
'CHICAGO  7.40  14.10  5:45pm  8:50pm  
CLEVELAND  20.05  38.10  4:00pm  10:15pm  
DETROIT MILWAUKEE  15.65 12.30  29.75 23.40  11 :35am i0:20am  4:45pm 1:15pm  
PITTSBURGH  29.85  56.65  7:15am  5:10pm,  

Ask your agent about additional departures and return trips. 
GHEYHOUND AGENT ADDRESS PHONE 

SAY HELLOTO AGOOD BU'b GO GREYHOUND. 
I I I I I I I I I I I 
I 
'------------~---------------L.----------------------------------~­
...... 

Monday, April18, 19n the observer 
Getting At Some Truth About Notre Dame 
Sometimes I strongly suspect that there is a great conspiracy against being totally honest about Notre Dame. I got a taste of it several weeks ago. I was in another city giving a talk at a Business Man's lunch about what Notre Dame students are like today. Afterwards, a couple of alumni, who were in attendance, came up to say 
they were worried about the impression  I  
might  have  given  the  others,  when  I  
mentioned the bad as well as the good.  

I have to admit I find those who whitewash Notre Dame more exasperating than those who write it off as totally bad (perhaps because these latter are easier to detect as superficial in judgment). Why are we so afraid of the truth? Notre Dame is a place with unbelievably beautiful people; but it also has its share of the insensitive, abusive and self-obsessed. Notre Dame is Volunteer Services; but, if truth be told, it is also food fights, petty jealousies and rip-offs. 
If we have the honesty to say the Notre Dame story is a mixed story, we might, all of us, have the incentive to do something about our imperfection and profound need for change and maturation. 
In searching for some truth about the spiritual development of Notre Dame students today, I find it helpful to use four classification~. The first group are "the committed." They have reached some degree of positive conscious Christian commitment. They range from those who manifest only the most tenuous decisions for discipleship to those who are saints -­the contemporary Tom Dooleys -who have given themselves, with clarity and purpose in surrender both to the person and the mission of Jesus. 
The second group are "the disen­gaged/unenlightened." Students in this category have not yet experienced real Christian commitment; they are unin­formed and unformed, but not unreceptive to the proper approach. There is great potential here: a basic goodness and spiritual questing. In some externals, students in this category might resemble their older brothers and sisters of the late sixties and early seventies. But one does not sense in them the anger of those years. On the contrary, we discover a readiness to explore important questions like faith and God, sin and social involvement. As a priest in our theology department put it, "I find students amazingly receptive these days. They are· not interested in pious platitudes but are very much interested in how the Christian tradition can help them understand themselves." 
The next category I would classify "the indifferent/ alienated." This group en­compases those students who are sour and quietly hostile; who are suspicious and cynical and unresponsive. Without pro­foundly transforming experiences, they float through four years at a place like Notre Dame without any significant spirit­ual growth or personality maturation. Oftentimes they come here spoiled, pam­pered, boorish, inconsiderate, intolerant of any difficulty in life, committed principally to materialistic goals that are self-centered and frequently downright hedonistic; they strive to avoid vulnerability (particularly through self-disclosing, personal relation­ships) at all costs. 
The final group, small in size, thank God, could be called "the Roemers." They have the Dean of Students' name because they are the ones who find themselves summoned to his office, guilty of serious offenses against the university community (or they simply haven't been apprehended yet). These students demonstrate in their 

Fr. Bill Toohey· 

actions that they have excommunicated themselves from the values of the com­munity. In this category we find the student who traffics in drugs, who is involved in serious stealing, who destroys property maliciously, or severely harms another person. 
I'm not about to try guessing how many students belong in each of these four categories. It seems more important to simply recognize the fact that we have a tremendously variegated student body. All of this should make us very cautious with our generalizations about today's students. 
Having said this, and trying to avoid over-reacting to a single piece of data, it is still true that a number of us priests have been deeply moved by something that has been happening these past few weeks. I'm referring to student use of the new Rite of Penance. 
Although there has been no effort to tabulate, we do have a sense that more students participated in the sacrament this lent than in quite some time. More importantly, there was every indication that many students were encountering their God with total honesty, revealing with candor and humility their need for His healing and transforming presence. And some of the personal prayers of sorrow and rededication they offered in conclusion were the most genuine and sincere I have everbeenprivileged to witness. 
I find this very encouraging. Despite the great mixture of good and bad at Notre Dame, something· very hopeful is hap­pening, as indicated, I believe, in the many students who have tried to find new meaning in a reformed rite of confession. One thing I know for sure: the hours spent with those students this lent have been the richest of my priesthood --and for that I'm deeply grateful. 
•

Here's looking At You • Play It Again, Sam 
Lisa Moore and Nick Durso 
The Nazz, both a project and a place, deserves commendation for what it has offered to Notre Dame student since its establishment. If its purpose needed definition, one might say that it serves as an outlet for creative energy. an abundant element at this university. Students who dabble in the arts may use its empty stage as they need and want it. This opportunity is vitally important for an · academic community which encourages self-expres­sion and experimentation. The Nazz has expanded its horizons to include literary readings, evenings of jazz music, folk singing and dramatic endeavors--all of which are unpretentious efforts which have as their motive pure entertainment. 
This creative forum offers us now, Play It Again Sam, a hilarious comedy by Woody Allen. The most outstanding and note­worthy feature of the student effort was the audience's reaction to it. They loved it and responded often with outbursts of laughter and applause. Play It Again Sam was a 
communal endeavor, enjoyed by all as pure 
and simple fun. 

Much of the success enjoyed by the Nazz 
production of Woody Allen's play must be 
attributed to Woody Allen himself. Like 
several of Neil Simon's plays or Norman 
Lear's TV comedies, Play It Again Sam is a 
play that can't miss. lts light humor (which 
the ND Student Players often show us is 
lightweight) can be either innocuous or 
refreshing. Much of the effervescence of 
plays such as Allen's is built into the script. 
itself. This performance shows us that an inane script can be comfortable entertain-­ment. The audience feels a sense of escape from the daily chores of academia, the same kind of release we often turn to when we settle down in an easy chair with a glass of instant ice tea to watch "Charlie's ·Angels" or when we spend an evening at Vegetable Buddies. Although Play It Again Sam is not polished theatre, it does 

prove to be as refreshing as a glass of instant ice tea. 
The character of Allen Felix carries the script, arid the actor who portrayed him, Jeff Pecore, did likewise with the produc­tion. The lines are all there and need only be delivered to set the audience laughing; Jeff delivers them with ease and success­fully· portrays the awkwardness that is Woody Allen. This Walter Mitty type who wears Mickey Mouse shirts and chews aspirin shows us a good time, for, as the play suggests, we all have a bit of the neurotic in us. 
In contrast to the whimpy but lovable Allen is the dame-slapping but lovable Uogart (the male dominated audience expressed particular interest and approval of the former quality). Mike Natale has the voice and the manner nearly down pat, and his dialogues with Allen are the best-exec­uted portions of the show. Here again, the part is a wonderful one insured of appreciation; no one can deny those immortal lines their due reward. 
Allen and Bogart are characters that both Woody Allen and the audience seem to enjoy. Both the play · and the performance are theirs. We can sympa­thize with Allen's gauche behavior and we admire and envy Bogart for his "tech­nique". The remainder of the cast, with the possible exception of Linda Christie (Clare Leary), is meant to be functional and supportive. The characters are types: the young aspiring and aggressive business; man who is inadvertantly awkward and whose money-making schemes always disintegrate in his hands, a former wife, and a bevy of old and new girlfriends. The performances are shallow, therefore, be­cause the roles are shallow. Our interest is sparked only because we are curious about what will happen to and inside of the hero of our play. 
We mentioned earlier that the Nazz is also a place, and a despicable place to have a play. The crowd was large and cramped into a room which featured low ceilings and bad sightlines. Get there ea,.ly for a good seat or bring a stepladder. lighting was effective in intent but clum ·: ir. execution. 
What we miss in this Nazz production is a sense of direction. The play is meant to be fast paced and calls for a cast with the physical and verbal agility of a jesting 
· Johnny Carson juggling coconuts. This production ambles. Its physical dimen­sions of comedy are not imaginatively utilized and only Woody Allen's rapid fire dialoe,~e keeps the show moving with a comedic dispatch. In fact, those who had difficulty seeing the performers in the crowded quarters could still have enjoyed the production for Woody Allen's great one-liners. Play It Again Sam will play it again next weekend, April 22 and 23 at 8:00 p.m. If you need to yuk it up, go ahead. 




~-6 ~--t-he _____.;.:.M..:.:o:..:.n~d~a-y.!...!.~,A~~pr~il~1~8.:....,~19~7~7--­
observer ---­
SMC academic department lists new courses 
by Jean Powley  BuEc 322 -Organization Theory ­ tionalized iri the socialist countries  tion to the code of ethics of this  in the marketplace.  An interdisci­ 
St. Mary's Editor  A course  showing how,  since the  are  considered.  Prerequisite:  profession.  plinary approach is used employing  
As  preregistration  for  the  fall  early  years  of  the  century,  the  BuEc 251, 252.  BuEc 422  -International  Man­ concepts from such fields as econ­ 
semester  rapidly approaches,  St.  evolving discipline of organization­ BuEc 401 -Advanced Accounting  agement  -Nature of international  omics, psychology, social psychol­ 
Mary's  academic  departments  al behavior has been influenced by  -This course broadens and intensi­ management methods and the role  ogy, sociology and psychoanalysis.  
have  begun  to  announce  their  and developed in relation to (1) the  fies  a student's accounting know­ of  American  managers  in  the  Among  the  many  topics  covered  
course  offerings  for  fall,  1977.  basic social science disciplines, (2)  ledge examining various situations,  foreign environment.  Focus on the  are motivation, cognition learning,  
Included  in  the  vast  listings  of  business organization and the prac­ demonstrating the ways accounting  influence of cultural variables  on  habit formation  and  post-transac­ 
course descriptions are a number of  tice of administration, (3) education  concepts  are  operative in several  the  philosophy  and  practive  of  tional  behavior.  Prerequisite:  
new and interesting courses:  for business, and (4)  the applied  applications.  Topics include busi­ management.  Prerequisite:  BuEc  BuEc 231.  
Business Administration  behavioral sciences.  Prerequisite:  ness  combinations,  consolidated  221.  Information  on  new  courses  in  
And Economics  BuEc 221.  statements, fund accounting, gov­ BuEc 433  -Consumer Behavior  - English, History, Humanistic Stu­ 
BuEc  321  - Investments  -A  BuEc 356  -Contemporary Econ­ ernment  accounting,  liquidations  This course is designed to provide  dies, Philosophy, Psychology and  
description of marketable financing  omic Systems -This course investi­ and installment sales with empha­ the student with a basic understan­ Religious Studies will be provided  
instruments such as common stock,  gates the economic systems which  sis on the conglomerate. Prerequi­ ding of the behavior of consumers  tomorrow.  
bonds, and warrants.  Included in  are used to allocated resources  in  site:  BuEc 301, 302.  
the  course  are  discussions of the  various  countries.  Attention  is  BuEc  411  - Real  Estate  -An  
contractual characteristics of those  focused  on  the socialist countries  introductory study  in  real  estate  
assets, the markets in which they  and the  mixed economies of Eu­ and  property law, focusing· upon  
· are  traded,  and economic factors  rope. Marxist, Leninist and Maoist  the legal problems encountered by  
affecting investment management. Prerequisite: BuEc 202.  theories and the extent to which these concepts have been institu­ the realtor. contracts, agency and property law are stressed in addi- SMC  needs volunteers 0  

for

Jr. class nominees reviewed 

by Anne Bachle biology majors living in LeMans. They propose to survey the
Three tickets will be competing students immediately afterfor the positions of Junior Class elections to gather ideas. Theyofficers at Saint Mary's. 

would like to co-operate with Notre 
"Have we got a party for you" is Dame's Junior class on social the slogan of the ticket composed of activities, and suggest utilizing the Beth Menke, president; Kim Career Development Center and Davis, vice-president; Kathleen bringing in more "speakers who Shea for secretary, and Mary Pat would be of interest to college Riley for treasurer. women today," according to their 
platform.
All candidates live in LeMans this year, but "·we represent almost Getting involved and keeping every major on campus, so we can students informed are also ideas get a variety of opinions in this emphasized by the ticket compris­way," Menke noted. Since Shea is ed of Donna Noonan for pesident, a speech major. she and Menke are Marynell O'Connell for vice-presi­stressing communication as an dent, Laura Brems for secretary, inte~ral part of their platform. and Linda Schultz for treasurer. 
"We \'.(ant to have monthly class Noonan and O'Connell are both meetings with some special attrac­business majors. Noonan, who tion, monthly newsletters, and telephone committees to contact all French folksinger the class members for special 
to perform
events and decisions, because we 
feel it's very important to keep 
tonight
everyone well-informed," Menke Renowned French folksinger.
stated. 

Serge Kerval, will perform tonight 1Their main reason for running is at 7:30 in Wljshington Hall.
because "students care but they Kerval, who accompanies himselfneed direction," Menke said. "St. 

on the guitar, will sing folksongsMary's students are not apathetic,. 
from France, Quebec and Louisi­but the failure of the parietals ana.
reform effort shows that we need Kerval was born in Brest, Francemore efficient, enthusiastic leader­on April 2, 1939. Forced by war,ship." 

his family settled in Angers.
The ticket of Kathy Murphy for Having studied music at the Lyceepresident, Rosemary Hammer for and the Shcool of Beaux Arts,vice-president, Diana Fonow for Kerval is a cellist as well as a treasurer and Judy Schaefer for Guitarist and singer.

secretary is stressing experience in their platform. 

Under the 'invitation of the Louisiana governor, Kerval madeMurphy, a music major and his American debut in the fall ofresident of McCandless, is the 1975. Kerval is well known informer student vice-president of France and abroad through hisstudent affairs. while Hammer, many recordings. He has releasedwho lives in LeMans and is more than fifteen albums.
majoring in elementary education, co-chaired Sophomore Parents' Tonight's performance is spon­Weekend this year. sored by the Alliance Francaise of 
'·Because of this, we feel we are South Bend with the participation capable to handle the class office of the departments of modern positions,'' Hammer noted.· languages at Notre Dame and St. 
Fonow and Schaefer are both Mary's. Admission is free. 
Food Services Council ~ discusses fights, boycotts 
I 
I 
At its last meeting of the year, 1 taste-test by contacung Chris
I 
The Notre Dame Food Services , Erickson (1108).
I 
Advisory Council recently discus­

'--The Council also expressed 
1 sed taste-testing, food fights and concern about food fights, agreeing I maintaining the boycott of Non­that those caught instigating or Uaion lettuce.
I participating in food fights should 
I 
Concerned about the quality of be punished. food. the dining hall staff frequent­
Finally, the council is interestedI ly has taste-tests to find the best in finding out what students thinkI I product without taking any brand about the University's boycott of n.~mes into consideration. 

non-union lettuce. A few years ago flle J\dvisory Council suggested students decided to boycott non­
~tlat students participate in the union lettuce. However, UFW let­'.aste•ttsting process, which in­tuce is not always available, and on volves ;ln evaluation of food prod­a few occasions, salad has not been ucts acutrding to such categories as served. appear~nce and taste. The Food The boycott is no longer as Serices staff agreed to let students highly publicized as it once was, ~articipate, and a panel of eight but church groups have asked that 
;tudcnts recently ~.ampled four Notre Dame maintain its boycott. 
'ifferent kinds of pizza to decide Anyone wishing tr, express his ,.· >h kind was most favorable. 

ooinion on this issue ~ 1wuld contact . "tudents. may par:icipate in a Chris Erickson. 
".!: 

lives in Holy Cross, is also majoring in theatre. O'Connell, a McCand­less resident, is also a French major. Brems is a chemistry major, Schultz is in nursing, and both live in LeMans. 
All four have been involved in various activities in the past two years, including hall council, social commission and Parents' Week­end, from which they have "learn­ed what is necessary, and what is lacking" in being effective work­ers, as stated in their platform, and they promise that they will be hard and enthusiastic workers as class officers. 


freshman orientation 
co-chaiiWoman needed for: 
ACADEMIC 
SOCIAl 
BANQUET SPIRITUAl 
BIG SISTER 
TRANSFER 
FINANCE 

applications taken until april 26 send to stevie wernig 
SUMMER STORAGE 
SAFE, EASY, INEXPENSIVE+ CLOSE TO CAMPUS ON US31 
At: MASTER MINI-WAREHOUSES self-Service Storage Open 7 Days LDcated just north of State line Telephone: 683-1959 or 684-6991. 
Become a Manager in Training 
Rapid Advancement -Over 300 managers and 
co-managers developed from this program. 
First year earnings exceed $11 K plus benefits. 
Managers earnings exceed $20 per year. 
Excellent opportunities with a growing company. 
No experience Necessary -Tri State Area openings Apply in Person Mon. -Fri. 8 am to 5 pm Saturday 8 am -12 noon 84 Lumber Company Midwest Regional Headquarters Naperville, Ill. 60540 North Aurora Rd. ph. (312) 355-9590 
Physics courses for non -science majors 
PHYSICS 204 
PHYSICS 210 

The two courses described below will be offered by the Department of Physics in the fall 1977 semester. They are particularly well suited for non-science majors ­though not restricted to them. 
NUCLEAR ENERGY AND SOCIETY 2MW F ---3 credits----------------Professor V. P. Kenny 
PREREQUISITES: None 
A course developing the basic Ideas of energy, power, and the Important applications of modern nuclear science. The advantages and disadvantages of nuclear fission and fusion energy devices are compared with solar energy, fossil fuel, and other energy alternatives. Nuclear weapons, their military applications, and the political problems involved In their control, will be discussed. The course Is designed for the non-speclalisf. 
DESCRIPTIVE ASTRONOMY 
lOMWF, 2MWF-----3 credits-------Rev. J.L. Shilts 
PREREQUISITE: 

A one-year introductory science course including at least one semester of physical science. 
A description of the motions and structure of the earth moon, and planets. An exposition of the modern theories of solar and stellar structure, nebulae, and galaxies. An introduction to cosmology. The course Includes elementary observational exercises. It is intended primarily for non-science majors. 
.•..• 


Monday, April 18, 1977 
the observer 
7 


Commencement guests 
[continued from page 1] handling of impeachment moves 
. medical education and health care against President Richard Nixon 
· delivery, Dr. Ebert pioneered new and was elected speaker of the 95th relationships between Harvard's Congress. Medical School and the health needs of the surrounding commun­--Kurt Waldheim, Secretary ity while dramatically increasing General of the United Nations, female and minority admissions doctor of laws. Reelected last year into the university's medical educa­to a second five-year term by the tion program. U.N.Security Council, Waldheim, a 
--Rep. Thomas P. O'Neill, Jr., career Austrian diplomat, has been (D., Mass), doctor of laws. As credited for discreet but tireless majority leader of the House, he efforts to involve the world body in earned respect for his careful the easing of global crises. 
Campaign pledges mount 
[continued from page 1] hope when the campaign is over, five years from the time they we will be ranked with the 10-15Wilson Commons, a social center for students enrolled in graduate programs at Notre Dame, will be pledge to fulfill their pledges. top universities,'' Hesburgh state­dedicated Apr. 23 with a Mass celebrated by Theodore M. Hesburgh. The graduate student During the next two years, ed.
complex is located on Bulla Road, east of juniper Road and the campus. [Photo by Paul Clevenger] The Observer wiD be running a
"visiting teams" will be traveling series of articles on The Campaign to 42 key cities in the country to for Notre Dame, covering thesolicit from 2000 plus prospects various aspects of tbe campaign.
who might contribute $5,000·


Feigl receives teaching award 
$50,000. Hesburgh announced that the campaign ''will involve theby Marinell Rauen many achievements, Feigl is noted final decision from the names whole country if not the world."
for making even chemistry an submitted to them. The method of 
ERRATUM

Dr. Dorothy Feigl of St. Mary's Telephone calls and direct mail will 
exciting subject. When asked to selection enables the students to
chemistry department was named be used in the campaign process,
describe her,· freshmen can only voice their opinion on a matter that In last Friday's issue of The 
recipient of the 1977 Maria Pieta although personal interviews will
answer, "wow." is very relevant to them. Observer, there were members of 
Award at a reception given in her be conducted as much as possible. 
the Interhall All-Star football teamThe award was initiated last The award is in honor of Sr. Pietahonor last Friday in Stapleton Hesburgh noted that many other who were omitted from the listings. 

1 year. Students and teachers area who is a 1922 graduate of St.
Lounge. 
universities seem to be having Receiving a certificate of award for allowed to vote for the professor of Mary's. She was an active member 
St. Mary's President John 
difficulty with their campaigns but the Interhall All-Star Team were:their choice from a list of eligible of the administration and nowDuggan described the award "as a that the Notre Dame fund drive has Sorin: Off-Campus:participants. The Academic resides at St. Mary's.
symbol that merit is being recog­met with "enormous enthusiasm" Tom Kwiechen Rich HolmanCouncil also casts a ballot for their The award has now become annized. The purpose is to honor so far. He added that tpere is still a Paul Chutefavorite contender. The Maria annual event at the college, but "Iexcellence in lower division teach­good deal of work left to do. "We Chip Habig Pieta Committee composed of pro­have no insights as to how toing," Duggan stated. 

fessors and students, makes the achieve it," Feigl concluded. 
Upon receiving the award Feigl commented, "It's nice to be told :;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:::::::;~: you are doing a good job by your stuJents as well as colleagues.'' In 
Netters win two meets 
a tone of modesty she added that there were many people who [continued from page 8] the win with an easy 6-3 score. 
equally deserved the honor. 
first set 6-3, Harris gave up five Ending the competition wasFeigl has been involved in the games in the final set but still hung Notre Dame's Westphal. Winning
chemistry department at St. 
on for the victory. 7-5 was the final his fourth match of the day, heMary's for 11 years. Next year she set score. followed the same pattern aswill undertake the position of Adding icing to the cake, the Trueblood. Winning 6-2 in the first 
chairwoman. According to Duggan, "her contributions have Irish went on to win the next three set Westphal faltered to defeat in singles matches for a final 8-1 the second 7-5. The third set wasbeen significant. She is full of victory. easy as he cruised to a 6-1 win.
vitality and exhibits devoted atten­The next match for the Irish istion to her students." Among her In the number four position, this afternoon as Notre Dame plays 

The rampaging typhoon that smashed Guam on· May 22, 1976 isn"t on the front pages anymore. But itwill be a long time before the people of Guam forget itAnd it will be a long time before Red Cross forgetsit Because we were there, too. 
Believe itor not, Guam was only one of 30,000 disasters in the last 12 months where we were called on for major help. 
Which is the reason our disaster funds are disas­trously low. And an impor­tant reason why we need your continued support Help us. Because the things we do really help. In your own neighborhood. 
And across America. And the world. 
Guaa

countecl 





onus. 
led Cross. The Good Neighbor. 


Koval scored identical victories in host to Indiana. On Tuesday, the both sets winning 6-3, 6-3. Irish play another home match as 
In the fifth position, Trueblood Nc;~rthwestern pays a visit to South won the first set easily 6-2. · Bend. Both matches start at 2:00 Lapsing in the second set and p.m. at the Courtney Tennis losing 6-4, Trueblood came back for Courts. 
Add a new international dimension to your college career with a 
SEMESTER AT SEA 
The S.S. Universe sails Feb. 25, 1978, on a round-the-World voyage. Join us. 
FREE COLOR VIEWBOOK 
Write or phone INSTITUTE FOR SHIPBOARD 
·EDUCATION. Taj Mahal Academically affiliated with Bldg., P.O. Box 2488, Laguna the University of Colorado Hills CA 92653. (714)581-6770 
The S.S. Universe isAttn: UG Division registered in Liberia 


_ 


I~----------------------------------,,
NOTICES PERSONALs
C'' f{l. d 
• NEED TYPING? Executary, Inc. What to do next year? Try JVC. Congratulations
rQSSI re Adam I
I Professional Typing SErvice. 10 Ad Library Lobby & Campus Ministry-Sczcepanski, New South Dining Hall.­typists-varlous typestyles. Term S West Badin. Tuesday, April 19th. student coordinator!
I ~=~=:'~a~i 8i3 f.~i;8_resumes: s2.0o vciTeonou"MoCI(H;"d"Oe;.•t us;t;,;-;;.~-;,;-;;k-;-.;;_;;nd 1
---------------try to Impress you with his lookS(. invest. Anyone can win! Mock Stock
1Niles Auction 802 Fort St. 684-6954 LOST AND FOUND --------------~ Market. 
I 

1
7:30. We buy and sell furniture, LOst-Metal key chain tag-engraved lifestyle and service, Library Lobby Feeling Depressed? ND-SMC Hot-. appliances, antiques, and misc. both sides-initial "G"-teardrop & Campus Ministry West-Badin, line. 4-4311 open nights. items daily 12-6 p.m. shape. Greg 287-8395. Tuesday, April 19th. -----:-----------­I 

1A"c~~;~-;;-;;;;-;ty;;;g~;;;:-o;n;ho L"osT:"8i;~l~th"e-;--;;;;-v~-~ar oe-;;,-;r;;y-;~-;;;;;;;,;tic-:t~i~r!~~t~,;en7r; ,::~t!:e:r~~: 1· 
232-0746. Hours-8 a.m.. 8 p.m. Hayes-Healy. Call Debbie 7906. kets. Will pay. Call Dan 3315. ate student. All utilities. Near I 
1--------------­
:r;;-ta~~Tr;n-;-;-r;.,t-;t;.;-w'la Ro-;;-~-;.;---------memorial hospital. No rent in return TYPING Call Carolyn at 232-9061. Buddha-Elephant head. _ for helping sister & brother (H.s.
283 1706, 

---------------_ or G. Lib. Morton Sugar is sweet grad) to and from wheelchairs, etc.
I 
272 7623 32 
1
FOR RENT But Otto's face For more information, please calli 
I 
Kelsey. Sure can't be beat. 232-9128. Summer renters wanted. 3 bedroom ---------------Vote OTTO UGLY MAN ON --------------­house, furnished. Very reasonable. Found: Set of keys. 4th floor St. Ed's CAMPUS! Bill Baby, 
I 

Cio_se_t_oc_am_p_us_.c_a_ll2_82_-3_62_6.__ · Hall, weekend of April · Initials ---------------Despite deviate deeds done, other-CHW. Call Tim at 8865. FOR 1977, WHY·· NOT THE obnoxious over-bearing outcasts I
11 
I 
4 bedrooms, furnished apartment ---------------WORST. OTTO FOR U.M.O.C. notoriously neglect· newt niceties within walking distance of campus. Wanted Experienced Fem. Bar ---------------stupidly sacrificing sens_uous stir-. Call William Hill, 232-1724. Sum-Main. Excellent wages, hours flexi-VOTE FOR ALUMNI HALL'S FA+ rings from fantastic phone 
1~~~~~~~~~------~::_~~~~~:'_~~~:_!~~~4. ~~J.[~. DOG:. OTTO FOR flirtation!! Carnal Cleo 
I Two bedroom house to rent. sum-The Distillery Liquor Store has ------------------------------1mer and'ler school year. 1012 Eddy openings for 2 nights per week, Ugly Man is coming. Save your Translation: Street. $120 mo. plus utilities. CALL starting immediately. Must be 21. pennies. Bill, 
1
~~~~~~R~~~"!:_~~~~-~~~~ ~g~t~ar;:;~:·A~~~Iy in Person. ;,~h:------------~~rs~~l~~azy about your bod-and
I 

Wanted! Summer renters. Five ---------------Bertram asked "What is a friend?" Cleo 
1 
Bedroom house. Excellent condi-Wanted-Grad student. The Red I think I know. Happy Birthday. --------------­
I 

tion, good location. Rent negotiable. Door Liquor Store has opening for LOve, Boo. Kathy Conway, HAPPY 21. Here's Call 8436_ Assistant Manager position. Hours ---------------to a "healthy year-broken knees-. ----------------are flexible. Apply in person at The Remember the Ugly Duckling who DON'T STAY "Stuck-up". Available for summer and'ler fall. Distillery, 1723 South Bend Ave. grew up to be a be,_utiful Swam~ Studio Apt. close to campus $90 per ---------------Otto never did. Vote him ugliest! · To-th-;;~;;~;-;.;;;;-;AM-;-d"M I month-furnished. Call 287-7739. FOR SALE ---------------·OM. You've got all our best wishes. ---------------Peter, I'm in bliss. All the ducks The rest of the Corby Gang (past•• 
1/4 EXCELLENT HOUSES IN FINE For sale-Schwinn Continental lO-know. present & future). NEIGHBORHOODS. Each ideal for speed 26" blue 18 months old new Cathy 
I 

4-6 students. Cost adjusted to tires, mint condition $110 firm. Ted ---------------Q.j(_~;w-thc;t~;-;-;-~-;;t"he number of students $225-$300 plus 8691 • 313 Stanford. Yes, fans! Thatwas John A. Moore Senior Formal out of their system•• 
utilities. Call Mr. Gatto 234-6688. ---------------who unselfishly held himself score-lets get down to some good old ---------------~a Fiat 134 Syder Convertible, low less in his team's amazing 21-4 loss inexpensive Hellraisin Rooms for rent this summer. very miles, sharp, $2500.00 or best offer. in BookStore hoops! Super effort, __________:_____ I 
reasonable, and just a few blockS ~~~~~~~::_o~o_:______ Johnny!! Lo from Notre Dame. Phone 277-3604. ---------------ry, I ---------------NIKKOR 28 mm F 3.5 lens. Mint Hugs, kisses freely distributed at N th t • tw tv · LOdge Cabins on Lake Michigan for condition. Asking only S1 25. Call Stuck Up Festivities, contact-Kathy. ow a you re en -one 
rent by days, week, month. Only 30 · ~~~~:.____________ ---------------you can have fun min. from campus. Gintaras Resort SHOW SOMEONE YOU CARE + legally!!!! 1 
15861> Lake Shore Rd. Union Pier, Stereo tape recorder Reuox Mark IV SEND AN TOSTAL DAISIES FOR Mich. 616.469_ _ $250. AR-turntable with Shure VIS, GENTLE THURSDAY.
3298 Paul I
$85. DYNACO FM-3, $70. Call --------------­288-1681.
5-bedroom house, real nice, large SIESTA IMPORTS. Onyx, glass & ~~~------------I li.ving room and kitchen, fully fur­brass, bone, pottery; chess sets, Rished, close to campus, has burglar bookends, jewelry, etc. Great gradu­Happy 21st ! 
arm, call Charlie Moore 232-7180. ation gifts. 449 Breen-Phillips. 
:·r.ruc.el• 



~--------------------------------0.-------------~ 
/ 


~----·--the observer Monday, April 18, 1977 
Gridders impressive in scrimmage 
by Bob Keen Sports Writer 
Saturday, the Notre Dame foot­ball team ran its longest and most complicated scrimmage of the spring. The first team emerged victorious, 35-3 under somewhat controlled conditions. Despite the warm and humid weather, the Irish both offensively and defensively, executed extremely well. 
Rusty Lisch, starting at quarter­back, led the first team 71 yards for a quick score on their first posses­sion. Three straight completions including a 40 yard reception by split-end Kris Haines keyed this drive, which culminated in a short touchdown burst by fullback Steve.· Orsini. 
The first squad quickly regained possession after a spectacular one­handed diving interception by right cornerback Ted Burgmeier. Vagas Ferguson, filling in at half-back for the injured AI Hunter, scampered 33 yards off-tackle down to the 19 yard line. Following a sequence of running plays, freshman Wil­liard Browner plunged over the goal line from one yard out to give the Blue a 14-0 lead. 
Lisch, continuing his excellent. play, tossed a 13 yard option touchdown pass to Orsini, his second tally of the day. This play completed another long drive which included a 24 yard quick opener by Terry Eurick, who followed some excellent blocking in the middle of the line. 
Back to back receptions by Dave Waymer and Haines of 15 and 25 yards respectively again brought the first squad down into the White team's territory. Lisch then sprin­ted around right end for 13 yards and the score to end the half. 
At the start of the second half Joe Montana took over the offen­sive controls and guided the Blue team to the final score of the game. Kevin Hart, filling in at tight-end for the injured Ken MacAfee, pulled in a 22 yard pass from Montana. Then Montana display­ed his running abilities while bringing his team down to the four yard line. Ferguson finished this impressive drive with an off-tackle burst for the score. 
Although the offensive squad performed well, the defense appea­red awesome. White team quarter­backs, especially Gary Forystek, were continually harrassed and pressured by the pass rust. of Ross Browner and Willie Fry. The defensive secondary also played very well. Beside~> Burgmeier's interception, Jim Browner's re­placement at strong safety, Ross Christensen, returned an intercep­tion 47 yards to kill the only scoring threat by the White team. 

Ferguson led all Irish rushers with 87 yards in just 12 c~rries. Eurick performed effectively while following Ferguson with 71 yards in one less carry. The impressive olay of the offensive line attribut­
ed to the success of the rushing game. · Lisch, playing like a seasoned veteran, ran for one touchdown and passed for another while complet­_ing eight or nine passes for 147 yards. Montana playing more confidently in his short stint with the first team, hit on three of six attempts for •35 yards. 
"This was the best scrimmage so far this spring," stated Irish Head Coach Dan Devine. "I was pleased with the team's overall performance.'' The football team will continue to practice and scrim­mage for the next two weeks until April 30 when the team will play the annual Blue-Gdd game. 
·~ : .. :; .: . : .: ; ' :~ : ;: ~ 
Halfback Vagus Ferguson played extremely well in Saturday's scrimmage-A~s he ran for 87 yards in 12 attempts. [Photo by Paul 
Clevenger] 


'Scintillating 64 1survive play 
by Frank LaGrotta Knight w;. onnected on ten of while Leo Latz also exhibited 
Sports Writer eighteen attempts (including four point-blank accuracy, connecting slam-dunks) and grabbed eleven on four of five attempts. Dan rebounds. O'Leary led the losers with four 
The field was narrowed to 64 Dan Knott made: good on five of tallies. teams as the second round of the his nine shots and pulled in nine The number three-seeded Aver-I ,1977 Bookstore Basketball Tourna­caroms for Ebony Magic. Reginald age White Team, led by Bill · ment was played under yesterday's Reed headed up the losers with five 
Paterno, canned D.F. and ·the 
sunny skies. The full slate of 

buckets. Fumducks by a score of 21-12. 
contests were highlighted by the There was little doubt in the Paterno and Mike Banks shared the 
"Bookstore Bonanza" which fea­minds of the 200 spectators that 2ame's high-scoring honors each tured seven of the tournament's! saw The Butcher Brothers demol­hitting seven of fifteen shots. top-seeded teams playing in sue-· ish Gary Gilmore's Salt Lake City 
Banks also played the role of a thief 
cession behind the bookstore. Sharpshooters, 21-2, that Bruce as he stole the baH from his In the first game of the Bonanza, "Butcher" Flowers and his team 
opponent five times. 
series, the tournament's number' came to win. 
Rusty Lisch led the team in the . 
one seeded team, TILCS IV, defea­Flowers turned in a crystal rebounding category, grabbing ten 
ted 4 Skins and a Shirt, 21-11. · performance, conr1ecting on eight while Paterno and Mike Vanaker TILCS, led by Dave Batton~ who: of ten •attempts and pulling down each pulled down seven. Bill grabbed the game's high-scoring1 ten rebounds. He also kept an 
Millman led the losers with four 
honors wth seven baskets, were, other wise bored crowd entertained scoring shots. 
paced by Joe Montana and Tom with four "no doubt about it" A balanced scoring attack led Kirby. slam-dunks. Dave Huffman cont­
Scruped and His Pink Deeks to a 
Montana turned in a perfect ' ributed six tallies and seven re­21-13 victory over Randy Drango's. shooting percentage going four .for : bounds while Kevin Hart tied the Jim Sholl and Mike Galloway led four from the field and dishing out I tournament rebounding record for the Pink Deeks with six tallies five assists. Kirby tacked on four one game (set by former Irish apiece while Mike Bobinski contri­buckets to the TILC total. The gridder Pat Pohlan) with 15 carom­buted five points. Paul Puglialosers were paced by Tony Kahn grabs, while tallying four baskets•. paced the losers with seven buckets who had four tallies and Cindy Irish cage star, Jeff Carpenter to grab the game's scoring award. Farhart lwho added three. and former all-American gridder In the final Bonanza yesterdayEbony Magic, the tournament's Greg Marx scored five buckets afternoon, the number five-seeded number two-seeded entry, had apiece to lead number . six-seeded Nutmeggers had to struggle a bit to little trouble disposing of The LAW to a 21-9 victory over Hacks. pull off a ll-16 win over the Mothership Connection21-10. The Marx was flawless from. the field Barnyard Buddies. Jim Grace led winners were paced by Toby on all five of his attempts the Nutmegers with seven tallies 
on twenty-eight attempts. Mark Hardig scored five buckets for the winners while Tom Kardok's game high eight baskets led the Barnyard Buddies' losing effort. . 
In other action yesterday, the Chumps led by Bill Hanzlik and Tom Sudkamp defeated King Fai­sal's Home for the Mentally Insane by a score of 21-10. Sudkamp led all scorers with nine buckets while Hanzlik finished the day with six tallies, which included the most awesome slam-dunk of the day. Joe ·wells' five baskets paced King Faisal's losing effort. 
Tonight the third round of the . tournament begins as the "Scintil­lating Sixty-four" make their pitch for a spot in the finals. Some of the top-ranked teams in action tonight : include: : 5:30p.m.: . l LAW vs. Idi Amin's Nubian Con­nection (behind the Bookstore) Chumps vs. The Downtowners (behnd the Bookstore) Nutmeggers vs. Okie Dokes (Step· an courts) 6:15p.m.: Ebony Magic vs. The Great White Hope (behind the bookstore) TILCS IV vs. The Old Timers (behind the bookstore) The Butcher Brothers vs. The Sky 
Toby Knight scored ten Kings (Lyons courts) Ebony Ma~ic over Mothership The Average White Team III vs. Clevenger]I The Big Pigs (Stepan courts) 


%Observer 


Sports 
Netters capture triangular 
by Tom Powanda In the third slot, Harris contri­_ Sports Writer buted to the Irish cause as he came up with a win over Dowling of 
Hosting its own triangular meet, Bowling Green. Two sets again the Notre Dame tennis team came were the required numbel' with the away with two victories on Satur-scores being 6-4, 6-3. day to move their record to 10-8. Losing the next two matches, the The Irish have now won four out of Irish enabled Bowling Green to tie their last five matches. the score at four apiece. With the 
Leading the netters, playing in match resting on the shoulders of the sixth singles and third doubles Westphal, Notre Dame went down slots was Tom Westphal who ended to the wire before victory was this weekend's competition with secure. Winning a tie-breaker to four victories. clinch the first set, Westphal 
On Saturday morning, the Irish coasted to victory with a 6-3 played host to Bowling Green. decision in the second set. Final Starting off strong, Notre Dame score: Notre Dame 5, Bowling captured two fo the three doubles Green 4. matches losing only in the number· Later that afternoon, the Irish one slot. Marty Horan and Bob played host to the third team of the Koval provided the excitement for triangular meet, Northern Illinois. the match as they went three sets In the heat of the spring day, the before overcoming Rob Dowling Irish breezed to the win with an and Brian Huffel of Bowling Green. easy 8-1 victory. 
After winning a tie-breaker to Starting the match strongly, the capture the first set, the Irish duo netters were perfect in the (loubles slumped and dropped the next set action coming away with victories be the score of 6-2. Coming from in all three slots. behind in the final set, the team Leading the charge were the first again clinched the victory by doubles duo of Harris and Stehlik. winning in a tie-breaker. Giving up six games in the opening 
In the third doubles position, set, the team needed a tie-breaker Mark Trueblood and Tom West-to win. Half that total was yielded phal teamed to take a two set in the second set as the Irish came victory over their Bowling Green away with the first victory 7-6, 6-3. opponents Steve Corey and Sid Second doubles continued where Cantrell. In the first set another the first slot left off as Horan and tie-breaker was needed but the Koval again teamed for the victory. Irish again came out on top. In the Identical scores in both sets saw second set, the Notre Dame met the Irish gain ~heir second win with less resistance and came away with the fif!.al tally being 6-4, 6-4. an easy 6-2 victory clinching the ' The third doubles combination, win. · Trueblood and Westphal, met up 
Needing just three of the remain-with a little more trouble as the ing singles matches to secure the · Northern Illinois team of Phil win, Notre Dame got just that as Kramer and Carl Neufeld teamed Randy Stehlik in the number one to surprise Notre Dame with a 6-2 slot, Carlton Harris in the number victory in the ftrst set. Coming three position and Westphal in the from behind, the Irish netters went number six slot all came away with •on to win the next two sets with 6-3 two set victories. being the final result in both. 
After being beaten in the As in the doubles events, the doubles competition, Stehlik turn-Irish found the key to victory as ed in a strong showing in singles as Stehlik led the way with an easy he soundly beat Bowling Green's . 6-3, 6-0 victory over his Northern Glenn Johnson. Giving up just five Illinois counterpart Jim Merkel. games he gave Notre Dame it's Clinching the match was Harris third ~atch by the scores of 6-3, in the third position. Sweepin~ the 6-2. I [continued on page 7) 


