.... 
,. 
-· v 
State Police assist in poison investigation 
by Tony Pace 
Indiana State Police, Notre Dame Security and an unnamed private investigator have combined forces to investigate last month's inci­dence of food tampering in the North Dining Hall. Thus far, their investigation has met with moder­ate success and they are presently pursuing a speedy resolution of this case. 
As was reported in the October 18 edition of the Observer, a chemical compound, later identi­fled as sodium hydroxide, was found mixed in a barrel of sugar and in several salt shakers. Since that time, the Student Health Center has received no cases of mouth burning which could be related to the ingestion of the caustic substance. 
Notre Dame Security was asked to investigate the case because, in the words of Director of Security Arthur Pears, ''it obviously looked like the sugar and salt had been tampered with. How else could sodium hydroxide get into the salt shakers?" 
The Indiana State Police were also asked to assist the investi­gation because of the gravity of the matter. The decision to ask for their assistance was in no way 
· related to the fact that Notre Dame security guards no longer have St. Joseph's Count deputy status, according to Sgt. Zack of the Indian State Police. 
Commenting on the incident, Director of Food Services, Edmund Price, stated, "We are, of course, very concerned. We are also somewhat surprised that no one has gone wild because of this incident. The students have been troopers about the whole thing and we are glad there has been no recurrance of the problem." 
Because of the incident, the security at both dining halls have been tightened. "We were fortu­nate," said Price, "that our people were alert to spot the substance the first time. To prevent recurrence of this problem we are locking up both dining halls as best we can. ­
"I guess that the North dining Hall could be more easily prone to this type of problem because it is open at night for the bakers to work. But this is not to say that there is no security fo the North Dining Hall," Price commented. 
Speaking for the investigative team Pears stated, "We have received very fine cooperation from the people in the dining hall. With their help, we are much closer to a solution of the case." 

server 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's
Vol. XII, No. 41 Thursday, November 3, 1977 


WSND studios victims of theft 
by Frank Laurino valued at $480. "They were Goerner proposed additional combination locks because they . "The -unfortunate thing is that probably taken over the summer," security measures. "We've can't enter the studio in an the University's insurance doesn't 
Over $1600 in electronic equip­he said. "We didn't find them thought of getting an alarm, Detex emergency. Therefore, I doub• cover our losses," explained Goer­ment has been reported stolen from missing right away." system, closed-circuit camera sys­they'll consider the Detex." ner. "The University's insurance the studios of WSND-AM/FM, Security reports on the theft tem ... even an armed guard. But, Goerner admitted that security in policy has a 'deductible figure' so 
according to Arthur Pears, director reveal "no forcible entrv" into the of course, the costs are prohibi­O'Shaughnessy is not strict. high that the station, in effect, is of Notre Dame Security. The theft station. "It seems that somebody tive." "Somebody can get in here at any not insured." apparently occurred between 7 pm --either a station member or "The Detex system is a good time," he said. "H a door is Pears said the investigation into and midnight Oct. 28. someone else --has a key to the idea," agreed Webver. "But the locked, all you have to do is climb the stolen property "will continue 
In what Pears described as a studio and is helping himself to the University doesn't like our present through a window.'' until all the items are recovered." "quick in-and-out theft," a tape equipment," said Pears. recorder valued at $1450 was taken Goerner· agreed with the security from the station's production stu­director's opinion, although he dio in O'Shaughnessy Hall. Secur­added, "our department heads ity also indicated the disappear­don't think a staff member is 
Senior Trip consensus 'great' 
ance of a $150 microphone and a involved." bulk tape eraser valued at $50. According to Goerner, all doors 
by Maureen Eyres people. Although I bounced my explained how helpful the policeWSND department heads were leading to the studios and offices checkbook home because the city were in finding her lost car, whichreluctant to comment on the recent had key-operated locks at the time Upon returning to campus after was a little expensive, the trip was they had towed away. .
theft. However, station manager of the thefts. "Some also had 
midsemester break, the usual worth it.'' Another group of about 35Peter Goerner has previously re­combination locks," he added. 
question is "How was your Ed May found Alcatraz, the state seniors discovered how friendly the vealed that approximately $2000 in To increase station security, 
break?" For most students the park which was once a prison and San Francisco police were oneelectronic equipment had appar­WSND-FM program director Mike answer is,-"It was okay. I got to was famed for the fact that no one morning at 2 a.m. while walkingently been stolen from WSND's Karels revealed that all locks have see some friends at home." ever escaped, to be the highlight of across the Golden Gate Bridge. Anoffices and studios since last June. been changed. ''The key locks can For 427 ND-SMC seniors who the trip."I also enjoyed going on officer offered to take their pic­Goerner said that on June 14 a be rotated or removed," he said, went on the class trip to San the airplane with a bunch of people tures, and by the end of thetape deck valued at $700 was "and the combination locks can be Francisco from Oct. 23-28, the I knew. It was one big party." photo-sessions, he was in thereported stolen from the station's changed as often as we like." 
consensus is "great." Kathy Coen commented that the picture.
production closet, a storage room WSND chief of technical engi­
According to John Reid, assis­people she met in San Francisco Armed with cars, students drove for equipment. Also on that date, neering Thomas Weber explained a tant director of Student Activities were "very friendly and accomo­outside the San Francisco· area toan amplifier valued at $600 was fault with key-operated locks. "It's and chaperone for the trip, "The dating, · even the police." She [Continued on page 2]reported missing from the WSND traditionally been a problem col­
trip was a tremendous success. I
offices. lecting old keys from people," he 
received nothing but good com­
Pears added that on Sept. 12, a said. "Some people graduate and 
Reconcilation discussed
ments from the hotel staff, which is 
$200 amplifier was reported stolen take the keys with them. Others 
unusual for a group that size. The
from the AM studio. are misplaced. Consequently, 
response of the senior class was
Goerner also noted the disap­there are always keys floating 
great. Usually when the trip is not 
between science, religion
pearance of two microphones around." 
to USC, it is in the spring and fewer members of the class participate. by V aJerie Stefani movement towards an intergratton A fall trip gave people the chance of religion and science has caused
Student gov't organizes 
to meet earlier in the year." The current trend towards a rationality to suffer. A resulting Reid, added, "The one unfortun­reconciliation between science and "phenomenom" is the popularity ate part of the trip was the 8-hour religion was the topic of a lecture of the concept which maintains that 
delay of the plane leaving from presented by Eileen Barker, pro­life has lost any real meaning and South Bend which was out of our fessor at the London School of that love is the absolute truth. Economics. "Practically all religions and 

off-campus commission 
by Diane WUson odically to "share the problems of control. A letter will be sent to Senior Staff Reporter off-campus students," Gill said. passengers on that plane to answer The one hour talk, entitled secular ideologies demand fre­
Some of these problems include their questions about the delay. "Science as Theology~-The New quent justification and occasionaly Tom O'Neill, senior class trip Priesthood of Scientist," was held proof," according to Barker.
To "coordinate and centralize rents, leases, problems with land­officer commented, "I had one of yesterday in the Library Lounge Barker also discussed the risingthe concerns of off-campus life" lords, crime and security, Gill 
will be the goal of the new added. the best times I've ever had. There ·before an audience of approxi­popularity of Eastern religions, were so many things to do in San mately 25 people. The lecture was concerned with the "here and now
off-campus commission stated Joe The commission is being formed at 
Francisco that it was exciting trying sponsored by the theology, philo­of me," in retaliation to theGill, student government executive the same time as the new Campus to do it all." O'Neill also added sophy, and sociology departments. indifference and objectivity ofcoordinator. The council will be Life Council. Both will be organ­that the problem of the second Barker classified the positions of science. She has specialized in theorganized by Bro. Juste Paczesny, ized under the Student Affairs British scientists with regard to area of small, enthusiastic religious vice-president for Student Affairs, Office, but the two will be separate plane is being investigated. 
Senior Oass Trippers were tur­religious dogma into six categories, groups, particularly the Unification 
and conducted through the Student organizations. The Off-Campus Affairs Office. Commission will be responsible for ned loose in San Francisco after ranging from fundamentalism to Church of the Rev. Dr. Moon. informing Student Affairs of the arriving either Sunday afternoon or atheism. The basis for classifica­"Skepticism in skepticism has
Juste explained that the new 
needs of off-campus students, ex­Monday morning. Each group of tion is determined through a two­led to faith in faith. Science hasCommission will simply be a for­plained Juste. He added that the four students had a room in the way system: the truth or falsity of created a public ripe for a mysti­malization of a group that has Jack Tar Hotel and a rental car. scripture in both spirit and detail. cism clouded in scientific jargon,'' commission is "all advisory andalways existed to help off-campus 
suggestion" and it is a service As Chris Datzman, a passenger In recent years there has been a said Barker. 
students. The old group was run on the second plane, put it, "The reversal of the trend which held Barker concluded saying, ''theorganization for off-campus stu­through Off-campus Housing. 
. dents. · best part of the trip was between science to be the ultimate explana­new priesthood of scientists pro­When the Student Life Council The final plans on the 'commis.­the time we finally stepped off the tion for events and actions. People, vides cognitive support for ourwent out of existence so did the old 
plane and the time we got back on according to Barker, have become metaphysical beliefs." .
sion should be made within thegroup, Juste said. 

to go home." disillusioned with the coldly A short question and answernext few weeks, Juste stated, and 
While plans for the council have such things as who will. be included Commenting on what she en­detached and highly specialized period followed the lecture. Bar­not yet been finalized, according to in it membership, exactly what it joyed most about the trip, Peggy science of modern society. ker's talk was presented in con­Juste, its members will probably will do, and the meeting times will McGuire stated, "I liked being able ''The uncertainty grew that we junction with the seminar on secu­
include representatives from Stu­to walk through the city and ride could ever understand or that there larization and the future of Catholic 
lall be decided then. Juste 

dent Affairs, Off-Campus Housing the cable cars that you always see ever was an absolute truth," universities being conducted by
concluded that the long range goals 

and Student Government. 'ln the Rice-a-Roni commercials. It Barker said. Belgian professor Karel Dobbe­
for the commission1 will be decided 

The commission will meet peri-as well. was fun going places with ND Barker noted, however, that this laere. 
Thursday, November 3, 1977
the observer 




~News Briefs--------... A new form of life discovered? 
b:::::::=:=:~:::::=:::::=:::::=::::=:=::::::=:::::=:::::= National 
'I'm not afraid' 
NEW YORK-Saying she has been shunned as an entertainer, Anita Bryant declared yesterday that death threats, the potential loss of het.Iivelihood and various forms of harassment would not deter her from campaigning against homosexuality. "I'm not afraid," she said in an interview. "So they kill me. So what?" Saying that her more than $100,000-a-year job with the Florida Citrus ~OJ_nn_tission is in jeopardy, Bryant declared that she "Won't be ;ntim1da~ed." She continued: "If that's the price I have to pay for standtng as the concerned mother of my four children and to m~ke it a decent country to live in, then it's worth paying the pnce." 

Guy Lombardo 
H!J_l.JSTON ~ ~amed band leader Guy Lombardo, 75, was reported in cnt1~al cond1t!on at Methodist Hospital yesterday suffering from an undisclosed a1lme!lt. Lombardo underwent aneurysm surgery Sept. 23..The surgery Involved removal of an aneurysm, or ballooning, section of a large artery near his heart. He had left the hospital Oct 18, but reentered last Thursday. · 

Teachers need help 
INDIANAPOUS -Teachers need more resources to combat students' poor reading skills, a problem at the heart of the nation's edu_cational_woes, Health, Education and Welfare Secretary Joseph Caltfano sa1d here yesterday. "Reading is a basic problem that teachers alone can't solve," Califano told a news conference at George ~ashington Carver elementary school. "It's a problem that starts w1th troubles at home, with parents and with too much time absorbed by television.'' 

WEATHER 
There is an 80 percent chance of occasional showers and thunderstorms today. Highs in the mid to upper 60's. Showers ending and becoming cooler tonight. Lows in the low 40's. Partly cloudy and cool Friday. High in the mid SO's. 

rOn Campus Today_-----.. 
4:30 pm lecture, "the complex monge-ampere equation," by prof. b. a. taylor, univ. of mich. sponsored by the math dept . rm 226 ccmb, open to the public. 
6:30 pm film, "william blake, poet, artist, and religious thinker," howard hall, free 
7 pm career workshop, resume clinic with mary ann daly, rm 161 lemans. 
7, 9 & film "silent movie" sponsored by student union, 11 pm eng aud, $1. 
8 pm faculty recital, guitarist jeffrey noonan, sponsored by smc music dept, little theater smc. 
12:10 pm film, laurel & hardy, darby's place. 
Friday 
6:30 am a.m. this morning, featuring mike ridenour and mary corbett, on wsnd 640 a.m. 


Senior Trip review 
[Continued from page 1) places such as Lake Tahoe, where students saw old "Blue Eyes" in a night club act and did some gambling. Stan Ziherl said he won $80. Another popular spot for stu­dents was Napa Valley, California's renowned wine country. Tim Zweber stated, "The view from the Anheiser-Busch Bre­wery's courtesy room was my favorite." Zweber had taken a private tour of the new brewery arranged for the ND-SMC seniors. Mary White commented "San Francisco will never forget who Notre Dame is. I never sang the Fight Song so many times in one week." On the final day of the trip, the USC band and cheerleaders checked into the Jack Tar Hotel. ND-SMC students were trying on their Trojan helmets and parading around with the Sports lllustrated headlines,"They Were Dressed to Kill." That night, those students waiting to leave on the second plane went to a USC pep rally at the hotel. Pat Flynn, senior class president 
.!-:I'"'IT19., ,'J Sfci\'1 \ i9'(01q~"T;:J 
said, "I've never seen a-city that 
could ·captivate so many interests. 
Everybody could be entertained in 
San Francisco. The logistic prob­
lems of the delayed plane were 
overruled by the city." 
For Flynn, the highlight of the trip was going into any restaurant and being recognized as a Notre Dame student. "They all wanted to hear the Fight Song," he said. 
It is apparent, that all those seniors who "left their hearts in San Francis~o." want to go back. 


N~h;n~.,c!~T~r.~~~
Asst. Ntght Editor: Lauri 
McNulty layout Staff: Phlip Hannigan Sports layout: Bob Keen Paul Stevenson ' 
Typists: Gwen Coleman, Mary McCormick, Beth Rizzo Lisa DiValerio ' Night Controller: Mardi Nevin 
Day .Editor: Kathy Connelly Copy Reader: Jack Rizzolato Ann Chafes ' Ad Layout: Paula Carroll 
Photographer: Greg Trzupek 
~i•i"1•Ji ."Y~O 

W ASIDNGTON [AP] -A micro­scopic organism previously thought to be ordinary bacteria actually is a 
_§eparate form of life and may be 
the oldest living thing on earth, it 
was announced yesterday. 
The major development could provide new clues to the unknown stages of evolution that immedi~ ately preceded the development of life as it is known today, scientists said. 
The discovery by a University of Illinois research team was an­nounced jointly by the National Science Foundatiop and the Na­tional Aeronautics and Space Ad­
ministration  which  funded  the  
work.  
The  team  led by  Dr.  Carl  R.  

Woese, Dr. RalphS. Wolfe and Dr. George Fox discovered the organ­ism's uniqueness by analyzing its genetic compostion. 
Science tradtionally divides liv­ing organisms into two basic types, the "higher" forms of animals and plants, and the "lower" forms of bacteria. 
The researchers say their or­ganism, which lives without oxygen and produces methane gas as its waste product, fits neither group. 
''The organisms are a distinct new class, no more related to 
St. Mary's 8-ba/1 lottery winners act now! 
Winners of the basketball ticket lottery at St. Mary's are asked to make a check payable to the Notre Dame Athletic Department in the amount of $22.50 and to turn it in at the St. Mary's Student Activity Office, 166 LeMans, no later than this Friday. Only bleacher seats are available. 
Dates to pick up season passes will be announced by the Univer­sity of Notre Dame. St. Mary's students will be able to sit with ND students. 
Students listed who do not turn in their checks by Friday will be eliminated from the lottery and a completely new listing will be posted for remaining tickets on Monday Nov. 7. If there is to be a new listing on Monday, those student checks will be due no later than Tuesday, Nov. 8. 
All deadlines are final and no checks will be accepted after the dates listed above. If you have any questions, please call Mary Laver­ty, Director of Student Activities at 4319. 
The Observer Is published Mon­day tllrough Friday except during exam and vacation periods. Tile Observer Is published by tile students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased tor no per y..r (S I o per semester) from The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, lndlane 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Indiana, 46556. . The Observer Is a member of the Associated Press. All repro­duction rights are reserved. 
typical bacteria than to higher forms," W oese said. "They are a third form of life on this planet.'' 
W oese said this type of organism _probably evolved during the first billion years of earth's 4.6 billion year existence when conditions would not sustain other known forms of life. 
Its ability to live without oxygen in temperatures greater than 170 degrees Fahrenheit means that it probably could have survived on 
• earth at that time. The atmosphere then was composed of hydrogen and carbon dioxide and tempera­tures were very warm. Woese says the methane-producing organisms are best suited for these conditions. The traditional theory of two lines of evolution is based largely on the hypothesis that all life came from a common ancestor, probably a simple primal cell. The meth­ane-producing organism may be an early offspring of this common ancestor that precedes even bac­teria, the scientists said. W oese said in an interview that discovery of a third evolutionary line opens the possibility that even more lines sprang rom the common ancestor. 
''This discovery is very impor­tant from a biologist's view of 
studying evolution," Woese said. 
"This allows a lot more perspec­
tives and choices when there is 
disagreement on a question that 
can't be resolved using two lines of 
descent." 
The methane-producing organ­
ism technically called methano­
bacteria thermoautotrophica, is 
widespread in nature even though 
it is killed by oxygen. It exists in 
hot thermal springs and in decay­
ing plant material and the digestive 
systems of some other animals 
where other organisms use up all 
the oxygen. , 
The Illinois team found that the 
organisms' basic genetic material, 
ribosonal RNA, was distinctly dif­
ferent from the RNA of bacteria 
and "higher" cells. This was the 
key evidence that the methane­
producing organisms ~represent a 
unique evolutionary I!!Je.__ 
Demo club officer nominations 
Any member of the Young Democrats Club who wishes to run for a club office must call Paul Falduto at 3454 before next Wed­nesday. Elections will be held at 7 
p.m. next Thursday in Room 2D of LaFortune. 

Notre Dame St_!Jdent Union & Suns_hine Present 

SATURDAY NOVEMBER 5 7:30pm 
NOTRE DAME A.C.C. All Seats Reserved; $8.50 & $7.50 
On sale now at: 
ACC box office, Student ticket office, Robertson's-S. 
Bend & Conmrd ""all, First Bank-Main Branch only, 
St. Joe Bank & all branches, Boogie Recnrds, Just For 
The Recnrd, The Remrd Joint-Niles, The Elkhart Troth 
and Suspended Cord in Elkhart River City Records, S. Bend 
~ 
.An Evening with Someone Special 

Nov. 8 7:30pm O'Laughlin Aud. s1 adm.
Remember Sounder? Autobiography of Miss Jane Pittman? ·Roots? 
Open to ND/SMC Communityf· Sponsored by SMC Student Government 
..... . .. ~-· 


Thursday, November J, 1977 the observer 

University, Teamsters disagree on size of union 

by Marian Ulicny Senior Staff Reporter 

Current focus on Notre Dame groundskeepers' attempts to unionize lies in the conflict between the Teamsters Local 346 and the University in designating the ap­propriate unit of employees to be covered by possible unionization. 
The Teamsters wish to limit a possible union to the 21 grounds­keepers, but the University lists 413 employees in the "Service and Maintenance" category, all of whom "operate under the same personnel policies and guidelines," according to Thomas J. Mason, vice-president for Business Affairs. 
The administration wants to consider all413 workers if a union is formed. In this case, laundry workers, maids and janitors, the Athletic and Convocation Center staff, golf course crew and others would be included, in addition to the groundskeepers. "It seems to us that this is a far more reasonable approach both for the University and its employees than to be subjected to segmentation tactics by the Teamsters," Mason stated. 
According to Bernard Dobranski, 
professor of labor law, this con-
Baroni stresses the importance of the neighborhood in solving city problems 
by Leo C. Hansen 

Until recently, the church was the integral unit behind neighborhood organization,and was a source of community integrity as well as spiritual leadership. When church and parish interest declined, so did the neighborhood, and such idealistic concepts as "place" and "space" were also lost. 
There is a new wave of interest in the neighborhood and the tasks of resurgence, revitali­zation, renewal, re-evaluation and self-improve-They core strength. 
2. 
Rates of growth and effects of growth vary with their impact upon cities in regions ofthe U.S. These differences must be taken into account, if we are to assume a pro-urban, pro-city policy. 

3. 
We must revise national thinking to encourage conservation of our scarce energy and resources. Cities are our best place to start because they use less energy and have an existing capital structure. 

4. 
The Federal Government has done a great deal to assist cities. More needs to be done since so many of the problems are beyond the power of the city to control. 

5. 
Arbitrary and inflexible urban boundaries are the cause of many of our urban problems, particularly fiscal and financial problems. 

6. 
Most city problems are caused by the factors of poverty and economic and social segreation. 


"People live in neighborhoods. Ifneighborhoods die, cities die," claims Baroni. "Neighborhoods are essentially the building blocks of cities. If 
Monsignor Geno Baroni addressed the Catholic Committee of Urban Ministry yesterday. [Photo by Greg Trzupek] 
ment. A more immediate goal is neighborhood preservation and conservation. 
Perhaps one of the greatest spokesmen for this riew national awareness is a Monsignor Geno Baroni, the first Catholic clergyman to hold a Cabinet post in the United States. Baroni addressed the Catholic Committee of Urban Ministry (CCUM), on the last day of its annual conference held at the ACC. CCUM was founded ten years ago and is now located at Notre Dame, with Sr. Margaret Cafferty as executive director. 
Baroni was recently appointed assistant secretary for Neighborhood and Non-governmental Organiza­tions and Consumer Protection for the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD). His goals are urban revitalization, freedom of choice in housing and adequate low income housing for the poor. · 
The latter of these tasks seems the most challenging when compared to existing conditions. 
2.5 million households in the United States have no bathrooms. 600,000 have plumbing inadequacies. 
4.5 million households live in overcrowded condi­tions. 
Providing housing that people are·able to afford is the most distressing issuet 5 million homeowners have mort~age payments of ~ver 25 per cent of their troversial labor unit is "a classi­fication of job groupings." The employees in such a unit should display a community of similar interests regarding their jobs, he said. 
I Defining this labor unit is a basic ingredient of the general · · unionization procedure, Dobranski explained. First, employees must express interest in forming a union, or a union must be interested in organizing a group of employees. To elicit support for the procedure, union officals circulate authoriza­tion cards among the employees until a sufficient number of workers have signed. "This number varies, but most unions want a little over SO percent in order to have a majority," Dobranski noted. The second step can take two courses. After obtaining a majority of authorization cards, union .spokesmen will approach the em­ployer and request voluntary recog­nition of the union. On the other hand, union leaders may choose to directly file an election petition. "Of course, if an employer refuses voluntary recognition, the only alternative is to flle the petition," Dobranski stated. · Under the National Labor 'Rela­

income. Another 10.5 million families pay rent that 
exceeds 25 per cent of their income.  60 per cent of  
American  families  cannot  afford  to  buy  the  
moderately priced home.  

Baroni is currently producing guidelines ·for a national urban policy on neighborhoods. "There is no lobby for families or neighborhoods in Washing­ton," he notes. "Urban Renewal and freeways destroyed many neighborhoods. Urban Renewal destroyed more houses than it built.'' He made the following assumptions about a national policy to reverse the trends of the 60's: 
1. This is a nation of cities. Cities are important to 
society. They should not be allowed to deteriorate. form the of cultural and economic 

neighborhoods work, cities work." 
President Jimmy Carter, in his recent plunge into the urban areas of Detroit and New York City, was asked many questions about neighborhoods, accord­ing to Baroni, who accompanied him on the tours. "When Carter went to the Bronx," he remarked, ''the only patch of hope was a community development group that was trying to do something 
about  housing  for  themselves  and  their  own  
people."  
That  he  feels  is  the  directive  of  the  urban  

strategists, today: to encourage and stimulate as well as assist individual neighborhoods to become . involved in their own community survival. 
Participation is the key to a lasting and complete 
answer to the problems of our cities. 
Baroni called upon the conference coalition to support the neighborhood cause. "The church," he told the CCUM delegates, "is one of the most important existing networks in our neighborhoods and cities." 
Working with HUD and the Carter Administration he wants to create neighborhood jobs to rehabilitate housing, and to institute a lot of social services, which, he says, can be done for a lot less money, with the people in the neighborhood doing it themselves. The government cannot do it all alone, Baroni points out, it needs the support of the 
. community and the neighborhood. "The govern­:ment can do a lot of things, but it can't love 
children." 

tions Board (NLRB) act, a petition may be filed by a union with the appropriate regional office. It constitutes a claim on the union's part to represent the employees in the described unit. The petition must be accompanied by a "showing of interest"·on the part of the employees, Dobranski emphasized, adding, "The typical way to show this is by using the authorization .cards. They must have 30 percent, but the union usually prefers more since they 
don't want  an  election  unless  
they're  reasonably  sure  they'll  
win."  

The NLRB regional office will 
examine the petitioned unit to 
exclude workers with conflicting 
,interests. The unit will be judged on similarity in the following criteria: wage scales, employee benefits, hours, skills and training, amount of contact and employee interaction within the unit, geo­graphic proximity within the workplace and supervision. How the employer defines his labor relations policies to the workers and how each is affected by such policies are also considered. Once the NLRB regional director 
defines the appropriate unit, an 
election may be scheduled within it. However, if the director finds another unit better for the situa­tion, the union ml\St demonstrate a showing of interest in that desig­nated appropriate unit. 
"The union asked for a unit of 21 groundskeepers. Ifthat isn't found to be appropriate and the Univer­sity's unit is right, then the union must show interest in 30 oercent of 413 workers," Dobranski commented, adding, "That's the battle at this point--resolving the appropriate unit--since the Univer­sity and the union differ on the unit's definition." 
''With a few months the NLRB will determine the appropriate unit, and the election machinery will start acting," Dobranski stated. "This process varies from regional office to regional office as to how fast it moves. The local one 
still  has  funding  problems,  and  
that's why the first  hearing  was  
postponed," he added.  

According to Dobranski, "the union has indicated that a few actions taken by the University have been unfair, but, to date, they 
1have not flied any unfair labor .practice suits. . 
.......••••••• • ••• • • • • • 
• w...~.. • 
•• e Special 10% Discount •e 
: On All Merchandise To Notre Dame : 
• · & Saint Mary's Students. . 'e, 
Teamsters were disturbed that 
the University relayed the informa­
tion of the groundskeepers' pas­
sible layoff through a South Bend 
Tribune article before personally 
informing the workers. "That is, 
perhaps, a bad tactic on the part of 
the employer, but in itself, it 
doesn't constitute an unfair labor 
practice," he remarked. 
If the University planned to substitute automation for the groundskeepers as a punitive action against possible unionizing, that activity would form the basis of unfair labor practice, Dobranski explained. "The employer may institute planned changes for economic reasons regardless of whether a union is organized or not, but he may not institute such changes as a reprisal to the union. The question is what the em­ployer's motivation is," he stated. 
If the University proves its' actions regarding automation were completely independent of union activities, there would be con­ditions for an unfair labor practices suit. "Of course, this situation is purely hypothetical since no suit has been filed so far," Dobranski ~e~~d.. . . 
~~~~ 
~,...,~UNITED ~TECHNOLOGIES 

An Equal Opportunity Employer I Male & Female 
' ¥ 



Thursday, November 3, 1977
the observer 


Women's Career Center moves offices 
The Women's Career Center, a career counseling service run by and for women, will establish its offices in the YWCA effective Nov. 1 in an effort to consolidate women's services in Northern In­diana. 
The announcement was made jointly by the presidents of the boards of directors of the two organizations, Mrs. Donna Lind­berg of the YWCA and Paula Auburn of the Women's Career Center. 
Lindberg noted that the two groups have offered joint programs in the past and that the move will merely solidify an existing relation-
H£Kf fO HORfH VIlLAGE MALL 

HELD OVER:20th WEEK 

ENDS TON ITE-6 :45 only 

413 Hickory Rd. S. Bend 
~~=r"SILVER STREAK' -PG­
WEEKDAYS 6:45-9:15

STARTS FRIDAY 
SAT-SUN 1:45-4:15-6:45-9:15 

''A lovely, lively film ... an adult entertainment in the best sense of the word:' 
TIME MAGAZINE 

"A love story with class, and very high class at that:' 
NEW YORK POST 
Judith Crist 

"A triumph of taste ... sensitive, poetic and intelligent:' 
PLAYBOY 
Bruce Williamson 

•~ SCOTTSDALE __ ~RIVER PARK . 
M1shawaka Avenue at 30th Town & Country Shoppmg enter 
Telephone 291-4583 
Telephone 288-8488 

Telephone 259-9090
1 2 
DAMNATION ALLEY 1:30-4:00-6:30-9:00
FRI 2:00-4:3Q-7:0Q-9:15 
SHOWS FRI & WEEKDAYS 7:30-9:30 

1:45-3:45-5:45-7:45-9:45
Tindin~ tftc one 11011 love.
' . 
THIRD BIG WEEK 
i~ li1tdin~ 1/0ttl:-.l'lt.
' . 
SAT & SUN 1:30-3:30-5:3Q-7:30-9:30 
~~A'" 
,,~~,~· 

Flash 
ship. "Because we share the same goals, we see a natural alliance between the YWCA and the Carrer Center," she said. "In fact, the YWCA national standards adopted in 1976 have committed us specifi­caJly to providing supportive ser­vices to help women find adequate income and economic opportuni­ties." 
Auburn, who also is a member of the YWCA board of directors, said ''We expect this association to allow us to expand our services as well as to increase our opportuni­ties for obtaining financial support. 
By working together in one location, we can offer women 
this friday and every friday 5 :15 mass & supper 
In Dolby Stereophonic Sound! 
.sfAA.HAA.S 


access to a central agency that 
offers a variety of programs and 
meets many needs." 
Auburn also announced a new 
schedule of programs which will be 
offered beginning in November: 
Job Readiness Training. This workshop teaches the skills needed for an effective job search and includes skills and interest asses­ment, resume writing, tips on researching jobs, and practice in­terviews. Conducted by Judy Reeves and Judy Malkiewicz, it will be held from 7 to 9 p.m. Mondays and Wednesdays beginning Nov. 7 and ending Nov. 30. The cost is $35 for the six-session series. 
Assertiveness Training. In small group sessions, women Jearn and practice assertive behavior skills to build their self-confidence in busi­ness and personal situations. The by MJke Ridenour group will meet from 7 to 9 p.m. on Staff Reporterfive Thrusdays, Nov. 10 and 17 and Dec. 1, 8 and 15. Counselors are Answering questions before an Andrea Yokich and Carol Muessel, informal gathering of 30 students and the cost is $30 for the series. in Holy Cross Hall last night, 
Individual Career CounseUng James Roemer, dean of students, and Planning. Appointments may explat'ned that ht's · b · ti
JO IS grea Y [Continued on page 9] misunderstood around campus. .
r--------...;;...;-.-..____________...., 
Sir Victor's Discount Liquor 

Beer Specials 
QUARTS 
Busch $5.80 Stroh's $6.25 Hamm's s5.69 Carling s5.69 
CANS 
Stroh's  12 oz.  s5.19 case  
Falstaff  12 oz  s4.79 case  
Miller  12 oz. s6.98 case  

Lowest Beer Prices in Town! 
Special Uquor Discounts to NO -SMC students Call ahead for orders -288-9731 
~TOWN &COUNTRY 1&2 
JAN-MICHAEL VINCENT GEORGE PEPPARD 
---~-~~-~---~-----------------------­
Gordon 
Fri and Sat 12 midnight 
.-:-.~~tt\;:.!iwt."\;\~<l~'-~~·. R...~­
gtous ommtsstons irid are free. 

case case 
..._ 
' 
"Where does all the paranoia come from,?"Roemer remarked, "I spend only about 20 percent of my time for disciplinary action. A Jot of my time is spend on positive actions mostly with student af­fairs." 
Responding to the questions concerning the abolishment of the 
'University Judicial Board and 
Appeals Board, Roemer reiterated his feelings on the controversy by citing a few reasons for the decision. "There is a Jot of responsibility placed on the stu­dents and I feel they didn't perform well under the stress of hearing another student's case." Roemer also said that problems of confiden­tiality arose with the students hearing cases. 
Another reason for the board's departure, according to Roener, was that the students hearing the cases "may have t'actual informa­tion and that's not part of the judicial process." 
Along with the dismissal of the Boards came the removal of direct student participation in the discip­linary process. Yet, Roemer countered, "Students do have a say in picking the panel (Review Board)." 
Roemer said a lot of cases that come before him are not simple. "Many of these cases are very complex in nature" he explained. "But it's better off with the dean of students rather than the local authorities. There, you can have a criminal record with a mis­demeanor whereas that's not the case here." 
Touching briefly on the subject of coed dorms, Roemer pointed to several factors hampering the move. "The halls here are not structured for coed dorms; the physical setup is not conducive," henoted. Roemer mentioned that the lack of social space plus a revenue problem are roadblocks ahead. 
In a closing statement, Roemer stated he liked his job. "I get some flack from the students, but that's okay. There are a Jot of good things that come with the job." 
Sailing pix today 
Sailing Club members take note: 
Club pictures will be taken today 
at 4:30 p.m. down by the boat 
house. 
Winners of the Sailing Club's 
raffle, held last night, are: 1st 
place, Colette Pawlak of LeMans; 
2nd place, Janice Tegeler of 
Regina; and 3rd place, Bob Juba of 
Zahm . 
. Howard Hall 
presents film 
Howard Hall will present a film 
series on the Jives and work of 
three "great Christian thinkers." 
The series will consist of three · one-hour documentaries. "William Blake" will be shown tonight in Howard Hall at 6:30p.m. 
"Leo Tolstoy" will be shown on 
Nov. 8, followed by "Dietrick 
Bonhoeffer" on Nov. 16. 
The films are sponsored by the 



/ 
------~----~~~--------~~-------~----------------~------------~--------------------~--------~ 
Thursday, November 3, 1977 
the observer
FRENCH 1HEA1ER 

F.ug!ne lornro, ra Contart:e ~, and Jacques Ptaf!/1, 'La!inrJqud? loJirmienl' .(sketcres)
PRESENTED BY 
le Tretmu de Rois and le 1hm1re de b J-Izx:ktte in Rois 
SUNDAY NOVEMBER 6, 1977 2pm. O'LAUGHLIN AUDIIDRIUM, Sf. MARYS CDLLEGE 

Student Tid<ets for $2.00 are available in the Department of Modem and Classical Languages, 304 O'Shaugnessy Hall. 
• (General adnission $3.00) 
JUGGLER 

Notre Dame's journal of the arts Now accepting for publication: 
poetry, fiction, drama1 art, photography ••. 

Submit material to English office, 309 O'Shag 
extended deadline November 9 

open Fri. & Sat. till  voc /( d\  
Midnight  LIQUOR  
~0 R \.-~  
Pabst  $539  
case  
Busch  $579  Old Chicago 
case  
Strohs  $579  $149  
6 packs'  
·aIstaff s269 12 pack (bottles)  ·  Windsor  
Blatz  s269  qt  
12 pack  

Old Style1!:;~:ks2a9 
Strohs 16oz case Rum$498 $687 qt 
Scotch$5~~

Miscellaneous Cases of Beer 
Saint Mary's Counseling Center to sponsor behavior seminar 
by Honey McHugh 

The St. Mary's Counseling Ceo­ter is currently sponsoring a work­shop series geared toward elimi­nating self-defeating behavior pat­terns. The seminar will begin this Monday and will be held once a week for four consecutive weeks. 
The workshop will be led by Suzanne Areson, director of the SMC Counseling Center, and Gail Ritchie, assistant director of the center. 
According to Areson, the format for each two hour session will be structured, unlike similar encoun­ter groups. Areson said that there will be a limit of 20 students per group in order to provide maximum individual attention. 
The basic format of the program 
'Sattelite One' open house·{ need po.-st-er-si_n_a.......,. 
by Ed Callahan 

There will be an open house 
today at the new audio-visual 
theatre," Sattelite One," from noon 
to five p.m. The theatre is located 
in 242 0' Shaughnessy. 
The theatre is an expansion of 
the A V Center, and thus the name 
"Sattelite One." The theatre was 
built with environmental controls, 
and provides a confortable visual, 
acoustical and thermal viewing 
area and projection booth. 
Numerous features ofthe theatre 
were designed with these aspects 
in mind. There are black-out 
shades, adjustable lights and a 
wide screen which is capable of 
projecting two simultaneous im­
ages. Acoustically, the theatre has 
a carpeted floor, draperies, sound­
proof booth and an external 
speaker system. 
The main services are 16 mm. 
projection and slide projection, but 
almost any other A V function can 
be handled. The theatre has . filmstrip projection, overhead 
Rear Admiral O'Conner , to speak at reception 
Rear Admiral John J. O'Connor, CHC, USN, chief of Navy chap­lains, will be the guest speaker at a combined Navy-Marine Corps Anniversary Ceremony and Recep­tion at 4:45 p.m. Friday in the Memorial Library Auditorium. The celebration will be sponsored by Notre Dame's Naval ROTC Unit. 
A brief recognition of the 202nd anniversary of the founding of the Navy and Marine Corps will be followed by the reception in the adjoining lounge. 
O'Connor is a Catholic priest of the Archdiocese of Philadelphia who was elevated to the rank of Monsignor by Pope Paul VI in 1966. Today, Monsignor O'Connor 
. is Chief of the Chaplain Corps of the Navy. O'Connor began active duty as a Navy chaplain in 1952. Since then 
SENIORS 
Who will be OUR Senior Class Fellow? 
Nominate your choice today! 
in dining halls, Huddle, .La Fortune and Senior Bar 
he has served with units of both the Navy and the Marine Corps. As a result of his expefiences in Viet­nam, he wrote A Chaplain Looks at Vietnam, for which he received the Navy League's Alfred Thayer Mahan Award as the outstanding work of its kind in 1969. 
Guy Fawkes_ hold reunion 
The annual reunion of the Guy Fawkes Society will be held this 
Saturday at 8:30 p.m. at the home 
of Prof. J.Bauer, 1230 Black Oak 1------..------t 
Drive, South Bend. 
Membership in the society is open to all persons who have lived in England. Membership, which may be obtained at the reunion, is 
$2. 
was first developed by-Milton Cudney, profesSO!' of counseling at Western Michigan University, stated Areson. As a psychologist, Cudney analyzed the process of continution self-defeating beha­vior. His workshops were concen­trated efforts to help people change such behavior as smoking, over­eating, procrastination and shy­ness. 
The SMC Counseling Center will follow Cudney's guidelines in helping students to understand the 
· pattern of self-defeating behavior. "The emphasis is on the process," stated Areson. "We will help students to work on whatever behavior gets in their way." Once the pattern has been eliminated, individual problems of any nature can be solved, she added. 
transparencies and opaque projec­tion, but anything not supplied by Sattelite One can be found by the AV Center. 
Sattelite One has a seating capacity of 55, and any faculty member on campus can schedule the theatre for any media presen­tation. Other highlights include the capacity for blending one slide into the next with no dark inter­lude, remote control of slides from the front of the room, and the availability of T.V. cameras and videotape recorders for small scale productions. 
This is actually a rerun of the October open house according to the Director of the Office of Educational Media, Sr. Elaine DesRosiers. ''The first open house was very well attended. The eighty or so people who were there have probably told others about the theatre, and thus we are having this 'rerun' open house,'' she said. 
Refreshments will be served at the open house . 
Candidates for the series will be interviewed prior to the workshops in order to determine if their needs fit the go~ls of the program. The program offers no miracle cures or guarantees, Areson stressed, merely a method to help students become aware of their limitations in order to make their own chan­
ges. 
''The way the human system is designed, when any of us does something that works against us, there are negative results,'' Ares on remarked. "These results are there to tell us we need to change." 
Although the number is limited, there are still a few spots available. 
Students may sign up at the Counseling Center, 165 LeMans Hall by tomorrow. For further information, interested students should call 4835. 
4-3 a.m. daily 1132 S. Bend 
Ave. 
dosed Sun.
Phone 
and Mon.
289-0639 
hurry? 

• • 1
•nsly·pr•nls 
the wiz of the printingbiz! 
100-11 x17 posters 1 Only $10.00, 
203 N. Main SoBend 289-6977 
·Bar-B-Que & 
1.~; 
Restaurant ~ ..and 
Lounge 
Featuring -the finest in hickory smoked . barbeque-moked over an open pit with special 
sauce 
.75 or $1.00 Pitcher's of Beer with Dinner 
HAPPY HOUR DAILY 
4-7 p.m. 
Pitchers $1.25-$1.50 Beer.35 

~ 


----r ----------­
---"--""!""'---------:----~-----­
Thursday, November 3, 1977
the observer 

~ 
r 
r 

It finally comes down to commitment. 
When you don't like a course, it's hard to excel. The class gets tedious. The texts get boring. The lectures get dreadful. Your work suffers. And so do your grades. 
Compare that with the courses you really believe in. You care more. You try more. And without even noticing, you just naturally do better. 
It's true in school. It's true outside of school. 
For example, we believe there's just one way to brew , Busch beer. The natural way. With natural ingredients. ­Natural carbonation. Natural ageing. 
We believe that's the best way to brew a beer. And when you believe in what you're doing, you just naturally do it better. Taste a Busch and we thiltk you'll agree. 
BUSCH. 
When)UU belie\-e inwhat YQUre doing, you just naturally do it better. 
Anheuser-Busch. Inc .. 81. Loutt. Mo 

••.•. ~.-·.• ... 't • ; , ,, 1o' ''\ '\' t '•\ I , \ ., , -., , 4 ' • · -~I I,
:i::..:~··''~\~ .• :, ::··,~;~. ;.::':: ~~· "·,' ·.··...:.. '...\ '-·~· .· . _:. ·-~ ~-'4.·~· •. ·.,·.·~·:. :"• _· ..··.~~. :•~ ····\•.... ,·.,.-: 
.· .• /.,\....... ~··_; .... ~. ; ...· -~) t ~·~ .,

~ .. ~--.~· • : \~('•.'li,.l!····~-,.~ ,·, 'l ... ~-~ .,.. ,_;.'•4 
... 

THE UNITED STATES 
Thursday, November 3, 1977 
the observer 

AND SOUTH AFRICA 

Peter Walshe 

Editor's Note: Peter Walshe was born in Johannesburg, South Africa. He received his degrees from Oxford University England and taught for several years fu Lsotho [southern Africa]. He Is currently a professor of government at Notre Dame. He wUI speak at the South Africa Workshop to be held Sunday, November 6, from 1:00 to 5:00 p.m. in the Architecture 
Auditorium.] 
Southern Africa has been in the head­lines: the coup in Portugal followed by independence for Mozambique; civil war, the South African army and Cubans in Angola; the United Nations versus South Africa in Namibia; guerilla warfare and the Anglo-American proposals for Rhodesia; ferocious repression of black protests in South Africa, bannings, arrests and recently over twenty prison deaths ­including that of Steve Biko. The Security Council is now considering arms and economic sanctions. 
This regional ferment is not simply the result of racial discrimination and counter­vailing violence. It is not a situation that can be adequately analyzed in terms of dismantling color-bars and encouraging the equivalent of a civil rights movement ­a process with which most Americans would feel at ease. More awkward issues have to be addressed and they go to the heart of United States foreign policy. These issues can be seen most clearly in the core state, the Republic of South Africa. 
South Africa has its own complex history of black and white interaction, an industrial revolution sparked by the discovery of diamonds and gold in the late 19th century, the rise of white Afrikaner nationalism and 
. the reassertion of deeply rooted patterns of segregation under the more recently coined term apartheid. In essence, white financial power (controlled at first by Britain and English-speaking South Afri­cans) and white political power (controlled by Afrikaners of Dutch and German descent) have used black labor to develop a rapidly urbanizing economy. At the same time that labor has been denied civil rights in the economy it was creating. This systematic racial discrimination has been built around a legal fiction that black laborers are migratory, that is temporary sojourners, in the 87 percent of South Africa which is reserved by law for white property rights and white political power. 
The vast majority of South Africans are therefore impersonally used as labor units and told to focus their political aspirations on their "homelands" or Bantustans where they do not work and live -the decaying overpopulated agricultural back­
waters comprising 13 percent of South Africa's land mass. The Transkei was the first of these backwaters to be offered political independence. Although this occurred in October 1976, the territory has yet to obtain diplomatic recognition and its statehood should be ignored as a shallow maneuver to entrench white supremacy over the wealth of South Africa. 
Apartheid is therefore an efficient means for the exploitation of man by man, and the recent black uprisings give a glimpse of the suppressed tensions arising from system­atic injustice. Racial discrimination in the core state has been used to reinforce class exploitation with United States corpora­tions increasingly a major part of the system. Indeed, the investment and technical expertise of these corporations have been crucial in building up mining, atomic power, chemical, vehical and electronics industries. These industries have bolstered white power, functioning in part as the economic base for the South African military, police and surveillance systems. 
Opposition to racial and economic ex­ploitation has existed in South Africa throughout the 20th century. Africans passed resolutions, dispatched delega­tions, petitions and moral appeals for almost half a century before turning to passive resistance in the 1950's. Their organizations, the African National Con­gress and Pan Africanist Congress, were then banned in 1960 and forced under­ground. In the years following this repression, the United States offered verbal condemnation of apartheid while the build-up of corporate investment increased sharply. Simultaneously the liberation movements were neglected. 
After sixteen years of rumbling discon­tent and draconian repression, black student protests erupted again in late 1976 and have spread to the major South African cities. For a brief moment, three-quarters of Johannesburg's black workers withheld their labor in solidarity with the young leaders of the black consciousness move­ment. These protests have been ruthlessly crushed. Over six hundred demonstrators have been shot, thousands arrested, hundreds held without trial and new legislation rushed through the white parliament to entrench still further the race and class privilege of apartheid. Prime Minister Vorster and his government have rededicated themselves to maintaining the system. Withir. the last few days black effectively under the constraints of public newspapers have been silenced, another policy aud pried loose from alliances with 
batch of leading dissidents banned or foreign elites. As pools of skilled imprisoned, and eighteen organizations administrators, research teams and inno­declared illegal including the South African vators, these.corporations could still assist students Organization,. the Black Peoples third world countries-whether socialist or Convention and the Christian Institute. 
otherwise -but on a contractual basis 

The South African Council of Churches and rather than by direct investment and the Catholic Bishops Conference have controlling interests. Just as the United warned again that the country faces civil States trades with the USSR and China, so war and that to fight in the defense of economic co-operation with third world apartheid is to fight an unjust war, · 
areas could continue to evolve -but not 
through the politically manipulative con­

United States policy in Southern Africa duit of transnational corporations. In this has been a classic cold war strategy: a way a new flexibility would enter our search for regional stability, support for foreign policy options and America mightanti-Communist governments and the then avoid recurrent failures in Southern maintenance of an arena for increasing Africa, and elsewhere, as resistance corporate investment. On the one hand mounts to racial and class exploitation. 
~------------------------­
Robert Sobukwe, leader of 
the Pan-Africanist Congress: 
Imprisoned and banned 



Beyers Naude, Director, Christian Institute: 
Banned 

Nelson Mandela, leader of 
the African National Congress · 
Imprisoned for life 


South Africa's policies have been deplored The world is more complex and poten­in principle, yet the United States has been tially decentralized than Moscow, Wash­deepening its presence in the apartheid ington, the Chase Manhattan or General system. Over three hundred leading Motors would have us believe. Egalitarian corporations are involved. Profits are what movements struggling to redistribute matter and these corporations are en­resources and to establish participatory trenched in the profit-producing system of democracies may be repressed as techni­apartheid. Moreover they have shown cally equipped dictatorships proliferate; determined resistance to the efforts of but this is not inevitable, and the latent American churches to prise them loose. It radical hope in America's past should be is here that Notre Dame must begin to put revivified to work against that dictatorial its own house in order and examine its future. To accept this challenge and work investment portfolio. effectively against privilege, Americans 
To become the hope of the poor and must recognize that their economic history oppressed, America must shift its support is not for export. Capitalist modes of from entrenched and increasingly ruthless growth cannot be transplanted to third elites. This will be peculiarly difficult as it world areas without producing grotesque involves encouraging populist national injustices. Transnational corporations are movements with socialist ideologies and, not the cutting edge of salvation history. given past history, anti-American predi­If we recognize injustice, abandon the lections. These movements are neverthe­conspiracy theory of populist revolution, less essentially nationalist with egalitarian and realize that there is a worldwide hopes. While concerned to limit the problem of controlling the transnational privileges of local elites and transnational corporations, then the way will have been corporations, they are not the hand­opened to an alternative foreign policy in maidens of Moscow or China anymore than which radical socialist movements in the they choose to be the blind devotees of third world would not have to gravitate to Paris, London, or Washington. An the Soviet or Chinese blocs. National 
-
alternative to present policies is to stop economic orders could be encouraged to identifying populist and socialist move­set their own priorities; we would have to ments with a Communist conspiracy (even limit our material greed, but America could if the Communist powers do fish in become a major source of democratic troubled waters), and to recognize these inspiration. South Africa may help us to movements as the local struggle for understand this. economic and political justice. At the same (The author acknowledges the permission time our transnational corporations will of Commonweal to draw on material have to be disciplined, that is brought published on Aprill, 1977.) 

Thursday, November 3, 1977
the observer

8 
Off campus residences burglarized 
by Jerry Perez "It's obvious someone's bewen it again," Palma said. "They will 
watching the house," claimed certainly notice any new equipment 
Twelve off-campus residences Frank Laurino, one of Young's carried into the residence." She were burglarized during a period house-rnates. "Both burglaries also explained that second-time from October 3 to 26 according to have taken place during a short burglaries are "just as easy" South Bend police. One such period of time. Someone knew because students do not usually burglary was discovered by Greg exactly when and where to go in." respond to theft by taking addi­Young, who returned to his house Laurino explained that burglars tional precautions such as instal­at 621 Napoleon Blvd. on the night entered the house after kicking in ling more locks. of the USC game to find the $3300 the back door. According to him, Palma cautioned anyone buying stereo system he had purchased the presence of tire-marks int he used stereo equipment to check five days earlier stolen. The stereo backyard and the size of the stolen serial numbers against police equipment had been recently pieces pointed to the work of records. "The big problem," she bought to replace a similar system several burglars with some type of said, "is finding out where all stolen from the same residence in vehicle. "The pieces were big. these stolen goods are going. early September. They were heavy. The operation There must be some kind of market 
Individual pieces taken in the took more than one person · and for them." October 22 burglary of Young's needed a van," Laurino said. Certain evidence and a past residence included a Nakamichi The instance of a student resi­arrest indicate that the burglaries pre-amp tuner and power amp, a dence being burglarized twice is were committed by juveniles, JVC turntable, an RG Dynamic not an isolated one, according to Palma revealed. She described Processor, a pair of Dahlquist Darlene Palma, associate director such methods as kicking in doors as speakers and stands, and a Dahl­of off-campus housing. She cited "juvenile stuff." quist sub-woofer. Among addi­as evidence a student house on She also cited the inability of tional losses sustained by Young Notre Dame Ave. which had been police to match up burglars' finger­and his house-mates were photo hit twice in the month of Septem­prints with those on file at the equipment valued at approximately ber. police department. "The law $1800, several dress suits, an "It's logical that someone prohibits the fingerprinting of overcoat and a parka. watching a house would burglarize juveniles," she said. 

basketball game. 
Sunday November13th • 7:30 pm •N. D. ACC Adults -$1.00 • Students and Children -50~ 
Tickets available at any participating McDonald's®and the ACC Proceeds go to: U.S. Special Olympics & Neighborhood Study Help Program 

Special Pre-game Attraction 
The second annual appearance In Mlchlana of the full cast of McDonaldland Characters, playing the McDonald's All Stars. See the Grlmace~Professor,® Hamburglar:Big Mac·; Capt. Crook~Mayor McCheese®ond Ronald McDonald,~t live and In person. 
Game ticket stubs are redeemable for a free order of Hash Browns during breakfast hours at any participating McDonalds.
-
N\_
IMC§on;®, 

..•.
·',
:~~~.·~··.~--~.··.:..-;.~, ~~ .. 



"If indeed the thefts are being selves m "small-time operations"committed by juveniles, then such as stealing stereos. The where are they unloading the actual market for these goods,goods?" Palma asked. She according to Palma, might consist explained that juveniles do not in the possibility that some stu­
have a peer group to which they dents are buying back "hot" could peddle stolen property. stereos and portable television She also conjectured that profes­sets. sionals would not involvt: them­
_Foreign student enrollment increases 
A total of 313 foreign students engineering, 66 in science, 44 in from 63 countries are enrolled this arts and letters, 34 in business semester at the University of Notre administration and four in Law Dame. This compares with 296 School. Counting undergraduate 
students from 65 nations last year, and post-baccalaureate students, the previous record for number of there are 8S engineering majors, 81 countries represented on the arts and letters, 73 science and 47 campus. in business administration. 
Compiled by Rev. Daniel J. Leading the representation of 
O'Neil, C.S.C., director of the foreign countries are 40 students Office of International Student from India, 35 from Taiwan, 20 Affairs, the list shows a 100 per from Canada, 12 from Panama, 11 cent increase in the number of 
from Mexico and 10 from Peru. freshmen enrolled this year, 26 
There are alos 21 students from the compared to last year's 13. There U.S. Territory of Puerto Rico and are also 29 sophomores, 27 juniors, three from Guam. Also on the 24 seniors and one enrolled in a fifth campus this year are students year program among the 107 representing the international undergraduates at Notre Dame. news centers of Uganda, Rhodesia. The 206 graduate students from South Africa, Saudi Arabia, Egypt foreign countries include 58 in 
and Jordan. 


tilt? ()~§f?f~f?f ()fflt:f?~ Jfcl fl()()f lctf()f(Uilf?e 

phone 233-9466 
BeerS~ 
Pabst case $5.79 
Strohs case $5.79 
Falstaff case-$5.79 
Blatz case $5.79 
Busch quarts/case $5.85 
while they lastf 
Busch 6 pack $1.49 
Koehler 6-pack $1.49 
Notre Dame football and ·basketball schedule mugs available 99' 
We accept Master Charge & Visa 
I:>anunts on Shelf ~! 
1-4 Bottles ---10% off 5-11 Bottles ---15% off I 2-over Bottles ---20% off 


Thursday, November 3, 1977 
the observer 

Brezhnev proposes moratorium on explosions 
MOSCOW [AP] -President Leo-start the gradual reduction of nid I. Brezhnev proposed a halt in existing stockpiles of such atomic nuclear explosions for both military weapons, and move towards their and peaceful putpose yesterday in complete, total destruction." a speech marking the 60th anniver-Brezhnev omitted this point sary of the Bolshevik Revolution. when delivering the speech, and 
The Soviet leader also reported Western observers said later they the 1977 grain harvest was well thought the omission might have below the target fixed by Soviet resulted either from a last-minute planner and even less than U.S. revision or from an inadvertent experts had anticipated. slip-up in reading the text. 
The nuclear proposal marked the In Washington, Secretary of first time the Kremlin had been State Cyrus R. Vance welcomed willing to include peaceful blasts in Brezhnev's proposal for a mor­nuclear test ban talks. atorium on all nuclear explosions, 
The speech text carried by the calling it "a major step toward a offtcial Tass news agency also compehensive test ban agree-included a proposal that "the ment." nuclear cowers could undertake to Vance told a news conference 
For handicapped
Portable voice machine? 
CIDCAGO [AP] -A portable push-button boice machine that "speaks" with a slight Scottich brogue and can form almost any word in the English language will restore "freedom of expression" to people with speech impairments, its developers say. 
The computerized, battery-op­erated Phonic Mirror Handi-Voice was displayed this week at the American Speech and Hearing Association convention. Its manu­facturer, HC Electronics, a division of the American Hospital Supply Co. of Evanston, Ill. said it should be on the market next year and will sell for about $2,000. 
The thin, gray box, which meas­ures about 14 inches high by eight inches wide, is designed for use by deaf-mutes, cancer patients whose vocal chords have been removed, victims of muscle-impairing di­seases, like multiple sclerosis and others incapable of speech. 
Speech pathologist Diane De­Haven demonstrated the box at the convention. She picked it up, pressed a few buttons and a deep easily understood male voice said: "Surprise, I'm using an artificial voice. I am excited." 
DeHaven said yesterday that a 
person can use the device to utter 
electronically pre-programmed 
words and phrases or to construct 
words using phonetic sounds. The 
machine originates the speech it 
produces with a small computer. 
No tapes or other recorded sound is 
used. 
"It hasa prestored basic vocabu­
lary," of 1000 words, "but it has 
the capability for creating other 
words," she said. "It could do 
some swearing, for instance. 
Vocally impaired persons have the 
same frustrations as most of us.'' 
So far the machine is available 
only in a male-sounding model. 
Researcher said they found lower­
frequency artificial voice sounds 
were more easily understood than 
higher ones found in female voices. 
Career Center 
[Continued from paae 4] 
be arranged with counselors for 
individual career planning, which 
usually takes eight sessions to 
complete. The fee is $5 per hour. 
Interest Testing and Evaluation. Vocational interest tests are admin­istered and evaluated by a counselor and usually involves three one-hour sessions for a single cost of $15. This service is offered from 6 to 8 
p.m. Wednesdays by Margaret McCandless. 
Drop-in hours for those who wish to discuss program options will be offered Mondays ana Wednesdays from 9:30 to 11:30 a.m. and Tuesdays and Thursdays from 9 to 11 a. 'll. The Career Center office will be located on the fourth floor at the YWCA, 802 N. Lafayette Blvd. The phone number is 233-9491, ext. 2·.•. 
Established in 1974, the Wo­men's Career Center is a nonprofit organization supported by fees, donations and special grants. Auburn emphasized that no one is 
~r~e~h~7a;;:~fb11~ckp~y:~~~Y·s~~~ ~~~1tea~~~c!~i~~~~~;~ 
There are two varieties of the machine. In one model, sounds are programmed by punching out numbers on a keyboard. The other has a 120-button keyboard with each key marked with a specific sound. 
Kathy Fone, a speech scientist who helped develop the machines, said the first is "for persons, who have high intelligence but little muscle control. The 120-key model is for persons with better control of their fingers but with mental 

The Green Machine is 
• Town &Country Centre McKinley at Hickory Rd. 
Phone 259-3262 
• River Park Liquor 2411 Mishawaka Ave. 
Phone 289-3868 


Stomp on the 
-------·­
yellow Jackets 
Schenl~g's 

qt. $4.99 qt. case ss.ao
Hamms Old Mil Carlings 

qt. case ss.ao 
qt case$5.80 
Light Rum 

1/ss3.99 
Master Charge Bank Americard and Visa accepted 
..:~:.....-.... ·:~..~~ ....... ~·\·:-'-"·~-..JOo/o Discount for N~ .st&ldents. with .ID 
"the proposal he (Brezhnev) made is in the direction of what we have been talking about for several months on the need to include all kinds of nuclear explosions, includ­ing so-called peaceful nuclear ex­plosions in a comprehensive test ban." 
Both the United States and the Soviet Union staged test explosions underground just last week. Western monitors reported the Soviets set off a double explosion in Siberia on Friday and the United States exploded a nuclear device with a 20 kiloton blast last Wednes­day. 
The proposal in the text to reduce stockpiles of nuclear 
impairment. 
A spokesman for the manufac­turer said the company hopes to persuade Blue Cross, Medicare and Medicaid to include the ma­chines among benefits. Production units will be sold only to persons referred by doctors, speech thera­pists or other medical profes­sionals. 
"The machnes will introduce an element of freedom of expression never before enjoyed by the speech-impaired," said Fons. 
weapons matches a goal of U.S. President Carter, who last month told the United Nations General Assembly the United States was "willing now" to reduce its arsenal of nuclear arms if the Soviet would do the same. 
During the one and one half hour address Brezhnev said the Sovet grain harvest this year amounted to a disappointing 194 million tons, the lowest since the 1975 grain disaster. This year's crop was 19 million tons below the target and a sharp drop from the 1976 record crop of 223.8 million tons. The 1975 decade-low grain crop amounted to 140 million tons. 
The Soviet shortfall raised the prospect of increased imports from the United States and higher U.S. grain prices following general market weakness. 
C/LA HAY RIDE 
FRIDAY NOV. 4 ·MEET AT LIBRARYCIRCLEB:OO PM QUESTIONS-CALL KIM 4-5189 
Vodka Gin  qt. sa.99 $3.99qt.  
Vodka Gin  

Imported 
Scotch 
In his speech Brezhnev also warned that Western countries shouldn't count on the China­Soviet split lasting forever. But his renewed criticism of Peking at the same time prompted the Chinese ambassador to stalk out of the Kremlin hall. 
Asserted that the Soviet Union is not seeking to impose on other Communists its ''prescriptions for the socialist transformation of society.'' 
Brezhnev's comments were in apparent response to sharp criticism of the Kremlin by W es­tern European Communists. 
Restated the Soviet Union's in­terest in continuing to develop relations with the United States "ona basis of equality and mutual respect.'' 

volu'hfe<er.,.~~\:'•.''1:.~•. ~-·t~~~~~\·{&~.·~~~WIIiiiliiiiiWIIiililiiiiiiiJiWI.IIIIiill•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 
10 the observer Thursday, November 3, ,9n 
PLACEMENT BUREAU 
Joyce named 'distinguished American :1 


Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C., administratO'f to be so honored in mittee, Joyce has been the-archi­executive vice president of the two years. University President tect of Notre Dame's long rangeUniversity of Notre Dame and Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., financial and facilities planning. chairman of its Faculty Board in was the 1975 awardee. He has also been a frequentControl of Athletics, has been Joyce, who just observed his supporter of college football, and named 1977 recipient of the Nation-25th anniversary as executive vice was instrumental in Notre Dame's al Football Foundation and Hall of president of the University, came returen to postseason bowl compe­Fame's "Distinguished American to Notre Dame from Spartenburg, tition in 1970 after 45 years. Award." N.C., and was graduated in 1937. Joyce is of the new College 
Joyce will receive the award at Two years later, he became a Football Association, a group of the Foundation's 20th annual certified public accountant and in more than SO major football reve­awards dinner Dec. 6 in New York 1945 entered the theological house nue-generating schools formed to City's Waldorf Astoria Hotel. He of studies of the Congreation of promote the interestes of national will be the second Notre Dame Holy Cross in Washington. football powers within the National 
. . ' Joyce was ordained in 1949 and a Collegiat Athletic Association. LeWISIO S reopens year tater became acting vice He has been a trustee of the president for business affairs at National Conference of Christians 
Lewisio's will be open again for Notre Dame. His promotion to and Jews, has served as a member business tomorrow evening in the executive vice president in 1952 of the Board of Visitors for the U.S. basement of Lewis Hall. Lewisio's followed a year of advanced study Naval Academy, and holds hono­features all the spaghetti, salad at Oxford University in England. rary doctorates from the College of and desert you can eat for $2. As treasurer of the University St. Thomas and Belmont Abbey 
Call 3735 for reservations. and chairman of its building com-College. 
DON'T MISS THE 
The Religion & Academic Commissions of Howard Hall 
BOB HOPE 
present a one hour film on 
Joey Heatherton
William Blake 
SHOW
poet, painter, religious thinker 
with a 25 full pc orchestra
Today Nov.3 
NOV. 4th 8:30 Notre Dame
Howard Hall 
A.C.C. 
RESERVED SEATS­
6:30pm free 

$6, $8, $10, $12 A CEDR PRODUCTION 
GRAND REOPENING 
Stuff's last opening was so hot we invited the Are Department. 
731 Lincolnway West 
288-3559 

Due to fire ALL MERCHANDISE AT DISCOUNT PRICES 
COME TO BONG SHOW THURSDAY, 7-9 PM 
2 D.J.'s broadcasting live from W RBR 
Complete line o.f Paraphernalia to serve your needs 
Stuff t-shirtsl $3 e.ch 
10% Discount on Team T -Shirts 

No Matter How Ugly You Are, 
Come in and get your portrait painted 
Thursday, Friday and Saturday 
INTERVIEWS SCHEDULED FOR WEEK OF NOVEMBER 14 
Interviews are for seniors and graduate students. Sign-up schedules are in Room 213, Main Building. Interview times must be signed for in person. The sign-up period at the Placement Bureau will be from 8:00a.m. to 5:00p.m., Monday through Friday. 
Nov. 14 Detroit Bank &Trust Co. 
Mon. B in Acct and Fin. 
Factory Mutual Engineering Association 
B in ME and AE. 

Nov. 14/15 Mon/Tues 
Nov. 15 
Tues. 
Nov. 16 
~ 
Nov. 16/17 Wed/Thurs 
Nov. 17 
Thurs. 
Nov. 17/18 Thurs/Fri 
Nov. 18 
~ 
Schneider Transport B in Mgt or Mkt. MBA with Mgt or Mkt bkgrd or conctrn. Texas Gas Transmission Corp B in Acct. 
Bethlehem Steel Corp Cancelled. 
Aluminum Company of America B in Mkt. MBA with Mkt bkgrd or conctrn. BM in ChE, Met, EE, ME. Duke University, Grad School of Business Admin. B in all disciplines. IBM Corporation BM in all disciplines. Southern Methodist University. Grad. School of Bus. B in all disciplines. Ralston Purina Company BMD in ME and ChE. 
Amsted Industries, Inc. B in Acct. B in ME and Met. Burroughs Corporation B in Econ, Mkt, Mgt, Fin. Cornell University. Grad. School of Businees and Public Administration. B in all disciplines. Dana Corporation, Spicer Axle Division B in Acct. B in ME, MEIO, EE. Axles and Automotive Products. For: Accounting and Management Trainee, Mechanical and Electrical Engineer. Location· Fort Wayne, IN. Perm. Res. Visa required. 
Nalco Chemical Company B in ChE, ME, CE, EE, Met, Chern. 
Union Carbide Corporation Ph.D. & P.Ph.D. in Met. 
ACTION/Peace Corps/VISTA BM in all disciplines. Celanese Corporation BM in ChE, ME and Chern. 
Hallmark Cards, Ine. BM in Econ, Business, ME. BMD in Hath, MEIO. ITT Telecommunications B in EE and Comp Sci. Sealed Power Corporation B in ME and Met. 
Union Carbide Corporation BM in ChE and ME. Arthur Young & Company B in Acct. MBA and JD with Acct undergraduate degree. 
Air Products and Chemicals, Inc. B in ChE and ME. MBA with BS in ChE or ME. City of Chicago. Dept. of Public Works BM in CE, ME and EE. 
Gould Inc. B in Physics, Chern, ChE. 
Law Schools: Thomas M. Cooley Law School Nov. 14 San Fernando Valley College of Law Nov. 15 Boston University Law School Nov. 16 Duke University Law School Nov. 17 Univ. of Akron Law School Nov. 18 
with Special Guest Star ERIC CARMEN 
also appearing 

NETWOR.K SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 19, 8:00P.M. NOTRE DAME A.C.C. 
All Seats Reserved: $7.00 and $6.00 Tickets an sale at: 
• Notre Dome A.C.C. Box Office • St. Joseph Bonk & Branches • frrst Bonk-Main offico only Sot. 9 to I • Rrver City Records. 
: ~t'~:~dfrtt~ord in Elkhart

• 
Student Unron Ticket Office • Boogie Records 

• 
Robortson's·S.B. & Concord Moll • Just for the Record • Record Joint -Niles 


New Orleans enforces law J'~~~;~:~~;~~,::,~,,;:!;::::;:u!l 


NEW ORLEANS [AP] -Even its The ordinance, aimed at cleaning , sidewalks was extended Tuesday :;:; ~::: supporters are worried about a new up the notoriously dirty streets in throughout the city, which has a :;:; by Caroline Moore assistance. ;:;: ordinance that makes it illegal to the nation's 20th largest city, population of 580,000. :;:; In ·other business, Rukavina;:;: drink liquor, beer, soft drinks or presents severe enforcement prob-So far, no one has been arrested :;:; Cicely Tyson, actress of Sounder, announced that there is now a::;: anything else from glass or metal lems, a sponsor of the measure said . outside the French Quarter for :;:;Miss Jane Pitman and Roots fame, newspaper box outside of thJ;:;: containers in public in New or­yesterday. violating the ordinance. But police :;:; will present two hours of dramatic LeMans side of the dining hall that;:;: leans. Paper cups are permissible. "We are wrestling with exactly say they will enforce it. f readings and a question and sells the Chicago Tribune.. Other::;~ The peanlty is a $100 fine or 90 how to define it," said City "It's been a marvelous success;:;: answer period in St. Mary's cities' newspapers may also ~:; days in jail or both. Councilman Frank Friedler, a co-in the Quarter, but we didn't:;:;: O'Laughlin Auditorium Tuesday at available later on. Furnishing a:;:; sponsor of the ordinance. "It is anticipate these enforcement prob-:;:;: 7:30 p.m., Mary Rukavina, St. newspaper ·stand with various:;:;VIDA volunteers aimed at the guy who leaves his lems elsewhere," said Friedler. :;:;:Mary's SBP, announced at the· citie's newspapers on sale was part:;:; neighborhood tavern at midnight Spokesmen for major soft drink:;:; Board of Governance meeting the of Rukavina's campaign platf~rm:;:;
sought 
with a can or glass and throws it on companies had no comment yes-:;:;: Thursday evening before break. _I!J:~!.~P.rtl)g,_ ........·.··················· ............:;:;
Rev. Ervin Schmitt will be on th the ground. terday on the new city ordinance. :t .The Tyson appearance had pre{~~:~:~:,:~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~:·:·:·:~~:~:~:~:~:~.~-~-~-:-:-:-:-:-~-:-:-;-;-:-:-:-:-::::·:·:·:·:;.;. library concourse all day Friday to "But what about the fellow who Many city bar owners and mana-:;:;: vtously been cancelled~t was;:;. interest students in his group, walks out to the front of his house gers said they like the ordinance. :;:;: suddenly rescheduled. Admission;:;: Volunteers in Diocesan Action with a beer can to say goodnight to "I'm for it and the customers are :;:;:to the presentation, sponsored by~::. (VIDA). The group works in his guests? Or people picnicking in for it," said Joe Peak, manager of:~~~: St. Mary's Student Government, is:~~~: parishes and secular institutioons the park with three beer cans? Jace Dampsey's Uptown Down-:;:;: $1. . ;:;:. in the Diocese of Pueblo, which • 'That is obviously not what we town Lounge, a neighborhood bar :;:;: An Tostal plans we.re also dts-;;;:: 
takes in half the state of Colorada. are trying to prevent." in the city's 9th Ward. "It's better ;:;:;cussed at the meetmg. John;:;. Volunteers work with people in A similar ordinance has been in for the city, better for the kids. ;~~:Rooney, An. Tostal chair~an, gavet: 
helping organize intellectual, spiri-effect for five years in the French Most people are surprised it didn't :;:;: a presentatio~ and ~uthned p_lans;;;. tual, recreationa, and social pro-Quarter, a square mile section of go citywide to begin with." ·::;:for the upcommg festival of spnng. :;:: grams and activities. They help the city which is popular with . . ::::Rooney expressed the hope tha,t St.::: 
peop e d t d tvmg · 't In an effort to cut down on 1 rti' . t IS·:··
I m. ay-o-ay 1. st ua-tourists and for more than a year in h b d th ttter,al :·:··:·: Mary,s acti've y pa ctpa e th' :-: 
. . th h A d' . severa1states ave anne e s e .;.: b "th1 . t 1:-: 
~ons m . e o~e. ny one the central busines~ tstrict. of throw-away cans and bottles. :;:; year ecause ey ar~ an,m egra ;:;.
mterested m learmng more about The ban on carrymg open bottles s:: part of the commumty. . The:;:. VIDA should see Schmitt. or cans on public streets and :;;~Board pledged its cooperation an<J::;;_:.IMIVVO.MIV.,...MIVVO.M'N..,.~ 
Please, help! Need 3 GA or student Accomplished, enthusiastic, personable ATTENTION JUNIORS: Dec. 3 is a date •
1---------~------------------------------------for Call persons of high integrity to be nominated to remember. 1
tickets Georgia Tech. Rosie ND & SMC's Christmas
1 ClaSSified AdS ~~een12&~~------~sen~c1assFeii~~~TTODAYII ~~~at~'~~~~~o~~~~Y~~r~~~t~~ca~;hn~~~; I 
I Your parents cannot make it to the Need 4 GA Georgia Tech tix. Call Jim date. Don't hesitate, there's no need to Georgia Tech game? How about selling 3130. we::~! Any questions or volunteers to help I me their tickets. Call Geoff at 1083 ----------------ca11 .LyMe 4-4476, Kathy 4-5111 orI anytl·~. P... and keep on tryt·ng. Need GA Geo. Tech., Air Force tickets. Marnie 2-6978. 1
Lost: Student football ticket, Section 29, ... Call Claire 289-6533. ---·-----------­
1
I NOTICES Row 35, Seat 11. Athletic Department has -----'-------··--:-,,,___ ----------------Happy s':,1hday Mike!!! I been nltlfled. Please return. Call Maur-Desperately need 2 Geo. Tech. GA tix. 2 good tix for Crosby, Stills, Nash. Call ------------------­I Accurate, fast .typing. Mrs. Donoho. aen 6856. Call 288-8235. Mark at 2140. Will pay good money. Kliglib, Alcatrax is up for grabs-wanna 1 232-0746. Hours. 8a.m. to 6 p.m. -----------------------------------------------buy it fer our own? Wish you'd been 
--------------WANTED Wanted: 2 or 4 GA Georgia Tech tix. 't 
I 
"We're OK . You're OK". Gay Com-Please! Call Ann 6859. there! I left my he<.1 o.1 the oppost e 1 munity at N D gujide to ND-SB. $1.00 coast. Love, Klig I 
Pandora's Books or Box 206, ND All these ads, how irri~ting. -------------­
------------~ ·-----TYPIST WANTED: Full time, to typeset To enter the Junt'or Class T sh'trt Design
---------------display advertising, Monday and Wed-•
1Over 65 or Handicapped? We need to Need extra money? ~ell .,_,;:~ Worlde nesday thru Saturday afternoons and-or Contest contact Sally Platt (1296) or I 
Industrial ·or ·'-lamP. Cleaning.-Supplies FOR SALE Bruce McCaffery (3321) $20 prt·ze for thE<
hear from you! Call 234-8190 to complete i1 ,. event'ngs. Hou·rly pay. Experience helpful ·I a short, confidential survey on transpor-and Persona' . arehroliti~:i! ;:,011P. OW but not necessary. Apply In person at: p1 Recet'ver Model SX-737. Great best dest'gn · Contest ends November 4th· I
·oneer

· s J c (Th people earning over $1000 weeklv'!.AII _____________
I 
tation needs m t. oseph ounty. e depends on your ability and time. Bra~· i?r The Penny S~IBr. 2102 S. Michigan St., condition. Call 8320. Supporting, task force on specialized transportation) P.O. Box 2023, Elkhart, IN. 46515 or cau South Bend, 2118-1411. ----------------have a good birthday! I 
I s;;;;;;;;self-suffi~;;;;d'l;arnin9.A ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-~~~0'~~~~~~~~~~~~~-Herb [XX] I 
I smail two week live-in course, covering Addressers wanted immediately! work at ------------------USC-UCLA sportswear for sale. Come o;;;;:t;;ci;J;"T;;;;;;!N;;ct""T;;;;d~ the basic arts and crafts of your an-home--no experience necessary--excel-2 female students to sublet campus view and browsP.. 326 Morr. Ask for Kevin only $1.00 I cestors combined with modern techno-lent pay. Write American Service, 8350 apt. Call kathy 6781. 3587.
l 
logy relative to food, shelter and energy. Park Lane, Suite 269, Dallas, TX 75231. ------------------------------------------------I Setting is on a tranquil Missouri farm. ----------------Need ND-St. Mary's students nite work. Name brand stereo & television at prices
• 
Taught by a leading survival and self-Needed: 2 GA tickets Georgia Tech. Call Nicola's Rest. 809 N. Michigan Street. you can afford. Manufacturer's warranty. Bruces of NO unite Saturday, Nov. 5. For I sufficiency expert with 35 years exper-Betsy 4.4184. Part-time or full-time. Hourly pay. Wait-Call 291-5843 &venings. more information call Bruce and find out
• 
ience throughout the world. Write Self-__________________ resses, busboys, pizza-maker, dishwash-----------------how you can be a Bruce 11. I sufficiency, Rt. 6, Box 85, Festus, MO. Need four Georgia Tech tickets. Joan er. Apply in person. Nicola's Restau-1974 Fiat Spider. Converted, 26000 miles, -----------------­
• 
63028. 288-2969. "rant. mint condition. $2850. JJ Norkus and Bob Kruse: 
I 

1 Ty-pi;;-g~R;;;;i;~t;'s~Cailso51~-------------------------------------------------------·For the abuse I have taken m regards to I Need 2 GA tix for Georgia Tech. Call Need 5 GA tix for Ga. Tech. Call Jim Da, :d. you really ought to include a my name, 1 demand acquisition of a 
lseni;s-:-s;r-;-;;;~ight i;;;!! Brian 1428. ~~:._______________ ~~~~~~~~~~~~_:______ certain street sign. Make it quick or I 
I 
who Wl.ll be our Senior Glass Fellow? -----------------suffer the Personals.
Need 2 CSN tickets. Call Kevin 288-3056. I need one student ticket to Georgia Tech. Pandora's Books is having a bog, store-E Nominate your choice today! ----------------Money is 110 object. Call Russ at 8772. wide sale. '11.11 used books are 50 percent ------------------·-1------------------M t have 1or·2 GA tt'x for Georgt'a Tech -----------------off and selected new books (including The SENIORS RESUME PROBLEMS We'll
1Notice to all Off Campus Seniors: Please Ca~f John at 1941. · Babysitter for 3 year old boy. Tuesday Slmarrillon) are 25 percent off. It's time do It all f~r yim. Call Margie or Marg~ 1 pick up important Senior class Fellow ----------------and Thursday from 12:45 p.m. till 4:15 for early Christmas shopping or books for 272-5217. 
I
• Letters in Student Activities Office -Needed: GA tickets to remaining home p.m. (if possible 9:30 a.m. till 5 p.m.) classes. We have many, many ND books. ------------------J l ~~~~e Studen~.:_n~~-----g_a_me_._ca_ll_1996 ask_forM_a_rk_or_M_a_rty_. Near campus. 232-9541. Phone 233-2342, 937 south Bend Ave. Jerry, MP is cute!! This weekend my I ----------------------~----------sister is coming, so prepare yourself!! Need one Georgia Tech ticket. Call Jim Need 1, only 1 GA ticket for Georgia Gibson L6-S, 2 .super humb. perfect Me II 3494. Tech. Help me keep a friend. Call Steve cond., make offm. Also Ensenada acous-----------------­FOR RENT ---------------8998. tic guitar, $40, Gibson GSS100 amp. 100 Bag No. 2:1 2 GA Georgia Tech ticket. Will pay good w. $100, Ampeg· 2-15" bottom, $100. Only 21 years to get that U"' 1 , .a~py 1 Apartm&nt for rent. Fabulous one of a price. Call Tom 289-9351. Armstrong flute, $40. All in good cond. birthdav anyhow! Hugs an ,sses, Bag 
kind townhouse on river in Elkhart. --------------GA'sandstudentticketstoGeoryiaTech. Call Mike289-6468. No.1:. the ooft,.. ~ar. 1 Sunken living room, fireplace, swimming Need 2 GA Georgia Tech tix. Call Ray Mick 2743 or Ern 1750. HELP!!. ---·-----------­
• pool, sunken red Japanese soaking tub, 1466. ------------Pioneer 300 receiver cheap. Call 8636 Earth to Dee.,:es!! ;!ing Deebles!! 1 dishwasher, laundry equipment in each _____ -----2 GA tickets for Georgia Tech. Call Tom after 7. Where are ya, kld??'
1

• unit, winding staircase, some with sky-Need $$$? Sell me 5 M1l Air Force Ga at 3693. --------------------------------I 
I 
light. Leases conform to school year. tickets. Caii'Jim 3559. ----------------Flanner Records album specials week of Holly Ann, Nothing like it anywhere! 294-2151. ---'--------~ Need 2 to 4 GA and 1 student ticket for October 31. These $7.98 list LP's only Thanks for the southern hospitality -1------1 GA or sfudent tix. Georgia Tech. Big Georgia Tech. Call 288-()()88. $4.99 (plus tax): CSN-Crosby. Stills & Atlanta style. I'll pay you back in May.1Attic room for rent. $10 weekly. 310 W. bucks. Mrr~'8514. Nash, Bool: oftlrcams-SteveM. ·r Band, Until then, 1hope you get your "kicks." 1 l ~~rre ~~287-~--------------------Need 3 student or Ga tickets.$$$. Call Rumouts':.~ieetwood Mac, The Grand SLN I 3G-24-36 sell me your Air Force tix. 1 1618. Illusion-Styx, Point of Know Return stud~nt. 2 ~A. Sue 4798. --------------(New!)-Kansas, Foreigner-Foreigner,
I ______________ NEEDED: Two GA Georgia Tech. tickets. Chicago Xi-Chicago, Going for the One-1 Need'one Georgia Tech ticket. Call Bill Call Dawn 7892. Yes, JT-James Taylor, Little Queen---------------­I 8792. ,. HJeart, Flanner Records 322 Flanner H, I 
LOST &FOUND ____....:._.....;..,..._________ Need GA Tech GA's. Please call Helen, Phone2741. Hours4-5, 6:30-8 M-F. Sales And you thought my ads were badGi·dSSI Help! Need 3 GA tlx for Georgia Tech! 7260. ends Friday. 1 Call Rocco 1386. · . · ----------­
I Lost: Wire rim glasses. if found call 8636 --------------Need ride to and from PITTSBURGH at WHY PAY MORE? FLANNER Sam, I after 7· Dick the Bruiser is coming Saturday, and THANKSGIVING. Call 1581. RECORDS has all $6.98 list LP's only Just think of all the nasty things 1haven'tI Lost: Silver polarized sunglasses in mens If I don't get two Gtickets for the Georgia $4.50. All $7.98 list LP's only $5.29. Over put in. Love, Me I locker room at the Rockne Memorial on Tech game he's going to attach my face to Need GA tickets for Georgia Tech. Call 400 albums In stock. Phone orders Seniors: You're not too late, you're not • Thursday Oct. 13th. If found, please call the Dome. Call 1244. Chris 8336. accepted. Flanner Records 322 Flanner too late, but hurry, hurry, no time to wait. I 1
3_71_6_or_return them to 902 Fl_anner.__ ------------------Phone 2741· Hours M-Th. 4'5• 6:30-8:00 Pick that Fellow and don't delay. Nomi-. Need 2 Air Forceii-tickets. Please call ---------------Sun 2-3:30. nations close on this Friday.
1

I 
Found near" Grotto: One combination 4-5181. • Need Georgia Tech tix. Call Sam at 1772. -------------------­· · ~ L -----------------Tickets for CSN concert. ffa'' John at I 
I 
lock, manufactured by Presto, Inc. If -----------------N · Hank & Duffy, yours_ca_ll 1772. ----------1 season basketball ticket. Will pay $. eed 4 GA tickets to Georgia Tech, Air 272-5564. p is coming this weekend. Prepare Please call 4-5181. Force games. Will pay top$. Call Pat or -----------------y_ou_rs_el_ve_sf_or_th_e_l_nv_a_sio_n._____ • I 
I 
Ken, what were you doing at the Grotto? -----------------Ed at 8377 or 8378. One student Georgia Tech ticket. Guy: ---------------Bridget & Chris, 1 Lost: Digital watch at Stepan Center 289-9351. Need urgently 7 GA tickets to Georgia PERSONALS Thanks for the beer, Maggie' May, & durir,g usc Pep Rally. Call Ed 1771. ----------------Tech game. Phone Chris 1158. c_h_an_ge_s!_N_ot_ha_nk_s_for_th_e_sh_ow_er_!_Pid_a I 
Yes, I still need at l?ast 4 Georgia Tech Happy Hour at Pir,.r,;hic' Pizza ParlorI L;;;t"G;Jct;'arm t;;,letat USC gam; Ga tickets. Call Geoff at 1083 anytime! Need two GA Georgia Tech tickets. Call 4-7 p.m. Mon-Thurs. 2 pitchers for price Correction_ the elusive Paddlefish ARE I Re_wa_r.d._. Call co_llect 31_2-6_79-4__553_.___ -------------Kevin 8713· of one! Georgetown Plaza, Emmons Rd. coming!! watch for us at the Tech. game. 
I 
1-Need 6GA tickets to Georr!a Tech game. ------------(4 mins from Juniper Circle) P.S. It was Brian's fault. 1 Lost during break -manila folder with Pay good $$$. Call Dennis-2120. Interview material in it. Call Pat 234-1774 ---------EXTRA MONEYII TG!'Ti and Ed's stereo equipment, i~clud-· Need 2 GA Georgia Tech :ici.ets. Call If you've ever sold anything before, call Moe Reynolds, I feel like I spend all my lng Pioneer and Kenwood recetvers,I Found usc night: Small coverless Mary 4786. now! We need qualified people to sell time redeeming mys:!lf (or yourself) in Pioneer turntable, EPI speakers (two I address book at ND and Angela Blvd. ----------------advertising in our offices year round. the Personals. You never give me good sets), Panasonic tape-player and more. • Call Pat 234-1774. One Georgia Tech GA ticket. Call Paul Good voice & diction required, top material to work with, so you have to take Cheap. Call Froggie. I I 
1537 11:45-12 midnight. commissions, relaxed atmosphere, 6 what you get.I Lost: An ND monogram jacket in North . ----. hours per day. Call Mr. Allis, 683-2403. ------------1want everyone to notice that I refrained 1 Dining Hall. 1 really need it now that Help-I need 2 GA ttckets for Georgta --------.-------TO MY SAN FRANCISCO ADMIERE: from using "that" Initial today.... l can't t:
winter Is here. There IS a reward for it's Tech. Call Jeff 1715 or 8661 between Help! I need 2 CSN ttckets. Call Bob ~ THANK YOU! THEY'RE BEAUTIFUL! stand it. I turn. Dave 2216. 1D-12 a~ ____ 1421. KAREN GGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGG 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii~M..~iiiiijiijjj..iiiiiiiilii-......~~~~~IHII~.UIIUI~II'I 
---------------------------------__ _,________ -'ll .•.•-.-...... 
._,,. -~~~:<!:.

----------------~--·-&~----~"-­
12 the observer Thursday, November 3, 1977 
North Quad dominates South, 23-14 
by Bill CaldweU score of 17-6. 

Sport. Writer The South Quad received the ball 
to open the 3rd quarter of play and 
Last night in the men's interhall scored a touchdown in an impress­all-star game the North Quad rolled ing manner by taking the ball in for over the South Quad by a score of paydirt in three plays. The score _ 
23-14. The South Quad was came on another brilliant run by 
stunned on the first play when Dom Griffin, this time from 23 yards out. 
Garda (Stanford) lofted a picture The two point conversion was 
perfect to Marty Dytrych (Flanner) good on a run by Griffo, and that 
for a 65 yard score. The extra point made the score 17-14. 

attempt by Ed Dainko (Keenan) After the ball exchanged hands 
was good and that made the score several times the North Quad once 
7-0. again got on the board. The score 
After several series of exchanged came on a nifty 40 yard run by the 
punts the North Quad once again tailback Fassler. The extra point 
got on the board. This time it was attempt failed and that left the 
the South Quad which gave them score at 23-14. The quarter ended 
the points. On fourth down the with this score. 

South Quad attempted a punt but Although the game saw no more 
the snap from center sailed over scores there were several exciting 
the punter's head and out of the plays left in the game. The first 
end zone for a safety. That made was an interception of a South 
the score9-0 in the North Quad's Quad aerial by Frank Hopke 
favor. That play ended the quarter. (Keenan) that thwarted a South 
At the beginning of the second Quad opportunity. The second big quarter the North Quad recceived play was an interception by Jim the ball due to the safety and Zidar (Grace) of the North All-Stars promptly marches 56 yards for the at the SO yard line. The game score. The touchdown came from ended on a nine yard loss by South one yard out by Ray Oliu (Stan-Quad QB Matt Ratterman on an ford). The two point conversion expletive deleted play, which was good on a run by Mike Fassler was called by Ratterman. (Keenan). The big play in the Defensively the North Quad drive was a 25 yard pass from played a great game, controlling Garda to Dytrych to the one. The the line of scrimmage. The score was now read 17-0 in favor standout was linebacker John Jan­the the North Quad. nazo (Stanford) with 6 tackles and 
The South Quad's one man two unassisted tackles for 26,yards offensiveshowwent into action late in losses. The rest of the tackles in the second quarter. The South were evenly distributed throughout QB, Bill Griffin (Dillon), made a the rest of the line. The South Quad brilliant 46 yard run, breaking defense was also tough, but they several tackles along the way to were unable to stop the big plays. give the South Quad it's first TD. The North Quad offense did a The pass for the two point conver-great job of controlling the line of sion fell incomplete so the score scrimmage as the backs consis­stood 17-6. tently racked up three or four yards 
The North Quad mounted a a play. The offensive line play was threat with under 2:00 minutes to spearheaded by center Brian Mul­go but were unable to get in for the lins (Keenan). The South Quad's score as time ran out in the half offensive line also was impressive with the North Quad leading by a _in the way they opened holes for 

by Gregory Solman dolefully referring were the Indiana Sports Writer State Championships (where the Irish poled second but were expec-Coach Joe Piane, reflecting on ted to win) and the Central Colic-the Irish harriers' last two inauspi-giate Championships, where the cious outings, might well have said Irish sunk to seventh place among the only positive thing possible, a but twelve teams, hardly good phrase saved for such occasions. tuneups for the NCAA qualifiers 
"If we're going to have bad approaching November 12 at Ann races," he mourned, "I guess Arbor. those races were the best times to In the Indiana State Champion-have them." ships held Friday, October 21, 
The races to which Piane was Dave Kelley of Ball State (23:51), 
Tom Desmond::::::::::::::::::::::::::;.;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:::::::::::::::;.;:;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::'::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=:=:::::=:=:=:=:=::::::::::::'=:=:=::::::::::':'::::=:=:=:=:=::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=:=:=:=:=======:=:=:====== 
Strategy 
·:::::::::::::::::~:::::::::::::::~:~:~:~:~:::::::::::~=~=~=~=~:::::::~:::~:~:~:~:::~:~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:::::::::::::=:~:~:::::::::: 
Six-Pointers 
Revenge is sweet and the Irish have the opportunity to taste the sweetness of vengeance this weekend as the Ramblin' Wreck of Georgia Tech comes to town. 
Last fall in Atlanta it was Pepper Rodgers' squad, with a 23-14 upset victory over the Irish, that kept Dan Devine and his squad from the promised land of. the major bowls. Instead of earning the big bucks needed for an expanding athletic program and playing in a prestige encounter, the Fighting Irish had to settle for a break-even proposition against a lower-ranked Penn State squad. 
This season, however, the Irish appear to be rambling in an unstoppable manner to a showdown with a higher-rated ballclub. Speculators are ordering plane tickets to Dallas in anticipation of a National Championship shoot-out with Texas. Or, perhaps against once-beaten Oklahoma in the Orange Bowl with the national title to the winner. 
But, those games will be held eight weeks from now. In two days a S-3 Georgia Tech squad will be looking for the upset that will make some bowl scouts look their way. Georgia Tech has a talented squad and this is how the grudge match very well may shape up before a capacity crowd in Notre Dame Stadium on Saturday. 
When Tech has the ball: Last year, the Yellow Jackets didn't throw the ball once against the Irish. Two years ago they passed but four times and didn't complete a single one. It will be more of the same for the Yellow Jackets on Saturday as they are averaging 314 yards per game on the gro~d with their wishbone attack. 
1-(alfback Eddie Lee Ivery leads the offensive thrust as the junior has gained 740 yards on 112 carries--a 6.6 yard average. Ivery is a '>peed-merchant who has big gain capability if he gets open field on the pitch from the triple-option. 
The dive man who gets the tough yardage inside is Rodney Lee, a '>Ophomore who displaced Adrian Rucker, last year's starting fullback. lee; whose carries for the most part are dives off the belly-series, has racked up 657 yards on 105 carries for a 6.3 yard average. Gary Lanier runs the offense at the quarterback slot and is a master of the option. Bucky Shamburger is the other halfback and although he has half the carries of his backfield mates, he boasts a 5.3 yard average. 
Up front, Drew Hill is one wide receiver, but he has caught only four passes thus far for 63 yards. Tech has passed the ball but 46 times all year. 
In the interior of the line, the Wreck has size to open the holes for the backs. Mike Taylor, the left tackle, is indicative of the beef up front as he stands 6-7 and tips the scales at 257. 
Defensively this game will present one big switch for the Irish. Tech doesn't have a Mark Herrmann or Leamon Hall taking the snaps and the defense certainly won't see anything close to the 31 passes per game they've seen this fall. 
The wishbone is the purest of the option offenses. Defensively, the front seven for the Irish will have to contain the dive play as well as string out the pitch. The key to stopping Tech will fall heavily on the play of tackles Mike Calhoun, Ken Dike, Jeff Weston and Jay Case as they will have to stop the inside efforts to release the linebackers to the outside. 
The defensive backfield will find itself making more tackles thari normal but Luther Bradley, Ted Burgmeier and company must avoid being caught\ 
leaning toward the run as Drew Hill is a fleet-footed, though 
under-utilized receiver. 
When the Irish are on offense: In their last two outings the revamped Irish offensive attack has posted 92 points on the board. Truly a multiple-offense, the Irish attack has developed around the running of Jerome Heavens and the passing combination of Joe Montana to Ken MacAfee. Heavens is on his way to a 1,000-yard season and MacAfee may just be causing a stir in the Reisman balloting with his blocking and receiving abilities. 
Since going to the power-I, the Irish offensive line seems more together and more effective with the versatile set behind it. Tackles Steve 'McDaniels and Tim Foley have especially been effective paving the way for Heavens as was in evidence on his 49-yard jaunt against Navy. 
Georgia Tech will be in the familiar 5-2 alignment that features a pair of stellar linebackers. Lucius Sanford is one of these stars who will surely make All-America teams at season's end. Quick, agile and big at 6-3, 220, Sanford is the Tech defensive leader captain and spearheads their defensive effort. At the other linebacker spot, called the "quick" linebacker, is Mackel Harris who aids Sanford in patrolling the area behind the big men up front. 
Specialists: Dave Reeve proved that he's human when he missed a chipshot at the start of the game Saturday, but his three second-quarter field goals tied the Irish single-game mark. Reeve holds or shares every field goal record and is on the verge of capturing the extra point marks provided the offense gives him ample opportunities in the weeks ahead. Joe Restic needs four punts to set the all-time career punts mark. Restic has booted the ball 131 times in his two and a half years for a 41.2 yard average--two yards better than Brian Doherty's standard-setting career average. 
For Tech, Ted Peeples has been averaging 42 yards per punt while Johnny Smith handles the placekicking and his field goal percentage does not match Reeve's. One added specialist the Irish must be wary of, however, is Drew Hill who ranked second in the nation in kickoff returns last fall. This year, the S-9, 165 pound senior is averaging better than 24 yards per return and poses a threat whenever he handles the ball. 
Intangibles: The biggest intangible has to be the memory of last year's 23-14 win by Tech at Atlanta. After the game some of the Yellow Jackets were quoted as saying that the Irish line was out of shape. The offensive line has been jelling of late and a little added incentive produced by those remarks should lead tht:m to produce their finest effort of the season. 
Two years ago, Pepper Rodgers and his wishbone brought the number-one rushing team in the country into South Bend averaging 376 yards per game. When it was all over, Jerome Heavens' 148 yards was five more than the whole Tech team. This year the Irish defense has yielded but one rushing touchdown and grudgingly allows only 95 yards per game on the ground. Add to that the fact that Tech hasn't completed a pass on Notre Dame since 1974 and the defense has incentive to put on one great show. 
Georgia Tech will be tough. If they can win their remaining three games they will be bowl material at 8-3. Their players and coaches know what a win on Notre Dame's home field is worth. 
Their path is impeded, however, by all the incentives that the Irish have to put in their finest performance to date. 
John Gustafson (24:04), Dan 
Visscher (24:21) and Randy Stone­
man, all of Indiana University, 
finished before a blue and gold 
thinclad made its appearance 
beyond the finish line. 
Only then did Dennis Vander­
Kraats, Charlie Fox and Chuck 
Aragon score for the Irish, Fox's 
appearance coming after sixth 
place finisher Ron Cracker. 
It all spelled defeat for the Irish 
in the State Championship they had 
hoped to bring to Notre Dame. 
"The meet really didn't reflect 
our strenght,'' Joe Piane commen­
ted after the contest. "We ran 
mediocre. If we had run to our 
potential, we would have beaten. 
Indiana. We ran fair, but not 
great." 
Notre Dame scored a fair 54 
points, good enough for second. 
Indiana scored a great 25, and 
won the State Championship. 
Against twelve formidable foes in the Central Collegiate Cham­pionship held at Bowling Green University October 29, the story was much the same. 
Bill Donakowski rolled up a 24:07 time for the five mile course for , Michigan. Melvin Boyd from Pitt, followed. Tom Duits anchored third place for Western Michigan. Panther Dave McDonald was fourth, John Ziegler ·from Penn State was fifth and Bob Lunn from Bowling Green ranked sixth. Dennis VanderKraats of the Irish placed sevent, and wasn't to be followed by a teammate for twenty seven places. Rounding out the top ten were John Schulze and Roger Jones of Eastern Michigan, and Bob Snyder of Penn State. 
In team scoring, the result was far from encouraging for the Irish harriers. Notre Dame rolled up a dismal 188 points and fell far behind the winning Michigan team that scored only 55. It was another poor showing for the Irish harriers, running the meet without the talents of Steve Welch (knee pro­blems) , Dan Horgan (stomach problems) and Chuck Aragon (severe cold). 
"We ran a very down race," Piane espoused. "We didn't run agressively. I think due to the injuries, the boys ran a little apprehensively." 
However, the Irish, as of now, have a full and healthy squad ready to tackle the NCAA qualifers in Ann Arbor, a race that could make them forget about the last two. 
"We have a really good chance of qualifying," Piane concluded. "We have the potential to do it on any particualar day." 

\ 




