-----~-----------------..-------------.---~----------------~ 
See Notre Dame 
Not only university to restrict lofts, paneling -­
BWOMINGTON* Ind. [AP] -wasted their time. paneling, the room violates Indi-fumes. wood ·in his room See the dorm room. See its fan~y Their newly re~~bished room ana's u~iform building code: "A room fire can reach 2,000 Packard said h~ doesn't believe loft. See the fire marshal. He ts has a color televtston, a stereo Marvm E. Lockhart, IU dtrector degrees in 20 minutes and the their room is any more hazardous frowning. See the loft get ripped system, a dimmer switch for the of fire and safety, said the code residents would never be able to than other dorm rooms and said out. Too bad, guys, it's a fire lights, a mirrored bar and a states that all interior surfaces escape," he said. "If everybody they would not change it until they hazard. sleeping loft. The two spent the must have non-combustible fini-did this, built a loft and we had a absolutely must. 
!?on~y ~m the room because shes. . The panels and support fire, we would have a disaster." Nothing has been done about the 
After spending five weeks and ~e ve hved ~ere for thre~ years be~ms m the room have no such Pumel said he knew about uni-code violation yet, but Foster Quad $800 to turn their Indiana Univer­wtt~out pledgmg a fratermty and fimsh. . versity regulations against putting housing manager Sandra Vernon sity dormitory room in Foster Quad we J~st ~anted the room to be more Loc_khart al.so warned that tf a nails or fasteners of any kind in the said, ''I am going to speak to the 
into a luxurious cedar paneled 
spectal.. . . . fire d_td st~rt tn the room, persons walls. But he said no one students, Pumel and Packard, and lounge, juniors Mark Pumel and But wtt~ tts.thtck shag carpeting, sleepmg m the loft would _be mentioned anything about fire if necessary ask Mr. Lockhart to Tom Packard may .find they have gas style hghtmg, cedar beams and overcome by carbon monoxtde regulations concerning unfinished inspect the room." 


server 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's Vol. XII, No. 37 . Wednesday, October 19, 1977 
HPC considers SLC issue 
by Michael Lewis  other things besides dorm life, "he  Agreeing  with  Haley  that  more  
Staff Reporter  added.  leadership  is  needed,  he  also  
"I'd like to have the chance to  noted that the structure of the SLC  
Peter  Haley,  chairman  of  the  put the SLC back on it's feet," he  would make  it  more  effective in  
StudentLife Council, addressed the  said. ''With the opportunity I think  dealing with all aspects of student  
Hall President's Council last night  I can organize the SLC and make it  life.  
seeking  a "vote of confidence" for  more effective."  "Dave  Bender  (Student Body  - 
the SLC. Haley wanted the HPC to  Mark  Huard,  HPC  representa­ President) seems to think that the  
endorse  the  SLC  as  a  ''viable  tive to the SLC, state, "if they (the  structure  of  the  SLC  led  to  its  
organization''  in  the  light  of  a  SLC) use their potential, they can  ineffectiveness. In my opinion it is.  
Student Government  proposal  to  go  a long way.  I think the CLC  the lack of leadership," he contin­ 
abolish the SLC and replace it with  would start off with a bang, but in  ued. "The reins are there.  If some  
a Campus Life Council.  the  long  run  it  is  not  in  the  student comes along and picks up  
The HPC was not able to reach  student's best interest."  the reins it (the SLC) can be driven  
an  agreement  on  the  matter.  The  membership  of  the  SLC  to  do  a  lot  of  good,"  Huard ·  
Several  hall  presidents  said  that  includes  five  administrators;  five  concluded.  
they were not informed of the CLC  faculty members and five students.  In other matters, Chip  Scanlon  
well enough to  vote for  endorse­ Three of the students are elected  proposed hall hockey nights at the  
ment of the SLC.  representatives of the north quad,  ACC.  The  HPC  unanimously  
Haley said that, inherent in the CLC proposal was the opinion that the SLC is inneffective because of  the south quad, and off-campus. The other two represent the Stu­dent Government and the HPC.  accepted the proposal which would set up specific nights for hall residents to attend hockey games.  
its structure.  He claimed that the  Haley said that this structure gives  The  purpose  of the  nights  is  to  
SLC's problems did not stem from its structure, but from lack of leadership and organization in past years. Haley emphasized that he did not disapprove of the CLC, but believes that the SLC is "a very valuable aspect of this com­munity." He continued, "the CLC is worthwhile in a different context."  the SLC a balance which enables it to reach compromises between the students, faculty, and administra­tion. The proposed CLC would be made up of six rectors, four hall vice-presidents, two faculty mem­bers and one representative each from the Student Government, Student Union and the HPC. There are also provisions for three ex­ provide support for the hockey team while students can interact socially. St. Mary's dorms will also be invited to balance out the male-female ratio. An Tostal Chairman John Rooney announced a meeting to be held tonight at 6:30 in LaFortune. Rooney will present the An Tostal proposals to the SMC Board of Governance Thursday.  HEY SENIORtsSf!~::::::::::t::4~~  
"By dissolving the SLC we lose the last chance we have to deal with problems outside of the dormitories The SLC centers around many Contaminant investigationcontinues  officio members. Russell, said that the HPC was ''inadequately informed to make a resolution," noting that the CLC was not represented. It was also noted in discussion by several hall presidents that the HPC had not had the opportunity to evaluate the CLC. Huard claimed that the SLC has "tremendous potential, but it  Russell thanked the HPC for their support in the United Way Campaign. He noted that close to $4600 was raised by the student body, which is more than last year's total. "I thought that was really excellent,'' he added. Russell also commented on the progress of the HPC this semester. "I think we've done a lot. I went over the minutes, and we've cov- Everything you've always wanted to know about San Francisco is in the Observer supplement, .pages 7-10 (we knew you were afraid to ask).  
by Mary Pat Tarpey  needs to be sold to the students."  [Contlnued on page 13]  
 

Staff Reporter 

A private investigator joined the 
Rectors' reactions vary on proposal
Indiana State Police in investigat­ing the discovery of sodium hydrox­by PhD Cacldey the disciplinary procedure. are approved, Jenky claimed. alcohol and marijuana. "Students ide in the North Dining Hall last Senior Staff Reporter Fr. Danie!Jenky, rector of Dillon "Even as theory, the j-boards as an can and should handle these pro­Friday, according to Richard Conk­Hall, stated that the proposal issue have been important to only a blems," he explained. "J-boards lin, director of Information Ser­Residence hall rectors reacted "doesn't involve a change in reality very small group of people," he will be able to exert more force on vices. Theinvestigatorhired by the yesterday with a wide range of . . . in regular practice, these added. students in violation. of rules university, is an experienced, re­comments to the Student Life changes make official what has Jenky added that there never are because they are peers of the tired law enforcement officer who Council (SLC) proposal on discipli­been going on." Jenky underlined any real disciplinary problems, students. Peers are often consi­wishes to remain anonymous. nary procedures. The proposal the fact that, while j-boards exist "even in a hall like Dillon,'' dered more relevant than rectors 
The state police began interview­constitutes a major revision of the almost as a "sort of protection" although he stated that when the who are usually though of as 'out of ing North Dining Hall employees University Rules and Regulations against a possible abuse of power j-board in Dillon has been used, he it'." on Monday morning. Conklin. section of duLac, the student by a rector, j-boards are too has found it to be very responsible. There is an active interest in St. added that the investigators have manual, and includes an important cumbersome for the "day-in, day­"I'm for j-boards," he said. Ed's j-board, he said, and not announced any new informa­delineation of the responsibilities out business of disciplinary con­An opposite opinion was expres­although the group has only dealt tion regarding the incident. and functioning of hall judicial · trols." sed by Fr. Mario Pedi, rector of St. with "minor matters" thus far this "There hasn't been any cases of boards. The hall staff, and particularly Edward's Hall. Although he said year, there is no limitation of the 
students coming in contact with the Over half of the rectors contacted the rector, are capable of handling the proposed changes would not areas over which the group has substance or any new tampering," said the proposed changes will not disciplinary cases better most of affect his hall, which already had jurisdiction. Pedi stated that stated Conklin. make much difference, although a the time, Jenky asserted, noting an active j-board, the halls without marijuana violations were dealt A North Dining Hall employee number thought the proposal to be that often students would rather active j-boards would be signifi­with last year by the j-board in St. 
discovered the sodium hydroxide in a very positive move. The impor­deal with the staff than the cantly affected by the proposal. Ed's. a barrel of sugar last Friday. The tance of hall j-boards was down­j-boards. "Students feel they're "Perhaps now that things are "The j-boards won't be as hap­substance used in making soap, played by many rectors, who said dealt with more quickly and pri­spelled out, more rectors will be hazard as before," Pedi main­
rayon and paper also appeared in a there are not many disciplinary vately," he explained. "And more aware of the j-boards and tained, due to the standardization sugar dispenser and a salt shaker. cases in the halls, and very few sometimes, they get a better deal." begin using them," Pedi said, implemented under the proposal. 
Edmund Price, director of Food students are concerned with judi­It is rare that students want to be pointing to the positive effects of Thts University-wide consistency Services commented, ''All our cial boards as a vital issue. heard by the j-board, or that he the proposal. would be good, he said, because food service personnel are watch­However, at least three rectors refers a case to the j-board, he said. Pedi said he liked the idea of rectors wouldn't be "hampered by ing for any new tampering. We're report active j-boards in halls "The changes would not have giving hall j-boards jurisdiction a j-board which is not serious or all upset about it.'' where students do participate in any dramatic effect at all,'' if they over disciplinary matte~s involving [Continued on page 13] 
r-r--~----------------------------~----~------------------------------------------------------------------,. 
the Observer Wednesday, October 19, 1977 
~News Briefs____·"h"'.....,.~~h~·~ US agrees to exercise restraint in studying human rights records 
BELGRADE, Yugoslavia [API • The United States, under pressure from its allies, has apparently agreed to exercise restraint in reviewing the human rights record of the Soviet Union and Communist Eastern Europe, sources re­ported yesterday. 
Arthur J. Goldberg, chief of the 
U.S. delegation to the Helsinki review conference, is still examin­ing the issue, with NATO member delegations, officials say. 
But diplomatic sources reported that for the time being, at least, ~e 
Juniors sponsor 
t-shirt contest 
Andy McKenna, junior class president, has announced that the junior class is sponsoring aT-Shirt Design Contest. The Class needs ideas for its T-shirt, so it is offering $20 to the student who submits the best design in terms of creativity and quality artwork. All partici­pants may develop their own ideas or work on some ideas that have already been submitted to the class. All interested students should contact Sally Platt (1296) or Bruce McCaffrey (3321). 
United Way

correction 

In yesterday's Observer the final results figures for Flanner and Fisher Halls were interchanged. Fisher Hall's results should have read 96.3 percent participation, $228 collected, and $1.20 collected per person. Flanner Hall's results should have read 77.6 percent participation, $413 collected, and SO. 77 collected per person. All other figures were correctly stated and the totals remain unaffected. 
*The Observer 
Night Editor: Marti Hogan 
Asst. Night Editor: Sandy 
Colson 
layout Staff: Dawn Miller, 
Margie Brassil, Kathy Mills, 
"Reg-gie" Kendra 
Editorial layout: Judy Rap­
precht 
Sports layout: Tony Pace and 
Frank Anasti Typists: Mark Rust, Tricia Meehan, Eileen Lynch, Tom Powanda Night Controller: Mardi Nevin Day Editor: Maribeth Moran 
Copy Reader: Mike Villani 
Ad layour: John O'Donnel 
Photographer: Barb McGrath 
The Observer Is published Mon­dey tllrough Frldey except during exem end v~~atlon periods. Tl)e Observer Is published by the students of Notre Deme end S.lnt Mery's College. Subscriptions mey be purchesed for $20 per yeer IS I o per semester) from The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notnt Deme, lndlene 46556. Second cless postege peld, Notnt Deme, lndlene, 4US6. . The Observer ·11 e member of 
~=======================================World 
24 dead in guerrilla attacks 
MANAGUA, Nlcangua --Nicaraguan security forces searched cars and positioned soldiers behind sandbags in this Central American capital yesterday after suffering heavy losses in recent guerrilla attacks. At least 24 persons have died in the last six days in confrontations between guerrillas and the national guard, including 15 military men, six guerrillas, and three civilians, government sources said. 
I==~======== National 
Trial set in hearing 
URBANA, m. --A 28-year-old murder suspect was found competent yesterday to stand trial in Circuit court in Champaign County, Ill. His hearing lasted just 20 minutes. The suspect, Judge Turner of Indianapolis, is charged in the shooting death of a Champaign man on Dec. 5, 1976. 

IU may re_fuse quota 
INDIANAPOUS --The Indiana University School of Medicine will not follow proposed guidelines for admitting foreign-trained American, even though it may lose a Sl million federal grant if the Healt Manpower Act is passed by Congress. A provisionof the bill would assign a quota of American students to finish their training at each U.S. medical school, regardless of their home state or academic qualifications, Dean Steven C. Deering of IU said. 




Weather 
There is a slight chance of snow flurries or a shower this morning. Becoming mostly sunny by afternoon with highs in the mid 50s. Clear and cool tonight with lows near 40. Sunny and warmer tomorrow with highs in the mid to upper 60s. 

It's warm in San Francisco 
SAN FRANCISCO* Calif. ·-It was cloudy yesterday in San Francisco, with a high temperature of 60 degrees and a low of 53. In comparable temperatures, it was clear with a high of 57 degrees in Chicago; clear and 76 in Denver; clear and 65 in Kansas City; Pittsburgh had rain and a high of 61 degrees; it was cloudy and 58 degrees in New York City; 63 degrees with rain in Boston; clear and 81 degrees in Miami: and clear with a high of 89 degrees in Honolulu yesterday. 

,..On Campus Today_~ 
12:15 pm 
3 pm 
3:25 pm 
4 pm 
4 pm 
4:30 pm 7 pm 7, 9:15 & 
11:15 pm 7:30pm 
8 pm 
8 pm 
8:15pm 9:3oJ 11 :oo pm! midnight 
seminar, "studies on the depolarization of the ecoli cell membrane by colicin el", by dr. michael gould, sponsored by the chem dept. rm. 278 galvin life-sci aud. 
workshop, job search clinic by betsy twitchell, sponsored by the smc career development center, stapleton lounge. 
seminar, "phase transition as a problem in bifurcation theory," by prof. john j. kozak, rm. 269 chem. engr. bldg. 
lecture, "captial and technology in less developed countries: technology" by dr. arnold c. harsberger, sponsored by the econ. dept, rm. 122 hayes healy. 
lecture, "the consumer takeover" by paul foley, sponsored by the college of business, rm. 122 hayes-healy. 
lecture, pianist, leo smith, sponsored by the smc music dept, little theatre smc 
presentation, touche ross presentation to students, sponsored by the placement bureau, lib. aud. 
film, "longest yard", sponsored by the nd-smc council for the retarded, engr. aud. $1. 
american scene "science and society" by gerald elkan, carroll hall smc. 
concert, "newport jazz festival all-stars" sponsored by the smc performing arts series, o'laughlin aud., adults $5, stud. $3. 
meeting, with moose krause, fischer hall basement 
concert, un iv. of nd orchestra, sponsored by the music dept., washington hall. 
nazz, "rock-jazz in the nazz" the almost three o'clock rock-jazz group, basement of Iafortune. 
album hour, "kansas point of know return" wsnd 
United States may moderate its 
tactics order not to ''get too far in 
front of the allies." 
The question is whether to cite 
countries and cases by name when 
reviewing implementation of the 
1975 Helsinki accords. 
The accords, signed at a summit 
meeting in the Finnish capital by 
the United States, the Soviet 
influence in Eastern Europe in 
exchange for what the West views 
as promises of greater human 
rights in the Communist countries. 
The United States came to the Belgrade follow-up conference pre­pared to document 1 ,500 cases involving a total of 5,000 persons who had been blocked from joining relatives in the West in alleged violations of the accords on family unification, the sources said. 
But its allies in the North Atlantic alliance . are said to fear that naming names will provoke harsh reaction and be counterpro­ductive if any commitments from the East Bloc are to be gained. 
U.S. restraint would have three aims, the sources reported: to preserve allied unity, to avoid a confrontation with the Soviets so a full review can be carried out, and 
to ensure that further review 
conferences can be held after 
Belgrade in order to keep pressure 
on the East. 
So far, the United States has 
directly criticized the Soviet Union 
only once during the two-week old 
conference, accusing it of tamper­
ing with mail from the West. 
West Germany on Monday men­
tioned high exit visa fees in the 
Soviet Union, Bulgaria and Poland 
and complained that East Germany 
was blocking cased of families 
seeking to be reunited. 
In concert with its 14 NATO allies, however, the United States is still undecided at what point it would single out specific cases and countries. Some countries have proposed this be done ''in response to attacks" from the east, the sources said. 
U.S. officials emphasize that differences among the allies aren't serious and only concern degree on tactics. 
Nevertheless, one source de­scribed Goldberg as an ''isolated figure" among the NATO delega­tion chiefs, with virtually every NATO country insisting the West take a more cautious approach. 
the Anocleted Prell. All ntpro­ductlon rights ent reserved. 

t~~~*~***********************t
~ ~C?· STANFORD HALL ~~~-1t~ * 
~ ~o.._, INVITES YOU TO ~... ~ ~ ~e OUR * ~ ....0~ u + * 
~ .tterly S.loshed C.rocked * 
notre dame student union & sunshine promotions 
presents 



introducing 

·The Norton Buffalo Stampede FRIDAY, OCTOBER 21 8:00PM Notre Dame ACC 
Tickets: $8.00, $7.00 

All Seats Reserved 
on sale now at the ACC box office & the student union box office 
~ 

~ Happy Hour 
! WHERE: KUBIAK'S TAVERN 
~ TIME: 3-6 P.M. (INDIANA TIME) ~ A WHEN: FRIDAY OCT. 21 ~ 7rc 

~ <9~~-s-~-~'s LIVE ENTERTAINMENT 
~ "/.>s_O;r by NIGHTFLIGHT! 
* 
~ ~ 
*~ *
~ 
x-~<.-~-~.'·*
*
GJ'\40 






'----a-m-64G_.---------·*****************************.~ 
----~----------------------~~...-~-.--~----------------~-----,

Alumni join students for dance 
by Jana Schutt Staff Reporter 

The Homecoming Committee of the Student Union has planned many activites for the USC football game weekend. One of the events is · a semiformal dance featuring Tony Barron and his Orchestra. 
Diane Ross, co-chairperson of the Homecoming Committee, an­nounced that this year's dance will be somewhat different than pre­vious years. The alumni who are· visiting for the week-end will also be invited. This is the reason that a limited number of tickets was made available to students. Alumni tickets will be sold before and after the game. Both students and 
alumni may purchase tickets at the 
door while supplies last. Price is 
$6. 
The decorations this year are 
elaborate and follow the theme of 
"Those Were the Days". Plans 
have been made to serve punch and 
hors d'oeuvres. 
A ticket bar will also be on hand. 
Drink tickets cost $1 on presenta­-tion of a 21 ID. These can be used to buy one mixed drink or a beer 
and a mixer. 
The Committee is also sponsor­
ing a hall decorating contest. 
Prizes are $250, $150 and $100 for 
the three top winners. Judges will 
be inspecting the dorms beginning 
United Way campaign pushes over halfway mark 
by Mike Villani Staff Reporter This years United Way campaign has reached 59.2 percent of their 
2.5 million dollar goal according to General Campaign Chairman Dr. George M. Haley. 
Division chairmen reports total­led $1,330,902 as of Thursday, Oct. 13 Haley said. His address at the general report meeting last week called for intense volunteer effort£ because, according to Haley, "the next final two weeks are crucial for meeting our goal.'' Haley urged the volunteers to get their reports in so the pledges can be counted. 
According to Professor Charles Wilbur, Universtiy director of United Way, "the total University volunteer effort into the campaign was phenomenal and beyond what was expected." As of last Thurs­day, the combined effort of stu­dents, staff, faculty and adminis­trators totaled $32,000 stated Wilbur. 
The breakdown was as follows: students, $2500 (presently $4600); faculty,$15 thousand; administra­tors, $7500; and staff $7 thousand. Figure updates will be available tomorrow and reported after Oct. break. 
Wilbur emphasized that this 
[Continued on at 3 p.m. on Friday. They are looking for originality. 


Some regulations have been published concerning banners and posters on the dorms. No slogans with double meanings will be allowed. Any dorm which displays such a sign will be disqualified from the decorating competition. If the dorm displays the banner after the judging, its prize money will be forfeited. Also, any individual caught displaying such a poster is subject to disciplinary actions. 
According to standard university policy, banners will be allowed on the field at halftime as long as they adhere to certain precautionary measure. The Student Union has set up the following guidelines: 
1) Anyone who wishes to display a banner on tht filed at halftime must bring the banner to the SU Social commissioner's office 1-5 
p.m. Wednesday through Friday or 10-11 a.m. on Saturday. 
2) At this time the SU will issue the student a receipt. 
3) The SU will transport the banners to the stadium where they may be collected inside 'Gate 15 beginning one half hour before the game. Yon must have your receipt. 4)At halftime, both the banner and the receipt must be taken to the Field Entrance Gate in the Student Body section for admittance to the field. 
If there are any questions con­cerning slogans call the SU Commissioner's office at 6244 or Mike Carlson, assistant social com­missioner, at 1535. 

Relive 89 years of "Fighting Irish" football history with THE NOTRE DAME 
FOOTBALLSCRAPBOOK
__~0 ,~8~0~~~~~~ 
by RICHARD M. COHEN, JORDAN A. DEUTSCH, and DAVID S. HEFT 
Here's a thrilling, action-packed panorama of Notre Dame football, from the first game in 1887 to the Gator Bowl of 1976. With over 130 action photos, plus facsimiles of rare newspaper clip­pings, old programs, scorecards, and other "Fighting Irish" memorabilia, THE NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL SCRAPBOOK brmgs the legends to life: the tragedies of Rockne and Gipp, the play­by-play excitement of 1935's immortal "Game of the Century" with Ohio State, the legendary games with Army. and much more. Size 8'12 x 11 
• Illustrated • $6.95 softbound • Now at your bookstore 
~-BOBBS·MERRILL 
CJr Tl Publishers since 1838 
•• f ! { I . c L I ' ,, I . ' " " > J} . i l < l ; ~ I, o( I I I ) r 
Wed.!'~~ay, Octo~r'-1.:.:9..... .... ....... _..,3
, ...:.19.:.:77~___..tba'-'o_bt31sery._.er..___ 
Body of coed found 
MARTINSVILLE, Ind. [AP] -A badly decomposed body found in a cornfield was tentatively identified yesterday as that of missing Indi­ana University coed Ann Louise Harmeier, authorities said. 
Positive identification awaited a check of fmgerprints and dental records. 
The 20-year old Miss Harmeier has been missing more than five weeks, her disappearance trigger­ing a nation-wide search and an outpouring of time, concern and money from her hometown, the small eastern Indiana community of Cambridge City. 
The body was found in mid­afternoon by a farmer harvesting corn about five miles from Miss Harmeier disappeared along Indi­ana 37 two miles north of here Sept. 12. 
Morgan County Coroner James Summers said the body was that of a female about 20 years old and appeared to have been in the field about five weeks. 
Police said the clothing at the scene -a red shirt, jeans and tennis shoes -matched the description of what Miss Harmeier was wearing when last seen. 
State troopers also said a purse found next to the body contained a paper with Miss Harmeier' s name on it and jewelry and other items known to belong to the coed. 
. A police chaplain and minister were staying with Miss Harmeier's mother, Marjorie Harmeier, in Cambridge City, authorities said. 
Asked if there were signs of foul 
Rights Coalition to finalize 
march plans 
The Groundskeepers' Rights Coalition will hold a meeting on Thursday, October 20, at 8:00P.M. at the LaFortune student center. The discussion will focus upon the finalization of plans for Friday's march from the Administration Building to the Center for Contin­uing Education. Also, there will be a discussion of future actions to be taken. 
BEER 

play, Summers said, "We couldn't tell because the body was so badly decomposed." 
State police investigators, how­ever, said they found a shoe string and a hairbrush around the young woman's neck, leading them to believe she might have been strangled. 
Summers said the body will be taken to Indianapolis for an autopsy to determine the cause of death. 
The farmer, Lawrence Stafford, said he was working in the field about seven miles northeast of Martinsville. 
"I was just going along picking corn and ran on the body laying there between two rows," Stafford said. 
He said his children often ride motorbikes through the area and a recently as Monday, his small son, Jim, rode within ten feet of where the body was found and noticed nothing. 
When the body was first found, State Police Maj. Stan Kenney said it was unknown whether it was male or female, but he added, "Of course, we're kind of assuming it's Ann." 
Crime lab technicians were dis­patched to the scene from two state police posts to aid in identification, Kenny said. 
Miss Harmeier, 20, has been missing since Sept. 12, when her disabled car, with its emergency lights blinking, was found abandoned along the same stretch of Indiana 37. She was returning to IU's Bloomington campus from her home in Cambridge City when she disappeared. 
1 

...Y_O_U__ne_e_d_a_.... 
printer 

and here's why 
U!e~r-m tk~needc£ air ~' 1iudentt, 
~,-dulnand 







Help Needed 
ANY JUNIOR FROM ND OR SMC INTERESTED IN WORKING ON 
Jr. Class Fortnal 

OrganizationMeeting 
Wed. Oct. . •• 7 pm La Fortune Amphitheater 
Any Questions·can Marnie 6976 
-----------------------~---------~---~~ ~-----------------­
the observer Wednesday, October 19, 1977 

At luncheon 




Brown baggers listen to landscape history 
by Marian Ulicny 80 can be pleasant if you look for 

Senior Staff Reporter forms that pull attention to the 

landscape." 

"I hope to show you how to Landscape grew in importance discern between worthwhile art by the 15th century, Porter and the $9.95 varieties you find at a continued. "The main activity was Holiday Inn," Dean Porter, Notre placed in a tightly-compacted area Dame Art Gallery director, told 25 of the painting to get the message University staff members at this across, and the background took year's first gallery brown bag the viewer into the distance with luncheon. great detail," he stated, showing 
According to Porter, "the type of an example of meticulous back­art the public likes most is landscape ground detail in Jan Van Eyck's as far as wanting to acquire Ghent altarpiece. "The artists felt something for the home." He used detail was important because God a series of slides to chronologically resided in those details," Porter surve)landscape'srole in artthrough added. the ages. He used slides of Pieter Brughel 
During the early Christian period the Elder's paintings to illustrate in the sixth century, landscape was how the master landscape artist merely a supportive device. "The shifted perspective ot control the artist had a story in mind and viewer's eye from above the harbor needed a setting to serve as ground in "The Fall of Icarus" to the same for the people to stand on," Porter level as in the "Hunters in the explained. Snow." According to Porter, Btu-
Despite the simplicity of sixth ghel used landscape to tell a story .:entury landscapes, Porter pointed and "imply a lot of messages." 
•>Ut their basic realism. "These A new interest in classical antiq­'cttings may seem unsophisticated uity and order emerged in the 17th to us, living in the 20th century, but century "Landscape was subject to art teaches us to look at our that rationale, and artists went out ~urroundings and to see its and did copious sketches to incor­beauty," he emphasized, adding porate nature into their paintings," jokingly, "even a trip down Route he explained. 
Notre DC!me Stu~ent Ur:liC?_!l & Sunshine Present 

SATURDAY NOVEMBER 5 7:30pm 
NOTRE DAME A.C.C. 
All Seats Reserved; $8.50 & $7.50 
On Yle now at: 

ACC box office, Student ticket office, Rloberlson's-S: 
Bend & Conmrd .Mall, First Bank-Main Branch only, 
St. Joe Bank & all branches, Boogie Aemrds, Just For 
The Aemrd, The Aemrd Joint-Niles, The Elkhart Truth 
and Suspended Cord in Elkhart Rlvar City Records, S. Band 



PHOTOGRAPHERS 
Do you shoot 35 mm slides? 
At Slidecraft we specialize In processing Kodak's New Ektachrome (E-6) film. Normal 24 hour service. 
Come in and sign up for a Student Discount Card. 
to illustrate the sudden domin­ance of landscape, Porter showed a slide of Claude Lorrain's "Rest on the flight into Egypt" in which the Holy Family is pictured in the foreground of a detailed forest setting. "Figures began to play subordinate roles to the grandness of the landscape and atmospheric perspective," he noted. 
18th century landscapes fell into two rough categories, Porter stated. Stylized portraits contained flat, tapestry-like backgrounds, and idyllic. fantasy settings por­trayed "the poet's vision of what landscape might be, not the earthly realism," he remarked. 
19th century French artists are credited with painting pure land­scapes such as those done of St. 

Cloud Park outside Paris. "They were concerned with the qualities that light gives to trees and mountains, looking at the land­scape for its inherent qualities, not another level of meaning," Porter explained. 
He concluded by inviting the audience back to the gallery to view the actual paintings of which many of the slides were taken. "You'll find the images themselves quite exciting, not only as slides, but in real life," he stressed. 
Porter created the program last year to expand interest in the gallery. Each month, a member of the Notre Dame art department will give a slide presentation or lecture demonstration of a general art topic during the noon hour. University staff members are mvited to bring their lunches while they obset ve the program. 
Porter explained his motivation for continuing the program, sta­ting, "too many people go to work from eight to five with their only benetit being a paycheck. There should be other benetits, especially at a university." He described the gallery as another service the University can offer to its employ­ees. 
Several secretaries agreed with the purpose of the program. "I know so little about art, anything I can get here helps out," one woman commented. Another sec­retary added, • 'They never stopped the program once they started it, so they must have realized there was a need for it.'' 

Splat spitter suffers second loss 
BLOOMFIELD* Ky. (AP)-Mike Hahn stood and watched with a jaw plugged full of tobacco and squared in confidence as spitter after spitter tried and failed to better his 21 foot effort. 
Marion D. Creech, 39, held the early lead with a 21 footer in the Bloomfield Tobacco Festival Spit­tin' Contest over the weekend but suffered a "splat" on this third try and knew it was all over. 
A "splat" occurs when the expectorant fails to measure as large as a quarter when it lands on the plastic mat on which distances are outlined. Spitters score a zero for a "splat" or when they lose the chaw and it dribbles down their chin, contest official Don Wells said. 
"I've been trying this for four years," the disappointed Creech said as he watched the 15 year old Hahn collecting the gold-plated championship spittoon for the sec­ond straight year. Creech was also given a smaller gold spittoon for being runnerup. 
"My daddy, cousin .. everybody in my family just about chews," 

Hahn said. "I've been chewing a 
few  years  I reckon.  Our  whole  
softball team chews.  It's nothing  
new around here."  


It wasn't as if Hahn didn't have plenty of competition as past 
champion VictorCoulter of Taylors­ville was among those taking his puckers. Coulter, however, had a bad day and his best effort was just 16 feet. 
Hahn's victory spit was a festival record, bettering his 1976 record spit of 18 feet, but well shy of the world's mark. 
Harold Fielden of Central City, 


Study Help Program seeks tutors for this semester 
The  Neighborhood Study Help  South Bend grade school children scheduled during which admission  
Program still needs tutors for this  with  math  and  reading  on  an directors, placement officers, and  
semester. If you would like to tutor  individual basis. To sign up call the recent MBA graduates will address  
and  have  not  signed  up,  the  student-captain ofthe center whose the question: "What difference  
following  centers  are  welcoming  tutoring time fits your schedule. can an MBA make?"  
volunteers.  You would be helping  Each forum is to be held on three  
Studebaker  3:45-5:15 MW  consecutive days: Kim MacKinnon (4234 SMC)  
Methodist  3:50-5:15 TT  October 27-29, 1977 New YorkMary Moffitt (5795 SMC) City. Roosevelt Hotel  
Jefferson  2:10-3:25 MW  November 17-19, 1977 Chicago,Judy Cole (7395 ND) Holiday Inn, Mart Plaza  
St. John  12:45-2:15 TT  December 1-3, 1977 SanTim Craig (1697 ND) Francisco, Hyatt on Union Square  
Marquette  12:45-2:15 TT  Bill Pollock (8502 ND) Hours are from noon to 7:30p.m.  
St. Joe  5:40-7:00 TT  on Thursday and Friday, and fromJoanne Harrington (4704 SMC) 10:00 a.m. to 5:00p.m. on Saturday  
McKinley  2:10-3:30 MW  Admission is free. Rick Van Beveren (287-6372)  


EED A CHANGE OF PACE? 
...________: consider the 
NOTRE DAME APARTMENTS 
CLOSE TO CAMPUS! APARTMENTS STILL AVAILABLE 
2 bedrooms -completely furnished complete kitchen and dining room $280 -300/ ~onth up to 4 students 
call Candy at 233-6363 or 234-6647 
Colo., spurted a stream of tobacco 
juice 34 feet, 1/2inch July 13, 1973 
at Central City's Third Inter­
national Spittin', Belchin,' and 
Cussin' Triathlon. 
"Distance depends on the qual­
ity of salivation, absence of cross 
wind, two finger pressure, and the 
coordination of the quick hip and 
neck snap,'' Fielden said when 
asked to explain his phenomenal 
feat. 
Hahn, who doesn't use two 
finger pressure, doesn't care about 
cross winds or hips and neck 
coordination explains: "I just rare 
back and spit." 
MBA Admissions Forums offered in major cities 
Three MBA Admission Forums are being offered as a service of the Graduate Management Admission Council to assist people interested in learning more about graduate management education. Prospec­tive applicants and admissions personnel will be able to talk together about admission proce­dures. curriculum offerings, and career opportunities in manage­ment. In addition. workshops are 
------------------------------~--~-----------.----------------------------------------------------------------------------~------.---~ 

by MoUy WouHe 

Over a hundred people assem­bled last night in Carrol Hall in Madeleva for an hour and a half lecture on "World Protein Shor­tage." Gerald Elkan, an assistant dean for research and a professor of microbiology at North Carolina State University, was the guest speaker. 
A major problem confronting the food shortage is a high birthrate in underdeveloped nations. "The disaster is that we're not increasing our productivity at the same rate as the population," stated Elkhan. "Most of the world never sees meat. Grain is the most common edible protein--and two-thirds of the world are deficient in it," continued Elkan. 
With the use of slides, Elkan also explained how the scarcity and costliness of fertilizers and sources of energy have added to the crisis. Crop-producing lands are also decreasing, due to growing cities and towns. Elkan emphasized, "In the last fifteen years we've created 3 per cent more desert lands from total world land." 
The best immediate solution to increase food supplies, continued Elkan, is to produce 'synthetic proteins' and raise more legumes (pod-bearing plants, such as peas and beans, that enrich the soil as they grow). 
"Right now there are 8 billion people on the earth," he stressed. "By the year 2020 there's going to be 12 billion people. Years from now you're going to have to feed those people, so you should become concerned now. You people are going to be the decision­makers. Heaven help us!" he added jokingly. 
Students were invited to stay for a brief question and answer session at the conclusion of the lecture. 
Elkan, a noted scientist, has many honors and awards to his credit, and is currently working on the problem of world hunger. 
ND offers study abroad for clergy 
The young Institute for Clergy Education at the University of Notre Dame will offer an interna­tional program next year. accord­ing to Rev. Robert S. Pelton, 
C. S.C., director. 
The Institute will next spring offer directed study at the Notre Dame-administered Ecumenical Institute for Advanced Theological Studies near Jerusalem, combined with visits to Rome and archeologi­cal sites in Greece. The extended 12 weeks in residence at Notre Dame, will begin February 20 and end June 10. 
Limited primarily to priest who have been ordained at least ten years, the participants are enrolled in classes designed to improve personal spirituaJ counseling, guidance in human growth, pas­toral reflection, needs assessment, personal goal setting. establish­ment of suppoti groups and other areas of study. 
Father Pelton works closely with 
-Wednesday, October 19, 1977 the ObServer ___5 
Simple churc~ ceremony pays tribute to ~inger Bing Crosby. _ 
LOS ANGELES [AP]-Bing Crosby was buried in a misty hillside cemetery yesterday after a simple church service that began with the strains of such Crosby hits as "The Bells of St. Mary's" and "Too-RA-Loo-Ra-Loo-Ral, That's an Irish Lullaby." 
The Mass of the Resurrection was held in predawn darkness to avoid a crush of fans seeking to pay last tribute to one of the world's most famous entertainers, who died of a heart attack Friday in · Spain at age 73. 
About 35 relatives and asso­dates, including Crosby's close friend Bob Hope, attended the 6 
Rigged explosion k.,, b •
I s USinessman 
EVANSVILLE,Ind. (AP1 
A wealthy city businessman died yesterday when his car exploded in 
. the parking lot of an eastside health spa. authorities said. 
Ray Ryan, 72, was apparently killed by professionals who rigged a bomb to the car, said Frank Cook, a local officer of the federal Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms He said there were no immediate suspects in the case. 
The window shattering explosion happened just after Ryan finished a two-hour workout at the Olympia Health and Beauty Resort, Cook 
, said. Ryan, who became a million­aire in the 1930's as owner of the Ryan Oil Co., was dead on arrival at St. Mary's Hospital. 
Cook said the bomb was large and attached to the front of the car, but he did not know what explosive was used or how it was detonated. The health spa's owner told officers that Ryan joined about three months ago but visited the spa irregularly. 
Ryan was pulled from the burning car by an employee of a neighboring auto-parts store who told police he heard the explosion 
and saw the flames, Cook said. 
Besides his oil interests, Ryan owned hotels in several states and the Mount Kenya Safari Club in East Africa. 
In 1970, a California judge sentenced Ryan to three years in prison and fined him $3,000 for allegedly altering the club's membership records, but he won acquittal in Dec. 17, 1971. The Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals in Los Angeles ruled then that there was insufficient evidence to support conviction. 
a.m. service in a small chapel at St. Paul's Roman Catholic Church in Westwood. 
There were no fans outside on 
the foggy streets. 
When he lived at Holmby Hills, 
Crosby worshipped at the Spanish 
mission style church. The quiet 
service there was in response to his 
wish for a simple funeral and 
burial. 
Crosby's body, resting in an oak 
casket topped by a blanket of Sonia 
roses, was buried near a stone 
grotto in Holy Cross Cemetary 
beside his parents and first wife, 
Dixie Lee, who died of cancer in 
1952. 
The roses were the only adorn­
ment for the brief graveside cere­
mony, but carloads of flowers 
arrived later from admirers around 
the world. 
The cemetary, in suburban Cui­-very city, is not far from Metro-Go!­
Crosby's widow, -Kathryn, led a responsive reading. 
"I think he died a contented man," Crosby's. son, Phillip, said after the service. "He accomp­lished everything he set out to do, but he had a lot more to give. We lost him early." 
Mrs. Crosby, her face steeled, 
,entered the chapel 20 minutes before the service with her children Harry, 19, Nathaniel,15, and Mary Frances, 17. Also present were Crosby's sons by his first marriage, Gary, Dennis, Phillip and Lindsay; his brother Bob Crosby, and his sister, Mary Rose Pool. His six sons were pallbearers. 
Other mourners included such show business companions as Bob Hope and his wife, Dolores; Rose­mary Clooney, who sang with Crosy in his final concerts and comedian Phil Harris. Some of Crosby's business associates, fish­
Notre Dame's Center for Pastoral and Social Ministry, in the direc­tion of the institute. Other groups 
Discounts on Shelf Prices!
associated with the center are the Notre Dame Center for Pastoral Liturgy, directed by Rev. John Gallen, S.J.; the Catholic Commit­
1-4 Botfres ---10% off 
tee on Urban Ministry, directed by Sr. Margaret Cafferty, P.B.V.M.; 
5-11 Bottles ---15% off 1 The Center for Human Develop­ment, directed by Rev. Vincent 
'12-over Bottles ---20% off' Dwyer, and The Religious Leaders Program, directed by Peggy Roach. 

COUPON-----------------­
We Welcome All Students to the KNIGHTS! 

8c: 
~ 
z 

5453;~t~~,~ ~a!~~l J 
Tues. and Wed -1 0 :30 am-6:30 Thurs. and Fri._. 8:30 am • 8 :30 Sat. -8:30 am-5:00 pm Closed Monday 
·­

-.-......................~·-··-..........._.._••~;a'-&'"'.-~"1-... 
...... ' '·....·. . .· ..· •······..·.·.··•·.·..· ·. . . .'·..·.'• .· .· ,.; •..•. ....... .. .· ~·:· .·:-.·.· ...,.. 
dwyn-Mayer Studios where Crosby ing  companions  and  personal  
made  one  of his earliest movies,  friends also attended.  
"Going Hollywood," in 1934.  Before  the  service,  an  organ  

At sunset Monday, a torch was softly played melodies, from lighted at the Memorial Coliseum Crosby's 50-year career, including in downtown Los Angeles. It had "Galway Bay," "Wrap Your been lighted only twice before after Troubles in Dreams" and "Wait the deathes of President John F. Till the Sunshines Nellie," which Kennedy and his brother, Robert. he often sang in duet with his wife. 
The service early Tuesday for The body arrived from Spain on Crosby, a devout Roman Catholic, Monday night and was met at Los was conducted by Fr. Ellwood Angeles International Airport by Kieser. Mrs. Crosb and her children. 


----------------~---------------------­
~ p . 0 . 8oX Q!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
A personal thanks 

Deu Editor: 
I would like topublicly thank Fr. Griffin for reminding all of us that stones are far to easy to cast and thanks far too hard to say. No one is perfect, and a lot of imperfect people needed to be reminded of that. 
Thanks, Griff, for helping me drop my stone, and thanks Obser­ver for letting him write out the message. 
Bai-bara A. Cullom 
. Sexist attitudes and stereotypes 
Dear Editor: 
In regards to the moratorium 
imposed upon the N.D./S.M.C. 
calender, as a female at Notre 
Dame, I have the following 
statements to make. 
First of all, with all the contro­
versy over the stereotypical sex­
roles and sexist attitudes of today, 
one would think by posing for the 
calender that I endorsed these 
female stereotypes; i.e. coy, 
flirtatous, vain, seductive, and dependent. Quite the contrary is 
true. 

The calender presented healthy, uninhibited, and individualistic women who felt comfortable with themselves and appearances. To ban such a form of expression of oneself is a true threat to one's freedom as an individual. 
This discrimination is indeed frustrating, especially in this case, when the calendar was presented . in such a tasteful and nonsexist manner. When will we ever respect women for who they are as individuals rather than always trying to see them as sex objects? 
A Calender Girl 
Enthusiasm IS• 
no excuse 
Deu Students: 

I have slept where you present­ly sleep; I have eaten where you presently eat on the Notre Dame campus; I have attended classes in the same classrooms in which you participate, and I have also sat as part of the student body at home football games, the same as you. 
In attending the Michigan State football game, I came away a little embarassed in behalf of the football team. My feelings were much the same as many of those who sat around us in the season ticket section, most of whom I believe were also alumni. 
Notre Dame stands for sports­manship which we have every right to believe will be exemplified to the fullest by those who participate in a given sport on the field. It certainly was exemplified by our football team. Sportsmanship should not, however be excused or be replaced by enthusiasm. Enthusiasm should not be a substitute for sportsman­ship or be a reason why it is not practiced. The enthusiasm of the student body is important to thpse who participate in any sport, but when that enthusiasm reaches the boundaries of unsportsmanlike conduct, then that enthusiasm should be restrained. So it was in many of our opinions that the student body, through excessive enthusiasm, participated in unsportsmanlike conduct in not permitting the players on the field, who after all must decide the outcome of any contest, the oppor­tunity to function to their fullest. 
It is in behalf of the alumni of Notre Dame that I would hope the students will in the future show the good sportsmanship they expect from the football players them­selves. 
Thomas H. auk 
United Way 
a great 
success 

Dear Editor: 
The students of Notre Dame are to commended. We are first in events other than athletics. The United Way Drive in the residence halls wa£-a great success. 
op1n1on 
Where Lies the Heart? 
Dear Editor: 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii___. david cwi k , 
One of the more intriguing phenomena of our decade is the proliferation of popular books which attempt to tell you how to go about understanding yourself. Almost every bookstore carries titles such as How To Win Friends and Influence People; I'M OK* YOU'RE OK, and You Are Your Own Best Friend. The usual 
' conclusion of these books is that you understand yourself by learning to love yourself. Preoccupation with 'finding yourself, however, results from modern man's ego. The old gods having gone into decline the Self is the new God. God, Nature, Humanity, even Society have been c!iscarded. As an example, Walt Whitman's "Song of Myself' blithely states'; 
I celebrate myself and sing myself I know I am august. I do not trouble my spirit to vindicate itself or be under­stood..... . 
I will effuse egoism and show 
it underlying all. 

The result of our apotheosis of ego is however a misdirection of the heart. 
Certain expressions such as "self­realization" and "self-fullfillment" are familiar illustrations of this 
trend. b contemporary times certain similar new expressions have gained currency. We hear about "respect for personality"; 
respect for "self-activity"; respect for "self-study." We learn that the first thing a man has to do before 
attempting anything is to ''find himself." We are told that "self-acceptance" is a necessary 
precondition to character. That a man dare not let anything interfere with his self-acceptance. 
An example of this doctrine of centrality of self is Erich Fromm's 
·­
Our obligations to care for the poor of our city are never totally met with contributions plunked in cans outstretched from solicitors. 
Rather, each student was asked to contribute a dollar--that's where we were united. The generosity of those who contributed more was 
greatly appreciated but did not suffice for those who chose not to contribute. Participation was our 
goal. In light of past years experience with this drive, we certainly reached that. Student Body, you were great! 
Another purpose in writing this letter is to publically thank so many students who worked exceedingly hard to make the campaign a 
success. First among those is J.P. Russell. A good man. He worked hard and has left a valuable contribution for United Way in the 
future on this campus. Thanks as well to Marti Hogan, the reporters, the night editor, all The Observer 
for being so gracious and sup­portive in the drive. Thanks to the Ombudsman, Michelle Renaldo • 
and Robin Lavender, the Hall Presidents' Council, the Community Service Commissioners, and especially those men and women troopers who actually went door to door soliciting for the poor. 
Many in the community knew the results when funding for Logan was cut. They also knew the delight in having those monies reinstated-­
the result, the hurting being cared for again. Notre Dame Student Body, you cared again and gave of your resources. With privilege and honor we thank you for the poor. 
Brother Joseph McTaggart,CSC 
Associate Director/ 
Campus Ministry 
Sexual 
identity 
not a gift 

I agree with Mr. Mayer's notion self. He even uses the term that I oversimplified the complex"neurotic unselfishness." He 
nature of Human sexuality. I agree finds that the real trouble with with Jung and Mayer that there are most alledgedly selfish persons is, feminine and masculine "parts" or not that they love themselves too , • characteristics'' in everyone'smuch, but that they do not love personality. I think though, eventhemselves enough. 
Freud had to say, that sex identityThe result of this apotheosis of the is acquired, and Ann Oakley finds 
evidence for this in her book, Sex, 
Gender 1111d Society. I had to 
answer Mr. Cwik rationally: an 
appeal to the emotions would just 
be sinking to his level. And I feel 
that saying sex identity is a "gift," 
as Mr. Mayer does, may be too vague, and may tend to ignore what we do in fact know about sex identity. 
Yes, we have all avoided Thomas Jefferson in our arguments, so lets be less "cavalier" and say that civil rights are "unalienable" as it is said in the Declaration of Independence; that men are endowed "by their creator" with civil rights; that no man, Cwik, Merman or Mayer has the right to take these rights away, and that not even the majority can vote to take away these rights. We may be 
Christians, but we have no "God­given right" to deny anyone their rights under the Constitution-
rights which include religious freedom, as stated in the First Amendment. 
Mr. Cwik's "unnatural" argument falls apart in the light of truth, his freedom "argument" is 
nearly un-American. Sorry for not reminding everyone that they have both feminine and masculine traits, 
Mr. Mayer, and I will try to find and read "The Kingdom of the Blind". I have not read it before. 
But I still feel parents should feel 
responsible for their children, and 
that sex identity is not a vague 
"gift"; that would get too many "bad guys" off the hook. Patrick W. Merman 
Sincere thanks 

Dear Editor: 
A big sincere Thank You to the 
Notre Dame students who collected 
over $800 at different business 
intersections a week ago. This was 
a great job and most appreciated by 
all concerned about Cancer. 
Thank you for enthusiastically sharing your time and helping in the fight against cancer. 
The American Cancer Soceity and those who worked with you. 
ego is that we no longer see an ultimate reality outside of ourselves. Instead, each man has become the measure of all things. As a consequence, everything is subjective. For example, we no longer hold to the belief that there is an absolute truth to which all can attain. Each man's ideas and values have become just as good as any other's. 
Also, gone is genuine charity. While a Mass becomes a means for social demol!stratio~, the neglect of a conversatiOn whtch_ would help 
*Observer 
Editorials 
The Art of IAivlng. Fromm says we-another goes ~nnottced. . We 
assuage a self-mduced gutlt by opinion
must have faith in ourselves. It is fasting for the poor while at thenot faith in God, or in Nature, or in same time failing to care for thatHumanity that Fromm extolls. 
friend who is entering the depths of 
The "art of loving" focuses on decadence. 
Statement of 
loving oneself. Fromm admires But we are not our own God. 
brotherly love. But the thing that is 
There is an ultimate reality outside basic, the thing with which we of ourselves. There is a God; there 
Affirmation 
must begin, he says, is love for but now .ignored. 
iiiiiiiiiiiigroundskeepers rights coalition 

We expect the University to implement, in good faith, its obli­gation under the Laws of our country and the teachings of our Church to recognize and respect the rights of its employees to be represented by the bargaining agent of their choice in an atmo­sphere free of intimidation and coercion. We will maintain our demonstration of support until we are satisfied that the University will do this. 
The following are our specific points of concern: 
*Retaliation against workers 
*Displacement of workers 
*Contracting out 
*Dilution of bargaining unit 
*University's attempt to break unionization efforts 
The Grou ndskcepers Rights Coalition was formed October 17, at a meeting held in LaFortune Center. Over 175 people attended this meeting in response to the struggle of the groundskeepers 
who were threatened by a perma­nent lay-off while trying to union­ize. The Coalition is composed of students, faculty, university work­ers, religious, community organiza­tions, and interested individuals. 
The Groundskecpers Rights Coalition plans to have a march to communicate their concems to the 
1 board of Trustee!>. The March will begin at 12:00 noon Friday, Octo­ber 21, at the steps of the Notre 
Dame Administration Building and will converge at the Center for Continuing Education. 

---~--­

From the Golden Dome to the Golden Gate 

A. Senior's Guide to San Francisco 
THE CITY 

San Francisco is Fisherman's Wharf, the Golden Gate Bridge, Alcatraz Island, North Beach, Twin Peaks, Nob Hill, Chinatown, the Marina, Golden Gate Park, St. Mary's Cathedral, the BART system, the Embaca­dero and more. San Francisco is Spanish, meaning "St. Francis," the patron saint of the city. He was born John Bernardone in 1182 at Assisi, Italy, the son of a wealthy merchant who early changed his name from John to Francisco. On April15, 1850, San Francisco was incorporated as a city, by an act of the legislature. 
CITY SONG 

"IleftMy B..nIa Sea Fnmclseo" 
The loveliness of Paris I left my heart in San Francisco Seems some-how sadly gay. 
High on a hill, it calls to me.
The glory that was Rome . To be where little cable carsIs of another day. 
Climb half-way to the stars!
I've been terribly alone The morning fog may chill the airAnd forgotten in Manhattan. 
I don't care!
I'm going home My love waits there-To my city by the bay. 
There's only one drawback---it's hard to leaue 
"That City of Gol(l to which adventurers ~.:ongregated out of all the winds of heaven. I wonder what enchantment of the 'Ara­bian Nights' can have equaled this evontion of a roaring city, in a few years of a ma1. 's life, from the marshes and the blowing sand."--ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON 
"It's an odd thing, but anyone who disappears is said to be seen in San Francisco. It must be a delightful city and possess ali the attractions of the next world." --OSCAR WILDE 
"The extreme geniality of San Fran·­cisco's economic, intellectual and political climate makes it the most varied and challenging ci~y in the United States." JAMES MKHENER 
"Fancy a novel about Chicago or Buffalo, let us say, or Nashville, Tennes­see. There are just three big cities in the United States that are 'story cities', New York, of course. New Orleans and the best 

.jij.~.
-I'\ 


of the lot, San Francisco."--FRANK NORRIS "Your city is so very beautiful, I think 
more  beautiful than Naples, but  not  so  
romantic.'' --SOPHIA LOREN  
"I  don't  like  San  Francisco,  I  love  
it!"--DOROTHY LAMOUR  

"I love San Francisco. It would be a perfect place for a honeymoon."--KIM NOVAK 
"Now there's a grown-up swinging town."--FRANK SINATRA 
"This is the last irreverent, impudent city in the country. There's more going on here in one day than goes on in Hollywood in a year. Don't let anybody kid you about Hollywood--it's still all plastic and tinsel." TOM SMOTHERS 
"One of the most beautiful cities in the world. When we came under that beautiful bridge I felt like the Queen of Sheba before Solomon. Everyone brags about San Francisco. It seems an exaggeration till 



single-End ean  Double-end e.G  
12,180 pounds  11,500 pounds  
30  34  
27 feet  30 feet 5 inches  
10 feet, 3 inches  10 feet, 3 inches  
9 miles per hour  9 miles per hour  

The Cable Cars: San Francisco's National Landmark 
"San Francisco withouf'its cable cars would be like a kid' without ~i!' yo-yo."-­Phil Baker · 
Andrew. Smith Hallidie developed his system of cable roads now in use in this city in 1873. The first trial run of his dummy was down the Clay Street Hill 'between Jones and Kearny, a distance of 2,880 feet on August 2, 1873. Later the same day, the dummy with a car attached, made another · round trip, this time with a large crowd in attendance. There were many changes and alterations made to the system before complete success crowned Mr. Hallidie's efforts, and the public received the cable car with open arms. 
In 1881 at the San Francisco Industrial Exhibition the Honorable W~-Morrow stated, " ...what a revolution it (the cable car) has made in the mode of transporting passengers in this city! The hills have fallen down before it, and they are now even more accessible, and certainly more desirable for residence than the level portions of the city." 
The cable cars were made a National Historic Landmark on October 1, 1964. 
one sees it. Now I don't doubt it any more."--PRINCESS ALICE, COUNTESS OF ATHLONE. OF ENGLAND 
"San Francisco is the greatest ... the hills . . . fabulous food . . . most beautiful and civilized people."--THE DUKE AND DUCHESS OF BEDFORD, OF ENGLAND 
"The loveliest city in the world."-­PRINCE BERTIL 
"Two days in this city is worth two months in New York." --ROBERT MENZIES PRIME MINISTER OF NEW ZEALAND 
"I like California, but best of all I am charmed by this beautiful city of San Francisco.'' --NIKITA KRUSHCHEV 
"San Francisco!--one of my two favorite cities. There is more grace per square foot in San Francisco than any place on earth!''--BISHOP FULTON SHEEN 
"I love this city. If I am elected, I'll move the White House to San Francisco. Everybody's so friendly. I went down to Fisherman's Wharf and they even let me into Alioto's. It may be Baghdad-by-the­Bay to you, but to me it's Resurrection City."--ROBERT F. KENNEDY 
"Cities, like people, have soul and that of San Francisco is beautiful."--FORMER MAYOR JOSEPH ALIOTO 
"The Athens of .the U.S."--MR. AND 
MRS. HERBERT HOOVER 
''I never dreamed I could like any city as well as London. San Francisco is exciting, moody, exhilarating. I even love the muted frogs.''--JULIE CHRISTIE 
"San Francisco is one of the great cultural plateaus of the world ... one of the really urbane communities in the United States . . . one of the truly cosmopolitan places--and for many, many years, it always has had a warm welcome for human beings from all over the world."--DUKE ELLINGTON 
"San Francisco has only one drawback. 'Tis hard to leave."--RUDYARD KIPLING 

the observer 

SIGHTSEEING BY BUS 
-GRAY LINE TOURS. This is the most popular trip and the most comprehensive tour of San Francisco with frequent stops (Bring your own cameral) that also includes a drive across the Golden Gate Bridge (3 hours). 9, 10,11 AM.,l, 2:15 and 3 PM 
"Chinatown by Night" (3 hours) trans­ports you to Chinatown for a walking tour of the area. The tour is offered with or without dinner. 
Muir Woods and Sansallto Tour. Takes about 3 hours and rivals the San Francisco tour in popularity. 9 AM. and 2 PM. daily thru November 15. 
Gray Line's Night aub Tour. This tour can be purchased with or without dinners, but is not available to minors. 
GUde Tours. Sunday tours of ethnic and alternative communities within San Fran­cisco, 1 to 4 PM from the famous Glide Memorial Church, 330 Ellis Street, San Francisco. Reservations recommended (phone: 771-6306). 
GRAY LINE'S folder detailing all intin­eraries (Uay Area,, Marine World/ Africa, U.S.A., Monterey Peninsula, Wine Coun­try, etc.) and rates are available at hotels. The Depot is located at First and Mission Streets in S.F. 
ALCATRAZ ISLAND, now a part of the Golden Gate National Recreation Area of the National Park Service. A two-and­one-half hour tour includes a round-trip boat ride by Harbor Carriers to the Island for a walking tour of the famous former Federal prison and grounds. (Walking shoes recommended.) Tours leave every 45 minutes between 9 a.m. and 3 p.m. from pier 43. Reservations accepted by phone or mail; Harbor Carriers, Inc. Pier 41, S.F. 94113 (415) 546-2805. $2 adults, $1 children ages 5-11. 
SIGHTSEEING BY AIR 
ASA HELICOPTOURS. Five helicopter tours available, from 5 minutes to 30 minutes each; breath-taking views of San Francisco and the area. Heliport at Pier 
46. Air Services Associates, Fox Plaza Suite 2524, S.F. 94102, 621-5900. Reserva­tions are necessary. Cost $8. 
A VTEC TOURS. Cessna planes used for thrilling flights around the area that take nearly an hour,· 10 a.m. to 6 p.m., or at night by arrangement. Flights leave from Oakland Airport; limousine service from 
S.F. available for moderate charge. AVTEC Building 142, Suite 115, Oakland International Airport, 526-6661. 
COMMODORE HEIJCOPTERS. Offers short scenic rides over the Bay bridges and shorelines of San Francisco and Marin 
• Counties. Pier 43 (beyond the Balclutha) at Fisherman's Wharf, 10 AM to sunset. Phone: 981-4822. 
SIGHTSEEING BY BOAT 
HARBOR TOURS. One hour tours of the San Francisco Bay on three-deck Red and White Fleet boats. Snack bar on board. Frequent daily departures, begin­ning about 10 a.m. Pier 43'11. This has been a popular attraction for college groups from Stanford, University of Cali­fornia, University of Santa Clara and others. Special group rates: groups of 15 or more can get on for $3.25. On Thursday Oct. 27, there will be a special Bar-B-Q Cruise that will tour the San Francisco Bay at dusk from 7:30 PM to 10:30 PM. Cost: $16.50 per person which includes a steak dinner (four-course meal) and dancing aboard a Red and White Fleet Boat. Make reservations on Monday, Oct. 24. For more information about the Bar-B-Q Cruise, contact Nancy Boyle, Fisherman's Wharf at 546-2810 or 546-2826. 
SIGHTSEEING BY ESCORTED WALK-: lNG TOURS--Reservations necessary 
STYBING ARBORETUM IN GOLDEN GATE PARK. Free guided tours of these vast gardens daily. Seasonal changes make the arboretum interesting any time of the year. Tours assemble at the kiosk inside the main gate, adjoining the Hall of Flowers, 9th Avenue and Lincoln Way entrance. Telephone 661-9077 for schedule in October. Reservations are not neces­sary. 
CHINESE HERITAGE WALK. Satur­days, 2 p.m. from the Chinese Culture Center 750 Kearney Street (3rd floor Holiday Inn), 986-1822. Tours emphasize cultural achievements of the Chinese community. 
DING HOW TOURS. Also offers an insight into Chinatown seldom seen by the visitor who doesn't venture off of Grant Av~nue.j Tour is available with or without dinner. ·. · Telephone·: 981-8399.· llS 
-., 

Waverly Place, S.F. 94108. 
JJ WALKING TOURS. Well-Planned, 
informative walking tours emphasizing 
historical aspects of the district--Union '<:. 
Street, Japatown, Chinatown, North Beach \ 
and Jackson Square. Arrangement usually 
can be made to include luncheon. 
Chinatown by Night can be purchased with 
or without dinner. 1845 Pacific Avenue. 
94109. Phone: 441-8270. 
STREETWALKERS TOUR OF SAN 
FRANCISCO. Tours, five to six hours 
long, combine walking with cable car rides This restaurant guide is arranged to help 
and other transportation to see "the best of you make that difficult decision, "Where 
San Francisco." Chinese luncheon and shall we eat?" And it is difficult in San 
refreshments included. Tours leave from Francisco where more than 2,600 restaur-
Canterbury Hotel, 750 Sutter Street. For ants offer visitors a 'round the world' ticket 
more information call 771-3277. to dining pleasure. It's only fitting that a 
TOURING ON YOUR OWN cosmopolis known as the "Paris of the 
CABLE CARS. No visitor wants to go West," "Gateway to the Orient" and 
"B hd db th B " h td h ld
home until he has one of these memorable ag a -y-e-ay s ou up o a 
ridesl There are three lines, why not ride tradition for fine foods of infinite variety,
them alii Fare: 25 cents. This is an "eating city". Good restaurants 
· h h d · 
PoweU-Hyde starts at the turntable at flouns ere an great ones e,xcite civic 
Powell and Market, climbs Nob Hill, turns pride. International influences have been 
west at Jackson to Hyde and plunges down at work in the city's kitchen since the Gold 
the Hyde Street Hill to Victorian Park, just Rush days. 
· · 11 · 1
short of the Bay, where another turntable Among the umque or reg10na y typ1ca 
puts the car in position for the return foods to be found on the menu are abalone, 
climb. or a large snail; Dungeness crabs; sand 
PoweU-Mason is the most direct line to dabs, a flatfish; Bay shrimp; crusty 
Fisherman's Wharf leaving the Market sourdough French bread; cioopino, a 
Street turntable, climbing Nob Hill and seafood stew of local Italian origin; Green 
clanging thru North Beach to its Bay Street Goddess salad; Hangtown Fry, a hearty 
terminal--just two blocks from the Wharf. oyster omelet; artichoke dishes; and excel· 
California Street follows a straight line lent cheeses. Of course no meal would be 
from the foot of California at Market to Van complete without a glass of California 
Ness but in those 16 blocks the cars travel wine. 
in the shadowns of the Financial District The prices shown pertains to diner$ only 
buildings, cross Chinatown and climb and a Ia carte selections are usually 
fashionable Nob Hill. available even in those restaurants serving 
MUNICIPAL RAILWAY. The "Muni"; "family style" dinners. For yoq.r conven­
street cars, cable cars, trolley buses and ience, it is advisable to mllole dinner 
motor coaches provide transportation to reservations whenever possible: 
every visitor attraction in the city for a 25-RESTAURANTS BY CUISINE 
cent fare (exact change is necessary) and AMERICAN 
no charge for transfers. On Sundays and Buena VIsta, 2765 Hyde St., 474-5044; 9 
holidays a SO-cent pass, sold on cable cars, a.m.-9:30PM for food setvice, until 2 ~M 
lets you ride on any Muni vehicle all day for cocktails. Daily bt·Unch. Moderate 
without paying an additional fare. Pick up prices. A great gathering place ·that 
a copy of the San Francisco "Walk-Ride became a legend afttr introducing; Irish 
Guide" at the S.F. Visitor Information Coffee from Irelancf 20 years a~; All 
Center or look in the telephone book at the drinks are excellent imd generou!!~ A must 
beginning of the yellow pages for a is the Ramos fizz and of cQtirse Irish 
complete map and routing information. Coffee. Busiest during rnealti~e. · 
Telephone 673-MUNI if necessary. Grlson's Steak House, Van Ness at 
BART[Bay Area Rapid Transit]. A Pacific, 673-1~8; Dinner ~.'i'M·l0:30 PM 
billion dollar system with 75 miles of track ($7.50-$13.7~). Dinner in this handsome 
connects San Francisco with the cities and restaurant )Jas become a ttadition since its 
towns across the Bay in Alameda and fouding in,l935. Its El Ghnquistidor Room 
Contra Costa counties. Minimum fare for a features. the finest se~c:tions in Spanish 
ride on the most modern transit system in and M__!lf_xican foods__._/ln • addition i to 
.the..•··

A · ' b ' · 
the world is 25 cents. Monday thru Friday, mer1.¢an menu; Sp,acious .ar. V~~es.! 
6 AM. to midnight. No Saturday service. Garage parking: . . " , "· · I 
One dollar excursion ticket available ~alliver's,, 508 Sutter' atPt)well, 398~ 
during specified hours. Downtown stations SOJa; . Bre~s~. lun¢h, ~liner 6:30 am 
are located on Market Street at Davis, ~I 10 pm (qom $2l9$1 Delicious fAe · 
Montgomery, Powell and at Civic Center A5r ,the traveler. Qibe heartily ~d,, n 
(7th and 8th Streets). For information, board the Powell Street cable . ·· · •;Beer 
telephone 788-BART. 'an<1 wine # 'i"v~d.. I ;r .. 
49 MILE SCENIC DRIVE. A must for -······· i lfappe~,. . dy~s. ;Hyatt P4ill: n Square, 
those travelling in their own cars. This is a' ~98-l~t' Lunche~n Jj: 2:30 PM 
well-planned do-it-yourself tour to do iii' , Go4ktaUs until 8 PM tail hour enter-
your own car. Watch for the sea gull signs· • ,tatnment. A cozy .U pub on the Plaza 
and directional arrows or pick up am~ of,/, 'that. Serves a ve,:y·satisfying and reason-
the drive from the S.F. Visitor Inform.ltic;m" a ,. lun · andwiches, salads, and 
Center, Hallidie Plaza, Powell and ~3,rtet at ert are the order of the day. 
Streets. ·D 0. East, Holiday Inn-Union 
FERRY SERVICE TO MARIN COUNTY. . , 928-0900; 24 hours daily; ($3.85­
Golden Gate Ferries leave:from Pier 1 (; World's finest French Toast, Eggs 
north of the Ferry Buildipg; foot of Market . . edict, Giant Belgian Waffles, "Hang-
Street for two Marin County destinatiollfJ: over Omelette" (green chiles and cheese). 
Sausalito and Lal:kspur. On weekends, the Other specialties Papaya stuffed with 
first trips depart at 9:30a.m., (10:20-:-f4ut•; ., chicken salad, the Baked Idaho Potato 
spur) earlier 9Jl weekdays. Fare:. 75 cept$; L,Burger or the Ranchero Burger. A 
to Sausalito, Sl to Larksput.:: Phone;' Jgoldmine for late night munchies. 
922-8833. . . -CHINESE 
Tiburon Ferry leave$ from.. Pier 43. Empress of China, 838 Grant Ave, 
Fisb~rman's Wharf, on "\t(~eltends and 434-13~5. I.unch, dinner untilll pm. (from holidays, providing setvice to Tiburon and ,.,.~·S6'.9S). thi:s*magpificent roof garden is the fo Angel Island State Park,· a'b ideal place only high~rj,se Chiriesc restaurant in ,.-\mer­for picnics and hiking. $3:' round trip to lea. Distirlctive cuisine of aii•China is Tiburon; $3.25 to Angel ~land. Telephone served in an elegant atmosphere 9fa. .IJN,t 546-2815 for sch~ule. , """"'"'·~ . , ""~' p~lace amidst ~~ntal. spl~ndor With cit)'
Muir Woods Natlonj( Monument m v1ews. Specialties 1nclude Barbecued Marin County in Marin Coutty is magnifi· Young Quail; Peking Duck, Spicy Szechautl cent grove oftedwood trees now served by Beef, Hunan Pepery Pork, Hundred Bios-scheduled weekend buss~. Take the ferry som Lamb. . .· to Larkspur and transfet to the Golden The Hong Kong, at Church & Market Gate Transit bus. Saturdays, Sunday and Sts. Great spot for lunch for a bunch. holidays thru December. Telephone $2.00-$3.00 will fill you. Specialty is the 332-6600 for schedules and possible exten-Won Ton Soup. sions. Four Seas Restaurant, 731 Grant Ave, , 397-5577. Lunch and Dinner daily noon-
Golden Gate National Recreation Area 12 pm. Weekends 5 pm. til12. A dazling [GGNRA] and Point Reyes National Sea-Oriental showplace in Chinatown. It is shore are federally protected co~tal lands noted for a rare collection of hand-carved open to the public. 100,000 acres of ivorv'~tatues imported from the Orient. beaches meadows, forests, cliffs and SEAFOOD historic sites. For information on facilities, Big Cherry's Fish Factory, 252 California special events, conducted walks and public St., 391-7757, 11:30 AM-9 PM. Gosed transportation to and within the area, Sundays. (from $3.69). · A casual contact GGNRA, Fort Mason, S.F. 94123, atmosphere for a light and varied seafood PhoQCt '556-2920. meal. .'· •,· · · ' · · 
WHERE TO EAT
'-· 
'· 

'"---~---·-..,_________ 
N. AUoto's Captain's Cabin, 155 Jeffer­
son St., Fisherman's Wharf, 776-7300. Noon tilll pm. (Dinner from $3.85) An attractive patio, marine artifacts and tropical fish all enhance the appeal of this restaurant long noted for fine seafood. Dinner specialties include: Montc:rey aha-lone dore; steak and lobster combos; Crab cioppino; Oysters Rockefellar. Weekday specials. INTERNATIONAL 
White Elephant, (English), 480 Sutter near Powell, 398-1331. Luncheon 11:30
··"'am-2:30 pm. Dinner, 5:30-10:30 ($5.95­
$9. 75). A cozy and elegant English Pub 
and continental restaurant near Union Square serving gourmet fare from 18th century British ports of call: Lamb Curry, Beef Wellington, Duckling Grand Marnier, 
teas and coffees from around the world and premium liquors at regular prices. (Ask for a scotch and they'll pour you a Chivas.) Old Brittany, (French) 2801 Leavenworth tile Cannery, 776-6969. Open Wed. Through Mon. noon to 9 PM Fri. and Sat. . until 11 pm; ($6.95-$9.25). The distinctive t· milieu of Brittany is evoked at this French · restaurant by the Breton dress worn by the staff an4 the many typical antiques from the regioq•. Onion soup is famed far and Wide ·• and ther are no fewer than 101 varieties of crepes. Chocolate Mousse and Bula are specialties. Nero's (Italian),·112 Geary St, 673-3903. J~nch from noon .til 4 PM on weekdays; QinnerfromS-11:30 !'Mon weekdays, until 1 AM Qn l'J;idays and Saturdays, ($3.75­$8.ZS). The unique atmosphere of this ':'hideaway:• restaurant is the perfect $et!Sng for the 16 varieties of pizza served. The· kitchen features veal, chicken and st~k dishes as well as traditional pastas and £a&Serole dishes. Modesto Lazone's, (Italian 900N.'Point,171-4880; Lunch and Dinner utltil 11 pm.~7.50-$9-00), Indescribable by a San rancisco gourmet. · r 1'amato, ,(Japanese), 717 Calif()fltia St., 391:-3456, I;upch 11:45-2:00 PM. Dinners, $-~0 J'M Closedltondays ~5.50-$15.00). ~n .untisual diuing . experience where libttono-clad waitresses prepare food with · ·delicate artistry at the low tables of Tatami rooms (iU ¢Ushions and floor wells),
on hiba ·· · 
.-.-.. _ .....

..._-~ ·v·•-'• (Polynesl·an) 20 Cosmo Pl., 
~.-~ 

776"2232. Lunch daily except weekends. :l)iunei'until ntidajght (a Ia carte). H you · loq:'t ,,e·a:t\hete, the drinks and pu pu 
_PI_.*eir~_:_.•.~~.B~FBRAUS, D-ESSE--RTS-­
1AHD 


BratskeUar, 900 Northpoint St., Ghiar­delli Sq., 673-7939. Popular Ghiardelli Square Restaurant overlooking Alcatraz and the Bay offers deep dish Chicago style Pizza, and a lavish soup and salad bar. It also has a lively bar and glass-enclosed terrace. 
Sears Fine Food, 439 Powell St, 986-1160 Open daily from 7 AM til 3 PM. A popular glorifaction of the pancake. A diminutive oasis for breakfast and lunch serving 18 varieties of Swedish pancakes. Specializ­ing in fresh fruit for breakfast and fresh vegetables for lunch. 
Salmagundi, No.2 Embarcadero Center, 9&2-5603. 11 am-8:30 pm. This interna­tional gourmet soup and quiche restaurant with a stunning bar serves a complimen­tary cheese board to tempt cocktailers from 5 until 8:30 pm. The self-service cafe serves tossed green salad, a selection of three gourmet soups, quiche, roll and butter for just $3.60. Fruit, cheeses, and homemade desserts top it all off. Beer and wine are available. 
Wine & Cheese Centers, 2111 Union St., 563-3606. 10 am to 5:30pm. Wine-tasting, cheese platters, quiche, soups, salads (a Ia carte). 
Zlms Restaurants, all over the city, 24 hours, Hamburgers, breakfast, super sup­pers at all hours. 
The Dessert Company of San FranciKO, 2801 Leavenworth St. (The Cannery) 11 am til 11 pm. Wide selection of fine desserts, frozen confections. 
VVednesday, Ckiober19, 1977 
/ 9
the observer 
Things to do in Frisco 
THEATRE SAN FRANCISCO SYMPHONY AS-NEARBY ATI'RACTIONS information call 221-5100. Uf!C UGHT OPERAL PRODUCTIONS, SOCIATION SPECIAL EVENTS Morrison Planetarium, $1.50 adults, SO CURllAN THEATRE October 28--Rotterdam Phiharmonic 0-Marine World/Africa U.S.A., Redwood cents for children. Thru November, a light "'_, 
"The Wiz," a musical stage version of rchestra, Edo De Waart conducting Ma-City, 591-7676; 23 miles south of San show will be presented entitled,,_ '~It's-"'" "The Wonderful Wizard of Oz," playing sonic Auditorium, 8:30p.m. Francisco v}a lligk~ay 101 to the Ralston About Time." Also t4tu December 31, thru November 26. Starring Renee Harris San Francisco Chamber Music Society exit. ,Qpeh 9 AM to dttsk Wednesday tbru Ban!! gfJ,be,World;-on~nal watercolors by as Dorothy, Ben Harney, Ken Pcymus and 3333 California S~eet, 8:.30 p.m: ,,/,.,,...-~ Su~day and school holidays: ''N6vember J. Fenwick Lansdowne for the book of the Charles Valentino. Playing at the -etii.Tan"~-, . October 24,--Schubertiade, dir~··· by and December--Saturdays, Sundays and same name. Theatre, 445 Geary SY;eet; S.F. 94102, Na~an Rubm. ·"·'"" """,. school holidays. 673'::4iJOO: Tuesday"Safurday at 8:30 p.m. --~-"''~~'"'""~--:::: · Alii''' Marriott's Great America, Santa Clara, SAN FRANCISCO ZOO Sunday at 7 p.m. Wednesday and Saturday ''•,, (408) 988-1800; 45 miles south of San Located on Zoo Road and Skyline matinees at 2:30p.m. CAUFORNIA PALACE OF·-TilE LEGION Francisco via Highway ,,lOl-.-=to· ·Great-, ,Boulev~rd, 661-~~· Open 10 AM to 5:30 ~CAN CONSERVATORY THEATRE OF HONOR ·--,, ,,,__... America Parkway·, ~,atufdays and Sundays PM,~ady; Adm1ss1on: $1 adults. 
~/#[A~~,~~~~!~~~d~Ythe leading re;:::~dinf~~~:~:1!u!:~~; 7~~~5~~~; 10~:~vm~~ Amusement Park, 4885 EXPLORAtORIUM repertory company in the nation and San 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. daily; closed Thanksgiv-Mortferey Road, San Jose (one mile south At the Pata'lie;,of PintFArts,,P601 Lyon Francisco audiences thoroughly agree by ing and Christmas. Admission paid when . of Capitol Expressway), (408) 225-1500. Street), 563-7337:'-,"'Contains ov~·-400 _ 
their enthusiasitc supp.Ort~. Of the nine entering de Young Museum. Saturdays, Sundays and holidays from 10 participatory exhibits·=.,,,.=·:r-eJating to art, ''=--·=·.·. productions announced for' the .1977-78 October 22-January ~8--The Triumph of AM; closed Christmas. science and technology. Nt:rw,,pn display season, four will be in the repertotybytJ1:_ Humanism, a major exhibition organized Winchester Mystery House, 525 So. are two new exhibits: Quiet Llghiidag uses en~ of ~he year. , . . ~ ··bY-!!1.~ Fine Arts Museum illustrating the Winchester Road, San Jose (at 1-280), (408) high voltage to produce a violent lightning 
Juhus Caesar, William Shakespeare, changefron;ta God-centered to a man-cen-247-2000. One hour tours of the area's story in a glass sphere. A.M. Lightning,'',.,._,"' opens October 15. tered world. ~,_exhibit consists of 250 most bizarre mansion daily from 9 A.Mv· ,p,J..B,B. ·is/a' 'SCulptured· fiberglass and , -~ 
"The Master Builder," by Hen  treasured objects the Renaissance,  separate tours of the garcl~n al'!i(tOffered  
enters the repertory Oct. 18. Cal  1450 to 1600.  daily. .. ,­,,,-~­·  
ticket office (771-3880) for sche(  :i\SJAN ART MU •-,;,, 'fB:E AVERY  Boa:dngo•eanlp and Big Trees Narrow  
September 24-0ctober .. 30-­'' '  AGE CO ON  Ga,pg~ Railroad, 80 miles south of San  
Sullivan's "The Sorcerer,"a  b r-D r--IndianGallerles-­ .,Francisco in the Santa Cruz Mountains,  
production at the Presenta 2350 Turk Blvd. at Masonk:;  or the first time/' et. Also exhibits inw  ·P.O. Box 338, Felton, California (408) 335-4484. Excursion rides on an historic  
Saturdays at 8:30 p.m.; S~ndai  e;;~sian Art Museum is  steam train Monday-Friday at noon.  
2:30, on October 23. Mail!  ale Park, adjoining the  Saturday, Sunday and holiday: 11 AM to 4  
Lamplighters, 68 Julial}•' Ave 752-7755. i' ·  m, phone't 558-2993. 10 a.m. ·. p.m. dil.ily.  PM. Old Faithful Geyser of California, 1299  
THEATRE--LONG R~S (Tic tre box offices and an' major  .H. DE YOUNGM.f;MORIALM,USEUM Located in Golden Park also,.,,$58-2887  Tubbs Lane, Calistoga, California (707) 942-663, 75 miles north of San Francisco in  
"Beach Blanket .Babyl  for information. 10 a.m. to 5 p.ni>,paily.  the Santa Cruz Mountains. Geyser erupts  
as." Reservation$ are  Admission: 75 cents (18 to 65 years old), all  approximately ever,y 40 minutes 8 AM to  
original musical~yuellqw 1  others free. One fee admits you to the  dusk every day of the year.  
If you see it ~yo  Legion of Honor, Asian Art and de Young _  "Skunk" Train [California Western Rail- 
come back.and. see  museums on the same day. _.,,_".'"''J  road], P.O. Box 907, Ft. Bragg, (707)  
"" ,, dol qplt•'Fug ·  Through October 31--Photo~s"' of  964-6371. A 40-mile Standard Gauge  
421.4222.  Asmat of S.W..New·GUliiea. Also  railroad running thru the redwoods  
~""'''81 ,, nd Saturday 8:3  Scrintshaw; American and Eskimo ex- between Ft. Bragg and Willits, 166 miles  
Sunday;at :30.  amples.  north of San Francisco. Reservations  
· .I'Bufishot Crmmond," a take-off on the  SAN FRANCISCO MUSEUM OF MO- advisable. S.F. information number:  
Btftish detective Bulldog Drummond, also  DERN ART  421-9359.  
.~···· -in its third year at the Hippodrome Cabaret  War Memorial Veterans Building, Van  SPECIAL EVENTS  
... Theatre, 435 Broadway, 94133, 982-2343.  Ness and McAllister Street, 863-8800.  
Tuesday-Friday at 8:30, Saturday 8 and  Tuesday-Friday 10 a.m. to 10 p.m.,  October 22-24--San Francisco Interna­ 
10:30, Sunday at 7:30. Dinner service  Saturday and Sunday 10 a.m. to 5 p.m;  tional Gourmet and Wine Exhibition, an  
begins at 6 p.m. "Evolution of the Blues," an excursion through the history of American jazz, created by Jon Hendricks, is now in its fourth year, establishing a record for San Francisco theatre. On Broadway Theatre,  closed Monday and major holidays. Museum Cafe open Tuesday thru Satur­day, 10-4. No charge to visit . the permanent collection galleries; $1 to view the temporary exhibitions. October 23--Wesley Chamberlin: Prints  opportunity to try many food and ethnic specialties prepared by local restaurants, watch cooking demonstrations and exa­mine the latest in gourmet cookware. Additional admission for the wine tasting. Civic Auditorium, 10 AM to 9 PM, closes at  
435 Broadway, 94113, 398-0800. Tuesday- Thru October 30--Serge Llfar Collection  8 PM on Mondav.  
Saturday 8:30, Sunday, 7:30. "The Great American Backstage Musl­cal" is an original musical that romps  of Ballet Set and Costume Designs. Two large travelling shows concerned with ballet from 1910 to 1930.  October 28-Harvest Festival and Country Crafts Market. Nearly 200 booths offer a wide variety of crafts. For entertainment  
through the age-old tale of overnight stardom and unrequited love. Montgo­mery Playhouse, 622 Broadway, 788-8282. Tuesday-Friday at 8:30, Saturday at 8 and 10:30, Sunday at 3 and 7:30.  SPORTS •  there is blue grass music, old-fashioned melodrama, jugglers and musicians. Brooks Hall, Civic Center. Friday, noon to 10 PM; Saturday 10 AM to 10 PM; Sunday 10 AM to 8 PM.  
Jules Felffer's "Hold Me!" is based on  CALIFORNIA ACADEMY OF SCmNCES  
Peiffer's syndicated cartoons and has  Located in Golden Gate Park, for  
enjoyed as much success in San Francisco  
as it has in New York. Little Fox Theatre,  
533 Pacific Avenue, 94113, 398-2707,  
Tuesday-Thursday at 8:30, Friday and  
Saturday at 7 and 10, Sunday at 7:30.  
"A Marvelous Party," Barry Koron's  
revue with music by Gershwin, Porter and  
Kern and portrayals of Helen Morgan,  
George Gershwin, Fred and Adele Astaire,  H you get the taste for sports during your  
Ethel Merman, Ginger Rogers. Wednes­ stay at San Francisco, there will be plenty  
day-Sunday at 8:30. Saboy-Tivoli, 1438  of sports action going on next week.  
Grant Avenue, 297-7779. San Francisco  SAN FRANCISCO 49ERS FOOTBALL  
Mime Troupe, 2 p.m. (Call 285-1717 for other locations). No charge for admission.  Candlestick Park, 1 PM Ticket office: Candlestick Park, 94124,  
468-2249  
MUSIC  Games: October 23--Detroit Lions  
SAN FRANCISCO OPERA SEASON, SEP- October 30--Tampa Bay Buccaneers  
TEMBER 9-NOVEMBER 27  COLLEGE FOOTBALL  
Kurt Herbert Adler, general director,has engaged a stellar group of internation- University of California, Berkeley, 1 p.m.  
al singers and artists to present the 55th  Tickets: Athletic Office, 61 Harmon  
annual season opening with Renata Scotto singing the title role in "Adeiana Lecouv- Gym, U.C. Berkeley 94720, 642-5150 Games: October 29--USC  
reur." Opera performances are Tuesday,  BASKETBALL  
Wednesday, Friday and Saturday nights.  Golden State Warriors professional  
Sundays at 2 p.m. and four Saturday  season, Oakland Coliseum Arena. Season  
afternoons at 1:30 (there are some excep­ begins October 19. Schedules and tickets  
tions).  available form Golden State Warriors,  
The season is heavily subscribed, and  Oakland Coliseum,Oakland, Calif., 94261,  
some performances are sold out. As a last  638-6000.  
resort, standing room tickets go on sale two  Games: Buffalo Braves, 8 PM, October  
hours before the performance. Complete  28  
schedules available on request. All  SOCCER  
performances in the Opera House:  Northern California Super Soccer League  
"Das Rhelgold," Wagner--October  consists of 18 teams from 12 schedule calls  
"Faust," Gounod--October 26, 1:30  ·for two league games every Sunday. At 10  
p.m.  AM there is a preliminary game between  
"Aida," Verdi--October  first division teams of the San Francisco  
"Tunmdot," Puccini--October 29  League. Balboa Stadium, San Jose and  
For tickets, contact Opera Box Office,  Ocean Avenues. No reservations neces­ 
OperllJ!ouse, 94102, (415) 431-1210.  sarv.  
GRACE CATHEDRAL  HORSE RACING  

wood radio wave containing blue !ightning in a glass tube, a project that took two years to construct. Wednesday-Sunday 1 to 5 PM, Wednesday evening 7 to 9:30 PM. 
Donation requested. 

A Word About Tickets 
Many theatres and 'special events desig­nate a box office for tickets and reserva­tions made in advance.. Some of these are commercial box offices handling tickets for many events; the charge for this service is added to the price of the ticket. 
--Cow Palace, P.O. Box 34206, S.F. 94134, 334-4852. --Symphony Box Office, Opera House, S.F. 94102, 431-5400. --Opera Box Office, Opera House, S.F. 94102, 431-1210. 
--Fine Arts Box Office, Sherman Clay and Co., 141 Kearny St., S.F. 94108, 421-1000. 
--BASS (Bay Area Seating Service), located in Liberty House, lower level, Stockton and O'Farrell Streets, S.F. 94108, 772-2127. 
--Downtown Center Box Office, 325 Mason Street, S.F. 94102, 775-2021. 
--Macy's Box Office, Stockton and O'Farrell Sts., 397-3333; mailing address: P.O. Box 7888, S.F. 94119. 
--Emporium Ticket Service, 835 Market ST., S.F. 94103, 982-1111. 
--Ticketron, Roos/ Atkins, Market at STockton St. (Walk-ins only) Phone Charge: U-CHARGE accepts all maior credit cards. The S.F. number is (415) -824-2743. 
--Roger Williams Grouprates, c/o Jean Hauck, 2038 Lincoln STreet, Berkeley, 94709, 776-7614; arranges group rates and reservations for many theatre events, excludingtheCivic Light Opera and ACT. 
October 30--0rgan recital by Roger Thoroughbred Racing, Bay Meadows, One of San Francisco's many alleys, Castle Street, provides a glimpse of Coit Tower, Fi£het:.~. ,~hester Cathedral,. England. ·, · . ·,-, · San ~ateo, l'u~~day-S~t.urday, 1 PM which stands atop celebrated Telegraph Hill. 




Public 

Transportation 
to 

Surrounding Areas 
.. 
For a daily report on special events and activities, dial 391-2000; for information. For comprehen-' sive lists of restaurants, and sight­seeing tours, contact the S.F.1 Visitor Information Center, 1390' Market Street, S.F. Phone (415) 626-5500. 
-· 
I 
0 0 
0' 

BAY AREA RAPID TRANSIT [BART]. Once again, BART can take you to Alameda and Contra Costa counties across the Bay Bridge. You can buy a $1 excursion ticket, ride anywhere throughout the 75-mile system (the Concord line is the most scenic) but you must return to your starting point. Warning: do not go through the computerized exits at any stop; this nullifies your excursion ticket. 
A/C Transit. First and Mission Streets Terminal, 653-3535. Operates local bus service to Easy Bay cities via the Bay Bridge. 
Airport Bus Terminal. Taylor and O'Farrell Streets, 673-2434. A 24-hour 
Senior Trip Highlights 
*All week, "The Sorcerer," "Julius Caesar," and "The Master Builder" at the American Conservatory Theatre. 
• All week, "The Wiz," playing at the Curran Theatre and "The Beach Blanket · Babylon Goes Bananas," playing at the Club Fugazi (see theatre) 
*Sunday, October 23, NFL Football: San Francisco 49ers vs. Detroit Lions, Candle­stick Park, 1 PM. 
*Monday, October 24, San Francisco Alumni Party for Notre Dame seniors at Harrington's, 245 Front Street, 5 PM. Cash bar. For more information, contact Tom 0 1Neill, senior trip manager at the Jack Tar Hotel. 
*Tuesday, October 25, Picnic·for Notre Dame students at Golden Gate Park,, 12 motor coach service to and from S.F. International Airport; every 15 minutes from 6:00AM to 10:00 PM, less frequently at other hours. Fare: $1.40 each wav. • 
Golden Gate Transit. 332-6600, operates local bus service into Marin County via the Golden Gate Bridge. No central San Francisco terminal, but one principal stop is 7th Street North, at Market Street. Buses also stop on Van Ness Avenue at Post, Sutter, Clay and Union Streets as well as at Lombard and Fillmore Streets. 
GOlden Gate Ferries. These boats sail to ~ausalito and to Larkspur from Pier One .Just north of the Ferry Building, foot of 
noon. For more details and information, contact Tom O'Neill, senior trip manager. 
*Wednesday, October 26, Anhauser Busch Beer Refinery Tour for Notre Dame seniors. Times to be announced at the Jack Tar Hotel. 
*Thursday, October 27, Bar-B-Q Cruise aboard the Red and White Fleet. Boat cruises the bay from 7:30 to 10:30 p.m. Cost: $16.50 which includes a steak dinner and dancing. Cash bar offers drinks. Reservations must be made by Monday, October 24 by contacting Nancy Boyle at 546-2826 or 546-2810. 
*Friday, October 28, NBA Basketball. The Golden State Warriors vs. the Buffalo Braves at the Oakland Colliseum Arena. For tickets, cafl 638-600. 
Market Street. Telephone 982-8833 for information and schedules. 
Greyhound Bus Unes. 433-1500, 7th and Mission Sreets, interurban and long dis­tance service. 
SamsTrans buses provide service from San Francisco to the surburban communi­ties of San Mateo County, south of the city. 
Telephone 871-2200 for information. 
Southern Pacific Transportation Company 
981-470 (weekdays), 362-1212 (all other times), 4th and Townsend Streets; train service, principally for commuters, to the Peninsula towns south of San Francisco terminating at San Jose . 
Senior Trip Guide 
Produced by: Patrick Cole, Special , Projects Editor Restaurant Guide: by Maureen Eyres Art Work: Maureen Sajbel Typist: Karen Chiames Layout Staff: Bob Brink, Katie Kerwin, Drew Bauer and Pat Cole. Pictures, information and map provided by the San Francisco Visitors Information Center. 
Special thanks to Maureen Flynn, Greg Riehle, Tom O'Neill and' Mr. and Mrs. Sylvester Cole. 
--------------------------------------------------·------------.-~.-------.---~~--~--~-------­
lI 
l 
l j 
l 
I 
l 

Schlesinger advised to sell his stock 
WASHINGTON [AP[-A Senate will reconcile House and Senate committee told Energy Secretary differences on the energy legisla­James R. Schlesinger yesterday to tion. sell more than $33,000 worth of Carter's meeting with Ashley stock he and his wife hold in an was one of several sessions he has energy-related company. The been holding with key members of panel said the holding pose a Congress on the energy legislation possible conflict of interest. as the conference committee 
The committee action came as a begins its work. House-Senate conference commit­He also scheduled meeting for tee began work on a compromise Tuesday with Sens. Abraham Ribi­energy bill and as President Carter coff (D-Conn.), and Lloyd Bentsen declared that the reputations of (D-Texas). On Monday night, he both Congress and of his first year met for an hour with Sen. Russell domestic program hinge on the Long (D-La.), chairman of the energy bill to come. Senate Finance Committee. 
The energy committee gave It was Long's panel that approv­Schlesinger nine months to dispose ed billions of dollars in energy tax of 2,100 shares of stock in the incentives for the oil industry but Newhall Land and Farming Co. The rejected every energy tax proposed stock is worth about $33,600. by the President. The rejected 
The unanimous committee vote proposals called for taxes on crude followed Schlesinger's own disclo­oil, on industries and utilities that sure to the panel that "there are . use natural gas and on cars that get some 90 producing wells, mostly poor gasoline mileage. natural gas" on the 150,000 acres Both Long and administration owned by the company. officials hope some of these taxes 
Carter, in an Oval Office meeting can be revived by the conference with Rep. Thomas L. Ashley committee. (D-Ohio) predicted that Congress eventually will enact the bulk of his energy program, despite numerous major setbacks in the Senate. 
Dancin' Irish disco right into red tape 
"I think what we do on energy will determine the success or by Mike Kenahan Benesh also based his decision gave us the impression that he was Irish that they agreed not to play at failure of the year of congressional on the fact that the Dancin' Irish afraid to tell us no and kept telling any football games if they were work, I think, in the minds of the "We're getting a super run­are not official representatives of us to talk to all these other people. allowed to initially organize as a American people," Carter told around from this administration," the University. He said, "the It was as if he were pushing off the club. "They weren't going to let us Ashley. exclaimed Dancin' Irish co-captain organizations which do appear in re~>ponsibility of tellingus no onto organize as a club unless we said "I think it's legitimate to Valerie Stefani in regard to the the stadium, outside ofthe football somebody else." that we were just going to perform measure the success of Congress decision by the University not to let team, are the Notre Dame band, Stefani recalled, however, that, for basketball,'' Stefani noted. She and my own administration, at the Dancin' Irish perform at home the Notre Dame cheerleaders, and "Mr. O'Brien said the band has no emphasized, however, that, "there least in domestic affairs, on what football games. On Oct. 10, Bro. on some occasions the Notre Dame right to refuse us to get down on was never any formal signed happens to energy," Carter added. John Benesh, Dir. of Student glee club. These are official the field. They do not control who agreement." Ashley predicted the final bill Activities, informed Astrid representatives,'' continued actually stands down on the field. Stefani also stated that, "Mr. will be one that Carter "can take Hostvedt, Dancin' Irish advisor, Benesh, "of Notre Dame Univer-Stohrer and Stefani then O'Brien claims he has a letter from some pride in and we can as well." that the 16 Notre Dame women sity and are also funded by the received permission to go down on Astrid Hotvedt saying that we 
The Ohio Democrat is co-chairman dancers would not be allowed on University. The Dancin' Irish is an the field from Joe O'Brien, asst. would never ask for football. Now of the conference committee that the football field for any home independent group and organiza-dir. and business mgr. of athletics. Astrid has no copy of this letter, games. tion." The two co-captains also acquired and Mr. O'Brien has yet to produce 
Benesh based his decision on the Sandy Stohrer, Dancin' Irish the support of the cheerleaders. this letter for us."
Last shuttle h,.lif!f, "that it would be setting a co-captain, stated that, "we didn't Stefani said that, "they were "On top ofthis," Stohrer added, :edent to allow a club or understand that at all. As far as great. They are really fighting for "we never heard about this agree-runs on Sunday ~anization to appear in the we're concerned, everybody in the us. They said they would be more ment until we had to go talk with The ND-SMC bus shuttle football stadium during a Notre school is an official school repre-than glad to sit down and let us get O'Brien. We had talked to Astrid 
announced that the last bus to run Dame home game." sentative.'' up and dance. So, we had gotten about the whole deal first. She was before Oct. break will be on Sunday Stefani disagreed with this Benesh defined a "University over the problem of music, the all for us going into football." at 2:45 a.m. After break services reasoning: -"Now what other club representative" as, "a group the cheerleaders, time and space." The Dancin' Irish co-captainswill resume on Monday, Oct. 31. would get down on the field and University chooses to represent it The co-captains explained that the agreed, however, that all of this 
perform. I mean what are they in many public ways, and the Dancin' Irish would supposedly was made academic by Benesh's going to do? Is the Mechanical University backs this up with perform to any music the band decision.
An Tostal Engineer's Club going to make funding." Benesh, however, could played, right where the cheerlead-Stefani recalled that, "We went dishwashers down on the field? not explain the procedure for ers usually stand, for one _minute to see Bro. Benesh and his firstmeeting tonite Why would we wear our uniforms: becoming a University representa-and 30 seconds between the third words were something to the effect 
There will be an An Tostal 'Irish'; and be called the 'Dancin' tive. He admitted that, "the glee and fourth quarters. that, 'I see no problem with youmeeting at 6:30 tonight on the first 
Irish'? I don't understand. I do not club, the band, and the cheerlead-According to Stefani, after this being out there on the field."' floor of LaFortune. All those think any other organization would ers were in existence as University was settled, O'Brien referred to a Benesh denied this. "I certainly
interested please attend. 
begrudge us to be down there." representatives before I came, and 1975 agreement with the Dancin' [Continued on page 13] 
how they got that way I really don't ,_--------------•-.. kn~~·~ancin' Irish' first started toll 
l 

seek permission to perform atSir Victor's football games from Bob O'Brien, ~ELl f.i 1 .
ND Band Director, at the beginning. of the school year. I Stohm oxp!IDned that, "O'Brien~ • ~
Discount Liquor 



413 Hickory Rd. S. Bend 
Beer Specials 
BUSCH 5.99 case
QUARTS: 

STROH'S 6.25 case 

TheNow Printers.. 
HAMM'S 6.20 CARLING 5.89 
Do you want clean( crisp printed copies?
CANS: STROH'S 12oz 5.19 case FALSTAFF 12 oz. 4.79 case 
Stop where speed MILLER 12oz 6.98 
and value are still important .. the Big Red Q. 
Lowest Beer Prices in Town! 
One block south of Wendy's 
Special Uquor Discounts to NO -SMC I on u.s. 31 students Call ahead for uanti ers -288-9731 277-3355 
II I 
I 

11 I· I Can't Go II Home Looking I1 I1 'Like This • • • I 
I I 
I I 
I ~ Uhe I 
I I
1 WirWjammer i 
III 1637 LWW CREATIVE II
So. Bend 232-6622 _HAIR DESIGN I
I A · t t 1 \ __ _ppom ~n on y FOR THE SEXES ,• 
-~.--..:=;:.;.;;;;;.;.;;;;;;-...-;.....~_-~--~-.;;;-~-::,)~-L.._ ----------------,
~-,..,.-,;;;....;..;......,_.....,.. _________....Jt 
>".;,.rt•1 -~')0­
'-~~-flf} ~[li;3. ~tN!1'~ ~J~ f: .l:l~.i~ ;;~._,-..) -irtt;k..:~ Jl> ;:ilJt~~_ti ... 1; _ '"_ _ __ -_.',{!.._~-I 
_,.,..._.......,...A..&..6t&....d•JIIrU'Jt1JJ~-.. .....~.........JIII; --... •U'-~------; ':..---·.3"---.---=-•--·.c--.::----'·-· ,..._._......____ -... -4 
~------~----r---------------~---------------------------------------------------------~------­
Wednesday, October 19, 1977/
12 the observer 
German hijacking ends with terrorists'suicides 
BONN., West Germany [API -killed three of the hijackers. The the road to terrorism is the road to knife, but was out of danger, they reportedly using "stun grenades," West German commandos and the fourth, a woman, was seriously self-destruction.'' said. which emit, a bright flash and loud hijack hostages they rescued flew wounded. Hours after announcing the raid, 'The officials said they did not bang, but no shrapnel, to throw the home to emotional welcomes yes­The scene at Frankfurt Interna­German officials made the surprise know how the terrorists managed hijackers offguard. terday as the government an­tional Airport was quieter as 80 announcement that three terrorists to get guns and knives into their They shot three hijackers dead nounced a bizarre sequel to the haggard and somber hostages step­held in a German jail had killed cells. There was also no indication and wounded the fourth with more five-day drama, the suicide of three ped off a Lufthansa jet to embrace themselves and a fourth had tried whether they killed themselves conventional and more deadly wea­terrorists whose freedom the hi­relatives and hold a memorial and failed. knowing the hijacking had failed, pons, and within minutes all the jackers had demanded. service for their pilot, Juargen Officials said Andreas Baader, or whether they knew of the hostages were safe. One passen­
"We are proud of you. We thank Schumann. He was murdered by 34, and his mistress Gudrun Ens­hijacking at all. ger was hospitalized in "a state of you in the name of the entire the hijackers the morning before slin, 37, were found dead in their The terrorists reportedly were collapse,'' and some others were German people," Interior Minister the raid. cells at the Stammhein maximum being held in solitary confinement injured, German officials an­Werner Maihofer told about 80 Airline officials said six rescued security prison near Stuttgart. under a new antiterrorist law to nounced. members of the commando squad hostages remained at Mogadishu, Jan-Carl Raspe, 33, died in a prevent them from communicating There was no word on whether as they arrived at the Bonn­apparently because they were un­hospital, and Irmgard Moeller, 30, with one another. the two American hostages were Cologne airport. able to travel. was rushed to a hospital, they said. The four were the core ofthe Red among the group flown to West 
A brass band played the national In the flurry of developments, The four had been among 11 Army Faction, the ultra-leftist Germany or remained in Somalia. anthem and hundreds of Germans there was no word on the fate of jailed German terrorists whose group that kidnaped Schleyer and They are Christine M. Santiago, applauded from the airport termi­Hanns Martin Schleyer, the Ger­freedom was demanded by the is popularly known as the Baader­44, of Santee, Calif., and her nal. Wives and sweethearts rushed man industrialist kidnaped in Co­Lufthansa hijackers. They had also Meinhof gang. Coleader Ulrike 5-year-old son Leo. to hug the returning heroes. logne Sept. 5. His kidnapers had demanded the freedom of two Meinhof was found hanged in her The dramatic raid served as a 
Acting with surgical precision in vowed to kill him Sunday unless the Arabs held in Turkey and $15 cell. baptism in fire for Border Guard the predawn darkness at Somalia's hijackers' demands were met. million in ransom. Group 9, a strike force formed after Mogadishu airport, the comman­Announcing the Mogadishu raid Officials said Baader and Raspe the disastrous failure of German 
Wave of terrorism expected 

dos stormed the hijacked Lufthansa early yesterday, a Bonn spokesman shot themselves in the head with policemen to rescue Israeli Olympic 737 through emergency exits, res­addressed Schleyer's captors: "Re­pistols and Miss Moeller stabbed athletes seized by Arab terrorists in cued all 86 hostages aboard and lease your prisoner and realize that herself in the chest with a bread-Officials said the suicides could Munich in 1972. 
That attack ended with all 11set off a new wave of terrorism. A Israeli hostages dead along withjoint statement by the Bonn their five captors and one police­government and major political 
man, and the Germans realized
Pentagon denies HEW request 
parties said members of ''a terror­that conventional police were insuf­ist organization have pledged to ficient to deal with trained terror­further sharpening of their fanati­ists.
for federal employees' records 
cal and murderous struggle against After the raid, Bonn spokesmanour country and its order."
would proceed under a section of
WASHINGTON [API· 1 after the former head of the federal The raid on Mogadishu conclu­praised Somalia for its cooperation, 
the privacy law that permits commission on privacy criticized
Government investigators looking ded a hijack drama that began while governments around the
transfer of personnel information
for welfare cheaters have personnel Califano for abusing privacy rights when four heavily armed terrorists world joined in praising Bonn.
between agencies for so-called in his campaign. 
information on 2.8 million federal. President Carter hailed the Ger­
commandeered a Lufthansa flight
"routine use." Prof. David F. Linowes of the
employees, but are being denied mans for the "courage of their
with 91 aboard over the FrenchIn order to do that, the Pentagon University of Illinois, who headed
access to military records because Riviera and ordered it on a six-stop, decision."
must publish its plan in the Federal the U.S. Privacy Protection
of Pentagon concerns about Perhaps the most significant
6,000 mile journey that ended atRegister and give the public and Commission until it disbanded in
privacy. plaudits came from Israel, the
Somalia.
individuals affected by the transfer July, attacked a proposal to allow
Health, Education and Welfare nation whose athletes died in
There the hijackers dumped thean opportunity to object.
(HEW) Secretary Joseph A. big businesses to match murdered pilot out of the plane and Munich and which itself stunned
The Civil Service Commission said government computer information
Califano, Jr., has ordered the the world last year with the raid on
stated the last of their deadlines,it was acting under a different on welfare recipients with the
personnel information, including 3:30 a.m. yesterday. Entebbe to rescue 100 Jewish
section of the law that permits it to
employee names, Social Security names of their employees. But during the night, acting with hostages held by pro--Palestinian
turn over files on employees to law The request for private help in
numbers and birth dates, terrorists.
the cooperation of the Somalienforcement agencies investigation Operation Match came from
compared with data on government "It was indeed a salvation in 

government, the German comman·civil and criminal cases. Califano after the government
welfare rolls in what he has dos landed at Mogadishu and with which all free men rejoice," Prime
Disclosure of the Civil Service learned that 1, 732 federaldubbed, "Operation Match." 
only 30 minutes to go before the Minister Menahem Begin de­Commission and Defense 
errml,l)vt:es were on the District of
The plan is designed to identify deadline they stormed the jetliner, clared.
Department actions came one roles.
federal employees who are taking 
welfare benefits from the government illegally or improperly. Civil Service Commission officials said yesterday they have given the 
H.E. W. Department computer tapes identifying all government employees except those in security agencies and some congressional and judicial posts. 
A memorandum of understanding between the commission and 
H. E. W.'s inspector general said 
• the giant social service agency promises to safeguard the data it gets and destroy the files when it is finished. 
But a spokesman for the Pentagon said its lawyers and privacy board officials thought Califano's request 
I . for sensitive personnel data might violate the federal privacy act. The iaw was designed to limit the flow
~ 
' of personal information from
~ 
agency to agency. 
"We talked to H.E.W. and the Office of Management and Budget about it," the spokesman said. "We just wanted to make sure this thing was done legally. Our aim really was to see if there was any way we could comply with the request and the act, too." 
Defense officials decided they 
Weiss to attend Project meeting, 
Professor Herold Weiss of the department of religious studies at Saint Mary's College will attend a · three day meeting of the Philo Project Team at the Institute for Antiquity and Christianity at the Claremont Graduate School in Cali­fornia from October 20-22. 
Professor Weiss is a member of the Philo Project Team whose purpose is to investigate Jewish interpretation of the Pentateuch in Alexandria during the Hellenistic period. 
The other members of the team are scholars teaching at both American and European universi­ties. The Philo Project at Clare­mont is a step-child of the Philo Institute at McCormick Theological Seminary in Chicago, of which Dr. Weiss is a founding member. 
KING OF BEERS® • ANHEUSER-BUSCH, INC. • ST. LOUIS 
WHEN DO ENGLISH M~S SAY BUDWEISER®! 
• • --... ~----_,.. -· -..... ~ .................. ·-···· ..... ., ....~..........,._,....,._,. .. ¥.J/l'Ok................., ............ .-w,y ......... ~..........,.,. • .....,_••~. 
Wednesday, October 19, 1977 
the observer 13 
Rectors consider effects of j-board proposal 
[Continued from page 1] 
representative of the hall." 
In general, Pedi felt the stress on 
the hall j-board in the SLC proposal 
shows that there is a concern for 
student involvement in the discipli­
nary process. . 
The importance of the attttude of 
the rector was stressed by Fr. 
Thomas Tallarida, Zahm Hall rec­
tor. He pointed out that the rector 
would be the executor of j-board 
decisions, and said he felt that the 
proposal basically does not greatly 
change the situation. 
The confidentiality of the j-board 
proceedings is important, accord­
ing to Tallarida. "It has to be done 
with decorum and secrecy," he 
said. "I do fear the marijuana 
jurisdiction if it gets spread all over 
the hall that so-and-so uses pot." 
"It-will not effect this hall," 
Tallarida said of the proposal. 
Cases are generally handled by the 
staff, he said. "Students aren't 
afraid of the staff,'' he added. 
Fr. James Riehle, Pangborn 
rector, said that the j-board in 
Pangborn has never handled a 
case, to his knowledge. "We have 
a j-board in name only," he said, 
explaining that there are very 
rarely any violations of hall rules. 
"I can't really get excited about the 
hall changes being proposed," he 
commented, noting that there is no 
strong sentiment in the hall for an 
active i-board. "Nobody's been 
Dancin' Irish group receive runaround 
[Continued from page 11) 
did not say that. That may have 
been their impression, but I am 
sure I did not say that," he 
emphasized. 
Stohrer found it ironic that two weeks prior to their meeting with Benesh, the Dancin' Irish's revised constitution was submitted into Student Activities and accepted. She remembered that. "it had been accepted, and the section in it that wasn't revised was our purpose · which was to do dance at major athletic events. We had nothing in there," continued Stohrer, ·'restricting our activities to only basketball, just dancing at major athletic events. That was accept­able when we first got started and they accepted it now.'' 
Stefani and Stohrer next enlisted ·the services of John Ryan, Asst. to 
Student Body President, Dave 
Bender. The co-captains said Ryan 
went to see Benesh and found out 
he had sent a letter to Bro. Just, 
Dir. of Student Affairs, informing 
him of his decision to restrict the 
Dancin' Irish from performing on 
the football field. Ryan also tried to 
get the support of Dave Bender 
behind the Dancin' Irish. Accord­
ing to Stohrer, however, "Bender 
Was totally against it. He wouldn't· 
go for it so he said he couldn't help 
us." 
"Who else do we go to?" 
Stefani asked. She noted that , 
"Bro. Benesh said it stopped with 
him. We found out too late about 
Bro. Just. How much higher can 
we go-Fr. Hesburgh?" 
Stefani concluded that, "The 
whole point we're trying to get out 
of this is that we feel we're getting 
a run-around. They have been 
sending us around since the first 
week of school, I'm sure they knew 
from the beginning that we weren't 
going to get out,'' continued Stef­
ani, "but yet they had us run­
around from pillar to post to all 
these different places." 
"It wouldn't have been so bad if we 
could get some valid reason why, 
but we don't see the difference 
between whether or not the Dan 
cin' Irish perform or the cheerlead­
ers get up and dance there. How 
many people would notice the 
difference? We'veworked so hard; 
it's a hard fall." 
However, even though, as Stef­
ani admitted, "there's not a whole 
lot left to do," the two Dancin' Irish 
co-captains are planning to meet 
with Bro. Just soon. 
knocking at my door," Riehle said. at Notre Dame. "I haven't them,'' she explained. ''The j-boards. "The University is not
"I think what's happened basic­prevented anything from happen­situation calls for an education of just a little boot camp for futureally is that they've rearranged the ing," she claimed, "but students the whole hall," as well as giving 
life. This is the student's realfurniture, but nothing has been don't push for a j-board." 
members of the j-board some kind world. Whether a hall is activelyadded," Holy Cross Rector Fr. One reason for non-active boards of special training, she added. 
involved or has good spirit, it's usGeorg Wiskirchen commented. He in Farley,she said, may be that The proposed changes are an that's doing it," he said.
pointed out that students have there are fewer disciplinary pro­improvement, according to Fr. 
"I work on the premise thatalways had the right to a hearing blems in women's halls than in Eugene Gorski, rector of Howard. 
students should be involved in thebefore the j-boards, but students men's halls. "Men's dorms bear He observed that while the hall entire process, all the way to thehave never seemed to take a great more of the weekend social life," does not have many disciplinary top, and that would include having
interest in it. He felt the utilization she observed. problems, the j-board is active and students even on the Board of
of j-boards will depend on the "We wonder what we should be has already been following most of Trustees," Splain commented.particular rector involved and qu~s­doing to encourage j-boards,'' Lenz 
the proposed changes. Fr. Richard Conyers, Keenantioned the frequency with whtch said of the rectors of the women's Gorski advocated an extensive rector, said it would be "fantastic" cases would come up before the halls. The choice lies basically with use of j-boards by rectors. "the if the proposed changes are imple­j-boards. 
the students, she indicated. j-board is always consulted in mented throughout the University.
Although she said she feels that "I think it's a positive move, an Howard and will continue to be," He said that many of the ideas inrelatively few students are concer­opportunity for students to really he said. On cases where the the proposal came from the Keenan
ned with the j-boards, Ann Payne, participate," commented Sr. j-board does not actually hear a hall j-board. "We are the activeLewis rector, is supportive of the Vivian Whitehead, Breen-Phillips case, it may be asked to give advice 
j-board," he claimed.boards, "I know that I support rector. "I intend to use the on a case described generally to it. 
"In Keenan, the j-board runsthem. They add to the idea of j-board.'' She also noted that there ·'The more students are involved itself. It's up to the community to
community living," she said. are less disciplinary problems in and try to understand the offense fot provide leadership, as well asWhile approving of the idea of women's halls. their peers, the better," Gorski enforcement. If both the rector and
students being judged by their Whitehead said the standardiza­asserted. ''They should under­the j-board are working toward the peers, Payne emphasiz~d that tion of the boards gives them more stand how to come up with sanc­same goal, then there is a true
j-boards should be used tn areas credibility on a University-wide tions for disciplinary failures." community spirit,'' Conyers
where they are needed, but "not in basis. She added that j-boards Additionally, he said that "team commented. one-to-one counseling situations." should govern public hall offenses, decisions" are better than those of Payne emphasized the roles of such as noise prcblems. "If the a single person. "The disposition
the individual rectors in determin­offense is of a t:-rivate and very of the situation is more humanly HPC progressesing the success of the j-boards. ''It serious nature, the j-board werked out by more people, prefer­would be nice if the j-board did shouldn't have to take the responsi­ably a team of peers," he added. [Continued from page 1]become a viable force," she said, bility," she said. ''I see more power being given 
ered alot of things," he said. He"but you're dealing with a lot of Lack of educatic t is one reason to the i-board and this is a positive noted that sudden developmentshalls and a lot of rectors." why j-boards are not used, she stqJ,,.· stated Fr. Splain, Grace such as ~he groundskeepers situa­
Sr. Jean Lenz, rector of Farley, asserted. ''The j-b.>ards have been redor. "I will do my utmost to use tion and the concern for the Loganpointed to the underdevelopment inactive for so loi' g that students it." Splain underscored the more­Center bt dget have taken preced­of j-boards as the biggest problem don't think in :erms of using than-educational nature of 
ence over other HPC matters. 
------------------------------------~ 


,.4. 
Ron Querida Rum 115 $3.99 Imported French Wine 115 $1.99 
Jim Beam 112 gal $10.90 ~Andre Champagne 115 $1.99 
Seagrams 7 Crown 115 $3.99 Bois Peppermint Schnapps () $4.62 
Canada Dry Vodka Qt. $3.99 ·Mr. & Mrs. T Bloody Mary 
Mix 
4 LOCATIONS OPEN TILL 11 P.M. 
• Town & Country Centre McKinley at Hickory Rd. 
Phone 259-3262 

Old Mil Case Qt. $5.80 
• River Park Liquor
Falstaff 6-pack $1.49 
2411 Mishawaka Ave. 
Phone 289-3868 

Carling Case Qts. $5.80
• Southland Uquor Plaza 
4411 S. Ironwood South Bend 291-7580 
• 12th St. Li11•r Store 1753 12th St., Mishawaka 
Phone 259-8634 

10o/o Discount for ND students with ID 

~------~-~-------­
-----~~---~~---~ 
....... .,. .. 
YVednesday, Ckiober19, 1977
1& the obMner 
Martin's contract runs through 1979 
NEW YORK [AP] -The New York Yankees gave Billy Martin a public pat on the back and a fat bonus Tuesday, temporarily removing the blade that had been 
hanging  over  the  head  of .the  
beleaguered manager.  
President  Gabe  Paul  hauled  

Martin into a hastily called press conference hours before the sixth World Series game against the Lost Angeles Dodgers to make the announcement. 
"We hope this will put to rest the unfounded rumors that a change 
*Observer 
Sports 
Yankee season ends in glory 
[Continued from page 16) Sosa in the fifth and a monstrous 4SO-foot drive off Charley Hough in the eight. 
"I was thinking about a home run the last time," Jackson said, "but really, I was more or less thinking about a hit. I had a good swing at it and-BINGO! I couldn't really believe it." 
The end of the Yankees' tumul­tuous and divisive but ultimately successful campaign also came as a relief to Martin, who cried tears of joy just one year after he wept in embarassment when the Yankees were swept in four games by the Cincinnati Reds. 
"I can't put it into words," said the fiery little manager as he sat 
Contributions up 'two-fold' 
[Continued from page 3) years rate ot contribution was up "at least two-fold" from last year. 
J.P. Russell, student campaign chairman, attributes the great stu­dent donation to "a concerted 
• effort to collect from individual students. This was different," continued Russell, "from last years fund source of student sponsored functions." This was an appropri­ate contribution given that students are on a marginal income,stated Russell. 
Hotline Program 

A total of 2SOO people throughout the St. Joseph County are active volunteers. Aside from getting pledges, some of these volunteers operate a Hotline system which consists of a 24 hour crisis interven­tion phone service. Volunteers staff the phones by working a minimum of four hours a week. 
On the average there are 600 calls coming into the office each month. These calls deal with all types of personal problems and .:rises. 
Volunteers are trained in com­munication skills, crisis interven­tion, sexuality and drug problems, child-abuse, rape and suicide and community recourses. 
The United Way Hotline system also provides services for agencies such as Sex Offense Staff (SOS), , Child Abuse and Neglect Co-ordi­nating (CANCO), Drug Abuse Rescue Team (DART) and Gam­blers Anonymous. 
Hotline will offer a marathon training session the weekend of Nov. 12. An initial meeting will be on Thursday, Nov. 10 with an optional session being offered on Tuesday. Nov. IS. All sessions will be held at St. Mary's campaign headquarters. 
Any interested students should was about to be made," Paul said, reading from a prepared state­ment. "Billy's contract . runs through the 1979 season." 
contad  the  Voluntarv  Action  
Center hy Tu esday. Nov.  I. Call  
232-2522.  

Martin, attired in jeans and leather jacket and looking sleepy­eyed, also took the rostrum to read a reply. 
"I am very pleased and happy after talking with Gabe Paul about this year, next year and '79," he said. He has two years to go on a three-year contract at $100,000 a year. 
Since there was no reference to a 
slumped behind his office desk, all the fire seemingly extinguished for 
the time being. 

"It's something you wish for all your life and here it's happened," continued Martin, who played on four World Championship teams as a Yankee under Casey Stengel and finally became a championship pilot while managing his fourth major league team. 
"I bet he's happy," Martin said with a catch in his voice as he stared at a prominent picture of Stengel on his wall. , 
"I know he's happy. I have a lot to thank that man for, but I wish he'd taught me more about public relations. 
"I don't think I had anything to 
Coming off last weeks' record breaking performance, jerome Heavens is a key part of Notre Dame's offense. 
e to Where the Krunch Is I 
FISH &CHIPS LEMON LUV (dessert)\ SHRIMP 

DRINKS -PEPSI CHICKEN LEMONADE
KRUNCH PUP CHOWDER 

10% Discount ,with I.D. 409 LWW 1733 N Ironwood Rd. Mishawaka South Bend 

new extended contract, which 
Martin indicated he wanted, the 
assembled newsmen seemed at a 
loss to understand the significance 
ofthe impromptu press conference. 
"What are you trying to tell us 
-that Billy is not going to be fired?" 
someone asked. 
"Exactly," replied Paul. 

There have been recurring rumors that Martin was going to get the axe at the end of this season regardless ofthe Yankees' success, because of his obstinacy and fre­quent clashes not only with owner George Steinbrenner, but also with key players, particularly the $2.9 million superstar, Reggie Jackson, signed personally by Steinbrenner before the start of the season. 
The fiery manager, who previ­ously had lost jobs at Minnesota, Detroit and Texas, almost came to blows with Jackson after yanking the right fielder in a nationally televised game in mid-June and Steinbrenner reportedly flew to Detroit to fire him on June 19. 
Jackson joined catcher Thruman Munson, backup catcher Fran 
prove. Last year we got beat because we weren't ready; this year we were ready. Everything is worthwhile now. 
"Reggie was super, just super. 
I'm real happy for him." 

Martin's discourse was interrup­ted by the entrance of George Steinbrenner, the Yankees' out­spoken and controversial owner. Acting calm, cool and collected and wearing a poker face, Steinbrenner extended his hand to Martin, muttered, "Nice going, see you later," and started to walk away. 
But only for a second. The owner and the manager fell into each others arms and Steinbrenner said, "The World Championship is back in New York where it belongs." 
Healy and outfielder Lou Piniella in new wave of rumors, apparently interceding with the owner on that provoked management's hasty Martin's behalf. Martin's job was ,:a:::.ct::.io.:..:n.:..:·-----------, 
saved. 
The manager's post appeared further jeopardized last weekend when Martin and Jackson engaged in a sharp exchange after Jackson criticized the choice of stale Catfish Hunter for pitching duty in the second Wprld Series game. Tur­moil was intensified with the release of excerpts ·from a Time magazine article which quoted Jackson as saying he would not play in 1978 if Martin were still manager. 
Jackson emphatically denied the statement. A New York paper accused Steinbrenner of planting 
the  magazine  story  in  order  to  
grease  the  skids  for  Martins  
removal.  

It was this suggestion, plus a 
rnic:hae~s 
hair sta.,LinQ
etc. 

FOR APPT.CALL: 272-7222 18381 EDISON RD. AT SO. BEND AVE. 
Game by Game Summary of the World Series 
Gamel 

New York  4,  Los  Angeles 3,  l:.Z  
innings  
Game2  

Los Angles 6, New York 1 Game3 New York 5, Los Angeles 3 Game4 New York 4, Los Angeles 2 GameS Los Angeles 10, New York 4, Game6 
New York 8, Los Angeles 4, New 
York wins Workd Series 4-2. 
'===========:=======:::::.. 
_,

LEE'S 
THURSDAY Night We're Having A 

Schiltz Party
3 cans for $1 .00 
.-oar~eque-poli5hiausa9e 
otato salad special T-shirts on sale 
Featuring the finest in hickory smoked barbeque -c:ooked over an open pit with special sauce 
Thursday is 

IU2 S. Bend Ave. 
Time:

Phone 
289-0639 -7:00tlll ? 
NOW •.• 18th WEEK 
Eiltirely in stereophonic D>uby sound!! 
1 , .·~ .. 

.sTAR. HARS ~:;tl!; 
At 1 i45-4 :05-6 :45-9 :20 No passes or diS<Dunt tid<ets 
United Eilgagemmt 
The spirit of '69 ... when the lights turned off ... the kids turned on! 
/ 
~-__../'/ 

with••• Rlil Silvers c;tp\IP. Guttenberg Usa Reeves -N\eridith 
_/ . 

_..../'// Aiday at 7:15-9:45 
A 

~ Sat.Sun. 2:30-4:45-7:15-9:45 
NOTICE 

Learn how to play pocket billiards in the pool room of LaFortune Student Center under the Huddle. Just see the student manager on duty for help. 
NEED QUALITY TYPING? Executary Inc., Professional Typing Service IBM Correcting Selectrics. 85 cents per apge minimum. Call 232-0898 "When you want the best." 
Accurate fast typing .... Mrs. Donoho, 232-Q746. Hours, 8 am to 6 pm. 
Typing...Call Carolyn. 232-9061. 
Need easy reading over the break? Pandora's has plenty of used books. Pipes and paraphenaiia too. 937 South Bend Avenue. 
PROFESSIONAL TYPING ...Correcting Selectric typewriter, experienced in dis­sertalons, reasonable. 232-5715. 
Over 65 or handicapped? Wa need to hear from you! Call 234-8190 to complete ashort confidential survey on transporta­tion needs in St. Joseph County. [The Task Force on Specialized Transporta­tion.t 
FREE ALBUMS WSND has Steve Miller albums for Homecoming. Tune into 640 AM for details. 
Bus service to Chicago-Every Friday this semester. Buses arrive at circle at 5:05. For ticket and info call Shep, 8330. 
Riders needed to Cleveland for braek. Call Tom at 277-1222. 
Opening Soon -Gupps and Chubbs Bar and Grill ... For the after theatre crowd. 
LEAVING FRIDAY FOR WASHINGTON D.C.? Please call me, Steve, at 1396. I need a ride desperately. Return ride if possible. Driving and expenses. 
LOST AND FOUND 

LOST: $100 reward for anyone who finds acharm bracelet. One round charm with inscription. Great Sentimental Value. Call Monica, 272-5720. 
FOUND: On sidewalk, a1976 Holy Cross Preparatory class ring. Call Denise 4-5402. ' 
LOST: SMC I D and other valuables at Kubiaks on Friday, October 7. !! found, please call JoAnn, 4-5778. $Reward$$. 
LOST: Brown leather wallet on Saturday the 8th. If found, please call John at 3074. Reward. 
FOUND: One walking cane at Grace Hall party, Oct. 1. On 8th floor. Call 1747. 
FOUND: Miniature poodle near campus. Call 234-5120 after 10 am. 
LOST: Football ticket with ID. This poor freshman is in fits. Please, 4-4728. 
~OST: In music practice room on piano, a t1mex watch without band. Sentimental value. No questions asked, call 8570. 
LOST: or stolen, Tl-50 calculater on Oct. 12 in Psychology Aud., Hagger Hall. Please return. No questions asked. Call Mike, 1852. 
LOST: An N D monogram jacket in North Dining Hall. Reward for its return. My name is on the shoulder of the coat. Dave, 2216. 
LOST: 1-36 exposure film -color-used­Kodak. If you find it, please call 289-0286. 
LOST: Its cold out! I forgot my blue winetr jacket at South Dining Hall on Saturday. Please return--reward. Tim 3775. ' 
ANYONE KNWOING THE WHERE­ABOUTS OF JEFF [ABE ] KOHOLER CALL 4-4365. LAST SEEN AT THE LIBRAR¥2:30 am SATURDAY OCT. 16. 
FOR RENT 

Apartment for Rent. ..Fabulous one of a kind townhouse on the river in Elkhart. Sunken living room, fireplace, swimming pool, sunken red Japanese soaking tub, dishwasher, laundry equipment In each unit, winding staircase, some with sky­light. Leases conform to school year. Nothing like it anywhere! 294-2151. 
FOR SALE 

A.K.C. Doberman Pups, Champion Bloood Lines.... Reds. $75. Ph. 289-7562. 
6X9 beige cotton carpeting, good condi­tiOn; Car tap luggage carrier and gree pull-up Naugerahyde choir. Call 232­3408 after 5:30. 
To the Ramada-Inn Kid Sugits Von 
Zipper, and Big "T": ' ' NrJ needs to tiy terrorized s•J return to S-Mh Bend . . Pronto" 
FLANNER RECORD SALES.......An on campus. student run, record shop. We stock all new releases and can order any album still being produced. Also availa~le, blank tapes, components, ac­cessones, pre recorded 8 tracks and cassettes. Prices.....$6.98 list lp's only $4.50.....$7.981ist lp's only $5.29.......... . $7.98 list tapes only $5.29....$7.98 list lp's only $5.29. Flanner Records, 322 Flanner. Phone 2741. Hours, 4-5, 6:30-8:00 M-Th. Sun, 2-3:30. 
2 GA USC tickets. BEST offer. Call 272-3116. 
FOR SALE: 1Student Season ticket. Call 
8364 
1974 Fiat Spider Convertible; 26,000 miles, mint condition. $2850. 
12th Row Steve Miller tix (2) for sale or trade for CSN tlx. Bob, 6984. 
USC student for sale.....Call 7923 after 6 pm. 
Available: 2seats for Southern Cal game. Wil need big $$$. Call 288-4523 after 1:00. 
2Student USC tix. Highest bidder. Call 5156. 
FOR SALE: 1974 Fiat Spider Convertible. 26,000 miles. Mint condition. $2850. Call 259-7704. 
WANTED 

Needed badly--2 student tickets for the Georgia Tech game. Will pay geld! Call 272-4478 after 5:15. 
Desperately need 2Geo. Tech GA tickets. Call 288-8235. 
ONE USC TICKET.....MONEY IS AB­SOLUTELY NO OBJECT. CALL 1866 PLEASE! 
SAVE MY LOVE LIFE -Need three USC GA tix for girlfriend and parents. Call Rocco, 1386. 
Desperately need 4 Student or GA Georgia Tech tickets. Call Mary, 4-4764. 
Need six GA Clemson tickets. Call Leo, 287-7051. 
Need six Southern· Cal Tix. Mark, 287-7051. 
Desperately need 2 GA tickets to Georgia Tech. Call Suzy 5148. 
---~­

2-4 USC GA tickets. Call 288-0088. 
So. Cal. vs ND football tickets ...Oct. 22. Sports Tour, 3050 W. 7th Street, L.A. Calif., 90005, 213-384-1951. Will pay $$$. Also, could use four tickets to any home game. 
Need ride to St. Louis for Oct. Break. Call 4-4101. 
Need 2GA tickets for Georgia Tech. Call 4-4146. 
Desperately need ride to Ft. Lauderdale for October Break. 4-4101. 
Help Pam find Georgia Tech tickets for family. 
Need two GA tix for USC. Call Jim at 8708. 
I 

Wanted: 5USC tickets. Call Paul at 1424. 
Desperately need 2 GA Georgia Tech tickets. Help! Call Mike at 1687. 
Wanted: 4 GA or student USC tix. Call Steph 4-5424. 
Wanted: 4 USC tickets.. .Will pay good bucks. Call Jim at 1419. 
Need 2Southern Cal Tix. Beth, 272-2340. 
Wanted: One student USC ticket. Call Chuck at 1436. 
Wanted: Desperately need 6 GA tix to any home game. Call Chris at 1158. 
Need 4USC GA tix. Will pay$$, call Ron at 1423. 
WantedZ: 4GA Southen Cal tix. Will pay good bucks. Call 1423, ask for Mike. 
Addressers wanted immediately! Woork at home.....no experience necessary... excellent pay. Write American Service, 8350 Park Lane, Suite 269, Dallas, TX, 75231. 
·----------------------­
Wanted: 4 tickets togethjer to any home game. Call 289-9530 (Debbie) after 6 pm. 
Want$$$? Need So. Cal. vs N D football tix for Oct. 22. Sports ZTour at 3050 W. 7th Street, L.A., Calif., 90005. Call 213-384-1951. Could also use 4tix for any home game. 
Need 2 GA Georgia Tech tickets. Cal Kathy, 4-4348. 
Wanted-3 USC tix. Call Kate, 4983. 
CLASSIFIED ADS 
Need ride to Cincinnati area after game. Will gladly share expenses. Call Therese Anne, 7905. 
Need 4 GA or Student USC tickets. Cal John, 1757. 
Top pay tor 2 USC GA tlx. Call Jacob, 8720. 
Need two tickets for Clemson game. Call Pete Mellon, 287-6023, or 288-9161. 
We need tix to Navy game. Please call, 289-6255. 
Need 2 GA Air Force tix. Call Claire 289-6533. 
Need USC tickets... .Will pay excellent price. Call Dan, 1589. 
Wanted: 2 or 4 GA Geoirgia Tech tix. Please! Call Ann, 6859. 
Parent's love in jeopardy. Desperately need 2 GA Navy tickets. Steve, 8337. 
Ride needed for Oct. Break to North Jersey-NYC area. Call Bruce, 3587. 
HELP 
A Damsel in Distress needs ride back from New York City or Northern New Jersey (Bergen County) area. Good company. Will share driving and expenses. Call Jill, 5362. 
NEED TWO STUDENT [PREFERABLY] OR GA TICKETS TO USC. CALL SUZV, 5361. 
Need 2-3 GA or Married Stud. USC tix. Call 256-t341. 
Wanted: 1 GA ticket for USC. Call 3060. 
Needed 4 USC GA tickets: Call Jim 8376. 
Honey, headed for Dixie over break? Need ride to Memphis area. Call Adelia, 7812. Will share expenses. 
2 Need rides from NYC after Oct. break. Call 2722. 
NYC or Ll is where 1want to go for break. Share expenses. Joe-6256. 
Needed Badly: A ride from Chicago tio NO, Friday, call1747. 
Need 2 usc tickets, preler!lbly stl!dent. Call 288-8417 after midnight. 
Need two tickets to Clemson game. Call Dennis 8985. 
Need many USCV GA tickets. You have them I will buy them. Call Tom 234-0980 evenings. 
Is one USC ticket worth 2 padded seat Steve Miller tickets? If so, call Bill, 1073. 
Need USC tickets Call 1128. 
Need ride to Philadelphia area. Share driving and $$$. Alison, 2205. 
NEED ND-St. Mary's Stusent's night work -Nicola's Rest. -809 N. Michigan St. Part time or fulltime. Hourly pay. V'{aitress and busboy. Pizzza make, D1swasher. Apply in person ... Nicola's Restaurant. 
Wanted: 2 or 3 Steve Miller tickets 3 ideal. Will pay$$$. Mary, 3850. ' 
Need 4 GA tickets together to any home game. Pay good bucks. Call Dennis, 2120. 
Wanyted: 4 USC GA tickets, 2 USC Student tickets, call Guy 289-9351. 
Need ride to Dayton or vicinity Oct. 21. Ted, 1756. 
I WAS PLAYING TOO MUCH SOCCER AND FORGOT TO GET TWO GA NAVY TIX. I'LL PAY ANY PRICE. CALL JOE, 3708. 
1 Help! I need GA USC tickets. Please call 
4-4n4. 
HELP! Need 3 GA (or 2 GA and 1 Stud.) ticket for Geogia Tech! Call Rosie, 1291. 
Desperately need Steve Miller tickets. Call Kathy at 8085. 
Need two good Steve Miller tickets. Will trade USC student tix or money. Call Tony at 277-4784. 
Needed: 2 GA tickets for Georgia Tech. Call Betsy, 4-4184. 
One student USC ticket for sale. Will take best offer. Call Anne, 4-4380. · 
Need riders to Cleveland. Leaving Friday morning 10-21. Call 4-4001. 
w 
anted: 2USC GA tix together. Will pay $35.00 apiece. Call Kim, 4-4373. 
Need ride back to ND after break from Philadelphia-NYC area. Call Marti 277­
TYPIST WANTED: Full time to typeset display advertizing, Monday' and Wed­nesday thru Saturday afternoons and or evenings. Hourly pay. Experience helpful, but not necessary. Apply in pe_rson at: The Penny Saver, 2102 S. Michigan St., South Band, 288-1411. 
Desperately need ride to Binghamton NY after USC game. Will share expenses. Call Rick, 3583. 
Wanted: 4 USC tics will psay big bucks....Call 8341. 
Need 4 GA USC tickets and two student. Kathy, 272-3634. 
Need 2 USC GA tix....will pay $$$. 
4-4438. . 
Need ride from central New York back to Notre Dame after October bnreak. Will share whatever. Call Mark, 1852. 
Need ride top BLOOMINGTON TO see Dead ...Sun, Oct., 31. JB, 8946. 
Wanted: Ride needed toi NYC araea for October break. Will share expenses. Call Jim at 1436. 
Wanted: Ride needed to NYC area for October break. Will share expenses and driving. Call Ray at 1436. 
Wanted: 3 USC tickets. Call Red at 1461. 
Need 1-3 ZGA USC tickets. Big money. Call Kevin, 8713. 
Need ride back to N D from Miami U Cincinati area after braek. John, 8981. ' 
P_a~ents coming from Seattle for first big VISit to ND ... Need 2 GA tix to Georgia Tech. Martha H., 4-4728. 
Need ride to Massachusetts. Will share usual. Call TIJm 1485. 
Looking for two GA tickets to USC. Call Joe, evenings, 234-0980. 
WiII trade stud. tic and $money for 2 Georgia Tech GA's. C.all 233-7604. 
Need one GA ticket for Georgia Tech. Call Mary, 1263. 
I need USC tix, call Tom Basile, 233-8288. 
Need ride to Omaha for Fall braek. Call Colin, 8689. 
Need 2 GA USC or Navy tickets. Gall Randy 8622.
&------------------­
Wanted: Several young men to help with appromotion. Cash Pay-no door to door selling. Contact Miss Edie at the Knights, "272-0312 or 272-8471. 
Brother and sisiter need ride to Cham­paign Ill. area af.ter USC game. Will share expenses. Call 4-5181 or 1811. 
Wanted: 2 female students to sublet campus view apts. Call Kathy, 6781. 
Wanted: 8 GA Navy tickets, together if possible. Will pay $. Call 288-6!152 after 6 pm. 
Need ride to Terre Haute, Ind. after USC game. Will share expenses. Mark, 3239. 
Need 4 tickets for Southern Cal game. Call Paull-219-745-2892 colllect or Kim 284-5369. 
Wanted: An accurate, efficient secretary to work with students. Must be able to type at least 40 words per minute and have agood telephone voice. Call Joe or Rick at 6413 from 2-4, MWF. 
Wi II exchange two 6th row seats Steve Miller for 2 good CSN tickets. Call Kevin, 1725. 
Wanted: 5 GA Navy tickets. Call Phil 8762. ' 
Desperate for one Navy GA ticket. Call Bill, 8858. 
Desperately need ride to Milwaukee Friday, Oct. 21. Will help pay expenses. Call Tim, 2197. 
PERSONALS 
GOOD LUCK ND CREW AT THE HEAD OF THE CHARLES!!! 
Lost-One date at the Library (see Lost and Found). Found roomate date at the "Elks" club. Champaigne, anyone?$ 
ZThere once was a girl we all know 
~n~a~'~J00 ~~eo~~~~~~~!rshe did go It was sure to embarass her Apologies to Shirley and Mo! 
sue, Dad's American Express says no gopRoma; 6months Rome, 6months London; to Dad Suel Watch the Sunrise over 21
Tequila on your st. Last Friday night Mark Ferron came out 
Dear Blue Eyes, 

You'll always be my bestest friend coz everything with you is fantastic! Can't wait to see you this weekend! All my love, 
Princess 

PS: Yes, I'll always be your Marce-Mous. 
Dear A. H. Lyons, 

Is it true that the neice of a famous university president was seen peeking in the door of the mens locker room at the Rock. I understand the men want equal viewing time. 
Desperately need bridesmaids dress sewn for a November 12 wedding. Will Pay! I Call Maryanne, 4-4762. 
Anyone who lives at Park Jefferson Apts. please call Steve at 1478. 
Karen Nagel, Your phone has been ringing again and again. See you next semester. Margie 
Chiamapolis, 

It was agreat weekend. Next time how about two states and an empire in 48 hours, not 5 states. 
Rosemary 

WANTED ...TWO OR THR EE STUDENT OR GA TICKETS FOR SC GAME. CALL RICH, 1173 
To the space hooker of LeMans....Thanks for an evening of Galactic Funk and Space-A! delights. 600 Krudgaliesl What a bargain! 
Darth 

Tan Kag party Thursday honoring the first anniversary of tha Sorin Sevin. 1018 
N. Eddy. Do Drop Inn. 
Happy Belated Birthday to EDDIE LOUGHERY!! Hope it was great -Sorry I wasn't there . Having a super time in Mexico. Senorita Carol 
HEY CUTIE! What would JOE THINK IF HE KNEW YOU WERE CALLED THAT? Would he consider it Corky or Kinky? 
Dave Browne, 

I think you're cute even if you are a freshman. 1"11 always make the wrong (right?) turn on 3rd Morrissey! Dawn 
To the lushes in Room 208-429 Lewis... 
11 you weren't drunk all thetime maybe you could learn to spell. Loveand kisses, Hugs and squeezes, 
Chewey 

Laura Rohrbach...305 Lewi s, 
Doug B. will be here Friday, Oct. 21 , 4~(){) pm. Gal! for more inf0. Joe and Mark, 216 Alumni 
Billy, Ernie and Chip ! 
We always have so much fun doubling. Did you know Lee's offering a ribs special in honor of your return, Ernie? Wish you were coming to stay or I wish I were leaving for good. Sigh. 
M. 

Sean -Happy 20th and one day from the gang back home. Have a Guinnass on us.[or two or three or... ] Tom, Paul, Jerry, and Sua 
Maid Marion "Mais Qui" Your carousing Cavalier! 
Attention ND Crew: 
KFAatthe head. We knowyou can do it. Rats, Wish we were there! Best of luck! Joes Cool 
Susie Sunshine, Have a jumpin' time in "Wacko. M. 
I MUST GET AWAY!!! Need ride to New Haven Conn(close?). Good conversa­tionalist. Share $$$. Susan '3464. 
LAST FRIDAY NIGHT, MARK FERRON CAME OUT OF THE CLOSET. 
KB 

Are you going to bury your halloween candy In the back yard? SB 
TB 

Does your stereo still play Herb Alpert and the fight song? SB 
Capt. Nano, Happy Birthday from the Eager Beaver Squad. 
Nano, "Wail at me Woody, Ught 'EM UP!" Frank 
Have a happy 18th birthday over break, ~annie! We give you permission to sleep m late and guzzle Boone's Farm Straw­berry Hill. But remember, Classes resume October 31st at 8 am T,D, and MJ 
Need ride to Xenon Spaceship broken Call Zoid. 
Dear Jim, Oona laona hoona soona loona 'eord. 
~--~·-··-~------------.;...----~24.;,;8~3.;;o;..r1.;,;7.;,15:;;,;.__________~o:;_f~th:e_;c~los~e:;t.___________;L;_:o::::ve~,~A~n~n__ --­
~ 
"' 
. 
..... 

16 the ObSGrY8f Wednesday, October 19, 1977 
Yankees on top once again! 
Jackson explodes for 3 HRs, Torrez pitches complete game 
NEW YORK [AP] -Reggie 
Jackson smashed three home runs 
tying a World Series record set by 
Babe Ruth 51 years ago, and 
powered the New York Yankees to 
baseball's World Championship 
last night with an 8-4 victory over 
the Los Angeles Dodgers. 

Jackson, who played a major role in the season-long soap opera of the Yankees, brought the story to a fairy tale conclusion with a two-run homer in the fourth, a two-run homer in the fifth and a solo shot into the center field bleachers in the eight. Each homer came on the first pitch. 
It was the first time in World 
Series history anyone had hit three 
consecutive home runs. 

Chris Chambliss also ripped a two-run homer and Mike Torrez rode the long-ball attack to an easy, nine-hit victory as the Yankees nailed down their 21st world title and their first in 15 years. 
lhe homers were the third, fourth and fifth of the World Series for Jackson -the Yankees' leading hitter with a .450 average -as the Yankees won. 
Jackson's five home runs were the most ever by one player in a World Series. 
The first homer erased a 3-2 Dodgers lead and the second put the Yanks on top 7-3. The first twor were virtually identical, low line 
drives into the lower right field 
stands, but the third was a tower­
ing drive that bounced into an 
unoccupied area of the bleachers 
and had the capacity crowd of 
56,407 roaring its approval. 

Jackson came out of the dugout 
and doffed his cap to set off yet 
another round of cheering by the 
nearly hysterical crowd. 

After the Dodgers had scored two unearned runs in the first inning, Jackson opened on the Yankees second by walking on four pitches. Chambliss followed with his home run into the right field bleachers, tying the score. 
But Reggie Smith restored the Los Angeles lead with a third inning homer. It was his third of the Series and the ninth for the Dodgers, tying the National League record set by the Brooklyn Dodgers in 1955 and tied by Milwaukee in 1957. 
That made it 3-2 Dodgers, but Jackson took over at that point, with an awesome power show that rewrote the World Series record books. 
His first homer followed a leadoff single by Munson in the fourth inning. The hit extended Mun­son's world Series hitting streak to ten straight games -all four last year against Cincinnati and six this October. 
In the fifth, Jackson connected 

ND-SMC Tennis Tourney is successful 
sidering the relative size and Western Illinois, Griffin made it to athletic programs of some of the the finals where she met Miami of teams we competed against, I'd Ohio's Barb Taylor. Taylor's say fourth place was just right," vicious backhand proved too much she explained. Irish coach Petro for Griffin who fell 0-6,3-6. expressed similar sentiments when It was a case of Yale vs. Harvard 
by Laurie Reising Women's Sports Editor 
The first Notre Dame-St. Mary's Irish Invitational tennis tournament is history now and co-organizers Sharon Petro of Notre Dame and Kathy Cordes of St. Mary's have dubbed it "A tremendous success.' Said Petro, "I had coaches during the play of the tourney ask me to be sure and include them again next year-that alone speaks for its success.'' 
The tournament had seven schools: Central Michigan, Eastern Michigan, Marquette, Louisville, Miami of Ohio, and the two host schools, battling it out Friday and Saturday for top honors in singles and doubles competition. Miami of Ohio collected 28 points for a first place finish while St. Mary's and Notre Dame placed fourth and sixth with 18 and nine points respec­tively 
Coach Cordes was pleased with her squad's position. "Con-she said, "Ofcourse I wish we had placed a bit higher, but this tournament brought in the best competition Notre Dame has ever seen." 
The competition was stiff in the first singles action and Cindy Schuster of St. Mary's found this out early. She was trounced by Sue Wartner of Miami of Ohio 6-0,6-0. Mary Shukis of Notre Dame started out on the right foot defeating her opponent from Louisville 6-1,7-5 but was stopped in the next round by theeventualwinner, Kelli Serges of Central Michigan 6-0,6-0. 
St. Mary's made a strong showing in third singles compeition thanks to sophomore Tammy Griffin who had to come back twice from losses in the first set. By defeating players from Marquette and 
Jackson captures MVP 
NEW YORK [AP] -Reggie Jackson, whose five home runs set a World Series record, was named Most Valuable Player of the Series for his accomplishment Tuesday night. 
Jackson, who will receive a car from a national magazine, became the first man in Series history to hit three consecutive home runs. The only other man to hit three in a single game was the legendary Babe Ruth, who did it for the Yankees in 1926 and 1928, both times against the Cardinals in St. Louis. 
Jackson's 25 total bases and JO runs scored also set Series records. 
The previous marks of 24 total bases for a seven game series was shared by Brooklyn's Duke Snider, who did it in 1952, and Lou Brock of St. Louis, who did it in 1958. 
The record for a six game series was set in 1953 by current Yankees Manager Billy Martin. 
Previous record for runs scored in a Series was nine, shared by Yankee immortals Ruth-who did it in 1928-and Lou Gehrig. who did it in 1932. 
In addition. Jackson's five home runs contributed to a two-team total of 17 homers -the most ever in a single World Series. 
Series Box Score 
LOS ANGELES ab r h bi 
Lopes 2b 4010 
Russell ss 3000 
Smith rf 4211 
Cey 3b 3 11 0 
Garvey 1b 4122 
Baker If 4010 
Monday cf 4010 
Yeager c 3010 
Davillo ph 1 0 1 1 
Hooton p 2000 
Soso p 0000 
Rau p 0000 
Goodson ph 1000 
Hough p 0000 
Lacy ph 1000 Total 
34 4 9 4 

L.A. 201 000 001 -4 N.Y. 020 320 Olx -8 E-Dent, DP-New York 2. LOB L.A.5, New York 2. 2b-Chambliss. 3b-Garvey. HR-Chambliss 1, Smith 3, Jackson 3 5. SF-Piniella. WP-Torrez (2-0), LP-Hooton (1-1) 
again, tagging the first pitch with two out after Mickey Rivers had opened with a single and was forced out on an attempted sacri­fice. 
Still, Jackson wasn't through. In the eight, leading off, he hit a towering blast well back into the center-field bleachers, far beyond the 417-foot sign, an area of the Stadium rarely reached. 
Stirred by Jackson's heroics, and by the Yankee victory, fans poured onto the field as Torrez got pinch hitter Lee Lacy on a pop to the mound for the final out. 
Jackson barreled through the crowd, knocking over several fans en route to the dugout. Fans gr<!bbed Willie Randloph;s hat and bumped other Yankees players as police moved in to try and keep order. 
Rut all they could do is watch as tl~ fans raced around the diamond 
when Barbfimm and Louise Purcell St. Mary's seniors, met freshman twins Laura and Sheila Cronin of Notre Dame. Youth fell to ex­perience 6-2,6-2. The St. Mary's duo proceeded to defeat Marquette 6-2,6-3 to advance to Saturday's finals action where they met East­ern Michigan. Despite a gusty wind and SO degree temperatures, Timm and Purcell breezed to a 6-3,6-2 victory and first place. Remarked Timm, "I can't believe it, after four years we finally made it!" 
The tournament closed out the fall season for the Notre Dame squad. Under their new coach, Petro, the Irish finished with a 5-5 record. "Considering how young this team was, I think the most valuable thing we gained was experience; something we'll have to build upon for next season," said Petro. 
For St. Mary's though, there's still more to come. The "Belles" finished their dual competition season with an impressive 9-1 record and a chance to participate in the upcoming Regionals compet­ition. By placing second among 16 schools vieing in the Indiana Small College tournament, the team qual­ified for a berth in the Regionals which will be held in Chicago next spring. 
Coach Cordes remarked that she is "thrilled and really looking forward to competing against some fine talent." "I think continued Cordes, "our record more than proves that we have the depth and ability to perform well in the Regionals.'' 

NEW YORK ab r h bi 
Rivers cf 4020 Rndlph 2b 4100 Munson c 4 11 0 Jacksnrf 3435 Chmbls lb 4222 Nettles 3b 4000 Piniella If 3001 Dent ss 2000 Torrez p 3000 
Total 31 8 8 8 
in joyous celebration. There were some scuffles, but there did not appear to be any major damage. 
Torrez carried the five-run lead into the ninth, and with the police ringing the stands down the right and left field lines to try to control the crowds, the sturdy right bander went to work. He struck out Bon Cey leading off. Then, after singles by Steve Garvey and Dusty Baker, Rick Monday flied deep to Jackson at the right field wall. 
That brought up pinch hitter Vic Davalillo, who bunted for a run to make it 8-4. Martin visited Torrez at the mound but stayed with his pitcher to face Lacy. 
When it ·was over, the fans daimed the fieid with a sea of bodies sweeping over the Stadium that was modernized at a cost of $100 million just two years ago. 
It was the first World Champion­ship in the new stadium and Jackson's power display made it one of the most memorable in the storied history of the Yankees. 
more sports and World Series on page 14 

Clt~bhouse is joyous, satisfied 
NEW YORK [AP] -"Nothing can top this!" 
Reggie Jackson, somewhat subdued for a man who had just hammered three screaming home runs in the final game of the World Series Tuesday night, stood in the champagne-drenched clubhouse of the New York Yankees -the center of attention, just as he always said he would be. 
''This showed what kind of men we have, what kind of human beings we are," said Jackson between gulps of champagne from a bottle clutched in his hand. 
"I really don't want to talk about everything that's happened this 
year," he went on. "It's dead. 
The Bible says that the weak man is 
he who can not stand adversity. 
"There's a God out there some­place. I had tremendous odds against me and He helped me. This shows that everybody can get up no matter how far down you are." 
Paraphrasing the words of Los Angeles Manager Tom Lasorda, someone asked Jackson if there was a great Yankee in the sky? The slugging right fielder frowned. 
"No. Don't make fun. I try to be a good Christian but I'm not perfect. I sin all the time." 
Jackson, along with many other 
I

Yankees, seemed more relieved that the season had come to an end than overjoyed by the Yankees' first World Championship in 15 I years. 
But every so often; his elation ~ showed through. 
"Nothing can top this," he j repeated. "Who's gonna hit three home runs in the deciding game of <he Vv'ord Series?" 
Here, he permitted himself a slight smile. "I'm not." 
It was an incredibly powerful end to a season which began in contro­versy, which ebbed and flowed all summer -right up to the afternoon of the final game, when the Yankees finally gave Manager Billy Martin a vote of confidence and said he would fill the remaining two years of his contract. 
"I hit the ball good in batting practice. Real good," Jackson said. "I knew they'd pitch me inside and I was just trying to keep the ball in the playing field. The first two home runs were on balls inside. They were trying to pitch me in all Series." 
Jackson hit a two-run shot off Burt Hooton in the fourth inning, another two-run smash off Elias 
[Continued on page 14] 

St. Mary's basketball ticket allocation is reduced 
by KeUy Conlin 

Basketball tickets allotted to Saint Mary's College have been greatly reduced this year according to Mary Laverty, Director of Stu­dent Activities. In recent years the college had been allocated 350 bleacher seat tickets, but this year the total has been drastically reduced to 150. Mike Busick, Notre Dame Ticket Manager claims that the main reason for the severe reduction is that the demand from the Notre Dame students and faculty has been much greater this year. To make up for this deficit he reduced Saint Mary's ticket sales by 200 and declared a moratorium on all general admission tickets. 
To compensate for the reduction the ACC, for the first time, is allowing the Saint Mary's students to share tickets with one or more other students. The senior class will be allocated 75 tickets, while the other classes will be allotted 25 each. Laverty stated that "the only fair way to distribute the tickets is through a lottery." Starting Octo­ber 17 through November 1 stu­dents will be able to fill out applications at either the Student Activities Office in LeMans Hall or at any of the resident hall desks. This entitles the student to have their name put into the school lottery, which is to be held Novem­ber 2. 
Lists of the lottery winners will be posted in all resident hall lobbies and in the dining hall. Lottery winners are to make checks payable to Notre Dame Athletic Department, and turn them in to the Saint Mary's Student Activities Officse no later than Friday, November 4. 
In previous years~ all ticket sales were taken care of in the spring, but because the basketball sche­dule was not set at that time, the ticket office has delayed distribu­tion until the fall. 
Laverty commented that she felt, "The Saint Mary's students will be very disappointed" at the cutdown on ticket sales. According to Busick, ticket sales "might change again next year and probably won't go down any more." 







