~---------~-~~~----~~---~---~------------------­

server 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's 
Vol. XII, No. 101

Friday, March 25, 1977 
For graduation tickets 
Distribution procedure announced 
--t th f tty (636)· the Graduates who prefer all thetr Murphy emphastzed that stu­
by Jean Powley be issued for indoor cer~:momes. mh ~~~ s ~re ~ acfJ. n pres~ and tickets in the upper section will be dents were consulted about the 
St. Mary's Editor case of inclement wealther, wtt t e ~use ave t. g h 'd policy. Student representatives
th e t·thout ti'ckets being invited area medta (180); family and guests accomodated, Murp Y sat · . R b rt E C II 'd t 
os t h the proceedings on closed d · 'I b'l'ty f were L e y, prest
Notre Dame seniors will receive t w of honorary egree rectpten · ts The avat a t t o extra tickets ts f th o S .h onno, . en. five tickets and post-baccalaureate ~ w~tctelevision (100); and university professional entirely dependent upon whether Jo h eA aDw ch 00 trs semor cfasths,
11 graduates four tickets to admit ctrcu . ff(100) 0 r not graduates claim all the o n . ona ue, easurer o e
Murphy asked other members of sta · • . 'bl f senior class· Alan J Fisher presi­
1

family and guests to commence­the committee if the con,~ern ~b~ut Eac~ graduate will be entit!ed to tickets whtc~ they a~e e tgt e ':' dent of the'MBA Executiv; Oub; ment exercises May 22 in the ACC, a ticket shortage was a maJonty two adJacent resel:"'ed seat tickets ~urphy satd, addmg t~at . a ~ Michael J. Gassman resident of it was announced yesterday. 0 inion and no one supported for the lower sectton of the arena tickets left over would be dtstrtb.ut th tud t bod . • £_ th p 
Spokesman for the committee Gpassman so the proposal died. with the location determined by· ed by lottery to graduates needmg G'e s den tay, f ethnne . · 
' E h · · dd'f xtr trouar , secre ry o e semor
olanning commencement, James Accordt.ng to Gassman he then lottery. ac semor can, m a t ton, e as. J .., J H h .
1
E. Murphy, assistant vice presi­" · · 0 f th Th d thod d location c ass· ennher . ug es prest­
ro osed that they poll the seniors recewe a rnaxtmum r~e . e ate~, ~e · an. dent' of the Graduate Student 
dent for Public Relations and pto fipnd the naJ'ority opinion but the tickets for the bleachers, whtle of ticket dtstnbution wtll be an-U . N K M t 'd t 
' · · · d h rtt Lett will be mon· ancy Aprest. tien.
Development, said that the number committee decided that it would be each advanced degree rectptent ts nounce s o Y. ers f th ' Stud t . B oa e of tickets available for distribution t 0f time eligible for two tickets in the upper sent to parents of undergraduates 0 e en ar . ssoct~ on, was determined by the number of a was e • · th h' _ section. The bleachers will not be and to recipients of advanced Darlene ~· Palma, VIce prestdent
Gassman explamed at ts con . . . . th ti of the semor class· and Robert G
graduates expected to attend and Cern Stemmed from conversations reserved by seat. Seating wtll be degrees explammg e sea ng T 'd t f th' . • 
· d b · I' u11y, prest en o e semor c ass.
the number of seats available in the with fellow seniors, all of whom on a first-come, first-serve asts. po tcy. 1 arena. had already made reservations for The size of this year's graduating and invited more than five people class (2,177, the largest in history), to graduation. 
Roemer, bar owners react 
coupled with the increased interest Although plans have already expected because of President been made to hold the (:eremonies Carter's presence, resulted in the in the ACC, when asked about the 

to nuisance complaints
need for tickets, Murphy explain­possibility of still holding com­ed. · He said . that an outdoor mencement outside, G~Lssman re­ceremony had been discussed, but plied, "If a bunch of students by Katie Kerwin was discarded because of the petition, who knows?" News Editor uncertain weather and the necess­Gassman emphasized, however 
Dean of Students James A.
ity of issuing tickets anyway for that students' worries about South 
Roemer warned students that a
alternate indoor exercises. Bend residents coming to hear 
crack-down on underage drinking
Student Body President Mike Carter speak were unfounded. The 
in local bars may result from the
Gassman, one of the students general public will not be invited to 
rash of recent complaints about
consulted by the committee, said the ceremonies, nor will seats be 
noise, litter and other public nuis­
that he was concerned about the available for spouses and children 
ances in the Eddy-Corby bar area.
shortage of tickets and had sug­of faculty or professio11tal staff of 
"Those who are underage had
gested that commencement be held the University. 
better-be careful," Roemer cau­
in the stadium, weather-permit­The only groups allocated seats 
tioned, adding that he was not
tin~. His olan called for tickets to apart from graduates' families and trying to restrict students' activi­ties and only wanted to warn them that they may be running increased 
St. Mary's candidates Sl'eak 
risks of arrest in the next few months.
at Student Govt. Forum 
Increasing arrests of underage faces. bar patrons would be one way to
by EHeen Lynch 

"We know we're Jess f:xperienc· make it difficult for bar owners ed than our opposition but we hope when they try to renew their yearly 
The St. Mary's Student Govern­to bring a new attitude to Student liquor licenses. Local citizens' ment sponsored a forum Thursday Government," Hedges said. groups, tired of battling the noisenight for the two tickets running for Their main goal, if elected, is to and the trash, may put pressure onstudent body offices A handful of change the attitude and concerns of police to enforce the drinking age..:~tudents attended and met the the student body. 
law more carefully, Roemer indi­
~andidates in an informal discus­"We want to make Student cated, which could mean more 
s;on of the role of Student Dean james A. Roemer discussed yesterday the possibility that
Government a more service orien-raids on student-frequented bars. 
Government. stricter enforcement of the legal drinking age will be the result of 
ted organization beneficial to the An arrest for a liquor violation
Mary Rukavina, a junior in neighborhood complaints about conduct of bar customers.
South Bend community, not only could cause a student considerable LeMans, is running for student St. Mary's," Rukavina stated. inconvenience, if nothing worse, ''This is not a problem that has basketball game. He stressed thatbody president. Her ticket mates ''The more activities we have and Roemer said he hoped stu: just come up,'' Kanser pointed out. mutual consideration between stu­are Cathy Hedges and Kathy encompassing more of the outside dents would consider the possibili­"It has always been a sore point dents and residents is necessary.
O'Connell, both sophomores, run­world, the more students we can ty and consequences of arrest with the people in the neighbor-"The community is very interested!''ng for 'vice-president ot academ­get involved. An increase in inter­before going the the South Bend hood." Kanser said that the whole in the welfare of Notre Dame!~ affairs and 'vice-president of' est and activities will inc:rease the bars. burden for the problem should not students," he said. 
.student affairs;, respectively. 
pride we have in ourselves and St. 
Roemer said he has received 1 be placed on the bar owners and "A small percentage of theThe opposing ticket is headed by Mary's." 
complaints about the behavior of that students should have a sense student body is earning a badMaryann Stolze for president, ac­Chin expressed a similar concern Notre Dame students returning of responsibility for the neighbor-reputation for Notre Dame stu­companied by Terease ~hi~!-for 
and stressed the idea of not giving from local bars. Arthur Quigley, hood when they go out to the bars dents," Quigley maintained.
vice-president of' academtc aftatrs up with one attempt at something president of the Northeast Neigh­to drink. Bar owners should not be "Noise is probably even greater asand Joann Baggina for vice-presi­new. "Sometimes you think you're borhood Association and an assoc­held responsible. for the actions of a source of annoyance to thedent of student affairs;. 
doing something everyone is inter­iate professor of electrical engin­customers after they leave the bar, community than trash," he contin­Rukavina, Hedges and O'Con­ested in but then it fails. The eering at Notre Dame, sent a letter Kanser stated. ued. A large percentage of thenell hope to bring new ideas and (continued o11t page 10) about the situation to Roemer. A large part of the problem, neighborhood is senior citizens who new involvement, along with new 
Quigley invited student leaders according to Kanser, is that there is have trouble sleeping already or to come to association meetings to no law that prohibits customers are people who have to get up earlydiscuss the problems and suggest­from leaving the bars with drinks in in the morning to go to work. Trash ed that a student group could be their hands. Kanser said he hopes also poses a bigger problelm for established with co-ordinated train­an ordinance will be passed to senior citizens, who can't go out ing by the South Bend Police and correct the problem. and clean it up for themselves. Student Government to keep an eye We're not planning to do any-Quigley said he would favor on the area. Quigley noted that thing drastically different from stricter enforcement of the 21-year­between 1:30 a.m. and 4 a.m. on what we've been doing. Co-opera-old drinking age. "They should Friday, Saturday, and Sunday are tion between customers and the arrest any underage drinkers be­the most critical times, but added neighborhood is what is needed," cause that's the law. If there's that clean-up could also be done Kanser said. "We're more than illegal operation, it should be early the next morning. willing to help on this sort ofthing," gotten rid of," he declared. 
Mike Casey, student body vice­he concluded, offering to open Quigley -did not directly relate president, has organized groups of kegs for volunteer crews who come arrests of underage drinkers with 
-people to clean up the bars area, to clean up the area. the problem of nuisances to the Roemer said. Students have been Quigley disagreed with Kanser's community caused by bar patrons,raking and picking up cups and claim that the area around the but he said that "if noise and trash other trash. Library is kept litter-free. "Kanser stop, complaints to the police
Rick Kanser, owner of the Libra­has promised to clean up around would stop and there would be no ry, said that he pays local high the Library. Right in front of the more arrests.'' school and elementary school stu­building is clear, but that's all<," Division Chief Donald Foy of the dents to clean up the area around Quigley asserted. South Bend Police Department told his tavern, in accordance with Quigley expressed gratitude to the Observer that he couldn't say agreements made between bar the senior volunteers who cleaned what action the department
A handful of St. Mary's students came to listen to candidates for 
owners and neighborhood leaders
student body offices as a forum last night. up in the neighborhood after the (continued on page 10).
last year. weekend of the San Francisco 


.... 
?_ ______ the obser_y_er___ Friday, March 25, 1977 
On Campus Toda~} 
friday, march 25  
8  am--confere nce,  indiana  academy  of  religion  
conference  on  "material  scarcity  and  the  human  

prospect," madeleva hall. 9 am -6 pm--fencing championships, ace fieldhouse. 
12:15 pm--travelogue, "peace corps in the philip­pines" by cody best, sponsored by bio. dept., rm 278 biology aud. galvin life science building. 
1 pm -4 pm--bike storage pickup, gate 14 stadium. 
5:15 pm--mass and dinner, bulla shed. 
7 pm--bible study, "how can you know the bible as the word of god?", sponsored by campus crusade for christ, library lounge. 
7:30 & 10 pm, film, "oliver" sponsored by regina hall council, regina hall. $1. 
8 pm--drama, "clarence darrow" by david rintels, washington hall. 
8 pm--musical, "applause" performed by pat allen, benefit for the retarded, little theater. gen. adm $5, patrons $10. 
8 pm--concert, electric light orchestra, ace. bleacher seats $5.50 
12:15 am -2 am--nocture nightflight, wsnd-fm 88.9, joe viola and jazz. 
saturday, march 26 

9 am -6 pm--fencing championships, ace. 
9 am--national client counseling competition, law bldg. 1:30pm--lacrosse, nd vs. miami of ohio. 
7:30 & 10 pm--film, "oliver," regina hall. 
8 pm--drama, "clarence darrow" by david rintels, wash. hall. 8 pm--musical, "applause," little theater. 
12:15 am-2 am--nocturn nightflight, wsnd-fm 88.9, jorge lopez and best in progressive music. 
sunday 

1 pm--workshop, leadership workshop by tom reed, sponsored by volunteer services, library lounge. 1:30pm--lacrosse, nd vs. purdue. 1:30pm--clinic, cheerleading candidates, ace pit. 
7 pm--slide show, sierra club intra., Iafortune aud. 8 pm--lecture, "women in theology" by sister emily rabalais, sponsored by theology dept., library aud. 
8 pm--recital, faculty piano recital by nils vigeland, 
little theater. 8 pm--film, "toni" by jean renoir, sponsored by nd-smc theater, carroll hall. 
8:15 pm--concert, nd glee club, wash. hall. 
12:15 am -2 am--nocture nightflight, wsnd-fm 88.9, ted twardzick, best in progressive. 
(*The Observer1 
"The Last Stand" 
Night Editor: Bye-Bye Bob Brink Ass't Night Editor: Katie Kerwin (going, going ... ) Rose­mary Mills (the one remain­ing) Layout Staff: Vickie Blankert (new member), Leigh Tunakan (been around before) Editorial Layout: Drew Bauer (same old Drew) Features Layout: · Dave· 0' Keefe (so that who he is'). Drew Bauer (th1s· i~ monoton­ous!) Sports Layout: L. Anthony Pace (change of----) Typists: Marianne Corr, Sue Shellenbarger, Cwen Cole­man, Mary McCormick EMT: Tern Harlan Day Editor: Jack C C,ilh,lVy Copy Reader: R<~y () llrH·n ( c onvPrt), Don l~f'llllPr (rd lr­Pd) Ad Layout: Mi'\IIJg 111 de t1on Photographer: I>on11nic k Yc,r llh vr,llc·vhall hu'.!l<·r 
ND to offer research program 
Notre Dame will offer a 10-week undergraduate research 'program this summer for college sopho­mores and juniors in engineering and science. 
Each participant will receive a tax-free stipend of $900 through the program, which is sponsored by the National Science Foundation. The project will involve indepen­dent research in energy-related fields and will begin June 6. The deadline for application is April 8. 
The program is particularly suit­ed to area students who attend schools other than Notre Dame, but who wish to broaden their training -wh'ile at home during the summer, according to Dr. K.T. Yang. chair­m<trl of Notre Dame·~ Department of Acro~pace and Mechanical Engineering and program director. 
Interested students may contact Yang a! Hoom .10h Engineering Huild111g. 




C~ommittee searches for achiever 
by Jean Powley student for the award. 
before April 4. Letters containingSt. Mary's Editor According to the letter, the specific statements in support of a 
purpose of the medal is to honor "a 
nomination will be given the great­St. Mary's Committee of Aca­superior student in her second or est weight in the committee'sdemic Standards is currently in third year at St. Mary's who, in the deliberations.
search of a recipient for its recently opinion of the Committee Aca­on Plans for the award's presenta­re-established Saint Catherine's demic Standards, exemplifies the tion have not yet been decidedMedal. an undergraduate achieve­high ideals of Catholic education upon, but it will definitely occurment award. 
for undergraduate women. Scholar­
near the close of the academic year,The medal. which is sponsored ship and service to the church, possibly during the senior convoca­by Kappa Gamma Pi. the National 
college , and civic communities are 
tion brunch, Mandell said.

Catholic Honor Society, had for 
criteria for the award.'' many hears been awarded annually Although the recipient will be a 
to an outstanding sophomore or "good" student, there is no specif­
ERRATUM
junior until students' lack of inter­
ic grade-point requirements, ac­est in awards caused its discontin­
cording to Gail Mandell, vice Brian Regan, assistant to the uance in 1970. However, a signifi­
president of academic affairs. Also, 
president for College Relations at 
cant change in students' attitudes 
nominees do not have to be of the 
St. Mary's, has stated that 122prompted the committee to request Catholic faith. · persons have applied for the posi­the medal's re-establishment this 
Nominating letters should be 
tion of Director of Publications, not 
year. 
sent to the committee in care of 
22 as stated in yesterday's Obser­Letters explaining the award 
Gail Mandell, 134 Lemans Hall, ver. were sent to all students, faculty, and staff members earlier this week, inviting them to nominate a 
:_ TIMM PARTY STORE : 
· 1tw Ob"·rwr " pubiJo,hpcJ Monday throu~h 1 ndav and v..<>Pklv ciurmg 
:oPEN: MON-SAT 9 am-II pm!
tlw ,ummer '><'"Jon. pxu·pl dunng thP ex.u11 dnd \d< atlon pPnocio; The 
: SUNDAY I2 noon-II pm •
Obwrwr " puhl "he·ci bv o;tuciPnh of tlw Unl\••r'it\ ol Notrt· Darn<' and 
• 
St Mar\ , Cnlft>g<• Subscnption> 
! COLD BEER., PACKAGE UQUOR,!
rlld\ rw pun h.I ,pcJ lor $2(1 ]l<'r yPar ($10 p..-r "'nw.. tPr) !rom 1hP Ob'><'r 
•

: WINE., GOURMET FOODS 
wr. Box Q NotrP Danw, fndJana 
• 
4b~C,6 ~wwnci tla.,, poo,tagP pa1d, Notn• DamP. tndJdna 4b~)h 

! 3II4 S. II ST. NILES., MICIDGAN: 
ThP ()bq•rwr I'> a nwmbPr of the A,.,oc Jdtt>d PrP'>'> All n•product1on 
• 1 Block North of state line on U.S. 31 • 
rrghh an• rP"i.PrvPrl 


20TH CENTURY-FOX PRESENTS 

A. RALPH BAKSHI FILM 

SHOW TIMES 
FRIDAY LIMITED 6:45-8:30-10:10 ENGAGEMENT Color by De Luxe"' SAT & SUN




Ll\t 

sTARTs I ift).r•• tt:llt I'J--;:; ra:•l t:45-3:2o-s:oo­TONIGHT • >\ lf!J ., \ tp!J\J 'tJ' ~ 6:45-8:30-10:10 
1.Mi1e North of NOTRE DAM F. ::ln U.S. 31 North Just South of NORTH VILLAGE M/ILL • (219) 277-1522 
From Ralph Bakshi, master of animation, comes an epic fantasy in wondrous color. 
A vision of the world, 10 million years in the future, where Wizards rule the earth. And the powers of magic prevail over the forces of technology in the final battle for world supremacy. 



Lewis Hall will provide accommodations for all alumni vacationing on the campus this summer as part of the Alumni Family Hall operation_. ' 
Academic Code amendment endorsed by Faculty Senate 
by Maureen Flynn Editorial Editor 

A proposed amendment to the Academic Code that would allow students 20 class days to decide to take a course pass-fail or for credit was endorsed last night by the Faculty Senate. 
The proposal was drawn up by the student representatives to the Academic Council and presented to the Senate Committee on Student Affairs. The current deadline for a decision is registration day, but the Registrar has been accepting chan­ges through the first ten class days. 
The students' amendment will be presented to the Academic Council at its next meeting. 
The student affairs committee reported to the Senate that the proposal would "allow the student to make a more realistic judgment on the nature and quality of the course." The committee noted that the "present pass-fail arrangement does not seem to achieve its objective: to encourage people to get out of their field and explore other areas." 
Records from the Registrar, dis­tributed by the student affairs committee, show that 423 out of 752 students who exercised the pass-fail option last semester, used it in courses outside of their college. 
Business students used the op­tion most often, usually for courses in other colleges. Arts and Letters students used it more than science and engineering students, but only 36 out of 275 took pass-fail courses outside of the colle~e. 
Student Affairs Committee chair­man Fr. Oaude Pomerleau said his committee was investigating ave­nues for more contact between faculty and students outside the classroom. He noted that the hall fellows program is still in use in many of the women's halls, but that only one men's hall is involv­ed. 
• Prof. William Biles, Senate vice­chairman and a faculty representa­tive to the Student Life Council, said that the SLC's involvement with issues concerning hall life has indicated a ''failure of faculty to participate in that aspect of Univer­sity life." 
Prof. Rufus Rauch said that his years as a hall fellow were "one of the most delightful and rewarding experiences I've ever had." 
Appeals procedure approved 

The Senate also approved five amendments to the Faculty Hand­
. 

mittee provide the Senate with a
breakdown of average faculty salar­ies by rank for teaching and research faculty of each college, for library faculty, for special research faculty and for special professional faculty. 
The proposal also requested a breakdown of salaries within each college "when there occurs a significant variance between the scale in one of its divisions and that in another, provided such a disclos­ure does not imperil the <:onfident­iality of a department'~• budget


r-----...--.,
f Friday & Saturday ff 9-12p.m. f 
f $1.00 off lg. piz:za f $ .50 off sm. pizza ft (not for takeouts) 
t LOUIE's t 
' ' 
f f
Wed. & Thurs. 

t 25° BEER t 
f 10 p.m. to midniite f 
~~.-.~~~~~ 
' ' ' 
book presented by its committee on 
Faculty Affairs. One amendment 
would require that a faculty mem­
ber be notified by his dt:partment 
chairman when he is und~~r consid­
eration for appointment or promot­
ion. 
Two amendments would provide an appeals procedure if either the faculty member or his depart­ment's Committee on Appoint­ments and Promotions (CAP) "be­lieves that inadequate p1rocedures or criteria were applied in reaching a decision..." 
In either case, the College Coun­cil would select a Review Commit­tee of five tenured members, none of whom would be from the department involved. The commit­tee would decide if the case merited further investigation and report its findings and rationale to the individual, the CAP, the de­partment chairman, the dean and the provost. 
Another amendment would allow the department faculty to make nominations for the position of .chairman and to vote on the final list of nominees. If the President appointed someone other than the department faculty's choice, he would have to provide r1~asons to 
the department for his de:cision. 
The Senate approved a resolu­tion presented by its Committee on Administration, requesting that the University Budget Priori1jes Com-allocation or of an individual's salary." 
'Healthy openness' 

Committee Chairman James 
Robinson said the proposal would 
help "eliminate paranoia" where it 
exists and contribute to a ''healthy 
openness" between faculty and 
administration. 
Prof. James Dougherty added 
that "the .Senate will need this r-::==-=::-:::::-::==-::::-:-::-::-::......-:---------------, 
information if it is to make any ~JiUD·rur IIIUJO·IU DDfSENTS 
useful recommendations to the ~ ~n un. n rn1 ••••• Budget Priorities Committee." • , JACK NICHOLSON 
Robinson noted that the informa-· tion will also be useful as a 

0 Fl-0 
measurement to faculty members ne ew ver 
who have possibilities elsewhere. In other action, the Senate voted 
The Cuckoo's Nest 
to reopen its study of faculty retirement. Its ad hoc committee on ~­
retired faculty dissolved last year. g1gineering Auditorium The new study will be conducted by MAR. 25 & 26 7 9 &11 
the standing Committee on Faculty ~~~~~~-=--....:.:::..:.:~~~~!!...~~-!!J.~~~~~~~~~-1 
Affairs and initiated this semester. 
Biles, chairman of an ad hoc committee on the eight a.m. exam­ination policy, reported that 299 out of 1400 student questionnaires and 278 out of 600 faculty question­naires pertaining to the policy were returned. His committee is working with a group of interested students. 
Proposals by Prof. W. Phillip Helman on the sections of the Faculty Handbook dealing with Special Professional Faculty were referred to the Senate's faculty affairs committee for considera-·


lliiliii•••••••••••llliiiii 
ND-SMC SENIOR CLASS PRESENTS 
A TIME TO REMEMBER Senior Formal '77 
Friday, April 15 
Ballroom Conrad Hilton Hotel
' 

Chicago, Ill BIDS ON SALE NOW LA FORTUNE BALLROOM AND LE MANS LOBBY 2-4 pm 

COST $35 plus Transportation $1 0 Deposit Required Remainder Due By ·April 7 
Friday, March 25, 1977 the observer 

Alumni Family Hall planned for summer 
by Chris Datzman Senior Staff Reporter 

"Instead . of taking the children to a crowded beach resort or a costly country villa, why not enjoy the scenic beauty and outdoor vitality of Our Lady's campus?" 
With this description from a brochure sent out last week by the Alumni Association, some 57,000 alumni have been invited to spend their summer vacations here at Notre Dame. According to the brochure, for just $10 a night an alumnus and spouse can enjoy all of the comforts of resort living: golf, tennis and swimming. Two children can be accomodated in another double for an extra $3 charge. In addition to these are the many cultural events sponsored by the Notre Dame Summer Session and O'Shaugnessy Art Gallery. 
Accomodations are provided in Lewis Hall, which according to the descriptions is "situated on a picturesque mall extending· from the University Administration ­Building to St. Joseph's Lake." The hall is only a "short distance across manicured lawns" to the high points on campus: the Rockne Memorial, the Memorial Library and the Bookstore. 
Though meals are not included in the lodging fee, "modestly priced meals are available in the Oak Room of the South Dining Hall or the elegant Morris Inn." 
For entertainment, alumni and their families may want to venture into South Bend for an evening or two. There will be packets avail­able at the Hall containing a list of recommended restaurants, movie theaters, and shopping malls. 
Beginning its second season of operation, the Alumni Family Hall provides graduates with an oppor­tunity to visit the campus at a time other than football or ·basketball weekends. Last summer the Lewis Hall housed some 1100 people who stayed an average of five days each. 
The response was so overwhel­ming last year, that John N. Cackley, director of the Alumni Association, is predicting another great tourist season this year. "We may have to turn some people away during peak periods this summer," he said. "We just sent out the brochures last week and already we have reservations sent back." 
Cackley explained that the sum­mer program is not primarily a money making event. Though the Association did not incur a debt with the project last year, any profits went back into the Alumni budget to start off the year. 
Cackley added that if the sum­mer was a hot one, vacationers might want to bring a small window fan since Lewis Hall is not air conditioned. 
Presently the summer program 
is restricted to graduates of Notre 
Dame and their families. Under­

graduate students must be content 
with Notre Dame as a winter 
resort. 

the observer Friday, March 25, 1977 
~--------------~------~---­


Clinics held tOr prospective cheerleaders 
by Diane WDson 

Anyone interested in trying out for cheerleading must report to the ACC "pit" Sunday, March 27 from 1:30-5:30 p.m. for the first clinic 
At the clinic -women will be taught two dances and men will work on tramp stunts. Another clinic will be held Monday, March 28 but attendance is not required. 
Wednesday night the first cut will be made. There will be at least six judges present from the South Bend area. None of the judges will be connected with Notre Dame or St. Mary's. The prospective judges include dance and gymnastic teachers. 
The first cut will narrow the field to 15 men and 15 women. The finalists will have another practice session Thursday where the women will learn another dance and the men will learn more tramp stunts. 
On Friday, all the finalists will have a personal interview with the judges. These judges will not necessarily be the same as the ones for the first cut, Assistant Director of Student Activities John Reid explained. The reasons for the personal interview according to Reid are that while the actual job of the cheerleader is cheering, anoth· er important aspect is public 
Less than expected 
WASHINGTON AP-The Carter administration recommended yes­terday that the minimum wage be increased 20 cents an hour as of July 1, 50 cents short of the proposal by the AFL-CIO. 
The ~ministration also propos­ed that the minimum wage be tied in the future to a set percentage of average manufacturing wages. 
Labor Secretary Ray Marshall told a House Labor Standards subcommittee that the Carter Ad­ministration proposes increasing the $2.30 an hour to minimum wage of$2.50 an hour as of July l. 
The administration also propos­ed that beginning each July after July 1, 1978, the minimum wage be set at 50 percent of the average straight-time, hourly wages of manufacturing workers. This pro­posal is known as indexing. 
The AFL-CIO had recommended 
a $3.00-an-hour minimum wage 
immediately upon enactment of the 
bill with the indexing beginning 
January 1, 1978 at 60 percent of the 
average manufacturing worker's 
wage. 
Labor lobbyists in the crowded 
hearing room appeared shocked by 
the Marshall proposals and one 
lobbyist for the garment workers 
remarked that "labor might have 
backed the wrong candidate," a 
reference to labor's support of 
President Carter. 
Marshall said the administra­
tion's proposal would eliminate the 
wage differential between employ­
ees who have been covered in 
stages by the minimum wage act. 
He said the administration would 
support the concept of indexing 

Theology women discuss ministry 
The Notre Dame Women in Theology will hold their third response to the declaration : Women in the Ministerial Priest· hood on Sunday, March 27. The session will be held in the Memori­al Library Auditorium at 8 p.m. A short film from the 1975 Women's Ordination Conference in Detroit is scheduled, followed by an informal session in the Library Lounge with women in ministerial positions from South Bend. 

relations work. The personal inter­tionals, chants, guys' dances and view will count approximately ten the personal interview. pe:r cent in the final judging. 
For the final cut Reid hopes toOn Saturday, April 1, the final have cheerleaders from nearbycult will be made. Tryouts will be colleges such as Michigan Statefrom 10 a.m.-3 p.m., and the and Indiana University for judgesch•eerleading squad for 1977-78 will but nothing is definite yet.
be named at 3 p.m. 
As of now, Reid is expectingAt the same time as the cheer­approximately 40 women and 20leader tryouts will be tryouts for men to fill the 10 vacant spaces.
the 1977-78 Leprechaun. Any He stated that there could be veryinterested male under 5'7" should the people trying out go through. He described it as "unbelievable" and "strenuous." 
An informational meeting was held last night for anyone interes­ted in cheerleading. If anyone was not able to attend and is interested, they should contact either Sue Olin 1631 or Pat Bergin 3454, co-cap­tains of the 1977-78 cheerleading squad. 
easily as many as 75 girls and 35 ,-------------­
report to the first clinic to learn the 
guys when the time comes to
routines necessary for tryouts. 
actually try out. 
SHAKESPEARE'S 

For the first cut, women will be 
ALIVE & W.ELL& 

Reid stressed that spectators
judged on partner stunts, dances 
LIVING IN

were welcome for the two session
(two), optionals, chants, and jumps 
when cuts will be made. HP said 
AMERICA

(two). The men will be judged on 
everyone should see the wo~k that
partner stunts. ~ymnastics, op-
SUNDAY MASSES (Main Church) 

Carter proposes wage! increase 
5:15p.m. Sat. Rev. Robert Griffin, C.S.C. 
9:30a.m. Sun. Rev. Joseph Carey, C.S.C. 
ly published intervals,'' Marshall
future minimum wage increases to 
10:45 a.m. Sun. Rev. Edward Kilmartin, S.J. 
''eliminate the irregular pattern said. 
12:15 p.m. Sun. Rev. William Toohey, C.S.C.
The AFL-CIO had testified ear­
which has characterized the history 
lier that the minimum wage would
of minimum wage adjustments. 
Vespers will be at 7:15 pm in Lldy Chapel.
have to be $2.65 right now to cover
"It would enable the business 
the inflation that has reduced the 
The celebrant will be Rev. Edward Kilmartin, S.J.
community to more accurately an­
value of the dollar since the last 
There will be a Lenten Homily by
ticipate and adjust its wage costs 
series of staggered increases in the
by providing a system for increa­
Professor William Storey. 
minimum wage began. 
sing the minimum wage at regular-

diagonally, but are always in a s.traight line. The first one has been circled. to get you· going. Your challenge is to discover and circle the other nineteen! 

WVARJX BCYPHOTDOG MDEPCOUANPLF MAKPIZZAMUOUHT EROWGONPSVPIDS YUJDOMECOANCHI PS THNZAKYFTACOSBAB XACW~DSI AVERUBGE SHR IMPASTHPNRQH I TTHGSEEHOQAJPBEK OCELNAGNCHEESETM ZAYABNRCHXTCWETP V E U K U U H I F Z T G F I HHRXTB I PTERAQJ AKPSMPSALAMI MLNASMKSNA RHFCJO 
When there's a challenge, quality makes the difference. 
We hope you have some fun with the challenge. 
There's another challenge we'd like to offer you, too. 
The Pabst challenge: 
We wedcome the chance to prove the quality of 
our beer. We challenge you to taste and compare Pabst Blue Ribbon to any other premium beer. You'll like Pabst better. Blue Ribbon quality means the best tasting beer you can get. Since 1844 it always has. 
PABST. Since 1844. The quality has always come through. 
lf.-l'H/ 1'/\t\',1 lUll Wltll,l.l JMI'I\fl r M•lw,ml-o•o· W•·· l'o•t~n,,llo•lqllr·. Ill IJo•w.ul< tJ I I"'· 1\11'1"1'·', 1.• 1hl 1'.•1•'•1 I,,.,,,,,,, 
[(Jftii'IM I•. ' ' ' . 1111/I'•Vd',V'JVII',f))Vt···lll 
[t V; lltJLJ', ,.JIIIJIJII,II .dlllrlj)JII"JdV'JIIIII',Ait!HIII tll>ltllll 111\lrl!lll fJ)Htl 
• Jd lid "'VIt'. Ht'JHtt\111\JVII ',lf/1 Pl·l tV"IJVIV', l'·llttr • • .rlltl!tlVIfrol •,ttlrJvl.t 

-~ ---~----------~--~-­
*The Observer 
an independent student newsp.1per serving notre d.1me .1nd st. m<~ry's 
The Observer is published by students of the University ot Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. . It does not necessarily reflect the policies of either mst1tut1on The news is reported as accurately and . as obJeCtively as possible. Editorials represent the op1111on of a majonty of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions and letters are the views of their authors. Column space 1s available to all members of the community, and letters are encouraged to promote the free express1on of varymg opinions on campus. 
Box QBusiness Manager Sue Quigley Notre DameAdvertising Manager Steve Bonomo Ind. 465j6Production Manager Karen Chiames 

EDITORIAl BOARD 
Marti Hogan Editor-in-Chief Martha Fanning Managing Editor Bob Brink Asst. Managing Ed. 'Kathy Mills Executive Editor Maureen Flynn Editorial Editor Barb Breitenstein Exec. News Editor Tom Byrne Campus Editor Jean Powley St. Mary's Editor Katie Kerwin News Editor Paul Stevenson Sports Editor Pat Cole Special Projects Ed. David O'Keefe Features Editor 
Copy Editor. Barb Langhenry 
Photo Editor Paul Clevenger 
Friday, March 25, 1977 





P.O. Box Q 
Editor's Note: A letter in Wed· nesday's editorial page headlined "ND· A Sick Community" was written by Steve Salimando last October. In the confusion of The Observer transition, the letter was apparently misfiled in the current letters folder. Mr Sailmando feels that many of his comments in that letter are no longerappropriate. We apologize to him for the error. 
Prof. -Plati mustgo! 

Dear Editor: 
No matter .what the charge. ,no matter whether he is innocent or guilty, Professor Enrico F. Plati should be suspended immediately. It would be inconsistent with Notre Dame policy and precedent not to do so. 
Remember those four students last year who were arrested of drug charges? Long before ~h~y e~er came to trial. the Admtmstratwn saw fit to judge their guilt by "suspending" them from the U­niversity pending the outcome of the trial. Where is that same moral self-righteousness now? Does it not equally apply to Prof. Plat_i? Or i~ it that there is one dictatonal. whtp­cracking policy for students, and another. more benevolent one. for others? 
I personally would like to see a benevolent policy for everyone. not just a chosen few. 
Gar.'· Makowski 

Editor's Note: Three students were suspended by Dean of Stu· dents last April when they were arrested on charges of possession 
and deliwry of a  controlled  sub­ 
stance.  
•  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  


Parents' income misleadling 

Dear Editor: 
Your article "ND Parents' Med­ian Income Rises" (3·1·77) is misleading. The Consumer Price Index ratio for 1976 compared to 1972 was 1.334. Thus if the national median freshman family income is 1972 was $15,000, we would expect it to be $20,000 in 1976, which it of course is. If the Notre Dame freshman family inc·ome was $20,000 in 1972 dollars, it would be $26,7000 in 1976 dollars just due to "dollar-devaluation." The actual 1976 figure of $27,800 indicates that Notre Dame families are $1,100 ahead of inflation--wealth· ier, but not nearly so much as your article implies. 
V. P. Kenny 

Don't you make enough $$$$$$$? 
Dear Editor: 
I recently had a lock that I owned 
The thing that bothers me is not the loss of my lock but the penny ante schemes this University has to make money. Doesn't the ACC make enough money on basketball games. hockey games and a thou­sand and one conventions? The weight room is frequently closed because of car shows, RV shows, trailer shows, antique helicopter shows. You name it, they have it. Thev destroy my property so I can leas~ theirs. There is something unethical about the whole thing, financially sound but a real ream­ing anyway. 
You would think the people who think these things up could put their work force to better use than making them play AI Monday with my lock. 
Robbie McKillop 


Protect that flag! 
Dear Editor: 
I would like to publicly that the five Notre Dame men who helped "psych-up" the Irish crowd, and also protected the "leprechuan" from flag-stealing "Dutchmen" at the Notre Dame-Hofstra game. These men showed that spirit that is uniquely "Fightin' Irish", and all who witnessed it were proud of 
their efforts. Thanks again, men. You were a great help! 
Joe Cosgrove 
• '"'""""'""',...,,.,~ . ·.. ···. . :­
~· 
'1

• 7:;'""''""""· . .• \'fyP• · ·'({': }'; .~,/, i .~W:1 ..-aL.:.-· ::-; : ~-,
• .•:}fl · · · 
• • 
•
• 
• 
• ' 
· 4

• \P' 
• ~lfCN{I '\ /.. 
. 
• ~fl"l·AAA'I'\t ..·-1!._ ·,· ~1..11~c .' •• 9' -.,_'..
• I 
'~ . 
~ ­
-

DOONESBURY by Garry Trudeau 
Sfl&4KING ATA Sf't3CIAL fJ/i?£95 

60(){)&VeNING. CONffll?ENC£ LASTN/6Hl; THcSCC­PRCSIPCNTCA!<TCR'S RUARY-Ct3516NifltANNOUNceD NOM/Nee FOR SCC-He t«JUW ~H0/..I)(N6 R£6UtAR 
. I?&TARY OF 5YM80/..ISM, PHON&-A-THONS 70ASK AV~ OUAN& !JelACOURT, HAs AM/3RJCANS M1tTTSYMBaS lH!iY GOTWJOFF 7lJ A IUOfiiJ) MOSTt/K£ "£J seeIN 71115 RJJNNIN6 START. CAI?TCI< A/JiffiNIS~}~ 
1 
llJPAYf)(JANe /JCUIC/X/QHW HIS FIRSTSIKH PHONli-A-m:JN 1/NO NBC Ne/1/S 
tt/45 7llfiRf5.. ?
f H&L.LO. 

/ ~~n 

seriousIy foIkSiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 
A world that doesn't exist 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiart buchwaId 
WASHINGTON -Dr. Heinrich Applebaum has just completed a study on the effects of television on children. In his case, though. he wasn't concerned with violence, but how television gives children a false sense of reality. 
Pr. Applebaum told me, "The greatest danger of television is that it presents a world to children that doesn't exist. and raise expecta· tions that can never be fulfilled. 
"I don't understand, Doctor," I said. 
"Well, let me cite on example. Have you ever seen a television show where a person in an automo­bile doesn't immediately find a parking place on the very first try?" 
"Come to think of it," I said, "I haven't." 
"Not only is there always a parking spot available but the driver doesn't even have to back into it. There are two parking spaces available whenever some­one in a TV show needs one. Children are being led to believe that when they grow up they will 
cut off by the nice men who work in ..-~--~ ~--, always be able to find a parking the ACC. They have a rule that the • ~y do~ t you. Write me. place when and where they want it. locks and lockers must be rented II m out 10 the Jungle, Can you imagine the trauma when from _the ~CC. .I had been in the II'm hungry to hear you... 1they discover that in real life you 
practice of luggtng my gear down . . can drive around a block for three to the ACC and putting my I_oc_k on I The madbag IS ~mpty, so take I hours and still not find a place to an emptv locker. I never lett It on up those pens, penctls and crayons, put your car?" overnight or even more than a few IND-SMC, and get those deep I "! never thought of it but it's hour5. thoughts down pn paper NOW! 1 true. What else do they show on 
··--------television which gives a distorted 
• • • ••• • • .............. picture of the real world?'' 
••• :sA~~Y,~YSCN,T iTIINK ~X.o~~ I SHOJW HAVE PRAcncw-~~·Y~AGO!u •. ,,,;;,~';~~;\~t~.:,~;u,,;:;'\1 •• /,::~~, ·~;·~~~:::·
I~ r1=7\ _ vour car Nu la\1 dtt\t'r :-. 111 ;i ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• ;nomltolPIIm\ .tth>tlt,·t '·' 
'•t.'\.lli .. t" 

"Have vou noticed that when· · • e\er a ch.aracter walks out of a --· ~ 8 re~taurant or office huilr:ling or 
-• apartment and says to the door­
• 
man. 'Get me a taxi.· the taxi 

• 
Immediately arrive~'? Millions of d1ildren are under the Impression that all a doorman has to do i~ blO\\


•

• his whistle and a taxi will be there. I have never seen a show where the 
: doorman ha-; sa1d. 'I'm sorry. I · can't get vou a taxi. 'r ou better 
• 
take the bus.· " "Of course." I said. "I never 

• 
knew before what bothered me 

• 
about those TV action programs. but now I do. There is always a 

• 
vellow taxi waiting offscreen." • • "NO\\," s·a1'd ApjJiehaum. "have 


\ ~ • vou ever said lo a t:L\1 driver. . ,\~" :Follow thai L·ar and dnn't lose
. 

-¥-_ him'''" 
• "Not rv;tll' 
that means he's going to get involved. But on TV every cabdri· ver looks as if he'd like nothing better to do tha.n to drive 90 miles an hour through a rain-swept street trying to keep up with a earful of hoods. And the worst thing is that the kids believe it." 
"What else have you discov­ered?" 
"Kids have a perverted sense of what emergency wards of hospitals are really like. On TV shows they take a kid to an emergency ward and four doctors come rushing down to bandage his leg. In a real life situation the kid would be sitting on the bench for two hours before he even saw an intern. On TV there always happens to be a hospital bed available when the kid needs it. What the kids in this country don't know is that some­times you have to wait three days to get a hospital bed and then you hvae to put a cash deposit of $500 down before they give it to you." 
Applebaum said the cruelest hoax of all is when TV shows a lawyer defending someone inno· cent of a crime. 
"On the screen the lawyer spends day and night digging up the evidence to clear his client. In real life the lawyer says to the defendant, 'Look, I've got 20 minutes. Tell me your story and then I'll plead you guilty and make a deal with the DA.' In real life the defendant might say. 'But I'm innocent.' The Iawver would sa' . ·So what? I can't aft'Ord to find rh;,t oui. I'm not Perrv Mason.·· '· 
···r hen what vo.u 're saying. llt. Applebaum. is· that it isn't :ltl' violence on TV but the fantasy that is doing harm to children." 
"E·xactlv. Even the commercials are taking· their toll. Children are led to believe that when the\· grow up if the~· use a certain nwurhwa~h thev 'II find the mate of their dream~. When thev don't tind hm1 or her after gargling all night. the~ go into a tailspin and man~ of them ne\·er come out of it.·· 
·What do vou rhinlo. i~ the h1gge't fear litt.le ~o:tr''· fo,!\ l'·.' .. 
.. I h,i\ ,. nD idea.· 
"Th,il -,omnia\ \\ ·,eJ~ thL\ get marril'<! their hu~b<~l'd' •viii h;i\t' ntH! arl'und tlll' col Ln.·· .'.\\'hal ab;,ut hm·~·•" 
'B<>\' \\lll'l'\ th:tt tltl'\·'11 unh go .. rPtln<i <>th'L' ;;, ltk ;tnd .ttw_,. \,·.,,~·1 It,,.,, .tit tht• .L!ll .tt> lllll pf thl'll' l>l'c'r lit.t( iiJL'\ d,·~L'I\ l' . 


6 the observer Friday, March 25, 1977 
letters to a lonely God 


Moderate and Reasonable 
Commandments 
Reverend Robert 1Griffin 
We were sitting at dinner in one of those expectations that parents have for their private clubs of the Eastern establishment children that are fully reasolltable, one of where the membership fees are exorbitant them being that kids not enter marriage enough to constitute a generous down­until they can finance the Ulltion by their 
payment on a Rolls-Royce, ifcars are what own resources. But I get nervous with you are in the market for instead of golf, fathers who tell me: the day my kid gets and we were speaking of children in married, my obligation to him-or her-is college. "I always told the kids," my host finished. What I dread is the shabby was saying, "that I would pick up the tab behaviour sometimes resorted to by young for their education for as long as they people in trouble who have bet:n incessant­wanted to stay in school. The only ly warned by parents: if you ge:t yourself in condition was that they stay away from a mess, don't come to us, because our marriage until after they had finished their displeasure and termination of help is part degrees. The day one of them chose to of the mess you are in. marry, I told them, he was completely on 
his own. My obligation to him was I don't approve of pre-marital sex. I finished.'' don't want to encourage it by seeming The attitude was a reasonable attitude of permissive toward it, or by sentimentaliz­
a reasonable and generous man. Lots of ing it. I don't feel it has to happen; yet it fathers have told me of malting similar does happen to men and women-of all speeches to their college-bound offspring. ages-whom I love and respect. When it Lines have to be drawn to help kids restrain happens, I, as a priest, am one of the chaps the random impulses in their bloodstreams who are looked to for healing the damages that make them fool around with over­that may have been done. My chief involvement. They can't expect to have resource is the support of the family I count their cake and eat it too. on to be compassionate allies of young "The boys all understood that while they people facing their crisis. If the family were in their college years, a wife was a won't help-or the young people think the luxury the old man wouldn't support." My family won't help-they may feel driven to host looked at me appealingly, as though to the horrors of the clinics that deal with ask if I approved of what he was saying. such emergencies as pregnancies without 
"Everything was fine until Phil got batting a judgmental eye. After that, there involved," my lady hostess interjected. comes the problem of dealing with the Phil was her youngest of six. ''I don't know emotional paralysis caused by guilt. Five what happened with Phil; he certainly priests can concelebrate a wedding, but 
wasn't raised that way, but he came to his sometimes a whole army of priests can't 
father and told him it was one of those comfort the numbness when the wedding situations where he had to get married. has been prohibited, and an unborn life is He'd been going with the girl since grade thrown away. 
school; but he wasn't raised that way -I hate being offensive. I hate seeming to neither of them was raised that way -that tell parents how to raise their children. I they should have had to get married." know nothing of being a parent, but I know 
"Madam," I wanted to say, "no child something of the extravagances of love coming from a Christian home was ever because I have learned from the example of raised that way. Wickedness or immoral a great Teacher. Love in its dealings goes 
attitudes are not a pre-condition to beyond justice and common sense. imprudent love-making. Human intimacy Mothers and fathers live the lessons of love 
unsanctified by marriage is something that for all the years they are raising their happens to people who are lonely, discour­families, but sometimes there is a father aged, fearful, or tired of struggling, or who lays down a moderate and reasonable over-excited by bubbles in th~ blood." commandment: I will support you at Notre 
"I told Phil to see the priest right away; Dame, or Princeton, or the Perkins that night, if possible," said Phil's father. Institute for the Blind, until the day of your "It was a beautiful wedding," Phil's marriage; from then on, kid, you're on your 
mother said. "There were five priests own. It has been my experience that such concelebrating. And if afterwards anyone fathers do more mischief than they are noticed that the baby came early, it was our really aware of. belief that it was none of their damned I should hate to think of making any business.'' non-negotiable demand upon any being 
"Phil still had a year and a half to go to who depends on me, whether it b(: my child get his degree in business administra­or my cocker spaniel. I should hate to think tion," my host said. "Phil said to me: 'I that young love, driven underground, lost don't know how we are going to work its innocence and became cheap, like a things out.' I told him: 'We'll manage dollar bottle of wine, because I was something.' When I told the other boys I wrathful towards the needs of either the was going to help Phil, they all said: 'That young or the loving. I know that if I had six is what makes us love you so much, sons, I would love and cherish them all. I'm Dad." He sat there in his expensive club, sure that even fathers in the Eastern and his eyes filled up with water. He was establishment. sitting in their expensive genuinely moved by the thought of his own clubs, cherish their children. Maybe the generosity and his ability to compromise on difference between being an actual father, iron-clad absolutes. Those tears made me and being a bachelor like me who only uses feel uncomfortable with annoyance. the title, is that the bachelor knows what he 
I never like to write words that are would like to give to his sons, while the critical of parents. I never want to write actual father knows what he can ask from words that encourage children to be critical his children in moderate and reasonable of their parents. I think that there are commandments. 
magnificent meals in michiana 


Mediterranean House 
tim o'reilly 

As the sun rose o'er the desert's waves disappointing; the decor, while not offen­of sand, muezzins called the people to sive, is rather mundane. Nowhere are any prayer from their lofty perches in the visual appetizers displayed of thost: intrig­minarets. The camels begin hawing, ready uing lands with mosques, casbahs, and to carry their masters, bedecked in long, oil-rich sheiks cavorting with huge harems. flowing robes, through the day's chores The background music is good, though under an unrelenting sun. All over the barely audible at some tables. However, town bazaar, shopkeepers arrange their the belly dancer that roams the dining wares in preparation for another day's room aisles on Friday and Saturday nights worth of haggling. From the tiny stands may more than compensate for any lack of and restaurants dotting the bazaar arise induced atmosphere. the exotic scents of Middle Eastern One glance at the menu, though, should cuisine, highlighted by their spices that relieve any anxieties about the Mediter­mystify foreigners. Though the desert and ranean House. With few exceptions, all bedouins had to stay behind, the Medlter-categories are filled with foreign dishes in ranean House (the brown house in front of the !3.00-!7.00 range. An interesting wine the 100 Center) dishes up Michiana's only list, including a fine Cruz Sangria ($4.00 ex~mples of sustenance from the distant per bottle), got the meal moving with the M1ddle East. ease of a sheikh spending his petrodollars. 
At tirst glance, this restaurant may seem The well did run a bit dry at the salad 


The Entertainment Week 
david okeefe 
ON THE SCREEN 
Forum 1: Wizards, a new animated fllm from Ralph Baltshi (Fritz the Cat, Heavy Traffic). The fantasy is set in the future, after a nuclear holocaust, and deals with political as well as humanistic ideas. Forum 2: Fun With Dick and Jane, a disappointing film that ruins it's occasional highlights with blatant, tasteless low­lights. Jane Fonda, George Segal. (**'h) Town and Country 1: Rocky, an uplifting rags-to-relative-riches fable from Sylvester Stallone, about a gutterbum Philly fighter 

who gets a shot at the world title. Talia Shire, Burt Young, Burgess Meredith. 
Concert: Ray Reussner, a pupil of classical 
(****) 

guitarist Andres Segovia, will present a Town and Country 2: The Town that varied program of classical music. (Little
Dreaded Sundown, a dreadful waste of Theatre, SMC, March 30, 7:30 pm) time that looks at a murder spree by a 
Cinema 77: The Stanley Kubrick Festival degenerate killer in 1946 as nothing more begins on Monday with Paths of Glory, a than an idle curiosity. (*) 1957 film starring Kirk Douglas as a WWI State: All the President's Men, a faithful French combat officer ordered by a adaptation well-executed,, marked by Machiavellian commander to lead a suicid­
superlative acting from the leads (Dustin al attack. Tuesday night, the film will be 
Hoffman and Robert Redford) all the way Dr. Strangelove, a classic film that down to the bits and pieces (Jane 
manages to be hilarious and frightening at Alexander and Ned Beatty). (***) the same time. Peter Sellers and George C. 
Boiler House 1: SUver Streak, a vainglor­Scott star in the tale of what can happenious effort by Gene Wilder and Jill when small minds in high places are givenClayburgh to extract humor from the story the potential for destruction present in the of murder on a passenger train, saved nuclear bomb. Keir Dullea and Garyregretfully late by the talents of Richard Lockwood star in Wednesday's film, 20CH: Pryor. (**Y2) A Space Odyssey, a science fiction fantasy
Boiler House 2: Carrie, a unique entry in that corresponds so vividly to elemental the horror genre from a unique filmmaker, 
human existence that it stands today as Brian dePalma, concerning a young girl perhaps the greatest piece of futurism on with telekinetic powers (Sissy Spacek) who film. The festival closes Thursday night uses them to wreak bloody vengeance on with Kubrick's adaptation of Anthonyher tormentors. (***) Burgess' novel, A Clockwork Orange. Like River Park: Network, a more satisfying the novel, the film is a compelling study of effort by Paddy Chayefsky (Hospital) at the perennial conflict between freedom and exposing the inherent decrepitude and order as epitomized in its hero, a violent villiany of capitalist institutions. Peter street punk named Alex (Malcolm Me Finch, William Holden, Faye Dunaway, Dowell). (All films except A Clockwork Robert Duvall, Ned Beatty, Beatrice Orange will be shown at 7:30 and 10:00 pm Straight are all excellent. (*** 1/2) in the Engineering Auditorium. A Clock­Scottsdale: Airport 77, the obligatory work Orange will be screened in Washing­annual entry from the airborne disaster ton Hall at 7:30 and 10:00 pm. Admission people. 
for each film is $1, free for Patron Card holders.)
ON CAMPUS 

ON THE AIR Clarence Darrow: The ND-SMC Theater/ Someone You Should Know: WSND-FM'sSecond Scene presents one of the theater interview program this week featuresgroup's most talented performers, Daniel Kreskin. The famed mentalist talks withDaily, in a one-man show about one of host Lou Brien about his life and hisAmerica's most colorful public figures, powers. (Tuesday, 10:30 pm, 88.9 FM) 
famous defense attorney Clarence Darrow. (March 25, 26, 8:00pm, Washington Hall, 
ON THE TUBE
Admission Free) One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest: Jack 
NCAASemifinals: North Carolina vs.
Nicholson won an Oscar for his perfor­Nevada-Las Vegas (Saturday, 2:00pm, 16)mance as Randall McMurphy in last year's and North Carolina-rt,;:rlotte vs. Mar­Academy Award-winning adaptation of the quette (Saturday, 4:00 pm, 16). TheKen Kesey novel. The story concerns a winners of these two games will meet toman locked in a mental hospital and the determine the new National Champion onbattle he wages with his keepers. (March Monday. (8:00 pm, 16). All games origin­25, 26, 7, 9 and 11, Engineering Auditor­ate from the Omni in Atlanta.
ium, !1) 

49th Annual Academy Awards: The fllmConcert: The Electric Light Orchestra industry applauds its own Monday night asbrings their unique brand of symphonic the Academy of Motion Picture Arts androck-electronic schlock to the ACC. (Fri­Sciences announces the winners of "Theday, 8:30pm) Oscar", the coveted statue that representsSquare Dance: Do-see-do-ing and free superiority in one of the most competitivecider will be the order of business. 
and lively fiel1s of art today. (Monday,(Saturday, 8:30pm, Stepan Center, Admis­10:00 pm, 28)sion SO 
bar, though. The variety of dishes available of bulgor wheat, I discovered its charms to 
seemed limited, with three dressings, two be like those of a dancing girl, hidden 
types of beans, potato salad, applesauce, behind veils but seductive nonetheless. 
pickles and olives. Special guest gourmet Accompanying those two excellent entrees 
(and government major) Daniel Vance was their pilaf, a rice that Mr. Sanchez 
Sanchez noted, "The lettuce is as tough as assured "would smooth over the rough 
Yasir Arafat' s beard. And the range of points of any culinary negotiations.'' If all 
policy alternatives at the salad bar does not this wasn't satisfying enough, a basket of 
seem suitable tn satisfy the interests of all unleavened, desert-hot pita bread also 
parties to this meal." Nevertheless, the came with the meal. 
potato salad and garbanzo beans held their Dessert necessitated a change to the 
own quite admirable. Grecian side of the Mediterranean. As I 
But when it came to the main course, as indulged on Mammoul ($.55), a walnut Mr. Sanchez extolled, "I believe this meal filled cookie covered with powdered sugar, offers something that can please all sides Mr. Sanchez coveted his baklava ($. 75), a of a conflict, leading to fruitful eating." pastry of walnut and honey composition. Needless to say, he was quite ecstatic He excitedly reported, "With desserts like about his entree, Sini-meat ($4.50) a slab of this to sweeten the pot, I could conclude a hamburger so large that he thought it to be peace between warring gourmets of any a mirage, covered with a sauce whose nationality." recipe is known only to the chef. "My dish, The gracious service comes with this fine especially, the sauce, is so good that even fare and fair prices and made the Golda Meir would enjoy it.'' Sini-koofta Mediterranean House as alluring as the ($4.95), my choice for this Arabtan night, pipe of the snake charmer. One should not struck my western palate as being as resist. but for at least one evening leave strange as the Arabic language upon first the barbaric wilds of Michiana to explore bite. As ).finished all four sections of this the kind of cuisine with which Shherezad hamburger creation baked between layers kept her sultan happy. 

Friday, March 25, 1977 the observer 
7 

theater 





Better Than Baseball 
by nicholas durso 
In recent years, the professional theatre exploding with a musical flow and emotion­'Daily peoples the stage with characters. hero, calling him Henry Drummond, has given us a small canon of unique al burst that Daily sustains throughout the Daily has played Darrow before in an sketching him as a caricature of Darrow entertainment; the one-man play. Al­entire evening. Mr. Bain's staging effects ND-SMC Summer Theatre production of and surrounding him with a large cast. The though its roots probably reach back to provide a structure within which Darrow Jerome Lawrence and Robert E. Lee's result is closer to journalism than theatre. Homer, it began to take its hold on modern can move from home to courtroom and to Inherit the Wind. It is evident by his Rintels, Daily and Bain give us Darrow the theatre in the 1950's when a young man areas of the imagination accompanied by performance last night that Daily likes this man with his homespun humor, suspend­named Hal Holbrook walked onstage the grace and ease of movement that are Darrow much better. Lawrence and Lee ers and heartfelt disappointments alone in dressed in a white suit and convinced Daily's trademarks. Alone on the boards, saw the necessity of fictionalizing their a world that old age (1857-1938) and a audience after audience that he was Mark rapidly growing society have left him. Twain, seventy years of age. Holbrook is Throughout the evening's performance, doing it again on Broadway this week. Darrow takes us with him through the high 
Since that time, we've met many famous points of his life as a famed lawyer who historical personages on a one-to-one became a folk hero for his defense of labor basis: Emily Dickinson, Will Rogers, Abe liberalism and the rights of the common Lincoln, Harry Truman and Clarence man. Darrow reminisces on his admission Darrow. James Whitmore will soon be to the bar at age twenty-one, his defense ot appearing as Teddy Roosevelt. The thing the McNamara's, who were charged with that is attractive about all of these bombing the Los Angeles Times in 1911, "people" seen through the people who his own trial accusing him of bribing play them is that we like them. We like jurors (for which he was acquitted), and his them as soon as they walk onstage and feel feelings about the bitter hatred felt by a friendship with them as we leave the many of his colleagues for the causes he theater. They invite us into their study, espoused and his unconventional appear­office or living room to share private ance in court. Daily captures every nuance moments of joy and sorrow, doubt and and never allows Darrow to lapse into inspiration as they recount events in their sentimentality. "My life has been hu­lives. man," says Darrow and so is Daily's 
performance.
The ND-SMC Theatre production of Not enough can be paid about the value aarence D81TOw does not betray any of the of the ND-SMC Theatre's "Second Scene" beauties or intimacies of the one-man program. It is theatre being created undershow. We like it. We like Dan Daily 
as perhaps its best conditions. Low financialDarrow and desire to know Darrow better resources and the inadequate facilities as we leave Washington Hall. 
which have always impeded the Speech 
and Drama Department are balanced by
The beauty of David Rintels play is enthusiasm and imagination. Look forward likewise the beauty and wonder of Dan to aarence D81TOw tonight and tomorrow Daily's performance and Professor Reg-followed by What's to be Done After the inald Bain's direction. The play is meant to Sexual Revolution (April 1 and 2), C..Uille be one man in search of an audience and ..11d Perdican (April 3 and 4), and Mother the p:oduct~o~ continually insinuates its~lf U.mage (April 25 . and 26). As Darrow upon the VISitors who come to watch It, · . comments about law it's "even better 
reaching out, retreating, retaining *_:_han baseball." '

and *************************5 
When Hollywood meets Monday night to , to b'! trying to impart more significance to announ~e the Oscar winners for this year, a preuu~UJ the ~wa~d th~n it has in recent years b,y there wtll be more to the awards than the · nommatmg directors whose films weren t distribution of gold statues. Despite what nominated, fine filmmakers like Lina the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and W ertmuller (Seven Beauties) and lngmar
h 

Sciences might lead us to believe, the Bergman (Face to Face). Of the three up
T eAcademy Awards are marked by more for films that were nominated, (Alan J. considerations than sheer merit. In other Pakula for All the President's Men, John years, this has led to miscarriages of Avildsen for Rocky, and Sidney Lumet for justice and gross neglect in the voting. Network), Avildsen stands the best chance. 
This year, however, is different. The But there is something disconcerting about 
Racenominations are all so strong in the major the nomination of Bergman, a move that categories that any winner will be deserv-seems to indicate a shift from the Best ing, although maybe not quite as deserving Director-Best Film syndrome to honoring as one of the other candidates. In any truly great, consistent filmmakers. That event, here's a review of some of the major movement may well have begun, but it's
F 

categories and an idea of the reasoning my guess that it.will take some time for it to 
0 r 

behind the balloting: culminate. My pick for Best Director: John Avildsen. 
Best FUm: AD the President's Men and Taxi Driver are two fine films, but both are 
Some categories to watch: hampered by the fact that they came out so early in the year. Taxi Driver is also Best Cinematography: Haskell Wexler,
The

handicapped by its violence, which has a Bound For Glory. The cinematographer (or tendency to turn Academy voters off. 
"Director of Photography") is largelyBound for Glory, a beautifully-filmed responsible for the visual beauty of the biography of the late Woody Guthrie, film. Wexler is one of the best ever, <~.nd 
suffered miserably at the box office before Bound For Glory gave him a chance 10 use
Starsit received six nominations, and hasn't his talents to the optimum, with stunningdone much better even now. Cinematogra­results. 
pher Haskell Wexler should have the Best Ori;'naJ Score: The late Bernard
by daue o'keefe 
award in his division locked up, but the Herrmann, for Obsession. Herrman was film itself has no chance of winning the big Best Actress: Marie-Christine Barrault his best, which is still good enough to merit one of the best music writers in Hollywood one. Box office losers simply don't make it. 
(Cousin, Couslne) and Sissy Spacek (Car­the nomination. Jason Robards is too good until his death late in 1976. The score he Paddy Chayefsky has to contend with rie), both fine actresses, can be eliminated to lose. His performance in All the wrote for Taxi Driver, for which he was also 
Sylvester Stallone for Best Original Screen­on the basis of the unconventional films President's Men was as good as it could nominated, pales into functionalism when play, and whoever wins that award early in they starred in, a riotous French comedy have been, an impeccable job by a true pro. compared with the lush magnificence of his the evening can rest assured that his film 
and a unique horror movie, respectively. work for the Brian dePalma film. 
has won the premier award. Chayefsky's Both Barrault and Spacek are newcomers Best Supporting Actress: By far, the Best Adapted Screenplay: More and more,Network is too literate, sophisticated, and in a Hollywood begging for fresh leading hardest to pick. Jane Alexander (AD the filmmakers are turning to the new non­ultimately depressing for most Academy ladies, and their tim1~ will come. But their President's Men) is the logical choice: she fiction works of literature for their mater­members. The winner will be, if my 
time is not now. combines the two qualities that most ial. With each year, then, this categoryconvoluted logic wins out, Stallone's Talia Shire has been consistently good, interest the voters: consistency and qual­takes on just a bit more importance. Of the Rocky, a delightful, pugnacious, and first in both Godfatber films and now in ity. But Beatrice Straight (Network) turns five nominations, three (All the President's totally winning film in every respect. 
Rocky, but her relative lack of credentials in a fine performance as William Holden's Men, Bound For Glory, and Voyage of the will hurt her chances, despite the tremend­wife. The threat to her winning is the fact Damned) are non-fiction novels translated 
Best Actor: The problem here is ·Peter 
ous popularity of Rocky. Liv Ullmann (Face that she had but one major scene in the to the screen. The fourth, Casanova, also Finch, who died early this year. If he wins, 
to Face) is one of the two best actresses film, lasting under two minutes. contains elements of non-fiction, while The it will not be because the voters felt a working today. Unfortunately for Ullmann, Piper Laurie (Carrie) and Lee Grant Seven Per-Cent Solution, Nicholas Meyer's 
compulsion to honor him in death, but 
the other is Faye Dunaway, up for her (Voyage of the Damned) have been around delightful imitation of Conan Doyle, suffer­because his performance in Network was portrayal of a ratings-mad executive in the block, but Laurie's character was too ed nobly as a film. The winner here should superlative, and it was. But if he loses, it Network. Both fine performers, both bizarre (Sissy Spacek's crazed mother, who be All the President's Men. Pakula's film will be because: (a) the voters didn't want nominated for handling difficult roles with eventually dies a grotesque death at the survived the ultimate test of adaptationto inspire charges of sentimentality, or (b) style and grace, it's a shame that one has hands of Spacek), and Grant's vehicle an when Carl Bernstein and Bob Woodward genuinely great performances in films that to lose. My pick is Dunaway for a artistic and financial disaster. complimented the "great reporting job"don't win Best Film are nevertheless 
well-deserved first Oscar. It will come down to a battle between by the filmmakers. 
recognized, in which case Robert DeNiro Miss Alexander and 15-year old Jodie(Taxi Driver) or longshot Giancarlo Gian­Foster, who played a teen-aged prostitute Those are my picks, and I'm sure younini (Seven Beauties) might win, or (c) Best Supporting Actor: Burt Young in Taxi Driver. Depending on the mood of have your own. Last year was a good yearRocky wins a well-deserved sweep and (Rocky) and Ned Beatty (Network) are two the voters, Foster may well win. She for the movies, one of the best in recent another statue for Stallone. If I had to call superb actors who are finally getting a lot deserves the award, but not quite as much years, and I think the Academy has done a it. it would have to be Stallone by a nose 
of work and recognition. Burgess Meredith as does Alexander. fine job of indicating so with such strong over Finch. William Holden did a custom­I Rocky) was good but not outstanding as nominations in all categories. Let's hope
arily fine job in Network, but it's my Laurence Olivier may the same
~he hero's trainer. Best Director: The usual procedure here is winners reflect the level of feeling that he should have been nominat­win. If he does, it will be honorandum only. to pick the director of whichever film you achievement. Let's also hope I picked the ed for Best Supporting Actor. 
for his work in Marathon Man was far from pick for Best Film. But the Academy seems right ones. 

I I I I I I I 
1 
I I I I I I I 
I I 
---r---~--~------------------------~
I 

r 
Friday, March 25, 1977
the observer
8 



Spring Semester 1977 Final Exam Schedule 

Friday
Wednesday. Thursday 
May 12 

May 13
May 11 
8:00am to !O:OOam 
!0:30am to !2:30pm 
1:45pm to 3:45pm 
4:15pm to 6:15pm 
7:30pm to 
9:30 pm 
9MWF 9MW11 9M 9W 9F 
BIOL 104 10MWF 10MW12 10M lOW 10F 
PHIL 101 

2TI4  4TI6  
2Th  4TU  
2TU  4TH  
GP1~1  SMC:  Hist 104  
(63 & 64)  

BIOL 102 CHEM 116 EASC 102, 112, 122 PHYS 112,202 UNSC 102,112B 
SMC: Buec 202 Phi1110 (61 & 62) 
3MWF 3M 3W 3F 
EG 328 BA 235 
FIN 360 
SMC: Chern 232 Hust 464 Soc 153 (61 & 64) 
by Pat Payne 

St. Mary's Hall President's Cou­ncil (HPC) met last night and passed a proposal to circulate petitions to all students in an effort to reopen the parietals issue. 
The HPC, in conjunction with the parietals' committee, is still confi­dent that a policy change can be implemented this year, according to Susy Gauthier, HPC Chairper­son. 
"The petitions will be distribut­ed to dorm section representatives by the hall presidents," stated Gauthier, "and they will hopefully be out by the middle of next week." 
I •;we want to have the results• 
I tabulated before Easter break so 
I the HPC can write a proposal or 
I 
r 
endorsement in favor or opposed to 
I I ELO tickets 
I 
I still missing
I I 
Student Union Ticket Manager Chris McCabe announced that the
I 
tickets for tonight's ElO concert
I 
I 
I which were stolen from S. U. still l have not been recovered. Students should be wary of anyone trying to sell them tickets. as they might be stolen. Stolen tickets will be nullified and will not be good for admission. Anyone with any knowledge of the stolen tickets should call Student Union at 775'7. 
Pre-Law Society to sponsor Student Night 

The Pre-Law Societv will I old its annual Student Night tonight at 
7:30 p.m. in Haggar Auditorium. The program will feature a ques­tion-and-answer period with sever­al recent Notre Dame graduates who are presently attending vari­ous law schools, including Notre Dame and Northwestern. 
FS 180 ENGL 109 HUM 186 
MGT 464 
SMC: Buec 207, 208 Hist 104 (61 & 62) Hist 202 (63 & 64) 
4MWF 4M 4W 4F 
MARK 231 EG 236 
SMC: Bio 104 Chern 162, 218 
an extension of parietals.'' she continued. "It will then be present­ed to Dr. Duggan and the Board of Governance,'' Gauthier added. 
"I know we're going to come through successfully on the parie­tals' issue," asserted Gauthier. 
Other business conducted at the meeting included a unanimous decision by HPC members to establish a uniform constitution for all halls. Julie Pelletiere, Holv Cross President. suggested a sin"­gle constitution because ''if poli­cies are broken, they will all be handled in the same wav as a matter of fairnes's to students.'' 

The constitution will provide for a mandatory judicial board in all dorms. Presently, on.iy LeMans has an active judicial board. Its main 
function.  according  to  Michele  
Jaworski, LeMans  ident. i!;  to  
•  

llMWF 11M llW llF 
MATH 202, 204 2013, 210, 225, 226 
SMC: Phi1110 (63 & 64) 8TI10 8TU 8TH 
MATH 100 Series 
PHYS 210' 
SMC: Enlt 101 Enlt 103 (66 & 67) Hust 324 
1~1WF ~ 
1M 1VV IF 
ACCT 222 ACCT 334 ACCT477 
SMC: Mlft112 (61.62.64.65) Mlit 102 (61. 63) Enlt 409 

(i2 _J.IJN~~eEwCOR OS
"JJGU"r Releases 
Now ltl Stock Amer;ca
* Jethro ·Tull Bach•nan-Turner 
o~verdrive
* 

* N:iels Lofgren .,~ Miles Davis 
ACROSS FROM T()WN & COUNTRY SHOPP/Nir; CENTER 
MON-SAT10 • 9 pm SUNDAY 12-6 pm 
Saturday 
Tuesday
Monday 
May 14 
May 17
May 16 

12MWF  3TU  
12M  3TH  
12W  
12F  FY ROTC  
CHEM 116L  

9TI11  10TT12  ENGL 114  
9TU  10TU  
9TH  10TH  ECON 102, 121  
llTU  
11TH  

GOVT 141 
MODERN AND CLASSICAL HIST 110, 112,-116 
LANGUAGES 100 Series PSY 111 
MLFR 242, 242AF ANTH109 
MLSP 242, 252 SOC lll,lllB, 114 
SMC: Enlt 203 (61 & 62) 
EG 120, 121 Enlt 254 
PHYS 126, 142 EASC 142 

SMC: Bues 251, 252 
SMWF 2M 
2MWF 

SM 2W 
sw 

SF SMC: R1st, 101, 131 2F 
ECON 224  FIN 231  
CHEM 224L  FIN 372  
SMC:  Enlt 457  PHYS 222  
Govt 151, 152  
SMC: Rlst 251  

deal with parietals' violations. 
The constitution will have to be ratified by a two-thirds majority of each hall council to put in effect. 
Gauthier noted that hall constitu­tions at Notre Dame and other universities are pre~ently being studied and discussed by the HPC to aid in developing the most suitable constitution for St. Mary's. 
HPC also decided to conduct round table meetings with several hall section leaders serving as representatives. Its purpose, said Gauthier, will be for students to meet informally to discuss a wide range of problems within the St. Marv's Communitv. 
""i'he meetings will deal with problems concerning resident life. college policies. student govern­ment policies and interhall rela­tions. It will be an for 8MWF 8MW10 8M 8W 8F 
THEO 100 Series 
1TI3 EG 126 lTU ARCH 251 lTH MGT 231 







SMC HPC to circulate petitions 
representatives in different halls to find the best possible solutions to a given number of problems, and then bring these ideas back to HPC for the formulation of proposals," stated Gauthier. 
"Representatives from all class­
es and dorms will be able to gain valuable insights from each other," noted Gauthier. 
HPC voted to change the consti­tution to allow the HPC chairperson to be a past hall president. 
Gauthier pointed out two advan­tages to the new ruling. It would allow the chairperson to devote more time _to the position in addition to having an extra year's experience. 
' 'I know I could have done a better job if I weren't McCandless president this year." she added. 
ever, that's been more instrument­al in increasing relations with Notre Dame than HPC, because we're the only body that's structured the same," Gauthier concluded. 
workshop offered 
SMC Counseling Center is offering a five-session workshop, open to all, in controlling tension. Partici­pants will Jearn how to relax, to reduce fear of anxiety by control­ling thoughts. Anyone interested should attend part or llll of the workshop. The meetings will be from 6:30 to 7:45 pm March 31,' April 6. 13, 20 and 27 at the SMC Clubhouse. For further informa­
tion contact Les Malkiewich, work­shop coordinator, at :84-4835 or 289-3647. 
"There is no other group:_h_o_\1-_·-------------­
SMC SCOIAL COMMISSION PRESENTS 


OLIVER 
Fri. & Sat Mar. 25 & 26 7:30 &, 10:00 
Regina Hall Auditorium FESTIVAL SEATING $1.00 Admission 

Friday, March 25, 1977 
the observer
Soviet relations shifted 

New Indian prime minister changes policy 
NEW DELHI, India [AP] •• India's new prime minister, 81­year-old Morarju Desai, took office yesterday and promptly announced a major foreign policy shift away from the country's traditional spe­cial relations with the Soviet Union. 
"We won't have any special relations with any country," Desai said in a press conference minutes after he was sworn in as India's fourth prime minister since ·inde­pendence. 
Desai, long considered pro-Wes­tern, said India would adopt a foreign policy of "proper non­alignment" and would seek chan­ges in the Indo-Soviet friendship treaty if necessary. 
"If the Indo-Soviet friendship treaty involves any want of friend-
New look given 
ship with others, then it will have to change," Desai said. 
American officials in Washing­ton were pleased with the selection of Desai. Despite his commitment to India's traditional nonalignment they expected him to seek better relations with the United States. 
Desai was sworn in as prime minister by Acting President B. D. Jatti in a simple three minute ceremony at the red sandstone presidential palace that was the residence of the British viceroys in the colonial era. 
When reporters at th(! news conference took note of Desai's advanced age, he said he would quit the prime ministership "the day I feel I am not physically fit." 
"I'll vacate immediately, even tomorrow," he added. "I'm not going to stay a moment longer than I'm needed. But what does age 
matter?  It's the spirit that  mat­ 
ters."  
Desai,  a  veteran  of  India's  

independence movement, had told an interviewer in January that he wouldn't retire from politics "until I take my last breath." 
In a procedure that sparked immediate dissension among the political parties that united to oust Prime Minister Indira Gandi's ­Congress party in last week's general elections, Desai was hand­picked for the top post by two other aging disciples of independence leader Mohandas Gandhi. 
Irish Wake to start An Tostal 
by Rosemary Mills Staff Reporter 
The traditional Irish Wake will begin An Tostal on Wicked Wed­nesday, April 20, and end the festivities on Sunny Saturday, April 23, according to chairman Bob Smith. 
Under the direction of-Smith and co-chairman Mick Mancuso, the Irish Wake has been given a new look. "This year," Smith stated, 
, "the Wake will be a package deal, with ticket packages selling for $3.00 each. The package, worth approximately $7.00, will be a double ticket with additional cou­oons attached." Smith encouraged 
, all students to take advantage of what he termed "definitely a great deal." On Wednesday, one-half of the double entitles the student to free beer and half-priced mixed drinks at Fat Wally's from 2 pm until 5 pm. The Wake will continue at Bridget McGuire's with a "two-for­one" special from 5 pm until 7 pm. The other half of the ticket admits the student to the Irish Wake dance, April 23 in Stepan Center. Beginning at 9 pm and lasting until 1 am, the dance will feature "Choice", a Chicago-based band. According to Smith, the atmosphere of Stepan that night will be disco. Singles as well as 
New entertal•nment ser1•es announced by Nazz 
by Mark Perry 

In an effort to bring a greater variety of entertainment to Notre Dame, this weekend the Nazz will begin a series of presentations by Notre Dame students. 
Dave Shaheen, entertainment coordinator for the Nazz, said that he received some resoonse to an ad 
place.d in the Observer calling for
creative people to present any poetry reading•.music, or any other 
form of entertamment. 
All the performers· featured this weekend are students at Notre Dame. 
Tonight, beginning at 9 p.m., Charlotte King will read poetry, followed by the Notre Dame First 
Jazz Combo at 10 p.m.
Jules Thompson, pianist and impersonator, will perform on Sat­urday night from 9 p.m. to 11 p.m. 
Sarah McGrath and Connal McGee will read poetry next Mon­day night at 9 p.m. and 1 p.m. respectively. Between their pre· sentations Sio-mei-lein, Symong
Shih, ChenTi Hu, Bluce Wong, and 
, Shuh Lym will perform Chinese traditional popular musie. Shaheen noted that the readings will be original poetry or other verse.
Shaheen also announced plans to present plays later in the semester. 
Areas of law seminar topic 
Saint Mary's Law Society will ~ponsor "Spectanty Semmar:· 'fht­Areas of Law" on Monday, March 28, at 7 p.m. in 161 LeMans. The seminar will consist 'of an informal discussion on the different areas of law by three female attorneys. 
-Elizabeth Davenport, from Miles Laboratory in Elkhart, will speak on corporate and patent law, South Bend Public Defender Jeanne Swartz will discuss criminal law and general practice, and Ann Wernz, Notre Dame Law School professor, will explain teaching law and agency law. 
The seminar is open to the public. 
In addition, plans are being made 
to have an open stage for poetry in the near future, if student response to the new presentations at the Nazz is good. . 
Anyone having suggestions for future presentations at the Nazz, or who would like to volunteer your talents for future performances, . 
, contact Dave Shaheen at 288-7878. 
couples are encouraged to attenu. Single tickets for the dance only will be available at the door for $2.00 a piece. 
Smith stressed the fact that only buyers of the ticket package are eligible for both the Wednesday and Saturday festivities. 
Each double ticket will have several An Tostal coupons attached to it. Two of these coupons can be redeemed for $1.00 off the price of a pitcher of beer at Fat Wally's. Another two coupons are good for a free mixed drink with the purchase of one at the regular price. Smith is presently working on the possibility of adding coupons provided by MacDonald's. 
Tickets will be sold, beginning March 28, at both the North and 
South dining halls during all dinner hours and at the Student Union ticket office. At St. Mary's, tickets 
will be sold in the lobby of LeMans flli,ll from 12 pm until 4:30 pm and · in the St. Mary's dining hall from 
4:30 pm. until 7 pm. Ticket sales will end April15. 
Smith stressed the importance of buying tickets early, ''because only a limited amount of tickets will be sold." 
.Addition~! info~mation about the lrtsh Wake1s available at4-4509. 
·---------~-------t
1 1 
I

I I I I
I 
I 
I
I I 
1 
I
I 
1 

PHILOSOPH.Y · 
I
I

M y M •
eet our 8JOr I 
For those interested in philosophical questions I (e.g., questions .abctut human freedom, the 
. I
existence of God, the· objectivity of morals, the nature of law} the Alilosophy Department at Notre I Dame '))rovides a congenial setting for pursuing 1 these interests. It is a ,,rofessionally distinguished department with a large number of outstanding I teachers. · 
I
I 

For further information, come to the Department offering during 'Meet your Major' week--1 MONDAY, MARCH 28 AT 6:30 PM LIBRARY LOUNGE I 
or c:xtntad 1 
H ldDr. aro Moore or 3:J7 O'Shag 7534 I 
L----------------1
r--------------1 
t ' 


t t 't 
I 

~~~~~~~~·~~~~~~~~
t 







senior bar t 
t

happy hour today t 
3·6pm beers-3oe ' t ladies night tonight! · t Special 9·1 787s·· 40° I 
' 

Jayaprakash Narayan, 74, and ally so soon after winning the 
J.B. Kripalandi, 86, made their election on a pledge to cooperate in choice after conferring with some forming the new government. of the lawmakers belonging to the As soon as Narayan and Kripala­victorious Janata People's party ni announced that they favored headed by Desai and the Congress Desai, Ram's followers said they for Democracy · CFD-led by would stay out of the new govern­former Agriculture Minister Jagji-ment, but would support the Janata van Ram. 'in Parliament on an issue-by-issue 
Political sources said Narayan basis. and Kripalani agreed to evolve a Without the support of the "Consensus" on the prime minis-28-seat CFD block in Parliament, tership in order to avoid a public the Janata could have trouble re­squabble between Janata and its maining in oower.
:·······............ 
:University of Notre Dam 
• Glee Club : In Concert 
SUNDAY MARCH 27, I.977 WASHINCTON HALL 
Adnission: Free 

earlyseating advised 
I
• 

SPEED READING COURSE 


TO BE TAUGHT IN 
ELKHART/SOUTH BEND 
T~e United States. R~ading Lab is offering their famous speed readmg course to a hm1ted number of qualified people here in the Elkhart/South Bend area. The average person who completes this course can read lO times faster, and with substantially imr:·0ved comprehension and better concentration. 
This famous course has taugh many thousands of people to read over 1000 words per minute with the ability to understand and retain what they have read much more effectively. Average graduates can read most novels in less than one hour. 
For complete details about this famous speed reading course: be sure to attend one of the free one hour orientation lectures that have been scheduled. These lectures are open to the public, above age 13 (persons-under 18 ~hould be accompanied by a parent, if possible) and the course will be explained in complete detail, including class schedules, instruction procedures and a tuition that 
is much less than similiar courses.  ·  
/  
These meetings will be held in  Elkart  at  the Y.M.Y.W.C.A.  

Comple~, 200 East Jackson on Wednesday, March 23 at 6:30p.m. and agam at 8:3.0 p.m.. Thursday. March 24 at 6:30p.m. and again at 8:30p.m., Fnday, March 25 at 6:30p.m. and again at 8:30p.m., Saturday. March 26 at 10:30 a.m. and again at I :30 p.m., Monday, ~arch 28 at 6:30p.m. and again at 8:30p.m. South Bend meetings w1ll be held m Madeleva Classroom Building, Room 247, at St. Mary's College on Wednesday. March·23 at 6:30p.m. and again at 8:~0 p.m.. Thursday, March 24 at 6:30p.m. and again at 8:30p.m. Fnday. March 25 at 6:30 p.m. and again at 8:30 p.m. and TWO FINAL MEETINGS on Saturday. March 26 at 10:30 a.m. and again at I :30 p.m. and Monday, March 28 at 6:30 p.m. and again at 8:30 
p.m. 
Classes are limited and class places will be tilled on tirst com~-first s~rve basi~ only. Be sure to attend the earliest meeting possible to msure a ...ass place. Group rates arc avaihthil' upon 
request. 
10~__~t~h~e~o~b~s~e~r~v~e~r~________f_rid_a_v_,_M_a_rc_h_2_5_,_19_7__7 
Carter outlines agenda for Moscow talks 
WASIDNGTON (AP) -Declaring that the American people should be told what is going on in foreign policy. President Carter yesterday outlined an agenda for negotiations in Moscow and said it will include an effort to eliminate nuclear testing of all kinds. 
Carter also said that Secretary of State Cyrus R. Vance will be urging Soviet leaders to join the Unitea States in efforts to end outside interference in Africa, lest it lead to conflict there. 
Carter described at a nationally bradcast White House news con­ference the topics Vance will be discussing in Moscow talks next week. He said the description was not so detailed as to impede. negotiations. The President said his administration will follow a policy of disclosing foreign policy considerations because of its need . to "derive strength directly from the people." 
::-He said the administration has spent weeks in detailed study of the agenda for the Vance mission, and it's important for the American people to know what is on it. 
Carter said he wants it known that "when I do speak, I don't speak with a hollow voice," but with the support of Congress and the nation. He said that should be clear, for example, in his expres-
Life sentences given 
Boston Zone tamed by stabbing 
The crackdown began after a 

BoSTON (AP) -Three men were sidewalk brawl last November. sentenced to life imprisonment at a According to court testimony, a courthouse near Beacon Hill on group of Harvard football players Thursday for stabbing to death a went to the Combat Zone on a lark Harvard football player. A dozen after a season-end dinner. A prosti­blocks away, the so-called Combat tute stole one player's wallet. They Zone where the murder occured gave chase, and protectors came was already tamed by the crime. out of the bars to defend the 
The sensational murder trial has woman. brought intense police pressure on Star defensive back. Andrew the once-thriving sex business in Puopolo was stabbed in the heart the area legally zone as the "adult during the struggle and died a entertainment district.'' Customers month later. are staying away because of the Three Boston men, Leon Easter­publicity. ling, 41; Edward J. Soares, 33, and 
Prosecutors say the bawdy days Richard S. Allen, 36, were convict· of "anything goes" have ended. ed offirst-de~ree murder Thursday 
Police raids possible 
(continued from page 1) 

would take until he talked with 
members of the Board of Public Safety, who handle all public nuisance violations, and other city officials. 
Kanser said that if the Eddy­Corby area bars are singled out for police raids, he would file a discrimination suit. ''They cannot pick out one area in the city and hit them for underage drinking with­out hitting other areas.'' 
Kanser said, though, that he would favor having liquor control cards issued by the county that a person would have to possess to buy liquor. He said he thinks this would cut down on the incidence of minors entering bars and buying liquor. 
He maintained that keeping those under 21 out of the bars would not hurt his business apprec­iably, since he said, more seniors would come to the local bars ifthey 

Candidates speak 
(continued from page 1) important point is to find out why it failed and try again." 
Chin, Baggino, and Stolze be­
lieve that an important part of their 
platform is maintaining the present 
activities and at the same time 
broadening the scope of St. 
Mary's. They also stated that the 
Notre Dame community is impor­
tant in St. Mary's activities. 

"Both St. Mary's and ND are 
dependent upon each other. What 
we hope to do is establish a certain • 
amount of independence and at the 
same time compliment each other's 
activities,,. Baggino said. "Their 
structure is very different from 
ours, but they are willing to 
participate in what we want to plan. 
A good majority of the problem is 
getting the St. Mary's girls to 
attend activities on their own 
campus." 

Both parties are looking forward 
to the opening of the Athletic 
Facility and the availability of a 
large area to hold more functions. 
"We'd like to prevent the exodus of students from St. Mary's on the weekends. The Athletic Facility holds a strong potential for. small scale concorts, an increase in speakers, entertainers, and dan­ces," Rukavina said. 
didn't have to fight the crowds of underclassmen. "We would be appealing to a different, and legal, clientele." Kanser added that he thinks stricter enforcement of the 21-year-old law would get the University more solidly behind the 19-vear-old drinking age reform. 

Matt Bauer, a part-owner olf Bridget McGuire's Filling Station, said that he would also act against what he called "harassment" b;f police, if raids were to be conduct­ed only against the Eddy-Corby area bars. He accused Councilman Roger 0. Parent, whose Jetter to the Board of Public Safety Tuesday brought the controversy to a boil, of "making irresponsible remarks and idle threats.'' He attributed Parent's vocal role in the matter to self-seeking political motives. 
Bauer stated ti...t Dddget's em­ploys local young peolpe to clea:n up around the bar and that he 'hasil'f_heard any complaints from the community about Bridget's. 

sion of concern about human rights in other nations. Soviet Leader Leonid Brezhnev has complained of what he called 
U.S. interference in Russian inter­n~! affairs in the human rights statements and gestures of the new administration. But Carter said he has seen nothing to indicate that 
, differences on that point would 
intrude  on  negotiations  over  nu­ 
clear arms control.  
Carter's  list  of  topics  for  the  

Vance mission to Moscow included: 
-Discussion of arms-limitations "and actual reduction for a change," as the focal pointfor the negotiations. 
-Limitations on arms sales to other nations. Carter sa1d the United States is now "the No. 1 exporter or salesman of arms of all kinds," but will change that and also will seek Soviet agreement on mutual constraints. 
-The reduction of military forces in Europe, where efforts to agree on curtailment of both NATO and Warsaw Pact forces have long been stalled. 
-An effot to "control the testing of nuclear devices," both weapons and peaceful. "We would like to eliminate these tests altogether if 
the  Soviets  will  agree,"  Carter  
said.  
-Demilitarization  of  the  Indian  
Ocean.  

and given fife terms in prison 
moments later. 

Before the stabbing, 25 or 30 
prostitutes would line up at dusk 
along the sidewalks of block-long 
LaGrange Street. They bickered 
ND-SMC Frosh 
tosponsor dance 
The Notre Dame and St. Mary's freshman classes will sponsor a Freshman Square Dance on Satur­day from 8:30p.m. untilll p.m. in Stepan Center. Admission is $.50 a:~d free apple cider will be served. 

FESTIVAL77 proudly presents: 
Ray Reussnerner 
Classical Guitarist Student of Andres Segwia March 30 7:30p.m. Uttle Theatre, Saint Mary's 
$4-General Admissbn 
AC71C~! 
April 2 7:30 p.m. Moni; Civic The GRAND ILLUSI<:l11 and MAGIC COMPANY 
Levitation--Sleight-of-tenl Hindu Rope Trick $6.50 $5.50 $5 $4 $1 
Tickets: St. Mary's College Century Center 121 S. Michigan Call284-4176 or 284-9711 
Sponsored 1Jy Foundations 
for 
Chrls>tlan Faith 
A Series on·christian Evidences 
Are you asking any fl)f the following six questions? 
1. 
Is the Bible an authoritative revelation of God? 

2. 
Is the resurredil[)n an historical fad? 

3. 
Is Jesus the God-man? 

4. 
Is everyone going to be saved? 

5. 
How can a loving God allow evil & suffering? 

6. 
Can I know God in a personal way? 


If you are, then yc,u will want to mme to the Ubrary Lounge, tonight at 7:00 p.m. for a good time of singing fellrowship, meeting new people, and for the first of this lecture-discussion series. 
Campus Crusade for Christ 
over standing room on the prime corners where they enticed passers by. 
Now the hookers have disap­peared from the streets. "They have had their day in the sun," said Ass't. District Attorney Timothy O'Neill. "Now they can 
crawl back into the woodwork." 
-Requests that the Soviet Union ' join in seeking to end outside interference in Africa, and in laying the groundwork for a Geneva conference on the Middle East later this year. 
"We don't know whether or not we'll be successful at all," Carter said. "But we go in good faith. 
with high hopes." 


Coal train derailed 
A Penn-Central· coal train be­came partially derailed about 7:30 
p.m. Tuesday evening, on the spur that parallels Douglas Road. 
Six cars of the nine-car train hit the ,·oadbed when the rails parted and tell to the side of the ties. The locomotive remained on the tracks. 
The locomotive moved all the coal cars still on the tracks Wed­nesday morning and a work crew repaired the other damage later in ~he day. 
None of the derailed cars over­turned; although each contained approximately 60 tons of coal. 
The track is owned by the Penn Central. 

MICH lANA DEMANDS IT! TH SMASH 
U.S. 31 NORTH 277-1522 
HELD OVER 7 WEEK! 
THE FUN 

BONNIE AND Cil'DE 
STARTS 

11IEYAIN"t 
Weekdays 
730 9 30 

-: -: GEORGE SEGAL 
Sat-Sun 

1:45-3:35-5:25­.JANEFONDA 
7:30-9:40 p.m 

"FUN WITH DICK&JANE" 
ihz ( nlmriaJ 
Fancak£ Rous£ 
OUR SPECIALTY OVEN BAKED APPLE PANCAKES 
You'll be back for more 
US 31 (Dixieway North) in Roseland (Aaoss from Holiday Inn) 
-" tt 


Acareer in law­
witncutlaw school. 
What can vou jo with only a b<chelor's degree? 
Now the.e is a way to bridge th.J gap between an undergraduate education and a ch.lllenging, respon­sible career. The Lawyer's Assistant is able to do work traditionally done by l3wyers. 
Three months of intensive traini.1g can give you the sl<ills-the courses are taught by lawyers. You choose one of the seven courses offered-choose the city in which you want to work. 
Since 1970, The Institute for Paralegal Training has plac~d more than 1600 graduates in law firms. banks, and corporations in over 75 cities. 
If you are a senior of high academic standing and are intere >led in a career as a Lawyer's Assistant. we'd like 'o meet you. 
Contact your placement office tor an interview with our representative. 
We will visit your campus on TUESDAY, MARCH 29 
The Institute for Paralegal Training 
235 South 17t'l Stre<:>t. Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19103 (215) 732 6600 Operated by Para-L~1al, Inc. 
._____ 
AC-003:·
----··-·-------· 
CB 
Jesus 

BATH, N.Y. lAP]--citizens band radio signal recently interrupted a solem moment during a church service in this upstate New York community. 
The Rev. Austin Miles had just told the congregation of the Assem­bly of God Church that "God will answer your prayers," when a deep male voice crackeled over the public address system: 
"That's a big 10-4, good bud-dy. " 
Friday, March 25, 1977 the observer 1 1 
Organized labor, Congress conflict 
WASIDNGTON [API -· Organi­Congress and the public,'' said you should not field the team t10n was mounting a very effective 
House Majority Leader James unless you will win,'' the speaker
zed labor, outmaneuvered in its campaign against us, but we first congressional test this year, Wright. lamented. . thought we could prevail in the 
The surprising defeat in the Contractors, home builders and
faces even more difficulty with House and the battle was still in the other legislative goals such as House on Wednesday night of a bill right-to-work advocates were a­Senate." 
repeal of state right-to-work laws, authorizing unrestricted picketing mong the groups that mounted Both labor and the Democratic
at construction sites dimmed chan­what O'Neill described as the most
Democratic congressional leaders · leadership agreed that the bigsaid yesterday. ces for most major labor legislation intensive lobbying effort he had mistake was a failure to lobby"Labor is going to have to make in this session -and no one knew it ever seen. "My office alone "back home." the other side did. 
an awfully convincing case to get better than labor's own lobbyists. received 50,000 letters." "We got caught with our pants The picketing bill, which would A spokesman for the Associated
anything else through, both with down," said Victor Kamber, top have allowed workers on strike Builders and Contractors, one of lobbyist for the AFL-CIO Building against one subcontractor to picket the groups leading the fight against 
the entire job site, was rejected by the bill, estimated the lobbying
ND-SMC students tutor ~ednt~onstruction Trades Depart-
the House on a vote of 217 to 205. campaign cost about $1 million. But. by the same token, Kamber A similar bill passed Congress last 
Associated Builders and Con­year only to be vetoed by then­
Amerl·can /ndl·an Chl.ld•,en 
and his fellow lobbyists predicted tractors alone hired five public
J the sting of defeat would also work President Gerald R. · Ford under relations firms to set up radio and by Peggy Schumaker Anyone is welcome to participate to stiffen labor's resolve. urgings from the same groups. 
television interviews, design mail­
and may do so by calling Joe "We may suffer for it initially, Because last year's measure 
grams and purchase newspaperA group of Notre Dame and Saint Collins at 8693 or John Dister at but we're not dead," he said. passed the House by a wide ads.
Mary's students, under the Stan-8914. "Sure we're going to have to fight, margin, labor figured it would pass "We knew we had the votes asthe House easily this year with theford and Zahm Community Servi-Rockne Memorial and repeal is going to be more far back as March 18, and we hadces Project, are tutoring a group of I d difficult, but it always was." toughest fight in the Senate. 
200 votes at that time that wereAmerican Indian children in South events P anne The section in the Taft-Hartley "We miscalculated," said Kam­solid," said Scott Robertson, theBend. The 4::>th annual ~nute Rockne Act authorizing states to ban union ber. "We knew last week the vote contractor group's spokesman.
The students tutor on Mondays Memorial Mass and Breakfast on shop agreements, is part of a broad was getting tight and the opposi­
and Wednesdays in an Indian the University of Notre Dame legislative package being pushed~.:___________________________.___. Community Center on Hastings campus is scheduled for Sunday. by the AFL-CIO, along with the Road. About 25 children. ranging March 27. An 8:30 a.m. mass common situs picketing bill. an ~-~,..••• • 
811CIUIIVCI!t cal
in grades from one to nine, are celebrated by Rev. Robert Griffin. increase in the minimum wage and tutored in reading and math. Other c.S.C. in the Dillon Hall Chapel sweeping changes in federal law to activities, such as field trips to the will be followed by the family make it easier for unions to Ice Capades and Indiana Indian breakfast in the South Dining Hall. organize and negotiate contracts. Burial Grounds, are also a part of Annually scheduled for the Sun-While the picketing bill directly this project. day closest to the March 31 affected only the building trades, · 
This program was first initiated anniversary of the fatal 1931 plane the vote was the first test of labor's in the late 1960's when a group of crash, the Mass and breakfast clout in the new and heavily Notre Dame and St. Mary's stu-honor the memory of the former Democratic Congress, which orga­dents remodeled an old garage on student and coach-at Notre Dame. nized labor helped elect. Hastings Road to serve as the Merv Johnson, assistant head House Speaker Thomas P. 0' center. coach under Dan Devine, will be Neill Jr. chided labor leaders 
Edward Meyers, who is connec-the speaker at this year's event. before the vote for not mustering ted with the South Bend school He came to Notre Dame two years enough support for the bill and administration, in in charge of this ago and has served as offensive said, "I have no intention of program. Meyers contacted Notre line coordinator. scheduling 14B. I don't think the Dame Volunteer Services who han-Reservations for breakfast are senate will act on it either." ded the program over to Stanford required and may be made by And, in a later postmortem, and Zahm Community Services. calling Kelly Kent, 283-6517, be-O'Neill said the leadership appar­Meyers has been tutoring the adult fore 5 p.m. or Paul Hessling, ently was persuaded to rush the bill Indian community for the past two chairman at 234-8279 after 5 p.m. through by some optimistic reports years. Notre Dame andSt.Mary's Prices for the meal are $2.50 for from labor. He vowed that won't students have been tutoring the adults and $1.50 for those 12 and happen again. children for the past year. under. "It's an old rule of politics that 
rrs NOT HIS NOSE THAT GROWS! 
Cl1hi': 'lvnl!lirQd'': 

THE EROTIC ADVENTURES OF :0
:s~lf9~~~!9 
Starring ALEX ROMAN DYANNETHORNE 
TECHNICOLOR 
®
productions 
RATED 

PLUS: Co-feature "Melissa: The Total Female" X 
r--------------------------------------------,I ~b;;,:;;;-,;-;;~;;;:--;;:.;:;;~h-;d-;;-nd C'assrljir·ed I
NOTICES Chi-Chi's Mother-Hey, Chris! Are you even reading Lewisio's Spa~Jhetti Restaura~t will fully carpeted in 1976. $340.00 per J• Thank you. the Personals anymore? TypistI open at 6 ton1ght. $1.50 Lew1s Rec month. Gas and electric not included Peasant ---------------I Room. 914 Grandview. Near Colfax School ---------------Observer typists, 
l ---------------
LWW. 288-7894 Hey Schneider!!! a crime, and already I
on Call anytime. It's just 21 Accurate, fast ty~ing. Mrs. Donoho. Terry Brown. You owe me TWICE!! retired. Anyway, thanks for every-
Ads 

1
232-0746. Hours. 8a.m. to 8p.m. ---------------Guess who thing you made life in the office ---------------5-bedroom house, real nice, large ---------------bearable 
I 

I 
Will teach you flute in your spare living room and kitchen, fully fur· Class of '79 Special· thanks to Stephanie, Mel, ~~:.__C~I~~~~~.:______ nished, close to campus, has burglar 1 Junior Year Elections Nan, Morey and expecially Sun-J I 
alarm, call Charlie Moo)re, 272-7180. Desperate: need ride to Purdue Sat. -McKenna shine. You're the greatest. Logan Center Volunteers: Field trip ----------·-----morning. Will share cost. Call -Flanigan A former Sports Editor 
I 

to Museum of Science & Industry, Summer rental and-or next aca-Nancy 4-4054 (SMC). -Fitxpatrick --------------­
1 
Sat. 8:30a.m. to 6:30p.m. We need demic year. Great house. 8 rooms ----------------Frick Deebles, You have no stamina, but lots of old & new volunteers. Any fully furnished. 4 bedrooms, 2 Need ride to NEW ORLEANS for ----.,------------you're still cute. questions: Sue Maude 277-1182 or baths. Washer, dryer. Large lawn. Easter break. Call Kevin 8892. CCRJSLPI --------------­
1 

J~~~~~~2~5_:________ Near Jeff. Eddy. 234-1972. ---------------1have gotten wind of your plan and Now if that doesn't get a response... 
I

I 
1 
JilL ----------·-----it won't succeed. -~------------­EUROPE-WORLDWIDE academic Furnished ten-room house, avail-FOR SALE J.S. Karen, 
I 

I 
discountr year roung S.A. T.A. 4228 able last of May.suitable for 5 or 6 ----------------Just think, if I'd gotten killed, it First, Tucker, Ga. 30084 (800) students. One block e;~st of Memor-New, never used Mirand 35 mm To the Broad, wouldn't be your birthday. 241-9082. ial Hospital. Call 232-4412 for more DX-3 F 1.8 lens. Call Dan 33 15. Happy Birthday! (Sorry this wasn't Love, 
1

I 
TER;-;,U,£R5"T.YPeD.'Ai~;-;;ther ~~~~~.:__________ Fc;;:--;;;:--;-7:;-R;d-Eiit;,'d;k"blue ~nve;"'~~~;~~a~~~ w~~s:~f:! ~~ ~~ --------------~ed I misc. typing. Very reasonable rates. with white vinyl roof, AM-FM be happy to accomodate. Tomorrow's a special day. Call 272-8464 after 6:00. LOST & FOUND stereo, air, power steering & Love ya' always, For one and all 
I 

---------------brakes, rear defroster, 351 V-8. The Mental Ward 'Cause it's Patti Collin's 20th B-day, Free to a good home. Lovable Lost-sapphire ring between D1 and $3,250 or best offer. Call 272-9895. ---------------What a ball! healthy 5 month· old male mixed North Q'uad. Sentimental value. Call ---------------Chink... So if you're a fun person beagle. Housebroken. Call 288-9761 Mary Beth 4.5470. For Sale: 1973 Pontiac LeMans Here's to shaving cream, alarm And you want a good laugh 
1 

Fri. Sat. Sun. ----------------power steering, power brakes, air clocks, saunas, and spows. -808-You'll dial 4-4270 ---------------Lost: s.subject spiral notebook. conditioning -triple white -56,000 Queen And give her a call! 
1 

Easter buses to chicago will be Green. Please call 86!16. miles-$1,950. Call 287-7618. ----------------the gang 
I 

leaving the main circle at 5:45 on -------------------------------Hi Hank!!! G & c --------------­both Wed. April 6 and Thurs. April Found: One puppy around Lewis For Sale: '74 Vega, good condition, ---------------Pati, we know the memory goes fast 
7. Call Tom 8338 for seat reserva-Hall. Call 7607. low mileage, best offer. Call 8347. 3rd floor Keenan, when you start getting old, but have lions. ------------------------------Did you see that??? Hank's gotten you forgotten us already? It's a good 
1 

---------------Med-blue ski jacket with an inside For Sale: Guitar -Gibson SG, two in a row!!! thing we can't pull a "Judy Jen­"Not blind opposition to progress, pocket. Think lost in the vicinity of Walnut finish, excellent condition, ---------------nings" or you might not recognize 
1 

but opposition to blind progress." the bars. Call 4184 SMC, Ziggy. great action, Bixby piece. Call Jim APRIL 3 SUNDAY AFTERNOON us. We'll be thinking of you. Happy 
I 

I 
Come see and hear an introduction ---------------3232. REFLRECTION FOR MEN AT OLD 20th! Love, The Three Musketeers to the Sierra Club this Sunday, Lost: Black & brown mixed Collie & ---------------COLLEGE FR. CHARLIE SHEEDY, --------------­
I 

March 27 at 7 p.m. in the LaFortune Shepard. 8 mos. 60 lbs. 287-7740. c.s.c. SIGN-UP CAMPUS MINIST-Patti, an older woman, gosh, what Auditorium. ------------------PERSONALS RY LIB. would my mother say? Happy ---------------Found: a calculator in the Engineer----------------Birthday from the bear with the 
I 

ing Auditorium on Wednesday be-Dear Mr. Busy, Bob, guitar.
FOR RENT tore break. 1136. Wish you weren't. Take care. Most people who were born in --------------­

I 

------------------the Nebraska Lady March are great. Happy Birthday to To our favorite wimp: Thanks for the 4 bedrooms, furnished apartment Lost a pair of tinted prescriptioned ----------------an exception. Coors, toast, love and tears pardner. 
I 

within walking distance of campus. glasses in the second floor women's Happy Birthday, Karen! from Colo-Rosemary You made our trip to Texas a right Call William Hill, 232-1724. bathroom of LaFortune. Please re-rado Kid and the Chicago Chik The above personal is not meant to fine time! The Three Yankees ---------------turn them to 135 Lewis or call 6240. I ---------------be taken personally. Happy B-day to --------------­Wanted! Summer renters 5-bed-can't afford a new pair. Hey Sexy! a future in-law. Want a good meal before a good 
1 

room house. Good Locale-excellent ----------------I miss your bod and voice, too! ---------------concert? At Lewisio's tonight. 6 
I 

condition. Rent negotiable. Call J Dear GAH, p.m~ $1.50 Lewis Rec Room 8m4e3n6ts(w)atch for upcoming announce-wANTED ---------------Today's the Day! --------------­
I 

I 
You can't miss quick as a dodo.· ----------------Hello SKR! Hope you survive the ------------------Wanted: Married student coup-le ---------------Karen, interviews. Ditto for Kathy, Eileen, Furnished, 4-bedroom house for (one child okay) to live in, and be ALUMNI-LYONS HAPPY HOUR Cherish the past for the lessons it & other assorted interviewers G I 
rent, next September. Phone companions to 3 teen-age boys. FRIDAY, 3-6 P.M. AT THE has taught and the memories it _____________.:__ 
1 

277-3604. Room and board in exchange. LIBRARY. holds. Happy Birthday fat Karen Crowley ---------------Would be required to cook family ---------------Appreciate the present for the of 353 Farley Hall. 
1

I 
Excellent 4-6 bedroom houses in dinner, do light housework and do BE YOURSELF FOR A CHANGE. moments it allows us to share. ---------------I fine neighborhoods. On & off River-minor house repairs. Exchange ref-GAY COMMUNITY OF NOTRE Anticipate the future for the Mokey, I have waited so long for this side Drive. Contact Mr. Gatto erences.Call288-1411or291-1814. DAME, PHONE 8870, FRIDAY opportunitytogrowandacontinued weekend, I hope Sunday never • 234-6688 Ask for Joan. AND SATURDAY NIGHTS 10-12. promise of tomorrow. comes. I have not felt this good in a 1 ----------------·---------------
P.O. 206, But most of all, enjoy today for it 1
ALSO, BOX NOTRE long lime. Love ya, Pokey Rooms for rent this summer. Very Need ride to NY~ area to leave April DAME, IND., 46556. is yours. --------------­
I 

I 
reasonable, and just a few blocks 4th or 5th. Share driving and ---------------Happy Birthday! Happy Bir!hday Barb! Love, Sue from Notre Dame. ·Phone 277-3604. expenses. Call 882o. The Quickie will run this Saturday Love, --------­
I 

I 
------------------------------night. Usual times and places. Info Tom Renl f!IY upstairs. $40.00 per month. Need ride to & from Ft. Lauder-call 7638. --------------­Call 233-1329. dale area tor Easter break. Ci\IJ ------------~--V. 
I 

1--------------­
leave Wed. Will help with expenses. Quick as a dodo is coming. Just call me irrP<' onsible 11 Two bedroom house to rent. Sum-Please contact Cris 4 4983 or Beth ---------------sounds better 
I 

mer and-or school year. 1012 Eddy Need a fnend? ND-SMC Hotline ______ _
4 4992 
treet. $120 mo. plus ut1h!Jes. Call ___·_______.!...____ -4 4311 open nights .. 

ddies Harris at 232-8563. --------------­
--------------------------------~---~~-----­
--~-----...-----~-~------------~ -~ -­
r 
12 the observer Friday, March 25, 1977 r 
I 
I 
~ 
Netters seek to improve 'ortunes 
by Tom Powanda Sports Writer 

Bad luck seems to describe it 
well. Just ask Tom Fallon, coach of 
the Notre Dame tennis team. 

Entering his twentieth year as head 
mentor of the netters, Fallon 
looked to 1977 with enthusiasm. 

In the fall, Fallon saw his team in excellent shape with four returning singles players from last year's squad along with a good crop of eager freshmen and sophomores. 
Bad news hit early for Fallon as he learned in January that he would be without the services of senior Rick Slager due to gradu­ation. Slager had been a mojor contributor to the 1976 campaign helping the team to a 16-8 record. Another disappointment was the loss of freshman Chris Fallon to academic probation. 
Still the Irish fielded a strong team captained by senior Randy Stehlik. Out of Peru, Indiana, Stehlik has many accomplishments to his credit. While captaining his high school team he won 68 straight singles and doubles matches including the Indiana High School championship his ju­nior year. On the college level, he and Slager teamed last yt;ar to win the "A" crown in doubles in the Eastern Collegiate Championships. 
Playing both the number one and two slot last year, Stehlik compiled a 16-10 record. 
Starting the season strong, the Irish captured the first three matches of their spring trip easily, defeating Bellarmine College and Guilford College while squeaking out a S-4 victory over High Point CollP.,c:. 
Playing in competition every day took its toll on the Irish. After three victories, things turned out sour for the netters as they went on to loose their next four matches.
Ted Robinson::::=================================:============·=·=·=·==:=:=:=:=::;:;:;:::=====:=:===========:==::;:;:::===:===:::;:;:;:.:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;::=:===:=============::;:;::::=:==:=======:=====:===:==· 
Beyond the Score 
Hoopla 

:=~:~;:=~;=~~:~~:=~~~~===~~=r~=~=~~==i;~;=:;~~=:~~~=t:=~~~:===::======:========~~;~~;~~==i~==:~=~=~~~=~=~=:~=~=~===~~=~x=~=~i;=~=:=;=~=:==~:;~T~~~~;=;t~:>\t 
Playing two of the top twenty teams 
in the nation on consecutive days 
the Irish fell victim to North 
Carolina and Duke while also losing 
to Virginia Tech and Eastern 
Kentucky. 
Just one day before Digger Phelps and his team was to suffer a disappointing loss to the same sGhool, the tennis team was shut out by the Tar Heels of North Carolina 9-0, failing to even win a set. On the following day the Irish suffered another setback to Duke by the score of 8-1. 
Continuing their slide, Notre Dame again went down to defeat at the hands of Virginia Tech by the score of 7-2. The score however did not reflect the play of the Irish as three ofthe losses came in three set victories by the Gobblers. The same type of match was played against Eastern Kentucky as the Irish suffered their fourth defeat in a row by the score of 8-1. This time five of the matches were decided in three sets with Notre Dame losing on all five occasions. 
Besides the four consecutive losses, Fallon received more disap­pointing news. Brian Hainline, the number two player for Notre Dame who compiled a 17-4 record last year, and tony Bruno, who filled the number four slot for the Irish, both informed Fallon that they decided to concentrate on their studies and were no longer going to play tennis for Notre Dame. Bruno and Hainline are both juniors enrolled in the college of science as pre-med majors. 
Looking to end their losing streak at four, the-revamped Irish traveled to Ball State for their next match. With only five men on the squad including an injured Stehlik, Fallon called on sophomore Mark True­blood to suit up and join the team in Muncie for Monday's match. 
Trueblood started the fall season at a singles spot but lost it during the winter practice. Out of St. Francis High School in LaCanada, California, Trueblood captained his high school team both his junior and senior year and led them to the league championship in his final season. 


For spring break, Trueblood decided to remain in South Bend and practice his tennis rather than takimg a vacation even though he was not traveling with the squad on their southern trip. At Ball State his determination paid off as his 7-6, 6-2 victory in the sixth singles slot boosted the Irish to a S-4 victory and raising their season record to the same mark, S-4. 
There were some bright spots for the Irish on their spring tour. 
When the NCAA basketball tournament moves to the final four this weekend in Atlanta. UCLA won't be there for the first time since 1966. If people are surprised. they shouldn't be. Anyone who watched their first-round game with Louisville could see the ~aring weakness in the Bruin middle. Wesley Cox went inside at will against Vroman. Sims and Wendeweghe, but Brad Holland's superb perfor­mance saved the Bruins. Gene Bartow better start recruiting players in the Wooden mold, or else he won't be around to see the Pac-8 become the Pac-1 0. 
If you're looking for a Coach of the Year, don't go any further than Dean Smith of North Carolina. He guided an injury-riddled team past three teams that had more talent by combination of frequent substitution and the most aggressive defense in the college game. Smith molds his players into certain roles and gets the most out of them (ND shoots 67 percent from the floor and out-rebounds UNC and loses). 
After UCLA's demise, Nevada-Las Vegas sur­vived the West regional. But they've never seen a team play defense like North Carolina. Jerry Tarkanian will have to get the run-and-gun show in high gear to handle the Tar Heels. Don't bet on it. 
Michigan's loss to North Carolina-Charlotte proved them to be the most overrated team in the country this year. Phil Hubbard was the soul of that team; Rickey Green lived off his rebounds and outlet passes. But the Wolverines lacked the killer instinct when they caught Charlotte in the seconci half, but couldn't put them away despite horrendous foul shooting by the 49ers. 
Remember Greg Sanders? He scored 30 points for St. Bonaventure at the ACC last year against the Irish. People said who's he? Otis Birdsong found out who Sanders was in the NIT last Sunday. While Otis shot from the lobby. and played defense out there also. Sanders scored 40 points and the Bonnies upset thP favored Cougars. 
From an anonvmous source in the front office of an NBA team, the first five players picked in the NBA draft (in order) will be: Mike Thompson. Kent Benson. Otis Birdsong. Marques Johnson. and Kenny Carr. Thompson and Carr will be hardship selections. as will Tennessee's Bernard King. but the pros are hesitant about Bernie. The New York Post reported last week that Tennessee was ready to throw King out of school in the fall when he threatened to go to the NC;\;\ with recruiting violations in the Vols · pursuit of Bernard Kin g. 
Not many people know it. hut Gene Shill' has the resides in the 6-11. 251 pound frame of Darryl Dawkins on the end of his bench. Anyone who wants to start a franchise should start around Dawkins. He dwarfs George McGinnis, which is like dwarfing a Mack truck. He also possesses a shooting touch which many guards would like to have. and the quickness of most guards. Simply, he is going to be an awesome ballplayer. just ask him. All he lacks is the playing time. and as Caldwell Jones contracts the dreaded Duane Thomas disease, Dawkins should get that time. 
Julius Erving told me after Sunday's 76er-Net game at the Nassau Coliseum that he doesn't think about the Nets anymore. He shouldn't. Their combined payroll. e~en with Archibald. is $650.000. Add up Walt Frazier and Bob McAdoo's salaries, and you have more than the entire Net squad. The Knicks have won only 12 more games than the Nets this year. 
Jimmy Young's victory over George Foreman was a disgrace. Young, who in IS rounds hit Muhammed Ali once, knocked the supposedly invincible Fore­man down. The seventh round proved Foreman's impotence as he had Young defenseless for 60 seconds and couldn't land one clean punch. Bring back Jerry Quarry. 
Remember Bill Drew'? He was agood-shooting swingman for the Irish basketball team two years ago. Last week. he \\as seen scoring 7 points in overtime of Syracuse's upset win over Tennessee. 
Meanwhile. Alex Ptrus is in a hot streak in Minnesota. Teamed on the same line with Swedish star Roland Ericsson and Olympian Steve Jensen. Alex scored four goals last week to raise his season total to 17. The North Stars arc tighting for a play-off berth. and a late surge by Pints could give them four rookies as 2f)-goal scorers. 
Irish All-American Brian Walsh has been with the WH;\'s Calgary Cowboys for the past 2 weeks on a five-game trial basis. Dukie had two points in his first game against Cincinnati. and is reported!~· playing well. Calgarv also signed Minnesota dcfenseman .Joe Micheletti to a three year contract. 
One tina! word about the sudden end to the Notre Dame hockev sea~on. It would be easv to write the usual post-1;10rtems. but the accomr;lishments of this year's team don't need that. What was realh tragic about the pla:.·ofb was the line on the top of the scorc~hect that reads "i\ttendam"C ... In the WCH;\ l'lavofl's. the hockc\ !cam·~ !-.IIJlporl is forevn listed a~ 214.1 and 24.1S. 
Freshman Carlton Harris came away with four victories on the road. Out of Greensboro, North Carolina, Harris led Greensboro Day School to a conference title his senior year along with captaining the squad. He was school MVP his sophomore and senior year, and his final season with Greensboro he was named Conference Player of the Year. Coach Fallon describes the rookie sensation as a dash of frosh exhuberance. 
The other sophomore from California is Bob Koval out of Vista. Sitting out last year with a broken leg, Koval has contributed two victories in singles while suffering one defeat and has come away with five wins in eight tries in doubles competition. Koval's doubles partner is another sopho­more returning from last year's squad. Marty Horan out of W othington High School in Worth­ington, Ohio contributed nine wins in doubles and eight wins in singles as a freshman for the Irish. Already the sophomore has iden­tical S-3 records in both singles and doubles. In high school he lettered in tennis all four years and cap­tained the team his final season. His senior year was highlighted by reac.1ing the state finals in singles. 
After coming away with four victories which saw the Irish net­ters play eight matches in ten days coach Fallon has until April 3 to regroup before the team travels to Indiana St. and then on to Illinois. The Irish host their first home match April 6 against Michigan at the Courtney Tennis Center. 
Spring sailing 
The Notre Dame Sailing Oub will hold its annual icebreaker regatta this Saturday and Sunday on St. Joseph's Lake. The club cordially invites everyone to attend this novice skipper's regatta. 
Racing begins at 9 a.m. Saturday and all newcomers will be wel­comed and given an opportunity to compete. 
Sailing against the Irish will be a dozen Midwestern schools includ­ing Northwestern University, Mar­quette, Miami of Ohio and the University of Wisconsin. 
This regatta traditionally marks the official opening of the Midwest­ern Collegiate Sailing Association's racing season. Among those sailing for Notre Dame will be Jay Kiley, Martha Bovle and Don Condit. 
For further information contact Paul Schappler at 8933 or Lory Kerger at 5408. 
ITony Pace 

Pace's Picks 
Well. the NCAA is down to the coveted final four berths and the champion will be crowned this coming Monday evening in Atlanta. Tournament play thus far has mirrored the regular season play. There have been upsets galore and there is no one team that stands above the rest. For this reason, the task of picking this year's tournament winner will be difficult for any prognasticator. Here are Pace's Picks for the Omni extravaganza: 
SEMIFINALS 
Marquette over North Carolina-Charlotte by 4 points: The attention starved 49ers are the remaining Cinderella team in this tourney. but the exposure may give them stage fright. True, they did go to the finals of the National Invitation Tourney last season and they did beat Michigan, but it may be pumpkin time once they realize where they are playing. The memories of last year's Rutgers team have had a large influence on this choice. Also, for one of the few times in the history of Marquette basketball, the Warriors may actually be motivated to play superior basketball. Bernard Toone is the player that must lead McGuire's farewell address. 
Nevada-Las Vegas over North Carolina by 2 points: This pick is contrary to popular belief. Many feel that if the game is close, Phil Ford will win it for Carolina. However, Ford will not be in any condition to run the grueling four corner offense. Even if he is. there is Walter Davis' broken finger and Tom LaGarde's ruined knee. The Tar Heels will not be able to duplicate their performance of last weekend. They have to miss some shots once in a while. Jerry Tarkanain has finally gotten a team to the final four and it is unlikely that his club will pull an "el foldo" yet... 
FINAl$ 
Marquette over Nevada-Las Vegas by 3 points: The Warriors have alwavs had a team that never seemed to expend any energy. but recently they have caught fire. As earlier stated. the man is Toone. "Looney Tune" is an athlete in the tradition of the infamous Joe Don Looney, a talented football player who never found his niche. He has all the potential in the world yet he sits on the bench. Two years ago he was one of the hottest prospects in the nation o~t of Gorton High School in Yonkers, New York. Now. however. he IS sitting on the bench watching Bill Neary. a very mediocre player. sec action in front of him. Toone has all of the offensive firepower that anv coach could want and he is the ace up AI McGuire's sleeve. He scored 18 points against Wake Forest in last week's final of the Midwest regional and that ma~· onl.v be a sign of what is to come. Even if Toone docs not pia~· as expected. Butch Lee and Bo Ellis are money pla~·cr .... and thcv will gel the job done in the waning moments of an_v game. 
As for the Rcbl'i~. thl'\' rclv L·ompll'lch· on a hcltcr skclter br;111d of ha.~kl'lhall. What'' ill happ<'n in the final nHHnenls of a game if it i" rio..,c'! Willlhl' Rl'ht'l\ h,· ahil' 111 run :t ~t·t pia\·'? UNL.V ''ill hl' in trouble if thl" '-'alllt' is ,·J,,~l' 
Thai i~ 11ll\. ;\I Md;uin· ,,ill,,. ·'il! a 11inncr. 








