

server 

an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's 
Vol. XI, No. 78 
Student officials claim Morgan responsible for Union audit 
by Gregg B. Bangs Executive Editor 

Several Student Union and Stu­
dent Government officials claim 
Student Union Comptroller 
Marianne Morgan is responsible 
for the upcoming audit of Student 
Union, not Kenn Ricci, director of 
the Union, as was reported in a 
front page article in yesterday's 
Observer. 
Student Body President Mike Gassman, Associate Student Union Director Walt Ling and Treasurer Eric Ryan all agree that Morgan initiated and carried through the plans for the audit. 
"As far as I know, Marianne Morgan did it all," Ryan said yesterday. "Without her wanting an audit, there probably wouldn't be one planned." 
"She wanted an audit all along," Ling mentioned. "Kenn mentioned the possibility of it last year, but I didn't hear anything from him about it in quite awhile." 
Ricci states that "it was on Marianne's (Morgan) recommen­dation and what we had heard that I authorized an order to initiate an audit." 
"Marianne can only make a recommendation, the director alone can make the official state-
Gunman releases hostage 
INDIANAPOLIS (AP) -A gun­man ft:eed the mortgage company executive he had held hostage for three days and was taken into custody by police last night. 
The hostage was not hurt. 
. The gunman, Anthon~ G. Ki~t­sts, 44, was taken away tn a pohce car. . 
Imt?edtately after he removed the wtre that ~onnected a sa,wed-off s~o~g~n to. Rtc.~~rd 0. Hall s neck, Kt.ntst~ satd, I.ve w~nted to. ~~e thts .t~m.g ever stnce I ve ha~ t!· 
Ktrttsts then. left the butldmg, fired a shot mto the sky and retur.ned to the ~oom, breathing h~avtly. Four poh~eman gra~bed htm, handcuffed htm and whtsked 
Falling ice injures student 
A Notre Dame junior suffered a minor concussion yesterday when ice, falling from the roof of La­Fortune, struck him on the head. 
John Loria was walking out the north door of the building at approximately 4:30 p.m. when the accident occurred. Loria was taken to the infirmary and then to the emergency room at St. Joseph's hospital, where he was treated and released. Loria also injured his jaw in the incident. 
According to a security spokes­man, a three-speed bicycle near the door was also "smashed up" by the falling ice. The bicycle did not belong to Loria. 
Immediately after the accident, Brother John Benesh, director of Student Affairs, locked the north door and Security barricaded the area. 
This is the first such incident reported, according to Director of Security Arthur Pears. Due to the danger of an accident occurring again, Pears warns students not to walk close to the edge of buildings. He also cautions students to be careful going in and out of doors of the older buildings with overhangs from which ice and snow may fall during the warrner weather. 
ment," Ricci said in reference to his announcing the start of an official audit this Monday. 
Gassman claims Morgan ap­proached him with the proposal for the audit during the second semes­ter of the 1976-77 school year. "Marianne came to me· and said she wanted Student Union audited. She went to Ricci and suggested it to him. Ricci then went to a meeting and had it suggested to him by Fr. Burtchaell that an audit be conducted," Gassman account­ed. "In no way did Ricci think up this audit; Marianne Morgan has been in charge throughout the year." 
Ricci does not remember if Morgan came to him before or after he went to meet with Burtchaell. 
Morgan admits she's been trying to get an audit done "since taking office" last April. "I brought the idea to him (Ricci) last April and he was very reluctant to do it. In September I found an insurance policy that stated we had to have an audit done every year. The last one we had done was in January, 1972. Since I discovered this I've been trying to get one started." 
In yesterday's article, Ricci claimed there had been three audits over the last five years. 
Morgan said the first official 
him into the back seat of a patrol car. 
Hall was removed from the building on a stretcher but was coherent and calm. 
Asked by reporters if he was all right, he replied, "Yes, I am. Thank ~ou."· 
Desptte the stretcher, authorities said the 42-year-old mortgage executive was not hurt. 
Fred Heckman, news director at radio station WIBC, who had talked with Kiritsis repeatedly by tele­phone during the 62-hour siege, was in the room when Kiritsis freed Hall. 
Heckman said Kiritsis looked in disbelief as he was grabbed by police. Earlier, Marion County authorities had promised him im­munity from prosecution on state and local charges. 
However, Heckman said, Indi­anapolis Police Chief Eugene Gal­lagher said, "Tony, you lied. You said you would let that man go before you came down." 
An hour before Kiritsis freed Hall, he had brought the hostage downstairs from his apartment and shouted at reporters. 
Authorities said Kiritsis had promised to release Hall before meeting with reporters. 
Marion County Deputy Prosecu­tor was furious. "That rotten son of a bitch!" he yelled. "If we had known this, we would have poison­ed the son of a bitch!" 
It was 10:20 p.m. when Kiritsis led Hall out his apartment, which the gunman claimed he had booby-trapped with 100 pounds of dyna­mite. 
Cursing bitterly, Kiritsis com­plained to reporters that Hall's company had swindled him on a real estate loan. 
At one point he shouted: "I'm a god-damned national hero and don't you forget it." 
Kiritsis, whose three-year loan was due at the end of this month, enumerated several wrongs he said the company had perpetrated against him. They included what he called attempts to block two dis­count supermarkets from locating on the land where he wants to build offer for conducting an audit was made to the Beta Alpha Psi Accounting chapter at Notre Dame approximately two weeks ago. "I had been in contact with Prof. David Campbell (Asst. Prof., Ac­countancy) and Joe Coyne ( of Beta Alpha Psi) and they agreed for the chapter to do it two weeks ago,'' she explained. 
"An audit does not deserve the stigma attached to it. It is supposed to help keep accounts better and see where things have to be worked on," Morgan said. "I wanted to start off the year fresh, but apparently Kenn wasn't too keen on the idea.'' Morgan favors having an audit done every year, as do Gassman and Ling. 
Ricci did not want an audit done at the beginning of this school year because he felt there was nothing to account for. "You don't do an audit when you have nothing to look at. We weren't far enough into the semester," he said. 
In yesterday's article, Ricci said "the Student Union is not being audited because of financial prob­lems." This statement was disa­greed on by both Gassman and Ling. 
"Contrary to the popular belief he (Ricci) is holding, Marianne wanted the audit because of the 
a small shopping center. 
While talking, Kiritsis constantly shoved Hall around as the hostage grimaced 
•'They . god-damned near made me blow his head off '' Kiritsis said, referring to the' mortgage company. 
"I'm the only m-----f-----mean enough to stand this. This man (Hall) had seen me suffer and die. I had her (the apartment) rigged, pal,'' Kiritsis said. 
Thirty minutes after leaving the apartment, Kiritsis and Hall walked down a hallway in the apartment building where police had set up their command post. The gunman and his hostage entered a room for further negotia­tions with police and mortgage company representatives. 
Ki:itsis had demanded immunity from state and federal prosecution. Local authorities promised him immunity and said federal immun­ity was "in the making." 
But U.S. Atty. James B. Young said the Justice Department would not bargain with Kiritsis. A Justice Department spokesman in Wash­ington confirmed Young's state­ment; 
When a reporter asked Young if Kiritsis would be granted immunity from any possible federal charges, Young replied, "Nope." The re­porter repeated the question, and Young once again replied, "Nope." 
Young added that Kiritsis would be treated fairly. The U.S. attorney said the gunman should •'trust his government." 
Earlier last night, Martz made a live broadcast over local radio and television siations, repeating that Kiritsis had been granted immun­ity on state charges. 
Marion County authorities told the gunman that federal immunity was unnecessary because no feder­
a) offense had been committed. Nevertheless, Martz said at that time that federal immunity was ''in the making." 
Kidnaping generally is consider­ed a ferieral offense only if the kidnaper takes his victim across a state line. 
Student Government Treasurer Eric Ryan is one of the Student Government and Student Union officials who claim Marianne Morgan, not Kenn Ricci, is responsible for the upcoming audit of Student Union. 
situation we're in," said Gassman. she holds--Student Union Comp­
''When the majority of your budget troller. At the present time, the 
is gone by the end of January, an comptroller is a member of the staff 
audit should be held. Student ofthe Student Union and reports to 
Union is not in good financial the director, who in this case is 
condition as far as I'm concerned. Ricci. Morgan would like to see this 
They need this audit.'' post independent of both Student 
In news relating to the upcoming Union and Student Government, as audit, Morgan said Joe Coyne and the position of Treasurer currently 
Dan Osberger are in charge of the is. 

audit. Cathy Malkus is not, as was "The Comptroller is supposed to reported, in charge of the opera­check on the respective budgets of tion. J.R. Maronick, Kevin Dorian, Student Union and make sure they Ellen Carnahan and Gayla Moli­don't go over their budget. How­nelli will be in charge of the four ever, I'm not independent to do so. groups that will audit the separate I could be fired by the Student commissions of Student: Union . Union Director, so my office at "Not one of tnose people is present is a poor check on the associated with Student Union, so system. There is always the danger we can guarantee there will be no of putting in a yes man and having bias toward the organization,'' the director do what he wants. Morgan said. There is a need for a checks and balances system. Making the ComptroUer should be Independent Comptroller independent of Stu­dent Union would do this," she 
Morgan also disagreed with Ricci explained. on the current status of the position (continued on page 5-) 
Hesburgh replies to critics 
by Dave O'Keefe Staff Reporter 
University President Fr. Theo­dore Hesburgh reacted to calls for his resignation as chairman of the ~ockefeller Foundation by charg­tng that his critics were misinform­ed about the group's stand on the issue of abortion. 
Hesburgh has recently been the target of anti-abortion leaders throughout the country who have charged that the Foundation has funded research into methods of abortion and sterilization. 
Hesburgh admitted that some research is being conducted in facilities established by the Foun­dation. "We have funded great medical centers that have done research into the biochemical and biophysical aspects of reproduct­tion.'' 
Hesburgh expiained that these investigations are indeed aimed at developing methods of birth con­trol. "The goal of this research is ::o come up with methods of contra­ception that would be amenable to a wide variety of cultural and religious beliefs," he said. 
Regarding the charges levelled at him, Hesburgh commented, "The people who made these statements obviously aren't famil­iar with the work of the Rockefeller Foundation.'' 

Citing the organization's motto, "For the good of mankind every-. where,',' Hesburgh added that the Foundation has led the way in· finding a cure for Yellow Fever, spearheaded the "Green Revolu­tion,'' which has resulted in new sources of food for the world, and has made vast contributions to cultural and educational advance­ments throughout the world, be­sides being involved in the medical research that has caused the cur­rent controversy. 
"'Someone went so far as to call the Rockefeller Foundation an 'abortion mill','' Hesburgh contin­ued. "Anyone who reads the record wouldn't go off making those irresponsible statements,'' he added, referring to the Foun<l'\­tion's recent annual report. 
"The Foundation has nothing to do with abortion. In fact, you'll never find t!le word 'abortion' in the report," he said. 
Hesburgh also said he realized that anyone involved in public works is subject to criticism. But he added that he felt the critics should "know the facts" before they make inflammatory statements. 
Hesburgh reported that the re­cent controversy has in no way interfered with the execution of his duties as chairman of the Founda­tion nor with the work of the group. He has no intention of resigning his position. 

-

Friday, February 11~9?7___
2 
the observe_r 

.---On Campus Toda~}--­
friday 
noon­
12:15 pm ­
4 pm-4:30pm­
5:15pm ­7 pm-
7:30pm­
7:30pm­7:30pm­8 pm­
3 pm­9-12 pm­saturday 11 am-
noon-
2:30pm­7:30pm­7:30pm­
8,pm­
8:30pm­
9pm­midnight­
sunday 
3 pm­
5 pm­
8 pm­
8 pm-

travelogue series, "a botanist in san francisco" by 
dr. theodore crovello, n.d., galvin aud. 
seminar, "propagation of heptitis b antigen in tissue cultures of human hepatoma cells" by dr. j.j. alexander, national institute for biology dept. of health, republic of south africa, galvin aud. 
swimming, wayne state univ. at n.d. 
colloquium, "automotphism groups of forms" by prof. loats solomon, univ. of wisconsin, room 226 computer center/math building. 
mass and dinner, bulla shed. 
bible study, campus crusade for christ, flanner penthouse. 
world travel film, "hawaiian chucklelogue" by stan midgley, o'laughlin aud. 
hockey, north dakota at n. d., ace. 
wrestling, drake univ. at n.d. 
black cultural arts festival, feature performance by bernandine oliphint soprano, washington hall. 
bridge, duplicate bridge, university club. 
recording artist bob hardy, sandwiches and pizza available, nazz, admission $1. 
swimming, marshall univ. at n.d. 
wrestling, univ. of evansville & valparaiso univ. at n.d. 
basketball, south carolina at n.d. ace. 
hockey, north dakota at n.d. ace. 
meeting, society for creative anachronism, topic: tolkien ecture series & unexpected party, Iafortune rathskeller. 
black cultural arts festival, art exhibition opening and panel discussion with : carol ann carter, graphics, printmaker; larry sykes, naturalist photographer; bing davis, ceramicist, isis gallery. 
we're gaming: society for creative anachronism, dungeons and dragons, (it's a game·, folks), Iafortune rathskeller. 
max bunster quartet, sandwiches and pizza avail­able, nazz, admission free. 
·recital, cheryl pesdan and sharon pocus piano and voice recital, smc little theatre. 
vegetarian meal sponsored by hunger coalition , fr. hesburgh and nathan gray of oxford famine relief (oxfam) scheduled speakers, lewis rec room. 
film series, "i vitelloni" carroll hall, sponsored by nd/smc theater, tickets: $1. 
sophomore literary festival, ken kesey, washingtonhall. 
Bar managers 

sought for'77-'78 
by Dave Kavanaugh 

Applications are now available for Senior Bar manager and assis­tant managers for next year, accor­ding to Rich Johnson, current assistant manager. 
Students applying for the posi­tions must be seniors next year and have a minimum grade point average of 3.0. The manager must be an accounting major and will be in charge of all bookkeeping. One assistant manager will be respon­sible for stocking the bar and scheduling employees, while the other assistant manager will be in charge of all advertising, promo­tions, private parties and special nights. Both assistants are re­quired to work at least two nights a week and experience with oper­ating a bar is desired. 
Qualified applicants will be ·in­terviewed by the present mangers. The Senior Bar also needs a 
live-in janitor, who will receive free housing and a salary. All positions 
are salaried.

Applications are available at the 
Office of Student Affairs, Room 315, Administration Building. The 

Myth dispelled 


Skiing not rich man's sport 
In an attempt to dispell the "mythical belief that skiing is a rich man's sport," Ski Industries America (SIA) issued"a few basic rules" that will allow a person to "enjoy lots of inexpensive good times on the slopes in the years to come" 
"The fact is that youcan learn to ski in a week, enjoy a vacation and do it for as little as $100. and that you can continue to ski for less than you would ever believe possible,'' they stated. 
SlA suggests the new skier not buy any ski equipment until he knows what types of skis best suit him, what boots are m0st comfor­table and what ski poles are the right length. 
They further advise the skier to rent equipment from a ski area then knows what type of skier he is. The new skier should be outfitted with equipment designed specifically to make it easier to learn to ski, •h,v advised. 
"If you rent from a ski school that specializes in teaching begin­ners, the chances are the rental fee will be part of the instruction cost, and that saves you money," SlA stated. 
When skiing for the first time SIA suggests the skier go to a 
f*The Observerl 
Night Editor: Bob Brink 
Asst. Night Editor: Katie 
Kerwin, Rosemary Mills 
Layout Staff: Marti Hogan, 
Laurie McNulty 
Editorial layout: Jerry Hickey 
Features layout: Chris Smith 
Sports layout: Tony Pace 
Typists: Gwen Coleman, Sue 
Shellenbarger, Mary Mc­
Cormick, Stephanie Urillo 
E.M.T: Terri Harlan Day Editor: Mary Pat Tarpey Copy Reader: Barbara Breit­enstein, Barb Langhenry Ad layout: Tom Walrath 
lPhotographer: Joe Burns ) 
llu· ( ll"r·r\r•r" puhl"hr·d .\.\ond.l\ throu>.:h I rtd.l\ ,111d l\l't·~il ''"""'-: 
tht· "'llllllllt•r ..,f'..,..,ltH1 t'\( t·pt dunn~ tl11· ,.,,till ,tnd \dt dlHifl pt•nod.., 1ht• ( Jh"'l 1<'1 "puhlr,ht•d h1 'tlldt•flh ot tbt· llll\t·l,rl\ ot '\;otn· llo~rn•· and '>I .\.l.trl ' ( 'ollt·~·· ~uh" rrptllllh Jll,\\ f,,. pure b.l"'d lnr '1>211 p<'r ,t•.tr I' 111 pt-r wnH·,tt·rf from llw Obwr l<'r flo\ <). '-;otn• D.tllll'. lndr.tn.t 4b"i'ib \t•t <H,d I l.t" Jli"I.IJ.:<" Jhtrd. Notrt· D.HlH'. lndltHid -tb=i1h 
I ht• ( lb"·nt·r '' .t nwrnlll'r oi th<' ·""'" t,!tt•d l'rt•" ·\II n•productron nght" (tn• n•,t•nt·d 

TEACHING POSITIONS 
Math -PhysicsEngineering degrees 
The U.S. Navy has a limited number of openings for teachers in its graduate and undergraduate level Nuclear Engineering Program. This is a highly selective program which does not require a teaching degree or prior experience, but does require exceptional undergraduate academic ac­complishment in Math, Physics, or Engineering. Starting pay $10,500 and increases to $16,00 in three years plus full benefits and privileges of a Naval Officer. This is a teaching position only, there are no military duties. 
REQUIREMENTS 
AGE: Maximum 28 
SEX: Male or Female 

CITIZENSHIP: U.S. Citizen 
E

DUCATION: Minimum undergraduate GPA 3.5 in Math, Physics, or Engineering
J t · t PI t Qff'
n ervtews a acemen Ice
14 16 p b 

-e fUafy, 
'-l~ll<t.Lln.~.l\ W~qi>J.~.:>?;~.y., ·f.~b,-,1.6.-,~ '·' ...1liiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii~iiiiiiiii!iiiiiiiiiiiiliiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiilii.iiiiiiiiiiiiliiiiiiiliiiil 
resort on a ski vacation package for areas, higher at areas with more four or five days in the middle of facilities, SlA noted. the week. "Select a resort that "Don't forget the ski resorts that offers a ski vacation package are close to you," they reminded, designed for beginners," they adding that a skier could commute added. to avoid lodging expense. 
SlA stated that the most com­SlA also suggests skiing with a plete vacation packages will in­group, which would allow the skier clude a week of ski lessons, two to rent a conominium and cook hours or more a day; ski tickets for meals, thus saving money. five days, good on all lifts; rental of "The family, couple or single ski equipment, short skis for the who wants to learn to ski should beginner; lodging and meals. follow these rules until they know 
A ski week can be purchased for for sure whether they really likd 
$100 at small or medium-sized skiing." SIA concluded. 
The University of Notre Dame Press 
Announces the Publication of 
THOSE OF THE STREET: 
The Catholic Jews of Mallorca 
by Kenneth Moore 

Now Available 
The Social Commission presents 




BRUCE 
Bus trip to Chicago Auditorium 
WEDNESDAY FEB. 23 
a limited supply of tickets are available, however if the demand increases more buses will be added. 
TICKETS ON SALE AT THE 
S.U. TICKET..OFFICE 

TODAY 
PRICE $17.50 
(includes round trip & great seat) 
Dutch Audion at Mr. Motor Home!!! LIMITED BICENTENNIAL EDITION LUXURY FREEDOM VAN REDUCED $1.00 EVERY HOUR SINCE JAN .. 15.  

 
ORIGINAL PRICE $9,995.00 ' MR. MOTOR HOME DISCOUNT 995.00 JANUARY15 PRICE $9,000.00 AND GOING DOWN AT THE RATEOF$1 PER HOUR UNTIL SOLD! 10844 MCKINLI:Y HWY. Mr. Motor HomeOSCEOLA, IND. 674-9937  


Friday, February 11, 1977 the observer 
---------.-----­


SLC approves campus social center 
b,· Joe Slo,·inec Red Barn could be "left to the Staff Reporter imagination of the people who want 
The Student Life Council (SLC) to work on it. recently approved a proposal to The original proposal by Charlie either construct a new campus Moran to renovate the Red Barn social center or renovate the "Red went to the administration in May, Barn" for that purpose. After the 1976. Problems were encountered SLC unanimously approved the because the administration thought proposal on Feb. 8. the Council the area of the Red Barn would be referred it to the University officers needed for expanded women's for a decision. -graduate housing. However. Stu-
Student Body President Mike dent Affairs Vice President Bro. Gassman statect"that Student Union Just Paczesny saw merit in the Special Projects Commissioner proposal and was willing to recon­Charlie Moran and SBVP Mike" sider it this year, according to Casev extensively researched the Gassman. 
·vario.us possibilities for location of Moran revised his proposal to the campus social center. The request the building of a new social purposes of the new facility would center facility if the Red Barn area be to "provide a party house for was needed for graduate women's hall parties, to provide a dance hall housing. Moran asked a group of for underclassmen and to provide a fifth-year Architecture students for discotheque-bar for the entire cam-a projection of the costs of building pus" if the Indiana drinking age is a new facility. lowered. This facility could also be The architecture students in­used for summer storage by stu-eluded costs of new asphalt walk­dents. ways. heat, plumbing, and electric-
Gassman said that the Red Barn, ity in their total projected cost near D-1 parking lot, is currently figure of $50.000 to $60,000 for a used as a storage area by mainten· totally new facility. Moran stated ance. The building is the only that it would be cheaper to reo­currently existing facility close ovate the Red Barn because it enough to campus to use for this already has a good concrete foun­purpose, he said. Gassman also dation. The Stepan Center parking commented that other uses of the lot could be used by the Red Barn 
Broadcasters advise student journalists 
by Mary Rukavina Staff Reporter 

John and Christine Lyons, 1965 Notre Dame and St. Mary's grad­uates, shared their experiences in the field of broadcast journalism with Notre Dame and St. Mary's journalism classes yesterday. 
The husband and wife team, who offered advice to the students, are now associated with Newsweek. "We both started locally here in South Bend as students," Chris said. She stated she worked for a Mishawaka newspaper while John started at the campus radio station. "From there, John went on to WNDU," she added. 
They commented that the broad­casting field is competitive, "yet persistence with a little bit of talent is the key to success." John added, "Consistency and not necessarily an abundance of talent is important if you want to get ahead in the business." He explained that "you have to be willing and available to go out and cover several stories.·~ 
Illustrating a broadcast journal­
ist's work, the couple related one of. , their biggest career achievements. While John was employed by WNEW radio in New York. they investigated the transporting of hazardous cargo. such as radio­active materials, aboard commer­
cial airline passenger flights. 

Senior class treasuryenlarged by rebate 
by Mary Ann Layden planes to be sent from New York to Staff Reporter pick up the students. But United already had planes available closer The Notre Dame senior class will and the class would not have to pay add $5700 to their class treasury for extra gas costs from New York. from a United Airlines rebate fron1 N.D. senior class ofticcrs dcbat· the California senior class trip. St. cd three alternatives: gi~ing a Man··~ senior class also received a rebate to each individual who was reoatc from United. on the trip. putting all the money in 
The cla\s will u~e the mone\ to the class trcasurv or splitting the underwrite variou~ class activities r monL'\ in half between the senior including the \enior class formal. da\;. and each individual on the ~enior \H'l'k. '>cnior women's din-Californi<~ trip. ncr. pit·nic-. and any other plans to The das,;, officer-. and the senior he '>chu!ulcd. Senior class Prl'si-advi,orv L'ouncil di'>cusscd the op­dcnt Hob Tullv commented. tion" and tinalh ,·oted to put all the ")·,,t•nthin.~ comi;1.~ upthi'> '>emcv nwnL'\' in the cia'>'> treawrv. .lnhn tcr will he c.xpen'>iH·. A lot of the Donahue. '>enior ,·Ia'>'> tr~·asurer. lll!lllL'\ will help dd'rav the'>t' l'O'>h t·ommcntcd. "Thnt· "'"' a Jot of "" that mon· '>enior'> can partici· thinking. It "a" a hig rebate." patt·... lhl' da-.-. o!Tit-t'l''> l'l'l'ei\cd final 
:1 hc '>t·ninr l'ia"> ol'lin'l''> l{oh ·lulh. appro\ al after II\ o llll't'ting'> \\ ith .John Donahtl<'. llarlt-nt· l'alnta and .John Hcid. a'>'>i-.tanl direl'lor ol Kt·n (;irou<ml. lt-arnt'll of lht· Sludt·nl ,\,·li\ilit''>. Donahue com­n·hatt· la'>l ntonlh. l'nitl'(l .·\irltlll''> nn·nlt·d. ")·\l'l'\ at·lhil\ i-. fm lht: n·ltitHkd lhl'. lllont·\ ht·,·at!'>t' lilt' "IH>It-l'Li">">. and lht· "hok .,·)a"> IJ,~~..._.IJ.il.ll. ..~'<.iiJ• ..fkl.!;.J~.IJ~;.4t.41l·~.+ .......,..ilJ..;~loh<.>.Jol....I-J.;w~l.l ...t.~l.1iJ.l.I•~J:~l·;:••J. 
"The expose involved a lot of time, detail, and setbacks." John said. Chris added. "We were turned down by quite a few stations, including WN EW. in air· ing the story because it was so hot." 
Later the story was aired and it became a radio award-win:1ing series. The printed media then also picked up the story. The series eventually resulted in legislation recently passed by Congress which bans such dangerous materials from being carried in passenger flight cargo. 
Currently working free lance for Newsweek in the broadcasting division. Chris handles the produc­tion. while John is the radio voice. 
The couple has now taken a new..... direction in reporting because the~· believe there is not enough good news being reported. 'especially in broadcast journalism. They now concentrate on average people who arc making news in their own fields. This is an attempt to get away from stories aboutWa~hington ncwsmakers. sensationalism and politics. 
The pair stated that the~· v.. ant to remain in a free lance capacity with Newsweek because it gives them the opportunity to investigate a storv. vet know thcv have a home 
base. · · because of its proximity. 
The funding of the proposed 
renovation is a major concern of the 
administration. Gassman hopes 
that the University will pay the 
costs of l'Onstruction, plumbing. 
heating. and electricity and the. 
Student Goverment could pay the 
costs of interior decorating. 
Moran's report said that "various 
alumni groups and trustees over 
the years have expressed an inter­
est in a party hall." 
The SLC unanimously endorsed 
the Red Barn proposal at its 
meeting and also appointed a 
special committee to examine a 
series of proposals to increase 
social space on campus. SLC 
Faculty Senate Representative 
William Biles stated that the SLC 
committee would like to present 
recommendations on these propos­
als which include the Red Barn 
social center. the renovation of 
LaFortune Center. and more social 
space in the dorms to the adminis­
tration by the end of the 1976-77 
academic year. 
Since Moran's proposal was 
approved by the SLC. the next pending action on it will be taken by the University officers and the Board of Trustees. The University · officers will examine all the finan­cial and construction aspects of the 
new campus social center. No 
definite construction plans can be 
made until the University makes 
the final decision. · 
SMC housing 
crunch relieved 
b) Anne Bachle 
Due to the number of girls who 
transferred. \\ent abroad or moved 
off-campus this semester. many of 
the tcmporarv housing facilities at 
St. Mary's have been returned to 
their original purpose. 
··Not evcn·onc has been 
placed ... · cxpla.incd Housing Di­
rector Minnie Owens. "But all the 
to11-priority rooms have been clear­
ed. We have. in fact nine or ten 
cmptv beds. The girls who arc still 
in temporary housing have the 
option to move. hut it would mean 
nw,·ing in with an upperclassman. 
and thc,.·,e chosen not to do this." 
~he commented. 
The t\·ping room and all but one. 
studv l<umge are now free in 
Mcc'andlcs~. The four girls living 
in a rlassroom in Regina were able 
to mo\e into a quad in another hall. 
In Holv Cross. all the studv 
loungL< i:1cluding the Pebble. 
han' been emptied. Also.. the 
parlor rooms and the TV room ha,·c 
been cleared. 
The Tower in LeMans. which had 
housed eight girls. is now in the 
process of being L'om·ertcd into a 
study lounge. 
"We arL' tr~·ing to sec that the 
. Tower is .being st t up to take l'arc of the studenl!-. · r:~'Cds." Owens stated. She nmed that the lighting is good. and that the room i\ better situated as a stud~· l>~ungc than as a residence fadlitv. c;.peciall~· since all the other study lounges in the hall arc rrowded. 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~--~~-~-vr--~~~~~~ 
a weekend of specials at the senior bar friday afternoon: 100 days till graduation happy hour 2-6 14 ounce beers 25 cents! 

t-shirts and prizes raffled off friday night: ladies night all hereford cow mixes 7 5 cents 9-1 saturday pre-game specials!! open 11:30a~".{9) hot dog 'n be:r 50 ce~tspizza specials too~!~~>---;/ monday:spectal valentines party open 8-2. -\ have we ever let vou do\vn'? .0· -~'\) 
If the University gives its approv­al. Student Government commit­tees would be established to coord­inate work on construction and scheduling of activities in the Center. 
Moran said he would like the campus social center "as a place where people under 21 can dance or relax," since people under 21 have no place to dance or relax within 10 miles of campus. Moran commended the efforts to renovate 

"OH, MY GOD! HE HAS LANDED!!" 
Holy Happy 22nd 



Mike Faucher 
LOVE, TUOETH, JULES, NATTER, BARNEY, RUK, ROTCIE, JULIE, PATTIE, ELLEN, M.B., SUE, CAROL, SHANNON, LIT­TLE O.C., MARY, KIM, LIZ, MARY P., TUTTI, BETH, JO­ANNE, ROSEANNE, V.G.m PATTI & ROBIN, CAROL, JANE & CLAIRA-FAUCET. AND THE TWINS 
Festival 77

~ presents 

~THE NATIONAL THEATRE v OF THE DEAF 
0 "Lively lingers and talking hands" 
Sunday, February 20 7:30PM 
$5.50 $5 $4.50 $4 $3 
and 



Preservation Hall Jazz Band 
0 


"Guaranteed to be a foot·stomper" Friday, March 4 7:30PM $6$5$4$3 Both Events at Morris Civic Auditorium Tickets: St. Mary's College,
K 

Centur) Center-Call 284-9711 

lJ!ttllGE 


PIZZ~!!OR 

':------..LL....I.I.SaJL...L.!!.6.6lo!....Lt....!:~~~!!!-.~~!...!~~~-----l.. 
Game Room 
Hickory Rd. only. 

NOW OPEN 
Hickory Rd. onlv 
pinball foosball 
!COLLEGE NIGHT 
Membership entitles you to: 





Sunday
1 BUCKET OF BEER (2 Pitchers) 

show college I.D. & ge
3 Sl.OO-OFF COUPONS 
lor FAMILY SIZE PIZZA (16") 

$1.00 off 16" Family
1PEASONALIZEO METAL 
BUCKET , _ • 

size Pizza! 
to hang permanently from ~~ our ceiling with name l:[ D · 

40 I N. Hickory Rd. 
and date of membership. etc. , 

T&C
'-.. Alllhisforon/y 55.50 
'-•. A $13 Value!!. 

31N. at Darden Rd 
LaFortune and to create a Rathskel­lar pub but said he believes there is not enough space in LaFortune for a dance hall. "The Student Govern­ment will use our resources through the SLC and this office to sec what we can accomplish," Gassman said. Both Gassman and Moran said they thought the administration was receptive towards the campus social center proposal and are hopeful for its acceptance. 
';"""""-. 
the observer Friday, February 11, 1977 
------------~~----~~---­

Don Newcombe, former star pitcher for the Dodgers, spoke last night about his personal experiences as an alcoholic. (Photo by joe Burns.) 



Former Dodger Newcombe addresses alcohol council 
byTomEder 
"The worst thing we can do about alcoholism is nothing" -this was the theme of last night's presentation, "An Evening with Don Newcombe." The program was presented in the Library Auditorium by the Alcoholism Council of St. Joseph County as the highlight of Alcoholism Action Week. 
The main feature of the evening was an address by Don Newcombe, former Dodgers pitcher, Cy Young Award winner, National League's Most Valuable Player and four­time World Series player. Newcombe has travelled across the country for the past four years as a representative of the National Clearing House on Alcoholism. 
Newcombe, a former alcoholic, related some of his personal exper­iences. The turning point in his life. he revealed. came in 1965. when his wife could no longer accept his alcoholism and consequent behav­ior and told him she wanted a divorce. It was then that Newcombe realized what alcohol­ism was doing to him. 
''I promised my wife then that I would never drink again," New-
Vance appeals to Congress to impose 
U.s. boycott of Rhodesian chrome 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Appeal­ing to Congress to impose a boycott against Rhodesian chrome, Secre­tary of State Cyrus R. Vance said yesterday the Carter administra­tion supports a rapid but peaceful transition to black rule in Rhodesia. 
''The key to peac;e lies in Mr. Ian Smith's hands," Vance said, refer­ring to the white Rhodesian leader. Vance went on to say that a U.S. boycott of Rhodesian chrome would persuade Smith to move in that direction. 
Vance, testifying before the Sen­ate subcommittee on African af­fairs, said the United States would not take charge of any negotiations looking toward black rule and has no intention of becoming involved in a conflict in Rhodesia if Britain fails to arrange a peaceful settle -' ment. 
"In our judgment, clearly the British should play the leading role," Vance said. 
The United Nations has imposed a global boycott of Rhodesian chrome since 1966. However. the United States has refused to honor the boycott because of the congres­sionally imposed Byrd amendment, 
ND enters moot court finals 
Law students at Notre Dame will 
advance to the finals of the 
National Moot Court Competition 
in Houston Feb. 24-26. They will be 
defending a second place national 
ranking accomplished last year in 
their first participation in the 
program. 

Two teams from Notre Dame tied 
for first palce in the Mideast 
Regional Competition conducted 
recently at Valparaiso University 
where law schools from Michigan, 
Ohio and Indiana were represent­
ed. Judges reportedly ranked the 
two teams as equals and rejected 
the customary procedure of maning 
first and second place :inishers. 

Moot Court competition tests the 
litigation and trial skills of law 
school students. A panel of jurists 
and practicing lawyers evaluate the 
competency of the students during 
a practice trial. Moderators for the 
Notre Dame teams are James 
Seckinger, associate professor. and 
John Connaughton. assistant pro­
fessor of law. 

Team members include Mari­
anne Demctral. Detroit; F. James 
Foley. Youngstown, Ohio; Witold 
Sztykicl, East Lansing. Mi<:h.; Su­
o,an Buller, Ogden, Utah; Richard 
Berry, South Bend, and Franny 
Forsman. Notre Dame. Ind. 

which bars U.S. participation. 
Vance and Julius L. Katz, assis­tant secretary for economic and business affairs. urged repeal of the Byrd amendment and offered assurances that repeal would im­pose no economic hardships on the United States, although the price of chrome might increase slightly. 
Katz said a relatively new tech­nology permits increased use of ores found in South Africa. Brazil and other countries instead of Rhodesian and Russian material. 
The Byrd amendment, named after its principal supporter, Sen. Harry F. Byrd of Virginia. was enacted in 1971 over the objections of the Nixon administration. 
Among the arguments espoused by Byrd and others were U.S. need for Rhodesian chrome and that a cutoff would increase reliance on imports from the Soviet Union. 

"It is my firm belief." Vance said. "that repeal of the Byrd amendments will serve the inter­ests of the United States. It will in no way harm us strategically or economically. 
"Quite to the contrary. It will strengthen our position and add to our stature internationally.'' 
The subcommittee chairman. Sen. Dick Clark, D-lowa, said he expects the Senate to act on repeal bv the end of the month. He said an A.merican embargo would undercut Prime Minister Smith's political and psychological support. 
BOOKSTORE 
Tolkien 

BSR 810 QX REG. $289 OUR PRICE $109 KENWOOD KA-3500 BSR 710 QX REG. $249 OUR PRICE$99 
40WATTS PERCHANNEL 
CO~PLETE WITH BASE, DUST-COVER AND 


$140 UNBELIEVABLE!
CARTRIDGE 

"WHERE HEARING IS BELIEVING" 
321 S. ~"AIN DOWNTOWN 
NEXT TO INDIANA BELL 
288-1681 
OPEN 12:30-6 DAILY 

Friday, February 11, 1977 the observer _
_:______5 




Ryan details Student Union budget 
[continued from page 1) 
Morgan mentioned there had 

been times when she was close to 
being fired for some of her stands 
on the budget. 
Ricci felt that just the treasurer's 

office should be independent. "The 
treasurer's office keeps formal 
records. writes checks--it should be 
autonomous." he said. "But the 
comptroller's office was made to 
keep us in budget. If it was 
separate. we'd have to get another 
internal tool to advise our separate 
commissions. It should be kept a 
staff position to help advise me as 
well as my commissioners." 
Gassman also felt the Comptrol­

ler should be independent. "If you 
let the comptroller be part of 
Student Union. you allow the 
people in charge to do whatever 
they feel like because they don't 
have to listen to the comptroller. In 
this case. Student Union is going in 
debt." he said. 
Morgan said the issue of making 

the comptroller independent never 
had a chance to be discussed at the 
recent Student Union Board of 
Directors meeting. which Ricci 
chaired. "On the agenda. he (Ricci) 
always put the comptroller issue 
deep in the agenda so we never 
have a chance to talk about it." 
Gassman seconded Morgan's 

point and brought up one of his 
own regarding the recent Board of 
Director's meeting. "I had to call 
for a vote to get the budget issue 
moved up in the agenda. With a.ll 
the talk about the budget. he had 1t 
buried in the list. I wanted to talk 
about it. so I had a vote brought up. 
Otherwise. we wouldn't have men­
tioned the budget. I'm sure." 
Dissatisfaction over board meeting 
In a third page article published in the Feb. 10 Observer. Ricci said the board is a ·'revie\\ board and a link between the Student Union and Student Government." He also said that the current administration "is the first to effectively employ the concept.·· 
Ling disagreed with Ricci. ··1 think the board is not just a review board." the associate Student Un­ion Director said. "It is also there to help make policy and set future 
goals... · As for the "link between Student Government and Student Union." Ling "doesn't buy that." 
"Ricci doesn't want the extra control of the board on him. He believes the Union is his responsi­bilitv." he said. 
..i don't think this administration ia.~s been all that effective in using these meetings to their fullest advantage. We've been blocked on a number of preliminaries. Now. preliminaries have to be taken care of. but they're holding back work on more important things." he continued. 
Ling was also upset that Leo Granoski. Administrative Assistant to the board. was making com­ments for the board. "Leo is just ~upposcd to record the meeting's notes. He is not a member of the board and should not act as if he was. He still tries to get into a lot of del·isions." Ling said. 
Gassman was also upset that the 

board of directors is not used more 
ohL·n. "We should have been 
calling meetings since the be!!in­
ning but Ricci just hasn't been 
doing it. He is the one who· s 
~upposed to call the meetings and 
he \\on"t. The Con~titution calls for 
regular meetings and we\T had a gr;111d total of three. This reallv 
~,p..,cts me.·· the SBP stated. · 
Gassman said the board of 
directors should make policy for the 
union and the director should 
simpl~: look over the running of the 
l'OillllliSSIOnS. 
"The commissions arc not being run like they should have been and a lot of directors (of those commis­sions) have told me they're unhap­py. The union is too centralized in the oftice of the director and this is one reason things are not running smoothlv... Gassman explained. 
Budget causing problems 

Due to a discrepancy between 
two articles in yesterday's paper. 
there is some question regarding 
how much monev Student Union 
has left to spend. Ricci got his 
approximated figure of $15.000 by 
taking the $11,000 figure given at 
the board meeting and adding 
$4,000 which he figures will be 
made by some event(s) during this 
semester. 
Treasurer Rvan did a breakdown 
of expenses ·and a forecast of 
probable gains for the Obsener 
vesterdav and found Student Union 
has approximately $11.884.20 left 
this semester. This figure was 
arrh:·ed at in the following way: 
Out of a budget of $51.000. Student Union spent $25.623.57 first semester (compared to the $9.000 spent first semester last year). This left $25.376.43 for second semester. However. in Jan­uary $II .358.45 was spent on projects like the Nazz and $2,456.80 went into tixed costs (telephones. bookstore charges. postage. etc.). This leaves $11.561.18. Rvan then subtracted the budgets .of the Sophomore Literarv Festival ($7 .000) ·and the Colleg.iate Festival ($2.868.f9). 
This would leave $1.693.00. Rvan then added expected protits. s~1ch as the $3.000.00 expected from the Student Union films (like YOUNG FRANKENSTEIN). and the $5.000.00 (a tigure agreed upon by 
R~·an. Gassman and Morgan) gained from concerts. Rvan also added approximated gai.ns from Cinema $77. the receipts of the recent New Year's Eve Part\· and 
Cavanaugh blaze short-lived 
' 
by Barbara Breitenstein News Editor 

A minor fire in the basement of 
Cavanaugh shortly before midnight 
last night resulted when "someone 
apparently threw something lit 
down a laundry chute." according 
to Security officers. 
A Notre Dame fire department 
truck was dispatched to the scene. 
The fire. which was confined in the 
laundry bin in the basement. 
triggc~ed the automatic sprinkler 
svstem. 
. "There ~·as fire and smoke... a 
Security officer stated. "but it was 
well-doused by the sprinkler sys­
tem before the truck arrived. 
Officers took the btn outside and 
extinguished it completely.·· 
The fire was discovered by food 
sales personnel who were unable to 
put out the tire through a transom. 
Thev notified assistant rector Fr. 
Reigle. who sent for two resident 
assistants. The tire was then 
reported bv second-floor RA Greg 
Garcia. 
this friday and every friday 5:15 mass & supper 

the Quickie receiph. He then wa-. one of the reason'> he wa~ subtracted money used b~· Campus named to be Student Union Direc­Press to bu~· a new keyboard and tor as a junior. a position normal!~· came out with a figure of reserved for seniors. ··Haskin and $11.8H4.20. Sells worked on this and the U.S. 
Rvan did not think the first government also uses it. I think it seniestcr was a very good one was one of the stronger parts of my financially. ''Considering they application.·· didn't have a Sophomore Literary Gassman says Ricci was elected Festival. which has a big budget. to his post because "Byrne (last they did spend a lot of money. I year's SBP) and his guys wanted a wish they had spent less because thev don't have much to work with." he said. 
He thought a lot of etlort was put into the Union's schedule of events this past fall. but that "too many events were not attended by· enough people." He attributed this to bad advertising. bad timing or people "just not wanting to go to the event." 
Both Ryan and Morgan said the tinancial outlook for second semes­ter is going to be "very tight." "We would not close down activi­ties if we had one more loser." said Ryan. "but we would have to stay away from armory parties and dances.·· 
The Academic Commission bud­get had to be divided by several of the other commissions to make sure thev could meet their own budgets.. Ryan noted the Academic and Special Projects Commission were doing particularly well. 
Ricci also elaborated on his statement that "the Student Union is now reorganized so that it can never be in financial trouble again... He said that by u,;ing an unincumbered balance. a svstem which takes into account future expenses (such as contracts) and gains. the Union can accurately predict how much money is left in their budget. "If \\T reach zero in our unincumbered balance. I can meet with mv commissioners and shore things ~1p." he said. 
guv who would run a tight ship and thcv thought he would do it." 
"Instead he·., talking about def­icit spending. That's wrong. No­body should overspend their budget because that will take away from next vear's activities. which is unfair. I. don't believe Student Union can tighten their act up now unless they have an axe over their head." Gassman said. 
8TH FANTASTIC WEEK! BETTER HURRY NEXT TO NORTH VILLAGE MALL BEFORE IT IS TOO LATE! IT'S TBE MOST HILARIOUS SUSPENSE BIDE OF YOUB LD'E! SILVER STRERI-1 '•'·""'"' GENE WILDER-No Passes or Discount Tickets JILL CLA YBURGH -RICHARD PRYOR­Weekdays 7:00.9:30 Sat. & Sun. at 2:00-4:30-7:00.9:40  
NOW•••The BIG ONE youI (I) \iiA)II­have been waiting to see! Starts Friday Frida\ BONNIE 7:30:9:30 Sat. -Sun AND~ 1:45-3:35 5:25-7:30 m&-9:40 "FUN wrrH DICK&JANE" STARRING GEORGE SEGAL-JANE FONDA ED MCMAHON  
M!DNITE SHOW FRI-SAT _A vicious, EWOTT GOULD bnllant comedy ~n~ .. -· L!!.J ~ COLOR  


Navy Engineering Programs placement office Scheduled interviews Feb. 14, 15. 16. 
More than_just a job -­

It's an ADVEN'TURE!! 
.. 


----------------· 
DOONESBURY by Garry Trudeau 
EDITORIAL BOARD

"*The Observer 
Thomas O'Neil Editor-in-Chief
anindependentstudentnewspaper 
Dan Sanchez Managing Editor
serving notre dame and st. mary's 
Chris Smith Asst. Managing Ed. 
The Observer is published by students of the University of Gregg Bangs Executive Editor Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. It does not necessarily Val Zurblis Executive Editor reflect the policies of either institution. The news is reported Pat Hanifin Editorial Editor as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials Tim O'Reiley Features -Editor 
represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Bob Mader Exec. News Editor Commentaries, opinions and letters are the views of their Maureen Flynn Campus Editor authors. Column space is available to all members of the Marti Hogan St. Mary's Editor community, and letters are encouraged to promote the free Kathy Mills News Editor expression of varying opinions on campus. Barb Breitenstein News Editor 
Don Reimer Copy Editor
Box Q

Business Manager Tom Fronczak Martha L. Fanning Prqduction Editor 
Notre Dame

Advertising Manager Mike Miller Tom Byrne Contributing Editor Photo Editor Tony Chifari Ind. 46556 
Friday, February 11, 1_977 




Clarify Student Body Congress 
SBP Mike Gassman's Student Body Congress has come under considerable criticism in recent days, although even the critics agree that the basic idea is a good one. The main problem of the Congress concerns a lack of communication--which is ironic since it was created to improve communication. 
Before his election, Gassman noted that the poobahs in Student Government, Student Union and the Hall President's Council often did not know what the others were doing. The Congress was intended to correct this confusion, and to allow these groups to co~rdinate efforts on common problems. Ariother aim was to involve the hall presidents more in the processes of student government. 
Despite its deceptive name, the Con­gress was definitely not intended to be a legislative body. It is too large to be effective, as proved by the unfortunate experiment with a Student Senate (abol­ished in 1973 ). (The Senate once spent seven hours in a debate, which ended only when so many people deserted the meeting that it lost its quorum.) Further, the Congress is made up of people who have too many other responsibilities to spend much time on it. 
Yet the criticism by Dillon President Tom O'Neill and others seems based on the idea that it is supposed to be a legislature. This communications break­down is complicated by others. Gassman, in effect, complains that no one answered 
P.O.BoxQ 
Dear Editor: tion policies. Faculty members will necessary, modify the present receive a similar. questionnaire, examination policy. Within the next couple of days, and the committee will use com-The student questionnaire was 
many students will be receiving a puter-correlated results of this formulated to take into account not 
questionnaire formulated by a Fa­survey to compile a report which only student attitudes on examina­
culty Senate Committee to deter­will be available to the Academic tion policies, but also some of the 
mine student attitudes on exam ina-Council to help them review, and if possible reasons for these attitudes 
---------------------:::-------.,-such as study habits or harsh limitation of pianned evening ac­tivities due to examination policy. It is important that these surveys be completed accurately and re­turned to the proper coordinator as soon as possible, so that valid results can be correlated. Because examinations are impor­tant to students not just as a means of determining grades, but also as an integral part of the learning experience of a course, an exam­ination policy should reflect, as much as possible, the academic needs and desires of students. Please take this opportunity to make your views known. 
Nancy Cox 

when he spoke; the critics complain that he spoke so much they could not answer. Gassman agrees that the meeting was not designed for lengthy discussion, arguing that long meetings would be boring, useless and would drive people away. Some hall presidents complain that they had to sit through explanations of things they already knew. 
The Congress is too useful an idea to drop, but it needs some improvements. Most importantly, the SBP should make its purpose clear to all participants: it is for communication and coordination, not for legislation. The current debate should help clarify this. 
secondly, if Gassman and the Co.ngress members really want more two-way com­munication, they must spend more time in the meetings. To reduce boredom, the SBP and his cabinet might hold smaller meetings with the less informed groups; he could meet with only those people interested in particular subjects. Thus people would not be bored by long explanations they have heard before or do not concern them. 
Full-scale Congress meetings could be held once or twice a semester. Special sessions could be called to organize the student body response on major issues, such as the calendar fight of years past. 
Finally, though formal meetings are useful, they cannot substitute for friendly daily contacts between student leaders. 
opinion~~~~~~~~~
Response to 
Revitalism 


on Campus 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii david vins on 
In response to Fr. Toohey's 
Feature  article,  Revivalism  on  
Campus,  which  was  printed  in  
Monday's  Observer,  I'd  like  to  

make a few remarks. 
First, you must realize that I would surely be labeled as a "revivalist". I freely admit that It would fall within that group Fr. Toohey described as "proselytizers who were extremely conservative and even reactionary." I gladly embrace the tag "fundamental­ist." But that doesn't mean I am 
some green-skinned, four-headed mental midget who "roams the campus" looking for soft-willed persons I can'force into my peculiar brand of religion. It doesn't mean that I'm unstable or off on some wierd spiritualistic tangent. 
What it does mean is that I am in the very center of Christianity; it means I believe the Bible--basical­ly the same Bible that the Catholic Church professes to believe. 1 am on of those "who employ the Bible with an uncritical literal interpre­
tation", and I accept it as God's infallible, inerrant revelation of Himself to mankind. 
Now I know this is old-fashioned and outmoded and certainly not in line with the current view of the Bible, but I maintain that God's Word is the ultimate answer to all of life's questions and problems. If that is "pre-Vatican 11 spiritual­ity", then so be it. The Written word and the Living Word do not and will not change with time, or tradition, or the accepted thought of a group of men. 
I am occasionally cr·iticized for holding such an un-modern, "anti­intellectual",belief, but I have two reasons for accepting the Bible's inerrancy and interpreting it liter­ally. One reason is that, since accepting it by faith, its truth has been verified time and again in the experience of my life. The other is that it satisfies me intellectually. Sure, I chose to believe it, but the Bible is never, to my satisfaction. 
been proven wrong on any count: scientifically, historically. or spirit­ually.
The Bible says very clearly that man is sinful and hence separated from G<UI. Humanism, so prevalent on our campus today. is dia­metrically opposed to that positiun and many choose not to accept that view of man. Big deal! I choose to 
believe the Bible. Honest and careful evaluation points to the bask sinfulness of man . 

Now, let me make a distinc­tion. I don't just accept these things as fact. I beUeve them. I believe enough to act of those beliefs. 
So I would, therefore, surely qualify as a full-fledged "revival­ist". But the point I want to make is that I have never been brainwashed or forced into anything. I am what I am and believe what I believe because that is what I chose to be and believe. 
I was never put through a "mort­ification process" or subjected to a series of "abasements, degrada­tions, humiliations, and profana­tions of self'' as described by Fr. Toohey. And, as far as I know, the coup!(! of groups that I am assoc­iated with on campus don't use any of these "techniques", nor anythi ng even remotely like them. They present what they believe, firmly and persuasively (because they believe so strongly) but they don't try to cram it down people's
throats. Of what good would a forced religious commitment be, anyway? None. We believe that a person's relationship with Christ is a person­al matter and any decision is left in. its only rightful place--under the control of the individual. There are undoubtedly some groups, like the followers of this "Rev." Moon, who will brainwash and exploit their "converts", but these aren't Bible-based groups. I stand just as ready and eager to denounce such actions as Fr. Toohey. Such practices are amoral ­atrocities totally out of keeping with the precepts of Christianity. . Brainwashing is wrong. M~ poh' IS .that to acc':'se all fu.~ua~en­!ah~!s, ev~ngehsts, and ~evlval­_ 1st~ of htgh-pressure taches a~d to lm.ply ~ umve~sal use of bral~­w~shmg ~s als~ l_nco~ect ~nd,. m thl~ case, an tnjusttce. It s h~e say1~g t~at everyone from Texas 1s an oil-rich cowboy. 
1defend "revivalism" because 1 believe 1in it. 1'believe true revi­
valism centers around Christ. I believe Christ Is the answer and I know that this belief gives my life purpose and peace, the equat of which I have found no where else. If anyone should be interested in this believ. I'd be more than glad to talk with you. and present. without 
pressure. I he reality of Christ in my
'life. 

~ ,. .. "' II._?. • .~~," .. ~ , ~. ~ ·• . . ..... •'l. '. , •• "'..;' 
---------~-----~-~------------~-----------­
.. 
Friday, February 11, 1977 

the observer 
7 

Letters to a Lonely God 
by REV. ROBERT GRIFFIN 
Earthquakes With No Survivors 
There is an idiom, used in Hemingway's For Whom the BeD ToUs, describing the sexual act, passionately consummated, as an event that makes lovers feel as though they had just survived an earthquake. "The earth· moved," says one of Heming­way's women; or, in disappointment, "I could not feel the earth move.' 'It leaves one to suppose that a man mu~t feel pretty shabbily equipped to be a lover if, in his passion, he fails to ntake the hills quake like jello beneath the frame of his passion's partner. 
"When I was young," Pilar said, 
"the earth moved so that you coutd 
feel it all shift in space and were 


DARBY O'GILL 

afraid it would go out from under 
you. It happened every night...Did 
it really move?" 

"Yes," the girl said. "Truly." 
"For you, Ingles? Pilar looked at 
Robert Jordan. "Don't lie." 
"Yes," he said. "Truly." 

It is a question, as far as I know, that professionals never ask, outside of Hem­ingway. The marriage counsellor never says to the feuding couple: "Did the earth move?" He simply assumes that it does move or it doesn't move; but he doesn't want to discuss problems in those terms. He may talk about the sexual relationship, but he would feel like Woody Allen posing as a shrink if he inquired about it in images of earthquake. He would fear setting up expectations in a marriage that could never be fulfilled if he taught couples to take Richter readings on their intimacy as though they were living over the San Andreas fault. He might feel that an earthquake is really needed, if the mar­riage is to be saved, but he would never be tasteless enough to ask if it happens. 
"One could have fallen off," says the girl, Maria, speaking of the earth tremors she experienced with Robert Jordan. "Lucky Maria," one thinks. "Way to go, Robert Jordan!" But are they speaking truth, or poetry, as when a man praises a woman's beauty? Thy hair, says Robert Jordan, "will hang straight to thy should­ers and curl at the ends as a wave of the sea curls, and it will be the color of ripe wheat and thy face the color of burnt gold and thine eyes the only color they could be with thy skin, gold with dark flecks in them ...'' 
"At lovers' perjuries/ They say Jove laughs," according to Shakespeare. Only lovers know whether they perjure or not , when they praise women like Maria. With or without perjuries, St. Vaientine's Day on Monday celebrates a feast for lovers. St. Valentine's love seems too gentle and innocent and polite to be passionate enough for earthquakes. Yet, you feel that the best lovers have endured earthquakes , though perhaps not of the flesh (who can say, or who should want tv say?), and have 
Magnificent Meals in Michiana 
by TIM O'REILEY 





The Morris Inn 
At any time of the year, a steady steam of high school athletes, official guests of the University, alumni, parents or rich, potential contributors can be seen trotting through the lobby of The Morris Inn. Our hotel "on the campus", with rooms only slightly less ugly,than its exterior, serves as Notre Dame's very own welcoming house. Inherent with such a lofty responsi­bility would be the preparation of the very best cuisine that could be found on campus (which isn't saying very much), in the most impressive atmosphere possible. If all goes well, the hotel patrons return home with joy j.n their hearts and less money in their wallets. 
With rolled white napkins and the survived the lightning. A pair of my favorite lovers--a couple that give marriage a good name, and respectability as a sacrament--are Senior Citizens named C.B. and Mary, living in New York City. Mary is eighty-six, and C.B. is seventy-nine. When they hold hands in public, love seems to have the strength of oak trees that have survived a thousand winters. 
Mary, these days has retreated into a vagueness of mind that makes her forget­ful, and C.B. has to be heedful enough for both ofthem. Each day he dresses her, and takes her to church. On most afternoons, you can see them shopping, with C.B. buying her new dresses sometimes, or taking walks in the park. He turns her in every direction she moves in; without him, she would simply be a confused old lady living in a home. At his side, she is a proud intelligent woman, gifted and witty as she was as a young newspaper editor from the South. That is the way C.B. makes you see her, being more in love with her now than he was in the years that have faded, thereby keeping his experience of her whole and integral so that all of it is forever, with no shadings of today and yesterday. So they move along together, her as chipper as the Bonne Blue Flag, and 
C.B. as patient as God. There is a passion in them that has survived passion; a passion keeping them together as the reason for the other's existence; trusting and being trusted; with one as necessary to the other as the earth is to the tree, so that if there were no tree, earth would have no reason for wanting to exist alone. 
Robert Jordan and Maria; C.B. and Mary ... young lovers who felt the earth move; old lovers waiting for the heavens to move. Sweethearts more enduring than the perjuries on Valentines. 
They were together so that as the hand on the watch moved, unseen now, they knew that nothing could ever happen to the one that did not happen to the other. One and one ' is one ...is one descendingly, is one softly, is one longingly, is one kindly, is one happily, is one in 
loaded with goodies such as cottage cheese, stuffed olives, and a passable cheese spread for the cracker basket. The preliminaries continue with a choice offruit cup, juice, soup of Vichyssoise. Of this array, the latter comes most recommend­ed, since the first two certainly come out of a can, and the soup, though advertised as ''homemade Italian vegetable,''.might well have once made its home in a can, too. Unique to South Bend, however, the Vichyssoise is a smooth, cold potato soup that will stir some "vive Ia France" sentiments. 
Apart from the large salads, the dinner versions come across as rather nondescript and unimaginative. While the Waldorf, a small dish of chopped apples and nuts, tries to be a bit lively, the plain-old tossed salad is a lost cause. Dan Devine's offense often musters more life than this leafy pair. 
Sad to say, the mundane quality of the food does not stop here. The most noteworthy part of the menu is the map of the campus on it; otherwise, it lists standard meat, fish and poultry platters, 

FR. GRIFFIN 
goodness, is one to cherish, is one 
now on earth with elbows against the cut and slept-on branches of the pine tree with the smell of the pine bough and the night; to earth conclusively now, and want the morning of the day to come ..Then he said, "Oh, Maria, I love thee and I thank thee for this." 
"Oh, Maria, I love thee and I thank thee for this." I hope for all of you that there is someone on St. Valentine's Day--either now or in the future--to whom you can speak words like these. I hope, having found such a one, you will move heaven and earth to keep that one, as C.B. and Mary have kept each other into old age, so that your love, too, may seem to have the strength of oak trees that have survived a thousand winters. 
A wish like that is the only Valentine's Day card that Darby and I have to give to you. 
ranging in price from $6.00-$8.00. I chose the breaded veal cutlet ($6.00) which, though adequate, would hardly rank as unforgettable, and was served at a cooler temperature .than desirable. The french fries that I ordered with the main dish were of the frozen, mediocre variety, and also presented .at a lower than optimum temperature. Other entrees ordered there, from steak to scallops, evoke similar yawns. The alternately dry or rubbery bread and rolls, supported the main course as well as a foundation infested with termites. Two pots of hot water which come with dinner, though, must be counted as a plus, meager as it is. 
All considered, The Morris Inn does not offer bad food, nor quote oppressive prices. The atmosphere is not rushed, while the service is attentive and friendly. Notre Dame's showcase to its YIP's, however, should stand as something more than just. another restaurant. When it should be thrusting its best epicurean foot forward, the Morris Inn unfortunately trips. 

largest silverware set on any table in South Bend, the restaurant puts on the appear­ance of something suitable for ND' s special guests. The partly-paneled, partly­wallpapered (distorted historical views of campus) dining room, featuring huge picture windows that face the golf course, plus muzak frequently interrupted by the electronic doors to the kitchen, are designed to provide an atmosphere con­ducive to the discussion of sports, Notre 
Dame,  or  anything  else  that  comes  to  
mind.  Hopefully this  momentum  will  be  
kept up by the epicurean exertions.  

Here, unfortunately, the slippage be­gins. The meal begins with a reli!.h tray (included in all dinners), a nice touch 
,.•••-...•.-.r...v.-.-•.•..,•.•..,.,....•.•·.v.·.:-.-.·_.....r?.•••.,.•••-.-.v.·.·.r.-,..·.w.·.···J'.....-•..-•••·.-.·.············v....,.._._.tiV'.,._._,.._...........,_.,,.v.,.·.·····".,.•V_..,.,.••,..•.,..,,.._, 
• • • 0 0 
• 0 0
• • e

Entertainment 
0 0 • 
6 • • 0 . 0
This Week . • 
0 

0 

by DAVID O'KEEFE 
-'
'tl'.-.·.·.·.·.-.·.·.r.·.-.-,........,.............._.,_._._....,••._.•.,............_._._......_.•._._._..w 
On Campus 
Movie: SMC Social Commission presents Cowboy Clint Eastwood in High Plains Drifter tonight at Carroll Hall at 7:30 and 
9:30 for but a dollar. Nazz: Friday night·recording artist .Bob Hardy from 9-12. Saturday night-the Max Dunster Quartet. Monday-St. Valentine's Day Disco. In the basement of LaFortune. 
On The Air 
WSND Albam Hour: Weekn1ghts from ll·12 on 640 am Monday: Frank Zappa /Zoot ADares Tuesday: Starcastle I Fountains of Ugbt Wednesday: New Riders of the Purple Sage/ Who Are Those Guys Thursday: Jimmy Buffet/Changes in lati­tudes-Changes In Attitudes 

On The Screen 
Forum 1: Fun With Dick and Jane Forum 2: The SUver Streak Boiler House 1: Jaws Boiler House 2: Harry and Tonto Town and Country 1: The Enforcer Town and Country 2: The Sentinel Scottsdale: Network**** State: In Search of Noah's Ark River Park: A Star Is Born 

Times are notori,ously ephemeral. Call theaters ahead of time to avoid much wailing and gnashing of teeth. 

On The Tube 
FRIDAY 

Midnight Special: Richard Pryor hosts Boz Scaggs, the Niew Riders of the Purple Sage, Olivia Newton-John and ,·others. (1:00 am/16) 
SATURDAY 
College Basketball: The Irish try to make it seven straight by beating the South Carolina Gamecocks, who are led by the indomitable G.G. Williams. (2:30/16) GoH: The fourth round of the Bob Hope Desert Classic, live from La Quinta, California. (4:30 pm/16) The final round will be aired Sunday at 4:00. Planet of the Apes: Charlton Heston lands in the middle of an advanced simian civilization in Pierre Boulle's strangely successful science-fiction film. (11 :00 pm/ 16) 
SUNDAY 
NBA All-Star Game: Dave Cowens. John Havlicek and Pete Maravich lead the East against Bob Lanier, Bill Walton, Kareem Abdul Jabbar, and the rest of the best of the West. (1:45/22) College Basketball: The Hoosiers and the Michigan Wolverines recreate last year's NCAA final. Dick Enberg and Billy packer report all the action in this clutch Big to clash from Bloomington, Indiana. (I :30 pm/16) 2001: A Space Odyssey: The film that Stanley Kubrick made in 1968 still stands as the best, most significant. most any­thing you wnat to call it, science fiction film. (8:00pm/ 16) Oscar's Best Movies: ABC counters one of the hest films with a collection of clips from the 48 Best Pictures in the history of the Oscar. From Wings to One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest, this program should pro· vide a veritable smorgasbord of entertain­ment for film buffs and casual moviegoers alike. (9:00pmz128) 
MONDAY 

Be My Valentine, Charlie Brown: Valen­tine's Day rolls around but the poor round­headed kid finds nothing in his mailbox. I I new how he feels. (8:00 pm/22) 1'be Sunshine Boys: The occasional lags in Neil Simon's screenplay are practically invisible when handled deftly and hilar­iously by two great troopers. w.1;:er Matthau and George Bums. It's the story of two old vaudevillians who hate each other despite the fact that their comedy act ran for 43 very successful years, an act that they are asked to revive just once for a TV special. (9:00 pro/16) Shaft: Richard Roundtree plays private eye J<'hn Shaft, who is hired by a Harlem drug king to find his kidnapped daughter. Excellent score by Isaac Hayes. (12:4(} am/22) 
WEDNESDAY 

A Man Called Hone: Richard Harris plays :m Englishman who is captured. tortured and enslaved by Indians. only to impress them with his courage and become one of them. (q:oo pm/22) 
... 

Ducks celebrate the return of warm weather with a late afternoon plunge. (Photo by joe Burns.) 
Church challenges 


S. African apartheid 
PRETORIA, South Africa (AP) -for children, black or white, now The Roman Catholic Church, in a growing up in the republic, and stiff new challenge to the govern­prevent the horrors of civil war in ment of white-ruled South Africa the future." yesterday denounced the nation's 
The statement was issued after a"social _ and political system of week-long meeting of the Southernoppression." 

African Catholic Bishops' Confer­A statement by the Catholic ence attended by prelates from bishops of southern Africa called South Africa, Swaziland and Bots­for sweeping change to avert more 

wana. 

bloodshed. It urged a sharing of power 
It came at a time when the between South Africa's 4.5 million 
Church was already defying the whites and its 18 million voteless government by opening formerly blacks, condemned alleged police 
all-white parochial schools to all brutality against blacks and vowed 
races in violation of the nation's to promote black leadership within 
race laws. the Church. 
It also follows an earlier declara­

The statement was issued as tion of defense of the right of students returned to school in the conscientious objection against mil­black township of Soweto, near itary service in South Africa. Johannesburg, after a day of book 
Most people in South Africa,burning and protest against the meaning blacks, "look at service ingovernment's separate education the armed forces as unjust oppres­policy for blacks. 

sion of the majority," said Arch­

The bishops demanded an inves­bishop Denis Hurley at a news tigation of what they described as conference Wednesday at which he the "seemingly systematic beat­explained the Church's position on ings and unjustifiable shootings of conscientious objectors.
blacks during disturbances and of cold blooded tortue of detained 
School classes in Soweto started persons." yesterday morning with many stu­dents staying home, apparently in
In one of the most radical fear of an 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. curfew statements ever published by the barring school-age youngsters from Church in South Africa. long a the streets of the black township.
champion of black rights, it declar­When police kept out of sight,ed: however, the students were appar­
"No temporary suppression by ently encouraged to leave home for 
violence, only a sharing of citizen­classes and by mid-morning atten­
ship, can give hope of any safety dance rose to normal. 
Indiana legalizes bingo; expands child abuse law 
INDIANAPOLIS (AP) -Legalized Health and Environmental Affairs bingo and a revision of the child Committee. It expands the state abuse law were among a flurry of law on reporting child abuse to bills approved yesterday by House include neglect, sexual and institu­committees. tional abuse, as well as physicalThe bingo bill, sponsored by abuse. Rep. Chester F. Dobis, D-Merrill­It requires doctors and police­ville, legalizes the game if it's men to take color photographs and conducted by religious, charitable, x-rays when child abuse is suspect­fraternal, educational, civic. politi­ed. The bill extends immunity to cal. or patriotic groups. persons who, in good faith, report
The bill stipulates that the total suspected instances of child abuse. prize in any one day can't be more It calls for the establishment of a than $2,500 with a $500 limit on any child protection service in local 
one game. welfare departments, with an 11­The measure was approved 8-1 member advisory team of social by the House Public Policy Com­service representatives. The bill 
mittee. 

provides a penalty of $100 fine. 30 Rep. Dennis Avery's child abuse day!; in jail or both for failing to bill was approved 8-1 by the Public rcp<,rt child abuse. 


Pangborn Hall aids charities 
over 1400 people had camped unable to pay her heating bill. Theby Steven Gray outside the school. gas company proceeded to turn offOver the past year and a half the Banas related the story to the her gas supply until the bill wasstudents and faculty of Pangborn residents of Pangborn. In the paid. Money from Pangborn wasHall have collected and distributed ensuing months, students with a used to restore heat to their home.
large sums of money to charitable $400 donation that was sent direct­Pangborn also has donated m'on­programs in Bangladesh and the ly toBangladesh in order to help ey to the CCD Program < • St.
downtown South Bend area. 
alleviate the problems at the Notre Patrick's and sponsors a gym-nightWorking through no particular Dame College. once a week for the youth at thatvolunteer agency on campus, the This year the students have parish.
students began sending donations continued to raise money for var­Banas commented that the stu­last year to Bangladesh and have ious area programs. Coordinated dents' generosity has been spon­continued to raise funds for fam­by students Tom Barth and Don taneous, stemming from an aware­ilies in South Bend during the Swanbeck, seniors, in conjunction ness of the poverty of other people present energy shortage. 
with the hall government, $150 has far removed from Notre Dame. 
Early last spring, Assistant Rec­been sent to the Holy Cross Justice He also stated that other rectors tor Fr. Leonard Banas learned of a 
and Peace Center and $350 to St. on campus are hesitant to initiate serious food problem at Notre Patrick's Parish, both located in similar programs in their halls, due 
Dame College in Bangladesh from downtown South Bend. to the financial pressures that his brother, Fr. James Banas, a 
The money sent to these organ­confront many students. Banas member of the faculty there. izations has been used primarily to continued saying that such a pro­
During last year's famine, destitute help families in financial need, blem wasn't that apparent in families went to the college begg­
such as the mother of one family Pangborn; rather, the students ing for food. In a very short time 
who, recently home from the contributed because they saw a hospital with a new born baby, was serious need for financial support. 
Carter advocates family stability 
WASHINGTON (AP) -President Carter added a new twist yesterday to his exhortation that government employees make time for their families, recreation and exercise. 
Speaking to workers at the Department of Housing and Urban Development the President said: 
"We need a stable family life to make us better servants of the people ... So those of you who are living in sin -I hope you'll get married. Those of you who've left spouses, go back home and those of you who don't remember your children's names, get acquainted." 
His remarks drew laughter. 



Monday Feb.-14 
A. Assorted Chocolates 
B. Fancy Heart C,D. Red Foil Hearts 

HAI\tiMES NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
,____ -·-·--··-------------------------------------------------. . . -•. ---------• ----·-------------.I ..... ··-.. -.. -. .. --,---------------------------------­
Friday, February 11, 1977 the observer 


Continuation of natural gas shortage predicted 
WASHINGTON AP -The na­tion's natural gas shortage may continue until October and could become even worse in winters to come. a key federal energy official said yesterday. 
"We're not going to get out of today's crisis possibly until next October." because of the need to refill depleted storage supplies of natural gas in preparation for next 
winter. said John F. O'Leary.  new  
head of the  Federal  Energy  Ad­ 
ministration.  

"And indeed." O'Leary told the Consumer Federation of America, "next winter. and the next winter, and the next winter it's going to be worse. 
At the same time. government reports indicated the current mild weather had sent back to the job thousands of workers laid off due to natural gas shortages but that many more were still out of work. 
Meanwhile, President Carter announced that Vice President Walter Mondale and former Presi­dent Gerald R. Ford will head a new energy conservation group to minimize the waste of fuel resources in the United States. 
And Carter's chief energy ad­viser. James R. Schlesinger. said energy conservation will be the cornerstone of the administration's comprehensive policy to be un­veiled by April 20. He hinted that much of the conservation may be imposed by the government and may involve some kind of price regulation as well. 
·'The free market is not neces­sarily the ideal mechanism to make large adjustments over a short period of time." Schlesinger told the consumer federation. He added it may be necessary to take "mandated" measures which might involve price levels and employment in addition to conser­tion. 
He declined to comment further. 
In another development. gov­ernment reports indicated the cur­rent mild weather has temporarily. eased the natural gas shortage and allowed an estimated 330,000 work­ers to go back to their jobs. 
The Commerce Department, which had reported some 1.2 million people out of work a week ago. because of the gas shortage, reduced the number yesterday to 
870.000. The department said improved employment in New York 
Politics invade Olympics 
LONDON AP -The octopus of politics winds its tentacles more and more menacingly around the Olympic Games. 
The International Olympic Com­mittee, which used to pride itself on being above politics and indepen­dent of government interference, will clearly have to take a strong line in the next few years to keep politicians' fingers out of its affairs. 
The stormy events at Montreal last summer -Taiwanese athletes shut out by the Canadian govern­ment, and the walkout by African countries in protest against New Zealand's ties with South Africa ­only were a start. Now politicians are trying to get their hands on the running of the Games themselves. 
President Urho Kekkonen of Finland, in an interview with the London Times, said United Nations Educational. Scientific and Cultural Organization should take over the administration of the Olympics. 
Dennis Howell, the British Gov­ernment's Minister of Sport. de­clared publicly that the IOC "is totally ill-equipped to cope with the growing size, cost and political involvement in the Olympic Games." 
Speaking as chairman of the working group of European mini­sters responsible for sport. Howell said the IOC should work more dosely with the host government and organizations like the Council of Europe. He claimed the issues at Montreal last year-Taiwan and the Africans -"could have been solved far more quickly with our involvement." 
Representatives of the IOC, which is due to meet next in Prague in June, will certainly disagree. 
The self-electing, self-perpetu­ating body, groomed by its scrappy late President Avery Brundage to defend the ideals of amateur sport as a symbol of world friendship, will fight tooth and nail to keep 
politicians' hands out of the sta­
diums and Olympic council cham­
bers. 
Lord Killanin. Brundage's suc­
cessor, dealt with the matter in his 
usual quiet and diplomatic way. 
"The IOC. together with the 
international sports federations 
and the national Olympic com­
mittees are looking very closely at 
the whole position of costs and the 
politicization of the Games," he 
said in an interview. 
"But one of the reasons for the 
rise in the cost of the games is the 
desire of governments -federal, 
provincial and city -to do things 
bigger and better. 
Soprano Olophint to perform 
Bernadine Olophint. operatic so­prano. will perform tonight at 8 
p.m. in Washington Hall as part of the Black Cultural Arts Festival. 
Oliphint has toured Europe and sung as guest soloist with the Houston. Dallas. Atlanta and Nash­ville symphonies. She also received a Fulbright Fellowship to study voice and opera in Stuttgart and Munich, Germany. and was later awarded a Martha Baird Rockefel­ler Music Fund, Inc.. grant to establish her career in Europe. 
CAMPUS WEST 


MINISTRY . 11 
offices ground floor of Badin now student operated from 
7:30 pm to midnight Sunday through Friday 
Avaiiable for: 
Small group meetings social space an 
CiJ!npl$
mtnstry

study conversation 
New Jersey. and Ohio accounted for much of the reduction. 
The unemployment figures are admittedly inexact, coming from a variety of sources which differ in both their methods and in their timing. 
For the first time in weeks. the weather forecast, through Feb. 13, predicts temperatures above nor­mal for this time of year throughout the entire nation. 
The best news. perhaps, was for the Northern Plains and Great Lakes areas, where temperatures of 10 degrees and nine degrees above normal. on the average. were forecast. 
New England and the mid-Atlan­tic area temperatures were expect­ed to be five and six degrees above normal and the midcontinent area, typified by Kansas City and Tulsa, was also due for a six-degree bonus. 
O'Leary told the consumer group he saw no apparent threat of gasoline shortages this summer even though greater emphasis was being placed now on production of fuel oils. 
He said gasoline stocks are in good shape and refineries are working at high volumes to produce both fuel oil and gasoline. 
O'Leary also said nuclear energy will eventually have to be used substantially, even though the Carter administration sees it as a last resort. 

He said the recognized hazards of nuclear energy don't look so bad when compared with the hazards to coal-miners and the public from the mining and burning of coal. 
O'Leary also said the great imbalance of funding between nu­clear power research and other experimental energy forms is being re-examined and indicated the emphasis will probably shift some­what away from the heavy spend­ing on such projects as the nuclear breeder reactor. 
"I would be surprised if that relationship holds through the next budget cycle,·· O'Leary said. 
Glenmary Missioners Room 35-321 Box 46404 Cincinnati, Ohio 45246 Name_______________ 
Address___________ 
city_________________ Zip_________________ State________________ 
Age 




Learn to land a jet here and you can land one anywhere. 

Bringing in a supersonic jet on a 10.000 ft. cement runway is tough enough. But landing one on a 500ft. piece of a carrier deck, moving at 25 knots. is even tougher. Only a few men are good enough to do it. And they're all Navy trained. How can you become a member of the Naval Air team? One way is to join while you're still in colleg · One of the advantages of being part of the Aviation Reserve Officer Candidate (AVROC\ Program is that it lets you continue working toward your degree. 
Getting your Navy Wings isn't easy. The training is tough Tl1e least that will be expected of you is the best that other pilots can do Their limits are your starting blocks. their expertise your primer. But if you succeed. your future is assured whether you remain in the Navy or not. 
For more information. talk to your !ocal Navy Recruiter 
Naval Aviation Programs for Sophomores, Juniors and Seniors at Placement Office February 14, 15, 16 More than just a job. It's an adventure. 

1_0__t._b ~-0_Q_?~f y-=e=-r_____Fr'-id_a_.:.y.:....,_F_eb_ruary 11, 1977 


IRA gunmen receive life sentence 
LONDON AP -Four Irish Republi­can Army gunmen were sentenced yesterday to life imprisonment for seven killings and a dozen bomb­ings during an 18-month IRA offensive in English cities. 
Authorities said they were brac­ing for a possible upsurge of IRA violence in reprisal for the stiff sentences. 
The judge in the case, Sir Joseph Cantley, who had been told he was on the extremists' death list, refrained from commenting on the threat of an IRA campaign as he imposed the sentences in Central Criminal Court, known to London­ers as the Old Bailey. He recom­mended that each of the four men serve no less than 30 years in 
prison before being paroled. 

Afterward, Cantley declared: "I have been dealing with criminals who called themselves soldiers and shot unarmed men, murdered un­protected and unsuspecting wo­men, sneaking up and throwing a bomb through a restaurant window before running away." 
Outside the court, units of spe­ially armed Scotland Yard officers were posted at public buildings in the heart of the British capital while extra precautions were being taken to protect prominent people considered likely targets for IRA reprisals. 
London's police chief, Sir Robert Mark, warned the public: "Don't relax -be doubly cautious." 
During the 13-day trial of the four IRA men, 12 bombs exploded in central London Jan. 29, causing extensive damage to stores but no injuries. Six days later, police in Liverpool discovered a large cache of incendiary bombs, explosives and ammunition believed to have been amassed by the IRA. 

"We expect the IRA to hit back 
, at any moment," one Scotland Yard officer ·commented after the sentences were imposed. "The terrorists have already publicly stated they plan a bombing cam­paign far worse than anything they have done before." 
The four men sentenced were Martin Joseph O'Connel, 25; Ed­ward Butler, 25; Harry Duggan, 24; and Hugh Doherty, 26, all self-ad­mitted members of the Provisional wing of the predominantly Roman Catholic IRA. 
The Provisionals have been fighting to end British rule and Protestant domination in Northern Ireland and to unite the province with the Irish Republic, which is 
SUNDAY 12 noon -11 pm 
•

Chapin performs to fight hunger • •• ~COLD BEER, PACKAGE LIQUOR,: 
RED BANK, N.J. AP-After a long day of recording his latest album at a New York studio, Harry Chapin hopped into a car and was off for a long evening of performing at two benefit shows here. 
The benefit performances were hardly unusual for Chapin, who says he did 130 such shows last year and raised close tJ $500,000. His wife even wrote a poem about the 34-year-old musical story-teller being away from home so much, a poem Chapin used as the basis for his biggest hit, "Cats in the Cradle." 
For Harry Chapin has a cause ­world hunger -and he says he's ready to devote the rest of his life publicizing problems of the world's hungry and urging Americans to act. 
Despite a winter storm and predictions of zero road visibility, Chapin drew about 800 to each of two solo benefits here at the Monmouth County Arts Center. 
The shows featured several cuts from his forthcoming album, indu­cing the title track, "Dance Band of the Titantic," as well as such Chapin favorites as "Taxi", "W­O-L-D" and "30,000 Pounds of Bananas." 
In the middle of the show, Chapin put down his guitar, walked to the front of the stage and delivered an emotional speech about hunger and politics that seemed to bewilder the 16-and 17-year-olds who made up most of the audience. 
"In a world of four billion 
, 
I, people, with food potential to feed eight billion, who do so many 
people go hungry every night?" he 
, asked. "In a country like ours, with 
,' 215 million people, we have enough food to feed one billion, yet 20
I 
million Americans go hungry each
~ 
night.'' 

Chapin told grim tales of old people eating cat and dog food to stay alive. He called the food problem ''a grim crisis, a silent crisis. Those affected, the cqronic­ally malnourished, don't wind up complaining because they're inac­tive, they're lethargic, hungry." 
His audience was attentive dur­ing the IS-minute talk, but visibly perplexed as most rock performers keep political messages to a mini­mum these days, knocking out their typical hour set and getting off stage. 
In an interview after the shows, Chapin said he hoped endless appearances for he ''World Hunger Year'' organization would arouse at least a vocal minority of Americans to work to change the nation's food policies, which he complained were designed to prevent growing of as much food as possible. 
Chapin conceded he could live much more comfortably if he kept a sl~ce of-·the proceeds from his 
· 

overwhelmingly Catholic. evidence in their defense ana 
All four defendants refused to refused to come into court Wed­recognize the legitimacy of the nesday to hear the guilty verdicts British court, contending they were against them. They were led into 
soldiers rather than criminals. the prisoners' dock singly Thurs­They refused to plead at the start day for Cantley to pass sentence. of the trial, refused to bring any 
SUNDAY MASSES 
(Main Church)  
5:15p.m. Sat.  Rev. Robert Griffin, C.S.C.  
9:30a.m. Sun.  Rev. Edward D. O'Connor, C.S.C.  
10:45 a.m. Sun.  Msgr. John J. Egan  
12:15 p.m. Sun.  Rev. William Toohey, C.S.C.  

VesJ,~ers will be at 7:15 p.m. in Lady Chapel. Msgr. John J. Egan will be the celebrant. 
.• TIMM PARTY STORE .• 
:oPEN: -MON-SAT 9 am-11 pro!
• 
• 

benefits. But the shows are impor­discussions, meeting people, learn • WINE., GOURMET FOODS : tant in giving him constant contact ing things from them on a firsthand • with people and material for his basis," he said. 3II4 S. II ST. NILES, MICIDGAN: 
• 

Chapin's songs are musical vig­
songs. 1 Block North of state line on U.S. 31 
"I'm a subway artist, not a nettes of the lives of ordinary • • limousine artist. My music is from people. 
----------------------------------------------------~ 

Here's the challenge. You'll need a watch and a pencil. Start with number 1 in the cen­ter of the ribbon. Then, as quickly as you can, cross out every number, one at a time in numerical order. When you've reached number 60, check your watch. If it look you less than three minutes, you've mel the challenge. 

When there's a challenge, quality makes the difference. 
We hope you have some fun with the challenge. There's another challenge we'd like to offer you, too. 
The Pabst challenge: 
We welcome the chance to prove the quality of our beer. We challenge you to taste and compare Pabst Blue Ribbon to any other premium beecYou'll like Pabst better. Blue Ribbon quality means the best tasting beer you can get. Since 1844 it always has. 

PABST. Since 1844. The quality has always.come through. 
©1976. PABST BREWING COMPANY Milwaukee. Wis., Peoria Heights. Ill.. Newark, N.J., Los Angeles, Calif., Pabst. Georgia. 
-..r 

Will serve in emergency 
Carter to test command jet 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The gleaming white $60 million jumbo jet sits at a military airport, ringed with guards, and bathed in security lights, ready to fly the President in case of any national emergency. 
President Carter will check out the Boeing 747 "National Emer­gency Aerial Command Post" plane today when he makes his first trip home to Plains, Ga. since taking office. 
He will be the first president to fly the sophisticated communica­tions jet from which the comman­der-in-chief would operate in time of national crisis. 
Carter decided to check out the plane on this trip as a means of saving "time, fuel and expense," since the plane has to be flown a certain number of hours regularly' Press Secretary Jody Powell told reporters in announcing the trip yesterday. 
But Powell said Carter has not decided whether he will use the jumbo jet or the regular Air Force One 707 of the presidential fleet for the return flight to Washington with his family Sunday. 
The jumbo jet is the first of six such military aerial command posts that the Air Force has on order. This one went into service in December 1974 and is kept under round-the-clock security guard, with spotlights illuminating it at night at nearby Andrews Air Force Base, where it is kept on alert for any emergency. 
The plane has capacity for stay­ing aloft for long periods of time, with facilities for aerial refueling. It has room to carry as many as 15 pilots to man the controls around the clock. It has conference and briefing rooms, sophisticated com­munications and living quarters for the command staff that would be in charge. 
Carter and members of his family and the usual small pool of reporters will go along. But nation­al security will limit the access of the press to protect secret areas of the plane. 
Carter decided to make the trip home on his fourth weekend in office. The department time from the White House was set for 3:30 p.m., the time Amy usually gets home from school. 
The President will land at War­ner Robins Air Force Base near Macon, Ga., a trip of an hour and a half from Washington. 
On his weekend off, the Presi­dent plans to take some important homework with him. One of the ma~or things he will be doing in Plams, Powell said, is reviewing key budget questions, particularly involving the Defense Department, in preparation for sending some of his own supplementary suggestion to Congress to change some areas of predecessor President Gerald R. Ford's budget. 
United Steelworkers elect president; loser hints election will be challenged 
PITTSBURGH (AP) -Lloyd Mc­Bride, backed by the United Steel­workers hierarchy in the race for the union's presidency, claimed victory yesterday over young chal­lenger Edward Sadlowski. 
But Sadlowski would not concede defeat and his aides hinted that the election for .top officers in the 1.4 million-member union would be challenged. 
Based on unofficial returns gathered by his carppaign staffs, McBride said he had a 75,000-vote margin over his opponent. A Sadlowski spokesman claimed his candidate was ahead by a slim lead of about 5,000 votes. 
An unofficial survey by The Associated Press put McBride ahead by 299,977 to 198,472 with about 4,000 of the union's 5,300 locals counted. 
McBride's unofficials returns gave him a lead of 281,632 to 196,263 at 4,5291ocals. Sadlowski's latest figures, which were posted early Wednesday evening, put him ahead 171.531 to 166,980 at 2,170 locals. 
About 500,000 votes were cast in Tuesday's election, a turnout con­sidered to be about normal. 
The race to control the USW, the largest member of the AFL-CIO, was bitter. McBride, who had the support of retiring President I.W. Abel, called Sadlowski a stooee for "outsiders" intent on gaining con­trol of the labor movement. 
Sadlowski labeled McBride "a pathological liar" and accused him of being more interested in the welfare of corporations than the rank and file. 
In claiming victory, McBride made a gesture of reconciliation. ''I want to assure the membership that we will work in harmony with all steelworkers and will do all we can to wipe away any scars of factional fights," he said in a statement released by his cam­paign headquarters here. 
John Askins, a Sadlowski spokesman, declined to say defin­
~ ----~---,---------­
Friday, February 11, 1977 the observer 1 1 

Dave Krempecki, Kevin Huston and Greg Ivancic warm up before their respective bowling matches. The three participate in the Dillon-South Dining Hall Workers league. Every Thursday, teams such as the High Rollers, the Quiegs and the Wild Bunch meet at Kosciuzko's 
in Mishawaka f!)r two hours of bowlinR, beerinR and general en'o ment. Photo b oe Burns. 
itely whether the election results would be challenged. But he added: "There's been so much vote fraud. With all the polling places, they only had to steal a few votes at each place and they could get 100,000." 
The union said the Department of Labor, which had 22 advisors assigned to the election, had been informed of only two challenges involving a total of 59 votes. 

McBride, 60, is a USW director from St. Louis who left school at age 14 to begin work in a factory. He is a union veteran of nearly 40 years and has pledged to follow the moderate policies of the Abel administration. 
Sadlowski 38, is a third-genera­tion steelworker who won his Chicago-area directorship in a court-ordered rerun of a fraudulent election in 1973. 
FOR SALE: One slightly used
NOTICES Joe Anonymous and Jerf or Morris­

Walk to school · 5 bedroom house in stat11e of Father Sorin. Good con­
Will teach you flute in your spare ey: This settles my debf. Hoe It's
time. Call Beth 8112. good condition. Rent summer by dition! Centrally located with good 
"good enough". Signed, Poor Help­
room or entire house in fall. 1014 N. view of Dome. Must sell -need 
less, Little Girl


Classified Ads
Eddy -reasonable. Call 233-2613 money quick!! Best offer. Call 3472. able for parties, concerts, formals, 
The Neon Wilde Band: Now avail­after 5:00p.m. 
Secret Caller: Just because 1 couldStudent Business Opportunity Ownetc. Call 7996 9-5 or 277-3448 after 
Need 2 San Francisco tix. $$ Call not bake it to the party at Crestwood
5. your own disco retail record shop . 
Jim 234-8083 after 5. Apartments doesn't mean we can't
LOST &{,FOUND sold complete... $6,000.00 or best 
be phone phriends. 1845.
offer. Call 291-1512 or (312) 528· phone evenings 272-8308. Found: set of GM car keys in front of Wanted · GA and student San 4566 or (518) 465-8256.
Papers professionally typed. Tele­
Francisco B-ball tix. Kevin 1816. Manager 1!16405: Do you give "Ski"·Flanner. Call Mike 1598. 
inr~ instructions? "Virginia is for
Giant Red Heart Sale Feb. 12-14.

Used books._ BOOK BARN 1 mile 
lovers"

Need ride to Columbus Feb. 25 calculator. Please return . no ques­Mall. Free T-shirt with $10 purchase 
north of Notre Dame 2725520. LOST: One Hewlett-Packard HP-21 Jennifers-upper level, Scottsdale 
(Friday). Call Tim 1658. 
TMT: 40's porthole is always open
tions asked. Call Steve 1478. Need 2 So. Carolina tix. Please call
Accurate, fast typing. Mrs. Donoho 
for you. E.K.LM.M.P.S.S.T.T. 
232-0746. Hours: 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. AUDIO OUTLET: top name stereo 
Mary 1280.
Lost: Women's CCM figure skates equipment. Wholesale. Call 283· 
mike gorman: have a good time on
in O'Shag. 30 yrs. old, new laces. 1181.
MORRISSEY LOAN FUND 

Cathy 4770. Wanted: Senior girl to share tur­your birthday, lover, and remember 
$20-150. 1 day wait. 1 percent 
your r~irl. carla
n ish ed apartment in Ch icaqo after Last chance to send sweets to yourInterest. Due in 30 days. LaFortune 
LDst: Class ring blue stone & shite graduation. Call Deb (312)3.57-3447. sweetie! Come to 109 Walsh to order
Basement. M-F 11:15-12:15. 
CAMPUS MINISTRY WEST OF­
r~old. Inscribed: Frank Walters. Valentine's Day candy for $.75. Need 2 tickets for North Dakota FICES GROUND FLOOR OF BADIN
Reward. Call 1177. We'll deliver. hockey game Saturday. Need 2 NOW STUDENT OPERATEDTo all Classified readers. be sure to 
read all the' ads today. 
F:'>OM 7:30 P.M. -MIDNIGHT
B-ball tickets for So. Carolina. Call Bill, 1867. SUN. THRU FRI. AVAILABLE FOR
Lost: a circular yellow onyx ear­
ring between Sorin and the circle or PERSONALStickets for the Feb. 23 Bruce Spring­SMALL GROUP MEETINGS, SOC­on bus to Holy Cross, SMC. Great sentimental value. Reward 4-4374. Wanted: Rides to Ft. Lauderdale for Are you a frustrated r~ymnast, or steen & The E Street Band concert IAL SPACE, STUDY, CONVER­
at the Auditorium Theatre in Chi­SATION.
break. Call Brian 1589 or 1516. 
want to learn some fundamental City ticket outlets: Just For The cago are now on sale at the River 
Lost: Pair of navy blue knit gloves r~umnastics? Come to the r~ymnas­
Swimmers: If you live off-campus
Record (1 oo Center) and Boogie with rust buckskin on the backside. Need a ride to Ft. Lauderdale for tics workouts Monday and Wednes­and want to form a team for the Feb.
Records (College Square). Lost near Holy Cross Hall & about 2 spring break. Will share drivinq & days at 6:00, and Fridays at 4:00 in 
expenses. Call Pat 15 i4. · 18 lnterhall meet, contact Mike
weeks ago. If found or know where­the r~ymnastics room at the Rocke. 
Villani at 287-4898.
abouts c;:all Cindy 259-2169. applications are now available for Need two Ga tix to So. Carolina Deebles, This is your last chance! 
W anna run your own bar? Juniors, Want a good meal? Come to 
positions of Senior Bar manager at Do you have my green coat? 1 have game. Call after 6 p.m. 288-0088. Call us or you'll be up the proverbial Lewisio's Spar~hetti Restaurant! Fri­
yours. Lost at an off-campus party creek sans paddle! The Girls
the office of Student Affairs (315 day 7 p.m. Lewis Rec Room. $1.50
Admins. Bldg.) or the Senior Bar. last Saturday night. Call 5128 (at Need ride to Cleveland any week­Call 7607.
Deadline: Feb. 16. Hurry! SMC). end. Call Fran 6865. Anne Hyatt -Roses are red, violets are blue, now that you're 20, Happy 
A.G.R.?! America Game Room,
Typing -$.35 a page. Call Dan: Timex gold watch with blue face and Ride needed. Desperately need one Birthday to you. Love, your roomie Silly people.
272-5549. gold band; it is a calender watch nde to Kalamazoo. Leave this and the Ganr~ with day of month only; if found call Friday, Feb. 11, after twelve noon. 
Call 5170 CSMC). Sinr~les only. Write Box 723 Notre
Brian 283-3793. 5th floor Rer~ina North: You are the
But you've got to have friends. Gay Dame. Enclose stamped envelope.
r~reatest!! We Jove you. MOMS .·...:__ ______________ 8770 this Sat. 10-12. 
Community of Notre Dame. Phone 
Lost: My anatomy notebook -pro­Need 4 San Francisco tickets for Lewisio's Restaurant spar~hetti pin­
bably in engineering aud.· It's real aspiring funeral director. Call Ray Fred, RUMOR has it, you're ooino 
ner S 1.50 Friday 7 p.m. Lewis Rec
important. Please call Tom at 1417. to get loaded this weekend. ·You-r 
Room. Tickets: s 1.50. Call 7607.
288-9916. conscience Wanted: Rug-12 x 14. Call 4-4122. 
FOR RENT Jimmy Ray: Thanks for invitino us

4. bedrooms, living room, dining My hands are blue since my gloves Charyl. Congratulations Hutch-baby! Now to your party! Julie & Teresa · 
room, kitchen. Utilities paid. S100 flew. L.Dst in LaFortune. Black just the big Talbot! Let's take off for per month. Call Oscar 233-1850. leather fur lined. Call Pat 288-7354. Ride needed to upper suburbs of the slopes again soon! Love, 
Happy Birthday to the "Kid" in 425
Chicago for Fri, 11th. Contact Frums & the Hick" 
HC. A friend.
Michelle at 4-5444.
3 room furnished house within L.Dst: Kingspoint calculator in En­
walking distance of campus. Rent 202 Pangborn: I like what 1 see on
gineering A~ditorium Wed. mor­Denise, I Jove going out with an
and utilities. One-half block from Wanted: House for next fall. East of the ice...but the hockey season is
ninr~. It was 1n a leather case that older woman. Happy Birthday. Your
Juniper preferred. Chris 287-5175 almost over. What do you do in the
Campeau St. Call 232-8.563. had a lot of sentimental value Irish Eskimo Vampire
after five. "off season?""''Kelsey"
(especially to my roommate . it was 5 bedrooms, 1.5 baths, furnished his). Please call 1857. 
To a roommale who pounds out
house, walk to campus, renting for Wanted: SF B-ball tix. Top$$. John Happy twentieth birthday old lady Chopin,
summer and-or fall. Call 259-7488 277-4855. Reb! Love, Ren and Remby And is also addicted to bran­
after 5:00p.m. WANTED Good luck isn't vital
Desperately need 2 GA and 1 Before your recital,

Need tickets for South Carolina. Call FOR SALE student basketball tic for South
Two bedroom house to rent. Sum­'Cause you'll 'fascinate' us at the
Tom 289-1485. Carolina. Call Mike at 284-4209 or 
mer and-or school year. 1012 Eddy Baby Grand!
~"or Sale: 1 student season bas­272-5884.
Street. s 120 mo. plus utilities. Call (But r~ood luck anyway!)
ketball ticket -cheap. Call 5236.
Am interested in renting garageOODlES HARRIS at 232-8563. 
space for my car close to campus. 
C:Jstom 250 ~ass amp. top and Kerry Boyle: Thanks for the battery Sood luck Cheryl and Sharon'!!
Call Billy, 283-3169.
Completely furnished housed rano­bottom 2 15" bass air cushioned jump at the rest stop on the Ohio inr~ from two to seven bedrooms 
Need 2 GA tickets to San Fran­->j.ll.:ilkers 5500. Call 288-8192. Turnpike on December 20, 1976. 
available for summer or next Sept. 
Rob, Pat, Warrencisco game. Call "Big Money Murf"ember. Call 234-9364 Mrs. Hum. 

h1J'1~r anytime. 234·8858. 
. -·· -·-.. --------------------------------------·----·-·. 

r 
Friday, February 11, 1977
12 the observe~--­



Brownschidle-the icers' backbone 
by John Stenson Sports Writer 

He's neither fiery nor flashy but when it comes to getting the job done, there is none better than icer co-captain Jack Brownschidle. The senior All-American from East Amherst. N.Y. controls the now much publicized Irish attack and has his sights set firmly on Detroit where his 4 years of sacrific"e and determination could pay off in the form of a National Championship. 
As far as the individual is concerned, Jack has achieved much of what he set out to do. Aside from his All-American honors, Jack has also played on the American Nat­ional team and received and invita­tion to try out for theU.S. Olympic team. The invitation was appealing to Jack, but in the end he decided to turn it down in favor of playing his junior year at Notre Dame. "It was a difficult decision for me to make but after considering the traveling involved and adding to the fact that I had already played against the Russians and Czechs when the nationals made the tour two years ago, I decided that a full year with the Irish squad was more important." His decision would prove to be a smart one as he received all WCHA and AU-Ameri­can Honors at his right defense position on the 75-76 Irish leers. 
As co-captain of this year's squad, Jack has found the adoption of a winning attitude as the biggest key to Notre Dame's success. "I think it is hard to single out any one thing as causing the turn around in this club, but developing a winning attitude was foremost in our minds from the beginning of the season and once this was properly devel­oped then we began to roll." And roll they did. After a so-so start the Irish put everything in high gear at the beginning of the new year and are now undefeated in their last ten WCHA starts. Winning makes Jack's job as captain all the easier with everyone on the team "in a very good winning type of mood. When we had the rough beginning it was much harder for Dukie and myself to keep everyone together and happy. The recent streak has obviously helped us greatly in this area.'' 
Another big reason for the teams turnaround has been the develop­ment of Dick Howe at left defense. Jack has been paired with the junior from Bemidji, Mn. and offers high praise for Dick's deter-
Tony Pace 

Pace's Picks 
Entering this third week of basketball predictions, it good to take a look at my record thus far. Concerning my selections of the winning teams the choices that have been made have been extremely accurate: of the 19 games I have forecast, I have chosen the winner in 17 contests. Quantitatively the results have been less than pleasing. In their three games of this past week, Notre Dame won by a total of 51 more points than I had predicted. Th~ assigned point spreads were much closer to the actual outcome m t~e two games that were telecast last Sunday; Louisville won by 4 pomts as predicted and Cincinnati won by 1 point where I had chose them by 
2. Hopefully, thi!i week's point spreads will be closer to the actual outcome. 
SATURDAY 
Clemson over MARYLAND by 6 points--After Wednesday's thrashing by North Carolina, the Terps should be breathing fire, but Lefty's squad just doesn't have it this year. Wayne "Tree" Rollins and his playmates should continue their most successful ACC campaign. 
PRINCETON over Columbia by 7 points--The Tigers are playing 
disciplined basketball, but they will be tested by Columbia's most 
successful team since the glory days of Jim McMillan and Heyward 
Dotson. Ricky Free, another of those collegiate stars who ''almost'' 
attended Notre Dame, is Columbia's leading gunner. 
KANSAS over Kansas State by 4 points--Though K-State whipped 
the Jay hawks earlier this season, I havechosenKansas on the advice 
of that renowned expert of Kansas Basketball, Jeff Crippin. 
NOTRE DAME over South Carolina by 5 points--The Irish have 
been rolling it up in their recent victories, but this one should be 
closer. The Gamecocks are a stylish club with Pete Maravich's 
alterego, Jackie Gillon, leading the way. 
Louisville over NEVADA-LAS VEGAS by 3 points--Thiswould be an 
entertaining match to watch and see, a real old west shootout. The 
third-ranked Cardinals are one of the most talented teams in the 
nation; they should give Jerry Tarkanian and his charges fits. 
SUNDAY 
Michigan over INDIANA by 3 points--Though a super game by Kent Benson could give the game to the Hoosiers, the Wolverines have a more cohesive unit at this juncture. Also, the Michigan team is much quicker than the bulkier Hoosiers and they may run circles around them. 
MONDAY 
NOTRE DAME over Butler by 20 points--Trying to gauge the point spread in this romp-to-be is a simple guess. Butler's team name is the Bulldogs, which probably describes how their coach looks after most games. 
WEDNESDAY 
N.C. STATE over Duke by 9 points--These two teams are already looking to next season. The Wolfpack is young and their growl should be more intense next season. Duke, on the other hand, is drooling over freshman-to-be, Gene Banks.The West Philadelphian recently announced his intention to matriculate at the Durham school. If he holds good on his promise, the Blue Devils could be at the top of the ACC next year. 
THURSDAY 
NOTRE DAME over Manhattan by 16 points--The Irish journey to the Big Apple to face the Jaspers at Madison Square Garden. Two years ago Toby Knight had a super homecoming game against St. John's, look for him to repeat that performance in his final collegiate performance in his backyard. 

ruination and ability. "Dick is a tremendous defensive player and knowing that he is on the ice with me adds to my confidence. I felt I 
had a slow start which may have affected Dick but in the last month we have played very well together as we have learned one another's moves and have begun to expect what the other will do." 
As far as the goalie situation is concerned, Brownschidle feels that we have two of the best and is very happy that both are playing the way they have been. "It would be very hard to have two goalies of Len's and John's ability and not play both. There may have been some hard feelings with the situa­tion at the beginning but right now I think everyone is really happy with the results it has produced." 
Minnesota did manage a tie in last weekends series that stopped the latest icers winning streak at 5, but Jack feels good in picking up 3 points in Gopherland . "We've always had trouble in Minnesota and I think we did well in picking up the three points." As far as this weekend is concerned, he looks for continued success against a Dakota team that has had their problems after a very fast start. 
Only time will tell what the future may hold for Jack. Ifthere is an offer to go pro, Jack would like to take it but he has also prepared himself to enter the job market if the offer does not surface. As far as Notre Dame is concerned, he is the stabling influence on a team that could find themselves in Detroit in March. If that is the case, it will be in no small part due to Jack Brownschidle who has achiev­ed everything else college hockey has to offer. 
Brown recalls the 'old' NFL 
CINCINNATI (AP) -Paul Brown can recall when things were much simpler for the National Football League. 
Brown's memories go back a long way. His name has been linked with the NFL since the 1940s when he built one of football's greatest dynasties at Cleveland. Later he took over a Cincinnati Bengals team which was just being born and is now general manager of that team. 
Brown remembers football's first so-called players' lawyer. He was a running back out of ·Notre Dame named Creighton Miller._ 
Miller was not as menacing a figure to the front office as today's labor lawyer, Ed Garvey, a leader of the attack on the current pro football structure. 
While Garvey and the NFL management council gathered in Chicago for collective bargaining talks, Brown reminisced about the 1950s when Bert Bell was commis­sioner and the "players union" was something lik~ the Fraternal Order of Eagle~. 
"It really wasn't a union," Brown said. "It was a players' group, no big thing for a long time. It was a social association, a change to get together, perhaps have a golf tournament. That's how it started out. I didn't pay much attention to it. Nobody did." 
Things have changed. 
"Our society is different," said Brcwn, who has gained admittance to Pro Football's Hall of Fame. "Elements that made things go just sort of worked together. For one thing, the money was entirely different-this being before televis­ion of course-and the players played a few years, then went to work. 
"The job is so lucrative now that they don't want to give it up. They want to keep playing even after they're finished. Professional foot­ball used to be played to get that first down payment on a house, that first child, that first automo­bile. It was an interlude in their lives. A time when they were young and fresh and they had a The commissioner's advice was zest to play the game. It wasn't simple, Brown recalled. looked upon as a career." "Enjoy this game while you 
Brown remembers those can," Bell would say. "But work on "friendly chats" Bert Bell would something else during the off­have with the players-it was a season so you have a career when manageable number then with only you quit playing football." 12 teams and between 33 and 36 Brown admits those days are players on a team. gone. 
... the 'new' NFL negotiates 
by Tom Seppy AP Sports Writer 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The Nat­ional Football League owners and players appear to be no closer today to settlement of labor differ­ences than they were three years ago when the last contract expired. 
The latest round of negotiations on a new collective bargaining agreement was broken off Thurs­day with the union apparently less optimistic than it was three days ago. Another meeting has been set for Monday in New York. 
"We are still hoping to achieve an agreement in the near future,'' was the word in a brief statement issued jointly by spokesmen for both the NFL Management Coun­cil, bargaining agent for the own­ers, and the NFL Players Associa­tion. 
The date for the next meeting is 
February 14. 
That is one day before the Feb. 15 deadline set by Ed Garvey, union executive director, for reach­ing an agreement which would include the blueprint for the hold­ing of a draft of college players, now declared illegal by a federal judge. 
There were reports that severat players' agents plan to file suit against the NFL challenging Com­missioner Pete Rozelle's order prohibiting the member clubs from negotiating with any college play­ers. The agents believe they need several months to negotiate a contract for their clients. 
Last week, both sides expressed 

optimism that an agreement could 
be reached quickly even if one 
could not be achieved at the 
meeting in Washington, the fourth 
to be held since Super Bowl week a 
month ago. However, the union's 
optimism apparently was dimmed 
after two days of discussions 
Tuesday and Wednesday. 
"After two days of negotiations 
there is absolutely no progress," 
Garvey said Wednesday. "It is not 
clear that the Feb. 15 deadline was 
unrealistic and there is little opti­
mism on our side." 
Prior to the meeting, Garvey said most of the issues, such as a pension plan, were "out of the way" but that there were at least seven major issues, such as the draft, on which the two sides were far apart. 
After Wednesday's meeting, one union source indicated that nego­tiations had taken a step backward. "Some things which we thought had been already agreed upon weren't." 
Representing the owners during the negotiations were Wellington Mara of the New York Giants and Dan Rooney of the Pittsburgh Steelers along with Sargent Karch, executive director of the NFL Management Council. 
The players had Dick Anderson of the Miami Dolphins. union president; Len Hauss of the Wash­ington Redskins. vice president; Randy Vataha of the New England Patriots. team representative. and Kermit Alexander of the Philadel· phia Eagles, former president. along with Garvey. 







