

SMC regents to discuss tuition increase possibility 
by Brlgid Rafferty Staff Reporter 
The recent decision to recom­mend an increase in St. Mary's tuition to the Board of Regents for the 1978-79 academic year is not a result of the proposed construction of a new library for the college. according to Dr. John Duggan, college president. 
"We are not going to fund the construction of our new library out of our operating budget," ex­plained Duggan. "Our operating budget runs the college. For exam­ple, we did not use current income to pay for the construction of Angela Athletic Facility. We will, however, pay for Angela's .opera­tion out of the budget.'' 
He stated that the significant increase in fees is dictated by corresponding rises in workers' minimum wages, faculty salary increases, and costs of energy and food, as well as increases in social security payments. "But," he no­ted, "relative to the cost of living, the cost of our education has not risen in ten years." 
"The construction of a new library is our number-one priority now," Duggan continued. "We need our own first rate undergrad­uate teaching library, with comfort­able space for students to study, and room for all of the volumes we now own. Our books are in four or five different locations now. We also need display space for our rare books." 
St. Mary's is actively formula­ting plans for a campaign to acquire funds for the new library. Instead of the large-scale fund drives used by larger instituions, St. Mary's hopes to launch a relatively low key campaign, and to establish it as an annual event. The campaign will be directed toward 

· alumnae, parents, and friends of the college although, Duggan no­ted, the very substantial donations will come from only a small percentage of the potential contrib­utors. 

Catholic bishops seek new teaching techniques 
W ASIDNGTON [AP] -Roman address that a prime church-job is Catholic bishops convened yester­to evangelize nominal Catholics to day to find new ways of teaching attain a firmer personal relation­their faith in a modern environment ship to Christ. which their top leader says has Many of them "have never become increasingly hostile toward experienced true conversion," he 
religion. "Christianity itself has almost the status of a counter-culture,'' said Archbishop Joseph L. Ber­nardin of Cincinnati, president of the National Conference of Catholic Bishops. "The Christian message is one that many persons would rather not hear," he said in an opening 


Although yesterday was a relief from Sunday's bitter cold, the ducks at St. Mary's lake are preparing for the trip south. 
.. ' "---------------­
Senior Death March staged 
by Bill Delaney 
Seniors will stage this years annual Senior Death March this Friday. The March will leave from the main circle .at 1:45 p.m. and continue through the afternoon until the Air Force pep rally, according to Jim Gardner, who, along with Jack Boehm, is organ­izing the event. 
The Senior Death March trad­itionally occurs the Friday before the last home football game. Seniors commemorate the occasion of their last home game as under­graduates by visiting, as a group, one local bar per hour for the afternoon. 
"The event is a cooperative effort between the Senior classes of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's," Gardner said. 
"This year, we are asking people to meet in front of the main circle to cut down on the use of cars," Gardner explained. "The first stop will be the Library at 2, then Bridget McGuire's at 3, Corby's at 4, and Lee's Ribs at S," he said. From Lee's, the March will proceed to the pep rally. 
Several of the bars on the route will be offering specials on beer and shots, Gardner added. Lee's Ribs was included as the last stop, he mentioned, "partly because people can get some food or dinner there." 
A parade permit could not be obtained for the march because of the cost, Gardner said, but "the South Bend police have been notified and they offered their assistance." The police will be on hand to prevent traffic congestion and keep things orderly, he added. 
James Roemer, dean of stu­dents. told Gardner and Boehm that he will not give administration approval to the Death March, but according to Gardner, Roemer won't interfere with it either, since it is an off campus activity. 
''We originally wanted to include the Senior Bar as the last stop," Gardner said. "but Dean Roemer 
said, noting that they have been only "practical" or "minimal" Catholics with varying degrees of apathy or even hostility and that some no longer practice their faith at all. 
Gone are the days when the social atmosphere tended to sup­port "cultural Catholics" in allegi­ance to the church, he said in an accompanying interview released here. "Now it is quite different." 
In the changed, often anti-reli­gious atmosphere, he said, "an individual has to chose to be a Catholic. And, having made the choice, he or she must work hard at it." 
As for young people, he added, 
"the larger culture simply doesn't 
give them the kind of support for 
religious beliefs and values which 
many of us older Catholics enjoyed 
when we were growing up. 
"If anything, many of the atti­
tudes and values they encounter 
are quite inimical to the Catholic 
tradition.'' 
He said the church needs to get 
"on fire with a zeal to proclaim 
Jesus Christ and His good news" 
to revitalize the convictions of its 
people. 
The archbishop said it is unreal­

istic for the church to concentrate · on evangelizing the 80 million 
unchurched Americans ''when so 

many Catholics themselves have . yet to experience conversion." 
said 'no."' 
two years have staged Death event. But the seniors of the oast Marches that went smoothly. 

Corby's is the third stop for this year's Senior Death March on Friday. but even as the third stop, this pole may find someone to hold it up! 


AMA, ABA recommend marijuana decriminalization 
CIDCAGO [AP] -The nation's most influential organizations of professionals, the American Medi­cal Association (AMA) and the American Bar Association (ABA), joined this week to call for the elimination of criminal penalties for marijuana use. 
The doctors' and lawyers' groups issued a statement that called on the U.S. Congress and state legis­latures across the country to "de­criminalize" the use of marijuana. It is the strongest statement so far on the marijuana situation by either group. 
Under decriminalization, posses­sion of small amounts of marijuana would be legal, but those appre­hended with large amounts would still be subject to penalties. Backers say it is a way of bringing marijuana law more in line with public preferences without going as far as complete legalization. 
President Carter has endorsed decriminalization and the admini­
stration announced proposed legis­
lation in August. The U.S. Senate 
is preparing to consider a similar 
bill that would eliminate jail terms 
and arrest of users who were found 
on federal property with less than 
an ounce of marijuana. 
The joint AMA-ABA statement, 

issued by the AMA president, Dr. 
John H. Budd, and the ABA chief, 
William B. Spann, concluded, "We 
believe the time has come to 
liberalize laws regarding 'the pos­
session of marijuana for personal 
use. In too many states, statutes . exact punishment that far exceeds the crime." 
"We agree with President Car­

ter, who showed a reasonable attitude· in asking that the posses­. sion of insignificant amounts for personal use should not subject the 
user to criminal penalties." 
The statement said the groups do 

not condone the use of marijuana. 
But they called for "reason and 
moderation" in laws controlling its 
use. 
Senior Fellow election rules 
The Senior Class Fellow Committee has announced the election rules for nominating the Classs of 1978 Senior Fellow: 
1. 
Each Senior will be given the opportunity to vote for his/her 1st, 2nd, 3rd, and 4th choice on the given ballot. 

2. 
Write in votes will not be counted. 

3. 
1st place votes will receive 8 points. 2nd place votes will receive 4 points. 3rd place votes will receive 2 points. 4th ,place votes will receive 1 point. 



4. 
Candidates will be invited to be Senior Oass Fellow on the basis of their total points. 

5. 
In the event that any senior does not follow the election· procedures and does not vote for four candidates, that senior will forfeit his first place vote. 

6. 
Seniors must include their name and ID number on the ballot. All ballots will be checked against a University class roster. 


Nominees are: 
ALAN ALDA 
BILL BRADLEY 
.ART BUCHWALD 
BILL COSBY KATHERINE GRAHAM ALEX HALEY BOB HOPE HUBERT HUMPHREY BARBARA JORDAN JERRY LEWIS RICHARD LUGAR STEVE MARTIN RALPH NADER CARL SAGAN 
O.J. SIMPSON BRUCE SPRINGSTEEN 
SYLVESTER STALLONE TED TURNER KURT VONNEGVT JOHN WAYNE HENRY WINKLER ANDREW YOUNG 


2 the oburver Tuesday, November 15, 1977 
,..News Briefs----............ 
t==:================================::::: World 
'Food Corps' proposed 
ROME .: U.N. Ambassasdor Andrew Young, saying that food "underpins all other human rights," has proposed a "Food Corps" of youth volunteers to combat hunger in poor countries. He s .id his corps proposal would bypass bureaucracies and extend direct aid to the estimated 500 million hungry in the world. 
London .firemen on strike 
LONDON •• Almost all of Britain's 33,000 regular firemen went on strike yesterday for more pay, but a hastily trained force of soldi~rs and volunteers using outdated equipment seemed to cope well w~th the first day's emergencies. The strike shows no prospect of a qu1ck 
end. 

1:::::::========================::::::=:::: National 
Goldstein trial ends ~ 
KANSAS CITY, Kansas •• After an overturned conviction, a tight for a change of venue and an illness that brought yet more delay, the obscenity retrial of sex magazine publisher AI Goldstein neared its end yesterday--almost three years after he was indicted. The i2-count indictment was handed up in December, 1974, after four postal inspectors in Kansas subscribed to Goldstein's "Screw" and "Smut" magazines under ficticious names and then returned the unopened copies to New York. 


Tape's location still mystery 
NEW YORK •· Gino Gallina, the lawyer murdered gangland-style on Nov. 5, had told federal officials that he could identify the killers of Teamsters Union boss Jimmy Hoffa, according to Time magazine. Testifying befor a Newark grand jury shortly before his death, Gallina said he had hidden a tape recording that included the killers' voices discussing the murder, and that Hoffa's body could be found from information on the tape. The recording has not been found. 
0.


Weather tlr,1_1 
\\\ 1 

Variable cloudiness with a 40 percent chance of showers today and tomorrow. Highs today will be in the mid SO's, with lows tonight around 40..Tomorrow, highs will be in the low to mid 50s. 



~On Campus Today _ _. 
noon 
1:15pm 
3 pm 4:30pm 
4:30pm 7 pm 7 pm 7 pm 7 pm 
7:30pm 
7:30pm 7:30pm 8 pm 
8 pm 9 pm midnight 
12:15 am 6:30am 
discussion, "panama canal treaty", led by rev. fernando guardia of the chancellor's office of the archdiocese of panama, caron court, Iafortune. 
social science mini course, "introduction to questionaire development," by bonnie katz, spon­sored by social science training & research lab, rm. 509, mem. lib. 
career workshop, "assertiveness training," suzanne areson, std. affairs conf. rm. smc. 
seminar, "arboviruses & disease in pacific oceana," dr. leon rosen, sponsored by bio. dept. galvin aud, public invited. 
meeting, american professors for peace in the m1ddle east, bulla shed, faculty invited. 
career workshop, "Interview skills," kathleen rossmann, rm. 161 lemans. 
career workshop, "job search," mary Iaverty & suzanne howard, mccandless piano room. 
film, "state of siege", sponsored by lias, lib. aud. & lounge. 
meeting, bicycle club, basement of Iafortune. 
speech, digger phelps, angela athletic facility smc, open to public. 
eucharist, charismatic eucharist, log chapel, open to all. story & theology, "gospel of mark," sponsored by religious studies dept. smc, rm. 247 madeleva. 
talk, dr. j. duggan, president of smc, sponsored by theacademic commission of fisher hall, fisher hall basement. 
fashion show, annual ebony fashion fair, o'laughlin aud., call 232-6651 for ticket info. 
nazz, "east coast music and something else too," basement of Iafortune. 
album hour, ozark mountain daredevils "don't look down" on wsnd 640 am. ' 
nocturne nightflight, progressive rock and jazz with joan luttmer, wsnd 88.9 fm. ' 
a.m. this morning, with jeff hebig, sue ursitti and wendy griffin, wsnd 640 am. ' 


Final eiE~ctions for Senior Fellow slated fc) begin Wednesday 
by Pat Dermody . . . 

Fmal e_lectton~ for Semor Class Fellow wdl b_egm tomorrow at 11 a.m., accordtng to Senio1· Class Fellow Committee Chairman Eliza­bet~ Naquin. Seniors may vote durmg meal hours at both the Nort~ an~ South Dining Hall, Naqum sa1d. Polls will also be open in the l_obby of LaFo~une fr?m noon untd 5 P·~· ~lect10ns wdl close at 6 p.m. th1s Fr1d.ay, she noted. . 
The ballots wdl ask seniors to rank their choices first, second, third, and fourth. Each ballot must contain the names of four different candidates as well as the seniors na~e~ and ID . numbers. No wrJte-m votes wdl be accepted. "Any additions to the list of candidates would. have bee111 made at the forum," said Naquin. 
!; l Music studellltS 
· 1t0 present feCf"tal 
Students from the music 

, composition class of Prof. David Isele will present a recital o:f their work at 8:15 p.m. Wednesday in Crowley Recital Hall. The pieces, for piano. orchestra, brass, and woodwinds, are by John Colligan, Michael Moses, Kendall Rafter, and Mark Stoneburner. 

Soph course Cclrds to be distributed 
Checkmarked course cards for sophomores will be distributed tomorrow beginning at 8:30 a.m. for the following departments of the College of Arts and Letter:~:: art, arts and letters non-departmental, economics, English, music, speech and drama, philosophy and · theo­logy 

CORRECTIC>N 
Last Friday's Observer article on the Faculty ~':!nate meeting stated that "In rare cases, faculty mem­bers have been allowed to teach full-timepast the age of 65." This statement was made by Prof. Paul Bosco at the meeting. 
Prof. Emerson Funk replied to Bosco's statement, noting that of the 81 faculty members who reached the age of 65 from 1966 to 1976, 27 were allowed to continue teaching full time from one to six years. These figures were supplied by the administration, as ord•eJred by Judge Marvin McLaughlin at the request of the attorney repre­senting Prof. James Danehy in his suit against the University. 
Funk's statement was mistak­enly ommitted from Friday's article. 
*The Observer 
Night Editor: Leigh Tunaken 
Asst.  Night  Editor:  Sandy  
Colson  
Editorial  Layout:  Carmen  

Carbone Sports Layout: Greg Solman Typists: Gwen Coleman, Sue 
Scribner, Tom Powanda, Lisa DiValerio Night Controller: Mardi Nevin Day Editor: Tom Nilsson Copy Reader: Tom Byrne, Joan Fremeau Photographer: Julie Palafox 
3 days till Senior Death March 
The Obsuver Is published Mon­dey ft11'11Uih Frldly exatpt during exem end veutlon periods. Tile Observtr Is published by the students of Notre Deme end Selnt Mery•s College. ~ Subscriptions mey be purchesed for S20 per yeer ($1 0 per semester) from The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Deme, dndlene U556. Second 
0.11 poatege peld, Notre Deme, lndlene, 4UU. . The Observer Is • member of the A11ocletecl Prell. All repro­duction r11hts are reserved . 
.. .... .-.. -.............. .. 
Votes will be counted on a "total points" basis. Each senior's first choice will receive eight points. His second choice will get four points, third will get two, and a fourth place choice will receive one point. The candidate with the most points will be the first one invited to be Senior Class Fellow of the class of 1978. 
Any senior who does not vote for four candidates will forfeit his first place vote, the rules state. His choice or choices will then receive only four, two or more point depending upon the number of names listed. 
The Senior Class Fellow Com­mittee has asked that seniors consider each candidate carefully before they cast their votes. "The Senior Class Fellow is not a commencement speaker," empha­sized Naquin. "He is an individual who comes to campus during the 
spr~ng semester as a guest of the semor class." Naquin also said that the Senior Class Fellow should be a person whom seniors are proud to consider as an honorary member of their class. "The individual chosen should not only have performed significantly in his or her field, but should also embody the spirit and lifestyle of the Notre Dame Class of 1978," she stressed. Integrity. leadership and crea­
tivity are personal qualities which should be highly regarded when considering a candidate Naquin explained. 
"We want the Senior Class Fellow's visit to be one which the entire Senior Class will enjoy. That is why we are hoping for a good turnout during the elections," she concluded. 
Brief personality profiles of each of the candidates will appear in tomorrow's issue of the Observer. Any questions may be directed to Elizabeth Naquin at 8007. 

Katz offers mini-courses 
Mini-courses in questionnaire development and interviewing techniques will be offered by Bonnie Katz this week. 
Today Katz will introduce the 
basic considerations involved in questionnaire development and give insights into the total survey
research process. The lecture will be held in Room 509, Memorial Library. from 1:15-2:15 p.m. 
Next Tuesday Katz will present a lecture and workshop on interview­ing techniques. The lecture will cover requirements of an inter­viewer, ethics, how to conduct an interview. and students will be required to practice interviewing. 

~------------------------------~ 
TONITE: 9-11 pm 




EAST COAST 
music and something else too no admission charge 
An~one interested in the position of Obseruer Features Editor should contact the Obseruer office (4th floor LaFortune, tel. 7471) between 9 and 5. All applications should be in b~ Friday, Nou 18. 
:::::::::::::;:::::~:;:~:=:~:=:=:~:~:=:~:=:~:=:=:~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~:~:~:;:::~:~:~:~:::::::::~:;:;:=:~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=:::::::::::::::::::::::::::. 



MILLER LITE PARTY 
2 for $1.00 
.free CORBY's T-shirts & Corby mugs 
complements of UTE beer 
Tuesday Night 7:00 -3:00' ., 
~--~~-.--~.--.--.-----.----------------------------~--------~~ ~-----­
Tuesday, November 15, 1977 the observer 

On Latin Church 
Quigley gives message of hope 
procedural obstacles can  be over­ 
come.  
In this regard. they  are  awaiting  


by Janice McCormack 

Thomas Quigley, advisor of Latin America to the US Catholic Con­gress, (USCC), pronounced his hope for the future of the Church in Latin America to a small audience in the Library Auditorium last night. 
Quigley lectured on ''The Chal-
Vance Mid-East trip under consideration 
WASHINGTON AP-The Carter administration is considering a trip by Secretary of State Cyrus R. Vance to the Middle East in Januray if a Geneva conference cannot be convened this year. 
Under consideration as well, officials said Monday, are meetings next month in Europe between Vance and Arab and Israeli foreign ministers in an effort to promote peace talks. These are only options at this point and no consultations have been held with other govern­ments. Administration leaders still hope the internal Aab dispute over Palestinian participation and other 
the outcome of the meeting of Arab foreign minister in Tunis and talks later this week in Damascus be­tween Presidents Anwar Sadat of Egypt and Hafez Assad of Syria. 
lenge of the Church in Latin America Today" as part of Latin America Awareness Week. He outlined his "six thesis state­ments" concerning the Church in Latin America. 
According to him Latin America "harbors within itself the most reactionary Church" in society today. The Latin American Church 

*The ObServer 
!~ W8~~"e9 J~~~5~~~~~ed applicants 
ASSISTANT AD MANAGER. 
SALARY, ADVANCEMENT POTENTIAL AND EXCELLENT WORK EXPERIENCE ARE OFFERED. 
schedule interview at Observer office, 3rd floor LaFortune mon. • fri. till 5:00pm 
"It mostly depends on Tunis," said one knowledgeable U.S. of­ficial. 
Meanwhile, in another develop· ment, the State Department re­jected a Palestinian proposal that the United Nations Security Coun­cil endorse a statement recognizing "legitimate rights" of the Pales­tinians. 
The statement, adopted by the United States and the Soviet Union on Oct. 1, "is not to be taken as the prescription for getting to Geneva or as the blueprint for that confer­ence," said Hodding. Carter, the department spokesman. 
Besides, he said, "we should not favor any new resolutions by the Security Council which we believe would complicate diplomatic con­tacts underway." 
The spokesman's comments were in response to an unofficial [Continued on page 6) 

is one ofthe "most progressive and socially committed" churches despite the fact it is profoundly poor. 
Quigley also noted that no other church is more deeply divi_ded. It could, in fact, be considered "two distinct Catholic Churches." On the other hand, he continued, no other Church is more united along national and linguistic borders. 
Quigley believes that the Latin American Church is the one most affected by the United States. According to him it is "the signifi· cant other" or the "principle advisary" ofthe Church in the US. 
Finally, Quigley emphasized that this church has ''more to say to the 
U.S. Church than any other." 

After reviewing the recent history of oppression and terrorism against the Church in Latin Amer­ica, Quigley discussed at length the political, social and religious systems of Brazil, Chile and El Salvador. He concluded by empha­sizing the strong union of the Church in these countries. 
Quigley has been advisor to the 
usee for the past twelve years. 
The conference is part of the 
Bishops Organization located in 
Washington D.C. Prior to this 
advisory position he was the assis­
tant secretary of the Latin Ameri­
can Bureau, an organization that 
was a part of the Conference. His 
lecture was sponsored by the Latin 
American Service. 

Latin America Awareness week continues tonight as the film "State of Siege," based on the kidnapping of American Agricultural Advisor Tom. Quigley spoke of "the Church in Latin America" to a Don Mitrioni in Uruguay, wiii be responsive audience in the Library Auditorium last night. shown at 7 in the Library Audi­[Photo by Julie Palafox l torium. 




Volunteers asked to donate tix 
Maribeth Moran 
Staff Reporter 

Two of the community's most active volunteer organizations need student tickets for the Air Force game this Saturday. The Big Brother-Big Sister program is look­ing for approximately 25 tickets to take their little brothers and sisters to see the game, while the ND­SMC Council for the Retarded (NDCR) needs between 150 and 200 passes for the clients at Logan Center. 
Collection efforts in past years 


GRADUATE STUDY IN. 
SCIENTIFIC MANAGEMENT TECHNIQUES 
Case Western Reserve University Dept. of Operations Research 
If you have a bachelors degree and an ·ability to work with quantitative tools andfor computers, you may wish to broaden your horizons by learning scientific methods which are useful in solving management decision problems in business, industrial and governmental organizations. Employment opportunities for graduates are excellent. 
CLASSES IN EVENING AND DAYTIME AREAS INCLUDING 
• 
Mathematical Programming • Dynamic Programming 

• 
Data Processing and Computers • Computer Programming 

• 
Decision Theory • Applied Statistics 

• 
Production/Inventory Control • R & D Management 

• 
Operations Management • Systems Analysis 

• 
Computer Simulation • Mathematical Investing 


LEADING TO: M.S. in Operations Research (1-2 years) Ph.D. in Operations Research (3-5 years) 
Apply Now for Spring or Fall Semester 
Classes Begin January 16 or August 28, 1978 
r-----------------------------~----­
2 
11 

For complete information and application forms contact by mail or call: 
I 

Department of Operations ResearchI Case Western Reserve University • Cleveland, Ohio 44106 I 1 (216) 3ss-414o I 
I NAME I
I ------·-·-·--·---I 
ADDRESS PHONE
I ~~;~·-_---~--·----~-A-;~~----·-;IP 
J, •"'t!.! U.U.-"-"-"'.4. i.U.ti.!..!.!L.<~..1..f.~...u.u.~u:...~J:..J~.iJ.uu.-c..&.Au<..u"-£&.tl.« -----­
c:__:___,.).__ • 
II 
_____j 

have been extremely successful according to Jean Conboy, co-di­rector of NDCR. For the past several yeai:s NDCR has made the outing an annual event that in­cludes the game, a cookout and a songfest beforehand. 
Last week, the children at Logan made banners in anticipation of a victory by the Irish. According to Conboy, "tht. kids are really look­ing fotv. ~rd to the day." NDCR is ·still look. ng 'or student volunteers to escort the children to the game. Anyone interested may call either Jean Conboy at 284-4391 or Art 
Koebel at 287-7059. 

Big Brother-Big Sister has been 
organized on a group basis for the 
first time this year, according to 
Dan Munroe, the organization's 
campus coordinator. ''This is the 
first year that we are organized on 
a group level, usually it's a 
one-to-one relationship. This year 
we hope to do more things as a 
group." Big Brother-Big Sister 
?eeds approxi~ately 25 tickets for 
tts group, whtch may be dropped off at the dining halls at the NDCR tables this week. 
Off-campus students may leave their tickets at the Student Activi­ties office in LaFortune. Both Conboy and Munroe noted that· while the regular Notre Dame or ss_~ Mary's student is able to see several football games a year many of these children might not get a chance. 

Monday & Tuesday.I Special at 
LO_UIE'S 

with every laree pizza you get a two beer special for 2Sc:!! 
c. 'th • · 

~WI a mediUm piZZa -one 25C: beer! 
********************************** 
Who's going to be ready 




You ..• that's who! 
Think Snow's Skiwear insulated with Down, Polar Guard, & Fiber Fill II will keep you wann when the Indiana winter gets rough. Parkas from $40! So, get ready for the first snow at 
-.. 

.... 
.. 0... 

:::r 
CD 

.... 
...
-· 
en 
~ 

********************************** 
"*The Observer an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's 
The Observer is published by students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions and letters 
·are the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and letters are encouraged to promote the free expression of varying opinions on campus. 
Business Manager Sue Quigley BoxQ Advertising Manager Steve Bonomo Notre Dame Production Manager Karen Chiames Ind. 46556 

EDITORIAL BOARD 

Marti Hogan Editor-in-Chief Martha Fanning Managing Editor Bob Brink Asst. Managing Ed Kathy Mills Executive Editor Maureen Flynn Editorial Editor Barb Breitenstein Exec. News Editor Jean Powley St. Mary's Editor Katie Kerwin News Editor Barb Langhenry News Editor Paul Stevenson Sports Editor Pat Cole Special Projects Ed. David O'Keefe Features Editor 
Copy Editor Joan Fremeau Photo Editor Leo Hansen 
Tuesday, November 15, 1977 




P.O.BOXQ 

Thanks to Ombud 

Dear Editor: 
I would very much like to thank Tom Hanel, John Malcolm, Mandy Lowell and Mary Wood of the Ombudsman service for their work on Sunday night. Without these people many of the sophomores would not have received their Form SO's until Monday afternoon. They spent several hours Sunday even­ing, first tracking down the Form SO's and then distributing them to the twelve or so dorms which hadn't received them. 
Too often the Ombudsman is taken for granted, so I would like to · thank them, not only for myself, but for all the other sophomores these Ombudsmen helped. 
lUck Pla.koweld 

Improve Security on St. Mary's Rd. 
Dear Editor: 
This article is in reference to the danger that lies between the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's community, namely St. Mary's Road. It is a known fact that numerous assaults have occurred on "rape road." 
The Nov. 9 issue of The Observer carried an article entitled ''Two SMC Women Attacked, Raped." Unfortunately this is not the first nor the last assault that will take place this year. H you recall, on Sept. 6 there was a SMC student assaulted in Holy Cross Hall. Security successfully apprehended the assailant. 
Dr. Kathleen Rice, dean of Saint Mary's students, in the Nov. 9 issue, stated that the girls "were walking down the lane toward Notre Dame, which we've been telling people not to do; even though they were in two's it didn't help." 
I have walked "the lane" many a night; when the weather is perfect for a night stroll one finds it hard to restrain oneself from getting away from the books. It is a shame that any SMC-ND woman can not enjoy a twilight walk without looking over her shoulder every two minutes. 
I am proposing that immediate action be taken. If Notre Dame can afford to spend "over $100,000" on remodeling the LaFortune Center and Saint Mary's can afford a Sl,OOO,OOO athletic facility, llanly, without a doubt, ~ther the campuses can afford to build two security stations on "rape road." As most of the students know, "the lane" curves by the graveyard and opens into a straight westerly path to SMC. Locations for these security stations should be estab­lished on the graeyard curve and just east of the light on U.S. 31: perfect positions for security aid stations. These stations will help eliminate fears that incapacitate female students during the dark hours. The assault rate on "the lane" will undoubtedly decrease. 
How many more assaults must occur before serious action is taken?!!! 
Mau.reea A. O'Brien 

P.S. I am a freshman enrolled at SMC. 


Disgruntled Alumnus 

Dear Editor: 
Congratulations to President Hesburgh, ex-Provost Burtchaell and Dean Roemer for their "mercy "mercy" plea to go easy on their Elkhart neighbor involved in the biggest gambling operation in Mi­
chiana during recent times. After all, "that's the Christian way of dong things, isn't it?" Maybe the University com­munity ought to take up a collection to pay off the $20,000 fine because not enough mercy was shown by the federal district judge. It was only gambling, not parietals (Hun­ter) or pot (Best). 
An aghast alumnus, F.X.Murphy South Bend, Ind. 
Five Points 

Called on 

University 

Dear Editor: 
In regard to the article which appeared in the Nov. 1 issue of The Observer concerning the Food Ser­vice at Notre Dame, I would like to make several points and perhaps clarify some points already made. 
The University's vague press release stated that the reasons for contracting an out'i'idc firm are ''economic-'' Point 1: If there are currently 215 employees involved in the Food Service, there is nothing "econo­mical'' about adding three new 
managers to an already compc:~tent staff. Point 2: Though Saga assured! the food workers "job security, wage and benefit programs and con­tinuations of present unive1rsity employee policies," the article failed to state that this assurance lasts only till the end of this school year. Thus, the reason for tluee new managers no doubt. Point 3: Personnel Director G. Thomas Bull is quoted as saying "Notre Dame employees will be transferred to Saga's payroll and be retained. No one will be sub1ect to losing his job." Mr. Bull failed to explain the fact that manage­ment administrators are goin~: to be re-evaluated by Saga at the end of this school year. Many will be given the choice? to relocate with another University or college Saga serves -This being their only alternative to quitting. Hence, adopting the Christian ''take it or leave it" policy. These tactics, though legal, are a moral slam on the Universit:. Point 4: The article states that Saga had been negotiating with Notre Dame since 1972 and arrangements were finalized within the past year. Let it be known that to my understanding only a proposal was made in 1972 and arrangements were finalized within the past month. Letters were went out late in October pointing out various benefits provided by the University for its' employees-including . the Food Service. Two days after these letters were sent out the pr1~ss release was issued about the S~tga contract, and by the end of the week the employees were on Sagas' payroll. Point 5: In the article, Person111el Director G. Thomas Bull em­phasized that the change "does not diminish employees' rights to se:ek unionization." What a cop out. The University is obviously using the food service as a threat and example to discourage other Univ­ersity employees who are thinking of unionizing. By contracting an outside firm, the University is taking the easiest way out oravoid facing and dealing with the sit­uation-which in turn has upset the lives of many of it's Food Service administrators who have work•ed for the University faithfully for many year. 
I have been proud to proclaim my affiliation with Notre Dame for the past two years -_I sincerely hope that disilusioned pride will not tum into shame and bitterness by further questioning of the values, morals, and ethics under which the University operates. 
The Black Students' protest against racist attitudes, the Judi­cial Board controversy, the Groundskeepers' Rights coalition and now the Royal Food Servi1:e s---w. Thus, another episode :lp the continuing "Saga" of the declining morals of this gre;!lt Catholic University. 
K. Aroolld 




Food Fast 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii bob jacobs 
It gets old, I know. Every year about this time, when you're smiling, thinking about turkey, some turkey shows up on TV (or in The Observer) and tells you to think about Bangladesh. Puts a damper on the festivities, as it were. Nobody wants to hear about Monday on Saturday, and nobody wants to hear about Bangladesh (or the South Bronx, or even. the corner of Western and Eddy) on Thanks­giving. On Thanksgiving we want to give thanks--for our families and our homes ... and our refrigerators. Because prosperity is only the flipsia'e of penury, we want to give thanks that the coin hit right. Thanksgiving is a time for joy and this is an essay about joy. But there is an unsung joy, a sober joy in the absence of despair, and this joy too should be celebrated at Thanks­giving. It is this joy that inspires our most profound gratitude. 
All of this is but to endorse a fast, "A Fast for a World Har­vest" sponsored by Oxfam. Oxfam is funded, in part, through the largess of the ND-SMC student body via the World Hunger Coali­tion. Oxfam (originally the Oxford Committee for Famine Relief) des­cribes itself as "a small, non-profit international agency that sup­ports ... self-help development pro­jects in the third world." Like the Hunger Coalition, Oxfam is essen­tially a conduit for relief funds as it seeks out and supports "the efforts of local people who are working toward social and economic change." 
The "Fast for a World Harvest" is an annual event and will be observed across the country on Nov. 17, the Thursday before Thanksgiving. The Fast is a major fund-raising event for Oxfam as it has raised $430,000 over the last three years. The Fast has been especially successful in the Boston area -Wellesley and Middlebury Colleges, for example, actually closed their dining halls for a day and donated the sum that was saved to Oxfam. Oxfam has used the proceeds from the Fast to bankroll 36 self-help projects in 25 countries on three continents. 
Oxfam, in short, is an admirable program and the Fast is an admirable cause; the World Hun­ger Coalition endorses both. In fact, a recent half-page ad in The New York Times in support of Oxfam's Fast was signed by-among others-Fr. Hesburgh, Margaret Mead and Ethel Kennedy. 
The Hunger Coalition urges everyone to Fast--not to raise money this time (ND-SMC people have been exceptionally generous with their contributions) but to raise consciousnesses. There's a lot going on beyond the shadow of the Dome and much of it's none too cool. For all the iniquities we encounter here at Notre Dame, we should still, on balance. be extra­ordinarily grateful. When you read, for example, about the baby for­mula "famine," thank God that you have enough to eat. When you read about the murders and ban­nings in South Africa, thank God that you are an American. And when you read about a grounds­keeper with eleven kids who takes home S75.00 a week and has his job "contracted out" when he at­tempts to join a union, thank God that you are a student. 
November 17. the Thursday be­fore Thanksgiving, is an excellent time to reflect in thanksgiving on our individual and communal bles­sings and blessings-in-disguise. In addition, the World Hunger Coali­tion will sponsor services at the Walsh Hall chapel and the Holy Cross (SMC) campus ministry of­fice for this intention. The United Religious Community of South Bend will also hold a "community­wide ecumenical ~rvice" at the First Presbyterian Church, 383 W. Colfax, at 7:30 p.m. Catch one of these services if you can. 
Step back November 17, and think about who and where you are and know that it could have been otherwise. Skip lunch and/or din­ner this Thursday and know that for you, hunger is an option and not a necessity. Let your belly call your mind to gratitude. 
Tickets In 
Demand at 



St. Mary's 

Dear Editor: 
I go to St. Mary's and I Jove it here. I have the best of both worlds -a small college atmosphere where everyone is friendly and relaxed, and a large university atmosphere where there is a great camarade­rie and patriotism for their school. Well, I think St. Mary's is a part of that camaraderie . We like Notre Dame and we like being a part of the Notre Dame -St. Mary's community. Why then are we so segregated at times? Don't tell me its because the nuns want it that way. The sisters of the Holy Cross declined to merge with Notre Dame, not because they didn't want to become a part of that reputable university, but because they wanted to maintain St. Mary's as the small Catholic wo­men's college it is -a .thing it is proud to be! 
In spite of our avid support of Notre Dame, St. Mary's is not always treated with the respect it deserves. It was terrible that St. Mary's students had to pay more for theNavy game football tickets than the spouses of Notre Dame graduate students! It was unfor­tunate on activities night that St. Mary's students were not allowed to join the Dancing Irish. But it is even worse that they have stripped us of the privilege of watching the Notre Dame basketball team per­form! I don't believe the reason the St. Mary's students were wheedled out of their basketball tickets was a means of revenge or meant to humiliate us. I realize that basketball tickets were in tight demand. But why then weren'tSt. Mary's students informed earlier so that they could have looked for other means of obtaining tickets? 
Since Notre Dame allots tickets to the South Bend community for their contributions in the building of the ACC, to the Alumni for their contributions through the years, and to the present Notre Dame students for their continued sup­port, why was St. Mary's left out? One hundred -fifty tickets among 1700 students give only a few lucky girls the chanc~ to share in the excitement and thrill of Notre Dame basketball. I believe that I speak for the entire St. Mary's student body when I say that I am disappointed, I am angry, I am disgruntled with the treatment we have received! St. Mary's is proud to be a part of the Notre Dame -St. Mary's community. Give us a chance to show our pride, our support, and our patriotism for Notre Dame! Give us more basketball tickets! 
a.rtuyRuddy 


Tuesday, November 15, 1977 
5 


Japanese firms compete for videotape market 
WASHINGTON [AP]-Like a pair The recorders are a high-priced companies it controls-Panasonic, Sony now also offers two hours of Meanwhile, the battle goes on in of Sumo wrestlers, two Japanese item, with listed prices ranging JVC Japan Victor Company and, in recording time and Matsushita is department stores across the na­industrial giants have squared off from $1,000 to $1,300 plus acces­a slightly different version, Quasar. coming out with a four-hour ver-tion. 
in what may become the biggest sories. The tapes aren't cheap "We're very optimistic about
Its videotape version also is sion. .
battle of the electronics industry either at $15 to $20 each. And these items, not only now but next
marketed here by RCA, Magnavox, And the struggle is continuing
since the development of color extras such as a black-and-white year and in the future," said the
Sylvania and Curtis Mathes. with Sony turning to an automatic
television. camera can add as much as $500 to head buyer for a major Washington 
tape changer to allow use of two
Most major American manufac­In addition to the Sony, Matsu­
the cost. area department store chain.
two-hour tapes for a four-hour 
turers already have lined up in the The tapes can be reused, al­shita and Quasar machines, Sanyo And the sales manager for a
total. There also are reports that 
corner of their favorite, angling for though dealers report that many is reportedly working on a fourth Sony will add a three-hour tape, large electronic appliance store authority to distribute the Japanese people are buying many tapes in type of its own. meaning a total of six hours of commented "we can't get enough systems under U.S. brand names. order to save some of their favorite -With various firms struggling to recording with the changer. of them." 
At the center of the dispute are shows. develop public awareness and ac­And finally, there's the copyright Buyers of the recorders were 
different versions of the home While various firms have experi­ceptance of videotape recorders in problem. The material shown on characterized by a departmentvideotape recorder-the devices 
mented in the field, the sets general, and their brands in partic­television is generally the property store executive as generally moder­which allow televison viewers to appearing in volume on pre­ular, recording time has become of the networks or commercial ate to high income persons who are watch one program while recording 
Christmas U.S. store shelves are the battleground. production companies, and it may careful with their money and know another for future viewing. 
virtually all made by two Japanese Betamax opened the market last take a court battle to decide what they want, These versions are incompatible­electronic giants-Sony and Matsu­year with one-hour tapes, and whether the recorders amount to But an appliance salesman said
they function in a slightly different shita. 
Matsushita responded with a two­copyright infringement, or steal­all sorts of people have shown anfashion and tapes from one cannot Fortune magazine has likened 
hour version. ing, of this property. interest in the sets.
be used on the other. Thus, the the possible battle between the two winner of the contest could reap videotape systems to the "costlymillions, not only in sales of the pitched battles between William original machines, but in years of Paley of CBS and the late David 
Candles blamed for Manila fire
continuing sales of tape cartridges­Sarnoff of RCA over which phono­both those prerecorded with graph record, the 33 113 or the 45, · MANILA, Pbilllplnes [AP]-Can­Agudon said the fire began in The hotel owner said there were
movies or other events and those would dominate the multibillion­
dles lit during a power outage from room 5010, a fifth floor room probably more than 188 personsleft blank for home recording. dollar record business and later a typhoon may have caused the fire ocupied by a German couple. registered in the hotel, a four
The industry is hoping that the which color TV system would that swept through the Hotel But a friend of the couple Rolf building complex. The front of the recorders will live up to their become standard for the U.S." 
Eilipinas in downtown Manila early Stcokhorst, 42, of Frankfurt, said complex is seven stories high andpromise as the hottest thing since Sony's Bctamax is perhaps the yesterday, killing at least 42 per­the fire began in an adjacent room. rear buildings surrounding a court­color television sales exploded in best known of the brands because sons, including one American, "I suddenly heard explosions," yard are nine stories high. He said 
the early 1960's. of its extensive advertising cam­authorities said. Stockhorst said. "I rushed out of all but about 100 of the rooms wereAccording to Audio Video Inter­paign. That company's product Fire Marshall Francisco Agudon the door and I saw two men-one gutted.
national magazine, sales of the also is being marketed under predicted a toll of at least 50 dead. looked like a policeman and the He said all but a few of the guests units are expected to total 250,000 various other names by Zenith, He said firemen has seen more other a roomboy-rushing out .of were foreigners.
this year and a half-million in 1978. Sears, Sanyo and Toshiba. 
bodies in the burned-out shell as room 5012 carrying a fire extin­Typhoon Kim hit the Luzon coast An average growth rate of SO Matsushita sells its machines in they battled the fire. guisher and a partly burnt-out near the port of Infanta, then 
percent is predicted in 1978 and the United States under three 
Two persons plunged to their room curtain.'' veered north away from Manila.
1980. 
deaths from windows and a Red Stockhorst said other members Its strongest winds dropped from Cross spokesman said other dead of the German group-six shoe 128 mph to 103 mph. had suffered massive bone frac­consultants-told him an ·unidenti­tures, indicating they had jumped. . fied American had saved their 
Pilgrim of Fatima
Survivors said hotel guests pan­lives.

NIPSCO asked to clean up 
icked, stumbling and falling as they "The American knocked on the fled down fire escapes. door and shouted 'Get out, get devotions planned HAMMOND, Ind. [AP]-North­Interior· Department lawyers were 
"There was a brownout before out!" he said. "They've never 
ern Indiana Public Service Co. "a little dubious about the lan­by FloreaceuDe Strlgle
the fire, so some of our guests seen the American again. He must(NIPSCO) has been asked to guage, and asked them to tighten it 
lighted candles in their rooms," be alive. If we see him again
"tighten up" language of an up." The Pilgrim of Fatima, a statue
said Jose {:ovarrabias, the hotel we'll kiss him and offer him a
anti-pollution plan submitted to the Last June the federal agency told blessed by the pope and designated· 
ownner. "The fire could have been round of brandy."
U.S. Interior Department. NIPSCO officials water from the to carry the message of Fatima
started by candles, but we are not Armando Aquino, a 37-year-old
The plan outlines measures the settling pond was seeping throught throughout the world to those who
sure." room attendant, said the fire began 
utility will take to prevent seepage through the ground into the adja­do not have the opportunity to visit
The search for more bodies in the on the fifth floor, quickly engulfed 
of waste water into the Indiana cent lakeshore. Federal officials the shrine itself, will be displayed
ruins of the hotel was halted as the top floors and then spread to
Dunes National Lakeshores from a said one million gallons a day were in Sacred Heart Church this Thurs­
dusk. the floors below.
NIPSCO settling pond. leaking and, a rate considered day night. 
The Red Cross said the dead It was not certain how many
A spokesman for the Interior harmful to the oark's natural bogs. A prayer service including rosa­
American was Kenneth Charles persons were in the 376 room hotel
Department notifi~d NI~SCO y~s­ry, benediction and consecration to 
NIPSCO operates a coal-fired Eccleston of Riverdale, Md. when the fire broke out.
terday it is not quite satisfied Wi!h Mary will open the devotion at 7
electric powerplant near the nation­
the outline. The spokesman said p.m. The statue will then remain
al lakeshore. As a measure to 

need resumes in a hurry? 

(0 . ~ 
\ tJ '~ 
•

insly·pr•nls• 
the wiz of the printint biz! 
rag bond 2 5 -8 1/2 X 1 1 $2.55 
open for private prayer until the
prevent air pollution, fly ash is closing mass at 11:00 p.m. 
removed from the plant's smoke­The Pilgrim statue of Our Lady of stack gases and flushed into a 



Dolan appointed to center 
Fatima is a carved likeness of Mary settling pond. 
Dr. Jay P. Dolan, associate as she appeared in 1917 to the
items of historical value. 
How NIPSCO answers the Interi­
professor of history at Notre Dame, children at Fatima. This represen­
Dolan said the Center hopes toor Department's latest complaint 
has been appointed director of the tation was given to the United
provide scholarly leadership in an
could determine whether it can University's new Center for the States as its "National Pilgrim" in
area of American history which has 
achieve a negotiated settlement of Study of American Catholicism. 1967, the Golden Jubilee Year of
drawn increased interest in recentthe long-running dispute. The 
The idea of the Center grew out Fatima, and was blessed by the
years, often from faculty members
Interior Department, if not satis­Bishop of Fatima. 
of a conference on ''the Reinterpre­at distinguished independent asfied, could carry out its threat to 
tation of American Catholic His­Many strange events have been
well as state-supported universi­
take the utility to court. reported along the path of this
tory'' held under Dolan's direction ties. ''American Catholic history is 
When the federal agency first at Notre Dame four years ago and statue and similar pilgrim images. 
a field of specialization for which
noted the seepage, it demanded a is grounded in a long tradition of Notre Dame is admirably suited by In the United States, a woman born plan within 60 days for curbing the Catholic historiography at Notre blind once was reported to have
religious tradition and intellectual 
problem. Dame and supported by University experience," Dolan commented. had instantaneous restoration fo 
NIPSCO balked at first, but after archives described by many as the her sight. When the Pilgrim was in 
The University's recently an­
Interior threatened to sue, the finest single collection of materials Rome, Pius XII saw the Miracle of. 
nounced $130 million development
company submitted a plan last for American Catholic history in the the Sun, a re-enactment of the 
program, "The Campaign for vision of color and fire which· took
nation. The work of the Center Notre Dame," is seeking $2.2
embraces the four areas of instruc­place at Fatima in1917. 
million in endowment fupds to
.tion, research, publication, and For more information on the visit 
underwrite the initial stages of the of-the statue, contact Fr.
collection of materials. 
Dolan, who holds his doctorate in .center. O'Connor, 283,7651. history from the University of Chicago, joined the Notre Dame faculty in 1971. His book, "The Immigrant Church: New York's Irish and German Catholics, 1815­1865," published in 1975 by The Johns Hopkins University Press, won the John Gilmary Shea Award of the American Catholic Historical Association. A second work, "Catholic Revivalism: The Ameri­can Experience 1830-1900," was published this year by the Notre Dame Press. 
The Center currently publishes a newsletter on Americana; cospon­sors a series of Notre Dame Press publications under the title, "Notre Dame Studies in American Catholi­cism," and organiz<:l' American Catholic Studies Seminars, distri­
. buting presentations in working paper format. The Center will also be engaged in expanding the University's collection of Catholic newspapers, parish histories, pop­ular devotional material and other 


r 
a a 4 a 
the observer Tuesday, November 15, 1977
6 

~. 



' I Carter endorses revised jobs bill 
WASHINGTON [AP) -President Carter endorsed a watered-down jobs bill yesterday that would set a 4 percent unemployment rate as the goal for 1983 without commit­ting him to set up new programs to reach the target. 
House and Senate backers of the bill applauded the president's en­dorsement and predicted favorable action in Congress early next year. 
The measure, worked out in months of talks between White House aides and congressional sponsors, would require the presi­dent to submit annual economic reports to Congress setting out specific goals for unemployment, production, income and produc­tivity. 
However, unlike the original bill, 

Peace talks hopeful 
to quell Mid-east unrest 
[Continued from page 3) proposal by Said Kamal, the de­puty chief of the Palestinian Liber­Jfilln Organization's political de­partment for gaining an invitation for the PLO to Geneva. 
Israel has agreed with the United States that Palestinians should be included in an all-Arab delegation at the opening of the peace talks. lsrale has said it would not "check their credentials" but has ruled out an invitation to the PLO. 

Administration officials hope the dispute can be resolved through Sadat's initiative to sidestep re­maining procedural problems and proceed quickly to Geneva. But Syria, the PLO's champion in Arab councils, insists that the PLO be invited to Geneva "on an equal footing" with the other parties. If the meeting in Tunis and the Sadat-Assad talks fail to overcome this obstacle officials here said, Vance may meet in a neutral Euro­pean city with Arab and Israeli ministers. He plans to attend sessions of the North Atlantic treaty organization in Brussels Dec. 7-9 and is also considering a side trip to Budapest to return the Crown of St. Stephen to Hungary. 
A trip to the Middle East would 
Right to to Life plans mass 
ND-SMC Right to Life invites all the service organizations at Notre Dame and St. Mary's to cosponsor a mas!> in thanksgiving for life next Monday. 
Interested organizations are asked to contact John Ryan, at 8701 or Rick LaSalvia at 2827. St. Mary's organizations are asked to .~ontact Jeannie Ritter at 4945. 


Darby's Place opens doors on Turkey Day 

For the fourth consecutive year, Darby's Place will open its doors on Thanksgiving Day. Although plans for the event, which include turkey, munchies and refreshments, have not been finalized, donations are now being accepted to defray the cost of the feast, according to Fr . . Robert Griffin, the University Chaplain and co-proprietor of Darby's. 
Griffin did reveal that the movie "Oliver" will be shown and that plans for a second feature fllm are in the making. 
Further details on Thanksgiving at Darby's will be published in a future Observer. 

Pitt bus sign-ups 
Signups for the Pitt Club bus for Thanksgiving break will be held tomorrow at 7 p.m. in LaFortune amphitheater. 
The buses will leave Wednesday Nov. 23 at 2 p.m. from the Center for Continuing Education at Notre Dame and from Holy Cross Hall at St. Mary's. They will leave Pittsburgh Sunday Nov. 27 at 1 
p.m. from the Pittsburgh Grey­hound station. 
it recommends -rather than re­quires · that specific government jobs programs be set up to reach the goals if it appears that the targets will not be reached without help. 
And while recommending that the president consider certain programs to cut unemployment, the bill includes a strong anti-infla­tion statement declaring that stable prices should not be sacrificed for the goal ofreduced unemployment. 
The bill "provides substantial flexibility to both the Congress and the president to adapt to changing circumstances and doesn't put anybody in a straight jacket," said one administrative official. 
"The bill does not authorize any new programs or add any money to 
depend on a collapse of all hopes· for a conference by Christmas and on a judgement that Vance could find a new basis for compromise. 
the budget,'' he added. He said ·the 
measure "regularizes and im­
proves the process by which the 
administration and Carter set (:cou­
omic goals ... " 
The bill sets the unemployment goal for 1983 at four percent of the entire work force and three percent for adults, but also allows the president to revise the goal in 1981. Unemployment has been running at about 7 percent of the e:ntire work force, but is much hi.gher among youths, especially young black workers. 
These officials said the unem­ployment goals were desirable, but one added "We're realistic enough to say it's not going to be easy to achieve.'' 
Carter said as much in a st~Lte­ment endorsing the bill, declaring, "This is an ambitious objective and one that may prove very difficult to achieve, but setting our sights high challenges us to do our best. " 
Carter said last year during the presidential campaign that he sup­ported the bill's concept but his comments about the bill itself vv•~re frequently vague. He was on reeord as supporting an earlier version of by paragraph, .. officials said. the bill. The sponsors of the original 
The compromise he endorsed legislation, Sen. Hubert H. yesterday was the result of talks Humphrey (D-Minn.) and Rep .. that began in June between his Augustus Hawkins (D-Calif.), ap­aides and congressional backers plauded Carter's endorsement in a who sometimes negotiated "sen­joint statement predicting congres­tence by sentence and paragraph sional action on the bill next year. 
Buy all your Tennis needs at Discount Prices lowest prices on racketball, handball, and squash needs 

RAQUETBALL RAQUE11 SALE! 

321 S. Notre Dame Mon-Fri 9-6 Sat. 9-4
233-8712 


Ifyou can't fly Continental, 
you may have to stay after schOol. 

It doesn't take a course in economies to know that Continental is the way to go for the holidays. Because we're pioneers in the area of discount fares. 
Like our Night Coach prices~ Fly at. night and save a full 20% off the cost of a regular Day Coach ticket. 
Or, if you're off to Los Angeles, you'll save a bundle with our Super Coach fare-­just S99 one way-and no restrictions! 
And only Continental has Economy Fares everywhere we fly-save 10% just by skipping a meal. 
No matter where you fly in Continental's USA-north, south, east or west-we've got a great schedule and a discount fare to fit your budget. And you'IJ still get the kind of service Continental is famous for. 
For more information about our money­
saving discount fares, call your campus rep, 
travel agent, or Continental at 686-6500, else· 
where in lllinois Toll Free at (80()) 972-7896. 
And remember, if you can't fly Continental, 
try to have a nice trip anyway. 
•Night Coach Faresgoodonlyon flights designated by Continental leaving between 9:00PM and 7:00AM. 
We really move our tail for you. 
CONTINENTAL AIRLINES 
The Proud Bird with the Golden Tail. 

..,.....---...... '' -~--:-~----------___,.--~--........ 
Bowl bids announced this Saturday 
--~-----~~~---~~ ,---~ 
Tuesday, November 15, 1977 the observer 7 
AP-The warm-ups are over and • a problable match-up wtth No. 1 it's time for college football's ranked Texas. second season. The top-rated Longhorns wal-
The second season is not to be loped Texas Christian 44-14 but confused with the third season, must still play Baylor and 11th alias the post season bowl games. ranked Texas A&M in the South-The second season is that final step west Conference show-down. to one of those holiday excursions, the Aggies dropped a 26-20 of which there are now 13. squeaker to eighth ranked Arkan-
The invitations g_o out n~xt _ sas. a t~iumph that left the _Or~~ge Saturday and that stgh of rehef Bowl wtth the problem of tnvtting emanating fromDallascomes to you Arkansas or the Nov. 26 Penn courtesy of the Cotton Bowl, which State-Pitt winner to face the Big sweated out fifth ran;.ed Notre Eight champ. Arkansas still must Dame's 21-17 come-from-behind face Southern Methodist and Texas victory over No. IS Clemson and Tech. 
The host spot in the Bowl will be up for grabs Nov. 25 w_hen third ranked Oklahoma entertatns No. 12 Nebraska. The Sooners pummeled Colorado 52-14 while Nebraska battered Kansa 52-7. 
Meanwhile, second ranked Ala­bama already assured of the Southeastern Conference crown and a berth i~ the S~gar Bowl, trimmed Miami of Flortda 36-0. 
The Crimson Tide's opponent reportedly will be the loser of next Saturday's annual Big Ten show­down between fourth ranked Ohio State, a 35-7 winner over Indiana, 
and No. 6 Michigan, which swamped Purdue 40-7. 
The Sugar can probably assure itself of a team with a likely higher ranking by going for the Penn State-Pitt vktor. However, the 
Sugar has never had a Big Ten team while Pitt went to New Orleans last season and Penn State the year before. 
Both teams won handily Satur­day. Ninth ranked Penn State clobbered Temple 44-7 while No. 
10 Pitt crushed Army 52-26. Meanwhile, seventh ranked Ken­tucky, on probation and headed 
From out East comes Notre Dame's Newest Irish Tradition ..
---·­

f h h l"d h d d
01

hom~ 0~_/ e ays, s a e Flortda 1 · . . No.B14 ~outhe~n h;~~tforn~a, 1 ~ 
1

Rose owb ea~ et~ f ~~es tn ,
0 

seasons, fw~ out W tsh?'ear l race0 bth ~tn~ ~ R as ::gt~
28 1 8 
·· e. act~~ b s 't~e .,;w hs 
~epresenta~~v~ wt tee~ e~. a: ­tngton, w tc mee s :rs 18~~1 St~~eh 3ext S~turd?8. 18 b t t w tc regon tate u mus also beat Southern Cal on Nov. · 
••••••••• 25 
Fighting Irish ski 
team to meet 
Who is happy about the early snow fall? The fighting Irish ski team! Fund-raising projects are well under way and the Irish are now preparing for an excellent Racing Season. A meeting will be held Nov 15, at 8:00 p.m. in Lafortune (room 1c). Topics to be discussed are programs, practices, time trials, uniforms, equipment and Christmas ski trip plans. All members must be present. Contact 
:• classified ads 
• 
NOTICES 

• 
We need a band' Do you have a band? 

• 
Need to practice some more or would youIike to play for a good cause? The Notre 

• 
Dame.·St. Mary's Council for the Retard­

• 
ed Is looking for a band to play at our e monthly dances. Our November Dance is 

• 
next Wed., Nov. 16th, and the time Is 

7:30 till 10:00 p.m. The Logan kids love 

• 
live music, so if you'd be interested in 

• 
playing for us, please give us a call: 

• 
Jeanne Conboy 284-4391 or Art Koebel • 287-7509. 


Overeaters Anonymous, starting group meetmgs on campus. Call 289-6021. 
EXPERIENCED TYPIST. For more infor­mation, please call 272-2819. 
. 
Interested in updating your understand­ing of the Christian faith and Catholic tradition? Considering the possibility of becoming a Catholic? For more informa­tion, drop by the Campus Ministry offices in the Memorial Library or in Badin Hall, or call 6536 or 3820. 
• Anyone wishing to register to vote in e Indiana's May election should call Moat
.~~~--------------­
• Typing. Reasonable rates. Call 8051.
.-----------------­
• Will do typing, neat accurate. Hours 9-6. • Call 287-5162. 
FOR RENT 

• Apartment: Furnished. 2bedroom-$185. 
• Inquire at Louie's after 6. 
Five room house for rent. Central gas and heating within walking distance. 233­6438.
.-----------------­
•
.
• 
LOST & FOUND 

e Found: Calculator. Before break. Call to 

• 
identify 8557· 


: Lo;:-vV;tchb;;;;;-Nt;;th"Qi~gH;ii 
• 
and Stepan. Call 287-8082. e Lost:2-g~d ring;i;ftinR;i(;gym­

• 
nastlcs room_ one with blue star sapphire 

• 
and the other with Initials: GDM. If 


e ~~~~~~~me~.:______ 
• 
Glasses found with black case at Library 

• 
Circle. To claim call Tom Basile 233-8288. 


•. Los"t:St.Mary';-~ack 1;;ket;lth Bob 
• 
sewn on front. Rob 8464. • ---------------­

• • 

• 
WANTED • 

• 
Needed: Student or GA tickets Air Force. 


Call Jan 4-4184. • -----------------­e TYPIST WANTED: Full-time, to typeset 
Need 2 GA tickets for Air Force game. Call Rich 6657. 
Need 2-3 GA Air Force tix. Call Tim 1036. 
Desperately need ride to Jersey for Thanksgiving. Will share driving and expenses. Call Jack 67116. 
Need 2-4 GA Air Force tickets. Tom 3693. 
Naad 2-4 GA or student Air Force tix. Call 
8051. 

Need 2 GA Air Force tickets. Call Joe 8927 or 8930. 
Senior desperately needs 2GA tickets for Air Force yame. Call 4705 if there is no answer call 4711. 
Need 1 GA Air Force ticket. Call Mary 4786. 
Ride needed over Thanksgiving break to Xenia-Sprinfield-Dayton area of Ohio. Can leave Wednesday. Am willing to share expenses. Call Joe Menino at 7735(6). 
Need ride to Wash. D.C. for 2 for Thanksgiving. Call leave anytime after classes Monday. Call Jim 8906 or Frances 6907. 
Need ride to Philadelphia area for break. Can leave after classes on Monday Nov. 
21. Will share expenses. Denny 8906. 
Needed: 2 GA Air Force tickets. Joan 1280. 
Need 4 GA Air Force tickets, Kathy 4-4964. 
Need one student ticket for Air Force game. Call Suzy 4-5361. 
Need 3 student tickets for Air Force game. Call Kathy 5355. 
2 Student tickets for Air Force. Call 
~~~~5346·-----------­
I need 4 Ga tlx for Air Force. If you can 
~~~~~~~~~~-------­
Riders: Looking for riders on Nov. 23rd, heading south to Atlanta via Louisville, Nashville, Chattanooga. Call Karen or 
~~ 616-~~~2_-__________ 
Need 4 GA Air Force tickets. Call Brian 272-5843. 
Need up to 4GA or student Air Force tlx. Call 8051. 
Need 2 GA Air Force tix. Cindy 8037. 
Need two GA tickets for Air Force. Call Mark 1067. 
Need six Air Force tlx. Beth 272·2340. 
Need ride to Long Island for Thanksgiv-Jng. Will share driving & expenses. Call Sue 8058. 
Help! Need 2, 4, or 6 GA Air Force tix for 
~~~~_:~~~Oaf!~~----­
Help my two little sisters see their first ND football game. Sell me two GA Air Force tickets. Call Dave at 3493 anytime. 
Will trade one season bleacher seat and $$and Coors, (or will buy with no trade) one excellent padded basketball season ticket. Preferably section one. 233-8855. 
Need riders to Florida for Thanksgiving. 
4~. 

Seek ride to Allentown, Pa. or vicinity for Thanksgiving. Kate 7813. 
Ride to Boston for Thanksgiving break. Will share driving and expenses. Call Tony at 1436. 
Air Force tix -student or GA. Will pay$ as opposed to... Call M.P. 6841. 
Need 4 GA Air Force tix. John 232-()550, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. only. Good money. 
Need 5 GA Air Force tix. Please call Debbie, 234-1485. 
Need 2student Air Force tix. Call Debbie 234-1485. 
Need ride to Champaign, Illinois vicinity. Friday Nov. 18. Call1276. 
Desperately need 2 GA Air Force tix. Please call Cindy after 10. 5484. 
Desperately need ride to Long Island for Thanksgiving. Can leave Monday after­noon-will share driving expenses. Moni 4-5380. 
Need 4 GA tickets for Air Force game. Call Anne 4983. 
Need riders to St. Louis for Thanks­giving break. Jim 3104. 
Need 1 GA Air Force ticket. Call Beth 6738. 
Need 1student Air Force ticket. Call Beth 6738. 
Need ride to St. Louis area for Thanks­
~~~~~~~~~~~-----­
Ski salesperson-mechanic to work even­~~~-2~~~~00 _12-20 hrs per week. Call 
Male grad. stud. wants to share apt. with same (spr. sem.) Write Mark Thompson, ~~2~~rchester Ad., Louisville, Kentucky 
Delivery person for Julio's Pizza. Sat. eves. only. Must have own car. Salary $3 
per hour plus tips. Call 233-2354. 
FOR SALE 

River City Records Is Northam Indiana's largest and most complete record store! loclted Just 3miles north of ND-5MC on 
U.S. 31. River City Records has over 8,1100 records and tapes to choose from. NO and SMC checks ICC8pted. Open until 
10:00 Thursday, Friday, 1111d Saturday; noon to 8:00 Sundays. 
USC-UCLA sportswear for sale. Come ~~~7 ~rowse. 326 Morr. Ask for Kevin. 
'73 Cougar XR-7. Automatic, full power, air. Best offer. Call3479. 
PERSONALS 

Seems as though someone Is having car troubles... 
---------------~­
Saint Mary's students: Seats are .still available on the New York area charter flight; Dec. 22nd and Jan. 16th. Call Mary Laverty 4319. 
If you have any printing, lay out, and-or management experience and would like part-time, on-campus work call Camrus Press 7047, 1-5 Mon-Fir; ask for Bil or John. This is a paid position. 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY DOC. He came in with Haley's Comet. Happy Hour Nite Cooks. 
Sammy Schlong says: I ran away from the paddlefish club. Why don't you? 
HE FOUGHT AT THE ALAMO 
HE TAMED THE WILD WEST 
HE WON WORLD WAR II ALMOST 
SINGLE HANDEDLY 
VOTE JOHN WAYNE SENIOR CLASS 
FELLOW. 
Thanks to Frank Brotschol, Dave WenkeI, John Rydle, Pat Clynes and everyone that showed on Saturday. Love, J. Murph 
Oops! Forgot!! Happy Birthday, Murph.
G 

ND-SMC Junior Class Christmas Formal Dec. 3 You wouldn't want to miss the bliss of "Winter's Kiss." Nov. 16-22 ticket sales start...So hurry and ask the one dear to your heart! Further Info. Call Lynne 4476, Kathy 5111, Marnie 2-6976. 
Holly, Have a nice day!! 
Short mandatory meeting for all Ski Team 
r~~~6~~~~~··a~~~ti~~s~~talr·M~~~ 
4-4365, Maggie 4-4m or Tom 234-0980. 
:~;;-f~;K;~;,---------­
Thank you for walking Mary home after the pep rally on Saturday. It was really
~~of yo~------------­
Jerry, Is racquetball still on?? G 
The disselusive paddlefish swims after 
troop ships. 
Plndora's Boob, 937 South Band. Ave.­down from Corby's Is where you can sell books now and gat credit toward used books next semester. Phona 52342. 
All Observer Staff Members who wish to have their pictures In the Dome be at the Observer Office at 8 p.m. Tuesday Nov. 
15. This Includes you, too, St. Mary's. 
Don Kiely is from the Land of Fruits and • 
Nuts_.-----------e 
I agree. • ----------------e ------------------• If you wish to study a granfalloon, Just • 
remove the s~~f_a~_Y_ba_lloo_n_.___ • 
Cathy Wedelstaedt is Lewis Hall's cutest • baby!!! Congratualtions! Love, Henry, • 
Bowl, DB & WNS • 
Kilgore Trout and Bokonon are In a • Chrono-Synclastlc Infundibulum and • headed this way. Vote Vonnegut. •
. 

Call up John Murphy at 289-8643 and • 
~~~~~~~~~~~~_:____ . 
Blue Moon Worshippers -• You have violated your limits. Prepare to • accept the consequences. •
. 

Who taught Margo how to eat ice cream? • 
Bob &Brian, • We finally figured out what E.S.A.D. • means. PB & MB •
. Candy Carson is coming Wednesday • night. Prepare ND!!! 
. 

Mo: •
Happy 21st birthday! Remember, you only live once, so do it right. You won't • even remember tonight and tomorrow • night. Love, Jeanne •
. Mike, Senior Bar tonight?? • 
G e
. 

M~ e Have the happiest birthday of your life. e This one is very special. Love, Mike • 
P.S. Did you have a nice sleep in the • parking lot? 
. 

MOHO-e Have awonderful 21st, but watch out for • snakes in the grass. Glt • 
More shots and beer tonight, Mo? • 
Remember the $20 isn't all gone yet! •
. 

Murph, e To Mr. Personality, hope your day is filled with friendship and happiness, the : kind that you give to others throughout 
the year. Frank • 
-r----------------• 
'py 'thday Angelo. Kiss goldfish 'ch? • ~~st~~ine~~~~--------• Jay, • 
Thanks bunches. I really appreciate lt. • 
G e 

------------------. 
Felix: You were the starting pitcher • buddy. 'fhe ORB 
------------------. 
Deebles, How was Mad-town?? 
G •e 

Oh, yea, don't forget, CCC Is coming. • -----------------• Paul, Congrats on the big goal! Better • late than never. Sharon and Carol. • 
Dear Ready-to-barf: • 
Buy your Sultey a hydraulic toothpick • Oackhammer?) and let him go to work. • Your problem will be solved tomorrow. • 
1011 Flanner e 

• display advarUslng, Monday and Wad-Need GA or student tlx for Air Force. Call Stereo speakers: JBL-L16 speakers. Nat· Need ride to Cleveland for Thanksgiving. • 
• 
nasday thru Saturday afternoons and-or Ed 3708. ural oak finish. 277-4056. Call Kathy 1264. In case you didn't read last week, 1011 

evenings. Hourly pay. Experience help-----------------------------------------------------Flanner has now started a Dear 1011 • • ful, but not necessary. Apply In parson Help, I need two Air Force tickets, either Camaro -1974. Air conditioning. Red Anyone who feels qualified to fiJI "SAH column. Send your letters to 1011 • 

• 
at: The Penny Savar, 2102 S. Michigan GA or student, please call Pete at 8518 24,000 miles. Showroom condition. 277-of the Week," contact 237, 241, 446 Flanner and they will be answered e e St., South Band, 288-1411. anytime. 4056. Farley. through the personals. •


..-;..-.;;-.-;;..-.-..•-..•••-;..-..-.-•..;-;--;~-;-.-;;-;..•.....-..-.-..••..........; ...-~~··· 
\' ,·, I 

-----...... ...... 
Gold beats Blue in intrasquad game 
8 the observer Tuesday, November 15, 1977 
eight points of the second half to
by Tim Bourret Sports Writer 

take a 51-50 lead with 11:28 
remaining in the 15 minute second 
Are the freshmen that good, or period. The lead changed hands are the returning lettermen that many times in the final ten min-bad? Probably a little of both utes. Bill Laimbeer and Kelly would be a proper observation after Tripucka, led the Gold and Blue, last night's 77-76 Gold victory over respectively down the stretch. the Blue in the annual charity Laimbeer, who has not played basketball game at Notre Dame's competitively since January of Athletic and Convocation Center. 1976, and Tripucka, a much hera!­
The Gold team, comprised of ded freshmen from New Jersey, Rich Branning. Don Williams, Bill each scored six points for their Laimbeer. Dave Batton, Bruce respective teams in the final four Flowers and Bill Hanzlik, took a minutes. But it was Laimbeer who S0-43 lead at halftime. Don scored what proved to be the Williams Jed the group that is deciding points as he took a pass expected to start most of the games from Bruce Flowers and dunked this season with 16 points in the with 25 seconds remaining to give opening period. Gilbert Salinas, the Gold team a 73-74 advantage. who has not received as much Tripucka retaliated with 12 sec-
d t "th 15'" t t b · 

preseason ink as some of his on s o go w1 a . 100 er o rmg freshmen teammates. consistently his team within one. The Blue ~cored from long range and team got the ball back after a Gold l'qualled Williams' total to lead the turnover with seven seconds left, Blue team in the first half. but Tripucka's 20 foot jumper at The Blue squad scored the first the buzzer fell off the iron and the 
Harriers fail to qualify in meet 
by Craig Chval Sports Writer 

Notre Dame's cross-country sea­~on ended prematurely Saturday 11 hen a tenth place finish in the NCAA District IV Championship left the Irish short of their goal of qualifying for the NCAA finals. The top five squads--Wisconsin, which won the meet with 85 points, Michigan. Illinois, Indiana and Cleveland State--advance to the NC'AA Championship at Spokane, WA. on Nov. 21. 
The top finisher for Notre Dame, which totaled 227 points, was junior Steve Welch, who covered the 6-114 mile route on the Univer­sity of Michigan golf course in a 
Ted Robinson 

time of 32:26:2, good for thirty­fourth place. Welch was chased 
home by Dennis VanderKraats and Pat Sullivan, in forty-third and forty-fifth places, respectively. Dan Horgan, Joe Strohman, Charlie Fox and Chuck Aragon rounded out the top seven for the Irish. 
Weich, whose time was less than two minutes off that of individual champ Marc Hunter of Cleveland State. remained positive about the team's showing. "We took a better team to the meet than Notre Dame has taken in several years," reminded Welch. "Compared to our best performance, which was at the Notre Dame Invitational, it wasn't as good, but when you have 
·============================================================================================================= 
Bowl Bids 
===================~==========·=:::=:::========================:====================================:One Man's 
View. 

I'm sure that many Notre Dame suppo.-ters saw visions of Dallas 
slipping away Saturday. If Clemson had held on to their three-quarter 
lead over the weekend. the Irish would probably be facing a Christmas 
vacation at home. 

But, that's all behind us. Notre Dame came back, and the Cotton Bowl 
is anxiously awaiting an Irish-Texas matchup. Only Air force stanrls in 
Notre Dame's way. I had the opportunity to watch the Falcons play 
Boston Colleg\! three weeks ago in Colorado Springs. and Air Force is the 
worst college team I've seen this year. Hello Dallas. 
Baylor is the olht"r obstacle betwe!!n the proposed Cotton Bowl 
matchup. If the Btars should upset Texas Saturday (again highly 
unlikely). then the Irish would probably turn their eyes elsewhere. 
It·~ no secret that the Orange and Sugar Bowls would dearly love to 
have Notre Dame in their January 2 contests. What a change from last 
year! 

The Sugar Bowl has openly stated that they would love to match the 
Irish with Alabama and the Orange Bowl wants an Irish-Oklahoma clash. 
But it's not to be. Not as long as Texas has an undefeated mark. 
So. the Irish are in the driver's seat. There won't be any trips to 
Jacksonville this year. Wherever Notre Dame goes, the game should be' 
for the National Championship. 

Forget the Rose Bowl deciding the top spot, because the Pac-8 
representative will have at least two losses. Either the Sugar or Orange 
Uowl is going to get a team with only one loss (Penn State or Pittsburgh), 
but the Cotton Bowl is the only bowl left with a chance to have an 
undefeated team particpate. And that's where the Irish have to go. 
There's still one catch. Even if Saturday's results bring about the 
expected matchup. Texas still has to beat Texas A&M to clinch the Cotton 
Bowl berth. Any tie in the stan'i'iing would send the Aggies to Dallas. So, 
the dimensions of the game won't be known until after Thanksgiving. 
The next question is, Will the Cotton Bowl be for the National 
Championship? If Texas is undefeated, the answer is yes. It makes no 
difference where the Irish are rated entering the game; if they beat an 
undefeated top-ranked team, they are number one. Before the 1973 Sugar 
Bowl, the Irish were rated fourth while Alabama was number one. 
Of course. ther will be arguments from Norman, Columbus or Ann 
Arbor and Tuscaloosa (depending on the other bowl outcomes), but if the 
Irish should win the proposed Cotton Bowl, you know where the 
MacArthur Bowl is headed. 

Pill Coach Jackie Sherrill is upset becasue he feels his Panthers may be 
excluded from the .major bowls. The Pitt-Penn State game, originally 
scheduled to be played this Saturday, was moved to November 26 to 
accomodate ABC. Sherrill is hoping the Orange Bowl waits until that game 
to make their choice, instead of naming Penn State this Saturday. 
My feeling is they won't wait in the fear that the Sugar Bowl might gam·.:~ and take Penn State if Notre Dame accepts the Cotton Bowl. The Sugar Bowl would probably gamble that the Nittany Lions will beat the Panthers. rather than take the loser of the Ohio STate-Michigan game (a team with two losses). 
As always. November is the most ~njoyable month of college football. It gives all the supposed experts the oppotunity to sit back and figure out what is going on in the bowl situation. 
It gets some coaches upset. Sherrill is upset, but Pitt has failed to beat both of the ranked teams they have played (ND and Florida). But, until the bowls end their allegiances to conference champions, there will never be enough spots for all the Jackie Sherrills. ' · ~ '·' Chuch Aragon just getting over mono, and Dan Horgan with muscle cramps that he's had for about four meets, you can't ,expect to run as well as in your best performance.'' 
In retrospect, the Irish enjoyed a fine season, as Head Coach Joe Piane pointed out. "We beat Purdue, who had beaten us the past two years. and also Mkhigan State, which has always had pretty good luck against us. In the Notre Dame Invitational, we were thir­teenth last year and fourth this 

year ~hich is quite an improve­Bruce Flowers got into c1ction c1gain at the ACC when Gold defeated ment. Blue for Charity. 
Piane also listed a second place effort in the Indiana State Meet. and a 3-1 dual mark record as compared to last year's 1-2 ledger, as highlights of the season. ''All in all." summed up the Irish coach, 
%Observer "the season was a sucess, but not as big a success as we had hoped." 
Notre Dame will have a solid foundation on which to build its 1978 squad, losing only one of its top nine ru_mers to graduation, co-captain Dan Horgan. '"Next 
Sports
year, we should have an excellent team," predicted Piane. Welch was a little more guarded in his enthusiasm, but mentioned some points that bespeak conti-we're going to do a year from had nine runner shifting in and out now," said Welch. "But we're of the top seven. which is always a
nued improvement for Notre 
only losing Dan Horgan out of our good sign."
Dame. ''I'm optimistic for next too nine. and all season long we ••••••••••••••••••••
year, but I don't like to say what . ~ 
I lnterha/1 hoopers
Coach rapp~:!d for comments ! to meet 
sta1iers held on for the one point win. 
Morrissey Hall roommates Sali­nas and Tripucka led the Blue squad with 20 points apieee while Tracy Jackson added a dozen points and Orlando Woolridge scored 10. Woolridge and Salinas each had seven rebounds to pace the Blue squad. The Gold team, who shot 53 percent, but still only won by a point, was led in scoring by Bill Laimbeer who connected from inside and outside on 12 of 18 field goal attempts for 25 points. Cocaptain Don Williams also hit on a dozen baskets in 17 tries for 24 points. Dave Batton and Bruce Flowers, who shot only 40 percent collectively had 10 points apiece for the Gold. 
A better indication of the abili­ties of this year's Irish basketball team will be available after this Friday evening's game with the Russian National team. The game begins at 8:15 at the ACC. 
GREENSBORO* N.C. AP-Notre Dame football Coach Dan Devine's comments about an Atlantic Coast Conference official's performance in the Irish's 21-17 victory at Clemson Saturday should be taken to the ethics committee of the American Football Coaches' Assoc­iation, ACC Commissioner Robert James said Monday. 
"If we don't have assurances that it is before them, we'll take steps to make sure it gets there," James said in a meeting of ACC regional members of Associated Press Sports Editors. 
Devine said the official, W.R. Cummings of Columbia, S.C., was incompetent and a "disgrace to college football." His remarks were promted by two incidents on the field. One was when Clemson tailback Lester Brown was running for the goal line and had Cummings between him and a Notre Dame tackler. The other was a clippitng penalty halfway through an Irish touchdown drive. 
Cummings called the penalty and then handed the Irish a second 15 yard penalty for unsportsman­like conduct when Devine stepped onto the field to call him a disgrace. 
Devine said it was the first time he'd ever been penalized like that in 25 years of coaching. , 
James said, "I can't believe•tli'is will escape Vince Dooley's atten­tion, and he's chairman of the ethic committee." Dooley is head coach 
I 

at Georgia. He noted the coaches·: The_re . will be _an important code of ethics forbids public criti-1 orgamzat10nal meetmg of coaches sism of officials. :or captains for Men's Interhall 
The commissioner added thatI basketball on Thursda~, ~ov. 17, at televised replays of the playsl4:30 in the ACC aud1tormm. All Devine objected to "certainly mini-: teams must attend. T~e $20.~ mized his evaluation of competen-aleague dues must be pa1d by th1s 1 
c " 1 meeting. I y. 
1.·-------------------J. ?• Irish drop to sixth ?• 
AP-Texas, Alabama, Oklahoma . The remaining first place ballot and Ohio State held onto the first went to seventh ranked Kentucky, 
. four spots in The Associated Press which downed Florida 14-7 and college football poll Monday but totaled 549 points. The Wildcats Michigan inched ahead of Notre were seventh last week, too, and Dame into the No. 5 position. again were followed by Arkansas, 
Texas, an easy 44-14 winner over Penn State and Pitt to round out the Texas Christian, received 58 of 61 Top Ten. first place votes and 1 ,214 of a Arkansas received 529 points for possible 1,220 points from a nation-beating Texas A&M 26-20, Penn wide panel of sports writers and State whipped Temple 44-7 and broadcasters. received 458 points and Pitt piled 
Alabama, which defeated Miami up 377 points for a 52-26 rout of of Florida 36-0, received one first Army. place ballot and 983 points while The Second Ten consists of Oklahoma also received one first Nebraska, Arizona, Florida State, place vote and 962 points following Texas A&M, Clemson, Texas Tech, a 52-14 rout of Colorado. Ohio Brigham Young, North Carolina, State, a 35-7 victor over Indiana, Washington and UCLA. received 819 points. Southern Cal dropped out by 
Notre Dame and Michigan tra-losing to Washington 28-10, a ded places. Michigan, sixth a week victory which thrust the Huskies ago, crushed Purdue 40-7 and into the Top Twenty for the first polled 655 points while Notre Dame time all season. UCLA returned to had to rally in the final period for a the ratings after a seven· week 21-17 triumph over Clemson and absence with a 48-18 decision over slipped from fifth to sixth with 639 Oregon State. 
'------­



