

..~· 
<
2.. 
~ 
'Z 
0 
1111 

-1 
::r 

m 
~ 
c: 
=. a. ~ 
JERUSALEM [AP] -In an act solemnly in Arabic from his text: water and fruit juice and Begin journey to Jerusalem. It was the 
"'~
unthinkable less than two weeks "When the bells of peace ring, congratulated Sadat on becoming a culmination of a dramatic series fo ., ago, Egyptian President Anwar there will be no hands to beat the grandfather Sunday for the first exchanges between Sadat and Be­< :I Sadat stood in the parliament of drums of war. Even if they existed. time, Partir said. gin that began only 11 days before oa Israel yesterday and declared: they would be soundless." Sadat's Moslem religion forbids and caught most world leaders by :I 
sa
"We accept to live ·with you in a He insi·sted in his 55-minute alcohol. surprise. ., lasting and just peace." a.
speech that Israel must withdraw The Egyptian· president plans to Israel greeted Sadat as as hero, ~ The declaration broadcast a­from Jerusalem and other lands visit the Knesset again this morn­turning out the entire cabinet to Ill 
3
round the globe was the closest any occupied in 1967 and that uprooted ing to meet legislators representing greet him at the airport Saturday Arab leader has come to recog­Palestinians must receive a home­Israel's diverse political parties. and decorating Jerusalem with Ill ~ nizing Israel as an independent land. Sadat and Begin will hold a joint thousands of Israeli and Egyptain :I a. nation in 30 years of intermitttent Begin. following Sadat to the news conference in Jerusalem be­flags. wars. rostrum of the Knes~et. hailed the fore Sadat flies home this after­After worshipping at the AlAqsa 
Later, after a working dinner and Egyptian president for his "cour­noon. mosque, visiting a Christian church Ill 3 private meeting, Israeli Prime Min­age of heart" in coming to Israel Begin, in his -address to Knesset, and touring the Yad Vashem '< ., ister Menahem Begin told re­and invited other Arabs to follow conspicuously avoided mention of monument to Jewish victims of the 
"' 
porters, "We advanced the cause his path. Begin said he personally Palestinians and, referring to oc­Nazi holocaust, Sadat arrived at the 
of peace. We also advanced was prepared to go to the capitals cupied territories, said: "We did Knesset hall accompanied by Is­
relations between our two coun­of his Arab neighbors. not take any strange lands. We raeli President Ephraim Katzir and 
tries. But I can't say we solved all He called on Arab leaders to only returned to our own land." Knesset speaker Yitzhak Shamir. 
our problems." open peace negotiations and de­The immense significance of the Military trumpeters sounded a 
Sadat will return to Cairo "a clared: "Everything must be day was not it its speeches, but in fanfare and the members and satisfied man," Begin predicted. negotiated and can be negotiated.'' the symbolism. Never before had visitors rose to their feet and "I'm happy about that." The prime minister gave few an Arab leader journeyed to Israel, applauded. Then for the next 55 
Sadat's mission captured the details of his evening talks with let alone stood before its par­minutes the rabbis in skullcaps. imagination of millions, but infur­Sadat. liament to say: Arabs in flowing headcloths, army 
~ 
iated Palestinian and other Arab Dan Pattir, a Begin aide, said the "I wish to tell you today and I generals who had battled Egypt, 0 
militants to the point of calling for working dinner was "very cordial, proclaim to the whole world: We current and former government :I 
a.. 
his assassination as a traiter. informal. .. not in the framework of accept to live with you in a lasting leaders, diplomats, and journalists 
~ 
Greeted at the Knesset by a negotiations." The two leaders and just peace.'' sat in silence, listening through fanfare of trumpets, Sadat read toasted each other with mineral In Washington, President Jimmy earphones. z 
Carter prayed for the success of the "You would like to live with us in ~ 
Sadat-Begin meeting and said the this region of the world, and I tell 3 
Egyptian's mission to Israel you in all honesty that we welcome ID Cl"
'Perverted' Farley intruder ...

"might very well break down the you among us with all the security ....,
...
barrier to peace." and peace," Sadat said. 
The internationally broadcast of­His message, he said, "con­
fer of peace before the Knesset stitutes an important juncture in 
by Peggy McGuire room who didn't belong there... 
Staff Reporter At that point, Lopez yelled to 
roommate Tracy Kee who was 
Farley Hall resident Vicki Lopez asleep in the top bunk. The man 
reported that a "perverted" man left the room when she screamed. 
entered her unlocked fourth floor slamming the door behind him. 
room and awoke her early Saturday "I saw him leave, but it was dark 
morning. so I never got a good look at him," 
Lopez, who was unable to ade­Lopez said. "I only know that he 
quately describe the intruder, said was wearing a leather or vinyl 
that she contacted Notre Dame jacket with a scarf around his 
Security shortly after the man had neck." 
left but that they were unable to Kee said, ''At first I thought that 
find any sign of him. Security Vicki was dreaming. When I 
refused to comment on the inci­realized that someone really had 
dent. been in the room, I made her lock 
In reference to the recent rape on the door." · Lopez then phoned 
the Notre Dame-St. Mary's road, security who notified Betty 
James Roemer, dean of students, Toombs, Farley Hall security 
said, "We were unable to get a guard. 
good description of the intruder. According to Kee, Security was 
Even though it just generally fits unable to notify Toombs immedi­
the description of the rapist, there ately after receiving Lopez's call 
is not enough to indicate a direct because the guard was in the 
tie-in." basement finishing her periodic 
"We have no idea how he got round through the dorm. Toombs into the dorm, but he did seem to received the alert when she know exactly where the bed was," returned to her station on the first Roemer said. Curtains hide floor and went at once to Lopez's Lopez's bunk bed which is situated room to check the report. in a small alcove. Sr. Jean Lenz, Farley Hall rec­
Lopez, who had been sleeping on tress, said, "I was extremely 
the bottom bunk, claimed that she satisfied with the way that Betty 
woke up around 4:30 a.m., when handled things. She checked the 
she "felt a hand massaging her leg dorm very thoroughly and didn't 
underneath the blankets of the find anyone. She couldn't have 
bed." She said that she was done more than that." 
incoherent fr~~ .sleep but soort · Kee· noted th~t · Tbombs has· 

eludes Security search 
..
·realized that "Someone was in th'e 
[Continuedonpage~ ·L---------------------------------~--~----------------------------------~ 


6 the.oburver" Monday, November 21, 19n -
Leader's slides highlight professors' night 
by Ann Gales Senior Staff Reporter 
A lecture and slide presentation on the treasures of King Tut's tomb given by Robert Leader, professor of art, highlighted the First Annual Farley Professors' Night held last evening in Farley Hall. 
Debbie Bieber, academic com­missioner of Farley Hall and organ­izer of Professors' Night, explained that the event was intended to "get the professors into the hall and give them a chance to talk with students outside of the classroom.'' 

"Hall fellows and other profes­sors were specially invited, but all were welcome," she explained. Approximately 25 professors, many of whom brought their families, attended the open house and lecture. 
Leader addressed an audience of approximately 100 students and professors, emphasizing in his presentation the importance of the discovery of Tut's !tomb. "The great significance of the tomb," Leader pointed out, "is that it is the only tomb that has ever been found with the burial chamber still sealed." 
The tomb, which was excvated in the 1920's by Howard Carter and Lord Carnavon of England, is located on the west bmnk of the Nile 
Intruder worries residents 

Door-locking urge~d in Farlley 
[Continued from page 1· Lenz said, "I think we should promised to leave the lights on in seriously consider deactivating the the hallway leading to their room. detex machine on the north "Our room is located at the end of a entrance. It is the only door which small corridor. Generally, they is not visible from the security turn the lights out after parietals, guard's chair. If we turned the 
and it is very dark," Kee said. · detex machine off," she added, 
Commission offers to hang your posters 
by Bill Delauey 
The Student Union Services Commission will post advertise­ments and posters for campus clubs and organizations at the rate of 10 cents per poster, according to the commissions new distribution guidelines. The service, which is offered for both Notre Dame and St. Mary's will continue to be free for organizations within Student Government. 
"Basically, we offer the service for Student Government organiza­tions," said Gary Luchini, Service Commission advertising director. "This doesn't include clubs and organizations that receive Student Union funds but are not part of Student Government. They have to pay for the service," he added. 
The new guidelines specify that anyone who wishes to take advan-
Madrigal Dinners feature comic opera 
The St. Mary's Music Depart­ment will present its annual Madri­gal Dinners in the North Lounge of Regina Hall the evenings of December 2 through December 5. Tickets may be obtained by calling Mary Gerber. director of special events and programming at 4-5787. 
Recreating a Renaissance atmos­phere, the evening will feature entertainment be wandering min­strels, medieval dancers, and Instrumentalists followed by a fes­tive dinner, which will include wassail and other medieval dishes. 
The Madrigal Singers will per­form in a short concert after the dinner, followed by the St. Mary's Opera Workshop. which will pre­sent a short comic opera. 

tage of the service must sign up on the calender outside the Commis­sion's office on the second floor of LaFortune Student Center. They must also notify Luchini by tele­phone at 8774 or leave a note in his mailbox in the Services Commssion office. 
This should be done 48 hours 
before the posters are delivered for 
distribution. Weekends do not 
count as part of the 48 hour period. 
The posters will usually be posted within 24 hours after the Service Commission receives them. 
"Posters are only taken over to St. Mary's on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays, "Luchini said. 
The Services Commission is a branch of Student Government, Luchini explained. "Its function is just what its name implies," he said, "to provide services for students, such as summer storage, refrigerator rental, the freshman register, a plant sale, a record sale later in the semester, plus this poster service." 
"no one could get in through that 
door, unless someone from the 
inside let them in." 

Lenz has posted a sign urging 
residents to lock their doors and to 
be more careful. "We should be 
more cautious of strangers in the 
hall and not hesitate to question 
them to fmd out if they really 
belong here," the rectress com­
mented. 

Kathy McElroy, tho~ fourth floor 
RA in Farley, said, "The main 
thing is that everyone should lock 
their doors at night. It's a pretty 
easy precaution to take." 
"The problem is that there is a false sense of security in living in the dorm," McElroy noted, "and we really have to urge the people to lock their doors." 
"In my three other years here. I've never locked my door at night," Lopez stated, ·"but you can be sure I will after this." 
Karen Yaeger, another Farley resident, said, "I ente1red the dorm around 3 a.m. and noticed a guy outside. I remeber thinking how strange it was because' he was just standing there. gazing into the bushes.'' 
Yaeger said that the man. a Caucasian with wavy. dark hair. "was wearin navy sweat pants with white stripes down the sides on either leg." 
"He also had on a short dark jacket that didn't go with the outtit at all,'' she added. ··He just didn't look like he belonged at Notre Dame." 
I·-------------------------,
Speech and Dramer I Department
I 

I is still seeking I 
I 

ORAL INTERPRETERS
I 
I 
I ORATORS. 

I I EXTEMPORANEOUS SPEAKERS I for Intercollegiate Competition 
I
I I Meeting: Monday, November21, 7:30p.m. Rm. 2D, La Fortune Student Center ,,.___••<..!..f,.!.,,.o!!.<!.~.!'!!<!.~.!:Lcall2~;!lill----· 
.
. ~ 

TEACH A Free Uniuersit~ Courseii 
Would YOU like to tea1ch !JOUr fauorite hobb!:f, interest, etc. this Spring? 
If so 

Giue us a call at 115-8 TODAY Deadline Nov .23 · 

in the "Valley of the Kings." It 
was built some 3500 years ago for 
Tutankhamun, a minor 18th Dyn­
asty king who was only 18 or 19 
years old at the time of his death. 
Approximately 5000 items were found in the tomb, according to Leader. Each item was carefully catalogued and diagrammed by Carer and Carnavon. About one­third of the items are included in the "Traveling show" which has attracted this past year "literally millions of Americans who have stood in line hour after hour to see the collection." 
Leader stated that the intrinsic value of the gold items found in the tomb was estimated at $25 million 15 years ago. 
"We have an old saying that you can't take it with you," Leader commented. "The Egyptians. however, did take it with them. I don't know how far they got with it. but they at least took off with it. .. 
According to Leader, the fact that Tutankhamun was onlv a minor king is important to reallhe. "If they built tombs like that for a boy king who was a nobody. can you imagine what a burial must have been like for a real king?" he aksed the audience. 
Leader discounted the widely 

publicized "curse of the pharoahs, 
"saying that the argument for such 
a phenomena is "rather flimsy at 
best." 

''The press claimed that every­body who was present at the· opening of the tomb died shortly afterwards," Leader stated. "This is true, but the press failed to point out the circumstances under which they died." Most of the people present at the tomb died in their: 70's or 80's, Leader said. "One gentleman was shot by his wife' when she found him in bed with' another woman. Whether or not' that has anything to do with the curse of the pharoahs, I don't know." 
· Leader also remarked that one could easily be misled into thinking that the Egyptians were a morbid people. because of all the pyramids and tombs that are associated with Ancient Egypt. In actuality. how­ever, the Egyptians were "Not always thinking about the under­taker." Only funerary things haw remained of their civilization. Leader explained. because the~ were the only things made of permanent materials. "The Egypt· ians were in fact a happy people. a~ evidtnced by the tact that they mad good beer." 
...-------------------------~-·· 
STUDENT UNION SOCIAL COMMISSION INVITES YOU TO 
Do ....... 
CHEECH & CHONG 
With special guests "The Klee Bros." SATURDAY DECEMBER 3rd, 8 pm STEPAN CENTER Tickets $3.75 at Ticket Office and Rive~ Records

L -----------·----------~-·-·... 
Chapter 3: The Disadvantages of "Name-Brand" Diamonds'' 
As soon to be newlyweds, you have probably anticipated the ''ini­purchase" expenses you are to incure. And as an tened consumer, you're cer­aware that nothing is more 
than budget items. 
face it. The furniture, silverware you buy at the of a marriage are expected to long after the honeymoon has into semester exams and 
part-time jobs. 
That's why so many of today's newly-married couples stress quali-lre~tle<:ticon 
ty in their purchasing. And that's also why many advertisers (such as myself) are courting your buying power. If you doubt this, I invite you to look at any "new bride" typemagazine on the newstands. The emphasis on "name brand" quality is truly staggering. 
Now, the question remains: does "name brand" have any effect on the quality of your engagement diamond? (Note: They're also pro­moted in those same publications.) 
At the risk of appearing blunt, my answer would be an unqualifi­ed No. 
The reas01~? Simply that dia­monds are one of a kind creations 
nature, and are not well suited to mass merchandising techniques. Now, you may very well get a good quality stone from a "name brand" manufacturer. But the fact that it comes with a standardized !able does not necessarily make it good. 
2: you're also paying for a lot of expensive advertising for that brand name, which in turn turn costs yC>u a darn sight more than my little column right here.) 
One complaint I've often heard from young brides concerns the "sameness" of nationally known 
In fact, one


Next week, for those with a flair 
· for the scientific, a look inside (yes, inside literally) your diamond. 
This is a paid advertisement 

Monday, November 21, 1977 the .L. ·wttr 
7 

Pioneers keep Irish winless 
'%Observer 
[Continued from page 8] forwards ran out of gas. Pen·y the WCHA. Held to only one goal 
Then. at 17:04. Ted Weltzin Stensland. Mark Davidson and Friday, the trio exploded against scored a shorthand goal off a pass Roehl tallied goals in the stanza t(, frustrated Irish goalie Len Moher from Geoff Collier to give Notre make the final score 8-4. In all. for six goals. three by Davidson, Dame a 4-3 lead. Peterson made 44 saves while two by Schnarr and one by Berry. 
But. just when it seemed as if the Bales had 28. Roehl and Pazzelli, skating 
SportsIrish had Bales on the ropes, Saturday night marked the first exclusively as penalty-killers, killed Denver bounced back. Garv Nede­appearance of the season for seven Irish power play opportuni­
lak tallied a power play goai just 22 Denver goalie Ernie Glanville, who ties as Coach Lefty Smith was seconds after Weltzin'-, goal to missed the first three series due to forced to use makeshift units in the send the teams to the locker rooms the death of his father. absence of Fairholm and Nugent. 
USAFA takes final nose dive 
knotted at 4-4. 
The pace slowed down consider­ably in the ~econd period. but Dcm·ct wa~ abk to keep the action in the Notre Uamc zone. AT the 
8:33 mark of the period. frc~hman Brad Purpllr scored off a sctamble in front of Peterson to gi\ c Ocnver the lead at 5-4. 
Notre Uame had an l'\<TIIent opportunit\ to regain the le;td later in the second period ,,·hen penal· tics to l.iont Gih-,on and Cal Sandhcck ga\ e the lri-,h a t\\ o-man advantage for :'4 sc,·mHh. Hut. the heroic;, nt lkn\Tr pcn;tlt\·ktlkr~ Pal/.e\li and ~ ratg Rl'l'l1; ~l'pt the lri~h awa\· tn•m B;lie'>. 
In the thml permd. llctl\l'f.'> depth began tn ..,IHm :~> tht· fn'>h 

'-.,_, NOTICES Everyone can now have therr own souvenetr ol Notre Dame's chamotonsnrp football season Call 8982 nov-. to get outstanding full color action shots at our vtctory over So Cd• Some never bPtore seen tn Spans lliustrated 
THE OBSERVER OFFICES WILL BE CLOSED AT 4 30 pm ON FRIDAYS THROUGHOUT THE WINTER MONTHS 
Interested tn uodattnq vour understand­rng of th€ c•vrst•dl f-,1tth anc ~:?.tr.cltr: tradrt10n? Fo~ morf ,ntormatton a•op Ov the Campus Mintst• v offices ,r, !he Memortal Ltltr.try or'" Ba!ltrt ,..c. II o: Cdli 6536 or 3820 
Anyone wtshtng to v0te tn tndtana's f'hv elections shuulcJ call Mo at 4-400' 
Typtng. Reasonable rates Call 805~ 
Will do ned!. accurdte tv:,,r.~. c,.,, 287 5162 
FOR RENT 

Country room tor rent. Reasonable. spacious, 10 mtnutes dnve from campus Call 27n604, afternoons 
FOR SALE 

Remember the picture at Ted Burgmeter in Sports lllustarted intercepting an errantly thrown So. Cal pass? I was a great shot but I've got abetter one as well as a number of other full color actiOn shots at the USC game. Call 8982 for details 
FOR SALE: Two ovation guitars. [One I Classic ovation with hard shellovation case. Askin9 $225. [one[ Balladeer ovation with case, Barcus Berry pickup and leather starp. Asking $165. Must sell both. Call Gene at 1694. 
RIVER CITY RECORDS is Northern Indiana's largest and most complete record store! Located just 3 miles North o1 ND-SMC on US 31, River City records has over 8,ooo records .and tapes to choose 1rom. NO and SMC checks accepted. Open until 10:00 Thursday, Friday and Saturday; noon to 8:00 Sundays. 
'73 Cougar XR-7 Automatic, Futl power. air. Best offer call 3479. 
Camara -1974. Air conditioning. 24,000 miles. Red. Showrrom cond. 277-4056. 
Stereo speakers -JBL-L16 speakers. Hardly used. 277-4056 (after 6). 
WI-lY PAY MORE???? Flanner Records has all $6.981ist lp's only $4.50. All $7.98 fist lp's only $5.29. Over 400 albums in stock. Phone orders accepted. FLAN­NER RECORDS, 322 Flanner. Phone 2741. Hours: M-Th 4-5, 6:30-8:00. Sunday. 2-3:30. 
For Sale: One pair Yamaha NS-1000 M studio monitors. One month old in original cartons and packing. $850.00. Phone 2741. 
AND FOUND 
FOUND: Gold ring in front of the south fe -call 2722 to identify. 
"I felt as though Glanville deserved a shot to play even though Bales has played well." commented Denver coach Mashall Johnston. "Ernie was our top goalie before the season. so he deserves the chance now that he's ready." 
Gl~nvillc had an easy night in his debut a-. he was onlv forced to make 23 saves. Kevin Hum­phreys got the first Irish goal late inthc second period as he conver­ted a centering feed from Mere­dith. Terry Fairholm had the other lrbh goal late in the third period. 
The stars of Saturday's game were Denver's top line of David­son. Doug Bern and Perrv Schnarr. th~ highesi-scoring line i~ 
LOST: Man's pocketwatch in library auditorium or C1 parking lot or in between. $20 reward. Call Rick 272-5408. 
LOST: White silky shawl at SMC sopho­more formal. Call 4942. 
LOST: Help' Lost my wallet Fri . Nov. 11 between Washington and B-P Halls. If found. you may keep football ticket and money (what little there is) but Please return the wallet' Call Katie, 1332. 
FOUND: pair of bHoc glasses in Wash. Hall. Call Dennis-7909 -. 
LOST: Texas instruments TI-50A calcula­tor in rm. 118 Niewland. Wed , 11-16-77. Please return to Tom. Phone 6713. 
LOST: One parr at glasses on SMC campus. Rounded frames. Please call Mary 5193. 
LOST: Dark green ski parka taken at Stepan center last Saturday during Mid-west Blues Festival If seen or feeling guilty, call John at 6764. Pleas~Y· it's cold outside''' ~ 
WANTED 
Male Grad student want to share apt. with same (spr. sem.). Write: Mark Thompson, 105 Dorchester Rd., Louis­ville Ky .. 40223 
TENNIS PROS AND ASSISTANT PROS­Seasonal and year round clubs: good playing and teaching background. Call (301) 654 3770 or send 2 complete resumes and 2pictures to Col. R. Reade, 
W.T.S.. 8401 Connecticut Avenue, Suite 1011, Chevy Chase. MD, 20015. 
Wanted: 1 stude~t season basketball ticket. Call Dan, 288-8723. 
Need two student basketball tickets (together). Will pay good money. Call 277-3604 ask for Dave. 
Desperately need B-ball tix vs. Mar­quette Feb. 26. Will buy or trade. Please call 3256. 
Need two bleacher seats for basketball. Will pay reasonable price. Call Tim at 3537. 
Need ride to Milwaukee Tuesday night, Nov. 22. Call Barb 4-5245. 
Wanted: Need ride to Columbus for Thanksgiving. Can leave Tuesday after­noon (22nd) or anytime after. Call Tim at 
6867. 
Wanted: Ride to Boston for Thanksgiving braek. Will share driving, expenses. 
1 
Call Tony at 1436. · 
Need ride to St. Louis area for Thanksgiv­ing. Call Peggy 4-4774. 
Need ride to Pittsburgh for Thanksgiving. Call Chris 4-4515. 
NEED: One way ride to Toronto area for break. Gladly share expenses. Call 6962. 
WANTED: Need rider; headec south to Corpus Christi, Texas, on November 21 via Illinois. Missouri and Oklahoma. Call Jay at 1419. 

Moher, despite the eight goal 
[Continued from page 8] Dame. He said: "I think Notre
total by Denver, played his best 
per play. Also, the Falcons were Dame is the mecca of modern 
game of the year, stopping 35. And 
forced to punt on ten occasions college football and if you're going
And the Irish penalty killers, led by 
during the afternoon, while the to close out your coaching career
bMichalek, Humphreys, Collier 
Irish never had to use the services anywhere, this is the place to do
and Weltzin played well both . 
of their punter, Joe Restic. Fur­it." 
nights stopping the Denver power · 
ther, Air Force only crossed the Commenting on the progress of
play. 

midfield stripe twice, both times in his team during the course of the
The Irish did get some good 
the first half. · season, Devine said, ''As this 
news in learning that Don Fairholm 
One bright spot for the Falcons season has gone along this team
will not need surgery on his knee 
was the play of linebacker Tom has made great improvement in
and may be available for this 
Foertsch. The 6-0, 203 pound junior practically every phase of the
weekend's series with Michigan 
from Cincinnati was in on a total of game. Our objective has always
State. Nugent is also listed as 
20 tackles, seven solos and 13 been to finish as high in the
questionable for the weekend. 
assists. national rankings as possible.
The two losses leave the Irish 0-8 
Although he was not pleased That's why we will be in Dallas on 
for the season and 4-18 against the 
with the outcome of the game, Air January 2." 
Pioneers in Denver. Denver is now 
Force coach Ben Martin was glad Notre Dame will close out their 
7-I and in sole possession of first 
that he was able to complete his regular season against the Univer­
place in the WCHA. 
coaching career by facing Notre sity of Miami 
c 
IFlED 
Hail,
ADS 
Who is the pervert who tried to take our 

WANTED: Need ride to Long Island, NY 
ironing board to the formal in the first 

for Thanksgiving braek. Can leave 
place?

anytime. Call Ray at 1436. 
CCC-217 HC B. B. The roses are beautiful 
Two need ndes to Ctnctnnati, Nov. 23. 
The ice cream was (gag!) great Mark. 
Call Steve 1720. 
But who was the clod Happy Birthday! 22 isn't that old. Who put his foot in the cake?? Enjoy it. 
TYPIST WANTED: Fulltime. to typeset display advertising. Monday and Wed­Need ride to Prestonburg, KY, [near W. Two Farley-ites request a ride to Cleve­
nesday through Saturday afternoon 
or Virginia]? Call Auto Driveaway,674-9786 land anytime after 5:00, Tuesday. $$$. 
evemng. Hourly pay. Experience helpful 
Call Maureen, 6797. 

but not necessary. Apply in person at: Sue of Holy Cross The Penny Saver, 2102 S Michigan St. . Last year -?? Drew,South Bend.288-1411. This year -...Your yellow pants. 1 just got to the end and there are no Next year -... I can't wait. personals for you ....so here it is. C'mon 
Southern Turkey: Looking tor riders on ND-SMC....get with it! 
Thanksgiving Eve traveling to Atlanta via TOur Goshen's hottest night spots with a Louisville. Nashville. Chattanooga. Call girl you just can't stop. White corvette Math Uand A-Un Karen or Bill 616-429-3507. optional. Kathy, 4-5428. Happy two years! Gatta watch those 
Mondays though, just can't trust 'em. Je 

Need ride to Milwaukee for Thanksgiv­
2nd Floor Lyons Royal Archway now ne understand it either pas!
ing Jul•e, 5124 Hell-un
accepting applications for section sweet­heart. 11 pm to midnight, Monday PS May the Monady Minstrels remeber 
Help make a South Bend Thanksgiving you today!
through Thursday.
bearable. Need two Miss. B-Ball tix. Call Matt 287-3977. 
Dear Archway, Jimbo, How could you consider anyone else Happy 21st Birthday early!! And "Kiss PERSONALS after you've had the best. The eight of 4 me you Fool!!" NS Stanford Boys.
Funny sophomore comedians or imitators PS Our feelings are hurt. Happy Birthday big C wanted for sophomore night at the Nazz. You're all a woman should be now you're Call Ken 3507. Happy 20th Cewa Sahm! Wish I were 20 and I'm 73. ther to help you celebrate. We'll be 
With all the Marthas at ND-SMC, How do toasting you down in Mexico. ! Feliz Janice, Mark W. Mary, Mali< H., Jean, you know that this personal is for you or Cumpleanos! Kim, Bob, and Tina: not. You just can't tell. It could be! Much love, Senorita Carol. It's of a fearless young lass a story now Happy Thanksgiving, Martha, you silly I'll tell · 
bunt. Cheech and Chong will have you rolling, Her name doesn't matter. In Ireland she Saturday, Dec. 3rd at Stepan Center. dwells Mary Cherrie, Tickets $3.75 at Ticket Office. Twas on the Illinois mountains she Happy birthday from one queen to commenced her wild career. another! PS Your 19th will be unfcrget­SMC London -Rome summer programs. Where many a wild gentleman shook able, Preppie''' College credit available. For information, before her with fear. Call Prof. Black 4-4938 or 272-3726. Kurt Russell -In the merry month of September from Here's looking at ya Kid! COLOR USC pictures available only at her home she did start, 318 Zahm. Call 8982, thats 8982. Left the boys of Danville nearly broken Mat Maid, Remember the number, 8982. Out of hearted, 
Ok, Ivy or no Ivy, the Wildman will get town, call collect. Saluted her mother and kissed her you. That is a promise. Love ya, darling horse, Wildy SENIORS -RESUME WRITING AND Drank abottle of wine, her grief and tears TYPING .....CALL MAGIE OR MARGO to smother 
Dan, law grad, by Wendy's-
AT 272-5217. 
Remeber me? We met at Sr. In Dublin that night she rested limbs so Picnic...missed you at Corby's that night. GET SOAKED TO THE GILLS.............. weary Call 4868. Paddlefish Happy Hour, Dec. 2, (Friday) Started by daylight that morn. all light 
3 pm to 6pm. and airy, Saint Mary's Students: Seats are still Took adrop of the pure to keep her heart available on the New York Area Charter We all want Marnie Brehmer for little from sinking, flight; Dec. 22nd and Jan. 16th. Call miss Paddlefish. That's an lrishmans cure, she says with a Mary Laverty: 4319. wink. 
Jeanne. Doris, "T", Lynn, Jerri, Clau­Doe, dia, Denisa and Mike.... Now this young lass was alone and went a 
Say hi to the "rents" etc., for me. Sorry Thanks so much for my 21st courtin' one night, I'll miss that Thanksgiving Indy Pork birthday..one that I'll never forget. It She set both the father and the son to Fest! was very special in so many ways. fight. 
Sues Love Mo To fight for her hand they both striped to 
PS Lynn --You are next! the skin, Jeni, And God Almighty, did that make her Have a happy Thanksgiving in Erie. Congratulations John Franko! grin..... (lndluge that food fetish ... l will!) Even though your coaching days are 
s done you can come back as our team Now so far she's survived her great, wild physician. career, Brent, Love, Elbow and your babes in Badin. It's been less than two months -yet she Don't forget to remind your mom to take still holds you all dear, the turkey out (in fact. better make it a)! I'm so proud of you, Doc! I luv you. And she misses and yearns for the time of Little one Dandy the year When this wild irish lass will once again AndreaS., WJJM hold you near. How was last Wednesdays test? 365 (plus two) and we're still talking. With love, The Bear The cookie monster H.A. PS..Thanks for the car&-free Love, E.M.B.B. 

t "~,...r~ .)J:i~ ~1 1. • ..~'"Jr. •.,~ ...,

1-.-......._...........---.,...------·-:-.:-,...-_...:.c:.......... --------­



F~ee University diversifies 
A SPECIAL THANKSGIVING MASS FOR THE 
by Gregory Solman 
Preparations are now underway for the second semester of Free University, and, according to Chairman Dan McCormick, the subject matter offered is becoming "increasingly diversified." 
Among the most notable new additions to the program is a course on throwing the frisbee, taught by Steve Brown, Missouri State Champion for the last two years. 
Other new courses this semester include Gambling and Sports, Ski­ing, Greek Folk Dancing, begin­ning Backgammon, Liturgical Dan­cing, Transcendental Meditation, 

Catholic clergy report · five percent alcoholism rate 
bJ Phil Russo 
Thl' National Conference of '· 'at-1u1lk Bishops have released a rTp• ·rl .,t,rting that about S percent , ,(' C;ll hofll' clergy suffer from .d,·• holi~m. f'h, surwy from the bishops' <'o111mittec on Priestly Life and \1inr-.tn· o;hows that l.b percent of th,· prie'>l'> polled feel that alcohol­hill a mung clergy is a serious l'rohlem while 49.6 percent feel it is 
minrmal or non-existent in their ,·ummunity. 
Notre Dame Chaplain Fr. Robert Griflin labeled the S percent rate of alcoholism as "probably conserva­tive." Griffin went on to say that alcoholism was a problem of the individual and that those most susceptible were the lonely. 
I Jnmarried people are open to akoholism because of the absence of the family unit according to Griffin. In any individual, he stated. "unused energy" leads to stress. thus increasing the chance of alcoholism for priest~. 
r,·ggy Cronin, an alcohol and drug counselor for Psychological Services, also felt that the statiistic was probably too low. Cronin added that alcoholism among the Notre Dame community was not an open subject and that it was difficult to get information on it. She cited the fact that since priests are constantly engaged in work caus in~ mental stress. they are open to alcoholism. · Fr. John Wibon, director of 
Pace named Features Editor 
Tony Pace, a general program and economic major, has been named the new Features Editor for The Observer. replacing Dave O'Kecfe.J O'Keefe, who resigned for personal reasons. will work until Nov. 22 and Pace, a junior, will assume the responsibilities following Thanksgiving break. 
Andre Champagne 
$2.49 
12PAC,KS! 
DREWRY'S  $2.59  
OLD STYLE  $2.98  
CASE  

NATURAL LIGHT 
$5.99 
BUSCH 
$5.99!' 
BOURBON & GIN QT' 
$3.99 

All beer specials are COLD & extendthru saturday. 
Judo and Self-Defense, Physics as a means to Architecture, News­paper Operations, Beginning Bridge, and German History. Many of last semesters courses will be repeated, also. 
Free University is a program offering no grade, no credit, mini­courses for anyone interested in expanding their horizons into fields that aren't normally included in the standard curriculum. The Program was started during the late 1960's and then discontinued until Charlie Moran, last year's special project chairman, resurrected it. 
Anyone inthe university who is anxious to test his or her teaching skills is invited to instruct a Free 
Public Information for Holy Cross Priests, described that report as a "good study." He added that since the figure does not include. those that have not identified them­selves, the report was probablv conservative. · 
Wilson praised the bishop~ for coming out with such a report because it would encourage the layperson with a drinking problt'm to seek help. Concerning alcohol­ism among the Holy Cros!> Priest-;. he said that the rate fo"' the ordt'r would probably correspond to the national rate. ­
According to Wilson. there i~ a health panel for Holv Crnss Pril'»l'>. This panel, which uriginatcd ir. 1974, is one of manv springing up across the nation, dealing with all types of health problem., fnr priests. Wilson feels thai theo,~ panels are important because when a priest is physically or mt•ntalh handicapped, he rna;. al~o be hurting those he has to serve 
•********************************
:Who's going to be readly 
* .•
* 
C)
*
:You... 

* who!
:that's !* 

Think Snow's Skiwear *insulated with Down, A»lar ,:Guard, & Rber Rll II will *keep you wann when the *Indiana winter gets rough. *Parkas from $40! So, get !ready for the first snow at 
:e 

51400 us 31 
II'\)
' North•• 
' 

ph 272-5300 !* 
~--------------------~*********• 
11-EIIRARV 

Mon.-Tue!~. 7 ·11PM 
PITCHERS $1.50!! 
50• DRINKS 

Tuesday HAPPY HOUR! 1 3-6PM 
7-11PM
WED. 

25• BEER SHOTS of SCHNAPPS · 
25• 

University course. Teacher ap­
UNIVERSITY WILL BE CELEBRATED BY 

plication forms may be picked up at the Student Union office, or ap­
REV. THEODORE M. HESBURGH, C.S.C. 

plicants may call 1158 for further 
5:00 p.m. --Monday, November 21

information. Applications are due by S p.m. Wednesday. 
Saaed Heart Chun::h In response to the tremendous amount. of requests he has .ICX:~ctoo=-c:x=-c:)C~OOI=-c:::X::X:ICICIOOI:XXX:~ctooQo!=-tJ
rece:ived, Philip Volpe will again teach his bartending course, the most popula1r course in the !history of Free University. 
"We are presently searchung for proficient frisbee throwers to assist in teaching the Frisbee course," said McCormick, "We'd also like anyone interested in teaching auto mechanics, photography, or wine tasting." 
Booklets containing a complete list of courses will be distributed to all dorms at Notre Dame and St. Mary's, and will also be available at La Fortune by Jan. 26. Registration for the classes that are to begin the week of Feb. 13, will be held Jan. 30-31. 
Lawstudent to showslides 
John Borman, a Notre Dame law student, will give a slide presenta­tion on the Boundary Waters Canoe Area of Minnesota's Superior National Forest tonight at 7 p.m. in the Law Building lounge. 
The Boundary Waters Canoe Area, the second largest area in the National Preservation System, is currently a topic of Congressional discussion. After years of lawsuits. logging and road building will resume in 10,000 acres of virgin forests. Future federal timber sales, as well as snowmobile and motorboat interests, may threaten additional areas. 
Tonight's presentation is spon­sored by "the friends of Boundary Waters wilderness." 

· -r.:-._ 

Corby's corby's . . :I .. .. .
--~-.-··. -~ ':. -I thanks
.
H 
I ---·­
.; l:1 •·­
giving
proudly introduces 
party 
BILLY 
BEER 
brewed for and with the personal approval of one of America's all time great beer drinkers-Billy Carter 


Monday and Tuesday nights from 7-3 
Beer t-shirt ive-away courtesy ofBilly C. 
HOW 'f() SU(~CEED IN BUSI:\ESS WITHOUT REALLY TR\.1\(, 


SH()W DATES 
N()V. 22-26 

D~:(:. 6-11 and I:~-18 
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT CENTER STAGE PRODUCTIONS 233-1700 
OR CENTURV CENTER 284-971 1 


--~------------------~----------------~-----------. 
.-. 
Mo.;da;:~:,;,~.,.;~1·.c·;~ · ~ilie;:ass.;y;, ·s 


It finally comes down to commitment. 
When you don't like a course, it's hard to excel. The class gets tedious. The texts get boring. The le:tures get dreadfuL Your work suffers. And so do your grades. 
Compare that with the courses you really believe in. You care more. You try more. And without even noticing, you just naturally do better. 
It's true in school. It's true outside of school. For·example, we believe there's just one way to brew ' Busch beet The natural way. With natural ingredients. 
Natural carbonation. Natural ageing. We believe that's the best way to brew a beer. And when you believe in what you're 
doing, you just naturally do it better. Taste a Busch and we think you11 agree. 
BUSCH. 
When)UU beJ.ie\e inwhat)l?U're dping, 
)UU just naturally00 it better: 
--------------------~---­

Monday, November 21, 1977
the observer 

News Briefs____............,.. 
r-==================================== World 
Portuguese plane crashes 
FUNCHAL, Madeira-At least 130 persons were killed or listed as missing after a Partuguese jetline1 overshot the runway, crashed and exploded while landing on this Atlantic holiday island, officials said yesterday. The Boeing 727 of Portugal's national airline TAP skidded off the end of the Santa Cruz Airport runway and burst into flames during blustery weather Saturday night. It carried 156 passengers and eight crew members, TAP spokesmen said. 
NEW DELHI fndfa -A cyclone that has battered eastern India for two days, and a resultant tidal wave, have killed at leas! ~79 persons officials said yesterday. More than 2,00 were reported IDJUred. The storm cut across the Bay of Bengal and hit Andhra Praesh s~te Saturday with heavy rains ~nd winds ~f up to 95 ~.p.h.,. causmg wide devastation and isolatmg many dtstricts, offictals satd. The ensuing tidal wave flooded or was~ed away entire coastal villages near Machilipatnam, about 850 miles south-east of here and 210 miles north of Madras, a spokesman at the state capital said. Parts of Machilipatnam were flooded by the wave. 
r============:::::::=====:::::::=:::::::===== National 
LIITLE ROCK Ark. -Anita Bryant says the National Women's Conference at Houston is "pro-lesbian, pro-abortion and pro many other things that aren't representative of the thinking of_ most American." "I believe in equal rights for women. but not m the Equal Rights Amendment. and certain!~ ~ot in the Wom~n·s Co'nference. which is a waste of $5 mtlhon of the Amertcan taxp<'iyer's money," she told reporters at the Little Rock _Airport on Saturday en route to a singing engagement in nearby Pme Bluff. 
On Campus Today_------.. 
4 pm 
4 pm 
4:30pm 
5 pm 
5 pm 1, 9:15 
civilization film series, "the pursuit of happiness;" sponsored by bus. and econ. dept. ,carroll hall, smc. no charge 
seminar "gas phase reactions p_roducing .e.~cited states of molecular iodine and exctlplex xe1. dr. franz grieser. nd, spon. by radiation lab., 'con(. rm rad. bldg. 
colloquium, "the results on modular forms." prof. howard resnikoff, univ. of cal. irvine. spon. by math dept., rm. 226, ccmb. 
thanksgiving mass, rev. theodre m. hesburgh. c.s.c., will celebrate a special thanksgiving mass for the nd community. sacred heart 
french club meeting, faculty dining room. south dining hall 
film, "the sting," spon .. by society of women 

& ll:JO pm engineers. eng. aud. $1. 
7 pm 
7:20pm 
8 pm 
12:15 . 2:00 
6:30 · 
I 
I 
slide show, "save the boundry water wilderness," john borman, spon. by friends of the ~ou?dry waters wilderness. law school lounge, all are mvtted 
duplicate bridge, ladies of nd. faculty and staff duplicate bridge. university club. 
' 
lecture, "development of an interdisciplinar.y po~~t of view: theorectical and conceptual constderattons, dr.. celso furtado, univ. of paris, spons. by dept. of economics. hayes-healy aud. 
nocturne night flight, scan coughlin plays progressive rock and jazz. wsnd 88.9 fm 
am this morning, mike 

. 8:00am · beno. wsnd 640 am. 
NEW IN SOUTH_BE~D 
COSIMO'S HAIR DESIGNS 
FO.R MEN & WOMEN 
COSIMO, RQSE & 
I SUE AREYO_U~ HAIR DESIGNER: 
for APPT. call 277-1875 Mon-Sat 8 to 6 

ext tQ ·'the Distill 
ridenour, carrie rhoa, dave 

On NO sports tix 
Employees receive 50% discount 
by John Mahon 

Certain Notre Dame faculty and staff members are eligible to obtain season tickets to football, basket­ball, and hockey games at a SO percent discount, according to ND 
. Ticket Manager Michael Busick. The unwritten University policy became a source of controversy when a former ND employee, Zenon Bidzinski , filed suit against the University for breach of con­tract. Bidzinski 's request for discount tickets was denied after he left his position with the Univer­sity. The case was settled out of court last week. 
Busick said he rPceived the names of those who are eligible for 
TURKEY DAY 
atND­atSMC l 

There will be a Thanksgiving celebration, including a mass and dinner, for the St. Mary's commun­ity tomorrow. 
According to Jeannie Ritter, spiritual commissionre, there will be a folk mass at 4:45 p.m. in Regina Hall Chapel. The celebrant will be Fr. Edward Krause, who said that the mass will be offered for the Hunger Coalition. He added that it will give St. Mary's students a chance to give thanks together as a community. · 
Senior Betsy Bistrick organized a special Thanksgiving dinner featuring turkey, dressing, and a special desert bar. Krause will be on hand following the mass to bless the meal. The dinner will be held at the St. Mary's Dining Hall from 4:30p.m. to 6:15p.m. 
Judo Club holds class 

The Notr<! Dame Judo Club will hold class today in the ACC wrt>~ 1 ing pit at 6:30 p.m. Begin­ners, and ,hose interested in learning self-defense techniqut><J, are welcome. 
No escorts this week 

There will be no Student Govern­ment escort service this wee!. from Wednesday night to Sunday night. The service will resume Monday night, Nov. 28. 


JOE WISE 
Folksinger, Musician Liturgical Song Composer 
'AQK.CHP 
SATURDAY DECEMBER10 9:30·11:30AM 1:00-3:00PM LITURGY 

For: Anyone involved in liturgies; especially musician 
SIGN UP: Campus M_inlstry Ollie". • 103 Library by December B. 
FEE: $1.00 

the discount for Thomas Mason. vice-president of Business affairs, and Fr. Ferdinand Brown, acting provost. He said the discount has always been provided to those who were approved by either Mason or Brown, and stated it was not a new policy . 
Mason decides which staff per­sonnel are eligible for the discount. 
He said that all staff members are rated by position according to the Professional Management Classifi­cation System. The six highest grades are composed of those people in administration duties, and it is these who are eligible for the tickets. 
Mason stressed that these peo­ple "are all mauagement person­nel." Staff members in lowPt 
Darby's Place will open its door on Thanksgiving Day to members 
of  the  ND/SMC Community  re­ 
maining  at  school  during  the  
upcoming break.  

Munchies and refreshments will be available beginning at 2 p.m. The movie "The Last Tycoon" will be shown at that time. This is a 1977 release based on a novel by F. Scott Fitzgerald. 
At 6 p.m. Fr. Robert Griffin, the University chaplain and co­proprietor of Darby's Place, will celebrate mass at the Keenan-Stan­ford Chapel. Following the mass, at 7 p.m. the main course will be available at Darby's, turkey. ham. and refreshments. Cookies, baked by the Ladies of Notre Dame, and a cake will complete the Thanksgiv­ing Day menu. 
At 8 p.m. the movie "Dr. Doolittle" will be shown followed at 10 p.m. by another showing of "The Last Tycoon". 
Darby's Place is located in the Rathskellar of the LaFortune Stu­dent Center. Admission is free. 
positions are not eligible. 
The discount is not included in the personnel's contract, but is incorporated into the total Fringe Benefit Package, Mason said. He did not know if the official policy was written down anywhere. Approximately 150-200 staff per­sonnel are currently taking advan­tage of the program, Mason said. 
Brown stated that all active and retired faculty are also eligible for the· discount. As is the case with staff, the tickets are provided by the University as a benefit. Teaching assistants are not con­sidered faculty and are not eligible for the tickets, Brown said. 
*The Observer 
THIS IS BE KIND TO MUNCHKINS DAY! Night Editor: Joe Bauer Asst. Night Editor: Tracy Herman Sports layout: Paul Stevens· son Typists: Tom Powanda, Leigh Tunakan, Ann Giere, Mark Rust Night Controller: Mardi Nevin Day Editor: Mike Lewis Copy Readers: Jack Pizzolato, Bob Varettoni Ad layout: Chuck Photographer: Leo Hansen 
The Observer Is published Mon­day through Friday except durtng exam and v~ation periods. Tt)e Observer Is published by the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchaud for no per year IS1 0 per semester) from The Observer. P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second clan posrage paid, Notre Dame, Indiana, 46556. . The Observer Is a member of the Anoclated Preas. All repro­duction rights are reaerved. 

,....,..~~~..,............,....,...........,....,..........................~................................~-..........
~ 

).................................................................._..,..............,.............__~._..,.~--~................ 
i  i  
,  Are you ready for the  i  
~  i  
~  CHRISTMAS BAZAAR?~  
i ~  at SMC  Dec 5, 6, & 7  ii  
i  For information call­ ~  
i  Christy  -4407 (SMC)  i  

.. 
~ 
Sophomore Class 
t-w:PftnR 
at the ' 
HEIDLEBERG 
BEER: $2.00-640Z. Pitcher PIZZA: $2.50-14" 
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 22, 4:00 -7:30PM 
-
ND-SIVIC D«)R CLASSI 

llJESDAY
HAPPY HOUR 
NOVBVIBER 22 3:00-6:00


BEER MIXED DRINKS 
AT 1lE LIBRARY 
Nl ANORS OONIE AND VOlE ON CL.4SS T-stiU DESIGN 


• ,,·. •'' ,.,. f ~J.J. .J .... J•._• '.i •Ia "_v'.,/4. J.',J' 't ~ 
~n1 ~, ..'-l"' : 1 ~"' ~-"j' "'.4 .. ~... ·.lr~ ... ~~~J .."''• .~•rf 
. ' )'1G ·;r 

l 


said: "You could not expect Sada~ 
to deviate from the Arab positions 
when he has already made this 
enormous move by visiting Israel. 
And it is unlikely that Begin would 
make concessions from the rostrum 
of the parliament." 
Sadat made clear he had not 

risked his political future and 
defied Arab unity to further the 
political debate, but to rip down the 
psychological barriers that had 
blocked Mideast negotiations in the 
past. 
Paper pick-up canceled Sunday 
Newspapers will not be picked 

•up for recycling on Sunday Nov. 27. 
Wo '""' Sh•
IHITH• Altul Tloolr llfl•l I s... n.lrs.lotl 


'IOOYSI 
SHCE 
·~ 
• •OCIT ·liT· SIT 1MBI.II,Ill·ECFMI•FLEI·IQE 
NAT'L DENTAL BOARDS • NURSING BOARDS 
Flexible Prog1'81ftS • Hou,. 
'11ane -IS • ••«ermcelll 
_ 

The recycling service will resume l~.o.--------~-------~--------~•
on Dec. 4~o · ~ 
-------~--~--------------------~~~--~-----­

the obaaryar Monday, November 21, 1977 

The Notre Dame defense only allowed 102 total net yards against the Air Force, 45 yards rushing and 57 through the air. [Photo by Kevin Walsh) 
Notre Dame shoots Falco111s 
byTooyhce Sports Writer 

The Notre Dame football team closed out their home schedule on Saturday by whitewashing the Air Force Academy, 49-0. The Irish completely dominated play as the Falcons never mounted a serious scoring threat. 
After the game, Notre Dame received and accepted a bid to play in the Cotton Bowl in Dallas on January 2, 1978. Their opponent will be the winner of next Satur­day's game between Texas and Texas A&M. 
Any prospect for a close contest with Air Force van~shed early in the 
,. 

• 
ND icers drop two decisions 
quarter points. 
The Irish were driving toward another score early in the second period when a Montana pass, intended for Ken MacAfee, was intercepted in the end zone by cornerback Kelly Miller. Air Force then drove into Notre Dame terri­tory for the first time in the game, aided by a 28 yard run on a fake punt by Schafer. However, a third down sack of Falcon quarterback Dave Ziebart by defensive tackle Case forced the Air Force to punt. 
Later in the second stanze, Ferguson racked up his third tally of the day on a two yard plunge. This score culminated a five play, 64 yard drive which featured a 27 

game. After the Falcons punted, Notre Dame had the ball on their own 44 yard line. On the first play from scrimmage, tailback Vagas Ferguson veered off right tackle and raced 56 yards for a touch­down. Split end Kris Haines threw a block at the Air Force five yard line which allowed Ferguson to score. Dave Reeve added the point after touchdown and the Irish quickly led, 7-0. 
Less than four minutes later. Ferguson had his second score of the day. Following the lead block of guard Ernie Hughes, the sopho­more speedster scooted nine yards to reach paydirt. This run capped a 59 yard, seven play drive which was highlighted by a 23 yard pass from Joe Montana to Ferguson. With Reeve's point the score was 14-0. 
Minutes later, Notre Dame's Jay Case forced Scott Schafer to rush his punt and the kick traveled only 13 yards. This gave Notre Dame the ball on the Air Force 39 yard line. Using Ferguson and fullback Jerome Heavens exclusively, Mon­tana then directed the Irish to their 
'third score of the afternoon. This time it was Heavens •: ho.odid the honors, hulling over the goal line from one yard out. Ferguson went over the 100 yard rushing mark on this drive. Reeve's conversion was the last of Notre Dame's first 
by Ted Robinson Sports Writer 

Denver -The Mile High City has \ never been an easy place for the \ Notre Dame hockey team to win. And the task becomes increasingly I difficult when the Denver Pioneers 1 are the top-ranked team in the country. As a result, the Irish winless streak continued as they were swept this past weekend by 
Denver by scores of 8-4 and 8-2. 
Very simply, Notre Dame didn't have the depth to skate with the Pioneers for six periods. Injuries to yard scamper by Terry Eurick. Reeve's fourth placement boosted the Irish margin to 28 points. 
Free safety Joe Restic gave Notre Dame another chance to score late in the first half when he intercepted a Ziebart pass. Mon­tana then moved the club from the Irish 31 to the Air Force 33, where he tossed a scoring strike to Haines. "It was just a simple up and out pattern and Joe put the ball 

• on the Money," Haines explained after the game. Reeve's extra point gave the Irish a 35-0 halftime lead. -Head Coach Dan Devine merci­fully removed the starting offensive backfield from the game after the first half. Ferguson left the game with 128 yards on ll carries, his best game for the Irish. Heavens had accumulated 48 yards in nine rushes and one touchdown. Mon­tana had 11 completions in 15 passing attempts for 172 yards and one touchdown. Early n the third quarter, with Rusty Lisch at the Irish helm, Notre Dame again drove deep into Air Force territory. However, a fourth down pass from Lisch to Dave Waymer fell incomplete. When the Irish got the ball back, they scored their first points of the second half. Steve Schmitz's 24 yard punt return set the ball on the Falcon 26. From there it took six plays, the best being a 16 yard gallop by freshman Jim Stone, to score. This time it was Eurick who scored from two yards out. Reeve booted his sixth placement of the day and the score ballooned to 42-0. The final Notre Dame score of the afternoon came on the first Irish possession of the fourth period. With running backs Stone and Pete Pallas doing most of the work, Lisch directed the team to the Air. Force 11 yard line. There he passed to Schmitz for the only fourth period score. Reeve's seventh extra point of the day. which gave him the Notre Dame career record for extra points with 124, made the final count 49-0. The final statistics for the game indicated the total domination of the Air Force. The Irish had 32 first downs while the Falcons were held to five, all of which came in the first half. Notre Dame had 680 total yards for an average of over seven yards per offensive play. Converse­ly, Air Force had only 102 total yards on 51 offensive plays for an average gain of exactly two yards -[Continued on page 7] 

by P•ul Stevensoll 
Sports EditOr 
An ofthc speculationh~s ended .. The rumors con'*ning which teams will attend certain post­season bowls have either been confirmed or disproven, However, the stories circulating. arQund. du Lac have been substantiated, ..~ cause the Fighting Irish ·.football team has accepted an invitation to play in the Cotton Bowl. . 
The actual invitation, which had been awaited for weeks, • came at 6:45p.m. on November l9.justtw() and one-half hours after Notre Dame had bombiX! the Air Force Academy, 49-0. 
Fielll Scovell and Wilbur Evans, two top Cotton Bowl offici;tls, made the announcement after witnessing Notre Dame;s victory .and after being assW"ed that Texas ha(l 

Bend, didn't help Notre Dame's At the 4:42 mark, Don Jackso cause as Denver stymied the Irish scored his fourth goal of the yt ,, power play and capitalized on . onthe power play. Five minu. Notre Dame mistakes. later, Tom Michalek beat Dem 
Friday night's contest began as a goalie Jim Bales on a breakaway · nightmare for the Notre Dame narrow the lead to 3-2. goalie John Peterson. Mark Fat-Bales, who had an outstanding cone, Paul Messier and Bob Paz-series against Notre Dame at the zelli scored for Denver in the first ACC last year, failed to cover thl. four minutes of the game as post on a subsequent Notre Dame Peterson was having difficulties · power play, and Greg Meredith with the poor lighting in the Denver took advantage of Bales' !apse by Ice Arena. stuffing a shot in from the side of 
Down by three goals very early in the net at 12:39. The goal.was the the contest, the Irish could have , first of the "season for Meredith: easily died, but instead they rallied J who tallied 22 as a freshman last 
··.·..·.·.··:;:-:·:·· 

~~~-~$'~­
·~:~~~~.~~:?~t\j~~~hf~J~~~m.
ing bowl gamesJU Krause stated; "is to play a ~<\J.Utt ab~ve us o~ ~s highly arank~p !e'am as p9s~jl)l~' This will b~ 9il;t'~~fr4 ~ppe~~!~4¢,J~ 
:: ~:tt;rali~~~i~~i:~li~1~~~ 
~=~~.very h;p~t~~~!. forc.v·".:.r.n.·Y···t··.N()treI.h.'ri?.~~~Dame.~·..t:·;··..~.>·····a·l······?·m·d···.... Thelr.ish.w~ll fac~ eitherJe~'¥ rit' Tex:as ·A&M i.n th~ P~Ita.s ~~~~~tt The Aggi¢s a1'1;q. the Longh()(~$ meet this . c:olriing w~ekend t:ol decide whowill fa¢e Notre Dame in. the January 2eyent: . . i : The Iris~ wust fin,ish theii' t¢~r 
~:~~r~6~t:~•\=~3 ~A~~~~ 
Cottpn Bdwt ~ ) 



.--. 
Irish center Billlaimbeer returned to his trl'.,hmt>n vt•.u form, .Hirling 12 points and eight rebounds in the Notn• D.1me "ic-ton. l'huto h~ John Calcutt] 
Irish out-fire Russians 
by Paul Stevenson Sports Editor 
The Fighting Irish basketball 
team opened up their 197.7-78 ' campaign with a convincing 101-80 thrashing of the Soviet National Team. 
Dave Batton put the first Notre 
Dame points on the board with only 
25 seconds elapsed in the season. 
The Russians fought back less than 
a minute later when Aleksandr 
Belostenny connected on a reb0und 
goal for the USSR. 
Then, for the next ten minutes, 
the game was a seesaw battle, with 
each squad either exchanging 
points or turnovers. Finally, with 
8:34 left before intermission, Bill Laimbeer hauled in a rebound and then scored to give the Irish a 23-21 advantage, a lead Notre Dame would never relinquish. 
Tracy Jackson then hit from the left comer and Gilbert Salinas tallied on two free throws to give the II ish a six point edge. Notre Dame then added five more points to build a 34-21 lead with only 4:58 remaining in the half. 
The Russians revolted with a few noints of their own, but the Irish :ontinued to out-score their physi­c·al opponents. With only one ;ccond left before halftime, Batton (pund the range on a 17 foot jumper from the top of the key to give 114otre Dame a commanding 52-34 
•nargin at intermission. 
The second half was a constant 
exchange of p0ints, with the Irish 
maintaining their 20 point margin. 
With 7:40 remaining in the battle, . 
Duck Williams came up with a 
steal, then dunked the ball to give 
the Irish a 89-63 lead. Rich· 
Branning connected on a ten foot 
'· •t from the right baseline, giving 
the Notre Dame cagers a 28 point 
advantage. But, that was as wide 
as the Irish lead was· to be as the 
.i:':ussians came back to narrow the 
ilnal margin to 21 markers. 
Tht. story of the game was one of an unhelievably balanced attack by the Irish and one of turnovers for the USSR. Batton led the Notre Dame cagers with 18 points, while Williams followed with 14 markers. _Branning, Laimbeer and Bruce 
Flowers each added 12 points. 
In addition, the Irish had 11 players who logged playing time in double figures. Notre Dame also ' Yes, keeping the players fresh 
and rotating the defenses helped 
the Irish overcome the Russians. 
The USSR gave up 35 turnovers, 
while Notre Dame suffered only 11. 
By alternating defenses, Notre 
Dame was able to tire and frustrate 
the large Russian team. Vladimir 
Tkachenko, who tallied 41 points 
and grabbed 15 rebounds the night 
before against Indiana, was only 
able to score 15 markers and 
register five caroms. 
Leading the Soviet attack was 

Vladimir Derguin, who connected · 
on eight of 11 field goal attempts 
and six of seven free throws for 22 
points. Tkachenko was the only 
other Russian player who reached 
double figures. 
Laimbeer led the Notre Dame 
cagers with eight rebounds, while 
freshman Orlando Woolridge be­
came an instant crowd-pleaser with 
his spectacular blocked shots and -six caroms. 
"I think the Notre Dame team is 
very powerful." Russian Coach 
Aleksandr Gomelsky stated via his 
translator. "They have good 
technique, shooting, rebounding 
and physical strength ... 
The USSR coach agreed that his team may have been tired from all of their traveling and the difficulty caused by playing under collegiate regulations. But, he was quick to stress the strength of the Irish cagers. 
"I think we lost to a very powerful, strong and classy team," Gomelsky remarked. "Notre Dame does not only have good players, they have a good overall team." 
Notre Dame has led the nation in 
rebounding margin over their op­
ponents the past two seasons. 
However, the Irish were out­
rebounded by their competitors, 
41-38. But, Notre Dame Head 
Coach Digger Phelps witnessed 
several positive aspects in Friday 
night's contest. 
"We're very happy with the balance we had," the Irish mentor commented. "We just really pressured them, and that made them look bad. We're just happy to have our depth. We have 12 or 13 guys and that's going to be our team." 
The Irish's next clash will be this Saturday against the University of Mississippi at home. The Russians 

continue their U.S. tour tonight both of whom remained in South th.e lead. ·· ·. .' .: . · ' · • (COI'ithiued on pilge. 1-J ·.-· :corit'use them largat. 'fi:ompe.titors. -when . .they. battle·Rutgers. 
Don. Fairholm and Kevin Nugent,. Iwjth four consecutive goals to t~ke_.,i y_,~a.rt ....•.·.-. • . ,·...•-~d;..a mul~iplicityo_J?f def~ses to 

