

server 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's
Vol. XII, No. 63­
Friday, December 9, 1977 

SAGA workers begin unionization procedure 
by Bob Varettoni Christmas break. There are 215 SAGA sity on behalf of the groundskeepers. SAGA pays $2.50 an hour for. 
Senior Staff Reporter employees, and at least 30% of these had One SAGA employee noted, "Since we The NLRBsupervises any election held to to participate in a card campaign to set up have <=orne so close to unionizing, maybe determine whether of not workers choose SAGA food service workers have peti­the pos.sibility for his election. this will encourage University workers to to unioni:~;e. · According to NLRB regula­, tionefl for an election to decide whether or A hearing will be held on Dec. 20 to be less intimidated about organizing." tions, each employee casts one yes-no vote. not to unionize. determim: who will actually vote in the The employee said that Robinson called If more than SO %.of the employees vote 
The Teamsters, representing the SAGA election. According to Stahl, up to 20 of the Teamsters "bad for the University and "yes," a union is organized. employees, filed the petition for election the employees might be classified as-bad for SAGA at yesterday's meeting. The Such an election among SAGA-employ­with the National Labor Relations Board "supervis.ors" sho are unable to vote. employee also noted SAGA's reputation as ees would be held on the Notre Dame (NLRB) on Monday, Nov. 21. Bob "We don't anticipate any problems at this a union citing the fact that only 22 of the campus. It could not be held during break, Robinson, senior food service director, hearing,"' Stahl added. 450 food services run by SAGA have been Stahl noted, since too many SAGA employ­confirmed this at a meeting of SAGA l he move is not related to the grounds-unionized labor· ees will be on vacation then. employees and administrators yesterday in keepers' attempt to unionize . The food The employee also noted that the Local SAGA has run the food service at St. the South Dining Hall. _ service workers are SAGA employees, and 364 represents the Penn-Harris-Cadison Mary's for 22 years. It officially toot nvPr 
Orville Stahl, representative of the not employees of the University. The School Corporation. Women workers in the Notre Dame food service on Nov. 1 with Teamsters Union Local 364, said that the Teamsters, however, have an unfair labor these dining halls, the employee claimed the signing of an eight month contract, election will be held sometime after practices suit pending against the Univer-make $4.52 an hour for the same work that renewable on July 1. 
******************************************** 
Student Union
Concert ** * * 
* ~ * to continue
* *
policy * * * * 
* * free tix policy
* ~ *
* --~ * 
** t,•. ' I.$: 1 ' * by Dave O'Keefe 
,-~·>.·•.;" '-~ ' l:d * 
Staff Reporter 

initiated 

* '2:'-·--:!"~~· * 
! ___ ;; :{::-\-\~"'-·-::. / ! Despite a critical recommendation from by Val Stefani 
* ·' )~~ * the Hall Presidents Council, the Student* -<'::;-' *Union Board of Directors decided Wed­.Excessive use of marijuana and vulgarity 
* c:.-· * nesday night to continue the current at 'ast Saturday's Cheech and Chong ! * practice of buying concert tickets with concert has resulted in a new policy 
* ! Union money and distributing them to its regarding the quality of entertainment 
* members. 
presented at Notre Dame. * ! The Board of Directors had heard St. At a meeting held last Monday, James * * Ed's President Michael Roohan outline the 
A. Roemer, dean of Students and Tom * * HPC recommendation as well as the 
Gryp, director of the Student Union, * * underlying sentiment. 
discussed the incidents and agreed that * * "It doesn't seem right," Roohan ar­some guideline was necessary to govern ~ * gued, "for an organization to run at a future use of campus entertainment facili­* * deficit of $60,000 and at the same time ties. 
* ~ provide this kind of service for its 
In a letter to Gryp, Roemer requested * * members.''that a written proposal regarding future 
* * Student Union Director Tom Gryp de­events held on campus should be submit­* * fended his position by pointing out that,ted to Bro. John Benesh, director of * * despite the change in concert bookingStudent Activities, for approval. 
* * procedures, last year's "complementaryThe concert was scheduled as an ** * tickets" also cost the Union money.
experiment to test the feasibility of using * ''The fact remains,'' Gryp argued, •'that Stepan Center to hold similar, large-scale ! ! there were 100 tickets taken away from the events. Bothe Roemer and Gryp agreed * * gross profits and distributed within thethat even though the first "mini-concert" * * Union much more liberally."
experienced problems, it is possible to hold * * Yesterday's announcement by the Board such programs in the future provided that * * of Directors calls the present policy "fair certain standards regarding selection and * * and legitimate" and contends that "the 
entertainment met.

quality of be * * Student Union, although a volunteer 
"To my knowledge, this was the first * * organization, is also a business, and, as time that a production on that large of a ! :: such, is responsible to the Student Body for 

scale was held in Stepan Cnter," Gryp * its smooth function." commented. 
* ! "In our opinion," it continues, "the 
Roemer's primaryh objections ot the 

* * distribution of complementary tickets con-concert were the "poor faste" in humor * * tributes to the smooth function of the 
and the amount of marijuana present, despite the presence of four St. Joseph entire Student Body." 
******************************************** Student Union, and therefore benefits the County deputy sheriffs hired as a security _ T0 QO t0 C0 HOr:'_ SoWI "I'm not surprised," was the reaction of measure by the Student Union. He also stated that entertainment events 
St~rdents urged to use tour .~:n~h !~s~~:~!!~r=-Ph'ri~~;:\:~~
held at the University should be primarily tdent Nancille Bt!dds, and Holy Cross 
for the student body and not for members President Ted Howard, make up the HPC
by Lou Severino directly across from the Marriot, headquar­
of the outside community. Approximately 
ters for the Fighting Irish Football Team. Standard Review Committee responsible700 students attended the concert, while Sign-ups for the "Go Irish Tour," to the On game day, buses will transport the for the recommendation. 
the other 1700 concert-goers were mem­Cotton Bowl began yesterday and accord­students to and from the Cotton Bowl. "They pretty much had their minds bers of the local community, many of them ing to St111dent Union Director Tom Gryp, However, game tickets will not be included made up," Wissel adiled. "I'm sure they
quite young. 
the turnout was "very dispappointing." in the tour package. The trip will conclude already knew what they were going to "Stepan Center should be used to bring 
"In light of all the student clamor for a on Jan. 3 with one plane leaving Dallas at say."
enjoyment to the student body and not to· trip it is very disappointing that very few 12:45 p.m. and arriving in Chicago at 2:00 Wissel saw no hope for further action. 
promote acts that specifically cater to the students have signed up so .far," said "there's nothing more we can do," she
p.m. Buses will leave at 2:30 p.m. for the desires of the outside community,' Gryp Gryp. "This is especially true considering return trip to South Bend. said. "We've made our recommendation agreed. 
the fact that this trip will put students right Gryp commented that, "The trip will be and we've talked to them, but it's their Roemer added in the letter that outside 
in the midst of all the Cotton Bowl very flexible because students can take policy.''
community members attend campus enter­activity,"' he added. either of two buses and planes to Dallas. 
tainment when ticket center outlets such as The tour, which was coordinated by Also people in Chicago can meet the tour at ·the River City Review are used to promote independent agent Michael A. Chismar, O'hare for the United Airlines flight. 
the events. 
will leav«! South Bend on the morning of Sign-ups for the trip, which costs Future entertainment programs sche­Dec. 31. Two buses, one leaving at 7 a.m. $272.50, will be h_eld daily through Dec. 14 duled for the second semester include the and one at·. 8 a:m. will transport the from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. in the Student Union Amazing Kreskin and Paul Gerni, a trick students to O'Hare Airport in ChiCago. office and on the second floor of Lafortune. 
shot pool artist. Also scheduled is a 
Once in Chicago the students will have the The first 175 students who sign up and pay one-act play on James Thurber starring option of boarding one of two plimes, one for the trip will be accepted. William Windom. The play will be he~d on leaving at 10 a.m., the other. at 11:30 a.m. •·we must have a minimum of 90 
Jan. 24 in Washington Hall rather than After landing in Dallas, the students will s~dents," said Gryp; "if we don't reach Stepan Center as a result of a conflict stay thre:e days and three nights double this number we will have to re-evaluate the }lresented by Mardi Gras. 
occupancy in the Do\¥ntown Holiday lnltl, [continued on page 6] 
his is the last issue 
of The Observer 
for the semester 
~--------------------------------------------------------------------------~-----------------------------------------------------------~­


the observer Friday, December 9, 1977
2 

On Campus Today_........_. 
friday, dec. 9 , . 
1:45pm lecture, "sugar, from plantation to agro-business" by der. harry w. hutchinson, univ. of miami, sponsored by anthro. & soc. dept., lib. lounge 
2:30 -9 pm xmas party, spon~ored by sociology dept., surprise refreshments, bulla shed 
3:25pm seminar, "the design of axial high throughflow centrifuge for separating oil from water", by prof. vijay stokes, indian institute of tech., kampur, india, sponsored by dept. of chem., aerospace & mech. engr., rm 269 chem. engr. bldg. 
4 pm swimming, nd. vs. cleveland state, home 
5:15pm mass & supper, bulla shed 
7• 9:15 film, "Rocky", sponsored by stud. union, eng. aud.,

&11:30 pm $
1 

7 pm bible study & xmas party, sponsored by campus crusade for christ, lib. lounge 
7:30pm hockey, nd vs. north dakota, home 
8 pm documentary, "union maids", concerns women organizing in the '30's, sponsored by interdisciplin­ary committee for women's studies, lib. aud. 
8 pm speech, coach dan devine, sponsored by dillon academic commission, dillon chapel 
8 pm nd/smc theatre, "the caucasian chalk circle", o'laughlin aud. 9 pm · 1 am nazz, rex delcamp & mike tsubota; bob sullivan & joe carey 12:00 midnight, nocturne nightflight, frank Iaurino presents tribute to jazz artist rahsaan roland, wsnd-fm 88.9 
saturday, dec. 10 

Sam exam, graduate record exam, eng. aud. 
1 pm wrestling, univ. of evansville, st. joseph college, valparaiso univ., nd 
7:30pm hockey, nd vs. north dakota, home 
8 pm nd/smc theatre, "the caucasian chalk circle", o'laughlin aud. 
9 pm· 

-11:30 pm nazz, ringo & jester present: "christmas at the nazz" 
sunday, dec. 11 

1 pm hpc meeting, walsh hall 
3 pm concert', advent & christmas choral concert, sponsored by dept. of music, sacred heart
7:30pm 

& 10 pm 'film, "high society", sponsored by smc jr. class, carroll hall, smc, $.75 at door. 
8 pm concert, annual smc christmas concert, sponsored by smc dept of music, church of loretto 
concert, advent and christmas choral concert, sacred heart
8:15pm· 

9 pm meeting, ham radio club, grace hall penthouse 
6:30 -8 am a.m. this morning, jeff hebig on monday morning, wsnd, 640 on your dial 


WEATHER-Cold 
Cloudy, windy and cold today with snow flurries and heavy snow possible near Lake Michigan. Highs in the low to mid teens. Clearing and very cold tonight with lows between zero and 5 below. Mostly sunny and cold tomorrow, highs in the low teens. 

'Campaign' hits 58 per cent 
The University of Notre Dame's In terms of ·the major campaign 
current development program, one priorities, 46 per cent of the $92 
of the largest in American higher million endowment goal has been 
education, has achieved 58 per cent achieved, 71 per cent of the 
of its $130 million goal in eight physical facilities goal of $29.3 
months. million, and 73 per cent of the $8.7 
Launched last April, "The million goal for current use funds. 
Campaign for Notre Dame" has When announced, the campaign
received gifts and pledges totaling was the 12th largest fund-raising
$75,035,250, according to Univer­effort in American higher educ­
sity trustees and campaign co­ation, and it is the largest in Notre 
chairman John T. Ryan and Mrs. Dame's 135 year history. The 
Ernestine Carmichael Radin. Gifts principal objective, which grows
and commitments have come from out of a recent study of University 
slightly more than 30,000 indivi­priorities, is to substantially
duals, foundations, corporations, tncrease Notre Dame's current 
1 estates . $108 million endowment. 
.......,.,-&"-••ava""&•••••••••.-...__.......,.-.._.,..._•• ..,.~.,.---•••••••• -~•-•••~•••·•~•· 
'Nutcracker' to be performed 
Southold Dance Theatre will 
perform the traditional holiday 
fantasy, "The Nutcracker," 

tonight and Saturday at the Morris 
Civic Auditorium. Tonight's per­
formance begins at 8 p.m. and 
there will be two shows on Satur­
day beginning at 1:30 p.m. and 8 
p.m. 

Sponsored by Century Produc­
tions, this year's "Nutcracker" will 
have sets especially created for 
Southold by Tom Miller of IUSB. 
Costumes were designed by War­
ren Pepperdine of the IUSB Thea­
tre Department. 

The story of Clara's magical 
adventure into the land of the 
Sugar Plum Fairy and Snow Prince 
is originally interpreted by South­
old in a contemporary version 
combining both modern and classi­
cal styles. A total of 18 dancers will 
bring the fairytale to life under the 
direction of Ann Dunn. 

Tickets are still available at the 
Century Center Box Office. Special 
group rates are available as well as 
a special price for children. More 
information and phone reservations 
can be made by calling 284-9111. 
The Century Center Box Office is 
open 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Monday 
through Saturday and from 1 to 4 
p.m. on Sunday. All seats for the "Nutcracker" are reserved. 
Two Pre-Cana retreats offe.red this year 
Pre-Cana, the Catholic marriage preparation program for engaged students, alumni and Sacred Heart parishioners, is offered by Campus Ministry in two forms: talks with a married couple in that couple's home and retreat weekends. 
This year two retreat weekends are scheduled: the first from Jan. 27 to 28 and the second from Feb. 24 to 25. Those who prefer the first form of Pre-Cana must make those arrangements through the Campus Ministry Office before the program concludes on March 30. 
Sr. Jane Pitz, coordinator, ad­vises engaged couples to complete their Pre-Cana requirement three months before their wedding. For more information, call the Campus Ministry Office at 6536 or 8832. 
The Observer Is published Mon­dly through Frid1y except during ex1m 1nd nation periods. Tl)e Observer Is published by tile students of Notre Dime 1nd S1lnt Miry's College. Subscriptions IMY be pUrdllsed for S20 per ye.,. CSIO per semester).--,trom The Observer, P.O. Box' Q, Notre Dime, lndl1n1 46554. Second chill postqe plld, Notre Dime, lndlanl, 44554. . The Observer Is 1 member of the Assodeted Press. All repro. ductlon rights 1re reserved. 
*The Observer 
'Twa's the Night Before Final 
Issue Night Editor: Bob "Sleigh Driver" Brink Asst. Night Editor: Frank "Cupid" Kebe Layout Staff: Kathy "Merry" Mills,· Katie ."Ca_ndy Cane" Kerwin, Pete "Donner" Lon­go, Marti 11 Holly" Hogan, Sandy "Comet" Colson, Paul "Dasher'' ShappJ.er Editorial Layout: Rich "Sleigh" UtBelle Features Layout: Tony "Pran­cer" Pace / Sports Layout: paul. "Santa" Stevenson Typists: Karen "Jingle" Chiames, Leigh "Tinsel" Jun­akan, Mark '.'Yule" Rust, Mardi "New Year" N~vin, Tom "Snow Scene" Powanda Night Controller-s: Leigh "Tin­sel" Tunakan, Karen "Jin gle" Chiames Day Editor~ Kate "Vixen11 
.Fiyn11 

Copy R~ader: Chris "Dancer" Datzman, Tom "Biittzen" 
Byrne · Ad layout: Greg "Christmas Tree" Trzupek, Bob "Rein­deer" Rudy Photographer: Leo ''Mistle­toe" Hansen 

& pure sugar cinnamon glaze 
U.S. 31 (Dixieway North) in Roseland across from Holiday Inn 
******************** 

Mike Tsubota and Rex Del Camp  Joe Carey and Bob Sullivan  
SATURDAY 9 · 11:30 pm  Final Nite Christmas Show Ringo and Jester present: Christmas At The Nazz  

SUNDAY MASSES a1J Main Church of Sacred Heart~ 
5:15p.m. (Saturday Vigil) Rev. Robert Griffin, C.S.C. 
9:30a.m.  Rev. John Fitzgerald, C.S.C.  
10:45 a.m.  Bishop William E. McManus  
12:15 p.m.  Rev. William Toohey, C.S.C.  
7:15 p.m. Vespers  Bishop William E. McManus  

this friday and every friday 5:15 mass & supper 

DOWN FILLED OUTERWEAR 
Prime Northern down 
Parka's with storm hood s49.95 
100's available Vests s29.00 
Mountain cloth, taffeta, ripstop 

Gretas down product 3 Days only 
Dec.91011 Fri. 9-9, Sat.9-9 
Sun. 11-5 Four Flag Hotel 404 East Main St Niles, Michigan 


---~~-­


Available now at the book­store is a special T -shirt marking Notre Dame's part­icipation in this year's Cotton Bowl. The shirt is dark green with white sleeve stripes and sports a picture of the Irish leprechaun wrestling a long­horn steer to the ground. [Photo by Leo Hansen] 

To An Tostal letter 
by Rosemary Mills Senior Staff Reporter 

An open letter from the An Tostal Committee regarding test schedules during An Tostal seems to have met with favorable reaction from the faculty. The Committee's purpose is to increase the n.u~?er of students attending the acttvittes. 
"It's been indicated that the faculty will attempt to do what they can," related John Rooney, An Tostal Chairman. Rooney consulted the college deans before publishing an open letter in Tuesday's Obser­ver. The letter stated the An Tostal Committee is "humbly requesting the cooperation of the faculty in the scheduling of tests, quizzes, and papers during An Tostal week, especially on Gentle Thursday, April 27, and Frivolous Friday, April 28." 
Brother Leo Ryan, dean of the college of business, stated, "I.think it was good procedure for htm to talk to us regarding the letter." Ryan plans to publish the l~~er i~ his next faculty newsletter. But It 
Special 
HPC meeting 
Sunday 

There will be a special meeting of the Hall Presidents' Council this Sunday at 1 p.m. in Walsh Hall. The meeting will consider further 
proposed revisions of the Student Government constitution. The meeting is open and all interested are welcome to come. 
is still within their prerogative," he emphasized. 
Ryan further explained the policy of the business school to publish course syllabi in advance. "It is a possibility that the :faculty .would consider the dates when settmg up their schedules," h'e said. Ryan stated the syllabi allow the stu­dents to avoid "getting themselves caught" at the end ofthe semester. 
"The faculty realiize that stu­
dents are under pressure," he 
concluded, "we try to avoid a lot of 
last minute pressure and the 
element of surprise.'" 
Although many professors have 
not read the letter, none interview­
ed were opposed to the idea. 
Jamc:;s P. Dougherty, associate 
professor of English, stated, "I've 
always avoided giving tests the day 
after a big football weekend. I don't 
see how this would be much 
different.'' 
Dougherty explained that pro­
fessors tend to give tests around a 
natural break in material. "But the 
request doesn't seem unusually 
difficult," he stated, noting it was 
easier to work around a date they 
hadn't planned yet. Dougherty 
added, "Of course it depends on 
the amount of time involved." 
James Houghton, assistant dean 
of mechanical and aerospace en­
gineering said he had no objection 
to the request. "I'm usually not 
hard-nosed about tests or test 
schedules," he stated, "this 
should be no probl1em. "As far as 
I'm concerned," Houghton con­
tinued, .. -people are also here for 
other things beside academics. 
This is one of those things." 
Houghton noted that it might be 


Sat., Dec. 10 

9pm-? 

Unitarian Church Howard and US 31 
Friday, December 9, 1977 
.the observer 
3 




Off-CampUs Life Commission ready for action next semester 
by Dave Rumbach Senior StaH Reporter 

The Off-Campus Life Commis­sion (OCLC). a four member body designed to provide the representa­tion lackiitg on the new Campus Life Council, will begitt operation next semester, accordittg to Stu-­dent Body President Dave Bender. 
OCLC will consist of four mem­bers--one each from the Office of Student Affairs, the Office of Off-Campus Hou;;ittg, the Gradu­ate Student Union and Student Government. The direct ittput ittto the Student Affairs-office will be one of the main strengths of the new organization accordittg to Bro. Just Paczesny, vice-president for Student Affairs. 
The OCLC will f9cus on four main problem areas: rents and leases, potential residences for students, crime, and the relation­ship between Notre Dame and South Bend. "The goal of the commission," said Paczesny, is the centralization and coordination of 


Faculty reacts favorably 
harder-to accommodate the Com­mittee in departmental courses. But he thought where faculty 
taught  an  individual  course  it  
would  not  be  that much  of  a  
problem.  .  

Linda-Margaret Hunt, assistant professor of biology, said, "It depends what the semester looks like, but I don't normally give tests at that time." 
Hunt explaiiied that most gen­eral biology students are also in either chemistry or physics and the departments have trouble not scheduling conflicting exams. "I generally ask students about tests around a holiday, but sometimes their date isn't the most logical." She added, "If it's not incon­venient to the students, I wouldn't object." 
A letter was also sent to William Hickey, vice-president and dean of faculty at St. Mary's. Cathy Hed­ges, vice-president for Student Affairs said as of yet she had not received any comment. 
Dorm vacators: 
your rooms 
are needed 
Any students presently livmg on campus who are planning to vacate their dorms next semester are asked to notify Carey Ewittg 6877, Nan Buffalitto 283-8735 or Diana Lewis, 7505. 
These rooms are needed for transfer students or readmitted students who wish to live on the concerns of off-campus life." 
Bender also cited improvement of communication between the University offices involved in servmg t~e off-campus community as the pnmary goal for the OCLC. "The various offices of the Univer­
sity never sit down together and figure out what the p~oblems real~y are. Hopefully this group will 
accomplish that," Bender stated. In the area of rents and leases, Bender expressed hope that the 
~CLC tWO~ld eve?t!Ja~ly be~ome mvolved m arbitrating disput~s between student tenants and thetr landlords. He added that the commission woul.d definitely undertake an education program to alert ~tudents to son;te of ~e pot~ntial trouble areas mvolved m leasmg a home. 
To reduce the spiraling rate of off-campus crime, Bender said that the commission .will wo~k with South . Bend poltce t.o 1mprove patrolltng an~ protection of off-
campus housmg areas. Bender decided to wait and see how the expressed doubts about South Bend thing ( OCLC) would tum out." 
police claims that the area 



is r-------... 
already adequately protected stat-
l QuI E ' s 

ing. "I don't know if that's really 1 · I true," he said. F "d & S t d 
Although some of the proposed I rl ay a ur ay I func~ons of ~he OCLC duplicate I _8 't•II ? I 
services provtded by the present · • 
University Office of Off-campus I' 2 f $1 oo I 
Housittg, the new organization will or . I 
in no way replace tlie University 1 office according to Paczesny. ''The I Billy Beer 1 
commission will help the people presently in Off-campus and I or I enhance what has already been Gold done," Paczesny said. .. -• 

THE CAUCASIAN CHALK CIRCLE 

Bredlt's Parable of jusfim and true belongmg 
Decenmer 2,3,&,9,10 · at8:00 p.m. All seats $2.50 ($2 Std-Fac-Staff) 

Need Riders for Christmas Break??? 

CALL O.B.U.D. 
All Observerites invited 
bring friends. 
Van will be available for tran~portation running from the ·ND circle 8:45 and 9:45 pm 
Donations .of '1 payable at the door. 
Darlene Palma, cfu;ctor of Off-Campus Housittg, is hopeful that the new commission will help the off-campus situation. Regardiitg one of the goals of her office she stated "We would like to eventu­ally b~ itt a position to force rents 
down." 
Although the OCLC has yet to hold a meeting or defend a tenant, the organization has already had some influence on off-campus stu­
dents. A small group of off-campus students attendittg an October 13 
crime prevention meeting stated their itttention to "create an off­campus task force to solicit support from the University and added police protection." Those stu­dents, however, decided to post­pone their attempt to organize the 
more than 2000 Notre Dame stu­dents livittg itt South Bend pendittg the performance of the OCLC. 
According to Barb Frey, an organizer of the meeting, "We 4 the observer Friday, December 9, 1977 


Tillman suggests remembering predecessors' views, errors 
by Jerry Perez 

species," Tillman remarked. Lib­viewed liberal studies as the pro­Staff Reporter eral studies have been tools facil­cess by which the soul· was led itating the development and trans­from evil to order."
Addressing an enthusiastic 

mission of fundamental human
gathering of about 60 last night in Tillman chronicled the eventual
values, she commented. 
theLibrary Lounge, Mary Kath­separation between the practical
Describing the pre-eminence at­

erine Tillman, assistant professor liberal arts and such theoretical
tributed to liberal education by
in the General Program of Liberal studies as mathematics. The
early philosophers, Tillman out­
Studies, stressed the necessity for sophists deemed mathematics to be 
lined the Greek ideal of education 
the student liberal studies to "call trivial, she said. "Even Callicles
of "paideia" connoted an integra­
into council both the views and the believed that theoretical knowledge 
tion of all branches of knowledge. 
errors of our intellectual pred­as an end in itself was unheard of,"
Such ''total education" enabled a
ecessors." Tillman explained. 
person to distinguish goodnessAfter a brief introduction by from evil and to develop a personal A third pattern, Tillman said, isGt:>neral Program Chairman John sense of values. the recurrence of certain subjectsLyon, Tillman began the hour-long Within the liberal arts tradition, with which the liberal arts tradition talk by emphasizing the importance Tillman claimed, there are four has consistnetly concerned itself.
of the individual to seek his or her basic petterns which form the She cited as an example the

self-identity with regard to "one's Mary Katherme Tillman, assistant professor in the General
study's core. political question of how individ­
network of past relationships." Program of liberal Studies, emphasized the importance of the
She characterized liberal studies uals form bonds with each other.
Enlarging the context from a disciplline remembering the views of intellectual predecessors.
as concerned in a very basic way Other questions pondered by the
personal to an historical perspec­[Photo by leo Hansen.]
with the making and use of ancients, she noted, included thetive, she interpreted this same particular symbols such as num­nature of the physical universe and 
concern for past events to be the 4$4B~~i9fi\$A\4)~~~ft\$
bers, letters, and words. Although the enigmas_ of creation and death. 
foundation for the study of liberal she noted that the symbols of 

arts. • As her fourth point, Tillman \ ~ 
expression differ from culture to
"It is by the development of stressed that all liberal arts were
culture, Tillman acknowleged that
human culture -a living and originally intended to be integrat­"the thoughts and experiences are I Annual ~ 
continuous form of art -that we ing and forming a unity of truth. 
the same for everyone." 
\ ~ 
have been enabled to surVive as a She cited here Plato's belief that all "Words are mere.external marks learning was linked and that there 
Leadership series which transcend themselves to existed an "alliance and affinity" ~ Christmas Book Sale ~ 
reveal reality," she said. between all disciplines. 
~ ~
workshop starts Augustine, however, had fore­"While we have no desire to 
seen the tendency for works to be return to the Greek polis," Tillman ~ Now In Progress ~ this weekend taken as ends in themselves, commented, "We must admit that Tillman explained. The result, as the Grec:ks and Romans knew \ ~ 
The Volunteer Leadership he saw it, was "work slavery" something." She advised thatSeries, a program which develops and a subsequent turning away certain tools and arts must beskills and an understanding of l Ideal For Gifts ~ 

from wisdom. Tillman traced the learned for the mastery of allvolunteer program administration, 
~ ~ 
deterioration of symbol-making subjects. She suggested the re­will be conducted at month-long from the medieval period's "clever covery of these "lost tools of ~ ~ intervals be~inning this weekend. 
manipulation of words" to the learning." 
Workshop-s will be held at the ultimate sovereignty of logic. 

~Wide Variety Of Subjects f
Tillman cited Jacques Maritain's 
Ball State University Kitselman As a second point, Tillman works that no solution was really

Center and will continue during ~ ~ 
related that the liberal arts were made in the legacy of the ancient. 
Jan. 21 to 22, Feb. 18 to 19 and originally intended to have prac­"Between the fossils and the fads

March 18 to 19. tical applications. Socrates defined we must find a way of fidelity," she ~ at the ~ Activities will be geared toward concluded.
education as the discovery ofskill development rather than gen­values which govern everyday life. The speech the of ~ Hammes Notre Dame ~
was first a 
eral knowledge. Each session will Even the cultivation of mathemat­proposed series sponsored by the begin at 1 p.m. Saturday and end ics was seen as essential for the General Program. Future topics 

on noon on Sunday. The cost of 25 understanding of proportion and . will include a discussion of the ~ Bookstore ~ doll:us per session includes Satur-· skills of learning and the relation­
ordering in one's life.
day dinner, Sunday Breakfast, ship between the liberal arts and 
accomodations and materials costs. Once again citing the Augustin­the civic responsibility. ~fi\$ta~~4~~~~$~~· 
ian perspective, Tillman pointedFor more information concerning out that the cultivation of liberalthe Series, contact the Governor's arts was a "way of restoring order Voluntary Action Program, Room to a disoriented and confused
117. State House, Indianapolis, IN, world." Augustine saw order in

46204. 

language, Tillman explained. "He 



Saint Mary's College 

A Service of Lessons and Carols 
Sunday, Dec. 11, 1977 8 pm 
Church of Loretto Admission Free 


Creatiue Looks 
100 Center Complex lOam Exceptional Gift Ideas 
Hand Painted Tea Sets 
Starts Friday, Docember 23,
Plant Lamps Hand Carved Chess Sets 
at a theatre near you. Check your local neY~Spapers for listing.

.
Be sure to see our body swing 

Friday, December 9, 1977 
the observer 

Proxmire to disc,uss waste in govern11nent 
------~-----------­

by Dave Rombach Senior Staff Reporter 
Wisconsin Senator William Prox­mire will deliver a speech on "Waste in Government" this Sun­day at 8 p.m. in the Library auditorium. 
Proxmire, whose appearance is sponsored by the Student Union Academic Commission, is noted for his frequent role of watchdog for government spending. 
Besides his reputation for de­manding responsible fiscal policy, Proxmire is also famous for his perfect roll call vote attendance. Since April of 1966, he has been present for over 5,000 consecutive roll call votes. 
Proxmire last appeared at Notre Dame in the spring of 1976 when he delivered the kevnote address for the University Bicentennial obser­vance. In the same year he was elected to his fourth full Senate term with 71 percent of the popular votes. True to his reputation, Proxmire spent only $178 to win all of Wisconsin's 72 counties. 
Beginning his political career in the Wisconsin State Assembly, Proxmire reached the Senate in ' 1957 when he won a special election to replace the late Senator Joseph McCarthy. Proxmire had earned a reputa6on as one of McCarthy's severest critics during his career in the state legislature. 

In 1971, Proxmi1re was mention­ed as a candidate for the Democra­tic nomination for President. ' The senator, however, withdrew his name "to better serve the cause of reordering our priorities and cut­ting government waste." 
Proxmire graduated from Yale in 1938 and receiv€:d master's de­grees in Business-Administration and Public Administration from Harvard. He is the author of four books: Can Small Survive?; Report from Wasteland: America's Mili· tary Complex; Unde Sam, Last of the Big-Time Sp1mders and You Can Do it. 
Proxmire is a ranking Democrat on the Senate Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs Committee and chairman of the Subcommittee on Consumer Credit as well as a member of a number of other Senate committees and subcommit­
tees. Senator William Proxmire will talk on "Waste in Government" this Harvard University Sunday night in the Library Auditorium. CambridQ_e, Mass. 02138 
~·~~~~~A~~-·~······~==========~==~==~~ 
~ 

~ 
I'm proud ~ of where 
~ 

~ he bought my 

~ ~ ~ 







CHRISTMAS SPECIAL ~ 
----~~~~~==~·~----~~ 
Mo•·e Watts ' ' Fctr Less ' ' --­
..... lt 'l$~11\ 
D~ollars! 

Sherwood "Certified Per· SHERWOOD Now You Can Afford A iunnance" S.7225 Receiver. Marantz! Model 22208. With 
With over 30 watts per $21c~ 
3-zone tone control, Gyro channel RMS, super quiet ,., Touch tuning and over 20 FM tuner. watts RMS per channel. 
New From Technics! r=~':"""-....'"";;;;00Qh:A'J Technics ST-7300 Tuner. With 

Separate Components At Low Receiver Prices! More Power And More Features! 


Best-Selling Akai CS.702D Frontload Dolby Deck! Wrth low 0.08% wow & flutter. 
wide response. 

~~IMPORTED~ 
7; DOMESTIC:~ 
two tuning meters, test signal generator for level settings. Hand· some simulated wood cabinet. 
Technics SlJ-7300 Amplifier. With 4 1 watts RMS per channel at an inaudible .08% THO. With large power output meters, high filter. 
Technics SL-23 Beltdrive With Stanton Cartridge. With shock resistant base, dust cover and Stanton 600EE cartridge. Features strobe and speed fine tuning. 
B.I.C. 920 Beltdrive With 00Ci Cartridge! Single or multiplay automatic with base, magnetic 
$68

ccrtridge, cueing & anti-skating. 
While They Last! Garrard GT-55. With base, cover and zero-tracking error toneann. $13·9 
Servo-controlled belt drive motor for constant speed. 

6 
.. 0 

0 
6 
.... 
Master In Public Policy 
Harv$rd University 

Application Deadline: Jan. 
15, 1978 
Interdisciplinary program-­economics, quantitative and analytic methods, poli­tical analysis, and public management --as prepara­tion for a career in public service. Academic rigor plus real-world applica­tions. Outstanding aca­demic credentials required. 
. Write: Kennedy School of Government 
Christmas gift! 
Will she be proud or embarTaSsed when friends ask where you bought her gift? Make the lady in your life proud. Your wisest dloice is Van Home Jewelers -a member of American Gem Society -Don't disappoint her. 
By Appointment Only Lower Level of 277-1691 Queen's Castle 54533 Terrace Lane ~ross from Greenwood-Shopping Cent~r 

. '. .:~ 


Vf'NHORNE&Co. 
Dimno1Uis"7/)llkJiu......)ellltlq 
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA 46601 
Monday 10:30am-7pm 
Tues.-Sat. 9:30am-5:45pm 



Be Hair Free and Feminine 


Miss Connie has a word of advice for
. . 

the holiday time. Look your best, have the world famous Kree Dermatron Method of Electrolysis remotfe unwanted hair from face, arms, legs permanently. Call for a personal consultation without 
charge. 



Friday, Deo9nber9, 1977
8 
the ObHIY&r 


. Panthers_ atte1J1pt housecleaning;;ft ~~rc.,, ~ ~~r;.y, 1Ift ~~-=rc.,,. anyone 1nvolvea may be target :The Observer !
! 
OAKLAND• Calif. (API • Police said yesterday that persons involv­edina shooting allegedly aimed at eliminating a murder witness a­
gainst Black Panther Huey Newton 

'. may now themselves be the target
f of a deadly "housecleaning" ef­fort. The web of intrigue began Oct. 23, when three men in jumpsuits attacked a woman in an apartment in nearby Richmond in a wild spray 
of gunfire.Police claim the assault was a 
botched assassination attempt by Panthers on a key prosecution witness in a pre-trial hearing on 
murder charges against Newton, co-founder of the Panther Party. Newton, who has been ordered 
Gryp encourages 
students to take 
cotton bowl tour 
(continued from page 1) re-evaluate the status of the trip. No checks will be cashed until after the Dec. 14 deadline." 
Gryp empasized the fact that the student body should realize the trip was put together because students expressed interest in such a ven­ture. 
"It's up to the students to take 
the initiativ We have done all we can. The students must show that they weren't complaining merely for the sake of complaining," said the Student Union director. 
Gryp also noted that the "Go Irish Tour" is the only student­oriented trip to the Cotton Bowl. "It will be very disappointing for everyone involved in this trip if a representative number of people fail to take advantage of it," concluded Gryp. 

Want to Fly to Florida for Spring Break? 
A charter is being sponsored by a ND student 
Not connected with Student Union 
Can get Airfare & Room or just Airticket 
Trip will be from 3/18 -3/27 
pprox $230 for Airticket & Room (4/room)



iiiiii·--·-·---------------I
Yes, rm interested drop this off I NAME in dining halls I Phone before break II Address Cno obligation) 1 
to stand trial here early next year m 
the shooting of a prostitute and the 
beating of his tailor, says the 
accusations are part of a govern-1 
ment frame-up plot. 
Police say the Richmond shoot­

ing occurred when gunmen went to 
the apartment building where the 
witness lived, intending to kill her. 
But the plans went awry, and in the 
resulting confusion, authorities 
say, one Panther shot and killed 
another. The witness escaped in­
jury. 
The investigation into that inci­

dent crossed state borders with the 
Nov. 14 shooting of Black Panther 
Nelson Malloy, 3l, who was left for 
dead in the desert outside Las 
Vegas, Nev. 
Police said, after talking to 

Malloy, that they believed he was shot by two Panthers and left for dead after Malloy helped Floyd Forbes, a Panther involved in the Richmond shooting, flee to Las Vegas. 
Las Vegas police issued attempt­ed murder warrants Wednesday for two Oakland men believed linked to Malloy's shooting. They were identified as Allen Thomas Lewis, 24, and Rollin Gary Reid, 28. Police said both men were Panthers. 
Richmond Police Lt. Bill Ham­berlin said yesterday, it's "a very strong possibility that someone is making an attempt to shut some­body up. 'Housecleaning' you might call it." 
"If they're going to shoot one or two of them, the same thing may happen to anybody else involyed or knowledgeable," he added. 
Las Vegas police said Malloy's testimony has led investigators to believe that Forbes may have been killed. 
"Either he's out of the country, or he's dead,'' sa1c1 one homicide* investigator, who asked that his* name not be used. * 

Investigators piecing together~ 
the bizarre chain of events believe* that in the confusion of the Rich-* mond incident, Panther Louis* Johnson was killed by Forbes in an* exchange of gunfire. * 
Malloy has told officers that* Forbes himself was wounded in * that shooting and fled to Malloy's! 
house. The pair then flew to Las* Vegas, where they were met by* Lewis, investigators said. * 
While Forbes was hospitalized in* Las Vegas under an assumed* name, Richmond police issued a * warrant charging him with John-: son's murder. Authorities also* 
began looking for Malloy. * 
Forbes was released from the* hospital Oct. 30, and investigators • believe he was murdered soon after. 
t ff 
*
s a .· ** 

Thanks for all your hard work ~ 
d ~ 
an dediCatiOn thiS Semester. * 
y ' d *
OU Ve One a great jOb. * M Ch • I * * 
erry riStmaS tO al !
and tO all * 
~ 
* 

a goodnight * * 
-* 
-:1cHappy­"Holiday, 
~ * 

'S .. . r * 
~.. **
1 1 ~ _.. * 

s eep. M rf * 
8 I * 

~ -* 1Ift -* ~ ~ -1"Happy-1Wappy­"Holidq' "Holiday, 
Thudpucker. Pro­duced by Memphis hit­maker Steve Cropper, Jimmy's new lP Includes music from the NBC-TV Doones­bury Special and an 8-page car­toon book spot­lighting the high points of Jimmy's fabulous career. 
Jimmy Thud­pucker is a legend's legend -the likes of which this de­cade Is not likely to witness again. 



Night Editors: Joe Bauer, Steve Odland, Bob Brink, 
Marti Hogan, Leigh Tunakan, Martha Fanning, Paul 
Schappler. 

Asst. Night Editors: Sandy Colson, Rosemary Mills, 
Margie Brassil, Frank Kebe, Tracy Herman. 
layout Staff:Bob Varettoni, Rich Barlow, Dawn 
Miller, Peter Longo, Jim Veraldi, Beth Cutter, Eve 
Tunklerott, Marti Hogan, Kathy Mills. 

Day Editors: Mike Lewis, Tom Nilsson, ·Maribeth 
Moran, Kathy Connelly, Kate Flynn, Jack Pizzolato, 
Mary Pat Tarpey, Jake Morrissey, Mary Beth 
Lawrence, Lynn Roberts, Molly Wolfe. 

Copy Readers: Phil Cackley, Diane Wilson, Tom 
Byrne, Jack Pizzolato, Ann Gales, Bob Varettoni, 
Chris Datzman. 

Features: Tony Pace, Bob Barron, Anne Cordes­
man, Rosemary Mills, George Costello, Mark 
DeMeo, Mitch Feikes, Brian Gruley, Joan Grabow­
ski, Joel Harrington, Ken Hendricks, Lorraine 
Smelser, Tom Wittebot1, Fr. Bill Toohey, Fr. Robert 
Griffin, Dave O'Keefe. 

Editorials: Maureen Flynn, Carmen Carbone, Rick 
LaBelle, Rosemary Mills, Judy Rupprecht. 
Sports: Paul Stevenson, Laurie Reising, Tim 
Bourret, Debi Carey, Craig Chval, Kelli Conlin, 
Maureen Daly, Tom Desmond, Bob Keen, Jan 
Kopec, Tony Pace, Ted Robinson, Greg Solman, 
Monte Towle, Nancy Tuskey, Leigh Tunakan. 
Typists: Mike Bodle, Rich Clarizio, Gwen Coleman, 
Mary Corbett, Mary Jo Cshing, Lisa DiValerio, Ann 
Giere, Nellie Liang, Eileen Lynch, Mary McCor­
mick, Tricia Meehan, JoAnne Meyer, Mardi Nevin, 
Suzy Plavac, Tom Powanda, Beth Rizzo, Mark Rust, 
7',. 

.. 
Sue Scribne~, Leigh Tunakan, Paula Vernon, Stacy Weaver, Juhe ,Judd, Steve Odland, Karen Chiames. Photographers: Leo Hansen, John Calcutt Ron Szot, Julie Palafox, Kevin Walsh, Greg Tr~upej[, Beth Cutter, Doug Christian, Ken McAlpine. 1 • Advertising: Steve Bonomo, Mary Acker, Paula Carroll, Rob Civitello, Chuck Dunn, JeffEboll, Peter King, Renee Leuchsten, Bill Nester, John O'Don­nell, Greg Trzupek, Debbie Westrope. Reporters: Ann Bachle, Sue BaUmann, Jeff Banas, Drew Bauer, Mike Berberich, Bridget Berry, Dave Brehl, Jim Brennan, Kathleen Brennan, Mary Beth Budd, Ellen Buddy, Phil Cackley, Ed Callahan, Judf Cerabona, Joe Guina, Kelli Conlin, Kathy Connelly, Mary Ellen Connelly, Paul Coppola, Jim Coyne, Rob Cymbaluk, Chris Datzman, Bill Delaney, Pat Dermody, Jennifer Disabate, Janne Dowd, Jenny Durkan, Sheila Dtirtn, Maureen Eyers, Kate Farrell, Sam Fink, Kate Flynn, Tom Ford, Laurie Lee Foss Maria Frigyesi, Ann Gales, Mike Golden, teresA Gomo, Joan Grabowski, Tim Grothaus, John Gruesser, Maureen Hennessy, Clyde Iverson, Tim Joyce, Paul Julin, Kathy Jurgens, Lorraine Kalil).a, Chuck Kaufman, Mike Kenahan, Laura Larimore, Frank Laurino, Michelle Leahey, Renee Leuchten, Tim. Lew, Mike Lewis, Janet Libert, Peter Longo, Demsa Lynk, Rick MacKenzie, Jack Mahon, Terence Mannior, Janice McCormack, John Me Dermott, Susan McEntee, Pegg:y McGuire, Honey McHugh, Dave McLean, Mary McManus, Susie Meyers, Rosemary Mills, Caroline Moore, Mary Ann Moore, Maribeth Moran, Jake Morrissey, Cathy Murray, Jim Neary, Stephen Needles, Kate 
'· _.;:.-. 

Nelana, John O'Leary, Tony Pace, MatY,iPalumbo, Pat Payne, Tom Phillis, Tom Pepke, Jerry Perez, Jack Pizzalato, Rob Powers, Brigid Rafferty, Mike Ridenour, Dave Rumback, Mark Rust, Maureen Sajbel, Jana Schutt, Andy Segovia, George Shelton, Colleen Short, Jack Silhavy, Chris 
Simony, Todd Starich, Val Stefani, Florenceann Stringle, Tim Sullivan, Mary Pat Tarpey, Jeff Thinnes, Patty Throne, Bob Varettoni, Robert von Ohlen, Kevin Walsh, Diane Wilson, Tom Wittebort, Molly Woulfe, Sue Wuetcher, Karen Zalechi, Phil Wildenhaim, Marian Ulicny, Bob Brink. Circulation and Distribution: Kevin Moffat artists: Pam.Butterworth, Pat Byrnes, Mike Molin­
elli, Maureen Sajbel. Administrative assistant: Ceil Popovich. Administrative Mascot: Bill McLean. 


NOW AVAILABLE at THE HAMMES 
NOTRE: DAME BOOKSTORE 
N10TRE DAME, INDIANA 48558 
· 


No meal plans for SMC students 
by Jennifer Disabato 

Fixed operating costs and mini­mal savings were cited as the major reasons for the lack of interest in investigating the possibility of weekly meal plans at St. Mary's. 
Jason Lindower, St. Mary's Con­troller, stated that the request for meal plans is a recurring one that has been looked into in recent years. 
"The calculated cost difference between a 14 and 21 meal per week plan was found to be so minimal that it wasn't worth the time to investigate further," Lindower said. "Saga's and the school's fixed costs remain basically the same and would have to spread out over fewer people per meal." 
Lindower explained that Saga does not assume 100 percent attendance at any meal and that food preparation is based on esti­mated attendance. "Miscalcula­tions in how "many people would attend each meal could result in either excessive food waste or running out of food in a meal," Lindower said. 
When asked why other schools have implemented similar pro­grams successfully, Lindower explained that in terms of the type of atmosph~re St. Mary's projects, no companson could be made. "St. Mary's is primarily a resident school and the majority of students stay on campus," Lindower said. "In this type of atmosphere, the dining hall is a social center" besides no substantial savings fo; te school or the student, the college atmosphere would be changed." 
TGIF :-r-I-Que 
/.~~:\S'

Restaurant .alld LDunge 
Featuring the finest in hickory ~moked barlteque.. -CDOked over an open pit with specilll 
SiiUCll 
.75 or $1.00 Pitcher's 
of Beer with Dinner 
HAPPY HOUR DAILY 4-7 p.m. 
Pitchers $1.25-$1.50 Beer.35 
4-3 a.m.

1132 S. Bend 
dailY

Ave. 
dosed Sun.

Phone 
and Mon.

289-0639 

8 the ....o...b_s!lllieurvL..IllleiillJrL-.______F_ri_d_ay_,_o_e_c_e_m_b_e_r_9_,_19_7_7 
Commissioner coordinates plans to improve security on campus 
by Bob Brink Ass't. Managing Editor 
Various improvements in the area of campus security are cur­rently underway, while several measures have recently been in­itiated, according to John Ryan, newly appointed student govern­ment commissioner dealing with campus security. 
"Our interest is in working on anything that may help to improve the situation on campus," said Ryan. "We want to work with any other group that's interested in campus security." 
One of the problems in trying to improve security on campus, said Ryan, is coordinating the work of the various concerned individuals and groups. He expressed concern 
8-ball game 
rescheduled 
The women's basketball game between Notre Dame and Grace College which was scheduled for this evening has been rescheduled for Jan. 31 at ND. 
Special mass to .celebrate feast day 
There will be a special mass to celebrate the feast of the Virgin of Guadalupe, Monday, Dec. 12, at 
5: IS p.m. in Sacred Heart Church. This feast day recalls Our Lady's appearance to an Indian boy out­side Mexico City shortly after the conquest by Cortes. 
Monday's mass will include Mexican music, and the Eucharis­tic Prayer will be celebrated in Sp!mish. 

"that a duplication of efforts" be avoided. 
One program that has just started is the campus escort ser­vice. Female students can call and request that an escort be sent to accompany them across campus. Ryan expressed the hope that this service would receive more use. 
The hazardous situation that existed along the St. Mary's road has also received some attention. Security patrols have been more cautious, and trees have been trimmed away from the lights on the road to increase the lishting. 
Ryan mentioned that a Security Advisory Board is in the process of being established, and that ap­plications are currently being taken to fill the positions on this board. He added that he was 
concerned about the  area  behind  
the  ACC  to  the  Turtle  Creek  
Apartments.  

One idea currently being con­sidered is a self-defense program for female students. The program is a public service of the South Bend Police Department that teaches "fail-safe techniques" on how to avoid attacks. 
Paula Fuchs, a Notre Dame law student, has been working on this idea, but she said that it was only in the planning stages and that nothing concrete would be done with it until at least next semester. 
Fuchs did say that she thought some kind of self defense instruc­tion program should be established on a year-to-year basis. "It is important to make it a permanent thing so that whenever there's a rape people don't just forget about it shortly afterwards," she said. 
Ryan agreed that the idea of a permanent program "should be considered," and added that Stu­dent Government would be willing to help organize a self-defense program. 
J.P. Russell, chairman of the 


OPEN: MON-·THURS 9AM-11 PM FRI-SAT 9AM-12PM SUN 12NOON-12PM 
PKG. LIQUOR, WINES, BEER & SNACKS BEER SPECIAL EACH WEEK-END 
LOCK NORTH OF STATE LINE ON U.S. 31 
jujl1n11111_il11 
m 
I 
.If rou w•nt the re•l thing, not frozen or 
c•nned ... We c•lllt 
"Mexlc•n Food 
Supreme." 
Dallu location: 
,071 Northweet Hwr 
112-1170 

Hall Presidents Council, said that he had talked with Ryan and that they had reached an understanding to work together and not to overlap their efforts. 
Russell pointed to a distinction between the emphasis of Ryan's work and that of the Hall Pres­ident's Council. "John deals more with extra-hall security problems," he said, "while the HPC is more concerned with security in the halls." He cited the recent incidents in Farley Hall as prob­)ems that directly concerned the HPC. 
An informal group of hall pres­idents consisting of the presidents ofthe women's dorms and St. Ed.'s President Mike Roohan is trying to initiate a letter-writing campaign within the women's halls to the Board of Trustees. The purpose of the campaign is to make the Board more aware of security problems on campus. 
Notre Dame, apparently, is not the only midwestern university that has been improving its campus security. A recent article in the IndlanapoUs Star reported that Indiana University has begun self defense instruction, the installation of door peepholes, and a poster campaign to cut down on the number of rapes on campus. 
Mardi Gras plans progressing well 
by Bill Delaney 

Preparations for Mardi Gras are "coming along well," reports Dan Malloy, coordinator for this year's festival. 
"We start building the Saturday after break, so it's important that everyone is ready to go," Malloy continued. "The main thing that we're pushing now is raffle ticket sales. The most important time for ticket sales is over Christmas break, so we're asking students to take them home and make a real effort to sell them," he added. 
The Mardi Gras Committee is presently scheduling entertain­ment," Malloy explained; "we're going to have a jazz band, a dixie land band and a rock band on different nights to give Mardi Gras a festive atmosphere." 
The annual event, which raised money for Notre Dame charities, will be held Februarv 3-11. The proceeds, according· to Malloy, help support organizations such as CILA, the Neighborhood Study Help program and a number of local day care centers. 
"Mardi Gras functions is to raise money for ch.1rity," Malloy said, "and the major part of that money comes from raffle ticket sales, so it's the students who will make Mardi Gras a success.'' · 
"The Grand Prize in the raffle is a 1978 Cutlas Supreme,'' he added, "and all students who sell a full book enter the seller's contest for a Ford Pinto as well as receive a free admissi~ pass.'' 
On Campus Next Week 
monday, december 12 
10 a.m. ­4 p.m. 
4 p.m. 
6:30p.m. 
7:20 p.m. 
7:30p.m. 

art sale, student ceramic art sale. sponsored by art. dept. great hall, o'shaugnessy. 
civilisation film series -"the fallacies of hope" carroll hall, smc. 
basketball, smc vs tri-state. angela athletic facility 
duplicate bridge -ladies of nd, faculty and staff duplicate bridge, university club. 
nd-smc theatre, evening of theatre. five different one-act plays. sponsored by nd-smc theatre and director 1 class. washington hall. no charge. 
tuesday, december 13 
10 a.m. 
4 p.m. 
12 noon 
1:15 p.m. 
4:30 p.m. 
7:30p.m. 
7:30 p.m. 
8:15 p.m. 10 p.m. 

art sale, student ceramic art sale. great hall-o'shag. 
brown bag lunch, nd chorale will perform. art gallery. 
social science, "introduction to interviewing techni­ques," bonnie katz. sponsored by social science training and research lab. 509 mem. library. 
lecture , "mechanisms of acupuncture for analge­sia," dr. samuel h.h. chan, ind. state. univ. 278 galvin aud. 
basketball, harlem globetrotters. $6.50, 5 and 3.50. discount of $1 to nd-smc fac, staff and students. ace. 
eucharist, charismatic eucharist, log chapel, open to all. 
recital, chamber class recital. sponsored by music dept. crowley recital hall. 
concert, nd glee club christmas sing. sponsored by music dept. sacred heart church. 
wednesday, december 14 
last class day -nd/smc 

10 a.m. · art sale, student ceramic art sale. great hall/art 
4 p.m. gallery. 

3:30p.m. seminar, "green's functions; must they obey the law of nature?" prof. john f. williams, cambridge univ. sponsored by aerospace and engr. depts. 303 engr. bldg. open to public 
4 p.m. civilisation film series, "heroic materialism," carroll hall smc. thursda)', december 15 3 p.m. meeting, college of arts and letters faculty meeting, cce aud. 
4 p.m. seminar, "theoretical studies of outer-sphere elect­ron exchange reactions: the aqueous fe. plus 2 -fe plus 3 system," dr. marshall d. newton, brookhaven natl' lab. sponsored by rad. lab. conf. rm. radiation lab. 
7:30 p.m. concert, st. joseph hs christmas choral concert. o'laughlin a·ud. admission free. friday, december 16 
4 p.m. lecture, "pastoral care and the elderly," fr. henri nouwne, yale diviniy school. sponsored by mental health outreach program for the elderly. lib. aud. 
Fa~ulty protest signature rule 
By Lou Severino 

A new requirement that 'students administering course evaluations verify that no one tampered with the forms has met with resentment from some faculty members. 
Students who collect the forms and deliver them for processing are required to sign a statement on the envelope containing the forms which declares, ·"I certify that I administered and delivered · the teacher course evaluation and that they have remained in my sole possession up till now.'' 
"It seems strange for the student to have to attest to the faculty's honesty," noted Paul Conway, chairman of the Faculty Senate. 
However, according to Charles McCollester, coordinator of Analy­tical Studi~s. which produces the . evaluations, the reqUlrement for a signature was added because ''in the past in some cases the students weren't administering the evalua­tions." 
Dr. William Burke, assistant to the provost, who issued the directive, remarked that the new requirement was part of a "speeding-up process." 
"We felt that by requiring a student to sign, we would instill a certain responsibility in him to return the forms to the Library as soon as possible. In the past students would procrastinate and a mix-up in the evaluations would result," explained Burke. He labeled the controversy, "a mis­understanding. We'rr: only trying to protect confidem;ality," he stated. 
As a result of faculty protest, the requirement of a student signature will be dropped beginning next semester. 
Conway in response to this decision said, "I think it was necessary and I am glad they are doing away with it.'' Conway also announced that a faculty member who wrote a letter to the provost expressing his indignity has received a Jetter of apology. 
Choral Group to perform Christmas songs 
David Isele and the Notre Dame Choral Group will perform Christ­mas selections at the Art Gallery's December Brown Bag Lunch, Tuesday, Dec. 13, at noon. 
The public is invited to brins sandwiches and attend this event in the Art Gallery in O'Shaughnessy Hall. Beverages and additional refreshments will be served. No admission will be charged. 


Nowcomes Miller time. 

-----~-~ ­
----~ 
Friday, December 9, 1977
1O..____Jtu.Jhl3Ee .,bserver
.&..1 

Sadat blasts 'stupid dwarfs' 
CAIRO [AP] -President Anwar Sadat, to thunderous approval from hundreds of thousands of his countrymen, promised •peace and blasted his Arab detractors as "stupid dwarfs" yesterday in his bitterest counterattack yet in the war of words between Arab hawks and doves. 
Shortly after the rousing, nation­alistic speech to an estimated 350,000 Egyptians in the heart of Cairo, Sadat went into talks here with Jordan's King Hussein, who is trying to mediate the Arab dispute over Sadat's direct peace initiative with Israel. 
Meanwhile, Sadat's chief antag­onist in that dispute, Syrian President Hafez Assad, was in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, meeting with King Khaled and other Saudi leaders in an effort to win their backing in his campaign against the Egyptian. 
Oil-rich Saudi Arabia is impoverished Egypt's main source of financial aid, so Sadat needs at least Saudi neutrality as he pursues' his one-man peacemaking. 
"Did not theo;e stupid and 

ignorant dwarfs hear what I said in 
Israel?" Sadat, speaking from a 
balcony of Abdin Palace, asked the 
cheering crowds before him in 
Republic Square. 
He was referring to his speech to 

the Israeli Parliament last month, 
when he demanded that all 
occupied Arab land be returned 
and a Palestinian state created. 
"We want peace based on justice, but we do not want peace at any price," Sadat declared, striking back at critics who accuse him of betraying the Arab people. 
In related developments yester­day: -Preparations continued for 
next Wednesday's Cairo peace 
talks between Israel and Egypt, 
with the United States and United 
Nations also represented. Israeli 
officials denied reports there had 
been secret high-level meetings 
between the two governments 
since Sadat's Nov. 19-21 Israel trip 
but said such unpublicized meet­
ings could take place during the ' Cairo t a I k s. -More than 100 Palestinians from the Israeli-occupied West Bank of 
the Jordan River and the Gaza Strip said they plan to go to Cairo next week to show their support for Sadat. But other West Bank leaders criticized the move, saying it could split Palestinian ranks. -In three Egyptian cities outside ' Cairo, conliulates and cultural centers of the Soviet Union and four other East bloc nations closed their doors and their staffs preplj.red to leave the country. Sadat, who claims Moscow fomented the Arab split, ordered the facilities closed. -At a U.N. truce observer post on the Sinai peninsula, Egyptian troops returned to Israeli hands the bodies of three soldiers killed in the 1973 Arab-Israeli war. It was a further display of the thaw in 
relations  between  the  two  
countries  
Syria, Libya,  Algeria,  South  

Yamen, Iraq and the Palestinian guerrillas attended a summit meet­ing in Libya last week called to plan 
a front to foil Sadat's peace moves. The Egyptian leader reacted by severing his country's diplomatic ties with the five nations. 
Concern over shrines grows as pollution worsens decay 
ATHENS, Greece -An internation­al conference of archeologists was told yesterday that ''worldwide last-hour support" is needed to rescue the shrines of Acropolis hill from the ravages of time and polltuion. 
"Whatever must be done to save these priceless treasures must be done now, with no further delay," said Greek Culture minister George Plythas in a speech opening the three day conference. It is sponsor­ed bv Greece and UNESCO, which in ~Januray began a world-wide appeal for $30 million to rescue the 2,600 year-old antiquities overlook-· ing Athens. 
''These monuments, ... almost unparalleled in the world today, now stand sick and ill-protected,'' Plythas !i:!id. 
"Fires·, bombardments, incor­rect restoration work and the passing of centuries have all left their mark. We are in fact calling for worldwide last hour support to save one of the foremost shrines to the world's present civilization." 

Attending the symposium are 100 experts from 10 countries, including the United' States, West­ern and Eastern European nations. 
Restoration efforts began two years ago after UNESCO, the U.N. Educational Scientific and Cultural Organization, issued a report on the condition of the Acropolis temples. They are largely the work of Phidias, a sculpter of the 5th century B.C., the golden age of Pericles at the height of Athenian power. 
The report said modern atmos­pheric pollution that wears away the shrines' marble surface has caused more damage over the past 40 years than that of the previous 

MEN'S 
HAIR 
STYLING By Ktrt. .Ctl't'UJ 
are pleased to announce Mr. Larry has 10i ned the staff of The Knights. Expertly 
ined in men's hair styling, he invites all friends & customers to 
VISilhlm. 
$

100 
OFF 

ANY SERVICE (WITH THIS AD) WITH MR. LAR~Y ONLY 
T'"'-ICKigkt'G 
54533 Terrace Lane 

272-8471 or 
Lower level Tues. & Wed. 
277-1691 
Thurs. & Fri. Sat. 

four centuries. 
The report said underground 
cratks and water, earth movements 
, wars and looting were other 
causes of decay. It said bad 
restoration work in the early 1900's 
also took its toll, when metal 
supports were installed that con­
tracted and expanded with temper­
ature changes and damaged the 
marble. 
Protective bans already are in 
effect on overflying· aircraft, park­
ing by cars and tourist buses and 
walking inside the temples. Near­
by apartment blocks are barred 
from using normal heating fuel, as 
well. 
Nearly three million persons visit the "holy rock" every year, their shoe heels alone listed as a key cause of attrition. One fund raising device has been to double the price of entry this year to about $1.50. 
Bryttan to guest 
as symphony 
violin soloist 

Adrian Bryttan, assistant profes­sor of music at Notre Dame will be guest violin soloist with Elkhart Symphony at 4 p.m. Sunday in the Concord Performing Arts Center, Elkhart. Bryttan, who is the conductor of the Notre Dame Orchestra, will perform Lalo's "Symphonie Espagnole." Anyone requesting ticket information may call 1-293-1087. 
The Elkhart Symphony cele­brates its 30th anniversary with Sunday's concert. The program will include Schubert's "Unfinish­ed Symphony" and the winning entry of the Elkhart Symphony's 1977 Compos'ttion Competition, the "Fourth Symphony" of Chicago composer Leon Stein. 
Christmas at_ N·D 
... a domeful of services 
The following is the schedule for University services over Christmas break: 
Notre Dame: 

Huddle-Will be closed Dec. 23-27, Dec. 31-Jan. l. 
. 
Exam Week: 

Dec. 15 -Closes 4:00 a.m. -opens 7:00 a.m. 
Dec. 16 -Closes 4:00 a.m. -opens 7:00 a.m. 
Dec. 17 -Closes 4:00 a.m. -opens 7:00 a.m. (Sun) Dec. 18-Closes 1:30 a.m. -opens noon Dec. 19-Closes 4:00a.m. -opens 7:00a.m. Dec. 20 -4:00 a.m. -opens 7:00 a.m. Dec. 21 -Closes 4:00 a.m. -opens 7:00 a.m. Dec. 22 -Closes 7:00 p.m. (Wed) Dec. 28 -Opens 8:00 a.m. -closes ~:~ p.m. Dec. 29 -Opens 8:00 a.m. -closes 4:UU p.m. 
Dec. 30 -Opens 8:00 a.m. -closes 4:00 p.m. Jan. 2 CLOSED Jan. 3 -Opens 8:00 a.m. -closes 4:00p.m. Jan. 4 -Opens 8:00 a.m. -closes 4:00 p.m. 
Jan. 5 -Opens 8:00 a.m. -closes 4:00 p.m. 
Jan. 6 -Opens 8:00 a.m. -closes 4:00 p.m. Jan. 7-8 -CLOSED Jan. 9 -Opens 8:00 a.m. -closes 4:00 p.m. Jan. 10 -Opens 8:00 a.m. -closes 4:00 p.m. Jan. 11 -Opens 8:00a.m. -closes 4:00p.m. Jan. 12 -Opens 8:00 a.m. -closes 4:00 p.m. Jan. 13 -Opens 8:00 a.m. -closes 4:00 p.m. Jan. 14 -CLOSED Jan. 15 -CLOSED 
Jan. 16 -r~gular hours 

Pay Cafeteria -Will be closed Dec. 25, 26, 31, Jan. l. 
Hours will be 9-6:30. Regular hours resume Jan. 16. 
Rockne Memorial -Will be closed Dec. 23-27, Jan. 1,2,8,15. Hours will be 8-5. The pool will be open from 2-4. 
Dorms -Will be closed at noon on Dec. 22, and reopen on Sunday, Jan. 15. 
A.C.C.-Will be closed Dec. 23-26, Jan. 1-2. Hours will be weekdays 8-5 and Sundays 1-5. 
laundry -Will run on its usual schedule. 
Ubrary -Will be closed Dec. 24-26, Jan. 1-2. Only the tower will be open on Dec. 23,27,31. Hours will be 8-10 on week days and 1-10 Sunday. The first two floors will be op~n on all other days except when the whole library is closed. Hours for the first two floors will be 8-5. The Library will resume regular service on Jan. 17. 
North Dining Hall -Last meal will be lunch on Dec. 22. First meal back will be dinner on Jan. 15. 
Soutb Dining Hall -Last meal will be dinner on Dec. 22. First meal back will be dinner on Jan. 15. North Quad residents will eat dinner on the 22 at the South Dining Hall. 
St. Mary's 

Dining Hall -Last meal is lunch on Dec. 23. First meal back is Dinner on Jan. 15. 
Dorms-Close 6 p.m. on Dec. 22. Reopen at noon Jan. 15. 
-. ··~ 
Yale considers

·FRANK'S PLACE. IJ 

,. 
summer term
4r~c? I

Restaurant & ~ounge 
[NOCR] -A mandatory summer term is being considered by Yale as a way of improving the university's financial situation. Students would 
, be required to spend one such term in residence while being permitted an absence during a fall or spring 
327 W. Marion St. South Bend , Ind.· 
Phone 232-2277 
term. The plan has been proposed as a way of maximizing use of existing university facilities. Op­
visit our package liqVJor store 
ponents argue however that it would discourage the better stu­
Open daily 11 am to 12 pm 

dents from entering Yale. Said College Dean of Horace Taft, "If
~·· Fri and Sat. until1 am 
you lose the good students, you're dead anyway, money or not." 
Friday, December 9, 1977 
the observer 11 

Federal judge rules: 
'The Gov't owns 'em, Henry!' 
optmon that is likely to -be deeded tne1u early last year to theWASHINGTON [AP) -A federal appealed. United States, in custody of thejudge ruled yesterday that the From the beginning of the Nixon Library of Congress. 
government, not Henry A. Kis­administration in 1968 until Nov­Under terms of the deed, publicsinger, owns the transcripts of his ember 1975, Smith noted, Kis­access is restricted to Kissinger. telephone conversations while he singer's secretaries both at the and his appointees for 25 years or was a national se~rity adviser and White House and the State Depart­until five years after his death,secretary of state. 
ment took shorthand notes while whichever comes later. 
"The court further finds that the listening to his telephone conver­The Reporters Committee for records were wrongfully removed sations, transcribing them later. Freedom of the Press, the Amer­and should be returned to the State The department's legal adviser ican Historical Association and Department,'' U.S.District Judge said later that th•e note were other groups, authors and journal­John Lewis Smith, Jr. said in an personal papers a1~d Kissinger ists sued for access under the 
Freedom of Information Act. They contended that the public had the right to see them. 
Jack Landau, executive director
Sleep cheap at hoste1rs 
of the reporters committee, called today's decision "a major victory American Youth Hostels, Inc., bership passes, holltored at all for the whole principle of the act." 
America's oJdest, non-profit, 4,500 hostels worldwide are: Junior "Documents amassed by gov­hiking, bicycling and outdoor recre­(17 years and under)--SS; and ernment officials, no matter how ational organization, has announ­Senior (18 and over)···Sll. exalted their office, belong to the ced that a record number of college While many people associate people," Landau said. 
students used hostels hosteling with summer trips to The Carter administration had 
while traveling in the United States Europe, hosteling is flourishing in opposed the attempt to have the 
and Europe this past summer. the United States and is a year­Kissinger documents released. 
AYH is a member of the Interna­round activity. Of the more than The Justice Department arguedtional Youth Hostel Federation 200 hostel facilities chartered by that the Freedom of Information comprised of 50 countries that AYH, 25 are listed as sld hostels. 
Act applied only to agency data and collectively operate more than Cross-country ski. enthusiasts that once documents are removed 4,500 hostels (simple, dormitory­flock to the Blue Lake Youth Hostel they cannot be the target of a style places' to stay) worldwide, in Kalkaska, MI whe1re AYH mem­lawsuit bv private citizens. 
where travelers pay $2.00-$3.00 a bers can stay overni1ght for $3.25. night. Other excellent cros;s-country ski But Judge Smith ruled: "The 
AYH said many membership hostels are located in Littleton, records in dispute here were pro­requests are delayed because so MA, Rochester, VT, Cable, WI, duced not only in accordance with many travelers waited to apply in and Crested Butte, CO. department regulations but also on 
Spring jus! before they departed on For free general inform.ation and government time and with the aid their trips. To avoid delays, AYH a list of ski hostels write to Bob of department employees, equip­suggests applying immediately for Johnson, Hostel Department, Am­ment, materials and other public the 1978 membership, which is erican Youth Hostds, Delplane, resources. good until December 1978. Mem-Virginia 22025. 

50 YOU'RE GOIDG TO THE conan BOWL! 
WHO CARES? 
(Arlington doe!t, that's who) 
Arlington ... a quick 25-minute driving time to the Cotton Bowl via turnpike. 
Arlington ... offering 2,709 guest rooms from a selection of 27 hotels/motels. Free parking at each facility. 
Arlington ... offering fun filled times before and after Cotton Bowl activities (which begin with a 9 AM parade in Dallas) with shopping malls, theatres, icE! skating and nearby attractions. 
Arlington ... inviting you to experience our many quality . restaurants and night life. 
Arlington ... for the good times! 
Transportation to Cotton Buses depart for Cotton Bowl provided by Texas Bowl between 10:45 & Motor Coach from Six 11 :30 A.M. $3.00 round Flags Mall. trip per person. 
Arlinaton Conventio1r1 & Visitors Bureau 
Box A • Arlington, Texas "76010 •AIC 817 265-7721 
Call us for reservation information. 
; 


Available in Black and White or full colc.r. 

An outstanding naw limited edition art print by AI Hollenbeck is now completed, capturing the majestic golden dome and important buildings of Notre Dame University into a beautiful montage. 
$7.50 to $68.00 
Just ONE of the many beautiful items in our shoppe. ~ 

1405 SCOTISDALE MALL • SOUTH BEND. IND. 46612 
10% OFF TO SMC-NO STUDENTS w/ID 
Ir---------------~•
-~~ FREE _j~·
ls:rBo ,CAR 4·.,.."-·•
1 •1~ SH § I
I WA ~ .I I Get Rid of Salt I
I 1
and Chemicals I FREE with this I 
1-·
•------coupon------1 I 
I I I FREE otter I
I Dkk~· I I CAR expires I I Standard I I WASH d~(· '~ I
I I
I 1102 So. Bend ~'-~-e. i 
!II!IP.~~--IIII!WWWMli!I'"""''·',_W•.,...... . ;. . . -~ 
• 

P.O. BOX Q 
~ '~~ )L_::at" ,. ·"--·'
-~ ~~~,..-..~-·--.~ ~;-~·-.'\r\.-:.;.'1~. ..•,-1\o--l:
liav sev toeu to nerp Bowl t•ICkefs .improve s~dent assembl~, but 
under no CirCUmstances will any· action be taken until student repIy assembly members have an oppor­tunity to voice their concerns and ideas, and only after every possibi­Dear Edltor1 lity for student assembly improve­ment has been thoroughly discuss­
This letter is in reference to the ed. The 1ancient Greeks had a very editorial in Thursday's paper good philosophy: "All men make entitled "SSSSTicketsSSSS". I am mistakes, but '-good man yields sure that the article was written when he knows his course is wrong with good intentions, however, it and repairs the evil. The only sin is came off as a knock against pride." I hope I can live and learn unknownmembersbf the senior and by this philosophy in my further junior classes. I would be among actions. the first to agree that there should have been more tickets allotted to Mary M. Rukavlua the students, but I would not blame President St. Mary!• student body the seniors and some of the juniors because 100 juniors did not get tickets. Also, I fail to see how you can say there are "probably at least 100 sophomores and freshmen who More on the will go to the Cotton Bowl in their stead, "their" being the 100 juniors and graduate students on the waiting list. It would be foolish 
Security crisis 
I of me to say that no seniors or
I 
~ juniors bought tickets for under· ~ classmen, but I don't see how you can say that underclassmen should 
Dear Edltorl
not go if the juniors did not get a chance. 

Because We Love You 
The fact of the matter is there I am writing this letter to save 
was not a sufficient number of Mike Roohan and Nanci Kelly some tickets allotted for students. 
embarrassment when the letters 
concerning Notre Dame Security As we close out another semester of Darby's Place Proprietor Darby O'Gill--a
Unjustifiably putting the blame on 

those who were fortunate enough reach the Board of Trustees. For publication, The Observer would like to female cocker spaniel to chase instead of to get tickets is not an answer to the their information, all Notre Dame extend special thanks to all of the people leaves. Security personnel carry walkie­
problem. who work so hard making news for us to 
talkies at all times and I would 
print. Some were bom for notoriety Notre Dame Groudskeepers--a hearing
Fred Kanzlnger further add that if a person cannot 
through no fault of their own, some have and an election before they all reach
aa..of1978 remember a four-digit number 
beginning with the number eight achieved it by virtue of their vision or retirement. followed by three sixes, one would absurdity, and some have had notoriety have to wonder how this individual thrust upon them despite their "no 
Campus Ministry Director Fr. WDllamAn apology could pass even the easiest exam. comments" and frequent trips to the land Toohey--John Denver's role in the sequel
I would urge Mr. Roohan and 

of incommunicado. 
Miss Kelly to get adequate, sub­to Ob, God! entitled Oh, What?
We wish all of these people a very MeiTY
stantial, or at least correct informa­
Christmas and a temporary respite from
tion when they intend to implement Dear Edltor1 
a program of reform. publicity. Following is our individualized Campus IJfe CouncD--some female student Christmas list for all our Observer friends: members.
This is an open letter to the St. 
Thomas E. Brennan N.D. Law '79 

Mary's communty: In regard to the article in The University President Fr. Theodore Hes· ND SBP Dave Bender--a place to store the 0Merver's Dec. 2 issue concerning burgh--a new banquet speech. old SBP's furniture. 
Editor's Note: The female security my ideas for restructuring student guards posted In the women's halls assembly, I feel I made a grievous 
at night do not carry wallde-talldes. St. Mary's President Dr. John Duggan--a The ND Student Bpdy--an invitation to sit
mistake by not consulting student 

In the Instance of the Farley new library and a place to put it. on the SBP' s couch
assembly of (sic) my intentions Intruder two weeks ago, the secur­

first. For that, I owe each and every member of the student Ity office was unable to contact the Fonner University Provost Fr. James SMC SBP Mary Rukavina--her picture on 
guard In Farley, who was maldng
assembly an apology. I feel I have Burtchaell--the last laugh. the front page.
her rounds and unreachable by I 
neglected certain aspects of stu­The SMC Student Body--new parietals. 

dent government and student assembly in particular. I take full responsibility for the lack of activity concerning student assembly and, after discussion with various mem­bers of the community, I realize student assembly can be an inte­gral part of student government,-­but only under effective leadership. 

phone. 


*The Observer 
Jn independPnl student newspJper serving notre ddmt• o~nd !>I. m.~ry·., 
The Observer 1s published by students of·the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College It does not necessarily reflect the policit'S of either institution The news is reported as accurately and as obwctively as possible Edrtorrals represent the opin1on of a matority of the Ed1torial Board. Commentaries. opmions and letters are the view'> of their o~uthors. Column spdce is· avarlable to all members of the communrty and letters. are encouraged to promote the free e>.prt·~~ion uf varying opinions on campus 
EDITORrAL BOARD 
Mart1 Hogan Erlitor-rn-Chiet Martha Fanning Managing Editor Bob Brink Ass! Managing Eg Kathy Mill~ Executive Erlitor Maureen Flynn Editorral Edrtor B.vb Brertt>n~tetn E:~~ec. News f_ ditor )Pan PowiP\ St MM·, c, f:ditor Katre Kerwrn !'-·~w~ E,ditor Barb Langhl'nry N _.....,·s [drtor Paul Stevt>n~on Sports F: drtor Pat Colt> Special Ptojett' r d Tony Pace FE'..~tur('S Ed1~or 
Friday, December 9, 19n 


Acting University Provost Fr. Ferdinand Brown--lots of sympathy and a replace­HPC President J.P. Russell--a fifth of ment. alcohol to drink responsibly. 
Provost Search Committee--some qualified Student Union Director Tom Gryp--a 
candidates who don't want to be president. picture that doesn't "Make (him) look like 
a gay" (See, we lis~n, Tom!). Dean of Student AHairs Dr. Kathleen I Rice--a sweatshirt with her name on it, to Student Union Social Commissioner Orest distinguish her from the students. Deychaklwsky--see "Bro. Just" above. 
I 

Dean of Student James Roemer-·an Senior Class OHlcen--six hours in the inflammable plastic Christmas tree. Michiana Regional Airport. 
Notre Dame Gay ADlance--one dollar for St. Mary's Registrar Sr. Francesca Ken­every empty seat. at Anita Bryant'snedy--Red Cross Award for service in the 
concert.

field. canon Hall Residents--a commuter train
VIce-President for Student AHairs Bro. 
to campus.

Just Paczesny--a solemn promise. to spell at least one of his names right -in every 
BD1 MClean--a diploma and a job--far away Observer article. 
. from South Bend. ' 
. Director of the Career Development Center LaFortune Manager Bro. Francis Gordl,Karen O'NeD--a successful eareer in career Observer Administrative Aulstant Cell development. 
Popovich and the Handicapped and Out-of· Shape of ND-SMC--an elevator in LaFor­Notre Dame 11cket Manager Mike Busick-­
tune. 

more tickets and /or fewer alumni. 
An Tostal Chairman John Rooney --three tests during Ali Tostal. 
Securlty--"Eyes that see and ears that hear'' plus better lighting by which to see. 
, 
SAGA--a student body of Orthodox Jews or 
93 more ways to prepare pork. 
fte Unlvenlty Chaplala Fr. Robert Grlf. fin--a mash note from Carol Channing. 


HPC and 
comps 
Dear Editor: 
I wish to respond to the com­ments of Student Union director Tom Gryp in regards to the "hypocrisy" of the recommenda­tion of the Hall President's Council that the Student Union review and change its current complimentary ticket policy for concerts. Mr. Gryp apparently feels that it was hypo­critical for the HPC to have accepted the complimentary tickets it is granted under the Student Union distribution process and then to have proposed that the policy be discontinued. 
Several things need to be made clear in this regard. The Student Union distribution process, part of the comp ticket policy, allots two pairs of tickets to the HPC Chair­man for each concert co-promoted by the Student Union, and the HPC did accept these comp tickets for the Crosby, Stills & Nash, Hall & Oates, and Steve Miller Band concerts. Because the HPC chair­man, J.P. Russell, was aware of the implications of the policy, he was personally opposed to it, but did not wish to penalize the hall presidents because_ of his own feelings. Therefore, ih_e two pairs of tickets for each concert alloted to 
Campus Comics 
As a special almost-exam-day treat, 
The Observer 
presents 'Ia creme' of.the campus cartoon talent, regularly (or as regularly as most things) 
printed in 
The Observer. 

the HPC were distributed by a lottery. The participants in this lottery were all those hall presi­dents who wished to have a chance for the pairs of comp tickets. Several hall presidents, as well as the chairman, declined entering their names in this lottery. 
In addition, it must be made clear that a majority of the hall presidents were :not aware of the· procedures by which the Student Union purchased these tickets, .which they then distributed as a 
· complementary courtesy to Student Union personnel and others so designated by the distribution process. Indeed, the HPC · Standard Review Committe,e, of which I am It member, was not selected until Oct. 4, and our first priority after being selected was to research the comp ticket policy. On the basis of our findings, which we presented to the HPC on Oct. 29, we proposed that the HPC no longer participated by accepting com1p tickets and also that we, as a body, recommend to the Student Union that they re­evaluate and discontinue this policy. the vote on tht: first part of this proposal (20 for, one against, one abstention), certail;tly demonstrates that the hall presidents when provided with full information about the nature of the policy, felt overwhelmingly that the HPC should have no part in the use of such tickets. In closing, I would like to express my personal disappointment in Mr. 
Gryp's decision to make his charges of hypocrisy in an Observ­er article, rather than voicing hs opinion at the Oct. 29 meeting, at which he was informed ahead of time by t.he Standard Review Committee, the Student Union comp ticket policy and our proposal were to be discussed. 
Theodore A. Howard Plesldent Holy Crou HaD 

Kisses in the Winter 
Dear Editor~ 
The ND-SMCjuniorclass officers and the members of the class of 1979 wish to express their thanks to Marnie Brehmer, Lynn Ewald, and Cathy Muta for their efforts in planning the Junior Formal. With over 800 people in attendance, the formal was an overwhelming success, thoroughly enjoyed by all. Without the dedication of these three, all of us would have missed the best formal sponsored by any class in recent years. 
Once again, many thanks for an 
excellent job. 
ND-SMC Junior Class Officers 
va:eH I wHIIT J<IAlb. -OF /SoPI£ FAT" CJHAISSE ? 

what do :t"lt t-hink Pr I 
do +ht·s for fun ?( hah.Jil 
i-t j_ aYIJth i"J but fZ<n-­tr,ymJ fo te m.pt ~ou. 
stuCients with :Joztr 
-:1-u.cleo-CkristiqTL 

"Jarald ... 
Nestle's 

and the WHC 
Dear Editor: 
A recent page-one Observer article onthe Nestle's baby formula controversy has engendered consi­derable confusion among readers, especially as regards the position of the World Hunger Coalition in this issue. So that people might pass their holidays peacefully and with­out confusion, we would like to make the following points: 
1. 
Researchers from such organi­zations as the United Nations and Consumer's Union have concluded that a "baby formula famine" is in progress. 

2. 
The World Hunger Coalition, perhaps in conjunction with the Student Government Committee for Social Justice and Interracial Affairs, will probably call for a boycott of Nestle, the principle malefactor in this controversy. 

3. 
The WHC will not call for a boycott at Notre Dame-St. Mary's until the facts are before the ND-SMC community. 


In this regard, we would mention that a three-part feature article on Nestle's involvement in the baby formula controversy has been on 
..sure 1:. c..an ger :5ou to pdrtJ occaston.allJ bzd t~af·s if/11 ?lothmg good has haJ>penec/ ~i17..ce ;he S'lt.ties/11 thiS JOb !$fl. t ti !Itt /e bit of ~eavfll. 
yott. kllowl!ll/ ·--. 
·--.. ·. 

file at '~'be-Observer for nearly a month. ·Its publication has been deferred in favorof , among other things, a thorough review of the Mid-'W e s t Blues Festival. The Hunger Coalition feature, when it is printed, should resolve much of the confusion that surrounds this issue. Happy Holidays. 
JlmCycaa Coordinator, wac Bob Jacoba Director, WBC 
Tnank you, Glee Club 

Dear Editor: 
This letter is addressed to the Notre Dame Glee Club: 
On behalf of all the McCandless Hall residents, we'd like to thank you very much for filling our dorm with your warm songs and good 
cheer . Your caroling at McCand­less is something that is looked forward to with great anticipation every year, and it's one part of the St. Mary's Christmas tradition we hope will always be carried on. 
McCandless wishes you a very Merry Christmas! II 
Teresita Valclhta Betsy Steltz 
~~~-_, ... """M 
by Pat . rnes 


r Friday, December 9, 197714 

letters to a lonely God ,
0 Christmas Tree, 0 Christmas T r e 
Reverend R bert Griffin 
I always feel bad for the Christmas trees that never get bought. Some Christmas trees. you figure, were planted and raised for the purpose of being bought. It might be better to leave them growing forever on some wooded acre; but forever was never promised them. Cllrl8tmu IIIOfDina was promised them. with lights and tinsel, and gifts underneath, and the Star of Bethle­hem ort top. Christmas trees, practically looked at, are a cash crop, a farmer's investment, grown to be sold in some vacant Jot. It is hateful to think of an evergreen, living and lovely, being hacked down, the axe biting deep into the anchoring roots; but Christmas, you hope. is the evergreen's fulfitlmet\l. For the brief hours of the Christma~ week. the ever­green symbolizes the hope of the season. It is Christ brought to our homes out of the winter cold, the beauty of its branches representing the grace-touched birth. It is a symbol furnished by the earth itself, conspiring with sun and rain: the lovely image of God's immortal life coming as God· s good gift among the bounty of living things. 
The Christmas tree that never gets . hought seems so terribly wasted, with no one to praise its beauty, with no one to whom it represents Christ. You think.: it should have been left in the woodland, keeping itself evergreen. with the wind singing ageless music to the sweetly scented boughs, a shelter to creatures fearing the killing cold of December. 
Last Christ'T!as. I befriended the Chrb1 
mas trees that were waiting to be sold in a parking lot on Sixth Avenue, across from the Greenwich .Village rectory where I was spending the holiday.· In lat~ November, thousands of these trees were unloaded from a truck that was the length of a city block.. Hundreds of the trees had been sold and taken home; but as Christmas drew closer. it was obvious that there would be many, many trees that would never be needed for anybody's Christmas cele­bration. I used to go over and vi~it the parking lot, to see the beautys that stood around like wallflowers at a mistletoe ball, huddled togeth~r by a rope tied to a pole that kept them upright. Each afternoon. the tree vendor would offer me deals that ranged from twenty-five dollars to twenty­five cents, depending on the size and shape of the spruce tree in question. I would always shake my head, saying no, I didn't need a tree for the front of my church. 
"Did you overstock't" I would ask, pretending a sympathy for him I didn't really feel. 
"It's the stulJid artificial jobs the people are buying," he said. "Up at Korvettes, they're selling aluminum trees for -six bucks." 
I wasn't sentimental enough to think that the unsold evergreens could hear what he was saying; but I felt bad at the waste of living trees cut down, then rejected, in favor of some stupid plastic bush. 
By Christmas morning. any tree in the lot could be grabbed up at the bargain orice of a dollar. I don't think the vendor 
The Year in Reuiew 
Film 

1977 was not a good year in film. By and large most of the product released was derivitive and uninteresting. The big success was of course Star Wars, an entertaining but unbelievably shallow film. 
It is hard to believe that people are so starved for entertainment that they are queing up to view this film as many as four or tive times. 
The reason American films were so lackluster this year was because executives in the film industry tried to cater to the public. The entertainment industry should have learned long ago that its audience is very fickle and attempting to make trendy movies is a risky venture at best. Ignoring this fact, the major studios blitzed the public .with shallow and derivitive films that owed their success to clever advertis­;ng that linked its product with other big hit films. Thus, The Deep, for example, one of the summer's biggest hits, used the same pictorial display employed in advertising Jaws. The Exorcist II aside from being billed as a sequal, promised that now voluptuous Linda Blair would really en­<:ounter problems with demons. Roller Coaster used Sensaround to take its audince for a ride. Yet despite heavy advertising like this, none of the films did as well as was hoped. 
Rocky spawned the inevitable number of · sports films, the most blatent imitations being One on One, the story of a college freshman who manages to score both on the court and off. Other sports films included: a sequal to the Bad News Bears; The Greatest, the story of Muhammed Ali's life; and just in time for the football season, Semi-Tough, a tedious Burt Rey­nold's vehicle. Only Slap Shot, a film about a finacially troubled minor league hockey team attempted to probe the underside of the sports world in an honest an entertaning manner. 
r Ambitious films by talented directors 
f 
L fared little better. Robert Altamn's Three Women was based on a dream he had had. The film only managed to show what an uneventful fantasy life the director has. Martin Scoreseattempted to follow up Taxi Driver with the ambitious but uneventfulI big band musical New York, New York. People stayed away. William Friedkin's 
~ fwst film since the Exorcist, Scorese had an intriguing title but a plagarised piot. It too failed at the box office. Only Richard i Brook's Looking For Mr. Goodbar has been / a critical and commercial success. 
With the exception of Star Wars and Goodbar the major hits of '77 were unimaginitive trash. The Other Side of Midnight one of the biggest hits of the summer featured wooden acting and an ' unbearably pretentious plot. Black Sunday was an interesting !film but entirely undeserving of the commercial rewards it J 
by dom salemi 
reaped at the box office. Smokey and the Bandit was another tired Burt Reynold's vehicle and Heroes, which boasted Henry Winkler's first major film role was a simple and unchallenging vehicle for such a talented actor. 
The one promising development in American film this year was the greater number of intelligent and intersting roles available to women. Jane Fonda, Vanessa Redgrave, Diane Ketaon, Geraldine Chap­lin, Sissy Spacek, and Shelley Duvall were cast in imaginitive films whose central characters were fascinating and complex individuals not exploitive stereotypes. 
The following were the ten best films released in 1977. Hopefully 1978 will be a better year and the American public will not be forced to rely on so many foreign films for intelligent entertainment. 
1) Annie Hall: Woody Allen's finest film. A gentle autobiographical comedy in which Allen exposes the intellectual as well as the endearing aspects of his personna. 
2) Star Wars: Mindless entertainment that is a sure bet to cop an oscar for best picture. Let's hope that R2D2 doesn't get the best actor award. 
3) Uose Encounters of the Third Kind: Stephen Spielberg's first film since Jaws. A stunning visual film about alien visitors from outer space. 
4) Casanova: Felini's brilliant study of a souless man has little to do with Casanova or reality for that matter. It is a powerful film nevertheless, one whose many start­ling images once seen, will haunt the viewer the rest of his life. 
5) Salo: Pier Palo Pssolini's final film. An agonized cry of despair and horror directed a~ainst contemporary society. '­
6) Slap Shot: A realistic look at the underbelly of American sport. Ostensibly a comedy vehicle for Paul Newman the film is unsparing in its•satiric treatment of an abiding national passion. 
7) 1900: Bernard Bertolucci's epic work, over three years in the making, featuring an international cast of stars headed by Ro\:lert DeNiro and Burt Lancaster. Prdblems have arisen over distribution rights due to Bertolucci's unwillingness to cut the five hour film but now is playing in New York and the reviews have been excellent. 
, 8) Short Eyes: Miquel Pinero's powerful prison drama has successfully survived the transition to the screen which is more than can be said for Equus. 
9) Pardon Mon Affalre:A wanncomedy about a middle aged married man whose libido gets the best of him. 
10) Em Brlest: Fassbinder's fascinating romantic study of 19th century manners. Should to expose the public to the German avant-grade community. 
made fifty dollars worth of sales all day. At midnight, he went home, leaving the remaining trees unguarded. Then it was that the stealing of unsold Christmas trees began, as, I suspect, the vendor knew it would. 
In New York City, there.are thousands of people -old people. teen-agers, children, winos, derelicts -that seem as unwanted (unless, indeed. they are wanted by each other) as the most unsold Christmas tree. Such people, having nothing, find a use for everything. In the course of that night, they found a use for those Christmas trees. All the hours of darkness , they visited the lot and ripped it off. Dozens of trees were dragged through the streets; some to be used, I suppose, simply as Christmas trees, brightening up shabby rooms, dressed up with a few ad hoc, impromptu decorations. Other trees were used for building a shelter against the winter night. for many street people in New York have no houses to live in. Other trees were taken simply because they were available: and if you were an interprising wino, you could never be sure when you could make a sale, for a dime or a quarter. to some sport who was belatedly celebrating a postponed holiday. 
The rush on the P!lrking lot continued until morning, when the police interrupted the thievery so they would not have to deal with the nuisance of trees abandoned on the sidewalks by looters who really dido 't · know what to do with the trees they had taken. 
Movies 
On both sides of the Atlantic culbs were SJ:.i!inging up in which it was de riguer to be seen in torn, faded jeans, ripped t-shirts, leather jackets, and jewelry, which con­sisted either of a safety pins or choke collars.. Girls sported crew-cuts and guys the "forked and chopped" look. Inside, groups with names like the Ramones, the Oash, the Damned, the Stranglers and the Dead Boys played short, 20 minute sets of violent and infectious rock and roll. Every night was a Dionysian celebration and if you were over twenty-five you'd better get the hell out of the way. Suddenly. in the summer of 1977 the kids were alright again and it was fantastic. "Punk rock" was in. 
In England, punk quickly became an anarchist movement with the Sex Pistols as the politi.cal leaders. They attempted ~o shock the establishment at every turn tn order to draw attention to the plight of the unemployed, uneducated youth. England was in dire economic straights and the kids wanted something done about it. 
Something was done and very quickly. The Pistols and most punk rock was· banned from the radio. This didn't faze the Pistols however. During the Queen's Silver Jubilee they released one ofthe most virulent singles ever recorded, "God Save the Queen." On the cover of the record was a picture of the Queen with a saftey pin through her nose and on the record Johnny Rotten, the lead singer shouted: 
God save the queen 
The fascist regime 
They made you a moron 
A potential H-bomb 
God save the queen 
She ain't no human being 
There is no future 
And England's dreaming The Pistols were consequently banned from performing in England and their record company dropped them shortly thereafter. 
It didn't matter. Other groups inspired by Rotten and company's example quickly took up the cause. "London's buring," chortled the Clash. "The media as watchdog is absolute s---1 The T.V. is telling you what to think," the Jam screamed. Punk had taken over England. 
Over in America Fleetwood Mac, the Eagles and Linda Rondstadt were selling truckloads of albums but "new wave" music as it came to be called, was making inroads. In New York the Ramones, Blondie, and other punk band w,·re playing to sold out clubs with record companies bidding furiously for their services. By the end of the summer more than fifteen of these bandsbad been inked to contracts. 
None of this would matter of course, except for the fact that the music on both Weeks later, here were a great number 
of fires in parks and varttnt lots. A dri~d 
out fir tree makls an excellent blaze if you 
are tryi!lg to e cape even for a moment 
from the dre ded chills of sub-zero 
January. 
On t.he mon•.:fg of December 27th, the parking Jot acr ~s the street was mostly empty of trees; ut a truck came for those remaining few, · nd they were carried off to the city dump. I can't imaginct what it feels like to be an unused Christmas tree. I may imagine that 
a tree has been left unfulfilled bl'causc it 
has never beett visited 'by Santa. but it 
would be silly to retend that the tree feels 
unfulfilled. But i a tree could feel -would it not be almost s fulfilling to give warmth or heat or sh~lte to children and old men. as it would be twinkle with tinsel likl' some stupid alu inurn bush sold over the cauter at Korvd es? 
When it com to fulfillment, I can never know what a t feels. but only what a man feels. 1· hink that never to fet>l fulfilled at all ould be like living in a world where C I'L'llas never happened. 
Merry Christ as. Darby and I never said we didn't lo e you. We never said we didn't feel ful lied in . having vou as friends. either. In New York, my phone number is 212· 41-1274. St. Joseph's Church, 371 Six:t Avenue, Manhattan. I would love to se vou there.
********i***********: 
sides of the Atlantic has been uniformly 
excellent. The music of the new wave has 
injected a note of humor and vitality into a 
scene that had grown somewhat stale and 
pretentious of late. In a year that saw no 
major releases ·from Led Zeppelin, the 
Who, Dylan, or Springsteen, and the 
deaths of Elvis Presley and Ronnie Van 
Zandt, punk or new wave rock admirably 
picked up the pieces. 
Here then are the ten best releases of 
1977: 

(1) 
Sex Pistols-Never Mind •••: Perhaps the greatest rock record ever made. This is passionate, angry music by a band that offers no compromises. For Rotten and company the world is sick and its going to get a lot sicker before it gets better so don't bother to sing about love, sing about the coming of the anti-Christ, anarchy, and vacant sods who get off to music like this. 

(2) 
Steely Dan -Aja: The reclusive Fagin and Becker's most fully realized work. An intriguing mix of jazz-funk and pop with brilliant if enigmatic lyrics. 

(3) 
Lynyrd Skynyrd -Street Survivors: Because of Van Zandt's death this will probably be the group's last lp. That's a shame because this was this Southern band's most compelling work. 

(4) 
Mink DeVille -Cabretta: Mink is a new wave band that mixes r & b, rock, and soul effortlessly .1 Their eponymous lead singer who also writes all the material is one of the most sweetly soulful singers around and when he rocks out the effects are devastating. A comer. 

(5) 
Bryan Ferry -In Your Mind: Former lead singer of Roxy Music (he was Roxy), first lp of original material. The songs and arrangements are brilliant, especially the imaginative use of strings. Ferry has the knack for making his bleak, romantic vision entertaining as well as disconcerting. 

(6) 
Fleetwood Mac-Rumours: The most striking and original practitioners of main­stream rock. Enough has been written about the personal problems that were brought to bear on this work but neverthe­less the fact that the group was able to fashion such a compelling Jp out of the morass of internal strife is amazing. 

(7) 
Iggy Pop • Idiot/Lust For Life: A celebration of survival by one of rock's most bizarre figures. Under the aegis of Bowie, Iggy has pulled himself together and returned to manic form. 

(8) 
Tom Waits -Foreign Affairs: The master of beat poetry and source of pride to down and outers everywhere is about to break big and this could be the lp to do it. Waits is such a talented writer that his romanticization of the seedy side of American life never seems to be maudlin or self-indulgent. 

(9) 
Television/Talking Heads: These two groups have been lumped together by critics as principle exponents of cerebral new wave music yet they are as different as night and day. Heads fashion quirky pop songs around bizarre arrangements while Television paints aural abstractions around loud, solid riffs. 

(10) 
Randy Newman • Little Criminals: One of America's most intelligent and inventive songwriters. This is his first lp in over three years and it was well worth the wait. 




Friday, December 9, 19n 
the observer 15 

SMC Career Counseling Center 
by honey mchugh 
Patricia Sweeney, a 1977 graduate of Saint Mary's College, was one of the first woman sales representatives to be hired by Otis Elevator Co. of Chicago, Ill. 
Four of her classmates were hired by 
U.S. Steel Corp. after graduating last May. They now hold positions in plant management. 
One liberal arts major who had no previous business experience landed an excellent job with the National Cash Register Corp. in New York. 
These students are a few of the many college graduates today who have recently entered the job market. Due to a thorough investigation of career opportunities, care­ful planning and proper guidance, they were able to secure a good job. The St. Mary's Gollege Career Development Cen­ter was available to aid them in their job search. 
Four years ago, Karen O'Neil, a 1971 graduate of St. Mary's, became director of the Center. The first thing she did was change the name from "placement office" to a "Career Development Center." 
"At a women's, private, liberal arts college, the students needed to learn more about career goals before they even got into an interview situation," O'Neil expla­ined. As a placement bureau, the office merely served as a meeting place for students and recruiters, she said. The students were more concerned about getting a job than developing their careers. 


Student Aide Mary Clark designs recruitment material.
After the name was changed, O'Neil initiated an eight part workshop series to provide students with skills necessary in tors. They conduct the programs in theentering the job market. As a philosophy CDC and in the residence halls during the major, O'Neil had found it difficult to get a late afternoon and early evening hours sojob that made use of her education. As she that students are able to adjust theirexplored career opportunities she acquired schedules accordingly. 

skills that she feels students can use in ·"I think the biggest benefit of thetheir own job. search. Many of these have workshops is getting students together tobeen incorporated into the workshop talk about their common experiences,"series. 

states Betsy Twitchell, CDC counselor and According to O'Neil, "The underlying workshop leader, "They learn a lot fromgoal of CDC programs and services is to each other."
promote the value and use of a liberal arts As a career counselor, Twitchell helpseducation in all areas of work and life, and students to process information that theyto create an awareness of this value in receive from these workshops and theirstudents, faculty, administration, parents, interview presentations. The role. of thealumnae and employers." 

counselor is to aid students in obtainingWithin six months after graduation, career information through the CDC Li­95% of all St. Mary's graduates are either brary and in applying their knowledge toemployed or in graduate school; last year sound career decisions."
38OJo of these students were placed The CDC also offers various programs 
-0through the CDC.By following certain 
throughoU1t the year geared toward careersteps and participating in specific pro­
selection and possible graduate study. prepared as man are to meet demands in 
before got job offers as a direct result of the grams, their job search was made easier 
These seminars get students who have the job market. It is difficult today for a 
CDC recruiting program," she added. 
and more productive. 

common interest andproblems together woman to be a professional as well as a 
No matter what goal the students have in Seniors are first instructed to register for 
with guest speakers and information that woman regardless of her skills and 
mind, theyt are encouraged to make use of the Recruiting program in order to be able will aid in their decision making. qualifications, she added. 
the services at the CDC. The programs areto interview on campus. They fill out a 
According to O'Neil, the CDC tries to be As sophomores, students should seek 
important not only to the students but topersonal profile form and obtain outside 
flexible and accomodating. Students who some volunteer or part time experience in a 
faculty members, alumnae, employers and recommendations for their file. 
want assistance need only ask for it. The field that interests them. In their junior parents as well.
Students then register for the Job Bank 

center works in conjunction with the year, O'Neil feels, students should partici­
"We are important to parents who wantin order to receive notices by mail of 
academic departments on campus to insure pate in the Summer Job program to 
to send their daughters to a good school ino current career opportunities. They also 
become acquainted with the CDC Library that stude:nts are being offered courses provide work experience. In senior year, order to acquire marketable skills,'' states 
that will be of value to them in their the information accumulated from this four 
O'Neil. "The purpose of the Center is towhich provides information on jobs avail­eventual careers. year process can be applied through the make students aware of all the opportuni­able to the different majors and companies that are presently hiring. Reference books "My main goal is to provide programs recruiting program. The representatives ties available to them, to help them narrow 
for stude1nts other than just business who interview on campus are promised doen their interests and help them prepare are on hand to provide an overview of 
majors, "O'Neil said, "I think the key is to that they will encounter students who are 
to ~nd a job in the future."
career information from all over the U.S. 

use other resources around the campus." well prepared and career oriented.
This year the library has been reorganized 

She further feels the need "to eliminate According to O'Neil, "Six recruitersso far 
and is now furnished with complete sets of 

existing barriers to the hiring of women this year said they have never interviewed
catalogues from medical schools, law 

and liberal: arts students by clarifying these students who were so well prepared for the 
schools and graduate programs. Student 

barriers and preparing students to encoun­interview. They expressed their impres­
aides and interns are always available to ter them." Women have not been geared sions in very explicit terms."

provide students with necessary assis­

. toward careers and therefore they aren't as "Last year more seniors than any year
tance. 
Perhaps the most important part of this process is the workshop series. This year marks the beginning of the second annual Career Workshop Program. Each semes­ter features eight ·workshops which are repeated four separate times. These seminars are open to all St. Mary's and Notre Dame students, seniors as well as underclassmen. The topics discussed include decision making, work values, skill identification, assertiveness training, in­terview skills and resume writing. 
•'The workshops are designed to teach life skills essential for successful career decision making and creative job seeking,'' states O'Neil, "They will help students 

On the whole, O'Neil stresses the need 
begin their career planning early and avoid for students of all calsses to consider their senior panic." 

ultimate career goals early and to striveThe workshops help students to learn toward their first ideal goal. By concentra­skills they can use in on campus interviews ting efforts toward one particular objective as well as in real life situations in the over a certain period of time, students arefuture. "We hope thattheylearn the skills more likely to meet with success.
that they need in order to place themselves "Above and beyond careers and jobs, Iwhen they graduate," remarked O'Neil. 

·feel students should consider the 'mean­The seminars are held in small groups of , ingful life experiences' they encounter,''approximately 20 students in order to remarked O'Neil. "Here at the Center weprovide individual attention. The work­offer an objective, non-biased, supportive, shop leaders are members of the Student encouraging atmosphere for students toAffairs staff, faculty, graduate school workout their problems and make deci­interns, Resident Advisors and Hall Direc­sions." 




r 16 the observer Friday, December 9, 1977 
r 
Seven Days In November 
A Freshman Prepares for His First Basketball Game 
Life has been a little different these past three months for num­ber 30, Tracy C. Jackson, freshman forward on Notre Dame's 1977-78 basketball squad. After making the trail to South Bend, Tracy found new things in life: a room­mate, college classes, friends from all parts of the country, football weekends, long night in the library and most importantly, college bas­ketball and Digger Phelps. 
For basketball, Tracy has been most anxious to make the transi­tion. He is another of a long tradition of stars from the Wash­ington, D.C. area to come to the ACC to play college basketball. He 
-~ ~-:fected "Metro Player of the 1 ca• ' by the Washington Post last year while being an all-league and all-county selection his sophomore, junior and senior season. He was a third team selection on the Parade Magazine All-America team with his freshmen teammates, Kelly Tripucka and Gilbert Salinas. At Paint Branch High School in Bur­tonville. Md.. he averaged 29.8 points and 15.6 rebounds per game and shot an incredible 61 percent in leadinll his team to a 24-3 record. 
Equipped with these skills and accomplishments, Tracy now had to prove himself as a college basketball player, a most appre­hensive task for any freshman athlete. What is it like to prepare for the first basketball game of your college career? Tracy recorded his thoughts of the week before his first home game during the regular season against the Mississippi Rebels. His observations provide an insight into what it is like to be a freshman in the world of college basketball: 
Monday, November 21 
Today's practice was cancelled, but all the freshmen basketball· players had to report to the ACC: for interviews with WNDU-TV Statton. 
It was pretty exciting-the reporter asked us questions about how we liked being at Notre Dame and about what it was like playing on 
the basketball team.  
After  the  interview,  I  got  a  
chance  to  watch  the  women's  
basketball team practice.  I noticed  

a familiar ·pattern in the way the girls are coached as compared to how we are coached. Most of our drills were being taught during their prl!,ctice. Quite interesting. Tuesday, No,·ember 22 
Today we start preparing for our first game against Mississippi. The second string ran most of the ~ississippi squad's offense. Later on, we watched the video tape of 

Looking for a special gift? 

m Ueea..., w.t 
fti.JSS9 

.. 
•• ..Hr 10 -I S1n 12 -6 
Shiff T-thlrts *3 Shiff Paptn S for 1 ..,., 

Mlohiaaa's seleoHon
10~ Dllooullt on T11111 T-shirts 

of paraphenaDal M tounauolse, leather & planll 10~ off Orlgl111l Paintings Reg *45-$55 We ellllom -make T-shlrll & undl• • lllf 11111111• 

,,,..,..)'<­
·*~· 
··«. ""'· 
~ 
, -~-i~:
.... 
the Russian game we playeo me and after dinner, we watched allother night. This was a chance to the football games that were onanalyze and key on our mistakes. 

T.V.
Coach Nee also gave us a complete scouting report on the Mississippi 
Frida), November 25
team. I'm not going to leave practice early today, though, I've 

Only one more day to go.
got to work on my foul shooting. 

Today's practice seemed to beWednesday, November 23 pretty hard. I guess it was tough for everyone to get back to workThis is the beginning of Thanks­since we all stuffed ourselves withgiving vacation, but we still have to turkey yesterday. Scouting reports practice at 2 p.m. this afternoon. 
of Mississippi were distributedOne of the interesting sights today among the team. Today was also was the T -shirt our manager was the first time the team ate together
wearing. On the front of it, the at the training table. Everyone was 

shirt revealed the score of the in a relaxed mood, especially Duck 

football game between Notre Dame Williams who seemed to keep us all 

and Mississippi. I think that was in good humor throughout thejust enough to get us ready for meal. 

Saturday. Saturday, November 26 Thursday, November 24 It's game day! The team 
Thanksgiving Day! We started attended Mass at Pangborn Hall . practice at 10:30 a.m. and we before the game. Dave Batton read 

finished sometime around 1 p.m. 

the scripture canon for the day. I 
All the freshmen players were really enjoyed the service, especial­

invited to eat Thanksgiving dinner ly since I had not found the time to 

at the alumni house. GilbertSalinas attend the ones in Fisher. After 

and Kelly Tripucka, my freshmen mass evc;ryone went to the dining

teammates, were not able to make hall to eat breakfast. Right before I 

it. My roommate, Stan Wilcox who left for the ACC, I watched a few 

plays guard and Orlando Wool­cartoons to stay relaxed before the 

ridge who also lives in Fisher Hall. 

game.
joined me for dinner. I enjoyed We beat Mississmpi 111 to 62. 

eating off-campus for a change. 

And I got into double figures my
The turkey dinner was excellent, first ame-I scored 12 oints. 
Jackson makes his way out to the arena for the first time with teammate and roommate Stan Wilcox. [Photos by john Calcutt] 

... 

jackson makes his presence on the court. The result: 12 points against the Rebels. 
~ 
After the game: enjoying the status of a college athlete. 
Sunday, November 27 ahead. Everyone played well, and Coach Phelps was pleased at the We won our first game! This balanced scoring ofthe team. I was morning I got up early to read really excited about my first college about yesterday's game in the game, and as soon as I got back to newspaper. I was really surprised my dorm I called back home to at the amount of time I got to play spread the news. If our first game 
in the game. This will certainly is any indication of our upcoming help me prepare for the season season, it should be a great one! 
~SAVE~SAVE~AVENYSAVE~SAVEY 
FOREIGN
~l
~~J!­

CAR PARTS CO.
REGIONAl DISTRIBUTOR 

before the snow flies give your car its 
tune -up now .!! 
make sure it starts this winter! 
Parts and Accessories for ALL Makes of Foreign Cars 
215 Dixie Way N. 
in Roseland-U.S. 31 N. -Vlblock N. from Pendle St. 
SOUTH BEND , IND. 46637 
CALL: 219 272-7187 
OPEN H:a.m.-6:00 p.m. MONDAY THRU SATURDA 
$$ $$ 
SPARK PLUGS ONLY 96$ EACH WITH THIS AD (reg $1.25) 




,­
Farmers dem1and more money for produce 
Friday, December 9, 1977 
the observer 17 
[AP) Farmers across the country began steering their tractors from farms onto interstate highways yesterday, rumbling toward state capitals where they plan rallies tomorrow to press demands for m<"lre money for their farm prodpcts 
The farmers, who say they expect thousands of tractors on city streets over the weekend, are seeking guarantees from the fede­ral government that they receive as much for grains, livestock and other food products as it costs to produce them. If the rallies don't bring results, they threaten a nationwide strike next Wednesday in which they will simply refuse to plant crops. 
The protests are organized by a group called American Agriculture, which claims one million members. 
"We're trying to get people to listen to our problems," said Bill Schroeder, one of the organizers of the tractorcade in Colorado. "If 

Use of video i11creases at ND 
The use of video in the teaching/ learning experience is rapidly on the increase at Notre Dame. 
Some examples of current usage are: 
The students of Albert LeMay, assistant professor of Modern Lan­guages, used video during a five­minute presentation in Spanish. The following week they play back the tape for self-evaluation and for feedback from the professor. Since each student is videotaped four times during the semester. the opportunity is present to observe improvement over a period of time. 
LeMay says he is convinced "that the use of television in general, and the video labs, in 
Student Affairs to sponsor book exchange 
St. Mary's Department of Stu­dent Affairs will sponsor a book exchange in January. Students wishing to sell their books should drop them off in the Regina North basement kitchen between Dec. 16 and 21 from 4 to 6 p.m., on Dec. 22 from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. or Jan. 16 from 8 to 10 p.m. 
The sale will take place in the 
kitchen Jan. 17 through 23 from 
5:30 to 9:30 p.m. 
Money and unsold books may be picked up on Jan. 24 from 5:30 to 9:3G-p.m. 
Christmas at ND 
There will be a Christmas party for those students who are not leaving campus during the after­noon of Christmas Day. The party will feature food, singing, dancing and companionship. 
The party will be on Helman Rd., north of the campus. Interested students should call Mrs. Pedtke at 272-2320. 
\ 
RESTAURANTE SCOTTSDALE MALL FREE!!! 
Soft drink ·with 3 items TACOS • eABY TACO 
• 
IIIRIJOS • TMALIS 

• 
EICIIUDAS • TACO DOC 

• 
TO$fADOS •.lEAl TACO 


• IARIEQ~E TACO 
• 
SPAIIISI lOT DOl 

• 
CIEISIBUICEI 


"We carry a line of 
egetarian Foods. 

anyone has e111ough interest to 
come out, we'll try to explain it to 
them. 
"I dont relish driving a tractor to 
Denver," said Schroeder, who 
farms about 2,000 acres of wheat 
and milo. "I'd rather stay home on 

the farm, but I vvant to get paid. 
"If our dema111ds aren't met, we 
won't plant our crops next year..... 
Until they pay me a price I can 
recover the cost of production plus 
a fair profit on, there's no sense in 
planting anymor<e. If I work I lose 
money. If I sit on my rear I lose 
money. What would you do?" 
The problem, ~•ay the farmers, is that they are losing money on the 
crops they produce. Retail food 
prices are rising, but most of the 
increase is going for marketing 
costs rather than to farmers. 
The farmers are expecting one of 
their biggest turnouts --some 
20,000 tractors in Georgia where 
two separate convoys moved along 
particular, have a great potential Secondly, Rube's students are in language teaming and teaching. videotaped during individual pres­The video labs , as I am using entations to obtain immediate feed­
them, offer all of the advantages of back. the language lab; for example, The Counseling Center uses quality sound reproduction, instant video in workshops to study com­playback and reusable tapes and munications and interpersonal cassettes. skills. Dr. P. Sheridan McCabe "In addition, videotape offers a­reports that "video is a marvelous nother dimension: that of the training tool. It lets people see picture. This is a great feature themselves as others see them." because the student sees himself as Priests are using this video others see him. This enables him to process to critique themselves, work in areas he doesn't get in the both while saying Mass and language lab. For example, the preaching. This experience, part of student can develop poise, confi­the program ·for the Institute for dence, and leams to project his Clergy Education directed by Fr. 
personality. The opposite usually · Robert Pelton, has proved an occurs in the 'confessional box' especially effective tool for continu­type language !alb." ing education in this field. 
John A. Ruhe, of the department of management in a course on Globetrotters business communications, uses video effectively in two ways. First, to performhe videotapes small group discus­sions. With immediate playback 
The Harlem Globetrotters will 
the students are able to observe perform at the ACC on Tuesday,behavior in group ac~ivities. 
Dec. 13, at 7:30 p.m. Tickets for 
For example, when one student's this event are $6, $5, and $3.50, 
response is not picked up by the ~ith a special youth discount of $1 group. or when someone dominates off the ticket price for those 16 and 
the group, these behaviors are under. 
noticeable on the videotape. Seeing Tickets may be purchased at the 
themselves, the group can react to ACC, Robertson's, First Bank's the dynamics on both a feeling and main office, St. Joseph Bank, and 
an intellectual level. 
the Elkhart Truth. 
Lm: 
up~ 

buy a xmas • tree lite • $.50 during meals SMC dining hall between Dec. 8-15 Bedeck the
SOME()NE 
tree with your own lite. Proceeds to go the Logan Center.
EL~)E'S 
LIFE 

CL~~USTROPHOBIC? 
call 

amptJs View Apartments 
t~oday for 2nd semester 
1&2 bedrooms available plus roommate replacements As lo'"' as s85 per . person (util. incl.) Call Gayle at 272-1441 H&IPPY Holida s! · 
the highwa.ys yesterday, picking up support in twos and threes as they moved. Some farmers said they would haul tarctors to Atlanta by flatbed truck. The tractorcades moved at around 16 mph. Passing traffic slowed to 40 mph despite efforts of state troopers to wave motorists on. 
Tommy Kersey, another organi­zer, called the protest "a move of sheer desperation." He said he hoped the protest "doesn't make too many people mad." He also said he hoped that "when they go home and think about it, they'll realize that the farmer has real problems." 
"We don't want the consumer to think we're out to starve anybody. They are our customers. But we want them to get hungry a little bit," Kersey said. "The consum­er's on one-end and we are on the other ' and we are both being ripped-off, and we ought to get a 
little relief in the middle." The Department of Agriculture ·says prices paid to farmers for their products were four percent higher on November 15 than a year earlier, but the USDA's index of what it costs to produce the food was five percent higher. The department estimates that 1977 net farm income will be 20 billion dollars, down almost nine percent from 1976 and down 33 percent from the record earnings farmers received in 1973. Retail food ·prices this year are expected to average about six percent more than last year . That's about twice as big as the increase from 1975 to 1976. However, only 33 cent out of every dollar spent on food actually goes to the farmers, a USDA study shows. In Colorado, about 75 farmers and ranchers gathered in Springfield for the 280 mile trip to Denver. Organizers said they hoped 200 tractors would be in line when the 
tractors reach Denver tomorrow. Shroeder said he did not think that a strike can be avoided. 
"I don't think there is a chance of not having a strike," he said. "There's a number of politicians 
· and other people in the country who don't believe this thing is real. It's a sad thing to have to strike to get your problems recdgnized." Authorities in several states provided police escorts for the slow­moving tractors. They also urged other motorists to try to avoid the routes the farmers are taking. Officials in Nebraska said they were expecting about 3,000 tractors in Lincoln tomorrow and said parking around the capitol would be reserved for the farmers. In Washington, where 7,000 tractors are expected to ring the Washington Monument, the Na­tional Park Service said it would allow the farmers to park SO tractors on Capitol Hill until Wed­. nesday when the strike is threaten­ed. 

BOOK SUGGESTIONS A GIFTS FOR MOM & DAD 
The Second Ring of Power 
Carlos Castaneda Six Men Alister Cooke 
The· Thorn birds 

Carlene McCullouth 
Down the Seine and Up the Potomac 
Art Buchwald 
The Chancellor Manuscript 
Robert Tudlum 
The Joyful Christian 
C. S. Lewis 
A Time For Being Human 
Eugene Kennedy Beggar Man Thief Irwin Shaw 
-AT THE H.AMMES NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 


Friday, December 9, 1977
18 the observer 

Amulet may be cultural link 
San Jose, Costa Rica [AP] • Scientists believe they may have found new evidence directly linking three ancient civilizations in Mexi­co, Guatemala and Costa Rica. 
The key is a pre-Columbian jade amulet estimated to be about 2,500 years old found in a northern San Jose suburb in October. 
Michael Snarskis, a Columbia University doctoral student who headed the excavation team, said the discovery in a small burial place marks the first time in Costa Rica that evidence of links among the three cultures has been found in its original site. 
Archaeologists have known that the cultures of the Olmecs of Mexico, the Mayas of Guatemala and the unnamed inhabitants of Costa Rica had intermingled between IA.D. and 400A.D., Snarskis said. 
He added that preliminary studies of the amulet, or charm, indicate it was originally the work of the Olmecs between 600B.C., and JOOB.C. 
The polished, unusually long pendant, possibly a badge of office for the powerful priests of rain gods. started out as a smooth piece in the shape of a half clam shell, Snarskis said. 
But a bas-relief motif on the amulet's surface probably was carved about 500 years later by the pre-classic Mayan Culture of Kaminaljuyu 300B.C. to 300A.D. in highland Guatemala, he said. 
"I suspect the jade made its way to Costa Rica as an heirloom through priests of the rain gods," 
plans activities 
for Cotton Bowl 
The Notre Dame Club of Dallas will sponsor several activities for ND students, alumni, and friends of the University who are going to the Cotton Bowl. 
The Club will have an informa­tion headquarters and hospitality suite from Saturday, Dec. 31, through the time of the Bowl game, in the Dallas Hilton Hotel in downtown Dallas. The Club will also hold a New Year's Eve dance at the Dallas Convention Center. 
On Sunday, Jan. l, the Club will sponsor a brunch and mass at the Hilton; a television party for the National Football League playoffs, also at the Hilton; and a dinner­dance at night at the Dallas Convention Center. 
In addition, the Club will hold a pre-game brunch and pep rally as well as a post-game victory party at 
F.l Chico restaurant in Fair Park, the location of the Cotton Bowl. Details about these activities will 
·be available at the Club's Hilton headquarters. For further· infor­mation, contact Kevin McNevins at 214-368-6647. 
Kommers invited to tour Germany 
Donald P. /Kommers, professor of government and international studies and director of the Notre Dame Law School's Center for Civil Rights, has been invited by the West German Government to join seven other American scholars on a 
· two-week tour of Germany which begins today. In addition to Kommers, the group includes Professors Henry Ehrmann of the University of California, Ronald lnglehart of the University of Michigan, Vernon Lidtke of John Hopkins University, George Romoser of the University of New Hampshire, Richard Mer­rh1 from the University of Illinois, and Karl Cerny of Georgetown University. The group will meet with West German political officials, academi­cians, and media representatives to discuss recent political develop­ments in West Germany and their likely impact upon German­American relations. Kommers is the author of two books on German law and politics. 
• 

said Snarskis, who emphasized that all conclusions about the amulet are tentative. 
What is important about the charm is that it is the first known "scientifically" dug archeological evidence of a direct cultural tie, said Snarskis, 32, a native of Cedar Rapids, Iowa, and head of the National Anthropological Center at Costa Rica's National Museum. 
"Aesthetically, it is among the finest in the world," he said. "I don't know of ·another piece like it." 
Costa Rican construction workers clearing a building site in the suburb of Tibas accidentally uncovered the archaeological find, including the burial ground of a teen-aged boy who lived sometime between lA.D. and 400A.D., Snarskis said. Museum experts then took over the digging. 
The carved, 13-inch, grey-green artifact was found face down along the right arm of the boy, believed to have held high social status. 
The motif is of a slender. graceful human hand grasping an animal with a catlike head and a serpentine or insect-like tail. The wrist is covered by a bow or wristlet. 
"Throughout Middle America, the jaguar, and to a lesser degree the serpent, was portrayed as the symbol of the powerful priests who represented the rain god, Chac, among the Maya and Tlaloc and 
He said smaller, highly polished clam-shell amulets--ones that were not carved have been excavated at the Olmec site of L11 Venta 1100 
B.C. to 500 B.C. south of Veracruz, Mexico, and at another Olmec site, Cerro de las Masas, in Veracruz. 
The wristlet's style has been observed only on columns at Kaminaljuyu, Snarskis said. Simi­lar designs have been found in Mexican sites of the lzapu culture along the Mexican Guatemalan border. 
Another less plausible theory of how the object got to Costa Rica is that people combining Olmec and Mayan cultures carved and fash­ioned it, he added. 
Snarskis said it was unlikely that the piece was brought directly to Costa Rica by the Olmecs. 
the archeologist noted that mer­chant priests were known to com­bine P,roselytizing with diplomatic trips as far south as what now is Panama. 
Snarskis said National Museum experts believe perhaps half the artifacts originally uncovered by the construction workers were looted before the archeological team arrived. 
Besides the jade amulet, the. team found stone grinding tables, tripod ceramic vessels and small jade objects. 
The boy's badly decomposed remains lay on two round stone 
• 



South Bend -You asked for it, you got it! [Photo by Leo Hansen]
":;==========================:::; 
~~ 
SCOnSDALE MALL (Ireland and Miami Road) Phone: 291-6164 
Sale Starting Dec 14th $10.00 Men's Shirts $14.99 'Movin' On' Pants Great Xmas Gift Ideas!! 
• 

Michigan is fun with white frosting. 
It's a piece of cake. Way's clear. Snow's here, you're near. Get a group together ... come in spares or pairs. Come for day and night skiing-downhill and cross country for beginners, intermediates and experts. Snowmobiling and a pres ski activities, too. Call for the latest road and snow conditions. 
Michigan. Forall there is to seeand do,~ Midligan 
no otherstate comes close': U Travel Commission 

Friday, December 9, 1977 
the observer 19

·-----·-----··­
FBI uncovers Cosa Nostra tapestry of crime 
aevelaad [AP] • The FBI , outlining its case against nine alleged Cosa Nostra members charged in two car-bomb murders, unfolds a tapestry of crime whose threads of extortion,· murder, loan­!>harking and gambling reach across the nation. 
FBI agent Joseph E. Griffin Jr. describes the case as ''the most significant action that has single organized crime family in the United States." 
Among the nine indicted Monday by the Cuyaghoga County grand jury was 73-year-old James 
T. Licavoli, described by the FBI affidavit as the Cosa Nostra capo or boss in Cleveland. Specifically, the affidavit filed in federal court accused Licavoli or ordering the assassination of John Nardi, iden­tified as a former Cosa · Nostra member, and of his associate, Daniel J. "Danny" Grc~ene, during a power struggle. 

The nine were indicted on charges of conspiracy to commit murder, aggravated murder for hire, aggravated ai"son and engaging in organized crime. 
Three of the men-Licavoli, An~elo Lonardo, 66, and Thomas J. Simto,30 -entered innocent pleas Tuesday in Common Pleas Court. 
A fourth man, John Calandra, 66, suffered a heart attack after his arrest and was in inte:nsive care at St. Vincent Charity Hospital. 
The affidavit signed by FBI agent E. Michail Kahoe details an ''organized crime cons.piracy which is controlled nationally by a mem­bership which is exclusively Italian." The organization is variously referred to as "The "our thing," the statement said. 
Kahoe said the affidavit was based on information from confi­dential sources, including one Cosa Nostra member. It gives details of the struggle for control of the rackets in northeastern Ohio, where police have said the organ­ization rakes in millions of dollars. 
The affidavit says that in 1973, two years before the death of former Cosa Nostra boss John Scalish, Nardi "appeared to be making a play for leadership in the Cleveland ... family." 
A Cosa Nostra leader was quoted in the affidavit as saying that Nardi , a nephew of Cosa Nostra under boss Anthony Milano, "had five criminal associates who were killing people by putting bombs in their cars." 
In 1976, after he had taken over as capo in Cleveland, Licavoli "learned that four Cleveland family members, who were not further identified had aligned themselves with the "Irish mob" headed by Danny Greene, the affidavit said. 
Kahoe qouted one of his sources as sayin~ Licavoli called the Irish mob ''a tightly knit group who were utilizin~ explosives and other sophisticated weapons to attempt to gain control of criminal activities in Cleveland " 
Licavoli decided that Nardi and Greene had to be killed, the affidavit said, but the statement identified a West Coast Cosa Nostra member, James "The Weasel" Fratiano, as the man who made the first contact with accused bomber Raymond Ferritto, 48, of Erie, Pa. 
Ferritto, charged last month in the Greene killing, was quoted in the affidavit as giving details of the organization's efforts to kill the two men but said he was not involved in the Nardi bombing. 
Nardi was killed May 17 and Greene Oct. 6, both by bombs that had been placed In cars parked next to the cars theywere using and 
which were detonated by remote control. 
Licavoli, a cousin of one-time Detroit racket fi~ures Peter and Thomas "Yonnie' Licavoli, came to Cleveland in 1940 after being paroled on a blackmail conviction in Toledo in the late 1940's. 
Kahoe's affidavit says the Cosa Nostra is made of a group of families, each with its own geo­graphical area, and gives the organization structure of the families -from the capo down to the caporegima, or captam, who is said to control "various members of the family," reporting directly to the capo. 
He says the national organization is controlled by "a policy group known as the 'comm­ission,"' made up of the "tl)e various bosses of the 'families." 
Some investigators said they thought tlje federal roundup based on information from someone with­
in the organization, had a deva­statin~ ; effect on the local operation. 
Meany raps US free trad,e policy 

Outfit" "La Cosa Nostra " or
2 .....................,
•R•ver City Reco•r•.
1 

: One of lndi~ha's Largest Record Stores : 
5$1 .00 OFF SALE!! : 
: All Albums and T -Shirts : 
: No Limit! : 
• 

• Tonight: 6:00 -Midnight: 
: Saturday: 10:00 -10:00 : 
•• Featuring a full line of rock, pop, jazz, •• 
blues, soul and bluegrass records & 
• 
tapes! Also official concert tour T-shirts, posters and belt buckles, cut-outs, im-• • ports, magazines, blank tapes, record • 

care products and River City Concert • Tickets! (Pick up your copy of The River • 

• 
City Review today!) 



·----------------~----: 
• F~ee albums to the first 10 ND or SMC students ~N/) • 
Wtth Cotton Bowl ticket stubs if Notre Dame ..,• 
beats Texas. Offer begins at 10:00 a.m. Tuesday (~ · • • January 17! (:<1·' • 
• River City Records · • 
• 50970 U.S. 31 Narth (Next to Ray's Quality Foods) • 
L SouthBend••••••••••••••••••277~4242 .. 
ut)iversitrof 
J?~tre dan)e 
WS ANGELES [AP] -AFL-CIO President George Meany urged President Carter yesterday to abandon America's free trade policy, calling it "a joke and a myth" that allows foreign imports to wipe out U.S. jobs and indus­tries. 
In his keynote speech to the AFL-CIO convention, Meany also called for administration backing of a bigger job-creating economic stimulus program and rejection of tax cuts for business. 
The 83-year-old labor chief said Carter's commitment to full employment will be a shallow promise if the President fails to back it up with programs that will generate four million new jobs each year for the next four years and strong action to protect American industry from "cut-throat and often illegal foreign competition." 
Broncos defeat NO swimmers · 
[continued from page 
Petro's time of 2:25.64 in the 200 yard breaststroke was victorious for Notre Dame. It marked his best of 
the season in this event. Chiles' second place position in the 200 yard backstroke helped boost the Irish score. 
Tonight the Irish swimmers will entertain Cleveland State in their second home meet of the season. This meet, scheduled for 4 p.m. in the Rockne Memorial Pool, is the last meet on the roster before the first of the year. 
Cleveland State looks to be a challenging opponent as they com· pleted their season 11-1 last year. They are led by sprinter Kris Kirschner and freshman diver Jeff Dalman. 
"A government trade policy predicated on old ideas of 'free trade' is worse than a joke -it is a prescription for disaster," he said. 
Meany called foreign trade "a guerrilla warfare of economics" and said the United States "is being ambushed.'' 
He noted that imports of manu­factured goods increased by $2 billion in the first six months of 1977, more than the rise of oil imports. 
''The answer is fair trade • do unto others as they do unto us • barrier for barrier, closed door for closed door," he continued. "The United States must make it clear to every other nation of the world: The use of tariff or non-tariff barriers to bar U.S. products will result in swift, retaliatory action by this government.'' 
During their four-day meeting, held every two years, the 1,200 convention delegates representing 
13.5 million AFL-CIO members are 
*Yesterday was 
expected to adopt a resolution urging Congress to pass legislation next year patterned after the highly protectionist Burke-Hartke Bill which was defeated by free trade forces in 1974. 
Meany said the new bill should set new limits on imports, require · swift enforcement of anti-dumping laws, and cancel tax breaks for American corporations that export jobs overseas. 
While sentiment appear to be growing in Congress for such legislation, the AFL-CIO proposal is likely to set organized labor on a collision course with the' adminis­tration, which so far has been pushing for voluntary trade agree­ments. ' 
The Humphrey-Hawkins bill sets as a goal, the reduction of the unemployment rate, currently 6.9 percent, to 4 percent by 1983 but authorizes no programs to achieve that goal. 
* 

Julie Pellettiere 
21st Birthday. How 'bout her. 
If you missed her dancing atop of Senior Bar with a rose between her teeth, catch her tonight at Corby's f'!r a command perfonnance. 
ALLRIGHTA 
*

\***************************************************
! I FOUND IT! i 
* ~ at the-: * 
* * 
! NOTRE DAME APARTMENTS ! 
* *
* *
! CLOSE TO CAMPUS! ! 
! APARTMENTS STILL AVAILABLE i
glee club 
: IMMEDIATE OCCUPANCY : 
* *
il) COI)Cert 
i 2 bedrooms -completely furnished ! 
: complete kitchen and dining room :
Annual Christmas Concert 
Tuesday, Dec. 13, at 10:00 p.n1. 
* ' * 
: $280 -300/ month up to 4 students :
at Washington Hall Free Admission, Everyone·welcon1e 
.: call Cand_y ot 233-6363 or 234-6647 : 
......**ldl41 .....................................~ 

P-~~~.-------~-------------------------------------------------------------------­
20 the observer Friday, December 9, 1977 
Irish grapplers host first home meet 
by Brian Beglane Sports Writer 
Somebody forgot to give Evans­
ville and St. Joseph's the Irish good 
luck wish. The road did not rise to 
meet them; they must have faced a 
strong headwind; it must have 
been cloudy and raining hard; and 
maybe they could not fit into the 
palm of God's hand. 
Perhaps a little bit of the luck of 
the Irish might have helped, 
because both schools had to drop 
out of this Saturday's wrestling 
match against Notre Dame. Evans­
ville got hit hard with injuries 
("When it rains, it pours") and St. 
Joseph's faced scheduling difficul­
ties, so of the three teams origi­
nally scheduled for the Irish to 
wrestle, only Valparaiso remains. 
Knock on wood. 
The Notre Dame wrestlers open 
up their home season this Saturday 
(1:00 p.m. at the ACC pit) with an all-time record of 9-0 against the Valparaiso Crusaders, and Irish Head Coach Ray Sepeta hopes to continue that streak. 
"We are a strong dual meet team, with experience and depth. Valparaiso is more on our level of 
ND falls to WM 
by Leigh Tunakan Sports Writer 
In the second dual meet of the season, the Irish tankers opposed the Broncos of Western Michigan on their home ground in Kal­amazoo. Notre Dame, although suffering their first defeat, 68-45, clocked several of their best in­dividual times this year. 
One such performance came in teh 400 yard medley realy as the team of Mark Chiles, Andy Petro, Tom Hartye, and Rod McLaughlin placed second in competition, but bettered their previous best time with a new time of 3:46.4. Mike Noonan also found himself with a new personal record as he finished third in the 1000 yard freestyle with a time of 10:45.39. 
David Campbell's time of I :52.07 and Steve Fitzmorris' time of 
I:55.62 secured second and third, respectively, for the Irish in the 200 yard freestyle. Campbell also showed his ability as a distance swimmer with a personal reocrd time of 5:02.86 and a second place position in the 500 yard freestyle. 
The spring freestyle events showed Notre Dame's Ed Fitz­simmons in top positions. Fitzsim­mons improved his best effort of the year in the SO yard event, with a winning time of :22.13. Although topped by Western Michigan's Mike Schmitz in the 100 yard freestyle, Fitzsimmons exhibited a solid performance with his time of :50.2. 
Freshman John Komora also proved to be a consistently strong swimmer for the Irish as he established a new varsity record in the 200 yard individual medley and captured third in the 500 yard freestyle. His second place time of 
2:03.7 in the 200 yard ind. medley topped the existing varsity record set by Chiles in last year's Motor City Invitational by over a second. The relay team of Hartye, Me Laughlin, Komora, and Fitzsim­mons bagged another first for the Irish in the 400 yard freestyle event. 
Diver Joe Caverly held strong in the competition as Western Mich­igan's divers Mike Secrest and Mike Lyden set new varsity records in the 1-meter and 3-meter con­tests. Caverly's scores in both ·~vents bettered his previous per­sonal records for this year. He captured second in the 1-meter and third in the 3-meter with total point counts of 354.4 and 242.45, respec­tively. The 200 yard butterfly proved to be another success story for freshman Rod McLaughlin as he again had a chance to surpass his previous performance. His efforts, however, captured serond for the Irish in the event. 
[continued on page 19) 
• ·•. ••• , ••• ' ·~ • ,, • • .-J r r-·•.· ·•• 
wrestling so I hope to do a good job against them," noted Sepeta. 
Junior George Gedney will start for Notre Dame in the 118 pound weight class. The native of Pensacola, Fla., tied Valparaiso's Pat Hast 6-6 last year and looks for a win this time around. 
Dave DiSabato, a 126 pound sophomore, ~will start at that class and hopes to continue on his winning ways. The product of St. Francis De Sal.es High School has captured two tournament crowns this year, his last one at the RIT Invitational this past weekend. 
Sophomore John Torres will occupy the 134 pound spot for the Blue and Gold grapplers. "John does not outmuscle his oppenents but rather outsmarts them. He uses slick moves on his takedowns and is quick on his feet," notes Coach Sepeta. 
Chris Favo will get the nod for the 142 pound class and Coach Sepeta considers him an outstand­ing natural athlete. "Chris has caught on well this year and is adept at taking out his opponent's legs on the takedown. He has great ability and I never have to worry about him being in good condi­tion." 
Pat McKillen, senior co-captain from Waukegan, Dl., will start as 
,. ,,...,._ 
~~ ~~# 

t*~The Perfect 

·~tstocking 
Stoffer 
FOR THE PERFECT FRIEND 

•• 4 1 •• p •• ,..,~,<~·..-..... '•.,. o <' •"••.-:~ .......... ,.-. fl' o-'· ,.,..... ~ ... , ............ I~~.·~.,~, 'o '1, ... 'lo' • 0 
usual at 150. His natural balance 
and lightning speed make him a 
deft masfer of takedown and 
escape wrestling and is why he 
should repeat with a win against 
the Crusaders. Last season he 
pinned Carl Wewey of Valparaiso 
in 7:06. 

Pat Landfried will start for the Irish at 158 while co-captain Mike Padden will go at 167. Landfried is noted for his improvisation and ability to react as a situation develops on the mat. Padden decisioned Valparaiso's Roger Twito 9-0 last season and both Padden and Landfried look for wins this Saturday. 
Bob Dreger, a 177 pound senior from Skokie, Ill., will start at that class for Notre Dame. He took home a title from the team's first tournament at Michigan State. and hopes for a win against the Crusaders. 
Vince Keszei and Dave Rodgers ' will occupy the last two positions for the Irish. Both wrestlers rely on the basics for success. Keszei will go at 190 and is a strong grappler, but has weak knees. Rodgers, only a freshman, will be Notre Dame's heavyweight. "Dave is one of the hardest workers on the team. He is at practice every day and works very hard. He's young, and with some more experience, he should do very well for us," comments Coach Sepeta. 
Normally at the start of the season the individual matches would be six minutes long. However, because two teams have backed out, Coach Sepeta hopes for eight minute bouts. 
"The matches are usually six minutes at the start because the wrestlers are not at their top conditions yet. We've been train-
Buy all your Tennis needs at Discount Prices lowest prices on racketball, handball, ~md squash needs 
Racketball and Tennis Racket Sale! 

321 S. Notre Dame Mon-Fri 9-6 Sat. 9-4
233-8712 
ing hard, however, and I think we'll be able to handle the longer matches." 
The Irish will be at Indiana on Wednesday following this Satur­day's meet. Over the Christmas break Notre Dame will send five wrestlers to the Midlands TQlU1la­ment, which will be held at Northwestern University Dec. 29-30. 
This Saturday's meet will be held at the ACC pit starting at 1:00 p.m. 
-----~-~------------­
-------~-~-------~-----------------------------------­
Fl'iday, Dec:embe_r_9_,_19_7_7______.t...h..,a..._.o&.lb..,s.allliiU..:rviLla~rL-__.2L1L 
Notre Dame honors football squad 
by Paul Stevenson Sports Editor 
Ross Browner, Bob Golic, Jerome Heavens, Ken MacAfee, Joe Montana and Dave Vinson wt.:re the top honorees at the fifty-eighth annual football banquet held in the Athletic and Convoca­tion Center last night. 
MacAfee, who has already been noticed as Player of the Year by the Walter Camp Foundation, was named Notre Dame's Most Valu­able Player. Montana was honored as the team's Most Valuable Offensive Player, while Browner and Golic tied for Most Valuable Defensive Player honors. 
Vinson, a senior guard, Rhode 
Scholarship candidate, was the 
winner of the John P. McMullan 
Fighting Irish 
to tackle Bruins 
in major test 

[continued from page 24] The game is slated to begin at 8 
p.m. on the coast which means it will get underway at 11 p.m. in South Bend. Immediately follow­ing the game, the Irish will return to Notre Dame to begin preparation for Indiana University who they will meet next Wednesday in Bloomington. The Hoosiers will mark the second leg of the grueling six game road trip which will carry the Irish to Louisville, Kentucky on December 31 for their showdown with the Wildcats and then to San Francisco where Bob Gailard and his Dons will try to garner revenge for last year's defeat which knocked the goose egg out of their final loss column. The road affair will conclude on January 14 when the NIT champion Bonnies of St. Bonaventure play host to Notre Dame in Rochester, N.Y. The only home game in that period is a December 23 meeting with St. Joseph College at the A.C.C. 
"We're getting into the meat of our schedule now. and that's what we like," Phelps commented. "We play the big ones in a row a:nd it prepares us for tournament play. We're gonna take 'em one at a time." 
NOTICES 
"TENNIS PROS and ASSISTANT PROS­Seasonal and year-round clubs; good playing and teaching background. Call 
(301) 654-3770, or send 2 complete resumes and 2pictures to: Col. R. Reade. WTS, 8401 Connecticut Avenue, Suite 1011, Chevy Chase, MD 20015." 
Are you in the Christmas spirit yet? If not, the Notre Dame-St. Mary's Council for the Retarded's Christmas Party will surely get you in the Christmas mood. The celebration starts at 9:00 a.m. and goes till 11:30 a.m. which includes decorating the Christmas Tree, dancing the Reindeer Shuffle (yes, Santa's rein­deers can dance), and aquest appearance by Santa himself with lots of toys for the kids. Join in the festivities this Saturday, Dec 10, 1977 at Logan Center, just one block south of the football stadium. If you have any questions, comments, suggest­

I. 
ions, or ideas feel free to call Jeanne Conboy 284-4391 or Art Koebel 287-7509. P.S. There will be a Christmas Wrapping Party, Friday, Dec 9th at 7:30 
p.m. till midnight at Art's (718 E Corby Blvd). Come and help wrap presents and make cookies ! 
Rugby Club team picture for yearbook to be taken at Corby's Friday Dec. 9, at 3 
p.m. Be there by 1 p.m. so we can look our best. 
Morrissey Loan Fund Student Loans. $2D-150. 1day wait. 1 percent interest. Due in 30 days LaFortune basement. m-f 11:15-12:15 . Last day for loans this semester-Dec. 14. 
Experienced Typist For more information call h2-2819. 
Need Quality Typing ? Executary, Inc. Professional Typing Service IBM Correcting Selectrics. $.85 per page minimum. Cali 232-D898 "When you want the Best". 
Need accurate typing of term papers, manuscripts Cali: 287-5162. 

Award, given each year to the yards. Browner also -holds the player who best exc~mplifies ~ the record for his 12 fumble recoveries role of student-athlete. Golic, at duLac. .. Heavens and Montana were named MacAfee completed the season tri-captains for the 1978 season. with 54 pass receptions for 797 
Browner, who just recently yards and six touchdowns. During received the UPI Lir1eman of the his four year stint with the Irish, Year distinction for the second MacAfee hauled in 128 cathces, consecutive year, is vying for his ranking him as the all-time leading second straight Outland Trophy as receiver at tight end in Notre. Dame well as the Lombardi Award. history. 
During his four year career, Golic, Notre Dame's middle line-Browner registered 340 tackles, backer, led the team in tackles with including 77 for a negative 515 146. This mark breaks the all-time record of 144 setby Greg Collins in 1974. Golic also broke up five passes,· 'had three interceptions, blocked a punt and recovered a fumble during the 1977 campaign. Golic now has 327 tackles in his Notre Dame career, ranking him third. on the all-time Irish list behind Bob Olson, who had 396, and Browner. 
Montana, who began his heroics in the fourth quarter of the Purdue game, started the last eight games of the season for Notre Dame. The Monongahela, Pennsylvania native completed 99 of 189 passes for 1604 yards and 11 touchdowns during the past season. 
Heavens, who returned to the Notre Dame lineup after his injury in the Northwestern game last year, came six yards short of becoming Notre Dame's second 1000 yard rusher. During his three years with the Irish, Heavens has rambled for 1954 yards, ranking him fourth on the all-time rushing list. 
:::~:::::::::::::~:~:::::::::::~:::::~:::::::::::~:~:~:~:~:~:::~:~:~:::~:~:~:=:~:~:=:=:~:::::::::::;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 
Christmas Wishes 

The Notre Dame football team will be spending .their Yuletide season in Dallas, while the Irish cagers and icers will each be facing rigorous schedules of their own over the Chirstmas Holidays. However, there is time to sit back and predict what some of these Notre Dame student-athletes will be requesting for Christmas. 
So, on behalf of The Observer sports staff, here are some Christmas gifts that many Irish athletes, coaches and officials wi.ll be awaiting to see under the Christmas tree. 
Dan Devine: The MacArthur Bowl. 
Kris Haines: A Bruc:e Lee poster. 
Jerome Heavens: Six more yards 
Vagus Ferguson: A copy of the book "A Christmas Carol.!' 
Steve Heimkreiter: A lifetime supply of Crispy Kritters. 
Willie Fry: Matt Cavanaugh's cast. 
Jim Browner: A contract doing Clearasil commercials 
Luther Bradley: A bottle of Grecian Formula 16. 
Ted Burgmeier: A month's supply of Pampers. Terry Eurick: An E.P.A. manual on golf cart mileage. Steve Orsini: A. bottle of Pepto Bismol for evenings in Miami. 
Jeff Weston: A manual on how to operate a motorbike. 
Doug Becker: A copy of the book "How to make friends and influence 
people." 
Joe Montana: Eleven more quarters of playing time. 
Dave Huffman: Fifty tickets to the Cotton Bowl. 
Dave Waymer: An i:leven game Georgia Tech schedule. Ross Browner: A matching earring. 
Ken Dike: A plug. . 
Bob Golic: An appo:intment with Vidal Sasoon. 
Joe Restic: Six more interceptions. 
Rusty Lisch: A lifetime membership to the Notre Dame Golf Course. 
Tom Domin: An autographed sweet roll form the Pillsbury Doughboy. 
Moose Krause: A good cigar. 
Colonel Stephens: Elevator shoes. 
Bob Best: A one-year subscription to "High Society" magazine. 
Mike Busick: Eighty thousand Cotton Bowl tickets. 
Digger Phelps: A calendar without Thursdays in March. 
Dan Nee: A last name. 
Dave Batton: A pailr of basketball shoes bonded with Flubber. 
Gilbert Salinas: Alii the milk shakes and Mexican food he can eat. 
Orlando Woolridge: An NCAA regulation raising the basket to 12 feet so 
Got something to say to the world ? Let the Book Publishing group (second semester) weigh your words. We might help you get an audilmce. Best length: 100 pages. E. Christman, G142, Library. 
FOR FIENT 

Apt. for Rent 2or 3 persons, $165 or 180/ mo. with utilities, ~· mi form campus, Seniors or Grad Students. 289-5215 after 11 p.m. 
Nice 3 to 4bedroom furnished house for rent. Walking distance to campus. Call 233-2613 after 5:00. 
One or Two furnished bedrooms for rent in country house abOIJt 6miles from Notre Dame 277-3604. 
Two Rooms in student house for second semester. Close to '::ampus. Share rent and utilities. Call ~~88-0088. 
LOST AND FOUND 

found: Pair of girl's !Jiasses in green case outside ACC Tues. afternoon. To claim, call 1389. 
Lost: one maroon and white scarf in vicinity of N D Apts. Sue 289-8793. 
Lost-pair of wire rim glasses with photogray lenses in the area of the bars Thursday night. Ca1ll Scott 234-0722. 
Found: A silver Tabbey cat with brown flea collar behind Badin. Call 8272. 
Lost or Taken-Fran North Dining Hall, Thursa Dec.1, a 125 Calculus book and red 4-section note,book. Desperately need notebook for finals. No questions asked. Call Jim 1466 or stop by 252 Cav. 
Found one umbrella:. Call Pete 288-2688. 
Found: Set of keys. Call8227 to identify. 
Lost: A T.I.S.R. !i1 calculator on the second floor of the Math Building. Help ! I need it for finals. Reward for its return 
Dave 2216. 
Lost: Antique diamond ring. Sat. night,Zahm-Farley area. Please call Kathy 6816. 
Lost-one blue ski jacket at 101 party. Please call Charles Wolf 233-6773. 
Lost: at Junior Class Formal a pinkie gold signet ring. Please call 4-4786. 
Lost: Two silver rings, one is a wedding ring with the inscription To RMF from JEP 9-20. The other has two silver balls in it. Will sell soul for return. Please contact Theresa at 1880 , 226 Lewis. 
Lost Texas Instrument TI-50A calculator in Rm 118 Niewland Wed. 11-16-77. Please return . Tom ph. 6713. 
Lost: Dark green down ski parka taken at Stepan Center last Saturday during Blues Festival. if seen or feeling guilty, call John 6764. Please it's cold outside ! 
Found: pr. glasses near Fr. Sarin statue. Silver metal frames, tinted lenses, Bausch and Lomb case. Call1733. 
Lost-over? days ago-Texas Instruments SR 51-11 calculator. Urgently needed. Cail1479. 
Lost-Notre Dame notebook Law-Ruled, Mamagement, name on cover-Greg Meredith, Call 8435. Reward. 
WANTED 

Riders needed to Florida, leaving 20th or early 21st . Michelle 4-4300. 
Need ride to Texas: Dallas, Houston, San Antonio, or Austin. Share exp. and driving -2942. 
Need tickets for UCLA call Jim 8708. 
Wanted: one Hockey Fanatic able to attend all home games. Earn $$$ between periods at the Blue Line Club. 234-6519. 
Need roommate to share apartment at Crestwood second semer'ster (2 miles from campus) Call Vince at 288-1259 between 11:00 and midnight. 
he can be the only player in the country who can dunk. Jeff Carpenter: A G.I. Joe doll. Bruce Flowers: A butcher knife. Duck Williams: Forty minutes of a four-corners offense. Bill Laimbeer: A cot in the Library. Rich Branning: A "hot item" in the St. Mary's raffle. John Peterson: A boxing lesson from Muhammad Ali. Dan Byers: A life preserver for the S.S. Byers. Don Jackson: Len Moher's Bert and I album about everything you wanted lo know about Kenne Bunkport but were afraid to ask. Dick Howe: A defensive partner who isn't a Brownschidle. Jeff Brownschidle: As much success as brother Jack had here under the Dome. Scott Cameron: A copy of Joe Namath's book I Can't Wait Until Tomorrow, Because I Get Better I.Goldng Every Day. Don Fairholm: The extra wide neck ties come back into style real soon. Terry Fairholm: A copy of Emily Post's book Etiquette and Getting Married. Geoff Collier: A rendevous with the real Geoff Conski at the Douglass House. Steve Schneider: A bed with guard rails. Ted Weltzin: The John Whitmer Award at the hockey banquet. Tom Michalek: Winning the Opie Taylor look alike contest. Kevin Nugent: A pair of sliding pads for the walking out of airports. Len Moher: A chance to run for political office anywhere as long as he can shake hands, talk to people and kiss babies. Lefty Smith: A pink suit to wear in his starring role in the next Pink Panther movie. John Whitmer: A pleasant trip to the Cotton Bowl. Kevin Humphreys: A truck load of vitamin pills to be taken in amounts of 50-100 at a time. Greg Meredith: Many more personals in the Observer and at least one guy in his female fan club. Sharon Petro: A nice long vacation in the Carribean. Astrid Hotvedt: A new name. Cathy Cordes: Curtains for the Angela Athletic Complex. Carol Lally: A year's supply of "Super Weight On." Maggie Lally: Another foot of growth, or at least enough to be able to see over the scorekeepers table. Barb Timm: A new pair of tennis shoes; hr old ones are to be bronzed and displayed in the Angela Athletic Facility. 
Need riders to Oklahoma City, Tulsa, leave 22. Brain 1641. 
Need up to 3 people to sublet N.D. Avenue Apt for second semerster. Cali Beth 288-1560. 
Member N.D.-S.M.C. community to drive new car to San Francisco or Seattle and drive car back after Christmas break. Call 232-0453. 
Help! N.D. guy must learn ballroom dances. John 1380. 
Female student looking for apartment or house near campus to share for second semester. Call Gail 284-4523. t 
Wanted: 2 riders to and from L.A. leaving 12/18. Call Abe 287-4828. 
Need ride to Florida. Can leave Dec. 22. Will share driving and expenses. Call Jack, 6706. 
Need ride to Long Island for Christmas vacation. Can leave on the 20th, after 7 
p.m. Will share expenses. Call Mac 3470. 
Need ride to New Jersey for break. Share cost and driving. Call Bart 1484. 
'need ride to and/or from Boston­Providence area for Christmas break. Will share expenses. Call Paul 3312. 
Needed: riders. HEading West (NM) ater 12/17. Call 272-1989 now. 
Julio's has opening for delivery personnel either Sat. or Sun. or both days available. From 5p.m. to 2a.m. must have own car. 
Guaranteed $3 per hour plus tips. Call 233-2354. 
Wanted: Need ride to Des Moines area after 10 p.m. Dec. 20th. Call Nancy4375. 
Two females wnant housemate. Available any time now through next semester. Own room; good neigh­borhood 289-3453. 
Big money paid for two student basket­ball tickets. 277-3604. 
FOR SALE 

For Sale 1971 Capri, 89,000 mi. Runs well, must sacrifice $450. Call 4438. 
A pr. Presage Speakers. 2 way system with tune port-Great sound. Asking $ $120 for pr. 8774. 
"A-Caroling" the perfect Christmas Gift by the Notre Dame Glee Club. on sale from any member or call 6352. 
For sale: a pair of skis-poles-boots size 9-10 like new. $70.00 ph. 1127. 
For sale: mem's pair of figure skates size 13 like new. $10.00 ph. 1127. 
WHY PAY MORE?? Flanner records has all$6.981ist lp's for only $4.50. All $7.98 list ip's only $5.29. Over 400 albums in stock. Phone orders accepted. FLANNER RECORDS, 322 Flanner, phone 2741. Hours, M-Th 4-5,6:30-8:00. Sun 2-3:30. 
0 
0 
~~--::..---..~ 


classified ads 
~--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­22 the observer Friday, December9, 1977/.~~~~ .... ~~~~~~~~~~ 
"'"----------------------·---.....,~ thlsls the final munchldll p1r10111l ef till sallllltlr. but waH till next year.  •  . .·  .  ·  Dear Uzzle, BDiy, Mickey, Martha,Tommy, Mom, Dad and Blitz: I'll Ill home for Christmas so pleasa turn on the heat In the attic.  ·  . Debbie Roma, Your Krls Krlngle knows you  don't  
PERSONALS Dear Don, Tonight from 6:oo to midnight and I Good Luck! We'll m!:s you! All our Saturday from 10:110 to 10:110­Till First love. Annual River City Racords Snowball Sale Your SMC fans I $1.110 eff all .1lbums and rock town Maureen, Jean, Camille, Leigh, Connie t-shlrts­no limit I Stock up for the and Judy holidays. 8,1100 records and tapes to ch0011 from. 50970 U.S. 31 Nrtll, 3 milt Anyone Interested In meeting regularlyNorth ef Notre Dame. for morning prayer, please call Campus Ministry at 6536 or 8832. Will form groupFree albums from River City Records to this semester to blgln In January.the first 10 Notre Dame or St. Mary's students with Cotton Bowl ticket stubs H Bus Trip to Cotton BowlNOtre Dame beats Texas I Offer begins Chicago -St. Louis -DallasTuesday, January 17 at 10:110 a.m. Round Trip -$55.110 Call 288 -8235Season's greetings to our ND/smc friends and staff from River City Racords Female student wanted to share large I , home with Teachet. Excellent neighbor­hood, near Scottsdale Mall. 289-4514CONGRATULATIONS CC, I know that your're going to love Notre Dame and NEED RIDE TO MILWAUKEE. Dec. 14,Notre Dame's going to love you ! Love, 15 or 16. Call Kate 1264. Mary ' ----------------------' Dear Bill,Girl, Vodka punch, screwdrivers , 7 up Despite ail the snide comments, itand vodka, gin and cranapple.-what a ' really was good to have you back.week-end-and you didn't even bring him Congratulations on finally gettingto his knees. My electric blanket is ' through. Good luck. Keep in touch. waiting for you. SBO ' Mo P.S. Merry ChristmasLAA. Don't let anyone else scratch your i back. MDJ ' Merry Christmas to everyone from 1011 1 FlannerlWhlmpleton, Having given it much thought, I told Santa to forget the refund. Rosie,I'd love a smiling, rosy faced Whimple Merry everything to you! See you InBiimpie for Christmas. Whlmpiette Dallas? · StevieKen, Mike, Matt, Mike, Barb, Teddy, Georgia, Marjorie, George, Elsabeth, Hay McMannis!Ann, Eiiieen, Chuck, Ray, Jeannie, How many days does Lavender have left?Carol, Bill, Jane, Fltz, Jim, Charlie, Jim, Peggy, Betty, Kathy, Peg, Mary Ann, 'ny 'MannisChris, Cathy Oh-1 get by with a little help If you're real good....caramalsl!from my friends. Love, Barbara Happy Birthday, Kate-is the dog that had his paw slammed inHappy Birthday (a little early) ! . Want· the front door at Lemans Hall last week me to send over the wheelchair ? alright?Your roomie Call Kerry 4-4527.P.S. Merry Christmas and keep those fires burning. Peggy St. Nick: Merry Birthday wishes from Solo Amigo: The Boys of KeenanHappy Anniversary ! It's been a good year, and I hope we have many more. Mary,Te Ouiero, Happy 19th B-Day. You're not as old asThe Wolf you think. Love,Maria from Nicawawa, The Chicken Fat ClubHappy Belated B-day. Why didn't we show? We were only yoking around. Mary Clare,Love, You saved our lives. Thanks a lot.Four Miamians You're the greatest. The MBO GroupTo George Spohrer, Dear4NS: The Budgeteer is nice but I'm not one tpo George Spohrer, Dan 0·Neil, Sheila for contact sports as such.P. Pfister, and Eve Jehle, Here is a small personal for you. I 3ANS Stanford­don't want any more abuse. Now you You've been great sweethearts. K1111p guys owe. up the good work.Love, Love,Joan The Archway Cookies. Dear Timmy: After the OATS it's all over baby!Have a happy 21st birthday and Congrats remember Don't spoil it ! VI LISA Ail our love, ----------------------­MBandJ HEY "LOVE" IN 703b­SO THE MYSTERY IS OVER! HOPE Tim Kardok: YOU ENJOYED THE UN-VEILING AS Have a happpy birthday Sunday ! MUCH AS I DID. CAN WE DO IT AGAINLove, BUT THIS TIME WITHOUT BASEBALLBarb, Anita, Jenni &Annie BATS OR FOOTBALLS? THE "OBNOXIOUS" ONE.'----------------------­Linea Mazerou-TRY TO REMEMBER! Better late than never. Its great to be The weekend of Oct. 1 -the bear alive. gardens at Regina Hall. Did you accident­Happy Birthday. ly walk off with a blue windbreaker with Mike, Mike and Bill the emblem of St. John's University written on It? If so, please return It to ACCOUNTANTS! the Regina Hall Office. No questions Worried about what to wear to that asked. Big-Eight Interview? Call Mike Tree­marcki about his new line of floodpants, Gall­worn-out coaches' sneakers and razor A toast to tha future. My bast wishes stubble!! Congratulations, Mikey!! for your happiness. Congratulations on your graduation I Paul Rogalski is going to be 19 on Sat. Shrimp Roomies and Ople Usa and Susan Judd: Who Is God's gift to women who is going We'll be thinking ef you at the Cotton to be 19 on Sat? Bowl. Behave yourselves on your birthday! Happy 17th!! Who is the crazed rambler of Dillon hall Karen and Julia who is going to be 19 on Sat.? MADELINE COUTURE SAYS -No Who sleeps with black socks on and is woman should Ill without a manl .....so going to be 19 on Sat.? all you AVAILABLE man give MADELINE COUTURE 1 call TODAY! Who has an oversized beak and is going 4521 ....4521.....4521' ....4521.....4521 ..... to be 19 on Sat.? Dear Mom and Dad and Mary, Paul, Who has grooves in front of his mirror Tom, and Matt: and Is going to be 19 on Sat.? Here is your first personal. ~ur loving daughter/sister The happiest of Birthdays to Joe Evans. BARB Love The Fr. Sarin Lunch Club IF YOU'RE THAT 1 OUT OF 6 CALL BOB OR KEITH 8164... Mary Cherrie and Tags, Thanxs for the new doo!  CHRISTMAS PERSONALS • PAM WALDNER: Thinks for making Math Pro. as much fun 111 dot-to-dotl Merry ChristmasItl -Hay Bulent,,i That's BEWLENTI Such grief. Merry X-mas! You couldn't possibly guess who. Jimbo ­Wishing you the merriest Christmas. ever! JA CIEBIE KOCHAM! Trlsha (Jeanie's) Bill-Have the best Christmas in Dallas! Love, Patty Dear Yasamln: 1 Getting cl011r to that million dollars · avery day! Happy Holidays, Leigh KLIG, Every "UTILE" girl" should have sweets at Christmas and you're no exception. Will I fit in your stocking? Merry X-Mas! With ail my love, KLIGLIB Jenni, Anita and Annie, Merry Christmas guys! You're An· gels. Love and kisses, Barb Cathy:j To a faithful assistant who sometimes is thick as a brick, Merry Christmas and also a Happy Birthday. Hans To the OBSERVER Typists:l Have asafe and blessed holldat. See you next semester. First Issue Is T ursday so Wednesday people please be there! KC Kathy, Merry Christmas, kid. 1 more sames-tar, c'ast tout. R011mary. MLou, Fran, Barb, Martha, Datzman, Hadlock,Mary Clare, Mary Jordan, Ja­nat, Monica, Connie, Goober, Hubla, Sua, Sacco, Chris, Sharon, Janet, Walsh, Lynn, Mo, Mana, Marianne, Gayle, Laurie, Kathy, Twist, Margo and I hope we didn't forget anyone. Marry Christmas. Loughney and Ro Felices Navidades y Adios, Nena!fCarinas, "Bobbo" To Bill Mclean:j Who has made at least half of my final year a memorable one-Merry Christmas Martha Daddy,1Mommy wants adishwasher for Christ mas. Love Pumpkln-Gir1Merry Christmas Cohort, Hang in there until comps.Then we'. have a real Christmas party! Love and Kisses One-seventl KEN­FEBRUARY!! .....or sooner? Much love KARH Merry Christmas, BARB CORBETT! Santa love YOU. fondly, Kris Kringle Dear Sue, I've kissed who I pleased and hope I' pleased who I kissed. May the New Year bring you as mu happiness as you've brought me tl year. Merry (\llristmas, My love, Tr To Sr. Kathleen: The paper brings you your me exciting material. Now It brings you yo own message. Merry Christmas Mart. PCH, We'll share Christmas on your tre Lovealv. F To Sr. Jane-This is a Christmas Personal just !01 .. Merry, merry Christmas. It is also a aw Year personal so Happy New Year. Have fun in your travels over the holidays. LOVe, MlF TDH  Love Kltl ' Dear MOM DAD CHRIS LU CHRIS GREG, GAIL, MANNIE: ' ' MERRY CHRISTMAS....Iooklng tor-ward to a "BIG" bash at the padI Gat till boobs ready! Your college co·•ll Hey Little Girl, . Hope I get coal 1n my stocking or. $12.59 pius tax. Merry Christmas. The Red Caboose Denise "MIKE" Mlchlewlcz [314 Mc­Candless)­We love you! Merry Christmas!! Andy, Tom, Dave, Jim, Joe, Pete and Georg!J To Regina third North-Thanks for agreat semester. You gals ae rally something special. Will miss you next semester. Drop me aline in London, ok? Paula Ski: Merry Christmas and good luck In Dallas. Looking forward to seeing you down there and in CP. Your favorite neighbor. 'Bin 'VIn 'Der Merry Christmas Love, An Old Man Robin: Your last personal as an undergrad (you hope!) Congratulations. Much peace happiness and love. Johnny SANTA: Huskies over Michigan Phone for my favorite Ridgee. MTV Santa: Remember Farley's Sheila, Kathy, Kay­cee. Merry Christmas. Mike Nerf, Nok, and Hoff: May all your finches be merry! NODDY Pip, Care, and Woz, Pardon the unorlginailty but... Merry Christmas! Peace and Love, JJ Dear Mark Huard, 2 months 2 "blow-otis" 2 elves .....too many yahoo's me Dear Mark Huard, Thanks for the Xmas tr1111. Love, Darby Dear Mark Huard, -nice legs! (a little bowl-legged, but nice!) TO THE TWO BEST ROOMIES EVER: HOPE SANTA IS GOOD TO YOU AND HAVE A GREAT CHRISTMAS. THANKS FOR EVERYTHING! LOVE*MMA Ryan 'N Rademaker. Here's to the best door on campus -to say nothing of what's behind It -Merry Christmas. Nashville Dedrest Kellita: '.1erry Christmas! Keep 'em warm till March! Love, g.r. P.S. I'll miss IT too!( Dear Judd Family: rave a very merry Christmas and I am re~.iy looking forward to meeting you all! Love, Karen Nona Merry Christmas. I'll see you on 22nd. I'll call you If we beat UCLA. Dave Patty 0' Brian-Have a warm and fun X-mas with your family and then we'll live it up in 4ruston. Love, Kathleen e and Ceil: ·rry X-mas. Happy New Year. "220" Rummy 81 say­1pe you have a happy and fun-filled s-Don't do anything I wouldn't do. Love, MKB To Scott, Koz, Uttla Koz, Walt, Roxanne, Mark, Claude, Dave, lrv, Rick, Scott B., Jim B., Flave, Tom Ross, Tim, Jim, Mike S., Mike C., Jennifer, Lee, Jeff, Bill s., Krls, Kevin, even KRS*  have any tests before finals so live It upand have a great week-end! To Carol: May your days be merry and bright over the holidays. Try not to think of Miami (too much) Merry christmas to you and your "darling Mont" Martha Merry Christmas and "Happy nine­teenth" to the GIMP. Maybe Santa will let you have your cake and eat It too!! Love the Gerber Baby • Mariay, Germalney, Liuy, Ruthy, Mary Judy, Katy, Katly, and Anny­Merry Christmas Bobby Danny, John, Jim, Keith, Bob, Joe: Amazons make great stocking stuffers! THE Girls BB· Love to you on Christmas 12. Your malleable Mama Ann Margaret: Just pretend it's People Magazine's cover. Bob Redford Zelda Ray, You're stili number one, love, two, three, four and five. To Fr. Bill: As always klndas and kisses along with a Marry Christmas wish. Enjoy the holiday season and your Christmas weather. l.Dvll, Martha Sweets, You give me Christmas joy avery day. Sentimental lady Dear, Roses are red, violets are blue, I try so very hard, because with you I'm number two. My love to you this Christmas and always. Your rich girl Marry Christmas and thanks to St. Nichola Love, Kagel's Angels To my little Pal, Mighty Tom Hawk returns to Maine. Karen Nagai -Our very bast to you and your family for happy holldays....wa miss you, lady. Your adopted MOMS on 5RN Sandy, Vaiandtherestofthe "A" Squad Dancin' Irish, We really outdid you Monday nite with "Fiesta in Rio" but Merry Christmas anyway. Love, B-Squad 1011 Flannar: Merry Christmas and good luck on finals. Maybe next semester the light will be red. We'll be waiting! 239 Farley HEY FRED! Merry Christmas from Colorado Ginger Anyela, I m not sure whether muisic is in my system or my soul, but I'm sure about you! Merry Christmas Michael (Salty) 2221 BP's Southern Belle, Now that you've repaid the debt, do I get the Interest for X-mas? Hope so! Merry Christmas! The two-candle man "Foos"· Find a screen door and I'll bring the mistletoe! Merry Christmas! Typhoid Mary To fallow Observarltas ­Marry Christmas, everyone! Love, Barbara To Mom, Dad, Teresa and everyone elsa In KC, Merry Christmas and l'llsae you soon. Love, Barbara To Diane, Kate, Jan, Sally Druz, Joyce, Shiela, Joan, Eve, Connie, Robin, Jane, Nancy, Kathy, Sandy, Brian, George, Dan, John K., Vince, Tree, John M. and everyone else. Merry Christmas! Barbara Call: Thinks so much for everything. Hope your Christmas Is nice and next year 1 good one. Love, the News EdHors  
Pat, Happy 20th birthday. Have fun in Rome. We'll miss you. Love, Roomies.  LDDk In the red ornament! ALL MY LOVE, sws  Have a Merry Chrlstns [Jtarty]and a hippy New Yaar's Eve. See you In a month. Love, Barbara  
I  
I  
r  

---------------------------------~------------------------------------------------------------------.M~---------------------------------------­

"Hi~~riiJ;~_q;;,~~~~ fawt ~~~riday, December 9,.:...:.19:..:.7::.__7_____.tu..h...a~o,..b.,.s...a~a~rvL..K.Sau.r_--==. 
To the backwards mountie. Fred Kunzinger: 
1
What do fruitcakes have that you HAVE A VERY MERRY CHRISTMAS. Dear Plank, don't? You're every bit as sweet. Merry HOPE TO RUN INTO YOU IN DALLAS... Congratulations and Merry Christmas Sam and Chupe: Christmas. Best of luck on your interview with and Good Luck. Christmas is ooming 
Bic, Rose, Hot toes and Duck Texaco! Love, the goose is getting fat Karen C. Stupid if we don't find some housemates soon Bob Dumond-we' II have to pass the hat. 
When I get home shall we play in a HLB-Don't forget the "Rumours" at the To the WW's of Lyons and all the guys -Merry XMAS. snowdrift? Snow mobile? uust room for Atkinson Hotel! Stevie
MERRY CHRISTMAS! 

2) Not Texas but there must be a warm Jeff-Hope you find a substitute typist Joan (It doesn't make any sense to me either) place in Michi!~an. Mistle toe and Wine! and translator! Thank you for these wonderful months of Paul-IVIake sure Bi II does the dishes Waaalterrr
Bora: Don't say I never gave you a personal.

you. while I'm gone! Cheer up. Maybe'Santa will bring you a 
Love, How about this instead of a camera for
Jesse-Good luck on finding a loaded job for XMAS. If not, rome back and we'll
Christmas? Get small enough in Dallas to

Terri father-in-law! hire you to clean house and cook stew for
sit inside a cowboy hat!

Hank-Stay on the path of life, and "Keep us. HO HO HO Pete, Chris, D•enny, Brian. off the Grass!" Joan 
Let's dance! At the first annual Dan Duff-Don't forget the turtle races at the Bradford Memorial Christmas Party. It's Kumquat! To the Infamous "ALA" -Druggie: at 204 Lyons I!Ventually. Have a Merry I'm really gonna miss you guys next Remember your mission over Christmas Know you'll be a big hit wherever you
MERRY CHRISTMAS TO ALL EXCEPT

• TOOK WATCH. Christmas and a small new year. Love, semester[ Good luck and please write. break is to stay as separated from the end up working .•Best of luck.
WHOEVER MY 

204 Lyons Love, "Big B" as possible!!!
PLEASE! A MAN'S GOLD ACCUTRON. 
Merry Christmas,

PH P.S. Who's going to feedUNIQUE • NO FACE. PLEASE CALL 
Snuggley, Your Annex-mate,
3401. REWARD FOR INFORMATION. you're on your own? 
"Christmas is coming, Yeah I know Christmas is already upon Joan
NO QUESTIONS ASKED. 

And Grandma's !jetting fat. us. Ten minutes 'ch? Son. Do you like to O'Meara and O'Miller: 
Uncle Tony's drunk again, be 21? Expansive vocabulary or what. To Roomies Sheila Pand Dr. Jehle, Merr Happy, Happy XMAS XMAS (two ads
Dear Bill, 

He threw up in his hat..." That's good! Christmas and have fun at the Cotton for the price of one)wants be
Marce Mouse to in your Wish my X-mas was with you. Bowl! Dr.-tell your mother I'll see her in Stevie
stocking this Christmas and I'II do 

Love, tLirkey and mistletoe always, March, not New Years! Joan.
everything I can to see that she gets Kathy A., Rosemary H., Maureen C.,
Upper class twit Ad Staffers:
there. Can't wait to see you (maybe in Maureen F., Leslie M.: two weeks, five hours and twenty-three P.S. Only Y3 carat? 'w for the 'x on 'stmas 'k. To Mom and Dad: Congratulations on a helluva job this
Fremeau, Queen, David and Skippy­

minutes from now). Anonymous semester. Come to the Christmas Party 
I love you! Stumble Inn (and associates). Merry Christmas. and the beers are on me! Have X-mas in Columbia. Where life Paula: Love,
Marti sparkles of gold, and the girls don't grow Have the greatest time in merry old Queen old. England.' Send a postcard to your old Pa, Ma, Jim, Bon, T and Kris,

Where you're lost in a cloud, To Sandy, Rosemary, Frank, Sandy,
boss. See ya'll soon! 
Cuz the buzzes are loud. Ad Man. Tracy: 
John R. Happy X-mas, Merry Christmas and Happy New Karen:We hope Santa brings you all the Year. Good luck with the rest of the year.
Francine KLIG, Sit back and rest your fingers a sec.
bubble gum you want tor Christmas. MLF
Every "little girl" should have sweets Have a great Christmas and how bout a
two rein DEAR! 

Walt-1st Dm~n -at Christmas and you're no exception. date next semester?
To Joe, Steve, Paul, Bob and Leigh:Merry Christmas from, Will I fit in your stocking?

Mary and Madeline: not so anonymous Merry X-mas! Merry Christmas as you face the It's been quite a semester. Have a holiday season with at least one night
With all my love, Ad Man: you Big
Merry Christmas and see in Bruce and Bruce, KLIGLIB free. Only if you PROMISE not to smoke that
"D". Happy new Year.
Home to family for the holdiays, BEASTY cigar!!!!! See you in Dallas!
Julie To eat and drink and snooze with them, Dear Kfiglib: MLF Cuz as JC onoe had siad, 1've already got what I want for Merry Christmas and Happy New Year to
5th Floor Regina North [OLD AND "Sure beats Passover in Jerusalem." Christmas. The present Santa gave me Hammer-all my great "buddies" in StudentNEW]: Bye-bye, you <:heap tarts from the lower last year is still holding up -there are Very Merry Christmas to the best. Government and Student Union.
We hope you have the merriest east end. I love you. Love,
some things that are made to last. I love
Christmas ever, and we will be waiting Vince Snetterton-Lewis you. B. for you all next semester. Hope Santa is 
KLIG

good to you! Steve "AMTRAK" Horak, Jean, Susie, Chris -Jim Riedman,MOMS I hear Santa Claus is really a porter. Observer Staff and Friends, Merry Christmas Guys -Hope Santa brings you lots of Friends And that man is HUNGRY! Having friends like you is one of the Your ever, for Christmas. 
Puerto Rican Upholsterer-Merry Christ­Happy X-mas, Loving roommate Michelle and Diane.
nicest things about Christmas. Have a
mas! -I'll miss you ... 

AVirgin happy hoi iday.
The strong one Danny-
Love, DEAR JULIE AND PAM: Ted Twardzik, "O.Mom" Merry Christmas. I have bean a VERY good girl. ForSnake-In my opinion, you'll always be classed Love, Christmas I would like Ken, a non­
Hope you don't get frostbite on your with the greatllst British rock stars: John Tony, Kath smoking roommate, Projective and Eucli­long slither home to Boston! Enjoy Lennon, Robert Fripp, Bill Bruford, and The end is in sight-thank God! I'm glad dean Geometry, and Dr. B ....... Christmas. See you in January. Frank Laurino. Have a happy X-mas. we pulled through together. Merry Peggy McDaniel and Kathy Rork­A "GOOD" Girl
Git Alan White Christmas. Maybe if 'you're good Santa Merry Christmas to the best ­
P.S. Happy Birthday on the 21st. MB
will give you a dolly. TO THE WilD BUNCH: Congrats to Woody and Bubbles! When Buddman -something good out of 'LongNeeded: is the big day? Roomies: Danny 0'Leary -Distance Love'
2 Riders need a ride to the St. Louis or Love, The last issue of the semester. Maybe Merry Christmas --who's
Leo " .... a woman a little of

Southern Ill. area call Betsy 4-4184. From,
Already Married now I'll get some sleep AT NIGHT. both.. " 
P.S. Howdy is a member of the SLA! Thanks for putting up with me and the TC Rawbutt-a car that lasts longer thanSmitty and Miss D: 
phone calls. pumpkin or Tom A. ToMerry Christmas Jen and Pandi: Cowboy, Sundance, Max-Marco -alumni status to Marquette
two fantastic roomies Have a Very Merry Christmas.
1will be crying in the sunshine (he-he) A tutti nostri amichi Buon Glorno e Buon Oom-Conservative ties and... Frank!
Annie missing you two nuts over break. Jen, Natale da Roma, KD e Mara. Maribeth Hogie-Cosmic Rays! (again)next semester will be "excellent" I love AND FRIENDS-Ed Breath and MW ­
Lory Kerger: you lady. Dr. and Mrs. T -Kevin O'Hara-buzzbuzzbuzzbuzzbuzz
Someday I might run into you, but if I Have a Merry Christmas.
"Your roomie" Glad Santa's taking a trip to the Top of Val-a more bearable South Bend
don't have a Merry Christmas. May your H&B
the VIllage. Fr. Dave -Bigger office
stocking runneth over! CD Wolf-
Thanks Zurcher -John HopkinsJJ Hope you have a super Christmas. Four Christmas Elves Tansey, Jack and Mark -Ray Duran -an D-36 Louisville team 
Thanks again for last Friday. Sorry your Have a very Merry Christmas. Blackwell-steadiness
Leigh, Judy, Connie, Sue, Jerry, George, proclamation was vetoed. Love, Love,
To all our good buddies who made this Cathy Cu. -a nice semester off
Andy, Tom, Don: Bun B.
semester so memorable (?) -Joe Burns-nice marria~eMERRY CHRISTMAS! Have a safe 
Merry Christmas to all ya'all. Enjoyed Daaave Me-more bowling
and happy holiday!! 204 Lyons-
Joe Shick: knowing you this fall and if you ever need Lisa B.-a score to the tune "LisaBecker­"RING MY" Have a nice X-mas. a pal just give us a call. Merry Christmas -LisaBeckerlisaBecker". 
Love -Your vory own GOLDEN BEAR. Mitch and Diane. Love, Joe c. Your Observer Connection 
DINING HALL TYPESHope Santa can find the Continuing 
Furms: To all my fans (both of you),
Center for Education's chimney. [Is there Pandi made reservations to Florida for Kevin Walsh-
Merry Christmas Bob Brennan -lead man and (still) a
onem] Have a Marry Christmas. X-mas break lor himself. He loves you Have a Merry Christmas or else I'm
MtheJ political view that makes sense.
J. Me too. calling the oops.
sugar. also-a good CPA job (I ain't all cruel)
Jen. Signed­
Derelict, Mary Me-endless reasons to keep that
TOMMY: Tuesday
Merry Christmas and may the blue bird pleasant smile on your faceWe promise you a GOOD TIME in 
To the men of 823-of happiness build a nest to keep your Joannanne D. -lemon drops and
NEW ORLEANS at Pat O'B's! Have a Ann, Lizzie, Kate -RA
Stockings are Red fuzzy catepillar warm. Hope Santa's as automatic letter writer
Merry Ho-Ho HOI II Maria, Germaine,
Ribbons are blue nice to you as we are. Michelle -2 more years of passing
Merry Christmas

If you drop trow Mitch and Dee Pete T. -everything you deserveRick, Santa wi II too! Love, Paul -a lousy Red Sox teamHappy 21st old man. You may be an Have a very Merry X-mas. How 'bout you Anne Patrice••• Ruth Anne Bender-asense of priority -get back to
oldee but you're a goodie. 

Love-Katy Merry Christmas!
Merry Christmas P.S. Maybe I'II get a cot from Santa! Love, 217 Dillon: the dining hallYour Spinning Partner My Family; My friends -I love you.
Leigh Kevin -another twin 
Jen and Pat-Merry Christmas. 
to the others -atouch of crazinessCAMPUS VIEW 107: · 
Hope you t1oth have a Happy X-mas G.P.. Sir, Love, to the ladies and cooks --a good '78
We wish you a merry Christmas......... Your 4th roomie
and New Year. Love-Santa said you've been VERY good and Tim-more good times the Brqwnie O.D.'r will get everything you wanted for 
Doug:

Christmas. Greg, howdia you fool Santa? ROOKIES
anii.THE.sHRiMi>.wii.'L'sE.Fi.:vii·iaiN J.J. P. Murphy:, Your fans 1OOOx Better than the purple chest. NEXT SEMESTER! Merry Christmas.
I wish I could find you underneath the P.S. MERRY Christmas and HAPPY New Julie-jump
BOOTS AND THE "BELLE" tree, for somet "dancin and romancin!" Year! Kathy Beth-less interceptionsHave a great IJreak John. Michelle -somebody worht It
Dec. 9, 1977 Love, Mike Lahrman: , Marry Christmas to Mom-
Gina-easy courses, ducklings
Patty Nuovo-Have a great day! Thanks for making our office pleasant,
Patti Merry Christmas and·drop dead Jan. 2. Sheila-back seats
Kris Kringle decorative and beautiful thru your contri­
Mollie-primal energy
To Griff: butions and oresence. Enjoy the holidays
Patty and Cathy -Mary -Barbie Doll 
care till Januarv.

Man petit chou -Merry Christmas. lv\ay you tee1 as Merry Christmas. Now you both have a and take Terry -more playing time {sorry about
Bon Anniversaire much joy and 11appiness in this Season as personal. See ya in Jan. · fhe Observer Staff last year)
Notre Petite fleur. you have given to others through the Diane Kathy -jump shot University Cinristmas tree, cnildren's Koral and John: party and December Graduate Dinner. Thanks for the sharing, the fun, the
Murderers, ~ Betsy and Ellen, , OBSERVER TYPES
Thank you. The flowers and candy stay in the infirmary.
With love. Hope you both have agreat Christmas.
really helped to ease the pain of our loss. Love,
MLF E-things will look better -just smile! B­Pat Cole -Newsweek
You sure know the way to a girl's heart. Roommate
have fun in Texas, fall be thinking of ya! Martha -a job in Boston
Indiana Belles Johnny, Timmy, Billy. Teddy, Petey: Dee Joan F. -more cute hats
Francie, Nancy, Sue and Lorretta Hope you have a "small" Christmas Ceil, Maureen S-Job in LA and a "SMALLER" New Year's. 
Merriest XMAS [second semester will

RB 3-Bob B-more than an Asst. Man. Ed.
Unfaithful one: Love, be a lot easier]
Merry Christmas and good luck in the typists-less lines
Have a very happy 19th birthday on Janiney, Bethy and Joycey AdMan
Bowl game. Hope to see ya' again next Barbara-job, luck, the best In DC, SF orDecember 21st. Also have a great semester. anywhere
Christma break and Christmas. I'II be Mclean: Diane and Michelle. Nancy, Kris, Marcia:
thinking about you. Couldn't afford to put this in a box of We still 'sh you a 'ry 'stmas and a 'py From,Love, its own, but I did want to wish you a 'w ·r.
JOHN: a Long Island Yankee in King Cotton's
"Air-head" Merry XMas and the best of luck for all 
Yes your. More fun th_an at MM, huh? -----------­Court 
your future bcirgaining sessions. 

Merry Christmas, Merry X-mas, good luck and Taka It 
Marry Christmas gorms, Jeff, Ted, 4NS, AD MAN W/B [me] Merry Christmas, Happy New Year to all. Easy.Nags, Archway Cookies, Timmer, PP, Campus Ministry 
Isn't It a Long Way Home? -~G.B. and Booby. Me neither, Stevia! .....kc --------­love Therese x-Mas Gifts T'"''~, •n 
--~~11.(1-.:11~~,~~':4·;~~~ ~~~--b'-~.-:!i<'*"oti'~~~hc· ~~~~,-~~~~~'4::Jt.',.-~~~ :."'. ~~~ bt b~-·· 

~-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~----------------------------------~--~­
24 the observer Friday, December 9, 1977 
Campbell captures Heisman 

NEW YORK (API -Earl Camp­bell, a 220-pounder whose powerful record-breaking running led the University of Texas to a perfect regular season record and the No. 1 · national ranking, won the Reisman Trophy Thursday night as the outstanding college football player in the country for the 1977 season. 
Campbell, one of 11 children ­two brothers also play for Texas­whose widowed mother tried to persuade him not to play high school football in Tyler, Texas, won the Reisman over Oklahoma State running-back Terry Miller and Notre Dame tight end Ken Mac­Afee. 
"Everybody has dreams," said Campbell, "and for me this year has been a dream come true." 
The 43rd annual Reisman Trophy was presented to Campbell a 6-foot-1 senior, at a $65-a-plate black tie dinner in the grand ballroom of the New York Hilton Hotel. 
The affair was nationally televis­ed for the first time by CBS, in an hour-long spectacular: a commer­cialization of the prestigious Reis­man Trophy by the sponsoring Downtown Athletic Club of New York which drew a good deal of criticism. 
Campbell's margin of victory was not announct:d nor was the 
runnerup named, although it was 

announced that Campbell, Miller 
and MacAfee were the top three 
vote-getters. A spokesman for the 
Downtown Athletic Oub said the 

accounting firm of Harris, Kerr, 
Forster and Co. only made avail­

able the name of the winner. 
Indications were that the vote totals would not be available until today.. 
Campbell became the 27th run­ning back to capture the Reisman, which was first awarded in 193S. 
The approximately 1,0SO mem­bers of the media from coast to coast who took part in the 1977 Reisman balloting went for Camp­bell after he became the leading ground-gainer in the history of the University of Texas and the South­west Conference. 
During the recently completed regular season, he led the nation in rushing with 1, 744 yards and in scoring with 114 points. 
In accepting the award, Camp­bell thanked his teammates for helping him win it. He added: "I thought about what a Reisman Trophy would mean to me if I won the award, and I tell you, I'll do everything in my power to repre­sent the Trophy. It took a lot of hard work. I really can't say thanks to just one person because so many people were involved, but I will represent what a Reisman Trophy winner should be. Thank you very much." 
In addition to the Reisman, six 
new sister awards were presented 
to some of the nation's outstanding 
players. 
Campbell, of course, also was named the top running back over Miller and Charles Alexander of Louisiana State. 
MacAfee was voted the top offensive end over Wes Chandler of Florida, and Ozzie Newsome of Alabama, while tackle Chris Ward of Ohio State was named the No. 1 offensive lineman over Michigan guard Mark Donahue and Mac­Afee. 
Ross Browner, MacAfee's Notre Dame teammate,. was named the top defensive lineman, beating Texas tackle Brad Shearer and Kentucky end Art Still. 
The top linebacker trophy went to UCLA All-American Jerry Rob­inson over Tom Cousineau of Ohio State and Gary Spani of Kansas State, while Zac Henderson of Oklahoma was voted the top defen­sive back over Luther Bradley of Although the final point totals were not announced, Notre Dame's Notre Dame and Dennis Thurman Ken MacAfee finished among the top three in the Heisman Trophy, of Southern California. race. 
Irish invade UCLA's Pauley Pavilion 
by Frank LaGrotta Sports Writer 
Notre Dame's basketball team is S-0. They've disposed of every victim they've encountered thus far with relative ease...and of course they boast impressive stats. Why, one would think that Digger Phelps 
could take a second and pat himself 
and his team on the back. Well? 
Sorry guys, not this weekend. 
John W. Pauley Pavilion is 
definitely not the place to start resttng on Jaurels. One of those 10 National Championship banners that auspiciously hang from the rafters might fall on your head. Or, even worse, Johnny Wooden (Didn't he retire?) might zap you with his magic wand.(He does have a magic wand, doesn't he?) 
Now, even if none of those things happen, a team that chooses to invade the Westwood campus still has a fine Bruin team to contend with. That, in all like! i hood, will be Phelps' biggest problem Satur­day night as he and his troops attempt to do what no other team bas ever done-beat UCLA in Pauley Pavilion twice in a row. Now, hold on a minute...don't faint or think you read that wrong because an Irish victory tomorrow night is quite possible but, don't buy your victory-party beer too soon because it won't be easy. 

Boasting a 4-0 record (wins coming at the expense of Brigham Young University, 7S-73; Seattle, 106-73; Colorado, 104-70; and Santa Clara, 88-79) the Bruins have impressive credentials of their own and you can bet your G.P.A. that they're still seething over that 66-63 sacrilege which occured at their temple a year ago. (That was only the fourth time the Bruins had lost at Pauley since the building had opened 12 years hence.) The big gun for rookie coach Gary Cunmngham will be 6-10 Dave Greenwood. The junior forward has been scoring at a 17.S-per game clip and hauling down 10.3 rebounds a game. Greenwood, points out Phelps, should be Notre Dame's number one nemesis. 
"UCLA employs a very success­ful fast break and their guards penetrate very well. However, their bread and butter man is Greenwood and we expect an important part of their game plan to center around Greenwood and their ability to get the ball to him." 
Joining Greenwood in the front­court will be 6-7 forward Kiki Vandeweghe and 6-9 center Gig Sims. Vandeweghe has been a pleasant surprise for Bruin follow­ers thus far this season. The hardworking sophomore, who averaged only 3.6 points per game last year is presently tallying 12.8 a game while leading the squad in FG percentage hitting 67 percent of his attempts. 
Roy Hamilton and Raymond Townsend will handle the back­court chores for the Bruins as they have done all season. Hamilton is presently tied with Greenwood as the team's leading scorer with 17.S points per contest while Townsend has contributed 13 points a game to the Bruin attack. The Bruins want for little on theirbench where 6-3 
~un!or  guard  Brad  Holland,  6-9  
Jumor  Darrell  Allums  and  6-7  
sophomore  James  Wilkes  sit  

waiting to give the starting five a breather. 
The big question for the Irish is the status of sophomore guard Rich Branning. Branning suffered a sprained ankle against Lafayette last Monday and did not dress Wednesday night at Northwestern. 
He is listed as questionable and according to Phelps there's a "SO-SO" chance he'll play. Should Branning not be ready, his likely replacement will be Jeff Carpenter who filled in admirably for Bran­ning against Northwestern. Fresh­man guard Stan W\lcox should also see considerable action at the point. 
Filling the remaining backcourt spot will be Irish scoring ace, Don "Duck" Williams. With an 18.4 per-game average that is largely a 
Observer Sports Bowl Picks 
Independence Bowl December 17 Liberty Bowl December 19 Hall of Fame Classic December 22 Tangerine Bowl December 23 Fiesta Bowl December 2S 
··­

Gator Bowl December 30 
Peach Bowl ' December 31 
Sun Bowl December 31 
Bluebonnet Bowl December31 Cotton Bowl January 2 Sugar Bowl January 2 Rose Bowl January 2 Orange Bowl January 2 Louisville vs. Louisiana Tech North Carolina vs. Nebraska Maryland vs. Minnesota Florida State vs. Texas Tech Arizona State vs. Penn State Pittsbu~gh vs. Clemson North Carolina State vs. Iowa State Stanford vs. Louisiana State Texas A&M vs. Southern California Texas vs. Notre Dame Ohio State vs. Alabama Washington vs. Michigan Oklahoma vs. Arkansas 

§ 
§"' .v t:: 

.... 
.& ::>. l 6 !! 
:;:, c€ 
~ 0

"' .$;
:=;­
~ 
f! 
~ l ~ u 
LT
UL 
LT 
LT 
by 6 
by 3
by 3 

by 1 
UN
UN 
UN 

UN 
by 6 
by 10
by 10 

by 6 
UM
Minn
Minn 

UM 
by 6 
by 2
by 6 

by 4 
IT
FSU
IT 
IT 
by 6
by 3
by 7 

by s 
PSU
· PSU
PSU 

PSU 
by 6 
by 6
by 9 

by 9 
Pitt
cu 
Pitt 

Pitt 
by 6
by 10 
by 3 

by 7 
NCS
ISU
NCS 

ISU 
by 6
by 7
by 2 

by 2 
su
LSU
su 

LSU 
by 6
by s
by 6 

by 4 
usc .. 
usc
usc 

usc 
by 6
by 10
by 7 

by 6 
ND
ND 
N!> 
ND 
by 6
by 3
by 12 

by 2 
osu
osu
osu 
UA 
by 6 
Qy 10
by '3 

by 8 
UM
.UM 
UM 

UM 
by 6
by s
by 14 

by 11 
ou
ou
ou 
ou 
by 6 
by 21
by 7 

by 1S 
result of an incredible outside shot, Phelps will be relying heavily on the 6-3 senior to "put'em on the scoreboard." 
Battling the Bruins' frontline contingent will be forwads Dave Batton and Bruce Flowers and center Bill LaimbPer. When this trio is on the floor, Notre Dame enjoys a front that averages 6-foot nine inches and, as a result of this, the Irish have dominated their opponents off the boards to the tune of 42 to 30 every game. With rlatton averagtng 13 points a game and Laimbeer and Flowers chip­ping in 9 and 6 points per game respectively, Digger carl rely on his big men for points as well as rebounds. 
Believe me, Digger isn't hurting for bench strength. Sophomore forward Bill Hanzlik along with a fine pack of freshmen led by 6-7 Kelly Tripucka (who is presently the team's third leading scorer with a 12.4 per-game average) have amassed quite a lot of playing time this season and have made a solid contribution to the Irish onslaught. 
Needless to say, both Phelps and Cunningham are looking forward to what promises to be a classic battle between two very good basketball teams. 
''Notre Dame is big, strong and experienced," Cunningham 
g
§ 'll t::
e 
~ § 0 .§tJ .:] 
~ 
'1 :: 
.s, -o ~ R/J
f! C'
6 t8 Li:, 


LT 
LT
UL 
LT UL
LT
UL UL 

by 1 
by 9
by 3 
by 7 
by 21
by 1S
by 3by 14 

UN 
UN
UN 
UN 
UN
UN
UNUN 

by 11 
by 20 
by 14
by 14 
by 17
by 10
by 10 by 18 

Minn 
UM
Minn 
Minn 
Minn
Minn
UMMinn 

by 3 
by 3
by 7 
by 10 
by 3
by 1
by 10by 3 

IT 
IT
IT 
TI 
IT
TI
FSU
IT 

by 17 
by 10
by 10
by 10 
by 7
by 13
by 7by 6 

PSU 
PSU 
PSU
PSU 
PSU
PSU
PSUASU 

by 10 
by 7
by 3
by 14 
by 6
by 14
by 14by 21 

cu
cu 
Pitt 
cu 
Pitt
cu
cucu 

by 3 
by 14 
by 4
by 7 
by s
by 6
by 3by 3 

Isu 
NCS 
ISU
ISU
NCS
NCS
NCSNCS 

by 3 
by 6 
by 13
by 7 
by s
by 3
by 6by 1 

su 
su
su 
su
su
LSU
LSU
su 

by 3 
by 13 
by 6 
by 10
by 7
by 6 
by 3by 7. 

A&M 
usc 
A&M
usc
usc 
A&M
usc
A&M 

by 21 
by 2
by 7 
by 3
by 10 
by'
by 7by 2 

ND 
UT 
ND
ND
ND 
ND
NDND 

by 11 
by 14
by 3
by 6 
by 13
by 1 
by 7
by 6 

osu 
osu
osu 
UA
UA
UA
osuosu 

by 7 
by 14 
by 3
by 7
by 7
by 3
by 3by 1 

UM 
wu 
UM
UM 
UM
UM
UMUM 

by 14
by 17. 
by 11
by 3
by 14 
by 3
by)O
by 10 

UA 
ou
ou
UA
ou 
ou
UA ou 

by 4 
by 9
by 21
by 3 
by 6 
by 10 
by 4 by 7 relayed. "They have no visible weaknesses. They run their offense very well and they play a tough, pressure man-to-man defense. They're one of the outstanding teams in the country." 

Phelps, also speaks highly of his opponent and cites controlling the game's tempo through a strong running game and dominating the boards as the two things his squad must do to come away with their s!xth victory in as many starts. 
[continued on page 21) 
Sports lns1de 
Wrestlers host Valparaiso by Brian Beglane page 20 
Swimming report by Leigh Tunakan page 20 
Irish gridders honored by Paul Stevenson page 21 
Christmas gifts page 21 

-2
!r
/!1 
~ 
~ 
.&
S> t:: 
~ 
~ 

' I 
L_ ___ ­





