
server 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's 
Wednesday, Febnury 23, 1977 

Vol. ~1, No~ 86 
O'Neil seeks support from Hall Council 
by Bob Vuretone immediately. You still ·have x­Staff Reporter amount of advertising for x-amount of pages." -The HPC also heard Mike Gass­
Tom O'Neil , Observer Edi­man, student body president, re­tor-in Chief, asked the hall presi­port the results of the LaFortunederrts to· support the proposed student center survey.
Observer fee increase at last night's "Nearly everyone thought LaFor­HPC meeting in Morrissey Hall. 
tune was used well as space forO'Neil r~sponded to the anony­student government and publica­mous posters which claimed the tions," Gassman reported, "butObserver didn't deserve the in­less thlln 10 percent thought it's crease. The posters charged that been used to advantage for socialthe Observer has wasted its exist­space and recreation." .

ing money on high salaries, parties Gassman said almost 95 percentand mismanagemnent. 
of the students wanted laundry"The poster is full of things that machines in LaFortune. He alsoare distorted and exaggerated," said 80 percent favored the instal­O'Neil said. 

lation of some sort of 24 hour bank O'Neil explained where the salary machine.

money went and he added that Other ideas that students sug­salary costs have been cut by gested, Gassman said, were to$7,000 from last year. He said that open a 24-hourcoffeehouse and alsoObserver parties are the only way a bowling alley. Gassman saidhe can pay back -reporters and sketches of some proposals forproduction workers who work for LaFortune will eventually befree. 
brought to Bro. Just Paczesny,O'Neil reported to the HPC the vice-president of student affairs. 

results of an audit which showed Members of the SLC also report­the Observer would lose over ed that Paczesny had turned down$18,000 this semester. He said their proposal to renovate the Redmuch of this total is the result of a Bam, an old house located near D-1debt which has accumulated over parking lot. Charles Moran, repre­the last three .years. 
senting the SLC, had offeredThe University co-Paczesny a plan to renovate the Redsigned a loan to keep the Observer 

Barn so that it could be used for WASHINGTON AP • Lawyers for story of the Cubans,"he said. "For weekend.
going this semester, he added. But social space and summer storage former President Richard M. people to really grasp the ·full Hunt had been scheduled forO'Neil urged the HPC to support a space. Nixon's 1972 campaign fund have reason they believed what they did release on parole on Wednesday, in petition which would allow the Kathy Kane, president of Walsh, agreed to pay $200,000 in an you have to see the CIA records." time to appear as a witness in theObserver to raise its subscription read a letter from Paczesny which out-of-court legal settlement to four Hunt knew the Cubans from his civil trial. He had served enough of rates for next year. 
gave seven reasons for the rejec­men recruited for the original CIA days. He recruited three ofthe a 30-month to 8-year term for his"If we do not get the increase," tion. Paczesny' s reply was on behalf Watergl}te burglary. four men for the 1971 break-in by break-in
O'Neil said, "we'regoing to have to part in the original to 
of all the officers of the University. "This settlement provides what the White House plumbers against qualify for parole and release from cut down the number of publica­
tions or close down next year Paczesny said the Red Barn was we have been saying along, that Daniel Ellsberg's psychiatrist. the federal prison camp at Eglin altogether.'' in deplorable condition. He said it the Cubans were tricked into Then later, iie again asked them AFB in Florida. would take $201,000 to restore. Hunt's release will leave only
O'Neil was asked how much participating in the Watergate for help on the Watergate burglary. 
for Liddy among the original Water­
money could be saved this year by "Summer storage student entries," their lawyer, Daniel But Schultze said the CIA records 
furniture, "Paczesny'sletter added, Schultze,. said Tuesday. gate defendants still in prison. He
publishing only three times a week. would show far more-than their 
"is a luxury that the University is serving a six-year, eight-month
"I think absolutely none will be The civil case had been sched­earlier association with Hunt. He 
does not feel compelled to accomo-to 20-years term after refusing to
saved," O'Neil said. "In the long uled to go on trial Th!irsday before would not elaborate, citing the run you'll have savings, but not [contlnued on page 7] U.S. District Judge Charles secret classification of the records, plead guilty and going to trial. 
The seventh defendant, James W.

Richey. which would have been made 
--------------public in court. McCord Jr., served four months 
The original lawsuit filed by 
and now lives in Fort Collins, Colo. 

Bernard L. Barker, Eugenio In its last report filed with the In a subsequent Watergate trial,Martinez Virgilio Gonzalez and Federal Election Commission, the four senior Nixon administration Frank Sturgis asked $2 million Liquidiation Trust showed a bal­officials including Mitchell were 
dollars in damages, mainly from anceif $1.2 million. 
convicted of joining a conspiracy to 

former officials of the 1972 Com­
The $50,000 settlement for each cover up the original break-in. 
mittee to Re-elect the President. 

of ~the Miami men will come from Among them, only former White "The only drawback is that that balance, Schultze said. The House aide John D. Ehrlichman is people will never know the full agreement was reached over the currently in prison. 
SMC Board of Regents meet 
by Brlgid Rafferty applied toward recreational operating expenses, equipment, and the salary of an athletic director, Construction progress of the new athletic facility, who will supervise intramural and recreation sports
budget changes for the 1977-78 academic year, and and be responsible for atitletic facility activities. the approval of honorary degree recipients were Duggan concluded that the College's financial among the issues discussed at the St. Mary's situation for this year is "extremelv ~ood." College Board of Regents meeting held Feb. 18-19 
The board approved the bestowing of honorary 
on campus. . 
degrees for the Most Reverend William E. 
According to Dr. John M. Duggan, College 
~cManus, Bishop of this diocese, Mary Elizabeth 
president, the Building Committee reported that 
Tidball, who has conducted research on the success 
construction is three months behind schedule, due 
of women'~ college grac:Juates, and Margaret Hillis, 
to weather conditions and material delays, but that 
the director of the Chicago Symphony Choir. One 
the building will be ready for use in the summer. 
other recipient has been approved, but is awaiting
Over $1 million of the building's $1.8 million budget 
confirmation. A program for :1 new library was also has been raised to date. 
discussed by the bo:.rd, but a proposal will not be We're planning ceremony May 1 as submitted until the May boar<! meeting. "We have
a on a Marti Hogan was elected Editor­communications between Notre dedication, to coincide with the community open 
to get a definition of space needed and how to use itin Chief of the Notre Dame-Saint Dame and St. Mary's in the coming house then," addeci Duggan. "It will be something first," said Duggan. The board authorized
Mary's Observer last night by a year. She hopes to unify the for this year's seniors to participate in. The official President Duggan to complete negotiations with the majority vote of the editorial board departments within the newspaper dedication of the building will be held during 
University of Notre Dame for the establishment of a
and night editors. and better the paper's "rapport September." 
cooperative engineering program between the two 
with the students." The Finance Committee presented a five-year institutions.
Hogan, a St. Mary's jumor. 
Hogan said that she is open to financial forecast of projected income and' expenses 
English major from Yardley, Penn­Duggan presented the plans for a potential
suggestions from students from of the College, and approved the budget for next
sylvania, is the first woman and St. sophomore year of study at St. Patrick's College,
both Notre Dame and St. Mary's as year. "It calls for faculty salary increa3es, which
Mary's student to be elected to the Maynooth, Ireland, to the board. "It will be an position of Observer Editor-in-experimental year," explained Duggan, "with . a 
to how to better the Observer next will average 7.5 percent, and increases in fees," year. She can be contacted either stated Duggan.
-Chief. "She will assume the position limited number of studtJ1ts from St. Mary's and 
at the Observer Office or at her Tuition will rise $150, while room and board will
March 22. 1977. Notre Dame. If it is succe'ssful, we will consider an 
home phone number (4) 4687 if ittcrease $70. There will be a combined activity­enlarged program."Hogan expects to better the anyone has suggestions to offer. recreation fee of $50 per semester, which will be [continued on page 2] 


'' ._. 
~-------~-----­
the observer Wednesday, February 23, 1977 
~----~~~~~~~~---------­
---On Campus Today---.. Regents meet at St. Mary's 
[contlnned Jfrom page 11 In addition to a development resloution thanking students for 8:30am-lecture, "the land of israel in jewish theology," by An information session tor inter­seminar for all regents, in which the success of the meeting week­michael wyschogrod, sponsored by the center for the 
ested students will be held soon. techniques for fund-raising were end. study of judaism and christianity, rare book room, 
He also presented some favorable explained, a liturgy for the regents, The 27 members of the Board of library impressions of the Rome program involving students, was held dur­Regents, who include the president 9-11 am ­of study to the board. ing the weekend. "It was a of the College,_ one faculty mem­1-3 pm-blood drive, for all students who wish to participate, The reorganization of staff in the 'Celebration Liturgy' ", stated ber, one student, sisters of theinfirmary 
office of Student Affairs, and Duggan, "To thank God for the .Holy Cross, the president of the description of types of services blessings that have been bestowed alumnae association, and various 
12:15 pm· seminar, "delayed hypersensitivity and cell-mediated provided was explained to the on St. Mary's College each regent lay people, are given the responsi­immunity," by samuel b. salvin, sponsored by the Student Life Cominittee of the also had a student hostess who took bility of overseeing the operation of microbiology dept., galvin aud. 
board by Dr. Kathleen Rice, dean him to lunch with other students. the College in accordance with its of students. A student reception for the board goal and philosophy. The next 
12:15 pm-mass,father griffin, Iafortune ballroom 
Reports 0111 work by the commit­members was held after the lit­meeting ofthe Board is May 13 and tees of the Academic Council in the urgy." The board passed a 14, 1977. 
3:30pm-lecture, "carter, keynes and marx: the political and 
areas of liberal arts in the core­

economic prospects for the remainder of the 1970's", 
ND-SMC THEATRE TRYOUTS
requirements, the intellectual cli­

by dr. leonard rapping, sponsored by dept. of 
mate, faculty governance, basic 

Fiddler On The Roof
economics, hayes-healy aud., room 122 
skills, and the Catholic and wo­men's dimensions of St. Mary's 

Singers-Actors..Dancers
5 ;15 pm -mass, for all the world hunger coalition tasters, 
College wen~ also given. The board 

everyone welcome, walsh chapel 
Sun Feb. 27, 5-9 pm Mon Feb. 28, 7 -10pm
approved Duggan's recommenda­


ln 0' La~ghlin Aud. By Apoointment Only
ca1r 284 -4141 
Audition Materials Available SPDR Off. Rm. 110 Moreau (SMC) SPDR Off. Washinoton Hall U..JD) 
OPEN TO ALL ~U-SMC STUDENTS 
KEN'S DEN 
--HAl R STYLING -­MEN &WOMEN ACROSS FROM 100 CENTER 
(LINCOLNWAY WEST IN .MISHAWAKA) PHONE 255-6500 APPOINTMENTS PREFERRED 

The Observer is pubi,.;hed Monday through Fri.day and weekly during the summer session, except during the exam and vacation-periods. The Observer is published by students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's. College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $20 per year ($10 per semester) from The Obser-. ver. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction nghh are re~erved 
+ year. The jc>b is· a + 
+ salaried posi1tion that : : offers very good exp1erience. + : Submit cover letter & resume at : 
+Observer office by Friday : 
+ Thank you. t
..............~~····· 
I 9.' ',
I • 

.••
, . ' ' . j 
........_,..­

Wednesday,February 23, 1977 the observer 
On this page are the platforms of all 9 candidates for next year's SBP and SBVP at Notre
ND SBP-SBVP 
Dame, as reported by the Observer political staff. Placement of the stories on the page was 
absolutely random. In fairness to all the candidates, no photos were run, since pictures of two of 
the tickets were not available. As the debates, and then the election, progress in the near future,
Campaign Platforms '77 
watch for these events to be -reported on page 3 of The Observer. 
Talbot Hughes 
by Gregg B. Bangs Political Editor 
The ticket of John Talbot and Jim Hughes believes Student Govern­ment must be the overall coordina­tor of all campus activities and programs, because it gathers infor­mation from all over campus and can use this information to make all ·sponsored activities a success. 

They think the present Student Government administration is inef­fective because of a lack of coopera­tion and inability to work together on the parts of Student Govern­ment and Student Union, and because of squabbles within Stu­dent Government itself. 
However, they feel the present structure of the organization itself is sound and ca,n be brought around to become an efficient body. The formation of any more decision­making bodies would just form more red tape and provide even less representation of the student body, according to the two. 
PresidentialCandidateTalbot is a junior residing in Dillon Hall and has been involved with that hall's government in a number of posi­tions. Runningmate Jim Hughes, also a junior, is presently secretary of Grace Hall. In their platform, Talbot and Hughes raise four major points: 
1) Judicial--Although Du Lac s-tates that campus violations should be considered by a campus or hall j-board unless the student chooses to go to his rector or the dean of students, Talbot claims ''this is not the procedure going through now. Getting responsible 
[continued on page 5] 
Hardy Mciver 
by Patrick Cole Senior Staff Reporter 
The student body president and vice-president ticket of Valerie Hardy and Deborah Mciver hopes to make Student Government a "dynamic, relevant and efficient force." 
Hardy, a resident of Breen­Phillips, said she hopes to create an atmosphere that will change the purpose, value and direction of the Notre Dame student body. "We believe the student body is too self-centered,'' . she said. "We wish to change this, then re-evalu­ate the structures of Student Gov­ernment with concrete additions and deletions to that structure." 

''And that will hopefully make it more professional and efficient," Hardy added. 
The two candidates stress.ed making Notre Dame a "reflection of the universe" by encouraging a greater involvement, awareness and interest by students in the outside world. 
''The Student Government is very isolated," said Mciver, a junior from Thomasville, Ga., and a resident of Breen-Phillips. "We feel the priorities we express also express our lives. Students should also be concerned with world issues." 
Hardy believed that the under­graduate college experience is becoming ''a means to an economic end, rather than as a total learning and growing experience." Hardy said, "Ideals are relegated to the classroom--discussed, criticized, reaffirmed and dismissed. Realiza­
[ continued on page 5] 
by Katie Kerwin 
Senior Staff Reporter 
Miranda 
Ralph Miranda, candidate for Student Body President (SBP), is calling for Studnet Government to become more open. "We want to
Clinton 
be more accountable and more 
visible that Student Government 
has been in the past," he ex­plained. • smaller and more efficient. A of publishing a Student Govern­

Miranda and his running mate, review of the commissions would ment newsletter about four times a Bob Clinton, are suggestine: the be in order and unnecessary com­year. Miranda also pointed out possibility of direct phone lines missions could be eliminated. that increased communications be­to the SBP. "We want to start at "But we don't want change for the tween various campus organiza­the top with the president, not sake of chance," he stressed. tions could minimize the schedul­have problems: filter up from the' Improved communicati9ns was ing of conflicting events. bottom," Mirap.da said. "By the another area Miranda emphasized, Miranda is also concerned with time they ge~ up to the top citing relations with halls, with the the problem of social space on sometimes it's too late." Administration and with indivi­campus and would favor the estab-
Miranda said he would like to see duals as areas that need work. 
[ continued on page 5]Student GoveriJ.ment become Clinton mentioned the posssibility 

Russell Geppert 
by Gregg B. Bangs Political Editor 
Three of the major planks of Student Body Presidential Candi­date J. P. Russell and running­mate John Geppert are: the revitalization of Student Govern­ment, the development of action­oriented social life and greater visibility of Student Government. 

''The way I look at Student Government i~ that there is a problem of inp~t," Russell said. "It's a matter ~f doing a good job with what's there." To help the 
. revitalization of Student Govern­ment, Russell flans to utilize the HPC as a tool1of communication between Stude~t Government and students. Russell would then use this tool as an hnput on campus­wide concerns !to aid the SLC in their position as a legislative council and consultative body," according to their platform. 
The ticket would institute zero ·base, budgeting for the purpose of ensuring greater accountability of Student Union spending, and would avoid the establishment of what they call "an unnecessary and cumbersome Student Senate." 
Russell, a junior residing in Holy Cross Hall, has extensive experi­ence in Student Government. He is currently HPC chairman and has a seat on the Student Government Board of Commissioners. He has also served as President of Holy Cross and chairman of the Fresh­man Advisory Council. 
Geppert is a junior who lives in Dillon Hall where he has served the past year as vice-president. He has 
[continued on page 5] 
Bender 
Soma 
Hohman Bartlett 
by Patrick Cole Senior Staff Reporter 
"Tom and I, from talking to groups on campus, ·feel that student government is not mean­ingful to students right now." · Emphasizing more communica­tion between the Student Union and Student Government, David Bender and Toth Soma are running 
by Gregg B. Bangs Political Editor 
Rich Hohman and Jeff Bartlett feel student government is spread­ing itself too thin this year and plan to establish a simple organization if elected next year. 
"For the limited resources they have, student government is con­centrating on too many things and for student b~dy president and vice-president, !respectively. 

"Basically, We found that the Student GoverrJment doesn't mean a whole lot to people," said Soma, a sophomore frqm Westland, Mich. and resident im Pangborn. "We would like to c~eate some channels to make it more meaningful." 
One of tho$e tactics that the Bender-Soma t1cket is stressing is a complaint agency and weekly 
not getting :anything done," Hohman said ih an interview held last night. "~e would establish a simple organization that would be in control of resources and activi­ties. Events wquld be well planned out and they would be run efficient­ly," he added. 1 
Presidential tandidate Hohman and Running-M~teBartlett are both juniors who liv~ off-campus. They are members of the ,Sorin-7, who 
· forum. The complaint agency will be staffed by ten to fifteen people who "will· investigate student problems." Bender talked about the weekly forum, saying, "When a student has a plan or idea, he usually takes it to the hall presi­dent, and that takes a couple of weeks." "For the weekly forum,'' Bender continued, ''we would invite all campus media--The Observer, 
were thrown off-campus last sem­ester by Dean of Students James Roemer. Although both :of .them plan to devote as much r time as possible to their campaign, they admitted last night that a lot of their time will be spent at the Bengal Bouts, where both are contestants. "We've been' training for the last six weeks and. want to see it through," said Bartlett. "Depending on how beat up we are WSND--and students who want to come. If people feel we're not doing the job, the media is there to watch our accountability." 
Bender and Soma also have called for the reorganization of the Student Life Council (SLC). According to their platform state­ment, the SLC "no longer deals student life. " 
[continued on page 5] 
after Sunday, we plan to campaign heavily on Monday and Tuesday,'' Hohman added. 
Neither of the two propose any set propositions. Instead, they plan to run a survey sometime in March before they would take office to see what students were interested ·in. "We would rather get behind two or three major 
[continued on page 5] 

by Katie Kerwin  ''To become' more effective, as a forum for students' questions Student Gover~ment must reach and reactions and for Student  Union has given him experience in this area. 
Ricci Eck  Polltical Reporter Kenn Ricci, candidate for student body president (SBP), is presenting a three-part program of what he promises to do if elected, focusing . on gathering student support, keeping the administra­tion in check and reorganizing Student Government. - out for student doncerns and ideas Government's responses. and not wait for ~tudents to come to Ricci and his running I mate, us," Ricci said. He: has proposed a Mark Eck, promise to visit every system of hall representatives hall at least once a semester as a whose sole respqnsibility would be part of the plan to increase com­to serve as a \ liaison between munication and participation. students in their qorms and the Secondly, Ricci said he wUllobby SBVP. I ', on !behalf of the students with the Ricci also s~gg'~sted that a Administration. He commented column in the Ob erver could serve that his work as director of Student  Maintaining that with the support of the .student body his voice will have greater~influence, Ricci said that he will seek a "more lenient alcohol policy,'' attempt a revitalization of the University Judicial Board, work to advance coeducation through a small-scale [continued on page 5]  
Mooney Morrison Lew  by Patrick Cole Senior Staff Reporter Discovering the students' needs has been the preliminary task for Patrick Mooney and Bruce Mor­rison, candidates for Student Body President and Vice-President. "We've talked to Gassman (the current Student Body President) about the student's needs," by Katie Kerwin Senior Staff Reporter Tim Lew is basing his campaign for Student Body President (SBP) on 'the idea that we must continually re-evaluate our institutions and not be afraid to change them to suit the needs of the students. "yye need to ask, 'What do we expect Student Gpvernment to do  1Mooney said, a~junior from Wat­ernment, the administration and seka, Illinois. " nd we plan to talk the students.'' basically to the s udents about their "We've got to remember that it needs." 1 (student government) is a $tudent Morrison, the pandidate for vice-: organization, and the responsi­president, believt]d thitt their major : bilities have to remain clear," selling point is t~at tne ticket does ' Morrison continued. "So we have not have any sp~cific ~ies. "We'll to maintain a level of communica­be looking fro$ tM outside of ] tion." student governn1ent,' \ ~e stated. · "I hope we can show the "We want to first 1d1scuss the dedication needed," Mooney relationships a ong tudent gov-added. 1 for us?' and •"What tis possible · should be more of a representative 1 under the syste~we h. ve?' " Lew r of the students, coordinating the said. 'We ha e to dare to go concerns of other student organiza­against the statu quo." · . tions and channeling their ~fforts. Lew express~d di~satisfaction He added that the SBP shouldn't with the highly pplitical tone of the use his power only to implement SBP elections. H~ stre51sed that his his own ideas. He emphasiz~d that candidacy is not aperspnal bid for he is not promising to institute any power, but rathe an attempt to get · particular program:­students to com it the~selves to a 1 "There is such a potential for democratic cours of action. democracy here. What we need is Lew said he. elieves the SBP a democrati~ revolution."' Lew  The two candidates have not yet drafted a platform. "We don't want to formulate any opinions yet," Mooney said. "We don't want to jump ahead of ourselves. We're first going to research what the needs are." "we're using our day-to-day experiences to determine what the students ·,vant,'' Mooney ex­[continued on page 5] stated. He explained that this kind of revolution does not involve an overthrow of the system. but rather necessitates a critical look at its purpose, role. base of support and capabilities. Lack of student interest in and identification with Student Govern­ment is a serious weakness of the institution now, Lew delcared. [continued on page 5]  

--------------------------~--­
EDITORIAL BOARD

F*The Observer 
anindependentstudentnewspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's 
The Observer is published by students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the poticies of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions and letters are the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of 'the community, and letters are encouraged to promote the free expression of varying opinions on campus. 
Box Q

Business Manager Tom Fronczak 
Notre Dame

Advertising Manager Mike Miller Photo Editor Tony Chifari Ind. 46556 
. Thomas O'Neil Dan Sanchez Chris Smith Gregg Bangs Val Zurblis Pat Hanifin Tim O'Reiley Bob Mader Maureen Flynn Marti Hogan Kathy Mills Barb Breitenstein Don Reimer Martha L. Fanning Fred Herbst Tom Byrne 
Editor-in-Chief Managing Editor Asst. Managing Ed. Executive Editor ExecutivP Editor Editorial Editor Features Editor Exec. News Editor Campus Editor St. Mary's Editor News Editor News Editor Copy Editor Production Editor Sports Editor Contributing Editor 


Wednesday, February 23, 1977 
"Dear President Carter. I thought you 
·' from the editor's desk!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~ 
'i 
would be pleased to hear that Harry and I are no longer living in sin.
Further Explanati~n 
When I mentioned your views on the subject, Harry too off... " 
of Our Petition 
thomas o'neil ~P.O.BoxQ_
The posters put up around business and a service. Salaries accounts which, because of fin­campus yesterday have challenged must be paid to our business ancial or legal troubles, are very event of the semester, of course, is The Observer's claim to needing an personnel: bookkeeper-secretary, difficult to collect soon. We are the Senior formal. The formal as
Tully

increase in student fees in order to typists, business manacer a~d taking several cases to small claims you know is to be at the Conrad 
continue publishing. The posters advertising salespeople--all of court and will take more. We have Hilton in Chicago. (The reason for 
say The Qbserver can solve its whom work exclusively for their enlisted an attorney to pursue this is that we wanted anyone who
Addresses 
problems just by learning to live salaries. We can hardly expect especially difficult cases. But wished to attend to be able to). The within its means. This is false and someone to type until dawn for the possible revenue from this source cost of the formal is going to be
Senior Class
misleading. love and glory of Notre Dame-St. is too little and too uncertain to get around $20,000. So far we are The Observer has been in fin­Mary's. Nor can we expect our the paper out of its troubles. trying to keep the price between ancial trouble for years, but we bookkeeper-secretary, a wife · and Another claim is that "food and Dear Editor: $33/$35 a couple. some people · have managed to keep going mother, to work for the sheer joy of drink flow freely'' at The Observer were worried about being left out despite deficit spending and a drop keeping records. They must ne­office. Often, because of the late An Open Letter to the Senior Class because of no transportation, so in advertising revenues. Because cessarily be paid. hours we work, people bring up we're providing buses. But right 
of the difficulties it would entail, Our total salary expense is food and drink. If anvone needs This letter is not written in now they're a little too expensive 
we have not asked for a subscrip­approximately $1200 per week. We refreshments during a long evening opposition to the people wanting a ($9 a couple). We were hoping to tion increase since 1973, before the cut salary expenses for last sem­of work he buys his own. rebate from the Senior Class trip. subsidize transportation and current round of inflation sparked ester by $7000 compared to the The charge that the van is used · Rather, I wish to explain to them charge only $5.00 a couple. by the oil hikes. However, with our same period last year. Any further for personal plllrposes is based on and to the rest of the class exactly Senior Week will cost the clasl' 
operating deficit expected to run as possible cuts would amount to very fact, but exaggerated. This was why we decided the way we did in over $2,000. We wanted tO' high as $18,000 this year, accord­little. done on a large scale in the past this matter. First, let me say that subsidize that so Seniors wouldn't ing to University Auditor Louis The services end of our operation and is still done~ occasionally now. from the beginning the decisions be burdened with costs that late in Cohen, our alternatives are 1) to includes the bulk of our staff but As Student Government and were made in the open meetings the year. (Graduation fees alone print on a less-than-daily basis, 2) only a small part of the salary Student Union discovered last year, and there was no "cover-up." are around $28). 
to close down entirely, or 3) to ask expense. Those with editorial and a student organization's van will Last year you elected us as your We took all of this into considera­for an increase. management responsiblities sometimes by lllsed by the students class officers to run the class the tion plus the fact we really felt the We naturally decided on the receive a token salary ranging from who volunteer to do that organiza­best possible way. You elected us money was rebated to the class, not increase and approached the ad­$8 to $15 per week. Our reporters, tion's work. That is inevitable, but to play and sponsor events that you to individuals. It's this view we ministration about the procedure to columnists and lay-out staffs are we have sharply curtailed and could attend or not attend whic took as class officers that resulted 
get it. We were asked to get the unpaid, despite long hours of controlled personal use of The ever you preferred. All activities in our controversial decision. 
approval of the majority of faithful work. As their only reward Observer van this year and re­are planned for the Senior Class as 
students. Thus the petitions are The Observer gives them a staff quired that the user pay for the a whole and not for the belefit of Rob Tully being circulated around campus. party at the end of each semester, gas. just a few that might attend. All Senior Class President 
The author(s) of the posters were much like the parties held by the projects are planned on a break neither brave enough nor confident Ombudsman and other campus So the claims made by our even basis to offer the lowest enough of their own charges to groups for their volunteers. anonymous opponents, while loose­possible price so that everyone may 
Another 

even sign their names. Nonethe­Another charge on the poster is ly based on fact, are inaccurate. have the opportunity to participate. 
less they charge that The Observer that we have more than $40,000 We wonder why anyone concerned Everything, both losses and pro­
can make ends meet by eliminating due to us in uncollected advertising with the truth of the matter would fits are absorbed by the class a a Letter "wasteful spending." We believe revenues. As of this writing the make such charges without check­whole, not just by those who 
there is very little "waste" in our correct figure is $10,319.68. About ing them and taking credit for through their own choice decided to 
Rapping Tully
spending. $3000 of this has been owed for less them. We do not expect to get the participate. There are only two The claim that we spend $2,000 than 30 days, the standard pay­rate increased unopposed, but we projects the entire year that are 
Dear Editor: 
per week in student salaries is ment period. hope the opposiltion is at least open planned to make money. One: The false. The Observer is both a The remaining $7000 is in and fair. hot dog stands before football 
This is yet another letter written 
games (profit, approximately in reference to the Senior Trip. 
$6.00), Two: A movie bid (profit, I attended the poorly publicized approximately $480). I'm not sure St. Mary's Senior Trip meetingif the people realize how much it only to be quite disillusioned with costs to run the class. 
my elected officials. PresidentNot counting social events let me Cindy Calahan has stated that thelist for you a few expenses that cost 
$2,000.00 or $15.00 per person
the class money. Advertising should be donated to the Senior costs, $160; Senior Fellow (so far, Class because it was a seniorwhich by the way there is no way of 
function. she stated that they didcharging Seniors for, $290; Death not intend to make money on themarch, $20; Senior Retreat, $78, trip, that it was just a luckyand telephone bills, $20. 
accident.
Now, even though we plan Another reason for keeping the events at a break even basis, some rebate in the Treasury was thathave lost money. The Senior picnic everytime a senior function is held(which to my knowledge everyone if losses do occur they do not collect had a great time) lost $1,000; the from each individual to absorb this Christmas party at Studebaker cost. However, the fact remainsansion lost approximately $600; the that only a limited number of seats Senior Women's Dinner lost about were alotted for St. Mary's stu­
$300. 
dents, hence limiting the numberAll these things are optional, of participants. This is not a some lost money because not 
"class" function but rather an 
enough people participated. 
"individual" choice of whether orOthers like the Senior Women's not to spend $246.00 to go toDinner, we partly subsidized, be­California. Functions such as cause we thought $7.00 was a lot of graduation cocktail parties andmoney to ask of the Senior Women Senior picnics encompass the en­as it was. the Senior Picnic lost tire "class." Theretore, as a money because . people wanted member of the senior class and an more food and beer. So our losses individual· participant of the Cali­are not ones of mismanagement, fornia Trip I hope other individuals but of wanting Seniors to enjoy . 
will sign the petition for the $15.00
"The fire behind the oil well? Why, that's whe·re 
their Senior year, at minimal cost. 
rebate money by Wednesday. 
This semester we are planning
we burn off the natural gas --it's great for lighting ci ars!" 
various events for Seniors. The big 
Joanne C. Whalen 


Lew 
[continued from page 3] Without effective support among the students, the SBP's actions not only lack backing, but are also pointless, he said. Lew also criticized the system of appointments of all commmission chairmen and subordinate officers by the SBP, which he maintains leads to a bureaucracy that is 'elitist' and that misses a large part of the talent available on campus. Lew emphasizes that although he would not impose his ideas upon the student body, he is not lacking in vision or is ideas. His sugges­tions include' an elevation in the status of the Hall President's Council (HPC). To avoid the risk of elitism, Lew says he will not make commission appointments, but all interested students will be asked to apply to the HPC. All appoint­ments will be subject to HPC approval and the SBP will have one vote in the Council. Lew said this type of recruitment aims at bring­ing in people from a wider field, encompassing those whose talents have gone untapped in the past. He stated that the first step in the re-evaluation and restructuring process would be a sort of open constitutional convention to set down a statement of beliefs, expec­tations and goals for the student community. This constitution would be intended as an organic and adaptable document and would be subject to approval by a student referendum. The next step would be ''to make Student Government fit the needs and to tailor it to the services desired by students," Lew said. "We would marshal our resources in the direction of these goals." 
Russell 
[continued from page 3] also served as Social Commissioner of that hall and has been a proxy representative to the HPC. . In regards to developing social hfe, Russell plans to emphasize the ne~d for a student center facility, whtch could be used for dancing hall parties. Russell would like to use the Holy Cross Half-Way House as a weekend pizza parlor "to provide social facility between Notre Dame and St. Mary's College," according to his plat­form. The platform also suggested further utilization of LaFortune Student Center. Both Russell and Geppert feel Student Government leaders should be more visible to the student community. "I won't sit up in my office all day," Russell stated. "The separate branches of government can run themselves. I'm going to go out and get as much student input as possible. A lot of good ideas come from people outside of Student Government. I'll try to find them," he added. The ticket also proposed to produce a newsletter detailing Student Government activities on a week-to-week basis. "Students deserve to know what's going on up there," said Geppert. "The news­letter idea has been kicked around for a long time. We'll implement it." Russell plans to deliver a State of the Campus Address at the begin­ning of each semester as well as run a campaign of familiarity. This campaign would consist of sched­uled meetings by the SBP and the SBVP in the residence halls for the purpose of interacting with students. 
Bender 
[continued from page 3] "The SLC, many people feel, is no good," Bender indicated. ''That's why we want to restructure it." The two candidates announced that if they are elected the new SLC will include three rectors from each quad, four hall social commis­sioners and one representative from the Student Government. "The social life revolves around the dorm," Soma stated. "So we want people--rectors--in direct con­tact. Notre Dame prides itself on bei~g a dorm school. Rectors play an Important part. They usually don't have a chance to meet with each other." The Bender-Soma platform also advocates an improvement in social space. The candidates believe 
there is "a great deal of inequity 
between dorms in the amount and 
quality of social space." The 
solution lies in using the Student 
Government budget surplus to 
increase the HPC's Hall Improve­
ment Fund and petitioning the 
University to increase funds, they 
said._ 
The platform also advocates the 
responsibility role of the Student 
Union and encourages increased 
cooperation with the Alumni Board 
and Alumni Senate. Bender 
strongly recommends a constitu­
tional amendment to require a 
monthly meeting with the Student 
Union's Board of Directors and to 
have the Student Union Director 
present his calendar and budget to 
the HPC at the beginning of each 
semester. 
"But most importantly, we have 
a balance of experience," . Soma 
emphasized. Soma entered 
campus politics in 1975, being 
involved in the academic calendar 
controversy. Since April 1976 he 
has been a member of the Student 
Government Cabinet. Soma was 
also involved in the Brown-Pig 
affair which allowed the farmer, 
George Brown, to have access to 
dining hall waste and he drafted 
the laundry proposal that will allow 
male students on campus to have 
coin-operated washers and dryers 
"by September," according to 
Soma. 
Bender is currently president of Sorin Hall. He worked at WSND radio station, covering Student Government. Also he emphasized his work in student activities by acting as assistant director of pep rallies since his freshman year. 
"We're not making any wild promises," Soma cautioned. "But we're just trying to be realistic about the campaign,'' Bender added. "1f'!e're pledging to carry out our platform, and we feel it's possible because it's realistic." 
Talbot 
[conttDued from page 3] 
people appointed to hall ]-boards and reactivating the University J-Board will be one of our main objectives," he states in his plat­
form. 
2) Social--Talbot feels University officials realize the need for more social space on campus, but thinks the SBP can help determine just how much and how soon the problem will be worked on. 
Included in this part of the platform is a suggestion to move social activities back to the dorm and club level. Talbot would also like to see Stepan Center used more often, possibly to draw enter­tainment from Chicago. He would also put out a booklet geared to organizing ev~qts. 
3) Off-campus--Talbot plans to bring programs such as hallmark to off-campus students. He would also like to set up an off-campus shuttle to ''key'' places, especially during the winter months. 
4) Awareness--The two believe that most people are not aware of ''the numerous programs and organizations designed to help them," according to Talbot. Through a bi-weekly column or some other means, they think students should be alerted to all the opportunities open to them. 
Talbot thinks he can "do a better job of what's being done." "A lot of people will try to cut me down for lack of experience. I almost see that as an asset for I haven't risen above the students. A lot of people encouraged me to run and say I can do the job. I think I can help the students," he commented. 
Ricci 
[continued from page 3] housing exJ?eriment, and try to get more busmess administration classes opened to non-business majors. Reorganization of Student Gov­ernment to increase its effective­ness is Ricci's third goal. He said he would like to see the Board of Commissioners assume a greater role in coordinating the activities and goals of Student Government, Student Life Council and Hall Presidents Council, all of whom are represented on the board. The SLC should be maintained and its role enlarged, Ricci stated. Ricci and Eck stressed their qualifications for . the offices they 
are seeking, saying that they have 
both had valuable experience in 
policy-making and working with 
large numbers of people. Ricci said 
he feels that his campus-wide 
experience, combined with Eck's 
hall-level experience as president 
of Planner, offer the best altern­
ative for the students. 
Ricci pledged, in addition, that he will remain on campus this summer to implement proposals decided on during the academic year. He specifically mentioned renovation of Nazz facilities and improvement of social space in the halls. 
"The essential role ofthe SBP is feeling student interests and con­veying them to the Administra­tion," Ricci concluded. 
Miranda 
[continued from page 3] lishment of a gathering place to facilitate social interaction for stu­dents, faculty and parents in an informal atmosphere. Miranda said that something along the line of a pizza parlor could be looked into. He said improved hall social space would also be a goal of his administration, he would confer with rectors, hall councils and individual students on the matter, if elected. Another major issue in his platform is the "readjustment of visiting hours," Miranda said. "We-don't want to force anything on students," he said, in regard to that issue. He added that an attempt to listen to student opinion would be made and that thev would try to work out a "middle-of-the­road" arrangement that would satisfy everyone. Miranda and Clinton both stres­sed the importance of having all students participate in the elec­tions, urging all students to exer­cise their right to vote. 
Hohman 
[continued from page 3] efforts and pursue them instead of spreading ourselves too thin,'' H{)hman explained. "We're not politicians. We don't have a stand on every issue, but we are interested in making a smooth organization out of student government," Hohman said. "The basic idea (of student government) is sound. We want to smooth it out and stay away from il formal hierarchy. We want to make student government a service or­ganization for the students," he continued. Although neither Hohman or Bartlett has any previous experi­ence in either Student Government or the Student Life Council, Bart­lett said, "It's pretty obvious that at a school like Notre Dame you can only get a few things done anyway. So instead of spreading ourselves too thin, we're going to concentrate on a few projects." 
Hardy 
[continued from page 3] tion of these ideals is relegated to some non-specific time in the future." In keeping to the goal of pro­fessionalism and efficiency, Hardy feels the most important step is to establish an Interpersonal Develop­ment Organization. This would be composed of the Student Life Council, a Human Sexuality Council and Minority Concerns Council. The Human Sexuality Council will "address itself to the improvement of male and female relations and problems of coeduca­tion;" "This would be the most impor­tant change in Student Govern­ment," Hardy commented about the interpersonal development program. Also the Hardy-Mclver platform calls for the implementation of a Hall Representatives Council to work in conjunction with the Hall President's. Council (HPC). The group would have the power to pass resolutions and to discuss important issues facing the Uni­versity. "We want to encourage more participation by students," Hardy said. This Representatives Council, presided over by the student body vice-president, would have repre­sentation from each section in all campus dormitories, totaling ap-

Wednesday, February 23, 1977 the observer 
proximately 121 students. The group would be named the Student become an end to itself," Hardy Body Congress, making them an warned. "Let's make it a v~hicle of overall legislative body. love, understanding and the search 
Other ideas supported by Hardy for knowledge and truth." and Mciver are more involvement by students in legal aid and Mooneyvolunteer programs, semester ex­
[continued from page 3]
change programs with other uni­versities and helping students to plained. "We have a couple more become more involved with people to talk to." 
problems of social justice, the So _the fir~t step for Mooney and Third World, violence and poverty. Momson will be completed tonight Hardy also mentioned the need before the candidate forum at 
.for more adequate social space in Zahm. "To be honest," Morrison dormitories and for programs to said, "we want to make ourselves "improve the quality of interaction the best candidates. And this is 
between students." secondary to winning the election "Don't let Student Government 
at this point." 
)Scoutu ~tJ' ~~~ ~JBcast 
_Wednesday 7:30 & 10:00 $1.00 Admission. 
w I 
THEY


...._ NO 
Polish playwright Stanislaw Witkiewicz' hilarious farce on human 
existence
SMC 
THEATRE 
FEB. 25, 26, Mar. 3,4,5 
at8:00 p.m.

$2.50 ($2 Std, Fac) 
284-4176 0'Laughlin Auditorium 
EASE ON DOWN THE ROAD TO ••• 
THEWIZ 

Friday February 25th 
Buses leave the main circle at 6:30 · 
A few tickets remain. 
If you were on the waiting list, call 3031. 
$19.00 per person. 
Itrhere 
IS 11 difference!!! 
PREPARE FOR: 
~-(001-~J 
GMAT • GRE • OCAT CPAT ·VAT • SAT 
Our broad range of programs provides an umbrella of test­mg .know-how that enables us to offer the best preparation ava1lable~ no matter which course is taken. Over 36 years of expenence and success. Small classes. Voluminous home study materials. Courses that are constantly up­dated. Permanent .centers open days & weekends all year. Complete tape facilities for review of class lessons and for use of supplementary materials. Make-ups for missed les­sons at our centers. 
ASK ABOUT OUR COMPACT COURSES 
2050W. Devon ~~ chicago, 111. sos4s,f,~ .,.P -H 
(312) 764-5151 ""' N 
EDUCATIONAL CENTER 
Outside NY ~tate On lv . 

CALL TOLL FREE (
T£ST PREPARATION 
• • ~PfCIALO~T~ _,NC£ 141h
800 221 9840 

.PREPARE FOR THE NEW MCAT WHERE 
~~~~ 6~F~~~EI~C~LWAYS A <" ,I 
,-­
6 the observer Wednesday, February 23, 1977 
-------_:_:._:_=:~:.=-=-::::...:....._::_:::_:__________:._ --·-----­
Senate fattens Carter's economic program 
WASHINGTON AP • The Senate Democrats, Dale Bumpers of 
voted yesterday to fatten President Arkansas, Adlai Stevenson of Illi­
Carter's economic-stimulus pro­nois and Robert Morgan of North 
gram · of tax cuts and federal Carolina, and independent Harry 
spending amid growing opposition F. Byrd Jr. of Virginia used the 
to his proposed $50-per-person tax budget debate to express their own 
rebate. opposition. 
By a vote of 72 to 20, senators Whatever form the stimulusadded $1.7 billion to the $15.5 
package takes, the aim is the same: billion stimulus plan recommended to get money into the hands of by Carter for the period that ends consumers in the hope the spend­next Sept 30. 

ing will stimulate the economy, andThe vote does not represent an to create jobs with direct federalendorsement of Carter's much-cri­spending for public-works con­ticized $50-per-person tax rebate; it struction and temporary govern­means only that if the rebate is •· ment funded jobs.

aproved, the budget will accom­modate it. Here are the emergency spend-The vote was on whether to ing proposals envisioned by the amend the budget for the current budget amendments adopted by 
fiscal year to allow a stimulus the Senate. The fiIgures are for package costing up to $17.2 billion, spending through Sept. 30 only, as recommended by the Senate even though the Senate included 
Budget Committee. The House is authorizations for future years. expected to vote today on a similar $300 million to help needy per-figure, :H7.3 billion. sons pay their fuel bills in areas 
Although the House Ways and hardest hit by the unusually bitter Means Committee already has winter. Details of thg program are approved the basics of the $50-per-yet to be worked out. person rebate proposed by Carter, $600 million for increased aid to .the 38 Senate Republicans and states, cities and counties to help 
several Democratic s~nators are replace tax revenues lost becuase openly opposed to It. Three of the weak economy. 
Experimental research finds no constitutional protection 
DENVER (AP) -A law profes­states to regulate recombinant sor told a group of scientists that DNA research, most notably by the U.S. Constitution does not Cambridge, Mass., in the case of protect their right to engage in Harvard Univeristy. New York experimental research and there­Sate will consider such laws and a fore governments are free to regu­U.S. Senate hearing will be held late such controversial projects as soon. recombinant DNA research. Green, of the National Law 
Critics say research on recombin­Center at George Washington ant DNA could pose biological University, has been closely invol­hazards. Prof. Harold P. Green ved in the national recombinant told the American Association for DNA debate and is an adviser to the Advancement of Science that the National Institutes of Healt'"I, local. state and national govern­which has issued guidelines for the 
ments are free to pass laws research. regulating it without having to Gree-n said that constitutionally prove the constitutionality of the . the right of scientific inquiry can laws. have no greater protection than 
The discussion was part of a day freedom of speech, and that the long session. dealing with scientific critical distinction is between freedom and responsibility, at the speech and action. 143rd annual meeting of the AAAS. "Surely a scientist has the 
DNA--deoxyribonucleic acid--is freedom to think, to do calcula­the basic chemical of heredity. tions·. to write, to speak and to Recombinant DNA research in­publish," he explained. volves the new . technology of "When, however, the scientist artificially transferring genetic· leaves the area of such abstractions material from one species to anoth­and turns to experimentation, he er and recombining it to produce moves within the range of action new inlterited traits. that may enjoy only some, or 
Soml.! argue that it can be perhaps very little or no, constitu­beneficial, such as in correcting tional protection.'' genetic errors or producing new "Speech emanating from the drugs. Critics say new and virulent vocal cords is generally fully pro­forms of life could be created and tected, but amplified speech is not; perhaps escape to the community. one is constitutionlllly protected in 
There have been a number of cursing the flag or a draft card, but efforts around the country by he is ~ot ~;otected when he rips or community organizations and tears It... 
Stereo Scene Pre-Inventory Tax Clearance and Demo Sale 
SAVINGS 
10-50% 
We Will Not Be Undersold Sale Ends Weds., Feb. 23 
PHONE 287-1400 
THE STEREO 

3302 MISHAWAKA AVE. 
'iOUTH BEND, INDIANA 
SCENE 

$400 million in added spending for such public-works construction 
projects  as  court-houses  and  
schools.  Authorization  for  such  
spending  over  the  next  several  

years would be increased by $4 billion. 
$700 million for public-service jobs in hospitals, jails, parks, etc. in areas of high unemployment. 

• _ • 
---------I
I SeniOrS!! I Juniors!! I
I I 
. Do you need your picture 1taken for school applica-1
t" ( d d t 1 
l ions me ., en ., aw, 1 1gradi.)Will DO IT. I lcall Tom (283) 65551 
• -------~ 

When David had open 
heart surgery not long 
ago, he needed six vital 

units of blood, type 0 N~g. 
.All of it was obtained, 
processed and provided 
by the Red Cross blood 
center. 

We're not the heroes of 
this lifesaving story (the 
six wonderful blood 
donors should get the 
medals). But we (and 

other voluntary blood cen­
ters) do need your con­
tinued support Blood, 

you know, doesn't grow on 
trees. It comes from 

donors. Like you. And we 
need more people like 

you. Call your Red Cross 
or other voluntary blood 
center soon. Please. 

David Nairne counted onus. 
Current law ·provides money for 310,000 such jobs, the Senate action would raise the number to 600,000 in the next seven months. the economic package envisions 725,000 jobs next year. 
$600 million to expand training and jobs for programs aimed at the young and the old. 
$300 million to reimburse cities and counties for construction of certain water-polluti~n control facilities. The aim is to prevent layoffs by local governments. 
$200 million for railroad and highway construction. 
$300 million for improving out­door recreational facilities, thus creating jobs in the national park, forest and wildlife services. 


707 7C18 

LISTEN! We,ve gotthe bestsounds in town•••
.------------~ 
JANiS IAN MiRAclE Row

JANIS IAN 
including: Let Me Be Lonely 

..MIRACLE ROW" 
I Want To Make You Love Me/Candlelight TakeTo The Sky/The Sunset Of Your Life 

Jugando/Let The Children Play /Marla Carac61es 
We're counting on you. 

Notre Dame Bookstore
Red Cross. The Good Neighbor. 
Q. . Introducing .. •' .i..A.J(
tftl, , \:-~·';;;,. r,;1 ~--)..
Featuring!: 
~~ ITE;'\ ~·. Compl~te: OCCULT supplies, ~CA ·~ ,Jf~,~
ill]' ·:1 ' 'I • . h d '· H . I h ~-·'1{J'D . /) 

-,.· •. , . an ~-IXer InCense, :ure erbS·:.' r·~.-·~ :~~ 1
§~De\~,~. an[d t·books, lewelry, i -r .);< ro..v /~~, ~~~·,>J I Jtarot cdrds ./·'4..,_ "f ~~ 
/::c~-=: -~: ~ '"'\ f V' l ~ . !"''----\ 
town & country .\n-..:. ,: . ' . . \
.u ~ 
sh~pping center Jl1,l: .,. -~. • p ych1c :COUnselmg With tarot a~d astrology, 
mma-mall 1 :palm,stry, classes m occult sc1ences 
J

2340 miracle lane I I mishawaka, indiana 46544 \ . 
'219/256-0111 1 Health Foods and Vitamins 
:• 


SLC members and several guests discussed Christian sexuality yesterday. [Photo by Jim Hofman] 
0-C Housing meeting tonight 
statistics, the student directory, available housing, and keep re­by Joan Fremeau and communication with campus. cords of crime reports," PalmaStaff Reporter 
Housing representatives will said. "It is important to know the advise students of available sum­circumstances of a robbery as well The Housing Office will hold mer storage facilities. "We will as the area where it occurred." 
meetings for students interested in 
also caution them of high crime 
moving off campus, starting to­The office mediates problems
areas and discuss crime preven­
night, announced Darlene Palma, between landlords and students,
tion,'' Palma said. 
associate director of Off-Campus such as contract or security deposit Housing. Tonight's meeting will "A problem last fall concerned disagreements.. be held at 7 pm in LaFortune's little 
addresses and phone numbers The meetings ''will give students theater. printed in the directory," she an idea of what to consider before 
continued. "We intend this year to 
The housing office recently sent moving off campus, such as their a letter to all sophomores and ask off-campus students to sign responsibilities in dealing with 
special cards, indicating whether or 
juniors explaining the purpose of landlords and signing contracts, the meetings, according to Palma. not they wish their addresses or anticipating costs, and choosing "Housing wants to inform all housemates," Palma concluded. 
phone numbers printed in the directory.''
interested students of what they The housing office advises all are getting into before they decide One of the biggest complaints of students intending to move offto move off campus," she explain­off-campus students is the lack of campus to return their housinged. The meetings will cover communication concerning campus 
cards, marking "off-campus"

important issues of off-campus activities. This problem, as well as instead of a dorm. "By doingliving, as well as discuss the the differences between living on this," Palma noted, "students willoffice's services. "We will also and off campus, will also be receive their $50 room depositdistribute lists of available housing covered at tonight's meeting, before they return next semester."
tonight,'' she noted. Palma added. 
Housing· meetings will also be Subjects to be discussed tonight Finally, the office will offer its held Tuesday, March 1 and Thurs­will include summer storage, crime services. "We keep lists of day, March 24. 
• 
Wednesday, February ~23:..!'..:1:..:.9.:...77~--=-t.:.:h:..:::e~o~b:.=s:....:e:-....:....rv~e::...:r:.___ ___.:.7 
Christian sexuality discussed by SLC 
by Dave O'Keefe normally hesitant to discuss openly 
Staff Reporter and spontaneously." _ 
Fr. Bill Toohey, director of 
Christian sexuality at Notre Campus Ministry, called for a Dame was the topic of discussion at policy statement by the University yesterday's SLC meeting, which articulating its position on sexuality was attended by several guests with respect to human develop­invited by chairman Mike Casey to ment and personal growth. Toohey participate in the hour-and-a-half­went on to explain that such a long brainstorming session. statement would be valuable in that 
After considering the question, it would provide a formalized 
"If you had a son or daughter standard against which such issues coming to Notre Dame, what would may be judged and evaluated in the you do to provide them the opti­future. 
mum growth in personal maturity · The most extended and striking and sexual development?", council remarks came from Dr. James members and guests broke into Brogle, who spoke from his posi­small groups and discussed their tion as a clinical psychologist individual answers. working in Psychological Services. 
The remainder of the meeting "We must overcome the nega­was taken up by a discussion of tive, immature attitudes about conclusions reached by groups and heterosexual relationships and 
members. dating here at Notre Dame," 
Casey offered the idea of institut­Brogle said. ing an academic or curricular Brogle felt . that the establish­program designed to acquaint ment of emotional security and a freshmen with the issues of human sense of identity in students has 
sexuality. been neglected in the past. He 
Fr. James Shilts agreed with the feels that this area should be as idea of a program acquainting equally compelling as the committ­students with these issues, pos­ment to academic, spiritual and sibly in each dorm. physical development on the part of 
"It is the responsibility of the educators. University administration," ex­Brogle went on to explain that, in plained Shilts, "especially those his opinion, co-ed dorms were the involved in student life, and to ideal vehicle for the achievement of 
some extent the faculty, to encour-, this end, but that they remain age and provide opportunities for untried at Notre Dame because of students to discuss the issues of the connotations of promiscuity human sexuality, which they are customarily attached to the. issue. 
O'Neil meets with HPC 
[continued from page 1] ident of Howard, said, "I seriously date as a responsibility." doubt whether these meetings have Paczesny said that a bigger any value." priority for the University is to 
Bogan said there was poor atten­increase the social space within dance at the last meeting. He also 
each dorm. He said he encouraged more
said the HPC had expectedsuggestions from the student body input from the section leaders. 
on how to accomplish this. 
Bogan added that most section · Another issue at last night's leaders liked the idea of the Round HPC meeting was a discussion of Table meetings. He suggested the the usefulness of the recent Round meetings continue for this reason.
Table meetings. In Round Table "The response from the sectionmeetings, section leaders from leaders has been good," Bogandifferent halls meet and discuss said. "Their interaction is great for common problems. 
their own purpose, but not for the
Reporting on the last Round Table meeting, Chris Bogan, pres-
HPC's purposes." 
NOTICES 

why pay $10.00 for personalized, astrological birth charts from im­personal computers? detailed, typed profiles -$5.00 call pat -7339. 
greyhound bus to chicago teaves main circle every friday at 5:45 pm. call tom at 8338 for reservations 
and further info. 
neat accurate typing of term papers manuscripts. call: 287-5162. 
off campus meeting tonight, 7 :00 pm, little theater, Iafortune center. 
morrissey loan fund $20 -$150. 1 day wait. 1 percent interest. due in 30 days. Iafortune basement. 11:15-12:15 m-f. 
need typing? executary inc. professional typing service. 85 cents a page. 232-0898. 
will teach you flute in your spare time. call beth 8112. 
used books. book bam, 1 mile north of notre dame. 272-5520. 
accurate, fast typing. mrs. donoho 232-0746. hours: sam to 8pm. 
would you be interested in getting your marvels and d.c.'s two weeks earlier than anywhere else? tor more information call bob 233-0966 from 9-12 am rnon-wed and trior ray 7278 from 6-10 pm wed, thurs, and 9-5 sat. 
typing, call carolyn at 232-9061. 
life in the spirit seminar begins feb. 
22. call tom at 289-4691 or 7651. 
logan volunteers. dance tonight 
7:30 -10:00 at united methodist church. rides from library and holy cross circles at 7:15. info , call scotty 287-3975. 
LOST AND FOUND 

found: single key marked taylor x-7 found in se comer of near d-2. phone 1251, chris. 
someone left a calculator at darby's place on thursday night -if you can identify it call mike deary at 7735, leave a message. 
found: a pair of shoes (boats) ........ jk p3es. 
found: pair of glasses near s. dining hall 2-3 weeks ago. call 8098. 
FOR SALE 

Telephoto Lens: 200mm f3.5 Soligor T-4 with mount for Nikon, Nikkormat. Includes sun shade and Tiffen Uv filter. $100. Can be adapted to Canon, Minolta, Pentax Olympus tee. with T-4 mount. Price without Nikon mount $90. Call 1845 ask tor Tony. 
for Sale: Cheap! many San Fran GAb-ball tix. Call Bill Carsell 1821 before 1 0 :00 am. 
7foot gold couch, fair condition, will dicker. Call 255-3287. 
10 speed bike, good condition, $75. 287-2586. 
'68 olds vista cruiser, a-1 condition, 67,000 miles $750.00 or offer, bill after 9pm, 233-1993. 
1 pair of 2-way walnut bookshelf speakers, lftx1 and one half toot, $40, phone 289-8098. 
audio outlet: top name stereo equipment wholesale. call 283-­1181. 
WANTED 

need tix for san fran game. call martha, 4-4819. 
need ride to binghamton or ithaca, ny. share driving and S$. can leave mar. 11, call jill 1333. 
wanted: ride to bloomington . normal (isu) on fri. , feb. 25. will share expenses. call mike 3264. 
need at least two Iasaiie tix. please. call marylou 6865. 
needed: 2 Iasaiie tickets. call egg 1655. 
desperately desire 2 or 4 ga tix for Iasaiie. call dan 8953 or 2195. 
wanted: 2 or 3 ga tickets for Iasaiie, call kathy 1361. 
need 4 ga tix for Iasaiie, phone 6153. 
i need 1 Iasaiie tix. dave 6864. 
Classified Ads 
need saturday night wisconsin tickets. will buy or trade friday tickets for them. kevin 289-6929. 
need 3 ga tix to Iasaiie. $$$. call 8200. 
need ride to houston for spring break. $. dave 1765. 
need 2 ga tix tor Iasaiie game. call mike 8708. 
i desperately need a ride to tampa-st. pete area for spring break. i will share driving and expenses. call flo freely 6780. 
wanted: one wis. hocket ticket tor sat. night. call tom at 288-9916. 
wanted: ride to and from dallas for spring break. split driving and expenses. call ben 288-7523. 
needed: pairs of ga Iasaiie tix. call steve 287-6058. 
need ride to louisville, ky. any weekend call clif 8421. 
two giris need ride to ft. lauderdale for spring break. call 4-4291 or 4-4378. 
wanted: rug 12x14, cail 4-4122 charyl. 
need a ride to ft. lauderdale for spring break, will share driving and expenses. call pat 1514. 
wanted: rides to tt. lauderdale for break. call brian 1589 or 1516. 
wanted: 2 ga tix to san fran. call 1279. 
3 ga tix to san fran. will pay top $$. call 283-8863. 
earthquakes will hit if i do not get 4 san fran tickets. call fred at 287-2771. 
ride needed to milwaukee -mar­quette. can leave feb. 25 after 12 wanted: female grad. student to babysit and sleep over a few nights per week. will pay call mary 272-3656. 
noon  call 4-5170.  
need 2 Iasaiie ga tix. matt 3137.  will pay.  call  
need tour ga Iasaiie bmary kay 6874.  -ball tix.  call  


important $$$. need two ga tix to Iasaiie. call cole 8540. 
help us get to the beach. 2 girls need a ride to ft. lauderdale for break. call 7401 or 3725. 
desperately need two wis. hocket tickets for mar. 5. call paul 8550. 
FOR RENT 

for rent next school year-9 month lease two furnished houses, 4 bedroom and .5 bedroom. near nd. off street parking call :234-2626. 
5 bedroom house, good condition, renting for fall or by room for the summer. ·walk to campus. call 259-7488 after 5. 
sharon p. -interhall swim meet tonite -seven o'clock at the rock. be there. aloha. t.s. 
for your free basketball decanter of "unforgettable" cream sachet call your avon rep -randy 8710. 
bart -just what you have been waiting for a personal from your roommate. paul. 
tommy p. happy belated b-day. take it to ease. 
703 

to the mo·rrissey 217 seven and seven club. thanks for all the help guys. 
love, tricia and ellen 
why not call ray fedorko at 287-4212 and wish him a happy day? 
kelleher: how could you bong us? harold melvin's bluenotes 
feeling depressed? n.d.-s.m.c. hotline 4-4311 open nights. 
can't make tonight's oc meeting at 7:OOpm? send a friend. 
mr. callisto, this is no time to joke. if they are here, it's curtains for you. 
mariana 

amtrak chris...i'd derail for you anytime. 
to all those who....induldge. the quickee is running again this weekend. friday and sat. info, call 7638. 
kitty why don't we have efficient typists on mondays? pat r. you're lucky i type on tuesdays, i got to censor that last ad. actually i guess i'm lucky. speaking of which i'm not really avoiding you it's just...... 
barb, bev, or whatever your name is, love those legs!! j& j 
p.s. can't we help you shave them? 
rafael­; don't believe in you either! god 
to the ny gents: tom, any and bruce­nice meeting you. best of luck in your b-ball careers. 
your hockey hostess, karen 
chris from fisher, sorry about the phone call saturday night, but i was high on life. return the favor sometime. 
bill from wvu 

happy birthday you silly goose (10 already (19 already?) 
asp 

joan, that is almost a silly goose rabbit, isn't it? 
happy birthday to one of farley's angels. asp 
hey jane, your own soap! but I still love ya. happy 19th. fed 
dear afriend, why don't we get together and discuss my "atributes"? 
wertless 

dictator of vice: happy birthday first floor fool farm 
belated birthday greetings for peter c. (for cutthroat) cullihan: here's to those long thursday nights and sleep-tilled tirday mornings. we almost gave you a spittoon and a dustcloth, but chose a lock for the cupboard instead! happy b-day. 
225 
I. 

.......-1--_._...._-·-·--------____......______________ ~-­
the observer 
Flowers:the rule's exception 
byTonyhee Sporta Writer 

Though the ideal of the well­rounded student.athlete is always stressed by the _NCAA on its promotional spots, individuals that approach this ideal are the excep­tion rather than the rule in the present intercollegiate athletic pic­ture. Notre Dame basketball player Bruce Flowers is one of those few players who approach that ideal. 
For the purposes of this article, the student portion of the student­athlete will consist of all those contributions made to the univer­sity outside the realm of athletics. Flowers is a student in the sense that he makes noteworthy contribu­tions in both the academic and the social areas. 
Socially, the 6-8 sophomore is an integral part of the "ghetto" section on the second floor of Dillon Hall. This despite the fact that his commitment to the game of basket­ball consumes the major portion of his time. In the constant banter among roommates, Flowers is not unlike any other student: he'll deal out some good-natured abused and he'll receive some similarly humored grief. 
Academically, Flowers is presently enrolled in the College of Business Administration with the intent of majoring in accounting, one of the most highly regarded disciplines at this university. Flowers says, "I am not sure how far I want to go in accounting, but l am definitely sure that I want to own my own business someday. I want something that is mine so that I can work for it and I'll make it or break it on my own. That's just the type of guy I am." 
Even with these other aspects of his life, most of Flowers' life, for the present anyway, is directed towards the game of basketball. "When I was growing up I didn't really have any idols. I just like playing the game for the love of the game. There was a playground across from my home where the, high school stars used to come and play. I played there from the time I was in eighth grade," says Flowers. 
"In high school, I would play twelve months of the year. In season I usually played seven days a week: five days on the school team and two days in a league in Detroit.'' 
Now for the Irish, Flowers is one of the members of the top rebound­ing front Jines in collegiate basket­ball. Commenting on this fact, the articulate forward stated, "I think we are probably the most disci plined front line in the country. We are tall enough, averaging 6-8 or SO, and we are a smart front Jine. We do all of the little things, such as boxing out, right and that just givt;s us an advantage over the Jess disciplined teams." 
The nickname "Butcher" is emblazoned on the back of Flowers' warm-up and he related the following story about the acquisition of the name: "Last year Dave Huffman and I had a team in the Bookstore basketball tourney and our team was named the Butcher Brothers. I had the number 96 on my jersey because that was the number of fouls that I had in my freshman season. So, this season when they were looking for nicknames to put on the back of our warm-ups "Butcher" was the only one I could come up with. I really don't like it and I hope to change it next year." 
Fouls have been a major source · of trouble for Flowers in his first two campaigns and he hopes to 


Fred Herbst:;:;:;::::=========::;:;:;:;:;:;::=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=::;:;::=:=====:=:=:::=::;:;::::::=:===:===:===:=:=========:=:=:=::====: 
An NCAA Bid 2.=w;:;:~;=====;;;;;;;;;;:~======~==:==m==~=:0=========:===:===:====:=:=:=:=: A D iffic u It Task 
A NCAA bid. It's a simple enough goal, but it's a pretty difficult one to achieve. H you don't think so, ask Digger Phelps and his Notre Dame basketball team. 
The Irish opened the season by shocking the world, winning their first seven straight including road victories over Maryland and UCLA. The bid seemed to be a sure thing. They then lost their next four in a row, and the NCAA Tournament picture looked bleak. Then after splitting two games, the Irish righted themselves and won their next nine games, the Irish righted themselves and won their next nine games to bring their season mark to 17-5. 
Nine wins in a row. A NCAA bid seemed assured. Then, disaster -in the form of West Virginia. Totally dominated by the Mountaineers, Notre Dame saw their winning streak and their certain bid go by the boards. 
Phelps believes his team is still in good shape to receive a bid. Three games remain before the NCAA issues its bids -Loyola, LaSalle and San Francisco. The San Francisco game is on March 5, bids are given out on March 6. 
But to Phelps, San Francisco is not the key game in terms of obtaining a bid -not yet anyway. As he points out, it wouldn't impress the NCAA selection committee much ifNotre Dame beats the Dons after they've lost to either Loyola or LaSalle. 
It's shaping up to be another big week for the Irish cagers, much like a couple of weeks ago when they faced Holy Cross and South Carolina. But this week is bigger, just for the simple reason that there aren't many more tomorrows for the Irish. A loss to either Loyola tonight or LaSalle Saturday will almost certainly kill whatever chance they have or receiving the bid they've worked wo hard to get. At the beginning of the season Loyala and LaSalle didn't figure to be key games, they do now. 
Why the concern? Who's Loyala andLaSalleto be worried about? Well, they're like most other teams in the nation that look at their game with the Irish as a one-game season. Nothing can put a school on the map faster than an upset win, especially an upset win over Notre Dame. 
Loyala and LaSalle will be ready to play when they invade the ACC, and they hope that they can catch the Irish looking ahead to San Francisco and a NCAA bid. 
With so much riding on these contests it's doubtful that 'Phelps' squad will be caught down, but stranger things have happened. Just as AI McGuire about last week, as well as 11 other top 20 coaches who all saw their teams taste defeat. 
''. 


improve in this area. "Fouling has 
been one of my major weaknesses 
and a reason that I'm so often in 
foul trouble is that I have yet to 
Jearn to adjust to the referees. Out 
west the refs Jet more go, they 
allow an aggressive game. In the 
East, the refs will call even the 
hand check. Each ref has a 
different style that I'll have to 
adjust to. I don't think that this is 
right because with a good referee 
you won't even know that he's 
there. But I'll still have to learn to 
adjust." 

Other changes that Flowers 
would like to make in his game . have to do with his outside shooting and his free throw sbooting. "My free throw shooting has been slowly improving and right now my 
free throw percentage is finally 
above 60 percent. If I'm going to 
~ -.~ 
play pro, which is something that I Bruce Flowers has played an integral part in Notre Dame's success would like to try to do, I'm also 
this season. [Photo by Kevin Walsh] going to have to improve my possibility of us getting a bid up San F-;ancisco because they outside shooting because right now hinges upon the San Francisco have yet to play in a place like the the bulk of my game consists of game. That is our season right ACC." H Bruce Flowers has any Iayups and tip-ins that occur there. The Dons know that they are say in the outcome of that contest, around the hoop." going to get a bid and we don't. the Irish should be able to put it on As for the rest of the season, the We should have all the incentive in the winning side of the ledger. goal is that NCAA tournament bid, that match. I'm sure that the Notre And, it will be yet another contribu­which is still to be decided. Dame fans will really be up for that tion that he has made to the Notre Flowers says, "I think that the game and that could really shake Dame community. 
Hockey playoff tickets available 
While still not a certainty, the Tickets for each contest are $2 possibility exists that Notre Dame apiece for students and $3 apiece will host some 1977 WCHA play-off for the public. These are the lowest games. Tickets for any games that prices allowed by the WCHA. the Irish may host will go on sale Students are limited to one beginning Tuesday, Mar. 1. tickets apiece for their personal 
use. A student must present his IDThe quarterfinal series would be 
played on Wednesday, Mar. 9 and at time of purchase. A student may 
Thursday, Mar. 10. The semifinal present four ID's for four tickets. series would be played on Satur­Students should bring separate day, Mar. 10. The semifinal series checks, one for each series, paya­would be played on Saturday, Mar. ble to University of Notre Dame. 12 and Sunday, Mar. 13. The final Student season ticket holders 
series would be played on Wednes­will have first priority in purchas­day, Mar. 16 and Thursday, Mar. ing play-off tickets. Students who 
17. Face-off time for all six games present the face of their season 
would be at 7:30 p.m. couple book with their ID card on Tuesday, Mar. 1 from 9 a.m. -5 
p.m. at the ticket windows on the second floor of the ACC will receive tickets in Sec. 8. 
All other Notre Dame and St. Mary's students may purchase play-off tickets beginning Wednes­day, Mar. 2 from 9 a.m. toS p.m. at the Gate Ten ticket window of the ACC. Sale will last until the ticket supply is exhausted. 
If Notre Dame does not host the quarterfinals, semifinals and or finals, tickets for unplayed games can be refuned by presenting them or mailing them to the Ticket Office of the ACC. 

NO Bengal Bouts approach 
by Monte Towle Sports Writer 

The boxing highlight of the year for Notre Dame students and residents of the Michiana area commences this coming Sunday · with the opening of the Bengal Bouts at the Athletic and Convoca­tion Center. This year's boxing tourney is its 47th since its incep­tion in 1931 and provides highly competitive matches for Notre Dame students. Second round action will be March 6 with the championship bouts slated for March 8. 
The 1976 Bengal Bouts were the most successful in its history with more than $17,000 being raised for Catholic missionaries working for Christ in Bangladesh. This total marked a doubling over the amount raised in 1975 and establishes a goal for this year's bouts. 
A record number of participants will be including the field with close to ·100 boxers expected. Included in this total will be about 40 novices who reported for train­ing in September while the vete­rans began organized training fol­lowing Christmas break. 
"The boxers have been coming along fine and will be in gre_at shape for the fights," Tom Suddes explained. Suddes has been help­ing to train the boxers along with others such as Terry Johnson, Roland Chamblee and Dr. Charles Rice. These four have all contri­buted their efforts during the absence of Tournament Director Dominick "Nappy" Napolitano who has been recovering from open heart surgery. It's Nappy who gets most of the credit for the long time growth of the Bengal Bouts. 
"Nappy has been the guy that has kept the bouts going, especially over the last 25 years," explains Rich Hunter, who has been in charge of this year's promotions. "His duties have been limited this year although he has been helping out with the boxers since the The list includes Joe Cooler, Jim middle of February." Quinn ·and Pat Concannon from 
Additional training help has 1976 and Matt McGrath who cap­been contributed by some of the' tured one of the crowns two years veteran boxers themselves as they ago. They will all find the going help to prepare the more inexper­even tougher this year as they are ienced fighters. One such person is just a few of the good fighters who senior Phil Harbert, a two-time will be -distributed among the 16 champion and president of the weight classes. . Notre Dame Boxing Club. "A number of the novice boxers 
''Training has been held. on a have looked really tough in practice daily basis since the beginning of sessions," Suddes cautioned. the semester," Harbert stated. "They should prove to be quite "We do calisthenics for about 35 competitive." minutes and then do alot of It is the competitive spirit of the running. In the last couple of Bengal Bouts which continues to weeks, there has been more ring draw thousands of area boxing fans tactics taught which include the to the ACC to see this sports throwing of punchs and setting up spectacle which has become a defenses." traditional late winter highlight. 
. Besides Harbert, there will be And the spirit once again becomes four other returning and former a reality as close to 50 bouts will champions who will be taking to the mark the end of this Sunday's ring in this year's Bengal Bouts. bouts. 
The forty-seventh annual Bengal Bouts will start this Sunday at the. 
ACC. [Photo by Chris Smith] 


