~------~--·------~~~--~--------~-------------.----------------------------~·~--------·------------------­
Senate l'lans uncertain 
Advisory group in limbo 
by Ma1meen Flynn ed, and not in short-range deci­The then-provost noted that the Edltorltd Editor sions. faculty and administrators, voting Dougherty said that his commit­separately (faculty first), reached 
Ramifications of Fr. James T. tee will be drafting a "job descrip­the same consensus in all but three Burtchaell's recent resignation tion" of the provost's office from a cases. "In those cases l took the from the office of provost and the faculty perspective as an aid to the advice of the faculty group; in all future of the advisory process he search committee that will be others I followed the consensus of used in faculty .appointments and appointed by the Academic Coun­both groups," Burtchaell said. He promotions formed the crux of the cil. concluded that it was his intention year's first Faculty Senate meeting Certain presumptions, Dougher­to continue the process this year. last night. ty stated, "have made (the office of Senate discussion of Burtchaell's 
Prof. James Dougherty, chair­provost) an ambiguous seat to move centered on the authority of man of the Senate's Committee on occupy." the advisory group in appointments Administration, termed Burt­Prof. John Lyon said that the and promotions and the composi­
chaell's resignation and that of new provost is very likely to be less tion of the faculty element. In David Sparks, dlirector of Univer­of an academician than Burtchaell. addition, Senate Vice-Chairman sity libraries, "serious changes in "That would leave academics more Prof. Sarah Daugherty questioned the structure of the University.'' or less in the hands of the president the provost's authority to open The circumstanc,es surrounding the and the board of trustees," Lyon confidential faculty files to his vacating of tht: provost's office noted. "However one felt about selected advisors. suggest that "the role of the Burtchaell's style and his policies, Faculty advisors debated trustees in rdation to the Univer­this does not bode well for us." Lyon, chairman of an ad hoc sity may be changing," Dougherty Prof. A. Murty Kanury observed Senate committee studying the use noted. A Senate report on the that the resignation offers "an of the faculty advisors, said that "a Trustees several years ago indicat­excellent chance for the faculty to significant number" of candidates ed that the board was mostly wipe the slate clean, to get a sense submitted last year received ad­interested in long-range manage­of cooperation, rather than to verse decisions. He cited figures ment of the University, he explain-perpetuate the animosity that ·has from the provost's office for 1974­



The ObServer 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's Vol. XII, No. 12 Wednesday, September 14, 1977 
20 dead 
Flood ravages Kansas City 
existed for the past several years.'' 1975, which indicated that only ten out of 286 candidates had been
Faculty opinions sought turned down: seven by department Since Burtchaell's resignation, chairmen, two by deans and one bythe fate of an advisory group used the provost. 

by the provost last year in the "The University is in a positionappointments and promotions pro­now to get people of qualitycess is uncertain. The group of six regularly as it couldn't before,"faculty members, chosen by Burt­Lyons said. "It is going to be a lotchaell, met with the provost, the tougher to get promotions anddeans, the vice-president for ad­tenure."
vanced studies and the assistant "The question," he observed,and associate provosts last April to "is how and where the toughreview candidates for appoint­decisions will be made, not if."
ments and promotions and to make Prof. Irwin Press, a member ofrecommendations. 
the ad hoc group, acknowledgedThe administrative group is one that the administration "is worriedtraditionally (until 1976, officially) about a 'good old boy' system"consulted by the provost. Current operating on the departmentalregulations allow the provost to level, but argued that peopleconsult "such advisors as he may outside the department "don'tchoose." 
know the expectations for perfor­Burtchaell outlined the advisory mance in that field. We should at process used last April in an ex least urge the provost to get apost facto letter to the faculty. "In college-level committee, but therefact, and by right," he noted, would still be
''faculty appointments are the most some doubt"about 
their competence, Press said. 
serious action taken at Notre Prof. Lee Tavis, member of the KANSAS CITY, Mo. [AP] -A plain were evacuated. ground garages at a shopping Dame." The six faculty members Senate and one of the six facultychosen "were scholar-teachers who sudden flood fed by 24 hours of On Sunday the weather bureau center, pumping them out in search advisors chosen last spring, defen­
unprecedented rainfall left at least had forecast heavy · thundershow­of additional victims. had been acknowledged to embody ded the process, stressing that the18 dead, 1,200 homeless and the ers, and they came. The first rain By midafternoon, the death toll and represent the highest level of University is ''trans-disciplinary.''
academic excellence, and they also 
city's fanciest shopping area in began pelting the city at midnight for the metropolitan area including Tavis said that he could not speakrepresented different colleges and · near ruin yesterday. and abated about 11 a.m. Monday the suburbs, stood at 17, and there methodologies,'' Burtchaell stated. [continued on page 7]
The city's suburbs in Kansas and after dropping 4-6 inches. But it were reports of other people miss­Missouri also suffered flood dam­began raining again at 7:30 p.m., ing. age and the governors of both raising the total to one foot in some "Wt; have 1110 idea how many states toured the area, intending to areas by midnight. Then, with the cars there are or ifthere's anybody ask for federal disaster aid. damage done in the early morning in any of them," said Frank H. 
Later into the night, rescue hours, the rain quit by noon. Spink Jr., director of emergency workers continued to pump water Rescue workers concentrated preparedness for the city, discuss-out of three underground parking their efforts yesterday on under-[ continued on page 6] garages in the city's renowned Country Club Plaza shopping area, fearing more bodies would be found there. 

Mardi Gras reschectuled 
In mid-evening, Kansas City police reported eight people still by Tony Pace believes that preparation before unaccounted for. the Christmas break by chairperson 
City Manager Robert Kipp said Student Union Director Tom Dan Haugh and his co-workers will preliminary estimates showed that Gryp has decided to move Mardi alleviate somf: of the problems 228 homes, 150 apartments and 500 Gras to a week earlier than was which an earlier deadline might mobile homes suffered at least originally scheduled in order to cause. some damage and that 65 busines­avoid a direct conflict with the The reason this scheduling pro­ses were damaged or destroyed. Sophomore Literary Festival. Mar­blem was discovered this year, 
Many of those were in the Plaza, di Gras will now run from Feb. 3 while it was owrlooked last year, is which prides itself as the nation's through Feb. 12, with the Sopho­the addition of the Student Union first shopping center and still one more Literary Festival (SLF) occur­calendar office. Previously, any of its prettiest. ing as scheduled during the follow­student event~; which were to be 
"I've been here all my life, ing week. scheduled we:re set only on the driven back and forth th the Plaza Gryp, who reached this decision University calf:ndar. in thunderstorms and all of a last week, said that he wanted to Mary Ann Moore, the first sudden it was a lake, " said avoid a situation similar to last year person to be in charge of the Missouri Gov. Joseph Teasdale, a when both Mardi Gras and the SLF Student Union calendar, alerted Kansas City native, as he toured were held durin~ the same week. Gryp of this scheduling overload the shopping center later yesterday during the summer. This gave all
"Students tended to split their 
afternoon. of the involved parties time to
time between these two events 
Teasdale planned to ask Presi­reach a mutually agreeable solu­
rather than enjoy either of them 
dent Carter for a disaster-area tion, Gryp said.
fully," he said. 
declaration, making merchants and "Initially," said Gryp, "the cal­
Because the SLF had asked for
home owners eligible for low-cost endar office was more of a hazard 
their date first and because they
federal loans. than a help, it was just another 
have already received five speaker
As much as a foot of rain fell in variable in the scheduling equa­
confirmations, Gryp thought it
parts of the metropolitan area in tion. 
would be better to move Mardi · 
the 24-hour period that ended at "Now, however," he continued, Student government will hold a Regulations currently in effect 
Gras. "SLF had no special reason
midnight Monday, a record. ''things are more organized. Mary forum tonight at 7 in the LaFortune can be found in duLac, which was 
to request that date initially but
Creeks so small they have no Ann is the bottleneck, everything ballroom to dlscuss the proposed distributed last week. 
now, especially after receiving
names surges over their banks and goes through her. She makes changes of the disciplinary proce­Students with suggestions for 
these confirmations, it is too late
combined to overflow Brush Creek calendar recommendations." dure proposed by the Administra­changes in the present du Lac, as 
for them to change."
running alongside the Plaza before Gryp was most satisfied with the tion. well as those interested in discuss­flowing into the Big Blue River. As far as Mardi Gras is concern­resolution of this situation, saying, Dave Bender, Student Body pre­ing the proposed changes in disci­The water in Brush Creek had ed, Gryp thought the only possible "The SLF and Mardi Gras are not sident, ·invites student reaction and plinary procedures, should attend. 
receded to near normal late in the alternative would be to move it cramped in the same week. We input as to what steps student Bender, as well as other student day, but the Blue still worried earlier, since Mardi Gras officially will have two fine weeks in Febru­government might take toward the government officials, will be pre­officials. Homes along its flood occurs on Tuesday, Feb. 7. Gryp ary instead of one hectic one." proposals. sent. 

Enthusiastic students await their chance to pick up football tickets in anticipation of a successful football season. [Photo by Barbara McGrath] 
Student government forum to discuss discipline 
the observer______ wednescby, September 14, 19n 
~News Briefs----........;. 
t============World 
Leopold StokOUJSki dies 
LONDON -Leopold Stokowski, former conductor of the Philadelphia Symphony, died yesterday at the age of 95. 
The untiring musician was reportedly working until the end, preparing for a recording session in the fall. He had made more _than 20 LPs since his 90th birthday, and only last year signed a contract that would have kept him busy until he was 100. 
Stokowski built his reputation in nearly 25 years at the helm of the Philadelphia Orchestra, starting in 1912. Critics ranked him with the late Arturo Toscanini and the late Serge Koussevitsky as the titans of symphonic art. 
Clwlera confirmed in Lebanon 
BEIRUT, Lebanon -The number of confirmed cholera victims in Syria rose to 2,300 yesterday and scores of cases were reported in neighboring Jordan and Lebanon. Other Mideastern countries moved to check the spreading epidemic. The outbreak of the disease was spread by contamination of food and water. 
~atherweatherweatherweatherweathe 
Partly sunny and mild today with highs in the low to mid 70's. Increasing cloudiness and cool tonight with lows in the mid to upper SO's. Considerable cloudiness with a chance of showers and thunderstorms. Highs in the low to mid 70's. · 



~On Campus Today_~ 
3:30pm lecture "angel pope and papal antichrist" by prof. bernard me ginn, univ, of chicago, sponsored by medieval inst., rm. 715 mem. lib., open to public 
4:30 pm colloquim "hadron interactions from the viewpoint of complex angular momentum" by prof. robert. I. warnock, ill. inst. of technology, sponsored by physics dept. nieuwland science hall, open to public 
7 pm meeting aie-sec organizational meeting Iafortune theatre 
7 pm colloquim "theology and life for freshman" rm 122 hayes-healy 
7 pm forum student government for student input to du lac revision Ia fortune ballroom 
7, 9:15 & film "the day of the locust", sponsored by dancin' 
11:30 pm irish, eng aud. $1, also Sept. 15 
7:30 
pm american scene cultural series, "viewing an art exhibit" by staff smc art dept., little theatre 

7:30 
pm informal lecture "field work in anthropology" by penny van esterele lib. lounge 


7:30pm meeting nd/smc council for the retarded, organiza­tional meeting, lib. aud. 
9 pm meeting for all j-board chairman, student govern­ment offices 

Margo Hoff collages shown at Moreau Gallery Three 
Moreau Gallery Three, at Saint Mary's College, will open on Sept. 16 with an exhibit of canvas collages by Margo Hoff, 1977 Artist in Residence at the College. The public is invited to the opening reception from 7 to 9 p.m. 
Nile Baha'i group sponsors bus trip 
The Nile Baha'i group is spon­soring a bus trip to the Baha'i Huse of Worship for North America. Anyone interested should make reservations before Monday, Sept­ember 19 by calling 683-3666. 
I hP Ob~ervPr IS published Monday through Fndav 
except durmg thP exam and vatat1on pt>nods The Observer is publi~hed by studPnts of thP Un1vers1ty of Notre Dame and St Mary's College Subscnpt1ons may bP purchased for $20 per year ($10 per sernPster} from The Obser­ver. Box Q. Notre Dame, lnd1ana 46~56 Second class postagP paid. Notn• Dame, lnd1ana 46556 
ThP Observer IS a member of the Assonated Press All reproduLtion nghh are rP~ervPd 
Hoff's works have been exhibit­ed in many museums, the Art Institute of Chicago, the SMithson­ian Institution and the University of Notre Dame. 
Gallery viewing hours are from 
12:30 to 4:30 p.m. 
*The Observer 
Night Editor: Steve Odland Asst. Night Editor: Sandy Colson 
Layout Staff: Margie Brassil, Bart Corsaro Sports Layout: Tony Pace 
Typists: Mark Rust, Tricia Meehan, Eileen Lynch, super mellow EMT: K.C. 
Day Editor: Kate Flynn Copy Reader: Joan Fremaeau Ad Layout: John P. O'Connell Photographer: Barbara Me• Grath 
~ 


2:05? 

Nazz opens stage to any amateurs 
The Nazz will host an open stage this Thursday from 9 to 11 p.m. for any amateur entertainers who wish to demonstrate their talents. Performers may sign up with the Nazz staff after 8:30p.m. tonight. Everyone is welcome. 
Asian-Am club will hold meeting 
An organizational meeting for the ND-SMC Asian-American Club will take place tomorrow at 7:30 
p.m. in the Memorial Library lounge. 
All interested students are invit­ed to attend. For information call Craig Lem at 8693, Eugene Yang at 232-9170, Terease Chin at 4-4692 or Michelle Batacan at 6834. 


Business Council will hold election 
Elections will be held Monday for this year's Junior and Senior representatives to the Business College Council. These two stu­dents will serve on the council with the chairman of the Business Activities Council. 
. St. Mary's Adivities Night will take place tonight in Regina Nor1h Lounge, starting at 7. 
Those interested in running for the position may submit their names and phone numbers to Fr. Schlaver in Room 133 Hayes-Healy by this Friday. 
The election will take place in the Hayes-Healy lobby. 
J-Board chairmen asked to meet 
There will be a meeting for the hall J-Board Chairmen tonight at 9 in the Student Government Office. If a chairman cannot attend or hasn't been selected yet, contact John Talbot at 1692 or Steve Dane at 1559. 
New times told 


for Soph picnic 
The time for the Sophomore class picnic, on Saturday, September 24, has been changed from H:30 a.m. -5 p.m. to 5 p.m. -10 p.m. 

Lockers for rent 
to OC students 
Off-Campus students in need of lockers may rent them, for a nominal fee, in the basement of LaFortune. Contact the LaFortune Manager's Office, today, between 
8:30 a.m. and 4 p.m. 


United Way plans kick-off program 
The 1977 United Way campaign will begin this Thursday with a kick-off program featuring former South Bend businessman, Frank E. Sullivan, Sr. The 6:15 program, scheduled for Saint Mary's Little Theatre, will be preceded by a 5:30 social hour in Hamme's Gallery. Persons planning to attend should contact United Way at 232-8201 to make reservations by Sept. 9. 

12 inch SUBMARINES SANDWICHES





JULIO'S 
SPAGHETTI DEEP DISH 

12 in. t4 in 
SPAGHETTI  half  full  & REGULAR  
With sauce With meatballs  1.65 1.85  2.20 2.50  PIZZA  
PIZZA  

Cheese 2.55 3.05 Sausage 3.10 3.95 Mushroom 3.10 3.95 Pepperoni 3.10 3.95 Green Fepper 3.10 3.95 Ground Beef 3.10 3.95 Ham 3.10 3.95 Onion 3.10 3.95 Andlovy 3.10 3.95 Black Olive 3.10 3.95 (Cheese plus any 2 items) 3.50 4.45 (Cheese plus any 3 items) 3.90 4.95 Cheese plus any 4 items) 4.30 5.45 
Pan Pizza $1.00 extra 


232-7919 

913Y2 LWW South Bend 
•delivery fee 
S.75 plus tax 

DELIVERY WITH OUR PORTABLE OVENS 

Needs 
• ENTERTAINERS ••••• 
•

• Nightly
• • get your act •
•

••• together and •••••• bring it to •• • the NAZZ • 
• call 1575 to find out how •
•.............................................., 

----~--~--­
----~~ 
Wednesday, September 14, 19n tbe observer 
Committee reports 


Recommendations made for co-education 
by David O'Keefe Features Editor As a result, the committee EDITOR'S NOTE: This Is the recommends that social space in 
second In a three-part series of halls and on campus be made articles which examtne the report ·.available to stu~ents of legal age rued last May to the Committee to for parties at whtch alcohol may be 
Evaluate Coeducation. This second served. article examines the recommend&-The Commi~ee also rec~m­tlons made by the Committee mends the asstgnment of a htgh 
concemlng Residence Ball Life, priority to the construction of "an Security Sexuality Education and adequate and centrally located Athletic~. · student center.'' 
The Committee made several Finally, the Committee reviewed recommendations in this area. One co-educational housing, although, designed to remedy the imbalance by their own admissioti, they were in class distribution among halls unable to examine the issue as advises the Director of Housing extensively as they would have with studying the situation and liked to. devising a plan whereby women Nevertheless, the Committee can more fully enjoy the benefits of recommends that the President Notre Dame's "stay-hall" policy. appoint a new committee to consid-
The most significant recommen-er co-educational housing and, "if dations in this area were precipita-feasible, plan for its implementa­ted by the Committee's finding that tion in 1978"79." the vast majority of the University Although the ,report emphasizes community feels that structured the Committees unanimous sup­opportunities for social interaction port for all-male and all-female are "simply inadequate." housing as the University's "pri-

Santos speaks on aging 
by Michael Lewis 
Staff Reporte1· 
Dr. John Santos of the Notre Dame department of psychology addressed approximately 30 stu­dents and faculty members yester­day on "The Psycholcgy of aging." Speaking in the Galvin Life Science Center auditorium, S.mtos exprt:ssed despair at the 
lack of help given the eluerly. 
"I have been amazed that so little has been done to help the Plderly who c~nnot cope with day to day living." he said. 
Santos ..:ited :.everal recent stu­dies .m the elderly, concentrating on the relationship betweP.n intelli­genct. factors and the ability to "cope" or "survive." 
He also criticized the idea of senility, maintaining that many peopk deemed h'lpe!essly senile could be reltabilitated. 
Cross-sectional studies of gener­al I.Q. by age groups reveal a rapid dedine in l.Q. after age 25 Santos said. He then rev~aled other studies which show that genera­tional differences may be more 6 important in these studie!. than age differences. 
He also cited research which 
Dr. John Santos criticizing acceptance of senility in the elderly. [Photo by Barbara McGrath] 

proved that general intelligence combinatim. of many problems, and verbal ability doe~ not decline such as money and health, contri­as quickly as the I.Q. tests would bute to the elderly's sense of indicate. withdrawal and aselessnf'SS. 
Santos said that these studies, "Health problems have tremen­combined with his earlier work with dous impact and implications on mentally retarded patients, con-the elderly's ability to cope," he vinced his the the "senile" could said. be rehabilitr ted to leaJ fuller lives. Santos concluded by stressing 
"I saw mental retardation that "it would be worth an all-out cilange from an impossible situa-effort' if only one person were able don to a new, promising field," to lead a more enjoyable life 
Santos said. "After that, I couldn't through rehabilitation. believe that we }lad to do it all over Santos received his undergrad­again with respect to the elderly uate degrees from Tulane Univer­and senility." sity. Since coming to Notre Dame 
He also poi'1ted out what he he has ~een active in intJ:oducing called the "pi~gy-back" effect, on academtc programs to bnng stu­the elderly. Santos explained the dents closer to the elderly. 
I~---~~~~--------~,Attention Neighborhood 1
IRoots Participants: 1 I I I I I The Roots experience begins IIat the Library Circle at 4:1 0 pm I 1 Thursday Sept. 15, 1977 I I IIParticipants wHhout tickets must I 1 pick them up at the Student Gov. I I Office In LaFortune 1 




I ~ ______________,•
\ I· 
mary model,'' they nevertheless feel that "no single model can serve the purposes of all." It was 
this sentiment that recommendation on housing._  led coe to duca the tion  
Security  

Many steps have been taken to insure the protection of women at Notre Dame since the adoption of coeducation. Nevertheless, the Committee did find some areas lacking. 
As a result, the report contains recommendations for the installa-, tion of emergency phones in re­mote areas of campus, a more careful and consistent maintenance 
. of campus lighting, and the de­velopment of a media presentation designed to a•cquaint women with security measures. Also, they suggested an investigation of a system whereby dates would be allowed to dritve on campus during 
late hours and inclement weather. :men's athl~tics at the University Of the men and women who "random" and "constrained;" the answered the Committee question­
Committee recommends that the airre, 60 percent felt a need for Athletic Department hire a woman additional programs and course 
as Assistant Director of Athletics as offerings in human sexuality. For well as provide coaches for_ wo­its part, the Committee feels that men's club teams and offer grants­an understanding of sexuality is in-aid to the varsity women's 
teams.

"integral to the total development 
of every man and woman." Anticipating the continued lqevelopment of athletic programs
Accordingly, the Committe rec­women, the Committee furtherommends that an inter-disciplinary recommends that a woman bead hoc committee be appointed to added to the Sports Informationestablish a new curricular program Staff, that present locker facilitiesin human sexuality. 
at the Rockne Memorial and theSimilarly, it further recommends ACC be expanded, and that morethe cooperative development of courses in dance be offered.

extracurricular programs by Cam­pus Ministry, Psychological Ser­In addition to the areas covered vices, and the Counseling Center to above, the Committee also recom­be made available in individual mends the addition of more quali­residence halls as well as on the fied women to the Campus Minis­campus at large. try Staff and the active encourage­
ment of female participation in Athletics 

alumni organizations by the offi­Calling the development of wo-cers of the local clubs. 
SMC SOCIAL COMMISSION 
presents the 

SECOND CITY 
• •. in an all new comedy revue 
Sat., Sept. 17 
8:00 p.m. 
O'Laughlin Auditorium, SMC 
STUDENTS $2.00 GENERAL ADMISSION $3.00 
Tickets available at SMC Program-· ming Office 
The Stroh Brewery Company, Detroit, Michigan 48226 
.. 
--.. ·--­
~~~~~~ 
.=4~_ __~t..._b.l.!eiL.lo __----=-w:...:ed=nesday. Seotember 14, 1977
011bW,Iiilsa!M.Irv.I.lllieur 


Badin laundromat offers 'clean' alternative 
Ed Callahan 
Male students finding their weekly wash load becoming too expensive at the campus laundry now have another option: the Badin Laundromat. 
In preceding years, men were often seen sneaking in a load of clothes at one of the women's dorms, or conning a lady friend into doing to for them. Now that they have their own facilities for wash­ing many are taking advantage of them. 
"1 do my two dollar sixty cents worth at the school laundry, but I only send over jeans and towels. They have a tendency to crush buttons when they press my shirts," commented a freshman launderer. 
Overall, the majority of users are pleased with the performance so far this year. "I can come down here. wash my weekly overload, and get some work done at the same time," one user noted. 
The laundromat is equipped with six desks, six washers, six driers, and three vending machines with refreshments. 
However several students ex­pressed the need for both a moneychanger and a coin-operated detergent machine. 
For some first time visitors were surprised to find that they had to bring their own detergent. Brother Ryan, vice-president of Business Affairs, said that he wouldjefinitely look into the prospect of a det~r­gent machine. 
The outlook for a moneychanger is less optimistic. 
"With the mens' laundry open twenty-four hours a day, the in­stallation: of a 'change machine would be an open invitation to vandalism," Ryan stated. 
Complaints have also been ex­pressed about the driers. 
"One load takes at least two runs throught the drier, sometimes ­more on a heavy bundle, "men­tioned a patron with an armload of damp clothes. 
The driers run anywhere from ten minutes to an hour reported 
iLOUiFS"PIZZA'''IS''HOT'''AND''GEITING<'~l 
} HOTTERI t 
; 
: 
lfs old country style induding generous amounts of cheese, thick cut ingredients, chunky sausage, and special tomato sauce, on LDuie's famous aust! The flavor you remember! 
:::~::::::::::::::::SPECIAl 25~ BEER EVERY WEDS 10-12 =:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:~:! 


to Where the Krunch Is! 
FISH & CHIPS LEMON LUV (dessert)· SHRIMP, I 
DRINKS -PEPSI 
CHICKEN LEMONADE
KRUNCH PUP CHOWDER ICED TEA 
Due to tremendous response there 
10% Discount with I.D. 
various sources. Actual' drying 
time is approximately 28 minutes. 
''The driers are all commercially 
set for standard times by the firm 
that owns them,"added Ryan. "It 
is the same time found in regular 
laundromats." 
The machines thus far have not 
needed any major repairs. 
"There wasn't any hot air in one 
drier for a while and another one 
didn't work at all, but those 
obviously have been taken care 
of, "reported one Badin regular. 
"The machines also have an occa­
sional tendency to consume quart-­
ers with no results which hurts at 
such a high price." 
Weekend afternoons are usually 
peak washing times, but usually no 
more than four to six people are 
there at most other time preiods. 
"We would like to keep the 
number of machines where it is 
now" said Ryan. 
"We are hoping that the stu­
dents will take some responsibility 
for the machines if they want to 
continue using them. I think it will 
work out well, especially if early 
indications continue," he conclu­
ded• 




Government students write book 
by Florenceann Strigle thropic extracurriculars than class anyone interested for three credit 
work" inspired Schmidt to develop hours per semester. 
Six to eight students under the this program where students could' Presently, six students are en­guidance of government instructor get credit for doing academic work rolled in the study and two students Janet Schmidt, are writing a book on out-of-class interests. are auditing it. "I hoped for fifteen 
on the problems poor countries face "I couldn't give someone aca­or sixteen people to work on the 
in feeding their people. The demic credit for holding a bucket book; but, I admit, as people came 
manuscript, whose first draft's outside of a dining hall," said to me to sign up, I discouraged projected completion date is Janu­Schmidt, ''but a scholarly pursuit them. I wanted them to know it ary, is being used to teach students of high quality" in this field was a serious committment of 
basic skills in management, writ­"deserves credit." time." It is a two semester study ing, interviewing, research, and Schmidt said the idea for the and "they must be willing to spend publication. course came too late to offer the their breaks working." Former students of Schmidt who study in the course schedule. Schmidt, a graduate of Berkley 
were "more involved in philan-However, the class is open to who is currently writing her disser­
tation for a Ph.D. on the ocean as a 
source offood for the Third World,

'New' energy department 
hopes to utilize books and docu­ments as sources for the manu­script, as well as interviews with


created by President Carter 
"people in Washjngton, United 


WASHINGTON [AP] -President Carter signed an order yesterday setting up the Department of Energy and immediately began naming the officials to help lead it. 
He told a news conference that creation of the department fulfilled a campaign pledge to begin reor­ganizing the federal goverment. 
The new department, whose first annual budget will total almost $10.4 billion, will include almost 20,000 employees when it starts operations Oct. 1. 
Carter noted that gasoline con­sumption reached a new high this summer and oil imports have continued to increase despite the many public warnings of potential energy shortages. He said new efforts would be necessary to stimulate energy conservation and additional production. 
Carter's nominations for the new 
Student Union Plant Sale 
Sponsered b!J the S.JJ. Seruices Commission· 
Sat., Sept. 17 


11:00 am 
LaFortune Ballroom All Plants at Wholesale Cost 
energy nominations for the new Nations officials, and those involv­
Energy Departments were headed ed with organizations such as the 
by John F. O'Leary, now adminis­Agency for International Develop­
trator of the Federal Energy Admi­ment.'' 
nistration, who was named deputy "I realize we are ambitious," 
secretary of energy. says Schmidt. "It's going to be 
His nomination and nineothers of hard to get someone to read it (the 
Carter's require Senate confirma­manuscript), let alone publish it." 
tion. Energy Secretary James R. However, she maintains, "chan­
Schlesinger also announced eight neling energy into something like 
more appointments which do not this is appropriat(; for a university 
require confirmation. and more than worthwhile." 

More about Mr. Lance 
Washing ton [AP] -The chief bank regulator in Atlanta was quoted yesterday as saying Bert Lance wanted to know long before the 1976 election what could be done about federal restreictions on his bank if he was named to a high post in the Carter administration. 
But Donald L. Tarleton, the Atlanta regional comptroller who eventually dropped those restric­tions, denied the account after it was released by the Senate Govern­mental Affairs Committee. And another witness said he did not recall that part of the conversation. 
Sen. Charles H. Percy, (R-111.), introduced an affidavit by banking examiner Charles Francis Stuart that recounted a meeting with Tarleton and another bank exami­ner in Atlanta on May 13, 1976. That was five months before a "cease and desist" agreement with the Calhoun First National Bank was lifted by Tarleton and seven months before Lance became bud­get director. 
The Internal Revenue Service, the United States, Lance would be nominated to a high position in the Carter administration. 
"Mr. Tarleton further stated that one of Lance's banks was under an agreement with the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency; that Lance spoke with him Tarleton about what could be done to deal with the agreement in the event an FBI background investigation materialized." 
A spolesman for Lance said the budget director would respond when he testifies before the com­mittee Thursday and Friday. 
Lance and Carter held their regular weekly meeting yesterday. A White House spokesman said they did not discuss whether Lance should resign. 
.:farleton repeated his assertion that--Lance had never asked him to lift tho restrictions on the bank. 
Thomas C. Brown, the other bank examiner present, said in another affidavit that he remem­bers Tarleton saying Lance proba­bly would get a high government position but does not remember 

which summarized Stuart's testi­Tarleton mentioning anything fur­mony, said Stuart believed he saw ther about Lance. Lanct} leave Tarleton's office JUSt Tarleton lifted the agreement on before the meeting. Nov. 2.2, 1976, the same day he met
.lades 
Palms Wandering Jews It added, "Tarleton specifically for an hour with Lance. Lance's stated that Lance told him that if nomination was announced several Mr. Carter was elected president of days later. 
New check cashing policy allows students $50 cash 
by Laurie Lee Foss Staff Reporter 
A new check cashing policy at the cashier's office in the Administration Building will go into effect Sept. 19, accord­ing to Tom Soma, Student Body vice president. The new policy enables working stu­dents to cash checks up to $50, 
an increase over the previous limit of $35. 
Soma submitted the propos­al to Bro. Kieran Ryan, assist­ant vice president for Business Affairs, at the request of several student employees. Due to this year's increase in wages for dining hall workers, many paychecks exceeded the previous limit. 

Students react in favor of Roots Progra_m in city 
by Maureen Eyres Staff Reporter 
Response to the Neighborhood Roots Program is "overwhelming" according to Valerie Hardy, Stu­dent Union commissioner of Social and Interracial Concerns. A cross­section of 226 students and 65 alumni, faculty, and their spouses will participate in the orientation to the South Bend Community to be held this Thursday. 
The sponsors, CILA, the Center 
for Experiential Learning, adn the 
Urban Studies Program, had origi­
nally projected a goal of 250 
participants. 
For students who have signed 
up, the program will begin at the 
Library Circle at 4:10p.m. and not 
at the Main Circle at 4:30 p.m. as 
reported in last Wednesday's Ob­
server. 
At this time students will be 
assigned to cars for the neighbor­
hood tours to be conducted by 
alumni, faculty, and their spouses 
and will receive information pac­
kets. 
After the tour, the groups will 
meet at the AB Falcon Club at 
approximately 5:20 p.m. for a 
traditional Polish wedding meal 
followed by talks on various aspects 
and issues of the neighborhood. 
Return to campus will be at 
approximately 8:30 p.m. 
Fast earns money 
The World Hunger Coalition's Wednesday-night fast program will begin next week. The fast, which began two years ago as a fund-rais­ing project, has raised approxim­ately $8,000 per year to help alleviate world hunger. 
Of the money collected, three­
fourths has gone for overseas relief 
and one-fourth has been contribu­
ted to the poor in South Bend. 
Agencies such as CARE and 
OXF AM are funded by the Hunger 
Coalition. 
Sign-up sheets will be distribut­
ed tonight and Thursday night at 
the dining halls. 
Registered students are remin­ded to purchase their tickets for $1.00 at the Student Government Office. If this arrangement is impossible, tickets can be picked up at the Library Circle on Thurs­day prior to departure. 

Laundry bundles limited to one 
by Lou Severino 
Students who use more than one 
laundry bundle per week will be 
required to pay cash for the extra 
bundles, as a result of policy 
changes announced by the Laundry 
Service. 
Laundry Director Adloph Keglo­
vits stated that, ''Quite a few 
students put three or four bundles 
down in one week last year which 
slowed up service considerably." 
This occurred quite often later in 
the semester last year, according to 
Keglovits. As a result, this year's 
students will be allowed fifteen 
bundles, one for each week of the 
semester. 
Junior Jeff Smith, commenting 
on the new policy, stated that "It is 
unfair to pay thirty-nine dollars for 
laundry and not be allowed to get 
service equal to that amount.'' 
Another change deals with carry­
down laundry. These bundles, 
brought to the laundry by students 
will not be processed until the 
week's work has been completed. 
Keglovits attributed this rule to the 
laundry tyring to maintain an even 
flow and equalize the work load. 
A third change deals with lost 
laundry cards. A duplicate will cost 
five dollars as compared to last 
year's no charge. Keglovits esti­
mated that seven hundred dupli­
cate cards were made last year. 
''This change in policy will help to 
insure better overall service anc 
fewer paperwork problems," he 
said. 
Keglovits stressed that, "The 
laundry tries to offer the best 
service possible to the students 
although problems do arise at 
times." 


The Knights Men's Hairstyling 
Treat yourself the month of Sept. with a styled haircut and blowstyle combination, and receive a free condition! It will give you back that natural sheen that the Summer months have deprived yooaf. This is a $13.00 value for $8.50. 
Miss Sharon Miss Connie 
.s~a;:ge~uttn'~ 
(a~tlt 

' ~ 54533Terrace Lane 
277_1691 
Lower Level of Queen's Castle Tues. and Wed. 8:30am to 5:30pm Thurs. and Fri. 8:30 am to 8:30 pm Sat. 8:30 am to S pm Oosed Monday 


Wednesday, September 14, 1977 

SMC Octoberfest featu1res Biergarten . _ 
by Am11e Baeble 
Plans for the fourth annual Oktoberfest, to be held Sept. 28 ­Oct. 1, are well underway, accord­ing to Oktoberfest Chairman Kathy 
Friday.  The  traditional  event,  
sponsored by  St.  Mary's  Social  
Commission  was  initiated  as  an  

autumn counterpart to An Tostal. 
Usually held in mid-October, Oktoberfest '77 has been pushed ahead this year so as not to interfere with mid-terms, and also to better coincide with its larger counterpart in Germany. 
During the last week in Septem­ber, t-shirts and raffle tickets for a Pioneer stereo will be sold in the dining halls on both campuses. For those 21 and older, Oktoberfest will begin Wednesday night with beer specials.at s~:!nior Bar. 
St. Mary"s students will get involved Thursday with a German dinner in the dining hall, complete with German polka band and skits performed by the students. The winner of th~:! hall decorating contest will be announced at this time. Gil Eagles, a magician, will perform for all interested students Thursday night. 
A-happy hour at the Library Friday will be highlighted with various contests. That night St. Mary's will sponsor a dance in Regina Hall, with the band "Sa­hara" playing, while the north lounge of Regina will hold a Biergarten complete with balloons ~d pretzels for tho~e with 2_1 JP~· 
Admission to the dance and Biergarten is $2, while the dance alone will cost $1. 
A Groucho Marx look-alike con­test, to be held that evening, will permit anyone dressed like Grou­cho to be admitted free. The one judge to "look mos! alike" will be awarded a prize. 
The weekend will be capped with the Michigan State game Saturday, and a concert that evening. 
Anyone desiring to help with sign-making and other activities should meet in the St. Mary's Social Commission office in the basement of Regina Sunday at 3 p.m. 
1the observer 
Bar-B-Que 





i. & 
Beer 



-·~~'8

_and 
LDunge 
Featuring the finest 
in hickory ~moked ol. 
barbeque-oooked over 
an open pit with spedal 
sauce 
Thursday is 
9 closing
u 
H py Hour Prices 
4-3 a.m. daily 

1132 S. Bend 
Ave. 
closed Sun.

·Phone and Mon.
289-0639 

YOU SAY YOU WANT A ROOMFUL OF MUSIC BUT YOU JUST SPENT A FORTUNE ON BOOKS? 
HOW DOES A $299Advent, SO~NY. ,U)0(9" STER.E0. s·OUND ? , IMPRESSIVE! 

Our new $300 stereo system Is really a spectacular bargain, designed to blow your mind but not your budget. 
The amazing system is built around some incredible loud­speakers from the Advent Corporation, the company that has a reputation for making better and better speakers for less and less 
money. 

The Advent 3 speakers are a two way acoustic suspension design whose basic operation is much like that of Advenrs more expensive speaker sys­tems. Its woofer's cone is free to move over a great distance to push air effectively for good bass response, and it has a heavy and expensive magne­tic structure that permits ex­cellent undlstorted output. A precise cone tweeter assures clear highs with excellent dispersion. 
To drive these little gems, we've chosen the Sony StR 1800 receiver. If you're into FM, the tuner section of the StR 1800 has all the ciraJitry and features you'll need for drift-free, clear FM reception. 
And If you're inclined to listen to Chicago stations the Sony 1800 receiver will sur­prise you and disappoint the cofT1)etition. 
The turntable is the now famous BIC 920 ready to play 
·with moulded base and an Audio Technica cartridge. It will take good care of your records and get all the sound they have to offer playing after playing. 
These components would sell separately for $415; we offer you the complete system for $299. The price Includes assembly and the services only Audio . Specialists can offer. 
Come in and enjoy. 
WE NOW STOCK


,AUDIO SPECIALISTS 
l MICROCOMPUTERS
415 North Michigan 234-5001 
r-----~~-r,------.._.-------:-----~------------~---~-------­
\ 
the oiDrver Wednesday, September 14, 19n
8 

Manned test flight of Enterprise 'fun' 

EDWARDS AIR FORCE BASE,
., Calif. [AP] • The Space Shuttle Enterprise yesterday maintained
N So. Bend, IJid. 
its record of doing everything it
N 
Phone 232·2271 
was designed to do, gliding
> 
through sparkling desert skies to a 
flawless touchdown on its second free flight test. 
Beer • Wine Liquor 
Serving lunch, etc. 11 a.m. 
During the five-minute, 20-secondto2:00 p.m. 
descent from the back of the
4:110 to 12:110 alx days a weak. 
Boeing 747 jumbo jet, the two-man crew of the delta-winged craft turned, banked and rolled the prototype spacecraft from side-to­
Uhe 
"'ide and landed it without a hitch. 
l1)i1~jammer 
Award committee 
chairman needed
CREATIVE 
Any Senior Class member inter­
HAIR DESIGN 
ested in being chairman of the Senior Fellow Committee should
FOR THE SEXES 
submit a one page resume to the secretary in the Student Activities Office in LaFortune, by Monday, 
REL~XING 
ATMO~~"HERE 
Sept. 19. Experience in previous
-
activities, ideas for the Senior
FREE HAIR ANALYSIS 
Fellow award, and special talents RK RETAILCENTER 
will be considered when reviewing applications. 

If any senior is interested in 
1637 LW'Iv 
working on the committee, call
So. ~end 232-6622 
either the Student Activities office 
Appt. only. 
at 7308, or stop by to leave your name and phone number with the 
secretary. 

. . 
Are you bogged down already? 
picnic will be a success because "it is a chance for the members of the 
SPEED READING LESSO~ 
senior class to meet with each other 
·:asually, relax in a nice atmos­
' here, and have a really good 
.ime.''



Increase Your Reading Speed 50-100°/o 
K.C. floods 

COMPARE AND DECIDE 
Dynamic Ra•dlng Syw~tams Inc. 
D.R.S. guarantees in writing to at least triple your Dynamic Reading Speed or you will receive a FULL refund. 
Advanced Course Lifetime membership enables our graduates to 
retake the course to extend their skills at no additional charge. Tuition Assistance Payment Plan. NO 
Finance Charge!! $175.00 
I ­I 
Monday 
' r Tuesday Wednesday 
Thursday 
Friday 
"Looks beautiful from chase," radioed the pilot of one of the comparatively tiny jets that flew alongside the 75-ton glider. 
Yesterday's flight was a preview of how the Shuttle's earth-orbit space-flight will end-not with the ocean-splash down of previous manned missions but with an airplane-style soar through the atmosphere and a runway landing. 
"That sure was fun," came the word from Enterprise after space­craft commander Joe Engle, 45, and copilot Richard Truly, 41, brought the rolling craft to a stop after a dusty dry lake landing. 
At a press briefing later, the flight was described as "essentially per­fect,' by the test program manager, Donald K. Slayton, who added, "We're ready to go again." 
Engle and Truly praised the Shuttle for its handling qualities and said that each of them had had about equal time at the craft's controls. 
"There really weren't any sur­prises in flying the aircraft," Truly added. 
Two other astronauts had guided the craft during its first free flight Aug. 12. Yesterday's cruise was much the same except that Engle and Truly used the cockpit controls to put the stubby winged Shuttle through maneuvers. 
As before, the powerless Enter­to move wing and tailflaps to put prise descended along a U-shaped the craft through preprogrammed course over the sprawling NASA maneuvers. Dryden Flight Research Center. After the next flight, scheduled Rounding one of the corners more for Sept. 27, the Shuttle will be sharply, Engle rolled the craft flown to Alabama for vibration nearly onto its side, exposing the tests. black-painted belly. During this There, the craft will be mated with tight turn, the craft and crew were a-giant fuel tank which will be used subjected to forces of nearly twice for the first space-launch, in 1979. the strength of gravity. A fleet of Shuttles is planned to 
The crewmen also tested auto­carry scientific and industrial car­matic control systems that can gos such as satellites and space guide the entire flight automa­stations into earth orbit at a rate of tically. With Truly calling out the about one flight a week during the numbers, Engle punched a panel of 1980's. The craft, to-be launched buttons like those on a pushbutton by rockets, is designed to remain phone. inspace for up to 30 days before 
The signal told a system under the returning to earth for refurbishing control of four onboard computers for additional missions. 

ND-SMC senior picnic planned near clubhouse 
by Jim Coyne Friday, Sept. 16, and end at 
Staff Reporter midnight, the picnic will be "one of 
the largest senior class events this 
year," according to Pat Flynn, ND 
The grounds surrounding the senior class president. 
Saint Mary's Clubhouse will be the Flynn expects between 1600 site for this year's Notre Dame · and 1800 seniors out of a possible St. Mary's senior class picnic. 3,000 to attend the event, which Scheduled to begin at 2 p.m. will feature recorded music and typical "picnic games," such as 
• 
sack races and wheelbarrow races. To eliminate an admission charge, hot dogs, bratwurst, soda and beer will be sold on a per item basis. 
UNIVERSITY OF 
Coordinators Greg Switaj of Notre Dame, and Nancy Mogab of
NOTRE DAME SPECIAL 
St. Mary's, have spent two weeks preparing for the picnic, the first joint effort of the ND-SMC senior class this year. 
"Both campuses have put a lot of time into it, so we hope it will run smoothly," Mogab stated. 
A rain date has been set for Saturday, Sept. 17, from 10 a.m. until S p.m. 
Come to a Last year, the class of 1978 held more events than any other junior class in Notre Dame's history, according to Flynn. "We want to continue that tradition of holding "Knowledge is a reflection of reading"
FREE social events that cater to everyone in our class," Flynn stated. He added that he believes the 
saturate area 

Evelyn Wood Reading Dynamics [continued from page 1]
Partial refund of your tuition if you fail. 
ing the pumping operations at three parking garages in the gar­agesin the Country Oub Plaza 
No advanced course known at this time. 
shopping center. Most shops and stores were closed when the flood
Their graduates are required to pay a 
struck, but restaurants and bars
registration fee to retake the course. 
were open. The floods, spawned by the heaviest recorded rainfall in the
Contractual obligation with finance charge. 
$295.00 
ATTEND A FREE LESSON: 
September 12  12:30  2:30  4:30  
September-13  12:30  2:30  4:30  
September 14  12:30  2:30  4:30  
September 15  12:30  2:30  4:30  
September 16  12:30  2:30  

All meetings held at: 
city's history, hit hardest at the 
shopping center in the southern 
part of the Mis~uri ci~ an~ at. a 
trailer park and mdustrial dtstrict 
in the east. Water rose to five feet 
and more in streets and buildings. 
Telephone and power outages were reported. 
Some areas escaped virtually
6:30 unharmed. Right across the bor­der, Kansas City, Kan.,had on1y 
6:30 
6:30 
minor problems. 

6:30 
In other sections, however, res­idents scrambled to roof tops, perched on top of cars and clung ~o trees sometimes i:n water almost stx feet deep waiting for firemen and 
others to climb or swim to the

The Center for Continuing Education 
rescue through swift currents. Some people were evacuated f~rrn

room 14 
their homes by boat, clutchmg what possessions they could sal· vage.
Dynamic ~eading ~ysterns Inc. 
The rains started before dawn Monday, saturating the ground.
A company established by a group of former Evelyn Wood Reading Dynamics' Instructors, utilizing tol!llly new ooncepla. 
When another downpour bit Mon­day night, the water ran off into normally placid creeks and low areas, causing the flooding. 


----~-------------------~~--------~-----------­
wednesday, September 14,1977 the observer 7
,~~~=u~~~~~~~--~wo~~~uumL______ 



SMC Coaches (cont'd) 
bably well known as head of not signal "a lacl[ of confidence in 
Campus Ministry but not as well faculty of other disciplines." 
known for her skill out on the links. Prof. Richard LaManna argued 
A native of Minnesota, Sr. Kather­that an ad hoc committee appointed 
ine was once considered to be the for a year "has no time to gain 
next Patty Berg. This year she will experience of the different disci­
be sharing her talents as she plines...They lack a norm for 
coaches St. Mary's golf team. The comparison." 
season will be a challenging one for The Senate decided to follow the 
Sister Katherine and her girls as suggestion of Prof. Thomas Werge 
they are scheduled to participate in and delay furt.her discussion until 
three major tournaments -the Lyon has spoken with acting-
Central Michigan and Indiana provo-st Fr. FerdiJ1and Brown about 
University Invitationals and the the possible fittu1re of the advisory 
Midwest Athletic Intercollegiate group. 
Association of Women tournament which could aualifv one of the 
~------------~~--,
t Welcome Back to School t 




! ROCCO'S ! 
Senate to consult Brown 
[contiDuecl from page 8] 
JUNIOR CLASS 
WHITE SOX BASEBALL TRIP SEPT 18 
CALIF. ANGELS doubleheader tickets . on sale daily in LAFORTUNE LOBBY 
12:00-6:00 
/ 

players for the Nationals. 
Returning to coach the volleyball team for her third season will be Barbara Burlingham, a 1970 socio­logy graduate of St. Mary's. Also returning will be Tom Coye as coach of the women's fencing team. 
Kathy Cordes, St. Mary's Athle­tic Director and tennis coach said, "I'm very proud of the new coaching staff" and "expecting some great seasons from all the sports." 
Lacrosse clinic 
The second week of the lacrosse clinic is well underway and with this added practice, the team is showing signs of gelling. The idea of the clinic, a first for the lacrosse team, came from the club's presi­dent, Rich Mazzei, who wanted to spark interest in the club. The result has been overwhelming as many students have turned out for the clinic. 
The majority of the people who 
join, do not know that much about 
playing the sport, if any at all. 
Learning to throw and catch the 
ball with a modified "butterfly net" 
is quite a challenge. 
Even though the clinic is in its .second week, anyone wishing to 
come out for the team is still 
encouraged to do so. Basic 
maneuvers are now being empha­
sized and sticks are provided. The 
clinics are held at 4:30 p.m. on 
Stepan Field. 
The Notre Dame lacrosse team 
will open their fall season against 
the alumni on October 1 following 
the Michigan State football game. 
[coatiDuecl from page 1] 
for the other five advisors, but' that he believes "we need a University­wide procedure to shake out the individual colleges." The advisors based their recommendations on ''the existing evidence compiled by (the departmental Committee on Appointments and Promotions) and reasonable judgement,'' Tavis said. 
Prof. Paul Kenney said he was "personally delighted to see facul­ty (in the advisory group)" and wondered if the Senate debate did 
NOTICE 
The Notre Dame-St. Mary's Council for the retarded's Organization (at Logan Center) Is Wednesday, Sept. 14, at 7:30 In the library Auditorium. Come and find out what we're all about. Any questions call Jeanne Conboy (284-4391) or Art Koebal (287-7509). 
Morrlaney LD1n Fund student loans $20­$150. One day Wilt. 1 percent lntenat. Due In 30 days. Llfortune basement. M-F, 11:15-12:15. 
Bus service to Chicago-every Friday this semester. Buses arrive at the circle at 
5:05. For tickets and Info call Sher 8330. 
SEWING REPAIRS. REASONABLE. CALL8051. 
Typing. Reasonable rates. Call 8051. 
Any desiring photoa at Und1 Rondstldt liken In concert Monday, Aug. 29 [color or black-white] ple11e contact John 1t 8340 or 136 Zahm. 
The dancln' Irish present "The Day of the Locust'' starring Karen Black and Donald Sutherland at the Eng. Aud. Wed. and Thurs. at 7:00, 9:15 and 11:30. Admis­sion, $1:00. 
GAY COMMUNITY OF NO GUIDE TO NO AN S.B. $1:00 PANDORA OR BOX 
206 NO. 
Gay community of N0 lnfollne 8870 Fri. and Sat., 10-12 p.m. 
NEED RIDE TO BLOOMINGTON IN. [IUhTHIS WEEKEND OR ANY WEEK~ EN . CALL VICKI 6751. 
FOR RENT 

4 GA Purdue tlxs. Call 232-5926. In LOST AND FOUND evenings 288-6115. 
Lost '76 class ring Brother Rice High NEEDED DESPERATELY: TWO GA School, Chicago-Initials RJR. Call Bob TICKETS FOR MICHIGAN STATE. 8707. A modest reward Is offered CALL TOM* 287-3987. GOOD BUCKSI 
Lost: Sliver Cross pen with Initials PAJ Part time waitress must be 21. Apply In 
ne1r bookston. C1ll 8798. person to Pinocchio's Piua Parlor. Georgetown shopping center. Only 4 minutes away. Ask for Jackie. 
Kitchen help-Part time, hourly wage. Apply In penon. Plnocchlos Plm Parlor. Georgetown shopping center. Only tour minutes away. Ask tor Jackie. 
Wanted: Six GA Ucketa to USC. Clll Jeanne at 4-4001. 
Wanted; 4 tlx to Michigan zstate. Call Mary Pat at 288-8235. 

FOUND: LADIES WATCH AT ROCK NE. CALL 1313. 
Found: on sidewalk 1976 Holy Cross Preparatory class ring. Call Denise 4-5402. 
LOST: WALLET WITH 10 SATURDAY NIGHT BETWEEN ENGINEERING AUDITORIUM AND GRACE HALL. USELESS TO ANYONE ELSE. CALL TO 6713. REWARD. 
LOST DOG: Shepard husky, geld, black 1nd white-Lincoln way, Portage aru. Very special. C1ll Becky 232-6362. 
Lost: 3keys 1t South Quad picnic Fna1y. Reward. Call 7957. 
Lost: Pair of brown glasses In South Dining Hall on 9-8-'77. Call Klnny at 232-9140. 
WANTED 
Need four Gen. Ad. tickets for USC preferably together. Call Rick 8688. 
WANTED: A BW TV AND A BICYCLE IN GOOD CONDITION: CALL288-3073. 
NEDD 10-20 GA TICKETS TO ANY HOME GAME. WILLING TO PAY ANY 
$$$. CALL 1212 OR 1197. ASK FOR 
BOB. 
Need 4 G.A. tickets to Mich. 'State, Oct 
1. Call Meg-4·4046. Will pay $. 
FILTHY RICH AUNT FROM CALIFOR NIA REQUIRES FOUR G.A. TIX FOR USC. MONEY NO OBJECTI CALL TIM AT 1605 
I need two tlx to Mich. State. Call Russ at 8772. 


Clas;sified 
)~ds 
Desperately n1aed 1 student ticket to Michigan State. Please call 4·4894. 
BIG MONEY FOI~ FOUR GA TIX TO MICHIGAN STATE. CALL JACOB 8720. 
Will trade two Georgia Tech or two Southern Call. All GA. Pauls-6354. 
HELP WANTED. RESIDENT STUDENT CASlER AND USHER MUST BE ABLE TO WORK NIGiHTS* WEEKENDS, AND HOLIDAYS. HIOURLY WAGE. APPLY IN PERSON TO MARIO RANDAZZO, FORUM CINEMA, 52709, U.S. 31 NORTH 
J.ulio's needs delivery personal. Part t1me or full tlmEI. Giaurantee $3.00 per hr. Call 233-2354. 
WANTED: THIIEI: PURDUE· ND TIC KETS. PLEASE C:ALL4101 OR 5431. 
I WANT TO TRADE FOUR PURDUE· 
1
NO  FOOTBALL  TIX  FOR  FOUR·  
NO  ·MICHIG~.N STATE  TIX.  CALL  
277-3604.  

--------·-----­
lA GA Football tickets. N 0 -So. Cal. Together or 2 and 2. Call 288·1884. 
PLEASE: I NEED FOUR MICHIGAN TICKETS. CALL AliCIA 8117. 
DDesperately need tickets to Michigan State and Southam Cal. Please call Marianne at 12152. 
Wanted: 4 GA tickets for Southern Cal. Will pay good bucks. Call 1423, ask for Mike. 
WANTED: MICHIGAN STATE TIC KETS-GENERAL ADMISSION PRE FERABLY. WILL PAY$. CALL 4-4801 AND ASK FOR JEANNE OR MO. 
-------------·------­
Need G A and stud,~nt football tlx to any home game. Call 11051.




,_______ 
DESPERATELY NEED FOUR GEORGIA TECH TICKETS. GALL BILL 8792. 
Wanted: 5USC 'tickets. C1ll PIUIIt 1424. 
Desperately need 1 ticket to Michigan or So. Cal. -call Davtl 3542. 
Desperately need GA tickets to Michigan State and Southern Cal. Will pay good $. Call Paul1470. 
LOST: Selko watch somewhere between Senior Bar ami Fischer Hall. Reward. Call 283-1928. 
WANTED: TWO TICKETS TO MICH' IGAN STATE GAME, EITHER OA OR STUDENT TICKET. CALL MARK 1436. 
W1nted: Ticket to Mich. g1m1. Will pay $$. C1ll Mike 289-8036. 
WANTED: ANYONE GOING NEAR BLACKSBURG,VA. DESPERATELY NEED RIDE ANY WEEKEND. WILL PAY $$$. CALL KATHY 4-4217. 
Need ride to Purdue and USC games. Call John 1196. 
·---------------­

Will pay extra for 4 good GA tlx to Michigan State-joan 1280. 
WANTED: 1 OR 2 GA NAVY TICKETS. CALL DAVID 8697. 
Urgentl Need any number If Mlcblg1n Stlte tlx. Also neld tlx to any 111m1 game. Call Donn• or Suo: 255-1147. 
WANTED: 2 TO 4 USC TICKETS. STUDENT OR GA. VI LL PAY MONEY$ suzy 5148. 
Wanted: One senior ticket for the season. Call 288_
8235. 

NEEDED: ONE SMALL REFRIG· 
ERATOR EITHER TO RENT OR BUY. 
WILL PAY GOOD MONEYI CALL 
3

4-456 . 
Conduct historical research for Discovery Hall Museum, Century Center. Prefer graduate student in history, American Studies or related field. Some prior 
research-museum experience desire­able. 20 hours per week for six to seven months; $3.70 -hour. Send resume by September 20, 1977 to: Personnel, Attn: Discovery Hall, 1200 County-City Build· ing, South Bend, Indiana, 46601. 
2 N D students need roomate to share house. 233-8855 or 283-3228. 
URGENTLY NEED A RIDE FROM CLEVELAND-COLUMBUS· TOLEDO VICINITY TO NO SEPT. 18. CALL DIANE 7883. 
Need six Southern Cal. tlx. Mark 287-7051. 
·---------­

HATE YOUR ROOMATE? MOVE IN WITH US. NEAR WEST SIDE. $50-75 PER MONTH, UTILITIES INCLUDED. 288-9614. 
NEED FOUR MICHIGAN STATE TIC­KETS. CALL CLAIRE 289-6533 BE. TWEEN 4 and 7. 
Desperately need 2 Mlchigan State tickets. Preferably GA. Will pay top$. Call 8515, ask for Mark. 
PLEASE$ HELP A SENIOR IMPRESS HIS FRIENDS FROM HOME. I NEED FOUR MICHIGAN STATE TICKETS AND WILL PAY MUCHO. CALL GEOFF AT 1083 ANYTIME AND KEEP :rAY-
ING. • I 
FOR SALE 

Slnaul 7 I'ICIIVIr. Gr11t ah1p1. $225 [?) 289-18291fter 7. 
BOGEN AMPLIFIER-GOOD FOR ROCK GROUP, ETC. GARY 284-4247 DAYS. 
Pandora's Books, 937 South Bend Ave, has the just published paperback version of Kurt Vonnegut's Slapstick for 20 percent off. Also on sale are other best sellers. And newly In stock Is Tolkein's Slmlrllllon. 
For sale: Panasonlc 8 track recorder. Excellent condition. $100 or best offer. Call Brian 8760. 
Cornlngwan ellctrlc paRulaton [coffll poll) 58 peRent off. C1ll 8985. 
FOR SALE: GUITAR-OVATION ACOUSTIC WITH CASE, BARCUS BERRY PICKUP,LEATHER STRAP. BEST OFFER. WILL SACRIFICE. JOHN 7&17. 
Used golf balls like new-$20 per 100. Call 272-Q783 for more Info. 
73 Vega, 2door, Inspected. Black and white. Call 234-5686 for more informa­tion. 
SL-1500 Technics Direct drive turntable with Cartrlge. 8 months old. Mick 2743. 
PERSONALS 

ADIDAS "ON CAMPUS" GRAND OPENING: SALE. SHOES, CLOTHES, ACCESS. ALSO: FRANK SHORTER GEAR. MON-FRI: 7-9. CALL: 3078, 425 FISCHER. 
Shirley Temple. 
I am holding your dogbook for ransom. If you wish to see It again, meet me tonight, 2nd floor of the library. 
. St. Louis. 

Jerome: 
Cong111ts on ottenalvo 1w1nl for 1 Dl'llt porformanct on Saturday. You hid some very nice movesll 
5th Regina North 

I REALLY, REALLY NEED A RIDE BACK TO ND FROM CLEVELAND • COLUMBUS· TOLEDO VICINITY ON 
To Whom It May Concern, 
Return the hat you stole from the· south . Dining Hall. No questions asked. 'contatt 232-1182. 
I NEED A RIDE TO BLOOMINGTON IND. THIS WEEKEND OR ANY WEEK· 
END. CALL VICKI m1 . 
CSPTT 
~----------~-­

Dorsett and Cowboys set to run for NFC crown 
The National Football League opens its 1977 season this Sunday afternoon with all 28 of its teams dreaming of a possible berth in Super Bowl XII. For some teams, these dreams are mere fantasy; other squads, however, may be just a player or two away. Here's one_ look at the National Football Con­ference teams: 
NFCEAST Dallas Cowboys -Everyone knows the Cowboys have Tony Dorsett, but they also have a lot more. Last Thursday they trounced the Steel­crs by a 30-0 count in exhibition play. Steeler quarterbacks were sacked 8 times. The defense is ,·oung and ferocious and the of­fense. with Dorsett, is sound. The Cowboys should battle for the NFC ,-rown. St. Louis Cardinals -This Cardinal team is not all that different from their past teams. The Big Red nffense is the best in the NFC, but ·he defense is again porous. Terry \1etcalf. Mel Gray, Ike Harris, Jim Otis and Jim Hart should put many points on the board for the Cards. On defense, the linebacking is poor and Norm Thompson no longer patrols the left corner. Overall. the Cards should be carried to another winning season by their offense but their defense may again keep them from the playoffs. Washington Redskins -George Allen· s over-the-hill gang seems to have leveled off in the past few seasons. Though Allen recently hrought in Mike Curtis, his defense will be hurt by the loss of linebacker Chris Hanburger. He had his appendix removed and will be lost for the early portion of the year. The offense is again in the hands of Billy Kilmer, who will be 
aided by running back Mike Tho­mas and wide receiver Frank Grant. Allen's special teams should be worth a few wins and this team should finish a notch or two above .500. Philadelphia Eagles -The Eagles have traded away so many of their top draft choices in the past few 
Sports
NEWS 
Swimmers set 

to meet 
Any students interested in the varsity swimming team are urged to attend an organizational meeting on Thursday, September 15th in the foyer of the Rockne Building (2nd floor). Freshmen are to report at 4 p.m., while all upperclassmen should arrive at 5 p.m. 

Wrestlers too 
There will be a meeting for all those interested in participating on the varsity wrestling team on Wednesday, September 14 at 4:30 
p.m. in the ACC Auditorium. Those who cannot attend the meeting but are interested in the program should call Coach Sepeta at 7421, Mike at 1598 or Pat at 8721. 

Weightlifting anyone? 
There will be an organizational meeting of the Weightlifting Oub this Wednesday, September 14, at 4 p.m. in the weightlifting room o the ACC. All interested students are asked to attend. 
Weightlifting at Notre Dame has become a university funded club sport, in which qualified lifters will be competing against other schools. Categories of competition include the bench press, deadlift, squat lift and a total weight category. Interested lifters can choose to compete in any one category or in any combination. 
yeats that there is little young 
talent on their roster. Ron Jawor­
ski is a fine addition to the offense, 
but Charley Young is an even 
greater loss. Bill Bergey is still the 
best in the NFL in the middle, but 
there are no solid linemen in front 
of him. Dick Vermeil's coaching 
should mean a few victories but the 
Eagles still have much rebuilding 
to do. 
New York Giants -The biggest 
question with the Giants is at the 
quarterback position. Jerry Gol­
steyn seems to have won the job, 
but even he is an unproven 
quantity. Larry Csoka's knee is not 
yet 100 percent and the offensive 
line is mediocre. The Giant 
defense. on the other hand, ranks 
a:nong the best in the NFC. If they 
aren't on the field all game, they 
can do the job. The Giants will be 
hard pressed to win games because 
they can't .score with any regular­
ity. 
NFCCENTRAL 
Minnesota Vikings -The Vikings 
are now ready to take the "Can't 
win the big one" monicker from the 
Raiders. Though the Vikes have 
won the Central Division title in 
eight of the past nine seasons, they 
have yet to win the Super Bowl. 
The offense still has the firepower 
with Fran Tarkenton, Chuck Fore­
man and Sammy White. The 
defense was embarrassed by Oak­
land in last year's Super Bowl, and 
it could be beaten often this 
season. The Vikes will win their 
division but will be stopped in the 
playoffs. 
Chicago Bears -The Bears had a fine season in 1976 and they should continue to improve. They have fine personnel at all but two 
positions, quarterback and middle linebacker. Good output from the players who man these positions will help the Bears to make the playoffs. With the loss of Lionel Antoine and Wally Chamber's uncertain status, several untested players must perform well for the Bears to make a serious title run. Detroit Lions -The Lions have been an average football team for the past five seasons, this year they may be ready to break that mold. Dexter Bussey, Horace King, Law­erence Gaines and recently acquir­ed Marv Hubbard give the Lions a stable of fine running backs. If the line holds up this quartet should garner a lot of yardage. Greg Landry is an effective quarterback. The defense is good though the secondary may be vulnerable. The Lions should fight with the Bears 
and the Cards for the wild  card  
playoff berth.  
Green  Bay  Packers  • Bart  Starr  

enters his third year with the Packers but the situation in Green Bay has improved little since he has taken over the coaching reins. Lynn Dickey is a good QB and Willard Harrel and Ken Payne are exciting offensive performers, but they can't do it all by themselves. Top draft choices Mike Butler and Ezra Johnson should improve the defense but much work still needs 

*Observer 






Sports 
SMC Coaching Changes 
by Laurie Reising Women's Sports Editor 
Along with the new Angela Athletic Facility, St. Mary's has many new coaches this year. 
Field Hockey, now a varsity sport, will be headed by Karen Grummell. Grummell, a graduate of Purdue University and who holds a masters degree from Indiana University, has been coaching and teaching physical education for seven years. Currently, she is assistant tennis pro at local La Fayette South tennis club. Grum­mell will have her work cut out for her this season as the team runs up against some stiff competition in the form of Marion, Valparaiso, Goshen and Notre Dame. 
Monica Brown, a second year law student at Notre Dame, will be directing the gymnastics squad. Brown is not entirely new to the St. Mary's campus for she helped in gymnastics classes last year. A native of Belleview, Washington, she is a graduate of Seattle University where she founded the women's gymnastics team. 
Another club sport that will be making its debut on the varsity level is softball. And there to make sure it starts out with a winning season will be new St. Mary's coach, Carolyn Willig. Willig, ~.ho 
will also be directing the basketball team, holds a degree in physical education and journalism from Purdue University where she parti­cipated in basketball. She also earned a masters in physical educa­tion from Ball State while serving as the university's women's sports information director. Last year she taught at Penn High School in Mishawauka. 

The athletic program at St. Mary's has grown tremendously over the years to nine varsity sports, necessitating the need for some assistance in the athletic director's office. Filling this posi­tion will be Jane Lammers, a recent graduate of Notre Dame. Jane will long be remembered at Notre Dame, for along with Betsy Fallon, she founded the women's tennis team. Her job as assistant director will be only part time, the other half is spent working for Campus Ministry and as coach of St. Mary's swimming team, for not only is Jane a gifted tennis player but an excellent swimmer as well. She hs been swimming competitively for 10 years out of Dayton Country Club where she was also captain of its team and voted most valuable swimmer, 1970-71. 
Sister Katherine Reichert is pro­
[cootinued on page 7] to be done. The Pack is still not back. Tampa Bay Buccaneers · The Bucs have yet to win their first NFL regular season game, but they should get that this year. John McKay's home for USC alumni is growing as he now has Anthony Davis and Ricky Bell in the fold. These two should generate the running game that the Bucs never had last year. Defensively, the Selmon brothers are the only true standouts. It should be another long season for the Buccaneers. 

NFCWEST Los Angeles Rams -Most people feel this is the season for the Rams, after all Joe Namath is now making his residence in sunny California. The Rams again have a fine team, but Namath may not be the savior they have been looking for. Larry Brooks, Jack Youngblood and Monte Jackson head a superb defensive unit. On offense all the tools are there but behind the 
:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 
Monte Towle 


Cage Chatter 
:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::======:::==:=====::::::======================:::::::::::::::::::::::::::Towle's 
Rags 
There is an interesting show 

developing within the National 
Basketball Association. It stars 
Larrybrien, Jamaal Wilkes and the 
Los Angeles Lakers. The plot 
centers around the signing of 
Jamaal Wilkes by the Lakers. The 
former UCLA star forward played 
out his option with the Golden State 
Warriors last season, hoping to be 
picked up specifically by Jack Kent 
Cooke's west coast enterprise. 
There is a problem, though. 

According to compensation rules, 
the Lakers must compensate the 
Warriors for Wilkes' departure and 
that could be tough. Golden State 
wants nothing less than Kareem 
Abdul-Jabbar and is unwilling to 
accept a multi-player transaction. 
It is up to Commissioner O'Brien 

to settle the situation and decide 
who or what goes where. From this 
point of view, it seems likely that 
the Warriors will have to settle for 
someone in the category of recently 
signed Ernie Digregorio or Cazzie 
Russell. The Warriors have to be 
dreaming if they think that the loss 
of Wilkes is worth a Jabbar in 
return. In this sense, Commission­er O'Brien does not have as tough a decision to make as first perceived. 
Last week, the Jerry Tarkanian 

situation was briefly touched upon. 
Since that time, the NCAA in­
formed the University of Nevada­
Las Vegas of its recommendation to 
suspend Tarkanian from his bas­
ketball coaching duties. 
But a local judge in Las Vegas 

issued a temporary restraining 
order prohibiting such action. And 
furthermore, Tarkanian has filed 
suit against the University claiming 
that his 14th amendment rights 
were violated by the University, its 
president, Dr. Donald Baetler and 
the University's Board of Regents. 
by Tony Pace 
center. If Namath or Haden can do the job, the Rams will be unbeat­able. If they are adequate, the Rams will win their division but fail to reach the Super Bowl. San Francisco 49ers -Joe Thomas moves out to the Bay area to see if he can work his magic and build another championship caliber team. Monte Clark is gone after a fine opening season, but Ken Meyer has solid coaching creden­tials. Jim Plunkett leads the offense, hopefully he will snap out of the passing slump that plagued him during the 1976 campaign. The defensive line stands out with messers. Hardman, Hart, Elam, and Webb harrassing enemy quar­terbacks. If the passing game is good, the 49ers will surprise. New Orleans Saints -Hank Stram enters his second season in the Superdome with a team that is slowly beginning to resemble his old Chiefs. Stram has always liked big linemen and he is doing his best to beef up the Saints' lines. Top draft choices Joe Campbell (6-6,250) and Mike Fultz (6-5, 278) make Stram's defensive line large indeed. Their presence will give the defense a big lift. Archie Manning is fully recovered from his injury problems and is ready to put the Saints offensive into high gear. The Saints are improved and are ready to spring more than their share of upsets this season. Atlanta Falcons -Leeman Bennett is the new Falcon coach and he 

certainly has a long road to travel before the Falcons can be consider­ed contenders. Steve Bartkowski is lost with a knee injury and the rest of the offense is poor. Claude Humphrey is still at defensive end, but his old friend, Tommy Nobis has hung up his cleats. There will be many new faces in Atlanta this year but few of them will be in the stadium seats. 
Wild Card: Bears 
NFC Champs: Cowboys 

Tarkanian maintains that he is a 
tenured professional employee of 
the university and should hold a 
continuing appointment there as 
head basketball coach and profes­
sor of physical education 
Actually, the NCAA had told Nevada-Las Vegas to suspend Tar­kanian or else face a reprimand more severe than the two years of probation already tacked on. This latter option mentioned by the NCAA indicates a misuse of its won powers in trying to nail one man. Jerry Tarkanian deserved to be caught by the NCAA for recruiting violations but the NCAA must now justify its actions and strive for consistency across the board when­ever similar occurences arise. In other words, all college coaches found guilty of recruiting violations should be dealt with as harshly. 
It wasn't too surprising when Univesity of San Francisco Basket­ball Coach Bob Gaillard announced his resignation effective at the end of the upcoming season. It was a known fact that he had problems controlling his players, especially free-spirited James Hardy. Gaillard cited time away from his 
family as his reasons for stepping down but footnoted that with the notion that the Dons had now built their basketball program into a great one but he was losing his motivation to sustain the basketball program at its current level. 
He also admitted that when hired as an assistant 10 years ago, he didn't want the job in the first place. Now's a fine time for him to admit that. It's probably more a 
case of sour grapes following the consecutive losses at the end of last season to Notre Dame and Nevada­Las Vegas. 
·~ __._.'.' •• t 




