-~-­
Davenport encourages U.S. subsidy of Olympic trainees 

by Patrick Cole 
Senior Staff Reporter 
Urging the U.S. to support a better development program for future Olympians, four-time Olympic hurdler Willie Davenport spoke to a group of students last night in Washington Hall. 
Davenport, addressing the aud­ience in an earnest mood, told that the U.S.'s track and field talent may be lagging behind other countries. 
"If America does not change her philosophy in track and field, we will be embarrassed at the 1980 Olympic Games in Moscow," Dav­enport warned. "We will have to come up with a development program.'' 
Davenport said in the 1976 Olympics, the U.S. won one more medal than it ever did including 15 individual medals, and the Rus­sians won eight individual medals. However, he criticized the de-em­phasis on the women's track pro­gram. 
"It's ridiculous how women get beat," he said. "East Germany is 



The Observer 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's Thursday, February 17, 1977Vol. XI, No. 82 
really doing something with its 
program. We're going to have to 
come up with a better development 
program," he repeated. 
Davenport mentioned that the 
Russians are"computerizing" their 
athletes to perlorm on a superior 
level. He revealed that he was 
using the same method which 
involved feeding information into a 
computer bank concerning what 
kind of physical qualities it takes to ·achieve a certain standard. 
Criticizes USOC 
Davenport suggested that the 
United States Olympic Committee -(USOC) has some shortcomings, limiting its ability to assist Amer­ican Olympians. As part of his development proposal, Davenport stressed the need for "subsidizing athletes te prepare them for the 
Olympics." 
"The United States Olympic Com­
mittee gave $13.1 million to athle­
tes for the last Olympics," Daven­
port told. "For 744 athletes, that 
comes out to about $4,000 per 
athlete. What can you do with $4,000. There's nothing you can do.'' 
Davenport is the executive direc­tor of the Mayor's-President Coun­cil on Youth Opportunity in East Baton Rouge, La. The organization, according to Davenport, is using political power from the senate to get young people involved in sports. He also encouraged women to become involved in sports, saying that some women "are not physically fit to have a child" because of the conveniences of modern society. 
Telling the need for more ex­posure of young people--particu­larly blacks--to Olympic sports, Davenport told the audience, "There's no blacks on the Winter Olympic team.'' 
Black protests 

Davenport discussed the protests of black athletes in the 1968 and 1972 Olympic Games. Referring to the praise given by foreigners, he said that th~ protests of 1968 
[continued on page 6] 

Carter possible speaker at dinner for Hesburgh
by Katie Kerwin Provost Father James T. Burt-Senior Staff Reporter chaell, Executive vice-president Father Edmund P. Joyce and President Jimmy Carter's off­
James W. Frick, vice-president of hand remark last Saturday that he 
Public Relations and Development. might speak at a dinner later this 
Hesburgh stated that he had year marking Father Theodore M. 
received no official word from Hesburgh's 25th anniversary as 
Carter concerning the dinner. He President of Notre Dame seems to · 
said that Carter's remark was in have taken University officials by response to a suggestion from surprise. 
someone, but declined to speculate United Press International White on who might have made the House reporter Helen Thomas suggestion. reported that Carter, while strol­
Burtchaell indicated that Car· ling through the streets of Plains, 
ter's remark Saturday had been 'Ga., met couple from South Bend, 
unexpected, but noted the approp­
according to an article in Sunday's riateness of such a Presidential South Bend Tribune. Thomas visit, should Carter decide to come. 
He pointed out Hesburgh's prom­reported that Carter praised Res­inence as senior university presi­burgh and then mentioned the

Federal health insurance program 
dent in the country and Notrepossibility of speaking at the Dame's significance as the premier 
dinner. A committee at Notre Dame U.S. Catholic university. 
ahead of projected schedule 
Conklin, Burtchaell and Res­

began planning of the anniversary WASHINGTON [AP] · President suggested last month in a report doctor and hospital costs stemming celebrations only last Friday and burgh all said that no official response or invitation would be
Carter said yesterday he will be from the congressonal budget of­from a serious illness that can were unprepared-_for Carter's immediately forthcoming as a re­
ready to propose the first step fice which said so-called "catastro­financially break a family with ·comment, according to Richard toward a national health insurance phic coverage" could be extended limited means. Conklin, director of Information sult of the President's remark and program "before the end of this . to families with incomes under Carter said that cost controls will Services. Conklin declared that it that no final plans have been made year." $10,000 "who are either uninsured, have to be a key part of any health "was a surprise to us, because our for any of the events under 
The President's remark to em­not eligible for Medicaid or hold insurance plan, as will enforcement plans haven't really gotten off the consideration. Conklin added that against fraud and abuse. He added the dinner, although a possibility,
ployees of the Department of inadequate insurance.'' ground yet." 
Health, Education and Welfare Catastrophic insurance would there are "unwarranted costs of The planning committee for the is not definite and no date has been (HEW) appeared to move up the provide protection against high [continued _on page 3] celebration includes University designated for it. Carter administration's timetable 
for fulfilling Carter's campaign promise to work for a federal health Effective in May insurance plan for all Americans. 
In a related development, HEW is proposing that a new govern­
Wernig to leave dissolved SMC post
ment agency be set up with authority to limit rising health care by Marti Hogan rejected the idea because she to build a sports program. "I think back to school or find another job,"costs. 
St. Mary's Editor thought each position needs a we've done some good things.'' she said. "I really enjoy this kindCarter's statement yesterday on 
full-time director. According to Rice, W ernig is not of work, so if there's a job opening the timing of his health insurance 
Assistant Dean of Student Af­The assistant dean's duties this utilizing her talent to its full e~ent. at another school I like, I'll look into proposals comes against the back· 
fairs Stevie Wernig will be leaving year consisted mainly of student "I could offer her the position of it."
ground of previous statements by Saint Mary's at the end of this activities and sports. Wernig director of student activities, but it She noted that most schools sheadministration officials cautioning school year, Kathleen Rice, dean of admitted that sports had existed at would be a step down," she said. has worked at have had assistantagainst any expectations that Car­student affairs, has announced. St. Mary's, but she "got more • "If there was a lateral movement, deans. "If Dean Rice thinks thister would emphasize his health Wernig's position has been deleted interest going in them. I'd offer her the position, but there · organiz'ltional plan will work, then program early in his administra­
from the Student Affairs depart­"Basketball was here, but it isn't." she has the authority to try it," shetion. 
ment and will be replaced by the really wasn't college-sponsored," Wernig who has been assistant said. "It'll be interesting to see Instead, they have said such a positions of director of student she, adding that in anticipation of dean since 1974 has no definite what happens."
plan would have to await a sturdy activities and athletic director. the new athletic center, she wanted plans for the future. "I'll either go Rice emphasized that she was economic recovery to generate 

"I don't need an intermediary," under no pressure to delete the needed revenues. 
Rice explained, adding that "with­position. "I just decided this is the At a news conference Jan. 26, out a maze of people under me best thing to do," she said. 
HEW Secretary, Joseph A. Cali­

things can get done quicker. I A job description for the positionfano Jr. said, "I do not see how we 
don't want someone in between me of director of student activities has 
can submit a well thought-through 

and somebody else." not been drawn up yet. "We're in national health insurance proposal 
According to Rice, her decision the middle of searching for an to the Congress until next year." 
was based on logic and budgetary athletic director and will start 
Carter, speaking to about 500 reasoning. She believes Student looking for a director of student employees selected from the Affairs doesn't need a bureaucratic activities sometime in March," 140,000 employees in HEW, said structure in a college as small as St. Rice stated. yesterday that his administration Mary's Rice speculated, however, that will seek to put into effect a She addea that budget-wise, the the search will begin in the St. "year-by-year progression toward department needs the money for a Mary's community. "If we find a national health insurance person whose sole responsibility is someone here that seems like a real system." student activities. The budget will good candidate-with an interest in 
Any progression could mean also include money for hall clerks to and knowledge of student develop­expansion of the two existing "free up" the hall directors to ment, affirm~tive action-wise, programs, federally run Medicare become a more professional and that's as far as we have to go." for the elderly and federally sup-1 integral part of Student Affairs. She added that the search com­ported but state-administered Rice had considered combining mittee will consist of faculty, Medicaid for the poor. the jobs of director of student administration and "a lot of stu­
One possible starting point was activities and athletic director but dents." 



,....-----------------------~-~---­
the observer Thursday, February 17, 1977 


,._--News Briefs--­
t==================lntemational Kids get lesson in robbery 
VIENNA-About 60 Viennes third-graders went to a bank here yesterday to learn about savings, but got an unexpected lesson in bank robbery instead. 
"Have they stolen our money now?" teachers said the children asked after watching two masked bandits with submachine guns make off $26,000 . 

I============Local 
ND gets $500,000 in grants 
SOUTH BEND-More than $552,000 in grants to support faculty research proJects and educational programs were received in January by Notre Dame, school officials said yesterev. 

._._-On Campus Toda~'--' 
1:15pm sophomore literary festival workshop, library lounge 
1:15pm nursing career day, informati<;>n and interviews havican hall, smc. 
2:30pm sophomore literary festival tape by laura riding jackson library auditorium , 
3:30pm cap workshop with ken kesey and william burroughs sponsored by sophomore literary festival, grace penthouse. 
3:30pm sophomore literary festival, steve katz reading from "mongolian whiskey," library auditorium. 
3:30pm computer course, "ibm job control language," room 115 computer center/math bldg. 
4:30pm forum, clinical assessments of the elderly and their environments," by dr. m. powell lawton, director of behavioral research, philadelphia geriatric center, sponsored by mental health outreach program for the elderly, room 117 haggar hall. 
7:30pm lecture, "indiana photography," by anne peeler, nd senior, sponsored by art department, nd art gallery. 
8pm lecture, "how to say no to a rapist and survive," by fretll storaska, author, sponsored by student government, 
carroll hall, smc.  
8pm  ice capades, tickets $6, $5, $3.50, ace.  
8pm  faculty· voice theatre.  recital,  by  susan  stevens,  
8pm  sophomore literary library auditorium.  festival,  williams  


8pm mardi gras, blue grass music, stepan center. ~ pm-11 pm. nazz, dave shaheen, nazz. 


Workshop evaluates how political process operates 
Working for social justice through legislation will be the theme of a skills workshop spon­sored by CILA and the ND-SMC World Hunger Coalition, to be held Friday and Saturday. 
The workshop is being conducted by Network, a Catholic lobbying organization. 
''The workshop will aim to provide insight into how the politi­cal process works and how it can be affected by those concerned for social and political change," said Mark Hommes, co-officer of educa­tion for CILA. 
The key issues that will be dealt with are food planning and pro­grams, unemployment and military spending and issues which affect the powerless, poor, '-hungry, im­prisoned and jobless. 
The first session will be held 
Friday night from 7:30 p.m. to 10 
p.m. in the Hayes-Healy auditor­ium. The key issues will_ be presented followed by a discussion concerning why students and fa­culty should become involved in the political process. 
On Saturdav, there will be two sessio-n deali~g withn practical lobbving skills. 
The morning session, from 9 
a.m. to 12 p.m., will include discussion of the legislative process and how it can be influenced bv those interested in achieving social justice. It will also look at the shift m President Jimmy Carter's na­tional budget concerning the key issues. 
That afternoon, from 1:30 to 4 p.m., the session will center around how to analyze the key issues and ways to work in local 
and national groups to lobby for 
change. 
Both sessions will be held in the 
Hayes-Healy building. All sessions 
are open to any interested persons. 
Network aims not at service but at systems change, Hommes stated. "They see the need for a contemporary approach to social injustices, one that does not deny that problems must be recognized and dealt with, but also questions why these problems exist," he explained. 
By pressuring Congress to create jobs, to provide food, prisoners' rights and military cutbacks, Net­work asks Capitol Hill why there exists social injustices, Hommes added. 

,....rlltl.,_.,..._-"-...~a,....~'II--IIIIIIA..,...,ol\llt,.,...~ft,.-..,.1\11-.,. A Trend Continues At The 


senior bar 
Happy Hour 3-6pm DRINK SPECIALS 
Vodka & Tonic Gin & Tonic Seven & Seven 


PIZZA SPECIAL TOO!! Cheese Pizza $1.50 
Also Fr\day Night: Dirt Night 
Appropriate Drinks Special All Night 

smc little burroughs, 

----"--------------­


Psychopath's motives for killing based upon racial prejudice 
ATLANTA [AP]-J.B. Sroner has been waging a battle against blacks and Jews all his life. Now, at 52, he is chairman of the National States Rights Party, which he calls the world's greatest hope for white supremacy. 
In an interview yesterday, Stoner emphasized racism, and left no doubt that he and the States Rights party are for whites and whites 
1 .alone. 
Frederick Cowan, 33-year-old gun enthusiast and Nazi sympathi­zer who killed five persons--inclu­ding three blacks and one East Indian--and himself during a ten­hour siege in New Rochell, N.Y., on Monday, was identified by a city official as a member of the States Rights party. 
Among the racist literature po­lice said they found in Cowan's room afterward was a book they said he had inscribed: "Nothin~ is 
lower than blacks aJ!d Jews, except 
Center assists pre-school kids 
The Early Childhood Develop­ment Center, located in Havican Hall on the St. Mary's campus, provides the ND-SMC community with full-and part-time develop­mental programs for children three to six years of age during the academic year. 
A recreational-developmental program designed for children aged three to nine was introduced 
.last .summer. 
The center is currently assessing the ND-SMC community to deter­mine the interest in and need for a program this summer. All inter­ested in such a program, and who would like to receive more infor­mation, should contact Terri Kosik, director, at 284-4150. _ 

(*The Observerl 
'TODA Y'S THEME: FLORIDA Night Editor: Bob Sunshine Brink Asst. Night Editors: Bill beach ball Rivard, Leigh luau Tun­akan layout Staff: Cecelia Where the Boys Are Mitchell, Karen Beach Blanket Bingo Konar­ski; Annette Funicello, Fran­kie Avalon , Barry Tillis Features layout: Gregg beach baby Bangs (Returns!) , Sports layout: Ray surfo Brien Typists: Susan Shellenbarger, Anne Giere, Kathy Egbert,. Mel Celeste God: Morey big daddy Blinder Day Editor: Marian Ulicny Copy Reader~ Drew scriver Bal}er, Barb Lobster Lang-
1~enry
~d layout: Pat Urchin Russell). 
The Obo;erver is publ1sht>d Monday through f mlay and weekly dunng the summer SPssion, except dunng the exam and varat1on penods The Observer is publisht>d by students oi the University of Notre Dame and St Mary's College Subscnpt1ons may be purchased for $20 per year ($10 per semestf'r) from ThP ObsPr· ver, Box Q. NotrE' Dame. lnd1ana 46556 St>cond class postagP paid, NotrE' DamE'. Indiana 46556 
The Observer 1s a member oi the Assonatf'd Press All rt>product•on nghts are rE'SNVf'rl 
the police who protect them." 
Stoner-would not comment on 
Cowan's membership in the party, 
saying it is the party's policy not to 
identify its members. "They can 
identify themselves· if they want 
to,'' he said. 
"What happened up there in 
New Rochelle is unfortunate," he 
said. "We don't advocate violence 
at all except in self-defense. We 
believe in self-preservation . 
"Actually, I think the white races 
that live in New York should move 
down South and let us ship all our 
ni>ggers up there until such time as 
we can ship them to Africa;"~ 
He said the group is "very much 
alive. We're holding meetings 
everywhere, distributing literature 
and picking up members." 
Speculation is that the organiza­
tion has about 1,000 members, but 
Stoner declined comment. 
A major organ of the party is its 
monthly tabloid--Thunderbolt-­
which is operated as a nonprofit . corporation under Georgia law. 
Cowan was reportedly a subscriber of Thunderbolt. 
In New York, the Anti-Defama­tion League of B'nai B'rith said the publication has a paid subscription list of 15,000. 
Thunderbolt and the party "ad­vocate white racism, because we want to send the niggers back to Africa from which they came," Stoner said. 
Stoner, an attorney in nearby Marietta, Ga., grew up in rural Walker County, Ga. "I didn't know any nigger-lovers at all when 
Your Source for the Unusual in Diamonds and Precious Gems Platinum and Gold Jewelry 
You'll find untold treasures of the. finest quality brought to you by the eye of an expert.* And sold with the care of a professional.* 



Insurance appraisals and purchases of fine diamonds and· estate jewelry provided. 
*Gradu'ate Gemologist:Gemological Institute of America •Fellow Gemmologist:
Gemmological Association of Great Britain *B.A.: Indiana University 
Lobby St. Joseph Bank Bu'lding South Bend, Indiana Telephone: 287-1427 
John M. Marshall's 


COtamond 9mpottt Compangl 
Your Source for the Unusual

......,,,..' 
sleep 
. 



cheap! 
Elkhart 1-80-90 at S.R. 19 (219) 262-3691 
Spotless housekeeping, quiet construction, X-Iong double beds, wall-to-wall shag carpeting, Color TV, direct dial telephone, full bath. at-your­door parking, individually controlled heating and air conditioning. 
Single $10.95·$11.95/Double $13.95-$15.95 
I 

I was growing up," he said. "Everybody was against niggers. Most people were even against Jews. I am against Jews beeause they control the press and televi­sion and let things like 'Roots' be put on that advocates violence against the white race." 
"Roots" was a film depiction of a black man's search for his ances­try, based on Alex Haley's novel. It was shown on the ABC television network. . 
Stoner was a candidate for governor of Georgia in 1970 and won about 2.2 percent of the vote. In 1974. he ran for lieutenant governor, and got more than 73,000 votes, more than nine percent of the turnout. 
• 
, 

need posters in a hurry? 


• • ®
•nsly·pr•nl$ 
the wiz ~the printingbiz! 

1OQ__:__tt x·!-~ P_C?_~ters 
Only $10.001 

203 N. Main .SOBeri~· 289-6977 
-~----------~--------------------------------~--------, 
Thursday, February 17, 1977 the observer 
--~~------~~~~~~~----~ 


Goy en praises SLF spirit, reads from works 
-by Barbara Breitenstein 

News EdJtor  
Calling  the  Sophomore  Literary  
Festival (SLF)  "a gift,"  William  
Goyen,  novelist,  spoke  on  the  


WilLIAM GOYEN · 

experience of writing and read from two of his novels last night, the fourth night of the SLF. 
Goyen praised the spirit of the festival in his opening remarks, explaining, "What we've found is a little space here to get in touch with ourselves and with our feelings 
again.  That's a  gift."  
"Writers  are  very  personal,"  
Goyen  explained  to  about  250  

students in attendance, "What we've made up is often associated 
· · 1 d f ff~tth pam ~nd ~no~ e ~~ ~u~uof~~­
1 
mg asi';e ats e JOty a b k,
too. t s no easy o open a oo
that re resents a big chunk of very d p d · " h
1
s::d an persona expertence, e The Texas-born author, whose works are based on "the city I grew u in " read first from his latest p ' Co th R to The 
_novel, me, e es rer. 
book centers around the restorer, a
" 
h b d
character w o was ase on an 
· · . t t f Id h t
0 ld ttmeran res orer o o p o o-
graphs" Goyen remembered from his childhood. 
"I though he was a magical man," Goyen said. "So he became 
the center of a world I created
around him. I wanted to write fantastically about real events. I enjoyed making it up." 
The story tells the adventures of 
Wiley  Prescott,  a  "firedevil,"  
whose  business  is  putting  out  
oilwell  fires  in  fictional  Rose,  

Texas. Prescott becomes rich by taking a percentage of each well he saves, then buying his own well and eventually starting a develop­ment operation. 
"To bring down or dig up was his natural instinct," the story ex­plains, as Prescott builds his subdivision, Prescott Heights. He was the ''beginning of a generation that poisoned itself," Goyen says. 
The reading also included a short section of the book about Cleon Peters, the "Oil King," and his "fake snake, Jake." The audience laughed and applauded several times during Goyen's reading from the novel. 
Commenting that he wanted to "start funny and end sad," Goyen then read from The House of 

WASIDNGTON AP-E. Howard Hunt Jr., the chief talent recruiter and lookout for the Water.gate burglary, paid his $10,000 fine yesterday and cleared the way for his parole Feb. 25. 
Ceiling proposed on health costs 
[continued from page 1] both hospital and physician care" that need to be brought under control. 
Meanwhile, an HEW spokesman 

confirmed that the proposal for a 
federal agency to set ceilings on 
health-care costs is awaiting Car­
ter's attention. The spokesman 
said such an agency would require 
all hospitals to limit price hikes to 
those approved by the agency. 
Health care costs have been 

rising considerably faster than the 
inflation rate for the rest of the 
economy. The increases have been 
a major element in the spiraling 
costs of Medicare and Medicaid, 
which are expected to get $40.3 
billion in federal funds next year. 
The fine was paid with a check drawn on the account of the Baltimore, Md., law firm that represents Hunt. His lawyer, Wil­liam Snyder, said Hunt paid the fine with an insurance settlement and money raised by mortgaging a house. 
Hunt is serving a 30-months to 8-year term at the federal prison camp at Eglin Air Force Base in Florida for his role in the break-in at Democratic party headquarters in the Watergate Office Building on June 17, 1972. He pleaded guilty to charges of conspiracy, burglary and illegal wiretapping. 
As soon as Hunt is freed, he will fly to Washington to testify in a civil suit which is an outgrowth of the Watergate case, Snyder said. Hunt is a defendant in the suit, along with others. 
Last month, the U.S. Parole Commission ordered Hunt's re­lease upon payment of the $10,000 fine. 
He had served the minimum 30 months on Jan. 10 in two stages. He was free for nearly 16 months in the middle of his prison term while 

Thinking about a NEW SUIT for Graduation & Interviews? 
BRING YOUR STUDENT I .D. 



DUBLIN HOUSE 

fora 
10o/o Discount 
Custan F"rHed 3 Piece Suitings & Shirts 

$175 tO $225 :~~~c:d!~ 9m:~e~~a~r 
Short on Cash?--pay half now and the other half at gra~uat1on--no mterest charges 
Grand Opening April 15 

Suite 2312 Am. Natl Bank Bldq. 1 l am-6pm ph. 288-6565 
B e th his 1950 award winnin much, like a photographer wouldn~v:l. ' An attempt to wri~e abou1 be taking photographs. , So_ I t<;'ld "people very close to me , the myself, 'Document, don t dte wtth 
• · d 't h rt t ' " 
readings described his home-town pam, on u ' c~e~ e. . nd the house he grew up in which Goyen began wrttmg at the age ~ere being "slowly eaten a~ay." of _1~, but ~id not be~in seriously "What I most wnated to do," wrt~mg until he was m the ~avy Goyen revealed, "was to record or durtn~ World War_II. He explat~ed memorialize the people around me that hts fear 0~ dymg before beu~g who I loved and who seemed to be able ro descrtbe and record hts 
. . b expertences the people he knew 
vamshmg. They seemed to every h d t d h' t b . " . 
t 1and lt'mt'ted " "Tht's 1·s an a promp e tm o egm wn­
mor a · · h th' d " 
I work my first and closest " tmg t ese mgs own. 
ear Y , • B 'd th tw Is Goyen

SAM HAMOD 



Hunt pays fine, clears way for parole 
is the author of The Fair Sister, two collections of short stories and several other books. 
AI · th SLF 

so appearmg ~t e . yesterday afternoon were Naomt Shihab, songwriter, composer and 
au~hor, and Sam Hamod, poet and edttor of. Cedar Cree~ Press.. _The Ltterary Festival co~tmue.s wtth Steve Katz, autho~-m-rest­
dence at Notre Dame, thts after-
d W'll' S B h 

noon an 1 tam . urroug s,
h · h b h · h l'b

aut or • tomg t, ot In t e I rary
d't · 

March 7. estions?? 4155 
I
trhere IS a difference!!! 
PREPARE FOR: 




~-~-~ 
GMAT • GRE • OCAT 
CPAT ·VAT • SAT 
Our broad range of programs provides an umbrella of test­ing know-how that enables us to offer the best preparation available, no matter which course is taken. Over 38 years of experience and su!:cess. Small classes. Voluminous home study materials. Courses that are constantly up­dated. Permanent centers open days & weekends all year. Complete tape facilities lor review of class lessons and lor use of supplementary materials. Make-ups lor missed les­sons at our centers. 
ASK ABOUT OUR COMPACT COURSES 
2050 W. Devon ~~-H Chicago, Ill. 60645(, .,.. N. (312) 764-5151 lVI 
. EDUCATIONAl CENTER 
Outs1de NY State Onlv 
CALL TOLL FREE 
TEST PREPARATION 

" " SPECIALISTS SINCE 1q)b
800 221 9840 

PREPARE FOR THE NEW MCAT WHERE THERE IS ALWAYS A DIFFERENCE 
St. Mar~'s Social Commission presents: 



Frederic Storaska 
'' Howto SayNo 
to a Rapist and Survive'' Thurs., Feb. 17 8:00p01 Carroll Hall-Made1Pva Free Admission 

.'·' 



Thursday, February 17, 1977


SMC to revise RA training program 
by Mary Pinard 

The expansion of the Resident Advisor program at St. Mary's is still in the planning stages with changes being discussed, stated Gail Ritchie, assistant director of counseling. 
"We are in the state of reflection about where we are and how we can meet the needs of the students, Ritchie added. 
Kathleen Rice, dean of student affairs previously mentioned speci­fic changes to be made in the RA 
United Way picks leaders 
Selection of the voluteer leader­ship positions for United Way of South Bend were announced Tues­day by Patrick L. O'Malley, Jr., presidentof the agency's board of directors. 
Appointed to second terms as chairpersons of the central services divisions were Dr. Thomas Broden, director of Urban Studies at Notre Dame, who will head the Planning Division and W. Jack Richards, financial secretary of Bendix Local #9, UAW, who will continue to serv as chairperson ofthe Labor Partici­pation Committee. 
Appointed to first terms are Stanley Smith, former general manager of the Bendix Energy controls Division, who will chair the Evaluation and Allocations Division and Paula Stott, marketing repre­sentative for Honeywell Informa­tion Systems, Inc., who will direct the communications Department. 
Appointment of the fund raising division chairperson will be an­nounced at a later date according to O'Malley. 
All division chairpersons auto­matically serve on the board of directors. 
Other board officers re-elected at the Annual Meeting held earlier this month were Vice-President Mrs. Ronald Jaicomo and Trea­surer Benton M. Wakefield, Jr. 
Newly elected members of the board included: Albert J. Beutler, Bethel College; Robert HJff, UAW Local #5; Lex B. Wilkinson, Ameri­can National Bank & Trust Com­pany; Mrs. Stephen Lobdell; Maurice Roberts, Local #1095 UAW; Louis S. LaPierre Ill, Dodge Division Reliance Electric Com­pany, all for three year terms and Mrs. Donald Chamberlain to fill remaining two years of an unex­pired term, O'Malley stated. 
Renominated for regular three year terms wen'" Donald A. Dake, 
Plus Hundreds of Storewide · Sports Values. 
Don't miss the \ sale Sunday,KIS Feb. 20th Only!! 
on 
EASY TO REACH VIA ALL 
X-WAYS 
Exit on Ohio St. ,_..._••
1
go 3 blocks east. 
program such as RAs being trained in career and academic counseling and assigned to dorm sections accordingly, the RAs disciplinary role being clarified and the two­
credit  psychology  course  for  the  
core-training  program  being  
evaluated.  

St. Mary's Student Affairs office continues to ask for student input on proposed nd any new changes in the RA system. 
An additional change under con­sideration is a commuter-student who, like the RA for the dorm resident, will assist the commuter 

son, chairman of College Republi-"----------------.1 cans said. He added that a number .-.....--------::::------,......--..., of federal employees will receive 'lt.y, I(RUNCH' qu~. similar pay raises. ~-KRutvq.,, .,;&<:--"" I(RUNCH' 
"The alarming thing is that this ' I(RUNCH' ~~d'­measure will go into effect without 
ki(UNCH• 
or non-resident student. A letter .has been sent to several randomly chosen non-resident students in­viting them to an informal discus­sion on Monday, Feb. 21. Ritchie said. 
"We will discuss and identify the needs of non-resident students. Then, we can determine a job description for those who want to apply for a commqter-student advi­sor position. We are very excited about the idea," she continued. 
Kim Skinner, chairperson of the:r••••,....,.~••w•i.,....-.............~.ijiiiijiii 
All students should say what they like and don't like. The important thing is for them to come forward,'' she said. 
"The role of the RA may eventually depend on what dorm they live in," a McCandless RA mentioned. "In Regina, for exam-pie, if there are more freshmen, the RA's role would be more adminis­trative. The RAs in McCandless, usually a senior dorm, would be more aware of career development or areas that would be of interest to upperclass women," she added. 
The steering and grievance com­mittee, comprist.:d of two RAs from each dorm, discusses new propo-­sals and any complaints that may arise concerning the RA program. 
The committee meets every Thursday at 8 a.m. in the cafeteria for breakfast. Suggestions or ideas for change in the RA program should be submitted to RAs who then them to the 
vote in either house of Congress," Richardson noted. 
''The petitions do not say a pay raise is out of order, but that a vote to show how each representative stands is in order,'' he explained. 
The petition also contains a provision for an ethics code that 
would closely monitor  sources  of  
outside  income  to  members  of  
Congress.  

Both the president of Young Democrats, Paul Falduto, and Richardson emphasized that mem­bers in either club are not in any way committed to this petition. 
The petitions will be in the dining halls at Notre Dame and St. Mary's tonight at dinner. Persons interested in helping with distribu­tion of the petitions may call either Falduto, 3527, or Richardson, 3506. 

,:::;:::roc!--to MIDNIGHT 
SUNDAY, FEB. 2 


SKIERS!! 
RUN ..• RIDE •.. FLY 
COME TO 
CHICAGO, ILL. 
FOR THIS 
Super 1-Da 
At a nominal charge extra, binding mechanics will install your equip. Sunday 
. .. so take your skis the same day. 


Cometo '· wherethe 

Krunchis! 
.,. . -:.;)1_ 

. 't L -.-.-::~ Fish
Shnmp ·'\'.4..~.":..1' -···-&
Chicken . , "" : ·~'~Chips Krunch-Pup (~·)t=. 'J'i 
-.,....._: Chowder 

FREE refilly··, on all .· ~ 
DRINKS ·. f~­
1733 N. Ironwood Drive Corner of Ironwood & State Road 23 


6 A.M. 
fat wanv's Just past OPEN FRI. &SAT. TILL MIDNIGHT 
6-Packs 




$1.19 
Old Chicago 
Philadelphi~ $489 $g59 .---W--.h•skey q~ or gl 
Rum Vodka $399 $49Jt Gin $3~. 
KentuckY. Tavern 


$549

Bourbon at. Guckenhiemer 
$495

Whiskey 
Qt. 



PARTY?!? 
Don't forget we're open 'till MIDNIGHT!! 

\.OCI(s, LIQUOR WoR\.0 
South Bend Ave. 
277-3611 12 pack Busch 




$308 

8 pack Stroh's 


$207 
I 

Records 
Harry Chapin paints his songs of life---­
When preparing to review a concert, I frequently get a hold of as many albums of the particular performer as possible. This isn't done to memorize every song or become aware of interesting chord pro­gressions, but to familiarize myself with the artist's choice of material and get an overall feel for the way it's presented. In the case of the folk singer, the lyrics and subsequent themes usually come under particular scrutiny. sometimes a particular album is representative of a performer. 
In the case of Harry Chapin, who is performing at the Morris Civis Auditorium this Saturday night, Portrait Gallery (which came out in 1975), is an album which is a,n accutate representation of his style. It contains elements of what is expected from Harry Chapin -both good aud bad. Perhaps the most obvious aspect of the album is the subjects which Chapin sings about. All the Chapin regulars are there ­the dreamer, the adult-child, the fool, children, the song to his wife, the comical narrative and the bummer narrative. Almost incredibly, the bummer narrative is titled "Bummer." It in no way follows the tradition of "Taxi;" in fact, it shows off a bad habit of pretentious writing that Chapin sometimes falls into. 
His Mama was a midnight woman His Daddy was a drifter drummer One night they put it together 
Nine months later came the little 
black bummer 
by Gregg Bangs 
The song, which is some sort of social commentary, gets progressively worse after these lyrics. To make matters worse, there is a string section employed that makes this as dramatic as a soap opera. 
Luckily, Chapin stays away from this type of song in his other selections. "Someone Keeps Calling My Name" is a thoughtful look at hos children look at the world they're coming into. a children's chorus is used well in this selection. 
Although not quite as effective as Elton John's "Rocket Man," "Star Tripper" nevertheless presents a disenchanting picture of the astronaut business. 
"Dreams Go By" deals with what is perhaps Chapin's most consistent subject­the dreamer. Chapin himself is a man always thinking of better times ; he gives an enormous amount of free concerts for world hunger. He looks at frustrated adults, guesses what they would rather be doing and writes about it. The formula is effective for Chapin because his dramatic vocal delivery makes the dreams seem like the crux of man's existence. Yet its believeable. 
"Sandy," a homage to his wife, could've become soupy like John Denver's "Annie's Song,'' but Chapin sings with such a sense of conviction that you just have to believe him. These are not just lyrics -he lives 

1 
-~-----clip & Save----.... · Hoffman Bros. 1·
1 na~ll)_a"O-bros Auto Parts Store I
I 20% Discount on I 
I ALL Parts For Notre Dame And I I St. Mary's Students & Faculty 1
I Offer corner of I Expires 1101 EMadisonand I Aug, 1977 Cli & Save Eddy Road I 
------~------~-­

NOTRE D4ME STUDENT UNION & SUNSHINE PROMOTIONS PRESENT 
RICK DERRINGER and JOURNEY 
MON04Y, FEBRUARY 28 7:30P.M. NOTRE 04ME A.C.C. Tickets: $6.50, $6.00 & $5.00 
ACr:. I!Ql( OfFICE. ROflHilSONS SQUIH II[Nu OM CONCOQO ..of!loiiNKilALl!IR.fNCH£5 ~IR!ill!o(NK tMIN~NCMONlV lhEEIKH'IIll NOTRf Q.4MI SIUOfNl UNION TICKfl OHICf aooGI. RfCOIIOS A!SI 1-0$1 
!Hf llfCOI!fJ SIJSPfNI~D CC»D -.n UKI"AQ1 11. •;()SiqN nnr:1 HIJ Rf(OIIf.) JCJINI mNILfS 
--~­


the lines. They are convincing: 
Sandy is my mirror There are secrets in her eyes And every single morning She dawns a new disguise She has caught the mystery of all 
that's wild and free Oh yes, I see the world in her For she means the world to me 
Chapin's instrumentation is primarily used to compliment the lyrics. There are never any solos and barely any filler work. However, the work is competent. Steve Chapin on piano and Don Payne on bass are particularly effective. 
1/5 Seagrams REG $545 
NOW $399 

Quart Castillo Rum REG $580 
NOW 

-~ 

Although Harry Chapin does deal with somewhat depressing themes at times, a great many of his songs are optimistic in nature. Even the singer himself gets tired of sad songs as he says in "Stop Singing Those .Sad Songs": 
Stop Singing these sad songs Just tell me 'bout the good times I have heard that cold hard truth so many times before 
Chapin sings primarily of his own experiences. However, the songs are written well enough so that each listener can claim them for their own. Go see Harry Chapin on Saturday -you'll see and hear a little about yourself .. 
Quart Vodka REG $540 
NOW 


1/5 Sangria REG s21s 
NOW 
Cases of Beer $399 
Don't Forget -­
$.25 Seven & Sevens THURS NIGHT 7 -11 
. ~--------~----------~--­
r---------------~-----------~ 
.? 

Congress pay raise goes into effect 
WASHINGTON AP • A pay raise for members of Congress, fe'deral judges and high federal officials seemed certain yesterday to go into effect without a House vote after a move to put members on record individually failed. 
The attempt to bring the issue to the House floor for a vote would have required unanimous consent. It was blocked by Rep. Charles H. Wilson, D-Calif. 
Members objecting to the pay raise, or to the no-vote method of enacting it, or both, vowed to continue their efforts to force a roll call. Some said they would try to block weekend adjournment of the House, scheduled for today. 
But they acknowledged the odds against them were long. House Republican Leader John J. Rhodes, who sposnored the attempt to force a House vote, told reporters: "I am at a loss to know what else anybody can do to get this to a vote." 
Unless the House votes a disap­proving resolution by midnight Saturday, the pay raise -for· representatives and seantors a 512,900 increase to $57,500-goes into effect automatically. The Sen­ate by a 56-42 vote Feb. 2, has already in effect refused to block the raise. The Senate is in recess until Monday. 

"We have to have greater res­pect for the intelligence of the American people than to believe that they will not see through this charade," Rhodes said. " ... We must face up to our responsibility and have a recorded vote." 
He later told reporters he would not necessarily oppose, raises for judges and officials, but does not think members of Congress should have one until the federal budget is balanced. 
Wilson, a member of a subcom­mittee that voted down a resolution of disapproval, said of the efforts to force a vote: "I think there is some demagoguery there." 
Wilson said the matter was being handled under proper procedures and that "one of the purposes of the 1967 law establishing the procedures was to prevent Cong­ress from having to vote on its own pay raises." 
Rep. · Robert H. Lagomarsino, 
VATICAN CITY [AP] • Vatican radio has erected the largest ro­tating antenna in the world to strengthen the voice of the Pope around the globe -and try to gain the upper hand on Communist jammers in Eastern Europe. 
The new transmitter, with 500 
kilowatts of power for short wave, 
Davenport talks on '80 Olympics 
[continued from page 1] 
Olympians Tommie Smith and Lee 
Evans were "signs of courage." 
Also he cited the protests of 1972 
Olympians Wayne Collett Vince 
Matthews, one of whom refused to 
remove his hat when the national 
anthem was played after the fianls 
of the 400 meter dash. 
In the 1976 Olympics, Davenport revealed that the U.S. was asked to boycott with the Taiwanese team. "And we refused," Davenport said, "because we did our thing, but now it was time for them to do their thing." He pointed out that the other nations did not stand up for the black cause in the 1968 and 1972 Olympics. 
The protests of 1968 was sup­possed to be "a secret," Davenport said. But it leaked out to the press, and each black athlete chose how he would protest individually the black struggle in America. 
Davenport's 20-minute presen­tation was part of the 1977 Notre: Dame Black Cultural Arts Festival entitled, "An Inquiry into Modern Black America.'' The festival con­tinues on Friday, Feb. 18 when the featured speaker will be Delano Lewis, vice-president of C and P Telephone Co. in Washington, 
D.C' 

ahe Wim1jammer 
CREATIVE HAIR DESIGN FOR THE SEXES 
RElAXING ATMOSPHERE 
FREE HAm ANALYSIS ~TAIL CENTER
" 
·.•. 
I ,• ,.. ,,. .... .-.... o" ,"' • ~-o. ,-> a·,-• > • o -, ' ' I • I 

is expected to become operational by summer, Vatican radio officials said Wednesday. The tower, 260 feet high, surpasses Iran's outlet as the most powerful for short wave. 
The new transmitter and the 
increased power of Vatican radio could bring sharp reaction and incr~asing jamming from the Com­
mumst lands of Eastern Europe.

Yesterday, a Czechoslovak week­ly, Tribuna, included Vatican radio in a scathing attack on Western broadcasting. It charged ideologi­cal subversion against Czechoslo­vakia and other Communist countries. 
In a recent visit to Italy, Soviet editor Alexander Tchaikovsky of the weekly Llteratumaya Gazeta mentioned Vatican radio as one of the Western stations that beam news of dissidents in Russia. 
Last week, Vatican radio an­nounced that a Czechoslovak priest was assigned to a "re-education" institution for two years for ex­horting his parishioners to listen to Vatican radio broadcasts. 
The Rev. Sabino Maffeo, techni­cal director of Vatican radio, said the new transmitting tower, 10 miles outside Rome, is designed "for the diffusion of the message of 
Christ,and the words of his vicar to 
listeners in the entire world, parti­
cularly for those in nations where 
the  church  does  not  enjoy  full  
liberty."  
The  Rev.  Pasquale  Bogomeo,  

program director, said the East European jamming forces the radio to occasionally switch frequencies, but that the jamming is not at the level it reached during the cold war da_ys. 
f 0 ft.) 0 If I 0 t 0,1.0 1.1,9, ,1.0,1,0 ,_... 1,0,0 
R-Calif., said he went back to his district during the recess that ended yesterday and "there was only one thing all my constitiuents were talking about, the propsed pay increase. Some defended the need, but not one single one wanted it to go through without a vote." 
House Speaker Thomas P. O'Neill said at a news conference he favors the pay raise and would vote for it on a roll call, but doubts that it would pass if such a vote were held. He also defended the procedures for putting the raise into effect unless Congress moves to disapprove it. 
He said "I have been belea­guered" with questions as to why he did not arrange for a recorded vote, but that he had checked the rules and found no way a Speaker could take a bill away from a 
committee and bring it to the floor. 
Rep. Robert E. Bauman, R-Md., and other opponents challenged 
this both in a floor discussion with ..... O'Neill and at a news conference later. ' 
They ,said O'Neill could use his 

1 
World's largest antenna 

Vatican builds bigger radio 
influence to have the House Rules Committee set up special proce­dures permitting a vote Thursday. 
Rep. Charles E. Grassley, R­Io::va. said he and others will keep the pressure on O"Neill to work through the Rules Committee and would try to keep the House in · session beyond Thursday if there 
were no action-or at least to force a vote on adjournment. Such a vote, he said, could be an indicationof members' position on the pay raise issue. 
The pay raise came before Congress under the provisions of a 1967 act specifying ~hat a special commission every four years re­views the compensation of mem­hers of Congress, federal judges and high officials and recommend needed adjustments. 
The President reviews its recom­mendations and sends them to 


Congre:ss:s,~m;o~d~ifi;Ie;d~if~h;e~s~e~e;s~fi~It~..:l~~~~;~l;l;;r... 
.... 
President Gerald R. Ford sent the current recommendations to Cong­ress just before leaving office. Unless either chamber adopts a disapproving resolution in 30 days, the raises go into effect automati­cally. In the IJresent case, the 30-day deadline ends at midnight Saturday _ 

"The radio,"  he  added,  "has  
become less aggressive in line with  
the Ostpolitik opening to the East  
of Vatican diplomacy.  We abstain  
from  specific attacks  on  nations  
and even quote. Communist publi­cations in our newscasts."  ~  YHI  .....D.A.  
Father Borgomeo also said Vati- A film by Lina Wertmuller  
can  radio is  more  objective  than  Friday--7 :30, 9:30  Friday--7 :15, 9:30  

government subsidized radios, ~~~s~a~t-~S~un~-~--1~:3~0~,~3~:3~0~,5~:~30~·~7~:3~0~,~9~:3!0~!s!a~t-~Su~n~-~-2~:1~5!,~4!:3!0!,7!:!15!,!9!:3!0!!~
such as the Voice of America and Radio Free Europe, because it emanates from a city-state founded on moral principles and its news­casts quote independent news . agency dispatches. It also carries religious news and popular music. 
Soviet dissident Yuri Orlov has estimated that one-fourth of Soviet city-dwellers listen to foreign broadcasts. And Soviet leader Leonid I. Brezhnev has remarked that such broadcasts "poison the atmos here." 
Special Wed.&Thurs. Tostada Dinner$1.60 
.~·~ 
~~-~~ 

~w~Tro 
-(urs~ 

~ REST~AN,ftl 
"• _;; ~ 
~~ • A
'~')~~ 
~­
11 a.m. to 11 p.m. 
233-0385 526 Western Ave., South Bend 

-9 
NOW ACCEPTING PASSES AND REDUCED ADMISSION TICKETS 



Held Over
NEXT TO NORTH VILLAGE MALL 

9th Smash Week!!!!! 
IT'S TBE MOST IIIIJUIIOUS SUSPENSE BIDE OF YOUB LD'E! 

SILVER STRERI-1 
Sta<f>"9 
GENE wILDER ­
J.ti.l:ClAYBURGH­

No Passes or Discount Tickets 
RICHARD -PRYOR­Wedrdays 7z00.9&30 s.t. & SUo. lit ~Cl04:JU.7i00.9-.40 
PORUMn 

Held Over!! 
BONNIE 
7 :30 -9 :30 Sat • Sun AND 
Mon. (holiday) 
1:45 . 3:35 -5:25 . I"'VhE 
7:30 · 9:40 pm. ""L'II. 
DIEYAINT. 


"FUN WITH DICK&JANE" 
George Segal -Jane Fonda -Ed McMahon 
..1.>.1 '•'·' I,.,.,,.,,•.• l'o"l' 
2 
THERE MUST FOREVER DEA GUARDIAN AT THE thr ~ATE FROM HELL... 
sen11Pel~= 
1:45, 3:45, .7~:~45~,~9~~~~ ~ 
.• •• ,· ••-.......-.• .......• ,. ...• ... , ., ~ • ol ,; .•• .~ : 

--.-~----~-----------~--------_..........,_...~......,..-._...______.,..
~~-.-­
1 
I 
I 
sole survivor of the shotgun slay­ 
ings of four young  brothers told  
police yesterday she recognized  a  
sketch of a robbery suspect as one  
of the assailants who burst into the  
family's rural home.  
Betty Spencer, mother of one of  
the victims and stepmother of the  
other three, identifted the compo­ 
site drawing of the youth from her  
bed  at  a  Terre  Haute  hospital,  
where she has been under cpnstant  
guard.  
The  drawing  of  the  suspect,  
between 14  and 16 years old with  
blond, curly hair, was based on the  
descriptions given by  a  Fountain  
County couple  after  four  youths  
broke into their home early Satur­ 
day.  Mrs. Pat Chrisman said the  
intruders, armed with  a  shotgun,  
took $27 and anotber shotgun.  
Based  on  information  provided  
by  Mrs.  Spencer,  a  police  artist  
made composite drawings of two  
other suspects.  She described one  
as being between 20 and 25, about  
Ice Capades opened  last night before a  large, family type ACC  200 pounds with long, wavy brown  
crowd.  (photo by Barbara Dodge)  hair.  She  said  the  other  was  
between  17  and  20, of  medium,  

the observer 7 

Thursday, Fei;Jruary 17, 1977 
Shotgun murderers tentatively 
!o~!:'!G~~. ~~he ~Y.. w!~~!i~ T.d~ :. T~t~n!~outhwesrern 
Europe to join U.S. on Space/ab 
WASHINGTON [AP] • An Ameri­can scientist and a European scientist will fly in orbit together when the ftrst Spacelab is launched in 1980, the National Aeronautics Space Administration (NASA) said yesterday. 
The flight will be the second international space mission for the United States. In 1975, three American astronauts linked up in space with a Russian ship carrying two cosmonauts. 
Three other Americans will fly on the ftrst Spacelab mission. They will be the two pilots and the flight engineer who will man the U.S.­built Space Shuttle, which is to ferry the Spacelab into orbit from Cape Canaveral, Fla. 
The two scientists are to work different shifts so that experiments can continue 24 hours a day during the week-long test of the big laboratory. They will orbit 155 miles above the earth. 
NOTICES 

Tickets for the Feb. 23 Bruce Springsteen and the E Street Band concert at the Auditorium Theatre in Chicago are now on sale at the River City Ticket outlets: Just for the Record C1 oo Center) and Boogie Records (College Square). 
Accurate, fast typing. Mrs. Donoho 232-0746. Hours--8 am to 8 pm 
USED BOOKS. BOOK BARN. 1 mile north of Notre Dame. 272-5520 
Papers professionally typed. Tele­phone evenings 272-8308. 
Will teach you flute in your spare time. Call Beth 8112. 
NEED TYPING? Executary Inc. Professional Typing Service--85 cents a page. 232-0898. 
Greyhound Bus to Chicago leaves main circle every Friday at approx. 
5:45. Call Tom at 8338 for seat reservations. 
MORRISSEY LOAN FUND $20-150. 1 day wait, 1 percent interest. Due in 30 days. LaFortune Basement M-F 11:15-12:15. 
FOR RENT 

Two bedroom house to rent. Summer and oi-school year. 1012 Eddy Street. $120 mo. plus utilities. Call Oddies Harris at 232-8563. 
-------------------·-----------­3 Room furnished house within walking distance of campus. Rent and utilities. One-half block trom Campeau St. Call 232-8563. 
4 Bedrooms, living room, dining room kitchen. Utilities paid. $100 per month. Call Oscar 233-1850. 
LOST AND FOUND 

LOST: LADlE'S TIMEX GOLD WITH BROWN BAND CALENDAR IDATE ONLY) BETWEEN SR. BAR AND BREEN PHILLIPS. REWARD. CALLPAT1321 
FOUND: SINGLE KEY MARKED TAVLOR X-7 FOUND IN SECOR­NER OF NEAR D-2. phone 1251-­
Chris. 
The Spacelab will remain at­tached to the Shuttle during their 
mission. On later flights the Shuttle will deposit the Spacelab in space and return up to 30 days later to bring it back to earth. As many as four scientists, including all­foreign teams, will occupy the lab on these later trips. 
The American scientist will be selected by NASA, the other by the European Space Agency (ESA), an eleven-nation group. The scien­tists won't have to undergo rigor­ous astronaut training and they'll work in a shirtsleeve atmosphere. 
The scientific team will be se­lected a year or so before the flight. 
The European scientist will come from one of the ESA nations­Belgium, Denmark, France, Great Britain, Ireland, Italy, the Nether­lands, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland and West Germany. 
The international aspect of the ftrst mission was further deftned 
LOST: GLASSES, BROWN PLAS· TIC FRAME AND CLEAR LENSES. BLACK VINYL CASE--BETWEEN ACC AND DILLON. Mike 1725. 
LOST: a circular yellow onyx earring between Sorin and Main Circle or on bus to Holy Cross (SMC) Sentimen­tal value. Reward--4374. 
FOUND: Ladie's Watch found in Washington Hall on Saturday. Call 272-3207 after 4 pm. 
LOST: Brownish Ektelon racquetball racquet at the ACC on either Wednesday or Thursday, if found, please call Kevin at 1811. There is a reward. 
WANTED 
Wanted: 2 GA Tix to San Franscico. Call1279. 
Universal Custom Pillows looking for· sales person to work on a commission basis selling extra large custom Throw-pillows. For more details, call 233-66416 between 1 and 5 pm. 
Two girls need ride to Florida. Tampa-St. Pete Area. Spring Break. Susan 4-5149. 
3 need ride to Ft. Lauderdale over break. Call 287-8386. 
NEED RIDE TO COLUMBUS FEB. 2"5 (FRIDAY) Call Tim 1658. 
WNATED: Rides to Ft. Lauderdale for Bre~k. Call Brian 1589 or 1516. 
Neecr Ride to Ft. Lauderdale tor Spring Break. Will share drivina and expenses. Call Pat 1514. · 
WANTED: Rug--12x14 Call 4-4122 Charyl. 
WANTED: House for next fall. East of Juniper preferred. Chris 287-517 5 after Five. 
Need Ride to St. Louis area for March Break. Call Peggy 4-4381. 
WANTED: Ride to Madison,. Wis­consin this weekend. Call Donna a 136. 

Wednesday when NASA an­nounced that 222 scientists from 16 countries will prepare experiments for the flight. They were selected from 2,000 who submitted suggestions. 
NASA picked 86 of the scientists, with 81 from the United States and the others from India, Japan, Canada, France and Belgium. The Europeans selected the other 136 from its member countries and from Norway and Austria. 
Experiments will be performed in physics, biology, botony, medi­cine, astronomy, solar physics, geodesy, earth observations, ma­terials processing and thermo­dynamics. 
Both the Spacelab and the Shut­tle, scheduled for its maiden flight from Cape Canaveral in 1979, are r~usab~e and can be flown many times mto space after refurnish­ment back on earth. 
C
J ;.,.. d Ad
10SSb ze 
Need ride to Cleveland any weekend Call Fran 6865. 
Two girls need ride to Ft. Lauder­dale tor Spring Break. Call 4-4291 or 4-4378. 
Need ride to Pittsburgh the weekend of Feb. 18-20. Will be happy to share driving and expenses. Call 7995. 
NEED RIDE TO ROCKFORD, ILL. CHICAGO OR VICINITY ON FRI. FEB. 18. Call Dan 8816. 
Need ride to Chicago area Friday , Feb. 18. Call1600 or7096. 
NEED RIDE TO LOUISVILLE, KY ANY WEEKEND. CALLCLIF8421. 
TYPING. Call Carolyn at 232-9061. 
NEEDED: PAIRS OF GA LASALLE TIX. CALL STEVE 287-6058. 
GA Tickets for Wisconsin Series March 4 and 5. Will pay anything. Call John 289-2542. 
Need 2 or 4 GA Tickets for LaSalle. Will Pay. Call3203 or 1504. 
FOR SALE 

Telephoto Lens: 200 mm t 3.5 Soligor T-4 with mount for Nikon, Nikkormal. Includes sun shade and Tiffen UV filter. $100 • Cann be adapted to Canon, Minolta, Pentax, Olympus, etc. with a T-4 mount. Price withovt Nikon mount: $90. Call1845. Ask tor Tony. 
AUDIO OUTLET top name stereo equipment wholesale. Call 283-1181 
For Sale: Akai 33rd Cas5ette Deck with Dolby. Will take best price. Call John Erickson 1188. 
FOR SALE: 3 day old Mars 700 technical pen set (00-2) and 2 singles (2 1/4 and 4l. 5 percent below office engineer's. Never used. Call 8528. 
middle. 

Mrs. Spencer's statements ap­parently support the theory that the attacks may have been the work of a small gang of men who terrorized and robbed two other couples last week, police said. 
"There is a possibility of the same people being involved," said Sgt. Robert E. McClure, comman­der of the state police post at Terre Haute. "We're not sure at the present time. We're checking out all our leads." 
Capt. Stan Kenny, commander of the state police investigation division who was named to head the probe, said priority is being given to suspects with prior crimi­nal records. 
"Our investigators feel that they are making deftnite progress in the murder investigation," said State Police Supt. John T. Shettle. 
State police said they planned to show Mrs. Spencer the photo­graphs of three young transients arrested Monday night after they failed to pay their bill at a restaurant on U.S. 41 near Evans­
Editor-in-Chief 
of the Observer 
Applications for the position will be accepted 
through Feb. 18 
Submit cover letter and resume to : 
Tom O'Neil 
P.O. Box Q 


s QUICKEE CANCELLED THIS WEEKEND 
Nancy Cueroni thinks she is humor­ous, but really she is a joke. Psycho-ward friend. 
Happy Birthday to the world's best roomate: AMY HUFFMAN! From the world's other one! 
To Whom it May Concem Carnations are Red I'm out of my head Make yourself known So call on the phone 
Steph 

TMT, The Walnuts are blocking the porthole. How about a nutcracker instead of a shovel? Rm. 40 
Tp Trish-the-Dish The post man thinks you are cvte Sweter 
To the original Firesiders "You guys are such DOLLS" We love you, the original(and only) LADIES 
No Tears "will" be spilling for the queen, She is "will"ing cause with a friend like Y!JU no way can she be blue. 
Thanks 

Lou-I'm not a sex-starved rapist. Your anonymous Valentine. 
TTLGFR, Don't really know what to say, Let's make up again !! Cake mix Hines 
Do you want to leam how to drive a green fire truck? See Matt and Mike in 328 Dillon 
Three girls need a ride to Ft. Lauderdale over spring break. Call 4687. 
Billy, I miss you mucho! Marti 
Happy Birthday, Amy! From 2nd floor T-wing 
--------------------·------------­
Alone again? ND-SMC Hotline 4­4311 open nights. 
Tommy Bingle--Thanks tor King Kong;you'rehired! Anna 
PERSONALS 
corner. 
"I don't think that was a very substantial lead," Lt. Robert Jones. said from state police headquarters in Indianapolis. 
"But we don't want to leave any stone unturned." 
SU cancels Springsteen bus 
Due to a small response, the Student Union bus trip to the Bruce Springsteen concert in Chicago on Feb. 23 has been cancelled, Kevin Saddler, Student Union social com­missioner announced. 
Refunds will be available at the Student Union ticket office today from 12 p.m. to 4 p.m. students who purchased the $17.50 package will have the option of a full refund or keeping the $10.00 ticket to the concert and having the $7.50 bus ticket refunded. 
"Students should come in today to claim their refund so that all tickets and money can be accoun­ted for," Saddler stated. 
Dear Bozo Brothers, Thanks for taking us to the movies and for the great music at Crust Hut! Love, A Star is Bom Lover and a Chorus Line 
Hater 
To whom it may concem, Thanks tor the carnation. It was a nice surprise. Roseanne 
Beaver, Happy belated Ground Hog Day! 1 love you! 
Possum 

Strat-o-Matic Baseball Owners with new cards Call Mike 8923 
Judy, It's 4th of July and Willie Nelson's Picnic or else. Thanks for making this ole boy so happy. 
Pete 

Happy Birthday to SMC's own Bionic Woman! Keep eating those W heaties to keep your parts in gear. 
Oscar Goldman--OSI 
KEVIN+t1HANKS FOR THE BEST FIRST SIX MONTHS OF MARRI: AGE I'VE EVER HAD! Love, Ginny 
John Phelan, We Love you We need You We want You Be our Valentine Forever! 
Love, 1223 

To the birthday girl, Amy: We'll go out and help you whoop it up BIG tonight! Love, Mary Ann 

--~·----~-------­
ND fencers duel to 59 straight wins 
by Ray O'Brien in Niles, Illinois." done on horseback," noted DeCic­Sports Writer A high school teammate of co. Notre Dame's rriain strength Glass', Pat Gerard, holds the lies in the foil. 
The highest nationally ranked number one position in foils. Each weapon has three starters team in Notre Dame athletics is no Gerard holds a 21-1 record on the for every match. The three foilists longer the football, basketball or season and a 79-14 career total. As boast a total of 269 wins and 62 hockey teams. The Irish fencing a junior, Gerard already ranks losses. The second and third foil 
team boasts a 16-0 record this year fourth on the all-time foil list. positions are held by Terry McCon­
and a string of consecutive wins Notre Dame H.S. proved to be a ville, captain of the foil, and Mike that totals 59 at this point in the fencing stronghold as Gerard was a McCahey. "Some of the best season. two-time all-state fencer. Gerard is bouting we have seen this year 
At this time there is no ranked thirteenth in his specialty came in intrasquad matches," said looking back for Notre Dame's for the 1976 U.S. Olympic team. DeCicco. fencers. "We f6rget about all The third mainstay of the Irish While Notre Dame's depth is a records for now,'' explained head lineup manning the sabre is soph­strong advantage in duel matches, coach Mike DeCicco. "We want to omore standout Mike Sullivan. it is of no help when the NCAA 
just keep on winning and when it Sullivan was nothing less than championships roll around. That is ends, then we will look back at the fantastic in his first season at Notre the problem the Irish faced last records." This year's team holds Dame as he compiled an unprece­year and will again pose a problem so many prestigious marks that dented 53-1 record. His .981 in this year's tournament. looking at their own records would winning percentage places him Only the top specialists at each take up more time than practices. first on both the all-time Notre weapon participate in the NCAA 
The top three fencers for the Dame list and sabre list. This tournament. Notre Dame loses Irish showed a career win-loss outstanding season and a third their team depth advantage here. record of 281-43 going into this place finish in the NCAA champi­In the past two years the Notre: . season, for a phenomenal .874 onships last year earned Sullivan a Dame fencers have defeated the winning percent. Senior Tim Glass place on the NCAA All-America eventual NCAA champ during the leads the epee team in his second team. Ranked tenth for the 1980 regular season only to fall short in year as captain of that weapon. Olympics, Sullivan is destined to the finals. After going undefeated Glass holds a 119-23 individual shatter many Irish fencing records last year DeCicco's fencers fell to record in his three years of fencing. in years to come. third place in the finals at the Univ. The Niles, lllinois resident has Few sport fans know much about of Pennsylvania. This year defen­earned All-American recognition the three different weapons used in ding champ NYU will send the for the past two years. Last year fencing. "If people knew a little same three fencers that competed Glass finished sixth in the NCAA's more about the techniques used in for them in last year's champion­and is presently ranked fifth in the fencing, it's spectator popularity ship. Wayne State will enter Uri 
U.S. for the epee Olympic team. would increase," explained DeCic­Rabinowitz who was the 1975 sabre 
Glass was no newcomer to the co. The epee was the standard titleist. The other perennial power­sport when he entered Notre dueling weapon where the object houses are Cornell, Penn St. and U. Senior tri-captain Tim Glass leads the Irish epee squad with an Dame. He was a member of the was to draw blood first. In of Penn. "Any one of the six could individual record of 27-2. Notre Dame High School state competitive fencing the bloodshed win the national title this year," done much to raise our levels of NCAA championship which takes champion team in 1973 and was a has been taken out but the style of noted DeCicco. "We have an expectation and has been a major . place March 24th. The Irish 
U.S. Junior Olympic champion in attack is still the same. Points are excellent chance but I would have factor in the success we have been fencers will take on Ohio State, 1975. scored by contact with any part of to call NYU the favorite." enjoying of late." Michigan State and Illinois-Chica­Glass is one of only ten fencers the body. The third tri-captain for the Irish go Circle this week in a rare home out of the squad of 40 that had In the foil, only the groin area is Tim Mulligan. Mulligan, a sabre The ·Irish will be continually stand. The match will start at noon previous fencing experience. and above is a legal target for specialist, recorded 23 victories last working for their final goal of an in the Pit of the ACC. When asked about recruiting pro­points scored and contact may only year. Rounding out the starting cedures for fencing DeCicco ex­· be made with the tip. Points may squad are John Strass and Ed plained, "There is no real recrui­be scored with the sabre by contact Fellows, both of whom are epee­
ting done but five of the starting with any part of the body above the ists. Steve Salimondo is a retur­fen~;_e_r~ are from Notre Dame H.S. waist. "This form of attack was ning sophomore at the foil.Ray 0'Brien:=========================================================;=;=====;=;=;==================================================: Salimondo posted a 24-2 record as a %Observer 

The home stretch 

=====================;=============:=:=;=============================================================================================:ND today
The Irish cagers, sporting an eight game winning streak, return as visitors to the east where they will face the Jaspers of Manhatton College at Madison Square Garden (the mecca of eastern basketball). The last time Notre Dall!e visited the east, they were ranked second nationally and had won their first seven games. They were expecting some season greetings but were treated most inhospitably as Phelp's phenoms floundered in losses to Princeton, Kentucky and Villanova which sent them plummeting out of the nationl!l rankings. 
The team that will be playing tonight is not the same team that came crawling back home after Christmas break in the beginning of the year. The names and faces are the same but the similarity ends there. This year's team is a young one and it has evolved in stages that are most apparent when looking over its schedule. 
The season seems to break down into four different sections. In the first quarter of the season the Irish surprised everyone by winning their first seven games. Everyone was wondering if this team was for real. They decided it was not as Notre Dame entered their second quarter of the season. 
Losing five out of the next six games was a real shock for an immature team that could do nothing wrong at the outset of the season. Shooting percentages dropped with the mercury and turnovers followed in the opposite direction. 
Not a bit too soon came the third and easiest leg of the season. The Irish have matured in the last eight games. The problems that were everpresent during the losing span have been rectified. Duck Williams has refound his shooting touch as he led the team in scoring in five of those last eight wins. Rich Branning has weathered the test of time and has proven himself as a solid starter. Branning is particularly more adept as an offensive threat as his shooting percent jumped from .484 to .536 in the last eight games. This has taken much of the pressure off Williams. Knight has established himself as one of the top college centers in the country. 
The two players that have made the biggest difference in this last eight game stretch are Dave Batton and Bill Paterno. The Irish Colt has been averaging nearly 17 points per game in the last five games. Paterno has taken his role as sixth man in stride. This move has worked out extremely well forthelrish,and Paterno in particular, as he has regained his touch from the outside connecting on just under SO percent of his fieki goals in the last eight games (compared to 39 percent in the first 13 contests). With the Apple no longer sour and Carpenter giving Williams and Branning breathers the Irish are in fine shape as they come down the home stretch of the season. 
The team that is playing tonight is a matured squad that is not likely to be upset. They have confidence fn themselves that has been strengthened by the most recent performances. A good indication of the team's maturing bas been the turnovers which have dropped drastically in games lately. This will be the key factor in the Irish's ultimate success at the year end. Digger's Demons can put themselves in excellent shape when NCAA tournament time comes around by beating DePaul and San Francisco. Their success hinges on their overall team play as they have found a winning groove that is hard to beat. If their confidence withholds the tests of the fourth leg of this developing season the Irish will truely be national contenders. 
substitute last year. 
Much of the credit for the team's success goes to assistant coach Risto Hurme. Hurme is a former NYU epee team captain and one of the three people to ever win three NCAA tit}es in their collegiate 

... sports. careers (1973-75). "I credit Risto for conditioning our fencers and 
-' .. (­
keeping them with a competitive 
edge," praised DeCicco. "He has 
' 

San Francisco still tops AP poll 
The college basketball rankirgs Alabama, 19-2 and No. 7 last The Rebels of Nevada-Las Vegas have been compared by some week, defeated Mississippi 72-68 routed Denver 106-84 and then observers as not unlike a high-rise and Mississippi State 73-69 to beat No. 6 Louisville 99-96 to leap apartment building. collect 530 votes and jump to fourth from lOth to No.6. 
There's the penthouse-occupied place. Wake Forest, 19-3 and No. 4 a this week and most of the season by Michigan, 18-3, beat Minnesota week ago, fell to seventh after undefeated San Francisco. 86-80 but lost to Indiana 73-64 to losing to Clemson 70-66 before 
And there's the elevator that the remain fifth. beating North Carolina State teams ride, going up and down, 84-77. sometimes rapidly--in either direc­Louisville, 18-3 after beating tion. Irish overlooked Providence 68-64 and Southwest­
Going up in this week's Associat­ern Louisiana 103-82 and losing to ed Press po!l were such teams as Nevada-Las Vegas, dropped from Kentucky, Alabama, Nevada-Las in top 20 No. 6 to eighth. 
Vegas and Detroit. Marquette, 16-3, lost to Cincin­
Included among those traveling nati 63-62 and then beat Chicago the opposite way were UCLA, The Top Twenty teams in the Loyola 81-71 and Manhattan 86-60 Wake Forest, Louisvil' and !vfinn­Associated Press college basketball to remain No.9. esota. poll, with first-place votes in paren­Cincinnati, 18-3, upset Mar­
San Francisco, 25-0, defeated theses, season records and total quette and then beat Eastern Nevada-Reno 92,76 and St. Mary's, points. Points are based on 20-18-Kentucky 78-60 and Georgia Tech Calif., 99-82 to remain atop the Top 16-14-12-10-9-8-7-6-5-4-3-2-1: 84-73 to move up two spots from 20 with an aggregate of 1,006 No. 12 t<> lOth. points. The Dons received 48 of a 1. San Fran (48) 25-0 1.006 Arkansas, now 22-1, heath Tu­possible 51 first-place votes from a 2. Kentucky (1) 18-2 846 lane, Baylor and Rice to jump from nationwide panel of sports writers 3. UCLA )2) 19-3 663 13th to 11th. and sportscasters. 4. Alabam11 19-2 530 Minnesota, 18-2, lost to Michi­
Neither Kentucky nor UCLA 5. Michigan 18-3 482 gan before defeating Ohio State rode very far on this week's 6. Nev-LV 20-2 464 and Iowa and fell from eighth to 
elevator. The Wildcats from the 7. Wake Forest 19-3 437 12th. Bluegrass State and the West 8. Louisville 18-3 421 North Carolina, 17-4,1 defeated Coast Bruins exchanged places, 9. Marquette 16-3 349 Maryland and Tulane to advance a Kentucky rising from third to 10. Cincinnati 18-3 316 notch from 14th to 13th. Tennes­second and UCLA slipping to third 11. Arkansas 22-1 303 see, 17-4, lost to Florida and beat from the runner-up spot. Kentucky 12. Minnesota 18-2 302 Lousiana State and slipped from got one of the three remaining 13. N. Carolina 17-4 207 11th to 14th. first-place votes and a total of 846 14. Tennessee 17-4 181 Detroit, 19th a week ago. beat St. points. UCLA received the others 15. Detroit 20-1 88 Bonaventure and Wayne State to and 663 points. 16. Providence 20:3 84 improve its record to 20-1 and leap 
The Wildcats, 18-2, beat Florida 17. Arizona 18-3 67 up to 15th. 1 State 97-57 and Auburn 89-82, last 18. Clemson 18-4 36 Rounding out this week's poll week, while UCLA, 19-3, beat 19. VMl 21-1 24 were Providence, Arizona. Clem­Washington State 65-62 but lost to 20. Syracuse 19-3 20 son. Virginia Military and Syra­Washington 78-73. cuse. 






