
The Observer 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's Vol. XI, No. 67 Thursday, january 27, 1977 
Cost too great 
Cable TV proposal rejected 
by Barbara Breitenstein News Editor 

The Student Government propo­sal to install cable television (CATV) on campus has been set aside by University officials prim­arily due to . its high cost and possible distractive effects. 
In a letter to Student Body President Mike Gassman, Fr. Theodore Hesburgh. University president. explained that the deci­sion was made because the Univer­sity does not have enough funds to finance the project at this time. However. he indicated the .idea is still open for consideration. 
"We generally agreed it was a good idea ... Hesburgh stated yes­terday. "but the cost is too great at this time." 
INDIANAPOUS AP -Most of Indiana ground to a halt yesterday as an afternoon blizzard with winds gusting up to 42 miles per hour swept across the state. 
The high winds kept Gov. Otis R. Bowen from attending a Merril­lville Chamber of Commerce din­ner. Officials said drifting snow made it impossible for Bowen's :-Jane to land. 
By mid afternoon state police were urging citizens to stay off the roads because blowing snow was drifting thoroughfares shut faster than highway department crews could clear them. 
By early evening northwestern portions of Interstate 65, I-80, U.S. 31, U.S. 41, and U.S.136 were closed as visibility fell to near zero in some sections. 
Schools and government offices in Lake and Newton counties were closed by noon after the storm moved into northwestern INdiana. Weather officials issued a travelers advisory for all of Indiana yester­day night and predicted two to four inches of new snow in the north­west corner of the state. 
In one section of central Indiana, 

Hesburgh also noted that the presence of CATV on campus might be disruptive to study habits and would detract from the ''per­sonal'' atmosphere at Notre Dame. He explained that the University prides itself on the personal rela­tionships between students and faculty and added that broadcas­ting classes on cable TV would destroy that atmosphere. 
Gassman will reply to Hes­burgh' s letter, and present it to the University president this week. Gassman's letter will stress the system's benefits to the University and will explain the system more clearly. 
"I'm sorry to see that he (Fr. Hesburgh) was opposed to it," Gassman said. "We didn't define the advantages and the system well 
including Wabash county and por­tions of Grant, Huntington and Miami counties, state highway officials admitted defeat to the high winds about 6:30 p.m. Officials closed roads in the area and ordered all state equipment back to the garage. 
The National Guard Armory in Rensselaer was opened to stranded motorists and students from rural 
Jasper County. 
State police posts around the state reported a rash of accidents, including a seven-car pileup that injured at least two persons on U.S. 31 north of Indianapolis in Hamil­ton County. 
They said many highways were littered with trucks and cars that were mired in drifts. 
Weather officials predicted winds would decrease \0 arouna 15 miles per hour early Thursday morning, but temperatures also were expected to plunge. 
The extended outlook called for lows of 10 to 15 below zero being the low for Monday. Highs for the period won't reach above 10 on Saturday and Sunday with a high of 20 expected Monday. 
enough. I guess." 
The proposal, which was origin­ally presented to the Student Life Council last November. calls for the installation of a "closed loop" CATV system. This type of system would cost approximately $500,000 and could broadcast both educa­tional and entertainment program­ming on a possible 28 channels with only one input from Valley Cablevision. 
CATV would provide certain advantages, according to the pro­posal, including the broadcast of educational programs such as class lectures, facilities for communica­tions studies in broadcasting. a closed circuit security system, bet­ter reception of both local and Chicago television stations, and usage by WSND as a license-free stereo station. 
"I don't think the entertainment 
part will outweigh the educational 
advantages," Gassman remarked. 
"And I don't think it will destroy 
the atmosphere of the University. 
The educational possibilities will 
far outshine the entertainment 
aspect." 
"I think the problem." Gassman 
continued, "is that you shouldn't 
look at the cost first. You should 
look at the advantages and then 
find ways to get the money for it." 
According to the proposal, the 
cost of ·the system could be 
absorbed in a yearly student fee of 
$5 to $10 plus an input fee of about 
one dollar per month for each 
student using the system. This 
assessment would pay the installa­
tion cost in about ten years. 
However, Hesburgh stated that 
this fee would be too much of an 
additional burden on parents al­
ready paying high educational 
costs. He also said the University 
has other expenses now which 
exclude the CATV project. 
"The proposal might have been 
slightly ahead of its time,'' explain­
ed Vice-President for Business 
Affairs Thomas J. Mason. "The 
biggest concern is cost. It is terribly 
expensive and we don't have the 
resources for it now." 
"The University is also commit­ted to personal contact of faculty with students" Mason continued. ''Anything that would detract from that would not be favorable. The drawback is in relation with the uniqueness of the campus. It would be a major change for a campus like 
ours," he said. 
Mason also commented on the 
possible disruptiveness of cable TV 
"Another concern is about whether 
there's a need for additional recre­
ational outlet along with other 
ac.dvities on campus." 
Mason agreed the system has 
potential, but that cable television 
on campus would have to wait until 
"things change and the cost comes 
down substantially. When the cost 
is low enough," he said, "then it 
can another item of priorities." 
"We're not saying an absolute 
no," Mason concluded. "It's just 
that we don't feel its time has 
arrived.'' 
Gassman. however, stressed the 
need for beginning the project now. 
"It is valuable in the present," he 
explained, "not in the future. The 
longer it is put off, the longer it will 
take to begin implementation and 
[Continued on page 7] 

Katie Kerwin Senior Staff Reporter 

A proposed Internal Revenue 
Service (IRS) regulation to tax tuition remission scholarships grwted to college professors by thEir schools has been stopped aft·~r strong opposition from the acc:.demic community. 
:rames Robinson, professor of English and president of the Notre Dame chapter of the American As:>ociation of University Profes­sors (AAUP), stated he received a letter from AAUP Director of Government Relations Alfred D. Sumberg informing him that the proposed regulations appear to be dead now. 
Ihe Commissioner of Internal Revenue announced at a hearing on Jan. 7 that he would not sign the proposed regulations, but would leave them to his successor for disposal. 
Tuition remission plans for facul­ty ~~hildren and spouses have been accepted as nontaxable by the IRS and Congress since 1954. The 
proposed change would have rede­fin,~d these scholarships as a taxable compensation. Tuition benefits. because they are awarded sol ~ly on the grounds of where the parent is employed. are a form of fringe benefit, the IRS proposal declared. 
The proposal was expected to 
have the most serious impact on 
private colleges, which rely on the 
tuil:ion waiver plan to attract faculty 
members at salaries much lower 
than what they could earn else­
where the AAUP reported. 
In a letter to the IRS commis­
sioner last December, the Notre 
Dame AAUP argued that tuition 
remission provides educational op­
portunities that benefit the stu­
dents involved and is not actually a 
cor~pensation for services rendered 
by the faculty members. Faculty 
members whose children are grant­
ed scholarships do not render any 
more services than other faculty 
members. 
The IRS proposal was also criti­
cized by the AAUP as being 
prejudicial to an isolated group, 
sin~e similar fringe benefits in 
other professions go untaxed. 
Airhne employees do'lot pay taxes on their free trips, department store employee discounts are not taxed and neither are reductions or waivers for legal or medical ser­vices rendered by one lawyer or doctor to another, claimed the National Educational Association in testimony presented to the IRS commissioner before the IRS hear­ings early this month. 
AA UP national officials attri­buted much of their success to vocal opposition from the academic community and effective "grass­roots" campaigns against the pro­posal. Opposition to the bill was presented by national organiza­tions of college administration and faculty, as well as by members of Congress. 
Those who worked to defeat the 
proposal were also concerned that 
the IRS was attempting to change 
Congressionally-accepted policy on 
its own. "You are changing policy, 
changing a matter of public policy, 
a change we feel inappropriate for 
an agency to make arbitrarily and 
independently of our elected repre­
sentatives in Congress.'' the Notre 
Dame AAUP chapter charged in its 
letter to the IRS commissioner. 
Aside from the direct detrimen­
tal effect upon professors and their 
children, the long-range implica­
tions of a change in the status of 
tuition remission plans troubled 
many educators at Notre Dame. 
"It's the ultimate effect on educa­
tion I worry about." Robinson 
stated in an Observer article on 
Dec. 8. "The more expanding of 
and tampering with the fundamen­
tal idea of what a scholarship is will 
affect those who receive scholar­
ships. To me. that's more impor­
tant than the fringe benefit idea." 
Robinson yesterday expressed 
relief that the proposal had not 
gone through. "I think it was 
important that this should be in 
effect stopped," he said. adding 
that he did not think the IRS should 
tamper with Congressionally­
defined concepts. 
A change in the accepted defini­tion of this particular type of scholarship would have left the door open for possible changes in the definitions of other types of scholarships, Robinson explained. 


the ohserv'er Thursday, january 27, 1977 
,....__On Campus Toda!J'­
10:30 am-sign-ups, Iafortune billiards tournament, Iafortune 11 pm poolroom. 
computer course, "fortran," computing cen­ter/math bldg., room 115 
3:30pm­

7 pm-. meeting, photography club, O'shaughnessy hall, room 114 
8 pm-concert, indiana university chamber singers, little theater 
meeting, nd-smc council for retarded, newcomers welcome, lib, auditorium 
8:15pm­

9 pm-nazz event, david shaheen, nazz 11 pm­wsnd 640 am, the album hour features anthony
midnight­

phillips, ··the geese and the ghost" 
Pedtke memorial founded by former Glee Clubbers 
b,· Cathv Nolan Senfor Staff Reporter 
Daniel H. "Dean" Pedtke, for­mer Glee Club director. died Dec. 
12. 1976 in his South Bend home. Pedtke. associate professor emeri­tus of music. was a member of Notre Dame's faculty since 1936. 
Pedtke. age 70. served as direc­tor of the Notre Dame Glee Club from 1938 to 1973. He had planned to retire in May. 1973 following the club's final concert. He suffered a stroke and a heart attack early in May of that year and was unable to perform at the concert. 
Pedtke also acted as music department chairman at Notre Dame from 1937 to 1955. Before coming to Notre Dame. Pedtke headed the music department at the College of St. Theresa in Winona. Minnesota. 
Pedtke. director. musician. com­poser and professor of organ music. organized "The Singing Irish" at Notre Dame. He accom­panied the Glee Club on tours to . every major American city and to several foreign cities for 35 years. Once honored as a Fellow in the American Guild of Organists. Pedtke also composed the well­Jtono\\n song. "Notre Dame. We Hail Thee." He wrote a music textbook. Keyboard Harmony.
r*The Observerl 
Night Editor: Joe Bauer Asst. Night Editor: Leigh Tun­akan, Steve Odland layout Staff: Tom Byrne, Tim O'Reiley Editorial layout: Drew Bauer Sports layout: Win Palmer, Ray O'Brien Typists: Mel Celeste, Kathy Egbert, Martha Fanning, Gwen Coleman 
E.M.T. Morey Blinder Day Editor: Marian Ulicny Copy Reader: Barb Langhenry Ad layout: Pat Russell 
lPhotographer: DPbbie KrilichJ 
Uhe WinOjammer 
CREATIVE HAIR DESIGN 
FOR THE SEXES 
RElAXING ATMOSPHERE 

FREE HAIR ANALYSIS RK RETAH.. CENTER 
1637 LWW 
So. Bend 
232-6622 
Appt. only. 


"Even after he retired as direc­tor. he remained in close contact with the members of the Glee Club," Dr. David Isele. Glee Club director, commented. "every fall. Dean Pedtke would invite the students to his house for a glee club football game and get-together. The newer members of the club never worked with Dean Pedtke, but they certainly respected him," Isele added. 
A memorial music foundation in Pedtke's name is being estab­lished. according to Isele. The foundation is being organized pri­vately by former Glee Club mem­bers. The Glee Club. Isele said, is also planning a memorial service for Pedtke to be held at the annual Glee Club reunion next fall. 
Pedtkc is survived bv his wife Helen. four daughters ·and three sons. 
ERRATUM 

Ticket packets for Junior Par­ents' Weekend were not mailed to parents as was reported in yester­day's Observer. An information packet containing a request form for tickets was distributed. Anyone not receiving an information packet should contact Nan Bufalino, org­anizer for the weekend, at 6780. 
1ht· Ob"'nt'r" publ"h"d ,V\onddy 
through I nd.1v dlld Wt't·~l\ dunn~ th" 'umnH"r "''"on. t'X( t>pt durmg th•· t'\dnl .1nd va• dt1on pt•noci~ Thf• Qh,PrVPr "put.l1~heci by o,tudt>nh ot thf' L•mvPr"t\ of Nntrt• DamP and St Maryo, Colltegl' Suh~rnpt1on~ ma~ bt' purch.1wd tor $20 per year ($10 pt•r ~t·mpo,ter) trom ThP Obo,pr­ver, Box Q. Notn• Uarnt•. lnd1ana 465Sb St>wnci tla" pmtagt• pa1d, Notre DamP, lnci1ana 4bSS6 
ThP Ob~Prver 1~ a membpr of the A~~ouatPd Pn·~-; All rPproduct1on nght~ art' n•-;prvPci 
Your Source for the Unusual in Diamonds and Precious Gems Platinum and Gold Jewelry 
You'll find untold treasures of the finest quality brought to you by the eye of an expert.* And sold with the care of a professional.* 

Insurance arpraisals and purchases of fine diamonds and estate jewelry provided. 
'Graduate Gemologist: Gemological Institute of America 'Fellow Gemmologist Gemmological Association of Great Britain 

C0£amond 9mpo~t Company 
Your Source for the Unusual 
Howard forum plans events 
by Gerry Delgado our life where we'll be living with 
all our friends and we should make 

Howard Hall held a staff leader­the most of it," Bogan related. ship forum Saturday, Jan. 15 to The forum seemed to give the Monday, Jan. 17 to discuss staff 
ball staff of Howard a new aware­roles and to plan hall events. ness oftheir obligations and impor­Fr. Gene Gorski, Howard's rec­&nce to the hall community, ac­tor explained the two main pur­c8rding to Bogan. "Everyone who 
poses of the forum. First, he said, was at the forum (over 35 resi­it was to ''help deepen awareness dents) really took time to evaluate of the nature and importance of their roles and responsibilities in leadership roles in Howard and the hall structure, even the section 
secondly, to make plans for the hall leaders," Bogan said. "We would activities for the spring semester." like to look on the section leader not The forum started out as an idea so much as a messenger from the of Gorski's, according to Chris section to the hall council, as it has 
Bogan, Howard's president and 1----------------------------, 
was organized by Gorski and Mary 
Claire McCabe, director of student 
and staff development at Student 
Affairs. 
Bogan stated that the main thrust behind the forum was to define the roles of the R.A.'s and the hall staff to get a better idea of their purpose and responsibility to Howard. "One of the things we were ranked low on in our annual survey," Bogan said, "was innova­tion. We're now working for an increase in support and community spirit, with an emphasis on public friendship among members of the hall." 
According to Bogan, Howard has six different commissions, on which about 20 residents take part altogether. The Academic-Cultural Commission, says Bogan, "has come away from just administering the test file," taking charge in bringing speakers such as Digger Phelps and Rick Wohlhuter to Howard. Community Services and the Religious Commission also have a new-found importance in the hall. The Athletic Commission has taken charge of setting up an intra-hall putting tournament, at­tracting over a third of the Howard residents, and is busy planning "war games" between the various sections of Howard. Howard's other commissions are the Social Commission and the Hall Improve­ments Commission. 
Bogan stresses that the goal of the various activities is mainly to get the residents of Howard out to meet each other. "We have to realize that this is the only time in 
All Observer 
reporters to meet 
There will be a meeting for all Observer reporters and anyone who wishes to start writing for the Observer Thursday night at 7 p.m. in the f)bserver office on the third floor of Lafortune. The purpose of this meeting is to organize for second semester and to discuss the reorganization of the news depart­
ment.

This will be a mandatory meeting for all old reporters and any new reporters are welcome. Anyone who will be unable to attend the meeting should contact Bob Mader at 7471. 
The Notre Dame-Saint Mary's Theatre 
in cooperation with the 
Saint Mary's Performing Arts Series 
presents 
THE SAN QUENTIN DRAMA WORKSHOP 
in Samuel Beckett's 
Waiting For Godot 
One Performance Only 
Sunday, January 30, 1977 8:00 O'Laughlin Auditorium Admission $3.00 (Students $2.00) 
ih£ £nhmia:l 
Fanrake Hous£ 
OUR SPECIALTY 
OVEN-BAKED 
APPLE PANCAKES
***SPECIAL*** 
ONLY $1.99 re:1. $2.47 
US 31 (Dixieway North) in RosP.Iand (Across from Holiday Inn) Good Thru 2-2-77 

The Senior bar presents tonight 
ANHEUSER-BUSCH NIGHT 
8-2 

pedal prices on all Anheuser Busch beers!! 
14 oz. Bud, Busch and Strohs $.30 
14 oz. Michelob $.40 

FREE DOOR PRIZES RAFFLED 2 Michelob Beer Mirrors 
($75 value)
Many Beer Signs, Jackets, Also: we now sell pizza and submarine sandwiches! 

.._________.......;..:...!:..=::.::..=-::.::.....::..::.=.:..:.:::::...:..:..:.:._::::_:::.:._:,:..=..:.:.:..:__ _J 
TEXAS INSTRUMENTS 
SR-56 
SR-52 
$89.50 $188.50 
(Texas residents only add sales tax.) Coupon for 2 free program libraries with each machine. 

AC/DC Adaptor 1 yr. Tl warranty 
-c'ALL"ToLL' ffiE'E(aoo)52~oo50, -;t"2'022­
Mastercharge/BAC # ---------------­Expiration date-----------------­SOLID STATE P.O. Box 4 7325 Dallas, Tex. 7524 7 (Please add $3.00 handling charge) 

been in the past, but almost as a junior R.A. One of the major responsibilities of all the hall staff will be an effort to get to know everyone in the hall." 
Through the forum, Howard has been able to plan a full semester of events and activities for its resi­dents with such varying attractions as a possible Beethoven commem­orative festival in march to section war games to baseball trips to Chicago. Other halls interested in setting up such a leadership forum should contact Mary Claire McCabe in Student Affairs at 8411. 

Thursday, January 27, 1977 the observer 
3 

Laundroma1: location is tentative 

-~---~---------­
The laundromat for male stu­dents will most likely be located on the first floor of Badin Hall, according to the Assistant Vice President for Bossiness Affairs, Bro. Kieran Ryan. 
The Badin location has not been finalized, however, and Ryan and Vice president for Student Affairs Bro. Just Paczesny, are still looking for other locations. Ryan, who is responsible for the operation of the Ia undry service cited the lack of available space on campus as the reason the decision has been delayed. 
If the Badin location is used, the current tenants of the first floor must be relocated, and another building must be renovated for their use, according to Thomas Mason, vice-president for Business 
Wilson intern applications open 
{ 

Students enrolled in the Univer­
t~ ~A" 

1 . ,
And they ~ay the North Pole is cold!!! (photo by Debbie Krilich) s1ty of Notre Dame s graduate
· b · d · . . 
program m usmess a mmistratlon 
Administrative Internship, accord" ing to Dr. Francis A. Yeandel,
Woman researcher speaks assistant dean. 
by Honey McHugh 

Elizabeth Tidball. noted re­searcher of college women in 
America.  will  be  the  featured  
speaker  at  St.  Mary's  College's  
commencement in May.  

Tidball has researched and writ­ten about post graduate achieve­ment of women from single-sex colleges. She is a native of Indiana and is currently a professor of physiology at the George Washing­ton University Medical Center. 
Tidball's studies comparing women from coeducational institu­tions with those from all-women colleges have been published in the latest Carnegie report, and emp­hasize the correlation between the number of women on a college faculty with the number of excep­tional achievers from that institu­tion. 
"'As a women's college whose faculty is 53o/o female. we are pleased with her decision to deliver our commencement address this year." stated St. Mary's College President John M. Duggan. "In this era of pervasive coeducation." he continued. "Elizabeth Tid­ball's research is reassuring to those of us who believe in the aims of women's education." 
The selection process began in April last year when a poll was concerned with teaching. as well as 
sleep 
. 
cheap! 
Elkhart I-80-90 at S.R. 19 (219) 262-3691
.....__.. 
Spotless housekeeping, quiet construction, X-Iong double beds, wall-to-wall shag carpeting, Color T\1, direct dial telephone, full bath, at-your­door parking, individually controlled heating and air conditioning. 
Single $10.95-$11.95/Double $13.95-$15.95 
• • 0 o 0. 0 0 0. 0 't 0.0. 0 I. 0 0 o o'<o 
Potential interns are recruited 
at the nation's leading graduate research. She served on the schools of business to serve as faculties of George Washington assistants to presidents, budget University and Wellesley College. officers or development personnel. Along with her many honorary They are generally placed in tradi­degrees, Tidball has received rec­tionally black or Applachian col­ognition for her 60 publications leges for a period of two years in dealing with the role education length and salaries range from plays in a woman's life. Through $12,000 to $19,000 depending on her research at the National Acad­the intern's talents and the finan­
emy of Science's Commission on cial resources of the participating ~~~~~~~~~~~~!f!~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
[Continued to page Sj 

college. 
Reps to choose director 
by Marti Hogan St. Mary's Editor 

A special committee, composed of four faculty members and seven students has been formed to search for a St. Mary's Athletic Director to supervise the Athletic Center next fall. The position will be included in the Department of Student Affairs. 
·'The committee is weighted with sophomores and juniors since they'll be the ones working with the new director." Stevie Wernig, assistant dean of Student Affairs, stated. 
The faculty members of the committee include Wernig. Kath­leen Rice, dean of Student Affairs; Mary Lou Thompson, St. Mary's physical education instructor; and Tom Kelly. head baseball coach at 
Notre Dame, who was also a 
Affairs. "We're half settled on B.1din, mostly by default," said Mason. 
Kyan mdicated that a residence hall could not be used for the facility since it would have to be open 24 hours, posing security and privacy problems in a dorm. 
The proposed location of the machines in the vacant laundry pickup area in the basement of Keenan and the basement of LaFortune were ruled out as possi­bilities because they were below gmund, said Mike Gassman, stu­dent body president. He added that space will not be available in St. Michael's laundry for more than a year, so that area was eliminated from consideration. 
Once the final location of the laundry is determined work will begin on the installation of the plumbing, sewer lines, and 220 volt electrical lines. The washers and dryers can be installed immediately once this is completed, said Mason. "There will be no substantial 
delay·" he promised.
The same Whirlpool franchise 
th t · d th h d
a msta11e e was ers an 
...._.. 
dryers in the women's dorms will most likely be contracted for the work, Mason stated. 
Further details will be available in the Observer after the decision on the location is finalized. 
need resumes in a hurry? 
~ 
•
•nsly·pr•nls• 
the wiz of the print~ biz! 
rag bond 25-8 1/2 X 11 $2.55 203 N. Mam SoBend 289-697 7 




may apply for a Woodrow Wilson ,......~~~~~~t~_...."~~llllltl 

(an hour or two a week) , it would be greatly appreciated.
i • 
• Here is what we need : 
-Campus Dance Sto1ff  -An Arkie  
-Nazz Stazz •••••••••••••••••••  -Artists  

• • " • t.• ............. "11 .... \ .. " .. •.·. _. _._,_..• 
' 
...... 
i •
-General Staff 
-Nazz Host or Hostess • -Comedians -Other Creative Peopl 

*The Observer 
anindependentstudentnewspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's 
The Observer~~ publ1~hed by studenh ot the Un1versity ot 'ntn• D.1nH• and ~~ Man·~ College It doe'> not nfC'CIC'SSanly rt>llt•t t tht• pol1t IP~ ot t'lther ln'>tltutlon Tht> nP\\'> 1~ r!2'port!2'd ,t, .t<tur.Jit'l\ c~nd a~ ohwrt11t>l\ as po'>slblt> Eclitonals n·pn·"·nt tlw op1n1on ot a maJontv of the Ed1tnnal Board l·omnwnt.tnt''· op1n1on~ and lt·tter-. art> the v•el\'> of the1r .wth<tr., Culumn -.pan• " d\adable to all membt•r-. of thP 'tJilllllllllll\ .•tnd lt>tter-. drt' Pmouragt>d to promotP thP tree '''Jlrt'''•ltH1 nt \dr\ mg op1n1tH1~ on rampu~ 
Hu•>~nt>'>' ,\llan,u.wr l om I rof1( 1 a!.. -\d\t>rli'>lng ,\.1,m,H(t•r ,\111-.t> Mdlt•r -Photo E d1tor Torn Clllt.Jrl l'r<Hiu< t1on ,\.1.Jnagt>r .\1.~rth.1 L I dr1111ng 
Thursday, january 27, 1977 

Box Q, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 Phones: (219) 283-8661 [ND] (219) 284-5365 [SMC} 
EDITORIAL BOARD Thoma-. O'Nt>d Ed1tor-rn-Chief Dan Sancht>1 Managrng Editor Chn~ Sn11th · Asst Managrng Ed 
Gregg B.Jng'> Ex12'cut1ve Editor Val Zurbl1-. Execut1vt> l::d1tor Pdt Han1t1n Ed1tonal Editor Bob Madt•r 1:: xer New~ E drtor 
MaurPPn I lvnn Campus Editqr Marti Hog,tn St Mary's Ed1tor Don Rt>lll1t'r Cop\ Editor·· ·• ·~ T1111 ()' Rt>dt'\ I t•.Jture'> Fdit6r 1n·d H•·rh~t Sporh Fd1tor \ 
Pardon and ND 
Pre.;;ident Carter's pardon of the Viet­nc.m-era draft resisters and evaders is a noble step toward reuniting the country after the divisive disaster in Vietnam. It is also an action in which Notre Dame, especially Fr. Hesburgh, played a major role . ... Opinion about the war is still as divided as it is deeply held; this will be the case for years. But differing beliefs about the rightness or wrongness of the war need not lead to differing beliefs about the correct­ness of the pardon. 
It is either an act of justice or of mercy. If the first, it is long overdue. If the second, America is certainly big enough to be magnanimous towards those who especi­ally suffered, for whatever reason, from a national disaster. 
Carter follows and expands upon pardon precedents set after other wars by Presi­dents lincoln, Andrew Johnson, Harding, Coolidge (hardly a flaming radical), Roose­velt and Truman. Even the Confederate soldiers--who were technically guilty of the treasonous act of "levying war against the United States"--were pardoned or not piT'secuted in the interests of re-uniting the nation "with malice toward none, with charity towards all." Fr. Hesburgh deserves great credit for his role in Ca·i.er's pardon. He served on President :-oro's Clemency Board but thought that program insufficient, so he set up a study here at Notre Dame of the amnesty problem. 'fhe study was headed by Lawrence Baskir and William Straus who had worked with him on the Clemency Board. Baskir and Straus worked closely with the Notre Dame Civil Rights Center and made use of N.D. survey and computer facilities. 
Hesburgh personally delivered the re­sults of the extensive study to Carter last November. According to Hesburgh, the Notre Dame study "conditioned" the President-elect's decision. Carter's action last week was in accord with about 90 percent of the recommendations regarding civilians (He did not go along with suggestions to pardon deserters or civil­ians who had committed acts of civil disobedience in protest against the war.) 
Whether or not Carter extends his pardon after further study, any official amnesty can at best be only be one step toward putting Vietnam behind us. As the Notre Dame study notes, real reconcilia­tion depends on the compassion of the American people toward both those who ran afoul of the law and those veterans who served their country in Vietnam. It is time to move on. 
P.O. Box Q 
Real concerns 
of fasting 
Dear Editor: 

As much as we appreciate Tues­day's (Jan. 25) editorial supporting our Wednesday night fasting pro­gram we must· respectively disa­gree with the claim that was made iu that editorial that it is the money raising that is of primary impor­tance in regard to the fasting. 
Without a doubt, th~-main purpose of this fasting is to provide an opportunity for Notre Dame students to experience some kind of a feeling of solidarity with the poor and the hungry throughout the world. We are trying to engender a genuine concern on campus for those less fortunate than ourselves; a concern which goes far beyond financial contribu­tions ar:d cannot be measured in terms of dollars and cents. 
Further. we as students should realize that the good which the relatively small amount of money raised through fasting can do can be wiped out many times over by a single policy initiative or non-initia­tive on the part of the government of the United States (e.g., present lack of 1.; .J. participation in a world foi!J reserve system.). 
DOONESBURY by Garry Trudeau 
A ~I{J a!O&JS A80UT CR.YING. PACT:CR.YING15N£WS. NO 111 M.tm&R. tiiHAT 7H£ STOR.Y, It= 
~ Y(J(JR. SIJ8J£CT CR.JES, YOtfV& i : I GOT YO/JR. L£AO.' 
KtJ/)(}5, 700, FOR. 7H£ COIJ/!JJWM ClllSl­tJP5 OF aAUOIN£3 lON6£3T; Tl-l£3 WAlTeRS' "!JIO YOU CRY?''INTEl!. VIEW 
WITH P/?£5/0ENT fORO; J.1NO CPHRIJN's 5tJP&RB COVEJ?Aet OF 6Wr<JA ST!31N£M 
BR£AK!NG OOWN IN ,.;:,-;9 / MIAMI I ~ 
~ C· _,_ Sl
··Y.................. ~s? T.R
' ~, li'~­
' ' l1t~~ 
I id~ ~ '-~ 

opinion~~~~~~~~~ 
Phonebilliunkie 

iiiiij,iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii john zygmant 
Clearly, as students at. Notre system which does work. All we Dame. we must develop an aware­require is the help of ~he stt~:dents. ness of the fact that real concern for This is what Mr. Btxby dtd and world hunger and world poverty so I would like to thank him for his must be rooted in the idea of kind words a'nd support, as well as changing unjust economic and the entire freshman class. We 
political structures which serve to appreciate your help. keep the majority of the people in this world poor and hungry. AndyBaan 
Flanner Hall Representative Freshman Advisory t.:ouncU
Michael Bowler Co-ordinator, Notre Dame-St. Mary's World Hunger Coalition 
Freshman cor credit 
Dear Editor: 

In your last issue of the Observer 
of 1976, there appeared a letter 
written by Roy Bixby stating that I 
was responsible for the work done 
to allow freshmen to have cars on 
campus starting this semester. 

I would like to point out that this was the work of the entire Fresh­men Advisory Council. We, as a council, work at trying to get the opinions of the freshmen we repre­sent and then find ways of making their ideas a reality. The issue of the cars is just one example of how we can be successful at what we do. 
There are other unpublisized examples of how we do not succeed. However we do employ a method of working within the , \The following is the transcript ot 


a public affairs program recently · aired on WSND Radio. 
Title: "I WAS A TEENAGE 
PHONEBILLJUNKIE'" 
Announcer: The pathetic man 
you're about t0 hear is not an actor. 
He is an authentic trained neurotic. 
Student X: How does it begin? 
How does it begin for anyone? 
You're lonely ... first time away 
from home...Friday night and 
there's no one to talk to...and there 
over in the corner it sits. You've 
seen other people do it. 
I started out doing it just once, maybe twice a week...not very long ones, just a couple minutes. But then things went bad. I messed up a couple tests, my girlfriend left me, I was lonely. It was my first time away from home and ... l needed somebody. somebody to talk to. So I started calling more ... "Just a quick one,'" I would say,· ''to pep me up and help me study.'' Why didn't somebody stop me? 
I went crazy. I called everybody! Parents, relatives, friends, people I hadn't seen in years. My fifth grade teacher, her fifth grade 
teacher...the  weather  service  in  
Anchorage...  
Finally  my  roommate  tried  to  

help me. "Look," he said, "Sure maybe now it's just phone calls but you know you're going on to the harder stuff. Pretty soon it'll be telegrams or candygrams, who knows where it will stop!" 

Bl.tt It was too late, I was hooked... Excuse the pun. 
My habit was running a hundred .. .a hundred and fifty a month. I couldn't pay that...The phone com­
. pany wanted money! What could I tell them? 
Well, my roommate saw what it was doing to me...my habit. And finally. one day while I was gone. he took the telephone and flushed it all down the toilet. When I came back we fought. we had an argu­ment. I said I was leaving ... I left all my stuff except a bag of dimes and went to sleep in a phone booth. 
That nights. the worst night of my life. I tried to get to sleep and this clown kept calling the phone booth asking for Laura! I would tell him 'Tm not Laura! You got the wrong number!.. But he kept calling! And calling! I"ll never forget that ringing! 
Well. that did it. That morning I saw the light. I saw clearly what I had done, what a shables my life was... How immoral all those phone calls to Anchorage were ... 
There was nothing to do except commit myself to a post office. They helped me there. They got me started on postcards. Then let­ters... even got me a penpal. 
Now I"m straight. I won't even pick up a telephone. And I think I"m going to make it. .. I'm going 
back to school next semester and it's going to be hard but I"m going to make it ... I've got to. 
----------------------~---~----------~-------­
Thursday, january 27, 1977 the observer 
5 

Senior Class Fellow nominees list finalized 
by Val Zurblls Executive Editor 

The list of Senior Class Fellow nominees was changed at Tuesday night's Senior Fellow Forum held in Hayes-Healy. 
Added to the list were Rev. Jesse Jackson, director of Operation PUSH and civil rights activist and Bob Dylan, folk singer and poet. Deleted from the list were Ronald Reagan, former govenor of Calif­ornia and Red Smith, first Pulitzer Prize-winning sportswriter on the New York Times and ND graduate. 
The rest of the 19 niminees for the finalized list are Eric Severeid, Bob Woodward and Carl Bernstein, Woody Allen, Bob Hope, Barbara Jordan, Art Buchwald, Muhammed Ali. Garrv Trudeau, Kurt Von­negut. H~nry Kissenger, Beverly Sills. Gerald Ford, Jerry Brown, Walter Cronkite, Jerrylewis, John Wayne. Alexander Solzenitzin. Edward Kennedy. and Bill Cosby. 
Following is the first part of a three part story describing each nom­inee 
Bob Hope began his career in vaudeville, has been on stage. scree. radio and television and has written books. He entertained over­seas for the armed service forces from 1945 to 1971 and received the Navy's highest civilian honor, the Distinguished Public Servico Award for "conspicious genet osity" in entertaining American servicemen. In 1968 he received the Variety Clubs International Humanitarian award and was hon­ored for his work with the blind and efforts toward conservation of sight. He received the Peabody award in 1968 in recognition of three decades in broadcasting and was honored "Comedian of the Century" by a group of college entertainment arrangers. 
Jesse Jackson is a black Ameri­can civil rights leader and a Baptist minister. He is currently director of People United to Save Humanity (PUSH), an organization devoted to gaining economic power for blacks. He served as director of Operation Breadbasket, the economic arm of the southern Christian Leadership Conference, from 1966 to 1971. In 
The Fifth Annual Senior Wo­men's Dinner will be held on Thursday, Feb. 3 at the Center for Continuing Education, according to Dalene Palma, chairperson. 
The dinner will begin at 6 p.m. 
All senior women attending the University have been invited to attend. The dinner committee has also sent invitations to women members of the faculty. 
Carole Moore, assistant profes­
sor of history, will be the guest 
speaker for the evening. 
[Continued from page 3] Human Resources, she established the Committee on the Education and Employment of Women in Science and Engineering. 
"The officers are pleased," stat­ed Senior class president Cindy Callahan, "And we're sure the class will be satisfied because Tidball was one of their choices. We're looking forward to having her speak." conducted among the members of the class of 1977. From the number of suggested speakers, a list was submitted to the Academic Affairs Council and ten names were chosen for the students to consider. Their vote indicated a strong preference for Tidball, who has accepted the invitation to speak. 
Tidball received her under­graduate degree from Mt. Holyoke College and went on to complete her graduate work in phys­iology at the University of Wiscon­sin-Madison. 
Her career since then has ben will be contacted to see if he can 
the list will be contacted and so on come to Notre Dame for a weekend until someone agrees to come. of activites in the spring. If he For further information, call Ron cannot make it, the next name on Hathaway (8288). 
TONIGHT-7:00-9:30p.m. Fri. 2 :30 -5 :15 -9:50 p.m. Sat., Sun. 2 :00 · 4:30 -7:00 -9:4 
All South Bend is Climbing· Aboard for the 
Jc)yride of the life! 

SILVER STRERI-I 
Starring Gene Wilder Jill Clayburgh Richard Pryor Patrick McGoohaty 

Sorry ... No passes or reduced price tickets 
~ 
It's here 

Every year brings 
NOW!!!

A great movie..... This Time it's a GREAT GANGSTER MUSICA Run out and see this movie WOR Radio 



b_, Michael Lewis 

The harsh winter has made it difficult for student motorists who face the problems of stalled cars in show-covered parking lots. 
Arthur Pears. director· of secur­ity. said the security organizationb realizes these problems and tries to adjust to the situation. 
"We began to clear the parking lots before the students returned from Christmas break, and finallv spent roughly $4000 to remove the snow." Pears said. 
Pears requested that the stu~ dents try to park in <:n orderly fashion even though all markings have been covered by a thick layer of ice and show. 
Pears also spoke of the problem of a student's auto stalling in the wrong lot and occasionally result­ing in parking violations depend upon how long the car has been stalled in the lot. 
"If the car has been stalled in the \\Tong lot for a short period of time, \\T trv to understand the situation and take care of it." Pears stated. 
He also said that if the auto has 
been there for .. t\\·o or three days." 
it i~ the students own responsibility 
to move the car. The Notre Dame 
campus has no facilities where a 
student can receive mechanical 
help. 

A student can deposit his ID at the security office to borrow a set of jumper cables. However. as Pears noted, "We have only one set of cables. and there is a big demand. Students often wait in line to borrow them." A student must therefore rely on nearby service stations for assistance with stalled autos. 
Retarded council judges success 
The ND-SMC Council for the Retarded will be evaluating the success of its Saturday morning recreation program tonight at 8:15 in the Library Auditorium. Possi­ble changes in format and needs for greater flexibility will be discussed. 
The Council maintains a recrea­tion program at Logan Center every Saturday from 9-11:30 a.m. for both retarded children and adults. The program includes arts and crafts, singing, athletics and swimming. Special outings planned for this semester are the Ice Capades and a trip to the Chicago Museum. 
There are also programs for students to participate in during the week. 
Any studerts interested in wor­king with the retarded members of the South Bend community are strongly encouraged to attend to­night's meeting. 

nazz 
~1

~o~\G Dave Shaheen ( 9-12) ' Greg Mandolini 
TM aids in intellectual growth 
Coming FRIDAY _ __ 
NO Jazz Combo (9-12) BE THERE!! 
The Nazz will be open six nights a week, 8-12 Monday thru Thursday and 9-2 Friday and Saturday. The Nazz has been equipped with stereo equipment to provide continuous music courtesy of the Sound Room. . The Nazz features food, drinks, lively conversation and lots of mellow music. 
Future attractions--Feature Artist Nights Album Hours The 21 oo Club 

by Marian Ulicny Senior Staff Reporter 
An introduction to the Trans­cendental Meditation (TM) pro­gram was given Tuesday night in Howard Hall by Tom Shirah, a full-time instructor of TM. 
Shirah outlined the benefits of the TM program to approximately 40 students. "It's a completely natural process and very easy to practice," he stressed. "It's a scientific technique, not a religion, which doesn't require belief. There's· no need to change your lifestyle to practice TM." 
According to Shirah, TM is "not a flashy experience." He stated he was almost disappointed when first introduced to the method because the immediate effects were not spectacular. "The reason people practice TM is not for the meditat­ing experience, but for the in­creased energy and the increased ability to create energy,'' he added. 
TM allows the body to gain a state of deep rest by eliminating accumulated stress and strain, Shirah stated. "Mental activities slow down and allow the mind to be quiet. Then the body rests, and the mind becomes alert,'' he ex­plained. 
''Over 300 independent scientific studies on TM have been con­ducted with good results,'' Shirah stated. Studies conducted on brain-wave patterns indicate an increase in the efficiency and orderliness of mental activity. In addition, intelligence tests given to high school students in the Nether­lands resulted in significantly higher scores by those students practicing TM. 
"TM helps you grow in intelli­gence more than twice as fast as in one not practicing it,'' Shirah stated. "Learning ability in­creases, and academic perform­ance improves." 
Terry Gwynn memorial mass to be offered 
A memorial mass for senior 
· Terry Gwvnn will be offered Thurs­day ·at 10.:30 p.m. in Sacred heart Church for all members of the Notre Dame Communitv. A second memorial mass wil be offered by Father Robert Griffin in the Farle~· Hall chapel. Monday at II p.m. · The Gwvnn family ask that instead of flowers con-tributions to Logan Center be made in Terry's name in care of the campus ministry office. 

''Although we generally only use 10 to 15 percent of our mental capacity, we can and should use more," Shirah added. "With TM, you can begin to use more of your mind." 
According to Shirah, TM also offers various physical benefits. Practicing the system rests the heart, provides a quicker recovery from such illnesses as strokes, helps normalize blood pressure and reduces oxygen consumption. Athletes using TM experience greater physical control and higher levels of performance, he added. 
"TM is valuable because of its practical aspects," Shirah stressed. "It develops the full potential of an individual, allowing what's in us to come out. Everyone has days when they feel really good and rested, but then there are other days that aren't so good. Why not feel great all the time?" 
Shirah stated TM can be called "the scientific basis for world peace." A sociological trend study in 500 cities showed that crime, sickness and accident rates de­creased when one percent of the city's population practiced TM. "With just one percent involved, negative tendencies decreased,'' Shirah noted. "TM affects the environment. You can't have a peaceful world without peaceful individuals. You can legislate for world peace for hundreds of years, but that doesn't necessarily work." 
Rob Carsello, a Notre Dame law student, provided a student's point of view on TM. "The point of TM is that you won't have reasonless anxiety which prevents you from acting in a normal way," he explained. "If you have a de­creased anxiety level, it won't be a burden to you to give someone a helping hand." 
"The effect of the TM program is not instant," Carsello added. "It doesn't happen all at once, and you won't get the complete benefits tomorrow. The total effect is a long-range program designed for regular practice." 
The lecture concluded with an audio-visual presentation on ath­letes and their reasons for using TM. 
Shirah became involved with TM in 1972 as an undergraduate at North Texas State University. He completed a 10-month teacher training course in the United States and France and has been an instructor for one year. Currently, he is a team teacher at the TM Center in the Marycrest Building in South Bend. 
Carsello has practiced TM for four years and is the founder of the Notre Dame chapter of the Stu­dents' International Meditation Society. 



\-OCI(s, LIQUOR WOR\.0 

South Bend Ave. 277-3611 
6 -Packs 12 -Packs 
$1.68 $2.69 
Lite Blatz Miller Falstaff Old Style !Vodka $3~t. Gin $396..1 Kentucky Tavern $519 Bourbon at. 
Early Times $96 ~ 12Gal 
MacKintosh Scotch $549at. 
Canadian Mist 

In Urban Plunge program Thursday, january 27, 1977 the observer 
7 

ND students observe inner city problems 
by Drew J. Bauer StaffReporter 

Standing in food lines, riding in a police car through the worst section oftown, sleeping in houses without heat, visiting legal aid offices and touring prisons were some of the things students did as part of ''The Urban Plunge" program during Christmas break. 
One hundred-sixty students un­dertook the program in 60 cities across the country "to try and orient themselves with the urban experience that was happening to the poor in their own home towns,'' according to one of the organizers of the program, Peggy Roach. 
"I think that the students learned what it meant to live an experience. They have read in booksabouthowthepoorliveanda about the people who try to help them. I think that this program lets the student feel what the poor go through. They experience it by spending 48 hours in places that th~f are not use. to." . 
You see a stde of the ctty that you'~e never seen befo~e," said l'l:fananne _Murphy who h':ed out-s~de of Chtcag? and_ c~~e mto ~he ctty to spend ttme vtsttmg nursmg homes and senior citizens cente~s sponsored by the Cath~hc Church. "It was a very rewardmg experience. It is really a challenge
au there · h t do yet

bec se ts so muc o 
· th area of · 1 · t' The
m e socta JUS tee. 
eopl l·n ol ed 'th 1't great

P e v v wt are · 
But the get e h t d There l·s
Y x aus e · so much work to be done." "It will help me to see how I 
JOhn St~i~man entertained the crowd at the Nazz last night. Greg Mandolm1 and Dave Shaheen play tonight from 9 to 12. 
(photo by Debbie Krilich) 

Cable TV nixed 
[Continued from page I) the longer off are the benefits and development of the system." "I can understand why a big university has to be cost-oriented," he continued, "but there's a point when one can become to9 cost­oriented. This system opens a horizon which once open there's much more that could be done with it. No matter where they get the money, the parents have to pay for it eventually. I hate to see the idea die." ''I will never consider the matter closed," Gassman stated. 
Photo Club meets tonight 

The Notre Dame Photography Club welcomes new and old mem­bers this semester. Meetings will be today, Feb. 16, March 2, March 30, and April20. the agenda includes an exhibition and talk by advanced photography students, a kodalith demonst~;"ation, and meet­ing with portrait photographer Larry Cassel. The final meeting will be a group exhibition of 
members work. 
For further information call: Tim Krause (1182), Dave Lewis (1786), Sue Hart (6715), Pat Lennon or Bill Reifsteck (1209). 
The Photography Club will hold its first meeting of the semester on Thursday at 7p.m. in Room 114 of O'Shaughnessy Hall .. 
The decision to by-pass CATV at this time was made in December, a fter a discussion on the matter between all the university officers. Bro. Just Paczesny, vice-president for Student Affairs, would not comment on the decision, while other officials were not available for comment. 
NO Chorale performs Sunday 
The Notre Dame chorale will be featured in concert Sunday at 8:15 
p.m. in Washington Hall. Under the direction of Dr. David Clark Isele, they recently completed an eight day tour of the Northern Midwestern states. The Chorale will perform a wide variety of works ranging from Handel's Mes­siah to Broadway's Hit The Deck. Admission is Free. 
Pool tourney sign-ups 

Students interested in the LaFor­tune billiards tournament can sign up from 10';30 a.m. to 11 p.m. today through Monday in the poolroom. The tournament will begin Feb. 1 or 2 and run for about six weeks. There is no registration fee, but participants will pay for playing time. Trophies will be awarded to the first and second place winner:-. 
could use my work to help the people," said accounting student Bryan Mulroy, who spent his time in downtown Memphis. ''A lot of kids from Notre Dame live in the surburbs and are not exposed to the problems of the inner city and they should be awar~ ?fthe~. They would be better ctbzens tf they were." 
This is the third year for the "Urban Plunge" program founded by Fr. Don McNeil and operated in cooperation with the Catholic Com­munitv on Urban Ministry 
(CCUM). The students received one credit on a pass/fail system for completing the program, which consists of touring facilities of CCUM in several cities and attend· ing a series of introductory semi­
nars and debriefing meetings. The 
debriefing occurred last Monday 
night in the library auditorium. 
"There is no romance in the ghetto," said Fr. John Egan, chairman of CCUM at the meeting Monday night. "The ghetto is cruel, mean and unjust. We the people in the suburbs must join together to bring some peace and justice to these people." 
"The Urban Plunge was a call to action to you and to me. We must learn more so that we can solve the 
problems that face us. And I c~n only hope that next year we w~l
have over 500 students. But that ts up to you and more hard work,"
Egan continued. After Egan finished, the student 
leaders for each city presented the highlights of their plunges. After­
wards, they broke up into smaller parties at several faculty homes to continue discussion about their 
experiences.
"I didn't really know what to expect," said Professor Salvatore 
Bella. "But it was really fantastic. I was amazed how the students 
Classified Ads 
Notices 
FRESHMAN COLLOQUIUM . If you've sirmed up, a senior will be cal linn you this week. If you haven't sinned up, look for sirms in the halls announcinn information meetinns to be hald this week and this we~kend. Get involved! 
Greyhound bus to Chicano. Leaves main circle every Friday a·t 5:45 p.m. Call Tom at 8338 for reservations and further info. 
Anyone interested in volunteerinrt at Logan Center please come to -NO Library Aud. Thurs. 8:15. Any questions · Sue -277.1182. 
USED BOOKS BOOK BARN 1 mile north of Notre Dame. 272-5520. 
Is your life empty? Order the Chicano Tribune. Call 8670. 
Quality, Licensed Day Care -in­fants, one and two year olds. First United Methodist Day Care, Ind., 333 North Main St., SB. Mondays­Fridays, 6:30 a.m.-5 :30 p.m. Call 288-1168. 
Accurate, fast typinn. Mrs. Donoho. 232-0746. Hours: 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. 
TYPING $.35 a pane. Call Dan 272-5549. 
MORRISSEY LOAN FUND $20-150. 1 day wait. 1 percent interest. Due in 30 days. LaFortune Basement. M-F 11:15-12:15. 
Need typinn? Professional Typinn Service · Top Quality . Convenient Location. 232-0898. 
ATTENTION! CILA summer pro­jects are cominn. Applications may be picked up in the Volunteer Service Office in LaFortune. For further information call Mark at 233-3613 or Lee at 1504. 
ADULT EDUCATION CLASSES start Feb. 7 . Beninninn & advanced Sewinn. Knits, Tailorinn, Draperies and Home Accessories. FEE $7.50 ­12 weeks at one ninht per week. Renistration forms in Observer of. fice or phone: 288-1261, ADULT EDUCATION DEPT. South Bend Community Schools. 

YOU CAN STILL SIGN UP FOR THE WED. EVE. FAST BY CON­TACTING THE COLLECTORS OR VISITING THE STUDENT ACTIV­ITIES OFFICE .IN LAFORTUNE UNTIL FRIDAY. 
were so much aware, so very profound. We discussed that this is our community -the rich and the poor. Bridges must somehow be built between the two. This is what the social workers are working on." Law Professor Thomas Shaffer headed another group to discuss what the students learned. •'I think that this experience has made a sobering impact on the students," Shaffer said. "Before, they really didn't know a lot about the inner city, even in the cities that they live outside of like so many other Notre 
Dame students." 
"But I think that they have come out of this with some hope. A hope that there might be a solution to 
these problems," he concluded. 
Both Shaffer and Bella thought that the program should be ex­panded to areas outside of Catholic 
programs in the inner city. "This should not be just the cause of one religious order," Bella said. "We are all part of a community, and all religious orders should be invol­ved." Roach said that they would like to have the program visit other 
places next year. "By next year, other programs by different orders should be set up in the inner city and we would like to go to those." 
programs not sponsored by CCUM in Washin~on D.C. A group of citizens were trying to organize a grocery store in the inner city where 75 percent of the people didn't have cars and the nearest store was too far away to walk to. She also. w~nt._to the ~ETWORK office whtch ts a lobbytst for social justic~. It,was a_n er,e-opening expertence, she satd. But there is ~o much to be done, ~nd it's not gomg to be done overmght." 
"What is our payoff out of t~is? asked Egan on Monday mght. "Oh, I quess that it is hope that the torch will be carried on to the next
t' w · · 
genera ton. e are Just gettmg
t rt d w h
s a e · e ave a 1ong way to go
d I h h · ..
an ope t at we can contmue. 
N.D. Tae Kwon Do 
Club 
( Korean Karate ) 
Invites all old members 
and any interested beginners to work out with us this semester. 
M W d F 
on., e ·' ri., at 
ACC, 6 p.m. to 8 p.m. 
Call Mark -283-8316 or 
And . 287-6189 
Ellen Duffy visited one of the '--...:...;~:.s_--=:..:..:.....:...:..::...;.____ 

e • • • • e • • • • • • • • e e e • e e • • • • e • • • • • • • 
-TJMM PARTY STORE • .=.-OPEN·. .MON • SAT 1 :
9 am • 1 pme e SUNDAY 

• 12 noon -11 pm •• e• COLD BEER, PACKAGE UQUOR, •. 
e • 
• WINE, GOURMET FOODS • 
• S MICIDGAN • 
• 3114 S. 11 ST • NILE ' • 
• I' U 5 • 
• 1 Block North of state me on .. 31 • 
For Rent 
Need one housemate. Own bed­room, close to campus. $50 plus one third utilities. 287-2702. 
2 rooms $40 a month. 233-1329. 
Completely furnished houses rann. inrt from two to seven bedrooms av-ailable for summer or next Sept. ember. Call 234-9364 Mrs. Hum. buner. 
Lost & Found 
Reward for the return of jacket lost at Sporka's off-campus party Sat. Jan. 22. Dark blue nylon with oranne and white trim. Also nloves and contact case in packet. Call Chris 1380. Will pay$$. 
LOST: Cross Pen Moreau Hall Rm. 228 Thurs. Jan. 20. Call Rick 683-0956. 
Lost: Nickel-plated fountain pen between Farley, Me. Library and O'Shag. Call Maureen 6825 or 1715. 
FOUND: Sunnlasses outside Flan­ner. Dec. 18. Call Petz 6970. 
Lost: Keys lost between Alumni, South Dininn Hall and Morrissey at noon on Sunday. Call Charlie at 3537. 
Lost: Larne key ring in vicinity of Rockne Memorial. Call 3472. 
Wanted 
2 TICKETS FOR FORDHAM BAS­KETBALL GAME. C'1LL 1747. 
Need 4 tix to Dayton basketball name. Will pay $$. Call Chris at 1161. 
Need 4 tix for NO-Fordham basket. ball name. Call Don at 8470. 
Need ride to Lafayette, Indiana this Friday. Will share expenses. John 1689. 
Need riders to Toledo this Friday. Call Bev 287-2219. 
For Sale 
Calculator LITRON IX 2260, Paran. thesis, scientific notation, AC adap. ter, $25.00 Renny 7018. 
AUDIO OUTLET: Top-name stereo equipment. Wholesale. Call 283-1181. 
FOR SALE: HEAD 360 skis, 68 in. lonn. Solomon bindin[ls. $85. Hu­manic ski boots. Size 7. $25. Excellent condition. Kathie 287-0759. 
Stereo for sale . Brand new. Never been played. Marantz receiver, Garrard turntable, Dynn phase speakers, askinn $375. for info Bill 8658. 
Skis, Hart Freestyle, 195 em., excel­lent condition, call 277-3762 niles till midninht. 
AUDIO COMPONENTS WHOLE­SALE!! Top name equipment. Low­est prices anywhere. 283-1056. 
Personals 
Dear Jo-Ann, 1-23 the "Bin one­einht". Happy Birthday. Love, Gary 
Do you want to be a Catholic? Notre Dame Catechumenate Pronram. Call Campus Ministry 283-6536 or 283-3820. 
RETREAT· THIS WEEKEND FRI. EVE. THRU SUN. MORN. OPEN TO ALL FR. DAVE BURRELL· AT OLD COLLEGE. SIGN UP AT CAMPUS MINISTRY. 
Silly, I can'~ believe that you didn't wear it and I didn't even notice until it was too late!! I'll check more often now. The Bin Hampster 
Hi kids, Yes, it's me. I'm back for another semester of typin[l per sonals. Watch for them on Thurs­days and Fridays. Love, G 
SINGLE, try Matchmaker tor a new way of meetinn other sinnles. Write 
P.O. Box 2i4, Mishawaka, Ind. Enclose a stamped envelope. 
Need a friend? ND-SMC Hotline 4-4311 open ninhts. 
Brinn back the Irish Brinade!!! 
Myl6, 1975. Frodo Bannins was in lnnsbruck. Where were you? 
Dear Jo-Ann, Enjoy your 18th year as best you know how. Love, Paul 
Mannie, Happy 21st. Now you can hit all your favorite bars. Don't let them net you too drunk. Kiss your mother for me. Beefy 
Hey, Deebles! Gump is 21, did you take him swimminn??? 
PUMPKIN ROCHFORD-Don't pou-u-ut -this one's for you. PEANUT 
They found Baby McCarty!! 
' I I I • 'I -' f f J ~ -, I '1 

.. 
l 
l t 
j 
-----~---.........--~--, 
~ ----­
the observer Thursday, January 27, 1977
8 -----=-:_________:__:__:__ _ ___:____ 
Irish cagers tame Panthers, 88-68 
bJ Ray O'Brien first half on a patented Williams points on five outside jumpers to Sports Writer shot from the corner. break atwofor 18 shooting spell in The Irish were hampered by foul the last three games. His best shot 
The Notre Dame cagers bounced trouble as they were in the bonus of the game came in the last two back from their weekend loss to situation after the first seven and a seconds of the first half as he threw UCLA and started the second half half min•Jtes of the game. The a desperation pass the length of the of the season with a 88-68 win over referees kept the whistles blowing court from out of bounds and the PittsburghPantherslast night at as they '>lapped both teams with a swished it. the ACC. total of 28 fouls in the first half. Rich Branning followed Williams in 
Although Tony Dorsett was not Duck Williams carried the Irish scoring with IS points. The fresh­in the lineup for the Panthers, the in scoring as he poured in 17 first man guard shot often from the 
Irish still had their troubles as half points. While Notre Dame shot outside. When questioned about Pittsburgh jumped out to a quick a poor 38 percent in the first the rookie's change in style, Phelps 17-10 lead. Notre Dame started period, they connected on 14 of 17 commented, "Rich must be more slow due to some cold shooting, from ttoe charity line as they broke aggressive offensively and by scor­fouls and turnovers. This forced the to a 48-36 lead at intermission. ing more he can take some of the Irish out of their zone. The Irish gradually pulled away pressure off of Duck (Williams)." 
"We began the game with half in the second half as they domin­Williams led all scorers with 20 court intensity.·· explained Digger ated the boards. Rebounds told the points. Batton and Knight were Phelps. "But they started to score. story as Pittsburgh outshot Notre also in double figures with 14 and and we had to go to the full court Dame 45 percent to 43 percent but II points respectively. Knight fin­
press. which had presented them were outplayed off the boards 56 to ished with a game high 19 re­
problems in their last few outings. 29. This led Panther coach Tim bounds. We had the advantage by doing Grgurich to comment, 'we played Larry Harris paced Pittsburgh this and that brought us back." for 12 minutes or so and then got with 18 points followed by Sonny 
Notre Dame tied the game at 22 a tired. Toby Knight had 14 re­Lewis' 17 pointswhile Michael Rice 
piece on a Toby Knight rebound bounds in the first half. If you give added 16 to the losing cause. goal. The Irish couldn't find the that many rebounds in one half to The Panthers' record drops to basket in the early going but were one guy it really kills you. They did 3-13 on the season. It will be the saved by Knight's rebounding as what they wanted to on the last time Notre Dame meets Pitts­he pulled down an incredible 14 bo~ds." burgh on the hardcourt as no future rebounds in the first half. Two Notre Dame players came games are planned. 
The Irish finally took the lead for out of their slumps last night. The Irish upped their mark to good wirh nine minutes left in the Co-captain Billy Paterno scored ten 9-5. "This just builds up our confidence," explained Phelps. The Irish will be looking for "We arc just going to have go game "magic number" ten against Ford­by game, week by week to the ham this Saturday at 1 p.m. in the 
magic number of 20 wins." ACC.

Sports roundup 
McAdoo says: 'We'll do it' 
%Observer 

by Alex Sachare and do it every night." my shots. 
AP Sports Writer The Knicks' spirits were buoyed "And I've got to score." But 
by Tuesday night's 108-91 romp Holtzman does not want McAdoo to NEW YORK [AP] -The time of over the visiting Chicago Bulls. think he has to do it all himself. reckoning is rapidly drawing near Gone-but not forgotten-were the "On a good team, there are no for the New York Knicks. Twenty problems of a recent 1-5 road trip. superstars,·· the coach said. games into the Bob McAdoo era-10 "We've got to start winning on "There are great players, show 
sports

wins. 10 losses-they have yet to the road." said McAdoo. "That's they are great players by being attain the level of excellence ex­what we have to do to make the able to play with others, as a team. pected of them. playoffs. And Thursday night at McAdoo is a great player. but we 
The Knicks are 21-23 with 38 Cleveland would be a great time to have many o*hers. They have to games left in the regular season. start.'' work together to blend. And that Will they miss the playoffs, as they The Knicks, like just about takes time. did last year. or make a run at the everyone else in the National ''Against Chicago we played 
Buehner signs NO

title? Basketball Association. have had a good defense, we moved the ball "We can do it.'' says New York Jekyll-Hyde existence. They're well and we got it to the right guy­Knicks Coach Red Holzman. 15-7 at home, 6-16 away. McAdoo-when he was free. That's "We've shown we can do it. but McAdoo feels the burden of the kind of ball we're capable of only in spurts. We've got to stop pulling the club together is on him. playing. But we've got to stop 
letter of intent 

talking about it and start doing it "I've got to get myself into the saying it and go out and do it." 
LOUISVILLE, Ky. (AP) -The convinced Buehner to cast his lot

consistently." game more." the three-time scor­tracks are about 25 years old, but with the Irish.
Next door, in the Knicks' locker ing champion said. "I've got to free Irish track quarterback Rick Buehner is fol­"It's like a dream for me," said r~om. team captain Walt Frazier myself more for shots. I've got to lowing the trail to Notre Dame the 6-foot, 180-pound Buehner;was saying the same thing. "It'll get out there and play the kind of blazed by another Louisville quar­who recalls standing on the field income. We have a few good games. game I played in Buffalo-crashing 
goes indoors terback, Paul Hornung. Bend hoping
South "and thator a few good spurts. but nothing the boards, working the fast break. 

Buehner, voted player of the someday I could start for them.''

consistent. When we do that. we'll getting into the flow in order to get Bowling Green, Indiana Tech year on season's
last Associated If Buehner's high school statis­

be there." and Chicago Circle will invade the Press high school all-state team, tics mean anything, he has as goodAnd just a few feet away, McAdoo San Francisco A.C.C. Friday night in the opening signed Tuesday with the Fighting
was saying: "We'll du it. This team meet of the Notre Dame· indoor a shot as anyone. Despite a series
Irish after leading Louisville St. 
of injuries that limited his playing

has tremedous talent, tremendous track season. The meet will take
wins 20th straight Xavier to a pair of state titles and a 
time, Buehner ran for 10 touch­

potential. We've just got to go out place in the fieldhouse and is open 35-2 record the past three· seasons. 
downs last season while rushing for 

tlt the public free of charge. Field
SAN FRANCISCO [AP] • 1 .. .: Like Hornung in the early 1950's, 
over 100 yards a game out of St.

events are scheduled to begin at 6
Carolina wins shooting of Marlon Redmond and p.m. Buehner heads for Notre Dame Xavier's veer offense. 
Winford Boynes brought the Uni­after earning all-star status as a 
His team finished 10-2 last 

Jerry Schellenberg sank two foul versity of San Francisco from quarterback at a Catholic high season, even though the Tigersshots with 14 seconds remaining behind midway in the second half Skiers take third school here. Only time, and suffered heavy graduation losses and Walter Davis's desperation Wednesday night and the top­Buehner's performances, will tell if 
from teams that went unbeaten and Buehner follows Hornung further25-foot jump shot rolled off the rim ranked Dons held on for a 74-68 won state titles in 1974 and 1975.

by Win Palmer along the trail, namely to aas lOth-ranked Wake Forest bat­victory over Santa Clara. 
Buehner with 

tled back to upset fourth-rated The Dons made their record Sports Writer Heisman Trophy and a pro football was swamped 
scholarship offers, but quickly nar­career..

North Carolina 67-66 in an Atlantic 20-0. best in college basketball, rowed the field to Notre Dame and Coast Conference basketball game and improved their West Coast The Notre Dame ski team fin­For now, Buehner and Notre Kentucky.
Wednesday night. Athletic Conference mark to S-0. ished a strong third in an event Dame Coach Dan Devine are ''I didn't want to show interest in Schellenberg was fouled ona The Broncos, 3-2 in the WCAC, held over the weekend at Crystal dismissing the Hornung connec­a college where I knew I wasn'tdri\ing jump shot attempt in the return to their home court Saturday Mountain in Northern Michigan. tion, content instead to look ahead going to go, and waste their timeMichigan gained first and to next season.
lane bv Phil Ford as the Tar Heels night to meet USF. Michi­and money. It just wasn't fair,"gan 1 State placed second in the ten ·'People have made the compari­tried t-o defend a one-point lead. 
Redmond totaled 26 points and Buehner said. 
Ford fouled out on the play after team race. It was the first son a couple of times," Buehner
Boynes 21 in the victory wich was He said that it was Notre Dame's
competitive event of the year for admitted, "but I really don't knowleading the Tar Heels with 19 
anything but easy. Santa Clara's are plusses, and not any minuses 
points. the Irish skiers who looking too much about Paul Hornung,
top scorer was forward Carl Pierce attached to Kentucky's NCAA pro­
forward ''to a long but enjoyable never did see him play, so I reallyThe victory placed the Deacons 
with 14 points. bation for recruiting violations, that
season''. can't make that comparison."
atop the ACC with a 5-I mark and finally swung the balance.
Remi Baylot, who has raced with Devine, of course, wasn't coach­reaised their over-all record to 
I 5-2. North Carolina. which beat lnterhall meeting Olympic Gold Medal winner Franz ing at Notre Dame when Hornung "I want to make one thing Klamer, paced the Irish team with was around, and "that's why a clear," he said. "The probation
Wake Forest 77-75 earlier in Win­
a first place finish in the Giant comparison is very difficult.--period at UK didn't make anyston-Salem. fell to 13-3 over-all and There will be a meeting of all Slalom and a third Place finish in "But he is a heckuva youngster difference in my decision. UK hasS-2 in the ACC. 
men's interhall basketball team 

the Slalom. The addition of Baylot and, yes, I'd say he's as good as a first-class program, and I have acaptains today at 4:30 p.m. in the
Women's track from the French Scholastic team any other incoming freshman I've lot of respect for Coach Fran
ACC auditorium. League play, 

has considerably strengthened a ever coached.'' Curci." 
playoff tournaments and new poli­strong Notre Dame ski team. Joe During his recent visit to the "He's got an excellent futureto meet today cies will be discussed. A represen­

Dwyer and Pat Gleason had out­Notre Dame campus, Buehner and I'm just tickled to death hetative of every team must attend.
All women interested in running standing performances for the Irish "many times" asked himself if he picked Notre Dame," said Devine. 
All referees must stop by the

track please report to the track in as each finished in the top twenty was capable of playing for such a "He can play more than one
interhali office by tomorrow to pick in both the Slalom and the Giant tradition-laden school. position, too, although we arethe ACC at 7:00 p.m. today up their new schedules.

(Wednesday) ready to run. For S)alom. Much is also expected of Although he knows little of definitely thinking about him as a There will also be a mandatory quarterback.''
further information call Larry Car­Steve L'Heureux and Ted Stenger Hornung's exploits at Notre Dame, care 8627 or Steve Pecinovsky referee meeting Monday in the as the Irish prepare for their meet it was the overwhelming tradition For a kid from Louisville, it 3158. ACC lnterhall Office at 4:30p.m. in Detroit this weekend. in which Hornung had a hand that would seem that's only natural. 




