
---~------------~--­
SANTA. CRUZ DE l'hnERIFE, sources said the U.S. plane appar­The airport remained closed to "We're extremely happy, be~ ideas, not just names," she contin-Canare Islands (AP) -Investiga­ently misunderstood the order and all traffic Monday. Wreckage and cause we put in a lot of time and ued. "Most of them knew the tors probed flight records yester­taxied onto another runway where parts of bodies were scattered over hard work in the last few weeks," platforms and were convinced they day for clues to the cause of the the KLM plane was taking off, a wide area. Witnesses said the stated Rukavina. "We're expecial-were supporting the best ticket flaming runway collision of Pan Cifra said. burned bodies of a woman and ly pleased with the turn-our. We iwth their vote. St. Mary's is not American and KLM jumbo jets that In New York a Pan American child cradled in her arms lay among figured the bigger the turn-out, the apathetic, and this election gave killed more people than any avia­spokesman said he understood all the debris. better our chances, since our them a chance to show it." tion disaster in history. tape had been confiscated by ''You could still see the gesture names were probably not as famili-Stolze said she was very pleased 
Airline officials in New York said Spanish judge and as far as it of the mother, imbracing and ar as the other candidates.'' by the turn-out and wished to thank 578 persons, most of them believed knew, no tapes had been reviewed. trying in vain to protect her child," Rukavina felt their door-to-door everyone who supported her. "I to be Americans, died when the The airline said it had dispatched a rescue worker said. campaign was the biggest factor want to urge everyone to work with two chartered jets filled with its own investigators to the crash Spanish officials set up a tempor-_ contributing to their victory. "All Mary now," Stolze said. "She has vacationers collided Sunday while site and would make a statement [continued on page 6] the :students were very receptive my support." 
preparing to take off from the about the accident when it had 
r~~-:--:--,:...,_-----~-----;r--~--t
fog-shrouded runway. reliable information from the The dead included all 248 per­scene. 
' .~ t 
sons aboard the Dutch Airliner and Oyarzabal said he would not 330 of the 396 aboard the Pan comment on the report until the American jet, officials said. KLM official investigation was complete. said four of its passengers were Grubbs, who was hospitalized, 't t Americans, identified as Mr. and was quoted by Cifra as saying, "I Mrs. Don Gillis, Mrs. Terry Twist just remember the impact. You t t andher 18-month old daughter, couldn't see anything. nothing at Melissa, all all of Rochester, N.Y. all. We only felt an enormous 
Pan American said most of its blow." 
t ' 
passengers boarded the flight in In Amsterdam, KLM President Los Angeles for a ten-day Mediter­Sergio Orlandini said he doubted ranean holiday. that the Dutch pilot, Z.A. Veld-j 
lt :
-Tenerife Gov. Antonio Oyarzabal huisen van Zanten, would have said the two jetliners struck nearly begun his take off without clear­head-on as the Dutch plane sped ance. He said van Zanten. who was down the runway for take off at 150 killed in the collision, had more miles per hour. than 15,000 hours of flight time and 'tz:'"~ -· '' 
Manual de Prado, president of was one of the airline's most Spain's national airline Iberia, told experienced piJQts. a news conference the KLM plane Orlandini claimed part of the tt ' t had been ordered to taxi to the end taxiway, which he said was parallel of the main runway, turn 180 to the main runway, is too narrow t -t degrees and prepare for take off. for jumbo jets, so the wide-bodied The Pan American jet was told to planes use a section of the runway t -· t follow the Dutch plane down the to move up to the assembly point ot 
t ; t
runway, then turn off onto a prepare for takeoff. taxiway to allow the lead plane to KLM said the dead included six take off, he said. infants and a stewardess who had added the
f St~diu~"::-·~:ke was to campus spring rain storms hit yesterday. '! Oyarzabal said officials did not know just returned to duty after having f topography as the first of South Bend's regular [Photo by Paul Clevenger] ' whether the Dutch plane had her first child. 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
permission to take off. ''This is a key point of the investigation," Oyarzabal said. 
Both planes had been diverted 
ND to vote on collective bargaining?
here from Las Palmas after a bomb blast injured eight persons at an by Maureen Flynn An AAUP questionnaire of April agents, "but so tar no other fessional and economic interests."
airport flower shop. A Canary Editorial Editor 1976 showed that 52.9 percent of organization has offered itself," he A follow-up letter and additionalIsland liberation movement claim­the 61 percent of the faculty who observed. cards were sent out March 23.
ed credit for the blast, but disa­Over two hundred faculty mem­responded wanted the Notre Dame In early February 1977 the ND If an election is held and thevowed responsibility for the colli­bers have signed cards that could AAUP chapter to initiate proce­chapter of the AAUP compiled and . AAUP elected the bargaining
sion. result in a formal vote on the dures that would allow Notre Dame circulated a booklet among the agent, the actual negotiators would
De Prado said four other flights collective bargaining issue, it was faculty to choose or reject collective faculty entitled "The Case for be members of the Notre Damediverted from Las Palmas took off announced yesterday. bargaining. Collective Bargaining at the Uni-Chapter, Robinson stated. "Ex­
safely before the collision.. The Spanish news agency Cifra 
Prof. James Robinson, president perience of collective bargaining at quoted airport as saying of the Notre Dame Chapter of the other institutions has shown that
sources Amer:can Association of University
the flight recorder from the Ameri­outside negotiators are both un­can plane showed the airport 
Professors (AAUP), said that necessary and undesirable," he "about 220" people have signed explained.
control tower had ordered Pan American pilot Capt. Victor cards designating the AAUP chap­Robinson noted that a bargaining 
Grubbs of Cent~rport. N.Y., to ter as a . collective bargaining agent would not negotiate indivi­move onto the main runway. The representative. . dual salaries, but would try to reach an agreement with the


~ ********""'-­
"The AAUP chapter must decide 
~ Jlllf" whether it wants to petition the administration on the over-all aca­iC * National Labor Relations Board demic budget. Once the budget~claSS electiOnS .L._ (NLRB) for an election of the basis was established, existing proce­~ -lllf'" of those results," Robinson said. dures for determining individualiC . h ld *"About 33 to 34 percent of the salaries would be used, he said. ~ being e ""'--faculty have signed. We co~ld According to Robinson. the other ~ Jlllf" petition for an election now, but It's main areas in which collectiveiC * better to wait until we have bargaining could be effective are in 
University governance and facultyiC TODAy * fee:~~~n SO and 55 percent at 
grievances.i{ * Robinson said the chapter will "A negotiated contract could · ""'--probably meet in mid-April and the I"' enforce the faculty role in existing 
• Jlllf" card campaign will continue until structures.·· he explained. "In 
Professor james Robinson, AAUP President.
~ Be sure to *then. bodies already exi•;ting. the faculty
[Photo by Paul Clevenger]
~ ""'--"In mv mind, the results es-role would he more clearly defined 
• Jlllf" tablish ; solid premise for the When the chapter discovered versity of Notre Dame." On :md there would he official sanc­~ t .. possibility of collective bargaining that "a goodly majority" of its own February 2.1 Robinson sent to all tion~ ...
-
~ at Notre Dame at some time," the members supported collective bar­faculty ·members a kiicr ao;king In addition. l,(t'OUp~ or individualsiC * Chapter president sa~d. "There _is gaining, "we decided to offer them to sign a card dcsiguating the l'Ptild 1·:fer pmhlcms· to the faL·ultv ~ lt a goodly number mtcrested m ourselves as an agent," Robinson chapkr "my reprc!>cntati\c fnr the rcpre~entali\ l'. rnhin~on said. 
said. He admitted that there arc purpose of carr~·ing on ,·olkrt j, ,. lirin an,-e~ ,-,,uld ,·on,·nn salarit'"· 
0 e 
*********lt ~tu;;~.i~g it at least to the election pm-
other groups that might be possible negotiations to rcptT~t·nt Ill\ jt'ontinued on page bj 


The Observer 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's Tuesday, March 29, 1977
Vol. XI, No. 103 
Post-wreck probe: 578 dead, cause remains a question 
Rukavina elected Saint Mary's SBP 
by Anne Bachle 

Mary Rukavina was elected St.. Mary's Student Body President by a strong majority in elections held yesterday. Running with her were Kathy O'Connell. who was elected vice-president of student affairs, and Cathy Hedges, who was elec­ted vice-president of academic affiars. The Rukavina ticket de­feated their only opponents, Mary Ann Stolze, JoAnn Baggiano, and Terease Chin. 
A total of 1001 students, 59 per cent of the student body, voted in the elections. This was the largest turn-out in recent years. 
Election Commissioner Maria-Lisa Mignanelli was very pleased with the turn-out, commenting, "I think all the candidates did a good job in getting people out to vote." 
when we called on them:" she noted. "I think a lot of students who never would havethought about votingwere impressed that we took the time to visit them, so we got a lot of kids out who normally 
wouldn't vote," she commented. 
The new officers plan to continue 
the student body support demons­
trated yesterday by more door-to­
door visits, at least once a semes­
ter. "The pressure's on now more 
than before, to continue the enthu­
siasm the sti'Idents showed yester­
da,-," Rukavina said adding, "We 
w:~ to stay as in touch with the 
students during the coming year as 
we were this past week.'' 
"We based our campaign on the 
contention that the student body is 
not naive," Rukavina noted, "and 
this election proves that. 

"The kids voted policies and 
-
2 
the observer Tuesday, March 29, 1977 . 

---News Briefs--­
'========lntemational Women more religious 
MOSCOW -Soviet leaders warned Secretary of State Cyrus R. Vance on the first day of their nuclear arms talks yesterday that continued U.S. support for Russian dissidents could jeopardize U.S.-Soviet relations. Both Soviet party chief Leonid I. Brezhnev and Foreign Minister Andrei A. Gromyko declared that the United States must adhere to the "principles of non-interference in the internal affairs" of the Soviet Union. 
•==================National 

More Soviet dissident problems 
NEW YORK • Women, the figures say, are exceedingly religous and becoming more so. And the more religious they are, ~he healthier, sexier and happier. That's the somewhat starthng finding of a_ survey by a national women:s m~gazine, Redb~ok, which drew answers to a seven~part quesbonnatre on the subJect from 6S,_QOO women readers. 

On Campus Toda!J'___, 
3:30pm reception, william laast, assoc. director peace corps ghana, south alcove, Iafortune student center. 
4:30pm lecture, "sodium and water balance in the diamondback terrapin, by gerald robinson, fordham univ., sponsored by biology dept galvin life science 
center. 

5:30 & speed reading orientation, u.s. reading laboratory, 
8:30 pm room 247 madeleva hall 
6:30 
pm _ films, "frank lloyd wright: architect" and "walt whitman: song of myself," howard hall. 

6:30 
pm meet your major, anthropology, library lounge. 

6:30 
pm, meet your major, economics, room 203 o'shag 


7:30pm meet your major, sociology, room _204 o'shag. 
7:30pm lecture, "impressionism: claude monet and the 
7:30 & 10 pm 
8 pm 
8 pm 
8:30pm 
10:30 pm rebels of 1874," by dr. james ward, sponsored by foreign studies program, Iafortune amphitheatre. 
film, stanley kubrick film festival -"paths of glory'', 
eng. aud. admission $1. 
lecture, "letras coloniales entre espana i america," 
by prof. jose durand, unill. of cal. at berkeley, room 120 hayes-healy. 
workshop, job search, sponsored by st. mary's student affairs, campus ministry, holy cross. 
meet your major, government and international studies, room 205 o'shag. 
interview, "someone you should know," this week. featuring kreskin, wsnd [88.9) 
(*The Observerl ERRATUM 
A headline in yesterday's Obser­ver erroneously stated that com­mencement tickets will be distribu­ted this week. Tickets for the family 'ind guests of graduates will be distributed in the Registrar's office Monday, May 2 through Friday, May 6, between 8 a.m. and 5 p.m. 
--------------------~------------. 



Rocky takes best picture 
LOS ANGELES (AP) -The late Pc!ter Finch, the messianic news­ca.ster of "Network," and Faye Dunaway, the hard driving execu­tive of the same film scored Oscars as the best actor and actress at the 49th Academy Awards on Monday night. 
"Rocky," the unknown slugger who almost won the heavy-weight title, captured the movie champion­ship for best picture and for direction by John Avildsen. 
Jason Robards, the tough­minded newspaper editor of "All the! President's Men," and Bea­
trice Straight, the discarded wife of William Holden in "Network," were named best supporting per­formers of 1976.$ 
Robards smiled his pleasure at receiving the honor after his many years as an actor and thanked Ben Bradlee, the Washington Post executive editor he protrayed, ''for being alive so he would let me come out and play with him." 

Miss Straight, American-born and English-educated, won the Academy's honor after long years of solid but unsung portrayals on Broadway and in films. 
Backstage the actress admitted she had been stunned--"1 never really expected to win; I must have sounded like an idiot up there." 
Robards, best-known for his roles in Eugene O'Neill dramas, thanked producer-star Robert Red­ford for his "courage, integrity and honesty in the project,'' which dealt with the investigative report­
~;ophomore class ticket c:andidates write-in 
A write-in ticket will be compet­ing in the sophomore class elec­tions today. Presidential candi­date John Muldoon termed his platform the "patiy" platform, but he insisted, "we are not a joke ticlk:et." 
"We are running," he stated, "b•~cause we feel that the freshmen are not being given much of a choice. They can only vote for the promotion of the type of activities which have already proven unsuc­cessful. We offer a change,:' Muldoon emphasized. 
Other candidates on the write-in ticket include Dan Nussman for vice-president, Mark Hentschell for secretary and Mike Korbel for class secretary. 
''Some people contend that we 

events as a "Nick Eddy Memorial 
Weekend," a "Why I Love Amer­
ica" essay contest and a "Remem­
her tile Chicago 7" anniversary 
party. 
"All ideas are welcome," Mul­

doon said. "Our door is always 
open." 
"This may seem absurd," he 

concluded, "but if we can pull together and pull this election off, we can accomplish anything."



········t
. SHAKESPEARE'S ALJV E & W ~LL & • LIVING IN
A 
, • 

~-41~41~••~•~~4a~a~~a 
ing of Watergate by Bob Wood­ward and Carl Bernstein. Reporters asked Robards if Brad­lee had helped him in his portrayal. 
"Ben showed me around ·the newspaper and I hung out with him a bit," said the actor. 
Miss Straight's award was pre­ceded by an event that delighted the audience. Presenter Sylvester 


Stallone, the heavy-weight con­tender in "Rockey," was inter­rupted by the sudden appearance of Mohammad Ali. 
"You stole my script!" the heavyweight champion shouted. "Show me what you can do!" The startled Stallone feinted a bit with Ali before expressing his thrill at 
being on stage with a "100 percent pure legend." 
Later in the evening, "Rocky," which Stallone wrote and starred in, won the Oscar for Best Picture of 1976. 
--NE-EDL-OW--CO-ST..
I I 
TRANSPORTATION?I We can help. I

"  
Contact:  I  
I  Auto Driveaway Co.674-9786  I  

Deposit RequiredI Returned at Destination I 
._________
··Must be 21... • 

are totally insane," Muldoon re-.:=IL!:ii::iill=: 
marked. "This is perhaps true if being sane means that we're too obsessed with G.P.A.'s and per­sonal ambitions to enjoy the simple, off-the-wall absurdities of everyday life." 
Muldoon proposed that in addi­tion to ''traditional'' activities such as ~ormals, mixers, picnics, happy hours and trips, his ticket would consider such "imaginative" 
MrcE/roy elected Sc:holastic editor 
Kathleen McElroy, a junior from Silvt~r Springs, Md., was elected editor-in-chief of Scholastic for the 1977-78 school year by the editorial board and staff of the magazine last night. 
McElroy, who majqr.s in English and government and who hopes to ente:r journalism as a career, has been a member of Scholastic since her freshman year. She has formerly held the posts of Assistant Art Director and News Editor, her presc~nt position. 
Concerning the direction of the magazine, McElroy does not forsee any major change in the natUire of the Scholastic. She hopes to expand the number of pages in the magazine and plans to revive the Course Evaluation Booklet. 
The rest of the Scholastic Editor­ial Board for the next school year will be chose;, later next month. 
MEET YOUR MAJOR 

TONIGHT 
Tuesday at 6:30 in the 
" ItChere IS • diffnnue!!!Jffi3 
r.., 

PREPARE FOR: 

\ 


~·~·~ 
GMAT • GRE • OCAT 
VAT • SAT 

ECFMG ·FLEX 
NAT'L MEDICAL BOARDS NAT'L DENTAL BOARDS 
Our broad range of programs prov1des an umbrella of test­mg know-how that enables us to offer the best preparat1on avail3ble no matter which course IS taken. Over 38 years of expe/ience and success. Small classes. Voluminous home study materials. Courses that are constantly up­dated. Permanent centers open days. evenings & week­ends all year. Complete tape facilities for review of class lessons and for use of supplementary materials. Make-ups for missed lessons at our centers. 
SPRING, SUMMER, WINTER COMPACTS MOST CLASSES-8 WEEKS BEF. EXAM 
******************* 
LAST CHANCE FOR NEW SPRING 
MCAT FOUR WEEK INTENSIVE STARTS APRIL 4, 6 p.m. -MON/THURS 

___j 
l_"uesday, March 29, 1977 the observer 

Program devised to alleviate library noise 
by Marian Ulicny "We must maintain quiet at all mittee to set up a schedule of the College of Engineering have the seminar room doors. 
Senior Staff Reporter costs, otherwise the purpose of the sessions with the new students begun an accoustical survey of the Furniture arrangement in the 
library is frustrated," Hesburgh during their fall orientation week. noise-amplifying areas. Projected College Library may be changed 
Student cooperation is a primary stated in a letter dated January 13, 'The sessions will acquaint students .proposals for improving the condi­during the summer, Sparks con­factor in a recently devised pro­1977. with the library's beharior policies. tions include carpeting the areas to tinued. Desks and chairs will be gram to decrease noise in the Using library regulations from According to Sparks, student diminish the noise level. The movedaway from the doors leading Memorial Library, according to Du Lac, Sparks drew up a set of leaders figure strongly in efforts to survey is expected to be completed to the lobby. Shelving will be lined David E. Sparks, director of Uni-. guidelines for student behavior in eliminate "students annoying stu­within several weeks. up immediately inside the doors to versity libraries. the library. The rules have been dents" in the library. "We want Expansion of ·"the Pit" is plan­block some of the sound. 
Sparks and Dr. George E. Serei­endorsed by James A. Roemer, this to come across not as a dictate ned to provide booths and tables. "We hope to be able to do all the ko, assistant director of public dean of students, and will be from 'Big Brother' or as a whining In addition, seminar rooms in the renovations by the beginning of the ·services in the Memorial Library, available in pamphlet form, to complaint from a group of librar­tower may be opened to students next school year," Sparks noted. conducted a series of library staff students. ians. We'd really like this to come for evening study. "It doesn't seem to me to be that meetings to study the noise pro­Incoming freshmen will receive across as a sincere appeal to the Currently, the rooms are locked complicated of a problem." blem, after receiving letters of pamphlets by mail with a welcom­students to help each other," he at 5 p.m. because "students were "I think the solution to the noise concern from Fr. Theodore Res­ing letter from the library staff, stated. found to be making out in them," problem is a combination of two burgh, university president, and Sparks stated. He plans a meeting Sparks plans additional meetings Sparks stated, adding, "However, things," Sparks commented. Fr. James Burtchaell, pr~vost. with the freshmen orientation com-with Dave Bender, student body it's silly to keep them closed "What we can do to make the 
president-elect, and the Hall Pres­because they could add 90 addi­building useful and accomodating 
idents Council, possibly in April. tional study places.'' to the students and.. what the 
In workshops held during spring Windows and door closers to students are going to do in their 
break, Sparks reviewed the role of prevent noise from flitering out own self-discipline to care for each 

ND students arrested near Nickies, Library 
by Jake Morrissey released at about 9 a.m. The trial 
Staff Reporter date is set for April 5. 
Two other students were involv­
Five male Notre Dame students ed in a similar incident. The two. were arrested in the Nickie's-Li­were with three others who were on brary area early Saturday morning, their way to the Library. One of 
the South Bend Tribune reported those arrested was walking about Saturday. All five were arrested on two yards in front of the group. alcohol-related charges. ''Suddenly,'' one student said, 
The arrests are part of a crack-­'"a cruiser drives up and cuts him down by the South Bend police (the student was walking ahead of force, in response 1o neighborhood the group) off. The cop asked for 
complaints of noise and litter a the guy's ID, which he gave police source said. without any griping." One student involved said, "I The other arrested student 
came out of Nickie's with a friend. I caught up with him and asked what went out into the parking lot and all the trouble was, the source contin­of a sudden this cop in his cruiser ued. The policeman asked for his pulled up behind me. He got out of ID. "Then the cop got out of the the car and was cursing and car. He saw a beer glass in my swearing. He arrested me, hand­friend's pocket," he said. "There cuffed m~. and took me down­was beer residue on the bottom of it town." which had been there about two 
There the student was booked, hours." The policeman arrested fingerprinted, and assigned a cell. the student for possession of He was allowed to call his room­alcohol as a minor. mate who posted the $50 bonded The policeman told the other 
bail. student to stand on one foot, which "They told me I'd be out by 4:30 he said he did willingly. ''The cop a.m.," the source related. He was [continued on page 6] 
the library staff in encouraging a 
quiet atmosphere. He stressed two 
major factors: First, the staff must 
be consistent in its demand on the 
students for proper library conduct, 
and secondly, staff members' con­
duct must be consistent with the 
guidelines presented to the stu­
dents. In addition, Sparks is con­
sidering the use of badges for staff 
identification. 

The major sources of noise in the Memorial Library are the second floor lobby and the basement food" facility. According to Sparks, the architecture of the two areas con­tributes to the problem since the hard surfaces of the walls, floors and ceilings are excellent noise 
·reflectors. 

Dr. Ambrose Richardson, chair­man of the architecture depart­ment, and Dr. Raymond Brach of 
need posters in a hurry? 
. .

•nsty-pr1nls~ 
the wi2 ~the printingbiz! 

1oo -11 x 17 posters 
Only $10.00 203 N. Main S08end 289-6977 
onto the floors would be installed in other's need for quiet." 
,-------~--------, 
t  t  
' t  tI  
I  I  
' t  Lenten  tt  
' t  Penance Service  ft  
'  '  
t  t  
t  Sacred Heart Church  '1  
t1  Wednesday March 30  'l  
t  IO:oopm  t  
t  t  
f'  CONFESSION FOLLOWING  ft  
!  [i1  !  
~'  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~---~ - t  

r---------~------~ 
2-YEAR NRoTc 
§l:BilJI:!JI1CDffi§llJU~ 
m~~mmumrnuu~~ 
• 




: TheTest f 
Immediate Benefits
: 
• We're looking for a few good college men who will .+ For Those Who • make good Marine officers. t Qualify 
•FULL TUITION FOR JUNIOR & SENIOR YEAR 
•• It's~ test of body, brain and spirit: If you've got it, : •ALL BOOKS. prove 1t. If you want it, work for it. If you think you're a • •ALL EDUCA'IION, LAB FEES 
•$1 00 MONTHLY SUBSISTANCE
• leader, show us. • 
A lot of companies will offer you an important soundingt That's our challenge. The only promise we make is + title. 
• that you'll be running in good company. + But how many offer you a really important job? 
In the Navy. you get one as soon as you earn your com­mission. A job with responsibility. A job that requires skill and leadership. A job that's more than just a job, because it's also an adventure. 
IF THATS THE KIND OF JOB YOU'RE LOOKING FOR, CALL



: ThMa·"' :
• e nnes • 
.Lt. Commander Nelson 283.6442
•.....................• 
'~*The Observer an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's 
The Observer is published by students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions and letters are the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and letters are encouraged to promote the free expression of varying opinions on campus. 
BoxQBusiness Manager Sue Quigley Notre DameAdvertising Manager Steve· Bonomo Ind. 46556Production Manager Karen Chiames 
Tuesday, March 29, 1977 
One Step Closer 
Congratulations, St. Mary's! You have taken the first step out of the apathetic jungle for which you have been famous. Fifty-nine percent of you cared enough to vote in yesterday's student government elections, and your choice was the Rukavina-Hedges-0' Connell ticket. This 
promises  to  be  a  hard-working  trio,  
dedicated  to  the  advancement  of  St.  
Mary's.  

But all the hard work and dedication in the world won't accomplish anything for St. Mary's without more of the interest you showed yesterday. The frustration of the parletals committee this year proved that. But even the parietals project has a good chance, if you support your newly-elected government with some of the hard work arid dedication they have promised you. 
We congratulate the new officers and wish them a successful year. We remind them, however, that campaign promises are eaSy to make, but not always so easy to keep. Th~y have started the movement toward .active and enthusiastic participa-
EDITORIAl BOARD 
Marti Hogan Editor-in-Chief Martha Fanning Managing Editor Bob Brink Asst. Managing Ed. Kathy Mills Executive Editor Maureen Flynn Editorial Editor Barb Breitenstein Exec. News Editor Tom Byrne Campus Editor Jean Powley St. Mary's Editor Katie Kerwin News Editor Paul Stevenson Sports Editor Pat Cole Special Projects Ed. David O't<eefe Features Editor 
Copy Editor Barb Langhenry 
Photo Editor Paul Clevenger 

tion. Now they must keep the momentum going. 
We urge them to stay in touch with students' feelings, as they have promised. And that means keeping all lines of communication open. No student body can support a government that seems remote from the individual student and unre­sponsive to her ideas and problems. 
In addition, we hope that the new officers will seek a mutually-beneficial, cooperative relationship with the student government at Notre Dame and keep open the lines of communication with the student media. 
Rukavina, Hedges and O'Connell have pledged to handle students' smaller, daily problems, as well as the large ones. This is an ambitious promise, and one not easily fulfilled. When the list of 1 1 daily'' problems is compiled, we hope the partetals issue is near the top. It should be very "daily" (noon to midnight?). 
You've made your choice, SMC. Stand by it. 

Invitation To A Forum 
In the past few weeks, the faculty of Notre Dame have been asked to take an important step: bring the issue of collective bargaining to a: vote. llte cal!lpus chapter of the American Association of University Professors (AAUP) is conduc­ting a card campaign, asking faculty members to designate the AAUP as their bargaining agent. Ifthe chapter receives a large enough response, it may petition the National Labor Relations Board (NLRB) for an election. 
Once the election is called, any organiza­tion (the Faculty Senate, the American Federation of Teachers, the National Education Association, for example) may petition to be placed on the ballot as a potential bargaining agent. NLRB regula­tions require that the voters also have the choice "No agent." 
The Observer is aware of the deep concern among faculty members over the issue of collective bargaining. All sides of the question have received much study and thought. The debate has generally been characterized by eaution and careful consideration. 
Now that the discussion has reached this critical point, The Observer would like to provide a forum for faculty members to raise and answer questions, to share their thoughts and convictions. The letters and opinion columns are always open to anyone in the community who has something to say. We would likE~ to extend a special invitation to the faculty to make use of them now. 

DOONESBURY 
by Garry Trudeau 
"711&PI/8/JC li'Jf5FfJN56 7HPOt/fTICAI,t5 ANlJ 5YM8tJ/.­t£TTei(SHAS 8e8N !fAKIN6 
O~£lMIN6tY PRIJCF:tiS?I FAVORABlE•• N )tiU \ 86 
ItJ!JJECr! 
!«CHAIR­
MAN, I OBJECT!
..._ 

P. 0. Box Q 
Eggheads, unite! Vote Nyet! 
Dear Editor: 
The letter of March 23 from AAUP President James Robinson to the faculty concerning collective bargaining states that AAUP prin­ciples include "guaranteeing a full participation of the faculty in the determination of such matters as faculty status." Funny thing, the local AAUP Chapter itself seems curiously reluctant to abide by such a principle. ' 
For by manipulating the options so that one can opt for collective bargaining only by simultaneously "designating" AAUP as choice of bargaining agent, AAUP very ef­fectively forestalls "participation of the faculty" in a vital decision. That is the decision to decide which organizations among a long list of possible alternatives, are to be considered as possible bargaining agent. 
For instance, a strong case can be made that the Faculty Senate -­a democratically elected body which, being entirely local, should be able to withstand off-campus 
. pressure .--should be designated 
· bargaining agent. A simple re­printing of the card mailed out by AAUP would have made it possible for the faculty to express an opinion concerning such a possibility. But AAUP persists ;n conveying the impression that one can choose only AAUP if one chooses collective bargaining. Such manipulation of the issues certainly violates the spirit of dialogue that is the crucial element in democratic university governance. 
Let me repeat my earlier warn­ing: Eggheads of the faculty unite! Vote Nyet! Nyet! Nyet! against collective bargaining. 
Stephen T. Worland, PhD. ·Associate Professor of Economics 
Utter problem? 
Can it! 
To the Editor: 
There is a very simple solution to solving the problem of litter around the local, student-frequented tav­erns · installation of secured trash cans at appropriate locations. Al­though students are not officially allowed to exit the taverns with a drink in hand, obviously they do. And since they are not allowed to enter with one, they have no other recourse upon arrival but to dis­pose of it in the nearest lot, yard or-street. 
My suggestion for the placement of trash cans, which might be similar to the one on the corner of Eddy arid South Bend Avenue (but located outside of the path of "bar hoppers"), include the following areas: The entrances of The Li­brary, Nickies, Bridget's and Cor­by's; several hundred feet north of the Library to catch the refuse of those homeward bound students who are walking; the north side­walk of Howard midway between The Library and Nickies; and on the west sidewalk of Eddy Street between Nickies and Bridget's. This may seem like a Jot of trash cans, but if the residents had their choice, I think they would prefer several extra trash cans to the unsightly litter and time spent on picking it up. 
Judith A. Robert 902 Notre Dame Ave. 
Who should stay home? 
Dear Graduation Committee, 
My parents, my grandmother, and my 9 brothers and sisters, all of whom could have benefitted greatly had they kept the $16,000 it cost them to send me to school at Notre Dame, are · counting on seeing me graduate. Whom should I tell to stay home? 
MaryGumble 
aassof'77 


Orer-65 set 

enumerated 
Dear Editor: 

Dean Waldman, ofthe College of Science, stated in last Wednes­day's Observer that he only knew of one professor to stay on as an ' active faculty member past the age of 65 in the science department. Although I don't doubt his state­ment, I feel it is misleading because he mentions only one college in this university and does not tell how many professors taught after the age of 65 in the entire university. Over the past ten years more than· twenty professors · taught beyond the 65 age limit. It seems this fact should carry more weight than the peculiarities of any · one department alone when analyz­ing Professor Danehy's "forced·· retirement." 
Mark Brown 


Come ToMe 
(Theme From · "The Pink Panther Strikes Again") 
Anniversary Song 

TiiESE SUPER SOUNDS ARE ON SALE: "LINDA RONSTADT'S GREATEST HITS" AN> EAGI.£S ~HOTEL CAUFORNIA"ON ASYWM, TOM-JONES 
"SAY YOU'LL STAY UNTIL TOMORROW"ON EPIC 
AND THE ENTIRE BARRY MANILON CATALOGUE, 
"BARRYMANILOW1", "BARRYMANILOW2", "TRYIN' TO GET THE. FEE LING" AND "nilS ONE'S FOR 
YOU" ALL ON ARISTA. 

STEREOLPS 
SERIES798 
ONLY ... 





$4.99 


GLEN CAMPBELL" SOUTHERN NIGHTS" AND NATALIE COLE "UNPREDICTABLE" ONCAPITOL AND BTO"FREEWAYS"ONMERCURY. 
More music...· 

Plus Many More of Your Favorite Artists and Titles to Choose From! 
-PRICES GOOD TBRU APRIL 1­
Notre Da1ne Bookstore 
I I 
~~ 
I 
l 



-~----~-­

6 the observer Tuesday, March 29, 1977 
~==~~~~~====~~~==~~~~~=============~ 
Blood donors needed·
Are NO girls Playboy material? 
Volunteer Services will be holding A high school boy needs a tator
by Drew J. Bauer were over 1SO prospective models Chan, who when called was in interviewed in the two days. the middle of a photography ses­
a blood drive on campus for a to enable him to catch up on workSenior Staff Reporter 
family from Chicago. Two mem­missed while ill. A fee will be When asked if he· planned on that he "admired Notre Dame 
sion in a Bloomington hotel, said 
bers of the Beebe family are offered.. Ai80, anyone interested in A rumor that a Playboy magazine coming to Notre Dame in the more than any other school in the 
heJJ.!'Vi'hiliacs and must undergo aiding various families and elder.ly continbal injections to function peopl~ !n spring house cleaningforseeable future to photograph· country," and always routed for itsphotographer was. on the Notre normally. This involves a cost of or pamtmg, please contact Volun··
some co-eds, Chan said, "Maybe, football team. over $SO,OOO per year in blood. teer Services at 7308.
Dame campus last week to scout for 

you can never tell where I'll be next Chan said that he would like to Girls Today" pictoral is false, in this business." come to . this campus, and
girls to be featured in a "College 

Students interested in giving blood to benefit the Beebe family
the official at Playboy said that
according to a Playboy official. 

may report to the infirmary any­SMC 
a photographer might "swing 
time between 9:1S-11:15 Wednes­
through and stop at the cam­
ber of the Big Ten and those day morning, March 30, or phone-a·thon 

pus for awhile."
are the schools that we are between 10:15-12:00 Thursday,

·. Director of Information Ser­
presently visiting;" he said March 31. Students should specify solicits donations

vices Richard W. Conk lin said 
that they are donating for the·
that he hoped that Playboy 
by Denisa LynkThe Observer. 

Beebe family and the blood will be
would not come to this campus 
credited to the family's name. For The second annual St. Mary's
and stated that "you are out of
article in Saturday's South more information, contact the Vol­Phone-a-thon will begin on April unteer Services office at 7308. 11. St. Mary's students will be

office would publicize and help
Playboy photographer David 

Volunteers are needed to help phoning alumni, asking--them to
Chan was spending two days with such an event." 
supervise various activities at the amke contributions to the College,
"I wouldn't really expect
at Purdue University, new Fountain View Place Nursing unit! the end of the month.

any ttouble if I go there,'' said
viewing models for a feature 

Home. An open house at the Pat Schirmer, the developing
Chan, who further went on to
on women at Big Ten Confer-nursing home will be held April 3. commissioner of the SMC student

say that even though N;)ire
ence schools. 

government, will be in the St.
For more information, call the
Dame is a Catholic university,
The visit caused protests by 

Mary's dining hall to sign upactivities director, Cathy Brennan,
"the only problem I might
women from the National Or­interested students on April 4 and

at 277-2SOO.

have is if all the Fighting Irish
ganization of Women and the 

S. For every two hours that a
People are also needed to do a
showed up and wanted to be
Lafayette Everywoman's Cen­student works she will be allowed survey for United Way. If inter­

photographed."
ter, who carried signs outside to make a free five minute phoneested contact Gladys McKinney at

When confronted with the
the hotel in which the inter­call anywhere in the United States.

284-9672.

views were taking place read­rumour that Playboy was Schirmer stated. "We want the 
already here, Conklin said, "I 
students to get involved. In pasting, "Raise our salaries, not 
didn't expect that our girls 
years the alumnae have reallyour skirts," and "Bite the 
Seniors-register
would be dumb enough to do 
enjoyed talking to them, and are · The article said that there _something like that." 
hand that feels you". 

looking forward to hearing fromfor your formal them again this year.'' 
According to Schirmer, last year's goal to obtain a 37%
ND-SMC Senior Formal registra­alumnae rate
participation wastion will continue today in the


Communications 'mixed up' 
surpassed. This year the goal is toLaFortune ballroom from 2 to 4
[continued from page 1] was to hold its departure while the and two Pan American employees. reach a SO% rate. 
p.m. A deposit of at least $10 is Schirmer stressed the point thatPan American ,plane taxied down The American jet had been char­
ary morgue in a hangar while required. The balance is due by the Phone-a-thon is for St. Mary's,
the runway to await its turn for take tered by Royal Cruise Lines. while
l 
medical experts began the task of Thursday. April 7. and that "it would be good if the
off. the Dutch Plane was flying under
identifying the victims. Students who have questions students participated." "Be­
"We pulled out and followed charter to Holland International, a
Investigators said most of the should call Jay Pittas at 289-2063. sides." he s11irl. "it's fun."
them," Brusco said in a telephone leading tour company in the Neth­survivors of the Pan American 
' interview. "Just as we got to the erlands.
Plane escaped through the front of 

the torn fighting offramp, were we would get out of
r fuselage, their the way, well, communications way through billowing smoke. 
must have gotten mixed up... Ail of AAUP action
r 
"The top of the plane in the front a sudden we were turning and section was sheared right off,'' said someone was screaming that KLM [continued from page 1) A Stanley Kubrick Film Festiva 
status or teaching and research
Marian Anderson of Santiago, Cal­was taking off. 

conditions. "The negotiator' be­
if. ''There was just a big open The Ultimate Tri1).
comes involved only when existing
· Because of frequent fog andplace. I crawled through the 
structures defined in the contract
unpredictable winds, the Sant Cruz Mar 29 Dr. Strangelove
debris, jumped down the side of 

reach an impasse," he explained.
airport is considered one of thethe plane and ran." 
''The structure is designed to lend
most dangerous in Spain. During of Longview, Wash., told the the past 21 years it has been the more cogency to areas of faculty 200I:Another survivor, Roland Brusco 
participation in governance and
scene of six other aviation disasters
Portland Oregonian newspaper the Mar30
processes of appeal where diffi­
that have claimed 2S2 lives.
passengers were told the Dutch jet 
culties exist." 

A Space Odyssey
History's worst previous air trag­
The AAIP first began studying
edy was the March 1974 crash of a 
the question of collective bargain­
Students arrested Turkish DClO near Paris, in which Mar3I
ing several years ago. In february A346 persons perished. 
of 197S a Faculty Senate question­
[continued from page 31 The previous worst collision bet­
ween two occurred naire revealed 2S percent of the Clockwork Orange.
aircraft near 
then shined a flashli"ht in my faculty responding in favor of
eyes," the student stated, "and 1 Zagreb, Yugoslavia, when a British Airways Trident and a collective bargaining, 2S opposed,
chartered 7:30 8 IO:OO pm
wear contacts. The cop then· says Yugoslavian airliner collided on and SO percent desiring more my eyes look glassy and he told up Sept. 10. 1976. All 176 persons information. 
that we were going downtown." During the 1975-76 academic Engineering Auditorium 
The policeman, according to the aboard both planes were killed. 
year, the Faculty Senate and AAUP
student, opened up the back door Pan American said its flight 
co-sponsored a series of speakers Ad...ission SI.OO
of the car. "We didn't know carried 396 persons, including 364, 
and faculty discussions on collec­
whether or not he wanted us to get who boarded in Los Ageles. 14 who 
tive bargaining.

in," he continued. "The cop then. boarded in New York, a crew of 16 pushed us up against the car, . ................................ handcuffed us, and took us down-• • 
to'i~~;~· the .student said, they. Schneider lectur~e .• c0 11eg•1at e •+ 
were gtven neither breath. blood. • 
nor u~ine tests. According to Slated ~ ' unofficial sources, the arrests were • • made by uniformed policemen. . . . . ' 
The officers involved in the John A. Schneider, pres1dent ot .• • arrests could not be reached for theCBSBroadcas~Group,atrus~ee. Jazz Festlva •
comment. and member of the Executive 
1 

Committee of Notre Dame. will • • . Students to blame for crackdown deliver a talk Wednesday afternoon • entitled "Richard Nixon. Archie • 
A •1 I •Z
prI

This crackdown, according to bar Bunk~r and Wall Street: A day in • .... owners, would not be necessary if the L1fe of a Broadcaster." ..... 
~--· 
I the students would co-operate. The The talk is part of the Executive • • manager of Nickes's said that the Series. The objectives of the series • • police were responding to com-are "To expose the business lead-plaints made by the neighborhood. ers of tomorrow to the thoughts, • T1•ftket Prl•fteS • He also remarked that if the ideas and aspiration.s of the busi-• "' "' • students were not breaking the law ness leaders of today; and To 
so blatantly, and if they didn't litter • 
the neighborhood with cans, bot-deepen understanding and cooper-• 
Frl•day $5 50 
ties and glasses, the crackdwon ation -b~tween th~. bu~.iness and • • • would be unnecessary. "What is academic commumt1es. needed is co-operation from the Schneider earned a Bachelor of • ) • students," the manager said. Science degree from Notre dame Sat. (afternoon $2.50 • 
Rick Kanser, owner of the Li-and holds an honorary degree of • brary, agreed that the crackdown Doctot of Laws from Trinity Univer-• • was a neighborhood reaction to the sity in San Antonio, Texas. He Sat EVENING $4 00 commotion caused by students. began his broadcasting career in • • • "The neighborhood needs to be 1949 with WGN Radio. Chicago. : • reassured," Kanser said. "lf the He joined CBS in 19SO and in 196S kids would stop going out of the bar he was appointed president of the AlJ $8 00 • 
with drinks or beer, singing dirty CBS Television Network and vice-• seaSOft paSS • • songs at 3 a.m., I don't think president and director of CBS. t:~Ye;~g ~:s ~ep~rfbli~~-thelfwath es Schneider_ will speak from_ 3 to • N D SMC StUdentS• $7 00 · •
P 11 11 4:30 p.m. 111 Room 122 ot the .&.. • ~ 
of the bar nothing would happen." Hayes-Healy Building. .................................. 

by Kathleen ConneUy 
Notre Dame students are in no danger of contamination from meat or dairy products in the dining halls or vending machines on campus, despite contamination incidents in the Michigan area. 
Recent articles in the South Bend Tribune and in a publication by The Kalamazoo Nature Center have reported several deaths and illness­es in Michigan farming communi­ties that have been attributed to contamination. 
Michael Yuhas of Purchasing and Cost Control said that there is no danger of such contamination of campus. Dairy products for the dining halls and vending services are obtained from Schenkel's Dairies Inc. located in Huntington, Ind. 
The problem seems to have many origins. Some feed bags containing grain for livestock have been found to contain' poisonous fertilizer introduced in a storage area prior to shipment. In addition, some barns and feed cribs that are in use are made from wood having highty toxic finishes; The chemicals 
-have contaminated the systems of beef imd dairy cattle and have then been transmitted to humans. 
Although many farmers' herds are dying or being exterminated, there is still 'danger from undetec­ted contamination. 
Although the food at the dming halls is safe from such contamina­tion, Decker suggests that · when 
buying meat or dairy products from local stores, students and faculty. should be wary of the product if it originates from Michigan or border areas. 
Geri Decker, librarian at the Architecture Library, first brought the problem to the attention of The Observer, expressing a concern that students and faculty at the University 'may be consuming the meat and' dairy products from these areas in Michigan. 
Peace Corps 

meeting 

A meeting-reception will be held Tuesday in the south alcove of the student lounge in LaFortune Stu­dent Center, from 3:30p.m. to 5:00 p.m.._ for all students interested in the Peace Corps. 
Mr. William Laast, associate director of the Peace Corps in' Ghana, will tell of the work and needs for volunteers in Africa, expecially Ghana, and will meet and answer student inquiries. Refreshments will be served. 
From April1 througbJune 14, you can fly roundtrip from New York to Luxerifoourg for only $410. 
That's $89less than the youth fare you'd pay on any other scheduled airline. (From Chicago you pay $458 and save $103.) All you have to do is be under the.age of 24. 
There are no booking restrictions. And no skimping on meals or service. Because we give you the same service you'd get from other airlines, without the same high costs. So, if you're not flying Icelandic to Europe, you're spending more than you have to. 
We'll give you the best deal. 
Save $89 ~njet fares 
to Europe and book 



anytime you want. 
r--------------------­
1Icelandic Airlines, De~. #CN l 
I ~ :~: ~:~j ~~;~t o;·~~t~ tree: (800> 555-1212. IIPlease send information on all Icelandic's low-cost fares to Europe. I 
I Name I I I
I Address 1 
I City State Zip I 
~=~~~~~~~==-----------~



Icelandic
·Lowest Jet fares to Europe of any scheduled airline. 
'!_uesday, March 29, 1977 the observer 
Case claims bias against Whites 
by Michael Lewis 

This fall the Supreme Court will hear a case that some say will change admissions programs at graduate and professional schools throughout the country. 
Last September, the special ad­missions program for minorities at the University of California at Davis medical school was ruled unconstitutional by the California Supreme Court because it discrim­inated against whites. 
Allen Bakke, a white who was twice rejected by the medical school, filed the charges. 
The UC-Davis special admissions program reserves 16 out of 100 places for minority applicants. Bakke contends this program al­lowed a less qualified minority student enter the school ahead of him. 
Controversy had surrounded the 

case since the decision, and minority groups claim that UC­Davis never tried to win the case. These same critics fear an inade­quate defense at the Supreme Court could hurt all affirmative action programs. 
David Link, dean of the Notre Dame law school, differs with his 

NOTICES 

Logan Volunteers: St. Patrick's Day Dance Wednesday, March 30, 7:30 ­
10:00 pm in the Logan Cafeteria. Any questions call Art Koebel at 8696 or Jeanne Conbay at 4347. 
Tickets for the April 17 Led Zeppelin concert at Market Square Arena in Indianapolis and the April 14 Rush­Starcastle concert at Fort Wayne Coliseum are now on sale at Just for the Record in the 100 Center, Mishawaka. 
Greyhound Bus to Chicago leaves Main circle every Friday at 5:45. Call Tom at 8338 for seat reservation 
Management Work-Study Program This Summer at Quantico, Virginia. Free rrr-ansportation. Free room and board. Free Books and Uniforms, and $115.00 per week. See the selection team in LaFortune Student Center, March 29-April 1, 9am to 4pm. 
California Street String Band for Hoedowns, parties, and dances. Call 288-7732. 
Easter Buses to Chicago will be leaving the Main Circle at 5:45 on both Wed. Arril 6 and Thurs. April 
7. Tom at 8338 for seat reservations 
Term Papers Typed. Also, other misc. typing. Very reasonable rates. Call 272-8464 after 6pm. 
Europe-Worldwide academic discounts year round S.A. T.A. 4228 First, Tucker, Ga30084 (800 J 241­9082. 
Accurate, fast typing. Mrs. Donoho 232-0746. Hours: Sam to Spm. 
WILL SEW RABBIT PELTS INTO JACKET FOR NOMINAL FEE. 
FOR RENT 

Furnished ten room house, available last of May. Suitable for 5 or 6 students. One block east of Memor­ial Hospital. Call 232-4412 for more information. 
Summer Rental and or next aca­demic year. Great house. 8 rooms fully furnished. 4 bedrooms, 2 baths. Washer, dryer. Large lawn. Near Jefferson-Eddy. 234-1972. 
5 Bedroom house, real nice, large living room and kitchen, tully fur­nished, close to campus, has burglar 
• alarm, call Charlie Moore 272-7180. 
4 bedroom house, furnished and ' fully carpeted in 1076. $340.00 per 
month, gas and electric not included 
914 Grandview. Near Colfax School 
on LWW. Call 288-7894 anytime. 
Terry brown. 
Two Bedroom house to rent. Summer and or school year. 1012 
Eddy  Street.  $120.00  mo.  plus  
utilities.  Call  Oddies  Harris  at  
232-8563.  

Rent my upstairs $40.00 per month. Call 233-1329. 
Rooms for rent this summer. Very reasonable and just a few blocks from Notre Dame. Phone 277-3604. 
Excellent 4-6 bedroom houses in fine ruHghbomoods.. On and off Riverside Drive. Contact Mr. Gatto 234-6688' 
opinion. . 
"First of all, the Bakke case is limited by its facts," Link said. He also noted that the UC-Davis program is very specific, using quantitive criter-ia for admissions. 
Link emphasized that the effects of the case may not be as catast­rophic as some predict, stating "Schools using an individualized admissions program will not be affected by the Bakke case. For example, we use an individualized process, and no part of our academ­ic or admissions programs will be affected by this case." 
''In our program we analyze the applicant's transcript, instead of relying solely upon GPA, and we even analyze the LSAT to some extent. We also look at many other factors, such as motivation and leadership potential," Link said. 
''The crucial statement in all of these cases," Link continued, "is whether the state has a compelling interest to train minorities for professional positions.'' 
He explained this literally means "balancing the scales" and weigh­ing the state's interest in training minorities against the student's right to be treated as an individual. 
''The California Supreme Court ruled that if the interests of the government could be served by a 

Furnished 4 bedroom house for rent next Sept. Phone 277-3604. 
4 bedrooms, furnished apartment within walking distance of campus. Call William Hill 232-1724. · 
Summer apartment 2 bedroom, completely furnished including dishwasher and air conditioning. Fully capeted. In nice area within short walk to ND. Contact Chris after 6pm at 277-0953. 
LOST AND FOUND 

Lost a pair of tinted prescription glasses on the second floor women's bathroom of Lafortune. Please return the:TI to 135 Lewis or call 6240. I can't afford a new pair. 
Lost: 5 subject spiral notebook, green. Please call 8686. 
Lost: sap ph ire ring between Dl and North quad. Sentimental value call Mary Beth 4-5470. 
Found: 1 eyeglass case with wire rimmed glasses from Village Court Optical -Elm Grove Wisconsin. Contact 284-4552. 
Lost: a silver modern pen Friday before break. Brand : "Auroa". If found please call Monica 7870, it's very important. 
Reward for 5 year old Silver Seiko Watch lost in ACC before break Much sentimental value Larry 
287-8301  or  return  to  lnst  and  
Found.  
WANTED  

Need ride to New Orleans for Easter break. Call Kevin 8892. 
Need ride to a·1d .from Ft. Lauder­dale for Easter break. Can leave Wed. will help with expenses. Please contact Cris 4-4983 or Beth 4-4992. 
Need ride to NYC area to leave April 4 or 5. Share driving and expenses. Call 8820. 
Wanted_: Married student couple (one ch1ld okay) to live in, and be companions to 3 teen age boys. Room and board in exchange. Would be required to cook family dinner, do light housework and do minor house repairs. Exchange references. Call 288-1411 or 291­1814. Ask for Joan. 
Need riders to St. Louis for Easter break. Will leave Thur. afternoon. Call 4-4994. 
FOR SALE 

For Sale: '74 Ford Elite, dark blue with white vinyl roof, AM-FM stereo, air, power steering and brakes, rear defroster, 351 V-8. $3250 or best offer. Call 272-9895. 
For Sale: Vivitar 135 mm 1:2.8 Autotelephoto lens, with case. Seldom used. Call Chris 8208. 
69 Camaro, rebuilt engine or 69 Fiat Sport Spyder, 288-2484. 
For Sale: Yamaha Guitar FG160, new last June, seldom used. Call Dick Hockman, Moreau 7735. 
MOTHER'S DAY AFGHANS Gifts, cherished forever. Many colors available. 259-1304. 
more racially neutral program, then the previous provisions at UC-Davis are unconstitutional," he continued. The Court last fall suggested alternatives to the prog­ram, including more aggressive recruiting and setting up non-quan­titative admissions criteria. 
But Link noted the case may have some effect. "A ruling for Bakke will ban quota systems and change some programs, but per­haps some need to be changed. A school that bases admissions on quantitative criteria like GPA and LSAT alone, yet makes exceptions for minorities, could have a prob­lem on its hands. "However," he said, "since I'm a believer in an individualized admissions process, I think they should be changed anyway." 
Donald Kommers, director of the Notre Dame Center for Civil Rights, echoed Link's comments. "There is no reason a minority student cannot be accepted in a single, individualized process that takes many factors into considera­tion,'' he said. 
Kommers also said that the Center and the law school are considering the possibility of colla­borating on a· statement to be sent to the Supreme Court concerning the Bakke case. 
PERSONALS 

Beautify Notre Dame-clean up 324. Rug cleaners needed. 
Happy Birthday Lynn! Have a great day. Sharon and Linda. 
There once was a coed named Mary Who guys thought was cute but contrary Though looks she often drew She left them all blue Until along came her tamer of the shrew. 
Dear Gretchen and Munch, Thanks for the great time at the Abbey Motel Saturday night. 
C.O and 1.0. 

Bob Hockey is over, will I see you again? JJ 
Sean or Shawn or is it just plain John? Happy Birthday. That's all, just Happy Birthday. If I could remem­ber it over a break I can surely remember-it while we are in school. Have a good day!! " 
FRESHMEN, VOTE TODAY! MULDOON, NUSSMAN, HENT­SCHELL, KORBEL WRITE-IN CAMPAIGN. YOU MUST WRITE IN ALL FOUR NAMES. 
-chic.O.t=iavevouine'dcol9-at;-v;t? I've heard it does wonders. 
Vote for Rick Gabbianelli for Ugly Man on Campus. 
Robin, Please come to the Grotto soon, must pray. 
Tom 

Dear Mary Do you want to play some one or. one? 
Mr. Basketball 

Do you beleive that balloons can be perverted? If not, ask for Punkin, 
Tony, I heards the peanut buHer in Acapulco is excellent. 
Rosemary 

Brian Now is the time to take life easy with 
love.  Happy Birthday!!  LDve, Sandra  
Lynn.  

I wish you a very Happy Birthday. "love always" Pete 
Night Gown Forgetter, Don't forget it's your birthday. I love you Forever 
Give John Kenward a birthday kiss at 11 :00 tonight -call 1689 or drop by 221 Dillon. Happy 21st John!! Love,. George, Vince, Bill, Brian, Dan, Mikey, Dave, Dave, Tom, Pumpkin, Dan, Joan, Sheila, Connie Eve, Barbara, Diane, Druz, Sally, Joyce, Robin, Jane, Nancy and last but certainly not least, Chris. 
It's throw· Briim Schoenrock in the Lake Day!!!Call for an appointment and wish him a happy birthday. (1072). Happy 21st. 
Love, all of the above plus Sandy 

8 

. the observer Tuesday, March 29, 1977 

Warriors down NC for college title 
by Ray O'Brien Sports Writer 

In a storybook ending to a classic 1977 NCAA championship, the sentimental favorites, Marquefte University, downed North Carolina by a score of 67-59 at the Omni in Atlanta, Georgia. 
Every athlete or coach dreams of "going out in style," but it is only a lucky few that ever experience the kind of emotions Marquette coach AI McGuire experienced in his final college coaching appearance. 
Earlier in the season things were not so perfect for the fiery coach. McGuire's team went into a tail­spin toward the end of the season after he announced that he would make this year's campaign his last as Marquette coach. Few people expected the Warriors to tum around and take the national championship. 
McGuire's dream looked in trouble from the start as his front court workhorse, Bo Ellis, picked up two early fouls. This forced Marquette to switch to a zone defense, but as it turned out McGuire could do no wrong. 
Dean Smith's Tar Heels came out very cold and could not hit any of the perimeter shots the Warriors were offering them. In the early going North Carolina relied on offensive rebounds but Ellis and J~.!ome Whitehead eventually took control of the boards and with it the tempo of the ,game. 
Butch Lee was the only player able to find the range at the game's outset. He guided Marquette to a 25-17 lead as the Warriors reeled off seven unanswered points. Ellis and Whitehead recovered the few shots that Lee managed to miss. 
North Carolina seemed to be on the ropes as they became unsure of themselves on outside shots and continually ended up throwing one pass too many. McGuire's squad looked ready to break the game open after Walter Davis was forced to the bench with his third foul at the four minute mark of the first half. Six inside baskets left the Warriors with a 39-27 lead at intermission. 
However, once again the Tar Heels regrouped under Coach of the Year Dean Smith. North Carolina was happy to see that the zone McGuire used to stifle their attack in the first half (as they shot 41 percent) was replaced by a man to man defense. 
North Carolina's superb fresh­man, Mike O'Koren, got the Tar Heels back into the game with a couple of quick baskets. Four and a half minutes later the Atlantic Coast Champs had tied the game at 41-41. 
Once Carolina took the lead Smith sent them into the four·­corner offense that he has made famous; but this time it would betray him. After two minutes without a shot taken, McGuire pulled out of the zone to force the Tar Heels to shoot. Bo Ellis or drew fouls. Lee finished the· over 500 collegiate contests (who'" blocked a lay up and Marquette high scorer in the game and was· knows how many technicals?) b-e­went down and scored. McGuire's the unanimous choice as Player of fore winning his first national team never lost the lead again. the Game. championship on the last day of his 

As time dwindled down North · For McGuire it was a dream coaching career. McGuire claimed Carolina stayed close just waiting come true. The New York native: it was well worth the wait. As the for the Warriors to make a mistake weathered 26 years of coaching saying goes, ''better late than as they had several ·other times in (the last 13 with Marquette) and never!" key games in the past month. But this was AI McGuire's day and the miscues never came. All-American guard, Butch Lee, proved too fast for John Keuster in the one on one situation as he drove in fQI" layups 
*o·bserver 
Tim Bourret 

Bookstore Top T~an 
Qver·170 teams have registered for Bookstore VI, Notre Dame's answer to "Hoosier Hysteria". Teams will be accepted until the 256th squad registers. Although all the teams are not registered I thought it might be interesting to pick the pre-tournament favorites. Obviously, I do not know every player on every team. There are probably six • or seven North 
Carolina Charlottes in the  tournament  already,  so  
don't _s:all  me  and inquire  as  to  why  y~are  not  
mentioned.  

1. TILCS... This is the defending champion with a few new faces. The are led by the 1976 MVP Dave Batton, who showed last season that he plays equally well in a cold thunderstorm or in the warmth of the ACC. Joe Montana has joined this squad after two years as a backcourt star with Firin Myron Shuckman's teams. The Monongahela Minute-man was a selection for the Pennsylvania team in the Dapper Dan tournament after his senior year in high school when he was a teammate of Marquette's Ulice 

Tiles to Repeat? 
enough to cope with, The Brothers have recruited Kevin Hart, a bullish forward who played on a state finalist in Michigan in his scholastic days. Dillon Hall's Tom Feifer and Bill Seeger will be in the backcourt. 
5. 
THE NUTMEGGERS ... This was the Cinderella team of the tournamttnt last year. The Meyer brothers, Mike and Mark were both all-Bookstore selections last vear. Tim Kardok, a member of the Irish track team, and Keith McCormick (all 6-5, 230 pounds of him) make this one of the biggest teams in the tourney Mik•~ Howard, an excellent outside shooter rounds out the squad. 

6. 
LAW... This team was known as the Marxists last year. They reached the elite eight without the assets of a varsity basketball player. This year they have added Jeff Carpenter to run the offense and Lee O'Latz for added firepower and inspiration. But, Brian McAuliffe and Dana Shoapf, an all-bookstore selection last year may be the stars of the team. 


Payne. His specialty is the. rebound dunk. John: Marty Mooney and Prof. Smithburn will also play Dubenetsky ~!has been a member of the last two I throughout the tournament for this well-educated 
Bookstore champions. He was a member of Tom ' Clements' 31 Club in 1975 and a rugged rebounder and inside scorer: for the Tiles last season. The backcourt is composed of Tom Kirby, a bookstore teammate of' Batton's~. ·the last three years, and Bill Sheehan, a Rock'regular who Batton picked up· on waivers from Toby Knight's S.W.A.T. team of last season. 
2. 
EBONY MAGIC ... This is the UNLV of the Bookstore basketball. Notre Dame MVP Toby Knight, a definite Dr. J. Award candidate leads this run and gun show. But, he is not the only honorable mention All-American on this team. Luther Bradley is nearly as proficient a B-ball player as he is on the grid-iron. He was an all-state selection at Muncie North in 1973 and was a member of Fisher Hall's campus inter hall champions last month. Dan Knott, a second footballer who was a member of the interhall champions, will join Bradley upfront. Keith Tobias, another Rock regular and Carl Reid round out this full-court pressing, lighting-quick team. 

3. 
AVERAGE WHITE TEAM ... Bill Paterno's team has been in the finals the last two seasons.: Despite the fact that he is the only returnee, this will be a final four team. The Apple has done some excellent recruiting for his third A WT squad. Rusty Lisch and Mike Banks are a pair of excellent all-around athletes. 


Lisch averageli over 20 points a game at Belleville West his senior year and carried Morrissey Hall to the final four in the inter-hall championships last month. He can shoot from anywhere and has incredible jumping ability. Should AWT meet the Tiles in the 

. finals he would probably be matched up with Moritana, providing competition in another sport for the· Notre Dame QB's. Doug Buth, an ex-football player eligible under the Kurt Horton clause is a fourth plus 6-3 team member. The final guard has not been selected as of yet. 
4. THE BUTCHER BROTHERS ... Bruce Flowers' team was upset by The Nutmeggers last season, but Flowers is especially effective in Bookstore's "rugged elbowy" style. Dave Huffman also retums for added board strength. As if Huffman and Flowers was not team. 

7. 
300 PERCENT CLUB... High jumping Tim Healy, Jim Browner and Gene Smith head this Planner Hall based team. J. Browner is in his first year of bookstore competition, but Smith is a veteran who once played with Adrian Dantley's Devils two years ago. 

8. 
LINDA LOVELACE AND THE GANG THAT COULDN'T BE SWALLOWED ... Roommates Randy Haefner and Doug Becker lead this run and gun, "country style" te,am with an Ohio flavor. Nobody thought Becker could box when he started Bengals; maybe he can play b-ball too. I wouldn't stop ·him if he made his mind up to go to the hoop. 

9. 
ANUL EXPLOSIONS ... The only team in the tournament with i1s own sports information director, who will remain anonymous for now. Big John Haggar, whose father does not make slacks, is the big. man any successful Bookstore quintet needs for advancement to the sweet 16. Haggar is 6-6, 280 and resembles Grizzley Adams according to their SID. Steve Dover, who once rushed for 403 yards in a high school football game, Don Graham a 5-10 guard, Vince Browley, the returning captain who has th~ physical appearances of Charles Manson or A~e Lincoln (depending on his mood) and Dave Anderson, a 6-3 forward, complete the squad. 

10. 
GOLDEN GINZOS... The first professional Bookstore team in the classic's six year history. General Manager Dom Fanuele claims, "With the way recruiting is going today in college athletics 1 feel I need an incentive to commit my players to my team, and prevent them from playing out their options, being illegally recruited or going hardship." The terms of the salaries were not disclosed but it is believed the remuneration would be in the form of liquid (not solid) gold. Rick Valdiserri, one of the few tournament participants who is a member of an NCAA championship team, Jim Bausano, a slippery lefty and Mike Santillo are the other "professionals" on the squad. The team is still searching for a big center. a difficult task because a certain nationality is a pre-requisite. 






Sports 
Golf team opens Thursday 
The Notre Dame golf team will open its home schedule Thursday, with a dual meet against Bradley. Oakland College will meet the Irish 
on  Sunday  in  another  dual  en­ 
counter  on  the  Burke  Memorial  
Course.  

All in all, the Irish will have four shots at the dual meet record of 359 set on the Burke by the 1974 squad in a match with Tri-State Univer­sity. Fourth-year coach Noel O'Sullivan will take a 10-3 dual meet mark into Thursday's six-man event--the lowest five scores count­
:ing for the team total. ' Notre Dame is coming off an 
eighth place finish in the Univer­
sity of Miami Invitational held in 
Coral Gables, Florida, two weeks 
ago. Senior Bob Belmonte paced 
the Irish with four-round total of 
304--a 76.0 stroke average. Tim 
Saurs ani. John Lundgren posted 
77.5 averftge~ on the trip, finishing the tourney with identical 310 totals. · 
Saurs, the reigning Notre Dame Open champion, posted a 73.3 stroke average during the fall, edging out freshman Lundgren's 
73.7 total for the fall campaign. Lundgren, the Minnesota high school champion last year, cap­tured medalist honors in the Notre Dame Fall Invitational with an even-par 71 on the Burke Memor­ial. 
Another outstanding performer on the squad is sophomore Biv Wadden, who posted a 76.3 aver­age in the fall and was runnerup in the Indiana Intercollegiate Champ'­ionship. Cocaptain Rich Knee and brother Dave Knee round out tl)e Irish. Rich, a junior, finished third in the Notre Dame Open last fall while freshman Dave posted a 75.0 s•:oring average during the fall, third best on the tt>am. 
ND Sailing club places seventh 

The Notre Dame sailing team wasblessedwith sunny skies and moderate winds over the weekend, as they hosted their annual ice­breaker regatta. 
The event was held on St. Joseph's Lake under the direction of race team captain John Goodill. Notre Dame sailed over a dozen novice sailors, which in part, accounted for their poor seventh place finish. 
Ohio Wesleyan University cap­tured the regatta with Purdue ~niversity and the University of Wisconsin finishing second and third respectively. , 
Beginning this Saturday, the Notre Dame sailing club· will hold on the water lessons for all pros­pective sailors. 
For more information, there will be a sailing club meeting every Wed. evening at 6:30p.m. in room 204 of the engineering building, or call Jay at 8307 or Lory at 5408. 
Lacrosse team is victorious 
The Notre Dame lacrosse team stickmen won a thriller over the opened their I977 season this past Boilermakers, 7-6. weekend against Miami of Ohio on Tom Capotosto led the lacrosse Saturday and Purdue University on team in scoring in their weekend 
Sunday. battles with six tallies. John 
The Iri~h glided past Miami of Murphy and Jamie Joyce each Ohio 15-8 in Saturday's competi­added three goals. tion. The contest was tied .1-3 at Tim Walsh and John Romanelli the conclusion of the tirst quarter, contributed two goals on the week­but the stickmen exploded in the end, while Pat Clynes, Roger second quarter with eight unan­Monforton, Bob Driscoll, Greg 
swered goals. Anselmi, Tom Mouch and Jay On Sunday. the Notre Dame Williams each scored once. 


