,..... 
,..... 
L.. 
(1'1 
=' ~ 
~ 
Ill t 
::I 
.....
.. .. 
..c" 
41 
"E Ll. 
...: 
Ill >. 
"tt
1 ·;: " 
Ll.
"
41 
E 
"tt 
Q 
-
c 
l:lll
L.. " 41.. 
·;;:c 
41 
..Ill 
Q) V) 41 Q.
Q) .. 
Q. 
" 
Ill 
-~ 41 c 
41 

.c.c"tt -c 
.: 
Ill 
c 
t-0 41 c 
"tt 
41 
Q. 41 
"tt 
.5 c 
"' 


t"l 
= 
~ 
z 
)( 
c; 
> 

SLF continues 
Burroughs speaks on junkies 

by Kathy Mills News Editor 
Focusing on the experiences of junkies novelist William Burroughs entertained an overflow crowd in the Library Auditorium last night as he read from several of his works during the fifth evening of the Sophomore Literary Festhal (SLF). 
Burroughs, himself a former heroin addict, brought the audi­ence to laughter as he read what he termed "folklore from a federal narcotics hospital in Lexington." He told of the "do-rights," who obtain fixes from the doctor by rushing to please him. Burroughs read of one do-right who said, "'Doctor, when I die I want to be buried in the same coffin with you."' The doctor subsequently gives the patient, whom the author described as a "front-office, brown nose fiend to the bone," more medication. 
Burroughs' next reading was one he said he "stole from the collec­tive and unconscious. In fact, I dreamed it.'' It was an imaginative work, the type for which Burroughs is renowned, about junkies and a junkie doctor in St. Louis. 
Burroughs was born in St. Louis in 1914. He attended Harvard, majoring in English, and then spent time wandering in Europe. Upon his return to the United States, he was drafted, but was discharged after convincing a psy­
chiatrist that he was a schizophren­ic. The writer subsequently wander­

Mardi Gras booth judging tonight 
ed from one job to another and he 

by Maureen O'Brien "We are doing well financially," Bishop added. 
Senior Staff Reporter Don Bishop, chairman of Mardi Bishop contributes the success to Gras, stated. "We've done parti­an increase in the number of people With two days to go, the 1977 cularly wen in the car raffle and participating in Mardi Gras and to 
Mardi Gras profits are keeping up have made $6,000 more than last the warmer weather. with profits from last year and are year's raffle," he said. "We've made much more moneypasing last year's profits by a few "I'd estimate we'll have made on the weekend this year. I think donars. $19.000 in the car raffle alone," it's due to the relatively good 

ahead of last year. (photo by Tony Chifari.) 
A crowd packed into the Library Auditorium to hear William Burroughs last night. The Sophomore Literary Festival continues today with Michael Benedikt and Tennessee Williams. (photo by Dominic Yocius.) 

weather we've had this week," Bishop said. 
The Grauman Chinese Theatre, run by Lewis and St. Edward hans, has make the most money so far. Keenan's booth is in second place profitwise. The Sorin-Badin booth is third. 
This year the Mardi Gras com­mittee attempted to diversify the Mardi Gras activities by adding more and different games and improving the entertainment, ac­cording to Bishop. 
"I think everyone has enjoyed the entertainment," he stated. "I know, for instance, everyone really enjoyed the Klee brothers, Doug, Dennis and Rick ·from Keenan the other night. They played ·mostly soft Beatie music and everyone stopped gambling to listen to them sing,'' Bishop said. 
Bishop also said that "nothing disasterous" has happened at Mardi Gras. There have been no signs of cheating and the booths' operations have run smoothly. 
''The only thing that happened was the other night a man walked into Mardi Gras and one of the police officers thought he recog­nized the man. The officer called headquarters and found out there was a warrant out for the man's arrest. The man was quietly escorted out of Stepan Center and arrested,'' Bishop said. 
Tonight the South Bend Beaux Arts will perform various skits and WSND will sponsor various game shows. 
At 11 p.m., the prizes for the best booths will be awarded. This year the committee is awarding "Oscars," in keeping with the Hollywood theme. Oscars will be awarded for: Best Booth, Best Art Work, Best Construction, Most Original Design, Booth which keeps to its own theme the best and 
became a heroin addict during this the Most Congenial Booth. period. Through this experience be 
Judging the booths were nine art gained material for his first book, and architecture professors. The Junkie which is largely autobio­Mardi Gras committee will vote for graphical. However, Burroughs the Most C~mgeniai Booth. was cured of his addiction in 1957. 
Mardi Gras will close Saturday night. The California String Band During the late fifties, Bur­will play and at midnight, Fr. roughs began to produce surrealis­Theodore Hesburgh, University tic books, among them Naked president, will draw the winning Lunch, The Soft Machine and The raffle ticket for the car. Ticket That Exploded, which earn­
"All I can say," Bishop con­ed him the label "avant-garde." cluded, "is that·people have done a Burroughs demonstrated his inclin­lot of work and we've had a very ation toward this type of fiction as good time." continued on page 7 
Martha's Vineyard votes to secede from state 
CHILMARK, Mass. [AP] -Resi­
dents of pastoral Martha's Vine­
yard island, angered by the pros­
pect of losing their only delegate to 
the state legislature, are trying to 
secede from the Commonwealth 
of Massachusetts. 
And there is talk of seceding 
from the entire nation to become 
eligible for U.S. foreign aid. 
Louis King, a Chilmark select­man who voted against secession, said, ''The purpose of all this is to gain publicity.'' 
Selectmen on the island, a summer spa and a paradise for fishing and yachting, cast their 10-2 vote for secession at a meeting Wednesday night. One seces­sionist said he would try to con­vince the island's neighbor, Nan­tucket to do the same. 
In Colonial times, the political leanings of Nantucket were toward England. Martha's Vineyard, a little less Tory, ws considered almost neutral in the Revolutionary War. And it is still common for Nantucket residents, when jour­neying to the mainland, to say, "I'm going to America." 

Massachusetts is trying to trim its legislature from 240 to 160 members. That would lump Mar­tha's Vineyard and Nantucket into a district with several communities from Cape Cod. The Cape Cod towns have greater year-round pop:.Iiations than both islands com­bined. 
"We'll be disenfranchised," said state Rep. Terrence P. McCarthy, an independent from the Vineyard town of Oak Bluffs. 
The secession was McCarthy's idea. He said he is unclear on the procedure ior pulling out. But he said a proclamation will be sent to Gov. MichaelS. Duk~,•:::: listing the island's grievances and its desire to secede. 
Daniel Taylor, legal aide to Dukakis, said it would take con­siderable research to determine whether the island could secede from the state. "Give me six months and ask me then," he said. 
"We're stuck out in the middle of the Atlantic. No one really knows our problems except us,' said Joseph E. Sollitto Jr., chair­man of the all-island board of selectmen for Martha's Vineyard. 
McCarthy said he may ask congressman in whose district the island is located, Rep. Gerry Studds, to file federal legislation to make Martha's Vineyard a sepa­rate state. On the other hand, he said, "Maybe \Ye should secede from the country. That way we'd get all sorts of foreign aid.'' 
The islands have had their own state reprPsentatives since the commonwealth was founded in 1780. 
Martha's Vineyard is within sight of the Cape Cod mainland five miles away. But Nantucket is 25 miles at sea and a two-hour ferryboat ride from Woods Hole on Cape Cod. 
The Vineyard has about 8,000 vear-round ~esidents and Nantuc­ket has about 5,500. But in the summer. island populations swell live times over. and local officials want their own state legislator to represent hoth islands. 

~--.----...........---...------~-­
~~---~-........-~--~-~--.---, .---.------:-...--­
the observer Friday, Febraury 18, 1977 

---~~ ---~ 
I" 
-On Can1pus Toda~'-··-1 
3:30pm sophomore literary festival, michael benedikt, editor, poet, professor at hampshire college, library aud. 
4 pm swim meet, northern illinois univ., at nd 
4:30pm colloquim "zeta functions and the plancheral formula" by prof. paul j. sally, univ. of chicago, room 226, computer center/math bldg. 
5:15pm mass and dinner at bulla shed 
7:30-10 pm network workshop, sponsored by nd-smc world hunger coalition and cila, hayes-healy aud. 
7:30pm hockey, denver at nd, ace 
8 pm mardi gras. mardi gras dancers hourly, division of beaux arts ballet co, also wsnd game shows throughout the evening, stepan center. 
8 pm show, ice capades, ace 8 pm sophomore literary festival, tennessee williams, play­wright, washington hall 8 Pm black cultural arts festival, delano lewis, business executive, vice president of c&p telephone, washington 
de, washington hall 8 pm bridge, duplicate bridge, university club. 9 pm neon wilde band in recording session, admission free, 
nazz 

saturday 
9-12 am network workshop 
noon, 4, 
show, ice capades, ace

8pm akd mini-conference, sociology-anthropology, rm. 206­
1-4:30 
209 o'shag 

1: 30-4 pm network workshop 
2pm 
7:30pm 
8pm 8pm 
9pm sunday 2,6pm 3pm 

7pm 7:30, 10pm 8pm 
swim meet, purdue univ. at nd. 
hockey,denveratnd,acc sophomore literary festival, denise levertov, poet, library aud. 
mardi gras, rock music, Stepan center black cultural arts festival, "get your fashion together" 
student fashion show, monogram room, ace, tickets $2.50 in advance, $3.50 at the door. nd first jazz combo, in recording session, admission 
free, nazz show, ice capades, ace concert, annual young people's recital, library aud. workshop, decision making sponsored by smc career 
development center, lemans, executive board room 
black cultural arts festival, performance by the corine morse williams dance school, washington hall. film, "king kong" with faye wray engineering aud, 
tickets $1 . film series, "rocco and his brothers," carroll hall smc, 
tickets: $1 

*The Observer Tonight's Theme: Oklahoma Night Editor: Joe "Okie" 
Bauer Ass't Night Editors: Rose­
mary "Wind" Mills and Katie 
"Tumbleweeds" Kerwin 
Layout Staff: Ravinder Sethi, 
Laurie "Dustbowl" McNulty, Steve "Tequila" Kendra Editorial Layout: Pat "Dis­placed Person" Hanifin Features Layout: Chris Smith Sports Layout: Tony "Sage­brush" Pace, Frank "Tor­nado" LaGrotta Typists: Stephanie Urillo of the Great Salt Plains, Gwen Coleman, Sue Shellenbarger 
E.M.T: Terri Harlan Day Editor: Mary Pat Tarpey Copy Reader: Barb Breiten­stein, Tom "Treeless" Byrne 
ThP Oh"'''"'" publ"hed Monday throu~h I mlav and WPf•klv dunng the '>~Jrnnwr '"'"on. PX"'Pl dunng th•· Pxam dnd va< at ron pPnod'i The ()b<,Prwr" publ"hed by 'tudents oi th•· Lnrv•·r'>lt\' ot NotrP Uam<' and '>t MMv·' Colle~" Suh'>trtptrons m,t\ IH· pur< ha'>Pd tor $20 per year 
li> lit.rwr '>enw<,terJ !rom I liP< lbsPr­vPr. !lox () Notr•· Ddmf•, lndrana 4f,))f> 'we ond 'Ia,, po'>tdgP paid. Notn· DamP, lndrand 4ViSfJ 
I h•· Oh'><'rV!'r " d m••mh•·r ot t hP A""' tdt<·d Pn·" AII r"produ< t t<m nghl-.,· drf' rt"·,Prvt•rl 

to make men the agg:-essors and men force women into passivity." 
Hatred of women is the major cause of rape. in the view of Storaska. !Rapists are unable to cope with the standard male­female relationships. He comment­ed that rapists feel rejected by society and wish to be treated like human beings. 
Storaska indicated that men and women are conditioned to respond in certain ways. "If a woman is smiling to a man on a street, he thinks she's coming on,·· he said. 
According to Storaska, condition­ing is also a factor that affects dating behavior. "The guy feels he must bump into her, caress her or something to prove himself. His peers want to hear about it and almost expect it," he remarked. "Men take sex, women give it. Men gain from it, women lose," he observed. 
Seventy percent of all rape 
victims S1toraska reported, know their attacker. He asserted that 35 percent are raped while on dates, while only 30 percent are assaulted by complete strangers. 
Remaining calm is the key to repulsing an attacker, according to Storaska. He stressed that it is imperative for the victim to com­municate to the rapist that he is a human being, not an animal. Storaska recommended two courses of action fo:r those being assaulted. 
"Saying you're several months pregnant has worked more than anything else in rapes," Storaska noted. 


ERRATUM 
The Observer regrets editorial­izing in its head line on a story about Frederick Cowan in yester­day's Obse1rver by referring to Mr. Cowan as a "psychopath." A man who is Nazi sympathizer and shot gun murders four people is not necessarily a psychopath unless declared so by a psychiatrist. We regret the error. 

ihz t:ulmtiaJ 

Fancak£ Hous£ 
OUR SPECIALTY OVEN BAKED APPLE PANCAKES 
You'II be back for more 
US 31 (Dixieway North) in Roseland (Across from Holiday Inn) 

Rape prevention tips given 
by Pat Payne He reported that attacks to the worst,'' said Storaska. He added The president of the National eyes and groin area are extremely that women should not feel asham­Organization for the Prevention of effective. He emphasized a calm, ed to have been raped. Rape described society as "one sudden approach, since the attack­Storaska declared that the only 
.big rape assembly line" last night er expects either complete submis­remedy for rape will be societal in a presentation to an overflow sion or a frantic struggle. reform. "Until there's total equal­crowd in Carroll HaiL "Rape is as bad as anything that ity, thert;'ll always be rape. I'm not 
Frederic Storaska, in addition to can ever happen to you, but not the, a feminist, but a humanist.'' being president, also founded the organization twelve years ago. "The problem with many rape prevention groups is that they tell you what to do after being raped, but not what to do when he's there," he said. "Rape is the only crime in America where the victim is blamed for inducing the crime,'' he remarked. "We can't blame women for the weakness of men, but we do. Women are conditioned 



SMC Coffeehouse Is Coming Back!!! 

Drop in for a late nigh1t snack Tonite At 10 p.m. 
T.R. Paulding Martha Paulding 
Held Over 

9th Smash Week!!!!! 
IT'S TBE MOST HILARIOUS SUSPENSE BIDE OF YOUB LD'E! 

SILVER STRERI-1 
S!an•ng GENE WILDER • 

No Passes or Discount Tickets JILL CLA YBURGH ­RICHARD Weelrdays 7:00-9:30 Sat. &b.at 2:00-4:3().7:00-9:40 
POll1IM n 
Held Over!! 

BONNIE 
7 :30 · 9 :30 Sat . Sun 
AND 
Mon. (holiday) 
1 
:45 • 3 :35 • 5 :25 • I'IVI\~ 

7 
:30 • 9:40 pm. '-'lAII&;,


11IEYAIN'T. "FUN WITH DICK&JANE" 


George Segal -Jane Fonda -Ed McMahon 
Stereo Scene Pre-Inventory Tax Clearance and Demo Sale 


SAVINGS 
10-50% 
We Will Not Be Undersold Sale Ends Weds., Feb. 23 
PHONE 287-1400 

THE STEREO 

3302 MISHAWAKA AVE 
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA 

SCENE 

Friday, Febraury 18, 1977 the observer 



Committee approves $50tax rebate 
by Jim Luther Associated Press Writer 

WASIDNGTON (AP] -A tax rebate of $50 for almost every American who earned $25,000 or less last year and a permanent tax cut for 45 million persons or families who use the standard deduction was approved yesterday by the House Ways and Means Committee. 
The rebate, a variation of one proposed by President Carter as the centerpiece of his economic stimulus program. would be a one-time-only deal, payable to most recipients in May or June. The permanent tax cut, averaging $90 a year, would become effective on May 1 by lowering the amount withheld from paychecks. 
At the same time, the panel agreed to extend through 1978 the existing $35-per-person tax credit and a special credit for the working poor. 
The committee continued work on business tax-cut sections of the plan that Carter has proposed in an effort to spur the economy. Chairman AI Ullman, D-Ore., planned to finish the bill yesterday evening. 
The vote on the rebate was close. 
The committee voted 20 to 17 against a Republican effort to kill the rebate. An effort to delete the 
higher standard deduction failed, 24 to 10. Here are elements of the indivi­
dual  tax  cuts  approved  by  the  
panel:  
-Almost  every  American  who  

earned $25,000 or less in 1976 would get a $50 rebate check. Persons who earned $25,000 to $30,000 would get less than $50. Those at $30,000 income or more would get nothing. The ' panel attempted to ensure that nobody gets more than one $50 check. -The current system of minimum and maximum standard deductions for taxpayers who do not itemize deductions would be replaced by a flat deduction. For single persons the deduction would be $2,400; for couples filing a joint return, $3,000. 
The committee rejected Carter's plan for a $2,200 standard deduc­tion for single persons. since that would have resulted in a tax increase averaging $52 for 2.1 million persons. 
The committee plan would mean a tax cut of about $90 for 44.6 million returns, with virtually all the benefits going to taxpayers earning $20,000 or less a year. 
By raising the standard deduc­tion, the committee would worsen what is called the "marriage penalty." That penalty now is up to $1,300; The bill would raise it to $1,800. Carter has referred to the 

Hitchhiking incident brings 
f ND SMC d 

d • -
VICe



a rom 
by Chris Hopkins 

A recent hitchhiking incident involving three St. Mary's students has prompted precautionary advice from both Notre Dame and St. Mary's officials. 
In a letter to St. Mary's Dean of Students, Kathleen Rice, Notre Dame Dean of Students, James Roemer, expressed his concern about female students hitchhiking. "This is not the first goofy situation we have had and it won't be the last involving people trying to pick up girls as they hitch around the vicinity." 
Director of Notre Dame Security, Arthur Pears, described hitchhik­ing as a "very dangerous opera­tion" for women because of their ''vulnerability.'' 
·'A girl will get in a car and by not being as strong as a man she increases the danger, especially if she is picked up by an individual whose motives are not based on the best of intentions,'' said Pears. · 
Pears indicated that Notre Dame Avenue and Eddy Sreet in particu­lar are known to be popular hitchhiking location. 
"This area is easy prey for assault and robbery," he said. "I discourage both male and female students from hitchhiking. A stu­dent should try using private transportation such as the bus or a taxi. Anyone in this day and age should be deterred from hitchhik­ing simply from reading the daily newspaper accounts of assaults and robberies." 
Although there have not been any official reports of hitchhiking incidents, Pears urged students to report any such offenses. ''The response time is a critical part in security. Many times a person calls a friend before security and this only hinders our process." 
Pears cited statistics from a national survey which showed that 
Men's dorms to host dance 
The North Quad men's dorms will sponsor a dance tonight in the North Dining Hall from nine to one. Entertainment will be provided by North Star, a band from Chicago. Refreshments will be served. 
eans persons. the check would be $So. 
penalty as an incentive for persons to live together outside marriage. 
It works this way: Under the new proposal. two single persons living together could get a total standard deduction of $4,800. But if they married they would be limited to the one $3,000 deduction. -The key part of the 1975 tax reduction act, a tax credit of $35 per person or two percent of the first $9,000 of taxable income up to $180, would be extended through Dec. 31, 1978. It is due to expire at the end of 1977. This costs the Treasury about $10 billion a year in revenue. -A special earned-income credit for working families who earn less than $8,000 a year also would be extended for another year, through 1978. This allows such families to reduce their taxes by up to $400 a year and goes to many families who pay no tax at all. This costs about $1.3 billion a year. 
The committee, in trying to make sure each person is limited to one $50 rebate, conceded that the effort would mean delays of two months or more before millions of persons receive their checks. 
Such a delay would partially thwart the aim of the tax rebate, which is to get billions of dollars into the hands of consumers quick­ly so they can spend it and spur the economy. 
Under the committee's plan, here is how the rebate would work: 
In May or June, every person who was included as a taxpayer or dependent on a tax return in 1976 
would rebate. For

get a most 
on  the  average  assaults  are  not  
reported  until  an  hour  after  the  
crime,  while  for  robberies,  the  
delay averages 31 minutes.  

"We cannot enforce hitchhiking laws because they are not within our jurisdiction, but we will assist any student who comes to the main gate or calls security as well as reporting the incident to the proper authorities," said Pears. 
Anthony Kovatch, director of St. Mary's Security remarked that hitchhiking "cannot be stopped," despite his repeated warnings. 
However, his department offers an escort service for St. Mary's girls who call from the main gate after midnight. 
Kovatch did not express much confidence in the idea of calling a taxi, few taxi drivers will respond to a call from a local bar which will only offer a SO cent fare. 
"One thing that I would like to stress is that the girls should check for a Notre Dame parking sticker before getting in the car because the vast majority of Notre Dame students can be considered safe," said Kovatch. "Taking this one step further the hitchhiker should try and get the car's license plate number." 


(i2_AI\~ 

Tax returns that included more than $30,000 income in 1976 would get no rebate. Those between $25,000 and $30,000 would get less than $50 per person. Those earning $25,000 or less who paid less than $50 tax would get a rebate of all they paid. 
An estimated 36 million persons who receive nontaxable Social Se­curity, Supplemental Security In­come or railroad retirement bene­fits would be eligible for a $50 "bonus" in lieu of a rebate. But as many as half those persons have some taxable income, which means they might get the regular $50 rebate, too. 
It is that possibility that promp­ted the committee to adopt an amendment saying that any person who receives a $50 rebate may not also receive a $50 "bonus." A major side-effect of that amend­ment would be to delay mailing of the bonus checks until late July or early August. when, it is expected, all the regular rebate checks should have been mailed. 
However, there was considerable question among the committee members and Carter administra­tion officials whether the efforts to prevent a double payment would be successful. 
In an effort to get the bonus checks to as many persons as possible, the committee added to 
RECORDS 
"~-New Releases Now In Stock *Marshall Tucker *Todd Rundgron *Fleetwood Mac
*G~orge Benson *Pink Floyd 
ACROSS FROM TOWN & COUNTRY SHOPPING CENTER 
MON-SAT10-9 pm, SUN_DAY 12 • 6 pm 
the list of recipients: receiving both the rebate and the 
-An estimated 450,000 coal mi-bonus, as far as is possible. 
ners who get monthly government -Veterans and veterans' widows 
benefits because they suffer from who otherwise would not qualify for 
black-lung disease. Some of these the rebate or bonus. This could be 
may qualify for a rebate, or as many as 500,000 persons. 
otherwise for a bonus. They could At a White House meeting with 
not get both. Ways and Means Democrats yes­
-The 11.5 million recipients of terday, Carter was said to have 
Aid to Families with Dependent expressed an understanding of why 
Children, the main state-federal the committee was doing its tin­
welfare program. Most of these kering. And while he did not 
recipients do not file income tax specifically endorse the changes, 
returns. In cases where they do, his aides worked closely with the 
such families would be barred from committee in drafting them. 
r------~--------~ 
1TO: Laurte, Carl, Dave,1 1 Ed, Tom, Bob, Dave, 1I Mike and John 1 I THANKS I 

~-------~~------J
~*****************~ 


~· [Zi]?
~1nema
il . 
~Sunday, Monday ~ 7:30,_10 p.m. ilEngineering Aud. 
presents ~ 
Th . . il 
e 0 ngma1 ilKING il 
~ 

KONG ~ 

t.~i~~~~J~*********t 

'1---..r/ 
v 

r-­
fl'here IS a difference!!! 
PREPARE FOR: 


~-l!lJ].~ 
GMAT • GRE • OCAT CPAT • VAT • SAT 
Our broad range of programs provides an umbrella of test­ing know-how that enables us to offer the best preparation available. no matler which course is taken. Over 38 years of experience and success. Small classes. Voluminous home study materials. Courses that are constantly up­dated. Permanent centers open days & weekends all year. Complete tape facilities for review of class lessons and for use of supplementary materials. Make-ups for missed les­sons at our centers. 
ASK ABOUT OUR COMPACT COURSES 
20~0 W. Devon Sfa,t;r~
l'

Ch1cago, Ill. 60645 , 1 ~~"•p N. (312) 764-5151 lVI 
EDUCATIONAL CENTER 

Outs1de NY State Onlv 
CALL TOLL FREE 
TEST PRfPARATtON

800 221 9840
" " '-,P[(IALI~T~ ',INLI 1411• 
PREPARE FOR THE NEW MCAT WHERE THERE IS ALWAYS A DIFFERENCE 

!\ 

~~~A-•.•-• • ••' ''' ' • • • • • • • • '• • • 
•' .~ .•' ••• .•' •'.• .•\ </' ,.•·'' II ..,-..... •'' , • .J.' J ~· ~ ~ ·.,:-..>-. .J1 -' .' •. .) .(".II _,..,.,...A-_,"' ,,· .\~ t" .t~ _,· .t' _,· .i".4"... 1~ .J.-1-. _,-.t• , .. -,.-JJ' ,,. ,~ , ... 1.,. · 



'7*The Observer 
anindependentstudentnewspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's 

The Observer is published by students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions and letters are the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of 'the community, and letters are encouraged to promote the free expression of varying opinions on campus. 
Business Manager Advertising Manager Photo Editor 
Box Q 

EDITORIAL BOARD Thomas O'Neil Editor-in-Chief Dan Sanchez ·Managing Editor Chris Smith 'Asst. Managing Ed. 
Gregg Bangs Executive Editor Val Zurblis Executiv~> Editor Pat Hanifin Editorial Editor 
Tim O'Reiley Features Editor Bob Mader Exec. News Editor Maureen Flynn Campus Editor Marti Hogan St. Mary's Editor Kathy Mills News Editor Barb Breitenstein News Editor Don Reimer Copy Editor 
Tom Fronczak Martha L. Fanning Production Editor 
Notre Dame

Mike Miller Fred Herbst Sports Editor Tony Chifari Ind. 46556 Tom Byrne Contributing Editor 
Thursday, February 10, 1977 

Revised SLF Succeeds 
Back in November, The Observer warned that the Sophomore literary Festival might prove unsuccessful due to its lack-lustre list of speakers (dominated then by relatively obscure poets). Mardi Gras was scheduled for the same week, and it was generally feared that students might side-step a boring SLF for the more exciting Mardi Gras. We woni.ed that the Festival, an internationally renowned and respected institution, might have its success and prestige jeopardized by a speakers' list that would interest only a few students. 
Since November, the SLF scenario changed considerably. Ken Kesey and Tennessee Williams were added to the speakers list,· as were writers from universities around the country, at either minimal or no charge to the students. Of these recent additions, only Tennessee Williams requested a full speaker's fee. 
This Festival has attracted more speak­ers and outside participation than any other. The Festival committee took full advantage of their guests by involving them in more classes and workshops. Also, more students seem to be participating in this Festival than in any other Festival in the past. Considering its Mardi Gras competition, and a smaller budget than was enjoyed in past years, the Festival has proven to be highly successful. Its commit­tee members, and especially its chairman, John Santos, should be commended for the good work they have done. 
But the Festival is not yet over. Michael Benedikt will be speaking this afternoon, Tennessee Williams tonight and Denise I.evertov on Saturday. like the root meaning of "festival" suggests, this is a feast offering something for every palate. We suggest you take full advantage of these opportunities. 


Cablevision Update 
The Administration's rejection of SBP Mike Gassman's cable tv proposal is a disappointment. It is also ironic consider­ing that an administration-faculty commit­tee appointed by Fr. Hesburgh endorsed the idea two years ago in a report that administrators apparently filed and forgot. 
The report (recently rediscovered by Gassman) from the Committee on the Course of Study stressed numerous educa­tional benefits that television, including cablevision, could produce. The recom­mendations were published (N.D. Report 3 , 1974-75) with a cover letter from Fr. Burtchaell declaring them to have "far­reaching implications." Committee mem­bers included William Burke, assistant to the provost, and then-Dean of Arts and Letters Fredrick Crossen. 
Administrators seem to fear cable tv would interfere with study but the commit­tee pointed out that the University was then linked into a statewide educational cablevision system. This was never used, although it offered courses, film series and lectures from around the state. Is the University still linked into this "Indiana Higher Education Television System"? If so, why is it seldom (if ever) used? 
Some administrators argued that cable­vision might decrease student-teacher contact. But their own committee pointed out that, properly used, it would only supplement such contact. It could be "an alternative to four hundred students in one large hall for a required course" and could "multiply popular teachers and courses." 
The Administration's rejection of Gass­man's proposal stressed its high cost and the University's limited money. Since no one outside the upper reaches of the Administration is allowed to know the details of the University's finances, no one can refute this argument. 
However, the committee noted other reasons why television has been so little used in higher education, reasons that may apply to Notre Dame, such as a lack of imagination, adaptability, and "the con­servative character of education and educators.'' The educators at Notre Dame should reread their committee's report and reconsider their rejection of cable tele­vision. 

DOONESBURY by Garry Trudeau 

I 
liNAIJ7H&NTIC I I MffiiN. I ~~1.
4/4£/?JCAN VOICE I JU571UANr IT ~ 
CAN YOU BEAT 
70RJ.IYM0 
D 

THAT, VIM? 
MAN. 
NO«/H& 7/ili..S (JS. 


P.O. Box Q 
O'Reiley Insults Millions More 
Dear Editor: 
In his rather dyspeptic column of 
February 11, "Magnificent Meals 
in Michiana," Tim O'Reiley ad­
vise.> that the vichyssoise soup at 
the Morris Inn "will stir some 'vive 
Ia France' sentiments." It may, but 
a more accurate expression of 
gratitude would be, "Long live 
New York City" --a courteous ac­
knowledgement one would like to 
hear more often from provincial 
Americans who owe so much to 
that source of civilized beauty and 
pleasure. 
Despite its French name and 
pronunciation with the sounded 
final syllable, vichyssoise was in­
vented early in the century at the 
old Ritz-Carlton Hotel on Madison 
Avenue in Manhattan. Happily for 
inhabitants of this outpost, the 
Morris Inn does, as O'Reiley points 
out, serve excellent vichyssoise, 
and it is on their menu through­
out the year. Therefore: Long live 
New York City. 
Joseph Duffy 
Editor's note: Mr. O'ReUey_ "does not give a ····." Besides, vichys­soise was invented by a French Chef, who was stuck In New York at the time, unable to fmd a job In Paris. 
N.D. as 

No. 1 
Dear Editor: 
This letter is in response to the Observer article last week on the Student Life Council meeting on social space. In that particular article, I was quoted as stating that "Notre Dame is not conducive to heterosexual meetings, and it should be number one in this area instead of football, grade point averages and medical accep­tances." Because of the inaccuracy of the quote. the statement could easily be misinterpreted as imply­ing that Notre Dame should strive to become number one as a party school. which was not intended. 
Rather. I was trying to point nut that Notre Dame places ~11ch a great deal of emphasis on academic and athletic achievement that not enough serious consideration is given to creating a real positive social environment at Notre Dame that will allow the students to fully mature in terms of their inter­personal relationship skills, par­ticularly in the heterosexual do­main. 
In my seven years as a counselor at this University, I have seen literally hundreds of students who have serious problems in relating to members of the opposite sex. These students have departed this institution with a Notre Dame degree, many with a high GPA, but seriously lacking in their ability to interrelate with others in a mature way. 
I think Notre Dame is falling short of its goal to offer a well­rounded educational experience if they shortchange the students in terms of their emotional develop­ment. If Notre Dame would give this area even half the effort and financial support it does to aca­demics and athletics, then Notre Dame might be able to pride itself at being number one in terms of student development, which is more important to the students' overall adjustment and success in 
life  than  their  GPA  or  atheltic  
prowess.  
Jim Brogle  

Psych. Services 


Obiects to Blackmun 
' 
am dismayed at the Law School's selection of Supreme Court Justice Harry Blackmun to preside at the Moot Court Com­petition. Justice Blackmun is the au thor of the Roe v. Wade decision and other recent court abortion decisions--decisions which deny the states (or anyone else) lhe opportunity to effectively defend unborn human persons. 
For this university (which con­siders itself Christian and which claims a duty to help instill true values in its students and society) to invite a man who has helped abortion-on-demand to become un­eontrollable in this country is an incomprehensible lack of sanity. I sincerely hope that Notre Dame. and its component parts. will be more thoughtful on future occa­sions and give honor to men more deserving ot it 
Ken Hallett 


Friday, February 18, 1977 
I the observer 
Because God loves Stories 
by REV. ROBERT GRIFFIN, C.S.C. 
It was a spring day ten years ago; and in had a sense that angels were watching. It a corner room of the Community Infirmary, sounds silly, perhaps, to say that angels just down the hall, an old priest was dying. were watching. But whenever I think of one 
He had had cancer for many months, and of our brothers or priests dying, all of it you knew he would greet death graciously, seems to be true, literally and factually: and with just such a twinkle in his eyes as judgment, Paradise; Jesus, Mary, and he greeted all the other visitors he was glad Joseph; holy oils, scapulars (well, perhaps to see. He was a gentle man, full of stories not scapulars), and final blessings. God about Notre Dame. Whenever you went to may seem remote from some deaths, with see him, the special treat was to get him the drama in a muted note, the music in a talking about the day Rockne was baptized, minor key, whereby the soul trembles or about the movie they made of Rockne's before the throne of grace, waiting the 
life. gracious words, "Come, ye blessed of my "Donald Crisp, the actor," Father Mac Father. . ." But when-an old priest once told me, "played the role of Father stumbles off to God, cherubim and 
Charles O'Donnell who, as president of patriarchs sing together, saints and arch­Notre Dame, had preached at Rockne's angels dance the victory, and the Persons funeral. Crisp, being a staunch Presbyter­ofthe Trinity clap their holy hands. In that ian, refused to genuflect before the quiet room of Fr. Mac's, it seemed to me, Blessed Sacrament in Sacred Heart where the Superior recited the litany of the Church. So, in filming the processiGn of dying, and stillness was hushing the pulse priests onto the altar for the funeral Mass, and the breath, and the final history of a Crisp could not be cast among the life had been told forever: the Father of lies genuflectors. Once, Crisp, wearing the was being routed, and hell defeated; and esc habit for his screen role, was brought an eternal adventure was beginning, to dinner at Corby Hall on a day when the wherein the story teller, born again, could Provincial was hosting at the head table. trade his tiny tales for gospel truths and 
The Provincial did not realize that Crisp the poetry of prophets. was an actor, but supposed him to be a Even in the final months when he began Community member he couldn't identify. dying, the old priest, Father Mac, reserved 
Since provincials are not supposed to forget enough strength every day to say Mass. the identities of community members, the The life of faith has its own gracious venerable superior spent the whole meal gestures, its own beau gestes, its own trying to find out, through indirect ques­noblesse oblige, as when a romantic hero, tions, who the stranger was and which far­sentenced to death, sends his beloved a flung corner of the province he had come rose, refuses a blindfold, smokes a Last from. Everybody else at the table was in on Cigarette with his executioners. Father the joke. It wasn't until the end of the meal Mac's daily Mass was the rose he gave to that Crisp was revealed as a priest his Church. Moving from his sick bed into a ordained by Hollywood." wheel chair, he never complained of the 
Father Mac, history teacher at Notre pain, never mentioned the weakness. Dame for many years, had the historian's Going to the chapel every night at twelve, gift of remembering anecdotes. He would still seated in the wheel chair, fully vested, tell you stories that nobody else remem­he would, often by himself, offer the Mass bered to tell, or thought worth repeating. in Latin. There was a classiness in the faith His kindly humor made you love the people of this priest who would never miss his he loved and admired; and you could feel Mass: an affirmation of committment how wonderful and full of grace Notre as though his ordination stayed forever Dame was in a generation of men who were young; a jauntiness of spirit in the face of never afraid to laugh at themselves. growing old and sick, as though he could 
But now Father Mac was dying. The have tilted his biretta as roguishly as 
Superior waited at his bedside, and you Chevalier tilted his sailor straw hat, each of them saluting very different sweethearts. 
Sometimes, I served as his altar boy. One night, I noticed he was having problems with the ritual: the words were coming with difficulty; he seemed to lose his place among the sacred gestures. He got through the Mass reverently enough, though very slowly. When I had taken him back to his room, I alerted the nurse he was not acting well; then I sat at his bedside until he fell asleep. The next day, he called me in to explain. A visiting friend, he said, thinking he was giving him a treat, poured him a glass of Irish whiskey. Father Mac had been too gracious to decline to drink with a friend; he also had an appreciation of the liquor of the Gaels in the healthy, · human, sometimes unsaintly way that Irishmen do appreciate the products of their own culture's genius. "Who would have thought," he said, "that a drop taken in the afternoon could still affect me at midnight?" But affect him,. it had, making him sick and unsteady, because of his medication and weakness. It was the last drink he ever took. For an Irishman, that is a very ultimate moment. 
Finally, in the early afternoon of that spring day, the Sister in cha1rge told us that Father Mac had fallen asleep in the shelter of Everlasting Arms. A number of us went in, in groups of two and threes, to say a prayer and offer goodbyes. I looked at the priest who was my best teacher of what it meant to his generation to be priests at Notre Dame. I remembered, that day, sitting for a thousand hours as a young priest in the pay cafeteria, becoming acquainted, through Father Mac, with the history of giants. There was Father O'Donnell, priest-poet and president of Notre Dame, who wrote the Alma Mater; Father Matt Walsh, forme![' ND president and the "best historian the Community ever had;" Father Gene Burke and Father Tom Burke, wits, pranksters, scholars, whom even the Chicago Tribune frequently admired. (I knew Father Tom and Father Gene myself. They used to debate whether Griffin was the heaviest religious in the history of C.S.C. Father Tom said Griffin was the heaviest; Father Gene said no; Griffin was the heaviest priest, but there was another esc, a brother, who out­weighed even Griffin. Griffin himself never cared much for the argument.) 
There was Father Lange, a strong man, proficient with weights and barbells. 
"When St. Ed's was a freshman hall, and Father Lange was rector there, he had a method for sobering up youngsters who unwisely indulged. Making sure they were wearing sturdy belts, he would hang them out the window from the fourth floor of St. Ed's, and shake them until they were sober enough for a mother to love them." There was the story of the brother who complain­ed to Father Sorin because the brother's face had been painted on one of the Pharisees on the Stations ofthe Cross in Sa­cred Heart. Sorin, checking out the story, found it to be true, and reprimanded the artist. Whereupon the artist covered up his michievous work by painting it over with a Sorinesque beard. Then there was the slightly naughty story of Father Cava­naugh --the old, old, Father Cavanaugh, who was president around 1915. Returning one evening from a Chatauqua lecture, he was asked how he had liked the speaker. Father John replied: ''That lecturer, Fathers, is the man who put the shit in Shit-auqua." An indelicate pun, perhaps -­Father Mac himself was never indelicate -­but a pun one would hate losing forever as an instance of how the giants could be as colloquial as the rest of us. 
Father Mac was buried in the cemetery in back of Holy Cross Hall, with the men he had worked with and loved. Now there is another generation of priests and brothers at Notre Dame, working together, caring for one another. Through the stories that are told of them, they will cast the shadows of giants for· their successors. From the generation of giants that were, from the men who daily grow in stature until their shoulders touch the sky, I have praised a gentle priest and father whom I felt close to in life and death. In saying that I loved him, I am trying to particularize the love I have for the Community of Holy Cross, where I am affected by the life and death of every member. 
God created human beings, it is said, because He loves stories. I think He loves the story-tellers, too. Through their craft, He turns the efforts of men into something they recognize as the accomplishment of a community. That is why I think Father Mac shared something very essential with me when he told stories. He made me very proud of the religious Community I belong to. Along with the priesthood, it is the most important fellowship I have to share in. 
the areas not reached by the dancingMagnificent Meals in Michiana candlelight, inducing the appetite to gear up for an evening of satisfaction. 
by TIM O'REILEY Greeting us as we sat at the table was a veritable cornucopia of crackers, with a dish brimming with a gusto-packed ched­dar cheese soread. Following close behind the preliminary circuit, came the soups 
Amidst the tatters of an old brewery, like (included with dinner), served in sedately the phoenix from ashes, has arisen a patterned bowls. Special guest gourmet shopping center with a quaint character Robert Scott Appleby indulged in the that cannot be matched in South Bend. All French onion soup. which moved him to the businesses in The 100 Center have put pontificate, "I have certainly supped on some effort to preserve a rustic atmosphere more inspiring and more dyspeptic potage along the slithering river. in my time, but this soup must be generally -Among the participants in this attempt considered, in my concise opinion. as to preserve a semblance of good taste in rather good." Likewise, my vegetable beef this city is the Ice House, the epicurean fitted Mr. ApplebY's description, making department of The 100 Center. The entire the grade pleasing forerunner to the main restaurant is rather attractively paneled, course. with an intriguing multi-tiered dining room Turning to the planty side of the meal. offering the diner some interesting vistas. the salad was a rather simple affair. Ceiling lights with barrel shades brighten featuring lettuce, dressing, and a slice of 

The Ice House 
::: Entertal'nment Thl's Week
;:_·:.· 
:;:· :;: order of business this weekend at the Nazz. :;: by DAVID O'KEEFE The Neon Wilde Band will play on Friday 
\ night, followed by the N.D. First Jazz :;: On Campus Combo on Saturday. · 
\ 
:;: Movie: Rocco and his Brothers, a 1960 
.. Sophomore Literary Festival: At 3:30 this entry by Luchino Visconti, will be this :;:: afternoon, poet Michael Benedikt win talk week's presentation in the Italian Neo­:;:: in the Library Auditorium. This change in Realism film series. The-movie will be :;:: the schedu.le has been made so that h S d · ht t 8 00 t SMC'
:;:: s own un ay mg a : p.m. a s :;: tomorrow night 'at 8 p.m., in Washington Carroll Hall (in Madaleva), with admission 
tomato. It was, as Mr. Appleby described, setting the taste of ash in competition with 
"substantial, though uneventful." Fried that of the meat. The potatoes, hash 
mushrooms (a sideorder, $2.05), added a browns for Mr. Appleby and french fries 
touch of distinction to the affair, tantilizing for me, came across as somewhat lacklust­
the taste buds with their crispy skins, er. As a final touch, a loaf of what is called 
contrasted by their warm and succulent sourdough bread puts in an appearance on 
insides. the table. Though warm and rather tasty 
In the "evening cuisine" section of the (baked fresh in the Ice House kitchens), it 
menu, one finds a standard lineup of meat lacks the tartness of the bread that San 
and fish creations, ranging from $5.50 -Francisco so proudly boasts as its inven­
$8.95, with perhaps the most interesting tion; actually, the taste of the South Bend 
dishes under the "seafarer's catch" head­version is a bit too mild to be considered a 
ing. Crab legs ($8.95), Mr. Appleby's true sourdough. 
entree choice, struck him as, "Rather Considering the local climate, the Ice 
excellent and convincing, so alive with House would seem like a particularly 
flavor that I expected the legs to crawl right appropriate place to dine. As mentioned, 
off my plate." The stuffed flounder I however, it does have its drawbacks, which 
sampled on a previous engagement, must be considered by any serious eater. 
proved equally delectable. After the burp, Mr. Appleby judged that, 
In deciding upon the filet mignon ($8. 95) ''In view of all the cosmopolitan expertise I 
medium-rare, however, I got a piece of have meticulously acquired, and upon 
meat in which I could find little red. The scrupulous selection from the menu, I do 
outside of the meat was a bit too charred, believe I would return." 
results. **'12 Iiams hosts the show. which features::::
performances by Barry Manilow, the }Boiler House 1: The Shaggy D.A. 
Boiler House 2: Swept Away, another Starland Vocal Band, Wild Cherry and } thrust in Director Lina Wertmuller's Natalie Cole.(9:30 p.m., Saturday, Channel :;:;
22
satirical .attack on contemporary sexual > ::=; hang-ups. *** The Fortune Cookie: Walter Matthau won t s ottsd 1 N t k p dd Ch f k • an Oscar for his role as a shyster who tries :;:; 
c a e: e wor • a Y aye s Y s to win a lawsuit for his brother-in-law (Jack }
rampaging farce that bars no holds as it Lemmon) after he is injured in a sideline :;:;
takes the commercial television industry to .. task. Starring Peter Finch, Faye Dunaway collision with a football player. (1 1:30p.m., :;:; and William Holden. ***1;2 Sunday, Channel 16> :;:; T & C t 1 R ky th b t fit f The Dirty Dozen: This all-star cast war :;:;
own oun ry : oc ' e es 1 m 0 movie may not be an artistic success, but :;:; this or any other year. Sylvester Stallone's . it's always a lot of fun. Lee Marvin leads a :;:; 
:_:;._: Hall, Pulitzer Prize-winner Tennessee set at $1. tour de force is an upbeat fairy tale about a pack of war criminals on a suicide mission. :.:.:;
Williams, the author of A Streetcar Named Cinema 77: The original King Kong will be down-and-out boxing bum who gets a shot } Desire, Cat on a Hot Tin Roof, the Glass shown Sunday and Monday nights at 7:30 at the title. **** (11:30 p.m., Tuesday, Channel 22) :;;: 
:::: The Parallax View: Alan J. Pakula (All the ;:;
;:_) Menagerie, and so much more, will speak. and 10:00 p.m. in the Engineering Auditor-Town & Country 2: The Sentinel, slick President's Men) directed this highly-· · 
Denise Levertov will close out this year's ium. Jean Cocteau's classic adaptation of shock schlock ala The Omen and Ja,-s. ;:;: \ excellent Festival tomorrow night. Beauty and the Beast will be screened charged thriller about a reporter who {? Hockey: The Irish, unbeaten in eight Tuesday and Wednesday at the same . On the Air investigates a political assassination and
••••. g~;:?;:~::~~:.~~:;~: E~£~~·:~~~7~;:;~~~·· ~~.,. ~~»';;::.,~;~:~·:.::~:: f:r::::::::::::::::~~.:·::::::::} •••• ~~~~r;:ft~~;~~~:~:f¥tJ;i~~; ~;~:~ ~~;~··~:a>w,~d~~m~~fi f~*~s;;;;~;,:::DBQ •·•• ~~~~~i?~~~~~tf;?:~~r:s:~~] 
{ ~~;~~-s t~eo~ta;ov~ill c~:s~c~~re~o~~rrt~: ~~~~~.~~and Richard Pryor, set aboard a On the Tube il:: :.asbe~.~d. i~c~.r;~~rc ~e~hr~t g:~;o~~i=~~~~~
11 
01 

::: ~~~f~~~~~;:~et~~:.~~n~o~::S~. and WSND's ~r~m ;~,~~~~;~~~k~~~~;~~:~sth~;~~~~ Grammy Awards: The music industry :.:.:.· ~~:~::~~·:1 t ~ • ~~~~o~i~~~.s~:: ·~~~~a ~1~u:~:d~~: The Nazz: Recording sessions will be the (George )egai and Jane Fonda) who lose congratulates its own in the 19th Annual Feb. 10 issue of The Obscr\'cr. 
·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·:·:·:·:·:·>:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·::::::..;.:::::.:::.:-:-:-:::-::;.:::.:-:-:::-:-:·:·:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:·:-:-:·:·:-:-:-.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·. ·.·. -.. -. :-·.·:·:·.·:·:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-::;:;.;.:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:·:·:·:·:-:-:·:::-:-:-:-:-:-:-:::::::::::::::::::::::·:::.­

--,-,..---------~~--­
Friday, Febraruy 18, 1977 
the observer 

·-"------~ -----­



'Spotlight Program'to.aid freshmen 
by Chris Datzman Staff Reporter 

The Freshman Year of Studies has -initiated a "Spotlight Program" designed to assist freshmen with their choices of a major and career. 
"Some people come in here knowing exactly what they want to do right off,'' said Dean of Fresh­man Year Emil T. Hofman. "But a large number have no idea. They need information; they need gui~~nce. That's what Spotlight's for. 
According to Hofman, the pro­gram will consist of three phases to acquaint the students with the available academic programs and the career opportunities they pro­vide before advance registration on April 21-28. 
I'hase one consists of a general outline by each dean describing structure and curriculum. Already, Dean Joseph Hogan of the College of Engineering and Dean Bernard Waldman of the College of Science have addressed Hofman's fresh­man Chemistry class on their respective colleges. 
On Monday, Feb. 18, Dr. Isa­belle Charles, Dean of Arts and Letters will speak to interested students at 7:30p.m. in Nieuwland Science Hall, Room 127. Vincent Raymond, associate dean of Busi­ness Administration will meet with the freshmen on Tuesday, Feb. 22 at 7:30 p.m. in Room 122, Hayes-Healy. ­
The second phase of the Spot­light Program provides students with materials available in the Freshman Resource Center. Audio and video tapes of experts from within the colleges will focus on a more detailed description of pro­grams and majors. Also available will be printed materials including college bullletins and career pam­phlets. The schedules for the showings of these video tapes is available in the February Deans Newsletter to be distributed today. 
The final phase will include personal visits to the different colleges which will also provide counseling services for the fresh­man. These visits will be conducted during the week of March 21-25. More details will be given in the March Newlsetter. 
Hofman said that Spotlight was formed to help freshmen with their transition into sophomore year. The first part of the transition is to decide where they are headed and the second part is to advance register for the first time. To help them advance register each college 
NO prof to receive fellowship 
Dr. Donald C. Sniegowski, asso-­
ciate professor of English at Notre 
Dame, has been named by the Lilly 
Endowment, Inc., of Indianapolis 
to receive a 1977-78 Faculty Open 
Fellowship. The highly competi­
tive award honors Indiana profes­
sors for achievements in innovative 
work-study and research programs. 
Sniegowski, a 1956 graduate of 
Notre Dame, joined the faculty in 
1961 and has served during the last 
four years as director of freshman 
~nglish programs. He has elected 
to spend his fellowship year in 
study at Notre Dame, specializing 
in the nature of written composition 
and conferring with noted authori­
ties in the field. 
Each of th 46 private and public 
colleges in Indiana is invited to 
submit the names of three nomi­
nees for the fellowship to the Lilly 
Endowment group. A panel of 
judges, many serving as presidents 
or department deans at colleges in 
neighboring states, selected the 
Notre Dame professor and ten 
others for the honor. 
Sniegowski was a 1975 recepient 
of the Thomas Madden Award at 
Notre Dame, presented each year 
to an outstanding teacher of fresh­
men, and was a 1976 member of 
the Rhodes Scholar Selection Com­
'!littec in Indiana. 

will hold a preregistration meeting aware of different career oppor­
tunities and the student's own·on April 18. 
Besides the Spotlight Program, relationship to these opportunities. Freshman Studies has added new 
The exercises provide an insight guidance materials. According to 
for the student into his interests, Hofman, the new exercises are 
assess his aptitudes and achieve­designed to make the student ments, clarify the more immediate 
PLACEMENT BI~REAU 
Main Building 
INTERVIEWS SCHEDULED FOR WEEK OJ~ FEBRUARY 28 
Interviews are for seniors and graduate students. Sign-up schedules are in Room 213, Main Building. Interview times must be signed for in person. The sign-up period at the Placement Bureau will be from 8:00a.m. to 5:00p.m., Monday 
through-Thursday, Feb. 21-24. 
Detroit Bank and Trust C~mpany 
All BBA. 
GATX Corporation 

B in ME, CE, Chern. MBA w1th Fin bkgrd or conctn. 
RCA. ASTRO-ELECTRONIC DIVISION 
BM in AE and ME. 

Southland Corporation 
B in Econ, Psych. ALL BBA. (Rescheduled from 2/15) 
FEB. 28/ Permacel. Division of Johnson & Johnson MAR. 1 B in all disciplines. 
MAR. 1 Tues. Equitable Life Assurance Socie~ 
All BBA. 

GTE Automatic Electric Inc. 
BM in EE, Comp Sci, Math. 
Naval Underwater Systems Center 
BMD in EE. 

Northwestern Mutual Life Insurance Co. 
BM in AL. All BBA. 
Otis Elevator Company 
B in ME and EE. 

Procter & Gamble Paper Division 
BM in ChE, CE, EE, ME, MEI0. MBA with BS 
Steak & Ale 

B in ALand BA for Restaurant Management 
Yellow Freight System 
BBA and MBA. 

MAR. 2 ACIPCO Industries \-led. B in CE and ME. 
Clairol Inc, 

B in Mkt, Mgt, Psych, Soc. 
Indiana & Michigan Electric Co. 
B in EE and ME. 

Mutual of New York (MONY_l 
B in AL and BA. MBA. 
MAR.2/3 AT&T-Long Lines 

CANCELLED 
Wed/Thurs. Bell Laboratories 
MAR. 3 4merican Motors Corporation 
Thurs. B in Mkt. MBA with Fin Bkgrd ~ankers Trust Company Bl!A and MBA. John Hancock Mutual Life Ins. All BBA. Sperry Univac B in Mkt. 
MAR.3/4 ACTIONjPeace Corps/VISTA Thurs/Fri. BM in all disciplines. 
MAR. 4 Burroughs Corporation Fri.-MBA. 
Chicago Department of Public Works 
BM in CE and ME. 

Combined Insurance Company of America 
B in all disciplines for Sales. (Rescheduled date) General Motors Corporation . B in Acct and Fin. MBA with Acct or Fin bkgrd or' conctn. National Bank of Detroit B in AL and BA. B in MEIO. 
411:~-----u...IIUti:JLJL.u.~.LI..~.!¥'1.U..!!!..~~!:f....!~~-----..JII. 
Membership entitles you to: 

1. BUCKET OF BEER (l Pitchers) 3 $1.00-0FF COUPONS 
I
fQr FAMILY SIZE PIZZA (16") 
1PERSONALIZED METAl 

BUCKET ·--~ 
to hang permanently lrom\"7,:-.o-:::-· . our ceiling with name ';:{ ·_and date of memb&rshlp, _etc'. __ 
$5.50 

Game Room N()WOPEN Hiclkory Rd._ onlv pinb~l foosball 
COLILEGE NIGHT 
· Sunday 
show college I.D. & ge $1.00 off 16" Family size Pizza! 
401 N. Hickory Rd. T&C 31N. at Darden Rd 
or conctrn. Co. 
in EG. Trainee. 

goals and also help him become their lives, but we can make them aware of long range tareer goals, aware of these different factors according to Hofman. involved." 
"We want to make the students Anyone wishing to participate in aware and get them thinking,'' these individual exercises should Hofman said. "We can't make the contact his or her advisor. rlP.risions for them to determine 
..•-TIMM PARTY-STORE· .• 
. -­
!_OPEN: MON-SAT 9 am-11 pm:• SUNDAY 12 noon-11 pm • • 
COLD BEER, PACKAGE UQUOR,:
•
•

• WINE., GOURMET FOODS : 3114 S. 11 ST. NILES, MICIDGAN! 
• •• 1 Block North of state line on U.S. 31 •
• 

Recording Sessions,!!! 
NEON Fri., Feb. 18 9pm 
N.D. First 


Jazz Combo 
Sat., Feb. 19, 9pm 
Bill Boris FREE 
. . .. .. .;:;.•-• !;....::;;.<IC...:I 

~~tN~nt~f(Ji::{gi}~.-.•~,...,M,{v~.'·"~====~--~='~{::.~::,:.~,:~~~..~~;k~~~giiJI;~fr:~·L ?· .· =P;~:.=-,:::. 
TUESDAY, MARCH 8 -8 P.M. 
MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM SOUTH BEND, IND. 
1 
RESERVED SEATS $6, $5,$4 NOW ON SALE AT AUDITORIUM BOX-OFFICEll AM TOS PM SPECIAL STUDENT DISCOUNT $1.00 OFFW ITH THIS AC PRESENT WHEN BUYING TICK 1:::1 WITH YOUR STUDENT I. D. 
( \ ~' -.. oJ• .: • ,· ~· # ' ,. ~· ) J • ; 
---. .... ,· ..· .-.-.·-.-.-.· .-~ .-.-.-.. ,·. ..... . . ... .. .. . ..........• .• .. .. ..... ,-...... ~ ....-·: .• .-............... ' .·· .....• ... ~-.... .,. •.•.
~ 
. ~--.~~-~--~ 

Alpha Kappa Delta to host mini-convention here 
The Notre Dame chapter of Alpha Kappa Delta, (AKD) the National Sociology Honor Society, will sponsor a mini-convention here tomorrow. The conventions, which includes the reading and discus­sion of undergraduate research papers, will be held in two sessions from 1:30 to 3 p.m. and from 3 to 4:30p.m. 
Each section will be chaired by an undergraduate student with a faculty member and another stu-· dent serving as discussants. At the end of the conference, the chair­persons and discussants of each section will select one paper for entry in further competition or for 
presentation at the Notre Dame The AKD convention will meet in regional sociology convention on 
Rooms 206-209, O'Shaughnessy Hall.

A ril 1 and 2. 



Burroughs' selections entertain audience 
continued from page 1 
he continued to read selections in the surrealistic vein, He related the tale of a "buyer" in the narcotics business who becomes obsessed with the need for physical contact. "A yen comes on him like a great black wind through the bones," he read. The buyer finally loses "his human citizenship'' and becomes a ''creature without species." 
The novelist's next reading con­cerned a junkie who winds up in jail. The junkie successfully man­ages to hide a stash, and Bur­roughs unflinchingly described the process by which he cuts a hole in his skin with a safety pin and drops the solution into himself. 
Following a selection from Naked Lunch, Burroughs read from a novel on which he is currently working. The imaginative work involves a virus, Virus B-23, "which occasions genetic muta­tions in those who survive, and these mutations are genetically passed on to produce" a new generation. Only junkies are unaf-
NOTICES 

LIFE IN THE SPIRIT seminar begins Feb. 22. Call Tom at 289-4691 or 7651. 
MORRISSEY LOAN FUND 
$20-150. 1 day wait. 1 percent interest. Due in 30 days. LaFortune 
Basement. M-F. 11:15-12:15 
Need typing? Executary Inc., Pro­fessional Typing Service. $.85 a page. 232-0898. 
Will teach you flute in your spare time. Call Beth 8112. 
Papers professionally typed. Tele­phone evenings 272-8308. 
USED BOOKS. BOOK BARN 1 mile north of Notre Dame. 272-5520. 
Accurate, fast typing. Mrs. Donoho 232-0746. Hours: 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. 
Neat accurate typing of term papers, manuscripts. Call 287-5162. 
WOULD YOU BE INTERESTED IN GETTING YOUR MARVELS AND D.C.'S TWO WEEKS EARLIER THAN ANYWHERE ELSE? FOR MORE INFORMATION CALL BOB 233-0966 FROM 9-12 AM MON­W ED AND FRI OR RAY 7278 FROM 6-10 PM WED, THURS AND 9-5 SAT. 
FOR RENT 

Two bedroom house to rent. Sum­mer and-or school year. 1012 Eddy Street. $120 mo. plus utilities. Call OODlES HARRIS at 232-8563. 
Office space for nmt. Office space in existing Administration Building. Ideal location in west wing of building. Rent is negotiable. If interested, please call 3472. 
3 room furnished house within walking distance of campus. Rent and utilities. One-half block from Campeau St. Call 232-8563. 
4 bedrooms, living room, dining room, kitchen. Utilities paid. $100 per month. Call Oscar 233-1850. 
S bedroom house, good condition, renting for fall or by room for summer. Walk to campus. Call 259-7488 after 5. 
LOST & FOUND 

Gold necklace lost between Dillon and W a Ish last Sunday morning. Has single cultured pearl. Great sentimental value. Call 8042. 
fected bv the virus. Thus people franticaliy seek junk. 
Concluding his readings, Bur­roughs read from a piece that was published in Harper's and which, he said, is "an answer to the question 'When do you stop want­ingto be President?"' He amused the audience with the tale of a young man, attending a softball game with politicians, who aspires to become the "Sultan of Sewers." Burroughs described the advan­tages of this position over that of President. For example, the com­missioner of sewers would not have to "pet babies," or "have lunch with the Queen.'' 
But the young man's dreams are not realized and "the Sultan of Sewers lies buried.'' 
The SLF continues this afternoon with Michael Benedikt, who will read some of his poetry in the Library Auditorium at 3:30 pm. Tennessee Williams will read from his works tonight at 8 pm in Washington Hall. 
Lost: A circular yellow onyx ear­ring between Sorin and Main Circle or on bus to Holy Cross (SMCJ. Sentimental value. Reward 4374. 
Lost: Glasses. brown plastic frames & clear lenses -black vinyl case ­between ACC and Dillon. Mike 1725. 
Found: Single key marked Taylor X-7. Found in SE corner of near D-r. Phone 1251 -Chris. 
Lost: One 'For Sale' sign from statue on campus. If found, please call 3472. 
Lost at SMC Clubhouse Monday. 1978 class ring. Call Kevin 1744. 
Lost: Lady's Timex gold with brown band calendar (date only) between Sr. Bar and Breen-Ph1llips. Reward call Pat 1321. 
Lost: Brownish Ektelon racquetball racquet at the A.C.C. on either Wednesday or Thursday, if found, please call Kevin at 1811. There is a reward. 
WANTED 
I desperately need a ride to Tampa­St. ·Pete's area for spring break. I'll share driving & expenses. Call Flo Freely 6780. 
Wanted: House for next fall. East of Juniper preferred. Chris 287-5175 after five. 
Wanled: One Wisconsin hockey ticket for Saturday. Call Tom at 288-9916. 
Wanted: Ride to and from Dallas for spring break. Split driving and expenses. Call Ben 288-7523. 
Need 2 or 4 GA tickets for LaSalle. Will pay. Call 3203 or 1504. 
GA tickets for Wisconsin series. March 4 & 5. Will pay anything. Call John 289-2542. 
Needed: Pairs of GA LaSalle tix. Call Steve 287-6058. 
Typing. Call Carolyn at 232-9061. 
NEED RIDE TO LOUISVILLE, KY. ANY WEEKEND. CALL CLIF 8421. 
Need ride to Chicago area Friday (Feb. 18). Call 1600 or 7096. 
Need ride to Pittsburgh thE' weekend of Feb. 18-20. Will be happy to snare driving & expenses. Call 7995. 

Frid~y, Febraury 18, 1977 
the observer 




Ugandan dissidents killed 
KAMPALA, Uganda [AP]--The Anglican archbishop ofU ganda and. two cabinet ministers were killed in what the government said yester­day was a motor vehicle accident. It occurred after they had been accused of plotting against Presi­dent Idi Amin. 
The.~overnment said Archbishop 
Janant Luwum, Internal Affairs Minister Charles Oboth-Ofumbe and Lt. Col. Orinayo Oryeman, minister of land and water resour­ces, were being taken for question­ing Wednesday when they tried to overpower the driver, causing the accident. 
Amin was described by a senior government official as "shocked and stunned" by the deaths. "There was no foul play what­ever," said the official. "It was just one of those terribly sad things.'' 
Ho~ever, the deaths set off a new international outcry against Amin, who has been accused of ruling his East African nation by terror since he deposed President Milton Obote in 1971. Amin has survived numerous alleged plots to oust him. 
The International Commission of Jurists in Geneva termed the said, ''The pretense that they were kiiled in a motor accident will deceive no one." 
The Commission made up of law teachers, judges and lawyers from the non-Communist world, said the deaths added urgency to appeals for a United Nations investigation into "a consistent pattern of gross violations of human rights in 
" I.
Uganda. 

· The All-Africa Conference of 
Churches , with headquarters in 
neighboring Kenya, called the 
deaths "murder." 
Andrew Young, the U.S. ambas­
sador to the United Nations, also 
called it "assassination." Refer­ring to Uganda's claim that the deaths were accidental, Young said, ''The world knows better than that." · In B~itain, the former colonial power in Uganda, Labor member of 
Parliament Greville Janner said the accident report "looks like another cover-up for a disgraceful and bloody murder." He said he would try to have Amin denied entry to Britain for the Commonwealth 
conference in June. 
About half of Uganda's 11.6 million people are Christians. A­bout IS percent of the population, including Amin, is Moslem. 

SUNDAY MASSES (Main Church) 
Saturday 5:15p.m. Rev. Robert Griffin, C.S.C. Sunday 9 :30 a.m. Rev. Joseph Carey, C.S.C. Sunday 10:45 a.m. Rev. Leonard N. Banas, C.S.C. Sunday 12:15 p.m. Rev. William Toohey, C.S.C. 
Vespers will be at 7:15 p.m. in Lady Chapel. Rev. Leonard N. Banas, C. S.C. will be celebrant. 
.• -""'"...~-~---"·111•....,,..~­
deaths an "assassination" and ......~,.--,...._,,.,._..,~,.·--~~~· ....._.~-·•...,.
·-·----·-·---·­
Authentic Mexican Cookery 
~c~~ 
~f;P ~ 
.f!J~'~ ~) ~ "· ' -~~w~TIO LUIS~ 
\~ RESTAURANT '!JJ. 
-,~ ~ ~ 
"«·'~ ~ ~h
~!~ 
11 a.m. to 11 p.m. 233-0385 526 Western Ave., South Bend 
A Trend Continues At The 
senior bar 
Happy Hour 3 -6pm DRINK SPECIALS 
Vodka & Tonic Gin & Tonic 
50¢

Seven & Seven 
PIZZA SPECIAL TOO!! $1.50 t • 
Also Fri_day Night: Dirt Night Appropriate Drinks Special All Night 1
-.. -·-----·----= ··---­

Classified Ads 
Alone again? (Yup!J ND-SMC Hot­line 4-4311 open nights. 
Three girls need ride to Fort Lauder­Two-\lirls need ride to Ft. Lauder­dale over spring break. Call 4687. dale for spring break. Call 4-4291 or 4-4378. QUICKEE CANCELLED THIS WEEKEND. Wanted: Ride to Madison, Wiscon­sin this weekend. Call Donna 8136. Robin, Thanks for the cookies. They made my day. Paul Wanted: Rug-12 X 14. Call 4-4122 Charyl Maria, Happy New Years. pkb P.S. 
Happy 21st. Need a ride to Ft. Lauderdale for spring break. Will share driving & Mark K. Emil, Emil, Emil. Coes he expenses. Call Pat 1514. love you? 
Wanted: ride to Ft. Lauderdale for HAPPY BIRTHDAY DIANE RICE!! break. Call Brian 158~ or 1516. Everyone should call 7865 or visit 118 Lyons to wish her a Happy 3 need ride to Ft. Lauderdale over Birthday. break. Call 287-8386. Dear 128, 130: The curly-haired Two girls need ride to Florida. Arkie, the cute little blond kid, and Tampa-St. Pete area. Spring break. the TDH lnPirg freak all say YES. Susan 4-5149. 
CLBK, e't. al. 
Need ride to Chicago Feb. 25. Call To my romin roomie, Jill . Happy 4-4819 Laura. anniversary 2-14. Miss ya lots! 
Hurry home. Ter Wanted: 2 GA tix to San Fran­cisco. Call 1279. Hoagie, Thanks for the Valentine, 1 
love you too. Muff 3 Ga tix to San Francisco. Will pay top $$. Call 283-8863. There once was a girl named Val, Who didn't have many pals, When she put on a dress FOR SALE To look her very best All she got were gals. 
Still taking bids for used statue. Look for yourself, it's in great Julie, This one's for you. show it to shape! Fr. Sorin, South Quad. everyone in Slats. PW S 
Submit bids by phone: 3472. Dear Polack, I know who you are and 
1wish I were dead. Drew B. 1 pair of 2-way walnut bookshelf speakers, 1 ft. X 1.5 ft. $40, Phone Poopsie, Because "you could be 289-8098. 
poison tasting sweet." M.V. 
TELEPHOTO LENS: 200mm f3.5 Jim Hudson, Here's your very own Soligor T-4 with mount for Nikon, 
Observer personal. Cherish it. Nikkormat. Includes sun shade & Tiffen UV filter $100. Can be 
Greg Gareis, Better late than never. 
adapted to Canon, Minolta, Pentax, It's the thought that counts. Now Olympus, etc. with a T-4 mount. you're an Observer personal star. Price without Nikon mount: $90. 
Affectionately, Kathy and Barb Call 1845 Ask for Tony. 
Alone again? ND-SMC Hotline. For Sale: 3 day old Mars 700 4-4311 apen nights. technical pen set {00-2 J plus 2 singles (2 .5 & 4). 5 percent below Play it again Martha and t.r. Good office engineer's. Never used. Call 
luck Friday night. Love, Beth 8528. 
Karen of 223 Lewis, I finally got up enough nerve to have this printed. PERSONALS 
Thanks a lot. I had a good time. John Senor Wurtzel, Miss you at 8 a.m. 
Rourke & Mike, Thank yo11 forSpanish class. Come visit us some­remembering us. Love, Your Lewistime! Las Senoritas ' Hall Valentines 
Kevin "the stud", Thank you for the 
Michael Allare! Sunday is your bigValentine Carnations; but next time day. Just imagine going home tosign Dunphy. Connie & Eve 
Mt. Prospect and bein'l le'lal!! -Happy 19th! Love. SMC tans 
There once was a boy from Man­hasset Whom 3 women agreed was fan­tastic He'll celebrate his birthday with a cheer And we'll make sure to buy him a beer Then he'll no longer be a "boy" from Manhasset. 
The same boy from Manhasset Now we know he's truly fantastic He'll leave his innocence behind When we show him a "good time" And BELIEVE us he'll no longer be 
a "boy" from Manhasset. Happy 20th Jay P. Love (alphabet­ically), Beth, Geralyn, Maureen 
Nellie, Love me tender. Elvis 
Our other partner can't make it this 
year And the bars are closed that day. But after a few brews at the 
Bughouse Who will ntoice the difference. Have a happy B-day AH B! 
J.P., Happy Birthday. We still love you. 218 
Women Beware!! The mad "catun­dra Dog" is loose. His desired 
cannot  be  satiated..and  he  wants  
YOU!!  
Kathy,  Gina,  Beth,  Julie,  Betsy,  

Michelle, Mary, Marsha, Sheila, Molly, Terry, and Cathy. Have a good weekend and good luck on unday and Tuesday. The Rookies are alright. 
If it hasn't happened already, the HIGH ROLLERS will blast the Quiets all semester. Hey, isn't that a high roller! 
TheW ILD BUNCH FOUR wishes to
1 
announce their amiable feelings to (among othereJ Sue K ., Joanne, T., Anne, Katie, Teresa, Donna, Janet S., Janet C., Barb, Milissa, Cathy c., Lisa, the house on NO Avenue and our respective moms. Sorry we're late! Happy Valentine's Day! 
Joanne, you're right. It has been a long time between personals. Will this do? Gregg 
In the mood for some good food? Come to Lewisio's Spaghetti Dinner tonight. 6:00p.m. Lewis Rec Room Tickets: $1.50. Call 7607. 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY ON THE 20TH, MARCY. SEE YOU SOON! LOVE, CEIL 
Bill Murray, Hope you get well soon (that's as trite as we could come up with). We'll see you down in the bars in no timr> Alumni Friends 

the observer Friday, Febraruy 18,1977 
Irish icers boast top netminding duo 
by Gregory Solman Sports Writer 
Numerous factors can account for the Irish leer's number two standing in the WCHA goUtudiq tallies that list Notie ~ netminder's John Peterson and­Moher as the second and third best league goalies. 
"Goaltending is one of the key elements of any hockey team," commented Irish Coach Lefty Smith, "primarily because the goaltender has to make up for the mistakes of the five guys, and secondly, because a good save can give a team a tremendous emotion­al and psychological lift. I'd say that goaltending is at least 40 to SO"lo of the game of hockey.'' 
With hockey relying that much upon goaltending, Irish fans should be relieved that their "men behind the mask" are Lenny Moher and John Peterson, two veteran juniors looking forward to post-season play. 
"This team, more than any other team since I've been here, really 
believes in itself,'' commented an exuberant Moher. "We weren't winning or tying games late in the third period a year ago. Whereas before we were saying 'we're as good as these guys, and, hopefully, we will win,' we're now saying, 'we are better than these guys, and we are going to win.' " 

And with Moher and Peterson minding net, the Irish have been doing a lot of winning lately. Alternating nights for two-game series, to keep each rested, Peter­son has compiled a 3.45 goals­against average and a 7-3-1 record, while teammate Moher boasts a 
3.86 G.A.A. and an 11-4 record, a winner in his last 9 games; very similar marks for goalies that employ such vastly different sytles of play. 
The 6-2 183 pound Peterson is a classic stand-up goalie. Hailing from Montreal, Quebec, the big­gest goalie in Irish history likes to stay upright as much as possible to take advantage of his size and fill up the net to cut down angles. With agility such major factor in the success of a good goaltender, Peterson's reasoning is logical "Once I'm down on the ice,'' he commented, "I find it very hard to be mobile." 
Len Moher of Wellesley, Mass­achusetts, was an all-star goal­tender for Philips Academy in Andover, a school that seems to be producing an unusual amount of good goaltenders. In fact, fresh­man Greg Rosenthal of Philips Andover hopes to fill in Moher's skates upon the elder's graduation. Moher, a much smaller player at 5-9, 155 pounds, has "always been known as a 'flopper'," and fre­quently is quite low in terms of 
r-Tony Pace 

Pace's Picks 

The collegiate basketball season is now·in the home stretch, as all of the major college basketball schools race for tournament berths. This in no way means that things are pretty well set. In fact this is probably furthest from the truth. Tournament selection committees place much more empahsis on how a team has fared down the stretch when they are weighing their decisions. The scramble has been interesting to this point and it should only become more interesting as we approach the tourneys. 
SATUIIDAY 

SYARACUSE over St. John's by 8 points-Though the Redmen have some fine individual talent, including guard Glen Williams and center George Johnson, they have no one to combat the Orangemen's driving force, 6' -11" Roosevelt Bouie. MICHIGAN over Minnesota by 3 points -Though the Wolverines were soundly beaten by Indiana last Sunday, they should regroup for this all important Big Ten encounter. Since the Golden Gophers are on probation, they have nothing at stake but their pride. While that often may be enough, the game is in Ann arbor. Noire Dame over WEST VIRGINIA by 6 points -This game has upset written all over it. The Mountaineers have a fine ball club led by guard Tony Robertson, while the Irish will be playing their second game in less than two days. It will be tough but the more mature Irish should pull through. Cincinnati over Rutgers by 10 points -The Bearcats and the Scarlet Knights will square off in Madison Square Garden in what should be a wide open contest. IfRutgers'forward Hollis Copeland is on his game the story could be different, but Copeland has betn as inconsistent as the Indiana weather. ALABAMA over Tennessee by 2 points -Though the Crimson Tide has been less publicized than the "Bernie and Ernie show", they have some of their own inidvidual talent in the presence of Reggie King and Anthony Murray. The game is in Tuscaloosa and the crowd should make a difference. UTAH over Arizona by 3 points -Though Arizona is rated 17th in the AP poll, they will have a most difficult task in this contest for the WAC lead. Utah's top player is Newark, N.J. product Earl Williams, a money player who should be the key to this game. 
SUNDAY 

PURDUE over Indiana by 5 points -I have yet to favor the Hoosiers and this is no time to start. The game is in West Layfette and the Boilermakers have an intra-state grudge to amend. 
TUESDAY 

Providence over VILLANOVA by 7 points -The Friars may be the best team in the East this year and they seem assured of an NCAA bid. A good showing by Villanova could help towards an NIT bid. WAKE FOREST over Maryland by 9 points -The Deacons are another tournament bound team and they should make turtle soup of the Terrapins. 
WEDNESDAY 

NOTRE DAME over Loyola by 17 points -Hopefully, more students will attend this game than did the Butler game. For, even if the game is not intere~ting, the students can liven up the second half. 
LAST WEEK: S-4 OVERALL: 22-6 "V" drop. 

"Where I'm small, the key to my goaltending is aggressiveness," contends Moher. Having to rely on quickness and agility more, he tires to challenge the shooter while cutting down the angles. 
Both of the Irish goalies were drafted early in their careers, Moher by the Buffalo Sabres, and Peterson by the Chicago Black­hawks, and both are looking for­ward to the possibility of a pro career. 
Peterson and Moher are living testimony to the fact that goaltend­ers are made and not born. It seems that no one starts out as a goalie. Both members of the Irish duo are no exception and seemed to have originally acquired their pos­itions more by chance than design. 
John Peterson started out as a defenseman, and was moved to goaltender when the regular goalie failed to show for a practice. "Our coach put in the worst skater," laments Peterson, "and that was me." 
For Lenny Moher, it took a stick in the eye and a damaged retina to get him into the overstuffed pads. He played goaltender because the league would not let him play without protection over his eye. 
Regardless of how the two acquired their positions, they ob­viously adapted well. The Irish record this year reflects the year they have both been having -­especially in the number of one or two goal games the Irish have won, often by virtue of the Irish 
goaltending tandem . 
Moher in particular is known as a 

"clutch" goaltender. In fact, his 
record shows but one loss in eleven 
overtime games, that one coming 
to Bowling Green. "It is a press­
ure-packed situation,'' added Mo­
her, "I just try to sit back and try 
not to inflict any additional press­
ure on myself, be loose, and play 
one shot at a time." 
With the possibility that the Irish 

could play Wisconsin five times in 
the next month, both Peterson and 
Moher may have their fill of pres­
sure-packed situations. In addition 
to the good teams they will be 
playing, the playoff system is 

Len Moher (30) and John Peterson (1) form the top goaltending 
duo in the WCHA. 
arranged on a "most goals in the series" system, where a rout by one team on the first night could spell certain disaster the next night. 
"It definately adds a little pres­sure," admitted Moher, "Wejust have to go in with a cool head and play the way we've been playing all season. And the way things have been going, that's going to be a win for us." 
The Irish are currently on a twelve game unbeaten string. John t'eterson commented that some people have the attitude that it might be better for a team to lose a regular season game to "get it out of their system" before the play­
offs.  Peterson,  however,  
vehemently  disagrees with  that  
philosophy.  

"We shouldn't even think in terms of losing!", espoused Peter­son, "So what if we've gone undefeated in twelve games? We should simply take one game at a time." 
Peterson stopped sporting his "shamrock" mask, much to the dismay of many Irish loyalists. Evidnetly, the mask had become damaged during several games, and had to be refiberglassed, thus removing the Celtic clover. When asked if it would be replaced in the future, Peterson refused to commit himself, replying, "Who knows? Maybe." 
Meanwhile, Peterson's play will be more of a factor than the mask he wears, but the future looks solid for both of the Irish net minders . Playoff hopes are very much alive, due in large part to good goaltend­ing, though they themselves credit the attitude and confidence of the team. 
"That's been the key to us thus far this year," summarized Mo­her, "We've believed in ourselves every time we've gone out to play. We really believe that we can beat anybody in th country and go to Detroit for the playoffs." 
With attitudes like that, and with two fine goaltenders, a trtp to Detroit just might be in the offing. 


Irish struggle to defeat Jaspers 

by Frank LaGrotta Sports Writer 

The Fighting Irish basketball team, in a performance tarnished by poor shooting from the foul line and an abundance of personal fouls took a close game from the Man­hattan Jaspers last night, 80-76 at Madison Square Garden before a crowd of approximately 9000 fans. 
Digger Phelps brought his cag­ers into the game to face an 11-9 Manhattan club battling for an Eastern Collegiate Athletic Confer­ence playoff berth, and, for a while, it looked as if Phelp's men were ready to oblige. 
The Irish, pressing vigorously, took an early 18-12 lead before the Manhattan five, led by senior guard Steve Marsh exhibited flaw­less defense and near-perfect shooting to score 12 unanswered points to take a 24-18 lead; a lead they held until the middle of the second half. 
From that point on the half was a nightmare for the Irish as they were dominated on the backboards and could not manage one success­ful freethrow in seven attempts. 
Freshman Rich Branning saw his . string of 20 consecutive free throws 
broken as he failed on his first 
opportunity of the evening from the 
charity stripe. That was the least of 
Branning's troubles as he could 
manage only six points on the night 
and was forced to leave the game 
with five personal fouls midway 
through the second period. 
Things did not appear much 

better at the onset of the second 
half as Bruce Flowers picked up 
two quick fouls in the first two 
minutes of theperiod .raising his 
total to four on the evening. 
Suddenly things turned around for the Irish as they scored six unanswered 'points to tie the game at 52 before Dave Batton's jumper gave the Irish the lead with 16:10 remaining in the game. Batton's eight points in a three minute span keyed the Irish comeback. 
It was then that the man of the evening, Irish forward Toby Knight took over. 
Pulling down four straight re­bounds and hitting on two consecu­tive jump shots, the big senior set the pace for the remainder of the game as the Irish pulled away for the first time in the second half 62-56. Knight, who turned in the best performance of his Not! e Dame career finished the evening with 27 points. 
It was not until 6:05 in the second half that the Irish finally tallied their first free-throw as Duck Williams connected form the gift line to give the Irish a 74-68lead. 
The game, a nail-biter up to the final buzzer was the Irish ninth straight win, and boosted their record to 17-5. The final statistics showe Knight with a game-high of 27 points. Williams followed with 19, and Dave Batton, the only other Irish player in double figures added 14 points. Manhattan's Steve Grant put in a fine performance ending the night with 20 points. Ricky 
Marsh chipped in 18, Dino Larry followed with 15, and freshman Darryl Eady ended with 11 as the Jaspers boasted four players in twin-figures. 
The Irish travel to West Virginia on Saturday. 


--------------------------~----------------------------------------------------------~ 





