-·-·-., 
/ 

'1
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's 
Tuesday, Apri1·5, 19., ..
Vol. XI, No. 109 
' 
' 
'
Gary Trudeau accepts Senior Fellow invitation ' ' ' 
'I 
field, his -lifestyle and accomplish­School of Art to begin working for population of millions of refugees, always manages a smile; •,-high by Val Zurb81 ments must embody the "Notre his Masters of Fine Arts degree. simply so our children will hold the Zonker Harris; the commune's ' Senior Reporter Dame spirit'' and he must be able · John McMeel and Jim Andrews, army in esteem? ... It cannot be chaplain, Rev. W.S. Sloan Jr. 
' 
to spend at least one day on who were scouting for new comic considered sanity to hide the (modeled on Yale University chap­
' 
campus as guests of the Senior strips for Universal Press Syndi· imperfections from our children so lain William Sloan Coffin Jr.); the 
I' 
Pulitzer Prize-winning cartoonist class. Also, his personality, inter-cate, discovered "Bull Tales". that they too will grow up \blind to chaplain's dog "Unconditional Am­. Garry B. Trudeau has accepted this ests, enthusiasm and personable­\ndrews said about Trudeau, "It them. Is it not better to tell the nesty" and his cat, "Kent State." I' year's Senior Class Fellow invita-ness are taken into consideration. ~Vas clear he was a comic genius." truth, even in hyperbole, and hope Pop journalist Hunter Thompson 
I
tion, Senior Fellow chairman Ron In 1974, Trudeau received the Trudeau changed the name of th that they will do something about appears in the strip as Governor 
I
Hathaway announced. Trudeau first Pulitzer Prize for cartooning strip at the insistence of McMeel it?" Duke of American Samoa, where 
•contacted Notre Dame yesterday for a non-editorial-page artist. and Andrews and "Doonesbury" Much of the action in "Doones-his first official act is to ban the I and said he would gladly accept the Trudeau's "Doonesbury" comic made its debut in october, 1970, bury" takes place in "Walden", a importing of John Denver recor­
I
invitation. Dates are tentative, but strip is a six-year-old creation that when 30 papers, including the counter-culture commune. Besides . dings. Trudeau said he could come to has a cast of regular characters and Washington Post carried it. It was 'Doonesbury, who serves as straight Chairman Ron Hathaway said "I · campus during Senior Week on is revolutionary by bringing in a controversial strip that some man, the inhabitants include Ms. am very enthusiastic about his I May 18, 19 and 2Q. recognizable real-life political and editors dropped from their papers Joanie Caucus, the liberated mid-coming and I'm sure the class will 
The SeniorFellowbommittee has social figures for a satirical com­immediately. In May 1972 he ran die-aged woman whose weary face welcome him warmly.'' l to meet to decide the specific anent. the strip where Zonker Harris, :;.-~"!IP4~------~-_...,____~ details of Trudeau's visit, but Trudeau was born in New York Doonesbury's hippie freak friend, l Hathaway would like to plan a City in 1948 and he grew up in traces the blame for the Kent State 
t domesbury t· I
picnic and have Trudeau address Saranac Lake, New York. In 1968, massacre directly to former Attor­. the Senior class at some point as an undergraduate of Yale Univ-ney General John Mitchell. Many t· · I I 
I
during his visit. ersity, Trudeau began doing a editors dropped the strip, but there • We'D B~"(R/y weri·--ntAKC I "I'm very happy that Mr. Tru-comic strip for the Yale Dally News was such outraged response from ' •'" ALL "f"'otf'
17'-'11/61?-fD ~ ~"'"E ~~~)1~~~0171 II I
deau will be the Senior Class entitled "Bull Tales." He poked readers that the strip was reinsta­t ' Fellow," said Hathaway. "Espec-fun at Yale president Kingman ted in many papers. J yocJ 4$ 0 u R SCH 10 ~ FOR. '-'00.I t 
~CU,OYlJ Vt1 ~.

ially important is his appeal to 1 Brewster and football hero Brian In response to the censorship of t :;; Sl~ I' 
I
college students and the emphasis Bowling, besides other. campus his comic strip, Trudeau said, "It is 
o i
that he has given to social and notables. Mike Doonesbury, one of said by many that a strong army is t 112-UO"U. ' t 
I
controversial problems in his car-the main characters, got his last · necessary for the survival of our toon, 'Doonesbury• ". name from "doone", Yale slang for society and the principles of demo­I "' t· I ITrudeau was picked by a Senior good-natured fool and the second cracy it operates under. But has Class vote. The criteria for syllable from Pillsbury, one of the conduct of our army in Viet I
f: ' 
choosing the Senior Fellow is that Trudeau's college roommates. Nam affected the attitudes of our 
I ·t I I 
the individual must have done After graduating from Yale in children? Should we hide My Lai, something very_ significant in his .1 1970, Trudeau entered the Yale defoliation, and the creation of a I 
t ' I I 



Commission to decide Gryp's fate: : l 
I 
as new Student Union director f ..K~:r=_...~ ~~~; ,., ,I 
1
by1lmO'ReUey voting, we have to go to the 6:30 tonight for HPC chairman,,I ct..~ .. tc t-*!''ft~"! tN,flAJI~'!!j • 
Food Editor Commissioners." Russell commented. t ~ ~ _ r
:t 

One problem that arises with the Russell is thus far unopposed, Seeking a solution to the linger-vote is that the incoming chairman though noted that he might with-1 
ing controversies surrounding the of the HPC, who sits on the Board draw from the Commissioners I' f selection of a new Student Union of Commissioners, is not choser should several potential opponents Director, Student Body President until after Easter break. J.P. within the HPC surface. 1 I Dave Bender announced that the Russell, the present HPC chair-Should Gryp lose the vote by the t 
. Board of Commissioners would man, stated he will probably sit on Commissioners, the SU director-f 
t. 
meet tonight to confirm or reject the Board of Commissioners ship would again be opened to all the appointment of Tom Gryp for tonight. "It would be unfair to applicants. "Then," Bender elab-I f the SU post. force any kind of vote at the first orated, "the Commissioners would f j 
Seven members of the SU HPC meeting, or move it up to be charged with making up a new I Director Appointment Board de-meet the timetable of the SU Appointments Board and setting a ~ cided at a meeting late yesterday decision. Candidates can file untf new vote for SU director." I · afternoon to move up the Com-'~~-~-~-~.,-~.-.-~ ...~-' 
· missioners' confirmation date in order to settle the disputed vote Action by new SSP between candidates Gryp and John · Rooney, SU administrative assistant. In the meantime, Jody 

Bender. initiates social, coed commissions 
Korth, Executive Coordinator of the Social Commission, has been named by Bender to "function as by Bubara Brelten•teln "The goals are idealistic," Hesburgh. ''This will be a frustrating year,'; director" until a new director is Executl\le New• Editor Hardy said, ''and these changes "This seme-ster we will be ioma continued. ••You can't force installed in office. may not happen for ten years, but Jathering information,'' Hardy social responsibility. You can only
Director of Student Activities, Aiming at improving interracial, we hope to plant the seed now. .aid, ''and getting together with inspire it and provide opportunities Bro. John Benesh, C.S.C., former social justice and coeducational There are many students here who resource people such as CILA, the for it to grow. That's what we hope Student Body President Mike Gass­concerns both on and off campus don't care about social and political tnternational Students' Union, and to do." man, former SU Director Kenn are two new Student Government awareness, and this goes against ~etting their input. We also will be Soma noted that the speaker Ricci, SU Comptroller Marianne (SG) commissions created by new the Christian character of the Nriting a handbook for incoming series, which is designed to be an Morgan, Executive Coordinator of Student Body President (SBP) University. I feel it is the Student students.'' addition to the yearly Network 
the Hall Presidents' Council Keefe Government's job to present these Hardy emphasized that the com­:onference sponsored by CILA, is a
Dave Bender. 

Montgomery, incoming SBP Dave Heading the interracial and things to the students,'' she said. mission i$ an interracial commis­"practical way to open up the idea Bender and incoming SBVP Tom social justice concerns commission Hardy has outlined four areas sion and that it will be dealing of social justice." Soma agreed on this method to is Valerie Hardy, junior and SBP through which the commission will mainly with political activism. The ideological basis of the alleviate what became a stalemate. candidate this year, while Ann~ work. These are an expansion of "Now students are not so directed series and the freshman orientation 
"We had a number of options we Thompson, also a junior, will be\ the student lobby to address social toward political issues. It's time to projects will be dealt with in the 
could have taken," explained 

Coeducation Commissioner. The concerns as well as drinking and be more outward-directed and remainder of this-semester. Bender, ''but decided this would positions were created, according making freshmen aware of inter­aware of the social problems in the be the best route to go under the to Joe Gill, SG executive coordin­racial and social problems at Notre world." 

circumstances.'' 

ator, as a result of the SBP race last Dame. The commission will help Tom Soma, SBVP who will be 
Gassman noted that ''under the month. them learn to deal with these working in cooperation with Hardy The coeducation commission, conditions which Gryp won, the problems through workshops and on her commission, noted that which will deal with the problemsreferral to the commissioners is the 
sensitivity sessions at freshman although there are student groups, specifically geared to coeducation. way it should be done." orientation. Hardy also plans to courses and professors addressing was also created out of the SSP. 
Bender, however, stated, "I form a minority coalition which social problems, the Student campaigns last month, accordin3 to think it is something of a cop-out by Hardy, who stressed social . would deal especially with political government hopes to add to their Gill. the outgoing Appointments Board. awareness in her campaign for activism.on Third World issues and work. "The idea of women's ~ By going to the Commissioners, it SBP, hopes to "plant a seed" common problems such as minor­''These efforts are not concerted coeducational affairs came up wneb puts -Gryp in the position of being 
through her commission which will ities. The commission would also now." Soma e:xplained. "The Dave (Bender) was campaigning.~' judged on the vote and not on his eventually bring about a "change sp<)nsor a series of speakers on issues are irnporWrt and should be Gill explained. "When we··~-:·. · own merits. But, as long as there is social justic themes, including Uni­~iddressed to the Student Govern­ilie different dorms, .". ' ·:· •
in the consciousness .and values" of my doubt about the validity of the NotrP. name students. vPtsity Pre:>ident Fr. Theodore ' ment and we ue trying to do that.'' lc.daaed . '~: 

the observer Tuesday, April 5, 1977 

tor '77-'78 season 
.JIIit_
...~ililliili---iliililil--......News Briefs········· ·· ........ ·~
J : L~·...--·~-·~-··~-·WII··w··-...·-...·-.,·-w·-w·-..·-vww~-•·••••International 
t' 
!Zaire ends Cuban relations 
KINSHASA, Zaire-The Zaire government broke relations with Cuba yesterday. alleging i\ had uncovered evidence that Cuba was involved in the invasion of copper-rich Shaba Province by Angola-based rebels. The broadcast said all Cuban diplomats were 
ordered to leave the country "in accordance with international usage.'' There was no indication how many Cuban diplomats are in Zaire. 
President Mobutu Sese Seko's government has repeatedly 

tion in dance and partner stunts. claimed that Cuba, as well as the Soviet Union and Angola, are , : i Of the 35 women who tried out, 15 
backing _the invaders in Shaba with military advisers, troops, arms : 
1 
and equtpment. Nati-onal: 
~ d , the lS.landers 
~ece e. say 
NANTUCKET, Mass. -Islanders angered by mainland control of their political well-being voted yesterday in a non-binding referendum on whether to secede from the state of Massa­chusetts. The threat of secession is a reaction to the Massachusetts legislature's proposal to redistrict itself in such a way that this : island and neighboring Martha's Vineyard would lose their own 
~. representative for the first time since 1696. 
~ 

' 
12:15 pm 1 -3 pm 
• 
l 
3:30pm 4:30pm 
6pm 6:30pm 
I 
I 
7:30 & 10 pm 
7:30pm 
7:30pm 
8 pm 
8 pm 8pm 
_: ~ 9:30 • 
I 
11 pm
·io_ . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . .. ... . . . . .. ... . . . ... . . . . .. . . . . . . .. . . ... . ~ 

., 
.. 
·-•• ­




GO DUTCH!! 
senior formal 

Tickets Still Available 
from 2 to 4 pm1 LaFortune Ballroom & LeMans LobbY. 
mass. offered by fr. griffin. Iafortune ballroom. blood station. volunteers at infirmary from alumni and walsh halls. . computer course. cobol. rm. 115 computer center. 
meeting. all nd-smc juniors concerning senior trip. 
eng. aud. ~· 

film. howard hall lenten film series. "catholics". · · howard hall chapel. free. 
film. "bang the drum slowly" directed by john hancock. sponsored by cinema 77. eng. aud. $1. 
meeting. philosophy honor society. prof. ralph meinerny will speak and lead discussion on poetic language. 
meeting. charismatic eucharistic prayer meeting. · log chapel. 
theatre. shakespeare, performed by the national theatre co. sponsored by nd cultural arts commssion. o'laughlin aud. tickets. $2. 
concert. "new baroque trio" little theatre free admission. 
lecture "genetics and medicine" by henry I. nadler, 
m.d. given research prof., chairman, dept. of pediatrics, northwestern univ. med. school. galvin life science aud. 
nazz. tom soma. 
~ 
. 
. 
· : 

. , 
·•· 
! 



; ND cheerleaders selected 
l 
by Kathy ConneUy 

The cheerleading squad for 1977­78 was selected last Saturday afternoon by a seven member 
, panel. 
The selections began with an : organizational meeting followed by ~ several clinics that offered instruc­
~  remained  after the  first  cut  last  
:_-.  ··wednesday~  All of the 15  men  
who  tried  out  remained.  Last  
J  Friday afternoon  the  prospective  

~ cheerleaders were interviewed as
: to their reasons for wanting to join 
. ' 
the squad. "We feel that being a cheerlea­der for Notre Dame is significantly different than for other universi­ties," Pat Bergin, men's squad captain, said. Bergin, a junior American Studies major in his third year with the squad, stated, ''A great deal of a cheerleader's res­ponsibilities involve public rela­tions in that they represent the University at away games. This is especially important because of the unique spirit and large following of Notre Dame." The ju,dging this year was done by persons totally unrelated in any way to the University. The seven judges were selected from cheer­leading coordinators, and gymnas­
*The Observer 
Night Editor: Bill Rivard Asst. Night Editor: Steve Odland layout Staff: Patti Vidal, Cindy McKiel Editorial Layout: Mo Flynn Sports Layout: Bob Keen Frank LaGrotta Typists: Nancy Cueroni, Karen Chiames, Stephanie Urillo, Mel Celeste Night Controller: Donald Roos Day Editor: Mary Pat Tarpey Copy Reader: Cathy Nolan Ad Layout: Pat and Nancy Photographer: Kevin Walsh 
The Observer is published Monday through Friday and weekly during the summer session, except during the exam and vacation periods The Observer is published by students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College Subscriptions may be purchased for $20 per year ($10 per semester) from The Obser­ver, Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press All reproduction rights are reserved 
tic and dance instructors in the South Bend area. 
In the final cut on Saturday five men and five women were chosen. Almost all of the women have gymnastic or cheerleading experi­ence. Most of the men have participated in some sports, inclu­ding gymnastics. 
The women are freshmen Loretta Ransom of Saint Mary's and Lisa Chavez of Notre Dame, Michele Gilson, from St. Mary's and Patty Kulic of Notre Dame (both retur­ning from last year) and Stacy Weaver of Notre Dame, all juniors. The captain of the women's squac is Sue Olin, a sophomore busines!) major at Notre Dame. 
"Pat and I are very excitea about the squad this year," Olin said. "New members mean new ideas. It will be rough initially learning to work together, but that's the case in any new squad.'' 
The men are Bill Leicht, a freshman, Dave Schlafer, a sopho­more returning from last year, Paul· Adams and Ed Hourigan, also sophomores, Dave Lauer and the squad captain Pat Bergin, both juniors. 
Squad captains are elected bv 

r--------------------~----~-------~--,
I SHARE THE RIDE 

the squad after the last basketball game of the season. 
Joe Cosgrove returns as the Notre Dame leprechaun. Selection for leprechaun involved a three­minute interpretation of the spirit of the Notre Dame leprechaun, an Irish jig, a personal interview and a short speech. 
need resumes in a hurry? 

\~~ 


~~~~ ~~lrf5··.·.·····
( -(j .. ..... ,..
flj)


::. ~;-.I
"-....._ : . ' 
•nsly·pr1nls• 
the wiz of the prlntint biz! 
rag bond 2 5 -8 1/2 X 1 1 $2.55 203 N. Main So Bend 289-697 
I 
I 
I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I 
r 
~ . 


.....................__J·-~--......,..........-...~---···-·-··--·--·-----··=..·---~ 
WITHUS ON WEEKENDS, HOLIDAYS,ANYTIME. 
When you want to take a break, why fly? Grey­hound'll save you more. No lie. So say hello to a good buy. Go Greyhound. You can leave when you like. Travel comfortably with friendly people. And arrive refreshed, and on time. Best of all, you'll save a good buck. So next iime, say hello to a good buy. Go Greyhound. 

GREYHOUND SERVICE 
TO  ONE­ ROUND­ YOU CAN  YOU CAN  
WAY  TRIP  LEAVE  ARRIVE  
CHICAGO CLEVELAND DE:TROIT MILWAUKEE PITTSBURGH  7.40 20.05 15.65 12.30 29.85  14.10 38.10 29.75 23.40 56.65  5:45pm 4:00pm 11 :JSam I 0:20am 7:15am  8:50pm 10:15pm 4:45pm 1:15pm 5:10pm  

Ask your agent about additional departures and return trips. · 
GREYHOUND AGENT 

SAYHELLOTOAGOOD BUY.® GO GREYHOUND. 

I 
I I I i 
I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I 
! I 
I 
i 
I 


~~------------­
., 
1 Tuesday, April 5, 1977 the observer 






DC-9 jet crashes, kills 67 
.. NEW HOPE, Ga. (AP) -At the plane. "I sa~ several that were thP Hubbard Pants factory, wheie a i least 67 people were killed yester• 1 burned to death." temporary morgue was set up, the I day when a Southern Airways DC-9 Some of the wreckage hit a Paulding County sheriff's office 
jet, struggling to make it through woman standing in a nearby yard, said. Other bodies were at , bad weather with both engines out, killing her instantly, another eye-j Paulding County and Kennestone exploded into flames while attemp-witness said. 1 hospitals.1 ting a crash landing on a coun~ry The debris was scattered over 1 The crash came eight days after road. about a mile. Piles of wreckage up the worst disaster in aviation The plane, flight 242, carried 81 to five feet high smouldered near history, the collision of two 747. 
, passengers and a crew of four. The two wrecked cars, a burned-out jumbo jets on an airport runway in. pilot reported a cracked windshield home and the only recognizable Ithe Canary Islands where 572 and both engines were out, accord-piece of the plane, the tail section, Ipersons were tilled. 
, ing to the Federal Aviation Admin-about 30 feet long. I A spokesman for Southern said istration. Burned trees, sheared by the 1 the crash was the first in /Southern's "It exploded, just like a ball of plane, marked the first portion of i 28-year history involving a sched­fire into the air," said Steve Jones, the crash scene. uled airliner. The Marshall Uni­
I 

. who saw the crash about 35 miles FAA spokesman Jack Barker versity football team was tilled in \northwest of Atlanta. "It was total said, "The pilot was in radio 1970 when a chartered Southern destruction, nothing less." communication with the Atlanta air crashed at the Huntington,
J 

The injured were taken by heli-traffic control and reported a . Va. 
I 
I copter and ambulance to nearby flameout in both engines.'' •ii-iloiiiii__.,..______.,. hospitals. Another FAA spokesman said a1_ _ Douglas Whaley, professor of law at Ohio State University, The flight was bound from the pilot was "trying to bring it in fle, spoke yesterday to business students on consumer law. The t Mussel Shoals and Huntsville, somewhere, obviously trying to lecture was one in the Memorial Lecture Series offered by the ·, Ala., to Atlanta in stormy weather. make an emergency landing some-1 __ ) 1
w 
Business Department. [Photo by Kevin Walsh] ' 1 -~ pilot was trying to get to where out there in that rural area." lruJ1ammer ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Dobb~gsA~Fo~eBase~Mari-The ~ane we~ down~ 4:15 J 
Women 's sports ,,·ghtlng 1 
I etta to make an emergency land-p.m. EST, he said. CREATIV
1 ling, but didn't make it, the FAA The survivors were being taken E-\said. to several area hospitals and some HAIR DESIGN 
. The jet came down on the were being transferred to the ·
among Concerns Of board 
[ d fr ] ihighway, in front of a school, but 1 Grady Memorial Hospital burn FOR THE SEXES
1 1

co~t.nue om_ pag~ . . resolve problems arising among 1 veered off. It crashed through a center in downtown Atlanta. notlcmg the disparities there 10 men's and women's halls concern-small general store and slammed I Most of the bodies were taken to 
RElAXING 
what people were compl~ining ing the planning of social activities, into a wooded area where several i.l·· I . ------· 
ATMOSPHERE
ab~ut. There ~as no area until no,,w problems with campus lighting, r ---. 
hi h d It th d homes were located. Jones said. NEED LOW-COST 
I I
w ,,c ea ~I _coe coD:cerns. development of women's sports
Coeducation I not Oin t0 The store owner and his wife, TRANSPORTATION... I 
FREE HAm ANALYSIS
, . . s g.. g go and other situations pertaining to -, 
away Gill Continued Charles and Mildred Newman, I We can help.
The area
' . . · . coeducation, according to yester-
RK RETAIL CENTER 
of coeducation IS expandmg across day's Observer. were in the building, but were not . Contact: I the c~untry and here, and of I Thompson, who is in the infirm-killed, according to the Paulding I Auto Driveaway Co. : 
necessity these Problems mu5t be County sheriff's office. I 674_9786 I 
ary was not available for comment. 
1637 LWW
dealt with., • "There was fire going every-Deposit Required • 
1 So. Bend 
232-6622
Gill said Thompson, as coed •.~·· where," said Mrs. John Clayton, Returned at Destination I " 
· · 'll b f · h · wife of the New Hope fire chief. Appt. only.• 
commissioner, WI e mee I?g wtt \ . NtUtl . .• She said bodies were hurtled from --Must be 21.-­
women rectresses and w1th Sr. · ·. . John Miriam Jones, assistant pro-· .· 
Starts Friday .
vostandchairma~oftheco~mittee Concert features sonatas 
I

to study coeducation, and will work with them on problems specifically 


Exclusive Engagement! NEXT TO NORTH VILL.AGE llll1
music theory and composer at thegeared to coeducation. A pianist-composer and inter­
'U.S. 31 NORTH
University of Chicago, will be 
277-1522

In l943
Women's concerns will also be nationally acclaimed violinist will joined by Paul Zukofsky, acclaimeddealt with specifically through this perfoqn three sonatas during . a 

sixteen Gennan
· as the foremost interpreter ofcommission. Thompson will be concert at 8:15p.m. Wednesday m contemporary violin music in the 
paratroopers
working with the academic the Memorial Library auditorium. 
nation, during the performance ofcommission to set up an interdis­The concert is sponsored by the 
landed in
Debussy's "Sonata," "Second Vi­ciplinary women's studies program Music Department and is open to 
England.
olin Sonata" by Blackwood, andand will be working for women's the public without charge. 
"Violin Sonata"by Ernest Bloch.

affairs in other activities. Easley Blackwood, professor of 
In three days
Zukofsky made his Carnegie Hall 
"Anne's (Thompson) ideas will debut in 1956 and has since 



they almost
be forthcoming," Gill explained, Honor society appeared with the Boston Philhar­
won the War.
"after she has met with the mnic, BBC Scottish Symphony, rectresses and the coed com · to install officers London Sinfonietta and the New 
mittee." Thompson, however, has 
York Philharmonic. He is a director 
stated that she will attempt to at annual dinner of the Contemporary
Cent~r for Performance Practice and is aThe Notre Dame chapter of Beta 
Lenten series guest artist and conductor at
Gamma Sigma, a national honorary 
several university campuses each
business society, will install its new



ends tonight year.
me111bers and officers tonight at it annual banquet in the Monogram
• The Howard Academic-Cultural Room.
Commission will round out its Speaking to the society's ini­Lenten film series tonight at 6:30 tiates and members will be Richardwith a presentation of the C.B.S. 
Gamitz, Director of the Office ofPlayhouse 90 film "Catholics". 
International Marketing of theThe film deals with a conflict of Department of Commerce. 
Post-Vatican II values with the Among the initiates will be 24
values of Pre-Vatican II, especially in the areas of worship and social juniors who are in the top five 
percent of their class, 25 seniors,
justice. The film stars Trevor who, together with those studentsHoward and Martin Sheen. It is initiated last year, comprise the top free and open to the public. 
ten percent of their class; 13 Su uote margl·n graduate students who are in the 
r 1 top 20 percent of the graduate 1 u• • ,1 business school; and five facultycaIIed uno.•ICia1 members who have taught at Notre 
Dame for two or more years. The 5-4 vote reported in Sunday' nig_ht's ~eelection of the Stude.nt Juniors: Meet in 
Un1on dtrector was not an offiCJal • • count, according to Robin Laven-Enganeerlng Aud. 
der, director of the Ombudsman service. Lavender indicated. Ye:'· Be there· AlohaI 
terday that the exac!_ margm ts • • 
officially known only by her. 1 A general class meeting for all ND-SMC juniors will be held tonight at 6 p.m. in the Engineer­

Shakespeare: a 
ing auditorium. The topic of the meeting is the Senior Class Trip. 

musical-comedy? 
Anyone unable to attend should contact Rosie Appelbe 7983 or Pat
Come and see 
Flynn 1854. The Cultural Arts Dance and Drama Series is sponsoring its last Bartenders lab major event of the year, Tues., 

sche<tuled

April 5. CAC will present "Shakes· peare Is Alive And Well And Living The Free University course on In America" at O'Laughlin Audi­bartending, taught by Phil Volpe, torium at Saint Mary's College. will hold its lab on Wednesday, 
The play, a musical comedy April 13. The class will meet at 9 based upon the works and charac­p.m. in the Saint Mary's Club­ters of William Shakespeare, is house. Only those students who being performed by the National have paid their lab fee will be Theatre Company. Tickets are $2. allowed to attend the lab. 


.. 

*The Observer 
EDITORIAL BOARD 

an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's Marti Hogan Editor-in-Chief Martha Fanning Managing Editor Bob Brink Asst. Managing Ed.
The Observer is published by students of the University 
Kathy Mills Executive Editor
of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. It does not 
Maureen Flynn Editorial Editor
necessarily reflect the policies of either institution. The 
Barb Breitenstein Exec. News Editor
news is reported as accurately and as objectively as 
Tom Byrne Campus Editor

possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of 
jean Powley St. Mary's Editor
the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions and letters 
Katie Kerwin News Editor

are the views of their authors. Column space is available 
Paul Stevenson Sports Editor
to all members of the community, and letters are 
Pat Cole Special Projects Ed.
encouraged to promote the free expression of varying 
David O'Keefe Features Editor
opinions on campus. 
BoxQ

Business Manager Sue Quigley 
Notre Dame 
Copy Editor Barb Langhenry

Advertising Manager Steve Bonomo Ind. 46556 Photo Editor Paul Clevenger
Production Manager Karen Chiames 
0 
-w 


Tuesday, April 5, 1977 




P.O. Box Q 
amusing and equally idiotic. Here are some real alternatives
The only Decision 
to relieve your dilemma: 1. You could raffle off your 5 tickets to
logical should stand 
your gigantic fan club. It would be a disappointment for the losers, Dear Editor:alternative but wJth the money you could buy a I wish to express great concern 
brace to relieve all the weight over the recent disputes relating to you've carried these last four years the selection of the Student union Fellow Seniors: on your back. 2. You could go Director. It is unfortunate that a 
down to Plains, Ga., on Nov. 2, new regime must enter office with 1980 and watch the election returns
I am not a chronic letter-writer. I such a note of irresponsibility. The certainly am not a radical, in fact I with a real winner!! (But you can selection of Tom Gryp was suppos­seldom complain. However, the only have 5 tickets) ed to have been one of great recent letter to the editor in regards 3. You could have signed a deliberation. If this was the case. to ticket allocation has moved me to petition, as I did, last week • then there should be no question as write. petitioning to have commencement to Mr. Gryp's status. If this was outdoors in the stadium so all your not the case, then a clear lack of In defense of the administration 
fan club could come and see you responsibility has been displayedI feel Mr. Garagiola's attack was graduate. Won't that be fun. by our selection committee. In any
completely unwarranted. I have 
Is the issue here how many case, this committee should stand worked hard, on my own, to pay for people you can get inside the by its original decision. my education here and I would 
. A.C.C. or do I detect some anti-A committee of this nature 
hardly consider this action a strike 
Carter sentiments in your Jetter? should be immune to the pressures
at myself ot my parents. As far as 
I can only speak for myself, and of popular opinion; if not, its 
insensitivity goes, does this hor­will do so when someone makes an 
integrity is lost. Careful voting and
rible action by the administration 
unwarranted, unprovoked attack decision making should have been 
rank with the throwing out of three 
upon someone, even if it is the at the forefront of the stlccti< .1 
students last April for alleged drug administration. Aren't we selfish. 
process. Apparently it was not.
charges? 

I consider it quite an honor to Meanwhile the student body. for have President Carter give the which all of this is conceived. is left There are approximately 10.000 
commencement address. Just without a Student Union Director. 
tickets out of a seating capacity of 
think of it. a President. elected by According to the rules, Tom 11,035 allocated to the students. 
the people, not appointed bv some Gr_vp should be the next Student 
How could thev be so insensitive?? crook, who can tie his own shoes 
Union Director if he is approved by 
Your point about loved ones is and can also eat with a fork! 1hope the Board of Commissioners. This well-taken. However, Idon't know the administration considers the 
is not a support of Tom Gryp. It is.
of too many families who are 
Seniors' petition for having gradua-rather. a support of due proce~s
DC-10 come
renting a to out for tion outside bec~use, to date. it is and more importantlv the student 
graduation. 

the only logtcal alternative body, ,,vhich deserv~~ much more 
I found your proposal of unin­
possible. '-tha~ it has received from its elected 
viting President Carter particularly 
officials. Dick Mattie Peter G. Haley 
opinion~~~~~~~~~~~~ 

Mudslinger Moran ~iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii timothy heiImann 
I find it difficult to believe that install a successor who meets with has no connection whatsoever with The Observer has lost sight of its his personal approval. Perhaps the­the Student Union, that the SU duty to present a fair and unbiased charge ''attempting to perpetuate a book exchange and the Quickee are appraisal of campus questions to clique" might also be applied to not exactly big-time operations, the extent that was witnessed in Mr. Ricci's actions.. and that the office of SU Admin­last Friday's issue. By presenting Mr. Moran next bares the pro­istrative Assistant is valuable only three one-sided articles protesting blems presently being faced by the if the holder uses it to tackle new the selection of Tom Gryp as SU Student Union, citing several ex­problems and establish a rapport Director, the editorial staff reduced amples of overspending and mis­with his co-workers. The Observer to the level of a management within the present What Mr. Moran fails to realize political mouthpiece, through administration. He goes on to in all of this is that experience as which losing factions can whine declare that only an "experienced" such is only one of the means by about their defeats. I wish to director can lead the Student Union which one may gain the ability address myself specifically to the out of ·this financial mess. As the needed to do a job properly. By his column written by Mr. Moran, only persons with enough "exper­work in the Bender campaign, Tom which typifies the misinformation ience'' to satisfy Mr. Moran are Gryp has proven that he has the and faulty logic which have com­among those in the present admin­ability to effectively organize a pletely distorted the issues at hand. istration who are responsible for large group of people and direct 
the problems in the first place, them successfully to a common
In the course of his article, Mr. 
asking these same persons for the goal. Perhaps if Mr. Moran had at
Moran contradicts himself repeat­
solutions makes about as much least taken the time to meet and get
edly, removing his foot from his 
sense as asking Nixon's White to know Tom Gryp, before beginn­
mouth only occasionally in order to 
House aides how to restore peo­ing his mud-slinging, he would
personally insult Tom Gryp. After 
ple's faith in government. I suggest have realized that this is so.
wiping away this political mud, 
that it is time to inject some new As I see it, Moran's real worry is 
let's take a look at what he's really 
ideas and perspectives into the that the tightly-knit Student Union
saying. 

Student Union at the directorship group will be shaken up by some 
First Mr. Moran charges the level as possibly the best means of new faces and ideas, as he and Bender Administration with polit­correcting its present woes. several other SU biggies are pull­ical patronage a Ia Daley in Finally, Moran attempts to com­ing all the strings they can to keep selecting Gryp; yet nowhere do I pare the credentials of the various the newly-appointed director out of 
read any direct substantiation for candidates. On close inspection, office. this claim. Further, I suggest that however, the "extremely impres­I suggest that we end all this the same charge be levelled at sive" credentials which he lists maneuvering and pettiness and let present SU Director Ken Ricci, who lose a lot of their glitter. Using Tom Gryp do the job he was seems to be doing his darndest to Moran's own standards. I might selected to do. I think he'll surprise 
overturn the Board's decision and point our that the HPC chairman a few people. 

tion, one understands what actually 
• happens. Where salary scales areJames defined, they are flexibly adjusted to the professional realities of
robinson varying ranks and different disci­plines. Negotiations include funds 
Professor of EngUsh for merit raises and awards for 
President, Notre Dame Chapter excellence. Contracts include. defi· 
AAUP nitions of the principles of the 

profession (like academic freedom. 
I was surprised when I woke up and tenure) and definitions of the 
one day to find I did not oppose a decision-making professional 
collective bargaining system for a bodies and processes of the given 
University Faculty and Administra­university. This aspect of negotiat­
tion. I realized my opposition had ed contracts reads something like 
been based on a series of phantom our Academic Manual. Agree­
misconceptions. My awakening ment, in short, about the govern· 
was the result of an evolution of ance system is incorporated as part 
reading about the subject and of the collective bargaining system. 
learning from visiting speakers and The difference is that in a collective 
others about the actual experiences bargaining agreement a grievance 
of collective bargaining in higher structure is clearly sanctioned to 
education. insure that a cooperative system of 
One phantom is that collective governance is respected, and re­bargaining brings a bevy of alien membered. Under collective bar­negotiators into the campus aca­gaining the individual faculty mem­demic structure and life. Not so. ber would then be assured that his Negotiators are on-campus faculty or her academic integrity and members elected by faculty mem­bers within the elected on-campus agency. 
Another phantom is that collec­tive bargaining destroys collegial­ity. that sense of academic com­munity and colleague-ship that we especially cherish in a human institution like Notre Dame. Con­sider a moment. This sense of collegiality exists at Notre Dame, and profoundly so, in the everyday academic life as that is generated by students and faculty members between anC: among themselves. What we ne d is a way to convey that sense o. academic community to the administration tables where the decisions about our academic life are made. Collective bargain­ing is a method of cooperation between faculty and administra­
tion. At the negotiating table the 1;~~~~~~~~:~~1~;~~~~i
faculty sense and knowledge of 1: needs affecting the quality of academic life would be conveved in such a way as to contribute v~d cogently to decisions about the for most the ·last investment in our academic life. century, since Pope Leo XIII .. not simply the investment in our · notiCed that. a Christian future. but the investment in our · ~unum persons includes the vital present. Collective bargain-,{)fan empl<:wee to i):ave ·.·... 1 . 
~~f1 ~=~~b=e~~~iti~; ~~~x~a;o'!:;~u~ >tirsayabout the placeh~wor.!fiil; . nal responsibility. sOmetimes the \\•orker ·neeJI,,avoic-e • because his employ.,.;ills
There are so many phantoms: starving him. Sometimes he$tuse 
that collective bargaining protects . mediocrity. levels salaries, creates the place is a cruel place to wotk in.. bureaucratic redtape. promotes a . Sometim~~ because th~ plac.. ~ill time-clock mentality. Nonsense. If be better tf he has a votce. lthtnk one reads the contracts that have Not1;e Dame v.'ould be a lietter been negotiated in higher educa-pla'<;e ifthose \\;ho te;i<;h here Jad _a :;:;:;:;::;:;:;:;::;:;:;:::::::::;:;:;::::::::::::::::::::::;:::::::::::;:;:;:;:;:;:::::::::::::::::::"::.::::·':·:::·::::··:;;·:':·:·:··:~-:·::·.;:;.;.;:;:;:;:;:;::::::::::::::::=:::::=::::::::~::::::::: :::: effort ignores this. :~:: At present. the tangible reward a :;:: 
faculty member receives for his ::=: 
professional competence is a salary :;:;
john 

Iucey 
Associate Professor Mechanical Engineering 
Collective bargaining (unioniza­
tion) for the Notre Dame faculty 
would be a first long step toward 
intellectual mediocrity. 
The motivation for collective bargaining at Notre Dame seems to be two-fold. The professed reason of the AAUP is to increase the faculty's participation in gover­nance of the University. There has been dissatisf<tction with some administrative decisions and poli­cies. In retrospect, however, those decisions and policies have gen­erally been of long term benefit to the University. Governance by committee would not be an im­provement, but rather end by being no governance at all. 
In fact, the unspoken rationale for unior:ization seems to be financial. It is ll fact that those institutions which have adopted collective bar­gaining have substantially increas­ed the average faculty salary after their first round of negotiation. But there is only a finite amount of money available. If the salary budget goes up, something else must go down, maintenance per­haps. maybe clerical pay. Or, most shortsighted of all, the funds come out of endowment. Any reason­able person would like an increase in pay, but that increase cannot be isolated from the University's over­all financial situation. The rhetoric which surrounds the unionization 
which reflects the general salary ~:~: 
level in his professional field and :;:; 
his ability (or lack thereof) as 
perceived by the department chair­
men, deans and such. Despite the 
protestations of the AAUP organi­
zers. a uniform salary scale. unre­
lated to either merit or profession, 
is a likely consequence of collective 
bargaining here. just as it has been 
elsewhere. 
The real rewards of teaching, however. are not financial. If monetary reward were our prime criterion for success and happi­ness, few of us would be here. Our real reward is the joy of working with the intelligent young men and women we teach, in being part of their intellectual growth. 
Institution of collective bargain­ing would adversely effect the involvement in several ways. The increased amount of time given to union activity would inevitably decrease the amount of time avail­able for students. 1"he institution of another bureaucratic layer be­tween the faculty member and the administrative structure would make it more difficult, rather than less, for the faculty and administra­tion procedures, etc., to improve the learning process in a timely fashion. ; 
This University is a much super­ior institution academically, physi­cally, administratively, than the one I graduated from some years past. To select the option of faculty unionization would undo much of the good that has been done for the University in return for, at best, a modest financial reward for some. The prize is not worth the price. 
person will not be ignored, as can happen in a bureaucratic system where administrators of a narrowly managerial bent are wont to create efficient systems of operation at the expense of academic objectives and faculty responsibility. A grievance structure, an appeal system, is a simple way to remind us of the human substance of our organiza­tions. 
I am not embarrassed to say also that coJlective bargaining brings promise of elevation of the levels of faculty salaries. Collective bar­gaining does not create new money but \toes allow for the appropriate use and just distribution of avail­able funds. We know that salary scales at Notre Dame are mediocre compared to other universities of our kind and pretensions. If salaries and research funds can be increased and the size of the faculty augmented to such a degree and in such a way as to enhance the quality and dignity of our enter­prise, then so it should be enhanc­
g*~j~~~:it1n .
of/Fr,nild.ifl•.•···.··. . . , <thai< . elone:s....i places of 

work as much as it belongs in places of government.. It belongs even . itt· universitY·.·. maintenance . 
shops and Catholic high schools. 
ed. . The ultimate phantom is that ·~~~· 


}b rt 

co11ective bargaining in a university :;: a e a 
is somehow subversive. Good grief!:;: rOSS Tite right to organize is a human ;:;: right, and a hum~n right promoted t Associate Professional Specialist 
by Church teachtng and guarante-:::: Radl tl Laborato 
. ·:·: a on ry
ed by the law of the land. I beheve :-:· Vi id t N tre D Cbapte
. .·.· ce-pres en o ame r
the matunty of the Notre Dame :;:~ 'AAUP Faculty calls for a more mature, :;:; more sophisticated mode of organ-:;:; ization than is allowed us under the ;:;: I do not favor the establishment present rubrics as these are domin-:~;~ of a faculty bargaining unit at Notre ated by the Administration. Ob-:;:; Dame. Collective bargaining in a viously those of us who favor ;:; university is a formal method, collective bargaining want the best :;:;· regulated by law, for the faculty University possible as indeed mem-:;= and the administration to negotiate bers of the Administration and ;:; and make agreements. In order to faculty now opposed to collective ::~; arrive at a contract there is bargaining want the best Univer-:;: pressure on both sides to compro­sity possible. The question is the ;:;: mise. Administrations consistently role of the faculty, and the issue is ;:;: yield on compensation; faculties the means. The decision whether ;:;:which bargain collectively can ex­collective bargaining is the best ;:;: pect higher pay. The points on means is a decision that only the ;:;: whch faculties yield may be quite Faculty can make. I hope each :~;~diverse but it should be apparent faculty member considers the case, } that some points would be given 
and dismisses the phantoms. 


•




counter-potnt 
john lyon 

Chairman General Program of Liberal Studies 
As is the case with other human beings, professors at this Univer­sity are underpaid and overworked; 
their priceless advice is wasted upon the deaf ears of those chosen to determine and then execute policy decisions which in­volve them; their children have been reduced to smoking pot in order to bear the antinomies of existence in this capitalist world of moral hideousness and low pay; and faculty unionization would change nothing. 
Proponents of faculty unioniza­tion at Notre Dame ordinarily cite two issues in which faculty inter­ests are deeply embedded, (faculty compensation, and faculty partici­pation in the governance of the University) and claim that union­ization would assist the faculty in gaining their ends in both. It is not obvious that this is so in either case. I shall try to detail the reasons for this. 
Unionh:.ation is a zero-sum game. Its "benefits" accrue to the first to unionize, and to those who sub­sequently belong to the most powerful unions. One force which 
seems to drive faculty members toward unionization results from the maddening perception that they are not living as well as the teamster next door, or the steel­worker down the block. They never will, whether they be unionized or 

not.  And  the  adoption  of  a  
faculty  union  would  bring  with  
it  all  the  undesirable  epiphe­ 

nomena of unionization, and a few peculiar to faculty unions: the sort of corporate action guaran­teed not to respect distinctions finely drawn by the mind or that sort of idiosyncratic behavior so characteristic of academicians; the necessity of supporting union of­ficers in a fashion to which they would become accustomed; etc. 

Of course, a faculty union at Notre Dame would not have the task of coercing society-at-large. Society-at-!arge does not pay the fees and create the endowment out of which the faculty are recompen­sed: Our students, alumni and alumnae, friends and benefactors do that. They alone would have to be coerced. And by a sort of inexorable logic, student unioniza­tion should thus follow faculty unionization. When the name of the game becomes ''power,'' and not "reason," one should not expect the sheep to allow them­selves to be fleeced endlessly, even to save their sheepskins. 
It is not· at an obvious that the sort of~retentious mass-democra­tic ethos generated by unions is compatible with the performance :;:; up. After the contract has been :::: 
;;:;;:;;:;;;;;;;;;;:;:::;:::;:;;;:;,;;;;;;;:;;;;:::;;:=:; some university faculties have ob-would have to be financed bv the 
CoUectJvt~.b:anrai·Jni"ng,}f it works 
\..Jttere~ ·wo1tna: ormg. acoountability·.to Nnrre Dame. 1don't know· whether Jt will. The facu1tyt . once 
· · organized. may · not accept ·its responsibility. It may not insisto~ an accounting of what. tfie man­agement of the university does· to· our resources, and to our opportu~ tiities to teach, to lead, and to learn. But we won't know if we don't try;·.· Everything I know about human beings suggests that they become responsible when they are given responsibility. The creation of ~ol1ective bar-. gaining at Notre Dame won't call anybody's bluff but our own. We professors have been saying for years that the government of t~e university should {)e in sotri;e measure entrusted to those who dedicate their lives and profession:­at promise to the enterprise•.. We know what the alternative·is.: ··· 
.·~~~:· 

======================================================~ 
expected of academic ''profession­
als" by society or by themselves. Professional competence is not to be determined either by a majority vote of a Supreme Soviet of Confederated Comrades or by ad­ministrative ukase, tsarist orcomis­
arist, -although what is expedient for the class of academicians under a given set of circumstances may well be determined by either. 
Of course, the personal life may be dead in Academia. 
It is not at all obvious just how the new administrative elite to be spawned by a faculty union would differ from the present administra­tive elite of the University. 
To continue this consideration: 
the creation of a new faculty union 
administrative elite would simply 
add to the number of administra­
tors already here an entirely new 
set. Those who view the relation­
ship of administration to faculty as 
one of oppression or neglect of the 
latter by the former would now 
have the privilege of being oppres­
sed, or neglected, by two sets of 
administrators instead of one. Or, 
perhaps. one could choose by 
which set to be oppressed, or 
neglected. 
Either a faculty union would be effective or it would not. In the former case it would threaten academic freedom and traditional academic perquisites. In the latter case it would be superfluous. 
Nature imitates art as much as art imitates nature. Facts and theories are inextricably inter­.Tuesday, April 5, 1977 the observer 
---------------~~~~~~~~~----~ 
ratified, its provisions must be remembered that the areas for monitored and grievance proce­negotiations must first be agreed dures, which would almost certain­upon by the two parties; the areas ly be included, must be carried out. for collective bargaining relate to 
wages, hours, and working condi­
What are the alternatives? The 
tions. The administration is likely
problems which the faculty per­
to decline to negotiate in such areas
ceive could be presented to the 
as budget priorities and appoint­
administration without going to the 
ments and promotions, especially
bargaining table. The administra­
appointments of administrators, on
tion could be open in consulting 
the grounds that those functions
with and providing information to 
belong to management.
the faculty without coming to the 
The process of negotiating a
point of being legally required to 
, contract would be a costly enter­
release information to the faculty 
prise for the university. A few bargaining team. Grievance pro-faculty members would be required cedures, where lacking, could be to spend large amounts of time established within the present stru-acquiring information and produc­ctures. The provisions of the ing proposals and counterpropo­Faculty Manual can be monitored, sals. Several members of the and where found lacking, revised. administration would be similarly One of the goals of the faculty in . occupied. It would be expected pursuing collective bargaining is an that these activities would not increased role in governance of the replace the deliberations of various University. University governance university bodies and some consul­is shared to varying degrees be-tations between faculty and admin­tween faculty and administration in istration. The collective bargaining different universities. Although project would be a new activity and 
tained greater roles in governance various components of the u~iver­
through collective bargaining, it is sity involved in it. The resources 
my opinion that at Notre Dame that required might be better used in 
result is not likely. It should be other ways. :;:::;:;:;:::::::;:;:;:::::::::;:;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 
H========================================================== 


edward 
•

manter 
Associate Professor of PhUosophy Faculty Advisor Research and Sponsored Programs 
Where should ND rest its hopes 
for academic quality except with its 
faculty? The AAUP holds that 
"The faculty has primary respon­
sibility for such fundamental areas 
as curriculum, subject matter and 
methods of instruction, research, 
faculty status, and those aspects of 
student life which relate to the 
educational process.'' That princi­
ple is not in force at Notre Dame. It 
should be implemented in at least 
three key areas: (1) research and 
educational innovation, (2) faculty 
participation in the governance of 
the University, (3) protection of the 
scholar's professional dignity and 
autonomy. 
(1). ND currently budgets an insignificant amount for on-campus support of quality research and educational innovation. Faculty have no input into this crucial aspect of the budgetary process. The "Faculty Research Fund, 1977,'' amounted to $20,000. This is $33.33 for each of 600 faculty ·members, or $2000 every sixty years! There is no Faculty Teach­ing Fund to support educational innovation at ND! Funds award­ed at the discretion of the deans are small, dwindling, un­
predictable and usually unpubliciz­
ed. Notre Dame is at the point where both educational innovation and the opportunity to do signifi­cant research are the exclusive privilege of an elite ten to twenty­five percent of its faculty, an elite composed of the exceptionally tal­ented and the privately wealthy. This is an average of only two to four members in each department. Such low levels of support would, in the long run, depress the quality of any faculty. 
(2). In eighteen years on the faculty, I have served on almost everv elected council and commit­tee. They have little significance and less power. When a presiding administrator differs with a major­ity council decision, that decision may be reversed or reported ad­versely to the Board of Trustees. Neither the Academic Council nor the College Councils have organiz­ed standing committees which might develop independent tradi­tions of expertise and power: a hand-picked surrogate budget committee was appointed by the administration but its minutes ue never published. The Academic Council does not follow standard parliamentary procedures but is conducted according to local ''tra­ditions" which protect administra­tive power. Membership on a collective bargaining team would be a more economical and efficient use 
of  faculty  time  now  wasted  on  
university councils.  
(3).  Those who argue that  the  

designation of the AAUP as faculty collective bargaining agent would damage the professional integrity of the faculty have. in the past, volunteered little or no effort in the collective interest. There is· nothing dignified in the status of the isolated faculty member able to invoke grievance procedures only if he or she is tenured and dismissed for cause. The AAUP has more than 60 years experience in articu­lating, defending and implement­ing the highest standards of the academic profession. Its ''1049 Statement of Principles on Aca­demic Freedom and Tenure" is the authoritative document on this subject. In undertaking this card campaign, the officers and board of 
the ND AAUP chapter pledge the continuation and growth of that great tradition. Basically, we seek contractual insurance of meaning­ful and efficient faculty participa­tion in the governance of the­University. 
woven. To a very great extent, as we imagine things, so do we see them. In the prese.1t contest a basic issue is what metaphors shall be used to prefigure the basic relation­ships between the teaching faculty and the administrative faculty of the University. At present we have a mixed bag of metaphors with no consistent single figure of speech predominating: paternal, mater-· nat, fraternal, familial, and colle­gial images abound. To a lesser extent one notices professional, guild, craft, legal and religious images used to specify the network of relations on campus. All such images, of course have embedded in them various forms of antagon­ism as well as various forms of cooperation. One feels safe in this polyimagistic configuration: one can choose ihe best or the most useful images to one: the confron­tation of power blocs, the Hobbe­sian "war of all against all" modified by Marxist dialectics for the sake of manipulation in binary thought patterns. The "best" and the ''most useful" are contlated, and the search for what Is becomes simply the search for what is useful for me, here and now. As an old teamsters slogan had it during an election campaign for presidency of the Union some years ago, "Hagerty for Integrity. Hoffa for President!'' 
To write this is an act of folly unless one has a private source of income. I do not. I only have a private source of outgo: 10 dependents. I have written, then, in praise of folly. 
But, after all, the only ati~ .ment for the existence l)f God t1; ..... ;.~""!f) "works" is one which moves from the fact of the spectacuh.-...~ •• 1 of the world to the Existence of a Spectator to whom it gives plea­sure. The alternative would simply be more absurd: to assume that the process were isolated and self-contained. Such a waste of spectacles without Spectator(t) would be a spectacular waste indeed. 
Tuesday, April 5, 197i' .
the observer 






Cawelti discusses myth of 'proper' sexuality 
by Marian Ulicny Senior Staff Reporter 

"I want to talk about storie~ tonight--rather simple stories tha· can be told in many different versions and still retain their simple pleasures,'' John Cawelti stated last night to introduce his discussion of ''Spacemen and Pornographers: Changing Myth­ologies of Popular Culture." 
Cawelti outlined the components ·of three essential stories under­lying popular forms in America. 
He described the myth of proper sexuality as the chronicle of the romantic difficulties of two central characters separated by class differences or misunderstandings. 
''The conflicts that separate them create a kind of testing situation of whether they adhere to certain values, such as ch~stity before marriage," he explained. If they succeed, they are granted the promise of eventual marriage. Transgression brings additional pitfalls. 
According to Cawelti, this myth can be traced to the late 18th century works of Samuel Richard­son. He compared Pamela and Clarissa to the works of such modern writers as Barbara Cart· Iandt, Georgette Heyer and Jac­queline Susann. 
The myth of effective individual action is characterized by a solitary hero who solves a problem, unable to be conquered by traditional 
social institutions, Cawelti stated. He cited the 19th-century Horatio Alger success story as a form which highlighted "the exceptional dili­gence and occasional acts of per­sonal courage through which the 
individual rises to middle class respectability, if not wealth." 
Other popular forms focusing on individual efforts against besetting social difficulties include thf Western and the American "tough­guy private. eye" stories, Cawelti added. 
The central figure in the myth of racial temptation and conquest is confronted with the danger of being "destroyed, corrupted or worst of all assimilated, by another culture, usually of another color," 
-Cawelti stated. The alien culture is 
by Mike Shleld11 
Staff Repol1ek 

Thirty-five Northern Indiana State Hospital personnel, including some Notre Dame student volun­teers, are being tested for traces of the infectious dysentery that force' the hospital to take isolati01 measures two weeks ago. 
Dr. Robert Crow, superintenden of the hospital, said the results o1 tests so far have been negative. Further tests will be taken later this week. 
Crow speculated that the dysen­tery, which has affected • eight people at the hospital, four of them staff members, was contracted from the outside community. Hospitalized children who attend public schools probably infected the hospital, Crow remarked. 
The St. Joseph County Board of "'""'th advised isolation proce­c s to stop the spread of the ~e. Crow said that "even .;tringent" measures than u• ·ecommended by the board 
• & _ 

...ken by the hospital. The flow of traffic into and out of the hospital is strictly regulated and will be until conditions are deemed safe. 
The 35 people being tested 
include staff members, registered volunteers illlU members of tlie -·~r Grandparent program. 
~..e ..,eople, who came in direct contact with the disease, were culture is viewed by the protagon­the times when something like that ists with "overt condemnation and goes out of business." latent attraction.'' He cited an In addition, Cawelti noted the example of this double standard in recent democratization of porn­19th century advertising which ography and the widespread dif­traditionally employed the Indian fusion of science fiction as indica­as the symbol of purity, potency, tions of a changing emphasis in natural wisdom· and strength. At American popular culture. the same time, however, the Indian Different mythical structures are was considered by popular opinion emerging to parallel those already to be ''a diabolical savage who established, Cawelti stated. Erotic should be Christianized or eradi­liberation and domination stressing cated, and it didn't particularly the freedom of instincts from matter which," he noted. restraints can be linked to the 
Symbolic versions of an imposing earlier myth of proper sexuality. 
p.m.

eventually overcome by a series of' .elevision series as "Bonanza" and 
233-0385

violent acts, he continued. "Gunsmoke" as examples, he A.ccording to Cawelti, the alien 'itated, "It's some kind of si~n of 
526 Western Ave., 
.South Bend 


University of Chicago sociology professor john Cawelti 
yesterday discussed 11Spacemen and Pornographers." · 
[Photo by Kevin Walsh] culture include animals, monsters, .c::-• ·1 Martians and such characters as • · · Dracula, The Creature from the SpeCial Mon.& Tues. Black _Lagoon and King Kong, '-Taco Di ~r $1.6(1Caweltt added. ~co· 4• 
·· · 
''The myths were all expressions ~· ~ 
n story form of tensions in tht ,'/h · 1 
middle class social order of the 19th ~.

a(/jj. 1 
I 

and 20th centuries," Cawelti lfj. '-::) · · ; 
explained. "Each myth portrayed n' ~ .·-."""'s·. B ·successful response to threats l!J....

T IQ .L U I • 
against such an order as a means of •~~I /Jf resolving ~ese latent confl~cts." \\ REST~ANT ~/1, Accordang to Caweltt, new \ ~ ~..,~· stories are replacing traditional 
) ~"-.... ._. .Att) ones, a situation made obvious in 
~~~~ .-•_, ~ the recent decline of the Western. 
~ 
:C~•'r. ~ 

Using the cancellations of such 
11 a.m. to 11 


Hospital workers tested 

THE


for infectious dysentery 
NATIONAL
1
given a stool smear to test foa 
A 1
possible signs of dysentery. 


THEATRE
three-day waiting period is necess­ary before a second testing may be taken. 

COMPA.NY 
The isolation of the hospital will have two effects on the volunteers. First, they must take a test for 
presents

signs of the disease. Secondly, volunteers will not be allowed into the buildings until clearance is given by the hospital. 
''We are missing .a resource we really appreciate," Crow said. "We will welcome back our volun· teers with open arms." 
·Pinball finale 

slated lor all Flanner residents .· 
The final pinball wizard tour­
nament will begin tonight at 8 p.m. 
in America, Flanner Hall's game 
room. 

The evening will begin with four 
campus-wide events: blindfolded 
team event; tandem team event; 
the lame duck competition and the 
sit-on-it event. The\winner of each 
will get a SS gift certificate. This Js 
open to all Notre Dame students. 
Following these events, the Wiz­
ard play-offs will be held for all 
eligible Flanner residents. Anyone 
with questions should contact Terry 
Buczkowski, Ameriea ManaRer. · · 
The threat of catastrophe has popular mythology reflects a supplanted the myth of racial changing viewpoint in American temptation and conquest. Such society. "The people are attracted films as "Jaws" and "The Pos-to new mythologies in order to eidon Adverture" display the understand a more frightening dangers of nature to modern civil-world that they feel around them," ization, Cawelti noted. Other he concluded. "New patterns dangers arise from technology, indicate a religious consciousness including nuclear holocausts and of reality on a world level." airplane accidents. Cawelti is a professor of socio-
The solitary hero has emerged as logy and humanities at the Uni­the violent avenger, according to versity of Chicago and co-director Cawelti. A film such as "Death of the National Humanities Insti­Wish" exhibits a new focus on "an tute. He has served as president of orgy of brute conflict.'' This new the Popular Culture Association mythic figure has grown out of and author of such works as "society's decaying belief in the "Adventure, Mystery and efficacy of individual potency Romance," "The Six-Gun Mys­against evil," he explained. tique," and "Apostles of the 
Accordin to Cawelti, the shift in Self-Made Man."
1 

Why Pay 60 cents on ca: 1•p..us•?•?.-ij 
AD Ogarettes 40 cents/pack +taxli 


I MAR-MAIN PHARMACY I 
426 N. Michigan I,
I. 
''Pack af M&Qegatd's" ......JI 

ND-SMC 
. 





JUNIORS!! 
Where do you 
~want to go for 
SENIOR TRIP? 
Important information nite 
Tonite, April 5 6pm 
engineering · aud. 
please come! if unable to atten~. 
contact Pat Flynn 1854 
OR Rose .~ppelbe' 7983 
Shakespeare ·is Alive SWell S Living in America. 
TUESDAY 
Spm O'laughlin Auditorium Aud. )1.00 ND-SMC $3.00 General 
sponsored by· Cultural Arts Dance and Dra•..a Series 


...



Frosh formal tuned to April 
~ . 
t by Diane WHson 
' 
"Pieces of April" will be the theme of the Freshman Formal to be held April 16 in the ACC concourse, according to Curt
f. 
Hench, chairperson of the Fresh­man Advisory Council. Tickets are now on sale from each Council member. 
On Tues., Apri112 the Advisory Council will hold their next meet­ing. At this meeting, Hench hopes a transition policy will be formulat­ed to help the 1977-78 sophomore class officers take over. The meet­ing is open to all freshmen. 
The Council is now working to "tie up loose ends," Hench stated. They have presented a report to the Freshman Year of Studies office on the advisibility of continuous fresh­man midsemester grades. They have also proposed a resolution to the Academic Council to do away with smoking in the classrooms. They also suggested changing the school calendar for Thanksgiving break by giving the students the Wednesday before Thanksgiving
I· 
off, to allow students to go home. 
! 
This year the Advisory Council has helped change the policy for freshman having cars on campus from after midsemester spring 
National League West 
cont'd. 

rcontinued from page 8J 
once the American League's Most Valuable Player. Then, he cost 
himself one year as owner of the team by signing free agent 
outfielder Gary Matthews. With Rowland Office between them, a 
respectable outfield is formed. 
In the infield, though, the Braves are shaky. Willie Montanez is one ofthe game's best at first, and Jerry Royster is a potential star at third. But the Double-play combo of Rod Galbreath and Darrel Chaney is porous. 
Dale Murphy, heralded as a young Johnny Bench, is probably a year away from being ready to take over as the regular catcher. so Vic Correll and Biff Pocoroba will handle the chores until then. The Braves better hope that it doesn't take Murphy more than a year. 
Andy Messersmith didn't return the investment Turner placed in him last year, and ther Braves are counting on more this year. Phil Niekro, Dick Ruthven, and a rejuvenated Buzz Capra will be the other starters, while Mike Marshall and Max Leon man the bullpen. 
The Braves have enough first-line players to escape the cellar, but their defensive weaknesses and shortcomings on the mound will subject them to the basement. 
break to the beginning of second , with students, and to take affirma-1 semester. They have also worked to ! tive action on matters brought 
open a freshman class account with Student Union. They advised Freshman Year on the testing done before freshman year at Notre Dame. 
The Freshman Advisory Council ' 1consists of one representative from ! each dorm, selected by the hall . 1 president. After the first few ~­
meetings, according to Hench, the 
1 Council elects its officers -a chairman, secretary, and treasurer. i Hench stated that the technical job l of the Councii was to work as a unit l to advise freshmen. This year though, he continued, the Council has worked to expand its powers, to get into better touch 

All clubs! register your activities 
All clubs and organizations must register with the office of Student Activities before April 30. Clubs interested in operating a conces­sion stand for home football games should also register this month. 
The Student Activities office is located in the lobby of LaFortune Student Center. 
before the Council. The council also tried to work together with Saint Mary's freshman class officers to get more interaction between the two schools. 
Hench termed this year's Coun­cil as being "successful." He said that they "expanded outside the I role of advisory,'' and he hopes j that Advisory Councils in the future I will "continue to work toward the goal of making the Council a : recognized part of student govern-. ment and giving it more of a role on 1 campus.'' 
2-YEAR NRoTC,,,,,,,,,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,_ 


§I:B(Dl!JlbaJI]§(DUIJ 
l!JIJIJ(]I]U(!JGJUU~ ~ 


l1.111.11ediate Benefits For Those Who Qualify 
•FULL 
TUITION FOR JUNIOR & SENIOR YEAR 

•ALL 
BOOKS 


•ALL 
EDUCATION, LAB FEES 

•$1 
00 MONTHLY SUBSIST ANCE 


A lot of companies will offer you an important sounding title. 
But how many offer you a really important job? 
In the Navy, you get one as soon as you earn your com­mission. A job with responsibility. A job that requires skill and leadership. A job that's more than just a job, because it's also an adventure. 
IF THATS THE KIND OF JOB YOU'RE LOOKING FOR, CALL 
'" 
Lt. Commander Nelson 283.6442 
Jlower orders and final seatin~ arrangements should now be made 
NO orders or seating requests to be taken after thursda 
--r=:tr= 
NOTICES 

Check your portfolio now! N.D. Mock Stock Market is still here! 10. 3, Old Business Building. 
Tickets for the Sunday April 17 LED ZEPPELIN concert at Market Square Arena in Indianapolis and the Thurs. April 14 Rush and Starcastle concert at Ft. Wayne Coliseum are now on sale at Just For The Record, 100 Center Under­ground in Mishawaka. 
SUMMER EUROPE FARE: FROM $287 to $379 LONG AND SHORT DURATION FLIGHTS. WEEKLY DEPARTURES AVAILABLE, CALL HENRI, 287-1198 ANYTIME. 
The annual $1.00 off and free papers sale is Tues, April 5 at Just For The Record, I 00 Center Underground from 8 am to midnight. No limit on albums, plus free music and re­freshments. 
Accurate, fast typing. Mrs. Donoho 232-0746, hours: Bam to 8pm. 
Europe'!W orldwide academic 
1 discounts year round S.A. T.A. 4228 First, Tucker, GA 30084 (800) 241-9082. 
N.D. Finance Club is bullish on America! Mock Stock Market, 10 . 3, Old Business Bldg. 
MORRISSEY LOAN FUND No more loans to May '77 grads. All others: last application date is April 6, last day to pick up loan is April 7. LaFortune Basement. 11:15-12:15 M-F. $20 to $150. 1 day wait. one percent interest. Due in 30 days. 
.MAY '77 GRADS All Morrissey loans must be paid by April 13. 
Amtrak to St. Louis over Easter Break. $33 round trip. Forms in Student Activities, Lafortune. 
Use the random walk theory and invest. Anyone can win!! Mock Stock Market. 
Faculty or staff wanting to sublet home or apartment during extended leave. Contact University Profes. 'Sional at 237·4421, Bam to Spm. 
Ride to Washington DC Wednesday r Thursday. Call Ellen 7874. 
' -~-----------­
! 
-~----------... ··----'~-... ,~,
................~~~--~~~~~----~--------~~------~------~--~----~~;;;;;;~~--~~~--~~--~--~~~..........~..........~..~~~~ 
. ·. .. ... . . . .. ... "~. e •• • • • • • • • I e • I "I ' . ' • -;to .... -. -·~ •, 
Niles Auction 802 Fort St. 684-6954 or 684-4671. Auction every Friday at 7:30. We buy and sell furniture, appliances, antiques and misc. items daily 12 :00 to 6pm. 
Need Typing? Executary, Inc. Professional Typing Service. 10 typists · various typestyles. Term Paters: 85 cents a page Resumes: $2.00 page Call 232-0898 
Need riders to San Antonio for Easter. 277-1232 after 11 pm. 
Attn: free univ. bartending stu­dents:· Lab will be held Wed. April 13 at 9pm in SMC Clubhouse, only for those students who have paid the lab fee. Phil Volpe. 
California Street String Band for Hoedowns, parties, and dances. Call 288-7732. 
FOR RENT 

Rooms tor rent this summer. Very reasonable and just a few blocks from Notre Dame. Phone 277-3604. 
4 bedrooms furnished apartment within walking distance of campus. Call William Hill, 232-1724. 
Two bedroom house to rent. Summer and or school year. 1012 Eddy Street. $120 mo. plus utilities. 
Call Oddies Harris at 232-8563. 
S bedroom house, real nice, large living room and kitchen, fully fur­nished, close to campus, has burglar alarm, call Charlie Mcore 272-7180. 
Avaliable tor Fall Semester: 2 excellent houses in fine neighbor­hoods. Each ideal for 5-6 students. 1021 DeMaude and 1016 Lincoln Way West. Call Mr. Gatto 234-6688 
LOST AND FOUND 

Lost: black leather gloves, near Hayes-Healy. Call Debbie 7906. 
Reward for 5 year old silver Seiko Watch lost in ACC before break. Much sentimental value. Larry 287-8301 or return to lost and found. 
Texas Instruments SR51 calculator lost in Freshmen Chern Lab. Substantial reward tor return. No questions asked. Call Mike 8327. 

Classified Ads 
Lost: Leninger's biochem book on 2nd floor Library. Despartely need it. Please call Diane, 1329. 
Found: pair of glasses behind engineering bldg. Call Mike at 8953. 
Lost: pair of glasses, black metal frame, black plastic case. If found Call Kevin 1682. 
WANTED 

NEED RIDE TO PITTSBURGH. 
CALL KATHY AT 1319. 
Desparately need ride to Elmhurst, Ill. tor Easter Break. Must leave no later than Thur. Will share ex. penses, Call Anne 4-5115. 
wanted: Ride to New Jersey on Tues. or Wed., April 5 or 6. Call Val8125. 
Need ride to 'and from Miami tor Easter break. Can leave Wed. night. 1am desperate. call 1424 and ask tor Bob. 
DESPERATELY NEED RIDE TO WICHITA KANSAS FOR EASTER. DIANE, 4-4348. 
Need ride to and from Ft. Lauder. dale area tor Easter break. Can leave Wed. will help with expenses. Please contact Cris 4-4983 or Beth 4-4992. 
WANTED: MARRIED STUDENT COUPLE (ONE CHILD OKAY) TO LIVE IN, AND BE COMPAINIONS TO THREE TEEN AGE BOYS. ROOM AND BOARD IN EXCHANGE. WOULD BE RE· QUIRED TO COOK FAMILY DIN­NER, DO LIGHT HOUSEWOR-K AND MINOR HOUSE REPAIRS. EXCHANGE REFERENCES. CALL 288-1411 or 291-1814 AND ASK FOR JOAN. 
My new Easter bonnet and party 
· shoes will go unwom if I don't get home (for the holidays). Ride needed to Chicago area .. Northwest suburbs on Wed. Call Pat 4-4985. 
4 housemates wanted, 5 bedroom in good neighborhood, 4 miles from campus. $60 per person. Complete. Pool table and color t.v. 233-2706. 
FOR SALE 

For Sale-'69 Buick Opel Kadett Good Condition. Depenable. Best offer. 277-0352 after 5pm. 
1 Wanted: riders to D.C. area for Easter. Call Camille, 4829. 
Pioneer SX626, Dual 1215 Turntable Shure Cartridge $200. Chip 7854. 
PERSONALS 

Kaczmarek Hell Hath No Fury Like A Woman Scorned... 
Dear Cindy S. in 342: 
1hope you received my previous personal. As my admiration for a very special person continues, I find that 1would really like to meet you soon. Reply for a rendezvous, if you too desire. ' 
Tom (your admirer) 

Dear Flirtatous LiZ· Has your flame for me burned out? Perhaps 1might be able to reignite your tire. 
The "Guess Who" 

Hurry! !sale at Leather Banana ends April 6. Call 259-1060 for into. 
Feeling Depressed? N.D.. SMC hotline 4-4311 open nights. 
Pabbit-
Only 5 days left.... 
hey freshmen$$ it ain't too late$$ to ask that date$$ 
Tim Curtain, Thanks for the lift. Love, Clown 
,Chris and Happy, Guess what clay it is?O Congrat­ulations. H~·.:e a h3PJ.IY lite. 
Clutch 

FRESHMEN FORMAL APRIL 16 9pm to lam. ACC CONCOURSE ROOM. FOR TICKETS AND IN­FORMATION CONTACT YOUR FRESHMAN HALL REPRESENTATIVE. 
D. H. 
Congradulations on your achieve. ments of anyone, you deserve them most. 
Elizabeth 

Kennnnnnnnn, Meet me on St. Joe's idland Tues. at 
4:30. Bring you Smith and Wesson and a bottle of wine. Regrets only!!! 
Kevin and Terry, Congratulations on your first victory Foos luck in today's election. 
Barb 

GEORGE SPOHRER. HERE'S YOUR VERY OWN PER­SONAL (ARE YOU HAPPY NOW) 
Glad you guys won your game, see it you can win some more so maybe you'll get more of a following. You know people always follow a win­ning team.... 
It's not a bear, silly. It's a bull (market) NO. Finance Club Mock Stock Market. 
Good Luck on Wednesday with your 
game.  
Lisa H. ·Thanks night!!  for  a  fantastic  Saturday DaveW.  

alias Wildman 

To Pangborn Gentlemen Love that Pretzei!!Let's do it again. Amy, Sue, Double Lynn, Ann 
To the peanut butter boys: Great party! !And thanks for my little present. Almost makes up for theoool. 
Yours fronrthe South Quad. 
BIGBUNNY.,, 



&WATCHING! 

.... . 

8 the observer Tuesday, Aprils, 1977 
Irish to host Bethel in home opener 
! 
i 
l ~ 
j I 
I• 
by Bob Keen beginning at 1 p.m., weather 
Sports Writer permitting. 
The Notre Dame baseball team Last Sunday afternoon the Irish opens its home spring schedule dropped a pair of close contests to with a doubleheader this afternoon Toledo, 8-7 and 5-4. Improved against Bethel College. The games Irish pitching could not overcome 
will be played on Kline Field defensive lapses in the field over the weekend. "Jim Scholl and Mike Bobinski did a fine job over the weekend,' • stated Irish coach Tom Kelly. "Scholl allowed only seven hits and struck out six, while Bobinski yielded only six hits. We must improve our defense. You do not win many games committing six errors in the field.'' 

Coach Kelly's squad made some excellent late inning comebacks, with the help of some timely hitting in both games, but their inspired efforts fell short. Run-producing doubles by Dan Voellinger and Tim Pollock sparked a three-run fifth inning rally in the opener which brought the trailing Irish within one run, 8-7. However, some excellent relief pitching kept the team from overcoming this deficit. V oellinger and Mike Galloway, who currently leads the team in hits, each had two safeties. 
·The second game of this twinbill found the Irish again falling behind by four runs. Pollock, responding to the challenge, connected for a two-run double and Jim Abbatiello followed with a single to bring Notre Dame within one, but the Irish were again frustrated leaving Abbatiello stranded at second base. 
Notre Dame could manage only four hits, two collected by Dave DeFacci, in their losing effort. Mike Bobinski went the distance for the first time this season, but his record dropped to 0-3. 
"Toledo is a fine offensive baseball team," Kelly stated. ''They took advantage of all our defensive lapses." Nevertheless, Kelly was pleased with the team's overall effort. "The kids didn't give up, they hung in there and each one gave 100 percent." 
Junior Joe Leahy and Senior Bob Hughs have been given the starting nod in the Irish doubleheader this afternoon. This will constitute the ;bird trip to the mound for Leahy, still looking for his first season victory. Hughs, recovering from an injury, will start his first contest of the season for the Irish. Bethel, coming into today's games winless, hopes to enter the win column at the expense of the slumping Irish. 


Gridders return twenty starters 
[AP] -Notre Dame's Fighting winner ofthe 1976 Outland Troph' Irish, returning the nation's top as the nation's outstanding line· lineman and the school's first man. 1 ,000-yard rusher, started spring Doug Becker, Stever Heimkrei· football practice this week with ter and Bob Golic all return to give hopes for another try at a national the Irish a hardhitting line backing championship. trio, while the secondary of Ted 
The Irish of Coach Dan Devine Burgmeier, Jim Browner, Luther lost only two starters from last Bradley and Joe Restic all return year's 9-3 team--quarterback Rick for duty. Slager and end Dan Kelleher. But "I'm anxious to get started·· the Irish return all 11 starters on probably just as much as I was defense, including Ross Br~wner, during my first season as a coach 
...................................................................................................................................................................................................--~..........---............................................................_, 
Ted ~obinson 
National League West 
. Predicting the demise of the defending world champions is a tad which seems to be very popular in this upcoming baseball season. More than one publication has picked the Los Angeles Dodgers to dethrone the Cincinnati Reds as Western Division Champions this year. Well, a famous adage says that to all victors go the spoils. The Reds and New York Yankees ahve both been hit by increased salary demands from their victorious players. The Reds have been successful in inking all but one, Pete Rose, to new contracts. The "dissension" which this unhappiness is supposed to create is also supposed to cost the Reds their division crown. But, another famous adage says that the team with the best talent usually wiris. That should answer most of the questions. CINCINNATI .• Very simply, this is the bei,t collection of talent in baseball. It's basically the same lineup that has won two consecutive World Championships, so there is little reason to fear any drastic change. 
The;Only switch in the Red lineup wil1 be at first base where Dan Driessen, the World Series designated hitter, will play every day in place of the traded Tony Perez. Driessen proved two years ago that he couldn't play third, so he had\to wait for the· Perez era to end. A lifetime .281 hitter, Driessen is trying to ·bounce back from a mediocre hitting year (.247), but the Reds won't be missing much in Perez's absence. 
The rest: of the infield of Morgan, Concepcion and Rose is well-known and quite stable. And one would be hard-pressed to find a better all-around outfield than the trio of Foster, Geronimo, and Griffey. Back them up with the likes of Doug Flynn, baseball's best utility infielder, Bob Bailey, Mike Lum and Ed Armbrister, and the Reds have-the depth to compare with anybody. 
Johnny Bench proved his true worth in the WorldSeries last year. Even if his bat isn't working, his arm makes his presence valuable. And if the bat is clicking, he is one of the game's best. 
Themuch-malignedpitching staff is led by last year's co-Rookie of the Year, Pat Zachry, and Woodie Fryman, acquired from Montreal in the Perez deal. Gary Nolan, Fredie Norman and probably Jack Billingham !complete an average rotation which benefits from their association with Morgan Foster, etc. 
ThP bullpen added exceptional depth with the acquisition of Dale Mu11 ty, whose 81 appearances led the NL last year. Rawley Eastwick, Pedro Borbon, and Manny Sarmiento fill out the deep firemen corps. 
With that much talent and depth, how can you lose? LOS ANGELES •. Many people seem to think that the Dodgers have the guns to knock the Reds off their title seats this year. But, what they will need is super years out of about 4 question-mark players. 
Rick Monday's acquisition gives the Dodgers one of the most underrated centerfielders in the game, and adds much-needed power to their lineup. Dusty Baker hit .242 with 4 homers after averaging 20 homers in his previous 4 years in Atlanta. The Dodgers will also need a rebound year out of Reggie Smith in right field. Smith hit in spurts after his mid-season deal with St. Louis. The Dodger~nfield is r'iolid with Steve Garvey, Dave Lopes, Bill Russell, and Ron Cey anchoring the positions. The only ·improvement could be in the hitting of Lopes, whose average 
slipped to . 241 last year. 

Improvement lat the plate will also be needed out of Steve Yeager. a defensive gem, who hit only .211 last year. If Yeager falters, rookie Kevin Pasley, the pride of Chaminade High School in Mineola, N.Y., will be there to fill in. · 
As always, the Dodger strength is on the mound with 20-game winner Don Sutton leading the crew. Doug Rau, Tommy John, Burt Hooton and Rick Rhod~n complete the best starting rotation in the division. 
The shakiest part of the Dodger squad, other than the outfield, is . in the bulloen. Tom Lasorda _will trv ~nd find help for Charlie Hough 
·Elias Sosa, Mike G.arman and Stan Wall 
' 
he Dodgers get gooa years out of thetr question-mark p1ayers. 
Reas again i-
they could contend for the top. Otherwise, they better look behind them because the Padres are creeping up. SAN DIEGO·· After acquiring Gene Tenace, George Hendrick, and Rollie Fingers, the Padres made a serious commitment to youth by naming rookies Mike Champion and BilJ Almon as their new second-short combination. For a team turning its sights towards the top, it was a big gamble, but in the long run, one which will pay off big dividends. 
Randy Jones' arm surgery has been termed successful and that is a big relief to a thin Padre staff. Brent Strom, Dave Freisleben, and Rick Sawyer are an erratic supporting cast for the Cy Young Award winner. 
Butch Metzger, co-Rookie of the Year for 1976, spearheads the bullpen, with vet Fingers. Dave Tomlin and Jerry Johnson will show up to draw their paychecks. 
Tenace plugs the hole the Padres have had since their inception, catching. Hendrick teams up with Dave Winfield to give the Padres two top-notch outfielders, and much-needed power hitting. Jerry Turner, a good hitter but weak defensively, will be the third outfielder. 
Flanking Champoin and Simon in the infield will be Mike lvie at first and Doug Rader at third. lvie found his niche at first base last year, hitting .291 with 70 RBI's. Rader, a 10-year vet, provides one of the best gloves in the league at the hot corner. 
The Padres lack much quality depth, and that could hurt them in the long run. But, this is a team on the upswing, one with a bright future. HOUSTON ·· Recognize the following names: Joaquin Andujar, Dan Larson, Bo McLaughlin, Gene Pentz, Mark lehtongello, Gil Rondon and Ron Selak? You're among the majority if you don't, but these young pitchers are the key to the youth movement that brought Bill Virdon 80 wins in his first Astro season. 
Any combination ofthese young pitchers will join 20-game winner 
J.R. Richard and vet Joe Neikro in the starting rotation. Ken Forsch, who posted 19 saves last year, heads the bullpen with any number of the others. · 
The Astros1 have some heavy lumber to back the kid pitchers up with. Willie Crawford brings a .304 average from the San Francisco Giants to the Astro outfield along with the perennial "future superstar", Cesar Cedeno (.297) and Jose Cruz (.303). 
Joe Ferguson brings his homerun bat and powerful arm from St. Louis to handle the catching, and Bob Watson has 100 RBI's at first. But the Astros have a hole at second, and are counting too heavily on the kid pitchers. SAN FRANCISCO ·· Two years ago, this team looked as if it might be the team of the future. Now, things are quite different for Giant fans. Only the acquisition of two-time National League batting champion Bill Madlock will save the Giants from dnpping to the cellar. He did it for the Cubs for two years. 
In other fielding positions, there isn't much to talk aobut. 39-year-old Willie McCovey will try and extend his career another year at first base. Larry Herndon is a good young prospect i.n center field, and two other rookies will try and make their mark. 
Gary Alexander hit .319 in Phoenix and will try and take over the re!!ular catching chores with the departure of Dave Rader. Jack Clat k hit .323 at Phoenix and will take over left field due to the exodus of Gary Matthews. . 
On the mound, the Giants have three solid starters in John Montefusco, Ed lfalicki, and Jim Barr. And, in the bullpen, Gary Lavelle and Randy Moffitt are a potent combination. 
That adds up to about ten players worth mentioning. Unfortunately for the Giants, it takes 25 to make a team: ATLANTA ·· Ted Turner is the most dynamic owner in baseball, save Charlie Finley. But, it hasn't helped his team's fortunes on the field very much. 
Turner sent 5 players on their way to Texas for Jeff ~. frondnued on page 7] l 
·~-----~ ---~~~-~-----=---~--=-~-~-------' 
29 years ago;' said Devine, whose two-year, 17-6 record at Notre Dame includes a victory over Penn State in the Gator Bowl to close last season. 
''But if we are going to accom­plish anything of note. we are going to have to come up· with some key performers to replace Slager and Kelleher." 
Top candidates at quarterback are juniors Rusty Lisch and Joe Montana. Montana was to be the 
r backupquarterbacklastyear,buta preseason shoulder separation sidelined him for the entire cam­. paign. The field is wideopen to replace Kelleher, Devine said. The Irish backfield is built around halfback AI Hunter, who totaled a record 1,160 yards and 13 touchdowns a year ago. Midway through the season freshman Va­gas Ferguson also made his pres· ence known, and in the last three games he totaled 205 yards, inclu­ding 107 against Alabama. 
Tracksters head for Arkansas 
Coach Joe Piane and his Irish trackmen will take to the road this ·Thursday when they travel to Jonesboro, Arkansas, for the Arkansas State Invitational. 
"We are really looking forward to this meet because of the quality competition it attracts," admitted Piane, whose tracksters enjoyed a successful weekend at the lllinois Invitational. "There will be some excellent teams represented and we are hopeful that we can main· tain the level of performances that we turned in this past week." 
Capturing firsts for the Irish at lllinois were Perry Stow in the pole vault at 14'4", Kevin Kenny with a time of 4:02.5 in the 1500-meter run; Arnie Gough in the 110-meter high hurdles; Chuck Wills with a clocking of :54.4 in the 400-meter hurdles; and Kenny Lynch who completed the 100-meter dask in 1:10.2. 
''The weather made it difficult for all performers," Piane said, ''and considering the fact that there were wind gusts of over 50 miles we were happy with being able to win these events." 
This trip to Jonesboro will be the third in as many years for Notre Dame. In addition to the Illinois Invitational winners, Piane will be counting heavily on Dennis VanderKraats and Stege Welch in the distances, Tim Kardok and 
· Marshall Matt in the jumps. and Tom Ferenc and Mike Meyer in the weights. 

Schedules ready 
. Schedule pick-ups for Bookstore VI will be Tuesday and Wednesday of this week. Team captains should report to 151 Morrissey after 7:00 
. p.m. April fifth or sixth with their Sl.So entrance fee. Any team which does not send a representa· tive to Bookstore Central by Wed· nesday night at midnight will forfeit its position in the tourney and waiting list teams will be admitted to the tourarnent in their place. 






