'-~ -~---~­

server 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's 
Vol. XI No. 70 
Severe winter cold causes 75 deaths 
homes in the Northeast and Mid· to be long-range solutions. The Pennsylvania, both of which were
by Sam Boyle 

west. result can be no bill at all." declared eligible for federal disas­
Associated Press Writer 

At least 11 states ordered emer­The House Commerce Commit­ter relief. Carter also said Florida, The severe cold blitz that has left 
gency' measures to deal with the tee was also preparing the bill for where the winter citrus crop suffer­at least 75 Americans dead and weather and energy crisis. possible floor action on Tuesday. ed extensive damage from the More than 75 deaths were attri­freeze, could get federal help.
sliced deeply into natural gas 
The natural gas shortage has so

buted to the weather during the January was the coldest month in 
supplies has forced millions of 
impacted industry -there have

brutal storms and frigid temp­Philadelphia in 187 years -as far
Americans off the job or out· of 
been one million layoffs in Ohio

eratures of recent days. back as the National Weather
school. alone -that state unemployment
In Washington, meanwhile, Con­Service was able to research aver­
Thousands of schools. particular­offices stayed open over the week­
gress 'lhJrked on emergency legis­age monthly temperamres. It was
ly in the Northeast, were closed end to process applications.
lation proposed by President Carter the coldest January since 1918 in
yesterday as state officials fought to redistribute natural gas to those The heavy demand for unem­New York City.
to preserve diminishing gas sup­
areas that need it most. ployment compensation due to In Detroit, the temperature
plies. 
Sen. Majority Leader Robert C. weather-related layoffs will put hasn't been above freezing since 
The gas shortage forced the Byrd of West Virginia, whose state new pressure on state unemploy­Christmas Day, when the thermo­layoff of more than 1.5 million is one of those strained by the cold ment compensation funds that are meter hit 35. workers in areas where plants and snap, warned that the bill must already $3.6 billion in debt, the And the cold brought an increas­businesses were ordered to close or move quickly through Congress. government said. ed demand for natural gas. reduce operations so available "I hope senators will restrain their Among the states hardest hit by Federal officials had feared late heating fuel could be used by zest for offering what they consider the chill, were New York and last week that the gas crisis would · 
soon make it necessary to enforce lower temperatures for homes. But the Federal Power Commission said later voluntary conservation measures had lowered demand and there appeared to be enough natural gas to keep the country's homes warm. 
Officials in New Jersey ordered cutbacks in home heating, though. Residents were told to keep their thermostats at 65 or below during the day, 60 at night. New York State suspended laws . requiring heat be set at a temperature above 65 during the day in apartment buildings. 
Student lobbyists hopeful for lowered drinking bill 
by Mark Lambert changed to 19 to keep the limit above the high school level. One of Student lobbyist Jerry Klingen­the main reasons for the trip to · 
berger has returned from Indi­Indianapolis was to ~hange the pro­anapolis where he has been lobby­posed age to 19. Sen. Rodney ing for lowering the drinking age in Piper, democrat from 'Muncie, 
Indiana to 19. favors the 19 age limit for the same The bill is currently in the Senate reasons and is in the process of Public Policy Committee awaiting a amending the age limit in the vote within one and a half weeks. Public Policy Committee. Klingenberger is hopeful that 
On Monday, Klingenberger 

Notre Dame students who are also appeared in Indianapolis, along Indiana residents will support the with assistant lobbyist, senior Buzz bill. 
Reynolds and senior Bob Ryan. More than 1200 students who are Ryan has been obtaining informa­residents of Indiana have already tion from the eight state liquor received letters from Klingen­associations. berger encouraging them to write The Notre Dame student lobby or call their legislators. Students met with professional lobbyists, should look up the number of the including Sen. Pat Carroll, demo­district in which,.. they live and crat from Bloomington. The 
contact their senator or represent­student lobby was given back­ative: Klingenberger said that ground on legislation and sug­writing a letter or calling the gested methods for passage of the by Barney Striegel gan also stated "it's a good time to fessors, since we will no longer toll-free numbers is ~'the best way drinking bill. Sen. Carroll is get bids because the construction have deplorable lab conditions." to get them to react." expected to bring good results
The new·building will be located

The Engineering Department is industry has been in a downturn.'' Klingel).berger. student lobbyist because he is from an all-student awaiting construction of a new No major disruption of classes is immediately south of the old build­for the past two years and former region, representing Indiana Uni­extension to the Cushing Hall of anticipated, but construction might ing, right along Dorr Road. 60% of member of the Notre Dame execu­versity.Engineering. interfere with some labs. There the building will be constructed· tive board for the Indiana Students 
The bill. classified as SB-372,

Bids for the construction costs might also be a slight noise underground. to conserve energy. Association, called a special lobby was first read on Jan. 14. It is nowwill go out this Friday and should problem. Below ground there will be two meeting on Sunday, Jan. 23. · before the Senate Public Policybe back around the first week of The precipitating factor for the floors. 45.000 square feet each, Approximately nine student body .Committee in Indianapolis. TheMarch. The Universitv will then addition was simply .that the Col· housing almost all the labs. There representatives from Indiana col­bill must receive a majority of 6p"ick a contractor and-actual con­lege of Engineering has not receiv· will be three upper floors, 22,000 leges met in Lafayette to discuss senatorial committee votes to pass.
struction should begin within the ed any new permanent facilities square feet each. current legislation with 30 mem­month. since 1942 and consequently over­The first floor will incorporate bers from the Indiana Students If the Senate Public Policy Com­
Fr. Jerome Wilson, C.S.C., the crowding, especially in labs, departmental offices for Chemistry mittee does pass the bill. it will go
has Association (I.S.A.). physical' plant executive adminis­become a problem. Hogan, com­and Civil Engineering, in addition Lobbyists came trom Purdue, to the Indiana Senate. There it trator. said that construction will menting on the safety factor, said to The College Computing Center Wabash. Indiana University, Ball must receive a majority of 26 votes 
and a Student Learning Center. to pass. The bill must then go
take approximately a year and a the labs are unsafe in the present State and other area colleges. The 
When additional funds become before the Indiana House and again 
half. condition. group discussed landlord-tenant 
available, the library will be moved receive a majority of votes, which is
Dr. Joseph Hogan, Dean of Also, there has been an influx of legislation and state grants as well Engineering, added, ''If construc­the engineering intents. In 1972, to the first floor from the second as the lowering of the Indiana 51. 
tion isn't completed due to lack of there were 242 freshmen intents, floor of the old building. An audio­drinking age. The Public Policy Judiciary Com­funds, then any uncompleted work while in 1976 there were 402. This visual center will also be construct­The I.S.A. originally favored 18 mittee must pass the bill before it is will be taken care of later." trend was most noticeable in the ed. as the goal for the new drinking age turned over to Indiana Governor 
The cost of construction will be Chemical Engineering department The second floor will house the because it conformed with all other Otis Bowen for signature. If at any approximately $7,000,000. More which increased in enrollment from Dean's Office, Electrical Engineer­state laws and rights. The Notre time the bill is not passed. it will be accurate figures will be released in 18 in 1972 to 81 in 1976. No further ing department offices and labs, Dame Student Lobby convinced the discarded. March when the bids arrive. increases are expected since ap­along with a faculty lounge. I.S.A. that 19 was a more feasible The bill to lower the drinking age 
Almost five million dollars has proximately 25% of all freshmen The third floor will have the age, as the bill would be more to 19 could go into effect as early as already been collect<·d, largely enroirin engineering. departmental offices of Aerospace­easily passed in Indianapolis. Sept. I. 1977, if all goes well. but through contributions· and pledges Hogan remarked that, "the ad­fl?.echanical Engineering and met­The hill was originally intro­according to Klingenbcrger. "it from companies and alumni. Ho-dition will help in recruiting pro-allurgy and some classrooms. duced with the 18 age but was looks like a hard fight." 


the observer 

,.._.--News Briefs--­
~:::::::::==:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=======-~ Intemati onal 
MOSCOW (AP) -The National Broadcasting Company said Monday it will televise live at noon today EST the signing of a multimillion-dollar agreement with the Soviet Union for rights to broadcast the 1980 Moscow Summer Olympic Games. NBC officials in Moscow refused to discuss the terms of the contract, which some have speculated could reach as high as $100 million, four times as much as ABC paid for the Montreal Games last summer. 
::::::::::::=:::=:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::National 
TAllAHASSEE, Fla. (AP) -Two inmates, impris­oned 55 miles from each other and facing the electric chair, are asking permission to marry. Prison officials quote the couple as saying they want to help their illegitimate child, one of the few reasons recognized by the state as valid for marriages between prisoners. 
...,.___.On Campus Toda~'­
'3:30pm 
4:30pm 
:30 pm 
:30 pm 
7:30 and 
8 pm '9:30 to 
11p-n, 

midnight -computer course, "fortran", room 115, computer 

center. 

-seminar, "physiology and hormonal regulation of adult eclosion in blowflies" by dr. morris seligman, illinois state univ., sponsored by biology dept., galvin aud. 
-colloquium, "dynamics of the inner ear: the evolution of a mathematical model" by dr. alfredo inselberg, ibm science center, sponsored by math dept., room 226, computer center. 
-meeting, charismatic prayer meeting, log cabin chapel. 
-film, "taxi driver", sponsored by cinema '77,. engineering auditorium. 
-basketball, dayton at nd, ace. 
-concert, paul hatem with grateful dead album hour during intermissions, nazz. 
-meeting, organizational meeting for an tostal, Iafortune ballroom, everyone is welcome. 
-album hour, wsnd 640 am, "sudan village" by seals and crofts played without. interruption by john sparks. 
Fordham steel expert to address local businessmen 
Rev. William T. Hogan. S.J., professor of economics at New York's Fordham University and director of the school's industrial economics research institute, will be the principal speaker at a dinner 
meeting of the South Bend chapter of the Purchasing Management Association Feb. 9 at Notre Dame.
A 1948 recipient of a doctoral degree in economics at Fordham, Hogan has specialized in economic 
studies of the iron and steel industry for 25 years. He is the author of several books, including
"Productivity in the Blast Furnace and Open Hearth Segments of the Steel Industry" and a five-volume work, "An Economic History of the 
Iron and Steel Industry in the United States." 
The research institute was or­ganized by Hogan in 1950 to develop studies dealing with the try, with particular emphasis on the problem of <!epreciation charges ana capital investment for heavyindustry. He has been a frequent witness at House and Senate hearings and was a member of the 
Presidential Ta-sk Force on Busi­ness Taxation. He also serves as consultant to the Council of Econo­
mic Advisers and the U.~. Cham­ber of Commerce. 
Hogan has visited-most of the steel-producing facilities of the 
world during the last 10 years. He has presented talks at steel con­
ferences in France, Great Britain,
Switzerland, Prague, Russia, Ven­ezuela, Brazil, South Africa, India, the Philippines and Japan. The 6· p.m. social hour and 
dinner in the Morris Inn is open to the public. Reservations must be 
made before Feb. 4 with Robert Dion, Miles Laboratories, Elkhart. 
New bill sent to Congress; $50 tax rebate proposed 
WASHINGTON AP -President Carter yesterday sent Congress his $31.2-billion economic program that includes a $50 tax rebate for nearly every American. He said the program "only promises what can realistically be done" to speed economic growth. 
"The economic program I have proposed will set the stage for substantial growth in the years ahead,'' Carter said in a statement. He also promised pis administra­tion will "never Jet its guard down" against inflation. 
Carter said the two-year program would help create one million new jobs by the end ofthis year, which would leave the nation's jobless 
rate  at  about  6.8o/o.  The  unem­ 
ployment  rate  in  December  was  
7.8%.  

But the President warned Con­gress against trying to move faster to create jobs, as some lawmakers have said they will try to do. "To force more money, faster, into the system would risk poor administra­
tion," Carter said. 
However, he said the program is 
flexible enough to be adjusted 
upward or downward to meet 
specific needs of the economy in 
the future. 
Chariman Charles L. Schultze of 
the President's Council of Econ­
omic Advisers held open the pos­
sibility that tax rebates for Ameri­
cans could be increased, especially 
if the severe winter worsens and 
Americans spend their rebate for 
extra fueL 
The chief components of the program had been outlined by administration officials in recent days. They include $50 tax rebates for nearly every American this year, with the total rebate cost estimated at $11.4 billion. 
Other features are: -Permanent rax reductions totalling $4 billion each year for taxpayers in low and middle-income brackets, up to an income level of about 
'Charge it, officer' 
CHICAGO (AP) -Speeding the public with this plan," Gulley motorist stopped for a violation said. ''It would give drivers a may soon be able to tell a traffic fourth alternative." 
The Observer is published Monday through F rrday and weekly durrng the summer session, except during 

STOP!!!
the exam and vacat1on perrods The Observer IS published by students of the Umversity of Notre Dame and St Mary's College Subscrrptions 
AT THE senior bar 
may be purchased for $20 per year ($10 per semester} from The ObsPr­ver, Box Q, NotrP Dame, lnd1ana 46556 Second class postage pa1d, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 
TONITE
The Observer 1~ a member of the 
Associated Pres~ All reproduction r.f~tt s are resPrwd 

cop: ''Charge it, officer." Drivers pulled over for moving G Cfl The Illinois Supreme Court has violations currently can post bond ~ RT 16111-71-COLUMBUS 12" given tentative approval to a rule in one of three ways: with their CINCI NNA Tl AREA -MON .fEB 7 :E 
SHERATON MOTOR INN NORTH 
1 
2

change that would allow drivers to Illinois drivers licenses; with an ~ TERRACE HILTON 0 post bond with credit cards. insurartce company or auto club ~ 15 WSIXTH ST -CINCINNATI 
"C 

Under a proposed plan, city and bond card; or with cash at the ::i INDIANAPOLIS AREA-TUES, FEB 8 r -( J> state policemen would carry small nearest police station. ~ 
STOUFFER'S INDIANAPOLIS INN m ..., 2820 N MERIDAN -INDIANAPOLIS :0 

credit card machines in their police Cfl cars to enable motorists to charge (]) ., 
<( SOUTH BEND AREA-WED. FEB 9 SHERATON MOTOR INN
bonds on the spot. 

ERRATUM z a
423 N MICHIGAN ST -SOUTH BEND 
(j) f-

The court could give the plan 0 r
ALSO AT CEDAR POINT m

final approval at a meeting next On Friday, Jan. 28, The Observ-~ SAT. FEB 5, SUN FEB 13 :0 Cflmonth in Chicago, said Judge Roy er ran an advertisement for The ~ Gulley, director of the Administra­Library carry-out specials. Due to <(_..J FOR OTHER AUDITION SITES
AND FURTHER INFORMATION
tive Office of the Illinois Courts. It an error by the ad layout man, we fri coNTACT would go into effect March 1. 

incorrectly ran a Kamkachatka l)j LIVE ENTERTAINMENT DEPT. The plan would depend on the Vodka special for $1.69 per onehalf CEDAR POINT. INC. participation by major credit card gallon instead of $7.89 per half Cfl SANDUSKY. OHIO 44870 
f-419-626-0830
companies, including Master­

gallon. We apologize to Rick Kas-~ (Open only 1o registe•ed college students charge and BankAmericard. ner for the inconvenience it caused g and graduatmg nigh school seniors! ~ "We're trying to accommodate 
him and to all those who rushed ~ ~~ffi\]5 ::jdown with hopes of getting an (3 ~ I D 0 Q ~ unbelievable deal and we chastis" ffi ~
FTC finds 

the person who put-the ad together. o..L J<fl SINGERS-MUSICIANS-TECHNICIANS
Nader faulty 

WASHINGTON* (AP) -Feder­
Cinema[iii


al Trade Commissioner Paul Rand Dixon called consumer advocate Ralph Nader "a son-of-a-bitch a11 ' 
Robert DeNim in 
a dirty Arab'.' at a recent appear­ance before an industry group, 

''TAXI DRIVFR" 
according to sources who attended. Dixon, asked by a reporter 

directed by Martin ~ 
yesterday about the incident, would not deny making the slur and 

ENG AUD ADIVIISSION $1.00 
declared "I don't intend to apolo­gize to Ralph Nader." 

Tues. &Wed. -Feb 1 &2 
Nader countered that "He owes 

Patron Cards Available on Wednesda 
me and his chief, President Carter, ~iliiiiiliiiliiliiliililiiiiiii~~iii~~iii~ji!iillliiliiiiitiillit:i==:~­and many other Americans an 
AN--­
apology. And he :.viii give me one."
"*The Observerl
I, 
Night Editor: Paul Schappler 

T0.-sTA L 
Asst. Night Editor: Bill Rivard Layout Staff: Cathy Kustner, Cindy McKie!, Mark Lambert, 
Marti HoganF t L t T' O'R ·1

ea ures ayou : 1m e1 ey -· --­
s t L B b K Q • t• 1 M t• 
por s ayout: 0 een, 

__r_~_ntza tona ee tng
M · 11 R 1
ar1ne auen, Pau 

s F 1 1977 10 30 
tevenson e· •
T · K. C kl K • pm
yp1sts: 1tty on in, aren • t •
h l f }}
c iames, Stephanie Urillo, a ortune Ba ronm 
Mel Celeste 
V 
Night Controller: Don Roos 
d
Day E itor: Jeanne Powley
d 
LCopy Rea er: Cathy Nolan J _Ad Layout: Pat Russell • 


$17,500 annually for a married couple. -An additional $4 billion for emer­gency public works projects, on top . of $2 billion already authorized. -New spending totalling $4.1 billion to create 415,000 more public service employment jobs over the next two years. -An additional $1.9 billion for 346,000 new job-training and employment positions under the Comprehensive Training and Em­ployment Act, CETA, with special programs for youths, Vietnam-era veterans, Indians and migrant workers. -Another Sl.l billion for an anti-re­cession revenue-sharing fund to support local and state government jobs in high unemployment areas. -Reductions inbusiness taxes total­ling $2.5 billion through either an increase in the investment tax credit or a tax credit equal to 4% of a ftrm's Social Security tax pay­ments for its employees. 
rTALENT ~ 
~ SEARCH '77 i 
1 We'd Like To Discover You! ~ co
Tech Interviews 1:00, Auditions 2:00 
:0 
~ J>
COLUMBUS AREA-SUN. FEB 6 Cfl 

economic problems facing indu_:;-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~:...._~~~~~~~~~~==~:::..1 
Will · CHRIS EVERT Be This Year's SPECIAL GUEST??? 
~;:.£y~ryone is welcome. 
r-------~~.----­
Tuesday, February 1, 1977 
the observer 

Extension granted for completion of Co-ed report 

by Maureen Flynn Campus Editor 
The Committee for the Evalua­tion of Coeducation, appointed last September by University Provost Fr. James "T. Burtchaell, is in the process of composing question­naires to be distributed among faculty members and students. 
Sr. John Miriam Jones, assistant provost and chairperson of the committee, said yesterday that they have extended their original target date for a final report until mid or late March. They had originally planned to complete their work in time to affect admissions quotas for next year. 
"The committee's recommenda­tions, if accepted (by the adminis­tration), will have an affect on 
Notre Dame President Theodore M. Hesburgh gave Pope Paul VI a book as a gift from the University community in a private audience recently in Vatican City. The volume contains the proceedings of a theological conference held at Notre Dame in which the Pope had an interest. The Pontiff, Hesburgh reported, sent his best wishes to the faculty, staff, students and alumni of the University. 
SMC senior interviews increase 
by Paula Carron 

Karen O'Neil, Career Develop­ment Center (CDC) director, re­ported a steady increase in the number of companies interviewing Saint Mary's seniors. Five new companies are recruiting at St. Mary's this semester. 
"This increase is due to a 
number of factors, including St. Mary's participation at profes­-sional conferences and our strong business department," O'Neil stated. O'Neil explained that St. Mary's involvement in associations such as the Midwest College Placement Associations (MCPA) attracts more recruiting companies 
to campus. 
As chairperson for the liberal arts committee of the MCPA, O'Neil emphasized that almost half of the recruiting companies inter­view liberal arts students. "The liberal arts student does have a fighting chance in the job market," O'Neil remarked. "I still would like to increase the number of liberal arts students being inter­viewed," she added. 
Each company interviewing hires at least one student from St. Mary's while nationwide, ten per cent of those interviewed on cam­pus attain and accept jobs from a recruitment program, O'Neil re­
ported. The low percentage is not 
indicative of the full value of the 
program however. O'Neil explain­
ed that those interviewed have a 
much better chance of getting a job 
because they get their "foot in the 
door" and the experience of having 
interviews is invaluable. · 
In the CDC, the students have 
access to a file of 800 companies to 
:which they can make inquiries for
jobs. The CDC's goal is to prepare 
the women for the interviews by 
instilling confidence and having the 
girls practice interviewing tech­
niques. 
The recruitment interviews are 
the final stage of a detailed 
when O'Neil became director of 
Career Development, the program 
has been gradually increasing. She 
explained that she had three goals 
when she st~rted three years ago. 
"I wanted to increase the num-
KofCdance set for Feb. 12 
Tickets for the Knights of Colum­bus third annual Valentine's Day semi-formal dinner dance, Satur­day Feb; 12, are now available at the Knights of Columbus. Tickets will also be sold in the dining halls, starting Wednesday. 
The ticket price of $17.50 per couple includes a full-course dinner with a cash bar at the Holiday Inn in Niles, Michigan followed by dancing. Music will be provided Surface. Bus service from the circle will be available. Ticket supply is limited. · 
trhere IS a difference!!! 

PREPARE FOR: 
~-~-~~IJ 
GMAT • GRE • OCAT 
CPAT • VAT • SAT 
Our broad range of programs provides an umbrella of test­ing know-how that enables us to oller the best preparation avatlable, no matter which course is taken. Over 38 years of expenence and success. Small classes. Voluminous home study matenals. Courses that are constantly up­oated. Permanent centers Opfln days & weekends all year. Complete tape facilities lor review of class lessons and lor use of supplementary materials. Make-ups lor missed les­sons at our centers. 
ASK ABOUT OUR COMPACT COURSES 
2050W. Devon ~~~ 
Chicago, Ill. 60645 N. (312) 764-5151 
EDUCATIONAl CENTER 
Outside NY ~tate Onlv C~LL TOLL FREE 


T(ST PREPARATION
800-221-9840 

<;PECIAL IS T<; <;INCl I" lh 
• 
·Centefs•in Ma1ur lj S:Cities ~~···~····· 
ber of freshmen and sopr.-.~mores using the CDC," she said. O'Neil was pleased to report that half of the girls registered last year were underclassmen. 
Her second and third goals were 
;losely related. O'Neil sought to
mcrease the number of liberal arts .411 
students being interviewed as well as the number of companies willing to interview liberal arts students. O'Neil agreed that almost half of the recruiting companies is a good percentage. 

program at St. Mary's. Since 1974------------­
need resumes in a hurry? 

I 
insly·prints 
the wiz of the printingbiz: 
rag bond 25 -81/2 X 11 $2.55 203 N. Main So Bend 289-697 
•
!C 

admissions a year from now," Jones stated. The number of women accepted is now frozen at approximately 1500, pending ac­tion on the Coeducation Committee report. 
The questionnaires, Jones said, will be designed primarily to find out about student and faculty attitudes towards the coed exper­ience. "These will deal with things we can't find out about in other ways," Jones explained. "It's not like looking up SAT scores.'' 
The assistant provost noted that • improvement is needed. It's not all. an important focus of the student Pollyana."
lllllll••························-llllt. 

survey will be high school exper­ience with coeducation. "This is something we've been trying to find out for five years," she said. 
Faculty members will be asked to "assess the impact of coeducation on Notre Dame," Jones said, particularly male faculty who were here before women were admitted. Women faculty members will also be asked questions concerning their own positions in the Univer­sity community. 
Jones said that the question­naires should be distributed by mid-February and that the commit­tee hopes to have them collected and tabulated by the end of the month. 
The completed report will be submitted to University President Fr. Theodore M. Hesburgh, who will distribute it to "other people who ought to see it," Jones said. "After lengthy discussion, the committee's recommendations, if accepted, will be assigned to those who will implement them." 
Jones declined to comment on any of the particulars of the report at this point, but said that it was "very supportive" of coeducation. "Over all we feel there are many more positive things about it than negative," she stated. "although we all recognize areas where 

• Witness the ''Magic'' of 
Paul Gerni 
Famous Trick-shot Pool Artist Wednesday Feb. 2 
8:30pm 
LaFortune Ballroom Free Admission 
Sponsored by Social Commission. 
_r• ,• 
a 

TONfl'E 
From 9-121/2 From 9-12 
PRICE 

the observer Tuesday, February 1, 1977

Longet sentenced to 30 days in jail 
ASPEN, Colo. AP -Claudine Longet, pleading with a judge to have mercy on her as the mother of three children, was sentenced yes­terday to serve 30 days in jail "at a time of her own choosing" in the killing of her lover. 
District Judge George Lohr, 
by Ms. Longet's plea, expressed compassion for her and her family, but said he felt releas-
Too much snow 
INDIANAPOLIS (AP)-Gov. Otis 
R. Bowen, predicting that it will take three weeks to clear state roads of paralyzing snow drifts, formally requested that President Carter declare Indiana a disaster area yesterday. 
"We have two priorities: emer­gencey aid to persons in immediate peril and the clearing of our road systems,'' the governor said at a 
news conference in his office. 
Bowen told Carter it will take almost $7 million to complete the road-clearing effort, hindered for days by high winds. 
He also identified 44 counties in which ''the situation is especially critical." 
The counties are Adams, Allen, Cass, Clark, Clay, Daviess, Dela­ware, Dearborn, Dubois, Elkhart, Aoyd, Fountain, Franklin, Fulton, Grant, Greene, Harrison, Howard, Jasper, Jay, Jefferson, Knox, Kos­ciusko, LaGrange, Lake, LaPorte, Marion, Marshall, Noble, Perry, Posey, Randolph, Ripley, St. Jo­seph, Starke, Steuben, Switzer­land, Tippecanoe, Vanderburgh, Vigo, Wabash, Warren, Warrick and White.

i 
I Earlier in the day, in a letter to 
1 Carter's energy coordinator, Jack 
I Watson, Bowen linked the state's traffic problem to the increasingly 
serious natural gas shortage. 
Assistance given 
for comp/etion of 
income tax forms 
by Dave Runbach 
Accounting students of Profes­sors Kenneth Milani and James Wittenbach have organized a tax assistance program for anyone who would like assistance in completing his or her federal or state income tax returns for 1976. 

The program will be held in at least seven centers in the South Bend area starting Saturday, Feb. 5 and continuing until the April · 15th deadline. 
Notre Dame students wishing to participate should bring their W-2 forms to the LaFortune Student Center on Mondays and Wednes­days from 2 to 4 p.m. The location in the Student Center has not yet been determined and will be an­nounced at a later date. A certified public accountant (CPA) and sev­eral student representatives of the accounting department will be on hand to lend individual assistance. 
The program will also be held in six off-campus locations in the South Bend area to aid local residents as well as Notre Dame off-campus students. 
These include the Northeast Neighborhood Center, t!OJ Notre Dame Avenue, on Mondays 5 to 8 p.m.; the Clay Neighborhood Cen­
ter, 54143 Burnette Street, on' Thursdays 5 to 8 p.m.; La Salle Neighborhood Center, 2910 West Avenue, on Thursdays 5 to 8 p.m.; the Meadowbrook Center 52792 Hastings St., on Wednesdays 11 
a.m. to 2 p.m.; The Hansel Center .12045 W. Washington St., on Tuesdays and Thursdays 5 to 8 p.m.; Southeast Center 416 Wen­ger St., on Thursdays 5 to 8 p.m.; and a special center for senior citizens at 674 E. Jefferson St. open on Fridays from 5 to 8 p.m. 

ing her with no jail time "might undermine respect for the law." He also put her on two year's probation. 
Charles V. Weedman, the enter­tainer's attorney, said he probably will ask next month for a new trial. He had said before sentencing he would appeal if his client got any jail term at all. 
Ms. Longet's ex-husband and the father of her children, singer Andy Williams, wiped tears from his eyes as he sat through the half­hour hearing. He said afterwards, "I was hoping it wouldn't be this: the 30-day sentence." 
The 36-year-old former showgirl, convicted of criminally negligent manslaughter in the shooting death last March 21 of skier Vldaimir "Spider" Sabich, told reporters she was not bitter. 
"Because of the many cards and 

Indiana a disaster area? 
"I believe that the federal go-He advised Watson that retail vernment should be prepared to hours have been cut and environ-mobilize its equipment and man-mental standards have been eased power resources to help transport "to protect the fuel supply to fuel through all levels of the residential users and essential distribution system ... Indiana is public services." suffering severe economic and Bowen noted that natural gas human hardship as a result of fuel curtailments have effected about shortages compounded by recent 3,100 industries and. forced the blizzard weather conditions," the layoff of about 50,000-60,000 work-letters I've received, the prayers, I them to stay that way." feel very good about everybody," Sabich died of a single bullet she said. "People are very warm wound in the stomach. Ms. Longet and sensitive. I realized that people said the .22-caliber gun that killed are very beautiful." the ski champion went off ac-
She was convicted Jan 14 by cidentally as he was teaching her to jurors who rejected prosecution use it. arguments that she was guilty of The judge, noting he had receiv­reckless manslaughter. ed considerable mail from around 
Ms. Longet, a tiny, dark-haired the country about the case, said he woman in a flowered minidress, was stunned at how many were fought back tears as she stood unaware that Ms. Longet was not before Lohr, pleading to save her charged with intentionally killing children from the stigma of having Sabich. · their mother jailed. He indicated many Americans 
"My children and I are very believe Ms. Longet guilty of mur­close," she said in a near whisper. der. "We love each other very much. And he denounced what he said They respect me and they firmly was the hostile attitude of Aspen believe in my innocence." residents against Ms. Longet. 
She said she believed the three "The defendant will have to live children -Noelle, 13, Christian, 11 with that for a long time," Lohr and Bobby, 7 -would become said. resentful "against a system that But in the interest of preserving would send to jail a mother they respect for the law, he said he was trust and believe in." imposing the sentence and proba­
"They are beautiful. They are tion. The jail time, he said, should happy," Ms. Longet said softly. be served consecutively "at a time "They are very gentle and open. ,of her choosing before Sept. 1, 
_.:;::g_ov_e_r_n_o_r_w_r_o;..:t..:.e_.________..:.e:;.:;r.::.s_._____________w_it_h_a_I_I_m....:..y_h_e_ar_t_,_I_w_o_u_l_d_li_k_e__1_9_7_7_.'_'___________, 

Tuesday, February 1, 1977 
the observer 

The Dating Game 
Editor's note: The following was written as a sociology term paper by Ellen McLaughlin and John Pallacqua, and subsequently edited for publication by The· Observer. 
Dating'"(or to be more precise, the lack of 
dating) is a problem at this university, 
indicatihg the University's failure to edu­
cate the whole person. 
The University requires that a certain ·number of hours must be completed in the 
social sciences, behavioral sciences, philo­
sophy, and theology for one to be eligible 
for graduation. With a limited social life 
however (as is the result of a lack of 
dating), we feel that regardless of the 
number of credits a person successfully 
completes, he is leaving here somewhat 
cheated, somewhat at a disadvantage, than 
if he had attended a different university. 
We maintain that the lack of dating is not fhe fault of the individual, but of the 'Institution of which he is a part. In limiting even in an indirect manner an individual's opportunity to date, we feel that the individual will be less able to realize his potential as a complete person. Because of this, the dating situation should be considered a serious problem which needs to be analyzed. 
We formulated nine hypotheses, which 
try to explore the existence of the dating 
problem here at Notre Dame. To 
substantiate (or disprove) these hypo­
theses, we have constructed a question­
naire containing basic informational and 
attitude questions, and have evenly distri­
buted 100 of them among fellow under­
graduates. The selection was totally 
random, but we feel the sample is 
representative ofthe different class levels. 
No other differentiation was made besides 
the one giving the questionnaire to an even 
number of males and females. 
Our findings are as follows: 

l.lt was found that 82 percent of the 
students surveyed are not seriously in­
volved with someone not attending Notre 
Dame (other than SMC) with tfie under­
standing that they will not date anyone else 
here. Thus the assumption that Notre 
Dame is an "HTH" (hometown honey) 
university is Jalse. 

We find here that the lack of dating at 
Notre Dame cannot be blamed on the 
individual, cannot be traced to the fact that 
a majority of the students here prefer not to 
date because of personal commitments. 
On the contrary, 82 percent of the students 
surveyed are eligible to date, and of this 82 
percent, 64 percent would like to date more 
than they do now. This leads us to believe 
that the assumption that many eligible 
dating partners have been eliminated from 
the dating pool because of personal 
commitments is highly unfounded. 
2. In our survey, it was found that a statistically insignificant 3 percent of the students would be hesitant to date some­one who lives an appreciable distance from their hometowns. The breakdown is just about evenly split between the males and females on this question, more so than any of the other questions presented in the survey. Regardless of GPA, study habits, frequency of dating, or extracurricular activities, 60 percent of the males and 62 percent of the females would definitely not be hesitant to date someone who lives an appreciable distance from their home­towns, while 36 percent of the males and females responded that living distances had no bearing on who they were going to go out with. 
Many expressed the opinion that re­lationships around the campus were much too serious to get involved with, and therefore they preferred to stay out of the dating game. If this were true, however, some indication would have shown up on this question. If people on the whole wanted a more serious relationship than mere dating would incorporate, then surely they would want to live within at least striking distance of their "loved . one" during the times they are not together at school. . The results, however, destroy that assumption soundly, and bring to the surface another myth so prevalent here under the Dome. People want to go out, but they don't want to go out and get married. The proof is a rather convincing 97 percent who maintain that living distance means nothing. 
3. The results of the survey show that 58 percent of the students surveyed feel that a more equitable male-female ratio would initiate an increase in their dating. (It is interesting to note that of this total, 54 percent of the females also feel this way.) 
Normally, one would tend to think that females would want to maintain the present inequitable ratio for fear that more competition would cause them to date less. However, the findings indicate that fe­males perceive a more equitable ratio would help to destroy a myth which pervades the Notre Dame campus: that due' to the present high ratio of males to females, a girl has a choice of five or six dates per weekend. This belief causes many males to refrain from asking a female out on a date. Thus, we believe that many females feel that if the ratio were more equitable, the males would be less con­cerned about being refused and would ask females out more. 
The male-female ratio can also be linked to the number of sufficient opportunities to meet potential dating partners, according to 78 percent of the males and 62 percent of the females. A more equitable ratio would increase these opportunities by placing more females in the male's -classes (86 percent of the males have an average number of0-10 females in their classes), at parties, and other activities in which there is social interaction. 
4. Our data conclusively proved that although academics are important in the student's life, they are not the means and ends. Only, 13 percent of the respondents would definitely not go out on a date the night before a scheduled exam, and only 11 percent would definitely not go out on a date which had been planned when a test 

at Notre Dame 
although in an indirect manner, limits an individual's opportunity to date. To be sure, the seclusion of the campus from the outside community does prevent undesirables from roaming the grounds, and undeniably provides an excellent studying atmosphere for the student. However, it also excludes the inhabitants from any interaction with "the outside" unless transportation is available. Accord­ing to the survey, cars are available to 30 percent of-the people interviewed. 
The unavailability of transportation and its effect on dating, taken alone, cannot really be a major source of the dating problem. But this fact, in light of the finding that 79 percent of the students surveyed felt that the campus itself doesn't provide enough places to go on a date, can lead one to the conclusion that the seclusion of the campus coupled with the unavailability of transportation is a serious deterrent to the "education" of the whole person. 
7. From the attitude questions in our survey, we found that the attitudes of males and females on the campus do not differ greatly. The females view them­selves very nearly as the males see them. Twenty-two percent of the males and 18 percent of the females find the majority of the Notre Dame women prudish. Fifty-six percent of the males and SO percent of the females find a minority of the Notre Dame women prudish. Twenty-two percent of 
*Observer 

Features 
had been subsequently scheduled for the day after. As far as going out the night before an exam is concerned, 86 percent responded that it depended on the circum­stances. 
This is where the interesting 1>art of the question comes into play. Of the ·86 percent, 78 percent mentioned that the circumstances to be weighed included the type of date, who the date was with, etc. In other words, the type and importance of the test were only considered in 22 percent of the instances. However, the 74 percent who stated that their going out depended on the circumstances in this case, 84 percent said that it depended most on their date and if their date would be under­standing concerning a postponement. If the date had been planned therefore, or if the date was to fall on the day before an exam was to be given, a majority of the people would go out. 
We further tested this hypothesis by breaking the respondents into grade point averages. Although people with 3.5 averages or above would be more hesitant about the non-test circumstances than the group as a whole, the breakdown in grade point averages caused no significant shift in attitude. 
5. Though career and graduate school goals are heavily emphasized at NO, 82 percent of those students surveyed said that their future plans have no effect upon their dating. Only 14 percent said that their future plans cause a decrease in their dating. Here, we are not able to blame society or the institution for a lack of dating on the Notre Dame campus. 
Extraneous data that might be found interesting: 39 percent plan to enter the job market; 32 percent plan to go to graduate school; 23 percent have no definite plans; and 6 percent have "other" plans. 
6. For the 64 percent of the males who do not have access to a car, a full 81 percent of them admitted that not having a car does limit their dating. The data for the females, however, is reversed. Of the 76 percent of the females who do not have access to a car, 74 percent maintain that the males and n percent of the females do not find Notre Dame women prudish at all. Notre Dame men and women also agree that women are more selective in choosing dating partners than Notre Dame men--70 percent of the males and 66 percent of the females. 
the  inconvenience does  not  affect  their  
dating.  
Here  again  we  can  see  where  the  


Similarly, the Notre Dame males very nearly view themselves as the Notre Dame women see them. Sixteen percent of the males and 14 percent of the females feel that a majority of Notre Dame men date a girl mainly for sexual reasons. Fifty.-eight percent and 52 percent of males and females respectively feel that a minority of Notre Dame men date a girl for sexual reasons. Twenty-six percent of the males and 34 percent of the females don't believe that Notre Dame men date a girl for sexual reasons. 
It is interesting to note that both Notre Dame males and females are "liberated" in the fact that 88 percent of the males and 92 percent of the females feel that it is all right for a woman to ask a man out on a date, regardless of the circumstances. 



-"~~~~-­
-
8. Of those who took part in the survey, it was found that 34 percent of the respondents attended an all-boys or all­girls high school. By comparing the students that attended all-girls or all-boys high schools with those students w~.o attended coed high school, we were abl~ to come to some very interesting conclusions. While only·15 percent of the students who attended a non-coed high scho~: date more at Notre Dame than they did in high school. 32 percent of those who attended coed high schools date more here than in high school. 
Fifty-nine percent of the non-coed high school students date one a month or less, but only 35 percent of those who attended coed high schools date once a month or less. However, 73 percent of those who went to non-coed high schools do desire to date more often than they do now. 
These results lead us to believe that the students who attended non-coed high schools are less able to deal with the increased interactions with the opposite sex found at a coed university. Due to the very obvious fact that there are less opportunities in a non-coed high school for members of the opposite sex to interact with each other, we feel that this has 
'caused these students to date less here at Notre Dame: Furthermore, students who have attended coed high schols have had a great deal more exposure to the opposite sex and to dating than those students who have attended non-coed high schools. We feel this lack of exposure has oftentimes caused these students to be reticent to date due to their inexperience in relating with members of the opposite sex. 
9. Of all respondents, 79 percent feel the Notre Dame campus does not provide enough places to go on a date and 70 percent feel there are insufficient oppor­tunities to meet potential dating partners here on campus. 
We feel these inadequacies are a result of the structure of the institution (Notre Dame) and that the institution is also obligated to take some course of action in order to change these inadequacies. Until four years ago, Notre Dame was an all-male institution. Although St. Mary's was in existence, the Notre Dame admin­istrators were never concerned about the social atmosphere on campus. 


We feel it is time the administration realized that one's social life is an integral part of one's education. However, because it is, we feel the administration must try to provide more places to go on dates, more places to go after dates, and more places to meet potential dating partners, so that the average student's social life would improve. 
We of course realize that some of the present conditions cannot be altered. The location of the campus and unavailability of transportation are things which cannot be changed but which must be coped with. The inequitable male-female ratio should be made equal as soon as facilities can be provided for an increase in the female population. 
The real changes, the areas under attack, should be the insufficient places to go on a date here on campus, and the insufficient opportunities to meet potential dating partners. 
Because of the positive response con­cerning the "girl ask guy" question, dating would be enhanced by more dances like the recent Sadie Hawkins dance, in which the females asked the males out on the date. More places which are free to the student body would of course ease the sting of many students' strained expenses, and a place to go after the 12 or 2 o'clock parietals could serve as an ideal meeting place for people who don't disintegrate at those times. 
From our survey, other possible sug­gestions included a pizza parlour in LaFortune, the installation of big TV screens for audience participation, and the construction of a bowling alley here on campus. 
Computer match-up dating has also been suggested, as well as an alternative to the seedy bars around the campus. Many
thought a pub-type faciity would be excellent here on campus, as it is successful at many other universities. (Hewever, the obstacle in the path is the 21 drinking age in Indiana.) With these suggestions, we feel that people would be more inclined to do things which don't necessitate going off-campus. 
The individual student cannot be blamed for the dating problem here. As a matter of fact, he must be commended for breaking through the various barriers which Notre Dame has purposely or inadvertently constructed. A long hard look must be given to the dating problem. for if it continues to go unresolved, many more people will graduate from Notre Dame without a "total" education. 

I 6 the observer Tuesday, February 1, 1977 I 
I 
I I Textbook industry enjoys steady profit increase 
b: Melanie Lasky College Press Service 
When students begin studying for their first economics exam, chances are they will overlook one very rich lesson in basic supply and demand theory. That textbook, for which the student has probably supplied between $13 to $1S, is happily and steadily filling the publisher's demand. 
The textbook industry is a finan­cial oasis in the publishing busi­ness as new markets open up in adult education, women's studies and text which one leading publish­er says are down-shifted for the increasing number of junior colleges. community colleges and night school courses. There is also a "return to basics in education philosophy in 1976," reports Jim Bradford at Scott, Foresman and Co. publishers. 
This trend marks a change from the past five years. "In 1971, we were still in Vietnam. Today, students are more interested in what this course will do for them in terms of coping with the world. There is a focus on the consumer side of economics," Bradford said. 
Textbooks are being geared more towards practical education. Today a student can open a textbook and Jearn how to borrow money for a new car, finance a house, or even balance a check­book, instead of confronting one 
Wiretapped tapes from King case given to Archives 
WASHINGTON (AP) -A federal judge yesterday ordered the FBI to turn over all tapes and transcripts gathered in the wiretapping of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. to the National Archives and directed that they be kept there under seal for SO years. 
A suit for· damages had been brought by Bernard Lee, former assistant to the slain civil rights leader, and by the Southern Christian Leadership Conference, which King headed until his death in 1968. 

They charged that the FBI tape-recorded King's conversa­tions in a room at Washington's Willard Hotel between 1963 and 1968. Both Lee and the SCLC asked for monetary damages and that records of the overheard conversations be destroyed or ' impounded. But U.S. District Judge John 
I' Lewis Smith Jr. said the damage claims were barred by the three­
year statute of limitations and , dismissed that part of the com­plaint. 
I'. 
' 
' 
He ordered that within 90 days ,f the FBI should gather together "all known copies of the recorded tapesf and transcripts thereof and deliver under seal to the court an inven­tory.'' The tapes and documents
~ 
themselves are to be turned over to the National Archives and Record Service. 

I 
t The judge ordered that the archivists of the United States "shall take such actions as are 
I necessary to the preservation of said tapes and documents but shall 
I' not disclose the tapes or docu­
I ments, or their contents," except 
I by an order from a court. 
I LEE had charged that the FBI 
I tape-recorded conversations in the 
I 
Willard Hotel room in 1963 and then sent a copy of the tape to Mrs. King the following year. 
The SCLC complained that in the 1963-1968 period the FBI eaves­dropped on the conversations ofthe organization's employees. Both Lee and the SCLC said that recordings have been given to ne\1111 media and others outside the FBI. 
The Select Senate Committee on lntelliger ce reported that from late 1%3 until King's death in 1968 the FBI put the civil rights leader under extensive surveillance as part of a campaign to discredit him. 

hundred years of historical data. In fact, the all-time best-seller on the college textbook charts is a volume called Accounting Principles by C. Rollin Niswonger and Phillip C. Fess which has been on the list for 2444 weeks and is in its eleventh edition. And for anyone who thought that textbooks existed only for that rare student who is adept a memorizing dates and figures, Prentice-Hall publishers put out a text called Life Insurance that has been selling steadily since 1912. The new edition is priced at $IS.9S and is expected to sell 2S,OOO copies in 1976. 
But the words "new edition" are enough to bring tears to the eyes of a student taking introductory courses. like economics or political science. These courses often 
require texts which are revised 
regularly and that means that a student cannot buy the book used and possibly save as much as fifty percent. 
For the publisher though, the· used book business is a pain in the profits. In fact, one of the main re.asons for revisions, according to a leading colege textbook publish­er, is to cut out the used book market. Apparently there is no money for publishers in used books. · 
Barnes and Noble, which oper­ates used book franchises, buys 
Chris Walsh, 
Engineering 
"It's boring to read the way most people are taught. This way. you look at a page of print-you see the whole page. It's great'" 

It'll make homework a lot easier this year. In fact, you can cut your study time almost in half with the copyrighted techniques you learn in one free lesson. We'll give you the incredible secrets to easy speed reading, better concentration and greater comprehension. Taught in more than 300 cities throughout the U.S. It's easy. It's fun. It works. 
Increase your reading speed as much as 100%! 
South Bend
TODAY  
THRU THURSDAY  LAST 3 DAYS 1114  Notre Dame Campus Center for Continuing Education  

~EVELYN WOOD READING DYNAMICS 
books back at 40 percent of the original cost and resells them at 60 percent. The author of. the book 
being resold receives  no royalties  
as songwriters do.  .  
The  publisher  of  the  college  

textbook must also deal with an interesting form of rip-off. that of the free sample. Periodically, publishers will distribute thou­sands of complimentary books to professors for possible sales or reviews. However, these books are often sold to the used book dealer. 
It cost a publisher between $3 and $S to give away a $12 text, for example, and often that text ends up on the eyecatching table marked 60-70 cents. 
Scott, Foresman and Co. recently gaveaway nearly 10,000 copies of a new biolo~y text, but it turned out 

Cinema 77 Patron Cards on Sale TODAY in the tudent Union Ticket Offi $5.00 
WhileiR sill free. 
Jeni Malara, 
Student 
"I had C's in high school. After Evelyn Wood Reading Dynamics, ! was able to maintain an A average:' 
John Futch, Jim Creighton, Law Student Student "With 60 briefs a week. "lfs easy. Once you the average student takes know how to do it. it's all week to prepare for super easy!" class. In an evening. I'm finished:· 
to be a fruitless endeavor. A source at the publishing company reported that these complimentary editions would probably be sold by the professors for their won profit and cited one intailce in which sample books were sold to finance parties. Nevertheless, publishing com­panies are still priming the text­book market by giving an average advance on a college textbook of 
$SOOO and royalty payments are being doled out ,a rate of IS percent. There is one encouraging move­ment by publishers to make text­books more responsive to class­room audiences. They are encour­
aging a collaboration between the professionally recognized author and the professor at the small 
Richard St. Laurent, 
Teacher 
"I was skeptical. but now I'm reading around 2300 words a minute. Puts you that much ahead of everyone else:· community college who is more familiar with his of her classroom audience than the professional, but whose writing ability often keeps that teacher out of the textbook field. 
While it is not certain who is getting the largest slice of the textbook dollar, there seems to be no substantial decline in the 
amount of college textbook publish­ing...pcrish the thought. 
11·__________.__""'
a1_ 
fle,_ 
w'nJ 1
t 1ammer 
CREATIVE HAIR DESIGN 
FOR THE SEXES 
RElAXING ATMOSPHERE 
FREE HAm ANALYSIS RK ltETAU... CENTER 
1637 LWW 
So. Bend 
232-6622 
. Appt. only. 

• • • • • • <. ' I •• '.l I ' ' .•\ ' \ • '~ ,•,.. .• .' ,, .,'1 .., .) .l ''~..\.I ~ ·' '..1 .a .I .. -•' . 



------------------------·-----------------~--------------------------------------------­

Space Shuttle's first voyage-at 5 mph 
PALMDALE, Calif. (AP) Towed slowly on 90 groaning wheels, the Space Shuttle orbiter was moved from its hangar along desert roads yesterday to a dry lake test area. 
Heading toward the test facility 36 miles away where it will undergo a year of flight trials, the huge white and black craft thrilled townspeople who lined the route. 
The reusable, airplane-like orbiter moved out of the Rockwell International facility here at day­break and took to the road in a convoy of about 20 vehicles. 
"It's so beautiful it almost makes me cry," said Sharon Hirsh, who, with her 3-year-old son, gazed up at the craft rolling by at a stately 5 miles an hour. 
The orbiter--mounted on a trans­porter with a total of 90 wheels-­looked like a large airliner. With ~ square and bulky fuselage that will carry pilots, scientists and cargo such as satellites· and space 
Springsteen bus trip proposed 
Student Union is considering a bus trip to the Chicago Bruce Springsteen concert· Wednesday, February 23 at the Auditorium. Interested students should stop by the Student Union office for information concerning a package deal. 
Freddie (Chico) Prinze buried after suicide 
LOS ANGELES (AP) -Family and friends of Freddie Prinze said farewell yesterday to the young television star. who took his own 
life.  His co-star,  Jack  Albertson  
and  best  friend,  Tony  Orlando,  
read eulogies.  

The small funeral service for the 22-year-old star of "Chico and the Man" was held at the Old North Church at Forest Lawn in the Hollywood Hills. 
The pallbearers included song­writer Paul Williams and Prinze's business manager, Marvin Snyder, who stood by stunned as the despondent actor pulled a .32­caliber automatic from a sofa in his apartment and shot himself in the head early Friday. 
He had just hung up the tele­phone after talking to his estranged wife, Kathy, mother of his tO­month-old son, Freddie Jr. 
Prinze died 33 hours later at the UCLA Medical Center where he 
Navy ROTC awards given 
by Kevin Wltaslck 

Notre Dame Navy ROTC held its Midshipmen Battalion Change of Command and Awards Ceremony Wednesday in Stepan Center. Midshipman 2nd class Terrence G. Heidkamp relieve Midshipman 1st class John :f. Bader as midshipmen battalion commander. In addition, forty-four awards were given for academic achievement and flight training. 
Major David P. Garner, USMC, who is the Marine officer-Instructor in charge of the NROTC unit at 
N.D. had this to say: "Today we are presenting aca­demic achievement award stars to 42 out of appf<>ximately 200 mid­shipmen. To qualify for this award a midshipman must carry a GPA for the semester of 3.25 or better. He or she must also have a naval aptitude grade of 3.0 out of a possible 4. This grade is based on the overall class standing. Finally they had to pass this semester's physical fitness and swimming tests." 
In addition, 2 midshipmen, 2nd class Ronald Runstedt and 2nd class David Simmens are receiving solo flight certificates. To qualify for this they both had to complete a light insturction program which signifies that after a scheduled period of dual instruction they have soloed in an aircraft. 
had undergone surgergy and been under intensive care with life-sus­taining equipment. Prinze's par­ents, Orlando, a television person­ality himself and others maintained a vigil by his bedside. The hospital said it was flooded with telephone calls from fans. 
Prinze was said to be despondent over the breakup of his marriage, his efforts to free himself from a contract with a mana.ger who had signed hifu as a teen-ager and an impending trial on charges of driving under the influence of drugs. 
Although he radiated charm on the stage, he was never really comfortable in the real world, said James Komack, creator and pro­ducer of the "Chico" series. 
''All that charm, all that love, all that marvelous talent and all the niceness," said Komack. "He couldn't do that offstage. Offstage the world was still uncomfortable stations, the craft and its trans­
porter weighed 110 tons. 
Though its stubby delta wings span only 78 feet, its vertical fin rises nearly 60 feet in the air. It took several months to clear the route of obstacles. Telephone poles were moved back and traffic signals were temporarily toppled for the move through the outskirts of two desert towns. 
Nevertheless, a county engineer, fearing at the last moment that a traffice sign might catch the wings, grabbed a chain saw and cut it down with the orbiter only a block away. 
The move, reportedly costing $3.5 million, was expected to be completed with the arrival at the Edwards Air Force Base test center. There, beginning Feb. 18, the orbiter will be mounted atop a . jumbo jet airliner for initi~I tests piggyback style. Later, it will be released at 30,000 feet' and guided by a two-man crew to gliding landings on the dry lake runway. 
The orbiter bore its name, Enter­prise, after the "Star Trek" tele­vision series starship, a painted American flag and a "United States" designation. 
The shuttle's apppearance was doubly impressive for many resi­dents because this desert com­munity's principal industry is aero­space? and the sustained program offered a lift to a sagging business. 
Capt. R.W. Pheiffer, USN, com­
manding officer of the NROTC unit presented the Honor Company Streamer to D Company. This competition consisted of the past semester's drill competition, per­formance on the semester physical fitness ,test, intra-company flag football, and involvement in unit activities. D Company is com­. manded by 1st class midshipman 
Brian M. Kirk. 
Father Burtchaell presented the 
academic achievement stars in 
addition to being guest speaker at 
the close of the program. In his 
remarks, Burtchaell stressed the 
importance of peace in today's 
world, hoping that "peace is 
described as much more than just 
the absence of warfare." He sees 
the lack of peace as being "the real 
blemish on the tranquility of the 
world." 
Burtchaell noted the long stand­
ing N.D.-Navy history of collaQora­
tion in education and stated that 
great importance should be placed 
on the training that these young 
men receive in the armed forces. 
Burtchaell finished his remarks 
saying: 
· · 1 am always proud of this univer­
sity. . . you are more brilliant than 
your predecessors in more ways 
than I care to enumerate ... I know 
you will continue to be a source of 
pride to the university and to the 
United States." 
Tuesday, February 1, 1977 the observer 
7 

While ND artists exhibit their work inside the Fieldhouse, Mother Nature adds her own touch ·to its exterior. [Photo by Kevin Walsh] 
Funeral services held for Schuster 
last Tuesday evening following aby Jean Powley brief illness. A 1915 graduate ofStaff Reporter 
Notre Dame, he had previously served as the resident of HunterFuneral services were held Fri­College in New York City and asday at Sacred Heart Church for the editor of Commonweal mag­Ge01 geN. Schuster, former assist­azine, a fledgling Catholic journal. 
ant to University President Fr. 

He was also director of the UnitedTheodore Hesburgh and director of Nations Economic and Socialthe Center for the Study of Man in Council (UNESCO) prior to becom­Contemporary Society from 1961 to ing an assistant to Hesburgh.
1971. 

Hesburgh delivered the eulogySchuster was 82 when he died 
for him." One thing Komack and Me 
The future of the popular NBC Mahon may discuss is whether the co!_lledy series was uncertain. network will air the show this Komack was schedult:!d to meet Friday. Nine episodes have been 
today to discuss the show with John shown so far this season and five McMahon, NBC's West Coast pro­have already been taped and are gramming vice president. ready to air. F.our shows had been 
scheduled for taping.
"I don't know what we will talk about," said McMahon. "It's Komack said he did not want to premature to say anything more.'' talk about it until after the funeral. 
No substanive discussions can be "Then Jack Albertson and I ought held until Robert Howard, presi­to sit down and talk about our dent of NBC-TV, returns from lives," he said. "But right now, 
Moscow, where he negotiated for there's no way in the world to even the 1980 Olympic games. think about it." 
Classified Ads 
NOTICES 
NFORMAL GATHERING OF SfUDENTS AND PROFESSORS OF lHE SOCIOLOGY DEPT. 7:30 pm, Feb. 4, INTERNATIONAL STU+ lENTS LOUNGE, LAFORTUNE. 
I'IORRISSEY LOAN FUND. $20-150 1day wait. 1 percent interest. Due h 30 days. LaFortune Basement. MF. 11:15-12:15. 
tlccur9te, fast typing. Mrs. Donoho 232-07 46. Hours 8am-8pm. 
U;ed Books. Book Barn. 1 Mile N>rth of Notre Dame. 272-5520. 
O'eyhound bus to Chicago. Leaves /Vain Circle every Friday at 5 :45 pm. Call Tom at 8338 for reservations 
a1d further info. 
Rlpers professionally typed. Tele. P,one evenings 272.8308. 
'tle Neon Wilde Band: Now a~ailable for parties, concerts, for. 111lls, etc. Call 7996 9-5 or 277-3448 ifter 5. 
'Mil teach you flute in your spare 1me. Call Beth 8112. 
FOR RENT 
Completely furnished houses rang. ing from two to seven bedrooms available for summer or next sep. 
tember.  Call  234-9364.  Mrs.  
Humburger.  
Two  bedroom  house  to  rent.  

Summer and or school year. 1012 Eddy Street. $120 mo. plus utilities. Call Oddies Harris at 232-8563. 
------:::---------­
2 rooms. $40 mo. 233-1329. 
LOST AND FOUND 
Found. Laundry card number 60801 in front of South dining Hall. Call Patty 7995. 
Will whoever ACCIDENTLY picked up a bad (with my overalls, gloves, etc.) that was in the closet at the party on Cedar St. please return to 304 Lyons. Chris 7933. 
Lost left brown ski glove Sat. night at Library or Nickies, Call George
3365. . ­Lost a Cross pen and an assignment book. Call Tom 7843. Thanks! 

Lost: My new Christmas present from Uncle Herbie . a red stocking hat · possibly on shuttle bus. Call Tom at 288-9916. 
Lost: Large brown necklace with sunburst and palm tree near CC E or 
S.H. Church. Sr. Elaine. 1829 or 7856. 
Found: a watch in ACC last week. 
Call Pete 232-7670. 
Found: a pair of glasses Fri. night. 
Lee 1670. 
WANTED 
Wanted: Future business partner. Needed: 4 GA tix to San. Fran. Give me a buzz at 1089, Dave. 
NEEDED: 3 South Carolina tickets. 
Call 6931 and ask tor Dan. 
Need ride to Lexington, K y or Louisville on Feb. 4. 1473. 
Urgently need 6-8 S. Carolina GA tix. Call John 1188. 
Babysitter tor 2 year old boy either Monday, Wednesday or Friday morning. 9am-1 pm. Near Univer­sity. Call ,232-9541. 
FOR SALE 
For Sale: University regulation size refrigerator. Call 1693 between 7.12 
· evening. 
AUDIO OUTLET: top name stereo equipment Wholesale. Call 283· 1181. 
AUDIO COMPONENTS WHOLE+ SALE!! Top name equipment. Lowest prices ANYWHERE. 2.83. 1056. 
Real Estate: For sale 38 acres, Three Rivers, Michigan. 150 rods of frontage. 616-968-3212 after 6pm. 
ADIDAS: Sale (in stock) t-shirts $2-5._ Golf shirts $8-10. Catalog orders, too (2 days). Chris 7933. 
in which he said, in part, "God only 
knows  how  many  crises  I  and  
others  brought  to  him,  as  to  a  
Father  Confessor,  who  listened  

sympathetically and always gave wise counsel. Like a good garden­er, he brought out the best in us, all the beauty and goodness that we did not know we had until he discovered and encouraged it in 
us.'' 
"While he was a quintessential layman in a rather clerical church, I always saw him as a priest, a mediator who stood between ig­norance and learning, badness and goodness, promise and fulfillment, always bridging the gap, always leading upward," Hesburgh com­mented. 
He went on to emphasize that "when the history of American Catholicism's coming of age in our times is written, George Schuster 
will emerge as a giant actor on the scene. How fortunate we were thai he first came so long ago to this place that he learned to love, that he returned for new discoveries and new loves after World War I and that in the ripeness of age, wis~m and grace, he came a third 
__..time to ennch us all." 
PERSONALS 
HEY MARK LUCAS! 
Sorry 1 missed the chance to embarrass you on your last birthday at Notre Dame. Now I'H have to do 
it when you Happy birthdayMarti  LEAST , cutie!  expect it!  
~  
Number 60801  .  Are  your clothes  

walking themselves to the closet? I found your laundry card in front of the South Dining Hall. Call Patty 7995. 
SINGLE, ·Try Matchmake tor a new 
way of meeting other singles.  Write  
P.O.  Box  214,  Mishawaka,  Ind.  
Enclose a stamped envelope.  

Lacrosse . Anyone interested come to practice 8pm ACC Field house. Wed., Feb. 2. wear Sweats. 
Feeling depressed? ND-SMC Hot. line 4-4311 open nights. 
To the girl who goes out with "Caves" . 1 hear you're a tremendous kisser. If you ever come up tor air, let me know. 
Monarch 
Deb is a girl of 22, Who's constantly playing her kazoo, When you see her tonight, She' II be as high as a kite, But for Debina, that's nothinq new. 
Debbie, Happy 22nd birthday! L. 'I 
for graduation for that kiss. Love, Me 
DETROIT CLUB PARTY Fri, Feb. 4. 9 pm. See signs in halls for map . Guests welcome. 
Deb ina.. You make us feel like dancinCJ! the California KIDS. · 
Deb· Are you ready for a dirty mother? 
Congrj;jtu lations Pe<:J on 100 cig-less days. Take care. AI 
Hey toastie (thai means you with the sexyvclce). We must get tooether for a beer. 
Steve 


r--------------------­
the observer Tuesday, February 1, 1977
8 

------------~~-----------­
Recruiting produces winners 
Kathleen Cullen of Saint Mary's grabs an •mportant rebound in losing cause. [Photo by Kevin Walsh] 
by Monte Towle Sports Writer 
The following sports feature is the first of a four part series concerning college recruiting of high school athletes. · Today's segment deals with the University of Vermont basketball program. The final three segments will follow on consecutive days. 
The recruiting of high school athletes is an aspect of college coaching involving little luck or glamour. Such is the lament of a basketball coach at an Eastern university; a school representative of other institutions that constantly strive to maintain athletic respec­tability in light of their respective academic programs. 
When Peter Salzberg arrived on the University of Vermont campus in Burlington during the autumn of 1972, he found a basketball pro­gram that had been pretty well obscured thanks to a disinterested public that had been swallowed up by the exploits of Vermont's power­ful and glamorous hockey team. 
On further investigation, Salz­


SMC nipped in ND rematch, 63-59 
by Ray O'Brien Sports Writer 
In a rematch of one ofthe fiercest and lately most controversial rival­ries in local women's college basketball, the Irish of Notre Dame edged Saint Mary's College 63-S9 last night in the ACC. 
Combining the outside shots of freshman standout Nancy Nowalk and the inside baskets from Kath­leen Cullen, St. Mary's broke to a 

· quick 16-8 lead. With Cullen clear­ing the boards SMC controlled the tempo of the game. 
After six minutes during which neither team scored, the pendulum swung the other way as Notre Dame came back with ten unans­wered points taking the lead on a 16 footer by co-captain Carol Lally. Despite the loss of the Irish's leading rebounder Bonita Brad­shaw, on the bench with three 

I 
I 
I 
i 
I 
I· 
w-··· 

fouls, the home team managed to Both teams exchanged baskets at keep the momentum increasing the outset of the second half before 
their lead to 2S-18. This 17-2 scoring spurt was sparked by freshman Sue Kunkel who came off the bench to fire in six points. Anotherfreshman, Pat Meyer, also added three buckets during the Irish hot streak. 
Just as SMC seemed finished for the night they came back with 12 straight points as Cullen hit from all over the court. The SMC defense totally' shut down the Irish attack as the half ended with St. Mary's claiming a five point lead. 
Both teams looked much im­proved since their prior meeting when Notre Dame stumbled to a SS-3S decision. Aggressive play characterized the first half as both teams had their share of fouls and turnovers. The Irish outshot SMC with 34o/o to the visitors 30o/o from the floor. 
berg found a team that had won only 22 games while losing SO in the three seasons previous to this arrival. And of those 22 wins, only four had come within Yankee Conference play. In fact, the Catamounts had been winless in league play in the year prior to Salzberg's arrival. Resurrection of Vermont basketball program was to require the workings of a very ambitious man. Pete Salzberg fit the bill. 
"It's a tough, frustrating and time consuming operation," stated Salzberg in reference to the recrui­ting process. Considering the task that the 1964 Columbia graduate had in front of him in that autumn of 1972, his statement is one made credible from personal experience. He had a team to rebuild and he had to go out and get the players. 
Upon organizing h is recruiting plans, Salzberg took up as his first concern as putting together a schedule of games ·that would include national powers. Such a move, although ridiculous to the few Vermont fans at first consider­ation, would go a long way in "selling" the university's basket­ball program to prospects around the country. 
''Scheduling is a vital part in the art of recruiting," Salzberg stated emphatically. "You can only recruit to your schedule. A second rate schedule will only get you second rate players. You don't gain anything from competing a­gainst someone that you're better than." 
During Salzberg's initial year as Vermont coach, he realized that his players were being intimidated by opponents that were in the same league with them. The members of the 1972-73 Catamount squad were "poisoned" with a losing attitude. Drasticaction was needed to arrest the sickness of the program and Salzberg's high reaching intentions became evident when the next season's schedule came out. 
When Vermont basketball ob• servers got around to getting their basketball schedules for the 1973­74 season, they pinched them­selves a few times. Could it be for real? Vermont was to meet the likes of North CarolinaL, North Carolina State and Vanderbilt with in a one week stretch on a swing through the South. Salzberg's rebuilding and recruiting drive was underway! 
Basketball fans across the state of Vermont were shocked at the schedule that now loomed before their state university's bask.etball team. Eyebrows were raised and questions were asked. Mainly, how could Salzberg expect to rebuild the program when his team was sure to be demolished by the Southern powerhouses? Why couldn't they just stick to their in-state and Yankee Conference opponents? 
"Sure, we expected to be handily beaten .in these games, but we were losing anyway and when it comes to losing, it doesn't matter how much you lose by," Salzberg answered the basketball cynics. The Catamount coach was quick to realize that a SO point loss to North Carolina State would do more for the basketball program than a ten point loss to another small, Eastern school. His scheduling theory was correct. High school basketball players took notice of Salzberg's ambitious efforts as he realized recruiting success going into that second season. 
Drawn by the prospects of play­ing for an ambitious coach against some of the best teams in the country, Warren Prehmus, Ron Gottschalk and Charlie Trapani enrolled at the University of Ver­mont in the fall of 1973. All three players had been highly touted as high school stars and their enroll-
Notre Dame fired in seven straight points to regain the lead 36-3S. Maureen Maloney led the way with five points and several offensive rebounds. This proved to be a key factor in the game as coach Sally Duffy explained, "Losing Bonita (Bradshaw) early in the game hurt us on the boards but Maloney picked up the slack." 
The lead changed hands several times as Maloney and Nowalk exchanged baskets. Play than got sloppy as neither team could manage to get a shot off as turnovers occurred frequently. 
. Notre Dame grabbed the lead for the last time with 1:3S left in the game as Pat Meyer sank two free throws in a bonus situation giving the Irish a S7-SS lead. St. Mary's had several chances to retie the score, but lost it with three straight turnovers. Carola Cummings scor­ed a lay-up and sank two pressure free throws to ice the win. 
The Irish showed poise down the stretch which seemed to make the difference. ''Since Christmas we have been working hard on en­durance and stamina and it paid off on our fast breaks at the end," explained Duffy. ''The girls played like a team. They give each other confidence and this has been the difference between this year and last." 
Notre Dame finished with 37o/o from the floor and .425 from the charity line. St. Mary's was close behind with a 35 o/o field goal average and 52o/o from the free throw line. 
Nancy Nowalk of St. Mary's led all scorers with 16 points. Kathleen Cullen added 14 in the losing cause. 
Pat Meyer finished high woman for the Irish with I 4 points followed closely by co-captains Lally and Maloney who each added 13 points. Maloney led all rebounders with 15. 


ment at Vermont reflected Salz­berg's initial recruiting success. He now had a foundation of playing talent upon which he could contin­ue building the team. 
Salzberg's three "pioneer play­ers" squared off as raw rookies at Raleigh and Chapel Hill against the likes of David Thompson, Bobby Jones and Tom Burleson that year. As expected, Vermont lost the games by substantial margins. What they gained however was the respect and attention needed to help Salzberg continue his rebuil­ding work. 
Now three years later, the Uni­versity of Vermont basketball team is coming of 16-10 and 1S-10 seasons before their current one. Salzberg continues to realize rec­ruiting success thanks mostly in part to his scheduling policy. Today, Vermont can be considered one of the perennial favorites to 
*Obse·rver 
.Sports 
Hall of Fame inducts three 
NEW YORK (AP) -Three more names were added to the member­ship roll of baseball's Hall of Fame Monday when the Veteran's Com­mittee named the late Amos Rusie, a turn of the century pitcher, shortstop Joe Sewell and longtime manager AI Lopez to the Coopers­town shrine. 
They will be inducted in ceremo­nies on Aug. 8 along with infielder Ernie Banks, the only player elec­ted in the Baseball Wr'ters Associ­ation of America election earlier this month. 
The 10-man Veteran's Commit­tee which includes Hall of Famers Stan Musial, Burleigh Grimes, and Charlie Gehringer huddled for more than three hours before reaching its decision. 
Ground rules for the Veteran's 
·committee require that those un­der consideration be out of baseball for 25 years and that five years have passed since their last consid­eration by the writers. The committee· is limited to adding three names to the Cooperstown roster which now has reached 161. 
Rusie and Sewell were named as players and Lopez in the nonactive category that covers managers. umpires and executives. 
Rusie, who died in 1942, pitched for 10 seasons with Indianapolis the New York Giants and Lmcm­nati Reds, winning 243 games and losing 160.for a .603 percentage. In 
.eight seasons with the Giants, he won more than .30 games three times, and won 20 or more the other five years. His bcsl vcar.., were 1894 when he cnmpikd a36-IJ record and IIN7 when h<· was 2Q-H. 
challenge for the Yankee Confer­ence title and a berth in the Eastern Collegiate Athletic Conference (ECAC) playoffs. 
It was just four years ago that Salzberg inherited a basketball team lacking any hopes of being where they are today. They have come a long way and although they have an even longer way to go before achieving success on the national level, Vermont has man­aged to attract many of the top players in the East in the last few years. Such is the power of ambitious recruiting. 
Pete Salzberg is now able to be more realistic in his scheduling of opponents, having raised his team to a level of competency alongside that of any Eastern power. What the Vermont Coach now finds are the same various problems that face all college coaches in their recruiting of high school ~thletes. 
Nicknamed "The Hoosier Thun­derbolt," he sat out the entire 1896 season in a contract dispute and was under suspension in 1899 and 1900 before being traded to Cincin­nati in 1901 in a deal that brought pitcher Christy Mathewson to New York. Rusie pitched in just three games for the Reds and was 0-1 while Mathewson went on to Hall of Fame stardom with the Giants. 
Sewell played-14 years as a major league shortstop, the first 11 with the Cleveland Indians and the last three with the New York Yankees. He had a career batting average of .312 with 1,011 runs batted in. 
Twice, Sewell led the league with only four strikeouts in an entire season and his total of 114 career strikeouts is the fewest of any player with 14 or more seasons of major league service. 
Lopez spent 19 years in the majors as a catcher but was elected not for his playing, but for his record as a manager with Cleve­land and the Chicago White Sox. 
In 16 seasons beginning in 19Sl, he won two pennants and finished second 10 times. He managed Cleveland for six years from IQS 1­1956, piloting the Indians to the American League pennant and a record Ill victories in 1954. That snapped string of f1ve New. York Yankee championships. 
In JQS7. Lopez moved to the· White Sox and two years later the~· · won the AL pennant. snapping another Yankee streak of four Yankee titll'.., 
-Lopez' teams won 1,414 ~ames, lOth on the all time list and hts .582 winning percentage is eighth best among all managers. 


