
The Observer 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's Vol. XI, No. 66 Wednesday, january 26, 1977 
Carter's economic program 
'77 Tax rebate envisioned 
WASHINGTON AP -President Carter's $31 billion economic pro­gram may include a $50 cash payment for nearly every Ameri­can. including the non-taxpayit~g poor, Bert Lance, Carter's budget director, said yesterday. 
Lance said the payments would be in the form of a tax rebate for each personal exemption claimed by taxpayers for 1976. There also would be a cash payment for persons receiving Social Security benefits and for low-income per­sons who do not pay taxes. 
Lance said Carter has also deci­ded to ask Congress to encourage business investment by raising the investment tax credit to 12 per cent from 10 per cent. 
However, some liberal Demo­crats and the AFL-CIO criticized Carter's emphasis and said they would try to shift the focus of the legislative package to job creation and minimize the tax relief. 
Congressional leaders who met with Carter at the White House quoted the President as saying that his is "the best way" to stimulate the economy. Rep. John Brade­mas, the House majority whip, said Carter pledged ''to meet Congress more than half way" in the quest for action on his programs. 
Lance told reporters it may not be possible to provide payments ot all the poor, expecially, those with incomes below $4,000, because it could cost nearly as much in administrative costs to reach them as the amount of the payments themselves. 
"We will try to reach all we can. Unfortunately there may be some we can't reach," he said at a briefing. 
The way Lance outlined the rebate plan, a family of four with income of $10,000 would receive a total tax rebate of about $200. For a family of three, the rebate would total $150. 
But Lance said final details remain to be worked out, and it is not yet possible to say with certainty how much a family at a given income level would receive. Upper-income Americans probably will receive rebates, but the 
Gassman discusses plans for semester with HPC 
byTomByme Senior Staff Reporter 

Student Body President Mike Gassman attended the semester's first meeting of the Hall Presidents Council last night and outlined the projects his administration will undertake during the remainder of his term. 
Gassman also distributed a Stu­dent Government survey on the LaFortune Student Center, design­ed to sample student opinion on the facility as a basis for possible renovation. Included in the four­page handout is an explanation of disciplinary process at the hall and University levels, provided by Stu­dent Government Judicial Coordin­ator Bob Bode. 
Student Government will assign high priority to resolving the problem of the lack of social space on campus, according to Gassman, who added that funds would be sought in the upcoming months from the board of trustes and major contributing alumni. He said that the money would be used to help correct some of the deficiencies of the student center. 
"Some of the rooms could be more practically used,'' remarked Gassman. "I'd like to see the basement developed also, since some of the rooms down there are hardly used.'' He also expressed the hope that a dining area could be added to the Huddle area. 
Gassman disclosed that the in­stallation of washing machines on campus, recently approved by the administration, will be delayed until a suitable location can be found. 
"There seems to be a chance that we might get the machines in by mid-semester break,'' said Gassman, noting that the site will probably be on the south quad. 
He also informed the council that his proposal to install cable televi­sion on campus has been stalled by University officials. "There seems to be a disagreement on the part of the University about fostering something like TV that might not be conducive to study," explained Gassman. 
"A reply will be written and we'll do a little more homework financially." 
In a letter to Gassman, Univer­sity President Theodore Hesburgh indicated that the idea was "open for future consideration." 
Gassman also briefed the hall presidents on the progress of the. student lobby working to lower the drinking age to 18, led by Jerry Klingenberger. While the Indiana House of Representatives has "turned more conservative," ac­cording to the Student Body Presi­dent, the measure will be first considered by the Senate, where chances of passage are more favorable. 
In other business, the HPC Executive Coordinator Keefe Montgomery urged the presidents to assist in the organization of An Tostal, the annual three-day festi­val scheduled to begin on April 21. 
"This year, we're going to try to stress the hall presidents becoming more involved in the organizational 
aspect," said Montgomery, who is co-chairman for the event which is sponsored by the HPC. He solicited ideas and pledged to report to the council on the progress of An Tostal preparations. 
HPC Chairman J.P. Russell ur­
ged the council members to "get 
more involved in An Tostal," 
adding that many students were 
probably unaware that the festival 
was sponsored by the HPC, 
The annual James E. Brogan A ward will be presented to the hall or organization contributin_g the 
Continued on page 6 amount hasn't been finally deci­ded, he added. 

Lance said he hopes some parts of the program can be approved by Congress by April, but declined to estimate when payments may actu­ally be in the mail. 
The total amount of the rebates and cash payments would be about $11 billion this year, Lance said. Carter earlier had estimated the rebates would be between $7 billion and $11 billion. 
Carter's total income stimulus program, which must be approved by Congress before bec_omes effec­tive, would be about $31 billion, slightly larger than first proposed. About $15.8 billion would be for 1977, and $15.5 billion for 1978, Lance said. 
In addition to tax rebates and help for business, Lance said the package will include the jobs programs and permanent tax re­ductions Carter proposed earlier. 
Carter is expected to disclose additional details in a message to Congress within the next two weeks. 

Weather delays completion of SMC Athletic Center 
by Marti Hogan St. Mary's Editor 

A wave of sub-zero weather and heavy snow has pushed back the completion date of Saint Mary's Athletic Center, according to Stevie Wernig, assistant dean of Student Affairs. The completion date, which was previously scheduled for March 23, has now been set for July 1. 
The construction workers were prohibited by state law to work under the severe weather con­ditions for safety reasons. "When snow freezes on the steel, it gets slippery and is unsafe to work with," Wernig explained. 
The outside walls of the building will be made of translucent fiber glass, which must be formed to curve at the top before it can be installed. "Until it gets a little warmer, they can't form it proper­ly," she said. 
However, construction resumed last week on the center as the workers are now working inside on the lower level. "They still think they can make up a lot of the lost time," Wernig said, "but you must can't count on the weather in Northern Indiana. If it snows from now until March, it's a different story.'' 
Wernig stated that the building will definately be ready for student use when school starts in August. "It's almost better to wait to make sure the building is totally finished, she said. She referred to the previously scheduled completion date saying, ''The basic construc­tion might have been finished, but would the light bulbs have been installed or the floor markings in?" 
The building's dedication has also been moved back to Septem­ber, but no date has been set. A plaque is being prepared in honor of the class of 1977 and will be affixed to the building. 
"The class of '77 was the first class to contribute money for the center, and the leaders of that class influenced the other classes to contribute to it," Wernig said. "That's why I really wanted the center to be completed for them." 
Interior design 

The design for the middle of the floor, an "interlocking SMC on a diagonal slant," has been complet­ed. "It's in royal blue," Wernig explained adding that the center will be "an extremely colorful building." 
"It has an exposed ceiling." she continued, "and all the pipes will be painted different colors." The inside walls will be off-white cinder block whilf the outside is trans­lucent fiber glass. 
"Even on cloudy days in South Bend we won't need to have the lights on," she said. "It'~ an extremely energy-conscious build­ing. That's why it was built into the ground instead of above. It won't even look like a gym," Wernig added. 
The main equipment, such as basketball hoops and tennis and Vollevball nets, is included in the cost of the building. However, St. Mary's has already purchased add­itional equipment over the past two years. "For the past two years we've known that we'd have the building,'" she explained, "so we had money in the budget since then to buy the equipment." 
Equipment will be available for students who wish to play but do not own their own equipment. "If a kid wants to try racquetball but doesn't want to make the initial investment, she will be able to go down to the issue room and sign out a racquet and ball," Wernig said. 
She emphasized that students should not be afraid to use the center or participate in a sport because they may have never played before. "We hope everyone will use the building," she said. 


ND housing shortage relieved 
by Rosemary Mills 
The housing shortage that greeted many new students last semester is now alleviated, says Father John Mulcahy, Director of Student Housing.There is no longer crowding of students into the Farley Motel, R.A.'s rooms, and other available space. 
Mary Craig, a readmitted stu­dent, resident of South Bend, is presently the only woman living in the Farley Motel. While there are no open accomodations in the women's dormitories, five spaces are available to men. These spaces were opened by the graduation of 53 seniors in December, the move­ment of 20 students to off-campus housing, and other students who did not return. 
According to Mulcahy, there is no waiting list for male on-campus housing. Approximately 90 stu­dents were on this list at the end of last semester. There are still three of 33 women waiting to move on campus. 
Mulcahy stressed that Notre Dame does not have an over­crowding problem. he explained that most room shortages occurred with transfer and readmitted stu­dents. These students are not guaranteed housing. They elect to wait for an open room. 
An Observer article on Sept. 2 quoted direptor of Admissions John 
T. Goldrick as saying "We're already proposing that 400 fewer students be accepted next year and instead be put on the waiting list.'' The same article mentioned a revision of admissions policy in the near future. 
According to Goldrick's state­ment yesterday, however, the pol­icy is to " ...accept the best students first.'' Neither this policy nor the admissions quota will 
chan_ge from last year. While Goldrick stated that the quota was 1,625 students, Mul­cahy, a member of the Admissions Quota Committee, stated that next year's quota has not yet been determined. Mulcahy did say that the quota would be between 1,625 and 1,650 students. He sees no reason to accept fewer students. One of the reasons behind Mul­cahy's statement is that 1,022 seniors now reside on campus as compared to last year's 753. June graduation would thus provide more openings for those entering in the fall. Mulcahy sees no possibility of a lottery for housing. He explained that the problem this year was caused by 73 more students con­firming acceptance than the Uni­versity expected. Mulcahy stresses that, in his four years as housing director, the admissions office had never had this problem before. 
the observer 

-On Campus Toda!J'­
r 
8:30am 
10:30 am -11 pm 
3:25 pm 

I 4:30 pm r 
t 
7 pm 

~ 
' 
~ 
7:30 pm 

r [ 
8 pm 

~ 
8:15 pm 

~ 
I 
! 
9 pm · 11 pm 

' 
colloquium, "the land of israel in the hebrew bible", by prof blenkinsopp, rare book reading room, library 
sign-ups, Iafortune billiards tournament, Iafortune poolroom 
lecture, .. interactive process design", by prof. brice carahan, university of mighigan, ann arbor, sponsored by chemical engineering dept., chemical engineering bldg., room 269 
awards ceremony, navy midshipmen battalion change of command and awards ceremony, stepan center 
lecture, "geologic history--key to accumulation at decar creek", by james h. clement, american association of petroleum geologists, sponsored by earth sciences, earth sciences bldg., room 101 
american scene series, "the fourth dimension and computer animated geometry", by thomas f. banchoff, brown university, carroll hall 
basketball, pittsburgh at notre dame,ace 
concert, steven de groote, pianist, finalist in leventritt audtitions, sponsored by music dept., library audi­torium 
nazz event, john steinman, nazz 
I midnight wsnd 640 am, the album hour features anthony phillips, "the grease and the ghost" ~ 
r 

Kesey to open SLF 
by Mary Ann Layden 

This year, song and interpretive 
dance performances wilt highlight 
the Sophomore Literary Festival, as 
well as an outstanding group of 
peots and writers. The Festival will 
be held from Sunday, Feb. 13 
through Saturday, Feb. 19. 

Ending its first decade of literary 
participants, the 1977 Festival will 
host Ken Kesey, David lgnatow, 
William Goyen, William Stafford, 
William Burroughs, Michael Ben­
nedikt and Denise Levertov. 

Performing on different after­
noons at 3:30 in the Library Lounge 
throughout the week will be pianist 
John Colligan, a Notre Dame 
undergraduate. guitarist and poet 
Naomi Shihab and poet Hamode 
Sam Hamod. 

Notre Dame graduate student 
Vicky Dill will perform to flute 
music an interpretive dance of 
Denise Levertov's poetry. Levertov 
will speak directly following the 
dance at 8 p.m. Saturday night, 
Feb. 19, in the Library Auditorium. 
The theme of the upcoming 
Festival is "mapping the geog­
raphies of man's consciousness." 
Writers will read from their works 
at formal evening sessions at 8 
p.m. in the Library Auditorium, except Ken Kesey, who will be in Washington Hall. 
Sophomore John Santos. Chair­man of the Festival, said, "The emphasis this year will be on showing the force, energy and electricity with which the arts can transform a place when artists get together.·· 
Opening the Festival Sunday night will be Ken Kesey, author of One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest and Sometimes a Great Nation, both of which were made into movies. He is also the star of Tom Wolfe's Electric Kooi:-Aid Acid Test. Living in Oregon, he recently published an article in Esquire and wrote Kesey's Garage Sale. Santos 
said, "He's got an energy that 
Washington Hall will have a hard 
time drawing lines around." 

Poet David Ignatow .will present his works Monday night. Living in New York, he teaches at Columbia University and is also a "poet in residence" there. He has received the Gugghenheim Fellowship and just recently won the Bollingen Prize, one of the most important awards for American poetry. . . . 
~· 0#0 . , 0 0 , I 1 I .~. ~~~~.· ,'· :'~~~ :· :'• 
0 1 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 

.'•/•.'t....t:f./~.'"·'•.!-...'·../{,'•. '..__'· ·'• '· .": •. '.:..,!_·~ • • ' •,·•, :· 
Novelist and music composer William Goyen will appear Tuesday night, Feb. 15. He is best known for his novel House of Breath. Now teaching and writing in New York, his work shows strong influence from his childhood in Texas. He has won awards for both his novel and musical compositions. 
Poet William Stafford. reciting his works on Feb. 16. is a representative of the Midwest. He is currently in the English depart­ment of Lewis and Clark University and has received awards for his book Traveling Through the Dark. 
Novelist William Burroughs will read on Feb. 17 from his works including Naked Lunch, Junkie and The Ticket that Exploded. He is a former heroin addict, a world traveler, and is a respected inno­vator of recent American fiction .. 
On Feb. 18 Michael Benedikt wtll 
read some of his poetry. He is 
presently an editor of "Art News" 
and poetry editor of the Paris 
Review, and he teaches at Hamp­
shire College. He has received 
poetry awards including a 1968 
Guggenheim Grant and a National 
Endowment for Arts prize for his 
poem, "The Rings of the Nose." 
British poet Denise Levertov will read her works on Feb. 19. She was born in England and came to the U.S. in 1948. She is on the faculty of Tufts University, and she has been awarded the Guggenheim Fellowship. In 1965 she began the "Writers' and Artists' Protest a­gainst the Vietnam War.'' 
Monday, Feb. 14, student John Culligan will play piano while David Ignatow's poetry is sung. Wednesday Shihab will play her original folk music. She is from Texas and just published a book, Tattooed Feet. The same day Hamod will read his poetry and recite Arabic poetry. He is from Michigan and wrote The Famous 
Boating Party. A tape of literary theorist Laura Riding Jackson will be played on 
Friday afternoon at 3:30 in the Library Lounge. She was invited to the festival, but had to decline due to illness. 
Some of the authors' books are available now in the reserve book room of the library. Helping Santos are Mary Marten and Peter O'Brien on the Executive Council and Kathy Ryan in publicity. . 
• ' I ,', ·.', o 1 • o o 1 1 "l 1 • l Jt J .f f
·~, t; ';,I~ 11
1 

. _'' ..... '\ '. ·~ •, ''-~-' .\.a, .t, 4. ·.,a 1. 1.·, ••• ·,," 


Parents weekend planned 
by Craig Lombardi Staff Reporter 
Nan Bufalino, organizer of the Junior Parents Weekend said all the activities scheduled for the weekend from February 25th to the 27th are still on despite problems encountered with the. mailing of ticket requests. 
Many parents did not receive their ticket packages although they were mailed before Thanksgiving. 
The Junior Parents Weekend will commence Friday night at 8 p.m. with a cocktail hour in the main concourse of the ACC. On Satur­day morning beginning at 9 a.m. there will be a collegiate workshop where the parents will be able to meet representatives of various colleges, including Notre Dame, and discuss professional opportuni­ties in various fields. 
Saturday afternoon there will be a basketball game at the ACC against LaSalle Unfortunately there are a limited number of basketball tickets so they will be given out on a first come-first served basis and are limited to three per family. 
Saturday evening at 6:30 p.m. there will be a mass at Sacred Heart followed by the President's dinner at Stepan Center which will 
Little sisters visit SMC campus 
by Maureen S~bel 
Approximately two hundred extra girls will be on the Saint Mary's campus this weekend. Girls from grade school through high school will arrive Friday for the first annual St. Mary's Little Sister Weekend. 
''The weekend should be pretty ·successful," said Nancy Mogab, junior class president. "We started planning it before Christ­mas and are really excited about it." 
The weekend events begin with registration on Friday afternoon in LeMans Hall. St. Mary's students may register for their little sisters if they will be arriving past the designated registration time. 
A movie, The Trouble with Angels, a dance in Regina Hall with music provided by Sahara, and skating at the Athletic and Convocation Center complete Friday night's planned activities. These events are open to all Notre Dame and St. Mary's students, with the exception of the skating party. 
A limited number of tickets were set aside for the Notre Dame­Fordham basketball game Saturday and can be purchased for little sisters at registration. Also on Saturday afternoon, buses will take 
girls,  free  of charge,  to  the  St.  
Mary's basketball game.  
By  popular  demand,  Second  

City, a comedy troupe from Chicago, will return to O'Laughlin 
continued on page 4 

be attended by Father Hesburgh. or go to the Student Activities The weekend will conclude Sunday office and pick up the ticket morning .with a breakfast at the package. South Dining Hall. The guest Bufalino urges that all ticket speaker for the breakfast has not requests be returned by February 1 been chosen. to facilitate organization. She also 
Anyone interested in purchasing asks that the dorms provide social tickets should call Bufalino at 6780 gatherings for the parents. 

The Notre Dame-Saint Mary's Theatre 
in cooperation with the 
Sain-t Mary's Performing Arts Series 
presents 

THE SAN QUENTIN DRAMA WORKSHOP 
in Samuel Beckett's 


Waiting For Godot 
One Performance Only 
Sunday, January 30, 1977 8:00 
O'Laughlin Auditorium 
Admission $3.00 (Students $2.00) 
Wed-Thur-7:00-9:30p.m. Fri. 2:30-5:15-9:50p.m. Sat., Sun. 2:00 -4:30 -1:00 . 9:4 
r-------------~~----~­
All South Bend is Climbing Aboard for the Joyride of the life! 

SILVER STRERI.f 
Starring Gene Wilder Jill Clayburgh Richard Pryor Patrick McGoohaty 
Sorry ... No passes or reduced price tickets ~ 
~ 
It's here 
Every year brings 

NOW!!!

A great movie•..•.• This Time it's cl GREAT GANGSTER MUSIC Run out and see this movie WOR Radio 
Wed., Thur. 6:15-8:00 · 9:45 SCOT Fri., Sat., Sun. at 1 :45 -3:35 . 5:20 -T(V,OasiluJsy 7 :30 -9 :30 p.m. ..()1-t.jCASSISias f• 


a Student Players I Social Commission -Production 
Sunday, January 30th 1:00PM LaFortune Basement 



the nazz Crew Members Also Needed 

t1 It '_ ... "t/ l<' ~ ~ ~ ~· 'i 'o 'r ': ', .( ..,. "r ·• ", 9.' ' I , '(., I I' 1 ,.., ~~I ,•., I··.. ·,·~ t • ... t.'\ f, 
t~'· ....,;'.. ,t .4 .,. , :',', ,..: • •• ·, , • ~', 1 '•,.·~··•• ~ • •• ~. •.,•, ·~.·,.~
t. f "• #1 ~ ~ l.t I, J.. t,. 1 IJ 11 IJ."J.,.,/t.'l.l_./ ,lt..l·.'l.'~. , f ., • ,: , ¥ .. 1 

' 'f, f, 
·w~~dnesday, january 26, 1977 the observer:_____--=-3 

Bars receive heavy fines for admitting minors 

by Dave O'Keefe Staff Reporter 

Two local bars have recently received stiff penalties for viola­tions of a state liquor ordinance prohibiting the sale of alcohol to minors. The actions were the results of separate raids conducted by excise agents of the· Indiana Alcoholic Beverages Commission (ABC) late last year. 
As a result of the actions taken, at least one area bar will no longer accept the Notre Dame or Saint Mary's student identification card as legitimate proof of age. 
Fat Wally's was forced to close its doors on Jan. 9 after a state judge in Indianapolis revoked the bar's liquor license for a one-week period. 
The ruling came on the heels of a raid conducted last November by agents of the ABC that resulted in the arrests of three minors. none of whom was a Notre Dame of Saint Mary's student. 
In a similar case, Nick Bilello, owner of Nickie's Restaurant, ap­peared before the same judge last Monday and was ordered to pay a $300 fine for serving alcohol to patrons under the age of 21. 
At the same time, the judge recommended that the bartender's license of Nickie's employee Larry J urkens be revoked for his part in the incident. The action against Jurkens is still pending. 
As in the case of Fat Wally's, the 
action  against  Bilello  stemmed  
from  raids  conducted  by  ABC  
agents.  

In a seemingly unrelated inci­dent, a number of area bars reported having been visited by vice officers of the South Bend Police Department last Friday night. 
Fat Wally's manager Gary Pioch was the only proprietor to report that the officers actually confronted patrons and asked for age identifi­cation. 
One man was arrested in Fat Wally's for refusing to produce identification, although it was later learned that he was not a minor. He was charged, however, with interfering with a police officer in the performance of his duties. 
As a result of the action taken against his establichment, Pioch says that Fat Wally's will no longer accept a Notre Dame or Saint Mary's student identification card as legitimate proof of age. 
"We've caught a lot of flak from Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students," Pioch commented, "but I've been told that a Notre Dame or Saint Mary's l.D. is not acceptable because it is not issued by a state-administered agency.'' 
Library owner Rick Kanzer ad­mits that the student l.D. card is not technically a legal form of identification in Indiana. "But we have used them in the past,'' 
Former ND official dies 
George N. Shuster, who served as assistant to University President Fr. Theodore Hesburgh and direc­tor of the Center for the Study of Man in Contemporary Society from 1961 to 1971, died last night after a 
Morris Civic to host Charlie Daniels 
Southern rock group The Charlie Daniels Band is set for a W ednes­day Feb. 2 concert at Morris Civic Auditorium. 
Texas band Point Blank will open the show. Tickets for the Charlie Daniels/Point Blank show are now available at the River City Review ticket outlets: Just For The Record (100 Center), Boogie Records (Mishawaka), Record Joint (niles), Fanta-C Records (Benton Harbor), Suspended Chord (Elkhart). 
The River City ticket agency also has tickets for the following up­coming concerts: Rush/Starcastle, Jan. 30, Morris Civic; ZZ Top, Jan. 30, Ft. Wayne Colliseum; Genesis, Feb. 13, Wings Stadium (Kalama­zoo); Black Sabbath, Feb. IS, Ft. Wayne Colliseum; and Harry Chapin, Feb. 19, Morris Civic. 
brief illness. He was 82 years old. 
Shuster, who was a 1915 gradu­ate of Notre Dame, had previously served as the President of Hunter College in New York City and as the editor of the Commonweal magazine. He was also director of the United Nations Economic and Social Council, (UNESCO), prior to his becoming assistant to the President here. 
Plans for funteral services have not vet been made. 

(*The Observerl 
Night Editor: John Calcutt 
Asst. Night Editor: Jack 
D' Aurora 
Features Layout: Dave 
O'Keefe 
Sports Layout: Fred Herbst 
Typists: Nancy Cueroni, Anne 
Giere, Kathy Egbert, Leigh 
Tunaken 
E.M.T. 
Martha Fanning Day Editor: Chris Datzman Copy Reader: Katie Kerwin Typists: Nancy Cueroni, Anne Giere, Kathy Egbert, Leigh Tunakan 

E.M.T. 
Martha Fanning Day Editor: Chris Datzman _ Copy Reader: Katie Kerwin 


Kanzer added, "and we'll continue According to Jurkens, Nickie's to accept them as long as they look will continue to accept the Notre legitimate." Dame or Saint Mary's J.D. as a 
As a result of the action taken legitimate form of picture identifi­against his bar, Bilello requires cation. that a patron produce either three The violation for which Fat forms of identification or, if one Wally's was cited was its third of contains a picture of the bearer, 1976, while Bilello was fined for two. only his second violation in 8 years. 


SLC changes format to forum strjucture 
by Joe Gill Staff Reporter 
The Student Life Council decided yesterday to change its format and become a ''forum for the discussion of student life." Acting on a suggestion by SLC Chairman Mike Casey, the SLC moved to designate the next meeting for discussion of a specific topic, such as alcohol policy, faculty hiring, social space, or disciplinary procedure. 
In a letter sent last week to SLC members, Casey expressed his disappointment that the ''SLE is not living up to its potential." he labeled as mistaken the idea the the SLC must turn out a ''legislated product" at the expense of real dialogue, while noting that "deli­beration and some real discussion can be much more beneficial." 
Once the specified topic is dis­cussed, further study will be con­ducted by a special ad hoc commit­tee in the weeks following. The committee will then make a final decision, proposal, or recommen­dation concerning that particular area. 
Much of the meeting was spent discussing the function of the SLC* in regards to Casey's letter. Student Body President Mike Gass­man said he feels there are ''a lot of issues we (the SLC) should sit here and discuss. We've got Bro. Just (Vice-.President of Student Affairs), Dean (of students) Roemer, stu­dents, faculty--everything we need." 
The council also discussed topics for a consideration of future meet­ings. Sr. jane Pitz, C.S.C., sug~!stea the quality of life at 
N.D. Tae Kwon Do Club ( Korean Karate ) Invites all old members and any interested beginners to work out with us this semester. 
Mon., Wed., Fri., at 
ACC, 6 p.m. to 8 p.m. 
Call Mark -283-8316 or 
And -287-6189 
Notre Dame. A few members felt this concept was "too nebulous," and Roemer suggested that the S.C inskad review and evaluate the services available on campus for students. 
After further discussion Biles asked the members to "write down three areas you feel need discuss­ing." The suggestions were then handed over to the Executive committee, which will decide what the SLC will discuss at the next meeting. 
i• 
!i 
: 
! ~ i
t 
• 
t 

Fat Wally's manager Pioch feels that the consistent raids have hurt his business. Pioch described what he felt to be the prevailing attitude among the students. ''the general feeling is, why should we go to Fat Wally's and get hassled when we can go to Nia.kie's or Corby's or The Library and not worry about some­one beating on the door," Pioch said. 
~-::-------·




1nazz1 
1needs I 1 help I 1 call Il_ll.S.lJ
................................. 
•  4  
:.  SMC Social Commission presents:  ~ :  
l: SECOND  ::  

+ Ticket sales begin Tues. ,.at SMC Programming + Office--41 7 6 + 
Box Office closes at 8:1 s the night of the perfor­
·.:
mance.

i.................................. 

CITY I• 
I! 
a comedy revue in an all new show Sat., Jan. 29-8:00pm ~ 
O'Laughlin Auditorium : $2.00-Students & Faculty !: $3.00 -General Admission • 
t 




nazz 
..,\G~1 John Steinman (9-11)
--(0'' 
Coming Thursday 
Da"e Shaheen ( 9-12) Greg Mandolini BE THERE !! 
The Nazz will be open six ni~Jhts a week, 8-12 Monda¥ thru Thursd~y and 9-2 Friday and Saturday. The Nazz has been equipped w1th stereo equipment to provide continuous music courttesy of the Sound Room. . . The Nazz features food, drinll<s, lively conversation and lots of mellow mus1c. 
Future attractions--Feature Artist Nights Drama in the Nazz Album ttours Comedy The 21 oo Club The Nau Deli 
//..'.//•.'/.t,::·•.··_.-..•..r.·.··.. ···.··.:.·.·.·.ralent Shows' Fbet Readings 

Memhet\lltp enlttlel yn:t tu / 
1 BUCKET Of BEER (5 Lttre.J 
I 
5 $1.00-0FF COUPONS fur FAMILY SIZE PIZZA 116""1 
I 
1PERSONALIZED METAL I 
, BUCKE1 . ~e_:-_­\ to hrtii!J permanently from -j2­
, our cetlmg wrth name r. -....... 
dlld date olmemhershrp, etc.. _ i. 
"-...:. '':·' "" u11ly S7.9v 
A $13 Value!! 


Game Room 
NOW OPEN 
Hickory Rd. onlv 
pinball foosball 
COLLEGE NIGHT 
Sunday 
show college I.D. & ge $1.00 off 16" Family size Pizza! 401 N. Hickory Rd. T&C 
•.. 3JN·,...at Darden.Rd.>. 
Wednesday, january 26, 1977
the observer 

Senate confirms Bell for attorney general 
-Keenan -Walsh-Student Union Social Commission Invite you to really ring out the old and ring in the new.......... 






Wew Years Eve Party 
Saturday, Jan. 29th 
North Dining Hall 9pm-1am admission $1.00 Music by North Star 
Refreshments-Music-Party Favors 
iSTVDENT UNION SOCIAL COMMISSION PRESENTS 
N.D.'s first Annual 
HALL SNOW 
SCULPTURE 
CONTEST 




THEME:FAME 
(famous people, places, things) 
gogmg. Brook protested and asked for an apology. Bayh said he had made the remark inadvertently "in the heat of passion." 
Bell, 58, served on the 5th U.S. Circui.t Court of Appeals for nearly 15 years by appointment of Presi­dent John F. Kennedy and has been described by Carter as the best qualified person he could find to head the Justice Department. 
But at hearings held by the Senate Judiciary Committee his nomination drew strong opposition from the National Association for the Advancement of Colored Peo­
ple, the Congressional Black Cau­

visit SMC 
cus, Americans for Democratic Action and other civil rights and liberal organizations. 
Brooke, the Senate's only black, called the six days of hearings held by the Judiciary panel "pro forma and perfunctory" and said addi­tional witnesses should have been summoned in an effort to get all the facts about Bell's record. 
Bayh, who took the lead in the Senate debate in urging Bell's confirmation, said Brooke's indict­ment of the committee was unfair. 
He said its questioning of Bell, 
lasting some 13 hours, had been 
probing and detailed. 

The committee voted ten to three to recommend Senate confirma­tion, with all the dissenting votes cast by Republicans. 
Sen. Charles Mathias (R--Md.), one of the committee members who voted against the nomination, told the Senate that Bell's confirmation "would raise grave doubts about whether the people could look to the Justice Department in the future as a citadel of equality and justice." 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The Se­nate yesterday confirmed President Carter's nomination of Griffin B. Bell, an Atlanta lawyer and former federal judge, to be Attorney General. The vote was 75 to 21. 
Carter's selection to head the Justice Department stirred more controversy than any of Carter's other Cabinet appointments and the Senate vote was preseded by more than six hours of at times acrimonious debate. 
Republican opponents contended the Democratic majority was not applying the same standards to Bell that thev would have had he been the ~ominee of a GOP president. Some of them also raised questions of "cronyism" because of Carter's long-time friendship with Bell. 
But most of the debate over Bell centered around his civil rights record. an issue emphasized by blacks and liberal organizations who opposed his nomination. Carter has called Bell's civil rights record "superb." 
Sen. Edward W. Brooke (R-­Mass.) said six days of hearings by the Senate Judiciary Committee left "great gaps" in the record. He moved to send the nomination back to the committee for further hear­ings. The Senate rejected his motion by a vote of 70 to 25. 
Earlier Brooke had clashed 

sharply with Sen. Birch Bayh (D--Ind.) who led the floor fight for Bell's confirmation. The two liberal senators usually are allied on civil rights issues but this time were on opposite sides. 
Brooke was among Republican senators who suggested that if Bell were the nominee of a GOP president, he would be rejected by the heavily Democratic Senate. 
Bayh denied Democrats were "rubber-stamping" the Atlanta lawyer because he was the nominee of a Democratic President and at one .point accused Brooke of dema-

Little sisters 
continued from page 2 Auditorium to perform Saturday night. The troupe presented an evening of skits last November at St. Mary's. The weekend's events will close with a special mass for the little sisters in Regina Hall's Chapel. Meal tickets for the weekend may be purchased at registration on Friday afternoon for $9. This 
fee  also  includes  tickets  to  the  
dance,  movie  and  ice  skating  
party.  

"We planned the Little Sister Weekend because a lot of girls 

Cinema '77 
King Kong to Kubrick 
--~----­

~--~~~---------------~­

5 
punk (Malcolm McDowell) and the psycho­with a ferocious comic spirit and rampag­
therapists who seek to supress his homici­ing satire in The Seduction of Mimi. 
dal tendencies through behavior modifica­Giancarlo Gianinni is Mimi, a Sicilian 
tion. It is a tale rich in allegorical quarry worker who escapes to the mainland 
profundity with re:>pect to man, the mind after incurring the unhealthy wrath of a 
and society. local mafiosa. His sexual misadventures 
make up most of the film but in the end The Bang the Drum Slowly (April 5,6): This is Seduction of .Mlml, thanks mostly to what's known as a sleeper; gang, a film Wertmuller herself, neither degenerates that did poorly at the box office but is nor denigrates. nonethelessexcellent stuff. Robert DeNiro turns in his cab for a catcher's mask in this role as a struggling young rookie who So there they are, the films that will be discovers that he is dying. Michael seen on Tuesday and Wednesday nights at 
Moriarty as his best friend and star 7:30 and 10:00 p.m. in the Engineering pitcher, and Vincent Gardenia as the Auditorium. (Note: A Oockwork Orange team's manager, combine with DeNiro to will be shown in Washington Hall). Patron give the film a rare sensitivity and Cards for the series will go on sale today at thoughtfulness. the Student Union Ticket Office and may 
also be purchased before the first few Metropolis (April 26,27): From the silent movies if the supply lasts. The cost is days of German film comes Fritz Lang's $5.00, dirt cheap for the outstanding value somewhat heavy-ha.nded and oppressively it brings. moralistic fantasy about the evils of the Writing about the films is personally urban-industrial complex as he saw it in disconcerting because it tends to reduce 1926. Despite its weaknesses, Lang's me to a babbling ad man since I'm forced precocious vision combined with elaborate to use so many superlatives to describe and imaginative set:> have earned this film these films. The fact of the matter is that an outstanding reputation. almost every one is indeed worthy of any 
superlatives my limited imagination can The Seduction of .M[Imf (May 1,2): As in conjur. No one, from the casual moviegoer Seven Beauties, Love and Anarchy, and to the true buff, should miss very many of Swept Away, Italian filmmaker Lina Wert­the films offered this semester. muller attacks the follies and foibles of sex See you at the movies. 
Records 

PurE! Prarie League: Dance 
By Gregg Bangs 
~~;:1~r-~~~, ~7 -. 
,. .-.•J;..:
Pure Prairie League shows a willingness 

to experiment with different approaches to 
their solidly entrenched contry-rock style in 
Dance, their fifth album. Not all the 
variations are successful, but enough 
succeed and combine with the standard 
contry-rockers to make this their best effort 
since Two Lane Highway. (Their fou_rth.. 
Ifthe Shoe Fits was and still is forgettable). 
Usually the group -depended on the 

competent work of Michael O'Conner on 
keyboards and John David Call on Pedal 
Steer,··guitar to back up and provide spot 
solos to the lead ,guitar solos of Larry 
Goshorn and vocal harmonizing ofGoshorn 
Bassist Mike Reilly and Rhythm guitarist 
George Ed Powell. In this album, PPL hand, they make "Fade Away," another makes use of both a horn and a string 
Reilly lead vocal, seem downright sappy.section to join Call and O'Conner in 
Hereis a good performance by Call on steel background work, and occassionally let guitar that probably would've been better those two and the horn section take a solo. 
off without the strings.
The combination works well in quite a Another bright spot in the album is the 

few songs. In the title cut, O'Conne~ sets writing of George Ed Powell, a PPL the tone with a lovely piano work, original. In addition to writing "Dance,"
highlighted by a rousing sax solo, and 
his other contributions are also solid. backed by a horn section that keeps an "Tornado Warning" is another fast paced uptempo beat throughout the song. The country-rocker that features the interplay
horns are also used well in Larry Goshorn's of Goshorns lead guitar and Call's steel, 
"Living Each Day," where Goshorn uses and is given a hard steady rythm O'Conner, the horns to back up his lead solos. 
Reilly and drummer Billy Hinds. "San 
Goshorn used to be prone to raucous Antonio," a love pledge to that city and 
excesses in his le~.d playing. By· his what's in it is highlighted by Call's dobro 
performance on this ~tlbum, it is evident he work. 
has learned to play with a more subtle Larry Goshorn's "Catfishin"' recalls 
touch. His solo in this cut is excellent. those good times had out fishin', lettin' 
Strings are used well in Mike Reilly's time go by and just enjoyin' yourself. the "All the Way," ~~ song that makes song is primarily acoustic, with Call's allusions to "going" all the way, in country banjo and what sounds like a bucket-bass 

terms of course. This song has got to be a leading the way. Good tune to justify
parody of a typical Na>hvilletune for all the having a beer at any time of the day.
regular country singe:rs--booze, pay wasted PPL will never win any awards for their 
quickly on booze, a q111ickly found love and lyrics--at times they seem nothing more 
the need to realize ~t just as quickly. 
than just another instrument to be backed Reilly's voice sounds like a mix between up by O'Conner and Call. However, the Charlie Rich and Charley Pride and he lyrics are generally harmless and add to really gives it that country twang in this the upbeat nature of the music. This is a song, especially whe:n he sings, "Don't very enjoyable record, put out by one of the have far to go, It's only all the way." The more refreshing country-rock groupsstrings make all of this sound believeable around. If anything, it might get you to and somewhat attractive. On the other 
dance.
' ' " ' " . ' 
By Dauid 0 'Keefe 
In their never-ending quest to instill a modicum of sophistication and artistic appreciation in the great unwashed of Notre Dame, the inema '77 people are again offering a series of excellent films this semester. With one eye on the screen and the other on the cashbox, series chairman Sean Coleman kicks things off next Tuesday night at 7:30 in the Engineering Auditorium with Taxi Driver. Below is a listing of what to expect, published as a public service by us, your friends at The Observer. 
Taxi Driver (Feb 1.2): By now you've probably heard about all the neat little brutalities that Robert DeNiro inflicts on people in this movie. But Martin Scorsese's film features incredible depth and tact in handling the story of a cabbie who simultaneously Jives in and fights off the New York City nights, only to lose magnificently. It is a powerful study made all the more potent by DeNiro's calculated performance and some fine assists by Peter Boyle and Jody Foster. 
King Kong (Feb. 20,21): You may have never heard of Merian C. Cooper, but the monster movie he made 44 years ago remains today as a masterpiece of cellu­loid. Dino de Laurentis may have the million-dollar monkey and Jessica Lange and all the modern tricks, but Cooper had something that makes his film ultimately and undisputedly superior: it was his idea. 
Beauty and the Beast (Feb. 22, 23): Jean Cocteau's. lyric film adaptation of the famous fairy tale is an enchanting work of art that has come from the early days of film. Despite the obvious drawbacks tht confront a general audience (the ftlm is shot in black and white and is subtitled in English), the simplistic beauty ofthe visual film is matched by similarly innocent beauty of the story as Cocteau tells it. 
Slngln' in the Rain (March 8,9): This 19~2 MGM muscial has rightly earned 1ts reputation as one of the most inventive a~d enthusiastic musicals ever made. While the love story involving Gene Kelly and Debbie Reynolds as a pair of Hollywood types is hardly noteworthy, it nevertheless provides an adequate vehicle for a vast array of songs and dance scenes on which rest the film's splendid reputation. 
Stanley Kubrick Festival (March 28-31): This semester's week-long festival looks at the works of one of the most important filmmakers of today. The festival begins appropriately with Paths of Glory (March 28), the film that first brought Kubrick to the attention of the general public. It is a searing condemnation of the dehumanizing effects of war as they are visited upon Kirk Douglas, a pacifist who nevertheless becomes a soldier, only to be subjected to the orders of a crazed commander. While Paths of Glory is intensely powerful because of its bluntness, the festival's second movie, Dr. Strangelove (March 29), is even more so because of it's splendid satire. Peter Sellers and George C. Scott are characteristically excellent in this Orwellian vision of a nuclear nightmare that manages to be both outrageously funny and terrifying at the same time. In 1968, Kubrick made a film that is by all accounts the best science-fiction movie ever. 2001: A Space Odyssey (March 30) serves not so much to tell a story as it does to present a collage of intense images tied toether by the tail of two astronauts orbiting the earth in a space-lab guided by HAL, a frighteningly sophisticated com­puter. The movie transcends the usual 
man-versus-machine and man-versus-man conflicts to describe with alarming accur­acy the story of man himself. The festival doses with A Oockwork 01'1Uljle (March 31), Kubrick's fine ~daptation of Anthony Burgess's novel about a violent young 
A Man for this Season 
By Fr. Bill Toohey 
A lot has happened to each of us since we with Phil was that when he opposed you, it 
last met through the pages of the Observer wasn't because some big special interest 
·-many miles, many experiences. but one had gotten to him." 
thing especially that occurred over break Many people criticized Hart for being late should not be allowed to pass without at in opposing the war in Vietnam. But when least some special comment. he saw the facts and declared against it, he 
The day after Christmas, Senator Philip left the remaining hawks with little Hart died of cancer. the gentle, soft-spoken argument. He was also late in becoming man with a voice strong enough to lead the aware of the crisis in the CIA and the FBI; battle for an end to bigotry and a but when the facts were made known to reputation impressive enough to be known him, his attack was devasting. as "the conscience of the Senate." He told it like it is; he expressed the truth 
I first met Phil Hart several years ago, he felt in his heart no matter how when the two of us were speakers on a unpopular or bitter a pill it might be. Take program for students in a small town in the Eastland case. As a member of Hart's Michigan. It was a great honor for me: I staff tells it: "You know Phil had this great had admired him for years. And since relationship with Eastland. In fact, 
then, my regard for him grew steadily. It is Eastland is the only senator whose picture a sentiment shared by many. "In my Phil has hanging in his office. But when opinion," Senate Democratic Leader the vote came to make Eastland president Mike Mansfield recently told a caucus of pro tern of the Senate, Hart was the only Democratic senators, "Phil Hart is the best one to vote against him. He didn't think Senator of us all.". No one disagreed. that someone with racist views should be in 
Hart, a Roman Catholic, who had been line of succession for the presidency of the student-body president at Georgetown, United States ... and, you know, Eastland was considered the "principal sponsor" of understood." some of the most significant legislation of As Eugene McCarthy wrote shortly after our time: the Voting Rights Act of 1965, Hart's death, "Philip Hart was a man out Truth in Lending, Truth in Packaging, and of his proper time. He was meant for the major revisions of the anti-trust laws. Phil Age of Faith, or at least for the declining Hart was a kind of compass for his years of that age, when men like Thomas colleagues, who would frequently seek him More could make their final defense. out for methods of strategy, and ask him to beyond the civil law, in religious belief.He cosponsor their bills because of the special could have said without hypocrisy or moral authority his name carried. "He was apology, as Thomas More said just before the key man in a lot of those fights," a his death, that he had been in all things the former Senate associate said. "He was the King's good servant, but God's good guy we looked to for guidance on the servant first. Philip Hart was the good specifics of issues like open housing." servant of his own time, of his family, of his 
country, of its laws, and of its political 
Senator Hart's career cannot be measured institutions, especially of the Senate. But in terms of famous speeches and momen-in all of these, because of his own tous legislation. It's the kind of person he compelling religious beliefs, he was God's was that makes him a man for our time; an good servant first. He was not only exemplar of what it means to be truly pleasing to God; he also met the sometimes human, a person of integrity, a follower of more difficult test of being pleasing to the gospel of Jesus. He was, for example, man." a man who could never be bought off or A man like that should not pass from us snowed by a smooth fellow-politician. without due recognition, without OUI 
"I never saw Phil influenced by what you striving to learn the beautiful lesson his life might call polltical factors," Senator Jacob would teach us. Accordingly, it seems Javits once said. "Even if it meant closing totally appropriate to petition Fr. Hes-a defense base in Michigan or having an burgh to award Philip Hart an honorary adverse effect on a trade union that degree posthumously at this May's com-supported him, he stuck to his principles." mencement. Our honoring him in this way Douglas Fraser corroborated this judg-would be our sincere effort to demonstrate ment: "The thing _LOU could be sure of· that we support all that he stood for. 
lliiiiii~iiiiiiii~iiiiiiiiiiiiiiilii8iiiliiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii~iiiiiiiill 


~~------­
~----~-~--~--~-----------­





American Studies students open publishing co. 
b)' Joan Fremeau 

Twenty-one students will process and publish a book this semester for their course. "Book Publish­ing." (American Studies 462). The new course. offered by Elizabeth Christman. requires students to organize and participate in their own publishing company. 
The purpose of the course is to give the students practical experi­L·nce in publishing a book. accord­ing to Christm,m. Therefore. "the .I uniper Press" as the company is L'alled. "will be totallv operated by the students." Chri~tman said. .. rhe members have elected offi­cc;~-, of the company and have L''>tablishcd managers and editors nf the various departments. They 11 ill usc and develop their own t;tlcnts and work at the positions 
Student Union sponsors snow sculpture contest 
by Dave Williams 

This winter has brought an abundance of snow, making it possible for the Sutdent Union Social Commission to sponsor No­tre Dame's first annual Hall Snow Sculpture Contest Thursday and Friday, Jan. 27 and 28. 
Contest Chairperson Diane Ross said the idea for a snow sculpture :ontest was picked up from several schools where these contests are popular. Also, the Social Commis­sion was looking for some activity to replace Wacky Winter Weekend. 
The sculptures are to be of famous people, places or things, keeping in tune with htis year's theme, fame. Each hall has been assigned a spot to build to ensure enough snow for everyone. The sculptures are to be built between noon Thursday and 4:30 p.m. Fridav. 
The judging will take place between 4:30 and 5:00p.m. Friday. All entries will be judged on the basis of cleverness, size, accuracy and detail. The hall winning first place will recieve either $200 cash or a $200 gift certificate forl furniture. Second prize is $100 in 
t 
Memorial Mass t to be held for Terry Gwynn 
A memorial mass for senior Terry Gwynr will be offered Thurs­day at 10:30 p.m. in Sacred Heart Church for all members of the Notre Dame Community. A second memorial mass will be offered by Father Griffin in the Farley Hall chapel, Monday at 11 p.m. 
i 
The Gwynn family ask that instead of flowers, contributions to Logan center be made in Terry's name in care of the campus ministry office. 
Plans outlined 

continued trom page I most to the success of An Tostal. In another matter, Keenan Hall President Richard Hebert announ­ced that a party "recelebrating New Year's Eve" will be held from 9 p.m. to I a.m. in the North Dining 
Hall this Saturday night. The everit .,,..,, ·· 
is sponsored by Keenan, Walsh 
and the Student Union Social PRODUCTION MANAGEMENT: 
Commission. 
I ht· t H'"'r"·r '' ptJI>I"ht·d M11nda1 thr<•uc:h I rHI.tl .11HI '""""-1' dt1r1n!l thP '\llnHnt>r .... ~ ....,,1on t'\l Ppt dur1ng th" '''"n' ,md \Jtdlton pt>rtod, Th" 
they are best qualified for.. I wtll act as consultant." she contmued. 
For initial capital, each m~mber has invested $25, which wtll be returned out of the book's profits when published. Ten per cent of the profits will also be paid to the author, according to Bob Mader, 
President of Juniper. 
During the next few weeks, members will accept and review manuscripts by various authors and one will be chosen for publication. So far they have acquired seven manuscripts, most of them written bv local authors. 
~"We hope to find a well-written manuscript limited to 50-\00 pages. simply because printing costs are so high." explained Mader. "No other requirements have been set for what type of manuscript we will review." 
cash or a gift certtttcate and third prize is $50 cash or a gift certifi­cate. All interested students should contact their hall president for details. 
Once the manuscript has been 
chosen. the company will negotiate 
a contract with the author. and 
spend the next couple of weeks 
editing the copy. and correcting it 
where necessary. Maureen Flynn. 
substance manager, will be respon­
sible for editing. 
The book is then ready for production, which will proceed for the remainder of the semester. Tentative plans for production have been made, with Production Man­ager Chris Hawley and Business Manager Sue Grace responsible for final decisions. Contracts must be arranged with typesetters and printers. a cover and the interior must be designed and laid out. and the final copy must be publicized and sold. Each of these duties belongs to a specific department. headed by a company member. 
The members do not vet know to whom they will try t~ sell their book. "Our market depends on 
what type of book we choose to publish," Mader said. Should they choose a local-interest manuscript. the book will have a limited market. whereas a manuscript by a known author would have a wider market. 
Whatever the success of the book upon publicaion. company mem­bers say they will be satisfied by and taught at DePauw University gaining valuable experience in the before coming to Notre Dame. has operation of a bona fide publishing always wanted to teach a publish-company. "money is secondary," ing course. She expects the noted Mader. students will learn firsthand about 
publishing as a business. and Christman. who worked in the hopes that their venture this publishing business for 20 years semester will be a success. 


JU.N/ORS!!! 
MAKE AN APPOINTMENT THIS 
WEEK TO HAVE YOUR SENIOR 
PORTRAIT TAKEN. SIGN-UPS WILL BE IN BOTH DINING HALLS 
5:00-6: 

CHALLEDGIDG CArEEr OPPOrtUnitiES WitH tHE IDDUStru·s LEADEr 
• 

Engineering Students! If you are aggressive and looking for a career-oriented position, consider putting yourself OUT IN FRONT with Anheuser-Busch, the Industry's Leader. We will be on campus looking for individuals with Engineering degrees to join our Engineering and Operations Departments on Wednesday, February 2, 1977. 
CENTRAL ENGINEERING: 
B.S.M.E. -M.E.'s will gain experience in such diverse fields as material handling, equipment layout, piping system development, steam genera~ion, compressed air systems, ventilation, heating and air-conditioning and h1gh-speed bottle and can packaging. 
B.S.E.E. -E.E.'s can expect to be working in such areas as electrical machine design and application, power distribution, sub-station layout as well as industrial and commercial lighting, electrical control circuits and systems control. 
Our Operations nepartment is offering opportunities in our Production Management Training Program for individuals with leadership ability and Engineering degrees. This 12~month course is designed to cover all phases of operation and administration and prepare trainees for a career in Production Management. 
()b,Pr\f'r i'> publ"hed bv 'itudt>nto, ut 
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION AND SIGN-UP, CONTACT YOUR PLACEMENT OFFICE. 
th•· l """r"'' nt ~otrP lJamP and '>t .'\1drl ' ( olle~<· '>ub" rtpt10r" n1d\ lw pun hd'it•d tor $20 rwr lt'dr 
ANHEUSER-BUSCH, INC. 
I$1() pPr wmt•'>!Pr) from T hP Obwr~ 
721 Pestalozzi 

\t'r. Box Q. NutrP DamP. llldiana 
St. Louis, Missouri 63118 

4b'i'ifJ SPcond cia'>'> po~tagt> paid, NotrP Dame. Indiana 4b1';b ThP ObsPrvPr " a membN oi the Ao,~ouated PrPss All rPproduction 
. ' .....
An Equal Opportunity Empwyer~MfF.·. · · 

~ighh arP re'>NVPd 
•· ....... :": :-·.·: •.•·~ •..: ...• ...: ....: .• ·" ...............• .~ ,• ,. _.. J' ,. \' .. \ 

-------------~--~--­
------~~-~ -­
Wednesday, January 26, 1977 the observer 
7 
ND cuts costly energy use 
An energetic campaign to con­turning off lights and other electrt· serve energy at the University has cal appliances when not in use, and resulted in a saving of almost of by reducing the use of heat and air 
5.7-million kilowatt hours during conditioning where possible.last _year. The University joined in the effort The report compiled by Rev. by turning off the floodlights
James Riehle, director of energy illuminating the Memorial Libraryconservation, and William Ganser, Mural, and by affecting majorchief engineer at Notre Dame's engineering changes in the power 
power plant, listed savings of plant. $106,536,000 and an additional $70,000 in heat and air conditioning Before the Arab oil embargo, Fr. costs. Riehle said the University used 
Students, faculty and staff were 53,221,000 kilowatt hours of elec­asked to aid the campaign by tricity in 1972-73. 
r-----·clip and save·-----1I Spring Retreat Weekends I 
I January I
25-27 (Fri -Sun) 
I 

. --• " ·""* Staff I
Students experienced difficulty walking to O'Shaughnessy Hall yesterday through a newly-created 1 28-30 (fri -Sun am) O I river. [Photo by Janet Carney] I 6~d '2:,~~:eurrell r=!~ ~~~~:g~aving made 
Broken water main creates river I Exercises in Prayer COR. TEC, SEARCH I . . I february april 1
Students attending classes in dents torged alternate routes Occasionally, the cast-non p1pes 1 O'Shaughnessy Hall yesterday through the surrounding snow break at the point where the pipe 4-6 (fri _ Sun) 1-3 (fri _ Sun) I 
were confronted with an unusual banks, or braved the swirling enters the building because of the I Fr. Jim Burtchaell Pre-Cana C""5 obstacle to their academic pro­waters to get to class. added stress." • Old C II Old C ;:;-: 
gress. According to Mr. Kenny Kampf, Kempf expects that the portion 0 ege ollege ""6 A large pool of water had formed assistant director of utilities, the of the O'Shaughnessy Tidal Basin ~ ~ in the driveways outside the north puddle was caused • 'by a water which is not cleared by normal t;:::S ;:::: entrance to O'Shaughnessy and mainbreakinapipeleadingtothe drainoffwillhave.frozenovemight. t'-118-19 (fri-Sat.) _ (F._ S t) ~ 
15 16

adjacent to the Radiation Labora­Radiation Lab. The ground outside Students attendmg classes there ...,_ Fr. d. Burrell & Fr. J. Gerber . ." a tory. Although this made passage the building is constantly shifting, today are advised to tread careful-~ Michigan City Service In the Church Vl to O'Shaughnessy difficult, stu­
while the building itself is stable. ly, or bring their skates. § For Faculty & Staff Old College ~ 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ 
Classified Ads _____________ I
~ 1a-2o !Fri-sunJ 22-24 !Fri-sunJ
Notice Re-;;d"f;»;;;:;;;r;;ia"dc;t"lost RETREAT + THIS WEEKENT, 1 Freshmen Retreat Fr. John Dunne I
A.ttention!! CILA summer projects 

at Sporka's off campus party sat. FRI. EVE. THRU SUN. MORN. I Old College Old College
are comin[l. Applications may be Jan 22. Dark Blue nylon with OPEN TO ALL. FR. DAVE BUR·picked up in the Volunteer Service orange and white trim. Also Gloves RELL +AT OLD COLLEGE. SIGN 

I
Office in LaFortune. For further information call Mark at 233-3613 or ~~~isc~~~~c~i~f~~;~$~~~~~t. Call ~':.!~~~_!~S-~~~~~--I sign-up in 
Lee at 1504. 

Do you want to be a catholic. Notre 
I 
Dame Ca•echumenats Pronram. 
Need typin[l? Professional Typin[l Wanted iaaji3C8a27;pus Ministry at 283 ..6536 or 

1I campus ministry office I
Service Top Quality convient Location 232-0898 

Summer in Europe. Student sales representative for European flights 
~~H;;;y-Bi;:ihd~;"H-;r-;,;;ur I lz"b.,.'(JrylI
MORRISSEY LOAN FUND $20 -150 personal. Rats, I can't think of 1 1needed part-time. Earn fli[lht plus1 day wait. 1 percent interest. Due one....

extra $$. Send qualifications within 30 days. LaFortune Basement. 
job and personal references to: JimM-F 11:15 · 12:15. 
The porthole is closed for the
Moldane; 919 Fernview Dr. , St. 
I $6fee I 
season.
Louis, MO 63141.
Typin[l 35 cents a pa[le. Room 40 Call Dan . 272-5549 
I l" d .J
Tic~t ~ fue Not~ Dame . ~~-~~-~-~-~-~-~-~-~-~-~-~-~-~-~-~-~-~~~~~-~~~~~-~~-~~-~r~C~l~~a~n~~~s~a~v~e~~~-~~-~~-~-~~~
burCJh basketball [lame. Call 287--11Accurate, Fast typin[l. Mrs. Donho 232-07 46. Hours . Bam to 8pm. 

Need 4 tix to Dayton basketball
~~:_____________
Quality, licensed day care -infants, [lame. Will pay $$. Call Chris atone and two years olds. First United 

1161.
Methodist Day Care, Inc. 333 North Main St., S. B. Mondays .Fridays, 6:30am 5:30p.m. Call 288-1168. 
Is your life empty? Order the 

:~~=~~~~:.:-·:~~~~.~..
Chica[lo Tribune. Call 8670. 

lent condition, call 277-3762 niles till midni[lht.
Used Books . Book Barn. 1 mile north of Notre Dame. 272-5520. 
Stereo for sale . brand new, never been played. Marantz receiver,Adult Educations Classes start Feb. 
Garrard turntable, Dynaphase7th -Beninninn and advanced speakers. Askin[l $375. For info.
Sewin[l, Knits, Tailorin[l, Draperies 

Bill 8658.
and Home Accessories. FEE$7 .50 . 12 weeks at one ni[lht per week. 
For Sale, HEAD 360 skis, 68" lon<J,Re<Jistration forms in Observer solomon bindin(ls. $85. Human.ic
office or phone: 288-1261 Adult ski boots, size 7,$25. excellentEducations Dept. South Bend Com­condition. Kathie 287-0759.
munity Schools. 
Audio Outlet: top-name stereoSi[ln-up for Man-Woman speaker equipment, wholesale. Call 283­series on Aspects of Intimate Rela­
1181.
tin[l before Friday across from 244 O'Sha[l. 
Calculator: Litronix 2260, Paran­thesis, scientific notation, AC a­Anyone interested in volunteerin[l at 
dapter, $25.00. Renny 7018.
Logan Center please come to ND Library Aud. Thur. 8:15. Any questions Sue . 277-1182. 
Personals 

loCJan Volunteers: SO's dance. Wed. ni[lht, 7:30 10:00 at lo[lan The first Senior Class Advisory Center. 
meeting will be held as usual at 
Greyhound Bus to Chica[lo leaves 4:15 TODAY! Be there!!! Main Circle every Friday at 5:45 pm. Call Tom at 8338 for reservations and further info. Gregggggg. 
Hello. Freshman Colloquium if you've M. SiCJned up, a senior will be callin[l you this week. If you haven't Si[lned Need a friend? ND -fSMC Hotline, up, look for sinns in the halls 4-4311 open nights. announcin[l information meetin[ls to be held this week and this weekend. Single, try matchmaker for a new Get involved!! way of meeting other sin[lles. Write 
P.O.Box214, Mishawaka, Ind. Encl. For Rent a stamped envelope. 
Need one housemate. Own bed­Where were you May 16th, 1975? room, close to campus. $50 plus one For more information call: 8959. third utilities. 287-2702. Pamela Jean Eisenlohr: Roommate, 2 rooms, $40 a mo. 233-1329. it's bad enou[lh to leave the blessed state of sin[lleness, without leavin[l the titillating teens, too!. We'll 
Lost and Found miss your "no need for profanity, girls$", "Potty mouth!", "Joyce, I Found: Sunglasses outside Flanner, miss Braaaddd!", and that flat 
Dec. 18. Call Petz 6970. Michi(lan accent. Happy 20th 
birthday, and enjoy this last semes­Lost: Nickel . plated fountain pen ter with us. You'll miss us when between Farley, Mem. Library and you're stuck with a husband!!!. 
O'Shag. Call Maureen 6825 or 1715. Love Forever, 
Lost: Silver Cross Pen, Moreau Sue, Joyce, Mariaand, Mary Anne. Hall, Rm. 228. Thur. Jan. 20. Call P.S. Happy Birthday Maria, "She's Rick 683-0956. so cute!!" Tan. · 
~

We'll ~··~e ~ou a snowJ·ob 
voti:re gonna_like.
J ' 

Ski Cotttinental's Colorado. 
Tired of the same old scene'? Relax and skierized Avis rental car, 3 days of lift think snow. Colorado snow. Continental tickets, plus meeting service at the airport. can get you there on a wide-bodied DC-10 Don't forget to ask about how you can or spacious wide-look 727. Then ski your. save even more with our special discount way through Colorado with one of our airfares. For more information on Conti· great ski packages. Here's asample: nental's ski package, call your Travel Agent 
Breckenridge St44 · 5; days/4 nights or Continental Airlines. Accommodations at Der Steiremark, a 

Prices per person double occupancy: tax. airfare andskierized Avis rental car, 3 days of lift · 2as for rental car are extra. Drivers musl be 21 or over. tickets, plus meeting service at the airport. Vail 8264-8 days/7 nigllts Accom­modations at Vail's Holiday Inn, a 
CONTINENTAL AIRUNES 
The Proud Bird with the Golden Tail 

-------~-----~--------~-----­
8 

Smith cites reasons for icers' play 
by John Stenson Sports Writer 
As Digger Phelps and his troops 
try to shake the memories of the 
last weeks, his hockey counterpart 
can only hope that the future will 
be as pleasing as what has already 
been accomplished. Lefty Smith 
and his squad has turned the tables 
on the collegiate powerhouses, 
(Michigan being the latest victim) 
and as they approach this week­
ends series at Colorado College, 
only six points separate them from 
Wisconsin and the top spot in the 
W.C.H.A. 
Smith attributes much of the 
recent success to the physical 
condition of the squad. "At the 
beginning of the season we thought 
we hand an excellent hockey team 
but after the Michigan State series 
where we lost five of our six 
defensemen due to injuries, we 
where really caught short and this 
set the tone for a slow start," he 
said. As predicted, when the Irish 
did get back to full speed their 
fortunes began to change. "If 
there was a turning point so far in 
this season," Smith noted, "it 
would have to be the overtime win 
against Michigan at Ann Arbor. 
This was the first time that we had 
the whole club back together and 
from there everything seemed to 
fall into place.'· 
For things to fall into place as well as they have recently for the Irish. winning eight of their last 11 and being ranked third in the nation, there must be more than o ne reason and Smith gives credit where credit is due. "I told the club at the beginning of the year that we not only needed excellent leadership out of Jack Brownshidle and Brian Walsh but from all the seniors and I think that each has done an excellent job as far as this is concerned." 
One senior cited for special recognition was winger Allan Kar­

snia who doesn't always get his 
share of ink. • 'Allan is a very fine 
skater and has been voted our best 
defensive forward the last two 
years. Its a shame he doesn't 
always get the press but the team 
recognizes his value both on and off 
the ice." 
Another man who has avoided 
much of the limelight is junior 
defenseman Dick Howe whose 
improvement has been steady from 
the start of the season. "When you 
play along side a player like 
Brownshidle as Dick now does it's 
bound to give you some added 
confidence and in this way Dick has 
benefittedfrom Jack's experience," 
Smith observes. "Dick has gone 
out and worked all summer on his 
shot and his upper body strength 
which he now heavily relies. 
Combine this with the fact that 
Dick is a very intelligent hockey 
player with excellent hockey in­
stinct provides him with the ability 
that has been so helpful to us." 
As far as his co-captain Brian Walsh is concerned, Smith has noticed a definite change which allows "Dukie" to be a true leader as a senior. "Brian has shown us a great deal of maturity in his last two years. He's got great instinct and this along with his ability as a leader more than make up for what he lacks physically. His maturity and dedication have been the keys to his success and it is these qualities that make him so valuable to us." 
The goalie situation has been a hot item around the team for some time now with the Irish coach believing that he's got two of the best and along each to show there talents on alternating nights. "The goalie situation is odd in this respect. Lenny (Moher) had the best camp and we decided to go with him in the first series. Then when we went East we wanted to play both Len and John (Peterson) and both did a fine job for us on the holiday swing and I felt that they 
*Observer 
Sports 
Notre Dame tracksters to open indoor season 
Joe Piane and his Irish trackmen meet,'' confessed Piane, who re­begin their indoor season Friday turns for his second year as Irish with a home meet in the coach. 
A.C.C. The Irish entertain Bowling "We'd like to get some addi­Green, Indiana Tech and Chicago tional strength from our sprinters Circle in the meet beginning at 7:30 and middle distance men, and rely 
p.m. on the pole vault and distance team 
"We hope to make a better to carry us through." showing in the events that we were Piane will be counting on in­lacking in last season with this coming freshmen Kurt Spieler and 
Pete Gilsinger along with Jim 
O'Brien in the sprints. Pete Burger 
SMC cagers win and Jay Miranda (an NCAA indoor 
qualifier last season) will anchor 
Returning after a 31/2 week layoff the middle distances, and co-cap­for the holidays, the SMC basket­tain Jim Reinhart, Dennis Vander­ball team continued their winning kraats and Kevin Kenny will ways. 68-29 against Purdue-Calq_­be among those competing in the met this past Wednesday. distance events. 
SMC quickly dispelled any fears Friday evening's opponents pose of staleness as they burst open for a a balanced threat to the Irish, as scoring spree in the first four each unit is talented in many areas minutes. An effective full-court according to Piane. press and domineering control of ··Bowling Green is strong in all the offensive and defensive boards events, and Indiana Tech will give set up many fast breaks which us a good meet in the sprints and characterized the SMC attack. jumps," admits Piane. "Chicago SMC led at halftime 36-10. Circle is coming off its fourth-place 
Leading all scorers with 15 pts, finish in the NCAA Division II Kelli Conlin sparked the SMC Cross-Country Championships, so I offense in the 2nd half. expect the meet to be an extremely Kelli Conlin (15 pts), Martha close one.". 
Kelly (12 pts) and Nancy Nowalk The meet will take place in the (8 pts) were high scorers, as ten Fieldhouse of the A.C.C., and is SMC players scored. open to the public free of charge. 

~uch of the credit for the recent success of Notre Dame's hockey team has to go to co-captains Bnan Walsh [left] and jack Brownshidle [right] along with coach Lefty Smith [center]. 
both deserved a shot at Minnesota goal of 25 victories for a club that month. Such an assumption is far and again both played well when 
had youth but was experienced in from outragous when you consider 
called upon." As far as the rest of that Wisconsin will play Denver,
many key areas. According to
the season goes, Smith feels that he Michigan Tech and Michigan at
Smith's crystal ball, if tht:: team can
would like to keep both men as Ann Arbor over the next three
finish with a 10-2 spurt then they
sharp as possible so it would weeks. It is still highly probable appear wise to look for the alter­should be W.C.H.A. champions. that it will not be settled until the nating system to hold true until the In order to map such a future, one final weekend when Wisconsin 
team's fortunes change. must assume that Wisconsin will journies to the A.C.C. for a final Before the season, Smith set a drop at least 2 games over the next showdown on March 4-5. 
Wales takes NHL Star tilt 
Vancoover AP -Rick Martin's 1-0 lead just 2:54 into the game Buffalo replaced Dryden in the second goal of the third period, a when Eric Vail of Atlanta blasted a Wales' net. With Philadelphia's 10-foot shot with 1:56 remaining, 35-foot shot past goalie Ken Dry­Bobby Clarke and Buffalo defense­gave the Prince of Wales Confer­den of Montreal. man Jim Schoenfeld blocking Des­ence a 4-3 triumph and its third Lanny McDonald of the Toronto jardins' view, MacLeish whizzed a consecutive victory over the Clar­Maple Leafs answered for the shot from the left wing boards into 
ence Campbell Conference in the Wales squad with the first of his the upper corner of the net. National Hockey League's 30th two goals 3.5 minutes later. After But again McDonald brought the annual All-Star Game Tuesday Campbell gaolie Bernie Parent of Wales side back. With just 33 night. Philadelphia had made a brilliant seconds left in the second period, 
Martin, the powerful, left wing toe stop on a shot by Montreal's he wristed a screened 30-footer 
of the Buffalo Sabres, had given Bob Gainey, McDonald tapped in past Resch. the Wales side a 3-2 lead with a the rebound for the game's first An oddity occurred at 15:32 of power play goal at the four-minute deadlock. the first period when the Campbell mark of the final period. But Phil Rick MacLeish of Philadelphia Conference was caught with too 
Esposito of the New York Rangers restored the Campbell lead at 11:56 many men on the ice. Never in teh knocked in a rebound at 12:23 to tie of the middle period, a mere 29 30-year history of the game had the game for the third time. seconds after Gerry Desjardine of such an infraction been called. 
But with a sudden-death over­time period less than two minutes away, Martin took a pass from Montreal's Guy Lafleur, bore in on 
Irish win streak reaches 51 
New York Islanders goalie Glenn Resch and sent in the short shot The Notre Dame fencing team 51 consecutive victories, longest that handed the Campbell squad its stretched their season mark to 7-0 ever for Notre Dame, date back to third loss in the three games since with victories over Bowling Green 1975. The most notable perfor­the contest was shifted to a and Purdue last weekend at the mances last weekend were turned conference format. A. C. C. in by Mulligan, John Strass and 
Martin was named the game's Despite the absence of two Rick Valdiserri. All recorded 3-0 outstanding player and awarded a All-Americans, the Irish still were marks. car through balloting by the Pro­able to defeat Bowling Green, 21-6, fessional Hockey Writers Associa­and Purdue, 23-4. Sabre All-A­tion. merican Mike Sullivan and epee 
The Campbell Conference took a All-American Tim Glass were in AP Top Twenty New York with head coach Mike DeCicco competing in an Olympic The Top Twenty teams in The intra-squad meet. Glass finished Associated Press college basketball 
Women fencers fourth and Sullivan was sixth in the poll, with first-place votes in paren­nation. Earlier in the week foil theses, season records and total fencer Pat Gerard turned in a fine points. Points based on 20-18-16­
cop pair of wins 
performance finishing seventh. 14-12-10-9-8-7-6-5-4-3-2-1: This competition was geared to by EUeen O'Grady forming the team that will repre­1. San Fran (47) 19-0 1,049 ND Women's Sports Editor sent the United States in the World 2. Michigan (3) 13-1 895 Championships in Sofia, Bulgaria, 3. Alabama 14-1 705 
Notre Dame's Women's Fencing in October. The top five men in 4. N. Carolina (4) 13-2 658 team opened their first season as a each weapon qualify, though their 5. Nev-LV (1) 16-1 566 varsity team last weekend, when ranking may change before the 6. Kentucky 12-1 562 they defeated both Purdue and world event. 7. Tennessee 13-2 500 Bowling Green State. "It seems as though the guys do 8. UCLA 14-2 435 In actual scores, Notre Dame well with or without me," noted 9. Marquette 13-2 406 defeated Purdue 7-2, and Bowling DeCicco. "This year we have an 10. Wake Forest 14-2 364 Green 5-4. Captain Kathy excellent combination of leadership 11. Louisville 12-2 359 Valdiserri opened the season in her and talent with such seniors as 12. Cincinnati 12-2 276 usual manner, winning all four of captains Terry McConville and Tim 13. Minnesota 12-1 219 her matches. Mulligan. This squad has the 14. Providence 14-2 121 The next meet for the women will makings of the best all-around 15. Arkansas 14-1 102 be at home against Indiana State team we've ever had, but it is too 16. Arizona 14-2 99 and Michigan at Dearborn. It is early to tell." 17. Syracuse 14-2 45 scheduled for this Saturday after­There were many heroes for the 18. Purdue 11-4 33 noon at 1 in the fencing gym of Irish as the team extended its 19. Clemson 13-3 24 the ACC. winning streak to 51 straight. The 20. Memphis St. 16-2 21 






