

0-C students 
Move your cars! 
South Bend Mayor Peter J. Nemeth has invoked emergency powers and ordered a massive towing of parked cars for the next four days. --. -­
Due to the recent bad weather, a situation has arisen in which many side streets and residential streets have become restricted to the point that emergency vehicles have been 
denied passage. In order to relieve or correct this situation, Nemeth has ordered that the following parking restrictions be placed in effect: 
On Tuesday, Feb. 8, there will be no parking allowed on all north and south streets located west of U.S. 
The 

Observer 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's 
.,J-­

The T.V. room of LaFortune was packed again last be issued, interested students are encouraged to as dealer school continued in preparation for attend dealer school as soon as possible. Gras. Because only 2500 dealer cards will [Photo by Paul Clevenger] 
Danehy supports hockey broadcasts 
by Barbara Breitenstein News Editor 
While administration officials wait to confer on a statement of policy for WSND radio, the chair­man of the Faculty Senate says that station manager Dom Fanuele is "absolutely right" in his reasoning for broadcasting hockey on the station. 
In a letter to Vice-President of Student Affairs Bro. Just Paczesny, Fanuele outlined the conditions under which hockey was and should continue to be broadcast by WSND. Fanuele then requested Paczesny and members of the administration to suggest a policy statement for the radio station. 
The letter, which was also sent to Fr. Edmund Joyce, University executive vice-president, Bro. John Benesh, director of Student Activ­ities and Prof. James Danehy, Faculty Senate chairman, drew differing reactions from Danehy and members of the administra­tion. 
Both Joyce and Benesh would not comment on the letter until a h1eeting between those involved in 31 (Michigan Street). This order shall be in effect from 8:00a.m. to 6:00p.m. 
On Wednesday, Feb. 9, there will be no parking allowed on any east and west streets located west of U.S. 31, from 8:00 a.m. to 6:00 p_.m. 
On Thursday, Feb. 10, there will be no parking allowed on the north and south streets east of U.S. 31 (Michigan Street) from 8:00 a.m. to 6:00p.m. 
On Friday, Feb. 11, no parking on the east and west streets located east of U.S. 31 from 8:00 a.m. to 6:00p.m. 
the question had been arraigned. However, Danehy issued a brief statement to Fanuele praising WSND and expressing favor for hockey broadcasts. 
"I can see no reason whatsoever why WSND should not also cover hockey,'' Danehy commented, "especially in view of the demand and the carefully circumscribed conditions outlined in (Fanuele's) letter." 
According to Danehy, the letter outlines four conditions under which hockey broadcasts are per­missible on the FM station. These include requirements of community interest, underwriting (financing) of the broadcasts and consistency with the goals and purposes of the station. 
"The (latter) condition is the only contentious one," Danehy explained. "Bro. Just Paczesny contends it is inconsistent with fine arts. But the fact that the station has been broadcasting hockey since 1970 and· its license was renewed by the FCC in August, 1976, is evidence that the hockey broad­casting is consistent with the 
.-purpos~s of the station. . I think 
All cars parked on these streets during these periods will be towed by the city of South Bend. Such action will result in a $20 charge for towing plus a $2 ticket. Prior to this action, which will begin tomor­row morning at 8:00 a.m., police department has been order­ed to tow all abandoned vehicles found on residential streets. 
Parking on snow routes, which have already been cleared, will be allowed and is encouraged during this period. Once a particular residential street has been plowed and cleaned under this program, parking will be allowed. 
Fanuele is -absolutely right," he said. 
"I hope the report is favorably acted on by Bro. Just," Danehy commented. 
Danehy stated the letter will be turned over to Prof. Irwin Press, chairman of the Senate Faculty Affairs Committee, which has a "continuing interest" in the student media. · 
According to Paczesny, the administration officials will ''work out some kind of statement" this week.'­
"I will meet with Bro. Benesh and the staff of Student Activities to put together a suggested policy statement for relations with WSND-AM and FM," he said. Paczesny said he did not want to make a statement on "the letter until a basic agreement is worked out." 
"We are not trying to use censorship here,'' Paczesny emphasized, "and we have no intention of operating the radio station in spite of what the implica­tions are. The students have been doing that well for years. But I believe it was necessary to do what we did.". 
Missionaries shot in guerilla attack 
SALISBURY, Rhodesia AP-Seven white Roman Catholic missionar­ies, including four nuns, were lined up and shot in a guerrilla attack that stunned Christian church groups in Rhodesia and brought an expression of "profound grief' from Pope Paul VI. 
Officials said it was the worst group killing of whites in four years of war by black guerrillas against Rhodesia's white government. 
The one survivor of the shooting said three German Dominican nuns, an English Dominican nun, twoJesuit missionaries from Ger­many and a lay brother from Ireland were executed ins1de the compound of their mission school north of Salisbury on Sunday night by guerrillas who argued about who would do the shooting. 
''They did not say one word about why they were doing this to us," said Father Dunstant Myers­cough, an English Jesuit who said he threw himself to the ground when the guerrillas opened fire. "When one of the sisters asked what they wanted, one of them said, 'We want our country.' " 
Rhodesian police said they col­lected 111 empty cartridges from Soviet-made machine guns at the 
The controversy began in October, when Paczesny requested WSND to "discontinue the prac­tice" of broadcasting hockey on the FM station. According to Pac­zesny, the coverage of hockey games is prohibited because the station is licensed as a fine arts station. 
"I believe in the principle of fine arts," Paczesny said, "and I think the programming should be such." 
Paczesny said Fanuele's letter "made no concrete suggestions. They are asking me to do what I had asked them to do--suggest a statement of policy. I had expected (the station officials) to do that in this report," he said. 
Both administration and station officials agJ;ee there is a need for clarification of the station's policy. However, according to Paczesny, the problem is the question of broadcasting any sports on the FM station. "Hockey just happened to be there," he said. 
"We understand things need clarification," Fanuele noted. "We are not trying to drag things on and on. We are trying to communicate and get things straightened out.''· 
shooting scene, the Catholic Masu­mi mission in the hilly country 36 miles northeast of the Rhodesian capital. 
A telegram sent by the Vatican to black Archbishop Patrick Chakaipa of Salisbury said Pope Paul "prays for peace and justice to be re-es­tablished in all regions afflicted by these atrocious crimes." 
Archbishop Chakaipa called the guerrilla attack an "evil act" which made a "mockery of whatever good ideals they claim to serve." 
Father Myerscough said 12 guerrillas gathered him and the seven others on a sandy road running through the mission com­pound. They seemed to argue then about who should kill them. 
"One came forward and then withdrew. Then another did the same. Eventually three came for­ward and the others ran off. They raised their guns and opened fire." 
Another white nun, 74, had been ordered out of her room but fell when a guerrilla pushed her through the door. She said he left her behind after she told hem she had arthritis and could not move quickly, "Later I heard the shoot­ing," she said. 
Father Myerscough said the intruders ignored black nuns and staff members at the mission. 
John Potter, police superinten­dent for the area, contended the attackers were members of the outlawed Zimbabwe African Na­tional Union, a black nationalist movement "under the alleged con­trol of Robert Mugabe." 
Mug'lbe is a black nationalist leader .vith whom Prime Minister Ian Smith has refused to negotiate a transition to black majority government in Rhodesia. Smith contends Mugabe has Soviet back­ing. 
Twelve missionaries have been killed in Rhodesia in the last two months. 

Pre-registration 
worries? 
'Jock' courses 

on page3. 

l'~-.·······J'rl'...·.···-·.-.-,•.,,J',.,. 
----~-----~--------------------~ 
Tuesday, February 8, 1977
the observer 

,...._Qn Campus Today­
1:15 om -lecture, "flying opportunities for women in the air force" by lt. niggins, haggar hall aud. 
4:30pm -seminar, "global justice: biological perspectives" by rev. theodore m. hesburgh, sponsored by the biology dept., galvin aud. 
5 to 6:30 pm -black cultural arts festival, "soul food" night in dining halls. 
7 pm -meeting, phi sigma alpha govt. honors society, 108 o'shag. 
7 pm -lecture, "modern river deltas: variablility of precesses and sand bodies" by dr. james m. coleman, american assn of petroleum geologists distinguished lecturer, sponsored by earth sciences dept., room 101, earth sciences bldg. 
7 pm -general meeting, scholastic staff, new and old, scholastic office, top floor Iafortune. 
7-9 pm -mixer, proctor and gamble, cinn. "brand manage­ment" careers blue/gold room, morris inn. 
7, 7:30, 8, 
8:30 and 9 pm ·­
7:3~ pm 
8 pm 
8:15 Pl!l 
9 pm 
10 pm 
midnight -dealer's school, mardi gras, tv room of Iafortune center aud. 

-meeting, charismatic prayer meeting, log cabin chapel. 
-black cultural arts festival, barbara proctor, owner of proctor and garnder advertising, chicago, library aud. 
-lecture, "the borders of judaism" by prof. charles primus, second of a series entitled "the land of israel in jewish tradition," sponsored by the theology dept., galvin aud. 
-meeting, an tostal 

-meeting, knights of columbus, council chambers. 
-album hour, john sparks plays the new album by brian auger -"happiness -heartache", wsnd, 640 am. 
*The Observer· 
Night Editor: Marti Hogan Asst. Night Editor: Bill Rivard layout Staff: Cecelia Mitchell, Karen Konarski, Cindy McKiel, Steve Kendra Editorial layout: Chris Smith Sports layout: The Sports Editor, Frank LaGrotta Typists: Kitty Conklin, Karen Chiames, Stephanie Urillo, Mel Celeste Night Controller: Donald Roos Day Editor: Jeanne Powley Copy Reader: Cathy Nolan Ad layout: Pat Russell 


fl"here IS a difference!!! 

v.,, 

PREPARE FOR: 


~-~-~~ 
GMAT • GRE • OCAT 
CPAT ·VI« • SAT 
Our broad range of programs provides an umbrella of test­ing know-how that enables us to offer the best preparation available, no matter which course is taken. Over 38 years of experience and success. Small classes. Voluminous home study materials. Courses that are constantly up­aated. Permanent centers open. days & weekends all year. Complete tape facilitoes for review of class lessons and for use of supplementary materials. Make-ups for missed les­sons at our centers. 
ASK ABOUT OUR COMPACT COURSES 
20~0 W. Devon ~~ M~
Ch1cago, Ill. 60645 .,.p N. (312) 764-5151 IW"'I 
EOUCA TIONAL CENTER Outside NY £tate Onlv CALL TOLL FREE 
TEST PREPARATION 
C:.,Pf(tALISTC. (,t~CE P.f th
800-221-9840 

Centers on Ma1or U S. Cotoes 



Army Corps assaults snow 
by Bill Floriano 
Early Monday morning, the Ar­my Corps of Engineers began a major assault on the snow that has plagued St. Joseph County for the past several weeks. 
The latest effort to combat the abundance of snow forced the closing of many public schools yesterday to allow heavy equip­ment to clear streets normally crowded with school vehicles. St. Joseph County Engineer William J. Richardson said heshouldadvise the larger school systems to reopen today. 
Richardson and his crew are now working together with Richard Markwell, coordinator of the Army Corps, in response to a state of emergency declared for St. Joseph County by Pr~sident Carter. 
As was quoted in the South Bend Tribune, a White House spokes­be used primarily "to reopen vital· supply routes to agricultural, ed­ucational, governmental, commer­cial and industrial establishments and such other emergency assis­tance as may be required to save lives and public property, public health and safety." 

With the assistance of the Army Corps, Richardson estimated that removal operations on the "highest and secondary priority roads" would be completed on Thursday. He added that a majority of the roads surrounding the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's campuses were considered "highest priority." 
If St. Joseph County is granted status as a disaster area, Richard­son said, "a large proportion of the 
cost of previous operations will be paid for by the federal govern­ment." If not. the countv will have 
to "tighten its belt." 

man stated that the federal aid will 1 As of last Monday, over $55,000 
·""' 

Cultural Arts Festival continues enlightenment 
The Black Cultural Arts Festival at Notre Dame will continue until Feb. 27 with a variety of talks and entertainment. All sessions are open to the public without charge. 
Events include a soprano voice concert by Bernadine Oliphint, South Bend concert artist, at 8 p.m. Friday, Feb. 11 in Washington Hall. An art exhibition and panel discussion with Carol Ann Carter, graphics; Larry Sykes, photogra­pher, and Bing Davis, ceramicist, will be at 8 p.m: Saturday, Feb. 12 
in  the  Isis  Gallery  of  the  Old  
Fieldhouse.  The  exhibition  will  
continue through Feb. 25.  

Carleen Polite, author, romantic novelist and writer of social com­mentary, will speak at 8 p.m. Feb. 15 in Washington Hall and Olympic track medalist Willie Davenport will be the guest speaker at 8 p.m. Feb. 16 in Washington Hall. A talk by Delano Lewis, vice president of C and P Telephone Company, Washington, D.C., at 8 p.m. Feb. 
Thi-' Ob,ervt>r o\ publishl-'d Monday through Froday and weekly during the summer session, except during the exam dnd vacat10n period', The Ob>erver is published by students of the Univf'rsity of Notre Dame and · St Mary·s College Subscriptions may bP purchased for $20 per year ($10 p<>r semester) from The Obser­ver. Box Q. Notre Dame, Indiana 4&55& Second class postage p<!id, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
The Observer 1s a member of the Assocldted Press All reproduction right~ are reserved 
18,has been moved from Washing­ton Hall to the Memorial Library Auditorium. 
A student fashion show is set for 8 p.m. Feb. 19 in the Monogram Room of the Athletic and Convoca­tion Center and a performance of the Corine Morse Williams Dance School will be at 7 p.m. Feb. 20,in Washington Hall. 
"Gospel Festival," featuring the Andrews University gospel Choir, will be at 8:15 p.m. Feb. 22 in the Little Theater of Saint Mary's College and the Notre Dame Gos­pel Choir will perform at 7 p.m. Feb. 27, in the Alumni Hall Chapel. 
Rev. Marvin Russell, Notre Dame senior, will direct the service. 
had been spent for snow removal, which is well over the amount alloted in the county budget. In addition, $9,000 was spent each day from Monday to Friday before the state of emergency and federal funds became a reality. 
Of major concern now is the possibility of flooding in low lying areas. Richardson stated however, that Notre Dame students should not expect another unannounced "vacation for any reason." 
USAF flying opportunities 
On Tuesday, Feb. 8, at 1:15 p.m. in Haggar Hall, 1st Lieutenant Mary K. Higgins will be talking about flying opportunities for fe­males in the United States Air Force. 
Higgins, presently stationed at Grissom AFB, Peru, Indiana, will be leaving to attend a nine-month navigator training course at Mather AFB, Sacramento, California. She is one of the first six women selected by the Air Force to attend this school. 
Higgins has a private pilot's license and currently works in the Communications Squadron. Hig­gins, an AFROTC graduate, will also talk about career opportunities for women in the Air Force. 



ERRATUM 
The workshop to discuss food, military spending and unemploy­ment slated for February 18 and 19 will be sponsored by both CILA and the Notre Dame-St. Mary's World Hunger Coalition, rather than just CILA as previously printed. 
All members and interested stu­dents are invited to participate. Registration ends February 9 in the Student Activities Office. 


Senior Class Fellow!!!!! a a
Muhammad A1i Barbara Jordan 
a Woody A1len aHenry Kissinger 
Bill Cosby aAlexander Solzhenitsyn 
a Gerald Ford aGany Trudeau 
a Bob Hope aBob Woodward & Carl Bernstein 
On campus -in yourdorm 5 :00 to 6 :30 Off campus -LaFortune LDunge
0 te 11Uesday 
11 :30 to 1:00 

& Wednesday 
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------~---------­
Tuesday, February 8, 1977 the observer 


'Jock' courses-not just for jocks 
byTomByme requirements and were occupied As the source of most electives, "I'm sure there are some taking Social Psychology," "Changing Contributing Editor with applications, extracurricular the College of Arts and Letters it just because they think it's an Sex Roles," "Conflict Resolution" activities and job interviews, thus offers the majority of "jock" easy course," remarked Hoffman. and "The Family" do not require Pre-dawn vigils in irritating having less time for studies. courses, with several departments Another theology offering that is substantial work, but reportedly registration lines have paid off for making some type of contribution. popular among students is "Food, high grades are not difficult to
While the seniors have the best 
some second-semester seniors, Despite frequent changes in Population, and Energy," both achieve.
opportunity to reserve places in
who have arranged class schedules professors over a period of years, because of its contemporary topic Professor Leo Despres, chairman 
"jock" courses, many other
somewhat less challenging than "Sex and Marriage" has main­and modest workload. of the department of sociology and 
students have also expressed con­
those they faced in previous years. tained its status as one of the The music department provides anthropology, attributed the pop­
siderable interest in this type of 
Many have enrolled in certain University's most popular elec­two interesting but relatively un­ularity of sociology courses partly
class each semester. For informa­tives. Most seniors interviewed demanding courses that have in­
highly coveted "jock courses, tion they rely principally on tips to the "relevance of subject 
which are traditionally in high who were enrolled in the course creased in enrollment each sem­matter." He acknowledges, how­
from friends and what can be 
ester. to tion. student's description of the course expressed by students in "Intro­fessors to give grades lower than C. 
demand during advance registra­gained from course evaluation last semester agreed with one In response interest ever, the aversion of some pro­
booklets, although a few courses as "one of the easiest classes at duction to Music," additional sec­"We have a couple of people inhave such long established reputa­Notre Dame." tions were opened this semester, the department that I think havetions that they need no publicity. 
expanding the number to five. The presented a problem in that One tactic that students attest to 
course requires short papers based respect," said Despres. He added 
* 
Observer 
Insight 

be highly reliable for finding easier on the attendance of three sym­
that despite this tendency, the 
courses is to locate those classes phony concerts. Among the parti­average grade in sociology was at 
The consensus qualifications for with a high enrollment of athletes, cular sections, students have in the the same level as that in any arts such a course, according to Senior particularly football players. As­past displayed a preference for Fr. and letters department. Class President Rob Tully, require sistant Professor Michael DeCicco, Patrick Maloney, who also teaches Efforts by the College of Science 
that the class have ''very little responsible for the academic coun­another popular course, "Intro­to attract students from other homework, very few if ai!Y tests selling of athletes, attributed their duction to Opera." disciplines to the study of science and no more than one paper." high concentration in certain The English course "Writing topics pertinent to daily life have Also imperative is an A-B grading courses to informal contacts among Short Fiction II" has attracted resulted in courses such as "Plants policy, and no prior knowledge or themselves, rather than any aid of Teaching the course this sem­those seeking a somewhat less and Human Affairs," and "En­specialized skill. These guidelines his part. ester is Fr. Joseph Hoffman, who rigorous approach to the composi­vironmental Chemistry." Unlike distinguish the authentic "jock" tion of fiction. Taught by Associate the standard science course,
"By the time they get to be attributed the popularity of "Sex 
course from those simply considered Professor Eugene Brzenk, the classes such as these are intention­
juniors or seniors, they know pretty and Marriage" among seniors to 
easy. much what courses they need. The their tendency to "put off the­course requires that each student ally made less difficult to provide write three brief pieces of fiction to 
"I have one test this semester," only thing that we do is to make ology" until their final semester. students with a basic knowledge of be discussed in class. the subject matter, resulting in
said Tully, noting that seniors felt sure that the courses they take lead In addition, he explained that some 
they "deserved a break after to a degree," said DeCicco. He of the students in the course were Another course described by rather high grades in most sweating it out" for almost four added that it was also made certain presently engaged, or contemplat­former students as "jock" is years. that the athletes' classes did not ing marriage. He conceded, how­"Public Speaking," taught by 
He added that many seniors had begin late in the afternoon, so as to ever, that some taking the course Associate Professor Leonard 
Sommer, who has reportedly
. already completed their academic conflict with practice . had no marital plans. 
announced in class that "anyone making less than a C in this course
•a,·sed to 19 should not have graduated from
1 1 high school." The class requires

F!roposed drinking age 
only the presentation of brief informal talks on various topics.
by Mark Lambert limit. high school students in Michigan While Collegiate Seminar is
Minnesota and Rhode Island since the .lower age limit was putThe age provision included in the have already raised the drinking into effect. required for all arts and letters current bill to lower the drinking b f th' students, the sections led by Pro­
· d fr age from 18 to 19 ecause 0 ts The bill is expected to be read
age in Indiana has been ratse om h fessor James Lee were sought after 
18 to 19. Bill SB 372 was amended issue. Minnesota as noted a before the committee, chaired by by many students because of the I. decrease in automobile accideni Sen. Rodney Pt"per, Democrat from 
before the Senate PubIic Po tcy light workload. Those in the class Few courses offered by the 
. k b among high school students as well Muncie, in approximately one
Commtttee 1ast wee y sponsor h 1 · th h 1 must only record their reactions to College of Business Administration 
1

Sen. Patrick Carroll, Democrat as a co o abuse m e sc oo s, week. The session will be attended each author, instead of composing could be considered "jock" in theattributed to the higher age. by Student Lobbyist Jerry Klingen­
from Bloomington. journals and papers as in the other usual sense, as most require work · According to a recent Indiana A bill to raise the drinking age berger and other Student Lobby 
seminars. on some type of project. However,Students Association (ISA) news from 18 to 19 is pending in representatives from Notre Dame. 
Perhaps the foremost haven for "Travel Management," taught byrelease: "Based on meetings with Michigan. State high school prin-They will be lining up more courses regarded as "jock" is the Associate Professor Edward Mayo, legislative leaders and responses to cipals polled were greatly in favor committee votes to increase the sociology department. One reason is regarded as "jock" by manyISA legislative surveys conducted of raising the drinking age to 19 to bill's chance of passage. The the department's offerings are in marketing majors. over the past three years, we take the problem out of the high Student Lobby has been aided by demand is that several professors Despite the willingness of many believe the bill stands a better schools. There has been an the amendment, Klingenberger have indicated a reluctance to give students interviewed to joke about chance of passage if it is amended increase in auto accidents and said. "It makes our bill a more low grades. "Sexuality and Law," courses they consider "jock," no to 19." _fatalities attributed to 18 year old feasible piece of legislation." "Social Problems," "Advanced one advocated their replacement. 
The ISA news release stated "if r:-------.,
going to 19 will improve the Need low-cost chances for a hearing on SB 372 transportation? I and possibly passage ofthe bill it is I W help I 
time to make this move." e can 
,.

This . amendment comes after 1 Contact: 1 RESPECT 
FOR 
. 


LIFE MASS 
Wednesday, February9 
5:00pm 

Sacred Heart Church 
Rev. William M. Lewers is celebrant 
Liturgy by ND Chapel Choir 


----~­

EDITORIAL BOARD
"*The Observer anindependentstudentnewspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's 
The Observer is published by students of the University of Notre Dame and St Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of either institution The news is reported as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions and letters are the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and letters are encouraged to promote the free expression of varying opinions on campus 
Box QBusiness Manager Tom Fronczak Notre Dame

Advertising Manager Mike Miller Photo Editor Tony Chifari Ind. 46556 
Tuesday, February 8, 1977 


How to Decide 
The LawS-chool completed on Sunday a symposium on the treatment of the terminally ill in light of the Quinlan case. Simultaneously, we have seen a minor furor over charges--shown to be ground­less--that dangerous genetic experiments are underway at ND. These two events sharply contrast the right and wrong approaches to what is becoming a serious problem: the use of new breakthroughs in biology and medicine. 
The Quinlan case dramatically pre­sented the question of how to use new medical technology that can keep a person "alive" long after any hope of recovery is gone. But this question and the broader one of euthanasia are only the beginning. "Recombinant DNA" experiments, such as were allegedly occurring at Notre Dame, may produce micro-organisms in the laboratory. Eminent biologists have predicted that it will someday be possible to manipulate human genes and to create clones--genetic duplicates of human indi­viduals. 
That someday is likely to be within the lifetimes of students now at Notre Dame. It will be our generation that will have to decide the complex legal, moral, philo­sophical and theological dilemmas arising from this new knowledge. How should we go about deciding? The two incidents of this past week provide an instructive contrast. 
On one hand we heard groundless and ignorant accusations about Prof. Erick­son's research. The accusing group, the Peoples Business Commission, made no attempt to check the facts. Instead, they resorted to wild charges and scare tactics that only obscure the real questions about the direction and use of scientific research. 
On the other hand we had a symposium bringing together experts in medicine, law, philosophy and theology to discuss the issues calmly. They did not solve the problems--solutions, if possible, are decades away. But they helped prepare a rational approach to solutions. 
The new discoveries have as much potential for good or evil as the discovery of nuclear power did. When it is our generation's turn to deal with that potential, we had better be prepared to decide reasonably and knowledgeably--not from fear and ignorance. 
Jock Courses: Friend or Foe? 
Jock courses are disgraceful to any 
university which prides itself on being a 
respectable institution. But as disgraceful 
as they are, they are nonetheless common­
place at every university, including Notre 
Dame. They are sometimes even 
necessary. 
Academic pressures are bountiful here. Competition is often fierce among students who sometimes employ "cutthrpat" tactics to get the few high grades given out by Mfhe professors. Because these grades are crucial to students who later become candidates for medical, law or graduate schools, the cutthroat competition can be easily rationalized. Jlt<:this.:fntext, the need for jock cour8eS" --elil · be better understood. 
Jock courses provide a comfortable refuge from otherwise competitive class situations, and offer the sought-after "A" without cutthroat tactics, providing a truly Christian atmosphere. Jock courses thus exemplify the academic aspirations of a Catholic university. Unfortunately, the professors of these courses are often admonished and chastised for being lenient with grades. 
However, the case made by any uni­versity administration hoping to weed out these courses is usually a good one. Grades are reflecti01.1s of student per­formance. If teachers insist on giving exceptionally high marks, poor perform­ance by any student can hardly be recorded and dealt with. The case against cutthroat competition brought up by compassionate jock-course teachers, however, is also a good one. Any attempt to resolve the conflict usually results in an impasse. 
Despite administration efforts at many universities to abolish jock courses or to remove the professors teaching them, jock 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiii P . 0 .Box Q iiiiiiiiii
Thomas O'Neil Dan Sanchez Chris Smith Gregg Bangs Val Zurblis Pat Hanifin Tim O'Reiley Bob Mader Maureen Flynn Marti Hogan Kathy Mills Barb Breitenstein Don Reimer Martha L. Fanning Fred Herbst Tom Byrne 
Editor-in-Chief Managing Editor Asst. Managing Ed. 
Executive Editor 
Executive Editor 
Editorial Editor 
Features Editor 
Exec. News Editor Campus Editor 
St. Mary's Editor 
News Editor News Editor Copy Editor 
Production Editor Sports Editor Contributing Editor 

however, is that no course should be 
_educationally wasteful. The professors of these courses, regardless of their opinions on grades, should constantly work to upgrade the quality of their courses. Educationally justified, jock courses can at best be tolerated by university admin­istrators and can save a student from wasting his or her time to get an "A." Further, they can provide the stimulating experience of being able to pursue knowledge without pursuing a grade. 



Oliphant~ 

Gwynn Family 
Expresses 

Gratitude 

To the Notre Dame Community: 
We can't begin to thank each of you for the support, comfort, love, and prayers you extended to our family after Terry's death on January 23, 1977. Instead, we hope you'll accept this letter as our thanks to you. 
We deeply appreciate all the effort and love that surrounded the Memorial Masses said for Terry on Thursday, January 27 and in Farley the following Monday. We es­pecially want to thank everyone who has contributed to the Logan Center Fund in Terry's name. One of Terry's greatest purposes in living was to help young, retarded 
or  handicapped  children.  Your  
generosity  will  help  this  work  
continue.  

Finally, we'd like to say a special thanks to Fr. Louis Putz and Sr. Jean Lenz for their presence with us in New Mexico as representa­tives of the University. 
We will all come, inevitably, to peace of mind in the knowledge that Terry is happy. Sharing our present grief with you has lessened our pain.
. 
With Much Love and Thanks, The Francis B. Gwynn Famlly Jim Watkins 


Student Body 
Congress 


Publicity Stunt 
Dear Editor: 
On February 3, 1977 Notre Dame's Observer was party to the type of corruption and suppression usually associated with Nixon era politics. On this date a Student Congress Meeting was called by Mike Gassman. 
The Congress was promised in .lctober and to be followed by regular meetings where endorse­ments and input would be sought. Instead the meeting was called only three weeks before the new elec­tions. I personally talked to most (over 8) members of the H.P.C. membership of the Congress. They were willing to refuse to vote endorsements because of Mike's failed commitment to impart mean­ing and regularity into the body. After the meeting several more agreed with my views. 
Unfortunately my views were not heard by the campus they were intended for rather Dave Riembach made as much a mockery of The Observer as Mike did of Student 
Congress. The tape of the meeting 
which The Observer has, reveals 
that there was no discussion as The 
Observer reports. 
The reason simply is . because 

Mike jo~ed, failed to ask for 
impressions, and allowed the "re­
ports" to turn into a comedy rather 
than "discussion". Mike did not 
ask for endorsement of his propo­
sals which makes the meeting 
simply a publicity stunt on confer­
ence. 
The issue of Cable T.V. is 

significant to the student body. Its 
significance does not lie in the need 
as much as in the $500,000 plus 
cost. Most people that I have 
talked to from the H.P.C. feel the 
program with its limited life ex­
pectancy is not worth a fraction of 
the cost. 
This might well have been pointed out or at least discussed if the forum were there. The tape of the meeting reveals it was not. Yet, Dave Rumbach's article leaves that impression. Dave writes ''the Congress also considered . . . " In reality the Congress as a represen­tative body did not exist, discuss, or consider anything. I believe the student body deserves to hear this. 
I also believe Dave owes an 

apology to me, the Notre Dame 
community, and himself for failing 
to report "as accurately and as 
objectively as possible." 
Tom O'Neill Pres. Dillon Ball 


Senior Fellow Sex Symbol 
Dear Editor: 
The move presently afoot to have Farah Fawcett nominated, or writ­ten in, for the honor of Notre Dame Senior Class Fellow reintroduces the controversial subject of sexual politics on this campus. I have often heard Notre Dame described as one of the most sexually mal­adjusted universities in this coun· try, and in the three years I h,ve spent here, I have generally-con­curred. The Farah Fawcett move­ment does, however, afford a different view of this situation then is normally heard in the early morning banter at Nickie's. 
If Farah Fawcett were to be nominated as a gag, or as a slightly irreverent affront to the Adminis­tration, it would at least be understandable. In fact, it would be no more harmful than the awarding of the Hasty Pudding Award. Unfortunately, this does not seem to be the case. 
Many students talk seriously of nominating this sexy air-head, who, regardless of her sensuality, nevertheless exhibits about as much acting ability as Mark Spitz. It goes without saying that Char­lie's Angel represents none of the intellectual seriousness or social concern which so many here claim to maintain. 
Why then is Farah Fawcett being nominated? Probably, she is being nominated for the same sexist reasons that made Brigitte Bardot a campus goddess in the 1950's. In our tame decade it is not surprising that the energies which were directed toward a variety of issues in the 60's should return to focus on the singularly !O!ternal crotch. 
What is surprising, is the short memories of many students here, who seem to have forgotten that between 1957 and 1977 there occurred a significant alteration in the state of the sexes, and that one off-shoot of that change has been the co-education of this University. To those who are so hell-bent on nominating Farah Fawcett let me ask this: would you be so exuberant if the women of this campus were to nominate Lee Majors, or, to push it a bit, how about Harry Reems? 
The fact of the matter is that sexism does not belong in the balloting for Senior Class Fellow. 
courses continue to exist almost uni­
WHEN 1liE ICE NiL~ HE ~BtY WOWf ~R A. ll-JING !* 
(Name withheld by request]

versally. The point that should be made, 

The prize tor best booth will be awarded Friday, Feb. 11. _ [Photo by Paul Clev~_g!_rj_ 

Juniors finalize plans for Parents Weekend 
by Greg Desio 

Junior Parer:ts Weekend at No­tre Dame will begin Friday, Feb. 25 with a full schedule of events and activities. 
On Friday, Feb. 25, from 2-8 p.m., there will be registration at the hotels and then at 8 p.m., a cocktail party for juniors and their parents will be given at the Athletic and Convocation •Center concourse. Bro. Just Paczesny , vice president of Student Affairs will speak and live entertainment by a jazz band will also be provided. 
Saturday, Feb. 26,at 9 a.m., col­
legiate workshops will be conduct­
ed. Professors from the various 
departments will be available to 
discuss their academic programs 
with parents. There will be indivi· 
tdual seminars for each major. 
At 1 p.m., the Notre Dame 
basketball team will play LaSalle. 
For those parents who did not 
respond soon enough to receive 
tickets for the game, there will be a 
slide show on student life in the 
library auditorium -shown contin­
uously from 1 to 5 p.m. 
At 6:30p.m., a mass for juniors 

and their parents will be celebra­
ted. 
Immediately following the mass 

will be the Presidential Dinner at 
Stepan Center. Buses will be 
available to transport people from 
Sacred Heart to Stepan. The key­
note speaker at the dinner will be 
university president, Fr. 
Hesburgh. 
On Sunday, Feb. 27 at 8:30a.m., 

a closing breakfast will be held at 
the North Dining Hall. The guest 
speaker will be Tom Pagna of Ara 
Associates, former Notre Dame 
assistant coach and co-author of 
Era of Ara. 
Tickets for the evt:nts will be 
mailed to parents on Thursday Feb. 
10. Further requests for tickets can be made until Thursday, Feb. 10, to Dennis Crowley at 8461 or Kathy Militello at 6772. 
Dennis Crowley, chairperson of the Dinner and Breakfast Commit­tee expressed enthusiasm about the weekend. "The response of the parents has been very good. People are coming from as far as Florida, Texas and New Mexico" There will be about 16Uu guests at the President's Dinner. Crowley also commented, "We tried to honor all seating requests, but it became more difficult as the later requests arrived." 
Crowley concluded that Junior 

Art exhibition 
Five art majors from Notre Dame 

are sponsoring an exhibit of their 
paintings, sketches and other art 
objects in the Isis Gallery on 
campus. The display, scheduled to 
close Feb. 9, is open weekdays 
until 5 p.m. 
Participating in the show are 

seniors John Bruns, Somerville, 
N.J.; Dennis Doran, Sylvania, O­
hio; James Jennewien, St. Louis, 
Mo., and Kevin O'Brien, South 
Bend. Patrick O'Brien, a sopho­
more, is also exhibiting art works in _the show 
Parents Weekend is an excellent opportunity for parents to meet their son's or daughter's room­mates and friends , other parents, and members of the faculty. "It's a chance for parents to get a feel for the spirit of the campus,'' he said, "not the rah-rah spirit of a football weekend, but the spirit of the students and the Notre Dame family." 
Tuesday, February 8, 1977 the observer 

Change in rules enhances odds of having a profitable Mardi Gras 
by Kevin M. Walsh above $25. 
. Staff Reporter Also, the prize awarded to the 
Amid a year -of changes in the best booth will be presented on the structure_and rules of Mardi Gras, first Friday of Mardi Gras rather raffle ticket sales are'being sold at than the last Friday to stimulate 
a record setting pace. more interest from the residence 
'There has been an amazing halls. response this year." said Clair For those wishing to deal at Boast, co-chairpersOn of -the raffle Mardi Gras, a dealer's card must committee. The record sale for be obtained. These cards can be Mardi Gras tickets is $16,50<}, but obtained by attending dealer's with a total of $16,030 so far this school, which will year, Boast is sure the record will _~~d_l!.~sd~:y!_ ~nd Thursdaybe broken. 
This year's Mardi Gras will feature several changes. In order to 
need posters in a 
broaden the scope of Mardi Gras, 

hurry?

backgammon, crap tables,-mice 
races and more wheels of fortune will be instituted. 
There are rule changes for many of the card games. In --blackjack games, any two-card combination of 21 is now an instant blackjack. Previously the rules required that 

I an ace appear with a face card for blackjack. Double down and split bets are still allowed, but five-card • • ® Charlies (a hand in which five cards lftSfy•prlftfStotal less than 21 wins) are not 
thewizoftheprintingbiz!
permitted. 
Incentives for larger bets have 100 -1_1 X1? po&tersalso been increased by raising the odds in hi-low games from two to Only $1 O.QO one to three to one, while in poker 203 N. Main 
games, the house thi~ ~ear-will ''SCliBend
collect lOo/o of all wmnmg pots~-,--~.-__!""_"'!__~--~---.....,~.-.;.;.-.... 
below $25, but only 5o/o of pots -.. 
ings at 7, 7:30, 8, 8:30 and 9:00 in the LaFortune TV room. 
AI O'Gorman, a member of the rules committee, stated, "Prospective dealers should obtain their dealer's cards as soon as possible, for only 2500 cards are distributed and people who wait until the last night to attend the school stand a poor chance of re~eiving a card." 

Fi h Shrimp "" -· ~ 
· '-"'~!/ & ­

. Chick-en \ "'..~-~-'· ChipS
.~' ,_

Krunch Pup --­
-·< Ch d 
· ~ · ow er 
~1

FREE refij;lls-.
' 

on all / ~ 
DRINKS • -~­[~~~~~~~~~~~;]
23 

NOTRE DAME STUDENT UNION & SUNSHINE PROMOTIONS PRESENT 
AND SPECIAL GUEST 
RICK DERRINGER MOND4Y, FEBRU4RY 28 7:30 P.M. NOTRE DAME A.C.C. Tickets: $6.50, $6.00 & $5.00 
ON SALE NOW AT A.CC BOX OFFICE. ROBERTSON'S SOUTH BEND and CONCORD M4LL. ST JOE BANK &All BRANCHES. FIRST BANK --M41N BRANCH ONLY THE fLKH4R1 TRUTH. NOTRE Cl4ME STUDENT UNION TICKET OFFICE. BOOGIE RI:CORDS JUST FOR 
THE RECORD. SUSPENDED CORD 1n ELKH4RT & GOSHEN and THE RECORD JOINT 1n NILES 

Tuesday, February 8, 1977
the observer 
Singer Stringer strums strings. [Photo by Paul Clevenger] 





NBC outlines finances for Moscow Olympics 
NEW YORK (AP)-The Nation­al Broadcasting Co., labeling the 1980 Moscow Olympics potentially "the biggest event in television history," disclosed plans Monday for 150 hours of coverage of the Games at a cost of upwards of $100 million. 
"This is probably the most ambitious television project ever undertaken,'' said NBC President Herb Schlosser. "It will involve the most massive array of people, technicians and equipment ever assembled for one event.'' 
NBC paid $85 million for rights to the Games, a figure which includes $35 million for the rights themselves and $50 million for technical facilities. And it will probably spend at least another $15 million in assorted other expenses. ABC paid $25 million for rights to the Montreal Games but NBC officials said ABC probably spent an additional $15 million or more in other costs. 
The network refused to say how much of the $85 million will be paid in advance. Sources have said the network would pay $20 million in 1977 and $30 million in 1978, but NBC declined to confirm or deny those figures. 
Asked how NBC would protect its investment if the Russians made new demands after the network had already paid millions of dollars up front, Schlosser admitted there was a gamble involved. 
"You take risks all the time in broadcasting," he said. "Bob Howard, president of NBC tele­vision and chief of the network's negotiating team reported to us his feeling that the Russians want this event to come off well." 
Schlosser said that, despite the high cost, NBC was projecting a profit. "We expect it to work out as a venture where this company will make money,'' he said. 
Of the proposed 150 hours of coverage--approximately ntne hours a day from the July 19 opening ceremonies through the Aug. 3 closing ceremonies--about 65 hours will be prime time. ABC televised about 75 hours of cover­age from Montreal last summer. 

The network said it would have about 300 people in Moscow during the Games and would disclose the names of its broadcasters at a later date. 
NBC also confirmed it will pay West German television producer Lothar P. Bock $1 million for his role in helping the network obtain the rights to the Games, and would also purchase three programs a year from Bock through 1981. These would be Russian entertain­ment or sports programs. 
Bock, who has worked with the Russians on many TV ventures in the past and has developed close ties with Moscow, joined the NBC negotiating team after CBS pulled out of the talks last month. He has been credited with a major role in securing the rights for NBC. 

Flu shots to resume? 
WASHINGTON (AP) -A panel of experts summoned to Washington because of an outbreak of A-Vic­toria flu in Florida told the secret­ary of health, education and wel­fare yesterday the nationwide mor­atorium on flu shots should be lifted. 
The group of 20 medical experts and scientists did not immediately tell Secretary Joseph A. Califano Jr. what kind of vaccination pro­gram they would recommend. But there was a consensus that some program should resume despite an increased threat of Guillain-Barre Syndrome, a rare but occasionally fatal form of paralysis. 
The national flu immunization program was suspended in Decem­her when an apparent statistical link was discovered between flu vaccinations and the rare paralytic 
The 


senior bar 
illness. 
The flu progran concentrated on immunizing people against A-New Jersey influenza, more commonly 
will be open known as swine flu, but the elderly and those suffering from chronic diseases were given shots that 
after the SMC
contained both swine and A-Vic­toria vaccines. Both swine and A-Victoria strains are classified as the most 
nior Women's Dinner severe forms of flu. A-Victoria was blamed for 11,000 deaths in an epidemic last year. There has been 

tonight from 8 -12 
no outbreak of swine flu this year although a few cases have been 
7 & 7's 

confirmed. 




Cold weather freezes jobs 
WASHINGTON 1..1'-~'1-Between 1.2 that freezing Arctic air would million and 1.57 persons -most of probably return "for at least the them in Ohio and New York -have following 2 to 3 weeks." been laid off their jobs because of It said some states were having the natural gas shortage, new problems distributing alternate federal and state reports indicate. fuels such as propane and light and 
A report given White House ·heavy fuel oils but there was no energy advisor James R. Schlesin­current indication of shortages to ger over the weekend shows gas­consumers. shortage unemployment in at least It also predicted that farmers 17 states, ranging from about 1,000 may suffer some production set­each in Mississippi and Wisconsin backs but concluded that "no to an estimated 250,000 in New significant fertilizer shortage is York and 550,000 to one million in expected this spring resulting from Ohio. The report is based on the gas shortage." estimates prepared by the Com­Meanwhile, the Federal Power merce Department and by state Commission reported an additional agencies. 555 million cubic feet of gas has 
The memo said weather fore­been obtained daily by interstate casters anticipated some easing of pipelines under provisions of the the cold wave this week but warned emergency natural gas act signed 
Ford:Should have met with Solzhenitsyn 
NEW HAVEN, Conn. [API • uate, urged the Carter administra­Former President Ford conceded in tion also to continue the U.S. effort a lecture yesterday he should have to insure human rights throughout met in Washington with exiled the world when the major powers Soviet author Alexander Solzheni­meet in Belgrade, Yugoslavia, in tsyn. August to re-examine the 1975 
"I think in retrospect it would Helsinki agreement. have been wiser for me to have met "I hope and trust that the with him in the Oval Office," Ford administration will be forceful in told a packed lecture room at Yale pushing the issue of human rights University. because that was an important, 
After controversy arose over integral part of the Helsinki agree­Ford's refusal to meet the dissident ment." Soviet author while he was in Washington, Ford extended a be­lated invitation but it was never accepted. 
"It was a logistic problem and I don't think it was adequately explained by the administration," Ford said. He said his schedule, which didn't have time for the meeting, should have been chang­ed. 
Solzhenitsyn is now living in Vermont. 
Ford opened a two-day lecture and discussion visit at the Ivy League university today with a lecture at a history class. The meeting was open to the news media but closed to the general public. 
Echoing the theme of his State of the Union address last month, the former president said, "The United States must have affirmative action in world history....Any retreat in that regard would be a mistake." 
Ford, a Yale Law School grad-by President Carter last week. 

But that additional supply repre­sents only about one percent of the total gas needed on a cold winter day -enough to help stave off the loss of service to homes and other top priority customers but not enough to end the shortages as long as cold weather persists. 
The FPC said some 380 million cubic feet of emergency gas was already flowing and the other 175 million had been authorized but had not yet started through the pipelines. 
The report to Schlesinger, citing forecasts by the National Weather Service, said relatively warm air was moving eastward, but the service "Does not expect this storm to alter, other than temporarily, the fundamental Western Ridge struc­ture which has been responsible for the extremely cold weather that has consistently been experienced by the eastern United States since last October. 
The National Weather Service currently expects the Western Ridge to reassert itself immediately following the passage of the Pacific storm, and to continue to direct arctic air toward the eastern U.S. for at least the following two to three weeks,'' the report said. 
The memo included a state-by­state breakdown of unemployment estimates, sometimes varying widely, gathered over several days last week from the Commerce Department and state agencies. 
The Commerce Department est­imates added up to some 1,321,000 unemployed, while the state esti­mates totalled 1,567,000, display­ing the wide range of uncertainty in all such figures. 
Enrollment cards duebyFeb.18 
The Office of Students' Accounts would like to remind all students that their advance enrollment cards must be returned before Feb. 18, 1977. 
Advance enrollment cards were mailed to all freshman, sopho­mores and juniors. If you did not receive a card, please come to the Office of Students' Accounts, 102 Administration Building and obtain one. 
It is necessary for all undergra­duate students who plan on return­ing to the University next year to complete the advance enrollment process by Feb. 18. 
The Social Commission presents 



Bruce 

Springsteen 
Wednesday Feb. 23 
Bus trip to Chicago Auditorium 
Tix go on sale tomorrow at S.U. Ticket Office 

PRICE $17.50 
(includes round trip &great seat) 
....~~:;;;~i;;~;~.:;;;~··················l 

Classified Ads 
Tell your Valentine and the world how you really feel! 
i Ads will be taken in the : Observer office Everyday i t until5, i !valentineSpecial: Up to lOwords for $1.00! i 



Carter nominates Admiral Turner to head CIA 
WASHINGTON (APj -Adm. Stansfield Turner, a Naval Acad­emy classmate of President Carter, will be nominated to head the Central Intelligence Agency, the White House announced yester­day. 
Turner, 53, is commander-in­chief of U.S. forces in southern Europe. 
Asked why Carter chose Turner, White House Press Secretary Jody Powell said, "The major reason is Carter's feeling that this is a person who has his complete trust." 
Theodore Sorensen, Carter's first choice for the spy post, withdrew his nomination last month in the face of Senate opposition. 
Carter informed the Cabinet about his selection Monday mor­ning, saying he never knew Turner as a midshipman, White Hl'use spokesman Rex Granum said. 
"He was so far ahead of us that we never considered him competi­tion or even a peer and I'm not exaggerating," Granum quoted Carter as telling the Cabinet. "I think you'll all be pleased with Stan Turner. I have never known a better military person." 
Granum said Carter described Hazardous icicles were removed from Walsh yesterday1 and Turner as "a superior number 1 gutters were cleaned to stop leakag~ into the dorm. T~e crew academic, a superb all-around ath­will be working around campus th1s _week to remove 1ce and lete" and a "five-striper," the top ;::: snow from halls and sidewalks. [Photo by Paul Clevenger] ;::; rank for a midshipman. ::::::::::=:::::::::!::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:::::::::::::::::::~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::!::: 
"I think as you meet him you will find him a military person who in the future could be the next George Marshall," a reference to ·the 
USW unites to select former Army chief-in-staff who became secretary of state under President Harry S. Truman, Carter 


successor to Abel 
told the Cabinet. 
PITTSBURGH[AP]~Oneofthe embarked on the unique Experi­Turner and Carter were mem­most bitterly contested labor elec­mental Negotiating Agreement,bers of the class of 1947 at tion campaigns in years ends today ENA, which bans nationwide steel Annapolis graduating in 1946 be­when the 1.4 million-member Uni­strikes in favor of binding arbitra­cause of the accelerated academic . 
ted Steelworkers· chooses a succes­tion of unresolved issues. 
program stemming from World sor to retiring President I.W. Abel. While the ENA covers only about War II. 
Heading the administration -one-third of union membership, it Turner finished first academical­backed' slate is Lloyd McBride, 60 a has become a hot election issue. 
ly in the class. Carter ranke_d ~9th. 
conservative union veteran pledged Sadlowski condemns it as a sellout. 
Powell said Turner's background to the USW's moderate policies. McBride generally favors ENA, but in both academic and military He faces 38-year-old Edward stresses its experimental nature. affairs was a factor in Carter's Sadlowski, a militant who says the Both candidates predict victory. decision. But Powell said there union has grown soft and too But if the past is any guide, was no inclination to look for a willing to accomodate corporation Sadlowski must do well in the steel military man or to look for a bosses. centers -Chicago, Cleveland, Pitts­military man or to avoid a military The election's outcome will af­burgh and Buffalo -where about man. fect not only the direction of the one-third of the membership is 
Powell said Carter was convinced union but may also have major concentrated. Turner would be able to divorce implications for the nation's econ­The other two-thirds of the himself from his naval orientation. omy. union, which includes such diverse The press secretary said he did not The USW is the largest unit of occupations as mushroom farm know whether a concern for the the AFL-CIO and often sets the workers and barbers, is generally reported naval buildup by the pattern for other unions. An considered to be pro-McBride. Soviet Union was a factor in the abrupt shift in USW policy could The official results of the election choice. have far-reaching impact in other will not be known for several 
Granum said Carter wants to industries. weeks. But unless they are introduce Turner 'to the Cabinet to ''As the steelworkers go, so goes extremely close, the winner should review the CIA's job and "the the labor movement; as goes the be apparent by Thursday. Each services it has to offer for members labor movement, so goes the candidate's headquarters will keepof the Cabinet." country,'' Sadlowski said recently.-an unofficial tally of votes in the 
"The CIA has a legitimate Under Abel, who can't run again union's 5,500 locals. 
responsibility not to deal just in war under union rules because he is The U.S. Department of Labor but to provide information that can over 65, the USW has grown in will provide technical assistance in result in peace," Granum quoted membership and increased its trea­conducting the election to guard Carter as telling the Cabinet. sury to $116 million. It also -against vote fraud. 
Is Someone Giving You t~e Hint for 



Valentine's Day? 
-

Why not look your best by having your hair styled at the best· ....... . 
ahe 


WifWianimer 
1637 LWW SO. BEND PH 232·6()22 -,._ _:..~ 
Tuesday1 February 8, 1977 the observer 7_ 
Business students offer income tax assistance 
It's time for filing income taxes tioned by the Internal Revenue again and business students at Service, it was reported. Notre Dame are offering their Assistance centers and hours of annual counseling program without operation this year include: North­charge to all heads of families with east Neighborhood Center, 803 incomes of $12,000 or less. From 40 Notre Dame Ave., Mondays, S-8 to 60 advanced students with p.m.; Southeast Neighborhood knowledge of latest changes in the Center, 416 Wenter, Thursdays, law are establishing weekly busi­S-8 p.m.; Clay Neighborhood Cen­ness hours at eight area centers ter, 54143 Burdette, Tuesday, S-8 through the Apri115 deadline date. p.m.; Hansel Neighborhood Cen­
The assistance program, origin­ter, 1045 W. Washington, Tues­ated in 1972, has helped several day, S-8 p.m., and Thursdays, S-8 hundred area residents each year p.m. Also, Meadowbrook Center, and has resulted in returns totaling 52792 Hastings, Wednesdays, 11 more than $100,000 that might a.m.-2 p.m.; La Salle Neighbor­otherwise not be claimed by the hood Center, 2910 Western Ave., taxpayers. Drs. Kenneth W. Milani Thursdays, S-8 p.m.; Senior Citi­and James L. Wittenbach of the zens Center, 604 E. Jefferson, Accounting Department in the Fridays, 10 a.m.-12 noon; LaFor­College of Business Administration tune Student Center, campus, supervise the program with the Mondays, 2-4 p.m., Wednesdays, assistance of certified public ac­2-4 p.m. countants in the South Bend area. 
Student volunteers with basic and advanced tax experience are selected from a group of more than Billiards deadline 150 business majors who offer their assistance to_ the project each year. The first match rounds of the Not one return of the thousands billiard tournament must be com­prepared to date has bPCil ques-pleted by Mon., Feb. 14. 

Classified Ads 
NOTICES Need ride to Illinois State University(Bloomington -Normal area} this Will teach you flute In your spare Friday, call Lisa. 4-4563. 
~"2::_~~~~_!~~-----w~~-;--;;;;;:;"to-~~-;~;;;s, 
Iowa for weekend. Call Dave, available for parties, concerts, for­The Neon Wilde Band: now 
288-9768. mals, etc. Call7996 9.5 or 277-3448 after 5. 
Wanted -will pay good bucks for used desk and double bed. Call Papers professionally typed. Tele­
Dave. 277-4855. phone evenings 272-8308. 
Need ride to Cleveland any weekend Used books. BOOK BARN. 1 mile 
Call Fran 6865. north of Notre Dame. 272-5520. 
Need ride to Detroit Friday, Feb. 11. Accurate, fast typing. Mrs. Donoho Call Joan 6841. 232-0746. Hours --8 am to 8 pm. 
FOR SALE 1 day walt. 1 percent Interest. Due MORRISSEY LOAN FUND. $20-150 
in 30 days. LaFortune Basement. 4 fur coats -Mouton lamb, Beaver, M-F. 11:15-12:15. 
Mink, Muskrat. Call 291-2258. 
Tickets for the Feb. 23 Bruce Springsteen and the E Street Band PERSONALS concert at the Auditorium Theatre in Chicago are now on sale at the River Swimmers: If you live off campus 
City ticket outlets. Just for the and want to form a team for the Feb. Record (100 Center) and Boogie 18 lnterhall meet, contact Mike Records (College Square). Villani at 287-4898. 
The Mixology and Bartending Baby Cakes, couse taught by Philip Volpe in the I hope you're thinking about me Free University Program will be today, because I'm milling you! given this Wednesday, February 9 Mickey at 7:00pm in 127 Nleuwland. 
Dear Blue Eyes, I'm so excited about this ·Friday. I FOR RENT can hardly walt. 354 will never be 
the same! Two bedroom house to rent. LDve you! Summer and or school year. 1012 Princess Eddy St. $120 mo. plus utilities. 
Call Oddies Harris at 232·8563. Check out the Village Inn's Bucket 
Brigade. CH ickory Rd. only). Completely furnished houses rang­Membership entitles you to: ing from two to seven bedrooms 1 bucket of beer (2 pitchers}, 
available for summer or next Sep­3 $1.00 off coupons for 16 inch pizza. tember. Call 234-9364 Mrs. Hum­1 personalized Metal Bucket to hang burger. permanently from _our ceiling with 
your name and date of membersh lp. 5 bedro~;~,s. 1 and one half baths, All for only $5.50. furnished house, walk to campus, renting for summer and or fall Call Arne . Happy Birthday! 
259-7448 after 5:00 pm. You wouldn't want to be In Paris 
would you? W aid to school . 5 bedroom house In M good condition. Rent summer by room or entire house in fall. 1014 N. A sincere thanks to all the great Eddy -reasonable. Call 233-2-613 guys on second and third floor 
after 5:00 pm. Stanfrod for all their help on Friday night. We really appreciated it! Denise, Elaine, Kathy and LOST AND FOUND Michelle 
Found -set of GM car keys In front Minnesota Mamma ­
of Flanner. Call Mike 1598. 1can't help it . I can't resist your 
charm, your beauty , your power -­Do you have my green coat? 1 have HELP!!! yours. LDst at an off campus party ???? last Saturday night. Call 5128 Cat SMC}. Pat, 
Good Luck, Gold Timex watch with blue face LDts of LDve, . and gold band; it Is a calendar The Basement Girls of Lyons. 
watch with day of month only; If found Call Brian 283-3793. OAT-ANT-OAT-ANT. 
datantdatantdatant.... LDst -one pair of glasses at SMC after Second City on Sat. night. Call Good luck Pat, we're all behind you I 
288-7354. The Wild Women of Lyons Basement. 
WANTED Dear Chicago-type dresser from 
OakBrook, Wanted: Rides to Ft. Lauderdale for Get your head together because break. Call Brian 1589 or 1516. I'm your bestest Buddy! 
LDve and Kisses Need a ride to Ft. Lauderdale for Prepy spring break. WIll share driving and expenses. Call Pat 1514. Bill McManus­Mike Thomas­Need two GA tix to So. Carolina 
Mark Klein-game. Call after 6 pm • 288-0088. Good Luck Bengals · Deck Need ride to Chicago Feb. 11. (Friday}. Call Patty 6739. Congratulations Debbie! 
We know you'll make a great Need housemate for 0-C. $60 a lawyer. _ month and utilities 289-6929. The Lemon Babies 
Wanted -used calculator, full To the turtle on 4th floor Morrissey · function. Call Tim 3578. I'll crawl In your shell any time!! 
the observer Tuesday, February 8, 1977 




ND stabs Musketeers 
by Fred Herbst Sports Editor 
What can a team do when they're ahead by 30 points in a game and in no danger of losing? 
"Just play it out, there's not much more you can do," according to Notre Dame head coach Digger Phelps. "We just try to do things the best we can and play with intensity." 
Phelps' crew had the opportunity to do just that last night as they crushed the Musketeers of Xavier in the ACC 94-63. 
The issue was never in doubt as the Irish scored off the opening tip 

Basketball Top Twenty 
The Top Twenty teams in the Associated Press college basketball poll, with first-place votes in paren­theses, season records and total points. Points based on 20-18-16­14-12-1 0-9-8-7-6-S-4-3-2-1. 
1. San Fran (51) 23-0 1,115 2. UCLA (6) 18-2 1,009 3. Kentucky 16-2 800 4. Wake Forest 18-2 763 5. Michigan 17-2 606 6. Louisville 17-2 585 7. Alabama 17-2 425 8. Minesota (1) 16-1 405 9. Marquette 14-3 355 10. Ne-LV 18-2 306 11. Tennessee 16-3 275 12. Cincinnati 16-3 254 13. Arkansas 19-1 245 14. N. Carolina 15-4 183 15. Clemson 17-3 116 16. Providence 18-3 85 17. Syracuse 18-2 68 18. Arizona 16-3 59 19. Detroit 18-1 55 20. VMI 18-1 27 and never relinquished the lead. The Musketeers played more like Mouseketeers as Notre Dame ran off streaks of six, nine and ten unanswered points in the first half enabling them to breeze to a 44-24 halftime advantage. 
The Irish so thoroughly domina­ted the opening half that Xavier didn't reach double figures as a team until only 8:34 remained. By that time Notre Dame had rolled to a 29-10 lead. With 3:21 to play in the half, and the Irish supporting a 44-16 bulge, SWAT entered the game and finished up the half. 
"It was important for us to play with intensity in the first half," Phelps remarked. "We had the strategy of getting out early and holding their momentum down, while keeping ours up." 

Dave Batton paced Notre Dame in the first half with 12 points. Duck Williams added 11 while Bruce Flowers chipped in eight. 
Batton also led the team in rebounding in the half with five. Flowers added four caroms. 
The half was marred for the Irish when Tim Healy fell to the floor injuring his back. The extent of the injury was not fully known, but it isn't believed to be too serious. Healy's status for Wednesday's game is not known. 
Notre Dame continued to pour it on in the second half, building leads as large as 35 points before coasting to victory. 
Led by Flowers' 21 points, the Irish placed five players in double figures. Batton had 18 markers, Williams 15, Paterno 12 and Knight ten. 
Batton led the way on the boards Batton also blocked two shots as 

for the  Notre  Dame  cagers  with  
nine  rebounds.  Flowers  and  
Paterno each had eight.  

he played one of his better games 
of the season. "Now that we're 
coming down to the end of the 
season I have to do more," he said. 
''The team needs me to rebound a 

bit more and start the fast break. It 
would help if I could score a little 
bit more too.'' Batton, who has 
been struggling with a bad back, 
appears to be healthy once more. 
The win brought Notre Dame's , record to 13-5 and was their fifth in 
a row. Xavier fell to 6-12 on the 
season. 
Holy Cross will invade the ACC 

Wednesday night, and the 
Crusaders enter the contest with an 
18-2 slate. Phelps is making sure 
that his team doesn't take Holy 
Cross lightly and he hopes that the 
Notre Dame student body won't be 
guilty of the same crime. 
"I want to make sure that the 

students know what we're up 
against," he stressed. "Holy 
Cross is 18-2 and we need the 
students juiced up." 

Hockey ducats still available 
Hockey tickets are still available for the North Dakota and Denver home series. There are only a 

limited amount of tickets left for 
the Friday night contest against 
Wisconsin. Tickets may be pur­
chased from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. at Gate Ten of the ACC. 
*Observer 
Sports 
MINNEAPOLIS (AP) -Steve Grote drilled abaselinejump shot to snap an 80-80 tie with one minute, 33 seconds left and then made a key steal in the final minute to give fifth-ranked Michigan an 86-80 Big Ten victory over eighth-ranked Minnesota Monday night. 

The victory catapulted the Wolverines, now 11-1 in the Big Ten and 18-2 for the season, into the driver's seat in the league's title race. Minnesota dropped to 7-2 in the league and 16-2 overall. 
Phil Hubbard led Michigan with 23 points, John Robinson added 20, Rickey Green had 14, and Tom Staton and Grote scored 10 apiece. 
Mike Thompson, who scored 18 points in the second half, and Ray Williams each notched 20 for Minnesota and 6'10" freshman Kevin McHale put in 18. 
Bill Hanzlik: 'an extra dimension' 
by Frank LaGrotta Sports Writer 

The words "big man" have become an integral part of modern basketball terminology. Towering above everyone on the floor, the big man clogs up the middle. He blocks a shot that otherwise means a sure two points for the opposi­tion. He wins the crucial tip-offs and he scores points; whether on the long jumper or the tough tip-in. 
Under the boards, he is indispen­

sible, grabbing rebounds and mo­
ving the ball down the court. 
Standing at 6-7, Freshman forward 

Bill Hanzlik readily fits this des­
cription. Irish Assistant Coach, 
Dick Kuchen, responsible for re­
cruiting Hanzlik, is quick to point 
out the big freshman's potential. 
"Billy is the type of player that adds an extra dimension to a team," remarks Kuchen. "He's a very well-conditioned athlete with great mobility and he handles the ball extremely well. For a young player he possesses great flexibility in that he can play at ei\her the forward or guard position. He's got a great personality wifu the 
desire and ability to learn quickly. 
As his career progresses, he'll be 
an outstanding player." 
Hanzlik sees his role on the team as a sparkplug. 
"When I'm in the game," Hanzlik comments, "I try to make something happen, whether it's forcing a turnover, grabbing a rebound or whatever. I'm not an extremely physical player, so I try to out-finesse my opponent and cause him to make a mistake." 
A native of Beloit, Wis., Hanzlik tallied 20 points and 11 rebounds a game his senior year at Beloit High School, a performance that resulted in his unanimous selection as Big Eight Conference Player of the Year, and led anxious college recruiters to his door. The offers were plentiful with schools such as Michigan, Stanford, Marquette and Indiana . courting th~ high . 
school star with hopes that he would bring his talent to their basketball floor. Hanzlik found his decision to come to Notre Dame relatively easy. 
"One thing I wanted to avoid was a big campus," Hanzlik re­calls. "I was looking for a small school where the people were really close. I was also looking for a school with a good engineering program and one reasonably close to home so my parents could come and see me play. Notre Dame fit that description perfectly.'' 
As far as basketball, Hanzlik is 'lery impressed with the program at Notre Dame. He expressed sincere admiration for Coach Phelps and his staff. 
"I really like his modern style of coaching," admits Hanzlik, "and the way he and Coaches Nee, Kuchen and McLaughlin handle the team. They really know the X's and O's of basketball. On a personal level, Coach Phelps is one ofthe nicest men I've ever met. He has great personality and he relates to young people very well." 
Hanzlik notices major differen­ces between high school and col­lege basketball. One area where this is especially evident is the way the Irish prepare for a game. 
"Practices at Notre Dame are very organized and strictly control­led in that we have a certain amount of time set aside for every aspect of our game," Hanzlik explains. "We begin every prac­tice with a series of conditioning exercises prepared by our trainer Arno Zoske. I think this is very beneficial as it helps cut down on muscle pulls and sprains. After that we do some full-court work to loosen up our legs and then we spend a certain amount of time on offensive strategy and defensive play. . 
''Two days before a game we will begin to prepare for the specific team that we will face," he continued. "Every team that we play is thoroughly scouted by our staff.. and their reports are very 
important ot our game preparation. 
At the end of practice we go 

through a series of running drills 
that Arno sets up which includes 
sprints and running the arena 
steps. After practice I'll stay 
behind and work on shooting for 
about 30 minutes. I really enjoy 
practice. I look forward to it. .. es­
pecially when we're winning." 
After dinner, Hanzlik finds him 

self back in the role of a student 
and he spends most of the evening 
with his books. He finds the work 
challenging. but rewarding. 
"Classes at Notre Dame are 

really tough," admits Hanzlik, 
"especially Emil's chemistry class. 
I really don't mind the work 

though. I've learned quite a lot my 
first semester." 
Finding themselves at 7-0 at one 

point this season, the Irish present­
ly hold an 13-5 record. Hanzlik 
indicts turnovers as leading to the 
Irish losses. 
"We started the season with a 

couple of big wins and th ings 
really looked weat, .. the 6-7 fresh­
man said. 'Then we lost Dice 
Martin inthe Indiana game and that 
hurt us a lot. We lost a few games 
to teams like Princeton and Villa­
nova, teams we could have easily 
defeated. It was at this point that 
turnovers, something we had wor­
ked all year to prevent, really 
started to mount. I think that's 
what hurt us the most." 
However, Hanzlik is confident 

that the Irish have turned things 
around. He cites the loss to UCLA 
as the turning point for the team. 
"We played extremely well -against UCLA and I really beleive 
we could have won that game. We 
showed we could come from begind 
agaisnt a good team and that really 
helped us regain our confidence.' 
The Irish, currently riding a 

four-game winning streak, face the 
happy prospect of I?laying 7 of their 
last 11 contests m the friendly 
confines of the A.C.C. Hanzlik 
views this as an obvious advantage 
for the Irish. ., 
"Playing at home is a big plus 

for us," he reveals. "The fans at 
Notre Dame are second to none. 
When I hear the people cheering I 
feel like I can't let them down. It 
really fires the team up." 
Hanzlik is very optimistic about stated. "We're playing iwth the intensity that we displayed at the beginning of the season. We're executing much better, playing well offensively and defensively and I'm confident that we'll be there at the end of the season.'' 
the  Irish  chances  for  an  NCAA  
playoff bid.  
"I  think  we'll  get  one,"  he  

According to Hanzlik, this sea­son is only the beginning. He forecasts a bright future for the Irish. 
"We've got a lot of great talent on the team that will be returning next year," Hanzlik points out. "We've got a great coaching staff, and, with a good recruiting year to 
the taam with greater 
will ha~ a team that will 
the nation's .:-."-'=-­

Personally Hanzlik anticipates making a contribution to the bright Irish future he predicts. 
"I think, realistically, I have a chance to start my sophomore year," he said. "However, I've got to improve a lot both during the remainder of the season and over the summer. I plan to work out lifting weights to increase my stren~th while concentrating on shootmg technique and other as­pects of my game." 
The "big man" ... the guy that can make it happen. By no means an easy role to fill; but freshman Bill Hanzlik will be working hard to do just that. With his obvious physical attributes and his intense desire to make full use of them, it's safe to assume that he'll be successful. 
Bill Hanzlik has made the adjustment to college basketball well eno1,1gh to become a vital element on.Dig-ger. Phelp~' club. , ' · · !Photo by kevin Walsh] 



