SMC Doard criticizes Observer reporting 

The 0 
server 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's Monday, November 7, 1977 Vol. XII, No. 43 
by Anne Bachle 

Dissatisfaction with St. Mary's coverage in the Observer prompted several SMC Board of Governance members to speak out strongly at last Thursday night's meeting. 
One commissioner noted, "We agree our HPC meetings don't always deserve to be on the front page, but we pay for the paper as much as anyone else, and there's no reason why St. Mary's articles are always in the back pages of the paper.'' 
lot of other joint activities we do,'' agreed Senior Class President Nan­cy Mogab. 
Lack of coverage of St. Mary's sports was cited by Sports Com­missioner Amy Hartzell as further evidence of the problem, although Hartzell said she has not spoken with the women's sports editro about it. 
Rukavina said she'd like to see· more photographs from St. Mary's, more extensive coverage of meet­ings, and more fr~quent mention of St. Mary's in articles on activities 
The scanty coverage of St. involving both schools. Mary's United Way Campaign, as Some board members said theycompared with that of Notre had directed their complaints to 
Teamsters charge ND
Dame's was an obvious example of members of the Observer staff, but St. Mary's lack of representation in had received no satisfactory action. the,paper, board members felt. In other business, board mem­
"We raised three times the bers made plans for a special 
with unfair labor practices · 
amount of money we did last Thanksgiving celebration to be year,'· pointed out Student Body held Tuesday, Nov. 22. Social by Mike Ridenour One of three alleged violations The Teamsters' charge also 
President Mary Rukavina, ''but Commissioner JoAnn Baggiano in­Staff Reporter occured last Oct. 5, according to mentions that the University 
there was only one small article formed the board that the coffee­the document, when the law flrm (through University President Fr. about it. It was an important event shop, "Charley's Place," would be Theodore Hesburgh's letter to the
Teamsters Local364 has filed an representing the University 
at St. Mary's, yet the Observer open with student entertainment announced that the groundskeep­faculty and students on Oct. 14)
Unfair Labor Charge against Notre 
coverage did not reflect this." . this Friday night, and Me Candless Dame in connection with the ers would be permanently laid off .. had admitted that they handled an The article on the Senior Class Hall President Teresita Valdivia organizing.effort several years ago 
attempt to unionize being made by A decision to subcontract grounds­
trip . was also mentioned as an announced that a square dance in 21 groundskeepers. keeping work was announced while among other employees by "simply example of coverage which slighted· the Angela Athletic Facility will the groundskeepers were attempt-subcontracting the work and elimi­
Filed last Oct. 31,.-the Teamsters' 
St. Mary's nating the individuals as employ­
also be helq this Friday evening. charge alleges that the University ing to unionize. . "Over a fourth of the seniors on The Founders' Day Essay Contest violated, in several instances, a After the decision to lay off the ees of the University." 
the trip were from St. Mary's," does not end until Nov. 23, section of National Labor groundskeepers was declared a Lawrence said that the decision
the 

noted Social Commissioner JoAnn several years back draws the
Academic Affairs Vice-President Relations Act "by interfering in the mistake by the University, "the Baggiano. "But of the nine people Cathy Hedges reported, and mon­free choice of the groundskeepers subject of subcontracting was left attention of the National Labor 
mentioned in the article, none were etary prizes will be awarded to the to choose a labor organization to as a cloud over the organizational Relations Board because it shows from St. Mary's. They didn't even best three essays. Any aspect of represent them," explained Mike activities of these employees," the that the University "did the same contact our class president." St. Mary's College past, present, thing before." "Hthere's a history
Lawrence, Assistant Business Teamsters' charge stated. 
''There has been little or no or future may be considered in the "This 'cloud' was economically ofthis pattern, then we need to get 
Representative of Teamsters Local 
mention of St. Mary's in any of the essay. Students should contact 364. threatening," Lawrence claimed. rid of it," Lawrence remarked. 
coverage of the Senior Trip, or in a Hedges for more information. Philip Faccenda, General Coun­sel for the University countered, "The employees then were union
Summer sales not perfect members to begin." He added, "We are going for efficiency, ways of cutting-the ·costs so we don't have to raise tuition. So we are
Basketball tickets cause controversy 
going to people who have expertise in a fleld." by Tony Pace from the fans of this area, but once plemented a down payment pur­has a waiting list for about 40 more. Another violation by the Univer­
sity, according to the Teamsters'Staff Reporter we knew the students' demand was chase system for 1976-77 season Those who. did purchase tickets charge, was the Oct. 26 decision to
equally great, we had to place a basketball tickets. But, he said, during the summer sale were not 
Pointing to an ever-increasing subcontract the work by 215
moratorium on new season tickets this posed new problems. "70 to given an exact seat location. This 
demand for Notre Dame season efnployess at the dining halls and
for the general public. We have 80 tickets were never claimed last is because Busick felt that most 
basketball tickets from South Bend campus cafeterias. 
fulfilled the student demand for tic­fall. Some students who made a students would prefer to sit with 
area fans, Ticket Manager Mike "The employees working in
kets and, for the first time, the down payment in the spring de­their friends. 
Busick explained that student bas­these areas were actively discus­
whole home basketball schedule is cided they did not want the tickets Seat locations will be assigned on 
ketball tickets were sold over the sing and exercising their ... rights
sold out," Busick continued. after all. Others just never claimed a flrst come, flrst served basis. The 
summer in order that all students and this is another example of the 
Another reason for the summer the tickets, not even for a refund of tickets will be distributed this 
who wanted season tickets would University determined to get
sale was the number of complaints their downpayment." Tuesday through Friday at the
receive them. people off of their payroll when
Busick received from students who These problems led Busick to ACC. Busick remarked, "We will
''The main reason for the sum­they start considering Union repre­
were financially strapped in either devise the present system. Stu­start with the closest seats to the 
mer sale was that we had to know sentation,'' the document charged. 
the spring or the fall. "Near the dents received their ticket appli­floor in the best section and move
what the demand for tickets among The Teamsters' charge also
end of the spring semester," cations during the summer months right down the line. The first guy in 
the students would be," said alleges that ''the subcon~g
Busick observed, "many students and returned them, if they desired line is going to get what we beheve
Busick. ''Student demand has philosophy and practices! of the
are running out of money. When tickets, with paymentin full. "This is the best seat in the house."
fluctuated during the past few University are designed to impede
they return in the fall, they have to system," said Busick, "is the At this time, students may also years and we had to pinpoint it purchase books and supplies." easiest in terms of payment. With purchase tickets to the games and stop organizing activities 
early for this season." among Univ~rsity employees and
It was ,because of these financial students working during the sum­against Mississippi, St. Joseph's,.
''There has been a great demand have had the effect of placing fear 
considerations that Busick im-mer, they can try to flt the cost of and the Russian national team. 
· in employees that they will losethe ticket into their budget or, they The first two games were not their job ifthey consider a Union."
can ask their parents to lend them included in the student ticket Faccenda reacted by saying,
the money." because they fall during the "Once again the Teamsters are"One drawback of this system," Thanksgiving and Christmas trying the case in the newspaper.
he continued, ''is that transfer breaks respectively. The Russian They can do that, Notre Damestudents who were accepted late game was not included because it can't. We must try the case indid not receive the mailing. Also, was only recently added to the court."
the postal service itself is not schedule. 
The last violation charged in theperfect. I know of these problems Generally, Busick likes the stu­document took place on Oct. 17. Itand I tried to find tickets for those dent basketball ticket situation at was alleged that the University is
students who came to me early in Notre Dame. "Students are verythe semester and said they wanted important to us here. Approx­"trying to buy off its employees." them." Thus far,-Busick has imately 45 percent of our arena, The charge centers . around the procured season tickets for those which is sold out for the first time wage increases for Jan. 1, 1978, 
approximately 200 students and he · [Continued on page 2]. plus the fringe beneflt improve­ments effective July 1, 1978. 
Lawrence claimed, "This is the first time wage increases have been announced for Jan. 1 instead of July 1, which is the beginning of the University fiscal year. The purpose is to discourage the employees from unionizing. The intent of the wage increase, pos­sibly, is in effect a bribe." 
Faccenda replied, "The reason for the wage increase is obvious, but I cannot elaborate since it's for the court not the newspaper." 
The hearing for the Unfair Labor WEEKEND CONCERTS: The ACC was the scene this weekend Charge has not been set. But as 3 performers graced the south dome. Bob Hope and joey Faccenda stated that a hearing on Heatherton entertained a crowd which included many parents the Charge is not an immediate and alumni on Friday night. Saturday, Crosby, Stills and Nash worry. "We are so far away from were forced to play 3 encores by a tumultuous gathering.[Photos the point of a hearing that it's bv Greg Trzupek.] funny. About one out of ten that are flied actually occur," he said. 

Monday, November 7, 1977
the observer 

On Campus Today _ __..._. 
4 pm lecture "recent work of the architecture collaborative and the future of architecture," james burlage with architecture collab­orative. cambridge, mass., sposored by the arch. dept., arch. bldg. aud. 
4 pm civilisation film series "grandeur and obedience," spons. by bus. and econ. dept., carrol hall, smc, no charge. 
5: 0 pm french club dinner meeting, faculty dining room, south dining hall. 
7 pm career workshop skill identification with leslie wilson and betsy twitchell, spon. by smc career development cenet, regina north basement 
7:20pm duplicate bridge ladies of nd, faculty, sta~f duplicate bridge, university club. 
7:30 pm lecture clark mcclelland, ex-nasa official, will speak on ufo's spon. by suac,lib. aud. 
perspectives in philosophy lectures "rules vs. virtues,"
8 pm prof. alasdair macintyre, boston upiv., spon. by philosophy dept., galvin life aud., open to the public. 
8 pm concert the rotterdam philarmonic orchestra, spon. by smc performing art series, o'laughlin aud. $5 ($3 stud) call4-4176 for reservations. 
9 pm senior bar night for cap members and faculty, alumni-senior club. 
·Weather~' 

• . ,.4 Mostly cloudy and a little cooler today and tomorrow morning, but becoming partly sunny tomorrow afternoon. There is a 30 percent chance of occasional rain today with less than a 20 percent chance of drizzle tonight and tomorrow morning. Highs in the upper 60's today and around 60 tomorrow. Lows tonight in the upper 40's. 

SMC Regents approve new library facility 
by MoUy Woulfe 
The resolution to construct a new library was unanimously approved by the St. Mary's Board of Regents at a meeting held Oct. 21. Oth~r resolutions passed were the esta­blishment of a campus police department, a financial plan for 1978-79, and the agreement that the Sisters of the Holy Cross will donate back to the College the annual lease payment for next year. 
Kathleen Rice, dean of Student 
Affairs, commented that the pre­
sent library "lacks space and 
general comfort. "There's no 
lounge area, she explained. 
John Duggan, president of St. Mary's remarked, "We're so crovdednow we don't have room to put all our books on the shelves." He added that the new library will 
be four times larger than the 
current one and "there will be 
comfort.able study rooms, smoking 
areas, display cases, and audio 
visual and rare book rooms." 
According to Duggan, architects have suggested two possible sites for the library: south of Lemans or the present parking lot between LeMans and Regina. 
A fund drive is being planned to 
raise five million dollars to cover 
construction costs and two million 
dollars for a library endowment. 
Duggan expressed the hope that 
the money will come from "mostly 
alumnae." "They are the primary
supporters of the College. They're our main hope, Duggan said. 
"We'd like to raise the money 
;~~~~?, a few years--maybe one 
The Committee on Development
has rec:ommended to the Board that the Collegeundertakeanannual capital fund drive rather than a 
traditional capital campaign. 
Board members also divided into groups to discuss aspects of stu­dent life and workshops for stu­
dents. "Our group talked about 
WHEN YOU. NEED QUALITY PRINTING IN AHURRY •. 
CALL THE BEST 



the start of an alcoholic awareness program," stated Rice. "It would consist of films, followed by dis­cussions, young speakers that the kids can relate to and pamphlets. 
~'@~lJLI0'8"'] 
)now serving delicious :) 
i!t:::::::;:;:;:;:;:;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::!!li 
!~!~f-4{~\\.~{~l~--~f/l~~!~! 



~=~=:~~~::;::''';;· ji 
(your room piping hot, phone  ~~~~  
I  !3~~~~:i -.toys  I  
(  4 pm -1 weekends  ~~~~  

::!;::::::::::::::::::::;.;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:;:;:;:::::::::::::::::::: 

ph. 277-3355 


L':JPROqRam 
· 

,..  
~  1978 -1979  
~­ St. m~ny'sQK  Cott~r..e ~"f  
ltlw••  InfORmation ~ppllc~tlons  

The purpose of the program would be to help students who wish to drink alcohol to do so responsibly.'' 
The Board consists of twenty-six trustees, including the SMC presi­dent, Sisters of the Holy Cross, AI umni,. and businesspersons. 
New members introduced at the October meeting were Mary Rukavina, president of Student Government; Joseph Fahey, Jr., chairman of the Board and presi­dent of the State National Bank of Connecticut; Richard Nash,Jr., president of Nash Realty; Franklin Schurz, editor and publisher of The South Bend Tribune; and Mary Ann Heaton Spitters, a 1949 gradu­ate of St. Mary's and a former member of the Alumnae Board. 
The board will meet again the second week of February and before graduation in May. 
The Observer Is published Mon­d•y through Frkl•y exc»pt durlnt eum •nd v.aartlon periods. Tile 
Observer Is published by the studenh of Notre D•me •nd S•lnt M•rv's College. Subscriptionsm•v be purdl•secl for 120 per ve•r (S 1 0 per semester) from The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre D•rne, lndlene 46556. Second d•ss post•t• peld, Notre D•me, 
lndl•ne, 46556. 
. The Observer Ia • member of the AIIOCieted Prell. All repro·dudlon rlghta ere reserved. 

u  u  
" CaRROll hall  maoeteva BUilOmq  
W€0n€SOay 9 nov. 1977  7:oopm  

,_-Aimarily a Sophorrore A'ogram Juniors rn~st have pemission of department chainnan 
Buy all your Tennis needs at Discount Prices lowest prices on racketball, handball, and squash needs 
RAQUETBALL RAQUE~ SALE! 

321 S. Notre Dame Mon-Fri 9-6 Sat. 9-4
233-8712 
L..-------------------------~ 



---.~.~----~------------------~··~;;~.· --~--~~--~~~~~~~.. 
·, 
Monday, November 7, 1977 
the observer 
3 


Lomba Penn duplicates ND problem 
unions."
encts su 
union was incidental to Penn's
by Kevin Walsh 

The Gazzette reported that Uni­
action, for the idea of contracting
Senior Staff Reporter 

NEW YORK [AP]· There'll still versity officials did not take the · be a New Year's Eve this year, but ¢h~b~~i#• M•pd.()n; Q'lri;~tq~i,plis: housekeepers has been considered union's reputation lightly. In it won't be the same for ~ns of In a situation similar to that of 21 since 1975. The workers were August, administrative offices at 
an outside firm to replace the 

Notre Dame groundskeepers,
millions of American and informed of this possibility in the school were dispersed. The 
housekeepers at the University of
Canadians· for the first time since January, 197&: cashier's office was moved to a spot 
Pennsylvania were dismissed last 
it

1929 Guy Lombardo won't lead his<·•h···ib·~:~i~~*i~~1t~~~g~#tt~t;,,\~ia'Jr~l Gerald Robinson, executive di­on campus where had . easier 
Aug.8 as a result of what
Royal Canadians in ''auld · access to the Brink's truck pick up
rector of Personnel Relations,

Teamsters Union officials claim is 
claims that two meetings were which is at the school's hospital.
s~h~ creator of ''the sweetes'1 tr·· •••.•·fj~'!l~~?$t··v;~l~ ~~~a{littj~i~! an attempt to prevent unionization 
arranged by Penn and the Team­Such precautions were later
of the workers.
music this side of heaven'' died· sters to discuss alternatives to the found to be unnecessary, but Penn 
According to the October issue of 
Saturday night in Houston's use of outside firms before the has had problems with such ser­
the Gazette, the University of
Methodist Hospital of .a breathing vices as truck deliveries and gar­
decision was made to fire the

Pennsylvania alumni magazine,
Problem associated with the pul­bage collection. 
housekeepers, but the Teamsters

343 housekeeping employees were
monary artery trouble for which be In addition, Penn officials have
did not attend them. Union 

was admitted Oct.27, ~....•. JB~ttll?~\J)OJllul~~rit:YtJ~9it~b;a,~ci{;) released from the University's 
admitted that union lobbying
officials also neglected to answer a

employment in August. Penn
His wife, the former Lilllbelle · registered letter sent by the Uni­efforts at the state capital have
claimed it could save over $750,000
Glenn of ClevelAnd, Ohio whom he caused $17.7 million in funds
versity concerning the situation,

or approximately 15 percent of the 
married 51 years ago, was at .his Robinson said. allocated to the school to be held up 
$4.5 million housekeeping budget
bedside. ' indefinitely.
Irene McMenamin, assistant

by hiring private contractors who
Arrangements for afuneral ser• The case is now in deliberation
Labor Relations director; stressed 

would provide their own workers,
vice near his Freeport, ·Island before the NLRB.
that "a settlement is being encour­

with fewer benefits. 
In October of this year, Notre
aged with the union, but local

peing made . ?iji~'~J~Iii~rr:~~~da ~;~~~b~l~~f~;~;~~l~J Teamsters Local 115 head John
t 1 Teamsters officials are presently Dame announced similar plans to
Morris, however, does not believe
of those years. permanently lay off its grounds­
concerned with exerting pressure

that money is the real issue. "The
12 with four keepers after deciding that a
in the state's capital through its

University rejected our proposals 
private firm would save the Univer­
lobbying efforts."

because it did not want to bargain 
sity money. Teamsters officials
One official connected with

with the Teamsters," he stated. In 
from Local 364 claim, however, that 
Penn, however, quoted union offi­

ND attitudes 'dangerously' 
support ofthis claim, LocalllS has · 
the worker's dismissal was a result
cials as saying, "The University is

filed "refusal-to-bargain" charges 
of their desire to unionize.
afraid to deal with Local 115." This

with the National Labor Relations 
The Notre Dame case has not yet 
official ·agreed with this statement

Board (NLRB) against Penn. 

close to pro-apartheid 
been decided by the NLRB. According to the Gazette, the 
and said, "Local 115 is the rough­

by Bob V arettoni "exercizes in futility." est union in Philadelphia,_ a city
housekeeper's decision to join the
Senior Staff Reporter which is known for its tough
W alshe said that he was happy a dialogue had been opened about As an investor in corporations the University's investment pol­



ROCCO'S
with economic ties to South Africa, icies. He noted that the "prophetic 
Senior Class Fellow 
some Notre Dame attitudes are stance of a Christian university is 
"dangerously close" to those of the priceless" and at stake in this supporters of apartheid, according question of investments. to Peter Walshe, professor of "We need, of the sake of our 

nominees announced 
BARBERS

government and international own sould, to be perfectly clear that studies. we are not contributing to an unjust by Pat Dermody basis of accomplishments, spirit,W alshe, a native of South Africa, power structure," W alshe said. and personal integrity, the follow-delivered the opening and closing 
hairstylists

James Stew are, visiting profes-Elizabeth Naquin, Senior Class ing 2b0 c~nctdiddaStes .areClthosFe wllho 
addresses at the South African Sor Of Engll.sh and a rest'dent of c · h · may e e e e emor ass e ow
Fellow ommittee c urman, of the Class of 1978:
Workshop held yesterday after­

South Africa, presented a poetry revealed yesterday the names of 
531 N. Michigan
noon in the Architecture Auditor­

reading at the workshop. He said the 20 candidates for the final BOB HOPE
ium. Fr. Richard Zang, investment 

the ''white opulence riding on the Senior Class Fellow elections to be HUBERT HUMPHREY 
233-4957
officer, represented the University 

backs of blacks is glaringly appar-held Nov. 16-17. STEVE MARTIN 
at the workshop before an audience 

ent." The guilt of South African The remaining 20 nominees were JOHN WAYNE 
of 90 students and faculty mem­

whites, he noted, must be buried selected from a field of 144. "We ANDREW YOUNG ties of that nominee." She added
bers. 

deep in their consciences. would like to thank the entire ALAN ALDA that 25 signatures of other senior
Zang listed 29 American-based 

Two movies were also shown at senior class for the enthusiasm JERRY LEWIS must accompany this statement.
multinational corporations with 

the workshop; "There is no Crisis" they have shown," said Naquin. BILL COSBY This petition must be dropped off 
"broad involvements" in the South 

and "One Nation, Two National-She added that the number of RALPH NADER in the Student Activities Office or
African economy. He estimated 

isms." Both dealt with the history nominations was over twice the BARBARA JORDAN 312 Walsh Hall by 5 p.m. Wednes
that Notre Dame held stock in 

and workings of apartheid. amount submitted last year. KURT VONNEGUT day. At 7 p.m. that evening the
one-third of these corporations. 

Yesterday's workshop was spon-Selected by the committee on the CARL SAGAN Senior Class Fellow Committee will 
Zang suggested that multi­

sored by the World Hunger Co-ALEX HALEY hold a forum in Room 122 of the
national corporations contributed 

alition. BILL BRADLEY Business building. 
to the industrial development of 

Rotterdam Phl.lharmonf•c 
O.J. SIMPSON The forum is open to all seniors,
third world nations. Walshe, as 

ART BUCHWALD but those seniors who have submit-
well as Hunger Coalition Director 


to Per..orm at 0 'Laughlf•n
Bob jacobs, objected to this. HENRY WINKLER ted a petition must be in. atten­
1I SYLVESTER STALLONE dance. If the petitioner is not
"According to a Hunger Co­

a fine orchestra from a city that KATHERINE GRAHAM present, his nominee will not be
alition investigation," Jacobs said, 

The Rotterdam Philharmonic recognizes that art carries no BRUCE SPRINGSTEEN reconsidered.
"the opposite is closer to the truth. 

SY:mphon! Orchestra ~ ~erform passport." "We anticipate no major pro-
Multinationals have created an 

this evemng at 8 p.m. m 0 Laugh-Tickets for tonight's perfor-Naquin stated that "any senior blems," remarked Naquin, "but
astounding balance of payment 

lin Auditorium at St. Mary's. On mance are SS ($3 for students) and who is dissatisfied with the remain-we do want to make sure that the
deficits that have substantially 

the program are a number of 19th may be obtained by calling the box ing candidates may reopen discus-majority of the senior class is
inhibited industrial development in 

and 20th century Romantic compo-office at 4-4176 or may be pur-sion of a nominee by submitting a satisfied. This is the reason that
the third world." Zang said moral considerations sitions, includingby Hectorthe Symphonle .!ci!h!a;se!d!!!at~t!h!e!d~oo!!!r!.!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!br!!!i!!!ef!!!p!!!a!!!r!!!ag!!r!!!a!!p!!!h!!!o!!!u!!!tl!!!in!!!in!!!g!!!th!!!e!!!q!!u!!!a!!!!!!i-!!!!!!w!!!e!!!a!!!r!!!e~h=o=ld~in!!!=gth~e!!!fo!!!ru!!!m!.!!!,!!!!!!i
Fantastlque Berlioz;
are a secondary factor in University 1 
• investment decisions, according to schumann's Overture, Scherzo and COLUMBIA ARTIST.S presents THE
Finale; and the Concerto In A
Jacobs. He explained that returns 

minor for Violin and Orchestra by
on investments is the primary 

Glazunov.
consideration, Jacobs added. 
The Rotterdam Orchestra is
•'The problem is a complex 

internationally known as one of
one," Zang said. "Primarily, 

Europe's finest symphone orches­
proxy voting is the most effective 

tras, and its conductor Edo de 
way to exert pressure in South 

W aart has received much acclaim
Africa." 

in his previous two American tours. 
Zang said proxy voting is the 
When the Rotterdam Philhar­
method Notre Dame uses to assure 

monic performed at Carnegie Hall
corporate responsibility in the third 

in 1975, a critic from the New York
world. However, he pointed out 
Times reported, "The Rotterdam is 
that these proxy votes are often 
*The Observer 
EDOde WAART 
Music Director/Conductor

is now accepting

qualified applicants for 
Saint Mary's College Performing Arts Series ASSISTANT 
O'LAUGHLIN AUDITORIUM

AD MANAGER. 
.Monday, 7 November
salary offered 

8:00PM

please· schedule interview at the 
Adults $5.00 Students $3.00
Observer ad office 
for reservations call 284 -4176

'----3rd floor LaFortune--­


Monday, November 7, 1977
the observer
4 




Credit cards, loans? Not easy for students 
by Bill Delaney 

Thinking about applying for a 
credit card, taking out a loan or 
buying on a time payment plan? If 
you are a college student, you may 
be disappointed. 

In the buy now-pay later world of credit cards and consumer finance, students often find themselves faced with a Catch-22 type of situation. They can't take out a loan or qualify for a credit card without first establishing a credit back­ground. But, in order to estabish a credit background, they must bor­row money or make some sort of credit transaction. 
The problem, according to Paul Hill. loan officer at the South Bend American National Bank, is that banks, stores and credit card companies demand "some kind of previous loan experience" as assurance that their money will be paid back on time. "No one will stick his neck out to get a guy started," he explains. 
The most important factor in deciding whether or not a person is a good credit risk is usually his file at the Credit Bureau, a company that specializes in providing credit information, Hill says. Unfortu­nately, many young people have little or nothing on their file so creditors know nothing about them, he continues. 
If you have some extra money ina savings account, Hill suggests, a good way to begin to build up a file is to take out a loan using the savings as collateral and then deposit the borrowed money in the savings account. The loan goes on file with the Credit Bureau as a · good reference. 
At American National, the pass­book for the savings account is kept under lock and key so that neither the borrowed money nor the collat­eral can be withdrawn, Hill says. The rlisadvanta~e of this method is 
· that the original savings are tied up for a period of time; the money, however, continues to draw interest. One Notre Dame junior used a similar technique last summer to get a Bankamericard. He applied for the card, listing a department, the telephone company and a checking and savings account as references, he said, but was turned down because he was a student. He was able to get a $200 loan on time payments from a bank, however, and paid back the loan over a 
• period of months with the same money that he had borrowed. With this in his file, they were willing to give him the credit card. 
Getting something on file with the Credit Bureau, however, is not always the final solution to estab­lishing credit. "This is just the first step," Hill warns, because "you don't go from a $200 loan on a savings account to a $4000 loan on a new car over night. You've got to crawl before you can walk." 
Credit Bureau files are not the only obstacles in the way of 


give you a special discount on perfect half carat blue-white 
,u,,,uuvH'u. What do you say?" Well, what would you say? If I could offer a bit of advice, you 
might wish to say ''thank you for



dukE 
time," as you close the door Graduate School 
the outside. Here's why: Student discounts, like sales of
of Business Administration 
any type on diamonds, are nothing but puffery. The worldwide supply of diamonds is dwindeling every year, and those diamonds which 
A representive of the Graduate Sdlool of Business 
are availabe are generally priced in accordance with international stan-
Adninistration '~II be on ca111MJS Tuesday, 
dards. So when you're offered a
,.,verrber 15 to ~iSOJss the Duke MBA program 
"deal" on a diamond, you can
Interested students may obtain furlher infomB­
safely assume that (a) the diamond 
tion by mntading the Racermnt Bureau. 
is flawed in some fashion, or (b) it 
EARN 

THE MBA 
WITH AN 
IIIJTS1j GRADUATE 

FACULTY AT


RUT&ERS 
"One of America's top Graduate Schools of Business Administration." 
From A Guide to Executive Education in Business Week Magazine 
Rutgers, The State University, offers you an opportunity to study with one of the nation's most distinguished faculties in management education whether as a full-time or part­time student. The Rutgers MBA program is one of three in the N.Y. Metropolitan Area accredited by the American As­sembly of Collegiate Schools of Business. 
Trimester study program. Full-time admissions June and September. Part-time admis­sions September and February. 
Convenient locations on our Newark Campua and in the New BrunswickArea. 
... 


students who wish to get credit. "Start out small, meet obliga­There is a definite prejudice among tions and maintain stability of lenders towards college students address and employment," he because of the high rate of non­advises. payment on loans for tuition, Hill For people who have been reject­asserts. ed, there is some recourse. "A 
Congress has recently passed person can dispute any rejection," legislation to protect people who Hill says. "Present law states that borrow money. The Equal Credit we have got to tell him the reason Opportunity Act of 1976 makes it why he was rejected and if he can illegal for creditors to discriminate rectify the situation, then we are because of reasons including age willing to talk again." and occupation but Hill points out The law also states that everyone that "laws can't change attitudes; has the right to examine their own there is still that prejudice." files at the Credit Bureau, although the information cannot be gotten over the phone, according to Hill. 
Another way out that he sug­gests is to have a co-signer. "A co-signer has to be someone who i!> willing to support the contract." he says, "so we are looking for family ties, which can make it hard for out of state students." 
Persistence can sometimes help, Hill reluctantly admits, because "there is always a human factor involved." Loan officers sometimes take risks "on a gut feeling or to help a guy out," he says. 
Jerry Cauldwell, operations manager of the South Bend Credit Bureau, feels that employment and residency are two factors that hurt student's chances for being grant­ed credit. Most students don't have 


~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~­
full time jobs, he says, and "even
though they get a check every month from Dad, that's not the same as a 
job." 
Students whose parents do not Chapter 2: Classifying live in the South Bend area have a Your Engagement Diamond further problem, Cauldwell contin­

ues, because creditors look at After a few shopping excursions, length of residency. finally come across a jeweler says, "Since you're students, 
has been marked up in order to be discounted back to it's original price. Remember that you're ask­ing for trouble if you shop for diamonds in the same way you shop for toasters. 
Secondly, terms such as "per­feet" and "blue-white" are not
STUDY WITH THE LEADERS. 


used by knowledgable jewelry es­tablishments. There is no quality grading termed "perfect," only those diamonds which show no inclusions or blemishes are con­sidered "flawless" when viewed by an expert in normal lighting under ten-power magnification. Likewise the term "blue-white" has been so_ flagrently misused in 
Richard D. Marshall, LL.B. Buckner A. Wallingford, -Howard University. II, Ph.D. -University of Former Corporate Officer Michigan. Teacher, of the Government Researcher and Consultant National Mortgage in Corporation Finance, Association. Consultant Securities Markets, and Advisor in Housing Investment Analysis, and Development and Portfolio Selection and Municipal Management. Balance. Author. Associate Teacher of Real Estate Professor of Business Finance and Land Use. Administration. Professor of Business Administration. 

David K. Whitcomb, Ph.D. Philip C. Shaak, D.B.A. ­-Columbia University. Harvard University. Specialist in Industrial lnternationally·known Economics and Security Management Develop· Market Operations and ment Specialist. Author. Investments. Author. Teacher and Consultant Teacher and Researcher in General Management, in Finance and Economics. Organizational Behaviour Associate Professor of and Production. Professor Finance. of Business Administration. 

with Special Guest Star
r()-------------~ 
RUTGERS 
RUTGERS UNIVERSITY Graduate School of Business Administration 92 New Street, Newark, N.J. 07102 
Please send me full information on yourMBA program. 
N1run~---------------------
Addr~'-----------------------­
City·______otat:e.e____:L.Zip__ 
-.,•.•--•. 
the past that it is no longer accepted within our industry. Finally, a "half-carat" diamond 
may legally range in size from .43 carats to .57 carats. A small difference perhaps, but would you like to pay for nearly one-tenth of a carat that you're not really getting? Always make sure that you know e:uctly how much your diamond weighs before you sign your check. 
At Diamond Import Company we subscribe to the standards for diamond classification extablished by the Gemological Institute of America. Only Graduate Gemolo­gists such as myself can adhere to these stringent voluntary require­ments. By utilizing this gradation system, any GIA member in the world will be able to consistently grade the color (D thru X), quality ("FL" thru "1-3"), carat weight and cut quality of your diamond. 
Volumes have been written on this subject of diamond classification, so I won't attempt to duplicate them in this column. But if you are interested in knowing more about the nature, pricing and classifica­tion of diamonds, please feel free to get in touch with me. Diamond Import Company is located in the lobby of the St. Joseph Bank Building in downtown South Bend, 
and  our  telephone  number  is  
287-1427.  
Next week,  a  few  thoughts  on  

"name brand" diamonds (once described to me as having all the character of a fast-food restaurant). and variations on the !radiational engagement ring (a green garnet instead of a diamond?). 

ERIC CARMEN 
also appearing
I NETWORK SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 19, 8:00P.M.I NOTRE DAME A.C.C. 
I 
All Seats Reserved: $7.00 and $6.00 Tickets on sale at: 
• Notre Dame A.LL Box Olfi<e • St. Joseph Bank & Bron<hes • fust Bonk-Main offico only Sat. 9 to S • River City Re<ords. 
: !~~:~dfr~t~ord in Elkhart

I 
• Student Union Ti<ket Offi<e • Boogie Re<orrls 
• Robertson's·S.B. &(on<ord 
Mpll 
1·i~~,;.;o;;:v· 

-----......,...~-----­





Neat Distinctions and Silences 
As everyone knows, the 5th Commandment says "Thou shalt not kill." As everyone also knows, we are surrounded by a great deal of killing, much of which is absolved of wrong by the approval and legitimacy of custom and law. In order for this to be done with ease of conscience, a neat distinc­tion is made between human life and all other living things. These latter are considered, for the most part, fair game for the whim and mood of Man. 
Again, we are quite aware of the sort of havoc wreaked on the environment through the disdain for life and existence other than our own which careful and casual distinctions permit. 
As for human life, there are also types of legitimized killings: pun­ishment for heinous crimes, self. defense, 'just wars', and the like. But isn't it unfortunate how fre­quently the proportion is thrown askew, so that the executions eliminate the undesirable rather than correct abuses, people are 
killed to secure and protect things, 
and nations are devastated past 
recovery in the name of such ideals 
as Freedom and Democracy and 
Honor. 

$( ~+lrnes, and not rarely, a 
curious .wist is given to these 
distinctions so that killing becomes 
an act through which God is 
reverenced: witness the Crusades 
and Holy Wars and Just Causes of 
History, licensed by the call to 
defend His perogative (can hu­
mans really defend His honor, His 
dignity and holiness). Or, when 
laurence a. mayer 
religious zeal isn't the justifying cause, the Advancement of Hu­manity itself is appealed to, to permit and even require enormous inhumanity. 
For example, the modern history 
of the people Israel has been marked by massacres ---pogroms ---precipitated by Christians screaming "Christ killers!" or "Jerusalem est peridita!" For as warped reason would have it, the people have been rejected, and what God has rejected can be annihilated with impunity by man. How 'humane' was the intent in Nazi Germany to purify Aryan blood --by the systematic eradica­tion of this 'different' people. 
Not have the jews been the only objects of this way of looking at things; frequently enough the ex­pansion of Western civilization has been accompanied by the slaughter and enslavement of native peoples through the simple expedient of assigning the labels 'non-human' or 'abominable to God'. And after all, why ought one respect non­humans and abominations? 
Do any of these names, these neat terms, sound familiar?· They should. Recall any of the stereo types and catch phrases used by 'majorities' to justify keeping the 'minorities' in their unfree and unequal condition. Ms. Bryant is only a more overt 'prophetess' of a new program, with her insistent Big Lie style of crying "Abomina­tion" at Gays; nor are such words as 'pervert', 'bestial', 'subhuman', etc., foreign to the vocabulary associated with the 'decency' cam­

!P*The Observer an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's 
The Observer is published by students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and as objectively as oossible. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions and letters 
·are the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and letters are f ,couraged to promote the free expression of varying opinions on campus. 
Business Manager Sue Quigley BoxQ Advertising Manager Steve Bonomo 'Notre Dame Production Manager Karen Chiames Ind. 46556 
paign identified with her. 
Words are powerful things, cap­able of catalyzing into action the vague fears and discontents of those who depend on others for their thinking and ideals; and usually, it is to mob action, mindless and impulsive. News reports show that there art.. only too many such listeners willing to find themselves as God's instruments for wiping out 'non-humans' and purging 'abominations'. And by presuming to speak for God and for Humanmity, Ms. Bryant and oth­ers like her give a divinely autho­rized permission. 
As this happens throughout the country, this planting of a terrible self-righteouness, one wonders at the silence of the churches and theologians and the many cham­pions of human rights. Are they hoping "It" (Anita, the phenom­enon of homosexuality, the exis­tence of different people and ideas) will go away? Why do they temporize while the proponents of executing Gays, for instance, shout their gospel, using the Word of God as their foundation? Are these moral leaders afraid to be 'tainted' by speaking out? Are they waiting until it isn't so expensive either in · money or human respect to defend an unpopular cause? 
One wonders what neat distinc­tions justify the killing silences. And one wonders if the God and the Humanity which these present day crusaders and knights -errant refer to is the one that Jesus heard and· unpopularly served. 
EDITORIAL BOARD 

Marti Hogan Editor-in-Chief Martha Fanning Managing Editor Bob Brink Asst. Managing Ed Kathy Mills Executive Editor Maureen Flynn Editorial Editor Barb Breitenstein Exec. News Editor Jean Powley St. Mary's Editor Katie Kerwin News Editor Barb Langhenry News Editor Paul Stevenson Sports Editor Pat Cole Special Projects Ed. David O'Keefe Features Editor · 
Copy Editor Joan Fremeau 
Photo Editor Leo Hansen 
. 
1 
j I 
_, 

-~ ~P.O. BOXQ~ 

Lighting Priorities 
Dear Editor: 
T~~ Univ~rsity has t~ke~ strong posttton agamst the untontzation of any one of its employees, but is this position as concrete as it seems to be? Perhaps the University would not be ·so strongly opposed to unionization if it were dealing with a progressive, well respected labor organization. The Teamsters, whose reputation escapes few of us, are not such a class organiza­tion. On the contrary, the Team­sters insist on fragmenting the personnel so as to include only a few !!l"oundskeepers in their local. If benefitting the workers is their only concern, then why not spread their benevolence among other 
, University employees as well? 
I have a feeling that whaf the Teamsters are really after is estab­lishing themselves at Notre Dame. They already attempt to borrow integrity and credibility from Notre Dame's national reputation by advertising during radio broadcasts of Fighting Irish football games. 
We have let an organization with questionable motives and a lack of widespread support create a situa­tion in which the Administration looks bad if it says no to unioniza­tion, and worse if it grants the teamsters the right to organize. What is needed is a solid alterna­tive proposal from a respected union, or an association of campus employees independent of any parent union. If not, the status quo will prevail. 
Stan Aslanian 


Teamsters: Foot in door? 
Dear Editor: 
I have nothing against Notre Dame's Golden Dome, but it seems that things have gone too far when the University purchases new colored lights for it when they will not even pay to light the dark areas of campus. Does that tell us where Notre Dame's priorities lie? I hope not, because if it does, something is wrong. 
For many years, students have been complaining about the poor lighting situation around areas 

DOONESBURY 
such as: the walk south from 
O'Shaughnessy Hall, the Hurley 
Building, and the walk between the 
Church and the Adminfstration Building to Lewis Hall. The many petitions and pleas have not yet s~rved any useful purpose. When wtll the Administration be equally cOQcerned with the needs of the students as well as with the public image of Notre Dame? 
Mary Ann Wissel 
Lab reas­signment unjustified 
Dear Editor: 
I was saddened to read of the University's underhanded action in moving Professor Emeritus James 
P. Danehy from the office and lab that he occupied during thb twenty -six years of employment as a professor of Chemistry at the Universio/ of Notre Dame. 
Aside from further inconvenien­
cing the professor , this unwarran­
ted reassignment of office space 
s~rv~s to embarrass the Univeristy 
wtth tts forced retirement policies. 
Not only does the administration 
waste the services and rob the 
the livelihoods of those affected by 
mandatory retirement, but it acts to 
alienate these people from the 
Notre Dame community altogether. 
A man of Professor Danehy's respected character and high stan­dards and academic acclaim doe­sn't deserve the belittling treat­ment that results from this forced office relocation. 
As a student of Notre Dame, I was able to study under Proffessor Danehy, and I consider myself fortunate to have done so. He was a teacher whose instruction didn't stop with the end-of-class bell. I spent many, many hours in both his private and open tutoring sessions. The attendant consideration and personal attention given to me and many other students by this man will never be forgotten. 
I only ask myself how Notre Dame can expect to be a univer­sally caring community when we have such evidence of thoughtless and uncaring attitudes in our own backyards? 
Michael A Villani '77 
by Garry Trudeau 


UM.I HfPE 7HAT IIJIISN7 YEAH,BI/T
1007E!Q(-IT 1.«45 NICAl. .. fAXR11.I n: I 
I 
ROLAN£), I /lKJNoeR IF YOU COIJW 8XP/.AIN 70 fJS HOW >t:7iR REIU!JON 
STU/JeN75111/l/.. RT INTO ABC NEIJIS' TAG-7EAM 
1®1 
~11-7 
IAJUL, IT PJOI?KS l/1<13 7H/5_ MMK. lfMRY I<EA5Q1/el?., TH& SUPe?.­1/IKJKJR, 7CA5C5 7H£ SKFIFRO'YI 
·NliiA/ YQet:'. 7HCN He 7HROPIS IT 70 7HER£6/CWI/L MINI-~ IN /A};f) !a'S "llit: LEA!)-JNI 
I 


.. 

Monday, November 7, 1977
the observer 
by John Mahon Robert E. Lee, a senior member 

'====~:~~ the Federal Communications
(FCC), spoke to approxi­twenty telecommunications 
dents last Thursday. He also met with the WNDU advisory committee to discuss the possibility of expanding their programs and increasing the number of courses in this area of study. 
Lee, a former FBI agent and currently, a commissioner of the FCC, talked to students in the American Studies telecommunica­tions class about the regulative and functional duties of the FCC, as well as his own responsibilities as commissioner. He described the FCC appointment procedure, and explained that he was appointed to his present position by Eisenhower in 1953. 
Currently he is preparing to participate in an international con­ference in Geneva, set for 1779, which will allocate broadccasting frequencies and adjust regulations. 
He described the meeting as "the largest of its kind in 100 years." He is presently the United States representative to the International Telecommunications Union. 

l 
the WNDU advisory committee to



~~~=i~~~----J~~~~~~!~~==··~· 
After the speech, Lee met with
plan on ways of expanding their 
current programs. A second 

mM 

And we can offer outstanding career opportunities in Marketing, Engineering or Computer Science. 
We will be interviewing at 
The University of Notre Dame on November 15, 1977. 
To find out about IBM and let us find out about you, sign up for an interview at the Placement Office or write to: I.C. Pfeiffer, College Relations Manager, IBM Corporation, One IBM Plaza, Chicago, Illinois 60611. 
-~-­
--.-­
-

~-­
-

-. --­
===-=~=® 
An Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action Employer 
telecommunications course is being added to the schedule next semes­ter. WNDU already sponsors internships, but is looking for more avenues of service. 
Also stressed in his talk was the historical background in which FCC regulations developed. He stated that the duties of the ·COmmission lie more in regulative functions than in actual broadcasting. 
He cited the rapid growth of the Citizens'-Band radio as a dramatic example of the problems in trying to ensure adequate regulation. Under the present Fcc rules, all C-B radios must be licensed. Yet over 15 million sets are in use, and only half of them are actually registered. Attempts to bring the situation under control are made difficult by the easy accessibility to CB radios and their ease of operation. 
Issues the FCC must face in the field of television are more contro­versial and bring up the question of censorship. Lee said that some programs are excessively violent and "many good citizens are anxious to bring them under con­trol." 
Yet there are others who approve of the programs and would view regulation attempts as a form of unwarranted censorship. It is a question of trying to determine where bad taste ends and the need for regulation begins, Lee said. 


Lee said that there are "direct local implications resulting from future satellite transmissions.'' NASA has already completed an experimental satellite, the Applica­tion Technology Satellite or ATS-6 and is using it to provide education­al services to people in inaccesible areas like Appalachia. 
One problem with such satellites is that by the nature of their frequencies they may effectively block all telephone communica­tions. Until this problem is solved, the use of television satellites appears unlikely on a local scale. 
In a recent talk to business leaders, Lee predicted a rapid rise in the use of home computers. A system is available today costing $400. If the consumer already has the needed television and cassette player it might cost even less. 
Data storage units are also available for $200 which are able to project newspaper pages onto the television screen. These units involve memory chips and charac­ter generator components. If they follow the same trend as that of pocket calculators they should be available for $20 in a few years, he said. 
Lee predicted the spread of coaxial cables and optical fibers in broadcast transmission to homes from a central base. The use of such cables allows for direct con­tact with the source, and prevents atmospheric static. Over 12 million homes are already hooked up to such systems for television and FM radio reception. The number is expected to greatly increase with advances in the technology of optical fibers. 
Speaking before the Nevada Broadcaster's Association Conven­tion in Lake Tahoe, Lee said, "I certainly don't think our broadcast­ing system will become obsolete because of the technological de­velopments I have been describ­ing." Rather, he feels, the system will be improved and become more efficient. 



247 Dixieway North ph. 277-3355 



a; 

Monday, 1 November 7, 1977 the ObServer 7 
-~·· 



Michigan over-powers Notre Dame ·pucksters 
Then, only 28 seconds later. the scored again, this time on a near for a one-goal margin as with 3:29 left in the game to give· the ance has improved, the caliber of Irish tallied again. This time it was perfect shot from the left that just gone in the third, Todd slipped a Wolverines their 7-5 final margin. our competition is also better.'' Don Jackson scoring on the power eluded Moher's grasp. Then, shot p~ost Moher's right side to give Although Coach Smith was dis­"Michigan has a very fine club," play with Don Fairholm assisting. Terry Fairholm brought the Irish the Wolverines a two-goal lead. appointed in his team's effort and S111ith stressed. "It's disappointed 
However, Michigan was quick to back with a goal at the 12:30 mark, However, the Irish refused to some breakdowns in the defense, to lose, however, with the added retaliate, as only 36 seconds after to knot the score at three. bow as they roared back with two there is still a long season ahead in experience and games, we'll be Notre Dame h.ad taken a two-goal However, less than a minute and goals of their own. Consecl}.tive which the Irish have time to able to make a move." lead, Mauer tallied to pull the a half later, the Wolverines scores by Collier and Kevin Hum­improve. Well, if the Irish hope to make a Wolverines within one. Then, at regained their lead on a score by phreys tied the game at five with "You have to look at the bright move, this weekend presents an the 7:51 mark of the period, Mark Miller. The Michigan icers just under ten minutes· remaining. side,'' Smith acknowledged. ''Our excellent opportunity. Notre Dame Michigan's leading scorer, DeBol, maintained their 4-3 advantage But, Ben Kawa broke the dead­play has improved considerably entertains the defending National tied the score at two with a brilliant throughout the remainder of the lock at the 14:06 mark to give from the Duluth game to the Champions, Wisconsin. The Irish, shot off Moher's left side. period. Michigan a 6-5 lead and DeBol Colorado and Michigan series, · now 0-4 in the WCHA will host 
In the second period, DeBol The Wolverines would not settle ~dded the clincher with only 3:07 
Irish demolish Wreck, 69-14 · 
[Continued from page 8] "We. are getting better each Greenville, South Carolina next rushing attempts. The junior half­week." weekend to face Clemson. The back had been averaging over 6.6 ''I think our defense was Tigers are 7-1-1 on the season. yards per carry. Ivery's running extremely aggressive. We play a Georgia Tech, 5-4, will be on the mate, Lee, had been averaging 5. 7 concentrated team defense this road again next weekend, facing yards per carry. Lee only managed year. Our tackles keyed on the Tech the Naval Academy. 21 yards in nine attempts. fullback. If he didn't have the ball Irish Items: This contest marked 
Defensively, the Irish were led they went after whoever did have the largest margin of victory for by Ross Browner, who registered it." ' Notre Dame in the series. The 55 15 tackles, including two for a "All in all, I think we played point victory spread is the greatest negative 11 yard. Linebacker­about as well today as we did by the Irish since the 62-3 win over middle guard Bob Golic followed against Southern California." Army in 1973. Browner with 13 tackles. Golic also Georgia Tech Head Coach The ten touchdowns in the game intercepted a Tech pass that was Pepper Rodgers could not decide ties the modem day record set tipped by Steve Heimkreiter and what needed to be said, especially against Pittsburgh in 1965 and returned it six yards. In addition to to his players. Dartmouth in 1944. The five touch­Golic, Tom Flynn and freshman "I don't know what to say to a down passes ties the single-game Tom Gibbons each snagged inter­team after a loss like this," record established against Pitt in ceptions for the Irish. Rodgers stated. "I guess all I can 1944. 
The team played extremely well, tell them is that there will be The 99 offensive plays is just five both offensively and defensively, another day." short of the single-game mark set and Head Coach Dan Devine was "Notre Dame is the best team we against Iowa in 1968. The 34 the first to stress that point. have played this year," Rodgers first downs is only two shy of the 
''I'm very pleased with our concluded. single-game mark versus Army in whole team," Devine commented. The Irish, now 7-1, travel to 1974. 
NOTICES Paid travel; monthly living allowance; . . health benifits and more. Must be US FOUND: near grotto, one combmatlan 
citizen, 18 years of age (no upper limit), lock, manufactured by Presto, Inc. If 
1772

ALL SMC REPORTERS: Mandatory single, married with no dependents. yours, call · 
meeting for all· Monday, Nov. 7 at 6:30 Peace Corps recruiters on campus Nov. . . . · I pm in SMC office (basement of Regina 15·17. Sign up now in the Placement LOST. NO class nng, library washroom. 1 South). If you can't make it please call Bureau for an interview. Reward. Dave, 1582. . I 
Jean at 4001. •••••••-••••••••••••••-••••••••••••••••• 
LOST: Cheetowaga Central High School Need a ride to Cincinnati or Indianapolis Free kittens to good home. Call eveningsFOR SALE Ring, Gold and Red, 1977. Initials WJH on Friday, Nov. 11th. Can leave after 11 256-0779.
Anyone wishing to vote in Indiana's May 

on ringside. Call Bill 8904. and will share expenses. John, 1380. -----------­
election should call Moat 4-4001. 

Margeret, FOR SALE: Frostline Polargaurd winter Inspected car at reasonable price for Thanks for giving the unemployed a1 Typing -reasonable rates. Call 8051. 
jacket. Men's medium. Worn only twice. daughter to drive to and from school. hand. $45.00 or best offer. Call Marie 7009. Cash paid. 272-4734 evenings. Joe
MIDWEST BLUES FESTIVAL, Nov. 11 and 12 at Stepan Center. Anyone 
WANTED 

Beautiful apartment for rent from Janu­PERSONALS HELP!! I desperately need a ride to
interested in running aconcessions stand 

ary until July. One bedroom, nice living Omaha on Nov. 23, and back on the 27th.
at the festival call Bob at 272-9321. 

room, pool, completly furnished, fully Addressers wanted immediately! Work The Toad will be doing her wild woman Will share driving and expenses and good carpeted, air conditioned. $199 monthly at home experience -routine again this Saturday. conversation. Tom, 8529.
Will do typing. Neat. Accurate. Hours: -no necessary
plus utilities. Call 272-9805. excellent pay. Write American Service,
9-6. Call 287-5162. 

Good Luck Dash! Somebody,
8350 Park Lane, Suite 269, Dallas TX,

Classic ovation guitar with hard shell 75231. Leigh Hit your car in front of McCandlessInterested in updating your understan­
ovation case. Asking $225. Must sell. early morning Saturday, October 15. Getding of the Christian Faith and Catholic 
Call Gene at 1694. LOST: One blue nylon "St. Mary's To my wonderful co-chief of last friday in touch through Personals. Willing toTradition? Considering the possibility of 
afternoon. Thanks for a fun day. Kudos pay.
Track" jacket with "Bob" sewn on the
becoming a Catholic? For more informa­USC -UCLA sportswear for sale...come front. Pricless sentimental value. Rob and kisses,tion, drop by the Catholic ministry offices 

and browse. 326 Morr. Ask for Kevin, 8464. Now Theres an honest man....DiogenesIn the Memorial Library or Badin Hall, or 
3587. can rest!!
call 6536 or 3820. 
George,
Need 1 GA Air Force ticket. Please call 

FOR SALE: Name brand stereo and Kelly: 1266. Would you number happen to be 8549? Happy birthday Maura!
COLLEGE GRADS 

telivision at prices you can afford. Love, · I was gonna get you Farmer Jeans but I
PEACE CORPS AND VISTA 

Manufaturers warranty. Call 291-5843 Male business student to make acllection Mary Georgette promised I wouldn't embarass you today.
The Peace Corps and VISTA offer unique 

evenings. calls. 3-4 hrs per night. $2.75 per hour. B Biology Majoropportunities for qualified individuals to Jack -Breath,
Call Mr. Gendron at 256-1884.
use their knowledge and skill to help in 

FOR SALE: Pioneer 300 receiver...cheap. Here's a personal because you never To 356 Sarin Penthousedeveloping nations in South America; 
Call 8636 afetr 7. Need GA Air Force tickets. Call Claire, .get any calls. Keep gasping. You may retaliate, but we'll see who has
Asia, Africa, and all over the United 

289-6533. B the last laugh!
States. Build abetter future for others as 

WHY PAY MORE??? Flanner records 2nd floor WW Frosh you enhance your own. Openings in a 
has all $6.98 list lp's for only $4.50. All NEED EXTRA MONEY? Sell Olde ALL SMC REPORTERS: Mandatory
variety of fields. Living expenses, travel 

$7.98 list lp's only $5.29. Over 400 Worlde industrial or home cleaning meeting for all -Monday, Nov. 7 at 6:30 HELP!! Someone hit and ran. Bigand other benefits are provided. For 
albums in stock. Phone orders accepted. supplies and personel care products. pm in SMC office (Regina South Base­damages done to my gree and white car. 
more Info how apply, contact ment).
on to FLANNER RECORDS, 322 Flanner, Some our people earning over $1000 If you can't make it, please call Anyone having any Information about an
volunteer recruiters on campus Nov. 

phone 2741. Hours, M-Th 4-5, 6:30-8:00. weekly. All depends on your ability and Jean at 4001. accident in B-2 parking on Friday Oct.
15-17. Sign up Immediately at the Placement Bureau for an interview. 

Sun 2-3:30. time. Brasilia, P.O. Box 2023, Elkhart, 21st between 1-5 call Pat 7620. 
5th floor Regina:
lnd, 46515 or call Elkhart, 293-0531,

'71 Toyota, excelent condition. 30 MPG. 264-1501 (nights). Thank you so much for all your help and Matt Kennelly ­
SOCIAL SCIENCE MAJORS 

272-3634 after 6 pm. concern. I appreciate it. Remember the Perfect score for a perfect brother!
VISTA (Volunteers in Service to America)­
Deli writing clinic Will be open again

Need $$$: Sell me 5 ND Air Force GA Congratulations on the LSAT! Love,needs individuals with educational back­second semester. I will be back. Miss The Smart One
tickets. Call Jim 3559.
ground for volunteer work in public you much. Love,

health, housing, youth counseling. com­FOR RENT 
Karen or
36-24-36, sell me your air force tix. 1 If you have a printing, lay-out, andmunity development, geriatrics, or wor­
APARTMENT FOR RENT-Fabulous one student, 2 GA. Sue, 4798. management experience and would likeking with the handicapped. Help people 
Velvet ears, part time on campus work, call campushelp themselves. Paid travel; living of a kind townhouses on river in Elkhart. 
Sunken living room, fireplace, swimming Need 2 Air Force tickets. Please call Happy late birthday...big 21 years old. press 7407, 1-5, mon-fri; ask for Bill or
alowance; medical benefits and more. 

Remeber, you sti II owe me adrive by the John. This is a paid position.
For more information on benefits and pool, sunken red Japanese soaking tup, 4-5181. 
ocean. Love you bunces,

requirements, see VISTA recruiters on dishwasher, laundry equipment in each campus Nov. 15-17. Sign up for an unit, winding staircase, some with sky­Wanted: 1 season basketball ticket. Wil 
Babe TO ALL OBSERVER NIGHT EDITORS interview now in the Placement Bureau. light. Leases conform to school year. pay $. Please call 4-5181. AND ASSISTANT NIGHT EDITORS: 
Ann, Meeting this Thursday night, Nov. 10,Nothing like it anywhere! 294-2151. 
TYPIST WANTED: Fulltime, to typeset You may not be 21 (even though your ID 1977. Attendance required. At 8:30pm.
MATH AND SCIENCE MAJORS says otherwise) but 20 is old enough for a

Consider an alternative: Join the Peace Three bedroooms available on N. Eddy -display advertising, Monday and Wed­
Classy lady like you to have agood time.

Corps. Developing nations in Africa, good location to school. Call 282-1964. nesday thru Saturday afternoons and Happy birthday
evenings. Hourly pay. Experienec
Asia, and South America are asking for from the 5'2" Blue eyed blonde
helpful, but not necessary. ·Apply in
volunteers to teach math and science. 
LOST AND FOUND 
person at : The Penny Saver, 2102 S.
Challenging work assignments for crea­
We salute "Thunder cheeks" Willie for

Michigan St., South Bend, 288-1411. monthly living allowance; health benefits ticket. Call 8029 to identify. 7-c Grace an . more. Must be a US citizen, single4 Neeed: NO -St. Mary's students nite 
tive, energetic individuals. Paid travel; FOUND: One student football season the most powerful moon on campus. 
Nicola's

or married with no dependents. No LOST: Wire rim glasses. If found, call work. Restaurant. 809 N. SENIORS... RESUME PROBLEMS?? 
upper age limit. Contact Peace Corps Michigan St. Part Time or fulltime.
8636 after 7. We'll do it for you. Call Margie or
recruiters at the Placement Bureau Nov. Hourly pay. Waitresses, busboys. Pizza Margo, 272-5217. 
15-1~. Sign u;:, for a~ interview Today. LOST: Silver polarized sunglasses in the maker...dishwasher. Apply in person. 
Nicola's restaurant.

men's locker room at the Rockne Memo­To Bobby,CIVIL ENGINEERS rial on Thursday, Oct. 13th. If found. 'you are the sweetest and cutestLines of transpc ;tion, dams, health pleass call 3716 or return them to 902 Need ride to and from Pittsburgh at cooyreader I have ever worked with. I
clinics and schCJ(IIs are .1eeded in Thanksgiving . Call 1581 .
Flann" love you ..especially when you let me
d• ,eloping countries. As a P0ace Corps leave early.

I vr.·_;nteer, you can h•'s....i~·Africa. Asia, -------------Will trade Conrs and or $$$ for one Air 
LOST ·_.ace tan tor!luroy ~uit off of car

I cr 3outh Amp···-·:oo d·~ it all from Force ticket Kevir. ·28:l-158~
I preliminary :o s•; ···-vision of 

Ondo' · at 34',7. avai!aH•:: tr:··· ~!'le, \!f'\11.' \:' G(· 1\rec.
I C0'1Structior . _.' :-...;, " rewar-rids:'li .. ·:!.••o Slatf tc f6li\-CJing in persor ~,;-'""'te· .nw11l. I .. t~nday 11•'; ' ·,•·. oiJGfl. v-Ii~. ~·cmns tligl1t: ' •. 
l f·/Or'"y' I 
"" .':-Ito 
.Jt.im.Dal_____... 

.. ---·• :k·:,_t. ".'.. · ~ ~ ..,,,, ---·--~----· --··-·-··---_______J 



8 

the observer 7, 1977 


Fighting Irish swat Yellow Jackets 
Green Machine totals Ramblin' Wr~ck, rambles for 667 yards and 69 points 

by Paul Stevenson deep man Drew Hill fielded the compared to three for Georgia 
Sports Editor kick on his own three. The Tech Tech. The Ramblin' Wreck could 
junior then Iateraled to Eddie Lee manage only 64 yards on the 
Like a beekeeper handles his Ivery who sprinted 97 yards for the ground, while logging nothing in insects, the Notre Dame football touchdown to put the Yellow Jack­the air. The Irish chalked up 83 team swatted the Yell ow Jackets of ets right back in the game. Smith's yards via the rushing attack, while Georgia Tech. 69-14. The score was point after gave the Ramblin' compiling 174 yards by way of the the highest offensive output since Wreck a 7-6 advantage, only 13 aerial game. t the Pittsburgh game of 1965, in seconds after the Irish score. On their second possession of the which the Irish were victorious, Notre Dame then marched 65 third quarter, Notre Dame launch­69-13. yards for another tally, a drive ed a 91 yard scoring drive which 
The Ramblin' Wreck's running which was kept alive by a Georgia took five plays and 1:41 off the attack was fairly successful in the Tech personal foul. The penalty clock. The major blow in the score opening period, but not substantial came after a Montana pass just came on third down and eight at enough to dent the scoreboard. The escaped the hands of Irish running the Notre Dame 32. Montana Irish were also having their difficul­back Steve Orsini, who was jolted dropped back and hit Dave ties tinding the goal line in the after the play by a Tech defender. Waymer at the Irish 40. The opening frame as the first quarter The highlights of the scoring sophomore speedster went on to in a scoreless tic. march were an 18 yard aerial strike break four tackles en route to the 68 
The second quarter opened up to split end Kris Haines and the yard scoring play. Reeve's point with senior place kicker Dave eight yard touchdown toss to Terry from placement enhanced the Irish Reeve attempting a 27 yard chip Eurick. Montana then faked a pass lead to 28-7; ~hot. However. the Bloomington, and rolled right for the two-point On their next opportunity, Geor­Indiana native was wide with his conversion to give Notre Dame a gia Tech passed on first down. t hrec-point try. 14-7 lead. Yellow Jacket quarterback Gary 
Hut. after holding the Yellow The final Irish tally before inter­Hardie threw complete to Hill for Jal·kets on their next series, the mission ocurred after Tech's 11 yards and a first down. That Irish regained possession of the Rodney Lee fumbled at the Yellow aerial reception marked the first 
football. Notre Dame started ou the Jackets' 32 and Willie Fry recover­completed pass that Tech has aerial strike from Lisch to freshman Georgia Tech 44 via an 11 yard ed for the Irish. Halfback Jerome thrown against the Irish since the speedster Jim Stone. Stone then punt return by Steve Schmitz. Heavens then scampered around first quarter of the 1974 game in captured the next Irish touchdown 
Seven plays later. Notre Dame left end for 13 yards; Eurick Atlanta. as he raced over right guard, was on the scoreboard by way of a followed with a four yard burst up However, the Ramblin' Wreck eluded four Georgia Tech defend­one yard touchdown plunge by the ·middle and Haines made a 19 could not advance any further and ers and gallopped 21 yards for the Irish quarterback Joe Montana. yard reception in the endzone for the Irish took over at their own 35. score. Reeve's conversion failed as Notre six. Reeve's extra point gave Notre · Notre Dame then stormed 65 yards, The final Notre Dame touchdown Dame led, 6-0. Dame a 21-7 bulge. using up 5:34 in 13 plays for came on a 31 yard toss from 
On the ensuing kickoff, Georgia In the first two period, Notre another six points. Consecutive freshman quarterback Tim Keogel Tech rambled back. Yellow Jacket Dame registered 21 first downs, tosses from Montana to tight end to Speedy Hart with 3:28 remaining Ken MacAfee of 13 and 16 yards, in the contest. On that play, Koegel respectively, were key in the Irish became the first freshman quarter­drive. On fourth down and goal back to throw a touchdown pass for from the two, Heavens dove to the Irish since Ralph Guglielmi in 
paydirt. Reeve padded the score to 1951. 35-7 on the extra point. With the Irish enjoying a 69-7 
, Then, as if things were not bad romp, Tech roared back for one enough for the Yellow Jackets, final touchdown. The drive covered Ivery fumble~ Hardie's pitchout 53 yards in three plays. The tally and Jim Browner pounced on the came on an 18 yard pass from ball at the Tech 31. Hardie to Hill with only 2:06 left in 
With Rusty Lisch calling the the game. signals, halfback Vagus Ferguson In the mismatch, the Irish racked shot through the line for a 17 yard up 34 first downs, while their gain. Four plays later, Ferguson meager opponent only accounted shot over from the one for another for eight. Notre Dame amassed 667 Notre Dame score. Reeve's extra yards in total offense, 349 on the 
point extended the Irish margin to ground and 318 in the air. Mean­42-7. while, Georgia Tech only managed 
In the final stanza, Notre Dame 125 yards for their total offensive erupted for four additional touch­output, 84 yards rushing and 41 downs. The first of the four scores yards via the passing attack. Tech came on a spectacular 56 yard was ranked third in the nation in touchdown run by Ferguson in rushing, averaging 314 yards per 
which the Richmond, Indiana native game. shucked two would-be tacklers in The Irish ran 99 offensive plays, his sprint off left tackle. while Tech got off 51. Notre Dame 
The next tally came on a 14 yard gained an average of 6. 7 yards per 

Wolverines devour Notre Dame icers 
by Paul Stevenson second act, Steve Schneider gave and with one second left in the overall tonight than last week, Sports Editor the Irish the lead again with a contest, Manning tallied for the however, we still lack that killer straight-on score. The feed came Wolverines to end the scoring at instinct." 
The Notre Dame hockey team from Ted W eltzin and Greg Mer­5-3. Many thought the Irish fortunes dropped a pair of contests to the edith on the power play goal. "We had them on the run, and would be substantially better the pre-season number-one ranked Mi­Then, only 56 seconds later, the then we turned around and following night, especially after the chigan Wolverines, 5-3, 7-5, this Irish boosted their lead to 3-1 on an coughed up the easiest goals in the opening of the Saturday night past weekend at the ACC. unbelievable score by Scott Cam­world," Irish Head Coach Lefty clash. 
Although the Irish had built a 3-1 eron that just cleared Michigan Smith commented. With only 47 seconds elapsed in lead entering the final period of goalie Frank Zimmerman's head "But, you have to take your hat the game, Kevin Nugent put the play on Friday, the Wolverines, and made the right-hand corner of off to them. That's a sign of a great Irish on the scoreboard with a close displaying their top-ranked form, the net. The remainder of the team, coming back the way they range shot off the right side on the bombarded the Notre Dame icers period was scoreless as the Irish did." assist to Don and Terry Fairholm. with four unanswered final frame. maintained their two-goal advan­"We played a much better game 
[Continued on page 7]goals. On Saturday, the Irish came tage. back from a 5-3 deficit late in the Then, just as they had done the game, only to let the contest slip , week before in Denver, the Mich­away in the last seven minutes. igan icers erupted for four final With 6:48 elapsed in the first period scores. At the 8:05 mark, period of Friday's battle, Notre Dan Hoene brought the Wolverines 
I
Dame's Don Jackson opened the within one with the assist from Rod evenings scoring. The power play Pacholzuk. Less than two minutes goal, with the assist to Kevin later, Kip Mauer tied the score at Nugent and Geoff Collier, put the three on a power play opportunity. Irish ahead 1-0. Then, with 14:08 elapsed in the 
At the 12:32 mark of the first final act, Michigan tallied again, period, Michigan knotted the score this time by Todd, with Dave DeBol at one. The Wolverines' goal by and Tim Manning assisting. The Doug Todd was to be the lone score Wolverines were now enjoying for Michigan for the first two their first lead of the contest 4-3. periods. The next six minutes were 
The Irish continued the fine scoreless as the game was turned defensive play they exhibited in into a defensive struggle with Irish the first period all throughout the goalie John Peterson providing second stanza. The Wolverines some decent saves. Then with less were only able to make 18 shots on than one minute remaining in the goal in the two periods. contest, the Irish removed Peterson 
While the defense was turning from the nets in hopes of scoring a back the Wolverine offense, the final goal in the wanning minutes Notre Dame attack was on the to send the game into overtime. move. With 6:04 elapsed in the However, Michigan would not fold, 

Greg Meredith misses scoring opportunity against Michigan goalie Frank Zimmerman. The Irish had numerous shots on goal, but could not score in several key situations. [Photo by Doug Christian] 


piay, while Tech had a mean of 2.5 
yards per play. · The leading rusher for the Irish 
was Ferguson, who accounted for 
116 yards in 11 carries. Heavens 
followed his running mate with 85 
yards in 20 attempts. 
Montana broke his individual 
single-game record established last 
week against Navy, by completing 
15 of 25 passes for 273 yards. The 
Monongahela, Pennsylvania native 
distributed his passes evenly 
amongst his receivers. MacAfee 
caught four passes for 67 yards; 
Haines snagged another four 
tosses for 73 yards and Waymer 
received two aerials for 88 yards. 
Ivery c6mpiled 22 yards on 12 
[Continued on page 7] 


B-ball tickets to be distributed 
Distribution of basketball tickets 
for the 1977-78 season will take 
place Tuesday through Friday, 
November 8-11 , at the ACC Ticket 
Window between 8:30 a.m. and 
4:30p.m., including the noon hour. 
Students should report to pick up 
their tickets as follows: Seniors: 
Tuesday, Nov. 8; Juniors, graduate 
and law students: Wednesday, 
Nov. 9; Sophomores: Thursday, 
Nov. 10; Freshmen: Friday, Nov. 
11. 
No seat locations have been 
assigned, therefore, students 
desiring to sit together must pre­
sent ID cards at the same time. 
Each student may present only one 
additional ID card. Married stu­
dents may procure their tickets 
along with their classes. St. Mary's 
students who were n<>tified that 
they would be receiving tickets can 
pick them up along with their 
classes. This distribution is only for 
student tickets that were purchas­
ed during the summer. Students 
who purchased tickets earlier in the 
school year will be notified by the 
Ticket Manager. No tickets are 
available for sale. 
Tickets for the November 18 
game against the U.S.S.R. national 
team are not included in the 
student package because the game 
was not scheduled at the time of 
the ticket sale. Students desiring 
tickets for the game, or for the 
Mississippi or St. Joseph games, 
which are scheduled during 
Thanksgiving and Christmas 
break, should report to the the Gate 
10 box office beginning Wednes­
day, Nov. 9 at 9 a.m. The cost for 
each game will be $2 for lower 
arena seats, and $1.50 for bleacher 
seats. Only one ticket per lD card 
per game will be available. 
Tickets are now on sale for the 
Nov. 13 intrasquad charity game. 
All proceeds of the game, which 
starts at 7:30p.m., will be donated 
to the Neighborhood Study and 
Special Olympic programs. Cost is 
SO cents, and the tickets are 
available at Gate 10. Information 
concerning tickets for individual 
home games and away games will 
be forthcoming in the next few 
weeks. 





