
~--------------~--::----~----------------~~~~~.~~ -~~-~~_,...,......--.........__ 
i 
,.,.. -. 


server 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's
Vol. XII, No. 55 

The Notre f?ame Firt; Department ~esponded to a call to extinguish a burning car on juniper Road early last mght. lnd1ana State Pohce also appeared on the scene to investigate the cause of the blaze. [Photo by john Calcutt.] 
Hesburgh gets ambassador rank 
Fr. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of the University of Notre Dame, has been confirmed by the Senate for the rank of ambassador for the tenure of his service as chairman of the U.S. delegation to the United Nations Conference on Science and Tech­nology for Development in 1979. 
In a transcript of the confirma­tion hearing released this week, Hesburgh is quoted as describing the conference as one ''that will look at the whole field of science and technology to see howit might be used to help the developing countries, especially the poorest of them." 
Asked by Sen. Charles Percy transter of "appropriate technol­(R., Ill.) whether the conference ogy" to developing countries, lest would deal also with human rights, they repeat some of the problems Hesburgh replied: "I am sure it of industrially advanced nations, will, at least in an indirect sense. such as "conspicuous consumption One of the basic human rights, of of energy." Hesburgh replied: "I course, is the economic and social have often thought that we try to right to make a living, to be establish a Cadillac civilization employed, to have a decent home, around the world when many to have an opportunity to develop people would be satisfied with a oneself." He added,"All of these bicycle. In fact, that might be all rights, in the economic and the the happier because they would not social orders, are certainly within be able to buy fuel for the Cadillac the focus of this conference. or have roads for it. The important Science and technology can pro­thing is that each country make its mote many of them a great deal." own plans on the kind of develop­
Percy also asked whether consid-ment it needs," he explained. "In eration would be to the China, for example, the people are 
satisfied with barefoot doctors, because they meet their particular needs. We may have to have a big 
SPECIAL BULLETIN 
THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
clinic ourselves because that is 
what we are used to. but there is a 
whole spectrum of needs that can 
22, 1977 
[Continued on page 3] 
There< are Christmas hazat'ds,-"'w;;u ..,....;:; 
care,and R+,.·l"i"i.t"{i;{;;.,' of the such 
Tuesday, November 29, 1977 

Financial need dropped as R.A. requirement 
by Marian Ulicny 
Senior Staff Reporter 
Financial need will not be a 
primary criterion for selecting resi­
dent assistants (RA's) for the 
1978-79 academic year, according 
to Fr. Gregory Green, assistant 
vice-president for student affairs. 
Last year, the financial require­ment for RA selection met with opposition from hall rectors. "It's always been a practice of rectors to remain sensitive to the students' needs, and they felt that the people's qualities to fill them are not demonstrated on a financial form," Green stated. 
However, University officers preferred the new policy because ''they wanted to be sensitive to the large number of students here who display some sort of need,"Green explained. Consequently, he or­ganized a task force during the summer to study "the feasibility of implementing a financial need basis into the selection of RA's." The group consisted of Green; Mary Oare McCabe, director of staff and student development; Sr. Jean Lenz, Farley rectress; Sr. Vivian Whitehead, Breen-Phillips rectress; Fr. Matthew Miceli, Cav­anaugh rector; Fr. Mario Pedi, St. Ed's rector; and Fr. George Wiskir­chen, Holy Cross rector. 
"The University policy on stu­dent jobs was our principal con­cern,'' Green noted. This policy states that "all University student employment shall be based on financial need,'' with graduate and research assistants being the only exceptions. 
Green explained the time lag as the main reason for rejecting the financial need requirement. To show officially documented finan­cial need, an RA applicant would receive a Parents' Confidential Statement (PCS). PCS forms, avail­able in early December, would be forwarded to the applicants' homes, usually being completed by the applicants' parents in six to eight weeks. They would then be sent to Princeton where official review would take three to four weeks; "When the results would finally be sent back to our office for additional review, it would be April," Green estimated, adding "Usually 300 persons apply, an«J there's simply not enough time left to interview them all." 
"We could start to interview before getting the final PCS re­sults, but why should a student have to go through the ;tpplication process, be interviewed, and then find out he's not qualified?" Green continued. 
University officers reviewed the task force's findings and decided early this mor.th that financial need for RA's was not a workable method for selection. "We felt very strongly that the caliber of student needed for an RA was the same caliberneededfor a teaching assis­tant or a grad assistant," Pedi, a task force member, stated, adding, "In some ways, personal qualifica­tions are even more important for an RA because there's a lot of, counselling going on." 
Rectors agreed with the process of selecting RA's on the basis of personal qualifications. According to Sr. Verene Girmscheid, Badin rectress, "Residential life for stu­dents is important, and a qualified staff is vital in developing the right atmosphere. It's very important to have top-notch students for the RA jobs." 
Fr. Raymond Holtz, Morrissey 
rector, agreed that personal qualifi­
cations should be given primary 
consideration in choosing RA's. "I 
think financial need should be 
taken into consideration only if 
other things are equal," he com­
mented. 
RA applications will be available 
in the Student Affairs Office, 312 
Administration Building, from Dec. 
1 to Jan. 20 The deadline for filing 
an application is Jan. 30. 
The applicant must be a senior or 
graduate student next year. In 
addition, he/she must have at least 
a 3.0 grade point average (GPA) at 
the end of this semester and must 
not have any other job responsibili­
ties for the time served as an RA. 
The application requires general 
personal and academic informa­
tion, with separate sections on job 
experience and extra-curricular ac­
tivities. A personal statement on 
the applicant's motivation for ap­
plying and three letters of recom­
mendation from hall staff person­
nel and a former emp,oyer are 
required. Applicants ·will also be 
asked to list three halls in order of 
preference in which they would like 
to serve. A brief section on 
2] 

James A; Roemer St. Mary's and Notre Dame have had an easy winter so far this year, but not this weekend! A Dean of Students snowstorm, beginning and continuing through Sunday afternoon dropped over 
20 inches on South ' · 

the observer Tuesday, November 29, 1977 



News Briefs_____ 

Mideast talks abound 
JERUSALEM • Prime Minister Menahem Begin formally accepted 
Egyptian President Anwar Sadat's invitation to a preliminary peace 
conference in Cairo and named two top aides to represent Israel. 
But there was still no indication anyone else would go to Cairo. 
Syria announced it intended to attend an anti-Sadat mini-summ~t 
called by Libya for Thursday, while Iraz unexpectedly announced tt 
to would host a conference of Arab hardliners in Bagdhad. 
t=::============================== National 
Trade de_ficit recorded 
WASHINGTON-A dock strike made October the nation's worst trade month on record, as the nation bought $3.1 billion more in goods than it sold abroad, the Commerce Department said 
. yesterday. 

Student snacks delivered 
(NOCR] • Nighttime snack service was desired by U. of Hawaii stu­dents, a survey discovered early this fall. So now the campus cafeteria offers wun tun min, barbeque sticks, teriyaki burgers and "Mad Man" pizza--all delivered to dorm rooms. 


Weather 

An SO-percent chance of snow gradually changing to rain today and 
continuing as intermittent periods of rain tonight and tomorrow. 
Highs today and tomorrown in the upper 30's to around 40. Lows 
tonight in the mid-30's. 

On Campus Today_ ____,. 
12:15 pm 4:15pm 
6:30pm 7, 9:15 and 
11:30 pm 7:30pm 7:30pm 
7:30pm 
wednesday 
12:15 am 
6:30 am 

*The Observer 
Night Editor: Leigh Tunakan Asst. Night Editor: Marti Hogan & Kathy Mills editorial layout: Carmen Car­bone Sports layout: Greg "Jour­nal" Solman, co-starring "The Italian Stallion" Typists: Gwen Coleman, sue Scribner, Mary jo Cushing, Lisa DiValerio Night Controller: Mike Bodle 
Day Editor: iack Pizzolato Copy Reader: Chris "Dazzle" Datzman 
Photographer: Julie Palafox 
The Observer is publiallecl Mon­dey tllrouell Frldey except durtne exem end voation periods. Tl)e Observer Ia publlallecl by tile students of Notre Deme end Selnt Mery'a Colleee. Subscriptions mey be purdlnecl for UO per ye.,. ($1 0 per Hmeator) from The Observer, P.O. lox Q, Notre Demo, tndiene 4US6. Second dna post..e peld, Notre Demo, lndlena, 4US6. . The Observer is e member Of 
tile Anoctetecl ..,..... All repro­duction rftllts.,.. reHrved. 
.... ~.... ., ..._... "..... "' ............-. ._,.._., ..._ 
advent mass, fr. robert griffin celebrant, Iafortune ballroom. 
meeting, american professors for peace in middle east will discuss recent developments, library lounge, open to all. 
film, "dietrich bonhoeffer, modern theologian and patriot," howard hall, free. 
film, fellini's "satyricon," sponsored by the student union, eng. aud., admission $1. 
charismatic eucharist, log chapel, open to all. 
lecture, "gospel of luke," part of the "story and theology" lecture and discussion series, room 247, madeleva hall. 
talk by notre dame head basketball coach richard "digger" phelps, sponsored by fisher hall academic commission, fisher hall basement. 
nocturne nightflight, joan luttmer plays progressive rock and jazz, wsnd-fm 88.9. 
am this morning with jeff hebig, sue ursitti and wendy griffin, wsnd-am 640. 


r---------------------···---., 

1 

STUDENT UNION SOCIAL COM I 
9pm-1 am I INVITES YOU TO' I1-------------____,...--------i I Do I IIIII-with I THE GREAT HALL of CENTURY CENTER SOUTH BEND
I CHEECH &CHONG I
I I
With spedal guests "The Klee Bros." 
Tickets $7.00 

I SATURDAY DECEMBER3rd, 8 pm 1 I STEPAN CENTEf;t I 
1 Tickets $3.75 at Ticket Office I Last Day for Ticket Sales Nov. 30


1.----­

andL8iYJrCi!y\BI£2Qt\-,-_.._.....J L-------------------~~----------~~77~~~~~·· 
•• .. • ••• _.,,. • • • ~ , •• ,..... ~ •. ....... '· ................f:lo '~.c.. «. , • •• ... ... fl.•. , ~ • \ • , •• • • .. •... ' • , , , • #'. '· ';J•' ·. .:.to• ;:.• ....... 
Urchins,'' celebration features Christmas tree-lighting, party 
"Ifyou are a child, or you know a child, or you feel like being a child yourself on this saint's day herald­ing Christmas--and you would like Kris Kringle to be a part of the child's holiday innocence and your own--please be a joiner of the urchins' celebration," invites Fr. !Robert Griffin. 
On the feast of St. Nicholas, Dec. 6, the University Christmas tree will be blessed and lighted on the quad in front of the Main Building at 7 p.m. The tree-lighting will be followed by a party in LaFortune Ballroom for the St. Mary's and Notre Dame children (that is, the children of staff, facultv, students and workers), on the nitme-day of their patron saint. This celebration is open to all members of the Notre Dame-St. Mary's community. 
So that this event can be planned with appropriate insight, parents and children planning to attend are asked to send a card to Fr. Robert Griffin, the University Chaplain, to say they are coming. 
"We are excited about gathering together as many of our children as possible for this saint's day cele­bration. We have a number of surprises planned, and, of course, 
Rectors to select 
final candidates 
(Continued from page 1] financial aid must be completed. "This is to help the rectors make their choices. If they intf:rview two equally qualified people, they'll want to go with the one with greater financial need.,'' Green explained. Green and McCabe will briefly screen the applications, checking for the minimum GPA and comple­tion of all sections on the form. They will notify those who qualify initially and send their names to the rectors of the halls listed in their applications. Within a week, the students must contact the rector to plan an interview time. "If they fail to call the rector, he or she won't call them. That muclh respon­sibility, atleast, is needed," Green stressed. After completing the personal illlterviews, rectors will supmit their choices to the Student Affairs Office. "These will be considered the final candidates if no outlandish or undesireable information about them has reached us," Green stated. He will send out letters of appointment on April 5. Green stated that students inter­ested in applying may contact him or their rectors if they have questions or wish additional infor­mation. 
Griffin celeb,rates daily Advent mass 
Daily Mass during Advent will be offered! in LaFortum: ballroom from Monday through Friday at 
12:15. Fr. Robert Gdffin will c,eJebrate the masses. 
THE 

CAUCASI~~~N 
CHALK CIRCLE 
Bredlt's Parable of justice and true belonging 
~rriler 2,J,f1,9,10 ata:OO p.m. All seats $2.50 ($2 Std-Fac-Staff) 
Phone: 

there will be a visit from Santa trees in the halls," Griffin said, "it Claus," said Griffin. "We would seems like a good idea to have a be helped by being told the Christmas tree that belongs to I 
number of guests we can expect, so everybody, in a place where the that we can do some careful whole campus can see and enjoy it. I planning. Students who love We want to see and enjoy tht children and are hterested in children, too, at this holy season. helping out are also asked to get in The best way to do it seems to be a ~ 
touch  with  me.  I  live  in  101 party."  
Keenan; phone: added. The University  283-7066," Christmas  he tree  The expenses and costs of the evening are being paid for by the Notre Dame Student Government i  

was lighted for the first time last and the Notre Dame-St. Mary's year. "Since we cannot have live chapter of Right-to-Life. 
:.ll, John MoanrsDh•a'a"monds 
l' •. 
:~ 

. . . '\ 
Chapter 4: Welcome to My Laboratory 
I'm certain that many among you 
know your way around the labora­
tory. The chemical viles, beakers 
and cloud chambers are probably 
old hat to you, especially if you 
major in the sciences. 
But have you ever been inside a 
gemological laboratory? If not, 
please consider this your invita­
tion. 
To be honest, my lab is quite 
modest by university standards. 
ln fact, it consists of only one 
counter, filled with the latest in 
gemological instrumentation. 
With these microscopes, Metler 
Balances, Proportion Scopes and 
other pieces of apparatus, I can 
tell you just about everything 
there is to know about your 
engagement diamond. And to let 
you know that I'm not just 
"blowing smoke", I encourage 
you to examine your stone per­
sonally. 
For example, the law demands that diamond quality be deter­mined by an "expert". who views the diamond "in normal lighting through tenpower magnifica­tion". Therefore, I will place your selection under a tenpower micro­scope for your inspection. Then (and this is not a legal require­ment), I will transfer your stone to a 280-power trinocular research microscope, through which you can easily see any flaws within its structure. 
After you have seen the "degree of imperfection'' of your diamond (as I mentioned in an earlier column, there are no "perfect" diamonds), we will place it on the Metler Balance. With this precise instrument, you will be able to exactly determine its weight in milligrams. To calculate carat weight, simply remember the formula: 2 mg. equals 1 point; 100 points equal 1 carat. 
If you so desire, we can also check the symmetry of your intended purchase on a GIA Proportion Scope, which is accur­
ate within fractions of a degree. 
che~c=k~t~h~e----------~--------------~ 
ND-SMC unior Class 


Formal 

"Winters l<iss" 

Saturday, December 3, 1977 
internal refraction pattern of your diamond with Gemprlnt appara­tus. Only a handful of these sophisticated lasar beam instru­
ments are to be found in the 
Midwest, and they are now 
considered the only court-admis­
sable form of evidence recognized 
by legal authorities in cases 
concerning lost or stolen gem­
stones. Gemprlnt literally shoots 
a lasar beam into your diamond or 
other transparent gemstone, re­
fracts its internal pattern into 
thousands of tiny dots, and 
photographs the pattern for per­
manent identification. 
Now, technology aside, time for 
one of my pet gripes concerning 
jewelers in general. Far too many 
of them (there are exceptions, of 
course), expect you to take their 
word for the quality of their 
merchandise. They offer you no 
testing equipment, no legally­
binding appraisal, no validation 
that your stone justifies its price. 
Many of these people, in fact, are 
nothing more than salesmen who 
couldn't tell a $100 Mexican fire 
opal from a $2,000 Burma ruby if 
their jobs depended on it. A point 
for you to ponder: just because a 
man stands behind a jewelry 
case, does that necessarily make 
him an expert on the contents of 
that case? 
At Diamond Import Company, I expect you to demand proof of quality before you pay for your engagement diamond. That's why I make the tools of the Gemologists' trade available to 
you. 
If you are interested in knowing more about what goes on inside your diamond, or if you would like a personal introduction to our laboratory facilities, please feel free to contact me at Diamond Import Company. Our establish­mentis located in the lobby of the St. Joseph Bank Building in downtown South Bend, and our telephone number is 287-1427. 
Next week, my last collumn of the semester deals with the six rules of buying an engagement ring. 
(This is an advertisement.) 


Tuesday, November 29, 1977 the observer 
3 

McClellan dies at 81 ; Senate loses a leader 
Washington [AP]-With the death yesterday of John L. McClel­lan of Arkansas, the Senate lost the chairman of its powerful Appro­priations Committee and the chief sponsor of most of the major anti-crime legislation of recent years. 
The 81 year old senator, who announced a week ago he would not run next year for a seventh six-year term. died in his sleep in his apartment in Little Rock. His body was found by his wife about 6:30a.m. 
McClellan was a conservative pillar of the Senate establishment and was renowned for his investi-
Sociology forum set for spring 
by Lou Severino 

Plans are underway for the Notre Dame Sociological Research Con­vention which will provide a forum for the presentation of graduate and undergraduate sociological re­search for students in midwestern universities and colleges. 
The convention, sponsored by 
the Sociology Club and the Epsilon 
Chapter of the Alpha Kappa Delta 
Society is scheduled for April 7-8 in 
Stepan Center. 
"The main goal of the conven­
tion is to get people together to 
read each other's research," said 
publicity director Paul Callahan. 
''Through this forum we hope to spark new ideas and also correct flaws in student research," he added. 
This year's convention has been expanded and will include students from many midwestern schools. Last year, over 200 persons from 24 school participated, and over 40 research papers were presented. Landry plans to expand the conven­tion by issuing invitations to schools outside the Michigan-In­diana-Illinois area. 
The Sociology Club, which has 45 members, also has plans for a mini-convention to be held in mid-February. 
Callahan said, "We are asking for papers from Notre Dame stu­dents on sociological topics to be read at this convention. The 
sinning papers as selected by the 
sociology faculty will be presented 
at the April convention and will be 
submitted to the North Central 
Sociological Association Paper 
Contest. 
" Callahan stressed the fact that 
any student's paper is eligible for 
this contest provided that it deals 
with a topic of a sociological nature. 
The Club has also conducted a 
survey of Notre Dame graduates 
who majored in sociology. The 
results showed that 96 percent earn 
over $12.000 and 40.2 percent over 
$30,000. According to Callahan, 75 
percent of these sociology grad­
uates went on to earn a higher 
degree. Among the positions held 
by these graduates are Vice Presi­
dent of RCA, New York State 
Supreme Court Justice, Special 
U.S. Attorney. A significant number of the graduates went on to careers in law, social work, crim­inal justice and business. 
Callahan also reported that the club was planning a careers night program to be held in late January or February. 
"Representatives who are socio­logy grads will talk to students about careers in fields such as law, social work, management and bus­iness," said Callahan. 
Hesburgh appt. confirmed 
[Continued from page 1] 
be met much more modestly in 
many parts of the world and which 
would be much more satisfactory ot 
the people there," he concluded. 
Hesburgh said a Washington­based steering committee, headed by Ambassador Jean Wilkowski, who formerly headed the U.S. delegation to Ghana, is already at work coordinating the formation of American policy on matters to be covered by the meeting. 
McCarthy's one-man rule, staying · attorney general when his brother, out for nearly six months until he John, became president. John won concessions. Kennedy was then a senator and as 
'McClellan brought in as the a member of the subcommittee subcommittee's counsel Robert F. took part in its investigation of the Kennedy, who later was to become Teamsters Union .. 
The Religious and Academic Commissions of Howard Hall 
present a one hour film on 

Dietrich Bonhoeffer 
free 


--------------------------·-------r-------,=·~·=-~·~------------.------~-----, 





P.O. BOX Q 
CIA On 

Campus 
Dear Editor: 

We the undersigned would like to express our profound dismay to learn that the Central In~elligence Agency has been welcomed to the Notre Dame campus for recruiting purposes. The illegal and unjust activities of this government organ­ization have been so well-docu­mented through governmental testimony and inside reports that they can no loner be ignored or denied. The CIA's indiscriminate spying on U.S. and foreign citizens, its plots to assassinate foreign leaders, and its collusion with oppressive secret police forces in other countries are now public knowledge. Former CIA Director Richard Helm's recent fine for perjury and his jubilant reception by CIA agents immediately after­wards only underline the "Com­pany's" history of chronic lying and deception. 
We do not at this time question the University's right to allow any organization it pleases to recruit 
-Notre Dame graduates. We do, however, feel a certain responsi­bility to keep ourselves and others informed about the agency's activities in hopes that this know­ledge can perhaps assist in cur­tailing furthur abuses of power under the rallying cry of "national security". By publicly expressing our concern about and disagree­ment with the CIA's presence on the Notre Dame campus, we add our names to the long list of people in all parts of the globe who have engaged in similu protests. 

Never Alone 
in South Bend 
Dear Editor: 

This is an open letter to the Notre Dame Community: Many thanks to all of you who prayed for, and visited my son, 
DOONESBURY 

Andrew, during his recent hospital 
stay. 
Your kindness to me was over­

whelming. Although I came as a 
stranger to you and South Bend, I 
never felt alone. Everyone I met 
went out of their way to be 
thoughtful and comforting. 
Please forgive me for using the news media to thank you. It seems so impersonal after your kindness, but I did not know any other way to reach each of you. 
I am certain that it was the power of your prayers which has made Andrew's progress so rapid. 
With God's continued help, he will be back at school soon. 
[Mrs.] Frau Entwistle 

More Thanks To Students 
Dear Editor: 
As a follow up to the collection of tickets for the Air Force game, Notre Dame Big Brothers would like to extend thanks to all who contributed to the cause. The student response was so good that our demand was met after only three days of ticket collection at the dining halls. 
We also thank Art Koebel and the council for the retarded . for their cooperation. Altogether, it was a good effort by everyone who participated. It is a good thing to make a kid happy. 



Security: Get With It 

Dellr Editor: 
The instances of the past few weeks have alarmed and terrified the women of the ND-SMC community. Yet they are similar to many instances which occurred last year and the year before. A few weeks of furor always seem to follow, but then what? People forget and ''well, it could never happen to me" runs through many heads. We have a responsibility to each other to face the problem of rape and hall intruders, to deal with at and, in turn to solve it. 
by Garry Trudeau 
AMAZING! tiE )(}() HAO tET YOU Gth5 60 MJ.IIJEAI LIVE 0V C4MPtJs WAS SO 
~ AIVN/le, IINP Vt{)E()­
YOl/ eNO liP ON GEJ.JtC­THe CVENIN5 NEJJJS! {)([) 'tOO? I I 

In speaking with a security man in my hall a week ago he readily agreed more protection, more men, and more training are necesury. One can walk from the architecture building to the north quad any night and see at least three burned out lights and numerous places needing illumination. I love the Golden Dome and its nightime beauty, but I also love my security. How about a few more lights in a few places that are a little ''less inspiring"? 
Notre Dame is a growing com­munity; the population of women is growing along with everything else. Why can't Notre Dame security be allowed to grow along with the rest of the school? The incident which took place in Farley Hall that Friday night is just another example of the frightening need for more up-dated, increased protection. The demand is here, and increasing; why not be sup­plied with more security? The time has come to face the fact that Notre Dame has ugly problems as well as finer points. Notre Dame is a modem, expanding communiity. I think it is time the Notre Dame security force also reflected a 1977 image. 
P.J. Kane 

Fc'Jr Securi1~y 
Dear Editor: 
With all the recent controversy over how the women at Notre Dame should protect themselves from rapists, why doesn't security coop­erate? For example, just this past week a lone 2:1-year-old maJ,e was allowed to drive his car on campus, after hours, without leaving his driver's license. Granted, I was glad this friend of mine was a.ble to drive right up to my dorm to come visit me, but what if he wasn't anyone's friend? He explained to me that he looked so distraught, trying to find the campus in the first place, but I say that's ~111 the more reason not to let him on campus. Yet if he had had a D-1 sticker, or any other student ]park­ing sticker, he would not have been allowed on campus after 6p.m. or before 6a.m. without giving his license to the guard. 
I'm not saying don't let fathers and alumni on campus, but a lone male whether pizza man, ta:li cab driver, or whoever--should have to at least give some form of identifi­cation. They're so worried about students parking overnight on campus, they forget they can trace us and give us a ticket. Any out-of-state driver can just lip up the ticket and laugh. Why is security protecting us from fellow students instead of from strangers? 
Mary Elizabeth lEmlch Patty Dond.nnvllle 
Work For Today an(d 
Tomorrov~ 
Dear Editor: 
I would lite to respond to Marily Reed Holscher, whose letter appeared concerning admortitions reguding rape. I do not C01Dsider myself a sem1, and certaitlly do not regard rape as a tolerable social function. However, I must object to Ms. Holscher's comment that "the solution is not within cbangin the ru..'tions of women •.. it is ·within changing the fabric of an entire 
.society which still regards women 
as weak creatures fitting to be 
liictimized." 
~* ..,


The Observer 
an independent student newspdper serving notre dame and st. mary·., 

The Observer is published by students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Ed1tonal Board. Commentaries. opinions and letters are the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the commun1ty, and letters are enco_uraged to promote the free expression of varying opm1ons on campus. 
EDITORIAL BOARD 
Marti Hogan Editor-in-Chief Martha Fanning Managing Editor Bob Brink Asst Mandging Ed. Kathy Mills Executive Editor Maureen Flynn Editorial Editor Barb Breitenstein Exec. News Editor Jean Powlev St. Mary's Editor Katie Kerwin News Editor Barb Langhenry News Editor Paul Stevemon Sports Editor Pat Cole Special Projects Ed Tony Pace Features Editor 
Monday, September 12, 1977 

I sympathize with any woman who is fighting mad that there are berserk men who find some sick pleasure in terrorizing women. It is abhorrent and a disgrace to human society. Nevertheless, no matter how disgustingly evil we make rape sound (I shiver when I think what has taken place) and no matter how many times the public is made aware of its ugly circumstances, society changes slowly--sometimes too slowly--and so the problem still exists. We cannot simply "wish" it away, but must take positive action to safeguard--yes, safeguard --our women. For every woman like yourself who "reject(s) this 
type of admonition (that) women 
must play it safe and be cautious", I'd bet a dime on a dollar there are hundreds against you who are playing it as safe as they can. 
We are all caught, both men and women, between finding a lasting solution and dealing with the immediate danger today. There are definite precautions which must be taken by any alert woman. Those who walk about at night may not be "asking for it", but they certainly might "get it" just the same. Let's face it. rape exists. Wake up. women! Work to change sexist attitudes, but don't put down your guard until the enemy is beaten. 
JOieph A. Yanlkosld 

opinion!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
Bounded Justice 
---~iiiiiiiiiiii;ose a. bracamonte 
Amid the apologetics of Mary T. Ryan's letter (11-18-77) she touched upon important aspects of the current unionization efforts by Notre Dame employees. I feel that some of her premises and conclu­sions need to be further discussed and more closely scrutinized. So at the risk of having my comments deemed "fanatic", I will comment on some of the more salient points of her letter. 
Notre Dame was superficially dichotomized into a 1) Catholic and 
2) Financial institution. Thus, the argument goes, "money is what keeps the University open" and we must function within the con­straints of "bounded capital". Consequently, the University can­not be as "benevolent and generous" as would wish, with the inevitable dilemma of "either your tuition goes up, (or) we lose some of the distinguished faculty ..." 
This argument not only totally dismisses the responsibilities imposed by the "Catholic dimen­sion of this institution, it also erroneously extrapolates the re-suit~ of paying this University's workers a livable wage. The suggestion that the payment of a decent wage would result in a choice between a tuition increase or losing members of our faculty is ridiculous. Obviously, the admin­istration must financially function within the limits of the capital it possesses, but that is not to say it cannot pay a responsible wage within those limits, let alone having to dismiss faculty. A study of this issue, involving unionized faculty, shows that tuition does not go up any more at unionized universities than at non-unionized universities (see: HJaher Edacatlon ud Nat­1oaa1 Affairs, Jan. 30, 1976). This ugument, based on suspect finan­cial reasons, would have us subju­gate established Catholic doctrine on social justice to the exegesis of 
tJte balance sheet. • . 
We are implored to accept 
"stone cold reality" as justification 
for injustice. Perhaps it would be 
salutary to look at "stone cold 
reality". The groundskeepers at 
Notre Dame, working forty or more 
hours a week, barely manage to eke 
out an existence. Some are actually 
below the poverty line as estab­
lished by the Federal Government 
Department of Labor Poverty 
Guidelines, April1, 1977. The rest 
of these workers hover right around 
these guidelines that reflect so 
dismal an existence. There is a 
certain coldness to reality when one 
of these workers is quoted in the 
media as saying, "Many times we 
don't eat". 
A statement was made in the 
letter that the Teamsters were "so 
easily let in" by "the good inten­
tions of some conscientious student 
group". First, the administration's 
use of the typicalanti-union tactics, 
such as: urging that a group of 21 
be swallowed up by a group 20 
times that size; announcing a wage 
increase in the middle of a unioni­
zation campaign; hiring a nation­
ally known anti-union law firm; and 
subcontracting out a whole unit of 
its employees, has hardly made the 
representation of the workers 
"easy". Secondly, the Teamsters 
are not even "in" due to the 
administration's failure to keep its 
Oct. 14 promise of an election for 
the groundskeepers. Finally, it 
should be made clear that the 
Groundskeepers Rights C?alition 
had no input as to the selection of a 
representative by the workers. 
However, the Groundskeepers 
Rights Coalition does respect the workers' rights to choose the ·representative of their choice, and we urge the administration to do likewise by calling for an election 
for the 21 groundskeepers. . 
We should not allow· an ill-. 
conceived notion of''bounded capi-· 
tal" to justify a "bounded justice". 
' 

---------~---­

, -~ 
... 

' Tuesday, November 29, 19n the observer 5 ' 

---Campus Briefs--­
Bicycle storage at stadium this week 
The Lost and Found office will 

accept bicycles for winter storage 
tomorrow through Friday. Those 
wishing to store their bicycles for 
the winter should bring them to 
Gate 14 of the stadium from 1:30 to 
4 on these three days. 
There will be no charge for 

bicycles which have been regis­
tered with the Lost and Found 
office; unregistered bicycles will be 
charged S1 for storage. 
Bicycles should be registered at 

the Lost and Found office between 
the hours of 8am and 8pm any day 
this week. The office is located in 
Room 121 of the Administration 
Building. 
Madrigal dinners open Yule season 
From the entrance of the Lord of 

Misrule, to the bearing aloft of the 
boar's head; from the first sip from 
the wassail bowl. to the last bite of 
the puddying of plommes; from the 
first trumpeted fanfare, to the final 
note of the comic opera, gaiety, 
feasting, warmth and color reign at 
the annual Christmas Madrigal 
Dinners of Saint Mary's College. 
The dinners will be presented 

from Thursday through Monday for 
all who are looking for an early lift 
to their Christmas spirits witn a 
reminder of the ancient lineage of 
so many of our Yuletide traditions. 
The Madrigal Singers, resplen­

dent in Renaissance costume, re­
gale the guests throughout the 
dinner in procession and from the 
head table where they enjoy the 
feast themselves. For the delecta· 
tion of those present there is 
instrumental music, dance and the 
annual comic production which 
crowns the evening. This year's 
opera will be •'The Victorious 
Bridegroom" by Charles Lecocq. It 
has been adapted by Susan Ste­
vens, music department chairman, 
and edited into a 35 minute version 
which captures all the musical and 
comic highlights of the original 
opera. 
Arthur Lawrence of the music 

department reigns over the even­
ing as the Lord of Misrule. 
Students of the St. Mary's Colleg­
iate Choir and the Women's Chor­
us act as servers. The menu for the 
Madrigal Dinner includes baron of 
beef au jus, pommes de terre 
y-rosted, carottes endored, winter 
sallet of pommys morles, smallage 
and nottes, wastylbrede, puddying 
of plommes and wassail. 
Some seats are still available for 

Friday and Saturday nights; more 
are available for Thursday, Sunday 
and Monday. Tickets are $10 for 
the entire evening, including din­
ner and may be reserved by calling 
the Saint Mary's ticket office at 
284-4176, Monday-Friday, 9 a.m.­
noon and 1-4 p.m. The Madrigal 
Dinners begin at 7:oo p.m. in 
Regina Hall on the campus. 
ND trustee to present report 
Dr. Thomas P. Carney, a trustee 

of the University of Notre Dame, 
will make the public presentation of 
a report on "Chemistry in Medi­
cine--The Legacy and the Responsi­
bility," in Washington, D.C. to­
morrow. 
Carney served as chaicman of the 

American Chemical Society task 
force that produced the 138-page 
book. Some 1,100 individuals have 
been invited to attend the presenta· 
tion, including representatives 
from government, industry, educa­
tional institutions and medicine 
and health-related organizations as 
well as news media. 
Carney, a former executive vice 

president of G.D. Searle & Co., a 
Chicago medical research and pre­
scription drug manufacturing or-. 
ganization, is now president and 
chief exe.cutive officer of Metatech Corporation. He is past national chairman of the American Chemi­cal Society's medicinal division and has served as a member of the executive committee of both the organic and medicinal divisions. 
Prior to his association with Searle, he was with Eli Lilly and Company, Indianapolis, for 20 years. Carney holds the bachelor's degree in chemical engineering from Notre Dame and the master's degree and doctorate in organic chemistry from Pennsylvania State University. He also attended the University of Wisconsin for post­doctorate studies in medicinal chemistry. 
Semi-formal tix still available 
Tickets for the Senior Class 
Semi-Formal are still available in 
the LaFortune Lobby from 1 p.m. to 
4 p.m. today through Friday. 
The dance is scheduled for this 
Friday from 10 p.m.-3 a.m. at the 
Library. Tickets are $12 per couple 
and include a bottle of champagne, 

open bar, hors d'oeuvres, and a located in O'Shaughnessy Hall, on visit from Santa Claus. 
campus. 
Sixrece":Jhired Mu:stell ­
whv~ sholi d s~ 30 minutes 
with a BankofAmerica recruiter. 
SU to sponsor record exchange 
The Student Union Services commission will sponsor a Used Record Exchange similar to the Used Book Exchange. 
Students should drop off records for sale today and tomorrow from 7 pm to 9 pm on the second floor of LaFortune. These records will be on sale Thursday and Friday from 7 pm to 9 pm. On Monday students can pick up their money and unsold records. 
Connor to speak on vase painting 
Peter J. Connor, Senior Lecturer in Classics at the University of Melbourne will present a lecture entitled: Artistic lmltatlon, Assimi­lation and Rivalry: The Case of Oasslcal Greek Vase Painting on Thursday evening at 7:30 p.m., in the Notre Dame Art Gallery. This lecture is open, free of charge to the public. The Art Gallery is 
ft They give It to you straight." 
"No vague promises, no snow jobs.You'll know exactly what posi­tions are open, what's expected of you, what the bank will do for you­and what they won't. It's 30 minutes of give and take. And while you're learning about us, the recruiter is sizing you up. If he decides you're for us, one trip to one of our Bank of America units will produce a final decision in most cases. When the interview is over, you'll have a very good idea what you'll be doing over the next few months-and in the years to come:' 
ft The Bank offers a variety of career opportunities." 
"In California, you'll start as a loan officer and head towards man­aging a community branch. You could be running your own profit center, and dealing directly with prin­cipals of business. Or you could enter the administrative area as a controller, or cashier.There are oppor­tunities, as well, in our Leasing Department and other specialized areas. As a global banker, your first assignment in most cases will be in your home country; but after a time, you'll be iQvolved in multinational transactions throughout the world:' 
ft They don't ftB every nook and cranny with MM.s." 
"Bank of America management knows that MB.A:s are valuable. That's why theychoose us with care-profit comes out of international business. And domestically, we have a solid base of over one thousand branches throughout California:· 
ft Some of the best people in banking work here." 
"When I see the quality of the people who work at Bank of America, it makes me proud to be a member of the team. The professionalism and competence here are simply out­standing. They're looking for people who can meet these high standards. If you want to work with some of the best people in banking, you owe it to yourself to talk to us:· 
Bank of America is actively seeking top-quality MB.als to flU a 

number of specific openings in California and around the world. To arrange for your interview, contact us. 
In San Francisco, Connie Colladay, P.Q Box 37000, San Francisco, CA 94137. 
In New York, Fred Rynders, AsSt. V.P., 299 Park Ave., New York, NY 10017. 
In Chic~, Claudia Luebbers, a -.Jt. V. P. So W k o
~ ••, • ac er r., Chicago,IL 60606. 
· In Los Angeles, Management Recruitment Dept., P.Q Box 3609, Terminal Annex, Los Angeles, CA 90051. 

Our representative wiD be on campus December 7 


··.·

\ ~ i 
and put us to work where we can do the most gooct:' ft It's a young, aggressive company! " 
'~though founded in 1906, weve only been doing business as Bank of America since 1931. That's an 
awfully short time to have become the world's leading bank!" 
ft Look at our annual report! " 
"Don't just look at the $77 billion in assets. Look at the quality of our resources. More than 50% of the 
BANKOFAMERICAm 
An Equal Opportunity Employer 
l 
> 
1 
1 
'j 
l 
1 j 
.
...­



TED NUGENT 

. 
I 

with special guests GOLDEN EARRING 
also LEGS DIAMOND Wed.-December 7-7:30 pm NOTRE DAME ACC , All seats reserved $7°0& $6°0 on sale now at ACC Box Office,ticket office and usual off campus outlets 


..........
____.. ______ ---:..,:.
----~ ----~\ __ 

the observer Tuesday, November 29, 1977 
Rhodesian raids cripple Mozambique bases 
SALISBURY• Rhodesia [AP]­
Rhodesian forces smashed two 
black nationalist bases in Mozam-· 
bique, killed at least 1,200 guerr­
illas and destroyed large quantities 
of war material, the government 
said yesterday. 
The most devastating raids Rho­
desia has conducted across the 
border came as Prime Minister Ian 
Smith was making plans to meet 
with moderate black leaders inside 
the country to discuss eventual 
majority rule. 
The military command said 
ground and air forces launched the 
five-day operation Wednesday 
against the guerrillas' main base 
camp at Chimoio, 54 miles across 
the border, and a second camp in 
Mozambique's northwestern pro­
vince of Tete, 132 miles inside the 
Marxist country. 
One Rhodesian soldier was killed 
and eight were wounded, the 
government said. The raids, the 
fourth operation into Mozambique 
officially acknowledged by Rho­
desia. were conducted "in the 
interests of self defense," the 
military command's communique 
said. 
"Large quantities of war ma­
terial including weapons, vehicles, 
ammunities, fuel, buildings and 
documents were destroyed,'' it 
said. 
Intelligence sources said both of 
the camps were strategic bases for 
guerrillas of Robert Mugabe's Zim­
bahwe African National Union, 
largeSt of the two guerrilla armies 
fighting to topple Prime Minister 
Ian Smith's white minority govern­
ment. 
Officials believe Mugabe has 
about 9,000 men. more than 3,500 
in Rhodesia and the rest in Mozam­
bique. If 1,200 guerrillas were 
killed in the raid, it would mean he 
has lost nearly one fifth of his 
forces. 
The second guerrilla army, the 
Zimbabwe African Peoples' Union 
headed by Joshua Nkomo, is 
estimated to have about 3,000 
men, several hundred inside Rho­
desia and others in neighboring 
Zambia. 
Mozambique closed its 800 mile 
border with Rhodesia in March 
1976 and since that time hostilities 
UNICEF cards on sale 
The lOth annual Christmas card sale is currently in progress in the Memorial Library concourse. 
The sale, sponsored by the Ladies of Notre Dame, women faculty and administrators, will continue through Friday December 9. From 9:30a.m.to 4:30p.m. daily, postcards, stationery,calendars and Christmas cards will be on sale. 
All proceeds will go to UNICEF to provide food, medicine and school supplies to needy children in over 100 countries. 
Waylon Jennings cancelled 
The Waylon Jennings Concert has been cancelled by its promoters due to a lack of ticket sales, according to Joseph Sassano, Asst. Director of the ACC. Refunds for tickets will be available at the ACC Box Office today after 1 p.m. 
need resumes in a hurry? 
rag bond 2 5 -8 1/2 X 1 1 $2. 55 203 N. Maen . So J:\eod. •••.2.8.9.-.6 9Z.
r _ •• • • • 

between the col~iltries have in­Bishop Abel Muzorewa. the Rev. elections. creased steadily as the Maputo Ndabaningi Sithole and Chief Jere­The white population, which has government stepped up its support miah Chirau, the three non-mili­
held political power since the of the guerrillas. tant Rhodesia based nationalist country became a self governingSmith said last week he agreed to leaders, have given qualified ac­colony of Britain in 1923, is 
the principle of one-man, one-vote to the prime minister's
ceptance elections, a major demand of the proposed talks. Initial discussions nationalists, in return for guaran­were expected sometime next week teed safeguards for the country's to lay the groundwork for a formal 268,000 whites. constitutional conference leading to 
PaW Night




Tonight!: 
2 , • ., lor If. 

7 to 3 
outnumbered more than 20 to 1 by the largely disenfranchised blacks. In 1965, Rhodesia broke away from Britain on the issue of black majority rule. 

I. 

a ,,. .. 
$~ 
i 

<. 
Tuesday, November 29, 1977 
the observer 


Panel discussion centers on Irish ooetry 
by Jana Schutt professor at Notre Dame, centered by noting that poetry operates a direct solution, but it is a groping as changing Irish dialect and Three Irish poets conducted an . much of their discussion on Irish through particulars. "Obviously . toward understanding . outlooks. The real unchanging
informal panel discussion yester­poetry as influenced by the political an Irishman has his own set of The poets spoke of modem trends language of the Irishman rests in 
day afternoon on the Irish poet and situation of Ireland. particulars from his environment," and their influences on Irish music, the universal tongue, they
his origins. Thomas Kinsella of Moderator Sean Golden, assis­he said. poetry. They pointed to television concluded. 
Temple University, Richard Mur­tant professor of English at Notre "There is a certain sense of 
phy of the University of Syracuse, Dame, asked, "What constitutes history in Irish poems which is 
and Seamus Deane, a visiting an Irish poet?" Kinsella answered lacking in many other cultures,"
.... explained Murphy. "The poet 
takes a particular interest in the time and place setting. He deals with concrete reality rather than abstract ideas. This is an essential part of Irish literature," added Murphy. 
Deane pointed out that Irish culture is both very traditional and rootless. The three poets agreed that the Irish people have a feeling of dislocation, almost a double identity. 
In the course of the discussion, the poets outlined the course of Irish history. Because of long periods of colonization, the Irish have assimilated many English ways. They have lost their native language. making Irish culture an assumption at best, they said. There is perhaps an ancient root to the race, yet it is buried beneath other cultures, according to the poets.
Ol)lya fewcan 
"No one in the English-speaking world is investigating his identity in the same way that the Irishman

make it to the top. 
is," said Kinsella. The Irishman 
Becoming a Marine officer is no small task. It demands some of the uses poetry to restate the problem Three Irish poets discussed Irish poetry and Ireland's political 
most rugged physical training in the world. Plus academic proficiency. of individuality. It does not lead to situation yesterday afternoon. {Photo by Julie Palafox.]
Military skills. And the unique ability to lead. Only a very few can qualify for Marine officer training. Even fewer can make it. The 
demands are great, but so are the rewards. It's an • ***************************************************~ 
exciting, fulfilling career with good pay and •* * benefits. want to get to the top? Start now. See the 
selection team in LaFortune or the Library today 9 ,,~ ·I FOUND ·IT! E 
a.m.-4 p.m. 

* * 
·~ at the ~ ~N;:;;:;..:D~e.::;;:::;;ig...:..;.;:h~ty::::;..::~;;;;:::;..e~~C!)~/~~p•j NOTRE DAME APARTMENTS ~ 
~0 4.~ ,~ i CLOSE TO CAMPUS! ~ ~0 ...l..Q~~(bo'~~ ~ APARTMENTS STILL A V All.ABLE ~ t;,O-q 'i:J~~t~e0~ £ IMMEDIATE OCCUPANCY ~ ~~~:~··'+-~"\ monday, 11/2B i 2 bedrooms -completely furnished ~ _;G ~~e~ thru thursday, 1211 £ complete kitchen and dining room ~ ' t;n;,• 1 :00-5:00; sophomore E $280 -300/ ~~nth up to 4 students ~ office, LaFortune basement ! call Cand_y at 233-6363 or 234-6647 ~ 
**************************************************~~ 


............. .... --~-·· ---.. •••••• .a ' ~ •• •
. ' .. ~ ... 
-----~--­

L_____.:.___________---L..----------'-----------~--~-------­

~----~~----~------~~~------------~------------~----------~--~.----.·~----------------------~~-------·----•
' •' 4 
' y 
Tuesday, November 29, 1977 
the observer 






Irish make Ole Miss 'whistle Dixie' 
by Frank LaGrotta who sunk four of five from the field Sports Writer and made good on eight of ten from the gift line in route to a 16-point
Notre Dame thrashed Ole Miss, 

performance. Bruce Flowers
111-62 in their season-opener. 

notched 13 points while the Irish
Now, are there any questions? 

point guards, sophomore Rich
What's that...depth? Apparent­

Branning and freshman Stan Wil­
ly that's something Digger does not 

cox were each worth 12 points.
lack. Who was it that said Notre 

Sophomore center Bill Laimbeer
Dame may have had the best 

led Notre Dame's viscious attack on 
recruiting year in the ceuntry? 

the backboards by pulling down
Well, give that perceptive fellow an 

eight rebounds. Flowers, Tri­
"A+" for insight. 

pucka, Jackson and freshman Gil­
Yes. Kelly Tripucka did hit seven 

bert Salinas collected seven caroms
of his nine attempts from the field. 

apiece.
That's right, two of three from the 

For Ole Miss John Stroud was
foul line. too. No, sixteen points 

the hero of a disheartening after­
isn't bad for a freshman making his 

noon. The 6-7 sophomore forward
tnllege debut. Tracy Jackson's six 

made good on 8 of 14 from the field 
of seven from the field was pretty 

and finished the day with a
impressive. too. Right, both Tri­

game-high 18 points. Freshman
pucka and Jackson hauled in seven 

Elston Turner added 11 points to a \
rebounds apiece. Nope. they sure 

Rebel attack that could do no better
doni play like rookies. ~ 
than 40 percent from the field.
What's that? WHO was hurt by 

However, Mississippi coach Bob 
a year layoff'! Bill Laimbeer? 

Weltlich layed most of the blame
Well. if he was he certainly does 

for his club's poor showing on their
hide it well. 

defensive play.
After shooting a fine 62 percent 

''Anytime you let your opponent 
from the floor and outrebounding 

score Ill points you have to Freshman Stan "Silky" Wilcox showed his mettle to 10.825 partisans at the ACC on Saturday.
the Rebels 53-28, one might be 

consider your defensive effort poor. (Photo by John Calcutt.)
tempted to say that Notre Dame 

Of course Notre Dame shot over 60
scored a moral victory over Missis­see action. "I felt very comfortable only conceeded 12 field goals on 31 Pauley Pavillion for their annual
percent from the floor and that's
sippi at the ACC this Saturday no matter who was in the game,'' attempts and held the already­battle with the Bruins of UCLA.
got to hurt any defensive effort." 
past. (Wouldn't it be nice if that related Phelps. "We've got to get paralyzed Rebels to 27 points. The Bears of Baylor invade the
From the opening tipoff to the
victorv cancelled out the 20-13 our players into the game so they Meanwhile the entire Irish contin­ACC this Wednesday with the
final buzzer there was really no
blemish in Notre Dame's gridiron can get experience. A major factor gent had a field day hitting on 22 of tipo.ff slated for 8p.m. and Phelps is 
doubt in the minds of the 10,825
ledger.) Nevertheless, for a coach in our playoff loss to North C~trolina 39 shots to add 53 points to their anxwus for the students to return
spectators who watched Notre
looking to end his season right, last year was lack of depth but first half total. to campus. "We need their
Dame's methodical butchering of
starting it out right is always nice, we've got the personel this year "They really wore us out," support if we're going to accom­
Ole Miss as to the eventual
and just about everything went and all they need is actual game admitted Weltlich. Notre Dame is plish anything. It will sure be great 
outcome of the game.
right for .Phelps and his crew on experience. Of course we've also experienced, they played at home to have them back on Wednes·
The score was close until the
Saturday. got to prepare for a situation like and they have great depth. Thev day."
half-way point of the first half when 
"I really like our scoring and we faced last year when we lost really pounded us."
Dave Batton connected on a 20-foot 
#3 Freshman Orlando

playing balance today," a smiling Dice Martin and Rich (Branning) Are the Jrtsh worth\' of the Game notes:******** 
jumper to initiate a 5-minute spurt 1 
Irish cage coach pointed out. came off the bench to do the job for pre-season rank Sport~ Illustrated Woolridge did not dress for Satur­
which saw the Irish outscore their 
us." day's game due to a strained knee. 
"That kind of balance will help us awarded them?
opponents 20-4.
all year. We had consistent Carrying a 58-35 lead into the "Definitely." points our Weltlich. He is expected to be out for seven
"I was pleased to see this,"
offensive production out of eight or second half, Notre Dame continued "They have everything--size, days. Saturday's win marked 
commented Phelps, "because
nine players and that's the kind of their 11-man rotation as they put on speed coaching--everything. Notre Dame's IOSth victory at the 
when we did jump ahead like that
depth we have to establish." a fine exhibition of defensive They'll be up there at the end ofthe ACC coupled with only 23 losses on The Irish registered five players we established the flow of the basketball. Out-rebounding their season. .. home ground. The victory also 
in the twin-figure category. Be­game." southern opponents 26-17, commit­The Irish face three home con­gave the Irish a bS-8 record in home sides Tripucka's 16, the squad was Phelps substituted liberally in ing only five turnovers and swipinp tests as well as Northwestern at openers. a winning percentage of paced by Don "Duck" Williams the first half allowing 11 players to the ball five times, Notre Dame Evanston, ILL before travelling to .888.
.--------------.......-..~------......-...............-----... 
Notre Dame icers sweep MSU 
*Observer

in weekend series; 4-3, 10-2 
by Paul Stevenson by Russ Welch the Spartans lead­registered 34 saves, compiles :19 on Sporta Edltor ing scorer. But, that was the way In the contest, John Peterson the game was to end as the Irish registered 34 saves, while Mazzo­The Fighting Irish hockey team registered their first victory of the leni compiled 39 on an offensive 
1977 campaign, 4-3. night for the Irish.
earned their first two victories of 



Sports
Moher compiled 20 saves, inclu­"Last night was a very impm1ant 
the 1977 season by sweeping 
Michigan State, 4-3, 10-2. The ding 11 in the final period to win for us," Head Hockey Coach 
double triumph marked the first preserve the Irish conquest. Lefty Smith commented. "Michi­
time the have Spartan goalie, Versical, was ran­gan State has split with everyone
Spartans dropped 

ked fifth in the WCHA, yielding they've played and this convin·cing 
both games of a series. 
State had split their eight pre­only an average of 34 goals per victory tonight is great for our 
·Bowl tickets on sale
confidence."
vious conference battles, having game. 
The Notre Dame icers realized "We had a good balance from all 
logged a 4-4 mark entering the Tickets for Notre Dame and St. 1355 students purchased tickets, 
a three lines," Smith continued.
weekend competition. The Spar­that Saturday night would be Mary's students for the January 2 while for the 1970 game, only 858 tans had skated against North supreme test, since the Spartans "Defensively, played quite Cotton Bowl will go on sale at the student tickets were sold. In the
we Dakota, Minnesota, Michigan and had yet to be swept on a weekend well." second floor ticket window of the six bowl games the Irish have 
"We had excellent goaltending
Michigan Tech in preceding weeks. series. But, the Irish continues ACC according to the following attended, an average of 1475 Led by some excellent defensive their fine defensive play and allow­both nights from John and Len. schedule: tickets have been purchased by the play, Notre Dame was able to edge ed their offense to erupt for ten Both played their strongest games Seniors: Tuesday, December 6 students. This figure includes a 
goals. of the year. Our penalty killing and 
the Spartans, 4-3 in the series Juniors, Graduate and Law Stu­high of 2500 tickets sold for the 
power play were also very good ..
opener. Meredith gave the Irish a lead dents: Wednesday, December 7 1975 Orange bowl, a game in which Michigan State reached the they would never relinquish only 54 The Irish seemed to enjoy the Sophomores: Thursday, December Notre Dame was given 15,500 scoreboard first on an unassisted seconds into the competition. Tom return of both Don Fiarholm uno 8 tickets. shot by right wing Jim Johnson. Weltzin padded the Notre Dame Kevin Nugent to their lineup. Freshmen: Friday, December 9 If 1500 tickets is not enough to However, with only three minutes lead midway through the opening Fairholm had missed last week:' Fifteen hundred tickets will be cover student demand, then, if the remaining in the opening stanza. period with an assist from Don game against Denver due to !me. held for students and issued contributing alumni do not exhaust 
surgery while Nugent had been
Greg Meredith knotted the score at Fairholm and Don Jackson. according to the above priorities or sales, these students who did not 
one, assisted by Geoff Collier and Notre Dame opened the second absent from action the past tw0 untU the supply is exhausted. You receive a ticket will be taken care 
Terry Fairholm. period with three unanswered weekends with an injurt to tht must present your ID card at the of. 
But, less than one minute later, goals. One score by Howe, a Terry rotator cuff in his shoulder. time of the purchase. Remember, these tickets are for 
The Irish, who have scored only 22
State regained the lead on a tally by Fiarholm power play goal and an Students may purchase one personal use only. You have to 
Marty McLaughlin that just es­unbelievable short-handed score by goals in their first eight games reserved seat at $5.00. This have an ID to get in the gate. 
caped the reach of Irish goalie Len Baumgartner gave the Irish a S-0 were able to register 14 tallies or represents a discount of SO percent These 12,000 tickets are less than 
Moher with only 19 seconds left bulge. State finally reached the the weekend series. The suddf from the regular price. Reduced Notre Dame has received in the 
before inter­scoreboard at the 8:14 mark of the burst of offense and the defensh i'.. , based uponpersonal use of past. Since the student demand for 
mission. Kevin Nugent brought second stanza on a power play goal play, holding the Spartans to fi tht" t1cket. You must present your this game has never exceeded 
the Irish pucksters even off the by Welch. scores in two nights while the Not licket and your Notre Dame or St. 1500, that amount was considered 
Dame icers have been yeidling
assist by Jeff Brownchidle and Don But, Brownschidles second goal Mary's identification card at a enough to cover student dema 
F&irholm. The first period ended at of the season gave the Irish a five yielding an average of six goals 1 speci· 1 gate for admission to the 
contest, was a welcome sight.
2-2. goal lead again two minutes later Cott~.... Bowl. Our inadequate The second stanza had but one on an unassisted tally. Then, Notre The Spartans record now falls to ticket supply will not permit more 
4-6 in conference, while Notre
lone score with only 56 seconds left Dame and Michigan State ex­than one ticket per student. 
as Dick Howe eluded Dave Versical changed power play scores by Tony Dame's season standing rises to Box office hours are from 9a.m. to give the Notre Dame icers their Jelacie and Dan Byers to give the 2-8. The Irish now prepare for their to Sp.m. including the noon hour. 
Irish a commanding 7-2 margin series against Michigan Tech this
first lead of the contest, 3-2. Notre Dame has only been · The Irish tallied once more in the after two frames. weekend. "Michigan Tech is al­allotted slightly over 12,000 tickets third period at the 12:56 mark by Notre Dame added three goals in ways tough at home," Smith for the Cotton Bowl. The 1500 Terry Fairholm, being assisted by the final period by Michalek, Terry acknowledged. ''They will give us student tickets is more than the Meredith and Collier. Michigan Fiarholm and a phenomenal score a helluva challenge, but with the amount purchased by the students 
confidenct: we've gained, we
State narrowed the final margin to by Kevin Humphreys past Mark the last two times Notre Dame 
should be able to give them a gooo
only one goal with 16 seconds Mazzoleni. played in the Dallas affair. remaining in the battle on a score In the contest, John Peterson .game.'' :In 'the 1971 Cotton Bowl, only 
AP Top Ten 
I. Texas (49) 2. Oklahoma (5) 3. Alabama (1) 
4. 
Michigan 

5. 
Notre Dame (1) 

6. 
Arkansas 7. Kentucky (1) 


8. Penn State 9.· Ohio State 
10. Pittsburgh 




