Postmaster: Second Class 
Postage paid at Notre Dame, In, 46556 

Hesburgh speaks on birth control 
by Mark Rust 

University President Fr. Theo-. dore Hesburgh told a group of over 300 biology students yesterday that without "hope and ·development of other countries, there is no answer to the population prob­lem." 
Hesburgh received a standing ovation from the crowd after his talk, which focused on the prob­lems of the poplulation explosion and birth control. 
"I'm a Catholic and I'm a priest, but I'm not against birth control," he remarked. "I don't see how anyone could be against it in one form or another." 
Hesburgh used the "spaceship earth" metaphor to explain the delicate problems of a booming population. He compared the situation on earth today to a spaceship with a limited amount of water, air and food, with those resource unevenly distributed and rapidly running out. "There is a limit to how many people we can have because there is a limit to certain supplies, like coal and oil," he said. 
Hesburgh stressed that with the depletion of resources, there is a need to limit the number of people we have on earth. "During the sixties there were 700 million people added in one decade. If that were to continue, in 2077 we would be netting an additional one-billion per year." According to Hesburgh that is something that "even God wouldn't intend." 
"But," he added, "I don't think there is any group in the world that can realistically say that four billion is the ideal number of people we can have on the earth." 
He called the population problem a moral dilemma, which is confused by many misconceptions. "It has come upon us suddenly, and there are many important people in the church that don't understand it yet," he said. 
During the speech, Hesburgh 

Nov 24-27 
Nov 28 Dec 14 Dec 15 Dec 16-22 
Jan 16 Jan 17 Jan 18 Jan 26 Feb 13-17 
Mar 8 
Mar 13-17 Mar 18-27 
Mar 28 Mar 29 Apr 20-27 
May4 MayS May9 May 10-16 May 19-21 ACADEMIC CALENDAR FOR 1977-78 
FALL SEMESTER 1977 Thanksgiving holiday begins at 12:30 p.m. Wednesday, Nov. 23 
Classes resume at 8:00 a.m. Last Class Day Study Day [no examinations] 
F'mal Examinations [No Sunday exams] 
SPRING SEMESTER 1978 
Orientation for new students Registration Day Classes begin at 8:00 a.m. Latest date for all class changes Enrollment reservations for the Fall Semester 
1978-79 

Mldsemester Reports of Deficient Students due in Registrar's Office Room Reservations for Fall Semester 1978-79 Easter Vacation begins after last class Friday, 
March 17 Classes resume at 8:00a.m. Last day for course discontinuance Advance Registration for the Fall Semester 1978-79 
and for the Summer Session 1978 Ascension Thursday [no classes] Last Class Day Study Day [no examinations] Final Examinations [no Sunday exams] Commencement Weekend 
repeatedly drew from his experi­ence in government and his posi­tion on the Overseas Council to back up his premise that there is "no way of controlliing a country's population unless that country is developed." He pointed out that all of the population increases of the past year came from poorer countries. He characterized the four countries that contributed most to this increase--China, India, Pakistan, and Indonesia--as "all underdeveloped with enormous health problems." 
Culture and religion, Hesburgh said, are not the main factors in population control. The lowest common denominator is the devel­opment of the country. "Every developed country in the world controls its population: every undeveloped one does not. You cannot solve the population prob­lem unless you get at the develop­ment problem," he concluded. 
FoUow your own conscience 

"We should have more moral means than we have today for controlling populations,'' Res­burgh stated, turning his attention to birth control. He called the various types of contraception, "a very difficult problem of conflicting judgments.'' 
While stressing his "abhor­rence" to sterilization and abor­tion, Hesburgh left the listeners free to decide what their position should be on other methods. "It's a question in my mind of following your own conscience in this mat­ter," he said. 
Hesburgh cited numerous exam­ples of attempts by governments that failed to control populations. In 1965, he said, AID (Aid for International Development) institu­ted a free distribution program of contraceptives for underdeveloped countries. 
[continued on page 6] 



United Airlines settles flight attendant dispute 
by Val Stefani ratified and that should take about 
a month,'' said Kathy Hunter, a 
The contract dispute between reservation and information agent. 
United Airline flight attendants All flights leaving and returningand the firm's management was to St. Joseph Regional Airpost insettled five minutes before the South Bend during the Thanksgiv­midnight deadline last Frida~ ing break will run as schuduled. 
United Airlines flight attendants Several students booked on United 
threatened to strike after the flights were concerned that the 
corporation refused to meet de­dispute would not be settled before 
mands for increased wages and the break, which begins tomorrow. 
additional benefits. Information "Som~ students called and wereregarding the negotiations and concerned that their flights mightfinal settlement has not been be cancelled. However, we re­released by the corporation yet. 
ceived very few reservation cancel­''The contract must still be lations," Hunter said. 

Darby's Place to offer dinner, entertainment 
Darby's Place will open its doors menu. 
on Thanksgiving Day to members At 8 p.m. the movie, "Dr. 
of the ND-SMC community and Dolittle" will be shown, followed at 
off-campus students remaining at 10 p.m. by another showing of 
school over the upcoming break. "The Last Tycoon." 
Darby's Place is located in theMunchies and refre~hments will Rathskellar of LaFortune Studentbe available beginning at 2 p.m. An Center. Admission is free. 
after showing of "The Last Ty­coon" will start at that time. 

This ,.._,.._..,..,_,..,_,..,..._-4,._,IIJI. 
is a 1977 release based on a novel by F. Scott Fitzgerald. 
At 6 p.m., Fr. Robert Griffin, The University Chaplain and co­proprietor of Darby s Place, will celebrate mass at the Keenan-Stan­ford Chapel. Following the mass, at 7 p.m., the main course will be available at Darby's consisting of fur key, ham and refreshments. Cookies, baked by the Ladies of Notre Dame, and a cake will complete the Thanksgiving Day 


giving and resume regular hours on 

.._--------------------------·' brunch will be open ·· between 


Break hours announced 
noon and 1 p.m. and dinner will be by Bill Delaney 
served at the usual time. St. Mary's students who stay onMany of the facilities at Notre campus will have to pay for eachDame and St. Mary's will close or meal during the holiday until theshorten their hours during Thanks­Sunday night meal. 
giving break. 
On Thanksgiving day there will All students who stay on the be a buffet from 11:45-12:45 a.m. 
Notre Dame campus may eat in the after the Thursday buffet, all meals South Dining Hall. The NorthDining will be in the snack bar untilHall will close after lunch tomor­Sunday night. 
row and reopen again for dinner on On Friday and Saturday thereSunday. 
will be a buffet rdinner from 5-5:45 
The South Dining Hall will have p.m. breakfast will not be served a special dinner on Thanksgiving .. at St. Mary's during break. The from 2:30-5 p.m. and breakfast will snick b~r wi~l serve Sunday lunch be available earlier in the day from fr 12.45-1.45 p.m. 10-11 a.m. On Friday and Saturday e Huddle will close at 10 p.m. breakfast is scheduled from 9-10 to orrow and reopen at noon on a.m., lunch from 12-1 p.m., and Sunday. The South Dining Hall· dinner from 5-6 p.m. Sunday pay cafeteria will close for Thanks­
'' 
Friday. 

The first and second floors of the Memorial Library are scheduled to close at 5 p.m. tomorrow, with the tower remaining open until 10 p·. m. 
The building will be closed on Thanksgiving. Hours for Friday and Saturday will be the same as on Wednesday's. The /library will resume usual hours on Sunday. 
St. Mary's Library will Close tomorrow at 4:30-and reopoen on Sunday at 1 p.m. 
l
Rockne Memorial will close at 10 
p.m. 
tomorrow, reopening on Fri­day and Saturday from 9 a.m. to 10 

p.m. 
Sunday hours will be from 10 


j
a.m. to 9 p.m. 
The A.C.C. will be closed for Thursday, from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. 
j
Friday and Saturday and 1-5 p.m. on Sunday. 
1 
j 
. ~.~.---.--~-.....--~~------__,.---­
2 the oburver Tuesday, November 2~ 1977 
,...News Briefs _____ 
t============================= World Indian storm kills 1100 
NEW DELID, India--A cyclone that battered coastal areas of eastern India for two days and killed at least 1,200 moved out to sea yesterday. Some estimates put t.lte death toll as high as 6000. Property and crop losses were put at more than $6 million and tens o~thousa~ds w~re homeless. The storm lashed 42 towns and fishing vtllages wtth wmds ~f95 mph. Adequ~te warning of an approaching cyclone had been gtven but many vtllages took no precautionary measures, a government statement said. 


Weather 
Partly cloudy today with highs in the mid to upper 30s. Mostly 
cloudy with a 30 percent chance of light rain tonight and tomorrow. 
Lows tonight in the low to mid 30s. Highs tomorrow in the low 40s. 
~On Campus Today_~ 
10 am-4 pm open house, aquatic research facilities within bio. dept., galvin life center, open to the public. 
noon brown bag luncheon, dr. dean a. porter will speak on art collecting, art gallery. 
1:15pm mini-course, "introduction to questionnaire development," bonnie katz, mem. lib. rm. 509, sponsored by social science training and research lab. 
4 pm lecture, "center-periphery relations in an age of global reconstruction." dr. celso furtado,library lounge, sponsored by the dept of economics. 
4:30pm seminar "making it in the film industry," for prospective filmmakers, speaker michael sajbel room 600 memorial library, sponsored by nd-sm~ theatre. 
4:30 lecture, "olfactory imprinting in homing salmon: natural and simulated," by arthur davis hasler, galvin aud, sponsored by bio dept. 
6:30 pm, Career workshop, karen o'neil, Farley basement. 
7,9:15 &11:30 film,' the sting" eng aud $1. 
7:30pm film, "styles in japanese art," international student lounge, basement of Iafortune, sponsored by dept. of modern language. 
7:30 eucharist, charismatic eucharist, log chapel, open to all. 
8:15pm piano recital, michael toth, student crowley hall, open to public. ' 
9 pm mazz,featuring rex delcamp, mike tsubota and a mystery guest, basement of Iafortune, no admission charge. 

Wednesday midnight album hour 
12:15 am nocturne nightflight, joan luttmer plays progressive rock and jazz, wsnd-fm 88.9. 
6:30am am this morning with jeff hebig, sue ursitti, and wendy griffin wsnd-am 640. 

1~----------------------------,
Thanksgiving Day Mass Schedule Thursday Nov. 24 
10:00 a.m.--Mass in the Crypt 11 :JOa.m.--Mass in the Main Church 

The 5:15p.m. Mass in the Mainchurch is cancelled, 
as well as the 5:30p.m. Mass in the Crypt. 


I 

tonight 9-111 Rex Delcamp 

Mike Tsubota and Mystery guest 

Iafortune basement no admission charge 

Cause unkn4)Wn 



Argentine jetliner crashes 
BAKILOCHE, Argentina [API • A chart,red Argentine jetliner carrying honeymooning couples and otlller vacationers to this lake and ski resort crashed dlllring foul weather early yesterday. Austral Airline officials said thc~ll'e were some survivors among the 79 persons aboard. 
The national Noticias At~gentinas and Telam news agencies reported there were at least 40 :mrvivors among the 74 passengers and five crew members. Rescu~~ teams reached the crash scene about 20 miles from here. 
As news of the crash was broadcast on radio and teJe,vision in Buenos Aires, a crowd gathered at the' city airport pleading for infor­mation about relatives aboard., 
"Oh, Go4, please let there be survivors," wept Ana Bergman, whose 23-year-old sister, Paula, was on the airplane with her new husband Saul W eisinge'r. The W eisingers were married on Satur­day and were planning a honey­moon elsewhere. 
"But thP.v rha1Jeed thP.ir plans 

Irish poetts to pres!!n1tsympos1urn 
Three Irish poets will participate in a symposium on contemporary Irish literature on Monday, Nov. 28, on the Notre Dame campus. 
Thomas Kinsella, Richa:rd Mur­phy, and Seamus Deane will partic­ipate in a panel discussion mod­erated by Sean Golden, assistant professor of English, at 4:30 p.m. in the Galvin Life Science auditor· ium. Kinsella and Murphy will follow this discussion with poetry readings at 7:30 p.m. in the Rare Book Room of the Memorial Lib­rary. 

All three poets are currently teaching in American unive:rsities: Kinsella at Temple, Murphy at Syracuse, and Deane, a visiting professor at Notre Dame. Golden has just completed editing an anthology of contemporary Irish literature. 
"Each of the poets involved has responded to current social and political events in Ireland in one way or another in his poetry," Deane noted. "Discussion of such issues will inevitable be an element in their discussion of contemporary Irish literature." 
The symposium will be spon­sored by the ND English Depart­ment, in cooperation with the Studen Union and the Celtic Societv. 

Jennings-Colf·er tix on sale 
Waylon Jennings and Jessie Colt­er will appear in concert on Tuesday, Nov. 29. Tickets are on sale at the ACC Box Office, and the usual outlets. Prices are $7.50 and $6.50. Also appearing at the perfor·mance will be Hank Will­iams. 

Night Editor: Leigh Tuna.kan Asst Night Editor: Rosemary Mills layout Staff: You got hopes! Editorial layout: Carmen Car­bone Features layout: Bob Brink Sports layout: Greg Solman 

Typists: Gwen Coleman, Sue Scribner,Mary Jo Cushing, Stacy Weaver Night Controller: Mike Bodle Day Editor: Tom Nilsson Copy Editor: Tom Byrne Artist: Paul 

The Observer 11 published Ma•lll· day Htrough Friday exc.pt durt111g exam and vacation periods. Tl~e Observer Is published by tllle students of Notnt Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for no per yetr CS 1 0 per semester) from The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Not!'V Dame,. Indiana 46556. Seco111d clan postage paid, Notnt Dam•t, 
Indian•, 4US6. 
. The Observer 11 • member .,f

the Anocl•ted Pntn. All ntpnl­
ductlon rtglltl ant ntaerved. 
1 
after I told them about Bariloche," 
Miss Bergman ,said. 
The British-built BAC-111 twin 
engine jet left Buenos Aires Sun­
day night on a 1,000 mile non-stop 
flight to Bariloche, one of South 
America's most famous resorts, at"' 
the foot of the Andes in southwes­
tern Argentina .near the Chilean 
border. 
Driving rains and high winds were lashing the Bariloche area Sunday night and early Monday and, when the plane failed to arrive on time, a search was begun. 
Noticia Argentineas reported the aircraft experienced landing gear problems while approaching the Bariloche airport. Then the aircraft flew over the airport several times, apparently trying to get the landing gear into position, it said. How­ever, Austral spokesmen could not 
t 
t 
t 
t 
t 

' 
t 
' 
t t 
t 
t 
L 
confirm the report and said they did not know the cause of the crash. 
Austral is a privately owned Argentine company and competes domestically with the state owned airline Aerolineas Argentinas. Aus­tral also flies to Unfkuay. 
There were four foreigners a­board, two Uruguayans and two Brazilians. 
The last civil aviation disaster in Argentina occurred in 1961 when a DC-6 Aerolineas Argentina passen­ger plane crashed 250 miles south of Buenos Aires, killing all 67 aboard. 
In 1975 there were two major crashes of non-commercial planes, one killing 55 military officers and their dependents and another killing 34 oil workers on a flight home after a year of work at drilling '>ites in the south. 


HOW TO SUCCEED IN BUSINESS WITHOUT REALLY TRYING 



SH()W DATf:S 
N()V. 22-26 

DE(~. 6-I I and I ; ~-I B 
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT CENTER STAGE PRODUCTIONS 233-1700 
OR CENTURY CENTER 284-9711 

-----~-­

Tuesday, November 22, 1977 
the observer 
3

'No more war' 




Sadat returns to hero's welcome 

CAIRO [AP] -Egypt's president Anwar Sadat returned horne to a hero's welcome yesterday after opening a new chapter in Middle East history by delivering his message of "no more war" to the Israeli people in their own capital. 
"We've had enough--four wars in 30 years," Sadat told the Israelis at the conclusion of a 44-hour, 16-minute visit on which he had gambled Arab unity, his political future and even his life. 
Hundreds of thousands of Egyptians, many bussed to Cairo airportespecially for the occasion, greeted their returning president with banners reading "Welcome hero of peace," "Long live the 
Cotton Bowl package possible 
The Student Union is pres­
ently negotiating with a local travel 
agency to make a package trip to 
the Cotton Bowl directly available 
to Notre Dame and St. Mary's 
students. 
The package would include a 
charter flight to and from South 
Bend. transportation and hotel 
accomodations in Dallas and a 
ticket to the game. The details are 
still being worked out. according to 
Student Union Director Tom Gryp. 
but more information will be 
released after Thanksgiving break. 


Sadat's overthrow called for 
BEIRUT, Lebanon [API -Palestin-already vowed publicly to.assassin­
ian guerrillas and leftist governed ate him, took particular objection to 
Arab nations called Egyptian Pres-his declaration in Jerusalem that 
ident Anwar Sadat as great an the 1973 war was Egypt's last with 
enemy as Israel and stepped up the Jewish state. 
appeals yesterday for his over· ''This is an outright unilateral 
throw. termination of the state of war 
The Sadat onnonents, who had involving all Arab countries against 
------·~---------------------, 
Weekend Masses-Main Church 
5:15 p.m. Saturday-Rev. Robert Grifflft, esc· 
9 :30 a.m. Sunday-Rev. Richard Conyers, CSC 10.:45 a.m~ Sunday-Rev. Thomas E. Blantz, CSC 
12:15 p.m. Sunday-Rev. William Toohey, CSC 
7 :15 p.m. Vespers -Rev. Thomas iL.8.tz, CSC 
--·-·--·-·-------------------------­
Premier Menahem Begin.

IC~:Ioc::I>QoCOc:>=-:=-c=-cx~:ICI>QoQOc:>=-t=-c=<:x~:IC>C~Oc:>~ll "We shall escalate our opera­corby's tions to prove to the world that no peace can be worked out in the Middle East as lo9g as the Pales­



thanks 
g'IVIn g 
proudly introduces 



PartY 
BILLY 



BEER 
2 for $1°0 

brewed' for _ and with the personal approval of one of JAmerica's 
_ all tim_e great beer drinkers-Billy Carter 
Tuesday night 
leadership of Egypt," and "God bless your moves for peace." _ 
Hastily erected arches lined the motorcade route with signs like "God is with you" and "The people rally behind Sadat." In Cairo, sirens wailed and cars honked their horns as crowds packed ten-deep behind barricades chanted "Live, Live 0 Sadat!" 
Sadat's Center Party made every effort to assure a triumphant return, apparently to demonstrate to other Arabs that his people were still behind their president. 
But the crowds fell short of the three million forecast by officials, and apart from the noise the people appeared relatively subdued. Some may have been disappointed that Sadat's mission had not produced a tangible breakthrough in peace negotiations. 
Among Arab leftists Sadat's visit' to the capital of the Israeli enemy, his recognition of the Jewish state and his call for peace, unleashed a murderous wrath. climaxing in a call for Sadat's assassination by the Syrian controlled Saiqa guerilla group. 
But to millions of viewers who watched the visit on television around the world the visit was a breathtaking coup. Belgian Foreign Minister Henri Simonet called it a "brilliant victory" for Israel. 
In Washington, a State Depart­rnent spokesman called Sadat' s journey "a positive and good step:• We think this has contributed to the search for peace and we are hopeful of the results." 

In his final statement to Israel's cabinet members in Jerusalem, Sadat said: "Let us raise two slogans --no war, and security. 
"No war, let every girl, every 

SMC Student Assembly meets, discusses allocations of funds 
woman, every mother, here and in my country, know that we shall solve all our problems through negotiations around the table rather than start wars," he said. 
Israel's Prime Minister Mena­hern Begin echoed the theme at the farewell ceremony at Ben-Gurion Airport: 
"Ladies and gentlemen, citizens 

by Maria Frigyesi . 

' The St. Mary's Student Assem­bly met last night to discuss the allocation of funds for the Law Society. The organization has been previously allocated $20, but a reconsideration was requested to meet their financial needs. Mary Pat Butler, president of the Law Society, presented the case by emphasizing that the main purpose of the group is to bring speakers to the campus to provide information 
Israel for 29 years,'' said a Beirut 
radio station that speaks for 
guerrillas and their Lebanese leftist 
allies. 

''This defection from Arab ranks 
is not only treason but also makes 
Sadat as much an arch-enemy of 
the Arabs as Israel, if not worse," 
said the broadcast. 
Meanwhile, the conservative rulers of the oil-rich Persian Gulf states, marking the four-day Mos­lem holiday of sacrifice, main­tained their silence about the Sadat trip. This spotlighted a growing • gulf between them and the angry leftist regimes that denounce Sadat as a traitor. 
Dr. Georg Habash's Popular Front for the Liberation of Pales­tine, the most extreme guerilla group voted to sabotage Sadat's no-war agreement with Israeli 
tinian nation remains oppressed," said the front's official spokesman, Bassam Abu Sharif. 
unilateral termination of the state 
He  told  the  Associated  Press,  
"We  now  classify  Sadat  in  the  
same  bracket  as  Begin.  Sadat's  

of war with Israel cannot be 
tolerated.'' 
The statements were issued after Sadat's departure for horne at the end of a two-day visit to Israel, the first by an Arab head of state since the Jewish state's creation in 1948. 
In Moscow, a group of 44 Egyptian students studying in the Soviet Union announced it had sent a telegram to Sadat calling his trip "an unforgivable sin before his­tory." 
Guerrilla leader Y asir Arafat formed a special committee to meet Syrian President Hafez Assad and Libyan Premier Abdul Salam Jalloud to discuss Sadat's trip. 
"Mapping out a new confronta­tion strategy against Israel will be the main topic of discussion after Sadat's defection," said a spokes­man for Arafat's high command in Beirut. 
The move underscored efforts to form a new hardline front, headed by Syria, to continue the confronta­tion with Israel. 
Syria has not yet announced it is 
abandoning its pledge to seek a 1 peaceful settlement of the Mideast l conflict, despite its bitter denuncia­ition of Sadat's unilateral 
for the students. 'Fund raising is secondary to the orl!anization's purpose," she stated. 
According to Butler, the Society is different from other groups in that it is not connected to any specific major or department. "The society offers pre-profession­
al advice  to  students.  No other  
organization  does  this,"  Butler  
remarked.  

Past achievements of the Law Society cited by Butler included additions to the Career Develop­ment Center, the organization of law panels, the sponsoring of an American Scene speaker, and the coordination of Law Day. 
The proposal_ was supported by a letter from Dr. Deann Sokolowski, faculty advisor for the Law Society. In the letter, read by Student Body President, Mary Rukavina, to the assembly members, Sokolowski described the group as a service organization responding to the campus need for information on law as a possible career. She concluded by stating that the society cannot continue to operate without Student Government sup­port. 
Student to give piano recital 
Michael Toth, graduate music major in Performance and Literat­ure at Notre Dame will present a piano recital at 8:15 tonight in Crowley Recital Hall. Toth grad­uated with a Bachelor of Music in Applied Piano from the Eastman School of Music in 1977. 
Monday's program will include music of Bach, Beethoven. Alben­iz, and Copland. 

ATTENTION All SMC Off-campus Students: Join in the Thanksgiving Dinner 4:30-6:15 today in Dining Hall 
SMC Student Government


FREE 

of Israel and Egypt, we have reached understanding that there will be no more wars between our nations.'' 
"We shall make peace,"' he .added as Sadat's Egyptian jetliner lifted off Israeli soil. "I am sure, I am sure." 
At a joint news conference earlier yesterday, Begin pro­claimed the visit "a real success." He said the chief achievement was the start of "serious direct dialogue ...not only between Israel and Egypt but with all other states." 
In TV interviews both leaders 

voiced optimism that the Geneva 
Mideast peace conference could be 
reconvened before the end of t,.e 
year. 
In a discussion that followed, a proposal was made by an assembly member to co-sponsor speakers, whose fees constitute the bulk of the society's expenses, with Stu­dent Government. Butler rejected this on tl)e grounds that it would defeat the purpose of the society as an autonomous organization, and that the status of the society as a pre-professional organization would be in question. "We need money now to plan for second semester speakers,'' Butler said. 
Deliberations by the assembly led to a proposal to re-allocate $100 earmarked for the Law Day speak­er. 
Student Government Treasurer, Mary Beth Leisle reported that the . $339 ticket revenue collected for the appearance of Cicely Tyson would not approach the perform­er's $3525 fee, plus her expenses of $250 . As a result, a monetary loss of Student Government funds was reported. 
Plans to sell police whistles at the Student Government bazaar booth were also discussed. A nominal fee will be charged to promote sales. Rukavina stated students will be encouraged to wear them at night for security reasons. 
Discussion of the parietals pro· 

posal was postponed for a later 
meeting. 
Senior Fellow voting continues 
Votes for Senior Class Fellow will be accepted today until 5 p.m. in the Student Activities Office. Ballots may be obtained by asking the receptionist. 
THE CAUCASIAN CHALK CIRCLE 
Bredrt's Rlrable of justice and true belonging 
Decerriler 2,3,8,9,1 0 atS:OO p.m. AU seats $2.50 ($2 Std-Fac-Staff) 
,.

"I 1,.. _, '4. ·.: .~ ' -·-J " • ' Jl .,J ••• " ~ ' ., .'·" .· .. 
. l. ~ rl',· ·,_, (•t·.· ~~;t...::/": ·.•··.J'I··.......... -~ ,l, ' 
.. 

·........ , .......... ' -····· .............. • ··~-, ....-•.·• •.~j ~u.••.·.• _,_.• ·•.·•-·••• • ..-.... -. ...-... ·, ··-.. ·~ ...-:•. ·.:.·.~.... ·• ..:·#~·'···.:.•~'J.':t'·"' .·~...;~.;·-.·... ·.··,..·~·-Jo'".'·~·.-..·:·._. ··.-. .-;' ·, •..,. .-....• , • . , .. :.:•·-·· ..·:• ,_ .. ·,, , .,.., 
-----------------~---­
-------------~------------~
-·---­
-~-------~· 





P.O. BOX Q 
!EDITOR'S APOWGYtJ'be headline, "SMC chicks: NY jcharter mght" should not have jappearecl as such In yesterday's jhsae ofThe Observer. I am sorry U 
anyone was offended by the label land I would Uke to apologize. 
MartiHoaan 
Use Your Head 
Dear Editor: 
As a member of Farley's hall council, I've been asked repeatedly to advise the girls to be cautious -­call security if you see anyone suspicious in the dorms or on campus; don't walk alone at night; don"t jog around the lakes alone; ask to see someone's ID when you open the door for him; or ask who they're going to visit; use the escort service, (use your head); and now --lock your doon at 1111 times. 
Since a male entered a girl's fourth-floor room in the middle of the night last Friday, Farley wo­men are scared. It's nice to think that if we live on the fourth floor, we're safe, but the fact is, we don't know where we're safe. Like it or not, we have been forced by the incompetency of others to fear for our safety. 
Since the number of women on this campus has increased, so have the incidents increased. In most instances, however, women stud­ents do not deserve the blame. The blame lies in those who don't take these instances seriously. It lies with those who gave the peculiar glow to the golden dome instead of lighting the walks beneath it. Blame also lies in failing to install operative phones in every building on campus, and not installing security hotlines for fear someone will tear them out. Most of all, the fault is in all of us for being so complacent and allowing Notre Dame to be so victimized. 
I would hate to see Notre Dame change from a tranquil campus to a police state, but this has gone far en<'ugh. I'm furious! Maybe if we had coed dorms instead of elderly security guards, we'd be safer. 
Security should not be an area for study, it shouldn't even be given a' priority; it should be given. 
Oare l.euy' 
Keggers or Rape 
blue are waging a war against the atrocities being committed at off­campus keg parties. South Bend Police Chief Michael Borkowski is to be highly commended for his stalwart attack against those repro­bates who dare to hold these incorrigible gatherings. It is indeed consoling to know that "police activities'' are being focused on such horrendous activities as keg parties. 
This valiant attack is truly a­
. mazing considering the frequency of minor violations of the law, such as rape and theft in the Notre Dame Community. Women of the Notre Dame Community rest assured, when walking alone at night, that no one is being corrupted at an off-campus keg party, although you may well be assaulted. · Michael Goodwin Tom Lange 

Thanks to Students 
Dear EdJtor: This is an open letter to the ND-SMC community: 
This past Saturday at the Air Force game, some of you may have noticed a group of over 200 people or so singing and cheering in the stands. Our group was from Logan, and without the help of the Notre Dame-St. Mary's community, we would never have been there. We have many people to thank for it. 
First of all, thank-you to all the students who donated their tickets to us in the dining halls and at the Student Activities. Without your tickets we couldn't have gotten into the game, so thanks so much! 
We would also like to thank the ushers at the stadium, especially those that stood in our section. Your understanding and patience just was so great! The kids had a terrific time because of all your help! 
Also, thank-you to the people whose seats we were in. It was important that we stayed in a group, so no one would get lost. You were all really understanding · 
Q) 
-c: 
0 
~ 
-
Q) 
c 
-
about moving to another seat! 
Thanks! 
Finally, thanks to all the volun­
teers! We hope that you all realize 
how much the kids appreciated it! 
They were all smiles and no one 
even wanted to leave in th(~ cold 
and rain. We couldn't have gone 
without you. 
Thanks so much! 
Jeanne M. Conboy 
Art Koebel 
ND-SMC Coaocll for the Retnrdecl 
Donation tc:> 

University 
Editor's Note: The foUowlng letter, sent to The Observer by Mr. Marge1t, Is a copy of a lette1r he wrote to Fr. Hesbargh. 
Dear Fr. Hesbargh: 
Regardless of the fad that 1 am an alumnus of the University with a daughter at St. Mary's College, I was appalled and shocked by the recent rapings at these two fine institutions. All of the students deserve better protection than ap­parently is provided. 
Enclosed is my check in the amount of $100 for any fund that can col"Jrect the improper lighting situation or security measures. 
Hoping that the University ~tcts immediately to correct these insuf­ficiencies, I remain, 
Sincerely ymnrs, 
John J. Marget, CCL 
[Class of 19t9] 

NSHP 
Expr~esses 



Gratitude 
Dear EdJtor: 
As members of the Neighbor­hood Study Help Program, we would like to express our sincc:re appreciation and gratitude to all those people who were responsible for the success of tltis year's ND 
I'M soRflY...YOUN611AN.•.BUT YOU CAN'T 5/f H£f?f Tfl/5 
IS THE TfiA!NING TABLE FoR ATJ-/L[T£5. 

*The Observer 
an independent student newspdper serving notre do1me dnd st. mary·., 
The Observer is published by students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and as objectively as possible Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions and letters are the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and letters are encouraged to promote the free expression oi varying opinions on campus. 
EDITORIAL BOARD 
Marti Hogan Editor-in-Chiel Martha Fanntng Managing Editor Bob Brink Asst. Managing Ed. Kathy Mills Executive Editor Maureen Flynn Editorial Editor Barb Breitf'n'>tein Exec. News Editor Jean Powlf'v St. Mary· s Ed1tor Katie Kerwin News Editor Barb Langhenry News Editor Paul Stevemon Sports Editor Pat Coif' Special Projects Ed David 0' Kf'f'ff' Features Editor 
Tuesday, November 22, 1977 
opinion~~~~~~~~~ 

Thanksgiving 
as Usual 


jim bowler 
Over the river and through the woods, To Grandmother's house we go... 
Now let's see mused Grandma, have we prepared everything? We have the com, peas, string beans, wax beans, beets, cauliflower, candied yams, spinach, cucumbers, tomatoes, apple cider, fruit cups, shrimp cocktails, soups, apples, pears, oranges, pumpkin pie, cherry pie, sweet potatoes, mashed potatoes, baked potatoes, stuffing, goose, roast duck, and, of course, the turkey. Yes, she decided, all seemed in order. 
By this time, the family had assembled in the dining room and was waiting impatiently around the large table. As the food slowly arrived in front of the drooling onlookers, their knives and forks immediately began the onslaught. When Grandma finally entered with the last dish of the feast, Father began to say grace. With a gesture that resembled the swatting of flies, he blessed himself and mumbled the forgotten prayer that was barely heard above the bickering of the children vying for the largest leg of turkey. Father, annoyed at their quarreling stopped the prayer in mid-sentence and settled the argument by giving each a slice of turkey, keeping the prized leg for himself. 
• Without further interruption, they proceeded to devour, swallow, gulp, gormandize, chew, masticate, nibble, bite, gnaw, graze on, lap, guzzle, imbibe, crunch, munch and engulf their food. And after they had devoured, swallowed, gulped, gormandized, chewed, masticated, nibbled, bit, gnawed, grazed on, lapped, guzzled, imbibed, crunched, munched, and engulfed their food, they sat back and viewed the results of their gluttony, which had left the table looking like the victim of a brutal Indian attack. 
After Father had gained his balance, he opened a can of beer and journeyed to the living room to watch the afternoon football game. Sitting in his reclining chair, stomach sprawled well over his belly, he unleashed a loud burp that echoed through the room. And it was here, somewhere between the third and fourth quarters, that Father offered his lone psalm of gratitude that day: "Thank God for the Alka Seltzer." 
Charity Basketball Game last Sun­day evening. We would especially like to thank those ND-SMC stu­dents and tutors for attending, the ND Athletic Department and players for their generous support in arranging the game, McDon­ald's Corporation for their excellent efforts in publicizing the event and the participation of the McDonald characters as entertainment. 
We would also like to thank those South Bend businesses who sold tickets. and all the members of the 
~~ 
South Bend community who sup­ported the game with their dona­tions of time and money. Thanks to these combined efforts, the Neigh­borhood Study Help Program and the Special Olympics will be able to continue and extend their services to the community. We are very grateful for your overwhelming support, and we hope to work with you again next year. 
Maag1e Brittan 
Rick Van Bevereo 
NHP 

.J:  
Dear Editor:  u  
In  lieu  of the  recent  unsolved  
rapes on campus, it is a comfort to  
know that the South Bend men in  

..­
Letters to a Lonely God 
Thanksgiving is the Cruellest Feast 
Reverend Robert Griffin 

New England ladies, it is said, have their hats, and New England families have their homes. The hats have their histories, and look, each one of them, as though it could have made it on its own, not needing a Cabot or Lowell to wear it, showing up for meetings at the Boston Athenaeum, celebrating Emerson's birthday, checking Thoreau's essays out of the Boston Public Library. Boston hats, dowager or spinster, are local institutions: snobbish, fishy-eyed, uncompromising, needing to please nobody. You wouldn't dare to contradict a Boston hat; and if you tried to, you'd wish that, instead of being so impertinent, you'd merely been landed on by Plymouth Rock. 
New England homes, like New England hats, are passed down from generation to generation. You don't own the homes; the homes let you use them for a little while. You are born there; you grow up there; you live there, and you may die there, or you move off to jobs in Poughkeepsie. Whatever you do, the house remains, cherishing its history, storing up its memories, secreting its ghosts, enduring births, resisting change. Generations come and go; but a New England home, like the earth itself, endures forever. 
I did not do all my growing up in my grandfather's New England house on the coast of Maine, the house that had no history but my family's history; but when I grew old enough, we moved there, my grandparents having finished with their need of the place. Inherited with the place were the portraits of my great grandparents, the furniture, the dishes and silver, the family Bibles, the apple trees, and the flagpole (four or five times replaced) in the yard, that implied we belonged to a tradition of being old New England, so that only the Indians had a right to regard as parvenus. On the islands off that Maine coast were even older houses, where my great grandparents had played as children remembering their own grandparents at home on ancestral acres. The family was never more than local gentry, having its share of doctors and lawyer, mayors and preachers, as well as fishermen; but we were Yankees, by God! Growing up in New England, being Yankee was enough, even if you didn't make it as a Saltonstall. 
New England homes, like New England hats, were instituted (as the sacraments were) as external signs of an internal grace, thoroughly Protestant, grimly Yankee. Thanksgiving, for a Yankee, is like the Easter communion of Catholics: it reminds you of how faithfully you have kept the tradition. For one day of the year, at least, you hate yourself for the neglect of an ancient duty. 
Thanksgiving Day, as you grow older, becomes a window through which you view the landscape of the past. The day has its uses as a harvest festival, but birthdays seem more appropriate for celebrating one's survival and prosperity. As you grow older, Thanksgiving is memories of the past clutching at the heart. It is recaptured innocence belonging to a time before you discovered that death was more powerful than your father and grandfather, who you hoped were immortal. Thanksgiving is a child, sitting with other children at a table, and somebody says: "Nanna made the Indian pudding;" and you struggle to eat the mincemeat pie your mother made, as well as the pudding, so mother. and grandmother will know you are equally pleased with both of their bakings. Thanksgiving is grownups saying a blessing for births bringing young, new laughter to the house, and a thank you for deaths and sickness sparing the family for another year so that different generations can have the enjoyment of knowing one another. Thanksgiving is sadness never mentioned before the children, as adults grieve wordlessly for guests who can never come again to places set at the family feast. Thanksgiving is a little boy, eating too much, with nobody saying "Don't," as they might do at other times as a check to the little guy's chubbiness; in the midst of gluttony, the boy can sense a wistful note to the hilarity warning him that remembrances are being clutched at in this gathering, to be used as souvenirs on a darker day. Thanksgiving is remembering, as you know your mother is remembering on this day, and your brother and sister are remembering; and thinking that short of a miracle, the four of you will never do your remembering together, in the same place, again. 
The old New England home is gone now, belonging to strangers you suspect incapable of cheris.hing an apple tree. I have no need of a house that requires passing down to children and grandchildren. The mother and the brother and the sister live in places where the sick are cared for. Sometimes, while in Maine, I drive past the house, never daring to stop, having no rights over the home and room where my father died. My grandparents intended that I should live in the house as its owner; my grandmother spoke about my having the house the week before she died. I made other choices, and maybe that New England home felt betrayed by the choice I made. Maybe I'm afraid ofthe house; maybe that's why I never stop, fearful of the way the wind can sob against the eaves where birds pass on their nests from generation to generation. If Boston hats can be formidable, New England houses can positively carry on a grudge, cursing an offspring with restlessness until he comes home again to inherit his patrimony. 

It is almost Thanksgiving Day; and in middle age, you know you can never go home again. Thanksgiving is the cruellest feast. At Christmas, though there are memories, yet in that season, Christ is always being born; at Easter, earth and flesh itself celebrate a feast of survival. In late November, as you grow older, the ode to joy is sung with muted .notes, in a minor key. The thanks rise to God for the blessings that are,and for the blessings that have already been. I hope it is not ungrateful 'to heaven to neeil, in middle age, Hie blessin.ti's of home-and familv; not as a 
child might need them, but as -a man remembers them to be. ~ 
Whether from New England, or not, hold on to your hats. Whether Yankee, or not, be grateful for home and family. Hats cannot last until. time immemorial, though when you see them on ladies in Boston, forever is they way they look. Home and family are even more perishable, try as· hard as you can to pass them down from generation to .zeneration. 
N.D.-S.M.C. PEOPLE, 10N CAMPUS OR OFF-CAMPUS: WELCOME TO THE OPEN HOUSE AT DARBY'S 1PLACE,\ THANKSGIVING DAY.FROM TWO UNTIL AFTER MIDNIGHT. 
----------------------------------~­
T"'~sday, November 22, 1977 
the observer 
5 



Backstage Ot the MBF 
----by Frank Laurino 

[This is the second of a three part series on the 
Midwest Blues festival. Part Three will be printed 
after Thanksgiving break. 

Saturday night's show had been over for half an 
hour, and all but the few remaining concertgoers 
had filed out the door of Stepan Center. The light 
trees were being lowered, the P A cable rolled, 
and the stage cleared of the last mike stand and 
snare drum. 

All that could be seen through the hazy light was 
a sea of bottles and cans. Like an army of 
bulldozers, the Midwest Blues Festival staffers 
were sweeping up the debris. 

Over by the stage, Big Joe Duskin could be heard 
above the clink of bottles. He was laughing at a 
joke as he loaded up his old Cadillac with 
equipment. 

From backstage walked Bob Kissell, slowly, 
with an exhausted but satisfied expression. He 
looked like he'd been awake for 48 hours. Well, 
almost. Bob, the director of the 1977 Midwest 
Blues Festival, knows that putting on a two-night 
six-act show isn't the easiest thing to do. · 
To trace the 24-year-old Notre Dame grad 
student's involvement in the MBF, one has to go 
back to 1971. That was Bob's freshman year at 
ND; it was also the year of the first blues festival 
held at Stepan. At that time, Bob had only a 
limited exposure to the blues. 

''I went to some of the shows, and I really liked 
it," Bob remembered. "The music was so good! I 
was hooked." 

Skip back to 1973, when Bob found himself in 
the collegiate seminar class of grad student Perry 
Aberli, l:Jte existing director of the MBF. Bob 
expressed a desire to work at the next festival; 
Perry agreed. 

That festival in 1974 featured Fenton Robinson, 
Big Walter Horton and the Bossman, Muddy 
Waters. Bob was given charge of the artists' 
requirements backstage (e.g., food and drink). "I 
was totally amazed when Muddy walked in," 
recalled Bob. 

1975 was the same: Perry at the helm, Bob 
assisting. However, Bob now had the job of lining 
up the main attraction, Albert King. He was also 
in charge of all backstage operations, including the 
artist's payments--"the deals" which were usually 
in $20 bills and, occasionally, a bottle or two of fine 
liquor. 

Although Perry found his five-year role as 
director satisfying, he had also found it increasing­
ly difficult to enjoy the show. ''There was too 
much running around," explained Bob. "Itgets to 
be a lot--the hassles, the worries." · 
tThe best way to run the show is to immerse yourself in the music,' 
...,....,................. .........,..................~..
~~~~~~·~ 

By this time, Bob was on his way to being a 
double-domer and was very heavily into the blues. 
Perry decided it was time for a change, so he asked 
Bob, "Wanna take over the show?" The answer, 
of course, was yes. 

Bob admits he was "extremely naive" as far as 
directing a festival was concerned. "I leaned 
heavily on Perry for help with bookings, finances, 
and ads. He told me: 'The best way to run the 
show is to immerse yourself in the music.'' 
The new MBF director took the advice. When at 
his home in Chicago, Bob would compulsively buy 
blues records and books about blues artists. Night 
after night, he would stay awake in bars, listening 
to little :>r unknown performers. 

"I soon realized that my main problem was how 
to provide a well-balanced program," said Bob. "I 
also wanted to make use of the Bicentennial 
theme. I think the blues is one of the fundamental 
forms of American music.' I wanted to show how 
the blues had changed, how it had formed its 
different styles." 

Bob classifies the blues into three basic styles. 
The oldest and perhaps the purest style is the 
acoustic/country blues, performed by such artists 
as Sonny Terry and Brownie McGhee. Out of this 
style came a transitional period (from the late '40s 
to the late '60s) called jump/swing blues. Muddy 
Waters is a representative artist of this period. 
The most recent trend in blues--one brought about 
by the electronic rock medium--is the city/electric 
style, which includes artists like Son Seals and · Albert King. Albert King's style of music tends to be very popular with young blues enthusiasts, so Bob ·decided he wanted the big guitarist to headline the 
1976 Saturday session. "Albert told me after the 
'75 festival, 'I haven't had this much fun in a long 
time. Any time your want me to come back here, 
I'll come.' So I got him." 

Festival time soon rolled around, Bob was 
pleased with the lineup--especially with Albert. 
He remembered looking on as the legendary 
bluesman wailed on guitar when out of the crowd 
came a beer can. It hit Albert above the rim of his 
glasses; he left the stage. 

"I was completely crushed," said Bob. "Albert 
was exceedinJidv angered--not J!t me, the staff, or 
the crowd-but at that individual who had ruined 
three months of hard work.'' 
"It was hard for me to handle the incident," 
continued Bob. "But it made me more derermined 
to put on the next show ... a good blues show with a 
relaxed atmosphere, where everything could go 
smoothly.'' 
....................~.... .....
-~~ 

tl decided... I·wanted Muddy Waters. I wouldn't haue to worry about a strong posing show with the Bossman.' 
Thus Bob Kissell's MBF '77. He started 
working in May. Student union Director Thomas 
Gryp allowed Bob to sign contract before the S.U. 
budget meetings, and the Cultural Arts Commis­
sion granted a $3500 budget. Bob estimated the 
cost of the festival to be $10,000, which meant he 
needed $6500 in ticket sales to break even. 
Therefore, a big headliner was the most important 
concern. 
"I decided right away that I wanted Mudd¥ 
Waters," said Bob. "I wouldn't have to worry 
about a strong closing show with the Bossman." 
Muddy was signed along with Mighty Joe Young 
in a package deal; both would perform Saturday 
night. "I would never have been able to get 
Muddy if I had to wait until September to sign 
acts," Bob explained. "These people ·are 
professionals; you have to book them like people 
who play the A.C.C. Tom Gryp knew this, and he 
allowed me to go ahead with the contracts." 
Bob's next problem was how to round off the 
shows with quality acts and still remain within his 
budget. Son Seals was chosen to headline Friday's 
performance. 
"I had seen Son many times,"said Bob. "Every 
time he got better and better. Son also had a big 
following in South Bend, so he would be a big 
draw.'' 
Bob then met with Perry to toss around some 
other names. Surprisingly, the past festivals 
featured artists that Perry had wanted to see. As 
Bob explained, "Perry once wanted to see Albert 
King. So we got him to come to the festival.'' 
In the same manner, Bob and Perry decided on 
Big Joe Duskin for the opening slot on Saturday. 
The two had never heard of the Cincinnati piano 
player because he had never cut a record. But Son 
Seals' manager, Bruce Iglauer (called "Alligator 
Bruce" because of his company, Alligator Re­
cords), ·sent Perry a demo tape of Big Joe. Bob 
immediately fell in love with the music. "I knew I ·wanted him as soon as I heard the first song." 
Sonny Terry and Brownie McGhee were to be in 
Chicago at the time of the festival, so they were 
quickly signed for friday night. Everything was 
now set, except for the festival's opening act. 
Edith Wilson and Little Brother Montgomery 
had cut a record in late 1976. Perry bought it. Bob 
listened. Both liked. Then, they had a visitor. 
"A girl from a music course at Notre Dame had 
gone to Chicago to interview Edith for a term 
paper," said Bob. "She was very impressed with 
Edith's personality--as much as we were with her 
music. So we signed her." 
The concert lineup was set by July 15--a new 
MBF record. "I rewarded myself with a two-week 
vacation in Oregon," said Bob. "But the work 
wasn't over." 
Bob decided a new approach was needed for . festival advertising. He doubled his radio spots on WRBR, W AOR, and WSND-FM. He and Perry ·worked extensively through the River City Review, selling the show in South Bend through articles 
and ads. 
Bob then went one better. He took out an ad in 
Uving Blues, a national publication for blues 
enthusiasts. . 
"There are no blues festivals which bring in acts from all over the country that has existed for as long as ours," explained Bob. "I thought it was time to promote the festival on a national basis. I had very strong sets, and the prices, as usual, were extremely low. People who get into blues would be willing to travel to South Bend for the festival.'' 
The ad paid off. Bob received calls from Oeveland, Pittsburgh, Newcastle, Pa., Grand Rapids, Minn., New York City, and Toronto, Canada. All expressed a desire to attend the festival. 
The other necessary preparations seemed incidental. Stepan Center was reserved for a non-home-football weekend in November. Lights, sound equipment, and technical personnel were contracted through Mike Whelan, who had worked the lights at the past blues festivals. 
Bob arrived at Stepan seven hours before the show started to allow the light and sound crews time to set up their equipment. Tom Modic, MBF Stage Manager, and the entire staff were there to set up chairs and assist the technical personnel. 
Bob was a bundle of nerves. ~~Most of the 
[continued from page 71 
~~ -­
Tuesday, November 22, 1977

6 the observer 
FDA approves pneumo~ia vaccine 

WASHINGTO~ !APJ ~ The Food will be available Feb. 1. facility w~ere pneumonia could and Drug Admtntstration. (FDA) spr~ad easily, ~nd ~nyone conva­ye.ster.day approved a vacctne that The FDA authorized the manu-lescmg .from senous illne.s~. . sctentists say can prevent m~st facturer, Merck, Sharp & Dohme, Desptt~ ~he. use of pemc~h? and cases of pneumococcal pneumoma, to recommend the vaccine for all other antlbtotlcs, pneumoma ts the which kills thousands of Americans persons SO or older; anyone with a nation's fifth kading cause of a year. chronic illness; anyone living in a ~eath, killing at least 25:~ Amer-
The vaccine, called Pneumovax. nursing home or other chronic care tcans annually. Some sctentists say 
the death toll may run as high as 
66,000. 
The F_DA said p~eumococ~al 

pneumo~111a, a bactenal infectton 
Hasler to lecture on role 
of smell in migration 
tha~ strike.s the lungs, causeS"~ a 
Dr. Arthur Davis Hasler, who 
discovered the role of smell in the 
upstream migrations of salmon, 
will deliver a public lecture at Notre 
Dame today at 4:30 p.m. in the 
Galvin Life Science Center auditor­
ium. 
Hasler's lecture, "Olfactory lm­
printing in Homing Salmon: Natural 
and Simulated,'' will be preceded 
by an open house of Notre Dame's 
aquatic research facilities in Galvin 
from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Faculty 
members will be on hand to 
describe the aquatic program and 
research laboratories. 
Director of the Laboratory of 
Limnology at the University of 
~~con~n ~nee 1963, Ha~er r~ 
ceived the most prestigious award 
of the American Fisheries Society 
irl 1977. the Award of Excellence 
for outstanding achievement in 
fisheries science and management. 
His current research involves indu­
cing salmon ids into new streams by 
imprinting them on new odors 
which are added to the streams. 
Hasler's international reputation 
was demonstrated in 1976 when he 
was elected foreign member of the 
A special thanks 
The members of the Big Brother ­Big Sister organization and the council for the retarded would like to thank those students who donat­ed their Air Force football tickets last week. Over 200 children were able to attend Saturday's game due to their generosity. 

Hesburgh speaks to students 
[Continued from page II "I dido 't think much of their approach," he said. "it was the Sears-Roebuck huckster style. They thought they could run a­-ound the world passing out con­doms and IUD's and that people would use them. ~ell, if they're not motivated to use them, they won't" he said. Hesburgh said the issue of population control called for a "GiobalSolution.'' He pointed out that the richer nations have the prim1ry responsibility, since they account for only 20 percent of the world's population, but use 80 percent of its resources. Hesburgh reminded the class that "we are all members of the '<>paceship earth,' and the uneven distribution of resources is simply not just. You'll never have peace in the world unless you do something about it." 

Economics lecture today 

Celso Furtado, professor of econ­omics at the University of Paris will deliver a lecture entitled "Center­Periphery Relations in an Age of Global Reconstruction" today at 4 
p.m. in the library lounge. Furtado is the former director of the Brazilian Development Bank. The lecture is sponsored by the depart­ment of economics, 

Pittsburgh bus to definitely run 
The Pittsburgh Club Bus will still run if Greyhound goes on strike, but the arrival and departure points will be changed to the Pittsburgh Trailways terminal. There will be no change in the time schdule and pick-up points at Notre Dame l!nd St. Mary's. 
·~·. • . ; ...... ........ 
Royal Netherlands Academy of maJor portion of these deaths. 1 he Sciences. He is a member of the estimates of the total number of National Academy of Sciences and cases of pneumococcal pneumonia a fellow of the American Academy annually among Americans range of Arts and Sciences, the American from 200,000 to one million. Institute of Fisheries Research There are 83 known strains of the Biology. pneumococcus organism, but the 
The lecture is sponsored by the 14 that Pneumovax protects against Program of Environmental Studies are responsible for 80 percent of all in Aquatic Biology, which produces pneumococcal pneumonia. well-trained aquatic technicians at The vaccine is not effective the undergraduate level, and ad­against viral pneumonia, wh·ich vanced degree recipients prepared drugs cannot prevent or cure. But for administrative positions in such scientists say most viral pneumonia agencies as the Department of cases do not become as severe as Natural Resources, the Environ-pneumo,:occal pneumonia. mental Protection Agency, health The FDA said the vaccine may be departments and fish hatcheries. particularly usefu'l for the nation's 50,000 sickle cell anemia patients, who run a high risk of severe pneumonia infections. The blood cell disease strikes two in every 500 black infants, and an estimated two percent of these victims die from pneumonia before age ten. 
But so far researchers have not found a vacdine useful for children under two. The infants fail to 
develop the antibodies that older children and adults develop when vaccinated to prevent pneumococ­cal infection. 
Scientists also say the vaccine will aid persons with damaged. or missing spleens, a bacterta­fighting organ. . 
The FDA also noted that stud~es are under way to determme whether the vaccine can prevent middle ear infections in infants, which can be caused by the 
pneumococcus. 

The pneumococcus is a bacteria normally found in the nose and throat of healthy persons. It can invade the lungs and cause pneu­monia • " the body's defense mechanisms falter. 
r----------------------------------------~ 
i .. 

~ Are you ready for the .~ ~ ~ ~ CHRISTMAS BAZAAR?~ 
~ at SMC Dec 5, 6, & 7 ~ i For information call-~ ~ Christy -4407 (SMC) ~ 
i............... ~.............,...~~....,....~4~.......~.............~.._... ............................~................... 
-------~-----------·-------------------~ 
'· 
. Ifyou can't fly Continental, I 
you may have to stay after schOol. 



Let us take you a"V{ay with our economical discount fares. 
It doesn't take a course in economics to know that Continental is the way to go for the holidays. Because we're pioneers in the area of discount fares. 
Like our Night Coach prices~ Fly at night and save a full 20% off the cost of a regular Day Coach ticket. . 
Or, if you're off to Los Angeles, you 11 save a bundle with our Super Coach fare-just $99 one way-and no restrictions! 
And only Continental has Economy 
o; · t t · 

Fares everyw here we fl y-save 1O;o JUS 'Y skipping a meal. . No matter where you fly in Continental's 
USA -north, south, east or west-we've got a great schedule and a discount fare to fit you~ budget.. And y~:m'll still get the kind of serv1ce Contmentaiis famous for. ' 
. For. more in~·ormation about our money­savmg discount tare~, call your campus rep, travel a.gent: or.Contmental at 686-6500, else­where m lllm01s !oil Free ~t (80()) 97.2-7896. And remember, If you cant fly Contmental, try to have a nice trip anyway. . 
*NightCoachFaresgoodonlyonflightsdesJ&'llated hyContmental leavmg between 9:00PM and 7:00AM. 
We really move our tail for you. 
CONTINENu~L AIRLINES 
The Proud Bird with the Golden Jail. 
,·,-,,!'.• ·.' ..>... ··.:>';;.. ·,,·;.·..:; ' '' . ..........., :"') "';·.J'J' '>'"' ·. ·: •.·..'.~' ..t.·,. ·.·-.•-~·~~.. 
',·~ -'.~·.'<\-:J.~;•., . .;.:::.·.~4~·<·~· .. .·..i.i-~+o~;;...;..:<..:..,:.•.:.:..: ·-·~,~•.;..~ ..:;,:...:.::,.: .: ..:::.>1-::,:.,_;;.: ..:::P'!:..C:~·;;~:::·:::.;::.~: -~f~.J1:;:;;::,;:;;,·.;.vJ;:>~·;:)~:=;-:~-:;c;:-.•:-;;·+;•:.·;...:~·;·~·:.•:;;x:·::·:":,.~::;;.~ ;~;;:: .j;;~ ·.,...:.:;-,.;~.;...:J: ·.;.(<···-~·.:.: <•. ·::..: ·.: ·z·~·->:>: <·J..:-~;..:: ·~·. ;....f<.u-:: ·~ :,..~ 
,. 

need resumes in a hurry? 

©ml 

•nsty-pr1nls• 
the wiz of the printing biz! 
rag bond 2 5 -8 1/2 X 1 1 $2.55 203 N. Mam So.~nd 289-697 





The Commons 
826 Eddy 233-0875 Pitcher of Beer·-1/2 price with purchase of Large Piz~a 

after5 pm 

Monday-Saturday ­1 0:30am-1 :OOam Cany out-Pizza & Uquor (fonner1y Cliff's} 
.. r.--,-,.---.-....--.--.,..--.........--:--,---,­
--~­
•· 

Tuesd3y, November 22, 1977 
the observer 7. 





Backstage at the MBF 
[continued &om page 4] afternoon, I was worrying that the show wouldn't go smoothly. It was snowing, and I worried about the artists getting to Stepan on time. I also wondered if the weather would seriously cut my gate sales." Immediately, Bob had a technical problem. The main spotlight, rented from an Indianapolis company, wouldn't work. Efforts to rent another from a South Bend company were fruitless. "I was not very pleased at all," said Bob. "But it was almpstishowtime,and there was nothing we could do.'.' All evening, Bob looked like a machine stuck in high gear. One minute he was backstage checking on ,the artists, only to have to rush onstage and introduce the next act. He constantly talked with the s<)undand lightcrews to make sure everything was in proper order. He assisted his own crew with ltheir jobs. Occasionally he'd crawl over cable's and partitions in front of the stage so he could snap a picture or two. There was even a time when he sat still for a few minutes and listened to the music. The gremlins were out that night, as always. Son Seals' vocal mike mysteriously died during one song. Once, a clumsy photographer tripped over the PA lines, temporarily cutting sound to some of· the high-frequency horns. Fortunately, there were no incidents like the Albert King escapade. "If something like that had happened again, the future of the blues festival would have been in doubt," said Bob. However, something terrible nearly happened. Someone in the front stage area rested against a guideline which supported a light tree. One of the booms fell about eight feet. "Those trees are very heavy and carry a lot of power," Bob explained. "Besides the obvious damage to the equipment, the safety of the artists and fans was threatened. We were vety lucky." Friday night's show ended without further problems. "I knew that if I could 2et throu2h the 
first show, th~ rest would be easy,'' said Bob. 
_Saturday mg~t, except for a few microphone 
failu~es, was a btt s~oother. Whalen had rigged a 
~potltght platform wtth so!De stage lights, provid­
tn~ more-than-adequate vtsual effects. 
Bob got a scare when Mighty Joe Young showed up late. "He's usually very reliable, so I was worried," said Bob. "But he just got caughUn the snow.''
.......................................~ ...............~...-.~........... 
'If I can get people 
to go to the festiual, 
I can hook'em on the blues.' 
The 1977 Midwest Blues Festival ·turned out to be a success, expecially at the gate. According to Bob, the shows drew $7500 to $8000--well over the estimated returns. Bob plans to use the extra money for a one-act mini-concert in Washington Hall this spring. 
The festival was a musical successs as well. "I felt I educated some people,"· Bob said. "If I can get people to go to the festival, I can hook 'em on the blues. You don't have to have alot of knowledge about the blues to enjoy it. All you have to do is let yourself be taken in by the music." 
Bob is presently working towards a graduate degree in psychology, S\)ecializing in mental retardation. He's also trymg to arrange for his studies to continue in the South Bend area. Why? He already has dreams of the 1978 Midwest Blues Festival--with an eye on B.B. King as headliner. 
"If I'm here next year, I'll definitely do the show," Bob said confidently. "Anf if there's a chance of getting B.B. King, I'm going for it. I love this music a whole lot." 

NOTICES 

MORRISSEY LOAN FUND Student loans. $20-150. 1 day wait. 1 percent interest. Due in 30 days. LaFor­tune Basement. M-F 11:15-12:15 
Typing. Reasonable rates. Call 8051. 
Anyone wishing to register to vote in Indiana's May election should ca!l Mo at 
4-4001. 
Interested in updating your understand· ing of the Christian faith and Catholic tradition? Considering the possibility of becoming a Catholic? For more informa­tion, drop by the Campt.R; Ministry offic~s in the Memorial library or in Badin Hal', or CCIII 6536 or 3820. 
THE OBSERVER OFFICES WILL fiE CLOSED AT 4:30 ON FRIDAYS THROUGHOUT THE WINTER MONTHS. 
Everyone can now have their o,vn souvenir of Notre Dame's championshio football season. Call 8982 now to get outstanding full color action shots of 011r victory over Southern Cal. Some never before seen in Sports Illustrated. 
-----------------~ 
FOR RENT 

Country room for rent. Reasonable. 
spacious, 10 min. drive from campus. 
Cali 277-3604, afternoons. 
LOST & FOUND 

Lost: Texas Instrument TI-50A calculator in Room 118 Nieuwiand Wed. 11-16-77 Please return Tom, 6713. 
Found: Pair of bi-foc glasses in Wash. 
Hail. Call Dennis 7909. , 
Help! I lost my wallet Fri., Nov. 11· between Washington Hall & BP. If found you may keep football ticket & money (what little there was!) but please return wallet! Call Katie, 1332. --------------~--­Lost: White, silky shawl at SMC Soph­omore Formal. Call 4942. 
lost: Men's pocketwatch in library audit· qrium or Cl parking lot or in between. $20 reward. Call Rick 272-5408 
Found: Gold ring in front of south cafe. ¢all 2722 to identify. 

ost: Dark green down ski pcrrka taken at apan Center last Saturday .uring Blues astival. If seen or feelincl guilty Cali 
ohn 6764. Please. it's colti outside! 

CLASSIFIED ADS 
Funny sophomore comedians or imitators wanted for Sophomore N'ight al'the Naxx. 
Call Ken 3507  ·  
GO,  •  
Looks like you'll. spend  this  Thursda~·  

night .with another turkey. Happy 2fst and Thanksgiving! PAS7 
Don, Why don't you give Chris some of your oranges, I heard they have as much vitamin Cas tomatoes. Debbie 
Dear Goodbody, So you're finally 21. Now you can hit the jackpot. Smoke 'em at Timme's, old man. Love, the Mad Russian 
Brent, Don't forget to remind your Mom to take the turkey out (in fact, better make it 2)! 
Little One 
Those gorgeous girls in green are from Lewis Hall. Don't they look great in their Lewis duck shirts? 
Jeni, Have ahappy Thanksgiving in Erie. (Indulge that food fetish -I will!) S 
------~----------­
Permutation, Be sure that you see the personal for the Singularity Function. L-1 
Doe, Say hi to the "rents", etc. for me. Sorry I'll miss that Thanksgiving Indy pork-fest! Sues 
Saint Mary's students: Seats are stili available on the New York area charter flight; Dec. 22nd and Jan 16th. Call Mary Laverty: 4319. . , 
SENIORS RESUME WRITING AND TY­PING. CALL MARGIE OR MARGO 272-5217. 
Baseball, hoi dogs. apple pie and Pet.: Arnd't. 
Color USC pictures available only at 318 Zahm. Call 8982, that's 8982. Remember the number. 8982. out of town. cali collect. 
Bill Clegg & Bo Karl. Sorry it's in Tuesday's paper. but there ts none tl1is Thursday. 
Prot. Thompson is now taking nomina· lions for the Bli~J_d Squirrel Award. 
SMC London , Rome summer programs. College credit available. For information call Prof. A.R. Black 4-4938 or 272-3726. 
CHEECH & CHONG will have you ROLLING Saturday Dec .. 3rd at Stepan Center. Tickets $3.75 at ticket attic. 
Observer staff & friends, thank God for holidays! Right? "Have a Happy" 
Love, 
Mom 
No-so-surprise 21st birthday party for Bretchen Anne (with An-E) Obringer, bionic mudhead, at her place. tonight. Let's do it STS (Was that okay Gretchen?) 
On Thursday act like aturkey and gotible, Torri, K., In reterence to the preceedin ad, remember-it's only Tuesday night. . 
Hey Blue Eyes! This Thanksgiving I' thankful for every1hing we have together Espec1ally, love you always .sweetheart Your onliest Princess 
Dear Marlly, Frank, Uttla Rufus, Brother TJ: Have a happy Thanksgiving Wlsh·wa could spend It together! Love Marti 
---~-------------~ 
Hi Mom and Dad and Teresa: Happ~ Thanksgiving! Love, Barbara 
1 
-----------------~ 
To Pat, Codes, Mom, Patrucka Rodinskq Patrick and Pate too. Happy Birthday to all of you! She's the one of the six pac~ who afways saves her snacks, Beth says she's a twick, I say she's a stick. Celebrate your 19th with turkey and a fifth. from the Six Pack, all your kids, and the 146-1 pius 2-1 plus 1 Club 
Big Bro, This little sister appreciates all you've done for her (remember the 1i cases) & I hope we can always be the goc d friends we are now. 1'11 forgive you f01 ali the times you skipped out on jogging i· you'll only do me a favor!! Thanks !01 always listening to me, even though I'm f. bit cral'/. Have a HAPPY BIRTHDAY. Love, A Lightweight . 
Happy thanksgiving, mom, dad, uncle henry,1aunt jean, nance, buzz, matt., and :ourtney! Oh, and mark! Did I miss myone1 Much love, tracy 
Happy thanksgiving to the McCou:ts: Peg and matt, and also. Colleen. Rtck. and Megan O'Hara! tracy 
to all the afore mentioned but mostly to those who I didn't mention: (KM. CD. JB. AC, MS & 'MO) Tho' I've ne'er found em'rlds, leprechauns, or gold. _(just hot water bottles. rain. and Guiness) I see myself, so wonderousty. being tala. that Ive felt ·(and found) something much more precious. 'and ye' know how I'd express myself were I there. 'and since other pens write more weller than mine-1 just send my love-my hope· that's all, love...and hope. "For me there is only the travelling or. paths that have heart. on any path tha· may have heart. There I travel. and thf only worih·while challenge is to travers! its full length. ADd there I travel looking looking breathlessly." 
Jerry Hoffman, 
CIJme visit so we can set this weekend\ 
racquetball schedule. 
Your pupl: 
Peter, Is it really true? Engaged before you·ve even hit your prime? Must have beer, some death march. Congratulations Boss 
Shat do you do when your little baker's chocolate square gorws up? Wish her a happy 21st! Love, J~ 


I 
Lost: One pair glasses on SMC campus. Rounded frames. Please call Mary 5793. 
Lost: Pr. wire-rim glasses in vicinity of Dillon Fri. night. If found, please call 288-2456. 
Lost: One blue ski jacket at 101 Party. Please call Charles Wo~ 233-6773. 
KIDNAPPED! Description: 25 year old green bicycle. If 
whereabouts  are  known,  call  Ombuds­ 
man.  
WANTED  

Help make a South Bend Thanksgiving bearable. Need 2 Miss. B-ball tix. Call Matt 287-3977. 
TYPIST WANTED: Full time, to typeset display advertising, Monday and Wed­nesday thru Saturday afternoons and-or evenings. Hourly pay. Experience help­ful, but not necessary. Apply in person at: The Penny Saver, 2102 S. Michigan St., South Bend, 288-1411. 
Two need ride to Cincinnati Nov. 23. Call Steve 1720. 
Need ride to Long Island, NY for Thanksgiving break. Can leave anytime. Cali Ray at 1436. 
Need riders, heading south to Corpus Christi, Texas on November 21 via illinois, Missouri. and Oklahoma. Call Jay at 1419. 
Need: One-way ride to Toronto area for break. Gladly share expenses. Call 6962. 
Need ride to Pittsburgh for Thanksgiving. Cali Chris 4-4515. 
Ride to Boston for Thanksgiving break. will share driving and expenses. Call Tony at 1436. 
Need ride to Milwaukee Tuesday night Nov. 22. Cali Barb 4-5245. 
Need ride to Columbus for Thanksgiving. Can leave Tuesday afternoon (22nd) or anytime after. Cali Tim at 6867. 
Needed: Two bleacher basketball tix. Will pay reasonable price. Cali Tim at 3537. 
Desperately need B-baii tix vs. Mar­quette U. Feb. 26. Will buy or trade. Please call 3256. 
Need 2 student basketball tickets (to­gether) Will pay good money. Gall 277-3604 ask for Dave. 
I student season basketball ticket. Call Dan 288-8723. 

TENNIS PROS AND ASSISTANT PROS­Seasonal and year-round clubs; good playing and teaching background. Call 
(301) 654-3770 or send 2 complete resumes and 2pictures to: Col. R. Reade. WTS, 8401 Connecticut Avenue, Suite 1011, Chevy Chase, MD 20015. 
Male grad stud. wants to share apt. with same (Spr. sem.) Write Mark Thompson, 105 Dorchester Rd., Louisville, .Kentucky 40223. 
SOUTHERN TURKEY: Looking for riders on Thanksgiving Eve traverling to Atlant­a via Louisville, Nashville, Chattanooga. Gall Karen or Bill 616-429-3507. 
FOR SALE 

WHY PAY MORE??? Flanner records has all $6.98 list lp's for only $4.50. All $7.98 list ip's only $5.29. Over 400 albums in stock. Phone orders accepted. FLANNER RECORDS, 322 Flanner, phone 2741. Hours M-Th 4-5, 6:30-8:00. Sun 2-3:30. 
Stereo speakers -JBL-L16 speakers. Hardly used. 277-4056. (after 6:00) 
Camaro 1974. Air conditioning, 24,000 miles. Red. Showroom condition. 277­4056. 
Two Ovation Guitars [one] classic Ovation with hard shell Ovation case. Asking $225.110. [One] Balladeer, Ovation with case, Barcus Berry pick-up--;md leather strap. Asking $165.110 Must sell both call Gene at 1694. 
Remember the picture of Ted Burgmeier in Sports Illustrated intercepting an errantly thrown Southern Cal pass? It was agreat shot, but I've got a better one as well as anumber of other full color action packed shots of the USC game. Calh8982 for details. 
PERSONALS 

Dianne eats like a bird -a humming­bird that is. 200 times her own wetght each day. 
Jeanne, Doris. "T", Lynn. Jerri. Claud­ia. Denisa and Mike-Thanks so much for making my 21st birthday one that I'll never forget. It was very special in so many ways. Love. Mo 
P.S. Lynn -You're next' 
Need a ride to Prestonburg, Kentucliy, [near W. Virginia]? Call Auto Driveaway 
674-9786. 
Mikey, Happy Birthday on Thursday. Don't eat too much turkey. DB 
A 

--,----.._,__,__.,._....__
, 
Tuesday, November 22, 1977

the observer 

Irish grapplers place fifth in latest tourney 
by Brlaa Begluae  matches in the 182 pound weight  and clearly manhandled his oppon­ title. McKillen  won  his first bout  The Irish wrestlers were on the  
Sports Writer Rob Dreger captured the lone first .place crown for the Notre Dame wrestling team at the Biggy Munn Invitational Tournament this past weekend as the Irish came away from the eight team meet with a fifth place finish. The Blue and Gold grapplers totaled 24 points while host team Michigan State captured top honors with 54. Central Michigan was second with 45.5 points, followed by Indiana  class enroute to taking the crown. The native of Skokie, Dl., won his semifinal match by default and then went on to take the final by the referee's decision. Both grapplers had finished tied 4-4 after regula­tion time ended and they remained deadlocked after overtime. Dre­ger's opponent, however, had re­ceived a warning for stalling earlier in the match and the Notre Dame senior wound up the victor. Al­though the score was close, it was  ent," commented Irish Coach Ray Sepeta, who was voted National Catholic Coach of the Year last season for the second time in a row. "He was all over the other wrest­ler, who had to stall to try and stage Dreger off. 'That warning for stal­ling proved to be the difference.'' Three other wrestlers pla,:ed for Notre Dame in the two-day tourna­ment. Senior Pat Landfried took home second honors while Pat McKillen and Mike Padden each  before losing the semifina18-3. The road early this morning departing senior co-captain captured the con-from Du Lac at 6 A.M. for the solation match for third place 7-6. Indiana State Invitational, which Padden blanked his opponent 7-0 in begins today. The two-day meet the bout for third after having lost will serve the same purpose as the in the semis. Biggy Munn Invitational, as it will "Overall I though the team did be.,another opportunity for the ND fairly well. The purpose of the grapplers to gain experience and tounament was for conditioning conditioning. and experience and that is what we After Thanksgiving break the got out of it," noted Coach Sepeta. squad will begin heavy preparation "Everything else we got was for the Rochester Institute lnvita­extra." tiona! Dec. 2-3. The Irish matmen's  
State's 36.75 and then Toledo  at  not  a  clear  indication  of  who  finished third.  Landfried  won  his  "All of the teams entered were -first meet at the Dome will be Dec.  
29.5. Dreger  won  all  three  of  his  dominated the match. "Rob wrestled very aggressively  first two matches before bowing. out in the final for the 150 pound  good wrestling schools so we made a very respectable showing."  10 when they host Evansville, St. Joseph's and Valparaiso. 1  


Bryant looks toward record wiJns 
BIRMINGHAM, Ala. [AP]-Coach compiled. Bryant now has 271 
Bear Bryant said Monday for the victories, 44 away from his goal. first time that he wants to win more "It may take five years but I football games than any other · think we can do it in four," the coach in history. 64-year-old coach told the Monday 
He said he plans to remain at the Morning Quarterack Club. Alabama helm until his career total "A lot of things have come my reaches at least 315, one more than way in the last 40 years," he said, 
the legendary Amoz Alonzo "and I've received a lot of honors 
Duck Williams was one of the Irish that caused Soviets to see "Red". 

Monte Towlel:===================================:=;=;===============================================================================================:=====·===:==================:;=;=:=·=;=====;=;=================================· 
Back In The U.S.S.R. 
T

===========================================================:-:=======·=====:=============:=======:=:======================================~===================:=======================:===:=:===========:=;=·=;::::===;=;=;=========================:=:=:====== s ags:
A capacity crowd turned out at the ACC last Friday night to see what the 
Notre Dame basketball team was really made of. It turned out to be more 
than just another preseason or exhibition match. The 101-80 triumph over 
the Russian national team was a showcase of a college basketball tewam 
that actually wore down their somewhat bigger and stronger Russian 
opposition. The many fans leaving the arean had to be impressed with the . 
Irish's great depth, speed and ball control which saw Notre Dame turn the 
ball over but 11 times. Besides, it was a feeling of satisfaction that 
transcended the crowd as they saw the almighty Russian national team go 
down to defeat at the hands of an American collegiate pwer that is ranked 
fourth by the AP in its preseason poll. 
It was a late summer day in 1972 when I sat back in front of my home 
television to watch my daily dose of Summer Olympic action with the 
games being held in Munich. I knew that ABC was going to be showing 
most of the basketball championship between the United States and the 
USSR for the gold medal. and they did, final score USSR 51, United 
States SO. Sure the United States was playing without its best players (Bill 
Walton and David Thompson), but to lost by one point when the opposing 
team gets to score the winning bucket with 3 seconds to play was a little 
too much to take. But one thing could not be denied. The Russian 
basketball team had actually beaten the United States national team for 
the gold medal, something that no nation had ever done in Olympic 
basketball history. International basketball competition·was never to be 
the same: that is, dominated by the U.S.A. 
The United States did come back to regain the medal in Montreal but 
sweet revenge was no to be their's as the Russian team had already been 
knocked out in the semifinals by Yugoslavia. It would have been a close 

game as the Russians have now built up their basketball program to a 
level that is rapidly drawing alongside that of the United States. 

Following Friday night's game, Russian Coach Aleksandr Gomelsky spoke of his team as a tired unit that was still having trouble getting acclimated to American collegiate basketball rules during its tour of the United States. He did admit that the Russian team is a·young team, but. one that will be prepared by the time the 1980 Olympic Games in Moscow. The Soviet Union does have a great advantage though. Their national team is supported by th~ government and the players have no need to be . self-supportive. Furthermore, the Russian national team is comprised of the best basketball talent in the country and they have· three years to play 
' 
that a lot of other people deserved. 
"I'm not an 'I' guy but I decided it would be best to malk::e this decision at this time because people keep asking me." 
Bryant told the club that pro­spe(:tive signees are asking him if he will be around to coach them if they decide to play for Alabama. 
Bryant said he had talked with the university president, Dr. David Matthews, and to Mrs. Bryant and added, "The good Lord willintg, I'm going to try it four more years." 
Fans have speculated for several years whether Bryant would go for Stagg's mark but he had declined to say anything about it. 
Including Alabama's 9-1 mark this season, Bryant has averaged more than 8.2 victories a season in his 33 years as a coach. Over the past seven seasons his team:> have averaged almost 10.5 wins a yea~. 
Stagg compiled his 314 over 57 years, giving hims an average of 
5.5 victories a season. 
Next in line is Glenn "Pop" Warner, whose 313 in 44 years averages 7.1. · 
The only active coach anywhere close to Bryant is Grambling's Eddie Robinson who has 262 victories. Bryant's Sugar lBowl opponent Jan. 2, Wood_v Hayes of Ohio State has 238 victories through this season, his 31st. 
After Hayes come Jess Neely 207, Warren Wodson 203, Eddie Anderson 201, Dana X. Bible 198, Dan McGugin 197 and Fielding H. Yost 196. 
Bryant has compiled 180 of his victories ih his 20 seasons at Alabama and got the othet"s at Maryland, Kentucky and Texas A&M. 

together as a team against some of the best competition in the world to get ready. You can bet that the USSR will be back in the Olympic finals in 1980. Gomelsky added that he has the material with which to mold a team of gold medal caliber. 
But getting back to the NotreDame basketball team, Gomelsky had ample praise for he Fighting Irish. Not only did he term Notre Dame a much more powerful team than Indiana, Gomelsky also rated the Irish right with Kentucky as being two of the top teams in the country and he refused to pick a winner of the New Year's Eve game between the two powers. Of course, the Russian co1ch hasn't yet seen North Carolina, UCLA, San Francisco or Cindnnati but we all know how strong the Kentucky Wildcats are going to be :his year. 
As for the Notre Dame depth, it was most evident Friday night as 11 Irish players played more than ten minutes apiece. And as Gomelsky emphasized during the post game press conference, Notre Da••te doesn't have any single superstar but is a classy team that works very well together as a unit. All five starters for Notre Dame hit double figures in scoring with Dave Batton pacing the attack with 18. It was also a time for the Notre Dame freshmen. 
Everyone and his brother knew thc>t Coach Digger Phelps had had an outstanding recruiting year for Not:·e Jame and that was quite evident on Friday night. Kelly Tripucka notched eight points anc Gilbert Salinas six, but for crowd-pleasing performances one had to point a finger at both Orlando Woolridge and Stan Wilen . Not only did the little "0" (actually he's 6-9) block three shots during' .s ten minutes on the floor, he kept the ball in play each time. And he's 10t even 18 year~ old yet. 
Meanwhile, Mr. Wilcox was teaming with senior Jeff Carpenter to form a hard pressing backcourt duo. that should be seeing a lot of action this year. Not only is Wilcox the deft ball handler, he is quite the defensive guard. His three rebounds and. three steals will that. And did you see who was screening out 7-4 Vladimir Tkachenko when Carpie drove the middle for a layup? It was 6-3 Stan Wilcox, of course. 
Friday's night game between Notre Dame and the USSR was an ideal basketball attraction, the type of attraction that is not usually seen unless a UCLA or Maryland visits the ACC in mid-winter. Not only was it a. showcase of outstanding basketball, it was a friendly form of diplomacy. By the way Digger, how did Sergei Belov enjoy your stamp collection? 
. Have a pleasant Thanksgiving. 
%Observer 





Sports 
Student Cotton Bowl tickets to go on sale in December 
Tickets for Notre Dame and St. Mary's students for the .January 2 Cotton Bowl will go on sale at the second floor ticket window of the ACC according to the following schedule: Seniors: Tuesday, December 6 .Juniors, Graduate and Law Stu­dents: Wednesday, December 7 Sophomores: Thursday, December 8 Freshmen: Friday, December 9 
Fifteen hundred tickets will be held for students and issued according to the above priorities or until the supply is exhausted. You 

Payton breaks record 
CIDCAGO [AP]-Durable Walter Payton, having smashed O.J. Simpson's single-game rushing re­cord, is squeezing The Juice again. 
The 23-year-old Chicago Bear superstar didn't allow O.J.'s sin­gle-game record of 273 yards, set 

-last Thanksgiving Day, to stand for even a full year. Payton went two yards better Sunday, hammering 
=·=============:====:==========================:=============================================== 
I ' R 
must present your ID card at the time of the purchase. 
Students may purchase one reserved seat at $5.00. This represents a discount of SO percent from the regular price. Reduced price is based upon personal use of the ticket. You must present your ticket and your Notre Dame or St. Mary's identification card at a special gate for admission to the Cotton Bowl. Our inadequate ticket supply will not permit more than one ticket per student. 
Box office hours are from 9a. m. to Sp.m. including the noon hour. 
the Minnesota Vikings 40 times for 275 yards in a 10-7 victory. 
Now Payton is zeroing in on 0. J.'s season record of 2,003 yards, set in 1973_, With four games left Payton nedds an average of 150 yards a game to accomplish the feat. Payton has averaged 140.4 yards and 23.9 carries a game. projected that would give him 1, 966 yards for 14 games. But in his last two games he has averaged 36.5 carries and 233.5 yards a game. 
When Payton carried 33 times for 192 yards against Kansas City the previous Sunday, Chicago quarterback Bob Avellini was asked if such strategy is advisable. 
"When you have a Walter Payton around, you'd better give him the ball 30 times a game," said Avellini. 
Bettering his word, Avellini at­tempted but one pass in the first half of the Minnesota game and gave the ball to Payton 26 times. 
So far, in this his third year in the NFL, the former Jackson State star has proven to be more than durable. Instead of being punished by defensemen as is the usual case, Payton does the punishing. 
Opposing linemen and lineback· ers insist that Payton hits them harder than he gets hit because of his ability to twist and squirm. 
Payton maintains a facade of modesty, always insisting that the credit should go to his line. 
His offensive line has to be one of the youngest in the league with an averge age of 24. They are center Dan Peiffer, 26; Noah Jackson 26; Revie Sorie, 24; Dennis Lick 23; and Ted Albrecht, 23. Peiffer, Jackson and Sorey are third-year men, Lick is in his second year and Albrecht a rookie. 
One of the reasons they love blocking for Payton is they don't have to stand up and pass block which is an offensive lineman's toughest assignment. 1 Instead of getting hn oy oetensive linemen, they in turn do the hitting. 
"They open the holes and all I do is run," said Payton . 



