-------~-­
~----~--------~-----------------------------, 

Pass-fail option procedure changed 
by Jake Morrissey Staff Reporter 
The implementation of the new University policy regarding pass-fail options has taken effect this se­mester. Students now have seven days to inform the registrar's office that one of their courses will be graded pass-fail. The pass-fail option is for non-major courses and is open only tojuniorsand seniors. 

The change was made at the last regularly scheduled Academic Council meeting, May 2. At the meeting, student representative Robin Lavender presented a pro­posal to the council, suggesting that the phrase "the student may file with the registrar at the time of registration" be removed from the Academic Code and that a specific time period, 20 days, be put in its place. 
The 
"There's a discrepency in the time regulation," Lavender said. "We suggested 20 days, and it went through all of the channels. The Faculty Senate endorsed the proposal, and the Hall President's Council considered it." But when she told former Provost James T. Burtchaell about the change, shortly before the meeting, he said, "you may have a few problems with it." 
Observer 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's Thursday, September 1, 1977Vol. XII, No 3 
According to council minutes, there was some discussion as to changing the time period. "The present policy," the minutes read, "though it does not appear in print, is to allow ten days to make the decision about pass-fail." 
"The purpose of the motion," Lavender said, "is to allow the students more time to decide ...the decision should bemadeon experi­ence in the class, not what you hear from your friends." 
But the council expressed some concern that students would select the pass-fail option for the purpose of creating "a lazy course," rather than using the option as an opportunity to explore new areas, as is "the original idea behind the entire option." 
Opposition to the proposal sur­faced when it was moved to amend the motion that the time period be actually reduced to seven class days. The rationale, according to the minutes, was "the students should make the decision about pass-fail before he starts getting grades for work in the course. H the motion is approved, the student would have a clouded commitment for a month or so.'' The motion, as amended to seven class days, was approved by a voice vote. 
"We (the student representa­tives,) were stunned," Lavender said. "We didn't have any inkling that something like this would happen." It is not known if the proposal will be resubmitted at a future Academic Council meeting. 
In other action taken by the Acaemic Council, the .board vetoed a proposal tore-initiate the evening examinations as an alternative to the Tuesday-Thursday monring departmentals at 8 a.m. 
The minutes of the meeting state that the validity of a survey taken by the Faculty Senate on the subject of departmental exami­nations was questioned. "The council should not invite prolifer­ation of examination periods which is what this policy does, and · further, the proposal does not have the good of the students in mind.'' Although the motion was defeated, the study is scheduled for recon­sideration next year. 
Student beaten over summer 
Library experiences security problems 
by 10e student to campus security, security. According to the dean he own security force Is designed Roemer also cited his experience 
Tom Byrne where inquiries about the Incident was not a member of the University primarily to combat excessive noise with cases of exhibitionism as city 
Campus News Editor had alread reach their attention. community. and book thefts, close cooperations attorney In South Bend, char­
Roermer explained that the at­Roemer Indicated that the pres­Is maintained between campus acterizing suc)l persons as nonvio­
A FEMALE Notre Dame student tacker was subsequently expeUed ent security force employed by the security and the library.the dean lent. was attacked and beaten In the and advised to continue under Ubrary is In his judgment, adequate added that some Incidents of The victim also remarked that Memorial Library tower on June 21 "professional care." The dean protection from future Incidents of exhibitionism were Inevitable In Increased security protection would 
also emphasized that no sexual
by a fellow student who bas since Indecent exposure. He explained areas in which large numbers of probably not have prevented the been "separated from the com­offense was Involved In the Inci­that although the library people regularly congregate. attack. 
dent.
munity", according to University 
Dean of Students James Roemer. 
The victim, retumlng to the elevator on the library's tenth Door 
Crackdown nails Chicago
when she noticed a male student standing near the water fountain. Without saying a word, the man suddenly turned and struck her 
for illegal money use repeatedly about the face, neck and back. According to the victim, he then left the scene but returned 
W ASBINGTON [AP) -The Labor used ."a political referral system" this year, but MarshiUI said themoments later and resumed his Department said yesterday that to hand out the $10,000-a-year jobs abused found in the Labor Depart­attack. The victim's only other Chicago illegally used federal job provided by the program as politi-ment's three-week investigationrecoUection was the sound of the money for political hiring and cal favors to persons recommended involved only about 250 jobs. Theelevator by which the man ap­ordered the city to repay nearly $1 by local politicians instead of city has been allotted a total of $129 parently Ded. 
million as the start of a broad allotting them to the unemployed million for its program. 
Two students on a lower Door 
Ac,cordbltll to the victim, Roemer federal crackdown on such abuses on a first come basis. used them in City officials in Chicago were not later told the student that they also provided assistance In the in cities around the country. projects traditionally performed by available for immediate comment. could bear her cries but were filing of criminal charges against Labor Secretary Ray Marshall regular city employees. In once The Carter administration has unable to determine from which her assailant. "Roemer was very said an investigation found that case, he said, CET A workers were given the public service jobs pro­Door they were coming. They helpful," she said. "Be did alot Dlicago used a ''political referral used to fdl oothole-s, a job normallY_ gram a high priority in its effort to arrived on the tenth Door shortly for me." She added that accused system"to fill jobs intended for the • filled ,I_ regula~ street department bring down unemployment. The after the assault and assisted the student is awaiting arraignment on long-term unemployed, and an­employees. · program was doubled from 300,000 
the charges.
victim to St. Joseph's Hospital, nounced probes into similar allega­'Marshall;aid he doesn't think job~ earlier this year to a new where she was treated for her tions in Atlanta, Gary, Ind., and driminal violations were involved in national level of 725,000. 
OTHER LIBRARY INCIDENTS

injuries and later released. New York City. 
the Chicago case and he isn't There have ben charges in
The jobs program is embodied in 
Her attacker, a Notre Dame referring it to the Justice Depart-· Congress that some cities were
Roemer also disclosed that the 

the Comprehensive Employment
student, went directly home from ment. . using public service jobs funds to
Ubrary had experienced other se­
and Training Act under which the
the scene and confessed to his wife, About half of Chicago's 15,000 pay regular city workers to perform 
curity problems as recently as last 
federal government is paying the
who accompanied him immediately CETAjobs have already been filled their regular city tasks. 
year. A man believed to be 
states and cities $5.5 billion to put
to the Notre Dame lnflnnary to visit responsible for several Incidents of 
725,000 unemployed persons in
Psychological Services. According Indecent exposure In the library public service jobs. 
to Roemer, officials there escorted last year was apprehended by 
The program is intended to · create new jobs to ease unemploy­
Lance in' 'good shape'
ment and requires that applicants
Tongsun Park indicted 
be unemployed for a minimum of IS SAN ANTONIA* TEXAS [AP] • Bank of Calhoun, Ga., and the 
weeks. Bert Lance, President Carter's National Bank of Ge~gia in At­Marshall said Chicago has a­lanta.
W ASBINGTON [AP] • A federal The Post quoted a source famil­budget director, says he thinks he's 
greed to reimburse $955,460 to the in "good shape" at the White
grand jury has returned a secret iar with the evidence involving Carter administration officials,
Labor Department, which will re­House, despite the controversy
indictment against Tongsun Park, a Park as saying the indictment was particularly the President's news
turn the funds to the Chicago
central figure in the investigation likely to involve a bribery statute. surrounding his,personal finances, s~tary~.Jody Powell, have de­cETA program. and has no fears of losing his job. 
of alleged South Korean inDuence Although there is no extradition fended the director of the Office of 
buying in Congress, The Washin_g­treaty with South Korea, the Post 1n addition, he said, the iDlinois Lance, smiling and affable, spoke Management and Budllet.Bureau of Employment Security, a with a crown of yelling pushing
ton Post reported in today' s edition quoted one source as saying the Lance was asked by reporters instate agency, will be given respons­reporters as he left after making aindictment could be used as "am­
Park, a Korean-born, Washing­San Antonio about a published
ibility for processing and referring
munition" in the effort to get Park speech to the Southern Governor's 
ton-based businesman, fled to Eng­report yesterday that he was con­
CET A applicants to the city and a Conference.
to return voluntarily to the United
land after the investigation began sidering leaving the administra­
full-time federal monitor will en­
States. Another speaker at the confer­
last fall and was last reported to be tion.
sure compliance with the regula­
Since the charges would not be ence, Robert Strauss, ·the Presi­
in South Korea, which has no 
tions. dent's spectai representative for "No, I'm not thinking of leaving,"made public until the indictmentextradition treaty with the United "We cannot tolerate serious trade negotiations, said Lance's I he said. "I'm just trying to do thewas unsealed, Park's agreement toStates. 
come back to the United States and ,violations of CETA regulations, " financial problems would not have Ijob that needs to be done." -·Marshall told a news conference.
The Post said the sealed indict­cooperate could result in the indict­been front page news in times . .. . 
ment on an unknown charge was 'with the unemployment rate at 6. 9 other than "the dull days of I He s,atd he saw no wavenng"in
ment being dropped, the source 
filed last Friday in the U.S. District was quoted as saying. per cent, this program represents August." l Carter s confidence. • Court here. Park, a 42-year-old ·millionaire Lance has been under fire in "I don't see that at all••. tM ·
the last hope of meaningful em­
A Justice Department spokes­rice dealer, said in Seoul last week ployment for hundreds of thou-recent weeks for financial activities sttengm Of support from the Wbife man declined comment on the that he had no intention of return­sands of men and women." , which occurred wbile Lance was House has , been very obvious. newspaper's story. ing to the United States. In Chicago, Marshall said officials Ipresideftt nf the Fmt Natiaul We're in good shape." 


2 

__the ob~erver Thursday, September 1, 1977 
,__..--~News Briefs--­
1-===::=:::::::-====:=:=====International 
Toth let off hook 
MOSCOW • A Soviet newspaper said yesterday authorities had grounds to try Los Angeles Times correspondent Robert C. Toth for espionage but held off as a gesture of friendship to the United States. The newspaper said he had worked as a spy for U.S. agencies, had tried to subvert Soviet citizens to become informers and had tried to learn about secret Soviet installations. 


Diplomat moves in 
HAVANA • CUBA • The first U.S. diplomat to set up shop in Cuba in more than 16 years toured the old American embassy yesterday and found the long-closed facility a storehouse of 1950's nostalgia. Lyle Lane, a 51-year-old career diplomat, will head the 10-member U.S. "interest section" to be established here today while in Washington a simil~r size Cuban contingent reopens its country's embassy. 
1


:==··~-·~=-·~~=========Nationru 
Amtrak raises prices 
WASHINGTON , Amtrak announced fare increases averaging 2112 percent coupled with major cutbacks in Northeastern rail service yesterday saying it was acting to curtail losses. An average of 22 trains a day will be cut from the 120 operated in the Northeastern corridor between Boston and Washington, officials said. The cutbacks are effective Oct. 30. 
---On Campus Today-
S p.m. picnic/ carnival, picnic followed by carnival for all smc/nd students. smc d.lnlna ball green. sponsored by smc student activities .. 
6:30 p.m. Dim, "st. augustine," sponsored by howard hall religious commission and academic-cultural commis­sion, howard hall.' 
In Rhodesia 

Smith retains control 
SALISBURY* ~iJodesla [AP] • found the buried bodies of eight Prime Minister Ian Smith retairv•A guerrillas slain in factional fighting control of parliament in Rhodesia's between the two main nationalist general election, and when vote-movements operating inside Rho-counting paused late yesterday desia. appeared certain of the two-thirds The spokesman claimed this was majority he needs to negotiate a the beginning of civil was between racial settlement on his own terms. the Zimbabwa African National 
Partial results of balloting by the Union led by Robert Mugabe and mostly white electorate gave the Zimbabwe African Peoples' Smith's Rhodesian Front party 55 Union of Joshua Nkomo. of the 44 seats he needs for a • Smith was unopposed for his seat two-thirds majority in the House of in Parliament. Assembly. Returns from rural areas, where Smith is strong, are 
Reporters needed

expected Thursday. There are 66 seats in the House, 

at Observer

SO reserved for whites. 
Smith's party held 39 seats There will be a meeting tonight before the election, which he called for all who are interested in in an attempt to obtain the 44;seat becoming Observer reporters at block that will enable him to make 7:30p.m. in the Observer offices on constitutional changes. the top floor of LaFortune. All are 
Such changes would allow him to welcome to attend. work out a power-shaping ar­If you want to write for the rangement with moderates in Rho­Observer and are unable to attend desia's black majority and resist an I this meeting, call Kathy at 7471. Anglo-American plan that report­edly calls for his ouster and disbanding of Rhodesia's white-led Jazz Band army. 
Late yesterday, Smith reiterated holds tryouts his intention to seek talks with local black leaders unlinked to the Tryouts for the 1977-78 Notre guerrillas who since 1972 have been Dame Jazz Bands and combos will fighting to topple his government. be held in the Jazz Band Loft (2nd None of the moderate black leaders floor of the Band Annex Bldg. 
however, has yet agreed to meet opposite the Huddle) Sunday after­with Smith. noon at 1 p.m .. 
In another development, a mili­Openings exist on all instru­tary spokesman said yesterday that ments with bass players needed in southeastern Rhodesia's Ma­especially. If any student is randa tribal reserve, soldiers had interested in learning to play jazz, 
they are invited to attend the tryouts. No previous jazz experi­

rhe Obsf'rver os publo~hed Monday through r nday 
ence is needed. Drum sets and except durmg 
amps will be provided for the the exam and vacat1on penods The 
auditions. Ob>erwr IS published by students of 
The Notre Dame Jazz Bands,

the Umver>lty of Notre Dame and 
now in their 6th year, perform

St Mary's College Subsrnptlom 
regularly in the Nazz, at the

may be purchased for $20 per YE'ar ($10 per sE'mester) from The ObsE'r­
Collegiate Jazz Festival and at ver, Box Q, Notre Dame. lnd1ana 
other events. 46556 Second class postage paid, 
Further information can be ob­
Notre Dame, lnd1ana 46556 
tained from Fr. George Wiskir­

The Obst>rver IS a membf'r of the 
chen, C.S.C., director of the Jazz

Associated Press All reproductiOn nght> are reservt>d 
Bands, in the Band Office (7136). 

' . . . ." ... ..... ... .... .. . . . .. . . .. ... " .
. . . ..... . 

Theft prevention program planned 
During the 1977-78 academic 
•ear the Lost and Found office will onduct the bicycle registration and [all Marc' d Theft Prevention pro­
grams. 
Located in room 121 of the Administration building, the office operates from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. Monday through Friday. 
Any student who loses an 811icle may fill out a card at the office identifying it. It the article is later found, the student will be contac­ted. It something is found it should be brought to room 121 or to the lost and found office in any of the classroom buildings. 
Students who have not regisrt­ered their bicycles may do so at the Lost and Found office , d011'ing regular hours. Although it is not required bicycle registration hdps deter theft. By paying a one dollar registration fee, the bike's serial number is placed in the nationwide Computer Guard program, which will identify and return it if stolen and later recovered. 
Bicycle registration is neces!;ary if one wishes to store a bicycle~ in the stadium during the winter. 
The Lost and Found office also operates the campus Hall Marc' d program. This involved marking students' personal possessions with diamond tipped pens. Hall presidents will be contacted colll­cerning this program. 
Hurricane Anita nearing coastline 
NEW ORLEANS [AP] • Hurri­
cane Anita was a violent whirl of 
95-mile-an-hour winds yesterday, 
its center still skirting the Louisi­
ana coast about 250 miles out, 
creeping slowly toward Texas and 
gathering strength from the warm 
Gulf of Mexico. 
"It looks bad for Texas but good 
for us," said Philip Trosclair, 
assistant Civil Defense director at 
nearly deserted Cameron, La.. , a 
town of about 3,500 just off the 
low-lying beach. 
The town is a veteran of the 
hurricane season. In 1957, Hurri­
cane Audrey turned ashore one
night, crowning 600 people. 
A hurricane watch was in effect 
yesterday along 930 miles of c:oast 
from Louisiana's Vermilion .Bay, 
south of New Iberia, to the Mexican 
border. Evacuations were begin­
ning along the Texas coast. 
But Anita's slow advance to the 
west allowed some oil companies to 
send workers back to offshore 
production platforms behind the 
storm. 
A private forecasting firm, 
StormNet, which works primarily 
for oil companies' along the n:xas 
coast, predicted that the storm 
would go ashore at Corpus Christi 
around 8 p.m.. A spokesmar:~ for 
the National Hurricane Center in 
Miami said military information 
produced the same prediction, but 
cautioned that it was strictly a 
long-range forecast. 
The storm, after drifting alotJ1g at 
about five miles an hour most olf the 
day, speeded up to about st:ven 
miles an hour last might, the 
National Hurricane Center report­
ed. Anita's center was reported at 
latitude 26.1 north, longitude 92.9 
west, or about 300 miles east· 
southeast of Corpus Christi. 
Sustained winds were 95 miles an 
hour, with gales extending 200 
miles to the east and 100 miles to 
the west. 
,· ' 
E R\Oi 
HCHNl 8 ..\R\'" 
Paul Pugh. BookseiiPr 

FREE COFFEE & CONVERSATION' ·Hour~ 10 q M Th I 1()7. F& S/ 12·6 Sundav 
il.flip<>r ;to Clewland. liJm riqht . thm letr at (ororqplown siq:> 
Welcome to ShuIa 's the ~Rock of Michiana' 

• Live Music eDisco 
• Foxy Lady Night Every Wednesday eMust be 18 
e1 Mile North of the State Line 





SBDLJrS 
••.,.CLUB 
On U.S. 31 between Niles and South Bend-Free Parking-Ph. 683-4350 
CONTINUOUS ENTERTAINMENT FROM 9 P.M. TILL 2 A.M. 
.__________________________. 
0~ adidas 
speciality store 

BACK TO SCHOOl 
IN ADIDAS REG Tournament Red $24.95 Antelope $18.95 Match-Red $13.50  NOW 18.95 12.9 7.95  
IRREGULAR T-SHIRTS  $1.95  

Poster Give-Away With $5.00 Purchase 

Prize Drawing 
no purchase necessary FRIDAY, SATURDAY, AND SUNDAY SEPTEMBER 2,3,4 
PHONE


100 CENTER 
255-7770 


MI-SHAWAKA 
--------~------~-----­
~---­

Thursday, Septeml!oer 1, 1977 the observer 


Carter oversight leads to 'free ride' 
WASHINGTON [AP] ·The White House said yesterday that through an oversight the Carter campaign committee failed to pay for rides by candidate Jimmy Carter on corpor­ate and state-owned planes during a swing through the Carolinas in Aprill975. 
-But Doug Huron, a campaign committee official and now a White House attorney, said the money ­approximately 51,000 -is being paid, now that the matter was brought to the Administration's attention. 
The free airplane rides were disclosed yesterday by the Wash­ington bureau of the Cox Newspa­per chain. 
Huron also said the disclosure 
had prompted campaign officials to 
go back over their books to deter­
mine if any other similar rides on 
small chartered planes had not 
been paid for. 
However, Huron said that the 
campaign had previously paid bills 
totaling $151,332 for small charter 
planes. He said this demonstrated there was nothing intentional in the failure to pay for the trip through the Carolinas. 
"It's not like we had a practice of not payin.g for those plane trips, '' Huron satd. 
Carter took five flights during a three-day swing through North and South Carolina in April 1975. 
Two of the flights were paid for by R. R. "Bobby" Allen on a plane owned by D. R. Allen and Son, Inc., of Fayetteville, N.C .. 
Huron said that Allen was being reimbursed for 5271.25 for the plane trips since Allen had previ­ously contributed $1,000 to the Carter campaign, the legal limit for individuals under federal law. 
Huron noted that the plane rides Allen paid for were not corporate funds and said Allen apparently failed to bill for the flights because he wasn't aware of the $1,000 contribution limit. 
A secretary at Allen's construc­tion firm in North Carolina said Allen was out of the office and 
Saint· Mary's Senior Bar still in planning stage 
byPatThom 

Plans to open a Senior Bar on the Saint Mary's campus are still in a negotiating stage, according to Nancy Mogab, Senior Class president. While the major obstacle at the moment is the legal problem of obtaining a license to sell beer, the proposed bar has the support of St. Mary's President John Duggan and Dean of Student Affairs Kathleen Rice. Although problems with off-campus bars and state drinking age laws exist, the administration of Saint Mary's expresses optimism about obtaining a license by next semester. 
The college itself is taking out the beer license, although each senior class at SMC will undoubtedly have an active part in the managing of the bar Mogab noted. Some ideas currently being discussed involve situating the bar in a section of the Snack Bar on 
Senior Class Trip finalized 

Plans for the Senior Class Trip, to San Francisco Oct. 23-28 have been finalized. The cost has been reduced from 275 to 270 dollars, and the balance cost for those who have already paid their deposit is 220 dollars. 
Not everyone who paid a deposit has been confirmed, however, a waiting list will be posted in the Huddle and in LeMans Hall. 
Cost of the trip includes trans­portation from South Bend to San Francisco. Flights have been arranged on a Trans :::nternational Airlines DC8, leaving from South Bend, and on an American Airlines 707 leaving from Chicago. 254 passengers will fly on the DC 8 while 173 passengers will be trans~ ported to Chicago by motor coach to fly on the 707. 
· Also included in the price are five nights accomodations at the Jack Tar Hotel in Union Square and campus, having SAGA Food ser­vices run the bar, and having the bar managed exclusively by the senior class. 
For the moment, Mogab stated, plans are being made to utilize the SMC clubhouse for seniors, faculty, and alumni ''TGIF parties." The first of these will be held on September 30, before the Michigan State football game, she said. Since the senior class cannot yet legally sell beer, donations will be taken at the clubhouse during each party. Approximately six such get togethers are planned for the current semester, with variations possibly including wine and cheese parties or silent movie showings. 
Anyone interested in forming a SMC Senior Bar committee should contact Dr. Rice in room 172 Lemans. Underclassmen are encouraged to join "since they would derive the most future benefit from the effort," Mogab noted. 
five days unlimited use of an Avis Rental Car. Both the rooms and the cars are for quadruple occupancy. All insurances are included. 
Collection for the remainder of the cost will take place at Notre Dame in Lafortune Lobby from Sept. S-9 between noon and four o'clock. At. St. Mary's, money will be collected from Sept. S-8 between 7 and 10 p.m. at LeMansLobby. 
Confirmed students should start organizing room situations in re­gards to roommates. Those re­questing specific roommates should bring the J.D.'s of all four members with them to registration. 
Students are reminded that reservations for the trip cannot be sold or transferred. However, anyone who is sure that they will not be able to go, who is on the confirmed list, should contact Terry at Student Activities at 7308. 
could not be reached immediately. . Harvey Diamond of Charlotte, 
Allen became a member of the · N.C .. the finance committee for Carter's Huron said a chech would be sent inauguration and was named to the out for $568.73 to reimburse the executive board of the Democratic firm for two chartered flights. National Finance Council last Janu-Corporate campaign contribu­ary. tions are illegal. 
The other firm involved in the Huron said that the Carter Carolina campaign trip was the campaign committee apparently Diamond Supply Co. headed by overlooked the Diamond company 
Registration now open for child music program 
Registration for Notre Dame's Preparatory Program, a program through which the Notre Dame Music Department has made music lessons available at reasonable cost to children of all University em­ployees, will take place Saturday, September 3, from 9 to 12 a.m. in room 124, Crowley Hall of Music. The program offers private instntc­tion, in weekly half hour lessons, in all orchestral, band, and keyboard instruments. 
Instruction is given by Music Department faculty, by qualified graduate majors, and by local music professionals working through the department. Lessons are available in seven week units at a cost of thirty dollars per unit. All instruction takes place in Crowley Hall of Music from 3:30 to 6 p.m. Monday through Friday, and from 9 a.m. to 1 p.m. Saturday. 
The Prep Program, now in its third year, was initiated by Music Deoartment Chairman William Cerny, whose intent was to benefit University children, and to strengthen Notre Dame as a self­sustaining musical community of students, teachers, performers, and audience. 
Although the program currently offers only private lessons, various group experiences, such as child­ren's voice class, theory lessons, and chamber ensembles, will be organized on the basis of demand. 
MEETING for all people who want to be Observer reoorters TONITE (Thursday) at 7:30 in the Observer Office 
(if unable to attend , call Kathy at 7471) 
when it mailed out thousands of letters to firms that bad helped the campaign, asking to be billed for any expenditures by the company. 
Harvey Diamond was not imme­diately available for comment. 
The fifth flight during Carter's trip to the Crolinas was paid for by the State of South Carolina and Huron estimated that the cost of the flight would be about $200. Carter was accompanied on the flight on the state-owned plane by Lt. Gov. W.. Brantley Harvey of South Carolina. 
It was previously disclosed dur­ing the investigation of the finances of budget director Bert Lance that Carter was not billed for five other flights valued at $1,793 on a plane owned by the National Bank of Georgia. 
Save on Calculators 
Hewlett-Packard 


•
T!VCOtiN Plwa!Hiyou•l bUylltgaon Cu1oll4 -povfMIOIII.-1 
SIJ!peo~CNilaJia"'II!Siftper"" 
ff.,ntJrapnl""lhonconlln_,.IIUSADnCoiiHf'lul
• 
~:z.:.~~!:.W'~~z=.~~-c;;~uH.;'~....S~· 
Pt1CUI,.IOblAGIIGibS~~bt't!IOU...IIIo""AU.Iorou<l-tui81ot Wa Mil~••, any priu ll 1111 tOIIIptniHI~ has 1h1 giiOdl 11ft han~ Add liiiOiat ~ng "-All~ ~:altu'-ton tA rnodtmo ttkl6'!1o sills._. 





WHERE 'IN '0 THE GREEN? 
at 

Anything Grows (of course) 
53600 N. Ironwood Dr. Phone 272-8820 Near The Campus 
•we've got plants for desk and tabletop 
• houseplants 
. . . to hang and to hold
• Irven up your 11fe with a live plant 

• fabulous floor plants 
~-a"\S' 
~ ~\S, v •
"'~~ •e. V:a,, "'\S • happy, healthy plants '5l1Per ~mol 
',~.. "a'· Of vc'ecti0 '17 
~,~e. .1 '((\0'(e. V sold here green ·~ a"u Plants
.PLUS a glcrious gift shop and cards for an occasions 

15o/0 0FF ·
with this coupon 
53600 NORTH IRONWOOD DRIVE SOUTH BEND, INDIANA 46635 

ALL HOUSEPLANTS 
and GIFTS 
~ ~·J 
special offer thru September 7 ~~ 
... 

..~----~------------------------------~------.-~~------~--~·~-.---·--~~----------------------------------.--------------------~~ 
DOONESBURY by Garry Trudeau 
*The Observer 
EDITORIAl BOARD 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's Marti Hogan Editor-in-Chief Martha Fanning Managing Editor Bob Brink Asst. Managing Ed.
The Observer is published by students of the University 
Kathy Mills Executive Editor
of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College It does not 
Maureen Flynn Editorial Editor
necessarily reflect the policies of either institution. The 
Barb Breitenstein Exec. News Editor
news is reported as accurately and as objectively as 
Tom Byrne Campus Editor
possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of 
Jean Powley St. Mary's Editor
the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions and letters Katie Kerwin News Editorare the views of their authors. Column space is available Paul Stevenson Sports Editorto all members of the community, and letters are 
Pat Cole Special Projects Ed.
encouraged to promote the free expression of varying 
David O'Keefe Features Editor
opinions on campus. 
Box Q 

Business Manager Sue Quigley Advertising Manager Steve Bonomo 
Notre Dame Copy Editor Barb Langhenry Ind. 46556 Leo Hansen
Production Manager Karen Chiarnes Photo Editor 
Thursday, September 1, 1977 



Principles all-important 
Editor's Notez The foUowlng letter Is a copy of one sent to University President Fr. Theodore M. Res­burgh In earJ:v July. This letter was edited for length. 
Dear Sir: 
I am compelled to write this letter as I am seriously disturbed by the AI Hunter suspension, but most by the procedures and events which were involved in the suspen­
sion. 
I am a man 64 years old and the father of four sons who ~~:raduated from Notre Dame from 1967 to 1976. 
If the facts as set forth in The 
Chicago Tribune by David Condon 
on June 4 and the news release of 
June 30 are accurate and true, it 
has left me with a very strong 
impression that a shoddy system 
of justice has been allowed by the 
University. 
The fact that the original six-man judicial board found all six stu­dents, including AI Hunter, inno­cent should have closed the case. 
The appeal board employed to suspend AI Hunter, I believe, may be a perversion of justice because of the manner in which it was used. It appears that the original intent of such an appeals board was to make sure that the accused person be provided with a positive recourse to protect himself and his reputation. 
In this case the appeals board was employed in an introverted and perverted manner to place Mr. Hunter in double jeopardy, try him twice and insure his conviction by a three-man board of which James Roemer was a member. 
The President of Notre Dame, a leader in the fight for civil rights and justice, cannot overlook these right at home. 
The names involved in this case 



P.O. BOX Q 
are unimportant, but the principles involved are all-important. Questions: 
1) Were the accused allowed to attend their own trials? 
2) Were the accused allowed to confront their accusers at the trial and submit their own testimony? 
3) Any evidence at the trials against the accused would be, I assume, in the form of testimony from persons classified as accusers. Is this correct? 
I trust the problem can be resolved for the best interests of all. 
Good luck. Albert C. Francis 
Editor's Note: Roemer was not a member of the Appeals Board. 

Working together 
Dear Editor: On Tuesday night, August 31, the Student Union. in conjunction with Howard Hall, sponsored an outdoor concert on the South Quad. It was the first social event this year that the Student Union helped organize with a dorm, and I think I speak for most students who were there when I say it was a great success. This type of cooperation between the Student Union and dorms indicates that working to­gether is the best way of getting things done here at Notre Dame. Special thanks should be given to Orest Deychakiwsky, Student U­nion Social Commissioner, Jim Daly, President of Howard Hall, Tom Haller, Mick Mancusso, Mike Carlson, Gene Woloshyn and ev­eryone who had a part in setting up the concert. Without such dedi­cated service, these types of acti­

vities  would never get  off  the  
. ground.  
TomGryp  

Student Union Director 
-
.......__ 

'Don't judge 

my mistake'' 
Dear Editor: 
I am a lonely white prisoner incarcerated in C.M.R.C. at Columbus, Ohio. I am serving time for a very foolish mistake I've made. I am doing one-to-five years. I am not from Ohio and I have no friends or family. I am hoping that your college newspaper and the people will feel free to write. I will answer all letters. 
My name is Gregory D. Morris, I am 24 years of age, 5' 9" tall, I weigh 175 lbs. and I have brown hair and blue eyes. 
I am hoping people will not judge my mistake. 
Gregory D. Morris #147-965 C.M.R.C. P.O. Box511 Columbus, Ohio 43216 

'Write to me' 
Dear Editor: 
I have a special request I am asking. I am presently in the London Correction Facility and if it's at all possible I'd like a vf:ry small article printed in your cam­pus newspaper. This is what I'd like said: 
Libya-born male wishes to hc:ar from you. Is presently i.n the London Correction Facility for be­ing involved in a robbery. 
Very open-mineded, likes a.re many, all sports, music and the beauty of nature. 
No hang-ups over race or rdi­gion. Hope to make friends as to 
keep  in  touch  with  the  outside  
world.  
Carl Kildow  

135671 Box 69 London, Ohio 43140 
c 


wouldn't be deterred. He turned to haven't had a good "gut" foreign Ellstrom. "How can you sleep at issue in several years. Finally one night knowing some banana re­has come along that will divide public is occupying our canal?" brother against brother, family 
WASHINGTON --Americans "Very easily," Ellstrom said.
against family, conservative a­"If you would read up on it you'dgainst liberal, hardhat against stu­realize nothing of value can godent, and Sen. Strom Thurmond through it anymore. Our aircraftagainst President Jimmy Carter. 
carriers are too big for it, and most 

The issue, of course, is the oil tankers can't get into it. All 
Panama Canal and the battle has we're doing is supporting a bunch 
started already. I was in the Purple of Americans in the Zone who are 
Onion bar the other night when the living the life of Reilly." 
issu~-erupted after the seven Ellstrom didn't realize it, buto'clock news. 
Reilly was in the bar. "What's "Dammit," said Planter, "If the that? Who's living my life in Panamanians want the Canal 
Panama?" they're going to have to fight for "The Americans who work down it." 
there," Ellstrom said. Ellstrom said, "Let them have "Well, it can't be much of a the bloody ditch. The only thing life," Reilly laughed. "Would it's good for anymore is sailboats." anybody lik~ to buy me a beer?" 
Planter got red in the face. "Giving up the Panama Canal 
"How can you say that and call is nothing to laugh at," Planter 
yourself an American? We ~ought said. "I say if the Panamanians try 
it, we paid for it and we dted for to take the Canal from us we 
it." should drop the bomb on them." 
"That's how much you know 
about it," Ellstrom said. "We 
McCarthy, the bartender, said, stole it from Colombia and forced 
"That wouldn't be a bad idea. At the Panamanians to sign a treaty 
least it would widen it enough for American Navy ships to getthey wanted no part of." 

through." You could see Planter was get­
Ellstrom stuck to his guns. "Iting mad. "You didn't learn that in am not about to go to war over no American School. You must Panama.''

have read it in some Commie 
paper. The Panama Canal was Planter said, "Well, you mightbuilt with American blood. Twenty not be, but there are millions ofthousand of our boys died to join Americans who are. Teddy Roose­the Atlantic and Pacific oceans." 
velt must be turning over in his grave now, knowing that the Presi­"They weren't American boys," dent of the United States is going to said Ellstrom. "They were mostly give away the greatest man-madeWest Indians hired to do the dirty body of water in the world." 
work. All we put up was our know-how and money. It ain't I didn't want to get into theworth fighting about." 
discussion, but I couldn't help 
myself. "I suggested a compro-

Pianter rolled up his sleeves. mise some time back. And that is "Well, I'm ready to fight about it. we fill in the Canal with dirt and We were given the Panama Canal give it back to the Panamanians in perpetuity. That means for life · just the way we found it. Would orforever, whichever comes first." that satisfy both of you?" 
McCarthy, the bartender, said, "Let's have no fighting in here Ellstrom sipped his drink and about the Canal. You want to fight said, "I couldn't care less." about it you buy a ticket to the W~ all ~m~d to Plant~r for h,is Canal Zone and slug it out there." reactton. I mt~ht go fo~ rt, but I II 
Someone tried to bring up the have to check tt out wtth Ronald Washingto~.!l~ds~hts, t>Jit.l~hlttter .•..R~agan first." ,•.<· 
•·--~--~--'----'-'-'----'--'---------------':...:_-...:...!.-'-'.-"----------l 

--~ -----------......-..~--~~--~ -~-----------...------w-------, 
Thursday, Septembe~ 1, 1977 the observer 
5


Ullman calls for tax cuts 

W ASHINTON [AP] • The 
chairman of the House's tax writ­
ing committee suggested yesterday 
that if the slow economic recovery 
falters, the nation may need a tax 
cut "even more" in the forthcom­
ing attempt to overhaul the basic 
tax laws. 
Rep. AI Ullman, D-Ore., chair­man of the Ways and Means Committee, spoke briefly with re­porters after an hour-long meeting with President Jimmy Carter. 
Carter is scheduled to send to 
Congress in the next few weeks his 
proposals for a broad revamping of 
the revenue code. It is expected to 
envisage a net reduction for both 
individuals and businesses, al­
though some existing tax advan­
tages would be eliminated. 
Ullman would not discuss his conversation with Carter. But when he was asked whether the country could afford cutting tax revenues if the economy slipped into recession, he replied, "I think we may need it even more. What we do could be very helpful to the economy.'' 
Calls for a tax cut to speed the growth of the economy already are sounding as Congress begins tak­ing sides on proposals to change the tax laws, even though no votes are in sight before next year. 
House Republican leader John, 
J. Rhodes of Arizona said in a recent speech that an across-the­board cut should have first priority as a way to "stimulate the economy encourage capital formation and help taxpayers meet the challenge of inflation." 
House Democratic whip John Brademas of Indiana said in an interview that Carter's goal of a balanced budget by 1981 requires measures to "stabilize purchasing power,'' encourage growth of the economy and reduce unemploy­ment. · 
Carter is understood to be mak­ing the final decisions on what to include in his tax package and the specific proposals have not been disclosed. His fiscal advisors are 
Arrest two in Elvis plot 
MEMPIDS [AP] • An attorney for two men arrested after police were told there was a plot to steal and ransom Elvis Presley's body sug­gested yesterday that his clients were themselves the victim vf a plot. 
Police staked out Presley's tomb on a tip from Ronnie Lee Adkins, 26, and arrested Adkins and two other men in and outside Forest Hill Cemetery early Monday morn­ing. 
"I'm not going to try this case in the newspapers," lawyer Jay Fred Friedman said. "But you can make any judgment you want about Mr. Adkins .. .If they ever open up this can of worms, I'm afraid somebody is going to be embarrassed." 
Adkins was among those arrest­ed. Also arrested were Raymond 
M. Green, 25, and Bruce Eugene Nelson, 30, Friedman's clients. Allwere charged with trespassing, but Police Director E. Winslow Chapman said Tuesday the charges against Adkins would be dropped. 
Chapman, who was unavailable for comment yesterday, said earlier this week that Adkins had been an unpaid informant for about a year. 
"Neither of my clients went ouf there to do anything to any grave, or any final resting place," Fried­man said. 
Adkins would not comment a­bout his role in the case yesterday, but he told a Memphis television station he had been in contact with several national publications about telling his story. _ Chapman said Adkins first told police there was a plot to steal the body only hours after the 42-year­old Presley died Aug. 16. 
''According to him the plan was to steal the body while it was at the funeral home, but because we had such tight security around the funeral home they didn't make their move," the police director said. • 
----'--'--'---------'--'-----__:__:_:_..:.... ___:_ 
known to have prepared a wide estate or other assets are sold after variety of options for eliminating being held for a specified period ­some long-standing deductions and are taxed at half the rate for provisions favoring certain kinds of ordinary income. income and for offsetting these The deduction of mofta'a~einterest with reductions in tax rates for both is estimated to cost thi" Treasury individuals and businesses 
about $6 billion in the coming fiscal 
Two possibilities already are arousing spirited, if informal, de­1
=:-::j~~~~~y~=~..; •1 0oLo of·f-GALLO 1
bate. These are limiting the deduction of interest paid on home The favorable treatment of cap~ I .7 [ mortgages and eliminating or cur­itat gains is defended as an T bl w· I 
tailing the favorable treatment incentive for needed investment. It .I a e Ines I 
present law provides for capital is important also to all those who ·1 Regular price on gains. In general, capital gains -have seen assets, like houses, soar Almaden and 1 the profit taken when stocks, real in value because of inflation. 1 Sovereign wines $129 
750

Contrary to public opinion, I ml I 

Carter promotes treaty 
WASIDNGTON [AP]. President 
Carter is piling up endorsements, 
pitching for local support and 
planning the biggest formal blow­
out the White House has even seen 
to promote his treaty to give up
control of the Panama Canal. 
White House mail is overwhelm­
ingly against the treatY. 
"This is one of those items that 
falls on the shoulders of leaders 
which is not a popular thing," 
Carter said Tuesday in a sales talk 
to civic leaders from Florida and 
Georgia. 
"Many American-citizens, well-educated and very patriotic, think the treaty is not a gOod idea. ' 'To change their concepts is my responsibility-not to cajole, not to pressure, but, in a way, to educate, to lead. I would like you to join with me, if you can in good conscience, in that effort.'' 
Carter got immediate help from former Secretary of State Dean Rusk. He was part of the Georgia delegation to a briefing by the President and his aides in the state dining room at the White House. Afterward, Rusk, secretary of state during the Kennedy and Johnson administrations, was brought out to talk to reporters. 
He said Congress should give Carter the treat or unlimited power to defend the Panama Canal from guerrilla warfare. 
If the Senate rejects the treaty, Rusk said, "I think it would be irresponsible for the Congress not to exempt Panama from the War Powers Resolution." It requires presidents to justify any troop deployments that last longer than 

US , Soviet Union postpone SALT t~lkS 
WASIDNGTON [AP] • The Uni~ States and the Soviet Union are making "genuine progress" in arms limitation talks but have decided to defer for two weeks a top-level meeting aimed at produc­ing a new SALT agreement, the State Department said yesterday. 
Department spokesman Hodding Carter Illtold newsmen there is a "better understanding" between the two countries on the arms limitation question although "sub­stantial differences remain to be overcome." 
In an announcement made simul­taneously in Washington and Mos­cow, the two countries said the scheduled meeting in Vienna next week between Secretary of State Cyrus R. Vance and the Soviet Foreign Minister Andrei Gormyko has been called off. 
Instead, they will meet in Wash­ington on Sept. 22-23, taking advantage of Gromyko's presence in the United States for the opening of the .United Nations General Assembly sessions, the announce­ment said. 
On Oct. 3, the original SALT agreement limiting offensive wea­pons expires but Carter down­played the significance of that deadline. 
"We are more interested in having an agreement with which we· can live than in having an agreement reached against an arbi­trary deadline," Carter said. 
cian Dr.  Thompson  now  has  an  
assistant  at  the Center,  Dr.  S.  
Bernard Vagner.  

Vance has said previously he anticipates no serious difficulty if 
.:..:.__ _;__:.__'-'-.:--'---..:.___:._----'----------'--'----__,__:_----'--------'---------'--'----~~-~--· 
the deadline passes without a new agreement. 
Carter said that one of the remaining unresolved issues re­lates to limitations on the U.S. cruise missile, a low-flying pilotless missile launched by airplanes or submarines. 
New title for ND Infirmary 
The Notre Dame Infirmary has changed its name to the Student Health Center, according to Sr. Marion Ruidl, administrator. "The new title emphasizes the fact that care for the infirm is actually only one of many health care facilities offered here, " she noted. 
Ruidl mentioned the many serv­ices offered: 
-Thirty-eight beds are available for the sick, but the center also serves out-patients and has a pharmacy and a laboratory. 
-Allergy medication is distributed to students from 1 to 2:30 p.m. weekdays. Those interested in donating blOod may also do so at the center's facilities, which are affiliated with the Red Cross. 
-An orthopedic surgeon and a gynecologist are available by ap­pointment, and University physi­
Health Center hours will soon be posted in res!dence halls. 
.. 
60 days. 
Will there be guerilla war in 
Panama if the treaty dies? · 
"I would hope that would not 
occur,'' Rusk said., but to suppose 
that, he added, would be ''fool­
hardy". 

Carter also has won treaty sup­
port from former Secretary of State Henry A. Kissinger, who served in the Nixon and Ford administra­tions. 
As Carter planned similar brief­ings for other state and local leaders, the AFL-CIO formally endorsed the treaty, calling it an 
"enduring basis for harmony in the Western Hemisphere." The Unit­ed Auto workers unio followed suit. 
The President's staff set to work planning a White House state dinner next Wednesday for visiting heads of state who will observe the treaty signing at the headquarters here of the organization of Amen­can States. 
"Outside of a funeral for a President, never have there been so many heads of state for an official state function," said Mary Hoyt, a spokeswoman for First Lay Rosalynn Carter. 
As of Tuesday, 18 heads of state were planning to attend the signing ceremony. State Department spokesman Hodding Carter III said the final figure may exceed 20. 
But the ceremonies will be meaningless unless the Senate ratifieS'"th.c;: treaty, actually two agreements· yielding control of the canal by the year 2000 and guaran­teeing the United States perpetual rights to --defend the wate':Way against any threat. 
lwHITE TAVERN 4 tor $499 I I GIN or VODKA II
I mix or match 
1 S379 I 
fifth I
I or Budwe.·ser I 
I 3 $1 Q99 24 pack cans
1 for 
$649

1
I mix or match . 
I PRICES GOOD THRU SEPT 5 
1723 South Bend Ave. 
·' 

l\l.eiT1€TH ~-fO< ~ AlOCA5FIM DO I'!OJUCI1Cij 
STAR~ ~MARK HAMILL HMPliON ~ CAAAIE F1SHER P€lER CJSHING 
md 

I>J£( GlJNN€5.5 2 :00-4 :30-7 :00-9 :30 
~e~nees dally thru Labo·r Day ~'".i"'·""'~ no or discount tickets 
II 
Last day 'March or Die' 
STARTS FRIDAY 
He fought wars and 

won them. He defied Presidents-and· might have been one. 
GREGORY PECK 
as General 

MRARTHUR 
MATINEES DAILY THRU Mon Tbemo.tcoatro.....w
AlaeJtua bero of-time at 1:45-4:15-6:45-9:15 ...aad-beD ofa -· 
I I 
1 
I
I 
I 



~_. _____the observer ____!hursday, September 1,1977 
Carter to work on urban strategy
WASHINGTON [AP]. President Carter, under growing pressure from black leaders and the urban lobby, is directing his domestic policy advisors to finish work early next year. on a comprehensive strategy to slow down the decline of American cities. 
Chemist introduces testing procedure 
CHICAGO [APJ • A leading chem­ist said yesterday he has developed a relatively quick and easy way to determine which of the thousands of chemicals introduced in recent years may cause cancer. 
The chemist. Dr. Bruce N. Ames of the University of California­Berkeley, pointed out that since the 1950's this country has been "ex­posed to a flood of chemicals" that have not been tested to determine whether they cause cancer or alter genetic material. 
"A steep increase in human cancer may be the outcome if too many of the thousands of new chemicals to which humans have been exposed turn out to be powerful mutagens and carcino­gens'', Ames said. 
Ames told scientists at the national meeting of the American 
Chemical  Society  that  he  has  
succeeded  in  refining  a  test  he  
developed  earlier  so  that  tiny  

amounts of urine, and possibly other body fluids, may be used in cancer tests to identify mutagens, which are generally cancer-causing agents. 
Previously, the Ames test re­quired totally pure samples of the chemical to be tested, a much more cumbersome and time-consuming method. 
Ames said his method should be used to examine the urine of a large population of non-smokers to de­tect unsuspected mutagens and carcinogens that may be entering people. 
~EXCHANGE 
~ DROP 
BOOKS SOLD 

PICK MONEY UP 
6-1 o pm Tues, Sept 6
12-5 pm Fri, Sept 2

0 ~~~m0~~.~~~~ 
Sat, Sept. 3 Wed, Sept 7 

~ Thurs. Sept 1 
Sun, Sept 4 
• 

~ IN THE GRADUATE STUDENTt--' UNION LAFORTUNE ~ 
r:ilFOR SR. MARIETTA'S"\)~ 
Student Union 
REFRIGERATOR RENTALS 
Saturday Sept. 3 10am-4pm Keenan Hall Basement 
available to Saint Mary's campus also 

Carter was"more than a little the Stat~ of .the ,Union address affected," by the ghetto looting in Carter will ?eltver. tn J~uary. New York City during last month's The President ts bemg pushed blackout, accordin~ to one source. h.a~d for a strong program to a~d the 
de directed Chief domestic advi-ctti~s by ~oderate black lec~ders sor Stuart Eizenstat to take a sue as ernon Jor~an. of the personal hand in the work of a Urban League and Benjamtn Hooks Cabinet-level task force known as ~F~~~~AA~Ptb ~ lucs!:y: the "the urban and regional develop--an . e ·. · 0 erence ment ~oup." The group is of Mayors weighed tn to SUJpport developmg the cities policv. th~b~ck ~aders. . . 
Patricia Harris secreta-of a er an creatin~ broad SOCial 
Housing and Urban Deverylopment programhs,wil~olurtrces sathtd the Carter 
• approac s ess e govern
h~ads the task force. She and ment's role in spurring pri;ate
1zenstat planned to meet tod . d .
E

with leader f th N ti I Le ay e~~nomtc evelopment m trou~led of C'ti s 0 •e a ona ague ctties, probably through a combma­1 es to dJscuss the urban tion of tax incentives and invest-strategy. ment aid. A HUD official said ~he sn;ate~y Treasury Department officials may be completed for mclus10n m are expected to propose a domestic 
First oil shipment moves through Canal 
BALBOA• Canal Zone [AP] ·The first shipment of North Slope crude oil from Alaska moved through the Panama Canal yesterday bound for refineries on the Gulf Coast. 
The canal's chief planner, High Norris, predicted pipelines will eventually do the job faster and cheaper. 
Wednesday's 876,000-barrel shipment should reach the refiner­ies about five days after clearing the canal, canal officals said. 
Other shipments will follow to refineries in Houston, Texas; Baton Rouge, La.; and other Gulf ports in ships with capacities ranging from 
231.000 to 385,000 barrels. The canal will be used to ship 
crude "only until alternative routes are found,'' according to Norris. 
''This is an interim arrangement, alternatives will develop, and a pipeline from Alaska to the Mid­west would probably be more economical than shipping through the canal," said Norris. 

He said the oil companies will pay 12 to 15 cents a 'Jarrel, about $15 millions a year, in .:anal transit tolls. That would be an increase of 11 per cent in the $135 million in tolls collected by the canal com­pany in 1976. 
Norris said studies are being made of an existing natural gas line from Long Beach, Calif., to Mid­land, Texas, which he said could be converted to carry the North Slope crude. 
The oil going through the canal is owned by Standard Oil Co. of Ohio, which controls half the North Slope oil, Norris said. He said oil going through the canal is "leftover" crude that could not be handled by West Coast refineries. 
The oil is shipped,from Valdex, Alaska, in tankers too large to go through the canal, put aboard storage tankers at the Pacific end of the waterway, then pumped into smaller tankers for the 51-mile trip through the canal to the Gulf of Mexico and refineries. 
~ ~ ~ 


~ 
~ = ~ < 
~ 
development bank that would pro­vide low-interest loans to compan­ies doing business in the struggling 
citie~. 

Carter has said he would consider such a porposa1 that "averages': th~ government's re­sources, usmg lt as front money to a~act heavy investment by the 
pnvate sector.

Con~e~s is considering Carter's $4~ milhon proposal for ''urban action grants" that would provide HUD money to fund economic 
de I t · h d h' · ·

A~~p~~m:.cearSe~tpt cltiJes. 'ta 
e ary unl 
Krepa has indicated she will lobby 

lHAT WATERBED PLACE Get More Rest with 
Less Sleep on a 
You've got enough hassles without having to put up with n uncomfortabl~ mattress. And you probably get less sleep han you would like _to on occasion. So it makes sense to get most rest pos~1ble from your sleeping hours. And a dern waterbed 1s the place to get it. Stop by "THAT" ATERBED PLACE" and don't forget to ask us about our 
'Back to School Specials" thru September 9. 
OPEN Tues-Thurs 12-SpmFriday 12-9pm Saturday 9-6pm 
277-1914 
Carter to triple the $320-million Economic Develo ment Admini­stration budget ~he says uch f the increase i~ the rural-:nent:d agancy's budget would aid the economies of troubled cities. 
The domestic bank would be the most far-reaching means of boost­
ing investment in troubled bi cities. Sources would not say ho! much money the bank would cost the federal treasury but indicated that if Carter proposes the bank it 
likely wo~ld include money for 
rural proJects as well as urban 
ones. 


Vest 11 .•. Dacron/Cotton In blue or tan. (ripstop nylon Inner) 
Snaps and down filled flap 
Cargo pockets with snapped closure 



NOTRE DAME SAINT MARY'S THEATRE 
---· 
ANNOUNCES TRYOUTS FOR 
THE COMEDY OF ERRORS 
by William Shakespeare 
Wed., Aug. 31 -7 pm O'Laughlin 
Callbacks, Sept. 1 -7 pm 
Audition infonnation available in Speech and drama oHim Rm. 11 0, Moreau Hall, Saint Mary's 

Co111e On Out and Let the Good Ti111es Roll! 
*The Best in live Music *Dance Party Every Monday • •• • Niuht!
• • • • -e 
< ~;; • • 0ozE e00• ·.. 
• ~ • • • •• Q • 
•.!;;:}~.~···.~·.• •
• , 
·<· ~ ·~· 
American League  
East  
w  
NYork  8o  
Balt  75  
Boston  75  
Detroit  63  
Cleve  62  
Milwkee  57  
Toronto  45  
West  
K.C.  76  
Chicago  73  
Minn  75  
Texas  73  
Calif  61  
Oakland  52  
Seattle  52  

Wednesday's Results 

Baltimore 4, California 3 Cleveland 4, Boston 3 
New York 5, Seattle 4 Detroit 5, Milwaukee2 Kansas City 5, Texas 4 Oakland 4, Minnesota 3 
Thursday, September 1, 1977 the observer 7_ 
Baseball At A Glance By The Associated Press 
L  Pet.  GB  
52  .606  
55  .577  4  
55  .577  4  
67  .485  16  
70  .470  18  
80  .416  2SYz  
84  .  . 349  33Yz  
-!  
54  .585  
sn  .566  2Yz  
59  .560  3  
58  .557  3Yz  
68  .473  14Yz  
78  .400  24  
93  .385  26Yz  

Only games scheduled 
Thursday's Games Cleveland Eckersley 13-10 at Boston Lee 5-3 Detroit Arroyo 7-13 at Milwaukee Augustine ·11-15, 
Oakland Blue 13-15, at Minnesoat Goltz 16-9, n Only games scheduled 
Friday's Games 
Seattle at Toronto California at Cleveland ­Oakland at Detroit Boston at Texan Milwaukee at Kansas City New York at Minnesota · BaWmore at Chicago 
Photographers Needed for Observer Staff 
IVOR\.0 

8 
Darkroom Experience Required
Pabst $549 
Call leo Hansen 287-7051 or Obsetver.
case 
Old 

Photography Thus. Night Spm
Busch $549 
case Chicago 
Meeting at Cherver Office
$149

Strohs $549 
case 
NOTICES
6 packs 

Typing. Reasonable rates. Call 8051
Falstaff S269 Sewing repairs. Reasonable. Call 8051.12 pack (bottles) FOR RENT
s269 
Country house for rent located 10 ·to
Blatz 
12 minutes from Notre Dame. Ideal for 1, 2, or 3 people. Call 277-3604.
12 pack (bottles) 
WANTED 

Needed: M uslcians: interested in
Old Milwaukee s269 
12 pack (bottles) 
Strohs 16oz case 
saa7 

Miscellaneous Cases of Beer 
sass 

Rum$498 
qt 

ScotchS539 
qt 

Vodka$399 
qt 
Gin $399 
qt 

being part of group to play for liturgies in hallslf4iacred Heart. Call 6536 or 8832 between 9:00a.m. and 5 p.m. 
HELP WANTED DOC. PIERCE'S SALOON in hiring full or part-time Bartenders, Coctail waitresses and Food Servers. Must be 21. Apply in person Sept. 6-8 from 3 to 6 p.m. 120 N. Main St., Mishawaka. 
wanted: Two Pitt tickets. Call Bob 8330. 
HelpS 1need 3 roommates to live in an apartment at the Notre Dame 
Avenue  apartments.  $280.00  a  
month.  If  Interested,  please  call  
283-1715 and ask for Drew.  

FEMALE EXERCISE INSTRUCTOR WANTED. 3:00 ·8:00p.m. Exper­ience in exercise, physical educa­tion, or dance preferred. Apply in person. New Profile Figure Salons, Inc. US 31 and Auten Road, South Bend. 
Need Ga and Student football tlx to
2128 South Bend Ave. 
any home game. Call 8051. 
FOR SALE 

HEATH AR-15 receiver, 50 watts channel, walnut cabinet. Call 234­1596 on weekends or after 5:30p.m. Best offer. 
19" black and white TV. Not quite one year old. $75. 288-2688. 
PANDORA'S HAS THE FOLLOW­ING USED BOOKS AVAILABLE: AM ST: 352, 381, 473, 476, 482 
ART-324 COLSEM ENG-109, 113, 180, 185, 321, 322, 328, 333, 385, 386, 390, 392A, 399, 404A, 432, 461, 486, 496, 585, 593, 654A 
GEN PROG -191-181,245,281,381, 481 
GOVT • 280, 343, 407, 420, 421, 641 HIST · 109,111. 180,301,305,337, 3448; 345F, 411, 459, 477, 479, 520-526, 653 
MOD L · 180, 190, 430, 433, 441 
PHIL, 101,180,201,241,245,275, 277, 278, 301, 329, 351, 429 PSYCH· 180 SPEECH DRAMA · 135, 180, 392 THEO · 200, 247, 255, 336, 353, 364, 
373, 421, 425, 441, 454, 555 SOC· 114, 346, 369, 371, 503N 937 SOUTH BEND AVE• 
Classified Ads 
taken 9-5 daily 3nl floor LaFortune 
PERSONAU 

Deebles & Armando: You off-campus guys are hot stuff. 
Just don't forget  your on-campus  
friends.  
GuessWh9  
Special  thanks  to  ALL the  people  

who volunteered their services as typists for the Obnrver & also those who have chosen to do it again I 
Earth to Hanklll What's new? G 
Yes Keenan Hall, that is your own HENRY LAFORET! 
VICKI ANDERSON: All tbat glitters is not gold All that sparkles is not diamond. 
From your single--(and planning to remain soC--roommate, Katie 
Tony, 
Hello, how are ya? How was your summer? And since you won't recognize this 
blatant non-abuse, I'll sign· my name, Gwen 
JJ, Let's play tennisII G· 
----.:......---~-----­
. . .. ...... .. .. . . ". .. .........•.• .. •. ·.•.•.•.·.·.. ·.•.•..·..•.·.·.·..~.·.•.• ..·.·.·.·.·.: 

~-------------------------------------------------~ ---~------­
8 the observer Thursday, September 1, 1977 
---------·---'-'--~'--------~~~-..:.-=-.:..::.:.=...:.~~.:..:_:_ 
Coach Johnson solidifiesdefense 

J. 

Women organize fall sports 
I ­
*Observer 
sports 
Tom Desmond 
Freshman? six-pointers 
:;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:;:::::::::::::::::::;:::::::::;:::::::::::::::::::::;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 
Anyone who has read the sports page in recent weeks is aware that Ross 
B.ro~.ner is a hi~hl~ regarded candidate for the Reisman Trophy. 
Stmlltarly, the natton s sports fans and writers are cognizant of the fact 
that Notre Dame has 19 starters back and will contend for the National 
Championship. Ross Browner's "candidacy" and the team's experience 
have indeed mongpolized the pre-season articles about the Irish. 
Yet, those close to the team are often asked about another facet of the 
team and how it is shaping up. "What about the freshmen?" is a question 
that ts often asked of the coaches, players and managers. 
Coach Devine and his staff have 27 members of the Class of 1981 on the 
roster for the 1977 season. Each member of this group of 14 backs and 13 
linemen was a standout performer on the scholastic gridiron and year ago 
and joined the Irish squad this fall with a long list of credentials. Here are 
some of the accomplishments of this group of multi-talented newcomers. 
Seven were mentioned on Ali-Amercan squads while 25 received all-state mention in some form or another because of their football prowess. All of this year's freshman crop earned letters in a second sport during their scholastic careers, indicating that this is one conglomeration of talented athletes. Even further, 10 were awarded all; state honors in a second sport. 
One has to wonder if Coach Devine and Phelps didn't compare their 
lists of prospects last year. There are six all-state basketball players of a 
year ago amon~ the freshmen performing on the gridiron. 
Over half of the first-year gridders captained their football teams while 
a similar number handled the captain's duties in a second sport. There is 
a touch of the winning edge sprinkled throughout the footballers of the 
Class of '81 as six were members of state football champion teams. 
So, how are the freshmendoing? Quite well it would seem when one considers the ability and experience of the upperclassmen on the team. The depth chart shows no "rookies" on the first of second teams but there are six freshmen holding down third unit positions. ' 
In any event these newcomers do play a vital role in the prepping of the first and second teamers for the upcoming battles. With such a strong ~roup of multi-tal~~ted perfor:mers the freshmen help keep the level of mtrasquad competttion at a pomt where the entire team can hone itself to its peak performance level. The superstars of the future come from the pre~ team and develop with age. The Class of '81 should be no exception and tt seems that Coach Devine and his staff have everything as far as the sportswriters who follow Notre Dame are concerned. 
Somewere in America there has to be a schoolby wide'! receiver named Jack Betsy who could play for Notre Dame. That would bring the dream of the press one step closer. Here's the scene: The Irish need a touchdown to win and Coach Devine signals for the fullback-option pass. Rusty Lisch takes the snap and pitches the ball to Jerome Heavens who circles the end and loft a long bomb down the field. Jack Betsy runs under it and sprints into the end zone. A writer's dream is fulfilled ...Heavens to Betsy--The Irish win. 
doesn't make any mistakes." 
Jim Browner: " ...could be one of the better strong safeties a­round...he's a very physical-type person. He's only been playing defense for a year, but he is improving each day." 
Randy Harrison and Joe Restic: "As to who is going to start against Pittsburgh, I think it's a back and forth situation. A week ago, Randy Harrison was the starting :safety. Today, Restic is the starting safety. 
By the end of the week, it might switch again. They are so even, the man who has the best scrimmage is moving up or down." 
"We plan to use both of them quite a bit in our ballgames. Obviously, only one can start, but the other will see an awful lot of action ... " 
Depth: Ross Christenson, who will back up Jim Browner is a very capable ballplayer. Tom Flynn is one of the toughest hitters in the secondary and Jim Morse streng­thens the other side. 
At Indiana, Johnson coached the linemen so he had to make a transition when he joined the Notre Dame staff--a transition he seems to have made well. 
''The most prominent thing you notice when going from the coach­
ing of linebackers to the defens­ive secondary is that you can't afford to make mistakes in the secondary. It's the last line of defense and if you make a mistake back there it's six points, whereas if a linebacker makes a mistake, it may only mean a five or six year gain." · 
Johnsonalso found his new posi­tion as one of more responsibility, as he is working with four defens­ive backs rather than onty two outside linebackers. 
In the highly sophisticated world of college football, Johnson sum­marized his coaching philosophy in terms of soundness and overall knowledge of each aspect of the game. 
"I'm talking about all phases of the game--stopping the option, stopping the pass. Your players cannot just go out there and play football," emphasized Johnson. "You are facing some of the best coaching staffs in the country. More and more I've tried to become more sound in considering every phase of the game and not taking so many chances." 
With seven years of coaching experience, and a nucleus of play­ers, perhaps unmatched anywhere in college football, Jim Johnson and the Irish defensive secondary unit should be more than" sound" 
NBA b-ball game scheduled 
On Friday, Sept., 30, the Notre Dame Athletic and Convocation Center will present an exhibition basketball game between the Cleveland Cavaliers and the Buf­falo Braves. 
The game will feature former Notre Dame stars Austin Carr, Gary Brokaw, John Shumate and Adrian Dantley. 
Ticket prices are listed 1at toar. five and six dollars and :ma, be obtained at the A.C.C. 1'icbt Office Monday through Saturday between 9:00 a.m. and S:OO p.m. beginning Sept. S. Students from Notre Dame and Saint Mau)'' s will receive a special redtfction of one dollar off any ticket which they purchase. 
Irish hoopsters play softball 
The public is invited to see the newest additions of the 1977-78 basketball team join forces with their coaches against the re1urning players from last year's 22··7 Irish squad in a softball game on Sunday, September 4. Jake Kline 
· Field will be the site of the~ battle which is slated to begin at 2 p.m. 
.... 
by Laurie Reising Women's Sports Editor 

Organizational meetings were held Tuesday for the Notre Dame women's tennis, field hockey and volleyball teams. 
Coaching the field hockey team for the fourth year will be Astrid Hotvedt, co-ordinator of women's sports for Notre Dame. Practices will run daily from 4 p.m. to 6 p.m. located on the field behind the baseball diamond. In that field hockey is still a club sport, there will be no tryouts. The only prerequisite is a desire to play and a committment to stick with it. 
The new women's tennis coach, Sharon Petro, was introduced at Tuesday's' meeting. Ms. Petro hails from Southgate, Michigan where she coached at Aquinas High School. She is a graduate of Wayne State University where she participated in basketball, fencing and tennis. 
Petro brings with her nine years of experience in various sports, mainly track and field and basket­ball. Also, while at Aquinas she served as chairman of the joint men's and women's athletic com­mittee. In addition to her vast experience, Petro brings a fresh approach with her to the Notre Dame women's tennis program. 
She stresses the need for both "physical and mental conditioning, for the mind plays an important part in one's game." "My ' ·~. 
...
\ 
,,.,..' 
philosophy is to play for fun, but it's fun to win ... you must work hard to do well, but when the game loses its fun part, then something is seriously wrong," Petro said. 
Tennis, a varsity sport for the second vear. does entail tryouts which began Wednesday on the courts behind the ACC. They will consist of a tournament with nine game pro-sets. Coach Petro said at the meeting that the number of spots has not definitely been set but tentatively ten to twelve girls will be chosen. 
Women's club sports has a new addition this year in the form of volleyball. Last year, a loosely organized volleyball squad did exist, and enough of an interest was expressed to elevate it to club status. Coaching the team will be Jory Segal, also new to the Notre Dame women's program. Segal, who received her undergrad degree from the University of illinois, comes to the Notre Dame campus via nearby Naperville, IL where she coached both badminton and swimming for one year at the local high school. In addition to her work there she has also taught at a private tennis club. She will be assisted by Astrid Hotvedt, who expressed the goal of the team this season to ''go to the state tourna­ment in November." 
Practices will run Monday through Thursday from 7 p.m. to 8:30p.m. in the weight room of the Rockne Memorial. Anyone inter­ested is encouraged to come out. 
by Gregory Solman Sports Writer 

Seven weeks ago, Jim Johnson entered into the hallowed traditions of Notre Dame football as the new coach of the defensive secondary. His reaction? 
"As an assistant coach," he commented, "I don't think there's any other place in the country I'd rather be." 
Johnson replaces Paul Shoults who's been reunited with Alex Agase as the Associate athletic director at Eastern Michigan. As the leader, of the defensive sec­ondary, Johnson's expertise will largely determine the success of the Irish defense. A cursory glance at the roster of Irish defensive linemen and linebackers quickly suggests that Irish opponents will undoubtedly be forced to an aerial attack this fall versus Notre Dame's totally imposing defensive squad. 
"I think that you're going to find." prophesises Johnson," es­pecially in the opening game against Pittsburgh, that they are really going to test our passing defense mote than anything. I think that we'll see a lot of option-type plays and passes used against us." 
With this in mind, he is gearing his unit toward pass defense, a task that's not unfamiliar to Johnson, who enters his eighth year of college coaching. 
Johnson was most recently the defensive coordinatonnd lineback­er coach at Inruima U niversitv. 
where he worked under Lee Corso 
for four years. Johnson perceives 

that the differences between Corso 
and his new Head Coach Dan 
Devine, are mainly in personality. 

"Corso is a more flamboyant type of person," Johnson com­mented: "Coach Devine, whom I played under and have a great deal of respect for, is more a conserva­tive type individual. He has complete control of the program, and they both have the same type of coaching philosophy --they are both very sound football coaches. The only differences I can see is in their types of personalities." 
As a quarterback and safety at the University of Missouri under Dan Devine, Johnson enjoyed an outstanding career, losing only three games in three seasons that included two bowl bids. Johnson moved from there to the Buffalo bills, where he played tight end until a knee injury ended his playing career in his second year. 
Though Johnson sees kinks in his unit that he feels must be ironed out before the Pittsburgh game, he has great confidence in his array of fine players. 
The coach's eye-view of his play­ers follows: 
-Luther Bradley: "A preseason all-American ... he's as good a corn­erback as I've ever been involved with. He has the quickness and the size to become the best around. There's no doubt about it." 
Ted Burg meier: " ...one of the better athletes on the squad...he doesn't have the great size, but he's a tremendous athlete• and he 









