
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's
Vol. XI, No. 115 Wednesday, April 20, 1977 

'Riot' causes sleep-out cancellation 
by Barb Langhenry 

said. most of the incident, stated no one dent, which in their view, cannot be ' claim she was picked up by
Copy Editor 

Roemer paralleled the incident to knows exactly what happened. attributed to any one person or 
someone and didn't particularity
the LaFortune riot which occurred
The An Tostal sleep-out planned Thomas Lenz, one of the RA's, factor. want to be." He said security put for Friday night has been cancelled last fall. He said he had warning stated that since 11 p.m. there ws Richard Thomas, another RA, her complaint on file and he 
by James Roemer, dean of stu­signals from the first Black Cultural shouting and ''people were looking stated that the annoying thing was persons involved have been turned dents, because of an incident which Arts Center dance and shouldn't for an excuse for something to do." that the people in the infirmary over to the dean of students. occurred in the area between have allowed the second one to go "A lot of groups of kids were were disturbed. He also comment­Colleen French, the girl who Keenan and Zahm halls Monday ahead. He stated he received waking around throwing fireworks ed that security was standing filed the complaint, stressed that night. numerous responses to that inci­and there were girls in bathing around watching the incident with­she was not hurt at all, but was Roemer stated there was a dent and is still stunned by it. suits and bathrobes and this at­out any attempt to break it up. "really scared." She stated she "riot" on campus in which 200 He, therefore, is taking this tracted more attention,'' he rea­Fr. Thomas Tallarida, rector of was walking by and people started people gathered and "stoned a incident as a warning. Roemer soned. Zahm, stated there was a lot of chasing her saying they were going security car and assaulted a Lewis pointed out that he alone gave The RA' s related that students shouting and the stage was set. He to put her in the lake. She was then girl.'' Roemer said he was permission for the sleep-out and started to gather outside and there also noted there was a lot of picked up, but did not end up in the contacted by security at 1 a.m. and feels responsible. He said he had were about 200 students, mainly enticement because "some beauti­lake. She managed to get free and was on campus by 1:15 a.m. He questions about it, resolved it in from Zahm, St. Ed's, Keenan and ful girls from Lewis came over in reported it to security because she added that a lot of things the student's favor, but now the Stanford Halls, outside yelling and night gowns.'' was frightened. happened which alarmed him. students have decided the question throwing M-80's, bottle rockets He emphasized it was his role to 
"The guys weren't trying to be
Roemer attributed the riot to the for him. and firecrackers. make sure it didn't get out of 
vicious,but I didn't like it one bit. I
weather, saying it was a hot Roemer met with Student Body Lenz also noted, however, that bounds with the groups. He summer night. People probably President Dave Bender, An Tostal 99 percent of the people were ad<Jed that security could not thought it was dangerous for the 
guys to be out there," she said.
started yelling out windows, and a Chairman Keefe Montegomery and standing around watching, while a do anything because there were too 
spontaneous gathering occurred two other An Tostal people yester­small group of people were really many people. Tallarida said the incident had outside, he continued. day to explain his reasons . for involved in it. Director of Security Arthur Pears died down by 2 a.m., while the ''As a result of these new riot cancelling the sleep-out. He then The RA' s said they went around stated two cars were sent and both RA' s noted it was over between 1 announced it at the Student Life
conditions which occurred at and told Keenan residents indivi­cars had missiles shot at them. He a.m. and 1:30 a.m. Keenan-Stanford, the stoning of a Council meeting. dually to return to the dorm, which added that they were not damages, security car and assault of a girl --I Two resident assistants from they did. They stated their hall was but had many scratches on them. 
have decided to cancel the sleep­Keenan Hall, who were outside for not primarily involved in the inci-He also said, "A girl came to out by Stepan Center," Roemer asserted. He added he is fright­Sit-in tomorrow ened by the collection of a crowed of people behind Stepan on a warm 
summer night. 
Black students to protest racism
He said, in addition, that people 
might try to throw students in the by Barbara Breitenstein cated that the yearbook failed to lake and he sees this as dangerous. 
Executive News Editor 
Noting that the lake is deep by the 
. and 

·pier and with a few beers in them, 
Pat Cole 

students who aren't very good 
Special Projects Editor 
swimmers might be in danger if thrown in the lake, Roemer pointed 
out. To show "concern for the injust­
It is a "real, real serious thing 
ices and incon­
when a security car gets stoned-­
veniences levied upou (the black 
that takes place in a riot situation,'' 
students at Notre Dame)," mem­
he claimed, adding, "It is also 
bers of the Black Cultural Arts 
serious when a girl gets assualted. 
Center BCAC) will demonstrate in 
I look at all those factors and the 
front of the Administration build­
chemistry and I don't think we 
ing tomorrow and will present a 
ought to encourage 500 to 600 
packet of letters explaining their 
people to gather together,'' he 
grievances to University President Fr. Theodore Hesburgh and other administrators.
Car burns 

The demonstration, in the form of a sit-in on the steps of thein SMC lot Administration building, will take The Black Cultural Arts Center will demonstrate tomorrow to protest 't~ey were also.~e.nied an adequate by Jean Powley place from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. 'racist' attitudes on campus [photo by janet Carney] plano, and facilttle~ for. the choir's 
tomorrow. Demonstrators will also first concert were gtven Inadequate 
St. Mary's Edik.r 

be distributing leaflets stating their accomodations in the Library Audi­A white Porsche belonging to a complaints. The letter also demands that behind in its Affirmative Action torium. In addition, a petition protesting Hesburgh meet with members of efforts by a SO-percent margin in On one occasion, the Gospel
St. Mary's student who wishes to 
"subtleinnuenodos of separatist the black community within ten staff members and quotas. Choir had reserved a room in
remain anonymous caught fire and 
tactics employed by certain de­days in an open forum to air their The letters of complaint list Crowley Hall for practice, but it
burned in St. Mary's LeMans 
parking lor yesterday at 4:30 p.m. partments and/or sections of the concerns, and that Hesburgh might examples of the problems here at was occupied when they arrived, The driver was not injured, University against minorities, with "learn first-hand our concerns." Notre Dame believed to be caused according to the letter addressed to emphasis in this case on the black Five other letters to Hesburgh by the charged under-representa-Prof. William Cerney, chairman of
although she reportedly went into 
shock. minority,'' will be circulated by and other officials are contained in tion and weak Affirmative Action the music department. the BCAC today. Signatures will the packet which will be given to efforts. The BCAC letter revealed that
According to eyewitnesses, the 
car backfired as it turned down one "indicate total support of the cases Hesburgh today. These letters A letter will be sent to Edmund Cerny told Prof. Jerome Thornton, being presented to the administra­describe "a number of events we T. Price, director of Food Services, 'director of the choir, in a telephone
of the middle aisles. Aames then 
shot out from beneath the vehicle. tion." feel are discriminitory. '• The in­protesting the manner in which converation, that the choir was a The driver reportedly jumped out cidents relate to the Campaign for minority students were worked distraction, as well as disturbance, letter to Hesburgh Notre Dame dinner, the yearbook,
of the car when warned by a during the Campaign for Notre ..·. . .. ·...·· . < Jcontlnuedoll pg· 4)
the Gospel Choir, this year's
witness that her car was on fire. 
The rough draft of a cover-letter cheerleading tryouts, and the
The Porsche then became engulfed 

~~~~?a£~~~~~~[~o~~~ ''8~~~ ~T'l/{~,r~~~~;~,'i'!Jfl'
accompanying the letter-packet to BCAC picnic. 
in flames. 
Hesburgh, and signed in the name
Notre Dame Fire Department black and minority meal servers . todliX~$. e.vents 
of the students who are distributing letters of complaint
responded to the call and according 
petitions, explains the reasons for
to Brother Borromeo, fire chief, 
::r~~~:.~~~!:t~~~~ ~':e ~~~~ '~# :r<)stat~'~k offI(Jd"Y With 
· their complaints." ''We perceive an Pointing out that, according to
"The car was fully ablaze when we 
attitude that cannot be described as Du Lac, the student manual, the A student coordinator said that Happ)t Hours ~t Fat Wallyt~;
arrived," but it posed no danger to .·Corby's and Bridget McGuire's fo
anything but 'racist,' " the letter University will not tolerate discri­
other cars. table assignments for table servers celebrate Wicked Wednesday.. · · 
mination in any way, members of
The blaze was extinguished in states. "The relationship between were made "at random." How-A $3 ticket entitles the holder to 
the black community and Univer­the BCAC drafted five letters of
about 20 minutes to reveal a ever, the concerned black students · aU the beerhe or she can drink and 
complaint.

"totalled" car, Borromeo said. sity officials is such that we suspect maintain that this act was an balf.prke mixed drinks at Fat 
racist attitudes." The primary concerns of the
None of its white paint remained, 
except on and around the trunk. The protesters stress that they students, listed on a prepared ~~~~e~ ;~~ ~ft~~t~~~~~~ti~: a:o~~ Wally'"$from2to5p.m. The same 
ticket will be good for tw~for•one 
are attempting to make officials information sheet, charge the ad­offending potential donors to the bee · · ·· · · · ·
· The rear :minois license plates 
aware of their feelings and con­ministration with under-represent­campaign's fund raising drive. . · .· r and drinks at Bridget Me~
were intact. The rest of the car was Guire'sorCorby~sfmm 6 to9 p.m.
cern. ation of blacks in the student body.
completely charred with all four The students also attacked this The ticket . also provides coupons
''There can never be documen­The complaint said that although
tires partially melted. year's edition of the yearbook, the for other events. including a free
tary evidence to prove racism,'' the the student body has a total
The car was towed to a nearby Dome, charging that it is not of ticket to the Irish Wake Saturday
letter continues, but the purpose of enrollment of over 7,000 students,
service · station shortly before 6 service to the black community at night and . a free helicopter ride
the letters are to ''attempt to make the "Black enrollment is less than
p.m. Notre Dame. This letter, directe_ between ll~lS a.m. and 1:15 p.m.
(their grievances) known to all 2.5 percent."
St. Mary's Security Director to Greg Young, next year's editor-today at Stepan Field. The tickets
parties capable of helping us The second complaint
Anthony Kovatch was unavailable charged in-chief of the Dome, and to Lisa can be bought at the door at Fat
allieviate them." that the University is
for comment. lagging Moore. 1977 ~ditor-in-chief, indi-Wally's this afternoon. 
Security snags cited 



Graduation to remain at AC~C­
"the observer Wednesday·, April-lO)'t-1917 
News Briefs____....... 
Cl.DCAGO [AP]-Acting Mayor Micn-ael A. Bilandic, the candidate for the late Mayor Richard J. Daley's regular Democratic o~ganiza!ion: easily defeated five primary challengers last night to wm no~matto.n to the two unexpired years of Daley's sixth term. 
In a ctty whtch has not seen a Republican mayor since 1931, the Democratic primacy winner is expected to easily capture the special mayoral election in June. 
Wi.th 1.!76 of 3,085 precincts reported there were 214,625 votes for Bllandtc and 138,479 for his nearest rival, Alderman Roman C. Pucinski, a former Congressman. 
On Campus Today_........_. 
8 am -S pm workshop, "novel concepts, methods and advanced technology in particulate-gas separation," sponsored by nat'l science foundation, environment protection 
agency, cce 

12:15 pm seminar, "circulating structure and aviation of 
plasminogen" by dr. francis j. castellano, dept. of -chem., nd, sponsored by dept. of microbiology, rm. 278, galvin life science 
4:30pm reilly lectures, "chemical reactivity of active sites in iron-sulfur proteins and enzymes: core extrusion reactions -a new means of active site identification" by prof. richard h. holm, dept. uf chemistry, stanford 
univ., sponsored nieuwland science  by  dept.  of  chem.,  rm.  123,  
S:1S pm  mass, for all world hunger coalition tasters, chapel, everyone welcome  walsh  
6:30pm  student government forum, Iafortune ballroom  

6:30pm workshop, anxiety management workshop, sponsorec by smc counseling center, clubhouse 
6:45pm meeting, alanon fellowship for family and friends of those with a drinking problem, rm. 400, mem. library 
7, 9, 11 pm movie, "take the money and run" with woody allen, sponsored by joint end. council, eng. aud., $1 
8 pm lecture, "the evolution of christian social doctrine from leo xiii to paul iv" by czeslaw strzeszewski, prof. emeritus of christian sociology & philosophy, v.p. of polish nat'l comm. on justice & peace, sponsored by institute for internat'l studies, area studies reading rm 1201 mem. library ' 

8 pm perspective series, "themes in american philosophy" by wilfrid sellers, sponsored by dept. of philosophybiology aud. ' 

8:15pm ward phillips lectures, "rabbi pinhas of koretz, or hasidic wisdom" by elie wiesel, author and mellon prof. in humanities, boston univ., sponsored by engl. dept., washington hall 
9pm recital, woodwind ensemble, sponsored by music dept., library aud. & lounge 
9-11 pm nazz, "open stage nite" just sign in at 9:00 p.m. basement of Iafortune. 

Tonight Open Stage Night I (if you want to play just sign in before 9 pm-get there early) Thursday 
No Nazz (.Mr. Campus) 
Friday 8 pm Play it Again Sam 
10:30 pm leo Hansen and Friends 
Saturday 

8 pm Play it Again Sam 
Subs, soft drinks, coffee available Watch for Nazz benefit concerts
-=·· ....-....... _ ..........11. ...........
.._ 


by Kathleen Connelly 
Father Theodore Hesburgh turned down a proposal last Wed­nesday to change the location of this year's graduation ceremonies from the A.C.C. to the stadium. 
The proposal was submitted by Marty White on April 4, with a request that it be given the i "consideration due the issue." In · addition to a petition containing I 850 signatures, were two letters 
from Senior Class President Rob Tully and from White. In his letter White proposed a I seating arrangement for the sta· 
1 

dium and gave his reasons for 1 requesting the change. According 
1

to White,the ACC will accomodate 12,000 people, while the Stadium 1 , with folding chairs on the field I would accomodate 22,000. 1 
The petition is the result of dissatisfaction with limited seating due to the appearence of President 
1 

Jimmy Carter. I 
The planning for graduation is handled by the Administration's Graduation Committee. At one 
meeting, eight student representa-, tives were informed of plans for using the ACC and of consequent ticket limitations , but they offered no objections. 
However, White said,"When this was going on, I didn't know -­the students didn't know. It's too bad." 
In a meeting with White, Hes-. burgh gave his reasons for turning down the proposal. 
First, there would be many technical difficulties for the Secret Service if they were asked to prepare security plans for both the ACC and the stadium in case of rain. 
Also, if poor weather necessitat­ed moving the ceremonies indoors. the ACC could not be expected to 
hold the stadium audience. Hesburgh also expressed his 
*The Observer 
Night Editor: Joe Bauer Asst. Night Editor: Katie Ker­win Editorial layout: Drew Bauer Features layout: David O'Keefe Sports Layout: Paul Stevenson Typists: Marianne Corr, Mary Corbett, Sue Shellenbarger, Leigh T unakan E.M.T.: Martha Fanning ASST. E.M.T.: Don roos Day Editor: Kate Flynn Copy Reader: Chris Datzman Ad layout: Tom Walrath Photographer: Janet Carney Guest Star: Barbara A. Lang­henry 
The Observer is published Monday through Friday and weekly during the summer session, except during the eKam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by students of the University of Notre Dame and St Mary's College Subscriptions may be purchased for $20 per year ($10 per semester) from The Obser­ver, BoK Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproductron nghts are reserved. 
concern that to ho1d graduation ceremonies in the stadium would only serye to reinforce the football image of Notre Dame and take away from the academic signifi­cance of the University. 
Graduation has not been held in the stadium since 1959. Since that time, the ceremonies have been either in the field house or on the South Quad in front of Father 
The Knights Men's Hairstyling 
Treat yourself the month of April with a styled haircut and blowstyle combination, and receive a free condition! It will give you bock that natwal sheen that the winter months have deprived you of. This is a $13.00 value for $8.50. 
MiaaJeanie 

~~~uttn'~ €a~tlt 
• \ 54533 TERRACE LANE 
I 

Tues., Wed., Sat. 8:30 -5:30 Thurs. & Fri. 8:30 • 8:30 
Z77-J69J 



From April 1 through June 14, you can fly roundtrip from New York to Luxembourg for only $410. 
That's $89less than the youth fare you'd pay on any other scheduled airline. (From Chicago you pay $458 thru April 30 and $430 from May 1 thru june 14.) All you have to do is be under the age of 26. 
There are no booking restrictions. We give you the same service you'd get from other airlines, without the same high costs. So, if you're not flying Icelandic to Europe, you're spehdingmore than you haveto. We'II give you the best deal on fares and on our New Horizon Escorted Tours, too. 
Savess9onjetfares to Europe and book anytimeyouwant. 
r-----------------~---,
Icelandic AirlineS, Dept. #CNI P.O. Box 105, \\e~t Hempstead, N. Y 11552 II See your travel agent. Or call toll free: (800) 555-1212. I 1 Please send information on Icelandic's low-rust fares and New 1I Horizon Escorted Tours of Europe. I 
I Name I I I ~~-I I~ ~ I 
Lowest Jet fares to Europe of any scheduled airline. 
! 

Sorin's statue. Since 1969, ceremo­nies have taken place in the _ACC. In that year, tickets were issued because planners were not sure what to expect. No tickets have been issued since then. 
"It is too bad Father Hesburgh never gave the graduates a choice as to Carter or their families. It's too bad, but it's too late," White said. 


LAW SCHOOL INTERVIEWS 
Counselors are' available daily at the UNIVERSITY OF SAN FERNANDO VALLEY 
COIJEGE OF LAW 
to offer guidance and career planning 
Call or write e~FV, 8353 Sepulveda Blvd. Sepulveda, California 91343. Tel. 213-894-5711 
\~ -: 

The College of Law offers a full-time 3 year day program as well as part-time'· day and evening programs. The school is fully accredited by the Committee of .............8&J:.-6x-amiaen o'the. Stat-e·Ba.r·of·Galif.oFnia;·,···----...... 
: 
_­


~--------------~--------­• 
. 


the obs~~~--------3 
SLC provides iliput • ..
'. . .
1nto reQrgan1zat1on 
by Barb Langhenry Peter Haley, south quad repre­
Copy Editor sentative, responded to this by stating that you do not need to live in a dorm to understand the 
In an attempt to solicit ideas for problems of dorm life. and tp clarify their position on the current proposal for the revision of Gary Luchini, next year's north the Student ·Life Council (SLC), quad representative, cited the re­Student Body President Pave Ben­sults of a survey he conducted, der and Student Government &ce­asking rectors if they would want to cutive Coordinator Joe Gill were serve on a subcommittee of the present at the SLC meeting yester­SLC. Only seven of them respond­day. ed, but four of these said they did 
not have the time for such aAlthough there was not a quor­committee. 
um, the meeting proceeded with much discussion about the pro­Paczesny pointed out that a good
posal which would center the SLC response from the rectors concern­around dorm life, and its merits ing how they view this proposal.
with regard to the purpose of SLC. 
which would include them, is Dean Roemer, Dave Bender and joe Gill discuss Bender's SlC proposal at yesterday's meeting Bender announced he would give needed. He stated he was willing [photo by janet Carney careful consideration to the opin­to issue a survey from his depart­
ions expressed, would contact the ment, which he feels would be ·members of the council individually 
more readily answered than a to get their feelings and would then student survey.
Bender warns of crackdown 
review the proposal in light of these opinions. Bender then responded he would not make this proposal if he did not
Many of the members present think the rectors would follow

by police in tavern area 
expressed concern about Bender's through.
!icemen drove up to a ND student Russell's choice, and two abstain-proposed omission of faculty from
by &b Varettoni 

walking back to campus at night. ed. _ the council. Bro. Just Paczesny,
Senior Staff Reporter Bender noted he and Student 
The policemen ~one a flashlight Florenceanne Strigle, student vice president for Student Affairs, 
Government are working for the Dave Bender, student body pre­in the face of the student, then government academic commission­stated that the membership of best interests of the student and 
arrested him for drunkenness since er, announced that student gov­faculty, student and administrators 
sident, warned Hall President's have seen there is a problem and 
his eyes appeared glassy. They er.nment will conduct a poll this is important because each is inter­
Council in Zahm Hall last night that want to address it. They are 
later released the student when week to determine ''how students ested in student life in a different
"the South Bend police are going asking the SLC to try to make a 
they discovered that his eyes really do feel about 8 a.m. exams." manner.
to make examples of Notre Dame step to make an improvement.
weren't glassy, he was just wearing She said she would like to present
students in the next two weeks, This is one councilwherefaculty,
contacts. the results of this poll at the
arresting people who litter or who along with administratiors involved He stated he saw in the SLC a
Ungashick said this indicates the Academic Council meeting on May
are publicly intoxicated.'' in student life, have direct input to lack of direction, lack of communi­
kind of problem students can 2.
''They're really going to crack ''get tough students outside the classroom, cation and a.. Jack of something to
expect from the ·new "If we can get an input on this,
down," Bender said. "Already Paczesny noted. talk about and felt that something
policy.'' He added that he did not th~n we can get results,'' she said.
there have been five or six arrests, must be generated. He added that
blame the residents in the area who "If we don't get any input it's just Sr. Jane Pitz of Campus Ministry 
and there are going to be more input corning from people who Jive 
. ., . had complained to the police about going to be passed over, and next echoed Paczesny' s concerns and 
commg. and work in dorms might help. 
the litter and the noise. year for sure there will be 8 a.m. stated, "By dropping the faculty,
Joe Ungashick, student govern­..
"They have a right to their exams. you continue to widen the chasm
ment off-campus commissioner, Fr. James Shilts, assistant pro­
privacy," he said. Keefe Montgomery, An Tostal which exists between faculty and
said two policemen will patrol the fessor of physics, noted that chang­
chairman, officially announced that students." Pitz sees the SLC as a
four block Corby-Eddy area. He ing structures does not automati­
Quann Appointed Secretary the Sleep Out had been cancelled group which closes this gap be­
added that they will arrest students cally do anything. He however
''because of the trouble last night cause of the contact available.
for littering, loitering, disturbin~ said, ''If the SLC does continue it
The HPC also approved the on the North Quad.'' Montgomery will be decent because of the firesthe peace, public intoxication, or 
appointment of a new Secretary also went over last minute prepa­Bender acknowledged the re­you (Bender) lit." Shilts added it itfor carrying alcohol outside tavern last night. Kristin Quann, a rations with many of the hall rnarkes and stated that there is a is important to see what one wantsbuildings. sophomore from Breen-Phillips presidents. need for more input from faculty to do and then to form a committee.
"You can do anything you want Hall, will hold this position from Tom Gryp, the new Student members. He asserted, however, while you're inside the bar," now until next May. Union director, will speak at next that the rectors do need a chance to 
SLC chairman Mike Casey an­Ungashick said. "But take it easy J.P. Russell,HPC chairman, re­week's HPC meeting in St. Jo­make direct proposals to Paczesny. 
nounced Peter Haley has been 
on the way home, then there won't commended Quann after inter­seph's Hall. This will be the final appointed temporary chairman tobe any problems.'' viewing nine candidates for the job. regular business meeting for the open the SLC meeting in the fall.
Gill elaborated on this point by Recently, Ungashick said, po-Twenty hall presidents approved HPC this year. 
stating, "A group like the SLC is not prepared to discuss areas of James A. Roemer, dean of hall life.'' The dorm is the center students was present and announ­
around which life on· campus ced the cancellation of the An Tostal sleep-out.
revolves, he added.
Human rights forum scheduled 
Debate on current human rights the Constitutional Court of the tee on international organizations policy and American foreign policy Federal Republic of Germany, will and movements. will characterize an international deliver a special April 25 address in Presiding at one session will be symposium to be held April27-30. advance of the symposium. He will Notre Dame's president, Rev. The­
te Last For 
Representatives of Communist speak on human rights and interna­odore Hesburgh, C.S.C., whose and Third World countries have tional law under the West German interest in human rights sterns been invited to join representatives Constitution. from his chairmanship of the 




HE LAST FOR 
of several international human Also involved in the four-day Rockefeller Foundation and of the rights organizations, scholars and meeting will be two U.S.congress­Overseas Development Council and politicians at the meeting, which is rnen, Indiana's Third District Rep­his membership on the Council on 


THE LAST FORM 
sponsored by the Law School's resentative John Brademas, House Foreign Relations. The conference . Center for Civil Rights. majority whip and Donald M. wiJI open at 8 p.m. Wednesday, 


THE LAST FORMAL 
A.H. Robertson, former director Fraser (D., Minn.), chairman of the April 27, in Notre Dame's Center of human rights in the Council of House Foreign Affair's subcommit-for Continuing Education. 
Europe's secretariat and a profes­sor of law at the University of Paris 
Jr. Class Formal LOTHLORIEN
will deliver the annual Civil Rights Lectures as part of the conference. ACC Concourse
Student Government 
His first lecture on April 27 wiiJ be 
a global assessment of the human This Friday, April 22 
rights situation, and his second on 
Weekly Forum 

April 29 wilJ treat the Helsinki ...TICKETS AT LaFortune ballroom Agreement and human rights. Issues to be covered at the 2 to 4 or will bedelivered by calling
country's first major conference on This Wednesday and every Wednesday human rights under academic aus­Mary Lou, 8148 ..: Sue 1326..Chip1068
pices include minority rights and 
at 6:30 pm

the self-determination of peoples, ... Pat 1854 ... TIX $7.00 ...if you think 
monitoring human rights violati~ns 
human rights and foreign assis­-·'W'Y11alledout u haven't 
tance, and humanitarian interven­LaFortune Ballroom tion and intercession. Among participants from abroad are Ben Whittaker, from the Min­Anyone And Everyone Welcome 


THE LAST FORMAL
ority Rights Group; Nigel S. Rod­ley, Amnesty International; Rober­ta Cohen, International League for 
THE LAST FORMA
Human Rights, and Peter Redda­way, London School of Economics ThIs Week's Special Guest : and Political Science. Longin Past­
HE LASTFORM
usiak of the Polish Research Insti­tute on Contemporary Capitalism Tom Gryp, S. U. Director at the University of Warsaw will be a discussant. 
Dr. .E;_rnst Benda, president of 
the observer 


Black students list discrimination cases 
\ tt-.tnflnlft:·d rn..., PR I l 
In rlw llnivn-.al ( 'hurak. There­lure, Ceruv retfllt''>h.'d thai Go,pd <"huir mnvt· In ;111nl her n:hearsal ...ih' 
Editor announces Scholastic Board 
by Chri110 Ual~man St·11iur Staff Rcpctrfcr 
"''cwlv dcckd &·hctlaHtlc Editor 1-:;!lh\' Mcl-:lrn_\' rceently &tnnnunced Ihe St·holasfk-Editorial l:loard ap­poullmenl-. fnr 1477-7X. 
:'llnl _\Tar':-. man<tging editor will he Mark .I. Onda-.h and Karen ( ;u·u...o. Otulash, is a former St·holastk husint·ss manager and ( ·amso is ;1 p;1.... 1 l'UPY editor. 
\lll'ri ~imon. a _juninr from \'inn·nnt•s. Indiana. will remain for :111ot her \'l'ar in her pre:'\t'Jit position ;1.., de-.ign etlilur. 
Pmdudinn manager will he Julie Hunklc. frum Peoria. lllinoi ... while l\1aurel'll Kdlv. from Nnrth Cald­well. Nl'\\ Jerse.\'. will take over as Lt,·out l'tliror_ 
.lake Mnrrissey. a freshman from lknnington. Vermont and a former Obst.•ner ... ran repurter. will as­sumt· the pnsitiun uf l'opy editor. 
Cultural editor .lim l{omandli. from l.aurd llollnw. New York. and photography editor Tom Everman. 

from  Ketlerin.f.!.  Ohio.  will  hnth  
remam  in  their  respective  posi­ 
tions.  
t.i...a  Michds.  from  Haltimorc.  

l\1~1n land. will take t'n'r as news cdih.lr and Maureen Walsh. from Blaurl'IL New York, will undertake special projects and the course l'\ aluation hooklet. 
( lary <.iarrahranl. a sophomore finance major. will assume tlw pll'Oition of business manager, with l.ee Henderids al·ting as advcrtisin manager. 
Taking o\Tr as sports l'ditor will be i{av O'l:lrien from Colts Neck. New .lersl·~·. previous!~· the assis­tant sports editor fnr the Obsener. 

Names needed for Ombudsman award 
Social Concerns commissioner, and representatives from the Dome, the Music Department and the Food Services. 
"I feel that there has been an injustice done to the black com­munity in one way or another," 
A not her letter, to he issued to Hocmcr. qucstinns the changing of the ltK.'<Itiun of a l:ICAC picnic held last Sunday afternoon ncar Holy Crus' Hall. Thc picnic was originally approved hy John Hied, director of student activities, to be held between Gra<.:e and Flanner Hall... The IKAC questioned in the letter whether l.'hanging the picnic 'itt' was done to prevent offending frit'rub and guests visiting the University over the weekend. 
At last.)light's meeting. it was pointt'd out that a similar picnic was held between the halls last year. The location of that picnic, held after a home basketball game, was not changed. 
Finally. the BCAC questioned I he procedure in which cheer­leaders were selected this year. saying that the procedures violated the chccrleading constitution. 
As a remedy. the letter, to be sent to Reid. propose' that one or two hlack judges he included on the panel. 
Bender concerned 

Student l:lody President Dave H••rHil'r. who attended last night's meeting. stated that he realizes "there is a prohlcm here." and will meet today with Valerie Hardy. Student Government Interracial/ 
the demonstration tomorrow. 

Dean of Students James Roemer has approved the demonstration, providing that students do not block regular traffic around the Administration building, and pro­viding that the protest is peaceful. 
Bender said. He stated that he will .-----------------------------. 
"attempt to find the extent of (the injustke) and hopefully the ans­wers to alleviate the problems." 
"There is a problem here," Bender continued. "Be it an injustice, discrimination or merely a lack of communication, a problem exist:'\. And the Notre Dame community should be made aware of it. There seems to be some valid criticisms raised by the BCAC" 
l:lender also said he would like ot meet with Hesburgh to discuss the proolcms raised by the BCAC. 
Students urged to participate 
Members of the BCAC stressed that the demonstration and petition drive arc open to any concerned students, not only black students. "The purpose of the sit-in is to add our physical presence to the impact to the letters," Barb Smith. a BC'AC' m('mber explained. They urged other students to participate in the protest. 
Over 75 students attended the meeting last night, at which votes 
The Department of English 
presents the ninth annual 
WARD-PHILLIPS LECTURES 
this year delivered by 
ELIE WIESEL 
Mellon Professor in the Humanities at Boston University; Author of Night, Dawn, A Beggar in Jerusalem, and several other novels, collections of ioumalism, and works devoted to understanding Hasidic tradition. 
FOUR HASIDIC MASTERS 
An exploration of the relationship between theology and literature by investigating Hasidic wisdom, grandeur, laughter, and melancholy as embodied in portraits of four souls on fire. 
First Lecture: Wed, April 20, 8:30pm Washington Hall 
It all may depend on how well we work together 
In r~n.·nt w~~ks this publica til m h<L-; carried a st.>rit'S llf messages fwm Armctl. This series tlf Armctl messages has talked ah..1ut ytlur j~..,b-h1..1w In\\ pn,fits. scarce energy. ~..werregulatilm. rabid etwir~..mmentalism and th~..,ught­kss affirmati\"t' <ll.'til'll fl,r equal rights may hurt ~t,ur chanl.·e of finding tht• hat at a time. hecoming partisans who consider those who disagree as enemtes. 

We'd like h.l make a suggestion. Cl1uld we all try a little harder t1..) work together'! 
FREE--Armco's plain talk on how to get a job 
•
• 

Plain talk about COOPERATION 
At Armco. we're working with many people to try to get things done. We're asking government officials-local. state and national-what they want us to do to help them in their work. We're sho"'ing them what we need to keep our plants running and people on the joh. We're trying to stop saying: "We can't:· We hope other people will stop sitying: "You musr:· We ought to both start saying: "Let's work together:· 
We don't have all the answers. But we're tr~ing to l<.x)k at each issue thoughtfully. so we can at least discover the pertinent questions. 
Next time you hear somebody demand that anybody else do some­thing. mayhe you should ask: "Has this idea el'er heen discussed with 1\'hoever H'i/1 ha\'f' to cany it ow?" Getting those I~.lXXU.XX) more iobs we need may depend on how well we all work together. 

ARMCO wants Y2Yr plain talk about cooperation and jobs 
were taken on adopting each letter and on holding the demonstration. The decisions were the culmination of almost ten hours of discussion both last night and Monday night. Thirty-eight students, a majority of those still in attendance, voted for 


-~------~-~~-----" -----" ~-­
\\~1 ~; ;~.. .. .. Wednesday, April 20, 1977 
the obser-..,.er
No lottery planned 
Crowded men's housing situation to continue 
of a problem, Mulcahy said, al­"right on the money." There will though last year at this time they be a few women in the freshman were short 23 beds and presently class next year but this is expected they are short 43 beds. Mulcahy to be off-set by the large grad· does not anticipate this to be too uating class he said. · Women much of a problem, but expects should not expect any problem with housing for women to come out housing next year Mulcah\ 'itated. 
Fiddler on the Roof
~~NO 
The loving theatrical hymn to the Jewish people based on the Sholem Aleichem stories
SMC 

Apr. 29, 30 8:00pmTHEATRE May 5, 6, 7 Olauglin Aud. 
.284·4176 $2.50 ($.2 std./fac.) 
A TIME TO DECIDE 
These few weeks are when Notre Dame students are making decisions. 
provided for  new  buildings,  pro­ 
grams  and  equipment,  besides  
adding  new  faculty  members  in  
these areas.  Library development  

A few samples: 
What kind of summer job should I look for? What will my major be? Whom will I room with next year? What will I do after graduation? 
For those considering the priesthood, the question is : 
\ 

Is this the time when I should decide whether I want to be a priest · 
If this is the decision you must make, you can get help by contacting: 
Fr. Joseph Carey, C.S.C. (219)283-6385 
Vocations Counselor· 
Why Is This Animal Still Hiding? 
,.
Because the Emmett Kelly Jr. CIRCUS is really coming to St. Mary's campus for An Tostal. 
Gentle Th-4ursria~"? A ~~1' ~ 1 ~+ ~~f\On"' RT
u y , .1'-'-.p ~ .1..1. ~ ~ a t '-' • v v y ........... """" 

COME IN TIME FOR THE PING-PONG DROP: 
4:45 in SMC FIELD NEAR THE DINING HALL. 
Over 250 Prizes Available!!! Popcorn, peanuts, Cotton Candy, hot dogs, Caramel apples, pop. In Case of Rain, Shows will be at 3:00, 5:00, and 7:00 
in Stepan Center. ·sMC &ND .Students..Facult &. Families FREE with ID 
by Diane WUson Staff Reporter 

The crowded on-campus housing that faced the men at Notre Dame this year will remain much the same next year, according to Fr. John Mulcahy. Nothing will be done to relieve the housing prob­lems, he stated. 
One solution would be to force students off-campus by lottery, but Mulcahy said he did not feel there '!'Vas enough of problem to warrant 
It. "People would rather live in crowded rooms than live off-cam-
ND campaign plan outlined 
by Mark Demeo 

E4Mr.'s NateaThlsls thesecondufa 
•rlea of arllcles on the· aa~palgil 
.,fer Notre Dame, CMerlq •Cfie variQu upeds oi the camplllgao 
The year of 1967 saw Notre Dame in a period of growth and change. Not only was it the one hundred twenty-fifth anniversary of the University's establishment, but also it marked a transfer in the governing hierarchy of Notre Dame from an exclusively clerical to a predominantly lay Board of Trust­
ees. 
One of the most important 

agents for the University's future 
development was the enactment of 
the program SUMMA. SUMMA, 
which spanned the years from 196 7 
to 1972 was a comprehensive 
program to generate $52 million. 
WithSUMMA, Notre Dame be­came the first university to ever attempt three capital gift cam­paigns in a row. The first two campaigns, "Challenge I" and "Challenge II," were both moder-pus," he continued. The crowding is all in how one looks at the dorms, he said. Mulcahy explained that six men living in a quad is not that bad when one considers that doubles are two men living in one room the same size as the rooms that make up the quads. 
The total number of freshmen expected to enter the University next year is 1625:1225 men and 400 women, according to John T. Goldrick, Director of Admissions. This figure is less than the present freshman class, 1698: 1327 men and 371 women. The reason for the decrease next year is that more 
ately successful campaigns. 
The name SUMMA reflects the 
campaign's high aspirations, and 
has academic connotations, sign­
ifying the "highest of the Best." 
SUMMA accelerated the pace of Notre Dame's progress, producing developments in the five years which might otherwise have taken fifteen. It became the blue print for the next five year's development: setting up long range institutional planning, estab­lishing goals and priorities, and determining the University's direc­tion. 
It also generated resources which made these goals attainable. 
SUMMA can be broken down into four categories: faculty develop­ment, growth of graduate educa­tion, special research programs and general development. 
The most vigourously pursued catgegory, and the one that r~ceiv­ed the greatest allotment of money ($20 million), was faculty develop­ment. Money was allotted to make professor's salaries not only com­petitive, but alluring. This factor, as well as the opening of new freshmen elected to attend Notre Dame this year than were expect­ed. The total anticipated under­graduate enrollment for next year 
is 6700, 100 less than this year. The decrease is due to the smaller number of incoming freshmen and the large number of seniors grad­uating this year, Goldrick said. 
The decrease in enroJlment will help the housing problems some, said Mulcahy, but the housing problems that the men have been experiencing this year, will con­tinue next year. 
Women are not facing that much 
faculty positions ana establishment of "endowed professorships" helped to entice many a reputable professor to the University. Such moves were necessary in order to counteract the strong attraction of business and government jobs, as well as other teaching positions. 
Growth in graduate education, to which $13.9 million was allotted, 
was to include improvements in computer techniques applied to operation and expansion and im­provement of research collection. 
The third category, special re­search, was alloted $9.5 million to provide additional facilites, pro­grams and faculty members deal­ing in research areas. 
Finally, under the category of gener.:il development, $13.5 million was alloted for student housing and other facilities. 
The program brought in a final total of $62 million: $6 million from trustees and another $20.8 million from other alumni. 

--------------------------------------~-----------------------------------........ 
~*The Observer 
an independent student newspaper serving notrt> dame and st. ma~~·s 
The Observer is published by students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College It does not necessarily reflect the policies of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board Commentaries, opinions and letters are the views of their authors Column space is available to all members of the community, and letters are encouraged to promote the free expression of varying 
opinions on campus. various leaders of the national for him to make and for which he  
Business Manager Advertising Manager Production Manager  Sue Quigley Steve Bonomo Karen Chiames  BoxQ movement to overturn the Supreme will be responsible. Although I Notre Dame disagree with his decision on thatCopy Editor Court abortion decisions. TheBarb Langhenry Ind. 46556 demands were prompted by the point, I do not raise that issue.Photo Editor Paul Clevenger  

Wednesday, April 20, 1977 
opinion 

The Other Side 
william thee 
The purpose of this opinion i!:to the fiber axis. Dr. jack Zussman example, the site favored by the correct the more blatant rnaccur­head of the Department of Geoloe~ 
acies in Mr. Craig Mortell's article 
in the April4, 1977 Observer. I am 
restricting 111Y rebuttal to two 
crucial mistatements of fact: 1T 
Mr. Mortell' misleading assertion 
that cummingtonite-grunerite (a 
component of the Reserve Mining 
Campany's discharge) has hPf.n 
found to be "chemically identical" 
to asbestos; and 2) The erronious 
claim that Armco/Reserve's con­
cern about closing the plant if 
ordered to abandon lake damping 
was "an outright lie". 
It is vital, at the outset, to clarify a number of important terms. "Asbestos" is a broad non-scien­tific name for a very wide range of different minerals. Scientists re­ject the use of this term for all but the broadest descriptive purposes. For example, referring to cum­mingtonite-grunerite as "asbestos' 
is like referring to beef as "meat". 
The term "amphibole" is more specific, referring to a group of minerals with essentially alike crys­tal structure involving a silicate chain 0H(Si4011)N and generally containinj! three groups of metal ions. "Cummingtonite-gunnerite refers to one ot many speotic minerals within the amphibole definition. 
"Amosite" is the name given to the specific mineral used to pro­duce the material commonly refer­red to as "commercial-grade as­
bestos". Arnosite is not an ' 
amphibole, and it is mined only in 
South Africa. 
There is no, repeat no, evidence anywhere that cummingtonite­grunerite has any (let alone ad­verse) affects on animal·or human health. Likewise, there is no such ; evidence on the effects of any amphibole. There is however a 
large amount of e~idencP ;h::.f-. 
---··~· 
~;;-;.,;;(e nas an adverse affect on animal and human health. In the Reserve Case, the United States' (Justice Department/EPA) strat­egy was to attempt to show that amosite was indistinguishable from cummingtonite-grunerite, and ere-ate the inference that cummingto­nite-grunerite produces the same adverse he::~lth affects as amosite. 
The evidense produced at trial, however, reveals a number of key differences between cummingto­nite-grunerite and amosite. First and foremost, there is a major difference in the conditions under 

which the two different minerals . fact, the incidence of cancer in are formed. Amosite can be ' Duluth Is lower than that of the formed only under circumstances State of Minne~ta and the United whereby the mineral is subject to a States ;\'-"' whole. low temperature and a mechanical On the cummmgtonite-gruner­strain of shearing mechanism. ite/asbestos/amosite issue, I rest Without these additional physical j my case. forces-which have not occured in 1 As for Mr. !Yortell's erronious Reserve's taronite mine-amosite I assertion that Armco/Reserve cannot be formed. "lied" about the danger 0f closing 
Another key difference is the the plant if ordered to abandon lake basic crystal structure of both dumping, the facts tell us other-
State of Minnesota (Milepost 20) at the University of Manchester would require an initial capital (Great Britain), tesWied that in expenditure of about $375 000 (X)() contrast to the defective, subunit plus another $100,(X)()JXXl' fnr'rrn­
type crystal structure of amosite keep over 30 years. Reserve cummingtonite-grunerite crystals Mining Company oper.1tes about 340 days out of every year. For 
were single homogenous crystals. each working day, Reserve makes a This difference in crystal structure profit of about $60,000. At this is especially important since, as Dr. time, Reserve's taconite mine is Zussman noted, the greater degree estimated to have additional life of of def.ects in t~e ~rystal s~ructure of : about 30 years. These figures do amos1te h~s Slgmflcan~e m term~ of , not take into consideration iflation 
the chem1cal propert1es, chem1cal 
· · d · · h. h h

ac~1v1ty an reactiVIty w IC t at · mmeral woul~ have. . 
Dr. C?rnellus Hurlbut, m the pr~parat1on of samples for . anal-y~1s, found_ that t~e cummmgt?­
mte-grunente was m general bnt­tle and broke up rather easily, but arnosite was difficult to grind because it tended to mat without pmducing short fibers. Space does not permit enumeration of all of the differences, but one final point should be noted: Amosite fibers typically range from two to eleven inches in length, whereas the "fibers" alleged to be in the Reserve Mine are only a few microns in length. That is a ~ comparison of two to eleven inc~es . with .0001%9th of one inch (f1ve 
m1crons). 1 
But iet us, for the sake of ' arguement, concede Mr. Mortell's point that cummingtonite-grunerite "has been found to be chemically identical to asbestos". In fact to be more accurate let us e~en concede that cum~ingtonite-grun­erite is similar to amosite. If these two minerals are similar then we must expect similar health affects. It is a scientific fact that increases in diseases associated with arnosite exposure do not appear until 15-20 years after initial exposure. This 15-20 year period is medict1llv 
--t~---..1 .._ ~~-~ ,,_.. ___ . --.· ;,. 
I 

II::;II::::IJO::::U lV a:t a lcllt::IILY ~riUU . 
Dr. I.T.T. Higgins of the Depart­ment of Epidemiology at the Uni­versity of Michigan, points out that latency periods are averages, meaning that with a 20-year latency period, some individuals may be stricken after 10 years and others after 30 years. But the major number of disease cases will "clus­ter" around the 20-year point. Reserve began its lake discharge in 1956 (20 years ago). Nationdl Cancer Institute statistics show no repeat no, increase in cance; incidence in the City of Duluth (the so-called "endangered city"). In 
EDITORIAl BOARD 
Marti Hogan Martha Fanning Bob Brink Kathy Mills Maureen Flynn Barb Breitenstein Tom Byrne Jean Powley Katie Kerwin Paul Stevenson Pat Cole David O'Keefe 

or the amount f · t t · d 
o meres requ1re 
on the initial capital investment. With these figures, we can see for ourselves the impact of the switch to on-land disposal by referring to the table below. 
Using the figures for Milepost 7, we find that total profit falls from $612,())(),000 to $2"i2,<XX.l,OOO. No wonder that Armco/Reserve have ''been contentedly fighting the State of Minnesota for permis­sion to dump its refuse at the most convenient and least expensive potential on-land site" {Milepost 7)-the difference is $75,<XX.l,OOO. 
For those who would argue that a loss of 77.7 per cent of total profit (for Mile~s~ 20-from $612 million to $137 m1llton) would not mean economic extinction, it should be remembered that Reserve Mining Company must raise the initial $375,(X)(),£m capital in~es~men~ i_n the bond market. At th1s t1me, 1t 1s difficult enough for a company seeking to increase profits to raise money ~n the ?end ma_r~et. Reserve 1s placed m tne pos1t1on of trying to attract investors to a project which consumes, but does not increase profits. 
Anyone naive enough to tell us that a company can sacrifice 77.7 per cent of its profit and still raise $400-$500 million in the bond 
rn::.rkPt i" nnt t.=-l:ir:::: ::::. ;:::-: ~~,..,..:_h+ 
• ...... ··~· ·-··--. -···o --_ .. VUUI~IIl 
lie (perhaps just a "subtrefuge"). 
(All facts/figures in this Opinion 
are from official Court Transcripts 
and/or Appellate Brief in my 
possession. They are available for 
inspection by a request to me in 
care of The Observer.) 
EDITOR'S NOTE: The author will receive his law degree and MBA in May. He spent eight months researching the Armco/ Reserve case and interviewing the people involved. He expects to publish his 200-page report of the case in the near future and will be workina in the field of 
lnHW~I ift~ 
thirty..year upkeep mst 
TOTAI.. EXPENDITURE REQUlRED $475,txil,(i)) 
Editor-in-Chief Managing Editor Asst. Managing Ed. Executive Editor Editorial Editor Exec. News Editor Campus Editor St. Mary's Editor News Editor Sports Editor Special Projects Ed. Features Editor 
opinion 

Hesburgh and 
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., President of Notre Dame, has been a member of the board of the Rockefeller Foundation since 1961. On January 14, 1977, he was elected chairman of the board of the Foundation. His acceptance of that position prompted calls for his resignation from the board by 
Foundation's support of various pro-abortion organizations. 
Father Hesburgh, as reported in The Observer of February 11th, rejected the calls for his resigna­tion. Moreover, he denied that the Foundation supports abortion. "The Foundation has nothing to do with abortion. In fact," he said, "you'll never find the word 'abor­tion' in the report" of the Founda­tion. When later questioned by NC News, the Catholic news· service, Father Hesburgh declined further comment. 
This essay is prompted by Father Hesburgh's statement as reported 
< 
P.O. Box 
Burtchaell's 
statements 
are false 
De81' Editor: 

A first page article in the April 6 edition of The Observer quoted Fr. Burtchaell as having said: "We have such a good thing in the halls, though it can be imoroved. ~n "'""" 
t... .i.l .-.;,. --· --··•""'"'.IJ 
;;::;~~~=-!tan what other universities 
have with co-ed dorms.  We don't  
want  to  change  what  we  have  
now."  

This statement expresses all too well the self-congratulatory back­patting that the administrators of Notre Dame are so very fond of. In 
environmental 

The University of Notre Dame owned Reserve Mining Company stock as part of its endowment investments. The stock was soJd when the cornpany became the object of federal prosecution for allegedly polluting lake Super­ior. 
$375,tXXl,<XX) 
$100,000,00) 
addition it is disgracefully pre­sumptous and is yet another one of Fr. Burtchaell's supercilious slights toward the "other univer­sities." Needless to say, I find this statement disheartening. 
Fr. Burtchaell is claiming that the social life generated in the ND dorms, though imperfect, is "such 
siigntest scrutiny. A; a -~~;ident'~{ 
a  good thing"  that  we  need  not  
change  it  now.  This claim  will  
simply  not  stand  uo  nnciPr  :h~  

Dillon, I an literally dumbfounded by the extreme lack of originality displayed by Dillonites in their social life. The social life of Dillon revolves almost strictly around sports, drinking and displaying Dillon spirit. I should mention that Dillon spirit means for the most part being wasted, obscene and wantonly destructive. This sort of puerile behavior is not just a result of the type of people in Dillon; it is something which the dorm life of Dillon nurtures. Being himself a Dillon resident, Fr. Burtchaell cer­tainly must be aware of the lack of "such a good thing" in Dillon. 
Dillon, it can be said, is an extreme case, but the other male halls are not really too much better; surely they have a great deal to gain and little to lose by becoming co-ed. However, our administra­tors make things easy for them­selves by saying "we have such a good thing in the halls'' at ND that '"we don't want to chang(! y.rhat we have now." This is.:the ~lassie copout: one claims that the present in The Observer of February 11th. I am not concerned with the issue of whether Father Hesburgh should resign from the Rockefeller Found­ation. Father Hesburgh is person­ally strongly opposed to abortion and I have a very high respect for him. Whether he should stay on the Foundation board is a decision 
Rather, I write to avoid misunder­standings that might arise within the University community with respect to the Rockefeller Founda­tion itself in the wake of Father Hesburgh's reported assertion that the Foundation ''has nothing to do with abortion." I have waited over a month to respond because it will be more useful to consider the Foundation's promotion of abortion apart from the immediate issue of whether Father Hesburgh should be a board member or•its chairman. 
I do not venture here a compre­hensive analysis of the activities of the Rockefeller Foundation. Rath­
minerals. The amosite crystal is in wise. The estimated cost of situation is so good that questions
Total Profit $612,\XX),~
fact composed of a great number cl , switching from lake to on-land concerning change c;:an be safely
Total Expenditure ' !i75,~<m . 
subunits called fibrils which are disposal varies by the partkular . ''$137.~-. relagated to the refuse pile. 
REMAINING PROFIT 
. ·"'"" --'\.
present in all orientations around on-1~ site ronsiderecL For This statement by Fr. BtirtcflaeJl
• ' J ' ~­
er, I merely offer a •few citations and references among others that could be advanced to illustrate the fact that the Foundation has indeed quite a bit to do with abortion. 
First, on an incidental note, it is not true that, as Father Hesburgh is reported to have stated, "you'll never find the word 'abortion' in the report" ofthe Foundation. The most recently available report of the Rockefeller Foundation is that for 1975. On page 25, it lists a grant to the American Civil Liber­ties Union Foundation, a pro­abortion group, of $5,000 "for distribution to American obstetric­ians-gynecologists of the educa­tional brochure, 'The Abortion Controversy--A Doctor's Guide To The Law."' On page 24, the Report lists an award to Charlotte Muller of the City University of New York for a study of ''Abortion Benefits Under Health Insurance and The Right To Privacy." 
More significantly, the 1975 Report, on page 28, lists a grant of $15,000 to the Transnational Fam­ily Research Institute, Bethesda, 
~JNG-fti~AIN? ~I ••• 

Q 
insults the integrity of the students at Notre Dame. It exemplifies part of the reason why the social life at ND is so horrid. And, being an ND student, I am greatly embarrassed by it. 
WUiiam Farmer 

Alumni & Jail 
a I •
Alumni & jail -;; 
Dear Dean Roemer, 
May I be the first to congratulate you on your latest display of Jove and understanding towards all students of Notre Dame. Your strong encouragement for the en­forcement of laws regarding un­derage drinking, public intoxica­tion, and isdorderly conduct shows your true concern for the respect of the law and the welfare of your "children." I was shocked to overhear a dining hall conversation in which you were accused of "once again, seeking status and power at the expense of the students." Certainly that was the furthest 
thing from your mind, was it not? 
There was one question left in my mind, however, after reading your comments. Since you have such a high regard for the law, Dean Roemer, you obviously would not limit the enforcement of these laws to students would you? This also means that you would not only favor, but also encourage the enforcement of laws against public intoxication and -open alcoholic beverage containers on fall football week-{'.nds, when so many alumni 
Ithe Rockefeller Foundation 
charles rice 
Maryland, "for support of its key role in the removal of constitu­Internationa1 Reference Center for tional barriers to abortion. It Abortion Research and Publication served as the coordinating agency of Abortion Research Notes.'' The for the preparation of pro-abortion February, 1977 issue of this Rock­amicus curiae briefs to the efeller-subsidized publication, A-Supreme Court in the Roe v. Wade 
. bortlon Research Notes, announced and Doe v. Bolton cases of 1973 . fhe formation in September, 1976, (Osofsky & Osofsky, The Abortion of the National Abortion Council as Experience (1973), 504.) a successor organization to the Another substantial beneficiary 
Association for the Study of Abor­of Rockefeller Foundation grants tion, another group supported by was the James Madison Constitu­the Rockefeller Foundation. The tional Law Institute. The Rocke­National Abortion Council was feller Foundation, in the last half of formed ''with the primary aim of 1974, granted $50,000 to the Insti­fostering the accessibility of quality tute for its "program in population abortion services." law.'' (RF Wustrated, August, 
The Rockefeller-supported Abor­1975) A similar grant in the same tion Research Notes announced amount was made to the Institute that it had participated in the in the first half of 1972. (RF organizational meeting of the NAC Wustrated, Oct., 1972) This latter and was "pleased to present the grant is particularly significant NAC Statement of Principles," the because, during 1972, the James tenor of which is exemplified by the Madison Constitutional Law Insti­statements, "It is essential ·that tute handled the entire appeal for abortion be readily available at the pro-abortion side in Roe v. reasonable fees" and "parental Wade and, in the companion case and spousal consent should not be of Doe v. Bolton, it filed the 
required." principal pro-abortion brief and 
The Association for the Study of wrote the legal arguments related Abortion, the predecessor of the to the medical aspect of the case. NAC, was a substantial recipient of (See Osofsky and Osofsky, The 
Rockefeller Foundation support. Abortion Experience (1973), 508) including, for example, a $15,000 The James Madison Constitutional grant in the last half of 1974 for Law Institute has now changed its "information programs." (RF name to the Population Law mustrated, a publication of the Center. Rockefeller Foundation, August, The Population Law Center, 1975; see also, "The Rockefeller formerly the James Madisoi-: Con­Anti-Life Legacy--A Report on stitutional Law Institute, has Rockefeller Family Interests in played a crucial role in changing Population Control," submitted by American law to permit abortion. the U.S. Coalition for Life to the In a realistic sense the Center is the 
U.S. Senate Committee on Rules legal spearhead of the abortion and Administration, September 30, movement. Essential collateral 1974). The Association played a support in mobilizing pro-abortion 
opinio n !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~ 
Remember? 

DOONESBURY by Garry Trudeau 
s~ ldiATI aJN7fiflts 
IUHY YtX'HAIJ 7lJ {JJNOfJCT AU 7lllSC NE60l!ATKJNS IIJ SECRE:Ct? !Pill fJ/PNT '!f){) Jl./STANNIXNCE YOUR. P051­
TIOV5, liKE MR.-c:AI<7CR 
JX)t;S? 
/ 

opinion has been supplied by the Association for the Study of Abor­tion and its successor, the National Abortion Council. All of these groups have received Rockefeller Foundation support. 
Other pro-abortion recipients of Rockefeller Foundation largesse include, among others, the Planned Parenthood Federation of America, which in the second quarter of 1974 received $900,000 from the Foun­dation for its "Center for Family Planning Program Development'' (RF IDustrated, March 1975); the Sex Information and Education Council of the United States, which in the first quarter of 1974 received $25,000 from the Foundation for "information and education programs" .(RF Illustrated, August, 1974); and the Population Council, which supports aborti­facient as well as contraceptive research and which received from the Foundation $78,500 in the first quarter of 1974 for "teaching materials," $500,000 in the first half of 1974 for "research on contraceptive development" and 
$500,000 in the first half of 1972 for "new approaches to control of conception" (RF Wustrated, Oct., 1972; August, 1974; Au,gust, 1975). 
According to the International Planned Parenthood Federation News, January, 1976, "The Popu­lation Council has proposed an international meeting on abortion services, to identify and present the foreseeable needs in the devel­oping world for terminations and it> discuss what help international bodies can give." The most recently available report of the 
--. ---• ' •. -... "~~ 1 071;, Population CounctJ 1s tnat tv• 
.L _,.-. 

On page 101, it states that the Rockefeller Foundation had contri­buted $1,468,000 to the Council in 1975 and had pledged $846,000 to the Council for 1976 and $1,167,000 for 1977. 
As an incidental point, the Planned Parenthood-Missouri affil­iate and the American Civil Liber­ties Union were responsible for bringing to the Supreme Court the 1976 case of Plaimed Parenthood 
v. Danforth, which invalidated state laws requiring spousal and parental consent for abortion. Roy Lucas, who began the James Madison Constitutional Law Insti­tute and served as president of the Population Law Center, is now counsel for the pro-abortion side in Baird v. BeUottl, the companion case to Danforth, which was re­manded by the Supreme Court and is still being litigated in Massachu­setts. 
In 1975, the Rockefeller Founda­tion expended $42,854,644 in vari­ous grants and programs. Of this, $8,513,718 was devoteQ_ to the "Population and Health" category, 
· ofwhich only an indeterminate part can be connected with abortion. This amount is indeterminate because .grants which have an indirect effect in support of abor-
ANO 5ETMR. CAK!l31?'S 
flESIJIJS? ~MAN. I tl/AS NJT IN 7JIE BtJSINE$ OF I?JIE70RJC! A tAsTING 571M::TII/1E OF ~AC£ ~ 
MY (J'(tY CONCCI?N! '-.,.,. 
NO! /JON'T ()() 
17; BARNeY/ 
II/~ N&W YOfJ 
H/31?t AT110MBI 
I 

tion can be variously described. The 1974 grant, for example, o1 $35,000 to Cornell University "for a study of early detection of norma!. and abnormal pregnancy" (Rock­efeller Foundation Report, 1975, p. 
27) has obvious abortional implica­tions even though you will not find the word ''abortion'' in its descrip· tion. This is true also of the aforementioned grants to the Popu· lation Council which is involved in the development of early aborti­facients as well as contraceptives. 
The Rockefeller Foundation has 

done much good, for example,_ 
through its promotion of agricul­
tural advancements. But the 
question here is whether the Foun· 
dation has anything to do wth 
abortion. Manifestly, it does. 
While its pro-abortion grants car• 
not be called the major activity of 
the Rockefeller Foundation, it car 
hardly be denied that Foundatiot 
grants have been materially helpfu 
to significant pro-abortion groups. 
It is fair to say, for instance, tha1 
the Supreme Court's 1973 .abortioni 
rulings would probably not have 
turned out as they did had it not 
been for the activities of the James 
Madison Constitutional La~ 
Institute and the Association for 
.~te Study of Abortion and that 
..hose groups were aided substanti­
ally by Rockefeller Foundation 
grants. 
Another anti-life aspect of the· 

Rockefeller Foundation's activities 
is its pervasive promotion ot 
contraception. (See, for example. 
the above mentioned grants tCJ 
Planned Parenthood and the Popu­
lation Council.) This, however, ist 
beVGtid t~e scope of this essay. We 
are concerned here oniy wii~ 
abortion. Suffice it to say that the~ 
Rockefeller Foundation's perform·' 
ance in :his matter is clearly on. the· 
side of permissive abortion. ~ 
emphasize that I do not imply that 
Father Hesburgh is sympatheti( 
toward abortion. He is personally 
firmly opposed to it. In his book 
"The Humane Imperative;• Fathe1 
Hesburgh stated -his opposition tc 
abortion and also wrote, "As ~ 
member of the Rockefeller Founda· 
tion board, I have constantly 
argued against the 'Fuller Brush' 
approach to population contro 
whereby objectionable m(;;ans o· 
every variety are pushed upot 
large populations without th\ 
slightest regard for their cultural 
religious, or psychological charac~­
teristics--the huckster approach 
missionary in its fervor and insensi 
tive in its methods." 
What is at issue here is tht 

erroneous impression generated b} 
Father Hesburgh's reported cta:im, 
that the Rockefeller Foundation ha~ 
'"nothing to do with abortion." 
The claim is wholly at variance wit) 
the record. The Foundation hru. 
Jone good things. But with respeci 
to abortion•. its impact bas been aru~ 
continues tD be substantial and 
·demo~trably evil in its effect. 
Remember: 
The 65 degree temperatures in 
your homes; the school closings in 
your neighborhoods; the brownouts 
in your cities and towns. As you 
know, our country is in the midst of an energy crisis. The winter of 1976-77 was only a hint of what the future holds. President Carter will present his Energy Policy to Con­gress on April 20, 1977. Prelimin­ary reports indicate that the Energy Policy that is proposed will inciudi: heavy reliance on conservation and development of coal resources. We all agree that conservation is vital in the short term. However, by about the turn of the century, not only will we need all of the coal which can be delivered, but alter­nate energy source is the Liquid Metal Fast Breeder Reactor 
/I ll.A"T:"Ort'\ "11' ,~ • • 
\LlnronJ. unronunately, Presi­dent Carter does not acknowledge that the LMFBR has the potential for saving the US from the clutches of sever energy shortages. His Energy Policy reportedly will not include funding of development programs for the LMFBR. 
What is a Liquid Metal Fast Breeder Reactor? The LMFBR is a specific type of nuclear power plant that can utilize uranium much more efficiently than other nuclear plants because it converts an otherwise useless type of uranium into fuel for itself and other nuclear plants. The type of uranium used in the LMFBR is a by-product of other processes, and there is approxi­mately $20 trillion worth of that fuel (owned by the US taxpayers) now stockpiled in our country. That is equivalent to about five times the amount of oil available in all the _petroleum exporting nations. 
ed byrnes 
Why do we need the LMFBR? Because the present supplies of energy available in the quantities needed to support this nation's requirements are estimated at 30 years each for oil, natural gas, and uranium without the LMFBR. Coal, the remaining major energy alter­native, is found in quantities which should hold out approximately another 200 years. However, the mining and burning of mere cca! pose ecological and safety prob­lems. In fact, only 6 percent is economically recoverable, and there is now no way to transport it. To produce electricity from a billion tons of coal would cost a staggering $310 billion. 
How long will the uranium (with LMFBR) last? Nuclear experts 
C~llllla.L'-Lll'-;,upp•J l'-IUa.UUil!; Clt 
1000-1500 years_ 

With such long term possibili­ties, the construction of the LMFBR would seem by all means the next best step to be undertaken in attempting to solve this coun­try's energy crisis. But, by cutting funds for the LMFBR program, President Carter is in effect putting us out in the cold! 
This brief letter was written to enlighten the collegiate students on a matter which will most certainly effect us all in the near future, with the hopes that we as concerned citizens will help Mr. Carter adopt an energy proposal that will include the LMFBR. All it takes on our part is to write a short letter to our nngressmen telling them that the LMFBR is the way to go. Remember the 65 degree temperatures, the­school closings, the brownouts, . . . 
are openly drinking and obviously I realize, Dean Roemer, that intoxicated in the stadium parking nowhere in the Du Lac Handbook is lot. Or would there be soem the dean required to explain any
unknown reasons why this outward statements. However, just this display of lawbreaking is ignored? 
once, could you please take the At the same time, students striving time to answer this puzzling issue? 
to find even the smallest inkling of 
It is one which I am sure is of great a social life art threaten with an 
concern to many students. 
overnight · '~educational opportun-· • ity',..in jail! Jose E. Marrero c:. -~. '-Wednesday, April 20, 1977 


Art Pictures At An Exhibition 
Someone is pointing at you, Notre Dame, and you had better look. DuLac art majors are exhibiting in the annual Student Art Show. Stop in the Art Gallery and see Domer artists and their impressions. No one is exempt. Sue Hart takes a crack at vending machines in her photographic series • 'Selection." It is applied color photography with a large dose of imagina­tion. Jim Jennewien captures art profes­-;ors Doug Kinsey and Don Vogl in his ;Jhotographic portraits, "Doug" and 
·con.·' The life-size portraits are hung too ,ow but are still effective and heavy on character. "Have you heard a good one lately?" is Bill Mahn's photo entry. It has the strong composition and imagination the photography in the show is strong on. Sherry Simon and Louise Karas also exhibited some fine prints. 
Sculpture is the other high point of the Student Show. Grad student Robert Lipnick' s piece greets the viewer as he enters. Although it is "Untitled" it certainly isn't unnoticed. The unglazed ceramic combination stands four feet high and resembles a table topped by a large "X." It resembles the sculpture Lipnick 


Joan Luttmer 
exhibited in the "Chicago and Vicinity Art Show" at the Art Institute of Chicago earlier this year. 
Soft sculpture is well represented also. John Steffy's ecru and brown rug weaving is subtle and delicate in scope. "January Red,'' a woven wall sculpture by Barbara Peterson is distinguished by sensitive color use. It combines red wool materials, cotton fluff, and string. ~ 
In graphics or drawing Billy Hassell must be mentioned. His etching and drawing style are unique and energetic. They must be energetic judging from the number of his entries. The nuances of his drawing technique and his composition in "Sleeping Dog" are especially effective. A contrasting drawing style is displayed by the Industrial Design students. Louise Karas contributes her detailed and tight rendering of a Porsche automobile. The Industrial Design department also exhibits part of the visuals and graphics from their participation in the Armco Student Design Program. The three large panels in the show are less than a third of the total project. The boards on display highlight the three areas of firefighting that indus­trial design students worked on. The work was originally presented in March at the Dallas design show. 
Last year's show featured better paint­ing, although the current show has some nice watercolors from Sharon Ladewski and John Schesinger. Pat O'Brien's "Search­ing for St. Vincent in a Sea of Plastic" is also excellent. His technique is more drawing than painterly with small brush strokes and well-chosen coloration. There were a few other paintings of note but the 

(photo by janet Carney) 

Untitled I Robert Lipnick 
show  lacks  the  painting  skill  that  was  
obvious in  last year's  show.  Paintings  
exhibited  outside  the  Art  office  in  

O'Shaughnessy have shown more of the painting talent in the department than the present show. 
As a whole the show this year is better than last. Selections show skill or imagination. Exceptional pieces show both. The jury should be thanked and credited for their taste. All that is left to make the show excellent is the attendance. Notre Dame should go and see the Student Show in the Art Gallery. It is Notre Dame interpreted, mirrored, or ignored by her artists. 
Mouies 

Weak Eagle, Good Woody 
THE EAGLE HAS LANDED 

Directed by John Sturges Starring Donald Sutherland, Michael Caine, Robert Duvall 
It is 1945, and the Second World War is coming to an unhappy end for the Third Reich. Mussolini, Germany's most potent ally, is rescued from his Alpine prison by paratroopers and brought to Berlin. Inspir­ed by this success, the desperate, crazed Fuhrer orders an investigation into the feasibility of kidnapping British Prime Minister Winston Churchill. 
In that we know that the plan fails before we see the film's final sequences, The Eagle Has Lauded is not a movie that rises or falls according to the suspense it is able to generate and sustain. The plot authored by Colonel Radl (Robert Duvall), a crisp Nazi officer, is typically German; scientif· 
1rul.lltr ;""....,~,..--1 -• --• • 

........J ""P"''-\.:iiute yet tmagmattvely sparse. 
It calls for a paratroop commander named 
Steiner (Michael Caine) to land his men in 
England and locate themselves in the town 
that Churchill is to visit. Posing as free 
Polish troops on maneuver, theirs is to 
simply sit and wait until they unsuspecting 
PM shows up, and snatch him. Aided by 
an IRA loyalist named Devlin (Donald 
Sutherland), and one of the town's most 
prominent citizens (Jean Marsh), the success of the mission is virtually assured. The reason for its failure is a pretty piece of peculiar irony, and one of the few moments in which the film demonstrates a willing­ness to leave the securityof the surface and try to get at .some meaningful, significant truths about men at war. 
Even the most obvious efforts to say something salient are embarrassing for their clumsiness. Scenarist Tom Mankie­wicz has none of the controlled force of Jack Higgins, who authored the best-seller on which the movie is based. For example, a young local lass (Jenny Agutter) whose affair with Sutherland provides the film with a superfluous and strained love interest, discovers that he is in cahoots with the Germans and says, "I love you. That doesn't mean that I like you, or what you have done, or myself." 
Even if the story doesn't carry the film, tbe presence of ·people like DuvaH and Sutherland and Caine . should more than :ompensate for the inefficiencies of the· ' script. But it is not to be. Director Sturges, apparently concerned about the possibility of subverting the plot with overpowering performances, restrains and relegates the actors, containing some immeasurable talents that might well have saved the movie in the long run. 
Robert Duvall has only recently given us an indication of a versatility commensurate with his abilities, such as his portrayal of Dr. Watson in the Sherlock Holmes film, The Seven Per-Cent Solution. But as Colonel Radl, Duvall becomes so con­cerned with perfecting his tight Teutonic trills that he has no screen time left over in which to develop the character. 
Michael Caine plays Steiner, the para­troop leader who inspires fierce loyalty in his men and unwarranted apathy among audiences. Part of the problem lies in the apparent miscasting of Caine, but it is hard 
~~ ~:::~g~iie aiiyuu.;· tioing ·any ~c:~.;1 ;,~~~ such an impenetrable hero. We know what kind of man he is, but never find out what it is that makes him so. 
Donald Sutherland steals his scenes with a charming brogue and disarming wit, but, like the others, he falls victim to the film's sense of its own importance. Sutherland has labored in roles that no one sees, foremost of which was his brilliant job in the all-but-invisible Day of the Locust. It's too bad that his first major role in too long would be this, a bone with too little meat. 
It should also be mentioned that there are some performances that are bad in their own right, not because of the way in which the roles were drawn. Larry 
Hagman as an American officer, and Donald Pleasence as Heinrich Himmler, play their parts as a cartoon colonel and a milktoast Nazi, respectively. 
Higgins' book has met with popular approval among readers, many of whom accuse the film of sins of ommission. It is true that Mankiewicz leaves out necessary details, not necessary in the sense that they help explain the story, but necessary in lending the film the texture and depth that it so obviouly lacks. In the end, Tbe Eagle Bas Landed teaches two important lesson!.: the need for a serious study of the art of adaptation, and the need for the realization that no actors, no matter how able, can make ·a bad script sound good, Note: Tl)e Eagle Ha~ L~~decJ Is_ now showlllg at the Forum 1 Cinema. 

BOUND FOR GLORY Directed by Hal Ashby Starring David Carridine, Ronny Cox, Melinda Dillon 
When Bound For Glory was released late last year, no one went to see it. Critics dismissed the 2':12-hour long biography of folk singer Woody Guthrie as a tedious piece that says little. After a dismal opening in Los Ane:eles, the producers took the film back in and prepared to cut off a sizeable chunk, making the movie hope­fully more palatable to general audiences. 
Only the film's six Academy Award nominations, including one for Best Film saved it from the editing room floor. After 
---:-~ n---..J J<... ,..,__• • ...--..1~ ..1-1•• 
~~1u5 DUII.llU .va UIUI'Y. ~ W4:> UVUUIJ 
dtsconcerted. 1-couldn't flgure out why the critics didn't like it, but then I only know too well that critics are so very often wrong. The other thing that bothered me was its poor reception. It's easy to dismiss critical evaluations, but the audience is where it's at. But the answer eventually made itself clear: Bound For Glory was cold-shouldered by the general audience because it was not made for the general audience. It emphasizes cinematic qual· ities that are now emerging as significant elements in an art form still finding itself. 
Bound For Glory belongs, strangely enough, not to the actors or director or screenwriter much as it is the property of 
the cinematographer, the man responsible in large part for the visual quality of the film. It is safe to say that Haskell Wexler is one of the best in the business, and the refined elegance of his work here has set a standard. 
The biography begins in Texas during the Dust Bowl days that sent so many scrambling for the vacant promises of California fruit-picking. Wexler captures the choking dryness and arid listlessness of life in these surroundings so well that the association with the characters by the audience is practically effortless. One scene, a dust storm, is as impressive as a special effect as it is impacting in the 
• context of the film, com~nicating in a 
.. brief shot the seeming int:scapabiJity of life in the Dust Bowl. 
Dauid O'Keefe 

But escape Woody (David Carradine) does, hopping freights to California, hitchiking, trudging under the omnipres­ent sun. And Wexler goes along with him, drawing every bead of sweat and every grimy hobo into the trasformational magic of his camera, infesting the film with a lyric quality wholly appropriate to its subject. 
Wexler is neither obtrusive nor over­whelming, sharing the film with the equally capable talents of David Carradine. 
Carradine plays a Woody that is endearing without being aggressive, subtle without being obscure. He also highlights the film with some accurate pickin' and grinnin' as he sings several Guthrie songs as well as some of his own. 
The legitimacy of Carradine's talent comes out in the variety of scenes he is required to play. While most of the film concerns itself witl'! W oodv' s efforts to 
organize fruit pickers inio .iatv~ ;,;;;.~~::~. much comes from the basic story line: a brief affair with a wealthy young woman whom Woody meets in a soup kitchen (nicely handled by Gail Strickland); the dissolution of his marriage, which is unique in that it prefers dialogue over the typical pan-throwing shouting match; pro­fessional success and the first real breaks; and, finally, a terrible conflict between what Woody believes in and what he is asked to do. Carradine handles all with equal care, maintaining a proper listless ambivalence above, all the while commun­icating the surging passions below as they are manifested in music. 
Above all, Bound For Glory is a courageous film. It dares to be great only because it dares to be different, to tell the story as it was meant to be told. And seen. It is a courage that Woody would have been proud of. At the end of the delightful 2V2 hours, after Woody leaves for New York and his ultimate death, the screen carries a legend against a magnificient background of a freight train at sunset: 
Rambling is my nature, 
Gamblin_g is my game 
Deal me out your hardest card 
I'll win this goddamn game. 
.. Np~:. Bound For Glory Is now showillg at tbe River Park Theatre. 
--~--~-, 
Wednesd~y, April 20, 1977 
the observer 9 

-----~­
·---------------­

Faculty Senate favors evening exam option 
by MllW'een Flynn Editorial Editor 

The prohibition against evening examinations should be lifted, but the 8TT10 time slot should be kept open as an alternative, according to a Faculty Senate report on the departmental examinitions ques­tion. 
The report, compiled by an ad hoc committee of four faculty members and four students and approved by the Senate last night, will be distributed to Academic Council representatives before they meet May 2. 
The committee based its recom­mendation on the results of two surveys, one of students and one of faculty. Of the 298 students responding, 33.89 percent said they would prefer to take an exam "outside regularly scheduled class periods" in the evening, while 
31.54 percent said they would prefer the 8 a.m. period. Almost 20 percent of those responding said they would prefer some other designated time period and 10.74 percent chose restricted evenings (e.g., Mondays, Tuesdays, etc.). 
Of the 277 faculty members responding to a separate survey, 
31.77 percent said that, when necessary, they would prefer to administer an examination "at a time other than the regularly scheduled class period" in the evening. Eight a.m. exams were 
Dining halls offer Food Day menu 
Food Da_y is sponsored by The Center for Science in the Public Interest (CSPI) as a "day of education and action on food issues." C'SPI conc~:rns include "ample food, good nutrition, and a fair-priced food supply" for the alleviation of hunger and malnutri­tion in America and around the world. 
Since protein is essential, not only for good nutrition, but for life itself and since it is neither ample nor fair-priced for many, it is used as the focus of a special Food Day menu in the dining halls to­morrow. 
The special dining hall menu ­though it includes meat as one protein source -also offers several dishes utilizing protein comple­mentarity among vegetable sources, (e.g.: Spaghetti-For­Peanuts, Fruit Salad with Peanuts and Sunflower Seeds, Sesame Dream Bars). 
Also included are several com­binations in which the vegetable protein is complemented by "sur­plus" amino acids in milk or in eggs (e.g.: Scalloped Potatoes, Rice Con Queso). 
Several posters in each dining hall present charts illustrating pro­tein complementarity. They also list examples of food combinations which can be selected from the menu and show protein values for each. 
Protein is available from many foods, though both quality and quantity vary widely with the source. Protein quality is deter­mined by which amino acids -the 
-building blocks of protein -are present, as well as by their relative proportions. By the~e standards egg is tl_le most perfect source. Dairy pro­ducts and meats follow. Vegetable sources also provide protein, though the protein they provide may not contain all the essential amino acids or they may be present in the wrong ;,loportions. Thus they are "incomplete," or are of poorer quality than those of animal sources. However, an amino acid supplied by vegetable source is as good as one from an animal source. The solution to the problem lies in combining vegetable sources so · that the strengths of one source counteract the weaknesses of the other. For example, the right comination of beans and rice makes 
~~~!~~~~~o ~~~u~o;: th:~c~r":h;:~ 
foods ·w~re-e.ateJl'lseparatel~ 1~ ~i ~! 
preferred by 25.27 percent of those total respondents said the time of can." he added. appoint proxies if unable to attend responding, while 25.63 percent day was too early. Fr. Claude Pomerleau noted, meetings. chose "some other time (e.g., 4 Over twenty-nine percent of the "The question is how many people The new proposal extends the 
p.m. Monday or Thursday)." faculty said they opposed the were surve\'ed to make the decision recommendation to include elected 
The student survey also revealed current policy because "it reduces in the tirst. place. I think we're on student members of University that over half the students respond­flexibility in scheduling examina­safe ground." bodies and stipulates that the ing do most of their studying for an tions, classes, laboratories, etc.·· appointed proxies will be other exam the night before (rather than and another 18.05 percent said "it Proxy representatl\·es faculty members or students res­over a period ofdays) and sleep less is too early in the day." pectively who will have full speak-the night before a morning exam Over nineteen percent of the In other business the Senate ing and voting priviledges. than they do before an evening students said they approved of the unanimously endorsed an amend-Under current regulations, only one. Morning tests also interfered current policy because "there is ment to a Senate proposal that administrators may send their de­with planned activities more often less time to feel pressured" and elected facultv members of Univer-puties as proxies. The proposal than evening tests. 13.09 percent said "the time of day sity bodies (exclusive of depart-will be voted on by the Academic 
is better." Only 5.37 percent said mental committees) be allowed to Council in May.
No strong preference the new policy frees up nights for 
"The results of this study strong­other activities. ly suggest that the opportunity for Conversely. 16.61 percent of the evening examinations should be faculty surveyed said they approved 
,J~f~~Wif:i'N~>.. 
restored," the report stated. "But of the current policy because "it given a lack of a really strong avoids interference with planned \~ AND· ./J ---1.~ 
preference for evening exams to 8 evening activities for both students 
NER A L s --ro .~SN:r·F-A
a.m. exams, it is worthwhile to and faculty." 
~ ,Ji ~-·~~ 
continue the prohibition against Some senate members question­scheduling classes and laboratories ed the validity of the sample, given () Papers ~(·: 11' ../ at 8 a.m. Tuesday and Thurs­the poot response (21.5 percent of 
Pipes and Acces's · 
day." 1400 students surveyed and 46.33 
"However," the report contin­percent of 600 faculty surveyed 113 W. Monroe St. ued, ''a careful study should be returned questionnaires). Commit­So. Bend. made of the impact of continuing to tee member Norman Haaser re­),~ _.:~.~(. 
-' .. ·<-'
use the 8 a.m. time slot for marked "When you consider that ·...... examinations.'' our TV programs are selected by 
Students who disapprove of the tOO to ISO people or something like current early morning exam policy that, this is a pretty big sample. were asked to indicate which of Students who've never had a four reasons best represented their morning exam probably weren't reasoning. Over 4 7 percent of the interested and threw it in the trash 

--=:::-:-~ -----==-. 
~-=== 
----~----­
,_______, ~ ---------. -
----_-­
~ 
-
-
........... ·'""'-·. 
• 

On the date listed below, we'll be q1ving away free samples of Alka-Seltzer on your campus. And that's not all. __,._..., Four of the sample packs we're givmg away will contain $25 winning cerhhcates gcxxi for a $25 prize (books or cash). 
So,lf you re lucky, we'll relieve a few of your financial pains as well. ...AB Only one prize awarded per person... ~prize value $25. No substitution of prizes 
permitted. Original prize certificate must accompany request to claim prize, and 
cannot be mechanically reprcx:iuced. 
Allta-Seltzer' lor UJ'MI llomach Wllh headache • M.l.. Laboralouo..-. Inc e1917 
·--~--••!Yed.1vAP.til .ZQ ~,.;QQpm.~.. North. Dining1~ll~ll ·~·-~.~~-;~~: : 
~~~~-....-..~.;..;..,~~......,,.w....,....,_.-.llili·~·.ii-...: '.:··-....:~u--.~·~~-~~-~-~~.....;·:r~~·-~·~~--~~-~·.i.·~.-.,-~·-..·.-.~:-··-~----~~~·.-··~ 
··;;·.y-:! ..J•c~_. 


• 
I . . . .' 
__ :-*.. ·~ ;­
I 
:--.' 
j 

I I / 
I 
! . 

j 
I 
i ' 
I 
j 
j 
. l 
I 
i
I . I 
I' 

i 
I
/ J I I ' I' 
I
! I' 
7
I . 
I J 
I 
I 
! 
) 

W~'dnesday, April'20, 1977 the observer 11 
ID's to improve next year 
by Joe Slovinec details for the hardware and soft­of the problems were solved and .ware packages,'' which involves pointed out that some students
Staff Reporter 
the use of computers and program­have failed to pick up ID's even ming to produce the ID cards. though they University notified~ Kil announced that there wil1 be students several times.
Notre Dame Student ID's will be 
no embossed meal number on next Kil said that next year the quality
made of a more durable material for the 1977-78 school year, accord­year's ID cards which should of the-ID cards will be of a ing to Assistant Registrar David reduce coordinating problems be­different material that is moreVenus and Mars may be all right tonight; but my dorm 
Kil. tween this office and the dining durable and pliable. These newwindow is not the peephole to Intergalactic wonders. 
halls. cards can stand greater stress with
The ID cards may have a
Where can I view heavenly bodies! 
no problems of cracking. Kil said
magnetic strip during the second 
Next year the dining halls will that students will be notified later
semester for the purpose of admit­
have total charge for their opera­We recom~end the ~ieuwland Hall Observatory. Scale about the using and mechanics oi
ting students to the dining halls. 
tions with admitting students forup four flights, nngs the bell and wait for a the magnetic strip for admission to
Kil also said that the University will 
meals.

"stellarnaut" to come and take yo~ to the observation dining halls in the second semest­
continue to use the same New
deck. It is a fascinating and more restful alternative to York-based company to produce In reference to complaints about er.
the nine o'clock orbit of heavenly bodies in the 
the ID cards. the company's service, Kil saidMemorial Library. 
"We've gone through a year of that the service of the company has Apply now at SU experience with a new company,'' basically been acceptable except 
Kil said. "Even though a lot of for ''the accidental destruction of to be next year'sIs there an altematlve to shuttle bases and the South problems have transpired, •• he one roll of film which created more
Bend PTC system should I return to the Notre Dame added, "the bugs have been work­problems for service-oriented of­Mardi Gras head campus Horatio Alger [rags to riches] fashion! 
ed out and we can get off to a fresh fices, i.e. the Library, the Regist­Anyone interested in applying start and better start next year.'' rar's Office; and the students. for the positioa of Mardi GrasNotre Dame does employ campus chauffeurs to man the 
ID photos will again be taken at During the past year many student Chairman for next year shouldlimousine and two Cadillacs housed in the maintenance registration and Kil pointed out complained about the lateness of contact Student Union Director garage. These are strictly used for University business: that the company already has a receivinR photo ID's. Kil said a lot Tom Gryp at 7757.
public officials, dignataries, notable lecturers, etc., 
"chug and run". All contestants CRICKET OR B C
ILLITERATES TAKE HEED: Locofoco is a coined word 
are asked to pay their $1 I · I I
meaning: 

a] A Spanish insane asylum 
~~r~:.t:~t~o~ta~~n:~~~~c~y 1ri~~; 1 DISPOSABLE LIGHTER.S 1
b] A disco dance step of Fran DeMarco origin 
evemng. The fee can be paid at the
c] a self Hghting cigar 

Student Government Offices, 2nd
d] a specialist in cigarette smoke rings 
sg· 1 
floor LaFortune or after 7 p.m.in I Reg. $1 49 I ­
e] ll slang word for crazy folks, i.e., the person 
room 224 Dillon. For more imorma-~ 
that chums out this column. 
tioncaiiJohnTalbotat1692or-Eric I "th I
Schmittat1738. .._____ WI ~oupon_______ 
__________________..__.._____
,, 
LODGECABINSON-LAKE-MiCH+ 
ClassJ=~.·ed Ads'11 Princ~!ke m~lasagn~=~~~do ~~~'~J~co~~e~~~~~~~:~~K;,I
IGAN FOR RENT by days, week, :anything for you. lfllive. If 1don't --------------­
!/ j

I month.t Only 30 min. from campus. you can have my car watch out for "OB" recommends "THE RODKYG-( '"aras Resort, 15860 Lake Shore ---------------the bricks) I'm wa•·tng for r HORROW 
I

Rd., Union Pier, Mich. (616( · you ______PICTURE_S_HOW.'_'_
I NOTICE _ • Lost: Gold inscribed bracelet. Great pizza. Soon. Please. 469 3298
---------------sentimental value. Reward. Call -Blue Eyes ---You think Beppo or Otto are ugly. I
become a part of N.D. Memorabilia! 

6845. ---------------Take a took')a short one at that) at
I The commemprative shirt: 5 bedroom house, real nice, large · · 
living room and kitchen, fully fum-----------------'--.Warren from, Dave McAlpine and you'll know he I
"M.V.P.: N.D.·U.S.F. 3·5-77". 

-heel Basketball found behind Lyon's Hall Don't you think they should have deserves UMOC. vote McAlpine
Stop by 304 Dillon. 1770.

I 
·•s , close to campus, has burglar . Call 8905,ask for Scott. · omelets instead? Ugly M"'"l.• alarm. Call Charlie Moore 232· -·
7 • LOST: Keys. and detex between mushrooms and cheese --------------­
I Ne-;d-typing?-Ex~ta;;:-l;c-:-~. 180 1 
Grace and Farley Saturday. If ---------------GIRLS!, 
I 
fessional typing service. 10 typists­
found, please call Ann 6781. P. Formalites(esp. from Friendly YOU'VE SEEN ROCKY, SO ONE
various typestyles. Term papers: Summer lease from June 1 to 
---------------and the Bowels), LOOK AT OTTO WILL CONVINCE$.85 page, resumes:$2.00 page. August 25. Near N.D.-4 bedroom Greatest times! Thnks! YOU THAT HE'S GOT TO BE THEI C~232-0898~--------frunished houses. 1 bedroom and 3 "---------------UGLIEST. VOT!: OTTO. ,
bedroom furnished apartments-call WANTED Insomniacs uitel Come out of your --------------=­Niles Auction 802 Fort St. 684-6954 234-2626. daze! Sleep, Ltd. isnow accepting Senior Advisory Council Meeting 'l or 684-4671. Auction every Friday applications. (All ObserverNight Weds. 4:15 Hayes-Healy room 120.
NEED RIDERS TO NORTHWEST+ 
7:30. We buy and sell fumiturem HICKORY VILLAGE Sublease for ERN THIS WEEKEND. CALL Staffers need only snore-noquestons Any i~terested Seniors are invited to I 
CHRIS OF MARY PAT AT ~4~&.
I appliances, antiques, and misc. summer studio apartment. $125 per asked.) Call 4-4235 for further attend. items daily 12-6p.m. month. Call 272-8006 late evenings. --------------­Attention N.D. Professors, swing· info~ati~~---------FOR-1"7.-wHYNOTTHE f
I ---------------(used) are for;;rat;,f.-;t typing:-M;:;:Donoho sets needed LewisNice 3 bedroom house for rent; Uttle One, WORST? 
Hall-Alumni Hotel this summer.
I ~2-~:46:.._Ho~rs-~~:_!~8P~.:_ during summer. Close to Logan Thought I'd send you a personal to OTTO FOR U.M.O.C. (
Contact Suzanna Behnke, ph. 6169
Center. $100 per mo. 259-7488. see how you're doing, roomie 1 ---------------
Dancin' Irish try out clinics start or Alumni office, ph. 7276. 
Maybe 1should speak to Mr. D.?! PAUL, 
f
Sunday, April 24th in LaFortune 

Girls. Rooms for rent in nice house Brent HAPPY LATE BIRTHDAY! Ballroom at 1p.m. Open to N.D. close to Logan Center for summer. SORRY! I
I --------------­
I 
PERSONALS
junior, sophpmore and freshmen 

$50 per mo. 233-2613. To the driver of the yellow volksw ---------------I 
women. Ugly Man is coming. Save your
agen that hit a bicyclist on Notre

Bob "9eauty Sleep" Lynch, 
pennies.
Dame and Angela, I have your

I 1Greyho;nd B.;; toChicago.-Le;-es YOu passed the jelly bean test, 
license. Call Bill 233-3743 --------------­
you are truely a princess.
I 
Main Circle every Friday at 5:45. LOST AND FOUND SIESTA IMPORTS. Onyx, glass and
Bert and Ernie [
Call Tom at 8338 for seat reserva­brass, bone, pottery; chess sets,
WELCOME, HANK!!!

tions. Lost in Women's Lounge (1st floor) bookends, jewelwry, etc. Great LaFortune. Small Opal ring with 2 LOOKING FOR COMPENT TYP+ graduation gifts. 449 Breen-Phillips.
I ---------------Severin, I
gold hearts on both sides. Please ISTS FOR NEXT YEAR'S PRO+ 
Don't try and pretend that you're

1 
FOR RENT retumif found. Call Joan anytime DUCTION STAFF. If interested late for the sky 'cause you're Feeling depressed? N.D...fS.M.C. t6859. please drop a note off at The Hotline. 4-4311 open nights.
saturated, before the deluge.

OBSERVER OFFICE OR GIVE ME 
&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&
For rent for next September: furn­

A CALL: Vote for Alumni Hall's favorite dog:
I Found: Woman's watch near post Did the Anul Explosions poop out or l
ished four bedroom house couple 

KAREN lf2~21f2­
office, Mike 8930. were the Coneheads too high?
blocks from Notre Dame. Phone 

THESE ARE PAID POSITIONS. OTTO FOR U.M.O.C.
277-3604.

I r 
---------------Found: Set of keys, 4th floor Sf, Crest for UMOC. Happy Hour Dear K.S., private 3 room up­
I 
All furnished
Thanks bunches for helping me

Summer rental furnished, four-bed-Ed's Hall, weekend of April 1. Friday 3-6 at the Library. Take a stairs apartment for married grad­f 
room house. $100.00 a month. Initials CHW. Call Tim at 8865. survey the territory. Now can I
chance at winning $100 of Boose.$ uate student. All utulities. Near
survP.y yours?

I Pho~27~604~-------Tig Memorial Hospital. No rent in I
Lost; St. Mary's class ring at Senior 
GRAB THE DODO BEFORE IT return for helping sister and brother
Summer renters wanted: 3 bedroom Formal. Initials are "COB '79 BS". --------------­
GETS AWAY. TO WHOMEVER WISHED TO (H.S.grad.) to and from wheel­I
l house, furnished. Very reasonable, If found, call Colleen ar 284-5720. 
TEACH THE FREE UNIV. COURSE chairs, etc. For more information,I clos~~~mpus~C~2~3626~ 19 bongs Kevin. Happy B-Day! ON COMIC BOOKS, PLEASE please call 232-9128. I
Lost; Black leather gloves near 
Love Bridget, Zlggy and Shannon. CONTACT FREE UNIV. AT 7757.
4 bedrooms furnished aoartment Hayes-Healy. call Debbie 7906.
I 
VERY IMPORTANT! Dr. 456-C,
within walking distance of campus. 
I

YOU SHOULD BE STEPPIN' OUT How's the back? Keep off the
Call william Hill, 232-1724. SUM+ Found; Brown frame glasses with 
AT THE IRISH WAKE SAT. NIGHT Cleo, concrete and get on the sand! Ice onMER OCCUPANCY ONLY. brown leather clip on case in AT STEPAN CENTER. Everytime I hear your sexy voice, the way. (Next it'll be your leg!) I
0'Shag. Call Mary Pat at 6789.
I ---------------my receiver goes wild, and my head the icewoman 
I I
Two bedroom house to rent. 

An Tostal T-Shirts now on sale! gets a busy signal. I I Ill II I 11111111111111111111111
'.Summer and or school year. 1012 

Room 203 Breen-Phillips. Call first, Call me, 
I 
Eddy street. $120 mo. plus utilities. LOST: Black and white Dalmatian
dog, no collar, answers to Princess, 1269 ask for Tina. Bill Call Oddies Harris at 232-8563. in vincinity of ACC, Friday nite 
----------------April15. Reward. 
Rooms for rent this summer. Very B'll B I' B 19 R hreasonable, and just a few blocks ' yer me, RJ ox 4, oc es· from Notre Dame. Phone 277-3604. te~ Indiana~~cal~23-370~days.\ 
~.. 

................ 

year of experience at using theand are not for rent. Now, how successful do you plan cameras.
to be??? 

Kil stated that the University is attempting to put a magnetic strip in, on which will be coded informa­Whom do I call for away game football tickets for next tion for admission to the dining
ye&l'? 

hall. This magnetic strip will not be in effect for the fall semester, butCal~ the ~~C t!cket office (~73~4) and s~cure a place on will be in effect for the spring term.
t~e1r mathng hst.. ~fter pnonty alumm purchase their Kil said "We still have to work outtickets, the remammg ones are open to individuals on the mailing list. It's somewhat simpler than signing away your firstborn male. 
Superstars event 
Who is our Notre Dame beUrlnger? 
registration open 
Contrary to popular myth, neither Quasimodo nor the Th~ deadline for registration forGipper supervise the regular chimes of Sacred Heart the First Annual Notre DameChurch. Brother John W. Disser of 224 Corby Hall is Superstar's Competition has beenthe specter to reach for information, tours, and a extended to Friday, April 22.
"pealling" conversation. A tour of this nature might Contestants will compete in five of be a great diversion from final exams when all wonder eight events: golf, swimming, bas-for whom the bell tolls! 
ketball free-throws, pool, pinball, obstacle course, bike race and 
Class of 1979 All people Interested In serving on next year's Junior Advisory Council should 
submit their names to t_heir hall president by Wednesday, April 20th. Questions? Call Andy McKenna 7181 
MAR-MAIN PHARMACY 426 N. Michigan 
"Park at McDonald's II 
----------------., 
12 the observer Wednesday, April 20, 1977 

'Sweet Sixteen' await further action 
byTonyhce Sports Writer 
As the size of the field of Bookstore Basketball Tourney has decreased, the overall quality of play has improved. This trend continued yesterday as the number of teams remaining in the competi­tion was reduced to the "Sweet Sixteen." 
The number one-rated and de­fending champion TILCS were involved in a game that went down to the wire. The TILCS fell behind early to Dobie's Pinchers, but rallied to defeat them 21-17. Dave Batton, who shot eight of eleven, and Joe Montana, who shot five of ten, both pleased the overflow Bookstore crowd with dunks. John Dubenetzky added seven tallies. 
In a game played at Stepan Center, the "Cinderella" Nutmeg­ger team continued its winning ways with a 21-16 victory over the Oblivian Express. Mike Howard led the winners with 9 baskets and Tim Kardock added 5. The Meyer brothers, Mike and Mark, had seven rebounds apiece to aid the winning effort. Kevin Shire topped the losers score sheet with seven tallies. 
Mike SholJ recorded 11 field goals and 4 free throws for a total of 15 baskets in a losing effort as Scrupes and the Pink Deekes dropped a 21-19 decision to Studley Mike and the Rest. Jeff Causey led the winners with nine baskets. 
Mac and His Fries 'struggled to defeat the Heartbreak Kids, 21-19. Steve "Big Mac" McDan­iels had 11 baskets and 17 re­bounds for the winners, while Tim Shea had 8 scores and Steve Orsini five for the losers. 

The 300 Percent Oub defeated the Quarters 22-20 in overtime. This game featured a match of Jim Browner against Willard Browner. Willard had the best of the early play, outscoring Jim 11-3, but Jim had the last laugh as he flipped in the game's winning shot. 
In one of the easier games of the day, third ranked Average White Team ran Edmund Price and the Sloppy Seconds by a 21-10 count. Bill Paterno and Rusty Lisch had six baskets apiece in the winning effort. Dan Frailey and Jim Dragn'a tied for the losers scoring honors with three tallies. 
At the tournament's namesake, LAW breezed past I Phelta Thi, 21-10. Jeff Carpenter and Dana Snoap had eight and seven baskets res·pectively for LAW. Snoap, incidentaJly, was seven of eight from the field. Greg Marx also played a fine all around with eleven rebounds and two blocked shots. John Kennedy scored five times for the losers. 
Ebony Magic also had an easy game, defeating the Drawer Drop­pers, 21-12. Toby Knight was nine of thirteen, including a two-handed rebound slam. Luther Bradley had five baskets, the most aesthetic of which was a two-handed break­away dunk. Brian Killane played a fine game for the losers with four scores. Tim Kelly was also credited with four, one of them courtesy of a Toby Knight tip-in. 


I 
I 
. 
r 
'·· 
The Exceptions lived up to their  scoring nine times and grabbing a  and 12 rebounds.  Bill Seeger and  
nickname as they shot 60 percent to  tournament  record  18  rebounds.  Dave Huffman had five  and four  
defeat the  Deuces  handily,  21-7.  Hanzlik was nine of seventeen on  scores respectively for the winners.  
John Vellutato, Chris Fabian, Jim  the day, includingthree successive,  Seton  Hall  Prep  product,  Jim  
Kelly  and  Bob  Kennedy  all  had  ; rim-rattling, one-handed, slam  McMenamin,  had six baskets for  
four  or  more  buckets  for  the  · dunks.  Paul  Peihle  had  five  the losers.  


Bookstore Basketball action moves into the fifth round as the "Sweet Sixteen" compete in an eight game line-up scheduled at the Bookstore Courts. [Photo by Paul Clevenger] 
winners.  No one on the winning  baskets for the Doobs.  All games from this point on will  
team shot below SO percent.  The number four-ranked Butcher  be played on the Bookstore Courts,  
Though several players had out- Brothers had a tough time elirninat­ beginning  with  this  afternoon's  
standing performances, the best of  ing the East Street Band, 21-19.  A  regional  semi-final  action.  For  
the day  must be credited  to Bill  large crowd  on  the  Lyons  courts  exact  times  of particular  games,  
Hanzlik.  He led the Chumps to a  saw  Bruce Flowers lead the But- see the schedule that appears  on  
21-10  victory  over  the  Doobs  by  chers Brothers with  nine baskets  today's sports page. 

Pa u I S tevenson ·=========================================================================================================================================~===========================================================: 
Bookstore B-ball 

The Bookstore Basketball Ebony Magic vs. Mac and ms Percent Club attack. However, entrants have reached the "Sweet Fries: their threat against A WT will not Sixteen," and a full slate of Toby Knight, Luther Bradley and be enough. A WT has been denied contests are scheduled for action Dan Knott comprise the bulk of the victory twice in the Bookstore late this afternoon. All of the Ebony Magic attack. Knight found finals. The 300 Percent Club will hardcourt battles will be played on the range on nine of his 13 attempts not be much of an obstacle for the Bookstore Courts. in yesterday's competition. In A WT as they try to advance to the 
Competition throughout the addition, Knight also hauled in 13 ''Elite Eight.'' Give the tilt to AWT tournament has been intense. Yet, rebounds. by six. most of the expected finalists have Steve McDaniels tallied 11 points . reached their destination with only and secured 17 caroms in the latest LAW vs. Guys and DoUs: a few upsets. win for Mac and His Fries. Yet, · Jeff Carpenter hit eight buckets, 
Choosing a Bookstore Champion even with the combined talent of while law student and semi-pro at this point is at the very least, McDaniels, Terry Moriarity and Ed ballplayer Dana Snoap connected difficult. However, an attempt will Sharkey, the big Mac's attack will on seven of eight to send LAW into be made to chose today's victors. not be enough to defeat Ebony the "Sweet Sixteen." Greg Marx After a great amount of delibera­Magic. Toby Knight's squad was dominates the boards as his most tion, here are the picks for eliminated in the ''Sweet Sixteen'' recent 11 carom effort indicates. tonight's Bookstore battles: last year, but his team will not Jim Singer and Mike Penvchiette 
repeat that performance. Ebony tallied seven and nine points Tn.CS vs. Stevie Wonder and the Magic will emerge victorious 21-18. respectively for Guys and Dolls Deadeyes: yesterday. Greg Garcia, who 
Irish eager, Dave Batton, heads played in the finals three years ago
Mo Fandsome Five vs. The
this returning championship for Heil's Hoops, adds to the Guys
Chumps:

squad. The hardcourt star con­and Dolls threat. ·Just as justice is 
Who is the Mo Fandsome Five?
nected for eight buckets in their always served in the end, LAW
Well, for the second consecutive
latest victory, while teammates shall overcome the Guys and Dolls
year, this five some has reached the
John Dubenetzky and Joe Montana 21-13.
"Sweet Sixteen." Rick Connor
added seven and five buckets 
paces the Mo Fandsome Five
respectively. The Exceptions vs. B.F., H.R. and
attack. The 6-1 sophomore has
John Hahn led Stevie Wonder the Milk Duds:
connected on 25 of 33 attempts in
and the Deadeyes yesterday, hit­S.W.A.T. squad member, Chris
the 1977 Bookstore Basketball
ting seven of 11. Pat Holmes and Fabian, along with John Vellutato,
competition. Ron Polidori added
Steve Brown each chipped in four Jim Kelly and Bob Kennedy
six buckets and pulled down eight
tallies. However, the returning combined for a balanced Exception
rebounds in their latest conquest.
champs will be too overwhelming attack. The quartet scored four,
The Chumps are led by Irish
for the Stevie Wonder quintet to four, six and five points respec­
eager Bill Hanzlik and Torn
handle. TILCS will advance to the tively in yesterday's competition.
Sudkamp. Hanzlik dropped in nine 
"Elite Eight" via a 21-15 victory. B.F., H.R. and the Milk Duds
buckets in yesterday's victory while 
were upset victors over Boogie
capturing a tournament high 18
The Butcher Brothers vs. The Fever, 21-19. Tim O'Neil and Jim
rebounds. The Mo Fandsorne Five
Nutmeggen: Martin each tallied six buckets in
boast three players under S-9, with
This battle will highlight the the victory. However, The Excep­
the other two starters towering at
day's competition. The Butcher tions will be too much for the Milk
6-1 and 6-2. The Chumps should
Brothers were defeated in their Dud crew to tackle. Give the
dominate the boards, yet, Mo
sectional game last year by this contest to Chris Fabian and
Fandsome Five will give them a
tough Nutmegger team. The company 21-18.
hard-fought battle. The Chumps
Nutmeggers reached the final four 1 will be victorious 21-17. 
1

in the 1976 tournament, only to be Studley Mike and the Rest vs. 
eliminated by Average White Dynamo Hum: Team. : Average White Team vs. The 300 The Studley Mike attack was led 
Mike Howard hit nine of 13 to : Percent Oub: yesterday by Jeff Causey. Causey advance The Nutmeggers to the , Bill Paterno and Rusty Lisch contributed nine buckets in the "Sweet Sixteen." Together with i each tallied six buckets in yester­victory. brother combo Mark and Mike i day's contest which advanced them Dan Winder, Dean Callan and Meyer, The Nutmeggers will give ' to "Sweet Sixteen." Mike Vanaker John Mazza combined for 18 points Bruce Flowers and company an : and Mike Banks added five and in Dynamo Hums battle yesterday. intense contest. However, the 1 four points respectively to the A WT · This is a most difficult decision, as 
• I

Notre f'ame cage star plus Dave : v1ctory. 1 scouting reports were not available Huffmau: and Bill Seeger will lead 
Tim Healy chalked-up eight on these two squads. However, The Butcher Brothers onto further 
tallies in yesterday's competition Dynamo boasts a balanced scoring ; Bookstore action. The Nutmeggers 
for The 300 Percent Club. Grid star threat. Thus, give the contest to will fall short by five buckets. 
Jim Browner adds to The 300 1 Dynamo Hum, 21-18. 


Bookstore Tourney 


'Our usiness? 

The Maryknollers ... a worldwide mission group 
of priests, Brothers and Sisters working to alleviate spiritual and material ills in Third World countries. 

Maryknoll Missioners take care oft~ 


Performing a range of spiritual and corporal works wherever they are as­signed, Maryknoll missioners recognize and try to take care of their peoples' human needs. None is more important than their need to know God and the ultimate meaning this gives to human life on earth. 
Just what is yourFatherS business? 
Christians who recognize God as their Father, Jesus His Son as both their Savior and their brother, and people everywhere as their brothers and sisters, know that the happiness and salvation of every human being is their Father's business. 
For young Catholic men and women in their college years, one exciting way of going into this business is to become a Maryknoll missioner. Maryknollers labor in 22 developing countries, helping the people in these countries realize their full dignity and potential as chil­dren of the one Father, God. 
Maryknoll is permanent commitment 
Young men and women who become Maryknoll priests, Brothers and Sisters make a lifetime, celibate 
1:' 
------~-­

~eirFather's business in 22countries. 

How are Maryknollers prepared for their work? 
Candidates for the priesthood and most candidates for the Sisterhood must be college graduates. For the Brotherhood, two years of college or experience and skill in a trade are required before entry. 
Young men and women admitted for training as Maryknoll missioners have varied preparation depend­ing upon the branch of the mission apostolate they choose. In general, however, all are given the benefit of carefully planned orientation, theological education and overseas mission training to prepare for careers as effective, durable missioners. Length of training time for all candidates averages about five years. 
More specific and detailed information about the orientation and education of priests, Brothers and Sisters will be sent in response to the card below. 
How can YOU decide whether you should become a Maryknoller? 
There are probably as many answers as there are indi­vidual Maryknoll missioners. Some are deeply moved when they hear of babies dying in their mothers' arms because of hunger or disease. Others are distressed by the growing antagonism and separation between the rich and the poor nations. More are concerned about the great injustices that have been inflicted upon the poor. Others look to learn from peoples who have grown up with a different mentality than their own. 
All feel that the only solution to the crises that threaten to split men asunder is the love of God as shown in the life of His Son, Jesus Christ. This love of God urges us to be missioners so all can come to love one another as children of the same Father. 
What could be your reason for joining Maryknoll? 
Mail this card for more information about the life and traini1lg of Maryknoll Missioners. 

SP7 

DIRECTOR OF ADMISSIONS 
Maryknoll Missioners • Maryknoll, N.Y. 10545 Dear Father: Please send me information about becoming a Maryknoll D priest D Brother D Sister. 
Name______________________ 
Address_______________________ 
City________State ___Zip Code_____ Age___Phone_______Ciass________ College___________ Year of Graduation___ 

-~------------------------­
....--------------------------
Maryknoll
Missioners... 
will welcome generous new 
co-workers in Africa, Latin 
America and the Orient. 
Maryknoll priests, Brothers and Sisters already at work are trying to clarify and deepen the sign of Christ's love in other lands. Their goal is to awaken a hope for Christ in other people-to instill a confidence in local leadership to search for ways of opening up the community to the Holy Spirit by the strength and love they inspire. Their tran­sient role is a symbol of the pilgrim Church moving through the world. 
This is not an easy task, and many more generous young Americans are needed to accomplish it. Mission work is varied and changing because it is creative and human. Although it is a work as old as Christianity, the good missioner must be open to new possibilities of carrying it out. A deep faith and a capacity to love are necessary to live the life of a Maryknoller. If you have such faith and love, or feel you can develop them, Maryknoll is inter­ested in you! 
D 
For more information, 
mail this postage-free 
reply card today. 
FIRST CLASS Permit No. 1 Maryknoll, N.Y. 
BUSINESS REPLY MAIL 
No Postage Stamp Necessary if mailed in the United States 
Postage will be paid by ­

the maryknoll :m.issioners 
Maryknoll, New York 10545 






