

The Observer 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's Vol. XI, No. 122 Friday, April 29, 1977 
On Human Rights 
Hauser speaks at symposium 

by Kate Flynn Staff Reporter 

Addressing the topic of the First World idealogy of human rights, Rita E. Hauser. former US delegate to the United Nations Commission on Human Rights said, "It is only when the basic political and civil rights are secured that a country should begin to address other needs which are essentially econ­omic and social in nature." 
Hauser opened the afternoon session of the Human Rights Symposium which dealt with the conflicting idealogies of human rights in the First, Second and Third Worlds. Rev. Joseph Gre­million of Notre Dame chaired the afternoon session in the Center for Continuing Education. 
Hauser cited the first world's emphasis of human rights on liberty of the ind:vidual, his rights to physical security and intellectual beliefs as contrasting with the Second World socialistic states' emphasis on social and economic rights. "To assure liberty of the person a state must necessarily be restricted by law, and such states are the hallmark of the First World," said Hauser. 
She defined the First World as being essentially the US, Western Europe. Australia, New Zealand and economically advanced count­ries with liberal governments. Sec­ond World countries include the socialistic states of Eastern Europe and the Soviet Union. 
It is not acceptable affirmative defense in such instances as the military junta of Greece and the dictatorships of Spain and Portugal to plead that economic or social conditions are advanced under such rule, according to Hauser. ''All actions of the states working without the consensus of the gov­erned, no matter how beneficiary they may be in certain realms, are illegitimate and need not pe obey­ed," she stated. 
Hauser said that the trade union movement is an established ele­ment of social bargaining between those who afford social and econ­omic security and those who do not. ''The Trade union movement has made it an easy leap in the West to demands which only the state can provide, such as disability insur­ance, unemployment insurance and retirement benefits,'' said Hauser. 
The most difficult problem of the First World according to Hauser is that not all citizens may enjoy protection afforded by law to the same degree. She cited ethnic, racial and religious minorities as often deprived of the full exercise of their rights. She reminded that only in recent years has the US adopted legislation to ensure uni­versal suffrage. In speaking of such state intervention for political free­dom Hauser said, "A delicate balance is required between state intervention for political purposes and the assurance to every citizen that his liberty will not be diminish­ed to an unacceptable degree." 
Hauser said that human rights ia the First World will always be defined by political and civil rights, with economic and social rights as only secondary and derivative. "A developed nation in the economic and social sense which practices authoritarianism is a suspect mem­ber of the First World. its creden­tials lacking," claimed Hauser. 
Hauser used the People's Re­public of China as an example of an undemocratic country which is 
backwards in many respects, al­though it has advanced somewhat through the coercion of its citizens. "Freedom," she concluded, "is conducive to human development, and it is in this respect that the First World nations have excell­ed." 
A distinguished attorney, Haus­er received her education at Har­vard Straussburg University, New York University, and the University of Paris. She has served as the US delegate to the United Nations several times and in 1975 partici­pated in the First Women's confer­ence in Mexico. She served as the League of Women's Voters repre­sentative to the Presidential de­bates in 1976, for which she won the Peabody Award. 
Reddaway Speech 

Peter B. Reddaway, senior lec­turer from the LOndon School of Economics and Political Science, presented a "Second World View" which focused on the Soviet Union 
· to outline the practice of human rights in all the Marxist-Leninist countries. Speaking of the Soviet Union's attitude toward human rights Red­daway said, "It has been the general policy of the Soviet Union to try to appear liberal in signing 
international agreements concern­ing human rights. but then to maneuver vigorously to ensure that it is never held to account under any of them ... 
Reddaway described the loose "umbrella" movement of the art­
ists, writers, film-makers and his­torians in the Soviet Union who are concerned with issues like worker's rights, legal rights and law reforms the abuse of ·psychiatry and with humanitarian aid to prisoners of conscience and their relatives. 
He said the most important method used in gaining publicity for these people is the Chronicle, an unofficial typescript issued by the new movement since this year has been proclaimed International Human Rights Year by the United Nations. Written appeals to foreign organizations or information given to foreign journalists, Reddaway said, is broadcast back to the Soviet Union where, despite official jamming, it is widely heard. 
Freedom of press, speech and association is a prominant issue for the Soviet rights groups, according to Reddaway. The Soviet Constitut­ion which guarantees these free­doms only "in accordance with the interests of the working people and fot: the purpose of strengthening socialist order," often works a­gainst dissenters, noted Redda­way. 
In speaking of the freedom of movement for traveling or for emigrating, Reddaway cited the Jewish and the German emigration movements as especially subject to 
[contloued on page 2] 

SU directors settle Cinema 77 dispute 
b\·Timl..ew StJdr Reporter 

Members of the Student Union Board of Directors and members of Cinema 77 met last night and real·hed tentative agreement on the future of motion pictures on the Notre Dame campus. 
Both sides agreed to a plan forwarded by Student Union Comp­troller. Colleen McGrath. The bask points of the plan include increas­ing the number of open dates for campus orl!anizations to show from 
12 to IS movies The Cinema Series would remain intact, and would offer six free films on Sunday nights. while both the Student Union Services Commis­sion and the Cinema Series would cooperate on the films to be shown on the remaining dates, reserved by the Services Commission. 
Under the new Student Union Film Commission, headed by Bon­nk Bona. all tht.• movies to be shown would be ordered by the film l·ommissioner to o\·ercome the lal·k of coordination between the differ­ent groups. 
Student Union Direl'tor, Tom Gryp. regrt.'tted all the misunder­standing and the emotion that l'haral'terized the dispute between the Student union and the Cinema SeriL•s. Basit.:allv. he said the problem was a lal·k of communica­tion behn-en the parties. which was fortunately resolved in the session last night. 
It had been announced at a Cinema film on Tuesday night that Gryp was trying to get rid of the Cinema program. Gryp pointed out that this was entirely a misconl·ept­ion on the part of some people who had not been informed of the Student Uni.ln's real plans. At thl· meeting last night the confusion was resolved and the interested parties left satisfied, informed that there definitely will be a Cinema 7t! next semester. 


Purdue students scalp commencement tickets 
hy Drew Bauer Senior Staff Reporter 
A situation that may soon be repeated at Notre Dame as senior graduation approaches is sweeping Purdue University. Students every­where are scalping tickets to the commencement ceremonies. 

"People are paying all kmds ot money for these tickets," senior Cathy Amato said Tuesday, "I have been fortunate enough to get some extra tickets for free. But there are people who have paid up to $40 for four of them. 
The Purdue student newspaper carries advertisements and campus bulletin boards sprout notices re­questing extra tickets. "Desperate­ly need four tickets,'' said a classified ad. Another listed a long­distance telephone number and asked any senior willing to part with tickets to call collect and negotiate the pricc.'' 
Ads have yet to appear in The Observer, but one student govern­ment official expects some ads "will appear soon. There have been some tickets sold at about $10 each, but I expect that a lot will be sold next week when the tickets are distributed.'' 
One ND senior couldn't belif;ve that some Domers were scalping tickets. "They speak about being good Christians, but they really only care about money. If they weren't hypocrites, they would turn their extra tickets in so that other seniors could use them.'' 
Another senior said that he needed tickets for his parents, four brothe-rs, two sisters, and a grand­mother who is "only living so that she can see me graduate from Notre Dame. Who should I decide should stay home?" The senior blamed Fr. Theodore Hesburgh, University President, for the situa­tion, and the student added that he would probably advertise to buy tickets. 
The limited amount of Notre Dame commencement tickets re­sulted from the size of the senior class, 2177, the largest in Notre Dame history, and the increased interest expected because of Presi­dent Carter's presence. 
Several seniors organized a peti­tion drive to move the exercises from the ACC to the football stadium, and presented signatures to Fr. Hesburgh. Hesburgh then turned down the request saying that a change of plans would "probably not be acceptable to the Secret Service" and Carter due to the increased security problems that the stadium would present. 
The situation at Purdue stems from the snail capacity of Elliot Hall of Music, where the exercises are held. Each senior receives four 
free tickets from the University. 
NO seniors receive five tickets. 
while post-baccalaureate graduates 
receive four. 
With 6,500 degree candidates alone this year. and only o.OOM seats in Elliot Hall. Purdue has arranged three separate com­mencement exercises. 

"We were embarrassed last year," said Purdue Registrar Nel­son Parkhurst. "because several parents and friends of graduates could not get into the hall. Some viewed the ceremony on closed circuit television ·in another build­ing. Years ago students thought commencement was for the birds,'' Parkhurst added, ''but now more and more of them want to go through with it, many because their parents want to see them graduate." 
Students who sell their tickets 
because they have no need for 
them do so "on the same principle 
that ticket scalpers at concerts do,'' 

said Purdue student body president 
Mike Jackson. "If there's a de­
mand for someth:r.g, it's a way to 
make a dollar. I don't think the vast 
majority of students would take 
advantage of others, but there are 
some that do.'' 
As far as selling tickets goes, "we let the free enterprise system prevail,'' commented one Purdue official. 

Graduation tickets to be distributed 
As announced previously, tickets for the University's 132nd Com­mencement Ceremony will be dis­tributed to members of the May 1977 graduating class begining Monday, May 2, and extending through Friday, May 6 from 8 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. in the Office of the Registrar, Room 215 Administra­tion Building. 
Each graduate is entitled to two adjacent, reserved tickets in the arena, with the location of the seats determined by lottery. These tick­ets will be reserved in each graduate's name. Each graduate must pick up his/her allotment of tickers in person upon presentation of the student ID .card. In addition, each graduate will be requested to indicate the number of upper arena seats up to his/her maximum allotment; baccalaureate degree recipient three, advanced degree recipient two. Even though these upper arena tickets do not desig­nate a specific location, seating is assured. Degree recipients who prefer all their tickets in the upper section will be accommodated. 
Each graduate is urged to pick up only the actual number of tickets he/she needs so that other 2fadu­
[coatlnaecl oa paae 2] 

the observer Friday, April 29, 1977, 


-On Campus Today-----... 
friday, april 29 
12:15 p.m. 
4:30p.m. 
5:15p.m. 7 p.m. 
7 p.m. 7, 9:30 & 
11:45 p.m_. 8 p.m. 
8:30p.m. 
11 p.m. 
travelogue, "a botanist in san francisco" by ted crovello, sponsored by the bio. dept., rm. 278 galvin. 
colloquim, "sylo subgroups of finite groups'; by prof. george glauberman, univ. of chicago, sponsor­ed by the math dept., rm. 226 ccmb. 
mass and dinner, bulla shed 
bible study, "how can a loving god permit evil and suffering in the world," by campus crusade for christ, library lounge 
concert, classical guitar by jeff noonan, howard hall. 
movie, "return of the pink panther," starring peter sellers, sponsored by sociology club, eng. aud. 
musical, "fiddler on the roof," sponsored by nd-smc theatre, smc o'laughlin aud. tix $2.50, students and staff $2. 
sixth annual civil rights lectures, "the helsinki agreement and human rights" by a.h. robertson, univ. of paris, held in conjunction with the human rights symposium, cce aud. 
nazz, brian mchale, jim murray, and paul kruse. 
saturday, april 30 
9 a.m.­12 p.m. 
10 a.m. 
1:30 p.m. 
7, 9:30, & 
11:45 p.m. 
8 p.m. 
bicycle ride to barron lake, meet at library circle 
parade, annual rotc awards ceremony and parade, address by radm, albert m. sackett, adjacent stepan center. 
football, blue and gold game, stadium. advance tickets: $2.50, under 17-$1. at the gate: $3, under 17-$1.50. 
movie, "return of the pink panther, starring peter sellers, sponsored by sociology club, eng. aud. 
musical, "fiddler on the roof," sponsored by nd-smc theatre, smc o'laughlin aud. tix $2.50, students and staff $2. 
sunday, may 1 -~ 
1 30-4 p.m. 
3 j).m. 7 p.m. 7 p.m. 
·, 

7:30 & 
10:30 p.m. B..p.m. 
8 p.m. 
8:15p.m. 
smc spring open house, tours, ice cream social and art sale, smc campus. 
recital, cheryl pesdan, junior voice recital, smc little theatre. 
may day devotions begin, rosary and benediction, grotto. 
meeting, final general cila meeting of the year, refreshments following, haggar aud. 
movie, "the seduction of mimi" by lina wertmuller, cinema 77, eng. aud. 
lecture, "abortion" by dr. charles e. rice, sponsored by nd-smc life, library aud. 
foreign film series, "cleo from 5 to 7" by agnes 
verda,  sponsored by  nd-smc theatre,  smc  carroll  
hall.  
recital,  graduate  percussion  recital  by  james  

catalano, sponsored by music dept. crowley recital room. 
WeatherWeatherWeather 
Today will be sunny and cool with a high in the upper SO's. Temperatures tonight will drop into the low 40's. Saturday will by sunny and warmer with a high around 70. 



Graduation tickets to be distributed 
[continued from page 1] _ Additional tickets and the proce· ates needing adaitional tickets dure for procuring them will be possibly may be accommodated in indicated either in the telephoned the fairest manner. Those who wish or mailed message. 
additional tickets, should they be 
aval.lable, are requested to com­plete the yellow questionnaire card at the time they pick up their t:ckets. 
Any tickets remaining as of 5 
p.m. Friday, May 6 will be assign-. ed by lottery to tho_se who have 
completed the yellow question­naire. Those graduates who have been randomly selected will be . notified by telephone, or if contact' cannot be made, notices will be 
mailed to their local address no 
The Observer is published Monday 
through Friday and weekly during the summer session, except during the exam and vacation periods The Observer is published by students of the University of Notre Dame and St Mary's College Subscriptions 
may be purchased for $20 per year($10 per semester} from The Obser­ver. Box Q, Notre Dame. Indiana 46556 Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction
right'> are reserved 
On Human Rights 


Symposium contillues 
[continued from page 1] Soviet sensitivity. he called Soviet 
1laws and constitution "restrictive" in these cases to prevent direct involvement of foreign govern­ments in applying diplomatic and other pressures. He said religious freedoms are often denied to citizens in Soviet courts by two vaguely formulated articles of the Criminal Codes. Reddaway listed these freedoms as permission to print or import Bibles free communication with co-reli­gionists abroad and training e· nough clergy in freely run seminar­ies. 
As for China, Reddaway admitt· ed that outside observers can be sure of very little. He quoted a recent statement of a Chinese official which he considel's similar to several Soviet statements: ·'China is a country where human rights are best observed. Over 95 
*The Observer 
Thursday Night's last Stand! 
Night Editor: John Calcutt 
sst. Night Editors: Debbie 1ahrling, Rosemary Mills 
layout Staff: Drew Bauer, Marti Hogan, Vickie Blankert, Rosd­leen Muench, Bob Brink, Todd 
orrow, Chris Inglese, Wilson Futrell, Kelly Puryedr, Paul Schappler, Tom Eder Editorial layout: Maureen Flynn Sports layout: Tony Pace Features layout: Dave O'Keefe, Drew Bauer Typists: Gwen Coleman, Mar McCormick, Stephanie Urillo, Leigh Tunakan Night Controller: Sue Shellen­barger Day Editor: Jack Silhavy Copy Reader: Bob Varettoni Photographer: Leo Hansen 
INDIANA MOTOR BUS TOURS 
We go where you say! Have more fun with us on aCHARTER BUS 
e MORE FUN FOR YOUR GROUP 
e ARRANGE YOUR DEPARTURE AND RETURN TO SUIT YOUR CONVENIENCE 
• 234-2196 

per cent of the population enjoy human rights, and the other five per cent, if they are receptive to reeducation can also enjoy human rights.'' Five per cent of the Chinese people approximates forty million people, noted Reddaway. 
Reddaway, who specialized in Russian studies, studied at Har· vard and the University of Moscow. He has servtd on the Board of the Study of Religion and Communism and in 1964 served on the Board of Amnesty International. His three books arc The Movement in the USSR, Russia's Political Hospitals and An Ameri­can Version of Psychiatric Terror. 
Amin Not a Norm 

''True, Amin is said to have ordered the execution of many people; some by having their heads pounded into pulp and others by having pieces of their anatomy cut and cooked. If that is so, that would single Amin out even more from his African peers. Amin his orac­
page 11] 

Support the Nazz Benefit Concerts for Logan Center!!! 
Next week (May 2-7) 50 r cents nazz (basement ofIa fortune) The Nazz guarantees an excellent show 
FRIDAY-I :1~-Y:JO 
SAT-SUN 
2:00-4:30-7:15-9:45 


ATTENTION! SOPHOMORES 
Place your ring order before you leave 
for Summer Vacation. This will.assure you of having it when you.. return to school in the faii­I~OURS: 9:00 A.M. TO 4:30 ·P.M.. MON.-FRI. IN THE OFFICE ON THE FIRST -FLOOR 
Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore 
later -.than .W.e.dP.e.~>Pl:\-X, .Ma,.v_.J.lv•..L!:~:::~=----_j~.,.~~,-,~~~~~~~~~~W.~~!llot~~W'!~~..,..._.,......,._,.,.._...II'IIIIIIII,_-.,.........._,.. 
In Danehy case 
Notre Dame attorneys move for dismissal 
by Joan Fremean Senior Staff Reporter 

Attorneys Thomas L. Murray and Phillip J. Faccenda, represent­ing the University in the Professor James Danehy retirement case, recently filed a Response to Plain­tiff's Complaint to the Starke County CircuitCourtin Knox, In. In the reply, the defendant moved to dismiss the case on the grounds that the plaintiff (Danehy) failed to state a claim, thus failing to comply with an Indiana trial rule of procedure. 
The only cause of action not included in the dismissal motion is Danehy's complaint tllat on or about February 15, 1077, an offer to teach an intensive 10-week course in organic chemistry during this summer, a position which he accepted in Dec.l976 prior to taking court action, was denied him. 
Under the rule of procedure in question it states "A motion to dismiss is the usual and proper method of testing the legal suffic­iency of the cilmplaint. '' 
"A (complaint) may be dismiss­ed on the motion if clearly without; any merit; and this want of merit may consist in an absence of law to support a claim of the sort made, of facts sufficient to make a good claim, or in the disclosure of some fact which will necessarily defeat the claim,'' the motion continues. 
The document cites a case simil­
ar to the Danehy case, H. Michael 
Lewis v. Salem Academy and 
College, to support its motion. 
As in the Salem Case, Danehy, according to the defendant's mo-­tion, is "a college professor who enjoyed tenure under a written contract which incorporated as a part theteof a faculty handbook or guide, which instrument contained retirement provisions." 
The Salem provisions are "strik­ingly similar to the retirement provisions of Article III Section 10 of the Notre Dame Faculty Hand­book . . . acknowledged by the plaintiff as an integral part of the written contract entered into be­tween him and the University;" 
The contract states that a profes­sor "ordinarily retires and becomes emeritus" on July first following his 65th birthday, and that active service is continued after that date on a year-to-year appointment. 
One of Danehy's complaints maintains that the phrase "ordin­arily retires on the first day of July after his 65th birthday" is ambig­uous and vague. 
To this the University replies that this is an "unwarranted de­ductipn and inference,'' ignoring the "dictionary definition of the word 'ordinary,' which is defined as: 1. to be expected. Routine. Normal." 
"Further,'' the document con­
tinues, ''the courts have defined 
'ordinarily' as meaning 'according 
to· established order; methodical; 
regular; customary, as the ordinarv 

Griff to celebrate mass at Grotto 
The University Chaplain, Fr. Robert Griffin will celebrate a mass at the grotto on Monday, May 2 at 7 
p.m. The mass will be said to commemorate the beginning of May, the month of Our Lady. The Glee Oub will perform and all members of the University are invited. 
Student art show to open May 1 
Sunday will mark the opening of 
the biggest student art show of the 
year at the ISIS Gallery in the old 
field house. The show will run 
through May 14. 
Five student art majors will be 
featured in diverse media. Tht: 
students are William GodelleiReis, 
Micheal Cantwell, Billy Hassell, 
Stephen Spretnjak , and Peter 
Woodhouse Richards. The showing 
is open to the public free of cllarge._ 
forms of law or justice; commmi; usual." 
The University maintains that the plaintiff "ignores or forgets his own understanding of his coming retirement, pursuant to University policy and his own April 23, 1976 request for his first year-to-year appointment made approximately one year ago, and more than one, year before his coming retirement date of July 1, 1977." 
The phrasing of Article III Sec­tion 5 of the Faculty Handbook is also cause for dispute. Danehy's complaint states "Under the terms of his contract of April10, 1972, the plaintiff accepted the rank and title of Professor with Tenure, which is defined by and in that contract as permanence of contract in the sense that it may be terminated only for cause." 

To this complaint the University submits that Danehy picks up the phrase "permanence of appoint­ment" as a definition oftenure, but "ignores the last sentence of that definition (in the Faculty Hand­book) which states: 'Tenure is granted only in writing, in a contract or letter of appointment.'' 
"That the single word, contin­ucus" the defendant cites from the Lewis case, (permanence in Dane­by's complaint), "in the context in which it appeared amounted to an offer of continuous employ-ment on any terms or for any period beyond that expressly covered by the document in which the word appear­ed, is an unwarranted conclusion drawn by the plaintiff. Such a conclusion is not taken as admitted in considering the defendant's motion." 

Danehy's complaint that his contract "is of an unspecified expiration date" also ignores Arti­de III Sectio" 10 of the Faculty Handbook and is an "unwarranted conclusion," the motion asserts. 
Other Allegations 

In the remaining portions of Danehy's complaint, the defense continued, the plaintiff "makes various pleas, insinuations, argu­ments; and states irrelevancies, unwarranted factual deductions a.Rd conclusions of law which ignore the expressly covered terms of the contractual documents, not the least of which is his repeated and unfounded assertion that he is being 'dismissed for serious,' per­suant to Section 6 of Article III of the Faculty Handbook." 
This section proposes that the University reserves the right to ' terminate the services of any faculty member for serious cause, "defined as dismissal for one of the following reasons: dishonesty, pro-i fessionalincompetence or continu­
' ed neglect of academic duties, regulations, or responsibilities, conviction of a felony, continued serious disrespect or disregard for the Catholic character of this institution, or causing notorious and public scandal." The plaintiff's complaints which were referred to as irrelevant include Danehy's plea that he "has 
'i not been given any notice stating 
: reasons for his termination of ' 1 employment, nor has (he) been l afforded any opportunity to be heard before any impartial forum at ![condoned on page 10] 

'F·.~---,. . '· : '
''G''-E"'-TT· ..-N.···,;Gi-
.-H-H·-··_,---RE''
.. ·,,I--­

·. ' 
-. . . . 
-. ... . --. . -~~-·: . ' 

TODAY'S GENERATION IS ON THE GO, THERE ARE PLACES TO GO -THINGS TO SEE. BE IT THE EVERYDAY DRIVE TO WORK 
OR SCHOOL, OR TO THE "GET AWAY FROM IT ALL" DRIVES TO THE DISCOS, SPORTS EVENTS, OR THOSE SPECIAL 
RELAXING SPOTS AROUND THE COUNTRY. TODAY'S GENERATION IS ON THE MOVE, SO IS TODAY'S NOVA. WE HERE AT GENERAL MOTORS FEEL THE NOV A IS A DEPENDABLE CAR THAT OFFERS YOU THE ROOM AND ECONOMY TO GET YOU WHERE YOU ARE GOING. WE HAVE WORKED HARD TO MAKE THE 
1977 NOVA A CAR THAT IS RUGGED, RELIABLE, AND LOW-PRICED. WE HAVE ADDED A HIGH ENERGY IGNITION SYSTEM, A DELCOTRON 
GENERATOR WITH A BUILT-IN SOLID STATE REGULATOR, BALL JOINT WEAR INDICATORS ON THE FRONT SUSPENSION LOWER CONTROL ARMS. IN FACT, WE HAVE MADE IMPROVEMENTS IN VIRTUALLY EVERY SINGLE 
· . 
AREA OF THE CAR SINCE ITS BIRTH FIFTEEN YEARS AGO. WE MADE THESE IMPROVEMENTS TO KEEP THE NOV A OUT OF THE MECHANICS 
GARAGE AND KEEP IT ON THE ROAD IN GETTING YOU THERE. 

1977 NOVA 


This advertisement was created and placed by University of Notre Dame participants in the Intercollegiate Marketing Competition. 
the observer Friday, April 29, 1977 
-----.·-,_....... ------·---­

Vatican decision on women priests opposed 
of disagreement  -in  words  and  
actions.  
Theologians  have  dissented.  

NEW YORK AP -A growing aggregation · of Roman Catholic groups· are challenging the Vat­ican's . insistence that only males are eligible for the priesthood and that women must be kept out of it. 
In the midst of the rising dissent, the issue. once more is before the Church's U.S. bishops. 
They're expected to echo the Vatican's position at their meeting in Chicago. May 3-5, rejecting a call from a national Catholic as­sembly· that the bishops support a change ~llowing ordination of wo­men. 
The appeal was among many made by the Church's historic "call to action'' conference in Detroit last fall, ·the first Church-wide gathering of official diocesan del­egations. It handed the bishops a raft of proposals. 
But the widest discussion focus­ed on the women's issue. a concern 
A·cademic Council to convene 
· by Jake Morrissey . Staff Reporter 

The pass-fail option, evening exams · and . mid-semester grade reporting are topics which will be discussed at Monday's meeting of the Notre Dame Academic Council, according to the recently-released agenda.· 
Also listeq for consideration are proxies at .official meetings, the student leave of absence policy, and policy · concerning student transfers from one college to another. 
The Academic Council will con­sider an. amendment to the Ac­ademic ·code on the pass-fail option. The proposed amendment would extend the deadline to take a pass-fail option from ten class days 
.. to 20 class days . There will also be a review of the policy prohibiting evening exams. In "The Final Report of the Faculty 
Brass ensemble concert Monday 
On Monday at 8 p.m. the Notre Dame Brass Ensemble will present a concert in Washington Hall. 
This concert. "The Splendor of Brass,'' ·is the first of an annual series of concerts devoted to music for brass instruments. Featured will be an historical overview of brass music from Des Prez in 1498 through the Renaissance and Clas­sical periods with music of Hassler, Purcell, Mozart and Beethoven down to modern times with two original compositions written this year for the Notre Dame Brass. 
Of special interest will be a piece by Massaino for four brass choirs spatially placed around the hall. The program will also contain the first performances of two pieces: "Angstlich" by Robert O'Brien, director of the Notre Dame Bands and "Quintet" by graduate assis­tand band director, Mark Stone-. burner. 
The 17 piece ensemble under the direction of Rev. George Wiskir­chen, will also perform several· selections from the brass band literature of mid-19th century Am­erica. 
"The Splendor of Brass" is open to the public at no admission charge. 

Masters thesis wins award 
A masters thesis on the early days of nuclear physics at Notre Dame has been awarded the prize for the best historical study on the 
•. University by the Committee on the t-History of the University. 
Bro. William Collins of Portland Oregon, doing his graduate work in the History and Philosophy of Science Program, was the author of the winning work. · 
The award, which includes a SSO cash prize, was established last•­
,.~~&'\~~.Co~>'\><~'""".....~..­
heightened by the Vatican's dec­laration Jan. 27 that women can't be priests because Jesus was a man and priests must have that "natur­al resemblance." 
In the wake of that declaration, reaffirming the Church's age-old rule against women priests, there have been spreading repercussions 
Nuns and other women's groups have protested and demonstrated. Petitions have been relayed to the Pope. Representatives of the coun­try's priests have urged admission of women to their ranks. 
In an "open letter" to the Pope's 
U.S. representative, all but two of the 25-member faculty of the Jesuit School of Theology in Berkeley, Calif., called the Vatican declara­tion a. "serious mistake," misre­
presenting Scripture and Church tradition. 
The "sacramental sign nec.es­sary" to represent Christ "is to be located within the human person, rather than within masculine or feminine sexuality,' the theology· professors said. · . 
They added that "exclusion of women from priestly ordination in our day does not reinforce 'the image of Christ for a growing number of people. but rather symbolizes sexual discrimination . within the Church." 
The National Federation of Priests' Councils, representing· most of the country's priests, also registered disagreement with the Vatican declaration. 
At their annual meeting · in Louisville, Ky., in March, they· urged U.S. bishops and Pope Paul VI to remove the Church laws prohibiting the ordaining of wo­men. 
Senate Ad Hoc Committee on the Senate unanimously passed that 
Departmental Examination Ques-faculty members be allowed to "if 
tion,'' it was stated that "both necessary, be represented by a-. 
groups (faculty and students) pre-nother faculty member appointed 
fer evening exams to 8 a.m. as his or her proxy by the elected 
Tuesday-Thursday. The concern faculty member." 
expressed by the Provost that The last three topics for discus­
evening examinations interfere sion are student related. A 
with evening activities is not sup-re-examination of the leave of 
ported by these results." absence policy for students is 
A proposal is also slated to be scheduled to be finalized. Accord. 
considered. The amendment ing to a letter written to Father 
reads, "if the work of a sophomore, James Burtchaell, provost of the 
junior or senior in any undergrad-University, by Richard Sullivan, 
uate course in the first half of the Notre Dame Registrar, "observa­
semester is unsatisfactory, a report tions relative to this present policy 
of that fact must be made by the have generally been favorable and 
instructor to the registrar (who) supportive of its continuation. It 
transmite the mid-semester grade might be helpful to the students if 
or deficiency notice to the student the conditions under which a leave 
and his or her financial sponsor." of absence is granted could be 
In a letter attached to the defined more specifically than they 
proposed change, Emil T. Hofman, are now." 
dean of the Freshman Year of Finally, there are the proposed 
Studies, stated that "the change is changes in the Academic Code to 
requested because the current revise it concerning transfer of a 
mid-semester deficiency system student from one college to another 
does not provide adequate guid-and college overloads. According 
ance for freshmen who generally to notes taken at the Feb. 16, 1977 
are unaware of college grading. Dean's meeting, a student "must 
There is good indication that a be in good academic standing. The 
formal report of a freshman's accepting dean has discretion a­
academic standing before final bout which credits are acceptable 
grades is an aid." toward the degree in the college." 
An amendment from the Faculty The meeting will be at 3:00p.m. 
Senate to revise the Academic on May 2 at the Center for 
Manual on the subject of proxies is Continuing Education. It will be 
also on the agenda. The Faculty closed to the public. 
~------------~---------------~ 
Cinema~Zi~ proudly presents:! 
"The Seduction Of Mimi" I I 

MAY 1 & 2 Engineering Aud. ! 

7:30 & 10:00pm Admission: $1 I
_____________________________j 
A. TIME TO DECIDE 

These few weeks are when Notre Dame students are making decisions. A few samples: 
What kind of summer job should I look for? What will my major be? Whom will I room with next year? What will I do after graduation? 
For those considering the priesthood, 
the question is : 
Is this the time when I should decide whether 
I want to be a priest 
If this is the decision you must make, . 
you can get help by contacting: 
Fr. Joseph Carey, C.S.C. (219 )283-6385 
Vocations Counselor 

HOly Cross Fathers ·:_,H 1 "-" St.,.ililJseph+iaMt Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
~,,_. ">.· ''r''.t'· 'lt' ¥'"11 ~!''~"'~•'~W'~-...~~"~~,~~'f,,.-~~~-~-.,,..~~~ ~ 
Eight national sister's organiza­tions, involving a big proportion of the country's 131,000 nuns, issued a joint statement calling for further consideration of the matter. 
The statement termed the Vat­ican declaration disappointing, but added, "We are not without hope." 
. Earlier, the "Women's Ordina­tion conference," carrying on its drive launced in 1975 for admission of women to the priesthood, spon­sored prayer vigils and other demonstrations in that cause at cathedrals in several major cities. 
·'If we cannot represent Christ in the priesthood, I wonder if we can represent Christ at all,'' said Sister Rosaria Salerno of Boston. 
The conference, which set up offices in Washington, D.C., began a Church-wide survey in April to collect details on Catholic women seeking ordination. An estimated 500 Catholic women now are enrol­led in seminaries . 
Bishops generally have support­ed the Vatican declaration, but say it does not forelcose discussion. As for the general Catholic attitudes, surveys indicate only 30% of the laity favors admitting women to the priesthood. 
SHOW TIME Thur-Fri-6 :45-9 :15 Sat-Sun-1 :45-4:15 6:45-9:25 PM 

·Bob Thomas. ASSOCIATED PRESS 
PAUL NEWMAN 



SI.IIPINSHOT 
With N.D.'s own Ray DeLorenzi! 

ND 
Fiddler on the Roof 
The loving theatrical hymn to the Jewish people based the Sholem Aleichem stories 
SMC 

Apr. 29, 30 May 5, 6, 7 
THEATRE 

8:00pm Aud. 284-4176 $2.50 ($2 std./fac.) 

BY THE 100 CENTER IN "DOUBLE. DECKER'' BUS LAND. 
Friday, April 29, 1977 the observer 
Observer Insight: 




Northeast neighborhood council fights litter 
by Chris Datzman . Notre Dame. and Publlc Ways: 
Senior Staff Reporter The three agreed upon a 30 day It shall be unlawful for any short-term proposal which included person to scatter on or litter the city a clean-up provision. According to streets and public ways with any 
Noise·, litter and other nuisance · the· agreement, each of the four materials, things or objects whatso­problems during the. past semester bars will pay a weekly contribution ever. have strained relations between the to pay for local youths to clean up Section 26-15, Noise: students, bar owners and North­the area. They also agreed to stop It shall be unlawful for any east Neighborhood Council. The using plastic cups and to prevent person to make, continue, or cause problem are . not . only· ·bad in patrons from looking into the to be made or continued any loud or themselves, but in .the opinion. of possibility of a city ordinance to unnecessary or unusual noise or 
many concerned Southbend citi­prohibit anyone from leaving a any noise which either annoys, zens, may result in even greate~ tavern with an open container. disturbs, injures or endangers the problems of a more serious nature. · The greater responsibility for the comfort, repose, health, peace or 
John Roos, Notre Dame govern­problem lies with the Notre Dame safety of others within the city. ment professor· and .a member of students living on-campus who Included in these are phonographs, the council explained the situation .. frequent the bars. loud speakers, yeUing, shouting, or 
"The northeast neighborhood is James Roemer, dean of stu-singing particularly between the an older one, with some decay and dents, commented, ''The students hours of 11 pm and 7 am, on publlc a high degree of h(!terogeneity," contribute to the problem by litter-streets. he said. "A large percentage of the irig, being noisy and acting irre-Roemer stated that the police citizens are elderly, .Jow income or sponsibly. Though these are only a policy regarding persons violating young families. This makes the . small minority of students, they these laws will be to arrest them or neighborhooc:! subject to stress and reflect on the whole student body. I fine them according to the serious­decay." have no sympathy for the way the ness of the incident. Those arrested 
Included in those who will feel . law will treat them if they are will be taken to the police station, the effects of this urban decay are . caught breaking the law," he put on a recognizance bond and a the Notre Daine students living in continued. "If that small minority trial date will be set. Roemer added this neighborhood. High rents and persists in violating the law then that he will become involved only in high crime rates are only two of the the best solution is for the South cases where a student is a continual possible outgrowths. Bend police to make arrests.'' problem for a bar owner, but is not 
To prevent these and to preserve Roemer added that the Univers-breaking any law. the community. citizens joined ity .will take no action in these cases Roos agreed that it was a together to form the · No:rtheast · and that the students should be minority of students responsible for Neighborhood Council. One of the aware of the laws that they may be the problems and that the students main concerns of the council pres-. violating. just don't realize the disturbance ently is the litter and noise caused Joe Ungashick, off campus com-they are creating. by students frequenting the CQrby­missioner, provided the Observer "When the students come to the Eddy tavern area.. Several weeks with the text of the city ordinances bars at night, they have to remem­ago the council met 'with represen­. that pertain to noise and litter. her that they are in someone's tatives from the area bars and alsQ Section 16-20, Littering Streets neighborhood," he said. "I'm sure 
Ml·n,·s·.,,,·e·s· .to· the ag,·ng 
that they wouldn't want this kind of 
mess and noise in their yards and neither do these people." 

ll·ontinued from page 91 . . become interfaith efforts. Roos noted that most students for healthy, older. people. after Continued and increased Church living in the residential area are not declining applications for· the activism in ministry to the elderly a problem at all except for occas­priesthood closed ·the . seminary. would seem · to be the trend ional loud parties. He added that Residents tontribt.ite from $150 'to indicated by Catholic services and this too can be worked out if the $400 monthly plus two. hours . of· by policy statements by groups studer.ts would notify their neigh­chores each dav. such as the U.S. bishops. bors beforehand and agree to clean 
Many parishes offer transporta­New York's Cardinal Terence up afterwards. · 
tion assistance and home.and'yard· Cooke said in a pastoral letter last "I'm not saying that one party or upkeep service· to elderly members. fall, "We should consider our one kegger will destroy the neigh­Much of this work is independently· attitude toward the aging and our borhood," said Roos. "But they organized and run. ·concern for them not only as a are substantial additional pres­Interfaith efforts to aid the aging fundamental Christian response of sures on an already sensitive 
are springing up across the coun­love and generosity toward the situation;" 
try. Kansas City's Shepherd's Cen­needy but as a profound duty of "I would hope for their own ter. located in Central United· respect toward the sacredness of sakes that the students behave · Methodist Church. is sponsored by life." responsibly," said Roemer. "They 
22 congregations. It provides · don't realize the seriousness of health screening, "Meals on Monday's article wUI look at the having an arrest for public intoxica­Wheels, .. shopping assistance and . creative approach of Harvest tion or disorderly conduct on their many other services, as ·well as House in South Bend in dealing record when applying for a job, or education. counseling,· legal aid,. with needs of the elderly beyond school or security clearance. It discount buying and political action health, housing and food, through won't look very good." opportunities. Programs in Phila­a program of self-help and com· Noise and litter can make a delphia and Los Angeles that munity service on the community neighborhood unpleasant to live in began as Catholic efforts have level. and eventually, encourage resi­
dents to move out. Those who move out, however, -are the sta~le middle
Hatch awarded fellowship 
class families who can·· afford to. The houses they leave behind may be bought up by "slum lords" who

to study history at Harvard 
rent them to students or fail to 
Nathan 0. Hatch, assistant pro­">earch fellowship at John Hopkins maintain proper upkeep. Since fessor of history at University. first book, "The families are a stabilizing factor in
Notre. Dame, His Sacred Canse of Liberty: Republi­the neighborhood, it becomes even
has been awarded a fellowship from the Charles Warren Center can Thought and the Millennia! in more sensitive. 
"It's a classic pattern," explain­for Studies in American History at Revolutionary New England," will ed Roos. "Families with resourceHarvard University. He will spend be published in September by the Yale University Press. move to the suburbs leaving behind 
the 1977-78 academic year engaged in research on a project entitled U . the elderly, the poor, the power­
less, who don't

"From Revolution to Reaction: The nltOya/ giVeS the people have 
jobs or an education. These people
Emergence of Federalist Political $5,000 to Seml"nar have even less power and ability to
Culture in New England, 1776­fight crime themselves.'' 
1790." Financial assistance for the Fac-Roos stressed that the Neighbor-One of ten fellowships awarded ulty Seminar on the Historical hood Council does not want to justannually by the Harvard Center Development of Science and Tech­emphasize the negative aspects of
the award includes an office. nology at Notre Dame received a secretarial assistance and all facul-boost this week with the presentat­ty privileges. ion of a $5,000 check from Uniroyal 
Hatch joined the Notre Dame Corporation. Dr. Michael J. Crowe, faculty two years ago after receiv-professor in the General Program ing a doctoral degree at Washing-and director of the program accept­ton University of St. Louis and ed the check from John R. Sellers, completing a post-doctoral re-manager of the Mishawaka plant. 
··························~···· 
: TIMM PARTY STORE : 
!OPEN: MON-SAT ~9 am-11 pm: _<L_....._..,.• SUNDAY 12 noon-11 pm • 
• COLD BEER, PACKAGE UQUOR,: 
•
•
• W1N~ GOURMETFOODS :
• 

3114 S. 11 ST. NILES, MICIDGAN: 
• 
: 1 Block North of state line on U.S. 31 •• 
the community. The council also more." has organized a nutrition program, To better student-neighborhood Boy and Girl Scout programs, relations, further the council is neighborhood clean ups and an out planning a program to acquaint the reach program for the poor. students with the neighborhood. 
"The council is also concerned Roos hopes that' this program will with upgrading the residences and be ready to show incoming fresh-checking for code violations," Roos men next year. 'Until then, the said, "Here's where the students Notre Dame students can help and the. neighbors could unite alleviate the problem by remem­together against the slumlords and bering to be responsible when get the city to enforce codes going to and from the bars. 
· 



senior b&r 
weekend happy-hours friday 3-6 beers -. 30 c 
seven & sevens saturday 3-6 come over after the blue-gold game 


junior nite is tuesday nite! 
.. 





LeadingCandidate? 
It takes a lot to become a leader in the Marines. You need hard training. Rigid discipline. Empha­sized responsibility. A determination to win. Confidence in those you lead. And a sense of integrity inspired by the uniform and insignia of a Marine Officer. 
If you want to make it-if you think you have what it takes to be one of our leading candi­dates-
SEE US IN LAFORTUNE TODAY 
And put your leadership to our test. 
A 
J 
uation Issue Personals Friday, May 20, 1977 Say your sad goocl·byes so the world can see them! 
10 words for $1.00 

.•·•••-•...,....,.a...,._,..... • .,.._.,....~e......... a.&e.-• ·e' ··liillll~iilllliiiiWIIIIilll!lli.illililll~Wf!IWlllliiii~W'~IIWI~IIIWIIWIIWI"'__,~"'Iilwl..._........,..-..~~i*" .~~~~~, 
commentary 
First, The Facts ---­---------m· flynnjournalist is fre­gram. The fact that no proposal The restructuring of the Cinema was ever explicitly laid out by him series is not a new issue: It has was because one never existed, been presented and discussed for Gryp insists. Last night's meeting years, and a number of changes between the SU Board of Directors have resulted. and the Cinema group was sched-The current controversy seems to uled before the controversy started have arisen from faulty communi­and was designed to work out a cations within Student Union and a mutually-agreeable program, he lack of confidence in the director's explains. judgement. Cinema Yet those who accused Gryp and As an outsider, Gryp should Movie Commissioner Bonnie Bona expect to meet with guarded ac-of seeking to abolish the Cinema ceptance by experienced Student has series believed that the decision Union workers. These first weeks to the had already been made. State-of his administration are his prov­ments of personal opinion by Gryp ing ground and he shou~d be and Bona were cited as future SU sensitive to the naturally ctrcum­result could not policy. Even now some feel that spectattitudesofmanyofhisstaff. the Cinema program would have The Student Union staff, on the as suffered greatly but for the publica­other hand, must allow Gryp to ask statements tion of the story before last night's the questions of an outsider trying · to find his footing , withoutDirector Tom meeting. One of e mos s .k.mg t·eatures over-reacting.th t triHis of the conflict was the number of There can be no room for to raise the people who had not actually spoken intelligent discussion unless all with their "opponents": Ground-parties agree on the facts. Then less hearsay and half-truth aboun­they can begin working towards a Commission pro­ded and distorted the situation. synthesis of ideas.  ·. *The Observer an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's The Observer is published by students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary'·s College It does not necessarily reflect the policies of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and ·as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a m~jority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions and letters are the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and letters are encouraged to promote the free expression of varying opinions on campus. EDITORIAL BOARD Marti Hogan Editor-in-Chief Martha Fanning Managing Editor Bob Brink Asst. Managing Ed. Kathy Mills Executive Editor Maureen Flynn Editorial Editor Barb Breitl:'nstein Exec. News Editor Tom Byrnl:' Campus Editor Jean Powley St. Mary's Editor Katie Kerwin News Editor Paul Stevenson . Sports Editor Pat Col~:> Special Projects Ed. David O'Keefe Features Editor  
Friday, April 29, 1977 P.O. Box Q 
If The Union Wins •••  

The job of a 
quently that of synthesizing _con­flicting sets of data and producmg a cohesive story. But every so often 
the data cannot be reconciled, to the frustration of both writer and reader. At that point it becomes 
impossible for either to determine what is fact, what is half-fact and what is groundless hearsay. 
The Student Union's controversy was just such a situa­tion. The immediate question, the future of the Cinema series, apparently been settled satisfaction of almost everyone. But such an immediate and gener­ally acceptable have been achieved had the parties been as diametrically opposed their previous indicated.
Student Union Gryp claims he· never intended to abolish the Cinema series. aim, he says, was question of the role of the series in the Student Union and as a part of the new Movie 

opinion 
~~~~--------robertpanoff. 
Enough is enough. In the past In the first place, unionization way and in the open, it becomes few years, due to a number of must be seen as a real polarizing clear how ridiculous it is to claim trivial and short-lived confronta-issue among the faculty and be-that everything which could be tions, we have been lulled into tween the faculty and the other done to effectively raise salaries thinking that every problem which sectors of the University· The and benefits is not alreacly being faces the University can be neatly problem arises from certain faculty done. classified as an administration members setting their particular Voice in University Governance: power play, a faculty concern, or interests above any real considera-Let us not confuse democracy in simply a student issue. Each sector tion for the good of the University governance with the tyranny ?f the is then supposed to confine its as a whole. For the most part it is a majority. Some have suggested attention to handling the situation matter of separating the best that the faculty has an undeniable in such a way that is own position is interests of the faculty as a single right to a voice in the governance of bettered. The students especially component apart from the best the University in setting its policies have been guilty of a hands:orr interests of the University; how-and determining its priorities. In approach to the problems that ever in some cases, the problem is viewing the actions of these same affect the entire University. We really that personal interests have persons, however, in the Faculty are content to put all effort toward been given to priority. Some would Senate and in the Academic Coon-the achievement of such near-claim that what is good for the cil, it becomes strikingly clear that sighted goals as a comfortable faculty is in the best interest of the the real goal is not to achieve a calender, an easy exam schedule, University. I suggest that there voice, an input to the process which or a better "social life." We label has been a reversal of common they already possess, but to achi­all other problems as faculty-sense in such an approach: what eve control of the process itself. 
proves to be good for the University Those who claim they are onlyadministration matters preferring will in fact be what is in the best seeking this voice are the same to expend energy on other "vital interest of the faculty. individuals for whom not to agree is issues." 
the same as not to have listened. 

At best we invite the opposing Polarization, an inevitable by-From recent lessons in the political parties to an Observer debate; at product of the unionization drive, arena, it is clear what can happen worst we go about our business cannot help but lower the academic when such persons (especially if completely oblivious to the problem tone, and consequently the aca-they are primarily interested in since its resolution would not affect demic quality -something which bettering their personal situation) us anyway. . 
affects us all. are given (or assume) positions of This may be well and good if 
If one were to take the time to leadership and responsibility for a indeed the matter at hand is as consider the two main issues at community. What is needed is the harmless and distant as we first hand, serious problems in the clear understanding that while a perceived. But no issue .that argument for collective bargaining faculty may be sufficient for the attacks the integrity of the Untver­
are introduced: being of a university, in no way is it sity will run its course without 
Faculty salaries: The claim is sufficient for its weD-being. 
serious consequences for those who made that Notre Dame salaries dl' I am not objecting to the so-study here now and for those who not compare with those of state called phantoms of collective bar-will do so in the years to come. 
institutions. While this may be gaining, but collective bargainingSuch an issue presently threatens true, this is also Notre Dame, an itself in the University context.
the well-being of this institution independent University, not tied to While not ignoring the good inten­and that which affects the whole . a state assembly able to legislate tions that can be assumed for many affects the parts. Such an issue is inceases. Any arbitrary salary of those involved, I suggest thatfaculty unionization. 
increase would come about only by politics, academics and powerIn the AAUPbulletins and in the decreasing the funding of some plays do not mix well, and we mustarticles published in this paper, we other University program. As for oppose those who do not hold the are asked to believe that collective collective bargaining as a solution, University's best interest as theirbargaining is an option to be Dr. Robinson himself makes it clear own. As for the students here atdecided solely between the faculty that "collective bargaining does Notre Dame, especially since weand the administration. We are not create new money." Con-probably have not done so to date,told that unionization will improve cerning distribution of funds, this I would suggest that we spendthe quality of our education by · should be viewed in light of some time to really understand themaking Notre Dame a better place administration efforts to raise sal-issues and ramifications of collec­to learn and work. We are aries coupled with the fact that tive bargaining at Notre Dame, andpresented a picture of administra­many of these same administrators thereby oppose it. With all duetion bullying resulting in a starved donate their own salaries to the apologies to Burke, all that isand oppressed faculty which ~n University. Further, with the needed for the union is for enoughonly be relieved by collecti~e Campaign for Notre Dame under-good men to do nothing. 
bargaining, an anthropormorphtc deity of neo-messiannic purport. 
SEe, 11J4YI fiGURE

On the contrary, this is an issue 
n; .nAN. MIEN '1VlJ

that affects us all. Ifwe were to see 
GET[}()(,(/# 70 liElUI~;

the unioni:i:ation drive for what it is, 
YOU HAV6 70 HAV/3

then we could not help but get 
A ReAl GAMEPtAN! 

involved to oppose it. If we were to \ really take the effort to see the effects it will have on the quality of our education -ifwe are concerned about that aspect of Notre Dame ­than we will be incensed enough to undertake another "irate letter campaign," onJy this time for something lasting and worthwhile. I can say these things from the deep conviction that if the union wins, we -administration, faculty, and expecially students, will lose. 
, 

Black students at Notre Dame. May I suggest that your letter

Minorities 

personifies the exact racist attitude which we as Black students dem­onstrated against in the April 21 sit-in?

should unite 
Really, Cris, there is no need for your ''there-are-minorities-and­then-there-are-Blacks" attitude. 
To Cris de Ia Torre: All oppressed people are brothers; all are held in a common bondage. 
Cris, though I realize the flip­That is why I have taken the time to pancy with which you wrote the write this letter to you; and why, as letter appearing in the April 27 a member of the Black Cultural edition of The Observer, I could not Arts Council, I extend to you a agree with your opening sugges­sincere invitation to visit the cen­tion more fervently. Minorities on ter, "lounge around, read maga­campus should unite for we are all zines, talk, rap, chew gum and just one in the struggle for equality. generally have a good time" and However, Cris, I do find fault in the then, find out what really goes on remainder of your letter. You there. begin by demanding, "Minorities on campus unite!" but, then, you Deborah D. Thomas immediately attempt to separate us. You attempt to set one minority against another or, more accur­ately, you attempt to set all other 
*Observer 
minorities against Blacks. Don't you realize, Cris, that the worst possible threat to any united body is internal friction? How can 


Editorials 

minorities unite and at the same time fight among themselves? 
Ifyou feel deprived because you (as an ethnic group) are not recognized at Notre Dame, you should not undermine the slow 
Thank you, 

progress other minorities have made. What you should do is state your complaint, make your griev­


Jean 

ance known. Yes, demand to see Father Hesburgh. Do contact The Observer to create publicity. And Dear Editor: 
contact me to support you in your This. is a letter of thanks to cause. Your gain does not have to Jean, South Dining Hall, from the be at my expense, nor mine at student employees: yours. That's just a myth created Before things get hectic -tests, by a white capitalistic society. etc., we student employees of Don't you realize that, Cris? We South Dining Hall want to say, can all work together for a common "Thanks to you for everything, good. kindness, being helpful and your 
By the way, Cris, I personally little notes on the door every loved the tact with which you wrote payday. It gave us all a smile. We your letter: never once mentioned just want you to know we apprecia­the word Black. But I didn't miss ted it. the point, Cris. And I didn't need a translator. Your letter was directed 1 Student Employees at (or more correctly against) the South Dining Hall 
NO, NO, 
RNOINGA SPOf/St! sa;. A GUYfoESJS 
A 7lWtt JJ!W•. 


Friday, April 29, 1977 the observer 
Letters to a Lonely God 
Regrettably, the President's schedule... 
THE WHITE 1-iOUSE 
WASHINGTON 
April 26, 1977 

Dear Father Griffin: 
It was kind of you to write as you did on April 12.tnviting fhe President to be with you for your children's Mass celebration on Sunday,Moioy 22. 
Regrettably. we will not be able to accept your thoughtful invitation in that the President's ~ule will allow hia to be at Notre Dame only for that ti.e durinq which the commencement itself is held. 
The President has asked me: to send you his best . wishes and to thank you sincerely for your kind words ud especially £or relllelllbering him in your prayers. 
Sincerely~ 
:±_2. ..,(c__ 
Fran Voorde Director of Scheduling 

"The Reverend Robert F. Griffin~ C.S.C. University Chaplain University of Notre Dame Post Office Box Sfil Notre Dame~ Indiana 46556 
I hope it is not impolite to publish a letter mailed to me froin the White House. I think the world of the White House, and I'd rather be considered a Republican who voted twice for Nixon than to offend the Family living there now. But, you see, I never got a letter from the White House before. White House letters, written on White House stationery with a stamp cancellation of Smokey the Bear and a return address that says simply The White House, are precious documents. Some people, on getting letters from the White House, have them framed and hung on the wall; afterwards, they are passed down from generation to gernation as family heirlooms. I don't think I willhave my White House letter framed; but I have a 
· 

couple of friends who, on getting mail from Pennsylvania Avenue, had their letters framed. Of course their letters were signed by the President. HrourWhite House letters is signed by the Director of Scheduling, framing isn't so necessary. Still, I cherish my letter; and any children I may ever have (huh!) are welco"me to it as an heirloom, passing it down through the generatiollS until it becomes a collector's item, and its sale will bring in enough money to send their kids to college .. · · . 
' The White House letter was, of. course, a reply to an invitation I sent to the President: · 
I would like to invite you and Mrs. Carter and Amy to attend ·the Sunday· morning Urchins' Mass when youvisit Notre Dame for Commencement Day; May 22. The Urchins' Mass; whiCh is attended by moppets, tykes, and gamins, as well as urchins, is a liturgy for the childre~ of the Notre Dame family. We sipg . "Jesus Loves Me••, read the Bible; and celebrate Holy Communion ·m the Cath­olic way. Our children, like most other children have never seen .a President of the United States,· nor a President's wife, nor a President's child. I would \ike to have .you come and read them a Bible story (they've never had a Presi­dent of the United States read them a Bible story, either; but what child has, unless he goes to Plains Baptist Church?) I'd like to have you and Mrs. Carter and Amy sing "Jesus Loves Me'' With our Catholic children at Notre Dame. It would mean the world to them, and· the world to me. Our children pray for you; but, since they are not pO­litical, they also pray for Mr. Ford and Mr. Nixon as well. I know you don't mind that, since you pray for those ex­Presidents yourself. Whether you are able to come and see us, or not (we understand you will be busy dqring your time at Notre Dame), we are, all of us, proud you are coming to this campus. We hope the urchins, moppets, tykes, and gamins at the Plains Baptist 


The Entertainment Week 
On the Tube 
WIDE WORLD OF SPORTS -(Sat. 4 p.m. 
28) Auto daredevilers and NCAA wrestling featUre the start of the weekend sports. Jim McKay is host. 
TENNIS -(Sun. 3 p.m. 28) Telecasting live from Caesar's Palace in Las Vagas in the final round of the Alan King Tennis Classic with a total purse of $200,000. 
AIRPORT-(Sun. 7 p.m. 28) The first in the series of airport dramas based on Arthur Hailey's novel starring Burt Lancaster and an all-star cast. 
IN SEARCH OF NOAH'S ARK -(Mon. 7 
p.m. 16) A theatre failure adapted for television, this documentary looks into the claims of the discovery of that ancient vessel. 
NIXON FOR THE FIRST TIME -(Wed. 
6:30 p.m. 34) Exclusive interview wi~ ex-president Richard Nixon by Davtd Frost. 

Randy Gelber 

BIG JAKE-(Wed. 8 p.m. 16) John Wayne plays the leading role as a rancher chasing after a bunch of outlaws who kidnapped his grandson.
CHEVY CHASE (Thursday, 9 pm, 16) Chevy Chase is the host of this one hour comedy-variety special. 
ALOHA, -BOBBY AND ROSE -(ton. IS p.m. 
28) Two young lovers (Paul LeMat, Dianne Hull) turn into fugitives following an a~idnetal shooting. 
On Campus 
FIDDLER ON THE ROOF , (Fri., Sat. 8 
p.m. P'Laughlin Aud. Advanced tickets of students and staff $2) Musical play by Stein-Bock Harnick. RETURN OF THE PINK PANTHER-(Fri. 7, 9:30,11:45 Eng. Aud. $1) Starring Peter Sellers and Christopher Plummr. SEDUcriON OF MIMI -(Sat., Sun. 7:30, 
10:30 Eng. Aud. $1) Directed by Lina Wertmuller and starring Giancalo Gianin­ni. 

Reverend Robert Griffin 
Church will think of us sometime if you eyer read them a Bible story and sing "Jesus Loves Me" with them as we hope you might do with the Catholic children at Notre Dame. Regards from all of us to Mrs. Carter and Amy. 
Ordinarily, I would never dream of writing a letter to the President ofthe United States. I would have felt like a fool asking Kennedy, or Ford, or Nixon, to read the Urchins a Bible story. I wouldn't have felt like a fool asking Johnson to sing Sunday school hymns with the children, because I think he might have loved touching faith and matching notes with the sincerest Americans; but I would always have considered him too busy. But with Jimmy Carter, God bless him anything seems possible, ifit is decent and human and Christian and American. Invite Jimmy Carter to the Urchins' Mass? Why not? I'm sure he liked being 
asked,.and would have felt at home with our simplicities of 
worship. Since he is to be in the neighborhood, I invited 
him trusting Father Hesburgh and the Trustees wouldn't 
mind; reasoning that the President might be more refreshed by the sight of children at play with their God than hewould be by the solemnities with chicken salad served at a Commencement Day lunch. 
Presidents have their schedules, and schedules have their directors, and so Urchins don't get \to see Jimmy Carter or hear him read them a Bible story. It must be a very lonely job being the President (It ain't no bed of roses either, I've read, being God.) It must be dull sitting around conference tables in the White House scheduled into seeing Arab leaders and studying energy crises. I'm glad Jimmy Carter has Amy (and Mrs. Carter!) to talk to sometimes. I hope he reads them Bible stories. I hope he reads Bible stories to the children at Plains Baptist· Church. I hope his Director of Scheduling lets him do it, because it is important to tykes, moppets, gamins, and 
u. ;bins everywhere in the world for the President to remember that yes, Jesus loves him. 
1 hope Jimmy Carter remembers that Jesus loves him. I hope that at least occasionally, he has time away from his schedule to hear the children tell him Jesus loves him. The children --in the Urchins' chapel as at the Plains Baptist Church--deliver the message as eloquently as the Bible itself. 
MAHOGONY -(Tue., Wed. 7, 9, 11 Eng. Aud. $1) Diana Ross sings and stars in this flick with Billy Dee Williams. 
WVE AND DEAm-(Thur., Fri. 7, 9, 11 Eng. Aud. $1) Woody Allen and Diane Keaton star in this hilarious comedy. 
STICCKS AND BONES-(Fri., Sat., Sun. 8 pm Washington Hall 50 cents) A play presented by St. Ed's Hall. 
On the Screen 
Boiler hOuse 1: SILVER STREAK Gene Wilder and Jill Clayburgh struggle along admirably in this comedy-romance-adven­ture, . saved regrettably late by the truly funny Richard Pryor ...liz Boiler House 2: NETWORK Paddy Chayefsky's sophisticated screen-play is performed admirably by the likes of Peter Finch, Faye Dunaway and William Holden. The black comedy ~nters on the commer­cial television industry, and is disconcert­ing not in. that what it says is true, but in that what is says could very well come true. 
Forum 1: YOUNG FRANKENSTEIN Mel Brooks' zany rendering of the monster classic is worth a second look ifyou've seen it already, amust ifyou haven't yet. Gene Wilder, Marty Feldman, Madeline Kahn, Cloris Leachman and Peter Boyle. ••• Forum 2: SLAP SHOT H you're only out for laughs, this story of a. fourth-rate hockey team starring Paul Newman could work if you're willing to overlook its misdirected intentions. **liz Scottsdale: AIRPORT 77, another small step ~r Hollywood, ~ne giant leap for absurdism on film. •• Town & COuntry 1: ROCKY Sylvester Stallone's tour de force that focuses on a gutterbum prizefighter who gets a shot at the title is as appealing in its simplicity as it is moving in its. realizaion. ,..... Town & Country 2: BLACK SUNDAY A slick contrivance concerning a Black Sep­tember plot to kill everyone at the Super Bowl. **liz State: DEMON SEED Futuristic Oick about a diabolical computer that forces Julie Christie to conceive its child. River Park: THE LATE SHOW A delightfully unabashed revival of the Old privat-eye movies, starring Art Carney and Lily Tomlin.... 
On the Air 
SOMEONE YOU SHOULD KNOW: (Tues­day, 10:30 p.m., WSND-FM) Lou Brien's guest this week is Robert E. Lee, head of the Federal Communications Commission. 
guest gourmet John Rooney samoled that 
Magnificent Meals In Michiana iegenclary breakfast, the Trucker's SPCcial



'rle~ 's 

($1.63), 2 excellent egs, 3 superb saus­ages, 2 slices of tremendous toast \with

S.hl 

grape jelly), and a heap of.hearty potatoes,'O that he managed to mumble something
Ti m 0 Nei1ey 
about them being "jewels of the Emerald . Isle," while in the midst of a typically IrishIt's been a long haul from Omaha, with take ~ tries to get thekey into tlle door, ·sea of an American in change. drunken stupor. Likewise, I thought my
nothing but a lot of gas stations and they are determined to satisfy the post­Whether Shirley, daughter Sue, or tbe Trucker's Special was good enough to getsmokies along the way. The constant roar drinking munchies. 
relatively petit husband· wait on a table, both Catholic and Protestant to eat of the engine and the hiss of the CB make Like a lighthouse beacon guiding ships don't expect a menu without asking. The together. Special guest gourmet (andfor good company on the road, but it'd be safely to port, her "Open 24 hours" neon 
most prominant appetizer, without looking, Italian) Ken Ricci, had no comment nice to see ~orne flesh and blood .before sign attracts the weary, the drunk, the is the bowl .of chili ($.75), so spicy and reaching Pl>Jly. Time to pull up at this hungry of Michiana. Her stools may beany that special guest gourmette Therea Completing matters came dessert, choc· Dometown m'Indiana to get some food in wObble, her jukebox music is vintage Sullivan proclaimed, "H Mulligan stew olate doughnuts covered wit superblythe gut and caffeine in the blood before Indianan, fier plates are hopelessly mis­tasted like-this, the Irish never would have formed finger prints and ripe for dunking finishing this job. matched, her spoons ripple like St. come to America." Though a 3-~rm fire in the perky coffee ($.25). With the 
The Library had another special tonight, JQiepb's Lake, her figure assumes incred­quickly broke out in her heart, iShe( seemed ~hirping of the birds and a slightly bluish and of course there are many takers. As ible shapes and proportions, yet it is a very pleased at the generous porti6n of tint starting to wash the sky' the customen closing time approaches, the number of place nocturnal diners call home. Shirley's crackers coming with every bowl. , began to fade away, driving just a little empt) bottles and cans outnumber those (White House #10, 1444 Mishawaka Ave.) UndauJ!tedly, we survived the somewhat straighter than when they came. The that are determined to close the place. can hardly be called just a greasy spoon, slow service to gorge on her omelet ($1.10), bottom of the morn' was over, and Many o(these stragglers'have partaken LW but a full-fledged slice of Americana, a pregnant with ham and cheese, and most Shirley'8 had once agaio held its own much drink tooight, and. though.it.might constant standing .apart from the swirling delectable at that. '!.Meanwhile, special ....•.special court for .the people of the night. 

r 
I 
r 
8 the observer Friday, April 291 1977 
Church provides several ministries for the aging 
by Katie Kerwin NewsEdJtor 
EdJtor's note: This is the third article in a ftve-part series dealing with aging and the Church's minis­try to the elderly. Yesterday's article outlined the commitment of the Church, as voiced by the CathoDe Bishops of the United States, to recognize and protect tbe rights and dignity of the elderly. Today's article will cover some of 
the services offered bv the Church 
to meet the physical -and material 
needs of the elderly, in keeping 
with this commitment. 
Since 1883 when the Lafon home for aging blacks was opened in New Orleans. religious orders have been caring for the old, sick and dying of America. These facilities have ex­panded and multip1ied until today there are 650 Catholic hospitals and 582 Catholic homes.for the aging and nursing in the US. 
These services have also become 
so diversified as to include pro­
grams for better nutrition, home 
health care. improved housing, 
transportation, economic counsel­
ing and job training. While relig­
ious orders still play a large role in 
ministry to the elderly, Catholic 
laitv has undertaken a more active 
part in this service. 
Foster Grandparents is the larg­est student volunteer organization on the Notre Dame campus attemp­ting to serve the needs of the elderly. Over 200 students partici­pate in this eight-year-old pro­gram, under the direction of John f. Santos, professor of psychology, director of the Center for Aging: Research, Education and Services, and director of Mental Health Outreach Program for the Elderly. 
According to Brian Griffin, co-or-

Free University booklets available in SU 
Off-campus students who wish to obtain a Free University booklet can get them in the lobby of Lafortune Student Center starting today. It is asked that only students who will be here next fall take the booklets since there are very few left. 

WNDU to feature Nixon interviews 
Charles Linster. program direct­
or for WNDU Radio, announced 
that WNDU Radio. 1490 AM has 
arranged for exclusive area broad­
cast rights to the conversations 
between Richard M. Nixon and 
David Frost. 
The conversations will be pre­sented in four 90 minute broad~ casts. The first program will be heard Wednesday, May 4, at 6:30 p.m.. and is titled "Nixon the Man." The second program is scheduled for Thursday, May 12, at 
6:30 p.m., and deals with ''Nixon and the World." On Thursday, May 19. at 6:30 p.m. "Nixon and America" will be broadcast. The series concludes on Wednesday, May 25. at 6:30p.m., with "Nixon on Watergate." 
Immediately following each broadcast. a roundtable analvsis of the conversations will be conducted by Bob Moore, vice-president of Mutual News. Commentators Jack Anderson and James J. Kilpatrick will be featured in the discussions. 

dinator of the program, 64 Notre Dame students regularly visit pa­tients in South Bend and !'Iiles nursing homes. The volunteers work with activities directors in -the homes and occasionally go with residents to activities outside of the home, such as the Ice Capades, to help prevent the depressing atmo­sphere of abandonment and loneli­ness that pervades so many nurs­ing homes. 
Foster Grandparents volunteers also visit six nutrition sites and two local hospitals. The organization works in cooperation with Real Services, the Church-affiliated or­ganization serving the elderly of St. Joe County on the nutrition program. Students assist in serving and cleaning up after meals, in addition to conversation and inter­action with elderly participants. 
One hundred ten students partic­ipate in the Telephone Reassurance Program, in which each volunteer agrees to call an elderly person once every day at a specified time aJ1d to visit that person once a week. 
"This is essentially an adopt-a­grandparent program, where each person assumes a personal respon­sibility for one elderly person," Griffin said. "Older people living alone are too often shut off from interpersonal contact--they are so-. cially isolated,'' he explained. Of­ten. an elderly person falls ill and 


St. Mary's to hold annual Open House 
by D~bbie Dahrling 
This Sunday, from 1:30 p.m. to 
4:30 p.m., St. Mary's will hold their annual Open House for the South Bend community. 
Many activities are scheduled for the campus-wide Open House for all interested people. The entire campus, including the bookstore and the Madeleva classroom build­ing, will be open to the public. There will be campus tours avail­able for anyone interested during the afternoon. The Junior Class is sponsoring the tours and tour guides can be contacted in the lobby of LeMans Hall. 
Also during this time the St. Mary's art depat1ment will conduct an art exhibit and art sale in Moreau Hall. Other activities include an exhibition tennis match by the St. Mary's tennis team and an ice cream social sponsored by student government. The tennis matches will be played on the tennis courts by Regina Hall while the ice cream social will be held in the lobby of LeMans Hall. 
At 4:30p.m., at the conclusion of the Open House activities, a ded­immediately to check. In addition, the daily . calls and weekly visits "gives the senior citizen a sense of being wanted, and a pipeline to the outside world;" Griffin said. 

5:15p.m. Sat.

The third aspect of Foster Grand­
9:30a.m. Sun.

parents is community projects, designed to help elderly citizens in 10:45 a.m. Sun. need of small home repair, clean­12:15 p.m. Sun. ing and odd jobs. Acting on referrals from other organizations 
Vespers will be at 7:15 p.m. in Lady Chapel.
and using money the group has raised by·campus and community The celebrant will be fund-raising activities, about ten ~:~: Rev. Kevin R. Kearney, C.S.C. -:::: Notre Dame students help senior ::::::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:::::::;:;:;:::::;:;:;:;:;:::::::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:::;:;:::::;:::::;:;:;:;:::::::::;:::;:::::;:::;:;:::::::;::::::::~: 

citizens, often those living on fixed incomes, · to make small house 
repairs. The volunteers do 






yard r----..----------------------·
work, indoor painting and clean-up 
and similar jobs. No payment is accepted for this work. 
Observer needs deliveryman 
The Observer is looking for a part-time deliveryman for the 77-78 school year. This is a salaried position. 
Anyone interested should stop by the Observer office, or call Bob at8362. · 
Class will present a plaque to President John Duggan in honor of the dedication. 
After the dedication ceremonies, a Notre Dame-St. Mary's commun­ity picnic will be held from 5 p.m. to 6 p.m. in the field by the dining hall. All St. Mary's faculty members and administrators are invited to attend. For Notre Dame students .who wish to attend; 500 co-ex tickets will be available at the Student Union office in Lafortune. The tickets can be picked up by the usual procedure on Sunday. 
At 5:30 p.m. a ping-pong drop will be held on St. Mary's.campus. The Junior Class is sponsoring the event which was originally sched­uled as an An Tostal activity. The ping-pong drop was cancelled last weekend due to rain. Five hundred ping-pong balls will be dropped from an airplane over the campus. Prizes will be awarded to any person who finds a ball with a number _on it, Prizes include gifts from many stores in the area including the North Village Mall. 
€h£ (nbmiaJ 

Fantak£ Hous£ 
OUR SPECIALTY OVEN BAKED APPLE PANCAKES 
You'll be back for more 
US 31, CDixieway North) in RDseland {Aaoss from Holiday Inn) 
------------------·

i '\~t \JBRIR; I 
I ···-))) C.··· I
IThanx to all for the success11 · of Michelob night!· . · ·· ·• 
1 Now it's Miller Time!!! i 
I WED. MAY 4 1 I Miller bottles 35cents I I 3 for $1.00 I
!plus 5 dozen T-shirts & much more. I 

~----------------~ 
Rev. Robert Griffin, C.S.C. Rev. Oliver Williams, C.s.c~ Rev. Kevin R. Keamery, C.S.C. Rev. William Toohey, C.S.C. 
Foster Grandparents. 

Community service volunteers from CILA go to Portage Manor. a local nursing home, every Tuesday and Saturday. Activities including showing old comedy movies, bingo, 
[ ti d · 9]
con nue on page 
ication of the new St. Mary's athletic facility will take place in the field next to the dining hall. Although the building will not be completed until July. the dedica­tion date was chosen for the Open House celebration. The Senior 
YMCA to hold nutrition seminar 

A seminar concerning nutrition and food supplements will be conducted tomorrow at the South Bend YMCA at 2 p.m. and 8 p.m. The YMCA is located at 1201 North Side Blvd. Notre Dame faculty and students are invited. For more information call 232-2128. 
no one finds out until days later, when it may be too late. By calling every day,. the volunteer makes sure their •grandparent' is all right. If the senior citizen doesn't answer the phone,. the volunteer has two contacts who can go to the home 
Students are recruited mainly from psychology courses for the visitation activities and by dorm recruitment drives for the Teie­phone Reassurement Program. Griffin estimates that over 1,500 
elderly are directly influenced by 
St. Mary's Social Commission presents: 
'LAST CHANCE' DANCE 
Youth is Our Concern 
as f s 
-

The priests and brothers of the Piarist Orde.r have educated youth for over 300 years. We work in SAT· , APRIL 30 9pm-lam
schools, ceo programs and parishes, across the USA. If you would like further information about our work and lives, write to: Vocation Dir., The Band: "Choice" Piarists, Devon, Pa. 19333. 
Admission-50 cents
The Piarists 

Religious orders care for old, sick, and dying 
[continued from page 8] · health, financial or other problems Real Services participates also in 
arts and crafts, and sing-along · to services or agencies that may be the Foster Grandparent Program 
nights. Some volunteers and · pa-able to help them. It also provides a (not related to the ND organiza­
tients are planning to attend the "Meals on Wheels" program that tion), which sponsors elderly who 
Blue-Gold football game this week-deliver hot meals by van .to . work with handicapped or neglect-
end and hold a picnic aftel'Ward. homebound aged, in addition to the e d chi I d r en. 
Between 20 and 25 volunteers nutrition centers, which serve hot Employment services to find jobs 
participate in the Portage Manor meals at noon. Fellow~hip and the for the aged, organization of group 
program, according to Mark .Heb-lectures which sometimes follow trips, a crime program and a 
erlein, CILA community service the meals are further benefits . of retirement orientation program are 
coordinator. the nutrition centers, Real organiz-among other services Real main-
Resources for Enriching Adult ers say. tains. Real Services personnel lee-Living (REAL) Services is the Real Services also has a retired ture to groups on programs avail-Catholic agency for assistance to Senior Volunteer Program for eJ, able to assist the elderly on the the people of 60 years and older in derly people who work as volun-state and local level. St. Joe County. It offers an teers in places such as hospitals. The Dollar Ride is Real's trans-information referral service to di-The unpaid volunteers are reimbur-portation service to get those who rect senior citizens with housing, sed for the expenses they incur. live the city bus system to such 

The last in the series of Senior Comprehensive Art Shows opens Saturday., April 30, frorn 7 p.m. to 9 p.m. Exhibit artists [left to right] are: Sherry Niemier in relief prints, Marianne Fitzgerald in plaster reliefs, Diane Henderson in silkscreening, and judy Poklinkowski in ceramics. The shows are open to the public. [photo by Debbie Krilich] 
things as doctors and dental ap­pointments. Real also provides home health care to the elderly and day health care to enable some ill aged to continue living at home with their families. Day health care permits those who need continual care and . whose families are not home durtng the day to come to a center all day and return home in the evening. 
Federal funds help to support many of the Church-administered projects, including nutrition cen­ters, "Meals on Wheels", the Foster Grandparent Program and the Retired Seniors Volunteer Pro­gram. Catholic Social Services in 
some locations employ federal money to run homemaker services to provide temporarily disabled elderly with basic meal-cooking and housecleaning services that can make the difference between a person's staying in his own home or going to a nursing home. 
Federal financing of Church-sponsored housing can also be seen around the country. Catholic-spon­sored projects made up 15 percent of the first round of allocations made under the government's Sec­tion 202 Housing Plan Twenty-two diocese and agencies were involved and more Catholic-sponsored pro­jects are expected to be among new allocations to be soon announced. 
Government money makes it ! 
Friday Beer Sale 
4-7 pm 
PITCHERS 77$ 
DRAFTS 25$ 
FAT WALLY'S 

possible for church groups to help many more people than would otherwise be possible and the government benefits· from· the use of already established Chur.ch or­ganizations on a local level to reach people with services. But federal funding also raises worries among some the possibility of increasing government influence in· Church programs. Determinati~n of activi­ties by available grants and First Amendment conflicts are <;onceiva­bilities they foresee. . . 
There are, of course, many Catholic groups that serve the elderly without any government assistance. Project HEAD· (Help
Elderly Adults Direct) in Philadel­phia serves about 22,000 people a year through a network of 180 senior citizen clubs, most -of which are located in parishes, but others . located in housing projects and places not alliliated with the Church. 
In Green Bay, Wisconsin, the diocese's minor seminary building was put to use as a housing facility 
[continued on paee 51 

need posters in· a hurry? 

I

• • 1
•nsty-pr1nls 
the wi.z of the printingbiz! 

100 -11 x,17 posters Only $10.00 
203 N. Main ·So8end 289-6977 
Percussion recital Sunday at8:15 
The Notre Dame Music Depart­ment will present a graduate percussion recital by James Cata­lano. graduate assistant to the University Bands, this Sunday at 
8: IS in the Crowley Hall recital room. 
The concert will feature contem­porary percussion compositions by Creston. Milhead, Carter. Surinach, Musser, and other selections by 
J.S. Bach and Chic Corea. 
Bowen to sign bill for South Shore 
by Kathleen ConneUy 

Governor Bowen is expected to sign an appropriatiorts bill that would provide for funding of the South Shore Railroad which is used by some Notre Dame students. Final legislative approval took place on Tuesday. 
The bill would insure funding for the South Shore passenger service regardless of any cuts in the state budget presently being negotiated. 
The legislation would make $30 million of Federal Mass Transit matching funds available on an 80% federal, 20% local basis. 
Indiana  funds  would  total  $4.8  
million  with  an  additional  $1.2  
million supplied by IJlinois.  

The money will be used to purchase new passenger cars to replace the antiquated cars now in use on the line running from South Bend's west side to the Chicago Loop. 
Bowen has already signed into Jaw a companion bill enabling St. Joseph, LaPorte, Porter and Lake counties to form a commuter transportation district which would receive the funds and buy the equipment. The new cars would belong to the district, not the 
Wood comes to life. 


his ability to capture the timeless appeal of chil­dren and animals. Then the skilled hands of Anri woodcarvers, working high in the Italian Alps, give life-like dimension to the artist's creation. Carved and painted by hand, the finished figurine is a col­lector's delight. Come and 
see t:ie parade of all the  sctunld  
Ferrandiz favorites!  
~NRI  

Sa\'~lS'o 
Trisb DrinkwaN 
You'll save more than a wee bit of the green with these handsome imports! Sparkling clear and generously sprinkled wi~h shamrocks for good luck, they're yours 
m all the most wanted sizes from the 1 oz .. liqueur to the 8 oz. Irish Coffee with the recipe right on it! From the Schmid Collection. 
Boxof6: Reg. Now A) 1 oz. liqueur $12.00 $ 9.00 
B) 2 oz. shot glass $10.00 $ 7.50 C) 5 oz. cocktail $13.00 $ 9.75 
D) 8 oz. old fashion (2 patterns) $12.00 $ 9.00 E) 3 oz. sherry $12.00 $ 9.00 
F) 8 oz. brandy (3 patterns) $17.50 $13.10 
G) 8 oz. Irish Coffee (with or without recipe) Boxof6: $16.50 $12.35 Box of 2: $ 7.20 $ 5.40 
H) 10 oz. Beer Mug $ 1.70 ea. $ 1.25 ea. 

railroad. Sources at the State Capitol say 
Notre Dame Bookstore
Notre Dame Bookstore 
that Bowen can be expected to act 
·· ~on t~ bill-hv Sa~urday;.-· /-77.· ·· -· · 
~A'd............:._' ~ ~-~-/' ..,~~'-");:;:-~_..-~.:,.;<=..... ~..........:.._.....-.... -,~~-,..... ,· /
_.,.,..._ ---• ,_,.. t ..:.-.... ---....__. ~).,_-'-.-_........~ .. ,A-::c..:__-'L~ 
10 t-~ ~---o_b? e rver ______...:.F...:.r=id:.::~J....~·,_,·A:....::rP,=-:ri.:..i:=:29:J_;_;1:..::9~i7 
Plans considered for St. Mary's ''Senior Bar'' 
by Pat Payne 

A proposal to establish a Senior­Faculty Alumnae Club at St. Mary's next· year was reacted to favorably by the Academic Council yesterday. The St. Mary's junior class submitted the proposal for the club "To provide a legal and well­managed establishment for social" izing and drinking on our campus," stated Nancy Mogab, junior class president. 
Although the site is still tenta­tive, the council favored locating tile club in the vacant barracks next te the power plant and renovating them. The ultimate decision on the club's establishment and location, however, will be decided on by the President's Council before the end ()f this year. 
Pat Caserio, junior class vice­president, pointed out that the school would probably take the liquodic~nse out on its ~wn name, thereby assuming all liability for the club. C.a.serio added that St. Mary's wants to finance the reno­<ation project, which would entail t4_e installation of electricity and plumbing, and wall dividers to create an intimate atmosphere. A permanent bar, tables, chairs and 
Daneby case may be dismissed 
(continued from page 3r which time he could present facts and evidence why he should be retained and could rebut any reasons which might be offered in support of his termination.'' 
Danehy also complains he is being discriminated against, that '' more than 20 individual faculty members of (the University) have been retained and hAve been employed during the past 10 years by the defendant after reaching the age of65. 
Further, submits the plaintiff, the University discriminates a­gainst all faculty members "in that tt readily permits employees who 1re not members of the teaching faculty, both salaried and hourly, to Mbitrarily remain employed follow­tng their 65th birthday.'' 
He says he has good reason to helieve ''there could be a faculty position available for him after he 1ttained the age of 65, and has 
-elied upon this." 
He has given the University 'satisfactory service continuously >iDee Sept. 1951, and has perform­!d all of the conditions precedent .mder the terms of his contract of 
employment, and is capable of ~ontinued performance since he presently enjoys excellent physical and mental health." 
He will suffer "great and irre­parable injury" to his career if the :miversity deprives him of his position and that these damages .viii be "lasting and permanent." 
Club registration deadline May 6 
All clubs and organizations must register with Student Activities by noon Friday, May 6 to be recogniz­e4 for next year. 
' Next Friday is also the deadline for any club or organization inter­ested in participating in the lottery for football concession stands. The lottery will be held the afternoon of May6. 
Positions open for judicial boards 
Application!> are now being ac­cepted for positions on the Univer­sity Judicial Board, the Appeals Board, and the Board of Traffic and Parking Appeals for the 1977-78 academic year. 
Positions are open to all students from any major. Application forms are available in the student gov­ernment offices. All applications must be turned in by 5 p.m. on Wednesday. 
booths will also be put in. and administration. Caserio emph-give faculty members and alumnae Mogab remarked that she is 
Mogab noted that while the asized that the sponsor will be an informal gathering place. excited· about the idea of organizing electricity and plumbing will have responsible for seeing that the club The Indiana Beverage Commis-a senior club and considers it a to be installed professionally, a is run smoothly and also for sion was in favor of the idea, challenge ''that can be successfully group of Notre Dame architecture regulating the finances. Mogab mentioned, because it will accomplished." students have volunteered to draw The proposal originally recom-help alleviate loitering around the "We will proceed as cautiously up plans for the inside. Members of mended converting the clubhouse neighborhoods where the bars ore and responsibly as possible," she the junior class have also offered to into the club, but the council located. concluded. help fix up the club over the discarded the idea explaining that .----·-----------~----------­summer. it wouldn't be fair to underclass-
The Howard Academic-Cult. Comm. presents:
Mogab said that the club will be men and other groups wishing to set up and operated very similarly use it. Mogab mentioned, however, 
AN EVENING WITH 
to Notre Dame's Senior-Alumni that the club will be available to be Club. "It will be open three or four rented out to people 21 and over on nights a week and membership the nights it is closed. 
J ff N 

cards wil be available to students Mogab cited several advantages 
e . : oonan 
21 and over from both schools," to the establishment of a Senior-she stated. Faculty-Alumnae Club. "We want Student managers and barten-to provide a relaxed place on our 
classical guitarist
ders will be employed, and a campus where· students can go. sponsor from the faculty or admin-Right now everyone goes off cam­istration will be appointed to serve pus or to the bars on the week­
Friday April 29 Howard Hall 7:00pm 
as a liason hetween the students ends.'' She added that the club will 
"!J-t~~·· .~ .:·~ . 
:..··~J>· ~,.., 
',J ,• 


NowcomesMiller time. 
~-/ 
Michiana Beverages 142S. Olive Street 

............. _.. _ 11 ...."'11 ••• : .... _ ...... ·.• ~ .... ___: ..... -. 
Human Rights Symposium continues at CCE 
. [continued from page 2 tices. represent a mutation~ an abberration, not a norm," said Eddison Jonas Mudadirwa Zvobgo in speaking of the "Third World View of the Promotion and Protect­ion of Human Rights." Zvobgo, born in Rhodesia , is an 
· associate professor of law at Lewis University. His active political ca­reer includes serving as Zano Party leader, representing the Zano Par­ty in international meetings, hold­ing the publicity office of the Zano Party and editing the Zano News. From 1964 untio 1971 he was imprisoned in a detention camp for political activities which aided the black majority. 
With regard to human rights in the Third World Zvobgo said, "Respect of the senior dtizens by the young, of rulers by subjects, preoccupation with maintaining a · good name, committment to fami­ly, clan community and country--all these enmesh in the culture of the Third World peoples so thoroughly that their devotion to human rights is :;elf-evident, though they may not be able to point to a Magna Carta, a Bill of Rights, A fourteen Points or Four Freedoms and enshrine them. 
Zvobgo reported that most Afri­can and Asian· Third World coun­tries have experienced little of the Western movement in the area ·of human rights on account of culture, history and peculiar socio-economic factors, "sharpened by their new sense of nationalism in the post-co­lonial era. 
Zvobgo said the bulk of Africans and Asians remain culture-bound. To most of them, the concept of man as an autonomous, separate and self-determining factor is as non-existant as it is absurd. 


Zvobgo added that Third World nations have tended to limit theiJ; activism to apartheid and decoloni­zation. 
Concerning the present United Nations Charter, Zvobgo maintains that since Black Africa's member­ship is only one third, its moral binding authority to the treaty's other two thirds is questionable. The principle members, he claims, are responsible for the past colonial bondage of Black Africa. 
"Can it be seriously argued," asked Zvobgo, "that Malowi or .Burindi could make reservations to the Charter? Is the UN Charter not a treaty of adhesion which a new member has to be able to leave as it stands?" 
Zvobgo claims that he is convin­ced that the Universal Declaration of Human Rights draft would be significantly different froro the pre­sent one if newly drafted, in light of a significant rise in Black Africa's membership. No African leader has challanged the UNCharter accord­in to Zvobgo, for fear that the world would think he is violating human rights and thatAfrican states have need for it in their campaign against colonialism, a­partheid and imperialism. 
Decolonization of Black Africa 
posed urgent problems such as 
disease, poor housing, illiteracy, 
and lack of trained personnel, said 
Zvobgo. The "realities of indepen­
dence "include a tenuous hold of power for post-colonial govern­ments and the "pre-empting of trouble on the theory that preven­tion is better than a cure" jeopar­dizes Western ideas of human rights. In this environment, the potential for the abuse of power is self-evident, according to Zvobgo. 
Zvobgo listed the worst viola­tions of human rights in Africa as Rwanda's massacre of the Tutsi people, Burindi's of the Hutu, Uganda'.s expulsion of the Asians, Amin's campaign of terror, Gha­na's expulsion of West African aliens, Zambia's conflict with the Lumpa Church and the Ian Smith (Rhodesia) and John Vorster (South Africa) regimes of terror. 
iND Rugby club elects officers 
Tony Mediola will replace Leo Ehrline III as president of the Notre Dame Rugby Club for the 1977-78 season. Also reelected to serve the next season were Thomas Byrne as vice president and John O'Connell as secretary. New members elected were Mike Roohan as treasurer, Mark Tovey, Tim Gorie, and Tex Keffler. The ruggers close out their spirng season Saturday at home against the Chicago Lions. The "A" game starts at 12:00 noon and will be followed by the "B" and "C" games. 
Lost!!! One spleen in the vicinity of
FOR RENT Wanted: Female roommate to share 
room 9271. but Found!!! 149,000
~OTICES Washington, D.C. townhouse this platelets in the_ same general area,
Classified Ads

Furnished 3 bedroom house for summer. Call Jennifer at 4-4211. 
what an ugly thmg to happen!! GladFINAL PRE CANA SESSION, Satur­summer includes washer-dryer. 
Lost: Yellow and blue reversable to hear you are better, Diane!!!
day May 17th 9 :30 am to 4:30 pm. $150 per month. Call Mrs. Cooper Everybody.
raincoat with hood. Lost ThursdayAnyone who has not signed up for 272-3004. 

FOR SALEnight at Nickies. Please call4184 ask

Pre Cana instructions yet, please Christopher, in commemoration of a 
tor Ziggy.

sign up for this one day confer­weekend to be remembered and
Apartment for summer rent. 2 For Sale: 1 parachute, cheap. Call 
ence. Contact Campus Ministry 103 cherished always. Here's to a pro­
bedrooms utilities paid. $140 per Chuck 3303.
Lost: Red binder full of botany

Library-ext. 6536, 8832. mise made four years back. Always,
month. 287-6823. 
handouts. If found, please call BeckyFender tele. for sale with fuzz-wattKaren at 2110.

:..et John J'.lden Messages do it! 
1 room with kitchen privileges. $50 and mini-amp. Quick sale-will nego.
Don't like a bad habit of someone Welcome home Mary!!
per month-near bus line. Call 288-tiare. Terry 288-3706.
A gold charm bracelet with 7 goldyou work with? Want to break off a 9533 after 5 p.m. 

hearts engraved with my children's

committment? Want to phone your Happy Birthday Mary O'Meara!!
Rare fish for sale very cheap. Callnames and birth dates, and one goldfamily that you're alive & well? Or 
5 bedroom house, real nice, large 1631.
heart with a diamond set in it and an

tell your mother-in-law that you two Please send all gifts (candy, flowers,
living room and kitchen, fully fur­engraving of the back in my hus­
are going on a vacation alone this etc.) to room 311 Breen-Phillips.
nish:!d, close to campus, has burglar Rug, curtains for sale. Call Joe
band's own hand writing. If found,

year? 9-1 Mon. thru Sat. Proxy 
alarm, call Charlie Moore 232-7180. Hughes (1481 ).
or have any information concerning 
it, please call collect 914 834-7675. A

phone calls $5.00. 287-7566. Block party Friday. 5 till 5. 801 & 
733 St. Louis. Plenty of beer.
Summer lease from June 1 to For Sale: Two matching brown and
liberal reward offered. Ouida N.

NEED TYPING? Executary, Inc. 
August 25. Near ND-4 bedroom and white patchwork quilted bedspreads
Bundschuh.

Prefessional Typing Service. 10 ty­Wanted: Three or four roommates 
. 5 bedroom furnished houses. 1 Excellent condition! Best offer. Call
pists -various typestyles. Term needed to share a Notre Dame
bedroom and 3 bedroom furnished 4-5165.
Lost: Two keys on a silver ring at

papers: $.85 page. Resumes: $2.00 Avenue apartment. tall Drew Bauer
apartments. Call 234-2626. 
page. Call 232-0898. Saint Mary's or Notre Dame. if at 1715 or 287-3689.
For sale: Coffee table 60 x 22 x 16.
found call 4-4007. 

Two bedroom house to rent. Sum­Good construction. Nice. ~70. Also,
ENGINEERING OPENINGS. Major Party Friday night 10 p.m.-? NO
mer and-or school year. 1012 Eddy 4 drawer dresser, $25. Call Geoff at
client has needs for all degrees. New Lost: 1 pair of Bauer ice skates, in aprts. 820-3 B Bob, Moon, Tex, &
Street. S120 mo. plus utilities. Call 1078 or come by 519 Flanner.
room 419 of the Administration

graduates or experienced. All tee Chip
Oddies Harris at 232-8563.
paid positions for immediate re­Bldg. Call Tom at 8348. Reward! 
ALL NIKON. FTN body. 28, 50, 135, 
sponse. Send resume or call toll free SMC Students! Save yourself a trip
4 bedrooms, furnished apartment 200mm lenses, cases, filters, etc.
Found: Watch between Grace and 
Library on Monday April 18. Call 

from South Bend. Karl Swank to NO-Observer classifieds are now
within walking distance of campus. Like new. Reply Box K-38 South
Management Services, 1554 W. sold in SMC OBSERVER OFFICE+
Call William Hill, 232-1724. Sum­Bend Tribune.
Franklin St., Elkhart, Ind. 46514. John 6775. Regina South Basement -MWF
mer occupancy only.
Ph. 674-5022. 1:30-3:30, and TT 1-3.
STEREO: Sansui vacuum tube re­Lo~t: Beige cat with white paws and 
Summer rental furnished, four-bed­ceiver, 50-50 watts. Teac reel to
markings. Call 277-1306.

St. Ed's Hall Presents: Sticks and Ed-"Favorite Sundae Man",
room house. $100.00 a month. reel. Garrard turntable with Shure
Bones. April 29 & 30 and May 1st at There once was a girl named El
Phone 277-3604. cartridge. Pioneer 3-way speakers.
Found: A Cross pen . if yours call

8 p.m. in Washington Hall. Tickets Who liked sundaes very well
Include tapes, headphones, micro­283-3510 to identify.
are S.50 and available at the door or When whipped cream she craved
For rent next September. Furnished phones. $575. Call 8382.
from a cast member. By you she was saved
four bedroom house couple blocks Lost: Blue dress hat with dk. blue And an empty tummy was filled.
from Notre Dame. Phone 277-3604. '73 Monte Carlo, emerald green, black vinyl roof, wire wheel covers,
Typing-neatly and accurately. 233-hat band. The type Bogart wore. It's EM T and Katie 
my Uncle's hat. It's important I get0166 after 5 or weekends. 

3 EXCELLENT HOUSES IN FINE bucket seats, immaculate condition.
it back. If you find it or know where Wanted: 3 girls need ride to

NIEGHBORHOODS. Each ideal for 350 4-barrel with dual exhaust, air,
its at please call 3086.

Cooper's Summer Storage. Pick-up Bloomington or Indianapolis April
4-6 students. Cost adjusted to AM-FM stereo tape. $2,950 or best
and delivery· at dorm. Call Mrs. 29. Will pay$$. Call 4-5404.
number of students $225-$300 plus offer. Call 272-5550.
Cooper at 272-3004. A gold timex watch lost near the
utilities. Call Mr. Gatto 234-6688. 
mud pit Saturday. Electric with 

a Grab the dodo before it gets away.
Lovable dodo housebroken, intelli­brown band. Reward! Please callNiles Auction. 802 Fort St. 684-6954 
Apt. for fall in basement. Furnished gent, only $2.00 NO Bookstore..
3746.

or 684-4671. Auction every Friday Alone again? ND-SMC Hotline.
3-bedroom, lounge, kitchen, shower
7:30. We buy and sell furniture, 4-4311 open nights.
private entrance. Clean, excellent For Sale: Bookshelf component ster­
appliances, antiques, and misc. Lost: Orange wallet iri Bookstore
neighborhood. Utilities furnished. eo system. Good condition. Must
items daily 12:00 p.m. to 6 p.m. Tuesday. If found, please call 4-4160 
LOOKING FOR COMPETENT TY­
Call evenings and weekends. 233-sell. 289-2061.
no questions asked. 

PISTS FOR NEXT YEAR'S PRO­4703.
Accurate, fast typing. Mrs. Donoho. DUCTION STAFF. IF INTERESTED
'71 VW bus. Good condition. For
232-0746. Hours: 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. Lost: M inolta Camera Grace Lounge PLEASE FROP A NOTE OFF AT
details call 277-3517.
Sat, 4-23-77. Please return to Fr. 

THE OBSERVER OFFICE OR GIVELOST& FOUND
ENERGY NOW-a high protein food Huneke's office or 306 Grace. John ME A CALL: KAREN 4-5448. product for those who need more THESE ARE PAID POSITIONS.
1607. 

Lost: Gold necklace with single PERSONALSenergy-excellent food for athletes. 
cultured pearl. Great sentimental Lost: A gold key chain with about 9
For information: 233-6581. J.J. Dunne, When can I experience
value. Lost between Walsh and Lost a set of keys at Computing
keys on it and with name charm 

your "good mood" again without
Dillon. Call 8042. Center about a week ago. Call .
Wanted: Three of four roommates "John" attached. Reward offered. you running off? lnten!sted
283-7728.
Call 7096.

needed to share a Notre Dame Lost: pair glasses in light brown
Avenue apartment. Call Drew Bauer Disco Queen, Boogie on down to the
case somewhere(?) Sat. nile. Cam­NOTRE DAME ROWING CLUB
yellow trim

at 1715, or 287-3689. Lost: 1 navy blue with Library for free drinks from roomies
pus View-Nickies-Library. Call1208. RAFFLE RESULTS: I) Mike "Max"
warm-up. Call 8530. Reward. 

on your 19th. LAMBVolberding, 2) Steve Katz, 3) TomGRADUATING THIS SEMESTER? 
Lost: One, non-pierced, gold, hoop Tarikas. The crew thanks all tor your
Found: Pair of glasses. Call Audio

GOT A JOB? Take more into a job Dear Scruggs: It's here, good luck
·earring. Loop one inch in diameter. support.
interview than just a transcript of Visual office. 6423.$ with your recital!!! The assertive
If found, call 8067.
grades. Responsibility, experience, (not aggressive) wopman
Hey Shrimp, Oh my, such a C.S.O.C
Lost: One pair of glasses in a blackpride, be a proven manager of men, 

Lost: 1 dark brown tri-fold wallet Whom is home this weekend? Not 
money and material; be an officer of case. If found, please call Herb WATCH THEMELLONHEAD GET
packed with very important stuff. you. You're wise enough, so good
Glose 3455.

Marines, LaFortune Student Center PUT ON THE CHOPPING BLOCK!
Call Bill 3991 between 8 and 5. times are in store for sure. Really!
Today. WANTED EVERYONE IS INVITED TO AT­
Monster TEND THE MARTY MELLETT
Lost: Red Addeda Jogging JacketTRY SOMETH lNG DIFFERENT during mud bath at Chariot Race. If Wanted: Six tickets to Fiddler on the DEAR GALE WARAPIUS: You ROAST AT K OF C BASEMENT, 
THIS SUMMER. Summer work­found call Hank 3327. Roof-Friday May 20. 287-0742. probably don't remember him, but SAT. APRIL 30, 7:30 p.m. SEMI­
management program, see the sel-FORMAL ATTIRE REQUIRED!
BOB GRIFFIN (of Chicago trip fame; ection team at LaFortune Student 
Lost: Pair filver, metal frame glass­Desperately need ride to Blooming­and also a constant gawker) is madly ­
: Center. Today 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. es, Timex q·.;"trtz watch, and NO ton or Indianapolis for this weekend. in love with you. How about a little Dear Ellen, Happy 19th birthday! class ring. Someone holding them (April 28 or 29) Will pay $$. Call response? HAPPY BIRT....'f! Too bad the macho picture on the Attention Logan -Volunteers: ND­Vicki-6781. wall isn't R. L to keep you company
-::::....~~~-...;.;,_

from Sat. at mud pit. Rich 7495.
sMC Council for the Retarded's on this quspicous o-ccasion! Love,
Guys,
Annual Picnic to be held this Tricia, Nanc and Kathy, your long­
t_ost: gold 1978 Pl. Pleasant H.S. Wanted: Three or four roommates Lonely? Frustrated? Desperate? So
Saturday, April 30, from 1 :00 p.m. needed to share a Notre Dame suffering roomies.
Ring initial Vaike L Reward. Call am I. Contact me at 3579. Call early
till 4:30 p.m. Meet at Holy Cross Avenue apartment. Call Drew Bauer
3857. . and often. Tony
Hall near the lake at 1 :00 p.m. for at 1715, or 287-3689. Ceil, National Seaetary's week has 
the best picnic of the year! Any come and gone without flowers or·
Lost: An 10-type bracelet without a CYNDI 0. Je ··aimerai toujours.
questions or comments call Jeanne Need rider who can drive clutch well fanfare, but we quietly love you and
nameplate. Sentimental value. Call Grizzly 
. Conboy 4347 or Art Koebel 8696. to OKC or Tulsa. Leave 17• Brian know you're the best.
tor Dave 3339.
i---------------2136.
1. Lost: Pair of eyeglasses (black wire> Quick quiz for the Math Retard: HAPPY BIRTHDAY TO THE OB+ in a soft black leather case near What is pi square to the fifth power?
Need ride to Syracuse (May 13); or SERVER'S OWN MOUSEKETEERI Pangborn and Fisher. Reward offer­after esams, no bags, will pay. Your 101 tutors WELOVEYA, ed. Call 3059 . 
Charlie 1620. · The St.tt 
1/i.: ·, ·.l:f '. 

... 
t· .... 'tf ~.. ..,._ ...~·-,····l'(',.,..,...., !;:',,._ .. ~~It'~ ... ~···· ..... ,:-.'1· :" "· 1',...,._................. ~ ··-Jo":~· ...~-_........."!!I,. .... -.u ... -,_~.~ ....~·~--... '! ...~ ...... "!::.-... ~· ......--~ ~,..,"ft'...,~.-.~.,.J"' __ , ~-.....~ .. -... l"'.P·-·,. -,...._...,••.••• -t~_,.• 
12. the obse""ver 


Blue-Gold game dates to Rockne 
I 
I • 
I 
I I 
I 
I 
I 
%Observer 
I 
t ­
Sports 
was the NU end coach. With all prncecds going to the O'Brien widnw, Nntre Dame stars from as far hack as the Four Horsemen team of 1924, returned to play fur lhe Old-Timers. 
Another monumental game came in 1942 when the two teams deadlocked in a 0-0 tic. The games hecamc such a prestigious affair to 
some that Gus Cifelli played tackle
in lhe lineup fur 19 slraight years. ('ifclli was an outstanding lineman for the 1949 championship team and served as assistant line coach fur Hugh Devore in 1%3. In his four season's of play for the Irish ( 1946-49), he never played in a losing game. After graduating from Noire Dame in 1950. Cifelli played five years of pro football ­
three with the Detroit !.ions. 
In the JH years that this format existed the Varsity captured JO of lhe games while the Old-Timers claimed 7 victories and a tic. The spring benefit became known as lhe Blue-Gold game in 1%8 after the Varsily cruised through the last 
three games with a 150-0 point spread. When reviewing the game stor­ics over the past 46 years one reali.~:cs that must of the games
hecame boring routs. Still the slories remain of second string players who opened coaches eyes and made the game a stepping slone to the starting lineup. However. these feats arc few and far between. The second team has never defeated the number one Blue team in the nine years that the Blue-Gold game has been played. 

and Greg Collins shutout the Gold team totaling 36 tackles between them. The next year these two led the number one defense in the nation as the Irish grabbed the NationalChampionship. In the same game a sophomore named Tom Clements ran II times for 95 yards 
• and three touchdowns. He also 
r _, • ~ completed seven of ten passes for over I00 yards including two
~t..... ~·. .Y~.· .-...-· touchdown tosses.J..'J_"-•.· 
AI Samuels looked like an All­American in these spring warm­
( • 

ups but could never break into the 
starting line-up during the regular ,. • season. In two games Samuels ~ ~ ' . 
carried the ball26 times for-214 and ~-three touchdowns. In the past two 
"""" years reserve runningback Steve 

. ~ . .... 
Schmitz has displayed brilliant .· ·,.~·" . r. ...,,. F.~;L., performances. The warm weather 
4 -.. ~ J also seemed to bring out the best in
1 

ex-Irish linebacker Tom "Beast" Eastman. Eastman posted double figures for tackles in both the 1975 and 1976 games. 
Last year the Blue romped over the Gold by a score of 48-7. Jerome~ ,. . . f .•. Y Heavens led the offense with 86 
,...,. "" ~ 

yards in 16 carries. Schmitz
~ I .. . 
hauled in five catches for liS yards 
and one score. Rich Slager also put 
:-·-.--..·~­

in a stellar performance sewing up a 
starting job in the process.
....,! 

This Saturday's game should turn out to be another rout. SomeRusty Lisch, who is presently listed as the number one signal caller new faces will have a chance tofor the Irish, will attempt to continue the Notre Dame tradition of prove themselves as several regu­quality quarterbacks in tomorro)V's Blue-Gold game. 
lars are The 
by Ray O'llrlcn SportH Wrlt«lr 
This Salurday lhe Fighling Irish f<M>Ihall k;un will slage lheir ninth ;uJnu;•l Blut·-(;nld game hul the lratlitinnal st>rin~ dassk adually tlah·s hadf;1rllwr lniiJ29 in the er;1 ..r K null-H<~c:knt·. 
The lt-gt·ndary Hndnc nriginakd I his w;lrm wealher elllrav;•gan;r.a as a nmduding lillie to spring prac­lice. Tht· game has hccn played 
•·vt-rv yt·ar sinn~ IIJ21J with lhc exn.-1•1i~m11f I'HO when Hndne was 
n..-upt·raling  in  Flnrida  frnm  an  
illn•·ss.  
Tht·  omt·  m;1jnr eh;111ge  in  the  

game is that when Hnckne was anliiiHI lhe cnnkst was ealled lhe Olol Timers (;ame heeause it pitted ihe f<~nlhall alumni againsl Uo.-kne's illc11ming ynung stallions. Ac.-nnling to legend. Hoekne -.larkd I he game wilh the idea of making lhe windup 11f spring praditT more interesting. He fell 1hal a game hdween those gradu­aling anti lhnse rl"lurnin~-: would hring nul a hdter effort on I he part of the underclassmen I han if jusl an inter-squad serimma~-:e was hdd. 
This anuual event has quite a hi-.torv. Oue of I he most memora­hk games was the 14J7 eoutest. This game. won hy the Varsity. 7-0. hecame the O'Hrieu Memori:1l (;anw. On Mard1 12. 11U7. Johnny (One-Play) O'Brien. who had him­sdf heel; one of the hernes of the l'l2H .. Win This One Fur the (;ip1wr .. vidory over Army. was killed in an aulomuhilt-aecident. AI the time of his death. o·Brien 

In fact. one side failed to score a point in 20 of the 46 games played. Thcisman showed hints of bril-
Weightlifting 
this Sunday 

The Notre Dame Weight Club will stage a power lift meet this Sunday at I:JO pm in the weight room of the ACC. lifting will be done by weight classes. There is an entry fcc of $1. Further information can he obtained by calling Pete at 1186. 
Football Recruits 
Tht• Fighting Irish add 28 freshmen to their solid 1977 varsity football squad. Quarterbacks seem to be an casv tah· this ~-car. as Notn· D:mte landed four of the top ten high school prospects. 
Tim 1\.cogl'l. a h-4. 185 pound prospect from Cincinatti Moeller. led his team to an unprecedented "cnllld n•n,.ccutin· Ohio stale foothall title. Pete Holihan. who completed 15b passes for 2b75 yards and ~I touchdowns and Mike Court·~· fwm Sioux City. Iowa look to be good draws as well. Rich Beuhner. who al"'' sparkk as a tkknsive hack. completes the list rif top quarterhacks. 
Tim Huffman is tht• major rtYruit as f:lr as linemen. The 6-5. 265 pound recruit from Dallas, Texas will .i••in hwthcr Dan·. Notrt• Dame· s st;Jrting center. The t•omplcte list of the 28 recruits follows 
Bt•b G;~gnon \\lark Pubwski Don 1\.idd ~brty Detmer Jl•hn lbnkl'Hi Stt'VI.' Lll bm Nil·k Vdu Tim Huffman Sti.'W Grindinger 1\.ipp Bedard DJW Ott(l YitKI.' FJ.irhurst Brt•ndan Moynihan Bill A.:romite D-.m Hag_cl'rty Bill Sic:-we Di.:k Bl•ushb Tom Gihhons 
Angell• FJSSJ.Illl Bill Dlir.m Jl•t' \\\•Litt'ak D-Jvc:-Cl•ndc:-ni Petc:-Hl•il•hJ.It Tim 1\.l'•c:-gc:-1 Ri.:k Buc:-hnc:-r Grc:-g "1\..nalef.: \tikc:-Conrey Jim Stonc:­T/G TE/DE T/E TE/E TE/ML T TE/OT 

ur 

RG/LB TE/S TE/DE E/DE LB/S LB/FB LB/G 
c 

CB/FB DB/WR 
s 
DB 
TB/S 
SE 
QB 
QB 
QB 
QB 
QB 
RB 

6-4  235  Regis H.S., Eau Claire, Wise.  
6-3  225  Badin H.S .. Hamilton, Ohio  
6-3  220  Mt. Healthy H.S., Cincinnati, Ohio  
6-3  221  Glenbard West, Glen Ellyn, Ill.  
6-4  225  Lumen Christie H.S., Jackson. Mich.  
6-6  245  Northfield H.S., Mt.Hem10n, Ill.  
6-3  208  St. Xavier H.S., Cincinnati, Ohio  
6-5  265  llwmas Jefferson H.S .. Dallas, Tex.  
6-4  212  Jesuit H.S .. Dallas, Tex.  
6-3  175  Capital H.S .. Boise. Idaho  
6-4  218  Seattle Prep H.S., Seattle, Wash.  
6-3  215  Gonzaga Prep H.S., Spokane, Wash.  
6-3  195  St. John H.S .. Toledo, Ohio  
6-3  ~15  Aquinas H.S.. Southgate, Mich ..  
6-4  225  Card. O'Hara H.S., Springfield, Pa.  
6-5  22Q  Alter H.S .• Kettering, Ohio  
6-4  185  Kaupaun-Mt.Carrnel, Detroit, Mich.  
6-1  185  Ft. Hunt H.S., Alexandria, Va.  
6-3  190  Kiski Area H.S., Vandergrift, Pa.  
6-1  185  Catholic Central H.S., Detroit, Mich.  
6-0  210  Warren Area H.S., Warren, Pa.  
6-1  175  Moeller H.S., Cincinnati, Ohio  
6-4  200  liverpool H.S.,liverpool, N.Y.  
6-4  188  Moeller H.S., Cincinnati, Ohio  
6-0  180  St. Xavier H.S., Louisville, Ky.  
6-4  185  Premontre H.S., Green Bay, Wise.  
6-2  180  Heelan H.S., Sioux City, Iowa  
6-1  180  Kennedy H.S., Seattle, Wash.  

injured. charity liance in the 1970 game running for benefit begins at 2 p.m. Admission two touchdowns and passing for is free for Notre Dame and St. another. In 1972 Drew Mahlich Mary's students. 
Tony Pace:=::::::===-=;=========================================:=====:===:===::::::::::=::::::======:::===========:=================:=:: 
Finley's Follies 
:===================================:=:=:===·=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:===:=:=·=::::::::::::::::Charlie's 
gamble 
Oakland A's owner Charlie Finley is at it once again. With yesterday's trade of pitcher Mike Torrez to the New York Yankees in exchange for pitcher Dock Ellis, utilityman Marty Perez and minor league outfielder Larry Murray. Finley continued his somewhat mysterious revolving door player policy. 
As any sports observer should know, the A's have undergone a dramatic overhaul since the beginning of the 1976 season. Gene Tenace and Rollie Fingers now hang their cleats in San Diego and Joe Rudi and Don Baylor are up the coast in Anaheim. Oaudell Washington, Bert Campinaris. and Paul Lindblad now list Texas as their address. Milwaukee boasts Sal Bando at third base. And, Torrez now joins Reggie Jackson. Catfish Hunter and Ken Holtzman in New York. 
Though Charlie 0. did receive some money in these deals, it does not appear as if the only reason for these transactions was to ameiliorate his financial position. Finley's actions have given him an interesting blend of youth and experience. With the aid of manager Jack McKeon, Finley has surveyed the minor leagues and come up with such talented young players as Mitchell .. The Rage" Page and Rob Piccolo. Page, in fact, iscurrently among the league leaders in runs batted in. Finley is also getting mileage out of such retreads as Dick Allen, Manny Sanguillen, and Stan Bahnsen. 
The Patchwork Team 
Through all of these player movements. Finley seems to be keeping his 
promise to Bowie Kuhn thatheis attempting to rebuild his team without 
paying huge salaries to any free agents. 
While Finley's goal is admirable. it is highly unlikely that the A's 
situation will stabilize in the near future because the older players will 
come and go. Both Ellis and Perez have yet to sign contracts and neither 
is likely to reach any agreement with Finley. Ellis, who is coming off a 
fine 1976 season. is asking for well over $100,000 per season and Perez, a 
iournevman at best. turned down $85.000 across the bay with the Giants. 
·It is v~ry unlikely that either will be at spring training next year. Allenwho 
has bounced around throughout his major league career, is a day to day player who could bolt the team at any time. Sanguillen, who was obtained from Pittsburgh in that strange trade for manager Chuck Tanner, is a fine hitting catcher. but his talent will not be well paid on Finely's club and he may choose to seek more secure quarters. Bahnsen, a former Yankee and White Sox. has seen his better days and could be sent packing at any time. 
Finely's Plan 
Finley is biding his time with the present patchwork team hoping that 
he will be able to discover certain "diamonds in the rough": talented 
players who have yet to get their chance in the big leagues. These 
players. goes Finley's reasoning, will be the stars of the future A's. He is 
getting that talent at bargain basement prices. 
Minor leaguer Murray is indicative of Finley's plan. A seeming throw-in for the Yankees, he is probably the key to the trade. The speedster had little future with the talent-laden Yankees buy Finley saw that he was a demon on the basepaths and a ballhawk in the outfield. The only thing that has kept him in the minors has been his bat. Finley is going to give him a long look. 
The Gamble 
If players like Larry Murray produce for the a's, then Finley will be able to sit back and laugh at all of the free-spending owners. If they don't, the only inhabitants of the Oakland Coliseumn during the summer ~>'ill be the seagulls. 
-






