to UN conference 
Carter appoints Hesburgh 
by Peggy McGuire fo.rmatio~ of a national P?licy. Jean Walsh analyzed the conflict be­. .StaffRe~rter w1lkowsk1! a career foret~n service tween private industry and public Umvers1ty Prestdent Fr. Theo-officer w1th an economics back-interests in an article in the dore. Hesburgh was appoi!lted by ground, will coordinate his efforts. magazine's October issue. "In the Prestdent Carter last Fnday to The. statement is due for com-United\ States, a major sticking se~e as a?Ibassador to the 197? pletwn next May 1. point has been the turns for Umted Nations Conference on Set-Hesburgh, who knew of the transfer of technology," Walsh 
ence and Technology for Develop-said. 
ment (UNCSTD). Hesburgh will appointment three months ago, "Most relevant science and tech­
chair the United States delegation. said that the steering committee At the UNCSTD, each member has already met twice, in July and 
nology here is controlled by private August. The State Department has industry, and industry has formed 
nation will present a statement on allocated $1.2 million to the com-a virtually united front to defend domestic development of science mittee for study and development proprietary rights against what it and technology and assess its of the U.S. policy. This fund will sees as a grab attempt by LDC's," relationship to social, economic, he added. 
and political concerns of the less-finance research by the National 
developed countries (LDC's). Joas Academy of Science and the Na­Hesburgh stated that the U.S. 
Frank da Costa of Brazil, a career tiona! Academy of Engineering. policy will focus on human needs. "The science in industries is a
diplomat, will serve as secretary The U.S. statement will be private science," he commented.
general of the conference. The strong on what science and tech­"We want to find the bearings ofdate and site of the conference nology <:an give," Hesburgh human we're
remain undecided. stated. "The basic point is not just science on life. 
examining the potentialities ofHesburgh will direct a s!eering the economic development of the 
committee of scientists in the less developed countries, but the public science." 
elicitation and consolidation of development of the physical quality This philosophy is very similar to 
views of industry, labor, academia, of life." that of the Overseas Development 
and overnment agencies for the Science Magazine writer John Council, (ODC), a private, Wash­ington-based organization which Hesburgh chairs. The ODC is primarily concerned with meeting the basic human needs of people in underdeveloped countries. 

in addition to his work on the ODC Hesburgh has served on the Na­tional Science Board and as a member of the Rockefeller Founda­tion Board, which deals with matters relating to international development. 

server 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's 
Vol. XII, No. 31 Tuesday, October 11, 1977 
Workers set to fight layoff 
by Mike Ridenour than the mafia." Payton said one man has been Payton said that laundry, main­working here for 44 years and
Staff Reporter tenance, and janitorial workers receives the same money as every­

Notre Dame groundskeepers, were in the process of filing one else. Another worker says "I 
application cards in an attempt to take home $75 a week and buy $20
who are to be laid off as of Nov. 1, are calling for student support in be unionized. ''They stood by to of groceries a week for my family of 
their fight against the University. see what was going to happen to six. Many times we don't eat." 
"We need the students to get us. They were really scared but The fringe benefits include a behind us. So far some of the now they think it's a big joke. week's vacation after working for students have come up to us tc say Everytime one of them rides by one year while a worker receives 
we got a raw deal, we need for the they let us know." two weeks vacation after two years. University to hear it," said Jim Referring to the groundskeepers' After 15 years of work he receives Payton, spokesman for the wages, Payton said he echoed the three weeks of vacation. groundskeepers. sentiments of all the workers. insurance costs $6.07 a week and 
The groundskeepers are seeking "The operators get $3.42 an hour after 10 years of work, Notre Dame unionization and say they will while the regulars receive $3.02. will pay for the entire cost. The continue to fight, although the We don't even get the cost of workers are also allowed three sick University will permanently lay living." [continued on page 4] them off. A Notre Dame official said there was no connection 
Lux named OBUD director
between the layoff and the unioni· 
zation effort, according to the by Frank Lavino Lavender explained that Om­South Bend TribDDe. Notre Dame The Steering Committee of the budsman membership has doubled is planning to bring in an outside 
firm, Cromwell Management, to do Ombudsman Service has appointed this year as a result of Lux's its new director for the 1977-78 assistance. "He took charge of
the groundskeeping work. 
academic year. Robin Lavender, recruitment in the halls and The TribUDe quoted an unidenti· former Ombudsman director, an­brought in 70 to 80 new people,"
fled Notre Dame official as saying 
nounced the appointment of Tom she said. 
an outside firm would do a more 
Lux, who assumed office Oct. 5. 
efficient and less noisy job than the 
The appointment was approved
current groundskeepers. Payton 
Sunday by Student Body President 
responded "There is no way Crom­Dave Bender.
well could come in and do the job 
Lux was chosen from candidates 
any cheaper, more efficiently, or to 
interviewed by the committee early 
be less noisy, than what we are now 
last week. He is a junior account­
presently doing. We get all kinds 
ing major from Cuyahoga, Ohio,
of compliments from visitors on living in Stanford. 
how nice the grounds look." 
Lux sees his primary duties as "developing my own leadership"What I can't understand," 
style" and assuring that the Om­
Payton continued, "is why Notre 
budsman service "is there to help
Dame bought $50,000 worth of new all the time."
machinery about a month ago, if 
"We have to take all requests for 
they knew they were going to have 
a firm such as Cromwell come help and distribute the appropriate 
in manpower," he said.

here to do the work: they have their 
Lux plans to make his organiza­
own machinery. According to one tion more visible on campus. "Tom has shown he can handleNotreDame official this has been in 

"We're running more ads," he the director's responsibilities and.
process for months---it seems to me 
explained. "Changing our number academic pressures and do verya contradiction." 
to OBUD (6283) has already tripled well," added Lavender. 
The groundskeepers first learned our calls. " "Being Ombudsman Director, they would be laid off when they The new director also plans to you may not get any external read the TribUDe last Friday. coordinate the organization of the rewards," explained Lux, "but you Payton asked, "Why weren't we proposed Escort Service "some­get a deep satisfaction inside that 
told? Notre Dame is worse time next week." . you're of service." 
by Maureen Flynn Editorial Editor 
University President Fr. Theo­dore M. Hesburgh fielded ques­tions last night at a meeting of the Faculty Senate, two hours after his annual address to the facutly in Washington Hall. 
The bulk of Hesburgh's remarks 
on administration and faculty af­
fairs were "offthe record" he said, 
because of the "need to be frank" 
with the faculty representatives. 
Hesburgh said he would be willing 
to discuss the issues with the media 
at a future date. 
Among the topics discussed in the initial section of the meeting were the role and structure of the Budget Priorities Committee, fac­ulty retirement age and teaching loads. 
In response to questions on faculty salaries, Hesburgh stressed the University's commitment to bringing Notre Dame salaries up to the level of salaries at peer institutions. "We are determined to equal them,'' Hesburgh said. "The Trustees realize that we can't be one of the leading universities without paying the salaries they pay." 
Hesburgh also welcomed input from the Senate Committee on Administration on qualities and considerations required by the role of provost. The Committee will 'submit its suggestions to a Provost Search Committee that will be appointed by the Academic Council next week. 
'Faculty exemplify values' 
Hesburgh responded openly to questions from senators on the Values Seminar and the role of the faculty in "teaching" values. 
"No one has ever found out how to teach values," the University president noted. "We hope our faculty will exemplify the kinds of people we hope our young people 
will become." 
Hesburgh said that definite plans to require the currently-elec­tive Senior Values Seminar have not been made, but the proposal passed the Academic Council last year by one vote. "I don't believ; 
in one-vote margins," he said. 
Hesbur~h added, "We'll go back 

President Carter appointed Fr. Hesburgh to serve as ambas­sador to the 1979 United Nations Conference on Science and Technology for Development [UNCSTD] last Friday. 
Hesburgh speaks frankly at Faculty Senate meeting 
to the drawing board, start over 
and do it right. We have to find a 
viable way to get leadership." He 
said he hopes to get enough money 
for a five-year training program, 
under which 25 professors would 
volunteer each summer to work 
with professionals in developing 
case . histories and readings for 
semtnar discussions. 
The University would need $1 
million to cover the faculty mem­
bers' summer salaries, Hesburgh 
estimated, "but at the end of the 
five years we would have 125 
faculty members prepared to con­
duct these seminars." 
Hesburgh said the cases would fall into three categories for discus­sion: personal values, professional value, and global problems. The cases would be ''very good, prac­tical, obviously contemporaneous" situations, he explained. "We want our students to confront the kinds of problems the guys in Watergate said they were never confronted with." 
Hesburgh noted the increasing 
interest in higher education in the 
transmission of values as well as 
learning. "If we can learn how to 
do it here," he said, "it will catch 
on all over." The University 
president stated that there is 
nothing exclusively Catholic about 
the aims of the values seminars. 
"What we'll be dealing with are 
fundamental virtues," he ex­
plained, "and we'll b~ trying to 
elicit them from the youngsters 
themselves." 
Hesburgh's appearance before the Faculty Senate was partly in recognition of the tenth anniver­sary of the Senate's existence. "Iwas in favor of the Senate ten 
''Hesburgh stated,

I'm in favor of it now. I think 
w.rfnrm.: a function that is very 
and that will become 
important as time goes on." 
Meeting tonight 
to support 

groundskeepers 
A meeting for all those con­ce~ne~ a_bout. the groundskeeper UDIOntzatiOn lSSUe will be held tonight in the lounge of LaFortune Student Center. Mike Lawrence from the Teamsters will be in attendance. The meeting begins at 
8_pm. 


the observer Tuesday, October 11, 1977 

'Right to life' to receive funds

,...News Briefs----~ 

OCT11-7:JO PM.-UB.AUD. 



N.D.ACADEMICCOMM lSSION 

aggressiveness, which ignores the rights of others. 
The Observer Is published Mon­

The third session will deal with 
day through Friday except during 
specific problem areas, such as
exam and vaatlon periods. Tile. Observer Is published t»y ttle 
making and refusing requests, 
students of Notre Dame 11nd Saint 
receiving criticism, and dealing
Mary's College. Sul»scrlptlons 
with persistent people. Each parti­
may be purchased for no per year (11 o per semester) from The 
cipant will work on individual 
Observer, P.O. lox Q, Notre 
problems during the last session.
Dame, Indiana 46556. SeCIOfld dan postage paid, Notre Dame, 
Those interested in attending the 
Indiana, 46556. 
workshop are asked to register with 
. The Observer Is a memiMr of 
the Counseling Center, 283-1717.
the Astoelated Prell. All repro­duction rights are reserved. 
For further information, ask for Joan Biever. 

Tuesday 9-11 a performance by TONY BEZOUSKA 
coming Thursday 9-11 OPEN STAGE 
by Marti Hogan 
EdJtor·in-Chief 
The Right to Life Committee will receive student government funds this year for the first year as a result of the Student Government Board of Commissioner's decision "to finally take a stand." The board allocated $500 for the com­mittee at the student government 
budget hearings Oct. 2. 

According to Student Body Presi­dent Dave Bender, the decision made by the Board of Commis­sioners was "kind of like the one made for slavery in political terms. Someone finally had to make a decision." Noting that the vote from the board was unanimous, he said "We thought, being a Catholic school, we would stand up for 
Christian principle.'' 
Bender called the action a "question of principle to stand up for, not a political que.stion to answer. The right to dectde what these principles are, he. a~~~d, is included in the responstblltttes of 
the student body president. 
He explained that what is right may not always be what the students want. "The way I envision leadership is to transcentd some of the rhetoric to decide what is right,'' he said. 
J.P. Russell, chairman of the Hall President's Council and board member, pointed out that six of the eight board members were elected to represent the students. "We all received the mandate to use our best judgment in day-to-day sit­uations. It's part of what leader­ship is all about," he explained. 
"I'm pleased as punch that we have the guts to decide in favor of what might prove an unpopular decision," he added 
Russell explained that although Right to Life did not apply for funds last year they did in 1975 and were turned down. Russell attributes the change in attitude to the change of leaders in the past few years. 
"I think student leaders three 


f!~~d:.,~~~;~u~:~l
Asst.night Editor:. Tracy Herman Layout Staff: Margie Brassil, Eve Tunkelrott, Marte Me-gargle, Jim Veral~i Features !Layout: Dave 0 ­Keefe 
Sports: Greg Solmon & "The 
Stallion" Typists: Gwen Coleman, Sue Scribner, Nellie Liang, Lisa Di Valeria Night Controller: Mike Bodle Day Edito1r:· Lynn Roberts 
Copy Editor: Ann Grzybowski Ad Layout: Deborah West­rope 

lPhotographer: Julie Palafol5J 
years ago wouldn't risk putting Bender has received calls and their heads on chopping blocks,'' letters from five to ten students he said adding that Notre Dame is who praised the board's decision. lucky to have a "student leader Also, $200 was added to the who will do what he believes in." student lobby allocation to cover 
While Bender admitted that a cost of right to life lobbying wltich referendum would be ''the ideal will include lobbying for the handi­way" to find out the students' capped, the elderly and the un­preferences, he indicated that it born. would be impossible. He did say. The Right to Life Committee however, that if the students originally had requested $1000, but wanted all the money from student the board cut the allocation in half. 
government to stay in Student Some of the cut money was Government and Student Union it deferred ·into the student lobby would be acceptable to him. allocation, according to Gary Lu­chini, Student Life Council repre­
Only one student has protested sentative and board member.
the board's decision to Bender so 
far. "In his opinion, everyone "Right to Life asked for money toshould have freedom of choice and lobby, but we didn't think thehe felt our decision was cutting committee would be very effective away his freedom," Bender report­by itself. We included money ined. 
the student lobby allocation for Technically the student cannot right to life and told them: to goappeal the decision because, ac­
through student government,''
cording to the student government Luchini said. 
constitution, only clubs who ap­The student lobby budget wasplied for and did not receive funds originally set at $900, but Peteare eligible to appeal. 
Tobben, Student Government trea­
Bender, however, .encouraged· surer, cut it to $500. He based the the student to write a letter or cut on the fact that last year the statement to all members of the lobby used only $370 of its money. 
council, and said that if three board To cover the Right to Life lobbies, 
members believe they might­however, the board agreed to raise 
change their minds they may call a the lobby allocation to $700. meeting to reconsider their deci­In deciding to allocate money to sion. As of yet, Bender has not the committee, the board tried to 
received the letter. [continued on paae 4] 
~ ....................., 
: A NEW RECORD STORE IS : :NOW OPEN IN SOUTH BEND!: 
:RiverCity Records: 
• One of Indiana's Largest Record Stores •
• 
•• Featuring a full line of rock, pop, jazz, •• 
blues, soul and bluegrass records & tapes! Also official concert tour T-shirts, •
• 
posters and belt buckles, cut-outs, im­• ports, magazines, blank tapes, record • 
care products and River City Concert • Tickets! (Pick up your copy of The River • • City Review today!) • 
• STAFF: • • Pater Kernan, owner [ND '75] Jody Gormley [ND '77] • Parry Aberli, manager [ND '69] Pater Murphy [ND '78] • Bruce Reaves, assistant manager Randy Varga • Chris Kernan, assist. manager [ND '78] Karen Aberll • Brenda Fleece [SMC '77 • 
.-------•COUPON•--------..50cOFFANYL.P.ORTAPE ~-'
NtJ. 
• WITH THIS COUPON! , , • 
• (Now thru Oct. 20) · • 
• River City Records • 
• 50970 U.S. 31 North (Next to Ray's Quality Foods) • South Bend
I.
••••••••••••••••••277-4242 .. 
f ;. 
Tuesday, October 11, 1977 the ObServer 3 
I 
t




Campaign ~o fund professorships 
by Bob Varettoni Senior Staff Reporter 

Fr. Theodore Hesburgh, Univer­sity President. said yesterday he is "not very happy" with the number of minority students enrolled at Notre Dame. 
Addressing ND faculty and staff members in Washington Hall, Res­burgh said the number of minority faculty members is ''the most cation in general, Hesburgh said,dismal figure of them all." "It's very bad, and I'm disappointed in "First we put on an enthusiastic spurt for quality, then we put on ait," he added. 
spurt for eauality. But in doing the 
Hesburgh noted that the number second we forgot the fil'st. We are of minority faculty has declined giving people equal opportunity to from 49 to 45 in the last seven an education that isn't worth years. The total number of faculty having, in many cases." members has increased 748 to 793 Hesburgh projected a 5600,000­at the same time. 700,000 budget deficit for tl:te 
University this year. He citelt On the state of minority edu-higher costs for energy and salary 
United Way campaign stresses drive for individual contribution 
Drew John Bauer Senior Staff Reporter 

A daily thermometer chart in The Observer showing each hall's level 
• of participation inthis year's United Way campaign and the distribution of green shamrock pins are some of the ways the d~ive is trying to unite the student body said J.P. Russell, student director of the drive. The campaign I started yesterday and wiii continue through next Monday 
Although it hasn't been the case in the past, this is one of the few things, outside of athletics, that we can do together as a student body 
instead  of individuals,''  he  con­ 
tinued.  
The  Hall  Presidents  Council  

Chairman added that ''in the past the campaign was a real rush job. Each hall would find gimmicks to raise money, such as football lotteries, bake sales or ugly men contests. Sometimes, these gim­micks ran for weeks." Last year's contribution averaged $.33 per 
student. 
Russell said that the overall goal of the drive is "100 percent participation of all the campus students. "We are placing more emphasis on everyone contribution a dollar or more rather than trying to reach a fixed monetary amount." He added that this year the campaign wiii run in every hall for one week. Last night, mem-
Mexican jail 

run by prisoners 
GUADALAJARA, Mexico [AP] ­Rioting among prisoners at the Jalisco state penitentiary kiiied at least 17 inmates yesterday and more than 2,000 convicts later took control of the institution. 
Deputy Warden Jose Luiz AI­manzor said the violence erupted at about 9 a.m. when two bands of convicts seeking to control drug traffic within the prison began fighting one another. Inmates told reporters the clash was sparked by terrorists who broke out of their i so Iat ion cellblock. 
At least eight persons were injured, including two guards, authorities said. The 17 dead inmates were reported stabbed or beaten to death. 
All guards were removed from the prison towers and interior by mid-afternoon, authorities said, and several thousand inmates roamed freely within the cellblocks and the central recreation plaza. Newsmen said the inmates were quiet but in control of the institu­tion. 
Almanzor had said earlier that state police managed to control the rioting within l 1/1 hours after it had begun. 
The prison in Guadalajara, 345 miles west of Mexico City, has 2,300 inmates including 17 Ameri­cans being held on smuggling or drug related charges. None of the Americans were reported injured. One American inmate who asked not to be identified told a reporter he spent the morning carrying dead and wounded from the prison yard to the administrative offices. He 
bers of each hall began contacting hall residents "one-on-one" to appeal for contributions. Although one dollar is the suggested dona­tion, Russell stressed that he believes people are ''very capable of contributing more than that amount.'' 
Each night, the halls wiii. phone in to the Ombudsman the percent, age of hall members that gave at least a dollar. This percentage wiii then be shown in a graph appear-. ing daily on page three in The 
Observer this week. "I'm looking forward to a good competitive spirit among the halls as we all work towards this charitable cause," Russell stated. Additionally, green shamrock pins wiii be given to those students who give at least a dollar. Russell said that the purpose of the graph and the pins is to make people aware of the drive and ''letting them make a personal statement that they care about the the city." "It is hard to believe that every student on this campus can't give at least a dollar to this organization considering where the funding goes," noted Brother Joe Mc­Taggart, of Campus Ministry. 


CDC sponsors career workshop 
St. Mary's Career Development 
Center (CDC) is sponsoring a 
program designed to aid students 
in decision-making. 
A series of eight workshops will 
cover the basic elements of deci­
sion-making as well as technical 
aspects of career search. 
The workshops are open to all St. 
Mary's and Notre Dame students, 
who can sign up by visiting a CDC 
session. The first meetings wiii be 
held today in the Student Affairs 
Conference Room. This week's list 
of workshops is listed below: 
--.Today, from 3 to 5 p.m. 
"Interview Skills," in the Student 
Affairs Conference Room. 
--Wednesday, from 3 to 5 p.m. 
"Assertive Training," in the Sta­
pleton Conference Room. 
--Thursday, from 3 to 5 p.m. 
"Work Values," in the Executive 
Board Room. 

"Every student who works at Volunteer Services or one of these other organizations wiii benefit from money from this drive." 
Among the 34 service agencies that benefit from the United Way are: Catholic Social Service, Alco­holism Council, cancer Society, American Red Cross, Urban League, Boy Scouts, YWCA and the YMCA. "We have to see ourselves as part os the city of Sout Bend," McTaggart commented. "And this is' for the city. We are not temporary residents at Notre Dame for four years: we are 
permanent residents of South Bend." 
Russell said that he and McTag­gart did not have enought time to organize a drive to encompass off-campus, law and graduate stu­dents. However, he said that they might set up a booth in either the LaFortune lobby or the Huddle in the next week where these students could contribute. "Although all of us are part of this area the off-campus people are even more part of it, and they benefit more because of the United Fund,'' Rus­
sell added. 
raises to non-academic employees as reasons. Faculty salaries will continue to increase, he added. , 
"This is a firm decision on our part," Hesburgh said. "Despite our budget deficit we will still be able to make jumps in faculty salaries as we have in the past two years." 
The Campaign for Notre Dame is "going very well," according to Hesburgh. He thanked James Frick, vice-presicient of Public Re­lations and Development say­ing,"This thing's been planned •so well you'df think he had a crystal ball." 
Hesburgh said pledges to set up 
professorships ha~e been going 
especially well. He noted that 
pledges for athletic facilities have 
been the highest, even though this 
area bas been "downplayed" in 
the campaign. 
Fr. Charles Sheedy, professor of theology, is one member of an experimental Office of Academic Ombudsman, Hesburgh announ­ced. Hesburgh recently set up the Office to "introduce informality and flexibility'' into the relation­ship between the faculty and the administration. 
The Ombudsman, Hesburgh said, will act as sort of a "marriage counselor'' in settling differences between administration and faculty members. Hesburgh said be hopes to add two more members to be new office, an experiment which Hesburgh will review at the end of the year. 
Hesburgh also thanks former Provost Fr. James Burtchaell for his ''brilliant and marvelous lead­ership these last seven years." Hesburgh reviewed the procedure to select a new provost with the , faculty and staff members. He said he hoped to have a nomination for the position ready for the spring meeting of the Board of Trustees. 
Fr. Ferdinand Brown, acting 
Provost, introduced Hesburgh and 
led an opening prayer. 



A Comedy of Errors 
Shakespeare's merry masquerade. Odober7, 8, 13, 14, 15 
ata:OO p.m. 
All seats $2.50 
O'Laughlin ($2 Std-Fac-Staff} Phone: 284-4176 

Auditorium 
SEASON TICKETS STILL AVAILABLE .................... 
4 PLAYS $9 ($7 Std-Fac-Staff) Includes: COMEDY OF ERRORS, CAUCASIAN CHALK CIRCLE, TOUCH OF A POET, and THE 



Saint Mary's College Students 
ring is back See the complete display at the Saint .Mary's College Bookstore 
Ask For Balfour 
Oct. 17&18 for Xmas delivery 
United 



WO.Yat_N.o. 

PARTICIPATION CHART 


·I 

AL BA BP CR cv 01 FL GR HC KE LE LY MO p~ SE so ST WA ZA 
said he was threatened by rioting 
J

RATIO IS II STUDENTS CONTRIBUTING $1.00 OR MORE DIVIDED BY TOTAL NUMBER OF STUDENTS
inmates but authorities granted him protection. 
the observer Tuesday, (kjober11, 1977 

Irish women win nobel for peace movement 
OSLO, Norway [API -Two women who started a peace move­ment in Northern Ireland and a London-based organization that works for political prisoners won Nobel peace prizes yesterday. 
The Nobel committee of the Norwegian parliament awarded the 1977 prize to the London organiza­tion, Amnesty International, for 16 years of effort on behalf of "pri­soners of conscience" and against torture and the death penalty. 
It gave the 1976 prize to. Betty Williams, 33, and Mairead Corri­gan, 32, for organizing a broad­based "Peace People's" move­ment to end eight years of fighting in their homeland between Protes­tant and Catholic extremists. 
The women launched the cam­paign more than six months after the Feb. 1 deadline for peace prize nominations last year, when all SO candidates were rejected and nc awar<i was given. Soviet dissident Andrei Sakharov won it in 1975. 
Mrs. Williams said in London: "We've only been going 14 months and other people have been going for years. But I know how hard we worked and perhaps after all we have earned it." 
Miss Corrigan, moved to tears by the news, said in Belfast: "I accept the prize on behalf of everyone throughout the world who works and longs for peace and the many people who have suffered and have been jailed in the interests of promoting peace." 
The prizes are worth $141,600 to Mrs. Williams and Miss Corrigan and $145,000 to Amnesty Interna­tional. 
Amnesty was the lOth organiza­tion to win the peace prize. In selecting it over 53 other candi­dates, the Nobel committee called 1977 "the year dedicated to prison­ers of conscience." 
The organization , it said, "has given practical, humanitarian and unpartial support to people im­prisoned because of theii racial, religious or political beliefs." 
~~nesty was founded in 1961 b~ Bnttsh attorney Peter Benenson. Sean MacBride of Ireland, a former peace prize winner, once served 85 its chairman. It claims to be the largest human rights organization in the world with about 100,000 members in 78 countries, a budget of $1.5 million and a file of 4,000 current cases. 
The organization attempts to win freedom for political prisoners through publicity and lobbying, sends them comforts and letters, cares for their families, and hires lawyers and keeps watch on their court cases. 
An Amnesty International spokesman said: "We are de­lighted to win the Nobel peace prize. We knew our name had been put forward but we had no inkling that we would win." 
The Nobel committee cited the Ulster women's "initiative to end the violence which has marked the unfortunate disintegration in 
Groundskeepers seek support 
[continued from pagell 
The groundskeepers work from 8 
a.m. to 4:30 p.m. with a half hour break in the morning as well as in the afternoon. 
Tomorrow's 10 a.m. public hear­ing at the County-City Building will provide the groundskeepers a chance to get the University's side of the issue. Notre Dame will be represented by "one of the best management law firms in the Midwest,'' according to Fred Towe, an Indianapolis lawyer re­presenting the groundskeepers. The Chicago law firm, Seyfarth, Shaw, Fairweather & Geraldson, will "attempt to present docu­ments," Towe said, "that will prove the University has had this process in the works for months." 
Towe will file an unfair labor practice charge against Notre Dame. He will then attempt to prove there was no economic justification in the University's decision to contract Cromwell Man­agement. Towe also will advance arguments showing that the deci­sion made was on the spur of the moment. 
Towe's goal will be to stop Notre Dame's attempt to finalize its decision concerning the Nov. 1 date. Indianapolis newspapers and televisions have been alerted by 
Longshoremen's strike closes New Orleans port 
NEW ORLEANS [API -The shut­shore wages, but you've got the down of the nation's second-largest money that the crews off the ships port in a longshoremen's strike is spend here," says Edward Reed, threatening steel shipments to the port director. "You've got the Midwest and grain exports to bunkers of fuel oil, the supplies foreign countries. But the impact that ships buy. You've got the 
is greatest on the city of New normal fees that the ships pay to Orleans itself. the port authority. 
"Two-thirds of the economy of "You've got the wages of people this area is related to the water­involved indirectly, ship chandlers, front," H.G. Joffray, director of freight forwarders, custom house port operations, said Monday. "So brokers. You know the whole if you shut two-thirds of it off, the smear. Thev're all static." dollars aren't coming in. 
Reed sail the bulk of the cargo1 "People start socking that buck coming into the port is destined for away and keeping it for red beans somewhere else, so supply short­and rice," he said. 
ages caused by an extended strikeThe strike, part of a work ''would occur all the way up thestoppage that began Oct. 1 at East Mississippi Valley." 
and Gulf Coast ports by the Because the walkout is limited in
International Longshoremen's 
other ports, supplies of criticalAssociation, is cutting an estimated goods can be dirverted from NewS2 million a day from the area Orleans. 
economy. Unlike workers else­where who are refusing to handle Meanwhile, talks aimed at set­only containerized cargo, the New tling the ILA walkout are at a Orleans longshoremen are striking standstill. Federal mediators last all cargo. met with representatives of ship-
Containerized shipments account ping organizations late last week in for about 60 percent of the cargo at Washington and no progress was the Port of New York, but only reported. about 25 percent here. The union's chief concern is job 
"You've not only got the long-security. · 

******************­
nterested in Law School? 
Professor John F. Hicks of The University of Tulsa College of Law will be on campus Wednesday, October 19, 9:00 a.m. to 2:30 p.m. to speak with interested pre-law students. Tulsa is a fully-acaedited, rapidly expanding law school. For further details, contact: Michael J. Kelly, Notre Dame Pre-Law Society. 
The University of Tulsa College of Law 
3120 East 4th Place 
Tulsa, OK 74104 
The University of Tulsa has an Equal Opportunity­Affirmative Action Program for students and ern­
~plo~.Ar********.......,.
.......~.......,...........-
Towe to Notre Dame's decision of laying off the groundskeepers. "I want as much publicity as pos­sible," Towe commented. "Notre Dame is supposed to be one of the leading centers for human rights. But this decision contradicts what they preach. I want it known that they fail to apply it at their own university.'' 
Pro-lifers plan effective year 
[continued from page 2] 
consider what kind of effect it 
would have on the student body as 
a whole. Bender said that Student 
Union was probably the only group 
to reach all the students, but that 
Right to Life plans to reach as many 
students as possible this year. 
"Right to Life will touch every­one this year because it is going to allthe halls," he explained. The committee hopes to provide educa­tional material for student talks in the halls and to bring Mildred Jefferson, president of the national Right to Life Committee, to cam­pus. The committee also will sponsor the right to Life mass held in Sacred Heart on Jan. 2, the anniversary of the Supreme Court 
decision to legalize abortion. 
Northern Ireland, and which has cost so many lives. "Mairead Corrigan and Betty Williams acted out of a deep conviction that individual people can do meaningful efforts for peace through conciliatory work," it said. 
The two Roman Catholic women launched their movement in August 1976 after Mrs. Williams saw three children killed by a runaway car whose guerrilla driver had been shot by British soldiers in Belfast. Miss Corrigan was the aunt of the slain children. 
Braving threats on their lives by 
extremists they organized peaceful marches by thousands of Protes­tants and Catholics in Northern Ireland, the Irish Republic and England. Last year they traveled to the United States to urge Ameri­cans to stop sending money to the 
combatants. 
So widespread was the sentiment in Norway for honoring them last year that Norwegian newspapers raised $325,000 and gave it to them as a "People's Peace Prize." They used the money for a trust fund to create jobs, care for orphans and repair the devastation in mster. 
In a recent interview, Mrs. Williams said the peace campaign had passed "out of the limelight" and became a "grass roots" effort by more then 100 peace groups. 
"Because of the Peace People, there are Protestant and Catholics who are talking to each other for the first time in 10 years, if not longer," she said. "The level of violence has· dropped sharply. I'm not saying it's all our doing, but I'm sure we were a big factor." 
The women were the seventh and eighth Britons to win the peace prize and the first from Northern Ireland. MacBride shared the prize with Japan's Eisaku Sato in 1974. 
Sixteen Americans have won the peace prize, the last was Henry Kissinger, who shared it in 1973 with his North Vietnamese ne­gotiating partner, Le Due Tho, for arranging a cease-fire in Vietnam. Le Due Tho refused to accept the award. 
CILA IS NOW ACCEPTING ORAWINGS, PHOTOGRAPHS, AND ANY OTHER IDEAS FOR ITS ANNUAL CHRISTMAS CARD SALE5 
Contact Student Activities Office in Fortune for details. Deadline is Wed., Oct. 12. 
TUESDAY NIGHT 7.:00. 3:00 

two cans for $1.00 



MIDNITE MADNESS! 


HAPPY HOUR AT 'Pinocchio's 2 pitchers for the price ofone Monday and Tuesday i 4-7pm Stroh's 2for $2.40 Miller Lite 2for$2.65 Michelob· 2for $2.95 SERVING • N.Y. style Neapolitan Pizza • Chicago Deep Dish Pizza f Other Italian Dishes and Sandwiches ·t DELIVERY ON CAMPUS 75~~·~~.,..'• .AI 277-4522 lt~n._ ·-t.... georgetown.shopping plaza emmons road south bend I  1  

so 
• 
Tuesday, October 11, 1977 the observer -5 



ND/SMC Theatre 
·TH·E COMEDY OF ERRORS 


Kate Smelser 

The ND-SMC speech and drama depart­ment has set for itself a difficult task in undertaking Shakespeare's The Comedy of Errors. The task is difficult because the play, one of Shakespeare's earliest, served a.s a testing ground for the young playwright's immature skills and, under­standably, lacks the absolute control of language and profound character studies present in his great dramas. Instead of battling these flaws, however, the ND­SMC company chose to exploit them in a production which earned a standing ova­tion from Saturday night's audience. 
Shakespeare's plot is an elaboration on the already complicated Menaecbml by Plautus. In the opening scene, Aegeon, an ancient merchant from Syracuse, sum­marizes for the rest of the cast the story so far. A shipwreck many years before has separated him and his wife and two sets of twins: their twin sons, ilnd their sons' twin servants. Each parent 'has been rescued with one son and one servant, but have never reunited. Eighteen years after the wreck, the son and servant with whom Aegeon was saved, Antipholus and Dromio, set out to find their respective twins. Wandering alone ever since, Aegeon has now entered Ephesus, una­ware that any Syracusan found in Ephesus, an enemy of Syracuse, must pay a one-thousand mark fine or die. Solinus, the Duke of Ephesus, grants Aegeon a day in which to raise the impossible sum.· 
The two main complications in the plot arise from two unlikely coincidences. Antipholus and Dromio, still looking for their twins, land that same day in Ephesus, which for many years now has been the home of their lost brothers, also named Antipholus and Dromio. 
The resulting action, saturated with slapstick and clownish violence, involves the confusion of these two sets of identical twins by the Ephesian Antipholus' wife, sister-in-law, servants and creditors. Even the two Antipholi and Dromios confuse master and man, giving and receiving conflicting orders. The drama reaches a climax when all four twins meet on stage at once. 
Shakespeare's plot complications are the script's greatest asset, although he also experiments with some characterizations which will gain more depth in later works. Luciana serves as an early study of the prudent maiden: gentle, sympathetic, and in some ways like Portia in The Merchant of Venice. The Duke, Solinus, represents Shakespeare's first attempt to create the perfect Renaissance Prince, a personifica­tion of dignity and justice. Unfortunately, serious characters like these become absurd in a plot that makes fools of all the players. Such incongruities betray Shakes­peare's inexperie~;~ce. 
The ND-SMC Theatre group wisely ignores the serious elements in The 
Comedy of Errors. Whimsical make-up( de­signed by Lisa Colaluca) and outlandish costumes transform the cast into a troop of marionettes. They dangle about a set (designed by David Weber) which, despite the distracting, cheap appearance of corrugated cardboard, echos those symme­trical relationships responsible for so much confusion among the characters. 
Aegeon's deadly plight, with which Shakespeare intended to elicit the audience's sincerest pity, became a source of merriment as the cast, like puppets, acts out the shipwreck story and pretends to cry at its conclusion. Even the impending death of Aegeon (played by Jack Campbell) gives rise to hilarity with the introduction of a black-hooded executioner (Peter 

*Observer 




Features 
Reiher) who is a lampoon of all hunch­backed, brute-like laboratory assistants employed· by the monster makers at Universal studios. 
Hardly the personification of dignity, Solinus (Mark S. Grimsich) wears bright orange make-up and a wig to match, creating the impression that Ephesus is 
governed by. Bozo. The presence of such a ruler makes Ephesus a land where impos­sibilities are highly probable. 
Lisa Jaquez' Luciana, Shakespeare's intentions aside, is a pretty but imbicilic maiden whose "prudence" consists of reciting platitudes praising men's super­iority over women. 
The time was once when thou 
unurged 
wouldst vow 
That never words were music to 
thine ear, 
That never object pleasing in thine 
eye, 
That never touch well welcome to 
thy hand, 
That never meat sweet-savored in 
thy taste, 
Unless I spake, or looked, or 
touched, or 
carved to thee. 
Luciana's whining voice and the childish way she plays with her fan during these lines of Elizabethan wisdom demonstrate their vacuity. Jacquez' decision to satirize the Luciana character results in one of the most entertaining, albeit uneven, perfor­mances of the evening. 
Patrick Marks and Matt McKenzie play the Antipholus twins, Syracusan .and 
Ephesian respectively. Appropriate to a character "highly beloved" by his fellow townspeople, McKenzie feels at home in all areas of the set, knowing how to structure the space around his body through gesture as befit his speeches. Patrick Marks, the brother from Syracuse, appears less at ease, although in his wooing of Luciana and his 1soliloquies. on love he executes an amusing satire of the frustrated lover. At other times he suffers fits of indecision as to where to put his arms. 
In keeping with the farcical tone, Michele Roberge portrays Antipholus of Ephesus' wife Adriana as a shrew, the comic-book stereotype of the nagging wife. Roberge encounters some difficulties, however, in effecting this two-dimensional interpretation, since Shakespeare has given Adriana some unmistakeably tender lines, and perhaps the most appealing speech in the play 
The beasts, the fishes, and the winged fowls, Are their males subjects, and at their controls. Men, more divine, the masters of all these, Lords of the wide world, and the watery seas, Indued with intellectual sense and souls, 
Of more pre-eminence than fish and fowls Are masters to their females, and their lords: Then let your will attend on their accords. 
After three acts of Adriana's bitter complaining at the top of Roberge's brassy voice, her line, "Ah, but I think him better than I say ...My heart prays for him, though my tongue do curse," fails to ring true . 
. Still such a bellicose wife is a good match for the swaggering Ephesian Antipholus, and Roberge maintains a congruity be­tween Adriana and the other characters. 
The two Dromios take responsibility for most of the evening's mirth. Sean Coleman plays Dromio of Syracuse to Dave Bllison's Ephesian Dromio, two look-alikes with distinctly different personalities. Cole­man's Syracusian delights in rude jokes about Luce, the fat kitchen wench, and scurries about the stage with a puppy's frantic enthusiasm. In contrast to Cole­man's light-hearted energy, Ellison's Dromio is a long-suffering Emmet Kelly. He endures countless unjust beatings and married life with Luce (Lisa Turco) with a martyr's patience. 
Diana Hawfield directed The Comedy of Errors. From the opening scene Hawfield demonstrates a talent for unusual interpre­tation of comedy, but a marked lack of ability in structuring the space on a stage. Apparently incapable of arranging players in groups of four or more, she begins the drama with actors scattered randomly in useless strings of two and three. Ne­glecting this aspect of direction leads to a graceless exit of no fewer than twenty actors at the same time through the same narrow doorway in the last act. 
The audience gladly overlooks these imperfections once they are won ~>Ver by the fantastic atmosphere and sense of fun which inspires the cast and crew. ND-SMC Theatre will present The Comedy of Errors three more times: October 13, 14, and 15. 



MICHAEL MOLINELLI 

the observer Tuesday, October 11, 1977 

Committee outlines emergency energy plan 
WASHINGTON [API-The new Department of Energy has ser­iously overestimated its abilitv_ to cope with another cold winter and resulting natural gas shortages, a congressional report says. 
Federal officials have said they will be able to make up 60 percent 
Of expected shortages like those 
that closed schools and factories last winter. 
But in a report released yes­terday, a Senate committee 5aid, "the federal government wilJI not be in a position to help very much," even though it credited officials with doing more than ever to deal with anticipated short,a~~-~ 
The subcommittee on inter-gov­ernmental relations based its con­clusions on three days of hearings in which official outlined a Winter Emergency Energy Plan for 1977-78. 
"Another cold winter is on its way and we are not ready for what it may bring," said Senator Edmund S. Muskie(D-Maine) the panel's chairman. 1 

The report's authors said they were impressed with both the detail and scope of the emergency energy plan, prepared by the Federal Energy Administration (FEA). The FEA's responsibilities have been taken over by the new Department of Energy, which went 
into existence on Oct. 1. 

The subcommittee report said that the mere existence of the plan represents a far higher level of concern than the federal government has shown previously. 
But at the same time -it said the plan "appears to seriously overestimate the government's ability to increase natural gas supplies and decrease demand should another cold winter bring about natural gas curtailments." 
Testifying at the subcommittee hearings, government and private long-term weather forecasters said the nation can expect the coming . winter to be significantly colder ithan normal, although not as cold 
'is the winter of 1976-77. 

Other witnesses said substantial
1 
natural gas curtailments can be, expected as early as November. 
Last winter, frigid temperatures swept across some two thirds of the country in January _and stayed locked in place until spring. 
A reduction of electric power occured in some Eastern States and 
cutoffs  began  in  natural  gas  
supplies  to  large  industrial  and  
commercial users.  

Th(; subcommittee noted 
that by January 31, 4,000 factories had been closed and 400,000 workers laid off. By the 
end of last winter, the report said, "1.2 million Americans would be out of work temporarily becuase of the cold." 
It said that while the federal plan is based on the assumption that government action can reduce the expected natural gas shortage by 60 percent, a 22 per cent reduction is the more realistic outcome. 
"If these figures were correct, we could clearly go a long way toward easing the impact of any shortfalls this year," Muskie said. '"unfortunately, the numbers in 

DNA: To~ic ofPBC address 
by Maureen Eyres 
Ted Howard of the People's Business Commission (PBC) will address the social, moral, and ethical implications of Recombi~­ant DNA research and genettc engineering in a program entitled "Who Should Play God" today, at 7:30p.m. in the Library Auditor­ium. 

Recominant DNA is a recnetly ganism's DNA segments, thus developed technique that recom­forming the general basis for .new bines DNA segments (the basic livin~ and multiplying organtsms that don't exist in nature.
material that determines the her­editary characteristics of life) from 
It was the PBC, formerly the People's Bicentennial Commission, 

two different organisms. The process became possible which circulated a letter in the dormitories last February. 
when scientists discovered that The letter alleged that Dr. Rob­DI'!IA segments had "sticky" ends, ert J. Erickson, assistant facultywtlich under the proper laboratory fellow in microbiology at the Uni­could be fastened to another or­
\ versity and currently conducting 

genetic resear·ch funded by Miles Laboratories, in South Bend, was "secretly experimenting with a dangerous and highly volatile tech­nology ... producing novel new 

$14,000 raised to search 
for missing IU student 
CAMBRIDGE CITY* Ind. [API-Residents of this small eastern lndiana city have raised more than $14,000 in cash and pledges to launch an advertising blitz in the search for Indiana University coed Ann Louise Harmeier. 
So far, six billboards between 
~=:b~~~~ele~:~da:rdd!~~~':t:!~~ 
asking, "Where is Ann?" Bumper
stickers with the same question have been distributed in southern Indian, along with posters bearing the 20 year-old Harmeier's picture. 
The young woman has been
missing almost a month., She was last seen Sept. 12, standing beside her disabled car along Indiana 37 north of Martinsville. She was ~~:;.g to the IU campus from her 
There have been no solid leads on her fate or whereabouts.
The case has gained widespread new coverage, and the missing coed's mother, Marjorie Harmeier, 
said articles and advertisements 



~rf~~r~:~~;af!~a:a~~~n~~e!:~na~ 
A groups of Cambridge City residents also is working on a radio program and a 30-minute television 
documentary to be aired in Bloom­
ington, the mother said. Four of the billboards are being sponsored by Harmeier's sorority,
Psi Iota Xi, and will display the 
coed's picture. 
David Weston, principal of Du­blin School in Cambridge City and head of an ad hoc citizens search committee, said the money raised 
'forms of life' never before existent in the naturat evolutionary order.'' 

cash -part of that from special The allegations raised much collections by churches. controversy surrounding DNA re-The advertising push is the latest search on this campus as well as effort by the committee to find others. Erickson's work did not Harmeier. even fall under the strict guidelines 
More than 100 volunteers, some of the National Institute of Health of them from the Bloomington (NIH) which were created to reg-area, joined law enforcement agen-. ulate DNA experimentations. 
the emergency energy report do not stand up under careful scrutiny." 
.Jie said that in.sQme cases tile government doe11 not have the authority to take the actions '"lt proposes. In others, he said the 
authority will not be available until 
late into the season. And he said that while the administration plan bases reliance on the states as a front line of defense, many states lack authority to act in an energy 
emergency. The report made five recommend it said would improve the administ­ration's emergency plan: -The administration should beg­in negotiations immediately with Canada to but additional natural gas this win~er. Congress should enact legis­lation granting President Carter authority to allocate natural gas supplies. In order to protect jobs that might otherwise be lost, Congress should consider giving the Presi­dent power to reallocate small am­
mounts of natural gas to pipelines experiencing shortfalls from those which are not. 
The administration should ex­tend the Special Crisis Intervention Program, which helped two million persons pay last winter's fuel bills. 
-it should also urge the Depart­ment of Energy to act immediately to ease the special problems affect­
· ing the distribution of natural gas in New England 
'Amnesty'exhibit to close Friday 
The "Artists for Amnesty" ex­hibit, currently being shown in the East Gallery of the O'Shaughnessy Art Gallery, will close Oct. 14. 
The exhibit features a series of posters designed by fifteen interna­tionally known artists for Amnesty International, the human rights organization that has been working on behalf of political prisoners around the world for the past fifteen years. 
Posters can be bought for $20 or $25 for the Miro and Calder designs. 
The O'Shaughnessy Art Gallery is open 10 a.m. -4:45 p.m. on weekdays and 1-5 on weekends. 




13liJI 
~11313()~ ~1()1-il

()(1.11 

10 -12pm 
3PBR'S FOR A BUCK! 
drawings for beer paraphenalia; T-shirts, posters, plaques, 
ETC 
• 

~~~src~esi~ie~~~v:re~i.r i:~~d~:;~~~ ****;;;t·~·********************
densely wooded Morgan-Monroe ~ 
State Forest. Some of them '?' searched on foot in the Paoli and ~ French Lick areas farther south ;., after a psychic said Harmeier "J' 
mightbeinthearea. i{
Eighty Cambridge City residents ~ traveled to Bloomington the first "1' weekend after the disappearance to ~ 
distribute handbills seeking infor-"1' mation about Harmeier. 
! 
~ 

need resumes in a ~ 
IRS y•pr1n S 
hurry?  .M "1'  
..  
~  
~  ~~:  £  
"<~  ·  "1'  
• .:  ~­ ~  
•  • , I  I,..(IJ~.'ltffi;.' 1 • I ~  'i  ·  f ~ "1'  

"J' , ...., the wiz of the print~ biz! "1' 
rag bond ~ 

· I'"?' 
2 5 -8 1/2 X 1 1 $2. 55 1C 
~ 

203 N. Mam "1' 
ss~o~fu~r~i~n~cl~u~d~es~m;o;r~e~th~a;n~$;4;·;000;;;in~~;So~Be~n~d~~~~~2;8;9;-;6;9;7~.1~
R 1ie 1?1..1..1311?1 
tlt:l>t:t l'iJillcliJitlfll1 ~ 
:v'.'-'~~~~~ ,.,"'.:.~ LJ()1£ I !
-_ •11 ~ II I 1ft ~ 
.._ (()1£~~C. ~ 
-1
~'"' s~ 1ft I"''IIIIIIU ~ 
Notre Dame Club of New ~ork, Inc. • 
'' 
PRESENTS it
it
NOTRE DAME ARMY it
VS ~ 
'ir"1' 
p p rty/ R II · ~ 
re-gam e a a y ~'"?' Roosevelt Hotel 
.. 
~ 
46th and Madl·son Ave N y c "1' 
• • • • ~ 
Fri. Oct. 14, 1977 7pm to 11pm ~~ 
*NO Cheerleaders ~ 
* Band 
· *Cash Bar *Bagpipers
*Raffle Who's invited? 
"1' 
~ 
"1' 
~ 
"1'
iC 
~ 
"J' 
~ 
"1' 
iC
Alumni, students iC 
and friends of Notre Dame ~ 
<AMONG THE INVITED SPECIAL GUESTS ARE: Father Joyce, Moose ~ Krause, Col. Jack Stephens, Tim Ryan, Don Criqui, Joe Garagiola, Angelo "1' 
Bertelliandmanyothers.) ~ 
s2 ND/SMCstudents with ID ~ 

U ~1-4~rn ();\~(~ '***~;:;~~:~!~**********~
. .,•.,...,,•.•-.-~-1'"'••...,'14.·.,·.-.·.-.·.~,-.,·.·..,-.-.-,~'!'1-,.-.; .... ~-~~.,.·J/l·., .....-,.-4-.-,•.,~-....,-A-If-.-.--:.,l'f!'l•ll••.w•.•·•-•r~.""'I'.·,..JI~-'.~ ~. , .....-.~ , "'~' .J • '·-''44M~ ~~V•"'.I~..!~JJti'J"JJ'~·.·'('-'~""••.r .1".v'J.Ir.· ·~·rr~~~·r-'~~!l~.t'~ 
A, .......l.i"JC~-......... .s;"'_,. li.Jr.Jr,-r.t• • ••lr""'o'/'" tl otr •• • ~L• 

a a 
Tuesday, October 11, 1977 

7 

PBC fights genetic engineering 


Help make a pregnant lady ha;·ny on her
Desperately need 2-4 GA tickets to Navy. Please

WANTED birthday: her tickc • to
help. Call 4-4956. sell husband a USC 

(Student or GA). Call Mark 288-746t."$ NOTICES Fewer Wanted ads. 
Babysitter wanted for 2infants. Weekdays 3 to 4 
1 Student season ticket. Call 8364.
c
p.m. 233-9535 or 289-3668.

Girls!! Organizational meeting for all Interested Working or college girl to share 2-bedroom apt.In Women's Swim Club. Thursday, October 13, 
near IUSB. Call 288-2418. Two GA basketball tickets, for best offer. Call
Need Five USC GA tickets. Call Jim 8376.

at 6:45 p.m. In Ubrary Auditorium. Questions 
Greg, 1159. contact Women's Athletic Department or call 2 student USC tickets. Will pay $. Call Suzy or 
I need ~ Ga USC tix. Name price. Call 8182.

8051. PERSONALS
Diane 5148. Address, "S wanted immediately!'Work at home-­
Learn to play pocket billiards in the poolroom of Hey East ..~oast!! Wanted 2-4 Army tix. Call
Need six GA Clemson tix. Call Leo 287-7051. 
no expe Jnce necessary-excellent pay. Write Mary Lou 6845.

LaFortune Student Center under the Huddle. 
I
America! Service, 8350 Park Lane, Suite 269,

Just see the student manager on duty_ for help. 
Need six Southern Cal tix. Mark 287-7051. 
Dallas, T/.. 75t31. Chris & Bill, Part-time choose your own hours. Interesting, Anyone with USC tickets. No gimmicks, I just ---------------------I understand you didn't drink Indiana dry 
good paying positions with new local magazine. Need tix ,or any home game. Call Sharon 1261. Sunday, but therl are rumors about a severe
need 2 GA's and I'm willing to pay for them. 
Must have car. Call Dan 272-5549 after 5 p.m. drought in the South Bend area. Happy 21. G
Dave 6589. 
USC stu ent or GA tix wanted. West coast clients 
a

Sewing repairs. Reasonable. Call 8051. Would love to go to Washington, D.C. area for will pay 1nmium. 272-7360 after 6 p.m. Christmas Shop with AVON Kathy 7947 for 
s 
specials!

break, but I need a ride. Call France (6907) if you 
Will pay $$ for 2 GA Georgie Tech tix. Mark

Accurate, fast typing. Mrs. Donoho. 232-0746 can help. Thanks. Hours: 8 am to 6 pm. 8927. Hello to Mike, Don, Dan, Tom, John, (who did I forget??) G
Desperately need 2 Ga tickets to USC. Will pay 
Will pay $$for 2 GA USC tix. Mark 8927.

Typing. Reasonable rates. Call 8051. 
any amount. Marylou 4980. 
Notre Dame bowling league is now forming,
5 USC tickets. Call Paul at 1424. 
s 
in

NEED QUALITY TYPING? Executary, Inc. Available. 1 student ticket USC. NEEDED-1 GA Thursday nights, 9:00 p.m. Regal Lanes 
Professional Typing Service. IBM Correcting or stu. tic. Ga. Tech. Call1136. Misha­
4 GA tickets for Southern Cal. Will pay good

Selectrics. $.85 per page minimum. Call 232-0898 waka. Call 288-2614. 
bucks. Call1423, ask for Mike.

"When you want the Best" Desperately need 3 GA tickets to USC. Will pay anything. Judie 4980. 
Flight to NYC at X-mas -round trip $92. Full Experienced minstrels. Serenading a specialty. Need 4 USC GA tix. Will pay$, call Ron 1423. payment at Student Activities Office LaFortune Wed. Oct. 12 Final Day.
Call Ringo and Jester 8243. Need a USC ticket. Call 6814. 
•
Desperately need 6 GA tix to any home game. 
Call Chris at 1158.

Logan volunteers and interested students: Hallo­After all that print I bet you all want to know who
Ride needed for Oct. break to Wash. D.C. area. 
ween Dance this Wednesday night, Oct. 12, 7:30 Call Donna 8042. Iivas in 1011 Flanner, don't you? Come find out!! 
One student USC ticket. Call Chuck at 1436.

p.m. till10:00 p.m. in the Logan Cafeteria. Dress 
I

up in a costume and join in the fun. Any Could it be Steve Odland???
Des!' ·"1tely need 1 USC GA tix. Doug 3336 or 
I WILL BE FOREVER INDEBTED TO YOU if you

questions call Art Koebel (287-7509) or Jeanne 333:' 
see! a pair (2) of GA tickets for the USC game. My parents want to come and cheer for old Notre Happy B-day. At times life is just not fair-like

Conboy (284-4391). Fred, 
Sev· _,, tickets to Army game. Call Lynchie at 
Dame. Will pay$$$$$. Call Mary 1313. birthdays.

CONTACT LENS WEARERS. Save on brand 142·, name hard and soft lens supplies. Send for free T.A.M. illustrated catalog. Contact Lens Supplies, Box 
SMC chick desperately needs tickets. Will be

NEED 10.' to Boston-Providence area for 
VERY grateful and pay ANY price. 4-4089. 
f•

7453, Phoenix, Arizona 85011. Octobf'' ';reak. Will pay, drive. Call Pat 4-4146. Pat &Loretta, 
Thanks amillion for the ID's. G
Five GA tix for USC. Call Telana 4-5745.

4 GA G: ,c tix. Call Frank 287-3844. Pay topFOR RENT dollar' KATHY LEW IS FINALLY LEGAL IN WISCON­
Need 2 Southern Cal tix. Beth 272-2340. 
SIN. WATCH HER DEB-OUT IN DOCKSIDERS 

Inspirational mural. Often used to watch over Gat that man th 1se tickets!! G AND PAINTER PANTS AT THE SILVER athletic events. Contact Memorial Library. Only SPRING HOUSE FURING BREAK.
4 USC tickets. Will pay good bucks. Call Jim at 1419. 
I

available weekdays and some weekends. Need 2 GA til ~dts for Navy & Air Force. Call 
Claire 289-6530. Don:
Energetic students !rom each hall interested in 
There never were any doubts; how could there
earning good money. Success equals your input.

LOST & FOUND Need 2-4 GA tiY for Army game at Meadowlands. be. So, when are you coming?
Call Mike, Du lac Seriagraphs, Ltd. 8422.

Call Jim 1185. The yoyo of your life Lost: 1 pair of gold-rimmed Bi-Focal glasses at 
4 GA or student USC tix. Call Steph 4-5424.

Pep Rally. Contact Kevin 1391. 
NEED 1 ticket (student or GA) to Air Force Kathy Lew-Lew:
e

game. Please call 4-4809. How can Farley football fail with Fuchs' foremost
Help! Desperately need 2-5 USC tickets. Mary­

Lost: Silver I. D. bracelet at football game Sat. If fox? Happy Birthday
anne 3887.

found call Ellen 7962. HELP! Desperate damsel direly desires a ride to The G.P.'s Boston-N. England for break. Will share ex·· 
One pair of football shoes, size 10.5-11. Tom

Lost: Black leather wallet. Need license and other penses. Make like a hero. Call Ana 8828. Paula,
8270.

I. D. Reward call Robert 1465. My love life needs a boost. How about the So. Cal vs. NO football tickets. Oct. 22. Sport's multi-media show in the library Aud. Friday
Need ride to Kansas after USC game. Will share

Lost or stolen: Brown, suede McGregor coat. On 
d

Tour, 3050 W. 7th Street, L.A., Calif. 90005 (213) nite? 7 or 8:30 p.m.? I'll pay (it's free). Much 
expenses. Call Mike 1679.

Oct. 3, S. Dining Hall. Return and no questions 
384-1951. Will pay$$. Also could use 4tix for any love,
asked. 272-5786. home game. Bob B.
Need 1 Ga ticket to USC. Any price. Gall 1043. Lost: Brown wallet in ACC racquetball court. DESPERATE: Need a ride to TALLAHASSEE Girls, once in a lifetime chance!! 
save my love life!! Need 3 GA USC tix for

Reward. Call Mark 1723. area at start of October break. Will share Stanford Hall, Section 2 North-South, is now
girlfriend and parents! Call Rocco, 1386. 

expenses and driving. Call Bill 8858. taking applications for an evening of SHEER Found: 10 bracelet. 256-0819. Please call to ECSTASY. Dates are now being so,!Jght for the
Need ride to Cincinnati, Hamilton, or vicinity on

identify. Please. Need football tix to any home game. Call Nov. 5 CSN concert. Seats are available on the
Friday 21, October. Share expenses Jeff 8994.

289-6255. main floor in rows 2-7: Center stage!! If Found: On sidewalk 1976 Holy Cross preparatory interested call: Rooms 229, 230, 231, 232, 233,
Wanted: An answer to "If I should Die.. .''

class ring. Call Denise 4-5402. 234, 236, 237, 240, 241, 243. Don't forget, tell a
a
saturday night, Library Aud. 7 or 8:30 p.m. 
friend!!
Come with your answer.

Found: Pair of girls' shoes at the DT section party 
y

in Morrissey Friday night. Call 3414. 
Want$$? Need So. Cal. vs. N D football tix. Oct. Dillon:
Need ride to Omaha for fall break. Call Colin,

22. Sport's Tour at 3050 W. 7th St. L.A., Calif. Now that you've got your flag out of our hall, get
Lost: Black leather wallet in ACC. Personal items 90005. Call (213) 384-1951. Could also use 4 tix 8689. your mother's out of our rooms! are important to owner. Please return, call 3116. Grace
for any home game. 
Need ride to and-or from N.Y. state Oct. 14 Found: One student football ticket outside 
weekend. Call Tim 1045. 
d

Will be disowned by parents if I don't get 2 USC C & P,
Rocco's. Call Observer office to identify. 
tix. Will pay$$$$. Call Greg at 1217. are they pink or blue?
---Need soemone to drive acar to New London, Ct. 
Carey
(anytime during October). Phone 291-1561.

Lost: A navy blue Notre Dame windbreaker. 
Wanted SC tickets, will pay premium. Call collectLined. Brand new. No name. Left in North Dining 
714-498-3000. Matt and Dillon's Fabulous Fifteen-
USC GA tickets for parents. Please call 4-4774.

Hall. Call Frank 3215. Thanks for the great weekend!! Love, one-sixth Desperately need 3 or 4 tickets to USC game. of Dayton's Dirty Dozen, Mariellen and susan
S·

Lost: National Semiconductor calculater In 
(Call 287-8479) You name the price! 
FOR SALE

O'Shag. Reward. Call 3336 or 3333. Green MGB 76. Needs new parent. Great Will pay big bucks for 2good SC tix. Mike 3643. condition! Call Shari 4981.
Garage Sale: Huddle on Oct. 4. To claim them call Diane 7883. 
Found: Silver wire-rimmed glasses outside the 
Sliver tea set, baby things, live plants, bicycle

Desperately need 1 USC ticket. Good$. Call Mike Big Fig and Mat Maid: 109 and THS miss you.
and bicycle parts, bed frames•. clothes and many

3119. No.'s 20, 60, & 22, Angel and Legs say that
miscellaneous treasures. 9a.m. to 5 p.m. Friday,

Lost: One purple jacket with white pirate and Lingulni, Zucchini, TLP, Willie, are waiting for
Oct. 14 and Sat., Oct. 15 at 52800 W. Cypress

Miltonvale. Call Mike 1679. 
Desperately need ride for two to North Jersey [or you. Hurry home. Love, Doc & Mom Fig
Circle pn Greenbriar Edition north of Cleveland 

even close) Oct. 23. Rob 1145. 
Rd.] Every Item priced to sail.

Lost: Puppy on Fri., Oct. 7 near Nickles. Black Jan Poiutski,with brown paws and white marking on chest 
4 tickets together to any home game. Call Wave you learned how to put you weapon
AUDIO OUTLET: Stereo equipment, tv's, CB's.

area. Please call 232-7457. 289-9530 (Debbie) after 6 p.m. together yet? Love,
Wholesale. Call 7781. 
Your big brother. 

_j 
[continued from page 6] 
The PBC is a non-profit, ed~ ucational organization established to increase public awareness of corporate power and policies. The PBC has access to the major corporations which are sponsoring research in recombinant DNA. 
Howard, along with Jeremy Rif­kin, director of PBC, are the main investigators of the subject and have gathered enough information on recombinant DNA and genetic engineering to testify before the subcommittee on Health and! the Environment in the House of Representatives. They have dis­covered that there are eight ways to create lives other than mating. · 
According to Ken Rotts, program consultant for New Line Presenta­tions, the corporation sponsoring Howard, "PBC is the peoples' lobbyist against recombination. Howard's speech will bring to light questions the public must face upon the application of genetic engineering, such as the effect the new thecnology have on the en­vironment, who will determine the difference between normal genes and defective, who will take con­trol. We hear that life is being created artifially but we don't know the ramifications. This is where Howard's program is effective." 
The PBC advocates a morator­ium on the new technology to allow mankind to decide a course of action. 
The controversy facing scientists is whether or not they should proceed with the discoveries of recombinant DNA and genetic engineering. One side. of the conflict holds that the possible new 
forriis of life would improve life, 
with the creation of new food crops 
or a new form of medicine, gene 
therapy, which would treat hered­
itary disease. 
On the other side of the argu­
ment scientists question whether or 
not the human species should be 
altered. Howard and the PBC 
address the social and ethical 
questions of the discovery and 
recommend a moratorium. 
Terry Joiner, Student Union Academic Comissioner, the spon­sor of Howard's speech, com­mented on the upcoming visit of 
,Howard. "In about a year, the 
subject and controversy of genetic 
engineering is really going to hit. 
The A!,:ademic Commission's policy 
is to get speakers in a variety of 
topics, which sometimes touch 
upon !controversy,'' he said. 
:. 


w a 

= 
the observer Tuesday, Ck1ober11, 1977
8 

,
' 
r 
I' 
I 
I 
r I I l I 
I 
! 

Find out what all the excitement's about tonight at 7:30 as the 1977-78 Irish leers stage their 2nd annual hockey exposition at the ACC. 
Purdue wins Irish tourney­Notre Dame finishes fourth 
by Tom Desmond Sports Writer 
A talented and deep Purdue University golf team captured the annual Notre Dame Golf Invita­tiona! Sunday afternoon on the Burke Memorial Course. 
The Boilermakers tallied a 377 total, just four shots over the tournament record set last year by 
the Irish, in pacing a weather-
depleted field of seven teams. Cold 
temperatures and threatening skies reduced the originally slated field of 12 down to the seven quads that 
competed Sunday. 
Tri-State University captured second place with 384 while Illinois State took third at 389. The Notre Dame Gold team finished in the number-four position with a score of 393. The non-scoring Notre Dame Blues faired better than their counterparts of the G?ld squad as the five-man team fimsh:d at. 388. 
Dave Schultz of the Umverstty of Wisconsin-Milwaukee took the me­dalist trophy with a one-under par 

70. Schultz opened with a birdie and finished birdie-birdie to offset two bogies en route to establishing a new tournament record. Notre Dame's John Lundgren held the mark with a 71 last fall. 
Sophomore Dave Knee paced the Irish, tying for second with a 74. Tim Saurs and John Lundgren were 
the only other Gold team members 
to shoot sub-80 rounds as both
finished at 79. Jay Bryan (77) and 
Biv Wadden (76) lead the way for the Blues. 
In action on Saturday the Irish defeated Tri-State at Tri-State in a dual encounter,374-382. Saurs, Tom McCarthy and Rich Knee all scored one-over par 73's to tie for medalist honors. 
Sunday's Invitational closes out the fall season for Coach Noel O'Sullivan's golfers as they now look _to ~he. full sl~te of du~l meets and tnvttattonals tn the spnng. 
U A. = 

~ ---------:---. --------~------­
Craig Chvai=:=:=:=:=::::::::::::::·:=:==================:=:=:=:=======:==================:====:==:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;::==::::::=:::·:·:·:·=-:·:=:·:·:-:-:-:­
Here's to many more 
-:·:·:·:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:,:-:;:;:,:,:;:,:,:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:.:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:::::::;::=-:::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:::::::::·:::::·:·:-:-:·:-=·:·:Baseball beat 
Perhaps Kansas City Royal second baseman Frank White put itbest after his team was beaten 5-3 by the New York Yankees in the fifth and deciding game of the American League championship series. "What a joke. You play hard for six months and eight innings and it all goes up in smoke in one fatal inning." 
For many teams, however, the season is even shorter. Thanks to major league baseball's antiquat­ed playoff format, 22 of 26 teams hang up their spikes come October 1. Compare this ratio to the National Football League, where eight ofits 28 entries compete in the playoffs. In pro basketball and hockey, the playoffs are almost as drawn out as the regular seasons. 
Although baseball set an all-time attendance record in 1977, there still remains financial difficulty, due in a large part to rapidly-escalating player salaries. There is obviously something amiss when the Philadelphia Phillies draw a club record of 2, 700,000 fans and still barely even. 
While the George Steinbrenners, Gene Autrys, and Ray Kroes chase around the continent signing free agents, the remainder of baseball's owners have sat back and ignored an often-suggested, sure fire method of boosting fan interest and attendance. Simply, to inaugurate interleague play and expand the playoff field. 
Believe it or not, this idea is over half a century old, according to Chicago White Sox President Bill Veeck, who along with Vice-President Roland Hemond, was the architect of the "Miracle on 35th Street" this summer on Chicago's South Side. "In 1922,my daddy, who was then President of the Chicago Cubs, proposed to the major leagues that they have interleague play," says Veeck. "Now, its 55 years later, and interleague play is still a frightening new idea." 
Veeck, who is universally regarded as a maverick among baseball owners, is still pushing his father's idea, but lack of cooperation from his contemporaries is once again standing in the way of progress. T_he prospect of interleague play was brought up at maJor 
league owners' meetings in March and July, and was voted dov:;ii .:ach time. 
It is hard to fathom why major league baseball has been so reluctant to accept interleague play and to expand the playoff format. September is perennially the slowest month at the turnstiles, and more teams contending for playoff berths couldn't help but boost sagging attendance. 
Veeck also points out the fact that a team that comes on strong in the second half of the season only to fall short of first place is often the strongest team in the division by October. There is also the question of just how much of a difference there is between a .617 and a .602 percentage played out over 162 games. 
If Veeck had his druthers, the season would be shortened by a week at both the beginning and the end to accomodate the additional playoff games. "The season starts too early, ends too late, and there are too many games in between," says Veeck. The owners often claim that with the ever-rising operating costs, a 162 game season is imperative, but as Veeck rightly points out, "You don't make up your operating costs during the last part of the year." And a larger playoff field would certainly make those tail-end-of the-season games more attractive to potential customers. 
Ideally, Veeck would like to see interleague play and a realignment of the divisions before adding a wild card team, but as Veeck himself says, "The purists don't like to see things change." 
But lest we wait another 55 years for interleague play, the playoff format could be expanded now. Taking the divisional winners, and the two teams with the next-best records in each league, regardless of division, would increase interest and attendance in September. And who could argue that the addition of Baltimore, Boston, Cincinnati and Pittsburgh would detract from the quality of play? 
Of course the owners could stand still for another 55 years and see more and more fans spending their Septembers and Octobers raking leaves. 
Bears hand Rams a 24-23 upset 
%Observer 
Bob Ave!Hni hurled three touch­down passes, bombs of 70 and 72 yards to James Scott and a 29-yard strike to Greg Latta, to give the 
~ 
Chicago Bears a 24-23 victory over the Los Angeles Rams Monday night. 
Sportie.o~
Avellini's passes to Scott both came in the first bald, but the Rams led 16-14 at intermission on three ~~o.-----------------------·--". ·­
fi ld 1 b R f 1 S · d 
te goa s Y a ae eptien an a
2-yard touchdown run by Lawrence McCutcheon. Early in the fourth quarter Bob Thomas put the Bears ahead with a 33-yard field goal. Then Walter Payton's 51-yard run from scrim­mage set up Avellini's TD pass to Latta that clinched the National Football League game with 6:08 left. The Rams held their 16-14 lead through the third quarter, but 
on the next-to-last play of the period, Doug Planck picked off the third of four interceptions thrown by Joe Namath. 
Plank returned it 2u yards to the Chicago 28 and Avellini completed three passes for 36 yards to set up Thomas' field goal that gave the Bears a 17-16 lead. 
Late in the third quarter the Rams pulled off a double reverse with Billy Waddy gaining 30 yards to the Chicago 5-yard line. The Rams pounded to the 1 on three running plays and instead of going for an easy field goal, tried for a touchrlown. 

Ted Robinson·::;:;:;:;:;:::-:;:::::·:·:-:-:-:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:-:·:;:;:·:-:;:::::::::::;:;:,:::::::::::::::·:::::::::::;:;:;:;:;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:;:::::::::::::::;:::::::::::::·:·:·:·:·:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:·:·:·:·:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-=-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-::·:·:::
I I 
I I New York, New York(?)
I 
'~ :;::;:;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:::·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:-:-:-:-:·:·:·:·:-:-:-:·:·:·:·:·:·:::·:::::::·:::::::::::::::::::::::::·:::;:;:;:;:;:::::::::::;:;:::::::::::::::::::::;:::::::::::::::::::;:;:;:;:;:;:::::::::::::::::::;:;:::::::::::::::::::::::::·:::·:·:·:-:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:One man's view 
' 
There was Tom Lasorda, oblivous to the hurricane-like conditions, hugging each one of his "sons," better known to baseball fans as the Los
' 
I Angeles Dodgers. In this era of increasing unrest and decreasing enthusiasm in sports, it was a pleasure indeed to this witness a diminutive~ gray-haired Italian, with a career won-lost record of 0-4 as a pitcher, enjoying the moment of victory. 
r 
Before the start of the National League Championship Series, I doubt if 
t 
very many knowledgeable baseball fans gave the Dodgers much of a' chance of beating the Philadelphia Phillies. After all, this was the Phillie
I 
club that had an extraordinary home record, an awesome power duo of
I 
Greg Luzinski and Mike Schmidt, the National League's top winner in
I 
Steve Carlton. and. most importantly, the home field advantage. 
Well, you can throw all the theories out, because the Dodgers are the team preparing to open the World Series tomorrow night. And no one is happier about it than Tom Lasorda. 
Here is a man who waited for what seemed like an eternity for baseball's Methuselah, Walter Alston, to step down from the manager's post with the Dodgers. He brought a boyish enthusiasm to spring training this year, in sharp contrast to the quiet professionalism always preached by Alston. He instilled a feeling of togetherness and pride on a ballclub whose tradition speaks for itself. Moreover, he gave them confidence in their ability to overtake the two-time World Champion Cincinnati Reds. 
After the first month of the season, there wasn't a doubt in any Dodger player's mind that they were the team to beat. Not even the mid-season acquisition of Tom Seaver by the Reds could change that feeling of superiority. And, true to form, the Dodgers never had a serious challenge. 
. So, while many baseball observers had their money riding on the Phillies, the Dodgers had their own self-confidence working. After losing the first game in their own ball park, they bounced back with a decisive second-game victory to even the series. 
Returning to Philadelphia, they could have easily buckled under the pressure of the raucous Phillie crowd. And it appeared Friday as if they Davalillo with two outs in the ninth ignited the rally. From that point, the Dodgers seemed to have things under control. Manny Mota hit a ball farther than he has hit one for about 10 years, the Dodgers got the break on a close call at first and Bill Russell singled up the middle, and the Phillies were dead. 
The teams went out and played a ball game Saturday night that never should have started, but it didn't matter. Carlton wasn't the same, nor were the rest of the Phillies. They became baffled by the sinkerball deliveries of Tommy John. Despite the vocal support of 65,000 fans, the Phillies were beaten the previous afternoon by that drag bunt and drive to the wall (by Mota). 
Now, its a Dodger-Yankee World Series, the first since 1963. The Yankees will be carrying a great deal of momentum after their miraculous comeback win last night. Yet, its no different than what the Dodgers did Friday. When the count reached nine, both clubs reached for a little extra. Lasorda and Billy Martin must be believers in divine intervention, by now. 
For Lasorda, he couldn't have hoped for a better script in his first season (a chance to win it all by beating the hated Yankees). Will he have Frank Sinatra around to throw out the first ball in the third game at Dodger Stadium? If it isn't Sinatra, Lasorda will find a way to instill a special motivation in his players. 
Billy Martin doesn't have to find a special motivation---all he needs is a close call at first. Whether or not his tantrums lead to motivating the Yankees may never be known, but the fact remains that Martin is a winner. 
Its a refreshing sight to see a manager like Tom Lasorda in the majors. Its a lot better to see him win, especially the way the Dodgers won this week. But, its doubtful if his string can continue. If he had another lefty starter and one bullpen ace, the Dodgers would be heavy favorites. However, the Dodgers won't be able to throttle the Yankee bats the way the Royal pitching staff did. So, watch·for the Yankees in six with Catfish Hunter coming through with a win. 
Hockey ticket 
pick-up 
this week 
A total of I 000 seats arc avauable as student season tickets for the 1977-78 hockey season. There are three types of season tickets avail­able to the students. The 13 game pass will enable to the student to witness all the home games. Another type of season ticket will allow the student to see either the Friday night or Saturday night game of the series. 
Tickets will be sold on a first come, first serve basis at the Ticket Windows on the second floor of the ACC as follows: Notre Dame and St. Mary's students -Tuesday through Thursday, October 11-13 from 8:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. 
Each student may present only his own lD card. Students desiring adjacent seats must purchase their tickets at the same time. 
Prices for the tickets are as follows: 
Notre Dame and St. Mary's Students: First Game of the Series $7.00 Second Game of Series $6.00 Both Game of Series $13.00 Notre Dame Married Students Student (Same as Above) 
Spouse (First Game of Series) $10.00 " . Spouse (Second Game of $9.00 Spouse (Both Game of $19.50 
No season tickets will be sold 
October 13. Single game ticket $1.50 for students. 
Any student who has purchased a ticket must use same times to pick up their 
·passes. All.distribution will be on first-come, first-sef'.·"d basis. 








