
-~------------------­

Students oppose stricter security in stadium 



server 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary'sVol. XII, No. 51 Thursday, November 17, 1977 
HPC sponsors Round-Table meetings 
by Frank Laurino Rizzo. "This gave the meeting more of a social aspect." 
Notre Dame Security, student Rizzo explained that earlier attitudes towards academic pres­meetings had centered on prede­sures, and Notre Dame-St. Mary's 
·termined topics. ''The old topics social interaction were among the were too abstract and did not bear subjects discussed lastnight at this on what section leaders really deal semester's first Round Table Meet­with,'' she said. "Now, inter-sec­
ing at LaFortune Student Center. tion activities can be organized." Discussions concerned drinking
Organized by the Hall Presidents regulations and social gatherings at Council Round Table Committee both campuses, late-semester aca­(HPCRTC), the informal gathering demic pressures, and SMC basket­brought hall section leaders togeth­ball ticket distribution. 

er to discuss problems and situa­tions concerning campus life. Opinions were most prevalent 
concerning the Nov. 8 rape of twoJayne Rizzo, HPCRTC member St. Mary's students. In thatand Lyons Hall President, termed discussion, Notre DameSecurity wathe meeting a success. "Everyone termed "insufficient" and "mis­seemed to appreciate this chance to directed" by some section leaders. 
gether," she said. 
"Why do I get a parking ticket in 

Although Round Table Meetings are in their fourth semester, last an empty parking lot when, two 
days later, two girls get raped onnight's session was the first which campus?" a Grace Hall sectioninvolved section leaders from St. 
leader asked. "Something's
Mary's. 
wrong." ,
"Interaction between sections 
A section leader from Lewis said from both Notre Dame and St. 

she has tried to convince girls notMary's was possible tonight," said to walk alone at night. However, she added, "I personally don't think most girls feel they're in danger on this campus. I don't
Women vital to resistance movement 
think they worry about going anywhere at any time." by Bill Delaney Squella described herself as a subject because it is too broad." "Working women understand A LeMans section leader noted 
Latin American Countries are ec­member of a growing leftist "Latin She placed much emphasis on the that they must work side by side that "lights won't stop attacks. onomically depressed because they American resistance movement role of women in the resistance with the men to overthrow the Neither will walking in twos or are "dependent on the imperialism against foreign imperialism." The (Continued on 2.) threes, even with a guy. You can't of foreign business interests,'' working class in these underde­fight someone with a gun." according to Marl Squella, an veloped countries lives in poverty, Some students proposed the exiled Chilean sociologist. Squella ·she pointed out, while American placement of a security post on the talked about politics and social business makes 15 billion dollars of road between Notre Dame and St. upheaval in Latin America, em­clear profit'' each year. Because of Mary's. "It's the obvious an­pha~izing the role of women before imperialism, she said, profit mar­swer,'' one student said. One an audience of about SO students gins are much higher for U.S. student commented on the security and faculty members in the library business interests in underdevel­problem saying, "There's more of auditorium. oped countries. a community awareness on both 
After the military junta and the The military diStatorship-in chile, campuses between the girls and assassination of President Allende Squella explained, needs the mil­the guys." in Chile, Squella said she was lions of dollars that it gets from Section leaders were generally arrested several times, held in U.S. business to stay in power. enthusiastic about the meeting. solitary confinement, tortured and "I am confident that when the "It's a great way to talk over iinally exiled. Momentary tears people become organized, there common problems," one said. came into her eyes as she told of will be fundamental social change,' "If this was held on a weekly her experience in prison and of her Squella said. "We don't want basis,'' another stated, "we could friends who have disappeared or violence; we don't want war,'' she get back to the people in our been killed. continued,"but it is very difficult to sections and get their sections. 
Latin American International fight against an army when one has Some tecommendations and Students sponsored the lecture as no weapon but a smile." comments from the section leaders part of "Latin America awareness "I don't think that we are at the will be brought before the HPC, Week." Squella spoke for 40 state to send bullets,'' she said in · according to Rizzo, "to see what we minutes followed by a 20 minute the informal discussion afterwards. could possibly wQrk out." question and answer period. "In Latin American what they Rizzo explained that there will be 
Afterward, about 20 people join­need now is vitamins and clothes two additional meetings next sem­ed in an informal discussion with and material things." eiter which will "hopefully include the young, black haired activist The lecture was billed "Women every section leader at Notre Dame from Chile that lasted an hour-and­in Latin America,'' but Squella said and St. Mary's. I think it will a-half in the Library Lounge. she "respectfully declines this work,'' she said. 

Mari Squella, an exiled Chilean sociologist spoke on the importance of women in the resistance movement in Latin American countries. (photo by Greg Trzupek] 
by Dave O'Keefe Features Editor 

Plans by Dean of Students James Roemer to enforce stricter security measures at the stadium and Senior Bar to ensure the proper use of alcohol by students has met with almost unanimous opposition a­mong the student body. 
"It's an outrage," commented senior Paul Cromwick. "Roemer knows so little about student psychology and college pres­sures." 
• "This is something that wiii 
anger people," Cromwick warned. Senior Michael Duffy cited an example of alcohol-related abuse at the Georgia Tech game. "The last game, someone with sloe gin started throwing the liquor around in the stands. He drenched several girls and ruined their clothes." 
Duffy doesn't agree with Ro­emer's solution however. "It seems to me that the existing attitudes at the stadium were working well," said Duffy. "I don't understand why it suddenly has to be different for the last home game." 
Roemer explained the reasons for enacting the policy by noting that ''progressively, we have sat and watched people pass out at the football games." Roemer said that four female students passed out and had to be carried from the stands at the Navy game, while the same thing· happened to three male students at the Georgia Tech game. 

Some students felt that they had a legitimate right to have alcohol in the stadium. "We should be allowed to have it in the stadium since we're allowed to have it on campus,'' commented freshman Michelle Kowalski. 
Roemer explained that the policy is designed to control the abuse rather than use of alcohol. "At the Georgia Tech game, I watched a number of students with a can of beer in one hand and a fifth of warm whiskey in the other,'' he said. "That constitutes a serious abuse of alcohol that we can't condone." 
"For us to stand by and let it happen would be a ridiculous posture for us to assume, Roemer added." 
Some studc:;nts expressed doubts that the new policy would meet with success. Kowalski said, ''I don't see. how it's going to help, because if people want to get alcohol in, they'll find a way." 
Senior Bill Bransley agreed. "I think they've tried before and have never been able to completely shut it 'Off." 
Roemer said he had no intention of totally shutting off the flow of alcohol into the stadium. "I'm not so naive as to believe that we're going to totally contain all liquor brought to the stadium," he said. "We will allow thermoses, so if someon has a thermos full of coffee that he's laced with alclhol, we're not going to have people sniffing thermos bottles." 
The primary concern, according to Roemer, is the presence of cans and bottles. "Cans and bottles can be considered potentially lethal weapons," he said. "These are the types of things that will be confis­cated." 
the observer 

,....News Briefs---------. Davis trial now in final stages 
AMARILLO* Texas [AI•] -The lengthy murder trial of millionaire 
!============================== National 
Cullen Davis moved toward a close yesterday with prosecutors claim­ing in their final arguments that
Sandcastles in winter? 

Davis invaded his mansion to kill "the source of all his problems­[NOCR]-While many calnpuses were feeling their first snow Pricilla Davis." 
flurries, architecture students at the U.of Hawaii took to the Mrs. Davis is the millionaire'sbeaches for the departments's second annual "Great Hawaiian estranged wife. She survived theSandcastle Event." Twenty groups participated by constructing midnight shooting at Davis' $6elaborate sand structures. 
million Fort Worth mansion on Aug. 2, 1976. But Davis' 12 year old step­
Students protest library hours 

daughter, Andrea Wilborn, was kiHed as was Mrs. Davis' lover,[NOCR]-A study-in at the Pennsylvania State U. library drew 3,000 Stan Earr, 30.
who protested reduced hours. The students refused to leave at the Davis has been charged withnew 10 p.m. closing time and some stayed until dawn. 
capital murder in both deaths. Only the killing ofthe s:epdaughter is at issue in this trial. 
After 13 weeks of testimony the longest murder trial in Texas [NOCR) -During football season, students on many campuses seem 
Discrimination? 

history -the Davis trial was in its to suffer a rash of "lost" ID cards (which, not incidentally, can be 
final stages yesterday, with the used to obtain free or reduced-rate admission to games.). The U. of 
prosecution's summation •expected Arkansas has solved this problem by not allowing students with 
to be followed in quick ord•~r by the duplicate ID cards to purchase student-rate tickets. Doesn't this 
defense summation, the judge's discriminate against students who really do lose their ID cards? 
charge to the jury and jury delib­"No more than the federal government discriminates aginst those 
erations. who lose a $10 bill in the street," says a U. official. 
Partly sunny and cool today. Highs in the mid-to-upper 40s. Partly 
A workshop on assertiveness and cloudy and cool tonight and tomorrow. Lows tonight in the 
confidence t1·aining will be offered mid-to-upper 20's. Highs tomorrow in the mid-40's. 
by the Counseling Center on three consecutive Mondays from 8 to 10 
p.m. beginning Nov. 21.

,_On Campus Today _. The workshop .is open to students, 
noon 
3 pm 7 pm 7,9,11 pm 7-12 pm 
7 pm 
8 pm 

8:15pm 
9-11 pm 
midnight 12:10­
12:30 am 
_ 

faculty and staff and will be held in the Counseling Center, Room 400 of the Administration Building.
lunch, informal brown bag lunch discussion on the The workshop has three goals: to 
national security state, martin garate, director of educate participants as to their latin america information service, caron court, interpersonal rights, to help them 
Iafortune. 

overcome blocks to acting assert­ively, and to develop assertive workshop, "job ·search", mary Iaverty, rm. 161 behavior through practice. 
lemans. 

Each session will combine lect­ures, exercises, role-playing and workshop, resume clinic, ann daly, mccandless discussion, and assignments will piano room. 
be given to encourage participants to extend their assertive behavior 
film, "slaughterhouse five," eng. aud., $1. 

to situations outside the group. The first session will concentrate 
religious services, exposition of the pilgrim statue of •on social skills and using assertive­
our lady of fatima. reception service at 7 pm. 
ness in social situations. The 
closing mass 11 pm. 8-11 pm private prayer with second will be devoted to identify­
public rosaries. sacred heart church, sponsored by ing personal rights and distinguish­
marian assoc. of nd. 

ing assertive behavior, which ex­presses one's feelings and 
music, latin american awareness week, "an evening thoughts ·openly and directl~y with­
of latin american folk music," presented by rumi out violating the rights of others, 
songos & lucha. lib. aud. 

from nonassertiveness, which is indirect, manipulative, and aggres­
senior recital, pianist cathy gunn, sponsored by smc sive and ignores the rights of music dept.., little theater, moreau hall, smc. open to others. 
public. 

The third session will deal with specific problem areas, such as lecture, "images of paris life at the time of the marking and refusing requests,restoration," sponsored by history dept., prof. 
receiving criticism, and dealingguilliame be bertier de sauvigny, little theater, with persistent people. Each Iafortune, reception following, all invited. 
participant will work on individual 
Women arE~

nazz, helen wathen, ann cordesman, matt feeney, 
steve podry and carl casazza, basement of Iafortune. 
subordinat~J 
wsnd album hour, "heads," bob james. 

(Continued from page 1.) system and support the left,'' she film, featuring the three stooges, darby's place. 
said. Squella stated she was imprisoned with a group of upper 
12:15-2:00 amnocturne nightflight, wsnd fm 88.9, brian cronin and middle class women, "all of progressive rock. whom were very strong and decid­ed to keep on struggling." "am this morning," mike ridenour & mary corbet Latin American women are still 
6:30-8 am wsnd 640 am. subordinate to males, however, she added. "Women are involv~:d they speak and agitate but are still denied other important roles." 
Architects receive award 
The Observer Is published Mon­d•Y through Frki•Y except d~trlng eum •nd v.c:atlon periods. Tile 
Observer Is published by the

for introductory program 
The '' Innovative Programming Award" of the North American Association of Summer Sessions was given to Notre Dame last week for an introductory architecture program offered to high school students. 
Rev. Robert J . Austgen, C S . . C., 

director of the Summer Session at 
Notre Dame, accepted the award at 
the association's annual conference 
held Nov. 6-9 in San Antonio, T1r 
Austgen also was chairman of a 
session entitled, "The Develop­
ment of New Summer Courses.' • 
~t."j.~ \_.. ~·~«'"*~\!i' ~)'~.~ ·~~· 
professor of architecture. ""•~'\~''\.•··~•,:n~· ,._-. ~~· ·.o;• ......., ··•:• 
students of Notre D•me •nd !i•lnt M•ry's College. Subscrlpt•lons m•v be purdl•sed tor uo per ve•r (S 1o per semester) from 1rhe Observer, P.O. Box Q, Nlotre D•me, lndlen• 46556:· Se<::Dnd dell post..e p•ld, Notre Dnme, 
lndl•n•, 46556. 

. Tile Observer 11 • member of the Allocl•ted Press. All repro­duction rltlhts ere resei"VM. 
Tomorrow is ......... . 
Senior Death Ma~rch 
Prosecutor Tolly Wilson opened the state's summation by saying that Davis "was going to kill anybody and everybody who stood in his way'' in an effort to get at his estranged wife. 
Mrs. Davis was wounded, as was a visitor to the mansion, Gus Gavrel,22. Those two and Gavrel's girlfriend, Beverly Bass, 19, testi­fied at the trial that Davis, head of an 83-corporation conglomerate, was the "man in black" who killed Farr shortly after Andrea was killed. 
Andrea's body was found in the mansion's basement and there were no eyewitnesses to her shoot­ing. The prosecution sought to tie the murder to Davis by linking bullets recovered from Farr's body to those used to kill the girl, and by attempting the establish that Davis was the man who invaded the house that night and shot Farr. 
Davis' defense team claims that a gunman other than Davis did the shooting and that the killings were related to narcotics. The defense presented witnesses who testified they attended parties at the man-

Counseling Center to hold
~}K.J~'~
WEATHER I ~­
. c. 


assertiveltess workshop 
problems during the last session. 
Those interested in attending the workshop are asked to register with the Counseling Center, 283-1717. For further information,· ask for Joan Biever. 
Soviets buy 
more grain 

WASHINGTON _[AP]-The Soviet 
Union is continuing its U.S. grain 
purchases, this time buying an 
additional 400,000 metric tons of 
corn. 

It was the third Russian purchase 
in 24 hours, the Agriculture De­
partment said Tuesday. The 
Soviets also bought 601,000 tons of 
corn and 100,000 tons of wheat. 
The purchases are expected to offset a smaller than expect Rus­sian harvest, estimated at 194 million tons, or 10 percent less than 
U.S. experts had forecast. 

the Soviets are in the second year of a long-term agreement with the United States that commits them to buy at least 6 million tons of grain annually. 
So far, the Russians have bought some 3.4 million tons for the fiscal !year ending Sept. 30. But they're allowed up to 15 million tons of wheat and corn in 1977-78 and department officials expect the full amount will be purchased. 
sion where sex and drugs were available. 
Prosecutor Wilson said repeat­edly that Davis' "very purpose" that August night was to eliminate the blonde socialite who was suing him for millions of dollars in a bitterly contested divorce action. Davis was separated from him wife pending a divorce settlement. A domestic court judge had ordered him not to go to the mansion pending a final agreement. 
Piana recital tonight 
Catherine Gunn, pianist, w\)1 present a senior recital in the Little Theatre at Saint Mary's College, tonight at 8:00 p.m. 
Works by Bach, Haydn, Chopin, Bercuese, Brahms and Ginastera will be featured. Mary Browne, violist, will join Gunn for Schu­mann's Fairy Tales, Op. 113. 
Gunn, a native of St. Louis, is pursuing a bachelor of music degree in music education. She is a member of the Saint Mary's Col­lege-Notre Dame Collegiate Choir. Browne is a senior government major from Clay Center, Kansas. 
The concert is free to the public. 
*The Observer 
night Editor: Paul Schappler Asst. Night Editor: Margie 
Brassil 
Layout Staff: Dawn Miller Sports Layout: Bob Keen 
Night Controller: Mike Bodle Day Editor: Kathy Connelly Day Editor: Jack Pizzolato Ad Layout: Paula Carroll Photographer: Greg Trzupek 





ND-SMC 
Junior Cla,s,fl Formal 
Saturday, Dec. 3, 1977 
9pm to lam 
Music by 'Unity' The Great Hall of 


Century Center, South Bend 
Tickets '7 On sale at dinner Nov. 16-30 North, south and SMC Dining Halls 
About 40 high school students considering a career in architecture participated in the award-winning program last summer to test their interest. Living on campus for two weeks, they were exposed to both classroom and studio experience in the Department of Architecture. They learned about the nature of architecture as. well as the oppor­tunities, responsibilities and skills involved in contemporty practice of the profession. 
The program was directed by Kenneth Featherstone, associate Thursday, November 17, 1977 

the observer 3 


Complaints of renovation plans concerned with handicapped 
by Bob Brink noted. He stated that he felt the addition Assistant Managing Editor Ceil Popovich, adminstrative as­of an elevator to be important, and sistant for the Observer ,agreed with pointed out that the possibility of The absence of an elevator that Bro. Gorch's statements. "I know adding one, or of at least adding would be accessible to all floors of I'm an isolated example," she another lift that would go to the LaFortune in the tentative plans for stated. ''·Since I have serious second floor, was not out of the the renovation ofthe student center degenerative arthritis, part of the question. The plans are not yet 
has led several people to register reason I won't be working here finalized, he said. 
complaints. next year is that it would' be "Ifin re-examining it, we see the 
In an article printed Nov. 8 in the impossible for me to climb the real necessity for an elevator, we Observer, Bro. Just Paczesny, stairs to the office.'' may have to redo the plans." vice-president for Student Affairs, 
"I think it's unfair that the Joe Gill, executive co-ordinator 
stated that a major concern of the 
present plans don't include an for Student Government, agreed
proposed renovation is to "make 
elevator that would make all of yesterday that the issue was a valid the center easily accessible to the 
LaFortune readily accessible, not one. ''The lack of an elevator would handicapped students." However, only to the handicapped, but to discriminate against handicapped 
as the plans for reconstruction 
everybody," Popovich said. She students who wanted to participatetentatively stand, ramps and lifts added that she had seem many in activities that take place on bight
would only make the basement and students and "VIP's,"both young floors, "Gill said. the first floor accessible to the 
and old, out of breath after the long Gill added that he had spoken tohandicapped. 
climb to the top floor. 
Paczesny about the situation, and
There would be not way for the 
When contacted about the com­said that Paczesny had "acknow­
handicapped to reach either the 
plaints, Paczesny admitted that ledged the problem to him, and had 
second floor, where various small 
whether to include an elevator in given the indication that something
shops, offices and the student 
LaFortune was a "fair question." would be done about it.''
government offices would be locat­ed, or the third floor where the Observer, Dome, and Scholastic offices are located. 
Bro. Francis Gorch, manager of 
Art collecting as an art 
the LaFortune Student Center criti­
A special two hour symposium Present, to explain their views on 
cized the current renovation plans. 
on the ''Art of Collecting'' will be the art of collecting, and to answer
He claims that an elevator is the 
held at the Notre Dame Art Gallery the questions of the audience will
most important renovation that is 
tonight at 7 p.m. be: Jeffrey Brown of Longmedow,
required, and should be · given 
Mass., American paintings; Ed­Barrier-free design reaches Sacred Heart as workmen 
priority over all the other changes finish a ramp to replace the steps of the East Entrance 
During the last several years wynn Houk, photography dealer
proposed. "If you're going to cater 
members of the NotreDame-Michi­from the Edwynn Houk Gallery ofto the church. [Photo by Greg Trzupek] 
to the handicaped, then you have to 
ana communities have requested Birmingham, Michigan; John Suro­
provide the services," Gorch 
the Art Gallery's advice on matters vek director of the South Bend Art of collecting art objects. In Center; and Dean A. Porter, direct­


Survey shows students happy 
response to this need, the Art or of the Notre Dame Art Gallery. Gallery has assembled a board of The program is open to the professionals who can offer guid­public and free of charge. Refresh­

with Angela Athletic Facility 
ance and advice. ments will be served afterwards. many benefits. Initially the athletic Ed. minors, the college is tryingby KeUy Conlin program at St. Mary's had a it's best to instill a minors program P-----------~-------------~
I Speech and Drama 1
em­

been accessible to St. Mary's phasis was place on varsity sports There is now a new rental system 
students for over two monthhs and for racquetballs and racqauets at The Angela Athletic Facility has backwards start because the in upcoming years." 
before a strong Physical Education 


I Department I 
so far the reaction to the new or Intra-murals program could be the Athletic Facility. It is free to all building and the new attitude established. With the addition of students who leave their I.D.'s at I is still seeking I toward athletics at the college has more Phys. Ed. classes and the the desk in exchange for the 
been overwhelmingly enthusiastic, revitalization of the intra-murals, equipment. I I according to Kathleen Cordes, St. more students are becoming in­The hours of the Angela Facility 
Mr.ry's athletic director. "Many volved and the entire format is are from 8 a.m. to 11 p.m. Monday I ORALINTERPRETERS I 
students are now taking advantage starting to balance out." through Friday, 9 a.m. to 11p.m. Cordes stated that, "There is no
of the facility and the use of it is Saturday and from 1 p.m. to 11 I ORATORS .. I 
growing steadily," Cordes said. major or minor program in the p.m. on Sunday. The facility is department of Physical Education open to all Notre Dame studentsIn a recent survey taken by the I EXTEMPORANEOUS SPEAKERS I 
Athletic Department staff, 67o/o of as of yet, but do to the fact that accompanied on a one-to-one basis 
the students interviewed felt that many students would like Phys. by a St. Mary's student. I for Intercollegiate Competition 1 
the athletic facility was excellent 
and 33% thought that the athletic Investigations beg~n 1I Meeting: Monday, November21, 7:30p.m. II
facility was good. Comparatively, 
1 Rm. 2D, La Fortune Student Center I
none of the students ranked the facility as fair or poor. on suit filed by Teamsters L--~!.'!.'!:!~!.!!!i!!ing call284-4141) --·• 
Kathleen Bracken, member of 
the St. Mary's Women's Varsity by Dave Rombach the NLRB ruling. tennis Team, commented, "I've Senior Staff Reporter The NLRB's investigation of the used the facility on severa\ occa­Unfair Labor Practices Charge filed 
sions and evein if I wasn't on the The National Labor Relations by the Teamsters will include 
tennis team I'd use it. It's Board has concluded its hearing of statements submitted by both par­definitely a great addition to the the labor dispute between Notre ties to the Board and statements campus and also very necessary." Dame and its 21 groundskeepers and depositions taken by an invest­Laurie O'Mara, a St. Mary's and has begun investigation of the igator who will visit the campus in 
sophomore explained, "I thought Unfair Labor Practice Charge filed the near future. The Teamsters that the modern structure of the by the Teamsters according to filed the charge on Oct. 31 during building would detract from the Mike Lawrence, assistant business the second session of the hearing. campus, but it really doesn't at all. representative of Teamsters Local The investigation may result n a It's a great and very essential 364. second hearing for the University compliment.'' Although the hearing ended on and the union but, according to 
Presently there are eight varsity Nov. 2, a final decision may be as Lawrence, it is much too early to 
status sports at At. Mary's and much as a month away, Lawrence tell. numerous intra-mural activities. revealed. "Both the attorney for Phillip Faccenda, general coun­Included as varsity sports are Notre Dame and the Teamster sel for the University, stated in the 
basketball, tennis, volleyball, field lawyer requested an extension in Nov. 7 Observer that "About one hockey, softball, swimming, golf, the time allowed to file the final out of ten (Unfair Labor Practices and fencing. brief," Lawrence stated. "The Charges) that are filed actually The Intra-mural program has extension was about two weeks and occur.'' 
expanded extensively this year to in all probability a decision won't include volleyball, basketball, soft­be reached for three or four weeks ball and flag football; as well as after that,"he added. Coffee Shop 
other activities like a raquetball The NLRB ruling will establish competition, co-recreation volley­the size and composition of the opens tonightball and one-day events including bargaining unit--a group the team­
track and field and swimming. sters say should be limited to the 
at SMC

There will be various activities original 21 groundskeepers while held through different groups at the University favors a unit of no Charlies's Place will be openthe Angela Facility. The Fellow­less than 413 members. "The tonight in the St. Mary's coffee­ship of Christian Athletes is plan­NLRB may side with Notre Dame's shop and will feature live entertain­ning volleyball contests and a 413 or the Teamster's 21 or come ment from 9:30p.m. to 11:30 p.m, 
free-throw competition later in the with a unit oftheir own," Lawrence The usual snack shop fare will beyear according to Mary Pielsticker, reported. 
available, along with a Coke special president of the group at St. The Teamsters will need to have and free pretzels and chips. 
Mary's. 30 percent of the unit that the Concerts, meetings and guest NLRB decides upon sign a petition "We thought we would try it on a 
speakers have been scheduled at before an election can be arranged, weeknight instead of a Friday and the Angela Facility and so far the according to Lawrence. The a­see how it works out," explained response from the students has mount of time the Teamsters will coordiantor Karen Bickel. Bickel been excellent. Cordes explained, be allowed to collect the required added that she hopes students will "It's all in an effort to use the new number of signatures after the unit visit "Charlie's Place" as a study facility and to capitalize on its is established will be specified in break during the evening. 




SENIORS 
SHOW CLASS OF '78 SPIRIT BY WEARING YOUR Class T-shirts on THE MARCH and to the PEP RALLY 
n sale at Corby's 4-5 
MARCH ON! 


the observer 

Shah of Iran meets Carte1· amid violence 
Wuhlngton [AP]-The shah of Iran states will seek a price increase. Police aided by guard dogs kept most of the day. its prisons to the International Red disclosed last night that his country Saudi Arabia, the world's lead­the pro-and anti-Shah forces Security was tight as the Shah, Cross and foreign newsmen and will seek a price freeze when the ing oil producer and the most travelled through Washington. In has declared an amnesty for 1,500
largely separated throught the day. 
13-nation OPEC cartel meets next. powerful member of the cartel, has There were scattered clashes but addition to heavy police protection political prisoners. month in Venezuela to decide said a modest rise is justified on the ground, helicopters flew On another matter, Powell said,
nothing like the large-scale vio­
whether to increase world oil because of the declining value of lence that left' 124 persons injured over his motorcade and around the two leaders made importantprices. the dollar and inflation ir western andl 12 persons under arrrest after demonstration sites. Included in progress toward an agreement on industrialized countrieF. 
the Iranian leader's arrival here the motorcade were an ambulance nuclear proliferation. The two 
·The Shah made the announce­It is believed the Saudis will seek Tuesday. and a fire emergency truck. countries have been engaged in ment at a news conference which an increase of about five percent Police said 11 persons were At the White House, spokesma,n negotiations concerning the sale of 
wound up his violence-marred state while other members of the cartel arrested yesterday on charges of Powell said Carter told the Shah for six to eight nuclear reactors to Iran visit here. Heavy police forces kept favor a much larger hike. 
disorderly conduct or possession of human rights will remain a "funda· and on the export of nuclear fuels. 
rival groups of Iranian demonstra­Iraq, for example, is proposing a a prohibited weapon. mental and permanent part" of Powell also said no major deci­tors from a second day of violent 23 percent increase. 
Hundreds of demonstrators had American foreign policy. sions were reached concerning the clashes yesterday as the Shah and The Shah cautioned that oil gathered near Embassy Row, Powell said that ''it is safe to many items of sophisticated wea­President Carter concluded their prices cannot remain at present 
where the Shah attended a lunch­assume that both leader noted the ponry which the Shah ·wants to buytalks. levels indefinitely. He said in­eon given by Vice President Walter steps Iran has taken in support of from the United States. 
Because Iran wields considerable creases in the coming years will be F. Mondale, and on Capitol Hill. this ideal." The spokesman said Most of the demonstrators on 
influence within the oil cartel, the inevitable without strong conserva­Tuesday and Wednesday claimed
About 2,000 demonstrawrs re­that in recent months, Iran has Shah's announcement represented tion measures in consuming coun­mained outside the Whit1! House liberalized criminal laws, opened to be Iranian students. 
a victory for President Carter's tries and new sources of energy. hopes for a price freeze. If present consumption levels Of Great Am•~rican SmokoutCarter has said that any price persist, oil demand will increase byincrease would be disruptive to 200 million barrels per day by the world economic stability, and the year 1990 and "there are no known 

Carl E:llison appointed director 
Shah said the president's argu­deposits which could meet that ments over the past two days ·demand." Carl Ellison, director of Human the habit and he may decide to cut office, along with films and the convinced him to change his policy The Shah's news conference Resources and Economic Develop­back or give up smoking al­opportunity to attend a No-Smok­of neutrality in the upcoming talks. came after his final meeting with ment for South Bend, has been together.'' ing Clinic sponsored by the ACS." 
"After perusing the world econ­President Carter. Press secretary named honorary chairman of the The St. Joseph County Chapter Smokeout programs have also omic situation, we have come to Jody Powell said the two leaders American Cancer Society's "Great of the ACS opened it's Smokeout been set up in area schools this conclusion to give you a 'reviewed human rights in Iran and American Smokeout'' for St. campaign last Saturday at the including Marian High school, break," the Shah said. other matters during that visit. Joseph County and will endorse the North Village Mall. On Nov. 19 LaSalle High School, Riley High 
Only last week, the Shah'had told Powell declined to say whether the campaign tomot;row by giving up and 20 at Century Center, in­School, Washington High School, interviewers that Iran would re­President was satisfied with the cigarettes for one day. terested smokers will be asked to Brown Middle School and Jackson main on the oil price question at the human rights situation in Iran. The national effort by the sign a pledge card, which they will Middle School, through the co­Caracas, Venezuela, meeting. The Shah bitterly assailed the American Cancer Society (ASC) keep, and place one cigarette in a operation of student councils. 
The Shalt said he would be thousands of Iranians who have encourages smokers to pledge a large fish bowl symbolizing their Members will be responsible for willing to support a 12-month come here to protest his visit over day off smoking in an effort to committment along with others distributing Smokeout information, freeze on prices. The current world the past two days saying they emphasize the dangers of smoking from the community. Individuals taking surveys and obtaining price of oil is about $12.50 per represent "international chaos, and to stimulate action against the and groups interested in obtaining pledges from fellow students in barrel and most other oil productin disorder and world revolution." habit. With 53 million smokers in pledge cards and information are their respective schools. The 
the U.S.A., the society's national encouraged to contact the Ameri­students will also take a survey goal is to reach 20 percent of these can Cancer Society 234-4097. after tomorrow to determine the 
smokers or roughly 10 million. The "The pledge card is important as number of smokers that actually state-wide goal is 50,000. a psychological commitment to did quit that day. "Locally, our challenge is to get help the smoker," stated Ed Stark, According to Ed Stark, young 
Oldest man in nation 
former slave Smith -135 
2,000 smokers to make that com­ACS area director. "The smoker is people are of key concern in the mitment on Nov. 17," stated showing that he may be interested society's effort to educate Amer­LAKELAND, Fla. [AP] -When concerned about him. He's really Ellison, a smoker himself. "With in quitting his habit and we can icans about the dangers of cigarette former slave Charlie Smith, be­part of the family.'' 
the dedicated assistance of ACS provide additional reinforcement smoking. 1975 statistics indicateSmith's friends at the centerlieved to be the nation's oldest volunteers, help from profes­materials and help to him. A wide that 30 percent of teenage boys are person at 135, left for the hospital stopped at the desk all day asking sionals, and friends, and most variety of materials are available smokers and 27 percent of girls arehe was sitting high on his stretcher, how he was doing she said. 
importantly the sincere desire on upon request from the Cancer smokers.
When the ambulance drivers
clutching a favorite purse and the part of smokers, we hope to top 
came to take Charlie, Mrs. Ness
sporting cowboy hat and boots. 
that goal."

He entered the operating in said: "He sat straight up on the "Many smokers have considered 
stretcher in all his glory. He had his 
style, too..... 
giving up the habit but ar1! over
favorite purse where he keeps his
"Smith was jn good spirits and whelmed by the thought of quitting wanted a shot· bourbon before he post cards, birthday cards and outright," Ellison said. "The ACS
table items like packets of sugar
went into the. hospital room," a is asking us to take it a day at aand little napkins."
spokesman at Lakeland General time. Even if a smoker goes backHospital said Tuesday after Smith's age. which has been to his cigarette habit that day after Smith's right leg was amputated confirmed by Social Security re­the 'Smokeout', he will have thejust below the knee. cords, came to light when he was positive feeling that he can c:ontrol
found picking citrus at age 115. nosed as gangrene, and spreading He does not know his exact birth infection forced physicians to am-p 
A pain insmith's toe was diag­
date, but believes he was 12 when putate the lower leg, hospital kidnaped from his native Liberia in Farley sponstorsofficials said. He was listed in 
Afirca in 1854. satisfactory condition. A slave ship delivered Smith ·to "He's quite a guy," said Mari­New Orleans, where a Texas Professor Ni1ght lyn Ness, nursing supervisor at the rancher bought him, then gave him 
The First Annual Farley Pro­Bartow Convalescent Center where his name and set his birthdate as fessors' Night will be held thisSmith lives. "We're very lone­July 4. He was freed during the Sunday, November 20. There willCivil War.
some for Charlie and very U'IUch 
Biko's death mysterious 
be an open house at Farley starting at 8:00. Professor Robert Leader will give a slide and :lecture presentation on the subject of King Tut at 9:15 p.m. Mass will be 
celebrated afterwards, at 10:30, for the Black Consciousness movement those who wish to attend. in white ruled South Africa. The 
The residents of Farley Hall feel government saw the movement as 
Professors' Night will give students dangerous and radical. and professors a chance to meet Police have denied assaulting the outside of the classroom situation. jailed activist, and government 
It will also enable the professors to officials have maintained Biko did learn something about dorm life. not die as a result of police brutality 
Some professors have reeeived as black leaders within South personal invitations from the resi­Africa have claimed. Biko died dents of Farley, but all are: wel­three weeks after being picked up come. Professors' families are also by security police. encouraged to attend. 
Anyone interested in the position ''f Obseruer Features Editor should contact the Obseruer office~ (4th ~oor LaFortune, tel. 7471) between 9 and 5. All applications 
should be in by Friday, Nou 18. 
ND-SIVIC ~lOR CLASS lUESDAY


HAPPY HOUR 
NOVEIVIBER 

22 3:00-6:00

25¢ BEER 5()¢ MIXED DRINKS 
ATlHE LIBRARY NO .J.JNIORS CONIE AND VOTE ON 
CLASs T-sHRT DESIGN 
1978 St Mary's College 





SUMMER PROGRAMS 
[L@~IDJ@~ 
(May 23-June 23) Travel in Ireland-Scotland-France 
[ffi@~~ 

(June 22-July 21) Travel in France-Germany-Switzerland 
CLASSES AVAILABLE IN Art, Business, History, Italian, Theater 
------------~-----:,---r~ 
Thursday, November 17, 1977 the observer 

-----Newsin the nation-----­
Rattle-snake burglar alarm 
TUCSON, Ariz. [AP] -Burglars 
who try to rip off Gilbert Escandon 
could be in for trouble. That's 
because Escandon's truck is guard­
ed by Poquito, a three-foot-long 
rattlesnake. 
"Normally I keep him in a glass 
cage when I'm in the car and I talk 
to him as I drive," Escandon 
reports. "He's just like a friends 
and he's docile like a cat unless 
he's upset." 
He found the snake last summer 
after it had been hit by a car and 
nursed it back to health. Escandon 
says he frees the snake while he's 
gone, then when he returns he 
recaptures Poquito with a pole and 
noose and places him in the cage. 
Poquito -Spanish for "a little bit" -got his first workout on Halloween. A burglar tried to steal Eacandon's citizen's band radio and had even unhooked it when he was apparently scared away by the sound of Poquito's rattles, Escandon said. 
Police who investigated advised Escandon to get a sign warning of Poquito's presence, but he didn't like the suggestion. ''A sign would blow the whole thing. It would be like advertising and when someone's trying to rip you off, why advertise?" 
Last Squad drinks together 
BRUSH,Colo. [AP] -The -Last 
Squad has opened its 53-year old 
bottle of Canadian whiskey, drunk 
a toast to the members now gone 
and adjourned its last official 
meeting. 
For 41 years, those who were 
members of the Sagebrush Americ­
an Legion Post No. 69 in 1936 had 
waited for this occasion. When it 
came Tuesday night, they did it up 
right. 
The rules had been altered a bit 
and 10 of the original 111 Last 
Squad members shared in the fifth 
set aside in 1936. The original plan 
was to wait until eight-the number 
of a World War I squad -were left 
before the bottle was opened. 
The timetable was altered, co­
ordinator Harvey Reinert said, 
because the youngest of the re­
maining members is 79 and "We 
just decided to have the party 
now.'' 
Everyone belonged to Post 68 in 1936 was automatically a member of the Last Squad. The 12-year-old whiskey went into a local bank 
., 

Bar-B-Que 
& 
'-Beer 
~~& 

Restaurant and Lounge  \S  
Featuring  the  finest  

in hickory smoked . barlteque -cooked over an open pit with special 

Yuce 
.75 or $1.00 Pitcher's of Beer with Dinner 
HAPPY HOUR DAILY 
4-7 p.m. 
Pitchers $1.25-$1.50 
Beer .35 
4-3 a.m.

1132 S. Bend 
dailyAve. 

dosed Sun.

Alone 
and Mon.

289-0639 
vault, $15 was put aside for a final feast, and the countdown began. 
Before Dr. E.P. Lamb filled their shot glasses, Reinert dedicated the evening to the memory of those who couldn't share it. 
Kosciuko St.? 
LOS ANGELES [AP] -If your name is Kosciuszko, you might as well forget about seeing it on a Los Angeles street sign. 
That's what the City Council has decided in the case of Gen. Thaddeus Kosciuszko, a Polish Revolutionary War-hero. 
Ina unanimous decision, the council voted against· naming a street after the general, it was reported Tuesday, because the Public Works Committee said the city's street signs were to small to carry his name. The council committee also said ''There would be difficulty in proninciation and spelling. " 
Vietnamese criticized unfairly 
OLEAN* N.Y. [API-Retired Army Gen William C. Westmoreland says the American press unfairly criticized government of South Vietnam during the Southeast Asia war. 
Westmoreland, who commanded American forces in Vietnam from 1964 to 1968, said the media established "an adversary relation­ship with the American and South Vietnamese forces in Vietnam, but not with the North Vietnamese leaders in Hanoi." 
The 63-year-old former Army chief of staff told an audience Tuesday at St. Bonaventure Uni­versity that the media "applied.a yardstick to the government m Saifon which was tmpracttcal and unrealistic. 
The South Vietnamese were 
expected to advance their demo­
cratic government while fighting a 
war," he said. 
"That's something the U.S. was­n't able to do during World war II when we gave broad powers to the president and end.ed up interning Japanese-American-citizens on the West Coa.st." 
USSR generals to lecture 
WASIDNGTON [AP]-Senior U.S. Army qfficers will learn military history next week from two Russian generals. Maj. Gen. Nikolay 1\lanovich She­hovtsov and Maj. Gen. Ivan Efi­
movich Krupchenko will lecture at the Army War College in Carlisle, Pa.; and the Army Command and General Staff College, Ft. Leaven­worth, Kan. Shehotsov is on the staff of the Institute of Military History and Krupchenko heads the chair of history and art of wars at the Military Academy of Armored Troops. 

The generals also will visit West 
Point, Washington and New York. 
Anita Bryant contract renewed 
LAKELAND,Fia. [AP]­
Singer and gay rights 
opponent Anita Bryant is ''doing a 
great job" in her Florida Citrus 
Commission orange juice commer­
cials and will continue to promote 
the products through August 1979 
for $100,000 a year, the commis­
sion decided yesterday. 
The commission voted unani­mously to extend Miss Bryant's promotion contract despite threats by homosexual rights to boycott Florida citrus products. 
Commission chairman Dan Rich­ardson said Miss Bryant's positions against homosexuality and in favor of prayer in public schools "have nothing to do with our decision. Our decision is on whether she still in effective, and she is." Executive Director Edward Taylor of the Florida Citrus Department had said that Miss Bryant would eventually have to be replaced because "when consumers see her they don't thing orange juice, they think about the gay rights issue." 
Santa Claus School? 

GREEN BROOK, N.J. [A.P.]­
"Ho,Ho, Ho" is out for 1977. 
"Hello there, I've been expecting 
you" is in. 
That was the word given Santa 
Claus trainees Tuesday by a Temp­
orary personnel firm which sup­
plies Santa Claus trainess Tuesday 
and assorted pixies and helpers to 
12 stores in New Jersey. 
It seems some unidentified "ex­
pert" has concluded that the 
"Ho,Ho,Hos" have been frighten­
ing children. 
What else did the Santas learn? 
-Don't promise anything that 
can't be delivered, such as a baby 
brother. 
-When it's time for a coffee or a 
bathroom break, put out a sign 
saying you're off feeding reindeer. 
-When a child pulls your beard, 
say "Ouch." · 
Where's · my bicycle? 

HOUSTON [AP]· Harry Caldwell thought it was tough being chief of the Houston police Department until he faced 180 kindergarten and first grade pupils at Briargate Elementary School. 

Caldwell said he agreed to wear his spiffy chief's uniform-tradition­ally worn only at ceremonies-and was feeling pretty important when the children began grilling him. 
The first few questions were mild. Had he ever shot anyone? Do policewomen have to go to school? 
Then came the zinger. ''How come you ain't found my bicycle?" asked one pupil. 
"He just didn't understand my manpower shortage," said Cald­well. 
Carter to he I p Younger? 

SAN DIEGO [AP] -California At­torney General Evelle Younger, a Republican gubernatorial hopeful, says he thinks President Carter may be trying to help him against Gov. Edmund G. Brown, Jr. ' 
Younger said Tuesday that in the 

election next year, "the Carter 
people probably would like to 
support somebody against Brown 
but fear getting caught." 
There was no immediatge reac­

tion from the White House. 
The attorney general said he 

expected Brown's possible bid 
against Carter in the 1980 Demo­
cratic primaries to be an issue in thecalifornia gubernatorial cam­paign.
At least one incumbent president has aided a gubernatorial candi­date_of the opposite party· In 1970, Prestdent _Ntxon secretly ~en~ 
$400 000 m leftover campatgmng
' · D ti G

funds to asstst em ocr a c ov. 
Albert Brewer of Alabama in his unsuccessful primary race against George Wallace, according to testi­molly in Watergate investigations in 1973. 
Smokeless conventions 

HONOLULU [AP]-Mayor Frank Fasi says the Democratic Party will have to forego smoke-filled rooms ifit wants to have its convention in Honolulu. 
The site selection committee for the party's national mini-conven­tion finished its tour of Honolulu ­one of four cities being considered as next year's convention site ­with several members concerned about the city's ban on smoking in public indoor areas. . 
Fasi, a Democrat and a ptpe smoker, said delegates would have to follow the same rules as local residents. 
Secret study reveals Cuba strong in Africa 

WASHINGTON [AP]-A secret study within the Carter administra­tion finds an alarming buildup of Cuban military strength in Africa and recommends a slow-down in inproving relations with Havana. 
One of the highlights of the study, sources here said, was that there are an estimated 23,000 Cubans in Angola, all but 4,000 of them military personnel. This represents an increase of at least 20 percent over last year and contra­dicts a Cuban promise to reduce its 
presence in the former Portuguesecolony. The study , which involves intelligence estimates and political judgements, does not question steps already taken by the admini­
stration to improve relations with the government of Fidel Castro after 16 years of hostility. 
But it calls for an abeyence until Havana's intentions become clear­er. The U.S. concern has been relayed to the Cuban government and also to Cuba's patron, the Soviet Union. 
Prospects for a complete restora­tion of diplomatic relations and for business ties appear dimmed by
the findings. Earlier in the week, the State Department noted a Cuban buildup in Ethiopia where a 
. Marxist government faces a chal­fr b · E ·tr d
1enge omreesm1 neaan 
. . b S r · t th 0 
mvasto~ Y oma ta m 0 e ga­den regton. 

::::: for ~ut or delivery to :::: :~~~ your room piping hot, phone:;~~
I CLDS23~7:~DAYS I
::::: 4 pm 11 weekdays :::: 
~l=~;;;;;::====~==fm=~===l======:========:===l\l 



FRANK'S PLACE 
·~1-"'
~\ 

Restaurant & Lounge
-. -. 
327 W. Marion St. South Bend , Ind. Phone 232-2277 
visit our package liquor store 
-~rl' Open daily 11 am to 12 pm 4:a._ cy Fri and Sat. until 1 am ~ . 
l ----------­/ 
Thursct..y, November 17, 19n 


Restricting wheat acreage may prevent food shortage 
ROME (AP]-U.S. Secretary of sions of four years ago has dis­Agriculture Bob Bergland told a appeared. 144 nation U.N. food conference Bergland also cautioned that yesterday that excessive grain pro­despite the increased production 
duction wiping out profits is actual­the number of malnourished people ly a threat to world agriculture remains intolerably large and little ~espite scarcity in developing na­progress has been made toward the tiOns. goal of eliminating malnourish­Defending the Carter adminis­ment in the poorest developing trations decision to restrict wheat countries. U.N. food experts 
acreage, Bergland said "we be­estimate the world's hungry at lieve that protecting the productive around 500 million. 
capacity of U.S. agriculture is a Bumper crops also allowed the major factor in ensuring world food United States, Bergland said, to security." establish a farmer-owned reserve 
He said recent bumper crops program totalling 30-35 million increased carry over stocks, caus­tons and a special international ing sharply lower prices with some food reserve of up to six million 
grains selling on world markets tons of wheat. below production costs. And he pledged increased U.S. "We believe that this situation, good aid, saying that the U.S. 
if it persists, will threaten the contribution to interntaional de­long-run production capability of velopment lending institutions will world agriculture by reducing in­be more than double in 1978Scenes from latin American life was the theme of fieldhouse, will be on exhibit at the Pena Folkloric vestment incentives," Bergland compared with 1976.
this mural in which 30 to 40 people took part in Coffeehouse, Lafortune Ballroom Friday at ? pm fo added On bilateral assistance, the sec­completing. This form of expression is popular in the general public. [Photo by Greg Trzupel<] 
I The former Minnesota farmer retary said U.S. aid programs will 
1!.atin America. The mural, which is presently in the 
said the U.S. limitation on acreage increase by $50 million over the 
"may have been inadequately un­$536 million in the last two years. derstood" and assured the con­ference that "these actions were taken after careful estimation that 
need posters in a 

world supplies would be adequate at reasonable prices." 
hurry? 

Currently, the secretary stated, there is no immediate pressure of world food shortages and the air of crisis that dominated the discus-
SU sponsors 
Cheese Party 

Tickets for the Student Union's 
• • !.

Wine and Cheese Party, to be held 
this Friday at the First Unitarian 
•nsty-pr•nls

Church will be on sale at the door 
the wiz of the printingbiz! or at the SU Ticket Office. 
100 -11 x 1 7 posters 

Admission to the party, spon­sored by the SU Social Commis­
Only $10.00
1

sion, is $1. Those who have tickets 
~ 203 N. Main

to the party may ride the Quickie 
bus free. SoBend · 289-~ 
CHICAGO [AP] -A nation-wide youngsters and too much television group of educators says sex and can hinder their physical d(:velop­
open Fri. & Sat. till 
..._,0 c /( d\

violence should be banned from ment and hamper their amility to prime-time and chi\d-time televi­• • distinguish reality from fantasy.'' sion. In other action, the council urged 
Midnight LIQUOR
The Council of Chief State School more emphasis on the arts in Officers said Tuesday in a resolu­education plus action to prepare tion adopted by its policy commit­youngsters for jobs by creating tee that it "stands against televi­closer links between schools and 
~OR\..Q 

sion prime-time and child-time the "world of work." The ]latter programming and commercials move follows congressional approv­
Pabst 

which emphasize sex and violence al in August of Sl billion for a 
case

or which perpetuates sex-role ster­Department of Labor program to eotyping." cut youth unemployment in the 

Old
Members of the council are state nation's cities. school superintendents and commi­"Our interest as educators is to 
Busch 
Chicago

ssioners from around the nation. play a role in developing a closer 
case s1 49
Illinois schools Superintendent link between growing up and Joseph Cronin, chairman of the taking a meaningful role in soci­. policy committee, said the sex and ety," said Daniel B. Taylor, ~mper­
Strohs s519
violence resolution recognizes that intendent of free schools of West "excessive violence on TV increas­Virginia and president-elect of the 
case 6 packs
es aggressive behavior" among council. 
FALL SEMESTER 1977·78 FINAL EXAHIHATION SCHEDULE 
Falstaff s2&9 . . 
Fill DAY SATURDAY MONDAY TUESDAY WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 
12 pack (bottles) Ast1 Spumant1
DECEMBER 16 DECEMBER 17 DECEMBER 19 DECEMBER 20 DECEMBER 21 DECEHEiER 22 

IOHWF 

)TU SNC: 
llHIIF
8HWF 12HWF SNC: 

9MWF ~·NC: 8:00a.m. 
Blatz s2&9 *549 sstah33
3TH Br0 2Z9 
IIH 

9M !<'ath
IOH
8H 
12M BiJ!c2H 
IIW
lOW
8W 
12W 262 FY ROTC 

9W Uo
to 
Mate us 
IIF
8F IOF10:00 a.m. 

12F /lura ZOZ 
9F 
THEO 100 Leve I 

BIOL I 0) 
12 pack Sth
ECON 121 
IOTTI2
ITT) 4TT6 SMC: 
9TTII
2TT4 

HATH 225 
PHYS 210 
IOTU
ITU 
4TU BUE"c zoz 
9TU2TU

10:30 a.m. 
lOTH
ITH 
2TH 9TH4TH Soc 203
to 

Old Style1!,::~~ks2s9
BTTZO (SMC) 
IITU

12:30 p.m. 
BTU (SIC) 
liTH
GP 191 

8TH (SMC) 
CHEH I 15L 
Strohs
MODL 100 Level FS 180 HATH 100 Level 

ANTH 109 MLSP 241 
BIOL 101 

CHEH 223 
GOVT 141 HLFR 203 
CHEM 115, 22 )L ENGL 109 
HUH 185 
HIST 100 Leve
EASC 101, 111, 121 

16oz case Rum$498
PSY Ill
PHYS 111 , 20 I I :45 p.m. 

EASC 141 
PHYS lltl, 221
to 
UNSC 101, Ill 
SOC I 00 Leve I 
PHYS 125

3:45 p.m. 
$687 qt 
EG 120 
soc 371 

SMC: EnLt 46? /ll.it zoz 
SMC: dui:c J09 SMC:St«:: SMC: 
7f[O 
iiist lOl, lOJ
lOJ 
ScotchS539

EnLt 40?, 4~EnLt lOl, l02, 
Matn Z02, Z04, l05MLFr ZOZ: 6l, 62 203, 34Z 
Miscellaneous qt
MLFr ZZZ: 82 64 

Nura 403
Soo 2?2 
5HWF ART 151
2MWF 
)MWF 
4MWF SMC: 
IHWF 

Cases of Beer
4:15 p.m. 
2M 
)H 
4M Bui!c 20? 
IM 
5M 
to 
)W
211 
IW 
sw
4W Hist 20Z: 

6:15 p.m. 
Vodka$399
2F 
)f 
IF 
SF
4F 63, 64 

$385 qt
SIK:: 
PHIL 101 
GoVt 206

EG 126 
RZSt 225

ARCH 144 
MET 225 
EG ))It 
EG 328
HGT 231 

EG 321 
Gin S419
ECON 223, 
FIN )60 
ACCT 221 HARK 2)1 

BA 234 
Hamms 

BA )40 
ACCT 476
MGT 463
FIN 3727:30 p.m. 

qt.
to 
SMC:
SIC: 
SNC: SMC:SNC: 

9:30 p.m. 
c;, LZZ 
!'li"lL LZB 
12 pack
Toe l63 

'"BuEc 208
I'iin. zzo, Zl4 

Educ 3Z9 i'latltlLI 
Gol>t zsz. zu HuSt 32l 
HuSt 463 

2128 South Bend Ave. 
-. ·.. 
<.."·,.
:o, \ ·...... ·.­

....~;\...... 't.,__\"·/' ~-,·~..l~'t~t:ft l ._.;•.'"+~•7'\:~~·:,:~"~\ '-..\\''r~ "< .,_ ·... ·... ~.·. ~-·.: .: 
,. /~1 :.~~-f~'";.!"'i.~.~~:+)l.'-~;.._.:+.+.:t. \:~:'i.\~.it:•'"• '1~ \ ·~ ~:<\"~'f:,.:,:'t:T:+:.,;~~:.:f;"t;l:1.·:~...;~. :·~·~..;':1~,~·-~r)>.r' • • 

Noted Chicago architect, Stanley Tigerman, gave his singular view of contemporary architecture in a presentation of his recent work to an overflow crowd in the architecture auditorium yesterday. [Photo by Greg Trzupek] 
Cheech & Chong concert planned for December 3 
by Kate NUand 

The comedy team of Cheech & Chong will appear at Notre Dame on Dec. 3 in the first of what the Student Union Social Commission hopes will be a series of perfor­mances by comic entertainers. 
The concert, Cheech and Chong's first appearance in the South Bend area in four years, will be held in Stepan Center and wil will have a format like that of the Blues festival, according to Asso­ciate Social Commissioner Mick Mancusco. 
The comedy concert came about as a result of the Student Union's effort to provide small shows as a supplement to the larger ones at the ACC, Mancuso said. 
Depending upon the success of the Cheech and Chong concert, the Student Union is looking into the possibility of having several more like it next semester. The National Lampoon Show, Father 'sarducci, and Proctor and Bergmann are just a few of the names Mancuso listed as possibilities. 
Cheech and Chong have pro­duced three highly successful al­bums in addition to their latest album, "Cheeck and Chong's Wedding Album" which has al­ready sold more than a million copies. They are well-known for such singles as "Sister Mary Elephant" and "Bloat on." 
Tickets sell for $3.65 and may be purchased at the Student Union ticket office and at all River City outlets. Only 4,000 seats will be available. 

Chances appear good for Scottish home rule 
WNDON [AP]-Prime Minister James Calaghan's Labor govern­ment won an unexpectedly high 26-vote majority Wednesday night in the House of Commons for a motion to soeed passage of its bill to give Scotland limited home rule. 
The vote was the last major hurdle for the government in its controversial bid to provide an 
elected  assembly  for  Scotland,  
ending  270 years  of  rule  from  
London.  

Political commentators said the bill will now reach the Status Book by next summer and be ready for a referendum of Scotland's 5.2 mil­lion people by next fall. 
A threatened revolt by English Laborite legislators opposed to the Scottish Devolution Bill collapsed under pressure from party floor managers, and the government won by a vote of 313-287. 
Only nine diehard Laborite re­bels voted against the "guillotine" motion, which limits debate on the Scottish bill to 17 days. Eight abstained. 
The 11 Scottish Nationalist mem­bers voted with the government and cheered wildly as the result was announced. They have made it clear they consider home rule a step toward full independence for Scotland, which the government has tried to head off. 
The government owed victory to support by 12 of the 13 Liberals, three Welsh Nationalists and a clutch ofScottich Laborites and Irish independents. 
Against were 270 Conservatives bitterly opposed to what they see as the breakup of the United King­dom, along with six Northern Ireland Unionists and a scattering of other legislators. 
The government's win eliminat­ed a major threat to Callaghan's minority administration, plagued with mount industrial unrest and economic problems. 
~ ~ SCOTTSDALE 
Scottsdale Mall Telephone 291-4583._ 
FRI 2:00-4:30-7:()()-9:15 
'Fiudi11~ the oue tfOIIlove . .
' . 
is fi11di11S yourself. 


HENRY 
WINKLER 
SALLY
FIELD IPGI 
,H~,~~:S 

Thursday, November 17, 19n 
the observer 
7 

Striking firemen refuse to help 
LONDON [AP]-Striking British firemen refused to help in­experienced army firefighters bat­tle a raging blaze yesterday in a power station east of London. It was the worst fire in the three day old walkout for more pay. 
The unprecedented strike by virtually all of Britain's 33,000 full-time firemen turned nasty as strikers squabbled over whether they should aid the soldiers or remain on the picket lines. 
Some striking firemen aban­doned the picket lines to join army troops at an early morning blaze in a London medical school building. But they were heckled and photo­graphed by other strikers who refused to help. 
The chief fire officer for Essex 
County  telephoned  several  fire  
stations  near  Tilbury  on  the  
Thames  River  east  of  London  

when flames quickly engulfed a 
1.200 megawatt coal-burning pow­er plant. 
lHE 
"144'' 
IS lHE. DIFFERENT 
DI~OND 
Ordinary diamonds have 58 facets. The '144' has 144 facets. The '144' Is the world's most scintillating diamond. Come in and see the different diamond. The '144' will amaze you. 



An Ordinary 58 Brilliant 144 cut Diamond Cut Diamond 
V.1!1'PB.rt.§Jr..C.s
0Urmo11dS .,'Ulatc/ICS "-]ewtlriJ 
!'ioulh 8rt11l. Iut!ian.. 

American Member 
®.
Mon.10:30am-7:00pm ~ues-S~_t 9:30 am-5 :15 pm mnvenient aedit tenns 
·_~RIVER PARK 
Mishawaka Avenue at 30th Telephone 288-8488 

~ 
rYin] FromW;nnerBros 
0 
~ A W•rner Cotflmuo•c•t•onsCo!"pany 
Weekdays-7:30-9:30 SAT-SUN -1:30-3:30-5:30-7:30-9:30 

Three building employees were overcome by smoke. The soldiers, using 1950's vintage fire tenders, had to withdraw and let the fire burn itself out. Officials said there was severe damage and the plant was in danger of colapsing. 
The military has not taken mod­ern equipment from fire stations because the Labor government hopes to avoid a picket-line con­frontation. The soldiers also have been plagued by firebugs, hoaxes and "some idiot with a trans­mitter" who is jamming com­munications, authorities say. 
The striking firemen, members of 

the Fire Brigades Union, abandon­ed picket lines three times Tuesday ·to fight several blazes, including a smoky fire inside a London hos­
pital. 
The firemen went on strike 9 

a.m. Monday over a pay dispute. They argue their average weekly salary of $115 dollars is not enough to make ends meet in inflation ridden Britain. But Home Secre­tary Marlyn Rees has said the firemen would not be exempted from anti-inflationary pay guide­lines that allow for raises of no more than 10 percent. 
Seniors, order T -shirts 

Those who wish to order a Senior Class Trip T-Shirt should contact· JoAnn Baggiano at 272-3634 by Monday, Nov. 20. 
T-Shirts will be in before Christ­mas and will be reordered if there is sufficient demand. 

WINTERIZE NOW SNOW TIRE SALE 
MIKE'S MAPLE LANE AMOCO 272-3487 COOLING SYSTEM FLUSH SPECIAL BATTERY TESTED FREE 
24 HOUR TOWING AND ROAD SERVICE 272-6961 CLOSEST TO CAMPUS 
ACROSS FROM LINEBACKER INN AT ST. RD. 23 AND EDISON RD. 
~TOWN &COUNTRY 1&2 , 
Town &. Country Shopping Centei 
Telephone 259-9090 
2 
Show Times 1:30 4:00 6:30 9:00 
"one of the strongest Motion Pictures ever made" liz Smith t\Y Dally 

...... 
I I I 
1 
1 

AreYou Ready for "fhanksgiving 
Let O'Hanlon's Warehouse Liquor be your Holiday Headquarters and save big this year. Our everyday prices are remarkably low -just ask other liquor stores! 



BEER 
STROH'S 24 CANS ............ '5.39 KOEHLER'S 6 PACK CANS ...... 89' OLD STYLE 12 PACK .......... '2.75 FOX DELUXE 12 PACK ........ '2.39 HEINEKEN 6 PACK ............ '3.59 OLYMPIA GOLD 12 PACK ...... '3.19 BLATZ 24 CANS .............. '5.29 HAMM'S 6 PACK CANS ........ '1.39 FALSTAFF 6 PACK CANS ...... '1.20 BLATZ 12 PACK CANS . . . . . .. '2.89 SCHLITZ 12 PACK ............ '3.29 PABST 24 CANS .............. '5.39 AUGSBURGER 6 PACK ........ '1.81 BUSCH 24 PACK CANS ........ '5.49 BLACK LABEL 24 CANS ....... '5.19 OLD MILWAUKEE 12 PACK .... '2.79 MILLER 12 PACK CANS ........ '3.19 MILLER LITE 6 PACK CANS .... '1.60 BUDWEISER 12 PACK .......... '3.09 MICHELOB 6 PACK CANS ...... '1.79 
RETURNABLE BEER 
2<4 To Case 
FEHR'S ...................... '3.29 BUDWEISER .................. '6.39 AB LITE ...................... '6.82 BLATZ ....................... '5.89 FALSTAFF ................... '5.09 OLD MILWAUKEE ............. '5.12 MILLER ...................... '6.80 MILLER LITE .................. '6.49 HUBER ....................... '3.59 RHINELANDER ............... '3.59 FOX DELUXE ................. '3.49 PABST ....................... '5.89 PFEIFFER .................... '3.69 BUSCH ....................... '5.94 BALLANTINE ................. '3.58 
GIN 
WHITE TAVERN 5TH .......... '3.39 BELLOWS 1.75 LITER ..........'8.19 BOMBAY 5TH .................'6.56 CANADA DRY QT. . ........... '4.68 BURNETT'S 1. 75 LITER ....... '1 0.21 CALVERT QT ................. '4.69 BARCLAY'S QT............... '4.31 FLEISCHMANN'S QT ........... '4.72 GORDON'S 750 ML ............ '3.89 BEEFEATER 1.75 LITER ...... '13.92 TANQUERAY QTS ............. '7.59 GILBEY'S QTS ................ '4.93 SEAGRAM'S QTS .............'5.08 BOODLES 5TH ................ '5.50 HIGH & DRY 1.75 LITER ........ '9.87 WALKER'S QT................. '4.65 
RUM 
BACARDI WHITE 1.75 LITER ... '1 0.12 RON RICO WHITE Vz GAL. ..... '9.89 APPLETON 5TH ............... '5.41 MEYER'S '12 GAL. ............ '16.45 MOUNT GAY 5TH ............. '6.69 
VODKA 
WALKER'S 112 GAL. ........... '8.61 BARCLAY'S QT............... 14.29 

WOLFSCHMIDT QTS ........... 14.59 GORDON'S 1.75 LITER ......... '8.19 SMIRNOFF 1f~ GAL. .......... '10.20 FLEISCHMANN'S 1.75LITER ...'8.49 DARK EYES QT ................ 14.53 CROWN RUSSE 1.75 LITER ..... '7.69 CANADA DRY 1f2 GAL.......... '8.56 SKOL 1.75 LITER .............. 17.98 IZ MIRA QTS .................. '5.38 WHITE TAVERN QT ............ 14.18 POPOV QTS .................. 14.22 NIKOLAI QTS ................. 14.50 KAMCHATKA 1.75LITER ...... '7.69 
BOURBON 
HEAVEN HILL 6 YR. 1f2 GAL .... '9.64 JIM BEAM 1.75 LITER .......... '9.84 JACK DANIELS 5TH ...........'7.51 BEAMS CHOICE 5TH DECANTER'4.45 EARLY TIMES 1. 75 LITER . . . . . '9.86 GEORGE DICKEL QTS ........ '6.29 OLD CHARTER 5TH ........... '6.23 JW DANT 1 00 PROOF 5TH ..... '4.88 ANTIQUE 1.75 LITER ......... '10.18 MAKERS MARK 5TH ........... 17.43 WILD TURKEY 5TH . . . . . . . . . . . '9.26 BOURBON SUPREME 5TH ..••.. '4.39 OLD FITZGERALD 5TH ......... '5.39 WALKER'S DELUXE 1.75 LITER '11.94 OLD CROW 1.75 LITER ........ '9.68. ANCIENT AGE 5TH ............ '4.72 
OLD FORESTER 1f:z GAL. ...... 111.97 BARCLAY'S QTS.............. 14.89 BOURBON DELUXE 5TH ....... '3.54 OLD GRAND DAD QTS .......--.. 17.57 TEN HIGH QTS. . . . . . . . . . . . . . • '4. 79 BENCH MARK Vz GAL. ........ '12.54 
BLENDS 
KESSLER QTS. . .............. '4.89 SCHENLEY 5TH ............... '4.72 CORBY'S 5TH ................'3.98 CAL VERT QTS ................ '5.30 PHILADELPHIA 1.75 LITER ....• '8.69 IMPERIAL QTS ................ '5.09 GUCKENHEIMER QTS .......... '4.72 SEA GRAMS 7 QTS............. 15.49 FLEISCHMANN'S 1.75LITER ... '9.44 PM DELUXE 1.75LITER ........ '7.92 
CANADIAN WHISKEY 
CANADIAN CLUB GALLONS .. '29.79 CANADIAN CLUB QTS ......... 17.38 WALKER'S QTS ............... '5.85 HUDSON BAY 5TH ............ '4.53 LORD CALVERT QTS .....•.... '5.38 BLACK VELVET QTS ........... '6.08 CANADIAN MIST 1.75 LITER .. '10.19 SEAGRAM'S V.0.1.75 LITER .. '14.98 CROWN ROYAL 5TH ........•. '9.79 CANADIAN L TO. QTS.......... '4.89 WINDSOR 1.75LITER ...... _. '10.39 MACNAUGHTON QT ........... '5.72 
1935 UNCOLNWAY EAST CORNER OF IRONWOOD &LINCOLNWAY 287-2861 
(PLENTY OF FREE PARKING)
l ww.MI~H
L W f SOUlH BE NO 

9A.M.-9 P.M. MONDAY-SATURDAY 

SCOTCH 

BALLA'-ITINE'S 1. 75 LITER .... '15.64 
BULLOCH LADES 1.75 LITER .. '10.72 
CUTTY BARK 1.75 LITER ...... '16.70 
OLD SMUGGLER QTS .......... '6.19 
BLACK & WHITE 5TH .......... '6.96 
HOUSE OF STUART QTS ....... '5.09 
MACKINTOSH 1.75 LITER ..... '10.73 
ROTHSCHILDB YR. 5TH........ 14.79 
VAT 69 5TH .................. '4.72 
USHER'S 5TH ................. '5.09 
DAWSON 1.75 LITER ......... '11.40 
DEWAFl.S QTS................. '8.98 
PASSPORT QTS ............... '6.21 
GRANT'S1.75LITER ......... '15.10 
PINCH 5TH ................... 18.59 
GLENLIVET 5TH ............. 112.59 
TEACHER'S Vz GAL. ......... '14.93 
CA TTO Vz GAL•.............. '1 0.29 
JOHNNIE WALKER BLACK 
QTS....................... '11.98 
JOHNNIE WALKER RED 
QTS........................ '8.90 
WHITE HORSE 5TH ............ 15.89 
AMBASSADOR 5TH ........... 16.47 
J & B V2 GAL ................ '16.98 
INVER HOUSE 1.75 LITER ..... '10.54 
INVERNESS 12 YR. 5TH ........ '6.59 
GRANIJ MACNISH QTS ......... '6.63 
CHIVAS REGAL QTS .......... '12.98 
TEQUILA 

TWO fliNGERS 5TH ........... '6.21 ARANDAS WHITE QT .......... '5.61 JOSE CUERVO WHITE QT ...... '6.73 PEPE LOPEZ 2 QT.. ............ '5.74 
WINE 

ZONIN LAMBRUSCO 5TH ......'2.09 AlUNITE LAMBRUSCO 5TH ..... '2.15 GIACOBAZZI LAMBRUSCO 5TH '2.29 MEDIC·I LAMBRUSCO 5TH ...... '2.19 CELLA LAMBRUSCO 5TH ...... '2.19 HARVEY'S BRISTOL CREAM 5TH .................. '6.89 MARTINI & ROSSI 
VERMOUTH 5TH ............ '3.38 TRIBUNO VERMOUTH QTS ...... '2.39 VINYA R:OSE 5TH ............. '2.19 WILD IBlSH 5TH ............... '1.29 MOGEN DAVID CONCORD 5TH . '1. 79 
MANISCHEWITZ 
CR. WHT. CONCORD 5TH .... '2.20 LASALLE ROSE 5TH ........... '2.95 CHAT !LASALLE 5TH .......... '2.09 
BOONES FARM 5TH ........... 11.09 T.J. SWANN 5TH .............. '1.35 YAGO 5TH ................... 11.99 REAL SANGRIA 32 OZ. . ....... 12.19 MATEIJS ROSE 5TH ........... '2.98 BLUE r~UN LIEB FRAUMILCH 
5TH ........................ '3.39 LANCERS ROSE 5TH .......... '3.49 BOLL)!, WINES 5TH ............ '2.98 
C:HAMPAGNE & SPARKLING 
BARBI::RINI ASTI 5TH .......... '3.19 MARTINI & ROSSI ASTI 5TH .... '5.49 
MARCHANT ASTI 5TH ......... '3.39 CINZANO ASTI 5TH ........... '5.69 KORBEL EX. DRY 5TH ......... '6.19 ANDRE 5TH ....•............. '1.89 JACQUES BONET 5TH ......... '1.89 PIPER HEIDSIECK EX. DRY ..... '9.49 
LIQUEURS 

SOUTHERN COMFORT QTS .... '6.97 PEPPERMINT SCHNAPPS QTS .. '4.39 KAHLUA 5TH ................. '7.39 GALLIANO 5TH ............... '9.75 CAFFE LOUTA 5TH ........... '4.72 GRAND MARNIER 5TH ........ 111.28 SLOE GIN QTS ................ '4.61 AMARETTO Dl SARONNO 5TH . '9.55 r AMARETTO Dl CUPERA 5TH ... '5.43 ' DRAMBUIE 5TH ............... '9.55 TIA MARIA 5TH ............... '7.69 BENEDICTINE 5TH ............ '9.59 B & B 5TH .................... '9.59 SABRA 5TH .................. '9.75 CHARTREUSE WHITE 5TH ..... '9. 79 CAMBAS OUZO 5TH ........... '6.99 CAMPARI 5TH ................ '5.03 
PERNOD 5TH ................. '6.76 COINTREAU 5TH .............. '7.99 IRISH MIST 5TH ............... 19.62 CHOCLAIR 5TH ............... '5.13 YUKON JACK QT .............. 17.79 
BRANDY & COGNAC 
--~ 

LAGRANGE COGNAC 5TH ..... '8.53 MARTELL VSOP ............. '11.98 MARTELL CORDON BLEU 5TH. '22.71 KORBEL 5TH .................. '5.15 REMY MARTIN VS 5TH ........ '9.98 HENNESSY VSOP ............ '12.95 CHRISTIAN BROTHERS 
BRANDY 750 ML ............ '5.14 SALIGNAC COGNAC 5TH ...... '8.25 PAUL MASON BRANDY 5TH .... '4.89 COURVOISIER VSOP 5TH ..... '13. 72 
REMY MARTIN VSOP -........ '13.98 
COLD KEGS 
y,. Keg ¥l Keg 

MILLER .......... '17.05 '30.25 MILLER ..................... '30.25 MICHELOB ....... 117.60 '33.00 BUDWEISER ................. '30.25 
PABST ........... 115.40  '28.60  
STROH'S  ........ '16.50  128.05  
FALSTAFF ....... '15.40  '28.60  

BUSCH ..................... '28.05 HAMMS .......... '16.50 '26.40 

750 ML REPLACES 5TH 
1.75 LITER REPLACES V2 GAL. 5% OFF MOST LIQUOR CASES 10% OFF MOST WINE CASES 
.:I 

'.·.:. -~-~ -~! _..._,_ ..'-~-~~~:-~~~-:-'-~ 
·--~ ...... ------____:____:....~r-_._ ----=.-:-. 

--~---~----~~-------------~-----....... 
Thursday, November 17, 1977 the observer 
9 

Bowl bids in process of finalization 
NEW YORK [AP]-As rumored, Notre Dame will go to the Cotton Bowl Penn State to the Orange Bowl' and the Ohio State-Michigan loser to the Sugar Bowl, The Associated Press learned Tuesday. At the same time, the AP also learned that while the rest of the bowl field waited for the Orange Bowl to make up its mind, the Sun Bowl took matters into its own hands and lined up either Okla­homa or Nebraska to oppose 
********************************** 
Who's going to be ready 
You... that's who! 
Think Snow's Skiwear insulated with Down, Polar Guard, & Fiber Fill II will keep you warm when the Indiana winter gets rough. Parkas from $40! So, get ready for the first snow at 
51400 us 31 
North.. 
ph 272-5300 

********************************** 
Greyhound service to Chicago for 
Thanksgiving 

Buses leave from Circle Wed. Nov. 23 at 6:05 
For tickets and info contact 
Shep at 8330 


R.-trip s1475 
ffi1JSCOTL 
The Name to listen to. 
ivers ITuf,lers IAmplifiers ITurntables ISpeakers 
R-357 AM-FM STEREO RECEIVER, just arrived! This 60 watt per channel poV'erplant has no more the .2 percent TH D, Dolby FM deemphasis, tape copy, silken smooth controls, superior FM section found on all SCOTTS... compare, and you won't find this much power per dollar anyplace else in town ... Mfgrs. list 
$429.95. 
E LITTLE SHOP WITH THE BIG VALUES 
333 

STATE ROAD23 EAST  277-3121  
"Across from Radio Shack"  Monday-Friday 12 to 8  
Double Warranty Local Service  Saturday 9 to S  

The Loudspeaker
277-3121 
Louisiana State. 
The latest information overshad­owed earlier indications that there was growing· sentiment at Notre Dame to ask the Cotton and Sugar Bowl to wait until Nov. 26 before issuing any invitations. 
With rumors filling the air, this is what the bowl picture looked like Tuesday, although no official bids can go out until Saturday: 
Cotton Bowl-Texas vs. Notre Dame, with Texas still having to 
... 
0
.. 
•'\) 

Lewis captures interha/1 title 
by Laurie Reising Women's Sports Editor 

Lewis Hall now reigns as wo­men's interhall football champs following their win last Sunday over Breen Phillips, 20-14. 
Lewis earned their slot in the finals action via a 10-0 victory against Lyons in last week's play­offs. Under conditions better suited for skiing, Lewis first score was set up when Carrie Serringer intercepted a pass from Lyon's quarterback Beth LaRocca. Mary Ellen Pearce took it in on a dive to the left for the touchdown. Lewis picked up the extra two points as senior quarterback Byrne Mur­phy's pass to Erin Burns was right on the money, putting her squad ahead 8-0. 
The final two points for Lewis came when tackle Sue Gently picked up a Lyon's fumble in the end zone. 
Breen Phillips made Badin plead "nolo contendre" in their playoff game as the "Breen" machine trounced their opponents, 14-0. 
B.P. quarterback Kate Sarb, con­nected early in the game with Kathy McMahon, who brought it in for six points. Carola Cummings tacked two more on the board with her 33 yard dive up the middle. It was Cummings again who scored, when with two and a half minutes to go in the game, she intercepted a pass and ran for the touchdown. The final score was 14-0. 
Sunday's championship game went right down to the wire with five overtime periods having to be 
Rod Carew elected AL MVP 
BLOOMINGTON* Minn. [AP] • Rod Carew of Minnesota Twins, who spent much of the 1977 season chasing baseball's elusive .400 mark, Wednesday won the Ameri­can League's Most Valuable Player award. 
"It is a big thrill," said the 32 year old first baseman. ''The MVP is the MVP." 
''Over the years it seemed the award went to a guy on a pennant winning tean," said Carew. "I geared myself for ·it not to hap­pen." 
Carew batted .388 the past season, when he won his sixth hitting title and fifth in the past six years. He led the majors with 128 runs and 239 hits, the most hits since Bill Terry had 254 for the New York Giants in 1930. 
Carew received 12 first place votes and had 273 points in balloting by a 28 man committee of the Baseball Writers Association of America. 
Ten other players collected first place votes in the most diverse voting in the 47 year history of baseball's most prestigious award. Carew is the 16th player from a non-pennant winning team to win. The Twins finished fourth in the AL West, 17 and a half games behind champion Kansas City. 
Outfielder Al Cowens of Kansas City was runnerup in the balloting with 217 points and bad four first place v<;>te~. Outfielder Ken played to determine the winner. According to Breen Phillips coach, Keith O'Conell, "It was a very physical game, one of the toughest we had to play all season." 
Breen Phillips was the first to score after making their way down to the Lewis two yard line early in the game. Then after a series of fumbles and recoveries by both teams, Kate Sarb's endzone pass to Kathy McMahon was successful to put Breen Phillips ahead, 6-0. Cummings added two more on a dive up the middle. 
Late in the first half, Breen Phillips padded their lead when defensive back Kathy Schneider picked off a Lewis pass and ran it into their endzone unassisted. Time ran out before a conversion attempt could be initiated, leaving B.P. ahead 14-0. 
Lewis' defensive efforts brought them back into the contest as Nand Kelly intercepted a B.P. pass and was able to return it to the ten yard line. Teammate Mary Ellen 
*Observer 
jsports 
Singleton of the Baltimore Orioles attracted three firstplace votes and finished third with 200 points. First place was worth 14 points; second place 9 points, third place 8, etc. 
Designated hitter-outfielder Jim Rice of the Boston Red Sox finished fourth and was followed by four members of the world champion New York Yankees -third baseman Craig Nettles, relief ace and Cy Young Award winner Sparky Lyle, catcher Thurman Munson who won the 1976 MVP, and outfielder Reggie Jackson. 
Carew's .388 average has not been surpassed since Ted Williams hit .406 for Boston in 1941. Carew's lifetime average of .335 is the highest since Williams retired with a .344 mark in 1960. 
"June was the turning point," said Carew of his sensational season, when he hit .486 that month. "It just seemed like everything I hit found the hole. I hit the ball solid the month of June and everything was a hit." 
Carew won his first batting title in 1969 when he batted .332. An injurt took him out of the running the next two years by he won four straight titles when he batted .318 in 1972, .350 in 1973, .364 in 1974 and.359 in 1975. 
He won the Rookie of the Year award in 1967 when he broke into the majors as a second baseman. 
Carew appeared at a news State isn't, although Florida Gov. Reubin Askew, a Florida State grad, is pushing for the Seminoles. 
Peach Bowl-North Carolina State vs. an opponent to be announced . 
Independence Bowl-Louisiana Tech, the Southland Conference king, vs. either Colgate, East Carolina or Louisville. 
Hall of Fame Classic-Who knows? "Opponent to be selected" trans­lates into Pitt, Iowa State. Califor­nia, Stanford, Southern Cal, UCLA, Florida, North Texas State and Maryland. Pitt will vote W ednes­
day  among  the  Gator,  Liberty,  
Bluebonnet  and  Hall  of  Fame  
bowls.  

Pearce, on a misdirection play zoomed into the endzone for the score. However, the conversion attempt failed, leaving the Lewis squad still trailing 14-6. -With less then a minute to go in the game and Breen Phillips having possession of the football, it looked as if the championship was theirs. But the spunky Lewis defense never relented and their persis­tence paid off as Lynn VanHousen wrenched the ball from quarter­back Kate Sarb and proceeded to break down field for a SO year touchdown run. The conversion attempt was good hurling the two teams into sudden death. 
Both defensive teams exhibited tremendous tenacity sending the game into five overtime periods, the maximum allowed in interhall. Finally, on a Lewis third and eight, Erin Burns spun her way across the goal line giving her team a dramatic 20-14 come from behind victory and the campus champion­ship. 
conference Wednesday with Twins President Calvin Griffith and pub­licly thanked him for his support because "through the early part of my career I was known as a problem child." 
''Calvin never gave up on me and I was able to talk to him," Carew said. "Other owners might have traded me or sent me to the minors." 
Carew was 21 when he broke into the league 11 years ago and was considered moody and withdrawn. He has been named to the All­Star team eleven straight years. 
Hockey team heads west 

The Notre Dame Hockey team travels to Colorado this weekend to play Denver. The pioneers are presently leading the WCHA with a fine record of five wins and only one loss. Michigan, ranked first in preseason poll, has been the only team to beat them. 
Notre Dame, in the midst of a six game losting streak, will find it extremely difficult to gain their first season victory in.these un­friendly surroundings. Irish Head Coach Lefty Smith can be expected to shuffle his lines in a desperate attempt to find a winning combina­tion. 
face Southwest Conference rivals 
Baylor and Texas A&M. 
Sugar Bowl-Alabama, the South­
eastern Conference champion, vs. 
the Ohio State-Michigan loser. If .that turns out to be Ohio State the Sugar Bowl would have a juicy coaching match-up between Bear Bryant and Woody Hayes. 
Orange Bowl-Penn State vs. the 
Big Eight champion, which will be 
determined Nov. 25 when Okla­
homa meets Nebraska. In some 
fast wheeling and dealing Tuesday, 
the Big Eight loser, with no high 
national ranking at stake, jumped 
from the Gator to the Liberty and 
finally to the Sun Bowl at El Paso, ·Texas . 
Rose Bowl-The Big Ten champion Ohio State or Michigan vs. the Pacific 8 Conference representative UCLA Washington or Stanford. 
Gator Bowl-Clemson vs. an op­ponent to be selected. Liberty Bowl-North Carolina vs. an opponent to be selected. 
Fiesta Bowl-Western Athletic Conference champion, probably Arizona State vs. Arkansas. 
Bluebonnet Bowl-The Texas-Tex­as A&M loser vs. possibly Iowa State or a West Coast team, perhaps UCLA or Southern Califor­nia, the latter still an attractive name despite a so-so 6-4 record. 
Tangerine Bowl-Texas Tech vs. Florida State. Tech is locked in, 
bird Specials! 

Huny, the M-91 ED to our 50 customers Thursday' The Koss phones to our first 24 customers Friday. The Discwasher to our first 50 customers 
Saturday. 
THURSDAY 
FRIDAY 
SATURDAY 
It•a=•=• , .3 
G~KOSS 

discwasher 




Shure M-91ED 
Discwasher
Koss Pro4AA 

Complete w1th 03 flu1d
Or Grado FTR-plus 1 
World's most popular 
Both great cartridge buys 
dynam1c stereophones 
carved brush handle 
s1295 
s2495 
$995 
Up To $500 Instant Credit! 
If you have a valid Mastercharge or Visa/BAG. you can 
...
qualify for up to $500 worth of on the spot credit Come 
to the store for more details and don't miss our Grand VISA' 
Opemng spec1als for any reason Enjoy now. pay later' 
Upgrade Your Stereo System With These Top­Rated Monitor Speakers! 
your
choice $145 
Burhoe Acoustics Light Blue from the 

world-famous des1gner who created the 
best buy EPI speakers (and before that. 

many KLH and AR models) The L1ght Blue 
has outstanding musical sound-reference 
quality at an affordable pnce 
AR Model 14 One of the most natuml 

sounding two way bookshelf speakers 1n 
1ts pnce range. w1th a spec1al dome tweeter 
for qood d1spers1on Well-defined bass' 
Now, A High Accuracy, Efficient 

Speaker That's Gets The Best From 
Today's Low Priced Receivers! 
The Synerqistlcs S-32A has all the strenqths of 

acoust1c suspension speakers. but even better power 
response and more output The best speakers for 
under $165 
$129 
PIONEER 
$199 

L~:1::.;.----y=~~ CT-F6262 Frontloader 
Save $100 off the Nat'l Adv. Suggested Reta1l Value on this popular stereo cassette deck. with Dolby noise reduction, wide response and easy to use controls. 
(;1 :f;1 I C5-702 Frontload Dolby Cassette Deck! 

Recent surveys show this unit to be 


the top-selling deck in its price range
. ~----~, 

1n many of the biggest stereo markets -· \~'"1­
. in the country. and when you check it out. you'll know why 
ow(~ •• S159 

Four Days Only! Complete Com~tonent Stereo System For Less Than The Pric:e Of '•;Compact'' Sy!•tems! 
$298 
Total Nat'l Aclv. Suggest Retail Value: $498 Sherwood 5-7025 Certified Perlonnan1:e Receiver Rated at 1 2 watts per channel RMS into 8 ohms from 40-20 Khz at less than 0.8% THO. but the unit you'll buy typically rates 10 to 30% bette,._ That's because Sherwood gives you notarized document attesftng to the real perlormance of each receiver A Sherwood exclusive. only at Heineken Hili. Come by for mor•e details. Garrard GT-1 0 Belldrive Turntable Complete Everything you need, including base, cover and Grado F3 magnetic cartridge. Plays up to six recordS. With Garrard's exclus1ve three years parts and labor limited warranty. Speakers By Pioneer, Cabinet By Soni1:! We made this special buy on these great-sounding two way bookshelf speakers. Complete with speaker cord. Room filling musie at a surprising low cost in this system' 
$50,000 Up For Grabs! 
It's easy to play' Just stop by our new store and match the 
s~L!IIIii:cua 1 ry I 
-coNTEST NUMBER

last five digits of your Social 
Security Card with the 5 digit 
000-0-·,

number posted on every piece of audio equipment on display. 
GRAND OPENING CUSTOMER 
' 

If your number matches, that piece of equipment is yours FREE. No purchase neccessary. 
,nEM, NAME & NUMBER• NO PUROlASENECESSARY 

Win A Free Stereo System! 
Just fill out an entry blank at our store and register for our prize drawing giveaways. No purchase necessary to win. 1 entry per person. 

First Prize! Complete system. with Technics SL-1900 direct drive turntable. Technics SA-5070 receiver and 2 Synergistics S-12A speakers' 
5 Second Prizes 
PIONEER 
$159 
SX-450 Receiver 

• Take advantage of this four -day price on the SX-450 receiver, with 15 watts per channel RMS at less than 0.5% THO from 20-20Khz. 
Complete with simulated walnut grain cabinet. Manufacturer's Suggested Nat'l Adv Retail Value: $225 
NEW! f;1 ~fi! I Model AA-1125
$199 Now with over 25wattsperchannel. all new styling. sensitive FM tuner and many extra features 
Sherwood S-991 0 their best receiver with over 100 watts per diannel (typically 1 0 to 30 per cent better)' Provisions for three sets of speakers FM quality rated second only to Sherwood's own Micro CPU state of the art model With high and low filter Nat'l Adv Retail Value $700 
Break The Receiver Habit With PIONEER Separates!
$219 
J Now. for the price of a receiver, get separate component flexibility and quality 
f with Pioneer's SA-5500 II 15 watt/champ and the new TX-5500 II stereo tuner Total Nat'l Adv. Retail Value:$275 
$139 
The Garrard GT-55 has a patented ·zero tracking error' tonearm that plays back records the same way they were cut (GT-55 with base and cover) The 981 is BIG's newest beltdrive (with strobe and low profile base) 
New Technics Multi-play SL-1950 Direct Drive With Base And Stanton 600EE Cartridge! 
$199 

Stanton Gyropoise Beltdrive With Base And Cover! Unique Design Concept! 
S99 

----------~-----------------------------------­
WANTED Need ride to Pittsburgh for Thanksgiving. Call Chris 4-4515. Two GA Air Force tickets at cost. Call 8051. Need 4 GA tickets for Air Force game. Call Anne 4983. Need 5 GA tickets for Air Force game. Call Diana 5424. Need 4 GA tix-AF, Mary 5469. Needed: Student or Ga tickets Air Force. Call Jan 4-4184. Wanted 1 student or GA AF ticket. Call Joe 1173. Male grad. stud. wants share apt. with same (spr. sem.) Write: Mark Thompson, 105 Dorchester Rd., Lousiville, Kentucky 40223.  Help a desperate senior! Need 1 Air Force GA or student ticket. Call Ann 6808. Need ride .to Milwaukee Tuesday night Nov. 22. Call Barb 4-5245. Hurtin' for 6GA Air Force tix. Tom 1066. Need 2 Air Force tix. Call 4-5245. Delivery person for Julio's Pizza. Sat. eves. only must have own car. Salary $3 per hour plus tips. Call 233-2354. TYPIST WANTED: Full-time, to typeset display advertising, Monday and Wed­nesday thru Saturday afternoons and-or evenings. Hourly pay. Experience help­ful, but not necessary. Apply in parson at: The Penny Saver, 2102 S. Michigan St., South Band, 288-1411. Need 2-3 GA Air Force tix. Call Tim 1036. Need 2-4 GA Air Force tickets. Tom 3693.  Two need ride to Cincinnati Nov. 23. Call Steve 1720. --­Needed: Two bleacher basketball tix. Will pay reasonable price. Call Tim at 3537. I need 4 GA tix for Air Force. If you can help call Russ at 8772. SOUTHERN TURKEY: Looking for riders on Thanksgiving eve traveling to Atlanta via Lousiville, Nashville, Chattanooga. Call Karen or Bill 616-429-3507. NOTICES Everyone can now have their own souvenir of Notre Dame's championship football season. Call 8982 now to get outstanding full color action shots of our victory over Southern Cal. Some never before seen in Sports Illustrated. THE OBSERVER OFFICES WILL BE CLOSED AT 4:30 PM ON FRIDAYS THROUGHOUT THE WINTER MONTH.  2 student Air Force tickets. Best offer. Call1052. Two Ovation guitars [one) classic Ovation with hard shall Ovation casa. Asking $225.110. [Ona] Balladeer Ovation with casa, Barcus Barry pick-up, and leather strap. Asking $165.110. Must sell both. Call Gana at 1694. Rivar City Records Is Northern Indiana's largest and most complete record store! Located just 3 miles North of ND-MSC on US 31. Rivar City Records has ovar 8,11110 records and tapes to choose from. NO and SMC ckecks accepted. Open until 10:110 Thursday, Friday, and Saturday; noon 111 8:110 Sunday. '73 Cougar XR-7. Automatic, full poiwer, air. Best offer. Call 3479. '68 Dodge coronet, pwr, air, no rust, running good. Call 272-7704, must sell. Basketball tickets for sale. ALL GAMES!! Call1159.  Malice, Happy early birthday from Ted and me. You're only getting one more thing besides this because its getting too damn expensive. Myrtle Maye, Eunic, Chris Steve, Happy B-day! From Julie, Ann, and Googie Steve, Happy B-day and Menna more!! Love and kisses from the B-tch! Alumni Abusers, You're right Muffin is a real animal. Googie Otto Claus, I believe you and with great anticipation am I awaiting Parsnips Day. Smiles galore yes and perhaps as much abuse! Vanessa CHEECH & CHONG will have you ROLLING Saturday Dec. 3rd at Stepan Center. Tickets $3.75 at ticket office. ------------­SMC Uondo.-Roma summer programs. Collage cradlt available. For Information call Prof. A.R. Black 4-4938 or 272-3726.  I  
Ski salesperson-mechanic to work even­ings. Approx. 12-20 hours per week. Call Tom 272-5300.  Need 2 GA Air Force tickets. Call Joe 8927 or 8930.  Overeaters Anonymous, starting group meetings on campus. Call 2896021.  Camara -1974. Air conditioning, 24,000 miles. Red Showroom condition. 277-4056  Color USC pictures available only at 318 Zahm. Remember the number 8982, out  
Need ride to St. Louis area for Thanksgiv­ing. Call Peggy 4-4774. Desperately need 2 GA Air Force tix. Please call Cindy after 10. 5484. Need 2 Student Air Force tix. Call Debbie, 234-1485. Need 5 GA Air Force tix. Please call Debbie, 234-1485. Need 4GA Air Force tix. John 232-0550, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. only. Good money. Ride to Boston for thanksgiving break. Will share driving and expenses. Call Tony at 1436. Seek ride to Allentown, Pa. or vicinity for Thanksgiving. Kate 7813. Ride to Michigan State at Thanksgiving. Call1244. 1 student season Basketball ticket. Call Dan 288-8723. Desperate for ride to Hartford, Ct. 11-22 on. Marybath 6877. Need 4 GA Air Force tickets. Call John Bn4. Large family coming from Sicily. Need many GA & student tickets. Will make offer you can't refuse. Call Vito 8685. Need 2or 3AF student or GA tickets. Call 1244. Need ride to Columbus for Thanks­giving. Can leave Tuesday afternoon (22nd) or anytime after. Call Tim at 6867. Need 2 student basketball tickets (to­gether). Will pay good money. Call 277-3604 ask for Dave. 1 pair of mens size 9 hockey skates. Call  Need 1 GA Air Force ticket. Call Mary 4786. Ride needed over Thanksgiving break to Xenia-Springfield-Dayton area of Ohio. Can leave Wednesday. Am willing to share expenses. Call Joe Menino at 7735(6). Need 4 GA Air Force tickets, Kathy 4-4964. Need one student ticket for Air Force game. Call Suy 4-5361. Need 3 student tickets for Air Force game. Call Kathy 5355. 2student tickets for Air Force. Call Sandy4-5346. Need two GA tickets for Air Force. Call Mark 1067. Need six Air Force tix. Beth 272-2340. Used car in excellent condition. Prefer low mileage compact. Please call 288­0218 after 6 p.m. Looking for ride to Lousiville, Ky. on Fri. Nov. 18. Call 4381 Kathy. Need riders, heading south to Corpus Christi, Texas on November 21 via Illinois, Missouri and Oklahoma. Call Jay at 1419. Need ride to Long Island, Ny for Thanksgiving break. Can leave anytime. Call Ray at 1436. Notre Dame is batter than UCLA -right? Help me prove It to my brother from Ca. Need an Air Force ticket for him. Plaaz call 4-5137 or 1580. Help my two little sisters see their first ND football game. Sell me two Ga Air Force tickets. Call Dave at 3493 anytime.  Interested in updating your understand­ing of the Christian faith and Catholic tradition? Considering the possibility of becoming a Catholic? For more informa­tion, drop by the Campus Ministry offices in the Memorial Library or in Badin Hall, or call 6536 or 3820. Anyone wishing to register to vote in· Indiana's May election should call Moat 4-4001. Typing. Reasonable rates. Call 8051. AN TOSTAL COMMITTEE is looking for assistant chairman, day chairmen, event chairmen, secretary, publicity. etc. Applications at Student Government Offices, 2nd floor LaFortune Logan volunteers-Air Force football trip this Saturday Nov. 19th. Bring a friend and meet at Logan at 11:00 a.m. We'll return at 5:00 p.m. Free lunch too! Any questions call Art Koebel (287-7509) or Jeanne Conboy (284-4391) FOR RENT Country room for rent. Reasonable, spacious, 10 min. drive from campus. Call 277-3604, afternoons. Apartment: Furnished, 2 bedroom -$185 -mquire at Louie's after 6. Five room house for rent. Central gas and heating within walking distance. 233­6438. LOST & FOUND Found: Calculator before break. Call to identify 8557. ---------------­Lost: Freshman calculus book and greennotebook taken from South Dining Hall on Nov. 15. Please return and no questions asked. 8279.  Stereo speakers. JBL-L16 speakers. Hardly used. 277-4056 (after 6:00) PERSONALS Alice Malice-Due to the malicious rank on tha Shriners, we decline your Invitation to perform on your show. Wa do however, invite you to our naxt "trip" to Hawaii. ASandWVP SENIORS WANTED FOR IMPORTANT ·JOB of voting for their Senior Class Fellow! Elections close this Friday at 6 p.m. Why drive to Michigan? Happy Hour Friday at the K of C. from 4-?? All invited. Everyone is invited to the Happy Hour at the K of CFricay from 4-?? · ·-----­Little Jimmie Hofman: ---less wonder of Dillon Hall ''You are truly sickest!" Hear ye! Hear ye! and gather round A Senior Class Fellow must be found. Accomplished, personable, with much integrity the choice of the seniors we want him to be. So do cast your vote and make your mark, you only have until Friday at dark go to LaFortune or the Halls where you eat. Hurry! Hurry! don't let your choice be beat. MB Our first date was "formal" Can we have an informal second? JN NOTICE TO ALL GRADUATING SE­NIORS. Tomorrow is the final day to cast your vote for Senior Class Fallow. Remember to rank your choices 1st, 2nd, 3 s &4th Get yo ot · tod 11 ~...:_ __....:____~~~~-~.:..:.__ Goober, Good luck on your last home  of town, call collect. Lee Garvey, You hypnotize the hell out of me. SLW PARTY: 1014 St. Louis tonight. Help celebrate the last home football game. Danny R., Have pity on a poor girl! Keep that shirt on -I don't attack on Thursdays! I guess Ace of Snaves: Calm him down-wildmen can get dangerous at times! Aren't you glad some people fit in laundry chutes? C HELP MEl My brother from Cleveland State asked me for some help with his term paper. I need some Ideas on Fitz­gerald's Great Gatsby and William's Tha Galss Menagerie. If you can give me a hand, call John 1184. Karen Broderick for Little Miss Paddle­fish. Elusive Paddlefish Happy Hur Dec. 2nd. 3 p.m. to 6 p.m. at the Library. Mark it down and make It good. ·---­Wine and cheese party ­after the game -after the Fantasticks -9-1 -First Unitarian church-tickets one dollar at SU ticket office. Will trade one season bleacker seat and $$and Coors, (or will buy with no trade) one excellent padded basketball season ticket. Preferably section one. 233-8855. SENIORS -RESUME WRITING AND TYPING. CALL MARGIE OR MARGO 272-5217. Saint Mary's Students: Seats are still availabe on the New York area charter flight. Dec. 22nd and Jan. 16th. Call Mary Lave-rty 4319. If you have any printing, lay out, and-or management experience and would like  I  
~~~:!~~--------­Need ride to Nor. Va. -D.C. area. Leave  Help, 1need two Air Force tickets, either Ga or student, please call Pete at 8518  lt;;t:-M;;;;-;;-;k~-at-ch--in--lib-ra~ auditorium or C1 parking lot or in  game. Watch out for No.28. I'll be rooting for ya. Love, Bimbo.  ~~~;i~~7~~-~~~;-F~~r~~~~r~~f~~ John. This is a paid position.  II ·  
I~~~~~~~~~~~~· Bob~  ~~~~----------­ between. $20 rewa~all Rick 272~  Macho  Mike,  The  couch  was  really  tiD-s_M_C-JUNio-R-CLA_S_S-CH-R-IS-TMAS  I  
I Au Secours: Need ride home for two to SW CI . . onn. or NY. Can Ieave Mon the 21st after 3. Nick 8174.I1Need 4GA tickets for Air Force. Will pay  N d tee f A. F GAt' k 15 Tons o 1r orce 1c e . om234 0980 even·ngs-' . Help! Need 3 st. tix for Air Force! Rosie 1291.  Lost: 1975 orange bowl watch. Great sentimental value, irreplaceable. Please contact Ernie Hughes, 287-8082. Reward. Lost: watch between North Dining Hall  comfortable Saturday night. You're so good with your tools. Thanks for a jobwell done. Love, the 129ers. -------------­Dear Dan, Four really isn't terrible. Be optimistic! Sorry about the hot chocolate.  FORMAL DEC. 3 y ld 't t tou wou n wan o I . th bl' f "Wi t • Ki .. Nm1ss e ISS o n er s ss. ov. 16-22 ticket sales start..So hurry and ask I the one dear to your heart! Further info. 1 Call Lynne 4476, Kathy 5111, Marnle I  
I $$$. Call 6143 Gary. IDesperately need ride to-from Buffalo1over Thanksgiving. Will share driving, I expenses. Blfl 6765. INeed ride to U, NYC, or No. NJ. Can leave Tues the 22nd. Rob 8464. I Need ride to Alex., Va? Staff memberI leaving Monday, Nov. 21. noon. Room for  Need ride to Albany, NY for Thanks­giving. Call Bruce 8992. Ride needed to Syracuse, NY or vicinity for Thanksgiving. Call Jim 8376. Need 1 A' F r k t c 11 Bill on Yone 1r orce 1c e . a 8792. I will pay anything for two Air Force GA  and Stepan. Call 287-8082. Lost: 2 gold rings left in the Rock's gymnastics room -one with blue star sapphire and the other with Initials: GDM. If found, please call me 7439. Glasses found with black case at LibraryCircle -to claim. Call Tom Basile 233-8288.  Maybe next time. Love, Dianne Bugs Beware: the Piran_h_a_a-re_co_m_i-ng_!_ Carl, Matt, Anne, Helen -Goo luck tonl·g• I'll be chee . f I h t rn:. rmg or you. ope o join you on stage someday, until then I'llkeep practicing my guitar. Your greatestf L :-a_"·~·---·------­candace,  2-6976. Pandora's Books. 937 South Bend IYI. Down from Corby's II where you Cln 1111 books now a gat credit tawlrd ulld books nut salllllllr. Phonl233-2342. Anyone who filii qUIIIfled 111 fill "SAH or the Week," CGII1ICt 237, 241, 446 Flrley.  I 1I I I II  
13. Call R. Athey. 7166. I Desperately need B-ball tix vs. Mar-Iquette U. Feb. 26. Will buy or trade.1Please call 3256.  tickets! Call Charfle at 8549. Want graduate student to share Hickory Village apartment for about $2.50 per~~~~~~~~~!~272-6517.  Lost: "St. Mary's Track" jacket with ,__..'Bob" sewn on front. Rob 8464. Foudn: Gold ring In front of South cafe. Call 2722 to ldentiry.  Welcome back!! Farley, Roses are red Ice cream is blue  To the girl at 929. Your c;lOCOiate chip cookies were the bestest. 110 Dillon It's plant a gubb for detante day. Clabo Pycckuu ctudent  III  
IRid;to and~r-tr;;;;;An~A-;t;-; lweekendofNov.19. C!,~,!;~­ Need 1GA ticket for Air Force. Call Mark .3695.wwwww '+" w  Lost: Wihlte, scllky shawl at SMC Sopho­~~fn~:ti~~~~~~~nd1.m:.::::..a.::.::~­w-~=2!.].-==rs  --------------­I wwww•._.._,_._ -.1  

~~~:..:,.~A.r~~-~b~?~.......~,~~.;...........-.£~·~:M.c~~...~~·~~~~t~i~~•.'..~·~~~ ~.~:~.~:~:,;;..~~~~•~~i.:,~-..tt~ .,,. ...~.M:.;,..~::: ;;;~.,~ ~..:..~:·;,~ ~~~~:"..;,:,'\.•~•J.j.~,~~~t ~ ~;.~;:~...;:·~..~~'-V'~:....~.J~~...~-,-~..;;~~:~~-~~1t:~~~~~~'\t.ah._t;t 

Irish engage Russi~ans in exhibition 
by Paul Steveusou Sports Editor 
During November and Decem­
ber, more than fifteen international 
basketball teams are touring the 
United States in competition with 
American colleges, universities, 
high schools, clubs and military 
teams. 
Highlighting the tour is the appearance of the Soviet National team at Notre Dame tori10rrow night. The USSR is in the middle of a 13 game tour that will take them coast to coast. 
The Soviets are 2-5 thus far on their 'journey. The Russians will play Indiana tonight before arriving in South Bend for tomorrow night's clash with the Irish. The USSR has defeated Oregon State and Utah, but has been downed by The Athletes in Action, Washington State, Kentucky, Purdue and Louisiana State. Following their competition with Notre Dame, the Russians will battle St. John's (November 20), Rutgers (Novem­ber 21), Arkansas. (November 23) and Alabama (November 25). 
The Soviet Union is led by Sergei Bclov, although an ankle injury has prevented him from logging any playing time in all but one of their 
U.S. contests. Even if the 6-3 guard does not play, the Russians will follow a very balanced attack. 
In the 1976 Olympics, the USSR shot 57 percent from the field as a team. the highest of any of the competitors. Yet, the Russians were only able to capture third place in the Olympic event. 
Ife Bclov does not see any action, look for Anatoly Popkov to replace him. Joining Popkov at the other guard will be Stanislav Eremin; whil: ~he ~w_o_ fdrwards will be Vlad1m1r Zh1gl11y and Anatoly My­shkin, both 6-10. At center, the 

Tom Desmond=:=:=:=:=:=:=======:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=·=:=:=:=:=:=;=;=;=;=;=;=;=;=;=;=;=;=;=;=;=·=;=;=;=;=;=;=;=;=;::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;.;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:::::;:::::::::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:::::::::;:;:;:::::::::::::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:::;:;:;:;::=:=::;:;:;:;:;::= 
Stategy 
·:::·=:=·=·=·=:::::::::::::::=::·:·::=:=:::::::::::::::::::;:;:::;:;:::::;:;:::::::::::=;=:=;:::::::::::.:::::::·::;.;:;:;:;:;:::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:::::::::::::;:::::::;:::::;:::::::;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:::=:=;=;=:=:::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:;:::::;:;:::=:=;=:=:=:::::::::::=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:::=:=:::::Six-Pointers 
For the seniors this week is filled with the first of the "lasts" that we 
will experience in our final year here at du Lac. We went through the 
problems of waiting in line for the "cake" courses for the final time, 
turned in our last form 50 and will see our last home football game. 
Four autumns ago we came here expecting great things but our hopes 
were dashed on a rainy afternoon in Notre Dame Stadium as the Purdue 
Boilermakers defeated Tom Clements and the Irish, 31-20. Since that 
time we've sat and watched Ricky Bell single-handedly control a game for 
the benefit of USC. We saw Tony Dorsett stopped--once. 

We've sat through games as frustrating as the 10-3 loss to Michigan State and as exhilerating as the 49-19 destruction of USC. That Southern Cal game will remain the highlight of our four years of "Saturday afternoons in the fall at Notre Dame." We've seen the finest performances of our "careers" in the trio of games played by our 6reen-clad Irish in the last month. But, Saturday it will end for us as we go on to experience many more "ends" before the year is out. 
For over twenty seniors on Dan Devine's squad this will be their last game in the "house that Rockne built." As with tradition, all these seniors will dress for the game and hopefully the Irish will be able to win by a wide enough margin to give all an opportunity to play. 
The game will also be the final contest in Notre Dame Stadium for three gentlemen who, perhaps, have spent more time within the stadium's confines than any other members of the senior class. Those men are the three senior football managers, Bob Sobanski of Fairfax. Virginia, Ken Haffey from Cleveland and Mark Chain who hails from Pittsburgh. Granteli, they have been awarded monograms and a place on the traveling squad for their labors, but the long hours associated with their jobs and the thankless character that their positions held, merit a special mention as three integral performers who, too, will make their final run out of the tunnel on Saturday. , 
Another person who will be making a final run on Saturday is Air Force coach ~en Mart_in. Martin, the first and only coach the A~ademy h.as ever had w1ll be endmg a 20 year tenure on Saturday. Here IS what he and a capacity crowd can expect when the Class of 1978 closes out its home football "career" on Satnrday. When the Falcons have the ball: Returning to normalcy, the Irish defense will again face a pass-oriented offense. Air Force quarterback Dave Ziebart is the 14th ranked passer in the nation according to the stats released by the NCAA this week. Ziebart, only a sophomore, is connecting on 47% .of his attempts and has accounted for over 1500 yards this fall. Added burden will be placed on Ziebart on Saturday as the Falcons leading rusher David Thomas will miss the game due to injury. 
Split end Paul WiiJiams and flanker Steve Hoog are Ziebart's PQ~Dary targets. Hoog has caught 28 passes for 471 yards while Williams has snared 24 passes for 305 yards. A duo of pass-catching threats. 
On the ground, the absence of Thomas makes Mark Bushell the leading Falcon rusher as he has netted 251 yards on 58 carries, an average of only 
5.8 carries per contest, indicative of Air Force's preference toward the passing game. 
Defensively, the Irish should be more than prepared for the passing attack having faced their share of passing offenses. Luther Bradley needs one interc~ption to set the career mark, the team needs two to set the single season mark as they have a nation-leading 25 interceptions this fall. 
Ross Browner has returned to his form of last year and now has a team high of 12 tackles behind 1he line and is third on the team in total tackles Russians rely on 7-4 Vladimir 
Tkachenko. 

Although the Irish may be look­
ing to rotate ten men throughout 
the contest, the USSR will be 
following the same strategy. In 
Tuesday night's game against 
Louisiana State, the Russians had 
nine players who logged playing 
time in double figures. Seven 
Soviet cagers played at least twenty 
minutes. Forward Mikhail Korkia 
connected on ten of 12 shots from 
the field to pace the Russians with 
26 points. Tkachenko followed 
Korkia with 23 markers. 

In that contest, Louisiana State 
emerged victorious, 99-96, in 
double overtime. The USSR, just 
as in that battle, will be a very 
physical team. But that is the type 
of preparation Irish Head Coach 
Digger Phelps wants before his 
cagers start their regular season 
next week against Mississippi. 
"We need a physical battle; someone awesome like the Rus­sians," Phelps commented. "This game will test our size and strength and give us a chance to see what we have." 
"The game will help improve our front line. It's going· to take physical force and the ability to control them off the board." 
The contest should be physical indeed as have been all the Russian games this month. Tuesday night, in the double overtime battle with the Tigers, 61 fouls were called and seven players fouled out of the game. Meanwhile, last week against Purdue, there were 59 fouls given out. 
This will be the second match up between the Irish and the Rus­sians, the last battle being two years ago at Madison Square Garden. The Notre Dame cagers were downed in that clash, 77-76. 
After Toby Knight had sunk a jump shot from the left c·orner with 
13:10 remaining in the hardcourt b;attle, the Irish had boc,sted their le:ad to 66-SO. However, in the next eight and a half minutes, the Irish managed to tally only thr<~e points. In the final four and a half minutes, Notre Dame could only r<~gister six more markers. 
But, that game two seasons ago was played under intemational rules; while, tomorrow night's clash will be officiated under collegiate regulations. 
In that contest, Belov connected on 11 of 15 shots from the field to lead the Russians. In addition, the USSR guard hit on all six of his free throws on the night. As a team, the Russians found the range on 21 of 24 shots from the charity stripe. 
Whether or not Belov will play is unknown, but Phelp's cagers are preparing as if he will be starting. "lBelov is worth 25 or 30 points a game and we're assuming that he's going to play." 
"Obviously we have something to shoot for because they beat us in New York two years ago," Phelps added. 
The Irish will have their oppor­tunity to make up for that 1975 loss tomorrow night when Notre Dame entertains the Russians in the main arena of the ACC with tip-off slated for 8:15p.m. 
Grace and Flanner co-champs 
by Bl"ian Beglanll met in the inter hall championship 
Sports Writer game. 
The battle of the Towers took 
The Grace and Flanner interhall place on Tuesday, November 8, soccer teams came close to pulling under the lights on the astroturf at off their own version of the Boston Cartier Field. The result was a 1-1 Marathon when the two squads deadlock which saw six periods of 
with 84. Bob Golic leads the Irish with 121 tackles, just 23 short of the 
season's record held by Bob Olsen, as the Irish defense is fifth tanked 
nationally in rushing defense yielding 100.6 yards per game. 
When the Irish have the ball: After a lapse in the first half against 
Clemson, Joe Montana and his band returned in the second half to the 
play that has earned them their impressive billings. Montana hit on six of 
nine attempts in the second half and scored both touchdowns as the Irish 
staged their third fourth,quarter comeback of the year. 
Jerome Heavens has gained 862 yards on 199 carries and is within 
striking distance of AI Hunter's season marks of 1,058 yards and 233 
carries. Vagus Ferguson has returned to his freshman form and this was 
particularly evident as he picked his way down the sideline to set up the 
winning score on the screen pass last Saturday. The Irish offensive line 
will enjoy a decided weight advantage that should enable the offense to 
avoid a poor half like they had at Clemson. 
Defensively, the Falcons will again look similiar to previous opponents as they will align in the S-2 defense. Dave Scott, at 6-0, 2PS. is the featured lineman on the squad as the senior end was touted in pre-season publications. The Falcon defensive backfield is small and fast, a duality possessed by Clemson's secondary last week. 
Specialists: Joe Restic enjoyed his finest day of the year against Clemson including a 54-yard boomer into the wind in a pressure situation. Like all good hitters in baseball, Dave Reeve is experiencing a temporary slump that should end as the Bloomington, Indiana native will be seeing his final action in Notre Dame Stadium. 
Scott Shafer will bring a. 38.8 yard punting average into the game and he carries a long effort of 64 yards. Terry Harris is the Falcon's kicking specialist and has hit on balf of his field goal tries with a long effort of 42 yards. 
Intangibles: This will b{: a game highlighted by final appearances. Ken MacAfee, Ernie Hughes, Steve McDaniels, Terry Eurick and Dave Vinson ar•e among the offensive regulars who will be playing their final game in Notre Dame Stadium. Ross Browner, Willie Fry, Ken Dike, Doug Becker, and Ted Burgmeier will be seeing their final defensive action at home as wlll kicker Dave Reeve and punt returner Steve Schmitz and specialty team captain Steve Orsini. 
Ben Martin will prowl the sidelines for the Air Force Academy for the final time and will be looking to put the finishing touches on an otherwise dismal 2-7-1 season. The Irish veterans will be looking to have a performance that will take them out like the champions they hope the rest of the season will prove them to be. 
A great final effort is rt()t the total motivational force for the Irish this Saturday. That one weak half against Clemson contributed to the Irish's small drop in the polls. There cannot be even one poorly played minute the rest of the way if the Irish are to have a legitimate claim for the National Championship. 
The Irish are contende:rs, they can prove that with a superlative effort against Air Force. Superlative here means dominating for a full sixty minutes. The Falcons will not play like a 2-7-l team for they have everything to gain and would like nothing better than to send Ben Martin out a winner. 
The Irish need a performance that will keep them sharp and carry them through the Thanksgiving week off and the Miami clash. Such a performance will indeed be a fitting one for those outgoing seniors whether they are on the Jtields, at the sidelines or in the stands. 
.riO 

Irish Head Basketball Coach Richard "Digger" Phelps and his squad will attempt to avenge their 77-76 Madison Square Garden loss to the Russians this Friday night at the ACC. 
sudden death overtime and both 
teams finish the season as co­
champs of the campus. 
Flanner drew first blood when 
Rich Preuss dented the nets at the 
midway point of the first half. 
Frank Schlehr evened things up a 
few minutes later for Grace when 
he scored on a penalty kick which 
made the score 1-1. This was to be 
all the scoring for the rest of the 
night. 
From this point on it was the Bob 
Ritger and Bob Rubery show. 
Ritger. in the nets for Flanner and 
Grace goalie Rubery would not give 
in as both teams applied continual 
pressure but to no avail. The two 
25 minute halves of regulation time 
ended with the score tied 1-1. 
Two five minute periods of sudden 
death followed and when neither 
team was able to put the ball across 
the goal line, the towers moved on 
to a pair of 25 minute sudden death 
stanzas. Rubery and Ritger would 
not be scored upon, however, and 
after 60 minutes of sudden death, 
the score remained knotted 1-1. 
After consulting the referees, the 
teams' respective captains, John 
Mlynski of Grace and Tim Gallagh­
er of Flanner, came over to their 
teams with the choice of whether to 
decide the game right then with the 
penalty kicks or continue with 
sudden death and risk the possibili­
ty of a tie, since no more sudden 
death would follow. Both teams 
elected to go the final two sudden 
death stanzas, which lasted 12 
minutes each. Again, the out­
standing goaltending of Rubery 
and Ritger thwarted both teams' 
efforts and the two clubs finished 
tied 1-1. 
"It. was a very tough and hard 
fought contest. We substituted 
freely and that kept us going," 
commented Grace captain John 
Mlynski. 
"We had won earlier in the 
season and were disappointed not 
coming out with the win. It was a 
very tough game,'' noted Flanner 
captain Tim Gallagher. 
A total of 134 minutes of action 
was played, 50 regulation and 84 
sudden death. Competition like 
this should make for a very exciting 
spring season indeed. 
Falcon pep rally 
There will be a pep rally for the Air Force game on Friday at 7 p.m. at Stepan Center. Speakers will include Daryle Lamonica, Officer Tim McCarthy and members of the Notre Dame football team. 







