
server 
an independent student newspa1~er serving notre dame and st. mary's
Vol. XII, No. 8 Thursday, September 8, 1977 

~ 


Some of Notre Dame's youngest fans stoke up on food outside the Huddle, gathering energy to cheer the football team to victory agianst Pitt Saturday. [Photo· by Leo Hansen] 
Carter signs Panama treaty 
WASHINGTON [AP] -President extravaganza -a three-day affair of next election." Jimmy Carter signed the historic talks and social activities attended Carter departed from his own and much-debated Panama Canal by leaders of numerous Western text to salute former President treaty last night, hailing it as "a Hemisphere nations. Gerald R. Ford and Lady Bird symbol of mutual respect and Torrijos bluntly told the glitter­Johnson, widow of the U.S. pres­cooperation.'' ing diplomatic audience in the Hall ident who launched the canal 
Carter joined Panama's ruling of the Americas that it was time to negotiations 13 years ago. general, Omar Torrijos, in signing end "a colonial conquest of our The audience for the colorful the agreement that at the end of country." And he emphasized that ' ceremony also included represen­this century could finally give the new agreement faces vocal tatives of 25 other nations, and Panama control of the waterway opposition in his country. former secrdaries of State Henry carved througp its midsection more Directly lecturing members of Kissinger and William Rogers. 
than 63 years ago. the U.S. Senate, which is sharply The American chief executive 
The signing ceremony at the split on whether to ratify the accord, said the new treaty marks "the Organization of American .states Torrijos quoted Abraham Lincoln: commitment ofthe United States to climaxed what may have been "Statesmen think of future gener­the belief that fairness and not Washington's biggest diplomatic ations while politicians think of the force should lie at the heart of our 
dealings with the nations of the 
world."
Demonstrators protest 
Although the treaty caps 13 years of negotiations inspired by violence and the threat of violence
outside White House 
along the ·canal that links the 
WASHINGTON [AP] -Some since the days of the Vietnam war, Atlantic and Pacific oceans, cele­2,000 demonstrators representing a but it remained orderly. brations over the pact may be coalition of about 30 human rights The theme of that rally was premature. organizations gathered across the repression by military dictators in The canal treaty has won much street from the White House after Latin America. more acclaim in Latin America than the Panama Canal treaty was Before last night's signing it has in th·e U.S. Senate, which signed last night. ceremony, about 100 demonstrat­could nullify the festivities by 
As President Jimmy Carter and ors rallied against the treaty a block failing to ratifY the treaty by a his guests met for dinner at the from the Organization of American required two-thirds vote. That vote White House after the signing States as political leaders from the is expected to come next year. · ceremony, the demonstrators be­hemisphere entered and left the While treaty debate in the Unit­gan a chanting march on the building. ed States is focused on questions of sidewalk in front of the Executive Last night, police on foot and national power, Torrijos spelled out Mansion. horseback were stationed about ten the questions raised by Panaman­
Limousines carrying the foreign feet apart on the grass covered ian-opponents of the agreement. leaders entered the White House Ellipse behind the White House. -Since Panama would not assume grounds through a rear gate and Plain clothes officers and Secret full control of the canal until the were not seen by the demon­Service agents were scattered year 2000, that country would strators, but a shout went up among them and a helicopter remain a "'strategic target for briefly when unidentified individ­hovered overhead. reprisal" should the United States uals appeared briefly on the North A block and a half away on the. become involved in war in the next Portico. Washington Monument grounds, a 23 years. 
It appeared to be one of the line of demonstrators chanted. But -A companion agreement guaran­largest -perhaps the largest dem­they could hardly be heard. t~eing tl}e United States power to­onstration at the White House [continued on page 6] [continued on page 5] 
Judicial chairmen discuss proposal 
by Diane WUson After Talbot explained why the 
Staff Reporter meeting had been called, Mark 
Eck, an R.A. from Dillon Hall, 
Hall Judicial Board 1chairmen presented the administration's 

met last night to discuss the Board point of view. Eck explained how 
of Trustees' recent proposal to ban Student Affairs does not consist 
student participation in the Univer­entirely of Dean Roemer. 
sity judicial process. "Dean Roemer is just one part of 
This meeting was one of many a very complex system," Eck coordinated efforts by John Talbot stated. In explaining how the and Steve Dane, student govern­disciplinary process should work, ment judicial commissioners, to he stated that only as a last resort i~ 
preserve the student voice in the a student ever sent to the dean. 
University process. As is presently The hall staff is supposed to 
stands, the judicial process is the exhaust every facility available to 
same as it has been in past years, them before they send any case to 
with students serving on both the Roemer, Eck added. 
University Appeals Board and on Only when a student refuses to 
the University Judicial Board. accept_any other kind of help is he According to Talbot, there have sent to the dean, Eck explained.been proposals from the Board of He went on to stress that anyTrustees to completely revamp this problem which occurred with the system. The revisions that the dorm was considered a dorm Board have proposed include doing problem and was handled as such. away with the University's J-Board Dane then expressed what the and removing all students from the entire council felt was a major
University's Appeals Board. problem with the Notre Dame 
If these proposals go into effect, judicial system: its unfairness to 

students would be eliminated from students. Dane explained that · the judicial process explained Tal­often the dorm you lived in bot. Students would then deal only determined the punishment youwith Dean of Students James received for any given infraction of Roemer. the rules. Dane emphasized that 
According to Talbot, the Board of "a lot more inner action" was 

Trustees is trying to simplify the needed if fairness was ever going
judicial system so there will not be to be acheived. 
another "legal hassle" like there Talbot warned that ''there has to 
was last summer in dealing with be a change and it has to come 
football halfback AI Hunter. The now." The only question, he 
Board wants to remove students stated, is what kind of a change it 
from the Appeals Board because will be. 
they feel that having the right to The chairmen then began dis­
expel students places too much cussing how they felt the J-Boards 
pressure on Student Appeals Board within each hall should act, and 
members. what actions can be taken to 
With the uncertainty of the improve the board's power and 

status of the J-Board, Talbot standing in each hall. The Lyon's strongly advised that if a student Hall representative pointed out receives a notice that he is to go that presently the J-Board chair­before the dean of students, he men have no foundation or con­should contact either Steve Dane stitution to work with and perhaps 
(1559) or himself (1692) · for that would be the best place to counseling and to find out exactly begin. what his rights are. It was also suggested that there ­The Board of Trustees will meet be some formal rules set up as to 
Oct. 23 to decide what to do about exactly how the hall J-Boards 
their proposals. In the mean time, should be selected and what kind of 
Talbot and Dane are both working jurisdiction they should have. It 
on a committee to form counter­was pointed out that presently the 
proposals to offer the board. hall rectors have the choice of 
Talbot and Dane both feel that if whether to use the J-Boards or not 
the halls can offer a strong judicial ,and that in some halls they are 
system to students, the trustees inactive. 
would request for student rep­Some of the hall chairmen re­
resentation. 
Jcontfnued on page 2j· 



) 

Hall Judicial Board chiiirmen met last night with Student Government judicial commissioners john Talbot and StP."t: . Dane, to discuss a proposal that would end student participaHori in the University judicial process. [Photo by Leo Hansen) 

--~.~-r~---~-­
~,--_ 
Thursday, September 8, 1977
.-2~__..t.L1h_Ie_.:lloobiDsuenrv..I:e~rL_
,. 
(,_News Briefs_____ 
1=======================::=::::::============World 
SWANSEA WALES -Mr. Muscle, the traditional He-Man ideal, is a myth today, according to Dr. Sally Back, a professor at Butler University in Indianapolis who specilizes in studying love. 
i========~====::=:=::=:=:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: National 
WASHINGTON -President Carter is ready to recommend to congress a pipeline route across Canada for transporting Alaska natural gas to the lower 43 states, rejecting a proposal for an "all-American route," congressional and industry sources said yesterday. The President will announce his decision today after meeting with Canadian Prime Minister 
I=:--==-====P:::ie:::rr:::e:::E:::I~Ii:::ott==T:::ru:::d:::e:::a:::u,:::t:::h:::e:::s:::ou:::r:::c:::es:::s:::a:::id:::.:=:::=:::=:: Local 
INDIANAPOLIS -Anita Bryant will bring her anti-homosexual crusade to Indianapolis Oct. 7 as a part of a mass rally at the Indiana State Fairgrounds. Bryant will be paid about $3,000 plus expenses to present a program of patriotic and inspirational music, Rep. Donald Boys, R -Indianapolis said. Her fees will be paid from an offering at the rally, he said. Boys also said he would present a "right to decency bill" at the rally and circulate petitions for those who support it. 


~On Campus Today _ _. 
4:30pm smc off-campus picnic, all you can eat, smc clubhouse, $1. 
7, 9, 11 pm film, "mahogany", sponsored by the student union engineering auditorium, $1. ' 
Weather 
Early morning fog today becoming partly sunny later in the day with highs in the low to mid 80s. Fair tonight with lows in the low 80s. Very warm and humid Friday with highs in the mid to upper 80s. 
*The Observer 
Night Editor: Paul Shappler Asst. Night Editor: Katie Ker win layout Staff: Drew Bauer Sports layout: Harvard Typists: Gwen Coleman, Paula Vernon, Beth Rizzo, Lisa DiValerio Night Controller: Leigh Tuna­kan Day Editor: Kathy Connelly 
Copy Reader:  Jack Pizzolato,  
Ann Gales  
Ad  layout:  Paula  Carrol,  
Steve  
Photographer:  Leo Hansen  

4:25 
Cheese 2.55 Sausage 3.1 o Mushroom 3.10 Pepperoni 3.10 Green Pepper 3.1 0 Ground Beef 3.10 Ham . 3.10 Onion · 3.10 Anchovy 3.1 o Black Olive ~.10 (Cheese plus any 2 items) 3.50 (Cheese plus any 3 items) 3.90 Cheese plus any 4 items) 4.30 
Pan Pizza $1.00 extra 
~---------------~
I l
INTERVIEWS FOR 8  
I  IMPORTANT PEOPLE TO:  I  
I  I  
I  Plan, Coordinate and Inspire  I  
II  Spiritual Activities on the Spiritual Commission  II  
I II \  Call Jeanne at SMC 4945 for your interview  II ;  
Thursday 1-4 pm Friday 2:30-4:30 pm 





~·--------------' 
3.05 3.95 

3.95 232-7919 
3.95 
913Y2 LWW
3.95 
3.95 South Bend 
3.95 3.95 3.95 3.95 
*delivery fee 
4.45 
$.75 plus tax
4.95 5.45 


J-Board revision discussed 
[continued from page 1] 
lated how now J-Boards worked 
with in their halls. Keenan's 
J-Board is carefully selected and
screened by the hall staff. The rector respects the board and it is 
very active within the hall.
It was the general agreement of the Hall Judicial Board that if the rector did not respect the J ·Board, then it would have no power within 
the hall. The representative from Alumni

<!Xplained that their J-Board works, but that every case must go to the rector first. Farley and Breen-Phillips representatives both stated their boards were not used to hear 
cases but were used for other purposes. In Sorin the J-Board hears no cases because the hall 
staff will not go to them. · After finishing their discussion, the J-Board chairmen decided to form a committee to find out what 
the students want from their hall J-Boards. Dane said that if "com­
promises are made everyone can run their own systems under set-down guidelines." 
Each hall chairman was to pre­

pare findings of certain aspects of ..-...------------~-.;.;.;;~;;;..;_;;.;.~ 
the J-Boards for the committee they can work with Talbot Dane in preparing a proposal the Board of Trustees. aspects include: how the ouillru•• !ihould be selected by election, 
by selection by hall staff selection by students; what be done about the rector sittlation; what the J-Boards should jurisdiction over (drugs, parietals), and in what capacity J-Boards should act. They planning to meet again to vote various proposals and prepare case for presentation before 
Trustees. 

The Observer Is published Mon­dly tllrougll Frld1y exc.pt during ex•m 1nd v~eatlon periods. Tile Observer Is published by tile students of Notre D•me 111d S1lnt Miry's College. Subscriptions may be purciiiSed for 120 per yelr ($ 1o per semester) from Tile Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dime, lndl•,.. 46554. Second d111 post~t~e pilei, Notre Dime, lndlanl, 4US4. 
The Observer Is o member of tile Anocllted Prell. All repro­dudlon rights •re reaerved. 
How much do you know about South Bend Its needs, p~blems and wealth of offerings to you? What can you offer in return? 
NEIGHBOR HOOD 




ROOTS 

A 0 • •
n rlentatlon to the So th Bend Comm •t
u u n I y

T h d s
urs ay ept 15 1977 4••. 30 ' • 8•. 30 
-auto tour of neighborhoods -Traditional fblish Wedding Dinner 
-Film Presentation -introduction of oommunity leaders 

s· U • D" · H 11
IQn p In mmg a S Wed, Thurs, Friday Sept 7, 8, g Donation only $1.00 for more infO .~all 1884 
INTERCOLLEGIATE DEBATE AND ACTIVITIES (Debate, Extemp., Oratory, Interpretation) 
TO ALL NOTRE DAME UNDERGRADUA 
Participate in one of the most oompetitive and 
exciting activities on campus. Come to our first 
general meeting: 


ursday, Sept. 8 

Freshman Registers Are Here II 
Freshmen may pick them up at the Student Union Offices 2nd floor La Fortune 


limited no. of '76 and '77 Registers available to all students. 

An Air Force way to give more value to your college life and college diploma. ~ Scholarships 
• 
$100 a mc'lth tax·free allowance 

• 
Flying instruction 

• 
An Air Force commission 

• 
A responsible job in a challene;ing field, naviga­tion ... missiles ••. sciences ... engineerin,s 

• 
Graduate degree programs 

• 
Good pay ..• regular promotions ... ,many tangible benefits 


:-Travel 
CONTACT CAPTAIN DAVIS AT 283-6634 



~,----~~-~ 
----~ --~~~~ -~ 

Thursday, September 8, 1977 



Liddy released from prison, returns home 
OXON HILL,Md. [AP]-Gordon ta.Jce up where we left off." said no mor'e to explain himself. in Democratic party headquarters appearing on cBS-TV's "60 Liddy, the silent unrepentant plot­The 46-year-old Liddy, who Before h•e could be released, on June 17,1972, nearly everyone utes" in late 1974 while he ter who concocted the Watergate conceived and-supervised the Liddy has to swear in court that he involved in Watergate and its on appeal. But then he burglary that led to Richard Watergate burglary while working was a pauper and unable to pay his subsequent coverup from Nixon on discuss Watergate and Nixon's downfall as president, as a lawyer for Nixon's 1972 $40,000 fine.Hetold a magistrate in down has talked about it in soine scorn for those who did. headed home from prison yes­re-election committee, was re­Pennsylvania on Tuesday that he forum, not Liddy. ) Liddy was one of 25 persons terday to an uncertain future and a leased from the Federal Correction­owed $337,5000, including$250, Nixon, pardoned for any crimes, to jail for Watergate or its crushing debt. al Institution at Danbury, Conn., 000 to his lawyer , Peter Maroulis has given sworn depositions, talked math. 
Wednesday morning. of Poughket:psie, N.Y. about Watergate and other things With his release, the BureauHe spent 52 and one half months His wife, Frances, met him there A neighbor in Oxon Hill said for an estimated million on tele­Prisons has only three Watergate · in prison, 20 months lone;er than with their brown subcompact car, there will bt: a drive to help Liddy vision, and is writing a book for a figures left, but they are the mi)Stany other Watergate figure, and yet for the seven hour drive home to pay off his debt. Liddy has been reported $2 million. E. Howard prominent officials from Nixon'sthere was no fancy welcome plan­this Washington, D.C. suburb. disbarred as a lawyer and, al­Hunt Jr., who recruited the burg­administration caught in thened by his wife and five teenage Liddy, who made silence his though he rt:portedly has offers, so lars for Liddy and spent 32 months · Watergate coverup net; domeStic -· children. 
trademark, gave a typical reply far has no job. in jail, has testified in court, advisor John D. Erlichman, aAttor­
"Just having him home is going when reporters asked where they The neighbor said the Liddy's lectured for pay and written a book. nev General John N. Mitchell and to be enough of a celebration," were going. would spend his first night of James W. McCord Jr., the Chief of Staff H.R. Haldeman. said 15 year old Tommy Liddy. "East of the sun and west of the freedom in the Washington area, committee's security chief, was one All are in minimum security "He said a few years ago that when moon," he replied. It's the title of but not at home. Son Tommy said of the first to testify and the institutions. Erlichman was he comes home he doesn't want a a popular song of past years and of the same thing. Watergate burglar who served the incarcerated at Safford, Arizona., yellow ribbon. We're iust going to a Norwegian fairy tale, but Liddy Since five burglars were arrested least time in prison. The four last 1 Oct. 28; Mitchell at Max­
Cuban Americans, captured with well AFB in Alabama on June 22, 
McCord, all testified at length. and Haldeman in lompoc, Calif., ori Liddy was paid $30,000 for June 21.
Provost Brown ',s career Olltlined 
open Fri. & Sat. till 

by Jim Coyne , involved with student life. He was prefect of Dillon Hall from 1945 to 

Fr. Ferdinand L. Brown, recently 1949, and rector of two halls; appointed acting provost of Notre Cavanaugh, from 1949 to 1951, and Dame, is no stranger to the Walsh, from 1952 to 1960. University. Brown joined the Notre Brown is affiliated with the Dame faculty in 1946, and taught American Mathematical Society, mathematics unti11963. Ordained and is the author of four pub­a priest at Notre Dame in 1942, lications: Ke1marks Concerning Trl· 

Pabst 
Brown has also held the posts of Operational Algebra, I, ll, m, and 
case· 

Religious Superior of the Holy Reports of a Mathematics Cross Order at Notre Dame, acting CoDoquimn-·Notre Dame· issues 5, 
Old

vice-president for academic affairs, 6,7,8. and, most recently, associate pro­When asked his reaction to the 

Busch_ 
case 
Chicago

vost appointment, Brown replied in a 
During his association with the word, that it was, "over­University , Brown has also been whelming," and added ''we'D do the best job we can." 

$149

FR. FERNINAND L. BROWN 



Strohs
Brown received his A.B. in 

emester Off philosophy from Notre Dame in 
case 

6 packs

Weber t0 take s 1938, and went on to receive a 
Master's degree in mathematics in F I t ff·$ 
by Patrice Dermody In naming a successor to Weber, ~945, and a Ph.D. in_.mathematics;. a s a 269 Dean Isabel Charles of the College ID 1947, also from Notre Dame. ­Dr. Ronald Weber, director of of Arts and Letters announced that From 1951 to 1952, Brown was a 12 pack (bottles) the American Studies Program Father Hesburgh has appointed post doctor1Ll fellew at Yale Univer-­conftrmed rumors yesterday that Thomas Schlereth as the new sity. His 'theological studies were 
B I I $269 
he will take a leave of absence from Director of the American Studies compl~ted at Holy ~ross College in a z the University in the spring se-' Program. Because of Schlereth's Washingtot1, D.C. ID 1942. u mester. Weber emphasized that previous committments, however, His appointment to the pOsition 12 paCI\ (bottles) 
this move is not sudden and falls he will not take over this position of acting provost was made by 




$2-as 

within what he called the "normal until September of 1978. Prof~ssor University ]President Fr. Theodore 0 I d ·M.ll.waukee 
course of events." Thomas Stritch will act as an M. Hesburuh. Brown succeeds Fr. A graduate of Notre Dame, interim chairman for the spring James T. ~lurtchaell,who resigned 12 p-ack(b ttl -)Weber received his Master's Deg-semester of this academic year. on August 25. 0 eS ree in English from the University ~-----------..._----­
of Iowa and his Doctorate in f & American Studies from the Univer-A CO LEGE OF SC'EN S ' 
sity of Minnesota. He has directed t ny L ,, CE TUDENT • .Strohs Rum$498 Notre Dame's American Studies & qtProgram for the past seven years. , INTERESTED IN REPRESEN!TING THE .t 16oz case 
He has also been a member of & t various University councils while ' College of s.cience o.n the J~cadem ic saa7 ScotchS539 
continuing to teach two classes & • qteach semester. ' Commenting on his reasons for t Council should submit Name and brief • 
leaving, Weber stated that· he t f 
VodkaS399 

:~:~e:n :e:~o~~:: w~~:fe ~~~ , .Statement of Purpose before Sept. 19th , Miscellaneous . qt in mind. "I'd like to go abroad, f to: ' 
and probably will," Weber said, f t Cases of Beer Gin S399
"although I have made no soecific f Student Council 
qt

plans as of yet." He did say, & 

sass

however,1j}athewillreturntoNotre ·t c/o The Office of Dean of Sciencet' 
Dame for the summer session and will also assume fun time teaching t Rm 229 Nieuwland Sf:ience f 
2128 South Bend Ave.

responsibilities as a professor of . 
American Studies next Fall. ·l-.________________J -iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii!iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiliiiiiiiiiiiii 
.. .....
--------.... -...~~ .. t • 
........ ~' 

• • ;..•-·..f' .. • ...• ~""' ......... -"(.......~ ......-.·.·~-.........~ ••• 
•• ~ ........,._,·-...."f ............,-......~ .....;<It.-oil; .. "-••:fit·_·~.·~·-·...•...-.:-.·,."... "'..._-··-.._-·~·~~ .:.~.~~·~ 


Apparently, male students weren't the only ones who enjoyed last night's panty raid, as Regina women drop encouraging tokens from windows. About 1500 Notre Dame men participated in the raid, started by Zahm Hall residents. [Photo by ll>oug Christian] 
-.-.­

Psychopath charg------, in St. Mary's attack ..i, 
.f. -~ ' by Jean Powley came in her room armed with a~ St. Mary's Editor gun, and attempted to rape her. ·.' She said Like gave up, however, 

A 36-year old New Carlisle man when she fought him, and u•:;.u:::il"'-'-·1 has been charged by St. Joseph stole $30 from her. County Police with the armed Like then allegedly bound robbery and attempted sexual as­with a pillowcase and a belt and sault of a St. Mary's freshman shut her in the closet. Tuesday morning. She managed to free herself · 
According to St. Mary's Security within a few minutes and ~irector Anthony Kovatch, James mediately called Security. I;.tke, . came on campus Tuesday the description the freshman morntng and began wandering them, Security \ apprehended around. Kovatch said Like entered within five minutes as he left Holy Cross at approximately 11:30 Cross, walking toward -'"t::In<U~:tE 
a.m. and took the stairs to the Kovatch reported that 
second floor. psychopath with a long The freshman reported that he and mental record. 

Thursday, September 8, 1977 
the observer 



ND group works to free political prisoners 
by .Marfbetb Moran dependent international organ­Britain, AI has about SO other to raise money for the organization. of AI will have a table in Stepan. ization working for the release of national groups spread throughout Among the artists are: Armon Anyone interested in supporting 
Apolinia Buenvertura is free political prisoners unlawfully de­the world. Max Bill, Fernando Batero, Alex: this world-wide effort should talk to today through the efforts of a group tained for their beliefs, political Buenvertura is the first such case ander Calder, and Alexander someone in the booth. There will of Notre Dame students and persuasion, or color, provided that that the ND chapter has resolved. Libermen. be a general meeting for both 
According to Gilburt Loescher, On Activities Night, September students and faculty on September Assistant Dean of the College of 12, 1977, the Notre Dame ch~mtt~r 15 at 4 p.m. in 104 O'Shaughnessy. Arts and Letters and spokesmen for the group, Buenvertura was arrested and held without trial until she was released after a letter writing campaign in her behalf. During her 7 months imprisonment she reportedly was ill fed and housed as well as being tortured. After being the object of diplomatic pressure the Phillipine government decided to release her at the beginning of the summer. 
Loescher went on to say that efforts are still being made on behalf of the two other prisoners assigned to the Notre Dame chap­ter: a Rhodesian interned without a trial and a Kamaroonian under the same circumstances. 
Oppressed individuals rather than groups are the primary con­
-----------------------------~ The faculty exhibit and the Amnesty International exhibit are 
Contrary to popular myth and 
also now at the gallery. [Photo by leo Hansen]

i: Student Meal Ticket:: 
legend, there is no master com­
puter or clairvoyant deciding which I~ ~ 1 Roast Beef :: people are best suited to live I"' Nl together. Freshmen become room­

Carney '77 approaching
10. 1 Sm. Fries ..... mates purely by chance. 
During the summer each fresh­by Maureen Eyres Dame Community." man fills out a card stating his first 
:: Arby"s 1 Cole Slaw ;! The Nazz will provide entertain­
and second choices for halls. This 
Carney '77, billed as the ment by three folk groups in the 

card and a fee of$100 confirms that
lc; ~? $1.25 ~I "world's largest picnic on one front of the flag pole on the South he has become a prt of the Notre campus," will bring a carnival-like Quad beginning at 4:45 p.m.
I:: At all Arby's in South Bend ~~ Dame community. atmosphere to the North and South WSND will be on hand to provide I 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 I The Housing Office places each Quads this Friday. A picnic dinner music between the acts and live
---------------------freshman in the hall of their choice of chicken and hot dogs will be coverage of the events. Clowns will
~------­
on a "first come, first serve" basis, served in front of each dining hall pass out helium balloons on both according to the arival date of the beginning at 4:30 p.m. quads.confirmation card. If the quota of Co-sponsored by the Freshman 
freshmen is filled in the first Orientation Committee, chaired by Continuing in the festive spirit,
choice, the freshman reciev.es the Nan Bufalino, and Student Govern­the Student Union Social Commis­second choice. ment; Carney '77 marks the open­sion and Keenan Hall are sponsor­Iffreshmen find their roommates ing of the school year and serves as ing a Block Party at the Stepan
completely unbearable, they are the key social event of freshman basketball courts later that night
supper 
advised to speak with their rector orientation. Mike Duffy, an Orien­from 9 p.m. to 1 a.m. Entertain­or rectress. Most problems are tation Committee member com­ment will be provided bysolved within the halls. For major mented, ''Carney gives freshmen "Sahara," a band ffom Chicago.
()Jl pt:oblems, however, the Office of the chance to mix with soph­Refreshments will be available. 
c·.•ny~-. 
Student Housing is always willing omores, juniors, and seniors. It Incase of rain, the Block Party will 
rnrnr .. try 
to help. makes them feel a part of the Notre be moved inside Stepan Center. 
ATTENTION ENGINEERING STUDENTS 
IF YOU ARE INTERESTED IN REPRESENTING THE ENGINEERING STUDENTS ON THE 
UNIVERSITY ACADEMIC COUNCIL 



THE PITTSBURGH CLUB 
invites you to a PreVictory Happy Hour at The Library 
1f2 price mixed drinks NEW REDUCED BEER PRICES Friday, 3:30-7:00 
and for those traveling to Pgh ... 
PEP RALLY Webster Hall Hotel near Pitt campus 8:30-midnight 
Also a Dance Band and Cash Bar 
ieaturlng Moose Krause Father Joyce and the ND Cheerleader~ 

cern of AI. The organization is made up of national secretariats who assign specific cases to each adoption group (chapter) that will in turn concentrate on having these prisoners released. 
The chapter will then write letters on behalf of the prisoner and try to bring diplomatic pressure on the particular government to re­lease that individual. AI also provides moral and financial sup­port to the family of the prisoner during this time. 
In a~idition to the letter writing campatgns, the ND group is co­sponsoring an art show with the Art Gallery that features the prints of 15 internationally prominent artists who dominated their talent in order 


My roommate: HELP !!!! 
~ 
Picasso's "leMiroir" [1932], from the School of Paris Exhibit by Don O'Sullivan is currently being displayed at the O'Shaughnessy Art Gallery.' 

PLEASE SUBMIT YOUR NAME, RESUME, AND BRIEF STATEMENT OF PURPOSE TO THE OFFICE OF THE DEAN ROOM 22 EG BLDG 
BY 4:30 PM TUESDAY SEPTEMBER 13 

......... 


Supreme Court to hear arguments in Bakke case 
WASHINGTON [AP) -The Sup­reme Court said Tuesday it will hear argumentS Oct. 12 in a case many legal experts believe will lead to the court's most important decision on race relations since segregation was outlawed 23 years ago. 
The case could decide the fate of special programs in education and business that benefit blacks and other minorities discriminated a­gainst in the past. 
Such programs have been praised by supporters as "affirm­ative action" and scorned by others who claim they foster a type of "reverse discrimination," against whites. 
Allan Bakke, a white Sunnyvale, CA, resident, believes he was discriminated against by the Uni­versity of California at Davis Med­ical School because the school admitted 16 allegedly less qualified minority students ahead of him. 
The -California Supreme Court agreed with Bakke, ruling last October that the medical school's policy of admitting "special stu­dents" over white students who were more qualified was unconsti­tutional. The university is appeal­ing that decision. 
The Bakke case was listed on an oral argument schedule for 10 a.m. on Tuesday, Oct.-12. One hour has been allotted for arguements, 30 minutes for each side. 
Former Watergate special pros­ecutor Archibald Cox, who argued many cases before the Supreme Court while serving in the Justice Department as solicitor general, will argue for the university. Bakke will be represented by San Francis­co attorney Reynold Colvin. 
Thursday, September 8, 1977 
-. the observer 


Panatma Canal treaty signed 
[continued &om page 1) intervene after 2000 to protect the neutrality of th'~ canal could be­come an instruJJO.ent for perpetual intervention in Panamanian affairs. -En route to the ceremony, the rarely used bhi.ck presidential lim­ousine in which Carter, the First Lady, Ford and Mrs. Johnson were riding passed dt~monstrators bear­ing signs saying "Respect Human ~ghts. in. the Americ~s" and 
Fasctst _Vtol~nee -A Dtsease of the Amencas. ' One man shouted: " Go back to Russia where you bel()~g." · 
Still others along the short motorcade rou1te appl_auded . as groups of left and nght wmg protesters gatht~red at the White House and near the OAS. 
Officials here believe Senate rejection of the ttreaty would trigger guerrilla wadart~ and mob violence in the Canal Zone similar to the riots that erupted there in 1964. 
Some problems already have erupted because of the treaty's terms. Panamanian demonstrators 
who favor imm,~diate takeover of the canal rather than the phased in control provided by the agreement potential U.S. military intervention 
hurled stones and shouted slogans to protect the 63 year old canal. 
outside the Foreign Ministry in The Mexican government regards 
Panama City yesterday. this as an infringement of Pan-
The President noted the canal amanian sovereignty. 
will not be under total Panamanian Actually, two separate agree­
control for 23 years and said that ments are involved in the treaty' 
even "after that, the United States although they are viewed as in­
will still be able to counter any divisible. One calls for phasing out 
threat to the canal's neutrality." U.S. control over the canal by the 
Just hours before the signing, year 2000, when Panama would 
U.S. and Panamanian negotiators assume full operational authority. formalized an agreement specify-Under the second accord, the 
• ing the two countries' obligations United States reserves the per­on land and water use and other manent right to intervene militarily issues. Officials described the against any threat to the canal. agrement as a supplement to the 
treaty itself. As part of the treaty festivities, 
and the first hemisphere summit 

To underscore Latin American ever held here, Carter has been 
pleasure with the treaty, hemi-meeting privately with the 18 
sphere leaders arranged to sign a government heads who have gath­
Declaration of Washington expres-ered for the occasion. His first 
sing their "profound satisfaction" visitor was Gen. Omar Torrijos, 
at the conclusion of treaty negotia-Panama's government cheif. 
tions backed by every U.S. Pres-In meeting after meeting Carter ident since Lyndon B. Johnson. has pursued such favorite topics as Neighboring Mexico remained humari rights, arms spending re­d h th d straint and an end to nuclear 
oppose • owever, to e secon part of the agreement involving proliferation. 

Business. Science. EngiJ~eering. This semester is the riJ~ht time to get a TI calculator tailored to the work you're doing. 
$5995* 


SR-51-11 
Professional decision making system: Loaded with statistics functions. 

Accounting. Marketing. Education. Social Sciences. Life Sciences. Health. Statistics plays a major role in dozens of career fields. Here's a calculator with the advanced capability you need to handle your projects. Comes with 
Calculating Better Decisions, a $4.95 book value. Helps you get the most out of the SR-51-II. Step:­by-step illustrations show how to use its powerful preprogrammed functions. Learn how to gather data. Weigh alternatives. Arrive at rapid, accurate decisions. 
*Suggested·retail price. 


TheMBJ\M 
Business calculator A business major's dream machine. 
If you're building a career in business, the MBA can be ideal. It provides instant answers to com­plex business problems at the touch of a key. It is preprogrammed for a wide variety of functions and formulas business professionals face every day. Take internal rate of return, for example, a valuable calculatio!l for accurate capital budget­ing. It's complicated, often difficult, and takes time. The MBA handles it in se·conds, for 12 ~o different cash flows! It also offers pro-n~ grammability-up to 32 keystrokes for ~[J solving repetitive probler"!'ls easily. 
TEXAS INSTRUMENTS 
©1977 Texas Instruments Incorporated INCORPORATED 4~530 


~~~--------~~~~--~--------------~~----~--~--~~--------------~---------------------~ ---­
6___..alth~e~o~b£.ls~ellr..Lrv~e~r_____T_h_u_rs_d_a_y,_s_e_p_te_m_b._e_r_a:_,_19_7_7 , 
Demonstrators protest Panama agreement 
[continued from page 1] by an ad hoc group called the Union, charged that Carter has not parking lot but would have to move The. Nazi leader, "group leader" Emergency Coalition to Save the told the American people the same up toward the steps -which they Jerry McGhee, said they had heard
Howard Phillips, national direct­
story about the canal treaties that did, marching in double rank. radio announcements about the
or of the Conservative Caucus, told Panama Canal. About 200 persons participated, holding up signs cal­Panamanian officials have told "Go away," shouted demonstrat-anti-treaty rally and decided to join the demonstrators who gathered 
ncar the OAS: "President Carter ling Torrijos a "tin pot dictator," their people. ors on the steps. Crane asked it bacause ''by signing the canal and Carter a ''human rights hypo­He said Linowitz', Panamanian whether the Nazis could be forced back over to the Panamanians it
is a human rights hypocrite for 
counterpart, Romulo Escobar Bet­to leave, and was told by an aide will become a Soviet-controlled
collaborating with the present re­crite." 
The coalition, made up of polit­ancourt, in an Aug. 19 speech to that the police said they could do asset.''
gime in Panama." 
Panama's national assembly, nothing to prevent their presence. 
He said the 1978 congressional ically conservative groups and 
mostly Republican law-makers, denied that the treaties would give 
elections would be "a referendum on whether we have leaders who planned a second demonstration the United States the right to Sacred Heart mass 
later, across the street from the intervene militarily if the canal'swill listen to the majority of the Pan American Union where the security was threatened, a pointpeople who oppose this treaty." 
to open school year 

treaty signing was to take place. that Carter has repeatedly stated. 
Earlier yesterday, a coalition of opponents of the treaty demon­Among the claims raised by "We demand to know-was Es­A Mass formally opening the r 5 p.m. Sunday.
speakers was that American tax­cobar lying to the Panamanians or
strated on the steps of the Capitol The fall semester of the Univer­
academic year at Notre Dame has 

payers will be forced to spend are we being lied to?" Crane said. 
to charge that Carter is surrender­been scheduled for 10:45 a.m. sity's 136th year began Aug. 30 ing the water-way to an "unstable, millions to help Torrijos' regime Halfway through the rally on the Sunday in Sacred Heart Church. and will continue through final 
pay off huge debts owed to several Capitol's east steps, six uniformed, 
venal, immoral leftist dictator of examinations Dec. 22. A mid­the highest order." U.S. banks. Sol Linowitz, the new crash-helmeted members of the versity president, will be the semester vacation has been sched­American Nazi Party showed up 
Fr. Theodore M. Hesburgh, Uni­

Rep. Robert Dornan, who used York banker who headed the U.S. principal celebrant and homilist. uled from Oct. 22 through 30 and a those words in describing Pan­treaty team, was referred to by one carrying a large sign reading Thanksgiving holiday is November ama's chief of government, Omar speaker as "the Bert Lance of "Keep the Canal, Dump Carter." New members of the faculty will 24 through 27. The spring semes­
To the consternation of rally
Torrijos, was only one of nearly a international negotiations." be introduced to administration ter begins Jan. 18 and will continue 
dozen congressmen and senators Rep. Philip Crane, R-Ill., c r-organizers, Capitol police told the through the Commencement
officials at a reception in the Center 

Nazis they could, not stand in the
who addressed the rally organized man of the American Conserv e for Continuing Education from 3 to Weekend of May 19-21. 
NOTICES 
MORRISSEY LOAN FUND 
Classified Ads
Student Loans $20-$150. 1 day walt. 1 percent Interest. Due In 30 days. LaFortune Basement. 11 :15­
M-F. -----------------­
12:15 For Sale: Gold & white shag carpet.
Need ride to Milwaukee Sept. 9. Call 
Room size. Call 8031. 

Mike 8946.
Byzantine Catholic and Eastern Orthodox students at NO and SMC adidas • "On Campus as well as any others Interested In Help Wanted: Service station at­complete line for all sports. Call Bill 
tendants. Apply at 4902 Western
Byzantine church life should stop at 3078. 
Ave. Clark Carwash.
the Campus Ministry Office (Mem­orial Library, near main entrance) For Sale: Stereo reel to reel tape
Desperately need tickets to Michi­
before September 16 to sign the list deck. 3 motors, 4 heads with Auto at the secretary's desk. Attempts gan State and Southern Cal. Please Revers. $500 new. Asking $225. Call are being made to organize a Pete 1182.
call Marianne at 1262. Byzantine Christian organization. 
Need ride for two to Milwaukee, Sat. 
'73 Vega, 2-door. Inspected. Black 
Sept. 10. Return trip if available.
Any desiring photos of Linda Ron­& white. $825.00. 234·5686. 
Call Steve 1037.
stadt taken in concert Monday, Aug. 29 (color or black & white) please Navajo jewelry for sale: choker and 
Wanted: 2 girls to share house. Call
contact John at 83-40 or 136 Zahm. earring sets, silver and penshell
Frani 234-3730. 
hieshi with turquoise and coral Going to Pittsburgh? Looking for stones. Wide selection -call Jim 
Wanted: 4 GA tickets for Southern
something to do Sat. after the 6805. 
Cal. will pay good bucks. Call 1423,
game? Party at Hutch's. Stop by 224 Dillon for directions. For Sale: Panasonic 8-track recorder
ask for Mike. excellent condition. $100 or best 
Wanted: Michigan State tickets ­
Typing. Reasonable rates. Call 8051 offer. Call Brian 8760. 
General admission, preferably. Will Sewing repairs. Reasonable. Call pay S. Call 4-4001 and ask for Sansui receiver 50-50 watts. Garrard 8051. Jeanne or Mo. turntable. Shure cartridge. Pioneer 3-way speakers. Teac reel to reel. 
up Pitt
We're looking for riders to Pitts­Desperately need to 5 Accessories. 8338. burgh for the game. Leaving Fri. 
tickets. Will pay top dollar. Call George 8689.
return Sun. Have room in our RV for 
4. Call Mike, Joe or Pete. 288-PERSONALS 
NEEDED: 1 or 2 student season's
2688. 
passes. Will pay good $$$. Call H & D, 283-8063-Ok, so now you only owe me 999,999.5 visits. (When I'm not 
FOR RENT Save my jugular! My parents from there they only count half). Anyway,
Seattle will carry razor blades unless I'm glad you read the ads, which is WIll share my house a mile from ND I have two Michigan State tickets. more than I can say for some with graduate student or faculty Call Mike 3510. ex-Keenanites I know. (I'm so member. Your own bedroom and subtle(.study. Sex, sex orientation not a Need GA and student football tix to G consideration. $125 month includes any home game. Call 8051. furnishings, utilities. 289-1798 7-10 STOMP PITT party tonight. Get 
p.m. or all Saturday. Wanted: Two Pitt tickets. Call Bob psyched up for a No. 1 season. 1014 8330. St. Louis Ave. 9:00-2:00. 
LOST& FOUND NEEDED: MUSICIANS--interested HAPPY BIRTHDAY JOE MUNDY! in being part of group to play for liturgies In halls-Sacred Heart. Call Gay Community of ND Gay Guide to
Lost: Set of keys In brown case. Seven assorted keys, lost between 6536 or 8832 between 9:00a.m. and ND-SB. $1.00. Pandoras or Box 206 D-1-Keenan-Walsh. PLEASE call 5 p.m. NO. Call8870 Fri. & Sat. 10-12 p.m. 
8051.------------­
Wanted: Babysitter for 3-year-old
L.ost: Sklndiver watch with brown Schneider & Lamana,
boy. Tuesday and Thursday from 1
leather band. Please call Mike 8889 I'm still waiting for you to ac­137 Zahm. knowledge your Personals.
p.m. to 5 p.m. (or 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.) Near. campus. 232-9541. g 
Lost: Wallet with ID Saturday night 
Need two GA Pitt tickets. Call Paula
between Engineering Au.dltorlum Lowest rates on campus Time, and Grace Hall. Useless to anyone .C-5732. Sports Illustrated. Call Tim or Bob else. Call Tom 6713. Reward. after 5 p.m. 272-0239. Money and 
Urgently needed I 6 USC tix. Will Fortune also available. pay_ top$$. Call Hutch 1692.
LOST: Set of keys on ring, between O'Shag-Ad. BldO.-Huddle-Ub. on Are you a licensed pilot? The Irish Wed. Aug. 31. Leathertabwlth blue Wanted: 1-2 roommates $75-$50 per Flyers offers you an economical way flowers. Teresa, 773-4. month. Utilities included. Near west to fly. For information call 663-4,
side. 288-9614. 6485, 1731 or attend meeting Thurs­Found: On sidewalf 1976 Holy Cross day Sept. 8, 4:30 In Rm. 105 Law preparatory class ring. Call Denise School.
NEED URGENTLY TWO ROOM­MATES FOR CAMPUS VIEW A­
-4-5-402. 
PARTMENT. PREFER AGE OVER Willy E. Merrill,22 YEARS. CALL HENRI 277-1983. I was good to see you again. Come visit. G
WANTED 
Need ride to U. of Illinois this Friday. Beth 1822. Looking for female student to share
Wanted: 1 Pitt ticket. Call Ken at 
apartment at Castle POint. $85 per
142-4. 
Wanted: 5 USC tickets. Call Paul at 
month. Call 272-1044. 1-424. 
Need ride to Cincinnati or vicinity, SKR,Sept. 23. Call 696-4. 
Desperately need 1 ticket to Michi­How come you are so patient with 
gan or Southern Cal. Call Dave klutzes like me? GFrantically need 2 GA tickets for 3542. Michigan State. Pay big bucks. Call 
North Quad girld love Grace RA'sMike 1170. 
Desperately need GA tickets to and Hall Staff. Michigan State and Southern Cal. Julio's needs delivery personnel. Will pay goods. Call Paul 1470. 
Terry, Brian, Sean, Ted & Sean,
Part-time or full-time. Guarantee What's up! Later!
$3.00 per '"?ur. Call 233-2354. FOR SALE lin Motto,
Student wanted for light housework. 
So sweet of you to acknowledge your3 to 4 hours per week. Good pay. 
Personal. Therefore, you'll continueCall 287-357-4. 
to see your name In print. G NEEDED: 1 or 2 tickets to Pitt Garage Sale: Lots of used furniture 
"News Flash...Madellne Couture 
game. Call Bill 8772. cheap. 1528 Spokane Lane. Sept. 8th hits the big 21 . For more excitingand 9th. 
details see her at Senior Bar. HappyMature women with experience 
Birthday, Mad, Love, Mary Juliewanted to kepp house for 5 guys and Karen.
with great porential and a big house. 
'72 Triumph Spitfire. Must sacrifice.
Please contact Tom Masano. 
$1300 or best offer. 232-3276 after 5. Student from Seattle-Portland uniteI Organization of a Northwest Club isTom Masano -289-9351. 
For Sale: Girls 24" one-speed underway -If you're interested in blcyble. Good co ~ltion. Lock in­bringing a little more of the beau­
Please, I need four Michigan tickets. 
cluded. $25.00. Cau 7409. tiful northwest to NO, we need yourCall Alicia 8117. 
unput • drop a line to Paul at P.O. Box 603 Notre Dame, Ind. 46556.
ATTENTION MUSICIANS! INTER­
Dissecting sets, supplementaryESTED IN SHARING YOUR TAL-­Chern, Blo textbooks. Science lab­Kinky sex? Come and see Friday
ENTS? THE "CELLAR" NOW 
ware, equipment, instruments. Call night at 70
LOOKING FOR TALENT. CALL 
8785 for more info. MERRELL 
3313 or 3331. 
SCIENTIFIC. ' 

UNIVERSITY FACULTY AND -CAMPUS STUDENTS 
Anyone who does not have a meal program which includes evening meals and wishes to 
.: attend the Carney '77 pimic dinner can purchase a ticket at the office of student adivites in LaFortune Student Center Wednes­day thru Friday. 
Carney '77 will be held from 4:30 p.m.-6:30 
p.m. on Friday, Septbember 9. Tickets are 
$3.35: 
HELD OVER 
The moat cont:rcnrenlal Ameltcma hero of our 
•...1111d one bell of a ....... 
~.. ~~.· 
lllfEGDIYPECK as 
· General ·---
MacARfHUR 
AlWIVfRSAl ~Clll~f •HCHNICOlOA® 1!1 weekdays 4;,45 9 :1 weekdays 7 :00 9:30 sat-sun sat;.sun 2:00 4:30 7:00 9:00 1:4.5 4:1 S 6:45 9:1 


~--------------------------------------------~-~.~--~.. ~.~--~--~--~-~-----~--~-~-----~~~_.------~~--~ 
p '0 

• 
SMC complains about water 
bv Maureen Sajbel 

Senior Staff Reporter 
Many St. Mary's students have noticed a change in the school's water in the past t,wo weeks. The water, according to some, has an iron taste to it and leaves a rust-colored residue in sinks, tubs, and toilets. 
"Every time I wash my hands I smell rust," complained one LeMans resident. "The water tastes terrible and the ice in the dining hall even has a yellowish color," she added. Some dorm residents have also complained about the yellowish stains left on clothes after using the school's machines. 
These conditions, while they may cause an inconvenience, are harm­less and temporary, according to Frank Koontz, director of maintain­
. St. Mary's students have been ance and operations at St. Mary's. complaining ~ately. about iron taste The current problems stem from an and rusty re~1due '"·water, but the inoperative water tank on campus. water doesn t cont~m. harmful s~b-The reservoir tank, known as the stances, SMC mamtlanance sa1d. high tank holds 25 000 gallons of 
[Photo by leo Hansen1 
Wise. judge defeated 
MADISON Wise. [AP] -Dane County Judge Archie Simonson, whose remarks linking sexual per­missiveness with rape created a furor in this liber;tl university communmity, was defeated in a recall election yesterday by an attorney with strong feminist back­ing. 
With 100 of Dane Cr 11ty's 137 wards reporting, Mori Krueger had rolled up 15,507 votes to Simonson's 11,735. 
The judge, whose regular six­year term expires next April, took an early lead in rural areas but quickly fell to second place as Madison ballots were counted. 
Simonson was forced into the recall election by a 35,000 sig­nature petition drive after he made comments from the bench linking rape and women's ~lothing. 
Ms. Krueger, who spent more than $15,000 in the campaign backed by area feminists, led the field of six candidates. There will be no runoff election. 
In third place was Daniel Mos­ser, an assistant family court commissioner, with 8,933 votes. 
Three other Madison attorneys were also running. William Brad­ford Smith had 5,101, while Robert Burr had 2,994 and Worth Piper 1,982. 
Simonson, who voted early in the day at the same school where three youths allegedly raped a 16-year­old girl last year, drew national attention and the anger of local feminists for his comments from the bench !turing a hearing in the case. 
The judge said during the cam­paign that his comments were rhetorical and he does not person­ally believe Madison's sexually permissive climate or provocative women's clothing makes rape a normal reacion in a young man. 
Chess team to play match 
Tl:e Notre Dame Chess Team will meet the South Bend Chess Club this Saturday at 9:30a.m. in Room 325 of the Mathematics and
Computer Science ·Building. The teams will compete on 25 
boards in their annual match for possession of the Donald Brooks Cup. The cup is named after South Bend's only Chess Master. 
Notre Dame has won three of five 
matches for the cup, but the trophyis presently held by the South Bend Club after their 18 to 5 victory last year. 
Persons interested in competing water and has bee~ out of use for two weeks for cleaning and re­painting purposes. 
"It was supposed tp be fixed up before you girls ever came back to school," Koontz appologized, "but it'll be fixed by the end of this week or the beginning of the next if it doesn't rain." 
Water for St. Mary's comes from the school's own well system and is currently being pumped from the school's number five well and through .a 15,000 gallon storage 
FRIDAY 3 -&pm

tank. Sequestering agents, chem­
icals that regulate iron levels in the 
water, are normally used in the 
HAPPY HOUR! 

system, but cannot be added to the water in this smaller capacity tank. "There is no chemical feeder in 
120Z· BEERS 35¢

the tank," said Koontz in explain­
ing the higher concentration of 
iron. But Koontz went on to say 12oz. mich 40' ·-
... 
that the water is "good, clean, -c 
hard, well water,"' and that there is 12oz.heineken 75' 
"not a thing wrong with it." 
The water conditions do not 
impose a health hazard, according 
to the St. Mary's Health Service. 
SATURDAY 1 -&pm

"I don't think a111y of our health 
problems are related to it," stated 
Gloria Chelminiak, one of the 2 OZ. BEERS -35t 
Infirmary nurses. The current. conditions haven't affected operations in the St. 10-11pm Mary's, "dining hall either, stated Food Service Director Charles 
victory

Flaim. "I havtm't noticed any 
problems with the water ·at St. 
shot o' schnapps

Mary's," he said. 
"It has affected the kid's clothes. 
That's been a complaint that we've 
heard," said Mary Ann Daly, 
assistant director of LeMans Hall. 
"The kids have been really nice 
about it when they understand that 
it's temporary." 
YOU AR:E~ CORDIALLY INVITED 
TO THE DEDICATJON OF THE NEW 
ANGELA JlTHLETIC FACILITY 
SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE WOMEN'S SPORTS: PROSPECTS AND PROBLEMS 
7:30 -8:45 p.m. 
8:45-10:00 p.m. 
8:30-9:30a.m. 
8:30 -9:30a.m. 
10:15-noon 
1:15 p.m. 
2:30p.m. 2:30 -3:30 p.m. 
' 
3:00-3:30p.m. 5:30-6:30p.m. 
8:00 p.m. 
9:30 -1 0 :00 a.m. 
10:00 _ 11:00 a.m. 
11 :00 _ noon 
o
12:00-12:3 p.m. 
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 9 
Banquet -Dining Hall -by resavatinJ1y -$5.00 -call 284-5787 . 
Miicki King Hogue -WOMEN'S ATHLETICS: A SIGN OF. TH TIMES -Dining Hall -Admic:sion to this talk is free. 
' SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 10 SPORTS COMMUNICATION-Workshop Posey Tucker-WSBT-"Which Way to The Locker Room?" 
AC~APTED PHYSICAL EDUCATION-Dr. Evelyn A. Davies-Professor of Physical Education, Indiana Universitv 
WOMEN'S SPORTS: PROSPECTS AND PROBLEMS -panel -Kathleen Cordes -Athletic director, Saint Marv's College -coordinator 
Wf)MEN'S COLLEGE ATHLETICS -"We're Surviving B!autifully'' 
' L.ea1nne Grotke -Department of Physical Edu-cation, Indiana University; member, Executive Board, Associa. ~on for Intercollegiate Athletics for Women (AIAW). . 
"WOMEN IN AMATEUR ATHLETICS"-Carmen Piasecki -Assistant to the United States Attorney for Northern Indiana; 2 time Amateur Golf Champion. 
"TirtE MAKING OF A CHAMPION"-Patty Berg-American Golf Hall of 
Fan1e; World Golf Hall of Fame. FORMAL DEDICATION CEREMONY-The Most Reverend William E. McManus, Bishop of the Fort Wayne-South Bend Diocese 
TEINNIS-Saint Mary's College vs. De Pauw University-doubles. 
VOLLEYBALL CLINIC AND DEMONSTRATION -Ball State University 
Volleyball team; Don Shondell, coach. H~1NDBALL CLINIC -Noel O'Sullivan -Physical Education Department, Notre Dame 
RA.CQUETBALLDEMONSTRATION-Jean Gorman, Saint Mary's College GOLF CLINIC-" Irons and Woods" -Pattv Berq 
TENNIS CLINIC-"Stroke Correction"-Joan Ramey, owner and director of Ramey Tennis Schools. Come dressed to play. MODERN DANCE CLINIC -Dance Kaleidoscope, laura Elmore, artistic 
dinector Djl~NCE KALEIDOSCOPE performance-O'l.aughlin Auditorium . ·SUNDAY, SEPTEMBER 11 "C.OMMUNITY RECREATION" -John Boruff -Assistant Supervisor, South Bend Parks and Recreation "SPORTS AND RELIGION" -SisterKatherine Reichert C.S.C. -Director, Campus Ministry, Saint Mary's College; former Minnesota Golf Champion 
FENCING CLI,.IC-Michael DeCicco-Coach of the University of Notre Dame Fencing Team 
uTH E SHORT GAME" -Carmen Piasecki KARATE CLINIC AND DEMONSTRATION-"Women's Self Defense" ­
.

Myong Kim (6th degree black belt) and Barbara Copeland (2nd degree 
All events open to the public. black belt) of Myong Kim's Karate School ' 
should call 234-9648. -----·-----···lil;;:;;;;;==-=;;;;;:;;=======~~-=;:,;.;:,~..;.;:~~..;.;,;~;.:,:.~:.;.;.;.~:..:;:,;,.:;,;~:..:.;,~-------------.....,..11 
by Bone Bourret Sports Writer  shoulder continue.  injury With  and still  could over  not nine  and passing in only 2 and one-half quarters of playing time.  
Rusty Lisch does not have the experience of Tom Clements, the  minutes left, Lisch was forced to take command of the offense, a team he had quarterbacked less  Dispite his apparent inexper­ience, it will be his third game on national television. The national  
bravado and slipperiness of Joe Theisman, the passing accuracy of  than 20 minutes in his previous varsity career. "I really was not  TV cameras won't cause Lisch any worries, but the Panther defense  
Terry Hanratty, or even the smarts of current Notre Dame Law Student Rick Slager, but few Notre Dame quarterbacks of the past were as  that nervous when I entered the game," Lisch ·commented in ret­rospect. "When I go into a game I don't think about the crowd or the  will. "Pittsburgh will present problems to the offense and me particularly because they have one of the best secondaries in the  
fine an all-around athlete. Saturday's starting signal caller for Notre Dame has many assets in his repetoire of offensive talents.  importance of the game. I just go in and run the plays. I never even hear the crowd.'' If Lisch had heard the crowd he  country. But, I've worked hard on my throwing all summer, passing to Kris Haines on the quad and at Cartier Field when we were both at  
He is a very strong runner and few  would  have  been  listening  to  summer school.''  
passers  in  the  country  have  as  countless cheers as he secured the  The  Belleville,  Illinois  native,  
strong  an  arm.  His  6-4  frame  Irish  victory  with  two  key  third  who lives a few football fields from  
allows him to get the optimal possible view of a play as it  down 21-yard runs on bootleg plays in the final minutes.  Jimmy Conners, had a full sched­ule this summer. He was in class  
develops. "I would not categorize myself  The following Saturday he made the only start of his varsity career  fr~m eight until noon working on credits toward his Architecture  
as a running or a passing quarter- against the Miami Hurricanes,  a  degree.  From about 1 p.m.  until  
back," says the baby faced Lisch. ''I like to be regarded as an all-around player, who is consid­ game the Irish needed to win to be extended a bowl invitation. Lisch proved he has the potential to be an  3:30 p.m. he threw spirals to his football mates before heading to the "Rock" for a little basketball  
ered at least a threat to do one or the other. Even in high school I  exellent passer in this game, completing five passes for over 100  with the likes of Adrian Dantley, Quarterback Rusty Lisch will be required to utilize all hisDuck Williams and the rest of the  
was not considered to be exclus­ively one or the other. I only threw about 15 passes a game." Lisch showed his versatility in the final three regular season contests last season. His first taste of pressured varsity competition came against Alabama in a nation­ally televised game. With Notre Dame holding on to a tenuous 21-18 lead, Rick Slager suffered a  yards. His finest aerial of the game, and of the season, was a 42-yard strike to Da Kelleher 1:20 before the half, a score that gave the Irish a commanding 17-0 lead. His final appearance of the season was in another nationally televised extravaganza against Southern California. Rusty had his finest total offense day as he accounted for 163 yards rushing  varsity B-Ball team. After dinner, until sundown, he marched to the golf course for a quick nine. Golf could be Rusty's best sport if he dedicated himself to it. Although a bit eradic, he has been known to shoot in the mid-seventies when he can control an unpredictable slice. ''Participating in the other sports helps my football abilities. Basket­ball helps my quickness and reac­tion, and builds endurance. Golf is  ball-handling skills to ensure an "It was getting dark, so I had to hurry ifl wa going to get nine holes in. I would have made it but I lost my only ball on number seven.'' If a sports writer wants an in depth interview with Mr. Lisch this year after a fine performance on a sunny day he better reserve ' a late afternoon tee time at Burke Memorial. But, Lisch's chief atheltic goal is  Irish victory this Saturday. Devine stated "He has improved immensely since his freshman year. All he does is study and play football. He is not only a fine passer and runner, but he possesses fine leadership qual­ities." At the moment, Lisch may not excell in all the categories that typify an All-American quarter­back. But, the talent is there.  
Tennis team victorious  good for your timing, but I play golf because it relaxes me. I just love to play."  excellence in football. "Rusty is a very dedicated athlete,'' coach  Saturday would be a perfect time for Lisch to unleash.  

L the observer Thursday, September 8, 1977 . .., 
Lisch: an all-around athlete ,prepared for the challenge a 
His postgame activities after the 
victory over Alabama last season, a by Laurie Reising winners on this years team." triumph in which he played an Women's Sports Editor The squad Will have a chance to important role, verifies his love for 
*Observer

prov e themselves this weekend as golf. Minutes after his fine The Notre Dame women's tennis they face some formidable com­performance he belted for his room team made an impressive debut petition. Friday, they will be at in Morrissey Hall. His abrupt exit yesterday afternoon when they home hosting Depauw University. left the national press writers in a easily took care of visiting St. 
The matches are scheduled to quandry, for they wanted to discuss Joseph's College, 9-0. The Irish begin at 4 p.m. Immediately after the day's occurrences with the won all of their matches, never 
the conclusion of that event the humble sophomore. Why did 
Sportsallowing their opponents the 
team leaves for Upland, Indiana Rusty make such a hasty de­opportunity of a third set. 
where they will be participating in parture? It was not to rest and The women netters looked ex­a doubles tournament at Taylor savor the victory, and certainly not ceedingly strong and confident in University. to get an early start on celebrating. 
the singles action. In first singles, 
junior Mary Shukis had minimal Tom Desmond============================================================================================:::=======================================================~:=====>:===========================-============================================================= difficulty in her first set but came back strong in the second as she subdued St. Joseph's Betsy Fi.n}; 6-4,6-1. The match contained some 
Strategy
excellent volleys and great shots. 
Paddy Mullen soundly thrashed 
her opponent, Barb Fink, 6-0,6-0. 
Jean Barton, new to the tea10 this 
===============·;·=======================·==========;·========:==================:='='========='========~==::=========================================================================~========================================================================
season, also had a tough first set, In a little more than 48 hours Dan Devine will lead the Fighting Irish If and when the Irish go upstairs Lisch has able-bodied receivers in Ken 
but like Shukis, turned it on in the onto the astroturf of Pitt Stadium in the hope of taking a big step toward MacAfee and Kris Haines. Pitt will try to set up its running game with the 
second to put down Karen 0' the National CJiampionship that the country's scribes have predicted for pass, the Irish will do the opposite, set up an effective passing game with 
Brien, 6-4,6-0. Irish co-captain, them. Although the season's opener, the game will have a great deal of a successful ground attack. 
Diane Shillingburg, breezed to a bearing on the entire campaign for both squads and the title hopes may The ball control offense hits Pitt right where they are the weakest--at 
6-2, 6-1 victory over Lucy Shep­vanish completely for the team that comes up on the short end of the defensive line and linebacker. Pitt returns All-American Randy Holloway 
herd. score. at defensive tackle as the lone returnee in the Panthers 5-2 defense. 
The freshmen singles players Fui'fher, this match of two independent powers will provide the first set Holloway and the newcomers will have to neutralize the Irish offensive 
showed no signs of first game of answers to questions that have dominated the pre-season speculations. line in an effort to force Notre Dame away from a ball control style into a butterflies as they convincingly Can Pitt defend its National title without Tony Dorsett? Are the Irish as passing game. 
won their matches. Maureen strong as the prognosticators feel they are? Can a defensive lineman The Panthers can handle a passing attack. Returning intact from last Noonan handed her opponent, really challenge for the Heisman? And, finally, how strong is the Sports year is the entire defensive secondary who intercepted 28 passes last Cathy McGrath, a 6-1,6-0 defeat, mustrated jinx? fall-second in the nation. Bob Jury, an All-American, leads this band of while teammate Sioban Kilbride A capacity crowd of over 56,000 and millions more via television will thieves who will have to help out the inexperienced frontliners in stopping was trouncing Cathy Meyer 6-0, 
witness a game filled with strategy on Saturday. Here is a capsule look at the Irish ground attack if they are to force the Irish to throw the ball giving 6-2. When asked how it felt what coaches Dan Devine and Jackie Sherrill hope their teams can do them a chance to who their larceny skills. 
winning her first match for Notte 
during the twilight hours in the Steel City. When Pitt is on offense: The Specialists: Carson Long and Larry Swider handled all ofthe kicking for Dame, Kilbride remarked, " It was strategy for the Panthers is dictated by their personnel. Experienced at the Panthers over the last four seasons and JackieSherrifi has-a big task in 
really exciting; I was a little the skill positions, but young in the line, Pitt will look to the big play. replacing them. The Irish on the other hand have Dave Reeve and Joe nervous at first though." 
With quarterback Matt Cavanaugh throwing to speedsters Gordon Jones Restic back to handle the kicking duties, an area in which the Irish have In the doubles competition, 
and Willie Taylor the Panthers have the people to pull off the big play. been strong in the past two years.
senior Eleanor McManus and Tom Brzoza is the only returning lineman and Elliot Walker, who has Analysis: Pitt will try to get on the board early and often with the big junior Anne Kelly combined their spent the last three autumns in the shadow of Tony Dorsett, is the only play for both emotional and tactical reasons. Early scores will bolster the expertise to take care of the Fink experienced running back. Wl.at this amounts to is a running attack that support from the partisan fans as well as force the Irish away· from a twins 6-1,6-0. Notre Dame's own is centered around an inexperienced line and will probably be used to keep ground-oriented attack. The Irish defense will surely be tested early and set of twins, Shiela and Laura 
the Irish defense honest with action passes and wide-running option must stop the big play ifNotre Dame is to be successful. If the game turns Cronin, the only doubles team to plays. into a track meet it will be to the Panthers favor. 
have ever played together before 
Defensively, the Irish line has a clear cut advantage in experience and For the Irish to get the upper hand they will have to exploit their yesterday's match, took care of the will set out to control the line of scrimmage. Another goal of Browner, Fry experience advantage in the trenches. If the Irish can pressure
duo of O'Brien and Shepherd 
et al will be to put pressure on Cavanaugh whenever he drops back as to Cavanaugh on defense and establish a potent ground attack then Jackie 6-3,6-2. Finally, Sue Leininger and prevent the big plays that are a long time in developing. Sherrill will be in for a long afternoon watching his high powered offense Maureen Noonan had an easy time The defensive backfield's task will be to avoid giving up the break-away stand on the sidelines while his defense tries to stop the Irish. 
as they posted scores of 0 and 1 pass or run that shifts the momentum. Along wttn the linebackers, the The Irish have the revenge motive. Pitt has the home crowd and a against opponents McGrath and secondary will have to place a premium on reading the play-action passing two-game winning streak over the Irish behind them. In the past, some Cathy Meyer. 
and options of Cavanaugh who is skilled at deceptive ball-handling. teams have been afraid to defeat the "tradition" of Notre Dame (NavyFor Irish coach, Sharon Petro it When the Irish have the ball: Like the defense, the Irish offensive line over the last few years) but the Panthers have the confidence and was a great start in her career at will enjoy an experience advantage over their Pitt opponents. The Irish cockiness it takes to win as evidenced by Matt Cavanaugh's, "I can't wait Notre Dame. ·Petro said she was return six regulars in the offensive front line--the Panthers but one. This to play Notre Dame" interview on ABC's pre-season show. But emotion "extremely excited over all of her 
will be key as the Irish will look to a bal: control, run-oriented offense. can only carry a team so far. 
git;ls performances." Captain 
Will Jerome Heavens and Vagus Fe~guson in the backfield the Irish have Last year the Irish scored on their first possession and !he emotion was Diane Shillingburg was even more two "fullbacks" in physical size but a pair of "halfbacks" in runnin~ style at a peak. But after Tony Dorsett scampered 61 yards on his first carry the elated as she remarked that she and ability. iAdd to that quarterback Rusty Lisch, himself an accomplished emotions died and talent took over. When talent takes over on Saturday, was "unbelievably .optimistic, we runner and option-quarterback and the Irish have the personnel to run the it will do so first iJI the trenches; a place where the advantage is in favor of 
could possibly have .11 monogram ball control offense. the Irish. 









