
Aging made a problem by incorrect stereotypes 
by Katie Kerwin News Editor 
EDITOR'S NOTE: This Is the Orst In a four-part series of articles dealing with the Church's ministry to the elderly. This article wUI attempt to give a brief proffie of the problems faced by the aging. Succeeding articles will treat tradi­tional Church responses to the needs of the elderly and look at some new approaches to the situa­tion and new directions of action, Including South Bend Harvest House program. 
"We have been overcome lately by a sense of the losses that old age brings. We labor under the image that aging implies decline with no gain in it," Dr. Paul Pruyser told an audience in Haggar Hall on April14. 
Pruyser, a psychologist from the Menninger Foundation in Topeka, Kansas, described aging as a process of gains and losses, neither of which should be denied or minimized. 
Pruyser's talk, entitled "Aging: Downward, Upward or Forward?" discussed several varied views on aging. Pruyser described what he said he sees as a prevailing view: that life has a peak, preceded by a rise, and followed by a decline, like a distribution curve or an ocean wave. 
"This illusion is being reinforced time and time again --so often that we lose sight of testing it and take the illusion for reality without knowing if it's true or not," he asserted. 
Pruyser encouraged his listeners to be critical of stereotypes regard­ing old age. His presentation included an enumeration of some of the positive and negative effects of aging. 
"Losses exist --there can be little doubt of it," he said. "Aging entails a shocking loss of personal dignity." Many indignities are experienced and they tend to fall harder on the deprived, he noted. 
Although far from all elderly are infirm, 38 percent do suffer from some kind of chronic condition which limits their activities. Half of these have serious problems and five percent are homebound. One million elderly live in nursin~ 
[continued on page 9) 

server 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's 
Vol. XI, No. 120 Wednesday, April 27, 1977 

Library noise problem discussed at HPC 
bv Bob Varettoni meet with Richard Sullivan, Un­
Senior Staff Reporter iversity registrar, and the deans of the University colleges to discuss the registration process. Lux urged 
David Sparks, director oi Univer­all students with complaints about sity libranes, told the Hall Pres­registration to call Ombudsman idents Council last night in St. office (7638) by Monday. Joseph's Hall that high costs will Tom Gryp, Student Union direc­limit the structural work that can be tor, made his first report to the 
done to decrease noise in the HPC, saying that he was "psyched Memorial Library. about next year." He said that 
As a result, Sparks asked the projects wuch as the competition to HPC to "use their influence within design a new logo for SU are the halls" to get more student designed to change SU's image." cooperation. Sparks said that in­"Now is the time we can really coming freshmen will also be get things started,'' Gryp said. informed about the "drive for "Next fall our bUdget will be made quiet." up for the entire year, so now is the 
"We can no longer stand by and time for new ideas.'' have students orientated into Notre Last night was the last regular Dame with the idea that the library business meeting for the HPC this is a social gathering place," he year. However, the HPC will said. conduct a development workshop 
Estimates on plans for carpets, for the new hall presidents Tuesday sound proof doors, and enlarging night. "the Pit" are now being made by Two more appointments will be Edwin Lvon. director of mainten­made at the workshop, chairman of ance. Sparks said these and other ~he An Tostal committee and HPC plans may not be approved by Student Life Council representa­University Provost Fr. James Burt­tive. Students interested in either chaell because of the cost. of these jobs should contact Russell 
However, according to Sparks, (3204) before Tuesday. booths and tables will be installed int he Pit next week. Windows will also be installed in the doors to the tower seminar rooms. 
Sparks said the windows will allow the rooms to be kept open at 
Free University course descriptions
night, providing some study space away from the noise. These rooms by Mark Perry ing dates and times printed on it.
are now lockedat 5 p.m. because ''a process. tricks and flourishes, coin, sponge
Staff Reporter Most coursrs are scheduled to start ··Photography (Mon., 7 p.m.) will .
few years ago students were dis­balls and cigarette tricks. (Practice
the second week of the fall semes­give a basic understanding of required).
covered making out in them." 
Last night the HPC also ap­ter. 35mm photography, including tak­··106 Juggling (Tue., 7 p.m.) shows proved the appointment of a new The course descriptions and Courses are open to all students, ing, developing, and printing of how to juggle all kinds of objects Executive Coordinator, Tracy Kee, times for-next semester's Free faculty, and staff of Notre Dame pictures. (1 Camera, 1 book, 58 fee and variations. 
a junior from Farley Hall. The University have been released by and St. Mary's, and also to any required). ··107 Standut Flnt Aid and Safety chairman Charlie Moran, and reg­other residents of the Michiana ·-103 Photography B (Mon., 8 (time undecided) is designed to
executive coordinator acts as an 
assistant to the chairman and istration for courses has been set region. There will be no class p.m.) is for the person who has meet the immediate need of a for next Tuesday and Wednesday separation at registration, so fresh­taken Photo I or has a working person who has taken ill or is
oversees the funding for An Tostal. 
J.P. Russell, HPC chairman, in LaFortune Ballroom from 8:30 men, sophomores, and juniors can knowledge of the photographic involved in an accident before chose Kee over Joe McCarthy, a a.m. to 4:30 p.m. all sign up starting next Tuesday. process. It will delve into the medical help arrives. (Fee for 
junior from Dillon Hall. The HPC Moran said that a computer Free University asks that when Kodalith medium, reflective ton­textbook). registration will be used, similar to you come to register, be sure to ing, applied color, and if time
unanimously approved Russell's --1os Cardlopalmonary ResiiiCfta.
the one used for registration for know the numbers of the courses permits non-silver process. (1 Cam­
choice. tlon (time undecided) teaches one 
Russell announced that Grace regular classes. When students that you want. era, 525 for materials, 1 book for to assist a victim of a respiratory or 
Hall has been selected as the arrive at the Ballroom, Moran said, The following is a list of courses SIS required). 
cardiac emergency until help ar­

Rockne Trophy winner for the they will go to one table and receive offered by Free University for the --104 Water Safety (Tue., 7 p.m.) 
rives. (Fee for textbook). 

month of March. Among the hall's a card with their name and J.D. fall semester of 1977, along with a will teach the novice skipper hand­number on it. Then they will short description, times, and lab ling under normal and adverse ··109 Sycluonlzed Swfmmlna
activities was a wine and cheese 
fees or requirements, if a~y: (Tue., 7 p.m.) will stress the basiws
party with section leaders from proceed to another table and conditions, navigation during day
--101 The Art of Beerm8khig of water ballet, with all levels of
Breen-Phillips Hall. Howard and receive cards for the courses that and night, legal re'luirements, and 
(Wed., 7 p.m.) will teach tech-skills worked on. (Noseplugs; suits
Alumni halls were runner-ups for they· wish to take, common emergenctes. 
the award. At the beginning of the school niques needed to make a good ··lOS Magic--Sleight of Band are required, and you must be an intetmediate swimmer). 
Tom Lux, Ombudsman director., yea.r next 1\ugu'>t they will receivl" a batch of beer, including all phases (Mon., 7 p.m.) shows how to do announced th.1t Tuesday he wid sL·et with i:lteir courses and start-of the bottling and fermentation close-up tricks, including card [coatlaaed • N• JtJ. 

-i·· 

the obse;-vei Wednesday, April 27, 1977 
,....._--News Briefs---.. 
._ -Nat!~nal SALT negotiations resume May 11 
WASHINGTON The Unitetl States and the Soviet Union announced yesterday they will resume working-level negotiations on a strategic arms limitation treaty in Geneva beginning May 11. The announcement was released simultaneously here and in Moscow and added that the two sides agreed to "exchange views at other levels"" on SALT. 
Carter, Hussein conclude talks 
WASHINGTON President Carter concluded talks with Jordan's King Hussein yesterday and said it would be better not to have a Geneva conference on the Middle East "unless we see some strong possibilities for substJntial achievement." 

President's energy plan hits snag 
Washington . -President Carter's proposal to reorganize the federal energy apparatus hit another snag yesterday as the Senate Government Affairs Committee considered a major modification, endorsed by committee chairman Abraham Ribicoff, that would diminish the power of the new energy secretary. Ribicoff said he does not think the power to regulate both natural gas and oil prices should be lodged with the new energy secretary 
~===============L~ 


Weather 

SOUTH BEND --Mostly sunny today with highs in the low 70's. There is a 30 percent chance of showers this afternoon and evening with lows in the upper 40's. The threat of rain will continue tomorrow with highs in the low 70's. 

On Campus-Today 
11 am­

5 pm • show, two man show, father and son: a serious approach to playful art or a playful approach to serious art, don & jim vogl, isis gallery. 
12:15 pm-seminar, "cell surface macromolicules" by dr. . ------s"abnash c:-basu;depr.·orcfiem. -,;~-d:;-sporls()red by-­
3:30pm­
4:30pm­
4 pm-
5:15pm­
6:30pm­
6:30pm­
6:30pm­
6:45pm· 
7 pm­
7 pm · 

I. 
7 pm · 7:30pm· 
7:30 & 
10:30 pm 
8 pm · 
8 pm-
8:15pm­

9:00-' "11:30 pm-dept. of mcrobiology, rm. 278 galvin life science. 
seminar, "the use of boundry-fitted coordinate systems for numerical solution of the navier-stokes equations" by dr. joe thompson, prof, aerophysics & aerospace eng., miss, state univ., sponsored by aerospace & mech. eng., rm. 303 eng. aud. 
really good fiction series, readings, music & gathas by jackson maclow & co., sponsored by engl. dept., crowley recital hall. 
lecture, "the truth of reason and the truth of vision" (second part) by prof., eric voegelin, mem. library 
~ud. 

mass, for all wor_ld hunger coalition tasters, walsh chapel everyone welcome. 
student gov. weekly forum, Iafortune ballroom, everyone welcome. 
program, "everything you always wanted to know about senior year but were afraid to ask," sponsored 
by the career dvmt. center stapleton lounge, smc.  &  smc  senior  class,  
workshop, anxiety management workshop, sored by smc counseling center, clubhouse.  spon­ 

meeting, al-alon fellowship for family & friends of those with a drinking problem, rm. 400, mem. library. 
meeting, gu honor society, election '77-'78 officers, rm. 104, o'shag. 
meeting, elections for international student org., international student lounge. 
fantasy and religion symposium, "the inklings," by clyde kilby, library aud. 
american scene cultural series, "sad, sad, sad first ladies and some notable exceptions" by holman hamilton, univ. of kentucky, carroll hall. 
film, "netropolis" by fritz lang, sponsored by cinema '77, $1 eng. aud. 
sixth annual civil rights lectures, "human rights: a global assessment" by a. h. robertson un iv. or paris, held in conjunction with human rights symposium, april 27-30, cce aud. 
lecture, "methods of outdoor environmental educa­tion by prof. dnald von meter, sponsored by impirg, rm. 202, architecture bldg. 
concert, univ. of n.d. chorus, sacred heart, $1. 
nazz, jim dorgan, original woodgie lebo & rhythm section. 

COUP urges additional financial assistance for students 
by Marti Hogan Editor-In-Chief 
~dltor's note: This is the fifth in a series explaining the COUP re­commendations and their relation to The Campaign for Notre Dame. 
In any university, students are the center of life on campus, and Notre Dame is no exception. The Committee on University Priorities considered the needs of the stu­dents and urged additional support in the form of student assistance. The Campaign for Notre Dame has directed SIS million to student assistance covering financial aid. recruitment and extracurricular or­ganizations and activities. 
The premise "Talent should open the doors of Notre Dame, not the ability to pay" has long ruled financial aid at Notre Dame. In recent years. however, the cost of student expenses including tuition. room and board and in­cidentals has risen considerably while the amount of money avail­able for financial aid has not. 
Non-University sources of money such as federal and state student aid are leveling off in their support. 
The University therefore, feels the need to increase its own resources with a $12 million endowment for financial aid. 

The lack of money for financial aid is not the only problem Notre Dame has faced in the recruiting students. The number of Catholic secondary schools which were once the source of two-thirds of the University's students, has de­clined. In addition the enrollment ---of-private eolleges and universities is half of what it was 25 years ago. 
To meet these problems, the · University has decided that the Admissions Office must make sev­
1he Ob-.t>rwr 1\ publ1'oht>d Mond.tv through I ndav and wet>kl~ dunng tht> summt•r '"''~1011. t>xet•pt during th<> exam and vacation rwnods The Ob~erwr 15 published by students of the Uniwrs1ty of -Notrt> DJmt• and St Mary's Collt>IW Subslription<; may he purrha-;pd for $20 pt>r yt>ar ($10 pPr st>mt>stt>r) from Tht> Obst>r­ver, Box Q, Notre DamP, lnd1ana 46556 St>cond class po-;tagt> paid, Notrt> Damt>. lndlilna 465~6 
Tht> Obst>r.vt>r i-; a mt>mllt'r of tht> 
Assonatt>d Press All rt'productlon 
nght' are rPservt'd 

eral improvements, all of which require additional funds. 
These improvements include in­creasing the rapport with public high schools, increasing the num­ber of high schools visited by Notre Dame admissions officers, in­volving more Notre Dame alumni in the recruiting process, and updat­ing the management of admissions data in order to respond to appli­cants for admission in a shorter period of time. 
The chief problem in meeting these goals is the limited admis­sions office staff. The University plans to provide the office with trained personnel in three areas: high school relations, alumni re­lations and minority ethnic re­cruitment. Additional data man­agement specialists, counselors and interviewers will join the admissions office staff. The Cam­paign is seeking an endowment of $1 million to support these recruit­ment program improvements. 
Another aspect of campus life which is financially needy is extra­curricular organizations and activi­ties. The majority of these organi­zations now support themselves by, for example, selling Christmas cards or hotdogs at football games. 
The Student Activities Office was established to help extracurricular organizations cope with their finan­cial problems and use their limited funds more efficiently. 
The University believes, how­el(er, that the implementation of a fund which would be under the discretionary control of the Student Activities Office, would underwrite 
Special Wed.&rhurs. Tostada Dinner$L.60 
11 a.m. to 11 p.m. 233-0385 526 Wt!stern Ave., South Bend 


FINAL PRE CANA SESSION Saturday May 7th 
9:30am-4:30pm 
Anyone who has not signed up for Pre Cana instructions yet, please sign up for this one day conference. Contact Campus Ministry 103 Library -Ext. 6536, 8832. 
April 26 & 27 


Engineering Aud. 7:30 and 10 Admission $1.00 
the functioning of student organ­izations. 
Gifts of $25,000 and over can be named and restricted to a student activity of the donor's choice. The campaign hopes to endow student activities with $2 million. 
Tomorrow: The Campaign for Notre Dame and Physical Facil­ities. 
*The Observer 
Night Editor: Paul Schappler Asst. Night Editor: Laurie McNulty Editorial Layout: Drew Bauer Features Layout: Dave O'Keefe Sports Layout: Paul Stevenson Typists Mary Corbett, Anne Giere, Kathy Egbert, Leigh Tunakan Early Morning Typist: Martha Fanning Day Editor: Kate Flynn Copy Reader: Joan Fremeau Photographer: Jim Hofman 


I saw the sun 

.J 
Wednesday, April 27, 1977 the observer 




'No lectures course' to be instituted at SMC 

Editor's Note: This is the third of a is the philosophy upon which St. 'llaterial is contained in study expected to discuss the test an­in freshman calculus classes taught (ow-part series on innovative edu­Mary's math department bases its guides provided for each of the 14 swers, ask for explanations, as­by PSI, on the average cover more cational prog1ams .at St. Mary's. Personalized System of Instruction units and in the text. Each study sumptions and processes employed material and retain it longer than Tomorrow's final article wiD deal (PSI) program. guide includes problems, objec­in the solution. Only when she is those taught in a lecture situation. with tandem cowses between de­According to Sister Miriam P. tives and reading assignments for satisfied that the student fully 
Consequently, although PSI got

partments. Cooney, chairman of the math that unit. understands the material of the 
its biggest start in junior and

department and the course instruc­After the student has completed unit will she give a grade of passing 
community colleges in the United 

tor, PSI is an alternate mode of a unit, she is given a test to and sign the test form. Every 
States and in Brazil where there is by Jean Powley learning for the student who determine whether or not she has member of the class is expected to a shortage of teachers, it has notSt. Mary's Editor doesn't want lectures, but would mastered the material. proctor. 

become extremely popular in major 

rather assume responsiblity for her The student must also demon­If a student fails an exam, she 
colleges and universities 1around

Th(lreau once said, ''The man who own education. strate her mastery of the material must take her notebook of written the country. MIT's entire firstyear goes alone can start today; but he There are no lectures in this to a student who has already definitions, theorems and solved physics program is taught by PSI, who travels with another must wait three-credit, second semester-only passed that particular unit test, problems to the proctor for advice . as is much of the University of on details to be studied. She may . Texas' engineering school. Thethen take a second version of the 
University of Michigan also has test on the next testing day. A unit made great use of the method. 

test may be taken three times, but 
Use of PSI has become sonot without a converence with the · widespread in the teaching ofinstructor after the second attempt. 

psychology, music, geography,In addition to the unit work, each 

student must a chemistry and math, that a center
complete major for PSI research and information

project which is presented as a has been established at George­term paper before taking the final. 
town University in Washington,Present at each session, besides D.C. and regular conferences arethe professor, is a course manager held to discuss and evaluate thewhose responsibility is to protect method.

the tests and service the needs of the students. She acts as the 
"Those students who like it, like course secretary and is usually 
t a lot," Cooney said, adding, "It someone who plans a career in 
is very gratifying for a math education. Some managers are 
teacher to hear students talking paid for their work, while others 
enthusiastically about math for a Ichange!"

use it to gain one or two hours of 
I

education credit. Introduction to Statistics, Math 
Seniors choose

114, is the course which is being taught by the PSI method this semester. However, two courses in San Francisco Elements of Linear Algebra have been taught in the past. for Senior Trip
Thirty students, most of whom are nursing, business of elemen· San Francisco was chosen as tary education majors, are enrolled next year's senior trip, according to in this special statistics course in a survey distributed to all seniors. which there is no penalty or The trip, scheduled for the week of nagging if one does not come to October break, will begun Sunday, class and in which each student is October 23 through Oct. 30. treated as an "individual learner." Estimated cost of $275 will 
The PSI method was developed include hotel accomodations for The play 'Mother Courage' was performed before a sizeable audience in Vegatable Buddies last by Fred S. Keller, an Arizona State four people per room, car rentalnight. It was sponsored by ND-SMC theater. [Photo by jim Hofman] 
!University professor, in his article "Good-Bye Teacher." Employing 
B. F. Skinner's theories about posi­tive reinforcement, immediate 
feedback and working at one's own pace, Keller along with Gilmour by Chris Datzman After the recording, Kilby re­Tonight will conclude the three Sherman developed PSI in 1965. with unlimited mileage for four 
Senior Staff Reporter lated some anecdotes about Lewis day symposium with a lecture "The His reasoning was that if the · passengers per car and airfare. that he has found in his 35 years of Inkings" by Kilby. Topics for instructor learns the most from A nonrefundable deposit of SSO, reading and studying Lewis. Kilby discussion include who we are, the teaching a course, then why not let preferably paid by check to the 
One of the highlight's of last noted that Lewis's most important scope from naturalism to being the students be the teachers. Class of $78, is required by May night's Symposium on Fantasy and belief was obedience to God, and "little Christs" and how myth and Another plus for PSI is that 9. Money may be paid in the Religion was a thirteen minute tape that Lewis fully intended to be as religion fits into all this. Following students receive immediate an­Lafortune lobby beginning Mon­recording of C.S. Lewis's BBC devout and holy as St. Thomas tonight's session will be a reception swers to their questions without day, May 2 through Monday, May broadcasts. The tape, procured by Aquinas. in the Library Lounge. listening to the questions of others. 8, from 2-5 p.m. Clyde Kilby, featured the English "One thing about Lewis' appear­The Myth and Religion Sym­Recent research at Ohio State Call senior trip chairman Tom theologian-author delivering one of ance was that although he appear­posium is sponsored by the Student University seems to prove PSI's O'Niell (1855) for further his wartime lectures on Christian­ed to be a saint, he didn't look like Union Academic Commission. worth. ·Students randomly placed informatiQil. ity. -one--he wasn't frail and pale," said 
Kilby spent more than four years Kilby. "He was a hearty man with trying to obtain a copy of the rare · a big laugh, a big voice and a very Schedule tape from the BBC and asked that red face." all other tape recorders be turned The first half of the evening off during it because of an agree­featured a lecture by Otto Bird, a ment with the BBC. professor of General Program at 

C.S.Lewis tape highlights Symposium 
Human Rights Symposium
In the recording Lewis spoke Notre Dame. His lecture, "Christ­about prayer and what it means to ianity and Fairy Tales", explored . Wednesday "The Implementation of Ruman l<ights," by KarJ be a Christian. the connections between the world ! 8 p.m. Opening Session Vasak, director of the International Institute of Human 
"Christianity is having the nat­of fantasy and Christianity. Welcome: Fr. James T. Burtchaell, provost Rights (Strasbourg) ural self be changed into the Christ Bird characterized these con­"Human Rights: A Global Assessment" by A. H. "Monitoring Human Rights Violations," by Nigel S. self," said Lewis. "One would nections into four categories: Robertson, University of Paris Rodley, Amnesty International (London) think that because of the strong i The worlds created by fairy tales taste of salt it would kill any other 1 are those comparable to the after Thwsday 2 p.m. -5 p.m. Session V tastes. Instead it brings out the life in Christianity. 9 a.m. -12 p.m. Session H Priorities In American Foreign Polley ud Human real taste. It's the same with· The seek for the quest in a world Human Rights, The PhUosophlcal Problem Rights Christ. By committing yourself to of adventure where virtue is de­Chairman~Rapporteur: Frederick J. Crosson, Uni-Chairman-Rapporteur: Rita E. Hauser him, for the first time your real self 1 cisive. versity of Notre Dame "Human Rights and the Foreign Assistance Act,'' b~ Pmf>r~•es." The similarity in the happy "The Meaning of Human Rights,'' by Julian R. Charles Runyon lll, U.S. Department of State 
ending in both fairy tales and Friedman, Syracuse University "Security and Human Rights as Determinants of Christianity and finally the very "Minority Rights and Self-Determination of Foreign Policy," by Tom J. Farer, Rutgers University special kind of joy found in both. Peoples,'' by Ben Whittaker, Minority Rights Group "An American Policy of Humanitarian Intervention 
Bird is an author as well as (London) and Intercession,'' by Richard B. Lillich, University of professor, and his works include "Individual and Group Rights,'' by Vernon Van Virginia Cultwe In Conflict, Syllogistic and Dyke, University of Iowa Its Extensions and The Idea of 8:30p.m. Session VI Justice. A philosophy graduate 2 p.m.· 5 p.m. Session m Presiding: Fr. Theodore Hesburgh, University from the University of Chicago, Human Rights: Conflicting Ideologies president Bird completed his doctorate at the Chairman-Rapporteur: Rev. Joseph Gremillion, "The Helsinki Agreement and Human Rights,'' by Medieval Institute at the University University of Notre Dame A. H. Robertson of Toronto. Dedicating most of his "A First World View,'' by Rita E. Hauser, former research to the theory and history U.S. delegate to the United Nations Commission on Saturday ofthe Liberal Arts and Humabities, Human Rights 9 a.m. -12 p.m. Session VB Bird became the first Director of . "A Second World View,'' by Peter Reddaway, American Foreign PoUcy ud Human Rights: General Program at Notre Dame in London School for Economics and Political Science Institutional Imperatives 1950. "A Third World View," by E. J. M. Zvobgo, Lewis Chairman-Rapporteur: John Brademas, Majority 
Kilby is a professor emeritus of University School of Law Whip, U.S. House of Representatives English from Wheaton College. He "Human Rights Decision-Making in the Executive acts as ctitator to the Marion E. Friday Branch: Some Proposals for a Coordinated Strategy,'' Wade Collection of Wheaton which 9 a.m. • 12 p.m. Session IV by Roberta Cohen and Jerome J. Shestack, lnterna­houses the works ofTolkien, Lewis, International Organization and Human Rights: New tiona! League for Human Rig~ts Charles Williams and others. In Legal Institutions "Congress' Role in the Making of International 
CLYDE KILBY addition, he lectures widely on both Chairman-Rapporteur: Stephen D. Kertesz, Univer-Human Rights Policy,'' by Donald Fraser, U.S. House Tolkien and Lewis. sity of Notre Dame of Representatives 
[Photo by Jim Hofman] 
.

"••'.d"...w·..,,., ... •·.-M-•·•~..•·• •• •••·.....•-~~• •• • ~.... ,... a • •• ~ ......-:z-• ..,,-., ..... .............,..,..._'? .. 




.n.A. -., nl<r..' 

!_b ~__9_Q~ e ~Y_E!-'--r____W_e_d_n_e_sd_a.-.:.y.:..,_A....:.p_ri_l_2_7,'-1_9_7_7 


Thousands flee Northern Ireland 
BELFAST, Northern Ireland [AP) -People are leaving Northern Ireland by the thousands in a growing exodus from the strife-torn province. It is one of the biggest population shifts in Western Europe since World War II. 
British officials estimate 16,000 pulled out last year, nearly double the number who left in 1974 and 1,000 more than in 1975. They believe that as many again will follow this year, frightened away or disillusioned by the failure of British governments and feuding politici'Uls to end the bloodshed that has taken 1,750 lives since 1969. 
The conflict, deeply rooted in Irish history, pits the mainly Ro­man Catholic Irish Republican Army (IRA) against Protestant extremists and the British army. 
The IRA wants to end British rule and unite the Protestant­dominated province with the Irish Republic to the south, which is overwhelmingly Catl1blic. The Pro­testants want to remain under the British crown. 
Among those leaving is Jackie Maguire who buried three of his children last fall after they were killed by a runaway terrorist car. His wife, Anne, was badly injured and spent weeks in the hospital. 
Now Maguire, a 33-year-old auto mechianic, plans to emigrate to Auckland, New Zealand, in June with his wife and only surviving child, 6-year-old Mark, to join a brother living there for three years. 
"There's nothing left us here but sad and bitter memories," he said. "We're selling up everything. We want a new life. We owe it to Mark. 
He's all we have left." 
The death of the Maguire 

Congress breaks stalemate, conferees approve jobs bill 
WASHINGTON [AP) -Senate and House conferees yesterday broke a seven-week stalemate that had held up President Carter's plan to stimulate the economy with public works jobs. 
The jobs bill, a major part of Carter's economic package, would governments tmmedtately for con­struction of hospitals, schools, parks, sewers, bridges and other public works projects. 
B~fore approving the bill, con­ferees eliminated a $7.25-billion, water-pollution section that had stalled action and decided to con­

Discussing plans for the Blue-Gold game with two local brother and sister ticket Chairmen whos< brothers are N.D. students, are from left to right, Larry DiNardo, former Notre Dame All-American; Anthony and Rosanne Sergio, Marian High School Ticket Chairman; and hrry and Sioban Coleman, St. joseph High School Ticket Chairmen. The game will be played at 2:00p.m. at the Notre Dame stadium on Saturday A ril 30. 
. CIDCAGO [AP] • For most Americans, electrtic cars for every­day use are a thing of the future. But for Dan Shafarman, owning one is a "never-ending adventure.'' 
"The feeling you get whenyou step into one of these babies is unbelieveable," Shafarman said pointing to an original electric car, the Kelmark GT, on display at the International Electric Vehicle Exp­position which opened today at McCormick Place. 
"You get the feeling that every­one is looing at you when you drive it and it's just great," Shafarman added. 
The Kelmark GT is powered by 12 golf cart-type batteries, as are most electric cars, and is capable of reaching a top speed of 75 m.p.h. An overnight charge on the bat­teries usually provides a 65-mile traveling range for the vehicle, say 
its developers, Electric Engi­neering Co. of East Lansing, Mich. 
•' Right now, most people wouldn't be able to handle electric 
cars," said Shafarman. "The cars alter your lifestyle drastically, but once you make the adjustment 
I ..

everything is beautifu. Shafarman, 32, a representative for Electric Engineering, recently
· · 

converted his small foretgn car mto an electronic component vehicle by 
r d b 

using a special kit manu.acture y the company. The kit is the same one used to build the car on display. The total cost was about $2,500• he sal'd. 
"The kit runs about $1,500 and once installed and if properly m~intained can last a lifetime,:· satd Jeff Duboff, another Electric 
The jobs bill is mtended to create about 160,000 jobs, both to boost the economy and to ease unemploy­ment. The unemployment rate has dropped from 7.8 percent in Dec­ember to about 7.3 percent last month but is considered by admin­istration economists to be too high. 
Last year the govyrnment spent $2 billion as part of the first national effort to reduce unemploy­ment through public works since the Depression. Carter had wanted to spend $2 billion in eal:h of the next two years, but the House and Senate voted to make all the money available this year. 
Carter told conferees in a phone call he was "highly pleased" and hopes the Senate and House will take final action soon. 
None of Carter's economic pro­posals has cleared Congress yet,but the jobs bill is the closest to passage. 
The Senate ts still considering his tax bill, and may vote Wednesday on a plan to replace his discarded .$50 tax rebate plan with a Republi­can sponsored permanent tax cut for individuals. Carter opposes the 
permanent tax cut. 
Both houses are also considering Carter's proposal to increase the number of public service jobs, providing services not available in local governments. 

Owner likes using electric car 
batteries are an added expense of about $1,000, but when you ·consi­der the advantages of the electric car, it's more than worth it." 
These, Shafarman said, are that the car is pollution-free, costs only about one center per mile for power and requires no tune-ups, oil changes or antifreeze. 
He admits, however, that there are several disadvantages which make owning such a car impractical for most drivers. 
''The kit, although a very good one, is not infallible," said Shafarman. "It's basically for those who know how to deal with different things that might go wrong. 
"I'm a big advocate of knowing everything about the car you're driving," he added. "I think it's a shame that wheri soemthing goes wrong, most persons have to go to a service station to get it fixed.'' 
The car is also not useful for making trips of more than 65 or 70 miles, Shafarman said. 
"It's great if most of the driving you do is within 20 or 25 miles of your home," said Shafarman. "A lot of families would probably like it as a second car for errands and going to the supermarket and those types of things." 
''After a while, you get in a habit of planning where you're going before you leave home and you avoid problems such as running out of power in the middle of no­where," Shafarman said. 
Fixed Easter date shelved 
VATICAN CITY [API. The Roman Catholic church has shelved for now a plan to fix a common date 
f E b

for the observance o aster y
Christians around the world, the Vatican disclosed yesterday. It cited "serious pastoral difficul­
· 

ties" in approving the proposal in 
certain Eastern Orthodox local 
churches, many of which are in Communist-ruled countries, in-eluding the Soviet Union. 
Controversy about the calendar and gospel dates have prevented the celebration on the same date since the early years of Christian­itv. 
By coincidence, both Eastern this year. The Vatican, along with other Western churches. had hop­ed that from 1977 on Easter would 

always be celebrated on the Sunday following the second Saturday in April. 
In proposing the change of dates, the Vatican had sounded out Cath­
olic bishops, the World Council of Churches, Eastern Orthodox and other churches. 
The proposal to set the date as the Sunday following the second Saturday in April is based on the feeling of many experts that Pass­over in the year 30, when Christ is b 1. d to h been eruct 'fited, fe11
e teve ave on a day corresponding to Satur­day~ AprilS. According to this, the 
and ~estern churc~es ~nclu~jng:_.,;esurrection occurred on April 9, Cathohcs and Protestants, marked · the Sunday after the second Satur.. 
children-Joanne, 8, John 21;(and 6-week-old baby Andrew -gave birth to Peace People, a peace movement founded by Mrs. Maguire's sister, Mairead Corrigan, and Belfast housewife Betty Williams. 
But the movement has not 
stopped the violence, and Jackie 
Maguire hasn't got the fight in him 
anymore to wait for it to end. 
British officials estimate that at 
least 70,000 persons, one in 20 of 
Northern Ireland's population, 
have left since 1962. 
"People here have forgotten what real, normal life is like," said Gordon Smyth, vice president of the Belfast Chamber of Commerce. 
"They're deciding all the time that they cannot remain here any longer. More and more people will be forced to leave. I don't care who you are, you'd be mad to go on living in these conditions." 
Dr. John Simpson, senior lec­turer in economics at Belfast's Queen's University, termed the exodus "a human tragedy." 
The Office of Population Cen­suses and Surveys said that some 16,000 people have emigrated to Canada, Australia and New Zea­land in the last eight years. 
Most of the other refugees simply moved across the boarder to the Irish Republic or "across the water" to the British mainland. 

LLJ NO
I Fiddler on the Roof 
1­
The loving theatrical hymn to the Jewish people based the Sholem Aleichem stories 

SMC 
Apr. 29, 30 May 5, 6, 7


THEATRE 
8:00pm Aud. 

284-4176 


$2.50 ($2 std./fac.) 

FRESHMEN: Anyone interested in the 1977-78 Sophomore Advisory Council: 
(1) 
WRITE A ONE PAGE STATEMENT OF YOUR GOALS AND IDEAS FOR THE IMPROVEMENT OF THE CLASS; 

(2) 
SUBMIT IT, WITH YOUR NAME, TO STUDENT ACTIVITIES (1st FLOOR LA­FORTUNE) AS SOON AS POSSIBLE 



DEADLINE: Friday, April 29th Questions? Call Andy Herring 8976 







FlyMarine. 

We're looking for a few good men. The Officer Selection Team is on Campus today in the LaFortune Student Center 
~ 

"';..., . ~~ ') · .·: !:'HlJ ib I!t.;J.o:.v-t 
F.ngi~~setttati~.•..,ii'Afe·-&~mt ttte·mne'dlfte';•JJ!t:pttt"l1}f•"""''la~~ ......-..~··· ....... " ..., • ..,...... .,,...._., •....."... ·' ~iiliiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii~iiii;i;=:.iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiliiiiliiiii~ 
.......... 

Hall directors are evaluated 
by MarlneD Rauen This week, hall director evaiuations are being com­pleted at St. Mary's to ascer­tain whether the directors are aptly fulfilling their responsi­bilities. The questionnaires were given to R.A.'s, Hall Council members, Hall Reps, hall clerks, night monitors, and students not participating in the college government.­According to Kathleen Rice, dean of Student Affairs, "It is important to consider opinions of the people in direct contact with the person under evalua­tion.'' The questions were de­signed to require an explana­tion if the hall director was given a poor rating. "The justification would enable me to formulate a possiblt! solu­tion to the problem," Rice stated If the director has a weak spot, a concrete example would facilitate the strength­ening of the area, she added. Evaluators were also asked to cite improvements that they felt create a better director. Diane Benjamin, McCand­less Hall Director, "welcomed the opportunity for evalua­tion," Rice reported. The Hall .._Directors are willing to im­
prove hall life while keeping within the college rules," she continued. 
The residence directors have never been subject to formal evaluation as far as Rice knows. ''This obviously should have been done," Rice commented. All who work with the directors can offer con­structive criticism due to the insight they have gained through close contact with them, she explained. 
Rice is also concerned with the average student's apprai­sal. "Next year a more random sample will produce more accurate results, but time did not allow for an extensive sampling method this year," Rice stated. 
According to Rice, "The evaluations are accountability measures." In subsequent years, they will be incorpo­rated on a permanent basis. ''An evaluation half-way through the year might be a good idea because the hall directors would have the fol­lowing semester to act on the advice suggested. Although the idea was thought of late in the game, it was still able to be implemented this year," Rice concluded . 

North Sea oil well still not capped 
STAVANGER, Norway [AP]--A 
choking concentration of gas yes­
terday forced an American-led 
team to suspend efforts to cap a 
blown-out well that has sent mil­
lions of gallons of oil gushing into 
the North Sea in the past four days. 
The six-man team, led by two blow-out specialists from Texas, were evacuated from an offshore oil platform in Norway's Ekofisk field after a calm developed, mean­ing the winds were no longer dispersing the volatile gas escap­ing from the 10,000-foot-deep well. 
Weather forecasts indicated it might be possible to resume efforts to cap the runaway well at day­break today. 
A reddish scar of crude petrole­um fed by oil sluicing out of the well at about 44,000 gallons an hour continued spreading from the rig into the sea. Impaired visibility made precise measurements im­possible, but the slick split into two sectors, covering an estimated 80,000 acres. 
Although environmental special­ists had sounded warnings about the possible catastrophic effects of the spill to marine life in one of the world's main fishing zones, there were no reports of dead fish or seabirds. 
A spokesman for the Oklahoma­based PhiiHps Petroleum Co.. oper­ator of the Bravo 14 well that burst open during maintenance opera­tions Friday, said the blow out team of Boots Hansen and Richard Hattenberg worked eight hours on the rig before retreating to a maintenanc~ barge called the Choctaw. 
Hansen radioed that the winds that forced a halt to operations on Monday died away to a point yesterday afternoon where the hydrocarbon gases escaping with the yellowish oil were no longer being dispersed. 
"You can drown in the gas," said the Phillips spokesman in Stavanger, about 170 miles east of Ekofisk Bravo. "It's not toxic but there's no oxygen left and you can't breathe. Of course, it's immensely volatile.'' 
Associated Press photographer Ole Christiansen, who flew over Ekofisk field, said the oil was spewing skyward in a yellow P.lume, then turning a rusty red as 't h't th H "d h' 'I
1 1 e sea. e sat ts pt ot carefully kept the plane above 5,000 ~eet to avot'd any chance of tou ht'n'' off 1 · 
c g an exp oston.. 
The ~ger of an exploston at the 
•r --••• -. • • ._ ---._ ­

• •.1'~.1' .. ,, .~ · ,-.-I *'t'.l'-.1'...•.-· · 'r ,-·J..~~~""·' ....6,'./.'J"-'..1'-~..·.,·IIl•.r.•....•..•~• ..•..•-•.•.•• 
rig was increased to the point that Oyvind Hollekind, captain of a Norwegian fire-fighting boat, said he was doubling the amount of water being sprayed over the rig in an effort to cool it down. 
Red Adair, the Texas oil fire and blow-out expert whose firm is in charge of the capping attempts, has warned of a possible chain reaction effect to other North Sea wells if one of the wells ever catches fire. 
The damage control team, using brass wrenches that do not cause sparks and power tools driven by compressed air rather that electri­city, inserted a valve into a tube that will eventually accomodate the mud to be pumped into the well after it is closed. 
The Phillips spokesman refused to set a timetable for the capping operation. 
There is some dispute about the amount of oil pouring into the sea. Norwegian officials revised down­ward their original estimate of 4,000 tons a day, or about 1.176 million gallons, and some esti­mates said the spillage may be as low as 588,000 gallons. 
The spillage had run to four full 

days by last night. 
BYOB dance 

Marriage Encounter of Michiana will hold its fifth annual dance, "Spring Frolic," this Saturday at Christ the King Church basement in South Bend. All couples who have made a Marriage Encounter and their friends are welcome. 
This is a BYOB dance with snacks and set-ups provided, and many door prizes will be given away. Tickets, available at the door, are $7.00 per couple. Music will be provided by the Jim Deka Trio. 
Marriage Encounter is a week­end experience designed to allow married couples to examine their lives together through an honest encounter. The emphasis of the Marriage Encounter is on deep communication between husband 
and wife. 
Marriage Encounter is for coup­les who have a good marriage but would like to make it better. Weekends are held at Fatima Retreat House on the Notre Dame 
campus. For additional information about the dance or about Marriage En­counter call Ron # Joanne Star~,
1272..0S6S'.. _.......... • • • • • • • 
Wednesday, April 27, 1977 the observer 

Marketing class enters competition; surveys Hoosier youth for GM 
by Kathleen Connelly 

The Business College of Notre Dame is participating in a market­ing/advertising competition spon­sored by General Motors. 
In this competition, business students from 20 universities have developed research and promotion­al propositions to promote the sale of the Chevrolet Nova to youth of the state in which each university is located. Portfolios will be submit­ted to General Motors this Friday. 
Graduate and undergraduate students at Notre Dame in Profes­sor Drev's marketing and adver­tising classes were divided into groups of four or five to do extensive research and develop ad campaigns for the Nova. They became, in effect, mini ad agencies. 
Beginning in March, about 14 such teams conducted interviews, circulated questionnaires to Indi­ana youth (18-29 yrs.) in major shopping areas and did extensive market and media research. 
One campaign is selected from each University for entry into competition. John Levy, a Notre Dame student on the team whose portfolio will be sent to Detroit, said that according to their re-
Regardless of the amount, ef­forts to clean up the spill bore no proportion to its. size. Six sweeper 
· ships reported removing only 20 tons of oil yesterday before stop­ping because of technical difficul­ties. Chemical dispersants have been ruled out for now because it is feared they could cause worse ecological damage than the oil. Dutch oil experts who surveyed the oil slick said they felt sure that if the leak is capped before week's end, the oil will break down before reaching any coast. The Ekofisk field lies between Norway, Den­mark and Scotland, and the slick has drifted in various directions with changes in the wind. 
search several things characterized Indiana youth. 
"Initially," Levy said, "Indiana youth prefer sporty cars, but as they get older they tend toward buying a car that meets their economic and comfort require­ments." 
"In general, however, the ten­dency is that luxury compacts are becoming more popular," Levy stated. 
Of 238 youths responding to the questionnaire, .110 own more than one car. The reason for this is that many Indiana youths own cars modified for racing activities. 
Although advertising proposals will probably not be put into effect, 
,.. 
the results of research conducted by the students will be used by General Motors' marketing depart­ment. All projects submitted be­come the property of GM. 
The purpose of the project is to expose students to real life market­ing situations, provide experience in team effort problem-solving, and to test their abilities against those of their peers. 
The completed projects will be judged on thoroughness, quality of research and creativity. The uni­versity submitting the winning entry will be awarded $5,000. Prizes of $3,000 and $1,000 for second and third places respec­tively will also be awarded. 


NOTRE DAME APARTMENTS 

Oose to Campus 
BOO Block Notre Dame Avenue 

2 bedrooms-Completely Furnished ~omplete Kitchen and Dining Room 
$300.00 per month Up to 4 students Call: 233-6363 or 234-6647 

STARTING FRIDAY APRH.. 29 
The Friday Afternoon Greyhound To Chicago Will Leave The Circle at 4:45P.M.!! The Bus Will Still Arrive. 
In Chicago at 7P.M. The Return Bus Will Still Leave Chicago at 7:15 P.M. Sunday night, but Will Arrive On Campus at 9:20 P.M. 
The Final Three Buses For The Semester Will Run On The Following Fridays: April 29, May 6 and May 13. Please Try to Call Before Thursday Midnight for reservations. 
Thank You For Your Patronage Throughout The Year. Good Luck On Finals and Have A Super Summer-Tom 
(8338) 

• I . 
Who is Walter Egan? For a few licks, calll-800-323-0654. I 

1_  
1_·  
It  
L  On Col b. R d d 'fturn ·~ ecor S an apes. au  ....,. "'~··=···~'"""'"'•< :~  1 1 1 I I 

••••••••••••••••••••••••,-_.....• ._.,.,..~,..,......,.,..,.. ____~--.-•_...4 ,,·,
' · ' ' · ' ' ' · ­
*The Observer 
EDITORIAL BOARD 

an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's Marti Hogan Editor-in-Chief Martha Fanning Managing Editor Bob Brink Asst. Managing Ed.
The Observer is published by students of the University Kathy Mills Executive Editor
of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. It does not Maureen Flynn Editorial Editornecessarily reflect the policies of either institution. The Barb Breitenstein Exec. News Editornews is reported as accurately and as objectively as Torn Byrne Campus Editorpossible. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of )t:>an Powley St. Mary's Editorthe Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions and letters Katie Kerwin News Editorare the views of their authors. Column space is available Paul Stevenson Sports Editorto all members of the community, and letters are Pat Cole Special Projects Ed.
encouraged to promote the free expression of varying opinions on campus. 
David O'Keefe Features Editor 
BoxQ

Business Manager Sue Quigley 
Notre Dame

Advertising Manager Steve Bonomo Copy Editor Barb langhenry Production Manager Karen Chiames Ind. 46556 Photo Editor Paul Clevenger 
Wednesday, April 27, 1977 






P.O. _Box Q 
Festival where students from the you feel cheated in the University generally have a good time? Don't various countries gather in Wash­
Minority 

ington Hall to share their tradition­money recruiting your blood bro­not spending equal amounts of 
al music. art and dance with the thers as it does with others.
students are 
campus and the communtiy. Demand to see Fr. Hesburgh in 
Some of us now graduating person and request a week in honor 
remember raising $600.00 for the of your blood heritage. Have a 
Notre Dame Hunger Coalition and


'Students' 

many of us have happy memories better yet The national Lampoon, sit-in and contact The Observer, or 
of tutoring students having diffi­Dear Editor: culty in their Spanish classes. 
so as to be sure to receive enough local and national exposure. Perhaps the "True" spirit of 
Congratu1ations are in order to Remember we are the real op­Notre Dame could be better cap­the Black Communitv of the Uni­pressed ones. Don't take this tured if pictures of toilet seats and versity of Notre Dame du Lac. The beer signs gave way to people with
sitting down! 

protest demonstration of April 21 
a purpose. was an important effort to bring to As president, I know that many
Cris de Ia Torre light an obscene issue: that of of our international students feel racism whether it be overt or covert badly about the omission. I do
P.S. If you cannot read this letter that exists and what's more is (or don't want to) demand a hope that next year our internation­practiced institutionally and indivi­al students will be considered truly 
translator! Remember, Equalityduallv at Notre Dame. a part of the Notre Dame communi­
for Everyone!

Th~re is something wrong when ty. We feel that The Dome has a group of people feel discrimina-. failed to recognize an "organiza­ted against when the administra­Just another tion" that is, we hope, an asset to 
tion· s decisions and/or actions are 
the academic and cultural atmo­implemented in the best interests 
sphere at Notre Dame. of the group involved. There is 

organization?
something wrong when an integral Peter E. Conrad group of people are ignored or forgotten in the struggle for all. Letter to the Editor: Black students. Chicano students 

A 'racist' 

or anv other minority students are I address this letter to you as the just that. Studentsi!.! And they president of the International Stu­
• 

must be recognized by the majority dent Organization, a community of 

food rev1ew ... 

as students. If minority students over 400 members of Notre Dame. enjoyed all the benefits equal to We were very disappointed as that of white students. there would students, that we have been elimin­
Dear Editor: 

be no need for protest demonstra­ated from the yearly publication of tions like that of Thursday, April The Dome. Many of us would like 
I agree 100 percent with Mr.

21. 1977. to take back The Dome to bring Yang's response to that ridiculous 
I submit. although all efforts back memories. of our life at Notre "review" of Happy House restau­
were important and appreciated, I Dame. Unfortunately, this will not rant by Tim O'Reiley. I personally personally commend and salute the happen this year. 
would like to further the criticism a 

handful of Individuals who belie­When asked about this omission, little more bluntly: by what skill or ved in themselves and were secure we were told, ''you are just another knowledge can you "review" a enough in their values to support organization on campus." Unfor­
cuisine of a people who 1 ) youthe demonstration from its concep· giveable ignorance--particularly in obviously have a racist superioritytlon. to its execution. Had it not today's world and at a university 
attitude about and 2) know nothing

been for their undying determina­(like Notre Dame!!). If we are, about? 
tion and resistance to opposition. again, unfortunately considered by In the first place, Happy House 
such a positive result would not some to be ''just another organiza­is run by a Korean family and have been achieved. tion,'' we might say that we are the serves Korean, Chinese and In my opinion. the demonstration largest organization on campus and 
Japanese food, so your "funny" was a success. but it's not over yet. that many American students and 

(nobody laughed) sidelights of The demonstration was but one faculty participate in our activities. Chairman Mao and life in China are small step of reaching the goal of However when we came we never 
even more out of olace. 

what should alreadv exist for all felt of ourselves this way. 
Second, even 1, who have lived in members of this ·community. Notre Dame has an international 
the Orient for several years and Equality. It must be kept in mind atmosphere with students from 

grew with Asian food in the 

that manY such battles, as the Israel, Egypt, France, Belgium, Islands, do not feel qualified to demonstration, must be fought Costa Rica, Colombia, Brazil, Mex­write a review of the magnigtudebefore we can win the war against ico, Canada, Taiwan, Japan, Samo­
that you did. (I betcha even used a racism. covert and overt. a, Guam, Philippines, India, Spain, 
knife and form instead of chop­etc. (62 countries in all). 
sticks, huh, pro?) Andrea R. Ransom Academically, many students are I think an apology from you for encouraged to take courses abroad 
insulting our Asian friends both in Mexico, France, Austria, Rome, 
here and in general, is in order...

Equality for Japan and Ireland. For cultural and next time, Tim, just stick to and educational purposes, some reviewing McDonalds and Burgerstudents are encouraged to work in 
King ... 

everyone Panama, Peru, Chile, and similar economically-stricken areas in the 
Gary Makowski United States itself. 
Dear Editor: 

This past yeat alone our Internat­:mal Student Organization with the 
... it's down­
Minorities of this campus unite! 

upport of a concerned office had
Chinese, Poles, Hungarians, 
:et-togethers in the International
Arabs, Serbs, Russians, -Mexicans 

right stupid 

.ounge with people from Panama,
and whatever other nationalisty 
Mexico, France, Belgium, China,
that comprises less than 2.5 per­Dear Editor: · , -· 
India, Samoa, Puerto Rico, New
cent of the campus population, 
Zealand, Australia, etc. We have
demand our equal rights. D~'t The recent letters criticizing Mr.
shared cultural values, desires and
you feel deprived in not having O'Reiley for last week's Magnift·
insights. We have shown ftlms of
your own cultural room where you cent Meals In Mlchiana are really 
our respective countries. Every
can lounge around and read maga­off target. In fact, they are down· spring we sponsor an lntemation~
zines, talk, rap, chew gum and just right stupid. 
opinion~================== 


The Other Side 

=======craig martell 
I'd like to make a few points in ·have difficulty raising funds to response to Bill Thee's article in 
convert to on-land disposal, it could 

the April20 Observer. (1) I did not save a bit of money by discontinu­
assert, in my letter of April 4, that ing its propoganda campaign in the fibers introduced into Lake The Observer. Telling the truth 
Superior by Reserve-Armco are would also have helped--on May 4,
unquestionably lethal. The 
1976, Reserve was fined 520,000question of their specific effect on for making bad faith misrepresen­

human health remains unsettled. 
tations to the District Court con­

Of course, the dumping would not cerning the feasibility of altern~­
be excusable merely on a showing 
that it did not kill people; if a drunk tives to its Lake Superior disposal. 
driver does 70 in a 30 mph zone, The disagreement between Bill 
the fact that he happens to kill no Thee and me is to some extent 
one does not excuse his reckless­moot; the federal courts have ness. But the exact nature and 
declared that Reserve/Armco's 

effect of the pollution is beside the Lake Superior dumping is illegal,
basic point which I sought to make 
and have ordered that it be 

in mv letter. 
stopped. I would posit, however, My basic assertion was, and is, 

that the dumping was wrong long that an industrial corporation has a 
before it was declared illegal. hell of a lot of nerve dumping a 
Corporations do not conduct their daily 67,000 tons of untreated 
affairs in a moral vacuum; they are refuse into Lake Superior, and then 
capable both of public wrongdoing and of hypocrisy. For a company to taking out newspaper advertise­daily discharge into the publicments (see page 4 for the April 20 Observer) expressing purported waters 67,000 tons of refuse ­possibly harmful to human healthconcern that "rabid enrionmen­

talism" will rob Notre Dame 
and unquestionably harmful to the students of their chances for jobs. 
environment -is a public wrong. Armco has a strong interest in 
For the same company to piously persuading students that environ­
condemn "rabid environmental­mental restrictions on industry are 
ism'' is hypocrisy. I was unaware contrary to the students' besf 
that Notre Dame was formerly an interests. Given the enormity of 
owner of Reserve Mining stock, the company's past environmental 
and I applaud the University's abuses, I'd say that Armco's view 
action in selling the stock, disasso­on environmental regulation is, 
ciating itself from Reserve and putting it lightly, tainted. 
Armco. 
One final matter: Bill Thee's(2) Reserve-Armco's highly pub­commentary on Reserve's cum­licized argument during the recent 

mingtonite-grunerite pollution

court battle was that if it were would seem to suggest that it poses made to stop its 67,000 ton-per-day no threat to health whatsoever.
discharge into Lake Superior, it This has not been the finding of the would be economically forced to courts. While neither the Federal 
cease operations, and all of its District Court in Minnesota nor theemployees would lose their jobs. In Eighth Circuit Court of Appealsview of P.L. 92-500, the 1972 could fix a certain degree of danger 
amendments to the Federal Water to health from Reserve's air and 
Pollution Control Act, this was water pollution, studies and expert
tantamount to arguing that the testimony satisfied the courts of the 
company could not remain in real presence of danger: ·'T~ebusiness if it had to obey the law. I record shows that Reserve ts 
would be sympathetic to Reserve's discharging a substance into Lakeemployees if the company were 
Superior waters which under anforced to call it quits. I would have acceptable but unproved medical no sympathy for Reserve-Armco, theory may be considered as car­

because if the company cannot both cinoginic...As we have demon­obey the law and make money, it strated, Reserve's air and watershould not be in business. 
discharges pose a danger to the public health and justify judicialI suspect, however, that the action of a preventive nature." (514recently court-ordered abatement F2d 492 at 529, 535.) 

of Reserve's lake dumping will not 
result in the corporation's "eco­The District Court has also found nomic extinction." The Federal Reserve, Armoc, and Republic District Court for the District of Steel liable for the interim costs of Minnesota concluded in 1974 that filtering· and · furnishing safe 
conversion from lake to on-land drinking water to the communities disposal was both technically and on the North Shore of Lake Super­economically feasible for Reserve. ior, and has imposed state permit It also found that, based upon cost violation penalties on the compa­data from a similar taconite mining nies of $2500 per day for 335 days. operation employing on-land dis­Apparently, one needn't be a posal, Reserve-Armco had saved "rabid environmentalist" to disap­approximately $38 million between prove of Reserve and Armco's 1956 and 1974 by disposing of its environmental practices. taconite tailings directly into Lak'! Superior rather than on land. We The author Is a Minnesotan, a shall see whether Reserve-Armco third-year law student and a past was bluffing about going broke if participant in the environmental forced to end its Lake Superior law program conducted by Notre dumping. In the meantime, I Dame's law schoel and graduate would suggest that if Armco will school of civil engineering. 
O'Reiley has reviewed the res­taurants of several ethnic cultures and has found the food served to be pretty good in some, and to be pretty rotten in others. His findings on Happy House stem from his review of the food, not from hidden preJudices. Just because the food and service were not quite up to par does not mean that he is putting down the dietary conceptions of people who constitute 20 percent of the human population--it just means he didn't like the food. 
I have gotten sick on hamburgers before, but that doesn't mean I am putting down the dietary concep­tions of people who constitute 5 percent of the human population. It just means that the hamburgers were rotten. 
O'Reiley knows how to eat, and he likes good food. Magnificent Meals In Michlana is written from this angle and from the belief that having some humorous insights will put some laughs in a student's day. But how Mr. Yang has taken a restaurant review column and associated it with "the socio­economic fight of the Chinese" is beyond my comprehension. 
In fact, it's just plain stupid. 
DrewBaner 
*Observer 


Editorials 
,:r..._ 

ISIS Art 



Father And Son 
by Joan Lurtmer 

"A Serious Approach to Playful Art or a Playful Approach to Serious Art" is an art show that appeals to artists of either persuasion. Art Professor Don Yogi and his five year old son, Jim, are showing their paintings, lithographs, and sculpture in an Isis Gallery extravaganza. 
Extravaganza describes the playful side of the show. Don and Jimmy will paint on anything, and they do. Professor Yogi paints on notebook paper, photo album covers, and scraps of fabric. Jimmy seems to have inherited his father's effusiveness. He paints on ceiling tile, brown cardboard, odd lumber and an easel stand. On the subject of the easel stand I must commend Jim on his choice of the "found object" and his color decisions. The orange and pink paint job is a fine addition. Five year old Jim has made a precocious beginning in art. If Duchamp were alive and painting today, he'd certainly applaud Jim's sculp­ture. Duchamp's own bicycle wheel construction is easily rivaled by Jim's easel base. 
Paintings by both Yogi's could be described in Jim's words. With his five year old savant he declared they were "designed." And simple straightforward designs at that. Jim doesn't bother with underpainting, he just dabs in the poster paint and fills out a few ballpoint pen lines. But such freedom doesn't rule out repre­sentational work. I recognized a man and a turtle. 
Continuing the nature themes Don tacked a few squirrel skins to his paintings. One work featured a full squirrel pelt mounted in a frame. It didn't seem incredibly artistic, but then there is no 
accounting for taste. Taste isn't a 
prerequisite for most of this show. Anyone 
can appreciate a cockroach glued on 
cardboard and priced two dollars. 
Amid the jokes and whimsey there are some fine works. Don Yogi exhibits some of his recent paintings. Much of his work is done on fabric. One large wall hanging features subtle browns and tans on pink acetate. The painting style of this hanging and much of the work seems reminiscent of landscape shapes. To me it seems his work is comprised of stylized clouds and rock outcrops. They are colored in nuance tones. This delicate technique is also effectivein Don's wood constructions. They resemble children's wooden puzzles. But each large, simple piece is spray painted differently and they fit together to make a picture that is a progression of tone and 
tint. 

Painting technique also characterizes the 
sculpture shown. For the past two years 
Don Yogi has been experimenting in 
painted figurative sculpture in ceramic 
clay. Yogi shows one superb portrait bust 
of his son and fellow artist, Jimmy. But 
most of the figures are feminine and 
smaller than six inches. These ceramic 
women pose as sunbathers and mothers. 
Some are highfire-glazed, others are 
bisqued clay painted with acrylics. They 
represent Don' s growing interest in this 
area of sculpture. In fact this show marks 
the first time he has really gathered and 
shown his work. It is a new dimension. 
The show doesn't lack dimension. Besides 
being artistically effusive it has a story 
behind it. Primarily it underscores how art 
should be uninhibited. Teaching assistant 

Untitled 

by Jimmy Vogl 


Tim Taylor invited five year old Jimmy sociable openings. So they combined to Yogi to give his Studio Art class a lesson in bring effusiveness that thrilled Studio Art free artistic expression. It seems Jimmy students to the rest of Notre Dame. From showed everyone that how you hold the 11 a.m. until 5 p.m. and until Friday, the brush isn't important. This success Isis Student Gallery (located in the old prompted Tim Taylor, also the director of fieldhouse) will display the art of Don Yogi Isis Student Gallery, to ask the Yogi's for a and his son Jim. show of their recent work. To summarize the whole show I'll rely on 
Jim was undoubtedly eager to make a Don Yogi's words. "I'm just beingcreativelittle cash from his art work. It could inventive, imaginative. Most people don't support Jim's potato chip habit. But his even know what imagination is." But youfather thinks he'll spend it on some decent can't miss imagination at this show. Who water colors. Don Yogi looks on shows · else would charge two dollars for a rather benignly and I think he enjoys cockroach. 
*Observer 
Features 
Fictioneering 
Information, Please 
What could be more intimidating than week. Anyway, I stole it before it was even intimidated. Finally, someone challenged walking into a dingy college dormitory out of the box. So, maybe Britannica had to me on the subject of the capital of Alberta. room to find a $600 Encyclopedia Britan­replace it, and they are undoubtedly a He told me to look it up in my nica glaring down at you from a shelf? And multi-national information cartel which encyclopedia, and, put to the test, I did. I glare is exactly what it did. From its rich pays slave-wages to minorities. So how took out the first volume, opened it to 
embossed cover came a piercing malevo­could I feel guilty about that? I didn't. "Alberta", and checked in the summary lent stare, like that of a predatory bird. It Needless to say, the set was so for the capital. There, printed in blurred was like a statistical falcon, ready to swoop intimidating I never had any occasion to letters, was the following: "Gee, I don't down and devour the uninformed. The final use it, or even touch it. I fact, as far as I know; it's been so long I really can't authority. knew the pages were all blank. I'd never remember. Maybe it's Montreal, or 
Having that encyclopedia on my side was looked inside. I didn't even want to touch maybe ... " I panicked. Whirling around to like walking around with a Doberman. the thing. I was afraid I would smudge it or face my adversary, I snapped "Edmonton, Nobody wanted to argue with me. When­tear a page. It was like an expensive ,ust like I said, you idiot," and slammed 
ever someone was getting ready to oriental rug you put in the middle of a room the book with authority. The bluff worked. contradict an assertion I had made he and spend the rest of your life tip-toeing But, next time? What would I do if would look at the Britannica and get an around. someone asked to see it in print? I'd be uneasy expression on his face, like he had But, unfortunately, that's not what it laughed out of school! 
just seen a photograph of his own was made for. Soon, the shelf which it had unnaturally gory demise. That in itself originally packed to the overflowing point My confidence was gone. I ceased made it a worthwhile theft. was far too big for it. Wasting away from asserting myself, terrified that I would be 
disuse, it eventually shrank from thirty asked to substantiate a claim. Meanwhile, I suppose I should have felt guilty for volumes to twenty. It still covered every my formerly proud pet withered away on stealing it from the library, but as hard as I letter of the alphabet, but some of the the shelf, dwindling to five volumes. I tried I just couldn't. When I thought of the smaller volumes had combined. Instead of picked one of them up one day to see how intense personal satisfaction I got from an "E" and an "F", 1 now had an "E-F". desperate the situation was. It was full of owning it and the insignificant drop in the My 1977 Britannica was rapidly becoming "I don't know, I forgot, search me, how library's $15,000,000 annual budget the no more inspiring than a 1937 Children's should I know? etcetera. Not a single bit of theft presented, I felt justified. Besides, Book of Knowledge. solid information to make a comeback on. they cheated me on my paycheck every , Of course, people were no longer 1 Just as I had feared: terminal neglect. If I 
by Chris Doherty 
had taken it back to the library when it was still twenty volumes they might have been able to nurse it back to health, but now it was obviously too late. It went straight from five to one pitiful volume, dwarfed by my roommate's Organic Chemistry. After that, it shrank drastically. Friday, no bigger than a cookbook. Saturday, Huck Finn. Sunday, my address book. Monday, it was smaller than Repent or Wither on the Vine, a pamphlet I'd been given the day before. Tuesday, it was gone. 
I'd stolen dozens of other books from the library before, but this had never hap­pened. I suppose poetry, short stories, drama and essays can bide their time. 

....
Encyclopedias have to be busy. They are the last bearers of the literary work-ethic. An encyclopedia is like an elephant. It would be nice to have such a big pet, but the whole community has to chip in and maintain it in a zoo, or it wastes away. Sure, a rich guy can buy an encyclopedia, just like he can keep an elephant for a pet. But it's not where it belongs then. In any event, I think I'll stick to The Complete Works of William Shakespeare in the· future, and leave the care and feeding of these behemoths to trained professionals. 


~-----­
[ i 
I 

' 
I I f-It finally comes down to commitment. 
r ' When you don't like a course, it's hard to excel. The class gets tedious. The texts get boring. The lectures get dreadful. Your \Vork suffers. And so do your grades. Compare that with the courses you really believe in. You care more. You try more. And without even noticing, you just naturally do better. It's true in schooL It's true outside of school. For example, \Ve believe there's just one way to brew Busch beer. Th~ natural way. With natural ingredients. Natural carbonation. Natural ageing. We believe that's the best way to brew a beer. And when you believe in what y< )Ltre doing, you just naturally do it better. Taste a Busch and we think you '11 agree. 
BUSCH. 
Whenyou believe in what you're doing, you just naturally do it better. 
Anheuser-Busch. Inc.. 51 loutS, Mo. 

. . . .,..
t:: • ~... • • • ~ • t i ~~ .... fj ••~ '"',. ~ )~ ..

• ·.... ·.4-•.J,.,,,_,•._.II',.'•J ..... -~.f ... , .. •.i& ., •'"·'• , ... , .... , ..... j \ 
' , .... ~-.... ~..,......... _.. •"''II' ... ~...-.... ••• o.a.ra.c••••*•_._. ••••• ... •••!••••••••.. ••••••• -~••••-"t·al ........., .....( ,J:•:t< -~/ ~,~r. :t~-~ _,, •.• ·•·... '·_:..'"~~ ~JJ_ 1:.: .._. •• ~r<,..,r:· ..{~J., \.~' ·~ 
I 
L 

Wednesday, April 27, 1977 the observer 
Grade schoolers give up television 
NEW YORK [AP ]· Jeff Tewlow wrestled with his brother for half an hour. Vickie Gifford flew a kite. and Susie Kaplan read one long book after another. 
After a week of voluntary depri­vation, these grade schoolers and their parents discovered that life without television is not really as bad as some of them had feared. 
They assembled at Public School 166 .on Manhattan's upper West Side to mark their triumph over the tube, 11chieved during an experi­ment to see how television affected them. 
While they celebrated an absence of television, their gathering was recorded by cameras from local television stations. 
"It was like taking an intruder out of our home," Janet Mervish, 
Elderly problems examined 
[continued (fom paae 11 homes, and even the best of these creates an atmosphere of depend­ency among its patients. Even the relatively minor impairments of weakened vision or hearing, fee­bleness and arthritis can be frus­trating to those accustomed to an active life. This Joss of physical indepen­dence comes as a hard blow to the elderly. "We live in a culture in which we have been exhorted to be maximally independent," Pruyser pointed out. Economically also, many of the aged encounter difficulties, and further loss of independence may result. Almost 80 percent of Americans 65 are retired and living on reauced incomes. Despite pensions, savings and Social Secur­ity, 4. 75 million of the aged exist on less than $2,000 a year, which i~ well below the federally-establish­ed poverty level. Many elderly, of course, can still afford comfortable retirement in Florida or Arizona, but for others, prolonged illness or rapidly rising inflation have eroded their savings. The resultant poverty can force the elderly into substandard housing and lead to serious malnutrition problems. Physical safety has also become a primary concern of many elderly citizens, who are frequently victi­mized, especially those living in high-crime neighborhoods. Trans­portation is yet another difficulty and a Jack of mobility is one more way in which the aged find their independence slipping away. Health care also poses a pro­blem. Medicare and Medicaid are not designed to provide compre­hensive health care. The percent­age of health care costs of the elderly paid by the federal govern­ment in 1976 was eight percent lower than ten years earlier. In addition, most federal funds for health care of the aged are spend on care of those who are physically 
ill. Psychological, social and health maintenance needs receive Jess emphasis. Only about one percent of the money spend on health care for the aged goes for such preven­tive care. 
Forced retirement at age 65 is also cited by many gerontologists as detrimental psychologically, as well as economically. "Loss of work undermines the functioning of the mind," Pruyser stated. Work­ing is vital to personal integrity, as studies of the unemployed have shown, he maintained. Work "checks the unbridled fantasy and structures the flow of time, he added. 
Mandatory retirement has insti­tutionaized the notion that to be old is to be 'over the hill' and useless. The effects of involuntary idleness can be traumatic. "One day they have life, the next day nothing," anthropologist Margaret Mead said of unwilling retirees. "One reason women live longer than men is that they can continue to do something 
they are used to doing, whereas men are abruptly cut off--whether they are admirals or shopkeepers." 
mother  of  two,  related  at  the  remarkable, exciting and instruc­ 
boisterous gathering.  tive.  
A number of parents noted that  
tube-less times  were  without TV- 
related tension  -without combat  


over which program to watch and without meal schedules geared to the tubes. 
It also made some aware that they watched T. V .simply because it was there. 
Only one parent voiced criticism of the experiment, and her objec­tion stemmed from the mistaken impression that Miss Winn advo­cates abolition of television altogether. 
"I was amazed at how few 
negative comments there were," 
Set up by Marie Winn, author of Miss Winn said after handing out "The Plug-in Drug," the experi­slim children's books and chocolate ment was variously lauded as chip cookies she had , baked as 
Forced retirement is under chal­
lenge by those who dispute the 
claim that it is necessary to 
maintain efficiency. Gerontologists 
argue that there is no evidence that 
an individual's effeciency or creati­
vity declines after age 65. They 
also point out that at least half of 
those now over 65 are physically 
capable of doing a day's work. 
The idea that 65 is the beginning of old age is a "convenient tool" society uses to "get people out of the work force," Monsignor Char­les Fahey, a member of the Federal Council on Aging, told the National Catholic Reporter (April 22, 1977). Because of the uselessness people feel when they retire, and because of society's attitude toward aging, the idea that old age begins at 65 becomes a "self-fulfilling prophe­cy." 
"I have learned that a culture which equates material possessions with success, and views the frantic, compulsive consumer as the per­fect citizen, can afford little space for the aged human being. They are past competing, they are out of the game. We live in a culture which endorses what has been called 'human obsolescence.' Af­ter adolescence, obsolescence·. To the junk heap, the nursing home, the retirement village, the 'Last Resort,' " Curtin said in her book. 
The sharp rise in the proportion of elderly in the population has aggravated many of the problems they are faced with. In 1900, 3.1 million, or one out of every 25 Americans, were over 65. Now 
21.8 million, or one out of every ten falls into this category. Decrease in inf~nt mortality rates and lengthen­ing of the average life expectancy from 4 7 years in 1900 to 71.3 years today are two causes for the rise in the number of elderly. Also, since 1957, the U.S. birth rate has dropped, increasing the ratio of elderly to young people. 
The changing style of American life has also had it's effect on the elderly. In traditional farm life, people remained active longer and were cared for by their families in the event of illness. 
Increasing mobile, industrialized urban life has broken up the closely-knit family group and chan­ged the pattern of life for the aged. Families are less likely to be rooted in one location for many years and young are less likely to continue living with their parents when they reach maturity. Often the older generation remain in the home town when their children and their families relocate. In some cases, this distance can contribute to a felling of isolation from the family and can cause problems if and when the oler person can no longer manage living alone. 
The obsession of today's society with youth and with remaining young has also made the prospect of growing old more distasteful and heightened discrimination against the elderly. The youth cult and America's youth-oriented culture and advertising .reflect an unwil­linglness to accept the idea of aging and ma.\e old age seem like something to be dreaded. 
The traditional parish structure in the Catholic Church encourages the participation of children and the middle-aged, but does less to include elderly members in regular parish functions. Education, one of the principal concerns of the Church on the parish level, has brought children and their parents into contact with the Church, but parishoners are more or Jess phas­ed out in later life. 
Older parishioners are also often alienated by recent changes within the Church. They find familar rites and services altered and their sense ofthe Church's stability and security shaken by post-Vatican Ii innovations 
Despite the myriad of problems facing the aged and their high visibility, Pruyser was quick to point out that there are advantages to aging as well. "There are an amazing numger of aging persons who seem to take their so-called 'losses' very well,'' he commented. 
Service organizations, he noted, see those who need help. Many of the aged are very well and happy, despite the losses they sustain, he maintained, adding that these are not just the well-off or the priviled­ged. Elderly of all economic and social backgrounds must find and reap their satisfactions, he said. 
Pruyser cited deepening human inter-dependencies, the opportun­ity for self-discovery and redefini­tion, the freedom to reveal one's innermost thoughts candidly and the ablity to offer guidance to succeeding generations among the benefits of old age. 
The elderly have the time and the experience to make a valuable contribution to society, if their potential is recognized and allowed to develop, he continued. 
Pruyser also stressed the impor­tance of attitudes toward aging, both on the part of the elderly themselves and on that of the rest of society. Not all the consequen­
ces  of  aging  are  'natural'  and  
inevitable.  
Tomorrow's  article  will  focus on  

some of the services offred by the Church to serve the needs of the elderly. 
rewards at Monday night's gathering. 
One young party-goer named Jonathan, spoke of his mixed reactions: 
"At some times I felt good, and at other times I felt bad. The good times were when I forgot all about television, and the bad times were when I found out there were good things to watch." 
A random look at the diaries the children kept gives evidence of a life enriched by such enterprises as "helping mommy in the kitchen,'' doing homework and having a conversation. 
"I had along talk about school," Susannah Kaplan, who gave her age as 7114, wrote on a diary of one day in the experiment. "Then I drew a big picture. Then I read a long book. I didn't even think about TV." 
One mother, Eileen Joacobson, said the tube-less week brought her and her 7 -year-old daugher toge­ther again for unexpected fun. She listened to the radio and records 
and,  much  to  her  surprise,  was  
"feeling  a  lot  less  bored,''  she  
said,  adding  that  she  and  her  

daughter Rachel have decided to cut way down on television. 
Manymade similar decision, but 8-year-old Elizabeth Morrison pro­bably did not. 
The lure of the tube was so great in the week that ended Sunday, she said, that one night she sat and watched a blank screen: 
"I didn't have anything to do,'' she explained iater. 


TONIGHT!! 
Michelob Night 
35 c Bottle 
7-12 

Free T-shirts, Mirrors , Lighters & more 
The Knights Men's Hairstyling 

Treat yourself the month of April with a styled haircut and blowstyle combination, and receive a free condition! It will give you back that natural sheen that the winter months hove deprived you of. This is a $13.00 value for $8.50. 


Miss Jeanie Miu Connie 

~~~~uttn'~ (a~tlt 
54533 TERRACE LANE 
Tues., Wed., Sat. 8:30. 5:30. Thurs. & Fri. 8:30 • 8:30 
277-1691 


LAW SCHOOL INTERVIEWS 
Counselors are available daily at the 
UNIVERSITY OF SAN FERNANDO VALLEY COLLEGE OF LAW 
to offer guidance and career planning 
The College of Law offers a full-time 3 year day program as well as part-time· day and evening programs. The school is fully accredited by the Committee of Bar Examiners of the State Bar of California. 
Call or write USFV, 8353 Sepulveda Blvd. Sepulveda, California 91343. Tel. 213-894-5711 

10 the observer Wednesday, April27, 1977
--·-· ··-···--· ---·-·--·-·----=-..:..__________;_:_~_ _:__ 
Free University course Descriptions 
[continued from page 1] --110 Principles of Insurance (Thurs., 7 p.m.) helps you buy life and auto insurance and look for fringe benefits. --111 Bachelor Cooking (Sun., 1 p.m.) offers five lessons on basic skills, including how to follow a recipe and make basic meals. ($5 fee, extra money refunded). --112 Current Social Issues (Tue., 7 p.m.) will investigate capital pun­ishment, penal reform, full employ­ment, and other social issues and the organizations and movements involved in social change. --H3 Student Rights and the Politics of Protest (Mon. , 7:30 p.m.) will examine the legal rights of university students and will analyze the Notre Dame and St. Mary's administrative policies. --114 Flying as a Hobby (Wed., 
8:30 p.m.) will introduce flying for personal pleasure, including as­pects of day to day flying, regula­tions, aerobatics, and building your own plane. --115 Intro to Parachuting (Thurs., 8:30p.m.) will teach the language and basic techniques of parachute jumping, from packing a chute to landing on the ground. --116 Environmental Education (Thurs., 7 p.m.) includes lectures, discussions and projects to develop the ability to spark environmental awareness in others. --117 Introduction to Envlronics and 118 Urban and Regional Plan­ning Environics I and D (university scheduled) give the student an opportunity to sit in on a university course in environics. 
Warning label requI· red f:~:~)u~ills~~~~~:r~~~i~iu~~~dt~
gather h1s or her favonte samples 
· 

on aerosol products 
WASHINGTON [AP) -In a step toward an eventual ban of virtually all fluorocarbon aerosol sprays, the Food and Drug administration (FDA) announced yesterday it will require a warning label on food, drug and cosmetic containers that use fluorocarbon propellants. 
At the same time, the Consumer Product Safety Commission pro­posed to require the same label on the products it regulates that contain fluorocarbons, such as certain household cleaners and air fresheners. 
The two agencies are following the lead of the Environmental Protection Agency, whose warning label requirement for pesticide sprays that use fluorocarbons went into effect April 15. 
The FDA's action affects about '35 per cent of the more than one billion fluorocarbon pressurized containers sold each year in the United States. Aerosol products regulated by FDA include deo­dorants, anti-perspirants, hair sprays and fragrances. Over-the­counter drugs used as inhalers by 
Mary Hartman canceled 
LOS ANGELES (AP) -Goodby, waxy yellow buildup. Goodby Fernwood flasher, Tom, Loretta and Charlie. And goodby, goodby 
\_ 
"Mary Hartman, Mary Hartman." 
Television's most outrageous soap opera will be canceled this summer after two years because its creators said they wanted to go out while it was still a hit. 
"Throughout television's history hit shows have been allowed to run to the point where they fizzle out," said creator-producer Norman Lear of Tandem Productions at a news conference yesterday. "We didn't ·want that to be "Mary Hartman, Mary Hartman's fate." 
Star Louise Lasser denied she had quit the show, although she admitted that the schedule of five shows a week was strenuous. 
With Lear at her side, she said, 
"Louise didn't quit." Lear said, "If the press and the 
p_u_blic~ ~sh<:~-t~...~~~~!e that ~,oJ~.~..~­
asthma sufferers, contraceptive vaginal foams and cytology fix­atives used in diagnosing cancer are classified as essential and are not subject to the labeling require­ment or eventual ban. 
The FDA's regulation, first pro­posed last November, becomes final this week and takes effect Oct. 31. 
The labels will say, "Warning: Contains a chlorofluorocarbon that may harm the public health and environment by reducing ozone in , the upper atmosphere." 
Chlorofluorocarbon is the chem­ical name for gases composed of chlorine, fluorine, and carbon, that have come to be known simply as fluorocarbons. It is actually the chlorine, in the form of chloride 
radicals,  that has  been found  to  
deplete  the  earth's  umbrella  of  
ozone in the stratosphere.  

The Consumer Product Safety Commission's proposal to follow the other agencies that regulate aerosol products,. will be open to public comment for 30 days and a final regulation is expected to take effect early next year. 
quit that's beyond our control." 

Industry sources had speculated in recent weeks that Miss Lasser would quit the series because of exhaustion. 
"It's hard work," she said. "It's been a constant sprint. The strain has been great on all of us, but I've never seen people stretch themsel­ves so." 
Lear also denied he was ending the show because of sagging ratings. 
Approximately 70 more episodes of the syndicated series will be aired before it stops production on June 14. Starting July 4 Tandem will offer "Fernwood Tonight," which may do for late-night talk shows what "Mary Hartman" did for soap operas. 
Next fall the company will begin production of "Fernwood U.S.A." a comedy anthology that will continue some of the characters 
--119 Basic Macrame (Mon., 8:30 p.m.) will practice the basic mac­rame knots and assist in choosing and beginning a project. (Small ball of jute cord for practice required). --120 Basic Needlepoint and Bar­guello (Mon., 8:30p.m.) shows one the asic stitches and methods of needlepoint and Barguello. ($5 for materials). --121 Embroidery and Needlecraft (Wed., 7 p.m.) will teach how to design and transfer designs, make a sampler creation and advance to tapestry embroidery. (Canvas and heave muslin, wool and cotton floss and embroidery thread required). 
--122 Leatherwork (Mon., 8:30 p.m.) teaches students how to make various leather goods, includ­ing boots, shoes, and leather garments. (Leather, leather punch, waxen linen, thread, glue, needles, and patterns needed). 
--123 The Peacetime Army (Tue., 8:30p.m.) discusses the army as a vehicle for peacetime social change. 
--124 Orienteering (Mon., 7 p.m.) teaches basic orienteering tech­niques, including map reading and navigation. (Magnetic compass re­quired). 
--125 The Key to Joyful Living (Tue., 8:30 p.m.) explains the secret of joy and how to rejoice in the most sorrowful and hopeless situation. 
--126 Exercises in the Exploration of Student Problems (Mon., 7 p.m.) 
will explore problems students encounter, including study prob­
!ems, dating approaches, interper-· sonal encounters and others. --127 Anxiety Management Train­ing Workshop (Wed., 7 p.m.) provides training in relaxation and anxiety control. --128 Assertiveness Training Work· shop (Thurs., 8:30 p.m.) concen­trates on the knowledge and skills necessary for successful commun­ication in a job interview situation. --130 Student Couple's Workshop [Married or Unmarried] (Wed., 
8:30 p.m.) teaches participants some concepts of improving their interpersonal communication, in­cluding marital fighting and ex­pressions of affection. --131 Life-Planning, Values Clar­ification Workshop (Thurs., 8:30 p.m.) has exercises designed to create new awareness of the in­dividual's unique values and goals, then uses that awareness for productive life tJlanning: 132 Beginning Auto Mechanics (Tue., 8:30 p.m.) will teach the basic engine designs and principle, use of hand tools, and minor repairs. --133 Beginning Weightlifting (Wed., 8:30p.m. consists of three one-hour seminars on weightlifting in the weight room at the A.C.C. --134 Beginning Bridge (undecid­ed) instructs from beginning to intermediate bridge. --135 Irish Dancing (Thurs., 8 p.m.) will teach three basic steps and various group dances. --136 The Art of Songwriting (Mon., 8:30 p.m.) will teach the 
student the art of putting lyrics to music. ··137 The Art of Graffitti as 
to be explored as a means of 
~~;~:xr.:~~si~:· Marxism 
(Thurs., 
8:30 p.m.) will cover the basics of dialectical materialism and some current issues in marxist theory. (Numerous books, to be announced in class, required). --139 "Biblical Prophecy: Implicit Fact or Incoherent Fantasy" (Wed., 8:30 p.m.) will discuss various aspects of Biblical prophecy in relation to today. ("The Late Great Planet Earth" by Hal Lindsy required). --140 Science Fiction: The Extrater­restrial Perspective (Thurs., 7 p.m.) deals with scientific, phil­osophical, theological, and hum­erous essays of science fiction. --1'41 Oral Interpretation (Wed., 7 p.m.) will include presentation of poetry, prose, and theatre, aiming towards a group presentation of a Readers Theatre production. --142 Comic Books (Mon., 7 p.m.) 

and the media. (Your , own comic books needed). --143 The Second Coming of Christ­-Are We Living In the Last Days? (Tue., 8:30p.m.) studies passages in Matthew 24 which gives the signs preceeding Christ's earthly kingdom. (Bible needed). --144 Creation of Evolution--A Study of Origins (Thurs., 8:30 p.m.) studies scientific data sup­porting creation. --145 Polish Language [Basic Con­versation) (Sun., 7 p.m.) in geared to acquaint Polish-Americans with their language. --146 Nutrition (Thurs., 7 p.m.) covers the nutrients needed by the 


F~-;;~w~----1 app~~.J 
I I 
I PRICES: 
IALL CHAIR ITYPE SEATS._----__ 17.50
IBLEACHERS --------15.50 
I Tickets on sale: I NOTRE DAME A. C. C. 1 Mon. • Sal 9 to 5 1 Robertson's 1South Bend & Concord Mall 1 St. Joseph Bank 1 and branches 1 First Bank Main office only 1 Elkhart Truth _
J..__________ 
A TIME TO DECIDE 
These few weeks are when Notre Dame students are making decisions. A few samples: 
What kind of summer job should I look for? What will my major be? Whom wi II I room with next year? What will I do after graduation? 
For those considering the priesthood, the question is : 
Is this the time when I should decide whether I want to be a priest If this is the decision you must make, you can get help by contacting: 
(219)283--6385
Fr. Joseph Carey, C.S.C. Vocations Counselor HOly Cross Fathers St. Joseph Hall, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
body and applies nutrition to diet. 
(Requirements to be determined over summer). --147 The Gay Sub-Culture: One Christian's Perspective (Wed., 7 p.m.) looks at the statistics, psy­chology, theological positions, and problems of the gay community with an emphasis on problems faced by the Christian gay. --148 Yoga as a Spiritual Discipline (Thurs., 7:30 p.m.) involves par­ticipation in the Yoga Asanas, including instructions in med­itation. 
For information on Free Univer­sity courses call Ombudsman (7638) or Student Union (7557). 


YOU ARE CORDlALL Y INVITED 
California Club sponsors truck 
The California Club is renting a U-Haul truck to take anything, regardless of shape or size, to Southern California. 
Pick up dates are Sat. May 14 and Sun. May 15 at the bookstore parking lot. Drop off will be on Sun. May 22 in Los Angeles and Orange counties. 
For reservations and information call Mary Hesburgh (7920). Off campus residents should call John Ballas (288-8271) to arrange a home pick-up. 
Reservations should be made 
before May I. If you are unable to 
pick up your articles in LA, they 
can be stored there for you. 
Young Dem~crats 
elect officers 
The Young Democrats will elect 
officers for the 1977-78 school year 
at the next meeting, Thursday, 
MayS. _ 
Any member wishing to run for 
office should contact Paul Falduto 
at 3527 or 3508 by next 
Wednesday. 
Lowenstein talks on Human Rights 
AI Lowenstein, U.S. representa­
tive to the U.N. Commission on Human Rights, will speak Thurs­day at 8 p.m. in the C.C.E. auditorium. 
NOTICE 

NEED TYPING? Executary, Inc. Professional Typing Service. 10 typists-various typestyles. Term Papers: $.85 page, resumes: $2.00 page. CaliZJZ-0898: · -------­
Water safety instructors current certification Summer Church Camp positions. Equal opportunity em­ployer. Send resume Pat, 333 W. Colfax, South Bend, Ind. 46601. 
Engineering Openings. Major client has needs for all degrees. New graduates or experi­enced. All fee paid positions for immediate response. Send resume or call toll free from South Bend. Karl Swank Management Services, 1554 W. Franklin St., Elkhart, ln. 46514. Ph. 674-5022. 
St. Ed's Hall presents! Sticks and Bones. April 29, 30 and May 1 at 8p.m. in washington _Hall. Tickets are $.50 and available' at the door or from a cast member. 
Typing-neat y and accurately. 233­0166 after 5 or weekends. 
Let John Alden Messages do it! Don't like a bad habit of someone you work with? Want to break off a commitment? Want to phone your family that you're alive and well? Or tell your nother-in-law that you two are going on a vacation alone this year? 
9-1 Mon. thru Sat. 
Proxy phone calls ss.oo 
287-7566 

AI Lowenstein tonight, 8:OOp.m., 
C.C. E. Auditorium. Speaking on Human Rights and fielding quest­ions. 
Cooper's Summer Storage. Pick-up and delivery at dorm. Call Mrs. cooper at 272-3004. 
Niles Auction. 802 Fort St. 684-6954 or 684-4671. Auction every Friday 7:30. We buy and sell furniture, appliances, antiques, and misc. items daily 12-6p.m. 
Accurate, fast typing. Mrs. Donoho 232-0746. Hours--8a.m. to Bp.m. 
AI Lowenstein is coming to campus this Thursday, 8:00 at the C.C.E. Speaking on Human Rights and fielding questions. 
TRY SOMETHING DIFFERENT THIS SUMMER. Summer work management pro­gram, see the selection team at LaFortune Student Center. Today 9a.m.-4p.m. 
GRADUATING THIS SEMESTER? GOT A JOB? Take more into a job interview than just a transcript of grades. Responsibility, experience, pride. Be a proven manager of men, money, and material; be an officer of Marines, LaFortune Student Cen­ter today. 
Wanted: Three or four roommates needed to share a Notre Dame Ave. apartment. Call Drew Bauer at 1715, or 287-3689. 
ENERGY NOW-a high protein food product for those who need more energy-excellent food for atheletes. For information: 233-6581. 
Lowenstein will be speaking in connection with the International Symposium: Human Rights and American Foreign Policy sponsored by the Law School's Center for Civil Rights. 
In addition to speaking on the topic of human rights, the former New York congressman has indi­cated he would be willing to field questions on many topics, includ­ing his personal investigation into the Robert Kennedy assasination. 
Reading 
presentation 

The Jackson MacLow music and reading presentation scheduled for 4:30p.m. today has been changed and will be held in the Crowley Hall of Music recital auditorium. 
Kegger picnic at Bendix Woods 
A Kegger Picnic, sponsored by Lyons Hall and the California Club, will be held this Sunday at complex "K" at Bendix Woods beginning at II a.m. A $2 price includes hot dogs. munchies and beer. All are invited. 
If you can drive, be at the main chcle at II a.m. Cars will leave t!-.en. 
Tickets can be purchased this week in room 303 Lyons or at Bendix on Sunday. For information call Mary (7920) or Janet (7937). 
---~----------­
Logan Volunteers: Spring Dance! W &dnesday, april 27, 7:30-1 o:00 
p.m. in the Logan Cafeteria. ___ .Ever_yQne W ilcomed! L _AnY _q!.les:.. 
ti~n~ ~~~bel 
8696 Jeanne Conboy 4347 (284) 
Greyhound Bus to Chicago. Leaves Main Circle every Friday at 4:45. Call Tom ft 8338 for seat reserva­tions. 
FOR RENT 

3 EXCELLENT HOUSES IN FINE: NEIGHBORHOODS. Each ideal for 4-6 students. Cost adju$ted to number of students. S225-S300 plus utilities. Call Mr. GaHo 234-6688. 
For rent for next September. Furnished four bedroom house couple blocks from Notre Dame. Phone 277-3604. 
Summer rental furnished, four-bed­room house. $100.00 a mon. Phone 277-3604. 
4 bedrooms, furnished apartment within walking distance of campus. Call William Hill, 232-1724. Sum mer occupancy only. 
Two bedroom house to rent. Sum­mer and or school year. 1012 Eddy St. $120 mo. plus utilities. Call Oddies Harris at_232-8563. 
Summer lease from June 1 to August 25. Near N. D.-4 bedroom and 5 bedroom furnished houses. 1 bedroom and 3 bedroom furnished apartments. Call 234-2626. 
Hickory Village. Sublease for Summer. Studio apartment. $1 25 per mon. Call 272-8006. 
5-bedroom house, real nice, large living room and kitchen, fully furn­ished, close to campus, has burglar alarm. Call Charlie Moore 232­7180. 
1 room with kitchen privileges. $50 per month-near bus line. Call 288-9533 after 5p.m. 
ROOMS $40 month 233-1309. RIDES. 
Apartment for Summer rent. 2 bedrooms, utilities paid. $140 month 287-6823. 
Kitchenette frunished apartment (1 person J near campus, utilities furn­ished. Summer only. 272-6174. 
Furnished 3 bedroom house tor Summer includes washer-dryer. $150 per mon. Call Mrs. Cooper 272-3004. 
LOST AND FOUND 

A gold Timex watch lost mear the mud pit Sat. Electric with a brown band. Reward! Please call 3746. 
LOST: Blue dress hat with dk. blue hat band. The type Bogart wore. It's my uncle's hat. It's important I get it back. If you find it or know where it's at, p!ease call 3086. 
·AAUP meets Monday 
The Notre Dame AAUP Chapte will meet next Monday to conside the collective bargaining situation The Chapter now has 36 percen designation card support. 
Anyone wishing t<> express hi opinion as to what the Chapte should do concerning collectiv bargaining may send a note t James E. Robinson, Chapter Presi­dent, 356 O'Shaughnessy Hall. 

Anyone wishing to sign a desig­

nation card who has not yet done so 
should also send a note to 
Robinson. 
Preregistration today in Stepan 
Sophomores and juniors who did not preregister yesterday may do so today with freshmen in Stepan Center until 4:30p.m. 
J-Board positions open 
Applications are now being ac­cepted for positions on the Univer­sity Judicial Board, the Appeals Board, and the Board ofTraffic and Parking Appeals for the 1977-78 academic year. 
Positions are open to all student from any major. Application forms are available in the student govern­ment offices. All applications must be turned in by 5 p.m. Wed. May 4. 
Classified Ads 
FOUND: a Cross Pen-if yours call 
283-351 oto identify. 
_. __1,.0SI: _6.f1.!9.e Silt ...,!tl'!. w_!l]te pj!Y,fS ______ 
~~~~k~~.:_:_a~:?~~~~­
LOST: gold digital men's watch over at b-ball courts nest to Stepan. Reward for return to Bob at phone 1779. 
FOUND: watch between Grace and Library on MOn. Apr. 18. Call John at 6775. 
LOST: 1 pair of Bauer ice-skates. In room 419 of the Ad Bldg. Call Tom at 8348. Reward! 
LOST: cowboy hat at Law Talent Show, in Law Bldg. Sat. Info. Call Michele 4-4692. 
A gold charm bracelet with 7 gold hearts engraced with my children's names and birth dates, and one gold heart with a diamond set in it and an engraving on the back in my husband's own hand writing. If found, or have any information concerning it, please call collect 
(914) 834-7675. A liberal reward offered. Ouida N. Bundschuh. 
LOST: red binder full of Botany handouts. If found, please call Karen at 2110. 
LOST: yellow and blue reversable reincoat with hood. Lost Thursday night at Nickies'. Please call 4184, ask for Ziggy. 
LOST: pair of eyeg lasses(black wireJ in a soft black leather case near Pangborn and Fisher. Reward of­fered. Call 3059. 
LOST: an I.D.trype bracelet with­out a nameplate. Sentimental value. Call for Dave 3339. 
LOST: gold 1976 Pt. Pleasant H.S. ring. Initial Vaike L. Reward. Call 3857. 
LOST: pair silver metal frame glasses, Timex quartz watch, and NO class ring. Someone holding them from Sat. at mud pit. Rich-7495. 
LOST: dark brown tri-fold wallet packed with very important stuff. Call Bill 3991 between 8 and 5. 
LOST: Anne Klein digital bracelet watch at Junior Formal. Reward tor return. Call 6793. 
LOST: red Addeda jogging jacket during Mud Bath at Chariot Race. If found, call Hank 3327. 
LOST: one, non-pierced, gold, hoop earring. Loop one inch in diameter. If found, call 8067. 
LOST: pair glasses in light brown case somewhere(?) Sat. night, Cam­pus View-Nickies-Library. Call 1208. 
Wednesday, April 27, 1977 the observer 
11 

US Supreme Court reviews b_ussing case 
WASHINGTON [AP]-·School 
officials in Dayton, Ohio; now 
forced by a federal court to bus 
some 18,000 students to achieve 
racial desegregation, "should be 
free at this point in their attempt to 
make a fine school system," the 
Supreme Court was told yesterday. 
Dayton attorney David C. Greer, 
representing the city's Board of 
Education, told the justices that the 
lower court's busing order put into 
effect last fall should be set aside. 
The court's plan to make all 68 
public schools in Dayton reflect 
roughly the same racial composi­
tion of the school district as a whole 
"cannot be justified" as a remedy 
for the traces of segregation found 
after a 1972 suit was filed, Greer 
said. 
The Supreme Court ruling, ex­
pected before the court term ends 
in June, could have a far-reaching 
effect on the nation's school sys­
tems. 
A majority of the justices have 
indicated in recent rulings that they 
may be ready to confine the power 
of federal judges to remedy racial 
desegregation in schools. 
The court in recent months has set aside sweeping busing orders for Austin, Texas, and Indianapolis schools, sending both cases back to lower courts with instructions to find more limited remedies. 
In a concurring opinion in the Austin case, Justice Lewis F. Powell, Jr. said remedies must fit the amount of discrimination and indicated tbe court will require persons charging racial discrimina­tion to prove discriminatory intent by school officials. 
That requirement differs drama­tically from the court's reasoning in a 1973 decision involving a Denver school. The court majority ruled then that federal judges could order system-wide solutions when they find intentional racial discri­mination in part of a school system. 
Dayton school officials were sued in 1972 by a group of black parents and the National Association for the Advancement of Colored Peo­ple (NAACP). The suit charged they intentionally tried to separate white and black students. 
Dayton's school population of about 45,000 is 48 percent black. The district court's desegregation order calls for each school to reflect that white-black percentage, plus or minus 15 percent. 
The court's decision will be reached by only eight justices. Justice Thurgood Marshall disqua­lified himself because of past ties to the NAACP.
........... 
ILayout staff : 
-~ needed e All ~interested • persons contact e ~the Observer e
..-··-· 
WANTED 

Need ride to Syracuse (may 13). ar Dad, after exams. No bags, will pay. Know you've been looking out for Charlie 1620. me and I thank you. Sorry about Sat. 
;-;~~~~-;tri'de--t-;~;;st . ~~~~ing7'rgive me __a11_~ _I'~-q_~lf­
·Florida after finals. Not mush luggage. Tim 1868. GRAB THE DODO BEFORE IT 
GETS AWAY. WANTED: a copy of last year's "DOME". Will pay $$. 233-8855. WANTED: 
3 girls need ride to Bloomington or WANTED: Riders to Farmington, Indianapolis Apr. 29. Will pay ss. 
Mich. .Leaving 4-29. Call Camille Call 4-5404. 4829. 
Little one,Desreatelyneed tide to Pittsburgh. The prodigal daughter has Thursday, April 28. Please call Val returned! Am I accepted back into 7995. the told? I forgot the directionslAm 
sure you made use of the singlellaNeed rider who can drive Qutch well Long Tall to 0 K C or Tulsa. Leave '11. Brian 
2136. SMC STUDENTS! 
Save yourself a trip to N.D.-Obser­WANTED: three or four roommates ver classifieds are now sold in SMC needed to share a Notre Dame Ave. Observer Office-Regina South base­apartment. Call Drew Bauerat 1715, ·ment. MW F 1 :30-3:30 and TT 1-3. or 287 -_3689. 
. To those "hand selected" few, weDesperately need ride to Blooming­would like to express our deep jton or Indianapolis for this weekend 

I 
, 

--, 
-1 
1 
I l I 
(Apr. 28 or29J. Will pay SS. Call Vicki-6781. 
WANTED: six tickets to Fiddler on the Roof-Friday May 20. 287-0742. 
FOR SALE 

Fender Tele. 4 sale with Fuzz-waH and mini-amp. Quick sale, will negotiate. T"f''' 288-3706. 
72 Dodge Challenger, 318 VB Auto­appreciation and thanks for joining us Saturday night in celebrating the close of An Tostal. It was definitely 11 party to remember. Sincerely, 
Anne Giere Betsy Masana Chris "Clown" Nazar (3rd Annex, LeMans) 
Tim, Sorry I missed your party Sturday night. How about a rain check? 
5h~~-----------­
You asked for it, you got it! 

matic with console, P-S, AM radio, $1900.00. Call 272-3028 after 5:30. 
Rare fish for sale. Very cheap. Call 
1631. 
Refrigerator($35), reclining chair, dresser, rug, curtains. Joe Hughes <1481) 
FOR SALE: coffee table 60"22" 16". Good construction. Nice. $70. Also, 4-drawer dresser, $25. Call Geoff at 1078 or come by 519 Flanner. 
FOR SALE: two matching brown and white patchwork quilted bed­spreads. Excellent condition! Best offer. Call 4-5165. 
PERSONALS 

King Richard-Beware! It's coming! 
Your subjects will betray you!! 
·621 Grace-We can't take it anymore. Good-bye 
cruel world. 
Kathy and Peggy 

LOOKING FOR COMPETENT TY··· PISTS FOR NEXT YEAR'S PRO"­DUCTION STAFF. IF INTEREST~ ED PLEASE DROP A NOTE OFF AT THE OBSERVER OFFICE OR GIVE ME A CALL: 
KAREN 4-5448 THESE ARE PAID POSITIONS. 
Alone again? N.D.-S.M.C. Hotline. 4-4311 open nights. 
Congratulations on your acceptance Ji (and mine!) 
M.L.L., Hope you find your new bartender. Happy 19th. 
C. H.A. President Texas Chapter 
Severin, Moroco sounds like a good idea to me, but first Ashland, York, ... 
Denis, 
Thanks for Friday night-for the 
excellent dinner and my first trip 
down the yellow brick road. 
Love, 
"Dorothy" 
WANTED: three or four roommates needed to share a Notre Dame Ave. apartment. Call Drew Bauer at 1715, or 287-3689. 
WANTED: a Student Union Logo. Reward-$20. All entries must be submitted Apr. 28 to 2nd floor LaFortune. 
Peggy and Kathy, You stole our WEAR.Now it's our turn BEW EAR! 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY MARY ELLEN KEENANII(No, this isn't from Jim, but if you weren't so engaged maybe you'd realize I'm just as handsome. (Just kidding.) 
r-.-.~~-~.----,_, 
I Happy f I B-Day 1 I Debbie G.!! I
L-------------.., 



12 the observer Wednesday, April 27, 1977 
Irish await annual Blue-Gold 
by Paul StcvcnNOn Driscoll. 
SportN Editor The Notre Dame offense oper­ated out of the wing-T last season, a set which enal:-led them toamass 
The Notre Dame football team an average of 363 yards per game. will conclude their 1977 spring Halfback AI Hunter led all rushers practice schedule this Saturday, with 1160 yards, the first back in when the Irish hold their annual Notre Dame history to rush for Bluc-(;old Game. The contest will more than 1000 yards. start al 2 p.m. in Notre Dame Unfortunately, Hunter' injured Stadium. his knee in the early portion of 
After guidin~ his squad to a 9-3 spring drills. The Irish halfback mark last season, including a Gator will not undergo knee surgery, but Bowl victory over Penn State, Head will be absent from spring play. Coach Dan Devine will be con­Irish tight end Ken MacAfee n·rned ahoul finding a replacement has been absent from practice for for I he 197tJ starting quarterback several weeks. The Notre Dame Rick Slager. Slager led the Irish in junior, who was sidelined because the air last season, completing 96 of a kidney ailment, will be passes on 191 attempts for 1422 participating in the annual event yards and II touchdowns. this Saturday. . Joe Montana, Rusty Lisch and The Irish offensive line has been (;ar_v Foryslek have been battling a trouble spot for the last two all spring for the position vacated seasons. Every year. once the line h_v Slager. Lisch is currently becomes experienced, they are lost holding the number-one spot on the to graduation. The situation for depth charts. The 6-4 sophomore 1977 appeared different at the connlTIL'd on eight of nine passes conclusion of last season. for 147 yards in a scrimmage on However. the Notre Dame line April 16. Montana has been very which was depended upon to return dTcctiw directing the wing-T at­solid. experienced and intact has tack, as his superb performance lost two key starters. Guard Mike each of them contributed to our position that he maintained last The secondary finds five re­this past Saturday indicated. Carney became academically in­success last season. They were year. Dave Huffman will return as turning starters from last season. Furystck. although doing well in eligible for the first semester, while dependable and came through for the Irish center to give the line the Ted Burgmeier, Jim Browner, 
his challenge for the position, tackle Harry Woebkenberg drop­us each time we needed them," balance for which Devine is striv­Luther Bradley and Joe Restic, who injured his ankle last week. ped out of school for personal Devine added. ing. ended the 1976 campaign for the Another position left open is that reasons. Replacing W oebkenberg at tac­David Waymer, who was relied Irish in the secondary, will be of wide-receiver. a spot vacated by "With the quarterback spot kle will be Tim Foley, who logged upon last season mostly for his joined by three-year starter RandyDan Kelleher. Kelleher hauled in open, and the receiving corps playing time on both offense and defensive skills, has been holding Harrison. Harrison was absent 27 passes for 568 yards during the needing to be strengthened, these defiense during the 1976 cam­the number-one right halfback from ten games last year due to a 1976' campaign. two line positions become very paign. Ted Horansky will replace position in place of Hunter. fractured wrist suffered in the 
Bcl·ausc of an injury to Kris important especially since we lost Carney at guard. Horansky earned Co-Captain Terry Eurick holds the Purdue clash. Harrison and Restic Haincs, who has maintained first Elton Moore through graduation," some time last year when Carney other halfback position. The are currently tied for the free safety position throughout most of the Devine remarked. was sidelined with an injury. fullback situation finds Vagus Fer­position.
spring drills, Tom Domin is holding "Moore. (Jim)Weiler and(Robin) All-America candidate Ernie guson and Willard Browner tied for Dave Reeve and Restic will top spot:· Domin is followed by Weber were not exactly household Hughes will add experience and the starting spot. Ferguson has handle the kicking duties for the
othcr highly-rated candidates names, but those close to talent to the offenseive line. Steve been outstanding in his scrim­Burgmeier.
our Irish again this fall.
Spl·cdy Hart, Tim Simon and Leo situation knew exactly how much McDaniels will fill the right tackle mages throughout the spring. 
Schmitz, Eurick and Hunter will be Steve Schmitz and Steve Dover add 
used as the return specialists for depth to the half back position, the kick and punt receiving teams. 
while Steve Orsini is backup at The Fighting Irish have a wealthfullback. 
of talent and experience returning 
The Fighting Irish defense re­for their 1977 season. However,turn all ll starters for their 1977 there are still some key positionsseason. All-America Ross Brow­where a starter must be estab­ner, winner of ·the prestigious 
lished. In addition, overall im­Outland Trophy, will anchor the provement is desired on the part of tenacious Notre Dame defense. 
the team as a whole.
Willie Fry joins Browner at the other defensive end position, while 
Hopefully, the Blue-Gold Game tackles Mike Calhoun and Ken 
will aid in solidifying some starters Dike add to make a solid front four. in their respective positions and Scott Zetek and Bob Bush will 
show how this Irish team has backup the end positions, while 
improved throughout their spring Rob Martinovich and Jay Case will 
drills. The fans will be able to add depth at the tackle position. 
participate in a special photo-tak­Jeff Weston, who received a knee 
ing session beginning at 12:30 p.m. injury in the opening game of last 
on the field. The entire Irish squad season. will hopefully be ready for will be available for pictures until practice in the fall. 
game time, in an activity furnished Bob Golic. Steve Heimkreiter 

by the Eastman-Kodak Company. and Doug Becker give the Irish a All proceeds from the game will strong returning linebacker trio. go to ihe Scholarship Fund of the However. backup support is need­Notre Dame Club of St. Joseph ed in this slot. Pete Johnson, who Valley. Advance ticket prices are was relied on for extra stength in $2.50 for adults and $1 for youths the middle and outside positions, ! 7 years and under. Tickets on underwent knee surgery last week, game day are priced $3 and $1.50. ,_j" but will hopefully be ready for the Notre Dame students will be ad­fall. mitted to the contest free of charge. 
b~ Gregory Solman has started. a noteable achieve­twenty-eight games this season, he ment, considering the team's ERA has maintained an even .300 aver­
Sports Writer 

of nearly seven. age. Galloway stood out in the The Notre Dame baseball team If errors are a pitcher's worst Butler series. connecting for a 
-.. hasn't bet'n winning many games enemy. then Notre Dame's should tremendous four-bagger over the lately. They are. however. proving hire body guards. The Irish have right-center field fence. In all, some of base-ball's old adages booted 69 so far this year. perhaps Galloway collected three hits and true--mainlv. the one that savs that accounting for much of the high run three RBI's in that series. pitching is ixl pe-rcent of the·game. production of their opponents. The Irish· s record has now Last week. in fact. while the Irish Meanwhile. catcher Tim Pollock skittered to a dismal 8-22--hardly dropped five contests. their oppon­continues to be a bright spot at the the season that Coach Tom Kelly ents crossed the plate 44 times. It plate. Pollock contributed much of had expected. With only eleven takes an extremely potent offense the fire-power in the Irish's split games remaining, an "over .500" 
to overcome that statistic. with the Wildcats, as he clubbed a season is statistically impossible. The Irish did. however. end last three-run homer in each game. The The Notre Dame nine will try to 
week's fiasco on a good note, senior catcher has lifted his aver­improve on that ledger this week­splitting a doubleheader with age to .352 to lead the club. end when Cincinatti, Xavier of Northwestern. Jim Sholl collected Dan Voellinger, who also plays Ohio and Western Michigan travel the lone \;cton· for the Irish. as the behind the plate. leads the club in to Kline Field. The Bearcats, who hustCy righthander allowed only home runs with four and RBI's with the Irish defeated twice last fall(3-2 four hits in gaining his second win 18. Rick Pullane and Mike Gallo­and 4-0) will challenge Notre Dame of the vear. wav also continued their torrid in a twinbill this Friday beginning 
Scholl has been the workhorse so pare. Pullane. from the lead off slot at l p.m. Xavier of Ohio will far this season. compiling 47 in the lineup. is now hitting .345 appear at Notre Dame for two innings of work. almost t\\ice as and leads the team in hits with 30 single games Saturday, April 30 much as am·one else on the and walks with 24. and Sunday, May 1. The following pitching staff.· Sholl also has com­Galloway, too, has been a consis­day. Western Michigan comes to pleted seven of the eight games he tent batter this season. Through town for a doubleheader. 
Head Coach Dan Devine readies his squad for the upcoming Blue-l:Jold Game. The contest will be played at 2 p.m. this Saturday in the Notre Dame Stadium. [PhO'o by Paul Clevenger} 
Irish quarterback joe Montana will be vying for a starting position in this Saturday's Blue-Gold Game [Photo by Paul Clevenger] 
ND nine seek improvement 






