

server 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's
Tuesday, September 20, 1977 Vol. XII, No. 16 

by Joan Fremeau Copy Editor 

Student government officials met yesterday with Fr. Theodore Res­burgh, University president and James Roemer, Dean of Students, to attempt to resolve differences in their proposed changes in du Lac disciplinary procedures. 
The students met separately with Hesburgh and Roemer to discuss whether the final du Uu; revisions would include a University judicial board as an alternative to the Dean of Students, an Appeals Board which would accept liberalized criteria for appeal, or some other form of review board. 
The committee first met with Hesburgh and discussed the prin­ciples behind the disciplinary sys­tem, the problems that exist within the current system and what mea­sures could be taken to correct them, one committee member stat­ed. 
Roemer refused to comment on what took place at the meeting but according to the committee mem­bers, Hesburgh is principally con­cerned with removing the students from the system and insuring that the judicial process was not too drawn out. Hesburgh believes that the problem with having students in the judiciary process is that they are. subject to too much pressure to suspend a fellow student from the University, and that they would not vote to suspend a student when appropriate. 
Hesburgh also reportedly told Student Government officials that as a principle, a student should be able to appeal any objection he has with any part of the Dean of Student's handling of his case, including the severity of the pun­ishment given. 
The University's original pro­posal states "The Appeals Board shall not substitute its judgment for that of the Dean of Students, except when it finds that his decision is clearly at variance with the good order of the University community or the rights of the student." 
Student government had dis­agreed with this proposal, stating in their revision that there should exist the right for the student to have the Dean of Students prove before some objective board his allegations against the student, the committee member explained. 
This was one issue on which the administration and the committee differed, the member said. 
The committee then conferred with Roemer. According to one committee member, they discussed the possibiity of a student board which would consult with Roemer on the kinds of penalties he issues. The Committee concerned that students are unaware of the range of possible penalties he issues. The committee concerned that students are unaware of the range of possible penalties for University violations, one member said. "The committee expressed concern that removing students from the judicial process would result in harsher penalties," the member noted. 
They also discussed the pos­sibility of a board that would meet regularly with Roemer to confer with him how he would handle the disciplinary process,especially in intricate cases involving cimplex issues. · 
The committee then discussed with Roemer the possibility of options available to the case being heard by the Dean of Students. The committee contended that, at some time during the disciplihary process, at the student's request, the dean would have to prove his case before an independent review board, a member explained. 
Another issue brought up at the meeting concerned which com­mitee would actually sit down and revise du Lac. A decision was not made as to whether the SLC would appoint a three man committee, including . Roemer, to make the final proposal or approve another committee, such as the one appoin­ted by Dave Bender, student body president, a comitteeman explain­ed. 
However, the SLC will meet tomorrow night to consider which committee will draft the final du Lac revisions. 
Roemer and the committee then discussed the rector':s power to transfer a student at any time to another residence hall, one mem­ber said. 
. According to the present du Lac and to the University's proposed [continued on page 2] 
Hesburgh comments on policy to audience at Howard Hall 
by Tim Lew Staff Reporter  efforts to improve the social space condition, Hesburgh replied that  Dame and stressed the importance of obtaining more endowments for  
Father Theodore Hesburgh add­ressed an informal gathering of about seventy students last even­ing in Howard Hall fielding ques­tions on a wide range of subjects from the J-Board to co-education.  ''we are all a lot more conscious of it and we are all talking about what might be done." He admitted that while nobody denies the problem, but there are no sure ways of handling the situation. He pointed  the University. The Campaign hopes to add endowed chairs in all departments so as to makes the University more competitive with more affluent institutions. He also said that he hoped to see money  
Hesburgh responded to the cur­rent controversy surrounding the fate of the University judicial process. "We're trying to agree on several principles," he said. "First, it's a mistake to ask one student to throw another out of  out that some halls, such as Carroll, have more space than the residents can use, while other halls like Howard have a real problem with the shortage of space. ''There is no easy solution," he said. Continuing on the subject of  going for more faculty offices, more volumes for the Memorial Library and particularly for special over­seas programs for students. "IfI had my druthers," he said, "every one of you here would spend a year away from here  
school. That's a dirty job. Secondly, a student should feel he has a completely free and honest treatment.''  residence halls, Hesburgh was asked ifthe University has plans to construct another high-rise such as Grace or Planner, to accomodate  overseas." Summing up his fund raising work for the campaign, Hesburgh quipped, "If you want some real  
Stressing the need for smooth resolution of disciplinary actions he summed up, "Justice delayed is justice denied." Fr. Hesburgh said he was satisfied with the new  the increasing number of woman undergraduates. When asked if such a hall might be designated as a co-ed dorm, he said, "The Trustrees take a dim view of  hard work, go out and try to beg 130 million dollars." Hesburgh has been spending a great deal of time lately speaking to alumni groups and potential donors across the  
procedures and he felt that the _students were not overly concerned with the change. "The Student Body President calls a meeting for it and less than ten show up, " he said, "which shows its is not a severe problem here." Resburgh admitted that students here occasionally "smoke a little grass" but reassured the Howard audience that Notre Dame did not  something like that. They feel we have the best of both worlds here with visitation between the men's and women's residences." He added, "There have been a lot of plans aired for a co-ed structure, and they run from alternating floors to alternating rooms to alternating roomates.'' Hesburgh conceded that there is a need to increase the female  country. "I have twelve coming up in Chicago. That wipes out the middle of the week," he said. Hesburgh expressed much op­timisn about the Campaign. The amount already pledged exceeds 70 million dollars, he said, and pre­vious contributors are now donat­ing greater and greater amounts. "So you throw bread upon the water, and it comes back after a  
have a drug problem. He sensed that students here avoid hard  enrollment here, and that would entail the construction of some new  while," he added. Following his remarks,  Res­ 
drugs. "There is minimal activity here. I don't get worried." When asked about University  dormitory in the future. . Hesburgh spoke at length on the progress of the Campaign for Notre  burgh was presented with a How­ard Hall T-shirt and awarded a standing ovation.  

Gregory speech captures crowd 
by John Gruesser modification and administering a and rationalizing the charges. Later 1962 polio vaccination containing a Gregory promised, "I will bring a "You can turn it around if you cancer causing virus, to millions of criminal indictment against the understand the power locked inside Americans. After two months President if he did not notify the your bodies," was the theme of without a response from the White people who received the 1962 
Dick Gregory's provocative speech House, Gregory claims he threat­vaccine." at the Library Auditorium last ened to disclose his information. Scheduled to begin at 7:30, night. Speaking to a full house He said that the_next day the White Gregory arrived at 8:45, owing his Gregory focused on three main House sent him a letter admitting 
[coqtfnued on page 4]topics: manipulation of the people by the super rich, the power of youth and education, and food. 

Gregory postulated a number of revelations with far reaching im­plications: both Happy Rockefeller and Betty Ford were cured by. laetrile; a government agent fired the shot into a National Guards­man's head that ignited the Kent State Tragedy; the CIA dropped the swine flu virus in Cuua in 1971, but because the wind was blowing the wrong way the virus wiped out pigs instead of the Cuban popula­tion; and that; the recent New York blackout covered up the North Korean heliocopter incident. 
Refering to the source of future world resources, Gregory said that "Africa controls the destiny of America and Western Europe for the next 500 years." He added that this is why American policy toward the Third World countries is chang­ing. 
In addition, Gregory held up a piece of paper and claimed it was Robert Kennedy's autopsy showing he was shot from behind three times at point blank range; al­though witnesses claim Sirhan Sirhan was five feet in front of him. Later he raised a document that he said were records of Jack Ruby and Lee Harvey Oswald's personal income showing that both had been on the FBI and/or CIA's payroll. 
Finally, Gregory read a mail­gram he claimed to have sent to Jimmy Carter charging the United States with engaging in weather ,Tuesday, September 20, 1977

the oburver 

On Campus Today-------.. 
4:30pm lecture series, "william faulkner: the critic vs. the fiction", by carvel collins, sponsored by eng. dept., rare book room mem. lib. 
4:30pm lecture, "fish community as an index of water! quality," by dr. james gammon, depauw univ. rm. 278 galvin ctr. 
6:00pm nd judo club, ace wrestling rm., anyone interested. 
film, pascal, scientist and religious thinker, howard hall, free
6:30pm 

7:oopm japan, sponsored by dept, of mod. lang., intl.stud. 
lounge, basement of Iafortune.  
7:00pm  meeting,nd cycle touring fortune, all welcome.  club,  basement  of  Ia  
7,9:15 11:30 pm  film, straw dogs, eng. aud. $1.  

7:30 ,Jm eucharist, charismatic eucharist, log chapel, open to all 
7:30pm meeting, college republican organization, Iafortune aud., all welcome. 
9-11:00 pm open stage, nazz 
10:00 pm meeting, knights of columbus, k of c hall. 
11:45 pm tald show, fr. bill toohey talks to ross browner and terry eurick, wsnd 640 am 
midnight wsnd album hour, judy collins, "so early in spring.:' 
WEATHER 
Partly sunny today with highs in the upper 60s. Clear tonight with lows in the upper 40s. Sunny tomorrow with highs in the mid 70s. 
New J·board considered 
[continued from page 1] ed·by all rectors. revision, each rector has the right The University, then, proposed to transfer a student from his that students be removed from the residence hall without using the judicial process and the University judiciary process. Student govern­Judicial Board option be eliminat­ment proposes to limit the exercise ed. of that power only after the official Student Government has pro­disciplinary procedure has been posed that an alternative board be completed. available to students as an option to Roemer stated that when this having the Dean of Students hear situation occurs, he executes the all cases. order as the rector requests without Roemer ho.s stated that he will sit 
using the disciplinary process. on any board approved by the SLC According to committee mem­to draft a final proposal to be bers this right of the rectors is the submitted to the Board of Trustees, 
only University regulation listed while Bender has appointed a specifically in the student housing six-man committee to draft such a contract. proposal. 
Roemer indicated that he wanted The SLC will meet tomorrow to study further the student gov­night to resolve the issue of which ernment proposal to drop the use of committee will write the final 
marijuana and parietal violations proposal. from University rules and transfer them to the jurisdiction of the hall.. TB tests offered 
Finally, the committee discussed with Roemer the responsibilities for NS tutors and use of the hall judicial boards. The students proposed that there be a standardized hall J-board system which must be acknowledg­
r%The Observerl 
Night Editor: Leigh Tunakan 
Asst. Night Editor: Tracy Her­man layout Staff: Beth Cutter, tune. Sandy Colson, Jim Veraldi, Sue Wuetcher 
The Observer Is published Mon­

Sports layout: Greg "Jour­
day through Friday except during
nal" Solman 
exam and vKatlon periods. TIJe Observer Is published by the studentl of Notre Dame and Saint
Typists: Gwen Coleman, Sue 
Scribner, Paula Vernon, Lisa 
Mery's College. Subscriptions mey be purchased tor no per year (S 1 o per semester) from The 
DiValerio 
Night Controller: KC 
Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notrw
Day Editor: Tom Nestor 
Dame, Indiana 4655,. SecDnd Copy Reader: Martha Chris­
class postage paid, Notrw Dame, Indiana, 4UU.
tine Datzman 
The Observer Is a member of

Photographer: Greg T rzupek 
the Associated Prell. All rwpro­ductlon rlghtl .,. rwHrved.
l Happy Birthday Rosaleenl ) 

Sadlowski opens O'Hara lectures 
by Mike Berberich largest district which encompasses and for his ties to outsiders the mills in Chicago and Gary, especially critical of Sadlowski's 
Controversial union leader Ed Indiana. As leader of District 31, counselor, Joseph Rauh Jr., who is Sadlowski will deliver the first Sadlowski earned the reputation of described in theJoumal as a "lib­Cardinal O'Hara Memorial Lecture being a dynamic, intelligent and eral Washington lawyer." of the academic year tomorrow in idealistic leader known for his Both Sadlowski's father and 
the Library Auditorium at 3:30 differences with established union grandfather worked in the steel 
p.m. He will discuss "The Labor officials. Regarding his dis­mills. Sadlowski himself started in . Movement : Past and Future." agreements with other leaders, he the mills at the ago of 18. He rose 
Sadlowski is considered to be a commented, "It's not my job to be to the presidency of his local at age rebel within the labor movement a popular guy." 25, and in 1974 was elected for his pointed criticism of the Many labor leaders credit him Director of District 31 of the United policies of former United Steel­with a sound understanding of Stelworkers of America. 
workers Uniori President I.W. contracts, management, labor law Sadlowski will later conduct a 
Abel. In an earlier Wall Street and knowledge of labor history. seminar on labor relations for Journal article, stated ''The old However, critics charge him with a faculty and graduate students at line union politicians and bureau­lack of experience, being too 7:30 p.m. in Room 121 Hayes 
crats have proven they are out of aggressive at the bargaining tabel -Healy. touch with the membership and IJ!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!I cannot deliver what is needed." Sadlowski is most widely known for his attempt to win the pre­sidency of the 1. 4 million member United Steelworkers Union. He lost to the conservative Lloyd McBride, but wo~ 43 percent of the vote in what the, Journal described as a "bitter election." Earlier this year Sadlowski was challenging tl'>.e official results because of an alleged improper use of Union Staff time and funds by McBride's camp. f Before running for the presi­dency of the United Steelworkers, Sadlowski directed the Union's 

under new management

Engineers to hold 
24 HOUR TOWING 

'Placement Night' 
AND ROAD SERVICE

Engineering Placement Night for graduate students and seniors in 
272-6961 

Engineering will be held tonight in Washington Hall at 7 p.m. The guest employer will be 
Welcome Back Notre Dame!

General Dynamics who will de­scribe the available positions in the 
MIKE'S MAPLE LANE AMOCO

company and conduct a practice interview. 
272-3487

Placement manuals will also be distributed, as well as recruiting 
....UALITY WORK CERTIFIED MECHANIC

schedules. 
ATLAS PRODUCTS 
INCLUDING TIRES AND BATTERIES OPEN TILL 11 :00 p.m.
ERRATUM 
TUNE-UPS CLOSEST TO CAMPUS 

Hockey Cheerleaders' tryouts 
ACROSS FROM LINEBACKER INN 

will be held Sun. Sept. 25 from 5:25 -6:45 pm not 4:15 -6:45 pm as 
AT ST · RT· 23 & EDISON RD. 

earlier reported. 
I 
I 
k.. 

Development Center planned 
by Tim Lew Staff Reporter 

The University has announced plans to establish a Center for Student Development to begin operating next year. The planning for the new Center is under the direction of Dr. Sheridan P. McCabe, presently director of both the Counseling Center and the Psychological Services Center. 
The services offered by the two present centers will continue to be available, however, the main goal of the new Center will be educa­tional. 
"It is important to bridge the gap between the intellectual develop­ment of the student in his academic experience and the personal development that occurs largely McCabe. This is particularly the case at Notre Dame where we have a unique combination of an em­phasis on academic excellence and a rich tradition of residentiality in a University committed to the impor­tance of values in a religious context." 
In an effort to foster an improve­ment in the quality of student life, the Center for Student Develop­ment will work in close collabora­tion with residence hall staffs, faculty and most importantly, the students themselves. 
"The people at Notre Dame constitute a tremendous talent pool,"McCabe stated. "We plan to develop ways to focus this talent in developing creative solutions to issues such as increasing facilities for social interaction and improving 
through student life," said the· quality of social interactions."' 
KEN'S DEN 
--HAIR STYLING -­MEN & WOMEN ACROSS FROM 100 CENTER (LINCOLNWAY WEST IN MISHAWAKA) PHONE 255-6500 appointments preferred 
Can Just ANYONE Purchase From Diamond Import Company? 
Technically, yes. But then, we're not sure JUSt ANYONE would want to do so. We're not a "Jewelry store," so we don't offer watches, silverware. or synthetic stones. Our specialization lies in diamonds and fine gems, 18k gold and platinum Jewelry. We also offer appraisal services and estate 
jewelry, which is slightly removed from the norm. 
So. you see. we don't attempt to please i,~st ANYONE. We serve those who appreciate quality, and the professionalism of a Graduate Gemologist. To those persons, whether they wish to invest $250.00 or $25,000.00 we extend our 
personal invitation. 
Lobby St. Joseph Ban~ Building South Bend, Indiana Telephone: 287-1427 
John M. Marshall's Your Source for the Unusual 
Leadership, sexuality, and the integration of values in one's life style are other issues that the center will deal with. 
•'These are campus wide con­cerns and an effective response to them must involve the campus at large. No center, however large, could accomplish much working in isolation," said McCabe. 
In developing the specific plans for the new Center, Dr. McCabe is consulting with administrators, faculty, and students, in an effort to tailor to the special character­istics of Notre Dame. Since all sectors of the campus, are concer­ned with the educational goal of the university, it is important that they be involved in the planning of the ·Center. Student involvement is ·essential to the effectiveness of the 
new venture and McCabe urges 
anyone with an interest to get in 
touch with him. 
The move to reorganize counsel­ing services on campus was promp­
DOCTORS OF GARBAGEOLOGY. Archeology students at the ted by the changing patterns of 
University of Arizona tiptoe through mounds of Tuscon trash to student life both on campus and 
hone skills usually used for studying remnants of ancient nationwide. Some of these were 
civilizations. [Photo courtesy of Life Special Reports].recently documented in the report 

of the Committee to Evaluate Coeducation. The establishment of the new Center will provide an agency which is more visible and flexible iin responding to these and future changes. 
Before~ coming to Notre Dame in 1967, McCabe was chairman of the Psychology Department at the University of Portland. He has extensive clinical experience and holds a diploma from the American Board of Professional Psychology. He is active in a number of 
·professional organizations and is a past pr•esident of the American Catholic Psychological Association and board member of Psychologists interestc~d in religious issues. He earned his PhD. in psychology from the Catholic University of America after obtaining degrees in philo­sophy and theology at St. Mary's Seminary in Baltimore. 
Exits linked to fire deaths 

HOCKEY FANS!=======================:«=============~===================1\ 
~m Support the Irish \~\\ J ND HOCKEY BOOSTER CLUB J 

Organizational meeting Tuesday, Sept. 20 
7:30 at Ranner Pit 
Guest--Irish m-captain Teny Fairholm For more info, call Chad 6981 
CINCINNATI [AP] -A waitress working in the Beverly Hills Supper Club the night a fire killed 164 people told a congressional hearing yesterday that fire doors at the supper club routinely were kept locked. 
Janetta Johnson, who was in­jured trying to get out of the overcrowded 'Cabaret Room, also said aisles leading to the room's single exit were blocked by tables and chairs. · 
"It was like trying to get an egg into a Coke bottle," she said of the jam up at the door. 
"I just knew that smoke was going to kill me. People were screaming and pushing trying to get through that single exit door.'' 

********************************************************************* 
i * * i ** *
*
* 
*
* 
* 
!
* 
* 
!
* !* 
* 
::
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
::
* 
*
* 
t
*i
* 
* 
* 



a Are you interested in the field of 
* 


a * NUCLEAR ENGINEERING? 
* 
*

* ************************************************************* 
*

* 
If you are then you should look into the

* 
Navy's Nuclear Officer Programs. The ~avy! operates 60 percent of this muntry's nuclear

* 
reactors, and our training facilities are the

* 
finest in the world. Within the Nuclear Field,! the Navy offers programs in. the following

* 
areas: 



!* 
* 

! Operational Engineering -offers one year of
* 
·~ graduate-level training in Nuclear Engineer­

* 
.mg.


* 
Research-Development-involves pure R & D

* 
at the Navy's facilities in Arlington, Va.


* 

! Nuclear Instructor -teaching position at our
* Nuclear Power School in Orlal')do, R. 
* 
*
:: 
*
* 

To apply for one of these programs, you must have these qualifications: 
Be a junior or senior pursuing a degree in engineering, math, physics or hard science. 
Have a G.P.A. of 3.2 or better. 
Be less than 27 years old, in good physical health. 
A Navy Officer Representative will be in South Bend on September 20, 21 and 22. To obtain further information or to schedule an informal interview, call mllect 317-269-6197. 
.

·******************************************************************** 
Ms. Johnson said she had seen the fire doors unlocked "perhaps eight times" in the two years she worked there. She testified she saw an employee unlock back fire doors the night of the May 28 fire. 
She was one of a series of witnesses testifying about the fire before the subcommittee on Con­sumer Protection and Finance of the House Committee on Interstate and Foreign Commerce. 
Ms. Johnson, of Erlanger, Ky., said people were very orderly at the outset, but "their speed was hindered by chairs and tables in the ramps and aisles. I looked back and the smoke was so black it was like crude oil rolling in the air." 
The waitress said the aisles were so congested as the crowd tried to go through two single doors into a bar service area that she jumped atop a table and ran across tables to one of the doors. 
The waitress said there was no exit from the Cabaret Room direct­ly out of doors. She said there was a painted red and white exit sign 
mounted  above  a  closet  leading  
nowhere.  
She  said  once  she  got  so  

frightened she jumped over a steep embankment adjacent to the club "but before I jumped I saw all the ambulances and fire trucks around front. It dawned on me they knew about it before we did." 
"Then something exploded and a great big, huge ball of fire rolled across the top of the building. The next thing I remember I heard a woman screaming 'My God, he's dead'," she said. 
Janet Zorich of Mack testified how her husband George, who was a volunteer fireman, lost his life trying to save others. 
"All my jewelry started to melt. I had my dress to my face trying to breathe. I must have passed out," she said. "When I woke up, I was outside and my husband said he was going back in for his dad and aunt. "I never saw him again," Mrs. Zorich said. 
As the party entered the crowded Cabaret Room, to hear singer John Davidson, she said her husband joked "about them having to put people on the walls." 
Mrs. Zorich also reported an explosion and said the acrid smoke followed the blast. 
She said her husband remarked as they left the room together that "he hadn't even noticed there were no sprinklers and so few exits." 
Capt. Peter Sabino of the Cincin­nati fire department, who was at the club to hear Davidson, reported to the panel that he got out of the club, returned and was forced back by a wall of ~moke. 
H~ then went to an exit leading to the Cabaret Room from out­doors. 
''In this area, people were piled 
[continued on page 6] 

----------~---~ -~ -..,-----.----­
-.~--r ---~------­
Tuesday, September 20, 1977

4' the observer 

Lance's financial matlters confuse Senate 
WASHINGTON [AP] -Senate committee members, concluding two weeks of hearings· into Budget Director Bert Lance's financial dealings, disagreed yesterday whether Lance misled them during confirmation hearings nine months ago. 
~~P· Charles H. Percy (R-Dl.) 

sa~he Senate Governmental Af­
fairs Committee never would have 
confirn,ed Lance if it had known 
about his bank overdrafts, bank 
loans, use of aircraft and other 
transactions. He called upon Lance 
to resign. 
But Sen. Thomas F. Eagleton JD-Mo.) said, "It's a little bit late -ln September to say, 'My Lord, if I had known of the overdrafts, I wouldn'~ have voted for Bert Lance in January.'" 
President Carter and Lance met 

privately yesterday. White House 
Press Jody Powell disclosed the 
meeting, but said he had no 
information on what was discussed 
or who requested the session. 
In a related development, Depu­

ty Atty. Gen. Peter Flaherty ap­
pointed three Justice Department would be "ludicrous" to say Lance 

l-----------------,THE LIBRARY : 
officials to review the allegations against Lance and "make prelim­inary recommendations as to what, if any, further steps by the Justice Department are appropriate.'' 
The Comptroller of the Currency had referred material concerning Lance's allegedly improper use of bank-owned airplanes to the de­partment to consider whether crim­inal charges should be brought. 
The Senate committee took the unusual step Monday of calling four of its employees to explain what Lance told them before he was confirmed on January 18. 
The staff members denied that Lance told them about his personal overdrafts and a cease-and-desist agreement that had prevented the Lance family from overdrawing their checking accounts through last December. 
However, they said they knew about substantial overdrafts by Lance's relatives and that a Repub­lican staff member raised questions about Lance's competence. 
Sen. Sam Nunn (D-Ga.) said it misled the staff about the cease­and-desist agreement because the staff member·s never asked him about it and did not know what such an agreement was. 

Powell told reporters· that if Carter has made a decision whether to keep Lance as head of the Office of Management and Budget (OMB), "I'm certainly not aware of it." 
The White House spokesman said he and Hamilton Jordan, Carter's principal assistant, met 
with  the  President  on  Sunday  
evening  to  discuss  the  Lance  
matter.  

The press secretary reported that mailgrams to the White House and to Lance's office ran heavily in the budget chief1> favor last Thursday through Saturday. He said he thought Lanc•e's Senate testimony last week "looks even better from the vantage :point of a couple of 
days." The Justic1~ Department review will be conducted by Cono Namorato, chief of criminal prose­cutions on tax cases; Edward Barnes, a criminal division attorney and John Kenney, an assistant 
U.S. attorney in New York who primarily handles banking and securities cases. 
"I have directed this review 
t ~ z ·~ $ ~ t team to go over all files, reports, 
records and other material in the various Justice Department of­
t r"~ :fices" to arrive at their recommen-
IMONDAY & TUESDAY t t NIGHT I 
: 9~11PM t 
!PITCHERS <>Juni f~kes l 
t d Gin &Tonics t t ~~Y PINA COLADAS! t I "'9V~~ strawberry daquiris: 
I only 2.00t
·-----------------j 
....... _ J 

There are enough opportunities In the Navy to give every woman officer the chance to become a valuable, contributing member of the team. These are hard-working jobs, rich In personal satisfaction. 
From the beginning you will find yourself functioning In two roles, as a junior executive and as a naval officer. To blend these roles success­fully will require you to exercise self­discipline, flexibility, tenacity, Intelli­gence, motivation and total confi­dence in your own ability. 
Becoming a naval officer will secure for you a position of responsibility at the management level. You.~~~~ be accepted as an active member of the decision­making team, trained and expected to lead. 
A Navy Officer Representative will be In South eend on September 20, 21, and 22. To obtain further information or to schedule an Informal interview, call collect 3'17-269--6197; 
dations, Flaherty said. 
In his thn:e days of testimony last week, Lance said he told the committee staff Jan. 13 about his personal overdrafts and an agree­ment between the Calhoun First National Bank and the comptroller of the currency to end the over­drafts. 
David Schaefer, former counsel to the commilttee, said the Comp­troller of the Currency's office had reported that Lance's relatives had overdrawn checking accounts by as much as $300,000 in the Calhoun First National Bank. 
Schaefer s~1id that at a 15-minute meeting on Jan. 18, Lance denied news accounts that Mrs. Lance had substantial overdrafts. However, Schaefer acknowledged later, the staff did not ask him specifically about his own or Mrs. Lance's overdrawn ac:counts. 
John Childers, chief GOP coun­sel, wrote a memo to senators referring to the overdrafts and 
asked at the end of the note: "Does this say anything about 
Tutoring group to hold workshop 
All tutors who signed up to work with the ND-SMC Neighborhood Study Help Program this semester are asked to attend a testing tools workshop tonight at 7 p.m. in Carroll Hall in Madeleva on the SMC Campus. The workshop, conducted by Dr. Donald Balka and Mrs. Nora Hoover, will teach volunteers how to use testing procedures to determine the read­ing and math levels of their students. Ihe meeting is very important and will begin promptly . Questions or problem's call Maggie Britton (4 -4260) or your center captain. 
need r~esumes in a 
hurry? 

. ~ . ·! ,. .. 
.~ .:-(0J~~ m 
~~~

. . .
.·

•nst,r·pr•nls 
the wiz of the print~ biz! 
rag bond 

2 5 -8 1/2· X 1 l $2.55 203 N. Mam So Bend 289-697 
Lance's administrative or manager­nominee to be OMB director to ial competence? What about the challenge his veracity at that pattern of favors to family from time," he said. bank funds? Is a man whose bank Chairman Abraham Ribicoff (D­has been run loosely and with bad Conn.) said any further study of bookkeeping practices competent Lance's affairs will be put off for to run the finances of the entire another two weeks while Congress federal government? Do we need works on pressing legislation. further committee investigation?" "The Senate committee cannot 
Another staff member had put a un-confirm a nominee," he said. It notation on Childer's memo, how­is now a question to be settled ever, marking off the major issues between Carter and Lance, he said. as resolved. Sen. Charles H. Percy (R-Ill.) 
Sen. Sam Nunn (D-Ga.) asked said Lance should step down. He Childers if the staff should have agreed with President Carter that 

· pursued the news accounts more Lance may have enhanced his vigorously even though Lance position during the hearings but he denied them. said it was only because of clever ''I had no reason to call on a answers. 
Greaory stresses power as student's alternative 
[continued from page 1] college and high school kids were tardiness to waiting for a later registered then more money would be spent on education then on
flight. After a few minutes of 
jokes, Gregory became serious and highways," he said. commented, "You have all the In 1976 Gregory ran 3300 miles problems we did but you have run in 73 days to dramatize world out of all the tricks." He began to hunger. He urged students to stop stress the idea of misplaced prior-complaining about the food they ities: "Notre Dame is known all eat and do something about it around the world for football and because, "You're paying for it." not for college," Gregory's advice Gregory also claimed he had divis­to young people stressed power. ed a diet consisting of fruits and 
juices that could eliminate world "I would organize voter registra-hunger and which required no tion. If 90-95 percent of all eligible refrigeration.

r-------------------------­


The average Navy Pilot isn't. 
No man who has mastered the flying skills it takes to fly and land on a ship at sea can be called an average pilot. And the sense of accom­plishment and satisfaction that he enjoys are also above average. Which is only right. For the man who would go places as a Naval Aviator must pass through the most challenging and de­manding training program to be found anywhere. 
From Aviation Officer Candidate School through Flight Training to the day his golden Navy Wings are awarded, he is tested; driven: pushed and tested again. And for good reason. The Navy has learned that without the will to suc­ceed, no man can be successful. 
Which brings us to you. Do you have what it takes to fly Navy? 
Be Someone Special. Fly Navy. 
A NavyOfficer Representative will be in South Bend on Sept. 20,1121, and 22. To obtain further information or to schedule an informatl interview, call collect 317-269-6197. 





_________________,_____.._._ 
l 

i 1
Tuesday, September 2o, 1977 
the observer 
5 

Controversy s~rrounds new mall proposal 
by Kevin M. Walsh 
Senior Staff Reporter 

Controversy has recently devel­oped over a proposal which would eliminate all stores and buildings in a two block area of downtown South Bend and replace them with an enclosed shopping area called the Century Mall. 
The proposal, submitted by de­veloper AI Candler, calls for the removal of all buildings in the section of the pedestrian mall north of'Jefferson Street, with the excep­tion of the Sherland Building at the corner of Jefferson Street and Michigan Avenue. In their place, an enclosed mall containing be­tween forty and sixty stores is planned. Also included in the plan is a new eight to ten story parking garage to be located on the partial block between Rasmussen Court and Main St. This would necessitate the demolition of the Odd Fellows Building on the corner of Washington and Main Streets, a plan which is the cause of the controversy. 
Televised Debate 

South Bend Mayor Peter Nemeth and Douglas Klines, manager of the Power Dni~e.on Washing­
~----~1~____~
] 
Section 1 

The map above is a graphic view of the area in which the proposed Century Mall complex will be located. In section one, there are such stores as Office Engineers, Osco.Drug, and Newman's, as well as the controversial Sherland ton Street and spokesman for the group of merchants in opposition to the proposed mall, met to debate the issue on a locally televised program last Friday night. Nemeth supported the Century Mall by saying, "I have talked to consul­tants and they agree that the Century Mall is the last chance to save downtown as a retail area. So. many stores are leaving the area that the city might totally decay in five years." 
Nemeth cited that the new mall would increase the variety of stores for shoppers and would result in more taxable revenue which would be beneficial to the residents of South Bend. 
Kline, however, disagreed say­ing that the new mall would not be succj!ssful. He explained that big chain stores, which are essential to the survival of such an indoor mall, will not come to South Bend. In addition, the new mall would need between $10 and 12 million in business just to break even, a prospect which Kline sees as doubtful. 
According to Kline, business in downtown South Bend is good right now. "But, if the Century Mall is 
Q) Q) 
en '­
c 
0 
0') Section 2 
.I:. 
u 
~ 
Washington Street 
Building. The Sherland Building houses such shops as the Hall of Cards and Books and Swiss N' Wurst. 
Section two on the map is also a commercial area. It contains such stores as the Gri.ffon Book Store, built," said Kline, "those stores even a short distance from the Mall will be strangled." 
Nemeth stated, though, that the actual construction of the mall cannot procede until the city ac­quires ownership of all the land on which the mall is to be built. Property still under private owner­ship includes the Odd Fellows Building. Plans call for the removal of this structure and the construction of a multi-story park­ing facility on the lot now occupied by the Odd Fellows Building and the South Bend Transportation Corporation's bus terminal. 
Tenants. of the Odd Fellows Building and the store owners opposed to the new mall are fighting the city's attempts to buy and raze the building. They contend that the building is struc­turally sound and has an unusual architecture s:tyle which should be preserved. The mall's opponents are trying to prevent the sale of the Odd Fellows Building by asking the Federal government to declare it an historical building. This act would prohibit the city from razing the structure. 
City oflicilllls pass resolution 
Because of the controversy over the Odd Fellows building, the city has not even acknowledged Cand­ler's bid. Wayne Brownell, direc­tor of South Bend's Redevelopment Commission, states that the devel­oper's proposal is being taken seriously by city officials. As a first step in the purchase of the Odd Fellows Building and other private­ly owned parcels, Brownell said that, on August 12, the Redevelop­ment Commiission agreed to ex­pand upon earlier plans for a downtown renewal project (r-66) by passing a resolution which called for the addition of certain parcels (including th1e Odd Fellows Build­ing) to the city's active parcel acquisition list. 
On August 16 the Area Planning Committee passed a unanimous ·resolution which also approved the addition and purchase of additional 
Bus Station 
t 
:I 
0 
Q) 
-
u 
Q) 
c 
Q) 
en '­
(/) 
Section 3 
(/) 
c 
:I 
·s
E 
(/) ~ 
0 
0::: 
Odd Fellows 
..___-'--B_Id9!.J 

Lane Bryant's and Ault's Camera. 
Section thllee is part of a city block containing the main terminal for the South Bend Public Trans­portation Corporation and the Odd Fellows Building, a structure which primarily contains offices for pro­fessionais. 

Under the new mall proposal, all these stores are due to be 
razed.  ·  
parcels which were needed.  The  
same  question  passed  the  City  
Council by an 8 to 1 vote.  

The additional parcels, however, cannot be purchased until a public hearing is held before the Redevel­opment Commission on Octob,er 7, at which time the oppositi<;Qi can voice their objections. Should the public hearing resolve the conflict over the parcel purchase in favor of the city, the opposition can appeal to the courts. The appeal must be made within ten days of the public hearing. The judge will then hand down a final decision within thirty days. 
Brownell, like Nemeth, also ex­pressed concern for the city's downtown retail district. He cited reports that J.C. Penny's and Robertson's department stores have space reserved in the propos­ed University Mall, scheduled for completion in 1979. Should plans for a mall in the city fail, both stores may completely abandon the city. 
Candler's proposal is considered vital to South Bend, according to Brownell. 
"Six years ago the city acquired some land and has been trying to sell it ever since," he said. "It wasn't until now, though, that a developer with financial backing has come to the city with a solid proposal." 
Downtown store owners react 

Store owners who are to be ejected if the mall becomes a reality do not share in the enthu­siasm of Brownell and other city officials. Kenneth Peczkowski, owner of the Griffin Bookstore, is especially adament in his view against the construction of an enclosed mall downtown. In an effort to stop such construction, Peczkowski and other store owners are circulating a petition which seeks to save the downtown area. 
The petition states, "We firmly believe revitilization (of South Bend) can be accomplished without the tearing down of sound build­ings. Therefore, we strongly oppose the demolition of sound buildings to make way for the proposed mall. Also, we oppose publicly financed construction and maintenance of parking garages for the proposed mall. We insist that the affected businesses be allowed to continue." This petition will be submitted to Congressman John Brademas as a sign of force in opposition to the mall. 
Peczkowski voiced disapproval at the prospect of the area's stores removal from their locations. "The major problem is that small busi­nessmen won't fit into the plans of the developers. People on a limited budget and who are willing to bring in different products will be elimi· nated," mentioned Peczkowski. 
Sherland buDding to remain 

In addition. Peczkowski is upset that Candler, the developer, nas invited stores from the North Village Mall (which he developed) to relocate in the downtown mall rather than ask the merchants already downtown ~ 1 ~nain there, with the except;on of those shops located on the firs• fkor of t:Ve Sherland Building. . . 
Brown~ll stated L1P4 a reason for 
[Photo by Kevin M. Walsh] Building is because of its structural soundness. ·'The Sherland Build­ing has been rehabilitated and fixed both inside and outside and has good long-term tenants," said Brownell. According to him, though, the Odd Fellows Building has not undergone such renewal. It is alledged by some sources, however, that the reason why the Sherland Building is not to be razed is because Candler has experienced financial losses lately in other areas. Sources added that both the survival of the Sherlarid Building,· which houses a shop called Swiss N'Wurst owned by Candler, and the survival of the entire mall project may be vital if Candler is to recoup his alledged losses. Candler, in response to this allegation, said, "The Sherland Building is the only feasible one to keep. As for being in financial difficulty, that's ridiculous. It is my business and has nothing to do with the mall.'' Brownell also stated that the Sherland Building would remain in place, regardless of whether Cand­let had an interest in it or not. Unanswered questions Should the proposed mall actual­ly be built, Peczkowski cited other problems. First, the mall is due to lose money. "Malls will soon be outdated," he said, "for they are too expensive to operate." In addition, Peczkowski men­tioned the problem of the proposed mall's layout. He said many questions remain unanswered: What happens if the mall doses at 9 pm? How will people then get from one side of the mall to the other without walking a great distance? If the mall is open twenty-four hours, who will guard it and how will fhe store owners be able to afford the necessary heat and security? The parking garage which is planned for the mall is -also a bad idea, says the Griffon bookstore owner. The garage, which would be a terminal for city buses as well as a parking facility, would be unsightly, states Peczkowski. If garages are really needed, he feels a more viable alternative would be the construction of two smaller garages. Peczkowski and other merchants have developed a counterproposal which they plan to introduce at the Redevelopment Commission's pub­lie hearing in October. This plan includes keeping all present build­ings in place, while adding the forty new shops planned for the mall in the empty lots now owned by the city. State representative opposes oWl State Representative Richard Doyle, a tenant of the Odd Fellows Building, is also opposed to the plans for the proposed mall. Doyle stated, "The local governmental 
process is fundamentally unsound. The least efficient system is over­coming the most efficient system. City institutions provide services for a geographic area rather than being designed to serve individual 
people.,. 
Doyle feels that the proposed mall would never pass if put to a referendum. Until the pu\)lic hearing on October 7, though, no 



_~<?t .tearmg· .~~wn .~~-...s.~e~l~~-.-.•~!!hc:r ~9i~q-~~~-~~~~e~t~ •..·.·-·.·. 
'. 
[Photo by_Kevin_ M. Walsh] 

Tue~day, September 20, 1977
the observer 


U.S. opened new Middle East diplomacy 
WASHINGTON [API -The Car­ter administration opened new round of Middle East diplomacy yesterday with Israeli Foreign Min­ister Moshe Dayar and said he would be willing to talk with the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO) if the group accepts United Nations resoultions recognizing Is­rael. 
Dayan carried to President Car­ter and Secretary of State Cyrus R. Vance proposals for a settlement that would return some territories to the Arab countries but maintain Israeli military control over the west bank of the Jordan River. 
Administration officials, while not optimistic about a break­through in negotiations, emphasiz­ed a determination to get the Palestinians admitted to the peace table. 
The administration said the Uni­ted States "would be willing to talk with the PLO if they accept 242 and 338," the 196 7 and 1973 Security Council resolutions implying accep­tance of Israel's existence and promoting peaceful settlement of the Arab-Israeli conflict. 
But a State Department spokes­man, in making the statement, said the United States ''is not in the business of imposing our views" 
Many bikes taken 
by Floreoceanoe Strlgle Over 600 bicycles have been reported missing or .stolen on the Notre Dame campus during the past three and one half years. Yet according to the Bicycle Registra­tion office, only fifty people at Notre Dame have registered their bikes this year. Registration consists of filling out a bicycle description and pay­ing a one dollar fee. This process entitles a bike owner to the use of a national computer hook-up which send print-outs to the Indiana State Police, South Bend police, and other local police stations every month on stolen and recovered bikes. Registration is good for four years. Arthur Pears, director of Notre Dame Security, commented "It's a good service...many stolen regis­tered bikes have been recovered. We've even had bikes returned after two years.'' The recovery rate · on non-registered bicycles is much lower, he noted. Besides the use of the computer, Notre Dame bike registration pro­vides the qualifications needed to fulfill a South Bend ordinance which states that all bikes must be registered to face impoundment. Registration also entitles bike own­ers to free winter storage in the stadium. "I'm sorry more people don t take advantage of it, "said Pears. "We're in the student manual and we've run stories in the Observer, but no one cares until their bike gets stolen." Students wishing to register their bikes may do so Monday through Friday from 4 p.m. until 8 
p.m. in Room 121 of the Adminis­tration Building. 
Fire code violated 
[continued from page 3] up this high,'' he said, gesturing five feet from the ground. "All you could see were arms and legs. I started pulling people out. I took as much smoke as I could and left," he said. 
Kentucky Gov. Julian Carroll predicted Monday morning that the owners ofthe club and former state Fire Marshal John Calvert might be indicted for "clearly illegal and malacious" activities and for their total disregard for the safety of Beverly Hills patrons. 
He charged that Richard Schilling and his sons, owners ·of the club, had engaged in a "con­spiracy'' with architects and elec­trical workers to violate state and that all parties to the dispute must agree on who can participate at the Geneva conference the administration hopes to have re­convened by the end of the year. 
Throughout the summer the administration invited the PLO to accept the U.N. resolutions. President Carter in August said if the Palestinians took that step it "would open a new opportunity for us to start discussions with them." 
The department's statement, in response to questions at the daily news b1riefing, appeared to go a step further by referring to the PLO directly. 
Dayan arrived with some mystery surrounding his travels of recent days. After boarding a flight to New York in Brussels he disem­barked :>ecretly and went to Paris for a day before returning to Israel Sunday to confer with Prime Minis­ter Menahem Begin. 
"I thought it was worthwhile to report to him about the meeting I had on my way," Dayan said. 

"That's what I did. I went back to Israel and told the prime minister about it.'' 
The foreign minister declined, however, to divulge with whom he had talked -there has been speculation it was with an Arab official -and Vance hurried him to their meeting before other ques­tions could be asked. 
Tomorrow the Egyptian foreign minister, Ismail Fanmy, is due here for talks with Carter and Vance. 
Next Wednesday it will be  Syrian  
Foreign  Minister  Abdel  Halim  
Khaddam's turn.  



THE SPIEED READING COURSE 
of Dr. Vearl .McBride world renowned educator and author will be presented in the South Bend area. There will be a series of FREE 1 hour lectures explaining the course, dates of classes and tuition. Increase your reading speed with greatly increased comprehension. 
This course is for: *BUSINESS PEOPLE *THE STUDENT *PROFESSIONAL PEOPLE *THE GIFTED CHILD 
*TECHNICAL REA~DER *THE REMEDIAL READER 
*LOW COMPREHENSION READER *THE SLOW READER 
Dr. McBride's Panoramic Reading has been featured on national TV and radio with students reading over many thousand words a minute. These lectures are designed to inform you what Panoramic Reading can do for you. Panoramic Reading can save you hours a week at the same time increase your comprehension. Learn to read 3-10 times faster, and a greater understanding of what you read. The fastest readers in the world an~ taught by McBride Method of Panoramic Reading. 
Attend one of the following special FREE one hour lectures at the following time and places 
Howctrd Johnson's Motel 


Mon. Sept. 19 Tues. Sept. 20 Wed. Sept. 21 
Thur. Sept. 22 
U.S. Hwy 31 North· 
Two meetings, one at 6:30p.m. and again at 8:30 r.m. Two meetings, one at 6:30p.m. and again at 8:30 r.m. Two meetings, one at 6:30p.m. and again at 8:30p.m. 
TWO FINAL MEETINGS Two meetings, one at 6:30p.m. and again at 8:30p.m. 
Presented by The Nntional R!=!~dinq Enrichment Institute A Non-Profit OrCJanization 
1l\ttendance limited to 50 people 
building codes. ··• 
• 
. ... 

·~----~--~-~-----~~·­
--~~-~------,_...~-~~ ---.-------..,...--~~---. '-------------~~:--~--... 
Tuesday, September 20, 1977 the observer 
7 

Carter backs minority med school preference -­
WASHINGTON [AP] -The Car­ter administration urged the Su­preme Court yesterday to rule that blacks and other minorities can be given special treatment by a state medical school's admissions pro­gram. 
The Justice Department said, however, that the high court should put off any decision on whether Allan Paul Bakke was denied admission to the University of California at Davis Medical School solely because he is white. Bakke had brought suit charging reverse discrimination. 
In a 74-page legal brief signed by Atty. Gen. Griffin Bell and other top Justice Department officials, the administration endorsed in sweeping and general terms af­firmative action programs that take race into account in order to overcome effects of past discrimin­ation. 
But while endorsing the use of 

we are happy to be part of the 

TheNow Printers™ neighborhood 
i 


FAST PRINTING ! I 
resumes •term papers • flyers announcements • transparencies 
on U.S. 31 one block south of Wendy's 
5 minutes from campus 277-3355 
1 

Classified 
2 


Ads
3 
NOTICES 

MORRISSEY LOAN FUND Student loans $20-$150. 1 day wait. 1 percent interest. Due In 30 days. LaFor­tune Basement. M-F. 11:15-12:15. 
Typing. Reasonable rates. Call 8051. 
Sewing repairs. Reasonable. Call 8051. 
Need ride to Bloomington, Ind. (IU) this weekend (or any weekend). Call Vicki 6751. 
Cheap skate. MWF 12-1 free. Skate rental $.75. Snack bar. 
CONTACT LENS WEARERS. Save on brand name hard and soft lens supplies. Send for free illustrated catalog. Contact Lens Supplies, Box 7453, Phoenix, Ari­zona. 85011. 
The Notre Dame-St. Mary's Council for the Retarded's first dance is Wed., Sept. 21 in the Logan Cafe. Come and join the fun from 7:30 to 10:00 p.m. Any questions call Jeanne Conboy 284-4391 or Art Koebel 287-7509. 
Accurate. fast _typing. Mrs. Donoho. 232-0746. Hours. 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. 
Gad!!! Competition! G 
FOR RENT 

Two furnished bedrooms for rent. Coun­try house, 10 minutes from Notre Dame. Share living quarters with two other students. 277-3604. 
LOST & FOUND 

Lost: Pair of brown glasses. Lost in South Dining Hall on 9-8-77. Call Kinny at 232-9140. 
Lost: a round decreative pin, between Walsh & Farley and the North Dining Hail. 
Hey, Sheila, wouldn't you like an address or phone no. on that ad??? 
Found: On sidewalk 1976 Holy Cross preparatory class ring. Call Denise 4-5402. 
Found: Set of keys in Observer office. Come to claim. 
Lost: One SMC class ring, initials CFH, '78. Reward. 4-5143 Cathy. 
Lost blue backpack probably in Stepan Center lot. Please return to 524 Crescent 
Ave.  or  Observer office.  Reward.  234­ 
0439.  
WANTED  

Help! Desperately need 3 GA tickets to Mich. State game for Seattle family. Beth 4336. 
Make a girl happy! Sell me four GA tickets to USC. Also interested in purchasing Michigan State GA tickets. Great money. Carol 8983. 
Two need ride to Dayton area desper­ately. Weekend of Sept. 23-25. Call Tom 8624 or Dave 8303. 
Need ride to Buffalo on Sept. 23. Call Bill 6770. 
Need 2-4 GA tickets to Mich. St., Navy, or Georgia Tech. games. Will pay top $. Call Pat 8377 or 8378. 
I'll pay extra for good Ga Mich. State tix ­Joan 1280. 
I desperately need 3 tickets for Georgia Tech. 8774. 
Will trade COORS and-or $$$ for one Michigan State ticket. Kevin 283-1582. 
Need four GA tix USC preferably together. Call Rick 8688. 
Wanted: 10-20 GA tickets to any home game. Will pay any$$$. Cali 1212 or 1197 ask for Bob. 
Hey, Kerrigan. isn't that a bit much? 
Is Notre Dame more exciting than Ohio State? Help four friends of mine decide. 4 Michigan State tickets should do the job. Call Geoff at 1083. 
Need Help part-time must be willing to work weekends and holidays. prefer local student but will consider others. Forum Cinema, 1 mi. north of ND campus on 
U.S. 31 north. See Mr. Randazzo even­ings or weekends. 277-1371. 
Need 1 tickets for Purdue game. Call 8789. 
2 Purdue tix. Call 1057. 
The Distillery Uquor store has opening for part-time help. Must be 21 and clean cut. Apply at 1723 SCI. Bend. Avenue. 
9:30 a.m. untll10:00 p.m. 
·------­

"reasonably selected numerical targets" by such programs, the government brie:f said "rigid ex­clusionary quotas" could not pass constitutional tests. 
"In making the difficult admis­sions decisions, reasonably selec­ted numerical targets for minority admissions can be useful as a gauge of the program's effective­ness," the Justice Department brief said. 
It later drew a distinction, not fully explained!, between such "reasonable goals and targets" and quotas. 
That argument did not go as far as some civil rights attorneys had hoped. Those attorneys argue that even quotas-rigidly reserved slots for minority applicants-should be ruled legal because they meet a "compelling state interest" in providing needt:d minority doctors and other professionals. 
The argument probably will not draw rave reviews from opponents to affirmative adion programs who see any use of racial criteria to help minorities as a type of reverse discrimination. 
The government brief said the legal record in Bakke's case is not complete enough to be the basis of a Supreme Court decision that could determine the future of all affirmative action programs in education and business and pro­foundly affect race relations. 
Bakke, a white civil engineer from Sunnyvale, Calif., argued successfully before the California 
Wanted: Two Purdue tix, call Bob 8330. 
Please help! Need 3 tickets for Georgia . Tech. Call Judy 7375 or Nancy 7414. 
Wanted: Six GA tickets to USC. Call Jeanne at 4-4001. 
Talk about lost causes. If you would like to unload 3 USC tickets, please call 8051. 
Please, I need four Michigan tickets. Cali Alicia 8117. 
Desperately need tickets to Michigan State and Soutlnern Cal. Please call Marianne at 1262. 
Wanted: 4 Ga tickets for Southern Cal. Will pay good bucks. Call 1423, ask for Mike. 
Desperately need 4Georgia Tech. tickets. Call Bill 8792. 
Wanted: 5 USC tickets. Call Paul at 1424. 
Wanted: Two tickets to Mlchigan State game, either Ga or student ticket. Cali Mark 1436. 
Wanted: 2 to 4 USC tickets. Student or Ga. Will pay money! Suzy 5148. 
2 N D students need roommate to share house. 233-8855 or 283-3228. 
Need six Southern Cal tix. Mark 287-7051 
Need 4Michigan State tickets. Call Claire 289-6533. Between 4 & 7. 
Desperately need 2 Michigan State tickets. Preferably Ga. Will pay top $. Call 8515, ask for Mark. 
Need 1 ticket for any home name except Navy. Call Mark 1609. 
Wanted: 1girl to share house. Call Frani 234-3730. 
Two guys need ride to South Chicago ­Sept. 23. Call1720 or 7449. 
Desperately neeld 2-6 Mich. State tickets. Call bob 3301. 
Wanted: Will trade 4 blondes for 4 USC or Mich. St. tix. Call Pat 272-5843. 
Wanted: One MSU student football 
ticket. Will pa~( $$$(money) or laughs. 
Call Mary 1313. 
·-----­

Need sutdent ticket to Mich. game. Will 
pay $$. Call Lenny 277-2397. 
Friendships at stake. Desperately need Michigan State tlx preferably student tlx. Good money. Stave 8337. 
---=-=-=-:::::..-.----------­
Research assistant needed. Psychology background preferred. 1D-20 hours per week. Hours varied to suit your schedule. Hourly wage. Call George 287-4785 after p.m. 
Wanted: A less irritating copy-set mac­
~M. G 
Also wanted: To play tennis with JJ 
Supreme Court that the medical school's special admissions pro­gram deprived him of his constitu­tional rights. 
He said he would have been admitted if the special program had not allowed students with lower academic qualifications to be ac­cepted ahead of him. 
The state court ruled that the 14th Amendment, insuring equal treatment to all citizens, prevented the school from making race a factor in admissions. It said the amendment was violated by the program which reserved for minor­ity students 16 of the 100 places in each year's entering class. 
The Justice Department's posi­tion, except for its briefly men­tioned opposition to inflexible quo­tas in such programs, followed closely th«<reasoning of the Nation­al Conference of Black Lawyers, one of more than 160 organizations and individuals to file friend-of-the­court briefs in the case. 
"We think the government's brief in its present form is ac­ceptable,'' said Victor Goode of the black lawyers group. "It's much better than we first had been led to believe." 
Other lawyers said they wanted to read the brief before com­menting. 

Charter Flight SOUTH BEND to N at XMAS ROUND TRIP $92 DEPARTURE DEC. 22-10 PM RETURN JAN. 15-10 PM 


FULL PAYMENT BY CHECK OR MONEY ORDER WILL BE TAKEN IN LAFORTUNE LOBBY SEPT 21-28, 12-5 PM 
Norkus. (You're right, Jeffie, that is rather forward of me.) 
Wanted: 4 USC tickets. Will pay good bucks. Call Jim at 1419. 
Help Tricia (4-5222) get ride to Louis-· ville 9-23, 2 Michigan tickets. 
Two handsome gentlemen need tickets for Purdue game. Call1244. 
Desperately need round trip ride to Purdue for game. Willing to share expenses. Call Jill 6446. · 
Needed: 1-4 tlx for Army game. Call Marla 1318. 
GA's and stud. for USC game.$$$$. Mick 
2743. 
I think we can all assume that Mick wants football tickets. 
Need 2 Southern Cal tlx. Beth 272­
2340. 
Desperately need 2 Purdue tickets. Galik 
Mike 3119. 
Wanted: 2 GA tickets for Mich. State. 
Will pay$$. Call Meg 4-4046. 
Need 2 GA's for Michigan State. Colin 
8689. 
Need 6 GA tickets to MSU. $$. Call Tony 
1610. 
Need 4 Ga tix to Michigan State. Call 
Steve 8610. 
FOR SALE 

Corningware electric percolators (coffee pots) 50 percent off. Call 6985. 
Used golf balls like new. $20.00 per hundred. Call 272-0783 for more Info. 
'73 Vega, 2-door. Inspected; black & white. Call234-5686 for more information 
SL-1500 Technics direct-drive turntable with cartridge. 8 months old. Mick 2743. 
Harmon Kardon, Advent, IMPRO stereo system. Excellent receiver, speakers, turntable $400.00. Also Bauer Hockey skates and CCM figure dkates. $25.00 each. Call 219-936-4626. 
·----­Stella 10 gear bike. Columbus alloy tubing excellent touring bike. 24.5 lbs. $200.00. Call 219-936-4626. 
Rlchelieu banjo, 5string Wisconsin made -by hand. Left hand picker a $200.00 steal with case. Call 219-936-4626. 
Envoy TV. 16 in. black & white. with inside antennae. $50.00. Call 219-936­
4626. 
Flanner Records fall record sale. All $7.98 LP's only $4.99. Including New Releases by: Chicago (Chicago XI), The Doobie Brothers (Livin on the Fault Line)~ Fleetwood Mac (Rumors), Linda Ronstadt (Simple Dreams), _Heart (Magazine), Foghat (Live!), Styx, Neil Younr, Steve Miller Band, Crosby, Stills &Nash, Yes, SuperTramp, Eagles, Foreigner, Hall & Oates, Dan Fogleburg, Rush, Alan Parsons Project, Steve Winwood and Roger Daitry. All of these LP's are only $4.99 each (except S. Winwood $3.99). All $6.9811st LP's sale priced-only $4.25. Sale ends Thursday 9-22-77. Flanner Records, 322 Falnner, Phone 2741. 
Honda CB175, new battery, electric start, good condition, $270. 277-2123. 
PERSONALS 
Film "Japan" tonight 7:110 p.m. LJFor­tuna Basement. 
For agood time, call KATHY 4088. I did. 
frank d~ar, now you va had two personals In four years. g 
CAMPUS MINISTRY WEST--Offices ground floor Badin--student operated 6:30-midnight study-socialize Sunday thru Thursday. 
Pete, There are some ,pretty nasty rumors going around about your brownies. You'd better take action now to save face (stomach). 
I just hope Pat's cookies are superb, or those curtains will have to come down. 
TOADIE: Happy 21stllt's about tlmal Have 1 good tlma today, but don't forget to mix alittle water with the wlna. 
Poor Steve, 1 just don't have anything to abuse you with. I'll ask JJ, maybe he can think of something. g 
Sally D, Happy Birthday No. 21. 3 years later. Alumni Bill 
·---­If you think you are fast, come and see if you can beat Joey Dwyer. ND-SMC Ski Team meeting, Wednesday, 8p.m. Room 1-C LaFortune. 
1007 Hickory, I don't mean to ignore the rest of you .guys, but I don't think we've met. 
Happy birthday Kiddo! I love you. Your very own S.E.G. 
Chuck, How could we forget your birthday after the great time we all had going out drinking this summer? Happy 21st. L & M 
Pat, Happy third! In April we start with zero again. Love, Tom 
----·--~---­
Help! I'm injured!! This is it! I'll sua tne Observer. I' I be able to paper my house in newsprint!!! 
------------------------~ 


... 
. '~--'· 

--~-~----~----~---.. 
Tuesday, September, 20, 19m'· 
8 

the observer 

Boulac predicts week of hard work 
by Gregory Solman Sports Writer 

Longtime observers of the game of football insist that the match is largely determined in the "trench­es". If so, then the task that faces Coach Brian Boulac in the week ahead is indeed Olympian. 
He must prepare his unit, the offensive line, to redeem them­selves this week against Purdue, after two poor performances below his expectations of them. 
"The offensive line has to exe­cute and come up with the big play. 
We haven't been able to," Boulac admitted, "and it caught up with us in Mississippi." 
Boulac, in his eighth year of roaching at Notre Dame , commen­ted that during every week of practice. he scrutinizes the starting players in his line and judges their performances for the week. 
"You can't remain in a "status quo" situation and remain a good football team," the former Notre Dame tight end commented. "A roach has to hope that there is competition enough to make his starters better players. That's what we're looking for: stimulation from other players that want to play. That way, the players who are number one try to continue on that level." 
The players that are "number one" in the "trenches" are tackles 
Tim Foley and Steve McDaniels, 
gaurds Ernie Hughes and Ted 
Horansky, and center Dave Huff­
man. 

After looking at the game films, 
Boulac said that he felt the line had 
executed slightly better than the 
outcome of the plays had indicated. 
Still, according to Boulac, even the 
players themselves were not satis­
fied with their performances. 

"We weren't coming off the ball, especially on our straight ahead plays," Boulac related. "The defense was moving us. We made some adjustments at halftime, but obviously, they weren't the right ones to make." 
"They played as hard as they could," Boulac said, "But it's one thing to play hard and another thing to execute." 
Ifthe starters have an off week in practice, which Boulac does not expect, ther:e are always those waiting in the wings, and Boulac himself commented, ''If the people that are currently running number one don't get better, we're going to have to find some younger players to put in there." 
With the loss of Harry Woeb­kenberg and Mike Carney before the season had started, Boulac anticipated depth problems, espec­ially at offensive tackle. Moving into that spot and responding well to the pressure was Sophomore Tim Foley . 
"Tim experienced a rude awak­
ening against Pittsburgh when he 
ran against Randy Holloway," 
Boulac said, "but he performed 
very wdl in the second half." 
Backiing up Foley at the tackle slot has been Rob Martinovich, moved from defensive to offensive tackle this spring to account for the losses of the two key players. Martinovich, a 6-5, 255 pounder from Houston, Texas, has filled in very wdl in two weeks time, and looks to have good potential. 
Dave Vinson backs up Ted Horansky at left guard. Vinson, a 6-2, 236 pound senior, might have problems ousting the seasoned Horansky, who Boulac cited as "coming around and starting to play really well." 
Bob Tull, 6-3 234 pounds, and freshm~1n Tim Huffman have been worked at tackle behind big Steve McDaniels. 
At offensive center, 6-3 240 pound Jim Hautman backs up Dave Huffmaltl. 
"Dav'e Huffman isn't playing as well as we hoped he'd be playing, but he played much better in the Mississippi game. He is a fine talent at center," Boulac related. 
Ernie Hughes, who Boulac cited as "playing very well," is backed by 6-3, 223 pound Howard Meyer. 
So, according to Boulac, the depth of the offensive line is there, though their inexperience could be a factor.. Meanwhile, the problem of getting his line to execute, no 
.Women netters compete 
by Laurie Reising Women's Sports Editor 

It was a busy weekend in women's sports as both the Notre Dame and St. Mary's tennis and field hockey teams saw competi­tion. 
ln the first Notre Dame-St. Mary's tennis Invitational held Saturday at Notre Dame, St. Mary's "8" team took second place against some formidable opposition. Valparaiso won the match with a total of 24 points followed by Saint Mary's with 16, Ball State placing third with 9 points. Notre Dame's squad compiled 8 points to tie for fourth place with Taylor University while there was also a tie for fifth place between Elmhurst College and Dayton University who garnered 3 points for the afternoon. 
-· 
St. Mary's coach Cathleen Cordes was elated over her girls performances. The first eight players were away competing a­gainst Indiana University that day leaving the remaining six to fend for themselves in the tourney. "I feel completely confident in my younger team, they were sensa­tional," said an excited Cordes. For most of the girls, it was their first match but this fact was well hidden. In the first singles action, Katy Riedle lost to the eventual Valpo winner 6-4, 6-1 but took the consolation round from the Lewis College player in three sets 2-6, 7-5, 6-0. Maureen O'Brien droJ?p­ed her match to the representative from Valpo 7-6, 6-0 but showed remarkable determination as she came from way behind in both sets of the consolation round to beat Taylor's player 7-6, 7-6. In third singles Saint Mary's placed second thanks to Katy Seeberg's fine performance. Seeberg won against the girl from Elmhurst College in 
the first round 6-4,6-4, but later fell to Valpo's third singles player 6-2, 6-2. Mary Scott grabbed first place for St. Mary's in the fourth singles division defeating the player from Dayton 6-0, 6-1, Notre Dame's Diane Shillingburg 6-3, 6-3 and finally defeating Valpo's player in straight sets, 6-4, 6-3. 
Meanwhile, the doubles team of Maura Finneran and Kathleen Bracken did their part as they won against Lewis' first doubles 6-4, 6-4. Unfortunately, they dropped their second match to Ball State who eventually went on to win the , competition. Sue Marget and Maureen O'Brien combined their 
talents for a first place finish in second doubles competition post­ing scores of 7-6, 6-3 against Dayton, 6-3, 6-3 against Taylor, and 6-3, 7-6 against Valparaiso. 
However, Notre Dame's squad 
did not have such a good day. They 
managed only a tie for fourth place 
with Taylor University. Mary 
Shutkis of Notre Dame came off 
strong in the first singles action as 
she cruised to a win over Terri King 
of Lewis, 6-3, 6-3. However, she 
lost her drive in the second match 
dropping two to Patty Grannis of 
Valpo, 4-6, 1-6. For teammate 
Paddy Mullen, it was the same 
story as she won the first one 6-4, 
6-0 and was defeated later by the 
eventual winner Ann Berning of 
Valparaiso, 6-7, 0-6. Jean Barton 
was defeated 4-6, 6-2, 5-7 in first 
round competition but showed 
promise in the consolation bracket 
as she defeated Ball State's, Nancy 
Schoettmer 6-2, 6-1, but it ended 
right there as she dropped her next 
match to Ruth Rakstis of Elmhurst 
College 6-3, 3-6, 2-6. For captain 
Diane Shillingburg it was an equal­
ly frustrating day on the courts. 
Shillingburg won in 3 sets over 
Ruth Williams of Taylor 4-6, 7-5, 
6-3 to move on to further competi­
tion. She was thwarted in her 
attempt for a Notre Dame win as 
she fell to Mary Scott of St. Mary's 
3-6, 3-6. 

Notre Dame did manage to place as they took third in first doubles competition thanks to the duo of Anne Kelly and Maureen Noonan. The pair dropped the opening round 3-6, 6-4, 2-6 to the team from Ball State but came back in both consolation matches defeating Le­wis 6-2, 6-0 and Taylor 6-2, 7-5. The matching pair of Laura and Sheila Cronin came out fighting in their first match defeating Lewis' pair 6-4, 6-1, but lost it in further competition as they were defeated by a strong pair from Valp. 5-7, 1-6. 
Coach Sharon Petro was dis­appointed but not disraught over the team's performance. "You have to remember that basically we're a young squad, I saw a lot of improvement from last week's match with DePauw." cited Petro. 
While the tournament was going on at home, St. Mary's "A" team were competing down at Indiana University. The top eight girls ventured downstate to snare an 8-1 win over IU and hand them their first defeat. St. Mary's looked tough, sweeping all the singles matches except one and all doub­les. "It was a good solid victory for us to have in a large school division." said coach Cordes. Unfortunately, St. Mary's couldn't' continue in the winning way Sun­day in a tri-meet held at IU. They won by forefeit against the Univer­sity of Illinois but fell to Indiana, 1-8. 
The women's field hockey season 
also got underway this weekend. 
As it was "hockey day" at Notre 
Dame tt!ams from Goshen, Albion 
and Marion Colleges gathered 
together to compete. Notre ·Dame 
was 2 and 1 for the day, losing to 
Marion in a tough defensive game 
1-0. They came back amidst the 
steady downpour to defeat Albion 
College in the last minutes of the 
game via a shot by Captain Patty 
DeCoste. 

ln the "A" squad competition it 
was the "luck of the Irish" that 
grabbed a Notre Dame victory 
against Albion. Albion struck early 
in the game with two goals but 
junior Mary Clare Tolkien answer­
ed right back with 2 of her own to 
tie the s<:ore late in the game. Time 
then ran out leaving the two 
schools deadlocked. 

The field hockey team goes at it 
again tonight under the lights 
against Goshen Collcg~. Game 
time is 7 p.m. on Cartier Field 
astroturf. 

Ski 1team wants 
those interested 
Anyone interested in trying out for the 1977-78 Notre Dame ski team must attend a short meeting tomorrow at 8 p.m. in room 1-C of LaFortune. Important details con­cerning team organization, fund raising and the new tryout proce­dure will be discussed. 
All Notre Dame and St. Mary's skiers al'e welcome. Anyone not able to attend must contact MargarE~t D' Aquila, Margaret Noonan or Thomas E. Lux. 
Won1en 's tennis 
The Notre Dame women tenni!> team will meet Northwestern! Uni­versity !tomorrow afternoon at Courtney Courts. Although North­western will be tough competition my girls are playing better and we've been practicing hard," Coach Sharon Petro commented. 
Still inclement weather ham­pered thE~ Irish efforts for a victory in the First Notre Dame Invitational the nettE:rs still came up with a substantial fifth place. Junior Anne Kelly and Freshman Maur­een Noo111an played a significant part in the Notre Dame ranking by placing tltird in-the first doubles competition. 

matter who is starting, is still In the meantime, Boulac has Coach Boulac's number one pri­high hopes for his line, aspirations ority. of improvement that hopefully will ''The problem seems to be a be reflected at Purdue next week­
frame of mind," he concluded, 
end. 
"It's just a matter of getting seven 
"We're a step away from getting 
people up front to perform the way 
a play to run the way we want it," 
we know they are capable of 
he summarized, "and all we can do performing. •• is work harder." 
AP --Notre Dame s drop from 20-13 Irish loss to Mississippi ancr 
third to No. 11 in this week's the Boilermakers' 44-7 victory over 
Associated Press college football Ohio University. 
poll doesn't matter to Purdue, the But Young isn't taking Notre 
next opponent for the Irish. Dame lightly. 
"Playing Notre Dame usually "They have played their opening 
means national attention and e x t r games against tough teams and 
a excitement," Boilermaker Coach on the road," he saiu. "Their 
Jim Young said Monday, "It's a performance is not indicative of 
big challenge for us, and I have to how good a team they are." 
believe we'll be ready for it." "It'll take our best effort," he 
Both teaMs stand 1-1 ~fter_jl_: added 
Ted Robinson:::::=:===:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=:=:::=:=:::::=:=::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 
Statz 


:==========:·======================:=======================::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::One man's view 
Just when I thought Peter Puck was becoming a thing of the past, NBC had to ruin it all with Statz. Yes, we now have a robot who not only tells us who is going to win, but what the final score will be. What is going to happen to Lee Leonard and Bryant Gumbel? Will Jimmy the Greek look for a job on Celebrity Sweepstakes? 
Berating sports announcers and commentators has become a favorite pastime of American sports fans. After all, we're now subjected to Humble Howie on Monday nights from May to December. They say that umpiring is a thankless job. Many now believe sportscasting is in that category. 
Well, thanks to Statz, NBC may have found the answer to the question, "How do I find the perfect announcer?"All that NFL 77 needs is the theme from Star Wars to be a success. After all, how can you not love a little robot that can tell you who to bet on? 
But, let's hope that NBC is being honest with Statz. They could really have a midget wrestler inside Statz who happens to know a little bit about tootball. Or, they could have hired the midget who manned Artoo Deetoo in Star Wars in the interest of employment. Perhaps Statz is merely one of Jim Henson's muppets with Paul Hornung and Alex Karras making the predictions offstage. 
There are a few dimensions missing in the Statz concept. What Statz really needs is a personality. If NBC could find the perfect blend of Leonard's hard-core New York attitude and Gumbel's low-key casual Los Angeles approach, they would have the perfect host. Maybe Statz could get a hairdo---some stringy blond hair would have the desired effect. Then a neat three-piece suit would round out the picture---the All-American robot. 
Statz could make some people obsolete. For instance, what would AI DeRogatis have done if Statz had been around three years ago. If Statz can tell us what the final score will be, the day cannot be far behind when he will tell us if it's a draw or a screen. 
The concept isn't difficult to understand. Statz could operate out of NBC Sports in New York. Eight games could be simultaneously ged into his program banks. Then, instead of having eight different color commentators analyze the situation, Statz can simply send an impulse across the screen telling what the upcoming play will be. Now yolu can understand why some NFL players are nervous over Statz' debut. At last count, 759 players told a survey service they they were planning on a career in broadcasting after their careers end. 
Also remember that like all television personalities, Statz will be judged by the numbers, Nielsen's numbers. Therefore, his predictions best be accurate or else the future ofd robots in the television business will be limited. Not even his good looks could cover-up poor pick. 
If you think this column is ridiculous, you're probably right. But then, Statz is ridiculous. When television has to resort to a robot to draw viewers for football, the intelligence of the viewer is insulted. Do you really think Leonard and Gumbel, professional sportscasters, enjoy explainin~ why a hunk of metal is the new innovation of NBC's Sunday 
afternoon coverage? Just before Statz' debut Sunday, NBC's Larry Merchant aired an excellent piece on former NFL running back Joe Don Looney. Looney, always noted as an eccentric, is now living as an elephant boy in India. He claims he has found peace away from football. Obviously India hasn't discovered Statz. 








