
------... 
. . I I 

The 0 
server 
an independent student~wspaper ~~:\4~g notre'da~e and sl. ·maf¥1 ~ )·-•• .·. 
Vol. XII, Nor 40 Wednesd•w, Novem~r ~~ ~~77 
Speakers address HPC meeting 
by Michael Lewis the student Union briefed the HPC

'...all of us have
Staff Reporter-on upcoming SU activities, She announced that Cheech and Chong 

seen that the SLC
Student Body President Dave will appear in Stepan Center on Bender and Joe Gill, executive hasn't been December 3. She also announced a director of Student Government, presentation of"A Winter's Tale," addressed the HPC last night on effective... ' by the National Shakespearian the recently approved Campus Life "I feel confident that the rj:!ctors Company on Nov. 14, and the Council. are concerned enough about hall upcoming Midwest Blues Festival. 
The CLC will replace the Student life that they'll want to make Additional information on all of Life Council. "I think all of us have recommendations to Bro. Just to these activities will be released at a seen that the SLC hasn't been improve things," Bender stated. later date. effective," Bender said. "We Later in the meeting Ombuds­An Tostal Chairman John Rooney determined that the problem of the man director Tom Lux briefed the told the HPC that An Tostal plans SLC was it's structure, so we HPC concerning new guidelines for are "Moving along real well." looked to see what kind of structure the elections of student body Presi­Rooney recently presented the An would facilitate communication and dent and Vice-President. Lux gave Tostal proposals to the St. Mary's bring results." "We're shifting each of the Hall Presidents a copy Board of Governance. the emphasis from faculty, admin­of the guidelines, emphasizing that Le Mans President Judy Eckelk­istrators and student to rectors and those interested will not be allowed amp said, "Everybody's excited students,'' Bender continued. to announce their candidacy until about it at St. Mary's," and 
Gill explained that the CLC will the second semester. "We don't pledged "wholehearted" support be made up of six rectors, three want to give anyone an unfair of the proposals. from each quad, and four hall advantage," he explained. Lux The HPC also discussed a pro­vice-presidents, two from each concluded, "Your help in this is 
posal limiting the time alotted for quad. There will also be represen­greatly needed and will be appreci­speakers at meetings, Russell not­tatives from the Student Union, the ated. 
ed that speakers often use most of 
Student Government, and the Drew Danik, head Ice hole, the time at HPC meetings leaving HPC. Dean of Students James asked the HPC to help the Ice 
little time for discussion amongRoemer and Vice--President for Holes in boosting attendance at' HPC members. "I personally feel Student Affairs Bro. Just Paszesny Hockey games. He announced that 
that we have an obligation to Notre 
will be ex-officio members of the there will be a meeting tonight for P.ll._me community to listen to 
CLC. anyone interested in the Ice Holes. )people but sometimes the speak­Bender noted that the two main Danik also announced that the Ice 
ers use a lot more time than they 
reasons for such a structure were Holes are planning bus trips to the need,'' he said. the "ineffectiveness of the SLC" Michigan and Michigan State hoc­
The proposal is scheduled for 
and the desire to give hall rectors a key games. further discussion and a vote at more activevoice in student affairs. Jodie Korth, associate director of next Tuesday's meeting. 


CCUM meeting concludes today 
meeting today with a talk by
By Mike Berberich 
Monsignor Geno Baroni. Baroni is the assistant secretary of the
The Catholic Committee on Urban 
department of Housing and Urban
Ministry concludes its annual 
Developement who recently arranged President Jimmy Carter's visit to the devastated South Bronx section of New York City. 
The theme of the Committee according to the CCUM official program is that "All of Christian life is commitment, lived out dramatically and quietly, publicly and privately, at the crisis points of history and in the intimacy of each life. We gather to determine how that commitment measures up to the test of justice for us as individuals, as well as for our institutions." 
Over SOO lay, religious and clerical person.s are participating in the four day conference. Thefeature speakers are Monsignor Baroni and Sister Janice McLaughlin. McLaughlin, a Maryknoll nun, was arrested and three weeks later deported from Rhodesia for openly backing the guerrilla activities of the black liberation movement. The 3S year old nun held that the guerillas could be supported on the basis of the traditional Catholic teachings regarding a just war. 
Other speakers in the conferencelast evening's plenary session of included Alan Kistler, director ofthe CCUM conference climaxed organization and field services_ for with: a standing ovation for the the AFL-CIO and Joyce Miller,guest speaker from the coincid­international vice president of the ing Protestant conference, voiced Amalgamated Clothing and Textile dissatisfaction over conference Workers. Speakers presentedproceedings, and a confrontation models for organized local actionbetween CCUM and Richard · on the topics of the commitment of Conklin ·over the groundskeeper the church to the labor movement, unionization issue. It ended with members signing a housing, affirmative action, 11ndpetition for the groundskeepers. [photo by leo Hansen] welfare reform. 
Daybreak falls hard upon poor NO's #1 .______ Moses who is hounded and haunted by a-----J zealous, hungover spook lingering on from 
Halloween night. [photo by leo Hansen] 
Hall food sales to remain independent of Saga 
by Oyde Iverson practices are to be changed, the 
Senior Staff Reporter changes will by of a positive 
nature." 
Two spokesmen for Saga Food Along these. lines officials of Service Incorporated announced Saga would like to encourage that its management of university student input concerning the prac­dining facilities will not affect the tices of the Notre Dame dining operation of residence hall food facilities. Ideas for improvement of sale programs. current policies are welcome from 
Bob Robinson, Senior Food Ser­everyone. Of special concern are vices Director, explained "there those individuals and organizations will be no change i~ current which Saga could offer dire~ practices regarding the "operation assistance. of dormitory food sale programs." As an example, Mr. Robinson, 
Furthermore, according to Larry suggested that the managers of the Berkel, district manager of Saga, various food sale operations on food sales operations in individual campus might consult him concern­dormitories are not, at this time, ing the cost of supplies. He part of Saga's responsibility. H any suggested that Saga might be able 
changes are to be made they would to offer those supplies at a lower be the result of a thorough investig­cost than currently available in ation into the needs of the campus town. and the evaluation of administra­Mr. Robinson and Mr. Berkel tive and student input. Mr. Berkel can be contacted at the Director of emphasized that" 'if any current Food Services office. 

Coming attractions 
By Tim Sullivan titles and number from the lists 
to be supplied with the form. 
Preregistration for second Those courses which are check­semester will be held next week, marked on the list must be Nov. 14, 1S, and 16. Seniors approved by the dean of the should be receiving their "Form department or college in which SO's" by Thursday, Nov. 3, that course is offered. Upon according to assistant registrar approval, students will receive a Mrs. Beverly Fisette. Juniors course card. When completed, will receive their forms on Nov. the Form SO and corresponding 7 or 8 and sophomores will get course cards must be approved the same materials a few days by the student's advisor. later. The preregistration forms All preregistration materials and information will be mailed must be turned in to the by the registrar's office. Fresh­registrar on the final preregis­man preregistration will be han­tration day, which will be held in dled separately by the Fresh­Stepao Center. Seniors and man Year of Studies office and Juniors are to report on either will be described completely in Monday, Nov. 14, or Tuesday, the Dean's Newsletter to be Nov. 15. Sophomores are to issued within the week. report on Wednesday, Nov. 16. 
Should they occur, changes in Students are to fill out their this procedure will be announc­blue Form SO with the course ed in the Observer. 
Wednesday, November 2, 1977
the observer 


On Campus Today __ 
am thiJ.QIOrnlng, jeff_hebig, sue ursitti, wendy griffin 
12:15 pm 
wsnd ()4(J on your dial bbok sale university press annual bok sale o'shaugn­
essy seminar "th~, molecular: basis of the cyt9,toxic action of 
complement , l:!Y dr, tibor bQrson, nat'l cancer inst.,
sponsored by mlcrobtology dept., rm. 278 galvin aad. qlty fo1;1111;1, "jntedisciplinary researcft ip_a college of 
smessb· · by James a. zwenemap, VlSJting pro. of
~ance ot bus, econii sponsored by colleg! Of bus. 
adm., rm. 121 nayes ealy, open to all lecture, "scientists & the book of 2enesis" by eile~n 
barker, london scft901 of -~cooomlcs, sponsored by
theology, soc. & phil dept. Ub. lounge j:areer -,vot.;lfsll9P "how to gather and evaluate 
mformatton w1fh karen o'neil sud. affairs conf. rm. 
~c ' 
seminar,, "dynamics & control of!Aolymeriz!lton
reactors by P.rof. w. harmon ray, v. of wtsc.,
&J)Onsored by chem. engr. dept. rm. cbem engr.
crept. S.YJIJP9df\l,amb "trenfds ins~cul~rjz~tion: stuqies, Froblems 
& f~ s y pro . karel dobbelaere, umv. o leuven,
belgJUm, spofisored by theo. soc. and philo. dept. Ub. 
lounge physics coU9qulm, "how loud are violins?" by _pro
eu_g<:nallmerzbacher, univ. of north carolina, nlewfand 
sci. h rm. 118 reilly .lecture, "formatio11of carbon-carbon bonds" by
prof.Jii.Y k. kocht, md. umv., sponsored by chem dept., 
rm. flJ nlewlana sci. hall fasaltebr'sbmiUls, sponsored by world hunger coalition 
w s c ape! meetlnbg, Sjliling club, rm. 204 eng. bldg. new 
mem ers welcome career workshop inter,yiew s~ills with kathleen ross­
mao piano rm. mccandless ball 8lm "bad news bears" sponsored by nd accounting 
a~sn. eng. aud. $1 ~erican ~P4l cultural seri~s, "who eats bread with 
Jesus today? by charles n. faso, ofm, carroll hall smc : talk, digger phelps, dillon chapel all welcome concert univ. of n.d. 


ND welcomes Joey and Bob 
by Jim Coyne 
Bob Hope, comedian •, actor, entertainer, and humanitarian will showcase his talents at the Notre Dame Athletic and Convocation Center on Friday, Nov. 4, at 8:30 
p.m. Appearing with Hope will be singer/dancer Joey Heatherton, along with her 25 piece orchestra. 
Hope, 74, was born in Eltham, England, raised in Cleveland, Ohio and now resides in North Hollywood, CA. He is married to the former Dolores Reade, and has four children, and four grandchildren. 
A dancing act, with partner George Byrne, in Fatty Arbuckle revue, marked Hope's show busi­ness debut. In 1927, Hope made his Broadway debut, appearing in "Sidewalks of New York." A guest appearance on Rudy Vallee's "Thursday Night Show" in 1934, earned him his o'.'.r"' NBC Radio contract, as host of "The Fepso­dent Show'' in 1938. 
NBC signed Hope to a television contract in 1950. Since that time, he has made over 290 shows, including many guest appearances. 
Hope · is famous for his enter­
aining of U.S. troops, both here and overseas. His renowned Christmas shows began in 1948, entertaining Berlin Airlift Forces. The tours have since made stops in Viet Nam, and most recently, in 1974, to Denver, Tacoma, and San Antonio, to entertain hospitalized veterans. 
More than a thousand awards and citations have been bestowed on Hope, among them, the MEDAL OF Freedom from President John­son, the Congressional Gold Medal from the late President Kennedy, a special Oscar, Philadelphia's Poor Richard Award, the Tomm Dooley Award, and Most Valuable Per­former award. 
Hope is also the author of 8 books: "They've Got Me Cover­ed," "I Never Left Home," "So this is Peace," "Have Tux, Will Travel," "I Owe Russia $1,200," 
Five Women I love," "The Last 
Christmas Show,"  and  "Road  to  
Hollywood"  (astold  to  Bob­ 
Thomas).  

Hailed as the only performer who 
has triunphed in all five major show business media: vaudeville, stage, radio, motion pictures, and tele­vision, Hope has "become a char­ter member of the American fami­ly, a welcome guest in every living room." He is regarded by many as the modern King of Comedy. the polished performance he brings to every microphone today is the culmination of some 50 years of work in a difficult profession. His versitility and timing are two qualities that have enabled Hope to capture the hearts of milions the 
world over. 
Joey Heatherton began her pro­fessional career at the age of 12. Her first acting job was in the "Sound of Music" with Mary Martin. Following her debut, she appeared in ''There Was a Little Girl," and "Harold" with Tony Perkins. Before her 16th birthday, Heatherton made her national TV debut and became a regular on the "Perry Como Show." 
By the time she was 17, Heather­ton had entered the motion picture industry, going to Hollywood for a screen test. This test led to two films: "Where Love Has Gone, with Bette J?avis, and "Twilight of Honor," With Richard Chamber­lain. Most recently, in 1973, she appeared in the International film production of "Biuebeard." 
For the past 6 years Heatherton has played Las Vegas, at Caesar's Palace and the Riviera Hotels. She has appeared on major television shows, among them the Glen Campbell Show, The Andy Williams Show, The Jackie Gleason Show, and The Dean Martin Show. Heatherton also starred in her own highly-rated CBS series, "Joey and Dad." 
In the area of recording, Heatherton had a big hit with "Gone" for MGM records. She now has her own production com· pany and is producing herself on record, with an album already completed . .» 
All tickets for this show are reserved and are priced at $6, $8, $10, and $12. They are available at the A.C.C. box office, and other South Bend ticket locations. 
FRENGI 1HEATER Eug?ne /orrmJ, 'lll Cant-artE ChJJJw' and ./aajues Pretm, 'LarimJqLxi? laJiJmrien!' PRESENTED BY .(sketch:s) 
le Tretmu de Rois and le TFm1re de b lllch!tte in Rois 
SUNDAY NOVEMBER 6, 1977 2pm. O'LAUGHLIN AUDITDRIUM, Sf~ MARYS COLLEGE 
Student Tickets for $2.00 are available in the Department of Modem and Classical Languages, 304 O'Shaugnessy Hall. (General adrrission $3.00) 


seniors! ~ 
nominate your senior classfellow -today thrufriday­
dining ha11s, huddk ' b fortune and ~ lxir 
A 
COUPON 


Weather 

Variable cloudiness with a 40 per cent chance of showers Wednesday. Highs in the mid 60s. There is a 60 per cent chance of showers and thunderstorms Wednesday night and Thursday. Lows Wednesday night in the mid 50s. Highs Thursday in the mid 60s. 

*The Observer 

Night Editor: S. Odland Asst. Night Editor: T. Herman layout Staff: D. Miller, M. Brassil Features layout: D. O'Keefe Sports layout: T. Pace Typists: T. Meehan, E. Lynch, 
M. Rust, P. Vernon E.M.T.: K. Chiames Day Editor: K. Flynn Copy Reader: M. Villani Ad layout: J.P. O'Connell Photographer: L. Hansen 

FUN 
The Observer Is published Mon. dey through Frtdey except during exem end Vilc.lltlon periods. Tt)e Observer Is published by the students of Notre Deme end Selnt Mery's College. Subscriptions mey be purchesed tor UO per yeer (S I o per semester) from The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Deme, tndlene 46556. Second cless postege peld, Notre Deme, tndlene, 4U56. 
The Observer Is e member of the Anocleted Preil. All repro. ductlon rights ere reserved. 

r-------~--~~-­
general remrd store and vuhat-not shoppe 


$1~~~ 

any LP ceramic and plaster things with student ID 
v..E're ar: 207 N. Michigan St. River Bend Raza next to Monis Civc Auditorium 
hou~ 
11 to 7 pm Mon-lhu~ llto9pm Ai-Sat 
We Welcome All Students to the KNIGHTS! 8c: 
(3 



54533!~~~P '~ ~a!n~~ zl 
'(ues. and Wed-10:30 am-6:30 Thurs. and Fri.-8:30am_ 8:30 Sat.:.::30 am-5:00pm Closed Monday 
.j 



--. 
-~-~.~ 

Wedntsday, November 2, 1977 
the observer 

Danehy denied right to court order 
At a hearing last Thursday continue to use his present itm order. in Starke County Courthouse, 
laboratory in Room 275 until Danehy, a professor ofJudge Marvin McLaughlin de­another is prepared for his chemistry at Notre Dame fornied the request by professor 
use. 26 years, noted that his hear­emeritus James Danehy, for a ing had little to do with thecourt order to prevent the According to Danehy, the status of his case against theUniversity from moving him judge said· he could not inter­University on the grounds offrom his office and laboratory. fere with the University's age discrimination. A hearing 
"disposition of space assign­
Danehy, moved into a new date has yet to be set to decid~·
ments," and believed that he 
office, Room 363A in the the University's motion to
did not have the right to issue 
Chemical Engineering Build­dismiss the case, made Ias1 ing, last Friday. He will the administration a restrain-April. 
New ticket distribution 

Lottery ends overnight wait 
by Florenceanne Strlgle next morning. At nine a.m. the concerts," added LaCosta. 
Pollack returns to S. Bend 
Academy-award nominee director, Sydney Pollack is returning to his home town, South Bend, for the Indiana premiere showing of his newest film Bobby Deerfield, starring A1 Pacino and Martha Keller, on Thursday, Nov. 3. 
A champagne reception to honor Mr. Pollack will begin at 8 p.m. at Century Center. At 9:15 p.m. following the reception, everyone is invited to Forum I and TI on U.S. 31 North near the North Village Mall for the Premiere of Bobby Deerfield. Included as part of the night's festivities will be a tour of the new Century Center Complex. 
Tickets are $10.00 a person. The d price covers the champagne recep­HeSbUrgh h0n0re tion, tour of Century Center, ticket to the theatre and free jparking in the City Parking Garage across 
Fr. Theodore M. Hesburgh, from Century Center. The pro­University president, tomorrow will ceeds from this event will benefit join President Jimmy Carter and Channel 34, Public Television for Maurice F. Granville, chairman of Michiana, and Centurt Produc­the Board of Texaco, Inc., in tions. Both are non-profit organi­receiving Society for the Family of zations in Indiana. 
Man _awards sponsored by_ the 
following day the ticket office The Ticket Commissioner contin-. Council of Churches of the Ctty of A different method for concert opens. Names are called in order · ued, "We tried a similar method • New York. ..Hesburgh will be ticket distribution was used by the and tickets sold." LaCosta said for the CSN concert but honored as Clergyman of the 
were y " C rt 'II . Student Players
Student Union Ticket Office in that if a person possessing a lottery slowed by students throwing four .. ear. . a er .~t rec~tve the issuing tickets for the Nov. 19 Hall number is not present at the ticket or five ID's into the barrel." The Head of State medallton, and and Oates concert. Joe LaCosta, office the next morning, his num­lottery was also threatened by Granille is "Businessman of the will be presentingSudent Union Ticket Office Mana­ber is skipped and he loses his scalpers--students who used the Year." Hesburgh is the first 
ger, stated ! 'the merits of the new preference. 
option to buy ten tickets so they Roman Catholic clergyman to be so "The Fantasticks" bylottery system are no overnight The lottery for Hall and Oates could sell the ones they did not honored. . Harvey Schmidt and Tom Jones onlines and less scalping." tickets was held Monday night. need for more than the tickets' Hesburgh wtll also be honored Nov. 11, 12, 18, and 19 at 8 p.m. in
LaCosta outlined the new proce­Thirty-four people participated. La­cost. with Fr. Edmund P. Joyce execu­Washington Hall. 
dure. "The night before tickets go Costa surmised that the small tive vice-president, for 25 years at on sale for a concert there is a number could have been due to the Safeguards against these two Notre Dame at a reception Nov. 20 Tickets will go on sale at the lottery at six p.m. in the lobby of lack of publicity, a result of drawbacks have been ;installed. from 3:30 to 5 p.m. in the Athletic Student Union ticket office on 
"We only allow one ID per student
LaFortune. A student present at midsemester break. "We are and Convocation Center concourse, Monday, Nov. 7. Tickets are $1,
in the barrel," emphasized La­
the lottery may place his ID in a pleased, though, with the way the sponsored by the St. Joseph Valley and good at any of the evening 
barrel. ID's are drawn and given lottery worked this time and we Costa, ''and we are recording ticket Notre Dame Club. performances.numbers along with the ID num~
sequential places in line for the plan to use this system for future bers and names of their purchas­ers. Therefore if someone com­plains to us of being scalped, we can find out who orginally bought the tickets and present the matter 
CDC sponsors seminar for 
Medical, Dental students 

by Honey McHugh 

The St. Mary's Career Devel­opment Center (CDC) is sponsor­ing a career seminar for all students interested in applying to medical or dental school. • 
Dr. Phillip Bays, chemistry department pre-med advisor, and Dr. Anne Susalla, chairman of the biology department, will be the guest speakers. They will provide the students with neces­sary information concerning cata­logues and reference materials, application procedures, credent­ial files, and reference materials, 
"St. Mary's actively supports the 
increasing number of women 
seeking medical and dental ca­
reers," stated O'Neil, "As the 
opportunities in these fields are 
expanding, it is essential that 
interested students have access 
to current information about 
medical careers and the applica­
tion procedures." 
The program is open to all 
students from every department. 
For further information, contact 
Allison Dumm at 4961. 
Linda Messmore, personnel 

representative from G.T.E. Data 
Services, will be the guest speak­
er at the interview skills work­
shop sponsored by the CDC this 
Wednesday. 
Messmore, who will be con­
ducting interviews all day in the 
CDC, will participate in a 
"mock" hterview with one of the 
attending students. She will also 
critique the interview and answer 
questions concerning recruiting 
procedures. 
Uhe 

~PinJ_jammer 
CREATIVE HAIR DESIGN FOR THE SEXES 
RElAXING ATMOSPHERE 
FREE HAm ANAL\:'SIS RK RETAU.. CENTER 

1637 LWW So. !lend 232-6622 Appt. enly. 

to Dean Roemer," LaCosta con­According to the CDC staff, cluded. this "role playing" experience 
Tickets for the Hall and Oates 
will provide the students with a concert at the ACC are still 
valuable opportunity to receive available at the student ticket office 
career counseling with regard to in LaFortune and at the Notre 
interview skills from an actual Dame ACC Box Office. 
employer. 
"This workshop is particularly 
WHAT AOOUT 
important for women who want to 
MORALITY?
learn first hand how to anticipate and prepare for the problems and 
DR. CHARLES RICE 
pressures inherent in any inter­view situation,'' commented 
speaks on 
O'Neil. 
GIR1SI1AN MORALITY
Kathleen Rossman, Notre Dame Placement Bureau staff member will conduct the work­
TONIGHT 7:30pm
shop from 7-9 p.m. in the McCandless piano room. All 
STAPLETON LOUNGE 
students are invited and encour­aged to attend. 
NO CHARGE 
with Special Guest Star
Notre Dame Student Union & Sunshine Present 
ERIC CARMEN 
also appearing 
NETWORK SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 19, 8:00P.M. NOTRE DAME A.C.C. 
All Seats Reserved: $7.00 and $6.00 Tickets on sale at: 
• 
Notre Dome A.C.C. Box Office • St. Joseph Bonk & Brooches • hrst Bank-Moin office only Sot. 9 to 5 • River City Records. • Suspended Cord in Elkhart 

• 
Student Umon Ticket Off1ce • Boog1e Records • Elkliort Truth 

• 
Robertson·s-5.B. & Concord Mall • Just for the Record • Record Joint -Niles 





• 

'soothe the post -break blues ... 
g§ 


WEDNESDAY NIGHT~ 
~ 

here comes the sun! 
~ 

/ 
~


tequila slJ!lrises !soc! 
~

Georgia T gtm.lets 
~ 
......,;;

SATURDAY NOVEMBER 5 7:30pm D Sinatra schnappshots 
~ 

NOTRE DAME A.C.C. 
All Seats Reserved; $8.50 & $7.50 
On sale now at: ACC box office, Student ticket office, Robertson's-S". Bend & Conc:on:I.Mall, Fi~t Bank-Main Branch only, St. Joe Bank & all branches, Boogie Reton:ls, Just For The Retolll, The Reton:l Joint-Niles, The Elkhart Truth and Suspended Cord in Elkhart River City Records, S. Bend
".... .. 
....,_.. '~.. .. ' ..... 

DSE~I()~ 13A~ 
the only place to go. 

~ ~---------~------------------~ 
opinion~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
DOONESBURY by Garry Trudeau 



1 WANT 70 SH(J).J (){jR 
VIW£R5 {AJ{£1?£ HE'S 50/JNOS 
8/ZN, ANO WHERE UK£ A 
He's 60/NG! THe MAJCR 
/,(/HOlE OtREiCTlON 5TO~ 
OF 7DOA:t'5 Y(){)Nf3 ROUte! 





Reflections on Aging 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii__.__.__.__.iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii edward c . s e II n er, o s c 
There is a story about Buddha as a rich, young prince, and his frequent trips about the country­side surrounding his family's splendid palace. On the first time out, he saw a tottering, wrinkled, white-haired man leaning against a stick for support--a sight that so astonished the future Buddha that he didn't know what to make of it. His charioteer, therefore. explained to him what it meant to be old. 
"It is the world's pity," cried the young prince, "that weak and ignorant beings, drunk with vanity of youth, do not behold old age! Let us hurry back to the palace. What is the use of pleasures and delights, since I myself am the future dwelling-place of old age?" 
The story about Buddha des­cribes a significant turning-point in the young prince's life: the realization that he himself, although wealthy and blessed, would become "old"; an aware­ness which would have a profound effect on his future course in life as the Enlightened One. This insight into his own aging and mortality came to him, first of all, out of the many seasons, of the swiftness of darkness and confusion of the time passing as days now into unknown, inexplicable, unexpected months and years, of the anxiety-­as personified in the tottering though ever so subtle--caused by a figure of the old man. sense that I only have so much time 
Like the future Buddha, insights "left". But besides those inner into our aging and mortality come experiences, I have heard my to each of us at various times in our parents, humorous, yet anxious lives. United in the astonishment words: my father's "I wonder if I'll and anguish which often character-be around in ten years"; my ize those insights, we still experi-mother's response of "Oh, are you ence their impact in different ways. going somewhere?" Their ques­tion of aging has become united Whether the sight of an old man with my question as well--because dramatically affects us or the tears of my love for them. I have been of an elderly woman in a home for presented, not with Buddha's 
the retired. whether the death of a experience of a tottering old man, respected leader, close friend, or but with the wrinkles on faces I beloved grandparent, each of us is love. 
presented with the question of And yet--despite our anxiet,Y and meaning and a gentle, sometimes questions as we age--my parents not so gentle, reminder: "Pay know as much as I know that love is attention!" It is those questions stronger than any division, good­and reminders, which come to us bye, or separation--even that of the · while awake or while we sleep that most mysterious and awesome of mark kairos moments in our lives, all: death. For we have experi­offering us the opportunity for enced, as family, what C.D. Lewis greater wisdom and light. once wrote at the death of a friend: 
As a person who has now entered "When my idea of death met my his thirties, I am becoming increas-idea of Williams, it was my idea of ingly aware of having experienced death that changed." 


P.O. BOX Q 
The only amendment 
Dear Editor: 
The Observer of Oct. 13 quoted me as favoring, at a Howard Hall Forum, a constitutional amend­ment which would outlaw abortion ''with no exceptions except where the life of the mother is endan­gered." This is incorrect. Instead, the amendment I urged is one, such as the Helms Amendment, which would restore the right to life of the unborn with no exceptions. For one thing, an exception is unnecessary. The only situations today where termination of a pregnancy would be necessary to save the mother's life are cases such as the tubular pregnancy or cancerous womb. The removal of the involved portion of the fallopian tube or of the cancerous womb is not and has never been an abortion within the meaning of any legal prohibitions. An exception in a human life amendment is not necessary to permit those opera­tions to be performed. And when the mother's life is immediately threatened, they can be permis­sible even under Catholic teaching under the principle of the double effect. 
Secondly, an exception in the human life amendment would be wrong in principle. In no other case than abortion does the law allow one to take the life of an innocent non-aggressor even to save the life of the killer. The allowance of such killing by abortion must be com­pletely reversed, without excep­tion. 

Thirdly, an amendment with exceptions would be political folly. The exceptions would undermine the entire case for the amendment. This is particularly true since no exception clause can be drawn that does not legitimize abortion for psychiatric reasons that would amount to abortion on request. An amendment with exceptions would be opposed by the strongest ele· ments in the pro-life movement. The only amendment that has a chance of adoption is one that is uncompromising in its language and intent. For the ultimate issue is whether life is a gift of God or of the State. The abortion issue is not susceptible of compromise. I am confident that such an amendment will be adopted. 
Charles E. RJce 
Professor of Law 

Cause and effect 
Dear Editor: 

Once again Mr. Cwik has yielded to the impulse to grace us with his opinions on the deplorable state of modern man. His forays into the world of journalism may be pleas­urable for him, but they are not productive. Everyone is allowed his opinion and can express the same. But if Cwik is truly concerned with enlightening his fellow, misguided students I would suggest that he employ tactics which are appealing to educated men. 
At this juncture in time I have yet to see any sound arguements from Cwik. His assumptions are loaded and they are seldom connected by a rational strain of thought. Example: In Wednesday's (Oct. 19) Observer Cwik begins by talking about "Finding yourself." Without defining clearly what he means by this, Cwik includes in its domain concepts ranging from self-activity, self-realization, self-study to ethical egoism and solipsism. "The old gods having gone into decline, the self is a new God. God, Nature, Humanity and even society have been discarded," says Cwik. 
Cwik concludes that this search­ing for self has caused us to "no longer see an ultimate reality outside of ourselves. Instead,each man has become the measure of all things. As a consequence every­thing is subjective. For example, we no longer hold to the belief that there is an absolute truth to which all can attain. Each man's ideas and values have become just as good as any other's." 
Cwik here has done an amazing thing. In three sentences he has shown how the search for self has been the necessary and sufficient cause of subjectivism and relativ­ism. Perhaps it is the reverse, Mr. Cwik. The search for self is a result of the subjectivism arising from the failure of the rationalists to support and structure the truth claims you insist upon. This search for truth in the self is a response to the ,.,kcpticism of Hume and the limits put upon metaphysical knowledge by Kant. If truth cannot be found in the world, it might be in oneself. (I do not endorse a radical skepticism.) 
graduate education should be­aware of such trends in the history of thought and would not confuse causes with effects. Mr. Cwik, I urge you to buttress your argue­ments with reason. 
Mr. Cwik, if you abjure that homosexuals should not engage in their preferences for sexual activity because it is not productive, I urge you to cease this self-abuse you engage in on the same grounds. 
John Hannan 

A reflection 
on you 
Dear Editor: 
I am sure that I am but one of a large group of students that has been observing the growing labor dispute on our campus with com­plete amazement. With what Mr. Bull has so finely put as the "termination" of all food service employees, I cannot help but speak to the issue. In my understanding, unionization comes about through two avenues: either greed on the part of the employee or insensi­tivity on the part of the employer. 
In the case in point, no one would begin to imply that it is the former. 
In an attempt to put the issue into its proper perspective, we can assume the worst possible case that the Administration can establish to present the ill effects of labor's position, which would be to pass all of the potential pay increase of the hourly employees on to the stu­

*Observer 


Editorials 
dents in the form of a tuition 
increase. If all the hourly em­
ployees were to receive a $500.00 
per year pay increase, which would 
put them in closer parity with their 
co-workers outside Notre Dame, it 
would amount to a $30.00 per 
semester tuition increase. Further­
more, it is illogical to assume that 
all of the pay increase would be 
passed on to the students in the 
first place. 
Notre Dame has transformed the issue from a simple labor dispute into a serious moral problem. None of the Administration's actions have been illegal, but the initial firing of the groundscrew and the subsequent firing or "termination" of the food service employees is clearly reminiscent of the strong­arm management portrayed in The Jungle by Sinclair Lewis. Is the Administration cold to potential loss of seniority and pensions? How about actual pay cuts? Does not open communication bear moral imperative? 
The end result is that the actions of the Administration have been of questionable moral nature and reflect badly upon the students and faculty. Will we stand and watch as 
the school's employees are ex­ploited? It is time to speak up ... Greg Nussbaum 
Logic 

Dear Editor: 
The question must be asked: Has our apathy reached such a state that we need to comfort ourselves through crippling the efforts of a dedicated group of students? 
This question is a response to Student Government's decision to rescind funding to the campus Right to Life organization. We are censoring . them simply because there is no counter group on campus. The logic itself is rather apathetic, and we must realize that we cannot afford the damage caused by a stifling move such as this. 
Organizations must be en­couraged, regardless of their con­troversial nature, to find a place for themselves on campus. If they are not, we deny their rights and our intelligence. 
Helen Gallagher 
Countdown! 

Dear Editor: 
We would like to bring to the a­ttention of the Senior Class that today, November 2nd, marks 200 days till graduation 
Anxious Seniors 

Anyone with a decent under-L.--------------------------------------------1 
The Sound Room's 

INSIDE: 
How to buy a stereo I How to hook-up your stereo What you get for your money I Value packed stereo systems How to choose a Tape Deck I New products to excite you 

Supplement to: Kalamazoo Gazette, Western Herald, Grand Rapids Press, Muskegon Chronicle, South Bend Tribune, Notre Dame Observer, Battle Creek Enquirer. 
-~--~-~-------------------------­
The Sound Room's Stereo Buying Guide 

Investing in a good stereo system today makes more sense than ever before, and find­ing the right stereo for your own needs can be an exciting and fun experience. There are really only four questions you need to answer before buying your new stereo: 
• 
How much should you spend? 

• 
What equipment should you buy? 

• 
Which store should you buy from? 

• 
What benefits do you get for your 


money as the price goes up? Once you've answered these questions, you're ready to buy your stereo and start enjoying greater, more lasting pleasure than you can get from almost any other consumer product you can buy. 
How Much 
~._ ld '"' ~-d?
~:~.!ou 1ou ~ren . 
Deciding how much to invest in a stereo is basically up to you. However, you should plan on spending at least $299.00 for a com­plete component stereo system. Below $299, you must sacrifice too much fidelity, volume, Hexibility, and reliability to be investing in a "HiFi" stereo. Beyond $299, how much you spend depends on how much money you have and how important music is to you. 
You know how much money you have. You know how much you can put down and what monthly payments you can make. You can answer these questions yourself and you should have a rough idea before you go shop­ping for a stereo. 
r 
Another question for you to answer is 
' ~ "How important is music in your life?" If you just want music for background or an alterna­tive to silence, your stereo needs are not as great as someone who attends live concerts, owns 500 records and tapes and likes to listen to a lot of FM radio. The more important music is to you, the more you should plan on investing in a stereo. Remember this, however. High Fidelity stereo enjoyment is an acquired taste-unless you have one, you may not be aware of how much pleasure you can derive from relaxing in your home and listening to a fine stereo system. 
Page2 

Secondly, remember that a quality stereo system is usually a one-time investment. It won't rust away, need repainting; it will just sit in your room and play your favorite music the way you like it. Aside from buying an occasional record or tape, an investment in a stereo today is really buying years of future listening pleasure. 
How much you should spend also de­pends on the size of your listening room, musical tastes and life style. To help you before you visit one of our stores, here's a rough breakdown of what to expect from high fidelity stereo systems within each of the more popular price ranges. 

$300-$400 
If you're just starting to get into stereo and your budget is in this price range, you'll be happy to know that you can buy a really good sounding stereo system for around $300. Our $329.00 stereo will reproduce the majority of today's music with satisfying results in most apartments and dorm rooms. And the components can be relied upon for a long time. 
For $300-$400, you can get a stereo from us at The Sound Room that will bring music into your life with quality sound you can be proud of. 

$400-$600 
With $400-$600 to spend, you can really start to design a super sounding stereo system. By matching efficient loudspeakers with a moderately powered receiver, you can have a stereo that will play loud (though it might not deliver the deepest bass notes) or you can combine less efficient speakers with a more powerful receiver and have a stereo system capable of delivering all the fre­quencies you can hear, but with a little less volume. 
Young marrieds, discerning students, and music lovers with a modest budget are most interested in our $449 and $599 stereo systems. 

$600-$800 
In this price range, you can begin to buy stereo systems with no-compromise perfor­mance. You can enjoy more satisfying musical accuracy and have ample volume for even large listening areas. You can really be­come involved in the music and experience a presence that's closer to the "live" perfor­mance. You'll also find more features that will make for easier operation and flexibility. 

Above $800 
Now you can assemble a stereo system with today's bigger powered receivers or separate components for maximum flexibility, and musical repr.oduction that can approach reality. If you want a custom matched system, one with State of the Art performance, you can find one by selecting from the many respected quality names we at The Sound Room are known for. 


What Equipment 
Should You Buy? 
As you may suspect, buying a stereo is more than just handing over your money. We've learned how to help you choose the right equipment. 
Before you come in: 1) Determine the approximate size (length, width and height) 
------~-------------"T'L-­
The Sound Room's Stereo Buying Guide 
The Sound Room's Stereo Buying Guide 
' 

of your listening room. 2) Make a mentalnote of your furnishings and where you think you'll place your stereo. We can help you pick out the right equipment much easier if you can supply this information. 
We've been in business for over 23 years. Long enough to know-on the basis of experience-which brands offer the best value and which brands offer the most trouble-free performance. But we continue to evaluate all brands through our component evaluation program, so we know about the new equipment too. 
We also have taken the time to assemble the best-sounding stereo system available in each price range. When you visit our store, you find-set up and ready for you to listen to­fine stereo systems. We feel these stereos offer the best sound-per-dollar investment. 
But don't take our word for it. Come in and listen to our systems for yourself. We're confident our stereos sound better. 
Let's talk equipment. 
Most of our systems consist of a receiver, a record changer or turntable and a pair of speakers. We put receivers in most of our systems because most people want the con­venience of one unit that contains an AM/FM stereo tuner (radio), stereo pre-amplifier and stereo amplifier all together instead of separately. There is also a cost saving in having all these parts in one unit. Many of our systems recommend turntables instead of changers. Turntables do everything changers do, except stack records. 
Our systems have to sound better. 
Remember, we're specialists in com­ponent stereo: our success or failure as a business depends on selling you the best sound for the lowest price and keeping you satisfied after the sale. 
We've succeeded 23 years by making sure we offer you the best sound available. You really can't go wrong. 
Which particular brand you should buy depends on what you want out of your stereo. We check out all the brands available in the market and recommend only those products we trust and can back up. 
If you're not sure about a brand, ask us. Chances are we can give you some informa­tion about the company and their products. 


Where Should You Buy? 
Where you buy your stereo is a very important question and can have a great deal of influence on your ultimate pleasure or disappointment with your stereo. • 
Price isn't everything. 
You can pretty much forget price as a major citerion. Business is competitive, with no dealers selling stereos at prices much different from anyone else. All speciality audio dealers have to be competitive or they go out of business. 
You'll find the lowest prices in sound at our stores. Our prices are low. We know, because we've checked around. We have the volume 
to buy in large quantities, at the right price, 
and we lead the way with low prices. 

Select brands make sense. 
Some places claim to have every brand. We don't. There are some brands that are superior to others at the same price. We search out, test, select and recommena only those brands that are superior. We do ~ave the widest selection of brands-IN STOCK­·and ready to hand to you today. No waiting until we order it. _; 

Some equipment is better. ; 
Our selection includes many exclusive brands that no other dealer can offer you. Famous brands, such as Lux, IMF, Dahlquist, .Nakamichi, Bang &Olufsen, Avid, and Qthers. 
But we take care in choosing what we ;sell. We only offer brands that sound good and last. We've seen too many brands; disappear, leaving unhappy customers _behind. We back our brands 100 percent. 
The store itself makes a difference. 
A neat, clean store tells you a lot about the dealer you're buying from-he cares 'about the equipment he sells and · his customers. 
Our stores are designed to serve yotJ and make it easy for you to pick out yo.ur stereo. We pride ourselves in our stores. They have been copied by other stereo stores across the country. 


Service is important. 
Service should be an important criterion. 
· The store where you're buying your stereo should have a Service Department. Many stereo stores do not. They send their cus­tomers to someone else if there is a problem. We have our own service department in each store. If you buy from someone:without a service department and anything goes wrong, you've got to look for someone to fix it or try sending it back to the manufacturer (wherever he may be). Only a dealer with a commitment to service should have your business. 
. 

What Benefits Do You Get·· For Yo~r Money As The Price Goe~ Op? 
.Musical Accuracy 

The most important way stereo systems differ is in the accuracy with which they re­produce music. As systems increase in price, musical accuracy improves. The music sounds more and more like it did when it was first recorded.(The sound quality of our finest systems approaches that of live musicians performing in your home!) 
You can judge musical accuracy by listening carefully. "How naturally are musical instruments reproduced?" "Do instruments sound like they did the last time you heard music "live", or do they sound like weak imitations?" Listen carefully to how naturally the system reproduces the human voice. The better the system, the more natural the voice will sound. 

Volume Levels 

As systems i-ncrease in price, they can create higher and higher volume levels without distortion. As you spend more money, a system approaches the ability to recreate, without distortion, the volume levels heard in a recording studio or concert hall. 
Judge volume levels by listening to complex orchestral (or rock) music. Listen carefully for instrument definition at high volume levels. Make sure the system you buy can reproduce music without distortion at high enough volume levels to offer you the degree of satisfaction you're after. 


FM Reception 

As systems increase in price, FM recep­tion improves. Improved FM reception means you will be able to enjoy a wider selection of stations with less noise and distortion. 
Judge FM reception by counting the number of stations a system can pick up with good enough quality to listen to for long periods of time. Also, listen to the background noise level when the announcer is talking; the better the system, the less background noise there will be. 

Record Handling 

As systems increase in price, they treat your records better. This results in increased 
:j

record life. This is because manufacturers can build tonearms with less friction, per­
mitting better cartridges to be installed. The better the cartridge, the lighter the tracking force required, and the more 'give' the needle will have. This results. in less record wear and longer record life. 

Flexibility 

As systems increase in price, you can do more and more things with them. For example, on the better receivers, you can hook up not only one pair, but three pairs of speakers! Likewise, tape recording facilities improve as the price goes up. On the better receivers, you can hook up two machines, and copy tapes from one machine to another-while listening to records or FM! 

Page3 



The Sound Room's Stereo Buying Guide 
. . 





Why Should You Buy From The Sound Roc:~m. · 
Quality Assurance 
A properly set-up stereo system will give you many years of listening enjoyment. All our stores have set-up and calibration centers to make sure your stereo is in optimum working order when you take it home. We have invested over $10,000 in Wild Heerbrugg laboratory microscopes for our stores just to inspect your stylus to insure that your valuable record collection is protected. Every turntable and record changer we sell is assembled, set up and calibrated while you watch. We invite your questions while we perform this important service for you. 

Clinic Testing 
We feel very strongly about the importance of giving free testing clinics because it gives us the opportunity to check out all brands of equipment, not just what we sell. A store selling you stereo equipment has to hold clinics if it expects to be able to evaluate which products give you long--term perfor­mance, reliability and value. We believe in selecting and selling those brands that do perform at our clinics. Your participation in our clinics informs you whether or not your' equipment is performing like it was when you bought it. We invite all stereo equipment owners to participate in our clinic programs because it helps us both to keep making the right product selection. 
Low Prices 
We believe value is determined by how 
much overall performance you receive for 
each dollar you invest in a stereo. 
We do have low prices and we keep the 
amount you have to spend in mind, so you are 
assured of receiving the best value for your 
money. Talk to us first; we'll help:you make 
the right choice. 
Large Selection 
This fall at The Sound Room; we are bringing you the largest, most ex_citing selec­tion of new brands and products we have ever offered in our 23-year history! A few of the newcomers Include the elegant new Lab Reference Series tuners and amplifiers from Luxman, the futuristic Bang & Olufsen 2400 receiver, the affordable performance separates from Citation, and speakers from IMF that are so vivid they rival the live performance. Your well-known favorites like Pioneer, Yam­aha and B•I•C also have new models for you to see. From headphones to tape decks to television, we have so much new for you to sea, you must come in soon to preview the over 90 brands on display. 
Payment Plans 
We accept both Master Charge and Bank Americard. In addition, we have an attractive layaway plan and can arrange time payments up to 36 months or more. We will also accept your personal check. 
Buyer's Protection 
The warranty protection you receive with your stereo should be simple and easy to understand, with no loopholes or hidden meanings. In addition to carefully selecting our products and checking them out for you, we protect your valuable investment with a simple, understandable, unified program of extended warranties that cover you for as much as five years on parts and labor. We openly display our warranty protection bonds in our stores and, we invite your questions about your' warra~ty coverage when you buy your stereo from us. 
\ 

Delivery \ 
1 
We realize that most of the time you will want to take your new pun::hase home with you, but, if it is inconvenient, we can arrange a delivery for you. We can do a simple hook-up or we can custom wire additional listening rooms for you. Custom cabinet installation is also available. 
Knowledgeable Salesmen 
We work at The Sound Room because 
we love H i-Fi. 

We have all pas~ed written examinations given to us by the n~tional Society of Audio Consultants. Your trust in our knowledge of what we are selling iS our most valuable asset. To help you choose the right system or com­ponent, we spend hours of our time reading, attending sales meetings, and traveling to special manufacturer's training seminars. Your recommendation of us to others can only be merited if we identify your Hi-Fi needs and satisfy them properly. 
Whether you're a beginner, buying your first system, or an audiophile, searching for the ultimate sound, we will enjoy helping you and talking to you about Hi-Fi. 

Service 
You have a righl to expect the store where .you buy your stereo' to stand behind it. We are proud of our strong commitment to service. We have invested civer $60,000 in the finest service equipment available and we stock parts for all the equipment we sell. Our continued growth is evidence of your confi­dence in our service to you before and after the sale. 

Page 10 

Page4 



D<> juPree Kala "'zoo ~~tore 

uur Philosophy 
Our responsibility to you is to recommend those components that truly represent lasting value and the best possible sound quality for­any given investment level. 
We have never seen a year in which there -have been so many technological break­throughs and improvements in the audible sound quality of stereo equipment. 
We have seen products introduced that 
have greatly increased the depth of the stereo 
image, solved the problems of wandering 
instruments, and vastly lowered the distortion, 
especially that of the dynamic range of 
transients. 
These types of improvements mean that 
you can now have a quality of sound for a 
medium range investment that was previously 
unavailable at any price. 
Much of this improvement in the quality 
of sound comes from companies, both big 
and small, that you may never have heard of 
before. This has made The Sound Room's job. 
of choosing the manufacturers that will last, 
support their product with service, and 
continue to innovate, even more important to you. 
Our company's purpose and goals guide 
us in our choice of the products anc;i services 
we offer. We trust that the information 
presented in this buying guide will help you 
in making decisions about an important 
investment in your life-a stereo system. 
We wish to thank all of you who have 
purchased stereo equipment from us and 
recommended us to your friends. We owe our 
growth and success to you. 
Kenneth Ketch, President 
P.S. Your comments and suggestions are always welcome. 


Terry !=reib~rg Grand Rapids Store 
Michael C. Wright Vice President, Sales Rich Mansfield Grand Rapids Store 


Manager Kalamazoo Store 


. ··. 

Eastbrook Mall/ (616) 949-2800 Hours: Mon. thru Sat.: 11-9 
469 W. Michigan Ave./ (616) 382-5291 Hours: Mon., Wed. & Fri.: 10-8 Tues. & Thurs.: 10-6, Sat.: 9-5 
vUdTH BEND: 
52578 US 31 North I (219) 277-1515 Hours: Mon. thru Fri.: 10-9 Sat.: 10-6 

Manager Grand Rapids Store 

Gary Meek Grand Rapids Store 

Kalamazoo Store 

···.:.:-.,.... 


SOlJN) 
ROOM 
SERVING MICHIGAN &INDIANA 





TI-E 
Page 11 
., 

The Sound Room's Stereo Buying Guide 




Advent's Video Beam TV 
The first time you see Advent's 6 foot
Ufe-size l-:ot()r 1·v for the Home. television, you won't be able to keep your eyes off it. You'll really be seeing TV as spectacular as it can be; life size, bright and bold. Imagine a color TV picture with a picture area more than 15 times larger than that of the picture most people watch at home. You can enjoy this 6 foot TV picture right in your family room or living room. 
Advent's Video Beam TV is a two-piece set. The console unit (about the size of an end table) projects a bold, bright picture to a separate screen. It's as easy to operate as your standard TV set. You can also use it with a video cassette player or the new TV games. Come in and see how amazing big picture television can be! • 
Advent's special three tube projection 

• system separately pro­. jects each of three colors (red, green, blue) to converge on the screen as a big, bright, bold full color 
. picture. 
The Advent Video Beam is available in our Kalamazoo and South Bend stores. 

r~akamichi And l\tDSUnveil The World's Finest High Fidelity Car Stereo System ... Only $749.00 
When you hear the performance of this car stereo system, it will destroy any notion you might have that true high fi.delity isn't possible in a car. The Nakamlchi 250 cassette player is not a typical car cassette machine. Rather, it is a true component grade, high quality playback deck with mechanical and electrical excellence that separates it from all other automobile cassette players. The 250 features a DC servo-controlled motor, crystal permalloy head, Dolby, and a built-in pre­amplifier with volume, balance and tone controls. • 
The Nakamichi 250 plays back through a pair of ADS 2002 40 watt RMS bi-amplified speaker systems. In terms of musical accuracy, the ADS 2002 is the equal of monitor speakers many times its size and price. The 2002 employs a super long excursion 4 inch woofer and a 1 inch soft dome acoustic suspension tweeter. ADS engineering breakthroughs have AOS with new engineering has put the amplifiers in the speaker cabinet. made it possible to build the amplifiers into You needn't find a place for a bulky amplifier.
each speaker, so you don't have to find a 

place for them. 

We think you'll be as impressed as we were when you put this system in your car. It's fantastic! 

Page 12 · Special thanks go to: Rogt!r'Prl~be, Dave Sims-& Tom Krol-Graphic Communications, PrlntCo, Jim Powell-Photo Design, and Gary Meek-The Sound Room 
.---------------------------------·---------------------------------------.~------.-------------~--------~-.----------~..................~............~ 
Wednesday, November 2, 197'1 
the observer 
5 

At the Gospel Show 

group which a spokesman described as "concerned Christians" had begun to assemble in front of the ACC's main entrance. The 35 or so that congregated 
sang hymns and glanced about apprehensively, evidently poised for some sort of confrontation with the gay rights group which had vowed to demonstrate in Before last spring, an appearance by protest of Bryant's appearance. They also Anita Bryant was not an event that would carried signs which bore slogans such as have been likely to spark a great deal of "Gay is not the way," "Sodom and local interest anywhere, much less any Gomorah was made an example," kind of protest march. Her audiences were "Nothing effeminate will enter into customarily treated to what was by county heaven'' and an assortment of others 

fair standards a wholesome mixture of which alerted spectators that Christ's gospel and country music, a show which coming was imminent. It did actually seem stirred no one to carry placards, hurl pies, for a time that no homosexuals or their or turn to tomato juice for breakfast. But supporters would fulfill their pledge to 
Tom B!Jrne 


tBurn, burn, burn forever...' 
since her notorious campaign to repeal a appear, and expressions of relief were homosexual rights ordinance in Miami last detectable on the faces of the "Concerned June, she has been followed virtually Christians." everywhere by determined gay rights They were abruptly dismayed, however, sympathizers insistent upon reenacting the by the sight of some 250 gay rights Battle of Dade County at each of her stops. demonstrators marching solemnly towards Bryant's appearance in the ACC last them, to the amusement of a small group of Thursday night was no exception, as most Notre Dame students who had come to of the entertainment was provided by watch the spectacle. . protestors and supporters of the singer At first stunned by the size of the gay who gathered outside before her forces, Bryant's supporters regrouped and performance. resumed singing. One of their leaders then 
As early as an hour before the concert, a launched into a vigorous harangue on the evils of homosexuality, condemning the gay group as "wicked" and guaranteeing that they would be denied entry into heaven. After a ten-minute tirade on this point at the top of his lungs. he was relieved by a second orator who stressed the same theme, but delivered it with a more direct style. "Burn, burn, burn forever,'' he secreamed at the marchers, promising them a soaking in "a lake of fire" and adding that "all sex outside marriage is filthy." The two exhorted the 
marchers throughout the 25-minute demonstrations, but did not appear to win 
any converts. 

Despite the verbal assaults of the preachers, plus some abuse from passing cars (''The only good faggot is a dead faggot!"), the gay rights group remained remarkably passive, as they paraded in a large circle outside the ACC. The marchers, members of the Michiana Coalition for Human Rights, brought their own signs which declared, among other things, that "Gay is not a sickness," and urged onlookers to "Fight for human rights." The protestors themselves were ·Of all ages, sizes and shapes, and apparently both sexes. Many were costumed bizarrely and held hands as they marched before local TV cameras. True to the group;s pledge, no one was impeded from entering the concert and just before its scheduled start, the protestors retired as peacefully as they had arrived. 
Inside the ACC, the 600 spectators who attended found Anita Bryant's show to consist of traditional gospel music inter­spersed with heavy doses of sermon. The concert, or in Bryant's words, "The service," began with an introduction by Rev. Roy Anderson, the local minister who had arranged for the singer to come to South Bend. Before the actual introduction, he . sang· the praises of Bryant's latest book, which he assured the audience would tell the ''true story'' of the singer's struggle against "militant homosexuality," for only seven dollars. Bryant later referred to Anderson as a man of "guts," and exclaimed. "We need more men like him in America." Of her book, she explained, "I didn't want to write it, but God spoke to my heart." 
The most notable aspect of Bryant's petformance was her lengthy remarks between songs, as her music was apparently designed to give emphasis to her comments on religion and American life. She told her audience that she was considered to be a religious prodigy when at age eight she announced to her parents 
that she was "born again'' in Christ. "I was raised loving God and loving my country," she said, crediting her devotion to her early training in her home, school and church. She also lamented the "problems with our young people," blaming them on a failure to "accept God's plan for salvation." 
The singer also demonstrated her tendency to offer amateurish scientific theories in support of her views. The most celebrated example of this was during last June, when TIME quoted her as saying, "The male homosexual eats another man's sperm. Sperm is the most highly concentrated form of blood. The homo­sexual is eating life." In the ACC she avoided biology and ventured instead into the field of sociology. Citing statistics on rising divorce rates and increasing indul­gence in pre-marital sex, she attributed these problems to a lack of "Bible morality.'' 
"We need answers," she declared. "And we don't need to talk to man." 
It is in Bryant's emotional conclusion to her one-hour performance that the motivation behind her campaign against homosexuals emerged a bit more clearly. As she tearfully recounted her personal crisis with twins born dangerously pre­mature and urged her listeners to always care for their children, it was evident that she was not driven "''nto action by some seething hatred for homosexuals. Her decisions to oppose the gays seems rather to have been rooted in her sincere belief that homosexuals and other agents of what she views as moral decadence represented 
, a serious threat to the well-being of her children. Her desperate message to her audiences is perhaps best expressed in the title of her campaign: "Save Our Children." 
But regardless of her motivation, Bryant's clash with the gay movement seems like some type of caricature of life in America, considering the almost comical contrast between homosexuals and Biblical fundamentalists. In a bitterly ironic twist, ­it may be that Bryant will stand historically as one of the most significant figures in the gay movement, as her conflict with the gays has supposedly provoked many of them to emerge from "the closet." She appears to be losing her battle with the gays, as her income reportedly has fallen substantially and the orange growers have recently indicated that she will not likely continue as their spokesperson. If she does actually retreat, promoters of homosexual rights may discover that they have lost one . of their biggest assets. 


Looking for Mr. Goodbar and Mary Beckman 


Fr. Bill Toohe!J 


Hundreds of Notre Dame people were taking in two movies over this fall break, "Looking for Mr. Goodbar" and "Oh, God." There were interesting connections with Notre-Dame in both. In "Goodbar," Diane Keaton's father wears a N.D. jacket around the house; and in one scene Keaton gives vent to her rage over jock adulation: "I hte all sports, and especially Notre 
Dame football!" 
"Oh, God" (an expression, coinci­dentally, that Keaton is apt to use at org~.:;tic moments) is quite a different sort of film. obviously, with its delightful and refreshing positive message. In this movie. the Notre Dame connection is strictly accidental (but no less striking): at one point, God appears as a groundskeeper! 
Mary Beckman will forgive me, I know, if I say that "Goodbar" reminded me of her. · It was the contrast that did it. Mary, who graduated from Notre Dame two years ago, also works as a single person in a big city; she's assistant director of the Social Action department of Catholic Charities in Brooklyn. 
Mary Beckman has been on campus these past few days, attending the annual CCUM conference. I was curious to learn what has been happening to her over the past year or so; why such a beautiful and talented young woman would be wiiiing to sacrifice other opportunities in order to dedicate herself to service in the church; and, especially, what insights she has discovered through her involvement in social action. 
We got off on that strange, puzzling gospel text, where Jesus talks about the necessity of his followers turning their backs on father and mother; and the other occasion when He said He came to bring, not peace, but division. Mary revealed how she has learned that Jesus . was emphasizing the basic truth that division m_ust exist within families. She cited young people's decreasing acceptanl:e of parental values, splintering of traditional nuclear­family life styles, the O:':,"•;r,;, " •al revolution, and the continual generation gap, as causes of this type of division. 
And then she spoke very personally of her own situation. "I think of the divisions · within my own family," she said. "I have chosen somewhat different values and life 
style than my parents. My attitudes toward them are tinged with rejection of their life of comfort and Dad's participation in a powerful multinational corporation. While I see the growth my parents have experienced through the Charismatic Movement, I remind them that social justice, a constitutive element of the gospel, means more than writing an occasional letter to a congressperson about pornography.'' 
Mary talked about the emotionally­charged discussions she has with her family: "My parents say, 'Anita Bryant is doing the Christian thing. We don't want yout little sister to be taught by homo­sexuals.' I counter: 'I think the issue is one of human rights. How can we legislate that certain people are discriminated against? Teachers doing the hiring can still c;letermine competences.' My parents come back: 'We spend too much money on welfare.· And I answer: 'But according to the Campaign for Human Development, ouly 37 per cent of poor Americans recieve any assistance, . and that assistance prnvi<les f~·~ -. diet grossly lacking.' This kind of discussion goes back and forth, including every topic from foreign aid to do I ever consider getting married and raising a family or finding a job which is more practical and secure than working for the Church." 
Mary paused and became very thoughtful. "It's really paradoxical, isn't it? Jesus indicates that for real peace and unity to come about, division must exist, and we are asked to grapple with it. The persistent struggle with conflict and division," she continued, "is creative: it provides openings for conversion--a change of heart--and a deepened under­standing of Christ's message, ultimately bringing us together as kingdom of God." 
I asked Mary if she could see any of this verified in her relationship with her own parents. "Yes, I believe so," she answered. "It's not a comfortable teaching, but Jesus tells us that we must be willing to turn away even from family, if that's what it takes to respond to His call. When our struggles are not creative, we must know when to shake the dust from our feet and make that terrible choice to let go of even those we care for the most. 
''Though we are tempted at times, due to frustration and hurt, to cop-out of the battle, my parents and I will continue to struggle over our differences. We are committed to that struggle because we have seen its creativity, which has been reflected in deepening love and changes of attitude. But we also know that we have to be willing to let go of each other, and that the letting go would not mean that we loved less." 
~....~....................~--------------------~------------------------------------------------~·--------------­
6 the Observer Wednesday, November_ 2, __ 1977 
Britain foresees an improvement in economy 
LONDON [AP] --Britain freed the pound sterling from its weaken ing dollar anchor yesterday and let it float up to its own value on world money markets. The move immediately raised living costs for Americans and other foreigners in Britain, but it promised less infla­tion for Britons. 
The value of the British currency quickly rose by about 3.5 per cent against the dollar, from Friday's rate of $1.777 for one pound to $1.8400. 
The rising pound reflected growing international optimism about Britain's economic future. A 

This tarnishing ship of commerce has seen better days when prices were low and inflation was slow. [photo by leo Hansen) 
year ago, while the pound hovered below !1.60, the outlook appeared extremely bleak. 
Many in the financial world had 
considered the pound undervalued. This belief grew stronger in recent months as revenues from North Sea oil and gas began flowing in and the British balance of payments improved. For the first time in years Britain was earning more abroad than it was spending. 
The strengthening pound does not necessarily mean abrupt changes in prices for goods or 
Belgian prof holds seminar 
Belgian Professor Karel Dobbelaere is visiting Notre Dame this week to conduct a seminar on secularization and deliver a lecture on the future of Catholic universi­ties. Both events are open to the public. 
The seminar, "Trends in Secu­larization: Studies, Problems and Fads!", will be held this afternoon at 3:30 in the Memorial Library Lounge. Dobbelaere's talk will be preceded at 2 p.m. by a discussion of Scientists and the Book of Genesis" by Eileen Barker of the London School of Economics. Both are co:sponsored by the De­partments of Theology, Sociology 

And we can offer outstanding career opportunities in Marketing, Engineering or Computer Science. 
We will be interviewing at 
The University of Notre Dame on November 15, 1977. 
To find out about IBM and let us find out about you, sign up for an interview at the Placement Office or write to: I. C. Pfeiffer, College Relations Manager, IBM Corporation, One IBM Plaza, Chicago, Illinois 60611. 
=~=-:r=® 
An Equal Opportunity/ Affirmative Action Employer 
.. 

·.• ·.· ......... ·. ......... · .........·
··­
services. But it will mean that an American tourist, for example, is getting fewer pounds for his dollars. 
A hotel room that cost 20 pounds a night last week may still cost 20 pounds, but the American will be paying $36.80, instead of $35.40. 
The revaluation brightened the outlook for the average British family, though it may take months for the effect to filter down to the neighborhood shop. 
The cost of imports, whether raw 


and Philosophy. 
At 8 p.m. tomorrow in the Library Auditorium, Dobbelaere will offer his "Reflections on the Catholic Character of Catholic Uni­versities: Do they Have a Future?" 
Among the five books Dobbel­aere has written is a study· of the Catholic character of a University, published in 1977. He-is professor of sociology of religion at the Catholic ; University of Leuven, Belgium and professor of sociologi­cal research at the University of Antwerp. Last spring, he was a visiting fellow of All Souls College, Oxford. 
NOTICES 
1 • 
NEED QUALITY TYPING? Executary, Inc., Professional Typing Services IBM 
I Correcting Selectrics. 85 cents per page minimum. Call 232-0898, "When you want the best." 
I Accurate Fast typing. Mrs. Donoho, 232-0746. Hours, 8 am to 6 pm.
I
I Typing, Reasonable rates. Call 8051. 

I Over 65 and handicapped? WE NEED I 
I 
TO HEAR FROM YOU! Call 234-8190 to complete a short confidential survey on transportation needs In St. Joseph Coun­ty. (The Task force on specialized transportation.) 
I 
I 
I 
School of Self suficiency and learning. A small two week live in course, coveringI the basic arts and crafts of your ancestors combined with modern tech­nology relevant to food, shelter and energy. Setting is on tranquil MissouriI farm. Taught by a leading survival and self-sufficiency expert with 35 yearsI experience throughout the world. Write Self sufficiency, Rt 6, box 85, Festus, Mo. 
63028. 

I "We're OK, You're OK" gay commu­1 nity guide to ND-SB -$1.00, Pandora's or box 206, ND. 
I Gay community of NO lnfoline. Fri. and1 Sat. 10-12 pm. 8870. 
I 
ATIENTION ALL SENIORS: NominateI your choice for senior class Fellow today thru Fri., Nov. 5. 
I 
I FOR SALE 
1 FOR SALE: Pioneer 300 receiver. Cheap. Call 8636 after 7.
1 
I Gibson L6-S, 2 Super Humb. Perfect Cond., make offer. Aslo, EnsenadaI acoustic guitar, $40. zgibson Gss100 Amp. 100 w$100, Ampreg 2-15" Bottom,I $100, Armstrong flute, $40. All in good condition. Call Mike, 289-6468. 
I 
I 
I 
I 
Pandora's Books is having a big, store wide sale. All used books are 50 percent off and selected new books (including The Simarilllon) are 25 percent off. Its time for early Christmas shopping or books for classes. zwe have many, many ND 
books. Phone 233-2342, 937 South BendI Ave. 
I 1974 Fiat Spider, Converted; 26,000 miles, mint condition. $2850. 
I FOR SALE: Name brand Stereo and 


I 
I 
Television at prices you can afford. Manufacturers warranty_ Call 291-5843 evenings. 
I 
For Sale: 2 Georgia Tech GA tickets. 
Best offer call 1052. 

I 
I 
I WHY PAY MORE?? Flanner records has all $6.98 list LP's only $4.50. All $7.98 LP's only $5.29. Over 400 albums in stock. Phone orders accepted. Flanner records, Phone 2741. Hours, M-Th 4-5. 1
6:3(}-8:. Sunday, 2-2:30. 
USC-UCLA Sportswear for sale. Come \and browse -326 Morr -ask for Kevin . 

·..·· .· ..... , 
... '~-------·­
materials or consumer goods, will 
fall because a stronger pound will buy moire. One business group predicted that a 5 per cent rise in the pound would mean a one per cent price decline over six to nine months. 
About the only Britons bene­fiting immediately were vacation­ers abroad who suddenly found their pounds worth more in the local currency. 
But British industry could be hurt because British exports will be more and therefore less Wednesday, November 2, 1977 

the observer 
MANAGEMENT POSITIONS AVAILABLE FOR COLLEGE MEN AND WOMEN WHO WANT TO LEAD 
IF YOU'RE GOING TO BE SOMETHING WHY NOT BE SOMETHING SPECIAL. 
THE NAVY OFFICER CANDIDATE SCHOOL 

ATTENTI.ON JUNIORS. Need three student or GA tickets. $$$. \ 
Dec. 31s adate to remember. NO and Call1618 SMC's Christm~s Ball will be held in the · Need 2 GA Georgia Tech Tickets. Call Century Centers Great Hall. ~o. set your Need 2 to 4 GA and 1 student ticket for Mary, 4786. date to catch your da.te. zdon t h~s1tate, Georgia Tech. Call 288-0088. -----------­
there's no need to wa1t! Any questions or Need GA tickets to Georgia Tech game. 
------------------------~--------------------,
Classlifiled adS I 
volunteers to help, call: Lynne, 4-4476, Wanted: 2 GA tickets for Georgia Tech. Pay good$$$$$. Call Dennis 2120. I Kathy, 4-5111 or Marme. 2-6976. Call Tom at 3693. For sale-Pioneer Receiver Model SX 737. FOUND: near grotto: One combination ------------EXTRA MONEY! If you've ver sold I
EXPERIENCED MINSTRELS FOR HIRE 
GA's and student tickets to Georgia Tech. anything before, call now! We need IGreat Condition. Call 8320 lock manufactured by presto Inc. If Serenading a specialty. Also, Custom Mick 2743 or Ern, 1750. HELP!!!!! qualified people to sell advertising in our yours. call1772. songwritng. Call RINGO AND JESTER offices year round. Good voice and 
FLANNER RECORDS ALBUM SPE­8243. 
Need 2 GA or student tickets for Georgia diction required. Top commissions, I CIALS: Week of Oct. 31. These $7.98 List LOST: Silver polarized sunglasses in the Tech. Call Carl 272-4478 after 6. relaxed atmosphere, 6 hours per day. I 
LP's only $4.99 (plus tax).: CSN. Crosby mens locker room at the Rockne Mem­Cicely is coming! Nov. 8, 7:30. O'Laugh­Call Mr. Allis, 683-2403. Stills and Nash. Book of Dreams, Steve orial on Thurs., Oct. 13th. If found, lin Aud. 
Need 1, only 1, GA ticket for GeorgiaMiller, Rumours, Fleetwood Mac, The please call 3716 or return them to 902 Tech. Help me keep a friend. Call Steve Yes I still need at least 4 Georgia Tech I 
Grand lllusiom. Styx, Point of Know Flanner. · Thank you for asking us trick or treating 8998. GA tickets. Call anytime!Return(new) Kansas, Foreigner, For­Bruce' eigner, Chicago XI, Chicago, Going for LOST: Wire rim glasses. If found call Bruce Wanted: Babysitter for 3 year old boy, WANTED: One student Georgia Tech 1 the One. Yes. JT. James Taylor, Little 8036 after 7. Tuesday and Thursday from 12:45 till ticket. Guy: 289-9351. Queen. Heart. Flanner Records, 322 Thanks for helping me with my drawers 4:15 pm. (if possible, 9:30 till 5 pm.) 1 
PERSONALS
Flanner. Phone 2741. Hours, 4-5, 6:30-8 on Halloween Bruce. 
Near Campus -232-9541. Need 2 Air Force tickets. Please call I 
M·F. Sale ends Friday, 11-4. Bruce I
4-5181.

RALPH HAS KLEINFELTERS SYN­
I need one student ticket to Georgia Tech.
DROME 

Money is no object. Call Russ at 8772. Wanted: 1 season basketball ticket. Will IFOR RENT 
T.S. PAINTER 
pay$$$. Please Call 4-5181.
WANTED 
Dear Brownie Boys, Need 5 GA tix for Georgia Tech. Call Jim Dick the Bruiser is coming Saturday and IAttic room for rent. $10 weekly. 310 W. 
Thanks! 8708. if I don't get two GA tickets for the
Navarre St. S.B. 287-0853. Need two GA Georgia Tech tickets. Call 
XXXOOO. mez$ Georgia Tech game he's going to attach I
Kevin 8713. 

NO-St. Mary's students night work. my face to the dome. Call1244.
APARTMENT FOR RENT-Fabulous one 
of a kind townhouse on the river in To enter the Junior Class T-Shirt Design Need urgently 2 GA tickets to Georgia Nicolas Rest. 809 N. Michigan St. Part Elkhart. Sunken living room, fireplace, contest contact Sally Platt (1296) or Bruce Tech game. Phone Chris:1158. time or full time. Hourly pay -Help!! Need three GA tickets for Georgia 1 swimming pool, sunken red Japanese McCaffery (3321). $20 prize for the best Waitresses, busboys, pizza makers, Tech! Call Rocco 1386. 1
dishwasher. Apply in person. Nicola'ssoaking tub, dishwasher, laundry equip­design. Contest ends Nov. 4. Needed: 2GA tickets Georgia Tech. Call 
ment in each unit, winding staircase, Betsy 4-4184. Restaurant. Need one Georgia Tech ticket. Call Bill I HAPPY HOUR AT PINOCCHIO'S PIZZA 8792.
some with skylight. Leases conform to school year. Nothing like it anywhere! PARLOR 4-7 pm Man-Thurs. 2pitchers Addressers wanted immediately! Work Wanted: 2 female students to sublet I 
the price of one! Georgetown plaza, campus view apt. Call Kathy, 6781. 36-24-36, sell me your air force tix. One
294-2151. at home --no experience necessary -­
1

Emmons Rd. (4 mins from Juniper excellent pay. Write American Service, student, two GA. Sue 4798. circle). 8350 Park Lane, Suite 269, Dallas Tx, 
TYPIST WANTED Full Time, to typesetLOST AND FOUND 
display advertising, Monday and Wed· Wanted: 1 GA or student tix. Georgia Ralph does funny things to Homozygous nesday thru Sat. afternoons and-or Tech. Big Bucks. Mark, 8514. I
75231. 

LOST: One Sr50A Calculator in Wash­
evenings. Hourly pay. Experiencerecessive Drosophilia. Need 2 GA Georgia Tech tix. Call Mark
ington Hall during Organic Lab exam 
helpful, but not necessary. Apply in Need GA Georgia Tech Tickets. Call ·I
at 1409.

before break. Please Call Pat 1208. No Kliglib, person at :The Penny Saver, 2102 S. 8372. 8369. Iquestions. 
Alcatraz is up for grabs -wanna buy it Need 4 GA tickets to Georgia Tech Air Michigan St., South Bend, 21111-1411. Need $$$$: Sell me 5 ND-AirForce GA
for our own? Wish you'd been there! I Force games. Wilf pay top !. Call Pat or 1 
left my heart on the oipposite coast. . Ed at 8377 or 8378. Wanted: 2 or 4 GA Georgia Tech tix. tickets. Love, Klig PLEASE! Call Ann, 6859. 
LOST: Student football ticket, section 29, Need one student or GA Georgia Tech 
Join the North Quad Stud Watching ticket. Call Ken a~ 1772. Desperately need 2 Geo. Tech GA tix. 
row 35, seat 11. Athletic Dept. has been Society. Call Maria Mirto (1318) or Julie Call 288-8235.
notified. Please return. Call Maureen, 
6856. Wehner (1705). Need Georgia Tech tixs. Prefereably Your parents cannot make it to the
student. Call 288-8417. 
Anyone desiring beautiful color photos of Georgia Tech Game? How about selling
LOST: An N D Monogram jacket in North 
the USC game should contact Doug at me their tickets. Call Geoff at 1083
Dining Hall. I really need it now that the Need GA tickets for Georgia Tech. Call 
8982-318 Zahm. anytime and keep trying.
wi. ·.er is here. There is a reward for its Chris, 8336. return. Dave, 2216. 
PLEASE HELP!! Need three GA or
Jim Morse does it with dead baby Need ride to and from Pittsbugh at 
chickens. Studer.! tickets for Georgia Tech. Call
LOST: During break, blue manilla folder Thanksgiving. Call 1581. 
Rosie between 12 and 2 pm.
witt". nterview material in it. Call Pat. 234-1774. 
SUE GRADY!! Need GA Tech GA's. Please call Helen,OOOPS! Not having your classy Boston 7260. background. we missed your special day­Rosies number is 1291.
FOUND: USC night, small coverless "' 
hope it was super! Love, Mare I, Maria,adress book at NO and Angela Blvd. Call Donna, MB, Claire, Mare II.
Pat, 234-1774. 
LOST: Gold charm bracelet at USC game. Reward. Call collect 312-679-4553. 
the observer Wednesday, November 2, 1977 
Irish leers dealt opening series loss 
by ChJp Scanlon the season opener. 
at a 3-1 deficit.

Sports Writer Senior center Geoff Collier put Don Jackson took things into his the Irish ahead with just 7:00 left in own hands at 14:50 when he flewThe Notre Dame hockey team the game as he broke down the down the left wing and let a bigfound the going rough last week­right side, faked a slap shot and slap shot go at the blueline to beatend as they dropped two games to drew the puck back to whistle a freshman Tom Frame to the padthe Colorado College Tigers, 4-2, shot by Mort's left side. Steve side high. 
6-4. Despite a good effort on Schneider and Don Jackson drew The Tigers wouldn't let up on theFriday night the Irish were unable assists on the play and it looked like Irish defense which broke down into overcome the blow of a whistle a happy finish to the opening game the period and Pracht sailed around and the bounce of the puck as a 2-1 of the Irish icers tenth season. 
the defense to score on a partiallead slipped away in the waning But at 16:06 Rick Pracht broke breakaway on Len Moher at 16:53. 
minutes of the game. Saturday down the Irish right wing and Terry mistakes in their own end cost the Fairholm skated back to bother 
Nugent scored his second of the Irish four goals in the second Pracht. Pracht sensed the chance night when Don Fairholm missed a period as the Tigers jumped out to to put his team on the power play breakaway and then fed Nugent the a 5-J advantage. rebound at 17:02. But freshman
and did just that as he fell to the ice 
"'Naturally were disappointed and Terry Fairholm was called for Greg Whyte tipped one in to coming out of Colorado with two interference. The Tigers un­rebuild the Tigers' two goal lead. 
losses." concedes Irish Head leashed their power play unit and 
Ted Robinson =========:=========;=;=;=~=~=~=~=============================================================================
Coach Lefty Smith. "We played 1:16 after Terry Fairholm went off well Friday night but the hot Dave Delich, the league's fifth 
goaltending of Vern Mott was a big leading scorer last season, showed factor in our demise. We took a considerable number of shots at him and just couldn't dent his armor," notes Smith. 
The Irish took a considerable number of shots indeed, 42 to be exact as Mott kept the Irish at bay with a hot glove hand. After a period of hockey where the Irish at 
A'& 
bay with a hot glove hand. After a period of hockey where both clubs how effective his shot from 


the II!: 
proceeded to play cautious hockey point can be once again as he beat ~tlfli#J/ ' ,, 
Dave Delich beat Irish netter John Peterson for his second goal of the Peterson on a screaming shot from game.the point as Colorado enjoyed a Then at 18:25 Colorado jumped power play at 6:56 of the second ahead as the puck took a weird period. bounce off the boards and came out 
That was the cue the lrishnecded 20 feet in front of a surprised Irish as sophomore winger Tom Micha­netter Peterson and Curt Christof­lek put a shot by Mott at the 17~19 ferson beat Peterson high to the 
mark, tipping in one of co-captain glove side. With Smith opting for Dick Howe's drives from the point the extra attacker Christofferson to tie the game after two periods of 
ty net goal with one click 
Monte Towle Behind Closed Doors 
Double Dealing 
Here's a coincidence. Last Saturday, the University .of Minnesota Gophers upset the Wolverines of Michigan, 16-0, in t~e colleg¢fl*itball surprise of the season. And theri, lo and behold, it was JUSt ~wo daysla~er that the University of Minnesota fina\Iy declared a patr of 1ts basketball stars, Michael Thompson and David Winey. ineligible for the lJ.pCO!ning 
·season. Their reason? ...probably to allow its now 'great' footballte~m the right to play in a bowl game at the end of the season; .. . . .. 
You see. the NCAA infractions ~ommittee had slapped Minnesota with an indefinite probation of last year because they defied the ~91\A in continuing to allow Thompson and Winey to participate in j)asketpall games when the NCAA had demanded otherwise. That. Pt~ba.tion included preventing the f9otball team from bowl partidp~tiorH ··. ••· < ... According to a UPI wire story last week, "The university had ~Iteady accepted NCAA probation for the Minnesota basketball. team ftqm Mllr~h 
4. 1976 to March 4,1978, because of NCAA charges of 99 violations by various people in the 1971-75 coaching era of Bill Musselman. Thomps()n ~nd Winey were among those involved. But the University As~mbly Committee on Intercollegiate Athletics had refused a demand (from the NCAA) to declare Thompson and Winey ineligible on the groundS they didn't get due process hearings. 
Thus, the University of Minnesota continued' to play winning basketball with Thompson and Winey last winter although they had to sacrifice their good NCAA status for all of their intercollegiate sports in the process. One might think that's a small price to pay for basketball stardom as Thompson and Winey are both 6-10 and two of the best basketball play<.·rs in the Big Ten Conference. Thompson has even been mentioned on several All-American teams. But as soon as the Minnesota football team defeared Michigan last week, the University's attitude changed: 
Now that Minnesota was S-2 and ranked in the nation's Top 2{), their chances of a post·season bowl bid crept doser to realization although I, mvself wouldn't count on the Gophers being a major factot" in the bowl picture. Minnesota, though, must have seen dollar signs and bowlglory after the victory over Michigan when they saw the feasibility of declaring Thompson and Winey ineligible in hope that the NCAA w()Uld lift the indefinite probation on all university intercollegiate teams. 
Will the NCAA lift this blanket probation from the University of Minnesota? NCAA Public Relations Director Dave Cawood stated t() me that, "Minnesota has now fulfilled its obligations by dedal,'ing. th¢ two players ineligible. It's now up to-our infractions committee to determine when they will lift the indefinite probation." . 
When asked if it is standard procedure for the NCAA to penillize asi;bool with an indefinite probation of all its intercollegiate sports for such a violation, Cawood declared, "No, this is not our normal procedure. But then. it's abnormal for a school not to fulfill its obligations to the NCAA." 
Minnesota had gone a year without fulfilling its obligations. 
It would appear as though the University of Minnesota is actually manipulating the NCAA punishment to serve its own interests at a given time. Had Michigan defeated Minnesota in that football game, I would be willing to wagt>r megabucks that Thompson and Winey would still be members of the Gopher basketball team and the NCAA i;ldcfinite probation would remain in effect for some time to come. It. migh~ be interesting to see w)lat would happen should the NCAA mfracttoilf.,~ committee decide NOT to do away with the indefinite suspenison anyway. 
Minnesota has appealed to the NCAA cligibilit~committee to actually consider a prompt restoration of Thompson's and Winey's eligibility as . players. From Minnesota's point of view, that would solve everything. 
'·A member school can mak,e appeals to the eligibility committee of the NCAA for reinstating players," Cawood explains. "however. the eligibility committee relies heavily on the infractions committee in rendering its final decision_.'' 
Good luck. Minnesota ...You'll need it. 

KEVIN NUGENT 
left on the clock. 
"I thought John Peterson had an excellent game in the nets,'' ac­claimed Smith after the game. Peterson finished with 26 saves and shared the defensive honors with freshman blueliner Don Lucia who saw regular action while paired with senior Dan Byers. "Lucia handled himself quite well in his first WCHA game," noted Smith. 
With revenge in mind the Irish entered the Broadmoor World Are­na but it just wasn't to be. Dave Feamster struck first for the Tigers at 7:05 but the Irish got it back when Kevin Nugent struck on the power play for Notre Dame. 
Jackson and Collier assisted on the play and the period ended tied. 
The  Irish  specialty  units  let  
down,  though,· in  the  middle  
period  when  hatchet  man  Dean  

Magee scored a power play goal and then Jim Kronschnabel scored a short handed goal to put the Irish 
*Observer 


Sports 
Soccer game this afternoon 
The Notre Dame soccer team faces Valparaiso this afternoon at 4 
p.m. behind Stepan Center. The hooters are seeking their 13th consecutive victory. 
1-H All-Star game set for tonight 
Tonight on the astroturf at Cartier Field, the second annual men's all-star interhall football game will take place. The game matches the North Quad interhall all-stars against the all-stars from the South Quad. Last year the North Quad defeated the South Quad by a score of 27-19. 
Doctor Jim Catbf"tT)', the South Quad coach has seven returning all-stars from last yen's squad as does coach Phil Volpe of the North Quad. The players are chosen from the various interhall teams by the interhall coaches. Each hall, including off-campus is reP.resented by at least one player. 
According to Phil Volpe the game should be exciting because "being an all-star game you have a group of quality football players who are out to have a good time.'' Game time is set for 6:45 p.m. 
Larry Soltyvedt scored at 4:54 of 
the third to bring the score to 6-3 
before Terry Fairholm tipped in a 
shot at 16:52. 
"Overall I was impressed with the work ofthe kids," notes Smith. "We have to improve our specialty units where we gave Colorado three power play goals and on short handed." Our play was improved since our series with Duluth and if we can continue to improve we'll 
give Michigan a good series this 
weekend." 
The Irish host the number-one ranked Michigan Wolverines this weekend with face-off scheduled for 8:00 p.m. EST. 

Irish Items 
=================:=::::;::===:===~=~==========::::=:========:~=:=:=====:=============:=======:GJads make good 
Item: WCHA Refs May Have Long Season 
The scene wasn't surprising to anyone. Notre Dame defenseman Dan Byers was parked in front of his own goal with his gloves and stick dropped to the ice. Colorado College forward Dean Magee stood five feet away waving his stick in Byers' face with an obvious desire to perform plastic surgery. It was the culmination of a weekend in which the WCHA learned that Colorado College will live up to its reputation as the most 
aggressive hockey team in the league. 
The only problem with CC's aggressiveness is that most of their antics do not fall within the rules of the game of hockey. For the past few years, visiting teams have entered Colorado Springs apprehensively, knowing that the prospects of brawls are clear and present. Notre Dame went to 
Colorado last week with those same thoughts in mind. 
Friday night's contest upheld the Irish fears. There were 14 penalties whistled, but only two for infractions resulting from aggressive play (cross-checking, elbowing, roughing, slashing). The numbers Saturday nig/lt were much different. 12 of the 17 Saturday penalties fell into the aggressive play category. 
This inconsistency in officiating has plagued the WCHA for years and will continue to unless it is rectified. No one pretends that hockey is a gentle sport or a non-contact game. On the other hand, hockey is not roller derby. The medium must be determined by the officiating. And their primary concern should be that each team is entitled to play its style of hockey. 
Friday night, Notre Dame was unable to play hockey because they were constantly dodging sticks and elbows at face level. Colorado College seemed content to play the man and not the puck. Three Irish skaters suffered head injuries in the game, yet the referees chose to ignore the blatant physical play in favor of interference and holding at center ice. The result is that Colorado can get away with murder in the corners, yet gain power plays on dubious penalties called in the neutral zone. 
Clearly, the WCHA will begin to suffer the same problem which befell the NHL a few years ago. Namely, it is the problem of curbing the violent aspect of the game. Aggressiveness is fine if practiced within the rules. And Colorado College isn't the only team guilty of these tactics, all teams have their lapses. It's just that CC makes a constant practice of it. 
The answer to the problem lies in the officiating. And the WCHA should have an advantage with their two-official system. Somehow, the two refs have a way of becoming ineffective in their attempts to work together. The NHL has managed to conquer their problems with one referee and strict disciplinary measures. The WCHA has equally strict disciplinary measures for fighting. Now, they need the refs to stop the play that leads to the fights. 
Item: Brownschidle Early Success Among Irish In The Pros 
Former Irish defenseman Jack Brownschidle has been a pleasant surprise in the early season failures of the St. Louis Blues. St. Louis Coach Leo Boivin was hesitant about Jack's chances before the season began, but his tune has changed to the point where Brownschidle is now skating a regular shift. 
Brian Walsh, last year's MVP in the WCHA, is currently in Boston hospital after undergoing a spinal fusion. Dukie had an impressive training camp with the Boston Bruins and was thought to have had an , xcellent chance of staying with the varsity. 
Clark Hamilton, Irish left wing for the past four seasons, is now playing for the Kansas City team in the Central Hockey League. Kansas City is the top farm team of the Detroit Red Wings. 
Jrem: Knight and Hunter Also Doing Well In the Pros . . 
Toby Knight is making big news in New York where he ts perfor~III:g ,, dl for the Knicks. Toby was given a no-cut contract by Co~ch Will!s Reed after an impressive rookie camp, and he has contmued hts improvement by averaging 14 points a game in the Knicks' first four contests. 
Meanwhile AI Hunter scored his first pro touchdown for the Seattle Seahawks Su~day against Buffalo. AI, who ranks ninth in _the A~C in kickoff returns, carried 11 times for 56 yards in his first extenstve actton of 
:1e year. 

!! :m: Norton and Young Fight Saturday Ken Norton and Jimmy Young meet Saturday night in what is termed as 
a ''Heavyweight Elimination Bout.'' What that means is that the winner ·11 be offered a shot at Muhammad Ali. Whether Ali accepts the bout is )in the air. Everyone in the Ali camp is calling for Muhammad to hang 
."up, but Ali likes money. Who knows, maybe he could reach back for one · tst great fight? Anyway, Norton should have little trouble disposing of . oung. Norton is a smarter fighter than George Foreman, and Young 
won't be able to finesse his way past ken. 
Joke of the Week: Richie Zisk Makes Himself Available for Friday's Re-Entry Draft 
' According to White Sox Owner Bill Veeck, Zisk asked for an $800,000 a year contract. Veeck found that humorous, with good reason. Six players ·,,the AL hit more homers than Zisk this year, and 10 had more RBI's. Also, Zisk could win a Dave Kingman look-alike contest with the glove in 
•e outfield. Wonder what Jimmy the Greek's odds on Richie getting 800 e:·'-1~g is? 






