Groundhog: 
more . winter . 
Punxsutawney PhD,. a . prog· nostlcatlng groundhog, saw his shadow atop wind-swept Gob· bier's Knob on Wednesday. to bellevers In the legend, that means there wUI be sh more weeks of winter. . · 
The· annual ceremony In which members of the Punx~utawney Groundhog Oub gather on the hill to "talk" .to a groundhog named PhD has been gobig op for 90 years. Only twice In that time have they said he couldn't see his shadow and forecast ait early spring. · 


The Observer 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's Vol. XI, No. 72 Thursday, February 3, 1977 

Stresses conservation 
Carter's 'chat' calls on nation for unity 
W ASIDNGTON [AP] " President -to live thriftily and remember the' answer the questions that are on Carter told Americans last night it import:mce of helping our neigh-your mind." 
will take sacrifice, thrift and co-· borS, then we can find ways to operation to weather a permanent adjust and to make our society energy shortage that government more ·efficient and our lives more cannot solve ''if you are not willing productive.'' to help." · In his first television-radio report 
In a fireside chat on· a cold winter to the voters who narrowly elected · night, Carter asked the nation to him, Carter declared, "As Presi­rekindle a spirit of unity like that of dent I will not be able to provide World War II days, so as to cope everything that everyone of you with energy, economic and an array might like. I am sure to make of other problems .confronting his mistakes.'' two-week-old administration. ·. "But I can promise you that you 
"I believe we are ready for that will never have the feeling that you same spirit again -to plan ahead, · needs are being ignored or that we work together and use common . have forgotten who put us in 
sense," he said. · 
"Not because of war,. but be­cause we realize that we must" act together to solve our problems and because we are ready to trust one another." · 
Carter spoke first of enelgy, saying that a permanent policy to deal with that problem is one of his most urgent projects. He· praised Congress for its quick passage of the emergency natural gas act he signed hours earlier. . 
"But the real problem -our failure to plan for the future or to take energy conservation seriously -started long before . this winter 
and will take . much longer solve," he said. ''This winter has made us realize that we have to act," said.  to all he.  
Long-term program  

Carter said he will complete by April 20 a long-term energy pro" gram emphasizing ·conservation. He said the nation now . wastes more energy than it imports. 
"We must face the fact that the energy shortage is permanent,'' he said. '~There is no way we can soive it quickly." · 
"But if we all cooperate and make modest sacrifices, ibve learn office." 
·After listing a series of adminis­tration goals ranging from the formulation of a comprehensive energy policy to efforts at bettering relations with the Soviet Union and China, Carter again paid tribute to former President Gerald R. Ford as he concluded his talk with an appeal for "joing efforts and mutual sacrifice." 
"With the help of my predeces­
. sor," he said, "we have come through a very difficult period in our nation's history. Butfor almost ten years, we have not had the sense of common national inte­rest." 
" ... Because ofthe division in our country, many of us cannot remem­her a time when we really felt 
united." 
· Carter pledged anew to foster a sense of national community by conducting "an open administra­tion, with frequent press confer­ences and reports to the people and with 'town hall' meetings across 
. the nation where you can criticize, make suggestions and ask ques­tions." 
The President disclosed that he and his advisers ''are also planning with some of the radio networks live call-in sessions during which I can accept your phone calls and 

Paul Gerni,. billiards trick · shot artist, performecr· in the LaFortune pool rooin for a crowd of students last night. (photo by Barbara Dodge) 
Reorganized government 

In promising to reorganize what he termed "our confused and wasteful system" of government, Carter said "the place to start is at the top-in the White House." 
"I am reducing the size of the White House staff by nearly one-third and have asked the members ofthe Cabinet to do the same at the top staff level. Soon I will put a ceiling on the number of people employed by federal government agencies. so we can bring the growth of government under con­trol." 
At the outset, as he spoke from a stiff-backed chair before a log fire in the White House library, Carter said he takes "very seriously" his campaign commitments and beli­eves "they were the reason I was elected." 
He said, "I want you to know I intend to carry them out." 
Carter cited the d~"velopment of a national energy policy as "one of our most urgent projects." 
However, he argued that the problem can be dealt with more effectively if Congress agrees to consolidate more than SO different agencies that now have a_ hand in energy policy into a single energy· department "to bring oraer out of this chaos." 
As for his broader energy plan, he said it will emphasize conserva­tion, the development of coal re­serves, increased research on solar energy and the maintenance of "'strict safeguards on necessary atomic energy prod~ction." 
Seeming to suggest that his call for lowered thermostats in winter­time become a permanent part of American life, he said: 
"All of us must learn to waste less energy. Simply by keeping our thermostats at 65 degrees during the daytime and 55 degrees at night, we could save half the current shortage of natural gas.'' 
Proposals In Congress 
Carter also placed considerable emphasis on his proposals now before Congress to jack up the economy with a $31-billion, two­year program of tax law changes and job programs. 
"I realize that very few people will think that this total economic plan is perfect," he said. "Many groups would like to see more of one kind of aid and less of another. 
''But I am confident that this is the best type or t>alance plan we can produce for the over-all econo­mic health of the nation. 
"It will produce steady, balan­ced, sustainable growth. It does not ignore inflation to solve unem­ployment or visa versa." 
Contending that he "took office in the middle of the worst economic slowdown in the last 40 years," the President said that high unemploy­ment has been costing the average American family $1,800 a year in income and the U.S. treasury $40 billion annually in revenues. 
In discussing the way govern­ment operates, Carter claimed to have already "eliminated expen­sive and unnecessary luxuries, such as door-to-door limousine service for many officials," includ­ing his key White House aides. 
"Government officials can't be sensitive to your problems if we are living like royalty here in Washing­ton," he said. 
Carter at that point voiced a request that American refrain from sending gifts to him or members of his family, "while I am deeply grateful for the many good wishes that lie behind them." 
The President promised that he would work to cut down govern­
[contlnued on page 4] 
Federal relief due for Indiana 
INDIANAPOUS [AP] President 
Carter ordered federal aid for 
weather-beaten Indiana on Wed­
nesday and considered declaring 
the state a disaster area as the 
worsening energy crisis threatened 
homes heated by kerosene. 
State Energy Director Thomas 
Kibler said 195 homes in the 
Richmond area near the Ohio 
border and an undetermined num­
ber of others near Columbus were 
out of kerosene. There were 
contingency plans to house those 
families in National Guard shelters, 
but for the time being most were 
heated by burning wood, instead of 
kerosene, in stoves. 
Richmond Mayor Clifford Dick-
man also said his city, the state's 
13th largest with a population of 
44,000, was critically short of fuel 
oil, with about a two-week supply. 
Downtown businesses and shop­
ping centers agreed to cut their 
hours to 42-54 a week, instead of 
the normal 60-72, to conserve fuel. 
Still recovering from last week's 
blizzard and fuel shortages caused 
by, the coldest winter in history, 
Hoosiers braced for more bad 
weather Wednesday night and 
Thursday. The National Weather· 
Service· forecast one to three inches of new show, mixed with ·freezing rain and sleet in central 
and southern Indiana. 
Responding to a request from 
Gov. Otis_ B. Bowen on Monday, 
Carter declared a state of emer­
gency in Indiana because of the 
impact of ice and snow on vital 
transportations arteries within the 
state. The action will make federal 
aid available for relief efforts in' 
areas designated by the Federal 
Disaster Assistance Administration 
FDAA. An FDAA spokesman said an­other Bowen request to declare the state a major disaster area was pending. William J. Watt, the 
'governor's chief energy adviser, said he expected the disaster declaration to come yet this week, making farmers, businessmen, cities and towns eligible for federal money to recover their losses from the cold winter and energy short­age. 
A White House spokesman said . the emergency aid ordered by . Carter will be used to reopen ''vital supply routes to agricultural, educa­
tional, governmental, commercial and industrial establishments and such other emergency systems as· may be required to save lives and protect property, public health and safety." 
The first five counties declared eligible for help were Cass, La ..Grange, Fulton, Jay andSt. Joseph 
· but an aide to Sen. Birch Bayh, D-Ind., said more will be named later. Watt also said he had a verbal commitment from-the Federal Energy Administration to seek emergency allocations of kerosene for the state. He said even if extra kerosene is found, it will ta.ke two to four days to distribute it. Besides the 195 families without kerosene, Kibler said others have only a 24-hour supply. The average family uses about 10-15 gallons of kerosene per day, he added. 
The Richmond and Columbus areas were the first to report their supplies had run out, but Kibler said others might follow if the cold weather continues and additional kerosene is slow in coming. He 
_said more than 433,000 homes in Indiana are heated with fuel oil and kerosene 
Mary Jackson, director of the Wayne County Community Action Commission in Richmond, said about 700 homes in the area are . threatened by the shortage. "We are out of No. 1 oil kerosene, just out period,'' she said. 
Her office is prepared to move families to shelters, and provide food and blankets, but "thus far we've been able to get wood for them to burn in their stoves and people are keeping warm to the degree they're not ready to move out of their homes," Mrs. Jackson said. 
Mayor Dickman urged all resi­dents to turn their thermostats to 60 degrees and called on the governor· and the legislature to "put teeth in fuel conservation measures." 
He said most distributiors have the same allocations as last year, when the winter was much milder. Richmond's largest oil dealer, Douglas Warfield, told reporters after meeting with the mayor that his February allocation is 460,000 gallons. He sold about one million in January alone, Warfield said. 
"I know it's somewhat shocking and sudden, but we've definitely got a serious fuel porblem due to a shortage of oil, and I know other agencies' action will soon show people it's no joke," Dickman said. · 
"The dealers are laying all their ..:ards on the table. There's no oil." 
Meanwhile, the State Employ­ment Security Division said about 1,200 workers laid off because of fuel shortages in the last week were recalled to, their jobs Tuesday and Wednesday, most of them in Fort Wayne, _Muncie and Indianapolis. But that still left at least 50,800 out of work, officials said. 
Thursday, February 3, 1977 
the observer ---. . --· 
---News Briefs-........ 
j

~================Nation~ 


Carter signs gas bill 
WASHINGTON -President Carter, signing his first legislation since his inauguration, approved the emergency natural gas bill yesterday night and said its first use will be to transfer billions of cubic feet of the fuel from California to eastern states hard-hit by the bitter winter. 

Mondale's trip a "success" 
WASHINGTON -Vice President Walter F. Mondale called his round-the-world trip a success today and said the nations he visited agreed to economic stimulation, ' consultation on nuclear proliferation and a summit conference to discuss economic, political and security matters. 

Laetrile approved by Ind. House 
INDIANAPOLIS-A bill permitting the use of laetrile as a cancer treatment breezed through the Indiana House yesterday as sponsors hailed it as a hope for the termina1ly ill. The subtance, is also known as,Amygoalin and ViJ.amin B-17, has been banned by the Food an.t Drug Administration FD. But laetrile, which is found in many foods, currently is being prescribed as a cancer treatment in 27 foreign <:ountries. Many Americans obtain the substance on the black market according to reports. 
....._On Campus Today-... 
1:15pm­
3:30pm­4 pm­
6 pm­7 pm-7:30pm­
9 pm-midnight. 

lecture, "corporations' changing requirements for financial services," by robert quinn, room 100 cce. 
computer course, "fortran," room 115 computer center/math bldg. 
seminar, "radiation chemistry and poly (geycidyl­methacrylate) and its copolymers with ethyl acry­late," by dr. eugene d. feit, bell laboratories, murray hill, n.j., sponsored by the radiation laboratory, conference room radiation research bldg. 
senior wome11's dinner, sponsored by student union, cce. 
meeting, nd-smc young democrats, room 2-d Iafortune. 
lecture, "mirages of memory: the second-hundred years," by diane lazarus, ass't curator of paintings 
and sculpture, indianapolis gallery.  museum of art, nd art  
nazz, gruff coleman, nazz.  
album hour, wsnd 640am,  nina burrell  plays  bill  

quateman's latest album, "night after night," 

Volunteers needed for neighborhood services 
New service ·opportunities have been released by the Volunteer Services Office. 
Persons interested in working with the Literacy Council by teach­ing people to read may contact Ric~y Flores,232-2701. Training sessions will be held prior to teaching~ 
Volunteers are needed for the neighborhood study help program at Marquette Elementary School to tutor in math and English on Mondays and Wednesdays from 
12:50 p.m. to 1:50 p.m. Transpor­tation will be provided. H interest­ed call John Hastings, 272-4965. 
At feast three volunteers are needed to assist· with supervised physical therapy for a one-year-old retarted boy from 9 a.m. to 11 a.m .. or 1:30 p.m. to 3:30p.m. daily. For more information, contact Volunte­er Services, 7308. 
Essex Nursing Home needs vol­unteers to work on a one-to-one basis assisting retarded children with motor_ skiiis, feeding, and to provide friend.shfp Those inter­ested should call Terri Morris, Social Service coordinator, 289­7873.. 
Northern Indiana Children's Hospital and Developmental Dis­abilities Center needs volunteers to work in the Rehabilitation Therpy department. Volunteers wiii help retarded children develop gross and fine motor skills and provide them with stimulation, recreation, physical exercise and social con­tact. · 
Activities will include participa­tion in sports, arts · and crafts, music, boy scouts, girl scouts, physical therapy, developmental­social-play sessions and advanced grooming skills. For more informa­tion call Sally Glaser, (home) 289-1408, (work) 234-2101, or Joe Scott, 283-3130. 
*The Observer 
Night Editor: Joseph L. Bauer 
Asst. Night Editor: Leigh Tun­akan, Steve Odland Layout Staff: Tom Byrne, Richard O'Malley, Barry Til­lis, Marti Hogan, Rich Barlow, Featur.es Layout: Dave O'Keefe Sports Layout: Ray 0'Brien Typists: Kathy Egbert, Gwen Coleman, Rusty Espinosa, Mel Celeste Night Controller: The dancing digitals of Morey Blinder Day Editor: Marian Ulicny Copy Readers~ Barb Lang­henry, Drew Bauer Ad Layout: Pat Russell 
~hotographer: Barbara Dodge) 
The Observer is published Monday through Friday and weekly during the summer session, except during the exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $20 per year ($10 per semester) from The Obser­ver, Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
·Quinlan sym~osium slate~ 
.--• -·-.._ __ --. . ---·-•. .... _ 
· The major participants in the Duty?" at 9:45 a.m. Karen Quinlan court case and the --Jonathan Brant, Massachusetts author of California's death-with-assistant attorney general in dignity law will meet at Notre charge of the Privacy Section Dame for a one-day symposium presenting, "Beyond Quinlan and tomorrow. Sa:ikewicz: Developing Legal Stan-
The meeting will explore the dards for Decisions Not to Treat "Ethical, Legal and Medical As-Terminally Ill Patients" at 2 p.m. pects of the Treatment of the The Saikewicz case involved a Terminally Ill Patient.'' It is profoundly retarded man in a sponsored by the Notr-e Dame Massachusetts institution who de-Center for Civil Rights and will veloped leukemia. The State be held in the Center for Continu-Supreme Court upheld a lower ing Education auditorium begin-court decision that chemotherapy ning at 9 a.m. ___!.l~d not be imposed on Saikewicz, . 
who later died. 

--Dennis J. Horan, Chicago at­torney and Chairman of the Amen-can Bar Association's Right to Live/Right to Die Committee pre­senting, "Medical Care for the Terminally U1 Patient: Legal Issues." at 3:45p.m. 
Korein, Connery and Armstrong will be followed by a general discussion led by two panelists. The same format wilf be used for the afternoon session, when Brant, Keene and Horan will speak. The symposium is open to the public. 
~~I~~~~~§~~ r,,,,,w.,,~:,,,,,,,,~,=~wc···.,,,.,,.,,,.,_.,_,._._____w.··-·<·'·'m".,_,m,.,. 
1
Supreme Court. She is still breath-·:·: ~ , :·:· 


~~;~~~~~~I ~~VC Direct Drive I
symposmm. He will present an !:~; analysis of the Quinlan case at :::: 
10:45 a.m. :;:; Early in January, California be-!:~; 
$148 came the first state with a law that :;:; establishes medical, ethical and :;:; legal standards covering terminally !:~; ill patients' rights to die. California ;:;: Assemblyman Barry M. Keene, ;:;: author of the Natural Death Act :;:; 
and chairman of the State Assem-·~;ADDRESS!
bly's Committee on health, will ;: 
· :;:~ discuss the California law at 2 :45 ;; Michi.!!:an & Indiana 1!1 SOlJI'Of 

:~)~fl:!~r::.:::.;·.e: :::: L!iiAil:i~~!J~~w~,,,,,.f.~L:~..,<>~J 
logist who was medical consultant and witness in the ·Quinlan case . presenting "A Definition of Living Systems: Implications in the Diagnosis of Brain Death and Other 
Irreversible States" at 9 a.m. 
--Rev. John R. Connery, Jesuit 

moral theologian and consultant in 
the Quinlan case presenting, "Pro­
longi!!_g Life--~oral _2.l:>ligation or 


Cometowherethe 

Krunchis! 

Shrimp~· Fi!ih 
~..._l'/1 & chicken ··c-1\· { .. -chips
-,.

. ~...-~ ..
Krunch-Pup~~~ -~~;.; 
........:;.. 1 



FREE refill;,·_,.-­
on all / ~ 

DRINKS ,,__ ~ 
"'/ '. . . ....... , " 

;~;~

T.urn+able ::::
J I 1.1 :::: 
~~~1
REG $22995 ;:;: 
. :;:; 
~~~~ 
:;:; :;:; ;:;: 
~~ .........: ;~;:
lffi I ('"I; 

sleep 
. 



cheap! 
Spotless housekeeping, quiet construction, X-Iong double beds, wall-to-wall shag carpeting, Color Tv, direct dial telephone, full bath, at-your­door parking, individually controlled heating and air conditioning. 
Single $10.95-$11.95/Double $13.95-$15.95 
COME ON IN OUT OF THE COLD AND 
GET OVER TO THE 
senior bar 
\gh\\\. ~ 

. . ...,\gh\1on ,~~,g\\ ­

\·'otn'a ,, .,. ~' 
\\' s Ca \\ tl\Us\v 

ca\\\Otn\8 
drink spedals 9-1 $.50 Tequila Sunrise California Lemonade Frism Sour 
It's also SENIOR WOMEN'S NITE so dress up ladies !1 
-~----------------­
Thursday, February 3, 1977 the observer 
Appeal pending · 


Court case threatens Affirmative Action 
by Bonnie Solow and David Osbome Paciftc News Service 

Legal experts say it could be the most important civil rights case in 20 years. Black, Chicano and other minority critics say it's a set-up. 
The case is Bakke v. the Regents of the University of California (UC). 
In a landmark decision last September, the California Supreme Court ruled the special admissions program forminorities at UC-Davis Medical School was unconstitution­al because it discriminated against whites. 
Minorities charge that the de­fendant, UC, never tried to win the case. And now that the University has appealed the decision to the 
U.S. Supreme Court, these same critics fear that an inadequate defense could hurt every affirma­tive action program in the nation. 
While activist critics are organiz­ing public demonstrations, a coali­tion including the United Auto Workers, the National Urban Lea­gue, the ational Conference of Black Lawyers and the Mexican­American Legal Defense and Edu­cation Fund has filed a brief they hope will persuade the Supreme Court not to take the case. 
The high court has stayed the California court's ruling, indicating it will probably take the case. Should it uphold the California decision, say Prof. Ralph Smith of the National Conference of Black 
Lawyers  and  the  University  of  
Pennsylvania  Law  School,  "It  
would have  a  catastrophic effect,  

wiping out (special admissions) programs all over the country" and spilling over to threaten affirmative 
·action job programs. T~ case stems trom a charge by Allen Bakke, a white who w!ls twice,, 
rejected by the UC-Davis Medical I School, that his Fourteenth_ Amendments-rights to equal pro-M tection under the law had been i violated. 
Bakke contends he was rejected 
solely because the UC-Davis spe­
cial admissions program, which · reserves 10 out of 100 places for 
minorities, let a less qualified 
minority student take his place. 
His suit resulted in a California 
ruling that a qualified white cann.:~t 
be refused admission so that a less 
qualified minority person can be 
educated. 
Reagan appointees influential 
Many minority lawyers believe the UC Regents, dominated by conservative appointiees of ex­governor Ronald Reagan, chose not to present a strong defense of minority admissions programs. 
"The University's primary effort was not to win," but "to obtain a definitive rule on its special admis­sions program," says Armando Menocal, a lawyer for one of the nation's largest public interest Jaw firms, Public Advocates. 
''All the University had to Jose was a program they never wanted," adds University of San Francisco Law Professor Charles Lawrence. 
UC presented as evidence only one affidavit and one deposition, both from UC-Davis, Admissions Director Dr. George Lowrey, It gave no oral testimot:ty and called no expert witnesses or members of the minority communities involved. 
"To allow a case of the magni­tude and impact of Bakke to be decided without an opportunity for minorities to present vital evi­dence ... is a travesty of justice," 
Accounting students offer income tax assistance 
Jean Powley Staff Reporter 

For the fifth consecutive year, Notre Dame's Department of Ac­countancy is sponsoring a Tax Assistance Program (TAP) to pro­vide free income tax preparation service to low-income individuals in the South Bend area. 
The 43 senior accounting majors involved in the three credit pass/­fail course will work one evening a week in one of the nine centers around the city. At least on ecenter will be open every night of the week through April 15, except Sundays. 
The two basic purposes of TAP are to help low-income families prepare their tax returns and to give accounting students their first tax esperience out in the "real world," stated Kenneth milani, assistant professor of accounancy and faculty coordinator for TAP. 
"The students really seem to enjoy it (the program). In fact, some students even decide to go into taxes when they're through, which is the best feedback in the world," Milani said. 
TAP has become so popular that over 150 students applied for the program and a lottery had to be used to choose the 43 participants. 
Begun by an MBA student and a law student in 1972, TAP was originally designed to assist low income taxpayers who were not aware of Indiana's eight-dollar per person state sales tax credit. Although the tax credit was later rescinded, the program continued because it was discovered that these taxpayers needed assistance on the tax eturn itself. 
In 1973 the College of Business Administration adopted TAP as its own project and the Department of Accountancy took charge of the program, which is different from a strictly voluntary basis. later it was incorporated into the curricu­lum as a three credit work-study program because of the great amount of time involved. 
Last year, approximately 800 returns were completed by stu­dents in the program, obtaining about $100,000 in refunds for their clients. Milani estimated that roughly 500 taxpayers were reach­
ed by the project. 
TAP has neverhad a tax return come back from the Internal Reve­nue Service(IRS) because of a mistake. Milani explained, how­ever, that thereis very little chance of either an IRS audit or a serious 
mistake with returns of low-income families. 
The feedback from clients has been "fantastic," Milani said. There have been many letters thanking the students and have been "asked to return time and time again by several organiza­
tions," Miller added. Milani said the program has been so successfu that he will continue it as long as he is teaching at Notre Dame. "I put a very high priority on this program during the second semester of each year," he emphasized. 
RA open house planned at SMC 
Last weekend's snow storm can­celled the open house scheduled for Saint Mary's advisor applicants. This Sunday, Feb. 6, applicants are encouraged to visit the halls from 2 to 4 p.m. 
The purpose of the open house is to give applicants the opportunity to meet the hall directors in each hall as well as consulting with the current resident advisor staff. 
writes Charles Lawrence in a legal journal attack on Bakke. 
Some minority lawyers have even suggested there was a collu­sion between UC and Bakke. Most also believe UC put up too weak a legal case to risk a U.S. Supreme Court precedent on the minority admissions. 
''This is a terribly important question for this society," says the National Conference of Black Law­yer's Ralph Smith. "It's one the Supreme Court will have to rule on. 
But the issues should be presented fairly and clearly to the Court. The Bakke case doesn't do this." 
Donald Reidhaar, chief attorney for the UC Regents, denies the University presented a weak case. The written evidence submitted to the court by UC, he said, "includ­ed a great deal of statistical information and documentation." 
"The case fairly and squarely presents the issue of admissabi­lity" of UC's special program for minorities, he says. "The (U.S. Supreme) Court will find some way to rule without undermining the programs." 
The California Ruling 

The California Supreme Court's ruling in favor of Bakke was based on three conclusions . First, it ruled that Bakke was better quali­fied than the minority students admitted under UC-Davis 's special program -a point disputed by UC. 
Minority lawyers object to this conclusion, arguing that the stan­dardized tests and grade point averages that maKe up a good part of UC's criteria for admission are culturally biased against non­whites. 
The court's second conclusion was that UC.Davis was not guilty of "past discrimination." The Su­preme Court has often required proof of such past discrimination before ruling affirmative action programs ·constitutional. 
In this case, UC took tne position that it had not discriminated in the past, a stand that has led to the most bitter criticism from minori­ties, who believe it severely weak­ened UC's case. 
They think UC could easily have proved past discriminaion, but did not because it was unwilling to accuse itself publicly. 
While the California Supreme Court was considering the case, the American Medical School's first year, 1968, it admitted no black or Chicano students, and the next year only one Chicano and two blacks were enrolled among a class of SO. 


Comparing this to the fact that blacks and Chicanos make up 20 percent of California's population, the brief argued that Davis "had no choice but to take affirmative action to remedy the de facto segrega­tion." 
UC lawyer Reidnaar responds that although the school's use of test scores and grades resulted in "nearly all white classes," there was "never any intent on the part of the school to discriminate against minorities." 
Other minority lawyers have argued that UC could have pointed to past discrimination in the ele­mentary and secondary schools feeding into the University of California system. 
James Bell, a spokesman for the Black Law Students Association at UC's Hastings College of Law, points to one reason UC may have taken its stand. "The UC Regents couldn't admit they discriminated in the past or they would have been subject to suits from third world people," he charges. 
Finally, the California court con­cluded that UC had failed to prove that a special admissions program based on race was the option open to UC that least discriminated against whites. For racial admis­sions programs, the courts require that a school prove there is "a compelling state interest" requir­ing the program and that there is no alternative to racial classifica­tions. 
In this case, the court agreed that there was a compelling state interest in integrating the medical school but suggested alternatives such as setting up a special program for the economically, ra­ther than racially disadvantaged. 
Some minority lawyers in Cali­fornia believe such alternatives can be designed, though they doubt they will be as effective as racial quotas. But they fear that the conservative U.S. Supreme Court will take a much broader sweep, closing off even these options. 
If that happens, law and medical school deans across the country agree; there will be almost no minority students left in their schools. 
Your Source for the Unusual in Diamonds and Precious Gems Platinum and Gold Jewelry 
You'll find untold treasures of the finest quality brought to you by the eye of an expert.* And sold with the care of a professional.* 


Insurance appraisals and purchases of fine diamonds and estate jewelry provided. 
• Graduate Gemologist: Gemological Institute of America •Fellow Gemmologist: 
Gemmological Association of Great Britain 
•sA: Indiana University 
Lobby St. Joseph Bank Building South Bend, Indiana Telephone: 287-1427 
John M. Marshall's 

COia"'ond S)"'po!tt Company 
Your Source for the Unusual 
1/2 Gal Kamchatka Vodka  1Qt~ Bellows Gin  
REG $999  REG $589  
NOW  $789  NOW·$385  
1/5 Zonin Lambrusco  1/5 Seagram's Seven  
REG $285  REG $545  
NOW  $1 69  NOW $399  

8 pack7oz PABST 
REG $1 75 
NOW $148 
other schools' programs in that it is Women wishing to become advi­the only such program with off­sors are welcome to visit any or all campus offices. of the halls holding open house. 
Cases of Beer $399 
During the first four years of its For further information, contact existence, students participated on the ('nunc;e-linrr C'Pntf>r 'It 4R:l6. 
~ the observer Thursday~ February 3, 1977 
Black cultural arts festival to begin Sunday 
by Maureen O'Brien Senior Staff Reporter 

The fourth Black Cultural Arts Festival will begin this Sunday centering around the theme, "An Inquiry Into Modern Black Amer­ica." There will be 13 events during the festival which will run through Feb. 27. 
Gary Cooper, an Alabama state 

representative and a Notre Dame 
alumnus, will open the festival 
Sunday night with a talk in the 
library auditorium. 
Cooper, a native of Mobile, Ala., received a B.S. degree in Finance. He served in the Marine C6prs on active duty for 12 years and while on duty in Viet Nam, received the Bronze Star and two Purple Hearts. He received the Vietname~!! Cross of Gallantry three times. Cooper was the first black man in the history of the Marine Corps to lead an infantry company into combat. 
In 1971, Cooper was named the Outstanding Man in the United States. Cooper is presently a state representative in Alabama where he is a member of the Rules Committee and vice-president of the Insurance Committee. Cooper is also a member of the Alabama Advisory Committee to the U.S. Commission on Civil Rights. 
In addition to his work as a legislator, Cooper is the chairman of the board of the Opportunities Industrial Center, a member of the board of the American Red Cross and the vice-president of the Chrisitian Benevolent Insurance Co. 
Following Cooper, Imamu Amiri Baraka, author, critic, poet and chairman of the Revolutionary Communist League will speak. Baraka, formerly Leroi Jones, is most noted for his literary works, such as, Preface to a Twenty Volume Suicide Note, Blues people, Dutchman, and The Sys­tem of Dante's HeU. 
Baraka has taught drama at Columbia University, literature at the University of.Buffalo and was a visiting professor San Francisco State. Baraka received a Doctorate of Humane Letters Society from 
Malcolm X College, Chicago in 
1972. 
He is also the secretary-general 
of the National Black Political 
Assembly, co-convener of the 
National Black Political Convention 
and has worked on the Political 
Prisoners Relief Fund, the African 
Liberation Day Committee and the 
Second International World Festi­
val of Black Arts. He is also the 
founder of the Black Arts Repertory 
Theatre School. 
Soul Food Dinner 

The festival will continue on 
Tuesday, Feb. 8 with a special 
"Soul Food" dinner in the dining 
halls which will feature barbeque 
spareribs and Southern batter fried 
chicken. Green beans with ham and 
red pepper, Southern style greens, 
Salad Beautiful, cornbread 
squares, baking powder bisquits 
and Sweet Tater pie will also be 
served. 
Late_r_t-.h-a-c-t-night, Barbara Proc­
tor, owner of Proctor and Gardner Advertising in Chicago will speak in the library auditorium. 
On Friday, Feb. 11, there will be a performance by Bernadine Oli­phint, operatic soprano who has toured Europe and has sung as guest soloist with the Houston, Dallas, Atlanta and Nashville sym­phonies. Oliphint also received a Fulbright Fellowship to study voice and opera in Stuttgart and Munich, Germany and was later awarded a Martha Baird . Rockefeller Music Fund, Inc. grant to help her establish her career in Europe. 
An art exhibition will open in the ISIS gallery Saturday, Feb. 12 and will run through Feb. 25. There will also be a panel discussion with printmaker, Carol Ann Carter; naturalist photographer, Larry Sykes and ceramicist, Bing Davis, in the ISIS gallery Saturday, Feb. 12. 
Second Week 

Carleen Polite, author, romantic novelist and writer of social com­mentary, will begin the second week of the festival with a talk in Washinton Hall on Sunday, Feb. 
13. Polite has been a professor at the University of Buffalo and was recently traveling through France. She is noted for her novel, The FlateUants. 
Willie ·Davenport, a four time Olympian and a track star, will speak in Washington Hall on Wednesday, Feb. 16. Davenport set an Olympic record for1:he high hurdles in the 1968 Olym!lt.ogames in Mexico City and also won the gold medal that year ·· He also competed in the Monf:teal Olympic games this past summer and won a bronze medal. 
Davenport is presently employed by the City-Parish Government as 
·the executive director of the May­
or-President's Council on Youth 
Opportunity in East Baton Rouge. , 
The keynote speaker, Delano Lewis, vice-president of the C & P Telephone Co. wiU. s~ak Friday, Feb. 18. Lewis has been a legisla­tive assistant to Senator Edward 
W. Brooke, was deputy director of the Office for Volunteer Placement for Minority Recruitment and held various administrative positions in the Peace Corps. He is a member of the board on the Board of Trade, the Museum of African Art, VOICE the Washington Performing Arts Society and the D.C. Chapter of the American Red Cross. 
Fashion show 
-

The black students of Notre Dame will have a fashion show entitled "Get Your Fashionable IT Together'' in the Monogram Room on Saturday, Feb. 19. Students from Notre Dame will model fash­ions supplied by stores in South Bend. During the intermission, two students from the Corine Morse 
Williams  Dance  School  will  per­ 
form.  
The  Corine  Morse  Williams  

Dance School, under the direction of Corine Morse, will also perform a combination of modern ballet and modern dance the following day. 
The festival begins to draw to a close on Tuesday, Feb. 22, with a "Gospel Festival" featuring the 
Lawyers say Ray acted alone 
WASHINGTON [AP] • After a ten-month review, a team of Jus­tice Department lawyers has con­cluded that James Earl Ray acted alone in the assassination of Dr. Martin Luther King, informed de­partment sources said yesterday. 
Carter to stress human rights 
·­

[continued from page 1] ment regulations and "make sure that those that are written, are in plain English. When ever a regulation is issued, it will carry its author's name." 
"Soon I will put a ceiling on the number of people by federal go­vernment agencies so we can bring the growth of government under control," he said. 
Carter also said his administra­tion would attempt to promote respect for human rights abroad but not to the point where it jeopardized friendly relations with other countries. 
He noted the State Department already had informed the Soviet Union it disaeproved of that coun­try's efforts to repress Soviet human rights activist Andrei Sakharov. 
"We will continue to express our concern about violations of human rights, as we have during the last week, without upsetting our efforts toward friendly relations with other countries," the President said. 
"I want our nation's actions abroad to make you proud." 
Carter noted he had pledged during his campaign to maintain a strong defense and said he intend­ed to have a "strong lean, efficient fighting force." 
The lawyers rejectedtheoriesthat Ray was only a cog in a conspiracy to assassinate the Nobel Prize­winning civil rights leader, the sources said. 
The team of lawyers from the department'li Office of Professional Responsibility delivered its report to former Atty. Gen. Edward H. Levi shortly before he left office Jan. 20. 
The department plans to make public a "sanitized version" of the report, deleting names of informers and other sensitive material, the 
. sources said. . But the public release has been delayed because department offi­~ials want to avoid the a~ral!.£e_ 
of trying to influence the House of Representatives in its debate about launching a lengthy and costly new invstigation of the murders of King and President John F. Kennedy. 
When the House completes its action, the department will release its own report. 
King was shot to death on a motel balcony in Memphis in April 1968. 
Ray pleaded guilty to King's murder. But he told the court he did not agree with statements by the prosecution and his own attor­ney that there was no conspiracy in the case. 
Andrews University Gospel Choir. publicity; SheryiJoyner, Andrews The final event of the festival will Choir and Renard Gueringer, Car­
• be a Gospel church service in the leen Polite. The students have 
Alumni chapel on Sunday, Feb. 27, 
worked in cooperation with Dr. which will be delivered by the Bernadette Merluzzi, minority stu­
Reverend Marvin Russell, a stu­dent affairs coordinator. dent at Notre Dame. 
The 1977 Black Cultural Arts The Black Cultural Arts Festival Festival is being sponsored by thge is under the direction of Frank College of Arts & Letters, the White and Peter Cannon. Also Music Department, Student Activi­
working on the festival committee ties ·office, Office of Student are Don Hill and Reginald Reed, 
Affairs, Office of the Provost, and business; Bonita Bradshaw, the· 
the Student Union Academic Com­fashion show; -~l!_Igleton Bender•. mission. 
eginq_ & S. U. Social Commission present the.... 
"Ask Me To Dance" Dance Saturday February 5· No Frills You don ~t need a jacket, 
No Theme No Costumes a tie or aformal gown!!!! 
No Flowers Just a down Party!!!! 
Music by Sah~ra 8:30--1:00 Admissiop_$1.00 
ina North) 
,. 

1-or•..-il'>•i.,on ~tion 
picture from the

THB GAIIATIIST AFRICAN 
ADVI:NTURB EYlER FILM.D. 
terrify_ing No.1 best seller. 
LEE ROGER MARVIN and MOORE in 
MWS




SHOIJTAT 
IOIBIT IPGI 
R8Y 



suw...,
THE DEVIL~ 
SCIIEIDER DIIEYFUSS
-FrL 1:oo:9 :3o 

f:rL 7:15-9:45 Sat.&sun. 2:00-4:30-7:00-9:30 
Sat.& Sun. 2 :15-4:45-7 :15-9:45 
M-Th 6 

Weekdays -7 :00 -9:30 . NEXT TO NORftl VILLAGE MALL Sat., Saun. 2:00-4:30-7:00-9:30 


RERI-1 
ENE WILDER 

LL CLAYBURGH ~:sses 

Weekends 1 :45-4:30-7:00-9:45 

2-4-6-8-10 
__j 

----------------~-----------------------------------------------------------­
5 
cinema in south bend 
Small Wonder Hotel Californi 
a preuiew by Daue O'Keefe a review by Gregg Bangs 
Throughout their four previous albums, Small Change the Eagles have relied on several recurring I Directed by l<:rancols Truffaut images, such as cars and highways, the 
rock star as an outlaw, and personal 
How do you make a movie about children relationships. 1 without giving in to the relentless tempta­In their newest recording, Hotel Call· I tion to coddle and cuddle? How do you fornia, many of these images are repeated I depict their SFlall world, their miniature but are presented in a manner different triumphs and tragedies, without pater­from the group's previous albums. This is ~~ nalizing, patronizing, or condescending? I apparent on two fronts: first, the lyrics 
You do it like Truffaut does it: with a tend to focus on the darker side of the smile. It isn't a cutesy-goochy-goo smile. I images mentioned above; second, tlle I It is a smile bred of wonderm{.nt and Jove I overall presentation of the songs is and respect fo . the central truths of "harder," farther from the country-rock childhood: that it is transient; that it is I tag they once carried. The Eagles are often painful; that it is marked by its own currently experimenting with a more I special grace and beauty;_ and that it ends Ielectric sound, a trend that began with the too soon. I addition of L.A. sessionman Don Felder on 1
The heroes of our story are a group of guitar, and subsequently continued with I kids in a small French village. Most of I the departure of Bernie Leadon (the most them are bound by the fact that they are in country-music-oriented of the original I the same class at school, although little of I Eagles) and the addition of Joe_ Walsh of the story takes place there. James Gang fame. 
There are the DeLuca brothers, a pair of neglected by his mother. His sad plight · the end of the film~ We see the teacher as I Both of these developments are apparent wildmen who fix themselves Sunday inspires the only didacticism on Truffaut's he witnesses the birth of his first child. He Ithroughout Hotel California. In the title breakfast (bowls of chocolate milk and part, as he has the teacher deliver a makes several efforts ·.to photograph the cut, the image of cars and travelling on the slices of bread(, and relieve a friend of his lengthy harangue on children and the need event, put is unable to press the shutter. highways is seen in a different vein from haircut money by doing the task them-to protect them. It is a speech delivered to . The audience sees only the . teacher the lighthearted, free-spirited manner of selves. · the class, intended for the audience. throughout. · What Truffaut is saying is "Take it Easy." Instead of the road
I
There is Sylvie, a beautiful little girl with We see these children grow up in the that one cannot capture the incredible Isymbolizing a release, it is seen as an big brown eyes and a penchant for course of a spring. There is no real beauty of birth on film; What he fails to image of rootlessness, with the results mischief. Her small exercise in rebellion is "story," but a series of episodes that realize is that he is in the · midst of being a visit (probably a dream) to hell. one of the most outrageously funny combine to give a kaleidoscopic view of capturing a similar experience. For there Speaking of hell, the life of the affluent episodes in the film. -what it means to be a child. Turffaut lets it is very little difference between birth and in the rock circuit is depicted as a living I There is Patrick, an obedient young man go its own course, neither perceiving nor childhood with the similar combination of inferno in "Life in the Fast Lane." This who takes care of his crippled father. seeking any ordered pattern. He injects pain and beauty that accompanies both. song was co-written by Joe Walsh, Glenn I Patrick is the central figure if there indeed the film with the same contagious humor Small Change .is a wonderful film that Frey and Don Henely and definitely is s a central figure. He falls madly and and charm that marks his subjects, all the . will disarm ·the cynical and delight the Iinfluenced by Walsh--it is the hardest I 1opelessly in love with his friend's mother, while maintaining a certain amount of sensitive. .But Small Change isn't for Irocker the Eagles have yet released. "New 1 moment too true to be laughable but too necessary detachment. The result of this everyone.. It .is meant only for those who Kid in Town" continues to examine the nnocent to be tragic. balance is the most spirited and enchanting were once children. . · problems the rockstar-outlaw has in differ-I 
I 
Lest we forget, there is also Julian, a movie of the year. Note: Small Change starts Friday at the I entiating between success in his trade and ;ullen young hoodlum who is beaten and There is a brief but important scene near Forum Theater. Call 277-1522 for times. "success" in love. Both the ballad's title and lyrics somewhat cynically self-parody 
the group's rise to success in the California I rock-scene they now dominate. (lnteres­1tingly enough, none of the group's _ members are native Californians.) 



Complacency Kills. 
"Wasted Time" is an interesting look atI both sides of a relationship that is goingby Daniel H Lackner I through an extremely painful breaking-up process. Although the singer accuses the 
Ironically, tlle article in· Sunday's Pitts­from unmanageable. It would take no indirect, yet significant impact on rampant I woman in question of not being able to I mrgh Press was nestled, to the point of more than 25 million tons of grain --about population growth. I "hold her man," one quickly realizes that >eing hidden, among 10 cent coupons for 2 percent of world grain production --to Conside~;,. for · instance,. the· impetus the singer is the man in question who has !
'Special K" and 3 for $1 deals on Green meet their minimum nutritional require-behind the 3 percent birth rates afflicting I been deserted by the girl. This is one of the }iant Niblet's Corn. Its headline was ments." · Third World nations. A family of 14 is the Eagles more mature efforts at understand­lirect, candid, and unfeeling: "Computer logical counterpart to the American system ing personal relationships. >redicts Future World Chaos." Its The logical outgrowth of such a goal is of social security, for only a family of this I I . However, these rather glum looks at 
;ubstance. was equally devoid of sensitiv­the establishment of a multi-lateral grain magnitude can hope to sustain the parents familiar images do not make for an album I ty, either ignorant of the implications or reserve, predicated upon four principles. in their old age. Thus, the death of one ·1 dominated by melodies that could be eluctant to treat them with. tlle deserved First of all, it must provide stockpiles for mistaken for funeral marches. Instead they I
child requires the birth of two in order to 
:ravity: "A computer program at Case­emergency relief in both developed and maintain the status quo. I have come up tllat are catchier
A grain reserve, tunes 
University underdevloped nations from the spiraling
'Vestem Reserve forecasts by reducing the uncertainty and insecurity I (hence, more danceable and popular) and 1haos in Jess tllan a century because of food inflationary impact_ associated with years associated with hunger, will consequently faster, due in part to the pleasurable I hortages." of poor harvest. Thirdly, it need offer I guitars of Felder and Walsh. 
reduce the birth rate. Studies, such as tlle one currently being protection to the farmers of developing The equity of the ·global situation is Don Henely has most of tlle lead-vocals I 
onducted at Case-Western, do indeed put nations who frequently are driven out of such magnitude that only through the 1in the album and his gravelly voice handles damper on Third World rescue efforts. business by the dumping of relatively restructuring of international grain distri­the stepped-up tempo of the songs well. lutritional surveys indicate that about 460. cheap food in their countries in times of bution can the pangs of hunger be relieved. I Glenn Frey, who usually splits tlle vocals 1illion people actually live below tlle over production. Finally, and perhaps of Henry Kissinger, at the Food I equally with Henely, has his only lead
World 

1inimum standard of about 2000 calories major concern to active contributors, if vocal in "New Kid in Town," the albums'
Conference in Rome in 1974, said tllat it tat is necessary to sustain life at a should insure a fair income to the farmer, should be man's goal that within 10 years I only country-rock tune; a big change in his 1oderatelevel of activity. The challenge is enticing them to maintain high levels of no child should have to go to bed hungry. choice of material. Randy Meisner, like 1agnified by population growth rates production. Accordingly then, the burden of responsi­Frey, should be used more, as he shores up erging on 3.0 per cent as compared to the Obviously, the enactment of reserve bility falls upon our shoulders to compel the Eagle's competent harmonies as well 
legislation will do much to ameliorate the
J.S. rate of .55 percent, and the inertia our legislators to enact the needed policies, as being a good country bass player. I nherent in a typical Third World country's human tragedy associated with world unless of course, we cannot bring ourselves Musically, the group is expanding too, lemography. (The inertia I speak of arises hunger. 
However, it will also have an to care about those who ask to survive. past their former reliance on guitars. In I
I 
rom statistics indicating that nearly SO I Hotel California, the steel guitar only I Jercent of an underdeveloped country's appears once and the banjo never is heard. population falls into the age bracket of 16 While now relying on the piano, organ and I
I 

years or Jess.) I synthesizer to compliment their always 
The i~plications are _as obvious as thew solid guitar work. I are ommous. Assummg a replacement The album is not perfect by any means. situation remains constant up to the year I The group tends to take itself too seriously I 2000, this as of yet fruitless age bracket I at times and their lyrics are downright silly J will swell the population of Bangladesh I in some songs, such as "Victim of Love." from 69 million to 240 million, and that of what makes this album successful above I India from 650 million to 115 billion! I anything else however, is the growth 
Offering seemingly conclusive proff, shown, both musically and lyrically.• based upon a myriad of data sources, such reports more often than not retard progress I piiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiliiiiiiiiii--.iiiiiiiilllllliiiiiili and reduce self-help organizations, such as 
I

OXFAM and UNICEF, to mere efforts in futility. I 
However, the mechanical wizadry of IBM, despite all claims to the contrary, is I unable to incorporate the catalytic element ll.lMIIfllr of a pervading human pathos which is so essential in dealing witll hunger and its ramifications. 
Granted, the challenge is indeed a large one, yet it is one that must be met. "For tlle first time in the history of mankind, tlle eradication of hunger and malnutrition has become a practical possibility," relates Fred H. Sanderson, an expert on global development. "Although the problem of feeding 460 million undernourished people may seem staggering at first sight, it is far 
Thursday! February 3, 1977

the observer 

Officials deny dangerous DNA experiments 
by Barb laDghemy Senior Staff Reporter and Drew Bauer Staff Reporter 
Allegations that Notre Dame is under contract with Miles Labora­tories and is "secretly experimen­ting with a dangerous and highly volitile technology called recombin­ant DNA" have been dismissed by University officials. 
Jerry Rifkin of the Peoples Business Commission (PBC) has written a _letter accusing the Uni­

-versity of experimenting with recombinant DNA "to artificially produce novel new 'forms of life' never before existent in the_ natural evolutionary order." The letter has been distributed to several halls on campus. Alumni 
Hall reportedly had 200 copies of the letter put under the room doors. 
Dr. Robert J. Erickson, assistant faculty fellow in microbiology, who is presently conducting research supported by Miles Laboratories, stated that his work is "simply a continuation of studies on the genetics of bacteria, specifically of the genus Bacilli, that were started over 20 years ago." 
"At the present time there are no 'recombinant DNA' experi­ments being performed by Miles personnel at the University of Notre Dame," declared Erickson. 
Richard W. Conklin, director of Information Services, stated, "The research being conducted by Dr. Robert J. Erickson is not the kind of DNA research which has caused 2ontroversy at other uf!!\'_ersities. 
The DNA issue was spurred by debates in Cambridge, Mass. last summer when the city council voted a moratorium on the research after critics described the possible hazards to Mayor Alfred E. Vel­lucci. 
An article in The Chronicle of IDgher Education explained that studies known as "recombinant DNA" research involve combining a strip of genes from a cell of a higher organism with the genes in a lower organism, such as a bacteria, so that the foreign genes can be studied in a simpler environment.'' 
Deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) is 
the basic building block of genes, which are the units that control heredity. 
Conklin feels that the PBC picked up the description of the University's involvement in DNA research from an erroneous des­cription in New Times Magazine, which stated that Notre Dame was conducting secret research in this field. "Dr. Erickson's research is not secret. He intends to publish the results of his research," Conk­lin stated. 
Another possible origin of the letter distributed by Rifkin may be a call Dr. Morris Pollard, chairman of the department of Microbiology, received from PBC. According to Pollard, he was asked if there was any genetic or biological research being done at the university. Pollard answered that there was, but that he couldn't say anymore and that the caller should talk to Miles. 
Alcoholism Week events planned 
by Joan Fremeau 
"The worst thing you can do about alcoholism is nothing" is the theme of Alcoholism Action Week (AAW), Feb. 6-13, an alcohol awareness campaign sponsored by St. Joseph County Alcoholism Council, stated Theresa Kline of the Alcoholism Council of St. Joseph County. 
Indiana's Governor Otis R. Bo­wen proclaimes February as Alco­holism Awareness and Action Month, the first state-wide effort to increase awareness concerning al­coholism and its effects. 
Action is the key to the local program, emphasized Kline. "We will encourage alcoholics and their families to take positive action against this disease." , 
"Ignorance about alcoholism, or covering up the problem only makes treatment more difficult. Our goal is to make people examine their attitudes, inform them of the symptoms, and get them to seek help as soon as possible," Kline explained. 
Throughout the week, local chur­ches, media, and schools will participate in the campaign. Feb.6 is Alcoholism Action Sunday in area churches. "Inserts on alcohol­ism will appear in many church bulletins, and clergy have been asked to talk on the subject at services," explained Peggy Cron­in, alcohol and drug counselor at the Notre Dame Infirmary. 

Sunday at 4:30p.m., WNDU-TV will present "Living Sober: The Class of '76," a documentarry taped at a California garden party including interviews with recover­ing alcoholics from all walks of life. 
WNDU will also sponsor a five­part feature series entitled "Young Drunks". Produced by Marcia Ladendorff of WNDU News, the series will consider the increasing incidence of teenage drinking and focus on reasons for teen drinking and alcoholism, the role of parents and where teens can find help in their community. The series will appear on the 6 p.m. and 11 p.m. news broadcasts beginning Mon­day Feb. 7. 
WSBT-TV will also devote time to AAW. Monday morning, view­ers will ~~_able to phQne questions llbout alcoholism to "The Dorothy Frisk Show.'' ''The Afternoon Show" will also consider the pt;ob­Iems of alcoholism. 
"Minority Forum," Sunday mor­ning, Feb. 13, will feature an interview with Don Newcombe; a 
Handicap needs discussed 
by John O'Donnell 
Efforts are being made to help alleviate the University's physical · barriers to the handicapped, accor­ding to Bernie Cantu, president of the committee for Integration of Physically Handicapped (CIPH). 
"Institutions of higher lear­ning," Cantu states, "should be accessible to everyone, not just those of 'perfect health' ". 
Last year, under the direction of Jill Robinson, this committee dealt with the architectural problems that face the handicapped. CIPH met with the administration to discuss making buildings on cam­pus more accessible to handicap­ped. They also discussed lowering the curbs. 
The efforts of last year, accor­ding to Cantu, were a success. Over the summer the curbs were cut at the comers of the ACC and the Post Office Ramps were also constructed leading to the Hayes­Heady Building and at the rear of the Nieuwland Science Hall. 
-. 

The CIPH plans to meet in two weeks. Cantu indicated that the committee will work with ACC officials to provide reserve seating areas for the handicapped at foot­ball and basketball games. Com­plaints have been received from visiting spectators that no reserved space is allocated for the handi­capped, and Cantu stated that CIPH intends to eliminate this , problem. 
CIPH wi11 also discuss security in the parking lots. Cantu stressed that the handicapped should be allowed to drive on campus, but are presently denied this right. 
Cantu further mentioned that other things need to be done, such as the transferring of classes from the fourth floor of the Administra­tion Building for those who are handicapped. In order to meet these objectives, CIPH will nego­tiate with the Registrar's Office. 
CIPH holds meetings approxi­mately once a month. Anyone interested in joining CIPH should contact either Cantu, 1222, or Jill Robinson. 287-8253. 
this friday and every friday 5:15 mass & 

supper 

black baseball pitcher who played The Alcoholism Council hopes, with the Los Angeles Dodgers in through AAW, to raise public the 1960's and is an ex-alcoholic, consciousness of the problem, she 
will deal with the special problems  said.  Many  local  groups  have !  
that  women,  blacks  and  other  co-sponsored this effort, including  ·  
minorities have with alcoholism.  ~otre  Dame students  on  Alcohol :  
Newcombe  is  now  a  nationall  Problems, the Junior League ana:;  
figure in the fight against alcohol­ ·  Jaycees of South Bend, and four i  
ism.  He will appear at the Notre  local union councils.  

Dame Library auditorium Thursday r--------..,....___,=-....., 
!Vening, Feb. 10 to make a presentation and participate in a 

~~~M.

Edward W. (Moose) Krause, .director of athletics, is honorary chairman of Alcoholism Awareness 
and Action Month as well as the St. Joseph Alcoholism Council chair­man. Involved in the Alcoholism Council for eight years, Krause has 
been influential in seeking state aid 
for treatment centers and counsel­ing programs. 
Expressing his concern Krause 
said, "Alcoholism is a serious
disease, afflicting millions of peo­pie, their families and their jobs. fhere is a stigma attached to the alcoholic as a 'skid row bum.' Actually, the 'bum' is a minority. Alcoholism strikes people in all walks of life, regardless of age of position." 
-The main thrust of this week's program is to educate the public about the dangers of alcoholism, and about available help, Krause noted. "Statistics show that a good percentage of alcoholics do recover with proper treatment. There is a way out," he concluded. 
South Bend is considered to have one of the best rehabilitation programs in the state, noted Kline. There are many facilities for treat­ment and for family counseling, she stated. 
ENJOY 

YOURSELF 
THE BEST PARTY OF THE YEAR THEONLYONEOF ITS KIND THE LIBRARY MONDAY, FEB­RUARY 7 8p.m.-2a.m. ALL THE BEER YOU CAN DRINK 
GUARANTEED $1.00 ND-SMC LADIES $2.00 NO GENTLE­MEN 
DANCING IN ONE ROOM LIVE ENTERTAINMENT IN THE OTHER FEATURING 

FROM  THE  "NAZZ"  GREG  
MANDOLIN!  AND  DAVE  
SHAHEEN.  
EVERYONE  


WELCOME 
· 




ROCCO'S 
FULL SERVICE ! UNISEX SHOP 
RO___ C.._C___ 0 'S 
~31 N. Michigan 
The letter mentions an investiga­tive article published in Mother Nature Magazine (February/ March 1977) as proving lllikin' s charges. The article alleges that corporations _a!~ttempting t~ ~~y 
patents on the new forms of life that their researchers are discov­ering. Among the corporations mentioned were General Electric, Upjohn Pharmaceuticals and Miles Laboratory. 
Pollard stated that Erickson is being contracted to. do work for Miles. "Erickson's primary search is for better strains of organisms to produce compounds. He is on our teaching staff under the auspises of Miles Laboratory. They are suppor­ting all his work," Pollard said. 
''This kind of research has been done in this country for over thirty years," Pollard said. "We are not trying to create new bacteria, we are just permitting those that already exist to create their own." 
need posters in a hurry? 

I 

··nsly•pr••nts® 
the wiz oftheprinting_:t,iz~ 
· 1

1OQ _.__11 i x_L!_p~~ters O_n lv $_ 10_ .0.0 
.~___

203 N. Main 
,­
,_ 
233-4957 1.,So~nd',~ 89-6977 1!!!~~!!!;!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~~;;~;;:iiiii·i-i.ui'~-~-;;i-i-ii­
1 



\y'S \.OCICs,
fatWa 
Just past ' LIQUOR 
OPEN FRI. &SAT. 'VoR\.0 
TILL MIDNIGHT South B•d Ave. 277-3811 

6 -Packs 12 -Packs 





$1.68 $2.69 
Lite Blatz -M.ilfeL Falstaff $1 .19 Old Style 
Old Chi_~ago -Gold-~a. bel 

Rum Vod.ka 3 Jt 
9
..._$-=--4_ Gin 3~
-=.:&:.:.....1. 
KentuckY. Tavern 


$549.at.
Bourbon ~~ly Times 

Thursday, February 3, 1977 
the observer 



St. Mary'~ parents against parietals extension 
byPatPayae The main reasons for such a tive students and parents? survey will bear as much weight in majority of the student body in large negative response, continued While a small number of parents the flnal decision as the students'. favor of extension of parietals. I'm 
The feelings of many parents Smits, are that parents feel 1) SMC were in favor of discontinuing "Especially the parents," she certain of that," Smits pointed out. with regard to any further extension is unique with respect ot limited visitation, the majority felt that the continued, "because they're the She continued, "Since we imagine of parietals "are negative," accor­parietals and should have the present policy is satisfactory. ones paying for their daughter's that a large portion of the student ding to Diane Smits, chairperson of courage to remain unique; and 2) Numerous surveys indicated that education." body is in favor of it, we will the committee studying Saint parents fear an extension of parie­soine parents are opposed to any Smits then pointed out that the probably propose an extension of Mary's visitation regulations. tals will infringe on the personal further extension of parietals. student surveys should all be parietals." 
This was the major response to privacy of those students not in A large number of parents held distributed by today. The R.A.'s Smits outlined the procedure of the parietals survey sent to all favor of it. the position that extended parietals will hand them out to their sec-future action to be taken by the parents, 200 alumnae and the The survey posed four major would infringe on students' privacy tions, and they will be responsible committee. "The complete report Board of Regents. last month, questions which inquired: 1) Are and would hamper their academic for returning the surveys by Sun-should be ready by the end of Smits noted. It was also distribu­you satisfied or dissatisfied with progress. They feel it would also day. February, when it will be presented ted to the faculty and administra­the present parietal situation? 2) impair St. Mary's image. to the Student Assembly. It will tion. Are you in favor of, opposed or The faculty and administration Student Surveys Important then appear before the Student 
-Smits also noted, "Although indifferent to an extension of parie­results have been compiled, and Affairs Committee and the Acad­actual percentages are not yet tal? 3) How will this affect the Smits commented that opinions Smits stressed, "We need a emic Council.'' She proceeded,available, a ·very large number of image that St. Mary's projects to were evenly spread between those large return from the student ''The proposal will then go to Dr. 
P~!ents !:_esp~~ed to til_~urvey. '' the SMC-ND "v'1'"'"""" opposed to and in favor of an body.'' She added, "It's impera-Duggan's office.'' extension of parietals, although tive that every student fill it out and Smits predicted that the adminis­responses leaned towards opposi-return it. We must have at least a tration might possibly put heavy tion. 60 percent response for the survey emphasis on the views of parents 
Smits observed, "Some faculty to carry any weight, and we're and students. members expressed a desire to aiming for 75 to 80 percent." Smits concluded with an appeal abolish male visitation in dorms The parietals committee. _ com to all students, requesting that they altogether noting that increased posed of Cathy Harrahan, Peggy assist in compiling the statistics parietals would ruin the school, Rogers and Sherry Antonni, in from the parents, alumnae and while others were in favor oi addition to Smits, will place great students. The committee will meet eliminating parietals, taking a view emphasis on the results of student in the LeMans Rectangle Tuesday, that they infringe on one's personal surveys, Smits said. Feb. 8 at 8:30 p.m. and Wednes­freedom." "There's going to be a strong day, Feb. 9 at 9 ~m. 
Smits commented, "In the opin­ion of this committee, the parents', Board of Regents' and alumnae 
Some men just
Laundry delivery 
want responsibility. 
one day late 
Due to last Friday's weather conditions, laundry will be ap­proximately one day late. The 
I

laundry service will be open and operating on Saturday from 7:30
The Wednesday night fasters held a Mass in the Walsh Hall a.m. to 11:30 p.m.
Chapellast.night during the dinner hour. (photo by Barb Dodge) 


rAI11en­
seektt. (, • 
Valen~ne's Day 


The Marl~="""'""
for a few good men. ' , .. •Iff: 
Apply now for leadership • 'fj--;J, ~
Classified Ads 
training this summer. 
•· 

Tell your Valentine and the world how you really feel! 

. " 

\ ·' 
• ­

Ads will be taken in_the 
No On-Campus TrainingObserver office Everyday 
Officer's Commission Upon Graduation



until5,_ 
See the Marine Officer Selection Team 
Valentine Special: Up to 10 words for $1.00! 

LaFortune FEB 2-4 
Feeling depressed? ND-SMC Hot­line 4-4311. Open nights.


Classified Ads
NOTICES 

AHention: In you're interested in Will teach you flute In your spare Lost: one of at En­Real Estate: For sale: 38 acres, meeting some intelligent, aHradive
pair glasses

Tickets for the Feb. 23 Bruce time. Call Beth 8112. Three Rivers Michigan. 150 rods of women, the place to be is at the
gineering Bldg. on last Friday. 
frontage. 616-968-3212 after 6 p.m. Bar tonite
Springsteen & The E Street Band Senior for Senior Wo­
Please contact Kevin at 283-1655. 
concert at the Auditorium Theatre in men's night.
FOR RENT stereo
Chicago are now on sale at the River AUDIO OUTLET: top name
Lost: Laroe brown necklace with
City ticket outlets: Just For The equipment. WHOLESALE. Call SINGLE, try Matchmaker for a new
sunburst and palm tree near CCE or
Completely furnished houses rang­283-1181. ing to seven Box 
Record (I 00 Center) and Boogie way of meeting other singles. Write
S. H. Church. Sr. Elaine-1829 or
Records (College Square). from two bedrooms 7856. . P.O. 214, Mishawaka, Ind. 
available for summer or next Sept­For Sale: University regulation size Enclose a stamped envelope. But you've got to have friends. Gay 
ember. Call 234-9364 Mrs. Hum­refriderator. Call 1693 between 7-12 Community of Notre Dame. Phone buger. evenings. Bohemian Club, We're psyched for
WANTED

8870 Fri. 8. Sat. 10-12. the sunny day ahead. (You gottaTwo bedroom house to rent. Sum­TIME -$.25 per week. Sports love it!!) Newcomers to the Ladies
Wanted: Ride to Toledo for this
mer and-or school year. 1012 Eddy llhtstrated $.21 per week. The best plus utilities. Call to Call 
Informal gathering of students and Auxiliary (St. Mary's College Chap­
weekend. Call Paggy, 8125.
professors of the Sociology Dept. Street. $120 mo. prices be found. Rick at ter).
OODlES HARRIS at 232-8563. 272-6229 after 5:30 p.m.
7:30 p.m., Feb. 4, International 
Babysitter for 2 year old boy either
Student's LOunge, LaFortune. Earth to Deebles!!Come in Deebles!
Monday, Wednesday or Friday mor­ning 9 a.m.-1 p.m. Near University. 
2 rooms $40 a mo. 233-1329. 
MORRISSEY LOAN FUND PERSONALS Sabrina, I got the Personals in. Is
Call 232-9541.
520-150. 1 day wait. 1 percent there anything else you want in? interest. Due in 30 days. LaFortune Monarch Strikes again!!
LOST& FOUND Tonite is Senior Women's nite at the
Urgently need 6-8 S. Carolina GA 
Senior Bar--so be there! That means LOst: One white knit hat belonging you, Senior Men! Now's the time to of Come to Basement. M-F. 11:15-12:15. 
tix. Call John 1188_ 
Varn Borneo: home Accurate, fast typing. Mrs. Donoho. to Mary. Last seen between my meet that girl you've been looking dinner. All is forgiven. Varn of
Needed: 3 South Carolina tickets.
teeth while I was blitzed. If someone for the past four years!
232-0746. Hours: 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. Borneo
doesn't find it I will have to have my Call 6931 ask for Dan. stomach pumped. If found call Tom
Want to send your sweetie or secret Check out the Village Inn's Bucket At 12:01 Katie's going to be 21.
288-8417. Wanted: Future business partner. Rd. Mem­
Brigade (Hickory only)
love a liHie candy for Valentine's C. D.
Needed: 4 GA tix to San. Fran. Give
Day? Unable to get around to it? bership entitles you to: 1 bucket of 
me a buzz at 1089, Dave.
Order it in the Dining Halls Feb. Found: a watch in A. C. C. last week. beer (5.5 liters), 5$1.00 off coupons Farley Hotel takes reservations daily. 6-7. We will deliver it! Limited Call Pete 232-7670. for 16 inch pizza, 1 personalized between 4 :30-5:30 p.m. Guests must:· 
Need ride to Chicago area or Grand
amounts at $.75 an order. Metal Bucket to hang permanently be pre-paid and registered.
Rapids this Friday (Feb. 4). Call
LOst: My new Christmas present from out ceiling with your name and USED BOOKS. BOOK BARN. 1 date of membership. All for only To Mary Kate and Robin, your very
from Uncle Herbie -a red stocking 1600. hat -possibly on shuHie bux. Call $7.95
mile north of Notre Dame. 272-5520. own personal. Tom
BBA: Interested in working as Student Union Comptroller? Call 
Tom 288-9916. 
Greyhound Bus tGI Chicago. Leav~ Varn or Borneo: Come home to Leslie, Good luck with you interview
Lost: a Cross pen and an assignment Steve (1139 l or Colleen (7921) for dinner. All is forgiven. Varn of
Main circle every Friday at 5 :45 at BC! Lisa
appointment.
book. Call Tom 7843. Thanks!
p.m. Call Tom at 8338 for reserva­Borneo tions and further info. To the men we told to read the
Help! Girlfriend needs a ride FROM
Lost: Left brown ski glove Sat. night 106 DAYS TO GRADUATION!! personals this week: WE LOVE
Lansing (MSUl TO NO this weekend
Papers professionally typed. Tele­at Library or Nickles, call Beorge Party saturday night at Notre Dame YOU!
3365. or any future weekend. Will share
phone evenings 272-8308. Apartments, 820 NO Ave. Apt. 3B, Bob, Moon, Tex, 8. Chip Crackerjack, Happy 21st!! wishing:_
Will whoever ACCIDENTLY picked up a bag (with my overalls, gloves, Help! Need two basketball GA The Hickory Rd. Village Inn's bright-smiles. Lightning Over Ver CONTACT LENS Wearers. Save on etc.) that was in the closet at the on Feb. Bucket Brigade challenges the Mug 
A.G.R. Grand Opening soon! you many happy moments and 
tickets for South Carolina 
sallies Europe. Peanut Twister

12. Call Mike or Ann at 272-5884 
your hard and soflens supplies. party on Cedar St. please return to Club to even try to drink 20 of our Send for FREE price list. Contacf Dear 1427 (Holiday), when are you
304 Lyons. (Chris 7933 ). after 7 p.m. buckets of beer!! Lens Supply Center, 341 E. Camel­coming over to oom and zorch over back, Phoenix, AZ 85012. Lost: Hewlett-Packard HP-25 in Tonite is California night at the some great American food & bever-· 
FOR SALE

Room 205 Engineering Bldg. last Senior Bar-drink specials 9-1. so be ages? If's a small world, after all! The Neon Wilde Band: Now avail­week. Call Tom at 8348 to help me. there!! 
The better half of 1126, Chas.

ADIDAS: SALE (instock) T-shirts
able for parties, concerts, formal5, Found: a pair of glasses Fri. night. $2-5 Golf shirts $8-10 Catalog orders
etc. Call 7996 9-5 or 277-3448 after Dear Friend, Thanks for the Daffodil Raggedy Ann and Andy, How bou
too (2 days). Chris 7933.
5. Lee 1670. please call. Appreciative. those cookies???S. B. 


the observer Thursday, February 3, 1977 
Recruiting: a pressure business 

by Monte Towle Sports Writer 
The foUowing is the third in a four-part series concerning coUege recruiting of high school athletes. The final segment wHl appear tomorrow. 
Albert King is a 6'6" high school senior in a Brooklyn school. He also happens to be one of the best high school basketball players in the country. As written in a Sports IDustrated issue last August, " ...e­very college in the country that wants a national basketball cham­pionship is after him ... they have been watching him since he was 14; that's when the terrible pres­sures began to build." 
Often overlooked in the college 
· recruiting business is the tremen­dous pressure felt by some of the top prospects as they are recruited by colleges all over the country. What most recruiters don't realize is that these high school players are only teenagers still growing up while still trying to take in their respective high school lives. Some coaches are not only unsympathetic with the pressures felt by the high school prospects, they expect them to handle it in stride. "I think all high school kids survive the recruiting process," Washington State's George Ravel­ing expressed. "We don't live in the cotton candy existence that educators like to expound. These kids have to learn that college sports recruiting is big business. How life is really lived and how it should be lived are two different things." Albert King began experiencing the big business life when he was only 14 years old. The younger brother of Tennessee star Bernard King, Albert caught the eye of scouts with his extraordinary skills at an early age. The Sports mustrated article gave an indication of the younger King's talents by quoting George Murden, a coach in the Bedford­Stuyvesant Restoration's youth division. "He's much better than either Abdui-Jabbar or Connie Hawkins was at that age (14)," he said. "In fact, I believe he's better than any high school player in the city right now." King certainly was a basketball star at this early age, having the ability to dribble, shoot and dunk the ball in various manners remini­scent of a present day Julius Erving. Word was quickly out on 

his unique ·basketball abilities and it wasn't long before he found himself unable to hide from ·the. pressures of the sports world. Everybody wanted to know him, to touch him, to play basketball with him. Even high schools were · recruiting him. . 
One high school wanted him to come so that he could escape the_ ghetto environment he was in. It . was so bad, that the entire town was after him. Not only were·they ready to make him· mayor,. the wealthy citizens of the eastern tow:n . were ready to back him with free clothes, free food, an apart~ent and other luxuries And this was only high school! · 
For a period of time, Albert King went into seclusion, seeking to avoid the pressures which were bound to destroy him before he was out of high school. They didn't. Today, he is a senior at · Fort Hamilton High School; one of. the nation's best players on.an average high school team. He is probably . the most highly recruited player in the nation right now. ·. 
Not only is the. New York area a favorite of college basketball re-. cruiters, there are many parts of the country that produce their fair share of players. Various coaches have their own favorite regions for searching for future talent. 
Vermont coach Pete Salzberg is content to concentrate his searches· within the confines of the East. 
"We set up our recruiting on a geographical basis," Salzberg des­cribed. "We concentrate our re­cruiting in Pennsylvania, New York, New Jersey, and New Eng­land. Beyond this area, we only go after those players taller than 6'7", We can get enough shorter players around here." · 
Salzberg does admit that Califor-. nia probably has the most good high school basketball players in the country. However, he and · Villanova coach Rollie Massimino are quick to point out that the supply of high school players has grown much larger in recent years because there are more people available to play the sport. . 
Meanwhile, UCLA coach Gene Bartow sees a variation in the inost productive regions of the country unlike Washington State coach George Raveling who sticks to the Midwest for his main supply of talent. 
''The most productive region of · the country varies from year to year," Bartow theorized. "One year it can be the West Coast 
-by its electrical scoring, which 
. designates when the touches hit, and if the touches ate in a valid target area. . The entire torso, front and back, 
comprises the valid target area. This excludes the head, arms, and whereas. in another year it could be the Midwestor the East." 
"One highly recruited California native who chose to head Midwest to play for Notre Dame instead of 
· staying near· home is Rich Bran­iting. Now.a freshman guard for the Fighting Irish,. Branning was re­cognized around the country as a bonafide blue chipper, the type of prospect who could help a college team immediately. While being recruited; Branning was able to ward off the pressur;es that accom­pariy otller high school products 
. like him-Albert King for instance. 
"I 'started being scouted be­tween my ·.sophomore and junior years in high school," recalled 'Bt:aiming. "But it wasn't until after my junior year that college coaches teally·began talking to me. When I look back,· I can say that recruiting ·was an enjoyable thing for me. I 
· guess I was lucky.'' 

Maybe some luck, but it pro­babl)f had something to do with the organizational work carried out by the-California native along with his parents and coach. In this way, Branning .was able to ward off incessant -pe&tering of coaches while concentrating on his school­work and playing basketball his senior year. · 
"'My parents, coach and I met before my senior year and began to set some guidelines," Branning .stated. "Coac;:hes knew if they didn't follow the rules, then I would 
drop  consideration  for  their  
schools.".  ·  
Once  his  high  school  began  

_practice on 'November 1 of his secnior year, Branning limited himself to accepting only one coach's call per weekend. When the season actually began, the 6'3" guard· no longer accepted any phone calls. Only his parents and coach were· allowed to talk to coaches over the phone. · "Aslong as schools kept in touch with me through letters, then I kept them in my considerations," Bran­ning admitted. "Eventually though, I narrowed my prospective list to 25 schools; those that really 
-showed interest in me. I would have been wasting both my time · and the time of the school if I had kept them hanging on the line even 
Women fencers prepare 
by EUeen O'Grady ND Women's Sports Editor 

One of the most successful women's teams at Notre Dame is the women's varsity fencing team . 
.At the same time, it is probably the least well known. 
This year;s squad returns with definite ·contenders for the Great Lakes Tournament and other Wo­men's National Tournaments, as well. They deserve some attention. 
Since the varsity ruling last May, 
. the former ND-SMC fencing club split into two separate teams. The Irish team now consists of: Cathy Buzard, Terri Foley, Karen Lacity, Chris Marciniak, Trish O'Donnel, and Kathy Valdiserri. All but Foley return experienced to the squad. 
Valdiserri is the real veteran of the ·team. A former Great Lakes Fencing Champion, and winner of the Indiana State Divisionals for two ~onsecutive years; she captains the women again this year. 
Coach Tom Coye calls her a "hard competitor and the mainstay ofthe team." He adds: "I expect an excellent performance from her during the regular season and in the Great Lakes Competition again this year." 
All the women compete only in foil competition, unlike the men who fence foil, epee, and sabre. 
Foil fencing is best distinguished Rola Massimino is one of the 
most successsful recruiters in the country. if I wasn't really interested in "When college recruiters came them." to watch me my senior year, they 
As a conscientious high school · weren't coming to see i~ I was goo~ 
1 athlete, Branning made it a point to enough to play for thetr schools, be familiar with NCAA recruiting Branning divulged. "They were rules. By the time that -the heavy coming to my games o.nly to let me recruiting began, he understood ,~now that t~.ey were still very much what was right and wrong regard-mterested. , ing eligibility and financial aid. And wh~ wouldn ~ have ~een 
interested m Branmng? Bestdes "I~ any s~hools had attempted to being a first team All-American recrutt me tllegally, I wo~ld h~ve selection by Parade magazine and a put them out of constderatton member of Sport magazine's imm~?iately," Branning conten~-"dream team" for 1976, he was an ed. . ~f y~u &et caught up . m excellent student having carried a recruttmg vt~lattons, t~en yoll: have 3.3 average in high school. Rich to pay the prtce. There s nothmg to Branning was the type of high gain by cheating in recruiting for school prospect that college those schools involved." coaches drool about. He was a blue 
Even with the restrictions im-chipper who knew how to keep posed on those recruiters going himself out of recruiting hassles after Branning, he was still quite while a high school student. Other aware of their almost constant standout high school athletes presence. Only by accepting this as sometimes are unaware of the routine was Branning able to keep legalities of college recruiting. his mind on his playing for every We'll examine that in our next game. segment. 
legs. sity: "With two teams, more girls 
The sabre and epee events are can compete since there are two still considered too dangerous for starting line ups." women to compete in. The blades The women are very lucky in are constructed for rougher body their work outs to be able to contact, and the actual competition practice with the men's team. "It's involves more body target area. the best kind of bouting experience 
Also, the protective clothing they can get before a meet," states epee and sabre fencers wear, must Coye. be durable but lightweight, so not This year, the women are also to hinder their movements. Thus a lucky to have the direction of Risto bout can easily result in slashes or Hurme for their foot and leg drills. welts to the fencers. Hurme, a three-time national 
The object in a fencing bout is to epee champion, and competitior in touch the opponent five times in the last two Olympics, leads all the the usual four minutes allotted for teams at once in the drills. each bout. Ifthe score is tied at the The coach himself is also a new end of the time, both fencers addition to the team, thanks to the continue to fence until a valid touch . varsity benefits. is scored. He graduated from Notre Dame 
Presently the women fence a in 1975, having fenced foil here all nine bout competition against each four years, and captained his senior college, having to take at least five year. matches to win the meet. While here, he won the "Out-
They also compete within them-standing Foil Fencer Award," and selves for the top three positions on the "Walter Langford Award," the team, which comprises the both Notre Dame awards. This is starting lineup. his first coaching experience. 
Fencing -is a rigorous sport for At present, the only other home the women. A daily work-out tournament scheduled for the usually includes calisthentics, run-women will be against Case Wes­ning, foot and leg movement drills, tern Reserve and Miami of Ohio, on individual fencing lessons with the March 5. coach, and actual bouting exper-But Coye hopes to fit in a match ience with the electrical equip-between the Notre Dame team and ment. St. Mary's team. "I want to do it 
As hard as it sounds, Coye •.vhen both teams are at their insists that anyone can take up peak," explains Coye. "It should fencing. Terri Foley is a good be interesting, since both teams example. A freshman, she never are pretty evenly matched." fenced before. But due to the size As far as the rest of the season, of the team she is already compet-Captain Valdiserri claims: "Wis­ing at the varsity level. consin, Wayne State, and Ohio 
Coye claims this is one of their State should all be tough." But so best advantages since going var-are the Irish. 








