
server 
Vol. XII, No. 39  an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's  ·  Tuesday, November 1, 1977  
'  . .......  - '  .  
Trustees meet; discuss CLC,  
he!!.!!Port~ .9!t~a!~ewa!nJ.ngSenior Staff Reporter CLC will be composed of rectors, The revision was  "looked upon  
In  action  taken  at  its  Oct.  21  hall vice-presidents, and represent- with favor" by the Board, accord­ 
meeting,  the  Universityboard .of  atives from Student Government,  ing  to  James  Murphy,  assistant  
Trustees abolished the Student Ltfe  Student  Union,  the  Hall  Presi­ vice-president for Public Relations  
Council (SLC) and established the  dents' Council, the Faculty Senate  and  Developkment,  in  a  written  
Campus Life Council (CLC), .agre~d  and the administration.  The new  summary of the meeting.  
with  a  revision of the Umverstty  group will be primarily concerned  He explained tnat  tne  Ltustees  
disciplinary  procedures,  and  ~e­ with issues of campus and hall life.  were not required to formally act on  
viewed  the  matter  of  collective  In a related action, the trustees  the matter.  Paczesny added that  
bargaining  efforts  by  both  the  created  an  off-campus  council,  the revisions had been approved by  
groundskeepers and the faculty.  which  was  recommended by  the  the SLC and by University Presi- 
The trustees also heard~reports  Student Affairs Committee.  The  dent  Fr.  Theodore  Hesburgh.  
from a number of Board COIJfmit­ council will  focus  on  off-campus  These were the normal procedures  
tees and approved a Statement of  life, just  as  the  CLC deals  with  . for such a revision, he said, and the  
Mutual Commitments between the  campus life.  The two groups will  presentation to the Board was for  
University and the Congregation of  remain separate however.  •  informational purposes.  
the  Holy  Cross,  in  addition  to  Vice-President for STudent Af­ 'The trustees heard reports;  on  
considering other matters.  fairs  Bro.  Just  Paczesny  said  cofli!ctive  bargaining  efforts  by  
The  nine-year  old  SLC  was  yesterday that he is in the process  both the groundskeepers and the  
replaced by the CLC at the recom­ of forming the CLC and plans to  faculty.  Even while the  trustees  
mendation of Dave Bender, student  have  it  functioning  within  two  considered these issues, approxi­ 
body president, who presented the  weeks.  Paczesny also will set up  mately 75 persons participated in a  
proposal to the Board last spring.  the off-campus council.  He said he  demonstration of support for the 21  
The  Student  Affairs  Committee  had not yet decided on its composi­ groundskeepers  seeking  union  
accepted Bender's proposal to the  tion or personnel.  membership with the Tff·amsters.  
Board last spring.  The  Student  The extensive  revision  of Uni- The demonstrators marched to the  
Affairs Commitee accepted Bend­ versity disciplinary procedures was  Center for  Continuing education,  
er's proposal Oct. 20 and submitted  ordered this summer by the trus­ where  the  Board  meeting  was  
it to the Board for final approval.  tees, after the occurence of "cer­ being held.  
The tri-partite SLC, composed of  tain celebrated cases" last spring,  Murphy said that because of the  
"Sp iderman strikes again," w inning las t night's  students, faculty andcostume contest in  administra­ and was drawn up by the admini­ recent  controversy  over  actions  
tors, was created by the trustees as  stration and the Student Govern- concerning the groundskeepers, it 
Ste pan Center. Photo by Ron  Szot  a  groups  to  consider  University  ment working under the auspices of  was this groups which commanded  

more attention from the trustees. They reviewed Hesburgh's Oct. 14 statement on the groundskeepers
Saga takes over ND dining facilities 
controversy. "the concensus was that the University is not opposed 
by Maureen Sajbel grams and continuation of present Bob Robinson was contracted as food preference sUrveys. to the principle of collective bar­Senior Staff Reporter university employee policies. Larry the Senior Food Service Director University food service emplo­gaining but that the. right to 
The University of Notre Dame Berkel, district manager of Saga, and two Food Service Co-ordina­yees' reactions ranged from confu­organize does not necessarily mean announced last week that Saga stated that the Jan. 1 20cent per tors, Terry O'Leary and Carson sion to optimism. "I was surprised the necessity to organize;" Murphy Food Service Incorporated will hour increase for the university's Wells, joined the Saga staff. by the suddenness of it,'' remarked related. assume management and operation non-academic staff will apply to the Edmund Price, former director of one worker, •'but I really think that A Statement of Mutual Commit­of all its dining facilities, effective food service employees under the food services, will now act as a it will be to our advantage." With ment between the Universitv anrl 
today. saga management. liason officer between Saga and the regard to the formation of a union the Con~gation of the holy Cross 
In a press release, Notre Dame Personnel Director G. Thomas University. Price was unavailable another employee, said the she (C. S.C.) was approved by ·the officials stated that the reasons for Bull, declared that the "Notre for comment. was"laying low to see what hap­trustees. Murphy described this contracting an outside firm are · Dame employees will be trans­Bull emphasized that the change pens to the groundskeepers." as a"philosophical statement "economic." The service will ferred to the Saga payroll and be to Saga "does not diminish emplo­One Huddle employee expressed which re-affirms the role of the operate both the North and South retained. No one will be subject to yee rights to seek unionization," his concern • • as to what will happen C.S.C. in the University." He said Dining halls, the Huddle and the losing his iob." Berkel added that Sar.l!-"does have from here," but added that he the statement will be signed by 
Oak Room. Currently 215 employees are in­. unionized accounts, .but that believed "things will stay the same members of the University and the 
In a letter to the employees, Saga volved in food services and, under these were "very few." He stated for the current year at least." The C.S.C. in a formal ceremony on assured the food workers' job the new system, three new man­that Saga "liked the direct relation­Groundskeepers' Rights Coalition Nov. 26, marking the 13Sth anni­security, wage and benefit pro-agement employees will be added. ship with employees," and " does started their concern last night for versary of the founding of Notre 
not feel that a union is necessary." the food service workers and urged Dame. Saga to clarify its policies to The Student Affairs Committee
Lawyer attacks University er!'::d!~~ ~~~~!~~ ~~~~~C:s ~i alleviate any employee anxiety additionally presented reports on remain the same as they were about employment status and ben­social space and renovation of efits. (contfnoecl on page 4]
Concern·.ng Groundskeepers under the l.!niversity, as~u~ed Bull,
but the stck leave pobctes were by Dave Rombacb larger bargaining unit, they slightly expanded. Employees may Senior Staff Reporter should have indicated so in the now Jet their five days per year 
Addressing about SO members open letter. "The only conclu-allowances accumulate over a peri­of the Groundskeeper's Rights sion that I can come to is that od of one calendar year. Coalition last night, Teamster they did it to avoid unionization,'' Student workers will not be I lawyer Edwll!d ~illenworth .ac-Fillenworth stated. adversely affected, according to j cused the Umverstty of renegmg Thomas Masson, Notre Dame Berkel. He explained that they will on promises made in University vice-president for Business af-keep their present pay and hours I President Fr. Hesburgh's Oct. 14 fairs, asserted in a statement and will be able to participate in 
l!

letter and announced th.at an released yesterday, that the Uni-Saga's training development pro-unfair labor prac~ces s~tt has versity's desire to ~reate a larger gram for employment in the food been filed once agam agamst the unit of representation was based industry following graduation. i University with the National La-in part on a Teamster's petition The Saga firm serves 408 colleges bor Relations Board. to unionize a "select group of and universities, including St. 
In an open letter published in employees in the Notre Dame Mary's, and has been negotiating the Oct. 14 Observer, Hesburgh laundry in addition to the since 1972 for the Notre Dame 
I
j

stated that the attorney repre-groundskeepers." This action, contract. Arrangements with the I senting Notre Dame before the according to the statement, company were finalized within the NLRB had been instructed to "posed an intolerable and unfair past year. t "work with the NLRB 1in or~er burden on the University and Bull stated that Saga hoped to that a representation election many of its employees." "improve the food service over a may be held for the grounds crew Fellinworth contended, period of time." He expressed a employees without undue de-howewer, that the University is hope that the new service, because lay." Last Wednesday,. however, not solely concerned about union-of its volume purchasing, would the attorney representmg Notre ization in groups other than the slow the rate of increasing food Dame in the current NLRB groundskeepers but is attempt-costs to the students. The co-ex­hearing announced the Univers-ing to thwart organization in all change program, he added, would ity's position that the 21 grounds-groups, including the grounds remain the same. keepers did not constitute a crew. Berkel said the change in the "proper unit" for unionization Fillenworth asked the Univers-food service at Notre Dame would and that the only possible unit ity's attorney to agree to an be gradual. He stated that the ;.:~,;:•::=~ eithe• " smmn• o' "h...,.;ng aroun:l" Satu•day il, consisted of at least 405 "service election for the 21 grounds-Notre Dame system was already of 
when s•i!l another chapter in the continuing Notre Dame-USC 
and maintenance" employees.. keepers provided that the Team-high quality and that Saga would saga was ·.'1ritte"'' ~t Notr~ Dame Staaium. Playing the parts of 
! . 

"The word of this universtty sters follow certain conditions. "try to improve that quality where ~he Greeks inside tl-:!:; towering gift-horse were the Irish has been broken by its attorney," "Ifwe win we will bargain for the they could." He revealed his plan i:ri-\'aptains. His~ory ,cpeated itself, as it does cr.ly in ~ Fillenworth charged, adding that groundskeepers and won't file for to tailor the system to the Notre mythc!ogy and fairy tails . .:md Troy t9ppled to the tune of 4~·19. ~ if the University had desired a [continued on page 2] Dame students through the u:.e of 
. fPhoto bv leo Hansen~6. ,..,..,__,_..,.....__.._.~,,....,""""_""""_.J.. 
~-------------------~~---~ ~ 
the Observer Tuesday, November 1, 1977 
On Campus Today 
7 pm 7pm 7:30pm 
7:30 pm 
6:30 am 

meeting, bicycle club, new members welcome, basement of Iafortune. 
workshop, skill identification, taught by leslie wilson, mccandless hall, smc. 
lecture-discussion series, augustine-confessions, rm 247 madeleva hall, smc, open to the public. 
discussion, "mothers and communication" chestor ywca-women's center, cost  pediatricians: castor, m.d., of $2.  paths to at the  
Wednesday Nov. 2  

a.m. this morning, featuring jeff hebig, sue ursitti, & wendy griffin, on wsnd 640 a.m. 
St. Mary's HPC meets 
The St. Mary's Presidents Coun­cil, (HPC) in its second year of existence, held its first meeting Thursday before October break to discuss goals for the upcoming year. 
The main goals are to increase communication between the resi-
Mideast peace subject of forum 
"Peace in the Middle East" is the subject of a conference to be held today in Carroll Hall at St. Mary's. 
The meeting is sponsored jointly by the United Religious Commun­ity of St. Joseph's County and St. 
~e goal of the conferen~e ts to provtde a forum for pubhc discussion of peace in the Middle 

Teamsters present Proposal ~ary's. 
[continued from page 1] any other group until a contract is negotiated," the lawyer said. "If we Jose we agree to stay away from all units for a year although by law we would only be prevent­ed from approaching those units in which we had lost," Fillen­worth explained. The final condition of the Teamster's pro-. posal provided that should nego­tiations bog down the agreement would terminate six months after the elections 
''They would have agreed to the suggestion if they were concerned only about other groups but obviously they were concerned about all," Fillen­worth declared. Dr. Jaime Sena-Rivera opened the meeting with a review of the coalition's activities since its organization two weeks ago. The coalition sponsored a march to the Center for Continuing Educa­tion on Friday, October 28 durin~ a meeting of the Notre Dame Board of Trustes. The estimated 75 marchers found the doors of the CCE locked and chained and security guards posted at every door according to Sena-Rivera. 
Professor Ed Gaffney, modera­tor of the meeting, requested that members of the media leave the room during the second half of the meeting, a "strategy ses­sion." 
In a statement issued at the close of the second session, the coalition expressed their concern about "the seniority, ranking and retirement benefits of the uni­versity employees transferred to Saga Foods," and called upon the university to "make public what steps have been taken to safeguard these rights. The statement also called on the University to abide by Fr. Res­burgh's pledge to allow the groundskeepers to choose their bargaining agent. 
East. Perspectives of both sides pf the conflict will be presented by Joseph Khalili and Irving Katz, 
guest lecturers. The conference is divided into three sessions, one of which was held this morning. The second will begin at 2 p.m. until 5 p.m., break for dinner, and return at 7 p.m. for the final two and a half-hour segment. Students with ID's will be admitted free of charge. All others will be charged $1 for each session. 
The Observer Is published Mon­d•y through Frld•y except during ex•m •nd vacation periods. The Observer Is published by the students of Notre D•me •nd S•lnt M•ry's College. Subscriptions may be purch•sed for $20 per ye•r (S 1 o per semester) from The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre D•me, tndl•n• 46556. Second ct•ss post•ge p•ld, Notre D•me, lndl•n•, 46556. 
The Observer is • member of the Anocl•ted Pren. All repro­duction rights •re reaerved. 


An open letter to the community 
To the Faculty, Staff and Student Body of the 
Unlversltv: 
For the administration and as .1nother week begins I would like to comment on the current labor-management negotiations involving the Chauffeurs, Teamst.er1; and Helpers Local Union No. .1M and the University of Notre Dame. 
It is neither prudent nor practicable, of course, to discuss in the public media every difficult admin­istrative decision. We do so, however, in this instance because of the fairly widespread misunder­standing among the campus community and others of the University's posture with reference to the Teamster's union. Notre Dame's proposed action on the groundskeeper!> issue was misinterpreted by ·;ome as at variance with moral principles which should be exemplified by officials of a Catholic ,miversity. Nothing could be further from the truth. 
We now wish to repeat some of the points made by the President of the University, Father Res­burgh, in his "open letter" of October 14th. In addition we are offering some comments on developments since that date. 
I. The decision to subcontract out the grounds­keeping work was made to effect economies. The jnhs of the present grounds maintenance staff were :o he guaranteed with some of the men hired by the outside contractor and others assimilated in other University departments. Unfortunately in retro­spect. the University was forestalled in communi­cating its intention to the workers. Our legal counsel cautioned that such a communication might be construed as an unfair labor practice by the union. 
~. The l1 niversity of Notre Dame, consonant with the law of our country and the social teachings of the Church, recognizes fully the right of employees to organize or join a labor union. We trust, however. that our employees will weigh intelligently the appropriateness as well as the advantages and uis.tdvantages of a particular union and the impact of 1heir decision on themselves, their families and the University community. As duly elected officers of the University with the responsibility for the overall welfare of Notre Dame, we believe we have the obligation to express our considered views on the effects of a pro-union decision. 
J. The University administration, faced with the awesome responsibility of maintaining a financially viable institution in times of continuing inflationary pressures, reserves the right to contract out support serviees where economy and efficiency are at stake. We exercised this right in the past in the plant maintenance area with no apparent economic loss to any of the workers involved. It is in this context and with the prospect of affecting considerable econ­omies that the University, on October 26, 1977, signed a contract with the Saga organization for the management of its dining halls. This was not a spur-of-the-moment decision as it had been pre­ceded by several years of study' and discussion. We found it to be a necessary step at this time to help fund the recently announced wage and benefit increases for the University's hourly-rated em­ployees. (These 1ncreases have aggravated substan· ttal budget deftcits both for the current fiscal year 19"'"'·78 and for the academic year 1978-79.) Again, one of our ch1ef concerns was for our present food service employees. Every single one, with the exception of the Director of Food Services, Mr. Price. will be retained on Saga's payroll. Mr. Price himself will move into another position at the University. 
4. 
As Father Hesburgh mentioned in his "open letter", the University administration decided, largely because of the community's misunder­standing of the issues, to cooperate with the Teamsters' request for a representation election for the twenty-one groundskeepers. We instructed Notre Dame's counsel to propose to the union a specific date, time and place for the groundskeepers election. 

5. 
The University administration's faith in the Chauffeurs, Teamsters and Helpers Local No. 364 was shattered, however, when on Saturday, October 22, 1977, we read in The South Bend Tribune that the union had mailed a petition to the National Labor Relations Board seeking a representation election for a selected group of employees in the Notre Dame laundry in addition to the _groundskeepers. The union's action wa!> verified when the University's Personnel Director, Mr. Bull, received a certified letter containing similar information on Monday, October 24th. 


In our view this posed an intolerable and unfair burden on the University and many of its employees. Notre Dame has a total of some 413 employees in the ·'Service and Maintenance'' category, all of whom operate under the same personnel policies and guidelines. Included are the groundskeepers, ·laun­dry workers, maids and janitors, the stadium and. golf course crew, the Athletic and Convocation Center staff, and others. We concluded that all of these employees--not just the groundskeepers and selected laundry workers--should be allowed to decide whether they wished to be represented by a union and if, in fact, the Teamsters is their choice. It seems to us that this is a far more reasonable approach both for the University and its employees than to be subjected to segmentation tactics by the Teamsters. We are also informed that precedent is on the University's side in several cases (George­town and Tulane, for example) decided by the NLRB. 
6. Through its legal counsel the University madeits position known at a meeting held before an NLRB hearing officer on Wednesday, October 26, 1977. We trust that our position will prevail in which case all our service and maintenance employees will be given an opportunity to exercise their right and to decide a matter which bears heavily on their welfare and that of the University of Notre Dame. 
Thomas J. Mason~· 
dence halls at SMC, to improve 
communication between the stu­
dents and the Board of Government 
through section representatives 
and the Hall Councils, according 
to HPC Secretary Teresa Valdivia. They also intend to sponsor one large social event betweeen ND and St. Mary's. 
This year's HPC is comprised of 
Mary Jo Kelly of Holy Cross, Judy 
Ecklecamp of Le Mans, Teresa 
Valdivia of McCandless and Sue 
Glockner of Regina. 

CAP students 
to -,-eg;sfer--­
Committee for Academic Pro­gress (CAP) students are asked to pick up their registration material at the CAP office (338 O'Shaugh­nessy) on Tuesday, Wednesday, or Thursday of this week between 1 and 4 p.m. 

Senior Trip deposits returned 

Those members of the Senior Class who put down deposits and were unable to go on the San Francisco trip should submit a written request with reasons for cancellation in order to be con­sidered for a possible refund. The letter should be submitted by this Friday to Assistant Director of Student Activities John Reid and dropped off in Students Activities , office on the first floor of the LaFortune Student Center. 
*The Observer 
Night Editor: Leigh Tunakan Asst. Night Editor: Sandy Colson Layout Staff: Eve Tunkelrott, 
Dawn Miller Sports Layout: Paul Steven­son, Greg Solmon, Frank La­
Grotta Typists: Gwen Coleman, Sue Scribner, Mary Jo Cushing, Lisa DiValerio. Night Controller: Mike Bodle 
Day Editor: Tom Nilsson 
Copy Reader: Tom Byrne 
Photographer: Ron Szot 
DON'T MISS THE 
BOB HOPE Joey Heatherton SHOW 
with a 25 full pc orchestra 
NOV. 4th 8:30 Notre Dame 

A.C.C. 
RESERVED SEATS. $6, $8, $10, $12 A CEDR PRODUCTIUN 


Notre Dame Student Ut:~ion ~ Sun~hine Present 

SATURDAY NOVEMBER 5 7:30pm 
NOTRE DAME A.C.C. All Seats Reserved; $8.50 & $7.50 
On sale now at: ACC box oHioe, St.dent ticket oHioe, RDbertson's-S'. Bend & Concord Mall, Fir.>t Bank-Main Brandl only, St. Joe Bank & all brandies, Boogie Records, Just For The Record, Tlle Record Joint-Niles, Tlle Elkhart Truth 
•nd Suspended Cord in Elkhart River City Records, S. Band 
Tuesday, November 1, 1977 
the observer 


Halloween arrived at Notre Dame last night and among many haunted places on cam­pus was the Observer which received a late night [early morning?] visit from the Great Pumpkin. 






Board aproves duLac revisions 
by Marti Hogan Editor-in-Chief 
Student Government revision 
of Rules and Regulations section 
of duLac, the need for increased 
social space and the Campus 
Life Council (CLC) dominated the 
meeting of the Student Affairs 
Committee of the Notr~ 'Dame 
Board of Trustees held Oct. 20. 
Tom Byrne, student govern­ment press secretary began ·the meeting with an explanation of the revised rules and regulations. 
A few of the trustees questioned parts of the revision, but as a whole, it met with little or no oppostion. 
According to Jack Schneider, chairman of the student affairs committee, stated that the revi· sions were ready to be printed at the time of the meeting. 
Dean of Students james Roem­er announced yesterday that the Student Government revision of the rules and regulations has been approved by both the administration and the trustees and took effect yesterday. Roemer emphasized that the procedures and not the rules of the University have been changed. 
It was agreed that the rules and regulations section should be separate from duLac. Bender indicated that the biggest chal­lenge would be in communicating the changes to the students since the University does not plan to print copies for every undergrad­uate student. 
Bender and four other Student Government officials, however, plan to visit the halls during the next few weeks to familiarize students with the new proce­dures. Printing the revised document in the The Observer was suggested as a way to inform the students, but nothing definite was set. 
The problem of social space on campus was brought before the board again, but this time in the form of an audio-visual presenta­tion. Slides were shown of so-called "wasted space" in Holy Cross Hall and many halls with little or almost no social space such as sorin and Howard. 
Student Government also sub­mitted a social space proposal to the board. Schneider acknow­ledged social space as a problem that is mentioned every year, but said the committee itself could not act on the proposal. Instead, the committee presented the proposal to the entire Board of Trustees at the meetings the following d!lY· 
Brother Just Paszesny, vice president for Student Affairs, and member of the Board, how­ever committed himself to work with the social space committee this year. 
The SLC-CLC debate, first raised last April, was brought up again at this year's Board meet­ing.Schneider stated that since the Board of Trustees created the SLC, it is the board's role to 
decide whether the problem of the SLC's "ineffectiveness" in the past was poor leadership or poor structure. The committee 


Ifyou can't fly Continental, 
you may have to stay after schOol. 

It doesn't take a course in economics to know that Continental is the way to go for the holidays. Because we're pioneers in the area of discount fares. 
Like our Night Coach prices~ Fly at night and save a full 20% off the cost of a regular Day Coach ticket. 
Or, if you're off to Los Angeles, you'll save a bundle with our Super Coach fare­just $99 one way-and no restrictions! 
And only Continental has Economy Fares everywhere we fly-save 10% just by skipping a meal. 
No matter where you fly in Continental's USA-north, south, east or west-we've got a great schedule and a discount fare to fit your budget. And you'II still get the kind of service Continental is famous for. 
For more information about our money­
saving discount fares, call your campus rep, 
travel agent. or Continental at 686-6500, else­
where in Illinois Toll Free at (800) 972-7896. 
And remember, if you can't fly Continental, 
try to have a nice trip anyway. 
*NightCoachFaresgoodonlyon flights designated by Continental leaving between 9:00PM and 7:00AM. 
We really move our tail for you. 
agreed to present the proposal 
along with the arguments for 
retaining the present SLC which 
were presented by SLC chairman 
Pete Haley. 
LaFortune renovations were 

discussed in a more decisive 
manner as Paszesny revealed 
that the University recently re­
ceived a large sum of money from 
the LaFortune family to renovate 
the student center. 
The new renovation plans, 
which include a pub for 21-year 
olds, increased space for eating 
and studying and several small 
shops may be started this sum­
mer. 
Minority student representa­
tives attended the meeting to 
explain the reasoning behind the 
demonstration which took place 
last April as well as to restate 
their request for a minority 
student coordinator in the Stu­
dent Affairs office. 
Renard Gueringer, president 
of Black Cultural Arts Cotnmis­
sion,said students are occasional­
ly made to feel ·that they are 
inferior or oppressed. Schneider 
recognized that the awareness 
was a continuing problem, and 
encouraged minority students to 
keep lines of communication 
open. 
Student Body Vice President 
Tom Soma spoke briefly at the 
meeting to outline for the com­
mittee other activities in which 
Student Governemtn has been 
involved since last spring's meet· 
ing. 
The activities included the Logan 
budget cut controversy, the 
groundskeepers situation, the 
racial attitude forum with Stud­
ent Governement and the Black 
Cultural Arts Commission and 
Neighborhood Roots. 
Saints' Day. mass rescheduled 
All Saints· Day mass will be 
celebrated at 5 p.m. today in 
Sacred Heart Church. This even­
ing mass is usually scheduled for 5:15p.m. The mass will be celebrated by Rev. Edward Malloy, C.S.C. 

247 Dixieway North

CONTINENTAL AIRLINES 
The Proud Bird with the Golden Tail. ph. 277-3355 
Tuesday, November 1, 1977
the observer 

Board takes positive action 
[continued from paae 1] 
LaFortune student Center. "The 
co~~~:mittee s~ssed th~ need for 
addttonal soctal space tn campus 
residence halls," Murphy report­
ed. The committee also noted that 
new funds have been donated for 
renovation and development of 
~Fortu~e. The report was of an 
mformattonal nature and was not 
acted on by the board. 
Bender reacted yesterday to the trustee's considerations of student-related issues. "I'm really happy about the CLC," he said, adding that "it's not the end-all to student 
problems, but I think it's the best vehicle to deal '_Vi~ ~hem." 
He was optimtstic about the reaction to the social space report
presented by Student government to the Student Affairs Committee and was pleased that the Board had discussed the matter. "We have a verbal commitment that the five worst dorms on campus will be improved with regard to social 
Lewis movies to air tonight 

Two free movies will be shown tonight in the Lewis Hall recrea­tion room. The films, sponsored as part of 3-North section's "section week," are "The Hunchback of Notre Dame" and "Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde" Popcorn will also be available. 
Katz to offer 
mini-course 

A mini-course sponsored by the social science training and research laboratory entitled "Introduction to Questionnaire Development" be­gins today at 1:15 p.m. 
The course, taught by Bonnie Katz, will be held in Room SOt of the Memorial Library, and will consist of three additional meet­ings, on Nov. 8, Nov. 15 and Nov. 
2~----------~-------~ 
need resumes in a hurry? 

(~~ 
;. 

•nsty-pr•nls• 
the wiz of the printing biz! 

rag bond 2 5 -8 1/2 X 1 1 $2. 55 203 N. Ma1n 
SoBend 289-697 
INTERNATIONAL CAREER? 

A representative will be on the campus 
TUESDAY 
NOVEMBER 8, 1977 to discuss qualifications for advanced study at AMERICAN GRADUATE SCHOOL and job opportunities in· the field of 

INTEINATIONA1 MANAGEMENT 
Interviews may be scheduled at 
PLACEMENT OFFICE 

AMERICAN OUDUATE SCHOOL Of INTERNATIONAl MANAGEMENT Thunderbird C•mpus Glend•l•, Arl:ron• 15306 
space," he revealed. The trustees heard reports from 
In other action the trustees the Board committees on financial accepted the Report of the Commit-affairs, investments, the Campaing tee on Coeducation from Sr. John for Notre Dame, and academic and Mirian Jones, assistant provost. faculty affairs. The report was referred to the The Public Relations and Deve-Executuve Committee and will be Iopment Committee recommended considered in detail at the· spring that a briefing officer be appointed meeting of the trustees. to release highlights of Board 
Hesburgh summarized an ad-meetings to the media. The Board ministration proposal to "establish approved the recommendation and faculty compensation parity with appointed Murphy as the briefing peer institutions." The administra-officer. This is the first time in the tion is proposing faculty increases history of the Board that such an averaging eight percent for next officer has been appointed vear. Murohv noted. Murphy indicated. '
N • • -•
omI nations begin today ,.0 r Sen,·or Class Fellow
I 
1 . 
by Pat Dermody 
Nominations for Senior Class Fellow will be accepted today beginning at 11 a.m. Seniors can deposit the names of nominees in boxes located in both the North and South Dining Halls, the Huddle, and in the lounge of LaFortune Student Center. There will be an additional container located at the front door of the Senior Bar. 
According to the Senior Class Fellow Committee, persons nom­inated ~hould only be those who have contributed significantly to their field, and should embody the "spirit" of the Notre Dame Class of 1978. 
To submit a candidate for con­sideration a senior must print his or her name and ID number on a piece of paper, as well as the field and name of the person he is nominating. A nomination form will also be provided in this week's Observer. 
Seniors can nominate more than one candidate, but each must be submitted on a separate piece of paper or nomination form. 
After the nominations close on Friday, the Senior Class Fellow Committee will evaluate each no­minee and compose a list of those 
eligible for the final election.  This  
list  will  be  published  in  The  
Observer early next week.  

Bryant protested at ACC 
by Tim Lew Staff Reporter 

Anita Bryant, the controversial spokesperson for the Florida Citrus Growers, entertained a crowd of about 600 spectators in the ACC arena last Thursday night with her singing and her views on religion and American life. 
Bryant's appearance was pic­keted by about 300 members of the Michiana Coalition for Human Rights. On hand to express support for Bryant were about 30 members of a fundamentalist Bible 
roup. 
According to Notre Dame Sec­
rity, the coalition's protesters 
btained permission for the demon­
tration in advance and there were 
o problems during the march. For the audience that gathered to ear Bryant, she sang religious ongs, spoke about the moral decay f the country and quoted the ible. She stated that many of the ation's social problems were the 

esult of a failure to conform to 
'Bible morality." 
Before the concert, protestors 
arched while several preachers 
om the Bible group lectured on 
omosexuality, urging them to 

epent. Jim Howard, an organizer 
f the march said that the demon­

stration was not directed personally at Bryant, but at the ideas that she symbolizes. He said that the sin er's actions were threaten in American society i>y "preaching ~atred," and that the coalition had greeted her with "kindness and brotherly love." 

Bryant, who is most well-known for her television commercials sel­ling Florida orange juice, gained national attention last year for her outspoken efforts to repeal a Miami ordinance that banned discrimina­tion against homosexuals. Her views brought organized opposition from gay rights groups from around the country giving perfor­mances similar to last Thursday's in the ACC. 
The Florida Citrus Growers are 
JIM HOWARD reportedly considering replacin Bryant as their national spokes­erson due to a decline in sales. 
The Nuclear 500. 
Areyou good enough to beoneofthem? 
This year the Navy will seek about 500 of the 
country's top college graduates for its nuclear energy program. It's the most comprehensive training available in today's most exciting energy field. 
It's got to be. More than 70% of the country's nuclear reactors are operated by Navy men.. 
So our standards are extremely high. To qualify, you must have a solid background in engineering, math or physics. And have what it takes to become an officer in the U.S Navy. 
If you're selected, you'll be paid a starting salary comparable to most salaries given junior executives in private companies. And be placed in a position of responsibility quickly. 
If you're still in college, there are several special programs for you, including a full .. scholarship available for your junior and senior years. 
For more information about our programs, pay scales, or applications, see the Navy Officer Representative when he visits your Career Placement Office on 
or call: LT Steve Boaz ( 312) 657-2169 (collect). 
NAVY. IT'S NOT JUST A JOB, IT'S AN ADVENTURE. 
------~--~-------------------·---~ -------------.--------------~~----------------------------------. 


sweetest ~irl on campus. Called contest greatest th1ng since her beagle had pups. Bltie eyes, blonde and what a beauty! During ceremony ride around stadium, distracted dnver ran into goal post. Candi drinks Lite Beer from Miller because it's less filling. 
Can't afford to get filled up. You ~uessed it, she's also a cheerleader. . Spends spare time in Atlantic City practicing runway walk. 
Ute® Beer from MiUer. Everything you always wanted in a beer. Anclless. 

I. 

the ObServer Tuesday, November 1, 1977 
Horse and Homecoming dubbed successful 
by floreaceanae Strlgle horse idea was chosen instead. stated Sullivan: "We wanted creativity and construction. The Contest, co-sponsored by the radio After obtaining the approval of members of the football team to top three prizes of S2SO,S1SO,and station also attracted-much in­
The defeat of the Trojans on the Dean of Students James Roemer jump out of it the day of the game. $100 were won by Pangborn, terest. football field capped off a success­and Athletic Director Moose But Col. Stephens, Associate Ath­Lyons, and Keenan. -An estimated crowd of about 600 ful homecoming campaign spon­Krause, the committee submitted letic Director of the coaching staff The Helen of Troy contest, was attended the student-alumni sored by the Student Union the idea to the Student Union, informed us that it could be won by Gaelynn DeMartino, who Homecoming Dance in the con­according to Social Commissioner which agreed to finance the pro-dangerous," Sullivan explained. correctly identified the location of course of the ACC, which closed Orest Deychakiwsky. Included ject. Therefore, five interhall football Helen from the clues distributed the week's events. 
among . the festivities were the "We wanted to keep the horse a players adorned in blue and gold through the campus media by "It was a different kind of Homecoming Dance, happy hours, secret, •• said Sullivan, "so our next jerseys and the leprechaun emer­Student Union. DeMartino re­dance,'' explained Deychakiwsky, contests and the construction of the challenge was to find a place where ged from the horse in front of a ceived a homecoming package. "The band, Tony Barron's Orches­Trojan horse. we could build it incognito. • • capacity crowd and the television Second place winner Jim Rice was tra, and the featuring of a slide 
•'The Trojan horse was probably awarded a 520 gift certificate and show was very low key. The people 
Brother Pasqua) Cesce, rector of cameras. 
the most unique spectacle of the third place winner Jim Sabitus who went seemed to enjoy it,
Carroll Hall, offered his gym and "The horse was certainly a hit,"
weekend,'' remarked Hugh Sul­won a Miller beer lamp. though we were just a little
the students went to work. stated Deychakiwsky, "but not the 
livan, coordinator of the Trojan Steve Thomas, program director disappointed at the small number
Pat Moynihan and Jim Sterner, only success story of the weekend. 
Horse Committee. Originally, the of WSND, reported that the Trivia of alumni" he concluded. 
two fourth year architecture stu-The happy hours drew in a largerstudents who brought up the idea dents, designed the wooden beast tum-out than even hoped for --it wanted to attach a Trojan warrior to and a group of 20 to 30 helped build was the biggest crowd The Librarythe crane near the Engineering the horse out of 2 X 4's.After has had all year," he said. 
Building. This idea proved struc­panelling, the horse was placed on The hall decorations contest was 

turally impossible. so the Trojan 

a trailer. "a lot better than last year," "We made enough room for six according to Deychakiwsky. F"ll" 
Co u n se ling center lpel!o!!p!!le!!t!!o!!fi!!t!!!!in!!s!!id!!e!!t!!h!!e!!h!!o!!rs!!e!!,.!!.!!!!w!!er!!e!!j!!'u!!dg!!e!!d!!!!fo!!r!!d!!i!!sp,r:la::-y-.-:e,!fi!!!!W 

offers workshop
The Counseling Center, located in Room 400 in Administration 
Building, workshop on Job Inter­
view Skills intended to help stu­
dents become more confident and comfortable during a job interview. 
There are four sessions, during which participants will take part in a variety of group activities, including assertiveness training, discussing and exploring the kinds of questions people encounter in an interview, examining the parts of an interview, and effective pre­paration of a resume. Structured group experiences, including role playing, will be used. 
Interested students should call 1717. the Counseling Center. Enrollment is limited to 12, and the workshop will begin at 8 p.m. on Thursday, November 3: and will run for four weekly sesstons. 

I I I1 I 1 I I 1 I I  NOTICES School of Self sufficiency and turning. A small two weak llv~n course, covering the basic arts and cl'lfts of your ancestars combined with modern technology rela­tlva to food, shelter and energy. Setting Is on atranquil Mlmurt farm. Taught by a leading survival and self sufficiency expert with 35 ynrs experience through­out the world. Write Self sufficiency, Rt. 6, Box 85, Festus, MO. 63028. ------~----------­Accurate, fast typing. Mrs. Donoho. ~~~~!~u~~~~..:_~~~~--­NEED QUALITY TYPING? Executary, Inc. Professional Typing Service. IBM Correcting Selectrics. $.85 per page minimum. Call 232-()898 "When you ~~~~~~~----------­ ·  If you've ever-sold anything before, call now! We need qualified people to sell advertising in our offices year round. Good voice & diction required, topcommissions, relaxed atmosphere, 6 hours per day. Call Mr. Allis, 683-2403. -----------------­Addressers wanted Immediately! Work at home--no experience necessary--excel· lent pay. Write American Service. 8350 Park Lane, Suite 269, Dallas, TX 75231. -----------------­Needed: 2 GA tickets Georgia Tech. Call Betsy 4·4184. Your parents cannot make it to the Georgia Tech game? How about selling me their tickets. Call Geoff at 1083 anytime and keep on trying. Desperately need 2 Geo. Tech. GA tix. Call 288·8235. 2or 4 GA Georgia Tech. tix. Please! Call  classified ads Who would deny a former Southern Belle the chance to see her former beaus stomped on? I need 2-4 Georgia Tech tix y'all. Call Diane 7883. Need Ga. Tech. GA's. Please call Helen, 7260.• Need ride to and from PITISBURGH at THANKSGIVING. Call1581. Need GA tickets for Georgia Tech. Call Chris 8336. Need Georgia Tech tix -preferably student. Call 288-8417.  
1I 1 I I 1  PROFESSIONAL TYPING · Correcting Selectric typewriter, experienced in dis· ~~~0~~~~~~~~~!~~~--­Over 65 or Handicapped? We need to hear from you! Call234-8190 to complete a short, confidential survey on transpor· tatlon needs In St. Joseph County. (The task force on specialized transportation) -----------------­Will do typing. neat, accurate, Hours 9-6. Call 287-5162.-----------------­ Ann 6859. TYPIST WANTED: Full time, to typeset display advertising, Monday and Wed­nesday thru Saturday afternoons and-or evenings. Hourly pay. Experience help­ful, but not necessary. Apply In parson at: The Penny Saver, 2102 S. Michigan St., South Band, 283-1411. 2 female students to sublet campus view apt. call kathy. 6781.  Need 1 student or GA Georgia Tech ticket. Call Ken at 1m. I'm so good to you, Kenny. Need 4 GA tickets to Georgia Tech, Air Force games. Will pay top$$. Call Pat or Ed at 8377-8378. Naad 2GA Georgia Tach tix. Call Mark at 1409.  
II  Typing. Reasonable rates. Call 8051.-----------------­ Need ND·St. Mary's students nite work. Nicola's Rest. 809 N. Michigan Street.  FOR SALE  
1 I I I I I 1I  FOR RENT Apartment for rent Fabulous one of a king townhouse on river -In Elkhart. Sunken living room, fireplace, swimming pool, sunken red Japanese soaking tub, dishwasher, laundry equipment In each unit, winding staircase, some with sky· light. Leases conform to school year. Nothing like It anywhere! 294·2151.-----------------­Attic room for rent. $10 weekly. 310 W. Navarre St. S.B. 287-o853. -----------------­LOST & FOUND  Part-time or full-time. Hourly pay. Walt· resses, busboys, pizza-maker, dish· washer. Apply In person, Nicola's Restar­rant. Need 5GA tix for Ga. Tech. Contact Jim Gamble. I need one student ticket to Georgia Tech. Money Is no object. Call Ruxx at 8772. -----------------· Wanted: Babysitter tor 3-year old boy.Tuesday and Thursday from 12:45 p.m. till 4:15p.m. (if possible 9:30a.m. till 4 p m ) Near Campus 232 9541 ·• · · • · Need1~only 1, GA tickets forG-;07gi;  large, never used banner. Contact Spike. Name brand stereo & television at prices you can afford. Manufacturer's warranty. Call 291·5843 evenings. 1974 Fiat • Spider. Converted, 26000 miles, mint condition. !2850. Dear Dave, You did not include a phone number. Typist. ----------------­Pandora's Books is having a big, store· wide sale. All used books are 50 percentoff and selected new books (including Tha Slmarrlllon) are 25 percent oft It's time  
I I1  Lost: An ND monogram jacket In North Dining Hall. 1 really need It now that winter Is here. There IS a reward for its ~~~~~~~~~--------­ Tech. Help me keep a friend. Call steve 8998. ---------------­Need 2GA or student tickets for Georgia ~~~~~~~272-4478 after!~--­ for early Christmas shopping or books for classes. We have many, many ND books. Phone 233·2342, 937 South Bend Ave. --------------­~~~~~-~ ~~~e o~e~~~~sohuE~~en:;~f~~  
I I I  LOST: Student football tldlet. SICtlon 29,Row 35, Snt 11. Athletic Department has been notified. Plnse return. Call Maur­een 6856. -------------­WANTED  GA'sand student tickets to Georala Tech. Mlck 2743 or Ern 1750. HELP! !T ----------­Need 2 to 4 GA and 1 student ticket for Georgia Tech. Call 288-<Xl88. ---------------­ coustic guitar, $40. Gibson BSS100 amp.100 w. $100, Ampeg 2·15" bottom, $100. Armostrong flute, $40. All In good cond. Call Mike. 289-6468. PERSONALS  
I  PLEASE HELP! Need 3 GA or student  Need 3 student or GA tickets. $$$. Call ~~:.._____________  Mary Pat Hoffman,  
I\  tickets for Georgia Tech. Call Rosie ~~~ 2 p.m:.._______  NEEDED: Two Ga Georgia Tech. ticket$. Call Dawn 7892.  Welcome to ND.  G  

1
~~---------­

PREPARE FOR:
MCIT •DIT •LilT •&MIT 

• 

• OCI" •IIY•SlY
II II II
1MB I, II, III•ECfMI•fLEI•IQE 
NAT'L DENTAL BOARDS • NURSING BOARDS Flexible Pf09f81M a Hours 
'l"hne IS • dlffnnacettl 
For Information Please Call: l ~~ 
~o:;t.afayette ~~~~ 
463-7026 TEST Pfii"AfiATION SPECIALISTS SINCE le38 
Serving BJOQJ!lingto.o. Indianapolis, South 
Bend I For Locations in other cltie1 
Outside N.Y. State Only CALL TOLL FREE: 800..223·1112 
Centen In MaJor US Cltlea Toronto, Puerto Rico 1nd Lu11no, Swltzerllnd 
----cLASSES NOW FORMING for LSAT and GRE. 

EXTRA MONEY! 
soothe the post -break blues... ~ 
WEDNESDAY NIGHT~ 
~ 

here comes the sun! ~ 
tequila sll:nrises lsocl ~ 
Georgia T gtmlets ~
D ~
Sinatra schnappshots 
DSI~I()I? ()AI?
the only place to go. 

________________, 
Wedding Bells are ringing in the editor's Congrats to Marti but where's the proof' \ 
~~~~~:::~:~::~~~:: Whe~~~~~~----------1 
Kliglib, Welcome back Willy' Hope you nad a I Alcatrax is up for grabs-wanna buy it tor good break. By the way, notice you are our own? Wish you'd been there! 1 left not included in the group Personal. G I my heart on the opposite coast. Love, 
---------------~~~ p;;~;Mct>~i;i:" __________ I 
Happy Hour at Pinocchio's Pizza Parlor. Keep on truckin. you'll make it. X I 4·7 p.m. Mon·Thurs. 2 pitchers for priceof one! Georgetown Plaza. Emmons Rd. ----------------­
I 

(4 mins. from Juniper Circle) To Everybody, (You know who you are). ~!t;;~;-~h~~~emo~~h;;ga-;e-; Welcome back!! G I ride home to two girls with red legs & PARDON-US~TISNOTTRUETHAT 
I 

English accents. Thanks' Stop by for tea PATTY DWYER IS GOING TO POSE 
~~~~-!~!.:_~~~!':.~~-----FOR PLAYBOY. WHAT IS TRUE IS I Mary Pat, THAT HER ROOMMATE WAS TURN-I Thanks for coming!!!! ED DOWN LAST WEEK BY HUGH Jerry Love, HEF~~:.._____________ I 
Moe Reynolds. 
I 

Do it!! & Olivea. P.S. Coss says "You're right, this is college!" (eeek!) -----------------~ I 
Fig, Thanks for the SMALL gift. Christy Happy Birthday KY-tee. You're so good! 
I 
We love you. Jean &Byrne

Many thanks to all tose who backed me tor the SMC Freshman Council. Especial­-----------------­ly everyone on 5th Regina North. Here's 
Ralph does funny things to homozygous I to a great year! Love, 
recessive Drosophila. 
I 

Marte Megargle -------------­
H;;---------------~~yB-~~~~~--------~ I 
How was Atlanta??? G Pumpkin peepers contest! 9 tonight 222 
I 
· Braen-Phllllps. Everyone welcome. Bring 

~;~~c~Ne~~ie~-----~-;;~.~~~~~~---------I 
It was asuper weekend in New England. 
1

Thanks! Let me know when Chicago Is on. 
----------------~~ ~1v-c-ro;SMC---------~ I 
~~sJ~~know what an honor it is to get Info wanted concernIng recent Cava-1 2 Personals in Tha Observer?? naugh crimes. Contact the CCC. 
-----------------~ F;ank, li;k;;;;,;-;;;-~:-~;-;ou I Observer Staff, 
didn't check the mileage. G 1 Thank you for tha candy and flowers. It's nlca to know I am appreciated. 
------------------I 
For hire, the CCC specializing In the extermination of kidnappers, ticket

Batty 
1 
thieves and lousy dancers.

Cindy, . Maximize the most economical way to 
------------------I 
Ding Ding Ding,

escape to the Islands, while you optimize the maximum on your 20th With Tia 1
Christmas bells & wedding bells. The proof comes at Xmas.
Maria! Happy Birthday! Love, 
------------------I 
THE ILLUSIVE PADDLEFISH IS COM­ING [OR IS IT ELUSIVE]

--------~~~~~~~~~ I 
Sam, IToday is the first of November, so
I thought I'd have a little more abuse 
everyone be sure and remember, when

thrown your way by printing y~ur name in 
you see Kim Uniacke to say Happythe paper. 9th floor Grace ta e note. G 

twentieth birthday!! 
I 

-----------------------------------I 
Call 6966 &wish Kitty a happy 21! 1would have asked you to our formal at 
To Leonardo from Henceforth: 
I

dinner, but what about the guy I asked before you? AT 
1 I 
----------"------~~ 1 
'------------------------------------------~' 
Tuesday, Novem=be::.:r_'1'"'"'-'1.;;...97~7_____.t....h..,.eL...:IIo...b...,s""'eliE.L.rvJ!.:e!IU.-r__.--!.,7 
Irish trounce Trojans, 49-19 

[Continued from page 8.] 

from the one to give Notre Dame another six points. Reeve's conver­sion enhanced the Irish lead to 42-13. 
Following the sixth Notre Dame touchdown, the Trojans then began their only major offensive scoring .drive. The march began at their own 25 and covered the remaining 75 yards in six plays and took two minutes and ten seconds. The major play in the tally was a 25 yard aerial completion to Sweeney. The two-point attempt failed as the Irish still led, 42-19. 
Notre Dame achieved their final score with only seconds remaining in the game. The touchdown came on a four yard toss from quarter­back Rusty Lisch to Kevin Hart. The extra point expanded the score to 49-19, the final outcome. 
In the battle, the Irish registered fourteen first downs, while the Trojans managed 19. The Irish had 386 yards in total offense while USC compiled 347. 
Heavens led the Irish rushing attack with 83 yards in 32 carries. Montana, Chevrolet's offensive player of thP-game, connected on 13 of 24 aerial attempts for 167 yards and two touchdowns. Mac­Afee hauled in eight passes for 97 yards. 
247 Dixieway North For the Trojans, White racked up 
ph. 277-3355 135 yards on only 25 attempts. 
****************** 
"HEARTS AND MINDS'' 
Feature Length 
Academy Award Winning 
Documentary About Vietnam 
First Time in Michiana 

Library Auditorium Tonight 
75c admission 7:30 
******************* 

also appearing 
NETWORK SATURDAyI NOVEMBER 19I 8:00 p.M. NOTRE DAME A.C.C. 

All Seats Reserved: $7.00 and $6.00 Tickets on sale at: 
• Notre Oorr.e A(.(. Box OffiCe  • It  Joseph Bonk & Bromhe>  • first Bonk-Mom off1ce only  
Sot. 9 to S  • R1ver City Records.  • Suspended Cord in flkhort  
• Student Union Ticket OH1ce  • Boogie Records  • Elkliart Truth  
• Robertsons-I.B. & Concord Moll  • Just for the Record  • Record Joint  -Niles  

Mosi Tatupu was neld to only 20 ."We got the hell beat out of us," yards in six tries. Trojan Head Coach John Robinson 
Defensively, Heimkreiter led the stated. "We were beaten today by Irish with 15 tackles. Bob Golic, a very inspired and well-coached Chevrolet's defensive player in the 
team. Notre DaJile executed very contest, followed in that category well. We were oUt-played and out­with 11, while Ross Browner, Mike 
coached.'' Calhoun and Doug Becker each In the Notre Dame locker room, notched nine. Irish mentor Dan Devine was being Irish Items: Bradley tied the career questioned about the use of the 
interception mark of 15 held by green jersies and the overall effect Tom MacDonald with his one this strategy had on the team. snatch against the Trojans. Notre Dame's touchdown in the first quarter represented the first points scored by the Irish in the opening period this season. That tally also represented the first time the Trojans had been scored upon in the first half. 
Cain's three-yard touchdown run in the third quarter was the first rushing score against the Irish this year. In addition, it was the first touchdown yielded by the defense since the second quarter of the Purdue contest. _ 
After the first period, the Trojans never really posed any major threat and were unable to move the ball. 
%Observer 
Sports 

have helped the situation, and added enthusiasm, there was much more involved. 
"Let's get under those ;jersies, Devine stressed. "There's an awful lot of heart under those jersies and these kids have performed all year to the best of their abilities," Devine remarked. 
With the ability displayed in the Southern Cal contest, the future for the Irish may be bright as well as 
Ted Burgmeier rambles for 51 yards after intercepting_ a Navy pass. 
ND torpedoes MidShipmen 
[Continued from page 8.] game. This was not only Stone"s 
first  career  score  but  it  also  
represented the long est  run  from  
scrimmage  for  the  Irish  this  
season.  

Navv added a touchdown of little signifi~ance late in the final period when second team quarterback Bob Powers found teammate Phil McConkey open in the endzone. The seven yard completion condu­ded a 31 yard drive aided by an off-side penalty · against Notre Dame which nullified an intercep­tion by freshman free-safety Tom Gibbons. 
Irish linebacker Bobby Leopold raced SO yards with an errant Power's pass for the game's final score with only 33 seconds remain­ing on the clock. Second team placekicker Joe Unis added the extra point, the first of his career. to give Notre Dame a well deserved 43-10 victory. "We beat a very tough Navy team today, ·• Devine stated. "Don't let anybody tell you that Navy does not have good personnel.'' 
Notre Dame gained 468 yards in total offense compared to only 193 by the Midshipmen. Again Heav­ens led the Irish ground attack gaining exactly 100 yards in just 17 carries. MacAfee led all receivers with five receptions for 130 total yards giving him a season total of 
38. four receptions more than all of last year. 
In a complete turnaround from last year's game, the defense totally dominated Navy only allow­ing Leszczyniski to complete seven passes in 22 attempts accounting for just 55 yards. This statistic is of special importance since this same quarterback established various passing records against Notre Dame in last year's 27-21 squeaker. 
Bob Golic continued his quest for All-American status racking up 17 tackles to lead the Irish in that category. Other players worthy of special mention include Doug Becker and Mike Calhoun who accumulated 13 and 12 tackles respectively. Calhoun also added three fine defensive playes which resulted in losses of 13 yards. Ross Browner continued his steady play contributing nine tackles allowing him to pass former Irish great Steve Niehaus' record 290 tackles 
Saturday's victory extended Notre Dame's winmng streak to five• games :-:taking them six and one overall. This Saturday the Irish must face Georgia Tech, a team 
ing Notre Dame from receiving a sized. "After last year's game a major bowl bid. To add injury to newspaper article quoted some of 'insult they did so without throwing the Tech players as stating that our a single pass. "We won't let down defensive line was out of shape, for next week, because we have a well this year they are going to be 
score to settle," Montana empha-in for a big surprise.'· 
:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:::::::::::::::;:::::::::::::::::::;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 
The Irish Eye 

The Irish proved that they were of championship caliber when they 
totally out-played Southern Cal. Many were concerned t' <t Notre Dame 
would let down the following week and be challenged b:, l respectable :· 
Navy team. 
However, the Irish handed the Midshipmen their worst defeat of the 
1977 season. 43-10. The offense that seemed to be lacking at the 
beginning of the season has emerged as a very powerful unit 
Now, the Irish's destiny is held in their own performance. Sure, how the 
top four teams perform the remainder of the season will have an effect on 
the standings, but, the Irish have to continue to win if they truly desire the 
top spot. 
Last season, before November 6, the Irish were in a similar situation. 
Notre Dame had lost their opening contest to Pittsburgh, but since that 
battle, had proceeded to capture their next six games. Then, the Irish 
traveled to Atlanta to take on Georgia Tech. The Yellowjackets stung the 
Irish, upsetting Notre Dame 23-14 without even throwing a pass. That's 
quite an accomplishment against a team which prides itself on its rushing 
defense. 
This Saturday, the Yellowjackets come to South Bend with a S-3 ledger 
and an intent to surprise the Irish once again. Notre Dame must be ready 
for teams of this caliber. They may not be a super team. but the talent is 
there. If Georgia Tech, or any other team the Irish may face in the · 
remainder of the season, is inspired enough and if they -catch the Irish 
relaxing, then an upset will be in the making. 
The Irish have proven themselves two weeks in a row. However, they 
must continue to prove themselves. including this Saturday against Tech. 
The Irish have revenge on their side for what the Yellowjackets did last 
season. 
Even after this Saturday, the Irish will travel to Greenville, South 
Carolina to tackle Clemson. The Tigers have won seven straight contests 
after dropping their opening game to Maryland, 21-14. Clemson is ranked 
thirteenth in the AP poll and will certainly be awaiting their contest with 
the Irish. 
Notre Dame has not proven themselves well in the South as witnes.sed 
most recently by their loss to Mississippi in the second game of the 
season. This game too, will be very important for the Irish if their quest is 
a seat at the top. 
But. Notre Dame must take each game individually and play each one 
like they have proven they can in their last two clashes. Every team likes 
to beat Notre Dame and if the Irish are ranked highly in the polls, a win 
like that is even more cherished. 
The Irish received a great deal of preseason publicity and after the 
second game, many believed that was undeserved. Well, the Irish have 
proven they deserve their ranking for the time being. 
However, Notre Dame does not retain its ranking on past performances. 
Every week there has to be continued improvement and proof that they 
are among the best. 
The Irish have climbed from the cellar to among the nation's elite. Only ; a few games separate the Notre Dame football team from their preseason : goal. Everything is not perfectly set. Other teams may have to lose and the 
Irish must continue to win. But, there is still a great chance for the 
National Title to be given to the Golden Dome, with all the major bowl 
committees focusing on Notre Dame. 
Notre Dame definitely is back. in the national picture. But now, the coaches, squad and Irish supporters must prove that they truly deserve . the number-one spot. Performing as they did th~ past ~o games and 
that upset them last year prevent-~ :taking each ~arne individually can lead tf:l:e Irish to' their· destifiy:•­
~--------------------------~------~-------------------------~----------~--~~·~-· 
Tuesday, November 1, 1971 
8 
lb• obaaner 

Aye, 'twas the··wearin' of the green 
lri~'!.!'hi~=.!.!~!.ans 
Sports Editor Six plays later, Montana plunged 
into the endzone from one yard out. 
For the first time since 1958, On the conversion attempt, the 
the Fighting Irish gridders wore snap was low and bobbled by 
green jersies, and for only the Burgmeier. However, the senior 
second time since 1966, the Notre from East Dubuque, ILL connect­
Dame football team defeated ed with Tom Domin in the endzone 
Southern Cal. for the two point conversion. With 
The Irish, varying their offensive 2:37 remaining in the half, the Irish appeared as if they would settle for 
play selection and performing un­led 15-7. three points. 
believably well on defense, crushed Three plays after Reeve kicked However, with only 28 seconds 
the fourth-ranked Trojans, 49-19. off, the Irish took control of the ball left before intermission, Reeve 
The Southern Cal gridders have again. Trojan quarterback Rob followed his usual kicking proce­
been averaging 31.8 points per Hertel lofted a pass for Randy dure, but Burgmeier kept the baH 
contest, while allowing only 10.5. Simmrin, but the aerial attempt and scampered around the right 
The Trojans received the open­wl:s deflected by Ross Browner and side for a 21 yard gain to the Trojan 
ing kickoff and proceeded to march intercepted by Luther Bradley who 13. On the following play, Montana 
from their own 23 yard line to the returned the ball to the Trojan 37. hit MacAfee in the endzone for the 
Notre Dame 35. Faced with a Montana then threw long to score. Reeve's point after gave the 
fourth down and four at the 35, Jerome Heavens, but the ball just Irish a commanding 22-7 lead. 
Trojan place kicker Frank Jordan escaped the halfback's grasp at the In the first half. the Irish had 14 
came on to attempt a 52 yard field five. After two consecutive runs up first downs compared to 11 for 
goal. However, the three-point the middle, many Irish supporters. USC. The Notre Dame gridders had 
attempt fell short of its destination. were disappointed that Notre Dame 228 yards total offense, while the 
The Irish then took command of Trojans compiled 193. 
the football and drove paydirt. The Irish received the kickoff after 
Highlights of the scoring march intermission, but were unable to 
were quarterback Joe Montana's advance the ball. The Trojans then 
aerial strike to tight end Ken took control at their own 38. 
MacAfee and a 16 yard pass to However, Southern Cal was also 
fullback Dave Mitchell. The unable to march down field. Faced 
touchdown came on a four yard with fourth down and 23 at the USC 
burst by Mitchell. Reeve's conver­45, Marty King lined up in punt 
sion brought the score to 7-0. formation for the Trojans. But the 
The Trojans drove the ball from attempt was blocked by Bob Golic 
their own 21 to the Irish nine. With and Jay Case picked up the ball and 
fourth and eight at the nine, Jordan raced 30 yards for another Notre 
attempted a 26 yard field goal, but Dame score. Reeve's extra point 
this try also failed as it was wideto gave the Irish a 29-7 lead with only 
the right. 4:15 elapsed in the second half. 
After an exchange of several On their next possession, the Irish 
punts and a missed 49 yard field tallied again. This scoring drive 
goal by Reeve, the Trojans had the covered 70 yards in nine plays and 
football. Unable to advance the ball used 3:08 on the clock. Big plays in 
further than the Notre Dame 49, the scoring march were passes of 
the Trojans punted. The punt, plus 27 and 25 yards to Kris Haines and. 
a personal foul against the Notre MacAfee, respectively. The touch­
Dame pushed the ball back to the down came on a fourth down and 
Irish three. one at the one. Montana hit 
On Notre Dame's first play, MacAfee for the six points to give 
Tri-captain Tery Eurick carried up the Irish a 35-7 lead. 
the middle. The senior fullback The next Trojan score came after 
was jolted by nose guard Ty Mitchell fumbled and Walt Under­
Sperling and the ball popped in the wood recovered for Southern Cal at 
air, right into the hands of Mario the Irish 21. On the first play of 
Celotto. The senior linebacker took their possession, Hertel threw to 
three steps into the end zone to put wide receiver Calvin Sweeney, a 
the Trojans on the board. Jordan's pass which was ruled complete 
point from placement knotted the because of an interference call 
score at seven against Notre Dame. 
Later in the second period, the The Trojans then had a first down Irish started a drive at their own 16 at the Irish three. Two plays later, and !'aced to the Southern cal five. Lynn Cain slanted over left tackle However, with a first and goal at for the tally. Hertel attempted a the Trojan five, Mitchell fumbled two-point conversion, but the se­and Southern Cal recovered at nior quarterback failed as he was their own nine yard line. smothered by Irish linebacker 
But, on the Trojan's first play, Steve Heimkreiter. running back, Charles White carri­On their next opportunity, the ed for five yards but fumbled upon Trojans were stopped by the Irish coutact with the Irish defense and defense once more. Faced with a Leroy Leopold recovered for Notre fourth and five at their own 13, the 
Trojans went for the first down.Paul Stevenson r-towever, Hertel's pass was out of 
bounds and the Irish regained pos­
session.
The Irish Eye 

Six plays later, Montana dove over~ (Continued on page 7.] 
::::::::::::::::~::::::::::: 

The Road Ahead 
After the Irish battled the University of Mississippi in Jackson, many believed that Notre Dame's chances of bringing the MacArthur Bowl back 
AP Top Tw~nty
to du Lac was minimal if not impossible. In the September 19 issue of The 
Observer, one sports column read, "Now, panic has stricken the campus 
The Top Twenty teams in The once again. Notre Dame was upset by Mississippi, 20-13, before a ~Associated Press college foot­capacity crowd in Jackson. Because of this defeat, Notre Dame's record 
ball poll, with first place votes drops to 1-1 and visions of being number-one are fading fast." 
in parentheses, season records "Notre Dame had their chance at the top. Now, the Irish have to go out 
and total points. points based and prove that they deserve to have their ranking back. This quest is not 
on 20-18-16-14-12-10-9-8-7 etc. going to be easy, however, it is possible." 
I. Texas (57) 7-0 1176 Well, the Notre Dame football team put themselves right back into the 2. Alabama (1) 7-1 953National Championship picture on October 22 by trouncing Southern Cal, 3. Oklahoma 7-1 882.
49-19. This feat rocketed the Irish to a fifth place ranking in both wire 4. Ohio State 7~1 868service polls. 
~. Notre Dame 6-1 652 
Texas, Alabama, Oklahoma and Ohio State all precede the Irish in the 6. Michigan 7-1 592 uPI and AP standings. However, Texas must still play Houston and Texas 7. Kentucky (1) 7-1 569 A&M. Alabama must battle Louisiana State in Baton Rouge, while the 8. Arkansas 6-1 465Sooners must tackle Colorado and Nebraska in the remaining weeks. 
9. Penn State 7-1 448 
Finally, the Buckeyes are waiting for their grudge match with Michigan in 10. Texas A&M 6-1 309Ann Arbor on November 19. 
11. Nebraska 6-2 255If any of these top four teams lose and the Irish keep winning, then 12. Pitt 6-1 253Notre Dame should advance in the standings. Even if these teams do not 13. Clemson 7-1 160lose, the Irish could end up playing any of them except Ohio State in a 14. Brigham Young 6-1 127 bowl game if Notre Dame maintains their record. 
15. · Florida State 6-1 76 
After the clash with the Rebels, The Observer also had printed, "We 16. Southern Cal 5-3 36 
have to realize our mistakes and correct them. Once they have been 17. California 6-2 32 
corrected, go out and prove that the preseason publicity the Irish received 18. Louisiana State 5-2 24 was legitimate. Whether the season is an uphill battle or a downhill slide 1 19., Arizona State · 6-1 18 will be revealed in the remaining weeks." 
,._tie Iowa State 6-2 18[Continued on page 7.] \ 





