
--------~------------------~-----~----------­
Various festivities highlight AnTostal weekend 
byMarkPeny Staff Reporter 
In spite of uncooperative weather conditions, students from Notre Dame and St. Mary's gathered for the Tenth Annual An Tostal week­end, which concluded yesterday with the completion of the Book­store Basketball Tournament. 
The Trivia Bowl opened-Thurs­day's activities, as Mike Henry of Pangborn defeated seven other finalists to win the championship. 
A large crowd gathered at Ste­pan Center for the Mr. Campus contest, as representatives from the men's dorms competed in three 
,_ 
divisions: evening attire, swimsuit
....... 
and talent. Mike Natale, a sopho­
"-~ ft~~1;: 
more from Fisher, won the coveted title, entertaining the. crowd with impersonations in the talent por­tion of the competition. Jules Thompson, Mr. Alumni and Mr. Campus of 1975, was runner-up. _ The evening was marred by a late start because of lighting prob­lems, a tripped fire alarm in the middle of the show, and another delay caused by an intoxicated
Although this entry didn't intend to run An Tostal's chariot race in an overturned chariot, it didn't student who said he was represent­stop him from finishing the race. This was just one of the unique entries in Saturday's event. 
ing Off-Campus and had to be[Photo by Leo Hansen] removed from the stage prior to the announcement of the winner. 
J.P. Madigan and Lou Bridges 
· were the big winners on Friday afternoon; as they led Dillon's domination of the field events, held in the pouring rain on the South Quad. Madigan and Bridges won the Jello Toss and the Blindfolded Football Kick. 
The 
Other winners for Dillon were Kevin Dages and Tom "Dork" Van Eck, who won the Egg Toss; Bruce Flowers, who won the keg toss and a team composed of men _from Dillon and ladies from other halls who won the Car Stuffing Contest, 
tying Flanner's record of 32 people in one minute. Mary Ellen Pearce an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's 

0 
server 
of Lewis won the ladies division of the Keg Toss. Vol. XI, No. 118 
Recess 103 was held in StepanMonday, April 25, 1977 
Center Friday night as students gathered -for tricycle races, jacks, four-square, cartoons and other fun 
COUP recommendation focuses and games as they relived their childhood days. One student was injured aton ND 'Catholic character' 
recess when some of his friends 

by Marti Hogan Editor-in-Chief · 

Editor's note: This is the third part in a series of articles explaining the recommendations of the COUP report and their relation to the Campaign for Notre Dame. 
A major focus of the Committee on University Priorities was on the Catholic character of Notre Dame. In response , the Campaign for Notre Dame seeks $5 million for the endowment of activities enhancing religious values on campus as well as for campus-based religious pro­grams. 
This $5 million endowment will cover four aspects of Notre Dame as a Catholic institution: campus religious life, endowed rectorships, church and chapel maintenance and progams in service of the Catholic church. 
According to Fr. William Toohey director of campus ministry, "We experience the presence of God in nature, in historical events in the scriptures, in the teaching Church in the sacrements. But most predominantly ... we encounter God through other men and women." 
On this basis, campus ministry has cited five programs for foster­ing campus religious life. 
Campus ministry would like to expand its retreats program and money is necessary to underwrite retreats to keep the fees down for students to parrticipate. The retreat program could be subsi­dized by $150,000. 
Funds are also needed to support the publication and distribution on campus of religious material. Campus ministry recently revived the Notre Dame Prayer Book for ;Students but does not have the money to make it available to all students. A fund to meet religious publications needs could be en­dowed at $100,000. 
Campus ministry also would like 
tried to drag hi1.1 through some
to become more involved in the Heart Church and the various hall 
baby powder and dropped him on
residence halls but Jack the re­chapels is ·also a concern. This 
the floor, causing a small cut over
sources to serve their "pastoral maintenance has become in­
his left eye, which required six
needs". A "multimedia library" creasingly expensive, and there is 
stiches.
containing material which hall 
[continued on page 3] Saturday continued its muddy
staffs could utilize to enliven 

liturgical and religious programs is 
a possibility. A projected $150,000 
could underwrite these pastoral 
programs. 
Another program that campus 
ministry believes would enhance 
campus religious life is a religious 
lecture series. In cooperation with 
other departments of the Univer­
sity. campus ministry wants to 
feature "first-rate religious think­
ers" who would contribute to the 
discussion of important spiritual 
and theological issues on campus. 
The series could be fostered by an 
endowment of $100,000. 
Support is also being sought for 
apostolic projects which students 
participate in, such as helping the 
elderly, the retarded and under­
privileged children. 
Endowed Rectombips 

The COUP report stressed the impact that rectors have on the religious values of the students in their halls. "Nothing else we do can have as much influence on han· residents as naming a group ·of competent adults who dedicate 
themselves to living with students 
to help them become mature 
Christians," the report noted. 
In order to make the positions of leadership withing the halls more appealing to qualified candidates, the University plans to endow the rectorships of the four oldest residence halls: St. Edward's, Badin, Sorin and Walsh. The Campaign for Notre Dame is seeking a total endowment of $1 million to endow the four rector­ships. Each rectorship will be allocated ~250,000. 
The maintenance of Sacred An Tostal's frisbee toss called for exact aim and a steady hand. [Photo by Leo Hansen] tradition as many students came back to their dorms quite dirty after a long afternoon. 
The day opened with the "Super­stars" competition, as 44 men and 6 ladies tried their hand at golf, swimming, pool, free-throw shoot­ing, pinball, beer-guzzling and other events. George Behrens of Dillon won the men's division and Ann Joyce of Lewis won the title for the ladies. 
The Road Rally was also run early Saturday morning, as Paul Knausser from Off-Campus cross­ed the finish line in the least amount of time to win the cham­pionship. 
A team from Stanford won the Ben Hur Chariot Race, defeating the team from Keenan in the finals. 
Steve Soanick played Ben Hur for Stanford, pulled by "horses" Ran­dy Haefner, Terry Leary, Pat McKillen, and John "Thunder" Thornton. 
Flanner won the fish relay race, as Jay Willie Foster, Pete Tremb­lay, Pat Taylor, and Scott Rodgers passed the fish from mouth · to mouth to finish first. 
In the Mud Volleyball finals, Rene Rosenbaum's team defeated Gary Metzler's team, 15-8, 15-13. 

The winner of the Ugly Man on Campus (UMOC) was announced at the Irish Wake, held at Stepan Center Saturday night. Holy Cross' "Beppo" Guido won the title for the second straight year, as he gathered over $1400 worth of votes. Orest Deychakiwsky of Cavanaugh was second, as he received almost $1100 worth of votes. Rounding out the top five were Murray of Murray's Massage Parlor, Rusty Lisch, and "Otto" Principato. 
Sunday concluded the weekend's activities, as the Bookstore finals were held under sunny skies and cold temperatures. A large crowd saw the TILCS, led by Dave Batton, win the title for the second straight year, defeating Billy Paterno's Average White Team, 23-21. 
Sandwiched around the finals were the Jocks vs. Girls basketball game, won by the girls in double­overtime, 53-53, and the Slam­Dunk Contest, won by Chris "Hawk" Stevens, a former Notre Dame player and a frequent guest at basketball pep rallies. Stevens defeated Don "Duck" Williams in the finals to win the contest which was held for the first time this year. 

Monday, April 25, 1977
the observer 


-----News Briefs--­
t:=:======================== International 
Leading politicians jailed 
ISLAMBAD, Pakistan --The government jailed 48 leading opposition politicians yesterday in a counteroffensive against a six-week-old campaign of street protests against Prime Minister Zulfidar Ali Bhutto. 

Housewife elected 
DETROIT--Eleanor Curti Smeal; a housewifewho has never held ·a paying job, was elected president of the National Organization for Women (NOW) yesterday In her acceptance speech, Smeal stressed the need for passage of the stalled Equal Rights 
Amendmentand called for financial security for homemakers. 

-On Campus Today_. 
4 pm lecture, "the truth of reason and the truth of vision" (iirst part) by prof. eric voegelin, former visiting prof. of government and international relations, nd, spon­sored by dept. of government and international studies, library auditorium. 
4:15 pm lecture-recital, "the organ magnifica!: stylistic evolu­tion and liturgical implications" by craig westendorf, nd, assisted by anne peebles, sponsored by dept. of music, room 204, crowley hall. 
4:30pm seminar, "how to find a summer job," sponsored by the smc career development center, regina auditorium,' smc. 
7 pm lecture, "tolkien today" by clyde kilby, prof. emeritus, wheaton college, symposium on fantasy and religion,·' sponsored by student union academic commission, 
library auditorium. 

7-10 pm art opening, don and jim vogl, two-man show, father and son, isis gallery. 
7:30pm lecture, by virginia dell mccarty, indianapolis attorney, carroll hall, smc. 
8pm lecture, "human rights and international law under the west german constitution" by dr. ernst benda, president, constitutional (court, federal republic of germany, spo11sored by center for civil rights, cce auditorium. 
8 pm lecture, ''the fuRction of religiOus art in western europe and byzantium in the middle ages',' by peter brown, prof. of history, royal holloway college, university of london, sponsored by dept. of theology, biology auditorium. 
8:15pm concert, case 11)en's glee club, ·Sponsored by dept. of music, free, washington hall. 
Benda to speak at CCE 
Dr. Ernest Benda, president of  stag since )957.  He  joined  the  
the Federal Constitutional Court of  federal  government  in  1966  as  
West  Germany.  will  discuss  undersecretary in the Interior Min­ 
"Human Rights and International  istry and from 1968 .to 1969 he was  
Law·  Under  the  West  German  
Constitution~·  at the University of  
Notre  Dame's  Center  for  Con­ 
tinuing  Education tonight  at 1  
8 p.m.  
Benda is president of the court  
which declared unconstitutional  a  
West  German  law  allowing  
abortion on request during the first  
12 weeks of pregnancy.  ·  




Student govt .. initiates proposals to aid student-alumni relations 
By Jake Morrissey various student government activi-: seniors and alumni. The seniors 
Staff Reporter ties~and problems that the Notre who want to attend would be 
Dame students are facing. This provided with a list of the alumni's 
The Notre Dame Student Gov­will begin next September." regions and jobs. Unfortunately, ernment has initiated sevet "' pro­''The second idea.'' Dondanville we will have to begin this activityposals in hopes of bettering related," is to let the students next year.'' student-alumni communications. know what the alumni are doing. Dondanville is looking forward to according to Patty Dondanville, We would like to see things like ·seeing these ideas put into action student government alumni repre­Feature articles is The Observer on and hopes. she said. that the Notre sentative. the lives of various Alumni Board Dame students of what the Alumni 
The proposals, Dondanville said. members. The Alumni Board is Board is will change. "The "Came about as a\•·esponse to the here four times a year and are in students will know who these growing needs of the students to 
touch with Notre Dame. They people are and that they are and trying to utilize the alumni in reallv do care." 
interested in the current Notre the -most advantageous wa:v pos--· The final two-proposah are Dame ·s-tudent body." ·she con-­sible." 
senior-oriented. Dondanville said. cluded. 
"It all began." Dondanville con­"These . include coordinating tinued. "when the Alumni Board 
placement bureaus in various met. I presented a letter to them alumni regions atToss the country outlining the four proposals that we for summc~r employment. We hope can take effect next year." would ab,l like an informal get­"Our first (proposal) is a month­together. a picnic before and after Jynewsletterto the alumni detailing thl' Blue and Gold football game for 
Pollution control workshop resumes at CCE today 
A workshop on new concepts, 'Loftler of the University of Karl­methods and advanced technology sruhe. W. Germany, on Thursday. in air pollution control resumes Apr. 2 at 8 a.m. and "High 
today at the Center for Continuing 
Temperature Filtration--Technical Education through Friday. 
Prospects and as Means for Che~k The workshop was organized by on Theories" by Michael Benane Notre Dame to stimulate further 
of the French National Institute for research in particulate-gas separ­
Aoolied Chemistry on Friday. Apr. ation technology. It is supported 22 at 8:30 a.m. by the National Science Fqundation and the Environmental Protection Agency. Dr. Teoman Ariman, Notre Dame associate professor of aerospace and mechanical engi­neering. is chairman and workshop director. Some SO scientists and engineers from universities, industry, gov­ernment and other research organi­zations will participate in the meeting. The goal is interaction among three groups of researchers­theoretical analysts, experimen­talists, and design and application specialists. Two major lectures will be offered: "The Influence of Electro­static Forces for Particle Collection in Fibrous Filters" by Friedrich 
ThE' Obserwr is publi.sht>d Monday· through Fnday and wPekly .during the summer sessu:in, except during thP exam and vacation pPrtods The ObsPrvP'r IS published by students of the Uniwrsitv of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College Subscriptions may bP purchased for $20 per yPilr ($10 per serpester} from T,he Obser­ver, B0x Q. Notre Dame. lnd1aria 465S6 Second class postagt> paid, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 
The Observer is a membt>-r of the Associated Press All rPproduction rights arP re~ervt>d 
Soecial Mon.& Tues. Taco Dinner $1.60 
.4!0)~

!If7 e_-'=') ' -~ r~...rro Lufs~~\ 

\·\ REST~AN~~j,Z
I'·~ -,'!JJ 
\;/-~"-.; §£

\..~)"-t __ _, ~ ~~ 
11 a.m. to 11 p.m. 233-0385 526 Western Ave .. South Bend 

restc~urant and Lounge BAR·B·QU£ &BEE~ FEATURING THE FINEST IN HICKORY SMOKED BARBECUE COOKED OVER AN OPEN PIT WITH SPECIAL SAUCE " PITCHEROFBEERWIT..H EVERYDINNERFREE ' • (TUESDAYS ONLY) ' .  
HAPPY HOUR DAILY! I3-7 pm Pitchers $1.00 & $1.25 2sc Beers  
1132 SOUTH BEND AVE~·JUE 3P.M. to MIDNIGHT WEEKDAYS PHONE 289-0639  


The special lecture is offere<i by the Center for Civil Rights and the 



TIDS WEEK!! 
Law School in conjunction with an international conference on human 
l;ONITE! 9 -llpm kevin o'hara 
rights to b~ held of Apr. 27-30. Benda's appearance is sponsored by the John Marshall Law School jn TUES: -9-llpm joe bauer cooperation with Notre Dame. 
Before becoming president ofthe 

WED: 9~ I 1:30pm jim dorgan
high ·court in 1971 , Benda had 
GAME 
maintained a law practice sinoe 
NOW OPEN
with dennis sliva and the_ original woodgie
1956 and had served in the Buden-
Hickory Rd. lebo & rhythm section: wally givler, Only
3;The Observer 
• PINBALL

joel burian & eric philippsen 
• FOOSBALL Night Editor: Debbie _Dahr-1
ling THURS: 9 _ llpm jake schneider 
COLLEGE 
Editor: Carroll DAY 
Asst. Night & bill carey 
Features layout: Dave FRI: 9 llpm john salveson 
SUNDAY
O'Keefe 

Sports layout: Greg ~olman Show college
SAT:. 8:30 -lOpm michele parnell, 
ID & get $1.00
Typists: Sue Shellenburger, 

off 16" Family
Anne Giere, Mary Ann Keefe, al rabideau & paul hatem 
size Pizza 

Marianne Corr Early Morning Typist: Karen 10 ~ 11:30pm _jules Chiames 
Day Editor: Jack Pizzolato COMING NEXT WEEK! NAZZ and
Copy Reader: Pat Cole . 

31 N. AT DARDEN RD. "Where Pina is Always in Good Tarte!"
Photographer.:.· L~o· Hanseil;~-< 

,... • • : -.. f " ... •• :-... _,;. .~ .. ·­
__I 
-

Monday, April 25, 1977 the observer 





SMC educational-programs include American Scene series 

[continued from page 1] no ottsetting income. The Univer­sity is seeking $1 million to maintain these places of worship. allocating $500,000 for Sacred­Heart aud $25,000 for each hall chapel. 
The largest single component of the endowment, $2 million, is set for building up the University's programs in the service of the Church. Several programs now exist at Notre Dame and the University hopes to maintain and expand them. Thes~ programs 
include The Catholic Committee on Urban Ministry (CCUM) , the, Center for Pastoral and , Social Ministry. Continuing Education Program for Clergy, Center for Human Development, and the newest, the Murphy Center for Liturgical Research. 
The programs are basically help­ing those at the level of a diocese or other religious institute but they benefit from their affiliation with Notre Dame. , 
One other important develop­1 ment at Notre Dame is the expan­sion of the program for preparing future priests. The University has had a program of studies for priestly ministry since 1968, but is now actively encouraging Roman Catholic dioceses throughout the nation to send their most promising seminarians to study at Notre 
-

Dame. The University believes. 
· however, that if more scholarships were available, more top seminar­ians would study at Notre Dame. "Our Catholic character should have its first impress upon our intellectual work. But it should also permeate 'in a way we could hardly describe as secondary -the' community oflearne~s. The life in our residence halls, and the inter­changes between faculty, students, ·administrators and alumni must not give the Iieto the faith which is false if not verified by love," concluded'' the COUP section of 
Catholic charaCter~ 
Tomorrow: The Campaign for Notre Dame and aeademic support for the University. 
' 

'Mother Courage' to be performed 
"Mother Courage," a cabaret production of this epic play written by Bertolt. Brecht, will be perform­ed by the Notre Dame-St. Mary!s Theatre tonight and tomorrow night, 7 p.m. at Vegetable Buddies in South Bend. , ­
The play, directed by Senior Liz Karl, is open to the public and free' of cha~ge. 
Bumperstickers may so~ve student hitchhiking problem 
by Brigid Rafferty Staff Reporter 
Due to the recent rise in un­

pleasant student hitchh;king ex­
periences, the Ombudsmn Service 
is working on a suggestion for 
"Safe Driver" bumperstickers. 
The idea won the "policy" cate­
gory of the Ombudsman's "Oper­
ation Brainstorm" contest. 
The "Safe Driver" idea, sug­

gested by Beth DeLucanay, calls 
for bumper stickers which can be 
seen from long distances, letting 
hitchhikers know that cars on which 
the stickers are placed are safe to 
enter. The stickers would be 
distributed to faculty members, 
staff members and students. 
"It's similar to the 'block home' ,~!.an .i~. ~?~.e..c_i~ies,: '..explai_ned 
Tom Lux, Ombudsman Community Relations director. "It's an ori­ginal idea, it would not be hard to implement, and it is something which needed to be done. because of all the hitchhiking problems. We are looking into the details of how to put it into effect.'' 
According to Lux, the Ombuds­man hopes to put th~ "Safe Dirver" idea into use by this fall, and feels that there is a fairly good chance for its approval. The idea would be turned over to a different division of the Ombudsman to work on, it agreed upon, and presented to Administration officials . 
"The University seems to be against hitchhiking and concerned 
·with the students' safety, so we hope that they will be receptive to the "Safe Driver" idea," Lux 
_ stated. 
by Jean Powley St. Mary's Editor 
Editor's Note: This is the first of a four-part series on innovative edu­cational programs at St. Mary's. Sub-.equent articles will examine the college's Writing Clinic, the math department's Personalized System of Instruction program and tandem courses between depart· ments. 
Samuel Beckett's "Waiting for Godot" -"Las Danzas Venezuela" -a lecture on ethics in business ­"Dido and Aeneas," an opera workshop-a lecture on '·'Sad, Sad, Sad First Ladies and Some Notable Exceptions" -"Fiddler on the Roof' -Sound like a cultural extrav­aganza at Washington, -D.C.'s. Kennedy Center? You're close. It's a partial list of events for this semester's American Scene cultur­al series at St. Mary's. 
Listed as Humanistic Studies 373, the one-credit, pass-fail series is now in its seventh year. It was begun in the spring of 1970 as the education department's contribu­tion to the College's 125th anniver­sary. Approximately 160 students participated in the original two­credit "Trends in Contemporary Education" series (Ed. 173) that 
spring. 
The original series was a course oriented to consider particular trends in American education with the implications in every phase of man's life. 
Among the lecturers were such famous educators as Robert M. Hutchins, president of the Center for the Study of Democratic Institu­tions (the first lecturer); Hendrik 
D. Gideonse, a Danforth lecturer; and HowardS. Weaver, dean of the Yale University School of Art .and Architecture, to name a few. 
With a series of such distinguish­ed lecturers, bibliographies, re­quired readings and follow-up dis-· cussion groups, the college provid­ed opportunities for its students, faculty and the people of the South Bend-Mishawaka community to discuss important contemporary issues which face the American public in the field of education. 
Many departments were involv­ed in the series because the lecturers represented interdiscipli­nary approaches to contemporary problems and trends in education. 
Reaction from both students and faculty was extremely favorable. One student at the time thanked 
Gabriel receives insignia of French Legion of Honor 
Prof. A.L. Gabriel, director of and has received the decorationthe Folsom Ambrosiana Microfilm 
and Photographic Collection will receive the insignia of Officer of the French Legion of Honor today at ceremonies in Paris. 1 
Presenting the honor will be : Philippe Olivier, French ambas-1 sador to Cyprus and former French 1 consul general in Chicago, at a j reception to be attended by French • 
and  American  friends  of  the  .'  
mediaeval scholar.  
Gabriel  was  director  'of  the .  

French ,College in Hungary from ~ 1938_to 1947 and for most of that . period was also a professor at the ' Univeristy of'Budapest. He joined 
' the Notre Dame faculty in 1948 and was director of the University's Mediaeval Institute from· 1953 to 1975, whim he assumed super­vision of Notre Dame's effort to photograph and microfilm the scientific manuscripts and art treasures of Milan's Ambrosiana Library with support from ·the Samuel H~ Kress foundation. 
Gabriel is a corresponding fellow of. the French and Bavarian Aca­demies of Sciences, a fellow of the Royal Historical Society 'and of the Mediaeval Academy of America,' 
Commander of the Order of Merit from Italy. 
the committee in a questionaire "forthe chance to become exposed and to so enjoy the talented, intellectual and delightful lecturers and lectures we were given ­though it is trite to say so, I feel I gained a great deal from the course." 
However, at the request of the students attending the series, a fall program was planned integrating other departments more extensive­ly, especially the performing arts. 
The present series has an enroll­ment of 275 students from both St. Mary's and Notre Dame. Atten­

, dance at 12 out of 14 lectures and/or performing arts events is required in order to collect credit. This semester it is co-sponsored by the Performing Arts series, the Notre Dame -St. Mary's theatre and the departments of mathema­tics, religious studies, chemistry and physics, humanistic studies, business and economics, philo­sophy, nursing, history and educa­tion. According to the series founder and coordinator, Sister Maria C. McDermott, "The purpose of the series is to , give faculty and students an opportunity to meet and to hear significant leaders in the contemporary American scene. As it has progressed, the program has increasingly represented a wide cross-~ction of disciplines, with approximately half of the oferings from the theatre and the performing arts. It is a significant sustained program that remains a cultural attraction to the St. Mary's student body and its publ~cs. ·~ 
NO 

Fiddler on the Roof 
The loving theatrical hymn to the Jewish people based the Sholem Aleichem stories 

SMC 
Apr. 29,.30 May 5, 6, 7THEATRE .8:00pm Olauglin Aud. 284-4176 $2.50 

YOU ARE CORDIALLY INVITED 

-~----------------------­
the observer Monday, April 25, 1977
4 

Rep. Mitchell discusses black political events 

Editor's note: Rep. Parren J. Mitchell [D-Md.], chairman of the Black Congres­sional Congress in Washington, D. C., was in South Bend recendy for the local Urban League's Annual Dinner. Be discussed the functions of the Caucas, Carter's adminis­tration and Black political events with Special Projects Editor Patrick Cole. 
THE OBSERVER: How long have you been in Congress? MITCHELL: I have been in Congress for six years. This is the beginning of the seventh year. Sometimes it seems like 90 years! THE OBSERVER: Could you explain the purpose of the Black Political Caucas? Is this to be confused with the ~ Congressional Caucas? MITCHELL: No, they are two different things altogether. The Congressional 
· Black Congress is made up of the Black men and women who serve in the U.S. House of Representatives. We're all in the Democratic party, but if one was a Republican, we would get him or her to join. But the members of Congress only are members of the Black Congressional Caucas. There is a Black Political Caucas made up of representative and various elected groups. People in New York, Mayor Hatcher in Gary and others make up the Black Political Caucas. They are two distinct groups. We work together well, we coordinate together well, but we are not one of the same. · THE OBSERVER: What was the purpose of its formation? Who founded it? MITCHELL: The formation of the Congres­sional Black Caucas? THE OBSERVER: The Polltical Caucas. MITCHELL: That caucas came into being primarily in response to Nixon's non­responsiveness to Blacks. It came into being regarding the time when Nixon was on his way out, and there was a hope that all the various political Black groups would come together in one small organization, that obviously it could have much more political clout than one independent group operating or two individual groups operat­ing. So that's the reason it essentially came into being. THE OBSERVER: So how long has this been in effect? MITCHELL: It has been in effect just about as long as the caucas, around 1970 it began. 
THE OBSERVER: Now you are chairman of the Political Caucas, right? MITCHELL: No, I'm chairman of the Congressional Caucas. THE OBSERVER: So how is that organized? MITCHELL: We have a board of officers, a vice-chairman and a treasurer and so forth. 
We have an executive committee-it is not highly structured because there are only a handful of Black people serving in the Congress. There are only 16 of us. And that says something about America. There are 435 members who serve in the U.S. House of Representatives. And we are only 16 of that 435. We lost one seat because of Andy Young who went to the United Nations as the ambassador there and he was replaced by a white person. 
THE OBSERVER: Are you concerned about social issues, issues that apply to ' only Black people? Does the Caucas speak for all causes? MITCHELL: For all causes, but our obvious thrust is got to be for Black people and I'm not ashamed of that. For as long as Blacks do not truly enjoy full citizenship in this country, there's got to be some 

spokesman, a group advocating the cause 
of Blacks. But what we do in terms of our 
work in our legislation, we advocate for 
Blacks -for all minorities and for all the 
poor. Obviously many whites have 
benefited from the things we have done. I 
hope some Blacks have benefited from 
what we have done -I hope that they have. 
In act. I know that they have. 
THE OBSERVER: Does having a caucas 
take care of some of the needs and 
concerns of Black Legislators -the prob­
lems that some Black Legislators may have 
in Washington? 
MITCHELL: Well, not really. You see, by 
being members of Congress we are the 
legislators. Each one of us is a legislator. 
And we try to handle legislation that can 
help Black Americans. If there is a state 
senator in Georgia who is working in the 
Georgia assembly and he needs some help 
in terms of legislation, we try to help him 
with that. Our primary goal is legislation 
at the Federal level, not at the state, not at 
the citv level. THE OBSERVER: Bow do you view Carter's administration so far? Do you think it is good or bad? In what areas has he promised to give help to Blacks? MITCHELL: I have very mixed emotions about the Carter administration. There have been some good things accomplished, and some things that have caused me a great deal of personal dissappointment. For example, I was convinced that we would have at least two Blacks appointed to Cabinet positions. This has not been done. Ambassador Young is not truly a member 
ofthe Cabinet. So we can't count him as a cabinet position. We have only one and that's Secretary Harris at HUD (Housing and Urban Development) and that was a bitter disappointment. I have been disap­pointed at the failure to appoint blacks in sufficient numbers in the lower level positions -assistant secretary, deputy and so forth. It's been a dismal failure and we have talked to the President about this and he is aware how bitterly disappointed we are. The third bitter disappointment for me is the failure of the Carter administra­tion to move in a bold and courageous fashion in terms of the joblessness in this country. That was one of his main campaign promises -he was going to put America back to work. But the Administra­tion, in my opinion, has been very timid and cautious and has not done the job necessary to put America back to work. THE OBSE\(VER: How has Carter respon­ded to .V"q · ' 1111appointments? MITCHELL: Well, he has indicated that he still retains his committment to end 
joblessness, but it must be done at a pace, and my counter•argument is: how long can people out of work remain out of work? He has also indicated that he's going to do much more in terms of assistant deputy spots and deputy spots and two-thirds have yet to be fifled. And he alleges that he is going to do a much better job for Blacks in filling those spots. But based on the performance to date, obviously I have some skepticism about it. THE OBSERVER: I know that the appoint­ment of Attorney General Griffin Bell caused a lot of controversy across the nation. How did the Caucas respond to that? 
MITCHELL: The caucas authorized me to go and testify against Griffin Bell's nomination which I did. I testified to the Senate Judiciary Committee practically all day one day opposing Griffin Bell. THE OBSERVER: And what did you see besides his negative background? MITCHELL: It was clear to me that he had not been one of the advocates for desegregation in the South. As I understand it, it was a difficult time. You had some men and some judges who stood up against the mob during that time. Griffin Bell didn't. Judge Minor Wisdom was a very courageous judge. You had some people in state offices -Frank Graham in North Carolina -who simply stood up against the mob and who were going to do what was right. But from all I 
·could gather, Griffin Bell was never an advocate. He was never the person out there telling the mob, "You're wrong." Now he alleged· that he was a concilliator. Well I didn't find much in the record to indicate that he conciliated. Indeed, it was quite to the contrary that he was apparent­ly the prime resistor in desegregation, the strategist behind this. THE OBSERVER: Now that he's being watched and people have objected to his appointment, do you think that he'll change in any way? MITCHELL: Well, strangely enough, he's done better than any other cabinet member in appointing Blacks. The Black Caucas met with him abQut a month ago, and he 
broughrin a list of his Black appointees. It's far better than any other cabinet member ­even Patricia Harris'! Of course we praised him for that, but I pointed out to him that this is only part of the issue. I want to see how the Justice L>epartment is going to react to further attempts to demise 
Symposium on fantasy, religion Apr. 25-27 
by Peggy Schumaker 

The Student Union Academic Commis­sion will present a Symposium on Fantasy and Religion on April 25-27. 
The two main speakers will be Clyde Kilby, professor emeritus at Wheaton College, and Otto Bird, professor in the General Program at Notre Dame. 
On Monday, April 25 Kilby will give a lecture on "Tolkien Today," at 7 p.m. On Tuesday, April 26, Bird Will speak on "Christianity and Fairy Tales" at 7 p.m. and Kilby will speak on "The Voice of C. S. Lewis" at 8:30p.m. On Wednesday, April 27, Kilby will speak from 7 to 8 p.m. on "The inklinds," and from 8:15 to 9:30p.m. the closing session of the symposium will take place. From 9:30 to 10:30 p.m. on Wednesday, a reception will take place in the library lounge. All lectures take place in the Library Auditorium. 
Otto Bird is an authOl' and professor at Notre Dame. His writing include Cultures In Conftlct, Sylloglatk and Its Extensions, and The Idea of Jasdce. Bird studied graduate philosophy at the University of Chicago and completed his doctorate at the Institute of Medieval Studies at tht uni~ersity of _Toronto. Much of his research and study has been dedicated to the theory and history of the Liberal Arts and Humanities. 
In 1950 he became the first director of the General Program at Notre Dame. In the late 1960's, on leave from Notre Dame, he served on the committee responsible for preparing the 15th edition of the Encyclo­pedta Hrittanica. 
Clyde Kilby is a professor of English at Wheaton College. He lectures widely on the works ofTolkien and C. S. Lewis. He is also Curator of the Marion E. Wade Collection of Wheaton, which houses the works of Tolkien, Lewis, Sayers, Charles Williams and others. Admission to the symposium is free. 
ND-SMC theater given award 
The Notre Dame-St. Mary's Theatre will receive a Volunteer Award today from the St. Joseph Valley's division of Project Head­start. 
Project Headstart is a child development program that gives pre-school children from eco­nomically and culturally disadvan­taged backgrounds the develop­mental resources they need to enter school. The Volunteer Awards, presented annually at a banquet at Zion Church in down­town South Bend, are given in honor·of those groups throughout the community that have contri­buted significantly during the year to the Deadstart program. 
Every year the Notre D~me-St. Mary's Theatre lends its services to Project Headstart by sending groups of students to most of the eighteen Headstart centers in the area. The groups perform enter­taining and educational skits for the children in the program. In the past, the groups have even dressed up as clowns and held a Oown Day at tbe..downtown Mall. 
. school desegregation. I want to see how the Justice Department is going to react to real enforcement of civil rights. And I told the Attorney General that if he comes through at the end of the year looking good, that I would be the first to apologize. But he's on test for a year! 
THE OBSERVER: Newsweek reported that Julian Bond was trying to persuade Young not to accept the U.N. Ambassador post. This may have been in the interests of the state of Georgia. But bow did the other members of the Caucas respond? MITCHELL: I felt all of the members of the Caucas would have preferred Ambas­sador Yound to stay in Congress. It was his decision to make and we can't get inside a man's head to know exactly what's going on. There is tremendous symbolic value to being the first Black ambassador to the United Nations. On the other hand, we felt because of his unique relationship with the President and the very pressing domestic problems we have, then perhaps we Black people would have been better off had he stayed. THE OBSERVER: So do you think the needs of Blacks can be better served being in the position that he presendy is in rather than in Congress? MITCHEU: I think he could better serve the domestic needs of Blacks by being in the Congress. And there is another dimension to it. Obviously it is important that we 'develop a real significant, viable linkage between Black Americans and Black Africans. I think that's tremendous­ly important. I think we should have the same fervent feeling and commitment to Africa as do the people of the Jewish faith have towards Israel. To the extent that his service as ambassador to the Untted Nations will facilitate that linkage between Black Africa and Black America, to the 
extenct that his service will strengthenthat bond. then he is also serving Black people in this other .dimension. THE OBSERVER: When he was appointed some people expressed concern about his qualifications, that he didn't. have much background in foreign relations. How did you see his qualifications? MITCHELL: When I first ran for Congress, people questioned my qualifica­tions. When Shirley Chisolm first ra.n, people questioned her qualifications. And I think there's always the question when the person is Black · how qualified is he or she. And I just think that if you're a good administrator and a smart person and willing tolearn, you don't need a whole lot of qualifications. I think I could do. that job at the United Nations, surrounding myself with good, talented people and being a good administrator. I think I could serve as the President of the United States. And I think Andrew Young could, and I thin Harold Ford of Tennessee could. It's a question of the extent to which you are a good student and the extent to which you surround yourself with good people who are able, dedicated and knowledgeable. THE OBSERVER: What about the appointment of other Blacks? Do you think Patricia Banis to the BUD post was a wise decision? · MITCHELL: Pat Harris is a remarkable woman. If you've seen the pictures of her or seen her in person, she's beautiful! But that shouldn't mislead anyone. She's tough as nails and awfully sharp and a tough lawyer and is committed to equal housing for Americans. I think it's an excellent appointment. She is going to make mistakes. Who doesn't? I think the President has always made mistakes. A few mistakes don't worry me. It's the overall dedication and the overall commit­ment that one brings to the job. THE OBSERVER: At this point, what aspects of Black society need to be improved most? MITCliELL: I guess the overriding tragedy in my mind is that you got Black Americans who enjoy the trappings of equality, the trappings of America. And that ten per cent is being used as sort of a showcase with 16 members of Congress around the world or some Blacks serving on the board of General Motors. The overriding tragedy is that most Black people have not seen their lives substan­tially better in the last ten years. So I guess the essential problem for me is to prevent classness from developing where a certain group, a certain percentage enjoy some of the trappings of America, and in so doing it, separate them from the masses. And I think that would be a monumental mistake for Blacks. THE OBSERVER: Thank you, Mr. MltcheU for your time. MITCBRJ.J,:. You're quite welcome. 
Fictioneering 
Editor's Note: With the publication of this short story, Observer Features intro­duces "Fictioneering," an opportunity for 
members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community to have short works of litera­ture published in print. Hopefully, this project will provide an alternative to the more conventional outlets for the literary talents of students, staff and faculty. Anyone interested in submitting works for consideration need on1y bring them to the Observer office or call 7471. Here's hoping that you enjoy today's stories, the first in what will hopefully become a steady diet of solid literature by members of the univer­sity community. 
"Leonard, I think I'll die next week." Walter said the words between bites of pastrami pizza. "OK Walt, you do that," Leonard said with a frown. "But will you quit picking the mushrooms off your pizza? It really bugs me when you do that--it really does." Walter held a small mush­room balanced on his thumb, and stared at it contemplatively. 
"No, I mean it Lenny. I had this dream, see. I dreamed I was in this big forest. It was real dark, and I couldn't get out, so I started walking until I came to this cleared part, and saw a hole or something. And I walked up to it, and, Lenny, you know what it was? It was a grave, Lenny, and there was this big concrete tombstone with a spotlight or something on it--you know, like one of those lights that are attached to the top of big pictures in museums and places, and you know what it said?" Leonard noticed that Walter had a piece of cheese stuck between his front teeth, but didn't say anything. "It said ... " Walter leaned over the table and squinted intensely behind his spectacles. "It said--Here Rests the Soul of Walter Bradly Hatford the Third. A Great Man with Simple Tastes." 
Walter leaned back and closed his eyes, allowing his head to fall limply onto his shoulder. "Cut it out Walter," Leonard said. "You give my the creeps." Walter opened his eyes, and shrugged. "Oh well, what's the use. I've accepted it. But you don'.t want to think about it. You'll go on .and graduate this year, go to Law School, and maybe someday you'll look through your yearbook and see my picture--they'll have to leave my picture in--maybe with a dedication or something. Anyway, you'll see my picture, and maybe you'll say to yourself, 'Ah, poor Walter. I remember 
Photojournalism 
From Man To Clown 
by Maureen Sajbel 
I walked into the Stepan Center an hour before the first performance of the Emmett Kelly Jr. Circus. I wanted to take pictures of the clowns putting on makeup for a photography class project, but knew that this was usually a forbidden practice. Oowns, like actors, don't want the public to see them making up for a show. It takes the magic out of the transformation from man to clown. 
One of the circus performers pointed out a young boy with a star earring in his left ear and said, "Ask Paul about the clowns." The boy was short, but must have been at least 20 years old. He said that I could talk to his dad. who was a clown. We walked together through the drizzle to the area where all the motor homes and trucks were parked. He rang a doorbell and I was ushered into the mobile home of Emmett Kelly Jr. 
The dirty blue carpet of the mobile home showed evidence of heavy traffic, and papers lay on the floor in random piles. A stereo with large speakers played big-band music from the kitchen counter, and a black fur covered bed was raised on a platform at the near end of the trailer. 
Monday, April 25, 1977 the observer 
Walter's Vision 

sneered at me, the amateur photographer, 
but changed his tone when he found out 
that this student had permission to watch 
Kelly put on his makeup. 
"You're really lucky," he said. 
I walked to the mobile home with Kelly 
and we went inside and sat down. He 
offered me a cup of coffee and turned on 
the big band tape once again. It was from 
the Atmed Forces radio broadcast of "One 
Night Stand", he said. He was collecting 
recordings of the old radio show and had 
them on tapes and albums. He said it was 
the only music to listen to. The orchestra 
didn't drown out the singer and you could 
understand all the words. · 
The slight man sat down, lit a cigarette 
and then began kneading his pink rubber 
clown nose. His makeup box was small and 
he used only a handmirror and desklamp. 
He said that he had to skip shaving in the 
morning so that his makeup would go on 
evenly.. On a clean-shaven face, he said, 
the makeup smears and goes on in big 
streaks. Kelly frrst drew on a large white frown, }}i_s_ trademark•. and then proceeded to put 
This is the home of one of the world's best known clowns and his wife. Kelly's mother-in-law was visiting and she rested on a couch covered by a comforter. 
After introducing myself, I asked the performer if I could take pictures of him putting on his clown makeup. The thin figure clad in mismatched pants and shirt looked more like a 60-year-old farmer than a circus clown. He was unshaven and smoked an unfiltered cigarette. 
He hesitated and then said I was welcome to. 
I had some spare time before he would begin his makeup, so I wandered around outside in the parking lot. A small clown, a boy of ten, was putting on his grease paint 
in the back of a circus wagon. He carefully applied his own makeup flawlessly. I sat with him and we talked of his correspon­dence school,· the makeup he was getting all over his pants, and how he liked what he was doing. He told me that he wanted to spend the rest of his life. working in the circus. 
Walking back to the mobile home I saw ~elly standing outside, talking to televi­su~n reporters. One of the ca~~ra. ~en___ 
eating pizza with him once at "Barnaby's". I even bitched at him about picking off the mushrooms. If I'd only known it was his last..." 
"Walter, if you really think I'm going to believe this business about your Stupid dreams, you're crazy." 
"No, really Leonard. It was all so clear. I even remember--in the dream--1 had just 
L____________________________________________________________________________________ -­
by Janet Carney 

fake--you and your dreams. Last pizza, my ass." 
As Leonard slowly opened his eyes, a waitress was leaning over the table, replacing the empty plate with another steaming pastrami pizza. "Now you sit there and tell me you can't eat that?" 
Walter looked down at the plate, shaking his head. "I don't know, Lenny. It's just 
enough money to split a pizza. I was sitting ·going to turn to sand in my mouth. But I'll 
right here in booth 34--with you Lenny. You were in the dream too. And after we'd finished--! knew I'd never eat again. The whole material world would just become meaningless to me. No need for food, money ... " Walter held his wallet open. "See? Empty. This is the night, Lenny. All the pieces fit." He put his wallet down and picked up the last piece of pizza. "This is it, Lenny. The last time you'll ever see me picking off mush­rooms." Leonard frowned, and walked without a word to the orders .counter. When he returned, Walter had just finished the last piece, and was leaning back in his seat with his eyes closed and his hands folded on his lap. Leonard watched him for a while, and finally nudged his shoulder. "OK Walt, you can get off it now. You are the biggest goddamn try--really." 
He picked up a piece and held it before him, shaking his head. He bit delicately at the tip, grimacing. Lenny watched closely, smiling mischievously. Walter swallowed with great effort, then took another, larger bite. "Hey Lenny, this is pretty good. And no mushrooms." 
"Hal I knew it!"Leonard cried, sitting back triumphantly. "You and your dreams. You're so full of it, Walter. I never thought I'd find myself buying you a pizza, but it was worth every cent just to prove you wrong. God, you are so dumb." 
"Yeah, you're right Lenny," Walter said as he finished off the piece and reached for another. "I guess I'm not going to die next week after aiL" Walter wiped his mouth. "Yep, I guess I'm pretty stupid some­times. Oh, here, would you like a piece?" 
on the pink putty nose and red and black greasepaint. · 
"I've been a clown since 1960," he said, "and have traveled all over the United States ~nd parts of Canada.'' 
From time to time he would look out his mobile home window and watch people going into Stepan Center. "They're still pouring in,'' he said to his mother-in-law in a tone of amazement. 
Kelly 'had many things to worry about. The weather might keep people away, and the shift in location from St. Mary's to Notre Dame was an unexpected change. Also, the circus had had problems with truck breakdowns on the way, and supplies and equipment had been forgotten in the commotion and switching of trucks. 
He donned an oversized ragmuffin coat that "matched" his tattered, patched and pinned pants. His shoes were bulbous and oversized. He ran his fingers through his randomly styled hair and placed a crown­tess hat on his head. Emmett Kelly Jr., the clown, was complete. As he walked ou~ of the trailer, every trace of Emmett Kelly Jr., the man who loved 1940 radio shows and worried about the weather, Wa.'i gone. 
r 
6 

the observer Monday, April 25, 1977 
Of Student Affairs Commission 
Schneider named chairman 
bv Joe Slovinec Staff Reporter 
John A. Schneider, president ot the CBS Broadcast Group which operates CBS radio. television and news was appointed Chairmafl of the Student Affairs Committee of the Board of Trustees of the University bv Edward Stephan, Chairma~ of the Board of Trustees. 
Schneider succeeds Dr. Thomas Carnev as chairman of the Student Affair~ Committee. Carney was appointed Chairman of the Aca­demic and Faculty Affairs Com­mittee to replace Dr. Rosemary Park. who is retiring. 
Schneider. who was born in !42o. began his media career at WGN in Chicago and WCAU in Philadelphia. Schneider was ap­pointed to~the College of Arts and Letters Advisory Council in 1967 and is currently a member of the Executive Committee of the Board 

of Trustees. Schneider, a native of Chicago, resides in Greenwich, Connecticut, and is married with three children. His son William is a Notre Dame graduate. 
Schneider has been described as being "faithful in attending Stu­dent Affairs Committee meetings" and is a "person who had served in the committee right along." Schneider has worked closely with Student Affairs Vice President Br. Just Paczesny. Schneider recently gave a talk in the College of Business Administration on the 
McCarty to speak at SMC 
Virginia McCarty, vice-president of the Indiana Board of Law Examiners, will deliver the lecture for the St. Mary's Law Celebration. 
The presentation, a part of the American Scenes Lecture Series, will begin tonight in Carroll Hall at 7:30p.m. 
McCarty serves on the board of the Indiana Lawyers Commission. She chairs the Criminal Justice Subcommittee of the Governor's Commission on Privacy. She is a member of the House of Delegates of the Indiana Bar Association, 
South Bend history 
[continued from page 7J 
The fundamental message stres­sed and then confirmed by the commission, interest groups, Brian Crumlish, the Gibney's and Ruth Price is "We can build new buildings but we don't have to destroy what's already standing just because the structure has become old. We need that to give us that same sense of time, and for no other reason." 

~'re 
counting on 
you. 


• .:11 ~· • • •• • • .., ......... _.,..,.. 


formerly serving as legislative court Iiason committee chairman for the latter organization. She also recently served on the Legislative Council Property Tax Codification Committee. 
The public is invited to tonight's lecture. 
M.B.A. program. 
The Student Affairs Committee 
is one of a number of committees on the Board of Trustees. But matters are not brought directly to the Board ofTrustees. The student Affairs Committee has student representatives and meets at least 
twice a year. 

The committee discusses issues and proposals concerning student life. After the committee reaches a decision of its proposals, the Chair­man would make a report to the Boll!"d at the next meeting and make a "recommendation to the Board." The purposes of the Student Affairs Committee are to gather information, meet with people and determine problems in student life. 
Students tell the Student Affairs Committee what they desire and the committee studies the costs, proposals and recommendations. The renovation of LaFortune Cen­ter is one area where the Student Affairs Committee has acted. The agenda of the Board of Trustees' meetings consists of committee reports which the Board reviews in order tn make its final decisions. 
Escapee commits suicide after shooting. girlfriend 
PATI'ERSON* La. [API -A prison escapee shot and wound­ed a former girlfriend and her infant daughter, then held a young woman hostage for six hours before releasing her and killing himself, police said. 
Robert Broomfield, 27, was found shot once in the head after tear gas was fired into the house where he was hiding, ~ Police Chief Jessie Paul said. He said police fired no shots. 
Moments earlier, Broomfield had released his hostage, iden­tified as 19-year-old Neva Og­win, unharmed. Police said he was armed with two pistols but had agreed to trade the girl for a shotgun and five shells. 
Broomfield never got the gun, which had been shoved through an open door, because the. girl brought it out with her, Paul said. 
"When he released her, we asked him to come out, but he said he wasn't coming and wouldn't be put in jail," Paul said. He said officers then fired the tear gas and heard two shots. 
Broomfield, serving time for two burglary convictions, was wanted for simple escape after failing to return from an Easter leave at'a prison in Lafayette. 
Paul said yesterday's incident began about 3:30 a.m. when Broomfield broke into the home of Dolores Watts, 21, in this community 100 miles west of New Orleans. 
She told police that Broom­field was expecting her to have money for the two of them to flee to Houston. 
Paul said an argument began when the woman didn't have the money and Broomfield shot the woman three times and shot her 2-year-old daughter, Alon­da, at least once. 
The woman was listed in satisfactory condition at a near­by hospital and the child was taken to New Orleans for sur­gery. 
When neighbors called po­lice, Broomfield broke into ano­ther home nearby. When police arrived, they found Broomfield holding the teen-ager hostage, and the six-hour stakeout be­~an. 


J 
Continental Airlines. And remember, if you can't fly Continental. try to have a nice trip anyway. 
•continental will pnl\'ide information regarding flights and numher of seats availahle. Purchase ticket within 10 days after reservations are con­firmed. request ,pace at least 14 days prior to date of travel. stay 7-JO days. 24~\. discount appli.:s from 61 I '77-9/15/77. All other times our 2!1% discount applies. 
Fares and savings suhject to change without notice. The Coach Puh is nn all Continental DC~Hrs excluding Hawaii thwugh service. 
We really mO\'e our tail for you. 
·::::·::::::;::=·:::· .. · 
AIRUNES 

The Proud Bird with the Golden Tail. 
Continental's got a good deal going for you next time you fly to one of our many domestic destinations-our Economy Excursion Fares* give you 24% savings all sum­mer long, or you can skip a meal and save 10% on our Economy Fares. good any time of the year. 
To put you in the mood for your vacation, we've got the only Coach Pub in the Sky on board our wide-bodied DC·lO's, plus filmed concerts. cumedy and sports. And our spacious 727's offer free stereo, overhead storage anu a middle seat that folds down when unoccupied to give you lots of room to. relax or spread out the books. 
Don't forget to ask about our special travel programs. such as our California Campus Tours. California Fly/Drive Vacations or Yucatan Safari Holidays. 
For more information, call your Travel Agent or 
----........-~----­
Monday, April 25, 1977 the observer 
South Bend history
Inner city housing offers advantages • 
by Karen Hinks 

Editor's note: This is the last in a three-part series describing the efforts to preserve the historical heritage of South Bend. 
People become interested in buying a home in the inner city to restore it to its natural state only to become discouraged when they discover they cannot receive a loan. 
Jeff and David Gibney, brothers who are currently renovating an old house, attribuje_ the pr<;>blem to economics and sociology. 
"Let's face it, people stay away from the city because of the interracial balance," they said. "They fear the crime associated with city living." Both claim the area is not "the safest neighbor· hood in town, but we don't walk the streets with steel helmets on. This neighborhood has had the same reputation for twenty years--really 
ever  since  the  neighborhood  be­ 
came integrated."  
According  to  the brothers,  not  

only then are the city dwellings inexpensive but because of its questionable state, neighborhood homes are difficult to purchase. An example of this is a home bought in the Chapin Street area for $7500. The structure, as described by the owner. is in good condition and maintenance-free for five years. 
It is true that houses are avail­able but loans are difficult to obtain. The home on Chapin was sold by the previous owner on a land contract and interest free because of problems in the area. The present owners feel the crime level is "not what it's made out to be." 
After the encounter with the loan department of the banks, the Gibney's left discouraged. They had learned of an organization, Southhold Heritage Foundation, Inc. The foundation was created to "seek and administer funds in an attempt to help reserve the archi­tectural heritage of St. Joseph County". The foundation views the pieservation of neighborhoods as its ultimate program and focuses its first and primary interest on the West Washington Historic District. 
'We had heard of Southhold and that they had a revolving loan for home improvements and home acquisition," David recalls. "The revolving loan is made with the intention of allowing the Ioanee to restore the home. The foundation allows approximately a year or two to make the improvement. The home is the re-mortgaged with a conventional loan from a bank." 
Ten months later the Gibney's opened their home to the commun­ity for inspection and approval. 
Despite their varied and gifted . talents; the Gibney's-are ordinary people. Jeff teaches pre-school children and David builds new homes. Their interests vary. They make many, many creative things and their talent is manifested through the work in their home. Both men stressed however that they do not make a lot of money. Yet thev wanted a nice home and the city 'seemed to be the only place • to go. 
. -. 
The attractive aspect ot the neighborhood is the variety of people. Jeff observed that stu­dents, artists, professors and fami­lies live in the neighborhood be­cause of its charm and uniqueness. ·These people seem to be interes­ted in more than just a home for an investment. They are interested in a good home life.'' 
Friends often question the a­mount of labor, time and money that has been invested in the restoration. Their reply is a simple one: "So what. who cares." 
"When our friends ask us these questions we just answer, what else would we do in our spare time?'' 
The "spare-time" spent hand­painting designs on walls rather than wall-papering. skylighting ceilings. installing hard wide-board tloors. is time rarely spent today in home improvement. The Gibney's feel much of the quality of making things is lost. "Personally, no one considers they can crochet a table cloth. Sure it takes thousands of hours. but in the end, who cares? People used to spend their time doing those kinds of things and today we still have the same exact amount of time. We just choose to spend it doing ridiculous kinds of things." 
So the Gibney's attempted to make use of their time by making restoration a second job. The hand painting of the wall took hours and hours but ''we saved a bundle and we know we'll never bump into it again anywhere else but in our own home. Essentially, it's a poor man's method of decorating." 
The best advice the brothers can give to those interested in repeat­ing what they did is, "You must make a commitment to the house, the neighborhood, the labor and to yourself." They will both confirm the investment has beenwell worth it all. · 
Executive Director of. Southhold Heritage Foundation Ruth Price, views preservation and conserva­tion as a movement of concern in the entire country to preserve our natural resources. She defined the word "historic" as applying to sites, buildings and structures that have historical significance to the nation. "But," she stressed, "it goes a great deal beyond all of that.'' 
She observes that we are all caught in what's happening in the cities today. We destroy, demolish and cut-up into apartments, struc­tures that have been built of exceptionately good materials and workmanship. "In essence," she explained, "the character of the building is being violated when its desi!m is changed or altered.'' 
The belief of Southhold and the Historic Preservation Commission is if the structure is basically a good design, it should stand the test of time. Price emphasized that preservation is a far-reaching field. 
"It is not limited to historic ideas, and is certainly not a movement to create a lot of museums." Price explained that during the industrial period, many people became weal­thy overnight. The money was put into the homes. She cited Tippeca­noe Place, the former Studebaker mansion, as an example. Tippeca­noe has twenty fireplaces, no two are alike. Solid. wook on the walls, tloors, woodwork and doors, was imported from all over the world along with metals, marbles and chandaliers. 
She stated that the house is "Far too large" to be used for a family anymore and has never been updated. "Tippecanoe is such a beautiful home and the job of the preservationist is to discover ways for the structure to be used and enjoyed by the people of the community." 
And the people do come if for parties, receptions and dances. "They come in, pay a few dollars which goes back into the upkeep and they have the opportunity to use the building to its fullest." 
Price feels one of the biggest enemies of the inner city is the FHA. "When FHA was set up after the Depression to help people· get mortgages, it was strictly on the side of new construction and for the development of suburbs." The resulting effect of the federally insured money, according to Price is that the money went into the suburbs and so one was left to insure the inner city. 
The government is seen by Price as making a contribution to the eventual downfall ofthe inner city. But with the cost of housing construction so very high, people are coming back to the inner city simply because they can get good housing at a lower cost. 
Price pointed out the Southhold Foudation was the first commission initiated in Indiana for the promo­tion of historic restoration. But neighboring Elkhart has now joined in as the fourth comhtission. She attributes this to the growing awareness and sensitivity to tradi­tion and heritage that seems to be growing nationwide. 
She likens preservation to a family. "Every generation makes their contribution to society wheth­er in politics, economics or educa­tion. Grandparents need their children and grandchildren need their grandparents. .If every gen­eration were to begin without that backlog of grandparents and great­grandparents, they'd be forced to start from the beginning. Instead, grandparents provide that sense of respect of time for you." 
PriCe described buildings as being the same way. They are the face and geneology of the city. "We can build today and tomorrow we can look back on what we've built--we get a sense of time." 
[continued on page 6] 

SUMMER STORAGE 
·SAFE, EASY, INEXPENSIVE+ CLOSE TO CAMPUS ON US31 
At: MASTER MINI-WAREHOUSES 
self-Service Storage Open 7 Days LDcated iust north of State line Telephone: 683-1959 or 684-6991. 

ATTENTION: :students interested in serving on the Arts and Letters 
udent Advisory Council --~ntact Dan Perish (1552for further info 
------------------------------------------------------~-----~-~---~------~,
NOTICES Hickory Villa(le sublease for sum-Lost--Cowboy hat at law talent i
C'J 
Le' John Alden Messa(les do i'! 
Don'· like a bad habi' of someone you work wi'h? Want to break ott a committmen •? Want to phone your family tha• you're alive and well? Or tell your mo•her-in-law that you two 
are ooino on a vaca'ion year? 9-i Mon. thru Sa'. Proxy phone calls $5.00 287-7566  alone this  
.........................  ... ..........  

Accurate, fast typing. Mrs. Dono­
ho, 232-0746. Hours--8 am 10 8 pm 
...................................... Niles Auction--802 Fort St. 684-6954 or 684-4671. Auction every Friday 
7:30. We buy and sell furniture, appliances, antiques, and misc. Items daily 12 :00 pm to 6 pm. 
........................................ NEED TYPING? Executary, Inc. 
Profe4ssional Typing Service. 10 
typists--various typestyles. Term 
Papers: 85 cents per page, Resu­
mes: $2.00 per page. Call 232-0898. 
-·-···----------------------------------­WATER SAFETY INSTRUCTORS CURRENT CERTIFICATION SUM­
MER CHURCH CAMP POSITIONS EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOY­ER. SEND RESUME ATTN: PAT, 333 W COLFAX, South Bend, Ind. 46601 
ENGINEERING OPENINGS: Major client has needs for all degrees. New graduates or experienced. All fee paid positions for immediate re­sponse. Send resume or call toll free from South Bend. Karl Swank Managememt Services 1554 W. Franklin St, Elkhart, Ind. 46514 ph. 674-5022. 
St. Ed's Hall presents: Sticks and Bones--April 29 and 30, and May 1 at 8 pm in Washington Hall. Tickets are 50 cents and available at the door or from a cast member. 
Typing--neatly and accurately. 233­0166 after 5 or weekends. 
FOR RENT 

Girls. Rooms for rent in nice house ·close to Logan Center-for summer. 
$50 per month. 233-2613. 
mer, s·udio Apar•ment $125 per 
mun•h. Call2728006. lat~_e-ven_i_~~s: 
Summer lease from June 1 to Augus 25. Near NO-4 bedroom and s bedroom furnished houses. 1 bedroom and 3 bedroom furnished apar·men's. Call 234 2626. 
S Bedroom House, real nice, large 
living room and kitchen, fully turn­
ished, close to campus, has burglar 
alarm. Call Charlie Moore, 232-7180 
----------------------------------------------· 
Lod(le Cabins on Lake MiChigan tor 
ren• by days week or monlh. Only 30 
minu•es from campus. Gintaras 
Resor• 15860 Lake Shore Rd., Union 
Pier Mich. 616-469-3298. 
.. ..................... 
Two bedroom house to rent. Sum­
mer and, or school year. 1012 Eddy 
Street. 5120 month plus utilities. 
Call Oddies Harris at 232-8563. 
4 Bedrooms furnished apar•menl within walkin(l dis•ance of campus. Call William Hill, 232-1724. Sum­mer occupancy only. 
............. ................. 
Summer rental furnished, four-bed­
room house. $100. a month. phone 
277 -3604.' 
for rent for next September. Furn­ished four bedroom house. couple blocks from Notre Dame, Phone 277-3604. 
3 Excellent houses in fine neighbor­hoods. Each ideal for 4-6 students. Cost adjusted to number of students $225-$300 plus utilities. Call Mr. Gatto 234-6688. 
Rooms $40 month 233-1329. 
Apartment for summer rent, 2 bedrooms, utilities paid, $140 month 287-6823. 
Kitchenette furnished apartment, 1 person near campus, utilities furn­ished. Summer only 272-6174. 
LOST AND FOUND 

A gold charm bracelet with 7 gold hearts engraved with my childrl!n's names and birth dates, and one gold heart with a diamond set in it and an engraving on the back in my husband's own handwriting. if found, or have any il!formation 
show, i.n law building Saturday. 
lnf_o._c~n_lli\ich_~le_4_-_46_9~--------------·•­
LOST: Two keys on a silver ring at Saint Mary's or Notre Dame, If found cafl 4-4007. .................................. 
LOST: 1 pair of Bauer Ice-Skates in room 419 of the Ad. Bldg. Call Tom a• 8348, Reward. .......................................,,........... 
Found: watch between Grace and Library on Monday April 18. Call 
John at 6775. .. ............................................ Los': Gold digital man's watch over a' b-ball courts next to Stepan. Reward tor return. Call Bob at 1779. 
..................................... LosI: Bei(le cat with W.hite PiiWS and markin(ls. Call 277.1306. 
............. .. .......................... Found: A Cross Pen--if yours,. call 3510 to identify. ..................................... LOST: Blue dress hat with dark blue 
band. The lype Bogart wore. If's my uncle's hal, i!'s important that I get i' back. If you find il or know where 
i•s a• please call 3086. 
WANTED 
2 People need ride to Southeast 
Florida  at•er  finals.  Not  much  
ba(l(la(le. Tim 1868.  
WANTED:  A  copy  of  las!  year's  

Dome. Will pay$$$. 233-8855. 
Interviewers wanted to do attitude survey in South Bend. Must be over 21 and have high school diploma. Hourly wage; temporary employ­ment; tlexibl.e hours; transportation necessary. Interviews for these posi­tions will be held at 9 am Wednes­day, April 27 in Room 013 Northside Hall. Indiana University at South Bend, 1825 Northside Blvd. Indiana University is an equal opportunity employer. 
FOR SALE 
Rare Fish for sale very cheap. Call 1631. 
f./l• d Ad 
I

JOSSI ·le S II 
72 Dodge Challenger' 318 VB auto­
malic engine with console, Plla, AM 
radio, $1100.00 Call 272-3028. after 
5:30. 
............................................... Stereo Components: Kenwood K D­3330 table S150, Sansui 881 receiver $500, Teac A-360 cassette $350, Genesis speakers S300. Like new. 
Going overseas, must: sell!! Make 
me an offer. 8930. 
------------------------------•---------------­
'63 Rambler. Excellent condition 
(parts and body), snow tires, great 
buy! $350. Call7515. 
............................................. 
PERSONALS 
Jill, Happy Birthday, 21 years is legal, Now you're both a legal and a lethal "freethinker". Jane and Ro 
Jill Happy Birthday!! Brinkxelby 
Another announcement to all those who DID get away with it--THANKS It was great--love ya all! M.O.M. & MGM 
-------~--------·---·--------------------·----­
SMC Students! Save yourself a trip to NO-. Observer ads are now sold in SMC Observer Office--Regina South Basement--MW F--1 :30--3:30 and 
TI1-3. 
SMCND Community join together in wishin(l Laura Germanos a most blessed 22nd Birthday! 
63t Today.. S1arve Tomorrow. Hap-PY ir1hday Laur!! · 
We wouldn't forger your personal B(l Laur!! Just a lillie lale. 
VF--Forever Friends, Sorry about IT¥ verbia(le. Let's try-again. BF 
None Again?? ND-SMC Hotline 44311 open nigh Is. 
Q-ab the DoDo before it gets away. 
Happy Birthday Barbie--Love the two of us, Midge and Ken 
. LOOK·I·N·G-FOR..cciM·P-ETENT..TY­RSTS FOR NEXT YEAR'S OBSER+  I1I  
VER PRODUCTION STAFF. NTERESTED PLEASE DROP  IF A  1  
I«>TE OFF AT THE OBSERVER ~';:~~ 4~5~ 4 : 1 ~~E':i A~Ec:A~~  1  
1  
~~-~~~-~-~~--------------------------------­ '  
Jll,  Happy  21st  Birthday,  you  
cingbat!! Much love, Your Pamets  
There  once  was  a  Zambie  called  
Mike,  
Who thought in dunking he couldn't  
mss,  
&>  he leaped  to  the hoop with  all  
night  
And ended up breaking both wrists.  
O>es anybody know of the existence  
d  a definition for the word sleep? Is  
I  even  in  the  vocabulary  of  ND­ 
S'IAC?  Sleep,  Ltd.  is  anxious  to  
klow!! Call 4-4235 for suggestions.  
1-Sppy Birthday Jill Van De Veire.  
'ilday is your day--enjoy it. Ta-Ta  
'enkee Mike,  Dr.  J..  you're  not.  
~Iter luck next time.  2-C  
lOOP-Glad you got your butt out of  
!Ed. Now do something about your  
•roots".  Wear  your  Wednesday  
wlfit tomorrow and  two hours will  
~em  like no time at all. Your Ford  
ll!aler  
3eezy,  Whose  bed  ya  gonna  be  
~ebrating  in  tonight??  Happy  
8rthday, SandS  
To those "hand selected" few,  we  
would like to express our deep appreciation and thanks for joining  
us Saturday night in celebrating the  
close of An Tostal. It was definitely a  
party to remember.  
Sincerely,  

Anne Giere· 
Betsy Masana Chris "Clown" Nazar (3rd Annex LeMans) 

Nice 3 bedroom house for rent concerning it, please call collect '70 'honda CL450. New Engine. Rob thanks Ralph, Bouff, Jack, 
during summer. Close to Logan 914-834-7675. A liberal reward off­Excellent condition. Kept garraged. Tootie, Colette, Steve, Windmill 
Center. $100 per month. 259-7488, ered. Ouida N. Bundschuh. Must sell to buy car. Best offer 3408. House, Patsy and the rest for a 
happy birthday preview fri nile. 

'(\~1------------..-....-~........._____________________,_,______~---------------.........-----------~---_,.*__ ......_...._____________J 

---~-------------------~ 
8 the observer Monday, April 25, 1977 
Batton named tournament MVP
• 
TILCS nab second Bookstore crown 
by Paul Stevenson has been defeated in the finals, the four points for the losers. Mike Sports Editor second straight time by the TILCS. Vanacker, who was two of six from The score read TILCS 23-AWT 21. the field, came up with five steals
For the first time in four years, there was no rain for the Bookstor~ 
The TILCS were paced by Irish for A WT· eager, Dave Batton, who tallied ten The battle was no contest underBasketball finals. In addition, this buckets and secured 16 rebounds. the boards, as the TILCS out-was the first time the championship Notre Dame quarterback, Joe r~bounded A~T by a 43-2~ mar-game has been played on a Sunday. 
Montana connected on six field gtn. Followtng Batton with 16Howe\<·er, although there were a goal att~mpts, while John Dube-rebounds was Dubenetzky with tenfew things different about yester­netzky added four to the TILCS caroms. Montana hauled in sevenday's concluding battle of Book­attack rebounds for the victors.
store VI, nothing changed for the · The lead in the contest changedAverage White Team. 
!"WT was led by B~ll Paterno and hands throughout the game.
Yesterday's game marked the Mike Banks, who hit seven shots Paterno hit from 15 feet to givethird consecutive year that AWT 
while Lisch scored A WT an 11-10 lead at the half. -~ Banks opened the scoring in the second half to give A WT a 12-10 advantage, but the TILCS answer­ed with buckets by Montana and Batton. AWT stretched to a 16-14 lead, but TILCS rebounded once again with scores by Batton and Monta­na. However, minutes later, Lisch connected from the top of the key to give AWT a 20-18 edge and a supposed victory in the contest. Once again, Montana and Batton I brought TILCS back into the gameI with consecutive outside shots. 
Dave Batton, scoring here against Dough Buth, had ten pointsI Lisch hit again for A WT, but on the afternoon and was named the tournament M.V.P. [PhotoI Batton and Tom Kirby struck with by Leo Hansen.] · 
back to back free throws to give the I-TILCS a 22-21 margin, their first throuws for A WT, while Doug Buth MVP. This is the first time that lead since the first half. scored four buckets. this distinction has been awarded 
AWT failed to connect on what Toby Knight led Ebony Magic to the same player twice. was to be their last scoring attempt with six markers and Luther Brad-Tom Sudkamp was named Mr. as Dubenetzky hit on a tum-around ley hit on five of tern for the losers. Bookstore for his contributions to jumper to end the contest 23-21. BOOKSTORE ITEMS: 
TILCS appeared in the finals via After scoring 11 points in the the 1977 tourney. Chris "Hawk" a 23-21 victory over the Chumps on semi-finals, Paterno could only Stevens captured the Dr. J Award, Saturday. Batton led the TILCS connect on seven of 21 in the defeating Duck Williams in a with seven points in ten attempts, championship clash. In three years dunk-off. while Montana added five buckets. of finals competition, while being The Best Team Name Award Bill Hanzlik and Tom Sudkamp guarded by Dubenetzky in every goes to Roman Pulanski's Babysit­
connected on seven and five bas­confrontation, Paterno has scored ting Service. Augie Jennewein kets respectively, to pace The only 14 of 51 field goal attempts. won the Hoosier A ward and Bill Chumps attack. The 1977 Bookstore Basketball Igoe ofGuys and Dolls received the 
A WT emerged from their battle Tounament marked the third con­Golden Hatchet Award. over Ebony Magic, 22-20, to make secutive year that Dubenetzky has The All-Devine team consists of their third run for the Bookstore played on the championship squad. Luther Bradley, Lisch, Montana, crown. Bill Paterno tallied on nine For the second straight year, Steve McDaniels, Dan Knott and
Women's sports finish 
of 18 attempts and hit two free Batton was named the tourney's Banks. 
busy An Tostal weekend 
Gridders finish final scrimmage
by Laurie Reising 

from Regina. N.D. was victorious,
Women's Sports Editor 13-6, Their points came all in the Orsini got his second touchdown of From the Blue 13 yardline he
by Tony Pace 
first half an junior Diane Halliwell Sports Writer the day on a five yard run and tightroped his way 31 yards up the It' was a busy An Tostal weekend made a run up the middle for 4 Reeve made his fifth and final extra left sideline before being knocked at Notre Dame and Notre Dame yards and the touchdown. Jane point to put the score at 35-7. out of bounds. Without catching his 
The Notre Dame football team Politiski scored the extra point on a held what should be their final
Women's sports were just as busy. Many of the players who had breath, the flashy freshman took The Women's Crew Team drop­started for the Whites were the ball on the next play and broke 
throw from Badin quarterback scrimmage before the Blue-Goldped their last home meet of the Judy Temple. It was Temple to switched to the Blue team later in it against the grain for a 56 yard
game this past Saturday in the 
year Saturday to powerful teams the game, while the White players
Politiski again for the second score touchdown j(lunt. Ferguson fin­of the game which put the Badin ished the day as the game's leading 
Stadium. The scrimmage was held
from Purdue and the University of were now member~ of the third and 
under normal game situations with squad ahead 13-0. With 30 seconds the exception that the Blue squad ballcarrier as he toted the pigskin
Chicago. The Irish finished third in fourth teams. Steve Dover. who the meet with Purdue capturing the left on the clock, SMC put them­did not kick-off. The Blue team, had run well for the White team IS times for a total of 182 yards.
first place honors, but the squad earlier, carried the ball eight times 
selves on the board with a 30 yard 100 of Ferguson's yards came on
comprised of mostly the first team
bounced back Sunday afternoon as on a twelve play drive for the
pass play. The second half saw his two touchdown runs. After strong defense on both sides as the The scrimmage was highly com­Reeve was perfect on the kick, the
players, won handily, 51-7.
they travelled up to East Lansing, Blues, that began on their own 18 Michigan to win in mixed boat yardline and ended with Willard
Badin bunch held tight to run out Blue squad was running away 28-7. 
petitive in its early stages. In fact,
competition. It was a well-rowed Browner diving over from the one.
the clock for a 13-6 win. the White team opened the scoring A Doug Becker interception early 
race as the Irish group got off to a On eight carries, Dover had a total
Sunday afternoon saw tlie third with what were to be their only in the fourth quarter set up the next strong start and won by open annual Jocks vs. Girls basketball points. After a Blue fumble, the of 55 yards and for the day he Blue score. With the ball on the 
water. Their next meet will be May game being played over in the Whites had the ball in Blue accumulated 110 on 17 carries White 30, Joe Montana guided the 7th at Madison Wisconsin where, bookstore courts. "Duck's and territory. A defensive holding call while playing for both teams. After Blue team to paydirt in three plays. Dice's Dolls', a team consisting of moved the ball near the Blue goal Kevin Muno directed the Blue
along with more than 40 other Browner's touchdown, Steve teams, they will be competing in Schmi'tz scored a two-point conver­
Bonita Bradshaw, Phyllis Wash­and starting White quarterback Joe offense to their final points of the 
the Midwest Sprints. sion on a reverse play. The score
ington, JJ DeFoor, Susie Augus­Montana rolled seven yards around day after the hard-hitting Blue 
Notre Dame's ·women's track was now 43-7 for the Blues.
tus, Sue Bunke), Pat Meyer, Mar­right end on the next play to give defense had recovered a White 
team shows improvement in every Early in the second quarter the
garet McMenamin, and Valda Sta­the Whites their only score. Tom fumble. Dover racked up the final 
meet and this weekend found them Blue team was on the offensive
ton and coached by Williams and Unis kicked the point to make the touchdown and extra point on short 
finishing 4th in the Marion College Martin, put up a stiff front to the lead 7-0. again. Lisch completed two passes runs. The ball just bounced Dover's Invitational. Competing against to tight end Ken MacAfee, who
Jocks squad of Batton, StevP-ns, After an exchange of punts, the way on the extra point play as he 
squads from Marion, St. Francis, was making his first appearance
Kuzmicz, Healy, Hanzlik and Wil­Blue started a drive from their own put the icing on a 51-7 Blue victory. 
Taylor, Manchester, and Running­liams. The "Dolls" outlasted a 47 yardline. Blue quarterback since being hurt i_n the April 2 Overall, the running attack ton Colleges, the nine tracksters scrimmage, to move the ball into
double overtime to come up at the Rusty Lisch, effectively using run­looked superb as the Blue team 
totalled up 61 points amidst the White terntory. A few plays later, 
end 53-52. The Jocks, hampered ning backs Steve Orsini and Terry amassed 401 yards behind their 
rain and 52 degree weather. running back Vagas Ferguson
by boxing gloves and ill-fitting Eurick, moved the team toward the offensive line. The passing game
I broke the first of his two long
Suzanna Behnke captured first sun-dresses, just couldn't put down goal without using a pass. Orsini was below par, however, as Rusty~ place in the 100 meter dash with the girls who had made it to scored the touchdown on a seven touchdown runs, breaking three Lisch completed only 5 of 17 passes
I her time of 12:9. Freshman Helen tackles en route to a 44 yard
Sunday's action by putting down 9 yard burst. Dave Reeve made the for a total of 49 yards, although the 
I 
touchdown. Reeve booted hisWeber also grabbed a first in the other teams in the Girl's section of conversion to knot the score at absence of Kris Haines probably
1500 meter run as she turned it on second placement to put the score
bookstore B-Ball. seven. hurt this phase of the game.
at 14-7.
in the third lap to win by 23 yards in Haines, who has a pulled ham­Though both teams moved thea time of 5:11. The team of The administrative staff of the 1977 Bookstore Tournament, string muscle, was replaced byball effectively for the rest of theRobillard, O'Haren, Behnke, and . assisted by the statistics compiled by every player throughout the Tom Domin, who moved over fromfirst half, neither was able to scoreMcKann combined for a second tournament, have announced the Bookstore All-star teams. 

his wingback slot. Versatile Daveand at intermission the Blues led,place finish in the 4 by 100 meter W aymer was the wingback. 
F'"ll'St Team Second Team Third Team 
14~7.
relays with thier time of 53:9. In Commenting on the scrimmage,Tom Sudcamp Mike Vanacker Bill Singer In the third stanza, Rob Bush,the 4 by 400 relays Notre Dame was coach Dan Dt ine said, "We wereChumps Average White Guys and Dolls who was now playing defensive end victorious as Behnke, McKann, not as shaq as we were lastJim Sholl Team for the Blue team, intercepted aWeber and O'Haren were clocked 

Dan Winder 

Saturday, but it was a learning at 4:19.9. The track team will be 
~crupes and the 

lratted pass on the White 30
Carl Reid Dynamo Hum 
scrimmage and I think we learnedPink Deeks Ebony Magic yardline. This drive took only fourfinishing off their seaxon this 
Mark Meyer 

quite a bit." Saturday at Fort Wayne where they 
plays and was culminated by LischDana Snoap. LAW Tim O'Neill 
Nutmeggers 

For the somewhat snakebitten will face St. Francis College. 
running the ball in from eight yards The Milk Duds Irish, there were no major injuries Tim Kardok 
Doug Rid_!le 

out. Reeve was good on his thirdTurning to football, the N.D.­
Nutmeggers Bill Gu?.ppone 
though Terry Eurick did bruise his 
Chumps 

extra point and the Blues led 21-7. 
S.M.C. interhall football cham­Dobie's Pinchers shoulder.

Richard Connor After a drive by the Whites waspionship was decided Saturday This week 1e team will haveMo Fandsome John Hahn Todd Sladek halted, speedster Ferguson contin­afternoon in Cartier field when 

three final days of preparation for Badin Hall clashed with the squad Five The Deadeyes The Deadeyes ued his outstanding performance. 
next Saturday's Blue-Gold clash. 

Bookstore basketball fans gleefully welcomed back Chris "Hawk" Stevens, who won the "Dr. J." dunking competition and added spice to the jocks vs. Girls game. [Photo by Leo Hansen.) 
----------------~------------------------------------------------~ 


