~ ~-----------,--,-.,-----...,..-~ 

The Observer 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. m4!ry's Vol. XI, No. 80 Tuesday, February 15, 1977 
lgnatow captures audience with reading of new poems 
David lgnatow was the featured speaker for the Sophomoreby Barb Langhenry person who, expecting to die, is feel insignificant," he said. 
literary Festival last night. [Photo by Kevin Walsh]Senior Staff Reporter told by a voice that he is instead "I am told I'm a city poet," he After the poem he commented, 1933. He is presently a teacher atbeing changed into a zebra. It announced at the beginning of a 
David lgnatow read several of his ends, "I will learn to love you as a city poem, "The Question." The "You can't make contact between Columbia University and a "Poet in poems to a responsive audience as zebra whom I did not love as a poem stated, "If I were to say the yourself past and present. It's not Residence" of New York College of possible." City University, New York. 
the Sophomore Literary Festival human being." people are bacteria. who will deny 
continued last night. His reading Ignatow stated that persons have it?" He also read selections from his He has received the Shelley book, Rescue the Dead. Ignatow Award and the Guggenheim
was followed by a musical present­to grapple with truths of them­"The Diner," a poem about a 
ation of three of his poems. selves. "We have to work with ended his presentations by reading 'Fellowship of 1965 for Rescue the
real experience of waiting in an 
the three poems that were music-Dead, Say Pardon, and Poems.
Sr. Helen Muha, soprano, sang them and through them,'' he said. empty roadside diner and not 
Ignatow's poems "Gulls," "The ally presented immediately follow-William Stafford is the next
"I offer you these as a testa­getting any service, was well 
Open Boat" and "A Relationship," ment,'' he said, referring to his received by the audience. He ing his recitation. speaker, who will read some of his Ignatow's first book, a collection writings tomorrow at 8 p.m. in the
accompanied by John Humphreys works as a testament of his stated that it was an extentialist 
on the piano. The music was poem. of short stories, was published in Library auditorium. 
grappling with self-truths. written by John Colligan, a senior He read several more poems Another poem he read "was music and anthropology major at from the new manuscript and written in protest to the way we Notre Dame. stated, "I won't read the whole structure our lives to a specific 
Gunmen slay four 
Ignatow began his presentation thing. I want you to buy the book.'' goal--like a horse with blinders." by reading selections from a manu­Ignatow explained that the "In a Dream" is a poem written script of new poems, which he said manuscript "performs at an arc, from the angle of an older man 

in 'execution' style killing 
will be coming out as a book in two starting a point zero and traveling looking back to when he was 18 HOLLANDSBURG, Ind. AP-Four width trailer. 
years. up." years old. Ignatow prefaced the brothers aged 14 to 22 were killed "They took money from one ofThe first poem, "An Invented "The first section tries to involve reading by noting how people look by shotgun blasts to the head in the boys and money from Mrs.
Dream," was classified by Ignatow itself in existentialism and a sense back and say they wish things could "execution" style yesterday after Spencer's purse," Thrasher said. 
as a prose poem. It concerns a of insignificance that "makes us have been different. 
being ordered to lie down on the "Then they went down the line, 4 floor of their family's mobile home. firing the shotgun into the back of 
Their mother was wounded, but each victim's head.'' escaped by pretending to be dead Mrs. Spencer. 43, was wounded after shots ripped through her wig, in the back, head and shoulder but police said. was listed in satisfactory condition 
State police described the mur­in a Terre Haute hospital. Police ders as an "execution-type slay­were unable to question her at ing.'' Their only clue to a motive length because she was in shock. was a $30 robbery. The trailer was ransacked. the 
"Killing four people over $30 telephone lines were cut and the doesn't make a whole lot of sense,'' victims' wallets taken. said Sgt. Don Aldrich, spokesman Detectives said none of the for Indiana State Police. victims had been in any trouble and 
The victims were identified as none was known to be involved in Ralph Spencer. 14; Reeve B. drug traffic. Spencer. 16, Raymond M. Spencer, Aldrich said one shot blew Mrs. 17; and Gregory B. Brooks, 22. a Spencer's wig· off "and they the step-brother. , assailants apparently thought they 
The mobile home was situated in had blown her head off. She just an isolated. woody knoll in the hills laid there and pretended to play of western Indiana. dead until they left.'' 
The mother, Mrs. Betty Spencer, The woman then walked a quart­told investigators that four young er mile to the nearest neighbor and men, believed to be in their early called police. 20s invaded the trailer shortly after The assailants fled in Raymond her husband Keith, left about Spencer's car. which was found midnight to drive the 45 miles to about six hours later abandoned on his job in Indianapolis. a rural road seven miles away. 
Two men came through the Police said they assumed there was unlocked front door and two broke a second car. but had no descrip­through the rear door. according to tion of it. State Police Detective Barney Two persons in another car Thrasher. All carried shotguns, he matching the description of the said. auto used by the ass'lilants were 
The four brothers and the mother taken into custody for questioning were ordered to lie face down on but released shortly after noon the living room floor of the double-yesterday. 

SMC Sophmore weekend slated for April Fools Day 
a cash bar will also be available. 
Saint Mary's sophomore par­Saturday afternoon, from I :30 to ents' weekend is scheduled for 2:30, an academ.c open house will April 1, 2 and 3. Sophomore class 4ive parents an opportunity to meet vice-president Lisa Turco is chair· vith faculty of the various depart­man of the event, with Mary Jo ments. Later that afternoon, a Ptacin and Rosemary Hammer wine and c:1eese party will be held serving as co-chairmen. . in Regina North followed by the 
Turco explained the cost and banquet in the dining room. schedule of the weekend's activit­The sophomore class will provide ies. "The cost of the weekend entertainment for their parents in a package is $30.00. This price variety show at 8 p.m. Saturday includes both parents and daughter night in the little theater. Turco and it covers all the planned added, "The music department is activities." putting on an opera the same night. 
The weekend will begin Friday so any parents not wishing to afternoon with parents registering attend the varictv show will have at Holy Cross Hall. Friday night. a an alternative." · sophomore parents' formal will be The weekend's events will wind held i11 the Councourse of the Notrl' up on Sunday morning. A mass at Dame A.C.C. from 4:00 to 1 p.m. K: IS a.m. in the Church of Lorl'ttn 
With winter on the way out the t:ampus has The hand . .Jim .l11dge and the .Jun-. i~ planned for the sophonHln'• ;~nd become one large puddle. Maybe soon canoes will pm,:ide th~·.L'Iltl'rtainment and their parents. 


---------------------------~----------------~----­
fh-observer Tuesday, February 15, 1977 


---News Briefs---. 
b:===============Nat!onal 
·vance seeks Mid-East peace 
WASIDNGTON [AP] -Secretary of State Cyrus Vance intends to probe for a lessening of Palestinian hostility toward Israel on his six-nation trip to the Middle East, U.S. officials said. · 
Reporters were told the administration has no blueprint for the Middle East and has not concluded that a Palestinian "mini-state" should be created on Israel's border. 

Kiritsis bond increased 
INDIANAPOLIS [AP] -Bond for Anthony G. Kiritsis was raised to $l.S million yesterday as prosecutors filed new criminal charges stemming from the three-day abduction of a real estate executive and asked that Kiritsis undergo psychiatric examination. Marion County Prosecutor James F. Kelley said the higher bond was prompted by fears that Kiritsis would get out of jail and seek vengeance against authorities who 
reneged on their promise of immunity last week. 

.__Q, CampUS Today--., 
.#' 
11 am 3 to 5 pm 
3:30 
pm 

3:30 
pm 4:30pm 


6 to midnight 7 pm 
7 pm 
7 30 pm 7:30pm 
7:30pm 8 pm 
8 pm 

9 to 11 pm slf workshop in o'shag art gallery. 
job search, mary Iaverty, exec. board room, smc. 
slf workshop, grace pit. 
computer course, "ibm job control language", room 115, math bldg. 
seminar1 "crossing over and nondisjunction in ustilago violacea using brandspore colony analysis" by dr. edward d. garber, univ. of chicago, sponsored by the biology dept., galvin aud. 
mardi gras, stepan center. 
lecture, "christian principles of inter-relating" by fr. bill toohey, room 110 o'shag. 
debate, "capital punishment", with dean roemer, prof. vasoli and the prosecuting attorney of st. joseph's county and his assistant participating, howard hall chapel. 
meeting, faculty senate, room 202, cce. 
presentation and demonstration, "teasing the palate · a gourmet evening with monique", sponsored by south bend alumnae of smc, mccandless hall lounge, $3 donation at door. 
meeting, charismatic prayer meeting, log cabin chapel. 
sophomore literary festival, william stafford, winner of national book award for poetry, professor of ~lish at lewis and clark univ., oregon, library aud. 
black cultural arts festival, carleen polite, romantic novelist and writer of social commentary, washing­ton hall. 
concert, terry donahue, nazz. 
N. ht Ed't P 1s h
•g 1 or: au c app1er Asst. Night Editor: Steve Odland ­Layout Staff: Cathy Kustner, 
Cindy McKie!, Steve Kendra, Stan Kudlacz Sports Layout: PS and Har­
~~~~sts: Kitty Conklin, Mel Celeste, Martha Fanning, Stephanie Urillo Night Controller: Donald Roos Copy Reader: Patrick Cole """­

* ~
* 
* """­~ 
"""-' 'H 
* ~ 
*
* 
~ 




Blackouts possible in California 
SANFRANCISCO AP -Northern Californians, already dry from two years of drought, now face the possibility of power blackouts this summer because of reduced hydro­electric power, prompting a state energy official's call for a "shotgun wedding" of major utilities. 
The critically low level of reser­voirs -as low as one quarter of capacity -and a snowpack in the Sierras as much as SO inches below normal mean less water will be available to power hydro-electric 
turbine;, utility officials noted yesterday. 
Robert Ham, emergency plann­ing director for ,the California Energy Commission, said hydro -electric generation in Northern California's 64 plants, normally producing 2S billion kilowatt hours a year, is rapidly dwindling. 
For example, Ham said, Pacific Gas & Electric Co.'s plants turned out 14 billion kilowatt hours in 197S, when snow runoff from the Sierra was good and reservoirs were full. 
Last year, the total plunged to 8 billion kilowatt hours and Ham predicted 4.8 kilowatt hours of less this year. A 100-watt bulb burning for 10 hours equals one kilowatt hour. 
PG&E serves three million cus­tomers in Northern California 
"We're hoping to bring about a shotgun wedding of all the major public utilities in the state to coordinate distribution of what 

B I ood stati0 n reopen8 
The Red cross blood drawing station in the Notre Dame Infirm­ary is being reopened February 22 as part of a campaign to avert a serious blood shortage in St. Jo­seph County. Sign-ups will take place Tues­day, Feb. 1S, and Wednesday,· Feb. 16 in Breen-phillips and Howard, the two halls who have volunteered to provide initial do­nors. The organization of student volunteer donors will proceed hall­by-hall under the overall supervi­sion of campus chapter of Alpha Phi Omega, a nationwide service fraternity. David K. Palmer, a sophomore who heads the campus group. said the Infirmary station will be staffed by Red Cross personnel from 9 to 11:1S a.m. and 1 to 3 p.m. Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Thursdays while school is in ses­sion. "The Infirmary station makes it much more convenient for stu­dents. who previously had to go 
downtown to donate blood,'' Pal­
mer ststed. "The gift of blood can only be made from one human being to another." he commented. "and all blood is now donated on a 
volunteer basis. No blood is pur­chased anymore." Students who give blood can 
obtain coverage for themselves and their families. no matter where the latter live, should any of them need blood . for any reason, Palmer 
ance," he adde , "ts a vat 1 a e to all members of a residence hall should one -fourth of the members 
of that hall donate:· 
pointed out. "dThis. bloo~ bin1sur­
A campaign to double the 7,SOO donors now on the lists of South Bend's Central Blood Bank w~s 
t. 

opened with a press conference m • 
South Bend Monday, Feb. 14. 
*The Observer */*******,**~***~~***1ft ·~..........••••••••..•
*
St. Marys Soczal Commzsswn . presents: 
F d s k
re eric toras a 
s


OW to ay No to a Rapist 
"""­
~ 
"""­
~
* """-
IJ 

* ~ 


~ 
~
"""­
~ 
~ 
"""­
"""-•~ 
~ 

.Ve ""'-.
And SUrvt ',~ 
Spokesmen reported that the coun­ty's four hospitals used more than 11,000 units of blood last year and that the need will soon approach 1S,OOO units annually, primarily because of increased open heart surgery and kidney dialysis treat­ment. 
The area's blood needs have been met only by calling back donors to give more than once a year. While donors can give as many as five times in a 12-month period without affecting their health, a spokesman said, a sound blood supply system depends on h<Jving enough volunteers so that each has to donate only once a year. Fifty donors a day are needed to meet the county's blood needs. 
··Students often ask what con­cretely they can do to benefit another human being." Palmer commented. "Giving blood is a unique act of generosity --and one which does not depend on a• student's level of affluence." 

power there is," Ham said. 
The "shotgun wedding" would involve pooling the resources of competing companies to shift pow­er from a tuility with a surplus to one with a shortage. 
Ham said a cool summer and voluntary cutbacks by consumers would help avert the possibility of rolling blackouts, a system of shutting off power· in preselected areas for short periods of time. 
Power interruption would mean loss of air conditioning and other comforts to city dwellers and could be potentially disastrous to farmers in the San Joaquin Valley. 
Poultry farmers need electricity around the clock to ventilate chick­en barns and dairy farmers need power for milking and cooling machines. Crop farmers depend on electricity to run irrigation pumps. 
"Next to water rationing pro­grams are in effect in the San Francisco Bay area counties of Marin, Alameda and Contra Costa. Residents are being limited to as little as SO gallons a day a person . Other Californians are being urged to voluntarily conserve water. 
need resumes in a hurry? 

I 
insty-prints 
the wiz of the printing biz! 
rag bond 

25-8 1/2 X ll $2.55 203 N. Mam 
SoBend 289-697 
:.······................~­
• • • 
: 
i 
, : 


~~~~~~~~B~~Iif!IIII!JI!I!IIIIII 
10% Discount On All Merchandise To Notre Dame •
I 


& S · M 1 St d t
amf ary· S U en S. 
, __..___..;.,;,;,;;;_;..;..___, ~ 

Tht-Ob\erver 1\ pubh~ht-d Monday through Friday and weekly during the summer session, except during thP exam and vacation periods The Ob~erver is published by students of the University of Notre Dame and St Mary's College. Subscriptions 
may bP purcha~ed for $20 per year 

""'-.. """­
(S10 pPr ~eme~terJ trom Thf' oosf'r­

...-Carroll Hall-Madeleva ~ 
ver. Aox Q, Notre Dam!', Indiana 

""-. ~ 
46SS6 Sewnd clas~ po~tag~> paid. 



-r d . . ""'­
Notre Dame. Indiana 46SSb 

..... Free A miSSion ~ 
Th~> Oh~erver i~ a membPr of thl' 

.... • 
.l-~-~-~'t_,:_':_~:_·.d_,.:_~:_~-~~_.,_t_l_l_rt-·p_n_,,_lu-ct-•o_n...J ********************* 
.~ .... ·-·~ ... • • • •• • • ' •.• • t .• • ' 



~--~--~---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~---------------------------------------------------~ 
Tuesday, February 15, 1977 the observer 3 
----------------~~-=~~~~~----~
'Some need help' 





Athletes tutored outside of class 
by Thomas O'Neil Editor-in-Chief 

Last year. Notre Dame could boast of being the only major university whose students now playing professional football all received college degrees. 
Historically, Notre Dame is sur­passed only by the Air Force Academy in total number of NCAA scholars. But while both statistics 
*
Observer 
Insight I 

are major sources of pride for Notre Dame, the accomplishments are largely the result of a tutorial task force headed by fencing coach Michael DeCicco. 
DeCicco's tutors help nearly all varsity athletes with their studies. 

Sharpshooter commits suicide 
NEW ROCHELLE, N.Y. (AP) -A hulking Army-trained sharpshooter who killed five men in a warehouse, shot himself to death last night as law enforcement agents prepared to storm his stronghold. authorities said. 
Officials said they were working their way across the second floor of the two-story moving company warehouse shortly before 6 p.m. accompanied by an attack dog when they found the body of the gunman. 
He had held police at bay since yesterday morning. 
Fred Cowan, a 34-year-old suspended employee of a moving warehouse steeped in Adolf Hitler's Nazi philosophy and trained as a military sharpshooter had stormed into a warehouse with automatic rifle blazing yesterday morning, killing four other employ­ees and a policeman coming to their aid. 
Cowan was suspended from his job at the warehouse about two weeks ago for an undisclosed reason, and a spokesman said he was due to report back to work yesterday morning. Instead he came in firing. 
A number of warehouse employ­ees were trapped inside the build­ing at the start, and Mayor Vincent Rippa said then that some may have been held hostage. He said others who stayed inside when the shooting began may have been initially afraid to make a break. 
As the day wore on. however, some began trickling out alone or in pairs to safety behind the lines of the besieging law enforcement agents. Police were uncertain w:-hcther Cowan held hostages or anyone remained hiding ~~ the building out of his stght. 
·t was in the bathroos:n and I staved there !.-H· a while.·· s:tid Ro~nie Cohen. one worker. "Then I came out and he saw me_ And he Don't let yesterday's snowflakes deceive you. Spring is really 
on the way. 

r------------------­


Happy Valentines Day 
FROM 


"I'm not going to lie and say that these athletes are all bona fide academicians," he said. "Some of them need help." 
DeCicco estimated that 100 percent of freshman athletes and sixty to seventy percent of sopho­more athletes are presently being tutored. He said the percentage drops substantially among juniors and seniors. Many freshman athletes, he noted, are tutored by the Freshman Year Office which offers tutors to any freshman having difficulty with his studies. 
The tutors are paid by the university, DeCicco noted. He said the expense is justified by the time put in by the athletes participating in sports. He referred to the service as "corppensation." 
"Athletes sometimes miss class or even regular tutorials because of practice schedules or a game," he 
said get out of here ... Jfigured that was my passport out of here. So I just took off. He's a quiet guy who came to work every morning. But he was too quiet. You got to watch those guys. They can erupt like a volcano at any time." 
"This guy was pumping shots all over the place," said Sandy Gartt, working across the street from the Neptune Worldwide Moving Co., where the gunman holed up shortly after 8 a.m. 
The warehouse is on Wyman Street just off exit 7 of Interstate 95 and about two blocks from the New Rochelle railroad station where hundreds of commuters were boarding trains for New York at the time of the takeover. 
"We are trying to initiate negoti­ations with him," said Police Commissioner Willian Hagerty, as the siege wore on during a mild, sunny February day. 

noted. "I think we have the responsibility to make it up to them.'' 
Also part of DeCicco's responsi­bilities is keeping abreast of players' performances in the class­room. Several times during the semester he notifies professors of the athletes in their classes and requests information on them, including the athlete's probable grade and any comments on his progress. 
Asked whether he believes this intimidates professors into in­flating the players' probable grade, DeCicco responded negatively. Some professors get angry over the inquiries, he noted, but most professors are accomodating. 
DeCicco, also an assistant pro­fessor of aerospace and mechanical engineering, began overseeing athletic tutoring twelve years ago 
"We have tried telephone com­munications. We have tried speak­ing through air conditioning con duits. We have tried direct personal communications,'' Hagerty said of the efforts to talk to Cowan before he died. 
At one point early in the seige, Cowan shouted from inside the warehouse that he had "plenty of grenades and ohter guns to last me all day." 
Shortly after noon, Cowan tele­phoned and asked that some lunch be sent to him. The request was ignored. At another point, the mayor said, the gunman said he was sorry for the trouble he was causing. 
Cowan, a balding, body-building enthusiast, continued to fire spor­adically as the hours passed. But in midafternoon his gun suddenly fell silent. He was said to be using an M16 automatic rifle. 

winners or Austin Carrs, '' he said. "My job is to make them as proud . of their performance in the class­room as they are of their perform­ance in athletics. I think we've 
been pretty successful.'' 
Besides open tutorials offered for 
some math and science courses, 
freshmen are the only other 
students offered free tutoring by 
the university. Emil T. Hofman, 
dean of Freshman Year, explained 
that freshmen receive two kinds of 
help. One he referred to as "live" 
tutoring,, which he described as 
one-to-one or group instruction 
available only to students doing 
poorly in a particular subject area. 
He described the second type of 
tutorial assistance as "media" 
tutorials, which includes the use of 
audio-visual equipment for all 
students of a particular class. 
According to Julie Hotop, director 

Cometowherethe Krunch&! 
Shrimp <~~~~ Fi&sh Chicken -·-, , -. , -:.:')Chips 
Krunch-Pup>t)l.~t ;~
~~·Chowder FREE refills;,··~ 
on all _. ~.r._ DRINKS · ~ 
1733 N. Ironwood Drive 

~he observer Tuesday, February 15, 1977 
-----·--------------·----­
ND graduate 



commits suicide 
by Patrick Cole Senior Staff Reporter 
William Mark Kaiser. last year's president of Flanner and a 1976 graduate of the Uni­versity. died on Sunday. Feb. 6, from carbon monoxide inhala­
tions  from  an  automobile  in  
Cleveland.  His death  was  an  
apparent suicide.  

Also killed was his sister, Jeanie Kaiser, 16, a student a Magnificat High School in Cleveland. According to stories in the Cleveland Plain Dealer and Press, Kaiser was found three hours later after his sister Jeanie was found dead in the upstairs bedroom. The fumes from the car had seeped into the house. 
Police found Kaiser in the garage. He had apparently left the motors on of a Ford Pinto and a Lincoln Mark IV which had no gas left and dead batteries when police arrived. 
Mr. and Mrs. William Kaiser, his parents, returned home that Sunday night from a Florida vacation to find their son and daughter dead. 
Dr. Lester Addleson. Cuya­hoga County deputy coroner. listed the cause of death as carbon monoxide automobile inhalations. The death was ruled a suicide. 
Funeral services for Kiaiser were held on Wednesday. Feb. 
9. at St. Christopher's Church in Cleveland. ­
by Mark Perry 
Because of the merging of indus­trial corporations in the United States. collective bargaining is losing its impact. according to Charles Craypo. professor of econ­omics at Penn State University. 
Craypo, speaking at a lecture sponsored by the Notre Dame Economics Department at the Hayes-Healy Auditorium Monday afternoon, commented that many unions are losing their bargaining power due to the combination of several smaller companies into large parent corporations. 
The first large scale attempt at merger was by the Western Union telegraph company in 1851, who wanted to monopolize the tele­graph industry in order to make larger profits by offering inferior services and charging a higher rate. 
Before the monopoly was formed Craypo related, the telegrapher had a very secure job because he was so important to the .transmis­sion of the telegraph messages. Because there were so many tele­graph companies, the telegrapher could go anywhere to get a job. 
With the merging of the smaller companies to form Western Union. however. the wages of ther worker were cut. Many of the workers decided to strike but it had little effect because Western Union was 

Moot court to be featured 
by Bob Keen 
Tonight at 8 p.m. the Notre Dame Law School will sponsor a moot court at the Center for Continuing Education, featuring special guest, Supreme Court Justice Harry A. Blackmun. 
Blackmun will preside as the chief judge in this simulated Supreme Court case. "We have been very pleased with the number of invitations to come to Notre Dame which Supreme Court Justices have accepted," stated Law School Advisor Fernand Dutile. "The Supreme Court seems to have great respect for the Notre Dame Law School." 
Colorado Supreme Court Justice James R. Carrigan and Judge 
Kreskin listed in Student Union speaker list 
The Notre Dame Student Union Academic Commission has announ­ced its list of speakers for the second semester. 
But. according to Gerry Hoff­man. Student Union Academic Commissioner. several problems have arisen. 
Due to the present financial situ­ation of the Student Union. the budget for the Academic Commis­sion's projects this semester has been cut. Hoffman noted. 
"We began the year with over $1].000 dollars allocated to us," Hoffman stated. "This semester the figure we're working with is around $3,000." 
The Academic commission will sponsor the · • Amazing Kreskin" on Wednesdav. March 2 and a three day symposium entitled "Religion and Fantasy." focusing 


Unions are losing bargaining power 
Donal D. Alsop from the United States District Court in Minnesota will also judge this case. 
John Mazza from Bronxville. New York, is the student director of the moot court. The court case involves the constitutionality of a state law that regulates "tender offers." "This simulation comes directly from an actual Supreme Court case which has been making the rounds recently." Dutile stated. 
The moot court is an annual final competition involving the winners of an earlier preliminary simulated court contest. The four third-year law students who will argue this case are: Cec McGregor, Eldora, Ind.; Denise Smith, Knoxville, Tenn.; Mark Zalaoras, Wyoming, Mich.; and Tim Foley, Akron, Ohio. These four students are not new to this type of competition, having finished in the top ten while arguing this same case in Chicago last summer. 

able to hire retired or new tele­graphers at wages less than what they were offering the striking telegrapher. Because of the ab­sence of a strong union, the workers were forced to accept lower wages. 
Craypo noted three factors which were necessary for a union to be effective. First they must "elimin­ate rivalry among unions. secondly organize unions for the entire industry. and also centralize con­tracts enabling one group to repre­sent the whole union at 
bargaining table. Craypo then \Vent on to demon­
•Strate what happens when some of these conditions are not met and unions become ineffective because of corporate merger. 
His tirst example was the .steel 
companies of the early 1900's. 
Before the United States Steel 
Company's attempt at monopoliz­
ing the industry. the Amalgamated 
Association. a small labor union. 
had some control over several of 
the smaller steel companies. Cray­
po noted. 

When U.S. Steel joined these companies. the Association lost its bargaining power. Craypo said. 
They went to U.S. Steel. he continued. and asked them to recognize their union for the entire corporation but were refused. Thev attemptcds to strike. but wcr~ unsuccessful in their efforts to gain recognition. 
The Congress of lndustt'ial Or­ganization (CIO) was tinallv formed in an effort to unite the i~dustrial unions and was the tirst effective rc~ponse to corporate merger. Cr;t~'PO remarked. 
Today the industries are forming large conglomerates to make larger profits by eliminating some com­petition and acquiring companies to imiJroVl' present technology within the companv. Craypo commented. He u~cd the Litton conglomerate to illustrate how present industry ha~ shut out the unions. 
The Litton conglomerate was ti>rmed with four product group areas. one of these being business supplies. Craypo said. Royal ~:vpewritcrs was one of the compan­tcs controlled by this business 
group. ­Litton began to acquire several overseas companies to extend into all market areas. Included in these acquisitions was a German com­pany, bought in order to increase the technology of the conglomerate Craypo stated. In the United .States. Royal had two plants with two separate 
March 12-19; includes air fare, 

N.D. economics professor Charles Cropo delivered an excellent 
talk on labor unions in the U.S. unions. Rather than attempt collec­tive bargaining with these two • unions. Craypo said. Litton closed the plants and shifted their man­u factll ring to England. where wages were lower. The two unions charged that Royal had violated the labor laws. he continued. but by the time the courts had traced the Royal type­writer company to the Litton Con­glomerate. collective bargaining "a's impossible. "There arc serious tlaws -in institutionalized collec.tive bargain­ing." Craypo concluded. "When faced with the change. they. are not adaptable ... Until the unions are able to prevent this type of conglomeration Craypo stated. they will be unable to have any effective collective bargaining. 
[Photo by Kevin Walsh] 

Special Mon.& Tues. Taco Dinner 1.60 
d$~~;~~



/;7,~ ..~ ..--,~'.
IlL' L ) '¢\ 
f%~rro t.ufs..;,)

\·~ RESTAURANT 
,,~ ~ 
\J /'_" ----) ;l: 
"~')~~ ~ 
~ 
11 a.m. to 11 p.m. 
233-0385 526 Western Ave. 
South Bend 

COLLEGE GRADUATES 
. . 
DON'T TAKE CHANCES WITH YOUR PARALEGAL CAREER­NOT ALL LAWYER'S ASSISTANT PROGRAMS ARE THE SAME 
A Roosevelt University Lawyer's Assistant rep­resents the mark of quality and acc·eptance in today's legal community. 
If you are a college graduate and qualify, why not give yourself an advantage by attending Roosevelt Univer­sity's Lawyer's Assistant Program which is fully ac­credited by the American Bar Association. 
Since the Fall of 1974, 525 graduates representing over 1.60 colleges and universities have chosen Roose­velt's Lawyer's Assistant Program for their career training. 
Specialize in: Corporations -Estates, Trusts and Wills -Litigation -Real Estate and Mortgages -or be­come a Generalist*. 
Over 225 law firms, banks, corporations and govern: mental agencies throughout the United States have hired Roosevelt-graduates. 
SESSIONS 
D Summer bay/June 13-September 2, 1977 D Fall Day/September 26-December 16, 1977 D Fall Evening/September 13, 1977-March 4, 1978 
*evening program only. 

----------SEND TODAY ----------· 
on the works of authors CS. Lewis. 
Lawyer's Assistant ProgramJ.R.R. Tolkien and Dorothy Sayers. Hotel,all taxes, tips, and 

ROOSEVELT UNIVERSITY (312) 341-3882 
In addition, the commission has invited Congresswoman Barbara 430 South Michigan Avenue -~ 
Chicago, Illinois 60605Jordan of Texas and Congressman gratuities for eight glorious days.

Thoma~ Dellums of California to Please send me information on Roosevelt's Paralegal Program. the campus to speak. 0 Spring Day Program 0 Summer Day Program 0 Spring Evening Program
Hoffman stated "A lot of people 




For more information 
Name____________

did a lot of work. scheduling and coordinating campus speaking e­Address,________________ _ _ ______ -------·­vents which app.:al to a variety or 
City____________ state _ Zip

or application contact 284-4198
student interests. We'll just have 

Roosevelt University admits students on the basis of lndi­to tighten our belts and ad vidual merit and Without regard to race, color, creed. or sex.
__________________________j

acwrdingly. · · or call COLLECT (312 782-1884 

Tuesday, February 15, 1977 
the observer
--'------­



Professors note changes in student attitudes 
by Jim Hershey "It was VietNam that made it all didn't have one friend in college ended, the uprisings ended. Norl­taking up every 'left' cause. Today go sour. along with the political who was concerned about how he ing also said that most students it does not have a polemic tone. In recent interviews. three pro­assassinations.·· Arnold remarked. was going to make a living. The were not takt:n up with the contro­Seven or eight years ago it carried 
fessors of Notre Dame's College of "What was a multi-issue optimism reason is that my gen~ration repre­·:ersial issues but that a small flaming editorials agianst anyoneArts and Letters expressed their became a single-issue pessimism." sents a generation of incredible minority stirred the trouble. in power.''personal observations of change in he added. affluence. The American economy ·'If you don't prefer to go into the Dr. Walter Nicgorski of the 
the political attitudes of students in He said that the fact that things 
seemed to be in continuous army.. you· d rather think that General Program of Liberal Studies the last decade. did not change convinced students growth. •• you're a great idealist. I don't think agreed that students are not less Dr. Peri Arnold. assistant Pro­that things would not change. He Students at Notre Dame are not that students are less idealistic now idealistic now than they were in the fessor in the department of gov­summarized his idea of the general crass. he said. they just are not than they were in the 60's. They 60's. He said, "I don't think that 
ernment and international studies, attitude of today's students toward certain about getting jobs. Conse­just aren't as vocal." He consider­we should say that because there said that his statements were very politics and change: "It might not quently they are now more inter­ed the activity of the 60's to be 
isn't turmoil. students aren't inter­
subjective because he studied at a be the best of all possible worlds. ested in careers than in politics. caused by emotionalism rather ested in. politics. Students aren't different school and was a student, but it's the one we've got." than bv ideals.
··People at Notre Dame are interested in the same way. Theynot a teacher in the 60's. He Henotedthis attitude was reflect­
interested in going to law school Norling also made an observa­are a little bit more respectful ofgraduated from Roosevelt Univer­ed in the widespread interest in and then running for office. In 20 tion about the Observer: "The the traditional ways of handling
sity in Chicago in 1964. 
world hunger. Referring in partic­years the Congress will be filled Observer in those days used to be problems."
In describing Roosevelt, he said, ular to rice dinners, he remarked, with 535 Notre Dame graduates.""We didn't have fraternities there. "this attitude says. 'if you do small Referring to Watergate, he said We had political clubs. We gather­charities, you will make the system that students see that "Watergateed in coffee shops every day to better.' " He described this atti­is bad people." He also said that fight over ideologies •' tude as a benign one. students do not see it as a 
Arnold continued, "The atmo­He stated. ·'Clearly there is no fundamental flaw in the system.sphere ofthe 60's was not riots and politics in the air. The students are They perceive that the solution is to sit-ins. It was just more political." in no sense theoreticians. as they choose better candidates. 
He explained that the spirit of were in the 60's. I am not saying. Dr. Bernard Norling. assistant the early 60's was ver:y optimistic. however. that this is either good or chairman of the History Depart­The civil rights movement was at bad.'' ment. that as
thinks students a the heart of this optimism. Stu­Arnold added that students of whole have not changed in a long
dents and other leaders realized the 60's took a critical stance. time. 
that they could change society with whereas the students of the 70's He noted that the uprisings of their bodies (i.e.. sit-ins and de­take an accepting stance. the 60's began when the draft monstrations). And the civil rights He agreed that students are brought more people into the war movement was not violent. more concerned about jobs now. "I in Viet Nam. When the draft 
State Department criticizes Israeli oil exploration in Gulf 
WASHINGTON .f\_P -The State Vance is scheduled to arrive ii11~ Liberatwn Organization in Department criticized Isreal's oil Tuesday in Israel on the first stop negotiations. So far. they have exploration in the Gulf of Suez of a "fact-finding" mission intend­refused to bargain with the PLO. yesterday. saying it was both ed to measure prospects for recon­State Department officials take 
illegal and "not helpful" to a vening the Geneva peace confer­the view that Israel's drilling is a settlement with the Arabe. ence. He also plans to visit Egypt. violation of a 1907 Hague eom·en­
Frederick Bn,/on. a department Lebanon, Jordan, Saudi Arabia and tion on rights of an occupying spokesman, said Secretary Cyrus Syria. ·power. According to this view. Vance will discuss the matter with One of his overriding objectives occupation forces may tap existing Isreali and Egyptian officials dur­is to find out if Israeli leaders will resources but are barred from 
ing his one-week Middle East trip accept participation by the Pales-developing new ones. this week. 
''Our legal view is that Israel as an occupying power does not have a right to exploit natural resources 
Congress candidates that were not being exploited when the occupation began," Brown said. 
The Israelis have taken over the east side of the gulf, which lies between Egypt and the occupied Sinai. Geologists say the drilling 





~~~~:.~:~::! 2mt,2n~u~Tei~·in~~t;haef:l:~°~e-liebc~tul.onnd~.t~n~oenss I
18
million to candidates for Congresscould lead to a new oil discovery. 

last year, almost double their major.steps are taken in CongressBrown. responding to questions donations in 1974. Common Cause to reduce the role and the influence at a briefing, said, "Israeli devel­said yesterday. of special interest money ... 
opment is not helpful to get peace Henry Chapin will perform in concert at the Morris Civic this 
The biggest single source of Following the AMA groups in
negotiations under way." weekend. 
special-interest gifts was the poli-individual categories were theIsrael has refused to recognize tical committees of the American dairy industry groups, which pro­old U.S. leases granted by Egypt. 
Medical Association. with contribu-vided $1.4 million. The AFL-CIOAn Israeli flotilla forced-an Ameri­
Chapin slated to perform
tions totaling $1.8 million. political committees gave approxi­can drilling rig out of the area last House Minority Leader John mately $1 million. Committees ofSeptember. The American rig tried Rhodes, R-Ariz.. led all House maritime-related unions gave Singer. song-writer and story­Joint (Niles) and Fanta-C Records to drill on a lease secured in 1964 (Benton H&rbor). 
candidates in donations from $980.000. teller Harry Chapin is scheduled to
by a petroleum company owned by appear in concert this Saturday, The River City ticket outlets also special-interest groups. receiving Common Cause broke the special Egypt's government oil firm and a more than $99,000 from business. interest donations into two cate-Feb. 19 at 7:00p.m. at Morris Civic have tickets for the following
subsidiary of Standard Oil Co. of shows on Black
professional and agricultural gories--those from labor groups Auditorium. according to Peter upcoming sale:Indiana. 
groups. and those brom business, profess-Kernan of the River City Review. Sabbath, Feb. IS, Ft. Wayne Former Sen. Vance Hartke. ional and agriculture groups. It Reserved seat tickets for the Coliseum; z;z Top, Feb. 22, Ft.Help needed D-Ind .. got the most special in-ranked recipients in each group but Harry Chapin show are $7.00 and Wayne Coliseum; Bruce Spring­
$6.00 and are available at the steen. Feb. 23. Auditorium Theatre 
terest funds of Senate candidates, did not combine the categories for receiving $245,000 from the an overall ranking. Hartke. how­Morris Civic box office and the (Chicago); Boston. Feb. 27. Ft.
in assisting 

groups. including $143,000 from ever. appeared high on both lists following River City ticket outlets: Wavne Coliseum: Boston. Feb. 28 .. labor organizations in a losing race and Rhodes was far in front on the Just for the Record (100 Center). Not~e Dame A.C.C.. and Garv the handicapped for re-election. bu~iness. professional and agricui-Boogie Records (Mishawaka). Sus­Wright/Manfred Mann. March Ii. 
nended Chord (Elkhart). Record Ft. Wayne Coliseum.
The list of special interest spend-tural list. 
Volunteer Services recently an­in_g in the 1976 special elections 
nounced several opportunities re­was based ·on reports tiled with the 
quiring volunteers from the college Federal Election Commission. 
communitv. Total gifts from all reporting 
One maie volunteer i:. nePoed to interest groups reached 
feed and care for a physically $22,571.912. compared with~ 
handicapped boy from 12:30-I :30 $12.525.586 in the 1974 congress­
p.m.. Wednesday through Friday. ional elections. said Common Another volunteer is needed to Cause. which bills itself as a work as a housekeeper for an citizen· s lobby. elderly woman once a week. Last year's total!. included $11.5 
Volunteers are also needed to million from business. professional tutor a 12 year old boy iri reading and agricultural sources and $8.2 and a 16 year old girl in all her million from labor groups. studies. Anyone interested in these "The most dramatic increases positions can obtain further infor-' were in contributions by corporate mation by calling 7308. ·and business trade association 
Volunteer services is also offer­political committees.'· Common ing a salaried position t<> a married Cause said. "In 1976 they contri­couple. The c'ouple would work as buted over $7.1 million to congress­houscparcnts for seven mentally ional candidates. almost 300 per­retarded males from 3 to II p.m. cent more than the $2.5 million Monday through Friday at Crest­they contributed in 1974... wood Garden apartments. The Labor donations incrP~sed some '>tarting '>alary is $9,560. $2 million over 1974. 
• For more information. contact "Special interest political giving .Jerry Oberly. rc..,idcntial '>crviLT.., !'or congrc~sional candidatt:s was cooldinator, at the ( otiiKil for the Inilv a growth indu'>try in llJ7n." l(ctardcd. 12.1"> North Lddv or call ,.,aid ( IIJillllon Cau-.c viet: president
2il'I-4K11 _ . 
Frt:d WL-rthcimt:r. who directed the 



r-­

Tuesday, February 15, 1977 

, 
I I 
I 


I Cheap equipment causes CB interference
I 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Does your TV talk CB? Or your radio? Or your stereo set? Or even your electric organ? 
Since the proliferation of Citizens Band radios, thousands of TV viewers and other home electronics owners have complained about CB interference. 
If you are.one ofthem, don't rush out and punch your CBing neighbor in the mouth for interrupting your favorite program. Consider first what's at fault. 
It may be your neighbor, particu­
larly  if  his  radio  is  improperly  
tuned  or  if  he's  running  illegal  
equipment.  

But more often, it's your own TV or radio that's at fault, particularly if the manufacturer cut some corners to make its equipment less expensive. 
Said Sen. Barry Goldwater, R-Ariz., last year in introducing a bill designed to reduce interfer­ence: 
'Most consumers do not under­stand that when they may encount­er interference with their home ·television or radio set after an amateur or Citizens Band radio 
operator  moves  next  door,  the  
source  is  not  a  defect  in  the  
equipment of their neighbor,  but  

with their own radio or television receiver. " Just what causes television inter­ference, or TVI as it usually is 


Malone quits dean's duties to teach marketing 
Dr. John R. Malone, associate marketing and former acting dean dean of the College of Business of Business Administration, be­
Administration at Notre Dame and comes associate dean for faculty founding director of its M.B.A. development and curriculum, while program, will leave his administra­Vincent Raymond, associate dean tive positions to return to teaching of the College since 1973, continues 
as a professor of marketing, it was in that position with responsibilityannounced today. for student personnel and adminis­In a realignment of duties within trative services. The present post 
the administration of the College, of assistant dean is being discontin­Dr. Yusaka Furuhashi, professor of ued. 
US and Mexico negotiate 

to strengthen relations 
WASHINGTON AP -President eliminated. slong with the tunes. 

Carter vowed 10 strengthen U.S. Also abolished was the traditional 
relations with Mexico vesterday as march by the red-coated Marine 
he welcomed Mexica"n President Band and a display of state and 

Jose Lopez Portillo. the first for­territoria! flags. 
eign head of state to visit the White The ceremeny. however, includ­
House since Carter assumed the ed a 21-gun salute, the playing of 

presidency. the national anthems of the United 
"Our problems are mutual. Our States and Mexico, a review of 

future must be shared," Carter troops and welcoming speeches. 
said during ceremonies on the Carter thanked Lopez Portillo for 
White House lawn. "an almost unprecedented demon­
''I will go even further th-an is stration of concern" by offering to required through diplomatic cour­export additional oil and natural tesy. . . to tie our countries gas to help the United States together in an unprecedented and during the recent energy crisis. continual demonstration of com­The President also noted that for mon purpose, common hope, com­the first time in more than 25 years mon confidence and common friend both the United States and Mexico ship, Carter said. elected new presidents at the same 
time.
Lopez Portillo. who promised "I believe it gives us a unique"good faith and good will," told opportunity for the close personalthe chief executive that "I'm friendship to show that there arecertain we can solve our problems new ways to deal ·with old pro­and consolidate our friendship.'' 

blems.·' he !>aid.
The welcoming ceremony was Carter said he scaled down themarked by the elimination of a few welcoming ceremony because hefrills that normally accompany the dtd not want "to waste my time nrarrival of a foreign helld of state. 
thctr tiruc. I want to use ·my time 
The Army Herald Trumpeters. aud thi.'tni ro rlw maxinwn1advan­
who traditionallv play Hail tu the l'•gt· · 
Cl1ief on the l'r·~~•dcnt ·~ i!rrival ..111d 'I.. ;v. o president~ met 1n the' 
Ruffles and Ft.:.un<.h( ···hen ·C th ' Oft i,·e for mor,· than an hour 
visiting dignitan app<:.tr~. ''· cr·. ;Jth'. tht· ~.~<el<:uming 'n:r,·rnom. 

• ... _ ...... Jt' ...¥JI'Jilf .J/,"··· IJ/1.'"-f t6"#"4#._'"........ ~ ••••~ , ...~ ...... _ ..... _ .. _ ..................._... ~P_.•,, .._.__ , ....,.;.._......... • .-~ ... ..&O.o'M 0 --~.-.. -0"4 Jlo•,&r..r" ................ 0 • '0' •• •• O ~­
called'! A CB set transmits on frequen­cies ranging between 26.965 and 
27.405 megahertz MHz. while tele­vision signals range from 54 to 216 MHz. 
The interference is caused by the phenomenom called harmonics, which occurs when a frequency is increased by multiples of itself. 
So. if a CBer is transmitting· on Channel 11, or at 27.085 MHz, his set may be producing a harmonic at 
54.170 and another at 81.255 MHz. Those frequencies correspond to Channels 2 and 5 on your television 
set. Thus, the interference. The Federal Communications 
Commission advises those with TVI 
Talks suspended 
in Rockwell 
labl!)r strike 
DETROIT [AP] -Contract talks 
remained suspended in the 10-day 
old strike against Rockwell Inter­
national car and truck component 
plants in six states with no new 
bargaining sessions scheduled. 
The walkout by 6,000 United 
Auto Workers at 11 plants already 
has forced the shutdown of a truck 
plant and could trigger additional 
plant closings if a settlement is not 
reached soon, two of Detroit's 
automakers warned. 

Ford Motor Co. shut its medium 
and heavy-duty truck plant in 
Louisville, Ky .. last Thursday and 
said the facility would remain 
closed all this w'eek because of a 
shortage of hoods supplied by 
Rockwell. The shutdown has idled 
some 3,500 hourly Ford workers. 
Chrysler Corp., which purchases 
car seat recliner mechanisms and a 
variety of light-truck suspension 
parts from Rockwell, said the 
walkout eventually would disrupt 
production. 

Rockwell and the UAW have 
held no negotiations on a new three 
-year national contract since talks 
were broken off Feb. 6. However, 
bargaining on non-economic local 
issues not covered by the master 
agreement were continuing, a 
UAW spokesman said. 

Company and union spokesmen 
say the main issue in dispute is a 
union demand for additional paid 
days off -a key provision won in 
contracts with the Big Three car 
makers last fall. 

The UAW struck Rockwell 
plants in Ohio, Michigan. Wiscon­
sin. Illinois, Kentucky and Indiana 
on Feb. 5, after the old pact 
expired. 

In other labor developments 
yesterday. bargaining resumed in 
Milwaukee on a new contract 
covering 13,500 American Motors 
Corp. workers in the United States 
and Canada. 

The old agreement, which expir­
ed last Sept. 16, has been extended 
by the UAW, until II p.m. Tue!>­
day. Howe>.,~r. the union has not 
authorized a strike should bargain­
ers fail to settle on a new agree-'----------------------0~----k----' 
ment by then. ~ 
AMC. which lost $46 million last year and remains in a severe sales slump, has asked that the old accord be extended a full year until 





Editor-in-Chief 
this Sept. 16, a proposal rejected thus far by the union. 
Meanwhile, General Motors Corp. and Chrysler face strike deadlines within the next two weeks from UAW locals at seven key component plants over unre­solved local contracts. 
complaints that, if the neighbor's CB set is working properly, it is their own responsibility to instal' filtering equipment to block the unwanted CB signal. 
The Goldwater bill which would have required home electronics manufacturers to install interfer­ence blocking equipment in their products died in the last Congress. 
Some CBers, learning that their sets are generating harmonics and thus neighborhood havoc install what are called low-pass filters between their radios and antenna 

Rapists: take warning! 
Lucy McVay 
Thursday, Feb. 17, Frederic Storaska, founder of the National Organization for the prevention of Rape and Assault (NOPRA) will present a lecture on ''How to say no to a rapist -and survive" .. 
The program, at 8 p.m. in Carroll Hall, co-sponsored by the SMC Social Commission and Student Government. is open to the public free of charge. 
Mr. Storaska has lectured at over 500 colleges and universities across 

WED. FEB. 16th NOTRE DAME thru SUN. FEB. 20th A.C. C. 
WED. NIGHT SHOW '~ST WHEN vouTHOUGHT YOU. HAD suN na1l' 
._____'&E:!~r iiCJP-

~~ijASAtoTTo~~ 
Tickets on sale: 

7 PUBLIC 
NOTRE DAME A.C.C. 
BOX OFFICE

PERFORMANCES 
THURS. 8 P.M. 
Daily

FRI. 8 P.M. SAT. 12. 4. I P.M. 
9-5

SUIII. 2 and 6 P.M. 
I 

...............································---.... 
PHIL KEAGGY lauded by JIM I HENDRIX as one of the finest rwitarists in the world. · 
The 
PhiiKeaggy




Band . 
THUR. FEB. 17-7:30 PM MORRIS CIVIC AUD. $3.50 at the door. 
THIS MAY BE THE CONCERT YOU'VE BEEN WAITING FOR 

of the Observer 
Applications for the position will be accepted 
through Feb. 18 


Submit cover letter and resume to : TorrJ O'Neil P.O~ Box Q 
.. ·-~~--~-~---------......1 
'cables to block some of the inter­ference. And television and some radio owners can install high-pass 
filters  on  their  sets  to  eliminate  
most  if  not  all  of the  incoming  
harmonics.  

Both are available at local TV­radio shops for $10 or less, and some manufacturers will provide high-pass filters for their custom­ers at no cost upon request. 
But occasionally the filters do not do the job and the TV owner then must call a serviceman for more extensive -and expensive -work. 
the country. Storaska, in his lec­ture, stresses an understanding of the emotional background of the rape victim and assialant. He also explains, how a hostile reaction from the victim can jeopardise her life. 
Storaska spoke on rape preven­tion at the World Congress of Crime Prevention and was a con­sultant to the National Crime Prevention Institute. Storaska's book and flim are presently being used as a source of rape prevention education by the Defense Depart­ment. 
-~­

Tuesday, February 15, 1977 the observer 
7 




Cocaine penalties embroiled in U.S. courts 
A series of legal and legislative battles brewing here could spark national moves to limit criminal 
, penalties for cocaine, fast becom­mg the new "candy of the rich." In one corner are a group of attorneys and medical researchers who condemn the jail terms given possessors of a drug they don't consider dangerous. Pitted against them are law enforcement agencies who contend cocaine has harmful physical and psychological effects and must therefore be controlled. Both sides are expected to summon a number of witnesses-­doctors, scientists, historians and 
But within the past decade or so, according to drug enforcement officials, cocaine has surpassed marijuana as the favored drug of the white, upper-middle class--es­pecially young professionals. Co­caine offenses have doubled in the past 15 years, says the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA), even while its price has skyrocketed to $60-$110 a gram. 
Ironically, the debate here began last December when a district court judge--regarded as a hardliner on drugs--threw out Massachussetts' current cocaine law as too harsh. Cocaine, the judge said, had been misclassified as a narcotic and was 

law enforcement specialists--to tes-actually less dangerous than alco­tify on their behalf. hoi or nicotine. 
Meanwhile, encouraged by pros-In dismissing charges against a pects in Massachusetts, lawyers in 36-year-old black defendant, Judge California and Alaska are reported-Elwood McKenney also said the ly planning test cases to challenge state cocaine law "has led to their states' cocaine laws later this blatantly racist attacks on cocaine year. They would confirm no users.'' McKenney had allowed details, however. into evidence the testimony of five 
Cocaine--a white, crystallized expert defense witnesses, one of powder derived from South Ameri-whome charged that cocaine enfor­can coca leaves--is a central ner-cement has historically been aimed vous system stimulant. When at blacks. inhaled, it provides about an hour's McKenney's final ruling conclu­euphoric "higt:." Federally out-ded that the current cocaine law !awed since 1914, cocaine at the resulted from "generations of ig­turn of the century was still a norance and myth, all now dest­common ingredient in "nerve" royed by reliable scientific evi­tonics and even Coca-Cola. dence." He now routinely dismis-
Federallaw calls for up to a year ses cocaine cases brought before in prison for first-time possession his court. of cocaine; sale can bring up to 15 Proponents of cocaine decrimin­years. Each state also has criminal alization view McKenney's ruling penalties for cocaine possession as a major first step in paving the and sale, ranging from misdemean-way for milder cocaine penalties ors to felonies. across the country--much as similar 
Veteran's Administration seeking Gl refunds 
WASHINGTON [AP] -Ir a veteran going to school under the GI bill drops a course in midterm or completes a course that doesn't count toward graduation, he may find he has to refund money to the government under new rules now in effect. 
This will happen if those courses reduce the veteran's school hours below the level for which he is being paid by the Veterans Admin­istration--full-time, three-quarter time or half-time. He will have to make refunds back to the start of the school term. 
This is a change from the old rules under which payments con­tinued until the date the veteran dropped the courses or dropped out of school altogether. 
The Veterans Administration is laying down the rules under a law Congress passed last year to reduce overpayments to veterans who dropped out of school or cancelled courses without informing the VA. 
The overpayments have totaled more than $2 billion since 1971, of which $883 million was overpaid in the year ending July 1, 1976. 
But the VA says it has recovered about 70 percent and is still trying to collect $436 million. It has written off $155 million, either in compromises or as uncollectable. 
In recent months the recovery rate has risen to about 90 percent, a VA official said in an interview. adding that overpayments the past six months were $49 million less than in the same period a year ago. 
As for the new rule requiring retroactive refunds, Andrew Thornton, chief of VA educational benefits, said "it's too early to guess how many students will han to make refunds for the school term that ended recently,'' although some schools have expressed con­cern about the effect of veterans. 
The provision went into effect Dec. 1 so no refunds can be demanded retroactively for any payments made last term before that date. And the penalty does not apply when the situation was caused by circumstances beyond the veteran's control. 


Harsh winter conditions extends art exhibition 
Indiana's severe winter of 1976­77 is forcing an extension of a'Notre Dame exhibit of Indiana art. The show, "Mirages of Memory: 200 Years of Indiana Art," will be continued until March 20 to permit scores of youth and adult groups an opportunity to view the major display of paintings, sculptures, crafts, photographs and cartoons. 
Originally scheduled to close February 27, the show was extend­ed by gallery director Dean A. Porter at the request of many individuals and groups forced to cancel earlier visits. ''The exhibi­tion has become a cultural 'root' for so many," he said. "We may never again have the opportunity to examine our rich heritage in such depth." 
The exhibition of more than 200 works of art in air five of the gallery rooms is the largest undertaking of its type in the state. Masterpieces and historic objects have been assembled from more than 30 galleries or private collections in the dispaly sponsored by the Indiana Arts Commission and the National Endowment for the Arts in cooperation with the Notre Dame Gallery. 
Guided group tours may be arranged by contacting Marilyn Holscher of Gail Jones at 283-7361. The gallery in O'Shaughnessy Hall is open weekdays until 4:45 p.m., until S p.m. on weekends and from 7 to 9 p.m. on Thursday evenings. 
Anne Peeler, one of the principal researchers of the exhibit, will present a slide lecture, "Photo­graphy and the Frontier," for guests at the regular Thursday open house February 17. She will share with the audience many rare examples of Indiana phot.->graph:y discovered during her research.
.--------..
NEED LOW-COST 
I
I I
TRANSPORTATION?1We can help. Contact: 
I
I Auto Drlveaway Co. 674-9786 
1
I Deposit Required Returned at Destfnadon I
..I ______..I
--Must be 21.-· 

decisions did for marijuana in the early 1970's. 
And it's no coincidence, legal observers note, that the national push for decriminalization of co­caine is following--like marijuana-­its leap from the ghettoes into the upper classes. 
"White middle-class profession­als in three-piece suits have been coming up to me and saying they hope the laws are changed,'' said Jim Lawson, a boston attorney who helped prepare the case that led to McKenney's ruling. 
Flurry of Moves 

McKenney's decision has set off a series of moves and counter­moves in Massachusetts' official corridors. 
While the state Supreme Court declined to hear an appeal on the McKenney decision because of a legal technicality, it has announced it will hear arguments for and against the current state cocaine laws as soon as the next test case is tried and appealed. 
Defense lawyers say they plan to bring another test case soon. And next time, prosecutor Jim Hayes said, he will offer his own expert witnesses in rebuttal. 
Meanwhile, state Rep. Michael Flaherty has introduced a bill that would reclassify cocaine with mari­juana. While both marijuana and 
cocaine possessions are misde-.-------·COUPON------, 
meanors in Massachusetts, first-A • G --R 
ti~e convictio~s for marijuana _can 1 menca arne oom 1 
brmg at most s1x months probation­whilecocainecanbringuptoayear I Celebrates the Grand Opening of I 
in jail and a $1000 fine. Z I The victorious defense attorneys O have announced they will reassem-Q. Flanner's Food Sales with this coupon for I 
ble their panel of experts for the ;:::) 
Massachusetts House Judiciary 0 2 FREE games of Pinball I 
Committee hearings on the Flaher-U I 
ty Bill, scheduled for March. 1 
Flaherty, a South ~osto~ Demo-1 Tues feb. 15 ONLY 1 
crat who helped hberahze the • state's marijuana laws, will invite 1 Open 6pm -3am I 
the DEA's New England Regional 
NOTICES 

Grevhound Bus to Chicano leaves Main Circle every Friday at approx. 
5:45. Call Tom at 8338 tor seat reservations. 
NEED TYPING? Executary Inc. Professional Typing Service 85 cents a page 232-0898. 
Will teach you flute in your spare time. Call Beth 8112. 
The Neon Wilde Band: now available for parties, concerts, for­mals, etc. Call 7996 from 9-5 or 277-3.448 after 5. 
Papers professionally typed. Tele­
phone evenings 272-8308. 
USED BOOKS. Book Barn. 1 mile north of Notre Dame. 272-5520. 
Accurate, fast typing. Mrs. Donoho 232-07 46. Hours --B am to 8pm. 
Tickets for the Feb. 23 Bruce Springsteen and the E Street Band concert at the Auditorium Theatre in Chicago are now on sale at the River City ticket outlets: Just tor the Record (1 oo Center) and Boogie Records (College Square). 
Wanna run your own bar? Juniors, applications are now available for positions of Senior Bar Mananer at the Office ot Student Affairs (315 Admin. Bldg) or the Senior Bar. Deadline: Feb. 16. HURRY! 
FOR RENT 

4 bedrooms, living room, dining room, kitchen. Utilities paid. $100 per month. Call Oscar 233-1850. 
3 room furnished house within walking distance of campus. Rent and utilities. One-half block from Campeau St. Call 232-8563. 
Two bedroom house to rent. Summer and or school year. 1012 Eddy Street. $120 mo. plus utilities. Call Oddies Harris at 232-8563. 
Completely furnished houses ran· ging from two to seven bedrooms available tor summer or next sept-ember. Call 234-9364. Mrs. Humburger. 
LOST AND FOUND 

Found: Single key marked Taylor x-7. Found in SE cormer ot near D-2. Phqne 1251 -Chris. 
lost: One Hewlitt-Packard HP-21 calculator. Please return -no questions asked. Call Steve--1478 . 
Director Edward Cass and other law enfo.rcement officials to testify in opposition. 
The defense experts will contend as they did in McKenney's court­room, that cocaine arrests, trials and jail sentences waste the state's time and money. 
According to defense witness Richard Ashely, a New York writer­historian and author of books on heroin and cocaine, some police agencies spend up to SO percent of their drug enforcement time on cocaine-related cases. 
"Cocaine isn't a criminal prob­lem," noted defense witness Ron Siegel, professor of research phar­macology at UCLA ~'It's a public­health problem." 
Siegel and other defense medical experts contend cocaine is not an addictive narcotic like h eroin and causes no similar physical depen­dence or painful withdrawal symp­toms for the average user. 
And, Siegel said, "cocaine may have medical uses in the alleviation of depression and gastrointestinal problems and the facilitation of weight loss." 
Hayes, on the other hand, poin­ted out that according to the defense experts' own testimony, cocaine--taken regularly in extre­mely large doses--can cause anxiety, depression, paranoia and insomnia and can damage the nasal septum. 
Cass said his experts will testify that cocaine can be psychologically addictive even if it isn't a narcotic. Cass also links cocaine to the heroin trade. "On the intrastate level, our agents buy cocaine and heroin from the same people," he commented. 
But he acknowledges that the federal government is not likely to pursue small-time possession ca­ses. "We can't afford to deal at the street-corner level," he stated. 
SBP, SBVP 
nomination form now available 
Candidates for Student Body President, Student Body vice­President and Student Life Council Representative may pick up peti­tion for nomination forms at noon today in the Student Government offices. 
Petitions are due by 10 p.m. Tues.. Feb. 22. The primary election will be held Tues., March 1 with a run-off election, necessary on March. 3. 
All candidates for SBP must attend an important meeting to­night at 11 :30 p.m. in the Student Government offices. 
...------•COUPON•-----­
FOR SALE



Classified Ads 
Lost: Browniish Ektelon racquetball racquet at the ACC on either Wednesday or ThursdaY. If found please call Kevin at 1811. There is a reward. 
Found: Ladies watch found in Washington Hall on Saturday. Call 272-3207 after 4pm. 
Lost: Glasses -brown plastic frames and clear lenses -black vinyl case ­between ACC and Dillon. Mike 1725. 
WANTED 

Two girls need ride to FT. Lauder­dale for spring break. Call 4-4291 or 4-4378. 
Need ride to Cleveland any weekend Call Fran 6865. 
Need ride to St. Louis area tor M<;~rch break. Call Peggy 4-4381. 
Want SF B-ball tix. Top$$. John 277-4855. 
Wanted: House for next fait east of Juniper preferred. Chris 287-5175, · after five. 
Wanted: Run-12Xl4. Call 4-4122 Charyl. ­
Need 4 San Francisco tickets tor aspiring funeral director. Call Ray 1417. 
Need a ride to Ft. Lauderdale tor spring break. Will share driving and expenses. Call Pat 1514. 
Wanted: Rides to Ft. Lauderdale tor break. call Brian 1589 or 1516. 
Need ride to Columbus Feb. 25 (Friday). Call Tim. 
Wanted -GA and ·student San Francisco B-ball fix. Kevin 1816. 
_....,:_~--­

Need 2 GA tickets to San Francisco game. "Big Money Murf.''· anytime 234-8858. 
;-;;ct-;idet;-R.-~de~".;i;~er 
break --call 287-8386. · 
Two girls need ride· to Florida. Tampa -St. Pete area. Spring 
Break. Susan 4-5149. 
Universal custom Pillows looking tor sales person to work on a commission basis selling extra large custom throw pillows. For more details, call 233-6416 between 1-5 pm. 
AUDIO OUTLET -top name stereo equipment wholesale. Call 283-1181 
Student Business Opportunity-Ow­your own disco retail record sho~ sold complete... $6,000.00 or be­offer. Call 281-1512 or AC 312-528­4566 or AC 518·465-8256. 
For Sale: Akai 33rd Cassette Deck with Dolby. Will take best price. Call John Erickson 1188. 
PERSONALS 

Dear Julie, Slivers is waiting to card you. Happy 19th. Love, Herbie Flynn 
Alone anain? ND-SMC Hotline. 4-4311 open nights. 
Singles only. Write Box 723 Notre Dame. Enclose stamped envelope. 
Secret Caller: 
Just because I couldn't make it to the party at Crestwood Apartments doesn't mean we can't be phone phriends. 
1845. 
To the weekend resident of 903 Griesbeck: 
Thanks tor a wondert.ul time. Sorry about the overcrowded sleep­ing conditions. 
Bathroom Babe 
Tom, 

Dinner was terrific and so are you. 
Love, 
Jellybean 
KINAJODA: 
Kl-"Bob, Help!" 
NA -Watch that Bionic Liver JO -2 plus 2 equals 5 beers DA -English are snobs anyway. 
Excuse me, Mr. Nett -Was it you that put in that last personal? (I agree with "NA", though! 
Beth-

This is for the one that' I forgot to put in tor yesterday (extenuating circumstances -you understand). I LOVE YOU AGAIN!!!!! 
To Jane (from Harrisburg, PA. l 
Thanks for the date. I had a super time. You're a terrific dancer. Maybe someday I'll stop falling on you and we can go out again. 
___ Jim ___:_ ___
.:....__ ______ 
_ 

Hettie, thanks tor the Valentine. I hope you and your roommates finally got the roses. If not, you still have your very own personal. Thanks tor everything last weekend. 
Rhino 

-
......
~~~----~~------~~~~~------~~--------~-----------­

_Tuesday, February 15, 1977 



Notre Dame cagers trounce Butler 
by Tony Pace Sports Writer 

Ignited by a second half dunking exhibition, the Notre Dame basket­ball team extended its current winning streak to eight games as they buried Butler 97-74 last night at the ACC. 
The Irish got off to a slow start"in the contest, as the game was tied four times in the first four minutes of play. The early scoring load was carried by Toby Knight and Duck Williams, who combined for 15 of the first 17 points. 
Commenting on the slow ·start that the Irish had in this contest, forward Dave Batton said, ''Though you may not get up as quick for a game such as this, you eventually get into the flow of the game. Obviously it is much easier to be psyched for a UCLA or a 
South  Carolina  than  it  is  to  get  
psyched for Butler."  .  
Though  Knight  and  Williams  

had the two "hot hands" in the early going, Irish coach Digger Phelps continued his seven man rotation system regardless of the "hotter" players. 
Coach Phelps said, "Hot or cold we rotate seven men. We've done that for our last ten games and it has worked well. We don't ask our players to go the full forty min­utes." It did indeed work well against Butler as the Irish stretched an early three-point lead to eleven points midway through the first half. 
The player who was single­handedly keeping the Bulldogs in the game in the first half was John Dunn. The 6'3" forward parlayed tine shot selection and good marks­manship into 12 first-half points. 
Though the Irish out-rebounded Butler 26-8 and outshot them 59 to 44 percent, Notre Dame's halftime lead stood at only 43-31. Part of the reason that these large discrep­ancies in shooting and rebounding were not reflected in the score lies in the team turnover totals.. While Butler had only 5 first half turn­overs, Notre Dame meanwhile committed 12 turnovers in the first stanza. 
Though Butler stayed close during the early part of the second half, it was only a matter of time before the deeper, more physical 
%Observer 



Sports 

Irish fencers win five 
bv Paul Stevenson -Sports Writer 

The Irish fencers were victorious in five confrontations this past weekend. a feat which extends their winning streak to 59 matches. 
On Friday night, Northwestern University played host to the Irish. Notre Dame coasted to victory by a 23-4 margin. The Irish won sabre 9-0 and were successful in both foil and epee by a 7-2 edge. 
Saturday found the Irish chal­lenging the University of Chicago. 
Once  again,  Notre  Dame  won  
handily 21-6.  winning sabre  7-2,  
foil 9-0 and epee 5-4.  

The Irish then battled perhaps their most difficult opponent of the season. Notre Dame edged an excellent Wayne State team 15-12. 
The Irish fencers found them­selves trailing in the early going by a score of 10-7. Then Notre Dame decided to substitute. Freshman Tom Cullum was called upon to aid the Irish. The epee specialist responded by winning his two bouts, giving Notre Dame a 5-4 victory in epee. 
Another freshman. Andy Bonk fenced like a seasoned veteran. as he went 7-0 for the weekend in foil. 
The Notre Dame fencing team lost sabre 4-5. but were victorious in foil 6-3, giving them their 15-12 margin. 
Against Wayne State. both Pat Gerrard and Mike Sullivan dropped their first bouts of the season. Gerrard lost in foil to Carl Kluke while Sullivan fell to Urri Rabino­witz in sabre. Sullivan's record now stands at 31-1 while Gerrard· s reaches 22·-1. 
Detroit University was a breath of fresh air for the Irish, as Notre Dame breezed past their opponent 21-6. The Fighting Irish were victorious in all weapons, winning foil and sabre 6-3 and epee 9-0 .. 
Winnepeg University was the last match for the Notre Dame fencers, as they ignited for a 23-4 victory. The Irish won both foil and sabre 8-1 while taking epee 7-2. 
· This weekend the Irish play host to Ohio State and Michigan State. The Buckeyes and Spartans will be entertained at the ACC at 12 noon on Satu-rday. 


-
Irish fencers chalked up another five matches over the weekend to increase their winning·streak to 59. · 

Irish took control. Bulldog coach George Theofanis said, "Notre Dame has a very god front line, they keep the ball · alive on the boards. They are the toughest front line that we faced all year. They have too many horses." 
With the score 60-48 in Notre Dame's favor, the Irish began a 23-8 spurt that iced the game. The three men that keyed this spree were Dave Batton, Bill Paterno, and Duck Williams. Batton scored I 0 of his 17 points during this rally, most of them coming in close to the hoop. either on layups or tip-ins. 
Williams chipped in 8 of his game-high 25 points, including what announcer Jack Lloyd termed a "semi-dunk," during this same spurt. Bill Paterno had 4 of his 14 points during this span, including his first slam dunk of the season. 
Commenting on the rally that sealed the victory, guard Rich Branning said, "We were looking for a spurt that would put the game out of reach and those dunks seemed to ignite it for us. Dunks really get the crowd going and they in turn give us an emotional lift." 
Toby Knight, however, dis­counted the dunks' emotional lift saying, ''I'd rather dunk it than lay it in because a dunk is a sure two points." 
With 2:32 remaining in the game and the contest's outcome assured, the SWAT squad entered the lineup. The team added final baskets by Dave Kuzmicz and Tim Healy, attaining the final score of 97-74. 
All told, the Irish had five players in double figures. Besides the aforementioned Batton, Williams and Paterno, Knight and 
Branning  also  scored  in  double  
figures,  with  16  and  10  points  
respectively.  

Gators tamed 
LEXINGTON, Ky. (AP)-Florida was anything but dead after Ken­tucky built its early 15 point lead and the Gators, mostly behind Bonner's shooting, closed to within four points with 3:321eft in the first half. · 
Adding insult to injury, Claytor scored from 35 feet with one second on the clock in the first half. 
Kentucky came out strong after intermission as well with Givens scoring a lay-in and Mike Phillips a free throw for a 50-37 lead before Florida got its first points on two free throws bv Bonner. 
The victory was Kentucky's 19th of the season against two losses-­and lOth in a row--and set the Wildcat conference record at 11-1. Florida now is 14-7 overall and 7-6 in SEC play. 

The Irish now take to the road for Finally, it was officially two games later this week. On announced at last night's contest Thursday they will face the Jaspers that the upcoming game with the of Manhattan at Madison Square University of San Francisco, ori­Garden and on Saturday they will ginally set for Tuesday, March 1, be in Morgantown, West Virginia, has been shifted to Saturday, to face the Mountaineers of West March 5 in order to aecomodate a Virginia. national television audience. 

Grapplers score two wins in weekend competition 
The Notre Dame wrestling team was in action this past weekend and wound up its dual meet season with convincing 45-3 and 34-7 victories over Evansville and Val­paraiso on Saturday afternoon. Friday evening the Irish dropped a tough 18-15 decision to the Drake Bulldogs as the weekend action closed out the dual meet record at 8 -6. 
For the Irish junior cocaptain Pat McKillen was victorious in all three of his matches including a pin against his Valparaiso opponent. McKillen is riding an 11-match winning streak and is rapidly closing in on the Notre Dame career wins mark of 58 set last year by Dave Boyer. McKillen, 18-3-1 on the season is 54-13-7 over his three years at Notre Dame. 
Another three-time victor over the weekend was undefeated heav­yweight Bob Golic. Golic regis­tered three pins in boosting his record to 8-0 and never needed to go to the third period in any of his matches. 
Rob Dreger, Notre Dame's win­ningest wrestler this season, also was undefeated on the weekend as he scored a superior decision and two closely-fought wins to up his season's mark to 20-9. Mike Padden was victorious in both matches on Saturday but was defeated on Friday as the 167­pounder now carries a 17-4-1 record for the campaign. 

Irish cocaptain Dan Heffernan, wrestling down a weight at 126 logged two decisions on Saturday while George Gedney was 1-1-1 on the weekend and now stands at 10-6-1 for the season. Dave DiSabato suffered an upper-body injury on Friday night and still managed a victory but was unable to wrestle Saturday. Mike Wilda at 158, John Torres at 142. Steve Miller at 134 and Vince Keszei at 190 all were single winners for the Irish in the victories on Saturday. 
The Irish will be in action this weekend at the 22-team Wheaton invitational, the final tune-up be­fore the Midwest Regionals to be held at Drake University the week­end of March 4-5. 


WCHA tix available at ACC 
While still not a certainty. the Tuesday, March I from 9 a.m. to 5 
possibility exists that Notre Dame p.m. at.the Ticket Windows on the will host some 1977 WCHA play-off second floor of the ACC will receive games. Tickets for any games that tickets in Sec. 8. the Irish may host will go on sale All other Notre Dame and St. 
beginning Tuesday, March I. Mary's students may purchase 
The quartertinal series would be play-off tickets beginning Wednes­played on Wednesday. Mar. 9 and day, March 2. from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Thursday. March 10. The semi­at the Gate Ten ticket window of tina] series would be playec1 "n 
Saturday, Marcil 12 and Sunda~. 
Goshen downs ND women
March 13. The tinal series would be played on Wednesday. March 16 and Thursday. March 17. Face­
in 49-42 b-ball decision 
off time for all six games would be at 7:30 p.m. by Laurie Reising 
Tickets for each contest arc $2 Sports Writer apiece for students and $3 apiece for the public. These arc the lowest The Notre Dame women's bas­prices allowed by the WCHA. ketball team dropped a close one 
Studens are limited to one ticket Saturday afternoon to Goshen Col­apiece for their personal use. 1\ lege. 49-42. student must present his lD at time Goshen. took the lead early in of purchase. A student may the game due to some cold shooting present four IDs for four tickets. and numerous turnovers on the 
Students should bring separate part of the Irish. But Notre Dame 
checks, om· for each ~cries. pay· managed to keep pace with them able to the Univcrsitv of Notre hy connecting at the free throw line Dame. · 
and some line second efforts under 

Student season tickl't holdc1'~ the boards. especially from junior 11·ill have lir-.t priority in pun·has­Marge Meagher. The Irish man­ing plav-otl tickch. Student~ who aged to forge ahl'illl to c11jny a slim preo.,cnl the faLT of their -.eason kad at till' halL l'l-17. L'OIIplm hollk witi1 their Ill card on It \\a-. (1 tiL:ht ~l'l'liiHl h;ilf 11 ith the ACC. Sale will last until the ticket supply is exhausted. 
If Notre Dame does not host the quarterfinals. semifinals and/or finals. tickets for unplayed games can be refunded by presenting them or mailing them to the Ticket Oftice . Athletic and Convocation Center. 
the lead volleying back and forth. Sophomore Carol Lally and Senior Maureen Maloney kept the Irish in the ball game with some fine shooting. and playmaking. The two ended up sharing the high point honors with eight apiece. But the strong Goshen offenseproved to be too mucn and came back late iu the half to take the lead and padded it until time ran out. 
The loss puts the team· s record at 6-2. Tuesday night the squad will be travelling to nearby Bethel College. Thursday night they will wrap up their home season with a game against Chicago State. Tip-­off is· slated for 7 p.m. in the ,\{'{' pit. 
._ 




