

server 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's 
Tuesday, March 1, 1977 

Vol. XI No. 90 
Voting held today . . 
SSP candidates finalize platforms 
by Patrick Cole Senior Staff Reporter 

Wrapping up a week of cam­paigning for the highest student government offices, eight of the nine candidates for Student Body President and Vice-President publicly voiced their platforms to about 80 students in the Keenan Hall chapel last evening for the last time. 
A second forum was held in the Grace Hall pit about 20 minutes after the Keenan assembly in . which the candidates reiterated their views. Rich Hohman, who did not appear at the Alumni Hall forum the night before, did not make an appearance at Keenan Hall. 
Each candidate was allotted four minutes to make a statement. This was followed by a brief question and answer period by the audience. 
After each candidate spoke, a final statement lasting from one to two minutes was delivered by each SPB-hopeful. 
Miranda-Clinton. Student Body Vice Presidential Candidate Bob Clinton emphasiZed in his opening remarks that he and Ralph Miranda, his running mate, want ''open government.'' As in the previous forum, Clinton stressed the need for a student government newsletter, a direct phone line to the SBP. 
"We're interested in small, effi­cient government," Clinton said. "We feel we work well with a small body. We only had 25 people working for us, so we don't owe anything to anyone." 
Clinton also promised, if his ticket is elected, to better coordi­nate hall activities to avoid inci­dents such as the North Quad party and the several conflicts in formal dates that were scheduled around the weekend of March 25. 
"We also want a re-evaluation of 

Voting Locations 

Voting for Student Body Presi­dent, Vice-president and St~dent Life Council representatives wtll be conducted today in thl;! halls from 
parietals," Clinton said. "This thing is kicked around each year.'' 
Mooney-Morrison. "Read today's Observer," SBP Candidate Pat Mooney advised the group. ''All the pertinent issues of the candidates are there." 
Nevertheless, Mooney continued to briefly discuss his sole proposal: that a student body vice-president­ial candidate be a freshman or sophomore. "Some people may say that's too restrictive," he said. "But the only restriction is that the junior couldn't run. In re-election, if he's incompetent, the people wouldn't vote for him." 
The main advantage, Mooney said, is that the proposal would provide for one "potential candi­date that had some previous exper­ience." 
In a response to a question from the audience about not knowing the problems until getting into office, Mooney responded, "What we offer is an approach to problems. We don't concrete solutions." 
His running mate, Bruce Mor­rison, stated the ticket is trying to "sell realism." An ~xample he cited contrary to realism was the attempt to involve rectors in the student-life issues which is the opposing view held by SBP candi­date David Bender. 
RusseD-Geppert. SBP-hopeful J. 
P. Russell emphasized to the crowd that his platform is mainly con­cerned with the revitalization of student government, the develop­ment of action-oriented social life and the student 
11:30 to 1 p.m. and 5 to 6:30p.m. 
Off-Campus students may vote from 11 to 5 p.m. in the Huddle. 
government. He also stated that his campaign was one of "famili­arity" and also listed the need for a weekly newsletter and a career development program in the indi­vidual departments and societies such as the Pre-Law and Pre-Med organizations on campus. 
His running mate, John Geppert, stressed their ability to implement the ideas of their campaign. He noted that Russell had experience in presenting ideas to the Board of Trustees. 
Concerning a question about resolving the problems of social life at Notre Dame, Russell responded, "There's no simple solution to social life. What can we do? There are little improvements we can make such as a student facility or building a pizza facility or re-vital­izing the use of the Half-Way House by Holy Cross Hall or making better use of Stepan Center." 
Then another student asked a question about the Russell-Geppert outlook on the role of the hall president. Russell explained, "There are 22 different hall con­stitutions with 22 different ideas on the role of the hall president. What we propose is to standardize this." 
Talbot-Hughes. John Talbot, the fourth candidate to speak at the forum, expressed a need for a working relationship among stu­dent government leaders. 
Talbot criticized the present judicial boards. "Their problem is that there aren't any respectable people on them," he said. "And people ask can student government really change this." 
"But we hope to build a relation­ship with the workers in the student government," Hughes said. 
Hughes, the vice-presidential candidate, told of some plans to create better activities by the ticket, if elected. He suggested the publication of a booklet, describing the various social functions in the Notre Dame-St. Mary's community and using Stepan Center more by encouraging small bands, for example, to appear. 
Talbot, in response to a question about achieving cooperation in the student government, stated the need to develop "a one-to-one relationship with the people" with whom one works. 
Bender-Soma. David Bender, 
currently president of Sorin Hall, 
opened his statement by saying 
that no candidate has discussed the 
need to restructure the SLC. The 
Bender-Soma platform calls for the 
membership of rectors as well as 
four hall social commissioners. 
Bender also stressed the need for 
Student Union accountability. 
But Bender also explained the 
need for better relations with 
alumni, saying that unless the 
student body has some support, 
"we are only talking to ourselves." 
"Some alumni say that the only 
means of communication is through 
the Notre Dame Magazine," 
Bender said. 
He then talked about the experi­
ence of his running mate, Soma, as 
well as briefly touching on his own 
as Sorin president. "People here here is responsible for the laundry "Look at our wants--adding an proposal that will enable us to do hour to parietals--what does this our own laundry." Bender also say about our directions and noted Soma's role in the Farmer values?" Hardy asked. Brown proposal. Hardy emphasized the need ·for 

In response to a government addressstudent
question, to 
itself to more universal concerns,Bender emphasized the need for one of those concerns being minor­more student representation on the ity needs.
SLC. Soma further commented on "We need to address ourselvesthe council. "H you ask 95 out of to the problem of racism," Hardy100 people about the SLC, they'll · said. "It's not just to blacks, but to say that it hasn't done anything. 
international students and otherAnd just look, only two candidates minorities as well." She alsoare running for the SLC offices in stated that some people maythis election." 
consider the number of minorities 
liardy-Mclver. Boasting a small, but she said, "the smaller unique platform, Valerie Hardy the number of minorities, the asked the audience, "Look at these greater the problem." candidates and ask how they Finally, Hardy urged students to challenge you. They're just trying be aware of how the University to please you, they're out for your uses its financial resources, warn­vote. [contlnued on page 4] 
Prof. Danehy files suit against the University for attempting to retire him. [Photo by Tony Chifari] 
Mandatory retirement forces Danahy to s·ue 
by Maureen Flynn Campus Editor 
Dr. James P. Danehy, professor of chemistry, filed suit yesterday against the University of Notre Dame, contending that his contract and his civil rights have been violated by a University decision that he must retire at the end of the academic year. 
Danehy, who will be 65 years old on April 27, maintains that his tenured position entitles him to full employment as long as he is able to fulfill his teaching duties. 
He also alleges in his suit that Notre Dame "has no rational requirement standards fairly applied to all faculty members." 
The Faculty Hamlbook states that ''a member of the faculty ordinarily retires and becomes emeritus on the first day of July following his sixty-fifth birthday ... When a member is permitted to continue in active service beyond the date prescribed for retirement, service beyond that date will be on the basis of a year-to-year appoint­ment ... " 
Danehy argues that tenure is "permanence of appointment," as stated in the Facnlty Handbook, and that his contract can only be terminated for cause. 
A letter from University Provost Fr. James T. Burtchaell, dated Nov. 11 and attached to Danehy's suit, deniel> that the professor is being retired on the basis of age. 
Burtchaell's letter states that Danehy's tenure will end this year because· he will have reached the age of 65. The decision will then have to be made whether or not to appoint him for the following year. The question will be whether Danehy is the most qualified person available for the position, the provost's letter states. 
A letter from Chemistry Depart­ment Chairman Jeremiah Free­man, also attached to the suit, states that the University needs "a constant infusion of new, young people" into a science department. 
The decision in no way reflects dissatisfaction with Danehy's con­duct of his responsibilities, Free­man notes. 
Danehy currently teaches or­ganic chemistry and chairs the Faculty Senate. 
"I feel a good case can be made out that I have a right to continue employment, at least for next year," Danehy said yesterday. "I hope this will lead to a break­through judicial decision that will guarantee others that their employ­ment will :tot be terminated arbi­trarily on the basis of any particular age limit." 
University officials could not be reached last night for comment. 
Danehy is asking for a prelimi­nary injunction, to be followed by a permanent injunction, against changing his position as a professor or denying him the rights associ­ated with that rank. 
He has also asked the court to rule on his rights in the case and to r·.'nder an unspecified amount in d.tmages. 


the observer Tuesday, March 1, 1977 


,_--News Briefs--......_. 
•================International 
Demonstrators protest election 
SAN SALVADOR, El Salvador (AP)-Heavily armed police backed by armored personnel carriers early today cleared some 6,000 antigovernment demonstrators from a downtown square they had occupied since Tuesday in a protest over the outcome of persidential elections. 
Defeated presidential candidate Emesto Claramount Roseville and about half the demonstrators took refuge in a church on Liberty Plaza, scene of six days of demonstrations, speeches and allegations of fraud. 
•==================Nationru 

Billy· Carter to speak at IDC 
INDIANAPOUS(AP)-"We're going to give Billy something to remember," says Sid Ford, president of the Indiana Democrat Club, whose guest speaker Saturday night will be President Carter's beer-drinking brother. 
What they have in mind, Ford said, is putting one can of Billy's favorite brew inside a 400-pound block of ice and then handing him an ice-pick "and letting him go at it... 
The ice block will be carved into the shape of a peanut, of course. 
._,__On Campus Today_.....,.. 
all day -workshop, "solar energy utilization: practical application for engineers, architects and builders", sponsored by iusb/smc/nd, registration open, call 284-5787 for information · 
11 am to -sculpture exhibition, moira marti geoffrion exhibit 3 pm soft sculpture and weavings, isis gallery, free. 
-mass, celebrated by fr. griffin, Iafortune ballroom12:15 pm -workshop, job search workshop, sponsored by smc
1:15pm 

student affairs office, smc executive board room. 
-computer course, "minitab statistics system",
3:30pm 

room 115, math building. 
4:30pm -lecture, "tumor cell characterization and its relevance to genomic programming by the nuclear transplantation procedure," by dr. robert g. mckinnell, univ. of minnesota, sponsored by biology dept., room 278, galvin life science center. 
-meeting; peace corps and vista recruiters, room 3177 pm 
administration building, all welcome. 
7 pm -lecture, "geology of the bering shelf" by san key I. blanton, american association of petroleum geolo­gists", sponsored by earth science dept., room 101, earth science building. 
7 9:15 and -film, "murder on the orient express", sponsored by 
11:30 pm nc! cheerleaders, engineering aud. 
-lecture, solar energy lecture, sponsored by
7:30pm 

iusb/smc/nd, open to the public, carroll hall. 
-meeting, charismatic prayer meeting, log cabin
7:30pm 
chapel. 
-concert, smc8 pm dept., little theater. 

9 to 11 pm -concert, nd jazz band, nazz, free. 
*The Observer 
Night Editor: Paul M. Schappler Asst. Night Editor: Steve Odland 
layout Staff: Steve Kendra, Sandy Colson, Cecelia Mitchell, Drew John Wolf Features Layout: Martha Fanning Sports layout: Paul William Stevenson 
Typists: Nancy Cueroni, Mel Celeste, Kathy Egbert, Karen Chiames Night Controller: Donald Roos Day Editor: Jean Powley 
Copy Reader: Kathy Nolan Ad layout: Pat Russell Photographer: Kevin Walsh 
Happy Birthday, Mary Alice Dacosse! 
I miss you Cindy. 
~~-~~ 
TONfiE 



From9-121/2 From9-l2 
PRICE 

DRAFTS -MIXED DRINKS 
SMC Ireland plans discussed 
.• 
-.. 
-

Kreskin will perform his miracles Wednesday in Stepan Center. [Photo by Tony Chifari] 
Kreskin strikes again! _ 
The "Amazing Kreskin" will perform on Wednesday, March 2, at 7:30p.m. in Stepan Center. 
Sponsored by the Student Union Academic and Social Commissions, Kreskin is a men­talist who specializes in predict­ing the content of notebooks and purses, mental ilio~ghts of stu-


Amin reschedules meeting 
WASHINGTON [AP] • President Idi Amin of Uganda has postponed a scheduled meeting with some 240 Americans at Entebbe Airport ­causing the State Department ,to withdraw a plan to send a top diplomat to Kampala. 
According to a broadcast moni· tored here, another date for the session with American missionar­ies, teachers and others in the East African country will be announced later. 
The American diplomat, Talcott Seelye, is currently on a two-week tour of Africa. An experienced troubleshooter who was posted to Beirut dt'llring the civil war in Lebanon he was to have gon to the Uganda capital in response to Amin's message to Washington inviting a U.S. representative to meet with him. 
The Ugandan announcemtn caught the State Department by surprise. During the day, while it prepared plans for the Seelye mission, officials gave assurances that there was "no cause for alarm" about the scheduled meet­ing tomorrow. 
Seeking clarification, Secretary 
of State Cyrus R. Vance said the 
Ugandan charge here, Paul 
Charubet, was being called in for 
consultations. He will confer with 
Philip C. Habib, the undersecre­
tary for political affiars. 
In an earlier broadcast, the 
Ugandan government quoted A min 
as saying President Carter "was 
still new and young in office" and 
not quite familiar with African 
affairs. It said Amin has told a 
Saudi Arabian diplomat that Carter 
should have studied the situation 
carefully and found out "the true 
facts" before making any public 
comments. 
At the same time, Amin was said 
to have told the Saudi charge that 
the Americans in Uganda were 
secure and well and that Amin 
"has no problem at all" with them. 
The Nairobi newspaper Dally 
nation reported that the Americans 
in Uganda were being followed day 
and night by armed plainclothes­
men. 
In the Ugandan broadcast, the 
text of which was received here, 
Amin advised Carter that "all the 
Americans in Uganda were directly 
under his command" and not 
under the American President. 
According to the broadcast, 
Carter has appealed to several 
heads to state in Africa and the 
Arab world, asking them to use 
"their good offices" with Amin 
regarding the Americans. The 
lastes appeal, the broadcast said, 
was made by Prince Fahd of Saudi 
Arabia. 
At a news conference last week, dents and the hidden location of his own paycheck. 
A veteran of both the stage and television, Kreskin per­formed before a capacity audi­ence at Notre Dame last year. 
Admission is 50 cents at the door. 
Tuesday, March 1, 1977 the observer 


Heaven-Hell events slated 
The Student Union Social Com· mission will sponsor "Heaven and Hell" weekend this Friday and Saturday Mar. 4 and 5, Assistant Commissioner Nancy Budds an­nounced. 
The weekend's activities will begin Friday afternoon at 3:30 with a double shot happy hour. Kubiak's Bar, in Niles, will offer a happy hour from 3:30 til 7 p.m., featuring S 1.50 pitchers of beer and 
•25 cent drafts. 
The Heidelberg Bar, also in Niles, will offer all mixed drinks at . 50 cents. The Heidleberg has just opened its new game room, com­plete with pinball, foosball, air hockey, shuffle board and pool tables. 
Kevin Saddler, social commis-, sioner, said "it might be a good. idea for students to take advantage of this offer, principally because both bars are looking for more student patronage. Also the stu­dent's demand to go to Michigan is the sole purpose of the Quickie. If the need for safe transportation diminishes we'd like to find out as soon as possible.'~
The Quickie will run throughout the afteruoon from the main circle 
~ 

Carter said recent actions in watching the situation closely," Uganda "have disgusted the entire primarily through West German civilized world" and that "horrible · diplomats who represent U.S. in­murders" had apparently taken terests in Uganda. Brown said 
.place in the country. assurances from Amin of the State Department spokesman Americans' well-being have been Federick Z. Brown said "we are relayed here. 
Peace Corps-Vista .. needs volunteers for services 
• Peace Corps-Vista representa­tives will be on campus to talk ·about volunteer opportunities on Tuesday, March 1 at 7:30 p.m. in the Administration Building Rm. 317 and Wednesday, Mar. 2 from 
4:30 -5:30 in the Little Theater of . LaFortune. 
A male reading tutor is needed for a fifth grade boy. Also, an individual is needed one hour a day, Wednesday tl.lrough Friday, to see a physically handicapped boy. 
If interested,  call Volunteer  Ser~  
vices at 7308.  
Volunteers  are  needed  as  Girl  

Scout leaders for fourth, fifth and sixth graders. It would require one evening a week and no transporta­tion is necessary. For more information, call Rhonda McDoug­al at 277-0900. 
,Students interested in working with children in day care centers please call volunteer services, 7308.• 
.loi111ht'~\!ttll/onlSuJJIJJitl\~t~\JitJ/1. 
• Choose from a wide variety of introductory and advanced courses taught by Stanford's own distinguished faculty and guest professors. Courses in such fields as: 
• history I humanities I languages 1 sciences mathematics I technology I social sciences education I special programs and institutes 


~----~----~----~----~-J 
• Surround yourself with our unusually pleasant nearby beaches and red woods, and enjoy the and recreational attractions of a great university and San Francis'co Bay Area. 

and Holy Cross (Saint Mary's). 
Other features of Heaven Day include the computer dating ser­vice. "We hope to be able to make as many matches as possible but I'm sure everybody can understand that there wasn't an equal number of girls and guys who filled out the applications.'' Those who are matched will receive a letter infor­ming them of the identity of their date . 
"We are offering a wide variety . 
of activities for the couple to choose from. I hope everybody's date works out the way they wanted it," Sadler commented. 
Saturday's events center around the "Heaven to Hell" dance in the LaFortune Student Center. The center will be turned into a bilevel dance center. Big Funky Deal will be playing in the ballroom. 
There will also be a disco party in the Nazz at the same time. A<!!n~~ion is one ~lar and passes 
INTERNATIONAL CAREER? 

A representative will be on the campus 
TUESDAY MARCH 8, 1977 
to discuss qualifications for advanced study at 
AMERICAN GRADUATE SCHOOL and job opportunities in the field of 
INTHNATJONAL MANAGEMENT 
Interviews may be scheduled at 
PLACEMENT OFFICE 
AMERICAN GRADUATE SCHOOL OF INTERNATIONAL MANAGEMENT Thunderbird Campus Glendale, Arizona 85306 
climate, cultural the 
will be available to  attend either  
event.  
The  Huddle  will  offer  an  ice  

cream special all day Friday and Saturday featuring a 20 ounce sundae for two (50 cents) and a tutti 
frutti ~9ae fQr twQ_ ($1.00). 
need resumes in a h·urry? 
. .
•nsly·pr•nls~ 
the wiz of the printingbiz! 
rag bond 25 -8 1/2 x 11 $2.55 203 N. Main So Bend 289-697 

OF INFORMATION ON JOBS IN SPORTS 


ADMINISTRATION 
"For people interested in the 
field, the Sports Administra­
tion Guide and Directory 
offers some tips on schools 
and job hunting." · 
This quote from a Career Profile editorial in Money Magazine indicates the impo1 tance of getting the right start in the pursuit of a career in sports administration. National Sports Marketing Bureau has just published the 1977 edition of the Guide. It explains what kinds of non­playing jobs are available, where to find them and how to go about getting them. The Directory has been ex­panded to cover addresses and names of contacts in arenas. minor league base­ball and major college con­ferences as weil as every major sports league. 
Mail this coupon with your 
payment today. Get the right 
start towards a career in 
sports administration. 
r---------------------~
I Mail to: 
National Sports 
Marketing Bureau 
360 Lexington Ave. 
New York. N.Y. 10017 
Yes. I am interested in a non­playing career in sports En· closed please ftnd $5.00 for the 1977 Sports Administration Guide and Directory. Price includes postage and handling New York residents add sales tax. 
J 
"' ~ 
~ 
J 
~ ~ > .... 
~ 0 = ~ 




Woodward speaks _on politics 

by Mary Kay Baron 
Kenneth Woodward, Ideas and Religion Editor of Newsweek mag­azine, shared his interest in "The Rising of Evangelicals in America" with a small audience in the library lounge last night. 
Focusing upon evangelicalism and politics, Woodward stated, "We wouldn't be here tonight if it weren't for the candidacy and presidency of Jimmy Carter who brought evangelicalism to the · notice of the overculture. It provided curiosity, some divided 
· hostility and issueda kind ofhigher evangelical chic, at least for a while among the southern New Yor­kers," Woodward stated. 
"Politically, white evangelicals form the backbone of the majority of Protestant voters. In turn, Protestant voters are the most politically and socially conservative group in America. The Jewish are the most liberal, and the Catholics come next,'' he continued. 

Woodward does not feel Carter's election has resulted in an age of evangelicalism as a major political ·force in American politics. "As a Woodward spoke on religion and politics last night. · democrat and as a politician who is [Photo by Kevin Walsh] more liberal than the evangelical 


Library contributions solicited 
by Kevin M. Walsh Staff Reporter 

In· response to Notre Dame's need for more library materials, an appeal for contributions · is cur­rently being made to alumni to enable the library staff to purchase more books and periodicals. 
According to David 1;, Sparks, director of the University Libraries, such appeals ·are standard proce­dure in order to keep the alumni moving andcontributionsso that the· needs of the library can be met. 
Contribution increases have be~ come more important in recent years, for in 1973, a report issued by the Committee on University Priorities stated, ''The library has had difficulty keeping abreast of its academic peers in the past years." In 1974, a study conducted by the North Central Accreditation Asso­ciation reported, ''The Memorial Library ranks near the last in spending among research libraries in volumes held, new volumes added annually, and in total dollars spent for the library." 
Since 1974, the library's endow­ment fund has increased over $412,000 to a total of approximately $1,060,000, but according to some Notre Dame educators, the library is still deficient in some areas. 
Fr. Marvin O'Connell, chairman of the History Department, said, "In general, the· faculty of the history department is satisfied with the. library's collection for under­graduate research." But O'Connell states that, for graduate students and faculty, the research library does not have enough volumes. "There i~ an uneven amount available for graduate study as compared with undergraduate study," he sajd. 
Dr. Robert Gordon, vice-presi­dent of Graduate Studies, expres­sed similar views. "There are problems over there," said Gordon 
when asked about the library. He ment funds restrict the money 
stated that outside reviews by spent for books to just one particu­
experts see the library as being, if lar department each year. Sparks 
not a problem now, then a problem noted that there are several funds 
in the future. ·like these and an extra effort is 
Sparks agreed that the library being made to increase the lib­

was deficient in the number ·and rary~s annual gift flow of about 
timeliness of books in certain $5,000 by soliciting more donations 
departments, especially history which are unrestricted, from alum­
and business, but said the library ni. 
has improved since the studies of a In an effort to meet ~he needs of few years ago. He states, though, every academic department in that a lack of funds prohibits the accordance .with available funds, acquisition of enough volumes to Sparks said, "The library has correct the deficiency. "Journal faculty liasons that check with ~ubscriptions have risen 22 percent faculty heads to find out the various . and hardbooks cost 12 percent department needs and the quality more now," Sparks said. of the presnt collections." Sparks 
In addition to the lack of general also suggested the possibility of 

funds, Sparks attributed the special having an external review on the 
endowments as another reason for library similar to that which the 
the imbalance in the library's graduate school is currently under­
collt~ction, since special endow-going. 
SMC students attend nursing convention 
by Mary Pinard ' convention," Beckman said. "I'II 
also be a delegate at the national 
Three Saint Mary's College nur­convention in Miami this yeG•r." 

sing students attended theindiana The criterion of a professional 
Association of Nursing Students nurse was determined. A four-year 
(IANS) convention last weekend in nursing program (a bachelor's 
Indianapolis. degree) is to be required as 
Sally Beckman, Carole Ceman opposed to a· two or three-year 

and Teresa Heimlich, all junior program. . . 
nursing students, volunteered to Other topics discussed at the 
repre~ent St. Mary's nursing pro­convention includ~d child abuse 
gram for the first time at the annual laws, mandatory continuing educa-· 
meeting. The purpose of the tion and the equal rights amend­
convention is to unite student ment. Lectures were given by 
nursing organizations and to dis­experts in their respective fields on 
cuss legislation and policies for head injury,~trauma through bone 
specific nursing issues. injury and rape. 
New student officers were elect­The convention was helpful and 

ed and Sally Beckman was chosen informative, according to the St. 
as first vice-president of the IANS. Mary's representatives. "St. 
"My job as vice-president will Mary"s is a new program and it is 
involve organizing workshops to beneficial for us to be repre­
improve nursing skills, orientating sented,'' Heimlich commented· 
new officers in local areas ano "we will become better known and 
programs and planning next year's the recognition will be good." 
establishment, Carter has created a "Since evangelicalism is certainly crisis in evangelical circles. He one of our major sub-cultures (50 tested and personally broke the million adults have had the born­
unequal yoke between conservative again experience) we ought to get politics and conservative Protestant to know it. Evangelicalism forms a religion." human community and basis for Woodward cited several reasons identity for many people. And the for his interest in evangelicalism. conservative churches are growing "We should know our Christian because they provide certainty, brothers, that's first," he stated. meaning, and sense of belonging." 

Ricci-Eck explain platform · 
[continued from page 1] 
ing that we should "feel respons­
ible" for what the school does. 
Rlcci-Eck. Ken Ricci, presently 
director of the Student Union, told 
the audience that the most impor­
tant quality a candidate can give to 
his job is commitment. 
Mark Eck, Ricci's running mate, 
hinted an improvement in social 
life. "There's a legal loophole in 
the alcohol policy," he announced. 
"But also we think we, by working 
with Bro. Ryan, can get more 
money for the business· school to 
help get more teachers. We would 
like to create a book co-op that 
could operate all year long.· 
The candidates also suggested 
that the judicial boards need to be 
improved with the possibility of 
using law students to advise stu­
dents of their rights. 
"Why should you vote for me?" 
Ricci asked in response to a 
question from the audience. 
"Because we're more committed 
than any other candidate." 
Lew-Dunagen. Closing out the 
forum was Tim Lew who made 
some reflections on the Student 
Body Presidency. 
"The Student Body President doesn't have much power," h!;: said. "The whole idea of the SBP 
.-------~~~~~~I
NEED LOW-COST 
TRANSPORTATION?I I 
I 
We can help. · · Contact: 
I
I Auto Driveaway Co. ' 
674-9786 
1 
L 
I Deposit Required Returned at Destination I ··Mustbe21.--• 
.
r--.~~----~~~--------~--~~ ~­
w I 
r-

SMC 
THEATRE 
$2.50 ($2 Std, Fac) 
284-4176· 
Noire name Sludenr Union and Pacific Presenrauons oresenl 
~ 
CQ 




THEY 
Polish playwright 
Stanislaw Witkiewicz' hilarious farce on human existence • 
Mar. 3,4,5 
ats:OO p.m. 
0'Laughlin Auditorium 
is not what the students want. 
When the elections are over, the 
student government is only as 
strong as the people behind it." 
"The power lies in the stu­
dents," Lew said. "If I'm elected president I will have a limited · role." He continued to say he would not use the office to put his 
friends in power. 
Lew said the way you make the 
government for the students is by 
letting people see the need to care 
for it. "If people are concerned, 
then there will be enough people to 
get involved," he said. 
The interests of the students, 
Lew stated, should come before his 
own interests. 
After concluding remarks by the 
Student Body President candi­
dates, the forum concluded and 20 
minutes later they assembled at the 
Grace Hall pit, repeating their 
platform ideas once more. 
•• if •• 
• people keep • 
• telling you to • • quit smoking • : cigarettes : • don't listen . . . · • 
• they're • • • probably trying to : 
•. trick you :
. .
. 
•. Into • 
0 

} 
.l;:~~:::AN~
CANCER • • -· SOCIETY 
. . -~ 
--. 

IN CONCERT! 
wllh special uuesl 10 be announced 
Friday March 25 • 8:00 p.m. 
Notre Dame A.C.C. • South Bend 
Jlckels: $6.50/$5.50 and on sate at the A.c.c. and N.D. Studeor umon 
and all A.C.C. ticket outlets. 


----------------~--------------~--------------------------------------..----~~~~~--------~ 

. Just Another (Loud) Band out of Boston 
by Scott Appleby 
In spite of a banal, overbearing warm-up , group and a tediously loud sound system, Boston manages to woo last night's ACC crowd with an erratic display of the innovative talent that has earned them plaudits as best new group of the year, and boosted their debut album sales to three million copies. 
Uncomfortably enough, a similar bid for recognition by Rick Derringer in the opening set failed miserably. Whatever latent virtuosity Rick might have as a musician remained suspect as he opted for sheer decibel force. Without doubt, he competently proved the old adage that all weak, uninspired rock 'n' roll perform­ances sound exactly the same--loud and boorish. Derringer eyen blew his "big draw": "Rock 'n' Rollflootchie Koo" was interrupted by a tasteful primoridal scream as well as an energetic burst of stylish choreography (Rick and the boys would leap into mid-aid, quiver all over and spin tb~~aggy heads like so many childre.n). 
The high point of the show was the Steely Dan album broadcast over the P.A. system which highlighted intermission. 
Boston was better, but not by much. Although obviously superior to Derringer 

Photos by Mark Ricca 
:,:~ 

Fr. Bill Toohe'J 
" 'Mutual exchange through conversa­tion' is still a principal definition for intercourse, according to the _latest edition of standard dictionaries." That was the comment with which I began a recent class in human relationships for one of our Free University courses. 
Conversation was a rather common meaning for "intercourse" several years ago; but very few think of it that way now. You realize how complete has been the loss of that meaning when you find yourself reacting with amusement to a statement like the following: "The sisters shall not have intercourse with any priest, without the permission of Mother Superior" (from a convent rule-book that, needless to say, has been re-written in recent years). 
In a way, it's too bad we've lost our appreciation for intercourse as conversa­tion, because it could be a clue to understanding intercourse as sexual union. Language can be a key for young persons in their quest for understanding what is truly involved in heterosexual relating. 
For example, gestures always accom­pany relationships. What is the body language saying? Is what it is saying really true? These are the questions. Gestures are meant to reveal what already is fact; they don't cause the reality. The kiss, for instance, a beautiful and powerfully sym­bolic gesture, is meant to communicate something that is already true. Kissing


l never creates friendsh!I?i_i.t symbolizes an_d_ whatever inconsistency !lli!.Y...J?c present in in musicianship, harmonies, and material, the quintet suffered from much the same plague--hard, driving rock tempered only by more hard, driving rock. This marked lack of variety. in song speeds hinders Boston by confining its musical approach to an interesting, but highly repetitive, bag of tricks. For example, Brad Delp, the lead singer and head rah-rah of the group, introduced a new song ("A Man I'll Never­Be") which boasted a strong melody, tight arrangement, and a solo guitar middle which was ·immoderately reminiscent of the corresponding section of "More Than a Feeling." Iii like manner, -M.I.T. product 






Intercourse 
expresses it. Thus you can see how unfortunate it is that we Americans have so cheapened the kiss; it is in danger of losing its specialness, as it occurs more and more casually and thoughtlessly. 
What about more neutral gestures, like hand-holding or the embrace? A great deal does depend upon the circumstances. A young man and woman embracing might indicate they are lovers; but it could be the occasion of the death of the girl's father, ,in which case, the young man, through the same sign of embrace, would be communi­eating compassion and sympathy. 
For most people, intercourse, as sexual union, is a gesture communicating a most specific message. For the majority of persons, it says : "I am yours; we are bound to one another; I surrender to you without conditions or time limitations; I love you and wish to proclaim this in all I do; I want this physical union to say what I ~an't say in words." This is the body mguage of marriage; and that's why there ., a. problem with pre-marital intercourse. t can mean a violation of the principle: ;'here must be a consistency between 
gesture and reality. 
The above meaning of coitus is an ideal, of course; and ·not that easy to live up to. The gesture of sexual intercourse can also be distorted, as the kiss, and mis-used to speak a message far less noble than marital surrender. But what a difference between the sexual univn of two unmarried persons 

who arC(. nonetheless! deeply in love and 
planning to be marrieosome day, and, on 
the other hand, the sexual · intercourse 
between two people who hardly know each 
other. In this second instance, the 
beautiful language of love is perverted and 
twisted into shallow travesty; a kind of 
body language B.S. 

Consistency between gesture and reality isn't a challenge for the unmarried only. Because gestures like· intercourse are so powerfully self-satisfying, they demand strong motivations of love. Ironically, what we call "making love" can be very unloving and almost· totally an exercise in self-gratification (a vaginal masturbation), if both persons do not focus their loving attention and conscious tenderness on each other. It just so happens that when self-gratification goes up, so does the possibility of becoming oblivious of the other person involved. For example, every young man I've ever talked with on the subject admits that it is a fact of life that it makes a great deal of difference who the woman is to whom you offer those small, selfless, tender actions of thoughtfulness; but things change significantly when you're referring to intercourse ... it is so explosively self-satisfying, it is liable to make much less differt'n.-: who's involved. Thus the crude, cruel remark you some­times hear: "Sure she'-. ugl·.: just put a 
sack ov~r her head~ you"I!E!ver know th~_:_...!t::.;h::..:is~.~ca,_,mc.:..:.t:p::..:u"""s,_.----------­
Tom Scholz was a crowd-pleaser With his clever "flying saucer sound"; unfortun­ately, the technological additions to lead guitar were somewhat over-employed during the course of the evening. 
Despite these bothersome difficulties, Boston had its moments of brilliance. The opening number "Rock 'n' Roll Band" was prophetic: "When we got up on stage and got ready to play, The people came alive." Indeed, the audience appreciated the fast-moving piece, replete with feverish rhythin-bass work and characteristically polished harmony. Also successful in this genre were "Smokin"' and "Foreplay­Long Time," both of which brought to mind critical suggestions that Boston draws heavily from the influences of Yes and Led Zeppelin. 
The night's biggest treat, however, came in the third song of the set, Boston's big draw, "More Than a Feeling." Although the live version suffered measurably outside the studio, the im­pressive arrangement of the number and the strength of the song itself survived. An anthem to the restorative, mystical powers · of music, the hit single showcased Delp's range and inflection as lead vocalist. The rousing "Peace of Mind" and the stylish "Something About Her" were also top. contenders for best performance. Both songs displayed Boston's knack for sWift, smooth changes and transition in rhythm. 
Thus, ringing ears and scrambled brains swarmed happily out ofthe ACC last night. The overbearing sound level and feeling of sameness apparently didn't quell crowd enthusiasm for their new rock 'n' roll superstar group. Only one pretty young lady, smartly dressed in a green pantsuit, was overhead to exclaim: "It was good, but why do these groups always play so loudly?" 

FR. TOOHEY 
_difference once you get her in bed." 
"Attitudes and behavior that are res­
ponsible, respectful, loving and truly 
promotive of the good of both parties are 
moral; those that are exploitative, irres­
ponsible, disrespectful or destructive of the 
true good of either party must be judged 
immoral." That's the guideline for sexual 
morality. Admittedly, easier said than 
done, Most importantly, it's a principle 
that needs a lot of reflection and discus­
sion, a lot more than it and the whole issue 
of human scxualit~· is presently getting on 
,...........~~--~~--..----~----~--------~---~-----------------------------------------------------­
the observer Tuesday, March 1, 1977 

ND parentS' median income rises 
by There&~& RebeCk the results of a survey which is with thenauonalimedian now set at 'ourselves out of the middle class, students at the time they 1"" cOnducted annually by the Ameri­$20,300 to Notre Dame's $27,800. but we're certainly not pricing accepted and as a result the Notre 
can Council on Education on sev­When asked what this rise in ourselves out of the market,'' he Dame student comes from every eral campuses in the nation. figures might reflect about the type stated. "Applications have in­walk of life." 
The median parental income for Five years ago, the median of sW,derits presently enrolled at creased 40 percent over the past Fr. Hesburgh, ·University presi­a Nptre Dame freshman was parental income recorded by the the University, John· T. Goldrick, four years, which proves that dent, also expressed little concern; 527,800 this year, according to a ACE for a Notre Dame freshman director of admissions, stated that students still very much want to about the rising figures and was . statement released last month by was $20,000, $5,000 higher than he had been aware of the figures come here." surprised that they were not high-1• 
\Uchard Conklin, director of Infor-the national median of $15,000. but had not thought that much of He also claimed that ''the admis­er. "I had heard somewhere that 'lation Services. However, tne current difference them. sions department knows nothing they were much higher than that This information was based on ; 1between the two medians is $7,500, "I don't know if we're J!!icing ..about the fa~y income. of the this year," he stated . 
He noted that it was possible that the tuition for Notre Dame was 

becoming harder to meet for those in the middle class, but that-"62 . by Jeu Pewley . 11!>..., Ul tefillable COntainers. A United ~ta,es Department ot aepena upon a variety of factors, percent of the students here are on 
Sealor Stafflleporter • According to Julie Englehardt, commerce study _ittdi~atesthat pass­"Chief among these factors is the some sort of financial aid," which chairperson of the Notre Dame age -of -the oill would actually degree returnable bottles replace alleviated the problem somewhat. chapter of the Indiana Public increase job opportunities by be­cans. Ifmore returnables are used, ''Notre Dame students are above 
Bottle bill proposal to increase deposit use 
The "bottle bill" has come to 

Interest Research Group (lnPIRG), ween 13,000 and 3~,000 positions. then less~ans will be used and average in just so many areas -72 Indiana. Scheduled to come before such a bill .would be of great benefit ''The current ~e-way system is hence, the can industry will be percent come in with an average of 
the Indiana General Assembly to the state in the areas of ecology, inherently less l11bor \ntensive than more affected. On the other hand, A or A-. This is a much moreduring this session, the proposed economy and energy consumption, a refillable system and a subStan­if cans retain their share of the important fact," Hes~urgh com-. 

bill would put a deposit on all without seriously affectins_:eni~oy· tian increase in required ·workers beverage market by , developing mented. .

carbonated beverage and beer cans would result, provided that com­effective colleciton techniques, Hesburgh also pomted out thaiand would strongly encourage the men~ or beverage prices. 

sumption of soft drinks and malt then the can industry will not be although the percentage of blacks beverages does not decline sub­greatly affected • • they t>nt..tf. 1entering the university was lower stantially," the Commerce study . ' · . . than the national average, the Two vers1ons of the bill will be : percentage of Chicano students is
said.

Debators place second 
broug~t before the house ~mmit-1greater. In reference to the overalJ 
Passage of the bill would also 

te~ th1s m~mth. J:Iouse Bill 1668, percentage of minorities, "we a­by Jake Morrl~~~~ey Funded tnrough a University bring the cleal)-up of the state's wntten by ·Rep. Ric~ardson wo~ld verage ou! to just about even wii4
trust fund, the team, both novice streets, rivers and air. Reductions put a five-.cent deposit on cans With the ·rest of the country." 
The novice section of the Notre and varsity, attend about eight wouhJ be from 34 to 87 percent in pop-top. hds a~d three cents on Hesburgh also pointed out that aDame debate team came in second tournaments a year. They are a water-born wastes and 30 to 71 
~ose w1th no hds, great deal of aid (SO percent of that place at the Citadel debate tourna­member of a four-state district percent in air effluents generated 
ment, according to Jim Maniace, conference, comprising Dlinois, In­by throw-away production, InPIRG House Bill 1801 proposed by available to this year's freshmen) is debate team captain. diana, Michigan and Ohio. They noted. Roadside litter, of which Rep. Johns would put a ten-cent awarded to minori~ students, even 
The team is composed of two have debated teams outside the 20 to 30 percent is beverage cans, deposit on all beverage cans and tho11;gh they constitute a very small freshmen, Larry Kenny and Jim conference, including the Univer­would noticeably decrease, they bottles, unless they can be utilized portion ~f the::_ !'tudent body. Jones. They took first and second sity of Kentucky, Harvard, George­also found. by all manufacturers, in which case -Overall, there was little ooncern · speakers, respectively. town and University of Southern Finally, refillables would reduce the deposit would be five cents. His among administrative officials that 
In addition, the varsity team, California. energy consumption by 40 to .55 bill would also ban all pop top ~ans. the rising figures might indicate manned by Maniace and Chris de In two weeks, the team will go to percent in the beverage industry, Anyone wishing to express an that Notre Dame could be pricing Angeli, won the Wayne State Butler University for a tournament. they said. opinion on . the prQPosed "bottle itself out of the middle class tournament in Indiana. In the near future are the district In conclusion, InPIRG's investi­bill" should write to Senator bracket of society. 
These were two of a string of qualifying tournament and the gation of the proposed legislation Robert Kovach, Indiana Senate, One administration offiCl:i-a-l good showings that the debate novice nationals. The team will shows that the real argument with Indianapolis, Indiana, 46204, -stated, "I don't think we're over­team bas posted over the year. send a delegation to each of these. the "bottle bill" is whether the Representative Robert DuComb or pricing ourselves. This is a private Maniace commented,''We're doing "We've done a lot of work," environmental benefits are worth Representative Richard Bodine, university. We don't have to worry much better this year than last. Maniace concluded. "And it looks . the economic consequences. _ · Indiana House of Representatives,· about being available as much as 
'We're having a gr~at vear." like it's .{!aying off/' · "The~e economic consequences Indianapolis, Indiana, 46204. public sch~ls." · 

,r 
,
, We take off~ and put on 
, 


' lots ofextras everywhere we fly.
' 
' 
Whenever you take off on Continental, we'll On our spacious, wide-look 727's you can put take off 28% from the cost of a regular round­on your headset and enjoy the free stereo trip Coach ticket to all our mainland cities with entertainment. There's overhead storage plus our Economy Excursion Fare. It's a great a middle seat in Coach and Ecqnomy that way to keep your money in your pocket. folds down when unoccupied so you can relax or 
Then sit back and watch Continental put spread out the books. on a show. Call Continental or your Travel Agent and We've put the Pub on our wide-bodied ask for our 28% Economy Excursion Fare. DC -tO's, with electronic Pub Pong games and free Continental will provide information regarding specifieflights and number of se~tts available. Purchase your ticket at least 14 days prior to departure and stay popcorn. Plus exclusive specially condensed 7 to 30 days. Our 28% discount applies until May 31, 1977. Reduced savings after May 31,1977 are subiectto CAB approvaL Fares and savings subject double feature films, old-time newsreels and your to change without notice. The Coach Pub is available on all Continental DC·IO's excluding Hawaii through-service. 
favorite animated cartoons. You can also put on the feedbag for only a dollar with our 
We really move our tail for you.
Good Times Snacks. 
The Proud Bird with the Golden Tail. 
..... " ·,., -~:0 I •" • 0. • & • ....' ..'· -'. ......•
· 

·.·.......:;...· .......~ ... . , 1 ~ ..,_.,,._1_1 .f I 1,1.1 I I' 1.1.1 I. I If" I tl t If 1:• f,t J .II I I· t I I .It" Iff 1 f' t t' I 
------~----­
Tuesday, March 1, 1977 the observer 7_ 
McKillen heads for ND victory mark 
by Gregory Solman commented, "Pat is certainly one calibre of athlete that can do it, but drawing power that Notre Dame spor!.'' commented McKillen, Sports Writer of the best wrestlers ever to go to it will be extremely tough." has." "though -1 musl admit the fans we 
The first thing to greet any this school." Working his way towards the However, it does perplex do hav~_ are di~I:tar4." person wanting to enter the wrestl­That he is--or inevitably will climax of the season, McKillen McKillen that there is not a more ing room at the ACC are two gold be--the winningest wrestler is un­runs two miles a day, attends the vested interest in the sport here at As for next year, McKillen has plates that read "Dave Boyer deniable, and McKillen is under­regular practice that often lasts Notre Dame. set his goal at twenty-five wins, not Wrestling Room." However, after standably looking forward to mark­three or more hours, .and does "With the great diversity in the at all unreasonable for someone the Irish Wrestling Team's Mid­ing the record books and "getting some suplementary weight lifting. student body, many of them whose past record is as solid as the west Regional Meet on March 4, it over with." With a full year This year he has wrestled more in coming from great wrestling states gold plate soon to be inscribed with the maintenance crew at the ACC ahead of him, and a brilliant start the weight class above him, but has like Ohio, I'm realty quite surprised the words, "Pat McKillen may well have to take down those behind him, it appears as if there is decided to go down to the 142 that there isn't n1ore interest in the Wrestling Room." gold markers and replace them all the time in the world. pound class for the regionals. with new ones. No one is more McKillen started out this year To reach this goal, he must lose 
Notre Dame swimmers sink 
aware of this fact than the man inauspiciously with two losses at twelve pounds--a formidable task whom the new gold plates will the Indiana State Tournament. for most people, but· a common by Jady Byrnes & leighTanakan with a record setting time of 2:17.0, honor, Pat McKillen. With two However, he has gelled to compile occurrence among the wrestling Sports Writers swimmers Paul Messe and Gordon more victories under his belt, he a fine season record, with the clan. McKillen himself will .lose Drake demonstrated Notre Dame's will become the winningest possibility of wrestling four or five four to five pounds of water per Illinois State challenged the strength by taking second and wrestler in Notre Dame history. more matches in the Regional practice, but has limited his Notre Dame swim team last Friday thifd. Hesse's and Drake's times 
Pat McKillen's season record Meet, the last one of the year. weight-losing activity to ten or at Rockne Memorial Pool for the of 2:21.0 and 2:22.0, respectively, now stands at 21-4-1, and his 57 McKillen's hopes, however, extend twelve pounds for a match. This is final dual meet of the season. marked their personal records for all-time career wins put him just past the Regionals, and he and a far cry from his high school days, although the final score of 58-55 the season in this event. one away from Dave Boyer's mark some of his teammates have NCAA when McKillen was known to lose records a loss for Notre Dame, their Notre Dame excelled in the SO set just last year. McKillen also hopes in mind. as must as twenty to twenty-five seventh, it does not do justice to yard freestyle as Matt Dalton and holds the individual school record "I think the epitome of college pounds to make a weight class. He the individual performances of the Scott Jessup took first and second for the most takedowns in a season wrestling," commented McKillen, weight is a very important factor swimmers. respectively with times of 0:22.6 with his 57 this year. Quite a "is to be selected as an honorable for him, however, as he relies on Freshman Bill Swift's times of and 0:22.7, equalling their season's phenomenal record for a junior mention All-American, and to his blazing speed and exceptional 10:49.1 and 5:13.2 in the 1000 and best. wrestler in the extremely competi­finish in the top six of the balance, not bulk, to win matches. 500 yard freestyle races captured Ed Fitzsimons, who normally tive 142 pound weight class. NCAA's." Each of these goals "Opponents can never really lay second · place for Notre Dame, swims in the SO yard freestyle, saw 
Many words and phrases could McKillen accomplished his fresh­their hands on him," commented marking his best times of the action instead in the 200 yard aptly describe the man who will man year. His sophomore year Coach Sepeta. "He's like a jack season in these events. Swift also freestyle event, in preparation for be going for his record-tying 58th knee problems forced his worst rabbit." set a new team record in the time his performance this weekend in career win at the regionals at season for Notre Dame (18-5-2), "My approach is to stand up. I'd trials on Sunday by swimming 1650 the Motor City Invitational. His Drake. One could say that he is and McKillen was not selected for much rather wrestle a match on my yards in 18:37.4. time of 1:49.1 secured third place simply a good co-captain, leading the NCAA's. He has bounced back feet," agreed McKillen. "There, I Notre Dame's Mark Chiles swam for the Irish. Fitzsimons also by example, and little concerned this year to be a prime candidate am really confident. I get a lot of his best times of the season in the showed his abilities by capturing with his own individual accom­for selection, either as one of the takedowns, and I minimize the 200 yard individual medley (2:08.4) second place in the 100 yard plishments. Similarly, McKillen six first-place finishers, or as one of possibility of being taken down and the 200 yard backstroke freestyle with a time of0:49.7. The could be described as a fiery the four athletes voted in by the myself.'' (2:04.3). The team of Chiles, Andy team of Fitzsimons, Hartye, competitor who admittedly ''hates coaches. One thing is for certain, Meanwhile, he is confident about Petro, Tom Hartye, and Doc Severyn and Jessup boosted Notre to lose,~· but has maintained a should he be selected, the going Irish wrestling, citing outstanding Severyn captured the 400 yard Dame's score by winning the 400 tremendous amount of integrity will be difficult. freshman and sophomores. "The medley relay with a time of 3:46.3 yard freestyle relay with a time of and character. ''His primary goal right now is to_ wrestling program at Notre Dame in the opening moments of Friday's 3:21.4. 
However, McKillen's career can take first place in the NCAA's," is on the upswing,'' said McKillen. meet. The Irish finished out their best be summarized by Irish added Coach Sepeta. "There's no "I'd say we have the potential to Although Dlinois State's Bob Loy season with the Motor City Invita­wrestling coach Ray Sepeta, who doubt in my mind that he is the build a powerhouse team with the captured the 200 _yard breaststroke tional in Detroit, March 3-5. 
.., 

WANTED The pride of the presidential suite.. 
JAY WILLIE Two need ride to Wisconsin for HEY GOOD LOOKIN' JUNIORS? 

Classified 
NOTICES spring break. The further north the THE YEARBOOK STILL WANTS Soolaimon, better. Call 3282 or 7951. YOUR FACE. LAST CHANCE TO Siva is back.

LOOKING FOR 0-C HOUSING MAKE APPOINTMENT. CALL V.M. SmithTHIS FALL?? 7:30 TONITE, LA­
2 giris need ride to Baton Rouge, 3557 from 9-5.
Ads

FORTUNE. 
La. for spring break. Share Tex.---------------expenses and driving. Call patty or Orange Turkey-I like tall Texans. Meet me at the
Accurate, fast typing. Mrs. Dono-Need ride to D.C. for break. Call
Anne 4-5427. 1 love to play with my little green Observatory tonight on snakes
ho. 232-0746. Hours: Bam to Bpm Cris 8941. 
---------------
car (it's Rubber isn't it???) Don't eyes. FOUR GIRLS NEED RIDES TO' worry, you're back in my good Mrs. White
Used Books. Book Bam 1 mile DAYTON, ANYONE? MY SIS­
DALLAS (OR AREA) WILL SPLIT graces!!!
north of Notre Dame.. 272-5520. TER'S PIPES HAVE FROZEN
UP, SHARE EXPENSES. PLEASE Sleeper Mr. Neff,
AND I HAVE TO BRING HER

~---------------CALL 4-4160, 4-5140, or 277-4511. Ronnie may be a throat, and Kitty
MATCHES!! CAN LEAVE FRI­

The person who pu~ in that last may be a throat, and Pepe may be aDAY AFTERNOON, MARCH 11.
Will teach you flute In your spare GA Tickets for Wisconsin series. personal is realy weird. Not just a throat. There really is no hope for
CALL"MAUREEN 6825 or 1715.

time. Call Beth 8112. March 4 and 5. Will pay anything!! little bit, a whole lot... Peter, but I am not a throat. My Call John 289-2542. test really didn't end up too much
Meet me in St. Louis? Need ride

Need Typing? Executary Inc. To the student who broke.-~ the longer than yours. I just used
back to N D after break. Call

Professional Typing Service. 85 Wanted: 2 tickets for s. F..call Quickee Bus Window...Your name bigger margins....
Maureen 6825 or 1715.

cents a page. 232-0898. after 5. 256-1341. has been turned in. You have until Wed. to make amends to the Social Dear Homespun Cavy, MORRISSEY LOAN FUND $20 Wanted: 4 hockey tickets tor Wis. Commission or we give your name You're our favorite sweet and
FOR SALE

-150. 1 day wait. 1 percent Mar. S, call after 5. (256-1341. to Roemer. innocent -You're the only one we interest. Due in 30 days. know!!Happy 19th!! Hope it's a
Telephoto Lens: 200 mm f3.5

Lafortune Basement M-F 11:15-Need ride to K.C. or Ks. area. Pat Collins and Tom Olson, ball.
Soligor T-4 with mount for Nikon,

12:15. share expens-es. Bill 6768. Happy Birthday!Here•s the per­Love YourChlls
Nikkormat. Includes sun shade sonal you both wanted. Do it upand Tiffen UV filter. $100. Can be 

Greyhound Bus to Chicago leaves Help! need ride to northern New big tonight!!! Book of Revelations is an esoteric
adapted to Canon, Minolta, Pentax

main circle every Friday at 5:45 Jersey (New York City area) for love, bio-psychologlcal treatise on Kun­
Olympus, etc. with a T-4 mount. 

pm. Call· Tom at 8338 for break. Call Mark 1200. Teresita dalini, i.e., the Holy Spirit. If
Price without Nikon mount: $90.

reservations and further info. ---------------interested call Michael Cecil 233-­
Call 1845. Ask for Tony.

Need ride to Fort Lauderdale Lyons B-ball teams -good luck to 7191. After 8pm. Califron ia StreetString Band for March Break. Anne 7478. both teams tonite. May both teams
For Sale: C.B. HyGain -High

hoedowns, parties, dances. Call come out smiling... Desperately needed: Rides to
Range I. Antenna Specialist's

288-7732. Get rich Quick!! !!Sell me 4 G.A. Lauderdale tor break. Please help.
Trunk Mount Antenna. $110.

San Fran tickets. Ray 1417. Lyons Rookies -Remember, re­Call Rosanne or Peg 4682.
Kevin 1958.

Why pay $10.00 for personalized, spect your elders tonite...not too astrological birth charts from im­1-felp us get to the beach!! !2 girls Audio top name much though. Get psyched and get Roomie and the rest of the six pack,
Outlet: stereo

personal computers? Detailed, need a ride to Ft. Lauderdale for ready to run!!! Foxanne, Adendid -Thanks for
equipment wholesale. Call 283-­

typed profisles -$5.00! Call Pat break. Call 7401 or 3725. Bigger and Shteldsy your tolerance, support, under­
1181.

7339. standing and gin. 1 couldn't have Earthquakes will hit if 1do,n't get 4 Happy first day of the month to one done it without you.
You need a SF ticket? I have one.

MOVING 0-C? MEETING TONITE San Fran tickets! Call Fred at and all .... Rabbit, Rabbit, Rabbit!! Love,
You got bucks? Dave 6864. 

7:30 LITTLE THEATRE, 287-2771. Babette. LAFORTUNE. To Brian (little Puke) and Dom
For Sale: Garrard automatic

Two girls need ride to Ft. Lauder­Munchkin: If Nixon & Agnew could do it in '72, 
turntable, call Mike 1907.

dale for spring break. Call 4-4291 Those gay fellows in 907 and 908 then Elliot and Garrabrant can do it FOR RENT or 4-4378. Flanner. Shower up freshmen!! in '77. Good Luck!!
68 Ambassador, 4d, automatic, 

P.S. Separately$$$. Gretchen, Jayne, and Jeannie.
power steering, and brakes, air,For rent next school year -9 month Need ride to Houston for Spring 61,000 miles, good condition. $450

lease two fumishe.d houses 4 break. $$. Dave 1765. Attention 12 year old girls: The ad layout person and the typist
or otter, call 6404 or 287-9410.

bedroom and 5 bedroom. Near N. D Dave Ciarlone is looking for his wonder exactly what did they do??? Off Street Parking Call: 234-2626. Need tix to San Fran game. Call second date. If interested, .call Martha 4-4819. 1409 and ask for BIRDDOG. Dave, Bill, Nancy, O.J., Chuck, TWO .BEDROOM HOUSE TO • ---------------Ann, Robin, Sue, Jodie, Virginia,
PERSONALS 

RENT. SUMMER AND OR -Ride needed to Ft. Lauderdale for 3 Teresa M. Bubbles, Maria, Maureen, Pete, SCHOOL YEAR. 1012 EDDY PI!Ople on March 11. Call 1130. Congrats on getting into North­Karen, .Junior Class Officers and
Omar Shariff drowned in drunken 

STREET. S120MO. PLUS UTILI­western and U of 1!!! I still owe you John -·· 
self pity. Desperately in need of 
' 
.

TIES. CALL OODlES HARRIS AT Wanted: 2 housemates for NO apt. a few drinks for it. Good luck on We did it!!
another drink at Ebenezer's bar

232-8563. 1 immediately, the other starting the rest. Thanks
and Grill. 

March 11. Call Dave or Steff, The Wild Bunch Nan 4 BEDROOMS, LIVING ROOM, 288-4113. 
Feeling depressed? N.D. -SMC

DINING ROOM, KITCHEN. Hotline 4-4311 open nights. D.I.M. is dulling. Hope you sleep Sandy: who says the foolishness UTILITIES PAID. $100 PER Is that the same Steff that had his well tonight!! stops at 20? This may be reality, MONTH. CALL OSCAR 233-1850. name up in lights at the Senior but our way is more fun. Here's
When is the next South Quad yo-yo

Bar??? tournament? Happy Birthday, Sharon (in Farley) hoping you experience on your Three bedroom house for rent ---------------love. B-day!! Mimeo.machine-fully automatic­
unfurnished. Fenced yard. Near Wanted: Ride to and from Dallas a secret admirer Pooch Memorial Hospital. Reasonable for for Spring Break. Split driving and 
never used -works perfectly -to 

married student. Quiet neighbor­expenses. Call Ben 288-7523. highest bidder, call 3342. Crashing KAP 37 words, see attached copy. 
hood. Call 232-9128. Live up to your name after Mai Tais Wanted: Two San Fran tickets. Pat R. Russell, and Shirley's?? Happy Talk Butler, Buon Com­Call John 1081 will pay$$$. Your backgammon Buddy pleanno!! In honor ofyour birthday
We would love to hear you play at 

LOST AND FOUND ----------------we ordered eight large pizzas for
the Nazz on Thursday night but we

Need ride to Ft. Lauderdale for Holmless: the three of us. w·ish you were
have to wash our hair.... The two most efficient typists .. 

SRSO calculator lost Wednesday In break. Monica 7870. Happy belated 21st birthday!!Wel­here to help us eat them. Celebrate the engineering building. I need it come to the world of legality!! your 20th wellS$$ desperatly to pass this term. Need 4 student or GA tickets for the gang Love,
Girls wanted for Fat wally's wet t-shirt contest. Call 277-0570 .. 

---------------
Reward. Call Tim, 287-3689. San Fran. Call Karen 6865. The Three Musketeers Chris, even if you can't spell very 
Found: NO class ring, class '78 Wanted: will trade Wis. hockey Peter "3E" Sweeney well, the Observer might could use Small nose, Kitty has admitted that she is
mate. Identify 4-4949. tixs for San Fran basketball tixs. you... you asked about a key to my heart. Mark 1154. can we go out, alone, and discuss
maybe just a little bit inferior, at

Lost at Campus View Apts: Fluffy it? ­
---------------
least since she lost the bet... But t don't know what made me type 
brown-and white dog, answers to Need 2 tickets for San Fran game. 'hat. maybe it was because some­who's ted kennedy 
being interior when you are as 

"Jamaica". Call Guts, 277-4365. Call 1234. superior as she is (?) doesn't last one hung up the phone ori me?? who ami too long... · just; dding anyway. It's time you Wanted: 1 Frisco ticket. Call3187. gol a lrttl~ grief... She's no fun, she fell right over 
w 

r 
the observer Tuesday, March 1, 1977
8 

Phelps: teacher and coach 
by Tom Powanda Sports Writer 
At Notre Dame, teachers are intimately involved in the commun­ication process as they interact with students individually and in groups. They are continually sending mes­sages to students and receiving the messages the students give back to them. Because communication is so central in teaching, to guide interaction effectively, teachers must be masters of the communica­tion process. They must be skilled at manipulating a student to per­form desirably in a variety of situations. 
The role of basketball coach Digger Phelps is. much the same. The ability for him to communicate the objectives which he wishes to teach is pertinent to both . the success of the team as well as himself. Even on the college level, the athlete looks to the coach for more than just. knowledge of the game. 
The phrase ."my coach says" does not necessarily refer to the 
· mechanics of the game but rather to all the lessons an athlete learns from his coach about how to handle feelings and situations. The coach can be a voice-guiding, teaching, offering opinions on the athlete's progress and assessing his value as a person. On the other hand, he can tear down and destroy an athlete emotionally to the point where his will to continue is lost and he quits as both a participant in the sport and in life. 
As does a teacher, the coach, in essence, holds a boy's future in his hands. An athlete's understanding of what the coach says becomes a part of him, blending with and modifying all oilier learning exper­iences he has had and will have for the rest of his life. 

A major role of a coach, in this .:ase Digger Phelps, does not take place on the couri. His job is one of manipulation, to get the people involved in the game to contribute positively to the cause. But how does one sustain an athlete's involvement in an event after he has reached a plateau in his career? 
For some schools this question need not be asked but at Notre Dame Phelps gets more than his share of exceptional athletes who have all experienced one of those inevitable pedormances. 

"It is difficult to face a challenge in sports," exclaims Phelps. "Goals should be set by the athlete for the individual yet the team concept should come first, to make everyone feel like a part of it, to belong. It is a tough task but the purpose is to give everyone an identity. Those are the motivating factors you go on." 
These goals and motivating fac­tors can cause problems. The direction of emotional energy must be in a constructive way. Phelps approaches a contest differently than most. "We really keep a loose atmosphere. We try to relax and don't try to get up tight about it as coaches and players so that we don't bum out before the contest even begins." Just before game time Phelps will call his team together to start to get into what they really have to concentrate on, the mental approach to the game. · Once again Phelps differs from many other coaches. Psychiatrists believe, as does Phelps along with 
other head mentors, that the mental preparedness is 90 percent of an athletic contest while the physical part of the game only consists of 10 percent. Why does Notre Dame then prepare for only about 10 minutes, the mental part of the game consisting of 90 percent yet can spend up to a week preparing for what seems to be a minor portion of the game, that is, the physicalpreparedness? Phelps explams. "The fO percent we are taiking about, the physical aspects of executing offenses and defenses as a unit, as a team, to get that 10 percent it takes more hours than it does for the other 90 percent the mental concept. That is the difference in the correlation of the two. The 'mental part is there, the ideas of winning are woven into a player. The other 10 percent YIJI are talking about requires the most time." 
Of course what' it takes in athletics is an integration of mental and physical functioning. Func­tioning is integrated within a particular competitive situation when both mental and physical processes are working together to accomplish a particular goal. Your feelings and thoughts have to be totally oriented toward, and con­centrating on, aiding. your actual physical pedormance. When an athlete pedorms to this high level of competency the results could be outstanding. For that matter however, most of us manage to integrate our mental and physical processes so infrequently that when we do, it is a peak experience 
a high. Athletics of course is very de­manding. To coach in sports takes 

Irish pucksters downed by Tech 
by Ted Robinson Sports Writer 
HOUGHTON, Ml -Fifty-nine saves is a lot of saves. John Peterson must have been. seeing stars after his pedormance Friday night at the Student Ice Arena in Houghton. 
"It didn't matter much because we didn't win the game," Peterson commented. 
The 59 saves made little .differ­ence to Peterson because Stu Younger managed to break through the Irish defense to score 
a breakaway goal with just 22 seconds left in the game to give Michigan Tech a 3-2 victory over Notre Dame and a split of their series. 
Just seven minutes earlier, it looked as if the Irish were going to sweep the Huskies after an incredi­ble 25-hour trip to Houghton Wednesday and Thursday. The 6-4 Irish victory Thursday night clinch­ed second place in the WCHA, and there was some fear of a Notre Dame letdown Friday night. 
Yet, Dan Byers' first goal of the season three minutes into the final period put the Irish f."•ead 2-1. Don Fairholm had carried the puck the length of the ice into the Tech zone. 
Whtle waiting for the other Irish players to establish their positions, Fairholm slid the puck towards Oark Hamilto!l who was cruising through the slot. Hamilton missed the pass, but Byet's took it on the fly, and from the right point drilled a 40-footer past Tech goalie Bruce 

_Horsch. 
lt was th~ rairholm-Hamilton combination which had given Notre Dame the first goal of the game midway through the first period. Fairholm was replacing Paul Clarke, who did not make the trip with a bruised thigh, on the power play, and the combination had clicked for two goals Thursday night. 
With Tech's Gord Salt off the ice for intederence, Hamilton took a pass in the slot from Jack Brown­schidle. Instead of shooting, Hamilton slid the puck through the slot to Fairholm, whose shot was too fast for Horsch to react to. The goal came at 11:32 and was Fairholm's third of the series. 

The Tech power play, which was 

0-8 Thursday night, finally cracked , th~ough to the scoring column two mtnutes later. Dave Joelson was left alone in front of the -net, and banged home a rebound of his own 
shot to tie the game. 
However, the play of the Irish 

penalty killers, spearheaded by 
Ray Johnson, Geoff Collier, Ted 
W eltzin and Allen Karsnia, was 
outstanding all weekend, allowing 
only that goal by Joelson in 14 Tech 
power-play attempts. 
"The play of our specialty teams 

was outstanding and won the game 
for us Thursday night,'' comment­
Irish coach Lefty Smith. "We 
scored two goals with our new 
power-play unit, and our penalty 
killers stopped T'.!ch on eight 
chances." 
After the first p~riod goals by 

Fairholm and Joelson, the teams 
were stymied by goaltenders 
Peterson and Horsch. The second 
period was especially spectacular 
for P~terson as he kept Tech off the 
board by stopping 26 shots. 
Byers' goal seemed to be the game-winner until the Irish settled into a defensive shell for the final 10 minutes. With six and a half minutes left Joelson started a three·on-one break into the Irish zone. Rather than passing, Joel son took the puck into the right faceoff 
circle  and  fired  a  low  bullet  
between Peterson's pads.  
Just when it seemed  as  if the  

game would move into overtime, Younger slipped between Brown­schidle and Dick Howe at the Notre Dame blue line, took a );lass from Doug Young, and beat Peterson on what would have been save number 60. 
Despite the loss, Peterson was chosen the game's top star with his career-high save total, and his rival goalie, Horsch, was chosen the game's second star with 34 saves. 
With a record of 19-9-2 and 40 points, the Irish have clinched second place in the WCHA. After the Wisconsin series next week­end, the WCHA playoffs will begin at the ACC March 9-10. 

Playoff tickets go on sale 
Notre Dame will host some 1977 

WCHA play-off games. Tickets for, 
any games that the Irish may host 
will go on sale beginning Tuesday, 
Mar. 1. 
The quarterfinal series will be 

played on Wednesday, Mar. 9 and 
Thursday, Mar. 10. The semifinal 
series would be played on Satur­
day, Mar. 12 and Sunday, Mar. 13. 
The final series would be played on 
Wednesday, Mar. 16 and Thurs­
day, Mar. 17. Face-off time for all . six games would be at 7:30 p.m. 
Tickets for each contest are $2 

apiece for students and $3 apiece 
for the public. These are the lowest 
prices allowed by the WCHA. 
Students are limited to one ticket 

apiece for their personal use. A 
student must present hi$ ID at time 
of purchase. A student may 
present four ID's for four tickets. 
Students should bring separate 

checks, one for each series, pay­
able to University of Notre Dame. 
Student season ticket holders 

will have first priority in purchas­
. ing play-off tickets. Students who present the face of their season coupon book with their ID card today, Mar. 1 from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. at the Ticket Windows on the second floor of the ACC will receive tickets in Sec. 8. 
All other Notre Dame and St. Mary's students may purchase play-off tickets beginning tomor­row, Mar. 2 from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. at the. Gate Ten ticket window of the ACC. Sale will last until the ticket supply is exhausted. 
If Notre Dame does not host the ·quarterfinals, semifinals and/or finals, tickets for unplayed games can be refunded by presenting the or mailing them to the Ticket Office at the Athletic and Convocation Center. 

Erratum 
In yeste ...ay's Observer, a name was omitted from the Bengal Bouts story. Chris McDonald, a Dillon Hall freshman, was a winner in the 125 pound weight division. 


a special individual. He must know himself and how he responds under stress. The good . coach must recognize his own strengths and weaknesses so that plans for games can be made with these in mind. 
Also he must be fleXible and must be able to react to many different kinds of individuals. He must take the time to discover the discriminative cues that tell him how the athlete is reacting to what he is saying and that allows him to anticipate the athlete's response to his praise and discipline. He must be able to recognize the different attention styles of the players and he must have the interpersonal tools for adjusting his instruction to these styles. 
Most of the mistakes that occur in coaching occur b~cause the coach is inflexible and unable to adjust to different situations. Socially we have reached a point where athletes now ··expect and even demand to be treated like individuals.. This individuality is rapidly becoming a way of life, a philosophy if you will. What this means is that the coach will get far more cooperation and respect by responding honestly to the indivi­dual than by treating everyone the same. 
These qualifications demand that a coach be a very special person -a "man for all seasons." Digger Phelps fits the role of a coach, but more than that he fits pedectly the 
· role of a teacher learning from the past while helping, molding and building for tlte futu.re. . 

Monte Towle 


Basketball Names 
Before this college basketball season comes to an end and everybody makes up their minds concerning All-American teams, let's consider what might have been had these elite teams been composed of names only. In keeping with this spirit, I J:Iave researched and compiled a list of appellations that can't help but Stir one's imagination. There's no guarantee that any of these basketball notables are able to pedorm "360" dunks, let alone dribble a basketball, but just imagine the hysterical reaction from the C_!Q..Wd should this team ever be introduced by P A announcer Jack Uoyd ·at the ACC. One stipulation ... nicknames are not among my "Fabulous 15," but for fun, I will list several at the end along with another special starting five that I'll tell you about in a moment. 
When selecting a coach of this team, I was tempted to hire Rollie Massimino of Villanova, but how could I possibly pass up Adrian Buoncristiani of Gonzaga College in the Big Sky Conference? Besides, that first name has nice implications for Notre Dame fans. 
In looking down my starting five, my first choice and Most Valuable Name award went to REDONIA DUCK, the 6-4 scoring star of Farleigh Dickenson. And when he isn't busy doing his thing go the disco beat, he can look for great things from Marietta's own MITCH MIRACLE, a six-foot sophomore guard. Another starter is BROOKS BOATWRIGHT who will certainly have his own boat upon graduation from the Naval Academy. Counted on to "settle" things when the going gets tough is LAWSON PILGRIM, the 6-5 freshman for Arkansas while teammates can look to South Carolina's KARLTON 
HILTON to find them hotel accommodations when needed. 
Right behind the starting five but bucking for star recognition are the second team players. When this team gets really hungry for a basket, they can look toward FLENOIL COOK uf New Mexico who always has the right recipe for a victory. His kitchen help will come from no her thanTexas Tech's KEITH KITCHENS, a 6-1 guard. If 
jit's cold outside, one bird thar refuses to head South is ROBIN PFLUGSATUPT of Central Missouri while Delaware's State's ALGEE LOVELACE and Houston's legitimate All-American candi­date OTIS BIRDSONG found out the second five. 
Not to be overlooked are the members of the Honorable Mention squad with laurels going out to the quintet of MATT COURAGE of William and Mary, SHERMAN PATTON, a floor general with Baylor, DREW HEAD of Oklahoma, the great NATE KATES of Bradley and MULIUFI HANNEMANN of Harvard. And how about a lineup that would include Ted Williams (Toledo), Gordon McRae (Adelphi) and Billy Grahm (Oklahoma)? For the sake of trivia, try guessing what schools these players play for (last names): Sparrow, Nixon, · Goodyear, Riddle, Claus, Holstein, Lively, Wilds and Cheeks. 
Nicknames are always a topic of jokes so why not include Bernard "Loony" Toone of Marquette, Bruce "Sky" King oflowa, Clyde "the Glide" Austin of N.C. State, Cedric "Cornbread" macwell of NC-Charlotte, hiw teammate Melvin "Bionics" Watkins, John "Blue" Board and Jerome "The Magician" Bell, both of Virginia State, Les "High Rise" Anderson of George Washington, Kevin "Big Fish" Bass of Iona and John "Ba Ba" Duren of Georgetown among several thousand others. 
Thanks to the assistence rendered by none other than the Grace 5-D pair of basketball experts, Kevin Nelson and John Reynolds, I nc;>w conclude this absurdity with an All-Cool starting five. Besides the requirement of an uncommon first or last name, it is important that these players symbolize the quality of coolness above and beyond the call of duty. The two guards would include Otis Birdsong of Houston and Winford Boynes of San Francisco, forwards Ulice Payne of Marquette and Marques Johnson 0f UCLA with the center being 
..._Roosevelt Bouie of Syracuse. ~ 







