

server 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's 
Tuesday, March 22, 19n
Vol. XI, No. 98 
ND to host civil rights ~onference 
The country's first major confer­tions and movements. Foreign Relations. ence on human rights under aca­Among those from abroad are demic auspices will be held April Ben Whittaker, from the Minority 
Issues to be covered in sessions at the University's Center for27-30 at Notre Dame. · Rights Group; Karl Vasak, director Continuing Education include
of the International Institute of
A. H. Robertson, former director minority rights and the self-deter­
Human Rights; Nigel S. Rodney,
of human rights in the Council of mination of peoples, monitoring
Amnesty International, and Ro­
Europe's secretariat and a pro­human rights violations, human
berta Cohen and Jerome J. Shes­
fessor of law at the University of rights and foreign assistance, and
tack of the International League for 
Paris, will deliver the annual Civil humanitarian intervention and
Human Rights.Rights Lectures as part of the intercession. About 20 personsinternational symposium, which is Dr. Ernst Benda, president of from Communist and Third World 
sponsored by the Law School's the Constitutional Court of the areas have been invited as dis­Center for Civil Rights. Robert­Feder;tl Republic of Germany, will cussants. son's first lecture on April 27 will deliver a special April 25 address in be a global assessment of the advance of the symposium. He will According to the director of the human rights situation and his speak on human rights and inter­Civil Rights Center, Dr. Donald P. second on April 29 will treat the national law under the West Kommers, the conference reflects 
Helsinki Agreement and human German Constitution. the fact that the Center's initial rights. emphasis on domestic civil rights
Also involved in the meeting are 
has been extended to includeRepresentatives of several inter­Rev. Joseph Gremillion, former activities in international humannational human rights organiza­secretary of the Pontifical Commis­rights.
tions will be part of the conference, sion on Justice and Peace in Rome as will several scholars in the field and currently a faculty fellow at The Center was founded with a and two U.S. congressmen--Indi­Notre Dame, and University presi­grant from the Ford Foundation in ana's Third District Representative dent, Fr. Theodore M. Hesburgh, 1973. Its main purposes are the John Brademas, the majority whip whose interest in human rights establishment of a civil and human in the House, and Donald M. stems his chairmanship of the rights research and documentation Fraser (D., Minn.), chairman of the Rockefeller Foundation and of the ~enter and the discursive explorat· House Foreign Affairs subcom­Overseas Development Council and · 1on of current civil and humar mittee on international organiza-his membership on the Council on rights issues. 
Mansfield awarded Laetare Medal 
Former Senc..te Majority Leader comes just a year after he an­of Montana in 1933 and 1934. He 
Mike Mansfield is the 95th recipi­nounced his retirement from the 
was a tenured professor of Latin ent of Notre Dame's Laetare Med­Senate after 34 years in Washing­American and Far Eastern historyal, according to a recent announce­ton, 15 as Senate majority leader. · at his alma mater when elected to 
ment. He is currently a member of a the 78th Congress in 1943 from the five-man Presidential commission
"Throughout a Congressional state's First District. 
sent earlier this week to Vietnam
career under seven presidents and After ten years in the House, he during the longest tenure of any and Laos to seek information on ran successfully for the Senate in some 2,500 Americans missing in
floor: leader in the upper chamber, 1953. Four years later, he was 
action in the Vietnam War.
Mr. Mansfield exhibited a style of appointed assistant majority whip
Mansfield was born in 1903 in

leadership as effective as it was and succeeded Lyndon B. Johnson 
understated,'' commented Fr. Greenwich Village, N.Y., the son of in 1961 as majority leader, a post 
Theodore M. Hesburgh, University Irish immigrant parents. With the he held until the current congressdeath of his mother, he was sent at convened last Jan. 3.
president. "He wrote a record of 
the age of three to live with an aunt
integrity as a public servant which When he announced his retire­is an example to those who would -and uncle in Montana. He lied ment, Senate observers noted the 
advance the common good in a about his age to enlist in the Navy modest manner and openness he 
legislative arena of competing in­at 14 and subsequently also saw brought to one of the most influ­terests," he added. service in both the U.S. Army and ential positions on the Hill, a style
Marine Corps. 
which contrasted with the arm­The Laetare Medal, which has He worked as a miner and twisting strategies of his predeces­
been awarded annually since 1883 mining engineer in Butte, Mont., sors. As one put it, Mansfieldto an outstanding American Catho­
between 1922 and 1930. He left 
transformed the Senate from ''Alic, is aJways announced on the the mines at the urging of his wife, docile body ruled by a senior
fourth Sunday of Lent, from which 
Maureen, who supported him 
oligarch to an asssertive body ofit derives its name. For the 
through high school and B.A. and coequaJs.''74-year-old Mansfield the award M.A. degrees from the Un;., . .,..c,itu 
Under Mansfield, the strangle­hold of the filibuster was broken, the majority leader's front-row desk was often given over to a committee chairman who wanted to steer a bill through floor debate, and younger members were en­couraged to sponsor innovative legislation. As one editorial writer commented, "Senator Mansfield's contribution was to welcome change and gently hurry it along." 
An early critic of Vietnam, Mansfield could not prevent deep­ening American involvement, but he helped build Congressional opposition to the war. He once told reporters he was proudest of the passage ofthe 18-year-old vote and of his role in the formation of Senate committees to investigate Watergate and the Central Intelli­gence Agency. 
Mansfield is only the third Laetare Medal recipient to have served in the House or Senate. Clare Booth Luce, who received the award in 1957, was a former congresswoman, and President John F.Kennedy, honored in 1961, had, like Mansfield, served both the House and Senate. 
The ·occasion for the presentation ofthe medal. first given as a means of bringing recognition to Catholics who had achieved distinction in their chosen fields, will be an­nounced later. 
Mike Mansfield is the 95th recipient of Notre Dame's most coveted award. 
Workmen climb trees and cut down branches in a valiant effort to keep dead branches from falling on students. [Photo by Kevin Walsh] 
Prime minister Gandhi 

to resign today 
NEW DELill, India [AP) -Prime Congress for Democracy, a Janata Minister Indira Gandhi, whose grip ally. on power seemed assured only a Desai was Mrs. Gandhi's deputy few months ago, will resign Tues­prime minister in 1969 when she day after losing her Parliament seat split the party in a power struggle 
in last week's Indian general with conservatives. He and other election, her spokesman said. conservatives formed the Opposi­
Opposition leaders began laying tion Congress, which merged with the foundation for a new govern­three other opposition groups last ment committed to democratic January to form the Janata. ideals, as late returns yesterday Desai was among the first op­indicated Mrs. Gandhi's Congress ponents of Mrs. Gandhi arrested party might lose its grip on under the state of emergency on Parliament for the first time since June 26, 1975. He was released last 
independence 30 years ago. Jan. 18, when she relaxed emer­
An opposition spokesman said gency regulations and announced the new government's first priority the new elections. would be the dismantling of auth­Ram, leader of India's 85-mil­oritarian system set up by Mrs. lion-strong Untouchables caste, Gandhi during the 21-month state was the senior member of the of emergency, which sparked a cabinet until he resigned last voter revolt that led to her downfall month to form the Congress for after 11 years in office. Democracy. Ram was re-elected to 
With 393 of the 542 seats in the Parliament from Bihar state, by lower house decided, the new more than 300,000 votes, one of the Janata Peoples party and its non­biggest margins of any candidate. 
Communist allies held 211, only 61 Desai won re-election, from Gujar­short of a majority, with 149 still to at state by only 21,000 votes. be decided. In Washington, State Depart­
The Congress party, which won ment officials said it was too early two-thirds of the seats in the 1971 to judge the effect of the voting on elections, had only 134 seats, while U.S.-Indian relations. The Janata 
the pro-Moscow Communists had manifesto pledges adherence to seven and independents and re­India's traditional policy of non­gional groups accounted for the alignment "free from any attach­rest. ment to any power bloc." 
Janata spokesman Surinder Mo­The chief architects of the emer­han said the opposition would be gency were among those defeated able to form a govermnent and at the polls. 
announce its choice for prime Mrs. Gandhi's controversial 30­minister by Thursday. year-o\d son Sanjay, considered 
Political sources said the most one of the major powers behind the likely candidates to succeed Mrs. emergency, lost his first try for Gandhi were the Janata chairman, Parliament. 81-year-old former Deputy Prime With Mrs. Gandhi no longer in Minister Morarji Desai. and former Parliament, the Congress party Agriculture Minister Jagjivan called a meeting for tomorrow to Ram, 68, chairman of the new elect a new party leader. 

.---------------------------------------------------------------------------------~---------------------------------~.. 
. Tuesday, March 22, 19n·
2 
the observer 
~----~----------------------­

~--News Briefs----. 
==================Nationm 
Mustangs, Cougars recalled 
DETROIT -Ford Motor Company announced yesterday the recall of more than one-half million of its 1968 and 1969 Ford Mustangs and Mercury Cougars with bucket seats because the back of the driver's seat could collapse. Ford said a bracket supporting the right-hand side of the seat may break, possibly causing the driver tc fall back. Replacement brackets may be obtained at local Ford dealers, Ford said. 

Tooth fairy after Carter 
TORONTO -President Jimmy Carter has been invited to join the Tooth .Fairy Society. A Canadian dentist who extended the invitation said he decided to write the President ·because Carter's famous toothy grin is a good advertisement for dental health. 



-On Campus Today----... 
12:15 pm  --mass, fr. griffin, Iafortune ballroom  
1-3 pm  --blood station,  volunteers from  zahm  and  badin,  
infirmary  

1:30pm --seminar, "practical quantitative stereology," by dr. stephen gehl, material science division, afgonne natl. lab, sponsored by dept. of metallurgical engineering, room 5 eng. bldg. 
--workshop, job search, sponsored by st. mary's student affairs, stapleton hall 
3:30pm --computer, cobol, room 115 computing ctr. 
4:30pm seminar, "parasitism without prejudice", by dr. william r. horsefall, univ. of illinois, sponsored by biology dept., room 278 galvin life science ctr. 
6:30 pm --film, "henry moore: sculptor, man of form," howard hall 
7,9,11 pm --film, "sleeper", sponsored by dept. of civil engineering, eng. aud., $1 
--seminar, "parasitism without prejudice," by dr. william r. horsetail, univ. of illinois, sponsored by biology dept., room 278 galvin life science ctr. 
7:40pm --lecture, "careers in administration," sponsored by phi sigma alpha and dept. of gov. and int. stud. hayes-healy aud. 
7:30 pm --meeting, charismatic eucharistic prayer meeting, log chapel 
8 pm --lecture, "the family and government policy," by prof. wilfried dumon, visiting prof. of sociology from univ. of lourain, belgium, sponsored by dept. of sociology,room 124 hayes-healy ctr. 
8:15pm --lecture, land of israel series by prof. arnold band, program in COplparative lit.,, ucla, sponsored by theology dept., memorial lib. aud. 

Brezhnev: Human rights issue· hurts American-Soviet relations 
MOSCOW [AP] -Soviet leader 'Leonid I. Brezhnev said yesterday that progress in relations with the United States was "unthinkable" as long as Washington criticizes human rights conditions in the Soviet Union. 
"Washington's claims, to teach others how to live, I believe, cannot be accepted by any sovereign state," Brezhnev said in a speech. 
The Soviet leader outlined a new Mideast proposal but suggested progress there and elsewhere could ' bog down because of the contro­versy over dissidents. 
His Mideast ·proposal included demilitarized zones "on both sides of the established borders," sta­tioning United Nations troops or 
Welding accident touches off 
tanker explosion 
CAMP LEJEUNE• N.C. (APJ ­Survivors of the shattered Pana­manian oil tanker Claude Conway said yesterday that a welding mishap blew the 43,000 ton vessel apart, killing the captain, the radio operator and eight other crew members. 
The U.S. Coast Guard said 28 crew members were rescued and eleven remained missing as search and rescue operations continued at the site, 120 miles southeast of this Marine base. 
No bodies were found by late afternoon, and there were no confirmed deaths. 
However, several of 18 injured survivors who were airlifted to a ' Navy hospital at this coastal U.S. Marine base said an explosion and fire ripped through the ship about 9 
a.m. Sunday, killing several of their shipmates instantly -includ­ing the radio operator. 
However, the first "May Day" was not sounded until a second vessel spotted the ship early yes­terday. 
"I was asleep and then 'Boom!' 
observers in the zones, and gradual 
withdrawal of Israeli troops to 1967 
boundaries -a greater concession 
of land than Israel has given any ·sign of apporving. Speaking five days before the 
arrival of U.S. Secretary of State 
Cyrus R. Vance, Brezhnev sug­
gested that American criticism was 
stalling otherwise "quite attain­
able" progress toward arms con­
trols and improved economic ties as 
well. 

Brezhnev said he wanted Amer­
ican-Soviet relations to be ''good, 
neighborly ones." 

"But -this requires a definite level of mutual understanding and at least a minimum of tact,'' he added. 
The Soviet leader said his Mid­east proposal called for guarantees of unrestricted shipping by Israel and other nations through the Suez . Canal and waters of either side of the Sinai peninsula once the state of war in the area is ended. 
"It goes without saying' that the rights of the Palestinian people should be insured, including their right to self-determination, to the creation of their own state," he said. 
need resumes in a hurry? 

I 


insly·prints 
the wiz of the printing biz! 
rag bond 

25 -81/2 X 11 $2.55 203 N. Main SoBend 289-697 
Brezhnev implied progress in areas of mutual interest could be stalled by what he defined as "outright attempts by official Am­erican bodies to interfere in the internal affairs of the Soviet U­nion." 
In his first public statement on the human rights issue since President Carter took office, Brezh nev said, "We will not tolerate interference in our internal affairs by anyone under any pretext. A normal development of relations on such a basis is of course unthink­able." 
The Carter administration has stressed its commitment to protec­tion of human rights in foreign countries Carter responded per­sonally to a letter from dissident Andrei D. Sakharov and met with exile dissident Vladimir Bukovsky at the White House. 
Brezhnev implied Western pow­ers were behind the recent assass­inations of Congolese President Marian Ngouabi and Lebanese leftist leader Kamal Jumblatt last week. The assassinations, he said, were the "latest example" of attempts by the West ''to disrupt the constructive international di­alogue." 
Special Mon.& T.~~s. Taco Dinner $.1.60 
~?)~ rw~rro lurs~)

\~ REST~AN7fft/,
')/ :J §h 


~~~~ 
·~­

11 a.m. to 11 p.m. 233-0385 526 Western Ave., South Bend 
... and I got under a table. Then the back of the ship broke off," 
1\riOMEN-:s-REFLECrTONDA~ said Guiseppe Alotta, a crew member treated for burns and abrasions. t all Sunday , March 27 if 
Alotta said welding repairs were 
t ~ t
underway when sparks apparently touched off gas fumes deep in the 
t 2:30pm through supper I
tanker's belly. 

1~ Cost: $1.50. There are a few places left. 'f 
Cavity preventative found in saliva fSign up at Cgmpus Ministry_Office, 103 LibrorA 
STONYBROOK, N.Y. [AP] -A dental researcher said here yester­day he has isolated a substance in. saliva that protects teeth against the formation of cavities. 
The discovery by Dr. Israel Kleinberg suggests a new and natural approach to the control and prevention of cavities "might be within reach," said an announce­ment from the State University of New York. 
The substance has been named Sialin. It is a peptide, a small molecule containing amino acids, the basic material of life. 
"The approach is quite simple," Kleinberg said, "and, if correct, it raises the interesting possibility that the use of Sialin and fluoride might result in caries cavities becoming a minor disease." 
Kleinberg and his coworkers have synthesized the substance in the laboratory so it can be com­mercially produced. 
''We now have to find the most appropriate vehicle for raising the level of Sialin in the saliva,'' the researcher said. "The possibilities include a rinse, chewing gum, toothpaste or candies since Silalin takes care of the sugar porblem." 
Clinical trials to prove safety and effectiveness would require about five years, Kleinberg said, al­though the anti-acid properties of the substance could be proved 
sooner. Kleinberg's work was reported to a closed workshop on the microbial aspects of dental cavities 
held last June by the National Institute of Dental Research and ws published in Microbioloby Ab­stracts. 
The major factor in tooth decay is plaque -bacterial deposits that continually form on teeth and act on sugar and certain carbohydrates to make acid. The acid eats away at tooth enamel. 
!'Basically, Sialin is a small molecule called a peptide compri­
sed of only a few amino acids," Kleinberg said. "It is a component of saliva that counteracts the acid produced by the bacteria in the mouth, the culprit in tooth decay." 
The substance is the .body's mechanism to protect the teeth, but Kieinberg said it is overwhelmed by an excess of sugar in the diet. 
"Researchers have known for a long time that something in saliva gives protection against caries,'' he said. "our research was methodical and progressive. We developed disease. 
Kleinberg, chairman of the de­partment of oral biology and path­ology at the School of Dental Medicine, said the peptide acts by entering the bacterial cells where 
. at least one of its amino acids works to divert the plaque acid into other substances and produces a base, which counteracts the acid. 
r~The Observerl 
~ 

Night Editor: Paul Schappler Asst. Night Editor: Bill Rivard layout Staff: Cindy McKie! ,Editorial layout: Maureen 
, Flynn Sports layout: Paul Steven­son, Bob Keen, Frank LaGrotta Typists: Karen Chiames, Stephanie Urillo, Mel Celeste Night Controller: Donald Roos Day Editor: Mary Pat Tarpey Copy Reader: Barb Lang-henry 
techniques never used before and 1 Ad layout: Pat Russell five years ago we isolated the , ~hotographer: Kevin Walsh ) substance we were looking for. We then spent the next five years The Observer is publ~shed Monday 
learning to understand how Sialin through Friday and weekly during works." the summer sess1on, except during Because Sialin would work, even the exam and vacation periods The 
. . Observer rs publrshed by students of 
~n the pres~ece of sugar, tt.could be the University of Notre Dame and mtroduced mto the mouth m gumor St. Mary's College. Subscriptions even candy. may be purchased for $20 per year "You could have your cake and ($10 per semester) from The Obser­eat it too," Kleinberg said. ver, Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana And because plaque also is 46556 Second class postage pard, 
. . Notre Dame, lnd1ana 46556 Important m the development of The Observ!'r is a membt>r of the gum disease, the Sialin could help Assocrated Press All reproductron prevent or control this widespread ·:~ righh art> rest>rved 
--~---~~._.~~~~~~~~.-..-,~ 
GAME 
NOW OPEN 
Hickory ~ti. 
Only 
• 
PINBA'.l 

• 
FOOSBALL 


COLLEGE DAY 
SUNDAY 
Show college ID & get $1.00 off 16" Family size Pizza 
and 

31 N. AT DARDEN RD. "Where Piua is Always in Good Taste!" 
-,·• .J:..i..;._:.~~-·..._ , • ., -, > •• , • .. •••· • ~ ~,, ::?::.:~..-..: .._. ~ t"a't • .._•••.,.......~--.· ......,.•• io't'to.'IO•'t: • ··~"'-'\'\·.,:.y"·'>''•.'lo'!o'~JI,-,.·..-.;••t ..·.:.-.....~..:..·,.-,._.,.lo',.:<o.-......,. !o.'·O....:\_"''t.'t>:l>:t "'-'~~-.:\ ·~-..-,..-,.~
'-··----·----... o""·-----·•~\:\.._,~ .... ~ < _ .... " • • • ---• • ~.-y---·-Y·--··-~ .:\'...'l.:·o;...... ·'·\:~ ..........-,.\:..................~.... :r.'\.-....-.;~o: ......:~.~....~...li.~........l<...lt,lo,~:•.)>.•.••"'-.......~"'·""·"'"'......~......~..,......~......,~ .~ ...... < ..
... 
Tuesday, March 1:1, 1977 the observer 
Mock Stock Market now open for business 
by Kathleen ConneUy 

The Mock Stock Market opened for business at 10 a.m. yesterday in the lobby of the Business Admin­istration building. 
Now in its fifth year, the Mock 
Stock Market offers any student the 
~pportunity to get the feel of the market without the financial risks. 
In this simulation game a student 
may buy one account valued at $10,000 for one dollar, or three accounts, also worth $10,000 each, for two dollars. The student may purchase stock from the New York or the American exchanges. 
Since there are no counselors or brokers provided in the transaction center, Co-chairman Dan Bishop suggests the investor buy a Wall Street Journal to study trends and current prices on the exchange. 


Gains and losses are determined by the behavior of the exchange in New York. Stock market figures are t'eceived daily from a teletype Business Administration building. the trustees. The members invest 
The finance club is sponsoring this money in actual stock and the market. There are SO of the maintain a portfolio of their invest-approximately 70 club members ments. The club also has a finance involved with the market. This is forum which secures speakers on one of the club's three major business and finance. The club 
-activities. offers practical experience for The club also has an investment finance majors in the business fund of $10,000 allotted to them b~ college, Bishop noted. 
machine located on the second floor •""11-,..~..~-A-,.."''lf-,....-(1..~-'IA-,.."''L--""'..... 

of the Hayes-H~~ __ building~ 
Although the market is a simula­tion game there is an opportunity to make money. At the end of the simulation period, April 21, the investor with the highest capital appreciation (the student who has made the most moneyt receives a $100 prize donated b:f Thompson and McKinnon Securities, a local investment firm. 
A second prize of SSO, donated by the finance club, and a third 
prize  of  $25,  donated  by  St.  
Joseph's  Bank,  will  also  be  
awarded.  
Bishop  stated  that  the  Mock  

Stock Market offers education and realistic experience in investment. Hours for the market are 10 a.m. to 3 p.m., Monday through Friday, and it -~_located in t_!te lobby of t~e 
Law students to argue case before US Supreme court 
A rare opportunity to argue a 
case before the United States 
Supreme Court has been given to 
law students and faculty invoived 
in Notre Dame's Appellate Advo­
cacy Program. The case to be 
argued involves a 1974 theft charge 
in Fort Wayne. 
One of only a few schools in the 
nation permitting students to do 
clinical work at the appellate level, 
Notre Dame students prepare 
written briefs and argue the oral 
appeals before the U.S. Court of 
Appeals for the Seventh Circuit in 
Chicago. The program was estab­
lished in 1972 and is under the 
direction of Law Professors Joseph 
P. Bauer and Charles Crutchfield. When a conviction in the current 
,case was upheld by the Seventh Circuit, Notre Dame counselors filed a petition for a writ of certiorari with the Supreme Court on behalf of their client. Although records indicate that fewer than one percent of these petitions are granted, the nation's highest court agreed further consideration was warranted in this case. 
The case involved a client who was brought to trial on a theft charge but because of a defect in the charging information, the first trial was terminated immediately prior to the verdict stage. The client was then indicted, tried for a second time, and convicted. The David T. Link, dean of the Notre 
court-appointed counselors said the Dame Law School, described the second trial constituted double unique appellate program as evi­jeopardy and violated his rights dence of the University's effort to under the Fifth Amendment. provide the most complete exper­
The brief in this case was-written iential education in advocacy skills. by a team of four professors and While many law schools, including two second-year law students at Notre Dame, have. legal aid pro­Notre Dame. Assisting faculty grams which allow students to work members Conrad Kellenberg, in neighborhood law offices and to Fernand N. Dutile, Bauer and practice in trial courts, the appell­Crutchfield, were Frederick Daniel ate program is limited to a small and John Van Gessel. number of schools. 
O~bu~sman sponsors ()pe~ation Brainstorm 
Oper_ation Brainstorm; an at­Rules and entry blanks will be tempt to solicit ideas for the distributed today through the mail improvement of campus life, be­-to all undergraduates and entry gins today and runs until midnight, forms for faculty and graduate Thursday, March 31. The contest is students are attached to posters in being sponsored by the Ombuds­areas near faculty offices. Forms man Service. are also available in the Ombuds­
The contestant with the most man Office on. the second floor original, practical and usable sug­LaFortune. gestion to improve campus life in three areas --social, service and All completed forms may be policy --.will be awarded . fifty 
placed iri any of the boxes located dollars. A twenty dollar gift certif­
in the dining halls, LaFortune and icate from the Boar's Head rest­
the Ombudsman office. Faculty aurant will be given to the author of and graduate students may mail the best idea in each of the three 
their completed pre-addressed categories. forms through campus mail. 
ND-SMC SENIOR CLASS PRESENTS 
A TIME TO REMEMBER Senior Formal '77 
Friday, ApriI 15 

Grand Ballroom Conrad Hilton Hotel, Chicago, Ill BIDS GO ON SALE WEDNESDAY, MARCH 23 IN LA FORTUNE BALLROOM AND LE MANS-LOBBY 2-4pm 
COST $35 plus Transportation $10 Deposit Required Remainder Due By April 7 



*The Observer 
EDITORIAl BOARDan independent student newspaper serving notre· dame and st. mary's 

Marti Hogan Editor-in-Chief Martha Fanning Managing Editor 
The Observer is published by students of the University Bob Brink Asst. Managing Ed. of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. It does not Kathy Mills Executive Editor necessarily reflect the policies of either institution. The Maureen Flynn Editorial Editor news is reported as accurately and as objectively as Barb Breitenstein Exec. News Editor possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of Tom Byrne Campus Editor the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions and letters Jean Powley St. Mary's Editor are the views of their authors. Column space is available to Katie Kerwin News Editor all members of the community, and letters are encouraged Paul Stevenson Sports Editor to promote the free expression of varying opinions on Pat Cole Special Projects Ed. campus. David O'Keefe Features Editor 
BoxQ Business Manager Su_e Quigley Notre Dame Advertising Manager Steve Bonomo Copy Editor Barb Langhenry
Ind. 46556 

Production Manager Karen Chiames Photo Editor Paul Clevenger 
Tuesday, March 22, 1977 

seriously, folks 
I Am a TV Camera 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiart bu c hwaI d 
I am a TV camera. your name in the newspaper any to be here? Don't they realize that 
My restless eye searches out the more. Television is the name of the I am not just a bystander but part of terrorists in the night, holding game and if I can put a terrorist or a the action? Don't they know that? hostages with guns and machetes kidnapper on the air I can fulfill a I am a TV camera. on the top floor of a building. I madman's fantasy overnight. I go into hospital rooms to watch helmeted police in flak I am a TV camera. interview the wounded. They have jackets clamber across roofs with I used to be very bulky and had tubes in their noses and in their their rifles at the ready. I try to to be placed on top of a truck. Now arms. Some can hardly speak. But pierce the painted windows looking one man can hold me on his it doesn't matter as long as I have for shadows of angry men who shoulder. I can go places other TV enough light. I do not linger long threaten to sent heads rolling cameras could never go before. because I am needed back at the through the streets if their harsh I can peer into corners, up into scene of the horror. Once again I demands are not met. windows, down dark alleys. I can look up at the floodlit building. The 
I am a TV camera. make terrorism come alive. I can people at home are getting rest­
I sit and watch as police cars with create theater in the streets. I can less. The people in the studios are 
their red lights twirling go flying transmit fear far beyond the prin­screaming at me. Where is the through the streets~ I see the ted word, beyond anything people action? Find the action! Don't just ambulances loading up the woun-. have ever seen before. I can do it stare at a glass wall! We're losing ded and go screaming off into the live and in color. our audience to the other stations! dark. I pick up the lonely I am a TV camera. I hate the screaming and the corespondents standing in the cold I wait for each act of the drama to shouting but it's all part of the 
waiting to report that nothing is unfold. There goes a shadow game. happening. across the window! A light has just I am a TV camera. I am a TV camera. I close in on been turned off! A light has just Who knows how long the siege 
the anguished faces of relatives been turned on! The police have would last ifl were not here? Who waiting fearfully for word of their brought a package into the buil­can predict what these men yelling loved ones. I search for tears. I ding! A hostage is running across their oaths of defiance would have look for heartbreak, for any kind of the grass or is it a member of the done if they'd heard I wasn't emotion. I seek out a police SWAT team? Sometimes they coming? Who knows how big a role official, a government spokesman, won't let me get close enough to I play in their plans to bring a city 
anyone who will say anything into see what is going on. How can I to its knees? my lens so I can transmit it to your photograph every detail of this Some people say I prolong the screen. Every time my red light nightmare when they keep me so agony. Others sit in their safe goes on, the crowds that always far away? Don't they know the living rooms enjoying every mo­
stand around me wave their arms people who planned this whole ment I am at the scene. I do not to get attention and hope their thing want me to be here? make moral judgments. I do not friends at home will see them at the Don't they know the people who question right or wrong. I am not scene. planned this whole thin~ want me here to save the innocent or punish 
I am a TV camera. the guilty. I am only here to watch 
I play an all-important role in any a great news story unfold. After act ofterror. Everyone wants to be all: famous and it isn't enough to get I am only a TV camera.
P.O. Box Q 
siqce he doesn't get the big breaks, standable. Five cents for the he should at least get the small. second cup is permissible. But
Thanks 

rm speaking of the latest perptra­fifteen cents for the second cup of 
tion of prejudice contrived by the coffee is an outrage, an injustice, 
authorities in the pay-cafeteria: enough to make a business major's 
for the Lift fifteen cents per refill on a cup of blood boil. coffee. -A call to arms -boycott! The Dear Editor: Coffee is to an American as milk masses deprived of their opiate is to a baby. They have taken the shall rebel.
I just want to thank the man who 
proverbial nipple from the students 
held me up through the ten minute mouth. The recent coffee-price Phill Shubert overtime at N.D. hockey game alarm has not fooled these educat­Colleen Kelley March 5th. This was in· section 9, ed bodies. Coffee still at wholesale Mary C. Fineran row 16, seat 11. I missed the rest of price is less than ten cents a cup. Rob Hurley the game because everyone was Allowing for overhead then, coffee Barb Heck standing up. I'm not tall enough should not be more than twelve and TonyZipplesince I'm only 9. All I know is that one half cents per cup. Twenty [in Absentia: Karl Marx,he graduated from N.D. last year. 
cents for the first cup is under-Juan Valdez, Mrs. Olsen] So again, thank you. I really appreciated it. My mom said thanks too. 
opinio n !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
Dissent in the University 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii steve IegeoY~ 
Author's Prefatory Note: This article, the first part of which 
foUows, examines the ~ of Harry Edwards, Paul Nyden, and 
James Danehy within the context of social power and social class 
relationships in advanced capitalism. Becanse of length, the entire 
column cannot be printed at once. The final part wiU appear 
tomorrow. · 
It is with little surprise that I note reveals itself clearly through with­the infrequent treatment of the drawing support for the few incom­cases of Harry Edwards and Paul ing minority faculty, allowing few Nyden in the popular media. Yet minority faculty into tenured posi­both are of major interest to anyone tions, and dismissing those who seriously concerned with the real object to that kind of system. meaning of academic freedom. The case of Paul Nyden reveals Similar issues underlie the cases of more of the same. In his case, both men and are worthy of however, usual bureaucratic examination given recent develop­channels were ignored, and the ments in the ND-SMC community. power of the capitalist interests Edwards and Nyden have been, or that dominate universities was are in the process of being removed exposed a bit more nakedly. from their respective sociology Nyden's Marxist, pro-labor sociol­departments. ogy; as well as his organizing Harry Edwards, a black sociologist efforts among rank and file union­at the University of California, ists in mining and steel, and his Berkeley, former Black Panther membership in the Communist and organizer of the protest by Party, U.S.A., met with about as black athletes at the 1968 Summer much approval as Edwards' be­Olympic games, was recently re­liefs. However, the University of fused tenure recommendation by Pittsubrgh, where Nyden taught, his department. While the entire had a more simple formula for bureaucratic procedure of tenure dealing with his "unprofessional review has not been completed, it activities": they fired him. is fairly certain that the 1977-78 Moreover, in doing so, the Pitt academic year will be Edward's sociology department refused, and final one at Berkeley. apparently continues to refuse to 
Edwards' career at Berkeley has disclose all documents specifying been characterized by controvery charges against Nyden and detail­since its inception. He was a ing reasons for his dismissal. Nor graduate student at Cornell, active was a student defense committee in black student protest and al­allowed to present its case in ready the author of one book, when support of Nyden before the Pitt he received an appointment at Board of Trustees. Obviously a Berkeley in 1970 at the highest case of due process. non-tenured level of employment. Here again the crucial issue Controversy among the faculty revolves around social class domi­soon followed. nation. The University of Pitts­
The administration has, in the burgh is liberally sprinkled with past, made allegations that military-industrial interests, not­Edwards' scholarly and academic ably the Mellons. It is their performance has not met interests which are threatened by Berkeley's standards. One won­Nyden's teaching and organizing ders what those standards might work in the mining and steel be, what with three books and industries, some of the most dan­some fifty articles to his credit. His gerous areas of employment for the book Sociology of Sport is widely working class. Board Chairman adopted and is a pioneer work in William Rea is a director of Colt that area. His classes are in high Industries, producers of M-16's, demand and are heavily attended, grenade launchers, and military as Edwards is one of the handguns. the Council of Foreign university's more popular profes­Relations claims Pitt Chancellor sors. It seems quite difficult to Wesley Posvar as a member. The conclude that Edwards lacks pro­student committee names 14 other ductive and/or professional qual­trustees at Pitt as being in close ities. contact with the higher levels 
What is more likely is that within industrial firms, banks, or Edwards' political and racial be­the military, among them U.S. liefs have not met with approval at Steel, which owns one of the the powerful levels of the Berkeley largest non-union steel mills in the community. The pervasiveness of country. institutional racism, under the It is grossly apparent that en­control of business magnates and trenched political and business political chieftains such as the interests, ruling at Pittsburgh as Hearst family, is reflected in the they do at Berkeley as they do at 
low percentage of tenured black Notre Dame, have simply crushed faculty: Jess than one per cent. what for them is a political and The appointment of minorities at economic threat. Student support non-tenured levels is engineered in for Nyden being potentially dan­
such a way that it creates schisms gerous to such vested interests, the and suspicion among faculty, di­FBI has attempted to recruit a viding white against black. male student from Nyden's course in the against female and old against sociology of work to become an young. The character of elite rule informer. 
by Garry Trudeau 
Y64H, J/iiiiU, ~ THe NeXT FIK131/X OIAT; I'O < liKE 70 7RYA L£JSI/R£ >!'5SIR! 5/JIT{Y{ liE 8fJS6. IN.. ru6ET OH•• /illcm{, lfJlY/iSl!R, ON IT. StA+I£TH/N6 OF 71115 SIR! 
NATURE.. ::CLICK!~ 
'\ / 

Sincerely, Bobby Eglersld 2353llronwood Dr. Elkhart, Indiana 46514 
~ 

The Java ::> ca 
ffi 
z

Manifesto 0 
0 Dear Editor: c 
It's an outrage! Realizing of course, that the off-campus student may be a sub-human creature in the eyes of this institutinn; still 
MK. £f?lACIXIf{f; 
7111515 JENNER 
OOfll{MIINJ)­tcrJ(Je. )W C/ll.t£1)w, SIR? f 
Tuesday, March 22, 19n the observer 
'Olympics artist' Nieman opens local exhibit 
by Karen Sikonkl  people, the city, town or school.''  this admiration for the sports figure  in the air."  "The longer 1 painf,  Artists, Neiman said, constantly  
Staff Reporter  An in-depth knowledge of sports,  · does  not  extend  to  the  people  the  more  I  believe  in  spiritual  risk  rejection  by exposing  their  
Neiman feels, is not essential to his  Americans  choose  as  leaders.  values,"  Neiman  said.  As  evi­ feelings to the public.  "The only  

LeRoy  Neiman  wears  his  self- work.  "I know about as  much as  Pointing out that few U.S.  presi­ 
confidence on his lapel, a gold pin  any  sports  fan," · he  admitted.  dents  have  been  athletic  types,  
in the shape of the number one.  : "The  artist  has  to  know  about  Neiman estimated that an average  

"It's an assessment of myself," he · said. 
Neiman, best known as "the artist of the Olympics," appeared at Gallery 100 in Mishawaka where an exhibit of his work opened March 11. 
A champagne reception marked the first show of Neiman's paint­ings in this area. The artist discussed his attraction to sports as a dominant theme for his work. "I go for the spectacle, the pagean-. 
himself.'' He contrasted the of past chief executives would "openness" of sports with other produce a figure "about 5'9" and areas, such ·as politics. "In 160 pounds." 
sports," Neiman pointed out, The Gallery 100 exhibit, which "what you see is what is there. will continue until April 3, reveals Sports fans are more informed than Neiman's varied interests as well 
most people." as his talent. Sports predominate, 
Part of'Neiman's preoccupation pictured as team endeavors in with athletics is an interest in the works like "Alabama Handoff," superstars of sport. "The physi~al · and as portraits of individual stars part of the world is becoming so such as Stan Smith, Johnny Bench important," he observed. "Speed, and Henri Boucha. A central point strength, muscles. Those people of interest is "Olympiad," an 
try," Neiman said. "Sports have · (athletes) are becoming the original serigraph of the mural that quality of representing the heroes." However, he added that which Neiman did for the Montreal games. Gallery 100 is the exclusive 
dealer for Neiman's work in northern Indiana and southern Michigan, one of 34 Neiman deal­
Woman elected as director 
of Alumni Association 
The first woman to serve as a director of the Notre Dame Alumni Association will join five other recent winners of a nationwide election at spring meetings on the campus. 
Patricia Jo Perkovich, a 1973 graduate now in Los Angeles, was named winner of an at-large vacan­cy on the board, a position limited to students who graduated within the last five years. A planning specialist for the Internal Revenue Service, she is a director of the· 
~ Notre Dame Club of Los Angeles, chairman of the public relations · committee and a member of the alumni schools committee. Representing Region 1 for grad­uates in the Alaska, Washington, 
_ 
Oregon, Nevada and Northern 
California areas will be William H. 
Sherman, a 1949 graduate from 
San Rafael, Calif. He is a 
consultant to the golf course in­
dustry and a former president of 
the Notre Dame Club of San 
Francisco. 
William D. Reynolds, a 1954 
graduate from Chicago, was se­
lected to represent Region 6, the 
state of Dlinois. He !!Crves as vice 
president of the Independent Boiler 
and Tank Company and has been 
president of the Notre Dame Club 
of Chicago, director of the club's 
scholarship foundation and a mem­
ber of the advisory board to the 
alumni schools committee. 
Named winner in Region 8, 
Indiana and Kentucky, was James 
C. Hennessy, a 1951 graduate from 
Retrieve bicycles from storage 
Due to the start of spring, bicycles which were placed in storage may be picked u on Thursday from·2:30 p.m. to 4 p.m. and on Friday from 1 p.m. to 4 p.m. at Gate 14 of the football stadium. · "We would appreciate it if 
0 

students would pick up their bicy­cles now,'' Bob Ellis co­coordinator of the bike storage, 
• stated. 
Louisville. An insurance broker and a director of the Louisville Actors Theater, he is a past president and former director of the Notre Dame Club of Kentucky. 
Paul A. Hudak of Pittsburgh was named to represent Region 9 for graduates in Ohio and Western Pennsylvania. The 1951 graduate is employed as a real estate broker and has been active in Notre Dame, parent-teacher and church council organizations in his community. 
ers in the United States. The Michiana area contains "the high­est per capita concentration-of Neiman collectors in the country,'' according to Michael Nickol, presi­dent of the gallery. 
Neiman's subject matter is not limited to sports. The exhibit contains several portraits of famous Americans, including Abraham Lincoln and Louis Armstrong. Elephants, tigers, and other wild animals are also subjects. Some of Neiman's works convey the at­
mosphere of a · place, such asJ. Haskell Askew, a 1931 grad­"Toots Shot's Bar" and "Vegasuate from Oklahoma City, will Blackjack." One painting depicts represent graduates in Region 13, the production of an X-rated film. 
Oklahoma and Texas. He is "All art is religious," Neimanpresident of an oil and gas drilling commented. In art and in societyconsulting firm, active in Notre he sees a return of religious values ~me l!~cl civic organizations. 
which he described as "something 
From April1 through june 14, you can fly roundtrip from 
New York to Luxembourg for only $410. 
That's $89less than the youth fare you'd pay on anyother scheduled airline. (From Chicago you pay $458 and save $103.) All you have to do is be under the age of 24. 
There are no booking restrictions. And no skimping on meals or service. Because we give you the same service you'd get from other airlines, without the same high costs. So, if you're not flying Icelandic to Europe, you're spending more than YO!l have to. 
We1l give you the best deal. 
Save$89 on jet fare~ to Europe and book anytimeyouwant. 
~~~~---0CN------------l 
I 630 F'Jfth Ave., N. ~Y. 10020 · I I See your travel agent Or call toll free:(~) 555-1212. I I Please send information on alllcelandic's low-cost fares to Europe. I 
I Name I 
I I 
~~~ I 
I City State · Zip I 
Lf=~b!:: ~~::..nd.!'::~'::: ___________·_1 
Icelandic 
Lowest Jet fares to Europe of any scheduled airline. 
dence of these values he cited the thanks they get is human opinion . ., failure of the pornographic art Neiman's own work has required movement in New York. "Not one extensive travel, and he jokes that major artist came out of the in twenty years of watching sport­movement," he said. "I believe ing events, he has seen every that you have to paint the most stadium and arena in the country. elevated side of yourself. The "It's a difficult life," he admitted, spe~ator deserves it." "hut it's kept me young." 
n----------~---~~
Notre -Dame Conc-ert Band;_
1

I SPRING CONCERT 
t Wednesday, March 23 8:15 p.m. 
,, 

Athletic and Convocation Center 
tl' 

University of Notre Dame 
t Ad . . F il
t m1s~1~n ree ': 
"---~~~~~~---~--.-.-.~~~~~ 
· ADVERTISEMENT 

SPEED READING COURSE 
TO BE TAUGHT IN 
ELKHART/SOUTH BEND 
The United States Reading Lab is offering their famous speed reading course to a limited number of qualified people here in the Elkhart/South Bend area. The average person who completes this course can read 10 times faster, and with substantially improved comprehension and better conceptration. 
This famous course has taught many thousands of people to read over 1000 words per minute with the ability to understand and retain what they have read much more effectively. Average graduates can read most novels in less than one hour. 
> 
For complete details about this famous speed reading COUl'Se, be sure to attend one of the free one hour orientation lectures that have been scheduled. These lectures are open to the public, above age 13 (persons under 18 should be accompanied by a parent, if possible) and the course will be explained in complete detail, including dass schedules, instruction procedures and a tuition that is much less than similiar courses.-< 
These meetings will be held in Elk:art at the Y.M.Y.W.C.A. Complex, 200 East Jackson on Wednesday, March 23 at 6:30p.m. and again at 8:30p.m., Thursday, March 24 at 6:30p.m. and again at 8:30p.m., Friday, March 25 at 6:30p.m. and again at 8:30p.m., Saturday, March 26 at 10:30 a.m. and again at 1:30 p.m., Monday, March 28 at 6:30p.m. and again at 8:30 p.m. South Bend meetings will be held in Madeleva Classroom Building, Room 247, at St. Mary's College on Wednesday, March 23 at 6:30p.m. and again at 8:30p.m., Thursday, March 24 at6:30 p.m. and again at 8:30p.m. Friday, March 25 at 6:30p.m. and again at 8:30p.m. and TWO FINAL MEETING,S on Saturday, March 26 at 10:30 a.m. and again at 1:30 p.m. and Monday, March 28 at 6:30p.m. and again at 8:30 p.m. 
Classes are limited and class places will be filled on first come-first serve basis only. Be sure to attend the earliest meeting possible to insure a class place. Group rates are available upon request. "' 

Tuesday, March 22, 1977
the observer 

Marijuana does not harm brain 
CHICAGO [AP] -Heavy mari­juana smoking does not, as has previously been reported, produce structural changes in the brain or central nervous system, two separ­ate research studies have found. 
The March 21 issue of the 
Journal of the American Medical 
Association carries the two new 
reports, which are at odds with one 
published in 1971 in Lancet, a 
British medical journal. 

In the earlier study, researchers found evidence of atrophy, or wasting away,, of a portion of the brain of ten young men who were heavy marijuana users. 
That study, conducted by Dr. 
A. M. G. Campbell of Bristol Royal United Hospitals in Great Britain and his colleagues, was done with an X-ray technique involving injec­tion of air or gas to examine portions of the brain. 
The new studies involved a recently developed X-ray technique called computerized transaxial to­mography, in which the head is scanned by a bean of X-rays and no injection is required. 
One was conducted by Dr. Ben 
T. Co of the Washington University school of medicine, St. Louis, and Dr. Donald W. Goodwin of the University of Kansas school of medicine, Kansas City, Kan., and their colleagues. 
The other was carried out by a team of Harvard medical school researchers headed by Dr. John Kuehnle. 
In the first of the two studies, 12 young men who had smoked five or more marijuana cigarettes a day for at,Ieast five years were examined. 
In the Harvard study, 19 male heavy marijuana smokers from middle-to-upper-class socioecon­omic backgrounds were studied. They were kept in a hospital research ward so their behavior could be closely watched. They smoked five or more marujuana cigarettes obtained from federal sources daily for 21 days. 
Co and Goodwin said that "the only prudent conclusion to draw" from their study is that "young men with extensive exposure to cannabis marijuana over a number of years do not necessarily show evidence of cerebral atrophy." 
Both they and the Harvard group said it was possible that the marijuana smoked by the group in the 1971 study was not the same and may have been accounted for part of the difference in results. 
They also pointed out that the group in the 1971 study suffered fro~ nerve dama~e or impairment of their ability to function intellec­tually. 
The Harvard researchers said their subjects "May be more representative of the general pop­ulation of the heavy marijuana users" than those examined by Campbell. 
And they, too, said their study failed to demonstrate structut·al changes in the central nervous system of men who smoke mari­juana regularly and in rather heavy doses. 
Acareer in law­
without law school. 
What can you do with only a bachelor's degree? 
Now there is a way to bridge the g~p between an undergraduate education and a challenging. respon­sible career. The Lawyer's Assistant is able to do work traditionally done by lawyers. 
Three months of intensive training can give you the skills-the courses are taught by lawyers. You choose one of the seven courses offered-choose 1he city in which you want to work. 
Since 1970, The Institute for Paralegal Training has placed more than 1600 graduates in law firms. banks, and corporations in over 75 cities. 
If you are a ~enior of high academic standing and are mterested m a career as a Lawyer's Assistant. we'd like to meet you. 
Contact your placement office for an interview with our representative. 
We will visit your 9ampus on 
TUESDAY, MARCH 29 .. 
The Institute for Paralegal Training 
~35 South 17th Streot, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19103 (215) 732-6600 Operated by Para-Legal, Inc. 
• • • I 
AC-0035 
..-------------------------··----------· 

PRATI 

& WHITNEY 
AIRCRAFT GROUP 
REPRESENTATIVES WILL BE 
PUS 
MARCH 28, 1977 
to interview candidates 
Consult your Placement Office. for degree and field of study requirements 
PRATT&WHITNEY~~~~ AIRCRAFT GROUP~Vb~aes 
An Equal Opportunity Employer I Male & Female 
-~------~---~---­
,Fencers c_l~im Great Lakes Tourney 
by Paul Stevenson Sports Editor 
Notre Dame played host for the eleventh annual Great Lakes Fen­cing Tournament on March 11 and 12, and for the third consecutive year, the Irish fencers emerged victorious over 15 other competing schools. 
The Fighting Irish tallied 165 points while Wayne State, who finished second, chalked up 149 markers. Wisconsin-Parkside, Michigan-Dearborn and Case Wes­tern Reserve followed with 82, 68 and 67 points respectively to round out the top five. 
For the first time in Notre Dame history there was a repeat gold medal winner from last year's tournament. Tim Glass, the Irish epee captain, placed first against a strong epee pool. Glass def~ted Pete Rozsa of Oeveland State and Dave Bauman of Wisconsin-Park­side, his two nearest competitors, en route to his first place finish. Notre Dame teammate Ed Fellows ranked fifth at the conclusion of the epee competition. 
In sabre, Mike Sullivan attempt-e<!_ to repeat his golil 111~d~ pertormance from the1976 tourn­ed this year's top sabre honors. Sullivan followed Rabinovitch in second and Tim Mulligan finiShea . sixth for Notre Dame. 
Notre Dame's Pat Gerard fenced superbly to capture the top position in men's foil. The Irish foil specialist fought past rigid compe­tition by Carl Klutke and Paul Avsharian of Wayne State. Foil Captain Terry McConville aided the Irish with a fourth place finish in foil. 
The biggest surprise of the tournament was the performance of the women fencers. Wayne ·state, who was favored to win the women's field, was dethrowned by Notre Dame. Pacing the Irish attack were Kathy Valdiserri and Chris Marciniak who combined led Notre Dame into the finals. 
Valdiserri lost a fence off against Theresa Swenson of Wisconsin­Parkside to claim second place in women's foil. Marciniak captured fifth position to assist the Irish in winning the women's team title. 
1 The performance of the women's fencing team was very important, 1 as this was the first year in which 
*Observer 
Sports 
Gophers defeat Irish 
[eontlnued from page 8] -stood in line and took their defeat thought we coUld," oommented like men, and that's something Smith, "and I'm extremely proud tfrom which they will benefit later of the fact that the players didn't on in life." 
ament. However, Wayne State's Yuri Rabinovitch, who finished second to Sullivan last year, claim­

For the third consecutive year, the Irish fencers captured the Great Lakes Tournament. Tim Glass Mike Sullivan and Pat Gerard led Notre Dame on way to their viet~ ' 
the women's points were included The Irish fencers must now here at Notre Dame beginning with the men's in computing the prepare for the NCAA Fencing Friday, March 24 and running total score. Championships which will be held through Saturday, March 26. 
WCHA names All-American team 
SOUTH BEND, Ind. (AP) ­Western Collegiate Hockey Associ­atiott-champions Wisconsin had three players on the 1977 American Hockey Coaches Association All­American team announced Monday at an awards ceremony at the University of Notre Dame. 
They are goaltender Julian Bar­etta, a sophomore, with a 14-2 record and 3.11 goals-against aver­age; defenseman Craig Nowrich, a junior, who is a repeater from last year's All-American team, and forward Mike Eaves, a junior, the 
Badgers' team captain. Also on the Division I All-Ameri­can team aresenior forward Brian Walsh, second in WCHA scoring, 
both of Notre Dame, and junior wards, both of Gustavus Adolphus; forward Dave DeBol of Michigan, forward Bill Esse) and defenseman the WCHA scoring champion. Tom Anderson, both of Mankato; 
The Division II All-American forward Jeff Keys of St. Thomas, team includes forward Steve Han­and goalie Bob J anecyz of Chicago sen and defenseman Bruce Ed-State. 
Bookstore registration set 
Registration for the B"'kstore play. For information about .the Basketball Tournament must be tournament or to register for the completed before midnight April 1. annual event, contact Tim Bourret1 
Only the first 256 team applicant in 151 Morrissey Hall or call3470. will _be accepted for tournament 
Classified Ads 
NOTICES 

NEED TYPING? Executary Inc. Professional Typing Service. 85 cents a page. 232-0898 
Will teach you flute in your spare time. Call Beth 8112. 
Accurate, fast typing. Mrs. Donoho 232-0746. Hours. 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. 
Free intro lecture on the Transcen­dental Meditation Program Wed. 23, 7:30 p.m. O'Shag. 110. 
FOR RENT 

Two bedroom house to rent. Summer and-.,.r school year. 1012 Eddy Street. S120 mo. plus utilities. Call Oddies Harris at 232-8563. 
V2 bedrooms, living room, dining room, kitchen. Utilities paid. S100 per month. Call Oscar 233-1850. 
Rent my upstairs $40.00 per month. 
Call 233-1329. 
LOST AND FOUND 
One med-blue ski jacket with an inside pocket. Think lost in the vicinity of the bars. Call 4184 
S.M.C. Ziggy 
Lost. Black and Brown mixed Collie and Shepard. 8 mos. 60 lbs. 287-7740. 
WANTED 
Wanted: Married student couple Cone child okay) to live in, and be companions to 3 teen-age boys. Room and board in exchange. Would be required to cook family dinner, do light housework and do minor house repairs. Exchange references. Call 288-1411 or 291-1814. Ask for Joan. 
Super Summer Job -Part-time lifeguard needed to work with three female lifeguards at country club in memphis, Tennessee. Must be a male at least six feet tall, a good swimmer, and responsible. Call 
(901) 683-51 OJ or write P.O. Box 205 Lyons Hall, for interview. 
FOR SALE 
For Sale: Yamaha guitar FG160, new last June, seldom used, call Dick Hockmtln, Moreau 7735. 
PERSONALS 

California Street String Band for Hoedowns, Parties, dances. Call 288-7732. 
The Mock Stock Market is Here! 
10-3 Old Business Bldg. 

To Frank Coughlin, Ed Zajac, Dave Lewis (alias Peanutbutter Boys), we're still waiting by the pool. Where are you? Your luncheon buddies. 
Roll-Lady Gwen, Thanks for being around Mike 

WANT TO THANK THE GUY FROM CAVANAUGH WHO PAID FOR MY CAB FARE FROM THE BUS STATION SUNDAY NIGHT. 
•THANK YOU. APPRECIATE IT. BETH CONLEY. 
Dear Betsy, How do you surprise someone who knows you like a book? Do 1have a poker face? Happy Birthday 1 day late. Love, Bill 
Un Wuss' from Longboat Key uniteI 
, To the real Mike "Moon" Mullins, Drunken "Yave" from Delbarton says hi from Ft. Lauderdale and thanks for the IDs. 
MMN 

A great week. Thank you...for you.
T. 

Mr. Dwyer, Mr. Dwyer, I'm sorry 1 shined my light in your eyes. Pat O'Connell 
Welcome back, Doc, I caught cold over break. Kiddo 

Rumor has it Ruby Falls is a 
prostitute in Chattanooga. 
Mr. Sunburn says, 
Isn't she lovely! 

To the Ladies of 323 Kings Crown Inn, Thanks for the Hospitality. Love y'all, Greg 
To the Fla-Dee-Dah crew thanks for making our vacation the "Funnest" Love, The President Girls 
Dear Patty, Dolores. Erin, Ellen, and Murf, Cheer Cheer for burned lips, crappy shampoo, salted almonds, oreos, . Erin's snow techniques and a gold caddy. Thanks for a great ride. Love ya ali. Joe. 
P.S. I hope Ellie and the Eiectras get their act together. 

r 
Tuesday, March 22, 1977
the observer
8 
NC ends Irish· second season, 79-77 
with two seconds to play. Toby Knight, playing in his last tournament game, and Rich Branning, appearing in his first trouble, I think we may have been 
Notre Dame took control in the post-season action, led the Irish in their fourth consecutive unsuccessful NCAA second-round able to win." 
early going, taking the lead on a appearance. [Photo by john Calcutt] Notre Dame scored the first 
Toby Knight slam dunk off the After trading baskets. for four 77-75 advantage, their third lead of paced-the Irish attack with 22 points of the contest and never 
opening tip. After Carolina came minutes, Carolina took the lead at the game. points. Branning added 18, Wit-trailed. Behind 12 points from 
back to take a 4-2 advantage, the 52-SO on a John Kuester jumper. It Williams answered for the Irish Iiams 17 and Flowers 11. Knight Williams, 11 from Knight and 10 
Irish went on a 12-2 streak to move was only the Tar Heels' second as he picked up a loose ball and hit also pulled down 14 rebounds. from Flowers, the Irish built a 
out to an eight-point lead with 15 lead, and their first since the a 17-foot jumper to tie the game Ford led the way for Carolina 48-37 halftime advantage. Of Hof­
minutes remaining in the opening opening minute of play. with 28 seconds left, 77-77. with 29 markers. Mike O'Koren stra's 37 first half points, Laurel 
half. However, Notre Dame refused to Carolina then played for the final added 16 and Kuester added 14. and center John Irving combined 
The Tar Heels fought back to tie fold. The Irish then went on a shot. Ford took an off-balance While shooting only 44% from the for 27. 
the tilt at 26, before Notre Dame . streak of their own, outscoring jumper from the left side of the field for the game, the Tar Heels The Irish came out in the second 
took off on another streak, outscor-North Carolina 10-0 to move out to lane that fell off the front of the rim hit 89o/o of their free throws half to build their largest lead of 
ingtheACCchampions14-4totake a 60-52 lead with ten minutes to withtwosecondsremaining, but11e (17-19), including 17 for 17 in the the game at 56-39 and again at 
a 40-30 halftime advantage. play. was fouled on the play by Flowers. second half. 60-43. Hofstra reeled off eight
The half was different for the The Irish maintained their edge Ford calmly stepped to the line and "A lot of people didn't expect us straight points to close the gap to 
Irish in that it was freshman guard until they went into their four-cor-hit nothing but twine on both shots. to have any kind of a season," 60-51 with 12 minutes remaining. 
Rich Branning who provided the ner offense with 5:52 to play, Branning's desperation shot Phelps commented "But we had a Phelps then sent his team intoscoring punch with 12 points and holding a 70-65 margin. Unfortu-from halfcourt at the buzzer went good season and showed some­their four-comer offense. Frommore importantly, it was a 2-3 zone nately for Notre Dame, the offense off the rim, and Notre Dame's thing to people. We haven't any-that point on, it was just a matter of defense employed by the Irish to backfired as the Irish turned the season was over. thing to be ashamed of." 
making free throws and layups forhalt the explosive Carolina offense. ball over four times and had an "Anyway you want to look at it, Notre Dame had advanced to the the Irish.
It was one of very few times that attempted dunk by Knight blocked it came down to who had the ball semifinals by defeating Hofstra in. 
Hofstra made a final run at Notrethe Irish had played the defense all by Walter Davis as Carolina came last," Phelps said. "They got it, the opening round of the tourna-Dame behind Laurel, who scoredseason, and it only allowed the Tar back to tie the game 75-75 with 1:49 and they won." ment in Philadelphia. 
11 of the Dutchmen's last 17Heels to hit 41 o/o of their field goal remaining in the battle. "We played 39 minutes of great It wasn't a work of art, but for points. However, Hofstra could getattempts. The Irish stayed in their four-basketball tonight," he continued. Notre Dame it was good enough. 
no closer than five, 88-83.
The second half started the same corner offense, playing for a final "You can't expect to go an entire After committing 19 turnovers, 
as the first, as Knight stuffed the shot, but Davis stole a Bruce Flow-ball game against Carolina without allowing one player to score 35 "It was like a street fight," 
ball off the opening tip. Knight ers pass with 1:18 to play. Carolina turnovers, not with the pressure points against them and being Phelps commented. "We had them 
then stole an errant Carolina pass then went into their four-corner defense they play. Unfortunately, outrebounded for one of the few backed up in a corner and they 
and drove the length of the floor for offense to play for the last shot. ours just came at the wrong time." times all season, the Irish held on were going to fight up to the end. 
another slam dunk and Notre Dame Interestingly, Notre Dame then left The Irish turned the ball over 21 to gain a 90-83 decision over We didn't have this game won until 
had a 44-30 lead, their largest of their zone to play man-to-man times as compared to only eight for Hofstra in the first round of the the final buzzer. They have a fine 
the evening. defense. Duck Williams fouled the Tar Heels. NCAA Eastern Regional. basketball team, give them cred­
At that point, North Carolina Ford with 56 seconds remaining Notre Dame shot 75% from the "We didn't play well tonight, it." 
went on an 18-4 streak to tie the and Ford hit on both ends of a floor in the second half (15-20), and but we won," Phelps said following Notre Dame ended their season 
game at 48 with 15 minutes to play. one-and-one to give the Tar Heels a 67% in the ga~e (30-45). Knight the game. "All I know is that there with a record of 22-7. 
Gophers crush icers' playoff hopes 
by Gregory Solman Within six minutes, however, the series, 7-5. By the period's "It was simply unbeli~vable," "You have to take your hats off 
Sports Writer Irish had lost their lead, and the expiration, the Gophers comman­commented a jubilant Tom Vannelli to the Gophers,'' commented a 
Gophers never looked back. ded a 8-7 margin. after the game, "this is the biggest . disappointed Lefty Smith. "They 
It was more than a disappointing Seventeen seconds after the McClanahan picked up the Go­win I've ever been a part of." played against very difficult odds, lllss for the Irish hockey team to Walsh power play goal, Phil Ver­phers' first marker after 45 sec­The locker rooms after the game and they're a young club." end this season as they did ...it was chota struck with the Gophers' first onds. Steve Christoff then chipped were a study in contrast. In the Smith also took his hat off to his a nightmare. In a stunning upset goal when he whipped a low shot in with two goals, the first set up by Gophers', a jovial scene of college own players, who played clean Thursday, March 10, the Minneso­past John Peterson's stick side. It Don Michaletti and Tim Harrer, the hockey players that had hung_ on hockey in what was probably the ta Golden Gophers swept away all was Peterson's second game in two second by Michaletti alone. and taken a hard-fought victory most frustrating game of their ofthe Irish's hopes with a crushing nights, a move that Lefty Smith The Irish had an opportunity to with them; in the Irish locker room, lives. J 9-2 victory, erasing the four goal said he admittedly "second gues­gain back momentum and tie the stunned disbelief that such a good "I think we played as hard as I deficit they had earned the night sed" after the game was over. series early, when a Gopher player season would end this way. [continued on page 7] before and sending them into the Less than three minutes later, covered the puck in the crease with semi-finals. the Gophers cut the margin once his hands, giving Notre Dame a 
For Irish mentor Lefty Smith it again, when Tom Gorence and Rob penalty shot. Donny Fairholm was was more than a nightmare. "It is McClanahan set up Jim O'Neil, called upon to try his luck. probably the most disappointing who cruised down the middle Fair holm cruised in quickly, went loss of my coaching career," he unbothered to put the Gophers out left, and flipped a good shot high to commented after the game. And in front for the game. However, Joswiak's stick side. Joswiak for the players, especially the the team was still three goals down stopped the shot, ending what Seniors seeing their last ice-tim~ in in the series. could have been a turnaround play Irish uniforms, it was probably Two minutes later, the Gophers in the game. worse. tallied once again, this time on a "I really think it helped build us 
For the Gophers, it was an screened drive by Pete Hayak that up," commented Joswiak after the emotional and triumphant come­got by the log-jam that formed in contest, drenched with sweat from back victory, sparked by dogged front of John Peterson. a hard night's work. "I think the perserverance and some awfully After young goalie Joswiak had momentum in the game would have good goaltending by a young -made a flurry of fine saves, the changed right then." freshman named Paul Joswiak. Irish showed signs of life when The Irish continued to play 
From the outset of the game, it Keven Nugent and Dukie Walsh strong hockey through the middle was clear that this was not the set up Jack Brownshidle who of the period, with mounting same forechecking, snappy pas­boomed a hard slap shot up high pressure in the Minnesota end, and sing, Irish team that had so that eluded the grasp of Joswiak. good goaltending by Lenny Moher, soundly defeated the Gophers the That power play goal was to be the who had come on to replace a night before S-1. Similarly, the last of the Irish 1976-77 season. fatigued Peterson in the third Gopher team also looked different-­After Allen Karsnia went off on a period. more agressive and alert; and with penalty, the Gophers struck once The Irish luck ran out, however, a lot more pucks falling their way. again. After a good feed from at 8:42, when Tom Gorence fed Rob 
The Irish broke into an early lead linemate Joe Michaletti, Tom Van­McClanahan for an insurance goal, 
when a Clark Hamilton slap shot nelli cruised in and slipped it under and Steve Christoff finished a 
rebounded to Co-Captain Dukie Pe~ers.on as the period ended. brilliant Minnesota comeback with 
Walsh, who put the puck past a The, Irish opened the second a hat trick for the Gophers' ninth 
fallen·Paul Joswiak. period still ahead in the most goals goal. 







