-------------------~~---------------~-------­

The Observer 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's Vol. XI, No. 69 Monday, january 31, 1977 
Michigan Bill 
Drinking age may be raised 
by Cathy Nolan Senior Staff Reporter 

A bill to raise the drinking age was introduced in the Michigan state senate Jan. 25. The bill, if approved, will raise the legal drinking age to 19. 
Presently, any person 18 years or older may purchase and consume hard liquor, beer and wine in the state of Michigan. In 1972, the Michigan legislature originally voted to lower the legal drinking age from 21 to 18 years. 
The primary reason for the new bill, according to Senator DeSana, (of the eleventh senatorial district) the bill's principal sponsor is the abuse of alcohol in the Michigan high schools. 
Numerous complaints 

"We have had numerous com­plaints from high school teachers and principals of high school students drinking while in school," stated Terry Bronson, DeSana's aide. "Many high school students who are old enough to buy alcohol will go out during theirlunch hours and get drunk,'' Bronson commen­ted. 
High school administrators have reported instances of 18 year olds giving alcohol to 14 and 15 year old students. "There is no legal lever­age against 18 year olds giving it to younger students,'' Bronson said. 
The bill to raise the drinking age, introduced by DeSana, is co-spon­sored by 14 other Michigan state senators. Before the bill can be voted on by the senate, it must first be passed by the Commerce Com­mittee. The Committee will conduct public hearings before making any decision. 
"Anyone can testify at the hearings,'' Bronson stated. "Among the witnesses will be parents, teachers, students, night­club and bar owners and members of the liquor industries." 
A similar bill was introduced last September but was not acted upon by the senate. Public hearings were held, Bronson said, but there was not enough time allotted to get the bill through the committee and the senate. 
Since approving the 18 year old drinking bill in 1972, there has been an increase in auto accidents and fatalities attributed to drunk driving among high school stu­dents. This increase, Bronson ci­ted, is another factor behind the new bill. 
Official copies of the bill have not yet been distributed to the state senators. The senators will receive the bill within ten days to two weeks When asked why the Mich­igan legislature wanted to raise the drinking age, Senator Zollar (Ben­ton Harbor, Michigan) cited rea­sons similar to Bronson's. "When Michigan reduced the age to 18, statistics showed an increase in the number of people age 18 getting in trouble with car accidents and deaths." 
When asked if he would support the bill, Zollar stated he could make no formal committment until he had read the entire bill and carefully studied the issue. 
Opposition voiced 

32 states, including the District of Columbia, have 18 year old drinking age laws. In Minnesota, the legal drinking age, formerly 18, has been raised to 19 for hard liquor, beer and wine, "The rever­sal of the law in Minnesota has resulted in a noticeable decrease in auto accidents among high school kids as well as the flagrant abuse of liquor in the schools," Bronson commented. 
Greatest opposition to the bill comes from the liquor industry' Bronson stated. At the public hearings last September, both the License Beverage Association and the Distiller's Spirits Institution testified on behalf of the 18 drinking age. 


Several high school students under 18 also opposed the bill at the hearings, stating that they had been served at bars while under­age. These students commented that "ifthe law was not enforceable at 18, then it was unnecessary to raise it to 19.'' The owners of both Shula's and the White House, nightclubs in Niles, Michigan, were unavailable for comment on the issue. 
-The bill will not be voted on by the senate until it goes through the committee. The chance of the bill being passed by the senate are "excellent" according to Bronson. "we have 36 state senators in Michigan and all we need for approval is fifty percent plus one vote or approximately 20 affirma­tive votes," Bronson noted. "The bill has already been endorsed by 15 people, so I really think we will be able to obtain the other votes needed for passage," he added. The Michigan House of Repre­sentatives is also considering a bill to raise the drinking age to 21 but Bronson said "it is unlikely that such a measure woud be appro­ved." At Notre Dame, the bill, if approved, will affect primarily the freshmen class whose members range in age from 1 7 to 19, "I really think it is a. good idea to raise the drinking age because of the way high school kids misuse alcohol," said Jim Murray, a Notre Dame freshman and resident of Michi­gan. "If a student is mature enough, it doesn't really matter whether or not the law says 18 or 19 but unfortunately, a 'lot of high school kids just cannot handle it, so it would be better to raise the age," Murray continued. ­
"For most of the freshmen, the only place they can _go if they want to dance or just socialize with friends are the bars iu Michigan, Ann Patricoski, a Notre Dame freshman, commented. "If they raise the age to 19, a lot of students would have no place to go.'' 
Another student stated, "If they did raise the drinking age I think it would simply result in more kids 
[continued on page 2] 
Frigid weather forces University closing 
by Marian Ulicny Senior Staff Reporter 

A pre-dawn blizzard on Friday brought Notre Dame and most of Indiana to a temporary standstill. 
The decision to close the Univer­sity came at approximately 7:45 am. "One of the vice-presidents called and informed me of the weather conditions," Fr. James Burtchaell, University provost, sta­ted. Although classes and office hours were cancelled, "I asked the library to stay open," Burtchaell continued. "Of course, the dining hall people were here, and security was working very hard," he added. 
The Rockne Memorial remained open, but the Huddle closed early due to a lack of help. The ACC and the bookstore also remained closed. 
According to Burtchaell, "no­body can remember'' the last time severe weather forced the Univer­sity to close. Concerning the possi­bility of a class make-up day, he commented, "I don't know. • 
haven't thought of it yet." A shortage of milk was the main problem faced by the dining halls. According to Robert Smith, South Dining Hall manager, "The low milk supply was due to the fact that the State Police closed the roads and held up the milk truck, but everything else was okay." "Con­serve" signs were placed on the milk machines until the supply was replenished. The North Dining Hall staff did not expect the increased number of students at breakfast on Friday , morning. "With no classes, they all hit us very hard for continental breakfast,'' Laurence Aronson, North Dining Hall manager, stated. "We ran a little low on donuts, but it was not a food shortage. we just had an awful lot more people than we expected," he added. _ Neither dining hall experienced a noticeable shortage of help. "Most of our people, being as dedicated as they are, made it in to work. I was really proud of them," Aron­son noted. 

Duggan cites closing as rare 
by Cathy Cowhey The last class day will not have to be made up. nor will it affect spring 
Inclement weather, poor driving break in March, according Duggan. conditions, and cancellation of He added that he "couldn't classes at Notre Dame prompted imagine calling any more classes cancellation of St. Mary's classes off." primarily because of the great Friday. majority of resident students. 
Duggan indicated that if any prob­College President Dr. John Dug­lems arise, the decision on cancel­gan stated that he was "very lation will "based on consultation"reluctant and wasn't easily 'Crsuad­between Duggan and Notre Dameed" to cancel classes, "foP ot was Provost Fr. Burtchaell, unlike Fri­felt that enough people could get day's situation, decision when No­here. Those who couldn't, knew it' tr~ Dame cancelled classes beforeand probably wouldn't have at­St. ~ary's did so.
tempted it." Duggan also cited his reluctance to break a "record", Duggan cited St. Mar:-r·'s ample noting that Friday was "probably fuel supply and the recently updat­the first time in history that St. ed heating system as the reasons Mary's has cancelled classes." behind his predictions that St. 
Mary's will not have to cancel any more class days this semester. The college. which burns coal, "will have more than enough fuel. We're not the least bit worried ... as far as St. Mary's _goes " he said. 'However. the college is following recommendations of the St. Mary's energy committee to conserve energy by installing thermostats and insulation in school buildings. 
Friday's weather did prevent dailv deliveries of fresh produce. milk and dair~· products to the St. Mary's cafeteria. "I knew we had enough food in the housc to last thruu_~.~h Monday,· ·.,aid Food Ser­vil'l' Director Charlcs Flaim. "Wc 
ll·ontinued on page 71 

~o!lday, January 31,_!977
the observer 


-On Campus Today___,.,_ 
7pm  -basketball, main arena  nd  vs.  smc  women's  basketball,  ace  
9 pm  -the nazz, rebasement  x d elca mp,  michael tsu boda,  Iafortune  

Cold weather leaves 

1.5 million jobless 
More than 1.5 million persons were out of work as a cold wave continued through the weekend forcing the closing of factories and businesses and a curtailment of natural gas consumption. At least 45 deaths were blamed on the weather in the nation's eastern and midwestern states. 
Ohio reported the highest num­her of workers sent home when plants closed. The state Depart­ment of Community Development said yesterday one million persons, 25 percent of the state's work force' had been laid off because of the artie-like weather. 
Weather-related deaths from ex­posure, fires, heart attacks and carbon monoxide poisoning were reported in 10 states and 16 persons were missing in the ruin of a burned out hotel in Breckinridge, Minn. Workmen were trying to dig through the still smoking rubble. 
President Carter flew to Pitts­burgh yesterday to examine west­
Drinkin_g laws 

[continued &om page 1] using fake I.D~s. After all, it wouldn't be that hard for an 18 year old to find a 19 I.D." 
According to Bronson, any per­son who turns 18 prior to the date the bill becomes effective will still be eligible to buy and consume alcohol in Michigan. 
The Observer is published Monday through Friday and weekly during the summer session, except during the exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $20 per year ($10 per semester) from The Obser­ver, Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved 
COLLEGE 

ern Pennsylvania, an area hit hard by th frigid winter and resulting energy crisis. "I want to see first-hand the impact of the weather on a high concentration on unemployment," Carter said. 
"The reason for my being here is . to emphasize that this now tempo­rary shortage is going to be permanent," he said. "Every bit of energy saved can be used to keep people on the job." 
He said he had been told by local 
.. natural gas companies that some suburban areas hardest hit by the winter will be without gas by the end of next week if the weather does not let up. 
Congressional leaders were ex­pected to try to vote by Tuesday on legislation today so leaders could schedule action Tuesday. 
James R. Schlesinger, Carter's evergy aide, pleaded earlier for passage of the measure so Carter could act quickly to control gas supplies in hard-hit states. 
(*The Observerl 
Night Editor: Debbie Dahr­ing with the tremendous John Calcutt 
Asst. Night Editor: Paula Carroll 
-
layout Staff: Marie Vitali, Laurel "Sweetheart" Sha­trump Editorial layout: Pat Hanifin 
Features layout: Chris Smith Sports layout: Greg Solman Typists: ·sue Shellenburger, 
Morey Blinder, Mary Ann K;_efe, Jack D' Aurora E.M.T.: Karen Chiames Day Editor: JP 
Copy Reader: Pat Cole lPhotographer: Leo Hansen J 
GRADUATES 

DON'T TAKE CHANCES WITH YOUR PARALEGAL CAREER­NOT ALL LAWYER'S ASSISTANT PROGRAMS ARE THE SAME 
A Roosevelt University Lawyer's Assistant rep­resents the mark of quality and acceptance in today's legal community. 
If you are a college graduate and qualify, why not giveyourself an advantage by attending Roosevelt Univer­sity's Lawyer's Assistant Program which is fully ac­credited by the American Bar Association. 
Since the Fall of 1974, 525 graduates representing over 160 colleges and universities have chosen Roose­velt's Lawyer's Assistant Program for their career training. 
Specialize in: Corporations -Estates, Trusts and Wills -Litigation -Real Estate and Mortgages -or be­come a Generalist*. 
Over 225 law firms, banks, corporations and govern­mental agencies throughout the United States have hired Roosevelt graduates. 
SESSIONS 0 Summer Day;June 13-September 2, 1977 0 Fall Day/September 26-December 16, 1977 0 Fall Evening/September 13, 1977-March 4, 1978 
*evening program only. 

----------SEND TODAY ---------­


Senior Fellow election to be held~ February 1-2 
by Val Zurblls Executive Editor 

This is the third of a three-part series describing the Senior Fellow nominees. 
Muhammad All currently holds the World Heavyweight title. He won the Golden Gloves champion­ship in 1959 and 1960 and the Olympic Gold Medal in 1960. He refused to be drafted in 196 7 because of his religion. He has done many acts of kindness with his money, such as give houses and cars away to needy famiiies. He is currently making a movie of his life. 
Henry Kissinger was Secretary of State under President Nixon and Ford. Although he considers himself a political independent with liberal tendencies, many re­gard him as a tough-minded con­servative whose primary concern is the establishment of equilibrium among the great powers. He has written many books and in 1958 he won the Woodrow Wilson prize for the best book fields of government politics, and international affairs. In 1973 he won the Distinguished Public Service award of the Ameri­can Institute of Public Service and 
the Nobel Peace Prize. Kissenger 
is currently touring college cam­
puses lecturing. 
,Jerry Lewis is comedian, produ­cer, ae;tor, scre..etfwriter, and direc­tor. As national chairman for more than 20 years for the Muscular Dystrophy Associations of Ameri­ca, he personall)lor.raised the entire cost of a multimillion dollar build­. ing for the Institute for Muscle Disease. Some of his famous films include "Rockabye Baby" (1958), "Geisha Boy" (1958), "Cinder­fella" (1960) and "Hook Line and 
Sinker." 
Barbara Jordan is a congress­
woman and a US representative 
from the 18th dist. of Texas. She 
became the first black woman ever 
elected to preside over a legislative 
body in the United States. She was 
named democratic Woman of The 
Year in the Women's National 
Dem. Club, named Woman of the 
Year in Politics by the Ladies Home 
Journal and named Woman Who 
Could Be President. As state 
senator she drew praise from LBJ 
as being "the epitome of the new 
politics in Texas." She was 
chairman of the Labor and Man­
agement Relations Committee and 
Urban Affairs Study Committee, 
named one of the Ten Most 

I I I I I
c • • •:Ji• Witness the ''Magic'' of • 

Paul Gerni 
Famous Trick-shot Pool Artist 
Wednesday Feb. 2 
8:30pm 


LaFortune Ballroom Free Admission 
Sponsored by Social Commission . 
r• 

..............................
•

i ~:k
+ the .....
•+ 

Monday :. (9-11) Tuesday 
Influentional Women in Texas. 

Edward Kennedy is a senator from Massachusettes, former as­sistant majority leader of the Senate, is president of the Joseph 
P. Kennedy Jr. Foundation, a trustee of: Children's Hospital Medical Center, Boston; Lahey Clinic, Boston; Museum of Science, Boston; Boston University; and 
JFK  Library.  He  is  assistant  
district  attornev  of  Suffolk  
County.  

The other 17 Senior Fellow nominees are Bob Dylan, Kurt Vonnegut, Art Buchwald, Gerald Ford, Jerry Brown, Walter Cron­kite, John Wayne, Bob Hope, Jesse Jackson, Alexander Solzhenitsyn, Woody Allen, Carl Bernstein and Bob Woodward, Beverly Sills, Bill Cosby, Eric Severeid, Barbara Jordan and Garry Trudeau. 
The election· for Senior Class Fellow will be held tomorrow and Wednesday. Off-campus students may vote in the main lobby of LaFortune from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. and on-campus students may vote in their dorms from 4:30 to 6 p.m. If anyone hasn't voted by Wednes­day night, they may cast their ballot at the Senior Bar. 
For further information, call Ron Hathaway (8288). 

nazz i• +
•+
Rex Delcamp 
Michael Tsuboda : Paul Hatem (9-1 0) + 
: Grateful Dead, Joni Mitchell : + Featured Artists Special + : Wednesday Steve Paspek (9·11) : 
Lawyer's Assistant Program 
: Thursday Gruff Coleman (9·11) :
ROOSEVELT UNIVERSITY (312) 341-3882 
430 South Michigan Avenue -~ 
Chicago, Illinois 60605 • : Be Friday N.D. First Jazz Combo+ 
Please send me information on Roosevelt's Paralegal Program. D Spring Day Program D Summer Day Program 9 D Spring Evening Program 
•There"' saturday < ·??) : 
Name_ ----------·-----------------------­
: • • • Michelle Parnell Lin Johnson f
Address 

City_______ _ __state__ __ .Zip_ _ _ __ 
Roosevelt University admits students on the basis of indi­
: Dennis Klee Lee Hendricks (9-12):
vidual merit and without regard to race, color, creed, or sex. 
.............................. 
_ Monday, January 31, 1977 the observer 
More pardons may result from Carter study 
by Don Reimer Copy Editor 

President Carter's pardon of Vietnam draft evaders relieved several hundred thousand men of the fear of future prosecution of the stigma of a felony charge. But the military study ordered by Carter could effect an equal number of men. 
According to ReconcUiation After VIetnam--A ProgriUD of Rellef for VIetnam-era Draft and Mllltary Offenders, over 250,000 men re­ceived bad discharges during the Vietnam era. Carter's study will investigate the possibility of up­grading many of these discharges. 
Discharges considered "other­than honorable" by the military are undesireable discharges, issued through administrative processes; and bad-conduct discharges, issued only after a court-martial. 
A Jess-than-honorable discharge can greatly affect the civilian lives of these men. A 1973 Bradley Jones survey found that 69 percent of employers were less likely to hire a man with an undesirable dis­charge, while 20 percent would automatically reject such an appli­cant. 
Carter's program announced last week to place veterans in both public service and private industry jobs could help many of these veterans find work, but they will still hold bad discharges. 
Reconciliation After VIetnam, written by Lawrence Baskir and William Strauss under the auspices of the Notre Dame Center for Civil Rights, contends that many of the discharges were inequitablely is­sued to men from disadvantaged backgrounds. 
Many of these men, the study reports, committed offenses moti­vated by low morale, drug prob­lems, racial tensions, family prob­lems and other Vietnam-related difficulties. 
About 50,000 Vietnam veterans who served full tours in Vietnam received bad discharges after re­turning to the U.S., the report states. These men often could not adjust to the strict discipline and routine duties of American military bases. 
Lack Education 

Almost one third of all the 
military offet;tders were education­
ally disadvantaged, according to 
the Notre Dame report, and many 
were brought into the military 
through Great Society manpower 
programs. The government fel! 
military service would give these 
young men the self-discipline and 
education they lacked. 

"Instead," the report states, 
"they often ended up in combat, 
learned no useful skills, and re­
turned home scarred by their 
military experiences.'' 
Reconciliation After VIetnam 

states that "the government met its manpower needs during the Vietnam build-up by accepting hundreds of thousands of recruits 'whose limited mental abilities would have disqualified them be­
fore or after the Vietnam War." 

Thirty-nine percent of the 
100,000 men discharged for ab­
sence offenses had IQ's between 
one and 90, while 45 percent of 
these men scored between the 31st 
and the 64th percentile of the 
Armed Services Qualifying Test. 

Seventy-one percent did not 
graduate from high school. 

The burden of service during the 
Vietnam War fell on the education­
ally and economically disad­
vantaged because they did not 
possess the means to legally avoid 
the draft, according to the Center 
for Civil Rights Director Conald 
Kommers. 

The draft system was discrimina­
tory, he said, because it allowed 
some persons such as college 
students, to legally avoid the draft 
through such means as defer­
ments. A Vietnam generation 
survey of l ,596 individuals re­
' ---<]that 55 percent of those who 
Observer adds new editors I 
Four Observer staff members were elected to the Observer Editorial Board last night by a majority vote of its members. 
Among the four elected was Martha Fanning, a junior market­ing major from Milton, Massachu­
setts. Fanning presently serves 
· 

The Observer as productton man­ager. She has been a Night Editor, news secretary and Senior Staff Reporter in past years. Kathy Mills and Barbara Breit­enstein were also elected to the board. Mills, a 'unior American 
0 

Tom Byrne is a junior govern-w ment major from Atlanta, Georgia. W ffi He is now an Observer copy reader > > and senior staff reporter. He will <( ~ 
become contr_ibutin editor. 

AN



TOSTAL 
Organizational Meeting 
Feb. 1. 1977-10:30 .pm
LaFortune Ballroom 

Will CHRIS EVERT Be This Year's SPECIAL GUEST??? 
Everyone is welcome. 
never served in the military took some action to avoid the draft. 
Discharge discretionary 

The Notre Dame report also indicates that part of the problem may lie in the discharge system itself. "Commanding officers had broad discretion to decide how to separate servicemen who had dem­onstrated an incapacity or unwil­lingness to perform well," the report states. 
The report notes that discharges for "unfitness" (often undesirable) were often issued for non-absence offenses but the guidelines for "unfitness" were broad, including drug usage, shirking duty, failure to pay debts, and homosexuality. 
As the war. neared its end, the report explains, the military began to rely more on rehabilitation and issued q1or~ gener:_~l discharges for "unsuitability" thereby sparing many persons the less-than-honor­able discharges they might have received earlier in the war. 
In addition, when Congress ordered a reduction of active military forces in the early 1970's, some commanders relieved them­selves of men who were discipline problems whtough plea-bargained undesirable charges. These men were offered undesirable dis-alternatives to trial and possible imprisonment, but the men were often only faintly aware of the bad efects of these discharges. 
"A man's future shouldn't de­pend on the exercise of that kind of subjective judgement," Kommers commented. 
He said that the discharge system should be more systeme­tized and suggested that bad discharges be issued only after a trial. 
Upgrade Discharges 

Carter last week suggested a case-by-case review of military offenders, but the Civil Rights Center study recommends a general upgrading of discharges in carefully .pefined categories. For example,'under the Center's plan persons who received administra­tive (without trial or hearing) undesirable discharges would auto­matically have them upgraded to general discharges because these undesirable discharges are not criminal sanctions. 
Persons who would be screened on a case-by-case basis are: borderline cases, such as those involving court-martials; persons who committed very serious of­fenses; and decisions on awarding veteran's benefits. The report would include 20,000 cases. 
Review of all cases on a case-by­case basis would require an agency the size of the Justice Department to complete the tasldn a reasonable tims, according to the report. 
Kommers felt that the veteran's organizations who protested Car­ter's pardon would be "more sympathetic" to the military study. 
If there are inequities in the discharge system, he said, the veterans would probably be the first to support a review. 
The study of military offenders gives new importance to the Notre Dame study. 
"Ours is the only study available that deals with the nature of military offenses to such an ex­tent," Kommers said. He char­acterized the study as a "middle of the road approach" and said it would be a good point of departure .. 
Copies of the report were given to Carter and Ford several months ago and are now being distributed to all Congressmen and persons in the executive branch who have influence on the study. 
Kommers noted that the report, compiled with the aid of a Ford Foundation grant, was intended as a persuasive program. A more hypothetical, historical book deal­ing with the Vietnam-era draft and military offenders will be published 
charges, the report states, as estimates that these categories by Baskir and Strauss this summer.

;--••••••-CLIPAND SAVE•••••••••, 
I  DELIVERY SERVICE  I  
I  ~  I  
I 1 II  Notre Dame--St. Mary's DELIVERY SERVICE NOTRE DAME-ST. MARYS-MOTELS u.s. 31 NORTH  I 1 II  

I 
I 
I 
Studies major from Bergenfie-ld, I 
New Jersey, is presently an Obser-I 
ver News Editor. Breitenstein, also I 
an Observer News Editor, is a 
junior American Studies major I 
from Kansas City, Kansas. cn 
Fanning, Mills and Breitenstein I1 ffi 
will keep their present positions as 0a: •-.:,::;-:-:.::.:_:__=:.:::.::;:_:..:..:______________~ 
. . . 

11 0 
we as JOtntng the board. J •-'ITTo--.!:--.....--.---.:.___:_:__:;_::.:..::.;_:_::..:.::..::_______---1 
tn o 
~ ~ 
o <( t 
9:: 
...1 ~ 
I I w 
I ~ 
I 
2 
Oa.. YEOLOE

CHICKEN MENU
I ~ 
I ~ · · · · · · · 2.74 
I 
2 (5 pes. plus chips) 4 66
DOUBLE· • • • · • • · 
(9 pes. plus chips) 
I 
I 
FAMILY . • • • • . . 7.26 (15 pes. plus chips) 
MO-JO's • . • . . • . .72 
TOSSED sGARLEAEDN 
I 
I 
I I
I
I 
cn 
I
ffi I 
c 
~ I
I 
w
ffi c I 
> 
U::: 0 
z c r-:U 
~ ,.. 
~ z 
w ·C1 
~ (/)
:! ,.. 

I-.... < 


~ I r 
-· ~ I 
I 
2313 Edison Rd.-Corner Edison & Ironwood Phone 289-5556 1 Ask for Delivery Service I 
I I 
I I 
I I 
I I
ABOVE PRICES PLUS STATE SALES TAX & SOc PER STOP DELIVERY CHARGEI-Ml~liMUM DELIVERY $3.00-I

L---------•CLIPAND SAVE ---------.1 
SPAGHETTI 5:30 thru 10:30 SKILLET $1.73 Fri. & Sat. 
Garlic Bread 
I

Every Hour Starting HOT $1. 5:30 thru 12:30 I 
HERO 59 SANDWICH 
I1 

DELIV~RYSCHEDULE R I 
-

.4811! sun.-thru-Thurs. zo I 
Every Hour Starting 
I 


~*The ..Q~§~r.,Y.~r
serving notre dame and st. mary's
, 

The Observer is published by students of the University_of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. It does not necessanly reflect the policies of either institution. The news IS reported as accurately and as objectively as poss1bl_e. Ed1tonals represent the opinion of a majority of the Ed1~onal Boar~. Commentaries, opinions and letters are the v1ews of the1r authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and letters are encouraged to promote the free 
EDITORIAL BOARD 

Thomas O'Neil Editor-in-Chief Dan Sanchez Managing Editor Chris Smith Asst. Managing Ed. 
Gregg Bangs Executive Editor Val Zurblis Executive Editor Pat Hanifin Executive Editor 
Tim O'Reiley Features Editor Bob Mader. Exec. News Editor Maureen Flynn Campus Editor Marti Hogan St. Mary's Editor Kathy Mills News Editor 
Barb Breitenstein News Editor
expression of varying opinions on campus. 
Don Reimer Copy Editor 
Box Q 

Martha L. Fanning Production Editor
Business Manager Tom Fronczak 
Notre Dame Fred Herbst Sports Editor
Advertising Manager Mike Miller 
Ind. 46556 Tom Byrne Contributing Editor
Photo Editor Tony Chifari 
Monday, january 31, 1977 

Pope is not 
the Church 
De81' Editor: Regarding the headline of The Observer's January 28th issue: "Church Opposes Women Priests". I find that headline rather misleading--especially if one believes that the Church consists of more than any pope or Vatican congregation. Considering that there are many people within the Roman Church who do not agree with Pope Paul--including the "Call to Action" group which met in Detroit Iastyeal, and the Vatican's Pontifi­cal Biblical Commission which voted 12 to 5 in favor of women priests--it would seem the headline should have read "Pope Opposes Women Priests" rather than the all-inclusive term "Church". 
Ed Sellner, OSC 
Thanks for Money 

Dear Editor: As the Notre Dame Hunger Coalition begins its efforts for the second semester, I would like to take this opportunity to thank them and all the Notre Dame students for their past contributions to the J Justice and Peace Center here in South Bend. 
The Center services many people who are literally engaged in a day-to-day battle for survival. The 
powerlessness of .the poor is no more evident than in this basic struggle. While we work on long-range goals to try to make a dent in the systems which keep people poor. we also try to help those who an: hnngrv right now, who face evictiu11 whose utiiitks are being shut off. 
The res0urce<; provided by the Coalition have been a great help. 
The severity of the winter and tremendous increase in heating costs have made this an especially rough time -small resources stretch even less. 
Again, thanks to all of you at Notre Dame who have helped us. Your sacrifices are apprectated. The cause of justice is served in many ways. While you study now in preparation for your careers, stay mindful of the poor of this world. The educational efforts fo the Coalition can be a true part of your overall education. You are the future, which can be more just through your efforts. 
[Rev.] Frank QulnUvan, C.S.C. 
Student 


Pucked 
Dear Editor: 

As an innocent spectator at last 
Friday night's NO-Michigan hoc­
key game. Iwas struck in the head 
by a loose puck. Brietly, I would 
like to thank all of the people who 
assisted me; especially Dr. Leslie Bodnar. his assistant. and Anne Staiger. Their quick actions and kind attention are indicative of the close-knit community at Notre Dame. 
Steve Kendra 
Callous and Unfeeling 
Dear Editor: On Tuesday night. January 25, the Notre Dame World Hunger Coalition once again asked stu­dents to give up their Wednesday night meals and fast instead. For 13 weeks, $.75 per meal would be donated toward the relief of hunger and suffering throughout the world and the unselfishness of these Notre Dame students is to be praised. But we wer(~ disappointed and quite angry to lind out that some people are more concerned about the small amount of extra 
work that this sacrifice will cause 
them than the great effect it will 
bring to the lives of less fortunate 
people. 

We were working in E-F line, 
signing people up for the fast when 
the head checker turned around 
and said, "I wish you wouldn't 
encourage people to sign up for 
that crap." at first we thought she 
was joking until she said, "You 
don't have to line up all that 
crap.''. referring to crossing off the 
meal numbers of those fasting. 
She then turned around and de­
liberately tried to discourage 
people from signing up. 

·We find it hard to believe that 
anyone could be so callous and 
unfeeling as to put a little extra 
work for themselves ahead of what 
could mean relief from hunger, 
starvation, even death for others. 
Luckily, her type are not in the 
majority. Perhaps the fasters' 
numbers could be crossed off, then 
these sheets be xeroxed and used 
every W ednesdy night eliminating 
the need to do this each week. 
If a little common sense is used 
the checker won't have to "waste 
her time with such nonsense" and 
the Hunger Coalition can continue 
to help those who truly need it. 
Jill Pascuzzo Julie Wehner 
Nessie Vandalized 
Dear Editor: 

We. the members of Sorin Hall who participated in the campus­wide snow sculpture contest wish to speak our minds. On Friday, January 28th approximately 20 of us worked all afternoon to build our entrv (the Loch Ness Monster) in orde"r to be ready for the 4:30 p.m. judgement deadline. We did indeed finish it in time only to be informed shortly afterwards that judgement would be postponed until 4:30p.m. the following day. 
Although greatly disappointed, we accepted this decision ,mly to awaken Saturday morning and be 
DOONESBURY by Garry Trudeau 

seriously, folks 

A Letter from Francois 


---------------art buchwaId 
WASHINGTON--Every once in a while I hear from my good friend, 
Francois,  in  Paris.  I got  a  letter  
from him the other day.  
Mon Cher Ami,  
Forgive  me  for  not  writing  

sooner, but we have been celebra­ting Abu Daoud's release from a French prison for the past three weeks. Not since the Dreyfus case has there been such a miscarriage of justice as the arrest of Abu Daoud, who was taken into custody for no other reason than he was a suspected Palestinian terrorist who had engineered the Munich mas­sacre of Israeli athletes. Can you imagine that the poor man, who was travelling on a false passport from Iraq with the French government's permission, had to suffer the indignity of incarceration because the stupid police thought he was wanted by the West Germans? 
It could have been very embar­rassing for France if we had turned him over to West Germany, parti­cularly with our Arab friends who have been kind enough to sell us their oil at $11.80 a barrel. It also would have played havoc with a multimillion dollar deal for fighter planes we were selling to Egypt. 
But that, of course, was not the reason for France to release him. We are a country of honor and dignity and our only concern, when it comes to Arab terrorists, is that justice is done. 
President Giscarq d'Estaing was shocked to hear of Abu Daoud's arrest and immediately demanded 
of the police why they had done it when there were so many unsolved mugging crimes the Paris Metro which they should have been devoting their time to. He told them in no uncertain terms that arresting Arab terrorists was against French foreign policy and a terrible example of police brutality to the rest of the world. 
What nobody realizes is that we French are sticklers for paper work. The West Germans did not fill out the right forms for Abu Daoud's extradition. This was the main problem. There is no way under the sun of the French releasing an Arab terrorist to another country if the paper work is not in order. 

President Giscard d'Estaing was furious at the Germans and even considered breaking off relations with them when he saw how sloppy their extradition papers were. "How," he asked an ai<Je, "can these people can themselves a major power when they can't even fill out the ·correct forms for a simple request for an Arab terror­ist? I may be criticized for releasing him, but the honor of French 
· bureaucracy is at stake, and we would be the laughingstock of the world if we gave up Abu Daoud when they sen us Form 19865 instead of Form 17896 according to the Napoleonic Code. 
I know there has been some criticism of France and particularly our beloved President for releasing Abu Daoud, but we felt Abu has suffered enough. Not only did he have to spend several nights in jail but he was made to fly home on Air Algeria, which is considered by many as "cruel and unusual pun­ishment." 
The President is very angry at the reaction to his decision to free Abu Daoud. But he believes any head of state would have done the 
same thing. After all, if you start· arresting terrorists for no reason, can any hijacker be safe from the knock on the door? 
France has. shown the world what human rights really means. Terror­ists can now walk the streets of Paris safely without fear. This is the message we have tried to send out. We wouldn't do less for Martin Borman. 
A tout a l'heure, Francois 

******************** 
greeted by the sight of the blatant ity and childishness of some of its vandalism of our entry. Tather denizens. than yield to the malicious condul"! It i!'. ntrcnll"lv unfortunate of these people and attempt to that this had to happen and a patch up th{' remains, we have all disgrace to all thO'-l' \\ hn partid­decided to leave it the way it is j,, patcd in the nn1tc'1 in good faith. order to serve as an example to _.til members of this univcr~ity com­Charles Anhut munity of the inconsideratt' vulgar-and man~ others 
Monday, J_a~uary 31, l''77 the observer 
------~~~~~~~~------~ 

People Are Starving In This World 
by Jack D'Aurora 
As a simple starting point: people are starving to death in the world. On the premise that we care to remedy this stiuation, we may pursue one of two courses of action: simply feed these people, or help them to help themselves, while providing them with the food . necessary to sustain life. Organizations trying to right the global situation pursued the latter course. 
To that end, all donations received by the World Hunger Coalition are forwarded to five organizations, carefully researched by the Coalition for their integrity and effectiveness. These agencies apply the funds they receive toward programs that provide food, clothing and medical aide for immediate help. In addition, so that the Third World may become more indepen­dent, education is provided (presently, one third of the world's children receive no education at all) and people are trained in technical, medical and agricultural devel­opment fields. 
Merely feeding the hungry, without doing anything else, would create an international welfare state. To feed the hungry, large amounts of grain are required. Accordingly, the Coalition supports the proposed international grain reserves to be used in times of poor harvest. Farmers would be encouraged, through government subsidies, to fill those reserves. These reserves will only be put on the market during times sub-normal harvest. Thus, a balance of supply and demand will be maintained, and those countries hard pressed for grain will find relief. 
Various arguments about the pro's and con's of a distribution -system have been articulated in the editorial page of the Observer, but this debate was senseless. Somehow this argument has been allowed to evolve, when in reality, it has never been proposed that the UN should handle distribution in the grain reserve program. The World Bank, for that matter, could assume responsibility for coordination of such matters. 
What is important to remember is that this problem will have to be resolved by all countries in a joint effort so that an independent agency may be founded --and this hasn't been done yet. 
Since this grain policy has come as second step to the Right to Food Resolution passed by Congress last year, some will be likened to question why Congress has taken it upon itself to formulate this moral stand. 
Some would argue that Congress does not possess the authority to delcare what rights all men possess, especially those men of other nations. But can anyone affirm with a clear conscious that it is not true that every human has a right to a nutritionally adequate diet, as Congress stated last year? It now remains to petition Congress to actuate this resolution by effecting a grain reserve. 
Though itself a very important statement by creating an intellectual awareness in Congress, it is time to transform the noble Right to Food Resolution into practical action, whereby other countries will hope­fully follow suit. 
The reasons prosperous countries should help is simple, though perhaps ridiculous if you believe there are no ideals worth living for --morality. Such nations should help the poor ones because they are both composed of the same common element -­humans, who are all inherently equal by virtue of their creation as mere men. 
Unfortunately, we as individuals and nations often lose sight of that fact as we become blinded by competition, selfish desires and artificially created boundaries. 
In regard to such endeavors in general, we have to bear in mind what Fr. Hesburgh has said: we may only scratch the surface of the problem, and if we're lucky we may make a dent, but the alternative is to do nothing. 
Instead of trying to feed and help the starving, we could instead, as some would prefer, "let 'em starve." We can only hope that institutions like Notre Dame will provide the guidance so as to enlighten people as to the misery and injustice in the world, and further ingrain in individuals the responsibilities we have to our fellow man --no matter where he lives. 
Taxi Driver: Taken for a Ride 
A preview by David 0'Keefe 
Directed by Martin Scorsese Starring: Robert DeNiro, Jodie Foster, Cybill Shepard 
Taxi Driver is one of those films that you sit through, taking in every small detail and gesture, admiring the subtle touches and intricate nuances as the story deve­lops, but leaving in the end with the unwholesome feeling that there was some­thing wrong, something miss'ing. 
What's missing in Martin Scorsese's study is a little more depth. Taxi Driver is the story of a cabbie named Travis Bickle (Robert DeNiro) who drives the graveyard shift in Manhattan because, "I can't sleep." Riding with Bickle is like strolling through a sewer, and Scorsese spares little in capturing the gritty neon nightlife of New York City. The hero is the lonely silent type, not over-intelligent but never­theless acutely perceptive. As he takes in the rot around him through his grease­streaked windshield, he develops a loath­ing that eventually inspires him to strike out against all the insurmountable degrad­ations and filth that the city has to offer. It is the story of his fight and his magnificent failure, but in the end he is neither conqueror nor casualty. 

Which is where the film falls down with a crash. After taking us through all of Bickle's scummy encounters and de­humanizing experiences in the supremely cogent first half of the movie, Scorsese leaves us to fend for ourselves. It is true that, by the very nature of its story, Taxi Driver ought not be reduced to moralizing, but there is a vast gap between ambiguity and confusion wherein lies the successful communication of an idea. Taxi Driver isn't in that neighborhood. It lives over there, right next door to confusion. 
It would be entirely unfair to tell much of the story, but some of the principles involved are a winsome blond who works in the campaign headquarters of a presiden­tial candidate and who captures Bickle's eye(Cybill Shepard), a 14-year old hooker (Jodie Foster). and her pimp (Harve Keital). Betsy (Cybill Shepard) is a nice example of the kind of people you meet in the film. She treats a date with Travis like something akin to a volunteer session with a retarded child, full of phony smiles and condescending friendliness. 
And so it is that Travis gets fed up to here with the whole stinking, perverted mess. Scorsese does a brilliant job of taking us to the brink and showing us that there is no true conventional way out for Travis. The rest is fast and furious, but when the smoke clears and the credits start rolling, there is still a very long, dark shadow of a doubt. Was it a Quixotic or demonic possession? Who is the hero, and who is the villian? Very basic, fundamen­tally important questions. Very difficult answers. 
It may be that Scorsese offers no answer, or that none exists. In any event, Taxi Driver should be seen. If not for the intelligent depiction of the story, if not for the sheer power of the performances, it should be seen. It should be seen, if not for the answers, then to see the questions so very well put. 
Note: Taxi Driver airs tomorrow and Wednesday at the Engineering Audi­torium, at 7:30 and 10 pm. 

Waiting for Godot.....~ 
A wait until 8:15 to see. . . two travellers: two tramps on a river road Enter the Fuehrer, Pozzo the performer, where death's forceps tug at birth with watch and pipe and squawking vaporizer, "Nothing to be done" shouting Nazi commands from center stage A need to play and do and perform and do and tightening the yoke of the pig, his Siamese twin, amidst the sound of corpses' mouths. Lucky, ···· 
:;:; First, a bleached tree with drooping arms, dependent on his master's umbilical rope ;:;: 
~ ~~~¥j:~~:~~t::::::::::·h ~~l:~:~~;~;~~;;:.~:i·:~~~·~:~;h,,;o... 1 
:·:· who teases with the messages of a young cherub. ·:-: 
•••• ::J~,:J':!~.~ :h~·~:k'.f';••,.laundeced linen. ~tr:;h~~~~td:~~rf:~e :::ed:~~:=~:~ ••,..l, •••• 
·.·. two thieves afflicted by tickles in their boots and hat. 1 c mg an annoymg an pussmg, 
~? One barefoot, touching the earth and all its pains exploring the metaphysics of boredom 
:::: the other raised on thick-souled shoes in two repetitive acts. ) and thinking, always thinking. 
{ They point an accusing finger at the bog, A yc1wning audienC<' ~:~--_~:~: 
:·:· ticket-holding voyeurs who snicker at vaudevillian antics exhausted 
:::: anci wallow in unsuspecting lc1ughter. feeling cold mort> pil•rcingly 
:~:~ dfter Beckett's frozen ·t.. ntert..tinnlt.'nf 


~6~---=-t~h:.._:e~o~b-=s:..=e:_:r:_V::.._e=-:..r___--MondayI Janum 31, 1977 
SMC-ND considering Ireland program in 1977 
"The campus is beautiful,... ing the St. Mary's Rome program. While in Rome, Duggan went can't compare with those here onby Maureen 0. Sajbel 
Duggan noted, "and the city of "I wanted to familiarize myself with the students to an audience campus. You can't expect that. with the program, to identify any of with Pope Paul VI. After being It's a good hotel and I was
The Fighting Irish of St. Mary's Maynooth is only 45 minutes by 
bus f~om Dublin." No housing its problems and reassure myself of introduced the Pope talked to the impressed with the location. Theand Notre Dame may have a chance facilities exist on campus, but its strengths," he said. "I was group in English, saying that he Pantheon is so close and you canto experience first hand what it is newly-built rowhouses are avail­gratified to see that the instruction remembered coming to St. Mary's walk to the Vatjcan and the
like to live in Ireland. St. Mary's President, Dr. John able for students to rent. They are was at a good level and I was and Notre Dame years ago. Pope Coliseum.'' furnished and are within walking impressed with the quality of the Paul, then a Cardinal, and Presi­Duggan extended the library
M. Duggan, decided to look into 
faculty." dent Eisenhower received honorary hours and discussed the need forthe possibility of starting an Ireland distance of the school. 
"We haven't worked out the cost Duggan visited the classes in degrees in 1960 from f\lot're Dame. more varied course offerings and year abroad program. Following 
Rome and held conferences with Duggan spent the major part of new registration procedures. Also,
his trip to Italy and Ireland last yet," Duggan said. He went on to his trip in Rome and said that he noted, "there is a need for more
December he has tentatively say, however, that in conparison to the faculty and students. The planned to open an Irish Studies the home campus, it would "surely Rome program is seven years old "people knocked themselves out space .for socializing." 
program next year. be no more, and perhaps cost and Duggan is the second St. for me." The Hotel Tiziano, His stay was concluded with a less." Mary's president to visit the residence for female students, held trip to Assisi, Italy. Students
Duggan thought of the program 
The program will be run on an campus. its Christmas banquet early so that spend one week in Assisi before as a way to "expand opportunities 
experimental basic next year. "I had doubts before I went he could attend. At the banquet he going to Rome each September.
for studying abroad. The language 
Duggan mentioned the possibility simply because of what you hear was entertained by a special Christ­They get a chance to test theirrequirement was always a problem of expanding it in the future to about study abroad programs," mas program that included singing knowledge of the language andwith foreign study programs," he 
continued, "We've never had a include private buildings and its Duggan commented., "but I was in both English and Italian and folk acquaint themselves with the Ital­very reassured. The problem with dancing. ian culture before beginning clas­
program in an English speaking own faculty. 
place." Notre Dame currently operates most foreign programs is not Duggan also attended a special ses in Rome. "What a beautiful place to have
an Ireland program for a limited enough academic rigor; they're mass with the students in the St. Patrick's CoHege Chosen number of English majors in con­just a year of travel abroad. These classroom building. He com­an orientation program,'' Duggan 
commented.

nection with the School of Irish programs don't survive. The mented on how close the students Studies. The St. Mary's program people who teach in Rome from St. were, saying that the "Kiss of He expressed his gratification atDuggan went to the Dublin area 
to look at the schools with which he 
would be larger in scale and not Mary's, Temple, Trinity, and Peace took a full five minutes while seeing the quality of the Assisicould base the St. Mary's program. 
limited to any particular major. Loyola University all say that our the kids hugged each other." orientation program as well as theAfter considering various schools, 
program is the strongest aca­Commenting on the Hotel Tizi­St. Mary's Rome program insuch as Trinity College of Dublin, On his December trip, Duggan 
demicall v .'' ano, Duggan said, "The rooms general.
the Irish National University, the also spent a week in Rome evaluat-
School of Irish Studies and the Irish Humanity Center, he chose St. Patrick's College in Maynooth as most suited to St. Mary's needs. The school, 14 miles from Dublin, is a small liberal arts college that Duggan says is "strong in litera­ture, history, philosophy, geo­graphy and theatre.'' 
"It would not be an organized program with our own school and faculty," Duggan stated. "It would be more of an understanding with St. Patrick's." 
Next year's program can ac­commodate possibly as many as 30 students. It will be open to mainly next year's sophomores and juniors in liberal arts majors. 
St. Patrick's College was a seminary until 1966. It is now a co-ed college in the process of expanding. The college is a part of the National University System of Ireland. 
RA meeting 
at St. Mary's 

An informational meeting re­garding the St. Mary's Advisor Program will be held at 4 p.m. Monday, Jan. 31. in Room 170 LeMans. The meeting is for inter­ested students who were unable to attend one of three original meet­ings. 
For further information, contact the Counseling Center (4836). 
Deserters oppose Carter program 
TORONTO [AP] -More than 300 U.S. draft resistors and desert­ters from as far away as Sweden and France met here this weekend and denounced President Carter's amnesty program. 
Steve Grossman, an organizer of the conference, said some of the war resistors would travel to Wash­ington for a 10 day vigil and fast beginning Tuesday to dramatize their opposition to the Carter plan. It offers pardons to almost all Vietnam war-era draft evader~" but not to deserters. 
Tom Nagel, a deserted who has lived_ in Paris for four years, said the meeting "proves there is universal support for full amnesty. We'll force Carter to give it to us." Grossman repeated the complaint of many expatriates that most draft evaders were white and middle chtss and that poorer, less-educa­ted youths who objected to the war resisted only at the last moment by becoming deserters. 
"There are 30,000 military de­serters still subject to arrest and some 792,000 Vietnam veterans who received less-than-honorable discharges that prevent them from getting jobs, veteran benefits, loans or ·.nsurance,'' said Gross­man. He is the publisher of Amex-Canada, a periodical for American war resisters. 
Save $10.00 to $59.90 ifyou act now. 
/

Ifyou'vebeenthinking about getting a programmable, Texas Instruments hasa special offer for you 





Nowr--\ 
\:­
_...,.,,~;:, 
\ 
\ Choose

......,..'5t' ·.\two 
""""""'....-~~:
s_...---­
SR-56 $109.95* SR-52 $299.95* 
If you want an incredible slide rule calculator that's If you want the computer-like power of a card pro­also programmable, then this is the one for you. grammable then choose this one. 
There're 74 preprogrammed functions and opera­Techniques like optimization, iteration, data reduc­tions. And it has AOS, Tl's unique algebraic operating tion, what-if matrices, mathematical modeling, need system, the underlying reason an SR-56 is so power­not tie up your mind-or your time. ful. It'll let you handle problems with as many as But learning to use it is a hassle, you say. Not true. 9 sets of parentheses. Talk about memory. An SR-56 Prerecorded programs are gathered into software has 10 (11 if you count the T-registered.). And you can libraries: Electrical Engineering. Math. Statistics. do arithmetic with all of them. Finance. All you need do is load a mag card, press a 
Chances are you'll soon discover how really easy few keys and you'll get answers that previously it is to program. An SR-56 has 100 steps. Six logical required a computer. decision functions. Four levels of subroutines. Dec­You can make your own programs just as easily. rement and skip on zero. Comp.'Jte a test register In just a couple of hours you'll begin to~ with the display to make a conditional branch. And prove what a powerful asset you have-this is just the beginning. right at your fingertips. 
Think about it. Can you really afford to put off get­And there's not a better time to get an ting your SR-56, now? SR-52 than right now. 
r-----------------2
r----~------------~ 
I Texas Instruments will rebate $10.00 ~I your. original SR-56 purchase price when I I Electrical Engineering. Statistics. Math. Finance. Choose any two and (1) return I 
yq~: (1) return thts completed coupon mcludmg senal number (2) along with your this completed coupon including serial number along with (2) your completed 
completed SR-56 customer infonnation card (packed in box) and \3) adated copy I SR-52 serialized customer information card (packed in box) and (3) a dated copy I
I I
I of proof of your purchase, verifying purchase between Jan. 1and March 31. 19F. I I of proof of your purchase, verifying purchase between Jan. 20 and March 31, 1977. I SR-52 free software library oHer 
I SR-56 Rebate Ofter I I P. 0. 8011210 I
P. 0. Box 1210 
Richardson, Texas 75080

I Richardson, Teus 75080 1 
I Name I 1 Name 1 ~~~ I ~~~ I 1 City State Zip 1I City State Zip _____ I SR-52 Serial No. (from back of calculator) I 
___ Math ___ Statistics ___ Finance ___EE
SR-56 Serial No. (from back of calculator) 
Texas Instruments reserves the right to substitute software libraries of equal value, II Please allow 30 days for rebate. I based upon availability. Please allow 30 days for delivery.
L _________________ J 
L-----------------~ 
Offer void where prohibited by law. Good in Conmental U.S. only. 'Suggested retaN priCe. 
TEXAS INSTRUMENTS 
© 1977 Texas Instruments Incorporated INCORPORATED 65581 
the_o_bs er_v_e_r~-7-l 
New York stock exchange expert 

to speak at Finance Forum 
by Jake Morrissey 

The College of Business Admin­istration is spons~;>ring a Finance Forum on Feb. 2 and 3 at the Hayes·Heal_v Center. 
According to Professor Herbert Sim, Chairperson of the finance department, this is an annual event _designed "to expose students to some outstanding practicioners in 
SMC closing 

[continued from piUle 11 always knew we could feed every­one, even if we had to limit people to one entree and one salad.'' 
The shortage was avoided by improvising and changing food menus, while some items were purchased locally. Though the supply of dairy products did run out Saturday, Friday's usual deliveries did arrive Saturday afternoon. By early Sunday, three out of the four deliveries had been received. The food service itself was not impair­ed.. even on Friday morning, when the entire morning staff was pre­sent. · 
Flaim remarked that "no drastic changes'' would be implemented to prepare for future shortages, since all available storage space is being utilized. "Even if we had another major snowstorm right now, we could get through this next week,'' Flaim said. 
S_MC workshops resume today 
St. Mary's Career Development Center (CDC) workshops will re­sume Monday, Jan. 31. The eight workshops, which will be offered each week, will be in CDC during the day and in the residence halls at night. 
The workshops include an orien­tation, decision-making, how to write a resume, how to interview, how to gather and evaluate infor­mation, skill identification, work values and how to get a job. 
Students may sign up at CDC or over the phone (4431). Notre Dame students are welcome. 
Juniors who have signed up for the Summer Job Program are reminded that the must complete all eight workshops to be eligible for the program.
.,.-------.
( Classified l 1 Ads I 
I I
NOTICES

I Papers professionally typed. Tele­phone eveninns 272-8308. 
I

I .................:............................. 
I 
Greyhound Bus to Chica[lo..Leavesl Main Circle every Friday at 5:45 pm. Call Tom at 8338 for reservations.
I andfurtherinformation.



!~~~:~~~;;t~{~~~~~ 
their fields, and to show our J. ¥eehan, an Acting Fiscal Agent, students what they do and to at 10:10 a.m. Edward F. Keenan, inform them on a number of Jr., vice-president of the Option current interesting topics. It is a Department of Merril Lynch will very good supplement to our also speak at 11:15 a.m. learning activities," he said. 
On Thursday, John J. Planagan, Jr., a New York Stock ExchangeThe forum begins at 9 a.m. on expert will speak at 9:30a.m., andWednesday with Allen C. Sell, a Robert Quinn of Saloman Brotherssales representative of Government will lecture at 1:15 p.m.
Securities, and continues with John 
Increase your 
Chris Walsh, Engineering 
"It's really boring to read the way most people are taught. This way, you look at a page of print-you see the whole page. It's great!" 
Jeni Malara, John Futch, Student Law Student 
"I had C's in high school. "With 60 briefs a week. the After Evelyn Wood Reading average student takes all week Dynamics, I was able to prepare for class. In an 
to maintain an A average:· evening, I'm finished:' 
All it takes is one free lesson and you can zip through homework a lot faster. In fact, you can cut your study time almost in half! Hard to believe? Put us to the test. Come and discover the secrets to easy speed reading, better concentration, greater comprehension. These copyrighted techniques, taught in over 300 cities throughout the 
U.S. No gimmicks. No obligation. It's easy. It's fun. It works. 
Get it while it's still free! 
South Bend 
TODAY 

THRU L t 4 d Notre Dame Campus 
:::;s:::oopm a~~EVE•~Ny:O·OD REcAeDnteiNrtGor c:NtinAuMin9ICEdSucation
0

IK:;;.;,f.:i:Jfq~;~:~~;~--~~..--_:___-;:.___..,_____~;:!:=~'"·-';;;;;:;;'"' 
I ;:~~i~-~ ...:is..~~~i;·~..i>~[;~: ..c·~ii·o~~ 
272-5549.

I~t::~1~i;~;~~'ffot:~~; 
I ............................................... 
ATTENTION II CILA summer pro-

I 
I 
jects are comin[l. Applications may be picked up in the Volunteer Service Office in La Fortune. For further information, call Mark at I I 
233-3613 or Lee at 1504. ............................................... INFORMAL GATHERING OF STU+ DENTS AND PROFESSORS OF 
THE SOCIOLOGY DEPT. 7:30 pm, FEB. 4, INTERNATIONAL STU+ DENT'S LOUNGE, LAFORTUNE.

I ............................................... 
I 
FOR RENT 
I 
Completelyfurnishedhousesran[l­inn from two to seven bedrooms av-ailable tor summer or next Sep-I tember. call 234-9364, Mrs.Hum-
I 
bu[ler. . ... . . two bedroom house for rent. Sum­
mer andlf•r school year. 1012 Eddy eet. $120 month plus utilities. 

2..R~~~~-$4o·~·;;,·~~th·.·;·:i:i.-i3·2~;_--···· 
............................................... 
COST AND FOUND 

Lost: My new Christmas present from Uncle Herbie..a red stockin[l hat..possibly on a shuttle bus. Call Tom at 288-9916. ............................................... LOST: Silver wire-frame eye[llasses.Lost in O'Sha[lhaunessy on Friday,21st. Reward tor return. Call Ken, 3051. ............................................... Found: beautiful pair of mittens at the NO Bus Stop in Phone Booth. Call 234-6623 evenings.
..................................... 

Lost: a cross pen and an assi[lnment book. Call Tom 7843. Thanks! ............................................... LOST: LEFT BROWN SKI GLOVE SAT NIGHT AT LIBRARY OR NICKlES, CALLGEORGE, 3365. 
wiii'~h~~~~;·AccioENTLY·p·i·~k-~d 
up a ba[l (with my overalls, [lloves, etc.) that was in the closet at the party on Cedar St. please return to 
~~-~~ci·:·~-~~ci·;~-~~~~-~-~;;,·b~~-6o8oi 
m front of South Dmm[l Hall. Call 
p'"'"" ~~~;.~ 
Need ride to Lexin[llon, Ky. or ilouisvilleon Feb. 4. 
1473. 

............................................... NEEDED: 3 South Carolina tickets. Call 6931 ask tor Dan. 
····.......···...................····.......... NEED TWO TIX for Dayton name. can 6153. · ....... ............................ 
Wanted: Future Business Partner. Needed: 4 GA tix to San. Fran. Give me a buzz at 1089, Dave. ................. ................... URGENTLY NEED 6-8 S.CARO+ LINA GA TIX CALL JOHN 1188. ................... 
FOR SALE 

AUDIO OUTLET: top name stereo 
as much as 100%1 
Jim Creighton, Richard St. Laurent, Student Teacher 
"It's easy. Once you "I was skeptical, but now I'm know how to do it, it's reading around 2300 words a super easy!" minute. Puts you that much 
ahead of everyone else:' 
io~~. s~~oE~o~e~~n~~~[l~~i~86s~ i~~~ 
manic ski boots, size 7$25. excellent 

:::·::: ;,::·.:::,,:;·:~ .~,~, 
lent condition, call 277-3762 nites til 
rn.i~~i-[1~':.................................. 
AUDIO COMPONENTS WHOLE-SA,LE.!!Top namhe eq~8ip3m10en56_t. Low-es prtces anyw ere. · · 

.............................................~---,-·Happy Monday! (I don't really
Real Es!ale: Fo~ S_ale, 38 acres in Three Rtvers, Mtch~[lan. 150 rods Of 
tronla[le. 616-968:3:l12 after6 pm. ....................,..-:..... ........ ADIDAS :SAlE (ln stock) T-Shirts 

$2-5. GoiC shirts $8-10. Catalo'l orders too. (2 days) Chris 7933. · ·· · · · · · · · · · .. ·· · · · ...··· · · ............· ,.. PERSONALS 
' ~INGLE, Try Matchmaker tor a new wav of meetin'l other siMies. Write 

·po Box 214, Mishawaka, Ind. 
Enclose a stamped envelore 
<1\EG 'm <1lad you come home this week 1EXTweekyoucangoskiin'1 

. ~~m";~:r~~~o~~~~; ii?sk~;~a~f 1 
fhse\ role! Of course, I'm only kidding. I I 

::::;:~~~·:~;,:~/:~; II 
walkin[l themselves to the closet? I found your laundry card on front of 
I 

the South Dinin(l Hall. Call Patty 7995. .......................,,_.,_,,...,-.:...... 
I 

Dear .Amy·,··Janet and Annette, 
I 

mean that since 1hate Mondays. but let's pretend) Anyway, I hope 2nd semester is I-t-terrific. Love, your 
I other roomie, Bev ....................... I Buff P. is 21. Ask her to try on her BIRTHDAy suIT tonight. 
I 

Happy B-Day, JilL the Enterprise 
I 

wishesyouthebest;21shotsawait! 
li's JILL PASCUZZO'S birthday. 
I 

Wishherahappyone. 1333. 
Jtll p St 21 and l€'1ill tor ANYTH lNG 
I 

Take advan'a'"'' I 
Joyeuse Ann•vt>rsa•re. lillie on, 
I 

1Oddies Harris at 232-8563. 304 Lyons. equtpment wholesale. Call 283 1181 Dave Low M ~<h,l€1 ........., 

------------------------------------------~ 
... 

8 the observer Monday, january 31, 1977 
Irish icers sweep Colorado, 8-7,8-6 
by Gregory Solman aciously, stole the puck out in front Mike Knoke, who would prove to Sports Writer 
and slid it by Vern Mort's left side be a major factor in the roughness to put Notre Dame in front. With that characterized the latter part of play still ragged and filled with the game, scored the opening goal. 
"If we can beat Colorado twice 
out there and go up to Minnesota errors by both sides, Rick Pracht Terry Fairhglm, Kevin Nugent, and win twice there, there will be 
put one by Lenny Moher, to end the Brian Walsh and Geoff Collier used no stopping us.'' scoring in what was not a period for a blitzkrieg strategy to · run the the purist. score to 4-1 before Dave Delich
The above prophecy of Dukie After Dave Delich added the answered with a goal to end theWalsh became partially fulfilled 
last weekend in Colorado, as the second straight Colorado goal to period. Irish hockey team swept a two start the second period, Donny In the second period, .Hanson Fairholm came through with two and Greg Meredith traded goals
game series from the Tigers 8-7 and 8-6. Thousands of Notre Dame consecutive goals, his second and and Paul Clarke put the Irish in front the
fans, including the infamous "Ice­third of the game, giving him his before tension of the Holes" would like very much to first hat trick in his collegiate previous game culminated. hold Walsh to that promise. career. Christofferson and Straub Midway through the second per­i added two more goals for the iod, Mike Reilly, who had been
In an away series where coaches
•I Tigers giving them a 6-5 edge sticking to Dan Byers like peanut
hope to gain splits, the pucksters
I going into the final period. butter on a wool sock all night, got
outplayed the Tigers in two crucial
I In the period, Irish stick high Byers'
third periods to increase their last the his a little for 
I established what they hope will be liking, and the two started the
second place WCHA lead over
I~ a trend that lasts them throughout fisticuffs. Both were thrown off,
North Dakota to six points, and to the They played and Byers will be forced to miss the rocket them into second place in tournament. a brilliant third period in both con­first game of this weekend's seriesthe national poll ahead of New tests, showing their poise in the as a result of the fight. 
Hampshire who lost to Union final minutes. Nearing the end of the period,College, and behind Wisconsin by Kevin Nugent came out on fire, Rick Pracht scored three unan­six points. 
scoring two consecutive goals. The swered goals, the first hat trickIn the opening game of what second goal turned out to be an against Notre Dame this year, andturned out to be a wide-open 
match, the Irish jumped to a important one as Mike Knoke tied the second period ended with the
1-0 
it up two minutes later. two teams tied at six.
lead on a powerplay goal by Jack Jack Brownshidle added the In the final stanza, Geoff CollierBrownshidle. Mike Straub equal­winner on passes from Brian Walsh set up the winning goal when heized with help from Dave Hanson and Dick Howe, and the Irish had penatrated the left side, drawingand Dave Delich, slipping the puck their split --at least. two defensemen with him. Collierby netminder Lenny Moher. Three Paul Clarke had two goals and seven assists this weekend, leavingThe next night, it was much the backhanded a perfect pass to Terry minutes later, Tony Palazarri put him only six goals away from Bill Green's record for goals by asame story as far as the style of the Fairholm out in front to put thethe Tigers in front and it was off to defensemen.
game was concerned. The Irish Irish ahead, 7-6.
the races in the scoring spree. 

and Tigers threatened to mix it up Paul Clarke put the game on ice of John Peterson, and when Geoff misconduct for Knoke and a benchJust twenty-five seconds later, the entire game, and in fact did so with his second goal of the game, minor to his team. Everyone
Steve Schneider struck for the Irish Collier was pinned in back of the 
nearing the end of the contest, as but there was still some action to net, Mike Knoke jumped off the paired off, but no Notre Dameto tie the game. 
the two teams collected a total of come. With eight seconds left, Colorado bench and dove on Collier players left the bench.
With the Irish short-handed, thirty penalties. rough stuff was developing in front from behind, resulting in a game "I was pleased in the way theDonny Fairholm forecheckjng ten-
team reacted under the conditions. They showed their discipline throughout the game," Coach Lefty Smith said. 
For the Irish, it was another productive weekend, though Wis­
Irish trounce hapless Rams 
consin had little trouble sweeping Michigan State to remain in the WCHA lead. The Irish have nowby Val Zurblis 
and another who is injured, the overs. It was not uncommon to see rest, gets the crows excited, and 
won eight consecutive WCHASports Writer 
Rams are suffering through a long; Fordham toss the ball in on one gives us the playing time." 
games.
The Fordham game was post­cold winter. They continued to side only to see it go out on the Toby Knight continued his ex­Paul Clarke came within oneponed from Saturday to Sunday ,suffer yesterday as the closest they other side. At 6:43, Rich Branning cellent play and ended up high point of tying a scoring record for adue to freezing weather conditions, could get was early in the first half stole the ball and drove the length scorer with 21 markers. Halfway two game series. Clarke tallied twobut it may as well have been when they tied the game 4-4. After of the court for a score, and the through the half, Knight did his goals and seven assists and is nowcancelled after seeing yesterday's that Notre Dame gave them the Rams threw the ball right back to famous slam dunk, causing Ford­only six goals away from Billboring affair at the ACC. The cold shoulder and ran away with Bill Hanzlik who tossed it to ham to take a time out. Branning Green's record for goals by aFordham Rams looked colder than the game. With 11 minutes remain­Duck Williams for another two. At was second with 16, and Williams 
defe:~semen.
the soup at the dining hall as Notre ing, the Irish were ahead 19-8 and one point, Williams was on defense had 13. Branning also added eight Dame left them out in the cold, already in the bonus situation. only to be surprised when the ball assists. Fordham's high scorer was 93-71. The first half was a cold wave for practically fell into his hahds, John O'Neil with 21. followed by 
Missing four early season star­the Rams, filled with fumbling and giving Notre Dame another bucket. Tom Kavanagh with 18 and Bill Bruins top Vols 
ters, three of whom quit the team bumbling, resulting in 19 turn-He shouldn't have been surprised, Lomhardi with 17. it happened consistently in the Bill Paterno came to life after a ATLANTA [AP] -Eighth-ranked half. At the buzzer of the first half, sluggish last few games to hit three UCLA, riding a 78-point outburst Fordham's last-second shot ended bombs in the second half and finish by Roy Hamilton, Marques John­up in thf' crowd, nowhere near the with ten points. Paterno is now just son and David Greenwood, Ram's basket. nine points short of 1000 for his smothered seventh-ranked 
Toby Knight was hot for the Irish career. Tennessee 103-89 Sunday in a 
Irish, dropping in five field goals Overall, Phelps' goal remains to nationally televised college basket­
and three foul shots. ''He just has a win 20 games for the season and go ball game. 
lot of natural ability," head coach to the NCAA playoffs. "You're The Bruins never trailed in the 
Digger Phelps. "He's a senior and safe at 20 wins for a bid," the Irish game, gaining an early 11-point 
has played a lot of basketball." general said. "When it comes advantage and maintaining a com­
With four minutes remaining in down to March we just want to be fortable margin throughout most of the half, the crowd was already one of the top 32 teams in the the game. calling for the SWAT squad, and country.'' Hamilton, a sophomore, poured 
Phelps obliged with 1:30 to go by This is the tenth loss in a row for in 30 points as UCLA reeled off its 
putting in Chris Fabian, Tim the Rams, and the Irish improved sixth straight victory and lifted its 
Healy, Bill Sahm, Randy Haefner to a 10-5 record. Next Tuesday record to 16-2. Johnson, a senior, 
and Dave Kuzmicz. Haefner was night at 8 p.m. in the ACC the Irish added 24 points and Greenwood, a the crowd-pleaser when be bombed face the Dayton Flyers, who are sophomore who sat out much of the one in and at the half the Irish currently in a four-game losing second half in foul trouble added were uo by 20, 44-24. streak. 22. 
The !Irish seemed to have a bit of an energy crisis in the second half and the Rams were thawing, giving 


NBC gets Olympics
the game a little competition and a 
lot of boredom. Fordham seemed 
to be using a unique offensive NBC and the ~oviets early this
MOSCOW (AP) The National 

strategy. by playing away from the week. it was reported.
Broadcasting Co. has been 

hoop, hoping to break free inside. Soviet Olympic officials were not
awarded the exclusive rights to 

It didn't work. Fordham kept pace immediately available for com­
televise the 1980 Moscow Olympic

with Notre Dame, only scoring two ment,. but the NBC spokesman
Games in the United States, a 

-·--less than the home team in the half. company spokesman sais said there is no doubt that his
yester­The difference in the half was in company has clearly been awarded
day.

the turnovers. Fordham held theirs the contract. 
The spokesman. emerging from

down to six, while Notre Dame had In New York. an NBC spokesman
private negotiations with repre­

nine. Phelps commented, ''If we said. "We have been very pleased
sentatives of the Soviet Olympic

can play with more intensity and no with the spirit. cooperation and 
Organizing Committee and state

ease up with a lead, we'll be friendly atmosphere which have 
television, refused to give details of 

tough." marked our 11egotiations. Particu­
the terms of the contract. which

The SWAT team returned with larly. we wish to express our 
some have speculated could cost up

43 seconds remaining. Tim Healy appreciation to Mr. Ignati Novikov. 
to $100 million.

scored a turnaround layup, his tirst president of the delegation of the two points scored as a varsity The formal contrac· for the TV organizing l"Oillmittce of the JQ80 player. "SWAT is good for rights. which in recent years !w-.c (iana·~ in Mnsnm. for his direction everyone involved:" the 6-1 guard been cornered h\' the Anll'ri.-:tn in n>nrdinating these remarked. "It gives the starters Broadcasting Co.. ·,, illlK· stgiiL'll In .. "n"'. 









