
Burtchaell announces resignation as provost 
---------------~----------~------. 
1 
j 
l 

ning back on the Notre Dame football team, announced a settle­
:~;~~:;::;,~s::.Estudents cut from judicial system;
ment of his lawsuit for a temporary judgement.
injunction for reinstatement on Aug. 15. The agreement stipulated Thesixplayerswererepresented 

d • • t d 'non negotl•able'
that Hunter accept a one-semester :~~:~rn~e;:~~a~y t:~~~!a~~;~ 8CISIOn erme • 
suspension and drop his litigation Steve Dane and John Talbot, as byMartiHogan were under greater pressure to Notre Dame is different-from that
against the University, while re­
provided in du Lac. Contrary to Edltor·ln-Cblef betray-the confidentiality of judicial in a civil court.
maining eligible for a return to his 
some reports in the national media, proceedings. The question was then raisedstudies in January. Hunter will each of the accused students Prompted by legal action After an hour of questioning, about the fairn~ss of Roemer acting 
also retain the benefits of his received a separate hearing, ac-brought against the University this however, Schndder admitted that as both prosecutor and judge under grant-in-aid upon his return. 
cording to Dane. In each case, summer, Notre Dame plans to the major reason for dropping the new system. Carney objected In a statement announcing the Roemer acted as prosecutor before remove students from the Univer-students from the board was to put to the term "prosecutor," and said 
settlement, Hunter indicated he the University Judicial Board, com-sity judicial process and eliminate the University in a better legal that the Dean of Students wouldhad decided to end the lawsuit posed of three students and three the tripartite disciplinary board so position. "We wouldn't have had investigate both sides of a case.
because of his desire ''to solidify faculty or administrators. that all University cases come the problem we had in this situa-In the present system, the deanmy status as a student and football Much of the controversy sur-directly to Dean of Students James tion (under the proposed system)," of students or the judicial boardplayer." 
rounding the incident involves the Roemer. Schneider commented, referring to first hears cases which can then be"I would not want to be allowed manner in whicll evidence against University trustees Jack Schnei-the recent Hunter case. appealed to an appellate board.
to return to the University under a Hunter and the others was present-der and Thomas Carney, along with "We regret that we cannot, The new Appeals Board will consisttemporary injuction and then half 
ed at their hearings. The only Roemer and Brother Just Pac-because of the nature of the of three people chosen by theway through the academic semes­witness to appear before the board, zesny, vice-president for student previous case, discuss it," Roemer President of the University from ater find that I lost the hearing on a according to Dane, was the female affairs, outlined the proposed said. He indicated, however, that panel of ten-five faculty and fivepermanent injunction," he said. 
student who the players were changes in a meeting last Friday certain things happened during the administrators-for each case that is''This would mean that the effort allegedly visiting after parietals.. for representatives from student deliberation ofthe University board appealed by the student or the
put into my studies would be 
Another source indicated that tt government and campus media. which showed the student mem-University.
wasted and my football career left was her admission to her rectress Schneider succeeded Carney as bers to be the problem. According to the proposed draft, in complete turmoil." 
that she had entertained a number chairman of the Board of Trustees' Roemer stated that the Univer-the faculty members would beThe settlement also signified the of men in her room after parietals Student Affairs Committee. sity wanted a simplified rule that nominatedby the Faculty Senateend to Hunter's college football 
that provoked the charges by Student government and media would not expose the University to and the administrative members career, since National Collegiate Roemer. Her testimony was were invited to offer opinions and legal difficulties and that the would be nominated by the vice­Athletic Association regulations reportedly called into questio!l suggestions, but Schneider con-· changes were the University's way president of Student Affairs. Theprohibit any athlete from compet­since she suffered from psychologt-sidered student removal from the of eliminating "legal loop holes." trustees, however, reacted favorab­ing for more than a five-year 
cal difficulties. judicial process "non-negotiable." In response, students questioned ly to the suggestion that studentsperiod. He had been previously Dane reported that testimony Schneider first told the student the validity of eliminating students be involved indirectly by allowingsuspended for the 1974-75 acade­instrumental to Hunter's suspen-representatives that the changes from the judicial board. The them to nominate members to thismic year for a parietals violation. 
sion was never presented in person were being made because students administrators and trustees a-panel.
Hunter was selected by the Seattle before any judicial board. Affida-on the board were under a great greed, however, that the University Under both the present !'Jld
Seahawks of the National Football vits by a security guard and two deal of stress from peer pressure. procedures are not the same as proposed systems, the finall appealLeague last week in a special draft, 
unidentified Badin residents were "It puts an inordinate responsibil-those in a court of law. goes to the University President
and will reportedly try out for the submitted to the University ity on students when their decision Although the students argued and his decision is final.
team. 
J-Board by Roemer, although ac-may cause a student to leave the the point, this stand is reinforced Schneider stated that the chan­
Fr. James T. Burtchaell, provost 1An acting provost will be named University in England. He chaired of the University of Notre Dame for in the near future, University the department from 1968 untii his seven years, announced his resig­President FatherTheodoreM. Res­appointment as provost in 1970 and nation to return to teaching in the burgh, said. An advisory commit­was promoted to full professor in Department of Theology. tee for selection of a permanent 1975. In his nine years as an The resignation, announced last successor, outlined in the Acade­administrator, he continued to Thursday, will be submitted to mic Manual and composed of five teach and to write, principally in Notre Dame's Board of Trustees on elected faculty members of the . the areas of biblical ethics and October 21, but Burtchaell relin­Academic Council and o:pe of its sacramental theology. He also quished administrative duties yes­student members, will be formed at lived in a student residence hall, terday. The 43-year-old priest was the first meeting of the Council. where he served eight years as 
appointed to the number two Burtchaell will be returning to assistant rector. position within the University by the theology faculty which he He has served on virtually every the trustees when they created the joined in 1966 after receiving his major University committee and his 
provost's office in 1970. Ph.D. in divinity from Cambridge off-campus professional activities 


The Observer 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's Wednesday, August 31, 1977 Vol. Xl'l, No. 2 
included major roles in the Ameri­to academic excellence." can Academy of Religion, the "He has attracted many talented 
council on the Study of Religion, scholars to Notre Dame," Res­the American Council of Learned burgh continued, "and has inau­Societies' Advisory Committee on gurated new academic programsthe Study of Graduate Education in and procedures to better the Uni­Religion, and the, Associ_ati~n of versity's educational enterprise. In American Colleges Commtsston on particular, he has been activelyReligion in Higher Education. engaged both in the current im­Burtchaell has also represented provement of faculty salaries and in 
Notre Dame in a variety of matters the amassing of permanent endow­of common concern to Indiana ment to assure continuing progress institutions of higher learning. in faculty compensation," he said. Hesburgh commented on the A native of Portland, Oregon,
resignation, "Xt is difficult to find Burtchaell entered the Congrega­
words adequate to thank Father tion of Holy Cross in 1952, was 
Burtchaell for his seven years of graduated from Notre Dame in 
superlative service. He has set a 1956 and was ordained in 1960. 
standard that will be difficult, if not Between 1956 and the reception of 
impossible, to match. The his Cambridge doctorate, he did 
provost's office has been character­graduate study and research in 
ized by a style that reflected his biblical theology at six institutions 
high intelligence, broad vision and in this country, Europe and the 
constantly courageous dedication Middle East. 
Officials silent on Hunter case, some issues remain confused . 
by Tom Byrne violations of parietals in Badin Dane added that pressure exerted 
Campus News Editor Hall. Although due to the lack of by Roemer on the pair to appear in official comment by the University person before the Board led them much remains unconfirmed. to ask University President Fr.
Almost three months after the sources say the allegations involv-Theodore Hesburgh to allow themevents that led to the suspension of ed the players' visits to a former to offer testimony in another man­AI Hunter, University Officials still student which were reported to ner. Hesburgh, according to Dane, refuse to comment on the subject, Roemer by former Badin Hall personally took the affidavits of the and some of the issues involved rectress Barb Schmich. two women and instructed Roemer • remain unclear. 
The accused students requested to submit them to the Board . 
Dean of Students James Roemer, a hearing of their cases before the According to one source, theciting the University's require­University Judicial Board, as out-affidavits of the women were
ments for confidentiality in the lined in du Lac, the student particularly dammaging to Hunterhandling of disciplinary matters, handbook. Although the option for alone, since they stated he hadyesterday declined to grant an such a hearing has always existed, been seen leaving Badin afterinterview on the subject. Hunter's it was the first time during parietals.
attorney, Robert L. Stephan of Roemer's two-year tenure as dean The University J-Board, how­South Bend, also refused to discuss of students that any student had ever, voted to acQuit all six of the any aspect of the case. 
exercised that right. Other stu-[continued on page 8]Hunter, a record-breaking run­A tree on this car belonging to an N.D. sophomore's parents. 
The unsuspecting parents parked the car behind the Rock and later 'found it smashed by the fallen tree. [Photo by Kevin Walsh] 

Teatlmony by aftldavlt cording to Dane the dean originally University," he said. He added by the Preamble of University ges were in a rough-draft stage and intended for the two students to that students would remain on the Rules and Regulations in da lAic that an updated version will be 
Hunter's problems with the Uni­appear in person. . hall judicial boards because "they which states, "The law of the submitted to the Student Life versity began when he was inform­"I have to respect ~. (Roemer) would never be in a position to campus, therefore, is somewhat CouncU in the near future. ed by Roemer that he and five other for that,'' remarked Dane. He cause a student to leave school.'' different from the law of the land.'' The administration hopes to athletes were being charged with wanted to take their testimony.'' Schneider also said that students It also states that due process at (c t' ed • ,...111 
the observer Wednesday. August 31, 1977 
,._--·Neu~s Briefs--­
t=:========Intemational Aborigines suing for land 
SIDNEY, Australia -Four aborigines are suing the Australian and British governments in Australia's highest court for $176 billion in compensation for loss of native lands over the past 200 years. Viewed as test cases, the suits were expected to be followed by more if the ·.-erdict is favorable. 
~~~~~~~~===Nationru Fanners to cut~ack supply 
WASHINGTON • President Carter has decided to require farmers to reduce their 1978 wheat plantings to cut back on the wheat supply and thereby bolster farm prices for wheat. 
Security guard kills 3 
NEWPORT, Ind. -A security guard at the Newport Army Ammunition Center, apparently incensed by a reprimand for insubordination, shot to death his supervisor and two other men last night. Two other persons, including an expectant mother, were wounded. 
.,.__On Campus Today_. 
6:30p.m. fih~ •. "st. augustine," sponsored by howard hall re!1g~ous commission and academic-cultural com­miSSion, howard hall. 
7 p.m. registration/orientation, american scene lecture series, carroll hall, smc, open to public. 
dessert for freshman women of smc/nd, stapleton7 p.m. 
lounge, sponsored by smc student activities. 
7:30p.m. film, "Garabandal: apparitions of our lady," sponsored by marian group of nd, free, open to public, library aud., organizational meeting after film. 
Weather 
_Humid with a 20 percent chance of thunderstorms th1s after~oon with highs in the mid to upper 80s. Cloudy With a 30 percent chance of more rain tonight and t~morrow. lows around 70 tonight and highs in the m1d to upper 80s tomorrow. 

Bricklayers die in accident 
INDIANAPOUS [AP] -Three ~ri.cklayers! on their final day of hnmg the mside of a power plant smokestack, plunged 155 feet to their deaths yesterday when a sc~ffold collapsed, showering 2,000 bncks upon them. 
It took workers an hour and a half to uncover and remove the bodies from inside the base of the new, 
*The Observer 
Night Editor: Bob Brink Asst. Night Editor: Paula Car­roll Llyout Staff: Margie Brassil, Joe Bauer Editorial Layout: Maureen Flynn Sports Llyout: Craig Chval Paul Stevenson Typists: Anne Giere, Trisha Meehan, Tom Powanda, Karen Chiames E.M.T.: Karen Chiames Day Editor: Kate Flynn Copy Reader: Phil Cackley 
d Llyout: Greg T rzupek, John O'Connell Photographer: leo Hansen 170-foot steel chimney at the 
Indianapolis Power & Light Co. 
generating plant. 
The victims were identified as 
Jim Browning, SO, Indianapolis; 
Harley Wheeler, 24, Alvordton, 
Ohio; and Elmer Pearcy, 66, 
Charleston, lll. 
A fourth worker on the scaffold, 
George Warren, 54, also of Char­
leston, DI., said he escaped by 
grabbing onto a new load of fire 
bricks being lowered from a crane 
into the top of the smokestack. 
"It was one of those imposible 
things that happened-there was no 
warning," said a shaken Warren, 
who was treated at a local hospital 
and released. He explained that 
one end of the scaffold dropped 
when one of its support beams at 
the top of the chimney suddenly 
snapped. 
The men had l)een on the job for· three weeks and were scheduled to complete their work yesterday af­ternoon. A utility company spokesman said the victims were just 17 rows of brjcks from the top when the accident happened. 
LOUIES BIG SPECIAL 25¢ DRAFT ·BEERS EVERY WED· NITE FROM 10-12. 


David E. Sparks resigns as Director of University Libraries 
The resignation of David E. Sparks as Director of University Libraries at Notre Dame was announced yesterday by Fr. James 
T. Burtchaell, provost. Sparks, who has held the post since 1971, will continue to serve as the chief library administrator until his suc­cessor is appointed. He is expected to remain at Notre Dame as a member of its library faculty. 
In announcing Spark's resigna­tion, Fr. Burtchaell observed that his tenure hascoincidedwith "years when the importance of the li­braries as a chief learning support has been newly emphasized on this campus." He credited to Sparks' leadership the fact the "people at Notre Dame and people who sus­tain us are much better aware of our need for enlarged library resources, and the significant role of library endowment in our Cam­paign for Notre Dame goals reflects this." 
The provost said that the pro­cedure for selecting a successor to Sparks is set forth in the Univer­sity's Academic Manual. It will involve consultations between the acting provost and the Faculty Library Committee and the com-
science at that institution. Pre­mittee on Appointments and Pro­motions of the Library. 

vious to his association with Yale, Prior to coming to Notre Dame Sparks was at the Library of six years ago, Sparks was associate 
Congress where he headed the librarian for public services at Yale 
Reference and Library Services University. He is a graduate of 
Section of the Science and Techno­logy Division. He also held library Swarthmore College with a mas­posts at the University of Vermont, ter's degree in Romance Linguis­the General Electric Company andtics from the Catholic University of America. He later studied library the ltek Corporation. 

Hotline needs volunteers 
The Women's Committee on Sex Offenses is seeking prospective volunteers for S-0-S (Sex Offense Staff), a confidential emotional support service . for victims of sexual abuse in St. Joseph County. 
Volunteers are men and women who can accompany a victim when seeking medical or legal attention. They are also available for tele­phone contact. 
The S-0-S volunteers can be reached 24 hours a day, 7 days a week through Hotline, a crisis inter vention telephone service. 
A ten-session training program will begin in the fall with evening sessions. Training focuses on the psychological and emotional needs of victims. Volunteers are also educated in the areas of medical and legal procedures, referrals and intake procedures. All areas of sexual abuse are discussed, from rape to child molestation to in­decent exposure. 
Anyone interested in becoming a volunteer or learning more about S-0-S can call Hotline (232-3344). 
The Observer Is published Mon­day tllrougll Friday except during exam and vac:~~tlon periods. The Observer Is published by students of Notre Dame and St. Mary's Collttge. Subscriptions may be purcflued for S20 per year CS10 per semester) from The Observer, Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame Indiana 46556. . The Observer Is a member of tile Associated Press. All repro­duction rights are reserved. 
= 



~EXCHANGE 
~ 
~ DROP 
BOOKS SOLD 
PICK ~ 
MONEY UP

8-sOpmOKS OFF 
~ 
12-5 pm Fri, Sept 2

Wed, Aug 31 
6-10 pm Tues, Sept 6 r...,.,

0 1 
Sat, Sept. 3 Wed, Sept 7 ~ 

== Thuls, Sept 1 
Sun, Sept 4 
= 

• <
IN THE GRADUATE STUDENT ~ UNION LAFORTUNE ~
~ 
•

OOFOR SR•. MARlETTA'S'\)~ 

& General Store 
__, . "' -t __ . 
• Water Beds 
• LEATHEA GOODS 
·MAGAZINES 
·Newspapers 
·CLOTHING 
•Posters· 
·CANDLEs· 
. • Jewelry 
... 
·Cards 
•INCENSE 
•Rugs
•Tapestry1 • Bedspreads \ ( • PIPES 
·PAPERS 
•Lites 
•NOVELTIES 
•BOOKS 
• PARPHERNALIA 
113 West 



MonroeSt 
On block east 
of Bus Station 
ONE BL.OQ< \\EST OF THE 
POST OFFICE 

Wednesday, August 31, 1977 ___t:..::h:..:..e.=......:o::...=:b-=s-=e:..:.rv.-:...=e:..:.r_____:3::.. 

Carroll converted for undergrads; dorm crowding called minimal 

will then be assigned to. the students in temporary housing. 
by Marian Ulicny 
Staff Reporter 
It is expected that ten_ to fifteen 

students out of the 1,625 accepted 
Overcrowding in on-campus will be "no-shows," John Goldrick, housing is minimal this year, director of admissions, explained. according to Fr. John Mulcahy, "We did not oversubscribe this director of housing. year," Goldrick stated. "There are 
Several freshmen are living in not more students, just more temporary accommodations until students who want to live on they can be placed with roommates campus."· in their own class. According to The only rise in student enroll­Keenan rector Fr. Richard Con­ment was a planned increase in the yers, a few men are sharing rooms number of undergraduate women. with residence assistants. Six Out of 400 admitted, 394 have women occupy the basement of registered, surpassing last year's Farley. total of 371. 
"As far as I'm concerned, we're In addition to pllicing freshmen, right on target this year," Mulcahy steps have been taken to alleviate commented. "My main concern is general overcrowding in University placing freshmen with other fresh­dorms. According to Mulcahy, the men. That's what will take a little on-campus population increases time." every year. Carroll Hall, formerly a 
Mulcahy estimated that it will be graduate student dorm, has been at least a week or two before it is converted to house undergraduates known how many accepted fresh­in order to relieve the crowded men will definitely not attend Notre conditions in Dillion and Morrisey. Dame this semester. Their places Grad students have moved to St. 
SMC-ND shuttle service may be limited due to cost 

by Maureen Sajbel Senior Staff Reporter 

Students who depend on the St. Mary's-Notre Dame shuttle bus service for evening and weekend use may have to find an alternative form of transportation after No­vember 26. After that date the shuttle will continue to run during class hours, but may not run on weekends or evenings for financial reasons. 
The cost of the service was estimated by St. Mary's Controller Jason Lindower, to be between $75,000 and $90,000. St. Mary's and Notre Dame each pay slightly over $25,000 to subsidize the service during class hours. The remainder of the cost goes to the students who pay 15 cents for evening and weekends rides. 
After operating at a loss for the 1976-77 school year, the South Bend Public Transportation Com­pany asked each school to pay a: 24 percent higher subsidy because of the low revenue during student subsidized hours. 
The losses are blamed on the large number of students who ride 
Observer seeks 
new reporters 

There will be a meeting tomor­row night for all who are interested in becoming Observer reporters at 
7:30 p.m. in the Observer offices on the top floor of LaFortune. All are welcome to attend and see what the Observer is like. 
H you want to write for the Observer and are unable to attend this meeting, call Kathy at 7471. 
NO announces tuition increase 
The University has announced a 

$250 tuition increase for under­graduates, bringing the total to $3,480 a year. 
The increase was approved re­cently by the institution's board of trustees. Fr. Theodore M. Res­burgh, University president, said in a letter to parents of undergra­duates that only a tuition rise would enable a balanced budget in the coming fiscal year. He did reas­sure parents, however, that "the trustees have no intention of rais­ing tuition to the extent that the student body becomes limited to the economically elite." Last academic year, $9 million in all forms of student aid was given to Notre Dame undergraduates. 
Fr. Hesburgh said undergrad­uate room and board charges will remain at an average of S1 ,350 a year. Tuition in Notre Dame's Graduate School is also 
the shuttle without paying the bus fare. The service will contrinue as it has in the past for a 90 day trial period. If in that time the shuttle operates at a loss, the service will be cut down to Monday through Friday daytime service only. 
Students and administrators from both St. Mary's and Notre Dame feel the evening and week­end service necessary for many reasons. 
"Our students go back and forth a great deal for social reasons. Also, they use the library and go to Notre Dame's religious services," said Mary Laverty, director of Student Activities at St. Mary's. 
Laverty and a committee of Notre Dame and St. Mary's students are currently working on a proposal to stop student violations of the bus fare system. 
"We are very much open to student suggestions and comments on the shuttle," Laverty declared. 
"Those who are not paying show 

they don't appreciate the service," 
added Bro. Viator Grzeshkowiak, 
budget coordinator for Student 
Affairs at Notre Dame. 
Students said the discontinuation 

of the service "would be like 
disconnecting the two schools," 
and would "greatly limit joint 
activities of the schools if students 
had to walk back and forth." They 
also sighted problems that could 
arise in such areas as security, 
parietal violations and an. increase 
in hitchhiking. 
Joseph Hall. 
"The University was uncertain what to do with Carroll, whether to renovate it, or tear it down and build a new residence hall," Car­roll rector Bro. Paschal Pesce stated. "I imagine it was always in the plans as something kept in reserve until it was needed." 
Currently, 69 men are housed in Carroll, 55 of them freshmen. According to Pesce, the dorm is not crowded and is "very comfort­able." 
A single student has been given housing in the Student Health Center. Sr. Marion Ruidl, health center administrator, explained that the student is living in a guest room on the first floor, away from the patient area. 
"He's well provided for, but the situation is very temporary," she stated. 

The waiting list for on-campus rooms currently holds the names of 200 men and. over 140 women. Some of these students were also on last year's list. 
"By last year's mid-semester break, I was able to put everyone on campus who wanted on, but some students had the problem of a nine-month lease, Mulcahy explained, adding, "These stu­dents have been carried over until this year." 
Mulcahy stressed that he could begin to arrange housing for the waiting students, particularly the men, as soon as the freshmen have been placed. 
New seminar 
--·---­
offered by 
Arch. dept. 

A new seminar, "Landscape Design (Arch 598)," is being offered by the Architecture Depart­ment this fall. Students from all disciplines who possess a concern for the irritation which Man's activities and structures cause in the landscape are encouraged to enroll in the course. The seminar will be concerned with how Man's activities and structures can be integrated into the landscape. The seminar's goal is to develop a method to analyze Man-landscape situations and how to translate the solution into physical design. 
A meeting will be held for all concerned, Thursday, September 
. 1, at 8:30 a.m. in room 405 of the Architecture Building. Persons unable to attend this meeting may contact Prof. Esmer Bellalta in room 405 of the Architecture Building or by calling 7644. Enrollment in the course is based on an interview with Bellalta. 


Co10e On Out and Let the Good TilDes Roll! 
*The Best in Live Music *Dance Party Every Monday • • Night! 

• • 0ozE e00•••
. . 
:~~·······.~·.
Q ~ • e . ~ .
:~ ... -..~: 
:cc: SECOND: P! 
ralsed~~~~··a-............. 
~~~IIIIIIIIIIIIIIII....IIIIIIMMIIIIii~MMiillll~~~~4 
.. ' 
~ 
-

• 
I t 
I 
I 





~~~. 
atlf8n'S':, 
fA!ar.eltousl :Litt;J-ft, 
1935 Lmcolnway East-comer Ironwood &lincolnway Ph. 287-2861 
... 
GRANTS 
5COT¢H 
9'4
Qts. 
CANAD.IAN CLUB 


J~ SJ399 

v.o. 
1.75 
1397
Iter 
CROWN 
ROYAL 
gss
5th 
CASE DISCOUNTS 5% OFF ::u: 10% Off ·:::! 
750 ml replaces 5th 
1.75 litw replaces V, c•ls. 
l ., 
liiii•.MI:>H 
9! 
OPEN MONDAY thru SATURDAY 9 to 8 

fREE'PioKING 
-~~--~----. ~. 

~-.----~~----~·~----~----~--~~----------~~----~~~~--~----------------~----------.­
Wednesday, Auaust 31, 1977 the observer 
-~ 



Danehy case pends; trial arlticipated in late fall 
by Joa~~ Fremeaa Senior StaffReporter 

The case of Professor James P. Danehy vs. Notre Dame is still awaiting trial, pending the court's decision on the University's motion to dismiss the case. 
In a recent letter sent to interes­ted friends, Danehy, a tenured profesor of Organic Chemistry, offered an update of his case against the University. Danehy filed suit against the University last spring when he was notified that, according to University regula­tions, he would automatically be­comeProfessor Emeritus at age 65. He was later notified he would not be allowed to teach his summer course in Organic Chemistry. Danehy reached the age of 65 in June. 
According to University policy, his position as tenured professor would then be reevaluated on a yearly basis. Danehy believes that "compulsory retirement, based on age alone, is arbitrary, dis criminatory and unjust," and the purpose of his suit is to prove discrimination on the part of the University against professors who have reached the age of 65. 
Danehy, as the plaintiff in his case contends that "once a profes­sor has tenure, his right should be well protected." A brief, filed last April, in response to the Univer-
Problems delay construction work 
by Diane WUson Staff Reporter 

With the engineering building addition five weeks behind, the projected date of completion is still 
Jan  1,  1979,  according  to  Mike  
Bryant,  project  director  from  
Hickey Construction.  

Some of the reasons for the delay include delivery problems of mater­ials as well as rain washouts that had to be re-dug by hand, said Bryant. One major problem was the shoring up of the south wall of the existing building, which was not in the original plan, he added. 
While Bryant does not expect any more immediate problems, if the weather this winter is very cold, there could be additional delays. Some work will be able to be done in the interior of the part of the , building already completed. But no outside work will be able to be done if it gets really cold, explained Bryant. 
The project director is hoping that work days will soon be able to be extended to help make up some of the lost time. At the present, though, this is not certain. 
Saturday 

sity's motion to dismiss the case, which was also filed in April states, "Professor James P. Danehy could claim discrimination against him when other faculty members, both younger than 65 and older, have been retained in employment, and further when non-faculty members are encouraged to remain in em­ployment, and further when non­faculty members are encouraged to remain in employment past age 65 and including age 72." 
The brief continues, "Danehy has a vested right by tenure to continued employment as deter­mined by his single contract, plaintiff has also presented the question whether the contract pro­cedures followed have conclusively determined that · he was not the best man for the job. Finally, everything done must in no way discriminate against plaintiff's right to work, so as to deny him equal protection of the laws." 
Danehy states in his letter that he decided to file suit when his attempts to gain continuation of his position proved unsuccessful. When he received no reply from his last letter to Fr. James Burtchaell, then university provost, he con­tacted his attorney, Paul B. Kus­bach, and a complaint was filed in St. Joseph Superior Court Feb. 28, when the University had still failed to consider his position. 
The University, represented by Phillip J. Faccenda, then filed a motion to dismiss the case on the grounds that Danehy failed to comply with a certain Indiana trial rule of procedure. 
Before the end of last MlltCh, Danehy was granted a change of venue to the Starke County Circuit i Court in Knox, Indiana. Kusbach, through the court, asked the ad­ministration to furnish the names of all faculty members who, "dur­ing the last ten years, had reached 65 years and had been allowed to continue in full or part-time em­ployment, for how many years they had post-65 employment, and by what process they had arrived at the decision in each case,'' Danehy's letter states. 
The five members of the chemis­try department Committee on Appointments and Promotions, (CAP), were asked to make depo­sitions regarding their actions in the case. 
On May 4, the hearing convened to decide whether or not to dismiss the case. That day, "Two substan­tive actions took place,'' according to Danehy. Faccenda restored Danehy's summer employment, and the judge ordered that "the CAP depositions, thrice delayed by the administrations' two attorneys, must be made within two weeks." 
The five CAP members were individually questioned May 19 by Kusbach. Proceedings were "largely frustrated by the fact that the administration's hired attorney objected and refused to allow his clients to answer 77 times." 
The court convened again July 

29. "The judge ruled that the administration supply the written interrogatories originally requested by Kusbach on March 9." 
Because the judge was starting 



carpet remnants 
SINCE 1952 
dismntinued samples: 18 in x27 in $1 ea many many sizes example: 12 ft x 3 ft $9.50 12 ft X 9ft $39.00 
MON. THURS. FRI. TILL 8:30P.M. TUES•• WED. TILL 6 P.M. SAT. TILL .5:30 P.M. SUNDAY I -.5:30 P.M. 
315 N. IRONWOOD DRIVE 
ACROSS FROM MARTIN'S SUPERMARKET MISHAWAKA IND. 
259-5638 
LINCOlN WAY IAlt 

--,r-

Student Union 


REFRIGERATOR RENTALS 
Sept. 3 10am-4pm 

Keenan Hall Basement 
available to &tint Mary's cam us also 
.... 

his vacation the next day, he would At present, Danehy is not em­not have had a chance to go over ployed by the university. He hopes the 130 page deposition or rule on a ruling on the motion to dismiss the 77 disputed questions until the case will be made by mid after Aug. 15. The judge is still October and that if the decision is I r~~viewing the deposition for de­in his favor, the case will go to trial · cision. some time in the late fall. 
Welcome to Shula's the tRock of Michiana' 
' .. 


\ 
elive Music eDisco 
• Foxy Lady Night 
Every Wednesday eMust be 18 e1 Mile North of the 
State Line 




SBDLJrS,
Kl-rB CLUB 
On U.S. 31 between Niles and South Bend -Free Parking -Ph. 683-4350 
CONTINUOUS ENTERTAINMENT FROM 9 P.M. TILL 2 A.M. 



f,.v_··--:-_~-~--~":!1!'*"";'\..-FREE SEARCH SERVICE 1~'-~::~~ FAST ERY ON SPECIAL ORDERS 
..:".:--.....~~~-:-~r:-:..... 1 MILE NORTH of 'N-0­JI(MN{ 8 ..\IL~ 
Paul Pugh. Bookseller 
FREE COFFEE & CONVERSATION" 'Hours,JO 9. M-Th I 10·7. F&S/ 12·6. Sunday Jmiper 10 Clelleland. linn ri!#ll. !hen left a1 ~siqn. 272-5520 

WElCOM.E STUDENTS 

• 
TMOS 

• 
lllllftS 

• 
EICIIIHS 

• 
TOSTAHS 


.,....s 
•tMOHI 
• lfU TACt 
............ ,..,.. 
SCOTTSDALE MALL 
• SPMISI ItT HI
291-3142 • CIUSIIIIID 
............................ • 
MORE AND MORE : 
,,..,..,,.,, ,.,.,.,.,."" 
MEATlESS TACOS, TAIIALES, EICIRAtAS, lllllftS, lUI tACOS...~ TISTAf:l. !1,___ _ 
SPECIAL FOR STUDENTS . FREE SOFT DRINK WHEN YOU BUY 3 ITEMS 




~------~-------------­
~---------------~r-----~----~----~----~ --~--~----~--------------~ 
Guilty On Two Counts 
Over two weeks ago, the University of Notre Dame and AI Hunter reached a settlement in their dispute over disciplin­ary proceedings in which Hunter was involved. Both parties to the dispute are apparently satisfied, but the use of the rarely-convened University Judicial Board resulted in questionnable actions on the part of University administrators. 
The first difficulty in assessing the events involved is that much of du Lac is vague enough to be subject to differing interpretations. This became so obvious during the course of the legal action that the administration and trustees plan extensive revisions in the section on ''University Rules and Regulations.'' 
But the rules are clear enough to indicate that Hunter was questionnably deprived of his right to "access to the names of prospective witnesses and the right to confront them openly at the hearing, except in extraordinary circum­stances as provided in the rules of the University Judicial Board" (Item 11, "Student Rights in Disciplinary Proceed­ings," du Lac). 
The qualifying clause of this item was invoked in Hunter's case with no apparent justification. Were the witnesses in some physical or psychological danger? Univer­sity President Fr. Theodore Hesburgh made the decision to protect their anonym­ity, and only he can give the reason. 
Yet John Lucey, assistant professor of Aerospace and Mechanical Engineering and chairman of the Judicial Board, observed to Hesburgh that ''the decision to allow the two (witnesses) to remain unnamed and unexamined at the hearing was a disservice to them as maturing adults and a disservice to the University's judicial procedure.'' 
''If we do not ask our students to accept their responsibilities to this community," Lucey asked, "how can we expect them to honor their responsibility to the larger community upon leaving the University?'' 
The absence of the two witnesses hampered the Board in its attempt to reach a fair and just decision. Their inability to assess the testimony of two absent and anonymous persons doubtless had a strong effect on the Board's verdict. 
The second abuse of judicial regulations in the Hunter case falls under Item 2d in "Disciplinary Procedures," do Lac: ''Final decisions of the Dean of Students, hearing officer or the University Board may be appealed to the Appeals Board within five school days after receiving a written notification of such final decision ... " 
The hearing took place May 9. Judicial Coordinators John Talbot and Steve Dane were told by Roemer that Hunter would have until midnight to file for appeal (presumably because May 9 was the last class day of the semester). Yet Roemer ~imseH appealed the case on May 24, fifteen days past the deadline! And despite this violation of the time limit regulation, the Appeals Board accepted Roemer's appeal!! 
Both of the instances cited above indicate that the University abused its own judicial process in AI Hunter's case. Whether Hunter is innocent or guilty may never be known and is immaterial to the considerations at hand. No judicial system is guaranteed to punish all of the guilty and protect all of the innocent. We can only trust that if the system is fair and is exercised by men and women of good will, then justice will be served to the best of human ability. In this case, the University seems to have fallen short on both counts. 

seriously, .folks !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 

Right to Life 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii._. art buchwald 
WASHINGTON--Every time you 
have a "Son of Sam"-type inci­
dent, there is an outcry for some 
kind of national gun legislation 
which will hopefully prevent guns 
from getting into the hands of the 
"sickies," of which this country 
seems to have more than its share. 
Then, as soon as the publicity dies 
down, the matter is forgotten until 
the next main media event gets 
people excited again. 
The reason you can't get Con­gress to pass any decent antigun legislation is that one of the strongest lobbies in Washington is the National Rifle Assn., and the weakest groups are the antigun people. 
Finstermeister, who has been trying to get Congress to address itself to the problem, may have come up with a solution. 
He .told me, "We can't get congressmen or senators to budge on gun control because no one pays any attention to us. They think we're kooks." 
"You're a voice crying in the wilderness," I admitted. 
"But there is a solution. I think the gun control people should hook up with the Right to Life propo­nents." 
"They're against abortion," I said. 
"That's true. But why are they a~ainst · abortion? Because thev maintain you're killing someone when you remove a fetus. Since they're interested in saving the life of a person, it follows that they should work for gun control as well." 
"But the National Rifle Assn. maintains that guns don't kill people--people kill people." 
"That's true, but the majority of people killed were killed with guns. Now there is some question of whether or not a fetus is a person. For the sake of getting the Right to Life people on our side, I'm willing to buy 'the fetus is a person' theory if they'll buy our thesis that a person being shot by a gun is also a live human being and should have the same protection as an unborn baby." 
"That's a tough one for the Right to Life lobby. Being antiabortion is one thing. But when you want them to come out against killing real people with guns, you're opening a whole new can of beans." 
"It's the same can," Finster· meister insisted. "You're either for life or against it. Whether it's a doctor who takes a life performing an abortion or someone with a handgun drilling his wife or best friend, you're snuffing out some­one. The Right to Life people should be able to understand that. Even HEW Secretary Joe Califano should be able to understand it." 
"But if you introduce gun control into the Right to Life movement, you might have a split in the organization," I protested. "Many Right to Life people own guns." 
"That's not my problem. They have to be consistent. If they're going to march on city halls, state capitals and the halls of Congress to save life, they can't ignore the gun issue. Listen, I have the greatest respect for the Right to Life movement. It is one of the most well-organized lobbies in this country, and they have a lot of clout with legislators. That's why I want them on our side. 
"Right now I can only produce four pickets for an antigun bill. But if the Right to Life organization 


joined forces with us, I could get iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiijplliiiiiiiii
10,000 in 24 hours. Those people really care. They could truly give the National Rifle Assn. a run for their money." 
"It sounds good on paper," I said. "How are you going to propose the marriage of your two organizations?" 
"I'm not. You are, in your column," Finstermeister said. 

"Not me," I protested. "My office isn't equipped to handle the telephone calls and mail if I so much as suggested it. You're going to have to do this one on your own." 
*The Observer~ 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's 
The Observer is published by students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of either institution. The news is rep?rted as accurately and as objectively as poss1ble~ ~d1torials represent the opinion of a majority of the Ed1tonal Board. Commentaries, opinions and letters are the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and letters are encouraged to promote the free expression of varying opm1ons on campus. 
EDITORIAL BOARD 
Marti Hogan Editor-in-Chief Martha Fanning Managing Editor Bob Brink Asst. Managing Ed. Kathy Mills Executive Editor Maureen Flynn Editorial Editor Barb Breitenstein Exec. News Editor Tom Byrne Campus Editor Jean Powley St. Mary's Editor Katie Kerwin News Editor Paul Stevenson Sports Editor Pat Cole Special Projects Ed. Dav1d O'Keefe Features Editor 
Wednesday, August 31, 1977 


P.O.BOXQ 

Eclltor's Note: The foUowlng letter was~ received after The Observer stopped publication last spring. The subject matter Is always timely, however, so we print It with this note of eiplanation. 
Dear Eclltor: 
In reference to John Hannan's reply to Dr. Stewart's opinion column concerning Blacks and Notre Dame, I would like to address myself to one specific point. Mr. Hannan points out that the entire Black student population at Notre Dame consititutes 2.5 percent of the student body; it should also be pointed out that this figure (it was actually 2.2 percent for academic year 1976-1977) was substantially lower that Northwest­em, the University of Pittsburgh, St. Louis University, Brandeis as well as numerous other universi­ties, and yes including Harvard and 
M.I.T. Perhaps the Notre Dame Community ought to address itself to the question of why this is so, expecially in view of our oft-quoted insistutional ideals and Father Hesburgh' s special interest in civil and human rights. Maybe Dr. Stewart is telling us that it is about time Notre Dame translated its rhetoric and lip service into more action. A larger Black student population here would surely go a long way to help eliminate many of the problems recently brought to light. Yes, this will take more money--but shouldn't we put our money where our mouth is? 
Morton S. Fuchs Professor of Biology 
"DAILY NEIA/5~ Yf3,-TH/5 NO, 1/NO I'MGErT!f-.13 PROMOTION, 15 •SON Tll?flJ OF JtJSTS/T­ktlLERMAN OF ARNOlD T!/o.KiHER£ 
HERE. AND MARY lNG THe !1l!NTPE£L \ /£/BERMAN" OFF THE WALL. AGAIN! ! NEI/RMY 
/ HUTPIATEi 
SURE/ 7HEY
l.d&L/.., UKJlJ/..0 Y(}(f HAMIL!..f.. GEE, 
MR. SJN, 
f)(}Ni CIIR£/ NO
CARE 70 Slf;AK TO I OONTKJ.JOIJJ. I 
IIAVE3YOU 
ON£3 CAR£5 UN­
MR. fi/IM!Uf fitAlSO 7HOli71fT H/5 
TR/£0 711/3 
U.5S YOU HAY£
PJRITCS/IBOtlT IN-PI£A5 70 SAM '---· . ­
POt!e&? 
II PllTTERN/
"!CIST!NG NI3/AJ KINO OF 

WERE YOU CLOSED OUT OF~lJT 'N' PASTE 101? WELL, ~'S STILL 

~PLENTY OF ROOM IN SL..Dfl 'N' WAX 
H you'd U~u?_ to be fee to wield a ruor ~without !UUhig anyddna more Important than y~ own flngen, The Observer Ia loolWg for yoat t t The Eclltorfal Depart­. IDbnt needs someone with the •al of 1111 Vdst, the sldD of a surgeon and the scrapie& of a coUege administrator to lay oat the editorial page one night a week. Mast be able to count lllld .pell. C.U Maureen, 1715 or 6856. 'Ibis Ia a paid _,. posldon. 


' . 

WhytomorrowS professionals ·choose Hewlett--Packard's first family ofadvanced calculators today. 
They're proven performers. In space. On Everest. In the 
labs of Nobel laureates. Since we built the first, back in 
1972, our advanced calculators have been tested by mil, 
lions worldwide, and they've passed. 
They have staying power. Today's classroom prob, 
lems quickly grow into tomorrow's on,the,job problems. 
HP calculators are designed and built to handle both. 
They're investments in a future that happens fast. 
They're straightforward. "Advanced" doesn't mean 
"complicated~' Itmeans"uncomplicated~' HP calculators are, 
above all, straightforward. 
They're easy to use. HP calculators not only grow 
with you; they grow on you. They feel natural, comfortable, 
because we designed them to work like you think. 
They're efficient. HP calculators take the direct 
approach. All feature RPN, a time,saving, parenthesis, free 
logic system. All programmables feature a memory,saving 
keycode merging capability. 
They're personal. Professionals design their own ways 
to solve their particular problems, and they expect their 
calculators to be versatile enough to accommodate them. 
Ours are. HP·29C. Our NEW 
There's a variety. To say we offer a full line is an Programmable with Continuous Memory.
understatement. We offer a choice. That's why we publish 
$195.00*
a unique "Selection Guide" that spells out the capabilities 
Its 98-step program memory and cal program memory capacity to 175of each. Your HP dealer has your free copy. 16 of its 30 storage registers stay "on" keysrrokes and beyond. Insert/delete 
(800) 648-4711.The number to call for more informa, even when the calculator is "off.' so you editing. Conditional and unconditional can store programs and data for as long branching. Three levels of subroutines.
tion and your HP dealer's name and address (unless you're 
as you wish. Continuous Memory plus 10 decision tests. Exceptional versatility in Nevada, in which case you can call323,2704). fully merged keycodes bring typi-at an exceptional price. 




I e 3 6 1 ~ 2
" 5 
•;o... S£G1N '.I
' 
..,
""' '"
'" 
l;;f All Pit FY
" 
,. 
~ ~u lit 'S10 -pi 
RESET 1:.'·· ClfiAR
'" 
I!HTEI! t. Qll % ~ 
11111111 
,, 
11111111 
,. 

liiUIIII 
••••,_ 
r:m Ml:WI..tli.TT • PA(;KARO 712 

HP-21 Scientific. HP-22 Business Management. I HP-25 HP-27 HP-67 Fully Programmable. $80.00* $125.00* Scientific Programmable. Financial/Statistical/Scientific. $450.00* Performs all standard math and trig A new kind of management tool. $125.00* $175.00* The most powerful pocket calcula­calculations, the latter in radians or Combines financial. statistical and Solves repetitive problems auto-Contains the most preprogrammed tor we've ever built. ZZ4-step program degrees. Performs rectangular/polar con-mathematical capabilities. Enables busi-matically. Enter your formula once; scientific functions we've ever offered, memory. Z6 storage registers. "Smart" 
versions. Displays in fixed decimal ness students to forecast faster, more eas-thereafter only variables. Requires no plus comprehensive statistical and finan­card reader records contents of both. or scientific notation. Our lowest priced ily and with greater certainty. I software, no "computer" language. Our cial functions. Lets you forecast, allocate Fully merged keycodes increase typical scientific. . lowest priced programmable. We also of-resources, analyze costs-quickly. program memory capacity up to 450 key­
fer an HP-Z5 with Continuous Memory, strokes and beyond. Superior edit­the HP-ZSC, for $160.00~ It retains pro­ing capability. grams and data even when turned "off.' 

HEWLETT~PACKARD
f 616/51 

0$UgJI:CSted retail price, excluding applicable Slate and local taxes­Coi"M'notal U.S.• Alaska and Hawaii. Displays ire ):, :t,q~raphed separately to simulate typical appearance. Dept. 658), 1000 N.E. Circle Blvd., Corvallis. Oregon 97330 
1 

..._. 
AVAILABLE AT THE AD. BOOKSTORE 
. ~ -.... ., 
l--~-,..,_·...,.·_:.~···_·-,..·.,..,·....··:...:·..i,/~··.:.··_·:.,.'·;.;···,....··;.·,··:...:,_,.~~···..;..''.;..'_..:..···..:..·.:.',:..,•...:.':..:...·..,...·.....· ":"•.-:-·_-..~--~--:--:-:----____\ ~-------·;•~•• '•••••{ 'M~~·~· __·_,_··___._._.~.~.>~·~-~-~-~~~~~?·~~\~~~--~-------­

I 
l 
l 
1 
1 
--1 
~ ~ ~ ----.~ 
,1 I ~ 
~ 


~----~~---~---~---~ ~--------.
..------------------------------------~------­
the observer Wednesday, August 31, 19n
8 

-----------~~~----~--­

Carter working on urban policy 
WASHINGTON [AP] ·Working in the glare of public complaints that the administration bas ignored the plight of the nation's poor and its cities, President Carter is stepping up his efforts to deliver a national urban policy, sources said yester­day. 
An official in the Department of Housing and Urban Development said a national urban strategy should be completed early next year, perhaps for inclusion in Carter's January state-of-the-union address. 
Several sources said there is likely to be no dramatic initiative in the program, in the words of one White House aide, "certainly noth­ing comparable to the Great Soci­ety." 
Treasury Department officials a~:e expected to recommend some v~rsion of a domestic development bank that would provide low­interest loans to private companies doing business in the struggling cities. Carter has said he would consider such a oroposal. 

NOTRE DAME SAINT .MARY'S THEATRE ANNOUNCES TRYOUTS FOR 
THE COMEDY OF ERRORS 
by William Shakespeare Wed., Aug. 31 • 7 pm O'Laughlin Callbacks, Sept. 1 -7 pm 
Audition information available in Speech and drama oHice Rm. 110, Moreau Hall, Saint Mary's 
STYLES OF ATHELETIC SHOES TENNIS WEAR WARM UP SUITS SWIM WEAR &T-SHIRTS THLETIC BAGS 

100 CENTER 
255•7770 

t 
MISHAWAKA 
~N...~~~----------~------------------------..1 
The President was angered last month by criticism froiD civil rights leaders that he had neglected the problems of the nation's black community and others who are poor, and of the cities in general. 
At a meeting of black civil rights leaders Monday in New York City, Rev. Jesse Jackson told reporters, "We put President Carter in office and from him we will not suffer from callous ne~lect." 
White House Press Secretary Jody Powell reported Carter's re­quest and told reporters: "We can't expect to have everyone pleased with what we do but we will do our best.'' 
A spokesman for HUD said Carter's urban and regional de­velopment task force has been having daily work sessions for two weeks preparing staff work on the urban stratel{V. 
The task force is a cabinet-level group headed by HUD Secretary Patricia Harris and including secre­taries W. Michael Blumenthal of Treasury, Juanita Kreps of Com­merce, Ray Marshall of Labor, Brock Adams of Transportation, and Joseph Califano of Health, Education and Welfare. 
The Carter team already has indicated its intention to stress economic development activities for troubled cities, rather than broad social programs. 
AI~Jng these lines, Congress is considering Carter's request for $400 million for economic develop­ment through HUD and the Com­merce Department is lobbying within the administration to triple its $320 million economic develop­ment administration budget. 


Officials silent on Hunter case 
[continued from page 1] 

accused students. In a letter to Hesburgh explaining the decision, Board chairman John Lucey, assis­tant professor of Aerospace and Mechanical Engineering, reported that the board had ''a most difficult time in assessing the written testimony provided by anonymous witnesses. Had they been present, and their testimony verified and amplified under direct cross exam­ination, it is possible that some, or 
all,  of  our  decisions  might have  
been  added that  
the  testimony  
students  
s  

mbr 


J!nigbtg 

MEN'S HAIRSTYLING Welcome Freshman · 
... ----o:··. ...... ,.,_ ... -----··.-··-· 7•' 
A, n6w ;~o~c~pt·in: hQirstylmg for men. Fost.service, carefree cuts and bier* styfes. lcxoted on oyr IC>Wer level -Mth itS own private entrance. Complete JM:ivoc:Y in indi'lidual-ityling units. 
:$hompoo, cut, bir dry-_
Miss Sharon Branch Manager 
.' a8cJ ~~ti~~ --:--~ Sl.50 ~~M PLETE
-

acquited on a technicality ap­parently motivated the administra­tion to appeal the case to the next highest level in the judicial system, the University Appeals Board, composed of one student, one faculty member and one adminis­trator. Roemer appealed the decision on May 24, citing as reason for appeal an "abuse of discretion" by the University Judi­cial Board in its failure to consider the written evidence. In response, Dane and Talbot sent a letter to Fr. Carl Ebby, chairman of the Appeals Board, which argued that there were no extraordinary cir­cumstances applying to Hunter's case which necessitated the use of written evidence. 
The letter also asserted that the decision to accept the affidavits as 
i!J 
-· 
A new laundromat has been opened for male N.D. students in the basement of Badin Hall. [Photo by Leo Hansen] 


Laudromat open for males 
by Rosemary Mills Staff Reporter 
Acting upon a 1976 Student Government proposal, a laundro­mat for male students has been opened in the basement of Badin Hall. 
According to Bro. Keiran Ryan, assistant vice-president for Busi­ness Affairs, the six washers and dryers will be available on a 24-hour basis. The coin-operated machines will cost the standard price of 35 cents for a wash cycle and ten cents for one dry cycle. 
The proposal was originally sub­
mitted -to the office of Business Affairs by the Student Government in November of 1976 in response to the numerous criticisms voiced by male students about the laundry service. The proposal was passed on to the office of Business Affairs to find a location other than LaFortune Student Center for the laundromat. Lack of space and the problem of unpleasant odors were cited as reasons why LaFortune would not be acceptable. 
Although there are no plans at present for machines to be added, the idea might be considered if the demand were great enough, Ryan said. 
testimony "was arbitrarily made by only one person -Fr. Hesburgh. We cannot understand why he would do this, nor do we under­stand what authority he has to do it." 
Hunter, Talbot and Dane also objected to the irregular appeal, which came over two weeks after the last possible date for appeal as specified in du Lac. 
"Roemer said he convened the Appeals Board because he didn't think we wanted to go right to Hesburgh," noted Dane. A major contention of Hunter's subsequent lawsuit was that the University violated its own procedures by appealing after their established deadline, the last class day. 
[continued oa page 10] 
.I 
I . 
I 
' 
~ 




1mttn's ( astle 
~ 54533 TERRACE LANE .' Tues., Wed.. Sot. 8:30 -5:30, Thurs. & Fri. 8:30 -8:30 

~-··"';_....._.........~---...;..:·1.:.:.................·-·.........,;.r~~~g~~~~~:?~-~;!o"-.;.;i~~:::~~=-9~'-.......__..........--..-_,. ~. 
...-­



$70,150,000 already received Wednesday, Aug~st 31, 1977 __t_h...::....e__;;o:........:b'--"s-=e_r_ve.;:;_;r;.....__-----'9­
Campaign for NO passes half-way point 
by Marti Hogan according to John T. Ryan, Uni­tion, student aid, campus ministry Ryan and Ernestine Carmichael, might contribute SSOOO to SSO,OOO. Editor-in-Chief versity trustee and chairman of the and a variety of research, educa­trustees and co-chairpersons of the Hesburgh announced that the and campaign, $57.8 million or 45 tional and service programs, expe­campaign; James Frick, vice pres-campaign "will involve the whole Katie Kerwin percent of the goal, has already cially in the area of the Catholic ident for public relations and dev-country if not the world." Tele­News Editor been committed to the program in Church. elopment at Notre Dame; Paul phone calls and direct mail will be advance gifts. In addition to the endowment, Foley, chairman of the Committee , used in the campaign process,"It's the most important thing $29.3 million is slated for physical on Public Relations and Develop-although personal interviews will 
The Campaign for Notre Dame, a that has ever been done at this facilities including a classroom­ment of the Board of Trustees; be conducted as much as possible.five-year development program in­University," said Hesburgh. He faculty office building, a chemical Stephan and workers for the Na-As the ninth largest campaignstituted to increase the University's said he is confident that the drive research structure, and an under­tiona! Campaign Committee. One now in progress in American endowment, this summer passed will be a success. graduate residence hall. Also, alumnus and campaign worker universities, the Campaign for the half-way mark to its goal of According to Hesburgh, Notre extensive renovation is scheduled commented, "I'm sure the invasion Notre Dame will more than double $130 million. Dame people have "a divine dis­for the Administration Building of Europe was less well-planned." the $52 million goal set in Summa 
To date, $70,150,000 in gifts and satisfaction if they're not sure of and Washington Hall. its last fund-raising drive, which
Over the summer, the campaign commitments has been received, the very best... We're not only The campaign also seeks $8.7 
concluded in 1972. Between 1960entered a new phase, which has

according to James Murphy, vice­going to make our goal, we're million in unrestricted funds to and 1972, Notre Dame raised more
been dubbed "Special Gifts."
president for public relations and going to surpass it." underwrite current operations. than $108 million, much of which
Luncheons and dinners are being
development. Edmund Stephan, director of the The initial stages of the actual went to construct the library and
held across the United States forThe goal of the campaign, kicked University Board of Trustees, sees campaign began in January 1976 the Athletic and Convocation Cen­
potential benefactors. University
off April 15, is to "undergird our an "enormous change in the in­when the University used a unique ter (ACC). That total included S12
representatives speak to the guests 
academic future with dramatically terest and involvement" of the approach termed "the fly-in." In a million in matching funds from the
about the campaign and its goals. 
increased permanent endow­Board in this campaign and states series of 20 weekends, 120 friends Ford Foundation through its "Spe­ment," said University President that the Board "has great confi­of Notre Dame .were flown in for a Events have been held already in cial Program in Education,'' de­
dence in its (the campaign's) Fort Wayne, the Calumet region of 
Theodore Hesburgh. weekend on campus to observe how signed to create regional centers of 
At present, Notre Dame's $108 success.'' the University was progressing at northern Indiana, Milwaukee, academic excellence. million endowment is the largest of The Campaign for Notre Dame the present time and to learn the Minneapolis-St. Paul, and Pitts­Hesburgh noted that many other any Catholic university, but smaller grew out of the recommendation of "hopes and aspirations" of Notre burgh. Dinners and luncheons are universities seem to be having
scheduled in Chicago, New York
than that of many leading indepen­the Committee on University Prior­Dame for the future. Later these difficulty with their campaigns, but dent universities. Hesburgh cited ities (COUP) which reported in friends, including trustees, alumni City, Washington, D.C., Los An­that Notre Dame's fund raising
the reason for increasing the December 1973. The committee's and members of the advisory geles and San Francisco for the drive has met with "enormouscoming months.
endowment saying, "If you take recommendations were then form­councils, started the campaign with enthusiasm" so far. He added that the ten universities in this country ed into development goals after pledges or contributions. During the next two years, "vis-there is still a good deal of work left with the largest endowment, you involved consultation with Univer­From that time the drive has iting teams" will be traveling to 42 to do. "We hope when the · will have the ten best universities sity trustees, members of its advi­been planned and organized by key cities in the country to solicit campaign is over, we will be ranked r in this country." sory councils and leaders. many people including John T. from "2000-plus prospects" who with the 10-15 top universities." 
--~~~~------~-----------­
Almost 75 percent of the cam­The major portion of the endow­paign's goal, $92 million will be set ment will cover named professor­aside for Notre Dame's endowment ships, the Memorial Library collec-
AdministratiOn changes in dorms~. student affairs 
by Kevin M. Walsh president. He felt that each job 
Staff Reporter involved too much work, thus 
making it difficult to devote enough 
time to either one. Green, how-
A number of administrative ever, remains in Sorin as an changes have been announced for assistant rector. this year. Notably, Fr. Gregory Eleven halls have new rectors or Green has assumed the duties of assistant rectors but, according to assistant vice president for Student Green, such a turnover is c ommon Affairs, replacing Fr. Terrance each year. Many such staff Lally, who is presently continuing members are at Notre Dame to do his studies at the Illinois School of graduate work for a short time and Professional Psychology. leave upon its completion. 
Discussing his duties, Green Another administrative change is said, "The principal task of the job the promotion of Mr. Carl Magel to is to deal with the staff of each director of Printing and Publication residence hall helping them fill from the position of assistant opening, perform their duties, and director. The position of assistant develop ministries." director has been abolished. 
Green, who was the rector of Magel replaces Renald Parent who Sorin Hall last year, resigned that is editor of the Notre Dame duty upon his appointment as vice Magazine.
rI\_ The Place Before &· Aft~r The Gamel 
"'.I 2 Fabulous Location.s ~·· , • Side br Sidl 
IN THE .. ,1 . 
~0 
GEORGETOWN SHOPPING CENTER. 
• ~ Darden and Jmmons Road, 'south Bend

* -PiZ%A and Play-Self Service ond.Gome Galore 
* DINE and DRINK-Full Service Dining ~oom 


~5* ~!~i;i~ ~:;:~;;:;;~~;.
Spaghetti • Salad • Delicious Sandwiches • Our Famous Minestone Soup 

.P-t 

N.D. 
* 


DELIVERY to Notre Dame and St. Mary's 277 -4522 50$ delivery fee 
,.___ Man. thru ""'"-11 a . .ft:~ f2 l!.fll • ..frl. & s.t. i 1 a.a-1 a.m.,
luncloY Plua & PlaY 121~ .. 11·p.-. . , Df.-& Drink 5iOO .. 10 P.•• ...­
-------...------­
1 FREE I FREE 1 
I PITCHER OF POP I 12 oz. SOFT DRINK I with purchase of 1 with purchase of 1 
YOU SAY YOU WANT A ROOMFUL OF MUSIC BUT YOU JUST SPENT A FORTUNE ON BOOKS? 
HOW DOES A $299 ADVENT, SONY, BIC STEREO SOUND ? 
IMPRESSIVE! 

Our new $300 stereo system is To drive these little gems, really a spectacular bargain, we've chosen the Sony StR designed to blow your mind 1800 receiver. If you're into but not your budget. FM, the tuner section of the 
StR 1800 has all the circuitry The amazing system is built and features you'll need for around some incredible loud­drift-free, clear FM reception. speakers from the Advent And if you're inclined to Corporation, the company listen to Chicago stations the that has a reputation for Sony 1800 receiver will sur­making better and better prise you and disappoint the speakers for less and less ' competition. money. 
The turntable is the now The Advent 3 speakers are a famous BIC 920 ready to play two way acoustic suspension with moulded base and an design whose basic operation Audio Technica cartridge. It is much like that of Advent's will take good care of your more expensive speaker sys­records and get all the sound tems. Its woofer's cone is free they have to offer playing to move over a great distance after playing. to push air effectively for good bass response, and it has a These components would sell heavy and expensive magne­separately for $415; we offer tic structure that permits ex­you the complete system for cellent undistorted output. A $299. The price includes precise cone 1weeter assures assembly and the services clear highs with excellent only Audio Specialists can dispersion. offer. 
Come in and enjoy. 

.JAUDIO SPECIALISTS WE NOW STOCK
I a large pizza .I. a small pizza. '· 
MICROCOMPUTERS 

..~!l!!l.~.~~!l!l!l~...•. u!!!' . ..-.1!1!1!.1!!~.~"'-"··' .~~5 -~o~~ -~lchiga.n •. 23~·5001_ ... ........ ·"·····/.
• ol,..' 
.) 

10 the observer Wednesday, August 31, 1977 
~~--------------------------~~~~--~---­

Berkowitz declared insane; chances for trial diminishing 
NEW YORK [AP] • A psychiatric opinion that Mr. Berkowitz is fit to alleged mental shortcomings were read in the letter covering the
report called David Berkowitz "an stand trial." 
psychiatrists' eight page opinion ..
incapacitated person" yesterday Brooklyn State Supreme Court Held read from the cover letter of 
and increased the likelihood that he Justice Gerald Held gave the state 
will never stand trial for the six until Oct. 4 to present any conflic­the report in court, but ordered that ting psychiatric data that might the document be resealed and that
"Son of Sam" murders. 

open the way to a trial. In New those familiar with i-t not discuss it. Two court-appotnte<l psychia­York, the Supreme Court is a trial Berkowitz is under indictment in trists said that "as a result of court and the Court of Appeals is Brooklyn for the last of the .44 
mental disease or defect," the the highest state court. caliber attacks~a July 31 assault 24·year-old Bronx postal employee The murders of six young peo­that killed Stacy Moskowitz, 20,"lacks capacity to understand the ple, and the wounding of seven and partially blinded her date,proceedings against him or to Robert Violante, also 20. 
others, were carried out over a yearassist in his own defense." of terror, always at night and with a In addition, Berkowitz has been 
Those are the criteria for com­.44-caliber revolver. The gunman indicted in the Bronx for three petence to stand trial in New York concentrated on couples in parked murders and the wounding of a ~a~. . cars and left sometimes taunting fourth person, and in Queens for 
notes for the police and the media, two killings and five woundings.
If the findings stand, Berkowitz eventually adopting the name "Son The Bronx and Queens indict­would be ordered incarcerated in a 
of Sam." ments are being put off pending a state institution for the criminally Berkowitz, who was arrested finding in the Brooklyn case. Court insane. He would not be brought to Aug. 10 after a parking ticket sources said a finding that Berko­trial unless he later were judged to issued near the site of one killing witz is incompetent would shelve have recovered his sanity, which led police to him, came to court those indictments. 
the psychiatrists said was ques­Tuesday morning with an escort of After yesterday's court session,tionable. 
nine police cars and a police Berkowitz was returned to an helicopter. isolation yard at Kings County
However, Brooklyn Dist. Arty. Eugene Gold won the right to have He displayed no reaction during Hospital, where he had been 
his own psychiatrists examine the brief legal proceedings as his confined since his arrest. 


berkowitz. ''As the district attorney of this court," Gold declared,"it is my 
Judicial system eliminates students 
rcontinued from page 1] present a final draft to the Board of Trustees at its Oct. 21 meeting so the new regulations may be imple­mented this fall. Student Body President Dave Bender will also appoint a commit­tee to study the proposed Univer­sity changes as well as student suggestions. Bender's committee will consist of two faculty mem­bers, two administrators and two students, chosen as "the best and most creative minds on campus who understand the judicial board inside and out." He stated that a big problem with the judicial process is the lack of people who understand how the process works. Bender is also forming a drafting group to study du Lac and to rewrite sections, including the proposed disciplinary changes, where necessary. Schneider in­formed Bender that his recommen­iationswould be considered but that they would not consititue the final draft. 
The drafting group will be work­ing 6-9 p.m. Monday through Friday next week and will be open to serious student suggestions. Bender plans to announce the members of both committees this Monday. 
Hunter case remains unclear 
continued from page 8] 

The Appeals Board unanimously reversed the decision of the lower board on June 1 and recommended that Hunter be suspended for the fall semester. Dane accompanied 
Hunter on his final appeal to 
Hesburgh, which was denied. 

Hunter then initiated legal action .•. this card will let you call long distance to obtain his reinstatement. He 
from your room faster and at less cost than 
told aJuly 8 press conference that 
any other way. 
he wanted to stress that he had been found innocent, and had "no 
If you live in a re~;idence hall, making a long
other recourse except a court of law 
distance call can be a hassle. 
to redress this wrong." The parties reached their settlement 
You either have to call collect (and that costs 
five weeks later. 


long distance calls from the privacy of your room, and at direct-dial rates. That's a lot easier and more economical than any other way. Besides, there's no waiting in line, and you keep the change. To get your STUDENT BILLING CARD just call237-8182. 

extra), or wait in line at a pay phone with a
Although University officials will 
couple of pounds of change in your pocket. 
not discuss any aspect of the Hunter case, major adjustments of 
Well, there's a way around all that. Get your 
the du Lac disciplinary code will be presented to the University's Board free STUOENT BILLING CARD from Indiana 

@Indiana Bell 

of Trustees for their approval in Bell. A Student Billing Card lets you make October. The changes are design­ed to reduce the likelihood that the University will face similar lawsuits ,. for the conduct of their disciplinary policy. 

-·~--~­

Local bars renovated; Fat Wally's closes 
by Chrfa Datm.aa StaffReporter 
Students returning to the Notre Dame-St. Mary's community this past week found more than the bedsheets and the Engineering Building changed. Just a few blocks away, several favorite stu­dent hangouts also underwent ren­ovations. 
Work on the Library on Notre Dame A venue began just three weeks after graduation last May and ended a week ago. Besides a new ceiling, bar, and dance floor, the atmosphere has, according to manager Rick Kanser, become more "organized." The main bar room now has new chairs and tables for patrons to sit and socialize, while the dance floor has been moved into another room. New video games have been added and the women • s restroom was completely remodeled. 
Draft beer has been replaced by cans of Miller, Lite and Pabst for 75 cents each. The slight hike in prices is partly to pay for renova­tions. But a more important reason for the switch to cans was conve­nience, Kasner explained. 
"We had a lot of glass breakage last year and also spillage on the floor," he said. "By the end of the night it was a mess. Also from a 
business aspect it's easier for inventory, and in addition, custo­mers know that they're getting a 12 ounce can instead of a ten or eight ounce glass." 
Nickies also replaced draft and bottled beer with cans. The interior has remained basically the same as last year except for a new 
paint job. On the outskirts of the Notre Dame campus, the Alumni-Senior Bar underwent a considerable face-. lift. Twenty-five employees re­turned a week early to remodel and paint the entire building. The upstairs "Michelob Room" was refurnished with a step-up 
FOR RENT 

Country house for rent located 10 to 12 minutes from Notre Dame. Ideal for 1. 2 or 3 people. Call 277 ·3604. 
WANTED 

Musicians -interested in being part of a group to play for llturg ies in hallsor Sacred Heart. Call 6536 or 8832 between 9 a.m. and 5 p.m. 
Doc. Pierce's Saloon is hiring full or part-time Bartenders, Cocktail wait­resses and Food Servers. Must be 
21. Apply in Person Sept. 6-8 from 3 to 6 p.m. 120 N. Main St., Misha­waka. 
Wanted • Two Pitt tickets. Call Bob 8330. 
HELP. 1need 3 roommates to live in an apartment at the Notre Dame Avenue Apartments. $280 a month. If interested, please call 283-1715 and ask for Drew. 
FOR SALE PANDORA'S HAS THE FOLLOW· lNG USED BOOKS AVAILABLE: 
AM ST • 352, 381, 473, 476, 482 
ART· 324 
COLSEM ENG +109,113, 180, 185, 321,322, 328, 333, 385, 386, 390, 392A, 399, 404A, 432, 461, 486, 496, 585, 593, 654A 
GEN PROG· 191·181, 245,281,381, 
GOVT • 280,343,407,420, 421, 641 
HIST-109, 111, 180,301,305,337, 344B, 345F, 411, 459, 477, 479, 520·526, 653 
MOD L-180, 190, 00, 433, 441 
PHIL·101,180, 201,241,245,275, 277, 278, 301, 329, 351, 429 
PSYCH -180 
SPEECH DRAMA • 135, 180, 392 
TH EO· 200, 247, 255, 336, 353, 364, 373, 421, 425, 441, 454, 555 
SOC • 114, 346, 369, 371, 503 N 
917 SOUTH BEND AVE. 
··-·· 

The downstairs "Bud room" or "game room" is equipped with a new bar, sound system and dance floor. Food sales have been temporarily discontinued, but Manager Jim Dunne hopes to have chips and fast foods installed soon. 
Beer prices in the Senior Bar have also increased, said Dunne, because of an increase in keg prices. Busch, Bud, Stroh's and a new addition, Busch light are priced at fifty cents for a twelve ounce glass. Draft Michelob and Heineken sell for sixty cents and one dollar, respectively. 
"We don't like to raise our 
prices," Dunne stated, "but our 
operating costs increased. Once 
we can pay off the debt from last 
year, pay our employees and put 
some money in the Senior Scholar­
ship Fund, then we hope to bring 
the prices back down next spring." 
So far the Senior Oass has sold 
over 400 bar cards, more than any 
other year. This represents a large 
percentage of the class, and Dunne 
hopes to sell even more. 
On Corby Street the infamous 
black wall of Corby's has been 
rebuilt and, according to John 
"Sweeney" Bruns ND '77, is much 
more structurally sound. An inside 
wall has also been removed to open 
up the back room and provide more 
space for pool and a new dart 
board. "Corby's still has every­
thing from highballs to draft beer 
to cans to bottles of imported 
beer,'' Bruns declared. 
Across the street at Bridget 
McGuire's, the only change was 
the addition of more antiques, in 
keeping with the bar's theme of "I 
Believe in Yesterday.'' In the near 
Wednesday, August 31, 1977 the observer 11 

This past summer Senior Bar has been painted and remodeled. [I tor] jim Dunne, Ken Ricci and Rob Civitello, managers of Senior Bar, pre~re to open the season. [Photo by Leo Hansen] 
features a Ladies Night every Wednesday from 7-10 with mixed drinks at half price. 
And Fat Wally's has closed due to fmancial problems and violations of the Indiana Drinkin" C.ndP.. 
A/anon forms discussion group 
A campus spokesman for Ala-non, a national group dealing with alcoholism, has announced the 
formation of a discussion group for persons concerned by a friend or family member with an alcohol 
problem. Schedule plans will be made soon. Interested persons should call8809 for information. 
~~i~~s~::~:~or~fir:fr~~~: Volunteers needed 
Four Horsemen. Theresa Bauer The Sacred Heart Parish needs SMC '68, manager of Bridget's, volunteers to teach catechism-added that their stereo system is classes Sunday mornings from 9:30 "equipped with just about any tape a.m. to 10:45 a.m. Also needed are anyo!le w~uld like to hear." . musicians for the Family Mass at 
Bndget s ?ffers a l~rge selec~on 11:00 in the Crypt. Persons of beer and hquor whtch, accordmg interested should call Mollie Ber-to Bauer, is all prorated according nard director of religious educa-· 
All the bar managers and holic Beverage Commission is bartenders expressed hopes for a "cracking down." Students are good year without any trouble. also asked to keep noise and litter One bartender warned students to a minimum as the South Bend without an I.D. or with a fake I.D. Police will be patrolling the area to "stay away" because the Alcho-and ticketing violators. 
5th An_nual 

B• B th /B• s • f
lg ro ers lg IS ers p,·CnI•C 
Sunday, September 11, 1977 1 pm-5:30pm Potawatomi Park Ovens 22, 23, 24 Bring own meal and table service and (1) diSh tO Share. 
Soft drinkS and potatO ChipS Will be prOVided
• 

)p~la~U~o~r~m~a~nd~a~n~e~w~ftrr~m~·tu~re~s~et~.--~to~~th~e~ir~c~o•s~t·~~B•n~·d~2~e~t·~s_.al,so tion~,~·a~t~2~7~2:-1~2~4~5~·--____________!:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~ 

Classified 
Photographers Needed for Observer Staff
Ads 

[] Darkroom Experience Required [] Call Leo Hansen 287·7051 or Observer. 
Photograp~y Thus. Night Spm 
Meeting at ()bserver Office 
HEATH AR-15 receiver, 50 watts channel, walnut cabinet. Call 234-1596 on weekends or after 5 :30 
p.m. Best offer. 
For Sale -Davis tennis racket and cover. Very good condition. Call Bob 8330. 
PERSONALS 

A lot of chicks dig Jimmy Dunne Ill. 
5th FLOOR REGINA NORTH • (old and new) • WE ARE HAVING A REUNION THIS THURSDAY AT 
7 :30 pm IN REGINA NORTH LOUNGE OR BASEMENT. SIGNS WILL BE POSTED. PLEASE COME. 
AD STAFF· (those of you who were here) congratulations on one hell of a job. Keep it up. 
S.B. 

Civi, Chupe, Judy and Mike. Tons 
of thanks for Friday nights perfor. 
mance. It's all downhill from here. 
S.B. 

CEIL. 
Thanks for your help this first -ek. 
Should be much smoother sailing 
from here on in. 
S.B. 

NEED RIDE TO WEST SIDE OP CLEVELAND FOR ANY WEEK END. CALL KATHY 1264 • 
.......... ... ................ _..........·................... ,.. 
'

_..._________________________ 
(or to) 






WELCOME BACK SALE 
___;,___.........____--.....:-..:..:-~-~-~.:...:._._-~-~ ••~Co 

12 the observer Wednesday, August 31, 1977
..::.._::::___....::.::..:..=:..-= --------__________:_:___ _:::__ __:___ 
ND gridders await third scrimmage 
blasted with criticism but look who's in first in the AL East. As for the AL West, you'd best not tum your back for more than a Paul Stevenson·==::;::::::::=:=:=:::::::::::=:=:::=::;::=:=:=::::::·:::·=·=·:·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·:-:-:-=·=·:·:·=·=·:·=-=·: minute if you want to be sure of who's in first. Manager Billy Hunter is 

by Paul Stevenson Sports Editor 

Collegiate football fans across 
the country are looking to South 
Bend, IN for a football team that 
will do it all in the 1977 gridiron 
season. However, there is a great 
deal of improvement needed before 
the Irish debut in Pittsburgh • 
September 10. 

''If we are to accomplish any­thing of note this season, we are going to have to come up with some key performers in several crucial positions where we lost out­~tanding players," stated Head C0arh Dan Devine. 
One of these "crucial positions" i~ at quaterback. Rick Slager, who held the number-one signal calling po.~itiiHJ for the past two seasons, ha~ lll"cn lost to graduation. Rusty I i-.dJ ha~ been called on to replace \lager. a position he earned be­<":lliM.' of his superior performance ir. la~t spring's Blue-Gold game. 
However. Lisch's performance th1s past Saturday in the team's ~l'rond scrimmage of the fall was 11111 overly spectacular. The Belle­\ die. IL native completed only two out of eight passes for 40 yards "hik being intercepted three 
times. 

ML·anwhile, the number-two quarterback was not having a kgcndary afternoon. Gary Fory­'tck connected on only one of three passes while giving up an intercep­goal to tie the score at three. The
Monte Towle=::;:;::::::::=:=:=:::===================================================================:=========:::::=:::::::::=== 
major play in the scoring drive came on second down and five to go at the SO yardline. Tri-captain Terry Eurick was given the ball and

Endless Summer 
the senior from Saginaw, MI rambled 35 hard-fought yards. Each side was unable to mount
:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:·=·=·:·:-:-:-:·:-:-:·:·:·:·:·•::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;::=·=:::=:=:=:=============================:=:=:=:::::::::=====:===== Tidbits 
The vacation need not end although the commencement of classes is forcing many of us to leave summer behind. Maybe our free time borders Baseball meeting on extinction here, but surely we aren't going to let our studies push aside the memories of this past summer. Permit yourselves the opportunities to scheduled today bask in the warmth of the summer sun as we relive the memories, both 
There will be a interest meetinggood and bad, which will forever give life to the Summer of '77. 
for all undergraduate students Rita Coolidge ...R2D2... Sam's talking dog ...Jacqueline Bisset in her wet 
wanting to try out for the Notre diving clothes...five weeks of hot Army ROTC training in Kansas....a 
'Dame varsity baseball team at 4:30 broken four wood. These and other more personal memories highlighted 
p.m. in the Athletic and Convoca­
my summer. Even the summer sports scene offered its share of tion Center Auditorium. This memorable heroes and heroics, although M. Donald Grant's summer 
meeting is mandatory for all those wasn't so enjoyable. interested in participating in try­
Pandemonium swept through Chicago as the Cubs and White Sox outs. All candidates should bring a rocked the baseball world with hints of a subway series. The season is not pencil. over yet, but already the Summer of '77 has granted a wish to deserving Chicagoans. (And there I was sitting through a two and a half hour rain ·f 
delay at Fenway Park to watch the Red Sox drop a pair last week). Baseball needed Bill Veeck and it got him! Back to M. Oonald Grant though. I was in a laundramat in Manhattan, 
when !learned that pitching greatness had been traded to the Reds. Steve <~~~-~~~,Y~~~~~~m~~t~~~~l
Henderson is an upcoming star and Doug Flynn a good infielder, but Tom / 
Seaver was thl! New York Mets. Across town, Yankee Manager Billy Martin awaited his fate on death row as tempers flared during the summer heat wave. The Yankees were 
first in the hearts of Texas fans. By the way, whatever became of Frank •Jftiid~itlbi(Ui(tfieilr~inthil:e~~~~:tet':§t
Lucchesi?...Meanwhile Lenny Randle has been hitting .300 and starring 
in a Met uniform. 
While his face graced the covers of magazines from coast to coast, Rodney Carew made his annual run at the .400 mark. He tailed off in August to .370 but at last he is finally recognized for what he is, the best hitter in the world. 
Elsewhere, baseball's millionare club proved its real worth as former free agents like Wayne Garland, Jim Hunter and Bobby Grieb floundered through embarrassing performances. Of course, New Yorkers would like to add Reggie Jackson to that list of failures. Why? I'll never know. He's had one of his best seasons ever at the plate. 
Some people maintain that Jack Nicklaus reigns supreme in the golfing miverse. Even Tom Watson tends to agree. But the final round of the Jritish Open reserved a moment of uncontested glory for young Watson. While Nicklaus fashioned an outstanding final round of 66, Watson did .1ne stroke better in winning the classic head to head confrontation. It was ' .round earmarked for a place in golf legend. 
It was the Summer of '77 that saw 18-year-old Ukranian Vladimir Yaschenko high jump seven feet, seven and three-quarters inches while ~·rasing Dwight Stones from the world record book. The tennis world 
,·heered when Bjorn Borg dethroned Jimmy Connors at Wimbledon. And football fans in Los Angeles and Dallas looked ahead to supporting two new players; one, a veteran QB named Joe and the other, a former Heisman Trophy winner whose T.D. always spelled trouble for Notre Dame. 
The Summer of '77 also witnessed the testimony of a 'criminal' element in the NFL. But closer to home, it was the dismissal of Alphonse Hunter that lit the flames offury for football fanatics. AI Hunter, not only a great running back. but also one of the most popular persons on this camp11S. His summer wasn't so memorable. 
Yet, it is the good memories which allow us to live with September schoolwork., South Bend weather and no more Groucho. 
Whether your summer entailed lying on the beach, working at a job, hang-gliding over the ocean, enjoying the discotheques, drinking beer, travelmg cross country or even watching TV reruns, the Summer of '77 had something for everybody, even the sports fanatk, Don't leave it behind. 
. 

Irish halfback Vagas Ferguson ran for 33 yards in seven attempts in last Saturday's scrimmage in 
Notre Dame Stadium. 

tion. came on Joe Unis' 36 yard field 
In the number-three slot, Joe goal, giving the second team a 3-0 Montana found the range on five advantage early in the first quarter. out of 13 passes for 49 yards, However, the first offense retal­including a ten yard touchdown iated quickly, driving 61 yards in strike to Steve Dover. seven plays before stalling. Dave 
The first score of the afternoon Reeve connected on a 26 yard field 

)~~···~~~~~r~~~~FJ~~l-~~~~
) 
Lacrosse team to hold meeting 

There will be an organizational meeting for those interested in the Lacrosse club on Thursday, Sep­tember 1, at 4:30p.m. in the ACC auditorium. In addition, there will be a clinic beginning Monday, September 5, from 4:15 p.m. to 6 p.m. on the field behind Stepan Center. No experience is necessary. Those interested should call Tun Walsh at 1067 or John Gray at 1166. 
-..._ 
any offensive threat on their next several possessions. Thus, the defense came up with the big play that gave the first team their first touchdown of the afternoon. Faced with fourth down and 18, Dick Boushka punted for the second team. Randy Harrison received the punt and trotted 57 yards for the score. Reeve added the point after as the first team captured the lead for the first time, 10-3. 
The second team regained poss~ ession of the ball at their own 30, but once again were unable to sustain a drive. Boushka booted the football 44 yards into the . waiting arms of Ty Dickerson. The sophomore from Indianapolis, IN scampered 77 yards untouched for another Irish tally. Reeve con­nected on the conversion to extend the first team lead to 17-3 via their strong defense performance. 
The only score for the first team offensive unit was set up by a poor punt by the second squad. The first string started with ideal field position at the opposition's 37 yard line. Vagus Ferguson started the 
·![~6~~~~~~~t~J~~~····~~ij~~=m 


In Remembrance 
·=:=:=:::::::::::::=:::=:=:=:=:::::::::::=:=:=:::=:=:::::::::=:::::::::=:::=:=:=:::=:=:::::::::=:=:=:=:=·=·=:=:===·=·=·:::::::::::·:::::::::::::::::·:::::·:·=:=::P.S. 
Although the name AI Hunter may be permanently inscribed in the Notre Dame gridiron record books, the star Irish halfback will also be remembered as the first student to appear before the University judicial board since James A. Roemer has reigned as Dean of Students of the University of Notre Dame duLac. 
Even though he was not a captain, Hunter was an inspirational leader for the team. There is no doubt that he was a talented running back, but the major asset Hunter possessed was the raport he had with the people and fans. 
He was a likable guy as well as a great runping back. He was a P.R . man for the University. Now, the impressions and memories of the Notre Dame halfback will be a mixture of both good and bad. 
Whether or not Hunter will be missed will not be known until the conclusion of the upcoming grid season. The Irish have a great stable of running backs, many capable of taking his place on the gridiron. He will probably be missed more as a person than as a player. 
One does not try to decide now whether Hunter was guilty or innocent, but whether he was treated fairly. There have been numerous students, as well as student-athletes, that have been suspended over the years. However, the fact that Hunter was a starter and, in addition, had such a great season last year, brought a greater amount of attention to the matter. 
•
Atmany other schools, this kind ofattention may not have been given to the subject. In the first place, many schools would not have parietals which could be violated, and secondly, many schools do not draw the national t:ecognition that is carried by the name Notre Dame. 
What will Hunter do now? The Irish halfback visited the Seattle Seahawks of the National Football League this past weekend. There is speculation that he will return to that team this coming weet~nd to negotiate a contract. In addition, there is also rumor that he will retr-=li to the University in January to complete his course requirements in omer to receive his depee bi Booaomics. 
drive with a seven yard burst up 
the middle. David Waymer then 
followed with a 14 yard run on the 
reverse. Five plays later, Lisch 
scored on a keeper from the one. 
Reeve's conversion brought the 
score to 24-3. 
The second team reached paydirt 
on their next possession. With Joe 
Montana calling the signals, the 
second team launched a 70 yard 
scoring drive. 
Two key plays in the scoring march were passes to tight end Kevin Hart. On their first connec­tion, Montana hit Hart for 23 yards, giving the second team a first down at the first team's 42 yard line. On the following play, Montana went to Hart again, this time for a 16 yard pickup. 
Eight plays later Montana found Dover in the endzone, as the duo connected on a ten yard touchdown strike. The score was then nar­rowed to 24-10 via Unis' point after. 
That tally marked the end of the official scrimmage as the third teams began to compete against one another. With Tim Koegel at quarterback, the third offense be­gan a 70 yard scoring drive. The freshman from Cincinnati, Ohio completed three out of six passes. The drive was capped off by a 28 yard touchdown toss from Koegel to Kevin Muno. 
The scrimmage was only the second of the fall and the offense may have not been overly impres­sive, however, there are several reasons for the poor offensive showing. 
Three offensive linemen, Ted Horansky, Steve McDaniels and Ken MacAfee did not participate in the competition because of minor injuries. All three are expected to play in the next scrimmage, scheduled for tomorrow. 
Leading rushers for the day were Eurick, who gained 48 yards in four attempts. Dave Mitchell picked up 36 yards in five carries, while Ferguson compiled 33 yards ~n seven tries. 
The team's performance came as no suprise to Devine. "We played like a team that's gone through two a days for the last two weeks," Devine remarked. "There are a lot of guys out with injuries. I'm not overly pleased, but, we needed what we had." 
*Observer 
Sports 










