-.~ ~ --~--~-~~--~----~ 


The Observer 
an independent student n•ewspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's Monday, September 12, 1977 Vol. XII, No. 10 

Canned beer 'rip-off' 
Students want draft beers, lOwer prices 
by Frank Laurino 

Decreasing attendance this semester at two local bars is due mainly to the switch from draft beer to canned beer, according to Notre Dame and St. Mary's stu­dents, and contrary to opinions Nickies and the Library are ridicu­get caught, it's your own fault. 
expressed  by  bar  owners  in  a  
recent Observe r article.  
"Prices  for  canned  beer  at  

lous," said Tony Mashuta, a Everyone takes that chance if senior. "I could just as well stay they're under 21; it's accepted."home and drink my own." "The problem is price, pure and 
Another senior, Mike Madden, simple,'' said senior Chris 
feels the far owne~:~· claims of Schneeman. "Draft beer is the students' "fear of arrest" is not an cheapest.They(the bar owners) are important factor in the loss of kidding themselves if they think business in the Corby-Eddy area. differently," he said. "Everyone knows the score with "Canned beer is a rip-off," said the police," said Madden. "If you Cathy Hedgf~s. a St. Mary's junior. 
.  A burned  radiator  and  wall  mute  evidence of  the  fiire  in  
Morrissey Saturday m orning.  [Photo by Maureen  t=lynn]  
$40,000 damage  

Morrissey fire ruins room 
by Mike Ridenour 

Some 250 students were routed from sleep about 3:45 a.m. Satur­day, when a fire broke out in Morrissey Hall. The fire was confined to the third floor room in which it started. No one was hurt. The fire, however, destroyed the contents in the room, with the third floor and a chapel below suffering from heat, smoke and water damage. Damage estimates have reached as high as $40,000. 
According to Jack Bland, the Notre Dame Fire Inspector, "the exact ignition source is uncertain, but it's believed to be electrical in origin." Some reports say that a malfunction in a lamp was the cause of the fire. 
Bob Onda, one of the occupants of the room, said "everything is lost--stereo, television, refrigera­tor, clothes: everything." Onda and his roommate will stay at Moreau Seminary until a new room is ready for occupation. 
Bland had praise for the evacua­tion process, saying "the reaction was excellent by the students-­everybody got out." Fr. Holtz. rector of Morrissey Hall, echoed 
. .,j"c ·-·-:):-:>, 
:-.~ .' ·.(. : :·· ·': !.~~~. -.:Y 
''\ _. ·. ~ •.•,,.:to;~···

: r ·. 
Bland's praise saying "the stu­dents were very conscious about everyone else when evacuating and I'm proud of the way the students reacted--it was an important learn­ing experience for the campus." 
Onda was sleeping before he "began smelling smoke." His roommate was down the hall when the fire ignited. After waking, Onda ran for the fire extinguisher, but his attempt to quench the fire 
Moratorium 
to be placed 

on room panelling; see box on page 3 
was futile. the fire alarm was sounded and evacuation began. 
When the Notre Dame Fire Department arrived ''the fire was very active and was blowing out of the window," said Bland. The South Bend Fire Department sent seven pieces of equipment to assist in the operation. 
Bland presented a reason why the fire did not spread through the hall explaining "Morrissey is a well constructed hall of reinforced con­crete and thick plastered walls.• These construction features contri· · 
·..?. 
•. ~.. 
. ·.,. 
..•''. .·•... 

buted substantially to the fact that fire was confined to the compart­ment of origin. The only observable weakness in the building system was the transom over the door." 
Bland was concerned with the contents of rooms at Notre Dame. He said the fire probably would have been of "the smouldering type if the room didn't have so many flammable components." 
The room had been modified and decorated with burlap placed on the lower portion of the wall, he stated, and a plywood partition erected to separate the sleeping areas from the social-study area. "Ifwe limit the combustibles, I can assure you we lower the probability of fire in that area," Bland added. 
Referring to Du Lae, the guide to student life, Bland stated "It is specific ir11 some areas about what can be Clone in student rooms. Maybe tht~ rules should be ~xpand­ed to include the wholesale chang­ing of int•~rior finishes that occurs each school year in many student rooms. We should either eliminate the rules or enforce themI In any case nothing worthwhile can be accomplished without the coopera­tion ofstudents, faculty and staff in this imp01rtant matter.'' 
''The students are being taken advantage of." 
Bar atmosphere is also a factor, according to students. "Nickies and the Library don't fit the college crowd," said Madden. "This is still a basic drinking school in the Irish style." 
Junior Rick Lane also felt the Library did not suit the average Notre Daine student. "When I go out to drink, I want to drink not listen to disco and bump," he said. An unidentified female Notre Dame student added her dislike for the Library-Nickies atmosphere. "It's as if half the people are trying to pick someone up," she said. 
All students interviewed by The Observer felt that Corby's would retain its steady clientele. "Cor­by's is still the closest thing in this area to a basic Irish bar," said Schneeman." It doesn't put up any false fronts, and it's more relaxing to go there." 
"It (Corby's) is the only place not far from campus where you can get draft beer and find a relaxed drinking crowd," said Hedges. Madden added, "Corby's also has a loyalty that Nickies and the Library don't have." 
Regarding the Senior Bar, den&.:calsoJon.ba a "friendly and relaxed'' atmosphere. "You can get drafts at reasonable prices," said Mashuta. "And it's no prob­lem getting there when you can't get a car." 
Notre Dame senior Anne O'Donnell liked the Senior Bar operation. "It's run very well, and I like going there because I can always find people I know." Senior Bar does have its drawbacks, O'Donnell added. "sefme people always talk about-classes and homework. When I'go out, the last thing I want to; talk about is ' school." · 
"Senior Bar is great," said Madden. "But being only a senior ~ bar, you don't ge.t the cross-section of people you get at other bars." 
"Few feltthe Senior Bar had any effect on the bars in the Corby­Eddy area. "The Senior Bar will always have its 'crowd of people who've never gone out drinking until their last year," said Lane. "It's a novelty, true, but people will continue to go there because they've paid for a bar card." 
Many preferred leaving the 
immediate CBflpus area when go­
ing to a bar. "It's a break away 
[continued on page 4] 
.·~~ 

the observer Monday, September 12, 1977 

News Briefs--------~ 
Teen queen rejects title 
ME~ms• Teone88ee-·A teen-age beauty pageant, plagued by c~nfuston from the beginning, ended Saturday night when the wmner of the Miss Teen U.S.A. title rejected her crown. Sharon Gregory, a 14-year-old from Bridge City, Texas, rejected the title and members of the audience walked onto the stage to congratulate her for turning it down. 
Protesters hurt 
CHICAGO:-Three persons were seriously injured last night when a car c~rrytng blac~ drove through a crowd of whites holding a candlelight rally m protest of Chicago's voluntary school desegregation program, authorities said. Holy Cross Hospital reported receiving two teen-age girls and one teen-age boy and sa1d they were in serious to critical condition. The incident occurred on the city's Southwest side. 

Weather 

Partly cloudy today with highs in the upper 70's and a 30 percent chance of afternoon showers of thunderstorms. There is a 60 percent chance of more rain tonight with lows around 60. More showers are expected tomorrow with highs in the upper 70's. 



On Campus Today __ 
4:30p.m. lecture, "psychology of aging," by dr. john santos, sponsored by biology dept, rm. 278 galvin life science center. 
7 p.m. meeting, women's track cross country team, new and old members welcome, Ia fortune theatre. 
charismatic eucharist, open to public, Jog chapel.
7
:30 p.m. 


faculty senate, cce seminar rm. 202.
7
:30 p.m. 


Niles Baha'i Group to sponsor bus trip 
The Niles Baha'i Group is spon· station at lO a.m. and return by soring a bus trip for the public to 8:30p.m. the Baha'i House of Worship for Total cost of the bus trip is $6.75 North America in Willmette, IL on per person, payable to the Niles, Sunday, Sept. 25. Michigan Baha'i Group. Payment 
There is no clergy or rituals in may be mailed to the Niles Baha'i the Baha'i Faith, and all are Group, L.B. 511, Niles, Ml 49120. welcome at the Baha'i House of Name, address and telephone num­Worship. The bus trip from Niles ber must accompany payment in to the Baha'i House of Worship will order to receive a receipt and include a guided tour of the House information sheet. Reservations of Worship and its nine gardens and payments are due by Wednes­overlooking Lake Michigan, a mul­day. For reservations or more ti-media presentation on the his­information call Barbara, Kathy, or tory and significance of the temple, Debra Haight at 683-3666. a public worship program with singing by an acappella choir, and a public lecture and "discussion. Buses will leave the Niles bus 

r!~~d:or~~!~~~~~J 
Asst. Night Editor: Rosemary The Observer 11 published Mon­
Mills dey through Fridey except during 
Editorial Layout: Maureen 

exem end vec:etlon periods. Tile 
Flynn

Observer 11 published by the students of Notre Deme end Selnt 
Sports Layout: Paul Stevenson Mery's Coli•••· Subscriptions 
Typists: Mark Rust, Suzy Pla­

mey be purdlesed for 120 per yeer (510 per semester) fnlm The 
vac, Anne Giere, Leigh Tuna-Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre 
kan · Deme, lndlene 46556. SeCDnd 
Night Controller: Mardi Nevin

den poatqe peld, Notre Deme, lndlene, 4UU. 
Day Editor: K. Connelly . The Observer Is e member of Copy Reader: Phil Cackleythe AIIOCieted Prell. All repro­
Ad Layout: Rob Civitello 

duction rllhtl ere reaervecl. 
lPhotographer: Pat Herrmann) 
Student football tickets available starting today 
Student Football tickets for the 
·1977 season will be distributed at the ticket sales window of the Athletic and Convocation Center this week. Those desiring tickets must present their blue punched athletic certification, and their student I.D., on the following dates: 
Seniors-Monday, September 12, 8:30A.M. to 4:00 P.M. 
Juniors, Law, and Graduate Stu· dents-Tuesday, September 13, 8:3G to 4:00. (Graduate and Law students must pay a $13 fee.) 
Sophmores-Wednesday, Sep­tember 14, 8:30 to 4:00. Freshmen-Thursday, September 15, 8:30 to 4:00. 
Married Students -Present your athletic certification, with evidence of your married status, at the ticket office on either Monday, Septem­ber 12, or Tuesday, September 13, between 9:00A.M. and 4:00P.M. Couples ·wishing adjacent seating 
l ~ .. 
must present their certifications together, along with $13, and advise the clerk accordingly. You will then be given a receipt, which you must turn in at the A.C.C. ticket office between 9 A.M. and 4 P.M., Monday, September 19. No applications will be accepted after September 16. 
Anyone wishing to sit with a Saint Mary's student of the same class, and who has applied for a season ticket, can do so if she accompanies you to the A.C.C. ticket window. 
Since the Navy game will be played on Saturday, October 29, during the fall break, tickets for that game are not included in the packet. They will be available at a later date, and there will be no charge for undergraduates. 
No student may present more than four certifications for adjacent seating. 
Mass officially opens year 
by Peggy McGuire 

Faculty, students, and guests 
celebrated the University's official 
opening with a High Mass yester­
day morning at Sacred Heart 
Cathedral. Fr. Theodore M. Res­
burgh, University president, ser­
ved as chief celebrant and homilist. 
The ceremony, beginning at 
10:45 a.m. with a processional of over 300 faculty, university offic­ials, and priests, marked the commencement of Notre Dame's 136th academic year. 
"I call upon the Holy Spirit today in this Holy Mass as we begin once again with hope, joy, and con­fidence to take part together in this noble and creative world that we call Catholic Higher Education," stated Hesburgh in his sermon. He also asked that ''those of us whose lives are given to the work of education might best pray today to the Holy Spirit that the gifts He gives us are those we need most for the success of our work." 
Hesburgh specifically prayed to the Holy Spirit for the gifts of wisdom and courage. He asked that wisdom, that which "•offers all knowledge and all power toward the good of mankind, toward peace, and toward the glory of God above, ... may be the fulfillment of our work, the sustenance of our teaching, the li_ght of our lives in 
the sea of wisdom which is the Notre Dame of Notre Dame, Our Lady." 
The president continued by say­ing that his second request, cour­age, is necessary for the attainment of wisdom. He said that "too many educators today are afraid to say that whatever we teach students to do, it is even more important to teach them what kind of a person they should be. This means that they must be taught values as well as skills, and we must teach these values by exemplifying them." 
The Notre Dame Chapel Choir, under the direction of. Sue Seid­Martin, along with Fr. Eugene F. Gorski, cantor were vocalists for the Mass. Instrumental musicians were Deborah Davis, Lisa Ma­honey, Steve Haaser, and Dennis Blubaugh. 
Later in the afternoon, a recep­tion was held for new faculty members in the Center for Contin­uing Educaiton. 
!Creative,
I intelligent, _ and resourceful persons. 
Are you tired of booking already? 
Fed up with studying all week and engaging in drunken debauchery every weekend? 
Would you like to make your mark on the Notre Dame-St. Mary's mmmunity? 
Well, get out of your academic rut! 
Do something to improve your personality, social status and general well-being! GET INVOLVED. 
You can impress your friends, thrill your parents and fulfill your ego-maniac fantasies. 
YOUCAN BE ON THE RADIO. 
WSND and WSND-FM need announcers, music prograammers, newspersons and produdion and technical engineers. No experience is necessary. 
So, if you would like to get something out of mllege {aside froma 4.0 and a beer gut) reserve an audition time to try out for a position on our staffs. 
You'll find us in Stepan Center during STudent Adivities Night, tonight from 7:00 to 11 :00 p.m. 
All you creative, intelligent and resourceful persons ... we'll see you there. 
(Deadbeats need not apply.) 
wsnd WSND-FM 


am640 88.9 
l The Big Red Q l 
lis now in the neighborhood.I t t t ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF WENDY'S t 
t t  ON U·S· 31  t t  
t  :FAST PRINfiNG Resumes  : t  

t Term Papers t DuLacdistribution l Flyers l 
DuLac's for off-campus students 
tAnnouncements ® t
will be distributed starting tomor­row from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. in the Student Government offices in LaFortune Student Center. 


L_~l~~~-~~!~~~~~J
...... 

1978 Collegiate Jazz' Festival Committee 

If one is intrested in working with Jazz Artists, 
music, ana intense bureauaacy, then CJF 1978 may be for you. Prospedive workers may sign up at Adivities Night (tonight). We need help with applications, publidty, advertising, and unexciting legwork. 

For further information, speak to JIM THOMAS at ACTIVITIES NIGHT or later this week at 289 • 1721 
Monday, September 12. 19n the observer 
Judicial committees formed


Moratorium to be issued 
Ber1der wants to redo system 
on wood construction 
by Matt Kane 
Staff Reporter 

The Office of Student Affairs will issue a directive sometime this week placing a moratorium on further wooden and cloth construction by students in campus residences. The mora­torium is in reaction to the Friday night fire in Morrissey Hall. Fire officials believe that if not for the wooden alterations made to the room by the occupants the fire would not have progressed beyond the smoldering stage. 
According to Dean of Stu­dents James Roemer, the mora­torium will cover panneling, wooden bed lofts, cloth wall covers and room partitions. Jack Bland, assistant fire chief of the Notre Dame Fire Depart­ment, said that additional com­bustibles, such as panneling, can increase the danger of fire as much as 75 percent. 
In addition, Roemer said, Bro. Just Paczesny, vice-presi­dent of Student Affairs, will ask the officers of the University to ~elect a committee which will investigate the Morrissey fire and make recommendations which will prevent further fires. 
Roemer, who was present at the fire approximately 45 min­utes after it started, said he felt grateful and pleased that no one was hurt and that · both the residents of Morrissey and the fire-fighters acted correctly. "I'm. also glad," Roemer ad­ded, "to learn from this experi­ence so that we can avoid such near-tragedies in the future. I hope students realize that this was no small fire, and will take fire prevention a little more seriously." 
Roemer noted that "ingnition 
sources'', :such as overloadin of electrical olltlets and candles, two possible causes of the Morrissey fire, will be disal­lowed. He also stated, "I hope students, while selecting perso­nal property, like furniture and carpets, would consider their flamability.'' 
Roemer remarked that many of these precautions against fire are already spelled out in Du Lac. He also said a directive sdent out by his office at the beginning of the semester noti­fied rectors that the building of partitions and lofts was prohi­bited. Further, any panneling thought to be done poorly should also be taken down. 
Bland believed other precau­tions can be taken within the halls. He hopes every hall will conduct a fire drill, and if the residents allow it, have more frequent inspections of rooms. The Notre Dame Fire Depart­ment does conduct inspections before students return in the fall. 
Bland continued by saying, "The pulling of fire alarms for fun especially in the towers, destroys the credibility of the system; nor ao much for the fire department but for the hall residents. I know that in Morrissey many students at first did not take the alarm seriously and had to be roused by others." He added, "Some­times after a false alarm has been pulled the hall staff will turn off the system and deprive the hall of that very valuable precaution." 
Roemer commented that there will be no disciplinary action against the two students involved. Furthermore, the hall staff in Morrissey will verify all personal property lost by stu­dents due to the fire, smoke and water damage. 

Banker's daughter released 
NASHVILLE* Tenn. [AP] -A car outside the Sigma Nu fraternity pretty 19-year-old banker's daugh­house on the campus of Vanderbilt ter, kidnapped five days ago from ·University on Thursday night. 
her college campus, was driven to North Carolina yesterday and rele­ased unhurt after a $150,000 ran­som was paid. Within hours, authorities arrested a man and a woman. 
Annette Adams, a blonde Van­derbilt University coed from Mary­ville, Tenn., was reunited with her parents at the Burke County sher­iff's office in Morganton, N.C., 300 miles east of here, before dawn. 
Authorities sai~ they recoverd more than $148,000. 
Soon she was back in her home town where her father, W.C. Adams, is president of the Bank of Maryville. 
Her face was puffy and eyes red from crying, but she asid she was all right. 
"I was not hurt," she said. "I was well treated. They did not bother me. They never threatened to hurt me at all. 
"They moved me around a lot. I was blindfolded most of the time but I could usually tell w.here I was by l.eaks in the blindfold and such. 
"I'd never seen them before but I'd know them if they walked up to me now. 
"I'm glad to be home," she said. 
Then she broke into tears. 
Authorities arrested Shelby Ann 
Baker, 28, of Winter Haven, Fla., and Wayne Edward Garrity, 29, of Statesville, N.C. 
The FBI said they would be arraigned on federal kidnapping charges. 
The drama began in Nashvile on Thursday night, and it. unfolded . over four tense days during which news organizations kept the story off the air and out of print. The FBI had said Miss Adams' abduc­tors had threatened to kill her if they saw or heard news accounts. 
Authorities said a man and a woman forced Miss Adams into a 
' ' 

She was released at 4:15 a.m. (EDT) yesterday -56 house and 25 minutes later -in the parking lot of a motel on Interstate 40 at Morgan­ton. 
She called police and her father from the motel -collect -and Adams and his wife, Anne, flew to Morganton to pick her up. 
Five hours after Miss Adams' 

release, the FBI arrested the two 
following a chase down Interstate 
40. 
Miss Adams had told police the 

car she was in was a light blue 
American sedan with Florida lie­
encse plates, and soon Burke 
County, N.C., officers were chas­
ing a car east on Interstate 40 as 
Catawba County, N.C., officers 
headed toward it from the other 
direction. 
The car swerved across the 

median, hit a guardrail and two 
persons fled afoot into a wooded 
area.· 
Authorities said Miss Baker and 

Garrity stole a second car and 
another chase began, ending near 
Conover when the auto crashed 
into a dumpster in the parking lot 
of a motel 44 miles from Morgan­
ton. 
SMC sponsors Civilization series 
The Business and Economics Department at Saint Mary's Col­lege is sponsoring Kenneth Clark's Civilization series. 
The series begins today. All 

thirteen segments will be shown on 
consecutive Mondays from 4 to 5 
p.m in Carroll Hall at St. Mary's College. 
The entire St. Mary's and Notre Dame community is invited to attend. There is no charge. 
,. . . f' • ' ~· # •. ,. /,.. ,;~ l• • ..... : f.· ....._. ,<I .... ·:· 
by Horenceann Strlgle 

According to Dave Bender, stud­ent body presidt:nt, until a new proposal concerning student invol­vement in the University judicial system is passed, "We go by the rules stated in the present Du Lac." 
This means that at present the option for a University Board review of a studlent case is still open. Bender says suggestions for student representatives to that board will be approved at the first meeting of the Student Life Coun­cil (SLC). 
"As it looks, I'm afraid the ~roposal to cut student representa­tion (from the U:niverstiy Judicial Board) will pass on Oct. 21 at the 

EPA proposes noise s1:andards 
wASHINGTON (AP) _ The Envi­ronmental Protection Agency' (EPA), hoping to take some of the noise and clamor out of city life, is 
proposing regulations to require 
buses to run more quietly.. ..,t • • • • • • • • • • • "Buses are an integral compo-•w 
ND

nent of the_u~ban noise problem," e,­EPA Admtmstrator Douglas M. e ....1­
Costle said yesterday in announc-•1-­ing the plan. "Approximately 93 a 
million Americans are exposed to ·sMC
levels of urban traffic noise which • may adversely ~Lffect their hearing a and generally makes everyday life • · 
unpleasant." 
• T. H E A T R E 
The regulations, which were • being printed in the Fe~eral Regi~-• ter today, would be Imposed In • 
three stages, with th~ final noise •
standards to be: met m 1985. In • essence, the final standards would require a bus to function about as 
~~~~-as the quietest bus now in 
The standards would be applied
to both exterior and interior noise levels. And tht:y would affect city:~::~~tyb~~~!~. school buses and 
The final standards would re­quire exterior bus noise levels not to exceed 77 decibels. Interior levels would bt: 80 decibels. 
According to EPA studies, exter­ior noise levels for city transit buses today range from 78 to 86 decibels, with interior readings ranging from 80 to 90 decibels. 
By comparison, experts say the noise from a subway is about 90 decibels. Some jets on takeoffs and landings generate 110 decibels or more of noise. 
The agency asked for public comment on its proposals. 
· trustees meeting," stated Bender. 

However, Bender made it clear that Student Government is not accepting the situation. In reaction to the proposal, Bender has formed two committees to "re-do the entire judicial system." 
The first committee, the Student Government Drafting Committee composed of interested students and guided by a number of faculty 
· members, met four to five hours nightly last week to rewrite the "faulty parts" of rules and proce­dures in Du Lac -"catching 
~:~~r~p::~_!~serting bits of the 
Bender commented, "Our aim is to clarify and simplify ... so that 
more people will read DuLac, and more people who read it will understand it.'' 
, . The second committee, compos­ed of a representative from each hall judicial board and Steve Dane and John Talbot, Student Govern­ment judicial coordinators, met twice last week. They are trying to 
increase the power and credibility of hall judicial boards by making these boards' duties and proce­dures consistent throughout cam­
pus. 

· 
"This week or next," said Ben­der, "Student Government will meet with Dean Roemer, Bro. Just Paczesny, vice-president for stu­dent affairs, Fr. David Burrell chairman of the Theology Depart~ ment, and Jeanne Swartz, a South Bend lawyer," among others-"to present its conclusions and try to fit its suggestions and the proposal together." The results of this meeting will be presented to the Student Life Council. 
Technical theatre 

organizes ~onite
1' 

A short organizational meeting will be held tonight at 7 p.m. in Washington Hall for persons in­terested in any aspect of technical theatre. Positions are available in lighting, scene construction, paint­ing, props, and other areas. Persons interested in serving on a running crew for any of the season's major productions should also attend. Call 4-4595 in the afternoons for more information. 
il • • • • • • • • • • • • e e e e e .... e 
ALL STUDENTS INTERESTED IN• 
•

TECHNICAL THEATRE WORKe ARE ENCOURAGED TO ATTENDe AN ORGANIZATIONAL MEETING• 
ON MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 12,• 
AT 7 PM IN-wASHINGTON HALL• 
AUDITORIUM. •
•
• 

FOR MORE INFORMATION CALL • 
284 4595 • • 
• -. • e • • • • • • • • • • • • • • .• 
~~!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~~!!!!!!!~!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!•'fn.:::-n 
PREPARE FOR:
MCAT •OAT •LSAT •GMAT ~-----~~· 
GRE OCIT liT SIT 
• ~I • II • II 
1MB 1.11.111·ECFM&·FLEX· IQE 
NATL DENTAL BOARDS • NURSING BOARDS Flexible Programs & Hours 
crhere IS • diffneruet!l 
c~n:cttion Please Call:  !M~­ 
West Lafayette  E~IONAL c~TEA  
463•7026s . Bl  .  TEST PREPARATION SPECIALISTS SINCE 1938  

ervmg OQJ!llllgt(}IJ., -Indianapolis. South Bend For locations in other ·cities · 
Outside N.Y. State Only CALL TOLL FREE: 800·223·1182 Centers In MaJor US Cities Toronto, Puerto Rico and Lugano, Switzerland 
ISAT, VAT, and GRE 
·ClASSES NOW FORMING 




H activities 
night 

TONITE! 
7:00 --llpm 
stepan center meet the major clubs and organizations on campus 
the observer Monday, September 12, 19n 

Chinatown youths ambushed in retaliation 
' 

SAN FRANCISO [API -Two young men associated with a Chinese youth gang were ambushed early yesterday, apparently in retaliation for a massacre in a Chinatown restaurant a week earlier, police said. They quickly announced a crackdown on gangsterism among Orientals here. 
It was only the latest violence involving Chinese youth gangs and within hours, Police Chief Charles Gain had announced formation of a task force to track down the killers in both shootings and attempt to eradicate gangsterism in the city. 
Killed instantly was Michael Lee, 18. Wounded critically was Lo Chan, also known as Mark Chan, about 19. 
The chief said Lt. Dan Murphy, · homicide chief, will head the 
15-member task force which will 
work fulltime on the investigation. 
Earlier the chief said, "You 
should not look at these gangs as 
operating in isolation. We have 
reason to feel these kids are pawns, 
cannon fodder if you will, being 
used by businessmen to do their 
bidding." 
Authorities say the current battle 
is over in gambling houses and 
extortion rights. 
Since the current wave of youth 
gangsterism erupted in 1969, some 
44 persons have been slain. 
At least 12 shots from a .38-cali­
ber pistol or pistols were fired in 
the latest attack at the three-story 
duplex in a middle class neighbor-

Home nursing course offered by Red Cross 
Red Cross Nursing Services are body positioning. Hpme nursing offering the first of six weekly 1can help in caring for the home­classes in home nursing at 9:30 bound, the bedridden, and patients 
a.m. on Saturday, Sept. 24, at the recently released from hospital St. Joseph County Chapter, Ameri-care. can Red Cross, 3220 E. Jefferson .' Home nursing will be taught by Blvd., South Bend. 1 Ernest Johnson, R.N. Anyone 
The course teaches basic nursing interested in enrolling in the course techniques covering personal ser-may contact the chapter house by vices for the bed patient, nutrition calling 234-0191. tips on tecognizing illness, and 
$'1
1501 I 


OFF I 

1 Regular Menu Price 1 I One Coupon Per Pizza I 
IANY FAMILy SIZE PIZZ~ 1 THICK OR THIN CRUST I 

5 to 7:30 Mon.-Tues.-Wed. Pizza-Chicken-Spaghetti-Salad 
All You Care To Eat 
1 

I PLAYBOY 
I Save 50% on 12 issues of Playboy-$9.50I (Now $19 00 on the newsstand) 
I Please enter my subscnpt1on for 01 year-59 50 (save S9 50')
I OUI• 
Please enter my subscnpllon for

I 
I 
01 year-$9.50 (save S9 50') 
I 
'Based on smgle-copy pnces. Rates apply to U.S.. US Poss.. Canada. APO-FPO addresses only 

\...._ "'Y~7~~"nled 1n US A : 
hood where Chan lived with his grandmother and sister, Murphy said. The house is located in the Richmond district, a half-block from Golden Gate Park and five miles west of Chinatown. 
"They were ambushed going into the entranceway, probably by two persons who were lying in wait inside the house," said Murphy. 
A witness reported seeing two young Oriental males fleeing from the house shortly after the 1:30 
a.m. shooting, Murphy said. Three illegal sawed-off shotguns and a .22 caliber rifle were found in Chan's bedroom, Murphy said. Ballistics tests showed none of those weapons was used in last week's murders at the Golden Dragon restaurant, in which three masked young Orientals sprayed a room with a shotgun, submachine gun and a pistol. Five diners died and 11 others were wounded. 
Murphy said Lee and Chan were affiliated with the Joe Boys, or Chung Ching Yee, a Chinese-Ame­rican youth gang that police say was responsible for the restaurant shooting. 
Gain said indications are that the latest shooting was revenge taking by the Wah Ching, a rival Chinese youth gang whose members were the apparent targets of the restau­rant shooting. 
Some Wah Ching members were in the restaurant at the time, but all escaped unhurt, police said. 
Murphy said police who normally are eyed with distrust in Chinatown are receiving more informatiOn than ever in their investigation of the current wave of violence. 

Art department offers trip 
be hanging a varied group ofThe Sept. 22 date for the Art graphics. An almost completeDepartment's bus trip to the muse­collection of the prints of Francisco ums and galleries of Chicago Goya presents the disturbing vision coincides with the presence of a of man's stupidity and crueltynotable array of art shows in the executed by this Nineteenth Cen­city. The presentations range from tury Spanish artist. Hiroshige'sa display of American Indian Art at famous woodcut series, "Views ofthe Art Institute of Chicago to a Mt. Fuji", offers a more serene survey of contemporary art move­look at the world. Various Notre ments celebrating the tenth anni­Dame classes in both studio art andversary of the Museum of Contem­art history will be visiting particu­porary Art. 
lar departments with their instruc­Besides its outstanding perma­tors. 
nent installation and the unique The Museum of ContemporaryIndian show, the Art Institute will Art is presenting a cross section of 
Danforth nomination meeting tomorrow 
An informational meeting on the Danforth Fellowship and Notre D~me's procedures of nomination will be held tomorrow at 7 p.m. in Room 121 O'Sh~ughnessy Hall. Notre Dame nommates four mem­hers of the current senior class for a Danforth Fello~ship. 
The Fellowships are open to all qualified persons. i who have seri­ous interest in careers of teaching in colleges and universities, and who plan to study for a Ph.D in any field of study common to the unde~grad~ate liberal arts _currie~­lum (mcludmg math and science) m the U.S. . 
Approximately 60-65 Fellow-shi~s will be awarded _to college semors ~h.o are nommated by campus L1a1son Officers. Another 35-40 awards will be made to postb.accalaureate persons ~ho ap­ply d1r~ctly to the Foundation. 
Apphcants for the bacca~aureate awards must be college semors and may not have undertaken graduate level programs of study beyond their college-level work. They must be nominated by Liaison Officers of their undergraduate institutions by November 15, 1977. The Danforth Foundation does not accept direct applications for the baccalaureate fellowships. The Foundation is currently mak­
ing  a  special  effort  to  bring  
qualified persons from  the  racial  
and  ethnic  minorities  into  the  
profession of teaching.  Approxi­ 

mately 25 percent of the awards are expected to go to Blacks, Mexican­Americans, Native American and Puerto Ricans. 
In last year's Danforth competi­tion, Notre J?ame graduate, Ken­neth Taylor was among the sixty-five Danforth Fellows selected from 
the na­

,': S~cial Half-Price Student Rates! •• OrderDirect FromThe Publisher! I 
I 

Namv (please pnnt) 
I 
I
Address 
I 

City I 
State Zip 
I I

Playboy College Center 919 N. Michigan Avenue I Chicago, Illinois 60611 
~ Paymenl enclosed. (Payment musl accom· pany all OUI orders Make check payable lo :-" Please send informatiOn on how Playboy I 1 can sell Playboy and QUI subs _ Bill me later (Applies to Playboy subscnpt•ons oncaa only) 
_,I


----------I 
tion. Taylor majored in the General Program of Liberal Studies and is pursuing graduate study in philo­sophy a,tthe University of Chicago. AH igu.(i:>f Notre Dame's nominees last yJar were among the finalists for the felowship and reached the personal interview stage of the competition. 
The Danforth Graduate Fellow­ship is a one-year award but is normally renewable until comple­tion ofthe advanced degree or for a maximum of four years of graduate study. Fellowship stipends are based on individual need, but they 
will not exceed $2,500 for single Fellows and for married Fellows with no'children. Fellows who are 
married, or are "head of house­hold" with one child can receive up to 's3,500. There 'are depend­ency allowances for additional chil­dren. The Fellowship also covers required tuition and fees. · 
the work of "name" artists in its 
survey of contemporary art. The 
shows in the commercial galleries 
in the neighborhood of the Museum 
provide more current work. Arte­
ni.esia, the women's co-operative 
gallery, is showing works by wo­
men artists of such national signifi­
cance as Judy Chicago, May Ste­
vens and Ree Morton. Other 
galleries are showing works by 
Andy Warhol, the "Hairy Who" 
and major "new realists" such as 
Jack Beal, Alfred Leslie and Wayne 
Thiebaud. 
Anyone in the Notre Dame community is invited to join the trip. Reservations may be made by paying the $5.75 fare in the Art 'Department office by next Mon­day, September 19. The buses will leave from in front of the CCE at 
8:15 a.m., Thursday, September 22, and will depart from Chicago at 
4:30 p.m. from in front of the Museum of Contemporary Art. 
High prices hurt bars 

[continued from page 1) 
from the university life," said 
Madden, "a place where you can 
have a good time with all your 
friends." 
According to those interviewed, 
the local bars will continue having 
lower attendances due to changes 
in operations. "The bars around 
here necessarily depend on the 
students for business," said 
Schneeman. "Canned beer and 
high prices will keep them away." 



MONDAY 
and 
TUESDAY 

NIGHTS 

9-11PM 
BEER so~/ can MIXED DRINKS 
75~ 
watch OBSERVER for future ads! 
~ 
! 

~--------------..-------------· 
Two-way effect 
Monday, September 12, 1977 
the observer 

Logan volunteers help and learn 
by Jenny Durkan 

Founded nine years ago, the ND-SMC Council for the Retarded, or Logan Center Volunteers, has developed into one of the largest volunteer organizations on campus. 
The focus of the group is to become involved with retarded children and adults in South Bend by offering them special activities and experiences which would not otherwise be available. 
The heart of the program lies in a 
Saturday recreation program where 
each volunteer works with an 
individual in the areas of music, 
arts and crafts, gym, swimming 
and various other activities. The 
program also offers many other 
special events such as an annual 
farm trip, picnics, kite flying days, 
Office houses 18 service groups 
by Robert Powen 

Eighteen volunteer groups are currently operating out of the Office of Volunteer Services. One-to-one volunteer activity is available in programs which serve the South Bend community, such as tutoring, visiting the elderly, Big Brother/Big Sister, and Hotline. Social aciton groups include C.I.L.A., the Hunger Coalition, and the Bail Bond project. Summer and post-graduate activities are offered. 
Each group is administered by a 
student leader trained in the of­
fice's leadership workshops. The 
office works closely with the com­
munity service directors in the 
residence halls. 
The Office of Volunteer Services, 
located in LaFortune Student Cen­
ter, is open Monday through 
Friday, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Interested 
students should contact Sr. Judith 
Anne Beatty, director. Information 
can also be obtained tonight at 
Activities Night, where all volun­
teer groups will be represented. 
SMC sophs 


hold meeting 
by Mary I.eveno 

The Saint Mary's sophomore class held its first meeting of the school year in the Regina auditori­um last Thursday. According to Debbie Roberts, sophomore class president, she and her staff "have been working very hard since school resumed to get a series of activities organized for the sopho­more class." 
Points of interest discussed in the meeting included the formal to be held on Nov. 12. Tentative plans have been made to rent the Sheraton Hotel. Cost and ticket information will be disdosed at a later date. Discussion also led to sophomore parent weekend which is slated for March 3-5. No definite plans for the traditional banquet, formal, and variety show have been decided upon. 
Other activities being organized are two "happy hours", a trip to Chicago, and possibly a SO's dance. 
Activities to be held in the near future are a Mass at the Grotto, providing there are no heavy rains. The Mass will be next Sunday. A picnic in Niles, with the Notre Dame sophomore class will be held on Sept. 24th. Transportation will be provided, however individual cost has not been determined. 
Suggestions were made in favor of having a ring ceremony. In-depth information concerning rings will be made available to students at a later date. Class officers will hold meetings every month. All sophomores are urged to attend. 
camp outs, trips to Chicago, and monthly dances. 
Perhaps one of the most unique. aspects of the . program is its two-way effects. Jeanne Conboy, co-chairman of the council,· stresses "It is not a matter of us being martyrs and jelping the 'poor unfortunates' Of the community. Every student who volunteers learns as much from his client as his client does from him. It is unbelievable how much you grow." 
Co-chairman, Art Koebel agrees totally sayiing, "The vounteer bene­fits as much as the retarded individuals he is working with do". 
Enthusiasm is a primary qualifi­cation for being a volunteer as well as a desire to learn while helping. Any stude111t is welcome. There are never too :many volunteers. There will be an organizational meeting this Wed., Sept. 14, in the Library Auditorium, or call Jeanne at 284-4391, or Art at 287-7509. 

Committee to advise 
-----·---· 

women 1n cr1s1s 
The Woman's Shelter Advisory Committee (WSAC) of the YWCA has recently been formed to establish and maintain a temporary residential shelter for women in crisis, with particular emphasis on "hattered" or beaten women. 
The Committee is presently seeking volunteers to give emotion­al support to the victims of abuse. Volunteers would be trained in a para-professional capacity to pro­vide crisis intervention; to supply transportation from an intervening center to the shelter; and to give the necessary empathetic under­standing. These volunteers would be on an on-call status during a 
specific shift. A training session will begin in October for interested applicants. Further information can be obtain­ed from the Volunteer Services Bureau, 2.32-2522. The Women's Shelter Advisory Committe'e plans to purchase an appropria1ce residence for women to provide short-term shelter as an alternative to suffering continued abuse arJtd victimization. The Committee's program is being sponsored by the YWCA. Present research and support is being provided by the Women's Center of the YWCA. 
DOONESBURY by Garry Trudeau 

UH-HUH. IAJELL, 1ELL n,HAM, JII5Tlk»J ~IS 71£ 5171JIITION, IINYNAY? H01JJ 11/le 8EJ([ANIJ JIMMY HOLDING UP tuiTH MOST OF 7lle PI<ESS 
" 


UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME SPECIAL 

Come to a 
Are you bogged down already? FREE 

"Knowledge is a reflection of reading" 

SPEED READING LESSON Increase Your Reading Speed 50-100°/o 
COMPARE AND DECIDE 
Dynamic A-ding l!lyat;.,. Inc. 
D.R.S. guarantees i11 writing to at least triple your Dynamic Reading Speed or you will receive a FULL refund. 
Advanced Course 
Ufetime membership enables our graduates to retake the course to· extend their skills at no additional charget. 
Tuition Assistance Payment Plan. NO 
Finance Charge!! 
$175.00 
Monday 
Tuesday 
Wednesday 
Thursday 
Friday 

Evelyn Wood Reading Dynamics Partial refund of your tuition If you fail. 
No advanced course known at this time. Their graduates are required to pay a registration fee to retake the course. 
Contractual obligation with finance charge. 
$295.00 

ATTEND A FREE LESSON:  
September 12 September 13 September 14 September 15 September 16  . 12:30 12:30 12:30 12:30 12:30  2:30 2:30 2:30 2:30 2:30  4:30 4:30 4:30 4:30  6:30 6:30 6:30 6:30  
All meetings held at:  

The Center for Continuing Education 
Dynatnic Reading Systetns Inc. 
A company established by a group of fomaer Evelyn Wood Reeclng Dynamics' lnatruc:Sora, uiiiZing ~MW CIGftCIIIII. 
Copyright 1m Dwnnr: ......no a.--. 
the observer Monday, September 12, 1977 
' 6 
Angela gymnasium 

completed, dedicated 
by Jeu Powley St. Mary's Editor 
St. Mary's Angela Atheltic Facility is 
completed and was dedicated in ceremon­
ies this weekend. 

According to Kathleen Cordes, St. Mary's director of athletics and recreation present policies for use of the building are experimental and will be revised as needed. 
The buii<Jing will be open from 8 a.m. to 11 p.m., Monday through Saturday and 1 to 11 p,m on Sundays. It will be closed on home Notre Daine football afternoons. 
Students may schedule courts one or two days in advance, between the hours of 9 
a.m. and 5 p.m. by calling the facility. When courts are unscheduled, players will be allowed to use them on a first-come, first-served basis. 
Faculty members will be allowed to schedule courts between noon and 1 p.m., Monday through Friday. 
Physical education classes, varsity sports, club functions and school functions will have priority over private persons' scheduling. 
Notre Dame students may usethefacility if accompanied by a St., Mary's student. Everyone must show an·'m to be admitted. 
Comprising 30,900 square feet, the Angela Athletic Facility houses three interchangeable courts floored with resin­guard for tennis, basketball and volleyball; a multipurpose area for fencing, gymnas­tics., tumbling, exercising and dance; two racquetball/handball courts; and a sauna, offices, dressing rooms and storage areas. 
Recessed seats will accomodate 2,000 spectators. 
Designed by C.F. Murphy and Assoc­iates, the $1.8 million facility is equipped with several energy-saving features. 
The vertical surface of teh building is covered with a translucent wall material which will ensure low fuel consumption during summer and winter. Because of its translucence, electrical lighting during daylight hours will not be necessary. 
The exterior end walls ofthe complex are designed as panels which can be dismant­led and relocated if expansion should be undertaken. 
J 
!; 


Opinion: Patty Berg a champion by Lynn Ovando herself in conversation. Although she could easilydominate any Patty Berg is a fascinating woman. I was conversation, Ms. Berg frequently truned fortunate enough to be her hostess while the subject matter to St. Mary's. The the famous golfer was in South Bend for school greatly interested her. She was very the dedication of St. Mary's new recreation impressed with the way the college is kept building. Over this past weekend, I up, as well as with the students themsel­probably spent more time with Ms. Berg ves. She felt that they were sincerely than anyone else. She is a very impressive happy to be here, and thought they were lady. very friendly and spirited. Ms. Berg is currnetly concluding an This will be Ms. Berg's last tour. In a 11-month U.S. tour, sponsored by various few months she will retire to her home in commercial interests sanctioned by the golf Florida. St. Mary's was lucky to have had association. Mr. Berg attend the dedication ceremony, I found Ms. Berg to be a great and I personally was very lucky and conversationalist. She has a wide know­honored to meet her. ledge of sports, both current and past, and Those who attended her speech entitled has met many sports "heroes" in her "The Making of a Champion" couldn't lifetime. help being impressed with her philosophy Ms. Berg is a very interesting person. on life. She listed what she considered She is inquisitive, humorous, philosoph­some characteristics of a true champion, ical, religious and although approaching 60 which included the will to win, dedication, years of age, extremely energetic. She has and above all, faith in God. a forceful personality, yet is very unas­Listening to her speech, it was obvious to suming about her own fame. She have me that Ms. Berg is, in every sense, a auto2raohs uoon reauest as she llives of chamoion.  

( 
' ­
-.'
:,......_.-. 

~------.,...-----------·---~------------~---------_...______"'!'!!'1''1'"-___........,.___,
.;t; 

rwomen's Spor~ 




prospects 
and 

prolllellll 
•••t••hr 9•11, 1977 
a weekend of athletic seminars, clinics and exhibitions for Athletic Directors and Coaches, 
in conjunction with the dedication of the Angela. Athletic Facility at 

SaintMaryS College lit 
Notre Dame, Indiana 4DsU 

Monday, September 12, 1977 the observer 
7 

Duggan heads list of dedication speakers 
by KeDI (:Onlln 
The Angela Athletic Facilty was de­scribed by Sister Kathlt~en Aim Nelligan as a "miracle in the making". Sister Nelligan, superior gene,ral of the Sisters of the Holy Cross, was one of a number of speakers at the ceremony who added to the ebullient mood of the day. 
Dr. John M. Duggan, president of Saint Mary's College led the ceremony which included many politi1~al, religious and academic leaders. 
The festivities began Friday evening with a reception in Stapleton Lounge for all speakers, athletes, and academic and athletic administrators. This was followed by a banquet and plenary session in the Dining Hall. 
Dr. Duggan presented his opening message and was followed by guest speaker Micki King Hogue giving a plenary address on the topic of "Women's Athletics: A Sign of the Times." Hogue, a former gold medalist in Olympic Diving is presently assistant to the director of athletics at the United States Air Force Academy. 
Saturday was filled with various clinics and thematic sesions highlighted by the formal deqication of the new athletic facility. Many well-known speakers and athletes presented clinics with topics ranging from a golf clinic given by Patty Berg, former Ladies Professional Golf Association Champion to a volleyball demonstration given by Dr. Donald S. Shendell and the Ball State University Championship men's volleyball team. 
Bishop William E. McManus who heads the Fort Wayne-South Bend Diocese, summed up the dedication ceremony by blessing the facility and by reading a letter from the apostolic delegate stating that "Saint Mary's is a winner ... a champion in Catholic education.'' 
The festive mood was enhanced by a Saint Mary's Tennis team victory 8-1 over DePaul. At the match the Saint Mary's team sported tee-shirts with the new school I'· nickname, The Belles, emblazoned on the front. The match marked the first athletic event played in the Angela Athletic Facility. 
[!Left] joseph Hickey of Hickey Construction Co., builders of the new facility, spoke during the c,eremonies dedicating St. Marty's gymnasium which has already won the Excellence in Architecture award for this region from the American Institute of Architecture. It has also been entered in national competition. [Right] Micki King Hogue, 1972 Olympic gold medalist diver, delivered the Keynote address at the weekend's opening banquet Friday night. [Ulhotos by Patt Herrmann] 

SMC team name 
voted to be· 'Belles' 
St. Mary's athletic teams will be called "Belles" from now on, John Dugan, College president, an­nou.nced Friday. night. 
The name was decided by stu· ::,:;..cleld"vote tatea ~tbia-"*·. 
', ·.·~ ::.. ;.4 ~ ~· . 

I I 
r . 

J 

.! 

I .-­


An Educational Requirement 
The requirements for graduation from Notre Dame are designed to expose students to a variety of subjects besides those in their areas of concentration. The object is to give students what is known as a "well-rounded" education. But there is one aspect vital to the total development of students that University requirements do not include: extracurricular activities. 
The word "extracuni.cular" does not exclude such things as the Frisbee Club and the Ornithological Society from the realm of the educational, but only from the formal structure of classes and grades. Activities are an outlet for talents and energies not tapped by courses and classwork. They expose the student to new aspects of Notre Dame and of the world, and they provide a common meeting ground for students with similar interests. 
Tonight, from 7 to 11 p.m. in Stepan Center, every cause, club and organization on campus will be recruiting new mem­bers. They will explain their purposes and their practices and sign up potential 
opznzon~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
ND's 'Peculiar Institution' 
_.._._._.__._._._..__..__.~tom byrne 
of the black students who demon­strated on the administration build­ing steps in April. They were promptly consoled with a cheer­leader and an inundation of embar­
rassed pledges of good faith on the part of the University. And while Notre Dame is not by any means a ' paradise of racial unity, no one on 
campus can legitimately claim that the University discriminates against minority groups. Why, then, all the talk of racism in the newspapers? 
· The answer is that few people unfamiliar with Notre Dame and its peculiarities can believe that any­
one would be suspended from a university for visiting the room of a person of the opposite sex late at night. Sportswriters in particular find it astonishing that Notre Dame 
would end AI Hunter's college football career for something that most 22-year-old adults would con­sider ordinary behavior. Under­
standably, they and others search­ed elsewhere for some sinister motive behind the suspension and eventually fell upon racism as a 
likely candidate. -They reasoned that racism is an unfortunately common ailment in our society; Hunter is black, the girl .is white and certainly no modem university would suspend a student for having sexual relations with someone else, much less for visiting a person's room after 2 a.m. Encouraged perhaps in some instances by personal sentiments against Notre Dame, they proceeded to write about it. 
~==============::::::--, 
()IL. /1AY8E I BETTFK
-HAK£ ALEFT AT # 5"6 
5TART OV£~
o'SJIAIJ6HN£5SY HALL Of UBERAL AND... FI#E ARTS AN!J GO 11WND 'IfSZ THF 
NIEUJILANb SCJrNr£ hALL . 

participants. Some will be service organ­izations, while others will be athletic or special interest groups. All will offer students a chance to educate themselves beyond the classroom, and to have a good time in the company of other interested students in the process. 
For a small community, Notre Dame offers a wide variety of new experiences that may never be available to the average student again. Now is the time to try something different or to develop further in an area of CUITent interest. Activities Night provides the opportunity for stud­ents to 'shop around,'' to see what kinds of opportunities are there. It is a chance no one should pass up. · 
Many of those who will attend Activities Night tonight will be freshmen, but there are many sophomores, juniors, seniors, and even graduate students who have never learned anything at Notre Dame that wasn't in the formal cuni.culum. These people may graduate from Notre Dame, but they will never be educated here. 
Once again, the University sub­jected itself to considerable abuse for the manner in which it attempts to teach its students the current Catholic theology on human sexual­ity. When administrators speak of parietals, they generally talk in terms of guiding personal develop­ment and of educating in Christian values. Yet parietals clearly fail to achieve any of these and other lofty goals; the only thing students learri when they are ushered out of their friends' rooms at the designa­ted hour is that parietals are obnoxious. Parietals are also an administrative headache, especial­ly for the dean of students. Each year, at least one tumultuous episode occurs in which students are dutifully punished by the dean for a parietals violation. No matter how scrupulously the dean might perform regarding other disciplin­ary matters, he ends up as a target for the scorn of the student body. The outcome of the Hunter incident is that the University is presently determined to alter its disciplinary procedures in order to remove the students from the process. They cite the stress placed on a student when he is asked to expel one of his classmates as the reason for their action, but perhaps the underlying source of the stress is that few students could in good conscience severely punish another for a parietals violation. 
Itis difficult to say when this will all end, but at least one thing is clear as the years pass. Parietals fail to teach, educate, guide or promote Chri$tianity, but they continue to astonish. 
-

by Michael Molinelly 
*The Observer ~ 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary'o; 
The Observer is published by students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries. opinions and letters are the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and letters are encouraged to promote the free expression of varying opinions on campus. 
EDITORIAL BOARD 
Marti Hogan Editor-in-Chief Martha Fanning Managing Editor Bob Brink Asst. Managing Ed. Kathy Mills Executive Editor Maureen Flynn Editorial Editor Barb Breitenstein Exec. News Editor Jean Powlev St Mary's Editor Katie Kerwin News Editor Barb Langhenry News Editor Paul Stevenson Sports Editor Pat Colt> Special Projects Ed. David O'Keefe Features Editor 
Monday, September 12, 1977 




P.O.BOXQ= 
Expensive, humiliating 
Dear Editor: 

When we were very young and tossed our spinach across the room, our fathers would take us firmly by the hand and demand that we not throw food. It seems ironic now that fifteen or sixteen years later the University must once again take us by the hand and. tell us not to throw our dinner. 
There were major food fights Saturday night in both the North and South Dining Halls. These fights were extremely wasteful and humiliating. They were wasteful because food is expensive, both to prepare and serve, and because dining hall staffs must work over­time to clean up the mess. They were humiliating because many had to sit and watch while the student community lost the respect of the employees who work hard to please us, as well as the University administration who must now suf­fer to discipline us. 
Many might argue that it is only a few who instigate food fights Well, then, it is the responsibility of the student community to single out these individuals and to sug­gest that the Office of Student Affairs adopt the following guide­
lines: 

1) Anyone caught starting a food fight or participating in one should be graciously detained and allowed to aid the dining hall workers in cleaning up. 
2) Ifthe person or persons refuse to help clean up, then they should be fined for their actions. 
3) Second otrenders <~;bould be placed on disciplinary probation for a state_d period o.f tim.e. 
Ll:======::;:::==~==:;::;; 
Now is the time the students should calmly and intelligently deal with this situation before the University is forced to. 
Jack Pizzolato Ron Haynes 
ND behind closed doors 
Dear Editor: 

Well, we find ourselves only two weeks into the semester and at­ready many of us have begun to wonder what really is going on behind Notre Dame's closed doors. Such closed doors sometimes are well disguised and for that matter may even seem open. At other times, they are completely hidden from view or according to informed sources involved are figments of overactive imaginations. Don't be fooled by what seems to be or by those who would reassure you. Notre Dame's closed doors do exist and are generally a result of what students do or don't do and how they do or don't do it. The students, and in particular their representatives, are their own worst enemies, both figuratively and literally. This is not a new state of affairs, but rather one which seems to have had no beginning as well as no possible end in sight. 
One need only look around to see how true this is, but the truth is that very few ever take the time to look. Some are indeed victims of their own self-made states of · isolation while others merely refuse to try or cannot be bothered. One can hope that things will improve, 
and progress has come in many
forms to Notre Dame over the years, but the energy wasted so often in the process is indeed a 
sorry epitaph for all of those who 
tried so hard. As a senior once put it to me back when I began in 1971, don't forget that this is Notre Dame and that the impossible, and for that matter the tragic, is common place if not demanded. felt sorry for him after hearing that and in addition a little afraid of what I might one day say myself. 
Notre Dame is, as the wise man once said, a great place to be from. I just wish I didn't feel so foolish in believing that it is a great place to be as well. It indeed seems quite sad at times, holding on to such a belief in the midst of such insanity that we students generate so readily. 
N~e withheld by request 
I 
I 
I 
L. 
Among \the more unsavory side­lights to the University's handling of the AI Hunter affair were the various insinuations of racism tossed about in the media as possible explanations for the sus­pension of one of the school's most celebrated athletes. The fact that the incident represented the sec­ond time in four years that black athletes had been disciplined for parietals violations, while no white athletes in recent memory had experienced such problems, led a number of columnists to conjecture that a discriminatory double stan­dard existed for the treatment of blacks. Some speculated that the University was particularly irrita­ted since both episodes had in­volved late night festivities with white girls, thereby breaching some unwritten code of racial conduct that supposedly governed social interaction at Notre Dame. Further, the high percentage of athletes among the otherwise mea­ger number of minority students enrolled in the-, University was offered as proof that blacks were victims of exploitation and racial oppression. The steadfast silence maintained by the University, though probably the wisest overall course of action, did nothing but fuel the speculation. 
Yet to most members of the Notre Dame community, the talk of racism under the dome must have seemed rather outlandish. Those with doubts about the University's committment to racial harmony before last spring certainly had to be impressed by the response the University gave to the complaints 
MOLARITY 

. . . .. . . .. .. .... 

Mondav. September 12, 19n the observer 
9 

Gov't fa,culty agree 
Hesburgh SLJipports Canal treaty 
by Ke,vfn Walsh From the time of the canal's .I;.atin_ America,'' stated Dowty ... 
Staff Reporter completion in 1914, the annual fee After spending last week in 
has risen to a present level of · Washington with the Joint Chiefs 
After attending a meeting last $2,328,000. of Staff, Dowty realized that the week in Washington D.C. with 1 Tht: new treaty, according to a new treaty was in the nation's best President Jimmy Carter and a brief distributed to the White interests. "In a military and select committee of government House huests, "gives the U.S. the political sense, not ratifying the 
officials, business leaders, and right to protect and defend the treaty leaves us much worse off 
other dignitaries, University Pres­Panama Canal with our military than otherwise. It puts us in a ident Theodore: M. Hesburgh has 
force:> until the end of this cen­much riskier position." 
announced his support of Carter's tury." If further states that "a Associate Professor Michael J. 
Panama Canal treaty. "I have the 
separate treaty will maintain in­Francis, also of the Government complete book on the treaty and definitely a regime providing for Department, said that the treaty is what it attempts to do, and I the permanent neutrality of the . an unavoidable and unpleasant 
approve very rnuch of the treaty, • • canaf. U.S. warships will be ·necessity. ''The Panamanians said Hesburgh. 
entitled to use the canal at _all . have our hands tied. The only way The controv1ersial treaty, signed times, regarless of the type of ·to criticize the treaty is to say that on Septembel' 8 by Carter and propulsion or cargo carried. Also, we will send soldiers down there in 
Brigadier Gem:ral Omar Torriyos of the freedom of the U.S. to maintain the future to protect the canal. It's Panama, is now before the Senate the <:anal's neutrality will not be just not worth it." 
where it need:; two-thirds support limited.'' Francis feels that debate on the to be accepted. 
Carter said of the treaty, "It treaty thus has been "stupid".
Controversy over the canal is not allows us to respond to Panaman­"Some people claim the U.S. is recent, though U.S. presidents of ian aspirations and still preserve being blackmailed, but what is that bother parties have struggled with our interests. This will give us an in iriternatior.tal relations. Coun­the formation of a new treaty for opportunity to work together more tries, at times, must give i_n to 
fifteen years because of increased effectively toward our common others. The claim that we should Panamanian complaints of the 
objective." sign the treaty because of our treaty's terms. 
Associate Professor Alan K. immoral acts earlier this century is 
U.S. involvement with the Pan­Dowty, .-of the Government and also wrong," stated Francis. "The ama Canal stretches back to 1902, International Studies Department, U.S. would be limited forever if we 
when Congress approved the agrees with Carter's viewpoint. "It tried to make up for all of our Spooner Act. This authorized is a test of our entire relations with immoral acts.'' 
President Th1~odore Roosevelt to buy the rights and property of the canal from a French engineering company for $40 million. 
The Hay-H,erran Treaty, signed in 1903, gave the U.S. the right to build, operate:, and control a canal for 100 years. The Columbian Senate, however, refused to ratify the treaty. 
Later that year, Panama revolted Carney '77' held Friday afternoon on the South Quad, featured a to create a nation independent from picnic dinner, balloons, a WSND broadcast, and live Columbia. U.S. naval vessels entertainment. [photo by Pat Herrmann] prevented Columbian troops fromI stopping the revolt. Three days 
Art Gallery 6eatures .::~~nt~;~~;~~:~ognizedthenew
I 1 
The two governments signed the ,# It h •b•t Hay-Bunan-Varilla Treaty in
I a c u y eX I I . November, 1903 which granted to 
the U.S. the right in perpetuity to 
The Notre Dame Art Gallery in has shown its art in the main build and operate a canal across O'Shaughnessy Hall is now exhibit-gallery. Before that, the newer art Panamanian territory and to have ing recently completed art by the was shown in smaller galleries for all the rights it would possess as if art department faculty. six years. Mostofthe paintings are the U.S. were sovereign. The U.S. 
According to Fr. James Flan-for sale. A list of prices can be paid Panama an initial sum of S10 igan, chairman of the department, found at the desk at the entrance. million, plus $250,000 annually. the reason for the exhibition is ------------·-----,
two-fold. "It allows students f taking art courses for the first time f





THE LIBRARY
to select their advisors and teach-f . l ers," he said. "Students like to t ' know what the faculty is doing and ,. l to see if their own work is f '-~ ....., ' compatible with their teacher's." A ~~~.--._,.. ff 
"Also," Flanigan added, "the ' ·~ ~· 
eX'hibition is an opportunity for the 
faculty to show their recent work, ft 
MONDAY & TUESDAY :
which otherwise would have to wait every four years or so to be shown." The reason for the wait, f NIGHT l 
Flanigan said, is due to lack of ' space, which will be alleviated with f 9 _11 Dl\ I A the gallery'sexpansion next spring. f r lY.l. ' 
This is the tmrd year the faculty tPITCHERS of 7 & 7's t Okt b f ' R.Uin & Cokes t 
o er est t ~ Gin & Tonics t meeting tonight ..0.\,.--PINA c~OLADAS' f 
Everyone involved in planning ! ~Uy '* . o·0. •f Oktoberfest activities should attend ' ~v (.,._" Only j)2 .f a meeting tonight at 9:30 p.m. in f -) . • A the Social Commission room (room A ' 
17) in the basement of Regina. ' __ _ j 
............~~....-.........-.••••.• ~ · ND TAE KWON DO • : KARATE CLUB : 

t master instructor: RAY SELL
• i' 
(._) 
HEART 
Little Queen 
. including: Barracuda/Love Alive/Sylvan Song Dream Of The Archer/Kick It Out/Treat Me Well Say Hello/Cry To Me/Go On Cry 
REO SPEEDWAGON "LIVE"ON EPIC, CAROLE KING "SIMPLE THINGS" ON CAPITOL AND HEART "LITTLE QUEEN"ONPORTRAIT. 
STEREOLPS SERIES798 







$4.99

1 

: 1973 World Champion
tACTIVITIES NIGHT: ss.oo off membership fee 

: free training manual 
'•••••!~~!!~.~~~!!2:!~-~N~E~~~~ 
__ --..:..&_______ ~ 
TO the observer Monday, September 12, 1977 

University accepts research grants 
The University of Notre Dame has accepted 5599,980 in awards for the month of August to support individual faculty research pro­jects, facilities and equpiment, and innovative educational and service programs, according to Dr. Robert 
E. Gordon, vice president for advance studies. Awards for research totaled 5523,718 and included: 
--5264,000 from the National Science Foundation (NSF) for high energy elementary particle physics by Drs. Dripendra N. Biswas, Neal 
M. Cason and V. Paul Kenney, professors of physics. 
--$82,935 from the Energy Re­search and Development Adminis­tration for study of energy con­sumption in fabric filtration by Dr. Teoman Ariman, associate profes­sor of aerospace and mechanical engineering. 
--542,300 from NSF for study of algebraic and geometric topology by Dr. Laurence R. Taylor, assis­tant professor of mathematics. 
--$34,700 from NSF for study of nonfalsifiable theories in the his­tory of science by Dr. Michael J. Crowe, professor, General Pro­gram of Liberal Studies. 
--$31,900 from NSF for study of the role of macromolecular anti­freeze in insect low temperature tolerance by Dr. John G. Duman, assistant professor of biology. 
--$27,283 from the National Insti­tutes of Health (NIH) for study of chemotherapy and metabolism of 
parasitic worms by Dr. Howard J. Saz, professor of biology. 
--$20,000 from the U.S. Navy for study of the electrical characteris­tics of graphite-epoxy eomposites by Dr. Walter J. Gagda, Jr., associated professor of electrical engineering. 
--$17,600 from NSF for U.S.­Soviet cooperative program cataly­tic reactor studies by Dr. James J. Carberry, professor of chemical engineering. 
--$3,000 from NIH for study of allergy and infectious diseases by Saz and Dr. Richard Komuniecki, postdoctoral research fellow in biology. 
Awards for educational pro-

under new management 
24 HOUR TOWING 
AND ROAD SERVICE 
Welcome Back Notre Dame! MIKE'S MAPLE LANE AMOCO 


272-6961 
UALITY WORK CERTIFIED MECHANICS TLAS PRODUCTS INCLUDING TIRES AND BATTERIES UNE-UPS CLOSEST TO CAMPUS PEN TILL 11:00 p.m. 

ACROSS FROM LINEBACKER INN AT ST · RT· 23 & EDISON RD. 



Stage 
WSND 
Sports Clubs [dubs #5-21] 
Media [clubs #1-4] 
Information Desk Entrance 
c... ·-­

lOo/o DISCOUNT WITH STUDENT I.D. ON PLANTS AND ACCESSORIES 



Posy Patch 
409 U.S. 31 NORTH ROSELAND across the street from Wendy's 


AT THE 

SALE RUNS SEPT 6-17 
grams totaled $15,810 and included: 
--$15,000 from the International Paper Foundation for a project using microcomputers to introduce minority students to engineering, directed by Dr. David L. Cohn, associate professor of electrical engineering. 
--$810 from the National Endow­ment for the Arts for a print-
Activities Night introduces clubs 
CLUBS 

1. 
Scholastic Magazine 

2. 
Science Quarterly 

3. 
Observer 

4. 
Dome 

5. 
Bicycle 

6. 
Judo 

7. 
Varsity Fencing 


8. 
ND Women's Sports 

9. 
LaCrosse Team 

10. 
Sailing 


11. 
Karate 

12. 
Hockey Booster 

13. 
Wrestling Matmaids 

14. 
Dolphin Club 

15. 
ND TAEKWONDO 

16. 
ND Judo 

17. 
ND Student Managers 

18. 
ND Weightlifting 

19. 
ND Ski Team 

20. 
ND Crew 

21. 
Boxing 


VOLUNTEER and GENERAL CLUBS 
22. 
AIESEC-ND 

23. 
Alpha Phi Omega 

24. 
Amateur Radio Club* 

25. 
Amerasian Alliance 

26. 
American Chemical Society 

27. 
American Cancer Society 

28. 
American Red Cross 

29. 
American Society of Mechani­cal Engineers 

30. 
Amnesty International 

31. 
Angel Air Flight 

32. 
Arnold Air Society 

33. 
Arts & Letters Student AD Council 

34. 
AVIDD 

35. 
Big BrotherlBig Sister 

36. 
Black Cultural Arts Council 

37. 
Campus Crusade for Chrits 

38. 
Celtic Society 

39. 
Century Center 

40. 
CILA* 

41. 
Cinema 78 Club 

42. 
Circle K 

43. 
Cleveland Club 

44. 
Collegiate Choir 

45. 
College Republicans 

46. 
Collegiate Jazz Festival 

47. 
Convent Infirmary 

48. 
Debate Council 


makers-in-residence program directed by Donald G. Vogl, associ­ate professor of art. 
Awards for service programs totaled 556,597 and included: 
--$46,477 from NSF for work at NSF under the Intergovernmental Personnel Act by Dr. John A. Poirier, professor of physics. 
--$10,120 from Catholic dioceses toward a needs assessment pro­gram directed by Rev. Vincent Dwyer, O.C.S.O., director of the Center for Human Development. 

Notre Dame also received $3,855 from the U.S. Office of Education for facilities and equipment to support the college library resources program administered by David E. Sparks, director of libraries. 


by Renee Levchteu music presentations, and a WSND broadcast. 
Activity Night will be held to-Jodie Korth, coordinator of the ight at Stepan Center from 7 to 11 evening's program, emphasized that Activity Night is not solely for 
The program will introduce and freshmen. Though sponsored by ecruit students to various school the Freshman Orientation Commit­rganizations. Close to 130 organi-tee, the program gives upper-class­ations will be represented. There men the chance to learn about 
slide and stage shows, and/or get involved in activites. 
Fe! owship of Christian Ath 70. Pittsburgh Club letes · 71. Pre-Law SO. Frie~s' 1'of the Mexico City 72. Pre-M~d Program 73. Physics Club 
51. 
Geology Club 74. Sr. Marita Day Care Center 

52. 
Government Honor Society 75. St. Pat' One Year 

53. 
Hunger Coalition 76. Society of Women Engineers 

54. 
Head Start 77. Society for Creative Anachro­

55. 
INPIRG* nism 

56. 
ISLI 78. Sociology Club 

57. 
International Students 79. Student Health Center AD 

58. 
Knights (and Ladies) of Colum-Board bus 80. Sudent Government An Toastal 

59. 
LAPEL 81. Student Managers 

60. 
Council for the Retarded-Logan 82. Student Union 

61. 
Long Island Club 83. Upward Bound 

62. 
League of Black Business Stud. 84. Volunteer Programs 

63. 
Math Club 85. Volunteer Services 

64. 
Mecha 86. Young Democrats 

65. 
ND)SMC Theatre 87. Right to Life 

66. 
Neighborhood Study Help 89. Urban Plunge 

67. 
Northern Indiana Hospital 

68. 
Ombudsman *Club subject to change in position 69Photo Club due to need for outlet. 




Some~a's 
most im~nt natural resources 
into the ground. 

Highly trained, hig_hly qualified, and highly dedicated missile officers in the Air Force. Getting down to the VItal business of keeping America alert. This is a specialized field available to a few very special men. 
You can prepare to enter this exciting field by enrolling in an Air Force ROTC program. Four·year, 3·year, or 2·year programs leadmg to a commission of an Air Force officer. There are scholarships available, plus $100 monthly allow· ances. And after college, an Air Force opportunity for a challenging job and with paid·for graduate educational degrees.
If you're the type of a guy who wants to plant your feet on a solid foundation, look into the Air Force ROTC programs and look ahead to becoming a missile launch officer in the Air Force. 
Get all the details ... no obligation, of course. 
Put it all together in Air Force ROTC. 



... w Monday, September 12, 1977 the observer 
11 



Estate Planning Institute to discuss tax plan 
President Carter's proposed tax Estate Planning Council. planning, uses of trusts in income sity; James Reinhold, Counsel to Professor Regis W. Campfield, simplification, scheduled for a mid­With Treasury Secretary tax planning, planniDtg for deferred the Minority, Senate Finance Institute Chairperson and Thomas 
: 1 September announcement, will be Blumeathal, a group of govern­compensation, orpha.n's exclusion, Committee; Charles McCaffrey, J. Passaro, president of the South discussed by two of the three ment officials have been discussing recapitalization of small Wharton School of Finance; Bend Estate Planning Council. highest ranking government tax the proposed tax changes in all businesses, will drafting, martial Lawrence Gibbs, former assistant Conference proceedings of the officials at Notre Dame Estate areas of the country. Their deduction analysis, and post mor­commissiotter of Internal Revenue; Institute will be published by R&R Planning Institute September 15-16 findings are presently under study tem estate planning. Sherwin P. Simmons, author of Newkirk, Indianapolis. ~dditional in the Center for Continuing by Carter in advance of his Other speakers include Frank Federal Tautlon of Ufe Insurance; information on the seminar may be Education. Lawrence Woodworth, announcement. Berrall of the Hartford, Conn. law and others. obtained by contacting Prof. Regis assistant secretary of the Treasury Woodworth's topic at the firm of Copp, Brenneman, Tighe, Notre Dame affilaited partici­W. Campfield, Notre Dame Center for tax policy, and M. Carr seminar will be ''The Administra­Koletsky and Berall; Professor pants include David T. Link, dea.n for Continuing Education, Ferguson, assistant U.S. attorney tion's Proposals for Tax Reform"' Lawrence Jegen of Indiana Univer-of the No1re Dame Law School; 283-3435. 
NOTICE LOST. Se1ko watch somewhere be-----~-------­
tween Senior Bar and Fischer Hall. Need ride to Cleveland for Friday,.1Sewing repairs. Reasonable. Call Reward. Call 283-1928 Clas ~.f: d Ad . Sept, 16. Call Kathy 1264. 8051. 'losT:-T'h.:;e-k-;,.;;."S~'th"Q-;;-ad SlJ le S --~-----------:--1 
I~----------~~--------------------------------1 
I Ty-;;i~~-R-;~0~.;b1;~;;-Call picnic Friday. Reward. Call 7957. 1 ~~~guys, it looks like this could bel 
1
8051. ---------------goodl(thls refers to year) At least ---------------myexpectatlonsare highl Remem. any desiring photos of Linda Rond-ber. as some people sa~, we need I stadt taken in concert Monday Aug. WANTED --------·-------FOr< SALE each otherl. Love and k1sses, espt,
I I
1
29(color or black-white( please con-Wanted: Michigiln State tickets. and all that'other garb. tact John at 8340 or 136 Zahm. Desperately need one student ticket General Admissiion, preferably. Sansui receiver _ watts. BARB
50 50 

1 
---------------to Mich. State. Please call4-4894. Will pays. Call4-4001 and ask for Garrard turntable. Shure cartridge. --------------­Byzantine Catholic and Eastern ---------------Jeanne or Mo. Pioneer 3-way speakers. Teac reel In proud acknowledgement Of North I 
Orthodox students at NO and SMC BIG MONEY FOR 4 GA. TIX TO ----------------to reE!I. Accessories. 8338. Quad girl's overt tactics in regard to as well as any others interested in MICHSTATE. CALL JACOB 8720. Need GA and student football tix to our bodies, we are yours in humility.• Byzantine church life should stop at ---------------any home game. Call 8051. p;.;d,;r;;-;,;.;.--;37$~;;-a;nd Grace hall RA's and staff (except
I 
the Campus Ministry Office (Mem-Will trade 2 Georgia Tech or 2 Army ----------------Ave. has the just published paper. Joe Scally). Questions?. 1651, 1814, II 
orial Library , near main entrance( for 2 Southern Cal. All G.A. Paula WANTED: 5 US<: tickets. Call Paul back version of Kurt vonnegut's 6716, 1693, 6869, 1752, 6774, 1784, before September 16 to sign the list 6354 ~.!.._~~------------SLAF•STICK for 20 percent off. Also 7824, 7820. II at the secretary's desk. Attempts -HE-L-PW_A_N_T-ED-.-RE-S-ID-EN-T-ST-U· Desperately neA"' 1 t'lcket to Michl-on sale are other best sellers. And --------------­are being made to organize a ~ newly Jn stock is TolkeJn's Simirit-"E" By_za_nt_ine_c_hr_ls_tia_n_org_an_iz_at_lon_. DENT CASlER AND USHER MUST gan or So. Cal. -call Dave 3542. lion. I'm beside you all the way because I BE ABLE TO WORK NIGHTS, --------------------------------I love you so much. You are numero
1-I
MORRISSEY LOAN-FUND WEEKENDS AND HOLIDAYS. Desperately nee'd GA tickets to For Sale: Panasonic I-track record· uno In my life.
I 
HOURLY WAGE APPLY IN PER1 Michigan State 11nd Southern Cal. BOZO 
SDTAUYDEWNTAILTO.ANSOSN20E· SP15EOR.COENNET SON TO MARIO RANDAZZO, FOR-Will pay goodS. Call Paul 1470. er. Excellent condition. $100 or --------------­
best •Offer. Call Brian 8760. 
I

I 
INTEREM'. DUE IN 30 DAYS. um CINEMA,52709 U.S. 31 ------------------·-------------Adldas "On Campus" Grand LAFOTUNE BASEMENT. M-F NORTH. WANTED: Two tickets to Michigan FOR SALE: GOLD AND WHITE Opening Sale-Shoes, Clothes, ---------------State GAME. Either G.A. or Acces. also: Frank Shorter Gear.
1
11 15 12 15 I 
I 
_.:___:_~__:_________ Julio's needs delivery personnel. student ticket. C:all Mark 1436. ~~~E 1 ~3~~PET. ROOM SIZE. Mon-Fri.: 7-9. Call: 3071. 425 All former members NO Karete Part or full time. Guarantee 3.00 ------------------·-------------Fischer I Club please assist at activities nlte per hour. Call 233-2354. Conduct historical research forCDis-Dissecting sets, supplementary --------------­in uniform. ---------------covery Hall Museum, Century en-Chem, Bio textbooks. Science CALL 8132 AND WISH KAT~·
1___________...:_~~~al ~::: ~3~e ~~~f!~~~~.nati or vicinity, ~~~tory~~;ri~~~ds~~~ie:t:~:.~t~~ ~!~'f~":is'"l::P;:::~· i~';!~ru~e:~ll ~:~~EN A ROWDY 20th BIRTH.. ---------------field. Some prio1r research-museum Scientific. --------------I 
I 
I 
WANTED: Two tix tor Purdue. experience desirable. 20 hours per ---------------Happy20th.ac8ean1QuGoOdeenl Yo;sure Will pay good bucks. 234-2999. week for six tCJ seven months; C have w"'·r.·1• .,,. .... -s. ...1...., you I
FORRENT omingware electric percolaton ''"" -"' ... 
---------------$3.70 per hour (coH~te pots) 50 percent oft. Clll have two ·plllowsl · Your loving
WANTED: 3 Purdue. NO tickets. roomies. M.P.&K. 
I Country house for rent for 1 to 3 2985. students. Ten minutes from NO Please call 4101 or 5431. Send resume by September 20, 1977 -----------------------------­
1

Campus. Phone 277·3604. 
wA"N-feO:-N'D~"Mis~s~;lt!;. ~~~OPe~~~~-Adrt~: ~~~:~:r:v s~:~ ~r~.·r~¥~~horsc:~'!ffe~u:~2~~~~ I L'I:e~~ :::~a year better. Sony I 
·-----~---------Very Important. Call Greg 8788. Bend, Indiana, ~16601. after 5:00. , you can't be around to enjoy tile 1;;-t-t;-;;:;;4-,;-..;;;-:-"No wA"N:r'EO:"Ti;:;;-;,-,M;-:-~~. ;;;;;j;;.,~;;;;"SR-56-,;;;;ar ::n~ne, You can never go llome I
1 LOST AND FOUND :r:.tb~~~~i;:;~3~~~-Michigan State ~~~~_!!.:._.:_~~~~:!~~~~ mme1ble Calculator with appll"tlons ~~~~~~~~~~~----1
I Found: On sidewalk 1976 Holy ---------------WANTED: Jii.NYONE GOING library, coding forms, operating S d M I K ... U
Cross Preparatory class ring. Call manuels, AC-DC adapter charger. 1 an y; on ca, e...y, sa, Donna, I Denise 4-54.02. 1606 after6:00 1
FOUR G. A. FOOTBALL TICKETS. NEAR BLACKSBURG.VA. DES·. Two months old. 277_ Vicki, Susie, Ann, Peggy, .Melinda· NO-SO.CAL TOGETHER OR 2 PERATELY NEoED RIDE ANY pm. ·Best Of life and love. Don't change
I --------------­
AND2. CALL288-1884. WEEKEND. WILLPAYII!. CALL toomuch. Justagegracetully.
1 
Lost: Wallet with I.D.saturday night I 
---------------KATHY 4-4287. -------------;--The Alumnus
between Engineering Auditorium 
Please -1 need four Michigan --------------I
I 
and Grace Hall. Useless to anyone tickets. call Alicia 1111. Need tix to Purclue and usc games. PERSONAU iX.C..uiav_________
else. Call Tom 6713. Reward. 
1 
---------------Call John 1196. I'm sony-take care of tlleplg-I'll Lost: Sklndlver watch wltll brown ATETTREENSTTEIODN INMUSSHIACIRAINNGSI YOIUN-R_ -W-111-pa-y-ext_ra_·-for-4-gooci--GAti;to To the WW's-Thanks for the watch the roos. 
1

leather band. Please call Mike at gree1ttst birthday ever. The tooiHAPPY BIRTHDAY JAN,
TALENTS? THE "CELLAR" NOW Michigan State. Joan 1280. CONNIE FROM THE JAY'S LOUNGE 
I

·~~~~~!~~~------L03103KOIRNG333FOI. R TALENT. CALL -----------------·-------------I' DERELICTS. I 
3 WANTED: 1 or 2 GA Navy tlcklets. 
1 
Lost: Set of keys In brown case. 
Call David 8697. ATTENTION TALENTED PEOPLE! Need ride to :::f"?ml....._ .Ind. (IU)
I Seven assorted keys, lost between ---------------__.....;.____________ SMC coffee House needs Enter-11100 ,,.,..,, D-1 Keenan -Walsh. Please call Desperately need tlckltts to Michl· talnment. For audition Cllll Karen this weekend (or any weekend). Call 
gan State and Southern Cal. Please URGENT! Need any number of 2_ VIcki 6751.
11 1051. 4035• 
call Marianne et 1262. Mich. Statetlx. Also need tlx to any --------------­I ------------------------------home game. 'call Donna or 'Sue: LooKiNGFORFEMALelsru.... Happy blrtllclay, Jan. Tllese.,.. 1M
1 
LOST DOG: Shepard-husky gold, black and white Lincoln Way, Port-WANTED: 4 GA tl*ts for 255-1147. DENT TO SHARE APARTMENT lloocl old daysl 11 age area. Very special. Call Becky Southern Cal. Will pay good bucks. AT CASTLE PT. $85 PER MONTH. Your frtencls & roomies 'call 1423, ask for Mike. --------­I 232-8382 EIEEIEEIZ...IIIIU~DIIIIIIIIIIfllllllllllllllll..~li~~~....................liiRillililililillli..r 
, .. 11'..j•'uu.oQ.~..-..,...,..,.!Wrar'....,_.'"....._. ...~-J.···V'·aao.r&.ll!-.~.to.& ••·•A· ., , .
4 

. . . .. ~ . "' . .....Af............. t·!!~...•:w-•-=•<~~·~-··.:.... ..:....~....t·t:~ ..·)l:~ ......lP~;~:r:t."'!.""'f' 
general in charge of the tax and Ferguson will discuss "Federal division, will join a faculty · of Tax Developments As They Affect seventeen noted authorities at the Estate Planning." Other subjects annual seminar sponsored by the to be covered include carryover Law School and the South Bend J?asis, generation skipping tax 
Thatcher, Carter talks open today 
anti-communist, pro-free enter­WASHINGTON [API -Hopeful of prise and suspicious of government bolstering her foreign policy cred-programs to redistribute wealth. entials, Britain's Conservative par-Most officials here believe the ty leader Margaret Thatcher opens Carter administration could get three days of talks today with along well with a government President Carter and other senior headed by Thatcher should she one administration officials. day become Britain's first woman 
It has been a tradition forBritish prime minister. opposition leaders to come to Nonetheless, there are some Washington, and Thatcher, 51, differences in nuance between who has led the Conservative Carter's approach and her own on party for the past two and one-half certain key foreign policy issues. years, is no exception. Her public statements about 
On her schedule over the next Eurocommunism are somewhat three days, in addition to Carter, more alarmist than Carter's. She are Secretary of State Cyrus R. also appears to advocate a less Vance, Defense Secretary Harold activist policy toward ending Brown, Energy Secretary James R. white supremacist rule in Rhode­Schlesinger, Treasury Secretary sia. 
W. Michael Blumenth..t!, Budget On the other hand, she enthusi­Director Bert Lance,. Federal Re-astically supports Carter's human serve Board Chairman Arthur rights policy, particularly its stress Burns, AFL-CIO President George on Communist compliance with the Meany and others. human rights provisions of the 
There has been a feeling in Helsinki Agreement. Britain that foreign policy has not She is widely admired here for been Thatcher's strong suit, and the political shrewdness she dem­she has been trying to counter that onstrated in taking over the Con­with extensive travel overseas. servative party leadership in 1975 Thus far ·this year she has met despite her lack of experience in 
with Pope Paul VI and with the senior cabinet positions. She was Chinese leadership. minister of education from 1970 to 
Thatcher's views differ little 1974 under the government of from those of the averageAmerican former Prime Minister Edward conservative. She is strongly Heath. 
AJ.MOf,T DIDN'T' RECOG,NIZE YOU ~y~ WITH '(OUR GLA~ES ON. 
CALL Bll..L GAUDREAU 283-7454 

----------~--~-----­
. 


12 the observer Monday, September 12, 1977 
Notre Dame escapes Pitt in opener 
by Paul Stevenson returned the ball to the Pitt 46 yard 
Sports Editor line. 
That Notre Dame drive, which 
Pittsburgh -The stage was set for lasted ten plays, turned out to be 
the perfect game. The weather was the most number of plays run in 
a sunny 76 degrees, the stadium one series for the Irish the entire 
was filled to a capacity 56,500 and day. Many thought that Notre 
the national television cameras Dame would be able to take 
were there to allow millions to view advantage of the young, inexperi­
the contest that matched the de­enced defensive line of the return­
fending national champions against ing national champions and consis­
the team expected to succeed tently grind out yardage. However, 
them. Although the scenery was in the immature Panther defense 
place, the performance did not proved otherwise, as they consis­
substantiate the buildup it rece­tently prevented the "experienc­
ived, as Notre Dame edged the ed" Irish offense from mounting 
Panthers at Pittsburgh Stadium, any serious attack. 
19-9. After the interception, Pitts­
The Irish received the opening burgh started a drive which would 
kickoff as Tri-captain Terry Eurick end in what was to be their only 
brought the ball from the endzone touchdown of the game. On the 
~t to the Irish 31 yard line. thirteenth play of the scoring 
However, the offense could only march, with Pitt faced with a third 
manage three yards in three plays down and four yards to go at the 
and were forced to punt the ball to Notre Dame 12, Panther quarter­
Pittsburgh. bck Matt Cavanaugh went to the 
The Panthers were also unable to air. With pressure from the Irish 
mount any offensive attack in their front four, Cavanaugh was forced 
opening possession and had to to leave the pocket. Then when it 
return the ball to the Irish. appeared that he was going to be 
Then, Notre Dame launched sacked by Irish defensive end 
their longest series of the after­Willie Fry, Cavanaugh found split 
noon. Starting at their own eight end Gordon Jones all alone in the 
yard line, halfback Vagus Ferguson endzone. The twelve yard touch­
cut off-tackle for five yards. down pass came with 13:32 elapsed 
Quarterback Rusty Lisch then hit in the first quarter, and when Mark 
Ferguson on a screen that gained Shubert added the point after, the 
11 yards and gave the Irish the Panthers led 7-0. 
first first down of the game. After On the touchdown play, Cava­
a three yard run by Ferguson and naugh was sent to the ground by 
an offside penalty against Pitt, the Fry, just as the quarterback releas­
Irish were faced with a second ed the football. The Pittsburgh 
down and two at their own 32. signal caller attempted to break his 
Dave Waymer gave the Irish a fall, but ended up fracturing the first down with his three yard radius in his left wrist. That play pickup. Then, Jerome Heavens marked the end of any Pitt scoring ground out four yards over right threats as the rest of the Panther guard and then gained seven yards quarterbacks were unable to co­and a first down on the following ordinate any timing on the part of Notre Dame call. the offense. 
Eurick carried for three yards The first act ended with Pitt still around the right end to move the holding their one touchdown lead, ball into Pitt territory at the 47. however, only 47 seconds into the Then the drive halted as Lisch was second quarter, Pitt tallied again. intercepted by J.C. Wilson, who Faced with fourth down and 13 at 
Ray 0'Brien::=:=:=::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;::=:=:=:=:=:=:=::;:;::=:=:=:=:=:::=:=:=:: 
Speculation 
·.:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:::::::::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:::::::::::::::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;::::::::=:=:=:=::ND 
Today 
Pittsburgh-While a Monday morning quarterback is cheap, after a game like Saturday's, every football fan has an irresistable urge to speculate, and the innumerable IF's have caused this urge to overcome me. 
The most obvious IF concerns the presence of Pitt's signal caller Matt Cavanaugh. This was one Irishman who didn't have too much luck Saturday afternoon. The senior quarterback had already notched two victories against Notre Dame and was vying for his third (only Mike Phipps achieved this feat with Purdue 1967-69). The hopes of the Panthers were riding on his shoulders. 
The Pitt fans had high hopes, and with good reason. Cavanaugh was coming off a season in which he completed nearly 60 per cent of his passes for over 1,000 yards and nine touchdowns. The Youngstown, Ohio native really came into the limelight towards the end of the season. He led Pitt to an all important victory over Penn State and then earned the MVP award in the Sugar Bowl victory over Georgia. 
With a sturdy 6-2, 210 lb. frame, Cavanaugh would not appear to be a fra\ile target. But fate would have it other ways. Last year it was a shoulder injury and now this wrist injury will keep him out for six weeks. This unfortunate incident killed Panther fan's hopes of beating Notre Dame, Cavanaugh's chances of keeping the Heisman Trophy in Pittsburgh and Jackie Sherrill's hopes of coaching Pitt to a second straight National Championship. 
Cavanaugh's game against Notre Dame lasted one quarter. At that time Pittsburgh had 44 yards rushing to the Irish's 36 yards (Cavanaugh carrying himself for almost half of the rushing total). With the senior P&nther on the sidelines Pitt managed only nine more net yards on the ground in 24 tries. In fact the defending National Champs could muster only 19 more net total yards in the next three quarters. 
These statistics spell out just how important Cavanaugh was to the team. Still these numbers cannot tell the whole story. The Panther offense lost more than just its timing. Irish star Ross Browner summed it up best when he said, "Matt was their leader and Pitt was just lost without their leader." Dan Devine also praised the opposing Irishman, "I was really sorry to see Cavanaugh get hurt. He is a fine player and a fine young man." 
Cavanaugh won his third battle against Notre Dame. In the one quarter he performed, Pittsburgh led the Irish in every statistical category. It is ironic that Cavanaugh's end and farewell to Notre Dame came on a brilliant touchdown pass that won the game for Notre Dame. Willie Fry brought an abrupt end to Cavanaugh's afternoon as he sacked the Panther captain as the final pass was released. 
There was little doubt in most people's minds that.ll. Cavanaugh was around at the end of the game the Irish fan's hopes for a National Championship would have gone the way of Pittsburgh fan's hopes. While Cavanaugh won the battle, Pitt lost the war. And l!J the age old adage reads "They don't ask you how; they ask you how many." 
I will be so bold to speculate a little farther that IF Notre Dame finds themselves\on the right side of the score for eleven more weeks, pollster and bowl committees will not remember an event that occurred over· two months ago. But Irish fans will not forget Cavanaugh and the first "Pitt stop to number oae." 
their own ten, Notre Dame's Joe Restic was forced to punt from his own endzone. The junior from Milford, Massachusetts fumbled the snap from center ad. Dave DiCicio darted in from the outside to bring Restic to the turf and increase the Panthers lead to 9-0. 
Late in the second quarter, the Irish drove 73 yards for their first tally of the contest. On the first play of the drive, Lisch faded back to pass, but with his receivers well covered, the junior signal caller found running room around the left end for a 17 yard pickp. Three plays later, faced with a third and 13 on their own 41, isch connected with Tom Domin on a down and out for another 17 yard gain. The next major pickup came on a 27 yard aerial from Lisch to Kris Haines, giving the Irish a first don at the Pittsburgh five yard line. On the following play, Lisch sited tight end Ken MacAfee free in the endzone for the tally. The extra point was blocked, however, the Irish had narrowed Pitt's lead to 9-6 with time running out in the half. 
The Iridsh received the football to open the second half, and on the first play from scrimmage, Hea­vens fumbled the ball and Jeff Pelusi recovered for the Panthers at the Notre Dame 30. The Irish defense, as they demonstrated the entire day, did not allow Pittsburgh to penetrate any deeper into Notre Dame territory. The Panthers had to punt four plays later when faced with a fourth down and 19 to go. The third act remained scoreless as the Panthers maintained their 9-6 margin. 
In the beginning of the fourth quarter, Wayne Adams, who had replaced Cavanaugh at quarter­back, fumbled the snap from center and Notre Dame's Mike Calhoun made the recovery at the Pitt 26 yard hne. Four plays later, when faced with fourth and inches, Lisch went straight ahead on a keeper but was unable to gain. The Irish were handed a perfect scoring opportunity but were unable to capitalize on Pitt's error. 
On the first play of their next possession, Tom Yewcic, who had come in to replace Adams, fumbled the snap from center and Bob Golic retrieved the football for the Irish at the Pitt 16. The Irish <Jfferise". 
.,.~as only able to move the ball backwards two yards. Dave Reeve was thus called upon to attempt a 35 yard field goal. The Blooming­ton, Indiana senior connected on his· three-pointer to tie the score at nine. 
Just minutes later, Ross Browner batted down an Adams lateral and then recovered the ball on the Panther 16 yard line. Notre Dame picked up only seven yards on the next three plays, so, Reeve was requested once again and senior specialist gave the Irish their first lead of the ballgame, 12-9, with only 5:42 remaining in the clash. 
Pitt quarterback Adams then rifled to Jones for a ten yard aerial strike, however, the junior split end lost the football and Jim Browner fell on the ball at the Pitt 11 yard line. Three plays later, Eurick tunnelled through for three hard-
IriSh wrestlers to hold meeting 

There will be a meeting for all those interested in participating on the varsity wrestling team on Wednesday, September 14 at 4:30 
p.m. in the ACC Auditorium. Those who cannot attend the meeting but are interested in the program should call Coach Sepeta at 7421, Mike at 1598 or Pat at 
8721. 
Tracksters want 
those interestecJ 

Ther• Will be an organizational meeting for anyone interested in participating in inddor or outdoor track on Tuesday, September 13 at 4 p.m. in the ACC Auditorium. Any interested student is encour­aged to attend. 
fought yards and the score. The extra point gave Notre Dame a 19-9 lead with only 3:10 left in the battle. 
That final touchdown may have depleted the already scarce Irish backfield a little more. Eurick, was hit in the heading for the endzone. The senior tri-captain either has a contusion on his back or possible cracked vertebrae. A final diagno­sis will hopefully be made by tomorrow. 
In the contest, Heavens gained 84 yards on 21 carries, earning him Chevrolet's Offensive Player of the Game. Defensively, Dave Logan, who had six unassisted tackles and two that were aided, received Chevrolet's honors. 
For the Irish, Steve Heimkreiter had ten tacklesd, followed by Ross Browner who tallied eight. On offense, Lisch completed ten out of 
• 18 passesd, while giving up two interceptions. 
When questioned about his team's overall performance against Pitt, Irish mentor Dan Devine stated, "We are definitely short of a National Championship off this performance. Right now, we certainly can't worry about a championship, we have to worry about beating Mississippi." 
"We certainly have some posi­tive things to reflect on. I like the way we came back to win in the second half. However, our offense is still very weak," Devine concl­uded. 
The ballgame may not have been a "typical" Notre Dame perfor­mance, but, the Irish did win and that's all that will be remembered in the weeks to come. Now, the Notre Dame gridders must prepare for their contest this Satruday against the University of Mississip­pi in Jackson. 
~· 

t'"a1nn1er signal caller Matt Cavanaugh was attempting to become only the seccmd quarterback to beat the Irish three years in a row, when he suffered a fractured wrist which will sideline him for at least six weeks. [Photo by Bill Reifsteck] 
• 

Bob Keen:;:;:;:;::=:=:=:=::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:::::::::::::::;:;:;:;::::::::::::::::=:=::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:·.:;:;:;:: 
Reflections 
:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;::=::;:;::=:=::;::=:=:=::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;::=:=::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:::;:;:;:;:;:;:::Epilogue 
Pittsburgh -The sun shone brightly down upon the fesitve crowd which filled Pittsburgh Stadium on Saturday. Electricity filled the air as both partisan and visiting fans eagerly awaited the commercial delayed openning kick-off of this "classic" game. 
· After all hadn't this game been billed as a match-up between two number one teams, last year's National Champion Pitt Panthers and this years pre-season favorite to succeed them, the Fighting Irish of Notre Dame? In fact, because of its importance and national interest ABC decided to move the game up a month and broadcast it across the nation. Both team's players and coaches had been preparing for this game for months while fan anticipation had been growing steadily since last year's romp by Pitt. 
All indications pointed to a contest which would surely be one of the better games of this or any year and most certainly would have a large impact on either team's chances for a national championship. 
Unfortunately, it quickly became painfully apparent that this was one game that both players, coaches and fans would just as soon forget. Actually, from a Panther point of view the contest was a success ltp until 
1:28 remained in the first quarter when Pitt quarterback Matt Cavanaugh fractured his left arm while tossing a touchdown pass to Gordon Jones. After this incident Pitt could muster only 20 net yards and two points the rest of the afternoon. 
The offense of Notre Dame had no such excuse and their overall performance could be termed as nothing short of terrible. Although the Irish managed to score 19 points, thanks to the generosity of the Pitt offense, they continually blew golden opportunities in the fourth quarter to put the contest away. 
Some critics might contend, with agreeably some element of truth, that the impotence of both offenses could be directly attributed to excellent defensive play. However, the defensive play of both teams was enhanced by numerous turnovers, poor execution and pathetic play selection. 
As the clock ticked down to the final moments the contest turned into a struggle not to see who would score the most points but rather who would make. tJte most mistakes. One might have been inclined to label this incredible event as the game which no one wanted to win. 
It is sad in a game such' as this that a victor must emerge, since for all intents and purposes both teams lost. But a win is better than a loss any day even ifit did little to enhance Notre Dame's claim to amateur football supremacy. Indeed, many would speculate that had Cavanaugh been able to finish the game the outcome would have certainly been different. 
Of course it would be highly presumptuous for anyone to write off the team's chances to win the national championship at this point in the season because of one poor game, especially since it was won. In fact, it is to Notre Dame's credit that it was able to overcome such difficulties and emerge victorious. 
However, unless the· Irish offense makes significant improvement, during the next few weeks, there is little if any chance that the MacArthur Bowl, signifying the National Championship, will be returned to Notre Dame at the end of this season. 








