~-~-----------~---~--~-~~~ ----~------~---­
-
Moving companies reluctant 
Summer storage hits snag 

by Mike Shields Staff Reporter 
The collection of articles for summer storage will be held this year from Wednesday, May 11 through Saturday, May 14, and again on Monday, May 16. The only problem, according to Student Union Services Commissioner Mike Schlageter, is finding a company that will store Notre Dame students articles until classes resume in the 
Fall. 
Schlageter said the moving com­panies which offer storage services are reluctant to take the job because of the amount of com­plaints received last year and because of a lack of warehouse space. He noted that most com­panies would have to rent storage 
A pair of wild ducks has adopted the reflecting pool as their new temporary home-maybe a vacation, far from the madding crowd at St. joseph's Lake. Surely, at least, they enjoy the weather. [Photo by Kevin Walsh] 
Council rejects move for evening exams 
by Bob V arettoni Senior Staff Reporter 
The Academic Council voted 30-19 against a proposal that would have restored the opportunity for evening exams. The result of this decision, reached during a closed meeting yesterday afternoon in the C.C.E., means a continuation of the current policy of the 8-9:30 a.m. Tuesday-Thursday exam period. 
The Council rejected the pro­posal though the results of a Student Government survey, com­pleted Sunday, show that over 53 percent of on-campus Notre Dame undergraduates favor night exams. 
This survey was submitted to the Council, and it included 2,137 participants. 
"Students are almost evenly divided on preferences between 8 
a.m. and night exams," the survey concluded. "Therefore, if one is made the norm, other options should be offered." However, the rejection of the proposal does not allow for the option of night exams. 
The Academic Council also re­jected a proposed extension of the current ten class day deadline for students who wish to take a pass-fail option. Instead of voting to extend the deadline to twenty class days, the Council voted to cut the deadline back to seven days. This will make the time available to take a pass-fail option conform to the ordinary add-drop period. 
Elected alternates, the Council recommended, should be allowed to represent student and faculty members of the Academic Council at future meetings. The substi­tutes would have speaking privi­leges, but they would not be allowed to vote. 
This recommendation needs rati­fication by the Board of Trustees before becoming effective. It is alreaciy the policy of the Academic 
Last call... 
Wednes~ay's will be the last 
regular issue of The 
Observer. There will be a 
special commencement issue 
published on May 20. 
Personals and classified ads 
will be accepted until Friday, I May 6. 
Council that ex-officio members 
caQ be represented at meetings by 
their deputies. 
The Academic Council also dropped the requirement for ''good academic standing" in the cases of inter-college transfers. Now, to obtain an inter-college transfer, by Katie Kerwin "approval of both deans" is News Editor necessary. The accepting dean maintains discretion about which Editor's note: This is the final credits are acceptable toward the article in a five-part series on the degree in the new college. Church's minlstry to the elderly. 
Monetary charges for credit hour Yesterday's article explored the overloads were officially eliminated ministry of Harvest House in South by the Council. These charges Bend, which tries to serve the were never imposed, but now the spiritual and psychologicid needs of approval of a student's dean in the elderly, which are often ignored by criteria for permitting overloads. the service organizations that care This resolution passed unani­for their physical and material mously. needs. Today's article will con· 
The present student leave of sider some other movements within absence policy, scheduled for re­the Church for increased spiritual, examination at yesterday's meet­political, educational and pyscho­ing, was reaffirmed by the Council. logical development in ministry to 
In a letter to University Provost Fr. the elderly. James Burtchaell, Richard Sulli­van, Notre Dame Registrar, had "It is not enough to add new noted that "observations relative to years to life; our objective must be this present policy have generally to add new life to those years," been favorable and supportive of President John F. Kennedy once its continuation.'' said. 
South Quad Mass, picnic to honor Hesburgh's 25th 
by Marian Ulicny According to Dave Bender, stu­Senior Staff Reporter dent body president, the celebra­tion is planned as the students' Student government will sponsor contribution to the series of events a Mass and campus barbeque on honoring Hesburgh's anniversary. Thursday to celebrate the 25th ''The faculty and the alumni had anniversary of Fr. Theodore Res­banquets for Fr. Hesburgh, but the burgh, University president. reason we chose a picnic was 
Mass will begin at 5 p.m. in front because he really enjoys the stu­of Fr. Sorin's statue on the quad dents," Bender noted. extending in front of the Adminis­"We think the best way to honor tration building. Music will be him is to have him come down and provided by the Notre Dame Glee enjoy the students' company," he Club and a folk group comprised of added. "In this way, all the Patty Dondanville, Ricky Flores, students can participate, and we Mike Brunner, Clara Basile, Julie hope they all will." Thorson, Lisa Easley, Tom Min­Invitations will be sent to all dock and Mike Ball. Hesburgh will Notre Dame students, faculty and be the celebrant. staffmembers tomorrow. "This is 
Following the Mass, a picnic Notre Dame celebrating, not just 
dinner will be served on the south the students,'' Bender explained. 
quad at 6 p.m. The menu will "Even though it's the students who 
include barbequed chicken, potato are sponsoring it, we want every­
salad, coleslaw, assorted relishes, one to come." 
Notre Dame buns, brownies and In the event of rain, the Mass 
lemonade. 'Live entertainment by will take place in Sacred Heart 
the California Street String Band is Church Dinner will then be served 
tentatively planned. in the respective dining halls-. 
facilities because of the awkward nature of the material. There were over 450 couches stored last sum­mer, for example. 
Schlageter stressed that nego­tiations with the companies are still going on, and a company will be found. The insurance situation will depend on the company with which an agreement is reached. Students may have to insure their posses­sions independently, he added. 
"Last year's storage was run efficiently," Schlageter said, "but a handful of students ruined it for all." The students' complaints caused some problems, which he saiit llre now showing their effects. 
Schlageter intends to set up a complaint board this year which would screen complaints from stu­dents. The four-member board, 
consisting of Schlageter, his assis­
tant, and two others, would work 
with the storage company to iron 
out difficulties. 
Schlageter would also like to see 
Student Union representatives at 
lhe loading and delivery of articles 
to take inventory. He hopes this 
would end some of the confusion 
that surrounds these events. 
Schlageter asks that all articles 
be brought in on time and be taken 
to the right place. If students 
comply, it will prevent "a lot of 
hassle." 
Times and locations for the pick-ups will be posted on compus by Monday at the latest. The Student Union feels responsible for organizing a summer storage pro­gram, because "we do represent 
the students," said Schlageter. 

The U.S. Catholic Bishops pro­claimed the right of the elderly to "new life: not just to material survival, but to education, recrea­tion, companionship, honest human emotions, and spiritual care and comfort," in their statement a year ago. 
Many feel that yrhile the Church has become increasingly active in providing the elderly with basic necessities such as food and housing, it has not been as success­ful in meeting their spiritual needs. 
The irony lies in the neglect of the Church's essential mission--to see to the spiritual well~being of its members. 
Attempts at better co-ordination of chaplaincy service have been the response of some church groups. Priests, deacons and lay people bring religious services and sacra­ments to those in nursing homes or hospitals and to shut-ins. 
Sensitivity to the elderly in the areas of counseling and liturgy planning are also important con­siderations in Christian ministry. Liturgical changes, especially since Vatican II, can easily alienate older Church members accustomed to the traditional services. 
Integral part of parish life 
Parishes must also make an effort to keep Church members active past the time when they are students or parents of students. Education plays an important role in local Church life, but the elderly should not be left out of parish activities once their participation in the educational system is ended. 
Msgr. Charles Fahey, a member of the Federal Council on Aging, distinguishes between what he calls the "young elderly" and the "frail elderly." The frail are the highly vulnerable group, usually over 75. The younger group constitutes a "special challenge," he said in an article in the National Catholic Reporter last week, because they are the "backbone of the church-going population" at this time. 
So far, this age group has not been exploited for its leadership,· Fahey said. Most churches involve 
such people only in recreational 
activities, while they ought to be 
using them to "do the work of the 
Church." 
The young elderly are prime candidates to help the frail elderly, in the opinion of Fahey and others. This concept is put into practice in St. Joseph's parish in the Minne­apolis suburb of New Hope, where older members organized, with assistance from the parish staff. Older parishoners visit nursing homes, deliver meals, provide transportation for less independent e11erly in their locality. 
The Mental Health Outreach 
Program (MHOP) at Notre Dame 
operates on a similar concept, 
reaching out to elderly with psycho­
logical and related problems. The 
program prepares middle-aged and 
older adults to work in a parapro­
fessional capacity. 
About 30 trainees are accepted into the program each year for an approximately six-month training period, which included coursework and a closely supervised intern­·ship. The course program includes .lectures, discussion sessions and videotaped materials dealing with physical and psycho-social aspects of aging, family problems, mental helath problems, an introduction to counseling and clinical techniques, program availability and utiliza­
1 

1tion, and death and dying. · MHOP is under the direction of 
Dr~ John F. Santos, professor and 
former chairman of psychology and 
head of the Geropsychology 
Program. Richard W. Hubbard 
acts as training supervisor. 
Fr. Louis Putz, founder and 
executive director of Harvest 
House, a movement for and by the 
elderly in South Bend, advocates 
the development of a lay apostolate 
to extend ministry to the whole 
Church and make it more people­
oriented. 
Putz also stressed the import­ance of building up neighborhood ties now that modern, mobile society has somewhat broken down family ones. "It is important for us to redevelop !neighborhoods· into :friendly communes," he said. 
Perhaps the most prevalent 
(continued onpage 2] 


Tuesday, May 3, 197_7
2 
the observer 

----1\fews Briefs---Carter to· 'scrap' present welfare 
t========lntemational 
Tribesmen stop laborers 
RAWALPINDI, Pakistan--Armed mountain tribesmen suppor­ting the current anti-government movement have encircled some 1,200 Chinese laborers working on the Karakoram highway near the Chinese border, an informed source reported yesterday. The tribesmen have cut off roughly SO miles of the projected highway. The workers were bottled up in camps as near as 70 miles to Pakistan's border with China. 
Soviet pleads guilty 
BOSTON . The captain of the Soviet trawler seized for violating the 200-mile limit pleaded guilty yesterday to breaking U.S. fishing laws. The plea clears the way for the release of the 27S-foot Taras Shevehenko, which has been idled in Boston Harbor since it was seized by the Coast Guard on April 10 off NantUcket Island. 
~ather~eather~eather~eat 
SOUTH BEND--Today will be partly cloudy and humid, with a 40 percent chance of rain and highs in the low to mid-60's. There is a SO percent chance of showers and thunderstorms tonight with lows in the low to mid-SO's. More rain is expected tomorrow, with highs in the low 70's. 
---On Campus Toda1r~....... 
9 am-11 am & coupon redemption. door 2 laundry plant. continues 1 pm-3 pm through may 6. 
1 pm 4 pm 
4:30pm 
4:30pm 
7, 9 & 
11 pm 7:30pm 
7:30pm 
10 pm 
9:30 pm 

11:30 pm schwallie, george adelia. nazz. admission $.50. 
~--------------------~1 
Church seeks new minist.ryl 
t. d fr lJ[

con mue om pag~ . . , Church-based orgamzatton IS the pari~h senior citizen club: Wh.e~her they re called VIP, Semor Citizen or Gol~en Ag:r Clubs, the c~mmon de~omma~o~ IS the fellowship and soctal acttvlty .that these groups. offer. Cards, b~ngo, cra~s, lunch­eons and occastonal services s~ch 
as .s.tuffing envelopes for partshma!h.n~s are the standard club acttvtttes. . . . . 
The ~ompamonshtp ~nd soctabtl­ity pansh clubs provide fu~fill a need of many elderly • but, m the 
~iew of many people, they are ani madequate response to the com­plex problems the aged . face. Political efforil? to or.gamze the 1 
elderly, sometimes With Church 
*The Observer 
. . . . N1ght E~1tor: Bt~l Rtvard . Asst. N1ght Ed1tor: Steve 
Odland 
~yout Staf~: Sandy Colson, Ct~dy .McKtel • Ed1tor1al Layout. Mo Flynn 
Sports layout: Frank 
LaG_rott.a, Paul Stevenson Typ1sts .. Mel Celeste,. Nancy Cueron~, K~ren Chtames, S~ephame Unllo Night Controller: Donald P. 
Roos . . . 
Day Editor. Mary Pat ~~rpey CopY, Reader:. Bob Gold Star Var~ttom Ad layout. Pat Ru.ssell 

presentation. air force rotc spring awards ceremony. library aud. 
lecture. "australia and international politics in the pacific" by prof. gordon greenwood, dept. of history, university of queensland, australia. area studies reading room, 1201 mem. library. 
seminar. "maternal storage products during oogen-, esis in the diptera coelopa fridiga" by dr. fritz e. schwalm, dept. of biological sciences, illinois state university. rm 278, galvin life science center. 
I I I 

forum on aging. "the elderly as advocates fori 
change in our society" by margaret e. kuhn, national convener, gray panthers, philadelphia. mem. library aud. 
film. "paper chase" eng. aud. $1. 
movie. "turning a sphere inside out." room 226 math and computer building admission free. meeting. charismatic eucharistic prayer meeting. 
:::~:~~n;ght> of mlumbu> ;o.t•II•Hon of off;cec> ::::h:e::~:~~~rb::g::11 ·center. 
jack kelleher, ed 

told TIME, "and we want none of that. The system is what needs I changing." 
Kuhn will be speaking on the I elderly as advocates for change in. society in a talk tomorrow in the ND' I Library Auditorium at 4:30 p.m. I Her lecture is the last in a series of1 the Forum on Aging, sponsored by.! 1 the MHOP and the Applied Pro· gram in Gerontological Education,' I Research and Services. 
Some of the political activism I 
efforts ar<! getting Church support, 1 at least indirectly. The Jackson­ville, Fla. diocese has backed the! I 
Congress of Senior Adults' cam-' paigns on food stamp grievances, backing, are surfacing around the I 
country. 
While those over 6S make up I about ten percent of the popula­tion, they account for an estimated I 1S percent of the vote, being more likely to register and vote than the I young. Recognizing the potential I muscle of their vote, the trend is toward formation of coalitions to I make the voice ofthe elderly heard in political circles. I 
One of the most notable among 1 these is the Gray Panthers, founded in 1970 by Maggie Kuhn, I not 71 a retired Philadelphia staff memb~r of the United Presbyterian :I 
I fNOriCEiil 
•• FREE 1 
I UNIVERSITY I1 
1n registration II 
WASHINGTON [AP] -President Carter proposed scrapping the present welfare system yesterday and replacing it with a multi-tiered program to provide jobs for those who can work, cash for those who can't and income tax credits for the working poor. 
HEW Secretary Joseph A. Cal­ifano, Jr., who called welfare reform "the Middle East of dom­estic politics," told reporters the eventual cost of the plan and many details still have not been worked out. 
The President promised he would complete the legislative proposals to implement the new system by the first week in August after consultations with legislative leaders in each of the SO states. 
He said the initial cost of the revised system he will propose won't cost any more than the present system, which is now budgeted at $23.6 billion for fiscal 1978. Carter said a three-month study of the welfare system by the Depart­ment of Health, Education and Welfare and other agencies had convinced him ''that the present welfare programs should be scrap­ped entirely and a totally new system implemented.'' 
"If the new legislation can be adopted early in 1978, an additional tnree years will be required to implement the program," Carter said. 
The Observer is publ1shPd Monday through Friday and weekly during the summer session, except dunng the exam and vacation periods The Observer is published by students of the UnivPrsity of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College Subscriptions may be purchased for $20 per year ($10 per semester) from The Obser­ver, Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 
ThP Observer is a member of the Associated Prpss All reproduction nghts are reserved 
8:30 . 4:30pm 
OPEN TO ANYONE!l 
QUESTIONS??? 
call 7638! 

The President said the cost of Carter said the system would welfare to state and local govern­include incentives to encourage ments "should be reduced as people to take jobs in tll,e private rapidly as federal resources per­sector rather than public service: mit," but stopped short of promis­jobs. He said it also would encour­ing a federal takeover of the system age people to work by ensuring that as many states have urged. a family with at least one person 
Carter, Califano and Labor Se­working would make more than a cretary F. Ray Marshall presented family on welfare. only a broad outline of the propos­He also pledged that incentives ed legislation and gave few details. would be designed to keep families 
The Carter plan includes: together. In many states, the --Up to two million public service present system makes it financially jobs designed to give access to a rewarding for a working father to job to every family member able to leave home and let his family go on work. welfare. --Earned income tax credit for the "The programs should be sim­working poor, possibly higher than pler and easier to administer," present levels or supplemented Carter said, and "there should be with cash. incentives to be honest and elimin­--"A decent income:" for those ate fraud." who can't work, with the benefits He said the government would now provided by Aid to Families · provide training and employment with Dependent Children, Supple­programs for those who can't find mental Security Income and food work in private industry. stamps consolidated in one cash Marshall said the public service payment. The payment would be jobs the administration has asked the same for all recipients nation­for in its economic stimulus pack­wide except where adjusted for age would be phased into the cost-of-living differences. welfare system. 

LJ..J 

:I: Fiddler on the Roof
ND

1-The loving theatrical hymn 
to the Jewish people based on the Sholem Aleichem stories 
MAY 5, 6, 7 8:00pm THEATRE O,Laughlin Aud. 
SMC 

STUDENTS 
Help us help others ... place your 
useable clothing and other small items in the containers provided in your hall. To arrange for pick up of furniture or other large items, please call 234 -6000. 
St. Vicent DePaul Society 230 E. Sample South Bend, Indiana 

Reduced prices -Free T -shirts Free giveaways -l\lluch More 

~--'Jlr 
-d: 

Tuesday, May 3, 1977 the observer 
Reverse discrimination case 'won't affect ND' 

~~~~~~~~~~~ 
by Bob Mader Staff Reporter 

Editor's Note: This Is the final segment In a two-part series on the Impact of the Bakke vs.Boanl of ""'Kegenta decision on affirmative ~~etfon programs. Today'• lnstaU­ment on the effect of the case on Notre Dame. 
While the outcome of the Bakke case is of importance to those employers with federal contracts and to state administered schools, Notre Dame officials are not con­cerned with the outcome of the case. Donald Kommers, director of the Notre Dame Center for Civil Rights, doesn't believe the case will affect Notre Dame. 
Frosh Orientation events tentatively scheduled 
by John O'Donnell Activities for next year's fresh­men orientation are currently being 
planned by the Freshmen Orienta­tion committee. Carey Ewing and Nanette Bufalino, co-chairpersons 
of the Freshmen Orientation com­mittee, stressed the need for unity and social interaction between the various dorm and campus-wide orientation programs. 
Bufalino stated that activities will begin Friday, August 25 and Saturday August 26, with tours of the campus. The committee re­quests that every dorm provide two people to conduct these tours. For those freshmen who have arrived at an earlier date to take examina­tions, the committee plans to run a movie at Stepan Center on Friday 
The 

'$1 00,000 Bar' 
heist 

BECKLEY, W.Va. (AP)-The Candy Wrapper Gang was caught in the act inside the Raleigh County National Bank. 
Police officer Chuck Alexander said he answered an alarm Sunday and captured four boys ranging in age from 7 to 13. 
The loot, Alexander said, inclu­ded pencils and candy from the tellers' windows. He said the floor was littered with candy wrappers. 
The boys, who were released to their parents, were supposed to be in Sunday school, said the officer, but had slipped out a side door of the church. 
The boys were charged with unlawful entry and trespassing, Alexander said. But he added the gang was just "mischievous more than anything." 
He also said bank security was being investigated. 
"No one has the constitutional right to attend Notre Dame since we're a private institution." he noted. If an applicant felt that he had been discriminated against, he would have to sue on grounds other than the Fourteenth Amendment as Bakke is doing. 
Director of Admissions John Goldrick said he won't worry about the case until the Supreme Court rules. From his understanding of the case, he doesn't see any parallel with admissions policy of Notre Dame and those attacked in the case. Director of Graduate Admissions Fr. Robert J. Austgen knows of no federal regulations regarding graduate school admis­sions to Notre Dame. 
Minority professors and students at Notre Dame, though are con-
night. With the majority of freshmen arriving on Saturday, the commit­tee plans to have signs posted for 
directions to the various dorms. Saturday night, Emil T. Hofman, Dean of the Freshman Year of Studies, plans to have a conference with the freshmen and their par­ents. Following this conference, Bufalino stated there might be informal freshmen meetings within 
the dorms. Sunday begins with the World Program directed by Hofman at the ACC. Mass will be offered, and the box lunches will be distributed to the freshmen audience. Last year, this program featured such speak­ers as football coach Dan Devine and Athletic Director "Moose" Krause. In addition, the marching band played the fight song to "inspire the audience." Bufalino suggested that a co-ed picnic would be ideal for Sunday afternoon. The committee then plans to conclude Sunday with a dance on the main concourse of the ACC. Other possible events for freshmen orientation include a small concert between Grace and Flanner Halls Monday night. A concert in front of Howard Hall is also being planned for Tuesday. According to Ewing, these e­vents are "not definite, but very tentative." Additional events for the spring will include Carney 77, possibly on September 9, and Acitivites Nights on September 12 and 13. Bufalino stated that the events for freshmen orientation are dif­
ficult to plan. "We don't receive much input from the freshmen," 
&W~~MW,"oo~~~d~t;h;a~y~a;re~~~;o:k:~~g~=b:u~t~q:u:~~ill:~:d~;;~;;~~~~=;;;~;~~-~-;;;-~~~~~ii
scheduled events are good or bad. Next year, we shall try several new activities. Not that the old things 
YOU ARE CORDIALLY INVITED 
were bad, but just that we feel there is room for 
cerned about the case and met recently in a symposium sponsor­ed by several minority groups to discuss the situation. Professor Joseph Scott attacked the admis­sions office for not trying to attract more minority students noting that in 1970 two percent of the students were black and today 2.5 percent are black. "Notre Dame does not have a commitment to bring them here," he charged. 
Associate Director of Admissions Daniel Saracino countered that Notre Dame does have that com­mitment and that the admissions office annually visits many high schools that are over SO% black. Saracino admits that his office is not happy with the number of blacks currently enrolled and is constantly searching for more mo­ney for scholarships and qualified applicants. 
Goldrick said they are not happy when they lose an outstanding minority student due to lack of scholarship money. "A person who goes through a university without meeting people of other back­
grounds is not fully educated, '• he said. Saracino said there has been no special pressure on the admissions 
office to admit minority students, although there has been pressure to admit the children of alumni and some athletes. Goldrick said there has never been any pressure on his office to admit anyone. 
Professor Julian Samora accused the University, during the sympo­sium, of institutional racism. He related that he had visited a dean and asked him, on the standards of teaching ability, publications. U­niversity service, community ser­vice, and national service,howmany of his professors were mediocre. The dean admitted that about half were mediocre. "I assume thay are gringoes," Samora queri­ed, and the dean comfirmed this. "Why then can you hire mediocre gringoes and not hire mediocre minorities and women?" Samora asked. Provost Fr. James Burtchaell claims that the minorities and women are not there to be hired. "I would venture to suppose that if affirmative action plans of all the colleges and univerisites in this country were put beside one an­other, and their goals added up, the sum of them would ludicrously exceed the possible supply of women and minorities that would even have the credentials,'' he said in his testimony to the Department of Labor in 1975. Minorities claim that the Univer­sity is not actively recruiting e­
nough qualified women and minor­ities. The administration claims applicants are hard to ,find. 
Saracino notes that numerous visits to minority dominated high schools. Austgen points to the use of the Minority Locator Service run out of Princeton, professors can­vassing the country in search of qualified minority students, and the graduate school's Minority Recruitment Committee. The graduate school also has six schol­arships set aside specifically for minorities. 
The battle at Notre Dame is sure to go on. Samora advocates organ­ized demonstrations to make the administration act. But the out­come of the Bakke case is uncer­
tain, and dangerous grounds for , 
hurry?

.Jawyers to speculate on, according to Charles Turchick, of the National • Lawyers Guild. Whatever its out-: come, it might not have an~ effect on Notre Dame anyway, as Goldrick and Kommers point out. But · whether or not Bakke wins in the i 

can!

r-------..: .
'I I
NEEDLOW-COST 

. I We ca:::~PORTATION? I 
insty-prints 
Contact: 
I 

the wiz of the printingbiz!I Auto Drlveaway Co. 
674-9786 
I ·100 -11 x 17 posters 
I Deposit Required \ 
0 1 $1 0 QQ
Returned at Destination I 
n y .

I --Must be 21.--..1 ; ' 203 N. Main 
.________ 'SoBen~ 289-6977 
r-----------------------------, 
A Racial II 
Panel 
Attitudes -II 
I 

And Forum A I I 
Featuring Representatives of · Student Government 
MECHA CILA 
lnt'l Students 
BCAC 
SLC Thoughts Be tieard 
Sun, May 8, 1917, Library Aud• • 1:00pm L_SJ!On_s_o_re_d_b_y_S_t_u_de_n_t_G_o_v_t and__B_C_A_C 
Supreme Court, the minorities will continue to fight. 
The Black American Law Stu­dents editorialize in the January/­February issue of Midwest Neft, "Brothers and sisters, the time has come when we, as the legal black. vanguard, must not allow the advances of the late sixties and the early seventies to be lost under the rubric of 'reverse discrimination' or in the alternative 'white fright of 
black educational might.' " Scott declared vehemently at ,symposium, "Thex.owe us."  As the  
need posters in a  

I 

Total Notre Dame Concern Let Your 
r *The Observer 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's 
The Observer is published by students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions and letters are the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and letters are encouraged to promote the free expression of varying opinions on campus. 
Box QBusiness Manager Sue Quigley Notre Dame

Advertising Manager Steve Bonomo Production Manager Karen Chiames Ind. 46556 
EDITORIAL BOARD 

Marti Hogan Editor-in-Chief Martha Fanning Managing Editor Bob Brink Asst. Managing Ed. Kathy Mills Executive Editor Maureen Flynn Editorial Editor Barb Breitenstein Exec. News Editor Tom Byrne Campus Editor jean Powley St. Mary's Editor Katie Kerwin News Editor Paul Stevenson Sports Editor Pat Cole Special Projects Ed. David O'Keefe Features Editor 
Copy Editor Barb Langhenry Photo Editor Paul Clevenger 
Tuesday, May 3, 1977 
commentary 

The Bakke Decision and the Legal Profession 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii patrick coIe 
Last year when the California 
Supreme Court decided that the 
University of California at Davis 
· d d' · · · b
pract1ce reverse 1scr1mmatton y
using a special admissions program 
for minorities, a grave mistake was 
made. 
They ignored the purpose of the 
program: to provide equal repre­
· · h 1 d & 
•
sentation m t e earne pro.ess1ons 
such as law and medicine. 
And this purpose is a legitimate one, espcially when exploring the legal system in America, a system of justice that is racially biased. In 
J 
anuary, an ABC documentaryabout the American justice system cited a study conducted in Ohio. The findings showed that if a black man and a white man--both with similar criminal records--go before a white judge, the black man will go to prison 74 percent of the time. 
h. · h 'II
The w 1te convtct, owever, wt go to prison only 49 percent of the time. 
Likewise in the state of Georgia, 70 persons were given the death sentence from 1921-1961. Sixty-
two of them were black. Who will protect minorities from being victims of a system that claims to serve them? Who will see that minorities will receive equal 
· · d h
JUStice un er t e law? It is usually those who feel cheated by reverse discrimination who on Iy criticize the policy without suggesting alternatives. If they
. 
were smcere about coming to grips
· h · h ld
w1t rac1sm, t ey wou stepforward to give service to minor­
.
1ties who are oppressed by the system. But they do, in fact, support the injustice, so don't count on them to make a commit­ment. It is the hope that minorities who 
· h f · 1 
are brought mto t e pro esstona schools can use their skills, and, 
· 1 h · d
most tmportant y, t e1r un er-
d. b h · 1 • 
stan tng a out t e1r peop e s 
d. · 11 · 1 · 
con 1tion to co ect1ve y Improve
· h 11
the1r status quo. T is is a the
· f c J'f · 1
umvers1ty · o a 1 orma speciaadmissions program is asking. And that is not asking much in view of the injustices that inevitably and mysterious y I plague the racial 
· · · · h u s 
mmont1es m t e . . 
Should standards be lowered for minorities to achieve equal repre­sentation? The problem is that the basic standards used, the LSAT 
d h d · 
an t e gra e pomt average, are not completely accurate indicators 
· · d 11 
of success or motivation to o we in law school. And investigation by the New York Public Interest 
Research. Group (NYPIRG) revealed that the Educational Testing Service (ETS) admitted 

.......-.;...-----~------------..:...----Times Magazine of April 3, 1977. 
To everyone who wrote... 
that within a 67-point range, a difference in LSAT scores is meaningless. Furthermore, ETS statistics show a 133-point gapbetween the median LSAT scores of black and white males and that 
there is a direct correlation between LSAT scores and family income. 
Grade point averages can vary from school to school, from appli­cant to applicant, questioning the validity of this statistic as the absolute barometer of success. For two students applying to Stanford 
University Law School, one student's 3.5 in history at Notre Dame may be different that another student's 3.5 in English at UCLA. Both students have taken different courses with different teachers. There are different classroom environments and most 
importantly there are different grading scales used at each insti­tution. 
Significant factors--motivation, a desire to serve others, a compass­ion for clients--receive token con­
sideration in the total picture. There are other quotas besides racial quotas in American univer­sities, es;.!cially the private ones. But there are no demonstrations, 
no protests, no law suits againstthese practices. The reason: they are legitimate quotas. On this 
campus, for example, for the last four years a quota for women has existed of 1,500. Although this denied more places to men in the 
freshmen classes, the priority­coeducation-was legitimate.Likewise, the admissions office here admits students from the 
South, the west coast and the east coast as well as from the Midwest. If there were a surplus of appli­

cants from the Midwest in a given :year, those applicants may be denied admission in favor of having students from other geographical areas. The priority is to have a student body with national repre­sentation which is legitimate. So why cannot alleviating a system of justice that is racially biased be a priority of the Univer­sity of California professional 
schools as well as other colleges and universities across the country? 
The Supreme Court is not God. They do make mistakes. In fact the 
American legal system has por­trayed a tradition of error concern­ing rights and protections of racial minorities: Jim Crow Jaws, the Three-Fifths Compromise, sitting in the back of the bus and a host of 
other bizarre rules that are drama­tized in American history books. 
"'' 

We would Like tO thank all who contributed letters and columns to the editorial page. You have contributed much to the exchange of Ideas and Information in the commanlty. We are sorry that a portion of our mall was never . 
printed. We are unfortunately limited by space and by the rapidity "·ith which new Issues arise and old Issues fade away here. Thank you for taking the time to write never­theless. We hope all our readers will enjoy the summer as much as we Intend to. 
Hut the Bakke decision may be one of the most devastating errors,

for its sets minority educational opportunity back several decades. And suspicion that the Bakke decision might have been a mistake has increased in light of some facts presented about the case by an investigation by the New York Times. According to Robert Lindsey' the Times' Los Angeles correspondent, Alan Paul Bakke was one of 2,665 applicants to the 1973 entering
class at the U.C. Davis Medical 
School. He had several advan­

tages. He had good leters of recommendation, he had a 3.51 grade point average and he had impressive scores on the Medical College Admissions Test (MCAT). However • when he applied, his 
mother-in-law became ill, and it 
became impossible for him to complete his application until Jan. 9 1973
• · When his application file was 

reviewed by admissions counselors he received a rating of 468 points out of a possible 500. A score of470 would have put him on the
"threshold of automatic admis­sion." But by March and April

places in the freshman class at U.C. Davis were running out. According to the article, if Bakke had applied
earlier, his chances would have
been better. Therefore, Bakke, who claimed he was discriminated against, probably was a victim of his own 
circumstances, which raises the 
question whether there was any discrimination at all as charged by the California Supreme Court. 
In his second attempt to be 
re-admitted to U.C. Davis in August 1973, Bakke was inter­viewed by Dr. George Lowrey,
chairman of admissions. Lowrey, commenting on Bakke's interview, said he was "a rather rigidly oriented young man who has a tendency to arrive at conclusions 
based more upon his personal impressions than upon thoughtful processes using available sources
of information." As a result, Bakke was reJ'ected a second time in the 1973
fall of · Donald Reindharr, chief council of the regents, said that even without the special admissions 
program, Bakke would not have
been admitted because the;re were 
other applicants reJ·ectcd with better credentials and with better 
rankings. Nevertheless, Bakke charged the university with racial discrimina­tion, according to the New York 
When this case is heard for the 
second time by the Supreme Court of the U.S. in Oct. 1977, perhaps special admissions will get another chance to live. Hopefully this court will understand that special admissions is set up to eradicate those racial biases in the pro­fessions. 
Hopefully. 
op1• n •

IOn!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
Rights and Recognition 
peter korth 
It is appropriate that the issue of human rights on our campus was raised by the black students during the week before the prestigious human rights conference last week­end at Notre Dame. Still more appropriate was the speedy and supportive response to the grie­vances on the part of our admini­stration. While no one would be so naive as to think that all the problems of racism and discrimina­tion have been solved, it is indeed promising to see the administration following its official policy in a Christian way. 
One does not often hear of discrimination at du Lac, and one seldom sees an official protest in front of the Administration Build­ing. The paucity of external mani­festation does not, however, reflect a reality in which Notre Dame is the best of all possible universities. We are all aware of some inadequacy in our environment, and to see a group step forward as the black students did is inspiring. Their action and the response of the administration will hopefully help to make Notre Dame a better place to be, and lessen the vague aura of hypocrisy that hangs about the golden dome. 
For is it not slightly ironic that the black students should find such problems at a university that is known as a center for human rights? A place of Christian love and concern for all men? The black students are ot alone in finding that there is still a level of equality that has not been achieved at Notre Dame. Consider, for example, the situation of the Gay Community of Notre Dame, a student organiza­tion that has yet to be officially recognized after three years of existence. 
The Gay Community has made some inroads. Through a series of byzantine maneuverings, they have been able to speak in sociology classes, to sponsor a conference under the auspices of Campus Ministry, and even to receive permission to show a film in a campus auditorium. Of course, the doors were locked when they arrived, and no one seemed to have a key. But despite this fact, and the fact that all other requests for campus facilities have been denied, progress has been made. At least the administration is discussing the issues, and while questions of funding and campus facilities must wait for official recognition, the Gay Community can be confident that such questions will some day be raised. 
Why can there be such opti­mism? We need only listen to the words of our administration. Fr. 
Hesburgh describes very well our 
"hope for a very special kind of 
community here where all belong 
equally, where we cherish our 
common humanity whatever our 
individual differences." He also 
speaks out against "blind adhe­
rence to ancient and benighted 
stereotypes," and these stereotyp­
ical notions are perhaps the biggest 
obstacle faced by the gay students. 
It is indeed, as Dean Roemer 
pointed out, a problem that is 
"essentially one of education ... 
Ignorance is the enemy.'' Dean 
Roemer is also sage in suggesting 
that the black students become 
educators as well as students. It is 
precisely to achieve this kind of 
goal that the Gay Community has 
for two years made a speakers 
bureau available to interested 
classes. If the Gay Community 
were recognized, and had access to 
campus facilities, this kind of 
exposure would be available to a 
much larger section of the univer­
sity community. 

The Gay Community could great­ly increase its contribution to the Notre Dame family if many gays on ­campus did not live in a state of exaggerated but not unfounded fear. With no university sanction to support the group, any member of it might fear anything from ostra­cism to expulsion were he or she to reveal his or her sexual orientation. It is ridiculous that such a situation should exist at the University of Notre Dame when members of the National Gay Task Force have been welcomed in the White House. President Carter's support for civil rights for gays is a smart political move, considering that there are from ten to twenty million of them in the United States, but it is more basically a step towards living up to th~ ideals of this country that has been long overdue. 
Who but the administration of Notre Dame is better qualified to show Christian love and under­sta:.ding for the gays that are of its family? I can think of no words more appropriate that those em­ployed by Dean Roemer: "It be­comes intolerable for honest people at a Catholic university to speak out against violations of human rights in far-off places if we are indif­ferent to similar violations here where we live, study and pray." There is a call for the end of the selective application of human rights in the Notre Dame commu­nity. It is a time to congratulate: the black students for their effort and achievement, and to hope that the response of the administration promises better treatment for every minority that dwells in the shadow of the golden dome. 
•.ANO INANSIIIf/?IN6 M&, I 
aJN'TII/IlNT YOU 70 PIJU //NY PfJNC/Ie5, (J(AY? I M&AN, ~ eENCRAl70N 15 KNOIJI{ fi:R ITS CAN/JrR, AMI RJ6HT? 
" 
AS 7HE lJI!J/JIJJJN6 
61...45S! NOUJ, C'MON 14/e'VE
~THIS 
/JifF()Pe! \ 

Tuesday, May 3, 1977 
the observer 
5 

Notre Dame Power 
I've been challenged. And rightly so. Several students, who commented favor­ably on my last column profiling some student characteristics, suggessted that, in the interest of fairness, some consideration also be given to administration. 
hear these students, and others, saying: "We've had a grand pitch about the new financial campaign. It's a worthy goal. But if we proceed to raise money without also raising some basic questions about our principles of operation, we'll end up with a sure-fire formula for disaster." 
I was offered examples (the futility of the SLC; the "Danehy affair"; the handling of graduation; the indignation of rectors over RA selection; and the frustrations of the Faculty Senate) that people see as indicative of a general trend: the misuse of power. There is a strong feeling that all members of the university should be concerned about, and discussing, this crucial question. 
The limitations of space suggest the wisdom of restricting oneself to a few preliminary comments. Hopefully, a brief description of two models of power will provide at least a modest introduction to the discussion. 
The first model is sometimes called The Service Model. Its power structure sets up a relationship of servant/client. It is a pyramid approach with a few at the top making decisions for the many at the bottom, without always consulting, or seeking consent, on those matters which affect the welfare or activities of the whole group. 
In this model, those at the top will quite naturally consider themselves in a position of serving their constituency, but do so according to their personal judgment as to what is best. It is not always easy to be fully aware of the inequality of power operative in such a model; and, if aware, we may not very willingly admit that we wield such power over others. Frequently, those on top may claim others are incapable of decisions, because they do not have all the facts necessary for effective judgment. · The claim to a privileged possession of truth easily leads to an infuriating paternalism distressingly similar to what we all experienced under Richard Nixon, who considered the people like children for whom he alone knew what was best. 
Tho~c on the bottom, frustrated and angry, oftentimes feel that one must either adapt or drop out. They see their powerlessness as inconsistent with the central position of the American creed, which proclaims that persons are, in fact, equal as moral agents, each having the right to determine his own destiny, to make his or her own history. Their cry of anguish frequently leads to protest and the demand to meet their needs; they insist that their freedom and dignity must be based on real, tangible controlover the forces and powers that dominate their lives. 
The second model is The Empowerment Model. It is based on relationships of equality, not dependency. The structure is not that of a pyramid; it is circular. It is a model that seeks to discover. release and direct the gifts of the people. It seeks to empower people, and provide a structure for· the communication of values between persons. The quality of relationships is high, liberation is present, and there is 

What would such a model demand? To be effective, it will take great patience, the willingness to communicate fully with each 
by Fr. Bill Toohey 
other, and, most importantly, a great measure Qf trust. The element of trust is the most troublesome of all. Obviously, those in control take considerable risk in sharing their power, in placing faith in the decency and honesty of the other members of the community or institution. 
It is probably at this point that the second model encounters the most opposi­tion. Quite frankly, adherents of the first model simply don't trust the people. Too often, those of us who are administrators, even with the best of intentions, talk about the people, but do not really trust them; will not delegate authority, allow full participation in policy-making, seek out representative insights of the whole group. But, according to supporters of the second model, without trusting the people, there is no chance for authentic growth according to the principles of freedom and the respect for persons. 
Model two places challenging demands on everyone. Nevertheless, and despite our initial reaction to this outline of the two models, we may sense that we cannot afford the luxury of ignoring the issue. If what I am hearing around the university is accurate, there are many persons deeply concerned about these questions. They slate: "In numerous ways, this has been a great year, filled with moments that make us rejoice. But that doesn't excuse us from some critical unfinished business. We've got to deal with the problem ofpower and control, if we ever expect to transform our rhetoric about 'Notre Dame family' and 'Christian community' into reality." 


Band seniors left at home 
Dear Editor: 
I was stunned by next year's senior class trip announcement showing the dates of the trip to be Oct. 23 to Oct. 30. 
In the questionnaire given to the present junior class to choose a time (fall vs. spring break) and a place for next year's senior class trip, the fall trip was listed "Oct. 23-28." Thus coming back on Friday, permitting the class to attend the ND-Navy home game. Without consulting the class, they extended the trip the extra two days. 
When I asked Tom O'Neill, trip co-ordinator, about the change, he said the extra two days "cost only an extra eleven dollars." Granted, that is enticing, but it must be kept in mind that an extra two days expenses (drinking money!) must be taken into account. 
More importantly, some mem­bers of the ND-SMC senior class will not be allowed to go due to missinR the game. I am referring in particular to the band who voted overwneJmtngly to cut short their break to perform for the university at the game. Upon questioning O'Neill about the game he said, "The Navy game won't be that important anyhow." I was in Cleveland when last year's game (27-21) went down to a last-second end-zone interception so I'll ignore that comment. 
But more importantly, any sen­iors on the trip won't be at the game. Granted, the way the university scheduled the break, they don't care if we're at the game. Nonetheless, you'd think at least the seniors would consider one of their last games in what is so promising a football season, as important. My heart may be in San Francisco, but my fellow band members, and other duty-bound seniors will be in South Bend. 
John M. Rosenberger '78 
Promotion 
withheld 

the atmosphere within which the student body, faculty and admin­istration conduct affairs. In view of this, we would like to bring to your attention an incident which we feel should warrant your involvement. 
Last semester, the head super­visor of the North Dining Hall quit. For the rest of the semester, the assistant supervisor, Howard War­ren, performed the duties of head supervisor. He was never officially promoted, nor was he given a pay raise. He merely did the job in addition to his own job as assistant supervisor. He did this for the last half of the fall semester and the first half of the spring semester. Halfway through this semester, a woman from outside of Food Ser­vice was given the position and salary of head supervisor. 
We feel that this incident is a miscarriage of justice. The man did the job effectively, was highly­recommended by his own super­visors (Mr. David, Mr. Arenson), and was well-aquainted with the job. He should have received the promotion. The title and pay of Head Supervisor should have gone to him; instead, it went to someone from outside the North Dining Hall who is not aware of how the dining hall operates. Now, Mr. Warren has not only his own duties to fulfill, but also has to show the new Head Supervisor how to do the job. 
It has recently come to our . a~ention that it is the policy of the . University to promote from within the department first. Section V, article A of the PoUcy Manual For Hourly Rated Employees states, "Employees are given the oppor­tunity to be promoted. When openings occur, individuals already employed will be considered for promotion. Ability to do the job; physical fitness; past absenteeism and present work performance will be considered when granting prom· otion." 
However, instead of posting notice of the vacancy in the department, an ad was placed in the Sooth Bend TribiiDe on Sunday March 27, 1977, opening the position to the public. This is not in keeping with the PoUcy Manual and furthermore, it departs from the image of the University as an "Equal Opportunity Employer." 
We would kindly appreciate your personal attention in this matter. 
AIMcmteros 
Luis Esparza 
Manuel de Ia Rosa 
Thomas Echaniz 
A thing of beauty ... 

Dear Editor, We are sure that most people on campus have noticed the construe­tion underway of the new extension 
of the Engineering Building. With tractors, dozers and many men working overtime in the attempt to reach a final deadline, it was heart-warming to see that time was being taken to move the three trees that gave such an aesthetic value to the front of the building for so many years. 
Man has a tendency to destroy his surroundings in the name of progress. Spending money for · growth in _the cheapest way possi­ble seems to be one of the more popular trends; I am sure it was an expensive endeavor tying up two cranes, a flatbed and ten men while transplanting the trees. But it is something that somebody deserves praise for because it shows that coexistence with nature, its beauty, and the technological beauty devel­oped in progress is possible if an attempt is made. 
James Cycon Maori MUier 

OfJifliOfl~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~p~ot~.~is~n~ot~m~ad~e~a~m~oc~k~ery~o~f~b~y~~(l~ta~l~ia~n~.~C~h~i~ne~s~e~.~F~r~en~c~h~.~m~.s~h.
.I 0 n
Un
•ff 

0 f DI erenCes 
liiiiii~~iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii jack I. sacco-
Once and for all, let's stop being so prejudiced. against Mr. Tim O'Reiley . .The recent outburst by Eugene Yang proved but one thing ·he doesn't have the confidence in his race to know that it will survive the obstacles of a free society. People who claim racism usually do so out of insecurity. They become overly defensive and take any jab as a major offensive to their well 
being. -As F. Scott Fitz­gerald so eloquently said in Tender Is the Night, "The strongest guard stands at the gateway to nothing ­because the condition of emptiness is too horrible to reveal." 
Just because Mr. O'Reiley thinks the food at Happy Hoose is disgusting and just because the people in China eat rice doesn't mean that he h'\tes Chinese. Per­sonally, I think that the water in Alumni Hall tastes like mud, but that doesn't mean that I hate all the 
J{ice is starchy (as is pasta) and that's true even if Chairman Mao rises from the dead and proclaims it not so. Mentioning Mao or starch is about as racist as mention­ing Jimmy Carter or apple pie. In the melting-pot society ofthe U.S., we all belong to some minority or other, but we all live under one flag. This necessarily involves taking jokes and laughing at our­selves and our pasts,· whether that past is a laundryman or an organ grinder. Only men and women of confidence can laugh at themselves and integrate. The others resort to paranma and name-calling. 
A recent letter called for the uniting of the minorities on cam­pus. This is exactly what the U.S. is based on -the uniting of minorities. We are all minorities. Personally, I'm a member of many minorities -I'm Italian, I'm from the South (in which Catholics are a minority), I have type A blood, etc. 
people who think that everybody Martian, etc.) can and will prove not in their minority is deadset themselves here. Human fear against them. The person who causes prejudices. In the U.S. accuses all others of stereotyping and here at Notre Dame, is, in fact, the ultimate racist. people from all over are When you point a finger at some-assembled and they must strive to one else, you have three of your relinquish their common fears and own fingers pointing back at you. _ realize that we all are basically the 
Gary Makowski wonders how same. America (and N.D.), then, one can review a cuisine of a people cannot ever be stagnant. It is a one knows nothing about. constant experiment in which we First of all, Mr. O'Reiley didn't learn about others and ultimately review the cuisine of "a people." ourselves. He reviewed the food at Happy To lash out with little or House -and how they cook that no thought at an article criticizing a cuisine. The point is that certain restaurant's preparation of you don't have to know anything Chinese food causes nothing but about the people of China to make a separation of what is supposed to personal judgement on the food at be united, and in doing so, mocks Happy Hoose. Likewise, yciu don't the very spirit of the United States have to know a thing about Italy to of America and her people -all of complain about the pizza in the her people. dining hall. A non-rebellious but 
To Mr. Yang, concerned attitude will insure that the "socio-economic fight of ·we will all have the opportunity to the Chinese" is ridiculed by Mr. be educated here. No, not only to O'Reiley's column. Why be such a learn calculus or accounting, but savior to the monetary problems of more importantly to learn about Chinese Americans? Do the each other, to recognize our differ­
·Chinese have it rougher than any ences and appreciate them, and 
other group that ever came here? ultimately to come to the realiza-
No, of course not. Case in point: tion of ourselves. 
At the turn of the century, Italians For the firstfourteen years of my 
were at the bottom of ttie. labor 'life, I lived in an otherwise com­
force, By 1970, Italian-Americans pletely Black neighborhood in Sir­
people on earth who drink water. The list gets more. ridiculous. But enjoyed a higher median income · mingham, Alabama. Those years
Dear Editor: This is an Open Letter To Father Furthermore, I view the pizza in above all, I'm American, and as than the nation as a whole, and had provided me with the greatest and the dining hall as disgusting (it such I carry no chips or prejudices surpassed all other immigrant most advantageous learning exper­
Hesburgh, C.S.C: Dear Sir: · could kill most rats), but that (the word means pre-judgements). groups in that regard. They did it ience of my life, because I not only 
We would like to commend you doesn't mean I hate Italians, I realize that we are all from with a lllfdmum of complaining saw both sides of the tracks, 1Uved on your decision to meet with the because 1 am1Italian, and I know valuable but different cultural and a IDiidmum of hard work. there. And I know that by sharing Black Students. This action shows how real Italian food should be backgrounds, and see it as my duty They proved their worth. ourselves with each other, we your concern for the University and ' prepared. to insure that America, the melting The moral is -that each group enrich ourselve-.s. 
,; .... 
~'. 

.----­
-"' 
Your next child could cost 
$64,000 
-------~--~·-·~-~·-· -. -­
Tuesday, May 3, 1977
the observer

6 
Elderly served 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Raising ~ child, including education at a ~tate supported university, today ~osts a typical middle-income fami­
y $64,000, a new study discloses. A low-income family can raise a irhild a bit cheaper--only $44,000 on 
he average, said Thomas J. Es­penshade, associate professor of ll>conomics at Florida State Univer­sity. 
The cost of raising a child could be even more if the child is the first ofthe family. Espenshade said the eldest child in a family tends to cost roughly twice as much to raise as the second child. The second and third child in a three-child family are about equally expensive, he said. 
for the Population Reference Bur­eau, Inc., of Washington, D.C. 
Using data from the Department of Agriculture and 1977 prices, he found it would cost a typical middle income family $53,605 to raise a child to age 18. Of that amount, 
32.3 percent would go for housing, 
24.3 percent for food, 16.1 percent for transportation, 9.5 percent for clothing, 5.3 percent for medical expenses, 1.5 percent for educa­tion, and 11 percent for all other expenses. 
Added to that is the $2,000 it cost in 1975 for the delivery of a child and the $8,416 the Office of Education says it cost in 1975 to send a child to a state university for four years. 
Education costs, of course, are 

The first child is more expensive continuing to soar and those having because parents may buy a larger :t child now likely will pay much house. They also buy nursery ,110re to educate him in the future. equipment, toys, furniture and The Oakland Financial Group of clothes that are used by succeeding Charlottesville, Va., recently esti­childten. mated the cos_t of four years at a 
Espenshade's findings, released state university in the 1990's would yesterday, are contained in a report be $47.333. 
Saint Mary's grads examine job market 
by Honey McHugh 

The Saint Mary's Career Devel­opment Center will sponsor a meeting for all seniors tomorrow at 
6:30 p.m. in Regina Auditorium. The purpose of this meeting will be to infprm the students of the "many opportunities for jobs after graduation." 
According to CDC intern Joyce Deasy, a Senior Career Manual will be distributed with information on finding a job, writing a resume, and attending an interview. The booklet will also include informa­tion' concerning job recruiters and what they are looking for in today's job market. The job search process will focus on students from all fields and especially liberal arts majors. 
The program itself will feature a discussion of the manual as well as a talk by CDC Director Karen O'Neil. She said her primary objective will be to assure students that there is no need to be worried for there is still plenty of time to decide on a career. 
"I think this meeting will be highly beneficial for the seniors to help them avoid senior panic," states O'Neil. "There are lots of opportunities open to them." 
.. 


r----------~----------------------------,I 
SHARE THE RIDE WITH US ON WEEKENDS, 
I 
HOLIDAYS,
ANYTIME. 
When you want to take a break. why fly? Grey­
hound'll save you more. No lie. So say hello to a 
good buy. Go Greyhound. You can leave when you 
like. Travel comfortably with friendly people. And 
arrive refreshed, and on time. Best of all, you'll 
save a good buck. So next time. say hello to a good 
buy. Go Greyhound. 


I 
I 

_________.,.___________.........~~--....-----.,-----~ 
Church broadens ministry 
[continued from page 2] employment discrimination, eye glass costs and drugs. Church seed money was used to help start a federation of senior citizen clubs in Minneapolis-St. Paul. And Catho­
lic charity officials in Chicago helped organize two action­oriented Great Lakes Senior Citizen Conferences and now env1s1on a national network for aging acti­vists. 
Senior citizens organized by Catholic Charities in the Chicago archdiocese are responsible for helping to obtain tax breaks for the elderly and for arranging discounts at area stores, according to Fr. Roger Coughlin, associate director of Chicago Catholic Charities. 
Working from a base of 240 senior clubs, representing more than half the parishes in the nation's largest Catholic diocese, Coughlin encourages senior coali­tions on local, state and national levels. He describes the role of the Church as helping the elderly to help themselves. 
The National Conference of Catholic Charities (NCCC), meet­ing last fall in Denver, adopted a policy urging "political activity on the part of senior citizens which not only furthers their just claims on society, but also assists them in participation in community 
affairs." 
The NCCC's new Parish Out­reach project is one result of this policy. Parish Outreach views the Catholic parish structure as a logical approach to organization on a neighborhood basis, with estab­lished lines of communication to other parishes in the network. Outreach programs already existed in some dioceses when NCCC's• project was initiated six months ago with a $150,000 grant from the Lilly Endowment. 
The Campaign for Human Devel­opment, the annual national fund­raising drive for projects aimed at eliminating the causes of poverty, gives money to at least 13 different senior citizen action projects. 
Not everyone is so enthusiastic about political organization of the elderly. Some Catholic charities people object on the grounds that there is a danger of politicians manipulating senior citizen groups for their own benefit. 
Education is another means of increasing sensitivity to the needs and problems of the elderly and improving attitudes on aging. Many social service centers offer counseling and sometimes even lectures in this area. At Notre Dame the Department of Psycho­logy offers the following under-Psychology of Aging, Death and Dying, Social Gerontology, Problems in Aging, Life-Span and Personality Development, Special Readings in Aging, and Special Research in aging. 
In recent years, Catholic char­ities leaders have come to view themselves not just as providers of services, but increasingly as advo­cates demanding public policy ~hange in the name of justice. This has become especially clear in the :ase of the elderly. The NCCC :onvention spent much of its time debating public policy statements, including some favoring govern­ment action to help the aged, such as an improved Social Security system, better health care and expansion of subsidized housing efforts. 
The elderly, who have no power­ful lobby groups to champion their cause in the political arena, stand to benefit from Church support of this type. 
Beyond the broad respon~ibil­ities of providing direct services to the elderly, the Church may find an important role as a moral leader, both in speaking out on issues that concern the aged and in setting an example for the rest of society in its attitude toward the elderly, by involving them as an integral part of parish life and bringing them into the mainstream of Church 

.---· 
Tuesday, May 3, 1977 the observer 7_ 
==============·=====·=\Cam pus Briefs====::::::=::=:::::=::========== 
an interest in politics with a high N investigate and evaluate plannin Placement Bureau mora~ purpose." . . ew programs at varying diocesan and
Lawn concert 
Umverstty offictals declu~ed to • parochial levels. Other features will There will be a general meeting 
Tonight at 6 p.m. the Notre reye~l the amount of the gtft. but K of c Officers tnclude chronology, definitions, for seniors who are looking for a job Dame Varsity Band will present an sat~ tt was the largest ever r~cetved documentation, education plann-tomorrow in Room 213 of the informal concert on the lawn be­by tts Law School, founded m 18~9 The Knights of Columbus will ing, plan elements, planner dialo-Administration Building. The tween Washington Hall and the and . the. oldest ?nder Cathohc install new officers tonight at 10 gue and shared responsibility. Placement Bureau will also sponsor Administration building, weather ausptces m the .nation. p.m. The new officers will be a "plan ahead" meeting for junior permitting. T~e benefactiOn co!Des from t~e David Medley as Grand Knight, ltall·an MaSS liberal arts majors Thursday at 4 
The concert will feature a selec­pres~dent of. a St. Lout~ commerctal Renny Springuel as Deputy Grand p.m. in Room 213. Students with 
tion of festive, light classical, and show music. The rain date for the concert will be Thursday, May 6. D.C. meeting The ND-SMC Washington D.C. club will hold an organizational meeting tomorrow at 6:30 p.m. in the LaFortune ballroom. All Notre DameandSt. Mary's students who live in the Washington D.C. vicin­ity are as~ed to attend. Major alumni gift  and mdustrtal re.al es.tate dev.elop-Knight, Gene McCullagh as Chan­ment fir d h f Wh t cellor, Kevin Paulson as Warden,1 1937 alu::u~ of ~0~;eeDame,1 :~i~ Tom Sarikas as Inside Guard, Chris t 'd G d Lhis gift recognizes "the leadership M N ltyc u as 0 u st e uar , ou of Father Hesburgh and Notre Bridges as Recorder, Chris DeDia­· B b'Dame's Law School in establishing na as Treasurer, Kevm a ts as N. k N · L tumoral values as a legitimate con-Ad tvoca e, tc eters as ec rer, cern of professional legal educa-­and Eli Shaheen as Trustee. The tion." installation is open to the public. Shuffling off to Buffalo? The Buffalo Club will sponsor a ing to the size of the articles. baggage truck for those wanting Members of the Buffalo Club will their items shipped. Loading will receive a ten percent discount. take place on Saturday, May 14 Baggage will be unloaded at the  A "D M " . b . eparture ass ts emg offered for St. Mary's and Notre Dame students who will be study­ing in. Rome next year. The Massand a "festa" afterwards is being sponsored by the Rome Program Office. Rev· Edward Krause will offer the Mass in Italian tonight at 7 p.m. in the Regina Hall Chapel. Professors Checca and Berberi of the St. Mary's Modem· Languages Department are supervising lan­guage preparation. All "friends of Italy" and especially former Rome students are invited.  questions, or who wt'sh an t'ndt'vt'du­al appointment, should call 8344. Ceram•·cs sale The Notre Dame Ceramics Club will hold its fourth annual spring sale in the Grand Hall of 0'Shaugh­nessy tomorrow through Friday from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Settle up... The Office of Students' Accounts  
helps law school In a Law Day announcement, University President Fr. Theodore Hesburgh revealed that a major gift from a St. Louis alumnus will enable the establishment of a Center for Law, Government and Human Rights within its Law School. Speaking on campus in the wake of the international conference on human rights, Hesburgh said, "Thomas and Alberta White Cen­ter addressed what will clearly be a major issue in world politics in the last quarter of this century. Despite constant frustration, our tradition of law and our philosophy of government yearn for the attain­ment of human dignity, and it is time that we in higher education deliberately attempt to channel into public service people who combine  from 12 to 6 p.m. and on Sunday, Boulevard Mall Parking Lot' near May 15. Howard Johnson's on Tuesday, At the same time at the book­May 17 from 12 to 6 p.m. store parking lots. For more information, contact Prices for shipping vary accord-Dave at 277-1794 or Bill at 1765. 'Plan tomorrow's Church' A five-day introductory work­New Orleans and the Diocese of shop, "Planning Tomorrow's Kalamazoo, and Rev. John R. Church: People and Process," has Gilbert of Bloomington, Mn., lec­been scheduled by the Center for turer and member of the coordinat­Continuing Education at Notre ing committee of the National Dame for June 20-24. Two authori­Pastoral Planning Conference. ties on pastoral planning will join They will be joined by William P. faculty members of the College of Sexton, associate professor of man­Business Administration to direct agement, and Kenneth W. Milani, studies of diocesan and parochial assistant professor of accountancy. planning experiences. Workshop contents include ex­Visiting speakers at the seminar amination of diocesan and parocial will be Rev. Robert G. Howes, planning experiences through case consultant in pastoral participation studies, and design projects where and planning to the Archdiocese of participants will form teams to  I'm OK, Dr. Thoma'!Pa!fs~ ~!hoQ~ebest-seller I'm OK, You're OK, will visit Notre Dame next Tuesday to participate in a "Transactional Analysis and the Travel Environ­ment" workshop. The workshop is part of a research program con­ducted by the Hayes-Healy Travel Management Program. Panthers lecture Maggie Kuhn, national conven~::r of the Gray Panthers, will lecture in the Notre Dame Memorial Library auditorium today at 4:30 p.m. Best known for her strong and out­spoken positions regarding pro­blems of the elderly, Kuhn will discuss "The Elderly as Advocates for Change in Our Society."  reminds all May graduates that no degree or transcript of credits will be issued to anyone whose account is not settled by graduation. All graduates who are concerned about the status of their accounts should stop by the Office of Students' Accounts, Monday through Friday from 9 a.m. to 11:30 a.ml and from 1:30 p.m. to 4 p.m. J-Board posi~ions Appiications for positions on the University Judicial Board, the Ap­peals Board, and the Board of Traffic and ParkingAppealsfor the 1977-78 academic year are now being accepted. These positions are open to all students. The deadline for submitting an application is 5 p.m. tomorrow, and forms are available in the Student Government offices.  

4 bedrooms furnished apartment, Rare fish for sale, very cheap. Call 
within walking distance of campus. 1631.
Fender Tele 4 sale with fuzz-wattCall William Hill, 232-1724. Sum­Lost: pair of eyeglasses (black wire)
Classified 
and ·mini-amp. quick sale-will 
mer occupancy only. in a soft black leather case near negotiate. Terry 288-3706. OBSERVER TYPISTS (NEW AND
Pangborn and Fisher. Reward 
OLD) IMPORTANT MEETING ' 
Summer rental furnished four bed­offered. Call 3059. 
For sale: 1 parachute; cheap. Call THURSDAY, MAY 5 AT 6pm IN
Ads 

room house. $100.00 a month. 
Chuck 3303. OBSERVER OFFICE, TOP FLOORPhone 277-3604. Lost: an I. D. type bracelet without a LAFORTUNE. HOURS AND
nameplate. Sentimental value. Call 
For Sale: olby cassette deck TRAINING ON THE AGENDA.
For Rent next September. Fur­Dave 3339.
NOTICES wollensak 4766 Retail $450, asking ANY CONFLICTS +PLEASE CALL
nished four bedroom house couple 
$250. Call Jhn 8315. KAREN 4-5448. Need typing? Executary, Inc. 
blocks from Notre Dame. Phone Lost: gold 1976 Pt. Pleasant H.S. 277-3604. ring initial Vaike L. Reward Call
Professional Typing Service. 10 For Sale: Dynaco St 120 stereo "To the two guys coming from the3857.
typists . various typestyles. Term amplifier 120 watts, $1 per watt or Library last Wednesday nite: Papers: 85 cents a page. Resumes: best offer. Call John 8315.
3 excellent houses in fine neigh­Thanks for the ride and for notborhoods. Each ideal for 4-6 Lost: red addidas jogging jacket$2.00 a page. Call 232-0898. 
taking your pants off. Only 20 morestudents. Cost ad jus ted to number during mud bath at Chariot Race. If For Sale; two matching brown and one night stands!".
of students, $225-300 plus utilities. found call Hank 3327. 
white patchwork quilted bedspreads
Grab the Dodo before it gets away. M.A.
Call Mr. Gatto 234-6688. 
and coordinating curtains. Excel­
Lost: pair of glasses in Iight brown 
lent condition. Call 4-5165. Pablo, Sorry I couldn't make it for
Cooper's Summer Storage. Pick up Furnished 3 bedroom house for case· somewhere (?J -Nikckies the cake. Happy Birthday, anyway.
and delivery at dorm. Call Mrs. summer . Includes washer and Library -Call 1208. 
ND Prof selling 72 Olds F85 four XXOO Mitzi.
Cooper at 272-3004. dryer. $150 per month. Call Mrs. 
door, air, power steering, brakes,
Cooper 272-3004. Lost: one, non-pierced, gold, hoop steel radials, cruise controL Very Seniore: Are you heartsick at
Niles auction 802 Fort St. 684-6954 earring. Loop one inch in diameter. 
good condition. Only 45,000 mi. 
having to leave DuLac? Find out
or 684-4671. Auction every Friday. House for rent on 700 block of Eddy. If found, call 806 7. 
$2550, Call 7534 or 234-7953. 
what's going on at your alma mater by ordering a subscription to the
7:30. We buy and sell furniture, St. Call Charlie Moore at 232-7180, 
appliances, antiques, and misc. evenings. Lost: 1 dark brown tri-fold wallet '73 Monte Carlo, emerald green, Observer. Only $10.00 for aitems daily 12:00 pm to 6:00 pm. pakced with very important stuff. 
black vinyl roof, wire wheet covers, semester. Stop by the ObserverTwo furnished apartments 503 W. Call Bill 3991 between 8 and 5. 
bucket seats, immaculate condition. 
office and place your order now.
One ride available to Boston on May Jefferson, So. Bend. Duplex, three 350 4 barrel with dual exhaust, air,
23. Call 1654. rooms each floor. Gas Heat fur­Lost: 1 football and 1 basketball am-fm Stereo tape. $2950 or best To Mike Sylvestro and fellow doubt­nished. 289-6307. or 234-0596. Saturday night near the Rock. 
offer. Call 272-5550 after 5pm. 
ing Thomases: 232-0746. Hours: Sam to Spm. For summer, 3 bedroom furnished 
Accurate, fast typing. Mrs. Donoho Reward. 8406, 8407. 
-PERSONALS Hell has been frozen over for 100 house, walk to campus. $100 per 
days!! Pats on the back are in order. Energy Now -a high protein food month. Call 259-7488 after 5pm. WANTED Virtuosly Yours,
NEEDED 2 tickets for graduatio"n. 
Christy and 01 ivaproduct for those who need more 

Call 287-2702 after 6 p.m.
energy-excellent food for athletes. Riders or baggage wanted to Syra­For information : 233-6581. LOST AND FOUND cuse. Leaving May 7, return to ND Rosemary Hammer: May 15. Call Marty 1204. You better have a Happy Birthday 
2 Room apt. available for graduation To the gentlemen that lost a girl out ---------------Happy Birthday, Brian! on May 5 or we'll get mad and call weekend for family of 4 adults. of their golfcart behind the book­Love, Kevin
NEED RIDE TO KENTUCKY DER­you up at 4 in the morning. But Includes refrigerator and private store at 8 :15 pm Saturday. 1left my BY. LEAVE ANYTIME. HUGH­don't worry, we won't remember it bath. Call Ruth McNaughton 287. glasses in the cart. Please call Mary '14 W4 -t'/4 ~2. anyway. 
FOURTH OF JULY PARTY AT LEO1466. (non smokers). 
Need a ride to Denver, Colorado. HANSEN • MARK BUDD'S SUM­'!'i needs a haircut!! P.S. Do we get MER HOUSE ON ST. VINCENT
Start or advance your career with Missing: Timex quartz watch. Lost Can leave 5-16. Call John 1607. your mouthpiece? 
$TREET, SOUTH BEND. WRITE ' Mike Sharp, M.B.A. Excellent 4-.23 at An Tostal. Reward offered. 
P.O. BOX 737, N.D. 46556 FOR
management, sales, and technical Rtch Myers 7495. Wanted: Small office tpye refrig­ATTENTION BABY DERBY CON­positions locally and nationally. 
erator. 234-4075 or 288-4310. DETAILS. TESTANTS: Trainees or experienced. Call Lost: one pair of glasses in a black 
On Sunday, May 1, I became the Kathy: I'll gladly dance with you
234-9011 or see Mike now. Snelling case. If found please call Herb Wanted: Six tickets to Fiddler on proud uncle of an Sib, 4oz., baby 
Glose 3455. the Roof-Friday May 20. 287-0742. anytime. Just let me be your friend girl. Karen Ursetti had the luckyand Snelling, licensed employment again. Gary. guess worth 55 dollars. Thanks toagency. Chamber of Commerce --------------­
Building, 224 W. Jefferson Blvd., Found: pair 0f glasses. Call at Need ride to Syracuse (May 13 ), or everyone who took a chance. Party South Bend, IN 46601. Audio Visual office 6423. after exams, no bags, will pay. Peter "3E" Sweeney. this weekend. Details to be an­Charlie 1620. Sorry this is a day late, but Happy nounced later. Birthday anyway. If you stayed Uncle John Lohn
Anyone and everyone interested in Sociology: 2nd Annual Sociology 
Wanted: female roommate to share around campus once in awhile we Washington D.C. townhouse this might have been able to wish you Chuck,Club Banquet Thurs., May 5. 7pm. 
Lost: 1 navy blue with yellow trim summer. Call Jennifer at 4-4211. Happy Birthday in person....(just If last weekend was the honeymood,The Roma Restaurant. $4.00 a warm up. Call 8538. Reward. 
kidding Peter, it's been so long I can hardly wait until the wedding.
head. Sign up sheet in Sociology Office. 323 O'Shag. · . Attention: In need of member of since yo1J've gotten any grief, thanks for loving me. 
Lost: a godl key chain with about 9 
ND-lSMC Community to dirve a j.. ):..) Sandy
keys on it and with name charm 
1977 car to Santa Crus California --------------­
"John" attached. Reward offered.
FOR RENT (San Francisco area) arrive on or Andy "Raw" Seniors: leave your mark on Notre
Call 7096. 
before June 3. Call 232-0453. Don't you have hair on your chest? Dame with a graduation issue Apt. forfall in basement. Furnished 
P&C personal. Your last chance to put it
Lost: Minolta camera Grace Lounge 
in print. Observer office 9-S thru3 bedroom, lounge, kitchen, shower, 
Sat. 4-23-77. Please return to Fr. 
Frog, Wednesday.
private entrance. Clean, excellent FOR SALE
Huneke's o'{ice or 306 Grace. John Thanks so much for everything.
neighborhood. Utilities furnished. 
1607.
Call evenings and weekends. For Sale: bookshelf component Study hard so you'll make a good All Senior Domers who are renting a 233-4703. stereo system good condition. Must cabin at "Chalet on the Lake"
paralegal. In order to get a raise Lost: orange wallet in bookstore sell 289-2061. you'll have to take the boss to lunch. please register your names andTuesday. If found, please call 
love, cabin number to 113 Dillion -1586
Summer lease from June 1 to 4-4160. No questions asked.
August 25. Near N.D. -4 bedroom 71 VW Bus. Good condition. For Princess (for special purposes: ...) ' and 5 bedroom furnished houses. 1 details call277-3517.
A gold Timex watch lost near the 5TH FLOOR REGINA NORTH: 
ENGLISH 371 BEGINNINGS IN
bedroom and 3 bedroom furnished 
mud pit Sat. Electric with a brown For aU the unique and memorable
Suzuki: '75 TS185 Enduro, excellent AMERICAN LITERATURE. Aband. Reward!! Please call 3746. condition, best offer over $500, times and for all the "gray hairs". SUMMER TRAVEL COURSE TO Two bedroom house to rent. 
apartments. Call 234-2626. 
1082. Have a great summer and we are THE EAST COAST. MAY 2~ to Lost: Yellow and blue reversible looking forward to seeing you back JUNE 12 . 3 CREDIT HOU..S.
Summer and or school year. 1012 raincoat with hood. Lost Thursday Mothers Day Afghans. Gift cher­for our fall reunion. We'll miss you. 5356.00. SEE MR. SELSOR +
Eddy Street. $120 per month plus utilities-. Call Oddies Harris at 
at Nickies. Please call4-4184 ask for ished forever. Many colors avail­Love, ENGLISH DEPARTMENT SMC. 
Ziggy. 
able. 259. 1304. Moms (4-4325).
237-8563. 
--~­

the observer Tuesday, May 3, 1977 
Irish diamond men grab six strciight 
by ~rank LaGrotta Sports Writer 

The 1977 baseball season is practically over and it appears that the Notre Dame nine will conclude their campaign with a strong finish. 
The Irish have apparently found the right combination of pitching, hitting and fielding as they have registered wins in their last six outings. 
Notre Dame began their winning streak last Tuesday at Ball State with a twin-bill sweep of the Cardinals. Pete Zabroski regis­tered his first win in an Irish uniform as Notre Dame grabbed the first contest, 5-3. Tim Pollack smacked a two-run homer in the seventh inning of the second ­contest to hand the Irish a 7-5 win in the second game ofthe day. Joe Karpowicz tallied the win in the late contest. It was his first victory of the 1977 season. 
The Irish maintained their momentum over the weekend to grab four wins from four Cincinnati schools. Friday, Jim Sholl and Joe Leahy limited the Bearcats of Cincinnati University to one run and only six hits as both hurlers notched complete-game victories. 
Sholl picked up his third win of the season by allowing Cincinnati only five hits and two walks in his seven-inning appearance. Mike Galloway had the key hit in the fourth as he tripled in three runs to lift the Irish to a 5-1 win in the opener. Galloway slammed 
another three-bagger in the second 
tilt but his plate heroics were 
overshadowed by the near-perfect 
pitching performance of Joe Leahy. 
The strong junior entered the contest with an 0-5 record on the season and a 15.6 ERA. He did not allow the Bearcats a hit for six and two-thirds innings, however his no-hitter was shattered by Pat Wathen who singled to center with two out in the seventh. Leahy fanned two batters and threw only 79 pitches in the 5-0 Irish win. 
The Irish relied on late-inning heroics to defeat Xavier last Satur­day, 5-4. Down 4-2 in the final stanza, Notre Dame rallied for a pair of runs in the seventh and one in the eighth to claim the victory. Freshman Craig Zebold clouted a homer in the seventh while Frank Fiascki and Mike Galloway con­nected for back-to-back doubles to knot the score. Fiascki singled in the game winner one inning later on a line drive to center. Tim Handrich picked up the win in relief. 
In the second game of the series, junior southpaw Don Wolfe turned in a 5-3 Notre Dame victory. He struck out nine and did not walk a batter in recording his third win of the year. 

Consistency on the mound was a major factor in Notre Dame's six-game winning skein. 
"Obviously, I'm very pleased pitching and good support in the lineup." with the team's performance," field ... one helps the other." Weather permitting, the Irish Irish baseball mentor, Tom Kelly "We were inexperienced last will attempt to prolong their streak pointed out, "especially against year and early this year," Kelly when they meet Western Michigan the competition we've been facing. continued. "We played a lot of in a Kline Field twin-bill today at 1 We've .started to put things to­young players. Now we're starting p.m. Thursday, the Notre Dame gether now. We've had good to develop an experienced starting nine will be traveling again when 
~nyPace~~mwsffi0~~~ww~sss~~~~~~~ws~0~~~~~~~~~~»m~~»~~m~m*» 
National Football League 

The annual National Football League Player Draft, which has recently survived a myriad of court battles, will be held in New York this morning beginning at 10 a.m. For months, scouts, coaches and general managers have run computer programs and eyed game films trying to determine this year's top college seniors. Today the results will finally be seen. Here is one view of what could transpire on today's first round: 
SEATILE-After turning down several last minute offers for their pick, the Seahawks tab OT Marvin Powell of USC. At 6-5, 275, Powell is just the type of player that Jack Patera wants to build his offensive line around. 
CINCINNATI-The Ben gals have a plethora of running backs so they elect to take Mike Butler, a defensive lineman from Kansas. Butler's 6-5, 260 size should plug a big hole in the Bengal defense. 
NEW YORK JETs-With the fans in this New York audience going berserk, the Jets select the Reisman Trophy winner from Pitts, Tony Dorsett. As the Big Apple's newest star, Dorsett should be earning plenty of money through commercials. 
NEW YORK GIANTs-With the crowd beginning to settle down, the Giants pick another of this draft's larger players, 6-5, 245 Warren Bryant of Kentucky. This offensive tackle should be in the Giant's starting lineup on opening day. 
ATLANTA-The Falcons realize that Tommy Nobis is growing old, so they choose his replacement, Robert Jackson of Texas A&M. The scouts rank this 6-1 225 pounder as the class of the linebacker crop. 
NEW ORLEANS-The up and coming Saints tab the third Trojan of the first round with their pick of defensive lineman Gary Jeter. Jeter is versatile enough to play at either end or tackle and that is what the Saints need. 
CINCINNATI-After earlier using a pick obtained from Buffalo, the Bengals this time use a pick they acquired from the Philadelphia Eagles. This time their choice is Ted Albrect, an offensive lineman from California. 
GREEN BAY-The Packers now continue the trend for linemen as they go for defensive tackle Eddie Edwards of Miami. Edwards has unbelieveable speed in the ~orty yard dash, 4.65 seconds. 
KANSAS CITY-The Chiefs are looking for big men, as is every other club, and they tap defensive tackle Wilson Whitley of Houston. Whitley was the recepient of the Lombardi Trophy last season, emblematic of the nation's outstanding lineman. (This was one of the few awards that Notre Dame's own Ross Browner did not receive.) 
HOUSTON-With hometown boy Whitley already chosen, the Oilers settle for Wilson Faumina of San Jose State. The native Samoan is 6-5, 270 pounds, average size for the best of this year's linemen. 
BUFFALO-The Bills have this pick courtesy of the Detroit Lions and their trade of J. D. Hill. The Bills always need defensive backs and the best this year is Gary Green of Baylor. Green is a bit small at 5-10, 175, but he is tough and that impresses the pro scouts. 
MIAMI-The Dolphins were riddled by injuries in their line backing corps this past season. Don Shula amends that situation by choosing Bob Brudzinski of Ohio State. Brudzinski will have to make the switch from defensive end in college to linebacker in the pros, but the scouts feel he has the speed and agility to make ;t with no problem. 
DALLAS-The Cowboys always s.:tm to surprise people with their early picks, but more often than not these picks become top notch players. This year's surprise is Tim Wilson, a fullback from Maryland. Though he was mainly a blocking back for the Terrapins, Wilson showed that he could tote the ball as well in the post season all-star games. 
CHICAGO-The Bears fill one of their few remaining needs by selecting Mike Cobb, the tight end from Michigan State. Cobb sat out five l!ames this past season because the Spartans recruited him illegally, but ·i1.: scouts saw enough of him to know he is a future star.· 
~EW ENGLAND-Chuck Fairbanks still believes that Big Eight 
·· .tball is the best so he chooses Nolan Cromwell of Kansas. Though Cromwell played quarterback at Kansas, the pros see him as a safety. 
Cromwell's injured knee is said to have healed. 
CLEVELAND-The Browns could use another running back so they select Michigan's Rob Lytle. This native Ohioan should feel right at home playing in Cleveland's Municipal Stadium. 
DENVER-The Broncos are looking for offensive linemen and they decide to choose Steve Schindler of Boston College. The 6-3, 255 guard is one of many solid football products who will be leaving the Boston campus this year. 
ST. LOUIS-The Cardinals are still looking for defensive help and they find it in the person of Oklahoma State's Phil Dokes. Dokes is yet another of this year's top defensive lineman. 
ATLANTA-Via the trade route the Falcons have another first round selection and their player is wide receiver Jim Smith of Michigan. Smith is a fine all-around athlete who returns punts and kick-offs as well as catching passes. 
PITISBURGH-The Steelers main goal of the day was to pry the number two pick in the entire draft away from Seattle. After failing in that respect, the Steelers pick the best athlete remaining: A. J. Duhe of Louisiana State University. Though Duhe overstocks Pittsburgh in the defensive line, he does make room for a possible trade. 
CINCINNATI-The Bengals are finally down to their own pick and they fill another of their needs: tight end. Their man is 6-7, 235 Don Hasselbeck of Colorado. Some of the scouts have questioned the big guy's blocking ability but the Bengals are looking at him as more of a passing target for Ken Anderson. 
LOS ANGELES-Though the Rams are deep in number at the quarterback position, there is not an abundance of quality. To remedy this situation, the Rams pick Vince Ferragamo of Nebraska. Ferragamo is given high ratings as far as ability is concerned, but he is yet to produce. The California sunshine could bring out the best in him. 
SAN DIEGO-The Chargers are looking for blocking and they choose the fourth trojan of the first round, offensive guard Donnie Hickman. Hickman received probably the least press of any of this year's Trojan star~ but he was their steadiest player. This pick, by the way, was switche~ with the Dallas Cowboys' pick because of the ClintLongley transactiOn. 
NEW ENGLAND-The Patriots could use a big defensive lineman, hence they select Maryland's Joe Campbell. The Terrapin publicity department has compared Campbell to former Maryland standout Randy White, now with the Dallas Cowboys. While White is now at LB, Campbell is strictly a DE. 
BALTIMORE-Anyone who saw Terry Bradshaw rip the Colt secondary apart knows that the biggest need here is a defensive back. Raymond Clayborn of Texas is the best player left at this spot. Clayborn also doubles as a punt and kick-off return man. 
MiNNESOTA-The Vikings have no pressing needs so they g~ out on a limb and pick quarterback Steve Pisarkiewicz of Missouri. The notices on this strong-armed passer have only been mixed, but Fran Tarkenton is getting old. 
GREEN BAY-The Packers end the first round with a selection they received from Oakland in the Ted Hendricks deal. Lester Hayes, the 6-2, 205 pound strong safety from Texas A&M, is the final pick. 
Other players who could be selected on the first round are: linebackers Calvin O'Neal, Kurt Allerman, Robin Cole; offensive tackles Morris Towns and Tom Lynch; defensive tackles Mike Fultz; and kicker Tom Skladany, among others. 
Notable players who are missing from this list are Mike Wilson and Joel Parrish, offensive linemen from Georgia, and defensive back Eric Harris of Memphis State, all of whom signed with teams in the Canadian Football League. Thf' most notable exception is, of course, Joe Roth of California, 
the star quarterback who ,died tragically of cancer this past ~i~ter. 
they meet Ferris State in a two­game outing. 
This Saturday the Irish will take on the University of Detroit in a two-game series. The series and the 1977 season will conclude on Sunday against Detroit. 
*Observer ­
sports 

Tracksters hold annual banquet 
by Bill Delaney Sports Writer 

Sophomore Dennis Vander­Kraats walked away with three individual honors last evening as the Notre Dame Track Team held their annual Spring Banquet. 
VanderKraats, a distance runner from Toronto, set the three-mile and steeple-chase records this season in earning the Most Valu­able Player Award from Coach Joe Piane and the Irish team. Vander­Kraats was also elected co-captain of both the cross country and track teams to round out the festivities for the talented sophomore. 
In addition to the MVP award, sophomore Joe Strohman was named the Most Improved Runner. 
The North English, Iowa, native has cut 15 seconds from his high school bests this season, with a 
4:11 mile to his credit. Strohman has also a 1:55. clocking in the half-mile to his credit this season. 
Joining VanderKraats as cross country co-captain will be junior Dan Horgan. The Worcester, Mass., native has been a consistent performer for the Irish both in cross country and track for three seasons. Junior Mike Myere, the present co-captain for track, will again return in the same capacity next season, joining VanderKraats for the indoor and outdoor teams. 
Weight advisor Tom Gavin was presented an outstanding service award by the team in recognition of his two-year association with the weight program. Gavin, a gradu­ate of Notre Dame, is also the head track coach at LaSalle High School in South Bend. 
Coach Joe Piane, who acted as moderator of the banquet, was very pleased with the choices through· out the evening. 
"I feel very happy about the award winners this evening, for I think that the team picked the right people for the awards," admitted the Irish mentor. "Dennis and Joe have had outstanding years both for themselves and for the pro­gram, and I feel very confident that they will continue their good work next year." 

