
~------~------:----~­
...... ¥ -•. 
La Fortune renovation to begin next summer 
by Peggy McGuire money" for the remodeling. At completed" by the proposed dead­restaurant would "expand the nazz the physically disable are included
Staff Reporter this point, the exact dollar figure of line next summer. idea," Paczesny statd. in the plans.the contribution is uncertain, but Included on the first floor would 
Joe Gill, executive co-ordinatorextensive renovation of LaFortune Murphy stated it will "probably be The idea is "to make LaFortune be a deli/grocery and kitchen 
Student Ceriter, including the addi­more than $100,000. more of a natural place for students for Student Government, ex­
facilities. A banquet room, avail­
to come to," Paczesny stated. pressed his satisfaction with the
tion of a pub/coffeehouse serving able to groups on a reservation
The present plans stem from a By converting some of the large tentative plans. "From what I've
alcoholic beverages to legal-aged basis, would be located just off the­
proposal which former Student open areas into smaller spaces seen, the plans look terrific," he
customers, a banquet room avail­kitchen.
Body President Mike Gassman which would be more conducive to said. "I think it represents a
able to student groups, and several The second floor would home
presented to Paczesny and Thomas student gatherings, LaFortune recognition of the social space
small shops, should begin some several small shops. A plant store, 
J. Mason, vice president for Busi­problem by the university."
could attract a larger percentage of 
time next summer, according to a tobacco and news shop, and
ness Affairs last spring. The the student body, he added. ''The administration is showing
Bro. Just Paczesny, vice-president check-cashing facilities are some of
Student Government committee that they plan to take action to
for Student Affairs. The plans call for renovation on the tentative ideas, Paczesny re­
submitted their ideas to the Trus­correct this problem, and that's
The announcement came after each floor. Outlined for the ground vealed.
tees' committee last April. Archi­great," he added.
the positive response to tentative floor is an open space set off by a Interspersing desks and chairs
tect Richard Ballene, a Notre Dame 
architectural plans by the Univers­fireplace as well as a pub/restaur­throughout the building should LaFortune, a former science
graduate, drew up the present building, became a student center
ity Board of Trustees' Student plans over the summer. ant. "create a clean, well-lighted place Affairs Committee at their Oct. 21 Two separate entrances to the where students could go," he in 1953. The late Joseph A. meeting. Engineers must now finalize pub would permit the differentia­added. · LaFortune, then member of the 
James E. Murphy, assistant plans and tabulate construction tion between legal and non-legal­Paczesny emphasized that a Associate Board of Lay Trustees vice-president for Public Relations estimates which meet the approval aged customers. Alcoholic bever­major concern is to "make the and vice president of the Warren and Development. said the James of the Board of Trustees and the ages could then be served to Petroleum Company, funded the
center easily accessible by the 
A. LaFortune family has agreed to LaFortune family. Paczesny is students over 21. A stage handicapped students." Installa­conversion of the structure from a provide a ''substantial amount of "hopeful that all plans will be common to both sides of the tion of ramps and hand rails to aid classroom _to a social facility. 

server 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's Vol. XII, No. 44 Tuesday, November 8, 1977 

Famous UFO sightings discussed 
by Marian Ulicny two objects clocked at 7,000 mph on them. by creatures ~ith grayi~h-Staff Re rter above the capital were seen by blue sktn and yellowi~h, ~at-hke " Senior ~ . thousands," McClelland comment-eyes.. They had n.o~tnl shts and I thoroughly beheve that m d "If there would have been a holes m the ear positions. McClel­God's great universe we're not the e · l'k ttitude on the part of these land displayed a reconstructed 
· II' t b · th t war I e a · h ' h d
only mte mgen emgs a ex-ft Pearl Harbor could have been model of sue a creature s e~ ' i~t," Clark C. Mc~lelland, for!ller ~r;airy tale in comparison." created from the Hill's descnp­~Irector of t~e Nattonal I~vestiga-..1 think we were being given a tions. . . . ttons Committee on A.enal Phe-little hint: that they were around, After her exammatton, Mrs. ~~II nomena, to~d an au~Ie~ce that the were observing us, and there was taken into the UF~ capt~m s packed the hbrary auditonum last wa:nothing we could do about it," room and show a three dime~sional night. . . . . he added. map of a star field. The captam told 
Showmg .shdes of UFO sightm~s Contact with unexplained air-her that her galaxy and the sun through time, ~cCiellan~ di~-craft has been reported by world-were located on the map. He al~o cussed the implicatiOns of umd~nti-. d urces according to McCiel-gave her a book made of a plastic tied objects included among ammal ti : s~wo Finnish skiers suffered substance .to use as evidence of her paintings fashioned by Cro-~ag-:e~erlorating physical stamina af-stay on the craft. She recal.Ied that n.on men 40.0<J? years ago. Discs, ter encountering a hovering disc's he took it back aft~r hts crew ctrcles, and cigar-~hap~d .for~s, light rays in a forest. A motorist in members expressed dtspleasure at some with dotted !me~ tndi~at~ng Avignon, France experienced semi-the action. moveme~t and extens~?~s simil~r aralysis when his car was tempor-Accor~ing .to McCiellal_ld, New to .~oardm~ ladders JUSt don t irily immobilized by a hovering Ha~pshtre Atr Fore~ offictals later fit, accord~ng to McClellan~. disc-shaped object carrying two admttted that thetr radar ha? 
He contmu~d by . readmg . a occupants in white coveralls and picked up the craft and followed tt 
deciphered section. of hteroglyphtcs dome-shaped helmets. until it disappeared below the dating from the ~tme ~f Thut!llos The "most astounding case in horizon. Two hours later, the era!! III, 1,500 B.C., m whtch scrt~es UFO history" happened in New was sighted in the same area as tt described ",~ circle of fire .commg Hampshire on Sept, 19, 1961, when left the earth's atmosphe!e. "This in the sky. C~eatures wtth foul Betty and Barney Hill were driving coincided with the e~act t~~e frame breath a~d no ~otces we~e reco.rded along State Road 3 through the that the Hils. descnbed, McClel· as SJ?ea~!n~ wtth the kmg, dtsap-White Mountains area, McClelland land emp~astzed. . pean~g ~tth !~e sound. of thunder stated. The couple reported notic-Mrs. Hill drew a reJ?hca of ~he and hghtmng. There ts no o~er ing a bright light in the sky, and star map under hypnosts, sho~ng explanation ~an tha~ of an ahen-Hill got out of the car to investi-a series of stars on "exploration landed craft, accordtng to MCiel-gate. He became frightened when routes" and a double ~tar.. system, 
land. . the object flew over the car, and he supposedly the craft s hom~ 
During WWII, many ptlots .re-could see creatures inside the base." After. computer analysts, ported. large ~iscs or globes flymg aircraft. He jumped back into the the double star system was later alongstde thetr planes, ~cCielland car and continued driving along the identified as the Zeta.1 and Zeta 2 
stated. Most were explamed by the intended route home, until he • 'felt Reticular located 37 hght years of governmen~ ~s a ~evelopment of coll_lpelled to take a right turn onto 220 trillion miles .fro~ earth. . German aviation. However, con-a side road " McClelland ex-"The strange thmg ts that, until sider the fact.that there. was a war plained. Further along on the road, 1971, we didn't know that the Zeta in progress wtth worldwtde ~ropor-the couple's car was forced to a halt Reticular was a double star ~rs­tions. If the e~rth was ~~ the by creatures blocking the road. tern," McClelland remarked. ~ situation of potential des~ction,m By thought transferrance, the addition, . three stars Be~ ~tll wouldn't thts draw attention from creatures told the Hills to get out included in her map weren t dts­all parts of the gala~y?" he asked. of the car and accompany them to a covered by astronomers u.ntil1973: 
McClelland descnbed numerous landed spacecraft They assured Remember, she had thts expert­UFO sightings of the 1940's and the cou le that th~y would not be ence 12 years earlier." ~9~0's, i~cluding. a July 19, 1952 harmel At this point, the. Hills "The surveill~nce of the pla!let mctdent m Washmgton, D.C. At remembered nothing else of their Earth is an ongomg anthropological 11:~0 p.m.•. radar operators at the experience, McClelland stated. experience," McCie.Iand asserted. Nattonal ~trpo~ ptcked up no1_1-After an unexplained period of "We're very small m our galaxy. commerctal atrcr~fts. on thetr mental depression, the couple visit-Conclusion? The great creator of screens. The stghtin~s were ed Dr. Benjamin Simon, a Boston the living universe w~ call god has confirmed by Anders Atr Force psychiatrist, in 1963, fearing marl-many harbo~s. Earth ts only one of base radar operators. When the tal problems. Through regressive the many m the vast oceans of airport radar staff requ~s.ted t~at hypnosis, Simon prompted the space." . figh~er plane~ be mobtl~ed tm-Hills to relate their two-hour exper-McClelland is presently an mvest­medtately, A~r Force offictals r~-ience on the alien spacecraft. igator for the Center for . UFO sponded that Jet~ would be flo~n tn Their taped sessisons with Simon Studies at Northwestern Umvers­as soon as posstbl~ from Mam~. were later incorporated into a book, ity. He has studied UFO reports Anders landing s~ps were bemg The Interrupted Joamey. for 29 years. His presentation ~as resurfaced at the tim~.. . Both Hill and his wife described sponsored by the Student Umon 
"Can you accept thts? F-94 Jets physical examinations conducted Academic Commission. 
arrived two and a half hours after 

Clark C. McClelland lectured to an overflow Li~rary Auditorium crowd last night about some of the ':"ore mfamous UFOP sightings of recent years. [Photo by juhe Palafox.] 
SMC Student Assemblyconsiders parh:ttal ch_ang.es 
by Marla Frlgyesl the Student Affairs Commtsston for 
St. Mary's Student Assembly discussed the major points of the parietals proposed at last night's -meeting in Regina Hall basement. 
The proposal, as submitted to the assembly was read by Mary Rukavina, Student Body President. It calls for an extension of weekend parietals from 12 to 2 a.m. Saf~ty and convenience factors resulting from the parietals extension were discussed. 
The 2 a.m. time extension coin­
cides with the present shuttle 
schedule, Notre Dame parietals, 
and the St. Mary's hour policy. 
Student safety was stressed as the main advantage of the parietals extension. Members pointed out the advantage of encourageing students to stay on campus. As a result, more informal social func­tions may take place on the campus. 
The assembly unanimously ac­cepted the parietals proposal with the recommendaton to stress the positive aspects and to make amendments in the wording. 
The proposal will be presentedto discussion and approval. the final approval will be made by the Student Affairs Council, chaired by Dr. John Duggan, College Presi­dent, who has the final vote. A target date for the proposal of second semester is eJpected. 
The Assembly also deliberated on the allocation of funds to student clubs. The International Student Association was refused a request for $300 due to a lack of a complete outline of their objectives and goals. They wer.e allocat~d $SO to organize a soc,tal function ~nd suggestions were made to provtde educational programs for St. Mary's students on such topics as life in foreign countries. 
The Psychology Club's request 
for $125 was granted. Maria 
Brown, president of the club, 
outlined the objectives, past activi­
ties and fund-raising plans for the 
year. A request for $25 by the 
Psychology honor society was re­
fused on the grounds that it sets a 
precedent for other bono~ societi~, 
The meeting closed with a re­minder of the Cicely Tyson appear­ance in O'Laughlin Auditorium 
,tot;J.ight at 7:30. 
--------~---__,....... 
Tuesday, November 8, 1977
the observer 

,..On Campus Today-~ 
1:15pm 
3 pm 
4 pm 
4:30pm 
4:30pm 
6 pm 
6:30pm 7 pm 7 pm 
7pm 7,9,11 pm 
7:15 pm 
7:30pm 
7:30pm 7:30pm 9-11 pm 

social science mtm-course, "introduction to ques­tionaire development," bonnie katz, sponsored by social science training and research lab, mem. lib., rm. 509. 
career workshop, "gathering and evaluating infor­mation to make successful decisions," karen o'neil, student affairs conf. rm., smc. 
colloquium, "an experimental model of depression neurosis," d. chris anderson, ph.d., sponsored by psych. dept., 117 hagar, open to public. 
seminar, "adventures of a microbiologist in indus­try," sponsored by biology dept., galvin life science aud., open to public. 
ledure series, "metaphor & knowledge," nd prof. ernest sandeen, sponsored by english dept., lib. aud., open to public. 
tutoring workshop, neighborhood study program, lib. aud. 
film, "leo tolstoy, novelist and religious thinker," howard hall, free. 
meeting, bicycle club, attendance mandatory for those going camping, basement of Iafortune. 
meeting, sociology club for majors and prospective majors, advisors will be present, 104 o'shag. 
career workshop, "job search," mary Iaverty & suzanne howard, mccandless. 
film, "the graduate," sponsored by student union, eng. aud., 11. 
liturgy, "liturgy of eucharist: introduction & eucharist prayer," carroll hall, smc, registration at door. 
film, "styles in japanese architecture," int'l students lounge, basement of Iafortune, sponsored by dept. of modern language, free. 
eucharist, charismatic eucharist, log cabin chapel, open to all. 
show "an evening with cicely tyson," sponsored by smc student government, o'laughlin, $1 at door. 
open stage, nazz, sign up before 9 pm in Iafortune basement. 

Weather 
This afternoon should be partly sunny with highs in the mid 60's. Increasing cloudiness tonight with lows in the mid SO's. Showers and thunderstorms likely tomorrow with highs in the low 60s. 

Supervisory program begins 
The 26th annual Supervisory Development Program of the Col­lege of Business Administration opens today. Fifteen weekly sessions, scheduled for 7 to 9 p.m. Tuesdays in the Center for Con­tinuing Education, will be directed by Dr. Salvatore J. Bella, the Jesse Jones Professor of Management at Notre Dame. 
The program is designed for· current foremen and supervisors,. newly appointed supervisors, per-! sons being considered for promo-1 tion, office and administrative per-~ sonnel, and owners and managers of small businesses. It is intende~i to develop skills for effective! 
supervision, to creat awareness of cases will be given to each partici­
the human element in the work 
pant.situation, to promote healthy Diplomas certifying graduation
organizational relationships, to achieve an understanding of the forces affecting the supervisor's job and to sharpen the supervisor's sense of responsibility toward his superiors, his fellow supervisors and his subordinates. 
The course will utilize audio­visual aids, including slides, films, and video tape. There will be case analysis and role-playing by mem­bers of the class, with instructors serving as moderators to guide discussions for maximum learning. Class notes, reading material and 
TONITE:9-llpm 
OPEN STAGE RETURNS 
COMING TOMORROW NITE WEDNESDAY 
"JAZZ IN THE NAZZ" The Notre Dame Jazz Band 
'-' . .,., ., -. 




Tutorial service discussed 
by Chris Simony 

Establishment of a foundation 
for tutorial services was the pri­
mary topic of the St. Mary's 
Student Academic Council (SAC) 
Sunday. 

Student representatives reported on the initial responses they received from their departments. Sentiments about the tutorial ser­vice ranged from a desire for further clarification of the pro­gram's format to an unfavorable attitude attributable to the large number of departments already offering some form of academic assistance to their students. 
Student Vice President of Aca­demic Affairs Cathy Hedges con­duded that the council has "initi­ated a good idea, but (has not) developed it fully." The tutorial service will be subject to further discussion at a future meeting. 
In conjunction with the tutorial service, Gail Mandel, assistant to the vice-president of academic affairs, mentioned that Ann Loux (presently the coordinator for the Writing Clinic) has agreed to coordinate a learning skills center, possible to open next fall, and serve as a locus for the academic departments. 
The format for an Alumnae Speaker Series was also consi­dered. A discussion, instead of a lecture format, was decided upon. Visiting alumnae will speak on personal job experiences, as well as any additional topics of interest to students. 
The possibility of the Speaker Series working in conjunction with the Career Development Center's National Women's Week was thrown out to the Committee. No conclusion was reached, however, and the subject will be re-opened at the next meeting. 
Senior Comprehensive Enms were briefly discussed. "It seems incongruous,'' noted Hedges, "that some students receive credit for comps, while others do not." She reported that the Curricular Committee is in the process of reviewing the entire college curri­cula arid that department chairmen will be urged to re-examine, as well as possibly update, the comprehen­sive exams. 

Tyson to visit St. Mary's 
by Jean Powley St. Mary's Editor 
Cicely Tyson, renowned as the most prominent black actress of our time, will appear at St. Mary's O'Laughlin Auditorium tonight at 
7:30. Sponsored by St. Mary's Student Government, she will pre­sent two hours of dramatic read­ings and discussion. 
Star of Sounder, Roots ·and The Autobiography of Miss Jane Pitt­man, Tyson combines readings and commentary in her appearances, during which she use no props, makeup or costumes. 
A native of Harlem, she has risen from welfare to stardom. Her talent is such that she has been .able to pick and choose roles. Only those roles which will not compro­mise her integrity as an actress or her pride as a black woman are accepted, Tyson claims. 
Sounder won her an Academy Award nomination. The television drama, The Autobiography of Miss Jane Pittman, which traced the life of a slave from youth to the age of 110, was hailed by critics nation­wide. 

·~, : ................. ,. ·-~ 
~Z\::r,.,.t.,....,.,.. ,......, <.. ..-..-•~r;:w ·,-rr ·r \1'·l'Y.!·····,:·.·v t ,:·,:·,·-r' ,..,.· ~~'t,'tJ" ·:-.--,,~"): r,' · t~<~.-•: ,·'··~t 'i:-~· .•:-• ~" • ~-... -.. o-'-.·. • .•.'")·'!<';ft.·• ••· .-: .t·.t~":'r .'.,-...:t,""t:~,f,.t1i' .i' •, 
,. '. ··-...,yop..,....-r.r.'~"l\i,.r'.'OKI..~...., T 0.,'1r.....4of<'A..,.~,.•r#';,.~.·l,o,,.,,_.'# ••'' ~-o •' 0"--·•• •o••• 0 ' •• -_ 
will be awarded to all participants of the course at a graduation dinner, attended by executives of participating companies. More than 1,800 men and women from 370 companies have received certi­ficates since the program was organized. 
Katz to direct minicourse 
A minicourse, "Introduction to Questionnaire Development,'' taught by Bonnie Katz, will be held today from 1:15-2:15 p.m. in Memorial Library Room 509. 
The objective of the course is to introduce the basic considerations involved in questionnaire develop­ment and to provide insights into the total survey research process. 
The Observer Is published Mon­day through Fr1day except during exam and vaatlon periods. TIJe Observer Is published by the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purdlased for 520 per year C$1 0 per semester) from The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, lndlalta 46556. Second ctau postage paid, Notre Dame, Indiana, 46556. . The Obaerver Is a member of the Associated Press. All repro­duction rights ara reserved. 

\' 
. ....•: . ............ J~ 
Rex Reed termed it , ''A fantas­tic experience not only the best film about black pride I have ever seen, but one of the best films on human dignity ever made." 
As for Tyson's performance, Reed called it, "one of the most brilliant .. .I have ever seen by a woman of any color, any age, any season." 
This performance is fantastic for the Sf. Mary's community because it represents the begin­Qing of the student body taking an active part in bringing renowned lecturers and performers into our community to enhance the intel­lectual and social climate on cam­pus," SMC Student Body Presi­dent Mary Rukavina commented. 
Tyson will soon appear in "The Story of Mrs. Martin Luther King." 


Meeting for SLF 
There will be a meeting W ednes­day at 7 p.m. in the LaFortune Ballroom for all sophomores inter­ested om working on this year's Sophomore Literary Festival. 
For more information contact Theresa Rebeck at 6908. 
Hedges also urged SAC Repre­sentatives tore-publicize the Foun­der's Day Essay Contest, because of an insignificant student body response. "It is not an extensive research project, and students can obtain rules and information from their department chairman,'' she said. A plaque as well at SSO will be awarded. The deadline is Nov. 23. 
Maria Mignanelli presented a tentative proposal involving a his­tory department-sponsored grant for a summer study-travel pro­gram. 
Two students who have taken either "French in North America" or "American Colonialism," would be selected to travel to Canada or the East Coast States for a period of several weeks. The council expres­sed enthusiasm and will discuss the proposal at their Nov. 20 meeting. 
*The Observer 
Night Editor: Bob Brink Asst. Night Editor: Tracy Her­man Layout Staff: Jim Veraldi Feature Layout: Dave O'Keefe Joe Camarda Sports layout: Greg Solman, Frank LaGrotta Typists: Gwen Coleman, Sue Scribner, Mary Jo Cushing, Lisa DiValerio Night Controller: Mike Bodle Day Editor: Kathy Connelly Copy Reader: Joan F rem ear Ad Layout: Krazy Kate's Roommate Photographer: Julie Palafox 
need resumes in a hurry? 


\~:·~ ~.. · ' 
@W~ 
•nsly·pr•nls• 
the wiz of the printin& biz! 
rag bond 2 5 · 81/2 X 1 1 $2.55 203 N. Matn SoBend 289-697 

The Religious and Academic Commissions 
o.f Howard HaU present a 1 hour .film ·on 



Leo Tolstoy 
novelist-rel~ious thinker 

Today Nov. 8 Howard Hall 
6:30 pm free 


CPRO(jR~ryJ 
~  St. maRYs Colleqe  
•nt=oRmatJon  
1 \'  applications  

\,U caRROll hall maoet€Va BUJlOmq ~weOnesOay 9 nov. t977 7:oopm 
-Rinarily a Sophormre Rugram .D1iDrs rmst have pemission of department dlaimwn 



Tuesday, November 8, 1977 
3
the observer 

Four arrested at Corby's 
by Bob V uettonl Senior Staff Reporter 

Uniformed police arrested four people, including at least one St. Mary's and one Notre Dame stu­dent, during a raid at Corby's tavern last Thursday night, accord­ing to Tony Zappala, Corby's manager. In another raid last Tuesday, no arrests were made. 
Donald Foy, uniform division chief, said the four will appear in Superior court on Thursday to face charges stemming from underage drinking. 
Foy said he had no intention of dropping the charges. However, he added, "I can't speak for the prosecuting attorney." 
Patty Gibbons, a 21 year old Notre Dame student, witnessed one ofthe student arrests. Gibbons said police handcuffed one student, who was then taken to the police station in a police car and finger­printed. Police took mug shots, she 
added,  and  later  released  the  
student  after  a  $50  bond  was  
posted.  

"There was absolutely nothing unusual about these arrests," Foy explained. ''Students were warned when school started that we would be making periodic checks of local bars." Foy added that these per­iodic checks will continue. 
After the raid on Corby's Tues­day night, police officers cited the tavern's management for drinking code violations, according to Zap­pala. Zappala called the citation "incredible" since police made no arrests during that particular raid. 
SMC to receive 'Yellow Pages' 
St. Mary's students can now let their fingers do the walking, whe­ther seeking help with anxiety or getting a refund from a broken washing machine. SMC Division of Student Affairs, will be distributing copies of "The Yellow Pages," an alphabetical student services direc­tory, to all dorms this week. One fifteen-page edition will be given to each room. 
"It answers some of the most common questions students ask," commented Mary Laverty, director of Student Activities. "It's all about St. Mary's, and contains an introduction from the dean, a directory, emergency procedures, counseling services, and liturgical­religious opportunities." 
Off-campus students may pick up their copy of "The Yellow Pages" and phone directories this week in the Student Activites office. Smoker planned for Gov't majors 
There will be a smoker for Government majors and faculty tomorrow night at 8:30 at the 
Knights of Columbus hall. All Government students are welcome. 
Corby's received-a second cita­tion after the arrests on Thursday, Zappala said. He noted that if enough citations accumulate before Feb., when Corby's liquor liscence is scheduled for renewal, the tavern would have to close down. 
Although he said Corby's is in no immediate danger of closing, Zap­pala claimed he is "helpless" in preventing these citations. "They can probably make one arrest any time," he said, "and that's all it takes." 
Zappala said it is "not economic­cally feasible" to hire people to card at the doors during some hours. Even if it were, he said it would be hard to catch all the people who use fake IDs. Three of the four people. arrested on Thurs­day had legal, unexpired IDs, alleging them to be over 21, he noted. 
"It's been bad for business," Zappala said. "No other bars have been getting raided around here like Corby's. There out to get Corby's." 
Foy denied that the raids have been concentrated in any area or on any bar. Foy said police made other arrests for drinking code violations on Tuesday and Thurs­day nights. He pointed out one arrest made on Ironwood Ave., saying you can't get any further away from campus than that." 
Still, Zappala claimed he heard one vice squad officer talking to a girl with a fake ID on Tuesday night. The officer reportedly aske asked the girl to cooperate, saying "I don't want to bust you. l just want to bust this bar." 
Zappala also objected to the way the police conducted the raids. He said that during the raids one police officer stationed himself at every door. The officers didn't let anyone out of the bar without a proper ID, but they also did not let anyone into the bar, even with an ID. 
Zappala said this hurt his busi­
ness. Police officers explained to 
him that this was normal procedu,re 
to prevent people from the outside 
from "running" ID's into the ,building. 

Students asked to donate blood 
Residents of Cavanaugh and Farley halls are reminded to give blood today, tomorrow and Thurs­day. 
Students in Lewis and Morrissey halls are asked to sign up to give blood next Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday. For further informa­tion check with your section leaders this week. 

KEN~S DEN 
--HAIR STYLING -­MEN & WOMEN ACROSS FROM 100 CENTER 
(LINCOLNWAY WEST IN MISHAWAKA) . PHONE 255-6500 appointments preferred 
.,.jX~IoCCO=<=-c:X:K:IoCOCoi=-c=-c:xM:IoCO~=-cDC:M:::ICIICIOI::H= 


JUGGLER 
Notre Dame's journal of the arts Now accepting for publication: 
poetry, fiction, drama, art, photography ••. 
Submit material to English office, 309 O'Shag 
extended deadline 'November g 
WINTERIZE NOW SNOW TIRE SALE 
MIKE'S MAPLE LANE AMOCO 272-3487 COOLING SYSTEM FLUSH SPECIAL BATTERY TESTED FREE 
24 HOUR TOWING AND ROAD SERVICE 272-6961 CLOSEST TO CAMPUS 

ACROSS FROM LINEBACKER INN 
AT ST. RD. 23 AND EDISON RD. 
0'LAUGHLIN AUD. 



SLOO 
.. 


~------:r-~;--!1"""~.--:-.~-----.;---------,-----:--------~~~-~ 
.. 

Courses dealing with Social Justice 
\ 

The study of social justice issues at Notre Dame and ' Saint Mary's is scattered throughout various depart­ments at both schools. There is no question to the fact that numerous courses exploring social issues are available, however, because of their diverse and interdisiplinary natures, they are often overlooked. The Notre Dame-St. Mary's World Hunger Coalition has attempted to organize these courses and their descriptions: 
At Notre Dame 
HISTORY 
History 483-U.S. Urban History-Dolan-11 MWF 
Introduction to the study of the city in the U.S. Coverage of themes such as the social and economic structures of cities, education, the family, and the church. 
SOCIOLOGY AND ANTHROPOLOGY 
Soc. 217 -Poverty in America -Lamanna -9TT11 
A description of the poor with emphasis on causes and consequences of poverty and society's re51J0nse to these problems. _ 
Soc. 417-City Planning Urban-Lamanna-2 MWF 
Introduction to urban society with a historical demographical, and ecological analysis of the origins : nature and problems of urban community. 
PHILOSOPHY 
Phil 276 -Political Philosophy -MacCarthy -1TTl 
Discusses the traditional, liberal and socialist approaches to political theory. Treats topics such as freedom, democracy, equality, justice and the nature of the state. 
. 

Phil 277 ·Philosophy of Law-Foley-11MWF 
This course will concern itself with the nature of legal systems and their proper aims and limits and the criteria for a just system. For example, the relationship between law, morality, and systems of etiquette will be explored. 
DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMICS 
Econ 316/Phil 316 -Education for justice -O'Leary/ Burrell -10TT12 
The "place" of justice in political economy, especially in the light of rival principles of contribution, effort, need. Its relation to notions of community state equality, efficiency, profit, externalities. ' ' 
GOVERNMENT AND INTERNATIONAL STUDIES 
Govt 341 • International Relations· Schmidt-10TT12 Donty-1TT3 
Lecture course with discussions of assigned readings and, if appropriate, of contemporary develop­ments in international relat!ons. The requirements include a midterm and final examination, and two brief papers on some current problem in inernationa politics. 
Govt 428 • International Organization -Schmidt -1 Th4 
Prerequisite: Govt 341 ( International Relations) Background to the history of the organizations (the UN the Specialized Agencies, and non-governmental organizations), and discussion of the theories and concepts of those organizations. · 
· Govt 433/PNV 448/Theo 437 -Politics and Theory of Liberation • Pomerleau/ Yoder-4TT6 
· Examination of the roles of the Third World Churches in relationship to dependence and liberation 
. in latin America.

.•. '{_.. ,....~ "·'·J·"'·4·....·. .~ ~.._..~"'.···''-'\. 
Govt 451 -Politics of Tropical Africa -Walshe -2TT4 
An introduction to traditional political.inst1funons the colonial inheritance and rise of African colonialism. Concentration on political organizations, ideologies and government institutions within the newly independent countries of tropical Africa. 
Govt 455/Econ 404N -Economic Development-Walshe 9TT11 
After drawing on economic and political history to clarify the present predicament of Third World countries, the course focuses on major issues in the interaction of economics and politics in the process of development. Prerequisite: Economics 225 or permis­sion. 
THEOLOGY 

Theo 340 -Moral Responsibility: The Corporate Conscience -Mertensotto -2TT4 For Business Majors Only 
Analysis of the impact of personalism upon current theological ethics in the discussion of conscience ·value, and situation, with an application to selected ,Personal moral issues. 
Theo 341 -Ethics & Social Policy -Hauerwas -9TT11 
This course is designed to demonstrate the close interrelation between political theory and social policy. In particular we will critically analyze the alternatives for social policy correlative of the liberal political theory dominant in our society. 
Theo 349/PNV 349 -Food, Population and Energy ­O'Leary-2TT4 
Course examines "structural violence" in the use and distribution of food and energy in relation to population growth. From the standpoints of the biological and social sciences the current world situation is assessed and then reflected upon theologi­cally and philosophically. 
Theo 373 -Theology & Community Service ­McNeill/Whitehead-3Tu6 
Aim: To e~plore questions about the relationship of theology and community service in contemporary society in the context of a search for insight and understanding into personal experiences while visiting older adults. 
Theo. 376A-The Church & Social Action-McNeill 
Aim of this one-credit hour course (Urban Plunge) i to learn about social action involvement of the Church (with .others) in problems of injustice, poverty, etc. (Registration for the course was closed on Wednesday, October 5) 
Theo 378/Econ 428/ Govt 377 -The Unseen City ­McNeiii/Roos/Schwartz -2TT4 
Development of a critical understanding of relation­ships in cities and analysis of the value and justice dimensions to respond to problems of the "unseen" city. 
Theo 380/Mgt 492 -Modern Decision Making in the Christian Tradition -Houck -9MWF, 10MWF 
The purpose of this course is to increase under­standing of the Christian faith and the way it informs thought and action in a life setting. Examination ot actual stories of leading people in the business world, to see how (or if) they are integrating the two worlds of business and Christianity. Case studies that focus on issues likely to confront a modern business person. 
Theo 385/BLST 385 -Black Theology and •Catholk Social Thought-Braxton -9TT11 
A study of the relationship between 'experiential' and 'abstract' theology. Comparison with Vatican II and Social Encyclicals. · 
.This .list was compiled by tire ND-SMC World Hunger Coalition · 
·~..·•• ·......:· ~":, .. ,,·.. · -~. ··,. '•.!• ... 

At St. Mary's 
BIOLOGY 
Bio 104.-Biology and Human Values -Stewart/Foster 9MWF, 12MWF 
Examination of man's relationship to nature and society, with focus of class on food, its distribut6ion and production and the effects of hunger. · 
BUSINESS AND ECONOMICS 
BUEC 146 -Business and Society -Horning -10MWF Soc 305 
A systematic analysis and evaluation of the cultural and social factors which shape the role of business in our society. Materials drawn form other societies are used as a basis for comparison. 
BUEC 355 -Contemporary Economic Issues -Borrengasser -1 MWF 
Investigation of current economic issues such as poverty, medical care, consumer protection, energy, 
tax  proposals,  crime,  higher  education,  and  some  
present  and  proposed  policies  to  combat  these  
problems.  
ENGLISH  

ENLT 380-Literature of Justice in the Third World • Stewart -6M9 
Introduction of sociology and literature of Third World, literature of primitive justice and integrity and the violation of justice. ' 
GOVERNMPJT 
Govt 304-Latin American Government -jenks-1TT3 
The class will attempt to focus on what problems exist in Latin American government, with concentration 1 on the public policies of these governments. ' 
I 

HISTORY 
HIST 351-The ABC States and Mexico-Cassidy 2TT4 Focuses on culture, socio-economic and political issues and international relations in the framework of histo.rical evolution in Argentian, Brazil, Chile and Mex1co. 
PHILOSOPHY 
Phil 243-Conceptions of justice-Sterba-10TT12 
Discussion of three major theories of social and political justice? Marxism, Libertarianism, and Social Contract Theory. Aim of course is to provide a critical comparison of the conception of justice. 
RELIGIOUS STUDIES 
RLST 331 -Contemporary Moral Issues-Krause-1TT3 
A survey of current social ethical problems from a Christian perspective. Sexual responsibility, the eco­nomy and maldistribution of wealth, the racial problem, revolutionary change and democratic process will be among the issues treated. 
RLST 351 -Religion and Service Careers-jancowski ­2M and 10Tu12 
Introduction to the ideas and skills which enable students to understand and perform their service as Christian ministry. 
RLST 351 -Thomas Merton -Malits -9TT11 
A critical appraisal of the famous convert-monk Merton as contemporary Catholic, comtemplative monk in touch with different mystical traditions, noted literary figure and outspoken critic of American social and political scene. Seminar format. 
SOCIOLOGY 
•

Soc 329 -Sociological and Anthropological Study of Religion-Tarleton-1TTl 
Focus on religion in different societies and cultures and includes coverage of comparative approaches. An area of concentration will be the theology of liberation . 
1 t:. "..>, .• '• • • ' • "-",, •4 ". ~ • • ) •. •~' f t • '• ·, "·• " , , , 'r ~~ 0,. • 
---.------------~-------------,~--~~----~~-----------.------~~........................ 
• 
• 

Tuesday, November 8, 1977 the obse.Ver 
by the middle -of the song the voices of Crosby and Nash were full and confident, and the harmony delicate and beautiful. Meanwhile, Stills picked out the soft rhythmic background and offered an occasional solo. Three-quarters of the way through the song, the crowd was on its feet, delighted with this, the essential Crosy, Stills & Nash ... and the ConcertGoer could feel it coming on ­
-now Stills was tossing his guitar like some magic wand, and the audience him-before they 
Crosby's almost breathless declaration after "Shadow Captain" that "We enjoyed that one ourselves" ... and of course their seemingly incessant smiles and laughter ... 
It was the love between the three ofthem and their band ... the hugging and hand­shaking displayed at the end of the concert...the often touching introductions of each other's songs, Crosby once stating how proud he was to have Stephen Stills (at one time an enemy) as a friend ... Stills with his arm around drummer Joe Vitale ... 
It was the love in the audience 
b~ Br~an Grule~ 
That the evening was so beautifully warm and clear for November never occurred to the ConcertGoer. 
He was really in no mood for extraordi­nary happenings, and consequently, ex­pected none to come his way. Presently his mind was on his hobbled ankle, which he'd nearly broken earlier in the day, and upon the task immediately at hand -to see and review a concert by the fabled Crosby, Stills and Nash. Many people would probably envision such an even as some­thing most certainly extraordinary, consid­ering that CSN was performing live on tour for the first time in three years. After all CSN was something of a legend, having been unofficially dubbed the ''American Beatles" during the few years they rode the crest of the Woodstock wave through the turbulent revolution hype that was the late sixties. A true American poplegacy. To the ConcertGoer, however, this was all pomp and circumstance, revelry in a spirit that had had its day. He'd seen CSN exactly five months prior to this evening, when they'd begun their US Tour on a rainy weekend in Detroit. He'd gone to that concert full of expectations, gone there Next came a tasteful rendering of "The again for "Helplessly Hoping" and "See for CSN ...the long ovations, the frantic to see and feel an Expoerience -the cosmic Lee Shore," with Nash harmonizing over the Changes." And then Stills was cries for more ... of course the whole CSN experience -that until then he c ould Crosby's lead vocal and Stills off to the side standing and saying "This is my favorite ACC singing along ... and some dude only read about in "cosmic" magazines riffing under the melody. The popular song by David Crosby," and leaving the screaming out, just after "Cathedral," "I like Rolling Stone. An Experience of "Just a Song Before I Go" followed, its stage for Crosby to join Nash for what was love you guys!" ... and the final tribute to revelation and truth; and Experience (as he delicate harmonies somewhat obscured by perhaps the most beautiful song of the CSN with the "you you you you you you had written then) "fathered and bared to faulty ACCacoustics. night, "Guinnevere." A love song, a you!" cheer at the third and final encore... the world in the 60's, when the children Things got a bit more frantic with "Wild godawfui :iimple but gorgeous love song It was love, love that the ConcertGoer suddenly quit the charade, split this scene -Tales,." the title cut from Nash's second whose m!:£t touching part was that of the now felt, love that transcended any· man-and the rabble be roused, the album, as the left side of the main floor free-form vocal interplay between Crosby political or topical or time-governing rebellion was on ... " He'd come away from rose to their feet at the song's beginning. and Nash,_ so unrestricted and lilting ... into considerations of CSN's music, love that that concert disillusion and was somewhat "Shadow Captain" slowed the pace for "Our House," with Nash on piano and the now bared itself as that force that runs like confused. awhile with its soft opening and the entire crowd standing to sing along, to sing a silver thread through the concert 
''There simply was no Experience to be delicate, precisely-executed harmonies and forget the day, forget the night, forget performance of Crosby, Stills & Nash. Just had," he had written. "The Experience that accompanied it. Soon though, the everything but the melody taking you simple love. thing was all some stupid illusion I was house was rocking again, Crosby Pirhouet-along, as when you are totally in love and The encores were the final manifesta­trying to envision as reality. But true ting around the stage •while the band think nothing of anything except "every-tions of this love. First there was reality of any Experience disappeared cleanly affected the rhythmic changes thing is easy 'cuz of you." Suddenly it was "Wooden ships," another CSN classic, years ago ... " developed in the song, demonstrating the all so lyrical, so subtly romantic and so highlighted by a wailing organ/guitar 
His disappointment at the lack of any tightness they've developed over five easy, just singing along with a roomful of call-and-response just before the song's perceivable Experience had been offset, months of touring. They closed the first set people and three guys to help us along -dramatic close. For their second encore, however, by the musical excellence of the with a raucous version of what Crosby Crosby, Stills and Nash. Yes, the force was CSN came out with a rowdy country version show. He concluded that the true . termed a "classic Stills song," "Tum Back taking them all away, taking them into the of yet another crowd favorite, "Teach Your Experiencelies in the music itself, and in the Pages." Despite Stills hoarse vocaliza-music where before they'd only been Children." Nash got everyone singing the musicians who made it -that was all tion, this rock tune eventually brought the standing all around it. What was this again, and when in the middle of the song, there was to lake. Still, he wondered at the crowd to its feet, and Stills responded by force? the lights began to come slowly back on, forces which underlie the music, which ran running around the entire stage while The ConcertGoer had no time to think of the ConcertGoer had a striking imaginary like a silver thread through the musicians' belting out a searing, rather mundane solo that. That was what he'd done before, vision: that of a huge grade school passion for making it -forces which CSN against Nash's high-pitched vocal bar-taken time to think, and in so doing had auditorium, with bleachers around the side seemed to have in utter control... mony. Before leaving for a break, Crosby missed the concert, had missed the chance and of course the lights always on, and 
... now, as he sat in the ACC prior to the promised the crowd they'd be back shortly to be swept up and away by the force Crosby,Stills, & Nash, circa 1969, at the concert, he remembered some of these for some acoustic music. of... what was it? ... Now the band returned, center of it all. And all these little past perceptions, and simultaneously de­In the padded seats to the left of the and CSN went into high energetic gear, grade-schoolers singing along, "Teach cided that on this night he would listen for stage, the ConcertGoer noted this and sat with a bold version of "Cathedral." Next your parents well" -like the entire ND the music, and for the musicians' creation back to await CSN's return. Things were came Stills with a short solo rendering of throng had jumped back eight years in of it, and for nothing else. The forces going as expected: CSN was playing songs, ''Crossroads," and then the band was back time, to where the force had its first roots, underlying the music would have to remain playing them well, playing them for the again for the final songs: "Wind on the to where the love was first generated ... undiscovered, for the Concert Goer was not most part like they're played on the Water," a dirge-like plea for mercy on the Meanwhile, CSN had bowed twice about to vainly attempt to define them. His albums. The ConcertGoer was listening to whale, an animal facing extinction; "Deja (Crosby called the band back with an arm ankle hurt. He expected no extraordinary the music, hearing the music alone. He Vu," a traditional CSN song that gave us wave) and left. a screaming erowd in a happenings. was not distracted by any such considera-one of Stills' finest solos ofthe evening, his brilliantly lit ACC to listen to Ute· strains of 
tions as Experience, or truth, or revelation, guitar crying; and a latin-flavored "Fair Weather Report's "Birdland," which was 
It began like any other concert. The or force underlying the music. Somehow, Game'' featuring yet another Stills solo, presently coming over the PA system. The lights went down and the audience jumped though, he didn't feel so sure that what he this one uptempto and cleanly separated; relentless mob continued to yell and stomp up, screaming of course, and then Graham had seen so far was any indication of what the standard "Long Time Gone," dramatic and scream until some tern minutes later, Nash was running across the stage to his was to come. A certain uneasiness and harmonically perfect; and "Military when the music and the lights were shut guitar and all of a sudden there was pervaded his dwellings on the first set, and Madness" -down and CSN returned to the stage for a Crosby, Stills and Nash on the ACC stage. when a friend arrived at a nearby seat, and -here the ConcertGoer stopped one final song. Crosby began to say, ''We Stills wore his familiar black sport jacket asked the ConcertGoer what he and his moment to ask himself a question: How can were sitting in the dressing room, and we while Crosby looked typically pudgy in date had missted in the first set, the a song so politically-oriented as "Military heard all you out here, and we said, 'shit. his red-sleeved CSN logo shirt. Nash ConcertGoer was tempted to say "Nothing, Madness," so relevant to a certain time Those people are moved -' ," but he played up the home crowd with his white really." For. now, at the advent o( CSN's and a certain revolutionary attitude, still couldn't finish, because· the crowd had Notre Dame t-shirt. They opened the net second set, the Coo.certGoer had a strange bear the force and energy it did years ago? already started into a loud rendition of the set with a rather loud version of "Pre-Road and seemingly foolish inclination to believe ·What force does it retain that still makes "We are ND" cheer. To the ConcertGoer Downs," presumably as a means by which that with acoustic guitars in hand, and the-Graham Nash sing it with all the conviction this was a final touch of sorts, on the one to get the PA system sounding right. Nash backup band in the wings -CSN at their , that he does, his voice almost straining at hand a boisterous show of friendship, on Hello'd the audience at the conclusion of purest -CSN would somehow come alive the pleading tone? the other just another example of an ACC the song: "How you doinl Might as well for him as they never had before. It was just love. miracle. After CSN had finished their final settle down -we got a Iotta music to play It was the love CSN generated on stage: song, an excellent rendering of "F'md the for you." • a love of people, a love of music, a love of Cost of Freedom," and left the stage to a 
"Love the One Youre With" was next, CSN returned alone, just the three of giving music to people. tumultous ovation, the ConcertGoer de­still quite loud, though now the vocal them, Stills now wearing an old Tom It was simple gestures and friendly cided that it was more a show of harmonies were beginning to come out. Clef!ients jersey in place of his jacket. words ... Nash waving, Crosby exhorting friendship than anything else. And as be Stills performed his first solo of the While he took up an acoustic guitar, the audience to clap, a beerbellied Stills hobbled crutchless from the empty ACC, evening, stepping into a brilliant white Crosby and Nash huddled close to one walking all around the stage for the benefit he decided that the concert as a whole was shaft of light to deliver a sliding, smearing mike, and in minutes were helping Stills of those who couldn't see... and Nash's more a show of friendship than anything piece that may have sounded better but for with "Suite: Judy Blue Eyes." Their little jokes: "How many of you girls wear else, a demoestration of simple love. And the acoustics. Nash stepped to the mike voices were at first unsure, a bit quited, as those Campus Nitees?" ... he hoped :that later, with pen in band, be for a little joke concerning ND's success if they were testing out new harmonies. Itwas a love of playing music ...Crosby's would somehow be able to tharlk both CSN against Georgia Tech: "We'll have a good Stills' voice in particular shf!wed signs of roughly sensuous rendering of Nash's and the $pirited ACC throng 1 for such i time tonight. Sixty-nine always was my wear, and on the high notes its hoarse happy invitation for the crowd to sing on memorable evening.-And th~ he wO!-'~ favorite number." weaknes_s_b~~~~ed_ ~~:. _ . ~eve~~~~~s_. __':t?.!ll' .Hou~e": __·_~Your ~I".~-__8.1!~ -·~. home ~4 .set out-~ do just that. . , 
4

<t.,; "-.-....__--,-_-.,:-..-;~..~ ...":"';-:_-._-• ·-· -·· •_-. ..t • • or 'W # ·~ ...,.·.. ~--•.,. '"> -, ••·_ ,., "·.-• -. ..,. ..., ·...," • 'Y...,.'"' ••• • "r • "'II r -. , ... -.. ... ., , .., ,.,_, r-. .. y,. , y, .,. .· • "I',.. "·"' y.,. ·.;-...,,, -,.,.,.. ~,. •"'I' ...., .,. ,. .,.._ ~· 9 .., # ., ....... .,.. • .. .,..-;.,..,... , ,.. .,. .,. •• • ;·::;:._-.• ,_•-.""~"'• • • ....... 


by Maureen Eyres 

The Committee on Business­Philosophy-Theology is offering three classes next semester designed to fill the philosophy and theology requirements of the University for graduation. THEO. 380 or MGMT 492 9MWF & 10 MWF will be taught by John Houck, Professor of Business Organization and Management. PHIL 271 9TT11 & 10TT12 will be taught by Kenneth Goodpaster, assistant professor of Philosophy· I 
Bus to Cleveland to be offered f9r Turkey D~y 
The Notre Dame-St. Mary's Cleveland Club will be running a bus to Cleveland for Thanksgiving break. The bus will leave from the Center for Continuing Education . parking lot at Notre Dame at l :30 p.m., and will pick up students from St. Mary's at the LeMans Hall parking lot at 1:45 p.m. Wednes-· day, Nov. 23. The bus will return Sunday evening. 
Sign-ups will be held at Notre Dame this Thursday from 6-7 p.m. in the LaFortune Ballroom, and at St. Mary's from 7-8 p.m. in LeMans Lobby. Anyone unable to sign up at these times should contact Dave at 1795, Debbie at 4729 or Bill at 277-3509. 
St. Mary's CDC offers workshops & interviews 
St. Mary's Career Development Center (CDC) is offering the follow­ing interviews and workshops this week: 
Business and Accounting majors may sign up today and tomorrow for interviews with National Banks. 
December graduates and alumni of all majors may also sign up today for interviews with IBM. 
Tomorrow , Business and Science majors may sign up to interview with Allied Mills. 
Students of all majors may sign up Thursday to interview with Travelers Insurance. 
CDC director Karen O'Neil will hold an information workshop to­day at the Center from 3-5 p.m. A workshop on job search will also be conducted today from 3-5 p.m. at McCandless Hall. 
From 7-9 p.m. tomorrow a work values workshop will be held in Regina North Basement, and an assertiveness training program will take place in Stapleton Conference Room. 
All workshops and interviews are open to Notre Dame-St. Mary's students, who should sign up for all workshops, interviews and events at the CDC office, Student Affairs 
Wing, Le Mans Hall. 
NEW 
IN SOUTH BEND 


COSIMO'S HAIR DESIGNS 
FOR MEN & WOMEN 
. 


COSIMO, ROSE & SUE AREYO.UR. 

I 
HAIR DESIGNERS 
for APPT. call 277-1875 Mon-Sat 8 to 6 

·~ext to tlle Distill~ 
Tuesday, November 8, 1977
the observer
6 





Theo, Philo related courses to be offered 
Theo 340 iTT4 will be team-taught by Fr. Leon Mertensotto and Fr. Michael Heppen. 
According "to John Rube, chair­man of the Committee, "These particular philosophy and theology courses are related to business because they focus on the concerns of the nation or society about the business world. They are designed to promote good, ethical decision­making in the business students. 
The Committee is an inter­disciplinary group of faculty members attempting to provide courses designed to lead students in a discussion of moral reflection within the decision-making process and policies of business organiza­tions. 
Rube explained, "The joint committee was designed to inte­grate the concerns we all have in improving decision-making of our business students so that they can become better managers. They will need the skill. The world is more complex and the challenges are P,reater." 
Mertensotto reported that while Decision Making and the Christian Tradition and Ethics and Business were open to all students, his course, Moral Responsibillty: Corporate Conscience would be open only to students in the College of Business. 
Decision Making and the Christian TradJtfon is designed to increase . understanding of the Christian faith and the way it informs thought and action in a life setting. 
The course will evaluate eight case studies involving issues of public policy as well as business and personal life in order to discern crucial issues in relation to the Christian faith and form judg­ments. Assignments will include 4-Spage "theological briefs", a midterm and a final. 
Ethics and Business will involve a critical inquiry into the concept of corporate social and moral respon­sibility with emphasis on environ­mental and energy issues. The relationship between the profit motive and corporate conscience 
will be compared-to ethical conflicts 
in non-business contexts. Assign­
ments will include one short paper, 
midterm and final, and an optional 
class presentation. 
Moral Responsibillty: Corporate Conscience deals with an analysis and evaluation of the relation between ethics and corporate policy in order to raise the con­sciousness of policy-making groups in regard to the standards, prior­ities, and consequences within the perspective of moral principles and Christian values. 
The objective is to develop a comprehensive corporate ethic which deals with the self-interest, multiple responsibilities and social vision of the organization. The approach will be basically a sem­inar with guest lecturers and discussion. 
Students who wish to register for the courses can pick up compu­ter cards at the departments on the day designated for their registra­tion. Any questions should be directed to Ruhe in Room 29, Hayes-Healy. 
Money obtained from paper drive donated 
Yesterday St. Judith Ann Beattie, director of Volunteer Ser vices, accepted a check from stu­dent government for the Volunteer Services Fund in the amount o $127. The check was the first of four to be given this year by Student Government from the money obtained from the news­paper recycling drive. 
Volunteers collect the news­papers early Sunday nights in most of the dormitories. On Monday morning they take the papers to South Bend Wastepaper where they receive $2 per 100 lbs of paper. 
The project is "doing quite well" according to John Ryan, co-ordin­ator of the collection. Ryan said that several St. Mary's halls were really "putting out" but that everyone could do better. 

Anyone wishing to assist the collection in their hall should contact his hall president. Anyone wishing to help in the campus wide collection call John Ryan at 6413 or 8701. 
Ifyou can't fly Wntinental, 
you may have to stay after schOol. 

Let us take you aytay with our economical discount fares. 
It doesn't take a course in economics to know that Continental is the way to go for the holidays. Because we're pioneers in the area of discount fares. 
Like our Night Coach prices~ Fly at night and save a full 20% off the cost of a regular Day Coach ticket. 
Or, if you're off to Los Angeles, you11 save a bundle with our Super Coach fare­just $99 one way-and no restrictions! 
And only Continental has Economy Fares everywhere we fly-save 10% just by skipping a meal. 
No matter where you fly in Continental's 
USA-north, south, east or west-we've got 
a great schedule and a discount fare to fit 
your budget. And you'II still get the kind of 
service Continental is famous for. 
For more information about our money­
saving discount fares, call your campus rep. 
travel agent, or Continental at 686-6500, else­
where in Illinois Toll Free at (800) 972-7896. 
And remember, if you can't fly Continental, 
try to have a nice trip anyway. 

*NightCoachFaresgoodonlyon flights designated by Continental leaving between 9:00PM and 7:00AM. 
We really move our tail for you. 
CONTINENTAL AIRLINES 
The Proud Bird with the Golden Tail. 
• 



-Flood destroys Bible college, death toll at 38 
Tuesday, November 8, 1977 
7 



****************~~~********************************************************************l 
TOCOCOA, Ga.[AP[ -Searchers slogged through debris littered with red mud in search of more bodies yesterday in the wreckage of a low-lying campus area where at least 38 persons died after a torrent of water burst from an earthen dam and smashed through the pastoral setting of a small Bible college. 
Twenty children were among the 38 known dead in the flood. All the victims were students or staff of the college or members of their fami­lies. 
One man remained missing and was presumed dead late yesterday. About 45 persons were injured, 12 of them enough to be 

** Class;~;ed AdS
II II

! • 
** NOTICES
* 
* 
MORRISSEYLOANFUND

* 
Student loans. $2D-150. 1 day wait. 1 percent Interest. Due in 30 days. La For­

* 
tune Basement. M-F. 11:15-12:15.


* ----------------­
Typing. Reasonable rates. Call 8051. 

* 
Anyone wishing to register to vote in

* 
Indiana's May election should call Moat


! 4-4001. 
* 
Interested In updating your understand­

* 
ing of the Christian faith and Catholic

* 
tradition? Considering the possibility of

* 
becoming a Catholic? For more lnforma­

* 
tlon, drop by the Campus Ministry offices

* 
in the Memorial Library or In Badin Hall,* or call 6536 or 3820.


* 
* 
FOR RENT 

** Three bedrooms available on N. Eddy-good location to school. Call282-1964. 
* 
Apartment for Rent

* 
Fabulous one of a kind townhouse on

* 
river In Elkhart. Sunken living room,

* 
fireplace, swimming pool, sunken red

* 
Japanese soaking tub, dishwasher, laun­

* 
dry equipment In each unit, winding

* 
staircase, some with skylight. Leases

* 
conform to school year. Nothing like it


* anywhere! 294-2151. 
* 
:: LOST & FOUND 
Cheektowaga Central High School ring,

* 
gold 
and red, 19n. Initials WJH on** Inside. Call Blll8904. 

Lost NO class ring. Library washroom.


* 
Reward. Dave 1582.


** -------------­
Found near Grotto: One combination

* 
lock, manufactured by Presto, Inc. If

* 
yours call 1n2.


** Lost: Wire rim glasses. If found call 8636* after 7.
* 
* 
Found: One student football season 

* 
tJcket. Call 8029 to Identify. Lost: A navy blue backpack with 2

* 
notebooks 
and 2 Accounting books.* Please call 7967 if found. No questions* asked.*


* * 
WANTED
** Need 1 GA Air Force ticket. Please call* Kelly 1266.
* 
* 
Inspected car at reasonable price for

* 
daughter to drive to and from school.

* 
CASH PAID. 272-4734 evenings. 


hospitalized. 
Some of the students who died were trapped in four story men's dormitory, which had 40 residents. 
The path of destruction was described as about 2'h miles long and 1,500 feet wide, most of it near the area where a creek, fed by a reservoir, makes a sharp tum at the foot of two hills in the campus community called Tococoa Falls, about two miles outside the north­eastern Georgian community of Tococoa. Two trailer parks nestled at the foot of the hills, primary housing areas for married stu­dents, were leveled. 
Eldon Elsberry, a volunteer fire-

Graduate student: Room and board to gracious home for cooking evening meal. Contact C. West. Room 120 Memorial Library. 
Two Clemson tickets. See Rick, NSH 336. 
2 need ride to Chicago on November 19. Call 6326. 
1 student season basketball ticket. Will pay$$. Call Maribeth at 7471 between 10 &12 or at 2n-o190 at night. 
Addressers wanted Immediately! Work at home--no experience necessary-excel­lent pay. Wnte American Service, 8350 Park Lane, Suite 269, Dallas, TX 75231. 

Need a ride to Cinclnnatl or Indianapolis on Friday, November 11th. Can leave after 11 and will share expenses. John 
1380. 

Need riders to Ohio State. Leave Thurs­day, Nov. 10, afternoon. Call Donna 272-3634. 
Will trade COORS and-or$$$ for one Air Force ticket. Kevin 283-1582. 
Need NO-St. Mary's students nite work. Nicola's Rest. 809 N. Michigan Street. Part-time or full-time. Hourly pay. Wal­tresses, busboys, piua-maker, dishwash­
er. Apply in person. Nicola's Restau­
rant. 
TYPIST WANTED: Full-time to typeset display advertising, Monday and Wed­nesday thru Saturday afternoons and-or evenings Hourt pay Experience help­
· Y ·
ful, but not necessary. Apply In person at: The Penny Saver, Z10Z ~. Michigan St., South Bend, 288-1411. 
Need 2 Air Force tickets. Please call 4-5181. 
1 season basketball ticket. Will pay $. Please call4-5181. 
36-24-36 sell me your Air Force tix. 1 student, 2 GA Sue 4798. 
CAN YOU SPARE TWO [2] GA AF TIX? IF SO, CALL ANITA 71152 [ANYTIMEIJ 
Need $$$: Sell me 5 NO Air Force GA tickets. Call Jim 3559. 
NEED EXTRA MONEY? 
Sell Olde Worlde industrial or home 
cleaning supplies. And personal care 
products. Some OW people earning over 
$100 weekly. All depends on your ability 
and time. Brasilia, P.O. Box 2023, 
Elkhart, IN46515orcall Elkhart293-0531 
264-1501 (nights). 
Need GA Geo. Tech, Air Force tickets. Call Claire 289-6533. 

man, said he and two other fireman saw the water cascade down Toco­coa Creek about 1:30 a.m. 
"I look up and I saw red water that was really starting to move," he said. "We ran and got in a Jeep. We were going to turn-the sirens on and wake people up." 
He said the Jeep was swamped before they could cross a bridge to a trailer park. Elsberry got hold of a small tree but his partners were lost. 
''I woke up last night and heard a 
Workshop to be held on career planning 
The Counseling Center will offer a three-session workshop begin­ning today to help people integrate • their abilities and interests with their life and career goals. 
Called "Life and Career Plan­ning,'' the workshop will be held in room 400 Administration Building from 7 to 8:30 p.m. 
During the introductory session, the Strong-Campbell Interest Inventory will be offered to partici­pants. There is a Sl charge for this test, which can help to clarify career goals. 
On Nov. 14, the session will be devoted to identifying life and career values and abilities. During the final session, on Nov. 21, participants will try to integrate values and abilities with career goals, which will be related to the interest inventory results. 
Registration is not required. For further information, cali the Coun­seling Center at 1717. 
I type em~s I see em folks_.____ 
Male business student to make collection calls. 3-4 hrs-night. $2.75 per hour. Call Mr. Gendron at 256-1884. 
FOR SALE 

Pioneer 300 Receiver cheap. Call 8636 after 7. 
USC-UCLA sportswear for sale. Come and browse. 326 Morr. Ask for Kevin. 3587. 
Classic Ovation guitar with hard shell Ovation case. Asking $225.00. Must sell. Call Gene at 1694. 
Beautiful apartment for rent, from Jan­uary until July, 1 bedroom, nice living room, pool. Completely furnished, fully carpeted, air conditioned. $199 monthly plus utilities. Call 272-9805. 
'71 Toyota, excellent condition. 30 mpg. 272-3634 after 6 p.m. 
WHY PAY MORE? FLANNER RE­CORDS has all $6.9811st LP's only $4.50. All $7.98 list LP's only $5.29. Over 400 
albums In stock. Phone orders accepted. FLANNER RECORDS 322 Flanner Phone 2741. Hours M-Th 4-5, 6:30-8:30 Sun 2-3:30. 
PERSONALS 

Glad to see you're reading the ads, Pete. 
Mary Elizabeth Barrett (MB) 
Happy birthday to the pre~y from Ch1cago who brightens up our ys with he raoturous beauty and Incessant charm Wow! She's 19 today! Congratulations, 
JWL &Co. 

To all Observer NIGHT EDITORS and ASSISTANT NIGHT EDITORS: Meeting this Thursday night, Nov. 10, 19n. Attendance required. At 8:30p.m. 
If you have any printing, lay out, and-or mana~ement experience and would like part-time, on-campus work call campus press 7407, 1-5 Mon-Fri; ask for Bill or 
John. Thlsis a paid position. 
Helpl Someone hH & ran. Big damages done to my green and white car. Anyonehaving any lnfonnatlon about an a"ldent In B-2 parking on Friday Oct. 21st, between 1-5, call Pat 7620. 
Free kittens to good jome. Call evenings 
256-0n9. 
ToJ-Jug, Pealer, Unge, Downhill and the rest of the "Operation K.I.S." team-we went for It and we got it, we got it up and in then there was much head in the 
noise and the lights went out,'' said one young man who recounted the. disaster at memorial services Sun-. day. "I grabbed my wife and kids. I knew God had us in his hands." 
First Lady Rosalynn Carter, who flew from Washington, was among those who inspected the disaster scene on Sunday. She later said the scene was "indescribable," She told a news conference, "It's a terrible tragedy." She visited sur­vivors at a hospital, touching their arms and whispering encourage­ment. 
She told Tococoa's 9,000 resi­dents and the college students that President Carter had promised federal assistance. 
Gov. George Busbee, who also inspected the flood area, said the dam that broke above Tococoa Falls had been declared a high-hazard by 
'~The Observer 
i~ pow acqepting
qualifted applicants for 
ASSISTANT AD MANAGER. 
salary offered 
please schedule interview at the Observer ad office 
~--3rd floor LaFortune ___ 
stadium. Remember when thewhite
stuff's on top it makes it all go down easier. What a climax to the halftime 
show! the Ace ---------------M-e Hank, Myshouldersaredying!!! 
Dear Dean Roemer: What's made of silver metal, holds over 7 gallons and was seen in section 30? 
Operation K.I.S. 

Saint Mary's students: Seats are still aflvlahiltable on thedNewdYoJrk areathchacrter
022 161

g • · ec. n an an. · a Mary Laverty 4319. 
Joey Andersen, How's your sex life? Hotter than ever? I had a feeling you were the one who ran off with the leftover cheese. Let's celebrate my birthday again soon, or we can celebrate yours, or anybody's. Who cares? I love you. Let's run away to Senior Bar together. 
A 

To the Thrusday night controller: My rose Is blooming & the wine Is chilling. Now who's the classy one. Thanks again. 
Anne 

Mrs. Jewett, Someone told me taht you always read the personals, so I thought Y.0U should have one of your own, Judith s friend. 
P.S. Don says "Hi!" So do D and N To all those Dillon, Alumni, Grade,
d

Badin, off-campus, McCan less, Reg1na and Toledo, Ohio, thanks a million for making my 20th birthday one of the best. Just think, one more year and then we'll really have something to celebrate -only 
no more surprises. I can only handles one 
every two decaces. You're all the greatest. Love, Anne 
Chris Schenkel eats tomatoes!!! p f Th y~~ ·mi~~r;~nmore often than we do! Please get over your cold soon. We miss you! Your Transpo class 
Need 4GA tickets for the Air Force game. Call Ron 1423. Welcome back Arlzon·lans. Remember 
our motto: "Sin must go!" 
The Louvre Doors does not accept checks or Master Charge, for more Info call Don Kiely. 
Thank the Lord, Marie Birou has returned to campus, visitations today ln Le 1-5. 
Blue is a violet, Ref. as a rose, ~ lcha~~ ~hota sucks on toes 
appy s · 
the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. 
The hazard designation does not 
mean such dams are structurally 
unsafe but that if they break, 
damage would be significant, a 
corps spokesman said. 
Meatless meals for the week 
Tuesday: Lunch-Omelet with A La King Sauce Wednesday: Lunch-Grilled Cheese Sandwich Dinner-Cheese Ravioli and Mushroom Marinara Thrusday: Dinner-VEGETARIAN PLATE: Zucchini Parmesan Friday: Lunch-Batter Dipt Cod on Bun Dinner-Fried Scallops 
The World Hunger Coalition en­courages students to try a meatless meal this week. 
~ 

Whatever happened to 1011 Flanner? * 
Your adoring public [prlvatelj * 
SWEETCHEEKS * Congratualtions on your acceptance Into * the truck drivers loca1254. * Theboysonl-75 *
* 

Happy birthday Mark Holmes Wally * Wallace. * Mars Hotel * 
Gene ** 
Happy b-day! 19...wow. Seemed you * were 18 just yesterday. Beware Keenan­he's coming. N 0'8 ! 
That was some punt Sunday, Shawn. G *
* Today Is Teresa Braun's 20th birthday. * Con't forget to say, "Have a Happy." *
* Need 1 season student b-ball ticket. Call * 4-5161 or 4-5795. *
* 

P.S. * 
How many love childs are you responsible * for this month? And what about you, * walter? * Two Fungi * 
Sam, '-* 
I'm at a loss for words. ** 
Jimmy Wheyland, * Do little frogs in Little Pond turn into * Little Princes when youidss them? * 
Betty Sue * 

Norkus, Come visit!!! **
* 
* 

Sergio: PRA! * 
Antonio * 

Sergio: PRA! * 
Charlie *
* 

Sergio: PRA! Chemo :
* 

Sergio: PRA! * Julio 
* 

Sergio: PRA! * 
Luis * Sergio: PRA! ** 
Jorge * 
* 

Sergio es el prasldente del club prana-* 
merlcano. El nos lo prara. *
* 

AAAHOI/'N{'{'ffl!! 
Attention all interested Paddleflsh... : 

The elusive deadline for ordering official *. 
Paddleflsh T-shirts Is tomorrow at 6:30 * 
p.m. To order, or for elusive lnfor-* matlon, call MG. BW, or TF at 1054 or .lit. 1757 by 6:30p.m. tomorrow. ~
* 

Jerry, * Nexttimeyou decide to sleep during Art1 * let me know and I'll take good notes. ~ _ . G... 

............--------------------------------------------------------~------------·----~ 
8 tba observer TuesdayI November 8, 19n 
Irish soccer team wins 14th straight 
by Monte Towle Sports Writer 

It's the same old story with the Notre Dame soccer team. In this case, it's a good story of a team that keeps on winning with the latest chapter having been written this past Saturda}'. This time the final score was 2-1 with the conquered team being Indiana-Pur­due University of Indianapolis; one can't really call it an evenly matched contest as the Irish out­shot their opponents by a 44-4 margin. At least 11 of Notre Dame's shots hit either the goal­posts or the crossbar. 
It took 15 shots before the Irish were finally able to put together a score in the first half. One such shot saw Ted Carnavale streaking down the right side from his outside wing position. From about 30 yards out, he let loose with a shot that banged around the goal­posts and crossbar like a pinball before finally bouncing out. That is what one might call a close call. For sure, Jim (Junior) Moellering must have shared Ted's feeling of futility. 
Moments earlier, Moellering had a shot from point blank range.It was rifling in toward the lower left side of the net. All the opposing goalie could do was an imitation of a statue. Surely he didn't know that the host was about the hit the goalpost straight on before bounc­ing away. Game, still scoreless. 
But when you're applying offen­sive pressure like that, it is inevitable that you're going to score. Senior cocaptain Terry Finnegan did just that at the 21:41 
mark. Nick Schneeman hit Fin­
negan with a pass and the lanky 
redhead had the right corner 
already picked out and Notre Dame 
led 1-0 within moments. 

The visitors tied it at one at the 
36:12 mark of the first half on a liner from 25 yards in from of Irish goalie Mark Klein. 
"They sort of had a two-on-one 
break, so I came out to cut down on 
the angle,'' the native of Doyles­
town, Pennsylvania explained. 

"The opponent just belted it over 
me. I did get a hand on it but it was 
coming in hard and rising just out 
of my grasp." 

Not often are the Irish hooters 
relegated to deadlocked status in a 
soccer game and they weren't 
about to stay out of the lead for 
long. In fact, they were back on top 
less than two minutes later. At 
38:04, Notre Dame had regained 
the lead for good. 

This time, it was the combination of Roman Klos and leading goal­scorer Jim Moellering. With a direct kick from just outside the left of IUPUI's penalty area, Klos lifted a curving, looping shot that connec­ted with the head of leaping Moellering who headed it straight home for the goal that was to be the eventual winner. It had been a tough win for the Irish, one that had seen them occassionally aban­don their disciplined, short passing style of game in response to the openness of both passing and physical expression as represented by this foreign-dominated team from Indy. 
"It was a pretty physical game." ....that's what Terry Finnegan stated.... Fellow cocaptain Jim 
by Paul Stauder Zahm's monster back, Mike Sten-
Sports Writer ger, made eight unassisted tackles. 
The Keenan defense, led by 
Keenan defeated Zahm Sunday defensive end Dave Smith and tQ win their third consecutive North linebacker Jeff Smith, limited Quad title in interhall football, Zahm to 26 yards in total offense. 10-2. In other action on Cartier Keenan could manage only 158 field Sunday, Stanford and Holy yards in total offense, 46 of them Cross-Carroll tied 6-6, while short-coming on a fourth quarter aerial 
handed Cavanaugh had to forfeit to from quarterback Greg Riehle to 
Grace. This action completed Nick Molinero for the game's only regular season play for the North touchdown. Quad, and champion Keenan Zahm was not without its oppor­awaits the South Quad finale on tunities on offense, as twice in the Wednesday night to see who they fourth period it penetrated Keen­
& h h · • d 1-z h
wtl · 1meet tOrt e campus c amp10n-an s ten yar me. 0 nee a m was 
h. h rt d b -t d
s tp. t wa e y a goa1 1me s an on a 
· th · h' d · ht t'tl D · k · t t' d th
To wm etr t tr stratg 1 e, am o m ercep ton an ano er the Keenanites used a 37 yard field time they failed to score a touch-goal by Ed Dainko to jump ahead of down. Zahm did manage to tack on Zahm in .the first quarter..Defen-a saftey ~hen Keen,an snapped the ses dommated on both stdc;:s as ball over tts punters head and out of the end zone. 

Keenan's 4-0-2 record tops that of second-place Planner, which finished at 3-1-1. 
In the other game played Sun­day, a 58 yard pass from Holy Cross-Carroll's Bob Cannon to 
Sports
Matt Pankow set up a five yard burst by Steve Kazimer to give the men from across the Jake a 6-0 lead ~--------------------------.1 
Rice took it a step further. 

"We didn't get to play our type pfgame," Rice stated. "The game got a little out of control at times." 
That's a pretty modest criticism for a fullback who was the involun­tary recipient of several undetected dangerous kicks and leg bruises. Fullback Randy Wittry had his own explanation. 
"When playing a team that is composed mainly of foreign-born players, we tend to witness a team that has loose tempers," Wittry pointed out. "Under conditions like that, it's tough to mai.'ntain the concept of good and sound team play." 
It's no wonder that Coach Rich Hunter and his assistant Tom Van Meter paced the sidelines in bewil­derment. They were not enjoying the cheap shots being leveled at their team but as true sportsmen, they declined to acknowledge the roughness to more than a minimal amount. They knew that they had a better team out there on Cartier Field, one that would eventually emerge victorious. Winning is becoming a habit for the Notre Dame soccer team and for the coaches and their players, that is fun. 
The Irish will close out their regular season as they carry their 14 game winning streak show to Valparaiso on Wednesday after­noon before heading on to a crucial clash with Evansville on Saturday. Notre Dame stands at 14-1-1 on the season. An NCAA Division 11 playoff berth would be a just reward. 

North Quad regular season ends 
*Observer 
in the second quarter, but the B b conversion pass failed. • a// ticketS 
Stanford used a drive late in the tO be distributed fourth quarter capped by John 
Badke's run to pull even, buth Distribution of basketball ticketsHolyCross-Carroll blocked t e for the season will take
1977_78extra point placement to preserve

the tie. place Tuesday through Friday. November 8_11 , at the ACC Ticket Holy Cross-Carroll finished 2-3-l Window between a.m. and
8:30 

on the season, while Stanford was 4:30 p.m., including the noon hour. 1-3-2. · Students should report to pick up 
Ted Robinson~=========================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================== 
-Bowie 

Bowie Kuhn looks like your best friends's grandfather. In fact, you can picture your friend running to the corner drugstore to buy him a box of cigars for Father's Day. However, in the baseball world, Bowie is regarded more along the lines of the village idiot, which makes it more surprising that he is still in office. 
In the past, Bowie has been accused of acting like one of Jim Henson's Muppets. The recent cases of Denny McLain, George Steinbrenner, Ted Turner and Charlie Finley helped destroy that image. His altercation with Texas owner Brad Corbett last week over possible "tampering" with free agent Larry Hisle is another example of Kuhn's increasing willingness to prove he is an independent man. 
Withe each passing day, Bowie is attempting to align his image with · NFL Commissioner Pete Rozells's monarchy. Rozelle has enough support from his owners that he can rule the NFL as he sees fit. Bowie has never had it that easy, but watch out, it may be coming. 
The marvelous transformation began last summer with the Finley vs. Kuhn lawsuit. It still amazes me that Kuhn acted the way he did and won the court battle. After all, Charlie Finley was abusinessman, and he possessed the right to run his business in his own fashion. But, wait a minute, when Finley tried to unload three star players, all of whom were playing out their options, in return for cash, Bowie said, "No way!" He claimed the competitive balance of the game was being threatened. 
In retrospect, it seemed to me that Bowie's argument couldn't hold water. The competitive balance ofthe game is presently being threatened by the free-agent system which Finley's three players used to desert him. If the best interests of the game were being considered, then Oakland's interests were certainly ignored. By losing three stars without gaining compensation, the A's were hard-pressed to remain competitive. Finley seemed to have every right to sell the three players, especially since 
•' 

Boston and New York were willing to shell out millions for Rudi, Fingers and Blue.. But Bowie interfered and Charlie came up empty, stuck with three lame-duck players. 
After the season, the court battle came up, and it was ruled that Kuhn · had the right to veto the sales of the three players. Finley had precedent (Babe Ruth, Joe Cronin) and business logic on his side, but Bowie had baseball, an institution which always remained exempt from federal antitrust laws while other professional sports obeyed these laws. 
So, Kuhn's power was increased immensely, and he has gone to great pains to exert it. Ask Ted Turner. Now, Bowie is threatening Texas owner Brad Corbett with fines and suspensions if the Rangers attempt to sign Larry Hisle. It seems as if Texas may have made· gestures about signing Hisle before last week's re-entry draft. Well, either Texas tampered or they didn't. How can Kuhn attach a condition to t his accusation? 
Also, if Bowie continues to act in the best interests of the game, he'll solve the bay Area problem. It's been painfully obvious for years that teams cannot co-exist in San Francisco and Oakland. Finley has been adamant about moving the A's but if Kuhn cared enough, he could find a way around Charlie's stubbornness. 
Instead, Bowie is more concerned about finding another team for Washington, D.C. I have to wonder if this is in the best interests of the game. After all, although the Senators didn't produce too many winners, the prople of the nation's capit11.l didn't support the team. More than appeasing the fans of Washingtion, Kuhn's· preoccupation with placing a team th~re involves pleasing the politicians. 
So, Bowie is becoming a powerful man. He's starting to throw his weight around. A Pete Rozellelhe isn't, but Bowie Kuhn no longer has to look out for the "best interests" of Bowie Kuhn. 
their tickets as follows: Seniors: 
Tuesday, Nov. 8; Juniors, graduate 
and law students: Wednesday, 
Nov. 9; Sophomores: Thursday, 
Nov. 10; Freshmen: Friday, Nov. 
11 
· 
N · h b
o seat 1ocat10ns ave een 
· d th f t d t
asstgne , ere ore, s u en s desiring to sit together must pre­sent ID cards at the same time. Each student may present only one additional ID card. Married stu­
~~~: w~~~h~rr0~~rsese!~~:_ ~~;~:
students who were notified that 
they ~ould be receiving tickets can 
pick them up along with their 
classes. This distribution is only for 
student tickets that were purchas­
ed during the summer. Students 
who purchased tickets earlier in the 
school year will be notified by the 
Ticket Manager. No tickets are 
available for sale. 
Tickets for the November 18 
game against the U.S.S.R. national 
team are not included in the 
student package because the game 
was not scheduled at the time of 
the ticket sale. Students desiring 
tickets for the game, or for the 
Mississippi or St. Joseph games, 
which are scheduled during 
Thanksgiving and Christmas 
break, should report to the the Gate 
10 box office beginning Wednes­
day, Nov. 9 at 9 a.m. The cost for 
each game will be $2 for lower 
arena seats, and $1.50 for bleacher 
seats. Only one ticket per ID card 
per game will be available. 
Tickets are now on sale for the Nov. 13 intrasquad charity game. All proceeds of the game, which starts at 7:30p.m., will be donated to the Neighborhood Study and Special Olympic programs. Cost is SO cents, and the tickets are available at Gate 10. Information concerning tickets for individual home games and away games will be forthcoming in the next few ' weeks. 







