

The Observer 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's Vol. XI, No. 71 Wednesday, February 2, 1977 
0-C holiday break-ins 
Police arrest suspects 
by Jack C. Silhavy Staff Reporter 

More precautions and coopera­tion with police are the best way to avoid break ins at off-campus student homes, South Bend police advise. 
This statement came after the round-up of several suspects in connection with the rash of burgla­ries at the residences of Notre Dame students and others during Christmas break. 
Detective Sergeants William Adelspe rger and Robert Tomas­zewski of the South Bend Police Department have already arrested six juveniles and one adult sus­pected of the burglaries. They still have papers to be processed for the apprehension of two more adult suspects. 
Six robberies have occurred since the seven suspects were taken into custody in the area and police hope the arrest of the two remaining adults will curb the problem. 
Well over $5000 in goods has been recovered and most of this has been returned to the owners. Must of the stolen goods will never be found though, Tomaszewski commented, due to lack of serial number identification. 
The detectives said they were lucky because one youth appre­hended told them exactly where he took individual items from. 
The recovered loot consists of stereos, televisions, clothing, household appliances, and many smaller items. 
'Roots' attracts largest TV viewing audience ever 
NEW YORK [AP] -The serializa­tion of "Roots" made television history last week, according to A.C. Nielsen figures made available today. 
Last Sunday's concluding episode was the all-time most watched show in America. In addition, four of the ten most watched shows in the history of television were episodes of the serialization of Alex Haley's novel. 
With "Roots" listed in last week's national prime-time aver­ages as seven of the top seven shows,ABC carried the entire week ending Jan. 30 with 16 of the top 16 shows. 
The concluding episode of "Roots" posted a 51.1 rating, meaning it was viewed in 36.4 million households. 
A Nielsen spokesman said it outpaced last fall's record-setting broadcast of "Gone With the Wind" on NBC. He said the rankings of the top shows in television history now stood this way. 
"Roots," Jan. 30; "Gone with the Wind-Part I;" "Gone with the Wind -Part II ;" "Bob Hope Christmas Special," 1970, "The Fugitive," 1967, and "Roots," Jan, 28, tied in fifth place; "Roots" jan. 27; "Bob Hope Christmas Special," 1971; "Roots" jan. 25; "Ed Sullivan Show," with the Beatles in 1964. and Super Bowl last month. 
.ABC said that during -the eight. 
Police believe at least ten stu­dent he .Ises were burglarized over Christmas break. Most of the burglaries were discovered by re­turning students, but some were discovered in progress or shortly afterward. 
Those first apprehended, on Jan. 21, implicated others and police began the round-up and recovery of goods. 
At the home of one suspect youth a four-year old girl pointed out suspected stolen goods being stor­ed openly in the living room. Most of the goods were recovered from persons who knowingly or unknow­ingly purchased them. 
Police described the youths as "bold," citing the case where youths carried a television for a number of blocks in a residential area at midday. 
Police have therefore asked peo­ple especially students, to be more observant of activities in their neighborhood. They stated that 85 per cent oftheburglaries take place in daylight. 
If people would report any suspicious activities, it would 
greatly  aid  police,  Adelsperger  
stated.  
"Students  should  look  out  for  

each other," he said, adding that by helping each other they would be helping themselves. 
Adelsperger and Tomaszewski also recommended students be more careful in taking down serial numbers and model numbers off all valuables in their house. Some sort of marking on each item would be an additional heln. 
nights "Roots" was aired starting Jan. 23, it was seen by 85 percent of the potential viewing audience, or 130 million persons at one time or another. 
It had an average 44.9 rating, which translates to 32 million homes, and was seen by an average of two-thirds of the televi­sion audience all week. 

Casey surveys HPC on social space 
byTomByme Contributing Editor 
Student Life Council Chairman Mike Casey requested the assis­tance of the Halt Presidents Coun­cil last night in resolving the problem of the lack of social space on campus. 
Casey, who is also Student Body Vice-President, distributed floor plans of each hall and asked the council members to measure the common rooms in their dorms. Noting that "some halls have more space than others,' he indicated the information gathered by the hall presidents would be used by the SLC in their study of the issue. 
Casey cited Pangborn, Sorin and Morrissey as halls with very little social space. He expressed his hope that upcoming proposals to tbe: SL~. w.ould h~lp re.m.edy the 

Notifying police before leaving for any period of time would aid their job too. Police would then check the house periodically. 
Adelsperger said most of the suspects live very close to the house they ''hit.'' They knew when students were around and when they weren't, he said. 
In most cases, robbers had been in the house at one time to see what valuables were in it and where, he said. This is mostly done at parties where burglars simply walk in and mingle with the guests "for a beer or two." 
With this in mind, students should inform the police before leaving town and again when they return. Adelsperger said names of landlords should also be furnished so they could be contacted to 
Continued on page 5 

-------------,........--,.---,--:---­

Fuel Crisis triggers more steel mil/layoffs 
INDIANAPOLIS [AP] -The fuel crisis spawned by the coldest month on record deepened yester­day with more layoffs in the Indiana steel belt and a kerosene shortage that the governor's ener­gy aide said "is changing from critical to gruesome." 
William J. Watt, chief energy adviser to Gov. Otis R. Bowen, said suppliers didn't have enough kero­sene to get through the new month. 
Kerosene is a major heating fuel in rural areas, particularly in south­western Indiana, and in low­income, substandard housing. 
Bowen expanded his previous request to President Carter for federal disaster assistance in clear­ing snow-clogged state roads and moving food and fuel. Bowen sent Carter another letter late yesterday asking that federal programs such as loan guarantees be extended to individuals and businesses affected by the energy crisis. 
Even as the governor acted, the number who might qualify for the federal aid he sought was growing. 
John F. Coppes, director of the Indiana Employment Security Divi­sion, said the total layoffs the last two weeks because of the fuel and weather crisis topped 52,000, but didn't include 7,100 recalled to work since late last week. The recalls included 2,400 in Fort Wayne the last two days. 
The economic situation deterior­ated as the weather and other · conditions improved slightly. Temperatures inched into the 20s around the state, and the 
National Weather Service said the mercury would climb into the low 30s Wednesday. 
That was a welcomebeginningfor February after January, which the weather bureau said was the coldest month on record, with average temperatures almost 20 degrees below normal. The av­erage temperature at the weather service's four main reporting sta­tions were 8.4 degrees at Fort Wayne, 10.3 degrees at Indiana­polis, 12.3 at South Bend and 14.8 at Evansville. 
With all main state roads reopen­ed, 250 Indiana National Guards­men mobilized over the weekend were released from rescue and snow removal duty. Most schools reopened, many for the first time in weeks, and the last of stranded motorists left refugee centers at National Guard armories. 
Barge traffic, stalled on the frozen Ohio River for two weeks, began moving again,carryingvalua­ble fuel oil and salt for icy roads. 
But State Energy Director Tho­mas Kibler said the barges held little relief for Hoosiers. 
"The Ohio doesn't have either of the two fuels I need the most right now-kerosene and propane gas," Kibler said. 
"I've had 12 different requests today for kerosene that I cannot begin to handle. We haven't got the product to deliver to them." 
Watt said that with better wea­ther, officials hoped to divert more kerosene to residential use by reducing the amount used to dilute heavy diesel fuel in extreme cold. 
The HPC addressed issues concerning social space, block seating at the "Boston" concert, and the Infirmary Advisory Board last night. (Photo by jim Hoffman) 
problem. 
The survey of hall presidents follows a recent Student Govern­ment campuswide questionnaire concerning the use of the LaFor­tune Student Center, the largest single social area available to students. 
In other business, Student Union Administrative Coordinator Mary Charchut informed the HPC that no block seating would be available for the Feb. 28 appearance of the rock group "Boston" in the ACC. The Student Union had arranged for the halls to reserve large groups of seats for the same concerts last fall in order to prevent long ticket lines. 
Charchut added that the Student Union was exploring the possibility of obtaining block seating for the concert of "Electric Light Orches­tra", scheduled for March 26. 
.Hoiv · c~oss Preside.nt . J()hn_ 
':....-.~%:. 
""''-w.­

O'Lear also briefed the council on the progress of the Infirmary Advisory Board, a six-member committee designed to correct problems involving the campus infirmary. He reported that Uni­versity Physician Robert Thompson had suggested that some type of booklet describing campus medical services be distributed to students. O'Lear remarked that many stud­ents were probably unaware of the kind of health services available on campus. 
"This is a problem that we found and that the administrators fou­nd," said O'Lear. "Not enough people know that things like Psych Services exist.'' He added that instead of publishing a separate booklet on the infirmary, more extensive information n{ight be contained in the student handbook, duLac. 
Howard President .Chris· Bogan .. 
coordinator of the Round Table meetings of section leaders from each hall, reported that the discus­sions at this semester's meetings would be more hall-oriented than last semester. The first Round Table meeting this semester will be on Feb. 21. 
Ombudsman Director Bridget O'Donnell -announced that elec­tions for Student Body President. Vice-President, and Student Life Council representatives would be held on March I. Runoffs, if necessary, are scheduled for March 
3. Qualifying petitions will be available for prospective candi­dates on Valentine's Day. 
HPC Chairman .J.P. Russell announced that he had accepted an invitation extended by McCandless Hall President Sue Gauthier for the l'OIIIH'il to dine at St. Marv's with .<;.M< 'h;II(J;.r~~id,:n\s,:o-n F~h: 15. 

the observer Wednesday, February 2, 1977 


,.-..--News Briefs---" Local b~r to host open party 


Water shortage critical 
SAN ~AEL Calif•.<A~)--Parched Marin County, Calif., began a stnn,gent water r.attomng progra~ yesterday, order ing the county s 180,000 residents to cut the1r water consumption by more than half·: to 4? gallon~ per person each per day, while the city of San Francisco IS planmng a bulk mailing to ask customers for voluntary cutbacks. 

Balloonist soars 
AR<;ADIA Calif. (AP) --Balloonist Karl Thomas set out yesterday on a. trip across. the continent, from California to Florida, trying to survive mountatn ranges and deserts and break the 33-day trip record. 

Cubans train Rhodesians 
WASHlNGTON (AP) --Tanzania, one of the African nations U.N. ambassador A~drew Young will visit this week, is allowing Cuban ~oop~ to tram black Rhodesian guerillas, according to U.S. 
mtelhgence sources. 

...,___ On Campus Today 
9 am  
10:10 am  
1:15pm  
L I j I 5  3:30pm 5:15pm 6pm 6:45pm  
7:30, 10 pm  
8:30pm  
9-11 pm midnight  



GM sponsors contest 
by Tom McGrath 

Twenty Notre Dame students are presently involved in a contest sponsored by General Motors Cor­poration (GM) to examine the present and future role of corpora­tions in the U.S. 
About twenty universities are participating in this program which will award $5,000 to th~ winning group. The Notre Dame students, mostly junior and senior economics majors, will receive University credit fm their work on the project. · 
Professor Frank Bonello, project coordinator, said that the students are "pretty much Qn their own" in ~pproa~hing this task. The group 1~ worktng from the project descrip­tlon released by GM, which states "Discuss the role ofthe corporatio~ 

Night Editor: John Calcutt 
Asst. Night Editors: Frank 
Kebe and Jack D' Aurora Editorial layout: Pat Hanifin Sports layout: Fred Herbst Typists: Nancy Cueroni, Anne 
Giere, Kathy Egbert, Leigh Tunakan E.M.T.: Martha Fanning 
Day Editor: Chris Datzman the second place university will lCopy Reader: Katie Kerwin J receive $3,000, and four other institutions will be awarded $1,000. 
J I  --.....,  
lecture,  "th~  us  govern ment  securities  industry,  
what  does  1t  mean  and  what  does  it's  function  

perform?", by allen c sell, hayes healy auditorium 
lecture, "the developing market for federal agency securities," by don j. meehan, hayes-healy aud. 
lecture, "the new, dy~amic options market: its past, present and future, by edward f keenan jr hayes-healy aud. . ' ' 
presentation, navy rotc presentation, library aud. 
mass, for all world hunger coalition faster, everyone welcome, walsh chapel 
track meet, bradley univ., depaul univ., anc valparaiso univ at nd, ace 
meeting al-anon, fellowship for family and friends of those with drinking problems, library, room 400 
!ilm, taxi driver, sponsored by cinema 77, engineer­mg aud. 
·pool exhibition, paul gerni, famous trick-pool artist, 
sponsored by social commission, Iafortune ballroom, 
free 

nazz, steve paspeck, nazz 
album hour, wsnd 640am, nina burrell plays bill quateman's latest album, "night after night 
in American society with the em­phasis on what its functions and responsibilities are likely to be -or should be -during the decade 1977 -1987." 
Although the participants will receive credit for this special studies project, it involves no formal classroom setting. Professor Bonello contacted students that he felt would be interested in the topic and would provide a diversity of opinion. Once the group was formed, Bonello's function became that of an organizer, as the students themselves decided the direction in which they would work. 
The body split into two parts, .vith one group concentrating on research and the second working on drawing up and distributing a su~ey to sample the community's attitude toward corporations. 
The most difficult exercise for Notre Dame's entry will probably be. t~e i~tegratio~ of contrasting opm10ns mto a smgle outlook on the future role of the corporation, ~everal members of the group mdicated. As junior Karl Kron­ebusch, a member of the group, stated, "Consensus may be diffi­cult to arrive at." 

After the research, questionnaire, and collective opinion of the partici­pants have been completed and submitt:d to GM, it will be judged along w1th the other entries. The winning school w;ill_ receive $5,000, 
by Rosemary MUls 

In an effort to improve the student social life, a local bar has planned an open partey, hoping to attract a wider variety of students along with their regular patrons. 
Senior Bob Smith, who organizes such parties, stressed that the idea is "not to have them (the students) get drunk or rowdy.'' Instead, he said, the parties will provide the opportunity to have a good time without spending a lot of money. The party will guarantee an unlim­ited amount of beer after payment of a cover charge. 
Energy bill snagged by amendment 

WASHlNGTON [AP] -The House 
gave President Carter new powers to deal with the nation's natural gas shortage yesterday but tacked 
on a price ceiling provision that 
delayed final congressional action on the emergency legislation. 
The House version of the bill, approved by 367 to 52 vote, contains an amendment tacked on during earlier committee delibera­tions that puts a price ceiling on gas purchased during the emer­gency. The Senate bill, approved Monday night by a margin of 91-2, contains no such provision. 
Efforts to reconcile the two versions began immediately but there were indications a House­Senate conference may be neces­sary to hammer out a compromise. An aide to Sen. Adlai Stenson (D-Ill.), the prime Senate sponsor of the legislation termed the House-passed measure "unaccepta­ble to the Senate." The Senate 
earlier  beat  back  an  attempt  to  
impose  a  similar  ceiling  in  its  
legislation.  

However, House Speaker Thomas P. "Tip" O'Neill (D­Mass.) told reporters he was certain a quick compromise could be reached with the Senate. He claimed that there is "no great concern as far as the White House is concerned" over which of the two versions prevails. 
Congressional leaders had hoped to get the bill to the President yesterday, but the new snag could delay final action for a day or two, aides said. 
Both bills would give Carter the authority he sought to order gas moved from interstate pipelines where it is relatively abundant to those where supplies are so scarce that homes, hospitals and small business are threatened with cutoffs. 
Both Carter's original proposal and the senate bill would allow pipelines to buy gas through Aug 1 at the unregulated prices found in intrastate markets, where gas is currently produced and sold within the same state. 
But the House bill would set a ceiling price on these purchases of about $2.02 per thousand cubic feet. That is far above the $1.44 per thousanii cubic foot price that prevails in the federally regulated interstate pipeline market but still below the price charged in recent weeks in the unregulated intra­state market. Those prices have ranged up to $2.25 per thousand cubic feet. 
The House approved the bill after 40 minutes of debate in a speeded-up procedure that barred amendments from the floor and which required a two-thirds vote. 
Rep. John Dingell, D-Mich., the chief House sponsor, said although the legislation would not solve long-range energy problems, it is "the best legislative response that could be developed in the limited time available." 
The Observer Is published Monday thi"O'JQh R'lday and weekly during the SUmTer' session, except during the exams and vacation periods. The Obserller Is published by the stUdents of the lkllv. of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subso'iptions rrey be purdlased for S18 ($10 per semester) fro,-, The Observer, Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Sealnd Class postage paid, Notre Oame, IN 46556. 

Last February, Smith approach­perform in front of a live audience e~ Rick f\anser, manager of the an~ also. provides an alternate type Library, w1th the idea of opening of ~1stemna, such as country music 
the bar for a birthday party. He or Jazz. told Kanser that no one would be obligated to pitch in any set amount The results of the first party led and the Library could possibly to the planning of others. These lose money. took the form of Wednesday night 
Kanser agreed to the party, and specials and celebrations for Spring according to Smith, the Library was break, returning to school after "packed." He said that although break, and St. Patrick's Day. no charge was set, everyone con­tributed to cover the cost. 
While only one such party bas been p~anned thus far, Smith hopes 
Smith explained that, in addition to contmue last year's practice. He to the regular disco music, musi­said he feels that although bars are ciltns from Notre Dame _will per­not the only source of activity, they form in a separate room. This can be beneficial to the students' gives the artists a chance to social life. 
: TIMM PARTY STORE : :oPEN: MON -SAT 9 am -11 poi: : SUNDAY 12 noon-11 pm •
• 
:• COLD BEER, PACKAGE UQUOR,: 
• WINE, GOURMET FOODS :
•

• 3114 S. 11 ST. NILES, MICIDGAN: 
•

• 1 Block North of state line on U.S. 31 
*7thSmash Week*


FORUM-I 

Weekdays -7 :00 -9 :30 Sat., Saun. 2:00 -4:30 -7:00 -9 :30' 
NEXT TO NORhl VILLAIIE MALL 
CLAYBURGH 



Leadership, Travel, Responsibility, Pay, and Pride 
See The Marine Officer Selection Team, LaF..rtune, 9am -4pm, Feb. 2·4. 
. ~·. • • . •.• t . . • • 

./!. Wedn~sday, February 2, 1977 the observer 

by Ann Gales 

The Northern Indiana State Hos­pital (NISH) and Developmental Disabilities Center is currently recruiting volunteer workers from the ND-SMC community. 
The hospital, located at 1234 N. Notre Dame Ave. on the corner of Notre Dame and Angela, treats mentally retarded children of all ages. 
According to Sally Glaser, occu­pational therapy assistant at the hospital and coordinator of the Notre Dame--NISH volunteer pro­gram, students are needed primari­ly to work in the rehabilitation department. This department con­sists of physical, occupational, and recreational therapy. 
Volunteers work with the child-· ren in a variety of programs, including both group and individu­al projects. Some of the activities in which ND-SMC students can help the children to participate are: 
Boy Scouts, Girl Scouts, ice­skating, swimming, arts and crafts, music and Special Olympics Bas­ketball for boys and girls. 
Although a majority of these activities take place at the hospital itself, some are held at Logan Center, the A.C.C. and other nearby locations. 
Glaser stressed the fact that most of the actual volunteer work is done on a one-to-one basis between the retarded child and the volun­teer, and added, ·~Yotn' volunteer. participation is needed and will be rewarding to both you and the child, you work with." 
· Interested Notre Dame and St. Mary's students should contact Sally Glaser at 289-1408 or 234-2101 for further information. 

J-boards meet with 'resistance' 
byTomByme Contributing Editor 

Despite the efforts of Student 
Government Judicial Coordinator 
Bob Bode, the judicial boards in 
many halls have yet to be firmly 
established, in contradiction to the 
official disciplinary policy of the 
University. 
According to the University 
guidelines for disciplinary proce­
dure, listed in the student hand­
book do Lac, students subject to 
disciplinary action for violations of 
hall regulations may "choose to 
have their cases considered by the 
rector, provided the rector accepts. 
They will otherwise have their 
cases considered by the Hall 
board." 
Resistance from some rectors 
and lack of student interest, how­
ever have prevented the do Lac 
guidelines form becoming reality. 
"There hasn't been a formal 
resistance from the rectors but a 
sort of passive resistance," said 
Bode. "We had a meeting this fall 
between rectors and j-board chair­
men and only a little over half the 
rectors showed up. Of course, the 
ones that don't want to use the 
j-board don't come. Basically the 
rectors are kings in their halls, 
especially the more established 
ones." He added that the more 
recently appointed rectors seemed 
to be more receptive to the concept 
of judicial boards. 
Bode indicated that the Flanner 
judicial board was in the • 'worst 
shape" of any hall board. 
Peter Arden, chairman of the 
Flanner judicial board, explained 
that Fr. John Mulcahy, rector of 
Planner, was opposed to the idea of 
j-boards. "He wants to handle 
everything personally. If some­
thing comes up, he won't tell the 
person involved that there is a 
j-board." 
Mulchay refused to comment on 
the matter. 
While other rectors are more 
favorable to the presence of judicial 
boards in their halls than Mulcahy, 
several are reluctant to grant 
extensive responsibilities to what is 
a relatively unproven body. To 
prevent irresponsible action on the 
part of the board, some do as 
Pangborn Rector Fr. James Riehle 
and reserve the right to veto 
j-board decisions, fearing that they 
might be "too severe." 
Another impediment to the de­
velopment of judicial boards is the small number of infractions in . many halls. Parietal and drug-re­lated offenses are technically Uni­versity violations and as such must 
be immediately sent to the dean of students. Violations of "the good order of the hall" serious enough to warrant a j-board hearing are uncommon in many dorms. 
Students in many cases find the judicial board process less conven­ient than a relatively quick decision by the hall staff. "The hall has expressed no real interest in the j-board," said Dillon Rect11r Fr. Daniel Jenky. "People have tended to let violations be handled by the staff." 
"I don't really think too many students are interested in it," remarked Riehle. 
"I think most students would prefer the rector to hear their case," said Fr. Matthew Miceli, rector of Cavanaugh. "Generally rectors are understanding. The students would prefer to do it quietly." He added that the "hoopla" surrounding a j-board proceeding often made the student apprehensive, and causes him to prefer a hearing by the hall staff. 
Bode noted that the judicial boards in women's dorms rarely hear a case because there are so few violations. He speculated that women were "clever enough not to get caught." 
But although many hall judicial boards have been dormant a few have been active throughout the year, particularly in Keenan. 
Fr. John Conyers, rector of Keenan, commented that the judi­cial board concept was "very important." 
The judicial board is an operation 
Continued on page 7 
Study in Guadalajara, Mexico 
The GUADALAJARA SUMMER SCHOOL, a fully accredited UNIVER­SITY OF ARIZONA program, will offer July 1-August 12, anthropology, art, economics, bilingual education, folk­lore, history, political science, Spanish language and literature. Tuition and fees, $220; board and room with Mexican family, $280. Write to GUADALAJARA SUMMER SCHOOL, 1530 Gamma Apartments, University of Arizona, Tucson, Arizona 85721. 
Cinema[ZZJ 
presents 

Robert DeNim in ''TAXI DRIVER" 
dirocted by Martin ~ ~ AUD ADIVIISSION $1.00 
Tues. &Wed. -Feb 1 &2 

Regina &_s._U. Sofia[Commission present the.... "Ask Me To Dance" Dance 
Saturday February 5 You don't need a jacket, a tie or a formal gown!!!! 
No Costumes 
Just a down Party !!!~ 
No Flowers 
Music by Sahara 8:30--1:00 Admission $1.00 
Mondale returns from world trip 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Vice-Pres­ident Walter F. Mondale returned home yesterday from his ten day mission to Western Europe and Japan, proclaiming that "all of our relations with our friends are on the firmest. most optimistic basis." 
Mondale arrived at Andrews Air Force Base from Tokyo where he met with Japanese Prime Minister Takeo Fukuda, the final session in a series of talks with leaders in his diplomatic debut that took him to Brussels, Bonn, Rome Paris, Lon­don and the Japanese capital. 
Mondale's wife, Joan, gave him a hug as he stepped off the airplane and President Carter greeted him. 
"We were received warmly," Mondale told Carter, reciting the cities that he visited on the tour. There is a spirit of optimism among our friends inspired by your leader­ship." 
<:arter, with Mondale at his side, said of the vice-president, "He's done an absolutely superb job. He has made me and the nation proud. 
My only order to him is to go home and get some rest." 
In an interview during the flight home, Mondale told reporters a­board Air Force Two that his mission "opened up close consul­tations and personal relations be­tween a new governmet in the United States and our-traditional allies and friends in Western Europe and Japan." 
The key discussion topics, as outlined by Monda!~ at the start of the 22,215-mile journey, were the upcoming summit conference, co­ordination of economic . policies, and nuclear proliferation. Each was dealt with successfully, he said yesterday. 
It is expected now that the summit will be held in London and that an announcement on its tim­ing, possibly mid-May, and loc­ation will be made within the next ten. 
Mondale was to report to Carter this morning at the White House. 
During the trip, Mondale said he won from West German Chancellor Helmut Schmidt and French Pres­ident Valery Giscard d'Estaing the promise to talk more about limiting nuclear proliferation. 
France and West Germany have deals in the works to sell nuclear equipment to Pakistan and Brazil, respectively. 
The new vice-president, for 12 years a senator from Minnesota, found himself ina new role on the diplomatic stage. He said in the interview that he expects to be given future foreign assignments but that they would most likely focus on specific problems. · 

His trip included a visit to the Berlin wall, to emphasize con­tinued U. S. support for West Berlin, an audience with Pope Paul VI and a brief meeting with Geir Hallgrimson, the prime minister of Iceland, while the plane was re­fueled in Keflavik on the 20-hour trip from Paris to Tokyo. 
Samora named 
Dr. Julian Samora, professor of 
Sociology and anthropology at the C-------li~WI_CJ:JISOUJi...!ll.!pi!.U...!.!!.~~~~~-----~ 
University of Notre Dame, has been named to the national advi­sory board of Mexican-U.S. Border Research Program, a bi-national study of border problems with national and international implica­tions. _ 
Samora will be joined by several Mexican and American scholars in the study of economic, demogra­phic, social and cultural aspects. Their research will include the implications of the foriegn policy of each nation for the border zone and the impact of border zone pheno­mena in shaping the foreign policy of both countries. 
Samora is the author of a 1975 publication dealing with Mexican immigration, "Mexican Americans Tomorrow: Educational Economic Perspectives.'' 
1 BUCKET OF BEER 'o l••w­
5 S1.00-0FF COUPONS lnt FM11LY Sll~ PillA .th 
1 PERSONALIZED METAL BUCKET 
!ll'l,tii!IP'''IIloiii''IIIIV 1!•1111 D~i 1H11 rt•tl•pu 1'.''''' !l.,n~t· ~.[ .uul :!,!!• ''' •"••mh··•'h'l· , :, 
Game Room 
NOW OPEN 
Hickory Rd. onlv 
pinball foosball 

COLLEGE NIGHT· 
Sunday 
show college I.D. & ge $1.00 off 16" Family size Pizza! 
40 I N _ Hickory Rd. 
T~l' 
31 N. al Uarden Rd 


opinion~~~~~~~~m 
EDITORIAL BOARD
*The Observer 
Career Questions
Thomas O'Neil Editor-in-Chiefanindependentstudentnewspaper 
Dan Sanchez Managing Editor
serving notre dame and st. mary's 
Chris Smith Asst. Managing Ed. 
jorge lopez
The Observer is published by students of the University of Gregg Bangs Executive Editor 
my friends turn somber ima inex­
Notre Dame and St. Mary's College It does not necessarily Val Zurblis Executive Editor 
Sometimes I don't know why I pressive when conversation turns
reflect the policies of either institution The news is reported Pat Hanifin Executive Editor 
even bother. 
to MY CAREER. It's catching. All
as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials Tim O'Reiley Features Editor 
It all comes back to me now. 
last semester I endured its torment 
represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Bob Mader Exec. News Editor 
Somewhere in mid-November of and would look in the mirror to see
Commentaries, opinions and letters are the views of their Maureen Flynn Campus Editor 
1976, or may it was from Septem­myself, I keep
authors. Column space is available to all members of the Marti Hogan St. Mary's Editor 
ber to December, while lying in but couldn't a 
straight face."

community, and letters are encouraged to promote the free Kathy Mills News Editor 
bedn in Zahm, the realization ·'But Jorge, Jorge .. .it's all a
Barb Breitenstein News Editor 
finally came that I had to decide Don Reimer Copy Editor 
expression of varying opinions on campus. 
phase. It will pass."

what I was going to do with myself
Box Q 

"That's why I'm afraid. I knownext year. After a sixteen-year
Business Manager Tom Fronczak 
that I'm approaching a transition.
Notre Dame Fred Herbst Sports Editor 
lock-step progression of education
Advertising Manager Mike Miller 
and the fears I have now will be
Ind. 46556 Tom Byrne Contributing Editor 
aimed at attaining even more
Photo Editor Tony Chifari 
different tomorrow. I'm veryeducation, I finally have to learn comfortable with the fears I havesomething. I have survived very right now."
Wednesday, February 2, 1977 well up to now, but where is the 
Ah, but enough of dialogue. Itnext step? 
all sterns from an insecure position My major is electrical engineer­in existential race with death. I feel ing. I could take a job in industry that I am in the lead but amnow and enjoy a security of sorts steadily losing ground. My onlywhile I discover fundamental truths hope is that l at least pull even withof nature. The idea excites me like death.
a credit card in Las Vegas. I could From my present vantage point,use my discoveries to help mankind in my twenty-second year, it frus­while at the same time satisfy my trates me to see so much energyneed to create. It all-seems too within me to do something and noeasy. It is. I must survive clearly satisfying way to expend it. 
competition to get a job in re­I see so many other people going search--if I did not make it, I must around in circles, because they seeeither look elsewhere or be content no way to escape the rut they chose with a job with 9 to 5 regularity. 
or were forced to take. It'sFrom there it's on to marriage and something I don't want, but it isdeath. 
easy to fall into the march-march ofI could go to graduate school to career orientation, putting a steelykill a few years before I have to stare into my eyes and a scowl onworry about unemployment. That my face, trying to set the world onwouldn't be so bad except that, as a fire with the slogan "Tomorrowdean told a friend of mine, most of Belongs to Mel"the people who go on to graduate I hope that by now you areschool do so because they don't laughing instead of saying toknow what else to do. I go on yourself, "Don't preach to mellooking. 
You're unhinged!" because I have A number of my friends really been laughing since I spoke to awant to go to law school. 
·friend of mine in Arts & LettersThat seems like it might be fun who isn't going to law school,except that I see stars in the eyes of medical school, graduate school,the people who say, "Yes. I'm 
business school or modeling
going to law school." It scares me. 
school. He's going to go it alone. 
I hate to impugn an entire profes­
Again, I do not say that these pie, shut down the Rock and let sion but I am searching for mo­It's risky, but much more satisfy­groups are not entitled to their ing, and I may find the guts to do
people use the A.C.C. Another tives. It may be the first step to
Apology 

opinions but such remarks follow the same. If you're not laughing-­
possible alternative would be to power: political, financial, or
ing the Pope's decision only tend to worry. I don't mean to sound
establish 75 minute classes Mon­
Rotarian. I don't know. 
Dear Editor: divide the Church and cause con­day through Thursday permitting paranoid about this because no one
The option is open to go to
siderable harm. many buildings to be closed three business school. I remember is after me. The choices open to me As the Head Checker of the Enrique Lolli days of the week. are mine to make. Anything that
North Dining Hall, I feel there seeing a decal on the car of a goes wrong will be only my fault.
should be a reply to the letter Such actions may cause some student of the University of Texas concerning comments I made. inconvenience to this community, Business School. It depicted a Don't gather either that I am a 
pessimist. Quite the opposite. IThese comments were made as a but we feel we should sacrifice longhorn steer standing behind a am aggressively optimistic. To­joke not as a bad mark against the Conserve along with the rest of the nation. 
table, cradling sacks of money and morrow WILL be better.
ideas of the Hunger Coalition. I We make these suggestions, but dressed in a businessman's suit, It must be a feeling of being athink that the good that is and will feel you, the administrators, have flashing that satisfied smile of big 
Dear Editor: an obligation to take slgnl8cant bucks. moment in time. Here today, gone be done by the fasting of the The following letter has been steps in dealing with this situation. Medical school, too, is appeal­tomorrow, back for lunch the nextstudents is great. · day. I think I'll do what seems toI apologize to the fullest for the sent to the administrators of Notre Bob Tracy ing; charging down the road to tens be in vogue with intellectuals andmisunderstanding I have created. I Dame: Nick Zagotta of kilobucks under the guise of despair quietly, (Please don't con­thought the students I made the and others healing. It has to be the most fuse me with intellectuals, I was comments to knew I was joking As part of the Notre Dame lucrative of the small businesses in never near the place.) but evenwith them. I have tried to community, we feel that you have existence today but, in the future, that's too easy. I can't tindf future
shown negligence by your insuffi­Record Woes medical schools will add an extra
co-operate with the Hunger Coali­in it since speculation abotlt it has
cient efforts in dealing with this year before internship where the
tion on the fasting since it was put died down.
present state of emergency with Dear Editor: 
into being. I have also tried to give prospective physician can study So I keep looking, and now it
which a greater part of the nation Shopping for records in the important medical topics such as
suggestions as to different ways to seems the mere act of looking has get money to help the hungry must deal. bookstore has become something of investments, finance, and bribery. · become satisfying. It is even morepeople of the world It is ·known that drjving is a tedious task lately. Choosing the I look at all this now and say to fun to write about this search ofAgain, I apologize to the stu­extremely dangerous; there are record is the easy part, it's the myself, "Jorge, Jorge...don't tor­something meaningful, but sincedents and the Hunger Coalition. off-campus students that must returning of records than contain a ture yourself. You're taking your­the beginning here I have a sense
drive to school; and that faculty, large number of "skips" and self too seriously. Relax. It will
Vlrdeen Rupert 
that things are getting a little out ofstaff, and administrators must also "scratches" that creates the initial pass." 
control, as if what I was writing
hazard the roads. These are some tedium. If it doesn't trouble a "I know,", I reply, "it's just a 
were actually true. I merely hope 
reasons why we feel the University student to make the initial ex­frustration I feel deep down in my
Pope's the 

things don't end with this period.
should show some concern. change, think of the case where a gut. I see how the faces of some of We realize the University main­student has to go through the ----------------­Boss tains its own energy reserve, and store's entire supply of a particular Now it was beyond the cashier's I know I'm not the only one withshutting down does not allow for record before his finds one without responsibility who directed me to this problem, and if I lived on the Dear Editor: more fuel for others. But this does a blemish! 
see the lady with the desk under North Quad I'd probably spend half 
not justify a lack of concern on our After finding my needle imitat­In her reasoning
1would like to respond to a letter of the rear stairway. my time walking to the bookstore January 31, written by Ed Sellner, part towards energy conservation. ing a Fred Astaire routine on top of for not giving my money back she and back to my room. I am now
We believe we should join the rest

OSC, concerningtl1e issue "Pope is the record, I returned it only to be cited that a number of students patiently awaiting the arrival of my not the Church". Ed stated among of the nation in cutting down on told that I would have to pick a new would record the album and then specially ordered album which 
energy consumption. _

other things that the headline of album. I reluctantly did, but I return it for a refund. Good point, should be in sometime before finals The Observer's January 28th issue \ Some positive action that could found that it also .was struck with but how could I record an entire week. "Church opposes women Priests" be taken would be shutting down the "You should be dancing" album (41:25 in length) in a mere ChrlstopherR.Ande~n 
~ ... ~D WAN THE ltRRIBLE GREW BIGGER AND UGUfR AND NAS'TlER)~~Jf lH~ ftOR ~Nfft&ON HAD NO M'NEYTO STOP HIM... " 
P. 0. BoxQ 
non-essential buildings ..For exam-

should read ''Pope opposes women syndrome. five minutes? 
Priests,.. I think that his reasons for stating the Pope is not the Church is totally inconsistent with the basic principles of the Catholic faith. 
It serves the Church well for various groups such as the "Call to Action'' as mentioned in Ed's letter to discuss contemporary problems in the Church today. However, the Charcb Is not a democracy. Rather, the Pope is the Head of the Church, having the Supreme au­thority from Jesus Christ, Our Lord, to speak for the Church. Pope Paul doesn't need the appro· val of these groups nor does he receive his power from them as a democratic government would. 
0 
0 
NOUJ, THIS 15 MORE
0 
/..IKE 11; ~CK! THE5t
z 
/NA/J(j(Jp,4L 8fTS All£ 
6I?EA1; JUST 6l!eATI
D} I
ID 
c 
JJ 
:< 
I HAO NO OH, SU!<e! ESPe-

ACTI/AilY, /tOV/f STARS ANO IotA 7/IE/?E CIAUY WfTH THE 
POLI11CIANS HA8/WALI..Y 7lJI?N I 
IJIA5SOH/OI AIUISTSAT T/{13 

INTlJ f!NABASHEP 6RJfPIES/N 5TRIJKJNG INJI/JfJllflAL ' " 
liACII O'T1-IER'5 PRESeNCE. 601N60N! GJNcEn.' IT'S /lEAUY SOflJOF 
\ 
PATIIETI~. ......_ 

and probably half the campus 
/JJCU, I 7H()U6I{T I THINK. IT's YOU MIGHT. 7HJIT'S IUON/JfiffUt.! WilY I MOVW 
ON IT.
{ 



Unless your bike is equipped with spikes, a ride around campus could be quite hazardous. (Photo by Jim Hoffman) 
Sociology club announces appointment and prepares for February convention 
Sociology Club President Ed Singer announced Monday the appointment of Lisa Luccarelli to fill the newly created Sociology Club office of administrative assist­ant. 
Luccarelli's role in the club will be largely concerned with handling matters of publicity, as well as providing assistance to the other officers. 
The Sociology Club also an· nounced the Alpha Kappa Delta (AKD) Mini-Convention for Feb. 
19. Alpha Kappa Delta is the National Sociology Honor Society. 
Hearing on nuclear plant postponed by commission 
PLAINFIELD, Ind. AP Public Service Indiana (PSI) opposed the Nuclear Regulatory Commission's decision to postpone hearings on the proposed Marble Hill power plant, wiring Chairman Marcus 
A. Rowden yesterday that the delay "virtually assures large areas of Indiana of a very serious shortage of electric power in the early 1980's." 
''Already this project is nearly one year behind schedule, and we see no way for us to meet the energy needs of our customers if plagued by further delay," wrote PSI Chairman Carroll H. Blan­char. 
"Current heating fuel problems are a mild foretast of the impact on jobs and economy if we, run short of electric energy," he predicted. 
The NRC hearings, which were scheduled to begin Feb. 15, could have been a large step toward federal approval of the $1.5 billion nuclear project, planned for a site ten miles southwest of Madison, along the Ohio River. 
The delay was greeted happily by environmentalists and other Kentucky and Indiana, groups opposed to the project, which would be located 31 miles upstream from Louisville. 
The hearings postponement, which a federal spokesman said might mean nothing more than a procedural delay of "a couple of months,'' was apparently the result of PSI's failure to list the Wabash 
0-C break-ins 
Continued from page 1 secure the house in case of a break in. 
Students should also inform neighbors when leaving and ask them to watch the house. "The 
biggest asset we've got is people," Adelsperger stated. 
Patterned after last year's AKD Regional Convention held at Notre Dame, the mini-convention is a prelude to the 1977 Regional Sociology Convention to be spon­sored by the Sociology Club on April 1. 
All students are invited to submit papers they have written for any sociology or anthropology courses. They should notify the Sociology Office in 325 O'Shag. by Feb. 9 of their intention to submit a paper. 
The club also wished to remind members that all AKD fees are due by Feb. 7, in the Sociology Office. 
There will be an informal gather· 
Valley Power Association ana the East Kentucky Power Cooperative as co-applicants as required by federal law. 
Original plans called for PSI to own 65 per cent of the plant, with the remaining 35 per cent owned by Wabash Valley and East Kentucky along with the Northern Indiana Public Service Company (NIPSCO). However, NIPSCO later relinqui· shed its ownership role. 
Blanchar's telegram noted that PSI had yet to receive official notification of the postponement, only learning of it "via rumors and news media inquiries.'' 
"Regulatory delays in our pro­ject to date, some of which have resulted from overzealous regard for irresponsible nuclear opposition have added more than $100 million to the total project cost," Blanchar said. He called on Rowden's "sense of fair play and under­standing of energy realities," to get the hearings underway Feb. 15 as scheduled. 
Darby O'Gill throws party 
Darby O'Gill, the celebrated proprietor of Darby's Place, has invited the University community to his seventh birthday party. The party will be held tonight in Darby's Place beginning at mid­night. Cake and refreshments will be served. O'Gill issued the invitation through his spokesman, Fr. Robert Griffin, University chaplain. He stressed that he saw nothing arrogant about throwing a party in his own honor. "I want to squelch the rumor that I'm an arrogant s.o.b.," he said. "An s.o. b. perhaps, but never arrogant." 
Joe Gill, Darby's Place manager, will hold a wake for his hometown, Buffalo, after the party. 

ing of any interested students and professors in the International Stu­dent Lounge (Rathskellar), at 7:30 
p.m. on Feb. 4. Featured speaker for this event will be Wendy 
;pa;~~~~~i:g i~%~~f!al ~:~~~~gtoy~ 
There will be an important 
.

meetmg of all Sociology majors and AKD members on Feb. 6 at 7 
p.m. in room 104 O'Shag. All majors, plus any persons contem­plating majoring in Sociology, are 
requested to attend. Nazz has presented some very Marti Hogan, at 4687.
............................................ 
Valentine's Day 
Classified Ads 
Tell your Valentine and the world how you really feel! 
l Ads will be taken in the 
f Observer office· Everyday 
! until5,
!Valentine Special: Up to 10 words for $1.00! 
....................................................
'i . A • • . :I 
Witness the ''Magic'' of · 
Paul Gerni 
Famous Trick-shot Pool Artist 
. 

Wednesday Feb. 2 
·8:30pm 
LaFortune Ballroom Free Admission 
, Sponsored by Social Commission. 
•

c ::;
A 

Wednesday, February 2, 1977 the observer 
Nazz does well in opener, draws large student crowds 
The Nazz concluded its Grand Opening this weekend with im­pressive performances by Cincin­nati's Arnie Brav. The talented singer-guitarist delighted audien­ces with folk-rock show consisting of music by Gordon Lightfoot, John Denver, Dave Loggins and some excellent original material. 
Last Tuesday night Billy Adams and Bill Mahn presented the first student performances of the sem­ester. Bill Mahn entertained the crowd with a superb Bob Dylan­Beatles sound. The Nazz received a sprinkling of British rock with Billy Adams' Peter Townshend/Jimmy Page renditions. 
John Steinman presented a large Wednesday night crowd with some impressive finger-picking and vocal work, focusing primarily on Lennon and Mcartney compositions. The Thursday night audience welcomed­the superior acoustic guitar work of Dave Shaheen and Greg Mandoli­ni. The evening was highlighted with an excellent recital of Ian Anderson's "Thick as a Brick." 
Standing-room-only crowds jam­med the Nazz Friday night when the Notre Dame Jazz Combos hit the stage. The Nazz staff is pleased to announce that the Jazz Combo will return this Friday night for 
another performance. 
Student assistance is still needed to keep the Nazz rolling as success­fully as it has in its Grand Opening 
Week. Anyone interested in assist­ing in the technical aspects of the Nazz such as sound engineering,
recording and lighting should con­tahct Nazz direcTtorh ~illy! D~damt s, 
p one 8577 or ec mea tree or, Greg Young, phone 3344 · Students wishing to perform at the Nazz should contact David Shaheen, phone 288-7878. The 
professional and very entertaining shows. Join the staff and keep the Nazz alive. 

The remaining schedule for this week is as follows: Wednes· day, Feb. 2 -Steve Paspek, 9-11 p.m.; Thursday, Feb. 3 -Gruff Coleman, 9-11 p.m.; Friday, Feb. 4 -N.D.'s first Jazz Combo, 9-12 p.m.; Saturday, Feb. 5 -Michelle Parnell and Lin .Johnson, Dennis Klee and Lee Hendricks, '1-12 p.m. 
Money from book exchangerefunded 
Students who have yet to pick up 
their refund money from ND Stu­
dent. Union's Book Exchange may 
do so between 1 and 4 p.m. at the 
Student Government Treasurer's 
office before Feb. 8, according to 
Genny Burke, student union ser­
vices commissioner. About 40 
persons have yet to do so. 
The book exchange which took 
place Jan, 21 to 23 was termed a 
"great success" by Burke. she 
wished to thank everyone who 
helped on the project, especially 
Andrew Cuomo, who she said did 
much of the organizational ground­
work. 
Meeting held 
for reporters 
There will be an Observer meet­ing tonight at 7 p.m. for all Saint Mary's reporters and any studnets 
interested in writing for the Obser· 
ver this semester. The meeting will be held in the St. Mary's
b
Observer office, Regina asement. Students interested in produc­
tion and layout work are also 
welcome. Anyone interested but 
unable to attend should <;ontact 



WASHINGTON (AP) -The Carter administration plans to ask Con­gress this week for authority to re-organize the executive branch of government, White House aide Jack H. Watson said yesterday. 
Watson said the administration will seek the same author.iqr which Congress gave former President Richard M. Nixon in 1~ for reorganization changes. 
Under the authoricy given Nixon and, other preside~ in the past, changes could be ~ade within Cabinet departments and take ef­fect in 60 days unless vetoed by Congress. 
Watson, President Carter's as­sistant for intergovernmental rel­ations, spoke at a meeting of about 600 city and county officials here for the annual federal briefing of the National Association of Reg­ional Councils. 
He drew loud applause when he said the administration is going to make an all-out assault on federal regulations, forms and reporting requirements. 
He recalled that at first Cabinet 
meeting of the new administration, 
President Carter said "There are 
too many lawyers in the federal 
government whose job it is to write 
federal regulations." 

Watson also predicted there 
Billiards artist to appear at LaFortune 
by David Beno 

Paul Gerni, South Bend pocket billiards artist, will demonstrate some of his trick shots tonight in 
the  LaFortune  ballroom  at  8:30  
p.m.  
Bill  Murray,  organizer  of  the  

event and the Social Commission expect a large crowd tonight. Murray commented, "We've al­ways attracted large audiences in the past, and this is why we're having it in the ballroom instead of the poolroom this year.'' 
Gerni will pull about 30 shots out of his 170-shot repertoire tonight, complete with humor and the history behind each shot, according to Murray. 
Having ~tarted playing pool at the age of 6, Gerni won his first championship only a year later. He has achieved the status of World Champion twice and has won the 
U.S. Masters Tournament and the 1975 European Championships. Gerni, 28, has also hosted his own pocket billiards television show. 
In addition to his billiards a­chievements, Gerni also holds bachelors degrees in marketing and economics and a masters in comsumer affairs, all from Purdue U nivers: i:y. 
Gerni has appeared at Notre Dame for several successive years and averages ISO performances a year, mostly on college campuses. 
Coal policy discussed 
WASHINGTON, D.C. --In an un­Gerald Decker, corporate energy precedented show of cooperation manager for Dow Chemical Co. leaders of environmental groups, Each of the project's five task trade unionists, energy industria­forces will be co-chaired by an lists and consumers sat down environmentalist and an industry together last week for the first of a or union. leader. The project will year-long series of meetings seek­prepare reports and organize lob­ing to hammer out a national policy bying efforts on all aspects of coal on mining and utilization of coal. development, including stripmin­
Spurred by the nation's growing ing coal gasification, pricing and dependence on coal, the newly air quality. formed National Coal Policy Project According to an observer at the 
promised to pursue the "rule of meeting, the project will not at­reason approach," rather than the tempt to stifle debate. "Some traditional acrimonious debate that issues will remain unsettled and has characterized formation of an subject to continuing public de­energy policy. bate, but the project is a serious 
Lawrence Moss, former presi­attempt to share information and dent of the Sierra Club, will serve develop a reasonable policy on as co-chairman of the group with ...he said. 
'Gopher' tree may provide alternative in energy crisis 
BERKELEr, CA --"Gasoline barrels ot tuet per acre eacn year. trees" may someday replace oil He says the fuel would burn rigs, says Nobel Prize-winning cleaner than gasoline and thus be chemist Dr. Melvin Calvin of the less polluting. It's also economi­University of California. cally competitive, he believes, cost­
Calvin told the recent meeting of ing roughly $5-$15 per barrel for would be presidential orders soon review not only the orgamzation of the American Chemical Society growing and processing. abolishing a lot of the 1,200 the federal government, but also that he's discovered a tree that Calvin's candidate for the gaso­advisory committees and councils the federal presence in the ten produces a sticky sap which is one­line tree is commonly known as the in the executive branch. Some will regions of the country, he said. third hydrocarbon and may· be "gopher plant." It's found be kept, he said, adding,"We want "better than gasoline." throughout southern California, to make citizen participation in The executive reorganization bill Calvin envisions a "hydrocarbon where it's planted as a hedge to those councils work better." may go to Congress today or plantation" in the Southwest which • ward off gophers, which are repel­
The "dministration wants to tomorrow, Watson said. he believes could produce ten to SO led by its sap. 
While iR stll free. 
Jeni Malara, Student 
"I had C's in high school. Aher Evelyn Wood Reading Dynamics, I was able to maintain an A average:' 
Chris Walsh, John Futch, Jim Creighton, Richard St. Laurent, Engineering Law Student Student Teacher "It's boring to read the way "With 60 briefs a week, "It's easy. Once you "I was skeptical, but now I'm most people are taught. the average student takes know how to do it. it's reading around 2300 words a This way, you look at a all week to prepare for super easy!" minute. Puts you that much page of print-you see the class. In an evening, ahead of everyone else:· whole page. It's great!" I'm finished:' 
It'll make homework a lot easier this year. In fact, you can cut your study time almost in half with the copyrighted techniques you learn in one free lesson. We'll give you the incredible secrets to easy speed reading, better concentration and greater comprehension. Taught in more than 300 cities throughout the U.S. It's easy. It's fun. It works. 
Increase your reading speed as 111uch as JOOOkl 
South Bend 
TODAY 

THRU Notre Dame Campus
LAST2DAYS 
THURSDAY Center for Continuing Education 

TM 
~EVELYN WOOD READING DYNAMICS 

Wednesday, february 2, 1977 the observer 7_ 
Nuclear energy cited as only answer to energy gap 
PAIUS [AP] • The outgoing presi­nuclear energy would have to be dent of the International Energy used. Agency (lEA) said yesterday the Governments "must deal with world must use nuclear power to what is available now, and have an meet its energy needs over the next aggressive R and D (research and ten to 15 years despite public development) program on top of it, 
concernabout its safety. but not in place of it,'' Davignon 
"It is clear. The figures are said. "We have to explain this unfortunately there. We won't time and time again." meet the gap if we don't use Davignon said, however, "The nuclear energy,'' Viscount Etienne concerns of the people are Davignon told a farewell meeting genuine." with reporters. "We can't run "Lot's of work has to be done on away from that." nuclear energy," he continued. 
Davignon, a Belgian, has been "We must promote safeguards. named to the European Common We must ensure that the whole Market Commission. His succes­nuclear energy program. in indus­sor as head of the lEA which was tralized countries can be properly
.. 
formed on American initiative after explained to the people, that we the 1973 oil crisis, will be the give them the safeguards, that we German secretary of state for do much more work than we have economics, Dr. Detlev Rohweder, been doing so far on waste disposal 
44. issues," he said. 
Davignon also said lEA figures · He said the public must be given showed that Saudi Arabia had "in "answers in a coherent internation­recent weeks" started producing al fashion" so that it "has confi­more than its announced ceiling of dence that there are very strict petroleum and "we feel that this international standards." Indivi­trend is continuing." The lEA has dual governments "by definition 
·-"' ....... '"""·"''"' .Jill" also confirmed, he said, that Saudi can only say nuclear energy plants ~any bench seats have been taken by the snow accompanying our cold Indiana weather. (Photo by Arabia was making petroleum av­are being installed in perfectJ1m Hoffman) ailable to new customers outside conditions," he noted. 
the traditional Aramco distribution Davignon said the agency was pattern, as it had announced. encouraged by the priority given to Davignon said intensive research energy policy by President Carter
Roemer approves of j-boards 
and development must continue and Vice President Walter F. into alternative energy sources Mondale in their first statementsumtlnued from page 3 should have his choice. It would be It would be more trouble tor the such as solar power, but meanwhile since the inauguraion.
ofthe students and for the students a simpler system if the rector students than it's worth." to exact justice as they see fit," handled all cases, but I don't think said Conyers. He explained that simplicity is the best answer here. "If there are certain rectors," 
Waste cited in food program
most of the cases involved a "clear The rector is a resident of the hall said Roemer, "who are not con­violation" of one individual's rights and there will be cases in which he vinced that they should delegate by another, such as property can't be impartial." responsibility to the judicial boards 
for the Third World by AID
damage or violation of quiet hours. Dean of Students James Roemer I think that they are losing an "I think an important thing that agreed that the hall judicial board opportunity to do something accordmg to AiD statistics.
we have to do in Keenan is invite is a useful concept. "I would worthwhile for their students," the WASHINGTON, D.C.-Half of the The purpose of the AID study -­the j-board chairman to the hall encourage all halls to give more dean stated. He explained that free American food for children in the first of its kind --was to develop staff meetings, to insure really responsibility to the judicial there was no practical way for the developing countries --costing the a scientific way to measure thegood communication," he said. "It boards. It's worthwhile for the Office of Student Affairs to force U.S. hundreds of millions of dollars success of Food for Peace for school allows him to know the expecta-rector to delegate more authority. rectors to employ the j-boards, but annually under the Food For Peace ~nd pre-school children by study­tions of the staff. Anybody in the The rector still has enough author-added that if the system was program --is wasted, according to mg 30 programs in Columbiadorm is advised and encouraged to ity as rector to draw back if the demonstrated to be effective in an Agency for International De­Kenya and the Philippines.
bring another student before the delegation has gone afoul." He other halls, they could be more velopment (AID) study. But the j-board." According to Conyers, added that the experience with receptive to the idea. study may never be published Keenan residens participating in "due process" proceedings is one B-because of bureaucratic foot-dragg-Environment
ode advocated a change in the · 
food fights have been brought with which all students should be policy stated in du Lac, calling the mg.
before the hall judicial board. familiar, as it frequently arises . A draft of the four-year, $400,000 quality
guidelines ''too vague in some t d d d f A D 
Conyers stated that the active after leaving the University. s u y, con ucte or I by the
p1aces and too specific in others." w h' b d
judicial board in Keenan presented Miceli, who has been rector of as mgton-ase Checchi and deteriorates a great "administrative advan-Cavanaugh since 1958, described Roemer expressed his hope that Company, an economic consulting tage" to the hall staff. "It frees us the concept as "a good idea, but all the halls might eventually follow firm, was completed more than 17 WASHINGTON* D.C. --The qua­of our role as enforcer of rules, one that's hard to make work." He the disciplinary procedures des-months ago. Checchi has failed to lity of the nation's environment while we still are implementing the noted that in incidents "effecting cribed in the student handbook but produce the final version satisfac-slipped perceptibly in 1976, accord­positive values of hall live," he students directly" such as stealing. called on student leaders to "or-tory to AID, however, and AID isn't ing to the annual assessment of the said. j-boards are of considerable value ganize support in the community'' pushing for one. National Wildlife Federation. The 
"We've used it quite a few for the hall. to convince hall staffs that th( "About half the food used in Federation's magazine, National times," reported Morrissey Rector Despite the failure of some system is worthwhile. these programs (for children) could WUdlife, reports that the "envi-Fr. Raymond Holtz. "It worked rectors to abide by the disciplinary The dean remarked that viola· be dropped in the sea for all the ronmental quality index" dropped well from everyone's point of view. policy outlined in du Lac, Bode tions of regulations, such as parie-effect it has," says Richard Ellis. three points from the 1975 level, to It means a lot less work." expressed reluctance to have a tals, might eventually be heard by Since 1954, when the Food for 347. The index--down from a high 
Bode indicated that judicial higher authority curb the discretion the hall judicial boards, but not Peace program went into effect, of 406 out of a possible 700--retlects boardsareessential at the hall level of the hall staffs. "They have a Jot until their performance indicated more than $24 billion worth of food the relative success of the national for t~e ~isciplin~l( system to of discretion, but they can save kids that they could handle that type of has. J:een distribute? f~r economic, effo~ to improve environmental functiOn JUstly. The student a lot oftrouble with the University. case. political and humamtanan reasons, quality each year. 
, 41'--~-----------------------------------J!I!I!I-----~-
Nottces Two Bedroom house to rent. Audio Outlet: top name stereo -­
5 d h I 1012 Classrifi•red Ads Feeling depressed? ND-!5MC 
. te h fl . ummer an or sc oo year. equipment, wholesale. call 283--1. 4 4311 -ht 
. 111 ac you u1e'" your spare Eddy Street. $120 mo. plus utilities. 1181. me, · open nlg s.
IW 
I 
t1me. Call Beth 8112. Call Oddies Harris at 232-8563. -----------------------------­Th-;-N-;;,;;;--Wild;-~;;d:--~w ---------------Wanted For Sale: University regulation size ~~~~s:~~terested come to practice. available for parties, concerts, for-:_~0~=~4~~~~·-~~2:~-refrid[lerator call1693 between 7-12 Spm ACC field house, Wed. Feb. 2, mals, etc. call _ or _ Wanted: ride to To1edo for this eveninns. wear sweats.
7996 9 5 277 3448

after 5. Lost and Found weekend, Call Pe(lgy, 8125. ----------------------------­
1
I-------Time -25cents a week. Sports Single, Try matchmaker for a new Papers professi,;;;-;;-ii;-;;P-;~T-;ie. Babysitter for 2 yr. old boy, either Illustrated 21 cents a week. The way of meeting other sin[lles. write hone eveninCJS _ . 6 keys on unmarked key rin(l. Keys Monday, Wednesday or Friday ·bes-t prices to be found. Call Rick at P.O. Box 214, Mishawaka, IN. P -272 8303 were probably lost betweenalumni, · 9 t 1 N u · 212 6229 ft 5 30 · 
------S mornmg am o pm. ear nJver--a er : pm. Enclose a stamped envelope. Greyhound B~loChJ,;n-;;-.-L;~es outh Dining Hall and Morrissey sity. Call 232 _9541 . ------------------------------­
I " around noon. One key is marked ---------------Personals
Main circle every Friday at 5:45 A-A-10. Call Charlie Kenney at Pinball class! !This Wednesday nite, 
p.m. Call Tom at 8338 for reserva-. Urgently need 6-8 S. Carlina fix. 7 pm in America Game Room. T.
3537 

I 1~~s~~~~~~i~~--------------------~~~~_2~~--------~:!r ~h~dr~r~:~· Spidey go on his Butch welcomes audit students. 
Found: a pair of glasses Fri. ni{lht. Need ride to Lexington K y or birthday? Love, from your ex-roomie --------------­Used Book Barn. Book Barn, 1 mile Lee 1670. Dear Angels, north of Notre Dame. 272-5520. ---------------~~~~e~~~~~_2~~---BabBr;;\h;;~J!Fi;:'~;;:;-e-;t~;;-t;,~;;ht Roses are red
1---------------Found: a watch in A. c.c. last week. -:00 Senior Bar. If you have ha-ir, Violets are blue 
1
Accurate, fast typing. Mrs. Donoho Call Pete 232-7670. Needed: 3 South Carolina tickets, be there!!! I can not help 232-0746. Hours: Sam to Spm. _______________ ~~~~~s~-~r_?~~-----_______________ but think of you. 
I 'MoR'RISs__________ Lost: my new Christmas present wanted: future business partner. Any Seniors interested in joining the --------------­150 d EY LOAN FUND $20 from Uncle Herbie-a red stockinn Needed: 4 G.A. tix to san. Fran. Senior Advisory Council -you're Walt Rogers, ··1 ay wait. 1 percent interest. hat-possibly on shuttle bus. cail Give me a buzz at 1oa9, Dave. welcome to attend the meetinns Sorry to hear you dropped ... Due in 30 days. LaFortune Base-Tom at 288_ ---------------each Wednesday at 4:15, Room 120 The teacher "Sister" and 2nd floor
9916 .I men!. M-F 11 :15 to 12 :15· ---------------Need ride to Chicago area or Grand Hayes-Healy. E. wing H.C. 
~i;;-r-;;;a"th-;;.J;;';;-0f~~;;;t;'-;nd Lost: a Cross pen and an assign-Rapids this Friday (Feb. 4) call1600. ---------------H;-pp-yBi;:thd;-y$~i;:_____ I
I ment book. Call Tom 7843, thanks. ---------------Dear Marathon Man, 
I 
professors of the Sociology dept. Happy 22 nd birthday!! To a woman of quiet passion, 
7:30 pm, Feb. 4, International Lo~:j;t';t;;:;;~~ki;;lo~es-;;l~l;;ht BBA: interested in workinn as Lots of love from California. from a man with loud hands, I Stu_d_en_t's_L_ou_n[l_e,_La_F_or_tun_e.__ or -George -Student1139Union Comptroller?7921 Call ---------------The Heac
at Library Nickies, call Steve or Colleen for
3365. · ''Doey~~ of Pann. born---------------­But you've got to have friends..Gay appoln ment. Look out Indiana, here she comes
c ------------------------------Hi cutie pie! when's the next time ommunity of Notre Dame, phone Will whoever accidently picked up a you'll be runnin[l around in your Katie's almost 21 .. ·
I I 
1-1 1I 
1
8870, Fri, and Sat. 10 -12. bag with my overalls, gloves, etc. For Sale towel? The Regina Four want to c.c ---------------that was in the closet at the party on r~ive your sexy men, another party --------------­Lo[lan Volunteers SO's dance Wed. Cedar Street, please return it to 304 Joan. Have you found any unusue 
7:30 10:00 at Logan Center. Any Adidas: sale (in stoc;:k) !-shirts $2-5. soon. truit in your drinks???? questions, Call Sue, 277-1182. ':!~=~C~r~~92_3~------Golf shirts $8-10 Catalog orders, --------~=-D~~~~k~ds. -----------­
____ too (2 dav..sl Chris 7933. 1 th t 1· t I' 11
1 -----------!arne necklace Personal: the nirl the oan, e S · rea
Lost: brown with to in nreen as YP m sunburst and palm tree near CCE ro ;;;Es~i;:f;;;:~a!';;3a-a~~;Th,:ee tank suit. Really love your stroke. curious as to what is meant by tha 
For Rent S.H. Church. Sr. Elaine-1829 or Rivers Michigan. rods of I'd like to be your partner more l.>·;t personal. it was meant fo·
I 
I 
150 Completely furnished houses rann-~~:._ ___________...:_ frontage. 616-968-3212 after 6pm. often-in and out of the water. -----·--------------­
I 

inn. from two to seven bedroonis Lost· Hewlett.Packard HP-25 in --.-----------~-__________ ---~-S.I. L~dtL'SOf ~/\/1C,available for summer or next se-R . 205 . . bid I t Audto Components Wholesale .. Top . llllnks tor lht' push ,. rwe ;m
mester c 11 234 ·93 M oom en[llneenn[l g. as name equipment. Lowest prices Detro1t Club Party ' . · ·· · : · 
urner.· a -64 • rs. Hum-week. Call Tom at 8348 to help me. anywhere. 283 _ Fri, Feb. 4, 9 pm. See si<1ns in halls h<'lp BE' r:ady a:-ta'n nn : ~IHS f
1056 . 

\ ~----------------------..-..-.:.::.i:Iu~~c=-----~·=1;;_. 

Wednesday, February 2, 1977

the observer 
·~------------------------------­
Hot Irish cagers shoot down Fl 
.........­

by Paul Stevenson high with 11 rebounds in the Irish 
15 rebounds short of breaking the 
Sports Writer victory. 500 mark. Notre Dame committed a meager The S.W.A.T. made their ap­three turnovers in the first half as pearance once again in last night's
Notre Dame increased their sea­they built an insurmountable 60-33 battle . With 3:27 left in the game, son standing to 11-5 as they flew advantage. Rattled by the Irish the quintet of Bill Sahm, Tim past the University of Dayton full-court pressure, the Flyers tur­Healy, Chris Fabian, Dave Kuz­Flyers 97-64, last night at the ned the ball over ten times before micz and Randy Haefner came on Athletic and Convocation Center. intermission. to finish the remaining time. The 
The Irish displayed to their home Forward Ervin Giddings led the 
fivesome outscored their opponent
crowd that they were fighting once Flyers with 14 markers and six 7-5 during their performance.again as they sank an incredible 25 rebounds. Before the contest, the 
Notre Dame had an outstanding

of 38 first half field goal attempts 6-7 junior was the team's leading 
65.8 field goal percentage in the 
and hit ten of ten from the charity rebounder, but last night's output 
first half and hit 100 percent from stripe. was way below his eleven average. 
the free throw line. Bruce Flowers led all scorers Jim Paxson, Dayton's 6-5 swing­
"In the first half we played with 
with 20 points, sinking nine of 13 man, added 12 points and seven intensity,'' Irish mentor Diggerfrom the field and hitting two of caroms in the Flyers losing cause. Phelps commented. "We per­two from the gift line. The 6-8 The Irish boasted all five starters · 
formed well on defense and were 

sophomore hauled down a game in double figures for the evening. 
working with a seven man rotation 
Senior Toby Knight followed Flow­
offensively. Rotating Carpenter 
ers with 17 points and six caroms. 
and Paterno into the game has
Track meet set 
Knight's six rebounds gives him 
been working effectively." 

Today at 6 p.m. in the 603 for his Notre Dame career. 
For the game, Notre Dame shot 

A.C.C. the Notre Dame track team This mark moves him into thir­
50 percent from the field and hit 

will host the Bradley, DePaul and teenth place on the all-time re­
73.9 percent from the free throw 

Valparaiso teams in a quadrangular bounding list. • 
line. The victory extends the Irish meet. Don "Duck" Williams also lead in the series to 8-5. notched 17 markers, while Dave 
The Flyer's season record now Batton and Rich Branning followed 
falls to 10-9 as they head south to
*Observer 
with 14 and 12 points respectively. 
take on Chattanooga this Saturday. 
"Bill Paterno had two points in the 
Meanwhile, the Irish head for 
contest, leaving him short of be­
Greensboro, N.C. to battle David­
coming the twentieth member of

Sports 
son on Feb. 5. The Wildcats' record 

Bruce Flowers Irish in both scoring and rebounding in last the Irish 1000 point club. He is also stands at 3-14. night's 97-64 beating of Dayton. (Photo by Kevin Walsh) 
Recruiting -essential to success 
by Monte Towle a combination of the image reflect­and Smith's which carries listings hard, he will get a chance to play," successes,'' Massimino pro­Sports Writer ed by both the coach and the of All-America prospects from high Cross stated. claimed. "The commitments theyschool," Massimino related. "The schools all over the United States. Something must be right with have made is leading to a balancingschool's image is the foundation of This magazine is probably read by Cross' philosophy. He has brought out of teams and is resulting in The folowing Is the second In a a prospect's impression. Once they some college coaches as a recruit­his Vermont team from the depths tight competition among schools to four-part series concerning coUege like the school, it's a matter of ing aid in locating names of of college hockey to the ranks of recruit high school athletes." recruiting of high school athletes. whether they think that they can players, but to someone like national reknown in recent years. No longer are collegiate sportsThe final two segments will foUow play for that particular coach." George Raveling, such a magazine They have been periodically ranked teams able to remain succesful on consecutive days. Vermont coach Salzberg sum­is next to useless. in the top ten in the nation over the from year to year by relying simply marizes this recruiting procedure "I consider myself better exper­course of the last four years. on sound strategic coaching. The Maintaining a strong athletic as an individual process where the tised on who the best high school Indeed, recruiting is a funny good players are needed and with 
team is the most pressing concern coach must sell the school to each players are than some sportwriter game in that the unexpected is the growing number of ambitious of any college coach and can only high school prospect. However, he who writes such a magazine," always waiting in the wings. In athletic programs, recruiting has be realized through a sound re­is quite informed as to the many Raveling boasted. "Sure I took a fact, some high school athletes are become a competitive game among
cruiting program. The recruiting of obstacles in recruiting which com­look at Street and Smith's, but it -influenced as to their final choice coaches. As Pete Salzbert said,high school athletes by colleges plicate the process from prospect to doesn't mean a hell of a lot to me.'' for a school by the most inoppor­"Any school that has the desire, and universities has become a very prospect. Mainly, college coaches Raveling is the head basketball tune things. can have a good basketball team "scientific" operation as scouting have to be careful with their coach at Washington State Univer­Salzberg related the case where without cheating."techniques have become more so­sources of information regarding sity, a rival of UCLA in the Pacific-8 a highly sought recruit of his was phisticated to scrutinize the grow­high school athletes. Conference. Known as a recruiting about readyto enroll at Vermont. ing number of young athletes all "I try not to work through high genius who has build Washington However, on the morning that he 
Irish sailors 

over the United States. Vermont school coaches," Salzberg empha­State into a national power, Ravel­came to visit the campus, 13 inches coach Pete Salzbert probably sum­sized. ''They are involved only to ing does much of his own recruiting of snow had fallen blanketing the med it up best when he stated, "A improve the status of their high hold elections 
but does rely on other sources of entire campus. It was not longcoach never recruits any two play­school's prospect. They only serve information as well. before Salzberg learned that the by Lory Kerger ers that are exactly alike." to impede the recruiting process "I am able to get names of high prospect had signed a letter of Sports Writer Rollie Massimino, head basket­because they really don't know school prospects from newspapers intent elsewhere. ball coachat Villanova University what it is all about.'' and a network of interested alum­"You try to eliminate the room The Notre Dame Sailing Club 
gave a summary of the recruiting Salzberg presents a harsh view ni," Raveling pointed out. "I also for error by anticipating all the held its annual elections banquet processes which a college coach but it can be taken as a realistic subscribe to a scouting service problems, but you can't," lament­last Saturday night. A full com­must go through year in and year sentiment considering the impor­which gives reports once a week." ed the young coach. "You can plement of officers was elected, out. tance that college coaches give to Villanova Coach Massimino of­sometimes see a player that would with Bill Kostoff topping the list as 
"We are limited by our budget to the recruiting process. fered this further description of be perfect for your program, but the 1977 Commodore. Other the amount of recruiting and When Gene Bartow succeeded what a scouting service actually is. cannot get them because a more elected officers were Lory Kerger, scouting we can do," Massimino the legendary John Wooden at ''A scouting service is usually pretigious school has put stars in Vice-Commodore; John Goodill, 
explained. "Most of the high UCLA, he inherited a basketball operated through an individual his eyes and given him a scholar­Race Team Captain; Don Condit, school prospects we are aware of program that had dominated the talent scout,'' Maximino explain­ship." Rear Commodore; Mike Bidwell, are through contacts we get by college scene for over a decade, ed. "This individual evaluates As Salzberg suggested, a crucial Treasurer; Paul Schappler, Secre­mail, scouting services, school having captured every National high school prospects by watching part of recruiting an individual is tary; and Martha Boyle, Activities alumni and friends. Through these Championship except for two since them in action. He is thus unable the visit he makes to the school. Coordinator. various sources, we are confronted 1964. Bartow is under tremendous to determine where each prospect Upon arriving at the Vermont As in the past, this year's sailing with a prospective list of about pressure, comparable to Dan De­can play on a college basketball campus, Salzberg takes pains to team promises to be the most 
between 700 and 800 players." vine at Notre Dame, to maintain a team." meet the prospect at the city competitive in the midwest. In­From this point on, Massimino winning tradition at UCLA. Bartow For some college coaches, scout­airport, drive him around the city dividual performances by Buzz described a sort of filtering process found established stars whe he ing services and coaching assis­and introduce him to some of the Reynolds, John Goodill, Paul whereby prospects are eliminated arrived at UCLA in 1975, but must tants are unavailable for recruiting other players already on the team. Makielski, and Jay Kiley have by various criteria that marrows the recruit well every year to keep his aids. Jim Cross, head hockey A more successful case in point helped rank the team in the top 20 list to a more workable number. team ranked among the national coach at the University of Vermont of a prospect's visit to an interested out of 200 nationally competing What is left are those players that powers year in and year out. He is one such coach. He finds himself school occured at Notre Dame colleges. The 1977 season opens indicate an interest in Villanova's cannot afford to· make recruiting pretty much on his own when it several years ago. When the early for the Irish yachtsmen as the program and are yet academically mistakes. comes to recruiting. Fighting Irish defeated Southern team travels to the Tulane Univer­qualified. "My assistants coordinate all of ''The recruiting process is ex­Cal at home in the 1973 National sity invitational on Feb. 19 and 20. A number of between 50 and 100 the recruiting and rely heavily on tremely difficult because I have Championship season, three of The Midwestern season officially prospects usually remain for consi­scouting services," Bartow ex­no fulltime assistant,'' Cross re­Digger Phelps' basketball opens with the annual Icebreaker
pros­

deration after the initial screening plained. "We also depend on vealed. "A tremendous amount of pects were sitting in the stands regatta held on Notre Dame's home process. From there, Massimino hearsay and reputations regarding my recruiting is done over the watching the game. Two of them, lake Mar. 26-27. Following the and his staff assistants pay person­high school athletes. We try to telephone. I am able to get away Dave Batton and Don "Duck" ice-breaker, Notre Dame will be al visits to those athletes that check on high school juniors and from practice and games only four Williams ended up at Notre Dame. competing in the Midwest every 
represent the "cream ofthe crop;" seniors and of those who are or five days a year to visit No doubt that this particular visit weekend through May 14. Some of those players that could most academically qualified, we try to prospects.'' had been greatly influential in both the better Midwest regattas in­benefit the Villanova basketball see the top 10-15 . play in Cross is further hindered be­of their cases. The timing of a clude bouts with Ohio State, Mich­program. high school games. From there we cause Vermont offers only 14 recruit visiting a school is vital. igan, Miami of Ohio and Wiscon­Although Massimino directs his go after the top three or four as scholarships at one time, six less It is a fact agreed upon by sm. A complete schedule of 
assistants to do most of the serious prospects. The top players than the NCAA limit. Even then, numerous college coaches that yachting events will be published personal visits, he is fully aware of are usually pretty visible anyway." Cross is a highly succesful recruiter recruiting remains the critical life .following the scheduling meeting 
the importance of such visits which Contributing to the visibility of not only because of his own blood of an athletic program's this weekend at the University of are limite<' by the NCAA to three high school athletes are various charisma, but also because all success. What makes the recruit­lllinoi:;. per prospect. He makes personal sports magazines that carry pre­hockey players at Vermont get a ing the dogfight that it is. is the Oub meetings are still conduct· 
contact with the most desirable season high school All-America chance to play. growing nubmer of progressive ed every Wednesday at 6:30 p.m prospects himself. selections in sports such as footb­"It is our philosophy at Vermont athletic programs at colleges. .in the Engineering Building, roon ''The impression that a ~igh all, b~seball and basketball. One that a ."drafted". player shouldn't . "There arc many more l"()llcgc~­204. All those interested iJ 
school·prospe'ct gets of our-school is·' ··i>och · ·p'opular ·publication is· Street ·be slttin:g in" the' <ltahds. If he works . and' universities ··destined ·.to h attending will be'welcomed. 




