
-----~---------------­
Alumni Board begins talks 
• f• 


Michael VIllani Regarding long range board programs. This will serve," he Staff Reporter objectives, James Hunt, member of continued, 'to benefit their further the Alumni Board of Directors and involvement with respective alumni 
The visiting Alumni Board of chairman of Student Alumni Rela­clubs after graduation from the Directors began on-campus talks tions Group (SARG), refered to the University." yesterday at the Center for Contin­board's intention "to better en­The Alumni Board of Directors uing Education. Wednesday's hance our relationship with the will continue meetings until Satur­reports and presentations were the student body to interest them in day evening when University Pres­first of a three day discussion Alumni Club membership and ident Rev. Theodore Hesburgh will agenda. function." In an attempt to orient host the closing dinner. 
Following a brief review of com­themselves with Universtiy and mittee appointments and agenda, student concerns, "the directors," by Alumni Board President Joseph stated Hunt, "are concerned with 
B. McGlynn, separate committee better promoting the association meetings held discussion sessions between students and alumni. We with one-hundred percent atten­have to make ourselves more dance. These groups then reported visible to the student body; and let to the Alumni Board for debate. them know we're here." 
The eighteen member board, As a result of this interest,representing 5 national regions, Hunt's committee plans a seniorcovered topics on University picnic for nest spring. In wantingscholarship admissions, long range to create more dialogue betweenclub intentions, and alumni rela­the two, this picnic will givetions with graduating seniors. 
graduating seniors a chance toAdmissions Committee discus­meet precious Notre Dame gradu­sion spoke of a "search commit­ates. According to Hunt, "It's antee" system for recruiting prospec­opportunity for help in job place­tive Notre Dame students. These ment and familiarization withcommittees function to attract stu­Alumni Clubs in a particular students to Notre Dame in an effort to dent's region."
increase Notre Dame's minority McGlynn claims that "theenrollment. 
wheels for this SARG program are"Some of these prospective stu­in motion, the budget has beendents," according to James Hen­approved, and everything is set. 
nessey, member of. the Alumni It's now a matter of execution." 
Board of Directors and AdmissiOfl" Committee chairman, "require Another long range objective of financial aid. They can usually the Board is to better familiarize acquire partial scholarships from themselves with student concerns. the University; but have trouble Timothy L Truesdell, Alumni Board getting the last $1.000 or so." The assistant director, stated, "Since committee is currently discussing students will bl future alumni, our possible ways to increase funding effort is to cultiVate a good relation­for those prospective students ship with the·nf and to better seeking full financial aid. acquaint them with Alumni Board 
SLC appoints student 
The Alumni Board's meetings will continue through Saturday in ·

leaders to board 
the Center for Continuing Education [photo by john Calcutt 
been appointed last spring, but the ~----------~=.:.:_:_::.::.::.:_:_--!!::.::::.:=..:::.L-2.:.::.:::.:...::~~:!L-­
by Phil Cackley Senior Staff reporter SLC could not obtain a quorum at a number of meetings held late last 
Members for the University Ju­year and did not act on the matter, icial board and the Appeals board Chariman Peter Haley explained. were chosen last night by the There was some confusion 

ID necessary for entrance 
Student Life Council (SLC) in a among the SLC members over who I meeting held last night in the designates faculty moninees to the 
by Jean Powley this ,pld.,policy. 
Student Government offices. panel. Although administration members and student representa­St. Mary's Editor . · Fiftarly, t>resentation of an ID is the only way in which The appointment of University tlte 'tlball night staffs can distinguish freshmen andJudicial board members was tives had both chosen their respec­All St. Mary's students entering the dorms after students without parental permission to be outlargely a formality, as both Univer­tive slates of six candidates, no midnight on week nights and after 2 a.m. on weekends after-hours from those. students who do !lave suchsity officials and student leaders faculty names had been prepared will be required to present their college ID to the person permission.

expect the board to be 'dissolved before the meeting. 

on duty. Otherwise, the student will not be pdlnitted "We have a serious responsibility to parents whothree weeks from now at the Students and administrators to go upstairs. have not signed such a card and expect us to be looking October meeting of the Board of approved for the panel by the SLC Renewed enforcement of this old ruld is part of the out for their daughter," Twitchell said. 
Trustees. are: college's campaign to have students carry their ID's at Security problems and the overworking of hall deskThe SLC also elected a permanant Bill Seeger and Bill Farmer, both all times. clerks are the reasons given for the college's new keychairman and designated a three seniors; "It is the only document that identifies your local policy, to be instituted within the next few weeks.

member committee to re-write a Joan Chohrek, John Cackley, address should anything happen to you while you are Students Jocked out of their rooms who go to their hall proposal, discussed by the council executive director of the Alumni off-campus," explained Betsy Twitchel}·. McCandless desk for a key will be charged $1 ifthey present and IDlast night, on the periodic review of Association; Jay Kane, assistant Hall Director. ,' and $2 if they do not have an ID with them.

student services. director of Information Services; A student who has forgotten her ID may request that The great number of students asking for duplicateDisciplinary procedures in du Daniel Osberger, assistant dean of her information card on file at the desk be pulled. The keys creates a lot of "busy work'' for the desk clerks. 

Lac, the student manual, specify Administration; Richard J. Sul­person on duty will then ask the student questions such Besides, having so many keys circulating freely is anthat students subject to disciplinary livan, University registrar; and as her home addess, parents' names or home phone obvious security risk, Twitchell told the Observer. 

action may choose to be considered Robert Watkins, director of Pur­number. If the answers are satisfactory, she will then All money collected will be returned to the dorm inby a tri-partite board rather than chasing. 

be permitted upstairs. the form of social activi~ies, renovation, cookingthe Dean of Students. Makeshift proposal Complaints from the dining hall and the library that equipment, etc. "We're not sure exactly how theThis board, composed of three In the absence of a prepared students expect to take advantage of services without money will be spent yet,'' Twitchell said. Each dorm . students and three faculty or slate of faculty names, the faculty presenting and ID added to the decision to re-enforce will decide how it should use the money it has collected.
administration members, is chosen SLC members proposed that they
by the chairman of the SLC from a themselves fill five of the judicial pane of six students, six faculty board panel positions. members and six administrators In addition, they drew up a list of 
when the occasion for its use five other names, from which they
arises. 
said one person would be found to The panel was supposed to have [continued on paae J& 
' 
'f} 

• i \\ 
.< \, 

• 
Friday, September 30, 1977
2 the observer ___ 

,_News Briefs_______,... Says Carter: 
t=============================== National Energy crisis 'imminent' 
. of the World Bank, saymg rt was he Director Richard Helms, who has Washln~t.on _[~]· \Yarnmg tha~ COP that had joined him in been under investigation for possi­Beanies are back energy cnsrs ts tmmment, Presr-opposing statutory restrict!ons on ble perjury before a congressional 

NEW YORK CITY [NOCR] • A little tradition returned to Columbia University this fall when beanies appeared on the heads of some 2,300 freshmen during orientation. Until the late 1960's, beanies were mandatory head wear for freshmen, calling attention to their lowly status. This time, however, the beanies--minus propellers-­were voluntary and freshmen saw them as good souvenirs of a time 
to remember. 


Weather 

Considerable , :;Joudiness today with a slight chance of afternoon showers. Highs in the mid _to upper 60'~· Chan~e of sho":ers tonight. Lows in the low to mrd 50 s. Occaswnal ram and possrble thunderstorms are expected tomorrow. Highs in the mid to upper 60's. There is a 20 percent chance of rain today with a 40 percent chance tonight. 

~On Campus Today_ ___,.,. 
Friday 
1 pm 
4:15 pm 
4:30 pm 
5:15 pm 7 pm 
7 pm 7,9,11 pm 7:30pm 
8 pm 
8:30pm 
Saturday 
1:30pm 
4:30pm 
6:45pm 
Sundav 2:30pm 
3 pm 
6:45pm 7,9:30 pm 9 pm 
the jive show "live from las vegas" starring jivin' j p.d., wsnd am 640 
lecture inaugurating the oward & evangeline phalin collection of english literature, paul horgan, novelist & 1976 laetare medalist, mem. lib. aud. 
cila picnic, smc clubhouse · rides leaving from main circle mass & dinner, bulla shed 
bible study "campus cru,sade for christ, grace hall penthouse 
pep rally, stepan center 
film "royal wedding'' eng. aud. $1 
dissertation defense "st. augustine", bro. fin ian taylor, sponsored by theology dept., haggar hall 
aud. 
social & organizational meeting, catholic club, library lounge 
pro b.Isl<etball cleveland cavaliers vs. braves, a.c.c. arena, tickets $6,5,& 4 
9-11:30 pm nazz, john pietzak and ed byrnes with 

ERRATUM~ 
· 

The second paragraph appearmgin yesterday's story on Student
• f' r 1

Union distribution of ' pre eren ra 
tickets" was incorrect as a result of a typist's error. The paragrap~ should have read: "Gryp's deer­
sion came about due to the reaction 
he received at the Hall President's Councl.l (HPC) meeting Tuesday night when he revealed that he had set aside 32 USC tickets out of a total 500 intended to be sold to students. The tickets were each 
alumni buffalo special 
appearance by ed butler on bagpipes 
football, nd vs. michigan state at home 
cocktail party, sponsored by alumnae board, angela athletic facility 
devotions, recitation of rosary -grotto. every evening m october 
eucharistic hour, a.c.c. arena, open to pubIic 
guest recital, roger scanlan, tenor, sponsored by smc dept. of music, little theatre 
devotions, recitation of rosary -grotto -every evening in october 
films, "things to come" & "the war game", sponsored by student union, eng. aud. free 
paper recycling, student government collection for volunteer services. outside room door 
*The Observer 
Nivht Editor: Steve Odland Asst. Night"Editor: Rosemary "Little sis" Mills
Layout Staff: Tracy Herman)Br'fl D 'tt 
evr , -.
Features Layout: Drew:Bauerl Sports Layout: Paul Steven­
son 
h k 
~~~!sts: Eileen lync • M~r 
E.M.T.: Karen Chiames, Rich 
d.
I
C aritio, Mar I Nevin 
E.M.T .: Karen Chiame, Rich Cl 1 
· · M-d' N ·n 
anzro, ar evt 

. Day Editqr: Kate Flynn. SMC: Part of a Student Union Homecom-Ann Bathbn 
· D t ·C R d Ch

ing package, consisting of a set of 1 opy ea er: · rts . a zman USCtickets, two passes to the Stevt' 1 or Bob Varettoni -SMC: Ml'ller concert and two tickets to ~ Margie lrr 
Ad • -G T k

the Homecoming dance. Out of the i ~you!: -reg rzype , 2;)0 packages distributed by the John P. 0 Connel,l _ 1 ~Q~JNere put on..s.a.le-'.:.. •._.. .,!'!!,C?J!?.&t'!P..~.~!LJ..Qhn.,9,!,s:E!!J •• 
dent Carter urged tht; Senate yesterday toreassemble.hrs ~?ergy program ~nd approve tt. . They have therr own reputation at stake," he said. . . 
Carter told a nationally televrsed n~w.s confert:nce that the energy brll.ts the maJor product he and t~e natwn expect from Congress thts year.
"The reason that we havt: to act is not be~ause we have crtse~ or emergencres at the present trme, but bec~use they are imminent," the Presrde~t s~td. 
Carter sard there are tremen­dous pressu.res on the Senate now from lobbytsts," and urged the lawmakers to withstand them. 
He put spe~ial emphasis on thrt:e features of hts program that are m jeopardy in the Senate: a new tax on domestically produced oil, his "gas guzzler tax" on the big automobiles that burn the most 
. gasoline, and conservation mea­sures to shift industrial users of gas and oil to coal and other energy sources. 
Carter also reaffirmed that the United States would have no deal­ings with the Palestine Liberation Organization until the PLO accepts a United Nations resolution impli­citly recognizing Israel's right to exist. 
He also said that Palestinian representation at a reconvened Geneva peace conference is essen­tial to the achievement of any lasting Middle East solution. 
On another matter, Carter said an immediate agreement with the Soviet Union to hmit strategic arms is not in prospect but "reasonable progress has been make" in recent meetings with Soviet Foreign Min­ister Andrei Gromyko. 
He added Soviet President Leo­nid Brezhnev has a "permanent standing invitation'' to visit the United States, but no plans have been made thus far for such a visit. 
On other topics at the news conference, Carter: -Said that in some areas, congres­sional Republicans have been more helpful than his fellow Democrats. He criticized congressional en­croachments on the independence 
Runaway boat captured 
MISRA W AKA, Ind. [AP] · It was just an ordinary, not too successful morning of fishing for Delbert Zellers. Then a river boat drifted by Zellers saw no one at the helm, and the chase was on. 
The double-deck paddleboat, the Island Queen, had somehow left its moorings on the St. Joseph River behind a shopping complex. 
Zellers, the only boater on the river, didn't pay much attention at :first. But when he noticed the ship floating cockeyed, its paddle wheel dead in the water, he said he thought something was amiss. 
· "I could see nobody was on the ·boat, and then a guy on shore yelled for a ride, sn we both went to 
'get it," Zellers said later. 
As a crowd of onlookers waited on shore, Zellers picked up Jim Early, a theater owner, and headed downstream on Zellers' motorboat. 
They caught the Island Queen about a quarter-mile away · about two miles from where it would have dropped over a six-foot dam. Early jumped aboard, grabbed a lose line and tossed it to Jerry Storm, the ship's proprietor, who was waiting on the shore. Storm and others 
·pulled the boat in. 
• Storm said later he suspects vandal probably unhitched the boat from its dock. The Island Queen is an old-time river boat used for daily pleasure rides up and down the St. Joseph River between Misl-tawaka and South Bend. 
The Observer Is published Mon­
dey through Friday except during 
exam end vacation periods. Tl!e 
Observer Is published by the
students of Notre Dame end Saint 
Mery's College. Subscriptions 
may be purchased for no per year 
!S 1o per semester) from The
Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second cress postage paid, Notre Dame,
Indiana, 46556.
The Observer Is e member of the Auocleted Pren. All repro­
~!.~~!".!'!'.!!_•re_.~~-~~.:.-------r-' 
U.S. contributions to the mterna­tio~al organization. . . -Satd he shares ~close .relattonshrp with Vice President Walter F. Mondale and ,that he probab~y meetswith him more than all of hts staff members combined. :'There are no aspects of the Job as presi4¢ntt1Jatare.n()tsbareq by the vice oresiClent.'the said. 
-Said ·: he didn't r~call "ever knowing·_ that tbe Justice Depart­
ment itself was everinvol'Yed in the Bet:t Lance over,draft case last year." But Carter said it would have made no difference in his. decision t9 .~ppoint Lance .as admin· istratioit budget director. -Reported that CIA Director Stans-field Turner •'has not consulted with me or given me any advice" about the case of former CIA 



Freitag Sept. 30 
llam-1 pm-Games -outisde SMC dining hall­
3pm-6pm-Happy Hour the Ubrary $.50 drinks 
9pm-1-BIERGARTEN & Dance with Sahara Regina Hall 
Groucho Marx look-alike contest. 

committee during hearing on the role of the Unite~ St~tes i~ toppling the Allende regtme m Chile. 
Turner has said the CIA would have to release information damag­ing to national securitv if Helms rs prosecuted. Carter said Atty. Gen. Griffin Bell is expected to report and possibly make a recommenda­tion to him "fairly soon." 
~ ·:· ·-. · . -Sard. r.egardmg layoff~ 111 t_he U.S. televtsron manufactunng mdustry t~at this country has ~I ready nego­~rated volu!ltary restramts by Jap~n m exportmg TV sets to thrs country. As f~r steel industrylayoffs, Carter satd he "would not lay all the blame on imports," noting. for example that the U.S. steel mdustry has had problems meeting environmental standards. 



BERFEST '77 
Samstag Oct. I 
11 am-1 pm-Pre-game 
Party 
Campus View Club House 
raffle for stereo Balloons T-Shirts 

SMC Social Commission 
THE ND STUDENT UNION 
SOCIAL COMMISSION 
& THE BCAC  ~~~  
PRESENT  
,  STARRING THE WIZ  
PROFESSIONALS  
INC. DISCOTEQUE  
OCT. 1  
10:30 to 2:00am  
IN THE NAZZ  
SO  CENT COVER  
CHARGE  

FOREIGN
~l

~N~ CAR PARTS CO 
RE610Nil OISTRIBIJTOR 

complete line of rebuilt clutches, brake shoes, brake pads, generators, starters, & alternators 
Parts and Accessories for ALL Makes of Foreign Cars 
215DixieWayN. in Roseland-U.S. 31 N. -1hblock N. from Pendle St. 
SOUTH BEND , IND. 46637 

CALL: 219 272-7187 
OPEN tl:a.m.-6:00 p.m. MONDAY THRU SATURDAY 

SAVE 10% ON ALL 
A RTSn~ WlhT~. Nll~::.:.;:,;.3?.1D;:;..,;;
.. tu~o
~..,.. 



--~---~--------------------------------------------------------------­
\ ... 

• 
Friday, September 30, 1977 the observer 
3 

Fulfills promise 





Bender, Dondanville meet with Alumni Board 
$1.6 million revamping of residence hall heating ga~e the~ the . ideas, some drawing _an~ co~t eee • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 
S)litems. estimates, he satd. A second phase of apphcat10ns 1s • • 
In a telephone interview yesterday afternoon, Fr. necessary and if it is approved, "we can begin, if we're • · • Jerome J. Wilson, executive administrator of physical lucky, by the middle of May." • Junior Class sponsors trip to • plant maintainance, explained that the University plans When the University decided to apply for the low • e· to install a new radiator valve and thermostat in each interest loan, it contacted Rep. John Brademas' office • GREAT AMERICA e dorm room in the 21 residence halls, including in Washington D.C. "It's logical for the University to • • Columbia and St. Joseph's Halls. ask for help in obtaining a loan," John O'Conner, a • • The thermostats will be tied into a central on-campus Brademas aide said. ''After Notre Dame filled the loan e amusement paric e monitoring plant. "Right now," Wilson observed, application, it was sent to HUD. The request was • ••. • "Either the heat is on or the heat is off." He noted that coordinated through our office, and we continue to keep e Sat., October 8. (no game then}. $ e windows had to be opened during the winter months to an eye on it." • 10 • cool the rooms. "At times, we're heating the outside." O'Conner emphasized that Brademas did not initiate • Package includes buses & ticket. Tickets e Temperatures during vacations and off-hours, such as the loan ideas. but agreed to assist the University "to e available in ND-SMC Dining Halls during e 
by Mike Berberich 
In keeping with last year's campaign pledges, Student Body President Dave Bender and student representatve Patty Dondanville, have begun a series of meetings 
members of the Board of Directors of the Notre Dame Alum­ni Association. 
Bender last year appointed Don­danvillle as the Student Govern­ment Representative to Alumni to help improve student relations and to keep the alumni informed of important campus issues. She has since been sending an information­al monthly letter with comments on 

Heating systems to be revamped, cost estimated at 1.6 million 
The days of having to open dormitory windows According to Wilson, the money is a federal grant because of the heat are numbered. Currently loan from the Department of Housing and Urban scheduled to begin next spring, Notre Dame will start a Development. "It is actually a reservation of funds; we 
early morning will be lowered from the central plant. clear the wav" in obtaining it. 
Federal welfare benefits 


~'!HIN~2.~11i.l!~! !~~!!~Lmtbeoom· 
gressional impasse over abortion mittee to " scream at each other for 
will not" cut off federal welfare a while" before reaching an a-benefits for the nation's poor, greement. officials said Thursday. The committee has been dead-
But it may mean a reduced locked for three months on the paycheck for thousands of federal issue. bureaucrats unless the dispute is The Senate maintains that the resolved by Oct. 18. government should pay for abor-
The controversy over federal tions in cases of rape, incest or funding of abortions for poor where "medically necessary," a 
women is tied to legislation provid-phrase detractors say is vague ing $60.2 billion for the depart-enough to allow abortions under ments of Labor and Health, Educa-almost any circumstances. tion and Welfare. 
The current funding authoriza­tion for the two departments ex­ND grad merits pires on Friday, and approval of operating money for next year has scholarshipbeen delayed in Congress by the 
Joseph M. Hughes, a 1977abortion dispute. 
University of Notre Dame graduate Members of a House and Senate in chemical engineering, has beenconference committee were meet­awarded a Marshall Scholarship for ing Thursday to seek a compromise advanced studies in England.
on the abortion issue. 1beir Hughes, from Hammond, Ind.,
eventual recommendation must attended a reception last Tuesdaywin approval by the fuD House and at the British Embassy in Washing­Senate before the legislation caa be ton before leaving to pursue asent to the President for his master of science degree in bio­
signature. Rep. David Obey, (D-Wis.), said 
mechanical engineering at St. Catherine's College, Oxford. The Marshall Scholarships pro­

Junior Parents 
gram was established under thechairperson Marshall Aid Commemorative Acts of 1953 and 1959 as practicalchosen expression of the British people:s appreciation of the generaous a1d
Andy McKenna, Junior Class given by the United States underpresident, has announced that the Marshall Plan. The 30 scholar­John Simari has been chosen as ships, awarded annually, are nor­this years Junior Parents Weekend mally of two years' duration, andChairperson. The selection commit­their purpose is to enable gradu­tee consisted of the Junior Class ates of American universities andOfficers; Nan Bufalino, last years colleges to study for degrees inJPW Chairperson; and John Reid, Britain.
assistant director of Student Activi­
tie~~id emphasized that it was a Psych Dept. difficultdecisionduetothenumber holds meeting 
of quality people who had applied for the position. However, he felt for gradS
the final decision was a good one and it had the consensus of all The Psychology Department's committee members. Reid said annual meeting to provide informa­Simari has directed other projects tion to students considering gradu­similar in size to Junior Parents ate study in psychology will be held Weekend in the past, and this Wednesday, Oct. 12, 7 p.m. in 
experience was an important factor Room 200 of Haggar Hall. Mem­in the decision. hers of the faculty will be available 
Junior Parents Weekend will be to discuss the type of credentials held Feb. 24 -26. Further necessary for graduate psychology announcments concerning the• · programs, preparation of applica­weekend will be made in the tions, etc. All interested students 
ObHrver thro.ugh~..u.t the semester. are invite_~'!'_~~..attend. ·• ·J... . •. ~_;: 
... --------­
current issues to each of the 21 directors. According to Dondan­ville, the initial responses have been very favorable. 
"In the past, student government has talked about structures of government.'' Bender stated. "This year, we will discuss issues and ask for help." Bender added that the Administration is not going to "rock the boat" too much against the alumni, especially now because of the Campaign for Notre Dame. 
Dondanville has urged the alum­ni to write the AdministratioP if they feel strongly about an issue. "Ifthey just express a stand on the issue it holds some weight," she said. 

Bender will also be speaking with Joseph McGlynn, president of the alumni Board, who represents the 60,000 alumni members. As President of the Board, McGlynn is a voting member of the University Board of Trustees. Bender stated that McGlynn "has been very receptive, interested and suppor­tive of well presented student ideas. If they're conviced, they'll really support us." Bender added that the University Judicial Board, the Logan Center cutbacks and the financial aid requirements for 
resident assistants will be dis­cussed with McGlynn and the 
~.A
-~~ 


;~-<J ~ 
0!_. ~Q' · 
•"T4ra ~~ 
-lu 'r, ~ '.L"* 

-6 . A ..~~ 
~~ •"7r\ ~ J_ -'--'/"* r ~ VQ 
P ~ 

r---~~~~~~~~~!!!!!!!!!!!!....---------------------------, 
SO lltEN WHAT AAPPeNED? 
~T TJ.IING I ~EMEMSER, HE YELLED ~METHING IN JAPAN~E. 
..,._ 
I 
• 

~.--~:~--.'.;..q•-'·-'•;.;."'.;..'"-'.;..''..;,.'..;..'_'··..::'•-•-·"..;;·'..:.'f.:.,:·•;_;'..i.;~..:•~·~1~f;;J·.~,i~<:.,;·~~,.,~·rl~.'l'~·~·-=!~··~·~···~···~··~.-~~~·~-..::~-.=·~~·.___...;;.w...-.~..~~-i-~---_......._·..;.'~" 
~---·-..... , ....................~ ............ ~ .............. tt-.•-,..~··-:.:. -.-~ .. -l'"lt.. .tT~ ...., .. ,,.Jo..........,"':........ -..'lJo";.-.,.':······........... 
e dinner. $5 deposit due by Od. 1. • 
Buy all your Tennis needs at Discount Prices 
lowest prices on racketball, handball, and squash needs Mon-Fri 9-6 233-8712 Sat. 9-4 321 S. Notre Dame 


Board. 
Dondanville stated that her office was not acting as a student pressure group, but rather "as a liason between the board and the students." She is also planning several activities for the year including an alumni-senior picnic this spring, tentatively scheduled for the weekend of the Blue-Gold game. At that time, the Alumni Senate consisting of the presidents of the 123 Notre Dame Clubs across the nation will be present and available to talk with seniors at 
XMAS CHARTER FUGHT to NYC ROUND TRIP $92 
DEPARTURE DEC. 22 10PM RETURN 
JAN. 15 10PM 

Full Payment by cheek or money order in LaFortune lobby 12:30 -5 pm Mon -Fri EADLINE EXTENNDED Tll..L WED, OCT 5 
the picnic. 
The Homecoming Dance and activities this year will also be co-sponsored by the alumni. In addition, Dondarv'11e is organizing a "hospitality host" program whereby seiaiors having job inter­views in other cities will be able to be hosted by an alumni. Dondanville stated, "They really want to help the students." 
McGlynn and the Board of Directors will also meet with Father Hesburgh and other University officials over the weekend. 
------~---------------,--~--------­


The trombone section of the Fighting Irish band tuned up for Saturday's festivities on the band's practice field last night [photo by john Calcutt] 



Band starts 90th season 
by Mike Ridenour 

"Good afternoon--ladies and gentlemen ... the University of Notre Dame proudly presents its marching band in its one hundred and thirty-second year and 90th football season ... and here it is .. the band of the Fighting Irish." So the introduction will go tomorrow at the Notre Dame-Michigan State football game, where "America's First University Band" will per­form. Since the 1887 encounter against Michigan, the band has never missed playing at a home game. 
Under the present direction of Robert O'Brien, the band has a history of accomplishments which rival those of any other university band in the country. In 1976 the 
ONWARD TO VICTORY  THE NOTRE DAME COOKBOOK  
A  CHRONICLE  OF  THE  ALUMNI  BEFORE AND AFTER THE GAME  
By James E. Armstrong  $8.95  Edited by Ro Yearedel  

SHAKE DOWN THE THUNDER! WE REMEMBER ROCKNE 
THE BIOGRAPHY OF FRANK LEAHY By McCallum & Costuer $7.95By Wells Twombly $8.95­
WAKE UP THE ECHOES THE GLORY OF NOTRE DAME 

American Music" by the National 
Music Council. the Indiana Music 
Educators Association and Exxon. 
It was one of the first bands to 
include pageantry, precision drill, 
and picture formations during pre­
game and half time performances. 
Use of walkie-talkies and amplified 
instruments, plus the one-headed 
marching drum and the hi-stepper drum carry, substantiated Notre Dame's Band as a leader in its field. 
The band not only plays at home football games, but also away games, civic functions, dedications and parades. With the exception of the armed services Notre Dame's Band has probably performed before more presidents and popes than any other band around. 
The "Notre Dame Victory since then has been played at a variety of events, including White House parties. Written by John and Michael Shea, the melody has been o·ne of the most copied and paraphrased college songs of all time. 

This year's band with 186 mem­bers is the largest in its history. In 1970, the Notre Dame Band, for the first time, admitted women from St. Mary's College. After 1972, the number of women in the band increased with the start of coeduca­tion. 
The band will perform at the pep rally in Stepan Center tonight at 7 pm as well as in front of the Administration building tomorrow at 12:15 pm. The Saturday performance will consist of all the music to be played at halftime of 
Cross-cultural view shown 
As part of the American Scene lecture series Ernst von Rahl, anthropoligist, presented a cross cultural look at America from an anthropological prospective. 
He explained that before an anthropoligist begins such a cross cultural comparison he must first have an understanding of that culture as a "whole picture." Then he becomes more specific and studies the various aspects that comprise this picture. Von Rahl also stressed the imp~;>rtance of keeping an open mind in this kind of research in order to leave our cultural framework behind and better understand other cultures. 
Von Rahl then compared Amer­ican culture with that of Masai of East Africa, the Kung bushman of the Kalahari Desert, Lebanon and 
Saturday  5:15p.m.  Fr. Robert Griffin, CSC.  
Sunday  9;30 a.m.  Fr. Edward O'Connor, CSC.  
10:45 a.m.  Fr. Edward Malloy, CSC.  
12:15 p.m.  Fr. William Toohey, CSC  

vespers 7:15p.m. Fr. Edward Malloy, esc. in the Lady Chapel 
his own French culture. The areas of comparison were in technology, education, age language and dail~· substance of these cultures. 
From a technological stand point he stressed the disposability of items in the American culture, pointing out that in Lebanon pur­chasing goods of a disposable nature is a sign of social status. 
Von Rahl asked questions of the audience throughout his lecture in an attempt to raise a sense of consciousness among them con­cerning the diversity in other cultures. His last question of the evening centered on fast food establishments. Von Rahl asked, "Why do some people eat in their cars and some people eat inside?" The question remained unanswer­able. 
• 


NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL By Ken Rappoport $8.95 

THE FIGHTING IRISH 
NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL THROUGH THE YEARS By Gildea· $12.95 







GREA'f BOOKS ... GREAT GIFT IDEAS! 
THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
A POTRAIT OF ITS HISTORY AND CAMPUS­
Hardba_c:X $25.00 BY THOMAS J. SCHLERETH Paperbac:X $7.95 
22 GREAT STORIES OF NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL Edited by Fred Katz $_1.95 
A COACH'S WORLD  KNUTE ROCKNE  
By Digger' Phelps  YOUNG ATHLETE By Guernsey fWI Alpey, Jr.  · S2.95  
.  ROCKNE  
_NOTRE DAME IDOL COACHING GENIUS,·  
·  CELEBR'ITY--A LEGEND REVISitt:D 'J  
By Bnmdfield  

NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE .2n-d FLOOR 
'· 

Friday, September 30, 1977 the observer 
Effort to stop· Senate deadlock apparently fails 

Washington [AP]-The ~Senate's 
effort to snap a two week deadlock , on natural gas pricing apparently collapsed last night and prepara­tions began for a possible second 
all-night session. 
After voting to begin considering 
a major compromise on whether to 
lift federal price controls on natural 
gas, the Senate bogged down in 
bitter parliamentary bickering. 
Both opponents and proponents 
of gas deregulation took actions 
blocking votes on the compromise, 
dashing hopes of Senate leaders 
that the intensive two-day effort 
had succeeded. 
Senate employees wheeled in 
cots to rooms off the Senate floor in 
preparation for a possible second 
all-night session in three days. 
The final vote on the critical 
natural gas issue is expected to be 
extremely close. 
"I'm not going to be part of a steamroller and I'm not going to let it roll over me," said Sen. Edmund 
S. Muskie (D-Maine) decrying methods used to prevent further filibusters. 
Muskie referred to efforts by Sen. Russell Long (D-La.) a firm supporter of deregulation, to get assurance from two liberal Demo­cratic senators that they would not repeat a filibuster which kept the Senate in session for 37 hours Tuesday and Wednesday. 
But Sens. Howard Metzenbaum of Ohio and James Abourezk of South Dakota refused, Long said. And· then he invoked a parliamen­tary tactic designed to dispose of more than 400 amendments intro­duced by filibuster leaders. 
The tactic worked because the Senate earlier had approved by voice vote a parliamentary maneu­ver intended to move the natural gas issue closer to a vote. 
"I want to arrive at a situation where either both sides have the right to filibuster or neither side has the right to filibuster," Long said heatedly. 
He said he was willing to fight either "by the rules of the Marquis of Queensbury or the rules of tooth and nail," but that both sides should play by the same rules. 
The first critical test vote was expected to come on a deregulation plan urged by Sens. Lloyd Bentsen (D-Tex.) and James B. Pearson (R-Kan.). 
If that should fail, the Senate would move to a compromise worked out by Majority Leader Robert C. Byrd and Sen. Henry M. Jackson (D-Wash.), chairman of the Senate Energy Committee. 
Long attempted to head off the 
Dillon starts Freshman Function 

by Dave Rumbach Senior Staff Reporter 
Approximately 100 Dillon freshman ran from hall to hall last night invoking students to attend Dillon Hall's annual football pep rally, in what may be Notre Dame's newest tradition--The Freshman Function. 
The Freshman Function replaces the Dillon Run, which was out­lawed last year after it resulted in extensive damage to several resi­dence halls and personal injury to some of the participants. Last night's "Function" went without major incident despite harrassment from several men's halls. 
Like the Dillon Run, the Freshman Function is an effort to bolster attendance to Dillon's annual pep rally in which freshmen run from hall to hall shouting for students to "get the hell up." Unlike the Dillon Run students participating in the Freshmen Funciton may not enter the halls. 
The Freshman Function grew out of talks between Dean Roemer and Dillon Hall president Bob Hutchin­son. According to Hutchinson, 
they  agreed  that  the  freshmen  
should stay  out  of the  dorms  to  
avoid trouble.  

"The freshmen handled them­selves very well," Hutchinson said, referring to the Dillonites refusal to be "baited" last nigt. "I hope this will be the start of a new tradi­tion" he added. 
Dillon frosh encoutered harras­sment at Sorin when residents of that hall gathered on their porch and shouted challenges to the Dillonites.The freshmen also found trouble at Keenan and Stanford where, according to Dillon fresh­man Mike Burke, students attempted to rope in the Dillon men and throw buckets of urine on them from the roof. 
The pep rally following the Function attracted approximately 700 people and featured Irish quarterback Joe Montana, line­backer Doug Becker, and center Dave Huffman. 
possibility of a second Abourezk­Metzenbaum filibuster by deman­ding quick voice votes on more than 400 amendments filed under the names of the two liberal Democra­tic senators. 
They had waged a "filibuster by amendment," calling up amend­ment after amendment and de­manding tedious and timetaking roll call votes on each one. 
Aides to Bentsen, a leading advocate for ending all federal controls on natural gas prices, conceded that the vote on the new compromh;e would be close. "There are 8 or 10 fence sitters we're watching very closely," said one. 
Byrd called a series of recesses during the day, apparently to allow more time for backers of the compromise to persuade other senators to support the pact. 
He and Jackson hoped to pick up the votes of a handful of senators known to be wavering on whether 23 years of federal controls on natural gas should be ended. 
Several hours before the vote, Abourezk and Metzenbaum an­nounced they would support the Jackson compromise. 
"I don't approve of it," Matzen­baum said, "but it's better than 

deregulation.'' 
Despite administration .support of the compromise, President Car­ter indicated yesterday in a nation-· ally televised news conference that he is not giving up the battle for his plan, which would retain price controls at a lower level than the compromise bill. 
The Senate approved deregula­tion of natural gas prices two years ago but the House refused to go along, thereby leaving the federal price controls in force. 
Under the compromise plan, the currect $1.46 lid on natural gas prices would rise to $2.03 immedi­ately and would rise even higher if inflation continues. Carter had originally proposed a $1.75 price ceiling. 
The House has approved Car­ter's $1.75 price. Differences between the House and Senate bills will have to be worked out by a House-Senate conference commit­tee. 
The compromise also would allow producers to charge the higher price for newly-discovered gas pumped from a well drilled after last Jan. 1, whether it comes , from an old or a new reservoir. 

FRANKS PLACE Restaurant & Lounge 327 W. Marion St. South Bend , Ind. Phone 232-2277 ·seer Wine Liquor Serving lunch, etc. 11 am to 2 pm 


5 :00 to 12 :00 six a week 
Little Steak House on the Prairie 
Prairie Steak House Corner of Prairie & Olive 
Friday ·and Saturday T -Bone Steak Dinner for Two $7.50 Endless Salad 
· Friday -Fish Dinner $1.89 
CDoc.'Pierce'• 3JZI»>I 
Special ND Football Sat. 

10:00-2:00pm 
120 N. Main Michawaka RES. 255-7737 





THE CARRIAGE HOUSE 
AD 1851 
Wed thru Sat 5:00-9:30 
Sunday 10:30-4:00 
Continental Cuisine 
Wine List 
Cocktails 



1reservations accepted 272-9220 

Friday, September 30, 19n 

-,--------------· 
Varsity season presents fund raising opportunity 

by Mark Rut 

For Notre Dame organiza­tions registered through the Student Activities office, the varsity season is a time to commence fund raising in the form of maney making booths on campus during home foot­ball weekends. Booth activity is coordinated by the Activities office, located on the first floor of LaFortune, and interested groups must meet with them one week before a game to register and to review Univer­sity and health regulations. 
Twelve or thirteen sites around the quads will be occupied by the Volunteer services, halls, classes. and different clubs. According to the Student Activities office groups can make between $40-$400 on any given week­end, depending on their publi­city. ambition and salesman­ship. The organizations run­ning the booths are respon-...._ sible for all ordering, account---•y~ ing, and labor; they also receive all the profit. 
Therese Bauer, office secre­tary, said no one can keep their booth all season since Student Activities is very con­cientious about giving every­one a chance. "We try to give every registered organization -...11111... that comes to us a location for ..._,...­a booth at least once," she added. 
Although the concession rights inside the stadium do not belong to the students, clubs find that selling candy, fruit, hot dogs, drinks, pen­nants and memorabilia on the quads each football weekend is .-. an excellent way to stay finan­cially afloat. As Tom "Bud-dab" Long, a Sorin Hall stand worker, put it, "Football weekends? Sure, everyone makes bucks on football week­ends." 
Seminar features alumna 
Mary Gail Carey, SMC '72, will be the featured speaker in the first of a series of informal discussions with recent graduate~ and recrui­ters. 
The seminar, co-sponsored by te CDC and the SMC Business Club, will be held this Monday at 7:30 pro in Room 246 Madeleva Hall. Carey will discuss her career as produc­tion manager for American Hospi­tal Supplies and answer uestions concerning job opportunities for women in business. As a former government major, Carey will explain the role of a liberal arts major in the business world. 
•'This program will be the best way for students to get first hand information about the job market," O'Neil commented, "especially from someone who has recently graduated from St. Mary's." 
· 
Dacca, Bangladesh [AP]· A band relaxed somewhat after negotia­
Japan Air Lines (JAI) said the gunmen asked that breakfast be delivered to the plane this mor­ning.
Asked whether this meant they were extending the deadline, the spokesman replied, "You might as well take it that way." 
Earlier yesterday, the gunmen had finally relented and ordered that food and toilet tissue be brought to the DC8. 
The JAI plane, commandeered Wednesday morning on the Bom­bay-Bangkok leg of a flight from Paris to Tokyo, sat in the stifling heat and humidity of Dacca's international airport. But gerera­tors reportedly had been hooked up to continue operating the air­conditioning system. 
The hijackers released the five hostages after being notified by the Japanese government it was wil­ling to meet their demands. 
Besides the pregnant Mrs. Kara­bian, they were identified as another American, K. Krueger, 31, who Mrs. Karabian said had been sitting next to her and fainted, and a family of three carrying Indian passports-G. Verghese, 35, his wife and their one-year-old son. 
ws Angeles Times identified Kurt Krueger as a resident of Granada Hills, Calif., and said the George VerghPse family resides in 
Glendora, Calif. 

of masked hijackers holding a Japanese jetliner full of hostages freed five passengers, ordered breakfast and seemed ready for a third day's siege today after the Japanese government asked for more time to meet their demands. 
Counting the five hijackers, 151 persons were reported still on the plane. 
One of those released early yesterday, former Hollywood ac­tress Carole Wells Karabian, said the terrorists were armed with ~uns and grenades and had been 
'terribly rough" at first but then 

notre dame student union & sunshine promotions 
presents 

Oktoberfest entertainment Lloyd's Wienerschnitzel Band entertained St. Mary's students yesterday evening at the dining hall with a collection of German Oktoberfest songs [photo by john Calcutt] 
Alanon to meet 
Saturday 

Alanon, an organization for friends and relatives of alcoholics, '"offers a way of life built on personal development and improvement,'' according to a member of the ~rouo. 
Alanon will meet tomorrow from 10 to 11 a.m. at Holy Cros~ House . on Darden Road. Any stuc' at who has a parent, relative or fri 1d with a drinking problem is i lted to attend the meeting. 
For more information, m.erested students should call #8804. 
~ ~ ""'~t 
SMC 
THEATRE O'Laughlin Auditorium 
A Comedy of Errors 
Shakespeare's merry masquerade. Odober7, 8, 13, 14,15 
ats:OO p.m. 
All seats $2.SO ($2 Std-Fac-Staff) Alone: 284-417 6 
tions begaq 
She said the hostages were denied food for the first 24 hours and were not even allowed to go the toilet. 
Those still on the plane besides 
the hijackers were 14 crew mem­
bers and 132 passengers, including 
10 other Americans. 
A spokesman for the Japanese cabinet said the government was trying to round up one of the hijackers' ransom demands in in New York-60,000 U.S. $100 bills, a total of $6 million. 
The other demand was for the release from Japanese jails of nine prisoners. "comrades," most of them known terrorists. The spokesman said the government was canvassing the prisoners, but two reportedly refused to accept the offer of freedom. 
After a cabinet meeting last night, the spokesman said the demands could not possibly be met before this afternoon. 
The hijackers, identified as members of the ultraleftist Japa­nese Red Army, have threatened to begin killing their hostages one by one, starting with California banker John Gabriel. unless the ransom money and the prisoners are deli­vered. 
They had set a deadline of midnight 2 p.m. EDT yesterday, but late yesterday a spokesman for 

SEASON TICKETS STILL AVAILABLE .................... 4 PLAYS $9 ($7 Std-Fac-Staff) 
All Seats Reserved 
Includes: COMEDY OF ERRORS, CAUCASIAN 
on sale now at the ACC box office & 
CHALK CIRCLE, TOUCH OF A POET, and THE 
the student union box office
MIKADO 
introducing 
The Norton Buffalo Stampede 
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 21 8:00PM Notre Dame ACC 
Tickets: $8.00, $7.00 
------~-----.......-------~-----­
Friday, September 30, 1977 
the observer 

,SMC coordinatOrs serve as link to 0-Cstudents 

by Marla Frigyesl 

In an effort to meet the needs of the expanding off-campus commu­nity, student coordinators Jinny Gerar, Gretchen Obringer, and Barb O'Neill will serve as the link between St. Mary's off-campus students and the college. Off campus students include perma­nent residents of South Bend and those renting apartments and houses for the school year. 
The coordinators were appointed last spring after a series of inter­views and screenings, and are presently under the supervision of Gail Ritchie of the Counseling Center. 
"Because the off-campus com­munity has grown, there is a need to make sure that off-campus students are still connected with the college," Gerard stated in a recent interview. 
Committee member O'Neill also commented on the need for a commtsston. ''So many students lose touch with campus activities. Why can't we do things together with our campus friends? There is a lot to be involved in, a lot to know that campus students know," said O'Neill. "Students just don't realize how much information is available to them on cafeteria doors and bulletin boards that off campus students miss. Our job is to meet their needs by getting overlooked information to them," she explain­ed. 
The two categories of informa­tion concerned are Academics and Student Affairs. This information 
Tenor to sing Dichterliebe 
Roger Scanlan, lyric tenor, will 
present a recital of Robert Schu­
mann's Dichterlicbe on this Sunday 
at 3 pm in the Little Theatre of 
Moreau Hall at St. Mary's College. 
His program will include four 
French songs set to music by 
Gabriel Faure. Three Songs from 
Ecclesiastes bv Daniel Pinkham. 
and Folk Song Arrangements by 
Benjamin Britten. 
Scanlan. an associate professor 
at the Chicago Musical College of 
Roo!>evelt lJ niversity, received his 
doctorate from Northwestern Uni­
versity. During recent summers he 
has sung opera and lieder at the 
Yale Summer Festival of Music and 
in the Chamber Choir of the Aspen 
Music Festival. His column enti­
tled "Spotlight on Contemporary 
American Composers" has been 
carried as a regular feature of The 
NATS (National Association of 
Teachers of Singing) Bulletin since 
1974. 
During 1975 and 1976 Scanlan 
presented a program entitled 
"From the Revolution to the Pre­
sent-An American Recital," which 
traced the development of the 
American art song through its 
various transformations from the 
Revolutionary era to the present 
time in honor of the nation's · bicentennial celebration. 
Scanlan will be accompanied at 
the piano by his wife, Mary Scanlan 
who received her bachelor and 
master of music degrees from the 
University of Wisconsin and the 
University of Iowa, respectively. 
Off-campus IDs 
now available 
All off-campus students without meal plans whose temporary IDs expired 9-23-77 may exchange them for permanent ones. Stu­dents should bring their old IDs to the Office of the Registrar in Room 215 of the Administration Building. 
···t;eri)sydieJ7o~"Moo-o:-· 
BEER 
BUST 

.....?.Q...!!S!.oo~
JJ!i~2l'-~~!--~_t--~-J
I 
I 
II 
I 

I 
I• 
I 
I
I 
I 
I 
I 

Dome I 
I 

is obtained from department heads, class presidents, and orga­nizations such as the Social Com­mission. During the summer, the coordinators wrote to these various groups and persons to introduce themselves and make them aware of their potential service to off campus students. "The success of our organization depends on the help of these groups and the interest of the students," O'Neill emphasized. 
Goals to be met this year include a systematic way of dealing with off-campus student needs, the distribution of information, and the development of unity among the off-campus people, through social events. 
Newsletters and bulletin board notices in the Madeleva student 
lounge and LeMans Hall are two of 
the current methods of getting •oPEN MON SAT • 
· 1 : • 9 11 Pille 
held at the clubhouse, was a successful way of welcoming the students back. The picnic gave the coordinators the opportunity to get the students involved in the off-campus program, and thus to understand their needs. ' 
"It gave us the opportunity to meet and know them and for them to get to know their neighbors. We hope it will become an annual event," O'Neill stated. 
Plans are in the making for social events such as a Georgia Tech tailgater, Happy Hours, a holiday formal, and a Mardi Gras booth. A T-shirt contest, suggested by an off-campus student, is currently in progress. The coordinators are open to suggestions and are willing to work with the students to carry them out within the alloted budget. 
"The success of these social activities depends largely on stu­dent input and interest,' O'Neill emphasized. "Off-campus life has unlimited advantages, and to over­come any problems due to lack of communication is our main objec­tive. We're still experimenting with this brand new idea of off-campus coordination so it's difficult to get our ideas across," O'Neill explained. 
"We urge hall presidents and class presidents to keep us infor­med. This information together with student input and interest will help make it a success," Gerard concluded. 

e • • • •· • • • • • • •·• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 
6 ·-TJMM PARTY STORE • 
• e 
She teaches studio and Class piano at Thornton Community College, South Holland, Illinois. 
At 8 p.m. on the evening of the recital. Mr. Scanlan will conduct a vocal workshop in the Little Theatre. Both events are open to the public without charge. 

information to the off-campus stu-. • 
ae1~sthe beginning orthe semester : important information concerning •
football tickets and senior p!ctures • was relayed through mailboxes e located in the Madeleva student • lounge, signs in apartment build-11 
ings and on-campus locations, and • 
word-of-mouth. e 
@t • 

SUNDAY 12 noon -1I pm , :
BEER SALE • 
. • 
HIGAN •• 

3114 S. II ST • NILES, MJC • 
1 Bloc'·k North of state line on U.S. 31 •., 
A picnic for off-campus students, • e • e e • • e e • e • • • • .• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 
Fill in the blank spaces to complete the words, each containing the letters "USE' The clues may, or may not, help you. 
1. USE ____ 
If it's this, you don't need it. 
2.--USE-
This will get you upset.

a. _____ USE 
Don't get any wrong ideas. 

4.-USE ____ 
There is a tail to this one. 
s. ___ usE 
Not too quick to catch on. · 



When there's a challenge, quality makes the difference . 
We hope you have some fun with the challenge. Pabst Blue Ribbon is the Number 1 beer in Milwaukee, beer capital of the world. 
That's why we'd like to offer you another challenge -the Pabst challenge. Taste and compare Pabst Blue Ribbon to any other premium beer. You'll like Pabst because Blue Ribbon quality means the best-tasting beer you can get. Since 1844 italways has. 
PABST. Since 1844. The quality has always come through. 
PABST BREWING COMPANY, Milwaukee, Wis., Peoria Heights, Ill., Newark, N.J., los Angeles, C~f., Pabst, Georgia 3Snl80 ·g 3~V13Sn:l "t> 3Sn8VSIO .E ~3SnVN ·;: SS313Sn I :JeMsuy 
~----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------·----------~~ 
·-----------------~ 



-----------------------------------~--~~ 
p-* The Observer 
an independent student newspaper 
serving notre dame and st. mary's 
The Observer is published by students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions and letters ·are the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and letters are encouraged to promote the free expression of varying 
opinions on campus.  
Business Manager Advertising Manager Production Manager  Sue Quigley Steve Bonomo Karen Chiames  BoxQ Notre Dame Ind. 46556  

Friday, September 30, 1977 
Fair Policy For SU Tix 
Student Union ticket distribution prac­tices have long been the source of controversy on campus. Problems have arisen with ticket lines, ticket volume, ticket thefts, and now preferential tickets for Student Union personnel. This is not a new issue; four years ago a secret preferential ticket policy resulted in the impeachment of a Student Union Director (charges were later dropped) and the establishment of a Board of Student Union-Student Government Directors. Nevertheless, we now face the same questions that were raised in 1973. 
There are actually two questions involv­ed in the Student Union ticket issue: 1. Are student workers entitled to preferen­tial treatment in ticket distribution in return for the time they volunteer in Student Union? 2. If so, what restrictions should be placed on this practice? 
The answer to the first question is an unequivocal "yes." Students who volun­teer their time and jeopardize their grade-points to plan and organize con·­certs, speakers, social events, services, etc. for the benefit of the student body deserve some recognition and reward for their efforts. The most appropriate type of reward is to allow these volunteers to enjoy the results of their planning and hard work. At times this involves guaranteeing members access to tickets for events with limited admission. 
Obviously this type of system is subject to abuse unless governed by a reasonable set of restrictions. Foremost among these would be the limiting of preferential treatment to events that are planned and sponsored by the Student Union. There­fore, although Homecoming as a whole is a Student Union event. the USC football game is not. One might argue that, since the football tickets are included in the Homecoming package, they should be considered "fair game" for Student Union personnel. Two things argue against this: First is the fact that Student Union Director Tom Gryp split up the original Homecoming packages to prevent SU personnel from receiving concert and dance tickets beyond the complimentary sets to which they were already entitled. Secondly, following such a line of reason­ing, one could legitimately conclude that members of the football team (who are already entitled to a limited number of 
Roman Hero 
Ro/IIIIIJ HER.o> 


I HAb TO ~AJ 
'hi'~ LATe. ... 

FLI&IfTS 0#1'
f+r:A/11). 

WElL ftd:. rr'~ "fH/5 klfY ... 
6f~ -rHS
I HA~ 70 ~ vP AN•~#J 16 
81Ju.J:MA16
Foi Perc.. (f}IIIE Jb'IE, 
bow.N BllfAI<~. hlfl.l( Cbw, sJ.PP THE. 1106!>. ~ CI-IICKBJS .. • 
..,,... 
I 

-f-I~""'QI.
.. 

preferential game tickets) should receive 
preferential tickets for the Homecoming 
concert and dance! 
It is a fact of Notre Dame football that 
the demand for tickets is always in great 
excess of the number available. The 
Student Union preferential ticket policy, as 
it recently functioned, allowed SU person­
nel to purchase the football tickets from 11 
Homecoming packages without getting the 
tickets to the concert and dance. Since the 
Student Union workers had no more to do 
with the scheduling and playing of the 
football game than any other students, 
they should not have received preferential 
treatment. 

A second legitimate restriction on 
preferential ticket practices would limit the 
number of tickets available to each SU 
member to one set. This would allow the 
worker and a date or friend to attend each 
concert or other ticketed event. Any 
tickets beyond these two would probably 
be used by friends, roommates, etc. who 
again had no more to do with the planning 
and organizing of the event than the 
average student. 

Thirdly, the Student Union Board of Directors should make a conscientious effort to limit the number of preferential tickets available for any one event. A round-robin system would allow each Student Union worker to attend several of the restricted events without unfairly depriving other students of the opportunity to buy tickets. In the case of an event that is drastically limited to begin with--for example, the Bruce Springsteen concert last year--preferential tickets should be available only to those Student Union members who are responsible for that particular event. 
It is too late to rectify the Homecoming situation this year, but the Student Union Board of Directors should prepare and present a specific preferential ticket policy that would govern its practice for the remainder of the year. It is possible, and desirable, to recognize and reward the efforts of the Student Union workers through a fair and reasonable ticket policy. 
But the goal of any SU project in the first place is to provide the student body as a whole with. entertainment, information, services, etc. It is up to the Student Union Board of Directors to develop a policy that reconciles these two principles. 
EDITORIAL BOARD 
Marti Hogan Editor-in-Chief Martha Fanning Managing Editor Bob Brink Asst. Managing Ed Kathy Mills Executive Editor Maureen Flynn Editorial Editor Barb Breitenstein Exec. News Editor Jean Powley St. Mary's Editor Katie Kerwin News Editor Barb Langhenry News Editor Paul Stevenson Sports Editor Pat Cole Special Projects Ed. David O'Keefe Features Editor 
Copy Editor Joan Fremeau Photo Editor Leo Hanse11 
P.O. Box Q 
Funds restored through your efforts 
Dear Editor: 
This is an open letter to the 
students of Notre Dame and St. 
Mary's: 
Yesterday Gov. Bowen issued a 
statement assuring citizens of In­
diana that funds for the Mental 
Health Department would be rein­
stated. How can we thank you for 
your concern and support? Probab­
ly the best way would be to tell you 
how you helped. 
Through the efforts of the Stu­dent Governments and The Obser­ver, the entire student body was informed of the situation and asked to act upon it. Concerned students who attended the press conference and/or the meeting at Logan Tuesday night showed the South Bend community that the ND/SMC community was in support of reinstatement offunds. Finally, on a statewide basis, the petitions that students signed in the dining halls showed Gov. Bowen that our community wanted a change. Over half of both student bodies signed these petitions! 
So, thank you, thank you for your interest and help! There are going to be a lot of appreciative children and adults at Rec this Saturday now that our program is not going to be cut. Thanks again and remember we're only a block away. 
Jeanne Conboy 
Art Koebel 
Co-Chairmen of the ND/SMC 
CouncU for the Retarded 
Interest, respect for television, film 
Dear Editor: 
I just wanted to make a gripe that has nothing to do about the recent Mississippi game or the injustices of the J-board. It has to do with Notre Dame's inadequate curric­ulum in the fine and performing arts. Specifically. while there is money and space allocated for the socially accepted arts, such as painting, sculpture, and dramatics there is a lack of interest in developing any programs dealing with film and television production. 
It is true that many people have little interest or respect for the audiovisual arts, but this does not make it any less important to the student. Courses in film and television are not necessarily a haven for those who are just trying to get some easy credits. To say you ·get out what you put into something couldn't be any more true or relevant. The courses and curriculum could be as serious and important as the students and teachers are willing to make them. 
In today's society film and television are becoming just as important an artistic form of ex-
by Pot Byrnes 


pression as are any of the other arts. There are courses offered at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's that deal with communications, but I don't feel they are as comprehen­sive as they could be. It would be very interesting to find out what other students and faculty mem­bers have to say about this subject that I would like to see become a part of Notre Dame's course offer­ings. 
Michael J. Stevenson 

.,..,..,.,.,,._,....,._.,.,._~_,_...,~, 

The heresy of socialism 
Dear Editor: 
Our Ole Miss Rebels are trying 
to tell Fr. Hesburgh something, or, 
perhaps, remind him of something 
that he has forgotten. The Vatican 
was the only European power that 
recognized the Confederacy during 
the War of Northern Aggression. 
As a matter of fact, Pope Pius IX 
wrote to Jefferson Davis, who, 
incidentally, was educated by the 
Dominicans, and stated that the 
war was nothing more than the 
continuation of the French Revolu­
tion, a case of class warfare. The 
slavery issue, and the union issue 
were cover-ups of the real cause. 
The Southerners were, at that time, preparing to free the slaves. As for the union issue, how could that have been a sincere cause? Had we not severed ourselves from the mother country less than a hundred years before this bloody war? And is Washington not ready to "liberate" every "tuppence h'penny" country that demands ''independence''? 
In this century, the Modernist nuns and clergy have launched another war of northern aggression against the South. They call it "Civil Rights," but that is only another disguise for the heresy of socialism which is also nothing more than the egalitarianism of the French Revolution. 
Patricia Kelly Fawcett Oxford, Mississippi 

We're all on the same team 
Dear Editor: 
I am one of the Dillonites who participated in the pep rally march on Thursday night, and I would like to commend the conduct of 95 percent of the people involved. Our goal was to bring people to the pep rally, and also to "wake up the echoes," so that Michigan State will be greeted properly on Satur­day. During our march, we were especially impressed by the "stim­ulating'' greeting afforded us by Stanford and Keenan, two of the more spirited halls on campus. I am proud of the fact that the destruction which occurred on pre­vious marches was not repeated, and I hope that on Saturday we will realize the we're all on the same team, with the result being a united effort against Michigan State. 
BWGrlfOD 



-----------------------------------------------------------------------F-r-id-a-y,_S_e_p-te-m~b-e_r_3o-·,-1-9-77-----------~t-h~e--o__b_s~e·rv~e-r-----9.-----~1 
seriously, folks!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~~~~~~~~~F.~;-~-~~~~~~
Molari by Michael Molinelli 
The President's Best Friend 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii~art buchwald 
WASHINGTON--The thing that Since "The President's Best something about the peanut bus­struck me as President Carter Friend" would be on the White iness. 
announced Bert Lance's resigna­House staff, he would ,not need It wouldn't be hard to find such a tion last week was when he said Senate confirmation. And, while person to fill the job. I know that he was losing his best friend. he would be expected to maintain thousands of people who would like Everyone at the White House the high moral standards Mr. to be the President's best friend. 
admits that Bert Lance had a Carter has set for all his people, he Many of them could be persuaded special rapport with the President, would not have to dispose of his to come to Washington, at great and that he was the only person stock or reveal his personal fi­sacrifice to themselves, for the who could tell Mr. Carter when he nances to the public. opportunity to chew the fat with was wrong or off the track. This He would have to answer to no Mr. Carter whenever he needed role in the White House is not to be one on The Hill as to what he did someone to talk to. underestimated. before he came into the Adminis­While the White House could set 
It is so important that I believe tration, nor would he have to reveal up a "Best Friend Search Commit­before we find a new head of the how much money he had in the tee," the final decision would be OMB, we must find President bank, or owed banks, whichever left solely to the President after his Carter a new best friend. the case might be. staff presented him with a list of 
Neither the FBI nor the IRS likely candidates. 
This country can afford to go would have to be consulted as to
along without somebody managing To safeguard himself against
whether he was qualified to be
its budget, but it cannot allow the another Lance affair, I believe that, 
"The President's Best Friend,"
President of the United States to sit besides appointing his "Best
because only a President would
in the White House without a best Friend," Mr. Carter should also
know that. 
friend for one more day than is have the authority to designate a
I think that the search for a new
absolutely necessary. "Deputy Best Friend." Then if
best friend for the President should 
I would go one step further and anything happens to his best
begin immediately. 
new the White friend, the President would have
say a position in It is my opnion that, from what
House should be created entitled, we President Carter, another one to fall back on.
know about
"The President's Best Friend." Presidents Kennedy and John­
we should start looking for some­
The person filling the position one comes from the son had many best friends. Nixon
who South,
would have as his only function to had only one--Bebe Rebozo. At
preferably a small town in Georg\a. 
be Mr. Carter's confidant and the moment President Carter has
He doesn't necessarily have to be a 
bosom buddy. none. Unless this situation is
banker, but he should be a success­
rectified immediately, the country
This would avoid any conflict of ful businessman. He must have an 
could come to a standstill.
interest with another job in the impeccable family relationship, be 
Administration. More importantly, be a nondrinker and a good While the search is on I am the person holding it would not storyteller. He should be gregar­sending President Carter a copy of have to undergo the scrutiny and ious, while at the same time firm "How To Be Your Own Best heat that Mr. Lance was subjected when he believes Mr. Carter is Friend." It isn't the same as to. because he also was head of the wrong. He should also be able to having Bert Lance, but hopefully it Office of Management and Budget. play tennis and, softball and know will fill the gap. 
This is a direct reply to Rick Dame's (in the Midwest. Lansing Kanser's column printed here in and Ann Arbor, in Michigan)I don't last Thurday's Observer. reckon you could, seeing as bars in 
Okay, Kanser. Enough bull-these towns have either superior slinging, enough of your self -surroundings or superior prices righteous make-a-buck double talk. and specials. Granted, some of 
You've had your chance to clear these bars are bigger operations the air -and you've done nothing than the Library and they can but clutter it with more ambiguity afford these lux­and evasive balderdash. It is now cries, but many are scroungy, time for serious re-consideration of small drinking holes (much like the a few of your crucial points. I will 'Brary) that haven't forgotten the 
try to be concise. art of offering gallon pitchers for a Point One: First I must say that I dollar at least once a week. When 
do appreciate and sympathize with you stack it up, the Library isn't too your oft-related position with res­competitive at all --except, of pect to the police and surrounding course, with Nickie's 
neighborhood. However, I have Point Three: You concluded your some difficulty with your interpre­article wtth the condescendin,g tation of the police officer's main inauisition "How boring would tt function in your area. You say that be if you had no choices?" 
these main functions are to"enforce First, may I remind you of your 
litter and noise ordinances.'' But o_pening statement and tts ramifica­you fail to mention the coppers' tions. You said, "It is unfortunate propensity for attempting to en­that this article must finally be force the Indiana Laws concerning written." I'm sure you are aware 
the use of alcohol by minors, that the misfortune in this situation without whom your bar would have has ultimately fallen upon your little chance of surviving. Maybe head. You're the one with the
Allow Us a Voice 
you just forgot about this little empty bar. I was under the detail in your eagerness to convince impression that you realized this 
us that the police mean us no until I read the paragraphs of bar harm at all, right? history and the remark that closed Point Two: A crucial issue here your article. You seem to imply
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii_.mike 
szaflarski 
is the rise in beer prices in both that, in reality, it is we the The current controversy over the meetings with Dean Roemer and University. We cannot, under any your bar and Nickies (coincidence students who are the unfortunate 
proposed change in the judicial can honestly say that he is a fair, circumstances, allow a democratic no doubt). You claim that "if you ones, unfortunate in our blindness board process is one that cannot be just man. With this in mind I still evaluate price and fluid ounces to your kindly benevolence. Very
operation that represents all indi­
taken lightly by Notre Dame stu-must object to the oversight that it served, you will find the Library noble, but you can have your
viduals of the University -faculty,
dents. Notre Dame has to recog-is we, the students of Notre Dame, students to be and Nickie's to be tQtally competi­"King Nickie & the Barowners of
administration, ­
nize its students must have a voice who must abide by the University tive." "Competitive" ts a vague the Round Table'' bar history.
eliminated in favor of one where all 
word. If by chance you mean that Nickie's altruism impresses hellin this community. The elimination regulations. No one has a better the power lies in the hands of one you can get more at the Library out of me, but somehow I can'tof the students from the judicial insight into the problems of being a faction. than you can at Corby's or Brid­envision that "courage and fore­
system cannot be passed off as a Notre Dame student than we do, sight" virtues
gids, you're mistaken. Go into --such noble -­
Apathy on the students' part, as
step to save fellow students from and it is we who can help contribute Corb's three or were what inspired Nickie to boldly
some night with

Fr. Hesburgh charges, cannot be
the dirty work of University of-an air of objectivity to a board four dollars (often the amount an lead the students past the city mob
assessed on the basis of attendence 
fenses. To say "it is a mistake to decision. We cannot expect a impoverished college student takes and back to the campus area. 
at a voluntary meeting. Next
ask one student to throw another board composed of strictly faculty with him for a night at the bars) think it had something more to do 
month; the Board of Trustees will with a virtue called ''financial
out of school" as Father Hesburgh and administration members to see and see how much beer you can get
be presented with a motion to security.''
was quoted in the Sept. 20, 1977 our point of view on any offence. -a lot more than at the Library. It's 
eliminate the vital position of simple arithmetic. And the same So keep your bar, Kanser. AndObserver, is to dwell only on the We the students are not chit­for Bridgid's, I'm afraid. Also, Nickie, you your empty building.
negative aspects of the process dren, and we have a point of view students on the judicial board. Are please consider this: Students, or The fact is that we do have other itself. that is distinctive and independent we to have no say whatsoever? 
Just about anybody for that matter, choices. Off-campus parties have 
Stress should be put on the of the faculty and administration. Please, let us have a word in this don't normally think in terms of been excellent, Corb's is full most fairness and objectivity of the The voice of the students must be policy change that will so greatly ounces of beer --they think in nights, the Senior Bar is reportedly board. How can a student who heard. In fact, we have a right to effect all of us. Give us an terms of beers, period. That is, a hot (I've never been there), and faces the proposed board expect a be heard in any University opera­opportunity to show our opposition unless the beer contains an unu· of course there are lots more things board ruled by the Dean of Stu-tion. The judicial board is strictly a to this directive, either through a sually low amount of the brew, to do both on and off-campus. So 
which isn't the case with either keep your cans and your pt·tces and 
dents to fairly deal with his punitive operation, and when an student directed vote, or Town
a Corby's or Bridgid's. your police threat and your gener­
offenses? I do not mean to imply offender is brought before it, the Meeting. Unless we are allowed a to vague It's not at all like we
Returning the "com­ous nobility.
that Dean Roemer will take on the decision rendered will be one that voice, Notre Dame will take a step petitive,'' I would like to know if can't do wtthout them. And don't 
role of''commandant'' and seal the could easily effect the rest of his or backwards into the past, one that you consider your prices at afl worry about the students down­fate of students without dealing her life. There must be a will eliminate one of the most competitive wtth bars in other gradmg the other bars in your area 
with each on a fair, individual sympathetic faction integrated into important rights granted the major college towns that have a football --we won't. After all, we gotta basis. I myself have had extended such an important branch of the faction on campus, the students. atmosphe_re comparitive with Notre drink in them, don't we? 
op1n1on 

Reply to Kanser 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii... bryan gruley 

--------' 
10 the observer Friday, September 30, 1977 
Amind reader at St. Mary's 
Maureen Sajbel 
It is awkward to interview someone who knows what you are thinking and writing as you interview them. They know more about the interviewer than the interviewer knows about them after only talking for a short period of time. Gil Eagles is such a person, a hypnotist and psychic who is sensitive to non·physical forces and the inner workings of the mind. Eagles is a young. friendly man, eager to share his unusual abilities and knowledge of the psychic sciences. 
He grew up in Tanganyika, East Africa and first realized that he was different from others at the age of thirteen. He went to a boarding school and resented his class­mates telling him he had psychic abilities. "I thought I was a scapegoat," he recalled. "I didn't think I had ESP. I was doing things unusual to them, but natural to me." Eagles thought, for example, that it was normal to k:;ow what was around the corner befor..: he turned it. He remember­ed one typical incident in which a music teacher was late for school and he told everyone that she had a flat tire. There were no phones and everyone was amazed when they found out he was right. 
He left for the United States in 1960 and, 
at that time, did not want to know anything 
about his psychic talents. "I wanted to be 
normal and play soccer and cricket," he 
explained. He worked in a snack bar and a 
factory, not wishing to develop his extra 
sensory abilities. 
One day he and a friend went to see a show by a mind reader in the basement of a church in Grenwich Village. The perform­er blindfolded himself and told people what objects they were holding in their hands. "I told my friend I could do that and he didn't believe me. Later he blindfolded me and I asked him to pick something up. When I told him what it was, and I was right, it scared me more than him. I was right much more often than not." 
Eagles began to exercise his abilities and performed for friends at parties. "At that time Krcskin had a television show and Jeanne Dixon and ESP were popular. What was uncomfortable in Africa was very comfortable here. I got attention." 
After a few years of only using the ESP for fun, a theatrical agent discovered his abilities and he now travels ten months out of the year appearing at campuses and for organizations all over the United States. 
Eagles explained his abilities as a psychic as "a development most people have it they choose to. It's like running. If you get out and practice you can develop it. 
You could train yourself to run a four minute mile. My abilities are natural, very natural." 
"You can't really read a mind because there's no such thing as a mind. The thoughts in your head are pictures and I can duplicate those pictures in my head. How it's done, I don't know." Eagles does not make predictions and explained that he believed that "nobody else has the ability to make predictions. They can be likely predictions, but can't be certain." 
Skeptics don't seem to bother him. In fact, they are an essential part of his audience. ''They make me successful,'' he smiled. "If everybody believed, then nobody would come to watch. The 
skeptics are keeping me in business.'' 
After twelve years of experience, Eagles 
stated that everything works, or at least 
"appears to work." 
Eagles appeared last night at the St. 
Mary's Angela Athletic Facility before a 
crowd of about 400. The props were simple 
-a microphone, 12 chairs and a table. 
The first half of the show included tests 
of Eagles' uncanny extra sensory percep­
tion. The audience grew silent as Eagles 
told one skeptic that he knew how much 
change he had and the young man found 
precisely the amount Eagles predicted in 
his pocket. He then wrote a number on a 
piece of paper, hid it from the audience and 
asked a volunteer to choose any number 
from one to one hundred; the number 
chosen was the same as the one on the 
paper. 
After being convincingly blindfolded by two volunteers, Eagles repeatedly amazed the audience as he told what objects they were holding, what the serial number was on a volunteer's dollar bill and words written on a slate shown only to the audience. He accurately described aud­ience members' physical appearances and answered questions written on sheets of paper without ever removing the blindfold. 
He picked the sheets of paper randomly from a large glass bowl and recited names, phone numbers and social security num­bers of St. Mary's and Notre Dame students. 
The second half of the program centered on the topic of hypnotism. "What is it?" he asked. "It is not a thing, it is something you do; it is an exercise comparable to yoga or meditation. Any normal person can be hypnotized." He added, however, that "no one can be hypnotized against his or her own will. Some one who is intelligent, alert and has a vivid imagina­tion can be hypnotized easily." 
Eagles claims ten years of experience in clinical hypnotherapy and conducts semi­nars on the medical uses of hypnosis for doctors and therapists. He explained that hypnosis was a ''pretending game with your mind" and that it was controlled by the power of suggestion. "Nothing is impossible in life except what you think is impossible," he asserted. "If you believe in the pictures in your mind, they can crystalize into the circumstances of life." 
Twelve volunteers closed their eyes and relaxed as Eagles helped them to slip into a hypnotic state with his smooth, reassuring voice. "It is not a trance, nor sleep as we know sleep, rather a relaxed but heighten­ed state of awareness," Eagles explained. 
The volunteers went through the various motions of drawing, fishing, going to a funny or romantic movie or horse racing at his suggestion. "You can't get anyone to do anything they don't want to do," he stated. The hypnotized students acted out each situation, as it was narrated by Eagles, genuinely expressing emotions of happiness, frustration, fear and content­ment. 
Eagles demonstrated post-hynotic sug­gestion by programming reactions in volunteers that would be triggered by specific sounds or songs. One student became a drill sergeant when the audience whistled the theme from The Bridge on the River KwaJ. Another yelled "the Indians are coming" at the sound of stamping feet. 
The suggestions were erased as soon as the volunteers left the building at the end of the three-hour performance and all they knew of it, as one student recalled was that "it was a wonderful relaxed feeling." 


\ 
-~. 
• M• > 
....., £::......... •• 

A blindfolded Gil Eagles picks a random number last night before 400 students in the new Angela Athletic Facility [photo by john Calcutt) 
.,,(t~-~-ffai'ORTH 

eady 19tXrs who takes ott wtth a 1l year old bQyl#hJs grandfather's new car. Al$o statritmWiU Geer. 
. FO()TfSALL: Sun. 1:00 22 The New Odeans Saints battle the Bears at Chkago. 
mE TJUAL. OF LEE HARVEY OS1 WAW; Sun, 8:00 28 ~ · The .dramatic copclusion of the court proceedings against the accused killer of John F. Kennedy starring John Pleshette as Oswald with Ben Gazzara and Loren Greene. 
ELVIS IN CONCERT: Mon. 7:00 22 • A tribute to the late King of Rock 'n' Roll in a 60 minute special of Elvis in concert just two months prior to his death. 
NFL FOOTBALL: Mon. 8:00 28 • In this week'sMonday Night Football we have the Chief!> hosting the Oakland Raiders in Kansas City. Howard Cosell and Don Meredith 1,"eport on the action. 
BASEBALL PLAY·OFF: Tues. 7:00 16 • Philadelp~ plays Los Angeles in the first National League play·off game telecaSt live. 
MARY JANE HARPER CRIED LAST NIGHT: Wed. 8:00 22 • A study into the cruelty of child abuse showing a sick womau Who beats her child and why she does it. 
·P4PJLLON: Thurs. 7:00 22 • Steve McQueen stars as Papillon, a prisoner on infamQUs Devil'~ Island, trying to excape with a shy counterfeiter (Dustin Hoffman). 
MIDNIGBT SPECIALJ Fri. 12:00 16 • Bob Marley and The Waiters and Super­tramp play at this midnight concert hosted by Kenny Rogers. 
on the screen: 
· TH~ QUI(!K1£ ··-~ This ~eries of buses 
leave~ the.N\>tre Dat\le drCie and fti¢ clrde at f{oly (;1.'o~s _Itt SMC .around ·~ery hour an(} ~akes it stops at tJie hotte$t places around;-. ....•.............· .. 
cptVELA,N.D .CAVAUE~ v$. 80f1. -~"'l;Q.•. 8~AVES·•~·.pre-:s!!i~ game at the· ,-\C<.:, Tickets $4, $5, $6 with stars Catiiand Shurilat~. . .·.•· ··· ··· ·.. ····• .·· ··...···. -·•·· < . ··. ·· · · · 
.•·.· ROYAL WEDDING/ k st~rring . Fred 
Astai~ 
in. the Engineedng Aud•. 7t 9; 11
ShOO . . 
SATVRI)AY~ 
.·. 
10lJQ.to l:OO a.nk $~50 eQ\'¢fchaige~ 
. RUG)lY i• Notre Dame Rugby v$. ·Ulitlois 
State A te~m start$ at. U!(l(t · · 
.· SutroA'f • TBJN'GS !J1~ COl\fE Free 
movie inthe Engineeribg A.ttd!t~ri!lro. 
•. l.fO~A;Y and TUESDAY ) MASRi • Ex~tlent c()medy $tat'riiig EU<it ()Quid And Donald. sutherland jn the Engineering 
Aui}ltorium. ·_. ···•· •· ··. .·.... .. ·.· _.· ..·.· .. ····· ·. 
THURSDAY···· BUGS BUNNY SuPERf· 
STAR statri~g BUg$ BunnY Jn the E'Qgi• 
.· The ~nulll \IYSND (81M FM) ''Beatie's 
Special'' fronll~tt~ ·· Sittutd,a)' Pigllt t~( 6 
SuiJ,day rp,ornfu$"~ ··. · .. ···· ···. · · · ··· 
Five students, obviously hypnotized, are ready to perform at Eagle's command. [photo by John Calcutt] 

Friday, September 30, 19n the observer 11 
Letters to a Lonely God 
Stories that Children Tell 
Reuerend 
Robert Griffin 
There are stories that must always be told to the children. There are poems they must hear, and songs they must sing; God's happiness depends on it. Even for God, Being a Trinity isn't enough; for to tell the truth, the sky -merely lived in as a neighborhood -is a lonesome place. After the sun and moon were invented, and Asia Minor was slipped onto the maps of the geographies; after the Big Dipper and Far Rockaway, and Adam and Eve were invited to exist, God said to Themselves: "Why, of course, how stupid of Us! There must be children." So children were born with the incredible innocence needed to believe the secrets heaven hangs about them in their infancy. It is said when scientists believe only in their self-sufficiency. It is pretentious for politicians to praise their own programs on human progress. But when the children call a press conference to announce they are leaving their duties as minor, though mischievous prophets and mystics, then we can sigh over the bleached bones of God's mysteries as the land of Pooh is filled with the sounds of the multiplication tables, heard in the place of Mother Goose. 
When I was a child growing up with my sister, it was always she who told me to make wishes on the twinkle, twinkle of the 
S·U· Movies by don o'sullivan 
This Sunday at 7 p.m. and 9:30 p.m., Student Union will present a double feature in the Engineering auditorium. The films are H. G. Wells' Things to Come and Peter Watkins' The War Game. There is no admission charge. 
Things to Come (1936) was adapted by. Wells from his own bestselling novel The Shape of Things to Come. The book which appeared in 1933 is surprisingly accurate in its prophecies. World War breaks out in 1940 over a conflict in Poland. It is a war fought in the air, with radio-controlled missile torpedoes leveling cities. All nations use poision gases extensively. Civilization crumbles. Pestilence and barbarism rages. But there remain a few airplanes and scientists who eventually sweep away the rubble and begin building again. The year is suddently 2036 and civilization has advanced to awesome proportions. But this world is so antiseptic and luxurious that the people are compla­cent and stagnant. Man's advancemenf once again hangs in the balance. The film's visions of and concern for humanity 

THINGS TO COME are staggering, and its philosophical dialogues stimulate the mind. It is both an intellegent and spectacular film. The War Game (1965) was the first film to take the audience into a post-nuclear war world. And Watkins is the only film-maker with courage enough to show what it might be like for the wounded and the survivors after just a brief atomic exchange. This BBC-TV special was banned from airing and received the Academy Award for Best Documentary because of its extreme realism. It is a calculatedly brutal and unnerving film leaving no doubt as to the danger of the war game known as the nuclear arms race. these films provide a pessimistic, yet necessary, look at the future man may be headed towards. Take warning and don't miss it. 
Evening Star. "Wish as hard as you can," she would say, "and it will be like a prayer that God must answer." I asked her once, if I wished hard for a pony, whether I also had to pray to get the pony. For something as hard to get as a pony, she said, I had better pray, because I would need all the help I could get. Since I had already been promised a Shetland by my grandfather as a bribe not to die of pneumonia, I didn't know why I should have to work so hard for a beast that was owed me. I trusted my sister's theology, but I didn't get the pony. My grandfather said it had died on the was over from the Shetland Islands. 
One night when we were watching the sky, waiting for a twinkle we could trust our wishes with, we saw a light shooting like a rocket down the Milky Way. "It's a falling star,'' my sister said solemnly. "It's a soul on its way to heaven." 
"My Lord, Barbara," I said, thrilled almost to death at the vision. "How do you know?" 
"Falling stars are always souls on their way to heaven," she said. !wasn't sure I was worthy of a sister precocious enough to read the charts of salvation. Later, when we heard that old Mrs. Pitts had been gathered that evening to glory, I wanted to comfort old Mr. Pitts with the n.:.ws that we had· seen his wife travelling home. But Barbara said: "Don't say anything," so I figured we were pledged to keeping celestial secrets. 
On those rare summer afternoons, when the weather confuses its own moods by letting it rain while the sun is shining, my sister would say: ''The Devil is beating his wife. In a little while, there will be a rainbow." There always was a rainbow, when she said there would be, so I couldn't decently doubt that Mrs. Devil had gotten her lumps; to doubt it would seem practically atheism. 
Through childhood, my sister told me about all the little stuff, as, for example, whether I liked butter, from the buttercup reflecting under my chin; (buttercups, of course, only confirmed what I could always have told them) or, whether the new girl in class loved me, as the unpetalling of the daisy would tell (the answer, I finally figured, always depended on whether you had an odd number, or even number, of petals.) She also told me the important stuff, such as whether the fairies had been at the milk. I found it hard to believe that the fairies ever got at the milk. But if the milk was sour, my sister would always say, yes, the fairies had done it; they were mad because we hadn't left some out for them in a dish. The fact that my mother · sometimes let milk sour so she could use it for cooking didn't jar my sister's faith in the mischief of Tinkerbell, deprived. ''The fairies have been here," she would say. "They've soured the milk again." 
Of all the grandchildren, my sister was the only child who learned from my grandmother the practice of reading tea leaves. My grandmother did it mostly as a game, I think, to entertain us. "Some child is going to shed tears this day," Nana 
would say, shaking undrunk tea drops from the bottom of the cup. Usually I was the child that shed the tears, as Nana well knew I might, since I always cried, going home from Nana's. 
My sister could find tears in the tea 
leaves, even when the leaves were merely 
damp; but mostly, I think, she found only 
her own tear drops. I have always 
wondered if, as a child, she didn't see all 
the sadnesses of her lifetime in the dregs of 
tea, left in the bottom of a cup. And as 
much as I loved her, there was no way I 
could keep her from the grief. 
There are some grownups who never completely leave childhood; my sister is one of them. Talking with her this summer, listening to her trying to cope, I thought: there must always be grownups who can recognize the Devil's tantrums and the pranks of fairies, and tell which stars are souls falling into the hands of God. There must be children of many ages ·who can see the twinkling of a star as God's 
eye as it must twinkle as He is saying yes. 
There must always be children who believe 
the secrets the rest of us have outgrown. 
There have to be children; God is 
happiness depends on it. Without their 
innocence, He would have no one fit to play 
with. How blessed are the children of God, 
for they shall called peace makers. 
There are stories that must always be 
told to children, composed in the places 
where the flowers grown, and the Evening 
Star brightens. There are stories told of · 
children, by students who have worked in 
places like Logan Center. Those are the 
authentic places of original innocence. I 
hope students are always anxious to 
protect them; otherwise, we are one step 
closer to the bleached bones of innocence 
belonging to the lost childhood. 
The NoctUrne Night Right on WSND 
Bryan Gruley 
It is early Saturday morning, mabe 4:30 A.M., and you have just returned from another harrowing night at the bars. You are bleary-eyed and stumble-footed, but you are by no means through for the night. You've got theat irrepressible away-from­the-motherland urge to party 'til you literally drop in your socks. But you ar alone--every door in the section is locked tight against your raving advance. Your roommate is the only person you can get to, but he's in bed too--he was at Corby's from the only available person. So you shake him, smack him, throw his blankets on the floor, yank his pillows--nothing works. What to bait him with then? No movies on this late, he's heard all your albums twenty times, and the backgammon board has been pilfered by someone in the section. Hopeless situation. What possibly could there be to bring your roommate, uncon­scious deaf heap, leaping from his bed and into the wee partying hours of the morning? 

Easy. The Nocturne Night Flight. 
TheNocturne Night Flight is WSND-FM's answer to WRBR, and a more than adequate answer it is. Coming through your stereo speakers every night (well, morning technically) at 12:15 A.M., the show offers a wide variety of progressive music. It originated in the late sixties, primarily as a response to student de­mands for the new rock sounds of the period. Since then, the Night Flight has broadened its scope to include jazz, jazz-rock, and country rock. 
Joan Luttmer is the director of and driving force behind the Night Flight. Her duties as director include coordinating the disc jockeys and their respective shows, and making sure the DJs have obtained necessary third-class broadcasting licen­ses. Her enthusiasm for the job and the show itself is remarkable. 
"The Nocturnes are very special to me," she says. "They're my baby." She has embellished her baby with a format that diverses greatly from the stations's pre­dominantly classical program. 
"Most of the people at the head of WSND-FM are really into classical music," she says. "Nocturnes give myself and a few of the other broadcasters a chance to play music that we know the students want to hear but aren't able to get on other radio stations in the area." 
The Night Flight attempts to air _ generous amount of newly-released music. Some Night Flights feature a certain new album, and others just random smatterings from a number of new albums. Guests and interviews are rarities, though occasionally a DJ may air a discussion with an ND community member who is knowledgeable 
"We're eager to hear what they (the 
students) want," says Joan. "Even if it's 
to say that they think a DJ talks too much, we'd like to hear about it. We try to honor their song requests whenever we can, but sometimes we don't because the group has already been played, or the song is too Top 40 for us, or the song doesn't fit in to the particular DJ's show." 
Seven DJ s comprise the Night Flight broadcast crew. Sean Coughlin plays progressive rock on Monday nights. The director herself is Tuesday's announcer, playing mostly jazz with some rock on request. She plans on playing more country rock in the near future. Nina Burrell plays jazz and new albums on Wednesday, while Thursdays feature pro­gressive rock with Brian Cronin. Frank Laurino, Joe Viola and Ted Twardzik do the weekend Night Flights, playing music that ranges from classics jazz to obscure rock. 
It should be noted that on certain nights the Night Flight stays on later than 2 A.M. Attractive Night Flight posters (designed by Joan) give the show's time as from 
12:15 A.M. to 2. On most nights this is the case, but on Fridays and Saturdays, the Night Flight can stay on as late, or as early (however you look at it) as 6 A.M. 
What does the future hold for the Night 
Flight? Right now, more publicity. Joan 
says, "We'll be getting t-shirts t)\.;i ;·~.;tty­
soon. I'm working on that design now. 
We'll probably have some more posters out 
too." Besides this, the Night Flight may 
soon be lengthened by two hours on 
Wednesday and Thursday nights. As 
regards the immediate future, Joan will be 
featuring the new Hall and Oates album on 
her show next Tuesday. 
The Nocturne Night Flight is truly a diamond in the rough, considering the rather sparse surplus of progressive radio stations in the area. It makes an appeal to the student with an ear for something more than Top 40, to the person who appreciates music with a good bit more quality and variety than can be found in most of the music broadcast in teh area. But more than this, the Night Flight makes an appeal 
• to the nighthawk booker, the nerve-crazed Emil freak, and the insomniac partywom ne'er-say-die. Good music awaits you all, friends ofthe night. All that is required of \ you js to flip that sodden Beach Boys record off the turntable, and snap on the Nocturne Night Flight. Joan Luttmer will 
' love you for it. 



12 the ObS8Ml[_______F_ri_d_ay_,_s_e_p_te_m_b_e_r_J_o_,_19_:_ 
VESS director to recruit at ND 
gram was extended into social
Volunteers get room, board and a 

by Blll Delaney service. The organization now
stipend of $80 a month. They 
sponsors over one hundred volun­
generally live with other volunteers 
Archie Gress, director of a Texas teers.
in the neighborhoods where they
organization called Volunteers for The Texas Catholic Conference
work. 
Educational and Social Services funds the organization, but accord­
VESS was ·created in 1972 by
(VESS), will be at Notre Dame on Gress, who was a principal of a ing to Gorman, it is nondenomina­school in Austin, to deal with the
Sunday and Monday to recruit tional. "It's a worthwhile and volunteers. VESS works with growing experience,'' Gorman
educational problems of low­
economically and socially disadvan­added.
income children. Later, the pro­
taged Mexican Americans and volunteers are usually college grad­uates who donate a year or more. 
Gress will speak at an informa­
PLACEMENT BUREAU 
tional and explanatory meeting on 
Main Building 
Sunday at 8 p.m. in the Library Lounge and will spend all day Monday answering questions in the Library Concourse. INTERVIEWS SCHEDULED FOR WEEK OF OCTOBER 10 
Some CILA summer projects 
Interviews are for seniors and graduate students. Sign-up
may be arranged through VESS but 
schedules are in Room 213, Main Building. Interview times
these are still in the planning 
must be signed for in person. Law School sign-ups are at stage. according to Kathy Gorman, the Pre-Law Society Bulletin Boards, O'Shaughnessy Hall. a Notre Dame senior who was a The sign-up period at the Placement Bureau will be from VESS volunteer in Mexico last 8:00a.m. to 5:00p.m., Monday through Thursday. 
summer. 
OCT. 10 nwyer Instruments, Inc.
Many of the VESS positions call 
Mon. B in ME and EE.

for volunteers who can speak· 
Ecodyne -The Lindsay Divisio~ 
Spanish and most require at least a 
All BBA. bachelors degree. Gorman said. George S. Olive & Co. B in Acct. MBA with Acct. background or concen­tration.
Carter signs 

Prudential Insurance Co. B in AL and BA. Vanderbilt Law School
farm bill 

B in all discipline~ WASHINGTON IAPI -President Carter signed ;1n Sit billion farm OCT. 10/11 Peat, Harwick, Mitchell & Co. 
Mon/Tues. B in Acct. MBA with Acct. background or concen­
hill \l'Sll'rda\. hailing it as a ''great 
tration.

bonn .. to f;;rmcr-.. and consumers 
Texaco, Inc. 

alike 
BM in ChE, ME. B in CE, EE, Earth Science . 
.. \~ a farmer myself.· Carter "aid at a Rose Garden ceremony, OCT. 11 Boy Scouts of America Ill' "a~ pleased to sign what he TUe's-B in all disciplines. 
Montgomery Elevator Co.
!l'l'llll'd the most far-reaching agri-
B in Mkt and Mgt,
ultural legislation in 40 years. 
Ohio State University -Graduate School of Business
I h,· new law boost grain far­

B in all disciplines.llH'r"· incomes. revamps the fede­Kurt Salmon Associates ral food stamp program and BM in ME and MEIO. MBA with Tech. undergrad degree. 
L'\pands agricultural research State Mutual of America B in AL and BA.
"'hile continuing and revising virtu­ill\· cvcrv statute administered bv 
OCT, 11/12 Rohm and Haas Co.th~ Agri~ulture Department. . Tues/Wed BMD in ChE and Chern. Althouth the food stamp and price support sections will be costly OCT. 12 Dickinson School of Law Wed B in all disciplines,
tn taxpa~·ers. experts say the 
Essex Group, Inc,
nll'awrc's immediate effect on 
B in EE and ME. (Change in requirements since pub­
price., at the supermarket will be 
lication of Manual.)
minimal. 
B, F, Goodrich Co. The legislation contatns about $2 BM in ME, EE, ChE, CE, MEIO, Chern. billion more than Carter originally Hercules Inc. rcyucsted. However, he said the 
BM in ChE and Chern. t1nal. compromise version was only OCT, 12 Indiana State Highway Commission w;;r-BM in CE.
SJOO million more than he later had 
Inland Steel Co. Indiana Harbor Works
in mind. 
B in Acct. MBA with Acct. background or concen-
Congress and the Ford and 
tration, Carter administrations worked Ernst & Ernst nearly three years to prepare the B in Acct. MBA with Acct. background or concen­bill. which will be in effect for the 
tration. next four years. Heralding it as a 
OCT 12/13/14 Ernst & Ernst

cooperative venture, the President 
Wed/Th/Fri B in Acct. MBA with Acct. background or concen­
praised members of Congress of tration both parties, nutritionists and con­sumers for helping to shape the OCT. 13 Goodyear Tire &Rubber Co 
Thurs B in ChE, ME, Chern.
iinal product. 
McDonnell Douglas CorpThe law tightens food stamp BM in Math, Comp Sci, Physics, EE, AE, ME, MEIO. 
•'ligibility requirements for families Miller Brewing Co 
ll'ith incomes above the official B in Chern, Biol, Microbiol, ME, EE, ChE. Northwestern Mutual Life Ins Co.
poverty level. while increasing aid 
BM in Al and BA. JD.
t•l families with incomes under the 
u.s. Industrial Chemicals Co 
poverty level. 
B in ME and EE. BM in ChE. Carter said the revised food 
York Division, Borg-Warner Corp B in ME, CE, MEIO.
'tamp plan is simple, fair and easy to administer and will remove a 
OCT. 13/14 Diamond Shamrock Corp
··pervasive threat of fraud." Thurs/Fri Oct. l3: B in ChE. 
Price support sections of the law Oct, 14: B in all Engr. disciplines, Chern, Biol, guarantee minimum prices farmers Physics. MBA with Tech. background. can get for their crops -'a giant 
...~ep toward tying target prices to 
BMD in ChB. PhD in Chea,
production costs," said Carter. 
Stellite Division -Cabot Corp.This will boost federal outlays by B in Met, (MBA cancelled for fall interviews.) ........ up to $4.4. billion a year while the 
~ ~ ~ ~ ~-~------­
food stamp program will cost $5.6 , ~ ...-. ~ ~f billion annually, the administration .... avs. 
t ~ PebbleWood I

~rhe House completed congres­·tonal action on the compromise 
t Country Club t
~·~rsion of the bill Sept. 16. The 1 \~nate approved it Sept. 9. t t Actual spending on crop-related Disco
t 
programs depends primarily on the 
t FRIDAYANDSATURDAYNIGHT$2.00 ADMISSION· t
weather in this country and in other major crop-exporting nations. Hut whatever it adds up to, t Ladies Night I 
Carter declared it will be "a great t EVERYW EDNESDAY-GENTLEMEN $1 
boon not only to American farmer 
t LADIES FREE t
families but to anyone who con­sumes our products." t Tony T. Dechant, president of 1 
: DRESS CODE ENFORCED t
the National Farmers Union, issued a statement saying the new law will not stem farm unrest, despite its f JERICHO & SHAW NEE ROADS, BRIDGMAN, MICH. t 
improvement in the minimum price 
.~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~
& -----~ 
support levels. 
NED TOPHAM PRESENTS A KENlUCKY FRIED niEAlllE PRODUCTION "lliE KENlUCKY FRIED MOJJE" 
A'<S<xiat~ Prrxlur~r lARRY KOSTROFF • Execubw Prrxlun•r KIM .JOR(;~NSEN Sow11play b~· .JERRY ZUCKER .JAMES ABRAHAMS LI'\VIIl ZlJCKf·_R Produced bv ROBERT K WFISS • Direrted hv .JOHN lANDIS RELEASED BY UNITED ~lLM DISTRIBU·noN COMPANY INC 
© 1977 KFM FJIJv1S. INC IRI·~ 
STARTS FRIDAY 1:45-3:45-5:45-7:45-9:45 

DON'TTown & Country Shoppmg Center 
MISS

Telephone 259-9090 
IT! 

1st AN OUTRAGEOUS MEAL OF week MADNESS 
THIS MOVIE IS TOTALLY OUT OF CONTROL 

Now a PLITT THEATRE STARTS FRIDAY 
p 

RIVER PARK 7:30-9:30 
Mishawaka Avenue at 3Qth 
''ALLEGRO NON T~OPPO'' 
is not one of those ''foreiBn ·art'films·.:_ 
1t'~ an animated feature-A ni1arious parody of "FANTASIA':' 
(Some peop.le so sofar 
as to say 1t t1as the 
best animation in 
the last !Q !fears!) 
Bruno Bozzetto's 

Allegro NonTrojJpo 
(don,t let the namefool you) 

Friday, September 30, 1977 

the observer 13 

Thinks college is one big time-out. Holds school record for most games played. Once managed to drop 7 passes and 3 courses 1n same day. Cal drinks Lite Beer from Miller because irs less filling. With his schedule he can't afford to get filled up. 
Today he has to be in two places at once. ­Insists on playing center and quarterback. Spends spare time going to class. 
Lite Beer from Miller. Everything you always wanted in a beer. And less. 
------------~--r--~--~---------------
Fridilly, September 30, 1977
14 the observer 


'lrt
:"·' 

-~ 
(~ ;u 
this Weekend Only 


Kenny Lo~:~:ins Celebrate Me Home 
tncludlng: Enter My Dream/Why Do People Lie I've Got The Melody (Deep In My Heart) Deddy"sllack/Lady Luck 
,_... PC 34655 
A golden past and an even brighter future. Kenny Loggins, on Columbia 
Records and Tapes. 
•"COLUMBIA.'" MARCA REG. 

-
Just for the Record 

...__._,.....;._..;___,__ ~--·----·--~'"..:-~ .__..... __ .. _:., 
·---------· 



Political developments discussed by commission 
by Valerle Stefani state hospistals are not required to perform abortions. "This ruling was our first major
The ND-SMC Right to Life political gain,'' said LaSalvia. 

Commission sponsored a pro-life This year the Commission plansslide presentation and informa­to sponsor masses at both Notretional meeting last evening in the Dame and St. Mary's, in additionLaFortune Amphitheater. Chair­to organizing a "Right to Life man of the Commission Rick Week" beginning Jan. 22, 1978.

LaSalvia, discussed political deve­The Commission hopes to have Dr. 

lopments in the Pro-Life Move­Mildred Jefferson, president of the ment, in addition to outlining goals National Right to Life Commission, for this year's organization. 

speak sometime during that week. 
The meeting opened with a 25 The Right to Life Commission 
minute taped lecture and slide was established both nationally and 
show by Dr. and Mrs. Jack Wilke, here at Notre Dame-St. Mary's in co-authors of the Handbook on 1973 following a ruling by the 
Abortion. The Wilkes' lecture Supreme Court legalizing abor­centered on the legal, social, and tions. The ND-SMC Commission is psychological aspects of abortion, also involved with the "Birthright"
emphasizingthe rights and issues of program in South Bend. 
the unboL ~hild. ''The ND-SMC Right to Life 
LaSalvia then discussed political Commission was established to 
developments concerning abortion, advocate for the University com­
the most recent being the 6-3 munity the sanctity of all human 
Supreme Court decision whereby life no matter how innocent or 
states are not required to use vulnerable,. whether it be the 
taxpayers' money to provide abor­unborn child or the elderly per­
tions. This decision also ruled that son," said LaSalvia. 
Board members chosen 
board. Students may be removed chosen as temporary chairman last 
[continued from page 1) from the board and the nomination Spring. Gary Luchini, a junior, was fill the remaining panel position pocess drastically altered, accord­picked as vice-chairman. and two people would be desig-ing to both Administration and The council also considered a nated for the Appeals board. student government proposals proposal for periodic reviews of 
The makeshift proposal was which have been circulating the students services. The proposal approved by the SLC. Haley said he ·.· past several weeks. intends to have anumber of depart­will announce the three remaiijii:lg i Administration nominees to the ments within and without the faculty candidates after th~y h~ve t board were Fr. Matthew Miceli, Office of Student Affairs do peri­been contacted. ::. . . associate professor of theology; odic self-evaluations which will be 
The five faculty members alrea!iy and Edmund Price, director of reviewed by the SLC. approved for the Judici~l board Food Services, to be an alternate. A number of deficiencies in nanel are: Sarah Daugherty, Student nominee·· were James language and content of the pro­assistant professor of English; Dunne .and Pat Oveny, alternate; posal were discussed by several .,ophie Korczyk, assistant<profes-:both are seniors. members. It was agreed that a sor of finance; Albert 'LeMay, !it The SLC voted on the appeals three man committee should re­assistant professor of modern <board slate and approved it, a)­write the proposal and Bro. Just languages; Paul Rathburn, associ-though two student representatives Paczesny, vice-president for Stu­ate professor of English; and Ft. voted against the nominees. They dent Affairs, Shilts, and Luchini James Shilts, assistant professorof il'I.(JicC:lted they were dissatisfied were chosen to fill the committee. Physics. >} ~ifh~e administration's choice for They will report at the SLC's next 
Also approved by the SLC were administration and student nomi-' nees for the Appeals board. This group, composed of one student, one faculty member, and one administrator was also supposed to have been appointed last spring. The board hears cases appealed by either students of the dean of students and is superseded in final decision only by the University president. 
the restructuring of disciplinary procedures, scheduled to take place at the trustees' meeting next month will, by all indications, retain some type of an Appeals 
DOONESBURY 
50 IJJ!TH THE PANAMANIAN REVOWTION A ROAf(JNG SIJC­ass, ALL. THAT REMAINW 7D 813 /JJORXEIJ OUT IJJAS A Nf3W TREATY! I 
1/QO /{(}(/RS 8CRJRE THE PANAMANIANS ARJ<IVW IN a/ASH­ING7VN, 7H& 7l?EATY WAS RATIF!W ANO 
5/GNEO! 

th~@~gt,1lar member. In addition, meeting on Oct. 13. Dearihf Students James Roemer 
raised a question regarding the student choice for the regular member. 
Executive session was convened to discuss the matter. Afterwards, in regular session, the council re-approved the slate, by the exact same vote. 

Hahiy elected chairman 
In other business, the SLC elected Peter Haley, a senior, as permanent chairman. Haley, south quad representative, is serving his second year on the SLC. He was 
by Garry Trudeau 
ONCC AGAIN, TH& e!TERPRISING 8UNIIU-VIV?JUA TCXJI< CENTCIZ STAGE! tl/Hilt 711& PANAMANIAN 
OtLEGAT/ON UIA5 £N Raile 70 7HE (}.5., H£ fRANTICALLY R£/AKJRI<E/J 7H£ OR/61NAL. 7RE/J:TY I 
/ 

HARRIS, YOU GOOO LUANr 7V KNOW PLACE 

WH/1.T I THINK FOR A BUT 
OF 7HAT fAIRY 8/(EAK a/HAT 
-
TilLE? I ... HAPPeNED? 
I a/ERE 7H£Y 


Lawyer gets unexpected help in first televised murder trial 

MIAMI [AP] -Attorney Ellis Rubin is getting unexpected help in his defense of Ronny Zamora, the teenager he says was driven to kill by television. Suggestions are pouring in from the public and other lawyers who watch televised· portions of the trial each night. 
"Tell him to get rid of juror No. 4", a woman telephoned Rubin's law office earlier this week after watching jury selection on Miami's public service TV channel. "I have a feeling about her,' she said. 
The Zamora case is the first major test of a one-year camera-in­the-courtroom experiment ordered by the Florida Supn me Court. Ironically, television also plays a 
SMC senior week successful 
by Honey McHugh 

The first annual St. Mary's Career Development Center "Senior Week" was a "remarkable success", according to the CDC staff. The schedule of events included a senior class meeting, the first Interview Skills workshop and two career seminars. 
An Open House on Monday for the administration, faculty and students highlighted the week. At that time, 25 percent of the senior class picked up CDC registration packets. Many express an interest in future career counseling and signed up for skills workshops held during the semester. 
In addition to the registration forms, students were given copies of the 1977 CDC Career Manual and The Service and Workshop brochure. After the students have completed the registration pro­c~;ss, they will be given a copy of The College Placement Annual for future reference on career informa­tion. Students are encouraged to return registration forms as soon as 
Oktoberfest at St. Mary's seemed to have been successful in raising the spirits of thes Holy Cross juniors [photo by john 
Calcutt] 
CAP meeting Sunday 
There will be a general meeting 
for all CAP students this Sunday at 
8 pm in room 103, O'Shaugnessy. 
The topics of discussion will in­
clude possible coffeehouses with 
faculty members, trips to Chicago, 
a football concession stand, and 
other general activities. 
This meeting is part of a process of re-organization of the CAP (Committee on Academic Progress) that began last year under the auspicies of the Arts and Letters Student Advisory Council. Accord­ing to Karl Kronebusch, one of a three-member committee which has been coordinating the reorgan­ization, the hope is that "CAP can be something more than a device for getting class cards." 
Anyone unable to attend the meeting, but still interested in helping to set-up some of the proposed activities should contact either Karl at 1739, Dan at 6487, or Cori at 287-0289. 
FREE!!! 

Soft drink with 3 items TACOS • eAB1 TACQ 
• 
IIIIITOS • TAIIALIS 

• 
fiiCIIlADAS • TACO DOC 

• 
TOSfADOS • lEAN TACO 


• BAIBEQIE TACO 
• SPANISII HOT D08 
• CHUUBURCfR 
"We carry a line of 

\'egetarian Foods. 
.. RESTAURANTE SCOTTSDALE MALL 

~ it-'Jc:.'•/.J.; .,,,~,, , '.:~~(·Jil ,~.iA ~~, lj\I.JH '::iU•lllhtW·. 
possible since copies of the Place­ment Annual are limited. 
Approximately· 45 students attended the first. Interview Skills workshop last Monday afternoon. Similar attendance was recorded at the other two career seminars, especially the program geared toward liberal arts majors in today's job market. 
"I was very impressed by the enthusiasm of this year's senior class and the support they've given us," stated O'Neil. "They now know of our services and that we're here to help them." She added that there will be a second Open House for underclassmen next semester. 
ND Franciscans to celebrate feast 
Members of the Franciscan com­munity at Notre Dame will cele­brate a mass Monday at 5 p.m. in the Breen-Phillips Hall chapel in honor of the feast of St. Francis of Assisi. All members of the Notre Dame and St. Mary's communities are invited to participate. 
Fr. Chuck Fasso will celebrate the mass, and Sr. Jean Lenz will be the homilist. 
part in Zamora's defense. 
· Zamora, 15, and Darrell Agrella, 14, are charged with the murder of Zamora's neighbor, Elinor Hag­gart, 83. Rubin says his client was insane because of ''involuntary television Intoxication." Still cameras and one television camera have been recording each day's proceedings. Highlights of the dramatic trial are being broad­cast here in competition with the regular nightly network fare, inclu­ding the police shows cited by Rubin in his defense. The trial shows are drawing an audience. "Hey, Ellie, you're using too much eye shadow," a fellow mem­ber of the told the 43-year old attorney as he was leaving the Dade County justice building this week. But mixed with the ribbing was serious advice. "Hey, dump juror No.8, she's a cop's wife," one lawyer advised after watching the nightly trial coverage. "Don't listen to him," said another. "I know police wives, they'll bend over backwards to be impartial." Rubin's law office reports other attorneys have been calling after viewing the programs. The prosecution has declined to say if it is getting similar, unsoli­
cited, advice. 
"I'm a lawyer, too," Rubin's associates quoted one caller as saying. "Try to keep juror No. 5. That's the kind of juror I'd like if I were trying the case." 
Rubin, a flamboyant lawyer who once ran 75 miles to dramatize his fight against the television black­outs of local pro football games, says he's delighted with the inte­rest in the case. 
''This is the first time a murder trial has been shown on TV and I believe the public is really into the case,' he says. "I think it's one of the most educationaly valuable things that has been done with the courts." 
.NDSMC THEATRE 
needs 
USHERS 
For all shows-see shows free. sign up now for entire season. call 284-4141 

t~---------------,
CONEY DOG 96c l 
I FRENCH FRIES I
I LARGE ROOT BEER I 
I one per customer per visit I 
II. thru Oct. 16 1977 I 
I----------------~ 
'Dolfn Suds., I 
I We make a lot of things better. I 
I Texas Burger • Charco Burger • Coney Dog • Tenderloin • 
I 

Bar-B-Que • Fish Sandwiches 
\ south bend ave. & edison I 
~---------------' 
GRAND OPENING 
~J-~ 
731 Lincolnway West 
288-3559 

v'\ 
Complete line o.f Paraphernalia 
Stuff t-shirts $3 each 
10% Discount on Team T-Shirts 

No Matter How Ugly You Are, Come in and get your portrait painted Friday, Saturday or Sunday 
, ,_......... -< J .... ~.~ ,._ ' ............
Q . --..l'l'.•·r~·,.·.--. -t I j 
,,·o !n;,'~;( 
-~~ .....:::-.~-~"""-~~---""lf.'"W'h~ ........'9.~~~-.~!'I"'W"'"''" .. .,... • .f L .. ~~"'JJI,.·~~ ,~,...,...~-..-~....,..-•• ~. ,..................., ......... , ..: 
......__.I ·~ ••• A ..... ...u~ 
Friday, September 30, 1977 the observer 17 

"I'm painting a boat," commented a hypnotized Notre Dame student during Gil Eagle's
presentation last night. 
rt Gallery features ·Atget photos 
A collection of documentary photographs by Eugene Atget, a visual cataloguer of French life and culture of the early 20th century, will be exhibited by the Notre Dame Art Gallery during the month of October. 
This one-man traveling exhibition from the collection of the George Eastman House of Photo· graphy, consists of 40 original prints make by Atget between 1900-1925, and includes some of his most celebrated depicitons of Parisian streets. 
Atget, born in 1856, , did not begin working as a photographer until he was 40 years old, and throughout his career remained in virtual obsucrity. Using cumber­some, outdated equipment and working in the early light of dawn when the streets were deserted, he made over 10,000 photographs of the city of Paris and its environs. His work was clearly motivated by a love for the city and an ardent desire to record its many facets. 
Atget died in 1927, unexhibited and unpublished. His works were rescued from obscurity by Berenice Abbott, an American photograph­er, and it is largely through her efforts that Atget is now regarded as one of the masters of early 20th century photography. 
Also on exhibition at the Art Gallery through the month of October are photographs from the west and southwest and Pre· Columbian sculpture and textiles, all from the permanent collection. 
The vallery Is located in O'Shaug­nessy Hall, on campus and is open to the public free of charge, 10 am · 
4:45 pm weekdays, 1 pm -4:45 pm weekends, and 10 am -1 pm/4 pm · 5 pm on home football game Saturdays. 
U.S. 31 North-277-1522 
DOLBY STEROPHON:C SOUND! WEEKDAYS 7:00-9:36-Sat.Sun.2:1J0..4:3G-7:00-9:30 [No 

.~\4 (I) \{11,~111
~XT TO NORTH VILLAGE MALL For info. dial 277-1522 
Redford, Nicholson, Streisand, DeN ira ~ogether for the first time in the same ad 
MONTY 
Warning .•. sew on your buttons and tape up your ribs ... be here when the fun starts! 
Friday 
7:15-9:20 
Sat-Sun 
1:45-3:45-5:45 7:45-9:45 
Teachers imprisoned 
PEDHAM, Mass. [AP] • Two Superior Court Judge John M. 
judges systematically began lock-Greaney, who sentenced the 34 
ing up more striking school teach-teachers jailed last Friday, said all 
ers in the mill town of Franklin on the teachers still on strike would be 
Thursday for refusing to return to locked up by Monday. 
their classrooms. He also said that unless the 
The teachers, some smiling teachers' union reached agreement 
while others sobbed, were taken with the Franklin School Commit­
away by sheriff's deputies to begin tee over the weekend, he will order 
serving time in county jails wh~re the negotiations stopped. 
they will join 34 other teachers who "This means there can he no 
have been locked up for a week. progress until the strike ends," 
' The judges sent 29 teachers to Greaney said. 
jail for indefinite periods Thursday Strikes by public employees are 
after they refused to return to their illegal under state law. 
classrooms. Another 71 teachers Prior to the jailings, the teachers 1are scheduled to appear in court complained bitterly that the school 1Friday. committee had not bargained in 
The jailings follow an order by good faith. Some said they faced 
the judge for the teachers to return imprisonment as a matter of con­
to work or face contempt of court ·science. 
charges. 
About 200 of the school system's 286 teachers are still taking part in the walkout, which began 15 days ago over wages and seniority. All face jail if they don't quit their strike. 
Franklin, located close to Mass­achusetts-Rhode Island border 30 miles south of Boston, has been trying to maintain its daily school system. Substitute teachers are in many dassrooms, but student at­ter iance is running below 75 percent. The schools admit that many students appear at their homerooms, then leave. 

Concert tix on sale Oct. 8 
Tickets 'for the Nov. 5 Crosby, Stills and Nash concert will go on sale at 9 a.m. on Oct. 8 at the Student Union Ticket Office and the ACC box office. 
The lottery for the sale will be held at 6 p.m. on Friday and will be run according to Student Union concert ticl-;:et sales rules. 
Tickets are priced at $7.SO and $8.50. 
!it=:=:=:=;:~:::=:~:;~~;=:===~;===~:;;:===~:=:=:=::=:::::::::::::::::::::::::~::::::::::::::::;l~: 
f » =::: ~ ~ I ~  ERA OF ARA Tom Pagna and Bob Best  ]~ ~~~~ ]]f ~  
!,,  Will Be On The  :;__::_,_~  
:::: =~=~  SECOND FLOOR  r  

Ito autograp~~~~~:~~~ the booll 
_ll~! SATURDAY !OCT 1 !l!l II,,,,.., ,,,,,!,2~,':L:,,,!!:,~~~=,,~~~~ ..,,,,.,,,,;;,.I' THE PERFECT GIFT 
FOR PARENTS, FRIENDS 
The University of Notre Dame 
A Portrait ofIts History and Campus 

THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME: by 
Thomas J. Schlereth Cloth $25.00 .Paperback. $7.95 
Auairabfe now at the Notre Dame Bookstore 
~--------~­

Friday, September 30, 1977
18 the observer 
Notre Dame, MSU await competition 
EAST LANSING, MICH. [API • air. while, has ranged from sparkling to 
Michigan State will put its If the game doesn't qualify as appalling. The Spartans squeaked dangerous but sometimes erratic one of the great showdowns in the past Purdue, fell to Washington passing attack to the test Saturday classic rivalry, it's because both State's aerial blitz, and beat Wyo-when it challenges 14th-ranked teams have stuttered through their ming as both teams played give-Notre Dame in South Bend. first three games en route to 2-1 away. 
The Spartans like to throw the records. It is Notre Dame's home The Irish defense touts three ball a lot anyway, and when faced opener and MSU's first game on returning All-Americans in ends with the hulking Irish ground the road. Ross Browner and Willie Fry and defense they may decide running is It has been a dissappointing year cornerback Luther Bradley. just about out of the question. for Notre Dame, figured to be "The defensive team is what 
Notre Dame has not allowed a among the nation's powers at the their whole program is based on," touchdown on the ground yet this start of the year. It staggered past said MSU Coach Darryl Rogers.' year, and has given up an average Pittsburgh, was beaten by Missis-"They have great size and mobil­of only 91 yards a game rushing. sippi and had to come from behind ity." On the other hand, it has yielded to beat Purdue last week. But if Michigan State is to go 191 yards a game through the Michigan State's play, m~an-, over. and not through, the Irish, 
NCAA changes seeding system 
KANSAS CITY [API The National Collegiate Athletic Assosciation in­troduced a seeding system Tuesday into the playoff scheme for its national basketball championship next March, with Purdue as host for one regional tourney. 
Twenty-one of the 32 berths in the 1978 tournament still will go to 
conference champions.  In  1979,  
there  will  be  only  16  of  these  
automatic quaEfiers.  

The playoffs will start with eight teams playing first round games in four regions on March 11 and 12. Four teams in each regional will be automatic qualifiers and four will be picked "at large" and it will be No. 2 versus No.3, and No. 3 versus No. 2 and No. 4 versus No. 1 in first round games. 
The five extra "automatics" in 1978 will be designated "at large" teams. 
The Atlantic Coast Conference and Eastern Athletic Assosciation champions will play at large op­ponents at Penn on March 12. 
Men's interhall action continues 
byDaveGW Sports Writer 

Cavanaugh gained its first inter­hall football victory in four years Wednesday night by defeating Holy Cross, 16-0, in the final game of a full night of competition on Cartier field. Grace squeezed by Zahm by a score of 6-0 and Keenan and Planner struggled to a 0-0 deadlock in the first two games. 
Feshman Rob Rivera carried the Cavanaugh offense with two touch­down runs, one a 40-yard sprint from scrimmage and the second a punt return of 70 yards. Tim O'Neill threw successful conver­sion passes to freshmen Tony Zwalich and Brian Fridlington. Mike Derosier, also a freshman, led the defense with two intercep­tions. 
Holy Cross was unable to sustain a drive against the feisty defense of Cavanaugh. Bob Cannon con­nected for four completions out of eight attempts, three to Steve landola, for a total of 57 yards. 
In the first game, Grace scored the only points in the game after an interception by Jim Zidar on the Zahm 20. Nick Frangella hit Tim McCarthy in the end zone for the 12 yard score. Joe King sacked the Zahm quarterback twice for Grace. 
Although Zahm outgained Grace on offense, they could never punch through the tenacious Grace de­fense. Late in the frrst half, Zahm threatened to score, driving inside the Grace ten yard line, but Grace held fast on four consecutive downs and took control on the one-yard line. 
The Keenan-Planner contest was plagued with 60 yards in penalties and a player ejection. Keenan quarterback Greg Riehle completed four passes out of seven attempts for 34 yards before his ejection from the game early in the fourth quarter for unsportsmanlike con­duct. Mike Fassler gained 102 yards on the ground for Keenan. 
Tom Soisson led Planner's de­fense in tackles, but Planner could not get untracked on offense and· was held to a minus one yard in totat:tJffetSe. •"• 
The East Coast Conference champion wiJI be an at large team in this East Region play-off. Three teams from the Eastern College Athletic Conference will be named at large teams in any of the regionals. 
The Big Eight and Missouri Valley champions wiJI meet at large teams at Wichita and the South· west Conference and Metro 7 Conference champions will play at large contenders at Oral Roberts University on March 12. 
The Big Ten and Mid-America Conference champions will play at large teams at Purdue, and the Ohio Valley Conference champions will play at large teams at Ten­nessee on March 11. 
The Pacific 8 and Big Sky Conference champions will play at large teams at Oregon and the West Coast Athletic Conference and Western Athletic Conference champions will play at large teams at Arizona State on March 11. The Pacific Coast Athletic Conference champion will be an at large team in the West Regional playoffs. 
Semifinals and finals in the West and Mideast regions will be at Albuquerq~;~e and Dayton on March 16 and 18. These rounds in the East and Midwest regions will be at Providence and Kansas on March 17 and 19. 
The national semifinals and fi­nals are in St. Louis on March 25 and 27. 
*Observer 
Sports 
the recievers have to leave their downs. Earley, a workhorse, has butterfingers at home. Last week 155 yards. they dropped 10 passses against The Spartan defense has been Wyoming. riddled twice through the air and 
Quarterback Ed Smith watched has given up 721 yards in three his completion average drop below games. It also lost starting tackle 50 per cent as his aerials bounced Angelo Fields for the year with a off shoulders, chests and hands. knee injury. But he's sti1144 for 92 for 626 yards Its job will be to stop fullback and three touchdowns. Jerome Heavens, who has 190 
Split end Edgar Wilson, the yards in 50 carries. But the Irish former basketball player, is im-have suffered injuries costing them proving every week and leads the several key players. team with 11 catches. Flanker Kirk Reserve quarterback Joe Gibson have nine, tight end Mark Montana played for the first time in Bramer and fullback Jim Earley six two seasons last week. He hit on each, and tailback Leroy McGee nine of 14 passes for 154 yards. five to give Smith a variety of Ken MacAfee, a 6 foot 4, 249 targets. pound tight end, is going for his 
McGee, a junior college transfer third straight All-America rating. who shows increasing confidence, He has caught 19 passes for 214 has racked up 283 yards in the yards to lead the team in both three contests, scoring four touch-categories. 
1 00 CENTER SPECIAL SHUTTLE BUS FROM NOTRE DAME LIBRARY TO 100 CENTER 
Mondays thru Fridays. Depart NO at 5:15 Return approx. 9:30 (after 1st show at the Aix) 
DINE AT THE ICE HOUSE 
()et free pass to Boiler House Aix Shopping and Dining 'fun 100 Center Mishawaka 
STA TING SEPT. 29 

1\ 

Why not invite some 
Case of Old Milwaukee Quarts $6.20 
Quart of Canada Dry Vodka $3.99 
Case of Carling Beer Quarts $6.20 
1.15 liters Kamchatka Vodka $7.89 
Special Guests! 

4 LOCATIONS OPEN TILL 11 P.M. 
• Ton & Country Ctldre 
lclilltr at Hickory Rd. Phone 259-3262 
• River Park Li1110r 2411 Mishawaka Awe. 
Phone 289-3868 
• Portae• Party ShOJ 131 Portae• lwnue 
Phone 232-8858 · • 12th St. Li11•r Sttrt 
1753 1211 St.., Mishawaka 
Phone 259-8634 

1. 15 liters Seagram's 7 Crown Blend $9.99 
12-Pack Pabst Blue Ribbon $2.99 
6-Pack Hamms Beer $1.49 

Quart of Mr. & Mrs. T Bloody Mary Mix $ .99 
;::•. I< ~·-·: 

/ 
Friday_,__~e_pte"!~e~-30, ~~~7-______ tb& ObServer 19 
Montana prepared for lrish-MSU confrontation 

OUTH BEND, Ind. AP-"Sure I must remeber that he was coming a senior who last year led the Big starts. Earley isaveraging51.7 per outing. as nervous,'' laughed Joe off the worst injury a quarterback Ten in passing. This year, Smith has completed Smith's prime receivers, Edgar ontana. "But it wasn't because can suffer-a separated shoulder on "Michigan State is a good foot-44 of 92 passes for 626 yards and Wilson and Kirk Gibson, both are 
any pressure I felt. It was his throwing side." ball team with a dangerous passing three touchdowns. However, in averaging more than 20 yards per ecause I hadn't played in two "But I had no reservations at all game and an effective running less than 16 minutes of relief work reception and have combined for ears." about putting him in since he had attack," said Devine, whose Irish so far, Montana has connected on 433 yards through the air. 
Montana, who came off the shown during the week that he dropped form 11th to 14th in The 19 of 26 attempts for 417 yards and "We knew Gibson was an excel­ench and rallied Notre Dame to mastered our game plan." Assosciated Press rankings after three touchdowns. lent receiver because we faced him ictory against Purdue last week, It was nothing new for Montana, beating Purdue 31-24. The game before an expected a year ago," Devine said. "Now, arned his first start for Saturday's a junior, who two years ago led Boilermaker freshman Mark Her sellout crowd of 59,075 will be with the addition of Wilson, Mich­ame against Michigan State. Irish comebacks after his team-mann, tops in passing yardage in Notre Dame's first at home after igan State is doubly dangerous. 
"I'm not surprised that Joe did mates had fallen behind North the nation, riddled the Irish de-three straight on the road. But the player that has really made as well as he did,'' said Irish Coach Carolina and Air Force in the fourth fense for 351 yards and three The Spartan ground attack is led them a well-balanced team is Dan Devine, who named Montana quarter. touchdowns. But Montana sparked by tailback Leroy McGee, who McGee, and that's made it nee­to replace Rusty Lisch against the Calling the shots for the 2-1 a fourth quarter surge in which currently is fifth in the Big Ten in essary for opponents to respect Spartans."He had been showing Spartans, who beat Purdue in the Notre Dame scored 17 points to rushing with an average of 94.3 their running game as well as their improvement each week, and you season-opener, will be Ed Smith, notch its second victory in three yards per game. Fullback Jim passing game." 
NOTICES ~ ~e;~ 4 G.A. tix for MSU game. Call Joe :-~~41n_eed: 3 GA tickets to usc Call C'LAS'~ TDTDD An~~ \
1,-------------------------------------------~ 
I 
I NEED QUALITY TYPING? Executary, I . . . ltJ11 '1.D~ J...J I l ine. Professional Typing Service IBM 1 Two M1ch St. GA t1x for$$ or trade for Please pity me. Missed the last roll call •. Correcting Selectrics .85/page minimum two Navy GA tix. CAll (283) 1014 and for H-come ticket package. Haven't seen Mary(Anny( . Call232-0898 "When you want the Best"· leave message for Marty. HTH in 3 months Need 1 USC ticket or Get psyched! K.F.A. Good Luck Sat. .....~-..-1
~.,r'I,!_Yf.~ ~­----------'-·----never will again! Dave 1158. 'C!N1-l!!.l ''1.,·~~'I Desperately need GA tix to Mich State. Liz & Stephanie, It"'lrnUte 
1 

U. of Mihc. grad. in Russian will tutor PLease call Ruth at 272-3513 morning or Need 2 GA Michigan State tickets Will Welcome back I missed you. ~~! I
Love, ' 

I 
I Russian students. Studied in Leningrad. eve. pay your price CAll Tom. 3693 J. Call 683-4332 or 233-9948 Ask for I Melanie Lewis. Need 4 GAo tickets I'll top all other Wanted: need ONE southern cal ticket Another Announcement: the yougest one I 
offers. Call Brian 272-5843. Will pay$$$ Call 7781 of them all, Dr. Barney Friselli RigatoniI Mattia Esq. Recieves recognition for his 1I Accurate, Fast Typing Mrs. Donoho 
Need ride to Bowling Green weekend of Needed desperately: 2 Michigan State Finesse in enterpreneurmanship. 1232-0746 Hours Sam to 6pm. 
Oct. 8 Call Anne 7835. GA tickets Call Tom 287-3987. 
1 

Announement: South Benders Beware! Need 2 Mich. Tickets lots of Cahs 1129. Need 2 GA or married student tix for Convente, Orlo, and LYnch are Here ! ! II TRACE YOUR ROOTS with "The Family 
MSU Call256-1341.I Tree Kit." All necessary materials inclu-
I 
l 
Need one student ticket to Michigan St. Ed's Hall, ded.Great gift idea. Call Cathy Murray 
game. Will pay$$ Call Lenny 277-2397. Please. I need Michigan State tickets$$. Rose loves y'all 4-5454. 
Call Jay Brandenberger 233-8288. -One who KNOWS I Need 2-6 MSU tickets. Call Dave 8360. Needed 1 student ticket-Michigan State Dear Mary, Karen, Kim, Kathy, Susie, Mindy, Rosemary& Dearest Karen, II Typing Call Carolyn 232-9061. 
·------
Desperately need 3 GA Michigan State Julie 1297. Patty, Meg, Colleen & Sue, We extend to you our warmext invitation I Tix Call 4786. Thank you for making my 20th birthday to attend the Keenan 2-North party on 1I MORRISSEY LOAN FUND Need 1 USC ticket will Pay top price Call so super special! I love you all! Sat. evening. Student Loans $20-$150. 1 day wait. 11/2 desperate: need up to 6 USC tickets-will Jeff at 283-8619 Jenny Love& Kisses, 1 
• pay excellent price call frank 277-2576.
interest. due in 30 days. LaFortune 
2121

I Basement. M-F 11:15-12:15. Need 2 GA tickets for MSU Call Mary CHIMES, the St. Mary's Literary Magaz Need a plethora of Mich. State tix. Call Kay 6892. ine is now acceptin fiction, poetry . art 
Kiity & Byrne-·I and photography. Adress all manuscripts What 'cha gonna do, go complain at city
Steve at 8422. Needed: Five GA tix for USC Call Telana-to : Chimes Rm. 310 Madeleva Hall St. 
hall? It'll all get done! 1I LOST AND FOUND Wanted: Desperately need 6 G.A. tix 4-5745. Mary's College Duedate: December 1st, to any home game. Call Chris at 1158. 1977 All material will be returned. scu I I WILL BE FOREVER INDEBTED TO
I LOST:Student football ticket and Senior Mark-FROM Dubuque-4th StanfOrd II bar card near Senior bar. Reward. Wanted: Deperately need 1student ticket YOU if you sell a pair of GA tickets for Speedy, How -are the minutes going?I Victoria 5-5124. for usc-NO game! Will pay$ Cal 4-4124. the USC game. My parents want to come Congratulations on being Defensive Play­and cheer for old Notre Dame. Will Pay$ er of the Week. Let's celebrate with --~----V-1 Need 4 USC g.a. tix. . Willi $$Call Mary 1313. strawberry dacqueries! Luck this week­Arjmand-II FOUND: on sidewalk 1976 Holy Cross pay$ Call Ron 1423. end. Have a good weekend. Maybe I'll see II preparatory class ring Call Denise 4-5402. you. B.
Desperately need 1 USC ticket Call Ron Your Biggest Fan Wanted: six GA tickets to USC Call Jeanne 3313. at4-4001. Wonder Woman, Pete: I
I 
Wanted: Tix. Hope you're well by yesterday! Anniversary Love WANTED: 4 GA tickets for Southern Cl. Chuck 277-1874.
I 
LOST: one SMC class ring, initials CFH, 5 Michigan State Call Happy ya .• 
78 REWARD 4-5143 Cathy. ________o_a_nc_in_g_B_e_ar. Lynn I Will pay good bucks. Call 1423, ask tor
1-----------------­
LOST: umbrella brown & off-white Call Mike. ANYONE with Mich. St Tix I. need 2 Pudgy, To Mary Heberlein, Jean Mellett, Mark I 1John 1848 (around midnite) GA's fast. Also need 2 Usc· GA's Call Thanks for the personal. But you ate all Hommes, Don McNeill, Fr. Hesburgh, all 
I 
Wanted: 5 USC tickets. Call Paul at 1424. Dave 8589 BIG BUCKS! the oatmeal cookies tis Sandy armed yet? CILA advisors, CILA officers: Thanks for 1I Fig, "tire"less a great weekend your time and effort is would the person who brought back a Wanted: two tickets to Michigan State So. Cal. vs ND football ticket Oct 22 ------------greatly appreciated! I glow in the dark Frisbee frnm the game, either GA or student ticket. Call Sport's Tour 3050 w. 7th Street L.A. Maid Marion's new phone numberI Sophomo~e Class Picnic please return it Mark 1436. Calif. 90005 213-384-1951. Will pay$$.$ is:4695. All prospective Robin Hoods Happy 28th Anniversary, Mom and Dad I I to Hank, 226 Keenan. please caiUr-: appointments. McCormick, May you continue to be I I 
I 
Wanted: 4 USC tickets. Will pay good a--blessed with life's riches. Thanks for LOST: brown leather wallet in Engineer bucks. Call Jim at 1419. FOR SALE H"~oah Georgie Howz yer face. giving me Notre Dame. 1 Aud. need drivers licance and I. D. for HMMMMMMMM* · My love and prayers I F. B. games Please return call 3506. need 2 Southern Cal tix. Beth 272-2340. mint. Gibson Heritage Bitz
4 Sale alto sax 3706
I Need six Southern Cal tix. Mark 287-7051 w/case Best offer for either Ca11288-Sandy, ~!~~;~~et~ the Unpseudo con~~~:~ I 
I 
LOST: Genetics textbook Please Call For Sale: 2 Army tix Call Chris After 6 Happy 21st, community of N.D. Another wild "Dunes 1 289-0175 Need $$$ sell me 2 GA USC tix Call Lynn & Pete. weekend!
291 _1741 _ 
Frank 277-4826. Love, Jan Mare II TOM SOMA* the aspiring gigolo,I WANTED Need 4 GA tix to Michigan State. Call PERSONALS On your 20th birthday, may you kiss who Noe 1, o I 
I I 
Steve 861G you please and please who you kiss and Welcome to N.D. Little SIS! Have agood I THE NAVY GAME Who need tickets for Flipper, have a lovely day besides. time Bubba! the Navy Game? I DO ! ! ! 2 GA tickets. GA's and Student for USC game $ $ $ Repent now---before it's too late · · · Sue, the aspiring tiellydancer Love 1 Call Martha, 1715, 8086. Mick 2743. How Janet I Peggy-We love you. Happy legal day.I NEEDED: 1-4 tix for Army Game. Call D[rty Carpet: Steam Shampoo Cheap ($2 Barb, Sills, Dee. Joe To those coming in from Chicago for their I Need ride to Chesterton. Ind. (on the M11ria 1318. -up) free estimate Jim 8504· first game as Alums ...I tollway about halfway to Chicago) Friday Tomorrow is Tom Soma's birthday. Do Have a blast but remember: 1
I afternoon. Call Vicki 6751. ~~~~~~le~tc:\c!~~a-3~~~-pay premium. Gay Community at N.D. Info-line 8870 Fri something rotten to him. bears are on you I 
-
12
Desperately need 1 USC ticket Call & Sat. 10-p.m. The IEEE Professor of the week: Garabet Mr. and Mrs. B. Cindy, Tina, and Krista, I 14-4101 Wanted: 2-4 GA tickets to Michigan Gariel. In honor of this, we proudly Now that you've made the car trip, you
Gay Community at N.D. Guide to N.D./ h G b G 1 k
State, Navy or Georgia Tech game. Wil I announce t e ara et .Gabriel oo know what 1go through! Enjoy your stay 
1

SB Pandora's or Box 206 ND.$1. 
I 
I USC student or GA tix wan ted. West Pay top$$$ Call Pat, 8377/8378. Alike Contest. Apply at EE office. in sunny (I hope) South Bend. Coast clients will pay premium. 272-7360 Basketball Players need not apply. SAB 1 after 6p.m. Need ride to Bloomington, Ind. IU this I
I weekend. Call Vicki 6751. B.W. St. Ed's Hall Desperatelyneed2ticketsto MichState. The P.K.'S only have a few good years Rose lovesy'all! II Will pay$ Call Meg 4-4046. Pllease ! ! ! Deperately need 2 tix to Michigan State. left. Look at us, we're fading fast!! Happy One who knows Call Mo 4-4001 2oth! 
I

I Desperately need 3 GA tickets for Tech Your better 2/3'a Happy Birthday to a Fantastic R.A.!I game. Bob 8405. Wanted -need 2-4 GA tickets to Navy. Love, THE SECTION PEONS. I Will pay. Teresa 4-4956. .B.D. 
1

I Need tix for any home game. Call Sharon Pace yourself! Remeber: Your prime 1We want acts that wont get the axe 1261. Wanted: need 4 GA or student tickets to ends at 20 HAPPY BIRTHDAY! 1Octobertest "Happy Hour" Gong Show 1 MSU game. Pleasse help Sheil 4-4954. SIGNED* 1at the Library Friday Sept 30 3-6 p.m. I1Need 1 or 2 G.A. for MSU ~all8333. Yes, Tom you can use the phone. 1Call 4-4298 wanted: 1or 2girls to sublet campus view ~-----------­1HELP! Family flying in trum Florida, apt. with Soph transfer student. Call Gail, Hey Bertha H., 11s spelling, typing or just saying "No" I desperately. need 6 l\1ichi~an_ ST. Tix 277-1441. Happy 20th to B.W.'s better half. Iyour problail both G.A. and studetn) C2,n Rick 8694 Farley's Angels T 
,, ..,. WWWW_______________Bii_IIW:W:'~IiBU--..--_. -.----'Jt)J 

Friday, September 30, 1977
·20 the observer 
by Ray O'Brien Sports Writer 

After three long, emotional weeks on the road, the Fighting Irish return to the confines of Notre Dame stadium this Saturday where they will face the Spartans of Michigan State. 
The home opener comes none to soon for the Irish who had their trouble in foreign lands posting two wins inthreeattempts but having to fight back from a losing position after the first half of every game. "It sure will be good being home and playing before our own fans," said a relieved Dan Devine. "I was beginning to think our schedule was made by a nomad." 
As nice as it is to be in one's back yard, the Irish cannot do much relaxing as they face a much improved Michigan State team in a legendary confrontation whose his­tory is nationally reknown. This is the 43rd meeting in a series which hegan in 1897. Notre Dame holds a 25-16-1 advantage. 
The Spartans also come into this game with a 2-1 re.::ord. The common opponent is Purdue who was Michigar States first victim by a 19-14 score. Last week Darryl Roger's squad scored 34 points in the second half against Wyoming to overcome a 16-0 first half deficit. 
Led by senior quarterback Eddie Smith, the Spartans boast an explosive offense. Smith led the Big Ten in passing and total offense in his first season as the number one signal caller. Much of Smith's success is due to Kirk Gibson who was the Big Ten's leading receiver last year. Gibson is a speedster and a dangerous long ball threat with an 82 yard touch­down reception to his credit already this season which was the third 82 yarder of his career. 

However, the leading Spartan receiver this year is a newcomer in Edgar Wilson. Wilson is a new­comer to football but not to Michigan State. This 6-4 198\b. split end spent his first four years in Lansing playing for the Spartan basketball team. 
Leroy McGee, a transfer from Grossmont College, has put some punch in the floundering MSU rushing attack. McGee has rolled up 283 yards from his tailback position. Senior Jim Earley has averaged 5.5 yards a pop from the fullback slot. 
The most potent offensive attack comes in the form of a Danish soccer style kicker named Hans Nielsen. Nielsen has been 4-6 in three-point attempts this season with two coming from 43 and 45 yards out. Last year he scored Michigan State's only points with two field goals in the 24-6 Irish rout 
Ali defeats Shavers; bout goes 15 rounds 
hardly ever missed with his left jabs, especially when he chose to stick and move, took control in the seventh round. 
Judg<!s Eva Shain and Tony Castellano each had it nine rounds to si.x for Ali, wh!le referee Johnny LoBtan.co saw tt 9-5-.1 for the chan:tpton. The .Assoctated Press had tt 10-S for Alt. 
(one came from 48 yards out). 
Michigan State's defense is much improved over last year's but that is probably because there was no place to go but up as the Spartans finished dead last in the Big Ten in effectiveness against the rush. If fumbles are any indication of how hard the defenders are hitting, then Irish quarterbacks better hit the deck early this week as MSU opponents have coughed up the ball 11 times via fumbles. Notre Dame has lost the ball eight times in 12 fumbles, so these turnovers could prove to be a prime factor in the game. 
Mel Land and Larry Bethea have shut down the inside track from their tackle positions. The addition of Kim Rowekamp, an outstanding middle guard who sat out last year with a knee injury, has added authority to the front line. But while the wall against the rush has been solidified, holes have sprang open in the secondary. Spartan foes have been able to complete nearly 58o/oof their passes for an average of 240 yards per game. 
Notre Dame's defense has be­come a bigger question mark than Michigan State's. Pre-season ra­ted as the top defensive squad in the nation, the Irish have looked very vulnerable at times. After giving up 24 first half points to Purdue last week, the defense came alive to completely shutdown the Boilermaker attack. 
The secondary has been excep­tionally questionable giving up nearly 200 yards a game in the air. The backfield will be tested once again this week as Rogers likes to see the ball stay in the air when his team is on offense. On the other hand, the Irish defense has not allowed a rushing touchdown this year and has held the opposition to under 100 yards a game on the ground. The key to stopping Michigan State will be applying a strong pass rush. Purdue quarter­back Mark Hermann was dumped seven times in the Boilermaker's 
.''~~. 

~·~~ 
~ 
a. 
~~*· ;:'/
(·-.·· ·: ·,.. ~ ~­

;~ ~~ 
~ 
..._ .....7111"' 

Jerome Heavens, who was the leading ground gainer for the Irish in 1975, has carried the ball 50 times for 190 yards in Notre Dame's first three games. 
scoreless second half. offense just started to jell last week 
With Willie Fry's ankle still and improvement should be steady weak, Scott Zettek will remain at with a confident quarterback at the tackle where he has done an helm. outstanding job. Randy Harrison Terry Eurick moves into a start­will start at the free safety position ing halfback slot on the basis of his in place of injured Joe Restic and consistent performances. Dave Kevin Muno will handle the punt-Waymer has also moved into a ing duties. starting role at the flanker spot. 
The bigstoryis the resurrection of With neither team settled into a Joe Montana. Montana played the consistent role, this week's game is role of the Irish savior last week unpredictable. Dan Devine knows connecting on 9 of 14 passes while what the Spartan-Irish series en­spearheading Notre Dame's come-tails as he served as an assistant back and earning a starting job in coach there for five years (includ­the process. Montana will most ing a national championship sea­likely be throwing often against the son). Kickoff is scheduled for 1:30 porous Spartan secondary. The EST. 
Paul Stevenson:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:::::::;:;:;:;:;:;:::::;:;:;:;:: 
The Irish Eye 

::=:=::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;::=:=::;:;:;:;::=:=:=:=:=::;:;::===:=::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;::::=:::=:=::;:;:;:;::::=::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;::=:=:=:=::::;:;:;::=::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;::=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:::=:=:::=:=::;:;:;:;::=::;:;:;::=:=::;:;::=: Football Picks 
College football moves into another excitin~ weekend as another slate of to play the Buckeyes this weekend as Ohio State bounces back with a major games is scheduled. The big game thts weekend will be played in victory by 21 points. Pace follows OSU by 42. Ann Arbor, as Michigan hosts Texas A&M. In South Bend, the Irish Florida at Louisiana State: It's tough to play in Baton Rouge. The Irish entertain Michigan State in their home opener. Many feel that last week's found this to be true back in 1971. Florida has a dynamite football team fourth quarter performance by the Irish indicates that they are finally on that's coming off an impressive win over Mississippi State. LSU fell to the the move. Gators last season by a 28-23 mark. No doubt they'd like to chan~e that 
Tomorrow's contests should prove to be just as spectacular as last score around. Florida is ~oing to have to play top-notch football tf they 
week's game in Columbus or Notre Dame's come-from-behind win over Purdue. So, with the assistance of Tony Pace, here are the Irish Eye's' picks for tomorrow's gridiron action. Michigan State at Notre Dame: The last time the Spartans entered Notre Dame Stadium they upset the Irish, 10-3, in a very physical contest. That loss marked the first for Dan Devine as Irish mentor. Last year in East Lansing, the Irish held State without a touchdown en route to a 24-6 victory. Although the Irish have been plagued with injuries over the last couple of weeks, Notre Dame should be superior enough to dominate the battle. So, with the Monongahela Minuteman starting the number-one slot for the first time in two years, Notre Dame should register their first sound win of the 1977 season. Thus, give the battle to the Irish by 16. Pace follows Notre Dame by 14 points. Georgia at Alabama: The Tide, although dropping this tilt to the Bulldogs by a 21-0 mark last season, should be ready to seek revenge for that showing. Both teams were upset two weeks ago. Georgia by Clemson and Alabama by Nebraska. This is a must game for both teams, but this one will go to 'Barna by 12. Pace backs the Crimson Tide by 17. Texas A&M at Michigan: The Wolverines have struggled the past two Saturdays over Duke and Navy, respectively. Meanwhile the Aggies have faced some rigid competition and have proven themselves to be a team to watch. The contest is in Ann Arbor, giving Michigan an edge. Also, the Wolverines have a lot to prove, having slipped into third in the wire service polls. Another thing in Michigan's favor is that Texas A&M is coming off a big win over Texas Tech. Can the Aggies get that psyched for back to back football weekends? The outcome will be decided tomorrow afternoon. For now, give the matchup to the Aggies by 2. Pace goes with A&M by a Tony Franklin field goal. Washin~ton State at Southern Cal: This would be a great time for the Throwin Samoan, Jack Thompson, to lead his team for an upset. The Cougars record stands at 2-1, after dropping their battle with Kansas last Saturday. Last weekend, the Trojans demolished the Horned Frogs of TCU, 51-0. Thompson should give the Trojans quite a contest in the air, but USC will be coming to South Bend in three weeks undefeated, so they will win this outing by 10. Pace backs the Trojans by 31. Kentucky at Penn State: The Wildcats have a tough ballclub, but Joe Paterno's group is just as superior. The Nittany Lions have looked impressive in their three previous contests, downing Rutgers, Houston and Marxland. This will be the third straight home contest for the Lions, which wtll help in their quest for victory. Eventually, there has to be a downfall in the Penn State team. After three big wins, the Lions will probably be at an emotional low, but will still be strong enough to down the Wildcats by 7. Pace backs Penn State by'17. 
expect to beat the Ti~ers m their home den. However, LSU will be ready to take on Florida, thts being their first big game of the season. So, give the contest to the Tigers by 3. Pace follows Florida by 3. Indiana at Nebraska: After losing their opener to Washington State, the Cornhuskers seem to be on the move. Meanwhile without Mike Harkrader, the Hoosiers are not moving at all. Nebraska should be able to roll up a score in front of their home town fans, as they capture this matchup by 28. Pace backs the Cornhuskers by 45. Princeton at Brown: The Bears have a respectable football team this year and are trying to repeat last year's performance, accept for one thing. Brown wants solo possession of the Ivy League Crown. However, the Bulldogs downed Brown in their opener two weeks ago. So, it's going to be an uphill climb for the Bears, and Princeton will not get in the way. Give thts battle to the Bears by 7. Pace f<>llows Brown by 10. Wake Forest at Purdue: Well, Mark Herrmann showed Notre Dame fans that all the talk about him was true. The freshman phenom can really rifle a football. The Deacons will have to stop Herrmann from throwing the ball if they expect to come out un top. Notre Dame started getting to Herrmann in the second and third periods, to prevent the Boifermakers from scoring any second half points. The Deacons will have to do the same if they expect to keep the battle close. But, give the ~arne to the Boilermakers by 14. as they turn the game into another aerial ctrcus. Pace goes with Purdue by 14. Pittsburgh at Boston College: The Panthers defeated, or should one say demolished, Temple 76-0 last Saturday. Pitt's offense cannot be that good. Nothing against Temple, but that's not much of a defensive performance. The Eagles record s*"nds at 2-1, identical to that of the Panthers. Pittsburgh should emerge victorious in this confrontation, but not by as murh as last week's clasn with the Owls. So, give the matchup to Pitt by 21. Pace eyes the Panthers by 21. Iowa at UCLA: This has not been a very productive season for Terry Donohue and his Bruins. UCLA's record stands at 1-2, losing their opener to Houston, downing Kansas in their second ~arne and falling to Minnesota last Saturday. This game should help brmg UCLA's ledger to the 500 mark as the Bruins capture this clash by 10. Pace backs UCLA by 28. ypset of the Week: Kansas at Oklahoma: The Jayhawks could make their season, and maybe the next ten, if they could pull off this one. The Sooners may even sue Sports Illustrated for putting them on this week's cover. Kansas dropped last year's contest to Oklahoma, 28-10. The Sooners are bound to have a letdown after their 29-28 triumph over the Buckeyes. If Oklahoma fumbles as much as they have been so far this season, the Jayhawks have 
-
I • 
NEW YORK [API • Muhammad Ali's ring experience and the boxing brains of cornerman Angelo Dundee combined last night to give the heavyweight champion a unani­mous but tough IS-round victory over Earnie Shavers. 
Ali used his left hand to jab and hook, plus his defensive ability, to hold the power-punching Shavers safely at bay through most of the fight while his corner knew exactly what was going on. 
Dundee knew after 12 rounds that Ali would remain champion unless Shavers knocked him out. 
The official scoring was an­nounced on national television after each round. While the people in Madison Square Garden including Shavers in his corner did not know how the fight was going, Dundee did. 
"I knew about the scoring," he said. "1 had a shuttle who was 
watching the television.  I  never  
told Ali he  was  ahead.  I didn't  
want him to let down."  

Meanwhile, Shavers was given the impression by his comer that he was winning. "I thought I was ahead -on points -I thought I won the fight," said Shavers, who was told by trainer Frank Luca after almost every round that he was winning. 
However, Shavers didn't fight the last three rounds like a man who thought he was ahead as he shook off numbing tiredness to put pressure on the aging Ali. If he had known how the scoring was going, he might have gone all out a little sooner. 
Ali, looking at times like the dancing master of old and at other times a weary old champion, used left jabs and left hooks to retain his world heavyweight championship. 
Ali was showing every one of his 35 years at the end, but he also showed his tremendous courage when, after being sent across the ring by a smashing right in the final round, he came back with a flurry of head punches that almost put Shavers down. 
The fight was close through the first six rounds and then Ali, who 
Authors present 
Tom Pagna and Bob Best co-· authors of the book En of An.• will· be autographing copies of their 
k th d fl f th Ohio State at Southern Methodist: Woody Hayes is still steaming from last a chance. So give this matchup to Kansas by 3. Pace goes with Oklahoma 
~or 0~ e ~co: 00~ 0 1~ , week's 29-28 Buckeye loss to Oklahoma. Although the game was exciting, by 14. _ , , ••• , •• _ v 0!~\~·~;..M ??.~t,~,, .om•••• l Jt<J}!f<li.~Qlt<;Q tfta;t,Q.e wpuld have rather it been boring and have Ohio State Last Wt'e!l; Nin~ cpn:ec~ an.d thre.e wr1,mg fo~ 75 percent. <;Juest.picker,~·!•:•~·~·W;•:··~~.'\+~··..-:~..~.P.:.-.nt•:·~~~i\+)r{:~···~l'!W~ JiMt:.!t}lt~e is m~er ~nd although .OSV. waats .t;evenge.t:• • ..R~y. <>'Btitt~ ~n pgp~ an.<\-~ incorrect for 83 percent. ,,. 
~.~..•..•..i.'.'..~..•~'•l• .,, .~.•·-5·6:. ..•~+-~.+•"•':.."•'·'<.•..•.~:}..tne;,O h~JQ~it1olu.t 011 the Mustan~ li:S unfortunate. that.SMU. has •• Ovei:aJl:. Thirty-one.nghf ancl.etght .wrong for 80 percent. 








